- - '• CXV No.2 Schenectady, New York Bulk Rate U.S. Postage 'faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y\' 12308 .October 3, 1985 Forum To Finance Shells crew Club President, John Ciovacco '87 is pleased with Student Forum's vote to allocate funds for two new shells. ' ByJANBARAN News Editor At the first meeting of the Student Forwn for the 1985-1986 School year, the Forum passed a motion which enables the Forum to finance two shells (boats) over a three-year- period. Purchased for the Crew Club 1 these shells will cost approximately $13,000. The financing· of these shells will be broken down into three parts. The deposit due with the order of the shells ( ap- proximately $4,000) will be covered by the Crew Club's Career Fest Planned representatives from breadly By SERGIO RAMEF.lZZQ'l\l'L.\ _ ,dive~~ified_fields will be on ll.and · Have you t:v-er posed the question-what does my future have in store for me? If you have, there is one event which can help you answer it-'-The Career Festival. On Wed- nesday, October 9 Union College and the Hudson-Mohawk Association of Colleges and Universities will be sponsoring the 7th Annual Career Festival at the Union College fieldhouse. This day affair (11:00 A.M.-4:30 P.M.) will have an informal-like air, and will be more in- formational than was originally expected. From service and government organizations to local and national business, to discuss career opportunitie~ l.n their organizations. Over thirty participants will attend including members of the Armed Forces, IBM, First Jersey Securities and the FBI. These representatives will be beneficial in helping students to assess their alternatives and potential prospects. But that's not all. The festival provides a chance to meet local people who represent a variety of career fields and are willing to discus_s their experiences with in- terested students. By con- versing with these partiCipants, one can gain the invaluable insight tbat only these in- dividuals may provide. If one is seriously considering career possibilities with one or more of the areas represented by these participants, he or she should pick up lists of the ex- pected participants and career fields to be discussed. These lists can be picked up at any time between 8:3G-5:00, Monday through Friday, at the Career Development Center 'on cam- pus. The festival is a valuable asset which can only help put students academic careers into perspective. Therefore, be you young or old, students are en- couraged to see what lies ahead. For further details con- cerning the Career Festival, one may contact Peter Trolio, the Career Festival coor- dinator, at 370-6176. IFood Service Looks Ahead I By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff According to Janet Gray, Director of Food Services, the construction on the Hale House ldtchen should be completed by mid-October, 1985. At this time, an open house will be held so that members of the College community can view the new facilities. When completed, the ~ale House kitchen will be used to cook meals for Hale, Old Chapel, and for departmental receptions for visitors and speakers. Old Chapel, which will be utilized as an Up- perclassman dining hall for approximately the next year and a half, will start serving dinner to upperclassmen following the opening of the Hale House kitchen. Old Chapel is presently open only for lunch Monday-Friday; dinner service was temporarily discontinued due to low participation by those upperclassmen on the meal plan. However, it is ex .. pected that attendance at dinner will rise after the opening of the new kitchen. Gray stated-that if participation is high, · Sunday ·brunch, and, dinners could be served at Old Chapel. Gray observed that since Carnegie will be closed for at least one year, students now have no gathering place. She commented, ''We want to provide a center where students can meet in the interim and provide as many activities as we can.\ Some activities planned for 'this term include Coffeehouse, a display of student talent on Friday, October 4 in Old Chapel, and a dance to be held on November 2 in Old Chapel for all students, in cooperation with the Concert Committee and Social Com- mittee. Still in the planning stages is a dinner-dance to be held in Hale House on February 14, during Winter Carnival weekend. Many students have noticed changes that have taken place at the Rathskellar. Pitchers of beer are no longer sold, Gray explained, since the management was having some difficulty enforcing the drinking age when pitchers were in- volved. She stated tbat if the State Liquor Authority found underaged drinking ·at any , t4me, the -Skellar- would lose its liquor license. Gray declared, ''It's unfortunate-we don't want to be the enforcers, but we are asking students to be responsible about it and obey the law.\ Gray added that when the Skellar reaches its maximum capacity of 120 people, the overflow will be able to go up to Old Chapel to listen to music, etc. The Hale House Dining Hall (formerly the Dutch Hollow Pub) is now open for cash business. Hours are as follows: Breakfast-7:30-11:00 AM; Lunch-11:30-4:30 PM; Din- ner-5:00-7:00 PM. All faculty, staff, and students are welcome to stop by. The Rock-N-Roll Pizza and Sub Shop, (Phone 370-UOOO) now located at the south end of first floor in West College; has also opened. It specializes in pizza, subs, sandwiches, and other study munchies. Gray expressed interest in restarting the Meal Planning Committee, and sald that student suggestions for recipes and menus are always welcome. She concluded, ''The students have been wonderful about everything, considering the disruption of the campus., present budget. A fee of $2,500 will be due when the shells are picked up. Presently, this money will be financed by the Student Forum from the student activities loan contingency fund. The Crew club will pay this amount back to the Student Forum with monies. obtained from fundraising and private donations. The third portion of the payment needed for the boats (approximately $6,500) will be financed over a three- year-period with this year's payments coming from the Crew Club. The next two years' payments will be included in the Crew Club's budget. This motion by the Forum is considered significant because it breaks with precedent in two key areas. This is the first time, for example, that the Forum has ever planned to flmd beyond tlle upcoming year: The $6,500 to be paid in monthly in- stallments commits the Forum to budget that money for two future budgets. This action has never been taken before by the Forum. In addition, this will be the first time that the Finance Committee will act as a bank by giving this \loan\ to a student activity as written into the club budget. These budgets, com- pleted in the spring, determine the finances for the upcoming year. The Crew Club was not budgeted for these two shells since the opportunity for pur- chasing these shells at this price arose over the swmner. · One of the factors in the Forum's decision appears to be the club's esteem among Union students. Currently, the club boasts a membership of sixty to seventy members with daily practices. The poor state of the Crew Club's current equipment was also noted as a factor in the Forwn's decision. They are also a competitive sport and will be representing the school. The passage of this motion does produce its share of problems for the Student Forum. First of all, the Forum can be held liable if anything should go wrong in the next three years. Hence, the Forwn considered the club's strong membership roster so that it could have an idea whether the club will still be active in three years. The forum also examined the . pr_evious_ fundraising activities of the Crew Club to ensure that the club could pay the loans back to the Forum. President of the Student Forum, Chris Siler, was also cognizant of the problems that could be created by this one Forum decision. As she stated, \I think the Crew Club deserves the boats, but it sets a dangerous precedent. I don't think that they were fair to put the College's reputation on the line by making any kind of commitment.'' The Vice President of Finance, Beth Bernell, was also worried about the precedent established by this decision. As Bernell declared, \I'm happy Continued on page 3 Delayed, bot near completion, Hale House is due to resume ser· vices in October. Coach Magee Celebrates 1 OOth Soccer win -See page 19- \Noises OH\ Reviewed -See page 14-

Pl\ge2 CONCORDIENSJS, Octoher3, 1985 An exchange program with the Kansai Gaidai Universi·ty will be available next year. Study in Japan ... Exchange Offered The first student exchange between Union £ollege and Kansai University of Foreign Studies (Kansai Gaidai) in Osaka, Japan will ·be inaugurated in 1986-87. Under the program one student from Union will spend the academic year at Kansai Gaidai and one student from Kansai Gaidai will come to Union .. The exchange program wiU be administered separately from the existing Term Abt:_oad in Japan in which fifteen Union students each year study at Kansai Gaidai · during the fall tenn. The cost of the program will be about the same as a year on campus at Union and all scholarships held by students will apply. . The exchange student from Union will live with a Japanese faunily and study both spoken Japanese and the reading and writing of Japanese as part of his or her academic load. In addition, he or she will have the opportunity to take a number of courses on Japan and East Asia taught in English. Some of these courses include: \Modern Japanese Politics,\ \Japanese Economic Development,\ \Japanese Style Management,'' ':Modern Japanese History,\ \China and Japan: Aspects of East Asian Civilization,\ \Modern Japanese Literature,\ and \Survey of Japanese Art.\ The exchange student from Japan will be housed in a dormitory at Union with students who have either been to Japan on the Term Abroad or have shown an interest in Japan and indicated a desire to have a Japanese roommate. The Japanese student will be a major in American Studies and will have survived a rigorouS selection process. It is hoped the presence of such a student at Union each year will help to make Union a little more in- ternationally oriented than it is. - Students who are interested in applying for the Student Exchange Program to Japan should contact either Professor.- Thomas 211D, or Professor Thurston, Social Sciences 213B. Job market fakes a downturn • • • '85 Grads Disa.ppointed (CPS)-The job market for 1985 college grads;..which many experts hoped would boom this year-''remains better than last year, but falls far short of some of our earlier predictions,'' the College Placement Council's ( CPC) annual year-end Salary Survey has found. The unexpected downturn .... especially for some high tech majors--also has convinced some experts that colleges aren't doing. enough to guide. students through changing demands in tt,le job market. Last spring college placement officials predicted 1985 would be a banner year for new grads looking for their first jobs, breaking the' market out of a decade-long slump. Instead, 1965 has been \an indifferent year,\ says Judith Kayser, CPC's manager .of statistical services. She. blames the nation's \listless\ economy. \This probably was a carry over from the recession,\ she speculates. \So many em- ployers were adversely affected (by the 1980 recession), and the scars haven't healed. Despite the economic expansion in the last two and one-half years, we haven't been able to shake the cautious attitude.\ Overall, companies made 44,479 job offers to new grads this year, up from 42,393 offers in 1984. ' Starting salaries rose an average of three to five percent above last year's level, the CPC reports. But some recently ''hot\ business and computer science degrees didn't attract many offers, the survey shows. Computer science majors, who for the past few years have enjoyed abundant job offers and top starting salaries, did only marginally better than their predecessors of 1984. . \From all ene reads, com- puter science is the place to be,'' Kayser admits. \But in our survey one of the biggest surprises was the lack of movement in this category,\ she notes. \There were only a handful more offers than last year-3,796, up from 3,773 in 1984-and a 1.8 percent increase in average .salary. And most of that was eeked out at the end of the year.\ Engineering majors also are enduring a less-than-robust job market. Petroleum engineering ,grads continued to attract the highest average salary, $30,996. Chemical engineers were the next most prosperou§ group, getting average offers of $28,428, followed by electrical engineers, who averaged $27,396. But the increases generally didn't keep up with the inflation rate. Engineers also showed disappointing three-to-five percent gains in the number of job offers they got. Accounting and marketing majors got more,pffers and four to 16 percent salary increases. General business majors, however, drew 14 percent fewer offers and only five percent salary increases. Masters of business ad- ministration grads had the worst spring of all: 20 percent fewer job ,offers and flat star- ting salaries. The abrupt cooling ofthe hot majors has alarmed some observers, who fret colleges and placement experts are more interested in offering popular degrees than marketable ones. ''Students in high school hear that jobs are good in ,particular areas, such as computer science, and they flock into college5 to get degrees in those disciplines,'' explains Henry Levin, a Stanford sociologist and job market expert. ''But soon this bulge of majors fills the demand, and the market tapers back off. Then you're left with hordes of students who jumped. on the bandwagon too late,. and exit into a gl11tted field,\ he says. Colleges should do more to warn students of the changes, Levin contends. ''It's not all that difficult to project, because there's typically a seven-to-nine year cycle between when a discipline is in demand and when it reaches its fruition,\ he says. Liberal arts majors, recently thought to have the worst job prospects · of anyone, enjoyed the mo&t iinproved job market this year, getting four-to-seven percent increases in p~y and job offers. \There seems to be a re- evaluation of the liberal ·arts (graduate),\ says the CPC's Kayser. \These students have analytical and communications skills, and are able to see the big picture. Employers are recognizing this.'' ''In fact, anyone who can combine a technical discipline with a liberal arts background is the marketable graduate of the future,\ Stanford's Levin suggests. \That way you .come out with the ability to read and write and communicate . clearly-which are always good skills to have- and you can apply that to your particular tec_hnical area.\ CAMPUS NEWS BRIEFS· YMCA Available The Intramural-Recreation Department at Union would like to notify all full~time students, faculty an!l staff that the Schenectady YMCA is available for their use. The YMCA will provide each full-time student and employee with general membership privileges. To change your membership to include Nautilus, Health Club, or Family privileges you would have to pay the difference between the general mem~ bership fee and the fee of the upgraded membership. Anyone interested in upgrading their membership should contact Peter Pink at the YMCA or call him at 374-9136. You must show your validated Union College I.D. to be admitted to the YMCA facilities. The general mem- bership privileges will be available through June 27, 1986. Health Lecture \The Health Care Industry from the Vantage Point of the For-Profit Sector\ Will be the topic addressed by Dr. Michael Blase of the University Heights Nursing Home today, October 3. The lecture constitutes part of a colloquium hosted by the Union College Institute of Ad m ·i n i s t r a t i on a n d Management, which will be held on Thursdays from 3:45 to 5 p.m. in Bailey Hall. The presentations by members of the business community and university faculty will address topics of general interest to present and future business leaders. The colloquium is open to the business community as well as students and faculty of the universities. For more in- formation call Dr. Donald F. Arnold, Chairman of Ph.D Program at 370-6302. Union, Awarded Grants The General Electric Foundation has awarded Union College two grants totalling $85,000, for programs during the next two years. 'l'he General Electric Expanded Horizons. Program will again be funded by a $72,000 grant. The program was begun in 1984 to encourage science and engineering students to seek graduate-level education and to pursue teaching careers at colleges and universities. According to the program's director, Union Chemistry Professor Charles Scaife, \Science and engineering faculty ranks are being depleted in response to the corporate community's demand for trained scientists and engineers and its willingness tc pay premium salaries to get them. · Who · win •teach · the · scientists and engineers needed to increase the nation's • productivity and to keep the United States competitive in world markets if the traditional paths to teaching are aban- doned by our best and brightest students? Getting more bright students to enter graduate school, to pursue scholarly research, and to enter the teaching profession is a vital national concern.\ Under the program, juniors majoring in science or engineering are selected to spend the summer doing special research projects in university laboratories. Students receive a $2,500 summer stipend, as well as travel funds. They work in advance with faculty members at universities to design a research program, and then spend the swnmer working on the project. Follow-up is provided gy faculty at Union during the students' senior ye~r. During the summer of 1985, six juniors worked on projects at the University of New Hampshire, State University of New York at Albany, Ren- sselaer Polytechnic Institute, and the University of Penn· sylvania. \Union is meeting the challenge by introducing our students to the excitement of state-of-the-art science and engineering research at an early but appropriate moment in their undergraduate careers,'' Scaife said. ''Through this effort Union College hopes to expand the horizons of our students and to attract, more able studentsto graduate school and eventUally to scholarly research.'' Comments by those who have participated in the program indicate that the introduction to graduate work provided during the summer months gave them positive attitudes toward the prospect of graduate school. Students found the work more rewa·rding and less intimidating than they had expected·. The second GE grant, in the amount of $13,000, was awarded to the Economics Department. It marks a renewal of previous grants provided to support the department's activities. Preprofessionalism Tuesday, October 8, Anna Harrison of Mt. Holyoke College will present a. lecture entitled \Education for Participation in a Scientific and Technological Society\ at 3: 30 · p.m. in the Music Room of the library. The lecture will precede the We~esday, Octob~r 9, M.inerva Sertes, a panel discusston . on \Preprofessionalism.\ The second such discussion on the College curriculum, the panel discussion will begin at 11: 90 a.m. on Wednesday, and refreshments will follow. Panelists · include Andrew George, '86, and David Travel to Boston The Union University :rravelin~~lub at l!nion College IS orgamzmg a tr1p to Quincy Market in Boston. It is open to any student, alumni, faculty or staff member of Union University. The Boston trip is scheduled for October 19 and round trip tickets are $13. According to Paul P. Jesep, the club president, ''The Organization was established not only to sponsor trips, but to promote an awareness among Union College students that they are indeed part of Union University. Many students here don't realize that they are part of Union · University.\ Established in 1873, Union University includes Union College, Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Dudley Observatory, and Albany College of Pharmacy. \It is the hope of the current officers and members of this organization that a stronger bond will be created among the st~dents of th~ University/' satd Jesep. By planning trips open to the entire Uhiversity, the club intends to bring students and alumni of the various schools together. Beal, '86, and faculty mem- The cluhanticipates that trips hers Bruce Reynolds, to New York City and Montreal Economics: .Robert Baker, will be made in 1900. The P~ilosophy; Peter T?biessen, deadline for the Boston trip is . Biology;. Ed~ard Cratg, Dean October 10. Anyone interested of. Engmeer.~:ng;, ,and. Mark .•. sho.uld sig:n. up with .Mrs .. Marra . Tober, Classics. in Old Chapel. ' l; ' i ' ! i ,, I I I , \' I I .~ ,, ' ' I II ,, .. .. \ ..

.. ., \ CONCO,RDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 · Page3 Fuentes Speaks at Union ByGREGFAY · . Staff between the United States and precedented,. and literature Although the rain came down Latin America. ''We · cannot heightens this recognition. Both hard upon Memorial Chapel last impose our vision of the world worlds have suffered violence; Friday .afternoon, September on you, nor you on us.\ both suffer the nuclear threat. '1:1, a large crowd nearly filled Implying that this would be He finally warned his audience all the ground~level pews to ludicrous, he asked the not to lose the past for the hear internationally acclaimed humorous question, \How can novelties of the present, the Mexican novelist Carlos we transform Moctezuma into typically American attitude Fuentes speak on \Latin an Albany Democrat?\ This nor to lose i~self in the past, ~ American Literature and the question points to a much more problem w1th which Latin Two Cultures.\ serious difference between the America struggles. Fuentes dynamically spoke of United States and Latin the seemingly insurmountable America. While the American differences between the United views time as following a strict States and Latin America. ''The linear progression, and equates three-thousand mile border prpgress with success, the between Mexico and the United traditional Latin American States ... is the border between view encompasses the present, the United States artd all of past, and future. Latin Latin America ... It is the only Americans are much more border between the in- aware of their past than dustrialized and developing Americans are of theirs. In fact, worlds.'' . ~ne might say that the past lives But after_ his formidable list of m the present in Latin America. Carlos Fuentes' visit inaugurated a series of three courses at Union, partially supported by a grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities. The theme of these courses is \The United States and the Spanish-Speaking World.\ Other speakers for this program are planned for this y.ear. Last Friday, Carlos Fuentes lectured on \Latin America Literature and the Two Cultures.\ ' differences, Fuentes offered But Fuentes pointed out that some hope. ''Our faces see the West, as represented by the themselves across this frontier . United States, does share a .. which then becomes- the in- common cultural heritage with Stress Hits Freshmen terior frontier each one of us Latin America; it has always has within him or herself.'' He been there. The West, though, noted that: ''This is the living has put Latin America in a frontier that can be nourished . . s u b-o r d i n a t e p o s it i o n , above. all by the knowledge ... \ arrogantly failing to recognize or ''starved by suspicion, ghost this shared hevitage, which goes stories, arrogance, ignorance, back to before the Renaissance. scorn ... \ Today, asserted Fuentes, Fuentes argued continuously Latin America and the United that tolerance would most ef- States are recognizing each fectively bridge the differences other to a degree un- Funding Approved Continued from page 1 that the Crew Club will be purchasing the shells because it is such an enthusiastic group and is in need of the equipment. However, as the Vice President of Finance, I also have to acknowledge that a dangerous precedent has been set in that the Finance· Committee will be acting like a \bank\ by loaning the Crew Club money and that we are committing money for the next two years' budgets.\ John Ciovacco, '87, President of the Crew Club, is pleased with the Forum's vote, \because now our women's program has a good boat to row in. It's very important that we update our present equipment because in the past two years it has greatly curtailed our ability to compete effectively.\ Ciovacco, continued, \I consider the funds allocated for this year's team tremendous, enabling us to purchase •a new shell trailer,· a dock, and to pay the rent for a boathouse. These very important purchases combined with the approval for financing over the next three years will greatly enhance the team's already strong poten- tial.\ The Student Forum '85-86 Minutes Meeting: No. 1. Monday, September 23, 1985 Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bernell, S. Moss K. Keaveney A. George, J. ~oun.tain, P. ~ernich, R. Gross, M. Coleman, s: Ference, T. Dimmick, S. Lipsky, M. Bradley, K. Siegel, R. Allen, A_· Carrel, G. Bolster, D. Cohen ~ommittee Reports: · 1.. Steve M9ss ~av_e a report on the COC. They have recently rece1ved a constitution from the newly•formed Union College G~spel Ensemble, which they will be considering in the future. Also, the COC is forming executive boards according to the by- laws passed last year, for the Speaker's Forum .Social Committee, Concert Committee and FilmCommittee. ' 2. Beth Bernell reported for the Finance Committee. -The committee is currently working to .compensate. for the loss of last year's budgets for this year, which occurred with the summer moving. -:A l?roposal for the crew team was pre~ented and ~assed, which 1S mcluded on a separate sheet, With these mmutes. Members of the committee voiced concern with the measures that the crew club took-ordering the desired boats over the summer in anticipation of getting the funding this fall, which puts the college's reputation on the line. Some members were also concerned about setting precedence by agreeing to fund something over a period of time and thus placing a· burden on future finance committees. However, the feeling that the crew team deserves the equipment and overrides these concerns is eVident in the fact that the proposal passed easily. 3. Maureen Coleman reported for the SAC. The committee discussed the two new committees being fonned, their functions and compositions: the Alcohol Awareness Committee to review changes in policy in light of the upcoming change in the drinking age, and the Residence Life Committee which will examine problems in housing. These committees will be making reports to the SAC. New Business: 4. Chris took sign-ups for the Student Expo to be held on Thur:;~day, and also mentioned having conditional office hours for all members. 5. Steve Moss reminded the Forum about the importance of the Core Curriculum vs. Distributive Learning discussions, which will take place in three panels. All Forum members are encourcaged to attend. ' ' . ·. '. ~ ~ . - . (CPS) - Students entering school this fall will encounter stresses they've never dealt with before, and will probably endure regular \academic calendar of stress\ periods before they finish college, a new University of Utah study reveals. \Students are away from home, many for the first time, and dealing with pressures and responsibilities they've never had before,\ explains study co- author Neal Whitman, a researcher with the university's Department of Family Plan- ning. At the same time, though, students experience less serious stress because they have greater control over their lives than their non-student peers in the real world, according to the summary study of over 150 major stress reports. \Stress is directly related to how much control you have over your life,\ says Whitman, \and let's face it, a college student has a lot of control. Going to college itself is a matter of choice. You control your use of time, decide what classes to take and how to study.\ Still, college has plenty of pressures and stresses, many of which affect students at certain times and places in their educations. Last spring, a Michigan State study reported that students- like their counterparts with full time jobs-often become frustrated, apathetic, and burned-out. Law and medicine students, with more intense schedules and greater focus on jobs, tend to feel more pressures than liberal arts majors, the Utah study says. A recent Louisiana State study showed that medical school often proves \hazardous to the health of many students\ who are unable to handle the stresses and pressures that come with the degree. \The job market is the most significant trigger of stress for students,\ says Whitman, \particularly for exiting and professional students. And we have also found that there is an 'academic calendar of stress' that typically applies to students during college.\ Such stressful periods include '.'arrival and moving into dorms, midsemester and midterm blues, Thanksgiving and Christmas vacations, the winter doldrums, and spring fever,\ the study shows. \Those are all very identifiable and predictable times of students stress,\ agrees Peggy Ba1~, vice chancellor for student affairs at Texas Christian University and former president of the American Personnel and Guidance Association's College Coun- seling Division. \All of us on· college-cam- puses are very familiar with those patterns, and try to do as much as we can to help students deal with them,\ she adds. Stressed-out students do things like \rush through exams, arrive late to class, and turn in hastily written research papers\ because they .have lost control and direction of their educations, researcher Whit- man says. ''Irregular breathing, clammy hands, heavy per- spiring, and an accelerated heartbeat\ are some of the warning signals of excessive stress, he adds. One of the best ways for students to cope with college stress is by organizing and planning their time, the Utah study suggests. \Do a little planning, get organized, and take time to think about what you are doing,'' Whitman recommends. Students should also eat, exercise, sleep properly, and take time to talk with family, friends, and peers about the stresses they feel. \And get involved in helping other students,\ Shitman suggests. \It's a real irony, but · the students doing the helping- whether it's tutoring, crisis counseling, or participating in group sessions-get the best help themselves because they see that stresses can be managed.\ A group of Yale students last year even formed their own \Stress Busters\ to help students relax and unwind during finals. And Boston University researchers recently reported that students can have clearer complexions if they learn to relax and control stress, which they say causes the body to over-produce acne-related hormones. SATURDAY, OCTOBERS 9:00P.M. ' Octoberfest • , ' ... • ' ' • \.' f' • • Phi Delta & Delta Gamma at Phi Delta. on the 50 Yard Line *Imported Beer* *Rum & Cider* If) ftl E 0 J:: 1- Q) £ ftl '- '- 0 ...J :.. .c 0 .,_ 0 J:: c.

f. . ' Page 4 . C.ONCORDIENSI$., October 3, 198$ Preprofessionalism: ·Topic of Next Panel Memo to the Campus: From the Subcouncil on the Curriculum (Cooper,· Moss, Rudko, Sorum, Thurston, Zwicker) What is Preprofessionalism? Disagreement over the meaning of ''pre- professionalism\ is so .great that the tenn can refer to a problem for some and a virtue for others. The different definitions which follow are based on presumptions, not always explicit, which we do not necessarily all share. At · Union, \prepro- fessionalism\ means that students enter with a professional career in mind- medical school, law school, business or engineering-and design their college curricula accordingly. If one believes that there has been a widespread and increasing loss of respect for education and for true learning in our S()ciety, and that this respect has been replaced by an unwarranted regard for training and for that which is seen to be immediately \useful then the term refers to a sea-change in student at- titudes which threatens to overwhelm the traditional values of our college. If it is true that our students increasingly view their education solely as a meal ticket (or a union card), what effect does this have on the campus? Some observer~ say that preprofessionalism is partly to blame for the lack of intellectual life outside the classroom, and that it has had a regrettable influence on faculty decisions both about which courses to offer and about what type of.JDaterial to stress within a course. A more subtle and perhaps more dangerous effect may be to change the way faculty teach and evaluate. For example, Peter Hilton, a mathematician writing in the newsletter of the Mathematical Association of America, believes that the trend towards placement of emphasis on the acquisition of \ephemeral skills through the agency of memory and not understanding\ is \reinforced by a system of tests, judiciously administered sufficiently close in time to the acquisition of the skill for the memory to function reasonably and permit a socially ac- ceptable success rate. These tests in turn become for the student the purpose of the training since advancement and, ultimately, career prospects are based on them.\ If we as faculty go too far in accommodating outselvesto the present-day nature of student motivation, we are in danger of effacing our own values and enthusiasms to the extent that we deprive our students of what might otherwise be the most profound aspect of their education. To others the ideas above seem self-serving, elitist, reactionary, and blind to reality. They asy that there is nothing to be ashamed of in responding to real changes in society's ex:pectations by making the teaching of future professionals more central to our mi~sion and self-image as a college-in fact, this may ac- complish a rediscovery of Union's nots. Union's preprofessional students are, after all, its strongest students, not only in their major courses, but also often in liberal arts courses. Union is ex- traordinarily good at preparing its students for engineering and for the professional schools. It does not make much sense to sC;ly that our greatest strength · as an institution is a weakness. \Preprofessionalism\ z:~fers, then, to trends in career choices, or to trends in at- titudes, expectations, and motivations of society and of our students, or to Union's more-or-less-deliberate acc- ommodations to such trends, or to more subtle shifts. in our own values and strategies which are consequences of such ac- commodations, or· to students and programs which are among the strongest at the college. Some Questions About Preprofessionalism 1. What is preprofessionalism and what are its causes? Is Union now a more preprofessional college than it was fifteen years ago? If so, in what way? Are we more preprofessional than the schools we usually compare ourselves with? What is the effect on the social and intellectual climate? Which statistics should we look at? 2. What is the difference between education and training? Why do we choose to say that some programs and fields are suitable for Union and others are not? (Consider, for example, accounting, police science, Sanskrit poetry, Western Literature, technical writing, linguistics and ·music practicum). How preprofessi·onal are our in- ternships? Are they suitable? 3. Have we allowed preprofessional pressures to affect which courses we offer (e.g., finance courses rather than history af economic thought in the Economics department, because of the interest of pre-business. students), course content, or teaching style to the extent that we have cacrificed important values? (Some wonder, for example, whether our basic introductory service courses in Mathematics, Physics, Biology, and Chemistry, whose content is largely determined by lists of topics and skills required by preprofessionals majoring in other fields, really serve as good introductory courses). 4. Are faculty in those fields traditionally associated by students with pre-medical, pre- business, and pre-law pre pa rat ion (Biology, Economics, Political Science) sufficiently enthusiastic about the opportunities and ad- vantages of majoring in non- traditional fields when they advise such students? Should we discourage preprofessional societies or even drop official designations ()f students as, for example, \pre-meds\? Should we avoid declaration of a major until the sophomore year, so that students will have faculty advisors outside of the department which they might have felt was their only choice? MEMO TO: Faculty, Students and Administrators FROM: Subcouncil on the Curriculum: Zwicker, Thurston, Rudko, Moss, Sorum, Cooper RE: I. Panel on 11 Core versus Distribution Requirements\ II: Future Plans 5. Do our admissions and financial aid policies exacer- bate preprofessional pressures, and if so, are those who would change such policies willing to live with the possible con- sequences of decline in S,A. T. scores, etc.? Does our success at placing students in professional schools improve our ability to attract highly qualified applicants? 6. Should we attempt to counter the narrow interests of preprofessional students with \hook\ courses (e.g., medical ethics), by forcing them into broader non-preprofessional courses through more stringent general education requirements, by ''liberalizing'' the preprofessional majors (e.g., require History of Economic Thought for an economics major and bill it as essential to a business career), or in some other way? Are our students aware of just how broad the spectrum of possible careers really is? 7. Are there links between the mixed messages our students receive as to the relative im- portance of training for a specific career and of educating themselves generally, and the mixed messages our faculty receive as to the relative im- portance of doing research, publishing, and teaching within their discipline and of con- tributing to general education? To avoid hypocrisy in each case, do we need to bring reward systems more in line with professed values? I. In the panel discussion on \General Ed11cation: Core Curriculum versus Distribution Requirements\ on Tuesday, September 24, the following general areas of agreement seemed to emerge among the panelists: definition of our curricular goals. The panel on \General Education: Core versus Distribution Requirements\ was the first in the series of fonnal discussions. B'. To receive written comments from the faculty and students on the various goals proposed in discussion by the FIRST WEEK OF NOVEMBER. A. That at present there is too wide a seleCtion of courses available to satisfy Liberal Learning requirements. B. That there is a need for some kind of modified distribution system that would contain some type of core requirement but not necessarily one in which all students would take the same course(s). C. That there is a great concern over reconciling the role of the faculty member as a professional and ·as a generalist, The SubcoWlcil invites the campus conunWlity to continue to discuss these issues at the scheduled panel discussion on \Preprofessionalism\ on October 9 at 11:30 (the Minerva Hour). II. The Subcouncil has received many inquiries about the procedures that we plan to follow in our consideration of the curriculwn. Our schedule and plans are as follows: A. To arrange a series of discussions and panels on the various aspects of the curriculum in order that we all may rethink the issues involved and arrive at some C. To receive written comments on the general structure or outline of the curriculum from the faculty and students by the THIRD WEEK OF NOVEMBER. D. To submit to the faculty and students by the START OF WINTER TERM general outlines of several plans for the curriculum that might begin to achieve our goals. The facultY will then use these outlines in order to develoo soecific course proposals or sets of courses that might be included in a revised curriculum. These' proposals from the faculty must be submitted to us by the FOURTH WEEK~ OF WINTER TERM. E. To utilize the faculty,s course proposals in order to develop several possible curricula. We willsubmit.these·proposals with our recommendation to the AAC by the END OF THE WINTER TERM. The AAC will consider our proposals and then submit them with their recommendations by the END OF THE SPRING TERM to the general faculty for discussion and a vote. · Ka~Ma l.hCZ&SUM Chol\ng a;,n~ LAe vi4i£ o/ ./{24 ~entt:E:2 ·~AHG()NK()NGTJtUL> ~lll'ocf1e lj l,l ~ I . { ,. h ; t I; •·I I.!

ld r- s, ld to rl· r. s n ·e y :o )f h !I 0 .1 .t r rl ' ' I s I f I ~ i I I i ( '~ ' ' ' ' I ; ~ l If I I 1.1 , I j ,. I! II ll . ~ ·' \' CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 PageS Memo Circulated to Faculty on CurricUlum Perhaps this m'aterial, originally provided to the ''Core vs. Distribution\ panelists as background reading,. will help maintain ' the lively spirit of debate established at last Tuesday's discussion. The \Three Offensive Stereotypes'' were intended to discredit the sort of argtlll1ent which has c polarized discussions of curriculmn on many campuses, and which proceeds by presuming, and thEm con- demning, one's opponent's motives. It is not a parody of extreme positions, nor is it a caricature of individuals. The stereotypes were compiled from arguments found in several published sources. Twelve Provocative Questions . and Three Offensive Stereotypes 1. Why have general education requirements at all? Are there certain things people should know when they graduate from college, or are there certain things that they should know how to do? 2. Does the curriculum primarily serve the interests of (a) society, (b) the intellectual community, (c) Union College· faculty, (d) future employers, (e) consumers (students) of the product we produce 3. Should categories for a general education program be defined in terms of (a) types of methodology, (b) subject matter, (c) departmental or ·divisional boundaries, (d) modes of thought; com- petencies, or in some other way? 4.. Some split general education into (1) \advanced learning skills\ in Mathematics and the English language, (2) breadth courses, (3) integrative courses. Is thir, division ap- propriate? What are the im- plications for the· organization of a General Educ~tion Program? 5. If. there is a core of material all students should learn, is it helpful to define it in terms of a reading list? How long would the list be? 6. Should we strengthen Union's Humanities requirement simply because · many of its students are in• terested in other things? 7. Should a college education attempt to transmit values (for example: intellectual self- reliance, tolerance of diverse points .of view. etc.)? - 8. What are :student attitudes towards general education? Would a general education system entailing little freedom of choice be unpopular? 9. What are the advantages and disadvantages of thematic courses (courses which cross departmental lines, e.g. Fresh- man Preceptorial, Western Civilization, etc.}? Would it be reasonable to build a general education program whicp relies heavily on such courses, or do we lack a sufficient number of able, enthusiastic faculty with the background necessary to teach them? Should we make room for a sinall number of such courses within a system which does not rely primarily on them. 10. Some say a switch to a core curriculum would require a significant number of new courses and a correspondingly large shift in the balance of courses taught by an individual faculty member and would. force some departments to grow and others to shrink, while a new distribution system would entail only the repackaging of present courses with little effect on the teaching- balance. Is this the case? Are there desirable middle grounds or third alternatives? 11. Should every faculty 111ember have the opportunity to . teach his or her specialty? Would a general education system based on a much smaller number of courses TO: Union faculty would betaken in the winter and From: Frank Gado spring terms of the freshman Subject: Curricular reform year._... 2. +A corresponding course Obviously, the Thursday extending frmm the classical panel discussion is ill-suited to period to the start of the presentation and debate of Renaissance. Sophomore year. specific proposals for 3. A freshman writing course curricular reform; however, meeting once a week for Ph sinc-e Jim Underwood has hours throughout the year. The Issued an outline of his first tenn would be devoted to proposals and several other the mechanics of composition. schemes have begun cir- In the second and third terms, culating, I thought it might be the topics would be keyed to the useful to add a couple of pages freshman humanities course. of my views to the pile at this Students would write six papers initial stage of consideration. A over the three terms. full exposition of the rationale 4. A three-course science for each item, of the mechanics requirement; students coul'd be of implementation, and of how excused from two of the units by the several proposals relate to a passing a proficiency reorientation of our education- examination at the start of the al policies would require much freshman year. · more space and time than I 5. A course dealing with presently have at my disposal, computers (perhaps the Sloan but this very rough sketch course that has been should at least indicate the developed). Here I'm clearly direction of my thoughts. beyond my competence to ·One more preliminary note: prescribe, but the evidence is some of the items, marked by a overwhelming that, from this cross ( +), would be required of moment in history on, some candiates for the BA; faculty in familiarity with this new Center II might prefer to technology will be essential to substitute other requirements functioning in the world. or by•pass these -\slots\ 6 +Proficiency in a foreign entirely in determining a language through the \12\ program for their ma:jors. level. 1. A two-tenn course in the 7. Limitation of the nwnber of emergence of the modern world courses required for the major (from the latter decades of the to twelve......,and in most 15th century to the beginning of departments, to ten-exclusive the 20th). Per week: two lee- of the thesis. tures (for which the lecturers 8. Each major requirement would be paid); two would also include six courses \recitation' 1 (or '.'precep- drawn from two associated torial\) meetings (with the · disciplines. same instructor over the ten . 9. Reinstitution of major field weeks). The course would examinations for seniors. stress major events in in- 10. +Two \reading\ courses, tellectual, social, and political with no classroom instruction, history and features in addition, chosen from a restricted list of lectures on literature, art, syllabi offered by participating music, philosophy, and departments. Each such course scientific theories. The course would have to enroll at least significantly limit the pre,sent degree of freedom to teach specialized courses? Is a dose of thematic courses the ap- propriate antidote to an education consisting largely of very specialized courses? 12. How serious are the problems with our present Liberal Learning program? Is a minor adjustment called for, or a major change? Three Stereotypical Arguments Found on Many Campuses (A) Friends of a core curriculum approach to general education are reactionaries who would like to pretend th~t the explosion of knowledge in the twentieth century has not taken place, and that students are .still chosen from a small, culturally homogeneous elite who can afford to spend time polishing a cultured image while they delay preparing for a career. In reality, there is no longer any reasonably small central body of most important information, and students from diverse backgrounds have different needs. Rather than being \generalists those who aregue for a core are mostly dilettantes who attack specialization because their own research is weak or non- existent. Some faculty who now teach in shrunken liberal arts courses may couch their arguments for a core curriculum in eloquently altruistic terms when, in fact, they are fighting to save their paychecks· by restoring thinly justified course requirements. For some, it goes deeper; the goal of a coherent, rational core curriculum is to rescue the epistemology of those hmnanistic disciplines from the relativistic slough into which their chief · practitioners fear them to have fallen. B) The supporters of four students; all would have final examinations. One of these courses would be in the major; the other in an associated discipline. One of the two could be a five-week course. (see below.) 11. Writing past the freshman year: Sophomores and juniors would submit revisions of two essays (totaling not less tl'lan 20 1 pages), previously graded and corrected by instructors in other courses, for independent evaluation. This \writing grade\ would appear on the transcript and be computed as a ''loth course\ in determing GPA.· 12. Calendar modification. (Would any proposal for curricular reform be complete without raising the question of the calendar?) Students would register for a whole year's courses at a time. The three- tenn calendar would remain but the winter term would break into two segments (separated by a four-day . exam period spanning a weekend). This modification could ac- commodate those courses that seein better suited to a fifteen- week term. It would also allow the undergraduate instruction, the readings for Restoration and 18th Century Drama (Endlish59) and-Autobiography (English 30)-to pick on two cow·ses I have taught--could easily -be pruned to five weeks andstill cover the basic points. ) 13. Grade reform. Obviously, exact grade equivalency across the curriculum is beyond at- tainment, but -there should be some attempt to determine what these sacred symbols mean. If the Department of Agriculture can describe a Grade A potato, we should be able to describe what a Union A continued on page 9 distribution systems are more interested in protecting their own turf than they are in promoting any rational or coherent vision of a liberal arts education. They know that most distribution sysyems allow departments and,. by extension, individual faculty members to teach whatever they would like, regardless of its aegree of specialization or ap- propriateness to an un- dergraduate education. It is more important for students to be exposed to a course on the history of economic thought or even on the history of Western Civilization, than to one on late nineteenth century Armenian capitalism? They would rather not say, because such a decision would involve making judgements based on values, while their own education and research (23 papers on late nineteenth century Armenian capitalism) has avoided such soft quantities. They will say, however, that it is bad for students to be taught by non-experts and that they are not qualified to te.ach Western Civilization and, since they feel threatened by those whose education was less narrow than their own, they say that others must also be unqualified .. Why do most of the rationales for distribution systems seem vague, confqsed, self-contradictory, or even appear to have been tailored later to fit decisions actually based on political com- promises? Because support for distribution systems is based on narrow self-interest coupled with a lack of will to make judgements rather than on any vision at all of a coherent, rational curriculum. (C) Most college students did not decide to go to college; they had their choice made for them because of their social and economic class and correspondingly narrow range of acceptable careers. Those who chose a small, selective liberal arts college did not do so because they wanted a liberal arts education (they are not sure what this term means) but rather because their choice offered the most prestige among those that accepted them and because it allowed them four more years of close contact with and support by the faculty-i.e. it gave them four more years of having their hands held and their decisions made for them. · This can be most clearly seen when students at such a college appear before their faculty advisors to decide on their first term schedule. Many have not looked seriously at the catalog listings, others complain that they cannot find anything they are interested in. Intellectual curiosity has been selected against by the factors used by both the students and the admissions office-how many times to incoming fresh- men ask their advisors to help them select three courses from among the long list the student would like to take? Because the students view their role in the educational process as being a passive one (a vat being pumped full of fluid?), they will not care at all about core vs. distribution. Of course, if whatever decision is made has the effect of limiting their ability to satisfy general education courses with \guts or forces them to confront courses which make them think or which are not relevant (to their chosen careers) or which asks them to read authors who died before Union's students were born or to remember material taken in a previous course, or which do not frequently enough instill motivation through drills and quizzes, then we will hear from the students. Subcouncil on the Curriculam

Page6 . I CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 UNION COLLEGE FILM COMMinEE · Presents IMPORTANT. CAMPUS ·FALL TERM MOVIES Oct. 4-6 (7,9, 11) 2010 Oct. 9 (7,9, 11) Arsenic ·and Old lace Oct. ll-13 (7,9, 11) Tightrope Oct. 16 (7,9,11) Rear Window Oct. 18-20 (7,9,11) ·Grem:lins Oct. 22 (7,9, 11) Everything You Always W~nted to know About Sex; But Were Afraid to Ask Oct. 25-27 (7 ,9, 11) Witness Oct. 31 ( 7,9, 11 ) When a Stranger Calls Nov. 1-3 (7,9, 11) Diner Nov.5(7,9,11) Cloak and Dagger Nov. 8-10 (7, 10) Reefer Madness Up in Smoke Nov. 12 ( 7 : 30 I 1 0) Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence Nov. 15-17 ( 7: 30 I 1 0) The Natural LOCATION'S · Food Service Jan Gray .. Director. Student Activities Lorraine Marra - Coordinator Meeting Spaces ( 3) WRUC Residence life ~ David Wood - Director Religious Programs Sr. J·oan Vlaun Rev. Hugh Nevin Old Chapel, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, 3rd Floor ' Old Chapel, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, 3rd Floor Whitaker House I South College 2nd Floor Whitaker House I South College 2nd Floor Dean of Student's Office Whitaker House /South College Joseph Mammola, Dean Robert Massa, Assistant Student Mail Services Athletic Department Offices lst Floor ' Richmond Hall Base111ent Memorial Fieldhouse ·~,..-= ... .,. \\\'11!8'··----------- .... -----·-..----· ClU·:DITGETTER, BOX. 29158lt, DAVIE ,,FL 333291 ---------··----c-. :· :•.·: .. I Nuw YOU can have two ot the IJIOat rec.:Jgnized and a':..:.:pc:ed ._c_,iftcdrd•~ ii1 the world ..• Vl!>Aoil> .snd H.alltt!rcar.i.IC ..:red1t t:drJe •... \in vjur n .. w.ct\ EVI'.N IF YOU Ai.b: Nl!:lJ LN UU:DrT o.r HAV t. llli..E.N T\JiUlKD OOWll l!HOU I ~YES! I w~nt VISA,~·1aster.Car~mcredi~ : ~ C:a rds. Enc lused find $15 which is 100~ 1 ll refundable- if not approved immediately 1 V!:.A~ ,md H.o .. t ere dtti.w tl.l! creoJ1t ,·,uJe y0u ,1ea~rve and 11\'ed for \ llJ \' Bv-'KS * DJ::.!'A.IU'MI:.Nl' S l'OH.J::S * Tt..: I Tl!lN * l:.NTERTAI Nl'lt::IIIT * I:J-HJ\GtNC't CA.:>l1 • rtCKHS II l!.E~TAURANTS * liLlTELS - HUl't:LS * CAS * CAll ki::NTALS ~ 11\l:.l'AIRS * MID Tll BU I Ul YOUi CREDH RAU~ I Tltl::. i::i t!.e credit curd intormat.1on kit ~>tudenta hciVI:! l>ceu re.:.dinK abuul .l.u I·ublicutluno trum cua\t lu cu.H•t and 1ududes SPECIAL STlllll:NT Al'Pl Jt'A'IItlNS r u r M«l:lt\' rcard & v taa -~;-.~.,-e1i--;,.~- ;:;-ther -·l.~t.\ ;.:;,~;:r ch<u~e· cardt~. Approval abt>olutt!ly i!,UanutL~;:t!d tlO liurry .... f1~l out this (ard tuday .... Yuur cr~dlt carda ar~ w~1Llu~l H I II ______ ,f u NAME I ft I w ADOt<~S-:) I ~ CITY STATE liP - J u - -------· . t II PHONE soc SECURITY - I fJ ---------- --- - - - I fa s t(JI'-JA r u 1 <E 1 -~--------------·-- ....... ~ Did you know that the - PAPA~ CICCO'S PIZZA 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched delivery truck which enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and we will send our well stocked truck to your location. LARGE PARTIE£$ ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE average Amer- ican watches over 50 hours of television per · week? SUNDAY IS SODA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you will receive one coupon. Save them and collect FREE merchandise. '· ~ . • • , f ' I I •..; . i Calzones White Pizza Gourmet Pizza Hot Sandwi.ches Specialty Breads Too-bad there are no Unions to change that to a 40 hour week. TRY OUR FAMOUS BROCCOLI PIZZA ~ ,... . ..,..,,_., ... , .... \\\.._. •. ...,,*\\..,_\\\'\\'_.. ...... - ~\\'to\' .. .., .• • • ~ ~ • ~I .... ...~- ~.- ..... &,.. ............... ~ .... ,.,. ........................ ~ ... -·\'-··-- ..... - ... .,., ......... .,. .. --- ....................... ~ • .,..,.._ n • •

Page6 UNION COlLEGE FILM COMMinEE Presents FALL TERM MOVIES Oct. 4-6 (7,9,11) 2010 Oct. 9 (7,9, 11) Arsenic and Old Lace Oct. 11-13 (7,9, 11) Tightrope Oct. 16 (7,9,11) Rear Window Oct. 18-20 (7,9,11) Gremlins Oct. 22 (7,9, 11) Everything You Always Wanted to know About Sex; But Were Afraid to Ask Oct. 25-27 (7,9, 11) Witness Oct. 31 (7,9,11) When a Stranger Calls Nov. 1-3 (7,9, 11) Diner Nov.5(7,9,1l) Cloak and Dagger Nov. 8-10 (7, 10) Reefer Madness Up in Smoke Nov. 12 (7:30, 10) Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence Nov. 15-17 (7:30,10) The Natural CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 IMPORTANT CAMPUS LOCATIONS Food Service Jan Gray • Director Stu·de:nt Activities Lorraine Marra - Coordinator Meeting Spaces ( 3) WRUC Residence Life David Wood .. Director Religious Programs Sr. Joan Vlaun Rev. Hugh Nevin Old Chapel, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, 3 rd Floor Old Chapel, 3 rd Floor Whitaker House I South College 2nd Floor Whitaker House I South College 2nd Floor Dean of Student's Office Whitaker House/South College Joseph Mammola, Dean Robert Massa, Assistant Student Mail Services Athletic Department Offices 1st Floor Richmond Hall Basement Memorial Fieldhouse ----------~-------~---· CHFD1TCETTU<.,BOX 2915(:Sft, DAVIE,FL 333291 --:- ·-·-·- --··--- --··- ·--·--------. Nuw YuU , an have two of the cooat re<·vk!nized and ,s,, t!pted \\Ji.tc:rtrda in the ~Jorld ... VI~A.Jl- dlnd !'i.illter,·ar·i;t. redlt ,.,rJe .... \in y..~.,r n\\'\'\ EVI:.N IF Y!)U A.B.l:: Nt:W IN •.IU:lHT v.c h.AH llt.W TI)l\1-li::.D DvWt-1 til:.fUIU: I ~VESt [ W..lllt vr:;,\~~·!astt:r~..ird~:Dc:redi~: if c.trd~. _r:n,·)_'2_!:>~d find $15 wh1ch is l(Jr);~ 1 It r t~ f un d a b 1 t: if n u t d p p r o v c d i r:une d i a t e 1 y 1 V!:,A& .;nd !'i\Nt~r• . .tt•LlY tl.i! c rc!LllL . <>I Js yuu i<'t><: rve 1.1.nJ ll!:'t:d t .. r * li.J * B<o· ••.:> • Ut.t'Al<lMl'NT ':lll)ltJ:.S * f1.·1 TI!JN * ~I<Tti<.!Al'<H~t.rr * I:.Hl:l'I.L,r.N~~y CA..>it * fll:j(..f'TS \ t<E',l'Auii.ANTS h I Jl -------- ------------ I it N-AME . ··- I H I \ ltvTI::U. 1. Mult.L:. * LA:i * t.Ail krN1ALS • l<tl'A!KS IJ· ·-·-·-· · ---·- -------··----·- I • .Wl.J ru BU I Li> 'i ot: i Ll:U:.D 1f II..A fl Nt..l • ·,t ArXJI<t.),) I '11 1 1~ 1, tt•·· 'r··Jit ,_ .. rul i<lldrul~ti•JU kit <>tliJents h<iVt' .. 11 u J.,. t'll ;t'ad~llf( ab:ul lll 1 ut,7 iL'<.~llono t r·ll!li '\'\'l ! \ ~i C-1h- -·---- ~fAit: L~~ ··•• <u.t .• t ctlld ltulw..lco ~ii'I·I\IAI Sllll·l'il Al'l'll•,\ll•!'iS ~ Ju< M«hl<:!Curd & Vl~d a~--w-;,ll.al:l-\lll:t!r l.<ill ... h-.;1 H -·--- -- --------·····----- -·-··-·------ ff .:haaxc , <.It db. AlJi>fuvul ctlawlult:ly t.U<IC<ll•lt:<!d t><l U Pri<Jt,l: ')C)C SECuRITY 111 1 Hurry •.•. t 1: I uut lhid · ,;rd t •. <J .. y.... U .... ·-- . ------·- --·--·· ..... . -·- _ I Yuur cr~dlt cdrdd &re lo'a1Liu1Sl 'j SI(_,NAfv,<t I t......l~..lt.--- r.;;ll~ ........... -..a,.;;~----L------ --· -·-· --··-- ----- ·--------~~----------------------' PAPA~ CICCO'S PIZZA 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched delivery truck which enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and we will send our well stocked truck to your location. SUNDAY IS SODA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you will receive one coupon. Save them and collect FREE merchandise. LARGE PARTIES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE Calzones White Pizza Gourmet Pizza Hot Sandwiches Speci.Jty Dreads TRY OUR FAMOUS BROCCOLI PIZZA Did you know that the average Amer- ican watches over 50 hours of television per week? Too bad there are no Unions to change that to a 40 hour week. - \ l ' .I ... (l .) !, ! l I . I i •

•• • I CONCORDfENSJS, October 3, 1985 Page7 / UniOn Needs YoU By TilE YOUNG REPUBLICANS On February 13, 1985 the Union College Young Republican Club was officially formed to help the students of Union become involved on Campus. The Club provides the opportunity for the student body to voice their ideas,. enhance the college community's political awareness, and develop leadership qualities in those who are willing to , challenge themselves as well as our society. The Club publishes annual newsletters, interviews selected candidates such as college professors, and arrang.es for various key political figures to speak to the college community.· The Standing Committees available for involvement are Foreign Affairs, National Affairs,. Publications, Polling, Campaign, Advisory, Mem- bership Political Education, Public Relations, Research, and Social. The Foreign Affairs Qommittee examines the world arena and targets various areas of political and economical turmoil that affect international relations. The National Affairs Conunittee on the other hand examinesthe factors both home and abroad which affect the U.S. economy. The Research and Publications Committees gather the data necessary to write the articles to be published in the Concordiensis and our own periodical, The . Union Review. The Club needs students to take on responsibility and commit themselves to go above and beyond the average student You have only_ a few more years. of the good life\ left. It is not too late to get involved and perform an active role on campus. All students, the faculty, and the local community are welcomed to participate in the club. For more information please send a letter to the Union College Young RepublicanClub at P.O. Box 1859 or call the Club phone at 382-1766. Don't miss your chance to voice your opinion on campus! JSUParty in .Old Chapel Thurs., Oct. 8th FEATURES beginning at 10 :p.m. FREE BEER, Food Music, Mixed Drinks- Bring Your Friends Stacy Halfand, The JSU President, and Adam Falk at the very successful JSU Sukkah Building Party last Sunday. The JSU planned to have the Sukkah up all week, but it's being taken down early,because of vandalism. · , Physics Dept. ·Welcomes New Faculty e8Jtoppe* for great fall fashions 133 Canal Square · 370-4288 By KEVER SHEmANI Contributor Union's Physics Department now enjoys the addition of two new faculty members. They are Dr. Richard Magahiz and Dr. Laszlo Baksay. Dr. Magahiz's parents were first .generation Americans who came here from the Phillipines. He was born in San Francisco. In 1976, Dr. Magahiz was ad- mitted to a highly selective \integrated science\ program at Northwestern University and received B.A.'s in both that program and in Physics. He then went to M.I. T. as a student and research assistant, because of research experience he LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you enioy helping in· dividua·ls and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yourself a legitimate and con~ scionable fee for your service in ioining borrower and lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending (after we have taught you our system), without disturbing what you are doing now for a living, then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (Please do not apply if you have any objections· to becoming a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable from first completed loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 mHiion, thereafter5%, $1 billion and over add 21J2%).. Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry, call 1-203- 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -Our 50th Anniversary 1935-1985- gained at Northwestern University involving high- energy physics. The spring of 1985 was a memorable season for Dr. Magahiz. He was not only married, but also received his doctorate from M.I. T. His thesis concentrated on in- teractions with neutrinos. Neutrinos are very minute massless particles that can travel at very high speeds through solids. They are a subject of great interest in high- energy physics. Dr. Magahiz met Professor David Peak, Chairman of the Physics Department, at a scientific meeting sponsored by the American Physics Society (APS), in Toronto. At the time he was looking for a teaching position, and Professor Peak invited him to visit the department. Dr. Magahiz was very impressed by U\}ion's Physics Department, and by the fact that Union is a liberal learning school, and yet very strong in scientific areas. He believes that open-mindedness and good education consist of experiences in a wide variety of fields. These two factors and the small size of Union were the major influences in Dr. Magahiz's decision to teach at Union College. Dr. Magahiz is presently teaching Physics 11, an introductory course open to all majors. Dr. Laszlo Baksay was born in Budapest, Hungary. In 1956, at the age of eleven, he and his family fled to Germany after the defeat of the Hungarian freedom fight. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. from Technische Hocschule Aachen in West Germany .in 1972, and 1978, respectively. Between1972 and 1978 he held a position as German Government Research Scholar in Geneva, Switzerland for three years. Dtiring that time he collaborated with Professor Carlo Rubbia of Harvard University, who won the 1984 Nobel Prize in Physics. Since 1978 he has worked as a Visiting Scientist at University of California, Berkeley, and Associate Professor of Physics at University of Dallas, Texas. In 1977 he was one of eight German scientists among 700 who qualified to perform ex- periments in space on board the Spacelab-Space Shuttle. After tests in 1982 he is one of five scientists who still remain qualified. Dr, Baksay heard about an open teaching position at Union College when he was in Dallas . He was very impressed by the quality of the students at Union College and by the research facilities. He mentioned that students here enjoy the use of equipment that many Physics majors in graduate school do not have access to, and that he is surprised that Union is not better known outside of the East coast. He is a stern believer that first-rate research work can be done in collaboration with undergraduate students. Like Dr. Magahiz, Dr. Baksay's area of major interest is high-energy physics, and he is interested in setting up a team with him. He also believes that a strong liberal learning background is a necessity in order for one to be well-educated. The only area in which Dr. Baksay feels Union is lacking is diversity among the students, and he is presently involved with the newly formea International Student Organization at Union. Dr. Baksay is presently teaching Physics 22, an electronics course not open to engineers.

' ' i .I> l I ' \ ! ~f r : ! • CONCORiJIENSI~ October 3, 1985 Page7 Union Needs You By THE YOUNG REPUBLICANS On February 13, 1985 the Union College Young Republican Club was officially formed to help the students of Union become involved on Campus. The Club provides the opportunity for the student body to voice their ideas, enhance the college community's political awareness, and develop leadership qualities in those who are willing to · challenge themselves as well as our society. The Club publishes annual newsletters, interviews selected candidates such as college professors, and arranges for various key political figures to speak to the college community. The Standing Committees available for involvement are Foreign Affairs, National Affairs, Publications, Polling, Campaign, Advisory, Mem- bership Political Education, Public Relations, Research, and Social. The Foreign Affairs ~ommittee examines the world arena and targets various areas of political and economical turmoil that affect international relations. The National Affairs Committee on the other hand examines the facturs both home and abroad which affect the U.S. economy. The Research and Publications Committees gather the data necessary to write the arUcles to be published in the Concordiensis and our own periodical, The Union Review. The Club needs students to take on responsibility and commit themselves to go above and beyond the average student. You have only a few more years of the good life\ left. It is not too late to get involved and perform an active role on campus. All students, the faculty, and the local community are welcomed to participate in the club. For more information please send a letter to the Union College Young Republican Club at P.O. Box 1859 or call the Club phone at 382-1766. Don't miss your chance to voice your opinion on campus! JSUParty in Old Chapel Thurs., Oct. 8th FEATURES beginning at 10 p.m. FREE BEER, Food Music, Mixed Drinks Bring Your Friends Stacy Halfand, The JSU President, ai1d Adam Falk at the very successful JSU Sukkah Building Party last Sunday. The JSU planned to have the Sukkah up all week, but it's being taken down early because of vandalism. Physics Depte Welcomes New Faculty e8]Loppe* for great fall fashions 133 Canal Square 370-4288· By KEVEH SHEffiANI Contributor Union's Physics Department now enjoys the addition of two new faculty members. They are Dr. Richard Magahiz and Dr. Laszlo Baksay. Dr. Magahiz's parents were first generation Americans who came here from the Phillipines. He was born in San Francisco. In 1976, Dr. Magahiz was ad- mitted to a highly selective \integrated science\ program at Northwestern University and received B.A.'s in both that program and in Physics. He then went to M.I.T. as a student and research assistant, because of research experience he LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you enjoy helping in- dividuals and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yourself a legitimate and con- scionable fee for your service in joining borrower and lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending (after we have taught you our system), without disturbing what you are doing now for a living, then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (Please do not apply if you have any objections to becoming a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable from first completed loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 million, thereafter5%, $1 billion and over add 212%). 1 Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry, ca II 1-203- 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -Our 50th Anniversary 1935-1985- gained at Northwestern University involving high- energy physics. The spring of 1985 was a memorable season for Dr. Magahiz. He was not only married, but also received his doctorate from M.I.T. His thesis concentrated on in- teractions with neutrinos. Neutrinos are very minute massless particles that can travel at very high speeds through solids. They are a subject of great interest in high- energy physics. Dr. Magahiz met Professor David Peak, Chairman of the Physics Department, at a scientific meeting sponsored by the American Physics Society (APS), in Toronto. At the time he was looking for a teaching position, and Professor Peak invited him to visit the department. Dr. Magahiz was very impressed by Union's Physics Department, and by the fact that Union is a liberal learning school, and yet very strong in scientific areas. He believes that openGmindedness and good education consist of experiences in a wide variety of fields. These two factors and the small size of Union were the major influences in Dr. Magahiz's decision to teach at Union College. Dr. Magahiz is presently teaching Physics 11, an introductory course open to all majors. Dr. Laszlo Baksay was born in Budapest, Hungary. In 1956, at the age of eleven, he and his family fled to Germany after the defeat of the Hungarian freedom fight. He received his M.S. and Ph.D. from Technische Hocschule Aachen in West Germany in 1972, and 1978, respectively. Between 1972 and 1978 he held a position as German Government Research Scholar in Geneva, Switzerland for three years. During that time he collaborated with Professor Carlo Rubbia of Harvard University, who won the 1984 Nobel Prize in Physics. Since 1978 he has worked as a Visiting Scientist at University of California, Berkeley, and Associate Professor of Physics at University of Dallas, Texas. In 1977 he was one of eight German scientists among 700 who qualified to perform ex- periments in space on board the Spacelab-Space Shuttle. After tests in 1982 he is one of five scientists who still remain qualified. Dr. Baksay heard about an open teaching position at Union College when he was in Dallas. He was very impressed by the quality of the students at Union College and by the research facilities. He mentioned that students here enjoy the use of equipment that many Physics majors in graduate school do not have access to, and that he is surprised that Union is not better known outside of the East coast. He is a stern believer that first-rate research work can be done in collaboration with undergraduate students. Like Dr. Magahiz, Dr. Baksay's area of major interest is high-energy physics, and he is interested in setting up a team with him. He also believes that a strong liberal learning background is a necessity in order for one to be well-educated. The only area in which Dr. Baksay feels Union is lacking is diversity among the students, and he is presently involved with the newly tormea International Student Organization at Union. Dr. Baksay is presently teaching Physics 22, an electronics course not open to engineers.

I. ',. PageS CONCORD/ENSJS, October 3, 1985 FEATURES Rugby: A New· E:Jperience By WENDY ZIMMERMAN · Contributor . I love rugby, I love rugby, I love rugby. I kept saying this to myself over and over again as I turned the alarm off at 6: 00 a.m., after a night of partying. I tried to convince myself that getting three hours of sleep and traveling five hours in a rented van was worth it to play a game of rugby. I • ·for Potsdam. At that point I really wasn't sure .if I was conscious yet because an I remembered seeing around me was barns, fields of cows, and mountains. So, I Went back to sleep. a rectangular marsh with a lake in the middle. I should have brought my bathing .suit!· Of course I'd left it at school along with my towel and a change of clothing. I didn't re~ember thQt getting wet was part of the game. I had to play the whole game. After looking at the opponents and the field my \pretty good attitude\ was non- existent. I forced myself to get , out tbere and play, and ended up having the time of my life. Sliding on warm, wet, muddy grass· can be pretty en- tertaining! Having serum down over a small sized pond and losing the ball in the murky water was pretty amusing. We had a coach that learned what His Eminence Jamon Kongtrul will give a public talk at Union next Tuesday afternoon. The beginning of the trip is a bit unclear considering I was not exactly in a conscious state at the time; I know though, that I was not yet convinced that all this was wol1h it for the team; and of all places ... Potsdam?! A town somewhere near the Canadian border. I woke up about lh hour later to the sound · of pouring rain against the windows, and a very large yellow M in front of me . . · . breakfast. After having to return my order because of an error en their part, I was get~ I Woke up to the sound of \hoorays!\ as we pulled into what is known as the· State University at Potsd~. For a momentithought we had pulled into some IBM comple\ or something. After all, what is a college campus without ivy, and a sixteen sided building in the middle? We made our way over to the field, but the only problem was a m~n's team practicing on it. As we got closer we realized that that was the women's rugby team! It was then that we knew ft wasn't worth it. Wben I got out of the van, I couldn't tell if I was shivering from the cold or from my fear. Of course in the spirit of the game I got myself psyched up to play. I started to head towards the field with a pretty' good attitude. Then I saw the lake.lt wasn't a field, it was he called \rules\ from his NFL football board game, . played Amazon mooses, lost 8-4; and came out of tbe game lookmg like creatures from a sci-fi movie.\ In .conclusion, we did go swimming in their naturally formed \lake\ to a round of applause and had what we thought to be an \awesome game.\ It really was worth it after all! Buddhist to T ., h ting the feeling that it may not have been worth it: The trip e a c . went for a few more hours and we passed the directional signs A prominent Buddhist teacher, His Eminence Jame:on Kongtrul RinJ!oche will visit the capital district on Monday and Tuesday, October 7 and 8, and will speak in Schenectady and Albany. The visit is spon- sored by Albany's Tibetan Buddhist center, Karma Thegsuni Choling. On Monday afternoon at 4:00 there will be a group audience with His Eminence at the center at 637 Washington Avenue. On Monday evening at 7:30 Jamgon Rinpoche will give a .public talk in the Recital Hall of the Per- forming Arts Center at Albany State University. The talk, entitled \Awakened Heart, Brilliant Mind\ is jointly sponsored with the University's Oriental Religion Seminar, and a donation of $3 is requested. On Tuesday afternoon Jamgon Rinpoche has been invited to Union College in Schenectady where he will give a public talk at 3: 45 in Social Sciences 115 entitled \The Heart of the Buddhist View,\ sponsored by the Philosophy Department. On Tuesday evening at 7:30 he will give refuge, followed by the · empowerment of Manjusri, the Bodhisattva of wisdom, at KTC. Taking refuge in the Buddha, his teachings, and the assembly of awakened ones is the first step on the Buddhist path to enlightenment. It is traditional to make an offering for the ceremony and $5 is suggested. Further information may be obtained by calling the center at 489-2181. Jamgon Rinpoche is one of the four leaders of the Karma Kagyu school of Tibetan Buddhism, who have been acting as regents since the death of His Holiness Karmapa, the head of the lineage. The other regents, Shamar Rin- poche, Situ Rinpocl)e, and Gyaltsap Rinpoche, have all visited Albany in recent years. Born in 1954 in the province of Kham in Eastern Tibet, J amgon Rinpoche was recognized as an incarnation of the 19th century teacher and scholar, Jamgon Kongtrul the Great, who wrote many works based on the teachings of various schools of Tibetan Buddhism. He was trained in the traditional monastic disciplines at Rumtek Monastery, in Sikkim, India, the seat of His Holiness Kar- mapa, and received all the empowerments and tran- smissions of the Kagyu lineage. Jamgon Rinpoche travelled with the Karmapa when he visited the United States in 1977 and in 1980. The 1980 visit in- cluded a stop in Albany where the Karmapa performed the blessing ceremony of the vajra crown. At Rumtek Jamgon Rinpoche supervises the training and education of the young incarnate lamas and monks. As one of the most respected teachers of the Kagyu lineage, he has assumed a prominent role in the in- ternational propagation of Tibetan Buddhism. The Psychology Department Presents . . MAKING DEAD; EUTHANASIA AS A SOCIAL ISSUE by Dr. Thomas Blank, Associate Professor of Psychology/ lehigh University KTC Meditation Center is affiliated with the Karmapa's main seat in North America, Karam Triyana Dhar- machakra, in Woodstock, New York where a Tibetan Buddhist Monastery is under con- struction. Where to draw the nne between life and death has become incre.asingly un- clear with improved medical techhology. As a result, individuals and in- stitutions are pressed to make difficult decisions about who to keep alive and who to let die or cause to die. Dr. Blank.'s work looks at the ways in wt:tich psychologists can illuminate ethical decisions about death. He exam'ines the social nature of the definition of death and dying and proposes an over-arching framework for viewing states of life and death across the lifespan, from premature birth to extreme old age. Thursday, October 3 at 4:00 Psychology Building, Room 213 The talk is free and open to the public. Coffee and doughnuts will lie served at 3:30. Computer Center News Rainbow Software Available For Checkout The following software packages for the Rainbow 100 are now available at the Office of Computer Services Operations Window: TOUCHuTYPIST-an interesting computer aided instruction course. MEDIA MASTER-a program to transfer files between a large number of different disk formats. PRINT -SCREEN-a program which enables the Rainbow Print Screen key. Available in both CP/M andMS-Dos. TK!SOLVER-a tool for people who commonly use equations for a~alysis, design, and planning. Dbase II-a database management tool using English-like commands. spreadsheet program with Information management LOTUS 1-2-3-a graphics and capabilities. Multiplan-a spreadsheet alternative to Louts 1-2- 3. WPS~80-a simple, easy-to-use word processing program. WordPerfect-an alternative word processing package with spelling checker. DPATCH-. a disk-utility pro~am that helps ensure .the security -and recoverabllity of files stored on disk media: DPATCH, runs on any computer with a CP/M operating system. Kermit-a simple and effective program which allows file transfers between the Vax cluster and the Rainbow. Also available are the trepreter I compiler packages: GW-BASIC Turbo Pascal Nevada FORTRAN Nevada COBOL following in- If you have any questions regarding the use or purchasing of the above packages you should contact Theresa Pardo or Felix Wu at OCS (370- 6293). . FREE RAINBOW SOFTWARE Good news for Rainbow users. Several hundred public domain programs are available from DE.C for the cost of a phone call. · When software 1s developed. within the . \Public domain\ it is available at \no charge\ to anyone who wants a copy. You may use KERMIT to copy the programs of interest to \you directly to your Rainbow. Programs of general interest include a Rainbow version of the standard VAX text editor (EDT), a Rainbow version of VAX RUNOFF, and a program that lets you run programs written for CP/M directly under MS-DOS. For more infonnation, contact David Hannay in the Compu~er Science Department at 370-6270 (VAXMAIL. HA.NNAYD). \- \

' I: I f ,. I l .. .. CONCORD lENS!$, October 3, 1985 Page9 Loretta Brown: New-Face at West By CATHY MARKES Staff . . . Loretta Brown . . . a familiar-sounding name. You say to yourself, \Do I know a Loretta Brown?\ Well, if you haven't already met her . this year, chances are you'll be. introduced to her soon. Loretta is the new Area Coordinator- Resident Director of West, Richmond and North Residence Halls. If you live in West; you pass her first-floor office £very day on your way upstairs. campus. The highlight of this week wasthe trip north tq Camp Dippikill in the Adirondacks, where such skills a.s cooperation and effective teamwork were. emphasized. Loretta found the trip to be not only a valuable l~arning experience, but also a few days of fun before the rest of the Union campus arrived. Now that we're all fairly settled,. it's easy to look back and say, \Oh moving in wasn't all that bad.\ Loretta helped that process rtm smoothly by working with the R.A. 's to make the dorms feel comfortable. Remember the nametags on all of our doors? And the munerous things maintenance came to fix? Besides that, she also approved our floor parties so we'd get to know each other better . Does the fun ever end? Kevin Sluyter: FEATURES Lt\<£, I'M W\1ft you, BRo' .. College Press Service • Loretta began. her position here at Union College this past August. While the campus was at a standstill, she decided to spend those first weeks reading about the college and familiarizing herself with . Union's campus. As ~he stresses, \Not only was this information helpful to me, but also to any new students who needed help finding anything once Orientation got un- derway.\ Before Orientation began, however, there was still work to be done-namely, paperwork and other organizational tasks. After the monotony came a week of fun and creativity with the R.A. training sessions. Residence Life Director,\Dave Wood and the three Area Coordinators participated in this \getting to know you\ process with the 41 R.A.'s on Nope-there's always R.~. evaluations, dorm council meetings; maintenance reports and new activities to keep Loretta busy. Looking back on her days as an R.A. at The College of Saint Rose in Albany, she finds her new job at Union just as enjoyable. She claims the transition was even easier than she had first imagined. Davidson's New Addition Frank Gadd ••• continued from page 5 signifies-especially in light . of the effect the variability of the standard has on course selec- tion. 14 through infinity. Vastly more important than any change in requirements is the atmosphere in which students .. ·. Loretta Brown ... sure I know a Loretta Brown. She's optimistic, motivated and an asset to Union's Residence Life team. So stop by West sometime to welcome Loretta to Union! develop over four years. Leadership from the ad- ministration, particularly the academic vice-president, can have a profound influence on that atmosphere through its ministry of the faculty. In my view, a basic change in attitude and in political will could have far-reaching consequences for our striving toward \ex- cellence.\ By MARJORm HOFFER Contributor Not only does Davidson Dormitory boast of a new lounge and excersie room-but a brand new area coordinator as well! Union welcomes the enthusiastic Kevin Sluyter. Actually, although new to Union, Kevin Sluyter is not inexperienced in many aspects connected with his position. A native of Albany, Kevin graduated from Albany Junior College and then from Michigan State where he majored in history and psychology. Afterwards, he returned to Albany and began working for the Capitol District Psychology Center. There he SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL THRU OCT. 10 $12.00 HAIRCUTS * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off rertail with student I D. PAISA MIS£R 163 .Jat St., S~h'dr -IIdia IIIDorts- 371-1913 .--B~ring in coupo~• - .... ·complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:.00 p.m. . A . E . I~ PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED lAYAWAY•IYowllhold)OUI .,. . .,-.,, i• Mj , Puttho-.t w·~~ a \\moll cfttpD\If l~ -e~ . ' We Also Do Alterat1ons li.... ~ * ~ .... ~ . . t' .J i . • • helped to take care of emotionally disturbed patients. From there, Kevin headed for an even more challenging position at St. Anne's in Albany, working with emotionally disturbed women. Many of the women there · had drug problems and were runaways. Kevin de~cribed the job as \enjoyable.'' He stated that the work was always a challenge, and he found most of the people who he worked with quite caring. However, on the other hand, the job was tense. Mter two years, he left the position because he felt that it no longer posed a challenge and was becoming frustrating. Kevin's next job was quite different from his previous two. He worked for the state in the taxation and finance depart- ment, reviewing accounts. Surprisingly, Kevin described this line of work as \tedious and mundane\. Thus, he arrived at Union College, opting for a more exciting environment and enthusiastic about working in an intellectual college at- mosphere. When asked how he felt about Union, Kevin replied that he 1 't f' ,.)' 't h . ll oves 1 , m'\'mg L p yslca y beautiful, and enjoying the small atmosphere. He is amazed with the intimacy of the students and faculty. In ad- 5Dorts ••• Confb..ued from page 20 The Killer B's lived up to their name and fought hard to go ahead but couldn't pull it out. When Hooker Ben Haftelleft the game during half-time with a shoulder injury, (after near- perfect hooking in the first half) A-team Hooker-Kicker Dave Blee came in to the game. Partially due to the strong winds that had been plaguing kickers all day, he missed a long penalty kick late in the second half that would have put the Killer B's ahead .. As time ran out in the game, dition, Kevin expresses a positive opinion towards the administration. He fe~ls that, on the one hand, that it en- courages the development of the students as a whole, and on the other, it gives him a lot of freedom and choice. As far as Kevin's feeling towards the student body goes, he says that the students are motivated, and noticed t])at they are concerned about their careers. Kevin ·is very interested in keeping the already motivated R.A. 's even more motivated. He also has many educational and social activities planned such as a terms abroad information session, career counseling programs, and instructions about the universal equipment. The problems that Kevin for- sees are those concerned with being new and seen as being solely disciplinary. He hopes that people feel that if they need someone to talk to that he is always available. Kevin feels that communication amongst the students is of the utmost importance. He wants it to be known that \I am not just here for fines\ and honestly hopes that \students will feel free to just stop in and say \hi\. It was a pleasure getting to know Kevin. Hopefully his future at Union will be as fulfilling as expected. the B's were mere inches from scoring. The final score was 6-4. Sophomore Tom Muzzonigro played a hard-hitting game- muscling down frequent tackles. Backing him up on this end is Prop Steve Lipsky who played B team Saturday after missing the last two weeks of practice due to a severe illness. His two week lay-off, however, didn't seem to hurt his game as he labeled several Siena ruggers who seemingly began to cower by his mere presence later on in the game. Union played RPI yesterday and take on Plattsburgh this Saturday in an away contest. WRITERS'. BLOCK CURED Send $2 for catalog of over 16,000 topics, to assist your writing efforts and help you beat Writers' Block. For info., call TOLL-FRI;:E 1- 800-621-5745. (In Illinois, call 312-922-0300. > Authors' Research, Rm. 600, 401 South Dear- born, Chicago I L 60605.

/. ' ' PagelO CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE! £~~T~l? §TAf3~ ()~·L-1 NY Style Deli NEWH.OURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-a p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382·5493 JOIN THE ;UNION RIDING CLUB Ride for Fun or lntercollegiately ·' * Expert Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES * Group Rates Available For Union Students Those inte·rested in joining Riding Club: Meeting on September 30at 7:30PM in Old Chapel For Information about riding for fun, group rates and d.iscounts: Conta.ct: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus or Lorraine Marra in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES Office in Old Chapel The. Union College Un .. dergraduate Review will hold a wine .and cheese reception to commemorate the publication of the third edition of the Review. ' The public is cordially invited to ioin us on Tuesday, October a at 4:00p.m. in Hale House, Lower Lounge. Freshman Records are available in the Office of Student Affairs located in WHITAKER HOUSE, SOUTH COLLEGE *Each record is $7.50 Get our new $49* software module when.- you buy an HP-41. It's a deal that has no equal; for a calculator that has noequaL . Our new HP-41 Advantage software module packs 12K of ROM. One and a half times the capacity of any other HP-41 module. Large enough to hold the most popular engineering, mathematical and financial pro- grams ever written for ~he HP-41. . You get comprehensiVe advanced ~atm~ math ~unc· tions, roots of equations and polynomials, I_ntegratiOns, base conversion and logic functwns, and tlme value of money functions. · Our new module is also sub-programmable. So you · access just a portion of a program, or trans- . . section to your owp. program. it's even menu-driven. That eliminates overlays going totak,e to help from Lmear Algebra . . .... Dynamics. - · · own. lts op¢tating f~l~n~t.ti·t~. ~d. • an ''equaW' ··mote ·engineers . ' . I'm a studen~ho h~ no equ;I. Here?s my -· . - -· proof-of-purchase to prove it. Plt~ase send me my free software module. Name Address· City State Phone Number HP-41 Serial Number Mail coupon with proof-of-purchase to: Hewlett-Packard Co., cfo Direct Mail Projects/M-M, P. 0, Box 10598, Pot'tland, Oregon 97209 Zip Offer not redeemable at HP dealor. HP-41 must be purchaoed between 8/15/85 nnd 11/15/85, Envelo~es must be p~olmorked by 12/31/85. Good only in ·U;S.A. Void where prohibtted, faked or restricted bi law. HP employee purchases not eligible. Allow s.s· weeks for delivery. . ,. i ' i I ' I I ! l .. ' c ..

l .. ' J ' c CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 Page 11 ' - - . ~Renanigana FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT Hair Designs ~ WELCOME BACK UNION! · 2 for 1 HAIRCUTS· Reg. $10. Now $5.00 Each . MON.-FRI. 9-9 SAT. 9-6 with this coupon validthru Oct. 20 372-0007 519 UNION ST. SCH'DY Phone: 393-5440/393·5441 Hours: Sun-Thu 11:30-10:00 S ializ • • C t Fri·Sat11:30-ll:OO pe( e M 3D OBese, Closed Mondays Szechuan & Hunan TakeOut or Eat In .We preJIIlre our foods with • • ri ~~~~·· Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount *or Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D. · 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn $23· 35 ~MO. $13·45* AMO. ~., n ~U<'#\• ,.~~•- $17·95* AMO. :::.: ~~· :::::::-;~X.:;..:~~~ :;z&: ' . . . . ..... ~ .!;:' ;:.~;:'\; • ' . . . • •• , • 'M\' ... \\'\'. ,..;:,, • - • , , '' •• ... ··' . . . .. . ... .... . . ·.· \· ... ·-·~···.. . ' .· .... . . . *13\ TV @ $i3.45 per month = $i21.05. *Console TV@ $23.35 per monlh = $210.15. Based on 9 monthly payments. *VCR@ $17.95 per month== $161.55. Based on 9 monthly payments. Based on 9monthly payments. STUDENT ID GETS YOU 10°/o OFF Make your payments with a major credit card, and you'll save another Now you can have a roommate you're $3.00 a month. And, let's face it, you guaranteed to get along with. And all _ don't have to have a PhD in economics you have to do is call Granad~ TV Rental. to realize they're the best deals around. At Granada, companionship comes What's more, our low rates also in- cheap. When you rent 'til the end of the elude free service and repairs, usually school year, your student I. D. gets you a within 24 hours. And if we can't fix it Magnavox, RCA or Hitachi color TV for as on the spot, we'll give you a free loaner. little as $13.45 to $23.35 a month. A VCR So give us a call today and let us set for as little as $17.95 to $22.95~a month. you up with an ideal roommate. Just And our incredible cornbo offer-a TV, think, if it ever gets on your nerves, you VCR and stand-for just $29.95 a month ............ can simply shut it off. TM GRANADA TV RENTAL THE BEST BUYS IN RENTING. ALBANY: CROSSGATES Mf\LL· (518) 456-8663 • Delivery charge not included in above cost. Applicants subject to credit references.

'' I . Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 Olllltlllrbirnsis Fuundrd at Unum CoJieg~ 1877 ------------ ----------- TheNewPub With the start of construction on the new College Center, the Dutch Hollow Pub has been temporarily replaced by the Hale House Dining Hall and Lower Hale House Lounge. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are being seryed in the dining hall on a cash basis and the lower lounge will be open for nighttime socializing. Hale House does not feel as homey and comfortable aks the former pub; understandably, the set-up looks quite temporary. It is also hard to get used to Hale House as \the new pub\ after recognizing it as a regular dining hall for so long. Nevertheless, it is noted that the Adrninistratiodn is trying to make the best of a tough situation. All new things take some getting used to. And while Ms. pacrnan may no longer be around, the salad bar still looks pretty good. It is hoped that students will take advantage of the new functions of Hale House lest it go the way of dinner at , Old Chapel ... closed due to sparce attendance. Responsibilities jour.nal.ize(jr' n' liz') vt.; to record (transactions, daily events, etc.) in a journal · · ··' That's the definition according to Webster's New World Dictionary. This is how we, at Concordiensis, view our responsibilities as a medium of com- munication. We record history. Nothing more, nothing less. History is events. Before we had journalism, we had fine art and literature to record the events of an area. But that was then, this is now. Now we have something called a newspaper. Its purpose~ not too far from the purpose of fine art and literature, is to record the events of our era. This holds true for both collegiate and professional newspapers; As an editorial board of a collegiate newspaper, we do not have the power of creation. We do not have control over what events do occur to shape history. According to Walter Lippmann, \Responsible journalism is journalism responsible in the last analysis to the editor's own conviction of what, whether interesting or only important, is in the public interest.\ Nothing more, nothing less. Make yourself - heard! Write a Letter to the Editor!! .. . LETTERS SAC Introduce·d To the Editor, As student members of the Student Affairs Council, we would like to introduce our- selves to the Student Body. Our committee formulates and reviews policy for all areas of student life on 9ampus, (i.e. student housing, dining ser- vices, stud~nt center, health services, counseling services, career counseling and placement). We have recently established a committee to consider how the new legal purchasing age of alcohol will affect the students' social life on campus, as well as a committee to review all aspects of residential living at Union. In the future, we will be ad- dressing other issues involving security, residence life, food services, regis. t ration procedures, etc. We're here to represent the students' con- cerns, and we would appreciate and encourage input from any students or organ~ations on campus. Sincerely, Gardner Bolster BoxNo.103 Maureen Coleman BoxNo.455 Jill Tomack Box No. 2171 Kyle Siegal BoxNo.1016 Reza Mozayeni BoxNo • .46 Bookstore Blunders To the Editor: I am writing to express my disappointment in the Campus Bookstore. We have now em- barked on our third week of the academic year, two weeks from mid-term, and still many students have been unable to purchase several required texts for their courses. Possibly, you could substitute . my use of the word dis- appointment\ with \dis- 'illusionment.\ It seems to Picture Questioned To Whom It May Concern~ The picture which ac .. companied \West Germany Up Close\ was less than ap- propriate-unless the sole consideration in deciding upon a picture was shock value. The article pointed out that \the Bitburg incident was in- dicative of the ruling Christian Democratic Party's desire to instill a sense of national pride in a nation where pessimism an1f criticism are popular national pasttimes.\ Mr. Reagan visited West Germany as a good will gesture on behalf of the United States. He did so as an invited guest of Helmut Kohl-whose planning Of the trip's itinerary was as dubious as Concordiensis' editorial choice. Publishing a picture which pervertedly equates our nation's President with Nazi war criminals not only smacks of sensationalistic journalism, but is calously un-Arilerican. JohnS. Morgan Union College Young Republicans All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted py 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis . me that the purpose of a college store is to provide the texts and equipment necessary for students to achieve academic excellence. The whole ideology of a college is based on learning and achievement. How is one supposed to excel in academics if there are no resources available to aid in the process? The whole learning process has been degraded because the bookstore is a profit•motivated organization. Why should the bookstore be concerned with making a profit at the expense of our education? It is truly sad that the .. bookstore's priorities are so· messed up that they can't read between the lines. If a student gets behind because of his own procrastination, then he has no one to blame but himself. This term many students can blame the bookstore. Name Withheld Upon Reouest 1\1/EJE M'FNT T.r'UT IJAp /'lATH -f'f t\NE/'11$ TRY .. J ... .. ..

Page 12 <!Lllltfllrbirnsis FounJt>J al Omon Co/leg~ 1817 --------- -------- TheNewPub With the start of construction on the new College Center, the Dutch Hollow Pub has been temporarily replaced by the Hale House Dining Hall and Lower Hale House Lounge. Breakfast, lunch, and dinner are being served in the dining hall on a cash basis and the lower lounge will be open for nighttime socializing. Hale House does not feel as homey and comfortable aks the former pub; understandably, the set-up looks quite temporary. It is also hard to get used to Hale House as \the new pub\ after recognizing it as a regular dining hall for so long. Nevertheless, it is noted that the Administratiodn is trying to make the best of a tough situation. All new things take some getting used to. And while Ms. pacman may no longer be around, the salad bar still looks pretty good. It is hoped that students will take advantage of the new functions of Hale House lest it go the way of dinner at Old Chapel ... closed due to sparce attendance. Responsibilities jour.nal.ize(jr' n' liz') vt.; to record (transactions, daily events, etc.) in a journal · That's the definition according to Webster's New World Dictionary. This is how we, at Concordiensis, view our responsibilities as a medium of com- munication. We record history. Nothing more, nothing less. History is events. Before we had journalism, we had fine art and literature to record the events of an area. But that was then, this is now. Now we have something called a newspaper. Its purpose; not too far from the purpose of fine art and literature, is to record the events of our era. This holds true for both collegiate and professional newspapers. As an editorial board of a collegiate newspaper, we do not have the power of creation. We do not have control over what events do occur to shape history. According to Walter Lippmann, \Responsible journalism is journalism responsible in the last analysis to the editor's own conviction of what, whether interesting or only important, is in the public interest.\ Nothing more, nothing less. Make yourself - heard! Write a Letter to the Editor!! CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1'985 LETTERS SAC Introduced To the Editor, As student members of the Student Affairs Council, we would like to introduce our- selves to the Student Body. Our committee formulates and reviews policy for all areas of student life on campus, (i.e. student housing,' dining ser- vices, student center, health services, counseling services, career counseling and placement). We have recently established a committee to consider how the new legal purchasing age of alcohol will affect the students' saciallife on campus, as well as a committee to review all aspects af residential living at Union. In the future, we will be ad- dressing other issues invalving security, residence life, .food services, registration procedures, etc. We're here to represent the students' con- cerns, and we would appreciate and encourage input from any students or organizations on campus. Sincerely, Gardner Bolster BoxNo.l03 Maureen Coleman Box No. 455 Jill Tomack Box No. 2171 Kyle Siegal BoxNo.1016 Reza Mozayeni BoxNo.46 Bookstore Blunders To the Editor: I am writing to express my disappointment in the Campus Bookstore. We have now em- barked on our third week of the academic year, two weeks from mid-term, and still many students have been unable to purchase several required texts for their courses. Possibly, you could substitute my use of the word dis- appointment\ with \dis- 'illusionment.\ It seems to Picture Questioned To Whom It May Concern: The picture which ac- companied \West Germany Up Close\ was less than ap- propriate-unless the sole consideration in deciding upon a picture was shock value. The article pointed out that \the Bitburg incident was in- dicative of the ruling Christian Democratic Party's desire to instill a sense of national pride in a nation where pessimism and criticism are popular national pasttimes.\ Mr. Reagan visited West Germany as a good will gesture on behalf of the United States. He did so as an invited guest of Helmut Kohl-whose planning of the trip's itinerary was as dubious as Concordiensis' editorial choice. Publishing a picture which pervertedly equates our nation's President with Nazi war criminals not only smacks of sensationalistic journalism, but is calously un-American. JohnS. Morgan Union College Young Republicans All letters to the editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis me that the purpose of a college store is to provide the texts and equipment necessary for students to achieve academic excellence. The whole ideology of a college is based on learning and achievement. How is one supposed to excel in academics if there are no resources available to aid in the process? The whole learning process has been degraded because the bookstore is a profit-motivated organization. Why should the 11/JW'f) TilE t;f11Pl5 ~ 1'1.!. '? tJit;W,(. .., ___ _ bookstore be concerned with making a profit at the expense of our education? It is truly sad that the bookstore's priorities are so messed up that they can't read between the lines. If a student gets behind because of his own procrastination, then he has no one to blame but himself. This term many students can blame the bookstore. Name Withheld Upon Reauest r!IE.5E MEN'T TMT 84P /\'ATN-14 (NE/'115 TRY -J ... Editors-in-Chief Sarah caldel'im 1 Linda Raffaele News Editors Jan Baran, Maureen Coleman Features Editor Maggie Boitano, Mi$ey Bradley Associate Features Editor LeeAnn.Sclunidt Cv:rn.tXlentary Page Editor . ·. . Greg Fay Arts Editors Debbie Albert, TodDinmlick Campus Page Editors Barbara Doylet Karen Ruga Sports E<litors . JayGrossman, Charlie Slotnik Advettisil'lg Editors Debbie Rose~ Ellen Slipp, Lauren Sobel Assoc. Adv. Editor ·Amy Rosenkrantz · Business Editors Keith Co11klin, Nancy Grundman Photo Editor Dave Gruber Associate Photo Editor Stuart Odell Sports Photo Editors Imzrid Koch. Pat Merritt Subscriptions Editors Bill.Fenstermaker, Daniel Nicoli Staff: David Bruckman, Ted Calinon, Carrie Cerrone. :aob Crandall, Tony Dunaif 1 Colleen Dundon, Fred Eisman, Adam Falk, Dave Gulliver,. Kim Hancock, Andy Hodgkin, Jane IQssel, Beth Levine. Cathy Markes, Joanne McAndrews, Judy Price, Serglo Ranipei:~Otti,.Joy Runyon, Laura Shapiro, Chris Shetidan, Conrad Tatge. · Phot<>\Staff: Mike Bowtnan, Stuart Odell CONCORDlENSlS is published. every Thursday by the student body of Union Colleget Carnegie aatl; Scbnectady, New .. Y~rk 12303; Publica~ions Qf£ic~: . Susquehanna Publiqati~ns, Inc., Box 388; St&tey 1 New York 13008, (6G7) 5$3~3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class m;a.tter every three wetrks. SubscriptiQn rate: $21 per year~ deliv~red anrwlleretn .the United States. CQNtoRIJ ; .· ·•· qribes to the Cotreg~ fress Service (CfS:>~ntht ... ·e·OQUegeNewsJ~ur~u.~CN'Sl•. · #~f~e ·JlP.rt~~~l~J.~1:~15tJ .. ·

... ... .. ' CONCORDIENSIS, October3, 1985 Page 13 Use Your Influence By ALISON BENDER Washington- Union- Israel.. Do these three places have anything in common? Sur- prisingly to some, yes. What happens in Washington to a large part determines what happens in Israel economically. And what happens at Union can determine what happens in Washington. This year, the U.S. gave Israel $4.5 billion in economic aid. in addition, a Free Trade Agreement was signed between the two coun- tries. Both of these issues had to pass Congress first before they could be implemented. In ad- dition, major weapons sales to Jordan and Saudi Arabia are under discussion in Congress at present. So you see that what happens in Washington has a large effect on Israel. Okay, so what? The so what is that although many elected officials support Israel and Israel-oriented legislation, there are also many who do not. These include those fufluenced by Arab lobby groups and U.S. companies wl;w deal in high volumes with Arab countries. In addition, as the· American deficit grows larger, an in- creasing number of' people are demanding that American money be spent in America, to help our people and our economy, rather than overseas in a foreign country. Representatives and Senators hesr this from their constituents and are forced to re_,spond. Maybe next time the Foreign Aid Bill comes up they won't be as generous-with ·aid to Israel. In addition, look at the A WACs sale iQ 1981. It di<!. not pass by much, but enough votes were cast for selling the AWACs to Saudi Arabia so that the deal went through. This does not necessarily mean that those who voted for the sale were anti- Israel, but it does mean that the pro-Israel lobby was not strong enough or vocal enough to persuade the Congressmen to vote against it. What am I getting at? I am trying to convince you that although support for Israel is generally good at this point, it may not stay that way, and even \good\ support is not good enough. I'm sure many of you have been there or have friends or relatives there. I know that I want to see it safe and secure. But unfortunately we all know the reality of the situation. We are not exactly loved by the world, and a good part of Israel's security depends on United States support. U.S. support is demonstrated by Congressional support, and Congressmen are employed by their constituents. We are the constituents. Every one of us has the power to vote. We all have the ability to voice our opinion and show our support for those who support Israel. But we can do more. A developing force in elec- toral politics is the PAC, or Political Action Committee. A PAC is a group of people which supports or opposes candidates for federal office. We as students can form a PAC on campus in order to get our message to Congress. I would like to start a group of people who are committed to action on behalf of Israel. This will give us the ability to he~p influence forthcoming U.S. policy 'decisions regarding Israel. You may think this is not realistic and that PACs are for corporations and people with thousands of dollars, but other student PACs around the country. have been successful. In 1982 in lllinois, Senator Paul Findley, who was known to support the PLO ran against a conservative Republican, Dick Durbin. Findley was a very influential member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and had been in Gengress a long time, so his seat was considered \safe.\ As election day grew closer, however, it became apparent that the race. would be close. A group of students in a pro-Israel PAC from the University of Michigan went to Chicago on election day. and went to neighborhoods where the polls were far .away. They spent the entire day bringing people to the polls so they could vote. -At the end of the day it turned out that Findley had lost by 60 votes, and many people (including Findley) attribute this to the effort made by the students. If they hadn't brought people to the polls then Findley would have won. This was a major victory for the pro-Israel lobby. Through active participation in the political process we can . make a difference. By writing letters, voicing our opinions, or even staging demonstrations, we can ensure that our elected officials are aware of our commitment to Israel's security and that we want them to act accordingly. Returning to my opening statement, this is how what happens at Union can effect what happens in Washington. Do You Care About Your Curriculum . . The Sub-Councfl on the Curriculum Review is sponsoring its Second panel discussion on 11 Pre-Professiohalism\ On Q~tober 9th at 11 :30 A.M. panelists statements wi II be available at Student Activities and at the Library Cir- culation desk on October 7th. All students are encouraged to aHend! \Tastes just like the stuff I used to drink at fraternity parties.\ . - \'\',_;-,, -·~--~··- ..... -~\\~\\··_;._-.-,..,_··._:.·:~\4'9;.. .... _.:(.t-~ ... ~~!l·~~·loG •• COMMENTARIES Don't ·Sell Arnts By JEFF MICHELS This week the Reagan Administration announced that it is preparing to send Congress a bill for the sale of one billion dollars worth of American advanced weapons to Jordan. This sale would consist of ad- vanced fighter planes such as the F-16 or F-20 and an assort- ment of anti-aircraft missiles. Jordan's main justification for this aid is a supposed border threat from Syria. The Administration is still planning to send this package to Congress even though it con- flicts with the Congressional Foreign Aid Authorization Bill for the 1986 fiscal year begin- ning October 1. This foreign aid bill bars the sale of U.S. ad- vanced military weapons to Jordan unless Jordan \is committed to the recognition of Israel and to negotiate promp- tly and directly with Israel.\ As of now not only has Jordan not entered into direct negotiations but still fails to acknowledge United Nations resolution 242 and 338, which recognize Israel's right as a state to exist. In a similar situation in the 1970's, U.S. policy waited until after Egypt entered into direct peace negotiations with Israel before the U.S provided ad- vanced arms to Egypt. This principle must once again be applied in upcoming situations if there is going to be hope for peace. If these arms are sold to Jordan before any form of negotiations are initiated it will remove the incentive for Hussein to begin any form of negotiations. Hussein will now not risk the possible fate f:rom the inter-Arab world that Sadat encountered when Egypt negotiated peace with Israel. An arms sale would further add to Jordan's war-making ability and there by the c'hance of participation in another war. An arms buildup of this sort would undercut Israel's qualitative edge and thus reduce its ability to operate certain high technical aircrafts even in the defense of its own territory. In order for Israel to keep pace with the Jordanian buildup of arms, Israel would require increased aid from the U.S. This would not only add to the arms buildup in the Middle East but it would also have detrimental effects on an already troubled Israeli economy. Israel would be forced to increase its defense spending which is at an exor- bitent high of 30 percent of its total budget. This would also not help Israel's fight with triple- digit inflation. Jordan's claim of a Syrian threat is unsubstantiated. The remote possibility of an attack by Syria does not justify the consequences of a billion dollar arms sale at this present time. Thus a sale of this sort before peaceful overtures are initiated would jeopardize the chance for peace in the immediate future. Pro-Israel PAC Interested? .Tuesday, Oct. 8 7:30 Fox Lounge HOMECOMING '85 All students interested . in he.lping with Homecoming Weekend (October 25-27) are invited to aHend the HOMECOMING MEETING on TUESDAY, GOOBER 8 4:30p.m ... 55 113 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PUBLIC SERVICE ~ §ANNOUNCEMENT:! 2 § § Students can mail ~ ~outgoing, stamped letters ~ §at the Richmond mail room. Just slip your letters into § the ''lntracampus Mail\ § slot. § w;~~tb>~~~~~~-~J

• I CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 Page 13 Use Your Influence By ALISON BENDER Washington-Union-Israel. Do these three places have anything in common? Sur- prisingly to some, yes. What happens in Washington to a large part determines what happens in Israel economically. And what happens at Union can determine what happens in Washington. This year, the U.S. gave Israel $4.5 billion in economic aid. In addition, a Free Trade Agreement was signed between the two coun- tries. Both of these issues had to pass Congress first before they could be implemented. In ad- dition, major weapons sales to Jordan and Saudi Arabia are under discussion in Congress at present. So you see that what happens in Washington has a large effect on Israel. Okay, so what? The so what is that although many elected officials support Israel and Israel-oriented legislation, there are also many who do not. These include those influenced by Arab lobby groups and U.S. companies who deal in high volumes with Arab countries. In addition, as the American deficit grows larger, an in- creasing number of people are demanding that American money be spent in America, to help our people and our economy, rather than overseas in a foreign country. Representatives and Senators hesr this from their constituents and are forced to re.spond. Maybe next time the Foreign Aid Bill comes up they won't be as generous with aid to Israel. In addition, look at the A WACs sale in 1981. It did not pass by much, but enough votes were cast for selling the A WACs to Saudi Arabia se that the deal went through. This does not necessarily mean that those who voted for the sale were anti- Israel, but it does mean that the pro-Israel lobby was not strong enough or vocal enough to persuade the Congressmen to vote against it. What am I getting at? I am trying to convince you that although support for Israel is generally good at this point, it may not stay that way, and even \good\ support is not good enough. I'm sure many of you have been there or have friends or relatives there. I know that I want to see it safe and secure. But unfortunately we all know the reality of the situation. We are not exactly loved by the world, and a good part of Israel's security depends on Unite~ States support. U.S. support is demonstrated by Congressional support, and Congressmen are employed by their constituents. We are the constituents. Every one of us has the power to vote. We all have the ability to voice our opinion and show our support for those who support Israel. But we can do more. A developing force in elec- toral politics is the PAC, or Political Action Committee. A PAC is a group of people which supports or opposes candidates for federal office. We as students can form a PAC on campus in order to get our message to Congress. I would like to start a group of people who are committed to action on behalf of Israel. This will give us the ability to he~p influence forthcoming U.S. policy decisions regarding Israel. You may think this is not realistic and that PACs are for corporations and people with thousands of dollars, but other student PACs around the country. have been successful. In 1982 in illinois, Senator Paul Findley, who was known to support the PLO ran against a conservative Republican, Dick Durbin. Findley was a very influential member of the Foreign Affairs Committee and had been in Congress a long time, so his seat was considered \safe.\ As election day grew closer, however, it became apparent that the race would be clo.se. A group of students in a pro-Israel PAC from the University of Michigan went to Chicago on election day and went to neighborhoods where the polls were far away. They spent the entire day bringing people to the polls so they could vote. At the end of the day it turned out that Findley had lost by 60 votes, and many people (including Findley) attribute this to the effort made by the students. If they hadn't brought people to the polls then Findley would have won. This was a major victory for the pro-Israel lobby. Through active participation in the political process we can make a difference. By writing letters, voicing our opinions, or even staging demonstrations, we can ensure that our elected officials are aware of our commitment to Israel's security and that we want them to act accordingly. Returning to my opening statement, this is how what happens at Union can effect what happens in Washington. Do You Care About Your Curriculum . . The Sub-Council on the Curriculum Review is sponsoring its Second panel discussion on 11 Pre-Professionalism\ On October 9th at 11 :30 A.M. panelists statements wi II be available at Student Activities and at the Library Cir- culation desk on October 7th. All students are encouraged to attend! \Tastes just like the stuff I use<?. to .drink at fraternity parties.\ COMMENTARIES Don't Sell Arllls By JEFF MICHELS This week the Reagan Administration announced that it is preparing to send Congress a bill for the sale of one billion dollars worth of American advanced weapons to Jordan. This sale would consist of ad- vanced fighter planes such as the F-16 or F-20 and an assort- ment of anti-aircraft missiles. Jordan's main justification for this aid is a supposed border threat from Syria. The Administration is still planning to send this package to Congress even though it con- flicts with the Congressional Foreign Aid Authorization Bill for the 1986 fiscal year begin- ning October 1. This foreign aid bill bars the sale of U.S. ad- vanced military weapons to Jordan unless Jordan \is committed to the recognition of Israel and to negotiate promp- tly and directly with Israel.\ As of now not only has Jordan not entered into direct negotiations but still fails to acknowledge United Nations resolution 242 and 338, which recognize Israel's right as a state to exist. In a similar situation in the 1970's, U.S. policy waited until after Egypt entered into direct peace negotiations with Israel before the U.S provided ad- vanced arms to Egypt. This principle must once again be applied in upcoming situations if there is going to be hope for peace. If these arms are sold to Jordan before any form of negotiations are initiated it will remove the incentive for Hussein to begin any form of negotiations. Hussein will now not risk the possible fate from the inter-Arab world that Sadat encountered when Egypt negotiated peace with Israel. An arms sale would further add to Jordan's war-making ability and there by the chance of participation in another war. An arms buildup of this sort would undercut Israel's qualitative edge and thus reduce its ability tc. operate certain high technical aircrafts even in the defense or its own territory. In order for Israel to keep pace with the J ')rdanian buildup of arms, Israel would require increased aid from the U.S. This would not only add to the arms buildup in the Middle East but it would also have detrimental effects on an already troubled Israeli economy. Israel would be forced to increase its defense spending which is at an exor- bitent high of 30 percent of its total budget. This would also not help Israel's fight with triple- digit inflation. Jordan's claim of a Syrian threat is unsubstantiated. The remote possibility of an attack by Syria does not justify the consequences of a billion dollar arms sale at this present time. Thus a sale of this sort before peaceful overtures are initiated would jeopardize the chance for peace in the immediate future. Pro-Israel PAC Interested? § § t Tuesday. Oct. 8 7:30 Fox Lounge HOMECOMING '85 All students interested in helping with Homecoming Weekend (October 25-27) are invited to attend the HOMECOMING MEETING on TUESDAY, OCTOBER 8 4:30 p.,m. - SS 113 ANNOUNCEMENT: Students can ~outgoing, stamped letters §at the Richmond mail room. ,h

I ,I Page14 CONCORDIENSIS, Octuber 3, 1985 THE ARTS The cast of \Noises Off\ poses as characters of a play wi.thin aplay. Upbeat Soul By MATTHEWSQUffiES Contri.butor 'Nois.es Off' at Proctor's The Untouchables ... what a way to kick off a concert. From the moment they leapt on .stage they rocked the house with their punchy tones of upbeat soul-and R-n-B. A seven~piece band from Los Angeles, they may have surprised some people with British two tone image. Indeed one of the producers on their current album, \Wild Child,\ is Specials and Two tone Man Jerry Dammers who also produced that wacky tune \Free Yourself.\ Their dancing on ~tage was sup~rb; Big Jerry takmg the forefront in shades and trilby with his skanking ~tomp. Those who Weren't on their feet by the time they rounded off with ''Free Yourself\ and \I Spy for the F.B.I.\ must either have a serious hearing problem or have been stuck to their seats. Oh Baby,\ and \Red Red Wine.\ Who wanted Red wine?! Astro. certainly didil't need any as he leapt around the stage crying out to the audience in Rastafarian tongue. It is in- credible to think that before 1978 none of the original band could play the instruments which they play so well today. Four of the present line up formed UB40 in 1978 when unemployed. All were bom, bred and schooled together in central Birmingham, and after deciding to form a band, spent the first ~ix months in a cellar learning to play the instruments that they had each selected. It was while supporting 'the Pretenders on their British tour in 1980 that UB40 released their first single \Food for Thought.\ It was a shame that Chrissy couldn't make it to sing \I Got You Babe,\ but Ali didn't do too bad a job. There was some great saxophone play by Brian Travers but was \Earl 'the Dude with the cool haircut' on bass smoking a joint or what? ... and what was that mushroom cloud hanging over· the keyboards on the left of the stage? Anyone who saw UB afterwards would have realized that it didn't have anything to do with the special effects! \When all aroWld you is strife and uncertainty, there's nothing like a plate of sardines.\ Hardly the maxim your grandmother would preach to you, but that line seems to be the main moral in Noises Off, a hilarious British comedy that played Proctor's Theater last week. Noises Off is a play within a play, about. an inept acting troupe who is trying to put on a sex farce called Nothing On. All three acts of Noises Off are actually the same first act from Nothing On, viewed from dif- ferent perspectives. The comedy comes from the part- ner-swapping, love-hate relationships of the actors in the company, and the cruel tricks they play on each other. In the fir.st act, the slowest of the three, the audience gets the set up of the comedy-the personal idiosyncracies of each character, who's sleeping with whom-and gets a general idea of what the first act is supposed to be like. The second act, which is the most satisfying comedic ally, shows the action from backstage, where each actor is fighting with the others, physically beating each other, while frantically trying to be on I time for Nothing On.'s numerous entrances and exits. By the third act, a \typical\ per- formance from late in the show's run, the stage has become a hysterical battlefield, with every man for himself and the play, a hopeless shambles. Noises Off is an extremely funny and fast-paced comedy that is nearly impossible to dislike. Its brilliant com- bination of quick physical humor and abundance of props (you'll never look at sardines again in quite the same way) with witty one-liners and ridiculous characters is so well done that there is almost always something going on onstage to laugh about. The acting and overall production-and this is not an easy play to stage-was exceptionally good for a touring company; not quite as good as the Broadway version, but favorably comparable. The play did have its faUlts, though. The biggest is tllat since so much of the humor is physical (especially Act II where most· of the action is mimed slapstick) the play becomes a giant act of staging, instead of acting. Each actor has to time his movements ATTENTION ALL FORMER TERMS ABROAD PARTICIPANTS THE HOMECOMING COMMinEE STILL NEEDS YOUR PICTURES!! Help us celebrate the 50th an- niversary of Terms Abroad at Union. Please write your name and box number on the back of your prints and give them to Sharon in the Alumni Office at Lamont House. precisely, and this kind of choreography adds a rigidness to the natural flow of events. Another problem stems from the fact that in spots, the comedy is so sprawling one can scarcely take in all that is happening on stage. At times it's as though Noises Off may be too witty for . its own good. That's an awfully rare af- fliction, though, and the best cure I can think of for it is to simply see the play again. UB40 followed with their more mellow, distinctive dance ·reggae. Ali Campbell, warbling out in normal style, and brother' Robin, backing up on vocals, both used their characteristic left hand guitar play. Despite the rumor that they'd all got thoroughly stoned ·the night before, the songs \Tyler\ and \One in Ten,\ with their radical lyrics, were performed brilliantly, as were \Please Don't Make Me Cry,\ \Cherry Everyone enjoyed UB40, but for me the Untouchables stole the show with their sheer energy and zany performance. Bloodm~bile at Union Oct. 3-4 Fromll-5 SPANISH TABLE in Fox Lounge Call Mrs. Marra at 370-6115 for more information. Meets Mondays for Lunch at 12:30 -Hale House- NEW THIS FALL! UNION COLLEGE FALL SPECIALS . Restaurant and Bar Mondays ALL DOMESTIC BEER Tuesdays ALL DRAFT BEER FREE Wednesdays·CHICKEN WINGS Thursdays ICED TEAS Fridays MIXED HOUSE DRINKS Saturdays LADY'S NIGHT MICHELOBS CAll Specials begin at B p.m. and End at 12 Midnight) . 501 Hattie Street, Schenect'ady {518) 393-.0594 (one block from campus> $1.00 $3.00 2 FOR 1 $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 Intenmtional Relations Club Meeting Tonight 7:00p.m. • SS 110 PHONES: 372-7270 370-373!5 I PIZZERIA I HOME STYLE PIZZA COA. UNION STREET 81 VAN ANTWERP RC, FI!ATUAINGI OACEAS TO TAKE OUT 80H~NECTACY, N.Y. . : .. .

.. .. ' J CONCORIJIENSIS, October 3, 1985 Page 15 THE ARTS A Radioactive Sting October \y JOY RUNYON staff In a time wben many rock \stars.\ stay within the rigid confines of the rock-n-.roll genre in order to maintain a secure identity, there are some \stars\ who do dare to challenge themselves and those boun- daries. Gordon -Matthew Sumner, a.k.a. Sting, is a risk-taker. Just as his safety .net, The Police, was achieving immense success to the tune of one gold and four platinum albums, Sting grew restless. He sought to break out of the security offered him by The Police - if only temporarily - and he acted on that desire. His recent solo effort, \The Dream of the Blue Turles,\ spawned a crackerjack jazz- based ensemble that defied any labels. Before knowing how well-received his self-initiated genre of music would be, Sting chose to take his show on the road, playing auditoriums from Paris to Boston. His show at New York City's Radio City Music Hall con- firmed the fact that Sting remains . a major innovative force in the music world. The concert was not as well-mixed as it could have been; yet Sting's stage presence was very compelling, and compensated . for the mixing deficiencies. Sting fans, rock fans, jazz fans, and eclectic fans arrived in full force despite Hurricane Gloria's dire menacing. The risk was worth it .. Much of the September 27th concert connisted of im- provisational work by Sting on guitar and Synclavier, Branford Marsalis on saxophone and assorted percussion, Omar Hakim on drums, Kenny · Kirkland on keyboards, Darryl Jones on bass, and Dollette McDonald and Janice Pen- darvis on backing vocals. They jitterbugged through \If You Love Someone (Set Them Free)\ and literally jazzed up The Police staple \Every Breath You Take.\ The \special effects\ were rather ordinary, yet packed some power because they revolved around such an l;lX- traordinary man and his tightly knit ensemble. Laser beams, a rock concert standard, spun and tilted around the proscenium- dominated music hall; smoke machines flooded the stage-at one point obscuring the per- formers. Still, Sting was called back for three encores by the audience, which seemed to have imbibed excessive quantities of caffeine (or some stimulant) before the concert. All told, Sting and his ensemble were on stage in excess of two hours: a fair amount, considering \The Dream of the Blue Turles\ is a 45-minute album. · Besides material from his recently released album, Sting played Police material (in- cluding \Demolition Man,\ \Roxanne and a totally solo version of \Message in a Bot- tle\ which emoted left and right), unreleased material (such as \Bring on the Night\) and some music he wrote for lBrinstone and Treacle!_, a film in which he starred (\You Know, l Had the Strangest Dream\). The most disagreeable part of the concert was the audience itself. When introducing the sedate, morose \Moon Over Bourbon Street,'' Sting im- plored the audience, \This is a quiet song, so I need you to be quiet while I sing it.\ Granted, it may have been an egotistical thing to ask of an audience who obviously adored him; but it was hardly considerate when his request was met by their screaming like Beatlemaniacs. At the most poignant parts of the song, the mood was broken by 13•year-olds screaming, ''I love you!\ and ''I want to have your baby!'' Sting berated them witq a perturbed look and a dismissing wave of his hand. The lovelorn teeny-boppers were · most content when he performed the songs from \Blue Turtles\ which received the most ·airplay, \Fortress Around Your Heart\ and \If You Love Somebody, Set Them Free.\ It was obvious that many people were there to hear those songs, for the same people whose parents lifted their curfew especially for the concert sat disinterestedly when the band broke into un- bridled jazz improvisations of lesser-known pieces. Also ap- parent was the mutual ob- servation of audience factions. Those who wished to hear the impressive talent looked in amusement at those who came to see the attractive golden boy and hear top-40 material. The latter looked at the former as though the former were insane for not jumping around and screaming and crying for the demi-god. However, the diversity of the audience did serve to emphasize the eclec- ticism of Sting the performer. Much of the rock-n-roll press in the past few months has been devoted to Sting, and sometimes even to his im- mensely talented band, when the press is feeling generous. These magazines have turned off many would-be fans by touting Sting as the Renaissance man of the 80s. The writers choose the labels; Sting pays the price for receiving . them. , Some people have declared their distaste for Sting because he is overrated by these self-purported \jour- nalists.\ In a sense, Sting is indeed a Renaissance man: Not only does he sing (obviously), but he also acts admirably although he's received minimal training, he writes his own music and lyrics, he draws and photographs, and he ex- periments with a diversity of non-rock instruments. All of this recent publicity certainly leaves great potential for the nurturance of Sting's ego. Yet his ego seemed rather tame and subdued on stage last Friday, as he was performing with musicians of equal or greater talent. No inferiority was imposed by Sting onto any VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENEC,TADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 of the band members. There seemed to be a great deal of trust happening on stage; when one of the ensemble decided to try something obviously new, the others followed in hot pursuit and the result was real music. Sting observed and acted along with them. Everyone had ample op- portunity to invent, and they also had time to showcase their talents in their own private limelight. Almost every effect of the concert came off well; the band and Sting reeked of success as they pushed their limits for the pure joy of pushing their limits. Whether or not Sting reunites with The Police is still a question, but his excursion into the world of solo has served to prove his success singularly, and has made it apparent that Sting's aptitude for music transcends· labels and trends. Events October 8th-11th-A Chorus Line, Proctor's Theatre 8 p.m. October 9th-supertramp & The Motels, R.P.I. Fieldhouse, 8 p.D1. . October 12th-Faust; Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 13th-An Evening With Victor Borge, Schenectady City Hall. October 15th-Howard Jones, R.P.I. Fieldhouse, 8 p.m. October 19th-8pyro Gyra, Palace Theater, 8 p.m.; The Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem; Reunion Concert, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 25th-Ray Charles, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. October 26th-Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. October 26th-Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m.; A Salute To Gershwin, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 27th-Allen Mllls Halloween Organ Concert, Proctor's Theater, 3 p.m. October 29th-Royal Winnepeg Ballet, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 31st-Vienna Symphony Orchestra, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. SUPERTRRmP ! '- .... WITH SPECIAL GUESTS: THE MoTELS COMING TO THE RPI FIELDHOUSE WED., OCT. 9 AT 8:00 TICKETS ON SALE NOW MAR.K RUST wi-ll be , performing in Hale House Lower Lounge on Fri~ay, October 4 at 9:00p.m. Pastries and c.offee available. Cost· is $1.50 per person

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985. FELLOWSHIPS AND INTERNSHIPS -Three-year graduate . -The Metropolitan Museum of fellowships in science and · Art offers summer and engineering fields are offered academic year internships. The by the National Science program is designed for Foundation. Applicants must be students interested in museum U.S. citizens who have not studies. It provides career received an advanced degree in training and academic credit 1986-87 in memory of Dr. Robert H. Goddard, America's rocket pioneer. The applicant must be at least a junior and have the intention of pursuing .un- dergraduate or graduate studies in science or engineering during 1986-87. Deadline is January 17, 1986 for the 1986-87 academic year. -The American Symphony Orchestra League is looking for students for its Orchestra Management F.ellowship Program. The program com- science or engineering. may be arranged. Application deadline is bines love of music, management, and com- mWlication skills. Application deadline 1s November 12, 1985. -The New York State Assembly Intern program of- fers two programs in Albany. The Session Intern Program gives college students a chance to work in the state govern• ment. The Graduate Scholars Program is a full-time research position with Assembly leaders. Deadline is October 25, · 1985. There will be an information session on October 1, 1:00 p.m., in · the Career Development Center. . -The New York State Senate Session Assistants Program is intended for students interested in state government. Applicants -must be a resident citizen of New York State, and attending a New York University. Application deadline is October 14. 1985. -The Metropolitan Museum of Art offers graduate fellowships to outstanding students in the fields of Greek and Roman art of fine arts. Application deadlin~ is November 22, 1985. November 15, 1985. -Japan's Ministry of Education Funds offers up to 150 English Teaching Assistanships in Japan. Assistants will be involved in classroom duties as well as social obligation. Foreign language study, English skllls, and an interest in Japan is needed. ·The Landmark Soeiety of Western New York offers a nine-month internship position for college graduates. Priority will be given to those interested in history, art history, fine arts, horticulture, or museology. A stipend is provided. -The Statewide Youth Advocacy offers three in- ternships for students inm terested in child welfare and public policy. It is a six month program based in Rochester with a small stipend provided. Research areas may be in youth employment, health care, welfare benefits, and aftercare. ·The American Academy in Rome offers fellowships for study of the fine arts and humanities in Rome. The program provides an annual stipend, travel allowance, room, studio, and most meals. FINANCIAL AID ~The Scholarship Research Institute of Washington, D.C. is offering (3) $1000 scholarships~ Applicants must meet the following minimum criteria: undergraduate, full time student, GPA of 2.0 or above. For application and in- formation, students should send a self addressed stamped en- velope to: Scholarship Research Institute, P.O. Box 50157, Washington, DC 20004. The deadline for application is December 16, 1985. :-International Computer Programs, Inc. announce a scholarship up to $5000 for students enrolled in a computer science or computer technology program. Sophomores or juniors with at least a \B\ GPA who demonstrate a need of financial assistance should apply by November 15, 1985 for the 1986-1987 academic year. Contact Magda Mininberg, Assistant Director of Financial Aid for more information. -The Nation~! Space Club will award a $7,500 scholarship for -ZONTA Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awards in the amotint of $5000 will be. made to thirty women studying in an aerospace related field on the graduate level. Deadline: December 31, 1985 for the 1986- 87 academic year. -National Science FoundatiQn graduate and minority fellowships in the amount of an $11,000 stipend and a $6000 cost- of-education allowance open to persons at or near the beginning of their graduate study in the science fields. Deadline: November 15, 1985 for the 1986- 87 academic year. More information available in the Financial Aid Office. Contact Magda M. Mininberg, Assistant Director. -The American Concrete Institue will award three $2,000 Harry F. Thomson Scholarship Awards and two ACI Fellowship Awards for graduate study in the field of concrete for the.1986- 87 academic year. Application - deadline is January 15, 1986. Application and information . --- .... ~- -. --·--· . ~r-· ------:-:-=::~ W~<LL I w'ltAT A~£ y'N 60IN6 TO DO. rouR If 111~ t-\Y 1-MNDS? r'I> Lll<£ A I\ITC.rlt~. OF BEt.!(.! I s~P.RY- NO PITCH:t.R S! NE.W R\JLE. n!UJ r'LL HAVE T'JO c.uf5 oF gn,.R! f YOU Cf;'r/ o~LY 8UY FoR 1 youRs:ELf. \ An ad hoc tenure committee has been ap- pointed to investigate, evaluate, and report on the tenurability of Ekrani Hass·ib, Assistant Professor of Electrical Engineering. Committee members are Professors Aubrey (M.E.), Williams (C.S.-E.E.), Wilson (F.A.) and Schaefer (Chern), chairman. Anyone who has relevant information is urged to convey the testimony to the committee in writing or by contacting Professor Schaefer to arrange an · interview. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to evaluate the tenurabHity of Prof. Marc Dawson of the History Department. The committee consists of Prof. Robert Wells (History}, Prof. Byron Nichols (Pol. Science) 1 Prof. Christina Sorum (Classics), and Prof. George Butterstein- Chairperson ('Biology). The committee would welcome any comments concerning the can- didate's qualifications in teaching and scholarship from any member of the college community. l·nformation may be provided to any member of the committee or address your comments to Prof. Butterstein, Biology Department I ex. 6028. au-r: w~ DOl-JT 5ELL c(.).f'.S r ?\tJYtJIW'. I SOI(I<'Y- :rusT ON£ HAND/ AIJD Sf'Rf..l\9 yovrz . FIN GER.S! f I AnENTIONI AnENTIONI TUTORS NEEDED TUTORS NEEDED DO YOU FEEL QUALIFIED ENOUGH TO TUTOR OTHER AND EARN EXTRA $$$ WHILE DOING· IT? If so, the AOP Tutoring Service Needs You!! I Applications are Now Being Accepted for ALL Subiect Areas. For further information, Please see: Wanda Torres AOP Office Bailey Hall Roo• 1 01 is available from Magda Mininberg, Assistant Director, Financial Aid Office. CLUB NEWS VIsit to Monastery- Thursday, October 3, 3~ p.m.: for prayer and reflection at Monastery · of St. Teresa of Jesus, 428 Dunae Street. Con-: tact Sr. Joan or call 37o-6087 If you a))e interested in visiting. this Monastery of Discalced Carmelites and praying with the Cloistered Sisters at 4:30 p.m. Newman Buffet Supper- Sunday, October 6 from 4:30 - 6:30 p.m. at St. John the Evang~list Rectory for Union Faculty, staff & students and their families. Please respond to 370-6087 by Friday, October 4. : Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, October 7 at 8 p.m. in: second floor Conference R~orn of Whitaker House. .. Newman Folk Gro.up-All singers and misicians in- terested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Jewish Stwfent Union presents Prof. Stephen Berk, . speaking this Friday in the Kosher Kitchen. Sabbath Services are at 5: 30 p.m., dinner begins at 6:00 and Prof . will speak after dinner. *** Only 255 Days Until Graduation! *** WANTED Writers Personal Forms are available at tile Box Office in Old _Chapel. Cost is 25~·. All personals are due · .. Monday night preceeding publ- ication. • (

da at of .. 30 - 4. : ll ' e . , • CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 Page 17 -H- E'LP· W' _.N.IT'. 'E·V_ ~ { Looking for student-weekend ;. ~====.n==l= J==--= work, Fri. eve. 5--9 Sat. noon - 7, · ~-, Sun. 8-6 - 25-26 hours. Also . Wanted ~edi~tely stud~nt possible evening work- counter mterested m mowmg, cleanmg work - giving change for up ~eaves on 3 acres of_Iand-:has laundromat, accepting and mling mower. Locat10n-L1shC\ handing out dry cleaning or- Kill Road, Schenectady. $5.oo- ders. Location Albany St. just hr. Please contact Catherine off crosstown east, Woodlawn Carr at 785-9056 (h) or 785-2352 area. Please contact 37D-1055. (w). Ask for Ralph (8-5) Student to do garden work 10 hrs. a wk. Walking distance of campus. Please contact 370-3322 Sam Ullinanti. The Ninth Annual Antiques and Collectibles Flea Market will be held at The Niskayuna Re~ormed Church on the Troy- Schenectady Road Saturday, October 5, from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The church is located at 3041 the Troy-Schenectady Road (Route 7 - 4 miles west of the Northway exit). Volunteers needed - Teresian House Nursing Home, ·200 Washington Avenue Extension, Albany, New York, has need of many generous people of any age and interest. Please contact Sister Eiias, Volunteer Student to clean 3 nights wk. - 9 hrs. wk. -M. W.Fri. Beginning Oct. 9th. Minimum wage. Catholic Family Services on Union St. next to St. John's Church 372-5667. Student needed for CLA.SS!F[EDS: · · · Director, at 456-2000. ;;:==========. :;;~::;,. . $60.00 per hundred paid for babysitting Sunday mornings 10:45 a.m. -12:15 p.m. for young children at local church - walking distance from campus. $5.0()-hr. Contact Sandra Stake at (w) 370-6174 or (h) 377-2440. Freshman Records are on sale in the Student Affairs Office in Whitaker House (while supply lasts) for $7.50 a copy. rernailing letters from horne! Send self-addressed, stamped . envelope for information- application to: Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, N.J. 07203. The film committee presents on 1D-4-6 H2010\ at 7, 9, 11 and on 10~9 \Arsenic and Old Lace\ at 7, 9, 11 in SS016. Tickets $1.00. PERSONALS. Hey lady don't hybernate on 4th floor North! We need to get out from under the academics! ~ Let's go out and party this weekend. -Your Former Roommate Hey Steph-We're not getting wet!! It was fun!! GS, We like guys with no panty lines! ! ! ! LJ&MH W, Get any new male-order catalogues lately? MH If you have walked by the Sukkah with a \heavy hand\ some people would like to meet you at the Tuesday party. Concordy Needs Writers! Submit name, Box# and phone to Box 2577. CLARIFY YOUR CAREER GOALS FIND OUT WHAT COURSES TO TAKE DISCOVER W~AT JOBS ARE AVAILABLE WRUC 89.7 FM is finally back on· the air. We will be broadcasting • • mUSIC 1m-· BROWSE THROUGH £XH1BITS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MEET REPRESENTATIVES OF ~ATIONAL AND LOCAL BUSINESS INDUSTRY AND GOVERNM~NT ' SPEAK WITH PEOPLE FROM DIFFERENT CAREER AREAS o·ctober 9 tt:00-4:30 Union College Field House mediately follow- ing the football broadcast this Saturday, Oc- tober 5th. Tune in for the game at 12:30 p.m. and keep listening. DJ's: ALL STUDENTS, FRESHMEN THROUGH GRADUATES, ARE WELCOME! FOR INFORMATION: UNION COLLEGE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER, 370-6176 Here. he 1~ CICJai11: Ci1JP. . LuddiVYjfow ~~ (5U . C11utfv.S O'Y/q V' Jl.i?4o/ .fc> kv.e ~ 117 c/tu / '\...U1Vi 1 1j.,~~.10 · ltl4tf • / WoooDDW! Chec~ ou-r ~e (;JY. IIJOIHevf .. ty~s_l ._...01 I CH,p ~II ,.,~~ . /t}ocJ:: vp -roo:... N!Gf/T. I '{ef aMofW:v e.J/.e~IMtj of g:c.ia/ cal4~ ~ . aud ad~ufvr-:e IS \::::;::/ th sfoY.e .fr:>~ -f~/s o/, 1/oy $J~Ufe! I &uta ~e JAtyse/tf ~- LET'S GO *METS* Get ~eady to do your shows. SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING MAJORS: TAKE OUT INSURANCE NOW How about an \insurance\ policy that your science or engineering degree will really be used? It would be nice. Especially considering the work you put into such a degree. The Air Force will use your talents. We have openings for young men and women majoring in selected science and engineering academic fields ... like Aeronautical, Aerospace, General and Elec· !rica! Engineering, Mathematics, Physics and Computer Technology. and many more. One way to get into these openings is through Air Force ROTC. Our AFROTC scholarship can heiR you financially so you can concentrate on getting your degree. AFROTC is a great opportunity to help yourself through college, and the Air Force is a great opportunity to really use what you learn. Look into the Air Force ROTC program at your campus. It's good insurance . Capt D C Brashares RPI - Air Force ROTC Troy NY 12180-3590 (518) 266-6236 B.OTC Gateway to a greotwoy of life. ·

' ( Page 18 GOOD HlR CON_CORDIENSIS, October 3, 1985 SPORTS CENTER m.aking things happen . . Offering you • 27 Stations of Nautilus • Free Weights • Pro Star Super Hack Sled • Team Prograrns • Rehabilitative Exercise· Programs • Shape-up & Fitness Programs . • Strength & Conditioning Program~ • 3-12 Month Memberships ONE FREE TRIAL SESSION Call for your appointment today • Jazzercise Let OTR Sports Center Desiqn (518) 393-5032 A personal program to fit you 204 So. Ten Broeck St., Scotia, N.Y. *Student Specials* Come In - Try Our Pizza! ·Breakfast .. Lunch -Dinner ON ALL 8-12-24 CUT PIZZA With This Coupon Expires Dec. 30 r--CALL US: tR£' DELIVERY ~-------------~----------~--------------~ TEL.#J46•J155- .. - 403 UN\ON ST.- - ~ - l\leRR \JN \ON CoLLeG-E:.- ~ Try Our Pastas, Calzones Hot_& Cold Italian Subs) Buffalo Chicken Wings UNION BEVERAGE CORP. Y2 KEG BUSCH $27.50 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McDonalds) HOURS: MON. thru. SAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to S p.m. 382 -5968 We reaerve the right to limit quantities. Not responsible for typographical errors. Y2 KEG BUD $33.00 OPEN FOR BUSINESS Watch For Our Grand Opening Coming Soon/ HEINEKEN LIGHT OR DARK DRAFT BEER Halves & Quarters Available. Also Ice! Plenty of Free Parking PIELS EXPORT 5.39c ... BUD EXPORTS 10.39c.,. MILLER EXPORTS 9.99c ... - Let us be your 11 Total Salon\ - - Haircut I Design Waxing Perms Make-Up Colour laody Wraps · Facials Nail Lengthening 15% Discount with Union ID card and 10% ·Discount with Ad Offer expires Oct. 10 Our designers have been trained by SASSOON of London and J.INGLES, N. Y .C. ~re MtJin Mft~N't; 1'1~-n!NO:Z .. / Gooding Skin Systems 37 4-0736 · 322 State St.,-$chenectady, N.Y. 12305 ' ' .. : 'o .. c~. r .~ •I _, ..

.. . , .• CONCORDIENSIS, October 3, i985 Page 19 Magee Records 1 OOth V1ctory ByCPSIS · Head soccer coach Bob Magee recorded his lOOth career coaching victory last Wednesday as the Dutchmen trorutced Cortland St. lH. Magee, in · his 13th year of coaching Union soccer, has a refreshing, healthy attitude to·ward college sports. \Of course I find it more pleasurable to win, but there is a . tremendous feeling of satisfaction when you see your te4In put forth a good effort, even if it is in a losing cause\ said coach Magee. Losing is not something Coach Magee has been familiar with. The past two seasons the Dutchmen have qualified for the N.C.A.A. playoffs. This season. the team is 4-0. Magee attributes the success of this year's squad to '~:having good ballplayers that play well together and respect · each other.\ Two years ago Magee had 12 freshmen on the team who are presently juniors, and are the leaders of the team which boasts only one senior, captain Grant Foreman. Magee stresses to his players that they take one game at a time. \The kids understand they must be up for every game no matter how weak the op- ponent.\ Last year after up- setting top ranked Brandeis they were beaten the next game by a weak R. P .I. squad. Magee realizes the difficulties -of keeping a team consistent and · healthy throughout a 16 game season, and therefore plays as many people as possible, does not try to run up the score, and alternates John Laduke and Al Trageser in goal. Although the Dutchmen are 4- 0, a winning season is not a sure thing. \We've got a tough road to tr;:tvel. The kids have gained a lot of confidence early, but now we get into the meat of the schedule. When asked what his goal was for the season, Magee replied \to be better than last year's team.\ One could assume that means Magee hopes for a third consecutive trip to the N:C.A.A. SPORTS Athlete of the Week By JAY GROSSMAN Sophomore Mike Gargiulo had his best game ever last week as he rushed for touch- downs of one, three. and 12 yards led the Dutchmen to a 46-7 win over the Colby Mules. The 6'0, 175 pound quarterback has stepped right into the starting role replacing Dan Stewart and seems to have filled his shoes quite well. His passing statistics include 23 completions in 50 attempts for 314 total yards', He averages 104 yards passing per game. Gargiulo is also fourth in rushing on the Union squad with 76 total yards and averaging 2.9 yards per carry. In the game against Colby, Gargiulo com- pleted eight of 16 passes for 95 yards, including a 17 yard scoring toss t(:). sophomore Jim LaFrance. Gargiulo seems well poised and in control of the offense and has been a big part of Union's 3-Q start. His ex- cellent performance earn~d him a spot on the ECAC's weekly \honor roll.\ Congratulations to Mike Gargiulo, a managerial economics m~jor from Yorktown, NY, as this week's athlete of the week. Mike Gargiulo 0 0 s::; 0.. 0 playoffs. However, after being 8 ' ranked-number 2 in New York T D It 5K R ~tate and number 7 nation~lly r 1- e a s un m pre-season polls, Magee JUSt \ Men's Soccer Coach Bob Magee has led his team to a 4-0.start. might have his eyes on a national title. WRUC Sports is back as THE DUTCH.MEN SPORT-S ,_NETWORK UNION DUTCHMEN FOOTBALL vs. W .P.I. Engineers Saturday, Sept. 28 game-time- 1:30 • Pre:game -1:00 11 COuntdown to Touchdown'' Football Preview Show -12:30 fhe Capital District's Leader in Sports is Bigger and Better than ever. WRUC 89.7 FM and \THE DUTCHMEN SPORTS NETWORK\ LOANS ARRANGED: Debt consolidation business, expansion, mortgages, venture capital, aircraft and marine financing, farm and agricultural, trucking, theatrical productions - stage - screen - ·Tv video, educational, inventions, franchises, m ining,oi I drilling, casino and· enterta·inment palaces, hotels, motels, . ranches/ or for any sound purpose in- cluding arbitrage lending and Barter trading. $1 Billion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs~ or if in a hurry-call 203-848-8552 • BATES BUSINESS CONSULTANTS 123 Maple Ave., P.O. Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address liBATFIN\ We are the on,ly money service in the world (that we know pf) that serves borrowers 24 hours per day (8 p.m.- 9 a .. m. recorded service) 365 days a year. 1 f you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or call Bafes/Sorrentino fo'r details. Tri-Delta held its 3rd annual Sk run for children's cancer last Sunday, Sept. 29, at Central Park. The good weather and high spirits made this race enjoyable as well as profitable. Over $600 was raised and will be donated to the Leukemia Society of America to help fight children's cander. Tri-Delta would like to congratulate Ed Hart, who finished 1st with a time of 16:38. Winners of other categories included Kathleen Taylor, Kark Zimmermann, Susan Niefield, Ted Bick, and Barbara Boyer. Tri-Delta would also like to thank all those who contributed to this good cause. We hope to see you all again next year! The women's Soccer team, shown here, battling Mount Holyoke stands at a 2-3 record. ' The women's Rugby team lost their first game of the season to Potsdam. ihe lMm faces southern Connecticut this Saturday on the opposition's home field.

Page20 CONCORDIENSIS; October3; 1985 SPORT Gridders Dump Colby By TED CANNON Sports Staff Union's football juggernaut was too explosive for Colby to handle· last Saturday. The Dutchmen combined their fierce defense with an ever- improving, opportunistic of- fense to disarm Colby 46-7. Senior defensive end Pete Corkery, just as he did last week, set the tone for the game by dropping the Colby quar- terback for an 11-yard loss on the very first play of the game. Defense was to dictate this game for Union, as Colby could not budge, and turnovers led to several Union scores. Junior defensive back Alex Rita set up Union's first points with an interception on Colby's third offensive play. Eleven plays later junior tailback Todd Walker dashed in from one yard out. Freshman Tim Mclees set up Union's second score with a fumble recovery on Colby's 17. One play later sophomore quarterback Mike Gargiulo hit classmate Jim LaFrance for six points. While Union's defense, which only gave up 37 yards in total .offense on the day, held solid, Gargiulo stole the show for the remainder of the half. Gargiulo, who scooted for close to 100 yards on the day, scored con- secutive T.D.'s on runs of one, three, and 12 yards to give the Dutchmen a 32-Q half-time edge. With the game well in hand, some rookies handled the second half offense. Freshman tailback Steve Hayes scored from thr-ee yards out in the fourth quarter. Fre~hman quarterback Ed O'Day, who looked very impressive throwing the ball for 92 second half yards, ran in a score from two yards out to produce the 46~ 7 final. Union's defense, which has been nothing less than awesome, has yet to allow a single-Point to be scored on it in three games. Colby's points came on a second half in- terception· return for a touch- down. Union's first \tester\ should be this Saturday as the Dut- chmen play host to the WPI Engineers. The Engineers are 2-1 and hungry to avenge last year's highly publicized defeat at the hands of the Dutchmen. Senior flanker Pete Cohan and .sophomore fullback Phil Horn show the blocking ability of Union's offense last week in thei.r victory over Rochester. This week the Dutchmen were again victorious. GARNET SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (3;0) Union 46 Colby 7 MEN'S SOCCER (4-0) Union 6 Hamilton 1 Union 2 Binghamton 0 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL (6-4) U11.ion 15~1, 10·15, 15-11 New Paltz Soccer Is Unbeaten at 4-0 WOMEN'S TENNIS (0-4) Vassar 7 Union 2 Fl ELD HOCKEY (6-1-1) ByADAMFALK and BOB CRANDALL Sports Staff The Dutchmen booterg- ex- tended their win streak to four by defeating Hamilton and Binghamton. Union is currently ranked seventh in the nation, and should not be hurt bv last week's perfonnance. Oni::e again Union struggled to capture the first goal, but after about thirty minutes of the first half, Steve Hartman scored his fourth goal of the season to break the ice. Shortly after, Bob Crandall answered with Union's second goal of the game. This proved to be all the Dutchmen needed, as they cruised on to a 6-1 victory. Freshman striker Rich Engdal continued to show his worth by netting his second goal of t1 .e season. Doug Wilk also picked up his fourth goal of the season as Jeff Barker and Dan Pittenger collected their first goals as Union hooters. VI rc E 0 .r:: 1- <11 c: rc 1... 1... 0 _J >- . .0 0 +- 0 ..c: a. Coach Bob Magee was pleased by the range of scoring talent as six different players- converted for the Dutchmen. The defense once again turned in a solid performance for Union. Fresh- man goalie John LaDuke also registered his first career victory in goal. On Saturday afternoon, the Dutchmen found themselves faced with their first real challenge of the young '85 campaign. The past two years had spelled frustration for the booters as they tied the Binghamton Colonials 2-2 and ~ 0. Moreover, the Colonials were coming into this years Contest ranked thirteenth in the nation and third in the state. The Dutchmen, whose explosive offense had registered nineteen goals in the last three games would now be tested by a strong defense of Binghamton. In Binghamton's first six games, they had given up just one goal, while registering five shutouts The Sailing Club came up short in its recent match, losing to RPI 12-13. behind their young freshman goalie. The game seemed destined to become another stalemate as neither team could muster a goal, until sophomore standout David Tewksbury ended the drought with his fourth goal of the '85 season. Union continued to maintain a 1- 0 lead until midway in the second half when Steve Hart- man connected off a pass from fullback David Hiscox. This gave the Dutchmen a two goal advantage as they went on to defeat the Colonials 2-o. Defense was once again superb, led by Junior back Dave Hiscox and Senior Grant Foreman. The win left the Dutchmen at 4-o for the season and in a good position to move up in the rankings. The next home game is Wednesday October 9 at 3:30. The Hooters will battle top ranked Brandeis University, whom Union upset last year. The game should be an exciting one as both teams are in the NCAA Division 1 top ten. Rugby By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff It's been a long time since Union's Rugby team has been looking to recover from a loss. Last Saturday just wasn't Union's day~not even the goal posts would stay up. Siena shut- out the Union ruggers in a lopsided 14-0 decision. Union's loss was due in part to poor scrumming and lack of proper defense. Siena scored their first try in the first half. Although they missed the conversion, Siena found themselves ahead of Union 4-o, early in the game. Not long after, Siena scored again-this time on a breakaway run by one of their speedsters. Due to Union's untimely inability to bring the man down, the Siena runner scored the second try of the game putting Siena up 8-0. With a successful conversion, Siena led by 10 points. Although Union played a good part of the second half in Siena's Union 3 Skidmore3 Union 1 Hamilton 1 COT) Roch.est.er 4 Union 1 Union 1 Middlebury 0 WOMEN'S SOCCER (2-3) Binghamton 1 Union 0 DUTCHM'J;:N SPORTSWEEK October 3- October 6 Thursday, 10/3 Volleyball vs. Williams, N. Adams 7:00 Women's Soccer at Middlebury 4:00 Friday, 10/4 Women's Tennis at Skidmore 3:30 Saturday, 10/5 Football vs. W.P.I. 1 :30 Women's Soccer vs. Hamilton 2:00 Field Hockey at Manhattanville 2:00 JV Men's Soccerv.s. Oneonta 11 :00 Men's & Women's Cross Country at LeMoyne Invitational Monday, 10/7 J.V. Football at Hamilton 4:00 Tuesday, 10/8 Field Hockey A&. B vs. Hartwick 7:00 Women's Tennis vs. Hartwick 3:30 VolleybaU at LeMoyne 6:00 J.V. Men's Soccervs. R.P.I. 3:30 Wednesday, 10/9 Men's Soccer vs. Brandeis 3:30 Women's Soccer at Vassar 3:30 Streak Snapped physical side of the game. bright spots during the game. Riley had several impressive tackles-stopping a couple of Siena runners when it seemed as if nobody else could. He also had another brilliant run- shooting through a pack of Siena ruggers, slipping, finding some daylight, and turning it on to trounce 40 or 50 meters down Union's Killer B team also came out on the losing end of their contest by a closer score of 6-4. Siena's B team scored first and converted the try to put themselves in the lead 6-o. It didn't take the Killer B's long to come back, however, as Rookie .... rc a. >- ..0 ~ .r:: 0. end, the defending Upstate senior Jeff WilsQn attempts a run while Junior Rob Sharpe blocks Rugby Union champions Siena defenders. couldn't seem to. put it together. the field before being caught by Josh Wal..:~--an sped around the Siena ended up scoring another Wll try and missing the conversion. a .Siena line-man. Union, left side of the field for Union's The final score was 14-0. however, was unable to convert first and only try of the game. Tim \Smiley?> Riley, who this added field position into The try was not successfully scored two tries in Union's four points. conYerted, however, and Union opening contest against Senior Captain John Friske, found themselves behind by two Hamilton, was one of Union~s .. ;~!~ ~~~~c:J~l~:i:~o~~~tE!.x ... ~~~~~~·lt• · Continued on page 9

- w ·y ) z Llso l of ~of irst put It no ~kie ks the Ill'S ne. Illy ion ;wo ' CXV No.3 Schenectady, New York Security Problems . . . Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 _ October 10, 1985 How Safe Are the Dorms? > .0 0 - 0 .r: 0. .·· •. ·.;;·: ByANDREABUGBEE · Staff Two weekends ago, at ap- proximately five o'clock a.m., . \'' two males were seen in West College. A student residing in the dorm called campus security to report the intruders' presence saying that they did not appear to belong in the building. Security responded to the call, .apprehended the t)vo youths who had entered the building through a propped door and escorted them off campus. The trespassers were juveniles (under the age of sixteen) and told the officer that they were from the Big Brothers and Sis.ters Association and were looking for their Big Brothers. This door propped open can allow an unwelcomed visitor to enter Union's dorms. The followil)g day, Security discovered via Residence Life that the boys had entered dorm rooms. The Security depart- ment then contacted the Campus Will Change Face By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor · According to John R. Hauser, Vice President of Administration and Finance, the College has encountered \no problems of_ any great magnitude\ in the construction of the new College Center and gymnasium- building. Hauser expects that both facilities will be completed by the Spring term of 1987. Construction on Alumni Gym will involve \total renovation of the existing building in addition to construction of the new,\ Hauser· says. While the huge hole behind the library is ob- viously intended to be the new pool, more specific plans are less visible. A new entry, located at the rear of the gymnasium, will open into a lobby. From the lobby, an elevator or stairs will lead to a concourse which Hau~r describes as \like a spine' in the· building: the concourse provides access to the various facilities throughout the gym. The basketball court will remain on the upper level as before, except the track above it will be removed. In addition, both ends of the upper level will house athletic offices. A one-story addition will provide a building containing eight courts to be used for squash, racketball and hand- ball. 'The concourse will facilitate observation of the courts from the upper levels. -- Hauser expects that the new gymnasium, like the College Center, will cost the College in excess of five million dollars- not including architecture fees, furnishings, landscaping, etc. However, he explains that while both projects are \challenging . . . what they'll do for the campus is tremendous.\ The College Center, Hauser adds, will provide \a truly Continued on page 2 Schenectady Youth Bureau and advised it of the early morning occurrence. The youths have been petitioned to appear in Family Court and will be handled through that authority. Is the occurrence of this in- cident the blame of 9 negligent security staff? In ;fnswer, some West College resfdents voiced their opinions: \I .don't feel that Security is to blame. I feel that people should be more careful letting others in at night.\ · - J'ed Eveleth, Sophomore \We called Security the other night about some guys roaming around. It literally took them ten minutes to get here-by that ' time, they were gone.\ -Sharon Slotnick, Freshman \It's so easy to enter a building simply by walking with a group of students as they enter also.\ -Steven Cole, 2nd Floor West Pierce J. Fitzgerald, Assistant Director of Security, responded on behalf of his department by saying that \With the information that they had had at that point, I feel that Security handled the situation appropriately. We are careful to maintain a file here on any person that is warned off campus. Any subsequent oc- currences will result in either arrest or Family Court procedures-or every legal recourse available to us. I think that the best of the whole situation was that the officers One half flight up from the lobby will be an eight-lane pool. A movable bulkhead will allow for distances of either 25 meters or 25 yards, and an additional diving area will include two one- and-a-half meter boards and one three-meter board. A glass- enclosed lounge off the con- course area will overlook each end of the pool. The pool ad- dition will not have a second The new College cen1er .features a new addition and complete reconstruction of the old interior. ~ level. · Union Visits t~ did take the time to gather all of the information that they did and then handle it in the proper legal way to which they are bound.\ Regardless of whether the incident could have been avoided, Union students view it as a story with an important moral. Because Schenectady is a city, students feel it is foolish to assume that our campus can be neatly deemed \Utopia\ in the midst of it. Short of posting guards at every gate and lacing the fence posts with barbed wire, most students recognize that it is impossible to keep every non-resident from en- tering. Once on campus, as already pointed out, admission to the residence halls is, if not easy, certainly feasible. In view of these opinions, students were able to suggest some ways in which Security could improve its attempts in making the dorms less ac- cessible. One suggestion was to place a lock on the stairwell door that leads to the upper floors of West· College. Only residents' keys would open tlie door and, presumably, a significant amount of traffic from the dining room and the Pizza Pub would be eliminated. Another suggestion was to have a security officer walk through the building at regular intervals during the early morning weekend hours. As this seems to be the time that students feel most endangered, they do not feel that the newly posted student guard is adequate protection as his shift ends at the closing of the Pizza Pub. Accordingly, it has also been suggested that this shift be extended to six a.m. Finally. it has hPPn rPf'o.m- mC'nded that a bt\ttl•r stn•arn 11f communication bP!Wl'l'n Security. tlw sttHknts. and thl' RA.s would ,ffl.r a n:.,r~· <H'\Ilt' awarrness for all and ide:llh· motivate a cautious, mformed. and safe community on cam- pus. If Security were to formally vocalize the occurrence of theft or trespassing events to the Residence Life offices, students might become more aware of open doors, strangers, etc. At the very least, such com- munication could prove to be vital in checking mispropor- tioned stories about such in- cidents as they are informally passed from student to student. Letter from Down one-half flight from the lobby, extensive locker rooms, exercise areas, an open weight room, and a varsity weight room wm·· occupy what has previously been the pool area. Wall Street Gridder Victory Term Abroad •Page16• •Page6• •Page 6•

CONCORDIENSIS, October 10, 1985 Construction Progresses ..!ohn R. Hauser, Vice President of Administration and Finance, believes construction on the College Center and the gym will im- prove the campus tremendously. Continued from page 1 common area'' for Union students. In the new center, stairs will connect to the en- tryway of a new two-level ad• dition. The visitor will. step down to enter, and a set.of stairs or an elevator will be located in the center of the structure. Hauser points out that this \goes back to the original concept\ providing access to other levels of the building's architecture. - . An all-campus mail room will occupy the space to the right of the entrance, where the Dutch Hollow Pub was formerly located. A turn-around will be built outside the mai:lroom to facilitate deliveries. To the left of the main entrance, a two- level store, connected by in- terior stairs, will feature books on the first floor and clothing, cards, and other items on the Dean· Gus sin Welcomed By MONIQUE HARRISON Staff The Graduate and Continuing Studies Program at Union College has recently taken on a new and dynamic leader-Dean Andrew Gussin. Formerly Vice President of Education at New York Botanical Garden, Dean Gussin has had much ex- perience in the education field. Gussin, a biologist specializing in plant physiology, received his Ph.D. at Brown University and was a professor at Smith College. He has two major goals for the program at Union: to integrate the program into . Union's undergraduate college and to market the program through tasteful ad- vertising. The Graduate and Continuing Studies Program, which in- cludes 1800 students, including 1000 part-time graduate students, encompasses non- credit courses, summer courses, part-time and full-time graduate programs and various symposiums and colloquiums. The non-credit program caters to those who do not need credit but want to broaden their horizons. The courses range from business and management skills to cultural interests such as oriental rugs and languages-Swedish, Chinese and Italian. The program provides courses for every age beginning at the one year-old level. The graduate programs Union offers encompass both part-time and full-time studies. The part-time graduate programs include mathematics, science and engineering. The full-time graduate program is for the M.S. and M.B.A. degrees in various concentrations given through the Institute of A d m i n i s-t r a t i o n a n d Management. One popular and highly reputable program is the Health Systems Administration curriculwn. These graduate courses are offered not only at the Schenectady campus but also at satellite centers in Poughkeepsie, Kingston and Pittsfield, Ma:Ssachusetts. Dean Gussin is working towards making such changes in the Graduate and Continuing Studies Program as offering daytime courses, changing the attitude of Union's faculty towards the non-credit program and working to improve the public's perception of Union's Graduate and Continuing Studies Program through in- tegration and marketing. Optimistic about the education Union offers, he wants this relayed to people in the com- munity who want to specialize and earn a degree or to broaden their knowledge for their own interest. Gussin feels that it is im- portant to specialize on the gt•aduate level although he believes Union has a strong liberal arts tradition with an excellent and challenging science and engineering program. He hopes to eradicate the myth that the non-credit program is frivolous and to stress that it is a program, not just a series .of courses. He claims, \non-credit programs An ad hoc committee has been appointed to investigate the tenurablility of Susan Niefield, Assistant Professor of Mathematics. Anyone who would like to participate in this review may contact Professor Weiner (Sociology), Professor Greenberg (Psychology), Professor Fairchild (Mathematics) or Professor Chang (Electrical Engineering). All information will be kept confidential. An ad hoc committee has been formed to evaluate Mr. Richard Hurley for possible promotion and tenurability at Union College. The committee welcomes written statements from both faculty and students. Please send such statements to Erik Hansen, c/o Department of History. do not reflect the strength of the undergraduate level of Union College.\ This predicament he ex- plains, is analogous to the recent ·concern over the liberal learning program. Many people want to study in a very serious academic way although they have no particular need for the cr~dit. The faculty's attitude must also change towards these courses according to Dean Gussin. Presently, the English Department is contemplating teaching a non-credit literature course. Dean Gussin will work toward a graduate school which emanates from Union's historic, prestigious and technologically based un- dergraduate college. The enrollment in the graduate program has declined in the past two years, and Dean Gussin feels it would benefit the college to attract a more sizeable group of graduate students. He considers it especially beneficial to increase the roster because one half of the country's students are part- time, and Union offers part- time graduate programs. Dean Gussin's predecessor, Aaron Feinsot, ran the program well, Gussin believes, but he feels more energy must be put into marketing.' 'This marketing must be dynamic and tasteful, changing it within the Union tradition.\ The first step would be to have the Graduate and Continuing Studies Program menti<med in the fihn \A Union of People\. Dean Gussin finds it distressing that the program could be overlooked in a major marketing device. He has been interviewing professional ad- vertisement agencies so that the program can · be aggressively and tastefully. advertised and will be seen as special. He is considering the radio and newspaper as a means of greater exposure, which is difficult since marketing academics is something new. Dean Gussin has become involved in several aspects of Union in order to further his cause of integration. He is a member of the Academic 4£fairs Council, the Faculty Review Board, and many other committees due to his interest in the curriculum. He sits in the cabinet of the senior staff which advises· President Morris weekly and is also included in the Alumni Council where, this weekend, he questioned why the Graduate and Continuing Studies Office does not have a . liaison to the Alwnni Council as the other offices on campus do. second. Through the center of the College Center, a long atrium will extend, where Hauser anticip,ates ''the bulk· of things will happen.'' The atrium will receive natural lighting from skylights up to three levels above and will be decorated with various trees and banners. Tables and seating throughout this common area will ac- company a restaurant, like the old pub, or may be used to view entertainments such as cabaret, live mUSic, or im- promptu lectures, all from a depressed stage area in the rear. Across from the restaurant, a box office will service the theater. Hauser notes that the theater \won't replace the Nott,\ but will provide a stage, a movie screen and over two hundred seats. To the rear of the first level, a terrace will overlook Jackson's Gardens, but, Hauser adds, will not ex .. tend as far as the former machine shop. The second level will contain in addition to the upper level of the store, three conference rooms, food service offices and a main dining room for students. \West of course, will continue to serve freshmen students,\ Hauser adds, \This (new facility in the Center) will serve the upperclassmen.\ The dining hall boasts a seating capacity of over three hundred, and will be used for meetings as well as meals, since it may be broken down into smaller sections. The atrium will also extend through the center or the dining area. A lounge, which Hauser describes as similar to the old Strauss lourige in Carnegie Hall, will occupy a section of the third floor. Student Affairs offices will make up the left part of the - level, while Student Activities, book store ·offices, Con- cordiensis, and student organizational offices will fill the remainder of the third level. On the fourth floor, Residence life, Religious Affairs, WRUC, and the Student Forwn will have offi.ces, while several other rooms have been del:lignated for other student organizations, some of which will share space. The remaining offices have not yet been specifically asssigned. The new College Center offers two side entrances from the ground level, and lavatories on the first, second and fourth levels. Hauser explains that the construction companies for the two projects were chosen by a competitive bidding process . Although one company did underbid, Hauser says the college eventually negotiated a contract it . considered ap- propriate. Currently, .a Boston- based company; Sheply, Bulfinch, Richardson, and Abbott, is working on the Student Center while another company, called the Eggars Group, is renovating the Alumni gym. Construction on the College Center began in early September, and work on the gym began in early August. Although the starting dates were both about a month behind schedule, Hauser considers such delays common in the construction business. Both construction projects were undertaken simultaneously because, Hauser explains, \The President, the Administration, and the Board recognized a need for the two facilities and judged them of equal priority.\ Hauser looks forward to seeing . the two facilities \become a reality together.'' Fall has just started to come to Union; the leaves are beginning to t.urn. 1lnton ·€olltge ;fatultp ~olloqutum Bruce L. Reynolds Associate Professor of Economics Is China ·Changing? Tuesday, November 12 Jit 4:30 p.m. SS016 Coffee & Tea at 4:30p.m. All are welcome to attend! Col~ Dl ByJ Mar unive creasE and , risks, inves1 which Afric~ Ameri an es such: byU.: and p Las passe mend miniS! comn colleg withe in So stipu:. Trust' comn was I ThE broug June Tidm fa cull to in facul1 mittE unan resol1 Th- brou~ Trust Las elec ele1 - - Tl ann Joh Pro at C tlni, 25 I Pr(] Moe Stal bio~ Ow Coo H. I the Am Let doz ofp w. the and has incl

CONCORDIENSIS, October 10, 1985 Page3 College_ explores possibilities .•• Divestment Group Formed By J()ANNE McANDREWS Staff. Many U.S. colleges and universities faced with in- creased pressure from students am;l worried about financial risks, are withdrawing their investments in companies which do business in South Africa, According to the American Committee on Africa, an estimated $266 million in such stocks has been divested by U.S, university endowments and pension funds. Last May, the Student Forum passed a resolution recom- . mending that the ad- ministration form an ad-hoc committee to examine the college's business investments with CQmpanies that do business in South Africa. The Forum stipulated that one student Trustee be a member of this conimittee, and the resolution· was passed unanimously. The same proposal was brought before the faculty last J~~e by Professor Charles Tidmarch, faculty Trustee. The faculty amended the resolution to include a provision for a faculty Trustee on the com- mittee. The faculty then unanimously passed the resolution as well. The resolution was next brought before tbe Board of Trustees, where· it was again L. <ll .0 .:I L. 2 c.!) -c· .> C1l 0 > .0 0 0 .c a passed unanimously. The Board formed the Social Investment Committee which includes William Burns, Vice Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Finance Committee of the Trustees, and Chairman of the Social Investment Committee; Dr. Richard Day, Life Trustee; Andrew .George, Senior campus Trustee; Kathryn Mullaney, Alumni Trustee; and Professor Charles Tidmarch, Associate Professor of Political Science and faculty Trustee. According to Andrew George, the issue of so-called social investment is not a .simple one. \One of the responsibilities of the Trustees is to use the funds for general education and to maximize them. It's our task to look into the moral respon- sibility of this.\ George explained that a company called Arthur Little, Inc. ranks U.S. companies in South Africa, based on how well they adhere to the Sullivan principles. The Sullivan Principles were . initiated · by Reverend Leon H. Sullivan from Philadelphia, PAin March 1977 and encourage U.S. companies to set an example by ending racist customs and practices. Basically, the Sullivan Principles are an equal rights conduct code for U.S. businesses in South Africa and throughout the world. George -::~--- . _ ..... - --- .. I Last week, vandals caused approximately $8,000 in damage to the eleGtrical panel controlling the elevator located in the lobby. This elevator services Old Chapel. · remarked that the Trustees will see how the companies in which the college has investments are ranked according to Arthur Little, Inc. The timetable for the Social Investment Committee is as follows: 1he committee will meet for the first time in October to examine the college's policies and in- vestments. By January 1986 they will formulate an initial draft and by Apdl 1986 will submit a proposal for examination by the Board of Trustees. Commented George, \It is important to emphasize that this is a difficult issue-one can't immediately label the issue good or bad. The Trustees realize that it's an issue that should be looked at.\ Andrew George, the senior trustee, is a member of the Social In- vestment Committee, which is investigating the College's in- vestment po'licies. \Mercy Killing\ Evaluated By DIANE MEHTA Staff Where does one draw the line between supposing a person .is dead and deciding whether that person should be dead? Euthanasia, or \mercy- . killing\ has become a vexation for many people as they question the morality of ''letting or causing someone to die.\ Dr. Thomas Blank, an associate professor of psychology at Lehigh University, addressed the topic of euthanasia last Thursday in his discussion of the social psychology Qf death and dying. Blank began by defining 1 death' as the point when all of one's biological systems are down. The dilemma between being biologically dead and being healthy forces society to make the decision of whether or not a person should be allowed to take his life. Blank proposed to his audience four different options from which to choose if the audience was able to decide upon a particular death. The results suggested that the favored death is painless, has less psychological con- frontation, and allows the time to fulfill one's goals. Other factors included the fear of being a burden to others or experiencing the loss of \normal control\ of one's bodUy and mental functions. Blank then asked if ''there are States of clearly being alive that are worse than death?\ Seeing the circumstances of various deaths helped listeners realize that death may not necessarily be worse than, for instance, certain degenerative, debilitating diseases. One professor from the audience good- .humQredly added \as Woody Allen said, 'It's worse to be locked in a four- by-four box with an insurance salesman.\' · Blank outlined types of euthanasia: passive eutha1J3sia (when one lets another die), an assistant suicide (when one helps someone to die), the decision to commit suicide, and finally the conscious action taken to make someone dead. Blank proposed the idea that everyone should be absolutist, and take the attitude to always keep everyone alive. The problem with this lies in a 'triage' -a health care system which, in the case of emergency or battle patients, give priority first to the serious non-fatal, then less serious, and finally mortally wounded. One way of deciding who may die is to leave it to God and let the person die a natural death. Alternatives include leaving it for medical doctors to deter- mine or to others, such as the patient's family or ethicists. Blank suggested that since people have rights, they have a right to decide when they want to die. A problem results in that his philosophy implies a lot of suicides, and there are people who cannot make this decision knowingly. Blank mentioned letting the patient's family decide the victim's fate, which presents the problem of im- plicating a third party to make the important and personal decision of ending one's life. Another alternative raised by Blank is to have a team con- sultation on the negotiation process for rendering the decision to live or die. The decision could be left to the individual with the use of a living will, it could be decided by close family and friends, or it could be decided by representatives of societal needs. Blank, when he asserted that he \sees medical doctors as consultants or advisors to decision-makers rather than decision-makers themselves,\ recognizes the problem of letting . others, especially strangers, decide a person's fate. Blank concluded his discourse by focusing on one's right to partake in the decision to \make die\ or remain alive. This doesn't mean that in the negotiation process, people should not attempt to dissuade the person from terminating his or her life, but that each person, having rights, must acquiesce to the right of others to try to convince or help him decide what is \right\. Blank contends that we all share mortality and thus \a right, an obligation, but also a privilege to be a part of the creative process of being a developing individual and a responsible decision-making member of society. That necessarily involves us everyday in relating our needs to those of others, in persuading others what is right, in negotiating what happens, how it happens and what it means. Death, like life, is part of that creative process.'' Camp·us News Briefs Lamont Professor The English Department announces that Jon Stall worthy, John Wendell Anderson Professor of English Literature at Cornell University, will be at Union from October 14-0ctober 25 as Visting Thomas Lamont Professor of Ancient and Modern Literature. Professor Stallworthy is author of two biographies, including Wilfred Owen, winner of the Duff Cooper Memorial Prize, the W. · H. Smith Literary Award, and the E;M. Forster Award of the American Academy of Arts and Letters. He has written half a dozen widely acclaimed books of poe~, two critical studies of W. B. Yeats and translations of the poems of Alexander Blok and Boris Pasternak. Too, he has edited several anthologies including tbe recently published Oxford Anthology of War Poetry. While at Union Professor Stallworthy will visit classes, and will lecture on \Mother and Daughter- Memory and Poetry\ during the Minerva Hour, October 16 (11: 30-12:30) in the Music Room of the Library. He will read from his poetry on Tuesday, October 22. at 8 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge (sec on(!. floor, Humanities Building). Both events are free and open to the public. Younger Scholars Program Guidelines and application forms for the Younger Scholars Program of the National Endowment for the Humanities are now available for photocopying in the Placement Office. The Program will award up to 100 grants nationally to ~ ~ ~,_ ... t \\~ .. ~\4' .......... ,. ..... 4..11\' ..... -.• ·\: -t·~·,.:~ .. ,,..~,-.'(:·(j·.-.~.:- ... ~.- ·\ ~--4--\ ····t ·\.~,.·'(· .. . 1.{_-(-',,:.·,' ,-~ ~ \.~ ..... college and high school students to conduct their own research and writing projects in such fields as history, philosophy, and the study of literature. Applicants must be twenty- one years of age or under throughout the calendar year in which the application is sub- mitted; or, if they are over twenty-one, they must be fulld time college students pursuing an undergraduate degree at the time of application. Individuals who will have received or ex- pect to receive a bachelor's degree by October 1, 1986, are not eligible to apply. The ap- plication deadline is November 1, 1985. Recipients of these awards wlll receive a stipend of $1 ,800 and be expected to work full time for nine weeks durmg the sut.nnler of 1986, researchdng and writing a humanities paper under the close supervision of a humanities scholar. Please note '' ... that this is not a financial aid program and that no academic credit should be sought for these projects. If guidelines are not available at the Placement Office, please write to: Younger Scholars Guidelines CN,. Division of General Programs, Room 420, National Endowment for the Humanities, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20506. Union Alumnus to Lecture Associate Professor of Architectural History, Paul V. Turner (Union College, '62) who won the Hitchcock Award of the American Society of Architectural Historians for his 1984 book Campus will give a free lecture at his ahna mater on Tuesday, October 15th at 4:30 p.m. in Arts Building Room 215, entitled Ramee Before Union. The lecture will present for tfie first time initial results of Turner's current research into the life and work of the French Emigree architect Joseph Jacques Ramee. What led Eliphalet Nott to entrust the design of Union College to a foreigner? What was the training and what were the prior accomplishments of the French exile? Ramee's European work as well as plans for the Parish family of Ogdensberg will be examined for the first time in the Union . talk. Professor Turner has been awarded a senior fellowship from the A.C.L.S. to support his current research on Ramee. The lecture will be followed by a reception for the speaker. +. -~ ~ ·- ·~~-·' .... ._., ... .., .......... \ ... ~ ....... _ ............ ~\'·\~·~· .... \\ ~.\- •• < ~ ........ 1. t. ~ ~ \\(,.'\ .... t. ~ ..... \lo... \ li .... \\\' \/ ,_\\ I

Page4 - WRITERS' B:LOCK CURED ·- Send $2 for catalog of over 16,000 topics, to - OMIC RELIEF FROM THE JOB HUNTING HASSLE. At Cumberland Farms, we realize that looking for a job is no laughing matter. So, we've decided to put a little fun in it for you. · As the largest privately owned convenience store chain in the country, we sell the freshest products from Maine to Florida. And right now we have some frest\ career opportunities available for you. If you want to join a company that can offer stability, responsibility, flexibility and has a good sense of humor. . . -_ ··~·. Our College Recruiter will be on campus on October 22 •: • • • Visit your College Placement Office to set up • • • • I an appointment. cumbePiilntl IJJP•II· Equal Opponunil)l Employor M/FIHN assist your writing efforts. and help you beat Writers' Block. For info .. , call TOLL-FREE 1- 800-621-5745. (In Illinois, call 3.12-922-0300 •. ) Autho.rs' 'Research, Rm. 6oo;' 407 South Dear- born, Chicago I L 60605. , 8.Reizanifla118 Hair Designs ~ UNlON COLLEGE STUDENTS 2 for 1 , H.AIRCUTS Reg. $10. Now $5.00 Each with this coupon valid thru O<;:t. 20 M'ON.-FRI. 9-9 372 _. 0007 , 519 UNION ST. SAT. 9-6 SCH'DY VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370-3257 for great fall fashions ,\ 133 Canal Square· 1370-4288· $41t1111M ,....,. •• ~. -~~ PIZZA fl'~· ~UTili J.<j~, .. - \. $PACIUn I PIZZ·E RIA I PHONES: 372-7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORDER$ TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET 8c VAN ANTWl::RP RO. SCHENECTAOY, N.Y. ARE YOU READY FOR Tri-De/ta 's BEER, PUNCH & POPCORN PARTY? This Sat~rday, Oct. 12 at 9:00 p.m. Union I.D. Required _ rJ '··~\¥ \~' o/..J ~ .. -l.,;,:\'•''fi• ~-...£t;.',,/,.. ,~~\f .. ~··,..'~\\.io.-<A~· f ~ -~• .. t,.!, ~,..t __ .·.--.~\.t.• •-( ., ... :r \' lr \\ .,- 'jl'l l\ 'JI ..,. \' ,~., P.-r il' 1'-\.W-- lit\' )t\ rJ:: ~·';It'_.. ¥' ~ \* ::lilj.'lr ill'\' .Jl< io? .__. ... !10 It: 'U•il:. 4, _';} ~- .:J' .& fJl :d' W., ...,. ;,t 11f,~ ~ :,;i, iifJ,.09 .- _'t. '<,_!t \''l''\'W\ '\I:,I·.'JI'-:t~'*:'tt.~.·tt ~ Y.'!r{,_':f\ 'l(' 't ,W: .,. -r.'»\t lr '(' V\\1l\';V -r.':!i!l \'If• 'I' Tf tf'.'l\' ..... ' Y' T ....- ·~ .,. r . .,../iW'J<!#'..tr.·.,. ~'T'~-~'1\. .... .,\'-'11:'\ :\'\.,,• .i.\ ..:.-\!2\\'1-.':'a'~ ~ 3.,'<J .1..-•:0 ~- 4:-\' lf·,.t;~ :.!J,lit',)VJ Yll'! )if:\' o~ E TI: Ens org1 mea clas forn sma nine Eve b'y Ens· ver: grm dalll Hel Pet~ Arti Pre: Bitt Mar E, botl cho1 pro Ens at a wee ded plac one as Em to a ord forr sta1 rna: exp flu~ me. par ~ the cor \TI the CUI En: pos gro onl. dar uni· Tt D s T r1 p

CONCORDIENSTS,··octoberJO, 1985 ' Page5 FEATURES The Union College Dance Ensemble performs. Dancers begin season ••• Ensemble Gains Status By MAGGIE BOITANO Features Editor . allows faculty and students to work together on specific pieces and share their creativity outside the classroom. interested in such a com.; mitment this is the place to look because their quality per- formances and strong in- volvement with the Arts Department are testimony of the Ensemble's success. Note: The Ensemble wishes to invite anybody interested in their jazz program to come join the class Monday nights at 8:00 in the Dance Studio. They would also like to congratulate their new members: Katie Boyd, Stephanie Cooper, Jennifer Johnson, Penelope Neubauer, and Nancy Schultz. / Barbara Fletcher,: Joins Faculty )Jy MARJORIE HOFFER Contributor Barbara Fletcher is the new addition to the psychology department. Although she is filling in at this . point for Professor Lipton, Fletcher is not exactly his replacement. She is presently working on her dissertation and brings to Union a very new and interesting aspect of psychology-Health Psychology. Barbara Fletcher did her undergraduate studies at SUNY Albany, where she graduated with a degree in nursing. She practieed for a few years at Georgetown and at St. Elizabeth's. It was this ex- perience which really sparked her interest in pursuing a career in psychology. While nursing, Fletcher became strongly aware of the relationship of a patient's at- titude to his rate of recovery. After five years of working as a nurse, she went to SUNY Albany graduate school. While at Albany, she did some teacping and worked as a research assistant at Albany Medical School. Basically, the research that she participated in studied Doctor-Patient relationships. Now at Union, Fletcher en- joys teaching and is really looking forward to the class that she will be teaching spring term in her specialty, health psychology. She will also be speaking on November 13, on the subject of Stress Management--the ideas and strategies in coping with job stress. Those who are interested in psychology and the medical profession would perhaps be most interested in this new field of health psychology. Fletcher's dissertation is on the study of type A behavior patterns, which is the personality style that is thought to make people prone to heart disease. Fletcner states that there is a lot to be done in the field of Health Psychology. She is interested in research and writing ~nd sees her future possibly in a hospital where she would like to see her work, and the work of others in the field applied to patients and their motivation towards getting better. The findings in Heal Care Psychology apply to all phases of health care, and the key, hopes Fletcher, will be prevention. Thus, although Fletcher says she likes teaching and hopes to be able to continue teaching later on, in addition to her work, she is at Union on a temporary basis. Union is quite fortunate to have a specialist in such a new field on the faculty. We welcome her to the college and wish her a very successful future. The Union -College Dance Ensemble, a student run organization designed as a means of demonstrating classroom techniques in per- formance, has started off a smashing season this Fall with nine very dedicated members. Ever since its creation in 1983 by Alan Tuckman, the Ensemble has proven to be a very cloS€-knit and intense group. Faculty Advisors include dance teachers Pat Castelli, Helga Richards, and Pat Peterson as well as current Co- Artistic Directors (or Presidents) of the club, Sarah Bittleman artd Michelle Manley. Surprisingly enough, the Jazz classes offered last spring tenn were originated as a means of fund raising but due to ex- tended interest, classes will continue this year even though the Ensemble recently gained status as a club with a budget. The extra money will go twoards costumes for their performances which will be held at the end of the term, In order to become a member, one must audition and, if accepted, take one dance class offered by the department. There are an average of two rehearsals per week plus' the Ensemble class that meets once a week. You are allowed to miss only two classes a term, but obviously it takes a very dedicated individual to keep up with such a demanding schedule. This is just what the Ensemble is striving for: dedication to the invention and acquisition of various dance works by a quality group. A Fresh Kid .. -on the Run Each term a number of pieces both modern and ballet are choreographed by both hired professionals and students. Ensemble members are chosen at auditions held during the first week of every term. A small dedicated club, the Ensemble places a great deal of emphasis on enthusiasm and committment as well as technique. An Ensemble member must live up to a special set of criteria in order to insure good per- formance both on and off the stage. A repertoire of pieces are maintained by the club thereby expanding their sphere of in- fluence as well as allowing old members to remain active participants. With the recent renovation of the Arts Building and the en- corporation of a dance course, \Tlie Dance Experience\ into the Arts Department curriculum, the Dance Ensemble has proven its pur- pose. As a semi-professional group for Union College, it not only unites those interested in dance and performance in a unique manner, but it also According to Sarah Bit- tleman, the acting co-President of the club, \The Ensemble hopes to maintain itself as an extension of the dance and art programs. at Union; a solid organization with support from both students and faculty-.\ The ultimate goal of the Ensemble is the formation of a \Dance Troop\ that will travel to local high schools and give per- formances in. conjunction with surrounding colleges, thus sharing their techniques and pieces with other dancers of the same level as well as en· tertaining. The Ensemble is striving for a firm distinct reputation as an organization of talented in- dividuals, enthusiastic about all aspects of dance and dedicated to their common goal. If you're By LEE ANN ACHMIDT Associate Features Editor \I need, I need potatoes!\ This call was familiar to all of us who waited through seemingly endless lines at West Dining Hall in pursuit of \food.\ Remember whose voice it was? Fresh Kid, the sprightly little old woman who served us. She was more than just an employee of Union College; Fresh Kid was special. Not many people would recognize her by her real name, Jeanette Fennicks. She started working at Union in October of 1951, more than thirty years ago. Since then she has held several jobs at the college. Jeanette began by working for President Davidson. Then, she worked as a day cleaner until 1976 when she reached the mandatory retirement age. Becasue of her dedication to Union, Jeanette found a way to stay on campus. She worked for the independent food company, Saga. When R.S.V.P. took over the food contract she continued to work at West. In 1979 Union took over food Services. At that UNION COLLEGE BIG BROTHER/ BIG SISTER EXECUTIVE COMMinEE The BB/BB Board consists of: Rebecca Clement, Johne McCormick, Mary Dickinson, Dave Hanafin, Jackie Jones, Fred Rothberg, Pattie Richards, Chitra Stokes, Simon Drew These volunteers will be planning activities and making sure our program runs smoothly on campus. Any assistance you can give them will be ap- preciated. SUNDAYGROUPPROGRAM This fall the Sunday Group Program will run as follows: September 22, 29; October 5, 13; October 20, 27; November 3, 10 The Group Program will start at 1:30 p.m. to 3:30p.m. All Group members are asked to arrrive at 1:15 on Sunday to greet the ctlildren when they arrive. Group Leaders this year will be: Fred Rothberg, Marc Arkovitz, Daniel Sheppard, Joann Sternheimer NEW TELEPHONE/OR ADDRESS? Pl·ease make sure you let your caseworker know if you have a telephone/and or address.change. time, the mandatory retirement age was in the process of being lifted, and Jeanette was re- hired by Union. Many of Union's employees are dedicated to the college, but Jeanette had that extra something that made her stand out. I don't know quite what it was. Maybe the fact that she made us smile.~ Or perhaps it was her impish energy. ShP. had the rare qualities of youth- fulness combined with a special authority. On many occasions, Fresh Kid convinced me to attempt to eat the vegetables. How could you say no to her chiding glances and catching phrases such as: \What'd your mother say?\ I found myself explaining why I didn't want the soggy string beans. I miss having Fresh Kid at West. I hope retirement is treating her well, and I'd like her to know that she is still a special part of Union. We won't soon forget her. - DO YOU CARE ABOUT .CURRICULUM? IF YOU DO, IIERE IS YOUR CHANCE TO TALK DIREOLY TO THE SUBCOUNCIL ON THE CURRICULUM!! The Subcouncil has set aside the following times to listen to YOUR ideas: Wednesday, Oct. 16 3:30-5:00 p.m. Friday, Oct. 18 1 :30-3:30 p.m. to schedule an appointment please call Christie Sorum's office at: 370-6067 HAVEA VOICE IN UNION'S FUTURE Seniors: There are approximately 160 days left to thesis deadline. Have YOU started yet? • I

,. ;- CONCORDIENS'IS, October 10, 1985 New Scholarships Announced . • • Schmidt Funds By JOAN GOTLm Contributor An endowed scholarship has been created by the Union College Student Forum in recogNition of Calvin G. Sch- midt,.devoted alum:ms from the class of 1951. The scholarship is divided into three special endowed funds. 1. The Calvin G. Schmidt Scholarship Fu td. The income from this fund. fifty thousand dollars, is to be used as finan- cial aid for needy students. Each year c.bout $3,500 to $3,700 will be given. 2. The Calvin G. Schmidt Fund· Studer.t Forum. Thirteen thousand dollars has been allotted to the Student Forum to be used as ar! annual reserve account for future activities. 3. The Calvin G. Schmidt Prize Fund. A two thousand dollar monetary prize will be awarded on Union's Annual Prize Day to a Junior who, according to the opinion of the Student Forum, has contributed the most to improving Union College Campus life. After thirty years of devoted service to Union College, Calvin Schmidt retired in 1984. He served the college as Registrar during the last twenty years. In addition to his duties as Registrar, he served thirty years as faculty advisor for the October is ••• Rathskellar and as Secretary to the Board of Trustees. He was awarded the Alumni Council Gold Medal in 1979. As an active Union College student, Mr. Schmidt, with some of his classmates, began the student-run organization of the Rathskellar. In February of 1949, the \Dutchman's Rathskellar\ was finally ap- proved by the Student Council. Initially, the skellar was a snack bar, and the students employed, worked on a volunteer basis. In 1962, the Saga Food Service took over the management of the Skellar and were joined b\y the Union College Food Service in 1978. During the early history of the Skellar, a \Skellar Fund\ was started from some of its profits. Over the years, while the fund's monies increased, it was almost forgotten. However, Calvin Sch· midt, one of the fund's creators, remembered_it. Two years ago, he brought the Skellar Fund to the attention of the Skellar Board. They discovered that they had $65,000 at their disposal! The Calvin G. Schmidt Scholarship was transferred this past summer and will begin to be distributed next year. Also, on October 10, the scholarship will be formally presented to Mr. Calvin Sch- midt in Milano Lounge at 3 p.m. Nat'/. Popcorn Poppin' Month FEATURES Union students, accompani~d by Prof. Schmidt, visited Wall Street last week. The Career Center walks on Wall Street ... Aspiring Professionals By DEBBIE ALBERT and AMY ROSENKRANTZ Staff Friday October 4, marked the first Union Financial Career Field Trip to Wall Street. It was a sight to see 40 ambitious seniors dressed in their ·finest corporate attire, ready to board the chartered bus to N. Y.C. at 7 a.m. Joanne. Tobiessen, director of the C.D.C., was the trip's coordinator. She strategically brought together eleven Union graduates, all established in their respective line of work. They were all to speak about their careers, to he1p us get a better idea of what Wall Street and its employees do for a living. Through all the typical N.Y.C. morning traffic, the bus arrived at the Bankers Trust Building on Liberty Street, where the morning seminar was to be held. As we exited the bus, . appearing a bit wriBkled, the eagerness of the day ahead helped us to seem as professional as all the other N.Y.C. financiers on their way to work. member of the panel spoke about his-her current positions, what they entail, and how they got there. These members of the panel were proof that en- thusiasm and perseverance can make a Union graduate a success .. Aside from the job descriptions, the panel opened our eyes to the realities and the necessary commitment to obtain a career in the field of finance. Questions were asked about salaries, and as most of us knew, a financial career is a very lucrative one. However, the money is accompanied with extended hours at the office. An open letter from students abroad ... -- The morning seminar focused on commercial and investment banking, as well as corporate financial management. Guest speakers included: Tom Stark, Bankers Trust; Deborah Rudolph, Manufacturers Hanover; Marla Lux, Citibank; Tom Goldstein, PfiZer; and Sandra Krieger, Federal Reserve Bank. All five speakers helped to break their careers into understandab~e terms by explaining to us their career paths and exactly what their jobs entailed. They discussed entry level positions and what they felt to be the best avenues to take when searching for a job. They stressed using all possible contacts for helping to get \your .foot in the door\ at any major firm. After the discussion, we were free to talk to - each aliunnus in· dividually. They were happy to answer any questions we may have had. The financial career field is diverse, so it is possible to obtain a 9 to 5 job. It was the general consensus that the challenges on Wall Street are neverending. So, if you are an intelligent person who is willing to devote many hours to your job and you are impressed with the many facets of the finance field, you should consider a job on Wall Street. It is quite in- terestil}g, however, that the majority of the investment houses have moved from Wall Street. Greetings from Japan Dear Union, Japan has been quite a shock for us. The country itself is as beautiful as you could ever imagine; from the heights of Mount Fuji to the depths of the Sea of Japan. The people are definitely not New Yorkers, our encounters have been nothing but extraordinarily hospitable. People have driven hours out of their way for us, given us the education. Believe it or not, you are learning at Union. We are very concerned about our beloved Skellar and urge the students and alumni to use all influence to keep the Skellar open after December 1. After all, seniors need a place to imbibe. How's the football team doing? Please try to keep us informed, it isn't easy to root for the Kansai Goidai football team Kimono in the skellar upon our return. He's a gambling man. PulrSkellar managers - what do you think about women bouncers? Particularly ones who are well' versed in the martial arts. Chi Psi - we met a guy named Hiroyama who says he lives in the Lodge, well? Motorcycles are the latest craze, from Smith Sensai's Yamaha 250 to Wheetet's Over ih Osaka, Jason Greene and Ira Suckman are \Turning Japanese.\ use of their homes, and one man invited twenty of us for dinner because we asked him for directions. On to academics! You have never seen ''throats\ until you have met some of the people here. The alleged throats at Union do not even come close. Through interaction with students from other American colleges and universities we can see the superiorit~ of a Union - there are only eleven of them. Now for the gossip, we know that's what you've been waiting for. To date, after four almosts, there has been one decision to stay here for a full year. We're sorry but Dave Marin will not be returning to the warmth of a Schenectady winter. Tri Delt • your representative has been well taken care of. Sigma Chi - one of your brothers may be dancing in full scooter, which can make it to Osaka from Tokyo in only 22 hours. The rest of us have had· our moments, both good and bad drunk and sober. But I tbink our experience was best described by Barry Smith when he said, \The adventure has begt111.\ Sayonara, Term Abroad in Japan Tom Stark then escorted us through the Trading Room, which had phones connected all over the world. The scene was quite e:l(:citing, as the room was filled with computers and loud voices speaking to all major trading cities. We then walked 15 minutes to the Prudential-Bache Building on Water Street, where we were treated to a wonderful Wall Street lunch. Because most of us had not eaten since the previous night, we certainly appreciated the deli platter, ·shrimp salad and potato salad, and coffee to keep us going. After an hour to digest, alumnus Tom O'Connor in· traduced Sandy Schwartz, an investment banker who has been in the field for 22 years. He is not a Union graduate, but his knowledge of life on Wall Street made him the key speaker of the day. Tom O'Connor then walked us to a second Prudential Building at 100 Gold Street. We were met by other alumnae for our afternoon seminar. Speakers were Susan lReville, Citibank; Dan Lacoff, Paine Webber; Ronald Jordan, N.Y. Stock Exchange; and Mark Obenzinger, Laidlaw, Adams and Peck. This seminar focused on . careers in in- vestment banking, public finance, research, and sales. As in the first seminar, each Susan Reville spoke about the role of women on Wall Street. As in any situation, obtaining a management position is not an easy task. If you are bright and in the right place at the right time, whether you are male or female, you will move ahead. After the panel discussion refreshments were served and it was time for the young aspiring professionals to board the bus at South Street Seaport. The day proved to be very educational and enjoyed by all. It is important to note that Union alumnae are willing to answer questions about their job and to aid students in their job search. Their addresses are available in the Career Development Center. On behalf of the Union students who participated in the field trip, as well as Professor Schmidt, we would like to ex- tend our appreciation to all those who took time out of their busy days to talk with us. Special thanks goes to Tom Stark who set up the morning seminar at Bankers Trust arid to Tom O'Connor who organized the wonderful lunch and seminar at Prudential-Bache. For anyone interested in a Finance Career, tapes of the seminar are available at the C. D.C. These seminars are very . beneficial for all, whether you know what career path you would like to take or not. Stop by and take advantage of what Joanne Tobiessen and the C.D.C. are organizing.

. LOANS ARRANGED: oebt conso·l idatlon business, expansion, mortgages, venture capital, air- craft and marine financing, farm and agricultural, trucking, theatrical produ~tions stage screen - TV - video, educationa I, inventions, franchises, mining, oil drilling, casino andenterta-inment palaces, hotels, motels, ranches, or -for any sound purpose including arbitrag~ lending and Barter trading. $1 B-illion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs, or if in a hurry ca II 203-848-8552. BATE-S BUSINESS CONSU.LT ANTS 123 Maple Ave., P.O. Box 233, Montville,, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address 11 BATFIN\ We are the only money service in. the world (that. we· know of) tha.t serves borrowers· 24 flours per day (8 p.m.-9 a.m. recorded service)d 365 days a year. If you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or call Bates/Sorrentino for details .. CONCORDJENSIS, October 10, 1985 Select from our entire collection of fall and winter shoes ... ARNOW SHOES daily ,til 6 • Thurs. & Fri. 'til 9 ANNIVERSARY SALE Purchase one pan at our regular price ... get another pair at equal or less value for ... l/2price Nina-Bass~Jasmin-Cherokee-Mia and many others. SHOES 428 State Street Schenectady, N . Y. in tbe heart of Canal Square TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE: C~~T~V STA£7~ ()~LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay st. • 382-5493 RESPITE PROVIDER TRAINING WORKSHOP 24 HOUR CERTIFICATION Registration Date: October 15,1985, 7:00-9:00at The Cerebral Palsy Center for the Disabled 314 So. Manning Blvd. Albany, New York 12208 RESPITE CARE • WHA TIS IT? -temporary care of a disabled family member. ·a therapeutic approach to recreation Page7 -a vital supportive service, an aid to keeping families together, a well deserved necessity. THE BEST PEOPLE Everyone wants to hire the best people. The creative people-with bold ideas. But few. if any companies. have had as much success as Hazeltine at bringing the best on board. And there are some very good rea'sons for our success. · It all begins with our environment. It tends to be more si.\Pportive than most-especially when it comes to helping new graduates make the most of the ,skills they've acquired and the talents they've been born with. From <Our open-minded, progressive management to our superb in-house training and 100% tuition reimbursement programs. everything at Hazeltine worl1s together to help the best work better. We also give you important responsi- bilities-the chance to be a productive contributor from day one. Finally. theres virtually no limit to how far you can go. No wonder so many of the best keep choosing us. THE HIGHEST TECHNOLOGY A lot of companies call themselves leaders in electronics technology. But Hazeltine's leadership is based on fact, not talk. Our R&D facility. Wheeler Lab, Is world renowned. The FAA awarded us the contract for the -Microwave Landing System-making us the undis- puted leader in that field. Add all this to our ongoing breakthrough work in electronic systems and software development. signal and information processing, radio communica- tions, VLSI and microelectronic design, and antenna research. Hazeltine is, without question. the ideal. place for graduates who want hands-on experience with electronics technology that is continually state-of-the-art. · We're looking for graduates with a B.S., M.S. or Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering or Computer Science. Make plans to meet our representative on campus: Friday, October 11 Or, if you're unable to meet us, send your resume to Doreen Cassidy . indicating your specific area of interest. Details on the diverse career opportunities at Hazeltine are available in your schools placement office. HAZELTlNE Corporation, 780 Park Avenue. Greenlawn, NY 11740. An Equal Opportunity Employer Committed to Affirmative Action. A Hazeltine Corporate Policy. · ~Hazeltine W Corporation EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES When certified: -trained to work with the developmentally disabled. -hourly wages ·flexible hours- days, nights, weekends and school vacations. FOR INFORMATION AND REGISTRATION Call (518) 489·8336, Mary Banks -ext. 456 or Michael Duffey- ext. 456 Young Democrats Meeting: Thurs., Oct. 1 0 7:30p.m. Old Chapel - Room C Third Floor If interested but can't attend call Nancy at 6 701 Freshman Records are availabte· in the Office of Student Affairs located in WHITAKER HOUSE, SOUni COLLEGE *Each record is $7.50

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Octo/JerlO, 1985 0JJlltfllfbittt.Sfs LETTERS Foundni at limon Calles~ 1877 ------------ --------· Dorm Safety While we might sometimes feel that Union is its Qwn little utopia, separate from the rest of Schenectady, the recent incident at West College involving the removal of two male youths from the dormitory at 5 q.m ..• should serve to remind us that Union is not an island imto itself. While most visitors to our campus from the area are just friendly townspeople passing through, there are some who should be avoided. It is for this reason that 1:he dorms must be kept locked. Yet, students are continually holding doors open for strangers or propping them open for an expected friend from another dorm. Warnings from residents advisors and Security do not seem to be helping the situation, either. Despite signs posted on dorm doors, students persist in propping doors open instead of using their keys. Granted, this is more convenient, and dorm break-ins are infrequent occurrences, but think of it this way . . . the stereo you save could be your own. So keep outside dorm doors locked and lock your own door when you leave_your room or go to sleep. The problem is not so great that we need to be afraid ... just aware. To use an old cliche, it is better- to be safe than sorry. Exciting Prospects Can you stand yet another editorial on campus construction? Well, bear with us just one more time .. This time, dust in the lungs will not be discussed. Rather, the focus now will be on the excitement that accompanies the construction. Take care to :read \Campus Will Change Facet! beginning on the front page. What awaits us (well, some of us) at Union is simply spectacular! Life on campus in 1987 will be different, no doubt. More aptly put, life will be much more exciting, elegant even. Future Dutclnnen will certainly be living in style. What an exciting prospect! A new place to \hang out\ and people watch, a new theater, a new restaurant, a new mailroom-everything will be so new and exciting. It's going to be great. Although many of us here right now will not be here to witness the College Center and the gymnasiwn \become ~s 'Vice-President Hauser states, \a reality together,'' we will leave with the satisfaction of knowing the Union tradition will live on And you can bet that the percentage of alumni returning for Hom~coming will surely increase! construction on Carnegie may be an inconvenience, but the finished product will be well worth it. Professor Re-a~ts to F.ditorial- · To the Editor: Re your editorial entitled ''Responsibilities'' : ( 1) If Concordiensis is a medium of communication, you couldn't prove it by that piece. What thought does it attempt to communicate? (2) You have evidently misconstrued the meaning of the word \journalize.\ Accountants .and diarists journalize; journalists nor- mally do not. Perhaps if you had used an authoritative dictionary instead of the New World (which has purloined the Webster name), you would not have been so badly misled. (3) Where on earth did you find that peculiar notation of pronunciation? . ( 4) If you are providing a record of hisotry, please strive for greater accuracy. In the same issue, you misspelled my name and turned the last sente11ces of the twelfth point in my memo into unintelligible garble. (5) May I go on to suggest, most humbly, that your purpose as a campus newspaper extends well beyond recording history (whatever that pompous phrase might mean). The current discussion of curricular reform, for example, calls for a much more vigorous response than is evidenced by your passive role in printing handouts from Professor Zwicker's subcouncil. (By the way, since my memo was addressed to the faculty, shouldn't you .have checked with me before printing it? I would not have obJected, but the courtesy would have been appreciated.) Had Woodward and Bernstein been content to do nothing more than convey the handouts made available by the Nixon administration, Gerald Ford would never have become President. Had Con- cordiensis not had a more ambitious notion of its function during the late seventies, Tom Bonner might still be Union's President. Your responsibilities as journalists are not acquitted by journalizing. Nor are they satisfied by pasting the pages at your disposal with cuttings from the CPS. FrankGado V a~dalisin Angers Fraternity To the Editor: Recently, the Union College Campus was vandalized by a person or group of people who used spray paint to spread their destruction. While we, the brothers of Sigma Chi, never condone this type of behavior, it was especially upsetting to us that the Greek letters representing Sigma Chi were used as the subject of the painting. This is not the type of behavior that the brothers of Thanks Expressed To the Editor: Many thanks to those who contributed to the Mexican Relief Fund last Thursday. The newly established Spanish Club should be congratulated in particular for their fine efforts under the leadership of Jack Barry. ~ For those still wishing to contribute, you may send your donations to Mrs. Marra in 3rd floor Old Chapel. The 400,000 people left homeless from the earthquake will appreciate it. For the Student Forwn, Chris Siler President All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must be sig~ed but names will be - withheld upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Sigma Chi are known for, or want to be recognized for. We have always done our best to uphold the environment of the college. AnY destruction caused to the campus would not only give us unneeded publicity, but would blacken the very enironment that we all have to conduct our daily lives in. The brotherhood of Sigma Chi would like to be known for community service, athletics, and the pursuit of high academic standards. Destruction of school property has never entered into our itinerary and never will. We are very upset that a single person or group of persons feels the need to take out their frustrations by using the brotherhood of Sigma Chi as scapegoats. The type of behavior exhibited by these few students is not supported by, and in no way reflects on, the high standards that our brotherhood strives for. Sincerely, The Brothers of Sigma Chi \Oh sure. I just love midterms. lA fact. they're my favorite pastime outside of watching soap operas and eating refined sugar.\· - '-' ~ - .. . \ • - \' ' 1 \\ ·\ i ..... '\ .. f. ?< ~ \ ·.; .; •• • - ;1, - ,.. ..... ,. ' ~ II' .:.. .$ \\ .. \ -~ \> ' • '· ~ :t '-' ¥ • ~ .t' • .: ' • a U, Las plane Tunis destr{] the F montt have I comm terror This I retalil series Israel murd~ Cyprt ForcE unit c Tunis for t tradi1 Reag1 -left· I condE serim; polic: terroi The and legal was , Israel warni that t same Las attacl lives const: affect all I every terrm will o: these Th€ first J that : ~ 1 t j f 1

Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 10, 1985 Olnltfllrbtrnsis Fowukd al l lmon Col/~~ 1877 ------------ --------· Dorm Safety While we might sometimes feel that Union is its own little utopia, separate from the rest of Schenectady, the recent incident at West College involving the removal of two male vouths from the dormitory at 5 ~.m ... should serve to remind us that Union is not an island unto itself. While most visitors to our campus from the area are just friendly townspeople passing through, there are some who should be avoided. It is for this reason that the dorms must be kept locked. Yet, students are continually holding doors open for strangers or propping them open for an expected friend from another dorm. Warnings from residents advisors and Security do not seem to be helping the situation, either. Despite signs posted on dorm doors, students persist in propping doors open instead of using their keys. Granted, this is more convenient, and dorm break-ins are infrequent occurrences, but think of it this way ... the stereo you save could be your own. So keep outside dorm doors locked and lock your own door when you leaveyour room or go to sleep. The problem is not so great that we need to be afraid ... just aware. To use an old cliche, it is better to be safe than sorry. Exciting Prospects Can you stand yet another editorial on campus construction? Well, bear with us just one more time .. This time, dust in the lungs will not be discussed. Rather, the focus now will be on the excitement that accompanies the construction. Take care to read \Campus Will Change Face\ beginning on the front page. What awaits us (well, some of us) at Union is simply spectacular! Life on campus in 1987 will be different, no doubt. More aptly put, life will be much more exciting, elegant even. Future Dutchmen will certainly be living in style. What an exciting prospect! A new place to \hang out\ and people watch, a new theater, a new restaurant, a new mailroom-everything will be so new and exciting. It's going to be great. Although many of us here right now will not be here to witness the College Center and the gymnasium \become as Vice-President Hauser states, \a reality together,'' we will leave with the satisfaction of knowing the Union tradition will live on And you can bet that the percentage of alumni returning for Homecoming will surely increase! .,.~, '\'l;:?IE:'''7:r::'\\\'\ ,, Rft - .. Construction on Carnegie may be an inconvenience, but the finished product will be well worth it. LETTERS Professor Reacts to Editorial · To the Editor: Re your editorial entitled \Responsibilities\: (1) If Concordiensis is a medimn of communication, you couldn't prove it by that piece. What thought does it attempt to communicate? (2) You have evidently misconstrued the meaning of the word \journalize.\ Acco1:1ntants and diarists journalize; journalists nor- mally do not. Perhaps if you had used an authoritative dictionary instead of the New World (which has purloined the Webster name), you would not have been so badly misled. (3) Where on earth did you find that peculiar notation of pronunciation? ( 4) If you are providing a record of hisotry, please strive for greater accuracy. In the same issue, you misspelled my name and turned the last sentences of the twelfth point in my memo into unintelligible garble. ( 5) May I go on to suggest, most humbly, that your purpose as a campus newspaper extends well beyond recording history (whatever that pompous phrase might mean). The current discussion of curricular reform, for example, calls for a much more vigorous response than is evidenced by your passive role in printing handouts from Professor Zwicker's subcouncil. (By the way, since my memo was addressed to the faculty, shouldn't you have checked with me before printing it? I would not have objected, but the courtesy would have been appreciated.) Had Woodward and Bernstein been content to do nothing more than convey the handouts made available by the Nixon administration, Gerald Ford would never have become President. Had Con- cordiensis not had a more ambitious notion .of its function during the late seventies, Tom Bonner might still be Union's President. Your responsibilities as journalists are not acquitted by journalizing. Nor are they satisfied by pasting the pages at your disposal with cuttings from the CPS. FrankGado Vandalism Angers Fraternity To the Editor: Recently, the Union College Campus was vandalized by a person or group of people who used spray paint to spread their destruction. While we, the brothers of Sigma Chi, never condone this type of behavior, it was especially upsetting to us that the Greek letters representing Sigma Chi were used as the subject of the painting. This is not the type of behavior that the brothers of Thanks Expressed To the Editor: Many thanks to those who contributed to the Mexican Relief Fund last Thursday. The newly established Spanish Club should be congratulated in particular for their fine efforts under tht- leadership of Jack Barry. For those still wishing to contribute, you may send your donations to Mrs. Marra in 3rd floor Old Chapel. The 400,000 people left homeless from the earthquake will appreciate it. For the Student Forum, Chris Siler President All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Sigma Chi are known for, or want to be recognized for. We have always done our best to uphold the environment of the college. Any destruction caused to the campus would not only give us unneeded publicity, but would blacken the very enironment that we all have to conduct our daily lives in. The brotherhood of Sigma Chi would like to be known for community service, athletics, and the pursuit of high academic standards. Destruction of school property has never entered into our itinerary and never will. We are very upset that a single person or group of persons feels the need to take out their frustrations by using the brotherhood of Sigma Chi as scapegoats. The type of behavior exhibited by these few students is not supported by, and in no way reflects on, the high standards that our brotherhood strives for. Sincerely, The Brothers of Sigma Chi .. Oh sure. I just love midterms. In fact, they're my favorite past~me outs1de of watching soap operas and eating refined sugar.\ Editors-i.n..chi.ef Sarah Caldetini, Linda Raffaele News E'ditors . Janl3aran; Maureen Coleman Featu!es l£-ditor- . . . , . Maggi~Bpitano, Mi~ey .Br.a~ey AssoetateFeatures EditGr · LeeAJ:tn Scfunidt Comnaentary Page Editor · . . . . .·. . .· . .. ·. . . Greg Fay. ArtsEldttQtS . . I)ebbie~pert,/J:Od Dinlmfek · cam.pus Fiage'Editors Sarbar:l'Doyle; Katen Ruga Sports Editors.. . . . . . . . ~ilY Grq~~n 1 Charlie Sl<Jtni~ A.dvetti$inlrEditor$: ~'bb1e;~ose~:;Q11latSJ:tpp~UlutenSobel Assoc. A:dv-: Editor · ·. ·. . Atn:y Ros~nkt'antz Busine~sManB.g¢1'$ Keith Conklin, Nancy Grwtdman Photo Editor . . · Dave Gruber Associate PhotGEditot Smart Od¢11 $port~'Photo Elfittit~ . . . ... .lJOtdd~och. Pat Merritt subSctirptivnsl:t.llt~rs BSllF:-~rn~ker~ D~lmel Ninoli Oamie , Fttkt . ~ li 11 r~ \ ~ I l ~I ., - - u La: plan« Tuni: destr, the l mont have comr terro: This • ret ali serie: Israe murc Cypr Fore unit Tilllil for tradi Reag left cond serio polic terro Thi and legal was Isra€ warn that sam~ La: attac lives consl affec all ever: terra willc these Th first that ~

CONCORDIENSIS, OctoberlO, 1985 Page9 U.S. Policy Toward Israel By JEFF MICHELS Last week Isr~eli figher planes flew 1,500 miles to Tunisia and successfully destroyed the headquarters of the P.L.O. For the last six months these headquarters have been the P.L.O.'s central command post for launching terrorist attacks against Israel. This Israeli strike was in direct retaliation for an increased series of terrorist · attacks on Israel, which included the murder of three Israelis in Cyprus. A group calling itself Force Seventeen, a commando unit of the P.L.O., trained in Tunisia, claimed respopsibility for the murders. The con• tradicting reaction by the Reagan Administration not only - left · Israel on its own to be condemned but has raised serious questions about our oWn policy in dealing with terrorism. · The Israeli strike was pure and direct retaliation. Their legal and moral justification was one of self-defense. The Israelis used this raid to issue a warning to future terrorist acts that they will be mef with the same sort of retaliation. Last month alone terrorist attacks were responsible for the lives of fifteen Israelis. The constant threat of terrorism affects the interpersonal lives of all Israelis on almost an everyday basis. Such acts of terrorism that go unpunished will only result in an increase of these acts. The Reagan Administration's first reaction to the strike was that it was- \legitimate.'' The White House issued the statemefit that \As a .matter of U.S. policy, retaliation against terror attack is a legitimate response and an expression of self-defense.\ This action held consistent with U.S. policy toward terrorism. This sort of strike is something th~t Reagan has been talking about since the Marines were killed in Beirut. The -day after the first statement,· the Administration backed away from its original support of the strike and said that the Israeli raid was \un- derstandable as an expression of self-defense\ but the strike \cannot be condoned.\ Here the U.S. is clearly backing away from its original support of the Israeli raid. At the same time the Tunisian government, who referred to the Israeli strike as \state terrorism\ demanded a vote of censure against Israel .for \an act of armed aggression.\ The U.S. abstained from the vote, which ended in a 14-o con- demnation of Israel. The change in Administration policy was due to an assortment of reasons. It is the fear of the Administration. that such a positive support of the strike could pos&ibly leave U.S. em- bassies target for attack or that it could even cost the lives of the six U.S. hostages still in Lebanon. Also the Reagan Administration which at times is more interested in public relations rather than national interest was more interested in not only avoiding criticism from other Arab countries but was afraid that Tunisia would break off diplomatic relations. Thus Act 1 : Jim Hassenfeld Act 2,: Chris Siler With a Special M. C. (Yes West, He is Back!) instead of the Administration acting in the national interest, to support the Israel fight against terrorism, they acted with more concern to avoid being criticized. Secretary of State Shultz revealed that the U.S. had originally encouraged Tunisia in '82 to absorb P.L.O personnel when they were forced out of Beirut. This is no excuse for the Administration's response. Tunisia, who accused Israel of \state terrorism\ took the P.L.O. in as their guest and as a hosting nation to terrorists it is Tunisia's responsibility to oversee that its g~est x:emain peaceful and not instead allow the P.L.O. to launch from their country major terrorist operations. It is Tunisia who must bear some of the responsibility for putting themselves in this situation. The Reagan Administration has abandoned Israel and its fight to combat terrorism by instead of voting against the U.N. vote \to condemn Israel\ for the raid the U.S. abstained, thus remaining neutral. The Administration's change from supporting Israel's \legitimacy\ for the strike to a contrad,Jcting view that the strike \can't be condoned\ makes our own \talked about\ policy of retaliation for terrorist acts seem hypocritical. Our Administration's courage to stand up against terrorism has been weakened substantially while at the same time it has deserted Israel, while Israel faces harsh criticism from the U.N. Thurs., 10 p.m. ·Admission $1.50 Tickets available in Old Chapel • Ticket Booth 1st floor MASS MAILING RULES FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS 1) All mass mailings will be done by the mailroom staff, regardless of the size of the mailing. Absolutely NO ONE will be allowed in the back of the mail room for any reason. 2) All mass mailings should be delivered to the mail room 3 days prior to the desired delivery date to insure delivery. Calling ahead of time does not insure a mailing date. The mail should actually be delivered to the mail room 3 days before the mailing date. 3) To insure proper handling and delivery of the mail, each article should be addressed with the recipient's full name and box number, as well as the address. Any mass mailing without box numbers will be returned to the sender. ' 4) All mass mailings must be in numerical box number order or else it will be returned to the sender. (Note: Student boxes run from 1 to 2325, and from 2501 to 2596 for fraternities and clubs. Numbers in the ZBT .directory starting with '6' are phone numbers, not box numbers.) 5) All mass mailings must be on pieces of paper measuring a! least 4\ x 9\ (letter size), or else it will be returned. 6) Mail delivered to students whose boxes are temporarily closed will be returned to the sender. 7) As an added service, we will now be able to deliver mass mailings to a particular class, i.e. the freshmen, sophomores, juniors or seniors. Simply indicate on the mailing which class it should go t9, if it applies. The Student Mail is now open from 8:00a.m. to.S:OO p.m. the-window service is open from 11 ;30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Please drop off mass mailings during Window hours only. If you have any questions regarding the Student Mailroom, please contact Chris Shiely at ext. 6372. . ' COMMENTARIES Subcouncil on Curriculum Friend or Foe By ERIC UPMAN Recently, the. pages of Con- cordiensis have been filled with the public statements of Union College's newest \prestige\ committee--the Academic Affa:irs Sub-Council on Curriculum. And, since the statements entered in to the newspaper are longer than most of us would rather read, it is conceivable that much of what the sub-council does will be ignored. This presents a very dangerouse possibility. Clearly, if the Subcouncil is left to its own designs, convinced that the student body could not care less about the structure of curriculum at the College, the grade-point-average of every Union student is in jeopardy. To understand why this is so, one must first understand a little about the issues the sub- council will be addressing, and a bit about what panels like this usually do. In recent years, a number of the faculty members have been critical of Union's \Liberal Learning\ approach to education. Their complaints focus on the fact that many of the courses for non-majors have become known as \gut cour- ses,'' and this therefore un- dermines the morale of all of those majors who have to take the \real for-major courses. That is to say, Biology majors are upset that someone from the Humanities can take \easier\ Biology courses than they can. -I The idea that is quietly smuggled into this criticism, is that all students, whether you are an engineer or ati major, should be held to identical standards in every academic discipline. At most, that idea is flawed and wrong, while at very least it is an idea that could impair. the G P A's of both Philosophers and Biologists alike. Now the question must naturally be: Why would Professors Zwicker, Thurston, Cooper (and Student Representative Kat by Keaveny, too) want to do such things: They're nice people, why would they want to \bust the chops's of Union students? The only answer I can submit is that they are nice people, but if one were only to \stand in their shoes\ for a moment, the reason why they want, or have a vested interest in, change becomes clear. Members of the Subcouncil of AC'ademic Affairs are ap- pointl'd, and chances are good that the friends and colleagues of these members know that they serve on the committee. So imagine if you will a con- versation between Subcouncil member Professor X, and a fellow faculty member who leans over the lunch table and says: \Hey X, what is this Subcouncil stuff you are in- volved with? What are you guys up to these days?\ An ap- propriate answer for Professor X is not: \Oh we are looking at the options, but I think we should keep things the way they are ... \ No clearly the answer that makes Professor X looks good is to say, \Oh we are looking at all the options, but I think we will propose some significant and important changes ... \To be in favor of doing nothing at all with the cirriculum is to be a do-nothing, while to be in favor of change, is to be a reformer, a progressive! What would you rather be? If you fear change that is made for the sake of change, the question· must be: Does the Subcouncil mean what it says? And will the proposed changes affect niy grades or education? I hope it is a question that students will take to heart because in the final analysis, it is the students, not the faculty, that will\be graded under the new system. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB will meet on. Thursday, 1 0 /17 7:00. 55016 Topic for discussion: South Africa 3rd Annual Fall Student PHONATHON Mon.,Nov.11 & Tues.,Nov.12 5:30 ·9:30p.m. Lower Lounge • Hale House Dinner 5:30, Calling beings 6: 30, Sign up sheets posted in residence halls. · RSVP Annual Fund Office bY Nov. 1 with your team- x6174. PRIZES * FUN * FOOD 4 to a team. HURRY 1st come, 1st serve basis . Anyone who is interested in performing Homecoming Cabaret Contact Mark at 370-6637 Before Monday, Oct. 14th. Auditions will be held Soon!!

A l I ! ·I I ' i j i l ,I ., CONCORDIEN51S, October 10, 1985 Page9 U.S. Policy Toward Israel By JEFF MICHELS Last week Israeli figher planes flew 1,500 miles to Tunisia and successfully destroyed the headquarters <ilf the P.L.O. For the last six months these headquarters have been the P.L.O.'s central command post for launching terrorist attacks against Israel. This Israeli strike was in direct retaliation for an increased series of terrorist attacks on Israel, which included the murder of three Israelis in Cyprus. A group calling itself Force Seventeen, a commando unit of the P.L.O., trained in Tunisia, claimed responsibility for the murders. The con- tradicting reaction by the Reagan Administration not only left Israel on its own to be condemned but has raised serious questions about our o\vn policy in dealing with terrorism. The Israeli strike was pure and direct retaliation. Their legal and moral justification was one of self-defense. The Israelis used this raid to issue a warning to future terrorist acts that they will be met with the same sort of retaliation. Last month alone terrorist attacks were responsible for the lives of fifteen Israelis. The constant threat of terrorism affects the interpersonal lives of all Israelis on almost an everyday basis. Such acts of terrorism that go unpunished will only result in an increase of these acts. The Reagan Administration's first reaction to the strike was that it was \legitimate.\ The White House issued the statemeflt that ''As a matter of U.S. policy, retaliation against terror attack is a legitimate response and an expression of self-defense.'' This action held consistent with U.S. policy toward terrorism. This sort of strike is something that Reagan has been talking about since the Marines were killed in Beirut. The day after the first statement,· the Administration backed away from its original support of the strike and said that the Israeli raid was \un- derstandable as an expression of self-defense\ but the strike \cannot be condoned.\ Here the U.S. is clearly backing away from its original support of the Israeli raid. At the same time the Tunisian government, who referred to the Israeli strike as \state terrorism\ demanded a vote of censure against Israel for \an act of armed aggression.\ The U.S. abstained from the vote, which ended in a 14-0 con- demnation of Israel. The change in Administration policy was due to an assortment of reasons. It is the fear of the Administration. that such a positive support of the strike could possibly leave U.S. em- bassies target for attack or that it could even cost the lives of the six U.S. hostages still in Lebanon. Also the Reagan Administration which at times is more interested in public relations rather than national interest was more interested in not only avoiding criticism from other Arab countries but was afraid that Tunisia would break off diplomatic relations. Thus Act 1 : Jim Hass.enfeld Act 2: Chris Siler With a Special M.C. (Yes West, He is Back!) instead of the Administration acting in the national interest, to support the Israel fight against terrorism, they acted with more concern to avoid bemg criticized. Secretary of State Shultz revealed that the U.S. had originally encouraged Tunisia in '82 to absorb P.L.O personnel when they were forced out of Beirut. This is no excuse for the Administration's response. Tunisia, who accused Israel of \state terrorism\ took the P.L.O. in as their guest and as a hosting nation to terrorists it is Tunisia's responsibility to oversee that its guest remain peaceful and not instead allow the P.L.O. to launch from their country major terrorist operations. It is Tunisia who must bear some of the responsibility for putting themselves in this situation. The Reagan Administration has abandoned Israel and its fight to combat terrorism by instead of voting against the U.N. vote \to condemn Israel\ for the raid the U.S. abstained, thus remaining neutral. The Administration's change from supporting Israel's \legitimacy\ for the strike to a contradicting view that the strike \can't be condoned\ makes our own \talked about\ policy of retaliation for terrorist acts seem hypocritical. Our Administration's courage to stand up against terrorism has been weakened substantially while at the same time it has deserted Israel, while Israel faces harsh criticism from the U.N. Thurs .. , 10 p.m. -Admission $1.50 Tickets available in Old Chapel - Ticket Booth 1 st floor MASS MAILING RULES FOR ALL DEPARTMENTS 1) All mass mailings will be done by the mailroom staff, regardless of the size of the mailing. Absolutely NO ONE will be allowed in the back of the mail room for any reason. 2) All mass mailings should be delivered to the mail room 3 days prior to the desired delivery date to insure delivery. Calling ahead of time does not insure a mailing date. The mail should actually be delivered to the mail room 3 days before the mailing date. 3) To insure proper handling and delivery of the mail, each article should be addressed with the recipient's full name and box number, as well as the address. Any mass mailing without box numbers will be returned to the sender. 4) All mass mailings must be in numerical box number order or else it will be returned to the sender. (Note: Student boxes run from 1 to 2325, and from 2501 to 2596 tor fraternities and clubs. Numbers in the ZBT directory starting with '6' are phone numbers, not box numbers.) 5) All mass mailing::. mu~l be on piece::. of paper measuring a I leas I 4\ x 9\ (letter :;izc), or cl5c it will be returned. 6) Mail delivered to students whose boxes are temporarily closed will be returned to the sender. 7) As an added service, we will now be able to deliver mass mailings to a particular class, i.e. the freshmen, sophomores, juniors or seniors. Simply indicate on the mailing which class it should go t9, if it applies. The Student Mail is now open from 8:00a.m. to 8:00p.m. The window service is open from 11 ;30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Please drop off mass mailings during window hours only. If you have any questions regarding the Student Mailroom, please contact Chris Shiely at ext. 6372. COMMENTARIES Subcouncil on Curriculum Friend or Foe By ERIC LIPMAN Recently, the pages of Con- cordiensis have been filled with the public statements of Union College's newest ''prestige\ committee--the Academic Affairs Sub-Council on Curriculum. And, since the statements entered in to the newspaper are longer than most of us would rather read, it is conceivable that much of what the sub-council does will be ignored. This presents a very dangerouse possibility. Clearly, if the Subcouncil is left to its own designs, convinced that the student body could not care less about the structure of curriculum at the College, the grade-point-average of every Union student is in jeopardy. To understand why this is so, one must first understand a little about the issues the sub- council will be addressing, and a bit about what panels like this usually do. In recent years, a number of the faculty members have been critical of Union's \Liberal Learning\ approach to education. Their complaints focus on the fact that many of the courses for non-majors have become known as \gut cour- ses,\ and this therefore un- dermines the morale of all of those majors who have to take the \real for-major courses. That is to say, Biology majors are upset that someone from the Humanities can take \easier\ Biology courses than they can. The idea that is quietly smuggled into this criticism, is that all students, whether you are an engineer or art major, should be held to identical standards in every academic discipline. At most, that idea is flawed and wrong, while at very least it is an idea that could impair the GPA's of both Philosophers and Biologists alike. Now the question must naturally be: Why would Professors Zwicker, Thurston, Cooper (and Student Representative Kathy Keaveny, too) want to do such things: They're nice people, why would they want to \bust the chops's of Union students? The only answer I can submit is that they are nice people, but if one were only to \stand in their shoes\ for a moment, the reason why they want, or have a vested interest in, change becomes clear. Members of the Subcouncil of Arademic Affairs are ap- pointed, and chances are good that the friends and colleagues of these members know that they serve on the committee. So imagine if you will a con- versation between Subcouncil member Professor X, and a fellow faculty member who leans over the lunch table and says: ''Hey X, what is this Subcouncil stuff you are in- volved with? What are you guys up to these days?\ An ap- propriate answer for Professor X is not: \Oh we are looking at the options, but I think we should keep things the way they are ... \ No clearly the answer that makes Professor X looks good is to say, \Oh we are looking at all the options, but I think we will propose some significant and important changes ... \To be in favor of doing nothing at all with the cirriculum is to be a do-nothing, while to be in favor of change, is to be a reformer, a progressive! What would you rather be? If you fear change that is made for the sake of change, the question· must be: Does the Subcouncil mean what it says? And will the proposed changes affect my grades or education? I hope it is a question that students will take to heart because in the final analysis, it is the students, not the faculty, that will be graded under the new system. INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS CLUB will meet on Thursday, 1 0 /17 7:00. 55016 Topic for discussion: South Africa 3rd Annual Fall Student PHONATHON Mon., Nov. 11 & Tues., Nov. 12 5:30 .. 9:30 p.m. Lower Lounge - Hale House Dinner 5:30, Calling beings 6:30, Sign up sheets posted in residence halls. RSVP Annual Fund Office by Nov. 1 with your team- x6174. PRIZES * FUN * FOOD 4 to a team - HURRY 1st come, 1st serve basis Anyone who is interested in performing Homecoming Cabaret Contact Mark at 370-6637 Before Monday, Oct. 14th. Auditions will be held Soon!!

Page 10 GOOD fOR CONCORDIENSIS, October 10.1985 SPORTS CENTER n1aking things h?Jppen . . I Offering you •7 Stations of Naujtilus . •Free Weights • Pro Star Super H at:k Sled •Team Pr.ograms • R eh abi I it alive E.x e rei se Programs •shape-up & Fitness Programs •Strength & Condl1ioning' . Programs •3-12 Month Memberships ONE FREE TRIAL SESSlO~ Let OTR Sports Center Design A personal program to fit you Call for ~tour appointment todm (518) 393~5032 204 So. Ten Broeck St.. Scotia. N.Y. • Jazzercise *Student Specials* ' lie at .S{;if ~ t~teJH~ . }(Alit tp /J1Y_jf!e, YDI1 fp . KU/1--UP-f-!ltlr *1oJ)d/~~/(~_,, allllt'J-H'Wt_y.4ur 9rAde?.l . Let us be your 11 Total Salon•• Haircut/Design Perms Colour Facials Waxing Me~ke .. up Body Wraps Nail Lengthe~ing 15% Discount with Union ID card and 10o/o Discount with Ad Offer expires Oc1. 24 · Our designers have been trained by SASSOON of London and JINGLES, N.Y.(:. ~fre Mth1n AlA'~ NIT 1't71'J1NL$./ Gooding Skin Systems 37 4-0736 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1 ~305 PAPA CICCO'S PIZZA 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispat~hed delivery truck which enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and . we will send our well stocked truck to your location. SUNDAY IS SODA DAY . AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. PLAY the coupon game. for every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you will receive one coupon. Save them and col'lect · FREE merchandise. LARGE PARTIES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LErS MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE Calzones White Pizza Gourmet Pizza Hot Sandwiches Specialty Breads TRY OUR FAMOUS BROCCOLI PIZZA - - 1 - '

CONCORDIENSIS, October 10,1985 · Page 11 THE. ARTS RPI/UPAC Concert Board presents Windham Hill Recording Artists ....._SHADOWF AX- a:3o p.m. Friday I November 1, 1985 at RPI in West Hall Auditorium Tickets for the general pub I ic are $9.00. Ticket outlets are Music Shac·ks (AI.bany, Troy) and the Shelnutt Gallery in the RPJ Student Union. for more information, ca_ll 266-8585. Arts Club Sponsors Homecoming Events The Union Co.llege Arts Club will be sponsoring a photography contest and, with the Dance Club, a student musical per- formance. A reception for both events will follow the 5:00 per- formance. All ca.mpus photographers are invited to enter up to three of their best photos. The entries will be judged prior to their showing on Sat., Oct. 26th in the Arts Building. Entries are due by Tues./ Oct. 22nd in Mrs. Marra's office (3rd floor Old Chapel) .A nominal $1.00 entry fee is requested of all entrants and is due when photos are submitted. Prizes will be awarded at the reception. Anyone interested in participating in the Arts Club Homecoming Performance contact Steve at 346-0435. Elektra recording artist Howard Jones will be performing in Troy, N.Y. at RPI Fieldhouse on October 15 at8:00 p.m. Known as a thought-provoking writer and a skillful musician, Howard Jones is embarking on the second leg of his 1985 U.S. tour, bringing his brand of positive music to over 30 cities across the country. His album Dream Into Action has gone Top ·10 on the Billboard charts, with the first two singles '~Things Can Only Get Better\ and \Life In One Day\ reaching the Top 5 and the Top 20 respectively. The latest single release from the Dream Into Action album is ''Like To Get To Know You Well.\ The song has already reached Top 10 status in the U.K. and is rapidly climbing the U.S. charts. October Events UCFC Presents: October Events October lOth -11th-A Chorus Line, Proctor's Theatre 8 p.m. October 12th~Faust, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 13th-An Evening With VIetor Borge, Schenectady City Hall. October 15th-Howard Jones, R.P.I. Fieldhouse, 8 p.m. October 19th-Spyro Gyra, Palace Theater, 8 p.m.; The . Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem; Reunion Concert, · Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 25th-Ray Charles,. Palace Theater, 8 p.m .. October 26th-Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. October 26th-Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m.; A Salute To Gershwbl, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 27th-Allen Mills Halloween ·Organ Concert, Proctor's Theater, 3 p.m. October 29th-Royal Winnepeg Ballet, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. October 31$t-VIenna Symphony Orchestra, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. Sean Griffin anxiously awaits the return of Union's Latflpoone. It's Back By WENDY ZIMMERMAN and Doublas McClennan have Contributor gotten everything together for production and hopefully the Yes, it's back! After a two- first issue will be ready to print year absence from the Union in the very near future. The College campus, The Union Unknion Lampoone will also be Lampo one is . making a involved in such fund raisers as comeback! The Union Lam- a comedy radio show, roasts pooneisUnion'sonlyhumorous, and picnics, and T-shirt sales. satirical, and comical Anyone at all interested in magazine, compiled, edited, getting involved in this fun and and distributed by students of zany magazine please come to Union College. In addition, it is the meetings which are held also totally dependent on every Wednesday night at 8:30 student interest and activity. on third floor West. Any con- Editors in Chief Marlt Cioni tributions are welcome. This Weekend 10/11-13 7, 9, ll. 55016 Ticke1s $1.00 (on sale in Old Chapel) FROM YARNER BROS G A WARNER COMMUNICATIONS COMPANY IRI @1984 Warner Bros Inc All R1ghls Reserved ® '\REAR WINDOW' IS THE KIND OF MASTERPIECE THEY DON'T MAKE ANYMORE ••• It is a genuine thrill to have the real McCoy ba.:k on the marquee again.\ JAMES STEW ART IN ALFRED HITCHCOCI\'S REAR WINDO\V'T Rex~. NEW YORK POST ALSO STARRING GRACE KELLY Wed. 10/16 IPGlq flo A IIIIMI!JJ.l (l,l.//1( C> I~ UNIVERSAL CITV STUDIOS INC \'REAR WINDOW' IS A--- BRILLIANT EXERCISE IN SUSPENSE. everything about it is a joy.\ Vincent Canby. New York Tim..,. - 55016 7, 9, 11 Tickets $1.00 <on sale in Old Chapel) PAISA MIS~R 1&3 Jar St., Stda'dJ -lndiiiMoorts- 3'77-7173 .--- BJ:ing in coupo~• - ..... Complete Boutique Dresses, ~kirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. ,.....,..~_. Ap;tmjeijriiiiicaiiiniliiiiijilijlii

l Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, 'October 10, 1985 INTERNSHIPS -The National Clean Air Coalition is looking for full time intems. Programs are offered in the areas of Grassroots Organiz.ing, Public Relations, Political Science-Governmental Relations, Business-Accoun- ting, Research and Lobbying. There is no pay but academic credit can be arranged. -The New York State Department of · State 0mbud- sman offers an internship program to qualified ap- plicants. Interns will par- ticipate in research, telephone inquiries, and on-site in- spections among other things. A neat appearance, writing skills, and telephone manners are essential. -Freeze Voter needs interns for the fall and winter terms in the field of electoral politics. Interns will gain computer knowledge, conduct research, and learn the workings of a political action committee. Commitment to a nuclear freeze, organization, writing, phone, and typing skills are needed. -Equal Opportunity Publications is offering a $500 scholarship to eligible students. Applicants must be enrolled or plannjng to enroll in a full-time program in a 4-year college. GPA and extracurricular ac- tivities are important. Deadline is December 31, 1985. -The National Wildlife Federation offers Research Conservation Internships. Interns are involved in researching environmental policy issues and covering Congress. -The National Endowment for the Humanities offers grants to qualified applicants in the humanities area. Applicants must be 21 years or younger and must be an undergraduate student. Application deadline is November 1, 1985. -The New York State Assembly Intern program of- fers two programs in Albany. The Session Intern Program gives college students a chance to work in the state govern- ment. The Graduate Scholars Program is a full-time research position with Assembly leaders. Deadline is October . 25, 1985. -The New York State Senate Session Assistants Program is intended for students interested in state givernment. Applicants must be a resident citizen of New York State, and attending a New York University. Application deadline is October 14, 1985. -Mathematics and Science Education Fellowships are offered through Columbia University. Fellows will par- ticipate in a program to help them prepare for teaching positions. Applicants must be juniors or seniors either majoring or minoring in math or science. Application deadline is December 1, 1985. -Students who are members Spectacular ~i Fashions Along with our incredible selection of the finest alpine and crrn;s country ski equipment, we carry the area's largest selection of designer ski fashions. Top name fashions for men, 'NOIT'Ien & children on sale now. It's one thing 'to ski like a pro, but quite another to look like one .. Come in and see us now! 346-7293 1901 State St Schenectady §llillllllllll/111111111 11111111111111111 Hlllllllllillllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllll 11111111111!11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111~ ~ ~ iiil DO ~0-U ;; 5 , ~ = = .= = = = = = I WANNA DANCE? ! = = I The Pub is Back ; ~and 6 ~~!!~: ~~~~a~;er! I ~===_ Dining Hall this Saturday ~-~- Night0ctober12. s ~ *Snacks * Cash bar ; ~ *Dancing!* I 5 9 : 00 to 2 : 00 I I sponsored by The Student Forum ~ ~llfllllmiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHIIhiiMJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~ of a minority group (black, Spanish-surname, Native American) and who are in- terested in a career in radio broadcasting, WROW-AM is sponsoring a Minority Intern Program in conjunction with the New York State Division for Youth. If you would like to apply for a paid intern position at WROW-AM, send a letter e:l!;- plaining your interest to: WROW-AM Nelson A. Rockefeller Minority Intern Program 341 Northern Blvd. Albany, NY 12204 FINANCIAL AID -The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management offers a fellowship to minority students qualifying for ad- mission in a Masters in Business Administration program at one of the nine Consortium universities. The fellowship provides tuition and a $3,000 stipend for the first year of study and tuition plus a $2,000 stipend for the second year of study. Applications are ac- cepted throughout the year. For more information contact Magda Mininberg in the Financial Aid Office. CLUB NEWS Theatre Party to Proctor's- Sister Joan has a block of tickets for Chorus Line, Friday, October 11 at 8 p.m. Please call 370-6087. Rows E-H on Balcony Right. $15. Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, October 14 at 8 p.m. in second floor Conference Room of Whitaker House. Please use rear door. Newman Folk Group-All singers and musicians in- terested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Tutors for Computer Math & Reading-Anyone interested in· tutoring one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Liz Karazirn, Box 1842 or call 370-6853. Newman Newsletter-Me- eting for an those interested in working on the Newman News Staff. Thursday, October 10 at 7 p.m. in the second floor con- ference room of Whitaker House. If you are interested, but cannot attend, please contact Tina Sciocchetti at 370-2275. Please use rear door. Kindergarten Aides~ There will be a meeting for all Kin- dgergarten Aides on Thursday, October 10 at 7:30 p.m. in the second floor conference Room of Whitaker House. If you cannot attend and are still in- terested in being an aide please call Tina Sciocchetti at 370-2275. Please use rear door. Young Democrats Meeting- Thursday, Oct. 10, 7:30 p.m., Old Chapel Room-C. If you can't attend and are interested, call Nancy- 6701. .HELP WANTED. -Students interested in· telephone sales. Good cash pay. Evening work. For information please call 374-1492 or 374-5372. Ask for Bill or Kathy. Two blocks from campus. -Looking for student to do home & yard chores % day weekly. Within wal~ing distance of campus. Please centact 377-7235. -Wanted immediately. Student interested in mowing, cleaning up leaves on 3 acres of land--has tiding mower. Location - Lisha Kill Road, Schenectady $5.00 - hr. Please contact Catherine Carr at 785- 9056 (h) or 785-2352 (w). -..:Looking for student- weekend work, Fri. eve. 5-9, -, Sat. noon - 7, Sun. 8-6 - 25-26 hoqrs. Also possible evening work - Counter work - Giving change for laundromat, ac~ cepting and handing out dry cleaning orders. Location Albany St. just off C!\osstown East, Woodlawn area. Please contact 370-1055. Ask for Ralph (8-5). -Student to clean 3 nights -wk. - 9 hrs. wk. - M.W.Fri. beginning Oct. 9. Minimum wage. Catholic Family Services on Union St. next to St. John's Church. 372-5667. -Student needed for babysitting Sunday mornings 10:45 a.m. -12:15 p.m. for young children at )ocal church - walking distance from campus. $5.00-hr. Contact Sandra Stake at (w) 376-6174 or (h) 377-2440. NEW THIS FALL! UNION COLLEGE FALL SPECIALS Restaurant and Bar Mondays AlL DOMESTIC BEER Tuesdays ALL DRAFT BEER FREE Wednesdays CHICKEN WINGS Thursdays ICED TEAS Fridays MIXED HOUSE ~RINKS Saturdays LADY'S NIGHT MICHELOBS (All Specials begin atS p.m. and End at 12 Midnight) 501 Hattie Street, Schenectady (518) 393-0594 (one block from campus) $1.00 $3.00 2 FOR 1 $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 FOUR SEASONS C/1/NESE RESTAURANT Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Specialze in Cantonese, Szechuan & Hunan Hours: Sun·Thu 11:30·10:00 Fri-Sat 11:30-11:00 Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In We pre~re o~~r foods with •• ~ Just a Little Bit of Luck ·and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for Take .Out Orders Only W /Student I.D •. ·. . l83 Nott Terrae•: Across from Holiday Inn - - mit Oct WiJ S8( c - - ne· da1 m~ thE An COl Pa USE stu I dal thE Lil for 629 1 Ch: Po

, CONCORDIENSIS, October 10, 1985 Page 13 -Movies. The film com- mittee pres.ents \Tightrope\ on Oct. 11-13 at 7, 9, 11 and \Rear Window\ on Oct. 16 at 7, 9, 11 in SS016. Tickets are $1 ;00. BUS-PAC, will host a Meet-The- Candidates Cocktail Pa:M;y on Tuesday, October 15, from 5:00 to 7:00p.m. at the Turf Tavern, Scotia. Candidates for Schenectady City Council and County Board of Represen- tatives have been invited. The general public may also attend. The cocktail party will feature an open bar and hors d'oeuvres. C ' T A.S· '.·<\'. 'lrr:ifD'D· S 1 Cost. is $8.00, and reservations .L.i'1. JJ. -2.D. 1 will be taken at the Chamber ;;:======::::;;::::;==· . (372-5656) until the day before. -Computerized access to a newly created bibliographic database of women's studies materials is now available to the entire campus community. Any terminal on campus that connects to the Hewlett Packard minicomputer can be used to search the women's studies database. Instructions for using the database can be picked up at the Reference Desk in Schaffer Library - or, for more in- formation, call Ann Babits at 6294. The Schenectady County Chamber of Corrimerce and its Political Action Committee, -Those who have to pick up their refund money from the Whale Watch '85-'86 please contact the secretary in the Biology Department office - S324. -Typing: Resumes, manuscripts, term papers. etc. Call 6161,. 355-4863, or 355-8964. Ask for Robyn. ...,...Beautiful Dancing Productions is producing a collegiate compilation album. To ,be eligible a band must send us a tape with no more than two songs and a brief description of the group~ A photo is optional but would be helpful. 1'vE BEEN TOLt.Rt\N Of youi!.S PIND A FEW oT\-IER s STR A r-J <;E- 1-ffH~IrS! EUT NO M OR.E! DO\,J ~! For more information please contact Ken Makow at 1-212-614- 9714 .. The tapes should be sent to: Beautiful Dancing Productioas, c-o Ken Makow, 5 University Place, New York, New York 10003. PERSONALS JB-Are you really eating for two? otig-..,. What is a bikini wax anyway? Carolyn and Kate--Welcome back to U! How does it feel to be OLD and making money? Let's party after THE TEST! Skellar mate Dear M.W. (Webbie)- I am not a throat. -You know who! Good luck Union women r:uggers this Saturday! ! Get psyched for a great Win! Amy-Congratulations on a job well done. The race was a great success. Thanks for all YOV JIJ.ST 13A~E.t .. Y ,or ouT Of' 11-t f\T ONE : Nf1H! I KNE:W I'D 13E Okff( IF I LAME.. tN KEFORE=. \ PETE.! \ your hard work. Your effort was well appreciated. Amy 0: Saw you playing tennis. MUST have you·! Meet me at Nott 10..12 8 p.m. (Bring the Pizza) Lustful! yours S. Admirer Steve \THE CHEST\ K. You are ABSOLUTELY ADORABLE ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I want you in the Best way. Call me. Love Sid To my friends developing slanted eyes: I miss you guys a lot and hope you are having fun! Thanks for the letter. Love, Sarah To Steve Rinewald (the guy with the funny nose)- Thanks for a terrific eleven. I love you, ~itie · Roxanne, Forget HIM. Have ·fun w-wo me instead. Love Me. P.S. You're short. Darn cute .too!!! Hilary and EXCuSE ME .SIR! ;. ~ INDLY 13RIN G you f:. SELF A.ND\ '(ou K '' BoNG TO -n-JE. FFWf'li oP { TH£ ROOM. '----- Amy BEWARE! ! ! ! ! ! ! You are not to be friendly with ANY girls on campus. They are all floosies. L@veMommy P.S. Are you eating well? Dear Bebbie, Take off ya hozer!! LoveBebbie Dear Roomy, in terms of guys there are only three words ... Love Debbie Dearest Daniel H. Want a back-massage? I'll supply the bucket. Love, the Senior Beast D. Carr-How's the sushi? I hope you're liking it! I miss you a lot. Caldo Amy K-I miss you, too. SC To all male jerks that attend fraternity parties: (You know who you are! )-We are sick & tired of our rear ends being pinched, grabbed, or otherwise fondled! ! Hands off!!!! Signed, Manhandled Women It's your birthday -But- Your papa ain't ya papa SOYA PAPA DON'T KNOW! Happy Birthday from Lamar Latrel!! Patricia Marie, Happy 19th. We luv you-bruised or not. Love Rachel, Princess Anne and the missing Penni DEB: Three words ... three more words: no f-ing way!!! just three more words: I love you!!!!! Julie fO K -rl-\£ SA:kE OF \OIJR WELL! I G!Zf\.D£.5 (F\t-1 SE.~ g'( flic!.E G~ADE...- COVI..D \<OU T~<:.I-L M£ WHY '(ov ·n-1 f\T I t-1 MY CLf\ S S? ! I SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. .··\\ _... HAIR DESIGN Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIAL THRU OCT. 10 $12.00 HAIRCUTS with Ter·esa, Marcie and Gari only! * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off r£~~tai I with student I D. yovK TOOLS EX FLf\. tJ 1\T IOtJ <l f' ..,-H£ IHtH I '(OV DfVI L! DON T . Gf\R.E... F\tovT I ~ '< oo R GAA.D E:. • /\'\\\\ Debbie: hope you had an amazing 20th birthday. Was it good. for you? Love ya lots & lots, your roomie !Hey Chocolate Chip! HAPPY NINETEENTH-if you can't read this you need the eye test! ELOHELAY !Feliz Cumpleanos, Muy Bine Gracias! Happy .Birthday Dizzy Lizzy Love, EyeZir SORORITY RUSH SIGN UPS THIS WEEK AT DINNER IN WEST and LIBRARY PLAZA IN .AFTERNOONS SPANIS·H TABLE Meets Mondays for Lunch at 12:30 -Hale House- _;.£ r~~ •>+ \' ~ • ..-,...,,.JO .. t ~_.. ~\l' \..~' Y...t< , • ...,.~D~\~..o..)~.. .: -\f.h!•l 1 ·1•!.h·'·l•l''•''i+i'\·l t'l;t:l'\ll'~'' ''i'l,:•Hri:l.'tl'liri'h~•r!.h a:••;•,l l.'•l 1 '•H:~~·l,':l ltf·• l\fi :·:·~ '•!'t.;.,·, · ' .: ·

Now YOU can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards in the world ... V I'SA® and Mastercarc:;t® credit cards ... \in your name\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW .IN CREDITor HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! · VISA® and Mastercard® , the credit cards you deserve and need for* BOOKS-~<. ID *DEPARTMENT STORI;:S * TUITION * ENTERTAINMENT * EMERGENCY CASH* TICKETS* RESTAURANTS* HOTELS & MOTELS * GAS * CAR RENTALS * REPAIRS * AND TO BUIL.D YOUR CRED!IT RATING! This is the credit card informa.fion kit students have been reading about in publications from coast to coast and inclu<iles SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS for Mastercard & Visa as well as other .nation a rcharge card. Approval absolutely guaranteed so Hurry ... fill out this card today ... Your credit cards are waiting! • - .......... , ............ . 1 CREDITGETTER, BOX 291584, I I DA vI E, F L 33329 I .,.E .. $1 . . . . I I . · • I want VISA® /Masterca·rd® credit I I cards. Enclosed fi.nd $15 whi·ch is 100% I I refundable if not approved irnmedi.a:tely. · I I . I I_NAME I I I I ADDRESS I I I 1: CITY STATE ZIP I I PHONE. SOC. SECURITY# I I To CAPPELLO'S Come In - Try Our Pizza! Breakfast .. Lunch - Dinner · $1.00 r·------------------------------~-------~ OFF $1.00 OFF ON ALL 8-12-24 CUT PIZZA I I I I I I I I I I I With This Coupon Expires Dec. 30 . I .---CALl US: ~R6~ DELIVERY ~--m-•••••••---~-----•••••------••-••••-' TEt.#J46•J155- - 403 UN\ON ST.- ~ - NeAR \JN \ON CoLLEG-E.- ~ JOIN THE UNION RIDING CLUB Ride for Fun or I ntercollegiately * Expert Instruction * Group Rates Available * DISCOUNT RATES For Union Students For Information about riding for fun, group rates and discounts: Contact: Audrey.at BALLYBA·YFARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Cam pus or L<;>rraine Marra in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES Office in Old Chapel LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you enioy helping in- dividuals and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yourself a legitimate and con- scionable fee for your service in joining borrower and lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending (after we have taught you our system), without disturbi.ng what you are doing now for a living,. then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (Please do not apply if you have any objections to becoming a wealthy p~rson). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable .from first ' completed loans, (B.ased on 10% service charge up to $1 million, thereafterS%, $1 billion and over add 21J2%). Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry/ call 1-203- 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -au r 50th Anniversary 1935-1985- 1 ~ :, .I ~: , • • • ••• ·, .f - - ~---- ..,. ·----- ~ ~- -- .. - ... - ., -~ - . -- . --~ - ~- ·'. • ,: ~- .-. -~- J- ~.. . Try Our Pastas, Calzones Hot & Cold Italian Subs, Buffalo Chicken WJngs PHI SIGMA KAPPA The Par-ty Friday, October 11-9:30- Come Dressed To K11H The Former Dutch Hollow Pub has moved to Hale House Dining Room. Come on in and enioy our friendly staff and delicious food. Bring this ad in and receive a free beverage with the purchase ·of a sandwich or entree. Valid until October 20, 1985 ~- '• ·'' . { - )' \\ - •. .... ._. » .... ..,,.,. ...• _,.- \'1- • ,• \' - As conti wee~ Anth prov chm been defe1 frust effor 5'10\ on t roll\ start also tean chos Allal ' L! Wo11 trav with ove1 full ChVI shm R.P 32 a At Uni1 com Jen secc Shei forr: rac1 I

CONCORDIENSJS, October 10, 1985 PagelS SPORTS X-Country Looks To Improve thl-ete of the Week By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff Under rainy skies in Syracuse this past Saturday, the Union men's cross country team managed to score 2.65 points and finish in the top half at the Lemoyne InvitationaL Ricks and senior Ed Hart ran in the 5oth to 6oth position. McRobert's early fast pace seemed to catch up with him as he slowly dropped in the places to his finishing place of 68th. ' In the Dutchmen victory over By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor WPI this past Saturday, Valente As the Union football team continues its winning ways, this week's athlete of the week Anthony Valente continues to provide the spark to the Dut- chmen -defense. Valente has been the mainstay on•this year's defensive unit which has totally frustrated its opponents. His efforts have also earned the 5'10\ defensive lineman a spot on this week's ECAG ''honor .E roll\. Valente is a three-year o starter for the Dutchmen and a also serves as captain of the o· team. Last season he was V'l chosen a Pizza Hut First Team AllaAmerican. Anthony Valente was outstanding on defense. He recovered a fumble-on the WPI 25 yard line that led to the team's first three points. After that, Valente had nine first hits an.d seven assists to round out a superb defensive game. Defensive line coach Mike Toop said, \Valente has been playing real well. He's been drawing a lot of double teams and he's responded very well. His desire to get to the football is tremendous.\ · _ Thus, the Shelton, Con· necticutnative has provided the Dutchmen with the superb defense they need to earn a playoff spot this season. Congratulations to Anthony .Valente asthis week's athlete of the week. The Dutchmen's nine out of eighteen finish caused coach Russ Ebbets to be unhappy with how each individual ran. He believes each runner could have placed better resulting in a overall better team finish. As always happens in cross country, weather conditions affected their performance since they were running in muddy conditions created by previously run races. Senior Bill McRoberts led Union at the gun as he ran the first quarter of the race in 18th place followed by senior Chris O'Donnell in 3oth, junior· Bob Stenard in 40th and junior Neal O'Donnell used his strength and a steady pace to move up to a finishing time of 27:32 as Union's top runner in 16th place. Union's number two runner, Stenard, finished a full 1:13 behind O'Donnell in 46th place followed by Hart in 62nd place. After McRoberts, Ricks finished as fifth man in 76th place. Ricks' time of 29:46 made the difference between first and fifth runner two minutes and fourteen seconds, which is, again, too much of a spread for a team to do well. The Union Harriers attempt to improve on their overall team performance this Saturday when they travel to RPI for a dual meet with the Engineers. Women's X-Country Begins Season ByAMYWALsH Sports Staff Last Wednesday, the Women's Cross-country team travelled to Siena for a tri-meet with R.P.I. For the first time in over two years Union fielded a full team, and the Dut- chwomen's inexperience showed as they fell to both R.P.I. and Siena by scores of 23- 32 and 23-36 respectively. Amy Walsh was first for Union, covering -the 3.2 mile course in 20:29, with sophomore Jennie Lee only fourteen seconds behind. Freshman Jill Sheive turned in a fine per- formance in her first college race by placing third for Union, tenth over all, in 22: 03. Com- pleting the top five were sophomore Barb Etzel (23:29), and Lisa Neidham (23:30). Other Union finishers were: Lori Anderson 24:40, Gigi Giordano 24:54, Cathy Tremente 26:38, Penny Neubauer 26:45, Lisa Mer- cugliano 26:46, and Sandra Bahnir 29:35. Having one meet under their belt seemed to help the young Dutchwomen on Saturday when they traveled to LeMoyne for the LeMoyne Invitational. Despite the morning rain, which turned the hilly, 3.1 mile course into a series of mud slides, causing many runners to fall and slowing those who managed to remain upright, Union'steam placed ninth out of the thirteen teams that competed. Co-captains Amy Walsh and Jennie Lee finished 1-2 for the Dutchwornen; Walsh ended up 40th overall with a time of 20:46, while Lee was 50th with a time of 21:08. Freshman Hilary Henhind, in her first ooting for the team, placed 76th while classmate Jill Sheive was right behind in 88th. Lisa Neidham (93rd), Barb Etzel (99th), and _ Lori Anderson (106th) rounded ~ out the varsity team. - - ~ :: .... Ill ll. ·'i· >-. ·- .c 0 0 ..c: c. ... Just a Reminder that Winter Physicals will be given Oct. 13 in the Training Room, The women are looking forward to the Capitol District meet in Albany this weekend where they will have a change to redeem themselves against both Siena and R.P.I. Coach Ebbets believes· with the ex- perience of two meets already this year, the team will im- prove. Sophomore ·Paula Nado plays strong defense, however, the women's field hockey team lost to Oneonta 4·1 on the Astroturf. The team faces Williams today and RPI at home on Saturday at 9:30. All are encouraged to attend. Athletes - Try and stop by the training room between the hours of 9:00- n·: 30 and 1:00 to 3:00 to have your pre-physical work taken care of before the 13th. Many of the athletes just need to fill out paperwork & don't need an actual physicals since they have already had one. The schedule for each team is as follows: UNION DUTCHMEN FOOTBALL VS. RPI LIVE ON WRUC 89.7 FM Start your day with 11 Countdown to Touchdown\ at Ice Hockey ........ : .... 6:30 Men's Basketball. ....... 7:00 Men's Swimming ........ 7:30 Men's Track ............ 7:30 Come and Support Dutchmen Sports Teams At RPI This Saturdayl Soccer 11 :00 Football 1 :30 . . Women's Basketball ..... 7:45 Women's Swimming ..... 8:00 12:30 p.m. with your hosts Charlie Slotnik and Bob Koch. Women's Track._ ....... 8:00 Thanks, Tom & Louann x6136 Pregame Show at 1:00 Game time 1:30 Brought to you by .. Dutchmen Sports Network UNION BEVERAGE CORP. OPEN FOR BUSINESS 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McDonald$) HOURS: MON. thruSAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. 382-5958 Wo roserve tho right to limit quantltl ... Not responsible foto typographical errors. W•tch For Our Grand Opening Coming SCIOn! HEINE KEN LIGHT OR DARK PIELS EXPORT 5.38c- MILLER EXPORTS 13 99 Y2 KEG . • - · a.. BUSCH BUD EXPORTS $27.50 l0.39c- 8 . 99 Y2 KEG DRAFT BEER • Case BUD Halves & Quarters Available. · Plenty:J-,!-I.a...na · -- J33_._QQ_

<. .. Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, October 10, 1985 ;SPORT . . . blocked punt lifts Union over WPI Dutchmen Win Thriller By TED CANNON Sports Staff With Union trailing 10-6 in the fourt:b quarter, sophomore defensive end Craig Aaron blocked a punt and junior safety Steve Alves scooped it up and raced 52 yards to give the Dutchmen a hard fought 12-9 win. The win lifts Union to 4-0, while WPI shrinks to 2·2. The previous three games for the Dutchmen were not the most demanding on the schedule, but last Saturday's game was no pushover. Wor- cester came into the game hungry to reverse last season's 2()..1) Dutchmen win, and they came out smoking. WPI was able to do what no other team had done to the Dutchmen and that was move the football. The Engineers neatly combined a short passing game with a hard running game to come up with 293 yards of total offense. Although the Union defense may have bent, it did not break, and that can be credited to a great deal of pride and hussle. Senior linebacker Pat Wright characterized this by not giving up and chasing down .the WPI tightend after a 77 yard pickup, and making the tackle on the four yard line. Union did manage to get on the board first. Senior placekicker Greg Sticka's 27 yard first quarter fieldgoal gave the Dutchmen a 3-0 lead after one quarter. . In the second quarter W or- cester moved the ball, and after the key 77 yard completion, on a third and goal from the two, scored the first points of the year on the Union defense with a fip pass to the tightend. The score enabled Worcester to bring a 7-3 lead into the locker rooms at the half. \Worcester's score really woke us up,\ said senior linebacker Louis Hughes, \I think we played ·with much more intensity in the second halC' In the third quarter Union kicked to WPI, and established right off the bat that they were done moving the ball for the day:. Union was having trouble movmg the ball themselves, and could manage only a 28 yard field goal by Sticka. After three quarters Union still trailed 7-6. Enter the Aaron and Alves heroics in the fourth quarter. A strategic safety taken by Union late in the game produced the 12-9 final. For his performance in the game, senior noseguard Tony Valente was named to the ECAC weekly honor roll. This Saturday the Dutchmen travel to RPI to renew the oldest college football rivalry in New Yqrk state. Kickoff is 1:00. Volleyball Splits Pair By SPORTS STAFF The woman's volleyball team hosted its first horne tri- match against Williams and North Adams on October 3. The Dutchmen beat North Adams in straight .games 15 .. 3,.15•9 behind .strong serving and aggressive team offenses. In the second rnateh ag;;~.inst a strong Williams team, the Dutchmen and· new freshman talent. The team members are seniors Suzette Collier and Mary Forbes ( co-capts. ), Kris Ger• nert,. Janet Keyes, KI-na Mangino, junior Barbara Brady, sophomores Shelly Pino, and Nancy Shulz and .freshman Apn Hoban, Jane Hackett,. Melanie Masterson, and Nancy Stolz. .c u 0 I.L 1J ·c Ol c:: >- .0 The women's volleyball team faced Williams and North Adams last week. The team's record stands at 8-6. 0 +- 0 .s::. Q. Plattsburgh Blanks Ruggers lost in a grueling three game Also new to the team is coach set: 14-16, 15-5, 7-5 despite Bonnie Gehling who comes to superb team defense and Union College after coaching By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff It rained, and rained, and rained. By the time the rain stopped, Noah's Ark could be seen floating across Platt- sburgh State College's Rugby field. The field was wet, muddy, slimy, and cold. Union's Rugby team, ankle deep in Plattsburgh mud, fell to the Plattsburgh ruggers 18-0. \We played a good game,\ said Union rugger S.teve Konlian, \but the conditions weren't to our advantage.\ The conditions were definitely not to Union's advantage as they played a very tough first half but due to the rain and the ... +- ·c I- (!) ~ - ro a.. >- .0 0 - 0 .s:::. Q none of their brave players would sit down. A prime example of this was Captain John Friske who, on the first hit of the game broke his nose. Bloodied and seemingly beaten carne out on the very next play and the rest of the plays ofthe game hitting harder than ever. Tim Riley .had his usual great game-making several great tackles of his own along with a few good runs. Prop Steve Lipsky is off of the injured list and had a great game for the Union varsity squad. His superior propping and the incredible job he did spoiling Plattsburgh's line-outs earned him a place in this week's spotlight. co-captain Jeff Wilson and teammates converge on opponent. Ruggers play final game of the season on Saturday at Albany. poor quality of the playing field, ended up down by four at the half, 4-0. During the second half, Plattsburgh ended up scoring three more try's within a span of about ten minutes. The weather just seemed to drain the Union ruggers of some of the intensity they're known for. PTop Rob Sharp felt that Union's loss was due to a \lack of attack strategy. The fly-half should kick more. We need more of a balanced attack strategy,\ he said. As they are also known for, Union physically manhandled about ten of Plattsburgh's players Although Unit :1 suf- fered a few injurie,s thei .. ·dv~&, To top off the road trip, English exchange, student Matt Squires got caught between Canadian and American customs while trying to come back from Montreal on the night after the game. Getting past Canadian customs was easy, but American customs wouldn't accept him and didn't believe he had the right credentials to enter the country. Squires spent the night between customs before Union rugger Tim Hopkins could drive up from Union to bail him out. Union's mighty Killer B team won a close contest on the muddy field. The Killer B's beat Plattsburgh 9-8. Plattsburgll\-J;lcored ,a. q:u.wlt. try in the first half but missed the conversion to put them up 4-0 over Union. Pat DiCierbo brought the Killer B's within a point, 4-3, before the end of the first half after hitting an im- pressive penalty kick. Platt- sburgh made a try in the beginning of the second half but again missed the .conversion to put them ahead 8-3. It ·wasn't long, however, before a Union . scrurnrner scored a try to put the B's four points closer---8-7. DiCierbo converted the game winning points after the try to end the game 9-8. Kevin Fortin played very well in the fullback position. Meanwhile, Bob McGowan and Bruce Schwartzman seemed to provide the \Killer\ from the Killer B's as they both put or- ward their 100 percent effort to help their team's cause. Union's last regulation game of the fall season will be in Albany against Albany State on Saturday. Support Union Sports bustle. volleyball and. basketball or The tec;un's record now stands Wisconsin State. at 7~ with many of the losses This week the team will play COffil!lg from close ~atches. Lemoyne on Tuesday and This ye.ar's squad 1s a balance participate in the Oneonta of expenenced upperclassmen Tournament on Saturday. · GARNET SCOREBOARD Union 12 FOOTBALL (4-0) MEN'S SOCCER (5-0) WPI9 Union 2 Albany St. 1 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL {8-6) Union 15-3, 15-9 North Adams Williams 16-14,5-15, ml5\7 Union WOMEN'S SOCCER (3-4) Middlebury 4 Hamilton 3 FIELD HOCKEY (6-2-1) Oneonta St. 4 _ Unionl Union 1 Union 1 DUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK October 10- October 16 Thursday 10/10 Field Hockey at Williams Women's Tennis at Williams Friday, 10/11 J.V. Men's Soccer at R.P .I. Saturday, 10/12 Football at R.P.L SocceratR.P.I. Women's Soccer at R.P.I. Field HockeyatR.P.I. Men's & Women's Cross Country at .R. P .I. Volleyball at Oneonta Tourney Women's Tennis at R.P.I. Monday, 10/14 J.V. Football vs. R.P.I. Tuesday, 10/15 Women's Soccer at Williams Field Hockey vs. Siena J.V. Men's Soccer vs. Williams Volleyball at R.P.I., Hamilton Women's Tennis vs. Siena Wednesday, 10/16 Men's Soccer at Siena 4:00 4~00 3:30 1 :30 11 :00 2:00 9:30 1 :00 11;00 3:30 4:00 7:00 4:00 6:00 4:00 3:30 Division ·Ill Football Polls UPSTATE NEW YORK COACHES POLL 1. Ithaca (3-0) 2. UN ION (4-0) 3. Albany (3-1) 4. Hamilton (3-0) 5. St. Lawrence (2-1) LAMBERT/MEADOWLANDS POLL 1. Kings Point 2. Carnegie Mellon f.t.llf:, ''; ' ; • ' 3. UNION 4. Ithaca 5. Wagner 6. Mercyhurst 7. Hamilton 8. Franklin & Marshall 9. Gettysburg 10. C.W. Post 10. Washington & fer son Jet- - - c: - .... Cl.l ..c ::l i !... ' t!l > ro 0 .>- ..c E 0 .s::. Q. 11 p e c d f' I a f, r r t

CXV No.4 President Morris and Andrew George '86, Senior Trustee, honor Calvin Schmidt by presenting the Rathskellar Board endowment in his na.me. Calvin Schmidt Honored By IAN LEVIN Contributor Last Th11rsday, the Rathskellar Board formally presented Union College with an endowment in the name of Calvin G. Schmidt. The endowment will be divided into three funds: a freshman scholarship, a· J un1or Prize Day award, and an amount going to the st\).dent forum. The awards were named in honor of Calvin G. Schmidt for his long time association with the Rathskellar. During a reception for Mr. Schmidt in the Milano Lounge Thursday, speeches by President Morris and Andrew George praised Mr. Schmidt for his long devotion to the Rathskellar from the time of its creation. In fact, Mr. Sch- midt pointed out that he had helped with the laying of the electrical system of the Skellar when he was a student at Union. After two years in the army following his· graduation from Union in 1951, Mr. Schmidt returned to Union and quickly accepted the responsibility as faculty advisor to the Rathskellar. During the years associated with the Rathskellar, Mr. Schmidt found that his two most troublesome events were the decision to give ihe responsibilities of management to an outside food service and vandalism during the \rowdy\ sixties. During the early days of the Skellar, Mr. Schmidt thought it better to create a reserve fund ofthe Skellar in order to remove the temptation for the students from spending the profits. Through the years, this fund has accumulated to an extent where the Board C()Uld afford to deposit the large endowment. Food Elevator Vandalized By CHRISTINE HONG Staff On Monday, October 7, 1985, Wade-Lupe construction workers found the elevator for Hale House and the Old Chapel literally ripped apart. The elevator, located in the area under constmctiori, is another addition to the growing van- dalism cases found on the Union campus. area, he replied, \until con- struction is completed, that area under renovation is not College property but the p;-operty of the contractor. Therefore, they have to make their own provisions.\ Mr. Fitzgerald added that Security would be willing to \cooperate\ with the contractors; however, the contractors have not, as of yet, approached Fitzgerald. would be exactly. (The opening was set for this Friday.) Fur- thermore, the elevator, used to s:; u 0 Y. \0 ·.:: Ol c >- .0 0 - 0 s:; a. Continued on page 2 Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 October 17, 1985 Famed ·Scholar to Speak on Mid East By JAN BARAN News Editor At 8:00 p.m. on Thursday, October 24, 1985, Bernard Lewis, Professor of Near Eastern studies at Princeton University and a leading authority on the Middle East, will speak in Union's Memorial Chapel. His lecture, sponsored by the history department with the support of Fred Miller, is the fifth in an annual series designed to commemorate the memory of Anwar Sadat: This Anwar Sadat Peace lecture series is the only series specifically designed to com- memorate Sadat's memory. Professor Steven Berk of the history department further delineated the need for such a series. As Berk stated, \The history department together with Fred Miller believe that we are. through the lecture series making a small contribution in the direction of establishing peace in the Middle East.\ According to Professor Berk, Professor Lew~s is probably one of the world's leading three specialists on Islam and the contemporary Arab world. One of the other three specialists, Professor T.J. Vatikiotis has already spoken at Union as the first speaker in the series. Lewis has published numerous works on these subjects, including The Jews of Islam, The World of Islam, Islam in History, R.ace and Color in Islam, The Middle East and the West, and The Arabs in History. In addition, he has worked with other Middle East scholars to produce such works as The Cambridge History of Islam and his current project, The Encyclopedia of Islam. Professor Berk noted that \anybody who has done work in Middle Eastern History knows of the great stature of Professor Bernard Lewis.\ Much of Lewis' stature comes from the over twenty books he ha has published on the Middle East and his notoriety as a scholar. Born in London; he received diplomas from the University of London and University of Paris. He earned his doctorate from the University of London. During the past thirty years, he has held visiting professorships at eight different universities and has been bestowed with numerous awards and honorary degrees from all over the world. Professor Berk says that Union is very privileged to have the leading scholar on the Middle East speak on this campus. As he stated, \Given the impact that the Islamic world has on contemporary events, as witnessed by the latest hijacking episode, Professor Lewis' talk should be of great interest to Union College students and to the public at large.\ This lecture by Professor Bernard Lewis is free and open to the public. According to Wade-Lupe Construction, the damage is estimated to be $7,000. The foreman on the construction site, Richard Hebert, said that he has reason to suspect that the vandalism was done by Union students. Careful not to accuse the students directly, he stated that \before the college year started, there were no such occurrences. With the return of the students to the campus, there have been two incidents of vandalism to the construction area.\ The other case occurred earlier in September when a door was broken to pieces. According to the Wade-Lupe spokesman, the primary reason why the construction site is so susceptible to vandalism and break-ins is because the door connecting the kitchen (under construction) and the Hale House dining room is required to be W1locked during dining hours for reasons of student safety. In the event of a fire in the dining area, the door must be unlocked so students may use it as an exit from the building. Hence, this safety measure would allow for easier entrance to the machine room. Even in the rain, Union students take advantC!ge of the warm weather to socialize i.n front of Library Plaza. When Pierce Fitzgerald, Director of Security, was asked why there is no security designated to the construction Of the opening of the Hale House kitchen, Mr. Hebert, the Wade-Lupe foreman, said that there would \most likely\ be a small delay in its opening. He couldn't say how long the delay Women's Soccer Victorious -p. 20- Supertramp Reviewed -p. 13-

Page2 CONCORDIENS!S, October 17, 1985 Buddhist Faith Described ; ~ '':2• ~} Of t-1.s eminence, Jamgon Kongtrul Rinpoche, spoke at Union this last r ;esday. By JON COHN Contributor On Tuesday October 8, his eminence the venerable Jamgon Kongtrul Rinpoche, dweller of the Rumtek monastary, captivated the overflow crowd in Union college's Social Science building. Speaking through a translator, the recognized Emanation of the nineteenth century teacher, Jamgon Kongtrul \The Great\ briefly presented twelve hundred years of Buddhism. Addressing the various beliefs of the world, Rinpoche sought to unify spiritual traditions in the sense that they are geared towards uplifting. human qualities. In this way, ... .-~·>+ ... .....,+++ .......... -+...- .......................................... _...._........,.....,_.~~....---++--...,.._.,.....~HHHH..._.~ t • t (> {> Spring Term Abroad in Vienna : The application deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Vienna this coming • spring is nearing. There are still some places available, and students are invited to : enroll in the program. You have to be at least sophomores and satisfy the minimum : <)rerequisite for acceptance which is completion of German 11. • · The Austro-American Institute in Vienna is organizing several levels of instruction : in German which will suit the students' different language abilities and they will ~ provide for housing in private families. The \Arts Architecture and Culture\ ·course, \' taught by Professor Kellenter, faculty member in residence, will draw on all of : ·Tienna's resources and acquaint all students with its rich traditions. • Several weekend trips (included in the .cost of the term l will enrich the program and • p •. ovide interesting contrasts. Among possible other excursions; a weekend in Prague! ~ •)II\ in Budapest, and a boat trip on the beautiful blue Danube to the world famous human potential is lifted to the highest level, which is com- munication between spiritual traditions, and results in better universal understanding. The Rinpoche descr~bed the Buddhist faith as one of 84,000 teachings, all of which are embodied in two inseperable truths, known as relative and absolute. The nature of the two truths, to go beyond the fixation of eternalism and nihlism, is that the phenomenal is fun~ damentally free. That is to say that nothing exists per- manently. If .something existed permanently, things would never change. The analogy presented was that an object is composed of many different things that are fixated, existing permanently and. yet reliably. Further, each and every object exists in- terdependently although_ all things lack true existence because nature is insubstantial. To 'further bring these a-b- stract concepts to the level of the heterogeneous audience, the Rinpoche presented another analogy\ He spoke in terms of interdependent concepts, long, short, good and bad. If there is not something long there cannot be something short. Short serves the purpose of long, in the same way that bad creates whatever problems, the op- posite; good exists. However, that decision is a relative point of view, ac- cording to the Buddha. In this case the ultimate truth is to examine exactly wh(!t the hand is, fingers, palm, joints, nails, and skin, all separate parts. In essence there is no hand, but merely a variety of things put together labeled as a hand. This is the ultimate truth, while- the relative truth still remains that it is called a hand. The Rinpoche then went on to prove that ultimate truth and relative truth are not in con- tradiction in Buddhism. \Something such cannot be something ~lse,\ spoke · the Rinpoche ·of this situatioh, Through the \telescope of the eye of the Buddha,\ the Rin\ poche described existence as dependence, or an element of timE;. The past is gone, the present moving aw:ay, and the . future corning.- Thus nothing exists permanently, and all things depend on each other. To relate this ·to our lives, his eminence described the world as based on our own values, each interdependent. In the , case of the four noble truths, suffering and pain being a part, the Buddha described suffering and pain as relative. ~ ln\Hiastery Melk are planned. • \ ienna, a magnificent city- with its famous Gothic St. Stephen's Cathedral, its : H.·naissance and Baroque palaces and monumental buildings, occupies a leading ~ pusition among the world's centers of artistic and intellectual life. It has produced ¢ masters oif literature and science, its art collections are renowned the whole world .. t What exists, the Rinpoche + said, does not exist fun- ~ damentally, but, instead, as a Source& of pain have their origins in neurosis and ignorance. One could become liberated by the cause of pain, and become free of suffering. Nothing is predictable. Chaos emerges when we rely on something predictable, which, when unpredictabie, backfires. \It would be helpful\ he said, \if we make things un- predictable.\ • over, and as a musical center it probably has no equal. : The cost of the program approximates the cost of a term spent on Union campus. All ~ scholarships currently received will apply. The only additional expense is the round : trip air fare to Vi~nna and back. An added attracttion is that students participating in ! the spring term can choose to spend some extra time in Europe duz:ing the summer ! without spending additional air fare. + All interested students should contact the Terms Abroad Office, Hu 211, for ap- t plications and more information. \ ••••••••• 0 .................................................................................. ~~~~ Two New College Committees Formed Two new committees comprised of students, faculty, and members of the administration will be convened shortly to examine a number of student life issues at Union. The first committee will review all aspects of residential living at Union and will examine current policies, identify priorities, and review future residence life planning. The second com- mittee will review the legal implications for the College of the new 21 year old alcohol purchase age and examine all aspects of extracurricular activities and resources on the campus for students. The committee will focus especially on campus student life in light of the impending alcohol purchase age change and make appropriate recommendations. The reports and recom- mendations of the committees wi II be presented to the Student Affairs Councidl for further review within the governance system of the College. Residence Life Committee Alochol Use/Student Life Committee Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students Robert Massa, Assistant Dean of Students David Wood, Director of Residence Life Prof. Barb~ra Markiewicz David Wood, Director of Residence Life Robert Massa, Assistant Dean of Students Kenneth Nourse, Dean of Admissions Prof. Kimmo Rosenthal Joanne Tobiessen, Assistant Dean of Students Prof. Faye Dudden Craig Blum Prof. William Thomas Dawn Chupay Jim Brawley Scott Danziger Joanne McAndrews Pierce Fitzgerald Sheryl Nowitz Robin Gross Pat Virnich Steve Rothschild Maureer) Thompson SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382~7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIALS with Teresa, Marcie and Gari onlv! !.%'\' ,.~·; -{,'Jf#{/'. ~ * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off retail with student 10. I combination of many things, identified as one. Something does not exist permanently, for if it did it would be permanently inactive. Activity is an ex- pression of impermanence, proven by an impermanent glass, which, upon breaking, ceases to exist as a glass. Another example of a view of relative and absolute truth was given, as a universally accepted object such as a hand. Those who deny the unanimous decision that a hand is- a hand are said to be out of mind. f Varidalism • Continued from page 1 transport food to the second floor of the Old Chapel would not be in working order for \another six weeks.\ Jan Gray, Director of Food Services, commented on the entire incident by saying that, \we have been trucking food from West kitchen to Hale House for a month now, so the opening of the Hale House Buddhism attracts many westerners because of its serene nature and abstractions that replace materialism. The philosophies of Buddhism ex- tend ones field of vision to . above, while at the same time look down on what has been created. • • :Jtltchen even without the use of the elevator isn't really a set- back.\ Wade-Lupe Constuctors, a Schenectady-based firm, is one of three construction companies on campus. The other two are Bunko££ Construction Co. Inc. (Carnegie Hall) and Sweet Associates, Inc. (the Union College Alumni Gymnasium renovation). Any students interested in working on Union Lampoone contact The Editors-in-Chief Sean Griffin (346-4190) or Mark Cioni (390-6664) \Fresh\ girls at West I \ - ( B 0 Sub spo1 gro sub Unl Pr(J ( Cl. Tob Bot Bee: ma (en Pr<J Eh! E a whi ext, of COJ stal cou to · the F in it sal stu tha poi \w the ev1 I foll na stu pr< de: as bel pr~ ' m~ pa ca: st1 wt m' ge stl pr WI pa is pr ro th an st1 si1 dE CG pl

\ CONCORDIENSIS, October 17, 1985 Page} Curriculum Re-evaluated By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor On Wednesday, October 9, the Subcouncil on the Curriculum sponsored a panel discussion group which addressed the subject of preprofessionalism at Union. Panelists included Professor Mark Toher (Classics}; Professor Peter Tobiessen (Biology)~ Professor Bob Baker {philosophy); David Beal '86 (pre-law and classics major); Andrew George, '86 (engineering major) and Professor Ed Craig (Dean of Engineering). . Each panelist first presented a four-minute introduction whi$ was followed by more extensive comments. Members of· the audience were given copies of each panelist's statement so that the panelists could address their comments to the arguments put forth in their position papers. Professor Mark Toher initiated the introductions by saying that he considered students today less idealistic than in past generations. He pointed out that he did not \want to moralize\ but hoped the panel could be used to everyone's advantage. Professor Peter Tobiessen followed by asserting that it is naive to think that most stuqents will not go into varjous professional careers. Tobiessen described the issue in question as \how to educate\ and said he believed that students should be preprofessionals. \This generation may not make it as well as their parents,\ Tobiessen stated. He called the current generation of students less idealistic and without the same social com- mitment as previous generations and explained that students now face differrat problems if they hope to live as well or better than their parents. Tobiessen noted that it is more than pre- professionalism that nar- rows one's options, and that the main question-whose answer ultimately lies with the student-is how to improve the situation. Professor Bruce Reynolds described as an \inavoidable conflict between private and public interests'' because students come to Union out of ''private interests\ (jobs) while Union maintains a \social purpose'' (education). Reynolds added that while these two interests may differ, \we would :like to propound them\ to ensure that Union educates as well as trains students. Defining two main problems for Union, Reynolds noted an over enrollment in cert(lin majors and over enrollment in what he said some might consider the \wrong sorts\ of majors, namely privately productive courses. He ex- plained that pressure to service \a .flood of students\ excludes broader courses in that major. Reynolds further noted that the College must help the depart- ments, \otherwise you'll have continued erosion within our departments.\ The Preprofessionalism issue \has compelled faculty to consider what goals the college has or should have . . . Students should want faculty to do that ... It's important to re-evaluate.\ -Professor Christine Sorum Basing his comments on his statement's quQte of John Stuart Mill, Professor Bob Baker discussed how education should \make a man a more intelligent shoemaker\ and encourage \a mode of thought, habit of thinking.\ Due to lack of data to show \whether we've failed or succeeded,\ Baker suggested a review of the transcripts of Union's graduates. As a pre-law-classics major, David Beal, '86, expressed a belief that ''preprofessionalism is here to , stay'' but \preprofessionalism and liberal education can co-exist.'' Asserting that the skills learned in a course-not its title-should be important. Beal described the humanities · as \equally preprofessional\ and not \polar opposites\ to courses termed preprofessional. Because courses in the humanities teach organizational and analytical methods, Beal said, students should choose courses which ATTENTION ALL UNION COLLEGE STAFF MEMBERS, FACULTY AND ADMINISTRATORS!! Tired after a hard day here in Nott Land? Feeling constricted by construction? If you would rather not cook; wait for someone else to cook; or are just plain bored with eating out, why not ·BRING HOME A PI PING HOT PIZZA? Call us at 6060 and we will arrange to have your pizza or subs and beverages ready for you at the end of your long hard day. P.S. If you prefer your pizza blazing hot, instead of just piping hot, stop by with your pizza pan, we will set the crust and you can finish cooking it at home! Try us, you will be wild about your pizza. P.S.S. We can deliver to your office from 1:30 p.m. until 12:00 a.m. -·--- teach required skills for a career not those which are popularly considered preprofessional. A~dy . George '86, an engmeenng major, asked whether preprofessionalism has <:louded the College's view of hberal education or whether our present .system has outlived i~s use~ulness. Noting that our brnes mfluence our education, George asserted that liberal arts studies, which provide transferable skills, are essential at a time when professionals often change their careers. George added that he believed that many people in his major develop \a sincere ap- preciation for courses outside the major.\ Finally, Professor Ed Craig expressed a desire to design a system \to teach people who don't understand what education is\ and to provide students with a way to learn, or, \to teach them how to learn.\ After Craig's introduction, discussion was opened among the panel members. Reynolds and Toher seemed to agree that memorizatior. is part of learning; students must know what Reynolds termed \the language of discourse\ to gain what Toher called \a framework of understanding.\ Tobiessen added, \Students don't seem to know which is which now ... Courses may be relevant even if they don't seem it.\ Baker commented that it is often in a stud~nt's long-term interest to take courses of general interest \whether students realize it or not,\ because students \will have a life other than a career.\ Beal agreed, stating, \The preprofessional wants skills that will translate into dollars\ but liberal learning courses- philosophy for example-will do this. While Reynolds questioned the \difficulty of credibility with employers\ with courses that are not obviously preprofessional, Beal argued that if getting hired is a problem, the skills learned from liberal learning courses help in attaining promotions later. Baker stated that he objected to students' narrow focus on the first year after college; education should continue beyond the years spent in college. George followed, saying that learning must continue outside of the classroom, and \must be initia~ed by students\ although the faculty must catalize students by announcing outside activities to students in their classes. Further, he added that professional societies on Continued on page 4 t: u 0 ::.! :2 .... Cl c: > .0 0 .... 0 J:: c. Emotion Studied By BETH LEVINE Staff Dr. Amy Halperstadt, the second speaker in a series of lectures sponsored by the Psychology Department, spoke on Thursday, October 10, 1985. She traveled from Vassar where she is an assistant professor to talk on \Styles of Emotional Expression: The Effect of Family Socialization on Adult Commtmication Skills and Relationships.\ Dr. Halberstadt believes that emotional expressivity plays an important role in social situations. The variation in degrees of expressivity may affect communication skills and interpersonal relationships. Learning more about emotional expression, its socialization, and its consequences will lead to a better understanding of emotions. The primary factors in- fluencing emotional ex- pressivity are cultural values. For example, in Southwest Kenya, a tribe called Gusii considers emotions dangerous and discourages any display of feelings. Within the mother- child relationship, comfort is provided without eye contact, employing effective restraint. A popular stereotype is the cold, proper English per- sonality as opposed to the more vivacious Italian and French personalities. In. American culture, blacks. value greater expressiveness than do whites and there is evidence that cites that females are more demonstrative than males but not necessarily more emotional. The universality of reports regarding the socialization of emotional expressivity states that parents succeed in inhibiting the display of emotions in their family. Dr. Halberstadt decided to ap- proach the problem differently by focusing on three basic questions: 1) Is family socialization only inhibitory? 2) What are the effects on in- terpersonal skills? and 3) What are the effects on outside in- teraction? Through a questionnaire filled out by college sophomores and their mothers-provided that there was agreement between the two-the data was used to develop a curve. The scale started at positive dominant, the next category being positive non-dominant, but called positive submissive to avoid confusion. The respective counterparts are negative dominant and negative submissive. An example of positive submissive behavior is seeking approval, while showing contempt for other's behavior is negative dominant. When brought up in a family low in emotional expressivity, Dr. Halberstadt hypothesized that individuals bave to become more sensitive to subtle clues. Therefore, these people will be more skilled in perceiving, but less skilled in expressing emotions. In families where there are frequent displays of feelings, individuals will ex- press themselves more easily but will not be so sensitive to other people's feelings. Sixteen males and sixteen females from either end of the curve were chosen as subjects for the expreiments. The first of the three-part experiment required a subject and a \blind\ confederate each telling a happy-positive and sad-negative story while still feeling· comfortable speaking with a person they did not know. The confederate was different for each subject. This was videotaped, judged blindly and then used to measure spon- taneous expression. Expressing oneself in an artificial setting was also measured. It was found that people from less expressive backgrounds were better at expressing themselves con- sciously. These individuals, Dr. Halberstadt suspects became subtle in displaying their feelings in order to avoid any punishment. The third part of the ex- periment examined the success of a relationship between Continued on page 17 LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you eniOY helping in- dividuals and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yourse-lf a legitimate and con- scionable fee for your service in ioining borrower and lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending (after we- have taught . you our system), without disturbing what you are doing now for a living, then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (P-lease do not apply if you have any objections to becoming a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable from first completed loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 million, thereafter5%, $1 billion and over add 21/2%). Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry, call 1-203· 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -Our 50th Anniversary 1935-1985-

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, Octo/Jet 17, 1985 Hold the date: October 24, 1985. A representative from the Sea Education Association is coming to Union to talk about their undergraduate semester program in marine education. Mr. James F. Millinger, Ph.D., Dean of S.E.A., will beon.campusat 12:30 p.m. on 10/24 and will show a videotape and answer questions about SEA's program, Sea Semester. (Check with the Assistant Dean's Office for the exact location of Dr. Mil linger's talk.) Sea Semester is an exciting alternative semester. A 17·credit program, it is designed for undergraduates from any major or discipline. The twelve week program include$ academic courses at SEA's headquarters in Woods Hole, MA, covering marine science, maritime affairs and nautical science for the first six weeks. The .next six weeks are spent aboard the 125' schooner, the R/V Westward, sailing almost 2500 nautical miles and ap· plying new skills and completing oceanographic research. Sea Semester is offered six times each year; with each 12-week program designed for 24 undergraduates. The faculty/student ratio is 1 :3 and students come from 130 colleges and universities across the country. Don't miss this chance to attend SEA's presentation and learn more about this exciting alternative in marine education! For more information contact: Sarah Graham Mann, Marketing Director (617) 540-3954) Academics etamined • • •• Preprofessionalism Panel Continued from page 3 campus should address issues of ethics within their fields. When the discussion was opened to include members of the audience, one professor, describing the curriculum as a \barrier\ and tests as \step- ping stones/' stated that· ''it's what's between that co.unts,\ and the faculty should \get the students more immersed in what we have to offer.\ Tober asked how many students in the audience had attended the panel discussion out of personal interest and expressed disappointment that no more than twenty or twenty- five hands were raised. When Professor Markiewicz suggested that professors spend time inciting student interest in academics outside of the classroom, Kathy Keaveney '86 agreed that faculty input would help. Discussion next turned to values, \part of the faculty's role as educators,\ as · one member of the audience termed it, and Baker described value issues as the faculty's \aesthetic and moral respon- sibility.\ Since the panel seemed to agree that students may not recognize what is in their best interests academically, Professor William Zwicker questioned how to encourage students to make better choices. Suggestions from others in- cluded more encouragen1ent from advisors and Career Center advice on what em- ployers want. Professor Adrien Frazier questioned whether employers really do value some of the preprofessional courses students feel cempelled to take. Teher added that it is \our job\ as advisors to know what em- ployers do look for. Mrs. Joanne Tobiessen of the Career Center stated that employers' aims are varied, but st~Jdents must be encouraged to consider this well before their senior yea.r. Professor Byron Nichols noted that \careers aren't ends in themselves\ but should be means of advancing personal goals. A member of the audience summarized the panel discussion saying that concern lies not necessarily with preprofessionalism but with the quality of Union's education. Another commented that the faculty \must set the tone.\ Beal, commenting on the success of the .panel, said he was \not sure of the impact\ but that the discussion was \equally directed at faculty and students.\ He was, however,· disappointed by the percentage of students in attendance, despite the large crowd in SS 016. Professor Sorum also said that the Subcouncil is \very very eager to have thoughtful students participate\ although any changes in the curriculum will not affect current Union students. · Professor Sorum hoped that this would help students objectively evaluate the education they are receiving at Union and consider how the College could be improved. Sorum believes that the preprofessionalism issue has done one important thing: \It has compelled faculty to con- sider what goals the College has or should have . . . .students shOuld want faculty to .do that.\ While she does not think the College should change with eve~y trend, Sorum feels the curriculum ''can get dusty . . . It's important to re-evaluate.\ \The goals of the Curriculum Committee, Sorum notes, ''are to ,discuss with faculty and students problems concerning the curriculum and various solutions to these problems.\ She hopes that the committee can then develop a \coherent proposal.\ Professor Zwicker, Chairman of the Subcouncil, said ''the committee's real interests are to improve the quality of the education.\ Zwicker was disappointed that panel members gave the misleading impression that they agreed in most cases, he believes that disagreement would be more evident \if the panel had tackled more specific questions.\ Zwicker feels that the Sub- council's job is to be \sym- pathetic to a non-perfect solution\ of the issue. Noting the difference between goals and requirements-or minim~l standards-he questioned, \How can you announce goals and get people to strive for them?\ Because faculty want to know the reasons behind students' views, Zwicker stressed that ''students can offer arguments that professors can't see.\ Zwicker believes that the best way that stu(lents can influence the curriculum is by submitting coherent arguments. What's Up Around Campus Student Forum Minutes Meeting: No.3, October 7, 1985 Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bernell, S. Moss, K. Keaveney, A. George, R. Gross, M. Coleman, S. Ference, S. Lipsky, M. Bradley, R. Allen, A. Amish Bus Tour Offered The public is invited to join a guided bus tour of the Amish country of Pennsylvania the weekend of October 25. Spon- sored by Union College, the tour will include an authentic Amish homestead, a visit to the Get- . tysburg battlefield, all meals and hotels, and a visit to Her- shey's Chocolate World. The Amish countryside has remained picturesque and quaint, an . island of beauty and calm in the twentieth century. See it in its fall colors. For in- formation, call370-6288 and ask for Nancy Mancini. U.N.. Delegate Cowan to Lecture Ruth Cowan, Dean of lifelong learning at Marymount Manhattan College in New York, will give a free lecture at Union on her experiences as a delegate to the United Nations' Decade for Women Conference and Forum 85 held last summer in Nairobi, Kenya. The talk will be held Tuesday, October 22 at 12:30 p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge on the Union College campus in Schenectady. The public is invited to attend. The Forum was a U.N.- sponsored program open to individuals and representatives of non-governmental organizations involved with women's status issues. Cowan was particularly interested in \The Third World Forum 0)1 Women, Law and DevefOp· ment,\ organized by the- OV.ers-=:as Education Fund. • .. ~.. .. ..... • . ~ • I. .: ,J ;, With a doctorate in Political Science from New York University, she taught in the City University of New York system for over 20 years. She is presently serving on a variety of agencies related to women's concerns: The New York City Commission on the Status of Women; New York State I)epartment of Labor Task Force on Displaced Homemakers; and Women's Forum Board of directors, among others. Cowan's ap- pearance is sponsored by the President's Commission on the Status of Women at Union. Sigma Xi Seminar on Birds Sigma Xi's Fall Seminar will be Tuesday, October 22, at 4:30 in Social Sciences 016. The speaker will be John Ostrom, professor and curator at Yale University and the Peabody Museum. His topic will be \The Origin of Birds: Evidence from the Fossil Record.\ Dr. Ostrom is an internationally known researcher in vertebrate paleontology, and his topic will appeal to anyone who has ever been fascinated by dinosaurs and the history of life over geologic time. Dr. Ostrom is also a graduate of Union College, and with the \resurrection\ of our own Geology Department, his talk is especially timely. Please put this on your calendar-and plan to come early (4:00 on) for wine, cheese, and other refresh- ments. News Writers Needed Call x6155 Loan Defaults Forfeit Tax Returns The New York State Higher Education Services Corporation (HESC) has identified and reported to the U.S~ Depart- ment of Education the names of 55,000 borrowers who are · currently in default on their student loans. These defaulters vvill have their 1985 income tax refunds withheld to offset what they owe. Approximately $120 milUon is owed by these borrowers. Dr. Dolores Cross, President of HESC, signed an agreement with the U.S. Department of Education on October 4, to forward to the Education Department the names of borrowers who are in default on loans guaranteed by HESC. The Education Department can then submit these names to the Internal Revenue Service for the tax offset. This new collection tool was made possible by the federal Deficit Reduction Act of 1984. The Higqer Education Services Corporation will send notices to all borrowers who face the income tax refund offsets, in- forming them that their names have been reported to the Education Department. If they do not contact the Services Corporation and begin as soon as possible, the Education Department will forw,ard their names to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and if they have refunds coming, they will be applied to their student loans. ''In notifying the borrowers,\ says Dr. Cross, \we are doing everything we' can to make t~king their refunds un- Carrel, G.Bolster,D. Cohen ' Members Abs.ent: J. Mountain, P. Virnich, T. Dimmick, K. Siegel 1. The meeting was called to order at 7:35p.m. 2. Th~, minute~ of the previous meeting were read, corrected and ap- proved m a unarumous vo1ce vote. Committee Reports: 3. Beth Bernell gave her report on the Finance Committee. A) The Union College Travel Club has asked for funds to see the Broad\!ay show Cats.The Finance Committee approved the following resolut10n: \Contingent on approval of the Student Forum, Stan motioned that the Financed Committee allocate a sum not to exceed $2160.00 from the contin_gency f~d fo~ the J?W'(!hase of 48 Tickets to the Broadway show Cats by the Umon Uruverstty Travel Club. Repayment of these funds is to occurno later. than the end of the c~rrent academic year and it is recommended that as many $30.00 tickets as are available be pur- chased.\ . Aftt;r some d~scussion, & motion to approve these funds was passed in a unamnnous vowe vote. · · , B) The cheerleaders have requested money to cover some of their unexpe~ted expenses. The Finance Committee approved the following resolution: ''-Contingent on Student.Fortun approval, Steve motioned to allocate to the Cheerleaders from the contingency fund $300.00 to line item 8499 (e~pendable supplies). to purchase 500 buttons f~r sale as part of a fund rmser and $300.00 to line 1tem 8550(travel, meetmgs, and seminars) for travel to Hobart, Middlebury, and Coast Guard games, for a total allocation from the contingency fund of $600.00.\ Mter some discussion, a motion to approve these funds was passed in a unanimous voice vote. C) T~e fee, was paid for the coaching college that Crew Club President John C10vacco attended this past sUmmer. D) The Crew Club budget was frozen. 4. Steve Moss announced that many club constitutions were missing. Also that the Subcouncil on Curriculum Review has had its most recent panel discussion published. Old Business: 5. The Mexican relief fund was successful. 6. The Pep Rally will be held on the west side of the Nott. Suggestions about ways to light the Nott were taken. New Business: 7. Kathy (reporting on the AAC) asked for students to submit topics for future panel discussions. On 10/16/85 from 3:.30-5:00 p.m. and on 10/18/85 from 1: 30-3:00 p.m., students will be able to meet with members of the Sub council on Curriculum Review. 8. The following issues were discussed: A) A new representative is needed for the Independent Student Coalition. · B) A seminar concerning South Mrican Apartheid will be held at Syracuse U. this weekend. A rep. from Union should be sent. C) A Forum sponsored party will be held' Saturday evening in Old Chapel. . · P) The possib~lity Of !laving Cabaret~n fr~ternity houses. E) The ex:tentlon of library hours durmg fmals week. F) Class officers have money available to plan a class activity. G) The possibility of Phi Beta Kappa ho&ting informal talks between professors and students in the dorms. H) Improved security for the dormitories. 9. Motion to adjourn was unanimously passed at 8:20p.m. Respectfully submitted, David Cohen necessary.\ . ~· ... \'. ..... { N. '· 0:0 ' ~ .• \'!' _.,.. • .i \\ 1 ·'... \ • .; • ...,.......,.. ____ ..,... ____ .............. _ ..................... ......., ............... _........_ ............. ~·

CONCORDIENSIS, October 17, 1985 Page 5 OMIC RELIEF FROM THE JOB HUNTING HASSLE. At Cumberland Farms, we realize that looking for a job is no laughing matter. So, we've decided to put a little fun in it for you. As the largest privatejy owned convenience store chain in the country, we sell the freshest · products from Maine'lo Florida. And right now we have some fresh career opportunities available for you. \ . ' If you want to join a company that c~n offer stability, respom;;jbility, flexibility and has a good sense of humor ... ••• Our College Recruiter will be on campus on October 22 ::: • ~ Visit your College Placemint Office to. set up · • • • • an appointment. comiJePiiintl IIJP•I Equal Opportunity Employer MIF/HN •••••••••••••••••••• : UNION : !BEVERAGE CORP.: 8 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McDonalds) • : HOURS: MON. thru. SAT. 9 to 9, : • SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. • • We ,.....,. tho right to limit quantltlM. • • Not re•fMOneible few ~phkal enon. 8 : OPEN : : FOR BUSINESS : : 382-5958 : • Watch For Our Grand Opening e 8 · Coming Soon/ 8 • • • ................................................... . : . HEINEKEII . : • LIGHT OR DARK • • • : 13.99a- : • •••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e••••• • : V2 KEG BUSCH : • • : $27.50 : .................................................... : Y2 KEG BUD : : $33.00 : . ·····························~··················· . e DRAFT BEER e e Halves & Quarters Available. • e Also lcel • e Plenty of Free Parking e ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• PIELS EXPORT :· • • : 5.39c... : • ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••o••• • ! BUD EXPORTS ! : 1 0.39c... : ..................................................... : MILLER EXPORTS : : 9.99c.,. : •••••••••••••••••••• &Renantoana Hair Designs UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS r--------------------------~ 1 $10 Off Sculptured I . I I Nails l 1 Reg. $35.00 NOW $25.00 I -~-------~--------------~--J WITH THIS COUPON VALIDTHROUGH NOV.15 MON.-FRI. 9-9 , • , ·~4T. ~-6 . 372-0007 519 UNION ST. SCH'DY . - . ; -~ . ' . . .. . . \ - '

Page6 CONCORDIENSJS, October 17, 1985 FEATURES Root for Rudy Nydegger! By CATHY MARKES Staff What's this-a professor from Union College is running for public office? Yes, the rumor is actually an established fact. Associate Professor of Psychology Rudy Nydegger is an endorsed Democratic candidate for Schnectady City Council. While some of us may not recognize that name (note: Prof. Nydegger has been on a yearlong sabbatical since Winter '85), most others are familiar with his active in- volvement on the Union cam- pus. Prof. Nydegger runs for City Council Nydegger certainly has aU the qualifications to be an ef- fective leader-a solid education sprinkled with honors, mem- bership in strong professional societies and various psychologist positions at health- Security Services By KA VEH SHEIBANI Contributor Union College's Security department is best known for its parking tickets and fire drills, yet it offers many services that need to be brought to light. Security covers two areas: safety, which involves fire drills, inspections and other city and state regulations: and security, which is run on a more personal basis. The latter offers many services that students are generally not aware of. Mr. Clifford Wood, director of Security, says that this department can be used as an \educational program for security and safety.\ He cited as an example, Delta Gamma which was experiencing some problems involving security. They talk!ld to Mr. Wood, who arranged a meeting with them in which he explained safety regulations, and ways to decrease chances of injury. Security also improved the safety conditions of the house. Resident advisors can arrange similar meetings with Security so that students can learn more in regards to their safety. Security has many pamphlets that offer information on rape, mugging, self-protection . . . Any student can ask for these pamphlets which include many drawings of possible incidents, and directions on how to avoid · those situations, or how to best respond to them. Also coun- seling involving security and safety can be provided. Students can get rides from Se- curity if they meet the criteria for this service. For example, Security will not give a ride to a student who wants to go to a party. But if a student feels uncomfortable at a party and would like to go to their room, they can get a ride. Security takes students to and from Ellis Hospital. Mr. Wood emphasized the fact that there are only two cars. If one of the cars is oc- cupied, Security cannot allow the other one to provide these non-emergency services. They must be alert for incidents that might suddenly occur. If a student needs a ride, but there are no available cars, student patrol officers will escort them. Students who need to enter locked buildings, can do so by calling Security. A precondition for such a demand though is that the student be on an access list for that particular building which he is trying to enter. Access lists are generally provided by faculty members for academic buildings, and they. can be updated. It is the responsibility of the student. to make sure that he is. on that list. If a student leaves his books in a locked building, and only needs to enter the building for a short time, Security will open the building for him and escort the student. Security also has a lost and found office which is open from 8:00a.m. to 5:00p.m. Mr. Wood said that every year there are hundreds of sunglasses and keys, for example, that _ are never claimed. Usually, most items are kept for at least a term, before they are given away. Students can report problems such as loud music, or suspicious people to Security. Many students think that they must provide Security with their identity. Even though Security Will asK tor such m- formation, the student has an option of not revealing. his identity. Security involves many regulations, orders, and ser- vices. The above information is concentrated on different kinds of services that Security provides. Most questions in- volving Security can be an- swered by referring to the Union College Student Hand- book. Big Brothers - Big Sisters of ·Schenectady County Things to Do with Your Little Brother/Little Sister HAYRIDE All Big Brothers/Big Sisters and their Littles are invited to our Annual Hayride on: Friday, October 25-6:00 p.m. meet at BB/BS Agency Hayride at George Van Etten's Christmas Tree Farm Admission $1 ·Bring Cider or Hot Chocolate Hot Dogs provided Please call our office by October 21 if you plan to attend. BIG/LITTLE SISTER SCOUTS Big Sisters are invited to participate with their Little Sisters in a Scouting Troop. The Troop looks forward to sharing a variety of activities on a mor.thly basis. Thier next meeting will be Tuesday, October 22 from 6·8 pm at the Agency office. RECRUITMENT If you know of any studentswho may be interested in finding out more about our Big B·rother/Big Sister program, please inform them that there is an Orientation every Monday night at 5:30pm at our office, 924 Albany Street. If this is not a convenient time, we can set up an Orientation on campus. We have lots of youngsters Waiting for a Big Brother/Big Sister and we need your assistance in recruiting new volunteers. ' care facUities. Here. at Union, Nydegger has served terms as Dean of Students and also as Chairman of the Psychology Department. He is a current member of the ·staff at Ellis and · St. Clare's Hospitals, and still remains closely associated with the Hospice of Schenectady, a facility of which he was a founder. Dr. Nydegger first considered rwming for City Council last spring when the District Attorney suggested the idea to him. The timing seemed favorable, since Nydegger had begun his sabbatical from Union and had also just stepped down from his office as president of the Hospice. Nydegger stresses that it was his dedication to community service which finally prompted him to run. 'He approaches this campaign · with a broadened sense of commitment to others rather than with only political goals in mind. As a city council member, Nydegger would mange the city budget. Several aspects of his campaign focus on how to do this effectively. For example, Nydegger believes that the introduction of more small businesses into the area would diversify the tax base, lifting the burden of increased taxation off the community at large. He is convinced that the recent improvements in downtown Schenectady must continue. More specifically, Nydegger· recognizes the need to update and preserve the city's records through the use of an· information system. The computerization of City Hall's records would greatly improve both the efficiency and ac- curacy of what is now tedious paperwork. Dr. Nydegger also brought up the interesting point that the interaction between the city and college could be improved. Events on campus-speakers, theatre and musical presen- tations-may go unnoticed by the city, yet on another note, many students have never walked through the shops downtown. Nydegger believes · the city has more to offer this college (and vice versa) and intends to try to strengthen this relationship. , As Election day draws near, Professor Nydegger is finding the work increasingly time- consuming. He would greatly appreciate anyone willing to help with his campaign, since there are many pamphlets still to be distributed, phone calls to be made, etc. Nydegger hopes to reach a high percentage of the voting public and has even arranged a transportation system for the elderly and handicapped to get to the polls on Election Day. Any student interested .in participating in Profssor Nydegger's campaign may contact Deirdre at x6701 or the Union College Young Democrats. Rush • • • By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Associate Features Editor \Are you going through rush?\ This must be the question ofthe week: I can't tell you how many times I've heard it. It's obvious that sorority rush season is upon us once again. What an experience rush was last year! Although I didn't end up joining a house, I had a great time and met a lot of wonderful people. On the. first night we walked from house to house on an in- troductory tour. · Beforehand, we spent hours deciding what to wear, clothes were flying in every direction. If I remember correctly, I ended up throwing on an odd combination of all my friends' clothes five minutes before I had to leave. I don't want to talk about the time I wasted with makeup and curlers. I was running around in circles, but so was everyone else, and thatmade it fun.Then we were off! Out into the freezing rain we went. It pelted down upon us destroying hours of \dressing up,\ and of course no one wanted to carry umbrellas. So we all looked like drowned rats. We were divided into different groups and began the 45-minute grand tour of Union's three sororities. Each had a different theme to their parties. At our first stop, Tri Delta, we were greetea by characters from \Disney Land.\ Then at DG we . were given a tour of their \cruise ship\ and SDT delighted us with their ''Winter Wonderland.\ Somehow all of the sororities managed to tell us all about their house, entertain, us, introduce themselves to us, and even feed us. By the time we reached home, I was cold and tired. :Before I collapsed on my bed I sat up for awhile and thought over the pros and cons of joining a sorority, and tried to decide if any of them were right for me. I didn't feel comfortable with making a lifelong commitment to a sorority after only having a week of formal rush to decide if that was what I wanted. So, I decided to drop out before the second night of parties. Anyway. I wouldn't have missed that first night of fun for the world, it was quite a show. After having sworn they wouldn't join a sorority both my suitemates joined a house, and to the best of my knowledge, they are more than happy there. I guess everyone has to make their own decisions, but I definitely believe that you can't lose anything by going through rush, and everyone should at least give it a try. 41 Days Until Winter Break B: It I tun at wond~ mer's in the abroa when rna,\ viewi flicks Thl parti1 con vi told, abou then see I your criti reviE to sl skep I, l rom: to li -diffi frie resp life· quit La rna! sligl the Bre my me1 wa1 tha1 B Je E Iri po C< re t\'1 E: el le st \.l Sl b t< fl ti b tl fl ] t ( l r

• • CONCORDIENSJS, October 17, 1985 Page7 FEATURES Future & Friends By HOWlE PODOLSKY Contributor It might have been a for- tunate thin&-> missing the wonderful array of this sum- mer's movies, as I participated in the Socialized Medicine term abroad this past summer. But when I returned to \terra fir- ma,\ I eagerly anticipated the viewing of all the great summer flicks. There was one movie in particular that a dear friend convinced me ta see. One, I was told, that was about \life\; about our ''future.\ So, bein,:~; the m.ovie' going type, I went to see St. Elmo's Fire. To allay your fears, I'm not going to critique this already over- reviewedpiece. Rather, I'd like to share some thoughts on this skeptically sad story. I, too, was caught up with the romantic futility of struggling to live after graduation. The -difficulty in maintaining friendships, procuring responsibility, and just making life meaningful are all real and quite tangible. Contrary to Lawrence Kasdan's magnificant Big Chill, a movie slightly out of my realm, and the younger reality· of The Breakfast Club, not to belittle my dear, post-high school fresh- men friends, St. Elmo's Fire was striving towards a reality that is in our reach. But what is that reality? To graduate from Union with a close group of dear and loved friends whom I'll only alienate and inevitably hurt? I dare think not. Yet, with a touch of false security, I, as all of you, attend Union's sheltered microcosm, not naving to worry about the real world that lies ahead of us .. We don't know what it's like to wor~ for our friendships, that we ·so dearly cherish. And it is these very friendships that we hope to keep for the rest of our lives. Ah, but you say with a touch of cynicism, there's another pipe dream, only to go up in smoke, as we begin our post- graduate lives. So, with this \Big Chillish\ phenomenon and \St. Elmo's\ fear, are we to run out and make as many friends as possible, only hoping to retain a few, after we leave these sacred halls? No! Con- trary, to St. Elmo's poor script, choppy editing, and overlooking one of the finest assemblages of today's young actors and ac- tresses, why don't we just concentrate on improving those friendships that we have already? Whether it be a high school friend that you haven't seen in mcmths or a campus friend who has moved just a bit too far out of your walking range, make the effort to cement what you have today. For I do not wish to view yet another romantically fatalistic film about our \future.\ if .. l \ ' ~ . The Union College Gaming Association hosted the eleventh annual Council of the Five Nations last weekend on campus. ' U.C.G.A. hosts gaming conference ... Convention A Succe.ss By PETE GRANGER Contributor This past weekend marked a major milestone in the history of the Union College Gaming Association, as the eleventh annual Council of the Five Nations was held here for the pleasure of all garners. As regular Concordiensis readers know from the article appearing several weeks ago, the U.C.G.A., with the assistance of members of the Schenectady Wargamers' Association, had put much time and effort, since last spring, into the planning of this event. As vice president of the U.C.G.A., I am proud to say that the results of our labors ex- ceeded our hopes on almost all counts. The turnout exceeded two hundred, with dedicated garners from as far away as New Orleans, Milwaukee, and '- I]) .c ::l '- (.!) \0 > Ill 0 >- .c 0 - 0 .c. a. Jean Montague on campus . .. even parts of Canada flocking to play their favorite games. There were very few dif- ficulties, since everything had been carefully planned and rehearsed for months beforehand, and all participants games. The \official\ U.C.G.A. tournament, a Dungeons & Dragons adventure entitled \Mists of Dread,\ was run by ~lumni members Howard Ratner and John Urbano, was one of the most talked about events of the weekend. Also popular was a truly unique adventure by John Stewart and Larry Wilder, known as \Double Trouble.\ Several members also won awards in the games in which they played, and Steve Flitman finally un- veiled his original game system, OMNIVERSE, causing some excitement of his own. Poet 'Misreads' Works were very cooperative. By SERGIO RAMPEZZOTTI and KELLY MCNEIL Contributors Jean Montague, a renowned Irish poet, recently read his poetry to an audience at Union College. Montague, having recently undergone ten to twenty readings throughout the Eastern United States, was extremely tired during the lecture and this was demon- strated by what he termed \misreadings\ of his poems. Although often times seemingly apologetic, Mon- tague felt by no means the need to apologize for his lack of fluency. He explicitly men- tioned this fact based upon his belief that he is who he is and that one should not be criticized for being himself. he would have liked. The reasoning behind the audience's failure to relate (in emotionalterms) to Montague's problems lay in the fact that the majority of the audience did not know of his complicated past. At the age of five, Montague was severely reprimanded by teachers and schoobnates for not having the proper Irish accent. This experience led to his extreme fear of speaking in public-a fear he could not overcome· until twenty years afterwards. Unfortunately, in rare instances, this speech · impediment is revived. His \misreadings\ may well have been the result of some form ot an anxiety attack based upon some recalled memory. or. unfortunate experience. his problem was laudable. This is not to say that Montague made the attempt at everything went off without a reading less emotionally hitch. Days before the con- stimulating poetry which more vention, we learned that often than not helped him read Saturday's GRE testing had with less flaw and more vigor. been scheduled in Bailey Hall, Montague's intellect was which was one of the buildings demonstrated as he spoke. reserved for the convention. Although he was not succinct in Games schedules were re- his poetry, his sense of humor shuffled, and a few ended up in denoted to what extent he has less-than-ideal sites, such as a mastered the English language. stairway landing in the By being unable to read certain Psychology Building. For- poems the audience realized to tunately, everyone took it in what peak his emotions could be good humor. And of course, heightened. In his poetry, people not familiar with the Montague relived a world which campus spent some time get- he could not impart upon others. ting lost, but all eventually wert Nonetheless, he was appealing found again. , and entertaining to the Many Gaming Association audience. Overall, Jean members made it even more Montag~e's reading was a enjoyable by running and-or worthwhile event to attend. participating in individual Psych Dept. Presents •.. U.C.G.A. :President Toby Wilmott summed things up, saying, \It was work. A lot of work. But it was worth it.\ Toby was lucky-most of us weren't that coherent. In order to fulfill our agreement with the ad- ministration and security, several of our members were on duty for the entire convention, including, a nineteen-hour stretch on Saturday. For their devotion and sacrifice, I would like to publicly thank Larry Wilder, John Stewart, Jodi Israel, and all who gave more than their share. \' Also, the members of the U.C.G.A. wish to give special thanks to Union College Security, the Physical Plant staff, Central Scheduling, Mrs. Marra, Deans Massa and Mammola, and all others who helped us to make the Council of the Five Nations XI the great event it was. Of utmost importance . in Montague's appearance was his uncanny ability to win over his audience. Although erratic in his diction (and knowingly so), Montague spoke erroneously in only pis readings, and not in his sp_eech. In ·his ·lecture, Montague's strength of character was ob- vious. Although overtly dissatisfied with the way he read, Montague relentlessly strove to achieve the goal of perfect diction which he seemingly approached by the end of the reading. His desire to entertam the audience despite Annual Lecture Series By displaying his sharp wit as well as appealing to the audience through his hu- moristic interpretation of how they deemed him, Montague demonstrated his intellect. The audience respected Montague's mindplay and knowledge. The lecture ended with resounding applausethroughoutthelecture room. By assessing his past, one can comprehend the ''Severed Tongue\ he refers to in one of his poems. Montague's problem in reading during the lecture was based upon how emotionally distraught the poems of his past made him feel. One can truly ascertain that he was of the belief that he unconsCiously felt that an audience would not understand the significance of what the peoms truly meant. Con- sequently, h~ was unable· to convey his feelings in the way Features Writers Wanted Call6155 By JOAN GOTLm Contributor During the Fall term, the Psychology Department has been hosting a series of lectures which deal with issues in social. experimental, and develop- mental psychology. The speakers, who are researchers and practicioners, talk about their r~cent findings in their fields of study. Professor Suzi Beneck, the Lecture Series Coordinator, feels that the purpose of this lecture series is to \provide a chance tor all of us in the VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 department -- faculty and students - to learn together about areas of psychology which are new to us.\ In ad- dition, the talks are of general interest aimed to the whole Union student body. The first lecture dealt with the spcial psychology of death and dying. Dr. Thomas Blank, As~ociat~ Professor at Lehigh Umverstty, presented his lecture, \Making Dead: Euthanasia as a Social Issue\ on October 3. He discussed the social psychology of the definition of death across the lifespan, from premature birth to old age. . On · October 10, Dr. Amy Halberstadt, Assitant Professor of Psychology at Vassar College, gave a lecture about \Styles of Emotional Expression: The Effects of Family Socialization on Adult Communication Skills and Relationships.\ She spoke. about patterns she had studied of family emotional ex- pressiveness and how it affects individuals in adult life. The family that encourages emotional expression ·tends to produce individuals that are expressive, emotional, outgoing, and talkative. However, their perception of other peoples' emotions are not as strong as less emotionally expressive people. Dr. Halberstadt also men- tioned that culturally, there is a tremendous differentiation in expression. Some cultures don't accept emotional expression as proper behavior while other cultures are very expressive of their emotions. The third lecture of the series will be on October 24 at 4 p.m. Dr. Robert Savoy, Research Scientist from the Roland Institute for Science, will discuss his studies of \The McCollough Effect: Exploring a Perceptual Mystery.'' The Lectures have been taking place in the Psychology building in Room 213. They will continue throughout winter and spring terms.

PageS CONCORDI!JNSIS, October 17, 1985 OliiltOlrbirnsis FOlllUkd at { lmon Co/11:8~ 1877 ------------ -------- In Defense Lately, Concordiensis ·has had to bear the brunt of criticism from professors as well as members of the student body. It seems that one person's dissatisfaction with the paper has led others to voice their frustrations as well. Concordiensis welcomes suggestions as well as constructive criticism from its readers in order to improve its quality and serve the college community better. However, Professor Frank Gada's accusations against the paper in the October 10 issue of Concord.iensis were extreme and largely unmerited. As the editors-in~chief of Con- cordiensis, we feel the need to address these ac- cusations. First of all, as far as the Subcommittee on the Curriculum is concerned, we were approached by Professor William Zwicker, chairman of the com- mittee, last year and asked to help publicize the process of curriculum reform. Feeling that the issue was an important one, we agreed to print the statements of the committee members. We hoped that students would take the time to read them and consider them carefully. As stated in the September 26. issue of Con- cordiensis, the \position papers are presented here in Concordiensis so that students can offer suggestions as to possible changes that can be made in our Liberal Learning system.\ So, as was stated then, the original purpose of printing the statements, sub- sequent memos and other pertinent material was to generate a student interest in the cause. Professor Gada's letter in last week's issue has succeeded in helping readers to overlook this original purpose S;lndinstead to count the number of typos in Con- cordiensis each week. We find this quite unfortunate. We proof the paper carefully each week, but, as human beings, some typos do slip by us. We apologize for any in- convenience this may cause our readers. At the same time, however, we wonder if Professor Gado hasn't blown the problem a bit out of proportion. Secondly, Professor Gado has referred to our role in the issue of reform as \passive\. He bases this ac- cusation on the fact that we reprinted a memo that was circulated to the faculty on curriculum. Had he checked with this colleague, however, he would have found that Professor Zwicker had asked us to print that memo. We saw no reason not to reprint the memo in its original form. We m~ant it to serve as an in- troduction to the issue of the panel discussion to be · followed by a later article. That article appears in this week's issue on page three. Again, we hoped that students would read the memo and respond to it. If it has not generated the amount of interest that we had hoped, fault lies in the apathy of the student body, not in the \passivity\ of the paper. Finally, as the editors-in-chief of Concordiensis, we strive to put out a quality paper, one which is both interesting and informative. We are, however, Calderini and Raffaele, not Woodward and Bernstein, and somehow, we cannot compare the issue of curriculum reform with the Watergate in- vestigation.It must be remembered that Woodward and Bernstein were not attending college at the time of their investigation. It goes without saying that Concordiensis is quite a good paper, but it is not the Washington Post. Concordiensis is put together by a group of college students who, unlike many other student editors, are unpaid. We are here out of our dedication to putting together a good college newspaper. It is for this reason that unmerited accusations such as those made by Professor Gado and a few other members of the college commWlity are especially hard to swallow. In cc;mclusion, while we here at Concordiensis welcome your constructive criticism, \pot shots\ at the paper, don't do anybody any good. We look for- ward to working with you to .keep improving our paper in the futl!re. LETTERS Opposing Viewpoint Offered To the editor, Eric Lipman's commentary \Friend or Foe\ demonstrates the alarming mileage one can derive from misinformed rabble rousing. While his basic objective of generating interest from the apathetic student body is admirable, he develops weak arguments and reaches faulty conclusions. The recommendations af the Academic Affairs Sub-Council on the Curriculum will not, as Lipman claims, affect every student's GPA; its proposals would not be implemented in the near future, if at all. Kathy Keaveny is not a member of the sub-council; apparently, Eric has confused the committee with the first panel discussion, in which Ms. Keaveny was a participant. For the record, the committee consists of the following \nice people\: Professors Zwicker, Sorum, Thurston, Rudko, and student representatives Mos~ and Cooper (the sentence con-· struction of the commentary implied that Cooper is a professorj that is incorrect.) Lipman contends that ·the committee will initiate change only in order to make itself look good. Perhaps he should con- sider another scenario: a student, wary of any change, will tenaciously cling to an . imperfect system. Student opposition to Gel Time and the split-semester proposal was primarily due to a neurotic concern for maintaining the status quo; it appears that the reaction to curriculum reform will be similar. The inequity .of the liberal learning science courses con- stitutes only one issue which the committee will examine. Let us stand in the shoes of Eric speaking to the committee about this issue: Lipman: Eliminating the liberal learning science courses would be harmful to the GPA's of the students. Committee: Are you suggesting that the coUege should design the curriculum in order to maximize it's students GPA's? Lipman: Well, uh ... yes. Committee: Isn't the grade supposed to reflect the effort which a student has devoted to the class? Lipman: I suppose so. Committee: Then aren't you suggesting that students should avoid courses which may require greater devotion and may not guarantee a high grade? - If the preceeding scene sounds unlikely, then find last week's issue and count how many times grades are men- tioned. And while you're at it, read the statements in the October 3rd edition instead of relying on misinformed and ill- conceived commentary. David Beal '86 Subcouncil Chair Responds To the editor, On page 8 of last week's Concordiensis, Professor Gado castigated your paper for the entirely passive role it has so far played in the curricular reform discussion. I share Frank's feelings, but I thing it's too soon to give up hope. Surely, eventually . . . In fact, on page 9 of the same edition Eric Lipman's com- mentary provides the first vigorous student response. Unfortunately, Eric, your narrowness of vision takes my breath away. Despite the outstanding job done so far by student panelists Keaveney, George, and Beal and representatives Cooper and Moss, your response will seriously cripple the credibility of future student commentary -on academic matters, unless it is soon answered by more responsible students. The problem is not so much in your concern over g:rade point averages, because it is true that culling the catalog (of those courses designed for non- A.ll letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters . must be signed bu.t names will be . withheld . upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis majors which are guts) might have an effect on grade point avet·ages. I think that most of the campus would hope and expect such an effect to be slight, but it may be worthwhile exploring GPA consequences. Eric, the flaw is in your un- stated and probably un- conscious assumption that GPA considerations are the fun- damental particles .of the college universe-that all motives are built up of such considerations. It may surprise you to learn that I have not heard from any ''Biology majors (who) are upset that someone fr.om the Humanities can take 'easier' Biology courses than they can\ but that I have heard a number of comments from students who took C and F credit courses designed for non-majors and felt that the courses were in- sufficiently challenging, rigorous, interesting or relevant (of course, some technical courses for non-majors were praised). Perhaps Eric, some students occasionally choose their courses on the basis of bizarre factors such as interest in the material, desire to test their own limits, etc? Sincerely, William Zwicker Chair, Subcouncil on the Curriculum P.S. I applaud your willingness to stick your neck out, Eric, even as I try to cut it off. P.P.S. Frank, it's not fair to chide Concordiensis for not checking with you before printing your statement. I told you I would be arranging such publication when I asked you to write it. ,/ I - T( to til in to G 01 al gJ tl n: SJ 0 'I p t' 1 t r t t

PageS CONCORDI~NSJS, October 17, 1985 Olnttnlrbirnsis FouruJ,cl al llmon CollqJ~ 18 7? ------------ -------- In Defense Lately, Concordiensis has had to bear the brunt of criticism from professors as well as members of the student body. It seems that one person's dissatisfaction with the paper has led others to voice their frustrations as well. Concordiensis welcomes suggestions as well as constructive criticism from its readers in order to improve its quality and serve the college community better. However, Professor Frank Gada's accusations against the paper in the October 10 issue of Concordiensis were extreme and largely unmerited. As the editors-in~chief of Con- cordiensis, we feel the need to address these ac- cusations. First of all, as far as the Subcommittee on the Curriculum is concerned, we were approached by Professor William Zwicker, chairman of the com- mittee, last year and asked to help publicize the process of curriculum reform. Feeling that the issue was an important one, we agreed to print the statements of the conunittee members. We hoped that students would take the time to read them and consider them carefully. As stated in the September 26 issue of Conm cordiensis, the \position papers are presented here in Concordiensis so that students can offer suggestions as to possible changes that can be made in our Liberal Learning system.\ So, as was stated then, the original purpose of printing the statements, sub- sequent memos and other pertinent material was to generate a student interest in the cause. Professor Gado's letter in last week's issue has succeeded in helping readers to overlook this original purpose andinstead to count the number of typos in Con- cordiensis each week. We find this quite unfortunate. We proof the paper carefully each week, but, as human beings, some typos do slip by us. We apologize for any in- convenience this may cause our readers. At the same time, however, we wonder if Professor Gado hasn't blown the problem a bit out of proportion. Secondly, Professor Gado has referred to our role in the issue of reform as \passive\. He bases this ac- cusation on the fact that we reprinted a memo that was circulated to the faculty on curriculum. Had he checked with this colleague, however, he would have found that Professor Zwicker had asked us to print that memo. We saw no reason not to reprint the memo in its original form. We meant it to serve as an in- troduction to the issue of the panel discussion to be followed by a later article. That article appears in this week's issue on page three. Again, we hoped that students would read the memo and respond to it. If it has not generated the amount of interest that we had hoped, fault lies in the apathy of the student body, not in the \passivity\ of the paper. Finally, as the editors-in-chief of Concordiensis, we strive to put out a quality paper, one which is both interesting and informative. We are, however, Calderini and Raffaele, not Woodward and Bernstein, and somehow, we cannot compare the issue of curriculum reform with the Watergate in- vestigation.It must be remembered that Woodward and Bernstein were not attending college at the time of their investigation. It goes without saying that Concordiensis is quite a good paper, but it is not the Washington Post. Concordiensis is put together by a group of college students who, unlike many other student editors, are unpaid. We are here out of our dedication to putting together a good college newspaper. It is for this reason that unmerited accusations such as those made by Professor Gado and a few other members of the college community are especially hard to swallow. In conclusion, while we here at Concordiensis welcome your constructive criticism, \pot shots\ at the paper, don't do anybody any good. We look for- ward to working with you to keep improving our paper in the future. LETTERS Opposing Viewpoint Offered To the editor, Eric Lipman's commentary \Friend or Foe\ demonstrates the alarming mileage one can derive frem misinhrrned rabble rousing. While l:tis basic objective of generating interest from the apathetic student body is admirable, he develops weak arguments and reaches faulty conclusions. The recommendations of the Academic Affairs Sub-Council on the Curriculum will not, as Lipman claims, affect every student's GPA; its proposals would not be implemented in the near future, if at all. Kathy Keaveny is not a member of the sub-council; apparently, Eric has confused the committee with the first panel discussion, in which Ms. Keaveny was a participant. For the record, the committee consists of the following \nice people\: Professors Zwicker, Sorum, Thurston, Rudko, and student represeNtatives Moss and Cooper (the sentence con- struction of the cemmentary implied that Cooper is a professor; that is incorrect.) Lipman contends that the committee will initiate change only in order to make itself leok good. Perhaps he should con- sider another scenario: a student, wary of any change, will tenaciously cling to an imperfect system. Student opposition to Gel Time and the split-semester proposal was primarily due to a neurotic concern for maintaining the status quo; it appears that the reaction to curriculum reform will be similar. The inequity of the liberal learning science courses con- stitutes only one issue which the committee will examine. Let us stand in the shoes of Eric speaking to the committee about this issue: Lipman: Eliminating the liberal learning science courses would be harmful to the GPA's of the students. Committee: Are you suggesting that the college should design the curriculum in order to maximize it's students GPA's? Lipman: Well, uh ... yes. Committee: Isn't the grade supposed to reflect the effort which a student has devoted to the class? Lipman: I suppose so. Committee: Then aren't you suggesting that students should avoid courses which may require greater devotion and may not guarantee a high grade? If the preceeding scene sounds unlikely, then find last week's issue and count how many times grades are men- tioned. And while you're at it, read the statements in the October 3rd edition instead of relying on misinformed and ill- conceived commentary. David Beal '86 Subcouncil Chair Responds To the editor, On page 8 of last week's Concordiensis, Professor Gado castigated your paper for the entirely passive role it has so far played in the curricular reform discussion. I share Frank's feelings, but I thing it's too soon to give up hope. Surely, eventually ... In fact, on page 9 of the same edition Eric Lipman's com- mentary provides the first vigorous student response. Unfortunately, Eric, your narrowness of vision takes my breath away. Despite the outstanding job done so far by student panelists Keaveney, George, and Beal and representatives Cooper and Moss, your response will seriously cripple the credibility of future student commentary on academic matters, unless it is soon answered by more responsible students. The problem is not so much in your concern over grade point averages, because itistruethat culling the catalog (of those courses designed for non- All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request& Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of 1he editorial board of Concordiensis majors which are guts) might have an effect on grade point averages. I think that most of the campus would hope and expect such an effect to be slight, but it may be worthwhile exploring GPA consequences. Eric, the flaw is in your un- st.ated and probably un- conscious asswnption that GPA considerations are the fun- damental particles of the college universe-that all motives are built up of such considerations. It may surprise you to learn that I have not heard from any \Biology majors (who) are upset that someone from the Hrunanities can take 'easier' Biology courses than they can\ but that I have heard a number of comments from students who took C and F credit courses designed for non-majors and felt that the courses were in- sufficiently challenging, rigorous, interesting or relevant (of course, some technical courses for non-majors were praised). Perhaps Eric, some students occasionally choose their courses on the basis of bizarre factors such as interest in the material, desire to test their own limits, etc? Sincerely, William Zwicker Chair, Subcouncil on the Curriculrun P .S. I applaud your willingness to stick your neck out, Eric, even as I try to cut it off. P.P.S. Frank, it's not fair to chide Concordiensis for not checking with you before printing your statement. I told you I would be arranging such publication when I asked you to write it. . Editors~in..Cbief Sarah Calderini~ Linda Raffaele · News Editors Jaq Baran, Maureen Coleman Features. Editor Maggie Boitano, Mickey Bradley Associate Features Editor LeeAnn Schmidt Co:mmentary Page Editor Greg Fay Arts Editors Debbie Albert, Tod Di.nlmick · Campus Page Editors Barbara Doyle, Karen RuJia Sports Edit()rs . . Jay Grossman. Charlie Slotnik Advertisin~ Editors Debbie Rose, Ellen Slipp, Lauren Sobel Assoc. Adv: Editor Amy Rosenkrantz Business Managers Keith Conklin, Nancy Grw:ldnian Photo Editor Dave Gruber ASsoCiate Photo Edit()r · Stuart Odell Sports Photo Editors InEtrid Koch. Pat Merritt Subscriptions Editors Bill Fenstermaker, Daniel Nicoli Staff; Rich Allen, Peter Agricob:h Attdr~a Bugbee, Ted Can!J.,~>n) Card~ ~errone, Bob Gr.~dall, Tony D1Jnaif, Colleen Dundon, Fred EiSman, J?aul .. EmsbotAdam Falk, Michael ·Glass~ Dave Gulliver 1 Kim Hantroolt, Monique Harrison, Andy Hodgkin, Jane . Kissel, Beth Levine, Eric Lipman, Cathy Markes~ Diane Mehta:, Joanne MeAndrews 1 Judy Price, Sergio Rampezmttl Joy Runyon, Valerie Sarwin, Laura Shapiro, Chris Sheridan, Mary Sol~y, JuUe Steinberg, 'Conrad Tatge, Amy Walsh. Photo Staff: . Mike Bowman, Stuart Odell CONCORDIENSJS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Carnegie Hall, Schnectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications. Inc., Box 383~ Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563~3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter every three weeks. Subsc.noiption rate: $21 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College Press·Service (CPS) and utilizes theCGllege News Bureau (CN8). Office Telephon~(518) 370-6155 . r: I. i I I ' ' i ; , ' i i ' i I I ' ! i \ i I , ~ r 1 ' 0 ' I ·'· ''· - I - pi tt H u N tl b 1 t 'i 1 l ( t

i . - CONCORDIENSJS, October 17, 1985 Page 9 LETTERS. c-oMMENTARIES Concordiensis Defended To the editor, ~ course Concordy deserves to be criticized from time to time. You have made mistakes in the past and you will continue to do so in the future. However, I believe that Frank Gado's letter last week was way out of line. I was absolutely appalled. It seems that your greatest offense was in missing the typo, thereby allowing his name to be .printed with a spelling error. Oh, horror of horrors! The hard work and dedication of the entire editorial staff of Concordy is appreciated by most people. Do not allow one man's obvious bitterness to discourage you in your dedication. If you don't make mistakes, how will you learn? I'm surprised that an educator is so intolerant of human error So, keep up the good work and do the best you can. No one asks for perfection, except perhaps Mr. Gado. I think that some of the things which he cited as \mistakes\ were obviously said to scratch some other itch. For instance, how can he even consider blaming the present editors for things that happened in the 1970's? And how can he possibly compare your reporters to Woodward and Bernstein? That's laughable. Seems as though he needs something to say in order to comple the bone he was picking. · Too bad .he doesn't have enough scholarly work to keep him busy. Maybe then he wouldn't have time to nit-pick and scream about human iin- perfection. Name Witheld Upon Request Drinking Age Stays 19 To the editor, As the hallowed day ap- proaches us in December, when those of us between the ages of 19-21 lose one of our rights, let us keep in mind one thing: the New York State law prohibits the purchase of alcoholic beverages to those under the age of 21. However, citizen~ between the ages of 19-21 (in- cluding Union College students) still maintain the tight to consume alcoholic beverages. In addition, let us remember that, at times, almost half of the student body will have the right to both purchase and consume. I should hope that the ad- ministration of Union College and the campus community, especially those who are pushing for a dry campus, will uphold the remaining rights that students retain under the present New York State law. Name Withheld Upon Request Student Clarifies Legend To the editor, I would like to comment on the version of a local segend which appears on page 4 of our 1985-86 Academic Register. The legend has to do with the ghost of Jackson's Garden and how the girl became a ghost. Although it is only a legend and cannot be verified historically, I wish to defend the early Dutch settlers of Schenectady by reminding the non-locals of some area history. First of all, it is an historical fact that no witches were burned at the stake anywhere in North America. Even at the height of the Salem witch trials, they were hanged, drowned, etc., but never burned. Secondly, it is more likely to have been the Indians who killed the girl, since it occurred only a few years before the Schenectady Massacre, which occurred on the evening of February 8, 1690, and was conducted by the · French and Indians. The way~I have always heard the story is that: One night, the young girl left the safety of the Stockade, which contained all of Schenectady at the time, to meet a lover at Hans Groot's Kil (Kil is the Dutch word for 'stream'), which is the stream running through what is now Jackson's Garden. The girl was killed by Indians while sear- ching for the boy, who never showed up. It is believed that her ghost can occasionally be seen still wandering along the banks of the 'kil', searching for her lover and calling softly to him. Being · a Schenectadian of Dutch descent, I feel it is my duty to set the record straight as to who committed the crime. If you don't believe me, wait in Jackson's Garden on the next foggy night with a harvest moon and ask the young girl you will meet. She'll know. She was there! Sincerely James Van Vechten Stoddard Class of'88 Winter Term Preregistration Procedures The procedures for winter preregistration will be the same as those used for the fall term. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar 1 S staff. Preregistration materials (the ' 1 Pregistration Course Request Form 11 and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday Oct. 28. Students snould review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list/t courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. l,...ists for these courses will be posted by the relevant depart- ments on Wed. Oct. 30. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Fri. Nov. 1 to Hnd out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a course reservation card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A 11 LISrr COURSE WITHOUT A RESERVATION CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQU 1 RE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for ·an independent study will reql)ire written permission of the supervising faculty member. The date and time for each studentrs preregistration appointment will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form. 11 Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday Nov. 7 and no late preregistration_will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/ Add period at the start of the winter term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their 11 Pregistration Course Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistrationl. Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire stil-l are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are dosed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process wilt take a student no more than ten minutes at the ·most. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter termr except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. December graduates should inform the Office of the- Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall term. Acquaintance Rape: A Grave Problem ByLYNNHANO In the past few years at Union the possibility of rape has been a concern of women on campus. Spurred on by a couple of isolated incidents of a woman being chased at night or ap- proached in empty academic buildings, the campus put on its guard. Security was tightened up. Women began being more cautious and not walking alone at night. Even an escort service was created to insure that female students would never have a reason to walk home in the evenings. The fear was of the not-to-be-trusted, Schenectady towny who· lurks ab.Qut the campus after dark in search of his prey, the vulnerable Union coed. I ar:n not belittling the caution that overtook Union. In fact, this heightened awareness of the dangers of walking alone at night can only benefit women students at Union and after. The irony is that the likelihood of a student being raped by some unknown assailant is very small. According to an ex- tensive survey done by Ms. magazine, one fourth of women in college today have been victims of rape or attempted rape· and almost 90 percent knew their assailants. In cannpuses across the country, and Union is not exempt from this, incidents of \aquaintance rape\ occur frequently and usually go unreported. The Ms. magazine study, which reached more than 7000 students at 35 schools showed some interesting statistics. Fifty-two percent of all the women surveyed have ex- perienced some form of sexual victimization. Of the women who were raped, almost three quarters did not identify their experience as rape. One in every 12 men admitted to fulfilling the legal definition of rape, yet virtually none of these men identified themselves as rapists. Fo.rty-seven percent of the rapes were by first or casual dates, or by romantic aquaintances. More than one third of the women raped did not discuss their experience with anyone and more than 90 percent did not tell the police. The scary thing about these statistics is that they are not so hard to believe. Most women are reluctant to say that they were raped. At Kent State University, female students were asked if they had secual intercourse against their will through use of threat or force (the legal definition of rape). Of those who answered yes only 57 percent went on to identify their experience as rape. Some people will say that there is a gray area between consented sex and rape which, depending on the signals given, is hard to define. It is true that men and women must begin to be more honest with their in- tentions in order to avoid misunderstanding. At the same time, no kind of game playing or mixed signals justifies the use of force. A commonly-used male response to a woman who says she was forced into sex is that she asked for it and even though she said no ·'she really wanted it. No woman, no nnatter how provocative she may act, deserves to be raped. As I have pointed out in this article, acquaintance rape is a real problem. It is a warped societal attitude that allows this topic to be taken lightly. 1'hat discourages women from coming forward, as if they are the culprits for having been abused. Perhaps women need to take the same precautions when going out on campus as they do walking around . the city at night. Being aware of the possible consequences of one's own actions is a guard but not a cure t-o the problem .. The at- titudes of men and women regarding this matter must change. Rape is not a small matter, it is a felony involving no small sentence and should be viewed as such. In order to insure timely billing for the upcoming term, it is necessary for the Dining se·rvice to learn of your Winter term dining plans by Monday, October 21. Students who are currently enrolled in a Fall 1985 meal plan and who wish to continue in that plan will have their meal plan automatically renewed and billed for the upcoming Winter term. You do not need to do anything. Students who may wish to change or withdraw from their meal plan for the Winter term must contact Dining Services (3rd floor, Old Chapel, ext. 6050) by Monday, October 21st. Hebrew Conversation Table Every Wednesday 12:30 Hale House ~~ I

I ; i . t I i t !· ; • I ' ' I '. I ~ I 1 ! i ! I I ' I .I , I ~!. 1 1 l I ... CONCORDJENS/S, October 17, !985 Page 9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES Concordiensis Defended To the editor, Of course Concordy deserves to be criticized from time to time. You have made mistakes in the past and you will continue to do so in the future. However, I believe that Frank Gado's letter last week was way out of line. I was absolutely appalled. It seems that your greatest offense was in missing the typo, thereby allowing his name to be printed with a spelling error. Oh, horror of horrors! The hard work and dedication of the entire editorial staff of Concordy is appreciated by most people. Do not allow one man's obvious bitterness to discourage you in your dedication. If you don't make mistakes, how will you learn? I'm surprised that an educator is so intolerant of human error So, keep up the good work and do the best you can. No one asks for perfecthm, except perhaps Mr. Gado. I think that some of the things which he cited as \mistakes\ were obviously said to scratch some other itch. For instance, how can he even consider blaming the present editors for things that happened in the 1970's? And how can he possibly compare your reporters to Woodward and Bernstein? That's laughable. Seems as though he needs something to say in order to comple the bone he was picking. Too bad he doesn't have enough scholarly work to keep him busy. Maybe then he wouldn't have time to nit-pick and scream about human im- perfection. Name Witheld Upon Request Drinking Age Stays 19 To the editor, As the hallowed day ap- proaches us in December, when those of us between the ages of 19-21 lose one of our rights, let us keep in mind one thing: the New York State law prohibits the purchase of alcoholic beverages to those under the age of 21. However, citizens between the ages of 19-21 (in- cluding Union College students) still maintain the right to conswne alcoholic beverages. In addition, let us remember that, at times, almost half of the student body will have the right to both purchase and consume. I should hope that the ad- ministration of Union College and the campus community, especially those who are pushing for a dry campus, will uphold the remaining rights that students retain under the present New York State law. \Name Withheld Upon Request Student Clarifies Legend To the editor, I would like to comment on the version of a local segend which appears on page 4 of our 1985-86 Academic Register. The legend has to do with the ghost of Jackson's Garden and how the girl became a ghost. Although it is only a legend and cannot be verified historically, I wish to defend the early Dutch settlers of Schenectady by reminding the non-locals of some area history. First of all, it is an historical fact that no witches were burned at the stake anywhere in North America. Even at the height of the Salem witch trials, they were hanged, drowned, etc., but never burned. Secondly, it is more likely to have been the Indians who killed the girl, since it occurred only a few years before the Schenectady Massacre, which occurred on the evening of February 8, 1690, and was conducted by the French and Indians. The way,I have always heard the story is that: One night, the young girl left the safety of the Stockade, which contained all of Schenectady at the time, to meet a lover at Hans Groot's Kil (Kil is the Dutch word for 'stream'), which is the stream running through what is now Jackson's Garden. The girl was killed by Indians while sear- ching for the buy. who never showed up. It is believed that her ghost can occasionally be seen still wandering along the banks of the 'kil', searching for her lover and calling softly to him. Being a Schenectadian of Dutch descent, 1 feel it is my duty to set the record straight as to who committed the crime. If you don't believe me, wait in Jackson's Garden on the next foggy night with a harvest moon and ask the young girl you will meet. She'll know. She was there! Sincerely James Van Vechten Stoddard Class of '88 Winter Term Preregistration Procedures The procedures for wmter preregistration will be the same ilS thosC' us0cl for the fall term. Each student has been assigned a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Preregistration materia Is (the\ Pregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Monday Oct. 28. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the relevant depart- ments on Wed. Oct. 30. Students should sign the list to indicate an interest. Students should then return to the department on Fri. Nov. 1 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those students admitted to a list course must secure a course reservation card from the department. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A RESERVATION CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study will require written permission of the supervising faculty member. The date and time for each student's preregistration appointment will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday Nov. 7 and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/Add period at the start of the winter term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their \Pregistration Course Request Form\ (this form must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistration .form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the winter term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. December graduates should inform the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall term. Acquaintance Rape: A Grave Problem ByLYNNHANO In the past few years at Union the possibility of rape has been a concern of women on campus. Spurred on by a couple of isolated incidents of a woman being chased at night or ap- proached in empty academic buildings, the campus put on its guard. Security was tightened up. Women began being more cautious and not walking alone at night. Even an escort service was created to insure that female students would never have a reason to walk home in the evenings. The fear was of the not-to-be-trusted, Schenectady towny who lurks about the campus after dark in search of his prey, the vulnerable Union coed. I am not belittling the caution that overtook Union. In fact, this heightened awareness of the dangers of walking alone at night can only benefit women students at Union and after. The irony is that the likelihood of a student being raped by some unknown assailant is very small. According to an ex- tensive survey done by Ms. magazine, one fourth of women in college today have been victims of rape or attempted rape· and almost 90 percent knew their assailants. In campuses across the country, and Union is not exempt from this, incidents of \aquaintance rape\ occur frequently and usually go unreported. The Ms. magazme study, which reached more than 7000 students at 35 schools showed some interesting statistics. Fifty-two percent of all the women surveyed have ex- perienced some form of sexual victimization. Of the women who were raped, almost three quarters did not identify their experience as rape. One in every 12 men admitted to fulfilling the legal definition of rape, yet virtually none of these men identified themselves as rapists. Forty-seven percent of the rapes were by first or casual dates, or by romantic aquaintances. More than one third of the women raped did not discuss their experience with anyone and more than 90 percent did not tell the police. The scary thing about these statistics is that they are not sn hard to believe. Most women are reluctant to say that the~ were raped. At Kent State University, female student~ were asked if they had secual intercourse against their will through use of threat or force (the legal definition of rape). Of those who answered yes only 57 percent went on to identify their experience as rape. Some people will say that there is a gray area between consented sex and rape which, depending on the signals given, is hard to define. It is true that men and women must begin to be more honest with their in- tentions in order to avoid misunderstandin~~· At the same time, no kind of game playing or mixed signals justifies the use uf force. A rommonlv-used male response to a woman who savs she was forced into sex is that she asked for it and even though she said no she really wanted it. :'-.\o woman. no matter how pro\·ocative she may act, deserves to be raped. As I have pointed out in this article. acquaintance rape is a real problem. It is a warped societal attitude that allows this topic to be taken lightly. That discourages women from coming forward. as if they are the culprits for having been abused. Perhaps women need to take the same precautions when going out on campus as they do walking aroW1d the city at night. Being aware of the possible consequences of one's own actions is a guard but not a cure t-o the problem. The at- titudes of men and women regardin~ thb matter must change. Rape is not a small matter. it is a felony involving no small sentence and should be viewed as such. In order to insure timely billing for the upcoming term, it is necessary for the Dining Service to learn of your Winter term dining plans by Monday, October 21. Students who are currently enrolled in a Fall 1985 meal plan and who wish to continue in that plan will have their meal plan automatically renewed and billed for the upcoming Winter term. You do not need to do anything. Students who may wish to change or withdraw from their meal plan for the Winter term must contact Dining Services (3rd floor, Old Chapel, ext. 6050) by Monday, October 21st. Hebrew Conversation Table Every Wednesday 12:30 Hale House

Page 10 \trHE FOREIGN SERVICE OF THE UNITED STATES Department of State Department of Commerce U.S. Information Agency Compete to become a Foreign Service Officer Applications are now being accepted for the Foreign· Service Written Examination, which will be held on December 7, 1985. They must reach the Educational Testing Service in PrincetAlll., NewJersey, by0ctober25, 1985. Obtain the official application booklet at your administrative/ placement office on campus, or telephone (703) 235-9369 for a C()py. A Foreign Service career is much more than just a job; it is a way of life requiring commitment, self-discipline, and sacrifice. However, the opportunity for personal .growth and satisfaction, as well as the possibility of influencing the course of history, could be yours. ·\\ . ~ Take the FSO examination on December 7. An !Equal Opportunity Employer SPANISH TABLE Meets Mondays for Lunch at 12:30 -Hale House- ELEK- SAVES ONCALCU EL 5510 EL 5500T 70 EL 5520 85 PC 1250A 70 PC 1260 75 PC 126, 1 3S 135 150 CE '25 119 CE 1261' 55 CE 150 150 [>~ ;!t.'!~~ CALCULATORS HP·11C Scientific...... 58 HP-12C Financial . 90 HP·15C Scientific ....... 90 H P·16C Programmer 90 FREE! New Advantage ~O!t\Nare module from HP w1th the purchase of any HP-41 at Elektek. Offer ends 11/15185 HP-41C ............ 105* HP·41CV ........... 168 HP-41CX ............. 245 HP-71 B Computer .... 399 Optical Wand . . . . . . 95 IF-\-'-. I Card Reader. . . . . . . . . 145 Printer(82143A) ...... 283 HP-IL Module... . . 95 Dig. Cassette Drive ... 400 HP·IL Printer ......... 335 ThinkJet Printer ...... 375 9114A Disk Drive ..... 600 Fhpll HEWLETT 11.:1.'..11 PACKARD *While limited supplies last. <:ALL TOLL FREE 600·621·1269 EXCEPT ILLINOIS, ALASKA Accessorres d•~counted !oo MasterCard or VISA by phone or mail Ma1t CasHier's check. Money Ord Pars. Check 12 wks to cit) Sorry no COD s. Add $4 001 sl•tem $1 ea aden shpg & hand! Shpts Ia It address add 7% tax Pttcas subJ to change Un1vers1ty; College P 0 s Welcome WRlTE 1no caiiSI tor tree catalog. 30-day return pohcy lor detect1ve merchan· d1se only ALL ELEK· fEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND NEW 'STOUALITV A.NO COMPLETE German Table Every Friday 12: 30- 1 : 30 p m Hale House Come and enjoy good company& good conversation! c. ' , ' ' < •. CONCORDIENSIS, October 17, 1985 S E M E S T E R ftJ&V THE WORLD IS YOUR CAMPUS Study around the world, visitingJapan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Sri Lanka, India, Egypt, Turkey~ Greece and Spain. Our 100 day voyages sail in January and September offering 12~ 15 transferable hours of credit from more than 50 voyage- related courses. The S.S. UNIVERSE is a 500 passenger American~ built oceari liner, registered in Liberia. Semester at Sea admits students without regard to color, race or creed. For details call toll-free (800) 854-0195 or write: Semester at Sea Institute for Shipboard Education University of Pittsburgh, 2E Forbes Quadrangle - Pittsburgh, PA 15260 SUDWEISER411•KING OF BEERSitoANHEUSER·BUSCH.INC,~ST. LOUIS )

CONCORDTENSIS, October l'G 1985 Page 11 r A pp· . E LLO's Come In. Try Our Pizza! L, · Breakfast· Lu~~~:J}_~~~~~--- 1. o o r----------sl ~-o o-·-o F F 1 With This Coupon : Expires Dec. 30 : --CALL US:~a£t DELIVERY ... - ______________________ , ---------------- . . . Try Our Pastas, Calzones Hot & Co'ld If a lian -subs) Buffalo Chicken Wings TEt.#J46•J155 . - 403 UNION S.T.- ~ - NeRR Ut~ \ON CoLLE:G-E.- · · Haircut /Design Perms Colour Facials Nail Lengthening Waxing Make-Up - Pedicure 1 S% Discount with Union ID card and 10% Discount with, Ad Offer expir·es Oct. 31 Our designers have been trained by Gooding Skin Systems SASSOON of London and JINGLES~~ H$Y.C. 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1230 Union College Speakers Forum Presents Robert Klein At Proctor's October 25, 8:00 p.m. Now YOU can have two of the most recognized and accepted credit cards in the world , .. VISA® and Mastercard® credit cards ... \in your name, EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN TURNED DOWN BEFORE! VI SA® and Mastercard® , the credit cards you deserve and need for* BOOKS* ID *DEPARTMENT STORES * TUITION * ENTERTAINMENT * EMERGENCY CASH* TICKETS* RESTAURANTS* HOTELS &. MOTELS * GAS * CAR RENTALS * . REPAIRS * AND TO BUILD YOUR CREDIT RATING! This is the credit card information kit students have been reading about in publications from coast to coast and Includes SPECIAL STUDENT APPLICATIONS for Mastercard&. Visa as well as other national charge card. Approval absolutely guaranteed so Hurry ... fill outthis card today ... Your credit cards are waiting! P··-------------D···· I CREDITGETTER, BOX 291584, · 1 I DAVIE, FL33329 I I . I I YES! I want VISA® /Mastercard® creditl I I cards. Encl()sed find $15 which is 100% I refundable if n.otapproved immediately. I I I I NAME I I. -------------------------- 1· ADDRESS I I CITY STATE ZIP ' I I I I PHONE soc. SEClJ RITY II I I I ·SIGNATURE PAPA~ CICCO'S PIZZA 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched delivery truck which ·enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and we wiU send our well stocked truck to your location. SUNDAY IS SODA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you will receive one coupon. Save them and collect FREE merchandise. LARGE P.AR1/ES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE Cal zones. White Pizza Gourmet Pizza Hot Sandwiches !ipeci .. lty Breads TRYOURFAMDUS BROCCOLI PIZZA I .,.,_ 4 A'• <~, .:. 4 \\·~ .t. ~·.i ·'-'\·~·. • • ', ·,.•J.•J..•,.·.,.·~ J .

Page 12 CONCORI/IENSIS, October 17. 1985 ~ • •• ~ • ' •• • • • ' • ~- ~ • • • • •• • ' • l ' • \ t. ,, ' THE ARTS The cast of \A Chorus Line\ performs the musical number \One\ at Proctor's. -A Stage By DEBBIE ALBERT Arts Editor The curtain went up, the lights went on and for a moment I felt like I was on Broadway. The long running Broadway hit, ''A Chorus Line,\ appeared at Proctor's from October 8-11. The play centers around the trials and tribulations which dancers, singers, and actors-\ actresses go through while auditioning for a Broadway show. The musical numbers are soothing to the ear, making \A Chorus Line\ one of the most successful Broadway musicals. Its story line follows many different paths as each character auditions alone. The show begins with the company singing and dancing to the number \I Hope I Get It.\ This song depicts the anxiety and tension which these per- formers constantly face. They I all express their need for the job, but as everyone knows, only a few will be selected. The talents of each performer ranges from the ability to sing, dance and act. However, there are some who cannot sing, dance or act, but have dreams of being on Broadway. The characters who perform solo nmnbers all reflect on an ex- perience in their adolescence which helped them to realize their goal of becoming a Broadway Star. One of the most enthusiastic nmnbers was \Hello Twelve, Hello Thirteen, Hello Love.\ The lyrics are about adolescent discoveries, concerning love, the opposite sex and growing up. During this musical number the theatre was filled with pleasant laughter, as most people were relating the lyrics to their own personal lives. Another favorite, the musical Album Review \ Hit munber \One is a com- bination of superb dancing and singing with the cast dressed in beautiful costumes. This nwnber is probably the most well kn6wn from the show and its performance was most entertaining. Many of the actors and actresses who are part of this traveling show have appeared in ''A Chorus Line\ at Proctor's Theatre. The lyri~ist, Edward Kleban, made his debut with this musical, along with com- poser Marvin Hamlisch making his Broadway debut. With the talent behind the scenes and the talent of the performers, the success of \A Chor11s Line\ was inevitable. If you were unable to attend the show at Proctor's and have never seen \A Chorus Line,\ try and seek out its travel route. The production is extremely enjoyable. It is \one singular sensation.'' Master Little Creatures Te·aches··· Class . . ·.··.·. Octeber ·:li9th-8pyro·6yra; ·Paiaee···.·T ·n~ttel\''ft' i~~~;::~~~=,- •.. Qcto~i. z5th~li.aj:i:iila$ia5~::.;g&xaee:naea:&;;;;::.s::.:.········ fJo:!ll. . , .. ,,... •. •.• .... ,, ...................... ,,.,,.,, ...... . m~=~=;C' Theater, .. a p,.m'! · ,, .... ,(;)etQO.er····. z. r~:Tln~ilillt~n.;,.,M !!~!!!f:~.'·· 1 ~§!!.·· By BRIAN MCKINSEY Contributor The \Little Creatures\ album from the Talking Heads is their first studio album in over two years. But time away from the studio certainly has improved this avant-garde quartet. The newest disc is comprised of simple passages not heard of since their \Talking Heads 7'1'' album. David Byrne continues as lead singer and songwriter accompanied by Chris Frantz on drums, Jerry Harrison playing keyboards and Tina Weymouth on bass. Very few outside musicians are used in any songs; they are merely dressing on an already fine plate. Many of the cuts are bright and cheerful. Babies and children are used as subjects in a few songs. This is evident in \Stay Up Late\ where Byrne expresses the feelings of a slightly resentful sibling towards the newest member of the family. \Creatures of Love\ tells of a curious youngster discovering sex and its place in the world ( . . . SO TillS IS WHERE I came from). Credit must be given on this tune for the mix ·of the steel guitar, played by Eric Weissberg, and Byrne's throaty vocal::;. It sounds close to country and western while still retaining basic Heads' sound. These Keep your eyes open for . •. SAM SHEPARD'S 11 COWBOY presents Act 1 : Jeff Winters w /Sandy Cook MOUTH'' and other pieces warm, full spirited songs are somewhat contrasted by the confusion of \Give Me Back My Name.\ In it, Byrne tells us that \something has changed\ in his life yet he cannot describe or pinpoint exactly what it is. The closing track, ·'Road to Nowhere,\ leaves you feeling that way. The song is a bit unclear but the grande choir work at the intro and the close of the song should overshadow this shortcoming. One leaves this song with a smile and a warm feeling inside. In his latest work, Byrne mixes a few simple ingredients and comes up with far more than the recipe promises. Sirr).plifying the melodies so that they better harmonize with his vocals, Byrne and company have delivered a truly WOIJ- derful album. The sound is clear and very forward. Overall, the mixdown was done above par and matches the quality of the rest of the album. Byrne's vocals dance under control in and out of the tight instrument sections. It is a relief to find such a fine albmn among all the commercialized recordings that predominate the market today. Admittedly, there are a nwnber of good albums available presently, but what separates \Little Creatures\ from the rest is simply quality over quantity. Act 2: Dave Provost With What?? Not another special guest M.C. ?! ! Tickets $1.50 available at Old Chapel ticket booth lst floor. in the Nott Memorial Theatre Oct. 31, Nov. 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 - A I tra apJ Ro in: ori str flu wa wi1 Lo thE So: ce COl we thl sp' ye die M~ D< m1 th be ar cr m la be hi er ... ' ... It' L( DE ar tb dl er tb w R pi te e1 al Ui \' I cl Cl .. I cl

Page 12 CONCORQIENSIS, October 17, 1985 THE ARTS The cast of \A Chorus Line\ performs the musical number \One\ c1t Proctor's. .: d Oil . r. ·' i' :::n' ! ,;,,:;;;., -··. ·A Stage By DEBBIE ALBERT Arts Editor The curtain went up, the lights went on and for a moment I felt like I was on Broadway. The long running Broadway hit, \A Chorus Line,\ appeared at Proctor's from October 8-11. The play centers around the trials and tribulations which dancers, singers, and actors- actresses go through while auditioning for a Broadway show. The musical nlilllbers are soothing to the ear, making ''A Chorus Line\ one of the most successful Broadway musicals. Its story line follows many different paths as each character auditions alone. The show begins with the company singing and dancing to the number \I Hope I Get It.\ This song depicts the anxiety and tension which these per- formers constantly face. They • • • all express their need for the job, but as everyone knows, only a few will be selected. The talents of each performer ranges from the ability to sing, dance and act. However, there are some who cannot sing, dance or act, but have dreams of being on Broadway. The characters who perform solo numbers all reflect on an ex- perience in their adolescence which helped them to realize their goal of becoming a Broadway Star. One of the most enthusiastic numbers was \Hello Twelve, Hello Thirteen, Hello Love.\ The lyrics are about adolescent discoveries, concerning love, the opposite sex and growing up. During this musical number the theatre was filled with pleasant laughter, as most people were relating the lyrics to their own personal lives. Another favorite, the musical Album Review GFWS 6 4 a nwnber \One is a com- bination of superb dancing and singing with the cast dressed in beautiful costumes. This number is probably the most well known from the show and its performance was most entertaining. Many of the actors and actresses who are part of this traveling show have appeared iN \A Chorus Line\ at Proctor's Theatre. The lyricist, Edward Kleban, made his debut with this musical, along with com- poser Marvin Hamlisch making his Broadway debut. With the talent behind the scenes and the talent of the performers, the success of\ A Chorus Line\ was inevitable. If you were unable to attend the show at Proctor's and have never seen \A Chorus Line,\ try and seek out its travel route. The production is extremely enjoyable. It is \one singular sensation.\ I Upcoming E.vents 1----~-,-----.--.--------.,...-------~ I I ! Little Creatures Teaches l Cl21SS I On October 19, Saturday, Mr .. I . Oleg Brian sky, a world renowned teacher,· '1 choreographer, and dancer will . be conducting two classes at the I Myers Studio at 1020 B~.rrett . 1 Street, Schenectady. The first 1 1 class will b. e a traditional ~1. ass in Classical Ballet Techruque, I followed by a class on pointe October Events October l9th,.Spyro Gyra, Palace Theater, 6 p.m. . The Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem Reunion Concert, Proctorts Theater, 8 p.m. October 25th-Ray Charles, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. . October 26th-Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. October 26th~A Salute to Gershwin, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m: October 27th-Allen Mills Halloween Organ Concert, Proctorts Theater, 3p.m. October 29th-Royal Winnepeg Ballet, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.In. October 31st-Vienna Symphony Orchestra, Proctorts Theater, 8 p.m. By BRIAN MCKINSEY Contributor The \Little Creatures\ albwn from the Talking Heads is their first studio albwn in over two years. But time away from the studio certainly has improved this avant-garde quartet. The newest disc is comprised of simple passages not heard of since their \Talking Heads Ti\ album. David Byrne continues as lead singer and songwriter accompanied by Chris Frantz on drums, Jerry Harrison playing keyboards and Tina Weymouth un bass. Very few outside musicians are used in any songs; they are merely dressing on an already fine plate. I with variations from traditional ballets: such as Sleeping I Beauty and Swan Lake. j Students 12 years and older are 1-------......._- ........ _______________ __,_ _ _, l asked to reserve a place in these . j classes as soon as possible, Many of the cuts are bnght and cheerful. Babies and children are used as subjects in a few songs. This is evident in \Stay Up Late\ where Byrne expresses the feelings of a slightly resentful sibling towards the newest member of the family. \Creatures of Love\ tells of a curious youngster discovering sex and its place in the world ( .. . SO THIS IS WHERE I came from). Credit must be given on this tune for the mix of the steel guitar, played by Eric Weissberg, and Byrne's throaty vocals. It sounds close to country and western while still retaining basic Heads' sound. These since Mr. Briansky has a class limit of 20 students per dass. The day long training, com,. mencing at 2:30 and ending at 5:30, will be followed by the famour dance film--'l'he Children o.f Theatre Street- which Mr. Briansky was the Artistic Djrector of in 19'16. Photographic Exhibit Tuition for the 3-hour session is $15.00 and admission' to the film is $2.00. Reservations are being accepted now by :phoning Ms. Myet·s at 1-893-2267. You may also register by visiting the Myers Studio and evening during the week or Satu;t7days. Art exhibit of black and white photographs by Martin Ben- jamin, assistant professor of artt will be displayed in the faculty lounge on the second floor of the Social Science Building beginning Homecoming Weekend. Working tn a large 16 ;r 20 inch format~ _ 'tnany of the photographs were taken with presents Act 1: Jeff Winters w I Sandy Cook infrared film which imparts a moody luminescence to the prints. The Social Scienee Division weieome8students, faculty, and .parents to view a . sample . ·Of Professor Benjamin}s highly innovative and personal images of light and life. The exhihit will rutf trum Saturday, October 26, through Wednesday, November ?:1, . ~ Keep your eyes open for ... SAM SHEPARD 1 S 11 COWBOY MOUTH'' and other pieces warm, full sptrited songs are somewhat contrasted by the confusion of \Give Me Back My Name.\ In it, Byrne tells us that \something has changed\ in hts life yet he cannot describe or pinpoint exactly what it is. The closing track, \Road to Nowhere,.. leaves you feelmg that way. The song is a bit unclear but the grande choir work at the intro and the close uf the song should overshadow this 5hortcorning. One leaves this song with a smile and a warm feeling inside. In his latest work, Byrne mixes a few simple ingredients and comes up with far more than the recipe promises. Simplifying the melodies so that they better harmonize with his vocals, Byrne and company have delivered a truly won- derful album. The sound is clear and very forward. Overall, the mixdown was done above par and matches the quality of the rest of the album. Byrne's vocals dance under control in and out of the tight instrument sections. It is a relief to find such a fine album among all the commercialized recordings that predominate the market today. Admittedly, there are a number of good albums available presently, but what separates \Little Creatures\ from the rest is simply quality over quantity. Act 2: Dave Provost With What?? Not another special guest M.C. ?!! Tickets $1 . 50 available mt Old Chapel ticket booth 1st floor. in the Nott Memorial Theatre Oct. 31, Nov~ 1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9 - - A > • I ; -

A Rebound?. By TOD DIMMICK Arts Editor • fi Rumor has it that Super- tramp has lost the original appeal that it had when leader Roger Hodgeson left the group in 1983. The band, known for its original and unique use of in- struments such as piano and flute in innovative and exciting ways, became a super-group with hits such as ''Take the Long Way Home,\ \Crime of the Century,\ and \The Logical Song.\ When news of the con- cert appeared, there was . considerable interest, and I wondered if they could vault themselves back into the spotlight they· commanded five years ago. The opening act didn't help out much either. The Motels, claimed Metroland's Donald Wilcock, were selling more tickets than Supertramp, the group they were supposed to be opening for at RPI last week. The Motels are an aggressive and ambitious grqup with creativity to match. Without much stageplay, the group · launched into a medly of songs both old and new. Among old hits included precise and energetic reproductions of \Suddenly Last Summer,\ \Take the L out of Lover and It's Over,\ and \Only the Lonely Can Play.\ The Motels' new LP \Shock\ is selling well and with good reason. The songs that I identified from this albwn during the concert were energetic and at least as good as their past work. The percussion was particularly good. \Instant Rub,\ a dramatic, polished piece developed through ex- tensive synthesizer use with an effect that seemed to me to be almost Thompson Twin-ish. The unavoidable top-40 number, \Shame turned out to be well choreographed and a real crowd pleaser. The theme song, \Shock experimented with changing rhythm and acquired Film CommiHee Presents: This Weel<end 7 ,9,11 55016 Admission $1.00 Woody Allen's · ''Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex, But We're Afraid To Ask\ Tuesday, Oct. 22nd 7,9,11 55016 Admission $1.00 CONCORDIENSIS,'October 17,1985 ~age 13 an almost plaintive note. The Motels, overall, presented a smooth and invigorating con- cert that shows they will still go a long way. Supertramp used a lot of effort and imagination to construct their stage. The group itself surprised me, having grown from a small group to at least eight people. The concentration is still on keyboards, with piano as well forming the core of Supertramp melody. harmony and everybody living happily together in bliss. My reaction to this was to get a bit annoyed. Sometime I would like to go to a .concert and not feel as though I am at- tending another lecture. I am exaggerating, but the precedent has already been made by many other gro,ups, and the trendiness of the no-nukes message has made it somewhat tiresome in the rock context. Supertramp put on a good show last week. Yet the nature of the show was to depend on the good effects ofthe old tunes that we all wanted to hear. The Motels are moving forward fast, and Supertramp needs to do the same if it is to regain its past popularity. Unfortunately, while creative staging created an interesting format for a good presentation of old songs, foward movement was not very apparent. THE ARTS Robert Klein, an old Union favorite, will be appearing at Proctor's Theatre on October 25, at 8:00p.m. (Homecoming). Tickets are available at the Student Activities Box Office. The concert, interestingly enough, depended only in part on music. A huge video screen behind the stage betrayed that, in addition to changing in size, the group has decided to jump on the peace bandwagon as well. Shots of hisotory, of politics and wars in the form of a timeline followed the pace of the music for the first couple of songs. Performances of \Old Brown Shoes\ and \Bloody Well Right'' were notable for their polish and the group's ability to capture the old energy. Maya Music Marvel It became very apparent how much the group depends on keyboards and pianb for their style. The recreation for these songs was masterful, yet they were just that, recreations. The new creations of Supertramp to me did not show the same in- ventiveness or interest that apparently left with Hodgeson. \Cannonball one of the new songs, was fast packed, and seemed to be the number with the most energy and originality. The combination of video and music for a while was fasciilating and added to the excitement of the concert. For one song, the screen followed a train on a miles-long track speeded up tenfold and in- vigorated the excitement of the song. Then as the end of the concert drew near, the video began to follow war and weapons, and the themes of WRUC 39.7 he • SlliiiO By SUSAN HAYES Contributor The Sanctuary Comtnittee of Albany and the Institute for Mesoamerican Studies at SUNY are sponsoring two concerts by the Marimba K anil, a Guatemalan Mayan band currently in exile in this country. The concerts will be on October 22 at 7 :30 at SUNY's Campus Center Assembly Hall (second floor of the Campus Center) and on October 23 at 7:30 at the Schenectady Unitarian Church (1221 Wendell Ave.-two blocks from campus). Admission: a $4 donation is suggested. The performance on the 23rd will include a live exhibit of Mayan dress and slides of village life. A selection of Mayan crafts will be on sale for It's back! The WRUC TOP 8.97! This prestigious listing should be posted on refrigerators everywhere for quick and easy reference. These were· the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. By calling the station at 370-6151, you can actually influence the outcome of next week's chart! Position Artist 1. The Cure 2. Talking Heads 3.HuskerDu 4. The Alarm 5. The Untouchables 6. INXS 7. 10,000 Maniacs 8. Thompson Twins 8.97 Prefab Sprout Album Label The head On the Door-Elektra Little Creatures-Sire Flip Your Wig-SST Strength-IRS Wild Child-MCA Listen Like Thieves-Atlantic The Wishing Chair-Elektra Here's to Future Days-Arista Two Wheels Good-Epic Program Notes: At 89.7 FM, WRCU is back and on the air over twenty hours daily ... Listen to WRUC Jazz weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m .... Watch out for WRUC tee-shirts as they are very stylish and are available in three three three colors . . . Broad;.. casting from Union College's Old Chapel, WRUC is your listening alternative. -compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director • • • ' ' ~ ' : ' ' ' • •• ! ' • • • ' ' •• the concerts, to benefit Guatemalan refugees in Mexico. The marimba is a traditional Mayan instrument, used for weddings, for sacred and secular festivals and devotional dance-theater performances. It is similar to the vibraphone, with a series of wooden keys tuned to a scale like the keys on a piano. Struck With rubber- tipped mallets, the keys reverberate while resonators beneath them amplify the sotmd. Most Marimbas have some 20 keys and, like the Marimba K anil, are played by four people, each holding two or more mallets. Since each performer plays a distinctive part, the bass, melody, and harmonies created often give the impression of listening to a group of in- struments. Maya Marimbas are always played \by ear\ and each Maya town has its own distinct and vast repertoire of Marimba songs, some to be played for dances which act out historical or mythological themes, others for more strictly social gatherings. The Marimba K anil is made up of four Maya, two Jacaltecs and two Kanjobals, who until recently lived on two sides of a sacred mountain named K anil, by tradition the dwelling place of the ancient Maya spirit deity K anil. Local legends include a tale about a powerful spirit who, in ancient times, approached three yotmg Mayas who were being forced to leave their town to fight a war. He ofered them supernatural powers to save all the young men from being taken to war, but at a price. The three could not return home. They ac- cepted, savjng their town from further losses, but remained exiled as spirit beings on K anil mountain. The Marimba K anil takes its name from this legend because the band members are among thousands of Maya who have had to flee their homes in recent years due to indiscriminate military attacks on their villages. They live with 600 other Maya in Indiantown, Florida, where they are mostly employed as seasonal farm- workers. Maraculously, they were able to carry out their Marimba on their backs to Mexico. and now, as in the past, it serves to bring together the remaining Maya community that cannot return home. Their music includes both sacred and festhe pieces, as well more popular Latin American songs, and they are able to demonstrate some of the dance roles from sacred dances such as the Dancf: of the Deer, which is tradtionally ac- companied by the Marimba. Their perf•)rmance this summer at tl1e Smithsonian Institute's American Folklife Festival was n major success. Their concert~· here will offer excellent music as well as an introduction to a cultu;e of our continent currently threatened by destruction. For further information please contact Susan Hayes of the Sanctuary Committee for Albany at 785·1879. •••••••••••••••••••• : The Arts Club : • is sponsoring a • • • :PHOTOGRAPHY: • • : CONTEST : : Homecoming Weekend : : Entries are due in Mrs. Marra,s office by Tues., Oct. 22nd. : For more info call Brooke x69Sl • • • • • •••••••••••••••••••

I : I . I ' ' \ l ; l . ' l ' ! ' ! ! \'1 . I ' ' ·.~ ' • I . ~ L . ~·- -· By TOD DIMMICK Arts Editor Rumor has it that Super- tramp has lost the original appeal that it had when leader Roger Hodgeson left the group in 1983. The band, known for its original and unique use of in- struments such as piano and flute in innovative and exciting ways, became a super-group with hits such as \Take the Long Way Home,\ \Crime of the Century,\ and \The Logical Song.\ When news of the con- cert appeared, there was considerable interest, and I wondered if they could vault themselves back into the spotlight they commanded five years ago. The opening act didn't help out much either. The Motels, claimed Metroland's Donald Wilcock, were selling more tickets than Supertramp, the group they were supposed to be opening for at RPI last week. The Motels are an aggressive and ambitious group with creativity to match. Without much stageplay, the group laW1ched into a medly of songs both old and new. Among old hits included precise and energetic reproductions of \Suddenly Last Summer,\ ''Take the L out of Lover and It's Over,\ and \Only the Lonely Can Play.\ The Motels' new LP \Shock\ is selling well and with good reason. The songs that I identified from this albwn during the concert were energetic and at least as good as their past work. The percussion was particularly good. \Instant Rub,\ a dramatic, polished piece developed through ex- tensive synthesizer use with an effect that seemed to me to be almost Thompson Twin-ish. The unavoidable top-40 number, \Shame turned out to be well choreographed and a real crowd pleaser. The theme song, \Shock experimented with changing rhythm and acquired Film Committee Presents: This Weel(end 7,9,11 55016 Admission $1.00 Woody Allen's \Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex, But We're Afraid To Ask\ Tuesday, Oct. 22nd 7,9,11 55016 Admission $1.00 CONCORDIENS/S, October 17, 1985 an almost plaintive note. The Motels, overall, presented a smooth and invigorating con- cert that shows they will still go a long way. Supertramp used a lot of effort and imagination to construct their stage. The group itself surprised me, having grown from a small group to at least eight people. The concentration is still on keyboards, with piano as well forming the core of Supertramp melody. harmony and everybody living happily together in bliss. My reaction to this was to get a bit annoyed. Sometime I would like to go to a concert and not ~eel as though I am at- tending another lecture. I am exaggerating, but the precedent has already been made by many other groups, and the trendiness of the no-nukes message has made it somewhat tiresome in the rock context. Supertramp put on a good show last week. Yet the nature of the show was to depend on the good effects of the old tunes that we all wanted to hear. The Motels are moving forward fast, and Supertramp needs to do the same if it is to regain its past popularity. Unfortunately, while creative staging created an interesting format for a good presentation of old songs, foward movement was not very apparent. Page 13 = THE ARTS Robert Klein, an old Union favorite, will be appearing at Proctor's Theatre on October 25, at 8:00p.m. (Homecoming). Tickets are available at the Student Activities Box Office. The concert, interestingly enough, depended only in part on music. A huge video screen behind the stage betrayed that, in addition to changing in size, the group has decided to jump on the peace bandwagon as well. Shots of hisotory, of politics and wars in the form of a timeline followed the pace of the music for the first couple of songs. Performances of \Old Brown Shoes\ and \Bloody Well Right\ were notable for their polish and the group's ability to capture the old energy. Maya Music Marvel It became very apparent how much the group depends on keyboards and pianb for their style. The recreation for these songs was masterful, yet they were just that, recreations. The new creations of Supertramp to me did not show the same in- ventiveness or interest that apparently left with Hodgeson. \Cannonball one of the new songs, was fast packed, and seemed to be the number with the most energy and originality. The combination of video and music for a while was fascinating and added to the excitement of the concert. For one song, the screen followed a train on a miles-long track speeded up tenfold and in- vigorated the excitement of the song. Then as the end of the concert drew near, the video began to follow war and weapons, and the themes of By SUSAN HAYES Contributol' The Sanctuary Committee of Albany and the Institute for Mesoamerican Studies at SUNY are sponsoring two concerts by the Marimba K anil, a Guatemalan Mayan band currently in exile in this country. The concerts will be on October 22 at 7:30 at SUNY's Campus Center Assembly Hall (second floor of the Campus Center) and on October 23 at 7:30 at the Schenectady Unitarian Church (1221 Wendell Ave.-two blocks from campus). Admission: a $4 donation is suggested. The performance on the 23rd will include a live exhibit of Mayan dress and slides of village life. A selection of Mayan crafts will be on sale for L ~ ~ :,:.' · . w. , • • • ~ • : •• . - WRUC 89.7 fM • HEitEO It's back! The WRUC TOP 8.97! This prestigious listing should be posted on refrigerators everywhere for quick and easy reference. These were the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. By calling the station at 370-6151, you can actually influence the outcome of next week's chart! Position Artist 1. The Cure 2. Talking Heads 3. HuskerDu 4. The Alarm 5. The Untouchables 6. INX:S 7. 10,000 Maniacs 8. Thompson Twins 8.97 Prefab Sprout Album Label The head On the Door-Elektra Little Creatures-Sire Flip Your Wig-SST Strength-IRS Wild Child-MCA Listen Like Thieves-Atlantic The Wishing Chair-Elektra Here's to Future Days-Arista Two Wheels Good~ Epic Program Notes: At 89.7 FM, WRCU is back and on the air over twenty hours daily ... Listen to WRUC Jazz weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m .... Watch out for WRUC tee-shirts as they are very stylish and are available in three three three colors . . . Broad~ casting from Union College's Old Chapel, WRUC is your listening alternative. -compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director the concerts, to benefit Guatemalan refugees in Mexico. The marimba is a traditional Mayan instrmnent, used for weddings, for sacred and secular fe::.tivals and devotional dance-theater performances. It is similar to the vibraphone, with a series of wooden keys tuned to a scale like the keys on a piano. Struck with rubber- tipped mallets, the keys reverberate while resonators beneath them amplify the sound. Most Marimbas have some 20 keys and, like the Marimba K anil, are played by four people, each holding two or more mallets. Since each performer plays a distinctive part, the bass, melody, and harmonies created often give the impression of listening to a group of in- struments. Maya Marimbas are always played \by ear\ and each Maya town has its own distinct and vast repertoire of Marimba songs, some to be played for dances which act out historical or mythological themes, others for more strictly social gatherings. The Marimba K anil is made up of four Maya, two Jacaltecs and two Kanjobals, who until recently lived on two sides of a sacred mountain named K ani!, by tradition the dwelling place of the ancient Maya spirit deity K anil. Local legends include a tale about a powerful spirit who, in ancient times, approached three young Mayas who were being forced to leave their town to fight a war. He ofered them supernatural powers to save all the young men from being taken to war, but at a price. The three could not return home. They ac- cepted, saving their town from further losses, but remained exiled as spirit beings on K anil mountain. The Marimba K anil takes its name from this legend because the band members are among thousands of Maya who have had to flee their homes in recent years due to indiscriminate military attacks on their villages. They live with 600 other Maya in Indiantown, Florida, where they are mostly employed as seasonal fann- workers. Maraculously, they were able to carry out their Marimba on their backs to Mexico, and now, as in the past, it serves to bring together the remaining Maya community that cannot return home. Their music tncludes both sacred and festh e pieces, as well more popt:1ar Latin American songs, and they are able to demonstrate some of the dance roles from Sdcred dances such as the Danc1: of the Deer, which is trad.tionally ac- companied by the Marimba. Their perf•Jrmance this summer at tbe Smithsonian Institute's American Folklife Festival was f: major s;.1ccess. Their concert~ here will offer excellent music as well as an introduction to a cultu~e of our continent currently tl1reatened by destruction. For further information please contact Susan Hayes of the Sanctuary Corrm1ittee for Albany at 785-1879. •••••••••••••••••••• : The Arts Club : • is sponsoring a • • • :PHOTOGRAPHY: • • • • • • CONTEST : Homecoming Weekend 8 Entries are due in Mrs. Marra's office by Tues., • Oct. 22nd. • • • • • &l : For more info call Brooke x6951 ~~QOOOOOOOO~COOOO®~O

Page 14 The Former Dutch Hollow Pub has moved to Hale House Dining Room. Come on in and enioy our friendly staff and delicious food. Brlng this ad in and receive a free large cookie or beverage with the purchase of a sandwich or entree. Valid until October 27, 1985 ANYONE INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN THE .. ARTS CLUB HOMECOMING PERFORMANCE CONTACT STEVE AT 346-0435 ······················~ • Get l Psyched j for t Next Weekend! t ...................... ! Wnton ~olltgt jfatultp ({olloquium Bruce L. Reynolds Associate Professor of Economics Is China Changing? Tuesday, November 12 at 4:30 p.m. SSO 16 Coffee & Tea at4:30 p.m. All are welcome to attend! ,. CONCORJ)llfNSIS, October 17, 1985 For The Times Of Your Life! Offering a unique and varied menu; specializing in prime rib, charbroiled steaks, veal and fresh seafood . .Burgers. pasta, omelettes, salads, and hearty sandwiches are also outstanding. Lunch served doiiy from 11 :30 a.m. Dinner served Monday-Friday 5-10 p.m. Private Banquet .Room · Major Credit Cords Open 1 days o week 56 Wolf ~d Opposite Colonie Center 459-5110 Saturday til 11 p.m. Sunday 4-9 p.m. Ligl1t Dining . in our popular Greenhouse and outdoor deck 11 :30 a.m.-12:30 a.m. .. in the Greenhous,e 11 :30 a~m.-3 p.m. a~he ~fib err~ BCXi . + I 1

. . I . CONCORDIENSIS, October 17, 1985 Yes, We're Back .. • finally W•R•U•C 89.7 FM Your Alternative Listening Station we have expanded our schedule in order to play more of the newest music as well as your favorites. For Requests Call: x6l51, x6154 Spe· ctacular .. sm Fashions• 10% Student Discount Along with our incredible selection of the firlest alpirle and cross country ski equipment, we carry the area's largest selection of desigrler ski fashions. Top name fashions for men, women & children on sale now. It's one thing to ski like a pro, but quite another to look like Orle. Come in and see us now! 346-7293 1901State St Schenectady JOIN THE UNION RIDING CLUB Ride for Fun or I ntercollegiately * Expea·t Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES For Union Students * Ga·oup Rates Available For Information about riding for fun, group rates and discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus or Lorraine Marra in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES Office in Old Chapel FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Specialize in C~tonese, . Szechuan & Hunan Hours: Sun-Thu 11:30·10:00 Fri-Sat 11 :30·11 :00 Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In We prep11re our foods. with ••• Just a Little Bit of L·uck and a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 1 0% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I.D, 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Hol'iday Inn Page 1~ LOANS ARRANGED: oebt consolidation business, expansion, mortgages, venture capital, air- craft and marine financing, farm and agricu ltura I, trucking, the.atrical productions - stage - screen - TV - video, educational, inventions, franchises, mining, oil drilling, casino andentertainment palaces, hotels, motels, ranches, or for any sound purpose including arbitrage lending and Barter trading. $1 Billion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs, or if in a hurry ca II 203-8~8-8552. BATES BUSINESS \ CONSULTANTS 123 Maple Ave., P .0. Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address \BATFIN\ We are the only money service in the world (that we know of) that serves borrowers 24 hours per day ( 8 p.m.-9 a.m. recorded service)d 365 days a year. 1 f you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or call Bates/Sorrentino for details •.

Page 16 CONCORDI£NSIS, October 17, 1985 FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (Contact Career Development Center for more info.) -The Public Defender Service for D.C., Mental Health Division is looking for interns during the school year and summer. Students will assist attorneys in preparing court cases. Good organizational, writing, and communication skills are important. \ -The WJLA-TV internship program is for college juniors interested in a career in broadcasting. The internship is offered during the school year and provides course credit. -The District of Columbia Lung Association has four voluntary internship positions. Internships are available in the areas of Anti-Smoking, Clean Air, Communications, and Lung Disease. -The Public Defender Service of D.C. needs interns to help prepare witnesses and their cases for trial. The ability to work independently, to communicate, and to use legal principles are important. -Physicians For Social. Responsibility (PSR) is a nonprofit organization working to halt and reverse the nuclear arms race. Interns have the opportunity to attend hearings, prepare fact sheets, work on the office computer, promote legislation, and perform clerical work. FRESHMAN\ -The Ford Foundation offers Doctoral an(). Postdoctoral fellowships £or minorities. It is a national competition for applicants interested in the sciences, social sciences, engineering, 11umanities, or mathematics. The deadline for the doctoral fellowship is November 1~, 1985. The deadline for tbe Postdoctoral fellowship is January 17, 1986. -Northeastern University offers London internships for the Fall and Spring semesters. Internships are offered i~ Political Science, Journalism, Business, Economics, and Legal Studies. -The Environmental Planning Lobl>y offers three- month internships for college students. Interns will be in- volved in cond11cting research, doing outreacll, working with the media, and working with people from the New York State Legislature. Paid employment. is also available. -The Connecticut Citizen Action Group ()ffers paid full and part-time internships. Interns will be exposed to skills such as communications, fundraising, and leadership. Students from all subject areas are welcome. -Arnold Pul>lic Relations, a New England advertising agency is looking for fall in- terns. Interns will gain prac- tical experience in public relations. -The National Wildlife Federation is calling for ap- plications for its Environmental Conservation Fellowships and Publication Awards Programs for the 1986,-87 academic year. Applicants for the Environ- mental Conservation Fellowships. must be pursuing graduate degrees and have been accepted for the fall semester of the 1986-87 academic _year. First year graduate students involved primarily in course work should not apply. For application forms call Leigh Muse at (703) 790-4484. -Learn the ins and outs of the investment broke rage business ... Top broker in the- area needs student assistants. Excellent opportunity to gain valuable work experience.Good pay, flexible hours: if interested call Timothy Holk 459-6861. FINANCIAL AID -The U.S. Air Force is of- fering the College Senior Engineering Program for the 1986-87 academic year. The program entitles selected engineering students to a wide variety of military entitlements and benefits including a monthly salary of $1,000 for up to 12 months of their senior year. To qualify for the CSEP individuals· must be U.S. citizens, meet certain Air Force physical and academic qualifying test requirements, and must not be beyond 30 years of age. For more information concerning the SCEP or other officer programs call 1,-800- · USAF-USAF or write: 3516 USAFRSQ;,RSOO, Stewart Army Subpost, Newburgh, NY 1255()..9999. ONE NIGI-IT AT 5£CU~ ITY IH!:.RE.''S A GIRL or-! n4t:.. PHONE! p, GIRL! LE-T 1'\~ TALk TO HE-I\! NO~ GEl f=I.'Wfi.Y! I GIV£ rr TO ME.! I You Sf\'< A NAkED MAN IS A.TTAGkiN6 Yo\J IN YoVR ROOK!? .DON'T WOKRYI MA'M · ITS PR.OSP.\3L'I' ONE. OF oUR ME.N! I..EI ME. SAY GooDBYE! I \ ND WE'.'~E. NOT: \,Jl,~E. ot<J ouR. FlKST POST m.sr GoFreE- BJ?..Eflck: PRE 5 E.'O!Jj) COfff.€:. BREAk you' 1\'t. NUTs! 1 Nf\P 1 £) ~'\'·ii-i ~ J. SHUT u f' ·' PAISA MISfR 113 .Jar St., S~ll'dr- l•dla •••om-ITl-7113· .--.... Bringin coupo~•- ... \ Complete Boytiqu, Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Ill' ass Gifts Jew~tlry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 1 d:00-6: 00 p.m .. • Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. Also accepting American ExDresi • PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED LAY-AWAY •. We will hold your purchase with a small deposit We Also Do Alterations I I CLASSIHEDS -FOUND: one gold charm on astroturf. Call Dave at 6896 for info. CLUB NEWS -MeeUng with Bishop Hubbard-sunday, October 20 at Bishop Scully High School, Amsterdam from 2-5 p.m. National ,Conference of Catholic Bishops and BishQp Howard Hubbard invite Women and Men of the Albany Diocese to · share their views about the concerns of women in the church and in society.· Any Union student who wishes to attend please contact Sr. Joan 37~087. -Campus Ministry Sponsors Lecturer-Monday, October 21 at 8 p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge Professor Bill Martin, \World Citizen\ and Professor of Chemistry at Union, will speak on ·\Star Wars.\ Professor Martin has studied Weapons and Arms Control at MIT and Harvard and is presently teaching a course on Nuclear Weapons & Arms Control at Union. Oct. 19-25 is National Peace with Justice Week. · -Trip to Auriesville- Wednesday, October 23 the Newman Club will sponsor an afternoon trip to Auriesville- Shrine of the North American Martyrs ( lf2hour drive). Departureat 1:30p.m. from Old Chapel Plaza. There is a- Mass at the Shrine at 4 p.m. and the group will stop for supper before returning to the campus before 7 p.m. Anyone interested call Sr. Joan 370-6087. . -Newman Folk Group-All singers and m~sicians in- terested in being p~rt of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on . Sunday may meet with Frian Paul at 6:30p.m. in the church to rehearse. -Kinde·rgarten Aides- Anyone interested in assisting Pamela Brown at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Tina Sciocchetti, 370- 2275. -Tutors for Computer Math-Anyone interested in assisting for one hour a week, Grades 6, 7, and 8 please contact Liz Karazim, 37~853. -The Film Committee presents Gremlins 10-18-20 at 7, 9, and 11 p.m.; and Everything You Always Wanted to KNOW About Sex; But Were Afraid to Ask 10-22 at 7, 9, and 11. Tickets $-1.00 available in the Old Chapel. Films shown in SS016. Anyone who is-interested in performing Homecoming Cabaret Contact Mark at 370~6637 Before Monday, Oct. 14th. Auditions will be held Soon!! PHONES: 372-7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWERF'> RQ. }f you like fas.hion - You'lllove SCHENECTADY, N.Y. e8Qoppe 133 Canal Square for fall. for fun 370oa4288 P.J ( ba It So tip le~ WE • ye thi thi no re It' 10 1 go ca be H F; Oil fr fr, or H th al th Cl CC bE p] rr: L fr

CONCORDIENSTS, October i7, 19,85 Page 17 fi'Jl I _.. ----------------------------------------- PERSONALS Gumby-Do you really think bagged milk will become a fad? It won't take the place of Brie. So when are we going cow tipping? Who knows, you may learn something about th~ mid- western style! ~Pokey 'TDDY ' A big quiche for a 40 out of 40. -A Little Acorn Brown Marjori~Do you like men in yellow v.w.'s? How about ones that use a word processor? I do! -Am Pum Friend Mary Soley ... Do I know you, I think we've met before, but I'm not sure ... ? It's time for a reunion ... Cabaret tonight! Daisy??? It's been a long time ... but I loved every minute of it? Let's go for three more ... O.K.? Donald GMO-Do you have a room I can redecorate?. The urge is becoming too much to handle? How about an accounting final? Fag. -Assoc. Decorat Lisa- Thanx for being a friend on Sat. passed. I needed a true friend who understood the freshman problem? I owe you one. -Maggs Dear POZ, Happy Birthday!!! You didn't think we'd forget did you? We all luv y~ Poz, happy 21 from the Soc. Med Gang of 85. To my secret admirer, Couldn't afford the pizza, and couldn't find the Nott. Let's just be friends!! Amy 0 (aka, the \tennis player\) Are there any messages for me? Rodolfo Gonzalez, Lost on campus and a long way from home We've worked for it-Not lefs do it ... \Look sharp\! Vitz, Congrats on last Sat. night. Too bad it took only four years. Drowning can be filii. HEY; VARSITY OA.R- SWOMEN, Are you feeling the Karma? Don't forget your sterioids; the Charles is only 3 days away! Your No.5 Dear Lydia-Nous trouvons le temps long sans toil We wish you were here. LOVE, Jennifer., Lori, & Liz~ Good going stone boaters. Let's rally and win in the spring. The Slide Lover Hey Lover boy, You can run my rutter anyday. Angelface Danny H. : I hope your bir- thday was as good as you ex- pected. Hope you had a happy one. Love ya, Julie Guisseppe- The Santa Claus Whiskers don't cutit. So buy a Bic and tell the little woman off. -Y&L SHATZROCK: We think you should have the party anyway. I miss the jester. - Y TP-Here's your personal. Thanks for the Halloween stuff. How was Montreal? Take care of Victor! - LP DEAREST L, I LOVE YOU! M. Lizzard-\Sorry I don't know how to send a telex but will this do? Have a nice day! Pozzy Toni, Debbie, Sam, Chele, Susan, and Maggie: · I love you guys. -P\woman Ski Mount Snow, Vermont for $15 per day. Purchase a MOUNT SNOW 6 .. PAC for $90 .and enjoy six days 'of big mountain Vermont skiing on any Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday (non;holiday) throughout the 1985;86 ski season. , Why conquer hills when you can challenge a mountain? Located in easy to reach southem , . , Vermont, Mount .for more information call (802)4.64 .. 8501. For the latest ski . . Snow boasts 12 , lifts (a summit gon- dola, 5 triple chairs, 6 d0uble chairs), 57 trails, 1700 vertical feet and 80% snowmaking. · · Purchase a 6-PAC at the Season Pass Office with a valid college picture 1.0. The 6;PAC is non;transferable. Mount euolU VERIIAONT Mount Snow Ski Resort Mount Snow, Vermoh.t05356 report call (802)464 .. 2151. Dave H. - Hi. Here's a personal just for you. Have a nice day. Love, Lisa Jennifer Wennifer, We miss you in Fox, too. Visit soon! - Lisa & Jo Roberta, Happy ? ? Birthday! I won't tell! Suzanne Great job Tri-O's! See what you can do with pizza, ice cream, great shirts, .and some practice! Love, Coach (not the nag!) Best of luck to the Varsity Crew women at the Charles. Row hard and I'll be-thinking of you! Love, Olivia Thank you outstanding oarswomen-Ruth, Kate, Marcie, Michelle, Marty, . Madeleine, Andrea, and May. You made me very proud! Love, Olivia Lesley F., Are you majoring in the Science of Blowdrying Hair? If so, we give you an A+. 4th Floor North ·Hey Chrissy Babe, I hope everything goes fantastic today. You deserve the best on your 19th birthday. Love Always, Stomper Babe For Sale: Cheap! Two young Bears w-o family. Have been mistreated most of their natural life. For more info caH 377-39ao- -ask for Abdhul Help. We have b~en Bear- napped!!!!!!! Give them whatever they want! Even you know what. Hurry, we don't know how much longer we can hold out. Love Shops and Big G To Myrna Loy: Who are you? We can't print your letter without knowing who you are! \Go ahead, wank my day.\ To my best friend in the whole wide world: Be cheery! The weekend is almost here. Remember, I love you -me. Hey Chupad, When are we taking CS-13? Thanks for listening to me babble. Love, The Posse I miss my Mo-Mo. Come visit soon. P.B. Patty & Becca-When's the first meeting of K-cubed? Bring thE doll. -P.B. Fipwayne-When are you going to take me for an airplane ride? -Jo Hey Chabot:Nice to see you got back to nature and slept among the trees. Watch out for waterfalls. -J&L Hey Splatt, Get a life! ! ! ! ! God What are U laughing at Rav(oops) Woodie PETEY SNoss or SMoss (w-o type) You owe me a new pair of fitted water bed sheets or I'm going to let everyone know what No. U were!!!!!!! FIP: \Stop your whining and go back to the party you dumb broads.\ Guess Who Happy Birthday PAM!!!!!:!!!!!!! How does it feeeeeel to be soooooooo old?!?!?!?!?!? I owe you role in the H20. Kapish? HAPPY BIRTHDAY KID!!!!!! Love Ahmad Sarah-We miss you in Fox. -Jo&Lisa P.S. I'm still looking for the refrigerator box. \He ain't heavy, he's my wanker.\ \Oct. 20-26 is wanker Awareness Week!\ We want a %lb. m&m regular and 1 Mb. m&m peanut Skellar- Thursday-6:36 p.m. or else. Wear paper hat on your heads! or else!!!!! Abdhul No Pigs \If I had a wanker, I'd wank it in the morning; I'd wank it in the evening, all over this land. I'd wank on strangers, I'd wank out warnings. I'd wank on the love between my brother and my sister, all over this land.\ -Peter, Paul and Made \Oct. 13-19 is Anti-Social Self- Gratification Awareness Week! Don't miss it! \ \One small step for workers, one big step for wankerkind.\ \The wank stops here!\ Emotion. • • Continued from page 3 combinations of emotionally expressive individuals. People bring into a relationship the stereotype that highly demonstrative people are friendly, outgoing, pushy and aggressive, while people low in emotional display are seen as cold, distant, quiet and calm. Studies show that individuals regardless of their particular traits, are more comfortable with highly expressive people. They are also more comfortable with their own family members than those of low expressive backgrounds. Although this study is based on only fifteen-minute meetings, the research does point out that tolerance of others and recognition of people's differences are based on how the other person's motivation is perceived. This, in turn, is affected by what we feel and how we show emotional expressfvity. TRYOUR OUTDOORCAFEJ c~~T~v STAf7~ ()~LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 NEW THIS FALL! UNION COLLEGE FALL SPECIALS Restaurant and Bar Mondays ALL DOMESTIC BEER Tuesdays ALl DRAfT BEER FREE Wednesdays CHICKEN WINGS Thursdays ICED TEAS Fridays MIXED HOUSE DRINKS Saturdays LADY'S NIGHT MICHELOBS (All Specials begin at a p.m. and End at 12 Midnight) 501 HaHie Street, Schenectady (518} 393-0594 $1.00 $3.00 2 FOR 1 $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 (pneblock from campus) ~~------------------·

.. Page 18 CONCORIJ.,IENSIS, October 17; 1985 By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor This week's Athlete of the Week honors are shared by two Dutchwomen: Cheryl Wash- - §&1\#t • * ® . V> Beth Wright burn of the field hockey team and Beth Wright of the women's soccer team. Wright leads the soccer team in scoring with five goals while her counterpart, Wahburn, is the team leader of On Sports .... Continued from page 19 undefeated (5-0). They have won 29 games in a row, and have not lost a regular season game in their last 45 outings. Furthermore, the Vikings have won four consecutive con- her respective squad with a career high eight tallies. Cheryl Washburn has led the field hockey team to its best record in recent years. Coming into the 1985 season, Washburn had totaled eight goals in three years, however, as coach Charlyn Robert said, \Cheryl has matured a lot as a player this fall. Things have really come together for her. She plays every game as if it were her last.\ Since Washburn was appointed co-captain, she has shown tremendous leadership both on and off the field. Robert notices a difference in the way the team plays when washburn is on the field. Beth Wright has excelled of late netting two goals in the women's soccer team's 4-0 win over Vassar and two goals in their 8-0 win over RPI for a total of four goals in her last two games. At the halfback position, Wright also leads the team in ference titles. On offense the Vikings are led by tailback Shane McCormack who has 555 yards rushing. The Augustana offense is averaging 360 yards a game. total points with 10. Wright is a political science major who hails from Springfield, MA and is in her second year at Union, while Washburn, a senior mechanical Cheryl Washburn engineering major comes from Greene, NY. Congratulations to these two fine Dutchwomen athletes as this week's athletes of the week. Although Augustana has not lost since the 1982 Stagg Howl when they fell 14-0 to West Georgia, this week they play undefeated Millikin (5-0). The Vikings only beat Millikin 19-16 last year and were trailing 16-13 with six minutes left in the game. Ruggers -Bounce Back By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff After a slow 2-2 start, Union rugby enthusiasts must have started to wonder about the strength of their team. After Union's strongest game of the season, however, the defending state champions have proved themselves once more. Thanks to a much improved scoring attack by Union's line, Union beat SUNY Albany last Saturday 16-9. The Union ruggers went up on the board 0 early in the first half on an o excellent sideline run by Steve t. Konlian. Hooker-kicker Dave o Blee converted the try to go up (/) 6..0. Albany came back in the first half with a penalty kick to put them within three, 6-3, However, the second half ap- peared to be all Union's. Bill Magnotta set the stage early in the second half as he broke loose down the sideline towards the try-zone, came upon some opposition, and pitched back to Kevin F.ortin who scored the try. Dave mee once again converted to put Union up 12-3. Albany came back once again within three, 12-9, when an Albany rugger ran through a few Union defenders into the try-zone. Union never let up, blocked and the fip.al score stood at 16-9 ..... Wing-Forward Dave Jennings played an excellent game for the Union ruggers. Jennings seemed to be a part of every play-of every hit. Matt Squires also played a big part in the game, always chasin-g after the ball. The English exchange student played his most intense game yet. Konlian, Magnotta, Fortin, Tim Riley, and Ron Amidon all put out strong performances on the line, as did Serum-half Co-Capt~in Jeff Wilson whose pursuit of the other team's baH handler helped Union immensely. The Killer B's were not as ·fortunate in their match up, however. Union's B team fell to Albany 12-8. Despite the loss, Union seemed to dominate play for most of the game. Steve Delano had both trys for the Union B team on two amazing runs, but because of near- impossible angles, Pat DiCierbo missed the conversions. Both of Albany's trys came in the second half and both trys r Harriers Defeat R.P.I. Too!l though, and in a play almost identical to the one in the first half, soon after, Magnotta found a hole and raced down the sideline. The unselfish rugger again passed the ball back right · were converted-proving the difference in the game. Delano had an excellent all-around game-rWining and tackling. Tom Muzzinigro played as aggressively as usual. Evan Collins seemed to be the spark in Union's flame during the second half. It looked as if Collins was abusing and tackling · anything and everything that moved. He showed more aggression during the second half than the whole Albany team showed in the whole game, but it didn't seem to be enough for the Killer B's who fell 12-8. By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff While the Union football and soccer teams were winning big at RPI this weekend, the Dutch- men harriers also came home successful as they defeated the Engineers during their homecoming weekend. With a strong team effort, the Dutchmen used all seven of their eligible scorers to nip RPI by a score of 28-29. The strength of the Engineers on Saturday surprised coach Russ Ebbets, as he went in looking ahead to upcoming meets. Union went to Troy at less than full strength, but he was able to use different people in the scoring and to displace RPI finishers. RPI finished two runners, who tied for first place over the five mile couse, in 26:45 with Union's Chris O'Donnell finishing third in 26:52 followed by Bill McRoberts in 27:01. Union placed the rest of their top five in the top eight. I W. X-Country At AlbanyJ By AMY WAI.SH ·Sports Staff Jenny Lee w..as right on her tail, finishing thirteenth in 20:14. Rounding out the varsity team Despite the transportation were: Jill Sheive (21:02), Lisa difficulties suffered by the Neidham, a junior at Albany Women's Cross-Country team Pharmacy (21:56), Barb Etzel last Saturday, the Dutchwomen (22:58), Liz Tremente (23:29) managed a fourth place finish and Lori Anderson (23:46). at the Capitol District Meet in In two weeks, the women will Albany. The women arrived at return to Albany to compete in the meet only 30 minutes tiefore the state meet. They are looking the gun, leaving very little time forward to a more relaxed pre- to warm up, and no time to race atmosphere, and even review the course. Regardless f u.r the r improvement . of the confusion, the young team However, before they face the remained poised and turned in best in New York, this Satur- their best performance to date. day, the women are due in Amy Walsh was the first Vermont to r.ace Middlebury in Union runner across the line, their last dual meet of the placing tenth overall in 20: 02. season. r Volleyballers Go To Oneonta I By SPORTS STAFF Last Saturday, the women's volleyball team traveled to Oneonta, NY for round robin tournament play. During preliminary action, the Dut- chwomen posted a 2-2 record beating Russell Sage and Plattsburgh while losing to Oneonta and Potsdam. The highlight of the action came against Plattsburgh which has gained honorable mention status in the national ranking system. Having previously lost to Pla~tsburgh during the season, t 'le Dut- chwomen defeated th. >~1 15-13, 14-16, 15-5. In that mat · Shelly Pino led the team offense with 19 setting assists, while Bar- bara Brady and Ann Hoban dominated the net play with 8 and 7 unreturnable spikes respectively. After beating Plattsburgh, Union lost to Potsdam 12-15, 8- 15, causing a tie between Union and lOth ranked Stonybrook for a place in 'the semifinals. The Dutchwomen had to wait over an heur to play Stonybrook in a single 15 point playoff game. The team fought off both physical and mental fatigue to give Stonybrook a tough game, only to fall short and lose 14-16, despite . strong hitting and serving by Suzette Collier. Union bunched their top runners into the first eight with just 56 seconds separating fifth man Ed Hart (27:48) and O'Donnell. Rounding out the Union quintet were Dave Defilippo making.. his scoring debut this season and Neal Ricks finishing sixth and seventh overall. before the try-zone-this 'time into the hands of scrummer Jeff Albrecht who ran the rest of the way towards the first try of his career. Magnotta's two assists exemplify the Union Rugby team's unselfish style of play. The confersion for this try was Next Saturday, Union faces Syracuse at home. Tennis Hopes to See Light By VALERIE SARWIN Sports Staff The women's tennis team coached by Anna Means has suffered due to its tough schedule. The season opener on Sep- tember 14 against Albany State was a disappoinement. The home team advantage did not help as the female netters dropped their first match 4-3. The second match was no consolation. The strength of the Russell Sage team was un- derestimated and the women suffered. a second loss. Unsuccessful but hard fought attempts were noted at 5th singles by Liza Farkouh and Claudia Dudack. The women's strongest effort to date was marked in their match against Colgate. Although the score read 9;0, the match was in no way indicative of the. way the match was played. One disadvantage to Union was the scoring procedure. In order to rush the match, a form of no-deuce scoring went into effect. Four people were determined to stay on the court and miss the bus ride home. Aki Takiyama who went the ultimate distance before being defeated by her opponent. The opponent won the match by lobbing deep as it was difficult for ihe petite 'l'akiyama to return the balls. The second doubles team of Helene DeVries · and Cynthia Pautazis also remained tough before being defeated by the aggressive Colgate team. As well; Liz Melamed, who started in fourth singles, and Aki Takiyama teamed up to compete against the repeated second and third singles players at first doubles. Again attempts of victory were futile against the Division One team who competes all-year- round. Vassar was another match that was not indicative of the score. Because of the hurricane and inclement weather, the match was moved indoors · where nets were implanted on the basketball court. The surface was especially quick and it was most difficult to track the orange-c()lored ball upon the ground. Depending upon the court, your secondary color may have been either green or the ultimate clash, red. The artificial lighting was an additional disturbance. To put it mildly, the bright colors were not idealistic for tennis unless one were equipped with sunglasses. However, Union's team members voiced no complaints and proceeded to play their match and ultimately lose bringing their record to 0-4. The fast-paced ball proved too much for many of the netters, but was not harmful to the skilled first and second singles Aki Takiyama and Robin Leischman Who were vic- torious. Captain Meredith McCarty had ,a spectacular match by playing her own consistent game. . Unfor- tunately, her opponent had the same game and slowly went on to capture the win. Had Meredith's strength not been depleted by her cold, we all know undoubtedly what the outcome would have been. October 4th allowed the female tennis stars to encounter their fifth loss ag~inst top ranked Skidmore:: Again the match was held indoors and alternative scoring was used. . This provided for extremely short matches especially in the case of second singles player Valerie Sarwin who was on and off the court in about half an hour. A notable match was the 5th singles match. Amy Olt- chick, after leading 3-2 with a service break was ousted eventually 10-3 with many games reaching deuce. A highlight of the day was Aki's match against All- American Julie Thompson. Nationally-ranked Thompson really got a workout as Aki played smart tennis by con- tinually hitting baseline shots while sneaking in a drop to finish off the point. Thompson's running down of balls paid off as she just pulled off the match in a tie-breaker. The entire match was tremendous tennis and coach Means commented that; \It was the best Division III women's match she had ever seaen.\ Union tennis looks to improve their record when they compete against Hartwick, RPI and Siena along with postponed games against Middlebury and Oneonta where they hope that they will record a victory. Surprisingly enough, the team is still optimistic and would appreciate your support. - - Ill • IJ >- .c 0 :g D. sor a tc RP u wh; Car car frm Uni R dov the car dri• sco Il beg So I ShE yat giv Jm tail for Du hal I so~ c. Con mt ha· we she Jol rae SC1 '

--------------~~--------~--------~C=O~N~C~O~R~D~IENSIS=,~O~ct_o_be_r_l~7,-1_9_S5 ___________________________________ Pa~g~e--l9 SPORTS ~~ .. Union beats RPI for 5th straight year · Charlie Slotnik Dutchmen Keep The Shoes On Sports Five weeks into the college football season, the Union College Dutchmen are un- defeated with a record of 5-0. The Dutchmen are currently ranked 4th in the East and 5th in the nation. 246 yards passing. By TED CANNON Spotts Staff . In the 99th anniversary of New York State's oldest college football rivalry, Union ripped >- ..0 0 :g a. Gargiulo hit classmate, tight• end Mark Stachowiach, for a 12 yard scoring strike to put the Dutchmen up 28-6. In the final quarter, quar- / .·· • ;... . «~ Sophomore tight end Mark Stachowiak (14) beats R PI defender for a touchdown in Union's 35-6 victory on Saturday. · RPI by the score of 35-6: Union got on the board first when Senior fullback George Capozzi, who had 75·yards on 15 carries on the day, bulled in from 3 yards 'out, which put Union up 6-0. RPI was not just going to lie down for the Dutchmen. After the Union score, the Engineers came up with an impressive drive of their own to knot the score at 6 apiece. terback Jay Wood found sophomore split-end Jim LaFrance streaking down .the right sideline for a 44 yard scoring strike, to produce the 35-6 final. Defensively, the Dutchmen continued to be most im- pressive. After the RPI scoring drive, the .defense tightened up considerably. The defense came up with six turnovers by six different people. Senior safety Reinhardt Walker hauled in his fifth interception in five games. \I've been feeling very com· fortable back there,\ said Walker, \Being one of only two seniors in the defensive back- field, I try to provide leader· ship, and I think the b~st way to lead is by example.\ Joining Walker in the turnover parade were Tom Connolly, Tirn McLees, Darin Rathbun, Pat Wright, and Steve Alves, who all had interceptions, Tony Valente had a fumble recovery. Union's record is now 5 and n. The Dutchmen look to improve their impressive record thls week at Coast Guard. As long as the Dutchmen continue to win they will surely earn a post season playoff berth. However once they reach the playoffs the level of com· petition will increase; as only the top 16 teams in Division III are granted the priviledge of playing football on chilly Saturdays in late November and early December. The past two seasons, Union has won the Eastern Cham- pionships and then lost to Augustana College. Last year in the National Semi-finals and two years ago in' the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. +++ This .season Union seems to be as strong, if not stronger than in the past. However, even though the Dutchmen have scored 30 points or more in all but one game and have only given up two touchdowns on defense, the competition in the East is a.s strong. Here is a preview of the other top Eastern teams and what they have accomplished thus far this year. Ithaca College was the co- winner of the Lambert- Meadowlands Division III Cup with Union last year, but was not given apost-season bid. This year the Bombers have been able to shrug off that disap- £ pointment and are undefeated g with a 4-0 record. They are · ~ ranked 2nd in the East and 4th . \i: nationally. Ithaca uses a 3-4 pro- ······.~· ...... : g' style defense; which thus far this season has only given up three touchdowns. +++ Ithaca posted an impressive win over a tough Albany State team 15-10 in their season opener, and has not been challenged since then. I'm sure the Bombers would love a game with Union to avenge their 1983 playoff loss. . Carnegie-Mellon in Pitt- sburgh, Pa: has the distinction of beating a 1-AA team this year, as the Tartans upset Bucknell 21-IO earlier this season. The Tartans have a run oriented wing-T offense which has produced 28 touchdowns in 6 games. The Tartans, un- defeated (6-0), are 39-3 at home since head coach Chuck Klausing took over the helm in 1976. They play 8th ranked undefeated Washington and Jefferson at home ·this Satur- day. Carnegie-Mellon has not given up a touchdown in their last two games, and should be a contender in post-season play. They are th~ number one team in this weeks Lambert Eastern Football Poll. +-I-+ There was a mild upset in Division II: football la:':t Saturday as the number one team in the East, Merrhallf Marine lost to number 7 Get- tysburg 23-2. As a result, the Bullets have moved up to number 3 in the East and are now ranked 3rd nationally. Gettysburg's 5-2 defense has only given up one touchdown all season. The Bullet offense, a Delaware wing T, is led by Paul Martin who is the number two in ground gainer in Division III, and is averaging 150 yards a game. In the second period, Union began to assert its dominance. Sophomore tailback Darrell Shepherd plunged in from 1 yard out, early in the quarter to give Union a 13~ advantage. Just before the half, junior tailback Todd Walker dashed for a 28 yard T.D. to giv~ the Dutchmen a comfortable 21-6 halftime edge. In the third · quarter, sophomore quarterback Mike Union QB Mike Gargiulo (15) looks for daylight as Gerry Cam· panelli (63) and other Union offensive linemen hold off oncoming Offensively the B'ombers are a rushing oriented team and have scored ten touchdowns in their last two games. They are led by quarterback Mike Midnugh who has 244 yards rushing. on 66 carries and 4 touchdowns. Midnugh has 23 completions in 44 attempts for Gettysburg will not be seriously tested again until their final game against Franklin Marshall; F&M is currently undefeated. The Bullets have never been to the playoffs, and with a present 5-0 record, it looks as if they will make their first post season appearance. Crew .•. Continued from page 20 men's novice eights, after having only rowed for two weeks, also had a strong showing. John Ciovacco and John Wyatt rowed a fantastic race and won the men's double scull with a time of 18:52. The women's team also had a good day. The varsity women's rush. eight had a superb race and finished a close second behind a strong Albany oars club boat. The women's novice boat took third and fourth in their race. The women's crew showed a vast improvement and is looking sharp. Overall this fast growing organization is showing strong potential. With the new equipment and enthusiasm the team seems destined to a bright NCAA POLLS No. of First Place 1. Augustana (5·0) 2. Central of Iowa (5-0 3. Carnegie·Mellon (6-0) 4. Ithaca (4-0l 5. u·NION (5-0l 6. Lycoming (5·0) 7. Mt. Union (5·0) a. Wisconsin River Falls (4·0·1 l 9. (Tiel Denison (5-0l Gettysburg (5·0) Lambert Meadowlands Cup Division Ill Football Poll 1. Carnegie·Mellon 2. Ithaca College 3. Gettysburg 4. UNION 5. Mercy hurst 6. Hamilton 7. Franklin & Marshall 8. Washington & Jefferson 9. Amherst 10. Albany St. 1. Brandeis . 2. Cal. San Diego 3. Wheaton 4. N.c. Greensboro 5. R.l.T. 6. E Iizabeth town 7. Washington U. S.UNION 9. Drew 10. Clairmont Division iII Soccer Poll Votes Point 4 80 pts. 75 pts. 72 pts. 69 pts. 60 pts. 58 pts. 57 pts. ·56 pts. 44 pts. 4'4 pts. (6·0) (4-0) (5·0) (5·0) (5·0) (4·0) (5·0) (5·0) (4·0) (4-1) ( 11-0) ( 15·0) . (10-0-2) (11·2) (9-0-1) (11-1) ( 14·1) ( 6·1) (9-0-2) (10-1·1) future. The women's varsity eight are off to Boston next weekend to compete in the prestigious Head of the Charles Regatta. And if you are wondering about Augustana, yes they are Continued on page 18 ... Bonnie Gehling Dutchwomen's New Coach By PETER AGRICOLA Sports Staff There is a new face on the Union College coaching staff this fall. Bonnie Gehling is the new' Varsity Women's volleyball and women's basketball coach. Coach Gehling received her Wldergraduate degree from the University of Wisconsin at LaCrosse. She then received her master's degree from Ohio State University before coming to Union. Coach Gehling was at the. University of ·wisconsin at Steven's Point, wl:)ere she co;iched women's basketball along with being the athletic director and teaching professionally. Coach Gehling, who did not participate in college athletics herself, has high hopes for both the volleyball and basketball teams. This years volleyball team holds a record of 10 wins and 11 losses despite the loss ()£ captain Mary Forbes to an early season ankle injury. The team relies on the str11ngth ()f veterans Barbara Brady, Suzette Collier, Kim Mangin() and Shelly Finale to make up for the loss of Forbes. Gehling also boasts in her opinion \a very fine group of freshman who should be of great help in the future''. Coach Gehling holds hopes of a playoff year for the volleyball team. Her dedication to the improve~ent of the program seems evident and we wish her team the best of luck this season and for seasons to come. Bonnie Gehli.ng is this yettr's addition to Union's coaching staff.

,1 .• Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, October 17, 1985 PORTS ..... lose to No.] ranked Brandeis Booter Nip R.P.I. By MICHAEL GLASS Sports Staff The 19S5 Dutchmen's soccer team moved closer to an NCAA bid this past week as the booters faced the Wldefeated Brandeis Judges and the (2-6-1) RPI Engineer.s. In two great games, only one goal separated the scores of each match. second assist of the year). But that is all the booters would get in this match, and it didn't hold up against the offense of Brandeis. The Judges fought back with a shot from midfield tying . the score.. Then, what turned out to be the game winner, Brandeis Fullback D. Violette booted a goal past Trageser on a rebound. The .final score was Brandeis 2, Union 1. Upon reflecting on that close defeat, one Dutchman remarked that losing to the number one team in the country should not affect the team's standing in the state. Presently, the team is ranked second in the state. ..• ., \. ~.,. •' ..S~.' •• : .. ·' v;· ... , ,., . !. 'l.{ ~ -5 \ -'*'t*-\ ~' \' .. /f/!f/ ~ ,._.., ' ',:,_,.~ \0 \·.~~tk~\\\''\*'\M>i. ·m<\'~d. •:., •• !?. ·' -r;jg0V(~'ik=~'!a ·~ The first of these two games took place on Wednesday, October 9, at home against Brandeis. Ranked first in the nation, the Judges promised to be tough. With an estimated crowd of five hundred looking on, the Wldefeated Dutchmen took the field in hopes of an upset. The first one to respond to the pressure was Junior goalie Al Trageser. Stopping anything that came at him, Trageser shutout the Judges through the entire first half. But, he was not alone. Excellent defense on the part of co· Captain Grant Foreman and the rest of the squad made the goalie's job a lot easier. The booters were quick to attack the ball and thus prevent Brandeis, from generatiflg any offense. As the first half ended, the Dut- chmen were ahead, 1-o. This past Saturday, the Dutchmen took their 5-l record to R.P.I. But this time, the outcome would be in Union's favor. In a 3-2 decision, Dut- chmen goals were scored by Doug Wilk-his fifth and sixth of the season, and by Jay Davis. Although the Engineers are a tough team, for already this year they have faced some of the league's toughest com- petition, the close score can best be explained by the Dutchmen injuries. Out for the past two weeks has been Mid-fielder Adam Falk, Fullback Rob Molhar-with a back injury-and hurt in the second half of the R.P .I. game was Senior Grant Foreman. Fighting hard to get back into the action, Falk has begun conditioning once again, as has Mohlar. '\\- :~ i~ _ry. .,., •, ' .. - ~ ' . ~ ~\! ' \ ' j .... -'· ·-tt~ ·SOCCER SPLITS TWO Sophomore David Tewksberry (4} attempts to steal th.e ball away from Brandeis defender. The Dutchmen maintained their number two New York State ranking however. BIG GAMES Union's goal came at the 33:56 mark. Moments earlier, Dut- chmen Fullback Guy Claveloux received what seemed to be a chea.P shot from a Brandeis player. The incident drew a warning from the referee (a yellow card) and boos from the crowd. Only seconds after the ball was put into play, Steve Hartman responded with his sixth goal of the season, assisted by Dick Engdohl (his Looking at the rest of the season, Junior Bob Crandall noted: \For the rest of the schedule, we'll be the favorite S() the pressure is on us. These upcoming games will have more of a bearing on our ranking and position for post- season play.\ With such op- ponents as Colgate and Rochester ahead on the ~chedule, one can only hope Everyone will stay healthy. A reminder to all of the soccer fans, the next Union home game will be against Plattsburgh State, this Saturday. With Falk and Molhar healthy once again, tllis should prove to be a great game. Crew Takes Mayorrs Cup By PAUL EMSBO Sports Staff The crew team, entering its third season, has been con- stantly improving and is now at a serious competitive level. This has generated a tremen- dous enthusiasm in the club and among the student body. The appearance of some 125 students at this year's first organizational meeting testifies to this. One of the greatest disabilities of the crew team in 2 (j) rn .... 0 u 0:: >- c 0 .c - c: <i >- .c 0 ,._ 0 .c 0. the past has been eqUipment, but those days seem to be coming to an end. The club is eagerly awaiting the arrival of two new shells and a trailer. The dock is nearly completed on the Mohawk and the new ad- ditions to the boat house such as boat and oar racks have made it into a \real\ boat house. The active role of some of the experienced rowers in coaching the novices has also furthered interest in the crew club. The addition of Marjurie Dwoskin as the women's coach should prove ''(! --~- ~~ :\ ,# ~-:. to be a major contribution to the dub. She has already done a fine job in organiz.ing and perfecting the women into a eompetitive crew. The real proof of the crew team's progress was last Saturday at the seventh annual Head of the Mohawk Regatta. Themen'svarsityeight rowed a magnificent race rowing the 3.5 mile course in 16:37 and ~ecisively winning the Mayor's Cup, which was presented by Mayor Karen Johnson. The Continued on page 19 HEAD OF THE MOHAWK Schenectady 'Mayor Karen Johnson awarding the Union Men's Varsity Crew the Schenectady Mayor's Cup on Saturday, October 12, 1985. GARNET SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (5-0) Union 35 RPI6 MEN'S SOCCER (6-1) BraAdeis2 Union 3 Union 1 RP12 WOMEN'S SOCCER Union 4 Union 8 Vassar 0 RPI 0 WOMEN'S VOLLEYBALL (10-11} LeMoyne 15-5, 15-9 Union Union Elmire9·15, 15-3,15-1 at Oneonta Tourney, Union's record was 2-3. FIELD HOCKEY (7-4-1} Hartwick5 Williams6 Union 5 Union 4 COT) Union o RPI 0 WOMEN'S TENNIS (3-5) Williams9 Union6 Union 0 RPI3 -------DU'TCHMEN SPORTSWEEK-------f October 17 - October 23 Friday 10/18 womer:1's Soccer vs. Plattsburgh 3:30 6:00 Field Hockey vs. Russell Sage Saturday 10/19 Rugby vs. Syracuse Football at Coast Guard Soccer vs Plattsburgh JV Socc~r at Berkshire Fied Hockey vs Potsdam Men's X -cat Middlebury Women-rs X-C at Mid<llebury Volleyball at Vassar Tourney 1:00 1:30 2:00 3:30 4:00 1:00 1:00 Monday 10/21 JV Football at HVCC 7:30 Tuesday 10/22 Women's Soccer at Skidmore Volleyball vs. Russell Sage, Albany 3:30 7:00 W. Soccer Wins Two By MARY SOLEY and COLLEEN DUNDON Sports Staff The Women's Soccer tEam won both their gamesthis week, snapping a 3 game losing streak. The lady bo<lters broke their losing streak by defeating Vassar last Wednesday 4..0. The whole team played tetrific and dominated the game. 'lvvo goals were scored by Beth Wright. Lynn Chabot and Erin Sheehan each had one. The teal.Jl, still in high spirits from l2st Wed- nesday's shutout, went to Troy on Saturday to play H.P.I. The winning streak of 1 was aot broken, as the Dutchwomen prevailed. The Dutcbwomen got off to a slow start, and only had a mere 1·0 lead at the half. The goal came at 23:20 when Lisa Rathbun headed in Deb Bodin's perfectly placed corner kick. In the second half Freshman Erin Sheehan scored within the first three minutes to start the Union scoring maching. Sophomore Sue Long looked strong as she scored two goals, one off a cross by Colleen Dundon. Also scoring twice for her second con- secutive game was Beth Wright. With the lead 'building, coach Morris01;1 was able to put goalie Sarah Shaw on the front line. Positions were altered but Union still dominated the play. Tallying still more points for the Lady Booters were Clarissa McFarlan ancl Deb Hodin. The scoreboard read 8-0 at the end of the contest as the Dutchwomen Booters registered their 2nd consecutive shutout. The women's record now stands at 4-5. They will be home tomorrow against Plattsburgh at 3:30 on Garis Field. ,_ (j) .c ::> .... c.!) (j) > co 0 >- .0 0 - 0 .c a.

lege 1877 . • Bulk Rate U.S. Postage Paid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXV No .. s Schenectady, New York October 24, 1985 ,_ (I) .0 :::l ,_ (,!) (I) > rtl 0 >- .0 0 - 0 .c c. ·:...······ .• Student Forum President Chris Siler, encourages stoaent input on the Forum. ·l,mplications Considered ... Forum Programs Examined By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff The Student Forum is Union's principal form of student government. The main responsibilities of the Forum include the appointments for all college and student com- mittees, the allocations of funds for all student activities, and the overseeing of all student activities and committees. The Forum consists of student representatives from all classes. Its members for the 1985-86 academic year are as follows: President, Chris Siler '86; Vice President of Administration, Steve Moss '87; intellectual life-nothing stuffy, but interesting and in- formative.'' Contrary to popular belief, the Forum has no faculty or adrninistrati ve advisors, although Mrs. Lorraine Marra, Coordinator of Student Activities, greatly assists the Forum. Concluded Siler,\ \Without Mrs. Marra, things would fall apart.\ Purchasing Age to Change Vice President of Finance, Beth Bern ell '86; Academic Affairs Council Representative, Kathy Keaveney '86; Greek representatives Robin Gross '86 and Pat Vernich '86; Student Trustees Andrew George '86 and Julie Mountain '87; Class representatives Maureen Coleman (Senior Class President) ; Tod Dimmick (Senior Class Treasurer); Stanley Ferrence (Senior Class Vice President), '86; Mickey Bradley (Junior Vice President); Stephen Lipsky (Junior Class President); Kyle Siegel (Junior Class Treasurer); Richard Allen (Sophomore Class President); Gardner Bolster (Sophomore Class Vice President); Aaron Carrel (Sophomore Class Treasurer) ; and two freshmen representatives to be elected during the third week of Winter term. Chris Siler, Student Forum President, explained that the Forum now has task forces investigating the Dorm Councils, trying to make them a more cohesi:ve group, and a group investigating an off- campus association for Union students. Siler indicated that, ideally, the Forum would like to establish a lounge for corn- Andrew George, Senior Campus Trustee, described the upcoming Phi Beta Kappa discussion groups, sponsored in part by the Student Forum. The first will be held October 30 and the topic is \What the U.S. should attempt in the arms negotiation talks with the Soviets\. Panelists include Professor Clifford Brown (Political Science), Professor Charles Gati (Political Science), Professor William Martin (Chemistry), and Professor J. Richard Shanebrook (Mechanical Engineering). By GREG FAY Staff After December 1, 1985, the giving or selling of alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years old will be illegal in New York State. At the start of the average academic year at Union, 25 percent of the students, at most, would be over 21. By spring term, at most 33 percent of Union students would reach this age. The rise of the minimum drinking age will obviously affect a large portion of Union students. The Student Affairs Council realizes this and has formed the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee to study the im- plications of the new law for Union students. The Com- mittee, which met fot the first time last Wednesday, October 16, will be recommending policy changes pertaining to alcohol use, and also will be examining all aspects of extra-curricular activities on the campus, throughout the coming months. The committee anticipates having recommendations formulated by mid-November. At that time, it will present its recommendations to the Student Affairs Council. The Council will present them to the Student Forwn, which will in turn vote on them and present recommendations to President Morris and his staff of policy makers. Ultimately, the policy decision rests in the hands of President Morris. During the first meeting, the Committee discussed exactly what the new law states and the extent of the College's liabiiity in cases where students violate the law. Dean Massa, a com- mittee member; pointed to one case in_particular, Bradshaw v. Rawllng!J (1979), Which might indicate the extent of Union's liability pertaining to students' violation of the new law, although the decision has not been tested in New York State. In this case, a student got drunk at a sophomore class picnic where free beer was served. He drove his car and caused his friend's injury in ~m Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa accident. A federal court ruled that the driver and the college were liable, though the decision was overturned later. Since the legal implications are many and confusing, the Committee will be consulting legal counsel before malting recom- mendations. Said Dean Massa, \1 don't think that any institution should approach a policy decision based on a fear of what may happen to it or its students should the law be broken; I think we should approach it rather from the other end- what can we do to be respon- sible . . . to lessen the chance that a terrible accident may occur.\ Committee members include Intrafrate.rnity Colincil President Pat Vernich, Panhellenic Society .President Robin Gross, Pr9fessor Kimmo Rosenthal, Professor Barbara Markeiwicz, Dean of Residence Life David Wood, Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa, Assistant Director of Security and Safety Pierce Fitzgerald, Scott Danziger '88, Craig Blum '86, and Dawn Chupay '87. The Committee welcomes input from the College com- munity and has organized an open forum for this purpose, to be held on Wednesday, October 30, at 10 a.m. in the Social Sciences building 1 room 115. It also encourages any student who wishes to make recom- mendations to any of the Committee members. muting and off-campus students. However, she acknowledged that finding space for such a lounge would be a problem at the present time. Siler added that a member of the Student Forum will be looking into more student- faculty activities this year. She stated, \The Student Forum would like to bring back the Gretchen contemplates the coming of fall on Union campus. The second presentation will be held on November 6 and is titled, \Should social concerns influence portfolio management?\ Panelists in- clude Professor Bradley Lewis (Economics), Professor Stephen Lyng (Sociology), and a member of the business community. George stressed, \The Student Forum would like to spur an intellectual at- mosphere outside of the classroom.\ Committee on Committees The Committee on Com- mittees (CoC) is one of the subdivisions of the Student Continued on page 3 Gridders Dominate Again! -page20- See Special Homecoming Section

Page2 ... •Ill .0 :I L ~ :2 ·> '. 10 ·Q >- .0 0 0 .s:: ·c. CONCORDIENSJS, Oatoher 24, 1985 The Roots of Anti-Semitism .•• Berk Publishes Book . A Union professor widely known for his expertise on the Soviet Union and on the Middle East has a new book in print . Titled Year of Crisis, Year of Hope: Russian Jewry and the Pogroms of 1881-1882, the book; by Professor ef History Stephen Berk, sheds light on current as well as past Russian and Soviet attitudes toward ethnic minorities. the work provides a com- prehensive overview of Russian Jewry on the eve of the violence that · saw towns laid waste; women and children raped and dismembered, and shops and synagogues torched. With massive flight to America and Palestine, one response to these events, the pogroms of 1881-82 were a turning point in the modern' history of the Jewish people. Lisa Torterella and Mira Keller relax after their mid-term exams. \I chose.the topic of the 1881- 82 pogroms because they had such an enormeus impact upon the history of the U.S. and Israel,\ Berk says. \The pogroms swept through Russia, overturning some real gains the Jews were making in equality and parity of opportunity. These waves of murder, rape and destruction of property marked the beginning of the end for East European Jewish life-but they aided the growth process of two new communities: the large and prosperous American Jewish community, and Jewish settlements in Palestine.'' Because the beok calls on testimony from those. who lived through the period, it holds particular interest for social sc_ientists, . psychologists, psychiatrists as well ~s historians and scholars, all of whom will benefit from the social implications of Berk's study. College Receives Grants By DAVE GULLIVER Staff Rarety does an issue of Concordiensis pass by without an announcement of new grants and funds donated to Union. Recently, the College was awarded $50,000 by the Surdna Foundation for the Presidential Discretionary Fund, J.M. McDonald Foundation donated $30,000 for computer equip- ment, and the Chr-istian A. Johnson Endeavor Fund added $25,000 to its endowed scholarship fund. Thinking of the many an- nouncements published, however, one might wonder about this seemingly endless stream of resources. In this day it is difficult to believe that there is such an amount of money being given away. Obviously, the matter of grants and funding is not quite as simple as it appears. According to Robert Rasmussen, Vice President for College Resources, there are \literally thousands of charitable organizations\ but the competition for funds is fierce. He described the amount of competition by saying, \One foundation averages a request for funds every twenty minutes every day of the year. Our job is to look for a corrununity of in- terests between a foundation and the college and then to make our needs known as clearly and directly as possible.\ well enough known and has a good reputation that causes many foundations to seek us out. If they are less familiar with us we meet with them and get better acquainted and talk about he College ·in its en- tirety-academics, student body, admissions, and finance picture. Even if we do not receive a grant for this project, this meeting helps us in the future. After such a meeting, our specificlifideas for funding are no surprise to the foun- dation.\ At that point in time, the . foundation president normally will want to meet the College president, and here again is part of Union's strength, for President Morris is \honest and has great personal integrity-hi is dedicated to College,\ ac- cording to Rasmussen. This dedication makes a foundation more likely to approve a Union proposal, for they can see the progress the school has made and can expect to continue with funding. When personal meetings are concluded, the staffs of the College resources and the foundation take over. The College Resources office writes a specific, detailed proposal of what Union needs and why, and . the proposal is formally sub- mitted from president to president and then the foun- dation staff will scrutinize the request closely. A final site visit may then occur to finalize the review and determine the decision. The painstaking procedure is crucial to success. ''Some colleges or institutions will go apply for money which is not useful to them just for the sake of getting money, which could hurt any chances they have. Many fow1dations are in contact with each other and all will look at a college's history of grant use.\ Each success in acquiring funding and using it well is a plus; a misuse of funds can be a death sentence for future grant opportunities. The stewardship process, therefore, is equally important. Once funding is approved, the checks mailed, and a project begun, the foundation is naturally eager to see the results of its outlay. Often the funding approval is dependent on future success, much like a student's scholarship. A project will be discontinued if a college misuses funds or misrepresents its objective in the proposal. For this reason, Union takes special care in informing its benefactors of a project's progress. In addition to required reports and normal com- munication, ''If we are traveling in an area, we will take time out to make a visit to a foundation's offices and leave word of our results,\ said Rasmussen. This idea of con- tact and spreading the word of success is instrumental in continued success with other foundations . The major question is, of course, why are these sums of money being given out? Often, such as in the case of Andrew Carnegie, it is given away due to an individual's desire. In today' s system, of course, such donations are beneficial as tax deductions and have that ap- peal. All donations, however, have a purpose. Confulued on page 3 The backlash by the Russian populace, according to :Serk, resulted, ironically, from some tentative government reforms that had been initiated over the previous two decades. \The causes of that particular wave of anti-8emitism,\ Berk explains, \are complex: In some ways, they resulted directly from government reforms that allowed Jews to move about more freely than in the past and allowed them to conduct a wider range of economic transactions. The increasing prosperity and visibility of a small number of Jews (the great majority were poor) combined with traditional mistrust of their religious practices gave a poverty- stricken populace a focus for their hatred. \Then too, the government itself took an ambivalent stand once the pogroms started. Officials were nervous about the violence, but privately condoned it-and certainly took no outward steps to stop it.\ Drawing on Russian, Yiddish, Hebrew and German Berk, who holds a Ph.D. from Columbia University, a cer- tificate from Columbia's Russian Institute, and an M.A. from the University of Chicago, Bennington Coliege and the State University of New York at Albany. For two years he wrote and produced \Communist Insight,\ a weekly radio analysis of developments taking place in the Communist world that appeared on the General Electric Radio Network. He has travelled extensively in the Soviet Union, Israel, Poland and Egypt. Year of Crisis, Year of Hope was published by Greenwood Press of Westport, Conn., in hardbound edition. Published in September, its price is $39.95. For copies of the book, contact Greenwood at 88 Post Road West, P.O. Box 5007, Westport 06881. Or phone (203) 226-3571. Do you recognize this location on Union's campus? Foundations are charitable org-anizations formed for the purpose of philanthropy and often as a tax deduction for a corporation as well. The money is maintained from corporation profits or by wise investments of original money by foundation staffs. For this reason, the foundations are incorporated and have a legal charter which includes a statement of pur- pose. This statement may be a broad purpose, such as to aid in higher learning, or as specific as determining a particular field and geographic location. What's Up Around Campus Many of the foundations and their objectives are listed and published at the Foundation Center, a library organization located in New York City and Washington, D.C. Many more, however, are continuously being formed or changing their purpose, and the college resources staff is constantly researching opportunities. \Often almnni will keep us informed of such changes,\ said Mrs. Patricia Bush. Once a foundation with particular interests has been found, Union first examines its needs to see if their interests coincide. If yes, the process of a funding proposal begins, and in this process lies Union's ex- traordinary success. \Many proposals (by other interested parties) are poorly written or inappropriate and are im- mediately ruled out. We do our homework and make sure that they· (the foundation) are in- terested in our ideas.\ Rasmussen further detailed Union's approach, \Union is Writers' Conference Diane Duffy, '86, and David Beal, '86 are the two students invited to attend the Conference on Peer Tutoring in Writing, to be held at Bucknell University (Lewisburg, Pa.) on October 25- 27. Also attending will be Alan· Nelson and Sandra Longley, directors of The Writing Center. ·The conference, titled ·'Building a Community of Writers,\ will be the second of annual meetings, last year held at Brown University. Duffy and Heal are in their second year as student tutors in The Writing Center at Union, which opened last year and works with any students or faculty on class papers and othe1· writing. It is located on the second floor of Old Chapel. New York 'I;rip William G. Burns, vice chairman and chief financial officer of the NYNEX Cor· poration, will give a free lecture on \Divestiture Reviewed- What has been the Effect?\ at 3:45 p.m. Thursday, Oct. 24. Burns, a 1954 graduate of Union College, will speak in Bailey Hall at Union. Burns formerly held the same positions with New York Telephone Company, before the January, 1984 court-decreed divestiture took place. He worked for the Bell Telephone system for 30 years. The talk is sponsored by the Institute of Administration and Management at Uaion, and is one of a series of administrative and engineering · systems colloquia given each year by members of the business community and university faculty on topics of general interest to present and future business leaders. On Thursday, Oct. 31, · Dr. Alden Haffner, vice chancellor for research, graduate studies and professional programs of the State University of New York will speak on \America's New Health Care Agenda- Implications and Public Policy Refor.mation.'' Kappa Sigma . . , 'I'he Delta-'rau Chapter of ·· Kappa Sigma Fraternity at Union has been named as one of the Fraternity's eleven Scholarship Award winners for the 1985 academic year. The award was presented at the Kappa Sigma 55th Biennial Grand Conclave Awards Ceremony on July 26, 1985 at the Peabody Hotel in Memphis, Tennessee. The award recognized the Chapter for consistently ranking above the all-mens, all- fraternity average at Union. The outstanding performance of the Chapter is consistent with Kappa Sigma Fraternity's high priority for scholastic development. The Chapter was chosen from a field of 200 to win the highly coveted award. Lewis to Speak Bernard Lewis, a long:-term member of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, will present this year's Anwar S~dat Memorial Peace Lecture at 8 p~m. tonight in Memorial Chapel. He is currently the Cleveland E. Dodge Professor of Near Eastern Studies at Princetoh. Lewis, one of this country's most distinguished Middle East scholars, has had a long career as diplomat and scholar. Born in London, he received his doctorate from the University of London and diplomas from the University of London and the University of Paris. Having served in the British army, he . was attached to the foreign office from 1941-1945, and published the Handbook of Diplomatic and Political Arabic in 1947. other published books include The Jews of Islam, The Muslim Discovery . of Europe, Islam in History, The Middle East and the West, and (as co- editor) The Cambridge History of Islam and The Encylopaedia .of Islam. The Anwar Sadat lecture series, now in its fifth year, is sponsored . by the History Department with support from .Union alumnus Fredric Miller, president of the engineering finn Techno, Inc., in New Jersey. ~ . r . DE g< PI tl1 in S1 jt OJ b L c s rl s fi s b s t c t t I 1

~ . r . CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page3 Social Life Expands By NICK PICCIRILLO Contributor With the renovation of Car- negie Hall, Union College said good-bye to the Dutch . Hollow Pub. However, the tradition of the Pub has not been forgotten in the hearts of many students. Steve Lipsky, Student Forum junior representative, is organizing· an alternative on behalf of Student Forum. Lipsky first brought his Pub Club Idea to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities and has since received the sponsorship of the Student Forum which will finance the venture, and Food Service, which supplies the beverages. time. A full bar has been established where drinks and snacks may be purchased. Tables are available if one wants to sit and talk in addition to a dance floor for those in a more energetic mood. Future plans for the Club include not only making it a regular event, but also, in cooperation with the Concert Coml)littee, having campus bands play. The Club will be open on Tuesday, October 29, as part of the fund-raising effort for the Dutchmen Basketball team. With the sponsorship of the Student Forum and with the cooperation of Food Service, the only obstacle to the Club's success is student involvement. As Lipsky stated, \What we (the Student Forum) are basically trying to do is bring the Pub back with added extra attractions. We welcome any suggestions from the student body, but what we need most now is participation. Many returning Union students may notice some things that are missing this year. The most obvious is the Dutch Hollow Pub. While the Pub cannot be replaced, the Pub Club is attempting to bring an evening \hang out\ back. Its success depends on student involvement. Plan to attend the next opening on October 29. -Any. comments ar suggestions can be brought to the attention of Steve Lipsky or to Mrs. Marra in Student Activities. Student Forum Junior Representative Steve Lipsky, organized the Pub Club. The idea ·of the Pub Club is still ip its preliminary stages. It has,. however, been open twice and the limited tilrnout has been attributed, by organizers, to a lack of awareness of the new P11b's existence. Opening night for the Pub Club occured · on Oct{)ber 12 in the Old Chapel,' where it will remain. Drinks and snacks were served, and a D.J. was on hand to encourage dancing. Campus Leadership Reviewed Continued from page 1 . . Forum. The CoC's main The members of the CoC the construction that is oc- ~ours a ~eek of. offtc~ hours. It responsibilities include making include Steve Moss '87, Vice curring on campus. It's tough to IS durmg thts time th~t sure that student clubs rW1 President of Administration keep the students unified- treasurers of clubs can ?btam according to their constitutions· and chairperson of the com- that's why we're making these vouche_rs from us. ~astcally, appointing student members 0 £ mittee; Class representatives dismissal policies; we want the Fmance Commtttee has student-faculty-administrative Tod Dimmick '86, Mickey students who will do a good control over ~,U the funds for The Club provides a possible alternative to fraternity parties and will accommodate overflow frQm the Skeller, which has a capacity of 106-115 people. Lipsky describes the new pub as a place with a relaxed at- mosphere where the emphasis is socializing and having a good committees during Spring Bradley '87, Aaron Carrel '88, job.\ student clubs. term; and helping new clubs to and one other student from the form. Each stlldent campus at large. organization is required to Committees under the su~mit a Club status report, a jurisdiction of the CoC include bnef SUlll!nary of all activities, the Academic Affairs Council, by the sixth week of every term, Academic Computing Sub- and these reports are reviewed council, Admissions Liason by the CoC. Committee, Concert Com- r -------=------------------. mittee, Student Conduct Grants · I Committee, Film Committee, · • • • Finance Committee, Human Continued from page 2 can see the current effects of Subjects Committee, Research \Venture Capital\ grants that idea on our liberal arts and Grants Subco•mcil, Plan- support a risky e},::perimental program and can only imagine ning and Prioriti-.::::, Social project. Several years ago, what may occur in future years. Committee, Rathskellar Board, Ford Motor Corwration funded The J.M. McDonald Foundation Student Affairs Council, a nationwide project to examine grant is for the development Speakers Forum, Sub- 'the effects of an accelerated and constr.uction of three committee on the Standing of PhD program. That idea was a Mobile Computer Display Units Students, Traffic and Pet Court, failure, but it had successful for use in liberal arts. Minerva Committee, and the side effects, such as the President John Morris said, Honorary Degree Committee. popularization of independent \These funds will allow us to One of the new policies that majors and self-designed extend our current goal of the CoC is formulating involves research projects. enabling every student to four student committees- In its third summer at Union become technologically Concert Committee, Film is the \Expanded Horizons\ literate.\ It is obvious how this Committee, Social Committee, project, fro:m General Electric. compliments the original Sloan and Speakers Forum. It sponsors summer research Foundation grant, and is yet Previously, the CoC would between a Union Student another way Union makes its appoint approximately fifteen (between junior and senior donated fm1ds work to their students to each of the com- year) and a faculty member greatest advantage. mittees during spring term. The here and at a research The main goal of grants is to CoC foW1d that some students university. The purpose is to start an institution in a par- who were appointed lost in- encourage talented un- ticular direction and then let the terest e>Ver the swnmer or · dergraduates to continue college continue the process. forgot about their respon- gradllate work at the doctoral With that purpose in mind sibilities. level instead of stepping comes the concept of Under the new policy, the CoC directly into industry, because \Challenge Grant.\ A foun- will appoint two chairpersons to General Electric foresees a dation may offer a donation of a each of the above committees shortage of qualified in- certain amount of money, during spring term. The CoC, in structors. Such a project provided that the college can cooperation with the chair- benefits both the student and raise another sum of money to persons will then appoint three the company. match the donation. The recent additional members to each A few years ago, the Alfred P. Surdna Foundation grant may committee. The five students of Sloan Foundation was in- be used as part of matching each committee will be known terested in the idea of in- funds to help constmct the as the Executive Board of the tegrating technology into College Center. In thil'! manner, Committee. During the fall liberal arts, and Union was one the organization can sponsor an term, new students will be- of ten colleges nationwide idea without exposing itself to allowed to join, and at the end of selected. for this project. Union large risks. the term, the most active .111••••••••••••••••••••- students will be appointed to the committee. This new policy Union students, Dan Vaughn, '88, and Tommy Muzzonigro, '88, finish up their biology experiment. facilitates freshman in- volvement with the conunittees during their first term at Union. Another policy that the CoC is initiating is the so-called Dismissal Policy. This policy will affect the Film Committee, Concert Committee, Social Committee, and Speakers Forwn. Any member of any of these committees who is not fulfilling his or her respon- sibilities could be dismissed from the committee, and could be barred from applying to one of these committees for one year after his or her dismissal. The CoC is considering_ making a similar policy to affect student members of student- faculty-administrative com- mittees as well. Steve Moss '87, chairperson of the CoC, commented, \The CoC is con~~r!led ~~th the effects of Finance Committee The Finance Committee, another subdivision of the .. - Student Forum, oversees ex- penditures for all student ac- tivities, and during spring term budgets for the next fiscal year. Members of the Finance Committee include Beth Bernell '86, Vice President of Finance · and chairperson of the com- mittee; Student Forwn class representatives Stanley Ferrence '86, Stephen Lipsky '87, Richard Allen '88; and three students selected by the Coer- David Hanafin '86, Randy Monteleone '88, and Joy Cohen '88. \We wish that students would come to our meetings, we're looking for new ideas.\ A new policy formulated by the Finance Committee this tenn was the Capital Reserve Account. This policy established a separate account just for purchasing Capital equipment (equipment that lasts a lifetime, costs over $200, and is intended for student use). Previously, any purchase of Capital equipment was built into the club's budget. Bernell stated, \Essentially this is putting a safety device on Capital equipment-this is a better way of protecting our investments.\ Under the newly established policy, clubs send a request to the Finance Com- mittee, which then must be approved by the Student Forum before the purchase can be made. Other business that the Finance Committee has un- dertaken during fall term in- cludes financing two new clubs, Coffeehouse and Gospel Ensemble, and assisting the Union College Jazz Ensemble with the purchase of a new drum set. New clubs have to be approved by the CoC before they can get funding from the Finance Committee. The Finance Committee also assists clubs in fundraising activities. The Idol, the College lite~ary magazine, has been sellmg . coffee and donuts in front . of Schaffer Library, and the Fmance Committee plans to award them . matching funds. Dave Hanafin '86, explained another aspect of the Finance Committee. \Each member of the Finance Committee has two Student Affairs Council The Student Affairs Council (SAC) is another main com- mittee of the Forwn. This cormnittee consists of members of the Administration, faculty, and students. Committee members include Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students; Willard Roth, Associate Dean of . Undergraduate Studies and Professor of Biology; Professor Kimmo Rosenthal (Mathematics), Chainnan of the committee; Professor Hilary Tann (Arts); and Student Forum Class representatives Maureen Coleman '86, Kyle Siegel '87, and Gardner Bolster '88; and two students from the College .community, Reza Mozayeni '87 and Jill Tomack '88. The main functions of the SAC include reviewing policies and making recommendations for Student Housing, Dining Ser- vices, Health Services, Coun- seling Services, Student Center, and Career Counseling and Placement; and formulating and reviewing policies con-· cerning Greek life, student activities, and student conduct. Under the SAC, two new committees have been formed. Each of the conunittees are composed of students, faculty and members of the Administration. These com- mittees are the Alcohol Use- Student Life Committee, which will review the legal im- plicalions the new 21 year old alcohol purchase age will have as well as examine the ex- tracurricular life on campus; and the Residence Life Com- mittee, which will review all aspects of residence life at Union and make recom- mendations on such issues as the housing lottery. The SAC has recently met with Dave Wood, Associate Dean of Residence Life, and Pierce Fitzgerald, Assistant Director of Security and Safety, to consider Campus Security. The Council previously en- tertained Janet Gray, Director of Food Service, who addressed the issue of Food Services thiS term and the effects campus construdion has had on the overall quality of campus dining. Siler added, \I don't think that people are really aware of what the Forwn can do. We wish that students would come to our meetings-we're looking for new ideas. Anyone can present a propsal to the Student Forum.\

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS, October 24~ 1985 LOANS ARRANGED: Debt consolidation business, exp.ansion, mortgages, venture capital, aircraft and marine financing, farm and agricultural, trucking, theatrical productions .. stage - screen - TV video, educational, inventions, franchises, mining,oil drllling, casino and entertainment palaces, hotels, ,motels, r~nches, or for any sound purpose in- cluding ar·bitrage lending and Barter trading. $1 Billion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs, or if in a hurry call 203-848-8552. BATES BUSINESS CONSULTANTS 123 Maple-Ave., P.O. Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address 11 BATFI N'' ' We are .the only money service in the world (that we know of) that serves borrowers 24 hours per day (8 p.m.- 9 a.m. recorded service) 365 days a year. If you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or call Bates/Sorrentino for details. Join Us At Coffee House Friday, Nov. 1 st 9:00p.m. Live Entertainment Hot Rum & Cider, Coffee, Desserts. Lower Hale House Lounge Mozart § ~ Festival 1 ~ Orchestra t § Tickets § § available in § Student § Activities ~ office. § Third Floor § Old Chapel § §<b>·Q><Q><b><Q><Q>•Q->.q.<Q><Q>«:§ Yearbook Staff Meeting .. 8.Renani!Jana Hair Designs UNION. COLLEGE STUDENTS ·r~·-------~-- --·-------- - .... ~ ------ -:m-, ~ $10 Off Sculptured : I . . 0 . 1 I I Na1 :s I -1-Reg. $35.00 NOW $25.00 I l--------------------~-~---~ WITH THIS COUPON VALID THROUGH NOV. 15 MON.-FRI. 9-9 372 0007 519 UNION ST. SAT. 9-6 • · · . . SCH'DY T~~E 1\lRRP. VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 -for all interested in working on 1986 book. -photographers -layout, etc. HOW FAR WILL YOUR TALENT TAKE YOU? Tuesday. Oct. 29th 4:00p.m. Mtg. RmB 3rd Floor Old Chapel Apply for the TIME College Achievement Awards and find $1,000-$5,000 and profiled in a special promotional section out. TIME Magazine is searching for 100 college juniors who in TIME. Eighty fmalists will receive certificates of merit. All have distinguished themselves by their excellence; in academ- 100 students will be given first consideration for internships ics and, more importantly, exceptional achievement outside with participating corporations, some of which are listed the classroom. 0 The top twenty winners will be awarded below. 0 Details at your dean's office or calll-800-523-5948. ' Time Inc. • The American Express Travel Reiated Services Company, Inc. • Ford Division • U.S. Navy Officer Program TIME. · The College Achievement Awards

CONCORDIENSIS,- October 24, 1985 Do}'Ollllave tbe right stuff? Get your career off to a flying start. Become a mer. There are no on-campus drills. Plus, you yourself amongst the best and start off making Marine aviator.· If you're a college freshman, . receive $100 a month during the school year. from $17,000 to $23,000 a sophomore or junior, you could qualify for our Seniors can qualify for the graduate Officer year. See if you measure up. undergraduate Officer COmmissioning Pro- Commissioning PFogram and attend training Check out the Marine Corps ~~~ gram and be guaranteed flight school after grad- after graduation. Officer Commissioning ~ uation. All training is conducted during the sum- This is an excellent opportunity to prove Programs. - ,detJIIe?/ J..1f Ill be YIHI' ''JPfat $a/n, 11 15% Discount with Haircut I Design Perms Colour Facials Nail Lengthening Waxing Make-Up Pedicure Our desi.gners have been trained by Union ID card and 10% Discount with Ad Offer expires Oct. 31 SASSOON of London and JINGLES~ N. y .C. Gooding Skin Systems 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1.6. ... .., UNION BEVERAGE CORP. 1701 UNION STREET (mxt To McDonalds) HOURS: MON. thru. SAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. · Y2 KEG BUSCH $27.50 3 -82-5958 We,.....- the right to limit quantlt&... Not re..,-n•lb .. for typographh:ol ernn. V2 KEG BUD $33.00 . OPEN FOR BUSINESS Watch For Ou' G'and Opening Coming Soonl HEIIIEKEN LIGHT OR DARK PIELS EXPORT 5.39c- 13.99. BUD EXPORTS 10.39eu. DRAFT BEER · Halv\ & Quarters Available. Alao lcel Plenty of Free Parking MILLER EXPORTS . 9.99c ... PageS

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 \ ' FEATURES To Be ,Or N ott 'To Be ••• By KIMBERLYHANCOCK Staff The Nott .Memorial has grown to become much more than a historic architectural landmark that Gatesmen point out on tours. The Nott Memorial is a symbol of longstanding traditions and values en- compassed within the in- stitution of Union College. Presently the Nott stands as a symbol of Union, but this symbol is in danger of crum- bling, taking with it the memories of hopes and cfreams of thousands who have passed through before ourselves. In order to fully realize the significance of this monument and its importance to the college and to thoseuwithin it, one must look at the Nott's history. Union's most recognizable symbol, the Nott.Memorial, was a long time in the making, but is quickly crumbling in front of~us. The original Union College consisted of one solitary building which was then referred to as \Stone College\. This building housed the The Skellar- Time Blues By BOWIE PODOLSKY Contributor Yet anotherweekendat Union has passed by this fall term. The usual barrage of fraternity parties, \Toga runs\ and SUNY parties seemed also passe. So my friends and I decided to do something radical, something crazy. Searching for good at- mosphere, good drink, and a cozy college ambience, we frequented the Pub and Skellar. Due to the much needed reconstruction of Carnegie Hall, our mixed drink watering hole has been relocated to the Old Chapel. Did you know that? Well, after discovering this fact, I spent some time $aturday night at the \new\ Pub. I must give the Student Forum credit in attempting to make the Pub as amiable as it used to be. Yet, I was disappointed to find a handful of students, watered- down drinks, and nary a soul dancing. Accepting this grim reality, myfriendsandi decidedto check out the ever-reliable Skellar. That timeless institution of . spilled beer, insufficient seating, and imperceptible music. But the Skellar has been home for the congregation of good friends and good con- versation. (Even if you did have to shout to your neighbor, just a foot away.) It was a place you could always count on for a beer and a friend. For the Skellar had its own personality and temperament, serving to late hours, with its door always open and that particular song you wanted to hear on the juke box. The now extinct pitchers were always flowing and the flipped cup always seemed to end up in front of you. Do I sound as if I'm reminiscing of days gone past? Well I am. I, as many others, feel the betrayal of the powers that be. For now, the doors of the Skellar are not always open and the screeching music of the juke box is all but silenced. It was a crime to see the Skellar almost empty at midnight, last Saturday night, and last call, only a few minutes later. As I sat there finishing my beer and closing the Skellar, I seriously wondered what happened to my old friend. What happened to Union's own hangout? The demise of the Skellar is due to severed relationships. Relationships between the students and the Skellar, the Skellar and the administration, and the administration and students. Apathy among Union students has reached epidemic proportions. We simply have not taken an interest in revitalizing the Skellar. Yielding to insurance company pressures and the fear of law suits, the administration has actively sought to curtail this relationship. Early closing hours and the conspicuous lack of pitchers are indicative of this trend. And more pathetic is the student-administration relat- ionship. StUdent advocacy, or the little that exists, is con- ducted by a few dedicated, caring students whom I ap- plaud. As for the rest of us, we sit back with our beer, and just don't give a damn. The ad- ministration has a moral obligation to the students to provide for the existence of such establishments as the Skellar. Similarly, the students have an obligation to maintain such facilities. Until both parties realize this, the closing times will get earlier and earlier and the echoes of songs like \American Pie\ will become fainter and fainter. 'Amnesty' Gets Started By CHRISTINE E. BONG Contributor On Tuesday, October 1, Amnesty International held its first meeting at 7:30 p.m. The rather informal gathering in the Old Chapel conference room proved to be a very informative affair. Senior David Hanifin, this year's president of the organization, along with the vice-president Diana Praus, explained the purpose and goals of Amnesty International. The main purpose of Union's Amnesty International is to \make students on campus aware\ ·of the torture and en- croachment upon the human rights of \Prisoners of Con- science.\ In order to be con- sidered by the group as a Prisoner of Conscience, one must not advocate violence and not be held in American territory. The reason for these limits, according to Dave Hanifin, is to keep Arrn1esty International a non-political group. The group stresses the fact that it stands on \humanitarian grounds.\ They do not affiliate themselves-. politically nor religiously. In fact, Amnesty International must be cautious in not over-stepping this assumed boundary; since it receives an allocation from the Student Forum pending a detachment from political or religious factions. The one exception to this rule is that Amnesty International openly opposes the death penalty, but, upon consensus of the members of the Union chapter, they do .not actively participate in this movement. The agenda for the coming year is still tentative; yet, there are plans for a human-rights week toward the end of fall term. Movies concerning amnesty are planned to be shown, and speakers on am- nesty and torture are going to be sponsored by the group. (Presently, Amnesty Inter- national is looking for speakers. ) A large part of Amnesty International's agenda will be devoted to writing and collating letters asking for amnesty on behalf of prisoners. As for the meetings, president Dave Hanifin announced that they would be more \discussion-oriented\ than years before. He also en- couraged anyone interested in joining to come to the meetings (see posted announcements) or talk to one of the officers. The other officers besides Dave Hanifin and Diana Praus are Public Relations Coordinator Chris Gabriels, and Treasurer Alan Kr-iegstein. Amnesty International also puts out a bi- annual publication titled Candlelight. FRESHMEN: 1331 DAYS UNTIL GRADUATION! President and the faculty, as Ramee's original design had to well as all the students.' In be altered slightly in order to addition, all common areas and solve architectural problems classrooms were located within and to. increase practicality. the very same structure. Anxious to see his project in Eliphalet Nott, President of progress, Nott instructed the Union College, and his unique builders to start laying the theories for education soon foundation for the rotunda in attracted more students then 1859, even though his grandson ·the building could ac- had not submitted any working commodate and thus in 1812 plans to·the builders. Nott had expansion was inevitable. the .builders do things which Having no room to expand in its were nowhere in the original ' present location, Nott acquired plans. On May 16 the builder a plot of land on a hill where and Professor Gillespie staked Union College exists today. out the foundation for a 16-sided Needing an architect to plan polygon shaped building. The his new campus, Nott entrusted transition from round to 16 his project to Ramee, an ar- sided was one example of an chitect he had thought highly of alteration from Ramee's during a previous meeting. original plan. Another occurred Ramee's plan for Union's when Potter decided to replace campus had the buildings Rammee's classical portico arranged in a somewhat cir- with a Byzantine porch. cular manner with a great By June in 1859 a six foot high domed cylinder as the focal foundation was evidence of the point in the center. This beginning of the realization of cylindrical building resembled \ Nott's dream. Unfortunately · a Roman rotunda with one Nott died in 1866, not living to entrance topped by a low see more than ·six feet of his spherical dome and a narrow dream. front portico. Nott loved this The Civil War and the years idea of a central focal point on following brought many campus and it became almost changes to this country and to an obsession for the rest of his Union College. In 1872 life. enrollment was less than ¥4 of Unfortunately because of What it had been in 1860. failure to raise enough funds However. one thing did remain through state lotteries, the unchanged-the campus' centr- rotunda was never built. For al structure remained only six many years Nott schemed to feet high. This ring of stones raise money to fund the con- resembled greatly the ring of struction of the rotunda but by trees of 13 years earlier-a 1847 a silent ring of trees was all symbol of stagnency in the that stood to symbolize the fulfillment of Nott's dream. dream of Ramee and Nott. In 1869 Union students staged In 1845 Union College a demonstration to protest the celebrated its golden an- general disrepair of the college. niversary and in 1854 Eliphalet This demonstration was staged Nott celebrated ~0 years as at the 6 foot high ring of stones President of Union College. which the students jokingly Nott, after noting the con- referred to as \Fort Gillespie\ siderable alumni who turned after the man who had layed its out for the celebrations, for-- groundwork. mulated a plan to create an In 1871 another demonstr-ation Alumni Association to sustain was staged at \Fort Gillespie\ graduate interest in the college. but for a rather different pur- This Association would require pose. This time the students an acceptable meeting place were celebrating money and what would be better than summing to $100,000 which was Nott's Roman rotunda? Nott to be used to finish construction surmised that the rotunda could of the building. A new builder, house a chapel on the first floor Rollins, was contracted but the and an alumni hall on the upper terms of the contract called for level. Nott finally saw a chance the omission of several of the to fulfill the dream he had kept distinguishing features of the for over 40 years-the Roman structure. Rollin's instructions rotunda would finally be a were to omit the dome and reality. In 1858 Nott laid the construct the interior to house a cornerstone for the Rotunda at series of workrooms in addition a ceremony during com- to the chapel. mencement excercises. The initial construction took a By this time Ramee had died long time and by 1874 the walls · and Nott was in need of an had just been completed when a architect to draft specific plans dispute arose between Rollins for the building. For this, Nott and Union as to how much they turned to his grandson Edward were worth. After the dispute Tuckerman Potter who had had been settled, Rollins an- graduated from Union in 1853. Continued on page 7 ;~~~~~~;~;~~~Jl;~;~~~mmm~~l;~m~~~lf!~~;~l~l~~~;i;~l~l~l11~11lll~ijl~l!l!l~lll!lll~ml;~mmm~l~l~l~1llt!l~~1il~l~mmm!m~;~~ . . I nnnscboolofLaw I : ~ ~N~~!~~~H~~s~l~ngland College : The School of Law at Western New England College Springfield, Massachusetts wi II be represented by Professor James Gordon on Thursday, October 31, 1985 from 10:00 aDm.-12:00 noon at Career Development Center Union College Please sign-up at Career Services OffiCe. We encourage attendance by interested students, including women, minority, and handicapped . students.. . :.:·:·:·:·!•!•!•: .. :-:•:•:a.:•:·:·:·:·:::::·:·:·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::::::::::::: f','•\•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•••'•'•'o\•'• '•'•'•'• • • • • •\ •\' • • • • •·•,• '•'•'•'•'•'<~'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•'•!•'•'•'•'•'•'•'~•'•'• .. •\• •!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•:e!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!:!:!:!:!•::•:=:•:•!•!•!•:•:•:•:•:•:•:~:·:~:·:~:•:•:•!•!•!~:•:•:•:•:•!•!•:•!•:•:•!a!•!•:•:•!•: !•:•:•!•!•!•!•!•!•:•!•!•:•!•:e!•!•:•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!•!--!•!•!•!•!•,••'•'•\!• 1 1 1 1 t 1 •,•,•,•.•.,•.,•,•,••••••'•\•'•'illlo'•'i'•'-'•'•'•'e.~• ~ I I I I . .! - - Ql m M r(J li! th C( 01 S1 w sJ u g p p d F s s s s s s p s :E r f I t t

~ I I I I -~ CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page7 Poet Recites By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Associat~ Feature Editor John Stallworthy has left quite an impression on my mind. On October 16, Professor Marten introduced him to a room crowded with attentive listeners, as a true artist, and that he is. The tools he· uses consist of a pen, paper, and his own sharp mind. John Stallworthy is a master of the written word, a poet. that had he known of such likenesses, he would have been sure to change them. It seems safe to assume, then, that in most instances where poets seem to have copied each other, they were actually totally unaware of this transformation of thought. FEATURES For two weeks Stallworthy is sharing his time with us here at Union. During this time he is giving lectures, reading from poems, and visiting classes. His presentation on the 16th was divided ·into two main · topics. First, he comparedthe works of several different poets. Stallworthy stated that he was surprised to find many in- stances where poets used similar themes, rhyme schemes, and even identical phrases. He pointed out such similarities between John Keats' poem, \Ode to a Nightingale,\ and an extract from Mathew Arnold's \The Scholar Gypsy.\ Some poems ressemble each other so much that it is tempting to accuse their authors of plagiarism. Stallworthy noted, however, that he even found instances of such similarities in his own work, where he had un- consciously transformed parts of poems he had read earlier in his life, into his own poetry. Obviously this . is not plagairism. Stallworthy stated The second topic Stallworthy discussed dealt with the disappearing role of poetry in our society. Stallworthy found that in more technologically developed societies, poetry has become less significant. Stalhvorthy stated that many of his students at Cornell have difficulty reading poems, and I, myself, find it quite a chore to read a poem out loud. He suggested that education is the key element that can help regain our lost understanding of poetry. When we are young, we are taught many nursery rhymes and enjoy them im- mensely. Typically, our next encounter with poetry is during college when we are asked to analyze com,plex works .. Somehow, through this proce~s, poetry loses much of its charm. If the process of education were to continue more gradually, we would surely have a more natural understanding of poetry and enjoy it much more; For Whom The Bells Toll- ·The Nott: Sacrifices have been made in our education. However, we cannot let the magical language of poetry fade away and become extihct. We must listen to the many talented guests at Union, such as Jon Stallworthy, and heed their warnings. By MARGARET BOITANO Features Editor Way up high in the sky, princely, majestic, and free stands the ever present ~d unquestionably perminent Bell Tower of Memorial Chapel, a sound fixture and tradition which the college has boasted since 1926. Between the four petite walls of this intriguingly sombre structure lies a per- sonality so diverse as to be unmercifully intimidating by night yet refreshingly vital by day. It's versitile presence, determined to miss nothing and quietly observe all, has baffled even the most sincere. So when the opportunity aro~~ one lone Thursday night to visit the An Historical Perspective Continued from page 6 nounced that he would not proceed unless Ramee's original dome was included. He also suggested that the interior be constructed as one large lecture room which would dually serve as Alumni office and Library-Art gallery. By the winter of 1875 the dome was still uncapped and measures were taekn to tern· porarily protect the structure from the harsh Schenectady winter. The dome was capped at the top .with a conical skylight and wood boarding was placed in to keep out the snow. Interestingly enough,' the \temporary\ wood lasted in the building for 25 more years and the equally \temporary\ skylight is still atop the Nott Memorial. In 1679 the completion of the N ott Memorial was confirmed by the arrival of the library and college art collection. Pictures of the iibrary reveal an ap- parent \library in the round\ set-up consisting of large wooden tables and chairs and glass enclos-ed bookshelves. Iron grillwork encircled the upper gallery and l:arge marble statues peered over at the in· dustrious students working below. By 1954 the enrolhnent at Union had grown to such .. an extent that a new, larger library ·was needed. Upon completion of Shaffer Library the qUestion arose as to the new use of the Nott Memorial. In 1961 the Mountebanks replaced the library and in 1963 the bookstore replaced the \stacks\. Union College is still growing and with the completion of Carnegie Hall as the new student center, the question again arises as to the use of the Nott. In 1973 architect John Mesick published a structure analysis report on the present condition of the Nott. He predicts in his report that the \Nott Memorial will not remain long as Union's chief landmark, unless immediate action is taken to arrest deterioration and to find more suitable uses for it. The roofs are beyond patching; they must be replaced. Already much plasterwork is beyond retrieval. If the present activities within the buil.ding are not carefully monitored, they could result in its accidental destruction.\ Noted in his report. is a suggested new program for the Nott which includes (after its restoration), the admissions offices, exhibition gallery, meeting hall, and financial aid offices at a cost of $1.6 million. It is true that the cost of restoring the Nott Memorial will be considerably higher than the 1973 figure, yet we must decide where our priorities lie. Many men have spent years so that Eliphalet Nott's dream could come true. The Nott has become not only a landmark but a symbol of Union College. The pride and traditions of our in- stitution and the hard work to attain the realization of dreams that the Nott symbolizes should not be allowed to crumble. We must strive to enable the Nott Memorial to symbolize the next 198 years of dreams, hopes and aspirations of those who pass through Union College. State Legislative Course- Internship Meeting There will be a meeting in S.S. 117 at 4:00 P.M. on Wednesday, October 30 to explain Legislative Observers, a two- term course (Winter-Spring) in- corporating part-time internships in the New York State Legislature. Any in- terested student who cannot attendthe meeting should speak to Professor Hartwig or Professor Underwood about the course. Bells, perhaps even play a tune, a refusal was out of the question. On the contrary, nothing less than a thorough investigation could warrant the situation. The ascent to the Bells was challenging indeed, nothing for the physically unfit or especially clumsy novice to attempt under uncertain cir- cumstances. But once suc- cessfully conquered and within full view of the towering and slightly imposing Bells, a novel sensation of tingling intrigue could not be supressed. The Bells, eleven in all, range in notes from F to G and two flats are included in this three key set up. One would surmise that from the limited apparatus only a small unsophisticated repertoire of songs could be maintained but this is oh so untrue! During the course of numerous walks on campus and my recent visit to the Bells a huge variety of songs have sung out in friendly greetings. Many a late afternoon one can hear the chiming of the Alma Mater, a religious hymn, of an even more modern song like \Chariots of Fire\. Big huge folders of Classical, Religious, Traditional, and Popular songs patiently await the arr!val of two students selected each year and given the task of ringing the Bells daily. This years students include Ted Carlson and Driena Webster. Over the years, the repetoire of songs has been dramatically increased due to the much appreciated help from Ken Budka, Ted Carlson, and Barry Gilmore, students at Union. The Tower has recently been renovated through the com- bined efforts to raise funds by Professor HWltley and other concerned affiliates of Union College. Insulation and heat now enable the Bells and clock to be rtm year round regardless of bitter frosts and heavy snow. Homecoming 1985 will bring with its traditional festivities a novel chance for old to meet new when Mr. Peter K. Smith, an alumnus from the class of 1970, will once again ring the Memorial Chapel Bells of his former years to revive his past committment with Union College. The Bell Tower will always be a sound site of tradition at Union College and the people ,who have invested time in its maintenance are a dedicated breed who value the true meaning of tradition for isn't that what \college\ is all about? The Memorial Chapel Clock newly renovated. The Ticket Booth is located in Old Chapel, first floor. Hours are as follows: Monday-Friday 12-noon.-12 Midnight Saturday & Sunday 2 p.m.· Midnight ~ QJ ..0 :::> 1;.. 0 QJ > 10 0 >- .0 0 - 0 .£: 0. 1... (],) ..0 :;) 1... l!) (],) > 10 0 >- .0 0 0 .£: 0.

Pal!e 8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 (JlnnntrbitttSfs LETTERS Fowrdtti at limon Coli~~ 1877 ----------- --------- Welcome Home! To all returning alumni, the editorial board of · Concordiensis would like to extend a warm welcome. We certainly hope that your stay here is enjoyable. · Although as undergt:_aduates,. we cannot fully con- ceive of what it's like to be \out we do know that it . must be really exciting to be back. For many of you, the campus has had quite a face-life since you last saw it. Things are definitely changing around here. We are all quite anxiously awaiting the end results. Also, since the last time you were back, many changes have taken place within your own lives. Now's your chance to show everyone what you've made of yourselves. It seems strange to think how quickly time goes by. The changes which we ex- perience are many. One thing is fairly constant and unchanging though, the pride of a Union graduate is constant. We feel it now as undergraduates; the sense of tradition here makes us feel proud to be part of Dutchman history. There's so much to do this weekend-the football game (a definite gridder victory! ) , an Arts Club performance, Cabaret, Robert Klein and, of course, cocktail parties galore. People have put a lot of effort into making this Homecoming a great one for you (we undergrads can't wait until we're the ones being welcomed back-it's less work then)! We really hope you have a terrific weekend! As you spend your short time here, getting welcomed back a million and one times, remember what a special place this is. We live the tradition every.day. Student Needs The subject of curricular reform has had its fair share of space on the editorial pages of Concordiensis in recent issues. In fact, for a conservative campus, that does not latch on to causes too often, we seem to have found ourselves quite a hot issue. The effects of the proposed changes in the liberal learning system on students' grade-point averages have already been discussed. But, while GPA's may be more important to students than most would care to admit, the critical issue here is the needs of the students. Will the proposed curricular reform serve those needs best? At this point it is hard to say. The fact of the matter is that while the Subcommittee is looking to do away with some courses, they are not targeting any par- ticular ones as yet. It is difficult for faculty members to point the finger at courses that should be eliminated because it means criticizing their fellow colleagues. Students, however, are in a . perfect position to let the Subcommittee know which courses they found worthwhile and which ones they believe should be done away with. If students do not voice their opinions now, some valuable courses may be lost. In the current re-evaluation of the liberal lear- ning program, it is easy to forget the advantages of many of the liberal learning courses currently of- fered. It is a well-known faCt that students have differing abilities. While one students may be good at English, another may be more proficient at Mathematics. It seems that the present system acknowledges this fact. By offering students the option of taking courses such as Math 20 and 21, it allows them to learn something about Calculus without going over their heads. For students who have never excelled in math, it can give them a great feeling of accomplislunent instead of being a source of constant frustration. As of yet, there has been no talk of doing away with Math 20 or 21, and it is hopep that the impo$nce of these courses will be recognized in the final evaluation. These two courses are only an example; there are many other profitiable courses in the liberal learning program. The question is: Which courses are they? The subcommittee wants to know. They need to hear from YOU! In upcoming issues of Concordiensis, we plan to offer you a chance to voice your opinions through surveys. We hope that you will let us know what you think then so we can pass on the findings to the sub- committee. Mter all, being able to recognize and best provide for the needs of a diverse group of students is what a good education is all about. Now is the time to let the Subcommittee know what your educational needs are so they can best provide for them. Dean Explains the ·Law To the editor, I would like to correct a number of false conclusions which appeared in a letter in last week's Concordy under the title \Drinking Age Stays 19.\ Because the changes in the law will soon concern many members of our community, it is important to understand completely what the law will or will not permit after December 1. The New York State Alcohol Beverage Control Law will continue to prohibit those under the legal age (21) from pur- chasing or attempting to pur- chase alcoholic beverages by fraudulent means (possible penalty: $100 fine and one year probation). The writer of last week's letter fails to mention that the law will also continue to prohibit anyone from giving, selling, or causing to be given alcoholic beverages to another under 21 (the only exception: parents or guardians may legally give alcoliol to their children under twenty-one years of age). Furthermore, anyone who has \knowledge or reasonable cause to believe\ that he is providing alcohol to a person under 21 may himself be subject to a civil law suit by a third party if the Wlderage person injures, causes the death of another, or damages property. To conclude, as does the author of the letter, that those under 21 will be able to continue to consume alcohol legally-on campus or elsewhere-is to ignore those key sections of the law prohibiting the giving of alcohol to those under age. The law specifically prohibits persons . under the age of 21 from at· tempting to purchase alcohol and prohibits their being given it. How can it be legal to C<!n· swne it then? The writer also goes on to .say (incorrectly) that, \at times almost half of the student body will have the right to both purchase and consume\ alcohDl and he therefore cautions those who are pushing for a dry campus (?) that students over the age of twenty-one should retain their \right\ to drink on campus. Assuming that next year's data will be comparable to this year's, It is important to know that had the new law been in effect on September 1, 100[), 77 per cent of Union College students would have been under 21 ; by the end of the fall term · this figure will have dropped slightly to 75 per cent; by the end of the winter term to 67.5 per cent; and by the end of spring term to 63.5 per cent. Thus, at any given time during the academic year, at least approximately two thirds or more of the student body will not be of legal age to purchase, or by implication, be legally given alcoholic beverages to consume. In devising a new policy it is important to have an accurate sense of the number of students who will or will not be of age. It is not correct to conclude that, at times, half of the student body will be of age. Finally, in reaching his conclusions, the writer does not take into account the con- sequences of the College's liability and the liability of student organizations should students under 21 drink on campus and tragedies occur. In our contemporary environment of high alcoholarelated litigation, concerns for in- stitutional liability, sky- rocketing or impossibleato-get liability insurance-, ·and large civil-law judgments, the right of the institution to protect its students (especially those under the legal age) from the tragic results of alcoho• abuse and itself f:rom the con- sequences of liability judgments simply cannot be ignored by those divising the new policy. The issues surrounding the change in the law are complex and not easily resolved in policy formulation. However, the obligation of the College and of students is quite clear: we must obey the law, whether we agree with it, or not. At the present time a College-wide committee composed of students, faculty, and members of the ad- ministration is developing the College's post-21 Alcohol Use Policy. We welcome everyone's comments and suggestions which can be directed to me or to the student members (Craig Blum, Dawn Chupay, Scott Danziger, Robin Gross, and Pat Virnich). There will be an Open Forum meeting of the com- mittee on Wednesday, October 30 at 10:00 a.m. in Humanities Building, room 115. All students are invited to come and learn of the new law's implications and share their thoughts with the committee. We look forward to your suggestions. Joseph L. Mammola, for the Committee Recruiters Need Parking Space To the editor, It has come t(} my attention, that on Friday, October 19, 1985, the Career Development Center was informed that on-campus recruiters would no longer be allowed to park behind the CDC. This change in policy requires that recruiters park in the,lots behind the field house or in the All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must be signed but names wi:ll be withheld upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis . ~ ' . commuter parking lot behincl Richmond. Not only does this require additional time that the uniformed recruiter must plan for, but it may hinder a person's interview ( ie. cut it short or pllt it behind schedule). The recruiters are per- forming a service to our campus by allowing our graduates exposw·e in the job market; and allowing us to make a name for the college in industry. I feel that that ex- posure to the outside world is worth the price of a few parking · places. Deborah S. Levine Graduating Senior I ..

PaQe 8 CONCORD/ENSIS, October 24, 1985 ~DDfDfbitttSiS LETTERS Foundt-d at Umon College 1877 ------------ -------- Welcome Home! To all returning alumni, the editorial board of Concordiensis would like to extend a warm welcome. We certainly hope that your stay here is enjoyable. Although as underg~aduates, we cannot fully con- ceive of what it's like to be ''out,\ we do know that it must be really exciting to be back. For many of you, the campus has had quite a face-life since you last saw it. Things are definitely changing around here. We are all quite anxiously a waiting the end results. Also, since the last time you were back, many changes have taken place within your own lives. Now's your chance to show everyone what you've made of yourselves. It seems strange to think how quickly time goes by. The changes which we ex- perience are many. One thing is fairly constant and unchanging though, the pride of a Union graduate is constant. We feel it now as undergraduates; the sense of tradition here makes us feel proud to be part of Dutchman history. There's so much to do this weekend-the football game (a definite gridder victory! ) , an Arts Club performance, Cabaret, Robert Klein and, of course, cocktail parties galore. People have put a lot of effort into making this Homecoming a great one for you (we undergrads can't wait until we're the ones being welcomed back-it's less work then)! We really hope you have a terrific weekend! As you spend your short time here, getting welcomed back a million and one times, remember what a special place this is. We live the tradition everyday. Student Needs The subject of curricular reform has had its fair share of space on the editorial pages of Concordiensis in recent issues. In fact, for a conservative campus, that does not latch on to causes too often, we seem to have found ourselves quite a hot issue. The effects of the proposed changes in the liberal learning system on students' grade-point averages have already been discussed. But, while GPA's may be more important to students than most would care to admit, the critical issue here is the needs of the students. Will the proposed curricular reform serve those needs best? At this point it is hard to say. The fact of the matter is that while the Subcommittee is looking to do away with some courses, they are not targeting any par- ticular ones as yet. It is difficult for faculty members to point the finger at courses that should be eliminated because it means criticizing their fellow colleagues. Students, however, are in a perfect position to let the Subcommittee know which courses they found worthwhile and which ones they believe should be done away with. If students do not voice their opinions now, some valuable courses may be lost. In the current re-evaluation of the liberal lear- ning program, it is easy to forget the advantages of many of the liberal learning courses currently of- fered. It is a well-known fact that students have differing abilities. While one students may be good at English, another may be more proficient at Mathematics. It seems that the present system acknowledges this fact. By offering students the option of taking courses such as Math 20 and 21, it allows them to learn something about Calculus without going over their heads. For students who have never excelled in math, it can give them a great feeling of accomplishment instead of being a source of constant frustration. As of yet, there has been no talk of doing away with Math 20 or 21, and it is hoped that the importance of these courses will be recognized in the final evaluation. These two courses are only an example; there are many other profitiable courses in the liberal learning program. The question is: Which courses are they? The subcommittee wants to know. They need to hear from YOU! In upcoming issues of Concordiensis, we plan to offer you a chance to voice your opinions through surveys. We hope that you will let us know what you think then so we can pass on the findings to the sub- committee. After all, being able to recognize and best provide for the needs of a diverse group of students is what a good education is all about. Now is the time to let the Subcomn1ittee know what your educational needs are so they can best provide for them. Dean Explains the Law To the editor, I would !:ike to correct a number of false conclusions which appeared in a letter in last week's Concordy Wlder the title \Drinking Age Stays 19.\ Because the changes in the law will soon concern many members of our community, it is important to understand completely what the law will or wHl not permit after December 1. The New York State Alcohol Beverage Control Law will continue to prohibit those under the legal age (21) from pur- chasing or attempting to pur- chase alcoholic beverages by fraudulent means (possible penalty: $100 fine and one year probation). The writer of last week's letter fails to mention that the law will also continue to prohibit anyone from giving, selling, or causing to be given alcoholic beverages to another under 21 (the only exception: parents or guardians may legally give alcoliol to their children under twenty-one years of age). Furthermore, anyone who has \knowledge or reasonable cause to believe\ that he is providing alcohol to a person under 21 may himself be subject to a civil law suit by a third party if the Wlderage person injures, causes the death of another, or damages property. To conclude, as does the author of the letter, that those under 21 will be able to continue to consume alcohol legally~on campus or elsewhere-is to ignore those key sections of the law prohibiting the giving of alcohol to those under age. The law specifically prohibits persons under the age of 21 from at- tempting to purchase alcohol and prohibits their being given it. How can it be legal to can- sume it then? The writer also goes on to say (incorrectly) that, \at times almost half of the student body will have the right to both purchase and consume\ alcohol and he therefore cautions those who are pushing for a dry campus (?) that students over the age of twenty-one should retain their \right\ to drink on campus. Assuming that next year's data will be comparable to this year's, it is important to know that had the new law been in effect on September 1, 1985, 77 per cent of Union College students would have been under 21; by the end of the fall term this figure will have dropped slightly to 75 per cent; by the end of the winter term to 67.5 per cent; and by the end of spring term to 63.5 per cent. Thus, at any given time during the academic year, at least approximately two thirds or more of the student body will not be of legal age to purchase, or by implication, be legally given alcoholic beverages to consume. In devising a new policy it is important to have an accurate sense of the number of students who will or will not be of age. It is not correct to conclude that, at times, half of the student body will be of age. Finally, in reaching his conclusions, the writer does not take into account the con- sequences of the College's liability and the liability of student organizations should students under 21 drink on campus and tragedies occur. ln our contemporary environment of high alcohol-related litigation, concerns for in- stitutional liability, sky- rocketing or impossible-to-get liability insurance, and large civil-law judgments, the right of the institution to protect its students (especially those under the legal age) from the tragic results of alcohol abuse and Itself from the con- sequences of liability judgments simply cannot be ignored by those divising the new policy. The issues surrounding the change in the law are complex: and not easily resolved in policy formulation. However, the obligation of the College and of students is quite clear: we must obey the law, whether we agree with it, or not. At the present time a College-wide committee composed of students, faculty, and members of the ad- ministration is developing the College's post-21 Alcohol Use Policy. We welcome everyone's comments and suggestions which can be directed to me or to the student members (Craig Blum, Dawn Chupay, Scott Danziger, Robin Gross, and Pat Virnich). There will be an Open Forwn meeting of the com- mittee on Wednesday, October 30 at 10:00 a.m. in Humanities Building, room 115. All students are invited to come and learn of the new law's implications and share their thoughts with the committee. We look forward to your suggestions. Joseph L. Mammola, for the Committee Recruiters Need Parking Space To the editor, It has come to my attention, that on Friday, October 19, 1985, the Career Development Center was informed that on-campus recruiters would no longer be allowed to park behind the CDC. This change in policy requires that recruiters park in the lots behind the field house or in the All letters to the editor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must be signed but names will be withheld upon request. Letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis commuter parking lot behind Richmond. Not only does this require additional time that the uniformed recruiter must plan for, but it may hinder a person's interview ( ie. cut it short or put it behind schedule). The recruiters are per- forming a service to our campus by allowing our graduates exposure in the job market, and allowing us to make a name for the college in industry. I feel that that ex- posure to the outside world is worth the price of a few parking places. Deborah S. Levine Graduating Senior tt f . , ··. '•.t·.··· 'R··.·· • ti,f.· If. . . ~ ~ ' ~· :;A\Bs· :eaildlt<~; .~~t~~Bi Q'Qtnm,~n-··!ege~Ht<lr · · ,.. , · · rs ·.· ... . >.ll~b~~Aii:wirt~Todlr, ·· . =·Edii£:$Editors· · Jay~=!~~~;e~rif· A(lvertising~ditors Debbie ROse; H:Den Slippt Lauren Sobel M$oe. Adv. Editor . . , · Amy R;()se.okrantz: , ., .. l~es$,Manag.ets, Heith '.Ounkllnt NancyGl'Wldman , . :R:hatoEdiwr . · ... - »aveGl!Uber ·· A .... tel?llototilditor .. · . , · ·· Stuart>Qdell, '-Mi'ts. hotGE<JitaM· • . · Imuidi:ooh;,Pa~M~rvitt· subScriptions Editors BtllF~ns~rmakert Damel N.ieou Staff: Rich Allen, Tert cannonj . Cm-rle Cerrone, Dave · tlutli:ver; Kim Uanuuck~ Monique · H:tt'l'iSUn; Andy Hoogkinj Jane Kisselt Beth Levine, ·Eric ·Ifamlln, Cathy: M'1!rkes, Joanne M<JAndrews, Judy Pnee; , · ura Shapiro; Kav.eh Shebani, Chris Sheridan~ Mary S()ley, Julie Steinberg, Conrad Tatge, Amy Walsh. CONCQRDmlNSt$ is published .. every. Thursday by the student. body of Um. 'on Colleger Ca. rnegie Hall~. Schnootady, New York 123GB; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New Yorlr.13338, (607) 56a.;3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Offtce as third class matter every three weeks. Subscription rate: $21 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. · CONCOiU>lENSIS subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). . Ofiic,~Telepho~e--(518) 370-6155 ...

CONCORDIENSIS, October_ 24, 1985 Page 9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES Liber,al Arts Championed Ta the editor: Yeah! for the controversy over the Sub-Council on the Curriculwn recommendations, and for Concordy~s role in publishing the memoranda, Council platforms, Prof. Gado's reaction and student Lipman's opinion colWllll. For this non- regular student, non-faculty but nevertheless interested and ~c~ive Uni?n Coll~ge par .. t1c1pant, the 1ssue of hberal arts v:s. preprofessional-education is of paramount importance to the future of the College, and in a small way (since other in- stitutions world-wide are making similar choic~s during this economically insecure decade) to the future of Western civiliZation. The · question can be broadened. Is our goal to train the graduate of the· 80's to contribute to· the rapid technological advances now in progress, or to buck or at least soften the trend? Working people who are interested primarily in contributing to and appreciating culture--books, art, music, politics, philosophy, sports, intellectual and emotional give-and-take, which is not relevant to their careers, are not likely to work 8()..hour or even 60-hour weeks in pursuit of professional status or income. They are also not likely to devote themselves to similar single-minded ' 1 professional- ism.\ So, many of us who have chosen not to be Professional anythings fall somewhere in between. We want the skills and education that will allow us to earn a decent (not necessarily Yuppie) income, without having to work so hard at it that we have to give up all of our other loves, interests and areas that contribute to our self-esteem. We want to be eclectic ... to be \Ren~issance'' Women and men. Interesting, provocative diverse caurse offerings on both introducto~y and advanced levels allow us to pursue these goals, as do attending lectures, workshops, concerts, exhibits exercise and sports classes, and shows. Unfortunately for us, we don't have a very strong lobby grouptouting our best interests, and we're not a very cohesive cotps.,..busily and individually scannmg our newspaper, flyers, college bulletins and other media for educational and cultural stimulation like we were kids let loose i1l a candy shop. Here I stand, 17 years after I graduated from college, having made the choice (popular back then in the 60's) to forgo a vocational (teaching) degree that was immediately marketable in favor of a liberal arts (Comparative Literature, of all things) degree which was not. Even so, I supported my husband and I through his Ph.D. program, and have been variously a secretary, a teacher, a program developer, a manager, a sales rep., an advertising account rep., a child-care provider and a chef. I have no doubt that I could provide the sole support for myself and my children if it were necessary; since it is not, I enjoy a variety of pUrsuits during my leisure hours, in- cluding attending classes at Union. I wonder how many \regular\ Union students would be content to see themselves and their spouses similarly eclectic when they are in their mid-thirties. I hope there are more than a few, and that they, and I, will feel comfortable and accommodated in the Union College that exists in the year 2000. Sandy Greenberg Guards at All Dorms To the editor: In the October 10 edition of Concordiensis, much reference was wade to to the two male intruders who were on campus a few weeks ago. Reportedly, the youths were seen only in West College. Actually, students in Richmond and Fox dormitories also reported disturbances in the dorm rooms by boys who matched the same description. Also, no mention was made of the fact that various amounts of cash were discovered missing from several of the rooms subsequent to the intrusion, purportedly by these same two boys. It was suggested that \Short of .posting guards at every gate and lacing the fence posts with barbed wire .. .it is impossible to keep every non-resident from entering (the campus).\ Also, an appeal was made to students to refrain from propping dorm doors open, which lessens the probability of a resident being locket out, but also increases . the likelihood of undesirables gaining access. However, it was also pointed out that it is easy to gain access even to th~ locked buildings, simply by walking in behind a group of students who have a key. The solution to this problem seems ridiculously simple, and perhaps that is why it has already been solved by universities across the country, especially those in metropolitan areas. As repeatedly pointed out, Schenectady is a city, and it is naive to assume that Union College is· a \Utopia\ in the midst of it. Thus, posting security guards in front of or immediately inside each dorm seems like a logical move. Even student guards would be ac- ceptable, simply to check for college I.D. 's for each person who wishes to gain access to the dorm. The guard should be equipped with a house phone and a list of mimes and phone numbers, and visitors would need clearance from the receiving resident student. This proposal would solve a variety of problems, ranging from student safety to mild annoyance and inconvenienee for residents and visitors. Security guards would ob- viously prevent intruders from entering the buildings, thus maximizing dorm security. Students usually prop doors open to reduce the risk of get- ting locked out, but with guards posted the doors to the dorms need not be locked. Visitors who are unsure of the dorm layouts could ask these guards for directions. Also, as a result of vandalism in dorm lounges last year, the newly renovated lounges in Fox and Davidson are now locked at night. With a guard to keep an eye out for potential vandals, these lounges, which, after all, were built and improved for the use of the students, could remain open at all times. It is obvious that this plan should be seriously considered, so that our campus could be a safer and better place in which to live. Debbie Brenner · Disapprove Arms for Jordan By MONIQUE HARRISON - This week, AIPAC, American Israel Political Action Com- mittee., will be sponsoring a campaign of letter writing and . petit it on signing to urge Congressmen . to support the resolution of disapproval of the sale of arms to Jordan. · A 1.9 billion dollar advanced weaponry sale to Jordan was proposed by President Reagan last June. Senators drew up a resolution opposing such a sale because Jordan has shown no step towards direct negotiations with Israel; for King Hussein it has been all talk-no action. In 1984, Reagan .considered such a sale to Jordan but he withdrew such a proposal because of Congressional op- position: Yet,. June 11 Reagan did not resign in his goal towards an arms sale and he proposed that 40 · warplanes, either 5-16's or F-20's, and inoffensive and defensive weapons be sold to Jardan. June 20, in the midst of conflict, the Senate fueled an attack against the sale and claimed only when negotiations are taking place would a sale of arms to Jordan be possible. Congress has never been known to pass legislation ob- structing foreign arms sale. Ye, Congress feels differently towards this particular sale to Jordan: \It would jeopardize both the security of Israel and progress towards peace in the Middle East.\ In order to block a sale, a joint resolution must be passed because Jf the 1983 Supreme Cour~ Ruling declaring legislative vetoes unconstitutional. A presidential veto would require a Congressional override. A resolution is a public pronouncement without enact- ing a law. A joint resolution initiates in one house and proceeds to the next legislative body. The resolution of disapproval of the sale of arms to Jordan states that the U.S. is not to sell arms to Jordan unless Jordan \is p~blicly committed to the recognition of Israel and to prompt entry into serious peace negotiations.\ · The procedure of such an arms sale begins with an in- formal notice which was given Thursday, October 3 by President Reagan. Under normal procedure, there are 20 days until formal notice. During these 20 days there are negotiations of conditions. After formal notice is presented, there is a 3()..day period of legal mandate in which Congress can block part or all of the sale. Congress can either pass a bill obstructing the sale or pass a joint resolution. If there is a presidential veto of this legislation, then Congress needs to override the veto and in this case Reagn will need 35 senatorial votes to sustain a most probable veto. Congress will have a second chance to address this issuem 1986 and 1987 when approval of 1 billion dollar loans to Jordan to help finance the purchase is needed. Jordan will need help from the U.S. or other Arab countries. This sale of arms to Jordan would be the largest ever sale to Jordan and one of the largest to an Arab country. September 27 Reagan sent a proposal to Capitol Hill to help Jordan finance its purchase. The battle of this monetary ~ssi~ance will be in the Senate; 1t will most probably be over- whelmingly passed in the House. The reasons for the resolution of disapproval of sale of arms to Jordan are valid. It is not skeptical to be suspicious of Jordan's true motives for the purchase of arms. Jordan's background has shawn only a heinous and dangerous attitude towards Israel. Jordan has contributed in every major war against Israel and has invited the P.L.O. to seek refuge on its soil. The P.L.O., Palestinian Liberation Organization, is a terrorist organization only \dabbling'' in politics and it cannot be trusted in its actions towards Israel. According to an Arab editor, \The bottom line for now is that King Hussein needs Arafat for protection.\ King Hussein needs the P.L.O. for protection for two reasons. First, if King Hussein was to turn his back on the P.L.O., then he would be vulnerable to P.L.O. retaliatory attacks in his own country. Second, King Hussein does not want to stand alone in the peace process with Israel as Egypt did because Egypt's independent step caused it to be ostracized from the rest of the Arab world and eventually led to the assassination of Sadat. If King Hussein has another strong force to stand by him in the peace negotiations, then he will be less susceptible to con- demnation and retaliation from other Arab countries. Therefore, it is very unlikely that King Hussein will instead ·choose legitimate Palestinians, West Bankers, to negotiate at the drawing table. King Hussein is in a no-win situation: He either supports the P.L.O. and risks his credibility with the U.S. and Britain--therefore risking preventing an arms purchase- or he opp()ses this terrorist organization and suffers possible retaliation. The net result is that the peace process of the Middle East in in jeopardy. Israel is most threatened and distressed by the presence of the P.L.O. in Jordan because Israel shares its longest border with Jordan and this Jordanian border is also in close proximity to targets in Israel such as Tel Aviv-45 miles away. It would be easy for infiltration of the P.L.O. across this border therefore making Israel especially vulnerable to attacks from the P.L.O. and Jordan. There are other arguments against the sale of arms to Jordan besides the increase of the threat of an Arab offensive along the Israeli-Jordanian border. There would be a nullification of Israel's qualitative edge since Jordan would be using the same weapons as Israel has. Also, the F-20's are comparable to the Israeli fighter-bomber further undermining Israel's qualitative edge. If refusal of the sale results, then Jordan is threatening to turn to· the Soviets for weap()ns. This would be less of a threat to Israel since Soviet weapons are not as ef- fective as American weapons. Israel's security in general would be undermined because it would reduce Israel's ability to operate combat aircraft and increase Jordan's war-making ability therefore making it more likely for Hussein to participate in a future war. Economically Israel would suffer because she would be forced to implement expensive coWltermeasures and already Israel's economy is weak with inflation extremely high. Most importantly, the sale would remove the incentive for King Hussein to enter into direct peac negotiations and also hinder the peace process by having Jordan focus on weapons rather than effmts to achieve peace. Realizing the danger associated with Israel's existence, if this resolution does not pass, we must all help fight for this resolution. Every voice, every letter, every si{r.1ature on a petition counts! What you at Union can do is to support AIPAC, Amer;can Israel Political ActioJ Committee, which is commi~ted to action on behalf of Israel. Please take the time to write a letter to your Congressman and Senator and to sign the petitition drawn up by AIPAC. Israel needs your support! An Alternate Proposal By ERIC LIPMAN About three weeks ago, during a panel discussion on curricular affairs, Professor Underwood mused aloud that courses at Union should foster an intellectual atmosphere on campus. He mentioned this wish, because Professor Underwood wrestles with the fact that students don't take home with them the weighty topics they . discuss in class. Being a student then, has become sort of a nine-to-five job. He concludes; and rightly so, that Union students should be full tiule intellectuals. · · Three cheers! Yet, who could possibly disagree with that? The problem is and must be, how do we create an intellectual atmosphere on campus? Cer- tainly we could mess about with the array of .ifbe~al Learning courses, sw1tchmg things around entirely, but this seems like a risky gamble. A better alternative would be if we could find an inexpensive, effective ~ethod of bringing intelligent discourse to the campus-and all the nicer if it didn't involve the tra~a of changing course reqmrements. What this campus needs is a stone. Yes, a very large stone in fact ... A granite cube-say' 3 feet, by 3 feet, by 4 feet w~uld do-and on this stone Union's equivalent to the Minerva lecturers would stand and make their cases. Clearly: there are more than enough opinions and points of view on this c~pus, on a wide variety of subJects, to keep this stone soapbox very hot. All that needs to be done is to have these opinions and discussions brought into public view. Presently the Concordiensis is our premiere campus forum on issues, but since it only appears once a week, it suffers from tremendous limitations. Rebuttal, for instance, is s.omething that is entirely lost. No matter how outrageous the· lies are that appear in the editorial columns, a person with a different point of view has to wait 7 days to be heard. Discussions on important topics could take weeks or months, if confined to the issues of Con- cordiensis, and this iS longer than both debators and the campus audience should have to wait. If Union is to develop an \intellectual\ atmosphere on campus, opinions and viewpoints should be expressed publically on ANY DAY, or EVERYDAY. For my money, the stone seems like a very good in- vestmenL Professor Under- wood would get the climate of intelligent discourse he would like, the Campus might even argue about curriculum reform, and I could call Dave Beal on the carpet for the rubbish he wrote about me last week. Everyone would be better off.

.I . ' ' ' -1 ' I CONCORDIENSIS, October_ 24, 1985 Page 9 LET.TERS COMMENTARIES Liberal Arts Championed To the editor: Yeah! for the controversy over the Sub-Council on the Curriculum recommendations, and for Concordy's role in publishing the memoranda Council platforms, Prof. Gado'~ reaction and student Lipman's opinion column. For this non- regular student, non-faculty but nevertheless interested and active Union College par- ticipant, the issue of liberal arts vs. preprofessional education is of paramount importance to the future of the College, and in a small way (since other in- stitutions world-wide are making similar choices during this economically insecure decade) to the future of Western civilization. The question can be broadened. Is our goal to train the graduate of the 80's to contribute to the rapid technological advances now in progress, or to buck or at least soften the trend? Working people who are interested primarily in contributing to and appreciating culture--books, art, music, politics, philosophy, sports, intellectual and emotional give-and-take, which is not relevant to their careers, are not likely to work 80.hour or even 60.hour weeks in pursuit of professional status or income. They are also not likely to devote themselves to similar single-minded \professional- ism.\ So, many of us who have chosen not to be Professional anythings fall somewhere in between. We want the skills and education that will allow us to earn a decent (not necessarily Yuppie) income, without having to work so hard at it that we have to give up all of our other loves, interests and areas that contribute to our self-esteem. We want to be eclectic ... to be \Renaissance\ women and mea. Interesting, provocative diverse course offerings on both introductory and advanced levels aHew us to pursue these goals, as do attending lectures, workshops, concerts, exhibits, exercise and sports classes, and shows. Unfortunately for u.s, we don't have a very strong lobby group touting our best interests, and we're not a very cohesive corps ... busily and individually scanning our newspaper, flyers college bulletins and othe; media for educational and cultural stimulation like we were kids let loose in a candy shop. Here I stand, 17 years after I graduated from college, having made the choice (popular back then in the 60's) to forgo a vocational (teaching) degree that was immediately marketable in favor of a liberal arts (Comparative Literature, of all things) degree which was not. Even so, I supported my husband and I through his Ph.D. program, and have been variously a secretary, a teacher, a program developer, a manager, a sales rep., an advertising accoWlt rep., a child-care provider and a chef. I have no doubt that I could provide the sole support for myself and my children if it were necessary; since it is not, I enjoy a variety of pursuits during my leisure hours, in~ eluding attending classes at Union. I wonder how many \regular\ Union students would be content to see themselves and their spouses similarly eclectic when they are in their mid-thirties. I hope there are more than a few, and that they, and I, will feel comfortable and accommodated in the Union College that exists in the year 2000. Sandy Greenberg Guards at All Dorms To the editor: In the October 10 edition of Concordiensis, much reference was made to to the two male intruders who were on carnplls a few weeks ago. Reportedly, the youths were seen only in West College. Actually, students in Richmond and Fox dormitories also reported disturbances in the dorm ro()ms by boys who matched the same description. Also, no mention was made of the fact that various amounts of cash were discovered missing from several of the rooms subsequent to the intrusion, purportedly by these same two boys. It was suggested that \Short of posting guards at every gate and lacing the fence posts -with barbed wire ... it is impossible to keep every non-resident from entering (the campus).\ Als(), an appeal was made to students to refrain from propping dorm doors open, which lessens the probability of a resident being locket out, but also increases the likelihood of undesirables gaining access. However, it was also pointed out that it is easy to gain access even to thE! locked buildings, simply by walking in behind a group of students who have a k.ey. The solution to this problem seems ridiculously simple, and perhaps that is why it has already been solved by Wliversities across the country, especially those in metropolitan areas. As repeatedly pointed out, Schenectady is a city, a11d it is naive to assume that Union College is a \Utopia\ in the midst of it. Thus, posting security guards in front of or immediately inside each dorm seems like a logical move. Even student guards would be ac- ceptable, simply to check for college J.D.'s for each person who wishes to gain access to the donn. The guard should be equipped with a house phone and a list of mimes and phone numbers, and visitors would need clearance from the receiving resident student. This proposal would solve a variety of problems, ranging from student safety to mild annoyance and inconvenience for residents and visitors. Security guards would ob- viously prevent intruders from entering the buildings thus maximizing dorm se~urity. Students usually prop doors o.pen to reduce the risk of get- tmg locked out, but with guards posted the doors to the dorms need not be locked. Visitors who are unsure of the dorm layouts could ask these guards for directions. Also, as a result of vandalism in donn lounges last year, the newly renovated lounges in Fox and Davidson are now locked at night. With a guard to keep an eye out for potential vandals, these loWlges, which, after all, were built and improved for the use of the students, could remain open at all times. It is obvious that this plan should be seriously considered, so that our campus could be a safer and better place in which to live. Debbie Brenner Disapprove Arms for Jordan By MONIQUE HARRISON This week, AIPAC, American Israel Political Action Com- mittee, will be sponsoring a campaign of letter writing and petititon signing to u.rge Coagressmen to support the resolution of disapproval of the sale of arms to Jordan. A 1.9 billion dollar advanced weaponry sale to Jordan was proposed by President Reagan last June. Senators drew up a resolution opposing such a sale because Jordan has shown no step towards direct negotiations with Israel; for King Hussein it has been all talk-no action. In 1984, Reagan considered such a sale to Jordan but he withdrew such a proposal because of Congressional op- position. Yet, June 11 Reagan did not resign in his goal towards an arms sale and he proposed that 40 warplanes, either 5-16's or F-20's, and inoffen.sive and defensive weapons be sold to Jordan. June 20, in the midst of conflict, the Senate fueled an attack against the sale and claimed only when negotiations are taking place would a sale of arms to Jordan be possible. Congress has never been known to pass legislation ob- structing foreign arms sale. Ye, Congress feels differently towards this particular sale to Jordan: \It would jeopardize both the security of Israel and progress towards peace in the Middle East.\ In order to block a sale, a joint resolution. must be passed because 'f the 1983 Supreme Cour~ Ruling declaring legislative vetoes Wlconstitutional. A presidential veto would require a Congressional override. A resolution is a public pronouncement without enact- ing a law. A joint resolution initiates in one house and proceeds to the next legislative body. The resolution of disapproval of the sale of arms to Jordan states that the U.S. is not to sell arms to Jordan unless Jordan \is publicly committed to the recognition of Israel and to prompt entry into serious peace negotiations.\ The procedure of such an arms sale begins with an in- formal notice which was given Thursday, October 3 by President Reagan. Under normal procedure, there are 20 days until formal notice. During these 20 days there are negotiations of conditions. After formal notice is presented, there is a 30-day period of legal mandate in which Congress can block part or all of the sale. Congress can either pass a bill obstructing the sale or pass a joint resolution. If there is a presidential veto of this legislation, then Congress needs to override the veto and in this case Reagn will need 35 senatorial votes to sustain a most probable veto. Congress will have a second chance to address this issuein 1986 and 1987 when approval of 1 billion dollar loans to Jordan to help finance the purchase is needed. Jordan will need help from the U.S. or other Arab countries. This sale of arms to Jordan would be the largest ever sale to Jordan and one of the largest to an Arab coWltry. September 27 Reagan sent a proposal to Capitol Hill to help Jordan finance its purchase. The battle of this monetary assistance will be in the Senate· it will most probably be over~ whelmingly passed in the House. The reasons for the resolution of disapproval of sale of arms to Jordan are valid. It is not skeptical to be suspicious of Jordan's true motives for the purchase of arms. Jordan's background has shown only a heinous and dangerous attitude towards Israel. Jordan has contributed in every major war against Israel and has invited the P.L.O. to seek refuge on its soil. The P.L.O., Palestinian Liberation Organization, is a terrorist organization only \dabbling\ in politics and it cannot be trusted in its actions towards Israel. According to an Arab editor, \The bottom line for now is that King Hussein needs Arafat for protection.\ King Hussein needs the P.L.O. for protection for two reasons. First, if King Hussein was to turn his back on the P.L.O., then he would be vulnerable to P.L.O. retaliatory attacks in his own country. Second, King Hussein does not want to stand alone in the peace process with Israel as Egypt did because Egypt's independent step caused it to be ostracized from the rest of the Arab world and eventually led to the assassination of Sadat. If King Hussein has another strong force to stand by him in the peace negotiations, then he will be less susceptible to con- demnation and retaliation from other Arab countries. Therefore, it is very unlikely that King Hussein will instead choose legitimate Palestinians, West Bankers, to negotiate at the drawing table. King Hussein is in a no-win situation: He either supports the P.L.O. and risks his credibility with the U.S. and Britain--therefore risking preventing an arms purchase- or he opposes this terrorist organization and suffers possible retaliation. The net result is that the peace process of the Middle East in in jeopardy. Israel is most threatened and distressed by the presence of the P.L.O. in Jordan because Israel shares its longest border with Jordan and this Jordanian border is also in close proximity to targets in Israel such as Tel Aviv-45 miles away. It would be easy for infiltration of the P. L. 0. across this border therefore making Israel especially vulnerable to attacks from the P.L.O. and Jordan. There are other arguments against the sale of arms to Jordan besides the increase of the threat of an Arab offensive along the Israeli-Jordanian border. There would be a nullification of Israel's qualitative edge since Jordan would be using the same weapons as Israel has. Also, the F-20's are comparable to the Israeli fighter-bomber further undermining Israel's qualitative edge. If refusal of the sale results, then Jordan is threatening to turn to the Soviets for weapons. This would be less of a threat to Israel since Soviet weapons are not as ef- fective as American weapons. Israel's security in general would be undermined because it would reduce Israel's ability to operate combat aircraft and increase Jordan's war-making ability therefore making it more likely for Hussein to participate in a future war. Economically Israel would suffer because she would be forced to implement expensive countermeasures and already Israel's economy is weak with inflation extremely high. Most importantly, the sale would remove the incentive for King Hussein to enter into direct peac negotiations anrl also hinder the peace process by having Jordan focus on weapons rather than effo;ts to achieve peace. Realizing the danger associated with Israel's existence, if this resolution does not pass, we must all help fight for this resolution. Ever:; voice, every letter, every sig-.1atu.re on a petition counts! What you at Union can do is to support AIPAC, Amer;can Israel Political Actio.1 Committee, which is commi.ted to action on behalf of Israel. Please take the time to write a letter to your Congressrnan and Senator and to sign the petitition drawn up by AlP AC. Israel needs your support! An Alternate Proposal By ERIC LIPMAN About three weeks ago, during a panel discussion on curricular affairs, Professor Underwood mused aloud that courses at Union should foster an intellectual atmosphere on campus. He mentioned this wish, because Professor Underwood wrestles with the fact that students don't take home with them the weighty topics they discuss in class. Being a student then, has become sort of a nine-to-five job. He concludes, and rightly so, that Union students should be full time intellectuals. Three cheers! Yet, who could possibly disagree with that? The problem is and must be how do we create an intellectual atmosphere on campus? Cer- tainly we could mess about with the array of J:ibe~al Learning courses, swttchmg things aroWld entirely, but this seems like a risky gamble. A better alternative would be if we could find an inexpensive, effective ~ethod of bringing intelligent discourse to the campus-and all the nicer if it didn't involve the tra~a of changing course requuements. What this campus needs is a stone. Yes, a very large stone in fact ... A granite cube-say: 3 feet, by 3 feet, by 4 feet would do-and on this stone Union's equivalent to the Minerva lecturers would stand and make their cases. Clearly: there are more than enough opinions and points of view on this c~pus, on a wide variety of subJects, to keep this stone soapbox very hot. All that needs to be done is to have these opinions and discussions brought into public view. Presently the Concordiensis is o~ premiere campus forwn on tssues, but since it only appears once a week, it suffers from tremendous limitations. Rebuttal, for instance, is something that is entirely lost. No matter how outrageous tne· lies are that appear in the editorial colunms, a person with a different point of view has to wait 7 days to be heard. Discussions on important topics could take weeks or months, if confined to the issues of Con- cordiensis, and this is longer than both debators and the campus audience should have to wait. If Union is to develop an \intellectual\ atmosphere on campus, opinions and viewpoints should be expressed publically on ANY DAY, or EVERYDAY. For my money, the stone seems like a very good in- vestment. Professor Under- wood would get the climate of intelligent discourse he would like, the Campus might even argue about curricuhun reform, and I could call Dave Beal on the carpet for the rubbish he wrote about me last week. Everyone would be better off.

Page 10 CONCORDJENSTS, October 24, 1985 COMMENTARIES The Right Approach? By JOY RUNYON Who ever thought a harmless issue like our education (the curriculum issue) would draw the masses out of their eozy shells of apathy? Sure, the shells have been cracked minimally in the past by distant issues like apartheid: safe issues, fights that can be lost without personal disgrace or won with a self-important \I knew I'd win this monumental battle.\ Unfortunately, it appears that the masses are responding to the curriculum issue the way a crowd gathers beneath a man threatening to jump off a lofty window ledge: The crowd isn't there to help prevent the potential suicide; no, the crowd thrills to see the danger and feel the tension. Such is the curriculum issue, Not enough people care about the issue per se. They thrill to observe the verbal war: Frank Gado versus everyone else. They want to see how visious it can get. God forbid anyone should get involved solely for the purpose of not letting our educational carpet get whipped out from under us or future Union generations. Ask yourself if you care; then ask yourself WHY you care. You cannot drive with your eyes closed; with your eyes perpetually closed, all you can hope to do is be a passenger. That was a secondary note. The primary issue to be dealt with is Professor Gado's sen- seless invective against Con- cordiensis and everyone else. You can tell a man smells defeat in the air when he can no longer argue rationally and must therefore resort to petty name-calling and other forms of pointless attack. First, the fact that he was ignorant of Professor Bill Zwicker's intent to publish the former's statement on the curriculum issue demonstrates that he certainly does keep himself uninformed. It is as thougr he attacks solely for the reason of attacking. Too bad Professor Zwicker blew Professor Gado's cover by exposing his ignorance. Woodward and Bernstein certainly would have known of Professor Zwicker's intent; they apparently refrained from shooting from the hip and from getting caught in self-initiated oblivion. Had Conc()rdiensis not printed his statement, he surely would have had a problem with that, too. Either way, Con- cordiensis loses. Second, Woodward and Bernstein-excuse me, I mean Raffaele and Ca:lderini, of course-made some very cogent replies to Professor Gado's gripes. They take issue with his sharp eye (and tongue) for mistakes, especially his complaint about the misspelling of his name. In the first place, worse typographical errors have been made in so-called \professional\ publications. Also, Raffaele and Calderini \wonder if Professor Gado hasn't blown the problerp. a bit out of proportion.\ Professor Gado apparently enjoys blowing things C>ut of propor- tion: God knows his ego has exceeded. all normal, human proportions, as he construes a type in his name a personal 'slight. The philosopher Lichtenberg suggested, \The fly that doesn't want to be swatted is most secure when it lands on the flyswatter.\ Professor Gado has adopted the cj.rriculum issue as his own purpose in life. While the issue is one of some gravity and importance, it is not a life vocation. Even more im- portantly, it is an issu~ that has two sides, and Professor Gado seems to be trying his dam- nedest to dominate tnat issue. His demagoguery is neither appropriate nor becoming. At the initial public debate on{his issue, Professor Gado found it not only his duty, but his destiny, to seek and personally destroy any opponents. No one on the sub-committee--the chairman included--spoke nearly as much as Professor Gado. At any hint of dissent, he was automatically on his feet, spouting aggressively and feverishly. Professor Gado asserts that one cannot expect a professor of mathematics to be effective in teaching the Freshman Preceptorial. This is dearly hogwash. lf be is so narrow- minded as to believe that the only literate peopl~ are English professors, perhaps he should emerge :from his artillery foxhold long enough to sit in on a Preceptorial ~class taught by someone other than himself. If he could ex::ert himself this much, he may be pleasantly surprised. The Freshman Preceptorial encompasses more than grammar, spelling, and sentence structure; that's \high schoolstUff.\ Rather, the Preceptorialis meant to teach a method of l.\easoning and something ()£ logic, while providing the student with experience in various genres of thought. Perhaps the Preceptorial serves not only the students, b11t also the professors through exposure to other fields. Wlly else would the reading list· include books about the Victorian period, Socratic philosophy, and Darwinism? Literacy and well roundedness is not tbe prerogative of whatever literati and in- telligentsia in which he has isolated himself. Whatever bitterness he is harbouring should not be allowed to surface in the determining of Union's philosophy of education. · For the sake of future generations, Let's approach this issue more rationally and ap- propriately. Let us not digress and wander onto inappropriate tangents such as Professor Gado has mat~aged to do. And let us hope Professor Gado gets <>ver the bitterness And let 11s hope Professor Gado gets ()Ver the bitterness this commentary will inevitably elicit, as least by_ttte time I find myself in one of his classes. Curricular Reforms Proposed By KA VEH SHEIBANI The purpose of a liberal arts college should be to graduate well educated students. A well educated person is one who writes well, is well read, well spoken, and now, with the great advent of technology in the twentieth century, one who has a good basic background in science. The students who are in the greatest danger of not possessing all these qualities are those who can afford the fewest electives. A good example is the student who majors in Engineering. Union tries to accomplish this goal with its liberal learning requirements. Courses are broken into six categories, excluding X courses which do not count as a liberal learning course. Students must take two courses in each category in order to fulfill their graduation requirement. However, in the case of an engineering student, this rule often defeats its pur- pose. Since engineering courses are very difficult and time consuming, stadents often resort to courses which are generally accepted as \gut\ courses (Stich qualifications do have their foundations). There are two faults here: these courses provide the students with a very basic knowledge, and more importantly, the student takes these courses not out of the desire to learn, but to fulfill. To fulfill his education? No, to fulfill his requirements. A point needed to be made here is that the responsibility to make a student well educated cannot be burdened completely on the professor. Rather such an end is largely the responsibility of the student. His interest and initiative are the most im- portant aspects. · A much better system will be one that requires, or at least allows a student to concentrate on two categories, apart from those in his major, and thus at least arrive at an intermediate level in those areas. If a student claims that he has no interest in any other fields other than his major, the reason is that his eyes have not been opened to any other fields, in depth. Such a system as proposed will make the student have to open his eyes and in(.J.uire. And he will be able to focus his eyes, rather than see a bl11rry image. It will encourage him to take a more active role in areas unrelated to his major. There will be fewer students vvho end up taking courses in ~hich they are not really very interested. For example, take an engineering student ~h() bas much interest in philosophy, very little in history, and who has taken three philos()phy courses. That , student will be much better off taking a fCJurth, hundred-level, course in philosophy, in ·which he has an interest, than taking an introdnctory history course in which be has little interest. College is the best opportunity we have to explore, learn, and get professional criticism. Union should help us always be aware of Sllch a simple basic concept, f()r- often it is these concepts that evade our eyes the most. Once the student achieves 11lis realization his responsibility is to take the initiative, aJJd the school's to help h4n develop it. The Pre-Health society is proud to present Dr. Charles Terrell as their first speaker of the year. Dr. Terrell will conduct a workshop entitled 11 Financing your medical-dental school education.\ Dr. Terrell is a nationafly recognized authority on the subject and has recently published a book. All .juniors and seniors considering careers in health related fields are urged to attend. WHEN: TUESDAY OCTOBER 22, 7~9 p.m. WHERE: SOCIAL SCIENCES Rm.l17 Arms Sale·· Opposed By JEFF MICHELS should be terminated im- mediately.\ Peres outlined a possible structure for direct Last Monday, the Reagan negotiations which included a Administration gave formal peaceful solution to the notification to Congress of an Palestinian issue. arms sale that would provide Just whim the Israelis are Jordan with 1.9 bitlion dollars further stretching out for peace., worth of U.S. advanced Jordan issues a response that weapons. \Jordan rejects any partial or In order for this sale to be unilateral settlement with prevented, Congress must Israel.\ Jordan further reaf- approve, within the next thirty firms its support of a plan days a resulution of disap- developed by Arab com1tries in proval. Even if such a Morocco, which called for an resolution is approved, Reagan independent . Palesinian state can still veto the resolution. led by the P.L.O. · Congress would then need a It is apparent that Hussein is two-thirds majority vote to not ready for immediate block the· arms sale. negotiations or recognition of It is the Administration's Israel as he led many to believe hope that Congress will see this during his recent visit to the sale its way and not vote for a United States. Such an arms resolution of disapproval. sale cannot be made to any Also this wek Israeli Prime Arab state that is not at peace Minister Shimon Peres ad- with Israel. dressed the United Nations and In the next thirty days it will proclaimed, \The state of war be up to Congress to clock this between Israel and Jordan arms sale before a great in· justice occurs. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ § PHI BETA KAPPA and the STUDENT FORUM § A. present a panel discussion: § ! Y \WHAT SHOULD THE U.S. ATEMPT TO § ACCOMPLISH IN THE UPCOMING U.S. -SOVIET § ARMS NEGOTIATIONS?\ ~ § Panel Members §·y § Professor Clifford Brown, Political Science § Professor Charles .. Gati, Political Science § l Professor William Martin, Chemistry § Professor J. Richard Shanebrook, Mechanical ~ Engineering ~ Wednesday, October 3.0th ~ § 8:00,p.m., Fox House Lounge § l College community invited. . Refreshmentswnl be served. · ~ ~..q,..q.~o,Q>~~o.Q><4h~~~~~~ 810 DEPT AND 810 CLUB PRESENT Defective Platelet Fibrogen Interaction in Canine Thrombopathia · Wadsworth Center for Laboratory Research James L. Catalfamo of NYS Dept. of Health in Albany Tues. 4:30 SS 115 The Student Forum '85-'86 Minutes Meeting: No.4, October 14,1985 Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bernell, S. Moss, A. George, J. Mountain, P. Virnich, M. Coleman, S. Ference,T. Dimmick, S. Liksky, M. Bradley, R. Allen, A. Carrel, G. Bolster, D. Cohen Members Absent: K. Keaveney, R. Gross, K. Siegel 1. The. meeting was called to order at 7:35p.m. 2. ~he minu.tes of the previous meeting were read and approved in a unammousvmce vote. Committee Reports: 3. Beth Bernell gave her report on the Finance Committee. They ap- proved the Idol fund raiser that was held, this morning, in front of the library. 4. Steve Moss have his report on the COC. A) The Riding Club and the Karate Club have submitted con- stitutions for approval. They will be available for viewing in Mrs. Marra's office this week. . B) Club status reports are due this Friday, 10/18/85. 5. Maureen Coleman reported for the SAC. The SAC had a meeting with Pierce Fitzgerald and Dave Wood to discuss campus securitu. Old Business: 6. The Pub Party, co-ordinated by Steve Lipsky, was a huge success. Plans to have it on a regular basis were discussed. 7. Plans for the Pep Rally are being finalized. New Business: 8. Each Forum member was assigned, by Chris Siler, to coordinate different realms of the Forum~ 9. A motion was madeto pay the City of Schnectady$50.00 for damages incurred to the voting machines that were used for last years elections. After some discussion, a motion to approve these funds was passed m unanimous voice vote. 10. Motion to adjourn was unanimously passed at 8:20p.m. Respectfully submitted, David Cohen 0 c - i

CONCORDIENSIS, Ot;tober 24, 1'985 PAISA MIS£R 113 Jar St., s-•'dw- .lldlal•forh- nl·llll .----.... Bring in coup~'\J.J.ill· - ... :complete Boutique D.resses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries Etc Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m •. • Thurs. 10:00 a.~.-9:0o p.m. Also accepting American ExDress - PERSONAL CH.ECKS ACCEPTED LAY-AWAY • We will hold your purchase with a small deposit We Also Do Alterations Page 11 <> ·f Robert Klein, an old te will be aoc1ear·in<:1 Theatre on October 25, at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are available at the Student Activities Box Office. JOIN THE UNION RID·ING CLUB Ride for Fun or I ntercollegiately In fact, we'll even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. That's in addition to paying for your tuition, requiredbooks and fees. It's all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And here is how it works! If you're selected f9r a Physician's Scholarship-from the Army, Navy, or Air Force-you're commissioned as an officer in the Reserves. While you're in school, you'll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received. • As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer's pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. You'll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technology. But most important, while you're in medical school we'll help pay the bills. For more informati~n. send in this coupon. There is no obligation. r v':!=:,~=.,\; , Mail this coupon-to: Armed Forces Scholarships, P.O. Box 2865 • I Huntington Station, NY 11746-2102 Checkuptothree:OARMY DNAVY DAIRFORCE 9007 Please print all Information clearly and cQmpletoly. I NamEL-Fi=•rst.,---------,,_,~\\':;;: 18 = 1 n 1 •;:;-. 81 -----,-c.=.,----DIMBie DFemale Address ______________ Apt. #---;::::;:::::;::::;;::::=;::::::; I City_;::;::::;:::;-;::;::::;::~::::;::::;:::::;::::::;State'-----;::::;:::;::::;:-;::23p I I I J I / Phone [ I I I DlJ L.-1 _,__,___.___,/ Soc. Sec. No. L-.1 ...I...._L! __,/ rn I I I I I I I I I Colleg Area Code Number ~t rn rn rn Grad:tion CODay rnYear I FieldoiStudY------------Date Mo Year L The information you voluntarityprov•cte Will be used for recru111ng purposes only. The more complete rt •s the better we .I can respond to your request. (Authonty to USC 5031 --------- Yes, We're Back •. .finally * Exper-t lnst•·uction * DISCOUNT RATES W•R•U•C * Group Rates Available For Union Students For Information about riding for fun, .group rates and~ discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBAY FARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus or Lorraine Marra in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES Office in Old Chapel < ~ ~ - / 89~7 FM Your Alternative Listening Station We have_ expanded our schedule in order to play more .of the newest music as well as your favorites. For Requests Call: x6151, x6154

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 - THE ARTS '0 :::r ;) .... 0 0\ \< 0 OJ < m Q \\' c 0\ m \\' Jeff Winters and Sandy Cook perform at Cabaret last Thursday night. Rock's Rising Star ByJOESUHRADE Contributor Yngwie Malmsteen. No, not a household name, but nonetheless one that gets at- tention and respect in musical circles around the world. Yngwie (pronounced Ing-vay) is a twenty-one year old Swedish guitar wonder, who has recently embarked on a promising solo career with two records released in the past year. \Marching Out,\ his latest, is presently in Billboard's Top 100 albums. Mahnsteen arrived in Los Angeles, California in February 1983 to find fame and fortune in a music world not often friendly to non· commercial artists. It was there he joined a local hard rock group named Steeler, playing the L.A. club circuit. Within weeks, after being scouted out by former U.F.O. leader Phil Moog and heavy-metal singer Ronnie Dio, Yngwie struck it rich. He and Graham Bonnet, former Rainbow and ·tht Michael Schenker Group for- med Alcatrazz. This was a move which not only polished Malmsteen's composing talents but gave him widespread recognition and a fanatical following among guitarists everywhere. Malmsteen and Alcatrazz gained · great popularity in Japan where Bonnet is extremely popular, and on the West Coast. Thirty-seven year old Bonnet has worked with a lineup of noted and talented musicians for years, including the Bee Gees, drummer Cozy Powell, keyboardist Jon Lord, Hendrix drummer Mitch Mitchell, Ritchie Blackmore and Russ Ballard. Bonnet's relationship with Malmsteen flourished at first. It took · them only six months to write, record, produce and release the first Alcatrazz albwn. Shortly after, th~ir age difference seemed to split them and Malmsteen left the group to be replaced by Long Island native Steve Vai (who is now collaborating with David Lee Roth incidentally). Malmsteen cut two records with Alcatrazz-\No Parole from Rock 'n' Role\ and \Live Sentence,\ and has recorded two solo albums-' 'Rising Force\ and \Marching Out.\ He appeals not only to the sophisticated metal crowd but to progressive and classical Rock fans. He is a dedicated classical enthusiast who lists Bach and Pagamini as his prime influences before Hen- drix, Blackmore, Yes and Jethro Tull. Malmsteen's band consists of a group of veteran \Bach and Rollers\ including Jethro Tull, and Robert Plant's drummer Barriemore Barlowe. His records are now released in the U.S. and abroad on the Mercury label and can be found in local record stores. Go out and pick up an Yngwie Malmsteen record and find out what this new sensation is all about. You'll be dazzled with his lightning-quick virtuosity and melodic solos set to an elec- trifying classical framework. - Cabaret • • • By STAFF Cabaret this past Thursday featured two guitar and vocal performances. First, singer and guitarist Jeff Winters teamed up with Sandy Cook for a tribute to the Grateful Dead, With an enthusiastic Delta Chi cheering section, Jeff and Sandy gave the large Union turnout quite a collection of Dead favorites. The duo's song selection was good, alternating some of the more familiar, standard Dead songs with a few lesser known Dead pieces. One especially big hit with the audience ;was \Sugar Magnolia.\ Jeff Win- ters' singing was good and both he and Sandy Cook seemed to.. put a lot of feeling into their performance. Act II followed a mass exodus from the crowd, but singer and guitarist Dave Provost handled it with a good sense of humor and proved well worth the wait. His selection for the evening was mellow but varied. He seemed to favor James Taylor. However, Neil Young's \Sugar Mountain'' was as successful as \Fire and Rain.\ Dead fans were treated to a solid rendition of \Friend of the Devil,\ while Eagles and America en- thusiasts were also able to enjoy· some infrequently heard favorites. , Provost and Jeff Winters delighted \Big Chill\ groupies when they paired up on \Good Lovin',\ Winters compliments other voices very well, and seems to possess a great deal of mtJsical versatility. Dave Provost showed confidence in his own voice by not trying to impersonate the big names associated with the songs in his act. He concluded his per- formance with one of his compositions which was a refreshing finish to a night of many old, familiar favorites. The big disappointment of the night was Cabaret's setup, which is much different from years past. The acoustics.in Old Chapel make the former Cabaret room in Carnegie seem like a veritable recording studio. The immense wooden · paneling which serves as the performers' backdrop creates a less than intimate setting. Two shows might also help, as the large crowd and cavernous room created ·a concert-like atmosphere. Apparently the night club ambience has gone the way of Alumni Gym, Car- negie and the old Phusical Plant. Needless to say, with Food Service in on the act, the cup does not runneth over. Seniors, being rationed their two beers and denied the traditional popcorn for the first time, find this a new and sobering experience. Though in this year of sacrifice on our ravaged campus, things could be worse. No doubt, even an Old Chapel Cabaret is better than none at all-especially with fine acts like last Thur- sday's. ~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~et ~ Union Concert Board e a in Association with ~ @ Proctor's Theatre ~ 5 present: t i Jean Luc Ponty ~ ~ Sat. Nov. 9-8 p.m. ~ ~ · tickets on sale soon ~ L-a~.~~·~~·~~·~~·~ ' THE UNION COLLEGE MOUNTEBANKS present in the Nott Memorial Theatre on New Club- Old Rocker Oct. 31- Nov. 1,2,5,7 ,8,9 ~..:----, Students $3 tickets on sale in the Nett Memoria I Box Office --...\1.1---~ By PAUL AUGHT Contributor J.B.'s Theatre, a new club in Albany, is bringing in some very talented groups, both new and old. Thursday, October 16 was the night that Nick Lowe and his Cowboy Outfit rode into town. With laid-back de- meanor and casual dress (blue-jeans and sneakers for three of the four members) one couldn't help but feel as if these guys had simply stepped out of the crowd and decided to play a few tunes. However, the crispness and fervor with which they delivered their combination R&B dance rock made it clear that these gentlemen were nothing but well-practiced musicians. The Group The Cowboy Outfit, Martin Belmont on lead guitar, Bobby Irwin on drums, and Paul Carrack (formerly the keyboardist for Squeeze) on piano-keyboards, is versatile enough to play country in- fluenced songs like \She Don't Love Nobody\ and also a Ska type version of Paul Carrack's \How Long.'' They played all types of songs: love songs to silly songs; and they played at all speeds, slow enough to slow dance to or almost too fast to dance to. The set featured six songs from their most recent. album titled, \The Rose of England.\ The other songs were chosen from either solo efforts by Nick Lowe or Paul Carrack or from the groups they were once members of-Rockpile and Squeeze respectively. After about five songs, the crowd was dancing and the band was having at least as much fun as everyone else. Nick Lowe more than once emphasized that he was there to have a good time and see to it that everyone else did too. This was evidenced by the fact that he was taking requests from the audience and played a few to everyone's pleasure. ''Tempted,\ preceeded by a few words of bitterness by Paul Carrack towards Squeeze, and \Cruel to be Kind\ by Nick Lowe were the songs best known to the crowd, but I think the most enjoyable songs of the evening were \Marie Provost,\ \I Knew the Bride,\ and \What's so funny 'bout Peace, Love and Understanding?\ \Marie Provost\ is a song about a woman who was killed by her DachsWld, \She was a winner who became a doggie's diruier.\ \I Knew the Bride,\ the single off \The Rose of England,\ was much better live than recorded. It sounds very much the same as when Nick Lowe recorded it with Rockp~!!~ fast and very danceable. \wnat'ssofunny ... \ is an Elvis Costello tune that closed the show. Nick Lowe has had a hand in some of Elvis Costello's albwns and he did Elvis justice with this rendition. \The Rose of England\ is an albwn full of really enjoyable songs to dance to or just sit back and listen to with the volwne most of the way up. This album proves that despite Nick Lowe's gray hair and age he can still get you out of your chair in a hurry like he could when he was ten years younger. In next week's issue I will review X and the Del Fuegos at J.B. 's Theatre as well as a · preview of some great new music coming to J.B.'s (The Alann, Adam Ant and more.\ Iron rusts from disuse, stagnant water loses its purity, and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigors of the mind. Leonardo da Vinci JosE Paul a lectw aboutt ofJoseJ the arc ground resear month! chitec' compli Born Rame' ternati workin his ca 1780's desigr natura create popull devoid used il natur;: Ran house! theme ting 1 chitec· his de enjoy .pure theref archit Ran wake which is kno his ac Germ He es on c cap a( terior desig1 In Amer financ workE Tt the dati1 catE rese \ed1 proj Nov .PI - *:ifW~i.~ .M~1~U~i~i · Mi4\fJ4 ::-:>>>:*%\1 ' ,_,,, ·\··· , _.,~ .. <:>:-~:··:-:::: ~:;:;::q~;:~:::s 1 --...·1

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, October 24, 1985 THE ARTS 0 OJ < ro G) .., c 0\ ro .... Jeff Winters and Sandy Cook perform at Cabaret last Thursday night. Rock's Rising Star By JOE SUHRADE Contributor Yngwie Malmsteen. No, not a household name, but nonetheless one that gets at- tention and respect in musical circles around the world. Yngwie (pronounced Ing-vay) is a twenty-one year old Swedish guitar wonder, who has recently embarked on a promising solo career with two records released in the past year. \Marching Out,\ his latest, is presently in Billboard's Top 100 albums. Malmsteen arrived in Los Angeles, California in February 1983 to find fame and fortune in a music world not often friendly to non- commercial artists. It was there he joined a local hard rock group named Steeler, playing the L.A. club circuit. Within weeks, after being scouted out by former U.F.O. leader Phil Moog and heavy-metal singer Ronnie Dio, Yngwie struck it rich. He and Graham Bonnet, former Rainbow and tht Michael Schenker Group for- med Alcatrazz. This was a move which not only polished Malmsteen's composing talents but gave him widespread recognition and a fanatical following among guitarists everywhere. Malmsteen and Alcatrazz gained great popularity in Japan where Bonnet is extremely popular, and on the West Coast. Thirty-seven year old Bonnet has worked with a lineup of noted and talented musicians for years, including the Bee Gees, drummer Cozy Powell, keyboardist Jon Lord, Hendrix drummer Mitch Mitchell, Ritchie Blackmore and Russ Ballard. Bonnet's relationship with Malmsteen flourished at first. It took them only six months to write, record, produce and release the first Alcatrazz album. Shortly after, th~ir age difference seemed to split them and Malmsteen left the group to be replaced by Long Island native Steve Vai (who is now collaborating with David Lee Roth incidentally). Malmsteen cut two records with Alcatrazz-\No Parole from Rock 'n' Role\ and \Live Sentence,\ and has recorded two solo albums-\Rising Force\ and \Marching Out.\ He appeals not only to the sophisticated metal crowd but to progressi.ve and classical Rock fans. He is a dedicated classical enthusiast who lists Bach and Pagamini as his prime influences before Hen- drix, Blackmore, Yes and Jethro Tull. Malmsteen' s band consists of a group of veteran \Bach and Rollers\ including Jethro Tull, and Robert Plant's drummer Barriemore Barlowe. His records are now relec:~sed in the U.S. and abroad on the Mercury label and can be found in local record stores. Go out and pick up an Yngwie Malmsteen record and fi.Jld out what this new sensation is all about. You'll be dazzled with his lightning-quick virtuosity and melodic solos set to an elec- trifying classical framework. Cabaret • • • By STAFF Cabaret this past Thursday featured two guitar and vocal performances. First, singer and guitarist Jeff Winters teamed up with Sandy Cook for a tribute to the Grateful Dead. With an enthusiastic Delta Chi cheering section, Jeff and Sandy gave the large Union turnout quite a collection of Dead favorites. The duo's song selection was good, alternating some of the more familiar, standard Dead songs with a few lesser known Dead pieces. One especially big hit with the audience was \Sugar Magnolia.\ Jeff Win- ters' singing was good and both he and Sandy Cook seemed to put a lot of feeling into their performance. Act II followed a mass exodus from the crowd, but singer and guitarist Dave Provost handled it with a good sense of hwnor and proved well worth the wait. His selection for the evening was mellow but varied. He seemed to favor James Taylor. However, Neil Young's \Sugar Mountain\ was as successful as \Fire and Rain.\ Dead fans were treated to a solid rendition of \Friend of the Devil,\ while Eagles and America en- thusiasts were also able to enjoy some infrequently heard favorites. Provost and Jeff Winters delighted \Big Chill\ groupies when they paired up on \Good Lovin','' Winters compliments other voices very well, and seems to possess a great deal of muskal versatility. Dave Provost showed confidence in his own voice by not trying to impersonate the big names associated with the songs in his act. He concluded his per- formance with one of his compositions which was a refreshing finish to a night of many old, familiar favorites. The big disappointment of the night was Cabaret's setup, which is much different from years past. The acoustics in Old Chapel make the former Cabaret room in Carnegie seem like a veritable recording studio. The immense wooden paneling which serves as the performers' backdrop creates a less than intimate setting. Two shows might also help, as the large crowd and cavernous room created a concert-like atmosphere. Apparently the night club ambience has gone the way of Alumni Gym, Car- negie and the old Phusical Plant. Needless ta say, with Food Service in on the act, the cup does not runneth over. Seniors, being rationed their two beers and denied the traditional popcorn for the first time, find this a new and sobering experience. Though in this year of sacrifice on our ravaged campus, things could be worse. No doubt, even an Old Chapel Cabaret is better than none at all-especially with fine acts like last Thur- sday's. ~~·~~·~~·~~·~~~~~ ~ Union Concert Board C a in Association with ~ ~ Proctor's Theatre ~ ~ present: ~ ~ Jean Luc Ponty i ~ Sat. Nov. 9-8 p.m. ~ ~ tickets on sale soon ~ L~~~~·~~·~~·~~·~ THE UNION COLLEGE MOUNTEBANKS present in the Nott Memorial Theatre on New Club -Old Rocker Students $3 tickets on sale in the Nott Memorial Box Office ByPAULAUGHT Contributor J.B.'s Theatre, a new club in Albany, is !>ringing in some very talented groups, both new and old. Thursday, October 16 was the night that Nick Lowe and his Cowboy Outfit rode into town. With laid-back de- meanor and casual dress (blue-jeans and sneakers for three of the four members) one couldn't help but feel as if these guys had simply stepped out of the crowd and decided to play a few tunes. However, the crispness and fervor with which they delivered their combination R&B dance rock made it clear that these gentlemen were nothing but well-practiced musicians. Tile Group The Cowboy Outfit, Martin Belmont on lead g.uitar, Bobby Irwin on drums, and Paul Carrack (formerly the keyboardist for Squeeze) on piano-keyboards, is versatile enough to play country in- fluenced songs like \She Don't Love Nobody-\ and also a Ska type version of Paul Carrack's \How Long.\ They played all types of songs: love songs to silly songs; and they played at all speeds, sl()W enough to slow dance to or almost too fast to dance to. The set featured six songs from their most recent album titled, \The Rose of England.\ The other songs were chosen from either solo efforts by Nick Lowe or Paul Carrack or from the groups they were once members of-Rockpile and Squeeze respectively. After about five songs, the crowd was dancing and the band was having at least as much fun as everyone else. Nick Lowe more than once emphasized that he was there to have a good time and see to it that everyone else did too. This was evidenced by the fact that he was taking requests from the audience and played a few to everyone's pleasure. \Tempted preceeded by a few words of bitterness by Paul Carrack towards Squeeze, and \Cruel to be Kind\ by Nick Lowe were the songs best known to the crowd, but I think the most enjoyable songs of the evening were \Marie Provost,\ \I Knew the Bride,\ and \What's so funny 'bout Peace, Love and Understanding?\ \Marie Provost\ is a song about a woman who was killed by her Dachsund, \She was a winner who became a doggie's dinner.\ \I Knew the Bride,\ the single off \The Rose of England,\ was much better live than recorded. It sounds very much the same as when Nick Lowe recorded it with Rockpile, fast and very danceable. \What's so funny ... \ is an Elvis Costello t.une that closed the show.Nick Lowe has had a hand in some of Elvis Costello's albums and he did Elvis justice with this rendition. \The Rose of England\ is an album full of really enjoyable songs to dance to or just sit back and listen to with the volume most of the way up. This album proves that despite Nick Lowe's gray hair and age he can still get you out of your chair in a hurry like he could when he was ten years younger. In next week's issue I will review X and the Del Fuegos at J.B. 's Theatre as well as a preview of some great new music coming to J.B.'s (The Alarm, Adam Ant and more.\ Iron rusts from disuse, stagnant water loses its purity, and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigors of the mind. Leonardo da Vinci [ I; i ' I ,: !, .~ I } ' ... !\ ! : Pau a lectt about of Jost the ar groun resea monU chitet comp: Bor Ram1 terna1 worki his c 1780': desig natur creat' popu devoi used natur Ra housE them ting chite' his d enjo: pure there arc hi Ra wake whicl is kn his ~ Gern He e on , cape; terio desi~ In Arne finar wod T the dat cat res \ec pro No' I - p jl a f; fl E f v f t

- • • d If e n 0 s s ·- s El ,f i. e '• 1 i r 1 :1 \ 1 l ) s CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page 13 Joseph Jacques Ramee: A Campus Father By ARTSSTAFF Paul Turner, class of '62, ·gave a lecture at Union on October 15 about the life and famous work of Joseph Jacques Ramee. He is the architect responsible for the ground plan of Union. Turner researched Ramee for six months and related the ar~ chitect's major ac- complishments in his tale. Born in Arden, France in 1764, Ramee was unusually in- ternational for an architect working around 1800. He began his career in France in the 1780's working on garden designs. Enamored by naturalism, Ramee sought to create the beauty of nature in populated areas otherwise devoid of nature's beauty. He used illusion to create artificial naturalism. Ramee began to design houses in 17.87, stressing his theme of simplicity and \get- ting back to basics\ in ar- chitecture. Although many of his designs were not used, he enjoyed experimenting with pure geometry and . was therefore a prophet of modern architecture. Ramee left France in the wake of the Reign of Terror which began in 1793. Not much is known about the specifics of his accomplishments while in Germany and later Denmark. He especially enjoyed working on country estates in all · capacities: architecture, in~ terior design and landscape design. In 1808 Ramee came .to America at the request of financier David Parish. He worked extensively in Northern New York. State for Parish developing buildings .for cities that were to be prosperous. He designed David Parish's house in Ogdensburg, New York, a picturesque little town which is situated on the St. Lawrence River. He designed another home for Parish at a site along the St. Regis River, which was later destroyed .by fire. Along with houses, Ramee designed several buildings for mining operations. · His work was abruptly halted at the onset of the War of 1812. The economy of the United States was severely depressed and Parish was forced to cancel future plans for bm1dings. After the war in 1816, Ramee designed a church in Antwerp, New York, using Gothic win~ dows. Once again Ramee was an innovator-the Gothic revival ii1the U.S. did not begin until the 1830's; Ramee designed landscapes and out- buildings for several influential people, including the Ogdens (Ogdensburg) and Duanes (Duanesburg). Ramee was an enthusiastic architect-landscape designer- interior designer who held noble ideals in his profession. His advocacy of simplification, use of pure geometry and use of Gothic style in his designs proved that he was an artist 'before his time. He was a romantic, naturalistic man who advocated to experiment with a combination of styles. He was a brilliant innovator. Though his design of Union was his most famous work, Ramee con- tributed his art in many im- portant and varied ways. I.E.F. Deadline The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-student-initiated research projects · and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on Monday, November4. . Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be sub- mitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Enginering . Building) on forms available there. THE ARTS Christy Mahon (Stephen Hamilton) suffers the experience of being fought over by two women in Synge's \The Playboy of The Western World\ in Albany. The P#aybo.y of the Western World Capital Rep Fall Opener By TOD DIMMICK Arts Editor Capital Rep has started its 1985-86 Season with a sterling performance of The Playboy of the Western World until November 10 at the Market . Theatre in Albany. The Capital Repertory Theatre has built a reputation of quality and hard~ work that has consistently resulted in higher sales over the past several years of its existance. A small, intimate place, the Market Theatre, which houses the Company, can fit only a bit over a hundred seats and a tiny, yet always intricate and captivating stage. In order to exist, the Theatre has to maintain a very high quality of acting to constantly fill the audience. Autumn in County Mayo, Ireland, is the scene for this 1907 masterpiece by playwright J .M. Synge. Through accents, religion and scenery, the lives and dreams of Irish peasantry come to life on stage. The act begins with Margaret Flaherty ordering clothes and dreaming about the future and great things. Setting :the tone, one becomes aware during the play that the driving force in these people's lives are just that; their dreams and their hopes for the great things that will be worth a whole year's talk at the village pub. Margaret (Jean .MeN ally) is only the first of many in the village who leap on the opportunity to touch greatness. Into this situation comes Christy Mahon, played by Steven Hamilton. Christy has killed his father, or at least so he says. When the others hear this, a strange perception of his deed takes place. Sud- denly everyone is calling him a hero, someone who has dared to break with customs and morals and· assert himself like no one has before. The ironic twist of interpretation is thrust home when Michael James (Frederick Walters), the barkeeper, says, \We'll be safe tonight, with a man who killed his father guarding the door!\ Christy, not expecting but obviously enjoying this reception, eventually decides to make the most of the situation. One of the funniest scenes is Christy surrounded by his admirers, trying to convince him that he should have killed his Dad even sooner. When a jealous man from the village tries to get Christy to leave the village and go west over the sea, the idea of the \Playboy of the Western World\ comes in. And so the action flows, with Christy's popularity and con- fidence growing and the whole place becoming more unsettled from the peaceful existance it had known before. Then, out of nowhere, the father who was supposed to be dead shows up at the door. I will leave it at that, but the ensuing con- sternation is worth seeing. A Fine Beginning \The Playboy of the Western World\ is a fine beginning to what should be a banner year for the ·capital Rep. The Company's reputation for quality theatre has certainly not suffered with this show, and their constandly growing support should keep them at the forefront of theatre both new and old. \The Playboy of the Western World\ will be there for several more weeks. For something really fun to do one night, make the trip to the Market Theatre. Student discounts are availabe on certain days, as well as a student rush policy for half- price tickets. it9rll SSlll6 Admission- $1.00 u,n,ion,coiti·eee, s,f,eake·rs ·Forum ',:··.,: .. ;P,re&enu RobertKietn at Proctors , roetors leaving at ·· · ~'~llind R icnmond

- - - 1d of ve in to es tis ·r- is a of ~s. 1e p, m ld ~r m tg m 1e a ro 1e IS ~e te te r- :tl ;h te r. ir 1e st .d n tr d n y r- a !r !r \ . e IS 1. ,e it y \ 1t IS IS d 1. n e k e n s n a .s ll It a N e [ r, i : I: l' ! ' I, t, .- ' I } \ ; , '; --4. -· .. ':\ I CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page 13 Joseph Jacques Rom·ee: A Campus Father ByARTSSTAFF Paul Tumer, cl'ass of '62, gave a lecture at Union oR October 15 about the life and famous work of Joseph Jacques Ramee. He is the architect responsible for the ground plan of Union. Turner researched Ramee for six months and related the ar- chitect's major ac- complishments in his tale. Born in Arden, Fran.ce in 1764, Ramee was unusually in- ternational for an architect working around 1800. He began his career in France in the 1780's working on garden designs. Enamored by naturalism, Ramee sought to create the beauty of nature in populated areas otherwise devoid of nature's beauty. He used illusion to create artificial naturalism. Ramee began to design houses in 1787, stressing his theme of simplicity and \get- ting back to basics\ in ar- chitecture. Although many of his designs were not used, he enjoyed experimenting with pure geometry and was therefore a prophet of modern architecture. Ramee left France in the wake of the Reign of Terror which began in 1793. Not much is known about the specifics of his accomplishments while in Germany and later Denmark. He especially enjoyed working on country estates in all capacities: architecture, in- terior design and landscape design. In 1808 Ramee came to America at the request of financier David Parish. He worked extensively in Northern New York State for Parish developing buildings for cities that were to be prosperous. He designed David Parish's house in Ogdensburg, New York, a picturesque little town which is situated on the St. Lawrence River. He designed another home for Parish at a site along the St. Regis River, which was later destroyed by fire. Along with houses, Ramee designed several buildiNgs for mining operations. His work was abruptly halted at the onset of the War of 1812. The economy of the United States was severely depressed and Parish was forced to cancel future plans for buildings. After the war in 1816, Ramee designed a church in Antwerp, New York, using Gothic win- dows. Once again Ramee was an innovator-the Gothic revival in the U.S. did not begin until the 1830's. Ramee designed landscapes and out- buildings for several influential people, including the Ogdens (Ogdensburg) and Duanes (Duanesburg). Ramee was an enthusiastic architect-landscape designer- interior designer who held noble ideals in his profession. His advocacy of simplification, use of pure geometry and use of Gothic style in his designs proved that he was an artist before his time. He was a romantic, naturalistic man who advocated to experiment with a combination of styles. He was a brilliant innovator. Though his design of Union was his most famous work, Ramee con- tributed his art in many im- portant and varied ways. I.E.F. Deadline The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foun- dation in two categories-student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ falls on Monday, November4. Proposals for student- initiated research projects must have the written approval Of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be sub- mitted to the Dean's Office (SlOO, Science & Enginering Building) on forms available there. October October 24th-University Jazz Ensemble and S~phouie Band, SUNY A Ballroom,& p.m. October. 24th .. November l(t;.PJayboy of the Western World. Capital Repertory Theatre, for info call462--4534. . October 25th-Ray Charles, Palace Theater, 8 p.na. . October 26~Manhattan Transfer, Palace Theater, 8 p.m. . October 26th~A Salute to Gershwin, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. · October 27th-Allen Mills Halloween Organ Concert, Proctor's Theater t 8- p.m. October 29th .. Jtoyal Whmepeg Banet, Proctor's Theater, 8 p.m. . ' October 31st .. Vienna Symphon~ Orchestra, Proctorts Theater, 8 p.m. · Photographic Ekhibit An exhibit of black and white photographs by Martin Ben~ jamin, assistant prufessor of art, will be displayed in the faculty lounge on the second floor of the Social Science Building beginning Homecoming Weekend. Working in a large 16 x 20 inch' • format, many of the photographs were taken with infrared filtn which :imparts a moody luminescence to the prints. The Social Scienee Division welcomes St\udents; faculty, and parents to view a sample of Professor Benjamin.' s rJghly innovative and personal images of light and life. The exhibit will run from Saturday, October 26, through Wednesday, November 27. THE ARTS Christy Mahon (Stephen Hamilton) suffers the experience of being fought over by two women in Synge's \The Playboy of The Western World\ in Albany. The Playboy of the Western World Capital Rep Fall Opener ByTOD DIMMICK Arts Editor Capital Rep has started its 1985-86 Season with a sterling performance of The Playboy of the Western World until November 10 at the Market Theatre in Albany. The Capital Repertory Theatre has built a reputation of quality and hard- work that has consistently resulted in higher sales over the past several years of its existance. A small, intimate place, the Market Theatre, which houses the Company, can fit only a bit over a hundred seats and a tiny, yet always intricate and captivating stage. In order to exist, the Theatre has to maintain a very high quality of acting to constantly fill the audience. Autumn in County Mayo, Ireland, is the scene for this 1907 masterpiece by playwright J.M. Synge. Through accents, religion and scenery, the lives and dreams of Irish peasantry come to life on stage. The act begins with Margaret Flaherty ordering clothes and dreaming about the future and great things. Setting the tone, one becomes aware during the play that the driving force in these people's lives are just that; their dreams and their hopes for the great things that will be worth a whole year's talk at the village pub. Margaret (Jean McNally) is only the first of many in the village who leap on the opportunity to touch greatness. Into this situation comes Christy Mahon, played by Steven Hamilton. Christy has killed his father, or at least so he says. When the others hear this, a strange perception of his deed takes place. Sud- denly everyone is calling him a hero, someone who has dared to break with customs and morals and ·assert himself like no one has before. The ironic twist of interpretation is thrust home when Michael James (Frederick Walters), the barkeeper, says, \We'll be safe tonight, with a man who killed his father guarding the door! \ Christy, not expecting but obviously enjoying this reception, eventually decides to make the most of the situation. One of the funniest scenes is Christy surrounded by his admirers, trying to convince him that he should have killed his Dad even sooner. When a jealous man from the village tries to get Christy to leave the village and go west over the sea, the idea of the \Playboy of the Western World\ comes in. And so the action flows, with Christy's popularity and con- fidence growing and the whole place becoming more unsettled from the peaceful existance it had known before. Then, out of nowhere, the father who was supposed to be dead shows up at the door. I will leave it at that, but the ensuing con- sternation is worth seeing. A Fine Beginning \The Playboy of the Western World\ is a fine beginning to what should be a banner year for the Capital Rep. The Company's reputation for quality theatre has certainly not suffered with this show, and their constandly growing support should keep them at the forefront of theatre both new and old. \The Playboy of the Western World\ will be there for several more weeks. For something really fun to do one night, make the trip to the Market Theatre. Student discounts are availabe on certain days, as well as a student rush policy for half- price tickets. ithThe • • • Mostly Mozart· The Mnstly Mozart Festival Orchestra, resident ensemble of New Yorkts Lincoln Center, will perform in Union College's Memorial Chapel at 3 p.m. Monday, Oct. 23 at 8 p.m. The concert is the third in this year's Schenectady Museum!Uniun college Concert Series. The Oct. 28 program will be an aU·Mozart one, . Piano Concerto No. 2.7 in &flat. K. 595; Violin Concerto No.4 in D1 K. 213; and the Symphonies No. 4U in G minor and in A minor, K. lGa. Tickets are at Student Ac- tivities-third floor Old Chapel. Film Committee Presents: This Weekend Oct. 25~27 7,9,11 SS016 Admission - $1.00 tickets on sale 1st floor Old Chapel Harrison Ford is John Book. Film Committee Presents: A Halloween Special When a Stranaer Calls Thursday October 31st - 7,9,11 SSOl6 Admission .. $1.00 Union College Speakers Forum Presents Robert Klein at Proc,tors Bus to Proctors leaving at 7:00p.m. behind Richmond

Page 14 CONCORI)IENSIS, October'24; 1985 ARTS Live concert at R.P.I.- Robert Ashley to peiform . t • Howard Jones ANew ·Music ·Theatre By BRIAN McKINSEY Contributor Anyone who was in at- tendance at the R.P.I. Fieldhouse last Tuesday evening witnessed a fine per- formance by one of today's hottest acts. Howard Jones put on an upbeat, lively show that had people dancing and bounding to the beat for a solid two hours. The card also featured Marshall Crenshaw, although he and his band did little more than \warm-up\ Jones and evoked little response from the crowd. brother Martin on bass guitar. Martin played in a mellow manner and contributed little to the whole impact of the, show. Back-up vocals were handled by Afrodiziak who added a soft touch to the already warm songs. Much credit must go to percussionist Trevor Morais, who was the backbone of the show; providing the intense beat of each song. It has been a while since seeing someone perform with as much enthusiasm as Morais. Last, but certainly not least, Jones is an amazing piano and keyboard player. He By PROFESSOR HILARYTANN Robert Ashleyis a composer, video a1tist, poet, performer, and storyteller. He will he presenting sections of his latest work, Atalanta (Acts of God), in c :I ... co 0 c :I L.. co >- .c 0 0 .c 0. Memorial Chapel, Friday, November 1st, at 8 :oo~ ; In All American Music John Rockwell says \A core of concerns has defined AsJ;lley's work: 'con- ceptual art,' electronic music, miniplalism, and a new kind of musical theatre . . . \ Ashley's \Songs from Atalanta\ Is being presented at Union as part of the New York State Council for the Arts' New Music Network Tour. Nine different groups are taking part, including the Western Wind Vocal Ensemble (at SUNYA, Saturday nignt, November 3nd) and the Art Ensemble of Chicago (at RPI, Sunday night, Novemb~r 3rd). The tour is scheduled throughout November and will present c.smcerts on many New York campuses from SUNY at New Paltz,. thl'Ough Cornell, to SUNY at Buffalo. Having Union be part of this , series is a real coup. Ashley is a pioneer in the development of large-scale., collaborative performance works. Already, his \opera\ for television, Perfect Lives, has become a classic with a very large following~a following drawn from jaz2;, rock, and classical musicians, as well as poets, video artists, and anyone connected to the avant-garde. Tickets for the performance are available in the Old Chapel ticket booth ($3 for students, $6 general admission), and will be available at the door the night of the concert. SEBASTIAN .INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT switched from one to the other throughout the show and even played a guitar synthesizer. HAPPEN. To be fully appreciated, Jones must be seen in concert rather than just on disc or in video. He is a performer in the truest sense utilizing acting, lighting and singing to deliver an awesome performance. The mood of each song was further enhanced by the theatrics of mime · Jed Holle. One of the more impacting songs of the show was \Hunger for the Flesh,\ a cut from Jones' latest albmn \Dream Into Action.\ An eerie, ominous feeling was created by a serpent (Hoile) slithering about a smog covered stage. This tune contrasted the rest of the songs which were energetic Jind uplifting. Considering, acoustically, that a hockey rink is one of the worst places for a concert, the music was very uncolored and Jones' voice came across quite clearly. Near the end of the show, Jones slipped into Cream's \Sunshine of your Love\ for a few bars. Screams immediately rang from my mouth as others around me stared in wonder. It is a shame nobody ever heard of Eric Clapton, but the audience did consist mainly of younger people. Yet it is these same young people Jones sings to in most of his music. Even in the face of problems that confront today's youth, Jones' per- formance was enough to make even the gloomiest person leave with some feeling of euphoria. Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton S.t. 382-7956- Student Discounts In the past, Jones has been known to put on one man shows. However, this evening he was accompanied by several band members. Least energetic and most disappointing was Jones' STUDENT SPECIALS with Teresa,_ Marcie and Gari onlv! * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebastian hair care products. 25% off . retail with student I D. ~ ~ ~.~~!:•o~-.~!?s~~~~!:!!~Y Look no further. Its The WRUC TOP 8.97! This is the elite group of records that received the most play on WRUC's. turntables this :past week. Commit this listing to memory. Impress acquaintances by refernng to it at cocktail par- ties. You can actually influence the outcome of next weeks chart by requesting your favorite new music at 370-6151. Position Artist 1. TheAlann 2. Untouchables 3. Thompson Twins 4. Talking Heads 5. 10,000 Maniacs 6. R.E.M. 7. TheCUre 8. A-HA 9.97. Prefab Sprout Album Label Last Week Strength~IFUS--4 Wild Child-· MCA-5 Here's To Future Days-Arista-8 Little Creatures-8ire-2 The Wishing Chair-Elektra-7 Fables of Reconstruction-IRS- The Head on the Door-Elektra-1 Hunting high And Low-WB- Two Wheels Good-EPIC-8.97 Program Notes: Listen for WRUC's Jazz Spotlight albwn on our daily Jazz show·from 1 to 4 p.m. . .. Listen for your chance to win tickets to shows at J.B.'s Theatre including The Alarm on November 1st ... The Sunday night 6:15 news is now Thursdays at 9 p.m .... The WRUC Top 8.97 is aired track by track every Wednesday at 9 p.m. -compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director STUDENT ENVIRONMENTAL ALLIANCE For more information contact Meserve 382-9147 Meet us, for great conversation • every Monday, 12:30 at Hale House Spanish Table -

• ....; - CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page 15 ·Ski Mount Snow, Vermont for $15 per day. Purchase a MOUNT SNOW 6 .. PAC for $90 and enjoy six days of big mountain Vermont skiing on any Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday (non-holiday) throughout the 1985~86 ski season. Why conquer hills when you can challenge a mountain? Located in easy to reach southern Vermont, Mount Snow boasts 12 lifts (a summit gon~ .· dola, 5 triple cpairs, 6 double chairs), 57 trails, 1700 vertical feet and ' 80% snowmaking. · · Purchase a 6~ PAC a,t the S~ason Pass · Office with a valid college picture I.D. The 6-PAC is non~transferable. ~ount 91h1tu VERMONT Mount Snow Ski Resort MountSnow,Vennont05356 'For more information call (802)464 .. 8501. For the latest ski report call (802)464 .. 2151. · · _ Union College Institute of Administration & Management Colloquium ·william Burns, Vice Chairman and C.S.O. NYN EX Corp. ''Divestiture Reviewed: What . Has Been the Effect?'' October 24 • 3:45 p.m. Room 312, Bailey Hall . Don't forget to tune into the ''Dutchmen Sports Network'' for Homecoming Footban Action Union vs. the Williams Ephmen Gametlme 1:30- Pregame 1:00 Start Your Saturday off with \Countdown to Touchdown\ 12:30p.m. on WRUC- 89.7 FM NEXT SATURDAY: OUR FIRST FOOTBALL/HOCKEY DOUBLE HEADER E = a 0 ..... ... ut ... • = J! ., t..t \' c ..... CD CD fQ .¥ .c CD ~ \' e. ·- CD ~ ~ iJ ... ... = Ul a Q i CD 6 .. a> . ....... -· ... -- uz c=e a:a~ 11.1 .... =ec Oz uo ... --

Page 16 CONCORDIENSI~ October 2'4; 1985 FINANCIAL AID -The U.S. Air Force is of- fering the College Senior Engineering Program for the 1986-87 academic year. The program entitles selected engineering students to a wide variety of military entitlements and benefits including a monthly salary of $1,000 for up to 12 months of their senior year. To qualify for the CSEP individuals must be U.S. citizens, meet certain Air Force physical and academic qualifying test requirements, and must not be beyond 30 years of age. For more information concerning the SCEP or other officer programs call 1-800- USAF-USAF or write: 3516 USAFRSQ-RSOO, Stewart Army Subpost, Newburgh, NY 12550-9999. FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS {Contact Career Development Center for more info.) -The Coro Foundation is looking for men and women with a demonstrated leadership capability and a dedication to public affairs. Each year Coro awards post-graduate fellowships for the study of the interrelationships between the public\and private sectors. A representative of the Coro Foundation will be on campus November 12 to interview for the 1986-87 Fellowship year. An information session will be held on November 11 at 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. Interested students may sign up for interviews before November 7. _;The Minnesota Public Interest Research Group (MPIRG) is a non-profit student based organization. MPIRG offers internships in legislative lobbying, research, organizing, and specific projects. Interns become prepared to be effective citizen advocates. Academic credit is possible. -Theatreworks-USA is looking for college graduates for nine month full-time in- ternships. 'The program provides the intern with a broad entry-level in arts ad- ministration. Stipends are available. -Massachusetts Fair Share offers summer internships which can also be used for academic credit. Interns become involved in state and local political processes. Jobs are available in Boston, Lynn, Northampton, Worcester, and Cape Cod. -Public Voice for Food and Health Policy needs interns throughout the year. Interns must have excellent writing and research skills. An interest in food and health policy is needed. Applicants must have junior or senior level in government and-or public policy. ~The D.C. Symposia Internship Pr'l.gram at the Washington Center has full- time internships. Interns are undergraduates and graduates who come in contact with ac- complished professionals. Internships in all areas available. The Symposia consists of two to three week conferences on today's careers, trends, and issues. -The National Endowment for the Arts offers fellowships and internships. Thirteer1 week fellowships are offered for managers of arts organizations. Internships are offered in the areas of arts, government, and public management. -The U.S. Department of State offers swnmer and school year internships. Interns will be involved in research, preparing reports, working in computer science, and assisting in law cases. Academic credit available for school year. Summer internships are paid. Deadline for summer is November 1, 1985. -The Washington Post offers summer internships for college juniors and seniors. An interest in journalism, writing ability, newsDaDer exDerience, and typing · skills needed. Do you play an instrument?. If so, the UNION COLLEGE CONCERT BAND May be for 'you. Drop a line in Box# 1945 3rd Annual Fall Student . PHONATHON Mon., Nov. 11 & Tues., Nov. 12 5:00 • 9:·30 p.m. Lower Lounge - Hale House Dinner 5:00. Calling begins 6:00 Sign up sheets posted in residence halls. RSVP Annual Fund Office by Nov. 1 with your team- x6174. PRIZES * FUN * FOOD 4 'to a team • HURRY ....J st come, 1st serve basis HE.LLO! i\-1\S lS you 5A\< A N AI<..W 1 Dot-l'T S££. WHV yovl'. MASSf\ MAN A IT I\ C. \<.E.f? 'y 0 tJ you'R~ iELliNf:. SfEAkiNG! IN '(OUR. ROOt'\ . Mf.. iti\S .•. ~0 LAST NlGHT? ~~ \ CJ- y,'//) . . I I } .D£A\N I Dti'IN J) D£i\r.J 1\1 AsS t=\!·'0 !Ill' Mf\SSAMDLit MA:ssAMOLA, J _\ l· - !'f WftS f'r..CBft!SLY -n-1£. [\ \3~-t\ AND PANTIES; Hf.Y - f CAtv CALL wAY YoU LJ£RL H0\-1 ? I I wouL.b · yov wHI\-r.Wt.R t Df..t.SSEJ:1! wl-ti\T w~€ \11\Q( ATTf\c.l<£..1) YoU LJANT.! Ok~Y 1 lSA~~ Yoll Wt=:.ftR.ING? -roc; You L-lfil.t... Ll STf.rJ - wtiV J>OtJI ' dJ --r~PtMP! · Y<lU TRY -r1-11S c.Hf\.t\ADt. · I tB oul ON f'RE.SMO! ; ~ ' . f)'ti'l~uf! t>EI'IfJ ~ D£AN ' 1\1!1SSAMo MA ~sA 1'110 l..i\ . MAS5A MOI..fli 1 \ Application deadline is November 1, 1985. ~New York Public Interest Research Group, NYPIRG, offers legislative ·and jour- nalism internships. Legislative interns are involved in research, writing, and workshops. Application deadline is November 15, 1985. Journalism interns write newsletters and organize conferences. Application deadline is November 1, 1985. -The AFS International- lntercultura:I Program offers academic and summer in- ternships. Internships are in the areas of Finance, Public· Relations, Marketing, Fun- draising, etc. Applicants must be at least college sophomores · in the New York area. Applications must be submitted by October for Spring in- ternships. SCHOLARSHIPS -Delta Delta Delta an- nounces its forty-third Service Projects Scholarship com- petition. Competition is open to all full-time undergraduate women not yet in the senior year. Winners of local $500 awards are eligible for con- sideration for four $1,000 national Zoe Gore Perrin scholarships. Applicants for 1986 awards: submit ap- plication form to the Director of Financial Aid by December 1, 1985. Contact Magda Mininberg, Financial Aid Office for ap- plications and more in- formation. -U.S. Navy offers qualified juniors and seniors careers in the Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program with a $1,000 a month living allowance and full Navy benefits upon graduation and appointment into the service. Pick up an information card on the bulletin board in Becker Hall. -The New York State Education Department an- nounces a new series of com- petitions for 50 Regents Health Care Scholarships in medicine and dentistry and 15 Regents Professional Opportunity Scholarships in chiropractic, dental . hygiene, optometry, physical therapy, podiatry, and -- I IT Wf\SNT ME! -~ \ \;~ . t; j)J;;f\f'J Mf6S\M.1LI'\f .l 0\1! . . . ) I M so ~RY, . FRf.SIDt.!')T t<\0~~\S J Y6\JI<. VOk:£. SoLIND..> •.• vi-I .•. Dlf~tNT 1 ov+:R 1\'\-1~ PtldtJe.. ••• <.) J.-l. •. I \'~\( f)EAN t'1As$At-\C ' ..J 1 veterinary medicine. These. new scholarships were created by 1985 legislation primarily to increase the number of minoritY-group professionals practicing in New York State. Legal residents of New York State who enroll or will be enrolled in approved programs and who agree to a service commitment are eligible to apply for these awards. Separate competitions are currently being administered for both the 1985-86 and the 1986- 87 academic years. Eligible candidates may apply for both competitions. Award recipients of a Health Care Scholarship will receive $1,000 to $10,000 a year for up to four years of study. Professional Oppor.tunity Scholarship recipients will receive $1,000 to $5 1 000 a year for up to· four years of study. Please contact Magda M. Mininberg in the Financial Aid Office-for applications and more information for these scholarships. -The Society- for. the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering ( SAMPS) announced the contitmation of its annual scholarship program that this year will offer eighteen one-thousand dollar awards to undergraduate ~tudents. In order to be considered for these awards, the student must be formally recommended by his or her advisor or department head. Although the student must be matriculating in a subject related to Materials and Processes, the actual major may be in a non-engineering science, i.e. physics. All ap- plications must be postmarked by February 1, 1986. Applicants also receive a free .year's subscription to· the · SAMPE journal. . Contact Magda Mininberg in the Financial Aid Office for applications and info. -The Subcouncil on · Research and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty · research and scholarship ac- tivities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Kaplan's Office (8100). The deadline for submission of proposals is Monday, November 4. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Kaplan. -Campus Ministry Hosts Tom Lewis '2G-Friday, October 25 at 12:30 p.m. Students are invited to Hale House Dinin'g Hall to chat with Union Alumni '26 Tom Lewis who has had a distinguished career in advertising and. broadcasting. -Buy your own lunch or brown bag . -Homecoming Chapel Service-sunday, October 27 at 10 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tom Lewis '26 will be the speaker and a reception will follow in Milano Lounge. ~Newman Folk Group-All -singers and musicians in- terested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar PaUl at 6:30p.m. in the Church to rehearse. -Newman Meeting & Social-Monday, October 28 at 8 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room in Whit'aker -House. Please use back door. -Halloween Visit to Hospital-Thursday, October 31. Anyone interested in dressing in costume and visiting the sicl Old Ch: -Kil Anyone Pamel~ Evan.g contact 2275. -TUI Math- school and Fr you ar Progr~ tereste1 Emery L -Tll pres en Oct. p.m. Strang Ticke1 Stud ell Chape ----- -Ht count~ and 0 Conta Vicki€ -F• Grem dedsn well; mech: rust. 1 .....

CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page 17 the sick may meet at 7 p.m. at Old Chapel Plaza. -Kindergarten Aides~ Anyone interested in al)sisting Pamela Brown at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Tina Sciocchetti, 37o- 2275. -Tutors for Computer Math-8till needed at St. John's school for Tuesday, Thursday and Friday 10:15-11:00 a.m. If you are familiar with Basic Programming and are in- terested, please contact Jessica Emery at 393-5331. -The Film Committee presents: Oct. 25-27: Witness at 7, 9, 11 p.m. and Oct. 31: When a Stranger Calls at 7, 9, 11 p.m. Tickets $1.00 available at Student Activities Desk in Old Chapel. CLASSIHEDS -Help Wanted: Kitchen and counter worker for Hale House and Old Chapel Dining rooms. Contact: Satish, David, or Vickie at Hale House. -For Sale: 1973 AMC Gremlin. Tires good, stud- dedsnowtires negotiable. Runs well; new brakes; in good mechanical shape; minor body ru~~.. Call ~~Q, CJ.~ 382-8186 .. 0 .B.Y.o. s? ) -Apartment f~r Rent: $300 plus utilities; 31:)r; Ave. A; near college; available 11-1. Call372- 3565 .... or 458-7400. Ask for AI. ~Experienced waitress wanted for part-time weekend help (Jfriday, Saturday and Sunday). Apply in person at Glenville Queen Diner, 210 Saratoga Road (Route 50 near K-Mart in Glenville). Telephone 399-3244. -Student interested in collating, bindery in printing trade, packaging cartons, etc. $5.00 per hr. Please contact Benchemark Printing, 31 Lafayette St., Schenectady, N.Y. Ask for Bob K. at 393•1361. Within walking· distance. -Reliable & . dependable student interested in child care and light housekeeping - 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. Monday thru Thur- sday. Own transportation needed. Location Upper Union St. area - Salary :negotiable. Please contact 346-0192 after 6 p.m. ~Bindery, printing assembly person-various jobs in finishing area of offset printing co.-will train for position. $4.00 per hr. part-time position. Contact Eric Hugo Printing, 1085 Catalyn St., 374-0562 and ask for Gene. PERSONALS . . Happy birthday Kelly! 0 ~ 0 Love, Lisa ••• :t'- . '! To the cast, crew and dancers of A Chorus Line-A four-star performance. You're the ONES! We love you Fran and Lisa To The Italian Screaming Meemie: \You say it's YOUR BIR- THDAY well you better have a GOOD time.\ Luv Alw~ys, The Red-headed . Screaming Meemie Dear Mr. Gripe, · I'm in love with one of your consultants. He has brown hair, brown eyes, and a baby face. My only \gripe\ is that he is constantly mistaken for someone with scales. A Concerned VAX user The Ziac Foundation is sponsoring the 1st Annual Proctology Seminar to be held in the Ramada Inn, Schenec- tady. Featuring munchies, munchies, munchies and complimentary Vaseline. Dear Rudolfo Gomzales- Your father called. Your _house was lost in the flood, your dog Pepe is dead, and don't try to call home because you don't have one. I'm so sorry. -The· Wrong N).llllber Hey Jessica, I'm still waiting for you. Will you ever discover me? Y.S.A. You're not happy!!!! Why don't you give us a smile? \ LOAN AGE~TS WANTED: If you enjoy helping in- dividuals and firms solve their financial needs, and at the same time earn yourself a legitimate and con- scionable fee for your service in joining borrower and . lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending (after we have taught you our system), without disturbing what you are doing now for a living, then this could be the answer to your dreams and ambitions. (Please do not apply~ if you have any objections to becom.ing a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- performance fee is required, refundable fro.m first completed .loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 million, thereafter5%, $1 billion and over add 2112%). wr.ite in strictest confidence,· or if in a hurry, call 1-203- _ 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. -Our 50th Anniversary 1935-1985:- \Eve\-Have a great time at Colgate with Adam. Do all the things I wouldn't do ... so you can give llle a full report! -8 Ron Davis- I love you in- credibubbles! K.E.G. (U-Mass) Chris-Wild Woman don't get the blues! No. 5 was right-we needed Steroids! I look forward to seeing you all in the winter until then-I'll miss you guys! LOVE, YavStroke SIGMA PHI: Someone is stealing one of your kegs! ... or was it a snare drwn??? Dear K.A.Q. I enjoy your hugs and kisses, and especially love your companionship. Love, Toasted Almond Given: A, B, C, D, ... E (&F) You can have A&B, B&C, A&D, or B&D. You can't have A&C, but can you have B&D???How was it for U??? Are you: A) Unaffected, B&C} Unnoticed, D) Unconscious, or E) Unin- vited??? Sorry F, you were Unplanned, maybe next time. Hey Kimbo-Happy 19th! and hang in there until tomorrow night. -R,A,A,M,M That sure as heck was no lapsy Dapsy test! ! ! ! ! Oh well, Medical school was a pipe dream anyway. Research is where it's at anyway! \The vastly imaginative world of William Shakespeare is greatly endowed with illusion and grandeur and encompasses a: healthy combination of fact and fiction.\ Hawk Haftel86 Myyyyyy Frendddss, that is how youse does it Gives mes a breakzz- -An ex-BIO major Oh my God Norman, she MUST be pregnant! Isn't she too short to get pregnant dear? OH! NORMAN Happy Birthday Annette. Love, Pozzy Bear Welcome back to Union Stef. Have a great weekend. Love, Lisa and Joanne Hey Varsity Oarswomen (and Coxswain)-Thanks for the amazing Charles experience; Get psyched for the spring! -No.5 To one and all who came to , cheer us on: Thanks for all your ·support. Next one is for you! -Women's Varsity Crew Ted-don't think that all your help this weekend went un- noticed. We all appreciated all you did. Thanks again. ~Women's Varsity Crew Hey you guys, don't forget me in the K -cubed party. I'll bring the pictures! -Lizzard T.E.-how did you enjoy Saturday night with 9 \swinging\ girls? TIRING WEEKEND, HUH? WV8(WV9) tftnion ctoUtgt ..f'atultp ~oUoquium Bruce L. Reynolds Associate Professor of Economics Is China Changing? Tuesday, November 12 at 4:30p.m. SSOI6 Coffee & Tea at 4:30p.m. All are welcome to attend! IDOL COVER CONTEST Drawing or Photographs Welcome $50 Prize for the • Winner Submit your work and $1 entry fee to the English office by Oc- tober 30. For more info call X6480 Spectacular StU Fashions 10% Student Discount Along with our incredible selection of the finest alpine and cross country ski equipment, we carry the area's largest selection of designer ski fashions. Top name fashions for men, women & children on sale now. It's one thing to ski like a pro, but quite another to look like one. Come in and see us now! 346-7293 1901 Slate St Schenectady

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 SPORTS- Soccer Triumphs • • • Continued from page 19 result, they were forced to shuffle players into positions they didn't normally play. Senior co-captain Grant Foreman played sparingly, becaus~ of his injury. The of- fensive attack was lead by Tewksbury. His first of two goals was unassisted, yet it was his second goa:l which the team will be talking about for a long time. From twenty yards out, Tewksbury fired a cannon into the opposite side of the net for a great goC\1, and the game winner. Doug Wilk, too, had a nice shot in the first half. Overall, the Dutchmen should be commended on this effort as they overcame some very difficult problems to defeat a tough team. The game against Platt- sburgh was, on the other hand, a different kind of effort altogether. Both goalies played great games (Laduke in the first half, Tragasser. in the second) for the Dutchmen, as Although Plattsburgh is not among Union's more difficult competition, the rain forced the contest on to the turf; a surface the boaters are not accustomed to playing on. But, like the in- jury problem of previous games, this challenge, too, would be overcome. Steve Hartman collected three teiTific goals in this effort. He drove two home in the first half, and added his third and game's final goal-in the second. He, however, was not alone. Tewksbury and Bobby Crandall each had a goal of their own to help the Dutchman past Plattsburgh, Also in this game, the team saw the return of Adam Falk at halfback and Rob Mohlar, who incidentally played a terrific game, at fullback. Looking ahead, Union has a week off to prepare for what is assured of being a very tough but exciting five games in nine days. This booter extravaganza is kicked off under the lights on October 25, at Rochester. One can-assert that thiS battle will be very interesting. Not only is Rochester a tough team, but also the game will be played on Astro turf. Two years ago, the Dutchmen lost to Rochester on the turf and as a result, nearly lost their bid to the NCAA tournament. Thus, it seems that the rain during the Plattsburgh game may have proved to be helpful as it gave the Dutchmen some practice for their up- coming Rochester match. J'he next home game is Monday against division 1 Colgate. Urlien has defeated the volunteers two times in as many as two years and one can only hope that they will beat assistant coach Jay Guinn's alma mater, for a third time. As one Dutchmen put it, ''If the team stays healthy, there should be no reason why we don't get into the NCAA tour- nament, and then, we'll do what we can to bring the National Championship home to Union College.\ Crew Rows Strong By GEORGIA SULLIVAN and ANNE MAUBA:USSIN The Head ofthe Charles is the largest 0f the .several \Head\ regattas held In North America each fall and being the oldest is sometimes is known as the \Daddy of 'em all.\ This past weekend Union sent their women's varsity eight con- sisting of Liz Stoller (cox- swain), Georgia Sullivan, Karen St. Germain, Colleen Quinn, Anne Mauboussin, Jenny Lane, Lisa Clark, Stephanie Hirnak, and Karen Stash to Boston. Despite the fact that through a lottery system, the crew was selected to row in the Cham- pionship Division with such schools as Harvard (Radcliffe), Princeton, Dartmouth, Yille, Brown, etc., the crew chose to compete anyway. When Union matched their race- time with those of the Club Division, they found themselves ahead. of Florida Institute of Technology, Hamilton, Bucknell, Fordham, Skidmore, Merrimac Rowing Club and seconds behind the Amherst Crew. It will be Schools of this caliber that Union will be competing with in the spring. With the edition of Marjorie Dwoskin, women's Head Coach, along with continued alumni and student support and a satisfying performance at the Head of the Charles, the Union Women's Crew will certainly be one to contend with in the spring. Athlete of the Week Field Hockey in Playoffs I Sop::::::::.: Jim LaFrance captures this week's athlete of the week honors as the football team trounced -Coast Guard by a score of 49,-24. The 5'8\ 160 lb., second year man has been quite a success story this season for the Dut- chmen. In this past Saturday's game, the Oxford, CT native had eight catches for 144 yards including a 19-yard touchdown grab. Throughout the season, LaFrance has been Union's top receiver. In six games, he has 31 catches for 513 total, and three touchdowns. This season has provided LaFrance with his first starting opportunity and he has certainly made the most of it in tandem with quarterback Mike Gargiulo. LaFrance's personal goal for the season is to break the. single season By SID and Sports Staff Union College's field hockey team ended the 1985 regular- season with four-straight shutout victories to earn a berth in this weekend's New York State Association of Inter- collegiate Athletics for Women Tournament. The 8-4-1 Lady Dutchmen are seeded fifth and will meet Oneonta in an opening-roWld game on Friday seeded fourth. For coach Robert, this is her first tour- nament berth since taking over the prog;ram three years ago. The eight wins puts the Lady Dutchmen well within reach of the school-record nine victories set in 1978 and tied ·in 1980. The young Dutchwomen, with only three seniors, have had a very up and down year, will take a four-game win 'streak against Oneonta. Union beat RPI (5-0), Siena (1-0), Russell Sage (5-0), and Potsdam (1-0) during that streak. saves while Becky Ryan tallied a goal in each half. Junior Lyllian Tyree scored Union's lone goal with the assist going to senior Julie Fitzsimmons. Tyree is Union's se,cond-leading scorer with five goals and five assists while Fitzsimmons is third with six goals and an assist. A victory by Union puts them into Saturday's 5:30p.m. semi- final game against the William- Smith--Hamilton winner. An opening-round loss by the Lady Dutchmen forces them into a loser's bracket game at 8:30 a.m. against the William-Smith~ -Hamilton loser. Wide receiver Jim LaFrance receiving record at Union held by Rich Swan '69 who totaled 735 yards in 1967. LaFrance is a mechanical engineering major and a brother at Delta Upsilon. Congratulations to Jim LaFrance. Senior Cheryl Washburn has been the offensive standout for Union all year long. In the last four games, Washburn has scored six goals. She had one against RPI, Siena, and Pot- sdam, and tallied three against Russell Sage. Overall she leads the team with 13 goals and three assists and shows 21 goals for her four-year varsity career. Men's Rugby Victorious Continued trom page 20 c 0 .c 0. Sophomore goalie Jean Monaco has been outstanding this year. She has given up just 24 goals in 13 games while posting five shutouts. Overall, Monaco has recorded 114 saves in her second season in net. out to Konlian who drove his way into the try-zone to win the game. Bill Magnota played an excellent game in the fullback position. His defense and superb · pWlts were one of the reasons for Union's success. Q en Head Coach Charlyn Robert at noon. The entire tournament will be held at the University of Rochester. \I am so proud of these women,\ said third-year coach Charlyn Robert. \I knew we had a chance to qualify for states when we opened preseason camp back in Sep- tember. The women have worked very hard all year and have truly earned a spot in this tournament. I'm excited and I know they are as well.\ This marks the third time in the 10-year history of the sport at Union that the Lady Dut- chmen have been invited to the prestigious state tournament. In 1979 the squad was seeded first and in 1980 the team was Union's defensive support of Monaco has also been excellent this year. The Lady Dutchmen, who gave up 386 shots in 14 games last season, have allowed just 168 shots this year. Offensively, the Lady Dut- chmen have put 348 shots on net. The game against Oneonta will be the second meeting between the two teams this year. On October 2, the Lady Dutchmen dropped a 4-1 decision in Schenectady. Oneonta, which led 1-0 and the half before Union tied the game at 22: 53 of the second half, struck for three-straight goals. Oneonta held a slim 21-20 shot advantage with Monaco recording 14 saves. Oneonta goalie Laura Milewezik had 18 Be a part of Although they won the game, Union suffered the most injuries yet this season. Both John Friske and Dave Blee will not be seeing any more action this season-a definite minus to the A-side. And scrummer Jeff Albrecht ieft the field with blood dripping down the side of his face after being cut over his right eye. Union is lucky there were only two injuries that were serious enough to sideline players for the duration of the season. The Killer B team consisted of a mix of Union and Syracuse players during their Oneonta matchup due to a ~hortness of Union B-team players. The Killer B's won by a score of 10-4. Steve Delano was the hero this Union College Hockey!! Join the Skating Dutchmen Pep Band time, as he added two more try's to his season total. His first was a brilliant run. Delano dashed 60 meters down the field, out-foxing a few Oneonta ruggers on the way to his try. Pat DiCierbo missed the con- version to keep Union up by four. Oneonta tied up the score with a try of their own and their kicker missed the conversion as well to keep the score tied at four apiece. With the time winding down in the second half, and the score still tied, Delano grabbed the ball again, this time about 30 meters from the try zone to win the game for the Killer B's. DiCierbo made the conversion and the game ended with a 10-4 score. Evan Collins and Gene Bolger both also had great games for the B's. Their tackling and overall aggressiveness Shot fear into their opponents' eyes. Union plays their last game of the season on Homecoming Saturday at 1:00 against Cor- tland. Qj ~ J: r:: (!) IX) > .c c 0 Any interested music.ian please contact Kathy Natole at Achilles Rink 370-6134 .,e Steve Konlian shows how it's done during last weekend's Rugger victory, 0. I Kans~ chance1 Miss our where f history \Show- I off in b~ has be swriter! World ~ 250 mil that cc Kansas Since to the I\ to drive City in gained pressi01 Mid we: MiSSOUl their tv and the Havii Yorkm seenml to eith anothet or the Each baseba the Le• the Wo to deci~ arrive~ ceptior qualifit the C Valuat . The Valuat Georgi his te< pionsh for the out D< York'

) 2 5. ) \ Qj ~ f'O J: c: GJ m > .c 0 b s::. 0. ... - CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page 19 At the World Serie.s By RICH ALLEN Sports Staff Kansas City, MO- It was by/ chance that I happened to be in Missouri this past weekend, where for the second time in history · two teams from the \Show-Me\ state were facing off in baseball's Fall Classic. It has been labeled by sport- swriters and fans as the \I-70 World Series,\ named for the 250 mile stretch of interstate that connects St. Louis and Kansas City. Since it was my first journey to the Midwest a.nd I happened to drive from Albany to Kansas City in less than 24 hours, I gained some distinct im- pressions of not only the Midwest, but the way Missourians are going crazy for their two teams, the Cardinals and the Royals. Having grown up in the New York metropolitan area, I have s.een many kinds of fan reaction to either the Yanks winning another pennant in the late 70's or the Mets finishing last for another year back in the P.G. (Pre-Gooden) era. Because of the itnm.ense size of New York City and the support each team receives, it is difficult .for fans to genuinely get close to players or ~dually show their support beyond going to the ballpark and cheering their team on. This is where K.C. and St. Louis are different. While driving through St. Louis, there were the usual billboards by radio stations exhoiting the Cards to ''win it all.\ Once on I-70 outside the city, homemade banners hung from every overpass for the first fifty miles. On one hillside, I noticed a banner saying ''We Love You Cards\ made by a certain elementary school. All were strategically placed along the interstate wlth the hope that the Cardinal team traveling by bus across the state would see them. · Entering Kansas City, I was greeted by an illumined sky which turned out to be the lights from Royals' stadium, filled to the top. for the opening game of the Series. Needless to say, there was little traffic in or around K.C. since most people were at home watching the game. On Sunday, after the Royals had gone down to defeat inthe opener, I was give~ a tour of the City or whatever there is of one. My friend informed me that he had seen George Brett, the Royals' star third baseman, out on Friday night just drinking and having a good time, the night ,before the opening game of the World Series. He told me it was a common · sight to see many players out in their favorite nightspots during the year. I seriously doubt one would find Dave Winfield or Gary Carter \out on the town\ the night before the opening game of a World Series. The bottom line is that I don't think people in Missouri have a whole hell of a lot to get excited about during the year. Not only is having both state teams in the Fall Classic a thrill, but it is also a chance for Missourians to .look East to New York and West to L.A. and say, \Hey look at us!\ Brett Should Be M. V .P. By JOHN BRUCE CPSIS Each year in late October, the baseball season concludes with the League Championship and the World Series, and the time to decide on post-season honors arrives. This year is no ex- ception, and there are many qualified candidates for both the Cy Young and Most Valuable Players Awards. . The American League Most Valuable Player should go to George Brett this year, as he led his team to a division cham- pionship, the traditional criteria for the MVP. Brett should beat out Don Mattingly of the New York Yankees, for M.V.P., as Brett had a .335 batting average, 30 home runs and 112 runs batted as compared to Mattingly's statistics, a 324,35 homeruns and 145 R.B.I.'s. Although Brett's numbers are not quite as impressive as Mattingly's they were ac- complished on a weaker team and without players like Rickey Henderson, Dave Winfield and Don Baylor in the same lineup. Brett drove in 12 runs for a team that scored the second fewest total runs in the AL, ahead of only the Texas Rangers. Although Mattingly had a better season, statistically than Brett, there is no question which player was more valuable to his team's success. NCAA DIVISION Ill FOOTBALL POLL 1. Augustana 2. Central Iowa 3. Carnegie-Mellon 4. Ithaca · 5. Union 6. Lycoming 7. Mt. Union B. Wisconsin-River Falls 9. Dennison 10. Wagner NCAA DIVISION IIi SOCCER POLL 1. Brandeis 2.California-Sim Diego 3. Wheaton 4. RIT 5. UNC·Greensboro 6. Elizabethtown 7. Washington U 8. Drew . 9. Union 10. Emory MEADOWLAND~LAMBERTCUP DIVISION Ill FOOTBALL POLL 1. Carnegie-Mellon 2. Ithaca 3. Gettysburg 4. Union 5. Mercyhurst 7. Amherst 8. Lycoming 9. Wagner 10. Washington & Jefferson 6-0 6·0 7·0 5·0 6-0 6·0 6·0 5 ·0-1 6-0 6-1 13-0 16-0 13-0·2 11·0-1 12-4-1 12-1-1 15·1-1 11·0·2 8-1 13-1·2 7-0 5·0 .6·0 6-0 6·0 5·0 6-0 6-1 5-1 The National League MVP most likely will be Pedro Guerrero of the Los Angeles Dodgers, instead of Dave Parker of the Cincinnati Reds or Willie McGee of the St. Louis Cardinals. Guerrero has to be considered the frontrunner because he almost single handedly lifted his team into first place. In June, Guerrero hit 15 home runs, drove in 27 runs and raised his average from .268 to .334. This streak carried the Dodgers to the top of their division, where they would remain for the rest of the season. Guerrero finished the season with a .325 average. 33 home runs and 90 RBI's, and would have had had better numbers if he had not missed most of September with a wrist injury. Dave Parker is a strong candidate, with 30 home runs, 120 RBI's and a .311 average and probably would have won if his Reds had beaten out the Dodgers. Willie McGee probably had the best season overall of anyone in the league, with a league-leading average of .353, 54 stolen bases, 209 hits and a Gold Glove year defen- sively in centerfield, but the Cardinals probably would have won their division anyway. Pedro Guerrero is the logical choice foF this award for the Dodgers would have been an average team without his contributions. The Cy Young, Award win- ners are much easier to predict, especially in the National League. This honor will be given to Dwight Gooden of the New York Mets. Gooden compiled a won-loss record of 24-4., a 1.51 earned run average, 268 strikeouts in 277 innings, 16 complete games and lost only two times after the All-8tar break. The American League winner should be Bret · Saberhagen of the Kansas City Royals over Ron Guidry of the New York Yankees. They were the only 20- game winners in the league, but Saberhagen had a lower ERA (2.89 to 3.27) and was forced to pitch with less support (4.7to 5.9 runs per nine innings). Also, Saberhagen played a major role on the success of the Royals- winning the pennant. C!tnncnrbiensis SPORTS Charlie Slotnik Looking at Sports Last Sunday, October 20, was a busy day in sports. The St. Louis Cardinals rallied for four runs in the 9th inning to defeat Kansas City and take a decisive 2-0 lead in the World Series. Week Seven of the N.F.L. concluded with the Rams still undefeated; while the defending champion San Francisco 49ers slipped to 3-4. . America's Marathon took place in Chicago. Joan Benoit, running her first marathon since winning the gold medal in the 1984 Olympics, won the women's division. Steve Jones won the men's division, but missed the world record by two seconds. Sunday was also the day of the world's largest one day rowing event, the Head of the Charles Regatta in Boston. On a beautiful autumn Sunday when. the foliage was in peak form, a quarter of a million spectators crammed along the banks of the Charles River to watch the races. 3,200 men and women par- ticipated in the 18 events in this all day affair Which began at 9:30 a.m. with the Men's Veteran Singles, and concluded late in the afternoon with the Men's Championship Eights. Rowing is not a popular sport and does not have much national interest outside of the OlYmpics. However, .the Head of the Charles is a major regatta which featured many famous crew including the 1984 Olympic Gold Medal Winning Canadian eight man team, and the 1968 U.S. Olympic team. The Regatta is an amateur event in which individuals, schools, and clubs participate. This year the UNION College Rowing Club sent their women's lightweight eight team to represent the school in the Regatta. The Dutchwomen were placed in the Cham- pionship Division instead of the Club Division, but still managed a respectable time. The Dut- chwomen were satisfied with their performance, and enjoyed competing with top rowers in such a prestigious event in front of a large crowd. DUTCHMEN FOOTBALL NOTES ... The Dutchmen ex- ploded for seven touchdowns Saturday against Coast Guard ... Mike Gargiulo tied a school record with four touch- down passes in a single game, and broke Tom Hitchcock's '66 ten year 329 yard 'single game passing record as he passed for 351 yards ... Dutchmen secon- dary notches a school record 7 interceptions ... Union outscored Coast Guard 21-0 in the second half ... Augustana beat Milliken 9-3 ... Carnegie-Mellon beat Washington and Jefferson 24•17. . +++ The Big Ten is the strongest conference _ in college football this year. There is not a single weak team in the conference. Big Ten teams have beaten non- conference opponents 24 out of 30 games this season. In con- trast, PAC-10 teams are 14-13·1 vs. non-conference teams. PAC- 10 domination of the Rose Bowl will end this year as Big 10 teams will dominate the New Year's classic for years to come ... Rumors out of South Bend, Ind. are that this Saturday's Notre Dame-U.S.C. game could be head coach Faust's last if the Irish lose. +++ Congratulations to the new members of this year's Dut- chmen Basketball squad: Todd Lafayette, a junior from Balston Spa; junior Bruce Witherspoon, a 6'5\ forward from Kenmore N.Y.; sophomore Joe Hanley, a 6'3\ transfer from Nassau Com- munity College; freshman Scott Gibbs, a 6'2\ guard from Brock- port, N.Y.; and 6'6\ freshman Doug Gregory from Leeds, Ma. Coach Bill Scanlon believes with these new players Union can gain another E.C.A.C. playoff berth. Similarly, congratulations to the new members of the Skating Dutchmen. Playmakin g Defensemen sophomore BHI Snow, hard hitting freshman defenseman Keith Robertson 6'4\ 225 and freshman forward Darren Stevens, all from Toronto, should fill important voids left from graduation. Also, freshman Scott Manley from Massena, N.Y., sophomore forward Mike Forhan who moves up from the J.V. team, and junior Chris Huntington who comes back to the squad after a year's absence should make solid con- tributions. Coach Charlie Morrison has confidence in all of these new aditions. Soccer Wins Two By MICHAEL GLASS Sports Staff The Union soccer team continued on the path towards an NCAA playoff bid this past week, as they defeated Sienna and Plattsburgh in two great games. In Wednesday's game, against Sienna the team was lead by Dave Tewksbury's two goals and the excellent goaltending of freshman John Laduke. Stopping all but two, Laduke was, indeed, challenged. Injuries continued to plague the hooters and, as a Continued on page 18 Booters converge on Siena during a 5·0 shutout victory.

Page 20 CONCORDJENSIS, October 24, 1985 >- ra ...... . >- .0 0 - 0 .c: a. ~·-~~-~ ···''·····'·· ~;;{M'• ... .,.,., __ _ Head of the Charles See story on page lB Soccer Scores Twice See story on page 19 Thursday, October 24, 1985 e • . Stagg Bowl Bound? Union Sails Past Coast Guard By TED CANNON Sports Staff New London, Conn.-Poise is the sign of a great football team. Up until last Saturday, that was the single biggest question concerning this Dut- chmen team and the teams of the past. The talent is there, but what about the poise? After watching last Saturday's 49-24 drubbing of the Coast Guard, there is no doubt that this team has the poise needed to succeed should it advance to post season play. Move over Torn Hitchcock, move over Dan Stewart, here comes Mike Gargiulo. Last Saturday the sometimes green, sometimes unpolished, sophomore signal-caller was .nothing short of brilliant. Gargiulo passed for 351 yards on the day, completing 20 of 35 passes, and connecting for 4 touchdowns. The 4 touchdowns ties passing yardage. But most importantly, Gargiulo, with poise and confidence emerged as the much needed leader on the offense. The game began rather un- pleasantly for the Dutchmen. The Coast Guard, behind one of the most exciting players in Div. III, quarterback Jeff Hagan, took an early 14-0 lead over Union. The Coast Guard continued to lead 21-14 early in the second quarter, until Union's defense figured out how to contain Hagan. Down 14-0, a situation not often confronting recent Dut- chmen squads, Gargiulo went to work. He first found split end Jim LaFrance (8 catches for 144 yards) for a 1~ yard touchdown. A few minutes later tailback Todd Walker raced into the corner of the end zone to knot the score. Hagan put the Bears back on top with a nifty run of his own. Gargiulo answered by connecting with flanker Cecil Bright for a 27 yard touchdown pass to once again tie tne score. Flanker Pere Cohan took in a 23 yard scoring pass to put the Dutchmen ahead to stay. The closest the Bears would come was a 39 yard field goal at the half to make it 28-24. In the second half, Gargiulo sandwiched an 11 yard touch- down pass to tightend Bill Conklin around two 13 yard . touchdown runs by fullback George Capozzi. The defense in the second half I Ruggers Top In Tourney I By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff Maybe there was a beneficial side to Union's loss a couple weeks ago on Plattsburgh's mud- drenched field. Maybe that game got the Union ruggers used to playing in mud and rain. Whether that game had any effect on last Saturday's con- tests can never be known for sure, however, the rain and mud didn't seem to slow down Union this time. In a three team tournament- Union, Syracuse, and Oneonta- Union came out on top in both of their matchups. Union's \A\ squad won their first game against Syracuse 12-4. Union took a quick 3-0 lead after hooker Dave Blee chipped a penalty kick through the uprights. Union added a little more to the score when Steve Konlian raced around the left side of the field beating several Syracuse ruggers to score one of his two try's on the day. Dave Blee successfully converted the try to put Union up 12-0. However, with seconds left in the game, a Syracuse runner made his way into the tripzone to ruin Union's shutout and bring the final score to 12-4. . The A-team's second game of the day, against Oneonta, proved to be a closer contest- with Union coming out on top, 10-6. One might wonder if Union really did come out on top, however, after losing senior co- captain John Friske on the opening kickoff. Friske nailed an opposing Oneonta runner, only to separate his rigbt shoulder in the process. Although hampered by the extreme pain, FriSke stayed in the game until the next play when he once again tackled a runner and ended up injuring his shoulder even more. He left the game and will be out for the rest of the season. After a o-o half-time score, Union broke the tie when Tim Riley had yet another truly amazing run. About 20 meters from Oneonta's tcy-zone, Riley got the ball. How he ran from there through a clump of about ten Oneonta ruggers without getting tackled is a feat in itself. But never underestimate Riley. His score and Dave Blee's conversion gave Union a 6-0 lead. The score stayed this way until about three minutes before the end of the game when Oneonta tied the game with a try and a conversion. A ten minute sudden-death overtime began. After ten more minutes of the 6-6 tie, it was ruled that an extra five minute overtime will be played. If neither team scored in this overtime, the game would be ruled a tie. To begin this overtime, Union once again lost another key player. Hooker-kicker Dave Blee dislocated his knee-cap and although he has since gone to the hospital and will also be out for the rest of the season, he stayed in the game. Playing with the ~harp pain in his left knee, be hooked a ball during a serum-down in Oneonta's end with only about two-minutes left in the contest. The ball went out to the much improved line and Continued on page 18 ·Junior Todd Walker (1) takes ball into the end zon~ to tie the score for Union. The final score was 49·24. did not allow a point. On the day the defeJilse came up with 7 interceptions including two by Dale Bajcer and 1 by Reinhardt Walker, who is a g,ame away from tying an NCAA record for consecutive games with an interception set by Union's George Oberstadt in 1982. Saturday is homecoming and the Dutchmen host traditional rival Williams at 1:30. Union 49 Union 3 Union 5 Williams5 Plattsburgh 4 Union 1 Union 5 Union 1 GARKETSCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (6-0) MEN'S SOCCER (B-1) WOMEN'S SOCCER (4-7) Fl ELD HOCKEY (10-4-l) DUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK OCTOBER 24- OCTOBER 30TH Thursday 10/24 Women's Soccer vs. Green Mountain Friday 10/24 Men's Soccer at Rochester Women's Tennis NY States at Rochester Saturday 10/26 Football vs. Williams Men's Cross Country at Colgate, UVM Women's Cross Country State Meet at Albany JV Soccer vs. Albany Pharmacy Volleyball vs Mt. St. Mary's Rugby vs. Cortland State Monday 10/28 JV Football vs. Albany St. Men's Soccer vs. Colgate Tuesday 10/29 Women's Soccer vs. Albany Wednesday 10/30 Men's Soccer at Vassar Volleyball vs. Russell Sage, oneonta Coast Guard 24 Siena 2 Plattsburgh 0 ~ Union 2 ,- Union 1 Siena 0 Russell Sage 0 Potsdam 0 3:30 7:00 l :30 l :00 4:00 12:00 1:00 7:.30 2;00 2:30 2:30 7:00 2-PAGE HOMECOMING FOOTBALL. PULLOUT Dutchmen vs. Ephmen ' 'l _...- ' ~ • 'It 1-f••,·-~·o;>,•, \r'\',..~•,\:''\';':_.+.J\ ... ~·'\-o .... ~~ ... \')\}':'ilr.'l:l<hlf~\';•'•i\'•.h~•-:·~'!I~V.~\-\ .-·~'\<!·· ''!Oc\\• ~ .......... ~ ......... '. . .. . ... , '\ •• -~ ....... -. ' t ~~ \i<•; • .t: u 0 ::¥ \0 ·c Ol c: >- ..0 .E 0 ..c: c. \0 c: ro ... ro u. u ~ .... .... (l) .... > .!J 0 15 .I:. c. - - -

Page 20 CONCORDJENSIS, October 24, 1985 c: _.....,. ,..,y -T ~ ro E en en 0 1... \ >. ro -. >. .D 0 .,_ 0 .c 0.. Head of the Charles See story on page 18 Soccer Scores Twice See story on page 19 Thursday, October 24, 1985 • • . Stagg &wl Bound? Union Sails Past Coast Guard By TED CANNON Sports Staff ~cw London, Conn.-Poise is the sign of a great football team. Up until last Saturday, that was the single biggest question concerning this Dut- chmen team and the teams of the past. The talent is there, but what about the poise? After watching last Saturday's 49-24 drubbing of the Coast Guard, there is no doubt that this team has the poise needed to succeed should it advance to post season play. Move over Tom Hitchcock, move over Dan Stewart, here comes Mike Gargiulo. Last Saturday the sometimes green, sometimes unpolished, sophomore signal-caller was nothing short of brilliant. Gargiulo passed for 351 yards I Ruggers By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff Maybe there was a beneficial side to Union's loss a couple weeks ago on Plattsburgh's mud- drenched field. Maybe that game got the Union ruggers used to playing in mud and rain. Whether that game had any effect on last Saturday's con· tests can never be known for sure, however, the rain and mud didn't seem to slow down Union this time. In a three team tournament- Union, Syracuse, and Oneonta- Union came out on top in both of their matchups. Union's \A\ squad won their first game against Syracuse 12-4. Union took a quick 3-0 lead after hooker Dave Blee chipped a penalty kick through the uprights. Union added a little more to the score when Steve Konlian raced around the left side of the field beating several Syracuse ruggers to score one of his two try's on the day. Dave Blee successfully converted the try to put Union up 12-0. on the day, completing 20 of 35 passes, and connecting for 4 touchdowns. The 4 touchdowns ties passing yardage. But most importantly, Gargiulo, with poise and confidence emerged as the much needed leader on the offense. The game began rather un- pleasantl.Y for the Dutchmen. The Coast Guard, behind one of the most exciting players in Div. III, quarterback Jeff Hagan, took an early 14-0 lead over Union. The Coast Guard continued to lead 21-14 early in the second quarter, until Union's defense figured out how to contain Hagan. Down 14-0, a situation not often confronting recent Dut- chmen squads, Gargiulo went to work. He first found split end Jim LaFrance (8 catches for 144 Top In However, with seconds left in the game, a Syracuse runner made his way into the tripzone to ruin Union's shutout and bring the final score to 12-4. The A-team's second game of the day, against Oneonta, proved to be a closer contest- with Union coming out on top, 10-6. One might wonder if Union really did come out on top, however, after losing senior co- captain John Friske on the opening kickoff. Friske nailed an opposing Oneonta runner, only to separate his right shoulder in the process. Although hampered by the extreme pain, Friske stayed in the game until the next play when he once again tackled a runner and ended up injuring his shoulder even more. He left the game and will be out for the rest of the season. After a 0-0 half-time score, Union broke the tie when Tim Riley had yet another truly amazing run. About 20 meters from Oneonta's try-zone, Riley got the ball. How he ran from there through a clump of about yards) for a 19 yard touchdown. A few minutes later tailback Todd Walker raced into the corner of the end zone to knot the score. Hagan put the Bears back on top with a nifty run of his own. Gargiulo answered by connecting with flanker Cecil Bright for a 27 yard touchdown pass to once again tie the score. Flanker Pere Cohan took in a 23 yard sco-ring pass to put the Dutchmen a head to stay. The closest the Bears would come was a 39 yard field goal at the half to make it 28-24. In the second half, Gargiulo sandwiched an 11 yard touch- down pass to tightend Bill Conklin around two 13 yard touchdown runs by fullback George Capozzi. The defense in the second half Tourney! ten Oneonta ruggers without getting tackled is a feat in itself. But never underestimate Riley. His score and Dave Blee's conversion gave Union a 6-0 lead. The score stayed this way until about three minutes before the end of the game when Oneonta tied the game with a try and a conversion. A ten minute sudden-death overtime began. After ten more minutes of the 6-6 tie, it was ruled that an extra five minute overtime will be played. If neither team scored in this overtime, the game would be ruled a tie. To begin this overtime, Union once again lost another key player. Hooker-kicker Dave Blee dislocated his knee-cap and although he has since gone to the hospital and will also be out for the rest of the season, he stayed in the game. Playing with the sharp pain in his left knee, he hooked a ball during a scrwn-down in Oneonta's end with only about two-minutes left in the contest. The ball went out to the much improved line and Continued on page 18 Junior Todd Walker (1) takes ball into the end zone to tie the score for Union. The final score was 49·24. did not allow a point. On the day the defe!ilSe came up with 7 interceptions including two by Dale Bajcer and 1 by Reinhardt Walker, who is a game away from tying an NCAA record for consecutive games with an interception set by Union's George Oberstadt in 1982. Saturday is homecoming and the Dutchmen host traditional rival Williams at 1:30. Union49 Union 3 Union 5 Williams5 Plattsburgh4 Union 1 Union 5 Union 1 GARNET SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (6-0) MEN'S SOCCER (8-1) WOMEN'S SOCCER (4-7) FIELD HOCKEY (10-4-1) DUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK OCTOBER 24 ·OCTOBER 30TH Thursday 10/24 Women's Soccer vs. Green Mountain Friday 10/24 Men's Soccer at Rochester Women's Tennis NY States at Rochester Saturday 10/26 Football vs. Williams Men's Cross Country at Colgate, UVM Women's Cross Country State Meet at Albany JV Soccer vs. Albany Pharmacy Volleyball vs Mt. St. Mary's Rugby vs. Cortland State Monday 10/28 JV Football vs. Albany St. Men's Soccer vs. Colgate Tuesday 10/29 Women's Soccer vs. Albany Wednesday 10/30 Men's Soccer at Vassar Volleyball vs. Russell Sage, Oneonta Coast Guard 24 Siena 2 Plattsburgh 0 Union 2 Union 1 Siena 0 Russell Sage 0 Potsdam o 3:30 7:00 1:30 1:00 4:00 12:00 1:00 7:30 2:00 2:30 2:30 7:00 2-PAGE HOMECOMING FOOTBALL PULLOUT Dutchmen vs. Ephmen .t: u 0 ~ \'0 ·;: Ol c:: >- .0 0 ,._ 0 .s:: 0. - ..... \ -, > .0 0 +- 0 .t: 0. j - - i ' ; ~

.t: \J 0 )i \0 ·c 01 c: >- ..0 .E 0 ..c: c. an and 24 2 1 0 30 00 30 00 00 00 00 30 \0 c: ro ... ro u. u ~ - ... <II ..., >- ..0 0 0 .s:::. c. CONCORDIENSIS,Dctober 24, 1985 Page A Celebrating 50 Years of Study Abroad ~·{.(~ ·, _\ \'. \ ... ~~'',:.:..· '~ : ·,\\ ''\' ~~ . ~\' -\' -~~ .:;.·

J:: u 0 ~ \'0 ·;: Ol c:: >. .0 ~ 0 .I: 0. an and 24 1 0 0 30 30 - - \ -, > .D 0 +- 0 ..c: 0. CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page A Celebrating 50 Years of Study Abroad .,_,,··. I I. ; I ;.1 \, I' I !

PageD CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 .... Q) .0 :::l .... ~ 'C > r;, 0 >- .0 0 ...... ':l .c a. Prof. Thomas, director of the Terms Abroad program, discusses options for foreign study for Union students. -A Look at Terms.Abroad By ROBIN BUNNELL ContrlbutoJ.\ ''I think a term abroad is important for the cultural perspective a student gains,'' said William Thomas, director of the Terms Abroad program. Thomas, who has been the director since 1978, said that while a term abroad can ~hange a student's perspective on himself and how he lives, it also offers him a chance for ''hands on experience.\ \It can be an experiencethat is marketable,\ said Thomas. The Terms Abroad program began in 1969 with a term in Vienna. Union offers ten terms abroad a year, with some terms alternating every other year. Currently, Union offers terms abroad~ in England, France, Italy, Japan, Greece, Israel, Spain, Mexico, Germany and Austria. In an av.erage Union class, about 40 percent of the students will go on at least one term abroad, said Thomas, ·Many choose to go on a second and a few students go on a third term a broad. Although the Terms Abroad program is the most popular arrangement for foreign study, Union also offers three exchange programs. The St. Andrews Exchange, started in 1937, is the oldest.otthe ex- change programs. Each year, one student is chosen to study at the University of St. Andrews, Scotland's oldest university. Besides the St. Andrews Exchange, Union offers an exchange in York, England and the Eidgenossische Technische- Hochschule (ETH) Exchange in Zurich, Switzerland. Union exchange programs are more competitive than terms abroad (only one or two students are chosen for an exchange) and oft~n times an inte.rview and-or essay is required in applying for an exchange program. Thomas said that although Union does not intend to create any more true terms abroad, they would like to work more with: exchanges. \There is the possibility of an exchange with China,\ said Thomas. There's no doubt that a term abroad can be one of the most educational experiences in a student's life. Taken from an essay written in applying for the York exchange, a student says, ''It will be refreshing to view my world from a new vantage point; one close enough that I am not blinded .by the dif- ferencesand separate enough to enable me to see another world that England represents.\ Homeconing Concert· . .. Letter from St. Andrews Choir to Perform By DENI RIGHTMffiE Contributor The newly formed Choir is a strong performing group. It consists of forty voices, in- cluding some talented freshmen as wel11--as many skilled up- perclassmen. Enthusiasm in the group runs high-the members seem to be proving that they were ready for the change from two separate Glee Clubs. The officers of the Choir-President Deni Rightmire, Vice President John Delisio, Treasurer Paula Nadeau, Secretary Mary Carroll, Concert Managers Deq Thompson and Drena Webster, Publicity Managers Lisa Leh- man and Erie Davis, Librarian Tricia Feeney, _and flistprian Diana Praus-are quick to praise the dedication and spirit of the members. According to Mary, \The group is unified, we've got a lot of good singers, and we're getting along both musically and socially.\ Reprinted from Con- cordiensis, May 11, 1951. Hello Union: Here we are, well into our third term at St. Andrews and the novelty and excitement which we experienced on our arrival have not yet worn off. The adjustment to life in St. Andrews has not been difficult because it, like Union, is a small univ.ersity of about twelve hundred students. One of the major differences is that at St. Andrews, the student body is hermaphroditic (Coed?). The setting too is different; the town ofSt. A's might be truly called a university town. During the major part of the year, the red gown stands as the most im- portant contrast to the severe gray sone of Scottish ar- chitecture. The red gown which is still the usual dress of the student, was originally a compulsory measure so that the faculty could keep a sharp eye on the student during his extra- curricular activities. Residences Compete St. Andrews is the only residential university in Scotland, having five men•s residences and two women's residences (with late hour restrictions and fire-escapes) which house about tbree quarters of the student population. The residences are not unlike the fraternities at Union in that they live and play _ as units, rivaling each other for success in sports, residence formals, and the many traditions which form the basis fm· this university's life. But on the academic side, the gulf between Union and St. Andrews is wider; the methods Explore of British Universities in general and St. Andrews in particular are quite different from those employed in American higher education. The training is more specialized, with emphasis placed on preparing the student thoroughly in one field for his vocation rather than trying to give him the broad basis of a liberal education. It is not unusual for classes to number over a hundred students; and as a result, ~he faculty-student relationships in some depart- ments do not compare favorably with those at Union. The student carries a usual maximum of three courses which meet daily and give the equivalent of fifteen credit hours a week. It might be well to add that classes commence at the reasonable hour of nine o'clock and that the . Saturday morning reverie is not disturbed by the thought of an end-of-the-week quiz. Abounds in Activities St. Andrews has an enormous number of extra-curricular activities with the most popular being in the field of sports. The system here aims at letting as great a nwnber as possible play on the college teams, and since British rules usually prohibit substitutions, the University possesses many teams for rugby, soccer, and cricket, the favorites. (Rugby and cricket · are really interesting after you can understand what's hap- pening). Basketball is played in the Scottish Universities, but we found that the teams almost always had more Americans than British on them. An in· teresting point: Only the girls e8fLoppe and discover Fabulous Fashions 133 Canal Square 370-4288· play lacrosse in Scotland, but with restraint. Societies are numerous and varied as at Union, and popular. There are times when University attention is so focused on its social life that the academic seems to fade from prominence (not Union?) One hesitates to use the word \extra-curricular\ for the social, academic, and historical sides of St. Andrews cannot be separated. Sorry to Leave Throughout the course of the · year the attachments for the university and for individuals have become very close, and it is with mixed feeling that we view our approaching return. The sorrow of leaving St. Andrew~ is mitigated somewhat by the prospect of returning to Union. We were received warmly here, due in no small measure to the efforts of previous ex- change students, both from Union and St. Andrews. In closing, may we say that we are grateful for the opportunity we have hfid to contribute in some way toward bringing the two Universities closer together. Looking forward to seeing you next fall, Best Regards, Ron Jennett Fred Kantor It is again time for the annual Homecoming Concert in Memorial Chapel. This year, however, it will be differ-ent from other concerts. In the past, the Men's and Women's Glee Clubs have combined to put on a joint concert on Homecoming. This past winter, however, the Glee Clubs were dissolved and a new group formed-The Union College Choir. The. Choir is a. group of men and women who sing all mixed choir music. Many of the faces are the same, but they Will no longer be singing purely men's and women's repertoire. \International Theme\ Under the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson, the Choir can be heard rehearsing on Mondays and Wednesdays at 7:00 in the Arts Building. In keeping with the international theme of Homecoming this year, the Choir has been working on a nwnber of songs from around the world. Folk songs from Ireland, Mexico, Paraguay, and America will be included in the program. Also, a group of English madrigals will be performed, as well as one of Handel's Coronation Anthems. The concert is at 8:00 on Saturday night, to be im- mediately followed by fireworks outside the Nott Memorial. The Choir hopes to spend Spring Break in Florida, doing a concert tour there. Contacts are being made with former Glee Club members and Alumni Clubs .. With sufficient funds, the trip will become a reality. Singing Telegrams and raffles are two ways in which the money for the trip is being raised. The concert on Saturday night is free and open to the entire Union Community. Everyone is invited to attend, and the Choir hopes to see you all there. Have a Great Weekend! Rest~urant a·nd Bar WELCOME ALUMNI! See you. after the game- Best wings in town! Saturday Special: ladies Night Michelobs • $1.00 . 501 Hattie Street, Schenectady (518) 3~3-0594 -

CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 Page C ~~~~~·~~·~~··~~·~~·~~·~~··~~·~~·~~·~~·~~··~~ . . - ·~ s· · c· he·d·• u·I·e o· f E· · v· ··en·· ts ~ ~ ..•...... · •.... · ... ·.. . . . .. ·. .··. ~ ~ G ! Friday, October 25 e1 ~ 8:;30 a.m.-4:30p.m. Open Glasses. Alumni, parents and friends are fiJ i.nVl. 'ted to join Union's students. Class schedules are available in Lamont ~ House. . , · - ,;.:,5:30 p.m.-8:30p.m. Greek Alumni Conference. Hale House Dining ~. Room. Dinner and keynote address. (Pre-registration required; limited ~ reservations. Contact Dean of Students' Office, 518-370-6061 by ~ October 11.) - . 6:30 p.m. Annual Fund Class Agents Awards Dinner. Ramada Inn. 7} Cocktails 6:30p.m. - Dinner 7:30p.m. to 7:00/9:00/11:00. p.m. Movie \Witness.\ Room 016. Social Sciences ~ Building. Tickets maybepurchased at the Student Activities Box Office. eJ Old Chapel. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. ~ ~ - 8:00p.m. An EVening of Comedy wi~h Robert Klein. Proctor's Theatre. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. Old Chapel. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. ~ . . ~ Saturday, October 26 ~ 8:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Class Agents Breakfast/Workshop. Hale House ~ Dining Room: ~ 8:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Greek Alumni Conference. Humanities Building f:... 115. Continental breakfast and workshop. (Pre-registration required; i3 limited reservations. Contact Dean of Students' Office, 518-370-6061 by - October 1 1 ). ~ ~ ~ i - ~ 9:00 a.m.-10:06 a.m. ReUnion '86 Class Committee Meeting. Lower Lounge. ~ale House. 9:30 a.m. Breakfast with the Dutchman Football Team. West College Dining Room. Join head football coach Al Bagnoli and the 1985 squad \Dutch Treat.\ 10:00 a.m.-11:00 a.m. Parents Committee Meeting. Milano Lounge. Hale House. 10:00 a.m. - R.A. ReUnion. Fox Lounge. ~ 10:00 A.M.-5:00p.m. Photography Exhibit, Arts Building. 12:00 Noon Volleyball vs. Mount St. Mary College. Memorial house. - Field- ~ ~ 12:15 p.m. Annual Homecoming Parade. Down Alexander Lane to Union ~­ Avenue, to Union Street, in the Blue Gate, past Old Chapel, to Alexander · ~w. . 1:30 p.m. Football vs. Williams. Astroturf Field. HalfTime- President fi JohnS. Morris will present the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and ij Float Awards. J: 4:00 p.m.-5:00p.m. President's Reception. Everyone is invited to join f.: President and Mrs. Morris in beautiful Jackson's Garden (or Old Chapel ~ if the weather is inclement). Featuring Union's Jazz Ensemble and i photo display of terms abroad prognl:ms. f: 5:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m..PedormingArts. Memorial Chapel. Works performed f by Union students. Reception to follow. Sponsored by Student Dance Club i3 and Arts Club. i) ~ Late Afternoon and Evening · ~ Fraternity and Sorority Homecoming Parties - 5:00/6:30/8:00 p.m. Join us at Union College's historic Hale House ~ Dining Room for candlelight dining (waiter and waitress service). Menu ~ accents nouvelle cuisine in addition to prime rib. steak, and seafood. iJ $9.50 per person. Limited seating: early reservations are ~ required: Mail check (payable to Union College) and reservation f.< indicating seating time to Union College Alumni Office, Schenectady. NY to 12308. Telephone (518) 370-6168. ~ - 7:00/9:00/11:00 p.m. Movie \Witness.\ Room 016, Social Sciences ~ Building. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. to Sponsored by the Student Film Committee: C 7:30/10:00 p.m. Cabaret. Old Chapel. Reserved seats- tickets areS 1.50 ~ and may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. Sponsored 7J by Student Cabaret. ~ 8:00p.m. Union College Choir Annual Homecoming Concert. Memorial ~ Chapel. Featuring music from around the world. eJ - - ~ 10:30 a.m. \A Union of People.\ Room 016, Social Sciences Building. 9·00 p m Gala Fireworks Display I ibrary Field ~ ~ Union's award-winning filrii portraying academic and social life on · · · · · J • ~ fiJ campus. t:, ·~ i3 - - ~ 10:30 a.m.-Noon Academic ~ ~ Presentations/Receptions. Everyone is invited f! e:_ to join the following faculties to learn what's new in your major and ~ ~ other areas of interest. Sunda.·y, Octobe.r 27 .. ~ - I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Arts, Classics, English. o. _ . _ . . .. ~ Modern Languages. Philosophy .. The Burns Student Forum. Arts I f . Building. 9:00 a.m.-12:00 Noon Homegoing Brun~h. Hale House Dining Room. f;; ~ II. Faculty of th~ Social Sciences. Economics. History. Institute of Adults $5.50, Under 12 $3.50. ' ~ Administration and Management, Political Science, Sociology. \Tax 10:00 a.m. Homecoming '85 Chapel Service. Memorial Chapel. Mr. !z ~- Reform: Who Should Pay and How Much?\ Room 115, Social Thomas H. A. Lewis '26 speaking. . ~ ~ Sciences Building. f: ~ ill. Faculty of the Sciences ~ -·ll Biolo.gical Sciences. Room S 301 (Genetics Lab), Science and : e1 7:00/9:00/11:00 p.m. Movie .. Witness.\ Room 016, Social Sciences - Engineering Center. Building. Tickets maybe purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. - ~ Chemistry, Room N 116. Science and Engineering Center. ~ to Geology, Room 201. Butterfield Hall. Admissions Interviews. The Admissions Office will be open all day f: ~ Friday and on Saturday from 9:00a.m. to Noon specifically for interviews \' ll Mathematics. Room 202, Bailey Hall. ·with alumni sons and daughters. Please contact the Admissions Office ~ ~ Physics, Room N 114. Science and Engineering Center. for an appointment at least two weeks in advance: (518) 370-6112. - ~- Psychology, Room 204, Psychology Building. ~- ~ Campus Store. Nott Memorial. Lower Level. Friday: 8:45a.m. to 4:45p.m. ~ fiJ IV. Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science Saturday: 10 a.m. to 4:00p.m. · ~ ll. Civil Engineering, Room 103, Butterfield Hall. ll iiJ Electrical Engineering/Computer Science, Rooms 100 and 101. HaleHouseDiningRoom.Saturday.October26-Lunch ll:OOa.m.to eP - Steinmetz Hall. 2:30 p.m. Candlelight Dining 5:00. 6:30. 8:00 p.m. Reservations with ~ ~ Mechanical Engineering, Room N 205 (Lab), Science and payment required. (See event schedule.) Sunday. October 27- Home- /.{ to going Brunch 9:00 a.m. to 12:00 Noon. to f:. Engineering Building. \' ~ West College Dining Room. Friday. October 25 and Saturday. October ~ ~ ?6 ~ Dinn 1 er: 5:00 ~.m. to 6:30 p.m. ~ 1: 11:30 a.m.-3:30 p.m. Lunch. Parking. Pease use otoncornerofSeward Place and Nott Street and the {: t:, Alexander Field. Beverages, hot dogs and hamburgers. Sponsored by lot behind the Fieldhouse. Roadways on campus are classified as Fire f:. i Union's Men's and Women's Lacrosse Teams. Lanes and must be kept dear. ~ i Accommodations and Child Care.Ifyou desire a list of area motels or a ~ . if. 11:30 a.m. Music by Union's Dutch Pipers. Lamont House Porch. list of students whom you may contact for child care during the f.{ ~ weekend. please call the Alumni Office in advance. to ~.· G.· iJ 11:45 a.m. Terrace Council Luncheon e1 - - . ~ 12:00 Noon Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial Chapel ~ ~~~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~!~~·~~·~~~

·, PageD CONC.fJRDIENSIS, Octoher24, 1985 .... turns Union program around Bagnoli Heads Dutchmen ByP.T.A. Sports Staff Head football coach Al Bagnoli, in his fourth season at Union, is again headed for another outstanding campaign. With his six wins this season Bagnoli has already set the all time win mark for Dutchmen football coaches. With an overall record of 33 wins and five losse8 Bagnoli also holds the highest win percentage for any Union football coach. Bagnoli graduated from Central Connecticut State where he played on the varsity 0 - 0 s: n 0 <I) / ./ Union head coach AI Bag.noli football team for three years. Before coming to Union in 1977, Bagnoli coached at Albany State University. There he was the defensive coordinator as well as coach of the linebackers and the secondary. He remained at Albany for two years, before moving to Union to become the secondary coach and defensive coordinator. He did this until 1982 when he moved up to the head coaching position. In his rookie season as head coach he had 8-1 record, but r.eceived no playoff bid. But in his next two seasons Bagnoli led the Dutchmen football team to two straight appearances in the NCAA division three playoffs, including making the championship game in 1983. This year's team with its ex- cellent 6-o record seems a sure bet to make the playoffs for a third straight year. Coach Bagnoli has also received personal accolades for his coaching efforts. In 1983 he was named by the New England Football Newsletter as Coach of the Year. In 1983, he was named as the Eastman Kodak region 1 Coach Of The Year after leading the Dutchmen to the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. Many expected this to be a rebuilding year with the loss of many talented seniors last year. But such has not been the case thus far. Last year's nation- leading points-scored-against defense still continues to thrive allowing only 41 in six games. Bagnoli feels it is imperative that the Dutchmen defense continue to perform if Union is to be a playoff team in 1985. The offense, despite having an entire new backfield and receiving corps, has been performing up to Bagnoli's expectations also. Continued success with outstanding performances of both units seems likely. Bagnoli expects a tough game from the Ephmen despite last years drubbing. Avoiding over- confidence is a main concern for the Dutchmen who have lost their final games of the iast two seasons to teams they expected to beat handily. Bagnoli holds high hopes of another playoff and cham- pionship year. 1985 UNION COlLEGE FOOTBALL STATISTICS 6 Game 1'otals RUSHING Player Gn1s Att l1ds Avg TD Con YdsPerGm 'lodd Wa 1 ker 6 \19 ~.L~ 4.i • lJ 69.2 George Capozzi 6 71 32~ •• 6 3 IJ ~4.2 Oarrel< 5hepherd • 31 i.22 3.9 1 u 30.!:. M~J<e Gargtulo 6 ~) 112 2.0 3 1 H. 7 Cectj. ~ 6 2 75* 9.0 1 0 1.3 ' \ PASSING Player Gms Att Comp Pet l!ds TD Int YdsPerGm Mike Gargiulo 6 142 66 46.5 905 7 8 150. ~ Jay Wood 4 17 9 52.9 145 2 1 36. 2 Ba O'uay 3 12 6 50.0 ll8 0 0 59. 0 RBCBIVltiG Player Gms eta Yds Avg TD Con !dsPerGm CtsPerGm Jim LaFrance 6 31 513 16.5 3 0 85. ~ 5.2. Cecil Bught 6 17 175 10.3 2 0 29.2 2.8 · Peter Cohan 6 9 147 16.3 2 0 24.!> 1.0> ·rodd Walker 6 7 84 12.0 0 0 14.0 1.2 Mark stachowiah 4 5 ~ 12~ !. 0 15.0 __l...Z. SCORING Player Gms TO. Pat-K Pat;-R Pat-P FG Sa£ Pts PtsPerGm Todq Walker 6 • o-o o-o ·0-0 o-u 0 24 c.u. Greg Sticka 5 0 11-14 0-0 0-0 2-2 0 17 3,a Mike Gargiu:J.o 6 3 o-o 0-1 1-2 o-u 0 20 3..,3 Jim LaFrance 6 3 o-o o-o o-o o-u 0 18 3.0 <Oeorge Capozzi 6 3 o-o o-n o-o 0-0 0 18 3.L Uarre11 Shepherd 4 2 11-0 o-o 0-0 11-U u 12 3,u Cecil Bright ' 6 3 0-0 0-0 ()-O o-o 0 18 a.c Peter Cohan 6 2 o-o o-o o-o i-5 u 15 3.u ..ll).~lte Henderson 4 0 7-& o-n o-o 1-3 0 10 2,5 'l'EAM S'l'A'l'lSTICS llliiON OPPONI!NTS D.>.rterence Points 182 46 ·+136 Pint Downs 123 63 +60 Ruahing 66 22 HC Passing 52 36 +16 Penalty 5 5 + 0 l'UIIblea/Lost 22/15 12/8 -10/-7 J:nterception11 9 25 +16 l'urnovers 24 33 +9 ·rotal Plays 47<1 382 +92 'l'otal l1ards 2377 11911 +1187 No. 1 2 3 4 5 6 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 28 29 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 43 44 45 46 47 48 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 56 58 59 60 61 ·62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 73 74 75 76 77 78 80 80 82 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 -91 92 93 94 95 96 96 97 98 99 99 UNION COLLEGE nnutchmen'' Name Todd Wal ker• * Jim LaFrance Horace Griffin Pat Salvador Steve Hayes Blake Henderson George McEvoy Cecil Bright* Tim Valachovic Chris Hurcomb Tim McLees Tim Lucey Mark S1achowiah Mike Gargiulo Jeff Nolan 'Ed O'Day Joe Duffy Jay Wood Rick Pisciotta Joe Waters••• Steve Alves • ·Reinhard Walker••• Tom Connolly Joe Guerrieri Alex Rita* • tt George Capozzl*'tt Dale Bajcer•• Greg Sticka •• • Darrell Shepherd Phil Horn Chris Duffy Jeff Warner Mark Caruso Michael Goldstein Chris Armour Todd Harder Dave Harris Darin Rathbun Steve Morrice Todd Cocoril1is T.J .. McManus Tracy Valachovic Louis Hughes• Vince Liberti Chris Heyer John Johnson Pat Wright' • • ttt Dan Klinger Leonard Bates Matt Gregoire Marc Paquin* Chris Mohr Bob LoParo* Pat Cook James Brown•• Cliff Genge Jim Buley Gerry Campanelli ... ttt Kevin Ramundo*t Bernie Thomas Allan Rappelyea William Smith Tim Ramundo**t Chris Bowler• Kevin Fiala Sean Mclaughlin Mike McKenzie Steve Rooney• Ralph Acanfora Sean Duffy' Stephan Deptula* Bubba Koonce••tt ·Peter Cohan• Dave Morrison Greg Goetz Nick Capuano Ken Horan Rich Samuel'son Michael Calderon! Bart Lehrman Hubert Robinson Mike Murphy George Fotladis Anthony Valente .. •ttt Ron Davis Kyle Peck Rich Romer• Sherman Parrott*'*t Mike VanHorn Bill Conklin Michael Ford Mike Sirowich Peter Corkery• • • Craig Aaron William Floor Yr. Jr. So. Fr. Sr. Fr. Fr. So. So. So. So. Fr. Fr. So. So. So. Fr. Jr. So. So. Sr. Jr. Sr. Fr. Fr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. So. So. Fr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Jr. Jr. Fr. So. Jr. Jr. Fr. Jr~ Jr. Sr. Sr. Fr. So. Fr. So. Fr. Fr. Jr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Sr. Jr. Jr. So. Sr. Fr. So. Fr. Fr. Sr. So. Fr. Pos. HI. Wt. RB 5'9 180 WR 5'8 170 WR 5'10 165 WR 5'7 160 RB 6'1 195 ss 6'0 175 WR 5'9 160 WR 6'0 190 QB 6'0 175 WR 5'8 165 s 6'2 175 RB 5'10 185 TE 6'2 210 QB 6'0 175 QB/P 6'0 190 QB 6'4 220 QB 6'0 185 QB 5'10 175 PB 6'0 185 ss 5'11 190 ss 5'10 195 DB 160 ss 195 WR 190 DB 180 FB 230 D 180 195 80 OG 5'11 240 0~ 6'2 235 OT 6'3 215 OG 6'0 225 c 6'0 240 OG 5'11 215 OT 6'2 250 DT 6'4 255 OT 6'2 300 DT 6'3 255 WRIK 6'2 205 DE 6'4 185 TE 6'3 225 WR 5'9 170 P/WR 5'11 155 DB 5'9 180 MG 5'7 205 TE 6'2 220 TE 6'1 185 DE 6'3 220 DE 6'3 210 MG 5'9 210 DE 6'0 190 DE 6'5 230 DE 6'3 210 DT 6'0 230 DT 6'3 215 TE 5'11 190 LC 6'0 218 LB 6'3 220 DE 6'2 225 DE 6'1 225 TE 6'0 190 Hometown Baltimore, MD Oxford, CT· Baltimore, MD Batavia, NY CaroEa Lake, NY Salt ake City, UT Troff' NY Cli fwood, NJ Johnstown, NY Rutland, VT West Islip, NY Newburgh, NY Cheektowa~a, NY Yorktown, Y Gales Ferry, CT Clifton Park, NY Bethel, CT Amesbury, MA Glen Head, NY Norwood, NJ W. Warwick, Rl Bristoi,CT Dumont, NJ Lorain, OH Endicott, NY Southbury, CT Lorain, OH Wethersfield, CT Buffalo, NY Brightwaters, NY Rye, NY Danbury, CT Waltham, MA Rye, NY Norwood, MA MA OH Spri Swampscott, MA Buffalo, NY Schenectady, NY Allendale, NJ Wayne, NJ New Canaan, CT Pittsford, NY Painted Post, NY Amsterdam, NY Lake Grove, NY New City, NY Smithtown, NY Poughkee8sie, NY Ansonia, T New City, NY Waltham, MA Fairport, NY Everett, MA aloomingdale, NJ Troy, NY. Carlstadt, NJ Waccabue, NY Hudson, MA Albany, NY Mendham, NJ Malden, MA Bethel, CT Dobbs Fer~, NY Stony Broo , NY Lynn, MA Southington, CT Norwood, NJ New Rochelle, NY Boxford, MA Eastchester, NY Shelton, CT Chatham, NY Pt. Jefferson, NY E. Greenbush 1 NY Hudson Falls, NY Rochester, NY Utica, NY Worcester, MA Oxford, OT Miford, CT Kingston, NY Marlboro, NY 'Indicates number of varsity letters won; tlndicates number of years as a starter. lL'cisPerGm 396.2 ~dsPerPlay 5.0 Penalties/~ds. 53/415 198.3 3.1 31/255 +197.9 +1.9 -22/-160 COACHES: Head Coach-AI Bagnoli, Offensive Line-Fred Brown, Jim Schaefer, Receivers-Peter Brown, Running Backs-Larry Cottrell, Quarterbacks-John Audino, Defensive Line·Mike Toop, Tom PlungiS, Linebackers-Gary Reynolds, Secondary-A! Bagnoii, Defensive Ends· Bill Hess. Union's Defendve Depth Chart L. End L. Tackle #98 Peter Corkery Sr 6'2. 225 #94 Sherman Parrott Sr. 6'0. 230 Middle Guard #90 Anthony Valente Sr 5'9. 210 1199 Cra1g Aaron So 6'1 225 'A. End 1176 Sean Duffy Jr. 6'4. 255 #93 Arch Rome• So 6'3, 215 #BB M1ke Murphy Fr. 6'3. 220 LOHB N27 Alex Rrta Jr 6'10. 185 ~41 Dann Rathbun F• 6'1 185 Salety ff21 Joe Waters Sr 5'11.190 ~22 Steve Alves Jr 5'10. 195 #74 Steve Rooney Jr. 5'11. 215 A. Linebacker #52 Pat Wnght Sr 6'0, 200 IP.;z Marc Paqu1n So 6'0, 215 Safety #23 Reinhard Walker Sr 5'9, 160 #83 Blake Henderson Fr. 6'0, 175 R. Tackle 1#78 Bubba Koo nee Sr. 6'3. 255 1#95 Mike VanHorn Fr. 6'3, 215 a.-. Linebacker lt47 LOUIS Hughes Sr. 5·10. 200 1158 Bob LoParo Jr. 5'11. 2oo RDHB ff29 Dale Ba;cer Jr. 5'10. 180 #84 Rich Samuelson Fr. 5'9, 180 Union's Offensive Depth Chart L. Ta-ckle L. Guard Center A. Guard R. Tacklo lffl4 Kevin Ramundo Jr. 5'11, 250 #68 Tim Ramundo #60 Jim Brown #63 Gerry Campanelli #69 Ch rls Bowler Jr. 5'11, 240 Jr. 6'0, 205 Sr. 6'0, 240 So, 6'2, 235 1177 Stefan Deptula Jr 6'2. 300 1159 Pat Cook 11'96 Mike Ford 1171 Sean McLaughlin #73 Mike McKenzie Spilt End 112 Jim Lafrance So. 5'6, 170 liB George McEvoy So. 5'6, 160 So. 6'2. 205 Fullback Flanker 119 Cecil Bright So. 6'0, 190 1180 Peter Cohan sr. 6'~. 205 1128 George Capozzi Sr. 6'0, 230 #31 Greg Sticka· Sr. 5'10; 200 Fr 5·o. 220 So. 6'0, 225 Quarterback 1115 Mike Gargiulo so. n·o. 175 #19 Jay Wood So. 5'10. 175 #l'l Ed O'Day Fr. E·'4, 220 Jr. 6'0, 240 Halfback 111 Todd Walker Jr. 5'9, 180 1132 ·Darrell Shepherd So. 5' 10. 180 Tight End 1#82 Gre11 6oet2 'So. 6'3, 225 · 1114 Mark Stachowlah So. 6'2; 210 - . _, \ . ., '\' ., ....... ~ ........ -.. .. .,., ... -. ~ - •

PageD CONCPRDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 .... turns Union program around Bagnoli Heads Dutchmen By P.T.A. Sports Staff Head football coach AI Bagnoli, in his fourth season at Union, is again headed fur another outstanding campaign. With his six wins this season Bagnoli has already set the all time wm mark for Dutchmen football cuaches. With an overall record of 33 wins and five losses Bagnoli also holds the highest win percentage for auy Union foolball coach. Bagnoli graduated from Central Connecticut State where he played on the varsity 0 - 0 s:. 0. 0 Union head coach AI Bagnoli football team for three years. Before coming to Union in 1977, Bagnoli coached at Albany State University. There he was the defensive coordinator as well as coach of the linebackers and the secondary. He remained at Albany for two years, before moving to Union to become the secondary coach and defensive coordinator. He did this until 1982 when he moved up to the head coaching position. In his rookie season as head coach he had 8-1 record, but r.eceived no playoff bid. But in his next two seasons Bagnoli led the Dutchmen football team to two straight appearances in the NCAA division three playoffs, including making the championship game in 1983. This vear's team with its ex- cellen\t 6-0 record seems a sure bet to make the playoffs for a third straight year. C'oach Bagnoli has also received personal accolades for his coaching efforts. In 1983 he was named by the New England Football Newsletter as Coach of the Y('ar. In 1983, h(' was named as the Eastman Kodak region 1 Coach Of The Year after leading the Dutchmea to the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl. Many expected this to be a rebuilding year with the loss o! many talented seniors last year. But such has not been the case thus far. Last year's nation- leading points-scored-against defense still continues to thrive allowing only 41 in six games. Bagnoli feels it is imperative that the Dutchmen defense continue to perform if Union is to be a playoff team in 1985. The offense, despite having an entire new backfield and receiving corps, has been performing up to Bagnoli's expectations also. Continued success with outstanding performances of both units seems likely. Bagnoli expects a tough game from the Ephmen despite last years drubbing. Avoiding over- confidence is a main concern for the Dutchmen who have lost their final games of the last two seasons to teams they expected to beat handily. Bagnoli holds high hopes of another playoff and cham- pionship year. 1985 UNION COLLEGE FOOTBALL STATISTICS 6 Gam€' 1\otals RUSH !NG Playe-r Gill:; Att tos Avg TD C011 YdsPerGn1 lvdd WalKPL b ~\I 4i0 4.~ • c 69.2 George Capozzl 6 71 32~ 4,6 3 ~4. < uaz:relJ. &hE'pherct • 3! 122 3.\' 1 c 30~:. M..LJ<..e Garg1ulo 6 ,, 112 2.u 3 l 1~.7 Cec •J a.r:..Laht. 6 2 75• 9.CJ I G 1.3 PASSING Player Grns Att Camp Pet Yds T!J Tnt YdsPerGm Mike Gargiulo 6 142 66 46.5 905 7 II l50.u Jay Wood 4 17 9 52.9 145 ' l 36. 2 Ea O'Lay 3 L 12 6 50.0 118 c 0 59.c RBCI!IVIt.G Player Gms Cts Yds Avg TO Con YdsPerGm CtsPerGm J .Lm LaFrance 6 31 ~13 l6.S 3 G 85., 5.2 Cecil Bnght 6 17 175 10.3 2 u 29.2 2.8 Peter Cohan 6 9 147 16.3 2 0 24., 1.5 ·rodd Wall<er 6 7 84 12.0 0 0 14.0 1.2 Mark Staehowiah 4 5 6JL 12.0 1 G 15.0 _.L.Z ,;cORING Player Gms TD, Pat·K Pat,-R Pat-P FG sa£ Pts PtsPerGm Todct Walker 6 4 0-0 o-o 0-0 o-v 0 24 (.II. Greg Sticka 5 r. 11-14 0-0 o-o 2-2 0 17 3.4 Mllte Gargiulo 6 3 o-o 0-1 l-2 o-u 0 20 3,3 J1m LaFrance 6 3 o-o U-0 o-o 0-0 0 18 3.0 George Capozzi 6 3 0-0 o-.o o-o 0-0 0 18 3.u oarrell Shepherd 4 2 (J-0 0-0 o-o v-v u 12 3,v Cecil Bnght 6 3 0-U 0-0 c-o 0-0 0 18 3.~ Peter Cohan 6 2 0-0 o-o o-o 1-~ u 15 3.u ..a,l4ke Henderson 4 0 7-~ o-n o-o 1-3 0 10 2.5 TEAM STAT IS TICS U!iiON OPPONENTS o.uerence Points 182 46 ·+136 Pirat Downs 123 63 +60 Rushing 66 22 +44 Passing 52 36 +16 Penalty 5 5 + 0 Pumbl ee I Lost 22/15 12/6 -10/-7 interceptions 9 25 +16 l'urnovera. 24 33 +9 ·I\otal Plays 474 382 +92 1otsl Y\rds 2377 1190 +1187 . ' v. No. 1 2 .. 5 6 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 25 26 27 28 29 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 43 44 45 46 47 48 50 51 52 53 54 55 56 56 58 59 60 61 62 63 64 65 66 67 68 69 70 71 73 74 75 76 77 78 80 80 82 82 83 84 85 86 87 88 89 90 -91 92 93 94 95 96 96 97 98 99 99 UNION COLLEGE ~~Dutchmen\ Name Todd Walker .. Jim LaFrance t4orace Gri ff.in Fat Salvador Steve Hayes Blake Henderson George McEvoy Ceci I Bright' Tim Valachovic Chris Hurcomb Tim Mclees lim Lucey Mark Stachowiah Mike Gargiulo Jeff Nolan Ed O'Day Joe Duffy Jay Wood Rick Pisciotta Joe Waters\' Steve Alves • Reinhard Walker .. • Tom Connolly Joe Guerrieri Alex Rita••tt George Capozzi • * tt Dale Bajcer'* Greg Sticka'* • Darrell Shepherd Phil Horn Chris Duffy Jeff Warner Mark Caruso Michael Goldstein Chris Armour Todd Harder Dave Harris Darin Rathbun Steve Mornce Todd Cocori ki s T.J. McManus Tracy Valachovic Louis Hughes* V1nce Liberti Chris Heyer John Johnson Pat Wright' .. ttt Dan Klinger Leonard Bates Matt Gregoire Marc Paquin' Chris Mohr Bob LoParo* Pat Cook James Brown .. Cliff Genge Jim Buley Gerry Campanelli''*ttt Kevin Ramundo't Bernie Thomas Allan Rappelyea William Smith Tim Ramundo'*t Chris Bowler' Kevin Fiala Sean Mclaughlin Mike McKenzie Steve Rooney• Ralph Acanfora Sean Duffy* Stephan Deptula* Bubba Koonce**tt Peter Cohan* Dave Morrison Greg Goetz Nick Capuano Ken Horan Rich Samuelson Michael Calderon! Bart Lehrman Hubert Robinson Mike Murphy George Fotiadis Anthony Valente***ttt Ron Davis Kyle Peck Rich Romer* Sherman Parrott\**t Mike VanHorn Bill Conklin Michael Ford Mike Sirowich Peter Corkery*** Craig Aaron William Floor Yr. Jr. So. Fr. Sr. Fr. Fr. So. So. So. So. Fr. Fr. So. So. So. Fr. Jr. So. So. Sr. Jr. Sr. Fr. Fr. Jr. Sr. Jr. Sr. So. So. Fr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Jr. Jr. Fr. So. Jr. Jr. Fr. Jr. Jr. Sr. Sr. Fr. So. Fr. So. Fr. Fr. Jr. Fr. Fr. Fr. Sr. Jr. Jr. So. Sr. Fr. So. Fr. Fr. Sr. So. Fr. Pos. Ht. Wt. RB 5'9 180 WR 5'8 170 WR 5'10 165 WR 5'7 160 RB 6'1 195 ss 6'0 175 WR 5'9 160 WR 6'0 190 QB 6'0 175 WR 5'8 165 s 6'2 175 RB 5'10 185 TE 6'2 210 QB 6'0 175 QB/P 6'0 190 QB 6'4 220 QB 6'0 185 QB 5'10 175 PB 6'0 185 ss 5'11 190 ss 5'10 195 DB 160 ss 195 WR 190 DB 180 FB 230 180 195 MG 5'10 OG 5'11 240 OG 6'2 235 OT 6'3 215 OG 6'0 225 c 6'0 240 OG 5'11 215 OT 6'2 250 DT 6'4 255 OT 6'2 300 DT 6'3 255 WR!K 6'2 205 DE 6'4 185 TE 6'3 225 WR 5'9 170 P/WR 5'11 155 DB 5'9 180 MG 5'7 205 TE 6'2 220 TE 6'1 185 DE 6'3 220 DE 6'3 210 MG 5'9 210 DE 6'0 190 DE 6'5 230 DE 6'3 210 DT 6'0 230 DT 6'3 215 TE 5'11 190 LC 6'0 218 LB 6'3 220 DE 6'2 225 DE 6'1 225 TE 6'0 190 Hometown Baltimore, MD Oxford, CT Baltimore, MD Batavia, NY Caroga Lake, NY Salt Lake City, UT Troy, NY Cliffwood, NJ Johnstown, NY Rutland, VT West Islip, NY Newburgh, NY Cheektowaga, NY Yorktown, NY Gales Ferry, CT Clifton Park, NY Bethel, CT Amesbury, MA Glen Head, NY Norwood, NJ W. Warwick, AI Bristol, CT Dumont, NJ Lorain, OH Endicott, NY Southbury, CT Lorain, OH Wethersfield, CT Buffalo, NY Brightwaters, NY Rye, NY Danbury, CT Waltham, MA Rye, NY Norwood, MA MA OH eroga, NY Grove, NJ Wanaque, NJ Darien, CT ohnstown. NY le, NY CT , NJ a, NY port, NY Springfield. NJ Swampscott, MA Buffalo, NY Schenectady, NY Allendale, NJ Wayne, NJ New Canaan, CT Pittsford, NY Painted Post, NY Amsterdam, NY Lake Grove, NY New City. NY Smithtown, NY Poughkeepsie, NY Ansonia, CT New City, NY Waltham, MA Fairport, NY Everett, MA Bloomingdale, NJ Troy, NY Carlstadt, NJ Waccabue, NY Hudson, MA Albany, NY Mendham, NJ Malden, MA Bethel, CT Dobbs Ferry, NY Stony Brook, NY Lynn, MA Southington, CT Norwood, NJ New Rochelle, NY Boxford, MA Eastchester, NY Shelton, CT Chatham, NY Pt. Jefferson, NY E. Greenbush, NY Hudson Falls, NY Rochester, NY Utica, NY Worcester, MA Oxford, CT Miford, CT Kingston, NY Marlboro, NY *Indicates number of varsity letters won; tlndlcates number of years as a starter. YdsPerGm 396.2 ~dsPerPlay 5.~ Penal ties/ids. 53/415 198,3 3.1 31/255 +197. 9 +1.9 -22/-ltiu COACHES: Head Coach·AI Bagnoli, Offensive Line· Fred Brown, Jim Schaefer, Receivers-Peter Brown, Running Backs·Larry CottrelL Quarterbacks-John Audino, Defensive Line-Mike Toop, Tom Plungls, Linebackers-Gary Reynolds, Secondary-A! Bagnoli, Defensive Ends-Bill Hess. Lnion's Defemive Depth Chart L. End L. Tackle 498 Peter Corkery 5, 6 2. 225 #94 Sherman Parrot! Middle Guard •90 A.nlhony Valente Sr :9 210 #99 Cr aog Aaron So 6 1 225 R End Sr 60 230 #76 Sean Duffy jr 5·4 255 1193 Ru:h Romer So 6 1 21~ #88 M1ke Murphy \' 6 3 2?.0 LOHB \21 Alex R1ta Jl ~ 10 18~ \41 Udr,n ~dlhbut1 •• 6 1 18~ Salety #21 Joe Waters 'ir 5 11 190 •22 Steve A1ve5 Jr 5 10 195 H4 Steve Rooney jr 511 215 R. Linebacker #52 Pal Wrrghl S• e·o. 200 1¥'2 Marc Paqurn So s·o 215 Safety U23 Re1nhard Walker Sr 5·9_ 160 U83 Blake Henderson Fr 5·0. 175 R. Tackle #78 Bubba Koonce Sr 5·3. 255 #95 M1ke VanHorn Fr 5·3. 215 k LlnebBcker #47 Lou•s Hughes Sr 5 10. 200 #58 Bob LoParo Jr 511 200 RDHB U29 Dale Ba1cer jr s·1o. 180 #84 R1ch Samuelson Fr 5·9. 180 Union's Offensive Depth Chart L. Tackle L. Guard Center R. Guard R. Tackle #64 Kev1n Ramundo Jr s·11 250 1168 Trm Ramundo #60 J1 m Brown #63 Gerry Campanelli #69 Chris Bowler Jr s·11. 240 Jr e·o. 205 Sr 6'0, 240 So, 6'2, 235 1177 Stefan Deptula Jr 5·2 300 #59 Pat Cook 1196 M1ke Ford #71 Sean Mclaughlin #73 Mike McKenz1e Split End #2 Jom LaFrance so s·a. 170 118 George McEvoy So s·e. 160 So 5·2 205 Fullback Flankar #9 Cec11 Bnght So 6'0. 190 #80 Peter Cohan Sr s·2. 205 #28 George Capozzr Sr 6\0. 230 1131 Greg St 1 cka Sr 5·10. 200 Fr 6\0. 220 so 5·o. 225 Quarterback #15 Mrke Garg1ufo So n·o. 175 #19 Jay Wood So s·1o. 175 1117 Ed O'Day Fr f.'4, 220 Jr s·o. 240 Halfback 111 Todd Walker Jr s·g. 180 1132 Darrell Shepherd So. 5\10. 180 Tight End #82 .Greg Goetz So. 6\3. 225 ~14 Mark StachoWiah So 5·2. 210

CONCORDIENSIS, Octo_ber 24,1985 PageE 1985 WILLIAMS FOOTBALL TEAM 1st row: D. McCarthy, Wa.tts, Taylor, Pawson, Morandi, Goodspeed, Norton, O'Connor, Morris, Jeffrey, Hollington, Ball, MacLeod, LHiey, Madden. 2nd row: Hickman, Nixon, Fearon, Ciolek, Miller, Franz, Hanclich, Boni, Rizzo, Shaw, Mac· Donnell, Edie; .Pitkin, Coyne, 3rd row: Russell, Powers, Wurm, B. Ryan, '88, Lawson, Churchill, Jepson, Meyer, McGinn, CoUins, Kelley, Povlsen. 4th row: Mike McLaughlin, Thompson, Montgomery, Clawson, Moe, Murphy, Holden, Walker, B. Ryan '89, Goldstein, Mark McLaughlin 5th row:. E. McCarthy, Andrew, Gallon, Gotti, Willey, Pollock, Hollender, Neuner, Fuller 1985 WILLIAMS COLUGE·FOOTBALL ROSTER NO NAHE CLASS pus. liE I GilT 1-'£ !GilT IIOMETOWN 5 Tom -Goodspeed 86 QB 5-10 lb6 Gt and Rap ids 1 Mich. 8 Rob Got tl 89 ., QB 6-0 190 Bronxville, New York 10 Rob Neuner 89 QB 6-2 180 Franklin Lakes, N.J. 11 Scott Powers 88 QB 6-2 177 Danvers, Mas~. 12 Kevin Morri-s 86 QB 6-0 172 Wes.tfield, N.J. 13 Bill Wurm 88 . DB 5-9 165 Sayville, NY 14 John Shaw 87 WR 5-11 180 Easton, Ma~and 15 Chri~ Jepson 88 WR 6-1 177 Ashburnham, Mass. 16 Chuck llanclich 87 DB 6-0 168 Hawthorne, NJ 17 Dave Clawson 89 SE/QB 6-0 165 Youngstown, NY 18 Ken Russell ali RB 5-10 176 Athens, Georgia 19 Tim Pachonka 89 DB 5-ll 170 Yonkers, New York 20 Rob Miller 87 RB 6-0 175 Merrick,. Ni' 21 Jerry Rizzo 87 ·nB 5-11 185 Natick, Mass. 22 Eric Moe 89 5-9 155 Chevy Chase, Maryland 23 Richant Fearon 6-0 185 Woodbridge, Conn. 24 Maurice Holden 180 Wilmington, Deiaware 25 Jay Hickman 190 Acton, Mass. 29 Dave Willey 70 Grand Rapids, Mich. 30 Dick Hollington 173 Shaker Heights, Ohio 31\' Tom O'Connor· 193 South Hadley, Mass, 32 Jeff Ulley Chevy Chase, Maryland 33 Mike McLaughlin West Seneca, NY 35 Bill A. Ryan Woodbridge, Conn. 36 \' Greg Norton E.Grand Rapids, Mich. 38 Gordon Pollock Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 39 Frank Morandi Hoosick Falls, NY 43 56 Greg 'taylor 86 c 6-2 220 Danvers, Mass. 58 Michael Harper 89 G/C 6-0 190 Minneapolis, Minn. 59 Jeff Bani 87 N/T 6-3 206 Williamstown, Mass. 60 Dan MacDonnell 87 LB 6-0 197 Chappaqua,,New York 61 Brad Ball 86 OG 6-2 216 Etna, New H·ampshire 62 Tony Fuller 89 K-G/N 5-9 185 Bethesda, Maryland 63 Jim Walker 88 OG 6-1 190 Newton, Mass. 64 Mark McLaughlin 89 OG 6-0 210 Chelmsford, Mass. 65 John Hadden 87 G/T 6-2 241 Bayport, New York 66 Steve lloll.ender 89 OT 6-2 190 Parlin, New Jer~~y 68 Bi 11 Ryan 89 N 6-1 205 Toprlie1d, Mas~ 70 Brian Nixon 87 DT 6-1 225 North Reading, Mass. 72 Taylor Watts 87 OT 6-5 220 Saratoga Springs, NY 73 Andy Coyne 88 OT 6-3 246 Summit, New_Jersey 7':i Joe l'hornpson 8,: DT 6-5 200 Atlanta, Georgi~ 77 Dext<•r Lawson j OT 6-5 240 Wenham, Mass. 78 'Joe McGinn OT 6-3 225 Foster, Rhode Island 79 Peter Dawson Q OT/G 6-2 216 Shaker lleights, Ohio 80 Jolul Ciolek 1 DE 6-2 185 South Hadley, ~~ss. 82 Andy Go1d!!t ein FB/LB 5-10 190 Rye Brook, New York 83 Rob. Coakley TE 6-1 198 Lenox, Mass. 84 Jim t'ranz i· DE 6-2 200 Ardsley, New York 86 C.Lewis Collins T-E 6-3 196 Signal Mtn. Tenn. 87 Gr\''.!l Kelley DT 6-0 201 Ccn te rville ,. tlass. 86 Eric Churchill a& DE 6-0 172 Grafton, Mass, 89 Mark Duff 8!11 DE 6-0 185 Byfield, Mass. 90 Ti tn Nurphy ~· DB 5-11 . 1115 Sparta, New JersPy 91 Andy J.l'ffrey WR 5-9 154 Short llilb, NJ 92 Ken MacLeod 86 ' N/T 6-1 202 Montchanin, Delaware COACHES: Head Coach-Bob Odell, Joe Dailey, Rich Tur.i, Dick Farley, AI Pearman, Walton Cueman. WILLIAMS' DEFENSIVE DEPTH CHART LDHB • • a • about the opponent Ephmen Preview At quarter back for Williams By SEAN NORTON is Kevin Morris. Against Tufts Sports Staff he went 13 for 28 for 131 yards This Saturday the undefeated Dutchmen go up against the Ephmen from Williams. Williams is only 2-2-1, but their tough defense could pose a problem for the Dutchmen. The Ephmen have given up an average of only 12.4 points per game w~ile allowing an average 133 yards on the ground and 101 yards in the air. and 1 interception. On the year, he is 31 out of 71 for 313 yards and two interceptions and 1 touchdown. C. Lewis Collins is Williams' leading receiver with 21 catches for 219 yards and has the team's lone passing touch- down reception. Jim Poulsen has caught nine passes for 97 yards, while Tom Godspeed comes in with eight receptions for 80 yards. ' ~ .r:. c. 0 1,/) WILLIAMS COLLEGE VARSITY FOOTBALL COACHING STAFF Left to Right: Joe Dailey, Rich Turi, Head Coach Bob Odell, Dick Farley, AI Pearman, Walton Cueman. The Williams College Eph- men would like nothing better than to spoil Union's Homecoming with a ·victory. Coach Bob Odell's squad, which holds a series record of 54-18-4 against Union since the teams Offensively Williams has scored nine touchdowns, eight on the ground and one in the air, and is averaging 124 rushing yards and 108 passing yards. The running game is led by Jay Hickman with 182 yards on 56 carries and 2 touchdowns, however Freshman Maurice Holden could be the biggest threat against the Dutchmen. Last week against Tufts, in a 7-7 tie, Holden gained 103 yards and scored William's only touch- down. · first met in 1887, is not used to losing to the Dutchmen. However, Union, which has won the last three meetings, has not lost to the Ephmen since Al Bagnoli took over the squad in 1981. 1985 WILLIAMS COLLEGE INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING G ATT ~ AVE PerG LONG TD O'Connor 4 40 116 2.9 2r ~ 02 Hickman 5 56 182 3.2 40 10 02 Powers 5 38 40 1.2 11 11 00 Holden 3 15 152 Meyer 1 17 37 2. 1 37 06 01 Miller 4 08 81 10.1 27 36 00 Mortis 2 16 34 2.1 17 19 00 Watts 1 01 01 1.0 01 01 00 WILLIAMS . 4 184 498 2.7 125 36 06 OPPONENT 4 159 516. 3.2 129 54 04 I'ASSING G ATT COMP INT PCT YDS PerG TD Powe·rs 4 6s ~ 06 '46 251 62.8 00 Morris 3 71 31 02 41 ' 313 43 01 WILLIAMS 4 108 48 07 44 423 106 01 OPPONENT 4 83 32 05 39 470 117.5 03 RECEIVING G NO PerG YDS AVE YDS/G LONG TO Collins 5 2i 4.5 219 10.2 46 20 01 Goodspeed 5 05 2.5 80 10.2 25.5 19 00 Poulsen 5 07 2.3 97 11.4 26.6 24 00 iJeffrey 2 02 2.0 25 12.5 25 14 00 Shaw 3 02 02 43 11.5 23 15 00 Coakley 4 05 1.6 47 9,4 15.6 22 00 O'Connor 4 06 2.0 11 1.8 3.6 11 00 WILLIAMS 4, 48 12 433 9.0 108.3 ')/,. 01 OPPONENT 4 24 08 340 1 ' 02 SCORING G TD FG PAT PAT2 s PTS O'Connor 4 2 0 -0- () 0 12 Hickman 4 2 0 0 0 0 12 Meyer 1 1 0 0 0 0 06 Nixon 4 1 0 0 0 0 06 Holden 2 2 0 0 0 0 06 Collins 4 l 0 0 0 0 06 Fuller 4 0 0 7 0 0 07 WILLIAMS 4 8 0 7 0 0 55 OPPOt;ENT 4 7 2 5 0 0 53 (Not all stats include Tufts game) WILLIAMS' OFFENSIVE DEPTH CHART Free Safety #39 Frank Morandi Sr. 5'10, 178 R. Linebackei' #55 Dan McCarthy Jr. 6'0, 201 L. Linebacker #60 Dan MacDonnell Jr. 6'0, 197 L. Halfback R. Tackle Center Tight End #30 Dick Hollington Sr.6'1,173 #16 Chuck Hanclich Jr. 6'0, 168 #22 Eric Moe Fr. 5'9, 155 RDHB #51 Scott Andrew Fr. 6'1, 19Q R..End #23 Rich Fearon So. 6'0, 185 Strong Safety #32 Jeff Lilley • Sr.6'11,1BO #13 Bill Wurm so. 5'9, 165 #21 Jerry Rizzo Jr. 5'11, 185 #44Jon Edie so. 5'10, 165 #36 Greg Norton Sr. 6'2, 205 #80 John Ciolek Jr.6'2,185 R. Tackle #59 Jeff Boni Jr. 6'3, 206 #87 Gregg Kelley So. 6'0, 201 Noseguard #48 Dave Cromptoh So. 6'0, 195 #92 Ken Macleod Sr. 6'1, 202 L. Tac!<le #70 Brian Nixon Jr.6'1,225 , #75 Joe Thompson Fr\. 6'5,.200 L.End #84Jim Franz Jr. 6'2, 200 #88 Eric Churchill so. 6'0, 172 ' #25 Jay Hickman #65 John Madden #56 Greg Taylor #49 Jim Poulsen Sr. 6'0, 190 Jr. 6'2, 241 Sr. 6'2, 220 Jr. 6'3, 204 #24 Maurice Holden #73 Andy Coyne #58 Mike Harper #45 Evan McCarthy Fr. 5'10, 180 So. 6'3, 246 Fr. 6'0, 190 Jr.6'1,182 R. Halfback R. Guard L. Guard Split End #5 Tom G.oodspeen #79 Pete Dawson #61 Brad Ball #86 Lewis Collins So. 6'3, 196 Sr. 6'10, 166 Sr. 6'2, 216 #78 Joe McGinn #91 Andy Jeffrey #63 Jim Walker So. 6'3, 225 #83 Rob Coakley Sr. 5'9, 154 Quarterback #12 Kevin Morris Sr. 6'0, 172 #11 Scott Powers So. 6'2, 177 so. 6'1, 190 - L. Tackle #72 Taylor Watts Jr. 6'5, 220 #77 Dexter lawson So. 6'5, 240 Sr. 6'1, 198 Fullback #31 Tom O'Connor Sr.6'0,193 #20 Rob Miller Jr. 6'0, 175

CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 PageE 1985 WILLIAMS FOOTBALL TEAM 1st row: D. McCarthy, Watts, Taylor, Dawson, Morandi, Goodspeed, Norton, O'Connor, Morris, Jeffrey, Hollington, Ball, MacLeod, Lil'ley, Madden. 2nd row: Hickman, Nixon, Fearon, Ciolek, Miller, Franz, Hanclich, Boni, Rizzo, Shaw, Mac· Donnell, Edie, Pitkin, Coyne, 3rd row: Russell, Powers, Wurm, B. Ryan, '88, Lawson, Churchill, Jepson, Meyer, McGinn, Collins, Kelley, Poulsen. 4th row: Mike McLaughlin, Thompson, Montgomery, Clawson, Moe, Murphy, Holden, Walker, B. Ryan '89, Goldstein, Mark McLaughlin 5th row: E. McCarthy, Andrew, Gallun, Gatti, Willey, Pollock, Hollender, Neuner, Fuller 1985 WILLIAMS COLLEGE FOOTBALL ROSTER NO NA!-!E CLASS PUS. liE! t:IIT 1-.TlGHT IILJM!·:TuWN ) Tom Good~peed tlb Q~ 5-10 1b6 Gx,md Rd~ld>, Mich. 8 Rub Got ti H9 QB 6-0 190 Bronxville, N~w York 10 Rub Neuner 89 QB b-2 180 Franklin Lakea, N .J • 11 Scott Powers 88 QB b-2 171 Danvers. Mu~::~. 12 K\vin Morrl s 86 QB b-0 172 Westfield, N.J. 13 Bill Wunn 88 ' DB 5-9 165 Sayville, NY 14 John Sh.1W 87 WR 5-ll 180 Easton, Maryland 15 Chris Jepson 88 WR b-1 177 Ashburnham, Ma~s. 16 Chuck ll.mclich 87 DB b-0 loB Hawthorne, NJ 17 Dave Clawson 89 SE/QB los Yo11ngs town, NY 18 Ken Russell 88 RB 176 Athens, Georgia 19 Tim Pachonka 89 DB 170 Yonkers, New York 20 Rob liiller 87 RB 175 Merrick, NY 21 Jerry Rizzo 87 DB 185 Natick, ~lass. 22 Eric Moe 89 DB 155 Chevy Chase, Maryland 23 Richanj Fearon LB/N 185 Woodbridge, Conn. 2~ Maurice Holden 180 Wilmington, Delaware 25 Jay 111 ckman 190 Acton, Mass. 29 Dave Willey 170 Grand Rapids, Mich. 30 Dick Hall ington 173 Shaker Heights, Ohio 31 fl Tom O'Connor 193 South Hadley, Mass. 32 Jeff Lilley 80 Chevy Chase, Maryland 33 Mike McLaughlin loles t Seneca, NY 35 Bill A. Ryan Woodbridge, Conn. 36 • Greg Norto<l E.Grand Rapids, Mich . 38 Gordon Po 11 ock Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 39 Frank Morandi Hoosick Falls, NY 43 86 6-2 220 56 Greg Taylor c Danvers, 58 Michael Harper 89 G/C 6-0 190 Minneapolis, Minn. 59 Jeif Bani 87 N/1 6-3 206 Williamstown, Mass. 60 Dan MdcDonnell 87 LB 6-0 197 Chappaqua, New York 61 Brad llall 86 OG 6-2 216 Etna, New Hampshire 62 Tony Fuller 89 K-G/N 5-9 185 Bethesda, Maryland 63 Jim Walker 88 OG 6-1 190 Newton, Mass. fi4 Mark McLaughlin 89 OG 6-0 210 Chelmsford, Mass. 65 John Hadden 87 G/T 6-2 241 Bayport, New York 66 Stew llnllender 89 OT 6-2 190 Parlin, New Jer~ey 68 Bi 11 Ry.m BY N 6-l 205 Tops-field, Mass_. 70 Brian Nixon 87 DT 6-1 225 North Reading, Mass. 72 Taylur Watts 87 or 6-5 220 Saracoga Springs, NY 73 Andy Coyne 88 OT 6-3 246 Summit, New~Jersey 75 Joe lhornpson 89 DT 6-5 200 Atlanta, Georgia 77 Dext,•r Lawson ~ OT 6-5 240 Wenham, Mass. 78 Joe McGinn OT 6-3 225 Foster, Rhode Island 79 Peter Dawson OT/G 6-2 H6 Shaker Heights, Ollio 80 Jo1Ul Ciolek DE 6-2 185 South Hadley, ~~ss. 82 Andy Goldstein FB/LB 5-10 190 Rye Brook, New York 83 Rob Coakley 1E b--1 198 Lenox, Mass. 84 Jim Franz i· DE 6-2 200 Ardsley, New York 86 C. Lewis Collins T-E 6-3 19b Signal Mtn. Tenn. 87 Grc!'.!; 1-:elley DT 6-0 201 Centerville, tlass. 88 Eric Churchill B~ DE b-0 172 Grafton, Mass, 89 Marl< Duff 89i DE 6-0 185 Byfield, Mass. 90 Tim ~\nrphy !)~ oa 5-11 185 Sparta, NPw Jers~y 91 Andy Jdfrey 86 WR S-9 !54 Short llll1s, NJ 92 Ken M•1cLeod 86 N/T 6-1 202 Montchanin, Delaware COACHES: Head Coach·Bob Odell, Joe Dailey, Rich Turi, Dick Farley, AI Pearman, Walton Cueman. WILLIAMS' DEFENSIVE DEPTH CHART LDHB R. Linebacker L. Linebacker ... about the opponent Ephmen Preview At quarter back for Williams By SEAN NORTON is Kevin Morris. Against Tufts Spm1s Staff he went 13 for 28 for 131 yards This Saturday the undefeated Dutchmen go up against the Ephmen from Williams. Williams is only 2-2-1, but their tough defense could pose a problem for the Dutchmen. The Ephmen have given up an average of only 12.4 points per game while allowing an average 133 yards on the ground and 101 yards in the ai-r. and 1 interception. On the year, he is 31 out of 71 for 313 yards and two interceptions and 1 touchdown. C. Lewis Collins is Williams' leading receiver with 21 catches for 219 yards and has the team's lone passing touch- down reception. Jim Poulsen has caught nine passes for 97 yards, while Tom Godspeed comes in with eight receptions for 80 yards. 0 +- 0 .t::. 0. 0 fJ) WILLIAMS COLLEGE VARSITY FOOTBALL COACHING STAFF Left to Right: Joe Dailey, Rich Turi, Head Coach Bob Odell, Dick Farley, AI Pearman, Walton Cueman. Offensively Williams has scored nine touchdowns, eight on the ground and one in the air, and is averaging 124 rushing yards and 108 passing yards. The running game is led by Jay Hickman with 182 yards on 56 carries and 2 touchdowns, however Freshman Maurice Holden could be the biggest threat against the Dutchmen. Last week against Tufts, in a 7-7 tie, Holden gained 103 yards and scored William's only touch- down. The Williams College Eph- men would like nothing better than to spoil Union's Homecoming with a victory. Coach Bob Odell's squad, which holds a series record of 54-18-4 against Union since the teams first met in 1887, is not used to losing to the Dutchmen. However, Union, which has won the last three meetings, has not lost to the Ephmen since AI Bagnoli took over the squad in 1981. 1985 WILLIAMS COLLEGE INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS RUSHING O'Connor Hickman Powers Holden Meyer Miller Morris Watts WILLIAMS OPPONENT PASSING G l'owers 4 Morris 3 WILLIAMS 4 OPPONENT 4 RECEIVING G Collins 5 Goodspeed 5 Poulsen 5 ;Jeffrey 2 Shaw 3 Coakley 4 O'Connor 4 WILLIAMS 4 OPPONENT 4 SCORING O'Connor Hickman Meyer Nixon Holden Collins Fuller WILLIAMS OPPONENT G ATT YDS 4 40 116 5 56 182 5 38 40 3 15 152 17 37 AVE 2:9 3.2 I • 2 2 • l PerG ~ 40 I l LONG _1_3_ 10 1 I 06 TD 02 02 00 01 4 08 81 I 0. 1 37 27 1 7 0 I 36 00 2 1 4 4 16 34 2 • 1 01 01 1.0 184 498 2. 7 159 516 3.2 ATT {0' 71 108 83 NO 21 05 07 02 02 05 06 48 24 G 4 4 1 4 2 4 4 4 4 COMP INT 30 06 31 02 48 07 32 05 PerG YDS 4. 5 219 2. 5 80 2. 3 97 2.0 25 02 43 1.6 47 2. 0 1 1 I 2 433 08 340 TD FG PAT 2 0 0 2 0 0 l 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 7 8 0 7 7 2 5 PCT 12 5 129 46 4 1 44 39 AVE 10.2 10.2 11.4 12.5 11.5 9.4 1.8 9. 0 I I I 9 01 36 54 YDS 251 313 423 470 YDS/G 46 25.5 26.6 25 23 15. 6 3.6 108.3 PAT2 s -0- 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 (Not all stats include Tufts game) 00 00 Ob 04 PerG 62.8 43 106 117 • 5 LONG 20 19 24 14 15 22 11 ?b. PTS 1 2 1 2 06 06 06 06 07 55 53 WILLIAMS' OFFENSIVE DEPTH CHART TD 00 01 01 03 TD 01 00 00 00 00 00 00 01 02 Free Safety #39 Frank Morandi #55 Dan McCarthy #60 Dan MacDonnell L. Halfback R. Tackle Center Tight End #30 Dick Hollington Sr.6'1,173 Sr. 5'10, 178 Jr.6'0,201 Jr. 6'0, 197 #16 Chuck Hanclich #22 Eric Moe #51 Scott Andrew #23 Rich Fearon Jr. 6'0, 168 Fr. 5'9, 155 Fr. 6'1, 190 So. 6'0, 185 RDHB R.End R. Tackle Strong Safety #32 Jeff Lilley Sr. 6'11, 180 #13 Bill wurm So. 5'9, 165 #21 Jerry Rizzo Jr. 5'11, 185 #44 Jon Edie So. 5'10, 165 #36 Greg Nor ton Sr. 6'2, 205 #80 John Ciolek Jr. 6'2, 185 #59 Jeff Boni Jr. 6'3, 206 #87 Gregg Kelley so. 6'0, 201 Noseguard #48 Dave Crompton So. 6'0, 195 #92 Ken MacLeod Sr. 6'1, 202 L. Tackle #70 Brian Nixon Jr. 6'1, 225 #75 Joe Thompson Fr. 6'5,200 L.End #84JimFranz Jr. 6'2,200 #88 Eric Churchill So. 6'0, 172 #25 Jay Hickman #65 John Madden #56 Greg Taylor 1149 Jim Poulsen Sr. 6'0, 190 Jr. 6'2, 241 Sr. 6'2, 220 Jr. 6'3, 204 #24Maurice Holden #73 Andy Coyne #58 Mike Harper 1145 Evan McCarthy Fr. 5'10, 180 So. 6'3, 246 Fr. 6'0, 190 Jr. 6'L 182 R. Hal.fback R. Guard L. Guard Split End #5 Tom Goodspeen #79 Pete Dawson #61 Brad Ball 1186 Lewis Collins Sr. 6'10, 166 Sr. 6'2, 216 So. 6'3, 196 #91 Andy Jeffrey #63 Jim Walker 1178 Joe McGinn 1183 Rob Coakley So. 6'3, 225 Sr. 5'9, 154 Quarterback #12 Kevin Morris Sr. 6'0, 172 #11 Scott Powers So. 6'2, 177 So. 6'1, 190 L. Tackle #72 Taylor Watts Jr. 6'5, 220 #77 Dexter lawson So. 6'5, 240 Sr. 6'1, 198 Fullback #31 Tom O'Connor Sr.6'0,193 1120 Rob Miller Jr. 6'0, 175

Page F CONCORDIE.NSJS, October 24, 1985 ·' . ' TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE! £:~~T~l2 STAt;~ ()~LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382'·5493 - ' PHONES: 372-7270 370-373!5 .. I F\EATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT ., WELCOME ALUMNI I COR .• UNION STR.EET a VAN ANTWERF' RC. SC!-IENECTACV. N. V. _ VIA VENETO CAFE Roma Appian Way Invites UNION COLLEGE ALUMNAE Fri. and Sat. Dinner at 5 p.m. Specials Include - All tender veal dishes $7.99 All fresh shrimp dishes · $10.99 All domestic beer 50( All entrees include Homemade pasta & bread *mixed drinks--$1.00 *and more! Hor d'oevres served all night at the ba.r Old and New Students Always Welcome 1841 Van Vranken *Special Sunday Dinners: Homecooked Ital-ian Special-ties PAP A · · ,___ -~ CICCO'S PIZZA ':~ .. .... The' 198.5 YEARBOOK .is·herel!, Pick Up Yours on Thurs., 10/24· from 2: 30-4 pm or Fri., 10/25 trom 1-4 pm 3rd floor- Old Chapel Please Bring Your Receipt WE DELIVE-R FREE. 374-4332- COMPARE AND SA VEl! Round 16\ or 8 cut Pizza (Incl. Tax.) ~ . PAPA CICCO'S. $5.06 DOMINO'S $6.75 CAPPELLO'S $6812 THE S.TATION $6.40 Each Topping $1.00 $1.25 $1.07 $1.00 BUY THE BEST PIZZA ATTHENESTPRICE! ': ' ''Not Just Your Average. Pizza Place'' Prices are for a Pizza Delivered to Union College! COLLECT OUR COUPONS AND SAVE THEM FOR FREE PIZZA OR BEER FREE 32 OZ. SODAS EVERY SUNDAY with purchase of $5.00 or more • . ..,.,.,.~....,._......,_,.,_...,~•-•-...,~>w.-w~~-,...,..,.,._.,,.~.,,.n-••••-~-\-· ,.,. ... ~ ........ t ·• \

CONCORDIEJVSlS, October 24, 1985 PageG .. College Press Service FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT ~~ Phone: 393-5440/393·5441 Speeialize in Cantonese, Szechuan & Hunan Hours: Sun-Thu 11:30nl0:00 Fri-Sat 11: 3(H1 :00 . Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In .. We preJNire our foods with •••. Just a Little Bit of Luck and a Who/~ Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only W /Student I. D. · · 183 Nott.Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn For The Times· Of Your Life! Presents Its An.nual HOMEC-OMING CABARET/ SATURDAY, .OCT. 26TH -Act. __ , __ Evan Pickus -Act2- Dave Provost -M.C.- The class of '85 returns with a special mystery MC- a legend in his own time!!! Shows at 7:30 & 10:00 pm Tickets on sale Now $1 • 50 at Old Chapel • 1 ~~ Floor Offering a unique and varied menu, specializing in prime rib. charbroiled steaks, veal and fresh seafood. Burgers, pasta, omelettes, salads, and hearty sandwiches ore also outstanding. served daiiy from 11 :30 a.m. Dinner seJVed Monday-Friday 5-10 p.m. Saturday fil 11 p.m. Sunday 4-9 p.m. · Ligl1t D_ining in our popular Greenhouse and outdoor deck 11:30 a.m.-12:30 a.m. -~~. . i ' 1 Sunday Banquet Brunch - in the Greenhouse 11 :30 a.m.-3 p.m. ~lif.fJ!i~·g:·~~~-=-==· Enjoy Cocktails Private Banquet P.oom Mojor Credit Cards Open 7 days a week 56 Wolf Road Opposite Colonie Center 459-5110 til 2:30a.m\ Sunday-Wednesday 4:00a.m. Thursday-Saturday a:Che ~fiberr~ J3C)G . There are still a few 1985 Yearbooks available ... Get them while they last!/ -$30.- See Mrs. Marra - Student Activities Office - 3rd Floor Old Chapel To CAPPELLO'S Come In - Try Our Pizza! Breakfast .. Lunch -Dinner r·------------·------~--·---------------~ $1.00 OFF $1.00 OFF ON ALL 8-12-24 CUT PIZZA With This Coupon Expires Dec. 30 --CALL US: FR'~ DELIVERY ~-------------------------~-------------' TEL.#J46•J155~ - 403 UN\ON ST.- ~ Try Our Pastas, Calzones Hot & Cold Italian Subs) Buffalo Chicken Wings ... Nef\R Utnot-~ CoLLE:G-c- ~ i

PageH CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 APICTORAL HOMECOMINGS . . .. • . ... \ .. • • PAST • ~ • • •• • . .. - C) - \0 ::r 0. 0 0' -< 0 Ql. $. o.. (j) , c 0' t1) . \\'· Po He Bu I COl Ad Jol re! Th COl av Pi dil '''I ev J 19: tic fa1 SE fh hB m d~ SE m in• te at di th w. pi Sc c~ 8( pi ri til m pl w Cl bl

PageH CONCORDIENSIS, October 24, 1985 APICTORAL '.-'' ,.,.-. HOMECOMINGS PAST c - \0 :::r 0 - 0 0\ -< 0 Qj < 0: G> ..... c 0\ I'!) ..... p H B CC AI J< re T C( a· p di \' I r t r I ' ( 1

- Hallowee11 . '85 Bulk Rate U .8. Postage !_laid Permit N9. 215 Schenectady. N.Y. 1230& CXV No.6 '\0 ::r 0 0 0\ -< 0 QJ ~. 0. G'l ... c 0\ ~· Power was cut <>ff to the eastern part of Union's campus Monday. Hence this sign was ~posted on the Science and Engineering Building. 721 gi,ven in 7 weeks: ., Schenectady., New York Power By LINDA·RAFFAELE Editor-in-chief On Monday morning at ap- proximately 9:30a.m. electrical service to the eastern part of the campus was temporarily cut off. The power outage affected the Science and Engineering Building Achilles Rink, Steinmetz Hall, Bailey Hall, Butterfield Hall, the Fieldhouse, and Alumni Gym . According to Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, the problem resulted after one of. the splices on the feeder cable for that part of the campus malfunctioned. He explained that the splice ties two elec- tri~al lines together, and if moisture gets under the splice, Out on it can cawe an explosion in the manhole. Fortunately, the explosion occurred in a manhole further up campus so nothing dangerous occurred in .any of th~ l>ltildings. October 31, 1985 Campus classes in that section of the campus were cancelled anyway. Some afternoon classes were held if there was enough daylight in the room. Hill said that the electrical system on campus is not to b€ blamed fortne incident and is in good working order. Apparently, the Niagara Mohawk system that feeds the campus had a surge of elec- tricity in the system at abmrt 9:30 a.m., and this is what touched off the explosion in th~ manhole. Parking Tickets Abound The students who were in the building at the time ofthe power failul\e weie evacuated until the cause of the problem could be determined. Some thought that there wasa fil\e in the Computer Center becallSe smoke was seen coJTiing 611t of Steinmetz Hall. Whl\t , actually happened, howevel\ was that the in- stallati~n and coating on the wiring of the motor generator in the basement of Steinmetz became overheated and began to smoke. Normally, three lines of power feed the motor generat()r, but, because of the problem in the manhole, one line of p<>wer was cut off. The generat<>r, therefore, was being fed by onl:y two lines of power, and could not handle the loss in power. This caused the wiring to smoke, IJut nothing caught on fire. The loss of power was a11 inconvenience for many people. Athletic Department was concerned about the ice melting in Achilles Rink, the showers in the Fieldhouse had no hot water. By MONIQUE HARRISON Staff Because of recent campus construction, Vice President of Administration and ~inance , John Hauser has organized a restructuring of parking space. This restructuring should not be confused with an elimination of available parking. According to Pierce Fitzgerald, assistant director of S(;Jcurity and safety, ''There is ample parking for everyone.\ · However, as of October 14, 19B5, 721 parking violation tickets have been issued to faculty staff and students by the Security Department. Thirty- five facu1ty, staff and students have accumulated three or more unpaid tickets. The department of Safety and Security recently issued a memo to the campus stating its intention to enforce parking regulations more strictly. The parking dilemma may be attributed to the ignorance of or disregard for regulations or to the. inconvenience of spa~es wh1ch, some claim, lack proltimity to desired locations. Said one junior who lives off campus, \Right now, I owe Security $160.00, and I never plan on paying them. I think it's ridiculous that I get some of the tickets that I do. Students are not to blame for . the present parking situation. I don't think we should be expected to compensate for the College's lack of planning. n Parking Rules The major rules and regulations for parking are: no parking on campus roadways, no parking in yellow .. marked ~as; .. no reservation of spots f()r any individuals. Spots are a9'ailable · to co~m.uting students in faculty lots between 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. weekdays and anytime weekends. Students or faculty may not park in visiting admissions lots between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Violation of the following regulations will result in the towing of the following vehicles at the owner's elqlense: Any vehicle having more than three unpaid tickets, unauthorized vehicles parked in designated lots regardless of the number of tickets received and vehicles blocking fire hydrants or parked in fire lanes-ie. any campus roadway. Fitzgerald noted the effort the Security Department takes to avoid issuing tickets. Mainly, this effort consists of continuous calling of owners whose vehicles are parked in prohibited areas and the aburi.dance of warning tickets issued. Security hopes that this effort will promote a better awareness of parking regulations. The security of- ficers do not keep track of the number of warning tickets issued to each car. Fitzgerald claims, \Our thing is not to write tickets but to get com- pliance with parking regulations.\ Yet students still complain about_ the ability to receive many tickets with ease. One student claims that ''too many areas on campus are am- biguous such as the annex between the tennis courts and the humanities building.\ Another student asks, \Can residents park anywhere other than behind the residential dorms.\ The following is a list of the designated parking areas: Student Parking Areas-Alpha Delta Pbi, Chi Psi, rear Sigma Phi, Smith House, Fox· Davidson, West College, Rich- mond House, Webster House, Potter, Raymond, Edwards, Hickock, Lamont House 5 p.m. through 8 a.m. and weekends all day; Faculty-Staff Parking Areas-Seward-Nott Lot, North Entry Lot, Alumni Field House, Lamont House and Wells House Monday through Friday bet- ween 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., Administration Lot, and West; Visitor Parking Areas- Seward-Nott Lot, Alumni Fieldhouse, North Entry Lot, Lamont House, rear South .. College, Wells Lot, and Administration Lot. ' Power started being restored at 5:35 p.m. Monday night. Hill estimated that all power was back on b:y 6 p.m. He said that Continuiiig EdtJcation students were mtified that the power was rest.1lt'ed, but most evening Also, computer students ha.d to wait until midnight for the computers to be turned back on. Louis Tremante, assistant director of the Computer Center, said \This is just an unforeseen incident that we dealt with as rapidly as we could to get power back.\ In conclusion, Hill believes that \the problem was taken care of quickly, and no one was injured.\ The situation was not a dangerous one, \it just created a lot of extra work.\ Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity celebrate after President Morris awards them ttu;- Stephen p. Brown Memorial Trophy at ttle Homecoming Game. Robert Klein Reviewed -pa.ge 12- Ruggers Finish Season -page 18-·

Hallowee11 '85 Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 • ,f...- ....__,. ? CXV No.6 Schenectady., New York October 31, 1985 \0 :::r 0 - 0 0\ \< 0 QJ < 0: G> • c 0\ 11) • Power was cut off to the eastern part of Union's campus Monday. Hence this. sign was posted on the Science and Engineering Building. 721 given in 7 weeks: Power By LINDA RAFFAELE Editor-in-chief On Monday morning at ap- prorimately 9:30a.m. electrical service to the eastern part of the campus was temporarily cut off. The power outage affected the Science and Engineering Building Achilles Rink, Steinmetz Hall, Bailey Hall, Butterfield Hall, the Fieldhouse, and Alumni Gym . According to Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, the problem resulted after one of the splices on the feeder cable for that part of the campus malfunctioned. He explained that the splice ties two elec- trical lines together, and if moisture gets under the splice, Out on it can cause an explosion in the manhole. Fortunately, the explosion occurred in a manhole further up campus so nothing dangerous occurred in any of the buildings. Campus classes in that section nf the campus were cancelled anyway. Some afternoon classes were held if there was enough daylight in the room. Hill said that the electrical \This is just an unforseen incident that we dealt with as rapidly as we could to get power back.\ -Tremante system on campus is not to be blamed for the incident and is in good working order. Apparently, the Niagara Mohawk system that feeds the campus had a surge of elec- tricity in the system at about 9:30 a.m., and this is what touched off the explosion in the manhole. Parking Tickets Abound The students who were in the building at the time of the power failure were evacuated until the cause of the problem could be determined. Some thought that there was a fire in the Computer Center because smoke was seen coming out of Steinmetz Hall. What actually happened, however, was that the in- stallation and coating on the wiring of the motor generator in the basement of Steinmetz became overheated and began to smoke. Normally, three lines of power feed the motor generator, but, because of the problem in the manhole, one line of power was cut off. The generator, therefore, was being fed by only two lines of power, and could not handle the loss in power. This caused the wiring to smoke, but nothing caught on fire. The loss of power was an inconvenience for many people. Athletic Department was concerned about the ice melting in Achilles Rink, the showers in the Fieldhouse had no hot water. By MONIQUE HARRISON Staff Because of recent campus construction, Vice President of Administration and Finance , John Hauser has organized a restructuring of parking space. This restructuring should not be confused with an elimination of available parking. According to Pierce Fitzgerald, assistant director of security and safety, \There is ample parking for everyone.\ However, as of October 14, 1985, 721 parking violation tickets have been issued to faculty staff and students by the Security Department. Thirty- five facu1ty, staff and students have accumulated three or more unpaid tickets. The department of Safety and Security recently issued a memo to the campus stating its intention to enforce parking regulations more strictly. The parking dilemma may be attributed to the ignorance of or disregard for regulations or to the inconvenience of spaces which, some claim, lack proximity to desired locations. Said one junior who lives off campus, \Right now, I owe Security $160.00, and I never plan on paying them. I think it's ridiculous that I get some of the tickets that I do. Students are not to blame for the present parking situation. I don't think we sho\lld be expected to compensate for the College's lack of planning.\ Parking Rules The major rules and regulations for parking are: no parking on campus roadways, no parking in yellow-marked m:,eas, no reservation of spots for any individuals. Spots are available to co~muting students ill faculty lots between 5 p.m. and 7 a.m. weekdays and anytime weekends. Students or faculty may not park in visiting admissions lots between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. Monday through Saturday. Violation of the following regulations will result in the towing of the following vehicles at the owner's expense: Any vehicle having more than three unpaid tickets, unauthorized vehicles parked in designated lots regardless of the number of tickets received and vehicles blocking fire hydrants or parked in fire lanes-ie. any campus roadway. Fitzgerald noted the effort the Security Department takes to avoid issuing tickets. Mainly, this effort consists of continuous calling of owners whose vehicles are parked in prohibited areas and the abundance of warning tickets issued. Security hopes that this effort will promote a better awareness of parking regulations. The security of· ficers do not keep track of the number of warning tickets issued to each car. Fitzgerald claims. \Our thing is not to write tickets but to get com· pliance with parking regulations.\ Yet students still complain about tlle ability to receive many tickets with ease. One student claims that \too many areas on campus are am- biguous such as the annex between the tennis courts and the humanities building.\ Another student asks, \Can residents park anywhere other than behind the residential donns.•• The following is a list of the designated parking areas: Student Parking Areas-Alpha Delta Phi, Chi Psi, rear Sigma Phi, Smith House, Fox- Davidson, West College, Rich- mond House, Webster House, Potter, Raymond, Edwards, Hickock, Lamont House 5 p.m. through 8 a.m. and weekends all day; Faculty-Staff Parking Areas-Seward-Nott Lot, North Entry Lot, Alumni Field House, Lamont House and Wells House Monday through Friday bet- ween 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., Administration Lot, and West; Visitor Parking Areas- Seward-Nott Lot, Alumni Fieldhouse, North Entry Lot, Lamont House, rear South College, Wells Lot, and Administration Lot. Power started being restored at f): 35 p.m. Monday night. Hill estimated that all power was back on by 6 p.m. He said that Continuing Education students were notified that the power was restored, but most evening Also, computer students had to wait until midnight for the computers to be turned back on. Louis Tremante, assistant director of the Computer Center, said \This is just an unforeseen incident that we dealt with as rapidly as we could to get power back.\ In conclusion, Hill believes that \the problem was taken care of quickly, and no one was injured.\ The situation was not a dangerous one, \it just created a lot of extra work.\ >- .n ... ~.._..~~~!2 ---- l~lll .• 0 m u _,.ca. ~' Members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity celebrate after President Morris awards them the Stephen p. Brown Memorial Trophy at the Homecoming Game. Robert Klein Reviewed -page 12- Ruggers Finish Season -page 18-

Page 2 CONCORDIENSJS, October 31, 1985 Jay Bebb, Resident Director in Fox, ta11<s about the recent van- dali~rn in the dorm. Fox Damaged By Vandals :ByGREGFAY Staff One or more vandals invaded Fox Dormitory Friday and Saturday nights, October 17 and 18, destroying the heavy glass plate of Fax's north front door, ripping the annunciator panel from the wall and smashing light bulbs, emptying garbage onto Fox south's second floor, and tearing down memo boards from doors on that floor. Jay Bebb, Area Coordinator- Resident Director in Fox, is quite certain that the glass plate, which was cracked on Friday night and smashed in on Saturday night, was vandalized both times before midnight, as was the annunciator panel, on Saturday night. He guessed that second floor Fox north was littered after midnight Satur- day. Although Bebb had all Fox R.A. 's write up a report of the vandalism, so far, he has no ·SUSpects. tained therein for which responsibility cannot be specifically fixed.\ Last year, ~esidence Life almost had to resort to billing Fox residents because .of the extensive vandals1m, and does not want to have to bill innocent residents this year. McCullough Effect Studied He explained that the housing contract for dorm residents includes a provision whereby, as quoted from the . Student Handbook, \The cost of repairs and-or replacement shal-l be assessed against the individuals involved (in Ute vandalism) or equally against residents of a building, wing, or floor, as appropriate, in the event of damage to corridors, common rooms, equipment,- . furniture, fixtures, or other effects con- Bebb does not see vandalism as a major problem this year. He stated that, obviously, \the students are a primary concern with me.\ He urges all dorm residents to get into a habit that he thinks has not been developed enough: ''I urge everybody to just lock the doors in your rooms,\ before going to sleep. Furthermore, he -urges any student with information about any vandalism at Union to speak to his or her R.A., Dean Wood, or himself. All in- formation would be kept con- fidential. By KELLY Me NEIL Contributor Dr. Savoy, a researcher at the Roland Institute for Science in Cambridge, Massachusetts, recently spoke on \The McCollough Effect: Exploring a Perceptual Mystery.\ The McCollough Effect, named after J. McCollough in 1965, addresses memory and visual perception of colors and focuses on patterns of specific orientations and frequencies of colors. The effect is analagous to seeing a flashbulb flash at one time and retaining the \image\ of the flashbulb seconds or even minutes later. The McCollough Effect, however, has the potential to last for several hours, days, or even weeks; the duration of the effect is different for each in- dividual. In order to research the McCollough Effect on in- dividuals, an intricate com- puter system has been devised which allows scientists to obtain quantitative measures of the effect. Through the research and calculations of many scientists, several theories have been offered to explain the McCollough Effect. One such theory proposes that the nerve cells involved in visual perception become fatigued after receiving light patterns for an extended period of time. The theory also suggests that the nerve cells experience a rebound effect so that the \message\ continues to be relayed over the path of nerve cells. Another theory indicates that fatigue at the eyes' retinas results from the frequency and intensity ot the light. Retina fatigue occurs primarily because people have a tendency to look at the brightest section in a light pattern rather than the dimmer section. Still another theory argues that certain ·cells in the brain respond to specific colors. When these cells become fatigued, other \color cells\ look to find · colors and therefore produce an after image. The McCollough Effect mainly considers frequencies and intensities of light and the ways these factors affect visual perception. Although a complex concept which is difficult to understand without a knowledge of upper-level physics and psychology, the McCollough Effect remains of interest even to those with little or no exposure to the subject. A contented Dutchman crowd. / '-- <11 ..0 .;::) '-- 0 \0 > ru Q >- ..0 0 +- 0 .s::: a_ What's Up Around CampuS AIDS Special to Air As everyone knows, an early frost cuts off a garden in its prime. There is another kind of frost at large in this country. This one cuts off people in their prime. On Monday, November 13, NBC will air \An Early Frost,\ the first made~for=television movie about AIDS. Help in- crease the awareness of your friends and neighbors by watching the reactions of one American family as it responds to the knowledge that their son is seriously ill with AIDS. Help the cause of AIDS education and counseling by hosting a small benefit to watch \An Early Frost\ and discuss its meaning. Invite your friends to watch the movie together; ask everyone who attends to chip in $5, $10, $25 or more to help thaw the frost. Proceeds from your party can be donated to the AIDS Council of Northeastern New York, 332 Hudson Ave., Albany, NY 12210, and are tax-deductible. Checks should be made payable to CDGCC-AIDS. If you would like to host a party and would like in- formation on organizing a party, please call the AIDS Council at 434-4686. American Maritime Studies Students are invited to an informational meeting by the Williams College~Mystic Seaport Program in American Maritime Studies. The presentation will be on Wed~ nesday, 13 November, at Noon, in the Milano Lounge. The program offers students a challenging opportunity to focus one semester of their studies on the sea, and on our relationship with it in the past, present and future. Students live in cooperative houses at Mystic Seaport Musewn, the nation's leading maritime musewn, where the program takes advantage of that in- stitution's outstanding maritime collections, exhibits, library, marine laboratory, and coastal location. Students are offered courses in American maritime history, marine biology or oceanography, maritime literature and art, and a multi- disciplinary seminar in the uses of the sea. In addition students develop new maritime skills tmder professional instruction, including boatbuilding, celestial navigation, and smalloboat handling. Each semester, students spend ten days off- shore aboard the schooner R-V WESTWARD, undertaking marine research and gaining experience on board a large sailing vessel. Communication and Power The Union College Office .of Student Affairs will present a year-long series of talks and discussions on Sex, Intimacy and Friendship. The first in the series, a talk on ''Sexual Communication and Power,\ py Dr. Andrea Parrot, a professor at Cornell University; will be held next Monday, November 4. This talk will begin at 6:30 p.m. in HU 019. Parrot has taught numerous courses on human sexuality at Cornell' and has written ex- tensively on social attitudes affecting sexual behavior. Her talk will address com- munication in relationships between college men and women, the dynamics of relationships, a,nd con- temporary issues and problems, including acquain- tence rape and prevention strategies. The series will involve a five- part presentation of the following topics: \Sexual Conununication and Power,\ presented by Dr. Andrea Parrot, Cornell University, Monday, November 4, Hwnanities 019, 6:30 p.m. \Initiating and Maintaining Intimate Relationships,\ by Dr. Donn Byrne, SUNY Albany, Tuesday, January 21, Hale House, 7:00 p.m. ''Sexually Transmitted Diseases: Questions and Answers,\ by Dr. Bernard McEvoy, M.D. Tuesday, February 19, HEile House, 7:00 p.m. \Sexual Issues of-College Students,\ presented by Lorna Sorrel, MSW, Yale University, Monday, April 7, Hale House, 7:00p.m. \AIDS presented by the New York State AIDS Institute Tuesday, April22, Hale House, 7:00p.m. All lectures in this series presented by the office of Student Affairs will be open to all Union students, faculty and staff. The Student Forum '85-'86 Minutes Meeting: No.5, October21, 1985 Members Presents: C. Siler, S. Moss, K. Keaveney, A. George, J. Mountain, M. Coleman, S. Ference, T. Dimmick, S. Lipsky, M. Bradley, K. Siegel, R. Allen, G. Bolster, D. Cohen. Members Absent: B. Bernell, P. Virnich, R. Gross, A. Carrel Non-members Present: Jodi Burgess. 1. The meeting was called to order at 7:35p.m. '2. The minutes of the previous meeting were read, corrected and approved in a unanimous voice vote. Committee Reports: 3. Stan Ference gave the Finance Conunittee report. A) On the recommendation of the Finance Committee the following allocations from the reserve fund were discussed and voted upon: i. $5,000 Coffee House budget wgs approved unanimously in a roll call vote. ii. $600.00 for the U .C. Jazz Ensemble was approved 10:1:1 in a voice vote. B) A capital asset amendment to the Constitution was proposed. Motion to table amendment was approved in a unanimous voice vote. The' amendment will be available for review in Mrs. Marra's office this week. C) The policy for travel reimbursement will be reviewed. 4. Steve Moss gave-his report on the COC. A) They have recently approved the constitution of the U.C~ Riding Club. The Riding Club was represented at the meeting by Jodi Burgess to encourage the Forum to ratify their constitution. After much discussion a roll call vote to approve the Riding Club was taken. The motion passed 10:2:0. B) A recormnendation will. be made to the Finance Committee to freeze the budgets of the clubs that did not hand in their status reports. 5. 'rhe Forwn went into an Executive Session for five minutes. 6. Andy Geor--ge announced that the Board of Trustees will be meeting this weekend. 7. Maureen Coleman reported for the SAC. A) Registration procedures will be discussed with Dwight Wolf. B) The Alcohol Colllillittee will be meeting on Wednesday. Old Business: 8. The Pub Night needs more publicity. New Business: 12. Official Student Forum stationery is neeede-a. 13\. Different uses for the surplus in the Student Activities Fund were discussed. 14. Motion to adjourn was unanimously passed at 8:35p.m. Respectfully submitted, Next week's meeting will begin at 9:00p.m. . David Cohen I .. - II II By SpE Politl Bem 1arg1 Chap in tl Peac lectu histo port Hil Berk of tt time knoVI \Ber Be and matt cern topic He b of J after \I h Le exar toea coul ders cent Egy the fere mur JudE Lew bad pha1 \fig the the arcl who nati Isla p Nat exa1 we Isla are1 wou sug pOli oth1 Gre yet diff anc Lev cou imi A pol die: ' '

:h )€ fe lg 1e ~s nt :n r. 1e n n It 1'1 e ·s 0 s n n n 1- - CONCORDJENSIS, October 31, 1985 • • • Religion and Politics Mid East Considered By MAUREEN COLEMAN News Editor Speaking on \Religion and Politics in the Middle East,\ Bernard Lewis addressed a large crowd in Memorial Chapel on October 24. The fifth in the annual Anwar Sadat Peace Lecture series, Lewis' lecture was sponsored by the history department with sup- port from Fredric Miller. · History prafessor Steven Berk introduced Lewis as \one of the best historians of our time'' and said of Lewis' lmowledge of the Middle East, ''Bernard Lewis is the best.'' as well as current \Islamic terrorism.\ The overthrow of the Shah of Iran in 1979 was termed the ! 'Islamic Revolution,\ and the \Islam.ic Republic\ followed. However, these terms, like ''Islamic terrorism\ which, Lewis notes, bears \no stamp of Islamic approval\-·simply indicate what the acting groups call themselves. Lewis emphasized the sense of royal regime and a strict observance of rules-and the radicals who consider conservative practices a hypocritical facade. Egypt exhibits both movements, Lewis added. Because the Islamic state is the church, Lewis said, traditional Western approaches to church and state separation are irrelevant. He explained that Islam may or may not be a theocracy, depending on ane's definition of theocracy. Islam is, \in one sense profoundly a theocracy,'' Lewis noted, · because the state, the treasury, the army-and therefore the enemy-all are God's. Other than Turkey, all Islamic Continued on page 4 Bernanr:l Lewis spoke in Memorial Chapel on \Religion and Politics in the Mid East.\ Because the issue of religion and politics has become \a matter of considerable con- cern,\ Lewis adqressed the topic of Middle Eastern Islam. He began by quoting the words of Anwar Sadat's murderer after he shot Egypt's president: political character of religion and th~ religious character of politics in the Middle East. Islam, ''from the very begin- ning,\ was tied with politics, and its scriptural history demonstrates strong political content. Although it \was submerged for a while,\ Lewis believes Islam represents \an , active political force\ both \where it's free to express it- self... and where it is not.\ He described the events in Iran during 1979 and afterward as having a strong impact and producing \an upsurge of hopes and aspirations-even after they were no longer justified.\ Campuses Assess Drinking \I have killed the pharaoh.\ Why \pharaoh\? Lewis hoped that by examining why the man chose to call Sadat \the pharaoh,\ one could gain a better un- derstanding of \perhaps the central dilemma\ of recent Egyptian history. Noting that the term. pharaoh held a dif- ferent meaning for Sadat's murderer than the traditional J udeo-Christian interpretation, Lewis proposed \we must look back in history\ to see that the pharaoh was not considered a \figure of glory.\ Beginning in the Koran, \the pha~aoh was the villain of the story... the archetype of the pagan tyrant\ who symbolized the secular, nationalist, destructive rule of Islam. Presenting the · United Nations' proceedings as an example, Lewis explained that we are now accustomed to· an Islamic bloc in the political arena. He said that most people would consider it absurd to suggest religiously based political alignments between other coWltries-for example Greece and the Soviet Union- yet Islamic countries which differ widely \continue to meet and do significant things.\ Lewis stated that \what (these countries) have in ·common is important enough.\ Iran As cases of religion in the political context, Lewis in- dicated Iran, in 1979 and after, \A striking difference in the attitudes expressed\ now characterizes the Islamic nationalist movement,- Lewis said; nationalism is currently targeted internally. Islamic nationalists; he explained, now seem to think, \Because we have departed from the true Islam, all these foreigners were able to penetrate.\ To approach Islam from a different angle, Lewis con- sidered a map of the Middle East. Because most names on the map appear modern, Lewis rhetorically questioned what had come before these often artificial divisions and titles for the oldest civilization in the world. He answered that the basic identification had originally been according to religion, ''the primary loyalty, primary basis of identity.\ Islam's \Success Story\ Lewis described Mohammed as Islam's \success story,\ because he, unlike Jesus or Moses, was a head of state during his lifetime, \a sovereign.\ Thus, \from the beginning of Islamic history, there is a total interpenetration of religion and politics.\ However, Islam presently encompasses a wide vari~ty of movements even within one coWltry. Lewis outlined the distinction between the con- servatives-characterized by a Editors' Note: This article is presented to give Union students, faculty, and staff an idea of how other campuses have handled the drinking age question. An open forum on how to handle the situation at Union was held yesterday. This forum will be covered in the next issue of Concordiensis. (CPS )~Police officers \have come to the door on a noise complaint, and have just walked in, and started carding people,'' complains Mike Forman, Interfraternity CoWlcil president at Bradley University. \They don't have the right to do that without a warrant.\ They may in fact have the right, and colleges across the country are using it more to keep a much closer eye on students this fall as the nationwide crackdown on student drinking begins its second year. Some critics fret the crack- down, however, may scuttle campus \responsible drinking\ programs, forcing many students off campus-and into their cars-to drink in less- controllable, more dangerous situations. And while observers can't agree if tougher regulations and stricter enforcement actually are changing student drinking habits, campuses' switch to more aggressive anti~drinking tactics this fall is beyond SPEND A NIGHT ABROAD INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL I.NTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL MEETING: October 31 (Tonight) Social Sciences 110 at 7:00p.m. DISCUSSION TOPIC: THE MIDDLE EAST All are welcome to Attend! RELATIONS CLUB question: -At Indiana University, the dean of students makes surprise visits to campus parties to find underaged drinkers and enforce a new campus keg policy. -Yale now effectively prohibits alcohol at many campus events, and issues students \drinking cards\ to help enforce the new ru1es. -Local police broke up traditional school-opening street parties at West Virginia and Western Michigan, arresting some 42 students the first week of classes at West Virginia. -Pittsburgh police have warned student groups they will drop into University of Pitts- burgh parties unannounced to enforce new drinking age laws. -University of Florida ad- ministrators made a point of holding a public hearing into alleged violations of their new dry rush rules the very first week of school. B-radley officials had two students arrested for violating drinking rules during their first week of classes, too. Boston University, Southern Cal, Berkeley, Penn State, San Diego State, Kentucky and Arizona, among scores of other campuses, have adopted stricter rules for student drinking this fall. . At Smith College, for example, underaged drinkers no longer can get legal help from the college. Students can't College Press Service ~~ have liquor in dorms at South Dakota state schools any more, while Penn State restricts the kinds of parties that can. have kegs. Administrators say they're responding to new minimmn drinking ages and to the dif- ficulty of buying liability in- surance without proving they're trying to enforce the rules. No one is sure how much the crackdown is changing student drinking. \The keg is still the major focus of a party, but there is a trend toward more responsible use of alcohol on our campus,\ notes Harold Reynolds, director of student affairs at Cal- Berkeley. \There are some disgruntled views about the ban on alcohol, but we are living with it\ says George Kuntz, president of the InterFraternity and Sorority Council at Boston University. \In the past, 10 people would work on the homecoming committee. We had 35 this year. There is a definite increase in participation in school events. It has worked phenomenally well,\ Kuntz says of the new alcohol regulations. \I wouldn't say conswnption has gone down in our house, but there is more awareness of the potential a buses of alcohol,\ says Mike Allen, president of Delta Tau Delta at the University of Missouri- Colwnbia. At Yale, \there will be fewer large parties,\ predicts Mark Watts, of Yale's Joint Council of Social Chairmen. \I expect there will be more coat and tie parties with more food and also more VCR ren- tals,\ he adds. And at Texas's Austin campus, \there's not less drinking, but more responsible drinking,\ says Trina Hedemann of the school's Alcohol Education Task Force. Continued on page 4

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Alison Bender, '86 and Sam White, '87, members of The American-Israeli mittee encourage students to sign their petition today and tomorrow. AIPAC seeks Signatures ByMAUREENCOLEMAN News Editor they pass the resolution\ in Congress if students show enough interest in the issue. Already, \They're very, very surprised in Washington about what this small college is doing.\ \Students are pretty sales. Michels emphasized that AIPAC is a committee and is not just run by individuals. He looks forwa1d to addressing other issues and hopes AIPAC \will maintain a presence as a political group on campus.\ Drinking Age • • Continued from page 3 The university now is debating whether to ban alcohol in Texas's dorms. Raising the drinking age will drive students froin bars and · dorms, probably starting \a trend toward private house parties,\ Hedemann speculates. \If (students) ca:n't drink in bars and frats,\ says Ruth Engs, an Indiana University professor who has studied student drtnking habits nationwide, ''they will find other places. They will drink under a tree.\ In general, ''I do not expect to see any significant change in the amount students drink,'' Engs says. ''People who think raising the age will prevent student drinking are fooling them- selves,\ Engs asserts, citing a recent Hobart College (N.Y.) · study of the effects of raising the legal drinking age. \There has been . excessive drinking in universities since they were first established in Europe in the 12th century,\ points out Pet~r Claydon, head of an alcohol awareness program at Cal-Santa Barbara. But Engs worries that pushing drinking off campus, as many schools are doing, may do more harm than good. \If kids can't drink in the old places; I am afraid they might resort to drinking in their cars,\ she says. · Adds William F. Field, dean of students at Massachusetts- Amherst, which now requires guest lists for large campus parties at which alcohol is served, \the present .situation is an undesirable one. In the past, we thought we were beiil.g helpful in assisting students to plan and run events in which alcohol was available.\ \We had a superb program with the 18-year-olds. We lost a lot of this positive input,\ Fields adds. A student organization, The American-Israeli Public Af- fairs Committee (AIPAC) has lately been active in en- couraging student campus support for pro-Israeli lobbies in Washington. As part of an organization which deals with campuses throughout the United States, AIPAC has recently addressed the proposal of Arms sales to Jordan. apathetic when it comes to politics on campus and we want to raise the political con- sciousness-especially at Union,\ Michels said. He described AIPAC as a pro- Israeli group which focuses on pro-Israel issues in Washington. ''It is not our goal to push our political views on others, but this is a way to channel similar political views on Israel.\ Lewis Talks on Islam Although voting has been temporarily postponed, Congress will eventually vote on a Reagan-backed resolution to sell arms to Jordan. Jeff Michels '86, who, along with Alison Bender '86, has organized recent AIPAC ac- tivities, said, \We feel the resolution should not go through until Hussein recognizes Israel and is ready for direct peace negotiations with Israel.'' Michels emphasized the im- portance of the United Nations' resolution nwnber 242 which officially recognizes Israel. To inform Congress of its position on the arms issue, the AIPAC group has collected signatures on a petition against the arms sale resolution. The petition reads: \We the un- dersigned Americans approve the sale of America's highly sophisticated weapons to Jordan prior to the com- mencement of direct bilateral negotiations between Jordan and Israel.\ Michels explained, \Our goal with the petition is to get one- third of the College to sign . . . We'd like to create a voice in Washington-even if it's a small voice.'' The group then hopes to submit the petition to New York State Senato1 Alfonse D' Amato. Michels asserted, \We as a small college can have a voice in Washington.\ AIPAC has also encouraged personalized student letters to congressmen, \We feel this is the best way for students to in- fluence congressmen,\ Michels said. He added that ''we think they might think twice before Because AIP AC is aware of campus interest in pro-Israel issues, it hopes to encourage action at Union. Besides promoting letter writing and petitions, the committee which claims a list of forty-five members meets regularly, has written several pro-Israel commentaries for Con- cordiensis and hopes to address issues other than Jordan arms Continued from page 3 countries name Islam as the religion of the state, although most have experienced \erosion\ and replacement of the traditional. Lewis added that in these \difficult times,\ when \all is crumbling\ within Islamic institutions, the religion provides: an emotionally familiar basis for solidarity, a rallying point, an acceptable basis for authority, a for- mulation of social norms, and the most effective symbol for mobilizing the masses. In an unstable period, many cling to Islam \in hope of being able to The following is an amendment to the Bylaws of the student constitution which passed Monday, October 28, 1985. Capital Assets and Purchases 1. The Student Forum will establish in the the spring a Capital Reserve Account tor the upcoming fiscal budget year. This account will be used to fund any necessary capital purchases over $200 by individual recognized student organizations. The total amount of the Account is to be determined by the Finance Committee as part of its budgeting procedures. 2. When student organizations submit their budget requests for the coming fiscal year, they will note any capital purchase requests individually in excess of $200 in a separate category. The Finance Committee will then determine all anticipated capital purchase needs for the coming year and establish the Capital Reserve Account based on available funds. 3. All student organizations wishing to purchase capital equipment whose value is more than $200 must present a written, itemized request to the Finance Committee at least two weeks prior to the anticipated date of purchase. The Finlance committee will review the proposal and, if it approves, will recommend the purchase to the Student Forum at the next regularly scheduled Forum meeting. Only .if the Student Forum approves the purchase by a majority vote, will the organization be authorized to make the purchase. The Student Forum will not recognize any other arrangements for such capital purchases. 4. The Student Forum will not approve purchases to be made in installments, i.e., no requests will be authorized for payments on capital equipment extending beyond the current fiscal budget year. The Student Forum is not authorized to approve such . purc~ases in any form. 5. ALL CAPITAL ASSETS PURCHASED BY S.TUDENT ORGANIZATIONS ARE THE PROPERTY OF UNION COLLEGE, as authorized through the Student Forum. No equipment, e.g., typewriters, chairs, desks, boats, shells, etc., may be sold, traded, exchanged, or loaned to any non-Union College organization Without the approval of the Student Forum. PHONATHON Nov. 11 & 12 5:00 - 9:30 p.m. Lower lounge-Hale House Sign up sheets posted in residence halls. RSVP Annual Fund Office by Nov. l with your team - x6174. PRIZES * FUN * .FOOD weather the storm.\ of them,\ he emphasized. Critizing the United States' \rather poor and rather self- centered logic,\ Lewis stated that we may fail to term Islam \political\ because, by our standards, it is \bad manners\. However, \there are other value systems, and Islam is one Yet, Lewis finished,. it is impossible to say where the Islamic movement will go next. Lewis noted no sign of decline; \the role · of the · Islamic movement i.s still very powerful... \ and Islam still combines religion with politics. Film Committee Presents: A Halloween Special When a Stranger Calls Thursday October 31st 7,9,11 SS(t16 Admission- $1.00 .c 0 .. 0 c ~ In ihe rn1dst of the Homecoming festivities, we see that some , people simply can't leave their home behind. Half Price Sale at ~eSJtoppe Buy Any Item and Get !12 OFF Any Other of Equal or Lou,er Price Sale Ends Nov. 2nd 133 Canal Square 370-4288 r

Get Your Treat come to DELTA ·UPSILON'S 69th ANNUAL Halloween Party on Sato, Nov. 2 10 p.m.·? Prizes awarded for best costumes leather and steel recommended ~,. WELCOME~ to 111U.Ler'1 iJne ~ CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 AN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT Located on corner of Broadway &'Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discounts STUDENT SPECIALS with Teresa, Marcie and Gari onlv! Page5 *.We carry a full line of Nexus and· Sebastian hair care products. 25% off re.t il with student I D. PH/ DELTA THETA Presents <-..~~ . ~~ ~~ .< ?>(;0 ~\.. e' ~o'< . 9th Annu.a.l TACO -N- 0~ e '<\ · A\X''<e · TEQUILA Saturday Nov. 2 10:00 a.m. - ? a.m. To rAPPELLO's· Comeln- TryOurPizza! 1.., Breakfast- Lunch - Dinner $1. 0 0 r~~~-------s~~-oo·--off---------- 1 . OFF ON ALL, 8-12-24 CUT PIZZA With This Coupon Expires Dec. 30 .--CALL US:~R'~ DELIVERY ~---------------------------------------~ Try ·Our Pastas, Calzones Hot & ~old Italian Subs) i TEL.#J46•Jl55------· - 403 UNlON ST.- '5 - NeRR LAt·HoN CoLL.E=G-E.- · Buffalo Chicken Wings We're Tumin' Back The Hands of Time! *All Hit Music from the 60's & 70's* * Complimentary Dinner Buffet & Open Bar * *All for Just $51* Plenty of FREE Parking For Adults 19 & Over at The ALBANY HILTON State & Lodge Streets • 462-6611 ~\\'-~--~----\\'~--.-~ ! \Just Desserts\ § ~ an afJ .. campus get together § Sponsored by the President's Commission on the status of women at Union § College and the women's Network ( § will be held on ~ § Friday, November 1st 'J ~ From 12:00to 1:30 p.m., in the ~ ~ Hale House Lower Lounge § Join us for some desserts on the ~ house . •. Come and win one of 9 homemade pies that will be rajjled § off . •• (winner must be present). § ~.q>·.Q>oQ>~o..Q'>tq>o..Q'>o..Q'><b><Q><Q><Q><Q>~<Q><Q><.Ql<Q><Q'>~\Q'l<Q><4Jn~

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Write Right! By CHRISTINE HONG Staff How many of us have said, \I'mhavingtrouble writing this paper\ or \I can't quite get this idea across effectively. Maybe I should go to the Writing Cen- ter.\ But, then dismiss the thought because, one, we didn't want to walk across campus; two, we didn't think the Center could help; or three, we thought only freshmen went to ask for help. If you have, you shauld take note. The job of the Writing Center is to help students communicate points clearly and effectively.\ Dave Beal,. a student tutor, referred to his job as \a sounding board for other people's writings.\ Ms. Longly added that the tutors working there aren't all English majors. \They are sympathetic; they reaUze that writing is an acquired skill.\ Stallworthy: A Success The Writing Center is very eager to help the writer in need. Ms. Sandy Longly, Assistant Director of the Center, em- phasized that the Center wasn't \just for weak writers--but for all writers.\ Furthermore, \the staff's capacity to .lJelp covers a broad range-not just English papers. It's perfectly feasible to have chemistry students come in for help on their lab reports. The Writing Genter has a vast source of reference material concerning writing technique. It also has its own handbook which illustrates the standard form of documentation for Union, A Short Guide to Notes & Bibliography. This year's student tutors are Dave Beal, Debbie Brown, Diane DUffy, Melissa Malken, Amy Walsh, and Laura Weishaup. The Director of the Writing Center is Alan Nelson, the Assistant Director is Ms. Sandy Longley. By SERGIO RAMPEZZOTTI Staff John Stallworthy, a well - known poet and college professor at Cornell. recently read his poetry .at Union College. With linguistic power and emotwnal clarity, Stallworthy explicitly stated what his poems symbolized. Because of the fact that his audience was primarily com- prised of individuals unfamiliar with his works, Stallworthy's explications were much desired and appreciated. Dealing with such topics as philosophical ethics, inanimate (but meaningful) .. objects, and the meaning of light and dark in his poems, Stallworthy clarified these oftentimes considered complicated and unresolved issu~s in a personally justifiable manner. In so doing, he offered the audience a means by which to assess his poetry. Stallworthy's presentation was faultless. By what he named as the exposition, development, and recapitulation in his poems, StaUworthy presented his poems in both an insightful and orderly manner. Many of his poems would have been exm tremely hard to interpret as a result of their great length, had it not been for Stall worthy's realization of this fact and how an audience could be misled, his poetry may have served no purpose. By attending this reading, one could gain the invaluable knowledge of learning how to relate to an I I.S.U .Review I By KAVEH SHEIBANI Staff The International Student Union (ISU) held a reception on Tuesday, October 23, com- memorating the beginning of a new club at Union College. The reception was a resounding success. Over thirty-five faculty members, and students representing countries across the globe were invited. There were people from China, France, Iran, Greece, Italy, Germany . . . Who would think that such a diversity exists at Union? The reception was held at Milano lounge, above Hale House. At the entrance each person had to fill a form in which he was asked about his name, country of birth, and whether he had interest in joining ISU. Each person wore a sticker on which his name and country of birth were written. Inside, some people were dressed in costumes representing their culture. There were drinks and food from different countries. After an hour, after which everyone became acquainted with one another, there was music and dancing-not of the ordinary kind. Everyone formed a big circle. Students then played a record representing their culture and then proceeded to explain to the others how to dance in their tradition. Most of the guests were brave and joined the students. We were able to witness Greek, Iranian, South American, and African dancing. The latter was the highlight of the evening, due to a great performance by Eddy Remy, who is a professional African dancer and also one of the co-founders of ISU. The idea of a club for in- ternational students at Union became a reality largely because of efforts by some students and Professor Ted Schwartz, Foreign Student Advisor, and faculty advisor to ISU. The club will not only have regular student members but also associate faculty mem- bers. The purpose of the club is not to further separate people with different cultural backgrounds from Americans. Once ISU establishes a solid foundation, it will be able to add to the diversity of the school in a positive way by allowing an opportunity for Americans and international students to __par- ticipate and observe cultures different from their own. For more information regarding ISU, please contact Professor Schwartz at room 202, Stein- metz Hall. VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK .(518) 370-3251 audience's perception of you and your work and what could and should be done about it. Stallworthy's lecture was a worthwhile event, both in- tellectually and socially. Confessions of a Union College English Major By DEBBIE BRENNER AND LOU LANNI I try to be creative Among the six:-year-meds, The engineering wizards And the basic digit heads. I strive to keep it verbal, To express myself in words; Physics, math and chemistry Are strictly for the birds. People love to ask me With confusion in their eyes, ''An English major? Oh, how nice! But do you think it's wise? What will you do.post-graduate? What will you be trained for?\ Their insistent practicality Is quite hard to ignore. \I'll write,\ I say, and try to smile, At their horror and concern. But deep inside, I must admit, It always makes me burn. Who are they to laugh at ine Like nothing could be cuter Than to meet someone who doesn't want To build a damn computer? So med-school doesn't interest me And the periodic table Holds the same allure for me As a ketchup bottle's label. · Doesn't make me worthless And it doesn't make me queer.; Union's not the place for me. How did I eml up here? I should be at Columbia, Berkeley, Penn or Brown, _ But there I'd have to study, No time to party down. Oh, how I'd miss the Skellar, K.A. on Thursday nights The D. Chi crew, the Chi Psi Zoos, AndD.U. barroom fights. So here I'll stay at Union One of the chosen few Who cannot work a slide rule But can B.S. my way through. The engineers can submit labs With writing that's inept, But I laughed last I worked half~assed And aced my Freshman Precept. \ - - - s Re \ th~ Ra wo Qu Ml at- Bo ( ye; WI DE in1 R~ th HI sa se WI in B1 m B1 d( m hi ai pl S1 h: a: Cl d< T p p B

- -- -. CONCORDlENSIS, October 31, 1985 Page7 2 5 yrs. ago today • • • Skellar Closed Reprinted from Concordiensis ·Oct. 6, 1961. By ALLEN SCHWARTZ ·, who would operate it. The Board, however, was unable to \It's an unfortunate situation fillthepost, due, presumably, to that we can't· open the the \irregular hours and length Rathskeller as early as we of employment.\ would have liked,\ said John The Skeller Board then Quinnel, last year's G~neral decided tq negate the search for Manager, and present member- one permanent employee and at-large, of the Rathskeller turned the matter over to Dean Board. Pollack, Secretary oi the U.S. Quinnel explained that last Student Council, Inc. and Mr. year, the school doctor, Myron Calvin Schmidt,. adviser to the Weaver and 0. Edward Pollack, Rathskeller Organization. Dean of-Students, made several Dean Pollack said that he and inspection tours of · the Mr. Schmidt were attempting to Rathskeller in cooperation with interest a catering service in the Schenectady Board of taking over toe Skeller in an Health. They found that operative cap_acity. Their offer sanitary conditions, as weU as has so far been rejected by the service and depth of menu, SAGA Food Service which were not up to par. presently operates the West To Hire Employee ' College and Hale House dining Conditions were immediately rooms. It is at this point that the improved by the Rathskeller situation rests. Board. However, after several Dean Pollack expressed great meetings in the Spring, the regret that the Rathskeller of Board, COlllposed of students, ten years ago \like Diamante's decided to turn the ad- is now,\ is an object of student ministrati-ve duties over to a apathy . . . due to a shift in hired employee who would be student interest.\ aided by students. He was to be \At one time ... the Skeller paid by the Union College displayed a booming business, Student Council, Inc., which packed with students, faculty, handles the Skeller's legal · and residents of Schenectady .. aspects. This man was to have . There's been quite a change.\ control over the menu, service, He attributes the change to the decor, and sanitary conditions. fact that it is not an \attractive The Board would retain its activity to students.\ Officers powe·rs to delegate sweeping on the Board aren ~t paid, so policy such as when the they naturally lack as much Rathskeller would operate and vigor as they migh have. Pictured above i!1 the Rathskeller where faculty and students dis· cussed the worlds problems over a glass of their .favorite ~verage. .FEATURES ,AI(V\t:N~ FVIS01 1he ·(:evvtt llfJatof' Ja&Ql1 Fr'l:M'l H() /}ott.reV\ ~~ SpiYfLh fqtiaftS FfoVYJ West Diversity at Union By KAVEH SHEffiANI Staff One of the best aspects of Union is its excellent faculty; one member who attests to this fact is a professor of biology, Carl George. Dr. George - graduated from the Diversity of Michigan and got his doctorate in biology, with emphasis on animal behavior, from Harvard University. Before coming to Union in 1967, he taught at the American University of Beirut for seven years. He spoke about the beauty and cultural richness of Beirut before the crisis in Lebanon turned it into a city of rubble. If a person can be called in- teresting because he or she is involved in a wide range of activit~es, then Carl George is the epttomy of such a quality. He lives in a house which he built. This house is not an ordinary one. It is a geodesic dome (like a big bubble), based on a modification of an original because of the feeling of design by Buckminster Fuller. oneness with the water, of being He and his wife started con- surrounded by nature, and the structing the dome in 1972; he is uniqueness of this team sport in somewhat embarassed to admit which each individual plays a that there are a few things left great role. He also feels that to be done before the project is Crew is a peaceful sport, and completed. Such an attitude can arouse sublime feelings in though is a reflection of his the participant. modesty. Dr. George is on the Board of There are many reasons why Directors of the Schenectady Dr. George decided to un- Museum where he is the dertake such a task. His wife, Chairman of Science and who is a dance instructor, Technology. He is interested in preferred a house that would forming a musemn where the allow large movement. Also Dr. visitor is an active observer. In George said that he does not this way, the musewn can play want to be an \effete intellectual a more substantial role in snob. \-a person who has many education. In the museum, I ideas but never shows them observed a model designed by concretely. By building the Dr. George and Professor Bob dome, Dr. George feels that he Schaffer that imitates the is making his ideas tangible. structure of a titanium dioxide His home represents an artistic molecule. Again Dr. George form- of expression. It is no proves that he is a man who not longer just a shelter, but a only has ideas, but also par- creation with its own in- ticipates in them. dividuality. In-between conversations Besides teaching, Dr. George about his interests, Dr. George also is involved with Crew. talked in length about his Even though he does not row, thoughts on teaching and Union because of his interests in the College. He claims to have Mohawk River and some timely recently realized that he is not a coincidences he became the good teacher. He is critical of faculty advisor to Crew. He people who equate having a feels that the formation of Crew Ph.D. with having the ability to at Un1on is very important teach. One defect among many because it allies Union more teachers including himself, he with Ivy League schools. As for feels, is overteaching. The the great affinity students have student becomes a passive towards rowing, he thinks it is Continued on page 8 ,..,. ............ J'\. ...... .,. ...... ...r_...J\\~..,. ....... .,....,. .......... ..,. ............ .,. ...... .,.\'... ...... ~...cr1 ~ Presenting: ~ \Collect Call From • • • § § '' 8 REV. MATTHEW FOX, O.P. § I \Creation-Centered Spirituality: § § ~ By HOWIE PADOLSKY Staff It's that time of the year again. The leaves are falling, that crisp, burnt smell of fall h~s permeated the air, and the phone bill is in the mail box. Yes, by now you should have recovered from the initial shock of the dreaded phone bill. I must sympathize with my freshmen friends who are receiving this shock for the first time. Yet, it seems as if the same story is repeated every fall. The telephones are reconnected, we conscientiously . choose which long distance carrier to handle the abundance of long distance calls that we make, and then we procrastinate in paying the phone bill to the very last day. The absurdity of a $60.00 installation charge continues to baffle me. In a recent con- versation with an employee of the New York Telephone Company, I attempted, in vain, to discover the reason why it costs an enormous amount of money to connect a line which is already installed. All that milst be done is 'to punch this in- formation into a computer. Now, I ask you, dies it require $60.00 of labor for ap- proximately 10 minutes of work on a computer? A year or two ago, in the age of student activism at Union, I remember signing a petition about this very same complaint. It was to be taken to the state legislators and Public Service Commission, in Albany. I think that the only thing that came out of this was an increase in the installation charge. But permit me not to cr1ticize without some suggestions. As a radical move, comparable to the student solidarity of the 60's and 70's, we could all boycott New York Telephone. I found two things wrong With this idea, though. First, I don't think that New York Telephone would notice the loss of 2000 students from their bukkings. Second, most students still do not know where the mailbox is located to send the profusion of letters that they write. On a more moderate note: ho~ about installing the lines and telephones in each room, and leave them in per- manently? As with many other colleges and universities, the local phone company has arranged with the school to install the line and a phone for each room and they leave them there. I realize that this could lead to serious problems; it may not be the shade of black you want in a telephone, or you i:nay prefer a hot pink push- button. But you could save the $60.00 installation charge that we find so appalling. My prediction: the apathy and indifference at Union will continue to pervade among such issues. The administration has washed its hands of this in- justice and as long as ''Daddy\ continues t<> pay, no one seems · to care. Well maybe \Daddy\ should stop paying and the school do more to rectify this perennial problem that tends to make these beautiful fall days a bit colder. § Alternative § § Ways of Living and Dying\ § § § ~ a free public seminar § ~ on Monday, November 18, 1985 at ~ ~ The Schenectady Museum I § N ott Terrace Heights § ~ 2:30~4:30 P.M. ~ §,..,..,.,...r..roh\\..r~.r.r.r.r..r..r.r..r..r.r..r..r..r.r~..r...oo-..r..;'..#\....o--JJ\\~ * It's ~ *College . >f Night! * All-American Music * All-American Buffet * ......_ * All-American Fun * ~ * ~ * $. 75 DrinkS with your College ID * * Blue Jeans and Casual At1ite are Suggested * *Plenty of FREE Parking * For Adults 19 & Over at The ALBANY HILTON State & Lodge Streets • 462-6611 * *

Page8 r CONCORDIENSJS, October 31, 1985. FEATURES .. ' : Carl George • • • Continued from.page 7 Ballons were cerer:loniously launched at the beginning of I ast week's Homecoming football game. force, a machine to which in- formation is fed. Such a problem can only be overcome in time with increased ex- perience in teaching. The in- stillment of drive and curiosity shauld be the main objective ·of the teacher. Dr. George feels that a good teacher should lead the student, but allow him to discover the facts. He says, \Learning should be a bi-effort: the idea of a reward for a struggle.\ A technique he uses to teach is to cause the students ta become a little confused and frustrated, so that they will attempt- to unqerstand the problem through their own effort. He is also critical of the student evaluation forms. He defines college: \College means· collection.\ . Collection here implies a collection of different methods and ideas. He feels that student evaluations equate the methods of teaching involving completely different matters, and requiring different methods, therefore taking away from the diversity of Union. highly regarded by Christians, Moslems, and Jews. He represents here the unity of the worlds three main religions. Whence, Dr. George claims the name Union comes from. He strengthens. this claim by pointing out that when looking at the Nott Memorial one notices that the windows are in sets of three, and all of them •have equal height. For Dr. George, the Nott Memorial is a far more important structure than just the logo of Union College. Rather, it is an im- portant testament to world peace and unity, and \as long as Union does not reali:le and. emphasize this fact, it is forgetting one of its primary objectives: to promote peaceful interaction between people.\ Alumni Review 'U' Dr. George also talked about Jackson's Gardens: \It adds an element of graciousness, a reverence for other living things. It is very important to keepthis respect for them.\ His interest in Captain Jackson, Drill Captain of Union College Militia, led him to find the Captain's musket, which dates back priot to the Civil War. The musket can be seen in the ad- ministration building. ByKDWBERLYHANCOCK Staff Homecoming is traditionally a time when alumni return to their alma mater to rejoice and reminisce days gone by. For many of those who returned this past weekend, the meeting with Union College was like en- countering a familiar face after a long separation. Although Union remained familiar to most, its ever-changing features were the object of much priase, criticism and skepticism for the entire weekend. The most obvious of the changes with which the alumni were greeted were the renovation of Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gym. \Do you think they'll ever be finished?\ questioned a '74 graduate. Others had varying opinions, \What's being done with Carnegie and Alumni is necessary, but I'm glad I graduated when I did,\ stated Mark Bernstein '85. \I'm having difficulty finding my way around,\ admitted '32 graduate Tom Dietz, \but I'm all for the changes.\ When asked how they felt about the changes that were taking place, Mike \Jake\ Mosher '84 exclaimed, \Oh I'm scared to walk around in this place!\ and Gorden Newell '46 replied, \I think the college is doing really well.\ Pete Gillen '85 summed it up by deciding, \The school is in a state of puberty.\ Another of the structural changes which may not be as apparent to present students as it was to the alumni, was the renovation of West College and the new lounges in the Fox and Davidson dormitories. \I am very impressed by the dramatic physical improvement of the dormitories. Having seen them before these changes, I can't help but be equally impressed by D.ave Wood's work,\ stated Alan Rutkin '80. The wife of a '76 graduate was overheard exclaiming, \This is quite beautiful!\ when Fox Lounge was pointed out to her. The recent renovation of West College (formerly known as \the dingiest dorm .on cam- pus\) was analyzed using an entirely dtfferent criteria. \H{)W can you have any FUN here?\ an '83 graduate and veteran ' 'West i e '' questioned, \Everything's TOO new!\ A '72 graduate criticized, \I don't like it! It's JUST NOT WEST!\ The football game was the location of Saturday's central activity. Alumni, students and faculty swarmed the stands in search of the perfect seat from which to cheer on the Dut- chmen. \It's great to see so many fans cheering on the team,\ commented a Dutchman from '58, \Football just wasn't as big a thing when I played.\ The game provider! an op- portune time for the alumni to assess the students ar.d vice versa. \I'm glad to see .that some things never change,\ confided a '70 graduate, \Cider and rum is still an excellent choice for a stadiwn drink!\ Another change which was very apparent to 1920 graduate Seymore Smith was the addition of women to Union College. \I think women are making the college,\ he eKplained, \Just as long as the ratio remains 60-40. If it gets higher than that,.it will be no good!\ For many of the younger All ads, unpaid or paid MUST be turned into the Concordy Office no later than Monday afternoon preceeding publication. Any ads received after this time Will Not be published. alumni, 'Saturday night meant drinking at the Rathskellar as they had so many years before. The Skellar was buzzing with talk of jobs, children and \the good ole' days.\ \This is great!\· exclaimed one alumni, but another had a differing opinion. \Where are the pit- chers?\ he ·demanded. A graduate from the class of 1941 summed up the entire weekend. ''The college must grow and change to ac- commodate the changing needs of society and the students. For this I praise Union College! As for all the changes that have made parts of Union unrecognizable to me ... they don't matter ... Union will always be 'home'.\ His main thoughts about Union College were con- centrated on the historical aspects of the school. He would like to see the historical context of the college to' be conveyed more to the students. As an example he talked about the Nott Memorial. He thinks that the Nott Memorial is very reminiscent of the Dome of the Rock, in Jerusalem, where Abraham was called to sacrifice Isaac. He notes that Abraham is a prophet who is Dr. George's interest in Jackson's Garden is not accidental, since he is an ecologist. He has helped establish six parks; he .named the Christmas Sanctuary, Central Park and Kenrose Preserve among the six. Presently, he is working on a book about the natural history of the Mohawk Valley. IS THE PARTY OVER?? • Not if you choose to get' involved. The Committee on Commit-tees is forming The Social Alternatives Committee to investigate and recommend new social activities at Union. Applications are now available in the Student Activities. Office.· For more information, contact Mrs. Marra. DON'T GIVE UP! Computer Center News ByCOMPUTERCENTERSTAFF .:.... The Imagen 5/480 laser printer, a device for typesetting applications and graphics output, is now available for use on the VAX Cluster. Because of its speed (5 pages per minute) and the cost of paper, its use is restricted. Anyone wishing to use it should contact Thersa Pardo, Academic Services Coordinator (6293). -WPS-PLUS, a document processing system that allows you to create and edit documents with a full-screen editor, is available on the VAX Cluster. For those who are new to word processing WPS-PLUS provides a built-in training course. The course is accessed from the main menu of WPS-PLUS. To use WPS-PLUS you must first set yourself up as a user by entering the following command: -This will create a necessary WPS-PLUS dictionary to your area and tell you the name of that directory. When the system responds with the directory name press return. -Creating a directory with the WPSNEWUSR conunand is done once. You do not have to execute this command each time you log on. The directory created by the WPSNEWUSR cominandwill remain on the system until your account is removed. You are now ready to useWPS·PLUS. Enter: -To access the Imagen Laser Printer from WPS-PLUS you must alter the document destination field in the print menu. The document destination is as follows: Docwnent Destinatio: SY-TTG2 Anyone wishing to use the Imagen 51l80 laser printer should contact Theresa Pardo, Academic Services C~ordinator (6293). ...

- - --- - ;ians, He ,f the :ions. s the . He by •king one rein :hem Dr. is a !ture ·nion im- orld tg as and t is 1ary ~eful •le.\ bout san ;, a ring t to His son, lege the =.ttes The ad- . in not an ped ned .ry, ose ;ix. 1 a ory ... CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 ~ ~,-V£/I!EilLt/1 Jetf/lee-! J..~f Ill be YD\Hf \JPfitt SaJnt n 15% Discount w.lth Haircut /Design Perms Colour Facials Nail Lengt.hening Waxing Make .. Up Pedicure Uni·on ID card and· 10% Discount with Ad Offer expires Nov. 14 Page9 Our designers.have b~en trained by SASSOON of London and JINGLESa H. y .C. Gooding Skin Systems 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1230 JOIN THE UNION R,IDING CLUB Ride for Fun or I ntercollegiately * Expert Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES * Group Rates Available For Union Students For Information about riding for fun, group rates and~ discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus or Lorraine Marra in STUDENTS ACT IV ITI ES Office in Old Chapel FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT Phone: 393-5440/393-5441 Specialze in Cantonese,_ Szechuan & Hunan Hours: Sun-Thu ll: 30-10:00 Fri-Sat 11:30-11:00 Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In .-We preJIIIre our foods with ••• Just a Little Bit of Luck and 11 Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Discount for Take Out Orders Only . W /Student I.D. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn LOAN AGENTS WANTED: If you enjoy helping in- dividuals and firms solve their financial needs; and at the same time earn yourself a legitimate and con- scionable ·fee for your service in jOining borrower and lender together, including arbitrage and barter lending PHONES: 372-7270 370-373.5 FEATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWER.f\ RD. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. * The Latest Videos! * The Hottest Music! • * The Place to Bel Where the Party Never Stops! PLUS: Saturdays Between 9 PM - 10 PM the 1st 50 Ladies Can Enjoy OPEN BAR! Plenty of FREE Parking For Adults 19 & Over at The AlBANY HILTON State & lodge Streets • 462-6611 &RenaniJJana Hair Designs UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS r--------------------------, ' $10 Off Sculptured : I Nails i ! Reg. $35.00 NOW $25.00 I ___________________________ J WITH THIS COUPON VALID THROUGH NOV.15 MONARI. 9-9 37 519 UNION ST. SAT. 9-6 . · 2-0007 SCH'DY (after we have taught you our system), without F.,....,...,.,,..,..~...oo-..r~..r..r....cccrJ:r...-Qr..r..b\.r..r.r. ..... .r..rJ.:r.r-, disturbing what you are doing now for a living, then this ~ · § coUtld be the answer to your dreams _,_and ambitions. § New Course Offered: I ( Pl.ease do not apply if you have any objections to I i becoming a wealthy person). A $10,000 membership- § LL 156 'Bio-economic Aspects of § performance· fee is required, refundable from first i New Health Technologies\ § completed loans, (Based on 10% service charge up to $1 § a liberal learning \C\ ~ million, thereafte.r5%, $1 billion and over add 21!2%). § § 0 Winter Term 1986 Tues·Thurs 1 :30·3:20, Taught by Sg Write in strictest confidence, or if in a hurry, call 1-203- s ProfessorsStylesandLambrinos s 848-8552, Dr. Louis Bates, Bates Business Consultants, I lllote: This course does not appear in the=J 123 Maple Ave., Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, USA. ~ lists,butisbeingottered. ll==O=u=r=5=0=th:;:=A=n=n=i=v=e=rs=a=r=v=19=3=5=·-=19=8=5-==========:::::::!l lo-~oooO()OOOOeo~ ._ . . ... '\' .. \ '

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 FOlJTJ!Id at Umon Col/~ 18!7 ------------ ----------- The Weekend Here's just a quick note of thanks to all those in the community who helped to make Homecoming '85 a great one. Another Garnet football victory against Williams (It sure is fun to play those Ephmen, isn't it? Too bad that rivalry will soon be over! ) on a beautiful sunny Saturday was the highlight. The many other events: singing by the Dutch Pipers, the parade, the Arts Club-Dance Club per- formance were fabulously entertaining as well. · . Cabaret, the Choir concert and of course, the traditional Saturday night fireworks topped off a wonderful day. And, as always, it sure was great to see old familiar faces again. Thanks to all who made it possible. A special thanks to the Homecoming Committee for some terrific planning. New Clubs Ahhh, yes ... three more ways to get involved. Some new clubs have been formed and they sound really exciting. The first of these clubs is the Union College Gospel Ensemble. Headed by Charles Moore, '87 the group is very enthusiastic to get started in its performances. It plans to perform here at Union as well as traveling to other schools. The second club, the Union College Karate Club, which was started by Mike Zeller, '89, meets three times a week for one and a half hour classes. Even our own Dean Daniels has taken up the defense classes. The Union College Riding Club is the last, but not the least, of the new clubs. Members of this club encourage all interested riders, experienced or inexperienced, to join them at Ballybay Farms, for some horsing around. Jodi Burgess, '87, is head of the Club. They plan on providing class instruction as well as competing. So, as you can see, there are some exciting prospects here. More information can be obtained from the Student Activities Office on the third floor of Old Chapel. Stop by and check it out ... you'll be glad you did! Student Life Already, it's Halloween and we've begun the eighth week of the term. Besides facing the tests, papers and, yes, finals, that the end of the tenn will bring. We, as a campus, must make some crucial decisions before we leave Union for Winter break. Because the legal purchasing age will change December 1, the social life at Union will be very different next term-and afterward. The Alcohol A ware ness Committee has been meeting to establish formal College policies in the face of the new law. However, as students, we must consider not just the College's legal responsibilities or simply what willl be allowed and what won't; We, as a community, need to generate alternatives to alcohol-centered social events. Since campus construction limits possibilities for a common meeting area, alternatives will clearly be limited. While the Alcohol Awareness Committee has named the campus social life as one of its con- siderations, policy formulation is its most pressing concern. Accordingly, the Committee on Committees, with the support of the Student Forum, has established a Social Alternatives Committee. However, the same small group of students cannot tackle all of the campus' problems. The decisions made now will affect the College in the near-and distant-future, so all ·students, especially un- derclassmen, should take advantage of every op- portunity for input in social alternatives as weu as policy formulation. Can college students have fun without alcohol\? We'd better find a way, or it's going to be a long Winter term . . . and a disappointing College ex:a perience. LETTERS Prove Your Accusations To the Editor: Three cheers, Eric Lipman, for your commentary ''An Alternative Proposal,\ a valiant attempt at a wakening the slumbering intellectual beast of this campus. Indeed, your proposed granite pedestal could prove to be the cor- nerstone of active student in- volvement and concern . at Union College. My congratulations, however are contingent on the sincerity of your suggestion. For if you made it with tongue in cheek, I must take exception to your habitual misguidedness. In short, the time has come to cast aside your rhetorical smugness and to seriously devote yourself to the betterment of this in- stitution. Curriculum reform must not be taken lightly. The college has .acknowledged its problems and has formed the committees which can begin to solve them, provided that the students do not irrationally panic at . the mere mention of change. Eric, you do the college an un- pardonable disservice in two ways: You suggest that change would be \traumatic'' and a \risky gamble,\ and you trivialize the work of the committees by stating that a piece of granite could be a viable substitute for refotrn. The question should not be \Why change?\ but \Why not?\ It is far better to take a few risks than to mire ourselves in intellectual stagnancy. The granite platform, however, is a good place to begin, and I hooe that you un- derstand the implications of face-to-face commentary and rebuttal. Standing on the stone, you would not be permitted to allude to my words as lies, or to explicitly label them as \rubbish.\ I would require you to substantiate your ac· cusations-if, in fact you can, and you are not libelously abusing the responsibility which this newspaper has granted. Eric, feel free to call me on the carpet, and hit me with your best shot, but prepare yourself for the counterpunch. Everyone would be better off. David Beal '86 Homecoming Successful To the Editor: We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and student · organizations who supported Homecoming Weekend '85. In particular, special thanks to the Homecoming Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend were felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events were not only exten:;;ive and impressive, but was executed perfectly as well. We appreciate your time and efforts to make this a spec- tacular weekend and hope that you~njoyed yourselves as much as we did. Congratulations to all of you who participated in aur 6th AnnUal Homecoming Parade. The floats were works of art and certainly reflected the time and ingenuity put into constructing them. Special congratulati9ns to the winners: Best Overall-Richmond- Webster · Best Interpretation of Theme-South-N orth-Hickok Most Original-West Funniest-Kappa Alpha Also, a special note of thanks to the Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and assistance in promoting this big fall weekend. We know that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office Staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student Homecoming Committee and all of our student volunteers. We are already looking forward to our Homecoming Weekend '86! Sincerely, Edith Berkowitz Bob Bruhn '69 Sharon Clark HarryDemgen '47 Jacquie Dunbar '86 Kathy Mullaney '74 Lisa Poskanzer '86 Mary Slusarz Print Exam Schedule Earlier To the Editor: As a parent of a senior, I would like to make a request that will bene'fit not me, but will be helpful to other parents. Would the school Admin- istration please consider setting up the final exam schedule earlier than is Correction Noted To The Editor: I would like to thank Dave Gulliver and Concordy for the comprehensive and thoughtful article on Union College's grant programs. The \story behind the story\ is not often told. There is, ilowever, one correction that should be noted. The recent grant ·from the Surdna Foun- dation was made to help Union meet the challenge offered the College by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Andrew W. Mellon Foun- dation for the establishment of a permanently endowed Presidential Discretionary Fund. The income from this en- dowment will be available, at the discretion of the President, to support a variety of .programs for College ad- . vancement with an emphasis on curricular activity. Very truly yours, Robert B. Rasmussen presently done? In particular, the exam schedule could be set up at least thirty days before the start of the exam period. This would permit students to take advantage of the discount fares on airlines where reservations must be made thirty days prior to flight. Perhaps Union could follow the precedent set by other colleges whereby the exam schedule is announced at the beginning of the term. This earlier set-up of the exam schedule is just a courtesy, but one that would be greatly appreciated. Thank you, a Union College parent - --- - TG th N; nc 1~ AI th eli w th Ill pl tt fr B a: n li tl t< c ll v f I I s r r 1 t

Page 10 CONCORDJENSJS, Octoher 31, 1985 OlJll1fllrbirnsis Fourukd al ( lmon College 1877 ---------- -------- The Weekend Here's just a quick note of thanks to all those in the community who helped to make Homecoming '85 a great one. Another Garnet football victory against Williams (It sure is fun to play those Ephmen, isn't it? Too bad that rivalry will soon be over!) on a beautiful sunny Saturday was the highlight. The many other events: singing by the Dutch Pipers, the parade, the Arts Club-Dance Club per- formance were fabulously entertaining as well. Cabaret, the Choir concert and of course, the traditional Saturday night fireworks topped off a wonderful day. And, as always, it sure was great to see old familiar faces again. Thanks to all who made it possible. A special thanks to the Homecoming Committee for some terrific planning. New Clubs Ahhh, yes ... three more ways to get involved. Some new clubs have been formed and they sound really exciting. The first of these clubs is the Union College Gospel Ensemble. Headed by Charles Moore, '87 the group is very enthusiastic to get started in its performances. It plans to perform here at Union as well as traveling to other schools. The second club, the Union College Karate Club, which was started by Mike Zeller, '89~ meets three times a week for one and a half hour classes. Even our own Dean Daniels has taken up the defense classes. The Union College Riding Club is the last, but not the least, of the new clubs. Members of this club encourage all interested riders, experienced or inexperienced, to join them at Ballybay Farms, for some horsing around. Jodi Burgess, '87, is head of the Club. They plan on providing class instruction as well as competing. So, as you can see, there are some exciting prospects here. More information can be obtained from the Student Activities Office on the third floor of Old Chapel. Stop by and check it out ... you'll be glad you did! Student Life Already, it's Halloween and we've begun the eighth week of the term. Besides facing the tests, papers and, yes, finals, that the end of the term will bring. We, as a campus, must make some crucial decisions before we leave Union for Winter break. Because the legal purchasing age will change December 1, the social life at Union will be very different next term-and afterward. The Alcohol Awareness Committee has been meeting to establish formal College policies in the face of the new law. However, as students, we must consider not just the College's legal responsibilities or simply what willl be allowed and what won't; We, as a community, need to generate alternatives to alcohol-centered social events. Since campus construction limits possibilities for a common meeting area, alternatives will clearly be limited. While the Alcohol Awareness Committee has named the campus social life as one of its con- siderations, policy formulation is its most pressing concern. Accordingly, the Committee on Committees, with the support of the Student Forum, has established a Social Alternatives Committee. However, the same small group of students cannot tackle all of the campus' problems. The decisions made now will affect the College in the near-and distant-future, so all students, especially un- derclassmen, should take advantage of every op- portunity for input in social alternatives as weu as policy formulation. Can college students have fun without alcohol? We'd better find a way, or it's going to be a long Winter term . . . and a disappointing College ex- perience. LETTERS Prove Y ou:r Accusations To the Editor: Three cheers, Eric Lipman, for your commentary \An Alternative Proposal,\ a valiant attempt at awakening the slumbering intellectual beast of this campus. lndeed, your proposed granite pedestal could prove to be the cor- nerstone of active student in- volvement and concern at Union College. My congratulations, however are contingent on the sincerity of y(mr suggestion. For if you made it with tongue in cheek, I must take exception to your habitual misguidedness. In short, the time has come to cast aside your rhetorical smugness and to seriously devote yourself to the betterment of this in- stitution. Curriculun1 reform must not be taken lightly. The college has acknowledged its problems and has formed the committees which can begin to solve them, provided that the students do net irratienaUy panic at the mere mention of change. Eric, you do the college an un- pardonable disservice in two ways: You suggest that change would be ''traumatic\ and a \risky gamble,\ and you trivialize the work of the committees by stating that a piece of granite could be a viable substitute for reform. The question should not be \Why change?\ but \Why not?\ It is far better to take a few risks than to mire ourselves in intellectual stagnancy. The granite platform, hewever, is a good place to begin, and I hope that yeu un- derstand the implications of face-to-face commentary and rebuttal. Standing on the stone, you would not be permitted to allude to my words as lies, or to explicitly label them as \rubbish.\ I would require you to substantiate your ac- cusations-if, in fact you can, and you are net libelously abusing the responsibility which this newspaper has granted. Eric, feel free to call me on the carpet, and hit me with your best shot, but prepare yourself for the counterpunch. Everyone would be better off. David Beal '86 Homecoming S.uccessful To the Editor: We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and student organizations who supported Homecoming Weekend '85. In particular, special thanks to the Homecoming Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend were felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events were not only extensive and impressive, but was executed perfectly as well. We appreciate your time and efforts to make this a spec- tacular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did. Congratulations to all of you who participated in our 6th Annual Homecoming Parade. The floats were works of art and certainly reflected the time and ingenuity put into constructing them. Special congratulations to the winners: Best Overall-Richmond- Webster Best Interpretation of Theme-South-N orth-Hickok Most Original-West Funniest-Kappa Alpha Also, a special note of thanks to the Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and assistance in promoting this big fall weekend. We know that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office Staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student Homecoming Committee and all of our student volunteers. We are already looking forward to our Homecoming Weekend '86! Sincerely, Edith Berkowitz Bob Bruhn '69 Sharon Clark HarryDemgen '47 Jacquie Dunbar '86 Kathy Mullaney '74 Lisa Poskanzer '86 Mary Slusarz Print Exam Schedule Earlier To the Editor: As a parent of a senior, I would like to make a request that will benefit not me, but will be helpful to other parents. Would the school Admin- istration please consider setting up the final exam schedule earlier than is Correction Noted To The Editor: I would like to thank Dave Gulliver and Concordy for the comprehensive and thoughtful article on Union College's grant prog1·ams. The \story behind the story\ is not often told. There is, however, one correction that should be noted. The recent grant ·from the Surdna Foun- dation was made to help Union meet the challenge offered the College by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation and the Andrew W. Mellon Foun- dation for the establishment of a permanently endowed Presidential Discretionary Fund. The income from this en- dowment will be available, at the discretion of the President, to support a variety of programs for College ad- vancement with an emphasis on curricular activity. Very truly yours, RobertB. Rasmussen presently done? In particular, the exam schedule could be set up at least thirty days before the start of the exam period. This would permit students to take advantage of the discount fares on airlines where reservations must be made thirty days prior to flight. Perhaps Union could follow the precedent set by other colleges whereby the exam schedule is announced at the beginning of the term. This earlier set-up of the exam schedule is just a courtesy, but one that would be greatly appreciated. Thank you, a Union College parent Editors-in-Chief Sarah Calderini, Linda Raffaele News Editors Jan Baran; Maureen Coleman Features Editor Maggie Boitano, Mickey Bradley Associate Features EEli:tor LeeAnn Schmidt Commentary Page Editor . Greg Fay Arts Edjt(JrS Debbie Albert, TodDimmick Campus Page Edit&rs Barbara Doyle, Raren Ruga Sports Editors JayGrossman. Charlie Slotnik Advertising Editors Debbie Rose, Ellen Slipp, Lauren Sobel Assoc. Adv:. Editor Amy Rosenkranu Business Managers Keith Conklin, Nancy Grundman Photo Editor Dave Gruber Associate Photo Editor Stuart Odell Sports Photo Editors Ine:rid Koch. Pat Merritt Subscriptions Editot:\S Bill Fenstermaker, Daniel Nicoli Staff.: Peter Agricola; Rieh Allen, Ted Cannon, Carrie Cerrone,. Dave Gulliver, Kim Hancock, Monique J:Iarrison, Andy H-odgkin, Christine Hong 1 Jane Kissel, Beth Levine, Eric Lipman, Cathy Markes, Joanne McAndrews, Howie Podolsky~ Judy Price. Laura Shapiro, Kaveh She bani, Chris Sheridan, Mary .Soley, Julie Steinberg, Conrad Tatge, Amy Walsh. CONCORDIENSlS lis published every Thursday by the student body of Uni(Jn College, Carnegie Hall, Schnectady, New York 12308; · Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Entered in the Schenectady Post Office as third class matter every three WetJks. Subscription rate: $21 pet year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS subscribes to the College PresS' Service (CPS) and utilizes the College News Bureau (CNB). Office Telephone,....(513) 370-6155 I - - T tl 1.'1 n 1 p tl e v t I r t f 1 I 1 t t

·:~: - - , [) .~ r i ', ) } 1 r CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Page 11 Professor Rebuts To The Editors, Although I wrote a reply to the editorial and to Professor Name Withheld's cowardly nonsense in the issue of October 17; 'l consigned it to_my .drawer. Anyone who cared to adjudicate this dispute, I reasoned, could examine my letter ·and see whether your argument (to use the Word loosely) had grounds. In addition, it seemed un~ productive to prolong a wran~le that was diverting attention from more important issues. But Miss Runyon's atrabilious assault this week has overcome my fQx:.ebearance. There is a limit to the amount of rubbish thrown at my person that I'll tolerate. Let me turn first to ''In Defense,\ that heap of abuse which attests an alarming inability to read. You assert that my \ac- cusations\ were \extreme and largely unmetited.\ Pray tell, was the observation that the first editorial lacked clarity \extreme\? If you think so, I shudder in anticipation ·Of your anguish when life rolls peas of much greater size under your mattresses. Was my calli,ng attention to your embarrassing gaff in misreporting the meaning of \journalize\ at the top of your sermon \largely unmerited\'? Ungenerous, perhaps, but by no measure unmerited. But you do not acknowledge these criticisms at all, nor do you address the issue of jour- nalistic responsibility which was the subject of my letter. Instead, you react like sharks roused to a feeding frenzy by their own wounds and attack a figment tortured from my words. Your principal argument, which you repeatedly invoke, concerns my statement that I would have appreciated the courtesy of consultation before you printed a memo I had ad~ dressed to the faculty. Did this \merit\ your indignation? Although Professor Zwicker did indeed inform me that the so- called position papers would be printed by -you, I did not know that he subsequently submitted the memo I wrote the next week. When I saw the memo in Con- cordiensis, I inferred, wrongly, that your reporter had picked it up at the meeting. But my comment about this matter was scarcely the maj·or \ac- cusation\ the reader of \In Defense'' might suppose. The remark-which began, \By the way\--was enclosed in a parenthesis. Moreover, as I stated, I did not object to the memo's appearance in print. As to the misspelling of my name and the garbled text: please note that my citation of those errors directly follows the phrase, \If You are oroviding record of history .... \ \If not \Since.\ My intent, which should have been obvious to anyone who had read \Responsibilities the first editorial, was to puncture your claim of being the amanuensis to Clio. (Rerun, in their en~ tirety, that editorial and my letter of October 10, in a sidebar if you dare;) If one were to assume the august duty of being the scribe to history, it would call for much greater care in proofreading; But you are publishing a qewspaper, not an official historical docwnent- precisely the distinction 1 was trying to underscore. Of course I know that, given the con- ditions under which newspapers are typeset, the appearance of typos is almost inevitable. (Although 1 must say, in all honesty, I do not understand why there should be such a density of typos in issue after issue.) If the \problem\ were as trivial as the substitution of a \d' for an \o\, or the jumbling of a few lines of type, ypu would be quite justified in saying that I have \blown\ (it) a bit out of proportion.\ In fact, the problem concerns the premise trumpeted in ''Respon- sibilities\-and implicitly advanced again in ''In Defense.\ I recognize that you are not Woodward. and Bernstein, that the issue of curricular reform is not comparable in magnitude to Watergate, that Coucordlensis is not the Washington Post. These allusions were in response to your coupling collegiate with .professional newspapers in regard to their role. That role, you say, is \to record the events of our era.\ I say that such recording, even if it were possible, does not adequately meet your obligations as a newspaper of whatever stripe. Your coverage of the curricular discussions illustrates my argument. Except for Mr. Lipman's piece ( whrcb, until I read · the criticism of it by Me~srs. Beal and Zwicker, r took to be a clumsy attempt at satire) and the routine reports of the two panel discussions, your at- tention to this very ·important issue has ·been limited to reprinting what Professor Zwicker has made available. For that reason (and not, as you most erroneously state, because I faulted you for printing my memo without my approval), I characterized your response as \passive.\ How else could it be described'? Although I applau.d your cooperation in making these materials available, your responsibilities (the title of your first editorial, I remind you) are not \nothing more\ but a good deal more if you are to serve \as a medium of com~ munication.\ Why has the curricular question arisen at this time'? Who is for reform- and of what kind? Who is against it-and why? What are the implications of the various schemes that have been proposed? What are the President's views on the sub- ject? How d·oes the Vice President view the task? Informed opinion on the part of students and faculty requires information. Your role, like that of the news media serving any community, is to provide it. That requires something more than waiting for the campus mail. To claim that the fault for lack of interest in the question \lies in the apathy of the student body, not in the 'passivity' of the paper\ seems rather disingenuous given your own apparent lack of interest. Of course, as college students, you cannot devote yourselves full-time to the pursuit of journalism. And it tnay be that only a small fraction of the thirty-two students listed as staff members on the masthead are prepared to make a significant contribution to the newspaper. But ,.'Respon- sibilities\ did not expound on the value of a good campus newspaper and call for more hands to do the work. Nor did it argue that writing news can be one of the most instructive extra~curricular ~ctivities available at the College. Nor did it lay out the problems of Concordlensis and propose solu.tions. Instead, it piously wrapped the paper in assertions about its function that I regard as false and injurious. If my contentions seem baseless to you, expose the error in the course of a genuine defense; don't distort the argwnent while simpering about your devotion to Union. My response to Professor Withheld will not tax your typesetter very long. This self- righteous midge inflates his thorax to eruct, \I was ab- solutely appalled.\ What is absolutely appalling, however, · is his craven refusal to accept responsibility for his unbased opinions. Furthermore, the \man's\ intelligence is ob- viously the match to his courage. Somehow, he manages to get nothing right. For in· stance: \For instance, how can ( Gado) even consider blaming the present editor.s for things that happened in the 1970's?\ A box of Mars Bars to anyone who can divine how he came up with that reading. Clearly, Professor Withheld has a bone he wishes \to comple\ with me, and he is hiding . not only behind anonymity but also behind a pretense of concern for the paper while he gnaws. Surely, your passion for recording history need not have extended to the satisfaction of his scurrilous instinct. Finally, to Miss Runyon and the .irrational flagellation with which she intends to castigate me for a lack of rationality. Dear Joy: You accuse me of \senseless invective against Concordiensis and everyone else,\ but I defy you to find one line in my first letter that would warrant the charge. Is any criticism \invective\'? Do you know what \invective\ means? Allow me to suggest that your impertinent diatribe demon- strates invective, not my letter of October 10. You accuse me of \petty name calling,\ but I challenge you to find one \name\, petty or grand, in that letter. - You· say my \pointless at~ tack\ indicates that I \smell defeat in the air.\ \Defeat\ on what issue'?· My letter con~ cerned the obligations of a campus newspaper. You pronounce my behavior at the panel discussion \inappropriate and un- becoming,\ and you describe me in terms that would suggest I was demented. Surely, if my · performance had been even half as looney as you say, the Concordiensis reporter should have recorded this piece of history in her article. Was the reporter remiss? Or is the past being refashioned to suit your dastardly purpose? You indict me for egomania; for \getting caught in self· initiated oblivion\ (whatever that means); for isolating myself in \literati and in- telligentsia'' (whatever that means); for demagoguery; for embracing, as my \Destiny to seek and personally destroy any opponents.\ Heavens! And worse, I am \bitter.\ Have the pages of Concordiensis ever smeared ad hominem fudge more thickly on a man's character.'? And with what is this sweet confection stirred? A third gross misreading of my letter! Your characterization of my arguments during the panel discussion as \aggressive\ and \feverish\! Would it not have served a better purpose to have debated the points I raised? (Your feverish and aggressive analysis of my objections to the Freshman Preceptorial, dear Freude, does not constitute a rebuttal: it completely ignores the argument I actually posed.) On the even of Brown's commencement several years ago, Professor Jacob Neusner lamented over the failure of the students' education. Some LETTERS' Thanks Staff and Students To The Editor, At the October 25th meeting of the Building, Grounds, and Equlpment Committee of the Board of Trustees, it was ex• pressed that the· buildings and grounds were in remarkably good condition. The Committee asked us to indicate their thanks to two groQps of people for their efforts in maintaining these pleasant conditions: the maintenance staff and the students. EvEn though there may be mud tracks in front of Hale House and dust everywhere else, the maintenance staff has done an excellent job in sustaining the beauty of the Ramee campus. Maintenance is something we sometimes don't notice UIJtil it is not done, but we nonetheless realize that the atmosphere which students and faculty live and work in does, indeed, affect their attitudes and performance. To the supervisors, foremen, and workers, we extend a sincere thank you. However, the ultimate responsibility of rthe main- tenance of the campus rests with the 2000 students who use it. This nwnber of students has the capability to keep a handful of maintenance employees awfully busy, yet with a com- mon respect for the Grounds, this will not happen. On am impromptu tour of the campus, the Trustees were amazed at the cleanliness of the dorm rooms and common living areas. They believe this is a tribute to these students who do have respect for this campus. Expressing the sentiments and thanks of the Board and with the hope that these con- ditions continue to exist, Andrew George '86 JuJieTh[ountain'87 Student TrtLo;tees FINANCE COMMinEE, 1985-1986 HELPFUL HINTS AND REGULATIONS 1. All organizations have been assigned a Finance Committee Representative. Please consult your representative con- cerning all financial matters; i.e. vouchers, requests for ad· ditional funding. 2. Be aware of your Finance Representative's office hours. They have been assigned for your convenience! 3. In case of an emergency and you can not reach your representative, Mrs. Marra will issue vouchers. 4. Each organization must submit a summary of all financial transactions at the end of each term. 5. Periodically check your organizations file located in Mrs. Marra's office in order to update your financial status. 6. Please give Mrs. Marra a membership list for your organization as soon as possible so that your file located in the Deanot Student's Office may be kept up to date. 7. Matching funds are available on a first come, first serve basis. All fund raising events are subject to Finarice Committee approval. 8. Student Forum meetings are conducted every Monday night at 7; 30 p.m., 3rd floor Old Chapel. finance Committee meetings are held on Sunday nights at 9:00p.m., 3rd floor Old ChapeL Winter Term Preregi$tration Procedures The procedures for winter peregistration will be the same as those used for the fall term. Each student has been assigned to a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be ad- visable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. The date and time for each student's preregistration appointment wi II be printed on the 'label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be a I lowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday Nov. 7 and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/ Add period at the start of the winter term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their Preregistration. Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member· who will preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistrion form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. students called Neusner \half .. insane\ and \arrogant\-~to which he replied, \The students reacted stupidly. Education is supposed to prepare you to argue intelligently. All the students did was attack me personally.\ Jack, I know just how you felt. FrankGado

- - n, to n- >f td e, to to IS IU ~- 1, .y y IS 11 1e ·e 1. E. :6 a d 11 :f s g r e r s s If tf a e l, It .I CONCORDIENSJS, October 31, 1985 Pagel i Professor Rebuts To The Editors, Although I wrote a reply to the editorial and to Professor Name Withheld's cowardly nonsense in the issue of October 17, I consigned it to.my .drawer. Anyone who cared to adjudicate this dispute, I reasoned, could examine my letter and see whether your argument (to use the word loosely) had grounds. In additi~m, it seemed un- productive to prolong a wrangle that was diverting attention from more important issues. But Miss Runyon's atrabilious assault this week has overcome my for.ebearance. There is a limit to the amount of rubbish thrown at my person that I'll tolerate. Let me turn first to \In Defense,\ that heap of abuse which attests an alarming inability to read. You assert that my \ac- cusations\ were \extreme and largely unmerited.\ Pray tell, was the observation that the first editorial lacked clarity \extreme\? If you think so, I shudder in anticipation of your anguish when life rolls peas of much greater size under your mattresses. Was my calling attention to your einbarrassing gaff in misreporting the meaning of \journalize\ at the top of your sermon \largely unmerited\? Ungenerous, perhaps, but by no measure unmerited. But you do not acknowledge these criticisms at all, nor do you address the issue of jour- nalistic responsibility which was the subject of my letter. Instead, you react like sharks roused to a feeding frenzy by their own wounds and attack a figment tortured from my words. Your principal argument, which you repeatedly invoke, concerns my statement that I would have appreciated the courtesy of consultation before you printed a memo I had ad- dressed to the faculty. Did this \merit\ your indignation? Although Professor Zwicker did indeed inform me that the so- called position papers would be printed by you, I did not know that he subsequently submitted the memo I wrote the next week. When I saw the memo in Con- cDrdiensis, I inferred, wrongly, that your reporter had picked it up at the meeting. But my comment about this matter was scarcely the major \ac- cusation\ the reader of \In Defense\ might suppose. The remark-which began, \By the way' '--was enclosed in a parenthesis. Moreover, as I stated, I did not object to the memo's appearance in print. As to the misspelling of my name and the garbled text: please note that my citation of those errors directly follows the phrase, \If you are oroviding record of history .... \ \If not \Since.\ My intent, which should have been obvious to anyone who had read \Responsibilities the first editorial, was to puncture your claim of being the amanuensis to Clio. (Rerun, in their en- tirety, that editorial and my letter of October 10, in a sidebar if you dare.) If one were to asswne the august duty of being the scribe to history, it would call for much greater care in proofreading. But you are publishing a newspaper, not an official historical docwnent- precisely the distinction 1 was trying to underscore. Of course I know that, given the con~ ditions under which newspapers are typeset, the appearance of typos is almost inevitable. (Although I must say, in all honesty, I do not understand why there should be such a density of typos in issue after issue.) If the \problem\ were as trivial as the substitution of a ''d'.' for an \o\, or the jumbling of a few lines of type, you would be quite justified in saying that I have \blown\ (it) a bit out of proportion.\ In fact, the problem concerns the premise trumpeted in \Respon- sibilities\-and implicitly advanced again in ''In Defense.\ I recognize that yoll are not Woodward and Bernstein, that the issue of curricular reform is not comparable in magnitude to Watergate, that Concordiensis is not the Washington Pest. These allusiolls were in response to your coupling collegiate with professional newspapers in regard to their role. That role, you say, is \to record the events of our era.\ I say that such recording, even if it were possible, does not adequately meet your obligations as a newspaper ef whatever stripe. Your coverage of the curricular discussions illustrates my argument. Except for Mr. Lipman's piece (which, until I read the criticism of it by Messrs. Beal and Zwicker, I took to be a clumsy attempt at satire) and the routine reports of the two panel discussions, your at- tention to this very important issue has been limited to reprinting what Professor Zwicker has made available. For that reason (and not, as you most erroneously state, because I faulted you for printing my memo without my approval), I characterized your response as \passive.\ How else could it be described? Although I applaud your cooperation in making these materials available, your responsibilities (the title of your first editorial, I remind you) are not \nothing more\ but a good deal more if you are to serve \as a medium of com- munication.'' Why has the curricular question arisen at this time? Who is for reform- and of what kind? Who is against it-and why? What are the implications of the various schemes that have been proposed? What are the President's views on the sub- ject? How does the Vice President view the task? Informed opinion on the part of students and faculty requires information. Your role, like that of the news media serving any community, is to provide it. That requires something more than waiting for the campus mail. To claim that the fault for lack of interest in the question \lies in the apathy of the student body, not in the 'passivity' of the paper\ seems rather disingenuous given your own apparent lack of interest. Of course, as college students, you cannot devote yourselves full-time to the pursuit of journalism. And it rnay be that only a small fraction of the thirty-two students listed as staff members on the masthead are prepared to make a significant contribution to the newspaper. But ''Respon- sibilities'' did not expoWld on the value of a good campus newspaper and call for more hands to do the work. Nor did it argue that writing news can be one of the most instructive extra-curricular activities available at the College. Nor did it lay out the problems of Concordiensis and propose solutions. Instead, it piously wrapped the paper in assertions about its function that I regard as false and injurious. If my contentions seem baseless to you, expese the error in th2 course of a genuine de£ense; don't distort the argwnent while simpering about yollr devotioll to Union. My response to Professor Withheld will not tax your typesetter very long. This self- righteous midge inflates his thorax to eruct, \I was ab- solutely appalled.\ What is absolutely appalling, however, is his craven refusal to accept responsibility for his unbased opinions. Furthermore, the \man's\ intelligence is ob- viously the match to his courage. Somehow, he manages to get nothing right. For bt~ stance: \For instance, how can ( Gado) even consider blaming the present editors for thirigs that happened in the 1970's?\ A box af Mars Barsto anyone who can divine how he came up with that reading. Clearly, Prefessar Withheld has a bone he wishes \to comple\ with me, and he is hiding not only behind anonymity but also behind a pretense of concern for the paper while he gnaws. Surely, your passion for r·ecording history need not have extended to the satisfaction of his scurrilous instinct. Finally, to Miss Runyoll and the irrational flagellation with which she intends to castigate me for a lack of rationality. Dear Joy: You accuse me of \senseless invective against Concordiensis and everyone else,\ but I defy you to find one line in my first letter that would warrant the charge. Is any criticism \invective\? Do you know what \invective\ means? Allow me to suggest that your impertinent diatribe demon- strates invective, not my letter of October 10. You accuse me of \petty name calling,'' but I challenge you to find one \name\, petty or grand, in that letter. - You say my \pointless at- tack\ indicates that I \smell defeat in the air.\ \Defeat\ on what issue?· My letter con- cerned the obligations of a campus newspaper. You pronoWlce my behavior at the panel discussion \inappropriate and un- becoming,\ and you describe me in terms that would suggest I was demented. Surely, if my performance had been even half as looney as you say, the Concordiensis reporter should have recorded this piece of history in her article. Was the reporter remiss? Or is the past being refashioned to suit your dastardly purpose? You indict me for egomania; for \getting caught in self· initiated oblivion\ (whatever that means); for isolating myself in ''literati and in- telligentsia\ (whatever that means); for demagoguery; for embracing, as my \Destiny to seek and personally destroy any opponents.\ Heavens! And worse, I am \bitter.\ Have the pages of Concordiensis ever smeared ad hominem fudge more thickly on a man's character? And with what is this sweet confection stirred? A third gross misreading of my letter! Your characterization of my arguments during the panel discussion as \aggressive\ and \feverish\! Would it not have served a better purpose to have debated the points I raised? (Your feverish and aggressive analysis of my objections to the Freshman Preceptorial, dear Freude, does not constitute a rebuttal: it completely ignores the argument I actually posed.) On the even of Brown's commencement several years ago, Professor Jacob Neusner lamented over the failure of the students' education. Some LETTERS Thanks Staff and Students To The Editor, At the October 25th meeting of the Bllilding, Grounds, and Equipment Committee of the Board of Trustees, it was ex- pressed that the buildings and grounds were in remarkably good condition. The Committee asked us to indicate their thanks to two groups of people for their efforts in maintaining these pleasant conditions: the maintenance staff and the students. Even though there may be mud tracks in front of Hale House and dust everywhere else, the maintenance staff has done an excellent job in sustaining the beauty of the Ramee campus. Maintena11ce is something we sometimes don't notice Wltil it is not done, but we nonetheless realize that the atmosphere which students and faculty live and work in does, indeed, affect their attitudes and performance. To the supervisors, foremen, and workers, we extend a sincere thank you. However, the ultimate responsibility of rthe main- tenance of the campus rests with the 2000 students who use it. This number of students has the capability to keep a handful of maintenance employees awfully busy, yet with a com- mon respect for the Grounds, this will not happen. On am impromptu tour of the campus, the Trustees were amazed at the cleanliness of the dorm rooms and common living areas. They believe this is a tribute to these students who do have respect for this campus. Expressing the sentiments and thanks of the Board and with the hope that these con- ditions continue to exist, Andrew George '86 Julie MoWltain '87 Student Trustees FINANCE COMMinEE, 1985-1986 HELPFUl HINTS AND REGULATIONS 1. All organizations have been assigned a Finance Committee Representative. Please consult your representative con- cerning all financial matters; i.e. vouchers, requests for ad- ditional funding. 2. Be aware of your Finance Representative's office hours. They have been assigned tor your convenience! 3. In case of an emergency and you can not reach your representative, Mrs. Marra will issue vouchers. 4. Each organization must submit a summary of all financial transactions at the end of each term. 5. Periodically check your organizations file located in Mrs. Marra's office in order to update yout· financial status. 6. Please give Mrs. Marra a membership list for your organization as soon as possible so that your file located in the Dean of Student's Office may be kept up to date. 7. Matching funds are available on a first come, first serve basis. All fund raising events are subiect to Finance Committee approval. 8. Student Forum meetings are conducted every Monday night at 7:30p.m., 3rd floor Old Chapel. finance Committee meetings are held on Sunday nights at 9:00p.m., 3rd floor Old Chapel. Winter Term Preregistration Procedures The procedures for winter peregistration wi II be the sa me as those used for the fa II term. Each student has been assigned to a specific time to preregister. Preregistration will occur in Silliman Hall and will involve each student meeting with a member of the Registrar's staff. Students should review the course I isting, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be ad- visable for students to have a fourth and fifth choice in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. The date and time for each student's preregistration appointment will be printed on the label affixed to their \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students will not be allowed to preregister prior to their assigned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday Nov. 7 and no late preregistration will be permitted. Additional course changes may be made during the Drop/ Add period at the start of the winter term. Students will be admitted to Silliman Hall at the time printed on their Preregistration. Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire still are available. If so, they should ensure that their form is properly filled out and then see a staff member who wi II preregister them. If one or more of the courses they desire are closed, they should select new ones, correct their preregistrion form and then see a staff member. It is hoped that this process will take a student no more than ten minutes at the most. students called Neusner \half- insane\ and \arrogant \--to which he replied, \The students reacted stupidly. Education is supposed to prepare you to argue intelligently. All the students did was attack mP personally.\ Jack, I know just how you felt. FrankGado

Page 12 CONCORDlENSIS, Qctober 31, 1985 THE ARTS Back again ••• Klein at Proctor's ~----~ ----- -----------------J ·.· . . '(' . . . . ' ,;;. . ' \• comedian Robert Klein performed at Proctor's Theater for . H()mecoming Weekend By SARAH CALDERINI Editor-in-Chief Proctor's Theater set the stage for comedy last Friday night at 8:00p.m. Sponsored by the Union College Speakers Forum, Robert Klein provided the audience with lots of laughs for two hours. Although the crowd was anything but \sell- out\ it was apparent that those in attendence were true Robert Klein fans. ·I, however, had never even heard the name Robert Klein before and was therefore somewhat unsure about what was in store for me. Klein strutted out onto the stage sporting a light tan tweed blazer, a plaid shirt, gray pants and a navy tie. And his shoes, well, they were white and left something to be desired. He really didn't look very much like his press picture. \Thank you ladies and gentlemen of the orchestra,\ he said as he grabbed the microphone, \I didn't come up with a big introduction this time.\ He proceeded to remark on the beautiful interior of Proc- tor's with the exception of some flaw in the wall on the right side of the stage and a few other minor damages. \This place was saved by the wrecking ball.\ Walking incessantly back and forth on stage, he continued to say that \if these walls could talk, what stories they could tell. And possibly bore your a- - off, too!'' This line gave way to the first major burst of laughter in the audience. \I'm more fun in person than on TV. I quit smoking and I've put on some weight,\ as some die-hard Klein fans in at- J.L1.1llllliYIII.l.Ll.fiTJ_JJ.IJ.IJ.I~IJ.IJ.l~l~.l.~I~ITIJ_IJ.IJ:~TTO.I.LlJ,I~,IJ.IJ.l UNION CONCERT BOARD In association with Proctor's theatre and WQBK Present: JEAN LUCPONTY Sat., Nov. 9- 8 p.m. ~ TICKETS ON SALE NOW! TI\~ITI\I'I\r~~~~TYTYT~ITITITI~I~·I~I~I\flll\fiTI\r~YI~I¥r~I1~7ITI\fiTITI\fiTI THE UN ION COLLEGE, SOCIAL & CONCERT COMMITTEES PRESENT A REGGAE HALLOWEEN BASH Friday Night, Nov. 1 9:00pm Old Chapel LIVE BAND! Beverage, Popcorn, Dancing, Jah (BE THERE) ten dance could tell by looking at him. \I jogged about an lfs of a mile,\ he said, referring back to his improved health, 1 'but that was about two years ago.\ He said that he once wantedto be a doctor but ended up going into history and political science, which he claimed \is pe-rfect for comedy.\ And, speaking of political science, he opened the door to poking fun at American presidents. I'm glad he didn't go into any Reagan jokes; they get so old after a while. He joked instead about the earliest presidents and wondered aloud how happy George Washington would be \to know that we celebrate his birthday every year with a mattress sale.\ Klein then asked why aliens are always spotted by rednecks and wondered \why don't they land in Carl Sagan's backyard?\ His train of thought is wonderful: from presidents to aliens. From aliens he went on to bowling. He claimed that \Buffalo is the biggest bowling town in the world. wAnd what about bowling shoes, you ask? \Bowling shoes are good for one thing,\ he said. \I've probably spent $500.00 in my life to rent used shoes. What a revolting thought. That's like renting Kleenex or underwear.'' Crude laughter from the audience followed. \There's too much kissie-poo in show business today,\ Klein said, with the audience ob- viously in agreement as shown by their laughter. He then went on to talk about the video tape he made. He said that peqple walk up to him and say, \Hey Robert, I saw your new video, I taped it off my friend.\ Well, Klein thinks that's great but compared it to the criminal offense of tearing the tag off your mattress. He does have this thing about mattresses, doesn't he? To close . the first act, he climbed on the-piano, played by Bob Stein (Who's Bob Stein, you ask? I don't know). Klein sang \The Bronx is Beautiful This Time of Year,\ a very witty song. · The second act was somewhat of a letdown compared to the first act. Klein opened with a song, some words about \I want you.... \. It was a little stupid. Of course, an October comedy act would not be complete without something being said about the World Series. \Well it's an old Missouri World Series,\ he said, \and the Network is puking!\ This line was perhaps the most funny of the whole act. Well, maybe the next lines topped that one. \Boy that Union College is beautiful.\ Cheers from the Dutchman contingent abot.mded. \How many alumni or students of Union are. here tonight?\ he asked. Applause, applause. \And how many of you here won't have anything to do with Union?\ More applause, this time it was louder. Klein talked about the fact that Dick Clark is from the Capital District. \He looks young for mid-50's, but you can't touch him.\ Klein related how he was once on the (then) $20,000 Pyramid, which avid game show fans, like myself, loved. He said that it \screwed up his life for three weeks af- terward.\ People would walk up to him and say, \Hey Robert- - THINGS YOU SAY IN A GREETING!\ He promised to leave us with a profound thought. He finished his show playing a harmonica in time with Bob Stein's piano. They played a song called \I Can't Stop Running\ or something like that. It wasn't too exciting and seemed to never stop running. All in all, Robert Klein was good. He wasn't great like people had told me, but he did have some funny lines. Good enough for a night out in Schenectady. ~WRUC­ SCHENECTADY 88.7 fm STEREO • •THE FIRST STATION Ill THit NATION• It's the WRUC Top 8.97-the listing that makes Casey Kasem stop and say, \But I've never heard of these bands.\ However, as everyone whose anyone knows, these were the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. Request your favorite new music at 370-6151 and actually influence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist 1. TheAlann 2. TheCure 3. R.E.M. 4. PrefabSprout 5. Thompson Twins 6. 10,000 Maniacs 7. KateBush 8. Talking Heads 8.97 New Order Album Label LastWeek _ Strength-IRS-1 The Head On the Door-Elekta-7 Fables of Reconstruction-IRS-6 Two Wheels Good-Epic-8.97 Here's To Future Days-Arista-3 The Wishing Chair-Elektra-7 Holltlds of Love-Capitol Little Creatures-sire-4 Low Life-Quest Program Notes Tune in to JAZZ on WRUC every week day from 1 to 4 p.m. . . . Win tickets to upcoming shows at J.B.'s theatre including the Alarm, Southside Johnny ... A track from each WRUC Top 8.97 Albwn is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS, October31, 1985 THE ARTS Back again ••• Klein at Proctor's L By SARAH CALDERINI Editor-in-Chief Proctor's Theater set the stage for comedy last Friday night at 8:00p.m. Sponsored by the Union College Speakers Forum, Hobert Klein provided the audience with lots of laughs for two hours. Although the crowd was anything but \sell- out\ it was apparent that those in attendence were true Robert Klein fans. I, however, had never even heard the name Robert Klein before and was therefore somewhat unsure about what was in store for me. Klein strutted out onto the stage sporting a light tan tweed blazer, a plaid shirt, gray pants and a navy tie. And his shoes, well, they were white and left something to be desired. He really dtdn't look very much like his press picture. ''Thank you ladies and gentlemen of the orchestra,\ he said as he grabbed the microphone, \I didn't come up with a big introduction this time.\ He proceeded to remark on the beautiful interior of Proc- tor's with the exception of some flaw in the wall on the right side of the stage and a few other minor damages. \This place was saved by the wrecking ball.\ Walking incessantly back and forth on stage, he continued to say that \if these walls could talk, what stories they could tell. And possibly bore your a- - off, too!\ This line gave way to the first major burst of laughter in the audience. comedian Robert Klein performed at Proctor's Theater for . Homecoming Weekend ''I'm more fun in person than on TV. I quit smoking and I've put on some weight,\ as some die-hard Klein fans in at- .f.LLIJ.IIlli~IIIJ.I.f.IJili.I.I.I.IJ.IJ.IJ.IJ.IIIJ.l.t.lhiLIJ.IJ.IJ.IIlJ.IJ.I.TJJ.IJ.IJ.IJ.lJ.l UNION CONCERT BOARD In association with Proctor's theatre and WQBK Present: JEAN LUC PONTY Sat., Nov. 9- 8 p.m. TICKETS ON SALE NOW! il\flll'fl'fl'ff\fl\fl't'ITI'CJTITIIIIITITI'rlll'fiii&ITITIII\CJTJYl\fiTITlilT~TI THE UNION COLLEGE. SOCIAL & CONCERT COMMITTEES PRESENT A REGGAE· HALLOWEEN BASH Friday Night, Nov. 1 9:00pm Old Chapel LIVE BAND! Beverage, Popcorn, Dancing, Jah (BE THERE) tendance could tell by looking at him. \I jogged about an lis of a mile,\ he said, referring back to his improved health, \but that was about two years ago.\ He said that he once wanted to be a doctor but ended up going into history and political science, which he claimed \is perfect for comedy.\ And, speaking of political science, he opened the door to poking fun at American presidents. I'm glad he didn't go into any Reagan jokes; they get so old after a while. He joked instead about the earliest presidents and wondered aloud how happy George Washington would be \to know that we celebrate his birthday every year with a mattress sale.\ Klein then asked why aliens are always spotted by rednecks and wondered \why don't they land in Carl Sagan's backyard?\ His train ofthought is wonderful: from presidents to aliens. From aliens he went on to bowling. He claimed that \Buffalo is the biggest bowling town in the world.'; And what about bowling shoes, you ask? ''Bowling shoes are good for one thing,\ he said. \I've probably spent $500.00 in my life to rent used shoes. What a revolting thought. That's like renting Kleenex or underwear.\ Crude laughter from the audience followed. \There's too much kissie-poo in show business today,\ Klein said, with the audience ob- viously in agreement as shown by their laughter. He then went on to talk about the video tape he made. He said that people walk up to him and say, \Hey Robert, I saw your new video, I taped it off my friend.\ Well, Klein thinks that's great but compared it to the criminal offense of tearing the tag off your mattress. He does have this thing about mattresses, doesn't he? To close the first act, he climbed on the piano, played by Bob Stein (Who's Bob Stein, you ask? I don't know). Klein sang ''The Bronx is Beautiful This nme of Year,\ a very witty song. The second act was somewhat of a letdown compared to the first act. Klein opened with a song, some words about \I want you .... \. It was a little stupid. Of course, an October comedy act would not be complete without something being said about the World Series. \Well it's an old Missouri World Series,\ he said, \and the Network is puking!\ This line was perhaps the most funny of the whole act. Well, maybe the next lines topped that one. \Boy that Union College is beautiful.\ Cheers from the Dutchman contingent abounded. \How many alumni or students of Union are here tonight?\ he asked. Applause, applause. ''And, how many of you here won't have anything to do with Union?\ More applause, this time it was louder. Klein talked about the fact that Dick Clark is from the Capital District. \He looks young for mid-50's, but you can't touch him.'' Klein related how he was once on the (then) $20,000 Pyramid, which avid game show fans, like myself, loved. He said that it \screwed up his life for three weeks af- terward.\ People would walk up to him and say, \Hey Robert- - THINGS YOU SAY IN A GREETING!\ He promised to leave us with a profound thought. He finished his show playing a harmonica in time with Bob Stein's piano. They played a song called \I Can't Stop Running\ or something like that. It wasn't too exciting and seemed to never stop running. All in all, Robert Klein was good. He wasn't great like people had told me, but he did have some funny lines. Good enough for a night out in Schenectady. ~WRUC­ SCHENECTADY 119.7 fm 5T£RIO • •TH£ FIRST ITATIOM IN THI£ NATION\ It's the WRUC Top 8.97-the listing that makes Casey Kasem stop and say, \But I've never heard of these bands.'' However, as everyone whose anyone knows, these were the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. Request your favorite new music at 370-6151 and actually influence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist 1. TheAlarm 2. TheCure 3. R.E.M. 4. Prefab Sprout 5. Thompson Twins 6. 10,000 Maniacs 7. KateBush 8. Talking Heads 8.97 New Order Program Notes Album Label Last Week Strength--IILS--1 The Head On the Door--Elekta--7 Fables of Reconstruction--IRS-{) Two Wheels Good--Epic--8.97 Here's To Future Days--Arista--3 The Wishing Chair--Elektra--7 Hounds of Love--Capitol Little Creatures--8ire--4 Low Life--Quest Tune in to JAZZ on WRUC every week day from 1 to 4 p.m. . . . Win tickets to upcoming shows at J.B.'s theatre including the Alarm, Southside Johnny . . . A track from each WRUC Top 8.97 Album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director \ ·,.f 1 ( . :.-~ . I

g y t ' · CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Page 13 ARTS \FRIGHT NIGHT\ Special Photographic Exhibit Tune in to WRUC 89.7 FM on Halloween for some CHILLING entertainment. Thursday night 11 pm-? An exhibit {)f black and white · photographs by Martin Ben- jamin, assistant professor of art, will be displayed in the facility lounge on the second floor of the Social Science Building beginning Homecoming Weekend. Workfug in a large 16 x 20 inch format, many of the photographs were taken with Film Committee Presents this weekend• Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9,11 . X and The Del Fuegos . .•. 55016 Admission $1.00 infrared film which imparts a moody luminescence to the prints. The Social Science Division welcomes students, faculty, and parents to view a sample of Professor Benjamin's highly innovative and personal images of light and life. The exhibit will run from Saturday, October 26, through Wednesday, November 27. The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now accepting applications for internships for ~he spring semester, beginning January 7. · The internship is designed to offer teachers, college students and high school seniors academic- credit for a semester's work at the Institute. Working as full-time members of the Institute staff, ~he interns participate in all phases of activities of a professional theatre company. During the semester, interns work in both technical and arts- management areas. They at- tend classes and are en- couraged to audition for parts in the resident company's full- scale productions. Concert Connection Applications must be filed by November 15. Further in- formation may be obtained by calling Arlene Leff at 474-1199 or by writing to Intern Program Administrator, ESIPA, Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York 12223. l!t.. MG~Iunited Artists ~ Di!lnbutlon iilnd MarS<ttln& Tuesday, November 6 7,9,11 55016 Admission $1.00 in the Nott Memorial Theatre on Oct. 31· Nov. 1,2,5,7 ,8,9 Students $3 tickets on sale in the Nott Memorial Box Office ... ...-iilliiii-t~~ - ByD.J.HUNT Contributor A spacious new music club on a cold October evening in Albany about two weeks ago was the setting. Two bands differing almost as much in musical types as in geographic origins were the actors. A good time to be had by all was the plot. The setting turned out to be in direct contrast with the act. The show I'm talking about was the pairing of the Del Fuegos and X, on October 17 at JB's Theatre. The Del Fuegos, from Boston, were billed as the \opening act\ but they very easily could've been a main act, as they have been in many parts of the country. Unquestionably a band with a bright future, the Del Fuegos have released their second LP titled \Boston Mass\ and it is worthy of any good R & B record collection. 'During their set they drew mainly from this album but also included a few from their first album including that album's best known song \Nervous & Shakey\. The Zanes brothers, Dan on guitar and lead vocals ~nd Warren on guitar, • Tom Lloyd on guitar and vocals, and Woody Giessmann on drums make up the group. Dan Zanes seems to have most of the songwriting responsibility with a little help from Lloyd. This is apparent from watching him deliver his vocals; it would be almost impossible for him to deliver them with such energy if the words were not his own. His raspy vocals bring real meaning to the tough times he sings about in songs like ''Hold His Own\ and \I Still Want You\. \Don't Run. Wild'', currently the most popular song from tne new album, Hand-ill· 0 P E N I .N G N. I G H T Hand and \Sound of Our . · . . . Town\ are upbeat, very T I C . K. E. T 5 ll/. 2 p R I C .E ! danceable songs. The last S()ng 'I~ for the Del Fuegos was \It's L.... ........ _. _ _, ........ ...._.,...;..;...._...._. ....... ~------...-...------..J Alright\ and if you weren•t jumping or dancing to this song, you're not all right. X, hailing from Los Angeles, took the stage shortly after the crowd had cooled down from the Del Fuegos' hot set. X is a product of the L.A. punk scene as evidenced by their music as well as their dress and their following. Exene Cervenka, one of the lead vocalists and songwriter was dressed in bib overall shorts, with a sleeveless T-shirt revealing considerable cleavage and her \?\ tatoo. John Doe, co-songwriter, bassist and vocalist was decked out in a purple paisley jacket and leather pants, with a pink ruffled shirt. These two provide most of the energy for the band, as Billy Zoom and John Ent- wisle prefer to play guitar, and D. J. Bonebrake is all but hidden from view by his drum set. X' s set featured songs from all four of their albums, but many were chosen from \Ain't Love Grand\ their latest effort. \Love Shack',, \I'll Stand Up For You\ and of course, their single \Burning Hotw: vf Love\ were a few of the new songs. \White Girl\ from their 1981 album Wild Gift was excellent with Exene and John's vocals complimenting Billy Zoom's rearing guitar. At this point the crowd really got to dancing, slam dancing I should say. It was a new experience to witness this painful method of ex- pression. For once, having a pen and paper in my hands was beneficial; it kept me from enjoying the show to the ex- treme I might have done a little slam dancing myself. I con- trolled myself enough to enjoy X unbattered. The song that could have thrust me into the throng of self-abusers was their cover of \Wild Thing\. And yet another cover song, that of the Door's \Soul Kitchen\ was one Of the hottest songs of the evening. (It's not all that sur- . prising they did a Door's cover, being that both bands formed in L.A. and The Door's keyboardist Ray Manzarek has produced some of X's material.) X and the Del Fuegos paired up for a very high energy night of music. JB's Theatre ac- comodates energetic groups very well with its large stage providing ample room for band members to move freely from side to side. There's also a huge floor for the audience to dance, slam dance, or just stand and observe, as well as tables to sit at. (The fact that there's alcohol served at JB 's is also a welcome feature.) Tomorrow, Friday, November 1st promises to be a great night at JB's. From England comes the Alarm. The Alarm is a great new music group getting an increasing amount of radio exposure. They have a new album out titled Strength. The title song is quickly climbing the charts. The Alarm is best known for their anthem ''The Stand (Come on down and meet your maker, come on down and take a stand)\. Strength also has a few songs that come across as anthems such as \Absolute Reality\ and the title track. The other eight songs on this album do not attempt to convey any political statement but are certainly not any less powerful in the amount of energy they possess. A four piece band, with no unessential instrwnents or members, is driven by the vocals of Mike Peters, who co- writes all their material with bassist Eddie MacDonald. The band is very energetic and sure to put on quite a show. So don't hit the snooze button. get off your duff and check out the Alarm tomorrow night at m·~ ,, Theatre.

y . I ' ·,r ···r l . ~ .-~ , I CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 October 31st- Vienna Symphony Orchestra, Proctor's Theatre, 8 p.m. 382 .. 1083 . November 1 .. 11-The Playboy of the Western World, Capital Rep. Market Theatre. Cal1462~4531. November 1--3-They're Playing Our Song~ Schenectady Opera House,. 8 p.m. ; 393-5732. November s~ 9, 15· 11, 22-24-Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream~ coat~ Siena College, 8 p.m. 783 .. 2527. November 16-30-What the Butler Saw, Capital Rep. Market Theatre, for times, 462-4531. November 1st-Judy Collins and Tom Rush, Palace Theatre, 8 p.m.; 465\ 4663. November 1st-Robert Ashley, Memorial Chapelt 8 p.m. Student Activities Box Office. November lst-8hadowfox, RPI, 8 p.m. 274-7793. Novembet; 2nd-Pete Seeger, Spencertown Academy, 8:30p.m., 392-3693. ''FRIGHT NIGHT\ Special Tune in to WRUC 89.7 FM on Halloween for some CHILLING entertainment. Thursday night 11 pm-? An exhibit of black and white photographs by Martin Ben- jamin, assistant professor of art, will be displayed in the faculty lounge on the second floor of the Social Science Building beginning Homecoming Weekend. Working in a large 16 x 20 inch format, many of the photographs were taken with Film Committee Presents this weekend: Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9,11 X and The Del Fuegos ... SS016 Admission $1.00 Page 13 ARTS ,. ~' ~ ' ~ l ' ' i ' l ~ j i~ ' I ,. , l ' 1// infrared film which imparts a moody luminescence to the prints. The Social Science Division welcomes students, faculty, and parents to view a sample of Professor Benjamin's highly innovative and personal images of light and life. The exhibit will run from Saturday, October 26, through Wednesday, November 27. The Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts at the Egg in Albany is now accepting applications for internships for ~he spring semester, beginning January 7. The internship is designed to offer teachers, college students and high school seniors academic- credit for a semester's work at the Institute. Working as full-time members of the Institute staff, .he interns participate in all phases of activities of a professional theatre company. During the semester, interns work in both technical and arts- management areas. They at- .end classes and are en- couraged to audition for parts in .he resident company's full- scale productions. Concert Connection lll!ft. MGM.Umted Artosts ~ [hstribulu,)n ~n.d Marlu~t.ng Tuesday, November 6 7,9, 11 SS016 Applications must be filed by November 15. Further in- formation may be obtained by calling Arlene Leff at 474-1199 or by writing to Intern Program Administrator, ESIPA, Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York 12223. Admission $1.00 THE UNION COLLEGE MOUNTEBANKS Dresent in the Nott Memorial Theatre on Ocf. 31- Nov. 1 , 2,5 ,7 ,8, 9 Students $3 tickets on sale in the Nott Memorial Box Office ByD.J.HUNT Contributor A spacious new music club on a cold October evening in Albany about two weeks ago was the setting. Two bands differing almost as much in musical types as in geographic origins were the actors. A good time to be had by all was the plot. The setting turned out to be in direct contrast with the act. The show I'm talking about was the pairing of the Del Fuegos and X, on October 17 at JB's Theatre. The Del Fuegos, from Boston, were billed as the \opening act\ but they very easily could've been a main act, as they have been in many parts of the country. Unquestionably a band with a bright future, the Del Fuegos have released their second LP titled \Boston Mass'' and it is worthy of any good R & B record collection. During their set they drew mainly from this album but also included a few from their first album including that album's best known song \Nervous & Shakey\. The Zanes brothers, Dan on guitar and lead vocals and Warren on guitar, Tom Lloyd on guitar and vocals, and Woody Giessmann on drums make up the group. Dan Zanes seems to have most of the songwriting responsibility with a little help from Lloyd. This is apparent from watching him deliver his vocals; it would be almost impossible for him to deliver them with such energy if the words were not his own. His raspy vocals bring real meaning to the tough times he sings about in songs like \Hold His Own\ and \I Still Want You\. \Don't Run Wild'', currently the most popular song from tne new album, Hand-in- 0 P E N I N G N I G H T Hand and \Sound of Our · Town\ are upbeat, very T I C K E. T S l l/. 2 p R I C E ! danceable songs. The last song '/: for the Del Fuegos was \It's '------------------------------_;Alright\ and if you weren't jumping or dancing to this song, you're not all right. X, hailing from Los Angeles, took the stage shortly after the crowd had cooled down from the Del Fuegos' hot set. X is a product of the L.A. punk scene as evidenced by their music as well as their dress and their following. Exene Cervenka, one of the lead vocalists and songwriter was dressed in bib overall shorts, with a sleeveless T-shirt revealing considerable cleavage and her \?\ tatoo. John Doe, co-songwriter, bassist and vocalist was decked out in a purple paisley jacket and leather pants, with a pink ruffled shirt. these two provide most of the energy for the band, as Billy Zoom and John Ent- wisle prefer to play guitar, and D. J. Bonebrake is all but hidden from view by his drum set. X's set featured songs from all four of their albums, but many were chosen from •· Ain't Love Grand\ their latest effort. \Love Shack\ \I'll Stand Up For You\ and of course, their single \Burning House of Love\ were a few of the new songs. \White Girl\ from their 1981 album Wild Gift was excellent with Exene and John's vocals complimenting Billy Zoom's rearing guitar. At this point the crowd really got to dancing, slam dancing I should say. It was a new experience to witness this painful method of ex- pression. For once, having a pen and paper in my hands was beneficial; it kept me from enjoying the show to the ex- treme I might have done a little slam dancing myself. I con- trolled myself enough to enjoy X unbattered. The song that could have thrust me into the throng of self-abusers was their cover of \Wild Thing\. And yet another cover song, that of the Door's \Soul Kitchen\ was one of the hottest songs of the evening. r It's not all that sur- prising they did a Door's cover, being that both bands formed in L.A. and The Door's keyboardist Ray Manzarek has produced some of X's material.) X and the Del Fuegos paired up for a very high energy night of music. JB's Theatre ac- comodates energetic groups very well with its large stage providing ample room for band members to move freely from side to side. There's also a huge floor for the audience to dance, slam dance, or just stand and observe, as well as tables to sit at. (The fact that there's alcohol served at JB's is also a welcome feature.) Tomorrow, Friday, November 1st promises to be a great night at JB's. From England comes the Alarm. The Alarm is a great new music group getting an increasing amount of radio exposure. They have a new albwn out titled Strength. The title song is quickly climbing the charts. The Alarm is best known for their anthem \The Stand (Come on down and meet your maker, come on down and take a stand)\. Strength also has a few songs that come across as anthems such as \Absolute Reality\ and the title track. The other eight songs on this album do not attempt to convey any political statement but are certainly not any less powerful in the amount of energy they possess. A four piece band, with no unessential instruments or members, is driven by the vocals of Mike Peters, who co- writes all their material with bassist Eddie MacDonald. The band is very energetic and sure to put on quite a show. So don't hit the snooze button, get off your duff and check out the Alarm tomorrow night at JB's Theatre.

I ' Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, October31, 1985 LOANS ARRANGED: Debt consolidation business, expansion, mortgages, venture capital, aifcraft and marine· financing., farm and agricultural, trucking, theatrical productions - stage - screen - TV video, educational, inventions, franchises, mining,oil drilling, casino and entertain\1ent palaces, hotels,_ motels, ranches, or for any sound purpose in- clud.ing arbitrage lending and Barter. trading. $1 Billion & up. Write in confidence complete details of your needs, or if in a hurry call 203-848-8552 .. BATES BUSINESS CONSULTANTS 123 Maple Ave., P.O. ·Box 233, Montville, Conn. 06353, U.S.A. Telex cable address 1 'B.ATF IN'' We are the only money service in the world (that we know of) that serves bo-rrowers 24 hours per day (8 p.m.- 9 a.m. recorded service) 365 days a year. If you too wish to become an associate loan arranger, write or ca II Bates/Sorrentino for details. ' Ski Mount Snow, Vermont . for $15 per day. Purchase a MOUNT SNOW 6 .. PAC for $90 and enjoy six days of big mountain Vermont sk~ing.on any Tuesday, Wednesday Qr Thursday {non~holiday) throughout the 1985~86 ski season. Why conquer hills when. you can challenge a mountain? Located in easy to reach southern Vermont., Mount Snow boasts 12 lifts (a summit gon~ dola, 5 triple c,hairs, 6 double .chairs)., 57 trails, 1700 vertical feet and 80% snowmaking. Purchase a 6--PAC at the Season Pass Office with a valid college picture l.D. The 6~PAC is non~transferable. . Mount enetu VERMONT For more . Mount Snow Ski Resort information call Mount Snow, Vermont05356 > (802)464 .. 85.01. For the latest ski report call ( 802) 464 .. 2151. .q,.q,.q,.q,.q,.q,.q...q,..q,<.<?>~ ~ The § ~Union College ~ ~ Dance } ~Ensemble t ~ Presents: -~ t\Pieces In~ § . § tProgress\ ~ . § November 14th, ~ ~ 7:00p.m. § l. in the ~ §Vance Studio~ § Reception § ~ following the ~ L!~!~~~~J 1111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 Join Us At· Coffee House Friday, Nov. 1st 9:00p.m. Live Entertainment Hot _Rum & Cider, Coffee, Desserts. Lower Hale House Lounge Tickets Available at Student .Box ·Office unuummnnlllllllllllllllllllll 11111 nn 111111111 . - ' '

' . ' CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Page 15 PAPA •• o~ CICCO'S -~~~ 0 PIZZA · .. ~ WE DELIVER FRE·E 374-4332 COMPARE AND SA·VE!! Round 16'' or 8 cut Pizza (Incl. Tax.) . P·APA CICCO'S ·DO.MIN0 1 S · CAPPELL0 1 S THE STATION $5.06 ·$6.75 $6.12 $6.40 Each Topping $1 .• 00 $1 G25 $1.07 $1.00 Prices are for a Pizza Delivered to Union College! ' BUY THE BEST PIZZA AT THE NEST PRICE! ''Not Just Your Average Pizza Place'' ·COLLECT OUR COUPONS AND SAVE THEM FOR FREE PIZZA OR SEER FREE 32 OZ. SODAS EVERY SUNDAY • with purehase of $5.00 or more . . UNION BEVERAGE CORP. 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McOonalds) HOURS: MON. thruSAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. 3 ·8.2-5958 We r..-ve the right to lirrilt quantities. Not reapon1ibM fM typographical ert\'n. V2 KEG BUSCH $27.50 V2 KEG BUD $33.00 OPEN FOR BUSINESS Watch For Our Grand Opening Coming Soon/ HEINEKEN LI-GHT OR DARK 13.99o.. PIELS EXPORT 5.39c ... BUD EXPORTS 10.39c ... NEW THIS FALL.! UNION COLLEGE FALL SPECIALS Restaurant and Bar Mondays ALL DOMESTIC BEER Tuesdays ALL DRAR BEER FREE Wednesdays CHICKEN WINGS Thursdays ICED TEAS Fridays MIXED HOUSE DRINKS · Saturdays LADY'S NI~HT MICHELOBS ·tp- (All Specials begin at 8 p.m. and End at 12 Midnight) 501 Hattie Street, Schenectady (518) 393·0594 (one block from campus) $1.00 $3.00 2 FOR 1 $1.00 $1.00 $1.00 DRAFT BEER Halves & Quarters Available. Also lc:el Plenty of Free Parking MILLER EXPORTS 9.99c ... Spectacular SRi Fashions 10% Student Discount Along with our incredible selection of the finest alpine and cross country ski equipment, we carry the area~s largest selection of designer ski fashions. Top name fashions fOf men, women & children on sale now It's one thing to ski like a pro, but quite another to look like . one. Come in and see us now!

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, Oc_tober 31.1985 FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (Contact Career Development Center for more info.) -The Coro Foundation is looking for men and women with a demonstrated leadership capability and a dedication to public affairs. Each year Coro awards post-graduate fellowships for the study of the interrelationships between the public and private sectors. A representative of the Coro Foundation will be on ·campus November 12 to interview for the 1986-87 Fellowship year. An information session will be held on November 11 at 7:00p.m. in the Career Development Center. Interested students may sign up for interviews before November 7. JUNIOR MEETINGS RESCHEDULED -The JWlior Meetings have been RESCHEDULED for Tuesday, November5, at 4:30 in SS115, and at 7 pm in SS117. This is an opportunity to find out how you can explore your career options and work values during your Junior year by using the resources available to you through the CDC this year, and by taking advantage of in- ternship and summer job op- portunities, you can better prepare yourself for a productive job-graduate school search during your senior year. We strongly encourage all juniors to attend! SUMMER JOBS- INTERNSHIPS WORKSHOPS -Tuesday, November 5, 4:30 - SS014, 7:00 - Fox Lounge Wednesday, November 6, 4:30 - SS014:, 7:00- Davidson Lounge Learn to use the hidden job market, establish contacts and conduct informational in- terviews along with other strategies for finding a summer job or internship. These workshops will help you determine the types of in- ternships and jobs that will allow you to develop valuable skills. ACTUARIAL CAREERS -Aetna Life and Casualty will hold an information session on Actuarial Careers on November 11 at 7:00 p.m. Sign up in advance at the CDC. -ANAD, The National Association of Anorexia Ner- vosa and Associated Disorders offers voluntary internships for academic credit. Interns will be involved in correspondence with anore ics, bulimics, and their famHies, forming support groups, and answering the bot- line. -Cumberland Farms offers an Employee Scholarship Program for full and pad time employees. Applicants must be working 20 hrs.-week for 52 continucms weeks. -Winant-clayton volunteers places students in a ten-week program in Great Britain. Students spend 7 weeks working on a project and three weeks .traveling. Application deadline is January 31, 1986. -Capital Repertory Com- pany. offers a variety of in- ternships. Applicants must be at least 20 years old and have theater and-or summer stock experience. Positions are also available in technical and administrative areas. -salomon Brothers offers a three-month full-time research assistant program. Assistants will work with an analyst who follows domestic oil. Any majors can apply. -Marymount College Tarrytown offers a summer internship program for college students and graduating seniors. Interns will be placed in an organization in the New York Metropolitan area. They will also participate in seminars at the college. - -The New York State Division for Youth offers in- ternships for college students. Interns can earn academic credit. Students will be involved in writing, graphic arts, and community projects. -The Office of Senator Lautenberg offers internships to students who live in or go to college in New Jersey. Intern- . ships are available· in legislation, press, and ad- ministration. Positions are available in Washington, Newark, and Camden. -WOBK offers internships which provide valuable broadcasting experience. A minimum of two years of college is required. Interns must also be personable, E'LECTIONS FOR EDITOR-IN-CHIEF WILL BE HELD ON TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 12TH 7: 30 P.M. I N T H E CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE-3RD FLOOR OLD CHAPEL ALL STAFF MEMBERS ARE ELIGIBLE TO VOTE organized, reliable, and have a car. -The Summer School in Nuclear Chemistry will be held at the San Jose State University in California. The program consists of an organized lecture and laboratory program. Applicants must be chemistry majors entering their junior or senior year in the fall of 1986. Application deadline is January 15, 1986. \. ' - - ·scHOLARSHIPS -Delta Delta Delta an- nounces its forty-third Serv:ice Projects Scholarship com- petition. Competition is open to all full-time undergraduate women not yet in the senior year. Winners of local $500 awards are eligible for con- sideratioo for four $1,000 national Zoe Gore Perrin scholarships. Applicants for 1986 awards: submit ap- plication form to the Director of Financial Aid by December 1, 1985. Contact Magda Mininberg, Financial Aid Office for ap- plications and more in- formation. -The Society for the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering (SAMPS) announced the continuation of its annual scholarship program that this year will offer eighteen one-thousand dollar awards to undergraduate students. In order to be considered for these awards, the student must be formally recommended by his or her advisor or department head. Although the student must be matriculating in a subject related to Materials and Processes, the actual major may be in a non~engineering science, i.e. physics. All ap- plications must be postmarked by Ji'ebruary 1, 1986. Applicants also receive a free year's subscription to the SAMPE journal. Contact _Magda Mininberg in the Financial Aid Office for applications and info. -The New York State Education Department an- nounces a new series of com- petitions for 50 Regents Health Care Scholarships in medicine and dentistry and 15 Regent,s Professional Opportunity Scholarships in chiropractic, dental hygiene, optometry, physical therapy~ podiatry, and veterinary medicine. These new scholarships were created by 1985 legislation primarily to increase the number of minority-group professionals practicing in New York State. Legal residents of New York State who enroll or will be enrolled in approved programs and who agree to a service commitment are eligible to apply for these awards. Separate competitions are currently being administered for both the 1985-86 and the 1986-- 8'7 academic years. Eligible candidates may apply for both competitions. Award rec~pients of a Health Care Scholarship will receive $1,000 to $10,000 a year for up to four years ·of study. Professional Opportunity Scholarship recipients will receive $1,000 to $5,000 a year for up to four years of study. Please contact Magda M. Mininberg in the Financial Aid Office for applications and more infonnation for these scholarships. CLUB NEWS -\Life Together\: Campus Protestant Ministry Retreat at the Mansion House of First Baptist Church, Schenectady, Nov. 8-9th. Transportation -provided; cost $5.00. Deadline: Monday, November 4. For more info. call Rev. Nevin or Rev. Guralnick at 370-6087. -The American-scandina- vian Forum of the Tri-Cities invites everybody who is in- terested in Scandinavian culture to become members. Membership. includes lectures, gourmet . dinners, Lucia celebration, concerts, mid- summer night feasts, etc. If interested, please call 477-2103. -Halloween Visit to Hospital-Thursday, October 31. Anyone interested in dressing in costwne and visiting children and the elderly at St. Clare's (McClellan St.) may meet at 6:15 at Old Chapel Plaza. -Newman Meeting & Social-Monday, November 4, at 8 p.m. in 2nd floor Conference Room, Whitaker House. Please use back door. / -Oxfam Meeting--Thursday, November 7, at 4:30 p.m., 3rd floor Old Chapel, Room A for all who are interested in helping with the annual Fast which Union will support on November 14. ---.:Trip to Proctor's-Friday, Novem}ler 8, at 8 . p.m. ''American Ballet Comedy.\ Anyone interested in picking up half-price tic~ets for $7, $6, $4 meet at Old Chapel Plaza at '7:15p.m. --Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30p.m. in the Church to rehearse. -Kindergarten Aides- Anyone interested in assisting Pamela Brown at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Tina Sciocchetti, 370- 2275. -Tutors for Computer Math-still needed at St. John's School for Tuesday, Thursday, Friday 10:15-11:00 a.m. If you are familiar with Basic Programming and are in- terested, please contact Jessie a Emery at 393-5331. -The Silent Scream-The controversial film depicting a first-trimester abortion, seen on real-time ultrasound from the victim's point of view. Thur.s., Nov. 7, 7:30 p.m. -in SS115. Sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. -The Film Committee Presents: On Halloween night {Oct. 31), When A Stranger Calls at 7, 9, and 11 . Nov.1-3, Diner, at 7, 9, and 11. Nov. 5, Cloak and Dagger, at 7, 9, and 11. Tickets available in the Old Chapel for $1. ~SATURDAY~ SPORTS DOUBLEHEADER ON WRUC 89.7 FM Union Football at Middlebury Live from Porter Field Coverage Beg,ins at 12 noon U.nion Hockey vs. Babson Live from Achilles Rink Coverage Begins at 7 porn. -Next Week- Football vs. Hamilton- coverage begins at 12:30 Hockey at National Champion R PI Coverage begins at 7 o.m. TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE! ' ££~T~V STA~~ I)£LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.·B p.m. saturday at 8 a.m •. -s p.m. 160 Jay St. • 382-5493 - ,_. I

- y, rd Ill lg ~h m y, n. \ lp $4 at I'S in ry )0 ar ~h g .e e 1- r s ' , u c n n e l, l' l. tt d ~ROOMMATE WANTED: Female wanted for Winter and spring terms. Very ,nice ·apartment, one block from campus. Reasonable rent. Call 346-5349, ask for Sara. -Found: Woman's watch 2 weeks ago on path to the library. Call and describe. x6524, ask for Bob. ......:Tired of living with lousy roommates? I have the solution: 1 bedroom apt. for sublet winter term. One block from campus, very quiet, very modern, new bathroom, baseboard heating, fully fur- nished. Call377-4289, any day of the week. -FOR SALE: 4 piece drwn set, white, excellent condition. Includes hardware (cymbal stand, hi-hat stand, snare stand . and bass pedal). Also a 16\ camber II cymbal. All for 1375. If interested call Nancy, Admissions, 370-6112. -Female Housemate wanted for spring term. If interested, please call1047 Gillespie St. 370. 2713. Ask for Stacy, Minnie or Kelly. First come, first served! PERSONALS Aim- I'd love to listen, if you feel like talking-but you're never home! I miss you too! -G Sarah to Joanne: \I only want to eat the cream.\ Mike To Lisa, Great birthday party but why didn't the MEAT show up? F&D CONCORD.fENSIS, Octoher31, 1985 Tony D.: Congrats on your first marathon- N.Y. will never be the same! Are we Boston- bound now? You still owe us a visit. The Management Is there anybody out there? ~ v.vho remembers the good old days of Conquest, Skylarks, and Royal Guardsmen? Ex- guardie~, I'm looking for you! Are you a closet rifle, flag, 'or sabre? Let me know you're out there--box 1196. Ask .for Anahiem. Lizard lost in Colorado: alias Rapid Fire Liz, When should we pick you up at the airport? It snows in Schenectady too! The Ski Team needs you, who else can we pick on about their height (or lack of)? We miss you! _ Jennapede, Krispy and Sharonna To the guys who live two houses down from the Norstar bank; We all lost it at Chi Psi! Next time I'll cover the rear. You'd better watch out for those aggressive alumni women! The Apple Pie Women Donna A. Happy Birthday!! Did Seth call? You really shouldn't be so aggressive! Is Penny still grounded? See you Sunday. Love your Suites. To Dale Bajcer: Happy Birth- day, when are WE going to cut the cake? Qo you have in- credibubbles too?! Love J, K, and S Team Turf Burns and Kappa Sigma: . Thanks for all of your help and concern. It's made my injury a little easier to take. How 'bout winning the next one for \the Gimper!\ Gimpy RITA: Ein ,frohliches Jahr voll mit vielen FRANKS! ! Happy Birthday l ! ! A BARBARA STREISAND Fan GUTZV--The Boys are doing it! Yeah Yeah Yeah ... Din' it doin' it ... Jessica-Want to come to my pad-leave the roomies behind? some fun w-hug - some hope 4 tmrrw - YNSSA luvJay Lukens-no more Thurs.-nite midterm noise--lite up my hair? AD-Phi-Yeah porch nite bong ball. James-Fall in France and next spring in Austria?? One of us really studied the wrong -language!' See you soon!! ICH LIEBE DICH, Kare To my secret admirer, the Chi Psi history major; If yeu gave up after one phone call, you p:1ust not admire me too much .. . Deb & Lisa, just a warning .. . Be on the lookout for any suspicious looking washcloths. After all, there's nothing worse than a wet washcloth in your ear!!!!!!! You guys are the greatest. Love ya both, Julie ANDREA Love, Happy Birth- day!!! Best wishes--The UNION College Chapter of the Free MUTANT Society of america. SDT Pledges; Welcome Aboard! It's great to have you! SDT Sisters · 'To'J Bear: Is the only way to get a piece of you, to give all of me? Collect soon, please. - M MP F.F.-We are all glad you're here! rJ Vt: ~ '{ WELL - l f I 2nd floor Fox North-HAPPY HALLOWEEN! -Paddington Refrigerator '(alias Joe Rupsis): Kosher inebriation time is after 11- not 9! Next week .... NO ONIONS! Hey Rob! Where's the hepatic portal vein?! Remember don't eat breakfast. Ulg, Moron, and K. Hey Pat, , Let's chug-- Kitchenette 2; Pat-0 K.T.W. Pete N.-What's it been not, 6 weeks? Have you called everyone you know? Guess who. Paperbag-man: Your direction was off but at least your aim was good, Clean-up Crew. Lisa, You must be exhausted after that sex worship. Did you PASS? How about your SCORE? I know that it was the CLIMAX of your education at Union. Happy Birthday J.M. John, have a happy 21st. -Mom&Dad Congratulations to the new pledges of Delta Gamma. We're psyched to have you aboard. To my S.B.B.-Union just isn't the \fun place to be\ without you here. Can you come down to my room? I MISS YOU!!!! Love, your S.B.B. SOT Pledges: Congratulations, . and get psyched for the next 3 years as pledges! Page 17 Mark M. Where do you live? Karen Come back Snuffles-Cocoa and Danny. We love Heather and Butter Crunch, but we miss you. -Love, Bananas, Curious George, Jelly Bean, & Scooter Apps, Happy Birthday and Good Luck in the coming season. Love, Karen Steve, Hope your birthday was fantastic. Happy November! See ya October! Thanks for the 14th. It was great! Love you! DEmThiaLyn Forever! We are awesome! To my good friend Usa, Thanks for coming to my concert! What are friends for? Love, Jo A.M.-Let's just say, I'm glad we met, I know it.sounds queer but it's true. Kris-Wild women don't get the blues! (I hope they get it right this time) -GVS Chris: Thank you so much for hanging out with me at Ellis Hospital. I appreciated your company and help. Marianne J1LA\\RY - WAkE- u~ H DNE Y, oR Yov 'L-L- BE- L~TE. F<JR. ScHOOL~ ) yov woNT Gf.T uf) I'LL HAV£ /0 G£1 you 1Z- F-ATH£1<. ! L f\f.~ '( - -n--It 5 IS youR_ Fffff1 ~ R! l F I you po N T G-ET U f; \'LL HAVE TO GIVE.. - you A Sf-AN kING ~ (, o s TV fVl E 1 YoU Look rvsT Ll ke I s\\ol u~) \\{\ ~ • a•.\ :--,\ \ Jl, ) I ·--::/ o '·II ...- ,...-_, --..r;n-., -~..,. _.. ~OORf\Y! HOORAY! EiJGJf\IE.~R.I {')(;, LAB 1- ot>t1Y ~ lfOORAY.' r{oo\Z~ Yf I I rv\ GON tHt ( -rt: 1\GH Tl-1 E..- £.rJ(;IIJ.J:-E.~ 1\. 1\lf-(_,.} s,\' 6 .' 'J.J//111/j, \ ::: I ; WHY WOULD YOU W'ftr,Ji TO tlU~T ML? BE-GA:vsf£- T E.tJ:rqY LdMfUT/ tJ b Srlt:£R. STR£~s£5 AND c. o rJ s~v en r-.1 6 ~() _ ~~u)t::- A REV~RS£.. I\\ f't fQC}T~~l o f- AM P 1 ~~~~.klJ 1 N DUC.TO \<-., \ \\'\'>rl'77:m ffill\\~ I ok~Y I OkAY 0 I .,

' .. . , Page 18 COJYCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1'985 . SPORTS Ruggers Lose Final GaJne Ath.lete of the Week By CHRIS SHERIDAN Sports Staff After coming back from a 10-0 half-time deficit during Homecoming Weekend, to a 10- 9, the Union Rugby squad couldn't seem to put any more points on the board and even- tually lost to leag:ue runner-up Cortland State 16-9. A Rough Game Union didn't start off on the right foot in the game, losing serum-half co-captain · Jeff Wilson after he was need in the face causing extensive bleeding-resulting in seven stitches above his eye. Rich Allen came in for Wilson, and ended up having a superb game. Also injured in the matchup was alumnus Jim McNeil who was filling in for co-.captain wing- forward John Friske who has been sidelined due to a separated shoulder. McNeil got one of his fingers sliced during action in the second half and was replaced by Bruce Sch- wartzman. Cortland scored first early in the game, and converted the try to make the score 6-0. They scored again, but missed the conversion to put them up 10-0. After a half-time pep talk by Friske, Union came out fired-up to begin the second frame and scored early. Kevin Fortin got the ball and raced 25 meters down the field toward a try before pitching the ball to Ron Amidon who ran through with style-carrying the ball on his hip. Amidon also had an in- credible run for a try last week against Syracuse. If Union can get their line to work like that during the spring season con- sistently-they could be un- stoppable. Union Comes Back Later in the second half, Cortland was called for a penalty on the 4() meter mark on their side of the field. Co- captain Friske yelled to Union kicker Tim Hopkins from the sideline, \Hoppie can you hit it?\ Hopkins looked at the goal posts 40 meters down the field, swaying in the high winds, looked at the almost impossible angle he'd have to put the kick at so that it could squeak through the uprights, looked back at Friske and said, \Yeak I can hit it.\ He proceeded to kick the most perfect kick possible to put Union behind by one, 10..:9. With their intensity high and not much time left in the game, a few plays later, Cortland intercepted a Union pass; while possibly being offsides and ended up running the ball in 10 meters for the try. After con- verting the kick, the game soon ended and Union, who dominated uch of the game, found themselves behind 16-9. Good Balance of Players Ben Haftel, who was filling in in the hooker position for in- jured Dave Blee, successfully hooked tl:le majority of the balls in the serum-downs. Union won virtually all of their own serum- downs due to the great pushing of the serum, and Haftel's hooks. \Ben did a great job,\ said prop Rob Sharp who played a big part iii Union's success this season. Sharp had his share of hits during the game, as well as great push in the serum. Union rugger Steve Lipsky, Sharp's prop-partner also had a great game and season. Lipsky spoiled more throw ins by op- posing teams during line-outs than anyone else on the Union squad. Wing-forward Dave Jennings continued to play with all of the intensity usually associated with Union's team. Jennings was one of Union's hard-hitters this season-along with Jeff Albrecht who showed he can pull down almost every line-out thrown to him, as well as hit hard and run hard. Wing- forward, John friske had a great season up until his injury. But even though he was sidelined for the last couple of games, his presence and in- tensity was still felt out on the field as he yelled and motivated the players from the sideline. Ron Amidon had a great game and put out his usual maximum effort throughout the game on the line. He has proven himself throughout the season as an excellent runner who has once been called a \freight train with Walter Payton's legs Meadowlands/Lambert Cup Division Ill Football Poll 1. Carnegie-Mellon 2. Gettysburg 3. UNION 4. Lycoming 5. Wagner 6. Washington & Jefferson 7. Ithaca 8. Montclair St. 9. Kings Point 10. Salisbury St. 1. August ana 2. Central Iowa NCAA Division Ill F ootba II Poll 3. Carnegie·Mellon 4. UNION 5. Mount Union 6. Lycoming 7. Wisconsin-River Falls B. Gettysburg 9. Dennison 10. Ithaca 1. Brandeis 2. Elizabethtown 3. Wheaton 4. Claremont NCAA Division Ill Soccer Poll 5. North Carolina-Greensboro 6. UNION 7. California· San Diego 8. Washington U. 9. R.I.T. 10. Messiah 8·0 7·0 7-0 7·0 7·1 6·1 5-1 6·1 6·1 6·1 7·0 7-0 8·0 7-0 7·0 7-0 6·0·1 7-0 7-0 5-1 15·1 14·1-l 14-1-2 14·1·1 13-1-1 9-1-1 18·1 16·2 11-0·.3 13·1-1 attached.'' Ron has also established that he is one of Union's hardest hitters. Co- captain Jeff Wilson played well while he was in the game as he has all season. His passes from the serum to the line have been a big part in Union's success this year. Bill Magnota had a greatseason on the line. He has shown his running, kicking, and hitting ability. Steve Konlian fs another Union rugger <that pro,ved his superb running ability with a few tries of his own this year. Of course, one can't forget Tim Riley's con- tribution to the team this year. He is perhaps the purest runner Union has ever seen and has contributed immensely to every game this year. Exchange Student Integral Part of Team English exchange student Matt Squires has given more to the team in his first and last season as a Union rugger than just skill and knowledge of the game. He has added a comical side to the game. Who can forget the time when Matt was caught between American and Canadian customs overnight after Union's Plattsburgh road trip? And who else on the rugby team could break up everyone in laughter during the most intense moment of the game by kicking the ball a good 20 meters backwards instead of forwards. But his skill and great personality greatly overhadowed his few mistakes and made every team mem.ber sure that he will be sorely missed in the seasons to come- as a player, but even more, as a great friend. BSquadWins Homecoming Weekend is a time from alumni to come and visit the school. Union's Killer B team didn't mind the fact that several alumni came back for homecoming-three of which played for the B's in their 22-0 destruction of Cortland's B- team. Prop Meade Summers, speedster Andy Klumpff, and Hooker Gino Gass played for the B's. The three all played on last year's championship team along . with Steve Cole, Doug Baumgarten and Rob Israel, who came back for the Homecoming contest. Alumnus Steve Patterson, an ex-Union great, also came back for the game. Gass's great hooking helped Union's cause in their shutout victory. Ed Hart scored twice, Summers scored once, Klumpff had one try, while Killer B regular Larry Grob had his first try of the season. Because of the high winds, Pat DiCierbo was only able to convert on of the trys. By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor The 1985 Union field hockey team certainly. made them- selves look very respectable this past weekend at the New York State Association of Inter- collegiate Athletics· for Women Tournament at Rochester. One major contributor to the team's performance, during the tournament and all season long, is Julie Fitzsimmons. In the team's final game of the tournament, the senior from Wethersfield, CT, scored the game winning goal in triple overtime to fefeat Hamilton 2-1. This win allowed Union to stay at number five in the state. In the team's other two tourney games, Fitzsimmons tallied a total of two goals and two assists as Union defeated Brockport State 4-0 and lost to Oneonta State 4-3. During the 1985 campaign, the center-midfielder has .scored nine goals and assisted on two others for 11 points. Fit- simmons finished as the team's third leading scorer. Senior co-captain and for- . ward Cheryl Washburn said of Fitzsimmons, ''She played real well this weekend. Julie is fun to play with because she is very reliable and plays aggressively.\ Fitzsimmons has also played lacrosse at Union and is an electrical engineering major. Congratulations to Julie Fitz- simmons as this week's athlete of the week. Honorable mention also goes to freshman forward Courtney JulieFHzSimmons 0 ...... 0 ..c c. 0 (/) Lynch, who played a strong second half of the season for the team and w.as chosen to the All- - tournament team this weekend. I X-Country Loses Dual Meet I By ANDY HODGKIN The Union men's cross country team came up empty handed Saturday Oct. 19 at Colgate as they lost dual meet decisions to both Colgate and the University of Vermont. The Dutchmen lost by one point to each team, with both dual meet scores being 27-28. Union was able to place their top five runners in the top eleven in the three-way race but a lack of top places hurt in the scoreing. The Dutchmen could only manage one runner in the top seven. This was the first meet Junior Mike Reed has competed in this year after coming back from a knee in- jury. He played no role in the final score due to a twisted ankle during the race. '. Turning in a . good per- formance for Union was Senior Chris O'Donnell who placed third overall and first for the Union harriers. Following O'Donnell there was a total absence of the garnet and white until the eighth position when Bob Stenard led a wave of Union runners rounding out the Union scoring. Senior Bill McRoberts followed Stenard and Dave Defilippo and Ed Hart com- posed the rest of the Union quintet. The men's junior varsity team competed at the Albany Invitational on Saturday, finishing fourth out of nine teams competing. Joe Voyticky and Steve Szydlik highlighted the J.V. performance, placing 22nd and 24th respectively. This coming weekend the harriers enter post season competition as they travel to Rochester f<lr the New York State meet. · Be a part of Union College Hockey!! Join the Skating Dutchmen Pep Band Any interested musician please contact Kathy Natole at Achilles Rink ·370- 6134 Ben Haftel grabs Cortland State rugger during Union's 16-91oss over the weekend. • t r t I f l

CONCORDIENSIS, October 31, 1985 Page 19 !Football Scandals a In s. w.c.j ByP.T.A. Sports Staff A recent wave of problems has again beset the UCAA. Two more of its member schools have either admitted or been accused of making illegal payments .to college. athletes. The NCAA forbids schools from giving its athletes money beyond a full s_cholarship. It seems obvious that many school boosters feel they are exempt from this rule. Texas Christian University is the most recent case. Six of their starter& admitted that they had received money for their playing services. These players included all-American Kenneth Davis along with five other starting players. TCU's reaction to the incident will hopefully start a precedent. Instead of denying the problems existed, they suspended the six players and confessed what had happened to the NCAA. TCU will still be punished pending investigation, but it's about time a University showed some integrity when dealing with cheating. Two other universities acted in completely opposite ways when accused. SMU and Texas A&M felt they were being pinpointed by NCAA in- vestigators. For SMU, who has been penalized five of the la·st eight years, this might be the case, but if they stopped cheating, they might not face these problems. Until a better system is found, Universities must suffer for their actions. The NCAA has been slow to act on many proposals to curb these problems, and seems to be continuing this course. Until they realize college sports are a big business, with the players and the employees, the cheating will continue to be widewpread. A story over the weekend that charged more than two dozen University of Kentucky basketball players had received illegal payments has prompted a plea of innocence from the current roster. Coach Eddie Sutton says his players told him they \haven't done anything wrong.\ A \Lexington Herald- Leader\ reported Snnday that 26 former Kentucky basketball players admitted receiving cash, gifts or meals while playing for the school. The report covered a 13-year period at Kentucky. (Ed. Note) I Soccer Improves Ranking I By CHARLIE SLOTNIK Sports Editor The ·union soccer team remained undefeated after two tough games last week. The Dutchmen traveled to Rochester Friday to play a rare night game vs. the University of Rochester. The game was scoreless at the end of regulation as a scrappy Rochester team forced the Dutchmen into overtime. Rochester and Union ' had several chances to score in the overtime period, but neither team could capitalize on their opportunities. Al Trageser played exceptionally well in goal for Union. On Monday Union hosted Division 1 Colgate. The Dut- chmen led by goalscorers Doug Wilk, Dave Tewksbury, and Steve Hartman paced the ,Dutchmen to a 3-2 victory over the Red Raiders. The Dutchmen move from ninth to sixth in this week's N.C.A.A. Poll as Washington U., and Drew each lost games last week. The hooters close out their season with two home games. They play St. Lawrence Saturday at 2:00, and North Adams St., Monday at 2:00. An article on the front page of Monday's Wall Street Journal irked me. No, the article did not reveal that a company I own stock in filed for bankruptcy, nor did the article confirm the two trillion dollars deficit would increase. The article was about football. E.S.P.N., the Cable Sports Network, wants to televise the lOoth meeting between Williams and Amherst on November 9th. The network's motive for the telecast was not profit. The programming directors at E.S.P.N. felt by showing an important small college football game between the two premier academic institutions in the nation they could enlighten an audience whose menu of college football games consists of Texas, Ohio State, and Notre Dame. However, Amherst's coach Jim Ostendorp declined the offer believing the telecast would not be in the best interest of the college. As a result, the game will not be televised. \We don't have the stadiums, the crowds, the bands, the cheerleaders, or the teams to, play on national television,\ coach Ostendorp says. \We're number one in small college academics. To put us on T.V. and say, 'This is Amherst,' well it just doesn't measure up.\ Keep in mind during the N.F.L. strike, two division three schools, Slippery Rock and Wittenburg, played on CBS with ratings no lower than Howard Cosell's weekly sports magazine, \Sports beat.\ Williams coach, Bob Odell, disagrees. \I think the exposure would be great for the kids. They work hard on the field as well as in the classroom all Junior Doug Wilk goes for header in last few minutes in soccer game vs. Colgate. The Dutchmen came up on top by a score of 3·2. PAISA MISfR 113 Jar St., S~ll'o -l•dlallllltortt -117-7113 ___ ....,B;;_:ring in coupil~·- .... Complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pants, Brass Gifts Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc. Open Mon.-Fri. 10:00-6:00 p.m •. • Thurs.lO:OOa.m •• f:OO p.m. Also accepting,American Exoress PERSONAL CHECKS ACCEPTED LAY·AWAY • We will hold your purchase with a small deposit We Also Do Alterations C!Inncnt~itnsis SPORTS Charlie ·slotnik Loo'k_ing at Sports week, and receive little recognition, tlever mind publicity.\ Both coaches feel strongly that the game is for the players. Coach Ostendorp thinks that most viewers would not un- derstand the ideals of small college football, and therefore label it as Pop Warner. Bob Odell considers it a ''great thrill\ to play on national television, a view Union coach AI Bagnoli agrees with and added \the viewers are smart enough not to com- pare Nebraska and Williams.\ Mr. Ostendorp is no siouch of a coach. His team had won 15 straight games before losing last Saturday, and he has won over two-thirds of his games in his 27-year coaching career. Amherst sports information director John Lohre and star quarterback Paul Foye agree that the \Dorp as he is called 'by students, primary interest is academics, and his players well being. FGye adds, \Sure you'd like to play on national T.V. but all the players respect his decision; you have to un- derstand, he's a traditionalist.\ Amherst is turning down a chance for exposure that could really help both schools attract student athletes, something they have difficulty doing, since they are not allowed to recruit or give athletic scholarships. There are many bright student athletes in remote and distant parts of the country that have never heard of Williams, or Amherst and because of one coach's view it is evident that the situation will not ch~nge. Since Amherst and Williams are elite schools with tremendous reputations, they tend to attr~ct similar students, and thus there is an intense rivalry in the classroom, on the athletic field, and in the board rooms after graduation. To accuse one school, and not the other, of snob appeal would be ludicrous. However, in this instance it. seems one person, Jim Ostendorp, believes Amherst College sits on a pedestal that is above having its football games broadcast on national television. Perhaps coach Ostendorp's belief that the majority of viewers would not appreciate the level of play is valid. However, there is some con- solation for Williams and Amherst Alumni, who ap- preciate watching their alma maters on the gridiron. The game will be broadcast via satellite to sites in 29 cities including Honolulu and London. +++ Williams coach Bob Odell on the end of the 100 year rivalry between Union and Wiliams in 1987, \I respect the turnaroWld in the UNION Football Program. They have a tremendous team. AI has done a great job. They left the New England Small Conference Athletic Conference (NESCAC), and thus have a different set of recruiting rules. They are currently the only team on our schedule that is not a N.E.S.C.A.C. team.\ +++ Union's next two games versus Middlebury (3-3) away next Saturday, and Hamilton (5- 1) home on November 9th could be the Dutchmen's two toughest. Middlebury upset Hamilton last Saturday 24-17. The Panthers scored the decisive touchdown on a 70-yard run with only a minute remaining in the game. Another Division III upset occurred last Saturday when 7th ranked Amherst fell to Tufts. The loss snapped the Lord Jeffs 15-game winning streak . . . Joe Dudek of Plymouth State (N.H.) broke Walter Payton's record of 66 touchdowns in a season. Dudek scored 5 touchdowns for a career total of 70 as Plymouth State beat Bridgewater State .. . Augustana 28, North Central 0 . .. Carnegie Mellon 38, Bethany, 13. +++ Al Bagrioli's win on Saturday was his 34th; ·which breaks P.E. Leary's record for the most career wins by a Union coach. Also, Bagnoli's .877 winning percentage is the highest of all Dutchmen coaches ... For the third year in a row, Union will enter the Middlebury game undefeated ... A win Saturday should assure the Dutchmen of an NCAA playoff bid. +++ Give Chicago Bears Coach Mike Ditka credit for his creativity by using nose guard William \the refrigerator\ Perry as a fullback in short yardage situations . . . One would hope President Reagan is better with the names of foreign heads of state than he is with the bullpen of the World Champion Kansas City Royals. Sunday night President Reagan referred to Kansas City's ace relief pitcher Dan Quissenberry as Jim Quissenberr ... This Saturday's showdown between Ohio State and Iowa should give us some indication of just how good Iowa is. Incidentally if Iowa concludes the season undefeated, Chuck Long is my choice for the Heisman Trophy, if not then the Naval Academy's Napoleon Maccullum . . . A minimum of 5 big ten and 5 SEC games will appear in bowl games this year, and I would not be surprised if 3 from each conference were playing on New Year's Day. +++ Many people believe that George Steinbrenner tried to upstage the World Series by announcing Lou Pinella would replace Billy Martin as Yankees manager on the day of the seventh game of the fall classic. Perhaps Steinbrenner was thinking the opposite. By making the announcement on the same day as the New York 9ity Marathon, the Yankees did not receive the same amount of press as they would have received if the announcement was made on a weekday after the World Series. +++ The Union College Skating Dutchmen open up their season Saturday night at 7:30. UNION will host the Babson Beavers in an e!;hibition game at Achilles Rink. The two teams met last year in the NCAA quarterfinals, a two-game total goals series. The two teams each won a game. However, the Dutchmen won the first game by a wider margin, and therefore ad- vanced to the NCAA semifinals where they were defeated by R.I.T. Two years ago the two squads met in the NCAA Championship game; which the Beavers easily won 8-0. Both coaches, Charlies Morrison and Steve Stirling, are expected to use their full rosters and play more than one goalie as .they make final preparations for the regular season.

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, Octoher.JJ, 1985 (ij' - ..... ro I c: (I) al >- .0 0 - 0 .c: 0.. .c: u 0 :I.! 'C 'i: 01 c: >- .0 .e 0 .c: Q. Ruggers Finish Season seestoryonpage1s Dutchmen Beat Ephs seestoryonthispage Thursday I October r31, 1985 ... 7-0 for 3rd straight year Dutchmen Mak~ HomecomingASucce.ss By TED CANNON Sports Staff ... 7 -o for 3rd straight year . . Although it was not the most stunning performance of the year for the Dutchmen, they did manage to subdue a stubborn Williams squad 21-10, and remain the only NCAA Eastern Regional team to be unbeaten. The game opened as a test of defenses, as neither side could . mount much of an offense. Junior tailback Todd Walker, Union's leading rusher, who had 80 yards on 16 carries for the day, got the Dutchmen ·on the board first, halfway through the first quarter, with a 1-yard touchdown plunge. In the second quarter, sophomore split end George McEvoy, replacing the injured Jim LaFrance, hauled in his first collegiate touchdown pass. Greg Sticka's second of three points after try's on the day gave Union a 14-3 halftime edge. While the Dutchmen fumbled and stumbled through their worst half of football this season, offensively, the only points they could muster was a 9-yard Gargiulo to sophomore flanker Cecil Bright scoring pass. Defensively, Union improved over their Coast Guard per- formance, but has still not dominated the way they did earlier in the season. The weak Williams offense did manage a second half touchdown to produce the 21-10 final. Junior strong safety Steve Alves had an outstanding game, including pilfering his fourth interception of the year. Senior linebackers Lou Hughes and Pat Wrigl)t were also outstanding on the day for the Dutchmen. The most exciting news about the Dutchmen last Saturday came from off the field as rival Eastern Regional powers Ithaca and Hamilton lost their first games of the season. This Saturday, Union travels to Middlebury where they have not won since 1971. Last week the Panthers handed Hamilton a 24-17 defeat. Kickoff is at 1:00 p.m. Ed. Note-LaFrance was taken to the hospital after the game and it was reported that he had broken his leg. The good news, however, is that it is only a sprain and he might only have to miss one game. 1 score by periods: Williams 1 3 1 7-10 Union 7 1 o 1-21 ~.- T. Walker, 1, run (Sticka, kick l •• - Goodspeed, 2~. field goal U - McEvoy, 3. pass from Gargiulo !Sticka. kick). U - Bright, 5, pass from Gargiulo I Sticka, kick! w - Jeffrey. 15, pass from Morris (Goodspe ed, kick l Firs' down$ Rushes yerds Pa~slng yards Passes Returns yards Punts averege Fumbles lost Penalties yerds STATISTICS Williams 11 31-611 .. 1~35-2 115 1·40.5 1 4·50 Union 20 Sl·207 132 12·31-ll 90 7·28.2 3 1~95 DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK Thursday, 10/31 Soccer at Vassar Volleyball vs. Russell Sage, Oneohta Footbaf·l at Middlebury Soccer vs. St. Lawrence Saturday, 11/2 Men's Cross Country NY States at Rochester Volleyball at Skidmore Tourney Hockey vs. Babson Monday, ll/4 Soccer vs. North Adams Tuesday, 11/5 Men's Cross Country f C4A meet at NY Tech GARNET SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (7-0) Union 21 MEN'S SOCCER (9-1-1) Union 0 Unior~3 WOMEN'S SOCCER (5·8) Skidmore 3 Union4 . Albany St. 3 Fl ELD HOCKEY (5·1) Oneonta Union - Union 4 Union 2 WOMEN'S TENNIS (4-8) Union 5 Middlebury 6 Hartwick 6 2:30 7:00 1:00 2:00 7:30 2:00 WilliamslO Rochester 0 Colgate 2 Union 1 Green Mountain 2 Union 1 (OT) 4 3 Brockport St. 0 Hamilton 1 (3 OT) Sienna 4 Union 3 Union 3 Women Hooters Split Two .s:: u 0 :I.! ~ I.. 01 c: >- .0 0 .... 0 .s:: 0.. Sophomore Jim LaFrance goes up for reception against Williams in first quarter before injuring leg.· >- .0 .e 0 .c: o.. Senior Pete Cohan kicks the ball .off after George Mccuoy's .3 yd, TO recep'tlort fr6m•Wt\ike Gargiulo. By WOMEN'S SOCCER TEAM It's been a difficult season for the lady hooters. Though there have been a few too many disappointing outcomes the squad has a great deal of talent and depth that have helped keep them in close running with their contenders. Last week . the Dutchwomen split with Skid· more and Green Mountain to bring their record to 5-8. Against Skidmore Union was once again forced to shift their positioning to compensate for several injuries. One noteworthy switch occurred in · the backfield due to netminder Sarah Shaw's blow received in the Plattsburgh game. Sophomore fullback Colleen Dundon stepped into the cage for her first full game at that position. Union .played aggressive both on offensive and defense but could not get on the scoreboard until the second half when Erin Sheehan scored on a direct kick that the Skid- more goalie had no chance of stopping. Unfortunately Skidmore managed to put three goals by the Union defense to end the game with a 3-1loss for Union. Last Thursday in the midst of rain and cold the lady booters played on Garis. field and basically knocked the socks off a previously undefeated Green Mountain squad. The Dut- cbwomen · weJ.\e Qverdue for a · victory and to~k the; Vennont· .'' based team by surprise. Union set the pace of the game early in the contest as Mary Soley put the first goal in with only two and a half minutes elapsed. Just one minute later Lynn Chabot scored another to put Union on top 2-0. Colleen Dundon started in cage with Sarah Shaw returning late in the half. The two combined efforts to hold Green Mountain scoreless for the half. Green Mountain got back into the game by scoring their first goal early in the next period. However, Union's momentum didn't fold, and Lisa Rathburn placed a direct kick into the top left corner of the net just out of reach of the Green Mountain keeper.. The scoreboard read 3-1. Beth Wright knocked in a shot in a crowded penalty area to in- crease Union's lead by three. Green Mountain popped in a second goal at 8:19 but to no avail, as the final score of 4-2 brought them their first defeat of the season. The Union squad worked well as a unit which enabled them to pull off this big win. The Dutchwomen conclude their season today against Siena at 2:30 on Garis Field. Lisa Rathburn in action vs. Albany State. Union lost a hard fought game .. 3;1-i.t:I:OY~rfiJtr~. .. • \ ··-- ·--' ~ v '~. ··\' ......... • , • .,... ; 1 1 :Jv .~ ,,, • ',i.'-'11... • .•.. v1.ctnry and tr.n.!l - ex - 0 '\ It's Uni soc the Vi< Adl 'l dri Un Afl Al~ Co hel fox gi' WI f all to th th el re th C( s~ di S1 fi la; a: 01 y p p a t' ,, t 1 I i t ' . t·. ~ !

Page 20 CONCORDJENSJS, October 31, 1985 Q) +- - ro I c: Q) co >- .0 0 ~ 0 .c: a. ..c: u 0 :,! ~ I.. Cl c: >- ..c 0 +- 0 .c: a. Ruggers Finish Season seestoryonpagels Dutchmen Beat Ephs sees.toryonthispage Thursday, October 31, 1985 . . . 7-0 for 3rd straight year Dutchmen Make HomecomingASuccess By TED CANNON Sports Staff ... 7-0 for 3rd straight year .. Although it was not the most stunning performance of the year for the Dutchmen, they did manage to subdue a stubborn Williams squad 21-10, and remain the only NCAA Eastern Regional team to be unbeaten. The game opened as a test of defenses, as neither side could mount much of an offense. Junior tailback Todd Walker, Union's leading rusher, who had 80 yards on 16 carries for the day, got the Dutchmen on the board first, halfway through the first quarter, with a 1-yard touchdown plunge. In the second quarter, sophomore split end George McEvoy, replacing the injured Jim LaFrance, hauled in his first collegiate touchdown pass. Greg Sticka's second of three points after try's on the day gave Union a 14-3 halftime edge. While the Dutchmen fumbled and stumbled through their worst half of football this season, offensively, the only points they could muster was a 9-yard Gargiulo to sophomore flanker Cecil Bright scoring pass. Defensively, Union improved over their Coast Guard per- formance, but has still not dominated the way they did earlier in the season. The weak Williams offense did manage a second half touchdown to produce the 21-10 final. Junior strong safety Steve Alves had an outstanding game, including pilfering his fourth interception of the year. Senior linebackers Lou Hughes and Pat Wright were also outstanding on the day for the Dutchmen. The most exciting news about the Dutchmen last Saturday came from off the field as rival Eastern Regional powers Ithaca and Hamilton lost their first games of the season. This Saturday, Union travels to Middlebury where they have not won since 1971. Last week the Panthers handed Hamilton a 24-17 defeat. Kickoff is at 1:00 p.m. Ed. Note-LaFrance was taken to the hospital after the game and it was reported that he had broken his leg. The good news, however, is that it is only a sprain and he might only have to miss one game. :-s-core-by periods: Williams • 3 1 1-10 Union 7 7 o 7-21 ~.- T. Walker, 1, run [Sticka. kick) ,.. - Good~peed, 24, field goal U- McE.,oy. 3. PiiSS from Gargiulo !S1ack.a. kickl U - Sri gh1. 5, pass from Gargiulo (Sticka, kiCk) W- Jeffrey. 15, pass from Morris (Goodspe ed. kick l First down• Rushes yards Passing yards Passes Returns yards Punts average Fumbles lost Penalties yards STATISTICS Williams 11 31-611 sa 10.35-2 llS 8-40.5 1 A-SO Union .20 53-207 132 12·31-{) 90 7·28.2 3 10.9S DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK Thursday, 10/31 Soccer at Vassar Volleyball vs. Russell Sage, Oneonta Saturday, 11/2 Football at Middlebury Soccer vs. St. Lawrence Men's Cross Country NY States at Rochester Volleyball at Skidmore Tourney Hockey vs. Babson Monday, 11/4 Soccer vs. North Adams Tuesday, 11/5 Men's Cross Country I C4A meet at NY Tech GARNET SCOREBOARD FOOTBALL (7·0) Union 21 MEN'S SOCCER (9·1-1) Union 0 Union 3 WOMEN'S SOCCER (5·8) Skidmore3 Union 4 Albany St. 3 FIELD HOCKEY (5·1) Oneonta Union Union 4 Union 2 WOMEN'S TENNIS (4·8) Union 5 Middlebury 6 Hartwick 6 2:30 7:00 1 :00 2:00 7:30 2:00 Williams 10 Rochester 0 Colgate 2 Union 1 Green Mountain 2 Union 1 COT) 4 3 Brockport St. 0 Hamilton 1 (3 OTl Sienna 4 Union 3 Union 3 Women Rooters Split Two .c lJ 0 :,! \tl I.. Ol c >- .0 0 .,_ 0 .c: a. >- .0 0 - 0 .c Q. Sophomore Jim LaFrance goes up for reception against Williams in first quarter before injuring leg. ·, ,,_, Senior Pete Cohan kicks the ball off after George McCuoy's 3 yd. to reception from Mike Gargiulo. By WOMEN'S SOCCER TEAM It's been a difficult season for the lady hooters. Though there have been a few too many disappointing outcomes the squad has a great deal of talent and depth that have helped keep them in close running with their contenders. Last week the Dutchwomen split with Skid- more and Green Mountain to bring their record to 5-8. Against Skidmore Union was once again forced to shift their positioning to compensate for severat injuries. One noteworthy switch occurred in · the backfield due to netminder Sarah Shaw's blow received in the Plattsburgh game. Sophomore fullback Colleen Dundon stepped into the cage for her first full game at that position. Union played aggressive both on offensive and defense but co11ld not get on the scoreboard until the second half when Erin Sheehan scored on a direct kick that the Skid- more goalie had no chance of stopping. Unfortunately Skidmore managed to put three goals by the Union defense to end the game with a 3-1loss for Union. Last Thursday in the midst of rain and cold the lady hooters played on Garis. field and basically knocked the socks off a previously undefeated Green Mountain squad. The Dut- chwomen were overdue for a victory and took· the Vennont based team by surprise. Union set the pace of the game early in the contest as Mary Soley put the first goal in with only two and a half minutes elapsed. Just one minute later Lynn Chabot scored another to put Union on top 2-0. Colleen Dundon started in cage with Sarah Shaw returning late in the half. The two combined efforts to hold Green Mountain scoreless for the half. Green Mountain got back into the game by scoring their first goal early in the next period. However, Union's momentum didn't fold, and Lisa Rathburn placed a direct kick 'Jl'L'@:'i::~. -.-~_u ~~~~'!%\~~~~- ... ..._ -:.; \\\~·w'<·~~·; _,_~,,,.- .-'~ ' _, «.'it;. . • : ·). -· * ... .;,-· into the top left corner of the net just out of reach of the Green Mountain keeper. The scoreboard read 3-1. Beth Wright knocked in a shot in a crowded penalty area to in- crease Union's lead by three. Green Mountain popped in a second goal at 8:19 but to no avail, as the final score of 4-2 brought them their first defeat of the season. The Union squad worked well as a unit which enabled them to pull off this big win. The Dutchwomen conclude their season today against Siena at 2:30 on Garis Field. Lisa Rathburn in action vs. Albany State. Union lost a hard fought game3-1 in overtime. , . - C) - I.. (1) .0 ::::> I.. ~ \0 > ro Cl >- .0 0 .... 0 .c: a. ( It' Ur SOl thl Vi A< dr Ui A A G hi fu gi \\ a t< t tl e r t~ c s ( ~

