.c: u 0 ~ \0 'i: Ol c:: >- .c .E 0 .c:: a. - • • CXV No.7 ,_ (I> .c ;:! ,_ (!) ~ > 10 0 >- .c 0 0 .c a. Schenecta-dy, New York Bulk Rate U.s. Postage :faid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 November 7, 1985 Panel Considers Geneva Question By CRAIG RIDEOUT Contributor \What should the U.S. at- tempt to a'.:complish in Geneva?\ A panel of four Union College professors addressed this question Wednesday, October 30 in Fox Lounge. P\rofessors Richard Shanebrook, Charles Gati, William Martin, and Clifford Brown were asked to consider this question for the Phi Beta Kappa series of talks. The format of the talk allowed each Professor to take ten minutes to eJq>lain his views on what the U ;s. should try to · I~ beer in the Skellar a thing Of the past? __ accomplish in -Geneva. After- wards, another twenty minutes would be .spent for the panelists to debate each other's views. Finally, there was to be time at the end for student questions. The dialogue of the talk was recorded for later broadcasting on WRUC. the same time, it would make that missile force vulnerable to destruction from fewer enemy warheads. Brown then con- tinued to describe what choices the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. could contemplate in the Grand Design of things in the nuclear age. They had three choices according to Professor Brown: l)Limit the number of missiles maintained 2) Build more missiles until superiority is achieved, or 3) Defend existing missiles with complex Anti· Ballistic Missile systems. Brown went on to say that \the United States should make certain that our command centers vrere secure from -at- tack to prevent a 'nervous fingerf situation.\ His final position supported negotiation at Geneva to reduce the number of warheads \on missiles. Open For.um Held ... Alcohol Issues Addressed The first speaker, Professor Clifford Brown .of the Political Science department, began his ten minutes with a brief discussion of the history of arms control. He explained the ramifications · of Multiple Warhead (MIRV) missiles and argued that the MIRV-ing of one side's missiles would un- balance the whole system. It would reduce the second strike capabilities of the opponent and thereby lead him to .consider a preemptive first strike. The second speaker was Professor William Martin of the Chemistry Department. He believes that our purpose at Geneva is not so much to negotiate any arms reductions as it is to delay until further technological breakthroughs are made. He emphasized that verification of new weapons is difficult and that this would hamper an agreement. By JAN BARAN News Editor \The drinking age is going up. It's going to have a big effect on Union's social life. It will.liniit social events as we now know them,\ stated Steve Moss, '87, Vice · President of Administration and Fimmce. To ~ddress the change in the drinkmg age and its effects on Union's social life, the Student Affairs Council formed . the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee. This committee held its only all-campus open forum, a chanceJor students to give their fuput on the issue on Wednesday, October 30. The open forum was held to allow the committee members to present their current ideas to the student body and then give them a chance to respond. Only eleven students, however, represented. the student body at the open forum. . To begin the open forum, the committee presented a brief synopsis of what it had discussed to that point. Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, first stated the change in the law: \You may not purchase alcohol unless you are twenty- one. You may not misrepresent your age.\ Mammola em- phasized that the law also prohibits the supplying of alcohol to anyone under age twenty-one. The committee noted that \alcohol is an important part of the collegiate scene:,; Therefore, Dean Mammola mentioned that the comniittee is \not starting out with the idea that it has to rid the w:orld of alcohol.\ At the same time, there bas been a huge increase in aicohol-related litigation. \Many insurance carriers are simply refusing to provid~ liability to colleges,\ Mam.mola stated. Hence, when St. Lawrence University was refused by its · insurance renewed on July 1, 1985, the liability insurance premium increased by 42 percent although the carrier decreased its coverage by one-third. Although Union's insurance rates have increased tremendously, the Union campus at this point will not go \dry according to Dean Mammola. \We (the com· mittee) spent about thirty seconds deciding that we are not going to have a dry campus. Our policy, however, does have to be consistent with the law, enable us to enjoy ourselves, and allow those who are of age to use alcoholic beverages.\ With these goals in mind, the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee announced that its recommendations would probably have these elements: 1) ''Open parties where alcohol is served are probably forever gone on campus;\ 2) party attendance must be limited in number; 3) fraternity events will be by invitation only; 4) the College will have to be notified in advance of the party; 5) bartenders must refrain from using alcohol at the event; 6) non-alcoholic beverages must be available and equally ace cessiblej 7) the committee strongly recommends that food beapartoftheevent; and8) the event should be consistent with the confines of the party's location. Mammola reiterated that none of these suggestions is \set in stone.\ So far, it is just a set of guidelines for the c()nuni,ttee to follow. The committee's final recommendations will be completed within the next two weeks. They will then be sub- mitted to the Student Affairs Council, the Student Forum, President Morris, BJ.id finally to the Board of Trustees. The ultimate decision does rest With the Board of Trustees. The key issue, according to Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, in making this drinking age policy is the distinction between private and public parties, with public parties being defined as parties where any member of campus Continued on page 2 Having more than one warhead on a missile ensures that it would take fewer missiles to destroy an op. ponent's missile force, and, at Brown felt that both sides should reduce the number of MIRV-ed missiles they possessed, and that a ·fun- damental decrease in tensions is necessary: On President Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative (Star Wars) he said we did not have the energy required to power the system Continued on page 4. Monday night football may replace large all-campus activities. Students React to Alcohol Proposal -p.3- Check Out W2UC -p. 7-,

..c: u 0 ~ ~ ..... Cl c: >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: 0. e CXV No.7 l- ev .n ::l 1- 0 \'0 > ro Cl >- .0 0 ...... 0 .J:: 0. Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 November 7, 1985 Panel Considers Geneva Question By CRAIG RIDEOUT Contributor \What should the U.S. at- tempt to ?. .:complish in Geneva?'' A panel of four Union College professors addressed this question Wednesday, October 30 in Fox Lounge. Professors Richard Shanebrook, Charles Gati, William Martin, and Clifford Brown were asked to consider this question for the Phi Beta Kappa series of talks. Is beer in the Skellara thing of the past? The format of the talk allowed each Professor to take ten minutes to explain his views on what the U.S. should try to accomplish in Geneva. After- wards, another twenty minutes would be spent for the panelists to debate each other's views. Finally, there was to be time at the end for student questions. The dialogue of the talk was recorded for later broadcasting on WRUC. the same time, it would make that missile force vulnerable to destruction from fewer enemy warheads. Brown then con- tinued to describe what choices the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. could contemplate in the Grand Design of things in the nuclear age. They had three choices according to Professor Brown: 1 >Limit the number of missiles maintained 2) Build more missiles until superiority is achieved, or 3) Defend existing missiles with complex Anti- Ballistic Missile systems . Brown went on to say that \the United States should make certain that our command centers ·were se~:un:: from at- tack to prevent a 'nervous finger' situation.\ His final position supported negotiation at Geneva to reduce the number of warheads· on missiles. Open Forum Held ... Alcohol Issues Addressed The first speaker, Professor Clifford Brown of the Political Science department, began his ten minutes with a brief discussion of the history of arms control. He explained the ramifications of Multiple Wftrhead (MIRV) missiles and argued that the MIRV-ing of one side's missiles would un- balance the whole system. It would reduce the second strike capabilities of the opponent and thereby lead him to consider a preemptive first strike. The second speaker was Professor William Martin of the Chemistry Department. He believes that our purpose at Geneva is not so much to negotiate any arms reductions as it is to delay until further technological breakthroughs are made. He emphasized that verification of new weapons is difficult and that this would hamper an agreement. By JAN BARAN News Editor \The drinking age is going up. It's going to have a big effect on Union's social life. It will limit social events as we now know them,\ stated Steve Moss, '87, Vice President of Administration and Finance. To ~ddress the change in the drinking age and its effects on Union's social life, the Student Affairs Council formed the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee. This committee held its only all-campus open forum, a chance.for students to give their input on the issue on Wednesday, October 30. The open forum was held to allow the conunittee members to present their current ideas to the student body and then give them a chance to respond. Only eleven students, however, represented the student body at the open forwn. To begin the open forwn, the conunittee presented a brief synopsis of what it had discussed to that point. Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, first stated the change in the law: \You may not purchase alcohol unless you are twenty- one. You may not misrepresent your age.\ Mammola em- phasized that the la,_v also prohibits the supplymg of alcohol to anyone under age twenty-one. The conunittee noted that \alcohol is an important part of the collegiate scene.\ Therefore, Dean Mammola mentioned that the committee is \not starting out with the idea that it has to rid the world of alcohol.\ At the same time, there has been a huge increase in alcohol~related litigation. \Many insurance carriers are simply refusing to provide liability to colleges,'' Mammola stated. Hence, when St. Lawrence University was refused by its insurance renewed on July 1, 1985, the liability insurance premium increased by 42 percent although the carrier decreased its coverage by one-third. Although Union's insurance rates have increased tremendously, the Union campus at this point will not go \dry according to Dean Mammola. \We (the com- mittee) spent about thirty seconds deciding that we are not going to have a dry campus. Our policy, however, does have to be consistent with the law, enable us to enjoy ourselves, and allow those who are of age to use alcoholic beverages.\ With these goals in mind, the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee announced that its recommendations would probably have these elements: 1) \Open parties where alcohol is served are probably forever gone on campus;\ 2) party attendance must be limited in number; 3) fraternity events will be by invitation only; 4) the College will have to be notified in advance of the party; 5) bartenders must refrain from using alcohol at the event; 6) non-alcoholic beverages must be available and equally ac- cessible; 7) the committee strongly recommends that food be a part of the event; and 8) the event should be consistent with the confines of the party's location. Mammola reiterated that none of these suggestions is \set in stone.\ So far, it is just a set of guidelines for the committee to follow. The committee's final recommendations will be completed within the next two weeks. They will then be sub- mitted to the Student Affairs Council, the Student Forum, President Morris, and finally to the Board of Trustees. The ultimate decision does rest with the Board of Trustees. The key issue, according to Assistant Dean of Students, Robert Massa, in making this drinking age policy is the distinction between private and public parties, with public parties being defined as parties where any member of campus Continued on page 2 Having more than one warhead on a missile ensures that it would take fewer missiles to destroy an op- ponent's missile force, and, at Brown felt that both sides should reduce the number of MIRV-ed missiles they possessed, a11d that a fun- damental decrease in tensions is necessary. On President Reagan's Strategic Defense Initiative (Star Wars) he said we did not have the energy required to power the system Continued on page 4 ':\ '- \-~ u - > -~v 0 ,.. ~ ~ - :: Monday night football may replace large all·campus activities. Students React to Alcohol Proposal -p.3- Check Out W2UC -p.7-

/ .. l'age 2 CONCORDIENSJS, November 7, 1985 > f1J 0 ;... !2 0 .... 0 .r::. 0.. '\' Maybe room parties aren't so bad ... Drinking Age to -Rise • • • Campus Life Changes! Continued from p. 1 can attend or where there is a aspect of campus social life. To large attendance. According to solve this probfem, Vernich Massa, \One cannot simply suggested the idea of a \21 serve alcohol at a public event.\ club,\ whereby only students On the other hand, private aged twenty-one and over would parties will be strictly limited to enter. The \21\ club\ could those who receive invitations, eliminate dislocation by and the total number of guests providing those of-age drinkers will be kept small. with an alternative to in~ The committee has not yet vitation-only fraternity parties. determined the exact figure to The open forum then con- distingu~sh between a public sidered private parties within and a pnvate party. At the open the dormitories.· Mickey foru~. the committee em- Bradley, '87, an RA in Fox, phas1zed that there must be wondered if the RA' s would this new committee when he stated, \We intend for the Social Alternatives Committee to recommend all campus activities that are non·alcohol related. It will probably con- sider investing more to existing activities like Cabaret and Coffeehous.e.,_ out we're looking for new types of events that might become traditions-big ones like Fitzhugh Ludlow Day or smaller weekly things like plays on campus.\ Schaffer Library Shelves Improved By SUZANNE LACHELIER Contributor As soon as the last people left - the graduation ceremony this past spring, work began on the lower level of the Schaffer Library. The project, eomplete reorganization of the shelving system and recarpeting of the basement, was to be completed by September 6, 1985, the day before orientation. Five thousand cartons were packed with periodicals and removed from the library for the swnrner. The purpose of the project was to replace the old shelves with mobile compact shelving. This compact shelving system is advantageous because it multiplies the capacity for book storage by one and a half times. · . Mobile compact shelving mvol:ves the placement of .steel rails on the floor, on which huge moveable shelves are positioned~ By r-otating a wheel~ like handle on the side, the shelv~s can be separated, giving access to the desired information. A pin must be placed in the handle to lock the shelves. One of the main student conce].'ns, itseems,is that others might neglect to lock the shelves, which could result in injury to students standing between them. The librarians caution students to lock the handles before entering bet- ween the shelves. Mobile compact shelving was a much needed addition to the library. The library estimated that as of July 1985, periodical stacks would have been filled to capacity. Ms. Anne Seemann, head of Schaffer Library, ex- pects the shelves will aUow for at least another five years of growth. No study space was lost, contrary to some students' concern. The project was carried out by the Drurmnex Company. Workers of this Canadian-based firm worked days, nights and weekends to complete the job on time. As a result, the in- stallation of mobile compact shelving was the only summer project on campus finished on time. Credit for the rapid completion of .the project should also be given to Jack Hill and campus maintenance, w:ho were very helpful throughout this summer. The improvement of our library facilities would not have been possible without the generous funding of the S.chaffer FoWldation. a~ve-age d_rinkers at these have to become \policemen.\ p~lvate parties. As f!ofessor PierceFitzgerald,Assistant Sex and· Power Co.ns·l.de·re·d Kunmo Rosenthal, Chatrman of Director of Security and a the Student Affairs Council, member of the committee stated, \If you're going to serve responded first. He stated that Continued from page 3 alcohol, you have to make sure the RA doesn't have to become that a substantial number of a \cop.\ But \if Security comes people there can consume across a clear violation of the alcohol or else. not serve it.\ policy that's set forth, we .will After stating the committee's havetotakethe steps necessary consensus, Mammola then ... We are going to monitor addressed some of .. the other what should and should not be Union. llislifritioris reUfte(f'\ to happening in the dorms.\ He alcohol. One event which will also mentioned that Security- ch~nge si~nifica~tly is Camp Schenectady Police will trace Un10n. This sprmg-term, all- back to see where an underaged campus party on West Beach drinker was served-whether in will be missing one element- a private room party or at a the beer truck. According to fraternity-if an incident oc- Mammola, there \won't be any curs. alcohol at Camp Union.\ Pro f e s so r R o s e nth a 1 ~ t~e d~ta~s about another elaborated on this point. He Umon mst1tut1on, the Skellar, stated \If someone does have not yet been discussed. provid~ an underaged drinker Dean Mammola emphasized, with alcohol, you must feel how~ver that \the Skellar will confident that the drinking is contmue ~o be open. Wheth~r responsible.\ The consequences alcohol will ~ se;,ved or not IS of not being responsible, an~ther questlO~. ~he ~kellar, allowing an underaged drinker unlike a fraternity, 1s a licensed to start screaming on West establis,~en~ ~~therefore the Beach, for example, are clear, College s habihty 1s far greater. according to Rosenthal. First, The committee, at this point, is still examining the ad- vantage!:! and disadvantages of allowing the Skellar to serve above-age drinkers. Keeping the Skellar open as a drinking establishment could prevent students from drinking and driving, and it would also provide students with a choice. At the same time, however, the Skellar is \the point of greatest risk in terms of the College.\ Mammola noted that \the mere fact of a lawsuit could be enough to jeopardize all liability insurance.\ other campuses which have lost liability insurance were only covered if they went dry. President of the Inter- fraternity Council, Pat Vernich, · raised the concern that a number of twenty-one year-old drinkers would be dislocated by this proposed policy because not all of-age drinkers would be invited to fraternity parties and would be excluded from one whoever provided the alcohol is personally liable for serving an underaged drinker. Second, if that drinker should cause a \major incident,\ then the policy ''may change and the campus will have to go dry.\ As stated previously, these suggestions made by the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee are not \set in concrete.\ Changes will con- tinue to be made up until the committee sends its final recommendations to the Student Forum. It is clear though that Union as we now know it will definitely change. To facilitate the transition, a new committee, the Social Alternatives Committee, is now being created to explore new options for non-alcohol related, campus-wide activities. This connnittee is forming now with applications available in Mrs. Marra's office on third floor, Old Chapel. The deadline is Nov. 15 for applications. Moss explained the purpose of Are Sterotypes Really True? Can We Overcome Preiudice? -lecture by- Professor William Helmrech, Woodrow Wilson and White House Fellow, Chairman of Sociology Dept., City College at City University will speak in 55016 Thursday November 14 8:00p.m. Sponsored by Union College Department of Psychology and Sociolc;>gy and. the )~wish Sfudent. Union of_llnion College In this same way, it is hard for people to be assertive about sex. From childhood, we have been socialized that we are not to talk about sex. We come up with euphemisms in order not to address · the issue directly. Think of aU the terms you could come up with to refer to a penis. As in the elevator example, we find it hard to ask for what we want in sex for fear of losing the partner. Parrot set up a ·situation in which she pretended to ask a member of the audience for a date. She introduced herself and mentioned that she wanted ''only petting above the waist on the first five dates.\ She soWlded, as she suggested afterwards, like she was from Mars. No one says that kind of thing to a date. \We can be assertive about what to eat and where to go to the movies'' she said, \but we can't be assertive about what we want sexually.\ One of the problems in our sexual communication is that we don't always say what we mean. When our verbal messages are consistent with our non-verbal ones, others ·are likely to believe our verbal ones. But, if they are in- consistent, others are likely to believe our non-verbal messages. A good example of this is when a friend is moping around and you ask what is wrong. If she says \notl1fug chances are that you would believe her physical actions rather than her verbal message. Another problem is that couples do not usually talk about sex before the situation occurs. \When you get sex:ually excited, your bloo.d goes to your genitals (which means it's not in your brain) and you can't make good decisions,\ observes Parrot. A third problem is that men and women sometimes have differing attitudes toward sex. \Sex is a contact sport except that we play by different rules,\ says Parrot. Women generally want more intimacy than men do. Finally, if you are undecided about sex, the media tells you that all you need to do is find a good man and he will make eferything right. Recall Luke and Laura from TV's \General Hospital.\ He raped her and she liked it so much she went back for more. Parrot's advice to the audience to try to avoid these problems was to \Say what you're thinking, not what other people would say:'·~ Be yourself, in other words, and let your partner know what you feel. The general model of assertive behavior is \When you do x, I feel y.\ Try using this model to let your partner know what is on your mind. As an extension of this subject of a lack of sexual com- mWlication, Parrot also ad- dressed another issue which is popping up more and more in are \Women responsible for having incredibly poor judgement, but they are not ever responsible for being raped.'' discussions on campuses across the country-acquaintance rape. She asked the audience if women ever invited rape. This provoked a lot of discussion among the group with mostly males taking the stand that women could invite rape and women arguing that they could not. Parrot's own view on this is that \Women are responsible for having incredibly poor judgement, but they are not ever responsible for being raped. Victims are not responsible for crimes that are corrupitted upon them.'' Parrot · reported that alcohol is involved in more than one-half of all rape situations and especially in acquaintance rape. There is a pattern that· an acquaintance rape usually follows: 1) The woman's per- sonal space is violated. 2) She doesn't do anything about it. 3) Couple ends up in an isolated area and the rape occurs. A fraternity party presents an opportunity for these elements to come together. For example: 1) Loud music forces people to stand very close together to talk. 2) The woman does not ask the man for more personal space because everyone is packed in like_ sardines and they need to stand close to hear each other. 3) She asks if he wants to go outside because she wants more space. He thinks · she wants to be alone with him ... Of course, not all of these situations end up in rape, but the potential is there. Finally, Parrot spoke about what to do if a friend is raped. The. most important thing is to be supportive. \Help her validate the fact that it was not her fault.\ The lecture ended up running two-and•a-half hours, but Parrot was able to keep the energy level in the room high throughout the evening. Her comments were indeed thought- provoking. Those in attendance left with lots of. new things to think about. Parrot concluded by saying that \One of my hopes is that you'll all go out of here and educate others.\ Notice To All Students Planning a Withdrawal or Leave of Absence - Winter Term 1986 Students planning to make a Leave of Absence or With- 1. drawal for the upcoming Winter Term must notify the Office of the Dean of Students in person and complete the With- drawal/Leave of Absence form by the l.ast day of the current Fall Term, November 27. Non-preregistration or non· payment of Winter Term bills will not constitute notice of Withdrawal or Leave ()f Absence. If you are unsure of your plans, you ma.y still want to come in and make preliminary arrangements. Withdrawal after the payment due date of Winter Term bills (December 2) will result in a charge of 25% of the Winter 'Term tuition, full term rent (if living in campus housing)•, and full student activity fee. · · Office of Dean of Students Whitaker Hous~ 1st Floor ' ... pl A c \ b fi p f~ li :t ll v ( ~ f 1 'j 1 i

CONCORDIENSTS, Nove111ber·7, 1985 Page3 ... Students' Opinions . Noted By JAN BARAN and student workers aren't perfect, Klein, Zeta Beta Tau Social MAUREEN CO~EMAN and it could be possible to buy Chairman, stated his personal News Editors beer for others, but it happens opinion, \I understand their The students' reaction to the proposals annoUnced by the Alcohol Use-Student Life Committee and the open forum Wednesday, October 30,. has been varied. Many students asked, \What open .forum?\ while others who knew about it but could not attend questioned, \What happened?'' Students' reactions to the drinking age proposals generally concern fcmr major aspects of student life at Union: the dormitories, the Rath$kellar,. fraternity parties, and overall social life. rarely, and that could happen position With liability and the anywhere. I think they should law, but. the campus is . so leave things at the Skellar the acohol-orlented. They're gomg way they are now. It's working to have to provide alternate now, Not too many freshmen social activities.\ Mrs. Marra, come in, and there's not a real Director of Student Activities, problem with underaged feels that \There are other drinking at all.\ alternatives to alcohol.\ Hence, A senior was angry that the a new committee is being committee was considering an formed to look into non~alcohol .alcohoHess Skellar as part of its related activities. recommendation. As she stated, This committee, the Social \Not allowing alcohol to be Alternatives Committee, which served on campus just penalizes is being· formed now, has ap- the people who are of age. And plications available in Mrs. there are those of us who have Marra's office, third floor, Old reached the exalted age of Chapel. It will receive input twenty-one.'' from the Concert and Social One major $tudent concern .is Committees as well as Cabaret that without an establishment and Coffeehouse. Tod Dimmick, '86 Student Forum represen- \Th. B d f tative to. the COC, sees this . . e . oar 0 committee as contributing T . ·ru· stees 1\s substantially to the future of · · · . · • • • Union's social life. He stated ultimately Jiab}e . \Empha.sis is place on i ' ' r ... lj : .. ! ' !...... ' . ~~ ... Dr. Andrea Parrot discussed ''Sexual Communication and Power\ in her lecture Monday. Sex and Power ... ... ~ :::> ... (.!) (I) > I1J c >- ..0 0 - 0 .c c. Several students seemed worried th,at dorms would contain the only available social activitie~ on campus. As one freshman stated; \The social life at Union will probably be ·just .smaller parties and floor part;ies.\ One Resident Advisor in West seemed concerned about the effects a ·room- centered social life would have on the donns. The RA stated, ''I can understand that the college is legally responsible, but the dorms are going to .get destroyed. All underaged people will get liquor from upperclassmen; drink in their rooms, and trash the dorms.\ f • •d t the Social Alternatives Or any WCI .. en S Committee, because this is the resulting from one committee with total ll ··q_ u..· or s·erv-ed· ·m·· th.e student control that will have a say in what we can do next Dr. Parrot Speaks Skellar. '; tew:;~~ Will campus life be like By LINDA RAFFAELE ·Editor-in-Chief elevator in the Science and Engineering Building. You are on the first floor, headed for the third, when a person with a lit cigarette hops on the elevator with you. What do you do? Some freshmen are not worried about the drinking age change, however. One fresll- man, David Ft:ieze, saw another alternative, \I guess we'll just have to go off-campus more.\ A second freshman views phony identification cards as the answer, \I don't really care about the drinking age. I have enough fake ID's to last me into the next century.\ Ironically, a retailer of phony ID's was apprehended by the police last friday night for selling stolen identification-cards on campus. The second major source of concern for Union students, particularly upperclassmen, is the Rathskellar tradition. At . · this point, the Alcohol Use- Student Life Committee has not submitted. its final proposal on whether alcohol will be served in the Skellar. Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, however, emphasized at the open forum that the Skellar would definitely remain open. Legal questions . must be· ·considered though, since the Board of Trustees, which holds the Skellar's liquor license 1 is ultimately liable for any incidents resulting from liquor served in the Skellar. One Skellar worker, Bob Thomson, '87, had a lot to say about this issue. As he stated, \It's my personal opinion, not· speaking for the Skellar, but I think we are as strict as any extablishrtlent. We card at the door, and the people behind the · bar check for ~amps which serves alcohol to those of age on campus, legal-aged students will drive off-campus to find alcohol. As one un- derClassman stated, \People will get in their cars,. get drunk, and get killed.\ Erik Weinar, '87, stated, ''The College has the responsibility not to drive people off campus.\ A third source of major student concern is the fraternity party. As the committee proposal now stands, the all- campus, open fraternity party is a thing of the p~. Fr~ternity parties will probably become limited events subiect to an invitation system. One Rich- mond freshman has a suggestion: \I wish they could find a legitimate system of proofing at parties-maybe a bar or glass bottles instead of open kegs-so that we can still go to parties even if we can't drink.\ Because fraternity parties will probably be closed'to those who don't receive invitations, many underaged students and even those who are twenty-one are worried about the effect the drinking age change Will have on Union's social life.- As one freshman girl griped, \My friends and I usually just go to fraternity parties or maybe off campus. Now, we'll· have to start having private parties in · rooms. That's terrible. Not that drinking is essential, but we can't even go to a party to see other friends.\ , Many people on campus call on the College to suggest alternatives. Sophomore Steve IFC presents GREEK WEEKEND \GOOD-BYE TO 19'' November 15th an.d -16th· . if the Skellar is closed to alcohol use and fraternity parties are limited? One senior woman summed up the situation from her point of view, ''The school is already clique-y enough. How are we supposed to socialize with a broad group of people? Myfriends.who are of age won't go to the Skellar if it doesn't serve beer. And how many people can you invite to a room party?\ Sophomore Ira Heffan, co- chairman of the Social Com- mittee, stated, \Next term and afterward, socializing is going to have to be on a more personal level than on a campus-wide level. . . Practically, frater-. nities and dorms will have to take their own initiative for social life and have smaller, more discreet activities.\ Thus, with inevit~ble changes im- pending, students are beginning to recognize the . effects .a change in drinking age can have on a college campus. Accor- dingly, students have voiced concerns and are beginning to explore social alternatives for Union. Andrea Parrot, professor of Human Sexuality at Cornell University, gave a lecture on Sexual Communication and Power last Monday night. The evening was quite successful. A turnout of about 90 students was expected; the actual number attending ended up closer to 150. The lecture was the first in a year-long series of talks an_d discussions on Sex, Intimacy, and Friendship being sponsored by the Office of Student Affairs. Parrot opened up the evening by mentioning that she had started her graduate career right here at Union. When she began teaching at Cornell, she took part in the Faculty Residence Program and lived in the dorms with students for two years. This provided her with an excellent way to understand the relations between men and women at Cornell. She has found through her work in the fiel~. that men and women find it \hard to discuss sexuality in honest ways.\ She believes that this inability to be open about sex stems from a general lack of assertiveness. Some responses from the audience included: 1) asking the person to put the cigarette out, 2) preaching about cancer, and 3) ignoring the situation. Parrot asked each of us to examine our own response to the situation. Was it passive? Agressive'? Assertive? Parrot believes that if your original response was assertive (asking the person to put his-her cigarette out), it might change to. something more ·passive if this person were someone who had something to offer you. She believes, \Your give up power when you think you stand something to lose.\ Imagine, for example, if the person in the elevator was President Morris and he was going to write you a recommendation for graduate school. Could you still be assertive? How about if this person were a professor with whom you were currently taking a class? Or a potential sexual partner? You would still be within your rights (as defined by the law) by asking the person to put out his-her cigarette in a nonmventilated area, but chances are that you would have a harder time doing Concordiensis Elections November 12 To examine this point, she set up a hypothetical situation: To begin, assume the mindset of a noll-smoker who is greatly bothered by smoking. Next, imagine that you are in -an it. Continu~d on page 2 ~ ~ ~ § § §· ~ § § l § t § ~~~~~~~~~~1 Things are going to he different next term . . . ~ IS THE PARTY OVER?? Not if YOU choose to GET INVOLVED The Committee on Committees is forming The Social Alternative committee to investigate and recommend new social activities at Union. Applications are now available in the Student Activities Office. The deadline for the submission of applications is November 15. § § ~ § ~ ~ For more information, contact mrs. Marra ~ DON'T GIVE UP! ~-~~~~J

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, November 7,1985 Simons Refutes Media Problems By ANDREA BUGBEE Contributor Last Wednesday's Minerva Hour presentation was on mass media. The speech, by Howard Simons of Union's class of 1951, addressed a number of popular complaints against con- temporary jo~alism. Simons is a former managing editor of The Washington Post. He currently acts as the curator of Harvard University's Neiman Foundation and owns a small weekly newspaper with his wife. Simons first addressed the cum plaint that news is often not accurate. This the speaker justified by pointing out that newspapers are written by humans, and, unfortunately, humans are often not entirely accurate. A reporter who has had a sleepless night or a confrontation with a spouse may be less alert on the job the following day. Also, Simons added, sources are easily manipulated in an effort to present a certain illusion around a fact. Press conferences may become hazy under a veil of vague- rhetoric and optimistic garble. What journalist could present the truth if he is not told the truth? Secondly, Simons refutes the accusation that newspapers seem to relish in the presen- tation of bad news. Asserting a ·belief that newspapers should accent the problems of a nation so that they may be improved, the lecturer remarked, \I believe that newspapers were put on this earth to write about the 1 percent of the things that go wrong in this society, not the 99 percent of the things that go right.\ In conclusion,' Simons con- fronted the complaint that some news is considered to be an invasion of privacy. Simons replied that he does not believe that a public official should have privacy; the very precept contradicts his title. · Accor- dingly, public figures, such as actors and actresses, gain their fortune by displaying them- selves before the pubric. That they should be concerned about a private life is equally paradoxical. Simons concluded his speech by stating that, \If you think that newspapers are as bad and as negative as they seem to be, just try to appreciate the fact that it raises some of those issues so that they can be changed ... Whether it's good or bad, it's better than any other system in the world.'' ' PrOfessors Debate Geneva Continued from page 1 effectively and that Star Wars would destabilize the system. In conclusion, he expressed a need to limit the proliferation of nuclear materials to other states, and he expressed con- cern over the growth of the Nuclear Club. The next panelist, Professor Charles Gati of the Political ·Science Department, began by saying that the major issue at Geneva would be Soviet arms control, not general. arms control. This, he said, was because Soviet society is not open like American society, and the Soviet record in Inter- national affairs has not been a trustworthy one. Their record showed that they would expand if little risk of U.S. retaliation was involved. He believes that \weakness- will always prompt the Soviets to expand\ and that our task will be ''to engage. the Soviets in negotiation to moderate Soviet International bebavior and open their society.\ He does not feel that anything of importance will be accomplished at Geneva, but he is hopeful that cultural ex- changes will resume. He also feels that in the decades ahead, the Soviets will be friendlier to the West because of their · economic crisis and their need for western cash and technology. The Soviet military places a huge . burden on th~ countrY's economy and its reduction would be of mutual benefit both to the Soviets and the West. In conclusion he said that ''overall · parity must be intact.\ He feels that U.S. superiority is not necessary. The last speaker was Professor· Richard Shanebrook from the Mechanical E.ngineerlng . department. Shanebrook began with art~ illuminating quotation from a Soviet Military Training Manual. In this the Soviets emphasize surprise as a military strat~gy to strive for, and the Soviets· consider the use of nuclear weapons .as a viable surprise strategy. He then described a First Strike scenario which included the use of Anti-Satellite weapons (ASAT we~.pons'),· accurate Medium Range Theater weapons (suc_h ,as the Pershing II), MIRV-ed ICBM's (such as the MX) effective sub- killers, and lastly, a viable Anti- Ballistic Missile System (such· as Star War$). Shanebrook saicl that he did not want either the U.S. or tbe U.S.S.R. to acquire all five·. of these systems, because then a feasible fitst · strike could be initiated. A way he sees to verifiably prevent this would be a ban on testing of these systems and a limjt on nuclear detonations. He stressed that verification was important to any agreement. After Sharibrook presented his position, the panel briefly exchanged arguments over each other's statements and came to. the consensus that general meetings between the two superpowers should be more frequent. The floor was then opened to. student qpestions. When asked if . changing administrations in the U.S. make a coherent u.s. in- termitipnal policy difficult, the panel answered that the U.S. has maintained· a fairly con- sistant policy since the end of the second World War. Brown said that the basic structure U.S. Foreign policy has stayed unchanged. Another question asked was simply, \What's the point of the talks anyway?\ The panel's consensus was that both leaders want the other country to have a better idea of their own positions. Gati- added that future directions could be worked out and that confidence could be built up with a ·. reduction in tensions. Brown added; \It's a first· StEip.\ When, at the end, they were asked if things were stable, the professors seemed to concur that things are stable now, but could be destabilized in the future, ·and Brown added that he did not anticipate a U.S.- U.S.S.R. war in the foreseeable future. STARTS FRIDAY NOVEMBER 8th ATA THEATRE NEAR YOU ,, ; 1

Page4 CONCORDIENSJS, Nm•emher 7, 1985 Simons Refutes Media Problems By ANDREA BUGBEE Contributor Last Wednesday's Minerva Hour presentation was on mass media. The speech, by Howard Simons of Union's class of 1951, addressed a number of popular complaints against con- temporary journalism. Simons is a former managing editor of The Washington Post. He currently acts as the curator of Harvard University's Neiman Foundation and owns a small we<>kly newspaper with his wife. Simons first addressed the c&mplaint that news is often not :1ccurate This the speaker justified by pointing out that newspapers are written by humans, and, unfortunately, !mmans are often not entirely accurate. A reporter who has had a sleepless night or a confrontation with a spouse may be less alert on the job the following day. Also, Simons added, sources are easily manipulated in an effort to present a certain illusion around a fact. Press conferences may become hazy under a veil of vague rhetoric and optimistic garble. What journalist could present the truth if he is not told the truth? Secondly, Simons refutes the accusation that newspapers seem to relish in the presen- tation of bad news. Asserting a -belief that newspapers should accent the problems of a nation so that they may be improved, the lecturer remarked, ''I believe that newspapers were put on this earth to write about the 1 percent of the things that go wrong in this society, not the 99 percent of the things that go right.\ In conclusion, Simons con- fronted the complaint that some news is considered to be an invasion of privacy. Simons replied that he does not believe that a public official should have privacy; the very precept contradicts his title. Accor- dingly, public figures, such as actors and actresses, gain their fortune by displaying them- selves before the public. That they should be concerned about a private life is equally paradoxical. Simons concluded his speech by stating that, \If you think that newspapers are as bad and as negative as they seem to be, just try to appreciate the fact that it raises some of those issues so that they can be changed ... Whether it's good or bad, it's better than any other system in the world.'' Professors Debate Geneva Continued from page 1 effectively and that Star Wars would destabilize the system. In conclusion, he expressed a need to limit the proliferation of nuclear materials to other states, and he expressed con- cern over the growth of the Nuclear Club. The next panelist, Professor Charles Gati of the Political Science Department, began by saying that the major issue at Geneva would be Soviet arms control, not general arms control. This, he said, was because Soviet society is not open like American society, and the Soviet record in Inter- national affairs has not been a trustworthy one. Their record showed that they would expand if little risk of U.S. retaliation was involved. He believes that \weakness will always prompt the Soviets to expand\ and that our task will be \to engage the Soviets in negotiation to moderate Soviet International behavior and open their society.\ He does not feel that anything of importance will be accomplished at Geneva, but he is hopeful that cultural ex- changes will resume. He also feels that in the decades ahead, the Soviets will be friendlier to the West because of their economic crisis and their need for western cash and technology. The Soviet military places a huge burden on the country's economy and its recduction would be of mutual benefit both to the Soviets and the West. In conclusion he said that \overall parity must be iNtact.\ He feels that U.S. superiority is not necessary. The last speaker was Professor Richard Shanebrook from the Mechanical Engineering department. Shanebrook began with an'' illuminating quotation from a Soviet Military Training Manual. In this the Soviets emphasize surprise as a military strategy to strive for, and the Soviets consider the use of nuclear weapons as a viable surprise strategy. He then described a First Strike scenario which included the use of Anti-Satellite weapons ( ASAT we~ pons), accurate Medium Range Theater weapons (such as the Pershing II), MIRV-ed ICBM's (such as the MX) effective sub- killers, and lastly, a viable Anti- Ballistic Missile System (such as Star Wars). Shane brook said that he did not want either the U.S. or the U.S.S.R. to acquire all five of these systems, because then a feasible first strike could be initiated. A way he sees to verifiably prevent this would be a ban on testing of these systems and a limit on nuclear detonations. He stressed that verification was important to any agreement. After Shanbrook presented his position, the panel briefly exchanged arguments over each other's statements and came to the consensus that general meetings between the two superpowers should be more frequent. The floor was then opened to student questions. When asked if changing administrations in the U.S. make a coherent u.s. in- ternational policy difficult, the panel answered that the U.S. has maintained a fairly con- sistant policy since the end of the second World War. Brown said that the basic structure U.S. Foreign policy has stayed unchanged. Another question asked Was simply, \What's the point of the talks anyway?\ The panel's consensus was that both leaders want the other country to have a better idea of their own positions. Gati added that future directions could be worked out and that confidence could be built up with a reduction in tensions. Brown added, \It's a first step.\ When, at the end, they were asked if things were stable, the professors seemed to concur that things are stable now, but could be destabilized in the future, and Brown added that he did not anticipate a U.S.- U.S.S.R. war in the foreseeable future. STARTS FRIDAY NOVEMBER 8th ATA THEATRE NEAR YOU I f 1 .d l I

CONCORDIENS/S, November 7, /985 PageS We're Tumin' Back The Hallds ~f Tim.el *All Hit Music from the 60's & 70's* * ComplimentaiY Dinner Buffet & Open Bar.* * All.forJust $51* . Plenty of FREE Parking For Adults 19 & Over at The ALBANY HILTON . State & Lodge Streets • 462.;()611 C.A.M.E.R.A. Show, Buy, Sell, Swap N·ov. 10th 10:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Ramada Inn . Western Ave., Albany Admission $2.00 TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFEl c~~T~l?­ §TAC3~ I)~LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.-Fri. 8 a.m.-8 p.m. Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay st. • 382-5493 JOIN THE UNION RIDING CLUB Ride for Fun or lntercollegiately * Expert Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES For Union Students * Group Rates Available For Information. about riding for fun, group rates and discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS r-----------------------------, 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes from Campus : 15% OFF ALL REGULAR I Lorrai~;Marra : PRICED MERCHANDISE : in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES : WITH THIS COUPON I OfficeinOidChapel I NEW ESPRIT IS IN! . I looooo01001~:JIOOC~ 1000000 000 0001 POOCIIOM~.ooooooOOCII'oo:o-~~ ~ I I . at I I I I • C' J..i~ I. ! eo~toppe ! I I J I 1 Coupon Expir,es Nov. 14th I : 133 Canal Square 370-4288 ~ 1----------------------~-------J M ADEMOISELLE J----~ AGAZINE says ... \One of the top 17 salons in the country.\ *Inquire aoout our student . · discounts. *suNY bus stops just doors away. · *Jean Paul Coiffures is Your Island of Elegance in the Capital District - a hairsbreadth from New York and Paris. The Union College Dance Ensemble Presents: \Pieces in Progress\ Nov. 14th 7:00p.m. In the Dance Studio, Arts Building Reception following the performance \Should Social Concerns Influence Portfolio Management?\ .Panel Discussion with professors Kaminsky, Lewis and Lyng will be broadcast on WRUC, 89.7 FM Thursday, November 7th at 6:00p.m. Keep Warmforthelast Home Game with a trip to Moffett's Fine Wines and Liquor * 16 Flavors of Schnapps * Specials on Wine Coolers VanVranken Ave. {Next to Norstar Bank) Go Dutchmen! Jp . .,.. IN SERVICE . . . F..q..q.<Q><Q>~.q.~~~~tQ><Q><Q><Q><q~tQ>~<Q\><Q><.Q>tQ>~.q Welisten~Wecare-Wede.liver. ~ To: All students applying to Medical School during the summer § JEAN PAUL COIFFURE5 DEWITT CLINTON 142 STATE STREET . ALBANY, N.Y. 12207 (518) 463-6691 major credit C<Zirds accepte.q. 4 t N 'QUALI1Y . • . . t o.t 19&6. ~ we ARE Europea'n. _Trained In • From: Dr. Roth, Pre-Health Advisor i Europe and recognized throughout America. Dean Roth Will hold an important, general advising session in 1 IN S1YLE. . . order to discuss the procedures for applying to Medical School. § we ARE trendsetters- Personal & Faculty recommendations and MCATS Preparation § Innovators of new style- wi.ll also be discussed. The Biography form will be handed out for § Masters-of subtle variation. you to work on over the winter break. Anyone who cannot make § one of these meetings should contact Dean Roth's Office. ~ The dates are: ~ Tues., November 12-4:30-6:00 p.m.-BH 102 § T ~tlE 1\lflRP I VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STRISET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3251 Wednesday, November 13-4:30-6:0D-BH 108 ~ Also remember, Barbara Castle .from the Stanley Kaplan Center § will be here at 4:00p.m. on Wednesday the 13th in BH 108. ~ . •..r;>'>.q,tQ>..q.<.Q><Q•«T-<.Q\<.Q-·~<.Q>~<Qo<Q'o'-.?><.Q>~<.Q><Q>~tQ>.q,..q,.q.'4Mt.Q>.qa~

I l . l t I l 'i ; ' ~ . ; I r ·~ t .. 'I ,,_} We're Tumin~ Back The Hands of Time! *All Hit Music from the 60's & 70's* * Complimentary Dinner Buffet & Open Bar * *All for Just $51* Plenty of FREE Parking for A:dults 19 & Over at The t\LBANV HILTON State & lodge Streets • 462-6611 C.A.M.E.R.A. Show, Buy, Sell, Swap Nov. lOth 10:00 a.m.-4:00p.m. Ramada Inn Western Ave., Albany Admission $2.00 CONCORDIENSIS, Nm·ember 7, 1985 TRY OUR OUTDOOR CAFE! £~~T~l?. §TA(7~ [)~LI NY Style Deli NEW HOURS Open Mon.·Fri. 8 a.m.-a p.m . Saturday at 8 a.m. -5 p.m. 160 Jay Sf. • 382 .. 5493 JOIN THE UNION RIDING c:LUB Ride for Fun or I ntercollegiately * Expert Instruction * DISCOUNT RATES For Union Students * Group Rates Available Page 5 For Information about riding for fun, group rates and discounts: Contact: Audrey at BALLYBA Y FARMS r-----------------------------, 861-6725 Only 15 Minutes fro'm Campus 15% OFF ALL REGULAR PRICED MERCHANDISE WITH THIS COUPON NEW ESPRIT IS IN! at eSJtoppe Coupon Expires Nov. 14th 133 Canal Square 370-4288 1 or l Lorraine Marra I in STUDENTS ACTIVITIES I 1 Office in Old Chapel I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I I I I 1. I I I I I I l I I The Union College Dance Ensemble Presents: ______________________________ J \Pieces in Progress\ Nov. 14th 7:00p.m. M ADEMOISELLE AGAZINE says ... \One of the top 17 salons in the country.\ *lnqu ire about our student discounts. *suNY bus stops just doors away. *Jean Paul Coiffures <:. is Your Island of Elegance in the Capita I District - a hairsbreadth from New York and Paris. Jp uEAN PAUL COIFFURE0 DEWITI CLINTON 142 STATE STREET ALBANY, N.Y. 12207 (518) 463-6691 mo)or cred1t cords acceptEld •IN SERVICE ... We listen- We care- We deliver. 4 IN 'QUALI1Y ... We ARE European- Trained in Europe and recognized throughout America. ~IN SlYLE ... We ARE trendsetters - Innovators of new style- Masters of subtle variation. I VINTAGE CLOTHING In the Dance Studio, Arts Building Reception following the performance \Should Social Concerns Influence Portfolio Management?'' Panel Discussion with professors Kaminsky, Lewis and L yng wi II be broadcast on WRUC, 89.7 FM Thursday, November 7th at 6:00p.m. Keep Warm for the last Home Game with a trip to Moffett's Fine Wines and Liquor * 16 Flavors of Schnapps * Specials on Wine Coolers VanVranken Ave. (Next to Norstar Bank) Go Dutchmt!Jl! r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 § To: All students applying to Medical School during the summer i. § of 1986. t From: Dr. Roth, Pre-Health Advisor § Dean Roth will hold an important, general advising session in ~ order to discuss the procedures for applying to Medical School. § Personal & Faculty recommendations and MCA TS Preparation § will also be discussed. The Biography form will be handed out for § you to work on over the winter break. Anyone who cannot make ~ one of these meetings should contact Dean Roth's Office. § The dates are: Tues., November 12-4:30~6:00 p.m.-BH 102 Wednesday, November 13-4:30-6:00-BH 108 § § § § ~ § 179 JAY STREET ~ Also remember, Barbara Castle from the Stanley Kaplan Center ~ SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK will be here at 4:00p.m. on Wednesday the 13th in BH 108. ~ (518) 370·3251 y .._ ________________ ..... ~·.<,no.Q>~·.<,no.Q'><.Q·~o.Q'><//'·<//'·<Q><Q>~~q.~o.Q>t..Q'><Qo!Q>rQ>IQ>~~~~~~

.. ... Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 FEATURES ~~ A OxfamfJ menca1 A Pledge Of Allegiance By ELLEN RUFFING Contributor Thursday, November 14, is Oxfam Day. On this day in· dividuals and groups throughout America will fast and donate the money they would have spent for their meals to Oxfam America. Oxfam America is an in· ternational agency which .funds self-help development projects and disaster relief in poor countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America. Oxfam America, a non-sectarian, non· profit agency,· also educates Americans about the causes and effects of . povertY ,c~qd hunger. In making grants, Oxfam America selects projects which will increase the self-reliance or social and economic equity of low income groups, with special attention to women and disadvantaged minorities. The necessity for this fast is clear when one considers some unsettling facts about world hunger. Fifteen million children die each year from hunger or hunger-related causes. This is more than forty thousand children per day worldwide! One hundred million children in the world are malnourished. This is one in five of the world's children. Thirty-six of the wQrld's 40 poorest countries export food to North America. Africa, where more than half the population suffers from chronic protein deficiencies, exports protein foods to Europe. It is the goal of Oxfam America to help these people. And, with your help, they hope to ac- complish this. Union College Food Service is offering as it has in the past a rebate plan. Union students on the meal plan will be able to pledge any or all of their meals to Oxfam America on Thursday the 11th. Food Service will then donate a money equivalent to Oxfam. Signups for the Fast will be held_, at West, Hale House, Library Plaza, and the Mailroom this coming Monday and Tuesday (Nov. 11, 12). If you are interested in learning more about the fast and Oxfam America, brochures will be available when you sign up. Do not let this opportunity pass you by. Pledge Fast for twenty-four hours and show your concern for those starving in our world. Combine a sym- bolic fact ·with the practical donation of your meal money. Last year, six out of ten Union students on the meal plan participated. With your help we can make this year's effort even more successful. \With faith, we will hew out the mountain of despair a stone of hope.\ -Rev. Martin Luther King, Jr. Is Oxfam Day a charity project looking for a handout? No! It designs and organizes this day each year to 'increase our awareness of world hm1ger, a day to :make a per- sonal commitment to show solidarity with starving people and the problem with which they are faced daily. Participating in the fast is an easy and direct method of sharing what we have. It also offers the unique opportunity to add more · meaning to Thanksgiving. Dealing By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Assoc. Features Editor Alcohol related accidents are the leading cause of death in the 18-21 year old age group. We've all heard vague statistics such as this used to support the arguments of those in favor of increasing the drinking age. However, these people have failed to acknowledge equally impressive facts which prove that there are alternatives to raising the drjnking age that will cut down on alcohol abuse\ . . . a recent joint study con- ducted by Indiana University and the State University of New York revealed two dramatic statistics: students are con- tinuing to drink at the same rate as they did in 1982, but drunk driving has nonetheless dropped six percent during the same period.\ (Joseph Drape, Donn, Fall 1985. pg. 3) This fact suggests that through education and stricter legislation con- cerning alcohol. abuse -a more responsible attitude towards alcohol can be achieved. Thus, alcohol abuse can be prevented without infringing upon the rights of adults under the age of 21. Despite this fact the drinking age.will be increased to the age of 21 on December 1, 1985. By threatening to deprive the states of federal tax money for highways the government has pressured many states into adopting such legislation. Originally, the purpose of Enioy a Weekend Getaway By CATHY MARKES Staff Interested in traveling but lack the cash? Well, thi's time Union wants to ·help you take that weekend getaway--the Union University Traveling Club, to be.more specific. For those of you who say \This is a college, not a university,'' please read on. Union University was established in 1873, and in- corporates the Union College curriculum with that of the Albany Schools of Law, Medicine, and Pharmacy. Those of us who leave Union to study at these schools are therefore really not leaving Union at all. The Union University Traveling Club was founded by Paul J esep last spring in an effort to bridge the gap between the Albany and Schenectady campuses. The club's purpose is to promote socialization bet- ween faculty, alumni, and students. Through informal means, students may discover more information pertaining to their further studies or future careers. The club's first trip to Boston this past October was a huge success, with all 48 seats sold out three weeks in advance. This was a day trip to Quincy Market, and the 13-dollar fare included round trip tran- sportation, plus snacks on the · bus. This month's agenda has another day trip scheduled-this time it's New York City thrs Saturday, November 9; for 14 dollars. Some tickets are still available, and can be purchased in Mrs. Marra's office on third floor Old Chapel. In the near future; the club will have even better travel opportunities. on November 26, tickets will go on sale for a trip . to Broadwa~ to see ''Cats\ on May 17, 1986. The cost for this trip will be 45 dollars, and covers the cost of round trip transportation and the ticket to this highly acclainled Broad- way musical So for all of you who know this is what you'd love to. do in six months, go buy a ticket. You certainly won't be able to find a better'price. Also, keep in mind the possibility of a we~kend (overnight) ski trip sometime in February. With new clubs such as this around, how could you ever be bored at Union? Learn at Lunch By LISA TORTORELLO Staff For at least the past ten years, students· and professors have gathered at Hale House for lunch to mingle with others in a target language whether it be French, German, or Spanish. Today this tradition is still alive . and flourishing. According to Professor Camille M.C. Qualtere, tbe language tables \serve as a common .groWld for all those interested in a language,\ and all that entails. Students enjoy the tables rbecause they allow them the opportunity \to meet new students and professors'' and to \experiment with the language\ in a more com- fortable setting. Professor Warde, the Gennan table ad- visor, stated that the tables are \purposely · intended to give each and every student an opportWlity to experiment with a language in a more realistic and unpre~sured atmosphere.\ Although it can simply be termed as a practical ap- plication of what the student is learning in the classroom, I believe they have come to mean more than that. The tables bridge the gap between just learning a foreign language and experiencing the culture of the country. On several occasions· special guests and-or native speakers have come to the tables to enhance the hour of conversation and cultural ex· change. Professor Coppay acknowledges that a \whole spectrum exchange\ of culture takes place at each jnformal and \nonacademic\ luncheon. They give any level foreign language student the chance to learn, grow and have fun with the language. For all those interested, language tables welcome you to join them at the folloWi.Jlg times: Spanish table-Mondays at 12:20, French table- Wednesdays at 1:00, German table-Fridays at 1:00. With Drinking. raising the drinking age was to decrease alcohol related ac- cidents. Now, those in favor of this legislation claim to be in- terested in solving the larger problem of alcohol abuse in general. They propose to ac- complish this by raising the drinking age. This insinuates that they believe that ~lcohol abuse is a pr,oblem limited to those under the age of 21. This ignorant assumption is far from the truth. Alcohol abuse is a problem with all irrespQ.nsible, unintelHgent people. Last - summer, someone who was in my graduating class in high school was killed by a 34 year old man who was driving while intoxicated. Would those in favor of raising the drinking age find it feasable to continue to slowly increase the drinking age until we reach a new era of prohibition? Is it obvious that new alternatives must be found to decrease alcohol abuse. The key to solving this problem is to first face the fact that it is not a problem exclusive to young adults, and then to encourage a responsible attitude towards drinking. . Meanwhile, colleges across the country are havmg· to deal with the fact that the drinking age is going to be increased, along with their insurance rates. Each institute is responding to these cir- cumstances with different solutions: some, including Syracuse University, are prohibiting alcohol on campus, while ot~ers, such as·. Stanford, are creating educational programs to discourage alcohol abuse. \Universities that have developed strict prohibition policies seem to be bogged down in notifying students of and enforcing policy rather than the· ultimate objective of curbing alcohol abuse.\ (Dorm. Fall 1985. pg. 18) The question that still remains is: What is Union's policy regarding this issue? About two weeks ago, I attended an open forum meeting with the committee on alcohol use at Union College. It Was en- couraging to discover that this group did not advocate a dry campus policy, and they seemed to understand the plight of the Union student. They realize that drinking is a big part of college social life and wish to maintain a policy of moderation in compliance with state and federal laws. At this point the administration is fighting pressure from its insurance company to prohibit alcohol oh campus. The in- surance liability rate will be raised 42 percent in July, while coverage will decrease by one- third. Despite this, they wish to maintain drinking establish- ments, like the Skeller, on campus. The major difference will be that the purchasing age willbe21 instead of 19, and that less than one-third of the students will be legally allowed to drink. This will definitely put a damper on the fast dwindling social life at Union. However, the administration is aware of this problem and will hopefully help us save the dying social life here. Realistically, they acknowledge the fact that college students will not easily .give up alcohol; their goal is to prevent alcohol abuse. If someone were to hold a small private party ''behind closed doors\ and they were Continued on page 7 UNION UNIVERSITY TRAVELING CLUB AT UNION COLLEGE - -

- e I- s I s t 1 e s . e e f 1 ) CONCQRDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 Page7 Under21? Continued from page 6 to prevent alcohol abuse. It responsible enough to maintain may, in fact, create new control over it, who would be the problems. People will, no doubt, wiser? · · · · falsify I.D.s and turn to illegal What upset me the. moSt- means of obtaining alcohol. concerning school policy Thus, we are creating a new towards alcohal was that it black market product. If seems as though the days of-all alcohol becomes more .difficult campus parties have ended. to obtain than marijuana and Parties where alcohol is served other drug&, dealers are going will be by invitation only, and to find themselves with rapidly ·events such as Camp Union will increasing profits. Without probably be \dry.'? In general relatively safe drinking Union's alcohol policy' is to establishments, young adults upheld state laws, promote a may return to the high school responsible attitude towards scene of \drinking in the park.\ alcohol, and to develop an en- People who are of age may be tertaining social atmosphere forced to drive to bars if alcohol that does not depend on alcohol. is !l\available on campuses. All Union's administration isn't th1s seems to defeat the pUI'pose entirety responsible. for the of preventing alcohol abuse. changes in drinking age. They 1 This problem cannot be are. J!lerely upholding the laws legislated away by cveating a whwh our ·government has new prohibition; that has been created. Theoretically, in a · tried before:. It is time to ad- democracy it is the people that dress tbe true problems behind FEATURES Hogan's A !.ley, a new addition to the Skellar's video entotJrage. Radio Club's 70th Year! goyern themselves. If this is the abuse of alcohol instead of true we have no one to blame creating unconstitutional laws By JEF D. MAIN but ourselves. · we should turn to education as a Contributor listeners. Their first tran- smission could be heard as far away as South Dakota! In 1921 they added another tube to the set and began weekly broad- casts of music and speeches by the college president. Thousands of letters were received complimenting them expanding. They made their first overseas contact in the late 30's and shortly thereafter turned control of the station over to a group known today as WRUC. I don't believe that raising the means to solve the problems of drinking age is an effective way alcohol abuse. W2UC (not WRUC) is one of ,.-------------..;...---------- the old~st radio stations in the Women's Voice: country. u began as an ex- perimental group working for Our present goals include communications with students on terms abroad and listening to government radio 'broadcasts. We feel that it is important for us to be a link to the c~pus for those students in foreign lands. The government broadcasts, such as Radio Moscow, BBC Radio Algiers and others, may be useful in a few history courses which address current issues. All these broadcasts are in English. ·Sex Discrimination . ByLYNNHANO Contributor I had always assumed that at least from a legal standpoint sex discrimination in ed- ucation was a thing of the past. It is fairly clear that it was the intent of Congress in Title IX,,~of the 1972 education amendments to put a ban on sex: discrimination in schools. Specifically the law bans sex: discrimination from any federally funded \activities or programs.'' In the past this has been interpreted broadly to cover an entire institution that receives funds in any area. Legally all private and public Colleges and Universities would be included since if nothing else every institution has students that receive federal funds in . order to attend the school. Students could feel comfortable knowing that sex discrimination in any program within the school was not legally peF- missible. The February 1984 Supreme Court decision, Grove City College vs. Bell took a narrow interpretation of Title IX and severely set back the progress gained in civil rights laws. The CoUrt ruled 6-3 that according to th~ reading of Title IX only the specific program receiving aid is required to refrain from discrimination, not the entire institution. In other words a college may not discriminate in admitting students, but once they are admitted, it is per- fectly legal for them to discriminate; for example in the athletics department. At Northeastern University in Boston a student filed a Title IX complaint to the Office of Civil Rights for the college refusing to respond to a s-exual harassment incident. The OFC refused to near the issue because it did not occur withiri a federally funded program. This kind of \discriminatory non- discrimination\ seems to make a mockery of civil rights legislation. In order to make sure that such senseless discrimination does not continue due to the Grove City\ decision, Congress has introduced legislation that would clarify the wording so that the entire institution would always be covered. The same wording occurs in Title IV of the Civil Rights laws and the ·Rehabilitation Act (rights for handicapped). '.Ole Civil Rights Restoration Act HR 700 would insure that discrimination is banned across the board. As college students we should be concerned with the law being on our side, regardless of whether discrimination has occurred or not. Those who are interested in insuring that discrimination of any kind is illegal .in any area of an · educational institution should write their Senator or Representative in support of the Civil Rights Restoration Act. As a student and a voter they will listen to you and you can make a difference. Rap.e Crisis Center Confidential Counseling 346-2266 Don't hesitate to calL General Electric in December 1~15; 70 years ago! That makes us one of the oldest clubs on campus. _ What is amateur radio? We all remember the CB craze of the seventies. Amateur radio is similar, but far more diverse and complex:. Once you pass an FCC ex:am, many options are open to you including mobile operation, Morse code, slow- scam TV, radio teletype, computer netwt:~rking, satellite transmission, ''moon boun- cing,\ and more. Since the forties, contacts have been recorded in over 61 countries on all seven continents. Contacts have been achieved in most, if not all, fifty states and Canada also. Some of the countries contacted are: Bulgaria, Russia, Germany, Korea Japan, Chbta, Mexico, Cuba: Brazil, Peru, Kenya, South .Africa, Morocco, New Zealand, and the Philippines. It is ex- citing to be talking to someone over 1000 miles away, not to ~ention someone halfway around the world! - In the 1920's W2RC was popular all across the country. After World War II a group of students bega- nexperimenting with the radio club and building its membership. They decided to broadcast music for other o:perators to listen to. Thus, the birth of modern commercial radio. They had a radio tran- smitter composed of five tubes, a phonograph, and many on the programs. _ A year or so later the club wanted to broadcast an away football game. They got the details set and broadcasted the first football game on wireless radio. It was a Union vs. University of Rhode Island game. They broadcasted many other games after this first one .,and it became popular for other schools to do also. In 1922 the list of \firsts\ had grown. There were very few original things left to do. The FCC was swamped with requests for licenses so that people could listen to W2UC. Until now, however, no station had ever broadcasted across the entire United States. The club tried to accomplish this and in March 1922 W2UC, then known as WRL, became the first station to broadcast across th€: United States. They received word that their signal could be heard in Oakland, California. By this time WRL had daily broadcasts and was rapidly As far as our own interests are concerned, we plan to pursue our hobby as long as there are interested students. Amateur radio draws people who have diverse interests. Our monthly publication has projects for those interested in electronics and w~ can prepare you to upgrade or gain your first license. · So if any of this interests you then come to our next meeting TONIGHT, November 7, at 7 p.m. We meet in Haskin's Lab which is behind the Arts Building. Our club room is above central mail. We hope to see you there! ~·~~·~~~~~·~~·~~ Our Election for Editors-in-Chi.ef will be held Tues., Nov. 12 in the Concordy office. All staff members are eligible to vote. ~·~~·~~·~~·~~·~~ . . Act I: Steve Sanders with special guest • • • Act n: The Surgeon Generals Tonite! 9 pm ·Old Chapel Tickefs are $1.50 and are on sale in Old Chapel, 1st floor Ticket Booth.

Page 8 CONCORDiENSJS, November 7, 1985 (!LllltCJlfbitttsia _LE_T __ .. T_ER_S _____ _ Formdn/ al (Inion Collece 1877 ------------ --~---- What To Do? It's inevitable that Concordiensis must sooner or later address the issue of the twenty-one drinking age. Well, the sooner the better, right? Here goes! The Alcohol U se-8tudent Life Conunittee must, first of all, be commended on a job well done. Although the members have not made their final decisions and a proposal has not been submitted to the SAC, they have done a very good job in assessing the needs of the College Comrnm1ity. (See article, page one.) They are not blind. They know what an important role alcohol has played in collegiate life ever since - there has been collegiate life. We, the students, know how important its role has been. But, no longer. Life on campus is going to be very different when we arrive back on January 6, 1986. The committee has been sensitive to how we students are going to deal with our predicament. _ The important thing to stress here is what are we going to do? The question merits attention by every single student at Union. Both of-age and underage students are going to be affected by the new law and the new policy of the College .. What to do? Join the Social Alternatives Committee and make yourself heard. Be a part of the decision making process on our new alternatives, alternatives which will be necessary to our well being from now on. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, instead of being the ex- ception to norrn~llife, will now be an everyday run of the mill event in a state where the drinking age is twenty-one. Applications for the new committee are available in Mrs. Marra's office. third floor Old Chaoel. Thev are due a week from tomorrow. Don't delay. The law won't. No Excuse Last spring term when Hale House Dining Hall was closed in order that work could begin on a new kit- chen, we were told that it would be ready for use by September. Well, it is now November-two months later-and we are still awaiting the re-opening of Old Chapel for dinner. All we have heard is one .excuse after another regarding the cause of the delay. Granted, some of these .excuses may be valid, but the least Food Service could do is to make dining tolerable at West Dining Hall or give us a price cut on the meal plan. The current state of affairs at West is unforgivable. First of all, now that we are no longer on daylight savings time, everyone and his brother are going to dinner at 5 p.m. Consequently, while you are trying to eat a meal peacefully, there is inevitablysome guy hulking over you with his tray ,waiting for your seat. In addition, the long lines for hot food are ridiculous. You can end up waiting 20 minutes to get up to the food just to find that the lasagna is runny and the spare ribs hardly distinguishable as food. The salad bar is another problem. It is in a terrible spot. It was not bad when there wasn't a line for hot food running into the dining room. But with the lines so long now, you have to elbow, push, and kick your way through the line to get to the lettuce. The glasses are yet another issue. Have you taken a look at the glasses at West lately? Maybe Food Service should invest in Cascade. Not only are the glasses spotty, they are dirty. There is always something crusted on the outside of them. Once you get your food, you face another nearly impossible situation-getting a table without being tripped or running into someone else who is trying to get through the maze. All in all, something needs to be done. I won't even go into how I feel about ~ating with plastic forks at lunch and never finding any soup left when I get to Old Chapel at 12:30. Upperclassmen have really been short-changed this fall when it comes to dining ser- vices. The fact that we have had to pay full price for this terrible service just makes the whole issue more exasperating. ''\ _.., . ' . •• . • . l ~ J Awareness Advocated· To the Editor: The views I express are en- tirely my own. Please do not affiliate them with any organization of which I may be a part. My concern lies with attitudes on camnus and is related to Andrea ·Parrot's discussion on Sexual Communication Which was held on Monday night. When I asked a male friend to attend the .speaker, he refused, saying that \those things don't happen here at Union.\ If he is referring to acquaintance .rape, or the problems with male- female- relationships that Dr. Parrott addressed, then he is most assuredly wrong. Dr. Parrott discussed socializing factors and nonverbal cues that lead to misunderstandings on both sides. She made several suggestions on how to better communicate sexually as well as avoid compromising situations that neither men nor. women wish to be in. The discussion was highly suc- cessful with more than one hundred people attenqmg. More of such discussions are planned and I would highly recommend them as they will be par- ticularly enlighten:ing and create an awareness of relationships that does not currently exist on campus. What ts this awareness that we are lacking? Perhaps It is more of an attitude-an attitude of mutual respect ,for the op- · posite sex. I find it . appalling that no less than three frater- nities have brought strippers on· campus to perform for them this tenn. This is degrading to the women who atten,d Union, and blatantly objectifies women as well as creates the subliminal message that . they do not deserve the .same respect as men. In an intellectual at- mosphere such as Union's, it is -demoralizing. As an RA last year, I recall several males asking me who the \good- looking'' freshmen W'Omen were, and which ones would \give .. any action\-these were the ones that the men said they would give party invitations to. I sincerely do not intend to put down the fraternity system, these examples just happen to stick most heavily on my mind. I do not believe , that such negative attitudes exist solely on the part of men either. \V.omen ars guilty too, par- ticularly in the way they stereotype the men that live iri these fraternities and do not give the individual members a chance to show their true colors. In the same way that society socializes the dynamics of sexual communication and. the \games people play'' as Dr. Parrott explained, Union seems to socialize these attitudes by knowing of their existence and choosing to ignore them. t applaud the Academic Affairs Council for putting the· subject of sexism on their ·agenda and hope that they will: 1} take a look at the attitudes and' treatment of both sexes on campus, and 2} will take a wide enough perspective to in- vestigate the fraternity-sorority system and how it may be used to generate healthier attitudes at Union. Such an awareness· is an important part of any academic environment. Respectfully submitted, Chris Siler Come to Coffeehouse To the Editor: We are writing this letter to inform students about Cof- feehouse,.an organization which is made possible by the student activities fund to which we all contribute. Coffeehouse· takes place every other Friday night in Lower Hale House lounge. I presents a variety of en- tertainers from vocalists to guitarists and bands. Despite the fun atmosphere, turnout in the recent past has not been very good. . As ·we all know, many changes both physical and social, ~are taking place on this campus. In light of this, we feel that students should take ad- vantage of all the opportunities available to us. Coffeehouse is a relaxing evening and a unique alternative to the existing social life at Union. A lot of time and effort has been put into organizing this and we hope that it's successful in benefiting student life. This week's,performer will be Steven Baird, a popular folk- singer. He will be performing around campus throughout the day, and at Coffeehouse at 9 p.m. Friday night. Tickets are available at the Box Office. Please join us! Sincerely, Susan Singer_ Union's Review Distributed To the Editors: The latest edition of the Union College Undergraduate Review is now being distributed on campus. This is the most diverse edition of the Review· published thus far·: the Editorial Board is justifiably proud of this fact and hopes that the Review's readers will find this year's edition interesting and enjoyable. The Undergraduate Review was founded three years ago to provide a forum for un- dergraduate work in the Humanities and Social Scien- ces. Students at Union and other schools in the Northeast are invited each year to submit papers to the Review's Editorial Board for con-· sideration for publication. Papers may be based on research or materials read and discussed in class. The Review does not accept creative writing or poetry; it does accept fresh- man preceptorial papers. This year's deadline for submission is January 24, 1986; papers may be submitted to Box 2590~ Unfortunately, this year's issue is marred by an unac- ceptable number of typographical error~. There are technical reasons for the presence of these errors, but it serves no purpose at this point to recount the story. Suffice it to say that the Editorial Board knew of this problem before the edition was printed, and for various reasons I as editor decided to print. With the benefit of hindsight I realize that this may not have been the best course to take, but I have. no regrets, given the cir- cumstances under which the . - decision was made. I hope that our readers will_ not let the typos in this edition detract from the - Continued on Page 9 [. I I

Page 8 CONCORDIENSJS, NoJ•ember 7, 1985 0JDttfllfbitttSi£i _LE_T_T_ER_S ____ _ Fournkrl al Umon Coll~~t /877 ~--~------ -------- What To Do? It's inevitable that Concordiensis must sooner or later address the issue of the twenty-one drinking age. Well, the sooner the better, right? Here goes! The Alcohol Use-student Life Committee must, first of all, be commended on a job well done. Although the members have not made their final decisions and a proposal has not been submitted to the SAC, they have done a very good job in assessing the needs of the College Community. (See article, page one.) They are not blind. They know what an important role alcohol has played in collegiate life ever since - there has been collegiate life. We, the students, know how important its role has been. But, no longer. Life on campus is going to be very different when we arrive back on January 6, 1986. The committee has been sensitive to how we students are going to deal with our predicament. The important thing to stress here is what are we going to do? The question merits attention by every single student at Union. Both of-age and underage students are going to be affected by the new law and the new policy of the College .. What to do? Join the Social Alternatives Connnittee and make yourself heard. Be a part of the decision making process on our new alternatives, alternatives which will be necessary to our well being from now on. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, instead of being the ex- ception to normal life, will now be an everyday run of the mill event in a state where the drinking age is twenty-one. Applications for the new committee are available in Mrs. Marra's office. third floor Old Chaoel. Thev are due a week from tomorrow. Don't delay. The law won't. No Excuse Last spring term when Hale House Dining Hall was closed in order that work could begin on a new kit- chen, we were told that it would be ready for use by September. Well, it is now November-two months later-and we are still awaiting the re-opening of Old Chapel for dinner. All we have heard is one excuse after another regarding the cause of the delay. Granted, some of these excuses may be valid, but the least Food Service could do is to make dining tolerable at West Dining Hall or give us a price cut on the meal plan. The current state of affairs at West is unforgivable. First of all, now that we are no longer on daylight savings time, everyone and his brother are going to dinner at 5 p.m. Consequently, while you are trying to eat a meal peacefully, there is inevitably some guy hulking over you with his tray ,waiting for your seat. In addition, the long lines for hot food are ridiculous. You can end up waiting 20 minutes to get up to the food just to find that the lasagna is runny and ~he spare ribs hardly distinguishable as food. The salad bar is another problem. It is in a terrible spot. It was not bad when there wasn't a line for hot food running into the dining room. But with the lines so long now, you have to elbow, push, and kick your way through the line to get to the lettuce. The glasses are yet another issue. Have you taken a look at the glasses at West lately? Maybe Food Service should invest in Cascade. Not only are the glasses spotty, they are dirty. There is always something crusted on the outside of them. Once you get your food, you face another nearly impossible situation-getting a table without being tripped or running into someone else who is trying to get through the maze. All in all, something needs to be done. I won't even go into how I feel about eating with plastic forks at lunch and never finding any soup left when I get to Old Chapel at 12:30. Upperclassmen have really been short-changed this fall when it comes to dining ser- vices. The fact that we have had to pay full price fot this terrible service just makes the whole issue more exasperating. Awareness Advocated ------------------------------------------------------------------ To the Editer: The views I express are en- tirely my own. Please do not affiliate them with any organization of which I may be a part. My concern lies with attitudes on campus and is related to Andrea Parrot's discussion en Sexual Communication which was held on Monday night. When I asked a male friend te attend the speaker, he refused, saying that \those things don't happen here at Union.\ If he is referring to acquaintance rape, or the problems with male- female relationships that Dr. Parrott addressed, then he is most assuredly wrong. Dr. Parrott discussed socializing factors and nonverbal cues that lead to misunderstandings on both sides. She made several suggestions on how to better communicate sexually as well as avoid cempromising situations that neither men nor women wish to be in. The discussion was highly suc- cessful with more than one hundred people attending. More of such discussions are planned and I would highly recommend them as they will be par- ticularly enlightening and create an awareness of relationships that does not currently exist on campus. What is this awareness that we are lacking? Perhaps it is more of an attitude-an attitude of mutual respect for the op- posite sex. I find it appalling that no less than three frater- nities have brought strippers on campus to perform for them this term. This is degrading to the women who attend Union, and blatantly objectifies WGmen as well as creates the subliminal message that they do not deserve the same respect as men. In an intellectual at- mosphere such as Union's, it is demoralizing. As an RA last year, I recall several males asking me who the \good- looking\ freshmen women were, and which ones would \give any action\-these were the ones that the men said they would give party invitations to. I sincerely do not intend to put down the fraternity system, these examples just happen to stick most heavily on my mind. I do not believe that such negative attitudes exist solely on the part of men either. Women ars guilty too, par- ticularly in the way they stereotype the men that live in these fraternities and do not give the individual members a chance to show their true celors. In the same way that seciety socializes the dynamics of sexual communication and the \games people play\ as Dr. Parrott e:x;plained, Union seems to socialize these attitudes by knewing of their existence and choosing to ignere them. I applaud the Academic Affairs Council for putting the subject of sexism on their agenda and hope that they will: 1) take a look at the attitudes and treatment of both sexes on campus, and 2) will take a wide enough perspective to in- vestigate the fraternity-sorority system and how it may be used to generate healthier attitudes at Union. Such an awareness is an important part of any academic environment. Respectfully submitted, Chris Siler Come to Coffeehouse To the Editor: We are writing this letter to inform students about Cof- feehouse, an organization which is made possible by the student activities fund to which we all contribute. Coffeehouse takes place every other Friday night in Lower Hale House lounge. I presents a variety of en- tertainers from vocalists to guitarists and bands. Despite the fun atmosphere, turnout in the recent past has not been very good. As we all know, many changes both physical and social, are taking place on this campus. In light of this, we feel that students should take ad- vantage of all the opportunities available to us. Coffeehouse is a relaxing evening and a unique alternative to the existing social life at Union. A lot of time and effort has been put into organizing this and we hope that it's successful in benefiting student life. This week's performer will be Steven Baird, a popular folk- singer. He will be performing around campus throughout the day, and at Coffeehouse at 9 p.m. Friday night. Tickets are available at the Box: Office. Please join us! Sincerely, Susan Singer Union's Review Distributed To the Editors: The latest edition of the Union College Undergraduate Review is now being distributed on campus. This is the most diverse edition of the Review· published thus far: the Editorial Board is justifiably proud of this fact and hopes that the Review's readers will find this year's edition interesting and enjoyable. The Undergraduate Review was founded three years ago to provide a forum for un- dergraduate work in the Humanities and Social Scien- ces. Students at Union and other schools in the Northeast are invited each year to submit papers to the Review's Editorial Board for con- sideration for publication. Papers may be based on research or materials read and discussed in class. The Review does not accept creative writing or poetry; it does accept fresh- man preceptorial papers. This year's deadline for submission is January 24, 1986; papers may be submitted to Box 2590. Unfortunately, this year's issue is marred by an unac- ceptable number of typographical errors. There are technical reasons for the presence of these errors, but it serves no purpose at this point to recount the story. Suffice it to say that the Editorial Board knew of this problem before the edition was printed, and for various reasons I as editor decided to print. With the benefit of hindsight I realize that this may not have been the best course to take, but I have no regrets, given the cir- cumstances under which the decision was made. I hope that our readers will not let the typos in this edition detract from the - Continued on Page 9 ' I i. i . ~\ ; . I ?

CONCORDIENSJS, November 7, 1985 Page 9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES The Battle . Continues Market Education To the Editors: Please allow me to use the space in this column to address Professor Frank Gado. Most Esteemed Professor Gado: First of all, I highly resent your addressing me as \dear.\ I am not dear to you, nor are you dear to me. If this salutation was your attempt. at sarcasm, consider the favor returned. You call my use of freedom of the press \impertinent.\ Is it impertinent for me to express myself and defend Con- cordiensis? Why? Because you are a professor? God help us if professors ever rise above criticism! Whether or not you realize· it, you are a hwnan being~much like me and billions of others~and' are above none of us. If you think having a piece of parchment · hanging on your wall makes you immune to criticism, I suggest · you examine your motives for becoming an \educator.\ Is it because you wish to impart knowledge, or is it solely to attain the auspices of that position? You have obviously misconstrued (again!) what I meant by pointing out that .you \smell defeat in the air.\ What I said was that you attack something irrelevant when you cannot \win\ the real·argument at hand. When a wasp's senses are assaulted by smoke, the wasp, out of sheer anger and frustration, stins the nearest - person. I hope this analogy clears up your muddled per- ception of my statement. As for your behavior at the panel discussion: my \dastardly purpose\? What are you, demented? Since when is stating the truth a dastardly purpose? Is it not true that you were on your feet immediately at the slightest hint of dissent? It is. Is it not true that you acted aggressively? It is. Is it not true that you spoke more frequently than anyone else at the panel discussion? It is. Therefore, I am not fabricating any such stories as you suggest I am. Please spare us from your justification of your attack on Concordiensis. Had you in- cluded some constructive criticism in your irrational flagellation, you might have gotten away with calling it satire; however, in your haste to chastise, you apparently could not think of any helpful suggestions. Does this mean you wish Concordiensis to repeat whatever crimes you accuse them of so you can play the martyred professor again? And you ins1st that everyone grossly misreads your writings. If you are so misunderstood by so many people, then why don't you clarify yourself? Do you just enjoy lashing out con- stantly, or . would you rather stop all the \gross misreadings\ and perhaps debate the real issue? You might find that people are actually willing to listen to what you are saying. Then again, you may then no longer be able to cry, ~'You don't understand! You don't understand!\ What a shame that would be! I'm sure Concordiensis would prefer to print your explanation of your misunderstood letters~and maybe even some constructive criticism-rather than yet another {! ) piece of semantical nitpicking. Furthermore, if you feel so utterly persecuted and drastically unhappy with the \failure of the students' education,\ perhaps you 'Should consider going elsewhere to \teach\. Most of the professors at Union College are very im- pressive indeed in their com- petence; in fact, the faculty in general is one of the most im- pressive features of this school. Students can sense when a professor is giving his all in teaching them, and they return that kind of enthusiasm. Any frustration or exasperation you feel towards the students is probably a reflection on something besides the students' ability to learn. May I remind you that the professors are here for us, not the other way around. If my commentaries are \adhominem fudge,\ then yours are ad hominem guano: When I wrote about your views of the Freshman Preceptorial, you called my argument \feverish and aggressive\; but you make no attempt to point out my errors and enlighten all of us. Perhaps you will be more effective and rational in your next excursion to the Land of Invective. Have a nice trip this Fall. Joy Runyon By DARRYL BROWN WASHINGTON A university president explained to me the analogy he believes fits today's institutions of higher education: \Students are shoppers,\ he beamed proudly, \and professors the merchants of learning.'' I thought he had the wrong idea, and told him so, publicly. Though my response was overly disrespectful for a person of his station, I still cringe when I remember his line. Now we have a hot new education teatise, by Arthur G. Powell et al., which finds that philosophy embodied in most of American secondary education, so Powell calls his book The Shopping Mall High School. Though Powell & Co. are not looking at colleges, their disparaging analogy of school- as-retail-merchant points up much that is true, and wrong, with our postsecondary education system. Most students, since the system puts them in the catbird seat, will disagree; and since my university president does not at all hold a radical opinion, many campus administrators will too. Powell comes to his mall metaphor because, looking at representative high schools, he found smorgasbord curricula designed to have something for . everyone. Ideally, in this scheme, the array of educational \services\ is so varied, all can take their fill, find it palatable, and be satisfied. especially for the vast majority of institutions that have no big name or legendary program with which to lure students. Administrators have to attract students, and keep them, and graduate them. 11ley do it, often, by displaying inviting wares and letting students shop around a flexible basic studies or general education requirement, without anything as unyielding as a strictly defined core. curriculum of basic subjects, texts and skills. Powell's high school analysis fits colleges here: schools \will press themselves to offer great variety but will not press students to choose wisely or deeply.\ The more a college does so, the \less it is able to forge any workable consensus about what educational ex- periences are of most worth.\ Commitment to a substantial, well-disciplined, thorough education is optional; one can get by without such a grind. Preregistratio,n Frustration Colleges end up with much the same system. High schools need the variety because literally every adolescent is expected to go to high schoo~ face some bene fie i a l e ducat ion a 1 challenge, and then, excepting some dropouts, graduate. Keeping an unending variety of teenagers interested in school calls for some attractive ' merchandise. So administrators keep curricula appealing to keep students interested. Why not buckle down and teach a leaner, more sound educational scheme, letting those who decline go elsewhere, or go not at all? Because enrollments would drop, and then funding would follow. Just last week, rewriting the Higher Education Act, Congress was devising ways to make sure that if enrollments decline, ap- propriations do too, so no money is wasted. Administrators never think they can live with less money, even serving fewer customers, so the curriculum stays light to keep the shoppers coming in. Numerous students tend not to insist their course of study drill them in the fun- damentals and complexities of government, history, science and literature, but their in- structors should. To the Editors: I know what people will say, that I should have thought of requirements earlier and I wouldn't be in this mess. But I didn't, so here I am. I was planning all the nifty courses I could take while finishing off that last \F\ credit at the same time.xHomes and Buildings was my goal, .Plong with two other courses, French to complete my major requirements and a new economics course offered this winter. According to my idealistic calculations, they would all fit together and I would have a great term taking some courses I wanted to take. I felt the first drop from the storm when Homes and Buildings vanished froni the 1985-86 Winter Course Listing. I wondered if I had misread that short sheet issued last fall which said \Proposed 1985.;$ Fall and Winter Courses\; but there under E.L.L. for the winter was number 12-Homes and Buildings. So I checked the short sheets issued this term, \Proposed 1985-86 Winter and Spring Courses\ and there again was ELL 12 for Winter Term. Reassured, I went to Civil Engineering to tell them that they forgot to put in my course, Homes and Buildings. It was no misprint, they assured me. They had planned to teach the course, but when the time came for scheduling, no one had' time to teach it, so ELL 12 got droppeq. I guess it was my faUlt for looking forward to a course just because it was \Proposed for winter term. Going back to the preregistration Bible, the 1985- 86 Winter Term Course Listing, I looked for another \F credit and found only one, right where it was supposed to be, under ENGINEERING LIBERAL LEARNING. So I signed up for Energy and got a card. Great. Then the Domino Effect star- ted. Because Energy meets only on MondaY'artd Wednesday, and my last, and only, required French course meets at the exact same time, I had to cancel the French course ·and try to take an independent study. Two courses gone. Then, last but not least, the Economics department decided · to make the financial markets course a \Freshman Priority\ course. Apparently the in- tention to make this course exclusively underclass had always existed. ~ faculty member told me that this was so that Freshmen could take an · Economics course, because often even Freshmen Economics majors have trouble getting one. The rationale made sense to me. I don't want Fresh- men Eco majors to be deprived. But what about the 15 Seniors who signed up to take this course and cotad not? 11le Economics Department, as far as I can tell, made no effort to tell people that this course had Freshmen priority, and that Seniors almost certainly couldn't get it. · So here I am, waiting to register for courses I had not planned on. I understand that These Things Happen, but an annoying thought keeps creeping into the back of my head. For about fourteen thousand dollars, I feel as though I'm being kind of ripped- off. And with a Sixt -odd Million Review ••• Continued from page 8 excellent work done by this year's contributors. I would like to thank the members of the Review's staff, · the Editorial Board, and the readers (faculty members who helped to edit papers chosen by the Editorial Board) for the hard work that they put into this year's edition of the Review. I would also like to thank Professor Hans Freund for his assistance in finding a motto for the Review~ Very truly yours, Phil Bean; Editor Undergraduate Review Dollar endowment, I wonder why the college couldn't hire a few professors here and there to teach the courses no one here has time to teach, or teach the lost 15 Seniors the course they couldn't get because it had Freshman Priority. I wonder if all of this is a result of last year's course-load reduction for faculty which wasn't supposed to affect the Students? Tod Dimmick '86 Colleges educate a smaller, voluntary, slightly more elite group, who choose their schools and choose to remain or leave. That poses a challenge, Our government leaders, at their best, give us policies that are good for us rather than what we, at any impulsive moment, desire. High school and college administrators, at their best, do likewise. Arts Pages Lacking To the Editor: We, the officers of several arts-related activities, would like to express our great disappointment in Con- cordiensis' coverage of and cooperation in advertising for the musical, visual, and theatrical events scheduled on .campus. At least two pages in every issue of Concordy have been devoted to the arts. Unfor· tunately, the events reviewed on these pages have been almost entirely ones. which occurred off-campus. In par- ticular the issue following Homecoming Weekend pointed out the one-sidedness of arts coverage. Although there were several student-sponsored events, in- cluding the Gospel Ensemble's debut, the Arts Club Dance Club performance, the Dutch Pipers, the ,Jazz Ensemble, the Arts Club photography contest, Cabaret, and the Choir's debut Homecoming concert, none was reviewed in any way in the Oct. 31st issue of Concordiensis (even though attendance· was high at all of the above events). The review of Robert Klein's performance was the only Homecoming review. It was allotted half a page of the two Arts Pages. Of the remaining space, about one--third of a page was dedicated to a review of a music club in Albany, the rest was filled by ads and drawings of jack-o-lanterns (apparently put in to use up space). It is our belief that Concordy should, as it has in the past, review on-campus events regularly. It is to the campus' benefit as well as the clubs'. Reviews provide campus awareness of the arts as well as publicity (good or bad) for the clubs involved. Although members of clubs can (and do) write promotional articles prior to events, we cannot write our own reviews. Reviews should be written by someone who has no connection with the event taking place, by a member of the audience, an observer who can presumably write an ob- jective opinion. This is your responsibility to the clubs and to the entire Union community. Advertising is primarily our responsibility, a responsibility which has been made more difficult through the layout trends this year. Ads submitted have been altered significantly. An extreme example of this is the Arts Club's attempt to provide information about their first photography contest. One week, the. Arts Club submitted two separate ads for two separate events; they also submitted a small article about these events. This article and the two ads were compressed into one inffectual \ad\ by a member of your staff. Adver- tising submitted has also been reduced considerably in size, even when the appearance of drawings of pumpkins suggests an excess of space on the Arts Pages. We applaud your promotion of the arts in the capital area. The events Calendar is an ex- cellent idea. Would you please include campus events on the calendar? In the Oct. 31st issue you listed plays at Proctor's, Capital Rep., and Siena College under the \11leatre\ heading, but omitted any calendar reference to Mountebanks's production. In short, you have done an exceptionally good job of covering area events. If the same care were extended to the coverage of student activities, the Concordiensis Arts Pages would, indeed, be excellent ones. Sincerely, Mary Carroll President of Arts Club LeAta R. Jackson Business Manager, Mountebanks Lisa Stark President of Dance Club Deni Rightmere President of U. C. Choir

·; . ' '~\ CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 Page 9 LETTERS COMMENTARIES The Battle Continues Market Education To the Editors: Please allow me to use the space in this column to address Professor Frank Gado. Most Esteemed Professor Gado: First of aH, I highly resent your addressing me as \dear.\ I am not dear to you, nor are you dear to me. If this salutation was your attempt at sarcasm, consider tbe favor returned. You call my use of freedom of the press \impertinent.\ Is it impertinent for me to express myself and defend Con- cordiensis? Why? Because you are a professor? God help us if professors ever rise abave criticism! Whether or not you realize it, you are a human being-much like me and billions of ethers-and are above none of us. If you think having a piece of parcluneBt hanging on your wall makes you immune to criticism, I suggest you examine your motives for becoming an \educator.\ Is it because you wish to impart knowledge, or is it solely to attain the auspices of that position? You have obviously misconstrued (again!) what I meant by pointing out that you \smell defeat in the air.\ What I said was that you attack something irrelevant when you cannot \win\ the real argument at hand. When a wasp's senses are assaulted by smoke, the wasp, out of sheer anger and frustration, stins the nearest person. I hope this analogy clears up your muddled per- ception 0f my statement. As for your behavior at the panel discussion: my \dastardly purpose\? What are you, demented? Since when is stating the truth a dastardly purpose? Is it not true that you were on your feet immediately at the slightest hint of dissent? It is. Is it not true that yau acted aggressively? It is. Is it not true that you spoke more frequently than anyone else at the panel discussio:a? It is. Therefore, I am not fabricatrng any such stories as you suggest I am. Please spare us from your justification of your attack on Concordiensis. Had you in- cluded some constructive criticism in your irrational flagellation, you might have gotten away with calling it satire; however, in your haste to chastise, you apparently could not think of any helpful suggestions. Does this mean you wish Concordiensis to repeat whatever crimes you accuse them of so you can play the martyred professor again? And you instst that everyone grossly misreads your writings. If you are so misunderstood by so many people, then why don't you clarify yourself? Do you just enjoy lashing out con- stantly, or would you rather stop all the ''gross misreadings\ and perhaps debate the real issue? You might find that people are actually willing to listen to what you are saying. Then again, you may then no longer be able to cry, ~'You don't understand! You don't understand!\ What a shame that would be! I'm sure Concordiensis would prefer to print your explanation of your misunderstood letters-and maybe even some constructive criticism-rather than yet another (! ) piece of semantical nitpicking. Furthermore, if you feel so utterly persecuted and drastically unhappy with the \failure of the students' education,\ perhaps you should consider going elsewhere to \teach\. Most of the professors at Union College are very im- pressive indeed in their com- petence; in fact, the faculty in general is one of the most im- pressive features of this school. Students can sense when a professor is giving his all in teaching them, and they return that kind of enthusiasm. Any frustration or exasperation you feel towards the students is probably a reflection on something besides the students' ability to learn. May I remind you that the professors are here for us, not the other way around. If my commentaries are \adhominem fudge,\ then yours are ad hominem guano: When I wrote about your views of the Freshman Preceptorial, you called my argument \feverish and aggressive\; but you make no attempt to point out my errors and enlighten all of us. Perhaps you will be more effective and rational in your next excursion to the Land of Invective. Have a nice trip this Fall. Joy Runyon By DARRYL BROWN WASHINGTON A university president explained ta me the analogy he believes fits today' s instit1:1tians of higher education: \Students are shoppers,\ he beamed proudly, \and professors the merchants of learning.\ I thought he had the wrong idea, and told him so, publicly. Though my response was overly disrespectful for a person of his station, I still cringe when I remember his line. Now we have a hot new education teatise, by Arthur G. :Powell et al., which finds that philosophy embodied in most of American secondary education, so Powell calls his book The Shopping Mall High School. Though Powell & Co. are not looking at colleges, their disparaging analogy of school- as-retail-merchant points up much that is true, and wrong, with our postsecondary education system. Most students, since the system puts them in the catbird seat, will disagree; and since my university president does not at all hold a radical opinion, many campus administrators will too. Powell comes to his mall metaphor because, looking at representative high schools, he found smorgasbord curricula designed to have something for everyone. Ideally, in this scheme, the array of educational \services\ is so varied, all can take their fill, find it palatable, and be satisfied. especially for the vast majority of institutions that have no big name or legendary program with which to lure students. Administrators have to attract students, and keep them, and graduate them. They do it, often, by displaying inviting wares and lettrng students shop around a flexible basic studies or general education requirement, without anything as unyielding as a strictly defined core curricul urn of basic subjects, texts and skills. Powell's high school analysis fits colleges here: schools \will press themselves to offer great variety but will not press students to choose wisely or deeply.\ The more a college does so, the \less it is able to forge any workable consensus about what educational ex- periences are of most worth.\ Commitment to a substantial, well-disciplined, thorough education is optional; one can get by without such a grind. Preregistration Frustration Colleges end up with much the same system. High schools need the variety because literally every adolescent is expected to go to high school, face some beneficial educational challenge, and then, excepting some dropouts, graduate. Keeping an unending variety of teenagers interested in school calls for some attractive merchandise. So administrators keep curricula appealing to keep students interested. Why not buckle down and teach a leaner, more sound educational scheme, letting those who decline go elsewhere, or go not at all? Because enrollments would drop, and then funding would follow. Just last week, rewriting the Higher Education Act, Congress was devising ways to make sure that if enrollments decline, ap- propriations do too, so no money is wasted. Administrators never think they can live with less money, even serving fewer customers, so the curriculum stays light to keep the shoppers coming in. Numerous students tend not to insist their course of study drill them in the fun- damentals and complexities of government, history, science and literature, but their in- structors should. To the Editors: I know what people will say, that I should have thought of requirements earlier and I wouldn't be in this mess. But I didn't, so here I am. I was planning all the nifty courses I could take while finishing off that last \F\ credit at the same time.xHomes and Buildings was my goal, ~!'!long with two other courses, French to complete my major requirements and a new economics course offered this winter. According to my idealistic calculations, they would all fit together and I would have a great term taking some courses I wanted to take. I felt the first drop from the storm when Homes and Buildings vanished from the 1985-86 Winter Course Listing. I wondered if I had misread that short sheet issued last fall which said \Proposed 1985-86 Fall and Winter Courses\; but there under E.L.L. for the winter was number 12-Homes and Buildings. So I checked the short sheets issued this term, \Proposed 1985-86 Winter and Spring Courses\ and there again was ELL 12 for Winter Term. Reassured, I went to Civil Engineering to tell them that they forgot to put in my course, Homes and Buildings. It was no misprint, they assured me. They had planned to teach the course, but when the time came for scheduling, no one had time to teach it, so ELL 12 got dropped. I guess it was my fault for looking forward to a course just because it was ''Proposed for winter term. Going back to the preregistration Bible, the 1985- 86 Winter Term Course Listing, I looked for another \F\ credit and found only one, right where it was supposed to be, under ENGINEERING LIBERAL LEARNING. So I signed up for Energy and got a card. Great. Then the Domino Effect star- ted. Because Energy meets only on Monday and Wednesday, and my last, and only, required French course meets at the exact same time, I had to cancel the French course and try to take an independent study. Two courses gone. Then, last but not least, the Economics department decided to make the financial markets course a \Freshman Priority\ course. Apparently the in- tention to make this course exclusively underclass had always existed. J:.. faculty member told me that this was so that Freshmen could take an Economics course, because often even Freshmen Economics majors have trouble getting one. The rationale made sense to me. I don't want Fresh- men Eco majors to be deprived. But what about the 15 Seniors who signed up to take this course and could not? The Economics Department, as far as I can tell, made no effort to tell people that this course had Freshmen priority, and that Seniors almost certainly couldn't get it. So here I am, waiting to register for courses I had not planned on. I understand that These Things Happen, but an annoying thought keeps creeping into the back of my head. For about fourteen thousand dollars, I feel as though I'm being kind of ripped- off. And with a Sixt -odd Million Review .... Continued from page 8 excellent work done by this year's contributors. I would like to thank the members of the Review's staff, the Editorial Board, and the readers (faculty members who helped to edit papers chosen by the Editorial Board) for the hard work that they put into this year's edition of the Review. I would also like to thank Professor Hans Freund for his assistance in finding a motto for the Review . Very truly yours, Phil Bean, Editor Undergraduate Review Dollar endowment, I wonder why the college couldn't hire a few professors here and there to teach the courses no one here has time to teach, or teach the lost 15 Seniors the course they couldn't get because it had Freshman Priority. I wonder if all of this is a result of last year's course-load reduction for faculty which wasn't supposed to affect the Students? Tod Dimmick '86 Colleges educate a smaller, voluntary, slightly more elite group, who choose their schools and choose to remain or leave. That poses a challenge, Our government leaders, at their best, give us policies that are good for us rather than what we, at any impulsive moment, desire. High school and college administrators, at their best, do likewise. Arts Pages Lacking To the Editor: We, the officers of several arts-related activities, would like to express our great disappointment in Con- cordiensis' coverage of and cooperation in advertising for the musical, visual, and theatrical events scheduled on campus. At least two pages in every issue of Concordy have been devoted to the arts. Unfor- tunately, the events reviewed on these pages have been almost entirely ones which occurred off-campus. In par- ticular the issue following Homecoming Weekend pointed out the one-sidedness of arts coverage. Although there were several student-sponsored events, in- cluding the Gospel Ensemble's debut, the Arts Club Dance Club performance, the Dutch Pipers, the .Jazz Ensemble, the Arts Club photography contest, Cabaret, and the Choir's debut Homecoming concert, none was reviewed in any way in the Oct. 31st issue of Concordiensis (even though attendance was high at all of the above events). The review of Robert Klein's performance was the only Homecoming review. It was allotted half a page of the two Arts Pages. Of the remaining space, about one-third of a page was dedicated to a review of a music club in Albany, the rest was filled. by ads and drawings of jack-o-lanterns (apparently put in to use up space). It is our belief that Concordy should, as it has in the past, review on-campus events regularly. It is to the campus' benefit as well as the clubs'. Reviews provide campus awareness of the arts as well as publicity (good or bad) for the clubs involved. Although members of clubs can (and do) write promotional articles prior to events, we cannot write our own reviews. Reviews should be written by someone who has no connection with the event taking place, by a member of the audience, an observer who can presumably write an ob- jective opinion. This is your responsibility to the clubs and to the entire Union corrununity. Advertising is primarily our responsibility, a responsibility which has been made more difficult through the layout trends this year. Ads submitted have been altered significantly. An extreme example of this is the Arts Club's attempt to provide information about their first photography contest. One week, the Arts Club submitted two separate ads for two separate events; they also submitted a small article about these events. This article and the two ads were compressed into one inffectual \ad\ by a member of your staff. Adver- tising submitted has also been reduced considerably in size, even when the appearance of drawings of pumpkins suggests an excess of space on the Arts Pages. We applaud your promotion of the arts in the capital area. The events Calendar is an ex- cellent idea. Would you please include campus events on the calendar? In the Oct. 31st issue you listed plays at Proctor's, Capital Rep., and Siena College under the \Theatre\ heading, but omitted any calendar reference to Mountebanks's production. In short, you have done an exceptionally good job of covering area events. If the same care were extended to the coverage of student activities. the Concordiensis Arts Pages would, indeed, be excellent ones. Sincerely, Mary Carroll President of Arts Club LeAta R. Jackson Business Manager, Mountebanks Lisa Stark President of Dance Club Deni Rightmere President of U .C. Choir

.............................................................•.......................................................•.................... ~ !. FINAL EXA INATION SC EDULE !~ i Fall Term 1985-86 i • • • • : IMPORTANT; This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. : • separate schedule for Graduate Studies. and Continuing Education courses will be announced, • • and students in \Section. 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the HST 112 - Work and Workers in America - Dudden - 55 113 • : exam time for those courses. Some day courses have common exams with the evening division MER 30 - Dynamics of Linear Systems - Guntur - N 210 : e sections. Please refer to page 4 for a listing of these courses. MTH 18 - Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 3 - Zwicker - BH 106 e : Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar MTH 100 - Orthogonal Functions - Seiken - BH 104 : 8 not later than November 13, 1985. ,} MTH 101 - Advanced Calculus for Engineers - Barbanel .... BH 108 e e PHL 12 - Philosophical Problems - Kaminsky - HU 117 8 : Examinations will be .held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the ·code of the buildings PHY 131 - Electromagnetism - Newman- SH 106 : e to be used. PSC 63 - Political Parties and Interest Groups - Tidmarch - SS 014 e : PSY 10 - A First Course in Psychology, Sec. 4 - Markiewicz - PY 113 :. e AB- Arts Building HU- Humanities Building ss _Social Sciences Building SOC 10- Introduction to.Sociology, Sec. 2- Murray- SS 112 o : BH - Bailey Hall N - North Wing, 5/E Center SH _ Steinmetz; Hall SOC 128 - Sociology of Medicine - Lyng.- SS 110 :, 8 e. BU - Butterfield Hall py - Psychology Building SPN 131 - Introduction to Spanish-Americart Litera.tur' - Cisneros - HU 114 e ~ . ' . ~ : THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 21 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. MONDAY; NOVEMBER 25- 9:00-11:00 A.M. : ~ : ANT 50 - Sex Roles in comparative ·Perspective _ s. Gmelch _ SS 117 BIO 16 - Introduction to Biology I - Tobiessen, Schadler - SS 016 : -~ : ARS 33 - Introduction to History of Architecture _ Neuman de Vegvar _ AB 215 BIO 66 - Sex and Sexuality - Lambert - BH 108 : ~ 8 BIO 180 - Biochemistry - Birecka _ N 014 CER 142 - Soil Mechanics - Harlow - BU 300 . ' • ,r;; • CHM 118 - Inorganic Chemistry· II - Scaife - N 116 CHM 10 - Fundamental Chemistry I - ALL SECTIONS - BU 204 • ~ . . . . ~ e CSC 18 - Introduction to Computer Organization, Sec. 1 and 2 - Albright - BU 204 CSC 34 - Cobol and Information Process~ng - Schwarz - N 014 • ~ : CSC.l44 - Functional Programming - Wong - N 016 ECO 12 - Introduction to Economics, Sec. 1 - Kenney - SS 117 : ~ • ECO 12 - Introduction to Economics, Sec. 6 - Fried - SS 113 ECO 34 - Financial Analysis - Phaup - SS 113 e ~ • ECO 42 - Macroeconomic Theory and Policy - Schaffer - SS 112 EER 30 - System Theory I • ·~ : EGL 22 - Major American Authors - Gado - HU 112 Sec. 1 - Fatic - BU 109 : ~ • FRN 12 - Intermediate· French - Barsoum - HU 117 2 - Rudko - BH 201 • ~ : GER 12 - Intermediate German - Straif-Taylor - HU 116 ESC 30 -Mechanics of Deformable Solids, Sec. 1 - Panlilio,. Burke - .N 222 : 8 HST 65 - East Asian Civilization - Thurston - SS UO HST. 51 - Bismarck to Hitler - Hansen - SS 115 • : LLR 55 - Images of the Sea - Kaplan, B. Boyer, Schadler, Weiss, Morris - N 012 PHY 13 - Introduction to Physics II; Sec. 1 and 2 - Jones - BH 207 : • STA 110 - Introduction to Statistical Methods - Schmee - BH 203 SPN 10 - Basic Spanish I, Sec. 2 - Cisneros - HU 114 e • • • • e THURSDAY, NOVE$ER 21 - 2: 00-4:00 P.M. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 25 ... 2 : 00-4 : 00 p.M. e . . . . . . . .. : HEB 133 - Intermediate Hebrew III - Heckelman - HU 213 BIO 150 - Evolutionary Biology - J. Boyer - BH 207 : 8 MTH 10 - Calculus I CER 165 - Systems Analysis - Jewell .,. .. BU 300 : : Sec. 1- Stone- HU 114 ECO 12- Introduction to Ec?nomics, Sec. 2- Schmidt.- SS 014 0 • 2- Rosentha+- S~ 016 ECO 32- Labor and Industrial Relations- Prosper- SS.112 : • 3 - Barbanel - HU 019 EGL 11 - Strategies of Expository Writing - Hathaway - HU 119 • : 4 - Shelly - HU 115 EGL 40 - Literature of the Bible - Freund - HU 115 • e 5 - Barbanel - HU 019 ESC 1-0 - Mechanics I, Sec. 1 - Weiss - RU 106 : : 6 - Shelly - HU 115 ESC 20 - Mechanics II - Panlilio - N 116 • e MTH 12 - Calculus II ESC, 26 - Thermodynamics and Heat Transfer : : Sec. 1 - Muckenfuss - BU 204 Sec. 1 - Aubrey - N 222 . • 8 2 - Taylor - SS 115 2 - Ranganathan - N 210 : : 3 - Bick - BH 201 - FRN 10 -·Basic French I, Sec. 2 - Barsoum ..... HU 114 • 8 4 - Stone - HU 114 GEO 10 - Physical Geology - Hollocher - BU 109 : : 5 - S~iken - BH 205 GER 10 - Basic ,German I, Sec. 2 - Straif-Taylor ... HU 110 • • 6 - G1.llette - BH 104 HST 11 - Global Society - Finkelstein, Hansen - SS 010 : · e 7 - Taylor - SS 115 HST 16 - Nineteenth Century America - Dudden - SS 115 • : MTH 14 - Calculus III 1 LAT 10 - Principles of Latin I -. Sorum - HU 117 8 • Sec. 1 - Tatevossian - SS 112 . PHL 30 - Greek Philosophy - Taylor - HU 014 : : _ ~ 2 - Fairchild - BH 108 . . PHY 22 - Electronic,; Circuits - Baksay - N 016 . / • : I MT~ ~0 .-:- Otdin~ry Differential Equations . . ! . PSC 11 - Co'nte!llporar;v American POliticsJ. sec. 1 .J !~diriarc~ ... s's il3 .,. .. ~- ·: ~· ,·· .-. • . ..ec._ 1 = B1.ck - BH 2~1 . _ .. ~ ,. PSY 10 - A ,First Co~fse in Ps~chology, Sec. 1 - l!urttley -J~py 102 t -Ji·' ~~ • 2 Muckenfuss BU 204 PSY 20 - Sfatistical Methods ~n Psychology ..- Greenberg ... py 213 • e 3 - Coffey - BR 207 . . , • ~ TmTlBmAv li!O~F.R ?1 _ ?!00-~!nn 'P.JoL SOC 10 - Introduction to Sociology e ~ . - -- --- .

rt1L ..)U - l::iU U.1.4 .., : _ ~ 2- Fairchild- BH 108 · : PHY 22- El,ectronic,;Circui7s- Baksay- N 016 ... ,. ~- .- .. / ,. ,: .. , • ' MTH jQ - Ordin~ry Differential Equations ! . PSC 11 - Conte~porar;t? Amer1can Politics,· Sec. 1 .l !J:dmarc~ - SS 113 .. ~-- {l...~- ·· . • Sec·. 1 - BJ.ck - BH 201 -, PSY 10 - A ,First Cout'se in Psychology, Sec. 1 - aurttley ..;. . PY 102 ji!ij ~~ · : · - 2 - Muckenfuss - BU 204 - \ • '\ PSY 20 - SfatiStical Methods in Psychology .- Gre~nberg - ~y 213 t • • • • e 3 - Coffey - BH 207 SOC 10 - Int d · . 5 · 1 e e THURSDAY NOVEMBER 21 .... 2:00-4:00 P.M. ro uctl.on to ocJ.o ogy • e ' Sec. 1 - Lyng - SS 117 e • e MTH 40 - App-lied Linear Algebra 3 - Murray - SS 012 • · : Sec. 1 - Coffey - BH 207 SPN 133 - Mastering Written Spanish - Qualtere - HU 116 : 8 2 -Rosenthal- SS 016 ... TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 9:00-11:00 A.:M. :· : 4 - Tatevossian - SS 112 _ . . _ _ . 8: e PSY 46 - Introduction to Psychobiology - Markiewicz - py 113 ARS 7-0 - European Art from Rembrandt to Romanticism - Robbins - AB 210 e. e CSC 10 - Perspectives on Computers - G. Marten - N 012 : : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22- 9:00-11:00 A.M. CSC 12 - Programming for the Sciences- Almstead- N Q14 .. • e . EGL 19 - Major Amerifcan Authors I - Gado - HU 117 . • : ARS 10 - Introduction to the Arts - Robbins, Dellaira - AB 215 . ESC 22 - Science of Engineering Materials, Sec. 1 and 2 - Mili:tlo·- BH 207 : 0 BIO 23 - Cell Biology - Birecka, Smith - BU 019 HEB 10 - Basic Hebrew I, Sec. 1 and 2 - Heckelman - HU 112 e e BIO 51 - Ecology - George - N 116 HST 195 - Seminar: Facism and Communism - Berk .... SS 11'3 : : CER 152 - Environmental Engineering I - Snow - BU 104 MTH 146 - Advanced Calculus I, Sec.· 1 and 2 - Zimmermann - BH 201 e • ~CO 12 - Introduction to Economics, Sec. 3 - Sage -• SS 014 PHL 42 - Ethics - Baker -- HU 115 : • ECO 135 - Compara.tive Economic Systems - Reynolds - SS 113 PHY 11 - In.troduction to Physics 1 e :. EER 143 - Electromagnetic Engineering I, Sec. 1 - Fatic - BU 109 Sec. 1 - Magahiz - N 116 • e EGL 42 - Humanities I: Origins - Freund - HU 115 _ 2 - Peak - BU 204 • :. : EGL 73 -.Realism and Naturalism in American Literature - Hathaway - HU 119 3 - PilcQ.er - SH 106 It e ESC 10 - Mechanics I, Sec. 2 - Mafi - BU 106 4 - Peak - BU 204 : : ESC 30 ... Mecha~ics of Deformable Solids, Sec. 2 - Weiss - BU 300 PSY 31 - Abnormal Psychology .... Fletcher - py 113 • e GRK 10 - Princ1.ples of Greek I - Sorum ... HU 113 PSY 32 - Sensation and Perception - Foley - PY 102 : 8 HST 15 - America: Colonies to Nation - Wells - SS 117 PSY 48 - Psychotherapy I - Dowling - py 204 e : HST 30 - American Economic Development - Finkelstein - SS 110 • • HST 40 - The Crusades - Sargent - SS 112 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 26 - 2:00-4:00 p.M. : ,~ : LLR 51 - Nuclear Weapons - Martin - BH 207. . . _ e 0 e MTH 18 - Introduction to Logic and Set Theory, Sec. 2 - Niefield - BH102 AOP 08 - Precalculus Mathematics II - Yeater - :BH 102 • ~ : MTR 132 - Abstract Algebra I - Fairchild _ BH 205 ECO 12 - Introduction to Economics, Sec. 5 .... Phaup - SS 112 : a· e PHL 38 - Eastern Philosophy - Patrik - HU 114 ECO 31 - Microeconomic Anal~sis - Sage - SS 117 e -~ : PHY 14 - Elements of Modern Physics _ l1aleki _ N 016 ECO 145 - Managerial Eco~omJ.cs - Kenney - SS 113 : ~ e PSC 21 - Quantitative Methods of Social Research - Weiner - ss 010 EGL 76 - The Modern AmerJ.can Novel ..,. Gado - HU 117 e ~ e PSC 47 _ Law and Public Policy _ Baord _ ss US ESC 11 - Engineering Graphics - Harlow .... BU 300 • ~ : PSY 10 .... A First Course in Psycholo~y . FRN i48 - Re~lism and Naturalism - Thomas - HU 116 _ : ~ e sec. 2 - Calabria _ py 113 GER 10 - BasJ.c German I, Sec. 1 - Lanzi-Castaldo - HU112 • ~ : 3 - Spring _ py 102 HST 61 - Latin America in the Colonial Period ... Solnick - SS 213 : ~ • PSY 24 - Social Psychology - Fletcher - py 213 LAT 130 - Catullus and Horace - Hofmeister - HU 213 • ~· : PSY 62 _ Human Relations I _ Girdner _ py 204 LLR 15S - Health C~re Technology - Hull, Smith - BH 203 : ~ • SOC 6~ - Quantitative Methods of Social Research - Weiner - ss 010 PHL 20 - Classical Logic - Kamin~ky - HUllS 4a ~ : SPN 10 - Basic Spanish I, Sec. 1 - Qualtere - HU 110 PHY 150 - Modern ~hysics I.- Sch:-ck :-. SH 106 _ : ~ e SPN 12 ... Intermediate Spanish, Sec. 1 - Krebs - HU 112 PSC 53 - Internat1.onal PolJ..tics J..n East Asia - Thurston - SS 014 • • e RUS 133 - Intermediate Russian II - Jernakoff - HU 113 • : FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 22- 2:00-4:00 P.M. SOC-39- Sociology of the Family- Kaplan- SS 115. . : e. SOC 153 - Sociology of the Handicapped - Weiner - SS 110 • e AOP 02 - Introduction to Chemistry II - Enokian - BH 102 • : ARS 74 - Classical Art and Architecture - Neuman de Vegvar - AB 210 ' WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 27 - 9:00-11:00 A.:f1. I e BIO 32 - Biology of Vertebrates - Butterstein - BU 109 • • :RIO 53 - Forests of the Northeast - Tobiessen _ BU 300 ACC 10 - Financial Accounting I, Sec. 1 and 2 - Hurley - BH 207 : : BIO 138 - Modern Parasitology - Styles - BH 205 ANT 11 - Comparing Cultures through Film - G. Gmelch - SS 115 e • CHM 15 - Chemistry of Things - Sowa - N 012 CHM 30 - Organic Chemistry I • • . 1 • e CHM 152 - Physical Chemistry II - Hayes - N 016 Sec. - McGahey - SS 016 a • CLS 21 -. History of Greece - Tober - HU 019 2 - Quaal - SS 016 : : CLS 24 - Classical Art and Architecture - Neuman de Vegvar - AB 210 CSC 37 - Structured Prog1;amming, Sec. 1· and 2 - Hannay - N 014 e e CSC 11 - Programming for the Social Sciences - _ Castieberry - N 014 EER 33 - Electrical Circuit Analysis and Design, Sec. 1 and 2 - Hassib - BU 204 8 : ECO 12 - Introduction to Economics, Sec. 4 - Motahar - SS 117 ESC 41 - Electric Circuits : & EER 143 - Electromagnetic Engineering I, _Sec. 2- Mallick- BH 203 Sec. 1 - Cha~g- BH 108 : : ELL 49 - Nuclear Technology - Shanebrook - N 222 2 - Cra~g - BH 201 8 e ESC 18 - Introduction to Digital Computers - Itani - BU 204 PSC 12 - Contemporary International Politics - Klunk - SS 113 e • • • e ESC 42 - Signals and Systems - Chang - BU 106 THE FOLLOWING COURSE HAS A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION: e o FRN 131 - Introduction to French Literature - Coppay - HU 110 _ . • e GER 131- Goethe's Faust_ Warde_ HU 116 · WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 20- 4:30-:-6:30 p.m. e ;p . . . ~ e HST 26 - United States in the World Arena - Jonas .-. SS 115 CSC 131 - Introduction to Compilers - Williams - BH 201 e ~ ............................................................•.............••••••.........••••.•......................•...................• - .., 6 '

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November 7,1985 THE ARTS Royal Winnipeg Ballet By KAREN STASH Contributor On Tuesday, October 29, Canada's Royal Winnepeg Ballet performed an extensive repertoire which included both classical and contemporary works. The first of their works, \Pas De Deux,\ was a classical storyless ballet choreographed by the well known George Balanchine. It encompassed many classical maneuvers, but it had a touch of uniqueness, a strong Hungarian flavor. The start of the piece was a bit rough, but once the dancers got in motion, the ballet went smoothly. This piece allowed each dancer to show his-her style. Individual dances were done by two dancers or one dancer at a time, and they were lively, precise, and well timed. Andre Lewis and Sarah Slipper of Canada's Royal Winnipeg Ballet performed at Proctor's on Tuesday, October 29. FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: THIS WEEKEND DOUBLE FEATURE 7:00and 10:00 Fri., Sat., Sun. SS016 Admission-$1.00 'l'i. ,,Jt ,..,h-+tM If{ P' ~i-t AJki , ....... ...-r£-. ~~· -:.-.:;.\\-== ..-_~. Fl LM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: Tuesday 7, 9, 11 Admission- $1.00 Nov. 13 55016 * It's ~ *College * ¥Night! * All-American Music * All-American Bu11et * * * * .All-American Fun * iC * * $.75 Drinks with your College ID * * * Blue Jeans and Casual AHire are Suggested * ..._ Plenty of FREE Parking * ~ For Adults 19 & Over at The ALBANY HILTON State & Lodge S~reets • 462-6~11 The second work, \Adagietto made a drastic mood change from the many bright dancers te a sultry,. romantic duet. The stage was dimmed and all attention was on a pair of dancers ·who per· formed an intense, passionate piece, Abstract moves told the story of affection and ten- derness of two lovers as they moved Slowly and gracefully around the stage. After intermission, the mood changed again. ''Translucent . Tones\ told a story of a dif- ferent kind. Not until the entire piece was over did one realize just exactly what was being portrayed. Delicate, tran- slucent outfits of light yellow and oranges accompanied by slow moves started the piece. As the dance progressed, darker and darker shades of colors of red, then blue and purple lil.ppeared; and the dancing became more intense. Rondos (answer and call) moves were incorporated; and fights and forgivenesses also increased as the piece progressed. This iill led to a dramatic and intense build-up and grand finale of all the dancers on stage at once. The final dance and climax of the evening done by the Royal Winnepeg Ballet was entitled \Symphony in D.'' This humorous dance included almost every hackneyed ballet cliche. For instance, one dancer would kick another, dancers would trip one another, or one dancer would be out of step with all the others. Perhaps the funniest surprise was to see one of the male dancers fly through the air and be caught by some of the female dancers. Surprises such as this were abundant throughout the dance and made for quite a hilarious finish to the show. Overall, the Royal Winnepeg Ballet did a clean performance with enough variety to keep the audience entertained. Next at Proctor's will be \Funny Feet\ by the American Ballet Comedy. This should prove to be entertainment for all ballet lovers and non-ballet lovers alike. They are arriving in Schenectady on November 8 at 8 p.m. with twenty-five trunks of costumes and eight dancers. Just to give a taste of their style, I will give a list of a few of their dances to be per- formed: ''Duet for Mating Organisms,\ \Black Cockroach Pas de Deux,\ and \Pas de Trois las Psychologie Con- temporaine.'' This should be an entertaining evening of mime and comedy, and an evening where every classical idea Jf ballet will be disproved. ~WRUC­ SCHEN:ECTADY .. 89.7 fm ST£Rl0 • •TH£ FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ It's the WRUC Top 8.97-the listing that makes Casey Kasem stop and say, ''But I've never heard . of these bands.\ However, as everyone whose anyone knows, these were· the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. Request your favorite new music at 370-6151 and actually influence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album 1. TheAlarm -·2. The Cure 3. PrefabSprout 4. Dream Academy 5. Thompson Twins 6. 10,000 Maniacs 7. Marshall Crenshaw 8. KateBush 8.97 Hoodoo Gurus Label LastWeek Strength--IFU5--1 The Head On the Door-Elekta- Two Wheels Good-Epic-4 WB-- Here's To Future Days-Arista-5 The Wishing CHair-Elektra-6 'Little Wild One'-W.tr- Hounds of Love-Capitol--7 ·Mars Needs Guitars-Big Time-- Program Notes Tune in to JAZZ on WRUC every week day from 1 to 4 p.m .... Win tickets to upcoming shows at J.B.'s theatre including the John Valby, Southside Johnny ... A track from each WRUC Top 8.97 Album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director Movie Review: To Live and Die in L.A. By ARTS STAFF To Live and Die in L.A., which premiered at Crossgates Mall Cinema last Tuesday, is a slick, fast-paced film which will delight both Rambo and MTV fanatics alike. This exciting flick, made by William Friedkin, the director of the unforgettable film The French Connection is filled with thrilling images and twists in the action which bring audible gasps from the audience. Indeed, the film which cen- ters around a United States Secret SerViceman's obsessed tracking of the ruthless coun- terfeiter who murdered his partner, is at its. best with its flashy, eye-catching shootouts and car chases, set to riveting rock music. It is the music, composed and arranged by the Wang Chang twosome, which helps salvage this movie. The plot itself is un- derdeveloped and superficial, though not wholly lacking in interest. The viewer spends the first forty-five minutes of the film trying to put together what is happening. When Eric Masters kills a federal agent whom he catches snooping into his lucrative counterfeiting factory, the protagonist, Richard Chance, played by William Petersen, undertakes a personal crusade to avenge his best friend's gruesome slaughter. Along the way, he unwittingly kills an FBI agent, and by the end is so corrupted by his sheer hatred for Master, he is practically unrecognizable from the kid brotherish, rookie Secret Serviceman who saved none other than Ronald Reagan from an Islamic fanatic assassin at the start of the film. Difficult, unrealistic storylines aside, the character development is even weaker. The only character with whom it is even remotely worth identifying gets blown to bits in the first ten minutes of the film. After that, the hero goes on to develop the character depth of say, the Marlboro Man. Oddly, the villain; portrayed with coldly terrifying accuracy by Willem Dafoe, is the most comprehensible of any character in the movie. This is no doubt due to Dafoe's acting ability, as well as the director's preoccupation with pure evil and total corruption. What this movie lacks is feeling. By the end, the per- vasive violence becomes almost gratuitous and loses nearly all of its impact. Friedkin has directed a movie that is very distant and utterly cold. To Live and Die in L.A. makes Dirty Harry look like a. Disney film. Ultimately, the plot and theme are obliterated by the package-a combination of rock video, car chases and bloody murder scenes. Viewers who are looking for something beyond occasionally exciting scenes will probably be disappointed. - .... ' . - ·- A ( fro cot evE nig ·for nol pa1 thE he< sn; An pe jw th pr Sa an cr pe th ja w~ ja SE di in ot pl E w ci J, S]

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 THE ARTS Royal Winnipeg Ballet By KAREN STASH Contributor On Tuesday, October 29, Canada's Royal Winnepeg Ballet performed an extensive repertoire which included both classical and contemporary works. The first of their works, \Pas De Deux,\ was a classical storyless ballet choreographed by the well known George \0 > t1J a >- .0 0 0 ..c a. Balanchine. It encompassed many classical maneuvers, but it had a touch of uniqueness, a strong Hungarian flavor. The start of the piece was a bit rough, but once the dancers got in motion, the ballet went smoothly. This piece all. owed each dancer to show his-her style. Individual dances were done by two dancers or one dancer at a time, and they were lively, precise, and well timed. Andre Lewis and Sarah Slipper of Canada's Royal Winnipeg Ballet performed at Proctor's on Tuesday, October 29. Fl LM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: THIS WEEKEND DOUBLE FEATURE 7:00and 10:00 Fri., Sat., Sun. 55016 Admission-$1.00 1J;~~,...t1 ~b-1' ;{{I~ ........ - .AIIIIIIr.. • 1 riM'-. .... ....... -·- r~ _R\\:ot.!J· ... \\v-- ...-. FILM COMMITTEE PRESENTS: Tuesday 7,9, 11 Admission- $1.00 * Nov. 13 SS016 It's i'- *College :+Night! * All-American Music * All-American Buffet * * * All-American Fun ·* iC * * * $. 75 Drinks with your College ID * lt- * Blue Jeans and Casual Attire are Suggested * * Plenty of FREE Parking * For Adults 19 & Over at The ALBANY Hll TON State & Lodge Streets • 462-6611 The secoad work, \Adagietto made a drastic mood change from the many bright dancers te a sultry, romantic duet. The stage was dimmed and all attention was on a pair of dancers who per- formed aN intense, passienate piece. Abstract moves told the story of affection and ten- derness of two lovers as they moved slowly and gracefully around the stage. After intermission, the mood changed again. \Translucent . Tones\ told a story of a dif- ferent kind. Not until the entire piece was over did one realize just exactly what was being portrayed. Delicate, tran- slucent outfits of light yellow and oranges accompanied by slow moves started the piece. As the dance progressed, darker and darker shades of colors of red, then blue and purple appeared; and the dancing became more intense. Rondos (answer and call) moves were incorporated; and fights and forgivenesses also increased as the piece progressed. This all led to a dramatic and intense build-up and grand finale of all the dancers on stage at once. The final dance and climax of the evening done by the Royal Winnepeg Ballet was entitled \Symphony in D.\ This humorous dance included almost every hackneyed ballet cliche. For instance, one dancer would kick another, dancers would trip one another, or one dancer would be out of step with all the others. Perhaps the funniest surprise was to see one of the male dancers fly through the air and be caught by some of the female dancers. Surprises such as this were abundant throughout the dance and made for quite a hilarious finish to the show. Overall, the Royal Winnepeg Ballet did a clean performance with enough variety to keep the audience entertained. Next at Proctor's will be \Funny Feet\ by the American Ballet Comedy. This should prove to be entertainment for all ballet lovers and non-ballet lovers alike. They are arriving in Schenectady on November 8 at 8 p.m. with twenty-five trunks of costumes and eight dancers. Just to give a taste of their style, I will give a list of a few of their dances to be per- formed: \Duet for Mating Organisms,\ \Black Cockroach Pas de Deux,\ and \Pas de Trois las Psychologie Con- temporaine.\ This should be an entertaining evening of mime and comedy, and an evening where every classical idea .Jf ballet will be disproved. ~WRUC­ SCH:ENECTADY 119.7 fm STERG:O - •THE FIRST iTAT!Oft IN THE NATION\ It's the WRUC Top 8.97-the listing that makes Casey Kasem stop and say, ''But I've never heard of these bands.\ However, as everyone whose anyone knows, these were the most frequently played albums this past week on WRUC. Request your favorite new music at 370-6151 and actually influence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album 1. TheAlarm 2. TheCure 3. Prefab Sprout 4. Dream Academy 5. Thompson Twins 6. 10,000 Maniacs 7. Marshall Crenshaw 8. KateBush 8.97 Hoodoo Gurus Label Last Week Strength-IRS-1 The Head On the Door-Elekta- Two Wheels Good-Epic-4 WE- Here's To Future Days-Arista-5 The Wishing CHair-Elektra---6 'Little Wild One'-Wi:r Hounds of Love-Capitol-7 Mars Needs Guitars-Big Time- Program Notes Tune in to JAZZ on WRUC every week day from 1 to 4 p.m. . . . Win tickets to upcoming shows at J.B.'s theatre including the John Valby, Southside Johnny . . . A track from each WRUC Top 8.97 Album is counted down every Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, Music Director Movie Review: To Live and Die in L.A. By ARTS STAFF To Live and Die in L.A., which premiered at Crossgates Mall Cinema last Tuesday, is a slick, fast-paced film which will delight both Rambo and MTV fanatics alike. This exciting flick, made by William Friedkin, the director of the unforgettable film The French Connection is filled with thrilling images and twists in the action which bring audible gasps from the audience. Indeed, the film which cen- ters around a United States Secret Serviceman's obsessed tracking of the ruthless coun- terfeiter who murdered his partner, is at its best with its flashy, eye-catching shootouts and car chases, set to riveting rock music. It is the music, composed and arranged by the Wang Chang twosome, which helps salvage this movie. The plot itself is un- derdeveloped and superficial, though not wholly lacking in interest. The viewer spends the first forty-five minutes of the CCMJN(r- SCC>N·· · film trying to put together what is happening. When Eric Masters kills n federal agent whom he catches snooping into his lucrative counterfeiting factory, the protagonist, Richard Chance, played by William Petersen, undertakes a personal crusade to avenge his best friend's gruesome slaughter. Along the way, he unwittingly kills an FBI agent, and by the end is so corrupted by his sheer hatred for Master, he is practically unrecognizable from the kid brotherish, rookie Secret Serviceman who saved none other than Ronald Reagan from an Islamic fanatic assassin at the start of the film. Difficult, unrealistic storylines aside, the character development is even weaker. The only character with whom it is even remotely worth identifying gets blown to bits in the first ten minutes of the film. After that, the hero goes on to develop the character depth of say, the Marlboro Man. Oddly, the villain, portrayed with coldly terrifying accuracy by Willem Dafoe, is the most comprehensible of any character in the movie. This is no doubt due to Dafoe's acting ability, as well as the director's preoccupation with pure evil and total corruption. What this movie lacks is feeling. By the end, the per- vasive violence becomes almost gratuitous and loses nearly all of its impact. Friedkin has directed a movie that is very distant and utterly cold. To Uve and Die in L.A. makes Dirty Harry look like a Disney film. Ultimately, the plot and theme are obliterated by the package-a combination of rock video, car chases and bloody murder scenes. Viewers who are looking for something beyond occasionally exciting scenes will probably be disappointed. - - - Oc fron - coul eve1 nigl fore nor1 par' thei he a sna An peo jus1 the pro Sar an< cro per the jar: wo jar 1 se1 di:: im otl pl~ E\ w~ cit Jo sp ,, I 1 '

' . CONCOR[)IENSIS, N()vember 7y 1985 Page 13 An evening of Sam· Shepard .... A Night at The Nott ' By CARAT ABACK Contributor October· 31st l walked back from the Nott Memorial and could not say one word. Not even the .freezing :aaUoween night temperatures, which were ·forcing ~hildren all over the northeast to complain to their parents about having to cover their Rambo costumes with heavy winter jackets, could snap me out of the daze I was in. An audience of arotind twenty people inCluding myself, had just witnessed opening night of the Mountebank's . fall production of \An Evening of · Sam Shepard: Selected Works and Cowboy Mouth.\ While the crowd was disappointipg; the performance was far from it; the cast and crew put on a show jampacked with talent and hard work but most of all with jarring emotional impact. The evening began with a series of monologues and dialogues or rather a .series of images superimposed on each other by the admirably sax; playing of Scott Remillard. Every few minutes the audience was cast into a different set of circumstances from newcomer Joe Suhrada's captivating and spine--tingling presentation of \Certain Thoughts\ to Steven Brown's and Constanc.e Maroulis's enticing charac- terization of \Advertisements\ and then of. unrequited love in \Tuesday Weld.\ Jinl Cristo depicted a scene so vivid in \Mr. and Mrs. Sizzler\ that the only word to describe it is in fact, siz~ling. Raspy-voiced Melinda Phillip~J'S portrayal in \Letter From a Cold Killer\ made everyone peer over their shoulders more than just once and Rachel 1 Anpe Elfenbein countered this feeling With her artistic innocence in \Shrapnel Scar.•J The 'audience felt a full gamut of li:lmotions evoked by this wonqetful troupe of. per- formers tliat were able to paint pictures so clear that Nonnan Rockwell would have had dif- ficulty competing with them. The ne:x:t thing I knew I became fully submerged in the· lives of a young aspiring rock performer, Slim, played by Michael Hiller and his in- spirational manager and lover Cavale, played by Anne Carl. Director Lora Nelson deserves ·much credit and the hit the nail on the head when she cast these · two actors. Anne Carl has an ex- traordinary quality of being able to make the audience laugh -Works by Brahms, Messiaen and Schikele will be on the program when the Cascade Soloists perform in Schenectady Museum/Union College Concert Series on Nov. 15. The concert will be held at 8 p.m. in Union's Memorial Chapel. Tickets are priced at $8. gThe Cascade Soloists are visiting the Capital District for the first time. Called ''four of America's most gifted musicians,\ they are David Shifrin, clarinet; William Dopp- man, piano; Ik-Hwan Bae, violin; and Warren Lash, cello. This yeat also marks their New York debut as a group. Shifrin is currently prinCipal clarinet of the famed Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra and music director of Chamber Music Northwest, and has appeared with the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Pittsburgh Symphony, and orchestras overseas. Doppman is both pianist and composer and was recently a recipient of the prestigious Leventritt Award. He has appeared internationally as a soloist with over 60 orchestras and has recorded for the Columbia, CRI, DG, Nonesuch and RCA labels. Korean-born lk-Hwan Bae won second prize in the 1985.~Queen Elisabeth of Belgium Competition and as a result, will be per- forming more than 30 concerts in Europe this season. A noted chamber player, 'he is currently music director of Bargemusic in New Y.ork and records regularly for Vanguard and RCA labels.'gWarren,Lash bas appeared as a solo cellist more than 100 times with major orchestras across the country and is a frequent guest with such ensembles as the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center anQ, the Gaillard Ensemble. Reviewed in concert during the summer, the group was described as g~ving a ''virtuosic and sympathetic in• terpretation.\ \The playing was attractive and flattering to the music,\ the Portland Oregonian said, and indicated the group ''concluded the concert with a rich-hued version Brahms trio.\ Tickets may be obtained by contacting the Schenectady Museum at ( 528) 382-7890. Tickets are also on sale at Community · Box Offices. Spectacular sm. Fashions 10% Student Discount Along with om incredible selection of the finest alpine and cross country ski equipment, we carry the area's largest · selection of designer ski fashions. · Top name fasbioos for men, ~n & children on sale now. It's Qne thing to ski like a pro, but quite .another to lOOk like one. Come in and see us now! 346-7293 1901' State St SChenectady ·one minute and cry with her the next; her perionnance was at its prime, Amid a drmn set, amplifiers, a mattress,. strewn garbage, clothing, beer bottles and her stuffed pet hawk named . Raymond, sne moved with full control over her surroundings. She was reminiscent of Janis Joplin, Anne was so totally absorbed in her character that she completely lost the audience in it as well. The pair of Anne Carl and Michael Hiller complemented each other as stannaker and prodigal star. Michael IJ:iller was most definitely a star born in the eyes of· his viewers. Altl\ough in the play' Slim . struggles with becoming a famous rock musician, Michael .succeeded in becoming an actor worthy of much recognition. Sometimes he was submissive to.Cavale's power over him, as the character called for, but at other times he let out such force that even Johnny Ace could probably have heard him. Michael Hiller's Slim was an energetic and touching character. One sympathized with him as he crooned to Cavale to ten him a story ;;~nd one a1so thanked him for reieasing some of the tension, felt not only by Slim but also by the audience, through his purging drum and guitar playing. . The lobster man played by Tom Riebel must also be commended for his humocous portrayal which turne.d star- tlingly bold in the last scene. A review of his production would not be complete without large credit going to Dan Lindy who was responsible for not only original music, but also the music direction. In the play cavale says, \We all need a saint with a cowboy's mouth to get off on when we can't get off on ourselves.\ These people with their (presentation of) Cowboy Mouth are to be congratulated and to shown the audiences they deserve--01uch more than twenty people a show. So please try and get to see this amazing show-it will give you an evening of entertainment and a bundle of images to ponder. ARTS The Reggae Band, Mankaya performed in Old Chapel on Friday, Nov. l to a large crowd. The· evening was free <lf charge, with beverages and lots of dancing. Jazz..; Fusion By BRIAN McKINSEY Contributor Few people are familiar with the jazz-fusion band Shadowfax. However, those that are and were in attendance last Friday evening were treated to a slick performance at R.P.I. 's West Auditorium. The quaint theatre provided just the right am- biance for this sextet out of Chicago. Although the turnout was relatively small, Shadowfax's performance was nothing less than big. It is not fair to the band to try and describe their music in words. Shadowfax is a unique band that must be listened to in order to appreciate. Some describe their sound as progressive--rock, while others insist that it lies closer to jazz. Most of Shadowfax's music is very light and airy, which fills the listener}s head with distant. images and dreams. Many different melodies are ern- . ployed to demonstrate the diversibility as' well as the talent of each musician. Each member is an ac- complished studio musician who rarely performs live. C'..onsidering this, one would wonder how they perform together as a group. In this case, the whole is definitely greater than the sum of the parts. Shad<lWfl;lX is a thoroughly professional band in their delivery and sound of music. At no time were any of the members lost or out of beat for any of the S()ngs. The sound, as a whole, was very tight and created different moods for each song. One reason why the concert was so enjoyable has to be the fact that Shadowfax sounds as good, if not better in concert as they do on disc. They are one of tbef.ew bands who do not lose anything in their music when they plug into power amps and release · their energy through loudspeakers. Every nuance that is heard on album was actually felt in concert. Some may have felt, that at ninety minutes, the show was on the short side. However, it was an intense ninety minutes as Shadowfax played cuts from all four of their albums. The highlight .of the show had to be the encore. Titled only as a piece \From hDme\ (Chicago), the band jammed a hard- driving, swift tune that was blues, jazz and rock con1bined into one. This was the supreme end to such a delightful per- formance. Sbadowfax has broke the barrier on \live\ sound; that which is overly distorted or too loud. Now only if others would f()llow in the footstep's of these professionals. '- (!) .0 ::::> !... ~ (!) > 10 0 ;::.. .0 .E 0 .c: c. .... ;

I i I , ~ . ;:1 I i I;· ~ I ~ ) '' ,. f (j I ., ; 1 CONCORDIENSJS, November 7, 1985 Page l3 ARTS An evening of Sam Shepard •.• A Night at The Nott ByCARATABACK Contributor October 31st I walked back from the Nott Memorial and could not say one word. Not even the freezing Halloween night temperatures, which were forcing children all aver the northeast to complain to their parents about having to cover their Rambo costumes with heavy winter jackets, could snap me out of the daze I was in. An audience of arot.ind twenty people including myself, had just witnessed opening night of the Mountebank's fall production of \An. Eveni.Rg of Sam Shepard: Selected Works and Cowboy Mouth.\ While the crowd was disappointing, the performance was far from it; the cast and crew put on a show jampacked with talent and hard work but most of all with jarring emotional impact. The evening began with a series of monologues and dialogues or rather a series of ilnages superilnposed on each other by the admirably sax playing of Scott Remillard. Every few minutes the audience was cast into a different set of circwnstances from newcomer Joe Suhrada's captivating and spine-tingling presentation of \Certain Thoughts\ to Steven Brown's and Constance Maroults's enticing charac- terization of \Advertisements\ and then of unrequited love in \Tuesday Weld.\ Jim Cristo depicted a scene so vivid in \Mr. and Mrs. Sizzler\ that the only word to describe it is in fact, sizzling. Raspy-voiced Melinda Phillips's portrayal in \Letter From a Cold Killer\ made everyone peer over their shoulders more than just once and Rachel, Anne Elfenbein countered this feeling with her artistic innocence in \Shrapnel Scar.\ The audience felt a full gamut of emotions evoked by this wonderful troupe of per- formers that were able to paint pictures so clear that Norman Rockwell would have had dif- ficulty competing with them. The next thing I knew I became fully submerged in the lives of a young aspiring rock performer, Sliln, played by Michael Hiller and his in- spirational manager and lover Cavale, played by Anne Carl. Director Lora Nelson deserves much credit and the hit the nail on the head when she cast these · two actors. Anne Carl has an ex- traordinary quality of being able to make the audience laugh -Works by Brahms, Messiaen and Schikele will be on the program when the Cascade Soloists perform in Schenectady Museum/Union College Concert Series on Nov. 15. The concert will be held at 8 p.m. in Union's Memorial Chapel. Ti'ckets are priced at $8. gThe Cascade Soloists are visiting the Capital District for the first time. Called \four of America's most gifted musicians,\ they are David Shifrin, clarinet; William Dopp- man, piano; Ik-Hwan Bae, violin; and Warren Lash, cello. This year also marks their New York debut as a group. Shifrin is currently principal clarinet of the famed Los Angeles Chamber Orchestra and music director of Chamber Music Northwest, and has appeared with the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Pittsburgh Symphony, and orchestras overseas. Doppman is both pianist and composer and was recently a recipient of the prestigious Leventritt Award. He has appeared internationally as a soloist with over 60 orchestras and has recorded for the Columbia, CRI, DG, Nonesuch and RCA labels. Korean-born Ik-Hwan Bae won second prize in the 1985 Queen Elisabeth of Belgium Competition and as a result, will be per- forming more than 30 concerts in Europe this season. A noted chamber player, he is currently music director of Bargemusic in New York and records regularly for Vanguard and RCA labels. 'gWarren Lash has appeared as a solo cellist more than 100 times with major orchestras across the country and is a frequent guest with such ensembles as the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and the Galliard Ensemble. Reviewed in concert during the swnmer, the group was described as giving a \virtuosic and sympathetic in- terpretation.\ \The playing was attractive and flattering to the music,\ the Portland Oregonian said, and indicated the group \concluded the concert with a rich-hued version Brahms trio.\ Tickets may be obtained by contacting the Schenectady Museum at ( 528) 382-7890. Tickets are also on sale at Community · Box Offices. Spectacular SRi Fashions 10% Student Discount Along with our incredible selection of the finest alpine and cross country ski equipment, \Ne carry the area's largest selection of designer ski fashions. · Top name fashions for men, women & children on sale now. It's one thing to ski like a pro, but quite another to look like one. Come in and see us now! 346-7293 1901 State St Schenectady ·one minute and cry with her the next; her performance was at its prilne. Amid a drum set, amplifiers, a mattress, strewn garbage, clothing, beer bottles and her stuffed pet hawk named . Raymond, she moved with full control over her surroundings. She was reminiscent of Janis Joplin. Anne was so totally absorbed in her character that she completely lost the audience in it as well. The pair of Anne Carl and Michael Hiller complemented each other as starmaker and prodigal star. Michael Hiller was most definitely a star born in the eyes of his viewers. Although in the play Sliln struggles with becoming a famous rock musician, Michael succeeded in becoming an actor worthy of much recognition. Sometimes he was submissive to Cavale's power over him, as the character called for, but at other times he let out such force that even Johnny Ace could probably have heard him. Michael Hiller's Slim was an energetic and touching character. One sympathized with him as he crooned to Cavale to tell him a story and one also thanked him for releasing some of the tension, felt not only by Slim but also by the audience, through his purging drum and guitar playing. The lobster man played by Tom Hiebel must also be commended for his humorous portrayal which turned star- tlingly bold in the last scene. A review of his production would not be complete without large credit going to Dan Lindy who was responsible for not only original music, but also the music direction. In the play Cavale says, \We all need a saint with a cowboy's mouth to get off on when we can't get off on ourselves.\ These people with their (presentation of) Cowboy Mouth are to be congratulated and to shown the audiences they deserve-much more than twenty people a show. So please try and get to see this amazing show-it will give you an evening of entertainment and a bundle of images to ponder. The Reggae Band, Man!<aya performed in Old Chapel on Friday, Nov. 1 to a large crowd. The evening was free of charge, with beverages and lots of dancing. Jazz-Fusion By BRIAN McKINSEY Contributor Few people are familiar with the jazz-fusion band Shadowfax. However, those that are and were in attendance last Friday evening were treated to a slick performance at R.P.I. 's West Auditorium. The quaint theatre provided just the right am- biance for this sextet out of Chicago. Although the turnout was relativ~ly small, Shadowfax's performance was nothing less than big. It is not fair to the band to try and describe their music in words. Shadowfax is a unique band that must be listened to in order to appreciate. Some describe their sound as progressive-rock, while others insist that it lies closer to jazz. Most of Shadowfax's music is very light and airy, which fills the listener's head with distant images and dreams. Many different melodies are em- ployed to demonstrate the diversibility as well as the talent of each musician. Each member is an ac- complished studio musician who rarely performs live. Considering this, one would wonder how they perform together as a group. In this case, the whole is definitely greater than the sum of the ., parts. Shadowfax is a thoroughly professional band in their delivery and sound of music. At no time were any of the members lost or out of beat for any of the .songs. The sound, as a whole, was very tight and created different moods for each song. One reason why the concert was so enjoyable has to be the fact that Shadowfax sounds as good, if not better in cuncert as they do on disc. They are one of the few bands who do not lose anything in their music when they plug into power amps and release their energy through loudspeakers. Every nuance that is heard on album was actually felt in concert. Some may have felt, that at ninety minutes, the show was on the short side. However, it was an intense ninety minutes as Shadowfax played cuts from all four of their albums. The highlight of the show had to be the encore. Titled only as a piece \From home\ (Chicago), the band jammed a hard- driving, swift tW1e that was blues, jazz and rock combined into one. This was the supreme end to such a delightful per- formance. Shadowfax has broke the barrier on \live\ sound; that which is overly distorted or too loud. Now only if others would follow in the footstep's of these professionals. ·· ~~=JfJ::or=J:rl~ work and Cowboy .. Nov.ember 7-ll_;,.The Playboy of the Western World, capital Rep. Market Theatre~ 462-4531. · Nov~mber Sii·· 9, 15-17, 2~~Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dream- coot, S1ena Co .. ege, 8.p.m. 783-2527. · November l~What the Butler Saw, Capital Rep. Market Theatre 462- 4131. . . . . NtJvember 8-Am<trican Ballet Comedy. Proctor's Theatre. 8 p.m. 382--1083. . N.,ve:mber 9-.J~n Lu.c Ponty. Proetor~s Theatre. 8 p.m. Tickets at Student .. Activities :Srox Office. . · .... (]) .n ;:) .... (.!) (]) > ro 0 > .n 0 - 0 I::. 0.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 * The Latest Vldeosl * The Hottest .Music! • * The Place to Bel Where the Party Never Stops! PLUS: Saturdays Between 9 PM · 10 PM the 1st 50 Ladies Can Enjoy .OPEN BAR! Plenty of FREE Parking for Adults 19 & Over. at the ALBANY HILTON State & lodge Streets • 462-661,1 ....... '\ .......................... ··-· ... ·-· ........ •·•·• ........ ' . ' ' : PRESTO COIN :LAUNDRY : and • : DRY CLlANING · • • i *STUDENT SPECIALS* : • • .: *.FREE WASH* ! • : (Use 1 Washer : : Get 2nd FREE!!) : • • : 8-9:00Mon.-Fri. : : 8-8:00Sat.·Sun. : : 2009 Broadway 381-4243 : • • • Broadview Plaza- Schenectady : =•••••••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·•••••••••• $~ .9u •• ~ ~'~ PIZZI • ~ UYIOU ... :;oo (J, .. - _\\. $PACIEm I PIZZERIA I PHONES: 372-7270 370-3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORCER!S TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN A-NTWERP RO. SCHENECTADY, N.Y. - PAISA MIS£8 - 1&3 Ja1 St., S~t.'dr- .lldl•l•porta - Jl7 .. 717J ~--- ' . ering in coupo~· ---... Complete Boutique Dresses, Skirts, Tops, Pe~Rts, Brass Gitts · Jewelry, Wicker, Gifts, Tapestries, Etc:. Open MOR.-Fri. I0:00-6:00op,m •. •-Thurs. 10:00 a.m.-9:00p.m. Also accepting American Express PE·RSONAL CH'E·CKS ACCEPTED LAY-AWAY • We will hold your·purchase with a small! deposit We Also Do Alterations SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT \ HAPPEN. Located on corner of Broadway & Ha-milton S.t. 38~-7956- Student Discoun.ts STUDENT SPECIALS with Tere~a, Marcie and Gari onlv! * We carry a full line of Nexus and Sebasttan hair care products. 25% off rE!Itail with student I D. ~-==='------ - We're looking for Go farther.~. - - As a Marine Officer, you could be in charge of a Mach 2+ F/A-18A, a vertical take-off Harrier or one of our other jets or helicopters. And you could do it by the time you're 23. But it takes a special commitment on your part. We demand leaders at · all levels. We teach you to be one. If you're a freshman or sophomore·, ask about our un dergraduate officer · faster. . . ... commissiomng pr- . ograms •. If you're a junior, check out our graduate·. programs. Starting salaries are from $17,000 to $23,000. And you can COJJnt on going farther . • • faster. \ ~ -- . - --- ----- ..... -::-.::-~_:. ________......._ ::_-.:_·::...\'::\.:--- ) i \ ' •

\ . • CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 J7UY!~. ·. ····· . . . . . jJ:ilt ?y!t . ~At_.Yt~W ·~etllltte-/ . • · /..1f Ill be YtJHI' ''JJfat $~ 11 15% Discount with Hcllircut /Desig.n .Perms Colour Facials Nail Lengthening Waxing Make .. up Pedicure Union ID card and 10% Discount with Ad Offer expires Nov. 21st Our designers have b~en trained by. SASSOON of London and J\INGLES~ N!\Y .C. Gooding Skin Systems 322 State St., Schenectady, N.Y. 1230 UNION BEVERAGE CORP. 1701 UNION STREET (Next To McDonalds) HOURS: MON. thru. SAT. 9 to 9, SUN. 12 to 5 p.m. ' V2 KEG BUSCH 38 . 2-.5· .9,58 w. ,_tho right to limit quoanttt~M. Not rospenalble few typognaphlcal ...,.... $27.50 Y2 KEG BUD $33.00 OPEN FOR BUSINESS Watch For Our Grand Opening Coming Soon/ HEINEKEII .LIGHT OR· DARK PIELS .EXPORT 5.39c ... 13.99a. BUD EXPORTS l0.39eu. DRAFT BEER Halves & Quarten Available .. Also Ice! Plenty of Fr .. Parking MILLER EXPORTS 9.99ease Page 15 PAPA CICCO'S COMPAREANDSAVE!! PIZZA WE DELIVER FREE 374-4332 Round 16\ or 8 cut Pizza (Incl. Tax.) PAPA CICCO'S DOMINO'S CAPPELLO'S THE STATION $5.06 $6.75 $6.12 $6.40 Each Topping $1.00 $) .25 $1.07 $1.00. Prices are for a Pizza Delivered to Union College! COLLECT OUR COUPONS AND SAVE THEM FOR ~REE PIZZA OR BEER BUY·THE BEST PIZZA FREE 32 oz. SO:DAS EVERY SUNDAY ATTHENESTPRICE! with purchase of $5.00 or ~ore \Not Just Your Average Pizza Place\ To CAPPELLO'S Come In - Try Our Pizza! Breakfast- Lunch - Dinner r---------~-----~--------~--------------~ $1.00 l $1.00 OFF l ··O· • .. ff : ON All 8_-12-2.4 CUT PIZZA : a With This Coupon • I I -CALL US: ~R~' DELIVERY : Expire$ Dec. 30 :. L----~••••·---•--·---••··--------·••••••'1 TEt.#J46•J155~ . .. 403 UN\ON ST.- . ~ Tr.y Our Pastas, Cah:ones Hot· & Cold Italian Subs) Buffalo Chicken Wings - NeAR u~ \ON Cott.EG-t- -~

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Nor~mb_er 7, 1985 SCHOLARSHIPS -Delta Delta Delta an- nounces its forty-third Service Projects Scholarship com- petition. Competition is open to all full-time undergraduate women not yet in the senior year. Winners of local $500 awards are · eligible for con- sideration for four $1,000 national Zoe Gore Perrin scholarships. Applicants for 1986 awards: submit ap- plication form to the Director of Financial Aid by December 1, 1985. Contact Magda Mininb~rg, Financial Aid Office for ·ap- plications and more in- formation. -The Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation has announced that it is now seeking nominations of outstanding students in any academic discipline who are preparing for careers in public service. Institutions can nominate up to two sophomores for the 1986· competition. If selected, each student will receive a scholarship award covering eligible expenses up to $5,000 per year for their junior and senior years and two years of graduate study. For more information: write the Truman Scholarsnip Review Committee, CN 6302, Princeton, NJ08541-6302, or call Nadine Chapman (609) 734-5923. -The American Society of Naval Engineers announces a $1,750 renewable scholarship for undergraduate or beginning graduate study leading to .a career in Naval Engineering. Eligible candidates may apply for their junior or senior year or one year of graduate study leading to a designated engineering or physical science degree. Candidates must have demonstrated or expressed an interest in a career in Naval Engineering. Academic record, work history, professional promise and interest in Naval Engineering, extra-curricular activities, and recom- mendations of college faculty, I ca11 '.f believe ~ 4! fJ::tit?:> 0 -k> rai5e -!he Newl6-'~ d¥1VJp~ ~_I __)- / Me~fhev employers, and other character references will all be con· sidered in the selection process. Deadline .for application and back-up material: February 15, 1986. Applications and in- formation may he requested from: · The American Society Qf Naval Engineer~. Inc., 1452 Duke St., Alexandria, VA 22314, Phone: (703) 836-6727. CLUB NEWS -oxfam Meeting- Thursday, November 7, at 4:30 p.m., 3rd Floor Old Chapel, Room A .for all who are interested in helping with the annual Fast which Union will support for November 14. . -Trip to Proctor's-Friday, November ·8, at 8 p.m. \American Ballet Comedy.\ Anyone interested in picking up half-price tickets for $7, $6, $4 meet at Old Chapel Plaza at 7:15 p.m. Student Forum presents the Pub Club •.. Do You Wanna Dance? THE PUB IS BACK & BETTER THAN EVER! Be a1 the Old Chapel Dining Hall this Saturday Night *Snacks *Cash Bar* *Dancing!* 9: 00 to 2 :· 00 --Tators for Co111puter Math,....Still needed at St. John's School for Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. 10:15-11:00 a.m. If you are familiar with Basic Programming and are in· terested, please contact Jessica Emery at 393-5331. -Trip to Proctor's-Friday, November 22 at 8 p.m. Sister Joan has a block Of $15 tickets, Balcony Left, Rows FGH for \'- 42nd Street. If interested call 370-6087. -Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part ofthe Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6~30 p.m. iri the Church to rehearse. -Kindergarten Aides- Anyone interested in assisting Pamela Brown at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Tina Sciocchett, 37D- 2275. -Newman Guest Spe~ker­ Monday, Novemberll at Bp.m. in Fox Lounge Father Dominic Ingemie, Pastor at St. Anthony's and adjunct professor at Maria College will lecture and entertain questions on \Contemporary Moral Issues.'' Father Ingemie holds a graduate degree in Theology from Gregorian University, Rome. · -The Film. Committee presents: Nov. 8-10, Reefer Madness .. Up in Smoke at 7 and 10. Nov. 12, Merry Christmas, Mr. Lawrence at 7:30 and 10. Tickets available in the Old Chapel for $1. -The Silent Scream--The ···controversial film depicting a first-trimester abortion, seen on real-time ultrasouild from the victim's .point.of view. Thurs., Nov. 7, 7:30 p.m. 1n SS113. Sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. CLASSJHEDS -Typing: Top quality, reasonable rates. Call Marian 399-0165. _::_ Typists--$500 weekly at .home! Write: P.O. Box 975, Elizabeth, NJ 07207. _-Lost: Black beaded necklace between Phi Sig and Phi Delta last Saturday night. Reward offered. Call x6516. -Typing--Fast and neat. Free pick-up and delivery. $1.50 per page. 374-1720. -Selling: 79 Datsun Shortbed Pickup. V. GOOD COND. No rust. Lo miles $2,000. Call Trish 584-9240. -4 piece drum · set-white- excellent condition-includes: Hardware (cymbal stand, hi- hat stand, snare stand and bass pedal) - also a 16\ camber II cymbal. All for $375. If in- terested call- .. Nancy, ad- missions -370-6112. Coffle House Presents Steven Baird Folk Singer, Musician Friday, Nov. 8, 9:00P.M. lower Hale House Lounge Join Us For Coffee, Hot Chocolate, Hot Rum & Cider Desserts & Lots More! · Tickets available at Student Activities PE - - Tc yow w thin be ma.l s:pe< Jc app yolll Li yolll Can Mot -M SI PS\ to· BE\ - Sl son; thre T' apo: up. see r I I I I I I I I I I '·

CONCORDIENSIS, November 7, 1985 page 17 PERSONALS To my favorite (and youngest) clueless 19-year-old: We may be crazy but I can't think of anyone ~l13e I'd rather be crazy · with. Thanks for maki:ng the past week so special. · John, I miss you. December is approaching quickly. Love, your world traveller · · Lisa-Hope you're enjoying your ·transatlantic Concordy. Can't wait to see the pink Mohawk. Please send pic ASAP -MEM •· SDT Sisters-We ARE just as PSYCHED as you are .... But not, to be pledges for 3 years BEWARE --SDT Pledges· - SOT PLEDGE~Cute per· sonal this week. Who are you threatening? Watch out! To all our friends, We apologize for last week's screw- up. -It wasn't our fault. E'lease see us tonight (Thurs.) · -Steve Sanders and Mark Haughton FRESHMAN\' .. Tony C, Squeeze your gonads a little harder! Beware, the speaker phone phantom may stdke again'! · · P.S. Don't worry, Tony, we love you! Dear Martin, Have a happy' B-day on Saturday! · ( Love, Courtney, Julie, and Wendy, the sharer of your date of birth! Courtney and Julie, D<m't go on too many Chopp·er raids! I can tell you right now, having a Fred is too big of a headache! Love, Fred's Mom Dear George, I love you more every day I'm with you. I love you 364 times better today than I . did on November 9, 1964. Thanks for filling my life with . sunshine. Kisses, Whitie Happy Birthday to you, happy birthday to you, Happy bir- thday, Dear .Fred, Happy birth· day to you! (Nov. 9th) Love, Wendy your mother 8.RenanisJana Hair Designs UNION COL·LEGE STUDENTS r--------------------------, I . I 1 .$1 0 Off Permanents : I includes haircut : I Reg. $42.00 - : I with this coupon 1 l va~id through Dec. 1st 1' ~--------------------------- MON.-fRI. 9-9 SAT. 9-6 372-0007 519 UNION ST. SClrDY Steve, Now that you've been in my pants, don't you think it's about time we got to know each other better? A Size 29 waist They did the Wing Ding Taffy Apple Tango, Mongo-How's it go? I don't know! Hotdog; have you heard ·the news? STORMCAT has kicked MUSTIN LAKE's ass! Who cares if all of your other girlfriends swallowed? A.R.L.: This term's going to ' be different! Trixie & Candy- \Are you hookers?\ --a bewildered prospective client Pinky, Beware of your actions! The spirit of Sis' Joan follows you . everywhere! ! ! Love, Mrs. Fred Miss Amy Rine, Please help me! I have nowhere to go! My dog is dead, my house has floated away, and I long to see you. Love always, Rudolpho Gonzales .:r 1-!Aff 10 SAY -n-tiS I B'UI you fROBABL- Y fE:LL r;ECAIJ5E- Yov Af.£ Od _!2£VG5-! J: Hoff ~\S SHOWU yoll \1-tf\f Yt?V HAV~ S:OMf-1'\1-IINE. \0 · VJDKRY ABoUI / ~. I · .. ~ e; ..., To the Bovine St\'eer-My most loyal fan! With all my love, Patrick Swayzie Puddles, so you think you have no friends who call you collect to drink with you in the skellar? That isn't so. I love you - and so does John. My dearest Rodolfo, I love you and someday I will visit you in your apartment. Love, me To the sender of my bear- He's warm, cuddly and special! Thank you, ''whoever\ you are! To Mary, Katie and Amy EEEEHHHNN!!! Kmf To Lester, Beastly and Mer-the- Ber, Nothing will ever take the place of 257- Freshman year. I love you guys! Kimball To my favorite SPIT player, I hate that game but I love you anyway. Thank you for being my friend. LOOkS_ LikE per£ 'S /RIPPtNG AGAIN .I RL-If I've been hard on you, I never chose to be. I never wanted no one else ....... .I love you, I love you, I love you. Muh! Mr. Lipmim:--So you think we don't approve. Don't be silly, Darling. Come visit anytime - M, L and K Scott, you look beautiful in eye make-up. I can finally see your lower lashes. Pozzy Bear The weekly meetings of the K • cubed club have not been too weekly. So let's get together in the skellar soon you guys. I miss you. Pozzy Bear Jen D.- Thank yeu for listening. I'll be making my monthly appearance at the house soon. Guess who. John-Will you buy some chocolate pudding already? I'm still waiting. Love, me Brian, Just so you didn't think you escaped, this one is for you. -S, J & L Dear Dave H., You get too nervous over these personals so I'll just keep sending you nice ones. You really shouldn't be worried, we'll always be friends. Love, Lisa A new sports has been in- tiated at Union College: Fip- Tipping! Dear ALIS: Please SMILE, because I ~ove. ·you!!! Remember that the Ghost- busters are watching out for you! Best of luck on finals. Love, AMOS The WAR has just begun. R.S. Y du're in my Art History class. I want a piece of your mind. Not sure what I'm doing. And I'm running out of time . (Keep your shoes on.) Desdetu -Dear Shr-ing Family- Now! What a wonderful time with a wild family! Please remember to avoid all pen- dulum-like walls and discarded nipples! Love, a family member . KOCH- Get psyched for 1622 and your new pad, I am . Love you, sc FOUR SEASONS CHINESE RESTAURANT Phot:'e: 393-5440/393-5441 · Specidze in Cantonese, Szechuan· & HuiWl · Hours: Sun·Thu 11:30·10:00 Fri-sat 11 :30·11 :oo Closed Mondays Take Out or Eat In We preJHire our foods with • • • Just a Little Bit of Luck ond a Whole Lot of experience We're in Walking Distance 10% Student Dftcount fer Take Out Orders Only W/Student I.D .. 183 Nott Terrace: Across from Holiday Inn

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, November ] 1 1985 Olnncnrbtensis SPORTS - ••• \Refrigerator\ Perry falces Chicago by c•~·t~rr•n Better Than Superman By PETE AGRICOLA Sports Staff America seems to have a new sports hero these days. 308 pound William •·'The Refrigerator\ Perry, a part- time defensive tackle, full back and wide receiver for the un- defeated Chicago Bears. Perry, who was a first round draft choice of the Bears, ;tarted out his NFL career by :;eing bad mouthed by his :oaches. He came into training camp at a hefty three-hundred- fifty pounds. He was described by Chicago defensive coor- dinator as a \waste of a good draft pick.\ Perry'was slow to learn defensive plays, and his weight kept him from par- ticipating at full tilt. But, times seem to have changed in Chicago. Perry slimmed down to three- hundred-eight pounds and his · playing time has increased. But most of his playing time is coming on offense. He plays blocking back for Walter Payton in short yardage situations, and Perry has even carried the ball, scoring on his first rushing carry against the Green Bay Packers. This past we\ekend Perry showed his versatility again by scoring a 4- yard touchdown, on a pass from quarterback Jim McMahon. Althoughthe Bears would like to see the Refrigerator slim down, . the six-foot-three- hundred pounder seems to have found a spot in the hearts of American sports fans. Editor's Note-Perry is scheduled to appear on the No. 11 edition of the David Let- terman show, The Chicago Tribune has claimed that \Perry has come to ·symbolize the revival of the Chicago Bears_.\ r Harriers Look to N.C.A.A. Qualifier ·By ANDY HODGKIN Sports Staff The Union men's cross country team travelled to the University of Rochester this past Saturday for the New York State Meet and came home with an eleventh place finish. Coach Russ Ebbets had hoped to place in the top eight in the field of twenty teams but they fell short placing eleventh, seven points behind SUNY Plattsburgh, with a score of 288 in a sport where the lowest score wins. There was one bright spot in the Dutchman performance in that they avenged a previous loss to Colgate by coming out one point ahead of Colgate's twelfth place finish. The individual winner of the meet was Tom Tuori from the University of Rochester who covered the mostly flat five- mile course in 24:58 easily outdistancing second place by twenty-two seconds. The overall team championship for New York State went to St. Lawrence University who scored a low total of 84 points. The im- pressive St. Lawrence per- formance saw them place their V oll~yballers End Season I By VOLLEYBALL STAFF The Union College Volleyball team bumped their season to a close, with a series of exciting triumphs this past week. At the last home match of the season, the team spiked their way to a victory over state- ranked Oneonta in an action- packed three game match. This conquest set the stage . for Union's continued harrassment of the Russell Sage Women's Volleyball Team. With gutsy play dedicated to the soon- departing seniors, the women controlled the pace of the evening and never looked back. Setters Shelly Pino and Melanie Masterson are to be credited with directing an improved Union offense. Division One Siena and with the challenge met, they set their goals on the. tourney cham- pionship. Although they . were set back by Hamilton College in a match where they could get no momentum going., Union claimed the number one seed in their pool. This set the team up for a semi-final meeting against the University of Vermont. The team exemplified their out- standing character by pushing U. V.M. to the limit before losing a close match. The outstanding defensive play by Kim Mangino should be be recognized as high points in the final weekend. top five runners in the top thirty-three. Union placed Senior Chris O'Donnell as their first man in fifteenth place overall with a time of 26:07. The Dutchmen's inability to run close as a team, especially in the high places, hurt as second place for Union did not finish until forty-nine runners had already compJeted the race. Those honors were taken by Senior Bill McRoberts who finished in 27:01. Neil Ricks broke into Union's top three for the first tinie this year placing 65th for the meet with a time of 27: 15. Junior Bob Stenard placed 75th and Ed Hart rounded out the Union top five in the 83rd position. Also run- ning for Union at their first State Meet appearance was Dave DiFilippo in the 91st position and Steve Szydlik who placed llOth. Next on the schedule for the Dutchmen cross country team is the NCAA Qualifier meet coming up this Saturday. ·Support .Union Sports Athlete of ~:;:!!!!)- th·e Week By JAY GROSSMAN Sports Editor ' ' This week's athlete of the week honors goes to No. 93 on the Dutchmen football squad, Rich Romer. The 6'3''., 200 lb., defensive end led the Union defense with 10 tackles, five assists, and three out of the Dutchmen's six sacks of Mid~ dlebury quarterback Tom Robertson. The three sacks counted for minus 21 yards. The defense was outstanding this week, holding tll.e Panthers to a minus five yards on 30 PUShes, and only · one touchdown, against the second team defense. Last season, as a freshman, Romer led the team With seven quarterback sacks and again this .season, he leads the team with nine for minus 56 yards. He was also named' the Albany Times Union's \Rookie of the Year\ last season. Coach AI Bagnoli said that Romer is \very talented, he has great speed, excellent size, and excellent strength. He is _very aggressive and has the rigQ,t personality on the field for his position.\ ·Romer is a mechanical engineer from. East Greenbush, NY and is a brother at Sigma Chi. Congratulations to Rich Romer. Rich Bomer N:-C.A.A. Division J II Football Poll l .. Augustana 2.·centrallowa 3. Carnegie-Mellon 4. UNION 5. Mount·Union 6. Lycoming 7. Wisconsin-River Falls B. Ithaca 9. Gettysburg 10. Dennison_ 1. Brandeis 2. Wheaton 3. Elizabethtown 4. Claremont 5. R.I.T. N.C.A.C. Division Ill Soccer Poll 6. North Carolina-Greensboro 7. California-San Diego I . 8. Glassboro St. 9. Ohio Wesleyan 10. Union 15. Ithaca Upstate N.Y. Coaches Poll Football Potl 1. Union 2. Ithaca 3. Hamilton 4. Albany St. 5. Canisius 8-0 8-0 8-0 s.:o 8-0 8-0 7-0-1 6-1 B-0 B-0 17-1 16-1-2 14-1-1 15-1-2 13-0-3 13-3·5 19-1 14-3-3 15-3·1 11-2.1 12-4-1 8-0 6-1 6-1 5·2 6·2-1 Saturday, the Union women traveled to Skidmore College for the Skidmore tournament. Here, they served up little but trouble for their poor foes. After some glowing performances the spikers walked away with victories over Skidmore and Siena College. The team had set their minds on revenging early season defeats at the hands of After a much enjoyed season, the team .would like to thank the senior members and wish them the best of luck .in tuture Em- deavors. Departing members Suzette Collier, Kris Gernert, Janet Keyes, Mary Forbes, Kim Mangino, and Silvia Wolfen- sberger will be long remem- bered for their leadership on the court and the development of spirit off the court. The team also wishes to thank coach Gehling, Tony DeMartino and Ricky Marcus for their patience and support. Lady Runners Im.prove Hockey Season Is Here/ HOCKEY GAME TICKET POLICY & PROCEDURES Each student is entitled to one (lJ free ticket for personal use to each of the regular.ly scheduled hockey games. (See listed dates below) GAMES OATES & OPPONENTS November 15 No. Adams State November 19 Plattsburgh State, December 7 Oswego State January a SaiEtm State January 14 Hamilton State January 17 Geneseo State January 22 Middlebury Coll.ege January 25 U. of Buffalo Februa.ry 4 Williams College February 7 Colby College February a Bowdoin College Tickets must be picked up one to two days prior to game day. students must present their I.D. card in order to obtain their ticket. TICKETS WILL NOl BE ISSUEQ AFTER 6:00 PM ON - GAMEDAY.S! - ByAMYWALSH Sports Staff Two weeks ago, the women's cross country team ran over the water sogged course at Mid- dlebury College, but were not fast enough to defeat the strong Vermont team. The adverse conditions and treacherous footing which seemed to slow Union's women posed no problem for the Middlebury women, astheir top four cruised to a first place tie, thirty seconds ahead of Amy- Walsh, the first Dutchwoman. Jenny Lee was just ten seconds behind, finishing seventh in 21:44. Jill Sheive ran third for Union, running a 22:53, which was good for ninth place. Hilary Henkind (23:45) was fourth for the Dutchwomen in her first race back after a foot injury. The team was rounded out by Lisa Needham (24:20), Lori Anderson(25:32), and freshman Lisa Mercugiano (29:42) and Sandra Belmir (32:01). Union felt the absence of two of her usual }Joint getters: Barb Etzel, who stayed home nursing a knee injury and Liz Tremente, Who twisted her ankle and fell down a mud covered hill just past the mile mark. Neither were recovered in time for the state. meet in Albany last weekend. They were sorely missed. The experience of Union's team was apparent as the Dutchwomen placed 14th with a total of 335 points. Jenny Lee was the first Union runner to cross the line. She did .so in 20:13 which was good for 51st. Amy Walsh was 6oth in 20:36, with freshman Jill Shieve, 30 seconds behind in 63rd. Hilary Henkind placed fourth .for Union, finishing 69th, while junior Lisa Needham ran one of her best races to date. She bettered her time on the Albany course by close to 20 seconds. Needham was the 5th scorer for Union. Lorie Anderson rounded out the team effort by placing 79th. · The Dutchwomen will compete in the ECAC meet on Nov. 9. This will be the last'race of the season and then tlie varsity runnet·s will join those who have already started base training for indoor track. A Saturday Doubleheader on WRUC 89.7 FM Hamilton Continentals vs. Union Dutchmen. Game Time 1 :30 p.m. Pregame 1:00 p.m. \Countdown to Touchdown\ - - 12:30 p.m. The Skating Dutchmen vs. RPI at 7:30 pm,. pregame 7:00pm ''The Dutchmen -. Sports Network 11 WRUC 8'J.7 FM - - • • 5 Tt mon Dut, culn \Fii dis a thirc by\ Coac his E chm' Reg firs1 21-9- best seve goal chrn Divi 11-4- conJ 16 rec< cesf peti 198' but dis a brei hav and tlm toUJ Dut, the pla; elin Tl loo~ sea: gra1 inte stat leac Bar of v sur plat and The wer

CONCORDIENSIS, November 7.. 1985 Page 19 ••• lose in OT to Babson Skaters Take the Ice By JOHN BRUCE CPS IS There were many exciting moments in the 1984-85 Skating Dutchmen's .season, which culminated in hosting the NCAA \Final Four\ tournament. The disappointment · of Union's third.place finish was tempered by wilmirig the ECAC Western . . 0 .... 0 s::. a. Q - rJ) Coach Charlie MorrisoR enters his eighth year behir:~d the Dut- chmen bench. Region title, the Dutchmen's first ECAC crown. Last year's · 21-9-1 record was the- second best in the school's history and seven of the losses were by one goal. At one point, the Dut- chmen won 14 straight ECAC Division II games and had an 11-4-1 record in th~ friendly confines of Achilles Rink. Despite the loss of much of- fensive production, the Skating Dutchmen appear to have the talent to follow the pattern of the' last two years and enjoy an excellent season. Coach Morrison's biggest challenge this season will be to replace the production of Gill ·Egan (27-23.:50) and Jamie Knight (21-15-36). Morrison can expect co-captains Curt Cole and Tom Hodgins to provide the necessary leadership and ease the loss of Egan and Knight. Sopbomores ~elson Said,. Gary Temush and Scott Cyr will also Manley. These last three newcomers Were so impressive that Coach Morrison felt comfortable about switching Dave Appleby to a wing position, in order to take ad- vantage of his offensive skills. The Skating Dutchmen hosted Babson last Saturday night in an exhibition game. Although the Dutchmen lost 3-2 in be counted on heavily to con- tribute more point production now that they have one year of experience, Senior .Todd Flani·gan, having recovered from last year's injuries, looks ready to contribute both . of- ~ensively and with his aggressive style. Coach Morrison also expects senior Tom Brandell, sophomore Mike Forhan and freshman Darren £ Stephens to make important g contributions to this year's ~ squad. v; On defense, T. J. Ryan was the only loss from a unit that allowed only 2.8 goals per game. Senior goalie, · Wayne McDougall is vital to the Skating Dutchmen's prospects and is the player the team can least afford to lose. The defensive corps will once again be led by senior John MacKenzie, a four year veteran. Others expected to make heavy . contributions are senior Dave Weiss, juniors Duane Joyce and Gavin Morton, sophomore Bill Snow and fresh- men Keith Robertson and Scott Sen.ior Todd Flanigan scored against Babson and just added to- Union'!! punch all season long. overtime, Coach Morrison was able to look at many players and had to be encouraged by sev!lral aspects of their per- formance. Union's goals were scored by Todd Flanigan and freshman Jeff Hurd. The Dutchmen were ·also missing co-captain Tom Hodgins, who is expected back from an: illness in time for the next game, and defenseman Keith Robertson, Continued on page 20 Hoops Begin Preseason ByMARKVANBUREN Sports Staff 16-11. To most people this · record would indicate a suc- cessful season in sports com- petition. In a way it was for the 1984-85 men's basketball team, but in many w~ys it was a Coach Bill Scanlon disappointment. A couple of breaks here and there might have resulted in a record of 21-6 and a second berth (in the last three years) in the NCAA tournament. Instead, the Dutchmen settled for a spot in the ECAC Upstate New York playoffs,' where they were eliminated in the semi-finals. This year's squad will be looking to improve on last season's performance. Due to graduation, the team lost three integral members - not only -in statistical categories, but in leadership as well. Kevin Bartlett and Ken D'Orazio, both of whom finished their careers. ·surpassing the 1,000-poin.t plateau, finished 1-2 in scoring and rebowtding last season. They, along with Jim Doherty, were looked upon constantly for guidance and leadership throughout the year, not only on the court, but off it as well. However, Coach Bill Scanlon has added six new faces (fresh- men Scott Gibbs and Doug Gregory, JV promotees Todd Lafayette and Joe Romer, transfer Joe Hanely and junior Bruce Witherspoon) in hopes of filling the vacated spots. Nine returning players will be counted on heavily this season. Outside, the five returning guards (Tom Beck, Steve DeBalso, Tim Diemoz, Ken Levine, and Rob Parento) provide the squad with ex- cellent shooting touches and Excitement should be at a maximwn with the leapers in the frontcourt and the quickness in the backcourt creating fast · paced contests. The addition of the 45-second shot clock~ will also provide more thrills, as teams will not be able to employ delay tactics, thus slowing the will be looked to for floor leadership. Up front, the Dutch- .e men are big and physical. _g Returning are 6.;7 Mike Miller - a. who started much of last 0 rJ) seast:m, 6-4 workhorse Tim Coleman, 6-3 Neil Winawer - who came off the bench last year as the sixth man to spark many rallies, and 6-5 Kurt Fox - who is equally adept as an outside shooter and passer as he is working in close to the basket. During the first few weeks of pre-season practices, both Coach Scanlon and Assistant · Coach Bob Montana have been pleased with the day-to-day progress that the team has shown, but are quick to point out that there is still a good deal of roQm for improvement. This improvement not only has to come by means of sharpening skills, but also in the con- ditianing phase of the game. This is a young team (7 juniors, 6 sophomores, and 2 freshmen) with a great deal of potential. There should be a greater offensive balance· than was present last season. Junior Guard Kenny Levine games down. Injuries have thus far been somewhat of a burden to the Dutchmen, as Bruce Wither- spoon (broken nose), Joe Hanley (back spasms), Joe Romer (stress fracture in foot), and Mike Miller (pulled hamstring) all have missed substantial practice time. The Dutchmen open the year at home in the Capital District Tournament on Dec. 1st and 2nd, and then play away Dec. 4 (Elmira), Dec. 6 and 7 (Nazareth Tournament) and Dec. 10 (Springfield) before their Christmas break. They return next year for the Union Invitational (Jan. 3 and 4), where they will play host to N.Y.U., Wesleyan, ND Williams. > <!tnncnrbitusis SPORTS Charlie Slotnik 'Looking a,t Sports This weekend will be the most important weekend for UNION teams thus far this year. The football team has the oppertunity to become the first Dutchmen team to be un- defeated since 1949. The soccer team begins NCAA Tournament play as they host Ithaca on Sunday at 1: 00, and the hockey team opens their regular season against the Division ·One National Champions, R. P .I.. in Troy on Saturday at 7: 30. The Dutclunen football team will have their most difficult game of the season when they host the Hamilton Continentals on Saturday at 1:30 on the astroturf field. For the second consecutive year the Dutchmen will enter the Hamilton game undefeated. Last year the Dutchmen fell10-3 on a muddy field in Clinton, N.Y. In order for UNION to come away victorious, the Union defense, led by all American candidate Tony Valente, must contain Hamilton quarterback Seamus Crotty. Crotty has passed for 5764 yards in his four year career, and was featured in Sport's Illustrated's \Faces in the Crowd\ last- year. A win on Saturday will assure the Dutchmen the home-field advantage in the upcoming NCAA Division Three playoffs. Bob Magee has led the UNION soccer team to a very successful 11-2-1 season this year. The UNION Booters are the number one seeded team in the New York region of the NCAA Division Three Soccer Tournament. Sunday, they will do battl~ with a strong Ithaca team that finished the season with a 12-4-1 record, and won nine straight games during the course of the season. Ithaca is currently ranked 20th in the nation, and is second to R.I. T. in the Independent College Athletic Conference. The Blue Bombers have a well balanced scoring attack that boasts five players with five goals or more. The mainstay of their offense is John Lamstein who has scored three goals and 16 assists this season. Ithaca is . also strong defensively; goal keeper John Pointek has only given up six goals in eleven games. The winner of Saturday's game will meet the winner of the R.I.T.- Fredonia game later next week. The Union College Skating Dutchmen will try to avenge last year's 3-2 overtime loss to R.P.I., while at the same time attempt to snap the Engineers' 33 game unbeaten streak on Saturday night. The Division Two Dutchmen will have to play their best for the whole sixty minutes if they are to come away with a victory. Last y~ar, R.P.I.'s John Carter scored with 22 seconds remaining in the game to tie tbe score at two, and then scored again in the overtime ending UNION's · dreams of upsetting the Engineers. Five players from last year's R.P.I. are playing pro hockey. Nevertheless, R.P .1. is still loaded. Seniors John Carter and Mike Park are all American candidates and N.H.L. prospects. Juniors Neil Hernberg and Terry Butryn each had a hat trick in R.P.I.'s 12-2 drubbing of University of Toronto last week, and Goalie Brian Jopling is a solid goaltender. Last year the Skating DutM chmen had the advantage of playing at home. However, this year the ganie is at Troy, and R.P.I. fans are known for their less than hospitable treatment toward opponents. Therefore, I hope that as many students as possible will make the twenty- five minute trip to Troy and support UNION. Since the soccer, football, and hockey teams all have big games this weekend it is im- portant that the student body show as much support as possible for the Dutchmen. Mid- terms ended two weeks ago, and finals are not for another two weeks, thus everyone should make an effort to atten.d at least one game, and cheer the Dut- chmen on. +++ Footba:ll Notes. Quarterback Mike Gargiulo was anmed EC.A.C. North's Player of the Week after his 302 yard of- fensive performance against Middlebury... George McEvoy had an impressive day Satur- day catching six passes for 89 yards, while filling in for in- jured Jim LaFrance ... The Dutchmen secondary in- tercepted their 28th pass of the season which broke the old record of 27 set by the 1983 team... Senior Middle Guard Anthony Valente is a strong candidate to earn both All E.C.A.C. and All America Honors... Augustana 41, Benedictine 3... Ithaca 15, Hobart 12. +++ Junior goaltender Tim Flanigan has elected to sit out this hockey season. Flanigan, a transfer from St. Lawrence in 1984, is going to put an emphasis on academics and conditioning. Tim will use his final year of varsity eligibility next season since he will be a strong can- didate to replace Senior Wayne MacDougall as starting goaltender. +++ Tonight at the R.P.I. Field House the \Flying Fathers\ of Canada will play a team of former R.P.I. and UNION hockey players in an exhibition to benefit Troy Youth Hockey. The ''Flying Fathers\ ·are a group of priests that travel the U.S. and Canada playing \Old- timer'' games. Ex-UNION players Gill Egan, T. J. Ryan and Jamie Knight will play as will UNION assistant coach Dart Fridgen. Face off is at 7:30. Be a part of Union College Hockey!! Join the Skating Dutchmen Pep Band Any interested musician please contact Kathy Natole at Achilles Rink 370-6134

Page 20 CONCORDIENSJS, November 7, 1985 1-. .c Cl.l u .0 0 ::> ::..! 1-. u C) '- \0 Ol ·:; t= It) - 0 >- .0 >- 0 .0 .... 0 0 +\ .!:: 0 c. .!:: c. Skating Dutchmen Open Up See preview on page 19 Soccer Team in N.C.A.A. Playoffs seestorybelow . ' Thursday, November 7, 1985 .•. first undefeated season since 1949? Dutchmen Punish Panthers Sophomore running back Darrell Shepherd carries the baH as Union offensive lineman blocks for him. Union won the game 21-8 over Middlebury. By TED CANNON Sports Staff Last Saturday at Middlebury, the Union football team moved one step closer to every team's dream, an Wldefeated season, by upending the Middlebury Panthers 21-8. The only thing now that stands between Union and a record of 9-0 is a very tough Hamilton squad. It was a fired-up Union team that took the field last Saturday, something very un- characteristic for this team. \That's the most psyched we've been at the start of a game this season,\ said senior captain -- ... for NCAA NY Region Playoffs Soccer H ! Ithaca By MICHAEL GLASS Sports Staff For the third straight year, the Union soccer team has been invited to the NCAA Division III tournament. Seeded second, behind undefeated RIT, the Booters will play their first playoff game against Ithaca on Sunday at 1 p.rp., on Garis Field. Many people believe that strong victories against Vassar and St. Lawrence are what sealed the Dutchmen bid. N.C.A.A. NY REGION PLAYOFFS #10 Union vs. #151thaca Sunday 1:00 Garis Field Tickets available at gate Sun. 12:00. Adults $4.00 Students $2.00 Children under 12 $1.00 Bob .n:tHILu:au, Ste,~e'',.:'bifl~man, and Doug op- ponents ... b .. •b,Y .. ,_ ... record to 11-1-l, only of Union's all-time season of On Monday, the Dutchmen came up short of the record, however, as they were defeated by North Adams, 2-1. Truly, the game did not mean very much to the hooters, but, it seemed to mean a great deal to North Adams-who had expected a bid into the tournament and were denied one. Junior Jim Monks scored the only Dutchman goal. Most certainly the Dutchmen have a lot to look forward to. One can only hope that they continue to play as well as they have this past season and trek on to a Division III title. ~ +- (]) N 10 C) >- \0 ~ u (]) c (]) .!:: u (f) (]) ..c ..... 0 ~ ~ .... ::> 0 u 0 0 .!:: c. North Adams goalie Ray Sullivan takes the ball away from Union's Jim Monks yesterday on Garis Field. The Dutchmen lost 2-1 but tbey.bqst J theca this S\,lnc;tay in the playoffs. and starting offensive guard, Gerry Campanelli. \We had a great week of practice and it showed.\ Gargiulo again connected with Bright. This time from 3 yards out. That score and Mid- dlebury's in the fourth produced The combination defense and the evEm•l' • ., ...... '*.\ the 21-8 final. .,.\'\\·&0·~ Saturday the Dutchmen · for a perfect season at Mike much for !Vll11Wtlqwry, Although it Panthers were effectively fact the allowed late in the second quarterback brilliant. He passes, 232 touchdowns, yards and a was good, but trolled the Middle Heinecken. best shot, defense were just us to handle.~' con- ' said Mickey Union our and that much for Union's first score came in the first minutes, after · an impressive drive, with a 28-yard Gargiulo to sophomore flanker Cecil Bright scoring pass. Senior kicker Greg Sticka's first of three points after made it 7-0. In the second quarter, the Hamilton This time last was 8-0 but was Hamilton to ruin their a perfect season. This Hamilton team is even With a record of 7-1, the boast a potent led by talented quar- Seamus Crotty. A win assure the Dutchmen of third straight playoff bid. excitement starts at 1 :.00 Skaters ••• Continued from page 19 out several weeks with a broken wrist. New assistant coach, Dan Fridgen and graduate assistant coach, T. J. Ryan, are expected to aid Coach Morrison im- mensely. The Skating Dutchmen will go up against defending national division champions, R.P.I. at the Houston Field House this Saturday, in their first regUlar season game. The Engineers most certainly will be Union's toughest opponent on their schedule. DUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK November 7- November 13 Saturday, 11/9 Football vs. Hamilton 1:30 Hockey at R.P.I. 7:30 Men's & Wome.n's Cross Country NCAA Qualifying Sunday, 11/lO Soccer vs. Ithaca 1:00 GARNET SCOREBOARD UN ION 21 UNION 4 UNIONS N. Adams 2 Babson 3 FOOT BALL (8-0) , SOCCER (11-2-l) HOCKEY (0·1) Middlebury 8 Vassar 1 St. Lawrence o UNION 1 Union 2 (OT) . \ - ...

