· CXVI,No.l Learn About ' .... . .\\ Union·'s Academic Life By ORIENTATION COMMITTEE As a fresbman at Union College, you shoUld realize the importance ·of the academic environment. During orientation, we try to give you the most beneficial introduction to · academi<!S so as to fully prepare you for your next four years. The following will be a brief synopsis of the academically related activities available during orientation 'liS. From 2'.:()0-4:00 p.m. on Saturday, SEptember 6, there will be a Financial Aid Open House held in Becker Hall, located in the building where most of you had your interviews. The financial ·aid staff will be available to answer questions for students and their parents. In addition, the office will be open during regular business hours throughout tile orientation program. M~nday, September 8, from 8::3~1.9:30 a.m. Academic Advising M·eetings for Tr.an$fers will take place. Your advisor's namet appointment time, and IDeation are included in yGur orientatiQn pacltet. 1\.lso on Monday the Stb, mandatory . Special ,A.cademic Meetings will be held from 9: oo- 9:30a.m. FreShmen may obtain information e()ncerning: -Undeclared Majors, Old ehapel . -Health .Professions, BU 204 -PFe Law, HU 115 -5 Year BA-B8-MBA, BH 312 Departmental Meetings will be held in · two sessions on Monday the 8th. These sessiQns are intended to allow a student to meet witn professors from Continued on page 3 . ·.' .. -/,.., 1877 Sept. 6, 1986 - Introduction to Union's Social Environment Orientation Meeting This Tuesday By ORIENTATION COMMITTEE . ··:---· .·,- :.,::.:;:.:.~·;:,. -:,::---~')-,-·-, --;v.: ,_,·': '\' :---. -~ ,, .. ,,.,:.. ... ,. y ., -._,_ ,::-, ~---v---: '':~:g .. -· . . ~-~-;;~,-- ... ' \/.'~~--- ··T. · .:!};d Tuesday, September 9, may be your most important day of orientation. After three days of getting acquainted with the campus, its butldings, its programs and its people, comes your chance to see a more serious aspect of college life (in addition to academics). You will probably have many questions about the social environment and living conditions especially if. this is the first tinle~ you have lived away from home. Just remember that you are not alone. This is why the orientation committee and Residence Life have carefully the discussions to be more effective. The Resident Advisors will cover many different aspects of many areas of college life ranging from .academics to living with your roomate. They will sllare personal experiences and talk about common fears and pressures experienced by new students. They will try to give and objective, open perspective of the school emphasizing academics, options of behavior, ORIEf\ITATION COMMITTEE: Front: Julie Mountain, Stephanie Jaryna, Lisa Kaplan, lise Jenouri, Wendy ,Endress; Claudia Duqack, KeUy Larkin. Back: Winston Bliss~ Keith Conklin, John- Zuk, Bruce Szymanski, Meredith Auten, John Madej. Missing t Ma.rk Webster. · getting_ involved in extra curricular activities and most of all, relating to one another as well as likely consequences of situations and choices made. Orientation Ch·ai,rmen Welcome Unio·n's Freshman Class of 1990! · planned some ·special discussions titled \Union's SocW Enviroment\ Which are scheduled for two secession. Both secession will meet on Tuesday. Groups 1-15 will go to tlleir assigned RA groups from 11:·30 AM to 12:30. PM and groups 16-30 .from 12:30 PM to 1:30PM, lunch will be provided. Meeting locations for each group are listed on the last page of your \Orientation 1986\ pamphlet. The discussion will deal with these topics in relation to the elements of the col1ege community ranging from classrooms to the Greek system including dorm life, alcohol, and school policies, relationships and feelings, academics and campus services. You are the most important part of these discussions, as you are the newest element of the college coinmunity. This is one of tne few occasions that the attention is completely focused on your special situation and geared to your special questions. What the Resident As co-chairmen of Orientation we, on behalf ()f the entire college coilll1lunity Wld all those helping with Orientation would like to take this opportllDity to welcome you to Uni~n College. As students, we remember coming to Union fen.\ the first time and can tberef()re appreciate your feelings of .. apprehension as you ·enter both . a new stage of Ufe and a new environment. We bav.e kept your feelings, tlloilghts and expectations in mind t<l order to provide you with an orientation that will quickly acclimate you . to all aspects of college life here at Union. Events scheduled during the next four days will introduce you to academics, extra<!urriculars and social life. · We encourage you to attend all ev.ents as they will help ease your transition. Sincerely, Kelly Larkin and Julie :Momttain These discussion groups will be lead by selected Resident Advisors. Resident Advisors are upperclass students who are chosen by Residence Ufe to oversee dormitory floors and to be available .for the residents of the floor to help · with any problems that may arise. The groups will not be co-ed in order to alleviate . some pressures from the students and to allow PARENTS!! . Advisors will tell you, not only as advisors of dormitory floors, but as fellow students will be the most realistic infonnation you will be able to obtain. Be prepared to ask questions on any topic you want. Take advantage of this opportWlity that is provided for you! KEE,P IN TOUCH WITH UNION: UNION CO~LEGE CONCORDIENSIS CO.NCORDIENSIS established in Hi77 and providing 109 ye~rs of continuous service to the Union Community, invites subsriptions from alumni, parents and friends. The one year <three term} subscription rate is $24.00 Please return the slip below, along with a check payable to CONCORDIENSIS, to Box 2577, ·union ColletJe, Schenectady, NY 12308. ---------------~~-------~--------------------- CONCORDIENS.iS.SUBSCRI,PTION FORM 0 Enclosed is m'i .check for $24.00 per subscription. Name----~--~--~--~~----~------------------ _Class _____ _ Address ~--~------------------- --· -----· ·---·--· --· Statue of Che$1er Arthur and Union's Nott Mem.orl;al. Please make chec.k payable to CONCORDI.ENSIS and mail with this form to Box 2577, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308.

Page2 CONCORDlENSIS Orientation Issue, Sept. 6, 1986 FoUIUkd 01 { lnton Collegr 18 77 ------------ ----~-- Be· A Part of Union Now that you've unpacked your bags and have met many of the people you'll be living with for the next· year (all in a few frenziedhours) it's time to b~gin your careers as students at Union College. It is a good time to be a Union student for many reasons. For one . thing, the new Campus Center and Gym will soon be completed, opening an almost limitless scope of · opportunities. Althoagh we are attending Union· primarily to receive an academic education, an equally valuable aspect' of education that . Union . provides is beyond the classroom walls. It is through these extra-curricular activities that we learn now to utilize our academic education in society. There are many activities in campus that can provide this type . of experience: Mountebanks; the Student Forum, the Film Committee, and Photo Clubs, just to name a few. At Concordiensis, many members of tile. staff have felt that participating on a cQllege newspaper has been the most rewarding aspects of their' four years at Union. In the preface to his work about Union, entitled Thirty Years in the Life of a College, Professor C. William Huntley made the followjng reference to Concordiensis: ''the reader will perhaps be struck by the frequency with which the Concordiensis is quoted in the pages that follow. There are two reasons for the many excerpts: theConcordy is the, only source that I have been able to find for rriany of the details that are essential in understanding what happened, day-by- day, on the campus; also the paper ;particularly in its many editorials, provides a veridical report of what undergraduates were thinking about and what their concerns were. As a college newsp~per, the Concordy has come in for its share of jibes, often justified, but I think that an impartial observer might well conclude that, for the years here concerned, it was a much better than average college sheet. My judgement may well be swayed by the fact that I was managing editor in my own undergraduate days and thoroughly enjoyed the experience ..• In the .account that follows, the reader may be impressed, as I was, at how often the editorials and letters-to-the-editor urged changes in college policies and procedures that were later adopted .. Sometimes .it was as much as a decade before the College acted m the directions urged by the Concordy .\ Thus, the Union College student newspaper has a long, solid tradition that you, as a freshman might· want to consider being involved in. We invite and urge all students with interest in participating in the mechanics of ConcortJje~is to jain us Thursday, September 11th at 4 p.m. m our office on the third floor of Old Chapel We need people to write news, features, sports, solicit advertising, type or take pictures, and layout the newspaper. In 'any case, we're just one of the many activities that you can partake in at Union that will surely add and enrich your college life. As editors-in-chief of Concordiensis, we would like to welcome you to Union College,. as you embark on the most exciting years of your life. Welcome aboard! You are invited to join members of the Faculty aAd Administration for the Opening Convocation of the academic year. Faculty members will march in cap and gown and President Morris will present the priorities and goa.ls of the College for the year. Because these educationa I priorities are likely to have a significant impact on your careers at Union, you are strongly encouraged to come and share this occasion with your fellow students and faculty members. Wednesday; September 10,1986 Memorial Chapel 11 :30-12:30 p .. m. Join Us Now Concordiensis is now seeking persons interested in the field of College Jour- nalism. We have positions available for students whQ wish to learn more about newspaper writing, layout, editing, business, advertsing, photography and subscriptions. If interested, fill out this slip and return to box 2577 or come to our organizational meeting on Thurs., Sept. 11 at 4 p.m.· 3rd Fl., Old Chapel Name ------------------~Box'---- Phone _____________ Year _____ _ Field of Interest --------------~ o·rientatlon G.roups To C.onve:ne ·Eaell Freshman and Transfer st11de11t has been assigned to an orientati()n group. This group co11sists of between fifteen and twe11ty incoming students, two or:ientation advisors and a fac:ulty member. Throughout orientation each group will meet twice; once on SatW'day, September 6, at 3.:00 and again on SWlday, September 7, at 10:~(). The meeting place for each .group is listed on the last page ()f yoW' \Orientation 1986\ pamphlet. Tile first meeting Will be an . opportUllity for you to meet new st11dents:, your orientation adyiso.rs, and your faculty orlentati()n advisor. At this meetiDg feel free to . ask questi«~ns about the academics, social life, clubs and activities or any other tQpics of interest concerning Union College or the Schenectady area. Yo11r Faculty Ori~ntation Ad'Visor will be available at the second meeting to discuss academic programs and regulations at Union. The article you received over vacation, \A Modest Proposal\ will also be discussed at this meeting. This is the first year this has been included in orientation. Its purpose is to expose you to situations similar to 1bose you will encounter in . the classroom. Transfer Students Welcomed to Union Welc()me to Union! As \old bands\ at college life we realize · tllat many of the events planned for Orientation will not be of interest to you, 'however, please malte note of the many activities planned specifically for transfer students. On Sunday, September 7 from 12:00 tol:30p.m. a Transfer me~ing has been scheduled in Hale House, Lower lounge. The purpose of this meeting is to provide infonnation concerning credit evaluation, financial assistance and special programs. 011 Monday, September 8 fr()m8·:30 to 9:30a.m. there will. be academic advising sessiol;lS for transfer students. ' This session gives each student an opportWlity to meet with his or her advisor in order to discuss reqllirements for majors. This session also is a time where st11dents may ask questions concerning course selection and registration. The time and loeati011 for each meeting is included on a yellow card in yotll.\' Orientation packet. Although events have been plan11ed specifically for trll!lsfer·students, attendance at all the Orientation events is highly recommended as they willhelp acclilllate each student to Union. The College community would like to welcome all transfer students to Union. Do11't hesitate to become ac~timated to OW' environment as qlli.ckly as you can. We hope that you can add an extra dimension to Union's incoming students~ ORIENTATION F:raternities· Welcome Union Freshmen By JEFF MacFARLAND The Union College . Interfraternity Council and. its . member organiZations extend a welcome to all of the class of · 1990. The IFC is the governing body of all Fraternities on the · Union Campus. Among the • duties.of this organizatiop. ar~ to · mandate systemwide policies, · such as the recent party policy to serve as a liaison between the Fraternities as a group and' the administration, and also to coordinate such activities as Greek Week,. · community service projects, and. Fall tenn rush. · Of major importt;mce to maJ1y Freshman males right now is Rush. This year tbe IFC has formulated a dry rush policy that all member Fraternities . are expected to follow. During tbe cotirse of the Fall term, two weeks have been set aside to · serve as a fonnal rush period. More on these matters will be discussed and questions will be answered at two upcoming events sponsored, at least in part,. by the IFC. The first . is during orientation, when the IFC and the PanHellenic Council (Sororities) combine to put on two half hour informational sessions on Monday morirlng, September 8th in M~morial Chapel. Questions will be answered on all tQpics you may have concerning the Fraternity system. {Consult the OrieDtation schedule for exact times.) The second event is the Rush Convocation, Monday Evening, September 15th at 7:30 in Old Chapel. 'I'his will be the official beginning of Fall tenn ~h. Also, at the Convocation will be a guest speaker,. Mr. Buddy Cote, to h.elp the freshmen and fraternity members to wulerstand the importance of a good Dry Rush program. Througbthese two, events, more information and guidelines will be introduced and explained. Until then, welcome to Union and enjoy your foW' years. B!N fiJ ·ammY:5 WACO'Mit~ lJNlON' ~ •OLt) (JNJ!»J ----------·------- ____ ..., ____ ---:-----

Page2 CONCORDIENS/S Orientation Issue, Sept. 6, 1986 (!lnnrnrbtrnsis FoUIUkd ol { 'n10n Collf:8t 18 .... ~ ------------ -------- Be A Part of Union Now that you've unpacked your bags and have met many of the people you'll be living with for the next year (all in a few frenzied hours) it's time to begin your careers as students at Union College. It is a good time to be a Union stu.dent for many reasons. For one thing, the new Campus Center and Gym will soon be completed, opening an almost limitless scope of opportunities. Although we are attending Union primarily to receive an academic education, an equally valuable aspect of education that Union provides is beyond the classroom walls. It is through these extra-curricular activities that we learn how to utilize our academic education in society. There are many activities in campus that can provide this type · of experience: Mountebanks; the Student Forum, the Film Committee, and Photo Clubs, just to name a few. At Concordiensis, many members of the staff have felt that participating on a cQllege newspaper has been the most rewarding aspects of their four years at Union. In the preface to his work about Union, entitled Thirty Years in the Life of a College, Professor C. William Huntley made the following reference to Concordiensis: ''the reader will perhaps be struck by the frequency with which the Concordiensis is quoted in the pages that follow. There are two reasons for the many excerpts: the Conccndy is the,only source that I have been able to find for many of the details that are essential in understanding what happened, day-by- day, on the campus; also the paper, ·particularly in its many editorials, provides a veridical report of what undergraduates were thinking about and what their concerns were. As a college newsp~per, the Concordy has come in for its share of jibes, often justified, but I think that an impartial observer might well conclude that, for the years here concerned, it was a much better than average college sheet. My judgement may well be swayed by the fact that I was managing editor in my own undergraduate days and thoroughly enjoyed the experience ... In the account that follows, the reader may be impressed, as I was, at how often the editorials and letters-to-the-editor urged changes in college policies and procedures that were later adopted. Sometimes it was as much as a decade before the College acted in the directions urged by the Concordy.\ Thus, the Union College student newspaper has a long, solid tradition that you, as a freshman might want to consider being involved in. We invite and urge all students with interest in participating in the mechanics of Concordiensis to join us Thursday, September 11th at 4 p.m. in our office on the third floor of Old Chapel. We need people to write news, features, sports, solicit advertising, type, or take pictures, and layout the newspaper. In any case, we're just one of the many activities that you can partake in at Union that will surely add and enrich your college life. As editors-in-chief of Concordiensis, we would like to welcome you to Union College, as you embark on the most exciting years of your life. Welcome aboard! You are invited to join members of the Faculty and Administration for the Opening Convocation of the academic year. Faculty members will march in cap and gown and President Morris will present the priorities and goals of the College for the year. Because these educational priorities are I ikely to have a significant impact on your careers at Union, you are strongly encouraged to come and share this occasion with your fellow students and faculty members. Wednesday, September 10,1986 Memorial Chapel 11:30-12:30 p.m. Join Us Now Concordiensis is now seeking persons interested in the field of College Jour- nalism. We have positions available for students who wish to learn more about newspaper writing, layoi:Jt, editing, business, advertsing, photography and subscriptions. If interested, fill out this slip and return to box 2577 or come to our organizational meeting on ThtJrs., Sept. 11 at 4 p.m.· 3rd Fl., Old Chapel Name _____________________ Box ___ Phone ____________ Year ______ _ Field of Interest ---------------------- Orientation Groups To Convene Each Freshman and Transfer student has been assigned to an orientation group. This group consists of between iifteen and twenty incoming students, two orientation advisors and a faculty member. Throughout orientation each group will meet twice; once on Saturday, September 6, at 3:00 and again on Sunday, September 7, at 10:30. The meeting place .for each group is listed on the last page of your \Orientation 1986\ pamphlet. The first meeting will be an opporttmity for you to meet new students, your orientation advisors, and your faculty orientation advisor. At this meeting feel free to ask questions about the academics, social life, clubs and activities or any other topics of interest concerning Union College or the Schenectady area. Your Faculty Orientation Adviser will be available at the second meeting to discuss academic programs and regulations at Union. The article you received over vacation, \A Modest Proposal\ will also be discussed at this meeting. This is the first year this has been included in orientation. Its purpose is to expose you to situations similar to those you will encounter in the classroom. Transfer Students Welcomed to Union Welcome to Union! As \old hands\ at college life we realize that many of the events planned for Orientation will not be of interest to you, however, please make note of the many activities planned specifically for transfer students. On Sunday, September 7 from 12:00 to 1:30 p.m. a Transfer meeting has been scheduled in Hale House, Lower lounge. The purpose of this meeting is to provide information concerning credit evaluation, financial assistance and special programs. On Monday, September 8 from 8:30 to 9: 30 a.m. there will be academic advising sessions for transfer students. This session gives each student an opportWlity to meet with his or her advisor in order to discuss requirements for majors. This session also is a time where students may ask questions concerning course selection and registration. The time and location for each meeting is included on a yellow card in your Orientation packet. Although events have been planned specifically for transfer students, attendance at all the Orientation events is highly recommended as they will help acclimate each student to Union. The College community would like to welcome all transfer students to Union. Don't hesitate to become acclimated to our environment as quickly as you can. We hope that you can add an extra dimension to Union's incoming students. ORIENTATION Fraternities Welcome Union Freshmen By J'EFF MacFARLAND The Union College Interfraternity Council and its member organizations extend a welcome to all of the class of 1990. The IFC is the governing body of all Fraternities on the Union Campus. Among the duties of this organization are to · mandate systemwide policies, such as the recent party policy to serve as a liaison between the Fraternities as a group and the administration, and also to coordinate such activities as Greek Week, community . service projects, and Fall term rush. Of major importance to many Freshman males right now is Rush. This year the IFC has formulated a dry rush .policy that all member Fraternities are expected to follow. During the course of the Fall term, two weeks have been set aside to serve as a formal rush period. More on these matters will be discussed and questions will be answered at two upcoming events sponsored, at least in part, by the IFC. The first is during orientation, when the IFC and the PanHellenic Council (Sororities) combine to put on two half hour informational sessions on Monday morning, September 8th in Memorial Chapel. Questions will be answered on all topics you may have concerning the Fraternity system. (Consult the Orientation schedule for exact times.) The second event is the Rush Convocation, Monday Evening, September 15th at 7: 30 in Old Chapel. This will be the official beginning of Fall term rush. Also, at the Convocation will be a guest speaker, Mr. Buddy Cote, to help the freshmen and fraternity members to understand the importance of a good Dry Rush program. Through these two events, more information and guidelines will be introduced and explained. Until then, welcome to Union and enjoy your four years. BEN fil d.ERllf~ 'Wl!l.COMltS lJNlOW S1UDEN3'S • OL'D ~NJ!iN -----~--------------------------- .......... - ......... ----- ... ------- - ..... lliii ..... - - - ....... GOOD A'I B&:r • 1700 WJIQN. ST. <tontor · ... 0 Editors~iu .. cruef New:Slnditors .·

CONCORDIENSIS Orientation Issue, Sept. 6, 1986 Page3 OrientatiOn Briefs Mountebanks Perform Skits Minerva Speaker Series Life at Union in most The Minerv11 Committee of instimt;es ·can be charactei,i.Zed .. Union College invites speakers as typical, as many. students . ; With varied backgrowt<Js to . share common exper1ences. In · lecture ·from 11:30 to 12:30 order to . fam~liar!ze new every Wednesday morning. students w1th s1tuat1ons that · Minerva Hour is an excellent may occur, the ~ounteban:U • OpPQrtmity · for students · and ~ . present a s~nes of .~Jkits • professors to attend lectures ent~tled, \A day ~ yo~ life at . presented by experienced and Umon\: Th~se skits '\yill touch . entertaining speakers. Pat upon . ~1tuat10ns rangmg fr~m · Riley, coach of the L.A. L.akers experlenc·es . at fratermty will be here on September l7th. parties to breaking up with a Eleanor Baum wbo has served girlfriend or boyfriend. The on the executive coillDljttee of Mountebanks, !1 talented. group the American Society of of. students,, '!ill ente~~ you Engineering Education will be ~1th a s~pr1smgly reahsb~ and here on September 24th. You mf~rma~1v~ pol't!ayal of .J..ife at may refer to the first issue of Umon. • A day m your life at the Concordieosis for the Union\ will take place on complete fall schedule of the Saturday, September 6th at 7:30 Minerva hour speakers. p.m. in Memorial Chapel. On · · T.uesday, September 9th there will be RA discussions which will afford you with an opportunity to discuss with your RA's some of the scenes portrayed in the show. Please make sure to come, who knows maybe some day in the future you will be able to relate to a few of the topics. Orientation Activity Carnival New -Student Picnic The new student picnic will.be held on Sunday September 7th from 2:30 to 6:00 p,m. held at the Union College Girling Center, which is located about a mile from campus. Buses will be provided to meet your transportation needs and will be departing from the Davidson- Fox parking lots every fifteen niinutes. 'Ibis is the highlight of Come one, come an; to the orientation and all who miss it first. ever orientati~n activity will be sorely di$3ppointed~ A car!ltyal. There will. be an barbecue_will be held and many acti~y;.:expo . .late~ th.~ ~term, , games··Will.·be 'available for an ~ut for now we\d . like to ' to participate • . . and the fun mtroduce you to some of the · doesn't end there so make sure major.· ca,mpus activit~s ~d you attend for' an all out orgamzat1ons. The canuval will · afternoon of fun and relaxation. ~ take place · on MondaY, c · September 8th from 12:15 to 3 ACe p.m. in fr~nt of West co. liege. ·Q . There wiUbefood, fun games, . ream but most importantly you will S . • / have the chance to ask OCla questions about activities you may be interested in Without feeling pressed for time. When you finish speaking with student forum members, crew and concert committee members you can hang out eat cotton candy and p6pcom and perhaps get up a game of volleyball. So remember, ·Monday~ September 8th be at West college and enjoy good food, have fun a,nd learn more about Student activities. The Ice Cream Social is an excellent way .for new students to meet their fellow students. And that is exactly the reason why we hold this ~ual event. Not only is Ben and Jerry's (the best ice cream in the country) served but the West environment transcends its soon to be familiar appearance and becomes a place of true social interaction. The Ice rFreshman ,Dinner Dance · Cream Social will be held between the hotll\s· of 9:45 p;m, and 11:30 p.m. Saturday, September 6th. As an ~dded , feature, a record hop will be provided so that you all can dance between scoops. Hope to see you all there. It will be a heck of a lot of fun. Have you been living in the same t .. shirt and shorts for the past few days? Well; ori Monday you'll have two reasons to hlll\t. for something not so casual. First, there will be a relaxing semi .. fonnal dinner in Hale House· and Old Chapel Lower Lounge from 5:30.7:00 P.M. Food .. Service Will be out to impress when it breaks out it's best dinnerware and serves a great meal: ·With all ~f the activities gomg on, sometime to . unwind in. a relaxing · atJ:nosphere is probably a welcQnie sight! Later on in the evening you'll l,lave .. an opportunity to work off all of tb.e food you've lll.anaged to eat. From lO:OChl:OO ,A.M. in Old Chapel and Hale Hom~e there will be ·a semi-formal dance DJ;ed by 'a Capital District favorite-WPYX 106-Albany. Listen to great music . and · enjoy the .fun during a night of dancing, entertainment, and refreshments. Academic life ••• Continued from page 1 one or more areas .of academic interest. The firSt session will be held from 9:45-10:15 a.m. The second session will be held from 10:30-11:00 a.m. \ As you ·can see, there is a lot Qf important activities planned for Monday morning, September 8th. We strongly urge all stgdents to pay particular attention to Monday's schedllle. Tuesday, September 9th, Academic Advis·ing appointments are scheduled individually for both freshmen and transfers. All· al'e pre- scheduled, and mandatory; to be·held during the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. As a courtesy to· both . yourself and yaUr. academic advisor, please come to these appointments prepared and ON TIME! ORIENTATION New Face Helps Remodel ;Unicrn By JtEU...Y LARKIN As is evident by the construction, our campus is undergoing some ·changes which Will produce a \m()re perfect Union.\ One of the construction sites iS our new College Center. · service, and many ·other campus offices~ In addition to the offices.,. the bookstore, maili'oom, movie theatre, pub and many gathering sites for the entire Union College community Will be centered there. administrators and students conducted· a rigorous interviewing process in order to appoint someone to the new position of Dire~_~ of the College Center ana ·Student Activities. The res~ of these interviews was the arrival of Miss Jerri Clark just last month. The new College Center will house student activities, student • affairs, residence life, food Since a great deal of Union's college life will revolve around the new College Center; last spring some of Union's Miss Clark comes to Union after spending her past four years at Rivier Conege in New Hampshir.e, as Assistant Vice President for Student Development. Miss Clark has .spent seven years in higher education after obtaining her B.A. in English and secondary education at Boston College, and also an M.A. in Counseling Psychology from Boston College. 1m:1. nwq lit. Alumni Gym When asked about her initial inter~st in the position of director of the College Center, she felt that it was a challenging opportunity with a lot of potential. Coming from Rivier . College with 600 female students to Union will also give her the opportunityto work with more students in a co- educational setting. We enCQurage you to stop and meet Miss Clark, become familiar with the extra curricular setting and discover what the College Center has to offer to you. Miss Clark's office is located on the third floor of Old Chapel. REMIND'ERS FOR NEW FRESHMEN AND TRANSFERS -FROM THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE, SILLMAN HALL >:-_ 1. ·When you meet with your adviser concerning courses, h.e/she will reconunend courses and write them on your schedule sheet. This is just a RECOMMENDATION AND DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY ENROLL YOU IN THAT PARTICULAR COURSE OR SECTION. If a ~ourse is closed you mus·t obtain WRITTEN permission from the instructor be·fore signing Lp for the course. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. ]. 8. Be sure tO! have several alternatives in !!lind in the event one (or more) of your courses is filled. Not every student will get their first choice, so don't .be disappointed! Students should have their adviser sign their schedule sheet so that the Registrar's Office knows that they have kept their appointment. Also, be sure to keep your Registration/Adviser Appointment Card with you so that the Registrar's Office knows you are showing up·at the right time. We realize that some appointments may run longer (or shorter) than expected, but we hope the students will show up at the Field House within 5-15 minutes of their schedule appointment for registration. If a course has an asterisk (*) marked next to the call number on the Fall Revised Cours'e Schedule, it means it was a card course last spring during preregistration, ·and therefore is limited in size. Even if there are still openings in these courses, the student MUST GET WRITTEN PERMISSION from the INSTRUCTOR (NOT THEIR ADVISER) and surrender it when they register at the Field House. Special permission is required if a student wishes to take more than the normal course load of three courses. The form is obtainable from the Registrar's Office station a-t the Field House, Special permission is also required to take LESS than the full ~ourse load, A note from y~ur adviser submitted in writing to the Regis- trar's Office is required in this case. Special permission is also required if a student wishes to take a course thrcugh the•Evening Division, designated as Sec. 51/52 (unless that course is listed on the day schedule of classes published by the Registrar's Office. PLEASE BE PATIENT WHILE WAITING TO SIGN UP FOR 'YOUR COURSES AT REGISTRATION. The staff of-the Registrar's Office will do the best they can! We appreciate your cooperation during thi~ final stage of Orientation. If a stude~t decides to change or alter his major he may do so now, but he must get his present adviser and department chairman to \sign\ him out of the major department. Then, he should obtain the permission and signature of his new major department chairman. The chairman will then assign him to an appropriate adviser from within his new academic department. The yellow \Change of Major\ form should be utilized for the signatures. 9. One final note.: DO NOT SWITCH SECTIONS OF A COURSE EVEN IF THEY ARE TAUGHT BY THE SAME PROFESSOR OR ARE AT THE SAME TIME. If a professor gives you permission to switch please get it IN WRITING and bring tbat permission to the Registrar's Office 0 at t:he Field House or after registration. to our regular office in Silliman Hall. Failure to notify ~s of a switch in courses may result in an \F\ on your transcript i JUST A ltEMINDER: \Pre''\\Registration (signing up for your ·courses for the next ~erm) ts held during the 8th and 9th weeks of the term. EVERYONE 1.s expected to preregister. There iS no fine if you do~ 't preregis~er however, you may not get your choices ;,f you wai~ unt1l registrat1on to sign up for courses. \REGISTRATION is held the first days of EACH TERM. EVE.RYONE IS EXPECTED TO REGISTER, i.e. FILL OUT A REGISTRATlON PACKET. .FAILURE TO DO SO WILT. RESULT IN A NON,-~FUNDABLE $25.00 late fee *Don't worry· OA's and OC members will be therl! to h&lp you through the process. - ...

CONCORDJENSIS Orientation issue, Sept. 6, 1986 Page3 Orientation Briefs Mountebanks Peiform Skits Life at Union in most instances can be characterized as typical, as many students share common experiences. In order to familiarize new students with situations that may occur, the Mountebanks will present a series of skits entitled, ''A day in your life at Union\. These skits will touch upon situations ranging from experiences at fraternity parties to breaking up with a girlfriend or boyfriend. The Mountebanks, a talented group of students, will entertain you with a surprisingly realistic and informative portrayal of life at U11ion.- \A day in your life at U11ion\ will take place on Saturday, September 6th at 7:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. On Tuesday, September 9th there will be RA discussions which will afford you with an opportunity to discuss with your RA's some of the scenes pDrtrayed in the show. Please make sure to come, who knows maybe some day in the futw-e YDU will be able to relate to a few ·of the topics. Orientation Activity Carnival Come one, come all, to the first ever orientation activity carnival. There will be an activity expo later this term, but for now we'd like to introduce you to some of the major campus activities and organizations. The carnival will take place on Monday, September 8th from 12: 15 to 3 p.m. in front of West college. There will be food, fun games, but most importantly you will have the cha11ce to ask questions about activities you may be interested in without feeling pressed for time. When you finish speaking with student forum members, crew and concert conunittee members you can hang out eat cotton candy and popcorn and perhaps get up a game of volleyball. So rernernber,Monday.Septer.nber 8th be at West college and enjoy g()od food, have fun and learn m()re about Student activities. Freshman Dinner Dance Have you been living in the same t-shirt and shorts for the past few days? Well, on Monday you'll have two reasons to hunt f()r something not so casual. First, there will be a relaxing semi-formal dinner in Hale House and Old Chapel Lower l.c!Wlge from 5:3o-7:00 P.M. Food Service will be out to impress when it breaks out it's best dinnerware and serves a great meal. With all of the activities going on, some time to u11wind in a relaxing atmosphere is probably a welcome sight! Later on in the evening you'll have an opportunity to work off all of the food you've managed to eat. From 10:00...1:00 A.M. in Old Cllapel and Hale House there will be a semi-formal dance DJ'ed by a Capital District favorite--WPYX 106-Albany. Listen to great music and e11joy the fun during a night of dancing, entertainment, and refreshments. Minerva Speaker Series The Minerva Committee of Union College invites speakers with varied backgroWlds to lecture from 11:30 to 12:30 every Wednesday morning. Minerva Hour is an excellent opportunity for students and professors to attend lectures presented by experienced and entertaining speakers. Pat Riley, coach of the L.A. Lakers will be here on September 17th. Eleanor Bawn who has served on the executive conunittee of the American Society of Engineering Education will be here on September 24th. You may refer to the first issue of the Concordiensis for the complete fall schedule of the Minerva hour speakers. New Student Picnic The new student picnic will be held on Stmday September 7th from 2:30 to 6:00 p.m. held at the Union College Girling Center, which is located about a mile from campus. Buses will be provided to meet your transportation needs and will be departing from the Davidson· Fox parking lots every fifteen minutes. This is the highlight of orientation and all who miss it will be sorely disappointed. .A barbecue will be held and many games will be available for all to participate . . . and the fWl doesn't end there, so make sure you attend for an all out afternoon offun and relaxation. Ice Cream Social The Ice Cream Social is an excellent way for new students to meet their fellow students. And that is exactly the reason why we hold this annual event. Not only is Ben and Jerry's (the best ice cream in the cotmtry) served but the West environment transcends its soon to be familiar appearance and becomes a place of true social interaction. The Ice Cream Social will be held between the hours of 9:45 p.m. and 11: 30 p.m. Saturday, September 6th. As an added feature, a record hop will be provided so that you all can dance between scoops. Hope to see you all there. It will be a heck of a lot of fun. Academic Life ••• Continued from page 1 one or more areas of academic interest. The first session will be held from 9:45-10:15 a.m. The second session will be held from 10:30-11:00 a.m. As you can see, there is a lot of important activities planned for Monday morning, September 8th. We strongly urge all students to pay particular attention to Monday's schedule. Tuesday, September 9th, Academic Advising appointments are scheduled individually for both freshmen and transfers. All are pre- scheduled, and mandatory; to be ·held during the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. As a courtesy to both yourself and yaur academic advisor, please come to these appointments prepared and ON TIME! ORIENTATION New Face Helps Remo·del Unicn By KELLY LARKIN .As is evident by the construction, our campus is undergoing some changes which will produce a ''more perfect Union.\ One of the construction sites is our new College Center. The new College Center will house student activities, student affairs, residence life, food service, and many other campus offices. In addition to the offices, the bookstore, mailroom, movie theatre, pub and many gathering sites for the entire Union College community will be centered there. Since a great deal of Union's college life will revolve aroWld the new College Center, last spring some of Union's Alumni Gym administrators and students conducted· a rigorous interviewing process in order to appoint someone . to the new position of DireWi{JJ of the College Center ana · Student Activities. The res~ of these interviews was the arrival of Miss Jerri Clark just last month. Miss Clark comes to Union after spending her past four years at Rivier College in New Hampshire, as Assistant Vice President for Student Development. Miss Clark has spent seven years in higher education after obtaining her B.A. in English and secondary education at Boston College, and also an M.A. in Counseling Psychology from Boston College. When asked about her initial interest in the position of director of the College Center, she felt that it was a challenging opportunity with a lot o.f potential. Coming from Rivier College with 600 female students to Union will also give her the opportunity to work with more students in a co- educational setting. We encourage you to stop and meet Miss Clark, become familiar with the extra curricular setting and discover what the College Center has to offer to you. Miss Clark's office is located on the third floor of Old Chapel. REMINDERS FOR NEW FRESHMEN AND TRANSFERS -FROM THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE, SILLMAN HALL 1. When you meet with your adviser concerning courses, he/she will reco~nend courses and write them on your schedule sheet. This is just a RECOMMENDATION AND DOES NOT AUTOMATICALLY ENROLL YOU IN THAT PARTICULAR COURSE OR SECTION. If a course is closed you must obtain WRITTEN permission from the instructor before signing LP for the course. 2. Be sure to have several alternatives in ~ind in the event one (or more) of your courses is filled. Not every student will get their first choice, so don't be disappointed! 3. Students should have their adviser sign their schedule sheet so that the Registrar's Office knows that they have kept their appointment. Also, be sure to keep your Registration/Adviser Appointment Card with you so that the Registrar's Office knows you are showing up at the right time. We realize that some appointments may run longer (or shorter) than expected, but we hope the students will show up at the Field House within 5-15 minutes of their schedule appointment for registration. 4. If a course has an asterisk (*) marked next to the call number on the Fall Revised Course Schedule, it means it was a card course last spring during preregistration, 'and therefore is limited in size. Even !f there are still openings in these courses, the student MUST GET WRITTEN PERMISSION from the INSTRUC!OR (NOT THEIR ADVISER) and surrender it when they register at the Field House. 5. Special permission is required if a stt.•dent wishes to take more than the normal course load of three courses. The form is obtainable from the Registrar's Offic~ station at the Field House. Special permission is also required to take LESS than the full course load. A note from your adviser submitt~d in writing to the Regis- trar's Office is required in this case. 6. Special permission is also required if a student wishes to take J cuurse thrc'•Jgh the•Evening Division, designated as Sec. 51/52 (unless thdt C('urse i\ listed ,Jr. the day schedule of classes published by the Registrar's Office. 7. PLEASE BE PATIENT WHILE WAITING TO SIGN UP FOR YOUR COURSES AT REl;ISTRAJION. The staff of the Registrar's Office will do the best thev cAn! W\ appreci.:Jt<- your cooperation during this final stage of Orientation. 8. If a student decides to change or alter his major he may do so now, but he musl get his present adviser and department chairman to \sign\ him out of the major department. Then, he should obtain the permission and signature of his new major department chairman. The chairman will then assign him to an apprvpriat,' adviser fr.om within his new academic department. The yellow \Change of Major\ form should be utilized for the signatures. 9. One final note: DO NOT SWITCH SECTIONS OF A COURSE EVEN IF THEY ARE TAUGHT BY THE SAME PROFESSOR OR ARE AT THE SAME TIME. If a professor gives you permission t(, switch, please get it IN WRITING and bring that permission to the Re~istrar'~ . Office at the Field House, or after registration, to our regular off1ce in S1ll1man 1 . \F\ Hall. 'Failure to notify us of a switch in courses may resu t 1n an on yuur transcript! JUST A REMINDER: \Pre\-Registration (signing up for your courses for the next term) is held during the 8th and 9th weeks of the term. EVERYONE is expected to preregister. There is no fine if you don't preregister however, you may not get your choices if you wait until registration to sign up for courses. \REGISTRATION\ is held the first days of EACH TERM. EVERYONE IS EXPECTED TO REGISTER, i.e. FILL OUT A REGISTRATlON PACKET. FAILURE TO DO SO WILL RESULT IN A NON-REFUNDABLE $25.00 late fee *Don't worry· OA's and oc members will be there to help you through the process. .., ..

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS Orientation Issue, Sept. 6, 1986 Sept. 6, 1986 Charlie Slotnlk Lookin.g at Sports Editorts Note: The following article has been reprinted from the May 22 issue of Con- cordiensis and represents excerpts of a:n interview with Union football coach AI Bagnoli. Union's tooth Year of Football \Our recruiting was solid, but not exceptional,\ said Bagnoli. Last year, Bagnoli believed he had the best recruiting year since taking over as the head coach in 1982, and this year it was tough to duplicate. However, Bagnoll has filled his most prominent needs. He concentrated heavily on recruiting offensive ·and defensive linemen, linebackers and quarterbacks, and is quite satisfied with the entering class of freshmen. \We are recruiting on a . different level than most other Division 3 schools. Most of the kids we recruit are capable of playing 1-AA ball sometime during their college career, and as a result we're losing kid$ to the Ivy's said Bagnoli. Although 'sagnoli . believes Union lost many quality players to other schools for a variety of reasons, he emphasizes the size, · . speed, and overall balance of the players coming to Union thisyear. . . Recruiting has taken Bagnob and his staff across the country as evident by the geographic diversity of the plilyers <>n the current roster. However., Bagnoli concentrates on . New Jersey Connecticut, New York, and Massachusetts. ''Union's academic diversity, and the school's football program make Union an impressive place for prospective athletes,\ says BagnolL Strength at Quarterback Although Bagnoll recruited quarterbacks he says frankly, . 'I'll be surprised if Mike Garguilo is not our starting quarterback. He•n have to go out of his way not to have that position,'' Essentially Bagnoli wants to be able to teach the offensive system t(J the new quarterbacks, so that they'll be prepared when Garguilo graduates. Moreover. Garguilo was the only quaL\- terback at Union since the :withdrawal of J~y Wood from school, and since the coach moved from Shenendahowa standout, Ed O'Day to linebacker, After 1987 there will be some chang-es to the tradithmal schedule. Traditional rivals and NESCAC opponents, Williams, Middlebury and Colby will depart. from the Dutchmen's · schedule, and such school as local rival Albany St., Get- tysburg, Franklin and Mar- shall, and Swarthmore will gradually be added to the schedule. Since Union has been so successful the past few years, there has been some talk about playing a Divbion 2, . or 1-AA schedule. But Bagnoli has ll() desire to drastically change th<:l schedule. We have been. playing the same type of schedule for 8() years, and there's no concretE reason to change now,\ said Bagnoli. Coaches Often Make The Difference The outlook for the 1900 season is optimistic. Union seems to have many excellent players at key positions, and depth in virtually ev~ry position. Furthermore, Umon has coaches that are willing to put in countless hours of their time throughout the year to ensure the success of the team in the fall. ''The amount of effort recruiting, and analyzing films is a key to our success. We have good players here, but we also have. good coaches. A lot of good teams don't win with talented kids/' added Bagnoli. . The past three seasons the Union Football team has received many honors. They have done everything there is to do except one t~ing~ .win a National Champ10nsh1p. AI Bagnoli does not seem pressured into b.eliev~.ng .a National Champ10nsh1p 15 something he must Win, but in the lOOth season of Union football it would certainly be appropriate. ' . ' i

Page4 CONCORDJENSIS Orientatitm Issue, Sept. 6, 1986 Sept. 6, 1986 Charlie Slotnlk Looking at Sports Editor's Note: The fvllowing article has been reprinted from the May 22 issue of Con- cordiensis and represents excerpts of an interview with Union football coach AI Bagnoli. Union's tOoth Year of Football \Our recruiting was solid, but not exceptional,\ said Bagnoli. Last year, Bagnoli believed he had the best recruiting year since taking over as the head coach in 1982, and this year it was tough to duplicate. However, Bagnoli has filled his most prominent needs. He concentrated heavily on recruiting offensive and defensive linemen, linebackers and quarterbacks, and is quite satisfied with the entering class of freshmen. \We are recruiting on a different level than most other Division 3 schools. Most of the kids we recruit are capable of playing 1-AA ball sometime during their college career, and as a result we're losing kids to the Ivy's, said Bagnoli. Although Bagnoli believes Union lost many quality players to other schools for a variety of reasons, he emphasizes the size, speed, and overall balance. of the players coming to Unum thisyear. . Recruiting has taken Bagnoh and his staff across the country as evident by the geographic diversity of the players on the current roster. Ho\vever:, Bagnoli concentrates on New Jersey, Connecticut, New York, and Massachusetts. \Union's academic diversity, and the school's football program make Union an impressive place for prospective athletes,\ says Bagnoli. Strength at Quarterbaek Although Bagnoli recruited quarterbacks he says frankly, 'I'll be surprised if Mike Garguilo is not our starting quarterback. He'll have to go out of his way not to have that position,\ Essentially Bagnoli wants to be able to teach the offensive system to the new quarterbacks, so that they'll be prepared when Garguilo graduates. Moreover. Garguilo was the only quar- terback at Union since the withdrawal of Jay Wood from school, and since the coach moved from Shenendahowa standout, Ed O'Day to linebacker. After 1987 there will be some changes to the traditional schedule. Traditional rivals and NESCAC opponents, Williams, Middlebury and Colby will depart from the Dutchmen's schedule, and such school as local rival Albany St., Get- tysburg Franklin and Mar- shall, ~nd Swarthmore will gradually be added to the schedule. Since Union has been so successful the past few years, there has been some talk about playing a Division 2, or 1-AA schedule. But Bagnoli has no desire to drastically change the schedule. We have been playing the same type of schedule for 80 years and there's no concrete reaso~ to change now,\ said Bagnoli. Coaches Often Make The Difference The outlook for the 1986 season is optimistic. Union seems to have many excellent players at key positions, and depth in virtually ev~ry position. Furthermore, Umon has coaches that are willing to put in c01mt1ess hours of their time throughout the year to ensure the success of the team in the fall. \The amount of effort recruiting, and analyzing films is a key to our success. We have good players here, but we also have good coaches. A lot of good teams don't win with talented kids,\ added Bagnoli. The past three seasons the Union Football team has received many honors. They have done everything there is to do except one thing, win a National Championship. Al Bagnoli does not seem pressured into b_eliev~ng _a National Champ1onsh1p 1s something he must win, but in the 100th season of Union football it would certainly be appropriate.

lege.1877 CXVI,N:o .. 2 S h i\!.F..c-~i..·. . c enectauy, l~ew York September 18, 1986 President Morris Details Responsihilities of Position. ·. $·80 Million Office C.omplex D:eseribes Goals for Union Planned for Downtown Schenectady ByDAVIDGULLIV~R Editor's Nete~ In this two· part intervlew, _President John s. Morris describes his responsibilities and goals at Union, .pr~-viding a view on the side of Union uot \Usually recognized by students. Next week's see'(iou. wlll focus on how President Morris personally influences Union. . DG: What goals did you have when you came here; which of them ha:ve you accomplished and which have you not? PM: That~s a terribly di£ficult question to answer · because when I came here Union had just g~me through some con· flicts bet·ween the previous president and the college (the hockey scandal in 197S ), but that was jnst a surface issue. MY first aim was to restate the traditional role of the college as a Iibera} arts coUege with engj.neering and reinforce that role. In many ways the concern wa$ to get the college on the traditional track - which it never really lost. It wasn't really putting back on track but rather to reaffirm the direction for the fac::tilty- and board. · · That was the first thing. The second wast() see that Union did all it could tD at least maintain its position as a highly selective institution and to become even more ·competitive. When we really began t~ !ook at this, two things became apparent: the need for fmancial resources and for a t(lta1 upgrading of facilities. The residence halls were in disarray; the groWlds were not. as well kept as possible; the buildings were functional but not always designed to meet the function they were being used for .. The. \Campaign for Union\ had been started; I thought it was very lttlportant that we carry on with. that. Qur goal was a doubling of tb.e endowment., and we were successful. DG: You meritloned restating the traditional role of the college. Flow did you go about ... PM: Well, as a matter of fact I didn't ha:ve to do much. (laughs). DG: It wasn't a matter of replacing pecple or... . PM: NCl, I just had to make sure the faeulty knew what my position was. I was just reaf- firming what was here.It was a matter of making both everyday and long-term decisions in terms of a generally accepted view of my position. ·. DG: Wllat are your objectives for Union's development over the next five years and how do you plan to achieve them? PM: I think that this is a year when we start looking. As l said to the facultY Wednesday night (Sept. 3)., we are coming this year tQ the end of a series . of plannlng initiatives. . For example, it is th~ end of . the computef c~~tel'_ f~ve-yea.J.'. ~~~· It is a good year to start taking Stock. DG: But do you have any definite ideas that you W()uld like to see? · · PM: When you ask for ide!)S it is hard for me to come up with anything particular ... One clear guiding principle is that we are moving towards our bicen- tennial Hn 1995) and we sh()uld therefore start thinking about the emerging problems of the 90's, such as demographic issues. DG: Could y()u detail that? PM: Well, not only is the number of students leaving high school declining, but the mix is · different. There are an in- creasing number of minority students. You can look at California today as an example. We have to continue to at1ract students from a declining n11q1ber of applicants. So,. the major issue for me is a con- tinuation of the affirmation of quality. That is why we are increasing the riambd of facu1ty. · DG: What can we expect iii terms of numbers? PM: This figure, I believe, is at least ten. DG: Ten new faculty? PM: At leastten. Of cour~e, in terms of attracting first rate facu1ty, it is to our advantage to . help them deal with the level of quality we expect. DG: By reducing course loads?. PM: Yes, reducing cClurse loads. DG: This may be a 'little redundant, but what do y()u see as the major problems facing the Union community and what Continued on.page 2 By DEBRA B. HONIG ' Assistant to the President Jack Maranville comments on the Florida real estate developer Julian R. Kossow announced plans in late August to build an $80,000,000 office complex in Schenectady which, according to city officials, will be perhaps the most elaborate project ever to come to the city. proposed tax bill. P~oposed Federal. Tax Bi II B·iased Against Private' Col·leges The project, which is designed as a three-.phase building complexf will be ex~ elusively for office space so as not to detract from the surrounding retail market. Wllile the coWlty is considering locating some of its offices in ,th-e building, prospective Six Reform Provisions Will Place Pressure on Institutions :By CHRISTINE ~ONG ~ The tax bill of 1986 awaits finaPpf.lssage by the U.S. Senate and the l{ouse of Represen- tatives this fall. Along With it, universities and colleges across the nation. await with concern and un·certainty a:bout the results that the tax legislation could have. At this point, there can be only speculation of ·the full impact of the bill on colleges and universities; however, major higher · education organiz~tions, such as the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities and the American Council on Education, are already annoWicing that \the bill would discriminate between public and private institutions,\ according to The New York Times, August 21, 1986. If the tenants include high bill ~ passed, they forecast te.chnological computer ser- seri()US econorilic problems for vices, banks, and insurance C\llleges an<} univer-sities· within- . \·esmpanje~. ___ AC<;9r~in~ . -tAl- . the next few years. Results · President I;)f the: :~ · . ; ~ ,. · col.lld be .lack of funds for · Economi¢:. Pevelif ' t,; :Cor· modernization of campuses and · poration '~or~ t; ,.:.. ·.~ .:tteY'»1 facilities, fewer faculty and ··~asical!y Ws . all,'x':.:· · t staff, as well as further dr1ven--Kossowsmd'th >a pressure on graduate and need in the Schenectaay area financial aid students. -for major market space:· Here are the six major The site chosen for the project changes provided in the new tax is within close distance of bill that will affect colleges and · Interstate 890, bordered by the universities: , Canal' Square retail-offic-e . Taxpayers' incentives to complex and adjacent to make donations to colleges and Proctor's Theatre. The initial universities would be reduced crmstruction of a five level, 750 since the bill would eliminate car parking garage, t()pped by these from being claimed as nine stories of office space will giftsto charity and by repealing cover Broadway, Clinton, and .a number of itemized deduc- Smith Streets. The second tions for the individual. section of the structure will Scholarships and fellowships, involve a ten-story office · if used to help pay for students' building, which will be an ex- Changes .l·n Financial Aid Help and Hinder ·Students living costs, would be taxable. tension of the existing five level .Also, deductions for interest parking garage, and the last paid on student loans would be phase will encompass a six- eliminated. story office building 011 top of the garage at the corner of Colleges and univers1ties Broadway and Hamilttm. wouldhaveto offer most of their Joanne M. DeVoe of the employees the same tax- Schenectady County Chamber deferred retirement plans that ()f Commerce commented on they offer to their facllii.ies. the flexibility of the plans foe By SANDRA. ROTH Financial aid enables \\many people to attend college, even with limited family resources. Therefore, it is imperative that students understand this system. During the summer, changes were made on the . federal and state levels ()( the · • financial aid program that both benefit and hann scholars. The Consolidated· Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act (COBRA), a bill in Congi-ess, is causing changes in the processing of aid applications .. The first variation is tlle in~ troduction of verification. As Magda M. Mininl>erg, assistant director of financial aid at Union, explains, · verification is a process where · the ''government aslcs the Financial Aid Office to verify information far funds by collection of income tax fcmns, names of household members, number in college, and signatures.\ These pap~s are compared with the original aid application. Still ill existence is validation by random checking. Here, the student reviews his fonns and corrects mistakes on a separate sheet. With verification; if one item is incorrect, you must change everything, thereby creating more paperwork. At · Union, students and their families must do this. The Financial Aid Office would like to take this burden from the families' hands to verify the applications them· selves. Across the country, colleges and universities are already installing new systems to accomplish this. Anotber change concerns the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL). The purpose of the GSL is to allow loans to be made, regardless of credit ratings, to students. The subsidized in\ terest payment is handled by · the United States Office of · Education and state agencies. It Continued on. page 3 Donations of appreciated the complex by saying, \The property, such as stocks and . beauty !}bout it is thati£ it's : oi\c bQnds., wouldnolon_gerbeable to building) enough, we cart stov Continued on page 2 Continued !tn page 2 ' ·' . \ 'i

j ,. CXVI, No.2 President Morris D,etails Responsibilities of Position Describes Goals for Union By DAVID GULLIVER Editor's Note: In this two· part interview, President John S. Morris describes his responsibilities and goals at Union, providing a view on the side of Union not usually recognized by students. Next week's section will focus on how President Morris personally influences Union. DG: What goals did you have when you came here; which of them have you accomplished and which have you not? PM: That's a terribly difficult question to answer because when I came here Union had just gone through some con· flicts between the previous president and the college (the hockey scandal in 1978), but that was just a surface issue. My first aim was to restate the traditional role of the college as a liberal arts college with engineering and reinforce that role. In many ways the concern was to get the college on the traditional track - which it never really lost. It wasn't really putting back on track but rather to reaffirm the direction for the faculty and board. It is a good ye;ar- t(} start taking stock. DG: But ,do y<Ju have aay definite ideas tbat you would like to see? PM: When y()u ask for ideas it is hard for me to come up with anything particul.ar ... One clear guiding principle is that we are moving tow11.rds our bicen· tennial (in 199;j) and we should therefore start thinking aboat the emerginfl problems of the 90's, such a.s demographic issues. DG: Could y()u cletail that? PM: Well, net only is the number of st11dents leaving high school declining, llut the mix is different. 'rhtere are an in· creasing nmber of minority students. Yo11 can look at California today as an example. We have to (!Ontlnue to attract students fr~m a declining number of applicants. So, the major issue for me is a con· tinuation of the affirmation of quality. That is why we are increasing the numiJ~r of faculty. · DG: Wbat can we expect in terms of numbers? PM: This fi~ure, I believe, is at least ten. DG: Ten new faculty? PM: At leastten. Of course, in terms of attracting first rate faculty, it is tD our advantage to help them de11l with the level of quality we eJqJect. DG: By reducing course loads? PM: Yes, redacing course loads. DG: This may be a little redundant, btllt wllat do you see as the major pr<Jblems facing the Union coiD!Ilunity and what Co11ti11ued on page ~ t' .,.;~ '' Schc~~·cractY/~~w York .... OJ .0 :l .... 0 \\0 > ro 0 >- .0 0 .... 0 .r:: 0.. Assistant to the President J.ack Maranville comments on the proposed tax bill. Proposed Federal Tax Bill Biased Against Private Colleges Six Reform Provisions Will Place Pressure on Institutions By CHRISTINE HONG Times, August 21, 1986. If the -t bill is passed, they forecast The tax bill of 1986 awaits serious economic problems for final>passage by the U.S. Sen2te colleges and universities within and the House of Represen· the next few years. Results tatives this fall. Along with it, could be lack of funds for universities and colleges across modernization of campuses and the nation await with concern facilities, fewer faculty and and uncertainty about tlle staff, as well as further results that the tax legislation pressure on graduate and could have. At this point, there financial aid students. can be only speculation of the Here are the six major full impact of the bill on colleges changes provided in the new tax and universfties; however, bill that will affect colleges and major higher education universities: organizations, such as the Taxpayers' incentives to National Association ()f make donations to colleges and Independent Colleges aod universities would be reduced Universities and the American since the bill would eliminate Council on Education, are these from being claimed as already announcing that \tlle gifts to charity and by repealing bill would discriminate between a number of itemized deduc- public and private institutions.\ tions for the individual. according to The New York Scholarships and fellowships, if used to help pay for students' September 18, 1986 $80 Million Office Complex Planned for Downtown Schenectady By DEBRA B. HONIG Florida real estate developer Julian R. Kossow announced plans in late August to build an $80,000,000 office complex in Schenectady which, according to city officials, wi1l be perhaps the most elaborate project ever to come to the city. The project, which is designed as a three-phase building complex, will be ex- clusively for office space so as not to detract from the surrounding retail market. While the coWlty is considering locating some of Its offices in the building, prospective tenants include high technological computer ser- vices, banks, and insurance companies. According to President of the :Schenectady Economic Development Cor- poration G.eorg~ T ... ~t.J:mrtZ1:•;», \Basically Ws all \:ina,rket driven--Kossow said thetrew:as a need in the Schenectady area for major market space.\ That was the first thing. The second was to see that Union did all it could to at least maintain its position as a highly selective institution and to become even more competitive. When we really began to look at this, two things became apparent: the need for financial resources and for a total upgrading of facilities. The residence halls were in disarray; the grounds were not as well kept as possible; the buildings were functional but not always designed to meet the function they were being used for. The \Campaign for Union\ had been started; I thought it was very important that we carry on with that. Our goal was a doubling of the endowment, and we were successful. Changes In Financial Aid Help and Hinder Students living costs, would be taxable. Also, deductions for interest paid on student loans would be eliminated. Colleges and universities would have to offer most of their employees the same tax- deferred retirement plans that they offer to their facllides. The site chosen for the project is within close distance of Interstate 890, bordered by the Canal Square retail-offic.\ C!}mplex and adjacent to PrL1ctor's Theatr~. The initial Cllnstruction of a five level, 750 car parking garage, topped by nine stories of office space wil! cover Broadway, Clinton, and Smith Streets. The second section of the structure will involve a ten·story office building, which will be an ex- tension of the existing five level parking garage, and the last phase will encompass a six- story office building on top of the garage at the corner of Broadway and Hamilt~n. Joanne M. DeVoe of the Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce commentt>d on the flexibility of the plans fr.c the complex by saying, \Tt beauty about it is that if it's tJii< building) enough, we can stulJ DG: You mentioned restating the traditional role of the college. How did you go about ... PM: Well, as a matter of fact I didn't have to do much. (laughs). DG: It wasn't a matter of replacing people or ... PM: No, I just had to make sure the faculty knew what my position was. I was just reaf- firming what was here. It was a matter of making both everyday and long-term decisions in terms of a generally accepted view of my position. DG: What are your objectives for Union's development over the next five years and how do you plan to achieve them? PM: I think that this is a year when we start looking. As I said to the faculty Wednesday night (Sept. 3), we are corning this year to the end of a series of planning initiatives. For example, it is the end of the computer center five-year ~l~n. By SANDRA ROTII Financial ;aid enables many people to attend college, even with limited family resources. Therefore, it is imperative that students understand this system. During the summer, changes wue made on the federal and ~tate levels of the financial aid program that both benefit ami harm scholars. The Co11sdidated Omnibus Budget R.e conciliation Act (COBRA), ~ bill in Congress, is causing cl1a11ges in the processing o:f aid applications. The first variation is the in- troduction ~f verification. As Magda M. Mininberg, assistant direct<lr of financial aid at Union, explains, verificatim is a process where the \government asks the Financial .Aid Office to verify informatloll f()r funds by collection of inc<Jrne tax forms, names of l:ll)useh()ld members, number in C()llege, and signatures.\ These papers are compared with the original aiel application. Still in existence is validation by random checking. Here, the student reviews his forms ancl corrects mistakes on a separate sheet. With verification, if <Jne item is incorrect, you mll.St change everything, thereby creating more paperworlt. At Union, students and thek families must do this. The Financial Aid Office would lilte to take this burden from the families' hands to verify the applications them· selves. Across the country, colleges and universities are already installing new systems to accomplish this. Another change concerns the Guaranteed Student Loan (GSL). The purpose of the GSL is to allow loans to be made, regardless of credit ratings, h students. The subsidized in- terest payment is handled by the United States Office of Education and state agencies. It Continued on page 3 Donations of appreciated property, such as stocks and bonds, would nolongerbeable to Continued on page 2 Continued on page 2 In This l~sue: New Student Center Dh~ector .. p. 6 Election Races to Begin .. p.9 Dutchmen Triumph OYer Hobart .. p.l6 -~ ' ' \ ' . ' . ' . . . '' ' . I . ' ' ' . . • •. - . ' ~ ' I ' ' ' '

. ' -' ' •' • ·~ ~ '• I, \ • . ' .~· \\-' Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, September 18, 1986 Morris ~nticipates Future Problems Sees l9U7 As Turning Point President Morris talks about his daily activities on ana• off the campus. Continued from page 1 do you plan to do to remedy them? PM: One inunediate problem is that we were more succeSSful thisyearthanwe expected to be in attracting freshmen. I think that this is an immediate problem which brings up several other problems, sq.ch as how do we deal with residential life and its capacity to adapt to the situation. DG: Do you e:x;pect to tell the admissions office to lower the number of acceptances it gives out? PM: The admissions office was not at fault; they accepted the amount of people they thought would provide the correct number of freshmen and their estimate was very accurate. The problem that we also saw last year b'l that mol:\e 1986 Tax Proposal Wiii·Discourage Independent Contributions To Colleges Continued from page 1 be claimed as tax deductions at the current market value. Private institutions would only be allowed to issue a limit of $150 million in tax-exempt bonds~ Parents would no longer be able to transfer income to their children in order to be taxed at the children's rate. This practice is often done as a me:;ans to save for college tuition. \The bill would discriminate between public and private in- stitutions.\ The American Council on Education. . · •..• Perhaps the ~atgest impact . Jll@t tfj~ bill will h;t:ve on the .. :colleges will ~·the change in QQ!}ations and ~s ~o the school due: lQ , the fewer · incentives offered to the taxpayer. However, it seems that this provision in the taxbill has little chance of being changed. The reductions and even eliminations of incentives for the individual and corporate taxpayer is the main purpose of the tax reform bill. The plan benind the bill is that by eliminating tax breaks, income tax rates will be able to drop to a maximum of 28 percent for individuals and 34 percent for corporations. James A. · Baker, U.S. Treasury Secretary, supporter of the bill, said that this bill, which might be upsetting for short term goals, it is \for the long term good of the people.\ The benefit should be apparent after approximately two years. Furthermore, Union College Assistant to the President, Jack Maranville, commented that the bill has yet to be passed through Congress. He also noted that the clear impact that this proposed bill could have on the school is not certain. He did say that Union College would have no problem observing the $150 million cap set on the issuing of tax ex:empt bonds. He did criticize the bill concerning the elimination of deductions for interest paid on students' loans; however, he did not mention any possible solutions for those with the loans. At tile present, the general public knows little about the details of the new tax bill. However, the idea of tax reform has been in Washington since the presidency of Jimmy Carter. The first major step that was taken to inspire a new tax code was the Bradley- Gephardt bill of 1982. However, it was not until Reagan's second term run for presidency that the idea of tax reform gained momentum. Supposedly, the proposed 'supply side' tax bill will shift $120 billion of the tax burden from the individual taxpayers to the corporate taxpayers. If the bill is passed this fall, it will become effective in 1987. Office Comp,lex Will Provid.e Jobs and Services For City Continued from page 1 right there.\ If the entire plan is completed, however, it will encompass 450,000 square feet of Class A office space which would provide an incredible vista of Schenectady's business district and Mohawk River. Award-winning Dean of the Columbia University School of Architecture James Stewart Polshek designed the complex in the contemporary style. Although, according to Robertson, \They don't stick out like aliens.\ Robertson said th.1t this extensfve office project will not only provide more services for the city, but will create some 2,000 jobs as well. Leasers will pay special at- tentionto those business owners who might have otherwise moveo out of the Schenectady business district if it were not for this production. The rental soace for all tenants will run approximately $13 per square foot. As for financing the project, Kossow. must provide for $50,000,000 of thetotal cost. This $50,000,000 will go toward building the office space, while · the city is responsible to finance .the car garages. The city will t~ke advantage of public funds in order to build the Jirst garage, and the money made from tlie use of this garage will contribute toward the budget of the second garage. The stage plans. are in now have been the result of some 18 months of work. Robertson estimates that the first building might be completed by next summer. The backbone of the project has been the confidence the governmental agencies have shown in the success of this going through, and the key has been the cooperation between the city and the builders. Jewish Student Union Fall Calendar September 26 . Friday Night Lecture Series- TBA- 7:00p.m. in Kosher Kitchen October 3 - Eve of Rosh Hashana - Home hospitality for students unable to go home. Also car-pools to Conservative and Refonn synagogues. 10- Friday Night Lecture Series- Ariel Hurwitz, Director of Ha Shomer Ha Tzair youth movement-7:00p.m. in Kosher Kitchen 1 2 -Eve of Yom Kippur -carpools to Conservative and Reform Syngogues 13 -Yom Kippur breakfast- 6:30 in Kosher Kitchen 17 -Sukkot Sukkah Building Party in Jackson's Garden 24 - Friday Night Lecture Series.- TBA ·.7:00p.m. in Kosher Kitchen 26- Simchat Torah Party- TBA November 2 - BaKe Is in Bee . . , i -1-'nday Night LectureSeries-TBA-7:00p.rn. mKo~herK1tchen . . . . En.·r~· Fn day night the JSU sponsors aShabbat meal mthe Kos~er Kitchen at 6:.00 p.m.; seJVIces are at 5,:30 p.m, _All are welcome. Dues this year are $15 freshmen Jfree T-shtrt), and $10upper classmen. For mort.•wformation contact I...aurel Agris (x:4292J or Mitchell Stein 377..0208. Or write to the JStJ atBox2525. students seem to be returning iJl their re~t1~ar sequence and fewer students are dropping out for a term. This seems to be .a change in a trend.. · DG: This (increase in fresh- men) is not an intentional change, then- you have no plans to Increase the school's size? PM: No, no. We intend to remain a small college. DG: Union made a little mistake in getting this extra number of students which causes a fairly substantial financial windfall. What might happen with this money? PM: Well, first of all, it isn't aU that much when you consider finanCial aid to those student s ... But we've always takerr the view that we shouldn't spend all · that money 011 trivial things; it's more importaQt to build up long term resources. The second thing is that it might help us put some finishing touches on construction. DG: What abQut less im- mediate concerns in other areas? PM: I think we need to .pay attention to curricular issues. I see the proposed Liberal Learning curriculwn changes, which are under review, as very important. I am concerned about the trend toward pre,profe:Ssionalism, the pressures to ,make that training paramount. It is important but it must be within the context of a strong liberal arts education. People from Uniol! have a good . grounding in liberal studies. DG: Isn't that one of the trends that the business world talks about..-hiringpeople with a more broad education instead of, say, business students? ,PM: The trends suggest that · btisinesses are beginning to act on their rhetoric and hire students in that matmer . DG: This question is one I think a lot of students would like to know. What does a typical day's schedule look like for you; also, what does your monthly schedule look like? PM: (Taking an index card from his jacket pocket) Today I had a Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce meeting at 8:00; this interview at 9:30; I have a budget meeting With the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and the Vice-President for Business and Administration at 10:30; I teach class this afternoon; after class, I have a meeting with the. Vice- President for Academic Mfairs. Sometimes I also have a reception or dinner in the evening or a meeting over lunch.· For the month, well, this weekend I am traveling to a confe.rence for independent colleges 011 Sunday; Monday I am on the panel at the con- fevence; on Tuesday I will be back to teach •class. Tuesday evening I have a meeting with the executive board of the Board of Trustees. I will return Wednesday; on Thqrsday more meetings ... the month carries on about like that. · DG: What do you see as your primary responsibilities as a college president and what unusual responsibilities do you have as President of Union? ·PM; The President is ·responsible to the ' Board ( 9f Trustees) .for the .proper working of the · college. The president has to make sure it is fiscally sound; has to make certain that faculty concerns are properly expressed and that curricular issues have pr~per airing. In a general sense, the president sets the tone for the college. The president .must be very much aware that he or she acts as a proper representative. The primary responsibilities are the standards and quality of the college and its ongoing viability. Those are the internal responsibilities. The president also bas to represent the college to an outside set of con- stituencies--the alumni body is one such gr()up. The college depends in part upon alumni for resources so that duty is im- portant. The president also has to be very concerned with the ' college's good r~presentation to foundations, which also provide resources. I.n New York, as President of Union College, I have to represent the independent sector to the state. legislature. I served as Chairman of the Commission on Independent Colleges. I am the represen- tative of the College to Schenectady and serve on several local boards, including the Chamber of Commerce. It is my concern that Schenectady remains a strong and vital community in which we exist. OVerall, I believe that as President. I am representing an intellectual point ·of view. that serves as a direction for ·the college. Thursday Night, Sept. 18th 10:00 p.m. Old Chapel ACT 1: JEFF LAWRENCE ACT2: TO BE ANNOU·NCED PRICE: $1.50 includes soda, chips and pretzels Cheese and Crackers also available· ..

Fagc 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Septemba 18, 1986 Morris Anticipates Future Problems Sees 1937 As Turning Point President Morris talks about his daily activities on and off the campus. Continued from page 1 do you plan to do to remedy them? PM: One immediate problem is that we were more successful this year than we expected to be in attracting freshmen. I think that this is an immediate prob1em which brings up several other problems, such as how do we deal with residential life and its capacity to adapt to the situation. DG: Do you expect to tell the admissions office to lower the number of acceptances it gives out? PM: The admissions office was not at fault; they accepted the amount of people they thought would provide the correct number of freshmen and their estimate was very accurate. The problem that we also saw last year is that more 1986 Tax Proposal Will Discourage Indep·endent Contributions To Colleges l~ontinued fr()m page 1 be clai.Ined as tax deductions at the current market value. Private institutions would only be allowed to issue a limit of $150 million in tax-exempt bonds. Parents would no longer be able to transfer income to their children in order to be taxed at the children's rate. This practice is often done as a me!lns to save for college tuition. \The bill would discriminate between public and private in- stitutions.\ through Congress. He also noted that the clear impact that this proposed bill could have on the school is not certain. He did say that Union College would have no problem observing the $150 million cap set on the issuing of tax exempt bonds. He did criticize the bill concerning the elimination of deductions for interest paid on students' loans; however, he did not mention any possible solutions for those with the loans. At the present, the general public knows little about the details of the new tax bill. However, the idea of tax reform has been in Washington since the presidency of Jimmy Carter. The first major step that was taken to inspire a new tax code was the Bradley- Gephardt bill of 1982. However, it was not until Reagan's second term rWl for presidency that the idea of tax reform gained momentum. Supposedly, the proposed 'supply side' tax bill will shift $12() billion of the tax burden from the individual taxpayers to the corporate taxpayers. If the bill is passed this fall, it will become effective in 1987. The American Council on Education. Perhaps the largest impact that the bill will have on the colleges will be tht change in donations and gifts to the school due to the fewer incentives offered to the taxpayer. However, it seems that this provision in the tax bill has little chance of being changed. The reductions and even eliminations of incentives for the individual and corporate taxpayer is the main purpose of the tax reform bill. The plan benind the bill is that by eliminating tax breaks, income tax rates will be able to drop to a maximum of 28 percent for individuals and 34 percent for corporations. Office Complex Will Provide Jobs and Services For City James A. Baker, U.S. Treasury Secr·etary, supporter of the bill, said that this bill, which might be upsetting for short tenn goals, it is \for the long term good of the people.\ The benefit should be apparent after approximately two years. Furthermore, Union College Assistant to the President, Jack Maranville, commented that the bill has yet to be passed Continued from page 1 right there.\ If the entire plan is completed, however, it will encompass 450,000 square feet of Class A office space which would provide an incredible vista of Schenectady's business district and Mohawk River. Award-winning Dean of the Colwnbia University School of Architecture James Stewart Polshek designed the complex in the contemporary style. Although, according to Robertson, \They don't stick out like aliens.\ Robertson said th.1t this extensive office project will not only provide more services for the city, but will create some 2,000 jobs as well. Leasers will pay special at- tention to those business owners who might have otherwise movea out of the Schenectady business district if it were not for this production. The rental snace for all tenants will run approximately $13 per square foot. As for financing the project, Kossow must provide for $50,000,000 of the total cost. This $50,000,000 will go toward building the office space, while the city is responsible to finance the car garages. The city will take advantage of public funds in order to build the first garage, and the money made from the use of this garage will contribute toward the budget of the second garage. The stage plans are in now have been the result of some 18 months of work. Robertson estimates that the first building might be completed by next swmner. The backbone of the project has been the confidence the governmental agencies have shown in the success of this going through, and the key has been the cooperation between the city and the builders. Jewish Student Union Fall Calendar September 26- Friday Night Lecture Series- TBA -7:00p.m. in Kosher Kitchen October 3 - Eve of Rosh Hashana - Home hospitality for students unable to go home. Also car-pools to Conservative and Ref onn synagogues. 10. Friday Night Lecture Series- Ariel Hurwitz, Director of Ha Shomer Ha Tzair youth movement-7:00p.m. m Kosher Kitchen 12- Eve of Yom Kippur -carpools to Conservative and ReformSyngogues 13. Yom Kippur breakfast- 6:30 m Kosher Kitchen 17. Sukkot Sukkah Building Party in Jackson's Garden 24. f'nday Ntght Lecture Series- TBA -7:00p.m. in Kosher Kitchen 26. Stmchat Torah Party- TBA November 2- Bagels w Ber . . 1- fmfay Ntght Lecture Series- TBA -7:00p.m. m Ko~her Kitchen .. . Ewry Fnday mght the JSU sponsors a Shabbat meal m the Kos~er Kitchen at 6:00p.m.; services are at 5:30 p.m . All a n• welcome. Dues this year are $15 freshmen I free T-shlrt), and $10 upperclassmen. l For mort' mformatwn con tad Laurel Agris I x4292) or Mitchell Stein 377-0208. Or write to the JSU at Box 2525. students seem to be retuming m their ref.<ar sequence and fewer students are dropping out for a term. This seems to be a change in a trend. , DG: This 1 increase in fresh- men ) is not an intentional change, then - yo a have no plans to increase the school's size? PM: No, no. We intend to remain a smaH college. DG: Union made a little mistake in getting this extra Humber of students whi,ch causes a fairly substantial financial windfall. What might happen with this money? PM: Well, first of all, it isn't all that much when you consider financial aid to those student s ... But we've always taken the view that we shouldn't spend all that money on trivial things; it's more important to build up long term resources. The second thing is that it might help us put some finishing touches on construction. DG: What about less hn- mediate concerns in other areas? PM: I think we need to pay attention to curricular issues. I see the proposed Liberal Learning curriculum changes, which are Wlder review, as very important. I am concerned about the trend toward preprofessionalism, the pressures to make that training paramoWlt. It is important but it must be within the context of a strong liberal arts education. People from Uniof! have a good grounding in liberal studies. DG: Isn't that one of the trends that the business world talks about-hiring people with a more broad education instead of, say, business students? PM: The trends suggest that businesses are beginning to act on their rhetoric and hire students in that manner. DG: This question is one I think a lot of students would like to know. What does a typical day's schedule look like for you; also, what does your monthly schedule look like? PM: (Taking an index card from his jacket pocket) Today I had a Schenectady County Chamber of Commerce meeting at 8:00; this interview at 9:30; I have a budget meeting with the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and the Vice-President for Business and Administration at 10:30; I teach class this afternoon; after class, I have a meeting with the Vic& President for Academic Affairs. Sometimes I also have a reception or dinner in the evening or a meeting over lunch. For the month, well, this weekend I am traveling to a conference for independent colleges on Sunday; Monday I am on the panel at the con- ference; on Tuesday I will be back to teach class. Tuesday evening I have a meeting with the executive board of the Board of Trustees. I wHl return Wednesday; on Thursday more meetings ... the month carries on about like that. DG: What do you see as your primary responstbilities as a college president and what unusual responsibilities do you have as President of Union? PM; The President is responsible to the Board (of Trustees) for the proper working of the college. The president has to make sure it is fiscally sound; llas to make certain that faculty concerns are properly expressed and that curricular issues have proper airing. In a general sense, the president sets the tone for the college. The president must be very much aware that he or she acts as a proper representative. The primary responsibilities are the standards and quality of the college and its ongoing viability. Those are the internal responsibilities. The president also has to represent the college to an outside set of con· stituencies-the alumni body is one such group. The college depends in part upon alumni for resources so that duty is im- portant. The president also has to be very concerned with the • college's good representation to follildations, which also provide resources. I.n New York, as President of Union College, I have to represent the independent sector to the state legislature. I served as Chairman of the Commission on Independent Colleges. I am the represen- tative of the College to Schenectady and serve on several local boards, including the Chamber of Commerce. It is my concern that Schenectady remains a strong and vital commWlity in which we exist. Overall, I believe that as President I am reprEsenting an intellectual point of view that serves as a direction for the college. Thursday Night, Sept. 18th 10:00 p.m. Old Chapel ACT 1: JEFF LAWRENCE ACT 2: TO BE ANNOUNCED PRICE: $1.50 inclu.des soda, chips and pretzels Cheese and Crackers also available . . ' . . :' ' ' •. ' ~ . . ' . ' . , , ' • ..-' • • I 'i' « • I I i ; I ' -r

.. I t f '' >. CONCQRDJENSIS, September 18, 1986 Page3 State and' F.ederal Gov 4 t. Provlde More Ald But More Red# Tape Continued from page 1 is important that tlijs program continue for it!s the only source of revenue for which many students can qualify. Continuous changes in student aid help and hinder students. Overall, financial aid fr()m tbe Department of Education has increased $Z,OOO;QOO sincd 1980 to a tQal of · $7;059,020 in 1984. This includes . stttdent financial assistance (Fell Grant, SEOG, college wot~ study programs, NDSL, and SSIG) and guaranteed st11dent loans. H;owever, in recent times the government has decided to decrease federal expenditure on education. This means that the government will .not pay as much money to banks any more. The-banks do not want to lose money so they cover themselves by raising the in- terest rate students · pay. In addition the Guaranteed Student Loan is supposed to be deferred interest free while students are in school, but they still pay an origination fee of 5;5 percent, increased from 5 percent last year; One answer offered by Union is a supplemental loan ,program for families pf Union students. . The Supplemental Education Loan Program (SELP) gives loans of Up to $5,000 P.er year to · pevple who may not be eligible· f(Jr aid programs but still need financial assistance. The state of construction in the Terrace area last Tuesday ... . College Center Nears Completion Facilities in Building Reviewed Financial. aid from the . Dept.. of. Education was increased $2,000;000 since 1980 to .a total of. $7,059,020 in1984. Legislation signed by Governor Mario Cuomo of New York ·increases the · size of tuition awards and the number of candidates. Dolores E. Cross, President of New York State Higher Services CoqJoration, explains that families with incomes as high as $32,000 may qualify. With this legislation comes a new payment .schedule which increases many tuition assistance programs awards by $255. Union College understands that financial· assistance is · significant. They encourage students to write to their · C()ngressmen emphasizing the importance of Federal and State programs .of aid and stJggesting the r.estoration of funding levels~ Applications and · infcrmation are available in the · F\inancial Aid Offic~. By ~LLYLARKIN It seems that no matter where · one walks on campus there are evident signs of construction. Having witnessed . the coll~ge construction for so long, I 'have begun to wonder if the destruction will ever end. When I inquired about the ~ol!f.'~e f'.entPr. I was informed that the building should be doors overlooking Jackson's nearing completion in April. . Gardens. The bookstore-college This would enable all of the . store will be two floors con- College Center offices to move · nected by an interior staircase. in during summer vacation. The bookstore will have class Next year at thiS time, the .. textbooks, hard and paper back College Center should be fully books. The college store on the functional. second floor Will sell items from If ·you. have not seen the class~related supplies to College Center model, or read • greeting cards to computer the progJ;\am prospectus. t software. The second floor will consist of three conference rooms, the food service office, and up- perclass dining hall and kit- chen. The conference rooms will contain standard \board room\ tables and' are designed . to enable meals to be served for luncheon meetings or private for.rnal ·dinners. The upperclass · dining will be cafeteria style and will be open five days a week for lunch and dinner. This facility will also have exteriQr terraces where students can dine overlooking Jackson's Gardens. However, with an increase of money comes a new payment schedule. The multiple dispersement of GSL can create a cash flow problem. Some students rely on their loan check to pay for t1te term at once. Now you must wait as long as one·third of the academic year before you receive the second disper- sement. ..• as compared with that area last winter. The third floor will house a suite of offices for the Dean of Students, Associate Dean of Students, and a Studenl Affairs Reception Area. Also located here will be the Student Publications workrooms. music group rehear~al room, Bookstore office, Student Activity meeting rooms, and a student lounge. Joseph Hinchey Named to Board of Trustees Former Senior Class President Returns Joseph M. Hinchey of We.s.twood, Mass., senior vice president for finance at Analog Devices, Inc., has been named to the Union College Board of Trustees. Hinchey's selection was announced by College President John S. Morris. Engineering Prize as an under- vice president graduate, Hinchey has also Instruments. encourage you to visit. Lamont House where the model is located. The Commons, a multi- storied atrium-like space will be the 'heart' or 'crossroads' of the campus. This central space will be 'framed' by the theatre- of Texas auditorium, pub-restaurant, Hinchey graduated from Union College in 1947 with a B.S. in electrical engineering . and received his J.D. degree from Boston College Law School in 1980. A member .of Sigma Chi, president of his senior class, and a recipient of the Pullman been active as a Union alwrulUs. Hinchey served in the navy He has served on the Trustee from 1943-46 and from 1951.;53. Board of Advisors and as an Professional and commWlity Associate Class Agent. He is activities have included also a member of the Terrace membership in the Financial Council, a select group of Union Executives Institute (FEI); benefactors. member of the Electrical After leaving Union, Hinchey Control Section of the National was associated with the Ribble Electrical Manufacturers Electric Corporation. From Association (NEMA); Director 1!15~4, he served with General of Associated Industries of Dynamics, first at Groton, Massachusetts (AIM); and Conn., and then at Bayonne, service in a variety of com- N.J. Prior to attending law munity roles including United school, he 1 served as a group Way, YMCA and Chairman of r----------------------- ........ · the ·Mansfield Massachusetts STUDENT ACTIVITIE·S EXPO Join Us on Thursday, September·la To Discover More About Student Activities and How You Can Join Get Invofveil!!! Make Your College A '\MGre Perfect Union\ PLACE: Old Chapet Ci.rcle TIME: 1·4p.m •. ENTERTA:INMENT: Dutch Pipers& Garne'f' Minstrels Apples Galore!!! Raindate: September 19 School Building Committee. He is married to the former Bar- bara A. Bright, and the couple has five c_hildren. cabaret, bookstore and exterior terraces. In addition to a place · to socialize and read mail by the indoor garden, the Commons will house art exhibitions, dance and musical performances, alumni gatherings, receptions, student elections, and displays of Union memorabilia. The Conunons will provide en~ess possibilities. The theatre- auditorium will acconun<Jdate 230 patrons while the_ put.· restaurant-cabaret will serve various foods from main en- trees, deli sandwiches, piz~a, ice cream, etc., and prvv1de entertainment in a coffee-house environment. In the warm months, the terrace will allow these activities to move out- The fourth floor will provide working space for a media loWlge, Student Forum office, Social Activities Planning of- fice, Residence Life office, religious programs office, WRUC radio station and a Coordinator of Student Activities office. The College Center will provide a meeting place where individuals can experience the quality of the academic and cultural environment that is part of the Union College connnunity. It will be a sub- stantial asset to Union and will more than justify the present inconvenience. Even those of us who will only utilize the College Center as alumni will quickly forget the last two years of disarray. 'l ..

I l f <. ·, i ..,. i ' I I ( I [ 1 I CONCORDIENSIS, September 18.1986 Page3 State and Federal Gov~t. Provide More Aid But More Re~d. Tape Continued from page 1 is important that this program C!mtinue for it is the only source of revenue for which many students can qualify. However, in recent times the government has decided to decrease federal expenditure on education. This means that the government will not pay as much money to banks any more. The banks do not want to lose money so they cover themselves by raising the in- terest rate students pay. In addition the Guaranteed Student Loan is supposed to be deferred interest free while students are in srhool, but they still pay an origination fee of 5.5 percent, increased from 5 percent last yea,r. Financial aid from the Dept. of Education was ·increased $2,000,000 since 1980 to a total of $7,059,020 in 1984. Legislation signed by Governor Mario Cuomo of New York increases the size of tuition awards and the number of candidates. Dolores E. Cross, President of New York State Higher Services Corporation, explains that families with incomes as high as $32,000 may qualify. With this legislation comes a new payment schedule which increases many tuition assistance programs awards by $255. Continuous changes in student aid help and hinder students. Overall, financial aid from the Department of Education has increased $2,000,000 sincd 1980 to a toal of $7,059,020 in 1984. This includes student financial assistance (Pell Grant, SEOG, college work study programs, NDSL, and SSIG) and guaranteed studeat hans. One am;wer offered by Union is a supplemental loan program for families of Union students. The Supplemental Education Loan Program (SELP) gives loans of up to $5,000 per year to people who may not be eligible for aid programs but still need financial assistance. Union College understands that financial assistance is significant. They encourage students to write to their congressmen emphasizing the importance of Federal and · State progrruns of aid and suggesting the restoration of fWlding levels. Applications and information are available in the Financial Aid Office. The state of construction in the fer race area last Tuesday ... College Center Nears Completion Facilities in Building Reviewed By KELLY LARKIN It seems that no matter where one walks on campus there are evident signs of construction. Having witnessed the college construction for so long, I have begun to wonder if the destruction will ever end. When I inquired about the r:'~\~H\~~ C:~>ntPr. I was informed that the building should be nearing completion in April. This would enable all of the College Center offices to move in during summer vacation. Next year at this time, the College Center should be fully functional. If you have not seen the College Center model, or read the program prospectus. I doors overlooking Jackson's Gardens. The bookstore-college store will be two floors con- nected by an interior staircase. The bookstore will have class textbooks, hard and paper back books. The college store on the second floar will sell items from class-related supplies to greeting cards to computer software. The second floor will consist of three conference rooms, the food service office, and up- perclass dining hall and kit- chen. The conference rooms will contain standard \board room\ tables and are designed to enable meals to be served for luncheon meetings or private formal dinners. The upperclass dining will be cafeteria style and will be open five days a week for lWlch and dinner. This facility will also have extericr terraces where students can dine overlooking Jackson's Gardens. However, with an increase of money comes a new payment schedule. The multiple dispersement of GSL can create a cash flow problem. Some students rely on their loan check to pay for the tenn at once. Now you must wait as long as one-third of the academic year before you receive the second disper- sement. ... as compared with that area last winter. The third floor will huuse a suite of offices for the Dean of Students, Associate Dean of Students, and a Student Mfairs Reception Area. Also located here will be the Student Publications workrooms, music group rehear:,al room, Bookstore office, Student Activity meeting rooms, and a student lounge. Joseph Hinchey Named to Board of Trustees Former Senior Class President Returns encourage you to visit Lamont House where the model is located. The Commons, a multi- storied atrium-like space will be the'heart'or'crossroads' ofthe campus. This central space will be 'framed' by the theatre- The fourth floor will provide workin~ space for a media lounge, Student Forum office, Social Activities Planning of- fice, Residence Life office, religious programs office, WRUC radio station and a Coordinator of Student Activities office. Joseph M. Hinchey of Westwood, Mass., senior vice president for finance at Analog Devices, Inc., has been named to the Union College Board of Trustees. Hinchey's selection was announced by College President JohnS. Morris. Hinchey graduated from Union College in 1947 with a B.S. in electrical engineering and received his J.D. degree from Boston College Law School in 1980. A member of Sigma Chi, president of his senior class, and a recipient of the Pullman Engineering Prize as an under- graduate, Hinchey has also been active as a Union alumnus. He has served on the Trustee Board of Advisors and as an Associate Class Agent. He is also a member of the Terrace Council, a select group of Union benefactors. After leaving Union, Hinchey was associated with the Ribble Electric C()rporation. From 1954-64, he served with General Dynamics, first at Groton, Conn., and then at Bayonne, N.J. Prior to attending law school, he served as a group STUDENT ACTIVITIES EXPO Join Us on Thursday, September 18 To Discover More About Student Activities and How You Can Join Get Involved!!! Make Your College A 11 More Perfect Union\ PLACE: Old Chapel Circle TIME: l-4p.m. ENTERTAINMENT: Dutch Pipers& Garnet Minstrels Apples Galore!!! Raindate: September 19 vice president Instruments. of Texas auditorium, pub-restaurant, Hinchey served in the navy from 1943-46 and from 1951-53. Professional and community activities have included membership in the Financial Executives Institute (FEI); member of the Electrical Control Section of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA); Director of Associated Industries of Massachusetts (AIM); and service in a variety of com- munity roles including United Way, YMCA and Chainnan of the Mansfield Massachusetts School Building Committee. He is married to the fonner Bar- bara A. Bright, and the couple has five children. cabaret, bookstore and exterior terraces. In addition to a place to socialize and read mail by the indoor garden, the Commons will house art exhibitions, dance and musical performances, alumni gatherings, receptions, student elections, and displays of Union memorabilia. The Commons will provide endless possibilities. The theatre- auditoriwn will accommodate 230 patrons while the put· restaurant-cabaret will serve various foods from main en- trees, deli sandwiches, piz~a, ice cream, etc., and provide entertainment in a coffee-house environment. In the warm months, the terrace will allow these activities to move out- This Week~s Events Tbut'Sday, September 18 The College Center will provide a meeting place where individuals can experience the quality of the academic and cultural environment that is part of the Union College community. It will be a sub- stantial asset to Union and will more than justify the present inconvenience. Even those of us who will only utilize the College Center as alumni will quickly forget the last two years of disarray. Sa.m.-4~ 36 p.m. Career Development C~ter. Graduate school interview sign-ups. 1 p.m.-4 p.m.. Old Chapel Circle 1 Dutch Pipers & Garnet Minstrels. 4~30 p.m. Humanities, Room 117; Career Deyelopment Centersponf!ors resume .preparati(}n. 6:~ p.m. Butterfield, Room 306. Second seSSlon of re~ume preparation. 7~:00p;m.: Career Develo~ent Center resume ~rittques fut·on campus recruiting. 9 p.m.·l p.m. Oid Chapel D:udng Room. Cabaret. Friday, September 19 3 a.m.-4: :10 p.tn. Career Dev&loprtlent Center. Graduate School interview sign:upe;. 2 p.m. Arts Building, Room 2111. Slide lectur~ with.sculp~or and painter Harmony Hammond. 5.p.m. Career Developmrmt Center. Field trtp registration. '1, 9 & 11 p.m. SStiUi. FllmASnldier'sStory. . . 9 p.m.-2 a~m. IUile House Lbwer Lounge, 21 Club. Saturday,Septentber20 5-9 p.m. Hale Bouse Dining Room. Candlelight Dinners. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. SS016 ~Film A. Soldier's Story. Sunday, September 21 Noon~ p.m. Parker-Rice Estate. Physks Department piCnic. 1, 9&11 p.m. Fihl'i: A Soldier;sStory. · ..., 9:30..12:31}a.m. Hale Housing Difiing Room. Late Night Bites. . ' . . ' ... ·, '. . '• ~ ' \ ' . r ~ ' ' ' ' • ' ..

Pa~e4 CONCORDIENSIS, September 18, 1986 ••• extensive haclcground and experience New Faculty Welcomed To Union COURTESYOF UNION PUBLIC RELATIONS The following new faculty members will be welcomed at Union College at the year's first faculty meeting September· 9, with classes starting on Sep- tember 10. By department they are: Arts: Walter Hatke associate professor of art: Hatke completed his MFA at the University of Iowa in 1982. Previously he taught at Penn- sylvania State University, University of Iowa, and DePauw University. Thomas Ro$s, assistant professor of music. Ross completed his Ph.D. at Wesleyan University in ethnomusicology. He has taught at Oberlin College, Wesleyan University and California State at Dominguez Hills. Vera Urlock, instructor in dance. Urlock completed her MFA in dance at Case Western Reserve University in 1978. She has taught at the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, Case Western Reserve University, ClevBland Institute of Music, Hollins College, and the Rogge School in West Germany. She was a visiting artist at Indiana University at Bloomington in 1980. Classics: John Marincola, visiting assistant professor. Marincola earned his Ph.D. from Brown University in 1985. He was fonnerly on the faculty of the College of the Holy Cross &nd Brown University. Civil Engineering: Gregory Gifford, assistant professor. Gifford earned his Ph.D. in Civil Engineering from Worcester Polytechnic Institute in.1984. He has taught at Worcester P<.1ytechnic Institute, Central New England College, and the Uniwrsity of Massachusetts. He was formerly Chief Enginetr with D. J. Beane Corporatnn of New Hampshire. English: Martha Hitchcock Fleming, visiting assistant CLASS OF 1987 Todd Angus Jeffrey Auerbach John Bak Cuole Baldassano Hania Bararnki K.thryn Baringer Jonathan Barofsky Amy Basis Carolyn Baum· Jennifer Bednarz William Benson Jill Blando David Blee Roben Bleif~r Roben Blinkoff Kevin Bohn james Brawley Sarah Calderi ni Theodore Carlson Richard Cavoli John Chryssochoos nawnChupay Berh Churchill Eric Cohen Evan Collins Thomas Colwell Abby Conrad Virginia Crocke·r James Cunningham Joseph Damore Michael Danberg Erie Davis Srephen Delano Karen Deloye Peter Diamond Timothy Diemoz Judith [ •imauro Tracy Doubrava Simon Drew - David Dworkin C raip; Eatofl Debra Eisenl>crg Andrew Ellis Adam Falk Carolyn f~.\instein L111da Fosher Norman f ~dft\ick ~'Y F l'f:dencks Daniel Glue< k lla•od Goldman professor. Fleming received her Ph.D. from Boston University in 1975. She earned her bachelor and master's degree at Massachusetts State College at Bridgewater. Jennie Skerl, visiting associate pmfessor. Skerl earned her Ph.D. from Kent State University in 1974. She has been an Associate Fellow with the Center for the Hwnanities at SUNY Albany and has taught at Skidmore College, RPI., Syracuse University and Kent State. Electrical Epgineering: Lawrence Hollander, visiting professor. Hollander is associate dean of the School of Engineering of The Cooper Union. He has taught at New York University and worked with the State Education Department of New York. Hollander earned his MA from New York University in 1954. John Mallick, associate professor. Mallick has been adjWlct professor of electrical engineering at Union since 1983. He was awarded the Sc.D. in the Department of . Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1979. Mallick has worked at the General Electric Corporate Research and Development Center since 1979. earned her Ph.D. from Syracuse University in 1984. Previously she .taught at Moorhead State University, Cornell University, New Mexico State University and Syracuse University. Institute of Administration and ManageDJ.ent: James Burgess, Jr., visiting in- structor. Burgess earned a Ph.D. in Economics from Brown University. He has taught at Brown, Providence College, Rhode Island College and Southern Methodist University. Mathematics: James Hef- feron, visiting instructor; Hefferon received his Ph.D. from the University of Con- necticut in May 1986. Hefferon has taught at the University of Connecticut since 1980. Glenn Ledder, visiting in- . structor. Ledder received his m.aster's from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and did his undergraduate wo~k at Iowa State. Modern Languages: Pilar Moyano, visiting assistant professor of Spanish. Moyano earned her Ph.D. in Spanish from SUNY at Albany in 1985. She has taught at Russell Sage College, SUNY at Albany, Emma Willard School, and she has taught Spanish to students at Adelphi University in Bogota, Colombia. assistant professor. Wilcox completerl his doctorate in 1984 at Ohio btate University. He has taught at Ohio State ami American University. Psychology: R. Michael Bagby, visiting assistant professor. Bagby received his Ph.D. from York University in Toronto, Canada in 1985. He has taught at York University, Wilfred Laurier University, Radford Universjty and University of Tennessee. Kenneth DeBono, assistant professor. DeBono received his Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota in 1985. He has taught at Michigan State University and the University of Minnesota. Linda Stanhope, visiting assistant professor. Stanhope earned her Ph.D. from the University of Virginia in 1984. She has taught at the University of Toronto and the University of Virginia._ Sociology: Janet P. Grigsby, visiting assistant professor. Grigsby received her Ph.D. from Yale . University in 1983. She has taught at Davidson College in North Carolina and worked on research projects with the National Science Foundation and Yale Univer- sity. Cherrice. Traver, assistant professor. Traver received her Ph.D. from the University of Virginia. She formerly worked with AT&T Technologies, and taught at the Medical College of Virginia. Traver conducted research for the Research Foundation of SUNY at Albany. Physics: Ralph Alp her, Distinguished Research Professor in physics. Alpher earned his doctorate in. physics in 1948 from George Washi.pgton University. He joined the General Electric Research Laboratory in 1955. Schaffer Ubrary: Suzanne M. Rahn, instructor-cataloger. Rahn earned her M.L.S. from SUNY at Albany. in 1985. She was formerlv adiunct librarian at R.P.I., and she has worked at University Ubrary, SUNY at Albany. Jean Sheviak, coordinator of online systems-head of technical processes. Sheviak earned an M.A. in Teaching in · Ubrary Science from Northern Illinois University in. 1979 and an M.A. in Teaching of Social Studies .from the University of illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1970. She was formerly acting head of reference of Folsom Library, R.P.I. Geology: Paul T. Ryberg, visiting assistant professor. Ryberg completed his doctoral studies in 1984, earning a Ph.D. in Geosciences from the University of Arizona. He has taught at the University of Oregon and Lehigh University. mstory: Linda Ford, visiting assistant professor. Ford Political ScienC!e: John Laursen,' visiting assistant professor. Laursen graduated with a Ph.D. from The Johns Hopkins University in 1985 and earned his law degrEe from Harvard Law School in 1977. Laursen has taught at Lafayette College and the Johns Hopkins University. William Clyde Wilcox, visiting Union College Dean's List 1985- 86 Pet«:r Gf!lnger Robert Osborne CLASS OF l!i)88 Marina Kurit.n Anthony Sottile Sean Griffin M ichdle Packer Laurel Asris Joseph Lanar<> Nancy Sowa Laurence Grob Gina Padula Tamara Barsamian Chrisropher lArsh James S1oddard Jay Grossmin Antho11y Pallone Heidi Beilis janathanl.askin Stephen Szy<llik Nancy Grundman Chrislizn Patno Samuel Beran KareP Lavarnway Dor~hy Taylor Naresb Gunaramam Stephen ~ennypacker Alok Bharr James LeBrou Chrisrine Tele~a Carol Haas Paige Perkins Howard Blausrein Richard l.l!vint John Thorne Maria Hadjicosta Amy Petri Margaret-Mary lkliuno Evan Lewis frank Turdo Jeannie Haller Elaine Pick Terrill Bonderofl Roben Luntz Timmhy V.tach()vic Jacqueline Hattield Lisa PratiC:(). Holly Brandt Geri Mackey Daniel Vaughn James Havard Scon Press Kach leen Browr~e J~n Minus Devin Wenig Stephen Quine Stephen Cafrarelli Meliss., Mayer Keirh Young Martin Helllps IJouglas Henderson Linda Raffaele Thomas Campbell Elana Miller Rochelle Zamore Chriscopher Heyer Michael Reed Anne Carl Shawn Monon Diane Zanfardino Ellen Hom J udirh Rij!noey Man:in Cepkauskas David Moss Alyssa Horo..,itz Steven Robbins Paul Chang Owne Mud~ Philip Hotchkiss Suzanne R~oe Christopher Chihlas P'ula Nadeau CLASS OF 1989 Mohammad lssa Scephen Rosenblau Patrick Cook Kavita Nanda Lauri Adelstein Use Jenouri PauiSchop David Cope David Novick Raud Allllllin Donald Johruon Paul Seline Derek Dazcn Donald Orofino Lora Anderson Sharon Kass Adrieoe·Shah Sreven OeBalso Sharon Panas Jonathan Ara Robe11: Ks!EIIIJin Robert Sharp Christine Donnelly Yohan Park Saephen Barkhuff Mary Kenne<ly Kaveh Shcibtni MaryAnn ~eham Marha Phipps Srephanie Blinr Jay Klein Kyle Siegel Rachel E lfenbein Snu.rt Pratt Stephen Bossuyt Stephen Konlian john Silverruil William Ennist DimaProlUS Keith Brecher LaiWalarn Kinren Simpson Brian Ferguson Jennifer Reese Sheri Burger Todd Lawrence Amy Sirkin Srcpllen Flitrnan Craig Rideout Laura Cassidy Banleu Lehmann Bradley Spitz Melissa Fredericks John Rinko Ri111 Clement Andrew Lent AmySuke Paul Freebome James Risi Ruth Cohen David Lewis Glenn Sceinberg Richard Gersten Will!ain Robbins ·Rodney Coldren Charles LiiJlClgtS · Karen Sr. Germain R.andi Goklscein Jeffrey Rockmore Timochy Colli~ Jeffrey Lipsin Stilcy Stiesl itz: Meg Gorman Kri5tin_Rodenhiser Beth Deaner Srephen Lipsky Julie SEi!ne James Greenspan Richard Romer Catherine Diamond Jeffrey Long Diane Scubbins PecerGro1e Amy Rosenthal Debm Dicker Patrick Lynch Frederick Sum David Gruber Christine Rua Bradford Doyle William Magnotta Thomas Sw;an Don ·Hernandez Joy Runyon Jessica Eisenberg Paul Malatesta Yvon~ Szymko Jeffn:y Hirschman Stevep Sanders Wendy Endness Eric Manilttff Dawn T-.markin Kenneth Horan Mary Ann Schiazza Usa F•rtcouh Aniu McMahon Gail Tankel Kimberly Hoyt: Louis Schick Jonathan Fink Andrew Menzie Kerrie Ticknor Mark Hucchins David Schulman Catherine Forth Patricia Me\ilt Aaron Toffler Alberto laia Deb{>ro<h Srhulman Christopher Geib Mark Michel Ccim Trerise Sayeed.lkramuddin Tina Scloccheui Tim6thy German Jeffrey Miller FredTunllnlll Keiih Ireton Mark Shanahan Virginia Giugliano J Qllles Monks Wiuie Wacker John Kelly David Shinber~t David Gn:enla\\' Brian Monlllft David Wass.!r Allan Klapper Richard Siegel lbabHmna Charles Moore NeiiWiruwu Scott· Kl•res Kimbedy Silvers. Eliubedllfardiman William Mo111n Roben Wofchuck Adam Kolket John Simmons Philip Hess Paul Morsan ShariWoif Amrita Krishnan MarkS Ia~ Anne Hoban Cynthia Morploel Man:inZiac Robert Kronenberg Elissa Smilowiu Christine Hong Michele Kupfer Jonathan Snyder Bruce Hopkins Sreven Moss Charles N i!es \ News B.riefs Watson Fellowship Applications Applications for the Watson Travelling Fellowship are due Monday, October 6. The Watson provides graduating seniors $!1,000 to · fund · one year of structured travel, anywhere in the world outside of North America. The application . consists of a shoP't ·4-6 page essay describing the theme and itinerary of your proposed tra-vel, and two letters of _ recommendatien. Your travel plans sho-uld have some organizing theme, concerning some area in which you can demonstrate a sincere interest. It doesn't matter whether you have travelled extensively before or not, it only matters that you really would like the chance to explore an area of interest. The Watson is not designed to fil)ance formal education. Thetopicyou choose to investigate need not be in any way related to your prospective area of emplcyment. In fact, . this is an ideal way to explore ideas and places that you I:Dight never be able to after you have started-on a career ladder. You can plan to spend your year in one country, or do what Union winner Liesel Golden '85 did. . She managed to visit Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, Israel, Egypt, Sweden. Norway, Denmark, West Germany and England in her year of studying the roles of women in the military. For more information, contac-t Doug Klein in the Department of Economics (x6056 or 6228). It's too good an opportlinity to miss! Jeffrey Hurd Can jackson Robin JacObson Jennifer John5on Kate Kaplan DavidKasow Adam Katz B.-YceKim Claudine Klein :Paul Kow:Wski Kathryn Kum Mark Landriu ·sing ~..ee Adnn!\\' Livernois Pecet\ Manria T:imolhy Mauhews John McQueen Chrisrine Mechler Reb in Miller Scephen Miller George Moryka Joseph Murphy M~tryMurphy Lisa Nicosia Ashley Oli'ller Bradley Peters Craig Petreikis · Tristan Pivacek Amerha Rafiq Richerd Rho Lisa Rice Scott Segal Evan Shack Leslie Shapiro Ezta. Sherman Arlene Silverio J~tffrey Smith Richard Sorbero RobmSroltz Ei~Sweeney Andrew T-ylor l{riscine Tierney RobertU~ Tracy Valachovic Li111 Wuhtet' joshua Waldirian Vei«ie Wash bum Robert Waxman Louis Wenalik BeniWolf •j ' ' l ., ' ., J .,

CONCQR.DlENSIS, September 18,1986 PageS FEATURES ·First Impressions It seemed as though all the freshmen on third floor Foll: piled into my room with pepsis and M & M's in hand for our first rap session. We all had our first impressions of life at Union and needed to talk to people- people that we were living with not just fleetfug acquaintances. This conversation became rather rowdy and we all left in stitches as we reminisced about our first hectic week at college. Some of the most memorable impressions were as follows.: . . . the kitchen sink?,\ \I just made a whole bunch of great new friends, now if I could only remember their names,\ \Hey do you know the meaning of the word JAP?,\ \Don't tell me, your name is either Beth or Steve!,\ \Psyche.! 'Tl}ere's a Friendly's across the street,\ H50 dollar fine for setting off the fire alarm,\ \O.K. tell me again how I get to the social science bailding,\ \Hamlet in 3 days!.,'' \Don't forget Monday NIGHT FOOTBALL .... ,\ \I wish my professor could speak English.'' -·.:~>.·--- ~~ ~ :> . .. Cll .0 ::> L <.') Cll > tO 0 >- .0 0 .... 0 ;C 0.. \When .I saw the fraternity guys playing beer pong in their underwear I knew this school was going to be fun,\ \So this is going to be my room,'' \Thank god they have OA' s to help schlep the luggage,\ \Did you bring a car? refrigerator? T.V.? stereo? coffeemaker? Althoagh weallhave different views of our first week of school. we're· all in the same boat--First impressions good or bad will last a lifetime. After all, \This is no longer high school; this is the big time.\ Points of Interest Drinkers Exclusive By CHRIS ROIUNSON and MAlA ENZER BY THE LtrSHITIVITY COUNCIL (of '85-'86 Freshman Drunk Club Fame) YOU MUST BE 21 OR OVER TO READ THIS ARTICLE. PROOF OF AGE REQUIRED. May we introduce our very first Drink of the Week: The ZJppity-Doo-Dah This is the perfect drink for the poor college student. The first two ingredients are orange juice and sprite (both of which are available at West Dining Hall) (but, of course, you won't ever steal). To build an- ticipation, we will delay the revelation of this absolute elixir with a brief hiStory of its discovery. The birthplace ·Of the Zippity-Doo-Dah is located at an obscure North College bar. Resourceful sophomores, ever · alcoholic (and 21 of course), com:bined· the following liquids to create the subject of this week's column. AND NOW, for · its official unveiling: mix 1 part orange juice, 1 part. sprite, and 1 part vodka in a glass, pitcher, or trash can, and your taste buds will be bombarded with ina credibl'e flavor, while your brain is completely swimming in pure buzz. Well, that's it, readers. Until next week, keep smili.pgand studying, andrnever go to bed sober. STUDENT\ ACTIVITIES EXPO Join Us on Thursday, September,\18 To Discover More About Stud.ent Activities and How You Can Join Get Involved!!! f 0 Make Your College. A \More :~erfect Union\ By ALEX STEPHENS In every institution, com- munity and social group there exists certain events and phenomena that are not always evident to newcomers. The following are some of the many such events in and around the Union College campus: Definitely avail yourself to any Union football game, regardless of the opponent. Do not, however, pay to sit in the German Table Every Friday 12 : 30 - 1 : 30 p.m. Hale House bleachers where, inevitably, you would end up sitting ne:xt to the fourth string center's family from Pennsylvania, cuvered in a blanket that Mom rnade and drinking homemade hot chocolate .... Slapshots on a Wednesday night offers an unbeatable two- for-one wings special with ice cold beer (not included). to wash it down. Avoid the qaaint pub, for personal preserv~tion, on Albany Maulers night.. •. Apply for a Watso11 for informatiCJII see Prof. Klein in the Economies department. PLACE: Old Chapel Circle TIME: 1-4 p.rn. Av;¥f~b/e /tt rt?X ~';J~VI'd;:or; ENTERTAINMENT: Dutch Pipers & Garnet Minstrels Apples Galore!!! Raindafe: September 19 . Cbtf1Jt/{r S;ON lo ~7! {bf/~ ··········:·:·:·:·:•:·:·:·:·:•:·:·:·:·:·:::::::~:::::!:::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;:: ...... • .. •.· ... ~-~··'\'····\··· .. ~ ~ HOM·ECOMING '86MEETINGS 0 .. All those interested in getting· involved with the activities to celebrate 100 years of foo-tball at Union, please come to these .meetings! » ~ :::: PROM.OTIONAL DAY MEETING :::: :::: Tuesday, September 23, 4:30 p.m ~ in SS016 · :::: \~~~ PARADE MEETING )\\~ i~~~ Thursday 1 september 25,4:30 p.m. in SS016 ~~~~ ll~~ GENERAL H;OMECOMI NG·MEETI NG ~;;~ tl~~ MondaY, septmbet 29, 4:30p.m. in SS016 (Piz.~as and soda at this \~~~ i;:: 1 as t m e.et ing ) :::: ~ » . . •'•\ ~:-: • • , I • 1 t t t I • I t I I I it I I I I I I I • I I I t flo f I I I I t I I t t t t I I I .. ill t I ••• I t 1 t 1 t 1 ~t't't't'•\•~···•ttttltl-tttttt•tttlettltr 1 ~~ 1 • \' 1 • 1 , ,., o 't iJ 1 . •, t 1 '• • 1 • .~~,• 1 't', 't~• :• • 1 •, t 1 '• :•: •:•: •:•: 1 1 ! !•:•: •: • !•: •i•: •,•., :•••:•!, ~~~ • !•! •! t: •!•: •!~: •!•:•! t! •!• !e!•!e!•! •!111! •!o:•! ·~•:• :•! t :• !• :•! •:•~ • !'! •: 1 !•!•:•.•:•!•,.o • t • • ... • •' • • •' • • •' • '•'• '•'• • • 1 .. '• 1 .. '•' \• •' • 111 •' !·!·!·!•:·~·!·~·=·=·=·!•.·!·!·~·······-·····~~-·,.- ............. • ....... 'I' .......... \ ... • .. • .. • .. You want it, Never buy all your books for each class. You can usually borrow them from your roommate or the professor ends up forgetting to test you on them .... Dominos large pepperoni is not too bad but stay away from the Papa Cicco's burnt ambers pizza .... Glance at the construction around campus but think twice before questioning the workers on the progress. They are not always prone to estimate when the nice new pool will be ready .... Check your mail only twice a week. That way the stack of junk pamphlets will at least give the illusion of a buried letter .... Go to the Mohawk Mall, if aot for the bargains then for the pleasure of it. The diversity is always exciting. While you are there, just for a point of in- terest, request a song from t~.e man playing the organ out~ide of the organ store .... Answer a question in class only if you are absolutely positive it is right. Otherwise, let the guy ·.vith the briefcase in the front ro,•r do all the talking .... Indulge in a well ~nrtioned meal at the Fh t'!Side Restaurant . H o w ever , remember that a few of the select downtown hamburger . spots do not maintain their au::~picious reputations for their quality.... . Feel free to participate in any of the diverse activities on campus but abstain from filling up the personal section with idiotic suggestions, like \Build another KNt.JTT.\ Even though recovering from the laughter of the intensity of this remark, and others like it, it is lost in repetition. Welcome Back! We've got it And we still DELIVER!

Page & CONCORDJENSIS,September 18,1986 FEATURES Changes at the Skellar '- <ll ..0 :J '- (!) <ll > 10 Cl >- ..0 0 0 ..c a. Jerri Clark, new Campus Center Director. By WENDY ZiMMERMAN Upon entering t.he sk~llar one cannot help but notice the ap- parent changes that have taken place. In addition to the new attractive price list, there are more sandwich varieties in- cluding su:bs, as well as a new receipt system. Many gre~tly' appreciate the new list and variety of foods upon first glance, but some are still under a cloud of confusion where the new receipt system is con- cerned. I talked with Robert Dalton, manager of the skellar for two years, and Jan. Gray, Director of Food Services. When I asked why the new system was ln- stalled,. and who made the decision, Mr~ Dalton told me that the decision was a group one, including Mr. Dalton, the assistant managers, as well as the student· managers. The ·decision was made in response to the loss of money that oc- curred because of the \honor system\ used last spring. Students can be assured though that the loss of the ''honor system\ does not mean the loss of the skellar's efforts toward the satisfaction of the student. Ms. Gray and Mr. Dalton assured me that many prices have remained the same, such as burgers which \have remained the 'Same for years and years,'' as well as sandwich prices from last spring.. Mr. Dalton stated that the skellar ''is actually a student business\ with only 4 non-students in supervising roles. He is satisfied for now beeause of the increase in dollar voltime and the presently smooth running activities of the skellar. Ue for one is much bl<!ppier with the somewhat \more structured\ receipt system, stating, ''when I first got here it wasn't even organized to the extent of people writing orders down.\ We discussed other alternatives to the new system because of the sometimes overcrowded lWich and dinner hours. Ms. Gray as well as Mr. Dalton seemed happy for now, but made it known to me that it is good that students are in- terested,. because they agree that if there is any flack because of unworkable con- ditions, they should be aware of them. It looks like the skellar has a very successful year ahead of itself. - College Appoints New Director of Student Activities By KELLY LARKIN she saw this new position as a challenging opportunity with limitless possibilities and potential. Clark's work at Rivier College was with an institution of only 600 female students. Union interested her because it is a larger coeducational school. Both of these factors were also im- portant to Clark because they provide expansion of career opportunities. Clark provided for· the 60 orientation advisors is any indication of Clark's. ability, heJ' lectures on t()pics such as time management will be extremely beneficial as well as enjoyable. Dr. Eleanor Baum Ally student can easily see the pro~ress being made on the outside of the new College Center. We must, however, realize that there is more to making the building functional than the ' completion of the center itself. One of the crucial elements needed is an ad- millistrator to oversee this new building. To meet this challenge, recently appointed to the position of Director of the College · Center and ~tudent activities is Ms. Jerri Clark. CLark began her new position at Union in August and will use this year to prepare for the forthcoming move into the center and organize activities which will utilize the building. CLark has had seven years in higher education and a great deal of experience working with st11dents. In the short time since her arrival, she has already pioven herself a considerable asset to Union. Clark has spent her past four years at Rivier College in New Hampshire as Assistant Vice President for Student Development. Clark's career in higher education succeeds an ex:tensive education at Boston College where she obtained her J3A in English and .Secondary Education and . an MA in Counseling Psychology. When asked about her initial interest in becoming Director of the College Center Clark said Letters •• a C()ntinued from page 9 private e1.terprise defense contractors). That commission pt•oduced the ridiculous Grace Commission Report, which, almost entirely, instead of revealing instances of waste, called for the elimination of efficiently run programs that do n<lt suit the reactionary ideas of the commission. Therefore, college graduates are much better off w.>rking in private enterprise with the chance of becoming one of the $1,000,000 (or more) a year corporation presidents or a q11arter of a million a year vice president than working in the F\ederal Government's Civil Service for cheapskate pay and second rate fringe benefits. If a college graduate cannot filld a good job in private en- As well as working directly with the College Center, Clark may be guest lecturing for various organizations. If the group dynamics workshop DAMBROSE 151\{ VANVRANKEN AVE .• SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 <!5tSI 374-5193 Complete Faf>ric Care Services E&T. 1827 terprise upon graduation, he- she would do far better to work in a menial job in private en- terprise until such time as he can obtain a position in the private sector that is com- mensurate with his education than take a job with the United States Government while looking for a good occupation with a private business. otherwise, he may ruin his future by tainting himself with Federal ,employment, since it is looked upon with great disdain by the business community and the public in general. In fact for a number of years people have been thought to have disgraced themselVes, if they have worked for the Federal Government. Sincerely yours, Frederick C. Stark, Jr. ' to Speak at Union I strongly encourage all students to see Clark with any questions about the College Center, or just to meet a new friendly face. Be sure to talk with her about extracurricular opportunities and discover what the College Center has to offer. Clark's office is located with Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities office on the third . floor of Old Chapel. Schenectady, N.Y. (Sept. 12)-Dr. Eleanor Baum has the distinction of being the only woman dean of an engineering school in the United States. On Wednesday, September 24 at 11:38 a.m., she will share some of her th·oughts on ' 'Professionalism in Engineering,\ as the guest speaker for the Minerva Hour at The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee of Union College presents The Fall1986 Schedule September 24 ELEANOR BAUM is dean of Pratt Institute's Sch.ool of Engineering. Shr workc<Hor the Sperry Rand Corp. and the General Instruments Corp. before jPining·tht:> Pratt 'faculty in 1965. She has served on the executive committeepf the American Sodt•ty of Engineering Education and been a consultant to the New York City Board of Edtlnu ion and many corporations. Octobc>r l October 8 October 15 ORIN LEHMAN is commissioner()[ the New York Statr Office of Parks, Rt'crration, and Historic Preservation, which operates and administers 146 stat<' parks and 34 historir sit<.•s. His dvic and government activities have· ranged from the Twentirth Cemury Fund's Independent Task Forcr on· Urban Preservation P<Jlicies to thr N(•w York City Board of Corn~c1ion. KENNETH N. GfLPIN is an economic; reporter lor The New Yorh hmes, He graduated £r(lm Union in1972 and rrceivf'd his'M_A. in inlrrnational rrlations from Johns Hopkins University. DOUGLAS LAII.IER practic<' psychoanalysis in Washington, D.C., whrrr he al<o is a srnior fellow at thr Projecl-on Technology, Work. and Characte-r. The- focus ofhis work is the search for fulfillment by young, urban professionals; his book, Modern M·adr~e_ss, was published in August. Hr is a 1965·gradt•ote .of Union. October 22 BLANCHE COONEY and her husband, th.e late James Cooney, rr<!al<'d and produced the Phoen:x, a pari fist quarterly .that appeared in 1938, disapprar~d in 191(), and reappeared in·1970 as a vrhidr·£or artti-Vo?ar sentiment ahd \altcrnativr'' opinion and fiction. She divides her time hl•twccn her farm in wrst{'rn MassachusettS, whcr<' she is. writing a book. and the Smith College Library. where she is a staff mt•mbor. · Onobn 29 JOHN MA\{CHI 1 a Republican state senator born Staten island, is chairman of tht• Scnatc Fin<:~nr<' Commit lee ami an authority 011 government fini!ttlre. He is a member of - the (')U'Ctrtivr committee and board of governorS or tllC Counc·il of Stat~ CoYcrnmcnts. His hon(lrs indudc a chat ion rrom.rhr 1\ssodation of Colleges and Univrrshics of the Stat{'·of Nrw York for his work in .behalf of higher education. November 5 WARREN ROBERT:<;, Distinguis~rd Teaching Professor at the State University of New York at A.lbany, is a specialist in seventeenth and eighteenth-century European cuhural and mtrllertua1 history. He is the. author of Morality and Soc.al Class in E•ghleenth Cenlury Fr~nrh LuertJ..£urt and Painting and Jo.ne Austen and the French Revalutton. Wednesdays, 11:30 a.m. All 'lectures on the Union College campus. AU are welcome. Admission free .. For information: (518) 370 .. 6101. Schaffer Library of Union College. .Dr. Baum was recently named dean -of Pratt Institute's School of Engineering, a position which follows many years of dedication and ac- tivism on the behalf of women working in the traditionally male-dominated profession. Prior to joining the Pratt fac- ulty in·1965, Dr. Baum·worked for both the Sperry Rand Corporation and the General Instrument Corporation. In her new position she is responsible for the curriculum development of the School's varied programs in civil, chemical, electrical and mechanical engineering. · Dr. BaUm. received a B.E.F. from City College of New York on 1959; an M.E.E. in 1961 and, in 1964, a Ph.D. ·from Polytechnic Institute of New York. The Minerva Hour at Union provides an opportunity for hearing from some of the leaders in education; business, academics and other fields, from all over the United States. The public is invited to this free talk. which will take place in Schaffer Library on campus. Should there be an overflow crowd, the location will · be changed to Social Sciences Room 016. Biology Club 1st Meeting Thurs., Sept. 18 4:30p.m. Humanities 117 AJ I interested should attend EARCH ·PAPERS to choose from ..... all subjects Today with VisaiMC or COO 800o.351-0222 : in Calif. 1213)477-8226 Or, rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 idaho Ave. #206-SN; Los Angeles, CA 90025 levels f H 1 ' i l )

,. ) I ' i l ) CONCOl(.J?lENSfS, September 18, 1986 Page7 Welcome Back FROM THE RATH.SKEL.LAR $3.50 mea I credit Open 12 p.m. to 12:a.m. Coming soonfor hU,ngry students like you: Subs ·• Potato Skins l:larmony Foods: Gummy Bears- Yogurt Peanut Clusters Milk Choc;:olate Rai~ins and More Remember usfor -ihose ''Liite Night Cravings'' Freshman Record 199·0 . A limited number of copies of the new Fresh.m·an ·Record are available for $8 per copy from the Office of Student Affairs in Whitaker House. Please call Kathy at x6061 ·to order yours while supplies last. KARATE CLUB ~~~J THUR. FRI. S.S. BUILDING 6 :00 _ 7 : 30 ROOM 014 ·- ARTS·STUDIO 4:30- 6:00 ARTS 215 6:00 - 7:30 IF: INTERESTED YOU ARE WELCOME TO JUST SHOW UP TO ANY CLASS OR CALL MICHAEL ZELLER ti!> 374- 1994 ALL ARE WELCOME!IU LO-NDON INTERNSHIPS • Art/Architecture • Business/Economics • Engineering •· Human/Health Services · . • Journalism/Communications • Performing Arts . • Politics All programmes include: 16 semester hour credits, 10-week internship, apartment, British faculty. Offered fall, spring and summer semesters. BOSTON UNIVERSITY ................................. -;-----o.,-.;. ........ _ ................................................................ .;. ............ -------~-- .. --;..~ .. -------- NAME--------------:--\\--~-- ADDRESS---------~,....-.-,.----- CITY----~-STATE __ ZIP ___ _ o Art/Architecture.; o Business/Econ; D Engineering; o Hum/Health Serv; o Journ/Comm; o Performing Arts; 0 Politics Return To: LondOn lntmnRhins, 143 Bav State Rd., Boston. MA 02~15 (617) 353-9888 A Representative will be on campus Sep.t. 2:1 at 11 :00 a.m, in the Humanities Lounge. All interested parties please at· tend! ~ .. '. . . .1 . ATTENTION SENIORS!! Do you want your own, personal MasterCard or V.isa credit card? Norstar Bank wants to help you get one! _A Banik Representative will be on campus to answer questions and help you on: Dates: Wed., .Sept. 24th Thurs., Sept. 25th Times: ·10:30 am-2:30pm Place: , Old Chapel Watch your mailbox for important information coming to you shortly. ._.;f-~ ~· NO·RSTAR BANK Member FDIC

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, September 18,1986 Qlon.ntrbirnsis FoUI'Ifkd al llmon Collegt 1877 --~-------- -------- Some Rather Lofty Goals Walking across campus, it's impossible to avoid the many monwnents that testify to the ongoing process ()f improvement at Union. We have a new telecom- munications and security system. The Arts Building has been renovated along with the Social Sciences building,. and construction on the Campus Center and Gym is well under way. The course load for professors .has been reduced, thus making Union more attractive to professors as well as students. Complaints heard in past years are being addressed and appropriate changes are being made. Many of the goals that were set for the bettennent of Union have been met. Now is the time to set higher goals to continue to reach for excellence. Why can!t we be the best Liberal Arts College in the country? We have the potential in our vast monetary and human resources. What should we do to improve? We could begin by upholding Union's tradition as a· small private college, with small class size. To do this we should direct more energy toward hiring new professors, and more effectively limiting the size of incoming freshmen classes. As President Morris stated in his convocation speech, we must first develop a \clear intellectual view about what we are about as an educational institution.'' From this basis; goals for the future can be built, and we can continue to im- prove our college. Cross at the Green and the Red! Question: what is more frustrating than trying to get an outside number on the new multi-million dollar telecommunications system (after reading the 16- page instructional booklet)? · Answer: trying to think along the same wave lengths as the genius who is responsible for designing the Schenectady traffic laws. Despite the fact that returning Union students were happy to see that the city has finally replaced its archaic street signs, many have often wondered what traffic controllers were thinking about when they established present methods of overseeing the once-simple left turn. For example, take the aU-too-familiar corner of Nott Terrace and Union Street (outside the Old Blue Gate). One would think that crossing the street in order to get a Jim Dandy would be a simple enough process, . especially when traffic only comes from three directions (instead of the usual four) ! However, if you stand on the corner long enough, you will realize that the \don't walk\ sign never changes. This is due to the fact that there is always traffic proceeding east- west on. Union Street or traffic making turns onto Union Street from Nott Terrace. Effectively, if traffic were constant, you would never be able to cross the street to get that sundae! Furthermore, if one is driving down Union Street and wants· to make a left turn onto Nott Terrace to get to Friendly's, it seems silly that the left can't be made when the light turns green. Drivers have to wait for that quick-changing left turn arrow. Another well-designed intersection is the corner of Erie Boulevard and State Street. Schenectady responded to the right turn on red laws that were passed a few years ago by making it illegal to make a right turn on a green signal at this corner! Question: what is more difficult than walking through the Social Sciences Building without being knocked over by a carpenter and his drill? Answer: finding a legal way to enter the Schenectady Bus Depot when proceeding west on State Street. Schenectady take hetd: it doesn't. take an engineering de~ree at Umon College to f1gure out a way to control the corner of Nott Terrace and Union Street. Letters to the editor and com- mentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. . . ~ LETTERS To Form a More Perfect Union . To the Editor: On Wednesday, September 10. at 11:30 a.m. a motley colored academic procession marched · down the main aisle of ' Memorial Chapel to the . voluminous sounds of the • college organ. This spectacle · was the Opening Convocation in the observance of the 192nd · year of Union College. The start. of the academic year having been officially declared by the Marshal, Professor William Stone, a number of faculty as well as Dean's List students were recognized for. their ef- forts during the previous year. The focus of the ceremony, the President's address, followed the choir's performance of the 1st movement of Brahm's Motet \Create in Me, 0 God.\ . The Convocation concluded with \Ode to Union\ llS the procession marched baclt down the aisle. Wednesd~y 111orning's COnvocation had been a ,illlique ceremony for Union C()llege; unfortunately, howe:ver, not many were in the eh~pel to witness it. The she (){ the audience was that of a :Biology 11) lecture. Convocation. means \a calling together.'? For certain reasons the call was,not loud enough-or those: that did hear it did not respo111L Traditionally CoiiV()Cation provided the . chance ft»r the incoming class to jcill ;the up- perclassmen and togetller all would listen as the proeside!lt of the college delivered his ad:.... dress full of wisdom .and advice. Together all saluted their c<lllege and its pllrsuit Df discipline and enlightelllDent of the mind. Convocatio11 was the official beginning· of an academic year as Com- mencement was the official ending. If the ceremony .of . Con- vocation is to survive at Union into its 1~3rd year and beyond, better planning must be un- dertaken. For e11:ample it could be held on a day or at a time When .no classes meet • .Ablo, to attract a greater number of students and faculty a well known person could be invited to speak (Prince Charles'?). In sbort if we are going to continue to be \a Union of people,\ ConvocatiDn should become an important part of .every academic year. Yours Sincerely, Seth Christian Anderson · · Class of 1987 Police Promote :Safe Driving· To the Editor: On behalf of. Chief Nelson and the City Police. Department welcome to the Schenectady area and Union College. As a service to the out-of-town students that .are attending the college this year and as a . reminder to ,the local students who commute to and from Union, we would like to take this opportWlity to advise you of the following local ordinaces that may be helpful to you if you-live in, or travel through, the City of Schenectady. There are several streets in the city, that are classified as - \Priority Streets.\ During times of snowstorms, there is no parking or standing on these streets, so that the city plows may clear the snow. The priority streets are marked with large. white signs with red letters stating \NO PARKING OR STANDING AFTER THREE. INCH SNOWFALL UNTIL CLEARED.\ Each year we have citizens and out-of-town visitors in- terpret this sign incorrectly. \UNTil:. CLEARED\ means untO.. the snowstorm is over and the street is completely cleared. Please do not be one of the many motorists each year that follows the plow down a street and parks at the curb while it is still snowing. Wait for the end of the storm and the completion of plowing operations. Fines for parking in violation of the Priority Street Ordinance are $15.00 plus towing fees. In several areas of the city, there are signs restricting parking to alternate days. They ·are marked with parking signs that state \NO PARKING THIS SIDE STARTING 8AM TUE THURS .SAT SUN.\ Signs placed on the opposite side ofthe street will be similar, All Letters to the Editor must be typed · double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone . . numbers for verification of. the letter. Names nora mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the · right to reject letters that are libelous or do .not conform to standard of good taste. except with the alternating days being \MON WED~ FRI.\ The reason for the altern~;~te parking is to make all lanes ()f traffic available for street main· .tenance and plowing. Please read these signs· caref11Uy 8lld park on the proper side. Fines for this violation are $11).0(). Occasionally during tile winter months, the City will clear the snowbanks fi'oxn those streets that have become narrow due to plo\Ving, Whea tltey do this, they J)lace tem- .porary signs in the Sll<lwbanks twelve hours in advance, warning motorists noU«J park irl those areas at the time in- dicated on the sigll. 'The· city crews have a twenty·f<Jur hour schedule of snow removal, S() the parking restrictions may vary depending .on -wbllt time of day the street is sclleliuled t<l i:Je cleared. Cars Jlar>ked in violation of these siglls are fined $14.00, plus towing fees. Temporary \NO PARKING'' Signs are also used to restt1ict parking during parades and . special events. One parade this coming year is scltedllled ·for State Street ( RolltE' 5) <ln Friday, the dar after Thanksgiving. Last year- during · this same parade, forty cllrs WP.re tagged and to-wed away at the owner's expense:. · . Although many .of tile cities and towns in the IJortlleast d<l not use parking meters, metered parking is still 11tUized in the Clowntown area of the city. When parking a .vehicle at a parking meter, the . front bumper of the car should be parallel with the meter being used. If you happen to be parked with the meter alongsidE your vehicle, you might be held responsible for putting money in both meters. READ THE FRONT OF THE METER CAREFULLY, SOME ARE FIVE CENT METERS AND SOME ARE TEN CENT METERS. . The speed limit in the city is 30 MPH with· the exception of Route 800, Route 7 (Crosstown arterial), and upper ~tate Street (Route 5). Where there are exeptions to the 30 MPH limit, signs are posted to infonn you of the increased limit. Remember that in the area of schools, the speed limit is only 15 MPH when school is in session. The speed limit in the city is enforced by r-adar equipped police cars. Once again, welcome to the Schenectady area, and we hope that your stay in the Schenectady area and your attendance at Union is a safe, enjoyable and educational one. Very truly yours, Sgt. Eric L. Yager Traffic Division

Page 8 CONCORDIENSlS, September 18, 1986 <!t111tfllfbitttSiS LETTERS Foundt-d al l lnwn Collegt /8;\~ ------ --- Some Rather Lofty Goals Walking across campus, it's impossible to avoid the many monuments that testify to the ongoing process of improvement at Union. We have a new telecom- munications and security system. Th.e Arts Building has been renovated along with the Social Sciences building, and construction on the Campus Center and Gym is well under way. The course load for professors has been reduced, thus making Union more attractive to professors as well as students. Complaints heard in past years are being addressed and appropriate changes are being made. Many of the goals that were set for the betterment ·Of Union have been met. Now is the time to set higher goals to continue to reach for excellence. Why can?t we be the best Liberal Arts College in the coun.try? We have the potential in our vast monetary and human resources. What should we do to improve? We could begin by upholding Union's tradition as a small private college, with small class size. To do this we should direct more energy toward hiring new professors, and more effectively limiting the size of incoming freshmen classes. As President M()rris stated in his convocation speech, we must first develop a \clear intellectual view about what we are about as an educational institution.\ From this basis, goals for the future can be built, and we can continue to im- prove our college. Cross at the Green and the Red! Question: what is more frustrating than trying to get an outside number on the new malti-million dollar telecommunications system (after reading the 18- page instructional booklet)? Answer: trying to think along the same wave lengths as the genius who is responsible for designing the Schenectady traffic laws. Despite the fact that returning Union students were happy to see that the city has finally replaced its archaic street signs, many have often wondered what traffic controllers were thinking about when they established present methods of overseeing the once-simple left turn. For example, take the all-too-familiar corner of Nott Terrace and Union Street (outside the Old Blue Gate). One would think that crossing the street in order to get a Jim Dandy would be a simple enough process, especially when traffic only comes from three directions (instead of the usual four)! However, if you stand on the corner long enough, you will realize that the \don't walk\ sign never changes. This is due to the fact that there is always traffic procee1ing east- west on Union Street or traffic making turns onto Union Street from Nott Terrace. Effectively, if traffic were constant, you would never be able to cross the street to get that sundae! Furthermore, if one is driving down Union Street and wants to make a left turn onto Nott Terrace to get to Friendly's, it seems silly that the left can't be made when the light turns green. Drivers have to wait for that quick-changing left turn arrow. Another well-designed intersectien is the corner of Erie Boulevard and State Stieet. Schenectady responded to the right turn on red laws that were passed a few years ago by making tt illegal to make a right turn on agree~ signal at t~s.corner! . . Question: what 1s more difficult than walkmg through the Social Sciences Building without being knocked over by a carpenter and his drill? Answer: finding a legal way to enter the Schenectady Bus Depot when proceeding west on State Street. Schenectady take he~d: it doesn't. take an engineering det:,ree at Umon College to f1gure out a way to control the corner of N ott 'Terrace and Union Street. Letters to the editor and com- mentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis. To Form a More Perfect Union To the Editor: On Wednesday, September 10 at 11:30 a.m. a motley colored academic procession march.ed down the main aisle of Memorial Chapel to the voluminous sounds of the college organ. 'This spectacle was the Opening Convocation in the observance of the 192nd year of Union College. The start . of the academic year having been officially declared by the Marshal, Professor William Stone, a number of faculty as well as Dean's List students were recognized for their ef- forts during the previous year. The focus of the ceremony, the President's address, followed the choir's performance of the 1st movement of Brahm's Motet \Create in Me, 0 God.\ The Convocation concluded with \Ode to Union\ as the pmcession marched back down the aisle. Wednesday morning's Convocation had been a unique ceremony for Union College; unfortunately, however, not many were in the chapel to witness it. The size of the audience was that of a Biology 10 lecture. Co:nvocation means \a caHirtg together.\ For certain reasons the caU was not load enough-or those that did hear it did not respond. Traditionally Convocation .provided the chance for the incoming class to join the up- perclassmen and together all would listen as the president of the college delivered his ad- dress full of wisdom and advice. T()gether all saluted their college and its pursuit of discipline and enlightenment of the :m.ind. Convocation was the official beginning of an academic year as Cam- mencement was the official endillg. If the ceremony of Con- vocation is to survive at Union into its 193rd year and beyond, better planning :must be un- dertaken. For example it could be held on a day or at a time wheB no classes meet. Alse, to attract a greater number of students and faculty a well known perso:n could he invited t(:) speak (Prince Charles?). In short if we are going to continue to be \a UnioB of people,\ Convocation should become an important part of every academic year. Yours Sincerely, Seth Christian Anderson Class of 19B7 Police Promote Safe Driving To the Editor: On behalf of Chief Nelson and the City Police Department welcome to the Schenectady area aRd Union College. As a service to the out-of-town students that are attending the college this year and as a reminder to the local students who commute to and from Union, we would like to take this opportunity to advise you of the following local ordinaces that may be helpful to you if you live in, or travel through, the City of Schenectady. There are several streets in the city that are classified as \Priority Streets.\ During times of snowstorms, there is no parking or standing on these streets, so that the city plows may clear the snow. The priority streets are marked with large white signs with red letters stating \NO PARKING OR STANDING AFTER THREE INCH SNOWFALL UNTIL CLEARED.\ Each year we have citizens and out-of-town visitors in- terpret this sign incorrectly. \UNTIL CLEARED\ means Wltil the snowstorm is over and the street is completely cleared. Please do not be one of the many motorists each year that follows the plow down a street and parks at the curb while it is still snowing. Wait for the end of the storm and the completion of plowing operations. Fines for parking in violation of the Priority Street Ordinance are $15.00 plus towing fees. In several areas of the city, there are signs restricting parking to alternate days. They ·are marked with parking signs that state \NO PARKING TillS SIDE STARTING SAM TUE THURS SAT SUN.\ Signs placed on the opposite side of the street will be similar, All Letters to the Editor must be typed double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than f.cur people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nor- mally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that · are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. exc:ept with the alternating days being ''MON WED & FRI.\ The reason for the alternate parking is to make all lanes of traffic available for street main- tenance and plowing. Please read these signs carefully and park on the proper side. Fines for this violation are $10.00. Occasionally during the winter months, the City will clear the snowbanks from those streets that have become narrow due to plowing. When they do this, they place tem- porary signs in the snowbanks twelve hours in advance, warning motorists not to park in those areas at the time in- dicated on the sign. The city crews have a twenty-four hour schedule of snow removal, so the parking restrictions may vary depending on what time of day the street is scheduled to be cleared. Cars parked in violation of these signs are fined $14.00, plus towing fees. Temporary \NO PARKING\ signs are also used to restrict pal:\king during parades an<l special events. One parade this corning year is scheduled for State Street (Route 5) on Friday, the day after Thanksgiving. Last year during this same parade, forty cars WP.re tagged and towed away at the owner's expense. Although many of the cities and towns in the northeast do not use park~ng meters~ metered parking is still utilizeCl in the downtown area of the city. When parking a vehicle at a parking meter, the front bumper of the car should be parallel with the meter being used. If you happen to be parke(l with the meter alongside your vehicle, you might be held. responsible for putting money in both meters. READ THE FRONT OF THE METER CAREFULLY, SOME ARE FIVE CENT METERS AND SOME ARE TEN CEN'I' METERS. The speed limit in the city is 30 MPH with the exception of Route 890, Route 7 (Crosstown arterial), and upper State Street (Route 5). Where there are exeptions to the 30 MPH limit, signs are posted to infonn you of the increased limit. Remember that in the area of schools, the speed limit is only 15 MPH when school is in session. The speed limit in the city is enforced by radar equipped police cars. Once again, welcome to the Schenectady area, and we h()pe that your stay in the Schenectady area and your attendance at Union is a safe, enjoyable and educational one. Very truly yours, Sgt. Eric L. Yager Traffic Division

CONC(]JlDIENSIS, September 18, 1986 Page9 LETTERS, Fourth Amendment Violated To the Editor: Once upon . a time, King George's soldiers searched people indiscriminately in order to uncover those few who were committing cdmes against. the Crown. The American people were outraged. To insure that such indiscriminate searches could never again happen tit America, they wrote the Fourth Amend:.. ment to the Constitution: \The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probably cause, supported · :by oath or affi.rnlation .... \ Or .in other words, you can't search EVERYONE, innocent and guilty alike, to find the FEW who ARE guilty. President Reagan is getting a lot. of press over his proposed voluntary dru~ · testing of federal employees; un- fortunately, neither the press nor the people have reacted to the real danger of Reagan's plan. By allowing these supposedly \voluntary\· tests, Reagan is violating his Presidential oath to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in particular, the Fourth Amendment. He. is allowing a basic principle of the people to be destroyed; he is helping to make America ripe for another King George. President Reagan has allowe<l tbe Army, Navy, Justice and Treasury Depart- ments to conduct drUg testing (searches) on. civilians without probable cause as long ago as November 1963! He also allowed the Postal Service .to drug test (search) applicants Wi.Qiout probable cause. Many argue that drug .testing is required for job safety-job performance; pUblic safety is paramount. :Unfortmtately drug testing DOES NOT measure job performance, therefore, the job .performance argument must be considered as ·merely a gim- mick to gain ''CONTROL.'' And predictably, private industry followed his lead. Now 25 percent of major American companies have instituted drug testing programs. Where does it stop? Sincerely, Richard Prawdzienski Do Not Work for the U.S. - To the Editor: I have a Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia University and am retired after having worked- for many years for the Federal Government~s Social Security Administration and Health Care Financing Administratien. I very strongly urge all college graduates not to work for ~the United Sates Government, because: 1. The wages and salaries of Federal Government em- ployees are on the average ahnost 22 percent below the pay that employees in private en- terprise receive for essentially the same jobs. The most pay that a Federal Government employee can receive is $66,000 a year (very few of them reach that or get anywhere near it), .. which is very small compared to the yearly salaries of many private ~company executives which are in the hundreds of thousands. of dollars and which in some cases are in the millions of dollars. 2. Federal employees have to pay a high percentage of the premiums for their health and life insurance, whereas, many . employers in private enterprise pay all of such premiums for their employees. 3. Federal employees have to pay into Medicare's Hospital Trust Fund, and Federal em- ployees hired on or after January 1, 1984 must pay into Social Security's other trust funds. This is in addition to paying into the Civil Serv:ice Retirement System. These mandatory payments constitute just a sneaky way by which the Reagan Administ~ation. and its reactionary albes . m the Congress have taken the money of Federal Government em- ployees to shore l;IP Medicare and Social Secur1ty. Federal employees have their own health insurance system and cannot bear any additional expense for that. Also, they bad a simple, good retirement , system . which recently . ~nd stupidly has been changed mto a three-tiered complexity · consisting of Social Security~ an annUity, and a thrift savings . plan. . .· •... _ . .. . ., . 4. The Reagan Administration has raised Federal employees' and retirees' health insurance premiums to exorbitant levels and cut their health: insu,-ance cov~rage drastically. 5. According to the Congressional Budget Office Federal Governmen.t em,. ployees receive less vacation and holidaY. time than do many people in private enterprise. 6. The Congressional Budget Office also states that em- ployees of the Federal Government receive less sick time than do many private enterprise employees. 7. Federal employees work a 40 hour week while many private enterprise workers have work weeks of less hours. 8. For many years Federal employees have paid 7 percent of their total pay into· their retirement fund. They have had to pay into their fund far more than people covered by Social Security have been required to pay into the Social Security trust funds: The overwhehning majority of private enterprise retirement' plans are fully paid for by the employers with no employee contributions reqUired, and private plans are protected by a Federal law, the Pension Benefit Guarantee Statute. 9. Federal Government employees do not receive Christmas or any other bonuses, or have profit sharing plans, stock option plans, etc. 10. Federal employees are forbidden to engage in politics. This is a complete violation of their Constitutioniil rights of free expression and association. 11. Federal Government retirees fonnerly received 1 percent of their annuities (commonly called pensions) added to the annuities at the tinle of retirement and cost of living increases each year in order to at least fraction~lly compensate them for the low pay that they had been given while working. Now they do not get the 1 percent add-on, and they only receive 1 cost of living increase per year (and they have not always received that during the last few years). 12. Federal retirees bave to ·. . . . . ... '•.' ...... COMMENTARIES D'Amato Speaks of Past and Future ByPAULSCHOP September, although it is the ninth month on the calendar, is actually the first month for mll!ly years. The academic rear, the television season, and · f(looball season all begin in September. This year, one more seaoon.canbe added to that list, an-d that is the campaign seasm. On November ·6, . voters in New York State will decide who . shollld hold several major of- fiCEs. These offices include the governorship and one United States Senatorial seat. Also to be dEcided this year will be who sbollld represent each of the state's 150 Assembly and 61 Se11ate districts in Albany when tll.e legislature begins its next sessiDn in January. In addition, V()ters in each of New York's 34 Bo!U!e districts will choose an indi'Vidual to represent them in C()ngress. ..Asa service to Concordiensis, readers, this newspaper will carey a weekly analysis of the 1985 campaign season, clllminating with a post-election slll'Vey of who won and who lost and why. This column will focus primarily on the major statewide races and on some local ones as well. \l'his week's coluinn will focus 011 .Senator Alfonse D' Amato, ViiJ.() is currently running for- a seccmd term against DEmocratic Party nominee Mark Green and Liberal Party (!boice John Dyson. On Sep- tember 9, Green upset Dyson in . a statewide Democratic 'Primary. Green, a new comer to politics,· spent only one-tenth of wbat John Dyson spent ( $5 tr.illlion) on his campaign. The primary attracted a record nllrnber of registered Democrats, 13 percent, an all- tillle low. Green is the first ca11didate ever to be endorsed by Ralph Nader, whom Green has worked closely with in the · past. Dyson bas served in several governmental positions in New York State, such as Secretary of Commerce. He • als(J has a personal fortune estimated at $25 million, and in addition to these assets, he is an heir to his father's $500 million fortune. Recently D' Aqrato granted Concordiensis a- personal In- terview. The Senator was asked questions on a variety of topics, ranging from what he believed to be his most noteworthy ac- complishments while in office, to his goals for a second tenn, to how the recent tax reform pacJtage will affect New Yorkers in· gene1:al, ~nd the state's college students in particular. The following is the Senator's response: \For the past five and a half years, 1 have had the privilege of serving the people of New York State as a United States Senator. In that time, I have been a .fighter for New York, ensuring that our great state gets its fair share in Washington. 'l'b,e battle against the scourge of crime and drugs has been a top priority of mine, and I have fought for to~gher measures against criminals and drug traffickers. It is a sad fact that the only drug-related statistic going doWn is the age of the first-time User. The war on drugs cannot be won without a concerted, comprehensive plan of attack against the drug dealers and pushers who plague our children. To wage this war, I have secured vital resources to fight drug trafficking. Throughout New York State, hundreds of additional Federal prosecutors, Drug Enforcement Administration Agents and Customs Inspectors ha:ve been fighting this epidemic. I have also worked to ensure that New Yor~ State gets its fair share of Federal fWlds for economic development~ Over 500,000 new jobs have been created since my arrival in the United States Senate. The Urban Development Action Grant Program has translated into hmtdreds of millions of dollars in Federal funds for New York State. I have fought for continuation of the UDAG program, and preserved the Section 202 program which bas brought 6,000 federally sub- sidized apartments for our elderly and handicapped. Throughout my term in the Senate, I have fought for student financial aid assistance programs~ When I was a student at Syracuse Law School, I bad to work as a janitor to pay for my education. I am aware how hard it is for students to make ends meet. I have supported legislation which provided increased funding for all grants, Guaranteed Student Loans, and the College Work-Study program for Fiscal Year 1985. For Fiscal Year 1984, I sup- ported $2.8 billion for Pell Grants,. and $2.25 billion for Guaranteed Student Loans. In 1982, when the GSL program faced severe cuts, I fought to restore funding to aid our nation's students. In recognition of my efforts, I was named the recipient of the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities Distinguished Service Award. As a fighter for the forgotten middle class, I have fought to retain the deductibility of state and local taxes, and introduced legislation to put a cap on in- terest rates. I have been greatly concerned with the tax package and the way itaffectsNewYorkers. The current package greatly reduces taxes for middle in- come workers. It also increases the exemption for non-i.temtzers to $2,000 in standard deductions. This is particularly applicable to new college graduates who are entering the work force for the first time. The loss of the sales tax deduction will hurt all New Yorkers. I have fought to retain the deductibility of state and local taxes and IRAs, both of which benefit New Yorkers. In a second tenn in the t:nited States Senate, I wiil continue to work for the interests of all New Yorkers, fighting to ensure that we all get our fair share.'' Get Out of Our SpaCe By JOHN MORGAN 'The Union College campus was far from .stagnant this past snmmer. Construction on Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gymnasium proceeded over the course of the entire summer - a pleasing fact to report. Two Sliillillers ago it was much cl()ser to August than mid-June . wllen construction began. As projections presently stand, the Gymnasium Will be ready for winter tenn. According to the College the latest the new :Stlldent Union will be com-1 pleted is June .of 1967. At this time last year, grumbling was plentiful. Few of this year's se11iors expected to see either stl\ucture completed during their collegiate careers. Eoth construction projects 11ar income tax on every cent of tlleir annuities once they get l:lack what they paid into their ann.uity fund (they have already )laid income tax on that). As -with all annuities the money tb.at they paid into the annUity i110d is not taxable except for 1hat portion (if any) of it that tb.ey get back more than 3 years after the date on which they retire. 13. In order to provide a survivor's annuity for his or her spouse the average Federal retireee must accept about an 8 were undertaken to allow more space for student meetings and activities. The inconveniences that resulted were widely criticized. Construction progress has brightened the. long range prospects for sufficient student activities space. HowP.ver, at the present time, space that students used to meet in last academic year is being greatly encroached upon. The third floor of Old Chapel was used as the layout room for Concordiensis, a work space for Gamet and W.R.U.C., as well as a meeting place for other student organizations. Currently, a third of the work space has been rendered useless to students by a make- shift classroom set up. Outside groups that rent meeting space percent reduction in his or her annuity from its inception. 14. In the past college graduates sought employment with the Federal Governme~1t mainly because of job security and retirement at a com- paratively young age on a good annuity. Recent legislation has cut down Federal job security, job security has been increased in the private sector by law and recent court decisions, and many private company pension plans provide benefits (in- cluding .e.ArlY retirement) that from the College are currently being scheduled in this· area. When the plan to place a forty seat classroom on the third floor of Old Chapel was formulated, it was proposed that evening graduate classes be held there. The evening is the most popular meeting time of the tuition paying undergraduate students. Students complained vigorously when space was limited last year, yet the College bas further hampered student meetings and the Student Activities office by occupying the third floor of Old Chapel with meetings that are unrelated to Student Activities. Poor judgment has been exercised, and just when it seemed students would be praising the College's decision makers. are equal to or naore generous than those that are given by the Federal Civil Service Retirement System. J. Peter Grace, Chairman of the Board of W. R. Grace and Co., receives his full salary and fringe benefits plus a pension of $357,500 per year! He is also chainnan of the commission which was supposed to make recommendations to eliminate waste in the Federal Govern- ment ( ahnost all of which is due to enormous overcharging by Continued on page 6

CONCORDIENSfS, September 18, 1986 Page9 LETTERS Fourth Amendment Violated To the Editor: Once upon a time, King George's soldiers searched people indiscriminately in order to uncover those few who were committing crimes against the Crown. The American people were outraged. To insure that such indiscriminate searches could never again happen in America, they wrote the Fourth Amend- ment to the Constitution: \The right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probably cause, supported by oath or affirmation .... \ Or in other words, you can't search EVERYONE, innocent and guilty alike, to find the FEW who ARE guilty. President Reagan is getting a lot of press over his proposed voluntary drug testing of federal employees; un- fortunately, neither the press nor the people have reacted to the real danger of Reagan's plan. By allowing these supposedly \voluntary\ tests, Reagan is violating his Presidential oath to preserve, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States, and in particular, the ' Fourth Amendment. He is allowing a basic principle ef the people to be destroyed; he is helping to make America ripe for another King George. President Reagan has allowed the Army, Navy, Justice and Treasury Depart- ments to conduct drug testing (searches) on civilians without probable cause as long ago as November 1983! He also allowed the Postal Service to drug test (search) applicants without probable cause. Many argue that drug testing is required for job safety-job performance; public safety is paramount. Unfortunately drug testing DOES NOT measure job performance, therefore, the job performance argument must be considered as merely a gim- mick to gain \CONTROL.\ And predictably, private industry followed his lead. Now 25 percent of major American companies have instituted drug testing programs. Where does it stop? Sincerely, Richard Prawdzienski Do Not Work for the U.S. To the Editor: I have a Bachelor of Arts degree from Columbia University and am retired after having worked for many years for the Federal Government's Social Security Administration and Health Care Financing Administration. I very strongly urge all college graduates not to work for the United Sates Government, because: 1. The wages and salaries of Federal Government em- ployees are on the average almost 22 percent below the pay that employees in private en- terprise receive for essentially the same jobs. The most pay that a Federal Government employee can receive is $66,000 a year (very few of them reach. that or get anywhere near it), which is very small compared to the yearly salaries of many private company executives which are in the hundreds of thousands of dollars and which in some cases are in the millions of dollars. 2. Federal employees have to pay a high percentage of the premiums for their health and life insurance, whereas, many employers in private enterprise pay all of such premiums for their employees. 3. Federal employees have to pay into Medicare's Hospital Trust Fund, and Federal em- ployees hired on or after January 1, 1984 must pay into Social Security's other trust funds. This is in addition to paying into the Civil Service Retirement System. These mandatory payments constitute just a sneaky way by which the Reagan Administ~ation. and its reactionary alhes m the Congress haYe taken the money of Federal Government . em- ployees to shore up Medtcare and Social Security. Federal employees have their own health insurance system and cannot bear any additional expense for that. Also, ~hey had a simple, good retirement . system which recently . ~nd stupidly has been changed mto a three-tiered complexity consisting of Social Security, an annuity, and a thrift savings plan. 4. The Reagan Administration has raised Federal employees' and retirees' health insurance premiums to exorbitant levels and cut their health insurance coverage drastically. 5. According to the Congressional Budget Office Federal Government em- ployees receive less vacation and holiday time than do many people in private enterprise. 6. The Congressional Budget Office also states that em- ployees of the Federal Government receive less sick time than do many private enterprise employees. 7. Federal employees work a 40 hour week while many private E'nterprise workers have work weeks of less hours. 8. For many years Federal employees have paid 7 percent of their total pay into their retirement fund. They have had to pay into their fund far more than people covered by Social Security have been required to pay into the Social Security trust funds. The overwhelming majority of private enterprise retirement plans are fully paid for by the employers with no employee contributions required, and private plans are protected by a Federal law, the Pension Benefit Guarantee Statute. 9. Federal Government employees do not receive Christmas or any other bonuses, or have profit sharing plans, stock option plans, etc. 10. Federal employees are forbidden to engage in politics. This is a complete violation of their Constitutional rights of free expression and association. 11. Federal Government retirees formerly received 1 percent of their annuities (commonly called pensions) added to the annuities at the time of retirement and cost of living increases each year in order to at least fractionally compensate them for the low pay that they had been given while working. Now they do not get the 1 percent add-on, and they only receive 1 cost of living increase per year (and they have not always received that during the last few years). 12. Federal retirees have to COMMENTARIES D' Amato Speaks of Past and Future ByPAULSCHOP September, although it is the ninth month on the calendar, is actually the first month for many years. The academic year, the television season, and football seasan all begin in September. This year, one more season .can be added to that list, and that is the campaign season. On November 6, voters in New York State will decide who should hold several major of- fices. These of£ices include the governorship and one United States Senatol\'ial seat. Also to be decided this yea,r will be who should represent each of the state's 150 Assembly and 61 Senate districts in Albany when the legislature begins its next session in January. In addition, voters in each of New York's 34 House districts will choose an individual to 1epresent them in Cong1·ess. As a service to Concordiensis, readers, this newspaper win carry a weeltly analysis of the 1986 campaign season, culminating with a post-election survey of who won and who lost and why. This column will focus primarily on the major statewide races and on some local ones as well. This week's column will focus on Senator Alfonse D' Amato, who is currently running for a second term against Democratic Party nominee Mark Green and Liberal Party choice John Dyson. On Sep- tember 9, Green upset Dyson in a statewide Democratic primary. Green, a new comer to politics, spent only one-tenth of what John Dyson spent ( $5 million) on his campaign. The primary attracted a record number of registered Democrats, l:J percent, an all- time low. Green is the first candidate ever to be endorsed by Ralph Nader, whom Green has worked closely with in the past. Dyson has served in several governmental positions in New York State, such as Secretary of Commerce. He also has a personal fortune estimated at $25 million, and in addition to these assets, he is an heir to his father's $500 million fortune. Recently D' A:rpato granted Concordiensis a· personal in- terview. The Senator was asked questions on a variety af topics, ranging from what he believed to be his most noteworthy ac- complishments while in office, to his goals for a second term, to how the recernt tax reform package will affect New Yot·kers. in general, and the state's college students in particular. The following is the Serrator's response: \For the past five and a half years, I have had the privilege ef serving the people of New York State as a United States Senator. In that time, I have been a fighter for New York, ensurin.g that our great state gets its fair share in Washington. The battle against the scourge of crime and drugs has been a top priority of mine, and I have fought for tougher measures against criminals and drug traffickers. It is a sad fact that the only drug-related statistic going down is the age of the first-time user. The war on drugs cannot be won without a concerted, comprehensive plan of attack against the drug dealers and pushers who plague our children. To wage this war, I have secured vital resources to fight drug trafficking. Throughout New York State, hundreds of additional Federal prosecutors, Drug Enforcement Administration Agents and Customs Inspectors have been fighting this epidemic. I have also worked to ensure that New York State gets its fair share of Federal funds for economic development. Over 500,000 new jobs have been created since my arrival in the United States Senate. The Urban Development Action Grant Program has translated into hundreds of millions of dollars in Federal funds for New York State. I have fought for continuation of the UDAG program, and pres~rved the Section 202 prograrn which has brought 6,000 fellerally sub- sidized apartments for om elderly and handic3pped. Throughout my te-rrn in the Senate, I have foaght for student financial aid assistance programs. When I was a student at Syracuse Law School, I had to work as a janitor to pay for my education. I am aware how hard it is for students to make ends meet. I have supported legislation which provided increased funding for all grants, Guaranteed Student Loans, and the Coll~ge 'Work-Study program for Fiscal Year 1985. For Fiscal Yeai' 1~4. I sup- ported $2.8 billi()~n for Pell Grants, and $2.25 biHian for Guaranteed Stude1lt Laans. In 1982, when the GSL program faced severe cuts, I fought to restore funding to aid our nation's students. In recognition of my efforts, I was named the recipient of the National Association of Independent Colleges and U11iversities Distinguished Service Award. As a fighter for the forgotten middle class, I have fought to retain the deductibility of state and local taxes, and introduced legislation to put a cap on in- terest rates. I have been greatly concerned with the tax package and the way it affects New'Yorkers. The current package greatly reduces taxes for middle in- come workers. It als~ increases the exemption for non-.temlzers to $2,ll00 in standar<l <ieductions. This is particularly applicable to new college g1aduates who are entering the work force for the first time. The loss of th€ sale.!! tax deduction will hurt all New Yorkers. I have fougllt to retain the deductibility of state and local taxes and IRA.s, both of which benefit New Yorkers. In a second term in the Vnited States Senate, I wi: .. J ~ontinue to work for the interests of all New Yorkers, fighting to ensure that we all get our fair shai'e.\ Get Out of Our Space By JOliN MORGAN The Union College campus was far from stagnant this past summer. Construction on Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gymnasium proceeded over the course of the entire summer - a pleasing fact to report. Two summers ago it was much closer to August than mid-June when construction began. As projections presently stand, the Gymnasium. will be ready for winter term. According to the College the latest the new Student Union will be com\ pleted is June of 1987. At this time last year, grumbling was plentiful. Few of this year's seniors expected to see either structure completed during their collegiate careers. Both construction projects pay income tax on every cent of their annuities once they get back what they paid into their annuity fund. (they have already paid income tax on that). As with all annuities the money that they paid into the annuity fund is not taxable except for that portion (if any) of it that they get back more than 3 years after the date on which they retire. 13. In <lrder to provide a survivor's annuity for his or her spouse the average Federal retireee must accept about an 8 were undertaken to allow more space for student meetings and activities. The inconveniences that resulted were widely criticized. Construction progress has brightened the long range prospects for sufficient student activities space. HowP.ver, at the present time, space that students used to meet in last academic year is being greatly encroached upon. The third floor of Old Chapel was used as the layout room for C()ncordiensis, a work space for Garnet and W.R.U.C., as well as a meeting place for other student organizations. Currently, a third of the work space has been rendered useless to students by a make- shift classroom set up. Outside groups that rent meeting space pe1·cent reduction in his or her annui~y from its inception. 14. In the past college graduates sought employment with the Federal Governme~1t mainly because of job security and retirement at a com- paratively young age on a good annuity. Recent legislation has ~ut down. Federal job security, JOb secur1ty has been increased in the private sector by law and recent court decisions, and many private company pension plans provide benefits (in- eluding early retirement) that from the College are currently being scheduled in this area. When the plan to place a forty seat classroom on tile third floor of Old Chapel was fonnulated, it was proposed that evening graduate classes b.e held there. The evening is the most popular meeting time of the tuition paying undergradu..:~te students. Students C{)[n p lained vigorously when space was limited last year, yet the College has further hampered student meetings and the Student Activities office by occupying the thir<l fl()or of Old Cha.pel with meetln.gR that are unrelated to Student Activities. Poor judgment has been exercised, and just when it seemed students would be praising the Colleg,e•s decision makers. are equal to or rnore generous than those that are given by the Federal Civil Service Retirement System. J. PetE'r Grace, Chairman of the Board ofW. R. Gracea11d Co .• receiws his full salary and fringP benefits plus a pension of $357,500 per year! He is also chairman of the commission which was suppose-d to make recommendation.s to eliminate waste in the FedEral Govern- ment (almost all of which is due to enormous overcharging by Continued on page 6 ' . . : . ' - ,' . r ~ - ' '. , • • • ' • . ' . . . ' . ' j j j ~ I I I

Pa~(' 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 18, 1986 THE ARTS Orientation To The Arts By P·ENNIMORGANSTEIN · The Music Department offers numerous opportunities for students of all different musical backgrounds. Thjs is achieved by a talented, diversified, en- thusiastic faculty. The department is chaired by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, the director ofthe Union College Choir. Meetings are held Mondays and Wednesdays from 7: 00-8: 30 .p.m. Students will be required to audition and can expect to be placed according to their ability. Although students with experience are preferred, all are welcome to attend. The choir is scheduled to perform the Saturday of Homecoming. Future plans include a tour of Florida, scheduled for the end of winter term. The Union College Chamber · Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Hilary .Tann is seeking new members, JOLt Pance Sc. edult: especially. violinists and violists .. As.ofnow, Prof. Tann is aiming for a concert the beginning of winter term. The group will be performing Beethoven's First Sympholly~ Mendelssohn's Fingals OVer- ture, also known as the Hebrides as well as Haydh~s Trumpet Concert in E flat. For those students who play woodwind and brass in- struments, there is the cone!ert band. tile band is conducted by Sean Lowery and it is best ,tc contact him for more in· formation. As of now, meetillg:s are s«:heduled for Tuesd~y evenings. If j~z?; is more your style; tllen be s111eto contact Mark Slaga at 386-4:4~0. Although definit~ timesf~>r the ensemble have n()t been set, its continuation i.s assured. ··- ... Private instrUmental lessons are available as well If in· terested be sw-e to contact Professor Tann. Lessons in classical and jazz piano, drums, percussion, guitar, violin, flute, cello, trumpet,· and any other instruments are available upon request. · Professor Ross is a new ad- dition to the Music Department and is qUite an exciting one. H~ is an ethnomusician and is teaching a World Music Course. He is also teaching a course in the upcoming winter term. His expertise on the synthesizer in concordance with his e~ensive knowledge of African and Indian music and jazz guitar playing will all be combined t}lis fall in a spectacular ccmcert. In addition, he is also trying to assemble all flutists for a Carillon piece iflthe Bell Tower. Vera Orl()cl<, dancer and choreographer. I Appointment Announced The Arts Department an- nmmced the appointme11t of Vera Orlock, dancel' and cb()l~eographer from New York --------\\\'::;;;jiilliiii~-----:-----;-:.-~---..r------...----; Cit,-, as a new teacher in. the choreography has been acknowledged by grants from the Ohio Arts Council and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte; where she was a Visiting AssiStant Professor for two years. She has also taught at Case Western reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio (where she received her B.S. in harp and music education and an MFA iri dance-theater) and at Indiana University, Bloomington. 6·7:Jp :t mprtJvi~o...tiD c\ mp45t.iton. ; fhJtrn. Int Nodern 7 tJP- '1 1 nt •...;._.__..;;;;;_. . Dance Practicum. Ms. Or-lock willteach all the dance clas5es - m()dern dance and ballet tecllnique on the begiruting and intermediate levels, im- provisation and composition, and the first jazz classes ever to be <Jffered in the practicum. The classes are scheduled for the afternoons and evenin.g~ of T11esday and Wednesday each Ms. Orlock says that while week and will begin ()n Wed• her training is primarily in nesday, September 10. Stlldents Hawkins and Cunningham interested in participating modern dance techniques · sllollld come to the Perf()rming (overlaid on a ballet foun- AI1s Studio in the Arts Building dation), her own movement ready to dance on the first day style is distinctly personal. In of classes. For furtlter in· reviewing a perfonnance of Ms. ftJnnation, contact the Arts Orlock's former company, Department, or see the Cleveland Dancers, Northern schedules posted artJund Ohio Live magazine said, \Vera .campus. Orlock has become, quite Ms. · Orlock, a 11ative simply, one of the most stunning Philadelphian, has performed dancers this tom1 has to offer.\ with Kelly Holt, Kathryn In teaching, Ms. Orlock em- ·Karipides, Albert Reid, and her . phasizes kineseological prin· own company, Cleveland ciples and challenges her Dancers. She is prese;ntly a students to imaginatively ex:· member of the Mimi Garrard plore and integrate these Dance Theater ill New York .principles for their own ex· ~!tr.: ........ Ms .. ______ .<?~!.c~~'!! .... J2.~~s~!Y..t? . .P~l'J?..~s~~· __ . II li ll

Pagt> 10 CONCORDIENS/S, September 18, 1986 THE ARTS Orientation To The Arts ByPENNIMORGANSTEIN The Music Department offers numenus opportunities for students of all different musical backgrGunds. This is achieved by a talented, diversified, en- thusiastic faculty. The department is chaired by Professor Hugh Al 1 len Wilson, the director of the Union College Choir. Meetings are held Mondays and Wednesdays from 7:00-8:30 p.m. Students will be required to audition and can expectto be placed according to their ability. Although students with experience are preferred, all are welcome to attend. The choir is scheduled to perform the Saturday of Homecoming. Future plans include a tour of Florida, scheduled for the end of winter term. The Union College Chamber Orchestra, under the direction of Professor Hilary Tann is seeking new membe1·s, :FaLL J)ance Sc edule Rfl_Balld ;I.mpnJvi~a .. tis especially violinists and violists. As of now, Prof. Tann is aiming for a concert the beginning of winter term. The group will be performing Beethoven's First Symphony, Mendelssohn's Fingals Over- ture, also known as the Hebrides as well as Haydn's Trumpet Concert in E flat. For those students who play woodwind and brass in- struments, there is the concert band. the band is conducted l>y Sean Lowery and it is best to contact him for more in- formation. As of now, meetings are scheduled for Tuesday evenings. If jazz is more your style, then be sure to contact Mark Slaga at 386-4480. Although definite times for the ensemble have n<>t been set, its continuation is assured. Private instrumental lessons are available as well. If in- terested be sure to contact Professor Tann. Lessons in classical and jazz piano, drums, percussion, guitar, violin, flute, cello, trumpet, and any other instruments are available upon request. Professor Ross is a new adft dition to the Music Department and is quite an exciting one. H~ is aR ethnomusician and is teaching a World Music Course. He is also teaching a course in the upcoming winter term. His expertise on the synthesizer in concordance with his extensive knowledge of African and Indian music and jazz guitar playing will all be combined this fall in a spectacular concert. In addition, he is also trying to assemble all t1utists for a Carillon piece in the Bell Tower. Vera Orlock, dancer and choreographer. Appointment Announced choreography has been acknowledged by grants from the Ohio Arts Council and the University of North Carolina at Charlotte; where she was a Visiting Assistant Professor for two years. She has also taught at Case Western reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio (where she received her B.S. in harp and music education and an MFA in dance-theater) and at Indiana University, Bloomington. ,:/[· Jif'. v a~Z~Z=----t---\\C_\__:_:;\' p4stt ton- Jnt Nodern The Arts Department an- nounced the appointment of Vera Orlock, dancer and choreographer from New York City, as a new teacher in the Dance Practicum. Ms. Orlock will teach all the dance classes · modern dance and ballet technique on the beginning and intermediate levels, im· provisation and composition, and the first jazz classes ever to be offered in the practicum. The classes are scheduled for the afternoons and evenings of Tuesday and VVednesday each week and will begin on Wed- nesday, September 10. Students interested in participating should come to the Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building ready to dance on the first day of classes. For further in- formation, contact the Arts Department, or see the schedules posted around campus. Ms. Orlock, a native Philadelphian, has performed with Kelly Holt, Kathryn Karipides, Albert Reid, and her . own company, Cleveland Dancers. She is presently a member of the Mimi Garrard Ms. Orlock says that while her training is primarily in Hawkins and Cunningham modern dance techniques (overlaid on a ballet foun- dation), her ovvn movement style is distinctly personal. In reviewing a per£ormance of Ms. Orlock's former company, Cleveland Dancers, Northern Ohio Live magazine said, \Vera Orlock has become, quite simply, one ofthemost stunning dancers this toWI1 has to offer.\ In teaching, Ms. Orlock em- phasizes kineseological prin- ciples and challenges her students to imaginatively ex- plore and integrate these principles for their own ex- ~ressive purposes. \7 ~o, '1 ~1~n~t~~~-------~ Dance Theater in New York City. Ms. Orlock's

CONCORD/ENSTS, September 18, 1986 Page 11 THE ARTS Gmelch Studies Irish Traveling People By NANCYGRUNDMAN ArtsEdit.,r Sharon Gmelch,. Associate Professor of Anthropology at Union . College recently published her third bO<* en.- titled, Nan, The Lite .-f au Irish Traveling Woman. It is the biography of Nan Donohoe, ane of Ireland's traveling .people, a cultural minority similar in many ways · to the Romany gypsies. Until· recently, they traveled the countryside in horseudrawn wagons making tinware, ~ddling h()usehold wares, and doing. a variety ·Of odd jobs for their survival. Nan is an at- tempt to look at culture through the li£e of a single individual. Professor Gmelch also believes that Nan's story has greater significance: \Everi though Nan was an Irish person not an American ... I think her .story is a universal one. It's the ~ory of how a person copes. With poverty and adversity--with hardship of many different kinds• .. and survives. It is a story of spirit and human dignity.\ Professor Gmelch £irst met with Nan while. she was doing her first research on traveling people in 1971. Nan lived next to Gmelch and became one of her best informants (informants is the word antbx:opologists use to refer to people Who become their cultural teachers). Gmelch lived in a barrel•top or horse-drawn wagon for con· ducting the research which thirteen months later, became her doctoral dissertation for her Nan Donohoe, the subject of Gmelch's biography .. at Old Chapel . . . Union's Opening Cabaret A Success By ILYSSE FEINGOLD -Jim - Havard, Melanie All four performers handled the extra enthusiasm during the program with great perofessionalism. ·Both Andy and Dave took time to establish a rapport with the hyper audience, who. were lucky enough to have the opportunity to view both Dave· and Andy's diverse instrumental flexibility. The two artists inspired the audience with both guitar and piano music. Their solo per- Mathason, Andy Lipman, and Dave Provost were the four performers for the 1986 orientation cabaret wMch opened at 9:00 p_.m .. on Sunday, September 7. Thts Cabaret seemed much more informal and relaxed than previous .Cabarets, which was evident by the audience's behavior. None were shy about entering or exiting the Old Chapel while the entertainment was in progress. . formances were equally as In my opinion, this had its disadvantages for the four artists. Personally, I felt that the environment was too loose. After speaking with a couple of Sunday night's performers, they conveY,ed a !eeling ?f dissatisfactiOn With their performances, and some at- tribu~e the freshmen's lack of attention as a l'{:action to their hectic schedule and anxiety connected to the second day at Union. effectiYe. . Not only are Melanie and Jim talented and -enjoyable to watch independently, they make ~n exuberant couple. Their duets are filled with a lot of harmony. They compliment each other's tonal quality, and are a joy to watch and listen, Hopefully, this performance, bY some of Cabaret's favorite artists, will motivate ambitious and brave freshmen to prepare for their chance at Cabaret. We hope to see some new faces soon, and look forward t<J all different talents. JOBS AVAILABLE WORK WITH THE ELITE! BECOME A Hale's Angel All shifts availa\!')le apply at Hale House Kitchen Office PhD. Later, in 1978, in- dependent of .her first research project, Gmelch returned to Ireland to research Nan's life story and began working on her biography. Gmelch's main research technique was participant observation. She lived in a community and was a par· ticipant in that community. ·.she spent her days doing many of the things the travelers did: collecting scrap metal, going on horse buying trips, and · par• ticipating · in camp life. Her research also involved· in~ terviewing, keeping careful field notes, and a lot of reading. She constantly ·contemplated the kinds of questions and in- formation she needed to research in order to understand Traveller culture. · Professor Gmelch enjoys talking to students about the travelling people and the in· sights she has gained through her work with them. Besides her work in Ireland, she has also conducted research in England and Alaska. Author· Professor Sharon Gmelch Arts Happenings Sept. 18 Off CampUs: Waiting for Godot, Si~na College thru Sept. 30. For information call 783- 2527. Sept.19 On Campus: film \A Soldier's Story\. SS016 -7, 911 p.m. all weekend. On Campus: Harm~ny Hammond Arts Building, Room 215, 2:00p.m. Sept. 21 Off Campus: Spanish Lute Orc:OOst:a at Proctor•s. Sept. 22 OffCampus: Book Revi-ew \The Bone People\ by Kerri Holmes at 12 p.m. at the , .. $.chen~c~y ~ublj.c Library. _ . Off Campus: Bi1ox.t Blues at Proctors thru Tues. Sept. U Off Campus: Comhaltas on Tour 1986 at Proctor's. . On Campus: UnionairsatMemorialChapel, 12-1 p.m. Sept. 26 Off Campus: Albany Symphony Orchestra at Troy Savings Bank Music Hall. For in- formation call 465-4663. · Sept. 28 Off Campus: BB King at The Palace Theatre in Albany, Sept 29 Off Campus: Billy Joel at Glen Falls Civic Center. Sept. 30 Off Campus: Jesus Christ Superstar at Pl\'octor thru Oct: 5. OtLCampus: The Emerson String Quartet at Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. .;0~. 2 .Off cantpus: David Lee Roth atGlen Falls Civic Center ~ . . ' ' . .- ·~\.\ \:; ', Jim Havard, one of the talented Cabaret performers. ,_ Q) !J :::> ,_ () D > ro 0 -

CONCORD/ENSIS, September 18, 1986 Page 11 THE ARTS Gmelch Studies Irish Traveling People By NANCY GRUNDMAN Arts Editor Sharon Gmelch, Asseciate Professor of Anthropology at Union . College recently published her third hook en- titled, Nan, The Life of an Irish Traveling Woman. It is the biography of Nan Donohoe, one of Ireland's traveling people, a cultural minority similar in many ways to the Romany gypsies. Until recently, they traveled the countryside in horse-drawn wagons making tinware, peddling household wares, and doing a variety of odd jobs for their survival. Nan is an at- tempt to look at culture through the life of a single individual. Professor Gmelch also l!>elieves that Nan's story has greater significance: \Even thaugh Nan was an Irish person not an American ... I think her story is a universal one. It's the story of how a person copes with poverty and adversity~-with hardship of many different kinds--and survives. It is a story of spirit and human dignity.\ Professor Gmelch first met with Nan while she was doing her first research on traveling people in 1971. Nan lived next to Gmelch and became one of her best informants (informants is the word anthr:.opologists use to refer to people who become their cultural teachers). Gmelch lived in a barrel-tep or horse-drawn wagon for con- ducting the research which thirteen months later, became her doctoral dissertation for her Nan Donohoe, the subject of Gmelch's biography. at Old Chapel . . . Union's Opening Cabaret A Success By ILYSSE FEINGOLD Jim Havard, Melanie Mathason, Andy Lipman, and Dave Provost were the four performers for the 1986 orientation cabaret wllich opened at 9:00p.m. on Sunday, September 7. This Cabaret seemed much more informal and relaxed than previous .Cabarets, which was evident by the audience's behavior. None were shy about entering or exiting the Old Chapel while the entertainment was in progress. In my opinion, this had its disadvantages for the four artists. Personally, I felt that the environment was too loose. After speaking with a couple of Sunday night's performers, they conveyed a feeling of dissatisfaction with their performances, and some at- tribute the freshmen's lack of attention as a rt:action to their hectic schedule and anxiety connected to the secend day at Union. All four performers handled the extra enthusiasm during the program with great perofessionalisrn. Both Andy and Dave took time to establish a rapport with the hyper audience, who were lucky enough to have the opportunity to view both Dave and Andy's diverse instrumental flexibility. The two artists inspired the audience with both guitar and piano music. Their solo per- formances were equally as effective. Not only are Melanie and Jim talented and enjoyable to watch independently, they make /iln exuberant couple. Their duets are filled with a lot of harmony. They compliment each other's tonal quality, and are a joy to watch and listen. Hopefully, this performance, by some of Cabaret's favorite artists, will motivate ambitious and brave freshmen to prepare for their chance at Cabaret. We hope to see some new faces soon, and look forward to all different talents. JOBS AVAILABLE WORK WITH THE ELITE! BECOME A Hale's Angel All shifts available apply at Hale House Ki;tchen Office PhD. Later, in 1978, in- dependent of her first research project, Gmelch returned to Ireland to research Nan's life story and began working on her biography. Gmeich's main research technique was participant observation. She lived in a community and was a par- ticipant in that community. She spent her days doing many of the things the travelers did: collecting scrap metal, going on horse buying trips, and par- ticipating iR camp life. Her research also involved in- terviewing, keeping careful field notes, and a lot of reading. She constantly contemplated the kinds of questions and in- formation she needed to research in order to Wlderstand Traveller culture. Professor Gmelch enjoys talking to students about the travelling people and the in- sights she has gained through her work with them. Besides her work in Ireland, she has also conducted research in England and Alaska. Author· Professor Sharon Gmelch Arts Happenings Sept.18 Off Campns: Waiting for Godot, Siena College thruSept. 30. For information call '783- 2527. . Sept.19 On Campus: film \ASoldier'sStory\,SS0~6: 7, 911 p.m. all weekend. On Campus: Harmony Harrunond Arts Bwlding, Room 215, 2:00p.m. Sept. 21 Off Campus: Spanish Lute Orchestra at Proctor's. Sept. 2% Off Campus: Book Review \The Bone People'' by Ketri Holmes at 12 p.m. at the S~henectadyPublic library. Off Campus: Biloxi Blues at Proct{)rs thru Tues. Sept. 24 Off Campus: Comhaltas on To.ur 1986 at Proctor's. On Campus: Unionairs at Memorial Chapel, 12-1 p.m. Sept. 26 Off Campus: Albany Symphony Orchestra at Troy Savings Bank Music Hall. For in- formation cal1465-4663. Sept. 28 Off Campus: BB King at The Palac~ Theatre in Albany. Sept.29 Off Campus: Billy JoelatGlenFallsCivic Center. Sept. $0 Off Campus: Jesus Christ Superstar at Proctor's thru Oct. 5. On Campus: The Emerson String Quartet at Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Oct. 2 Off campus: David Lee Roth atGlen Falls Civic Center $ Jim Havard, one of the talented Cabaret performers. . ' ' ' .. I- .l..l :;) I- 0 ~ > IQ 0 0 ..,.. \' ~ 1... :;) 0 u 0 +- 0 .c. 0. . . . ~ ·~ . . . . I • ' ' • ' '• . . . . ' .

,Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 18.1986 THE ARTS at Pro·ctor' s Theatre • • • Pippin, The Season Prem:iere By ILYSSE FEINGOLD Since its erection, Proctor's has existed as one of Schenectady's proudest land- marks. On Wednesday, Sep- tember 10, it really shined as \Pippin\ :1shered in Proctor's 6oth Putniversary season. This performance is a revival of Broadway's 1972 show. \Pippin's\ original production, Which ran for four years and won five Tony awards, was directed and choreographed by Bob Fosse. Proctor's new rendition of \Pippin\ is by Tom Mallow and James Janeck and stars Ben Vereen who repeats his role as the leading player. Ben Vereen's talent does not halt with his brilliant per· forrnance in \Pippin\ but in· stead he spread his wealth with the \Pippin\ cast; Mr. Vereen directed and successfully led the troupe to Wednesday's standing ovation. The opening number, \Magic To Do\ ilnmediately displayed the interesting ·costwnes. The cast exuded abounding .energy and enthusiasm, and superb syncronization in both their vocal and dance numbers. Their internal involvement and commitment to 'Pippin's' story was evident throughout. Each movement seemed to have energy. The dancers' bodies gracefully moved; they made a routine appear easy. This first number in the show established the performers as true musicians, dancers and actors. from the beginning, \Pippin\ became the epitome of musical theater. these per~ formers were gifted in each aspect of this complex type of theater. Pippin, Sam Scalamoni, title/event . Biloxi Blues restival of India J.C. Superstar Preservation Hall Paul Taylor Dance Stop the World Lillian Ballet de France Can Can Mummenschanz Of Mice and Men Madame BUtterfly cats performed \Corner Of the Sky\ one of \Pippin's\ most well-known songs, to the audience's satisfaction .. It was evident from his dynamic body gestures that he deeply ex~ perienced the song. Singing this song gave Sam Scalamoni the initial responsibility of in~ traducing \Pippin's\ guest. This important song which was bePutifully su.11g, clenched the audience's attention. \Pippin's\ father, Ed Dixon, \\as also an exciting performer. His solo numbers, ''Welcome Home\ and \War Is a Science\ gave Mr. Dixon the opportunity to display his resonant and well projected voice. He has a good sense for the dynamics. His climactic notes are completely distinguishable from the others. Another exciting perfom1er was Betty Ann Grove, who played Berthe. This character role of grandmother was ex- ceedingly well done. From the moment she appeared the audience developed a love for Mrs. Grove. Since her song \No Time At All\ involved audience participation, she had an added responsibility of inspiring the audience to participate. The audience was thrilled to con- tribute to Grandma's number. Betty Ann Groves diction was impeccable. This song did not really give her the chance to display her range or the tonal quality of her voice; however, this song did allow th~ audience to identify with the grand- mother as a recounter and a lecturer. The special artists per- forming these exciting numbers deserved recognition, but could not have excelled without the direction of Ben Vereen. Mr. date time or.lginal Erice 9/22 8 PM $22.00 9/26 8 PM $12.00 9/30 a P~1 $20.00 11/7 8 PM $14.00 11/6 8 PM $16.00 11/15 8 PH $22.00 11/18 8 PM $16.00 l/15 8 PH $16.00 1/27 8 PM $18.00 2/3 8 PH $14.00 2/17 8 PH $18.00 3/14 8 PM $20.00 4/7 8 PM $27.00 5/15 8 PH $22.00 ,_ 0.) ~ R) I))· .c 1- If) ,_ 0 - lJ 0 '- ll. ..... 0 >- If) II> .... '- :::> 0 lJ 0 ... 0 .c 0. (L to Rl sam Scalamon! is the happy Pippin in the hit musical PIPPIN which stars Ben Vereen. Ben Vereen is recreatinp his Tony Award winning performance in PIPPIN, which ran f<;lr over 4 years on Broadway and won 5 Tony Awards. Roger Hirson wrote the Book, Stephan Schwartz the Music and Lyrics, while Kathryn Doby is the Choreographer and Ben Vereen the Director. Vereen had an endless energy supply which became con- tagious among· the audience's member.s. Ben Vereen gave the audience an extra special surprise. He explained to the audience that ''trns show does not allow me to do my stuff\ and proceeded t() do two solo student faculty Erice Erice $5.50 $11.00 $3.00 $ 6.00 $5.00 $10.00 $3.50 $ 7.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $5.50 $11.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $4.50 $ 9.00 • $3.50 $ 7.00 $4.50 $ 9.00 $5.00 $10.00 $13.50 $27.00 $5.50 $1l,OQ numbers after ''Pippin's\ conclusion. These numbers enthralled the audience. Ben Vereen was reaping the attention of a rock star. As he pranced through the rows in the theater and balcony, the audience members reached' to touch him. Ben Vereen displayed his ' sensational talent; a superstar had come alive! also at Proctor's . . . Protests Jewish students from SUNY Albany will attend per- formances of the Soviet Union's Moiseyev Dance Company at Proctor's Theater. They have intentions of ~rotesting what they feel to be .crilninal treat- ment of Russian Jews. The protest will include mock Soviet \prisoners of conscience\ as well as literature to explain the group's action. It is understo()d that these students will protest the treatment of Soviet Jews who say they want to leave Russia and settle in Israel. The reason the dancers are silent is because there is nothing they . can do, but the students feel that they can do S()methihg to help and are taking advantage of the opportunity. La Cage aux Folles -------------------------------------------J Courtesy, MRS. L. MARRA A grant from the Student Forum makes it possible for the Office of Student Activities in conjunction with Proctor's Theater to offer students a sensational series of events at incredibly low prices. All un- dergraduate Union College students are invited to take advantage of this unique op- portunity. How to purchase tickets: Tickets will be available to UC students· 10 days prior to a performance at the information booth on first floor of Old Chap_el. -A student I.D. must be shown . when . purchasing tickets. No . ·tick.et''' i'eseFvations will be accepted over the telephone. (Tickets will be held at the desk for 24 hours only.) There are no refunds for tickets that are sold unless the performance at Proctor's is cancelled. Cash or personal checks are acceptable forms of payment; Mrs. Marra gets Union students discount rate at Proctor's. See schedule and article for details. personal checks should be made payable to Union College and usE:d with college I.D. Ticket Information: With the exception of Pippin and Cats, there are only 20 tickets available per performance. Plan to get your tickets early. In most cases, top price tickets have been purchased, so that seating should be good. Feel free to use the Proctor's Theater seating diagram,· available at the information booth, when selecting your tickets. Unsold tickets clause: Tickets that remain unsold 48 hours prior to performance time will be available for purchase by any Union College employee. The price of the tickets will be equal to the Colleg~ purchase price. Special thanks to Mrs. ~arrajorc~ordinating this event HJith Proc- tor's Theatre~ ' l ll l ! II !! I! I· l

.Pat!e 12 CONCORDIENSTS, September 18, 1986 THE ARTS at Proctor's Theatre • • • Pippin, The Season Premiere By lL YSSE FEINGOLD Since its erection, ProC't()r's has existed as one of Schenectady's proudest land- marks. On Wednesday, Sep- tember 10. it really shine<i as \Pippin\ ·Jshereu in Proctor's 60th Anniversary season. This performan<.:e is a revival of Broadway's 1972 show. \Pippin's\ original produc-tion, which ran for four years and won five Tony awards, was direeted and choreographe<i by Bob Fosse. Proctor's new rendition of \Pippin\ is b_y Tom :viallow and James Janeck and 'itars Ben Vereen who repeats his role as the leading player. Ben Vereen's talent does not halt with his brilliant per- formance in \Pippin\ but in- stead he spread his wealth with the \Pippin\ cast; Mr. Vereen directed and successfully led the troupe to Wednesday's standing ovation. The opening number, ''Magic To Do\ immediately displ<J.yed the interesting costumes. The cast exuded aboW1ding energy and enthusiasm, and su.perb syncronization in both their vocal and dance numbers. Their internal involvement and commitment to 'Pippin's' story was evident throughout. Each movement seemed to have energy. The dancers' bodies gracefully moved; they made a routine appear easy. This first number in the show established the performers as true musicians, dancers and actors. From the beginning, \Pippin\ became the epitome of musical theater. these per- formers were gifted in tlach aspect of this complex type of theater. Pippin, Sam Scalamoni, ti tie/event . lc'Iloxi Blues ~egtival of India .J.r. Superstar Preservation Hal! raul Taylor Dance ~t0p the World L1llian Ballet de France Can Can Mummenschanz 0[ Mice and Hen Madame BUtterfly <ats performPd \Corner Of the Sky\ one of \Pippin's\ most well-known songs, to the audience's satisfaction. It was evident from his dynamic b'Ody gestures that he deeply ex- perienced the song. S~nging this song gave Sam Scalamoni the initial responsibility o:f in- troducing \Pippin's\ guest. This important song which vvas be(tutifully sung, clenched the audience's attention. \Pippin's\ father, Ed Dixon, v. as also an exdting perfonner. His solo numbers, \Welcome Home\ and \War Is a Sciell!.ce\ gave Mr. Dixon the opportunity to display his resonant and vvell projected voice. He has a ~ood sense for the dynamics. His climactic notes are completely distinguishable from the otho€rs. Another exciting perf(i)rrner was Betty Ann Grove, v.rho played Berthe. This chan11cter role of grandmother was ex- ceedingly well done. Froill the moment she appeared the audience developed a love for Mrs. Grove. Since her song ~·No Time At All\ involved audience participation, she had an atided responsibility of inspiring the audience to participate. 1'he audience was thrilled to con- tribute to Grandma's nun11ler. Betty Ann Groves diction was impeccable. This song did not really give her the chance to display her range or the tonal quality of her voice; however, this song did allow the audience to identify with the grand- mother as a recounter and a lecturer. The special artists per- forming these exciting numbers deserved recognition, but C()uld not have excelled withollt the direction of Ben Vereen. Mr. date time odoginal Erice 9/22 8 PM $2 2 • 00 9/26 8 PM $12-00 9/30 8 PM $20.00 1117 B PM $14 .oo 11/6 8 PM $16 .00 11115 8 PM $22 .0() 11118 8 PH $16 .0() 1/15 8 PM $16 .oo 1/27 8 PM $1.8 . 00 2/3 8 PM $1.4 • 00 l/17 8 PM $1.0 • 00 3/14 8 PM $20 .()0 4/7 8 PM $27 • 00 5/15 8 PM $22 • 00 .... (J) - <0 (J) J:: 1- .1/) .... 0 +- u 0 .... 0.. .... 0 >- 1/) (J) .... .... :l 0 u 0 .... 0 J:: 0.. (L toR) Sam Scalamoni is the happy Pippin in the hit musical PIPPiN which stars Ben Vereen. Ben Vereen is recreatinp his Tony Award winning performance in PIPPIN, which ran for over 4 years on Broadway and won 5 Tony Awards. Roger Hirson wrote the Book, Stephan Schwartz the Music and Lyrics, while Kathryn Doby is the Choreographer and Ben Vereen the Director. Vereen had an endless energy supply which became con- tagious among the audience's members. Ben Vereen gave the audience an extra special surprise. He explained to the audience that \this show does not allow me to do my stuff\ and proceeded to do two solo student feculty [!rice [!rice $5.50 $11.00 $3.00 $ 6.00 $5.00 $10 .oo $3.50 s 7.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $5.50 $11.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $4.00 $ 8.00 $4.50 $ 9.00 $3.50 $ 7.00 $4.50 $ 9.00 $5.00 SlO.OO $13.50 $27.00 $5.50 $11. fll) numbers after \Pippin's\ conclusion. These numbers enthralled the audience. Ben Vereen was reaping the attention of a rock star. As he pranced through the rows in the also at Proctor's theater and balcony, the audience members reached to touch him. Ben Vereen displayed his sensational talent; a superstar had come alive! Protests Jewish students from SUNY Albany will attend per- formances of the Soviet Union's Moiseyev Dance Company at Proctor's Theater. They have intentions of protesting what they feel to be criminal treat· ment of Russian Jews. The protest will include mock Soviet \prisoners of conscience\ as well as literature to explain the group's action. It is understood that these students will protest the treatment of Soviet Jews who say they want to leave Russia and settle in Israel. The reason the dancers are silent is because there is nothing they can do, but the students feel that they can do something t{) help and are taking advantage of the opportunity. Ia Cage aux Folies ------------------------------------------------~ WRUC Courtesy, MRS. L. MARRA A grant from the Student Forum makes it possible for the Office of Student Activitioes in conjunction with Proctor's Theater to offer stude11ts a sensational series of evelltS at incredibly low prices. All un- dergraduate Union College students are invited to take advantage of this unique op- portunity. How to purchase ti~kets: Tickets will be available to UC students · 10 days prior to a performance at the information booth on first floor of Old Chapel. A student I.D. must be sluown when purchasing tickets. No ticket reservations wilL be accepted over the telepllone. (Tickets will be held at the desk for 24 hours only.) There are no refunds for tickets that are sold unless the performance at Proctor's is cancelled. Cash or personal checks are acceptable forms of payment; Mrs. Marra gets Union students discount rate at Proctor's. See schedule and article for details. personal checks should be made payable to Union College and used with college J.D. Ticket Information: With the exception of Pippin and Cats, there are only 20 tickets available per performance. Plan to get your tickets early. In most cases, top price tickets have been purchased, so that seating should be good. Feel free to use the Proctor's Theater seating diagram, available at the information booth, when selecting your tickets. Unsold tickets clause: Tickets that remain unsold 46 hours prior to performance time will be available for purchase by any Union College employee. The price of the tickets will be equal to the College purchase price. Speciaf thanks to Mrs. Marra for cvordinating this eve11t with Proc- tor~\' Theatre. 89.7 fn1 STEREO SCHENECTADY \'THE FIRST STATION IN T'HE NATION\\ THE NEW 8.97 In an effort to discourage ANY association between the WRUC Top 8.97 and Top 40 radio/ we've pe,rmanently renamed this colum the NEW 8.97. It can be heard Wednesday nights 8-10. No. Group Album 1. R.E.M. Ufels Rich Pageant 2. Smiths The Queen is Dead 3. Smithereens Especially For You 4. Seat Rodeo Home At The Heart 5. UB40 Rat in the Kitchen 6. Guadat Canal Diary Jamboree 7, Timbuk 3 Wekome toTimbuk 3 8. Doctor & The Medics Laughing atthe Pieces 8.971cicle Works Understanding Jane The NEW 8.97 is for this past summer. WRUC is on an abbreviated schedule from 8 p.m. to 2 a.m. untll further notice.

/ CONf!OR:IJ.IENSIS. September 18, 1986 Page 13 Art Briefs Special Guest Harmony Hammond Harmony Hammond, painter, sculptor and critic, wi11 be visiting Union . on Friday, September 19. Hammond, a leader in the feminist art movement, has exhibited in· ternationally in major galleries and museums~ She is a recipient of two NEA and NYS CAPS grants and is co-founder· of A.I.R. women's cooperative gallery and of Heresies art collective. She will present a slide lecture ex:aminlng the work of two major feminist artists, entitled \Cycles: A Close Look at the Work of May Stevens. and Joan Snyder,\ at 2 P.M. in the Arts Building 215. The lecture is free and the public is cordially invited to attend. For more information on non- credit courses at the Kingston Extension of Union College, call (914)338~7747. BM/ Sponsors Competition BlVU will again sponsor the BMI University Musical Show Competition Awards. These awards will be given to the undergraduate compose'r, lyricist, and librettist of the best musical show or revue presented during the 1986--87 academic year as a recognized student activity of a college or university in the United States · or Canada. Awards of $2,500 each will be given to the composer of the best musical, author of the best lyrics and t)le organization or club which sponsored the winning show. In the event of multiple composers the monies will be split among them THE ARTS Continuing Studies at union Schenectady, N.Y.~tarting this f<ill, adults living in and around Kingston, New York will be able to take non-credit courses through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies of Union College. The courses are designed to foster professional as well as personal development. In addition, several autumn trips' are planned to cult\ural centers of the Northeast. . respectively. Althoqgh ·· the llbretto of a musical will not be . judged, an additional prize ·of $1,000 will be presented to the librett~st of the winning slaow. The Competition will be . judged by a panel of musical theatre professionals. Competition closes June 15, 1987. Marvel Comics Celebrate 25th Anniversary Learning about the major trends in .American Figurative Art from the 1930's to the present time is the topic of a course taught by Catherine Egenberger ·Of the Blum Institute of Bard College, that begins Oct. 9. Eight trips are planned from September 27-November 7 that will take participants on guided excursions of: some of the cultural centers of Philadelphia; tlie Hudson River aboard the Dutch Apple; Boscobel, the Classical mansion in the lower Hudson Valley; the quilt collection of the Shelburne Museum of Vermont; the Cloisters, and other settings. Emerson String Quartet Rel11rns An Ensemble of great talent and popularity returns to Union College to open the well known Schenectady Museum-Union College Concert Series on Wednesday, October 1 at 8 p.m. The Em~rson String Quartet is . young; fresh and highly regarded for its interpretation of romantic,. classical and contemporary works. Joining the Ensemble at Memorial Chapel on. the Union College Campus will be pianist WuHan, for the Brahms Piano Quintet in F Minor. Sub- scriptions to the series are available or individual tickets can be purchased at any of the · ticket outlets in the Capital District, or at the door. ·For further information, call (518)382-7890 or 3'12-3651. NEW YORK-A quarter century after Marvel mastermind Stan Lee converted conventional comic book content into compelling en- tertainment with a cast of complex,. colorful characters including classics such as Fantastic Four, The. Amazing Sp1der-Man and The Incredible Hulk, the Marvel Comics Group is celebrating its silver an- .. niversary by staging a second revolution: The New Universe. Rooted in science and technology, like the best science fiction, The New Universe brings the medium to a new .level of sophistication by of- fering the most credible stories ever presented in the comics medium with characters who exist in the rear world, age in actual time, and affect the lives FILM: \A Soldier's Story'' 9/19-9/21 L 'etoile. Welcomes· Freshman & Returning Students SEBASTIAN· INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton S.t. 382-7956- Student Discounts ' of others. The first eight titles under The New Universe banner-' 'Star Br.and,\ \Spitfire and the Troubleshooters,\ \Psi-For- ce,\ \Nightmask ''Kickers, Inc.,\ \Mere \D.P.7 and \Justice\-arrive ori newsstands, in comic book specialty shops, and in select bookstores this summer as Marvel turns twenty-five. The eight interrelated titles in The New Universe, each of which has thirty-two pages and a cover price of $.75, have been created by many of the top talents in contempcrary illustrated fiction. Leadi!lg: the roster is Archie Goodwin, editorial director of Marvel's Epic Comics line and twice cited as best writer by the Academy of Comic Book Arts, FILM: ''Lady Hawke' 1 9/26-9/28 who created \Psi-Force \Nightmask \Mere and \Justice.\ Other writers and artists include Eliot Brown, Sal Buscema, Peter David, Tom DeFalco, Ron Frenz, Mark Gruenwald, Rick Leonardi, John Moreilli, Gray Morrow, Steve Perry, John Romita, Jr., Paul Ryan; Tony Salmons, Jim Shooter, Walt Simonson, Mark 'rexiera, Herb Trimpe, and AI Williamson. The Marvel Comics Group, which celebrates its twenty- fifth anniversary as the nation's premier comic book publisher, is a diversified communications concern also engaged in juvenile book publishing, . domestic and foreign mer- chandise licensing, and television-feature film production. All Reviews of op.and off campus events are welcome Help Wanted: Short order cook to work breakfast shift in the Rathskellar. 7-10:30 ~.m. M-Fri. Stop in if you are interested. o(l,

CONCORDIENS!S, September 18, 1986 Page 13 Art Briefs Special Guest Harmony Hammond Harmony Ha!llll1ond, painter, sculptor and critic, will be visiting Union on Frida:y, September 19. Hammond, a leader in the feminist art movement, has exhibited in- ternationally in major galleries and musel:lffi.s. Slle is a recipient of two NEA and NYS CAPS grants and is co-founder of A.I.R. women's cooperative gallery and of Heresies art collective. She will present a slide lecture examining the work of two major feminist artists, entitled \Cycles: A Close Look at the Work of May Stevens anri Joan Snyder, •· at 2 P.M. in the A1ts Building 215. The lecture is free and the public is cordially invited to attend. For more infarmation on non- credit courses at the Kingston Extension of Union College, call (914)338-7747' BMI Sponsorj Competition BMI will aga·in sponsor the BMI University Musical Show Competition Awards. These awards will be given to the undergraduate composer, lyricist, and librettist of the best musical show or revue presented daring the 1986-87 academic year as a recognized student activity of a college or university in the United States or Canada. THE ARTS Continuing Studies at union Schenectady, N.Y.-starting this fall, adults living in and around Kingston, New York will be able to take non-credit courses through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies of Union College. The courses are designed to foster professional as well as pers()nal development. In addition, several autumn trips are planned to cultural centers of the Northeast. Awards of $2,500 each will be given to the composer of the best musical, author of the best lyrics and the organization or club which sponsored the winning show. In the event of multiple composers the monies will be split among them respectively. Although the libretto of a musical will not be judged, an additional prize of $1,000 will be presented to the librettist of the winning show. The Competition will be judged by a panel of musical theatre professionals. Competition closes June 15, 1987. Marvel Comics Celebrate 25th Anniversary Learning about the major trends in American Figurative Art from the 1930's to the present time is the topic of a course taught by Cathel\ine Egenberger of the Blum Institute of Bard College, t:hat begins Oct. 9. Eight trips are planned from September 27-November 7 t:hat will take participants on guided excursions of: some of the cultural centers of Philadelphia; the Hudson River aboard the Dutch Apple; Boscobel, the Classical mansi()n in the lower Hudson Valley; the quilt collection of the Shelburne Museum of Vermont; the Cloisters, and other settings. Emerson String Quartet Rei urns An Ensemble of great talent and popularity returns to Union College to open the well known Schenectady Musewn-Union College Concert Series on Wednesday, October 1 at 8 p.m. The Emerson String Quartet is young, fresh and highly regarded for its interpretation of romantic, classical and contemporary works. Joining the Ensemble at Memorial Chapel on. the Union College Campus will be pianist Wu Han, for the Brahms Piano Quintet in F Minor. Sub- scriptions to the series are available or individual tickets can be purchased at any of the ticket outlets in the Capital District, or at the door. For further information, call (518)382-7890 or 372-3651. NEW YORK-A quarter century after Marvel mastermind Stan Lee converted conventional comic lilook content into compelling en- tertainment with a cast of complex, colorful characters including classics such as Fantastic F(Jur, The Amazing Spider·-Man and The Incredible Hulk, the Marvel Comics Group is celebrati.IJg its silver an- niversary by staging a second revolution: The New Universe. Rooted in science and technology, lik:e the best science fiction, The New Universe brings the medium to a new level of sophistication by of- fering the most credible stories ever presented in the comics mediwn with characters who exist in the real world, age in actual time, and affect the lives FILM: ''A Soldier's Story'' 9/19- 9/21 L 'etoile Welcomes Freshman & Returning Students SEBASTIAN INTRODUCES THE CUTS THAT MAKE IT HAPPEN. Located on corner of Broadway & Hamilton St. 382-7956- Student Discount§ of others. The first eight titles under The New Universe banner-''Star Brand,\ \Spitfire and the Troubleshooters,\ \Psi-For- ce,\ \Nightmask \Kickers Inc.,\ \Mere \D.P.7 and \Justice\-arrive on newsstands, in comic book specialty shops, and in select bookstores this summer as Marvel turns twenty-five. The eight interrelated titles in The New Universe, each of which has thirty-two pages and a cover price of $.75, have been created by many of the top talents in contemporary illustrated fiction. Leading the roster is Archie Goodwin, editorial director of Marvel's Epic Comics line and twice cited as best writer by the Academy of Cornie Book Arts, FILM: ''Lady Hawke'' 9/26-9/28 L I who created \Psi-Force ''Nightmask,\ \Mere and \Justice.\ Other writers and artists include Eliot Brown, Sal Euscema, Peter David, Tom DeFalco, Ron Frenz, Mart~ Cruenwald, Rick Leonardi, John Moreilli, Gray Morrow, Steve Perry, John Romita, Jr., Paul Ryan, 'fony Salmons, Jim Shooter, Walt Simonson, Mark Texiera, Herb Trimpe, and ~I Williamson. The Marvel Comics Group, vvhich celebrates its twenty- fifth anniversary as the nation's premier comic book publisher, is a diversified communications concern also eng:1ged in juvenile book publishing, d()mestic and foreign mer- chandise licensing, and television-feature film production. All Reviews of on and off campus events are welcome Help Wanted: Short order cook to work br€akfast shift in the Rathskellar. 7-10:30 a.m. M-Fri. Stop in if you are interested. - \

i I Page .~4 SCHOLARSHIPS & FELLOWSHIPS Coro Foundation offers fellowsblps in public affairs. The Coro Foundation is looking for men and women with a demon:::trated leadership capability and dedication to public affairs. Each year Coro awards post-graduate fellowships for the study of the interrelationships between the public and private sectors. Fel- lowships are assigned to one of four centers: San Francisco, St. Louis, Los Angeles or New York C1ty for the nine-month, in- ternship · oriented program which leads toward a master's degree in Public Policy Analysis. Since 1942, the Coto Foun- dation has · been offering a unique, experimental approach to the study of public affairs. The combination of internship assignments and weekly seminars challenge the Fellows to sharpen their communication skills, develop their leadership potential and study the network of power that influences policy in business, labor, government, politics and community service. Vic Fazio, a 1965 graduate of Union College · and Congressman from California, is an alumnus of the Coro Fellowship. Less Ross '86 is a Coro Fellow in Los Angeles. A representative of the Coro Foundation :will be on campus Oct()ber 9 to interview for the 1986-87 Fellowship year. Fur· . ther information will be provided at the Career Festival. Interested students may sign up for interviews through the on- campus recruiting system at the CDC. Deadline: September 23. 1987 Equal Opportunities Publications Scholarship Program is opened to those appliclllltS enrolled in a full· time program of study leadir.g to a Bachelor's Degree iri any engineering discipline, in- cluding computer science and systems at an accredited four- year college or university. Deadline is February 15, 1987. Laredo State University of- fers fellowship grants in International Trade. Qualified students act as a research assistant for International Trade related projects of the Institution. Deadline is October 31, 1986. The Smithsonian Institution offers fellowships and .grants for _minorities, graduate, predoctoral and postdoctoral students. It also offers grants for short-term research con- ducted at the Smithsonian. Deadlines are February 15, 1987 for Summer Internship; July 1, 1987 for Fall Internships and October 15, 1987 for Spring Internships. The Metropolitan Museum of Art Theodore Rousseau Fellowships are awarded for the training of students whose goal is to enter museums as curators of painting by enabling them to undertake related study in Europe. Applicarts should be enrolled in an advanced degree program in the field of art history. Deadline is November 21, 1986. Health Professions Scholarships AvaOable. More than 170 scholarships are available to students enrolled in or accepted for enrollment in an approved school of medicine or osteopathy. CONCORDIENSIS, Septe1nber 18, 1986 The .program pays full tuition for up to four years, plus the cost of books, fees, and laborat()ry expenses, plus more than $ri00 per month for living expenses. There is a one-year U.S. Air Force service obligation for each year a student is in the program. For more information calll-8()()-USA-USAF. INTER SHIPS Information on these and other in.temships is on file in the Internship notebooks in the CDC . Ubrary. The (X)oper-Hewitt Museum has twelve volunteer in- ternships available for the Summer of 1987. There are lo- week internships in . all departments. Activities include exhibition research and production, program ad- ministration and planning, collection management, fund· raising research and library management. Deadline is March 31, 1987. The National Wildlife Federation offers an internship progFam for college graduate students with a special interest in environmental issues to work in Washington, D.C. in its Resource Conservation Depa:rtment. Responsibilities incl11de researching en- vironmental policy issues and covering Congressional ac- tivity. Deadline for July 1987 is April tO~ 1987. CilJma-Japan services (CJS) and The National Internship Seareh (NIS) provide students and graduates wit-h current information on: living arrangements; visas; American firms doing business in the Orient, etc. NIS main- tains a computerized database of more than 15,000 internships and summer jobs. CIVITEX, America's Premier Community-oriented information and networking computer database service, is seeking part-time and full-time student interns to assist with its development and operation. Responsibilities will range from the development of information for the database, to the prod11ction of a monthly new~letter. Paw :Barry & Asso~iates have a P<JSition open in their ad- vertising agency. Student would be invCJlved with art work, copywriting and account work. im interview is required. Tile Schenectady Museum offers a good experience for future science teachers or anY()ne who is interested in muse1.1m work. Responsible for mvseliill'S visitors to help in interpretation of exhibits. H()llrs on Saturdays and SWl- days only. SlJNY Irish Intersession. From December 27, 1986, tbro11gh January 8, 1987, State University of New York at One()nta will sponsor the eleventh Irish Studies Inter- session in Dublin, Kerry, Clare, and Galway, Ireland. This year's courses will be Irish FolklCJre (2-3 s.h.) and Irish Textiles (2-3 s.h.). Both are SUNY approved. Both are approved for U.S. Government Loans. Cost of the 1986-1987 program for SUNY students is $895, which includes round-trip · airfare, ground transport, breakfast, accommodations; theater tickets, and au program-related fees. Non- SUNY students pay applicable tuition. , Applications and program infonnation are available from Dan Casey, English Depart• merit, SUNY, Oneonta, NY, 13820, (607-432-7088). Applications will be accepted through. October 10. Infor- mation listed with Overseas Study coordinator on your campus. EDUCATION Understanding the diversity or religious beliefs held by people around the world is the focus of a series ()f courses offered this fall by the Union College Office of Graduate and . Continuing Studies. Tile newly instituted · program of Com- . parative Religious Studies continues a .tradj.tion started by The Academy of Religious Studies, of First Reformed Church of Schenectady. Individuals can choose from \Politics and Religion,\ \Religion and the Crisis of Modernity\ and \The Challenge of Atheism.~' Courses may be taken separately or individuals can enroll in the certificate program in Comparative Religious Studies. Classes are held on weekday evenings and begin September 17. For flllther information, contact Dean Arnold Gussin, Office of Graduate and Co11tinuing Studies at Union, at { 518) 370- . 6288. CAMPUS NEWS Financial Careers Field Trip. On Friday, September 26, the Career Development Center is sponsoring a trip for students to . the Wall Street area to learn about a wide variety of financial careers from alumni who are in the field. There will be panelists speaking on commercial banking, the Federal Reserve Bank, corporate financial management and investment banking. Students will also hear from graduates ab()ut suc- cessful job search te(!hniques. The bus leaves the CDC parking lot at 7 a.m. and will return around 10 p.m. Sign up now at ~he CDC. Reserve your place \With the •10 registration fee. Deadline for sfgnups: Friday, September 19 at 5 p.m. Seniors will )Je given preference (but probably will not fill up the bus). Foreign Serviee Economics Officer. On Monday, September 22 at 7 p.m. in SS 1().1, Thomas Martin will speak on ·Op- portunities to be an economic specialist ln tbe Foreign Ser- vice. Mr. Martin is presently responsible for issues such as falling oil prices and the ac- tivities of OPEC. His previous assignments included serving as economic officer in Beijing, China, and as commodity agreement negotiator in Washington, D.C. For individuals interested in entering the field of financial planning, the Union College Office of Graduate and Con- tinuing Studies has designed a program that will nelp par- ticipants prepare for the qualifying examinations given by the College for ·Financial Planning in Denver, Colorado, leading to a nationally respected certificate in the financial planning field. An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Robert Olberg, Assistant Professor of Biology. Persons wishing to contribute oral or written testimony concerning Prof. Olberg's teaching, scholarship, and-or college service should contact Prof. James Kenney, Dept. of Economics, Social Sciences 211A (ext. 6081). Other mem- bers of the committee are , Profs. Henry Butzel (Biology), Christopher Jones (Physics), and George Williams (EE-CS). CONTESTS National College Poetry Contest offering $200 in cash and book pri~es and free printing for all accepted poems in the ACP Anthology. For m()re info write to International Publications, P.O. Box 44044-L, Los Angeles, CA 90044. National College Marketing tompany seeks aggressive individuid to work 1· 2 days/week on campus. Ex- cellent income potential. Calll- 800-932-0528. Essay Contest. Honeywell will launch its fifth annual FuturiSt ~wards ·Competition, .an. essay contest that :asks students to predict technology advancements 25 years from now. · lloneyweU wants college students to imagine the year .2()11 and write essays about the iechnological developments they foresee. This year's con- test will offer 10 winners $3,000 · eaeh and the chance to work for Honeywell next suffimer. Students can receive contest rules by writing Futurist Rules, · Honeywell Telemarketing C-enter, Honeywell Plaza MN12- 4'164, Minneapolis, MN 55408, or cBUing toll free 1-4100-328-5111, ext.. 1581. Requests for entry material must be received by Dec. 31, 1986. CLASSIFlEDS PERSONALS Dina & Cory, And now the moment you've· been waiting for ... -Your future sisters of Delta Delta Delta Amy, Andrea, Atraci, Look what you've done tQ me in 1 short week! But just watch_ what I'm going to do to you in the next 29. To everyone we know, Grusse aus Deutschland! Best of luck this year at Union, We will miss you. · Love, Nick, Jay, Colleen t Friday 8t Saturday Sept. 19& 20 Slip Kn-ot

CQNCORDJ:ENSIS, 18, 1986 Page 15 . . Athlete of t·he Week By DOUGLAS .LLQ¥D Last Saturday in a tough fight the Union College fdOtball squad defeated Hobart in a game in which 'Dan Klinger and the rest of the defem~e played tremendously. Dan's fine play at linebacker for the Ou.tclunen make him this weekjs 1 'Athlete of the Week.'' · Dan, only a S()!)bomore, out of Springfield, N.J., had eight solo tackles, assiste.d on another, and broke up a pass at a key :point in the game to lead the defense ill shutting down the potentially dangerous Hobart offense. Dan has emerged as one of Union~s top linebackers after spending his freshman year as a standout on the special team?s squad. Dan l(llnger Dan, No. 53, was all over the field in Saturday's 7-6 victory and displayed the knowledge, the size (6 ft. 3 inches - 210 lbs.) and strength necessary to fill the holes and make the tackles. Dan's athletic ability can also be found on the diamond as· he batted a .351 avg., 4 hr., 22 r.b.i. in 14 games at first base for the upstate New York Division III .Champion Union Baseball team. In high school Dan earned All- State Group III, aU-Metro, and all-county. status in football for Jonathan Dayton Regional. Dan is currently majoring in economics and is a brother of Delta Upsi:lon. Once again, congratulations to Dan Klinger for his outstanding defensive display. Crew Excited About Upcoming Season . .By TED EVELETH The crew team remained active over the summer because a largE nwnber of the men '.s crew remained in Schenectady. While the class of 1986 was graduating in Scllenectady the crew was in Albany at the Empire State Regatta, a two. day event. The crew was en- tered in the open eight and intermediate · eight which consisted of Ted Eveleth, at bow, John Lovisolo, Rich Chandler, Mark Burton, Greg Clark, Dave Jones, John Wyatt, Dave Sveden at stroke; and Joe Murphy as tile .coxswain. The bow four were- also entered in the intermediate four, and the stern four were entered as an open four. The crew qualified for the- finals in b()th divisions on the eight and the intermediate four on Saturday. . John Ciovacco, the head coach, rowed his single as a novi(!e and won second place, on Sunday. He ;md John Wyatt then rowed as an intermediate double scull. The women's crew rowed a four as well composed of Lisa Clark, Georgia Sullivan, Colleen Quinn,· and Anne Maubousin. A Union four then took first place in the four division as well as overall in the Toepath Regatta in Schenectady, and John Giovacco turned ill an impressive first place in the singles division. . The crew also traveled to the Derby Day Regatta in Derl:ly, Connecticut -where they -took second place in both the open eight and open four, as well as first place in the double scull being rowed by John Ciovacco and John Wyatt. Coach Ciovacco then took to the singles circuit by himself and came in second ·at the Shamrock Games in Worcester Massachusetts. The va:r;sity crew has already made plans to row in the Head of the Mohawk on October 4 and the Head of the Charles on October 19. - The team has a new women's coach who will be introduced tonight at the first meeting. The crew invites anyone who might be interested in rowing to attend their first meeting at 8:00 on the third floor of Old Chapel. The crew team is very hopeful for a successful year,· and hopes that anyone interested attend their meeting tonight. Looking Ahead to '88 By JAY GltOSSMAN Despite the :fact that this summer's news focused on some eventstbat have damaged the reputation of college sports (the death of l .. en Bias and the suspension of sixty Nebraska football players), the U.S. Olympic Spo~ts Festival in -Houston was a shining moment for amateur athletics. From July 25 to AugllSt 3, the festival was a showcase for America's Olympic caliber athletes. Over 4000 athletes competed in 34 sports selected from events that are held during tlte summer and winter Olympics and the Pan American Games. The sports festival has been one of the most important contributions to the success of American athletes in the Olympic ·Games. Americans won over 280 medals at the Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. 183 or those medals were won by past festival participants. Notable past performers include Mary Lou Retton, Carl Lewis, Greg Louganis, Al Oerfer, and the 1980 · U.S. Olyiiipic ice hockey team. The sports festival proceeds in Olympic-style fashion complete with Opening Ceremonies, Torch RWI and Olympic-style housing for -the athletes. Athletes ·are divided into four teams representing four regions (North, South, East, West). Captain-Rob Sharp prepares R~:~gby Team for opener at Albany, Al.lg. 27. Here in New York State, the Empire State Games took place in Buffalo, during the week following the sports festival. Over 10,000 athletes from six regions of the state participated in the largest Olympic-style Games ever held. Jeff Blatnick, a Schenectady native, is an ESG veteran and captured a gold medal in wrestling at the 19B4 Summer Olympics. Amateur athletics strive when competition and par- ticipation is stressed. This is self-evident by the success of the U.S. Olympic Sports Festival and the Empire State Games which took place this past summer. WRUC 89.7 presents Dutchmen Football Sat., Sept. 20 UNION- at Rochester 12: 30 Countdown to Touchdown 1:00 Pregame Show 1 :30.Kickoff Dutcllmen Footb~ll f;.ns tune in and see if Union can make i.t two · • ill a row this Saturday as the Dutchmen travel to Rochester. Pregrame show beginning at ll: 30 p;m. Full line action begins at 1:30 p.m. with Jeff McFarland, Bob Koch Cind Alex Gardner. C!Jnncnrilitnsis SPORTS · Charlie Slotnlk ·Looking at Sp.orts Last spring, head foot ball coach AI Bagnoli told junior Tim Valachovic that he would not C()ntinue to be a receiver as Valaclmvic would have liked, butillstead would be the backup quarterback. As Valachovic recalls, \I was disappointed at first, I was loCJking forward to playing receiver because I would get intc the game more than as a backllp quarterback.'' AS a result, Valachovic threw the football some over the summer, but not with the en- th\!Siasm of someone trying to beat out the starting quar- terllack. Gargiulo) had a tremendous season last year, and I didn't go into camp with the attitude that I wollld try to beat him out. Instead I would work on all the little things like knowing when tCJ «Jan audibles, and working on my footwork, so if the op- portmity came to play, I would be rEady\ said Valachovic. Tile opportunity has come and Tirn Valachovic is ready. During the St. Lawrence scrimmage two weeks ago, Mi.lte Gargiulo hurt his ankle. Valachovic came off the bench extremely nervous and un- prepared, but sparked the D11tcl!men to victory with ex- cepti()nal play. ''The St. Lawrence game was a real. confidence booster. I had not taken a snap from center in a g-ame situation since my SEnior year in high school,'' said Valachovic. After the game, Valachovic and everyone else on the team fig11r-ed Gargiulo's injury would nCJt be serious, and. the ex- pErienced quarterback would be healthy for the season opener. However word spread qui.ckly, Gargiulo's. ankle had been placed in a cast, and would be o11t an indefinite period of time, and most likely the entire SellSO!l. . A.11 hour after the St. LaV!rence scrimmage, starting dEfeDsive end Rich Romer walked into his friend Tim Vala'(hovic's room and said \Hell() Mr. starting Quar- terbaek.\ '~I looked. at him in disbelief at first. I didn't know what he was tallting about, and then I realized Mike was really hurt,\ recalls Valachovic. 'fim Valachovic was feeling tile way one would ex:pect someone to feel after just learning he would be the starting quarterback of a team that had only lost four games in the past. three seasons. They had been to the NCAA playoffs in each of those years, and had more importantly expected to win every game that they played this season. - \I was scared, and felt a lot of pressure, but at the same time I had a tremendous amount of confidence in the offensive system, the receivers, the rwming backs, and especially the offensive line.\ Coach Al Bagnoli has tried to make the job as easy as possible f()r Valachovtc. Initially Bagnoli did not let the media talk to Valachovic, so that he wculd not be distracted from football. Moreover, Bagnoli had simplified the offense for him, which should eliminate a lot of the confusion that would nor- mally be expected. In the Valachovic's first game a 7-6 win over Hobart on Saturday, the inexperienced Quarterback completed 11 of 23, passed for 121 yards, and thcew two interceptions. ·Although Valachovic's statistics were hardly im- pressive, he got the offense moving when they fell behind. After Hobart went ahead 6-0 in the 3rd quarter, Valachovic got the offense to respond with a 12 play 66 yard touchdown drive that enabled Union to take the lead after Bob Anderson's extra point kick. Most people expecteo Union to have a much easier time with Hobart, and ·as a result many people criticized Valachovic's performance. However last year The llnion offense only scored five more points in their opener against Hobart. As junior receiver George McEvoy says \Right now Tim Valachovic is the best quar- terback we have, and we're lucky to have him. He's better tllan the quarterback's of most ofthe school's we play, he runs the offense well, most im- portantly he throws the ball so we can catch it.\ All ''Athlete of. the Week'' awards can be picked up in the top floor of OLD CHAPEL at ·Concordiensis. Last year's winners that have yet to pick up their award·can still get them.

.,. ..... ' Q.l c. c. ro .:.-:: ~ > .0 0 .... 0 .s:: c. CONCORDIENSIS; September. IS, 1.986 . Dutchmen win opener See story below, Soccer Stmlned 7~1 in Lynchburg Tourney, to win consolation game. rebounds September 18, 1986 ••• Frosll Extra Point Lifts Dutchmen. to Vi,ctory By SID AND SPORTS STAFF SC:dENECTADY, N.Y.-The \new breed\ made debut last Saturday afternoon when the Union College Dutchmen opened their football centennial with a hard-earned 7-1l victory over a very good Hobart team. Fifth-year head coach AI Bagnoli and his squad will now embark on a three-game road trip that begins this week at Rochester. Trips to Waterville, Maine (Colby) and Worcester, Massachussets (WPI) will follow before the Dutchmen return home on October 11 to celebrate \100 Years of Foot- ball'' on Homecoming Weekend. \Dutchmen Face Rochester\ The Dutchmen will meet a Rochester team that is making its 1986 dPbut after losing a 17..0 scrimmage with Hamilton last week. Once more, the Yellowjackets have only a handful of seniors on their squad and will field a team that has over 40 freshrnell on their roster. Union has won the last four meetings against its \U-pstate New York opponent with the last non-victory coming in 1981 when the teams battled to a 14- 14 tie in SchenectadJ. The Jackets' last victorJ ()oVer the Dutchmen was in 198il when Rochester captured ia :!8..:20 decision in the seascm finale. The loss left Union wiili a 1-7...0 record under rookie head coach Joe Wirth., \Valachovic En~ineers Offense\ Junior quaTterback Tim Valachovic, who had never taken a varsity snap from center at the CDllege level prior to Saturday, engineered a 12- play, 66-yard drive in tile third quarter to help tr.e D11tchmen erase a 6-0 deficit. FrA~Jshman Bob Anderson pro:vid~d the margin of victory wh&n he split the uprights with the ext:ra point as Union won its loth con- secutive regular-seasoll game. \Hobart Opens Scoring\ Hobart, which hadn't scored on the Dutchmen in three previous years, jumped out to a 6-0 lead with 9:58 to play in the third quarter when quarterback Rob Spencer scrambled 13 yards to pay dirt. However, the Statesmen, who missed a 36- yard field goal attempt with 9:31 remaining in the opening half, also failed on the extra point. Union took the ensuing kickoff and drove 66 yards on 12 plays to tie the game with 4:13 left in the third stanza before · Anderson calmly provided the cr-itical extra point. A 29-yard kickoff return by Matt Smith gave the Dllt~hmen a first and 10 at their own 34. Four consecutive runs by junior tailback Darrell Shepherd picked up 22 yards to Hobart's 44. A third down penalty gave Union a first down on the Statesmen's 25 before con- secutive runs by Valachovic and senior tailback · Todd Walker put the Dutchmen on the 14. A Valachovic to Smith pass picked up seven yards before Volleyballers Make History By BARBARA BRADY The Union volleyball team made history this past weekend by bringing home its first trophy ever. They traveled to Poult- ney, Vermont to compete against five other teams at the Green Mountain Invitational Tournament. There they captured their trophy. The team's suc,.ess in the tournament was the result of the team's new arrivals, past experience and persiste~t coaching by Coach Bonme Gheiing, and assistant coach Tony DeMartino during a tough pre-season. The team began play with a victory over Bard College in two straight games on Friday. Saturday's competitors con· sisted of Skidmore ChllEge, St. Joseph's and Gre~n :Mountain College. Union defeated tbose teams as well. With the experienee of the seven returning play~rs, co- captains Barbara Bra<iy and Shelley Pino, junior Nancy Shultz and sophomores Jane Hackett, Anne Hoban, MElanie Masterson, and Jen St()l2, the team pulled together easily. As well, talent has bee11 atided to the team by new :members junior Michele Vllolo, sophomore Rocky Ghezzi, and freshmen Olessea Eutenko, Nancy Conway, Helen Lee, and Karen Nourizadeh. one major advantage that the volleyball team has 111is year is the strength of its alternate players. Also, few changes in the Union volleyball mster has enabled the team to begin their season where they left off last year rather than start from square one with all new faces. All players contribute in every match and it is often difficult to individually recognize out- standing performances. This weekend such recognition was given to Shelley Pino and Anne Hoban who were named to the All Tournament team. A concluding note: It was a second place trophy that Union received. They were defeated only by Siena, but a trophy is a trophy! Congratulations to the team, Coach Gheling and assistant coach Tony DeMartino. sophomore fullback Steve Hayes capped the drive arourtd left end. Union threatened once more when it drove from its 26 to Hobart's one, but a fumbled center snap gave the Statesmen . the ball and ended Union's bii:l. Remain Second In Coaches Poll Despite the narrow victory, Union remained second in the Upstate New York Coaches' Poll. Ithaca, the preseason favorite and a 28-7 victor over Albany State, received all 14 first place votes for 70 points. Union, which was ranked second·~ the pl'eseason poll, had 47 pomts followed by, Alfred (45) and Canisius (31). Hobart and Hamilton tied for fifth with six points each.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, September 18, 1986 >- .0 0 0 .r::: 0. ~; .. . ·l~. ·\: Dutchmen win opener See story below. ••• Frosh 1J ::r 0 .... 0 o- \< )> i\\ Q) 1J 1J ro ., Soccer Stunned 7-1 in Lynchburg Tourney rebounds to win consolation game. ' September 18, 1986 Extra Point Lifts Dutchmen to Victory By SID AND SPORTS STAFF SCclENECTADY, N.Y.-The \new breed\ made debut last Saturday afternoon when the Union College Dutchmen opened their football centennial with a hard-earned 7-6 victory over a very good Hobart team. Fifth-year head coach Al Bagnoli and his squad will now embark on a three-game road trip that begins this week at Rochester. Trips to Waterville, Maine (Colby) and Worcester, Massachussets (WPI) will follow before the Dutchmen return horne on October 11 to celebrate \100 Years of Foot- ball'' on Homecoming Weekend. \Dutchmen Face Rochester\ The Dutchmen will meet a Rochester team that is making its 1986 df>but after losing a 17-0 scrimmage with Hamilton last week. Once more, the Yellowjackets have only a handful of seniors on their squad and will field a team that has over 40 freshmen on their roster. Union has won the last four meetings against its Upstate New York opponent with the last non-victory coming in 1981 when the teams battled to a 14- 14 tie in Schenectady. The Jackets' last victory over the Dutchmen was in 1980 when Rochester captured a 38-20 decision in the season finale. The loss left Union with a 1-7-0 record under rookie head coach Joe Wirth .. \Valachovic Engineers Offense\ Junior quarterback Tim Valachovic, who had never taken a varsity snap from center at the college level prior to Saturday, engineered a 12- play, 66-yard drive in the third quarter to help tl:.e Dutchmen erase a 6-0 deficit. Freshman Bob Anderson provided the margin of victory when he split the uprights with the extra point as Union won its loth con- secutive regular-season game. \Hobart Opens Scoring\ Hobart, which hadn't scored on the Dutchmen in three previous years, jumped out to a 6-0 lead with 9:58 to play in the third quarter when quarterback Rob Spencer scrambled 13 yards to pay dirt. However, the Statesmen, who missed a 36- yard field goal attempt with 9:31 remaining in the opening half, also failed on the extra point. Union took the ensuing kickoff and drove 66 yards on 12 plays to tie the game with 4: 13 left in the third stanza before Anderson calmly provided the critical extra point. A 29-yard kickoff return by Matt Smith gave the Dutchmen a first and 10 at their own 34. Four consecutive runs by junior tailback Darrell Shepherd picked up 22 yards to Hobart's 44. A third down penalty gave Union a first down on the Statesmen's 25 before con- secutive runs by Valachovic and senior tailback Todd Walker put the Dutchmen on the 14. A Valachovic to Smith pass picked up seven yards before Volley bailers Make History By RARBARA BRADY The Union volleyball team made history this past weekend by bringing home its first trophy ever. Tht.y traveled to Poult- ney, Vermont to compete against five other teams at the Green Mountain Invitational Tournament. There they captured their trophy. The team's suc\ess in the tournament was the result of the team's new arrivals, past experience and persistent coaching by Coach Bonnie Gheting, and assistant coach Tony DeMartu10 during a tough pre-season. The team began play with a victory over Bard College in two straight games on Friday. Saturday's competitors con- sisted of Skidmore College, St. Joseph's and Green Mountain College. Union defeated those teams as well. With the experience of the seven returning players, co- captains Barbara Brady and Shelley Pino, junior Nancy Shultz and sophomores Jane Hackett, Anne Hoban, Melanie Masterson, and Jen Stolz, the team pulled together easily. As well, talent has been added to the team by new members junior Michele Vuolo, sophomore Rocky Ghezzi, and freshmen Olessea Butenko, Nancy Conway, Helen Lee, and Karen Nourizadeh. One major advantage that the volleyball team has this year is the strength of its alternate players. Also, few changes in the Union volleyball roster has enabled the team to begin their season where they left off last year rather than start from square one with all new faces. All players contribute in every match and it is often difficult to individually recognize out- standing performances. This weekend such recognition was given to Shelley Pino and Anne Hoban who were named to the All Tournament team. A concluding note: It was a second place trophy that Union received. They were defeated only by Siena, l>ut a trophy is a trophy! Congratulations to the team, Coach Gheling and assistant coach Tony DeMartino. sophomore fullback Steve Hayes capped the drive around left end. Union threatened once more when it drove from its 26 to Hobart's one, but a fumbled center snap gave the Statesmen the ball and ended Union's bid. Remain Second In Coaches Poll Despite the narrow victory, Union remained second in the Upstate New York Coaches' Poll. Ithaca, the preseason favorite and a 28-7 victor over Albany State, received all 14 first place votes for 70 points. Union, which was ranked second in the preseason poll had 47 points followed by Alfred (45) and Canisius (31). Hobart and Hamilton tied for fifth with six points each. '' ' ~ ' '. ~ ; . . ' . '. ' . ' . : . ·. . . . . : ' \ ' : ' : . ' 'I ' • - \ ·, t \ , • • ' • • • ' ~ •' • • 'I ' - • • • ,• ' '1. ' ' ' ~ ' ' : ' • \ '\ 9/19FR10AY Field Hockey vs. Skidmore JV Field Hocl<ey vs. Skidmore W. Tennis vs. Co1gate Votleybaii-Ainany State Tourney 9/20SATUROAY FMtball at R<><:hestEtr Soccer at Kin.gs Pt>int ) V SQccer vs. Skidmore VO'IIeybafl -Albany State Tourney W. Soccer at Mt. Holyoke 9/22MONDAY ,:J:M'•F'Dotban vs.Albany St. · · 9/~3T:UEl:SOAY . ftlelct Hockey vs. HarrHiton · .JV,fi!.f!~·Hoctwy vs .. HarnHt<ln • Tlimnlsvs. Hamilton.· . J~Ybe}IIV$.N~W eau~ ·. .,.,. Ga tn~t Sto·reboa · 'd · · . . ·.·· .... · r. .. ~ . ·FOOTBALL 0-0) 'tJf:>JlC'J» 1 ._,, __ .,_ 7; i.S 4':45 3:30 Away lt30 l~oo lhOQ Away 1;!)9 H<>batt 6 0Nl0N2 K<tenel).

:! 1877 Delta Upsilon to Be Evicted Fraternity Violates Probation, Social Policy By DAVID GULLIVER The Delta Upsilon .fraternity currently residing in Potter HCiuse, will be forc~d off campus. In a decision released yesterday afternoon, the Delta Upsilon fraternity will be evicted. from their current on campus residence, Potter House, at the end of the fall term this year. According to Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, the fraternity violated social probation and certain conditions set down in a letter dated May 13, 1986, ad- dressed to .sean Duffy, President of Delta Upsilon. Mammola stated yesterday in an interview that \the Delta Upsilon chapter will. not be allowed to reside as a group\ and that \the college will not _Liberal Learning· Policy Modified Union Responds to Preprofessionalism · grant (the fraternity members) reserved space as a group.'' The house was found to be in violation of college social policy fQr their traditional party after the St. Lawre:!lce football game on September6, 1986. The party By DEBRA B. HONIG made the choice, it becomes limited.\ After investigating The Union administration is the sitq.ation, Dr. D'Andrea ma~ing changes in the Liher~l • feels, ''In. ~o~e part of your Learning progr,am~ because- -of .. , .con-,.,~ence,...you should the notion that a more coherent see how tbings sort of relate · was not registered and un- derage studel).t~ were present when ·Assistant · .Dean . of Students Robert Massa arrived set .of requirements will provide together.\ . a more polished education. An As a ~result of this effort· to · around midnight. The fraternity . was already on• social probation stemming from incidents oc- curring during the 1985-86 school year. all campus notice will be posted enhance the college's today informing the community curriculum, the mathe~tics of · the ·new liberal learning department is looking into policy. a~ding some n~w classe~, such The trend toward as Cost Benefit Analysis and According to Dean of Students · Joseph Mammola, Delta Upsilon was notified of their status in a letter dated May 13, 1986, which was addressed to Sean Duffy, president of the preprofessionalism, which has St~tistics and Pro~bUity.. The supposedly detracted from tbe ~c1ence d.epartment 1s t~y111g to quality of undergraduate unprove 1ts course offermgs for education; is the primary non-science majors. The social reas·on for this extensive sci~nces department, al~o review. According to Vice trymg to add depth to Its . fraternity. Tb.e letter stated that \social probation is effective immediately and extending into the 1986-87 school year\ and that ''the violation of this President for Academic Affairs department, will modify its Thomas D'Andrea, \The general notion for looking at th.e liberal learning requirements is a concern of a number of people that in· the general education, people are not getting the broad sense of culture that was always called liberal arts.\ \Writing as an un· dergraduate experience •.• is widely neglected.,, Integrity inthe College Curriculum The present requirements include:. Freshman Precep- torial, two courses from Human Behavior and Institutions, two courses from Natural Sciences, two courses from Perspectives from Another Culture, two courses from Symbolic and Quantative Reasoning, and a mix of three courses from Arts a!ld Literature, and Technology and its Social Applications. Under this system, th~ student may·choose any courses, so long as he fulfills the requirements from each category. The goal of the proposed system, however, would be to create amore of a rwming theme between the literature and history courses the student chooses. For example, if the stud .. ent chooses 19th Century Aniencen Novels, then his hiStory course could .be 19th Century American History. According to President of the . Student Forum Steven Moss, ''You maintain the ability to choose the tittle period you like, on one hand, but once . you've Continued on page 3 Fraternity· Rush Formalized ''Dr,y'·' Activities Required . By JASON FEINGOLD rush chairman of Phi Gamma Delta, ''Last year the ad- This year is the first year in ministration said dry rush but which the fraternity rush has they didn't organize it and been made into a structured support it well.\ form.. Before last year all According to Mike Rohan, rushing had been informal. Last rush chairman of Zeta Beta year was the first attempt at a Tau, the new policy \will help dry rush; however, there was set mere freshmen into no real policy or guidelines to . checking out the fraternities. It give any meaning to it. will be less exclusive.\ Fresh- According to Dean Massa it . . men who nonnally wouldn't \had no teeth in it. u Last year have gone tD see a house but .the school set out guidelines might have been interested in which the Interfraternity one will find that there are Council (IFC) implemented in a functions at each house that are policy written in part by Pat open to everyone and they won't Ve.rnich, last year's IFC have to wait for an invitation. Pre$ident, Jeff McFarland, this This open invitation stage is in year's IFC President, Craig the .fonnal rush period and it Blum and ·Dan Lazarek. occurs during weeks three and This year's policy includes four of fall term. A further sanctions against houses that · effect of this period, says Jeff violate the dry rush. These are Bernstein, co-rush chairman of \$100 for the first offense, $200 · Delta Chi, is that \it might get for the second offense, and freshmen to check out more social probation for the third · than one or two houses.\ The offense.\ Last year functions effect of this will probably be a that were designed for rush had greater opp<~rtunity to select to be dry but at the same time rushees and to distribute bids. nobody ·had to declare them so . Another important effect of few dry functions ever took · this is that it will sort out the place. This year each house is \here for t11e beer\ rushees required to host at least one but from those who are smcere not more than two totany dry about piedgillg a house, agrees. functions that are open to all Marcus. Says Oean Massa. freshmen. Says Rick Marcus, · Continued on page 3 probation or any other section of the Student Conduct Code will result in the termination of your building lease with the college and the immediate loss of on- · campus housing ior the entire · fraternity.\ · str~cture, workings, and makeup of the fraternity.\ This plan was delivered Monday morning, September 22. Mammola said that it was still too early to tell if the plan would be considered a~ a serious attempt at reparation or as a last-minute effort. The plan, according to Sean Duffy, has been produced over the past few months by Delta Upsilon. The initial ten pages were about finances, and a five-page in- troduction about the reasons for having the party. . On September 16, Mammola · told Concordiensis that the official decision on Delta Up- silon would be released to the paper on the following Tuesday. In an interview on that day, September 23, he stated that the . decision could not yet be released because the college · was considering a written proposal from the fraternity \as a matter of courtesy.\ Mammola described it as \a systematic plan by the fraternity and its officers and a group of fraternity alumni trustees to improve the Duffy explained, \We weren't trying to.shove the pa1ty in the administration's face. Every year we have a party after double sessions end. We only invite the players, coaches and their wives. Eventually other Continued on page 3 Freshman Class Size Increases; Adrnissions Office Cites Reasons Union Now Listed As \Ve~y Competitive\ By LEE ANN SCHMIDT The low.er attrition rate could Although the nation is ex- be caused by a number of periencing a decline in factors. Crozier stated that it · enrollment in four year was her belief that Union is colleges, this year's freshman becoming more attractive to class at Union is not suffering prospective students~because of from this ·trend. In fact, the its improved national standing; freshman class, 1,544 students, Un,ion is now listed as \very was substantially llll'ger than competitive\ in the Barron's expected. Guide to Colleges as opposed. to ·Of the 3,053 applicants this Union's former listing as year the Admissions office \highly cQmpetitive.\ She also accepted 1,544 people. This is 49 stated that the improvements more than were accepted last on the campus also increase year. Comparing this increase Union's attractiveness. The to normal fluctuations college has become first on the throughout the past eight years, list for more prospective it is not an unustuilly high students, and the attrition rate number (see box below). therefore, has decreased. The Admissions Office It is difficult to predict trends determines how many ac- in enrQllment, or yield. Dean ceptances to grant by utilizing Nourse, Dean of AdmiSsions past ex:pet:,iences and studying and Financial Aid, stated that the yield in past years. Yield is both Duke and Emory faced the number of paid deposits overenrollment of 300 students (students enrolled) divided by this year. However, Crozier the number - of acceptances believes that a rolling ad- given out. missions program is not an According to Dianne Crozier, answer to the problem of over- Senior Assistant to the Dean of enrollment. Such a program Admissions, the excess number would inhibit the Admissions . of freshmen enrolled this year Office's ability to closely \was pri.plarily aaused by a control the type of students much lower attrition rate this enrolled in the college. summer. For the past eight Both Ann · Fleming, years approximately 70 Assistant to the Dean of prospective freslunen who had Admissions, and Diane Crozier enrolled in the college dropped emphasized several goals of the out during the summer. When Admissions Office. They wish to the Admissions Office ~continue to seek qualified, in- calculates how many aco terestedstudentsto enroll in the ceptances to present, this at- college. Further, they hope to trition rate is taken into ac- · increase graphic distribution on count. However, this summer, . a national level, and increase the attrition rate was one-half of the percentage of females at- what it was projected to be. _ tending the college; REPO~TONFRESHMANCLA~ ADMISSIONS TO UNION COLLEGE %OF CLASS OF APPLICANTS ACCEPT ENROLLED YIELD 1983 3031 1731 538 31 1964 3385 1453 530 36.4 1965 3:241 1335 520 38.9 1986 3056 1387 537 38.7 1987 3203 1249 528 42.3 1988 2972 1241 532 42.9 1989 3211 1493 508 34 1990 3()53 1544 544 35 . . \ . . \ . . ' ~ . .

CXVI, No.3 September 25~ 1986 Delta Upsilon to Be Evicted Fraternity Violates Probation, Social Policy 0 - 0 .c a. - The Delta Upsilon fraternity currently residing in Potter House, will be forced off campus. Liberal Learning Policy Modified Union Responds to Preprofessionalism By DEBRA B. HONIG The Union administration is making changes in the Liberal Learning program because of the notion that a more coherent set of requirements will provide a more polished education. An all campus notice will be posted today informing the community of the new liberal learning policy. The trend toward made the choice, it becomes limited.'' After investigating the situation, Dr. D'Andrea feels, \In some part of your college. e!perience, you should see how things sort of relate together.\ As a result of this effort to enhance the college's curriculum, the mathematics department is looking into adding some new classes, such as Cost Benefit Analysis and Statistics and Probability. The science department is trying to improve its course offerings for nonascience majors. The social sciences department, also trying to add depth to its department, will modify its Continued on page 3 By DAVID GULLIVER In a decision released yesterday afternoon, the Delta Upsilan fraternity will be evicted from their current on campus residence, Potter House, at the end of the fall term this year. According to Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, the fraternity violated social probation and certain conditions set down in a letter dated May 13, 1986, ad- dressed to Sean Duffy, President of Delta Upsilon. Mammola stated yesterday in an interview that \the Delta Upsilon chapter will not be allowed to reside as a group\ and that \the college will not grant (the fraternity members) reserved space as a group.\ The house was found to be in violation of college social policy for their traditional party after the St. Lawrence football game on September 6, 1986. The party was not registered and un- derage students were present when Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa arrived around midnight. The fraternity was already on social probation stemming from incidents oc- curring during the 1985-86 school year. According to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, Delta Upsilon was notified of their status in a letter dated May 13, 1986, which was addressed to Sean Duffy, president of the fraternity. The letter stated that \social probation is effective immediately and extending into the 1986-87 school year\ and that \the violation of this preprofessionalism, which has supposedly detracted from the quality of undergraduate education, is the primary reason for this extensive review. According to Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea, ''The general notion for looking at the liberal learning requirements is a concern of a number of people that in the general education, people are not getting the broad sense of culture that was always called liberal arts.\ Fraternity Rush Formalized \Writing as an un- dergraduate experience ... is widely neglected. \ Integrity in the College Curriculum The present requirements include: Freshman Precep- torial, two courses from Hwnan Behavior and Institutions, two courses from Natural Sciences, two courses from Perspectives from Another Culture, two courses from Symbolic and Quantative Reasoning, and a mix of three courses ·from Arts and Literature, and Technology and its Social Applications. Under this system, the student may choose any courses, so long as he fulfills the requirements from each category. The goal of the proposed system, however, would be to create amore of a running theme between the literature and history courses the student chooses. For example, if the studen.t chooses 19th Century Americen Novels, then his history course could be 19th Century American History. According to President of the Student Forum Steven Moss, \You maintain the ability to choose the time period you like, on one hand, but once you've ''Dry'' Activities Required By JASON FEINGOLD This year is the first year in which the fraternity rush has been made into a structured form. Before last year all rushing had been informal. Last year was the first attempt at a dry rush; however, there was no real policy or guidelines to give any meaning to it. According to Dean Massa it \had no teeth in it.\ Last year the school set out guidelines which the Interfraternity Council (IFC) implemented in a policy written in part by Pat Vernich, last year's IFC President, Jeff McFarland, this year's IFC President, Craig Blum and Dan Lazarek. This year's policy includes sanctions against houses that violate the dry rush. These are \$100 for the first offense, $200 for the second offense, and social probation for the third offense.\ Last year functions that were designed for rush had to be dty but at the same time nobody had to declare them so few dry functions ever took place. This year each house is required to host at least one but not more than two totally dry functions that are open to all freshmen. Says Rick Marcus, rush chairman of Phi Gamma Delta, \Last year the ad- ministration said dry rush but they didn't organize it and support it well.\ According to Mike Rohan, rush chairman of Zeta Beta Tau, the new policy \will help set mere freshmen into checking out the fraternities. It will be less exclusive.\ Fresh- men who normally wouldn't have gone to see a house but might have been interested in one will find that there are functions at each house that are open to everyone and they won't have to wait for an invitation. This open invitation stage is in the formal rush period and it occurs during weeks three and four of fall term. A further effect of this period, says Jeff Bernstein, co-rush chairman of Delta Chi, is that \it might get freshmen to check out more than one or two houses.\ The effect of this will probably be a greater opportunity to select rushees and to distribute bids. Another important effect of this is that it will sort out the \here for the beer\ rushees from those who are smcere about pledging a house, agrees Marcus. Says Dean Massa. Continued on page 3 probation or any other section of the Student Conduct Code will result in the termination of your building lease with the college and the immediate loss of on- campus housing for the entire fraternity.\ · On September 16, Mammola told Concordiensis that the official decision on Delta Up- silon would be released to the paper on the following Tuesday. In an interview on that day, September 23, he stated that the decision could not yet be released because the college was considering a written proposal from the fraternity \as a matter of courtesy.\ Mamrnola described it as \a systematic plan by the fraternity and its officers and a group of fraternity alumni trustees to improve the structure, workings, and makeup of the fraternity.\ This plan was delivered Monday morning, September 22. Mammola said that it wab still too early to tell if the plan would be considered as a serious attempt at reparation or as a last-minute effort. The plan, according to Sean Duffy, has been produced over the past few months by Delta Upsilon. The initial ten pages were about finances, and a five-page in- troduction about the reasons for having the party. Duffy explained, \We weren't trying to shove the party in the administration's face. Every year we have a party after double sessions end. We only invite the players, coaches and their wives. Eventually other Continued on page 3 Freshman Class Size Increases; Admissions Office Cites Reasons Union Now Listed As \Very Competitive\ By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Although the nation is ex- periencing a decline in enrollment in four year colleges, this year's freshman class at Union is not suffering from this trend. In fact, the freshman class, 1,544 students, was substantially larger than expected. Of the 3,053 applicants this year the Admissions office accepted 1,544 people. This is 49 more than were accepted last year. Comparing this increase to normal fluctuations throughout the past eight years, it Is not an unusually high number (see box below). The Admissions Office determines how many ac- ceptances to grant by utilizing past exper:iences and studying the yield in past years. Yield is the number of paid deposits (students enrolled) divided by the number of acceptances given out. According to Dianne Crozier, Senior Assistant to the Dean of Admissions, the excess nwnber of freshmen enrolled this year · was primarily caused by a much lower attrition rate this sununer. For the past eight years approximately 70 prospective freshmen who had enrolled in the college dropped out during the summer. When the Admissions Office calculates how many ac- ceptances to present, this at- trition rate is taken into acM count. However, this summer, the attrition rate was one-half of what it was projected to be. The lower attrition rate could be caused by a nwnber of factors. Crozier stated that it was her belief that Union is becoming more attractive to prospective students·because of its improved national standing; Union is now listed as \very competitive\ in the Barron's Guide to Colleges as opposed to Union's former listing as ''highly competitive.\ She also stated that the improvements on the campus also increase Union's attractiveness. The college has become first on the list for more prospective students, and the attrition rate therefore, has decreased. It is difficult to predict trends in enrollment, or yield. Dean Nourse, Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid, stated that both Duke and Emory faced overenrollment of 300 students this year. However, Crozier believes that a rolling ad- missions program is not an answer to the problem of over- enrollment. Such a program would inhibit the Admissions Office's ability to closely control the type of students enrolled in the college. Both Ann Fleming, Assistant to the Dean of Admissions, and Diane Crozier emphasized several goals of the Admissions Office. They wish to continue to seek qualified, in- terested students to enroll in the college. Further, they hope to increase graphic distribution on a national level, and increase the percentage o£ females at- tending the college. REPORT ON FRESHMAN CLASS ADMISSIONS TO UNION COLLEGE %OF CLASS OF APPLICANTS ACCEPT ENROLLED YIELD 1983 3031 1731 538 31 1984 3385 1453 530 36.4 1985 3241 1335 520 38.9 1986 3056 1387 537 38.7 1987 3203 1249 528 42.3 1988 2972 1241 532 42.9 1989 3211 1493 508 34 1990 3053 1544 544 35 j • • • • ' • ' • • • : • ' ; • • • • • ' ~ . . . . . .

CONCORDIENSJS, September 25, 1986 Director of Security Cliff Wood· describes the functio'r1ing of the new· security phone system. Emergency Phones Installed ; Prompt Security Promised , By JON COHN If you haven't already noticed all over the campus there are new white phones labeled \Emergency Only\. The welcomed new system features quick response security in case of emergencies. The new system is simple. The phones only need to be lifted off their cradle. This then alerts the Communications Operator at the Security . and Safety Department by projecting the code nwnber of the pJ;lone onto a screen. The operator will then immediately notify campus officers to the scene, where the pnone can be deactivated only by being placed back onto the receiver. The important thing is that no voice communication is necessary to activate the phone. The school security has been trying to get this system into operation for eleven years,\ says security director Clifford Wood. The new ffiX system recently installed provided the school with a cbance to combine the systems and save money. \We also received cooperation from women's organizations at Union as well as from the student Forum, to make this program possible, \ said Mr. Wood. Most importantly students should realize that if the phone is activated without there being a real emergency, officers could be taken away from a real emergency somewhere else. When used right, the system is beneficial for all. EMERGENCY PHONES EXTERIOR HOTLINE: 27 North Terrace Lane SE Corner Arts Building East Side Achilles Rink near Whinnle Brid!!e East Side Bailey Hall Corner South College (at South Terrace Lane & South Lane) Northeast corner of Davidson Southwest corner of Humanities Northeast corner of Social Science Behind Placement Bldg. No. 30 INTERIOR HOTLINE: Art Bldg. Photo Lab, Rm. 202 Schaffer Library Basement Schaffer Library Mezzanine Schaffer Library 3rd Floor Steinmetz- 1st. Floor on wall outside computer center. New Telecommunications System Adds Flexibility, Reduces Costs By ELIZABETH WRIGHT the new system provides office and faculty personnel with improved means to control costs, as well as to expand. . end and a modular jack on the other. This equipment will be available for purchase in the bookst.ore. Hopefully, this system wi:ll be a great con- In 1984, a committee was assembled in order to in- vestigate whether or not there was a need for a 'new telecommunications network on campus. The committee, made up of administratorsi facultY, students, staff, and a consulting firm, issued a .formal request for proposals to a number· of qualified vendors in the fall of 1984. The responses were reviewed and evaluated and .in January, 1986, the Buildings , venience to students and an . improvement over the previous • system. Students also benefit from the modern system. Each dorm room (670 of-them): is provided with a telephone set. Unlimited on-campus 4-digit dialing and local calling a.re features similar to the old system: There are three added conveniences; • with the new system: call~ waiting 1 abbreviated dialihg, and 3- and 7-way confe~;ence callio,g. · In addition to the new phones and expanded computer system, tbere ate 'emergency' phones. throughout campus and also 'campus only· di·s:ling' phones in academic buildings and dormitories (See related article p.. 2 ) The emergency and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees accepted the proposal from the NYNEX corporation. Installation ·began in late January, 1986, and was completed on August 8, 1986. . Union's Board: of Trustees. Chairman is · also Vice President of NYNEX,. in- stallers of the new telephone system.~. phones al\'e in red . telephone boxes outdoors in nine places and White bo~eS ifldoOi'$ in :five Chairman of -the Union . ·college Board of_ Trustees, The process by which long William Burns, is also the Vice · diStance calls are made is also President and Cliief Financial... . . new~ Students have the option of Officer of NYNEX. When asked signing up with AT&T tlf13mgh· . if this fact affected Union's the scliool or sig~\Witb one choice, Diane · Winkler, of the other-\'several long~ Telecommunications Manager, distance carriers. According to said, \for obvious. reasons, Winkler, 1,200 students signed NYNEX worked very hard to up with AT&T out of 1,400 get the bid. However, Union got students liviJlg on campus .. She what they - wanted from also pOinted out that the school NYNEX.\ is giving a 50 percent discount The committee chose to off d&y rates from between 5 purchase an integrated voice- p.m. to 8 p.m. As of September · data telecommunications . 26, 1986, the regular rates will system and also an independent change from 35 percent to 25 yet parallel data network percent from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. between the 14 college-owned a.nd 60 percent to 50 percent and operated residence halls from 11 p,m. to 8 a.m. The and the DEC Vax cluster in the Union 50 percent discount also computer center. The new applies on the weekends and system has several advantages holidays. over the eld centrex system. In order to make long- First, the system is owned and distance calls, students are operated by the college, thereby issued a confidential 7-digit providing protection for authorization code. Sub- students against rate and tariff sequently, each student increases. Second, the system is receives a bill for his-her long adaptable to new technologies distance phone calls. Students because of the very nature of also have the convenient the system. Third, it is also method of paying at the more efficient in that it ensures Cashier's Office in the integrity with the system Administration Building: The redundacy and reliability of billing date is the .first of the campus communications. month. One feature not offered, . Fourth, a human-computer according to Winkler,. is the· . interface termi.nal facilitates cross-state service. campus moves, adds, changes, In order to gain access to the and system diagnostics. Fifth, Vax system, students must · places. When· the handset is . lifted :the security office is immediately notified and an officer .is sent to that phone box • . This sy.stem, if .used properly, . will woxk to the benefit oCthe entire campus. When asked. if , the system is working properly, Winklel\.replied \Wen sofar.\ Being now, though, it bas had\its share of problems such . as · faulty equipment, etc, which will work themselves out in the. · near future. CAMPUS ONLY PHONES Academic Bldgs. Bailey Hall 3rd floor outside rm,. 304 S&E Center- 3rd floor North, outside rm. N310 S&E Center- 2nd floor South, outside rm, 8218 S&E Center- 3rd floor South, outside rm. 8326 S&E Center- Basement South in Room 8004 (lab) Art Bldg. Cat Lab Art Bldg. 1st floor, outside nn, 111 Art Bldg. 2nd floor, outside rm. 208 Art· Bldg. 3rd. floor, outside rm. 318 (top of stairs) Social Sciences Bldg. Hallway near SS016 Library- All night study Humanities Bldg., CHUC . room. Dormitories Why Should A Student Com.e to Union? obtain an account by filling out an application form and paying a small fee at the Office of Computer Services. The system will allow 750 dorm rooms and 100 other terminals to compete for the 350 ports 01;1 the VAX cluster. A student must have a standard RS232 21-pin com- munication port as well as a Hickok House, main entrance Davidson, near nn. 134 Davidson, near rm. 150 Fox, in rom. 134 nelrt to 137 Fox, outside rm. 157 President Morris Reviews Liberal Arts and General Education South College, near entrance By DAVID GULLIVER Editor's note: In this second and final installment, President Morris explains· how his per· sonality affects his operation of the college. In addition, he answers the crucial question of why someone should come to Union. DG: What elements of your · character and background influence you most strongly and in what ways is this apparent in your direction of Union? PM: When I first came to the United States I became in- volved with Colgate and there I learned about the nature of the American liberal arts system. I had been trained in the British system, so the American system was new and very ex· citing. I became convinced the liberal arts college tradition was something quite unique and very important. · Later, I came back to Colgate as a full time instructor. I felt that this was an important step in my personal life. That commitment shaped my beliefs. It was, in a way, a personal discovery of the value of the tradition. of the liberal arts. DG: You mentioned the British system. How is it dif- ferent? PM: The general British system tends to be specialized; they specialize in degree work at a very young age. They basically begin in high school with three subjects, then narrow further. A bachelor's degree in Britain is highly specialized and highly con- centrated... there are some · exceptions, though. Here, liberal arts starts with breadth and slowly nartows. Continued on page 3 . \Mod Tap\ converter- a device with an RS232 connection on one rm. 11)8 · Webster, nn. 130 North College, outside i'lll. 130, against wall,. rm. 108 Richmond area 126,. outside rm. 121 West College, outside rm. 111. Vtzlue cfiOO Enduwmenfs on June 30, 1985 ''\' ·- - I. Uni-.ity ol To- Syai~Nft 1 ........ . ~ ==.y·::::::::::::::::: 4. Yale i.Jn-.lty • \ ......... • ........ . 5. Stanford Un!wtlily 1 • ., • ·.- • · ... • ••· · • e. Columbia Uniwofaity . • • • .. .. . . .. . . . 7. Masaa<:huMtiS lftll. ol Tec~nology •. e. Univonity at· Colifomla • • • .. .. .. . . .. 9. u.......,.,..., of ChiCago ............... .. 10. WMI1ington Univoritty (M<ll . 11. RletUI\i-.lty ..................... . 12. ~ly ol Ao<:heltaf ·,· .. 1:1. Noflhweoto<n Unlvtdll'f .......• • · · · 1~. Ern4ry Unt...lllty' ................... . 15. Cornell Uni-ty ................... . ·1e. IWw York llnlwnil)' ' ................ . 11. u-..ty ol P1nntylvonia .. . . .. . 11. JoMa 11op1t1na Univ<lrslty · . . . . . . . . \· Rocl<allillf UflrMrslty. .. .. ......... . 20. llat1mouthCol .............. . 21. -bill UnMrlity ................ . 22. Ut\t)'Witly of IlOilO DIIM . • . . . . · 23. C..Uiornla lnolltute ol TOChnology 1 •.• 24. un, .. rslty o1 Soulllom California . . . . 25. I.Jntvenity ol Virginia · 2& o....u ... _ 21 can WNllffl RaeNe Un1ri;,...ty 21. Southatft U.tnodl&f Unrv.rsny J 211. Snuirt Coliogo ..... . 30 Brown UniWIIi'IUy 31. .Untvtomty cl O.lawa:e 32 'NeiiMIIY College 33. Un&•lf'llly of Mu:htgan . 34 W5lllama Coltep 35. CArnegie Millon UnlwetS41y ...•.•.•... 36 W.il..,att~ Untvtttuty l7 un,varatty or M•nnnota 31. DayiQf Unwtn•ty • , .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. 3t GrtnMIII Collagl «). Swirtlunort Col .. go·. . . • ... 4l. Unlvewty ·Ot Clncmnatl •..•... ~2 Georot Wuhlngton Umvtrlllty 43. Loyoaa Um'i6fl!ly of Clllcago 44 -.m~tt COllege «.. Ohto Stat• unive;ltry .co. Un~nlty ot -f{lcnmond •.•..•.... 47 Un•,... .. ty of PlllabUrgh . . .. v ...... Coii\'JJ 48. B•vkH .Cot'-UI of MecJ•u,. so Be ... ·Col· ~31.1111- .......... 12.273.302.000 $2,i27,200.01111 2,4118,300,000 2,6114.800.11011 1.287.800.opll 1.51i.2«1.000 1,060,670,000 1,3011.690.0110 143,9111,000 I,Qe3,690.01111 ass.22t:ooo 978.640.000 64s.m.ooo 770,167;000 559.411.000 'i16.10i.OOO 517,100,000 640.aOO.oOo 474.~.000 622.075.000 462,156,000 570.&76.000 51111.276.000 567.~.000 «D-714,000 552.201.000 457,830,000 535.1125.000 417.671.000. 51e.ll56.000 384.000.000 450. 7011.0\)0 329.431l.OOO 437.064.000 304.029.000 393. 12!1.000 ~.1121.000 3S1.2ll4,000 318.870.0!10 leG,02t,OOO 281.86oi.OCJ 318,322.Qil0 25<4.000:000 306.i30.000 233,70(!,000 28oi.30o.OOO 233.B3S.OOO 267Ji02,000 21U87.000 258.477,000 ·~.676.0Cl0 2llt.071,000 IU 201 ,()(I) 264.12&.000 174.225,000 233.6SII.oo0 iiUOII.OOO 222.378.000 175.200000 222.300.000 i7.UGI.OOO 212.000.000 156 223.000 20!1000.000 15S.635.000 203 675.oo0 1~.1J3 000 199 !1911 000 162,504.000 193,458.000 156.641.000 1118.675.000 n~l reported 101.2lieOOO 158.712000 175.611.000 12f956'000 115063.01111 143.508000 i74 .• 29.000 145,0IO.OOQ 169.3417.000 134 795.000 1611:194000 101! 011000 16!1.009.000 t32 309 000 1611.134.000 ·1:11~000 181281.000 :~·~!1::::1 i62,HII.OOO 1110,483.000 128,.., 000 158;100000 10611'-4 000 15.ll41 000 1t9 032 oOO 150261 000 )All Gf Map Jt, 1115 : ''\' - 51. -- Uni..m!y .............. .. 112. Pomona College .................... . 53. llenNollef Polwi- lnatlluto ..... . 54: rul..,. u-..ty .................. .. 55. George10WII Univoni!y .............. . 511. LW\igh Unillenily, .• ' .............. .. 57. loliddlobury Collegc .. ' .............. . 511. lalal\fn• Col~og~o ............. , .• \ .. sa. Univtraity· o1 rleoruU .............. . GO. 'lbomu Joiflonon Univtnlty ......... . 61. a..,..., Unl'lll'llllY ................. . 82. BOston.U,...,.!y. . .. 113. UniYOtlily of·Fionda .......... ,. .... . ·Sc4. Tulia Unl .. rs•IJ . . . . . 115. WtWrlng1~ Slilo URM\fSIIY •.••..•.• 611: can.ton eou.to .......... • ........ . 67 Movt\1 Hol'joko C<>l~ 151. llonm U. Endowtnonl AuociAUon .•• 611. Slllll LouiO IJnlvtrslty . · 70. St.C. Uni'Mrsi!y ol'lllew Yottt' ....... 71. - lnllllulo ol Technology .•.. 12. Bowdoin ~ . ... . . · 73• SrrtcuM U\'-\ty.. .. . .. • .. . .. ... 74. ~r of tho N\'; Church. . . . . . .. 75. UIIMtolty o1 Ml&ml .. .. .. . .. . .. . 70 Rurg.,. !Jntvw'\Y n lJ.niMf'urr ol NoM ~1\a--ChAPOI Hlll 76. E-om ColleQo • .. .. .. . .. .. . . ..... 79 Moun! S<nao Sc:hQol of -c•no 80 Trlni!y Col. (Conn I ... S122.105,ooo 111.771.000 11i.SI3,000 11i.41i,OOO IIS.0/6.000 1».~.000 100,524 000 68.272.000 100.74i.OOO 8:>.~.000 not rt?Qrted 45.8960oo not reported Sll'.616.0oo not reponed .rr..056.ooo 76.3117 000 73.!i9o.ooo 1H91 000· 72.448:000 7S.547,0011 not \ported . 72:5o2.090 8:>,4112.000 &4.196.000 67 4\116 oOO 111 a;g ooo· 60.127.000 not ntpOrted .su!i9ooo $145:633.000 143.551.QCO 14!.312,000 140.121,000 139.072.0011 12\I;I:JII.OOO 125,?SI.OOO 113.073.0011· 112.075.000 i01!.736.oo0 107.160.000 104.316000 104.188.000 97 675;000 97.158.o00 96,988,000 96.757.000 95.134.000 114921.000 g2,620.000 91, 16o.OO\l 89 6~7000 89.636.000 119.' 98.000 80.~.000 eo 5•5.000 79~000 75,818.000 7HIO.OOO 7-t.107]XJO 111 Occtdtnlal Col• w.u• 000 73.262.000 112 Ham•ilon ~ (N v 1 .6/l atJ 000 73261 ooo 13 Unnoersd)' ot ~~lh•ngton r.8 602 000 72·9o9 000 .. ~I'IW<If .. ty o1 WIKQnSifl Sop~ ., GO 010.000' 10937 000 1!5 CoJVala UniVOIItltty' .. .. . . . .. ~.277.001! eii.7B~.ooo 811. UnMirolly or MllnOit fl>unaa!lon·. ~9.532.000 68'151.oo0 87. Union College (N.Y.)· not reported 68;043,000 88 ~~tt9_war.tern Un~'tllr\ty . . all. 8UIIIIr Ufti\'II'IIIV ...... , ........... . go Woreuret P.olyt~hnle lnsritute Ill ·Colo<ado Collogt . . . . . 112. Whttman Con• ................... . 93 Rodelilfo Col• ~ 8u'-1tnell Un1vtfii1Y ~- Univ•rsity ol the· South 95. Hampton Univttlity .......... . 97 P~~gl)t1Fd1~ Un've\'ry • ~ Sant• ClAra tJmvors•ty . . ~ Ctar~onl McMenn1 CoUeg• 100 Havet1ord Cora.ge 52 0011000 &i.l8l.OOO !5.148 000 51.!JQ1.000 ».3011,000 39\9230oo· 12.1Q4:Cl0(1 18.88o<.OOO 40.129,000 !>3 74V 000 45.J18 000 UM7000 .67 1u ooo· 64.58\5.000 'SH58IXIO euu.ooo 63:603.000 SHIGOOO 62.214.000 60.654 000 58.7!15.000 55 !165000 5&573.000 55.241 000 50927000 1 ~ of July.Jt 1 015 ·NOw 1'.0.. inc:tudiNI Cftt·- IW lfttl•t~<~IJOM pNtH;.,_ilnt.., a...compvlii,.,.C*'Or\'tna~ -, .... --liOn oiC.O.itlll ..... - ........... 011 ..... based upon research by Chronicle of liigher Education ·

. CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 .c +- E (/\) ro u u <lJ \~~ { .0 <lJ lk: >- .0 0 +- 0 .c a. Di,rector of Security Cliff Wood describes the functioning of the new security phone system. Emergency Phones Installed ; Prompt Security Promised By JON COHN Ifyau haven't already noticed all over the campus there are new white phones labeled \Emergency Only\. The welcomed new system features quick response security in case of emergencies. The new system is simple. The phones only need to be lifted off their cradle. This then alerts the Communications Operator at the Security and Safety Department by projecting the code number of the phone onto a screen. The operator will then immediately notify campus officers to the scene, where the phone can be deactivated only by being placed back onto the receiver. The important thing is that no voice communication is necessary to activate the phone. The school security has been trying to get this system into operation for eleven years,\ says security director Clifford Wood. The new IBX system recently installed provided the school with a chance to combine the systems and save money. \We also received cooperation from women's organizations at Union as well as from the student Forwn, to make this program possible, \ said Mr. Wood. Most Importantly students shmlld realize that if the phone is activated without there being a real emergency, officers could be taken away from a real emergency somewhere else. When used right, the system is beneficial for all. EMERGENCY PHONES EXTERIOR HOTLINE: 27 North Terrace Lane SE Corner Arts Building East Side Achilles Rink near Whirmle Bridl!e East Side Bailey Hall Corner South College (at South Terrace Lane & South Lane) Northeast corner of Davidson Southwest corner of Humanities :Northeast corner of Social Science Behind Placement Bldg. No. 30 INTERIOR HOTLINE: Art Bldg. Photo Lab, Rm. 202 Schaffer Library Basement Schaffer Library Mezzanine Schaffer Library 3rd Floor Steinmetz- 1st. Floor on wall outside computer center. New Telecommunications System Adds Flexibility, Reduces Costs By ELIZABETH WRIGHT ln 1984, a committee was assembled in order to in- vestigate whether or not there was a need for a new telecommtmications network on campus. The committee, made up of administrators, faculty, students, staff, and a cansulting firm, issued a formal request for proposals to a number of qualified vendors in the fall af 1984. The responses were reviewed and evaiuated and in January, 1986, the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees accepted the proposal from tbe NYNEX corporation. Installation began in late January, 1986, and was completed on August 8, 1986. Chairman of the Union ·College Board of Trustees, William Bums, is also the Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of NYNEX. When asked if this fact affected Union's choice, Diane Winkler, Telecommunications Manager, said, ''for obvious, reasons, NYNEX worked very hard to get the bid. However, Union got what they wanted from NYNEX.\ The committee chose to purchase an integrated voice- . data telecommunications system and also an independent yet parallel data network between the 14 college-owned and operated residence halls and the DEC Vax cluster in the computer center. The new system has several advantages over the old centrex system. First, the system is owned and operated by the college, thereby providing protection for students against rate and tariff increases. Second, the system is adaptable to new technologies because of the very nature of the system. Third, it is also more efficient in that it ensures integrity with the system redundacy and reliability of campus communications. Fourth, a human-computer interface terminal facilitates campus moves, adds, changes, and system diagnostics. Fifth, the new system provides office and faculty persannel with impraved means to control costs, as well as to expand. Students also benefit from the modern system. Each dorm room (670 of them) is provided with a telephone set. Unlimited on-campus 4-digit dialing and local calling are features similar to the old system. There are three added canveniences with the new system: call- waiting, abbreviated dialing, and 3- and 7-way conference calling. Union's Board of Trustees Chairman is also Vice President of NYNEX, in- stallers of the new telephone system ... The process by which long distance calls are made is also new. Students have the option of signing up with AT&T thrJW.gh· the school or sign!9g.,up.OWftb one of the <:!Uler- ~several long- distance carriers. According to Winkler, 1,200 students signed up with AT&T out of 1,400 students living 011 campus. She also pointed out that the school is giving a 50 percent discount off day rates from between 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. As of September 26, 1986, the regular rates will change from 35 percent to 25 percent from 5 p.m. to 11 p.m. and 60 percent to 50 percent from 11 p.m. to 8 a.m. The Union 50 percent discount also applies 011 the weekends and holidays. In order to make long- distance calls, students are issued a confidential 7-digit authorization code. Sub- sequently, each student receives a bill for his-her long distance phone calls. Students also have the convenient method of paying at the Cashier's Office in the Administration Building. The billing date is the first of the month. One feature not offered, according to Winkler, is the cross-state service. end and a ml>dular jack on the other. This equipment win be available for purchase in the · bookstore. Hapefully, this system will be a great con- venience to students and an improvement over the previous system. In addition to the new phones and expanded computer system, there are 'emergency' ph(!mes throughout campus and also 'campus only dialing' phones in academic buildings and dormitories (See related article p. 2 ) The emergency phones are in red telephone boxes outdoors in nine places and white box:es indoors in five places. When the handset is lifted the security office is inunediately notified! and an officer is sent to that phone box. This system, if used properly, will work to the benefit of the entire campus. When asked if the system is working properly, Winkler replied, \Well so far.\ · Being now, though, it has had its share of pr()blems sucb as · faulty equipment, etc. wbich will work themselves out in the near future. CAMPUS ()NLY PHONES Academic Bldgs. Bailey Hall 3rd floor outside rm. 304 S&E Center- 3rd floor North, outside rm. N310 S&E Center- 2nd floor South, outside rm. S218 S&E Center- 3rd floor South, outside rm. S:126 S&E Center- Basement South in Room S004 (lab) Art Bldg. Cat Lab Art Bldg. 1st floor, outside rm. 111 Art Bldg. 2nd floor, outside rm. 208 Art Bldg. 3rd. floor, outside rm. 318 (top of stairs) Social Sciences Bldg. Hallway near SS016 Library- All night study Humanities Bldg., CHUC room. Dormitories Why Should A Student Come to Union? In order to gain access to the Vax system, students must obtain an account by filling out an application form and paying a small fee at the Office of Cumputer Services. The system will allow 750 dorm rooms and 100 other terminals to compete for the 350 ports on the VAX cluster. A student must have a standard RS232 21-pin com- munication port as well as a \Mod Tap\ converter- a device with an RS232 connection on one Hickok House, main entrance Davidson, near rm. 134 Davidson, near rm. 150 Fox, in rom. 134 next to 137 Fox, outside rm. 157 President Morris Reviews liberal Arts and General Education South Colltlge, near entrance nn. 158 By DA VIDGULLIVER Editor's note: In this second and final installment, President Morris explains how his per- S4tnality affects his operation of the college. In addition, be answers the crucial question of why someone should come to Union. DG: What elements of your character and background influence you most strongly and in what ways is this apparent in your direction of Union? PM: When I first came to the United States I became in- volved with Colgate and there I learned about the nature of the American liberal arts system. I had been trained in the British system, so the American system was new and very ex- citing. I became convinced the liberal arts college tradition was something quite unique and very important. Later, I came back to Colgate as a full time instructor. I felt that this was an important step in my personal life. That commitment shaped my beliefs. It was, in a way, a personal discovery of the value of the tradition of the liberal arts. DG: You mentioned the British system. How is it dif- ferent? PM: The general British system tends to be specialized; they specialize in degree work at a very young age. They basically begin in high school with three subjects, then narrow further. A bachelor's degree in Britain is highly UN ION COLLEGE 1 nstitute of Administrative and Management ADMINISTRATIVE AND,SNO~t4f?ERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM TOP 1 c: ·''Moral Issues in ttl& Ra'tlooi1'l9 of care tor the CriticaUy» · ... tit\ ,., OATS' Thursday, Srtptemner 25 at ;J~. 45 ··''' ., · · ·~.,.,,.,.,, .'r,,, ... ,~:·;i{ecirte··'t··· · ··· · ,,, PbACiil ~toomJu, &,;ui~Y H~n,,Yn~·~L .. ,., ...... ,. ~c.. . .. · .. Y.~::~::r .. -:::.- . , ... _, - : .. , _. · · =:·:: ~':'-·'}~t:;:~:W~f:,:~--:- .. ~'t::~~==>::- /~l:~r~ :· :.:~::.:.:;;.:::--:~~tr~~::·.t~:=·: .. :::-.· ~.:: .. ~ ..;:;~ :- · -==~;~ .• :;~::·::~,:==· ·:-:=·s.:~;·~~i~:.:-:-w·~ :~x~·~~~ ···W.=~:·i:;~ .. ---~.::;.~:: _.,, -:~,: ... ::~ ·=\N ..... • .. _=:~··=-;J.~::;:·\';:· ,.- .. -;:_.-- ... ·<:::~/;~~:;.;.;: .. _ .=-·=:==.~·- .. =.;-~-'\ =-=~--...,_: specialized and highly con- centrated... there are some exceptions, though. Here, liberal arts starts with breadth and slowly narrows. Continued on page 3 Webster, rm. 130 North College, outside rm. 130, against wall, rm. 108 Richmond area 126, outside nn. 121 West College, outside rm. 111. Value l?{ 100 Enduwments on June 30, 1985 Maltllll. ...... llritt ....... 1 ... ·- .... ,._ .111M )1. 1114 Jue 31.1taS ..... - ....... ,., 1614 Jufte lO, 1hl I. Un-..ty ol To><&S Syllem ' S2.213,3D2.000 S2.!127.ZOO.OOO 51. Wako Fo<nt u\'-\IY· . .......... SI22.1J05.000 $145.633.000 2. Hantard Uruvet~~ly ..••....•... 2.<180,300,000 2.6!14.600,000 52. PcmonaCouooo. 1,.771.000 143 551.000 3. Pnncelon Univomty .... . .... 1,2!17,1100.000 1.519.240.000 63. Ranueleer Poty1edtOIC IMtltuCO. . • . . 119.513.000 141 372.000 .. v• UniVftlity . • . . • . • . . . . • . . . • • . 1,060.870.000 1.3011.690.000 S4 Tui&MI Umwfllty ....... IIS.<U.ooo 1<10. I 21 .000 5. Slanlord Unlv81ily ' . . . . . . . . . 943.illl6.000 1.0113.890.000 55. GeoiQOIO- UnW...ty ... 115.076.000 139.072.000 8. Columbia UniWOI»>Iy ..•. 855.221.000 978.640.000 SG. Leh111h un....,,..ty ....... ....... 99.955.000 12!1.1 08.000 7 Muaachusolts k\lt. of T&ennolOgy 645.575.000 770.167000 51 Lliddlebury College !00.524000 125191 000 8. Umwr~o~ty of CA!itorm& .... 55&.411,000 716.!109.000 SG. Ul•l'I'UO Collolle · · · · · · · · · · · · · 9827t000 113.073 000. 9. UntVtiSitw' of Ch.cago ..... 517.100.000 640.800.000 59 Untvlnlt;' of NabrUka 100.749000 112 075.000 10 WulunQIOft u ....... ly (t.lo I .(7<1 6&1 000 622 076 000 60 Thomu J.ff~ UnFVertity 65.2&9000 101!.738 000 II. Rica Un-ty .. 402.156.000 570.678.000 61 Branc1e11 Un1vemty flOt rltP(lrted 107.160000 12. URIYOfl&ty of Roc.nntar >;& 276.000 567 696000 82 Botlton UmVGt'S<IfY 85 696000 oOA 31 e ooo 11 Northwqtern UNV8f'Sit\' 1 449.784.000 552.ZOI.OOO 63. Untvtrurv of floJwja ...... ' ... not roporuo 104.188.000 14. Emory UntwfSity I •• 457.SJO.OOO 635.825.000 114 Tufta Unlvt~ntty 58616000 97 675 000 15. Cornoll Un.i'velt.lty 417 671 000 518.956000 65. Wodllngton Slate UnnMt'Sity . not r1par11d 97 156 000 18. New 'forM UntVers•tv ' :184.000.000 450.706.000 Ga. C.vltton Col!Gge 75056.000 96.988.000 17 Unw.r~o~ty of Pann~tv•n•a :!29 436.000 4J7 004 000 67 Younl HolyOke College 76 J9H)00 96 1'57 000 16 John& Hoptlna Umvaruty 304 029000 393.129.000 liS Kanaa:t U Endowment AuOCUI.IMln 73.990000 95134000 19. Rockef_.ter UnMar:uty .. 32ll.~I.OOO 391.241.000 69 Sa.nt lDY!a UnNflt&&ly 73 <491·000 i4 921000 20 Conmoutll College 319 DHOOO 396.021.000 ro. Sleto u-..~y ot Now Vorll' . 12.448000 92 620 000 21 Vandolblll UoM ... ty .. 261.8&1 OCJ 318.322.000 71. Rochelter ln1tttute of TKhno~y. . . 75.r.47.000 91.160.000 22 Un~WB~ty of Notre DIIM 2S4~.000 306~.000 72 llowdOin ColloQO IWI fOI)(Itre<l 89 sg,1 ooo 23 C1ldornia lnat.ltute of TechnoloQy 1 2:13.700.000 284300.000 73 SyracuM U~ty 72 502000 69 638000 24 Un1w~ty of SOutMm C.t,llfomaa 2:13.8211.000 267.602.000 74 Acaa.my ol 1M Ncrw Chutcn 55.4~2()()() 89.198000 25 Untver~ty of VIrginia 211.667 000 256An.ooo 75 Unt.,.nHy of Mlanu 1 6o&.l~ooo BOSS. 000 28 Ouk41 Umwrscty Ul5 679.000 2!;2.071.0Q0 76 RulgHI UntYer'.uty 61496000 80$1$000 v G&H Wdlem Re..,.,_ UftiVORJty 189201.000 24-4 120 QOO n Unl\#lnltpo of Harth C&r01•1\A-C11apel H11t 59 659000 79 902 000 28 SoutMJn NathodlM Unavetslty l 174.225.000 2:13.659.000 76 e\\\\'\ Collo!lO .. 60.12'1.()()() 75.616000 211 Sm1tn Co&MQD 111 !08.000 222.378.000 79 Mounl SU1u SGnocf at Mect•c•ne nol reportod 74 T70 000 30 Brown Untvaf'l•ty 175200000 222.300.000 80 Tllmly Collolle (Conn I 59.69'l000 74.107 000 31 Urnvwr111y ol O.lawat• 176 868.000 212.660 000 e1 Occtd<lnlal eo·~· 159 .,.000 73262000 31 W.fl .. le'p' ~Jegtl 1(,{3 223 000 205000 000 82 Ham1lton CoUe...:e {N V • 6061JOOO 73 161 000 33 um ... er~ly of Ntch•gan 165 635.000 203 675.000 83 Unrv.rllty of Was.tungton r,e 602·000 72 909 000 34 WtiUams coueoe 164133 000 I !19 996 000 64 Unrv..,suy of Wltc.e>ns•n Svstom 60070000 70 937 000 35 Carrn~o•• Ufll{on Un1var31ty 162~000 193.4!1/l 000 as Colgate Um~rs~ty 1 ~ 27~·000 69 186 000 36 W.cl•yan Uruvers1ry 156 847 000 168.675 000 68 Uni'V'tntty of Hflnota FoundeUon 49 532·000 68 151 000 37 Untvtt&lty 01 M1nneso1a nol .reported 11)\_288000 .. union College ( N. Y .1 · not reported 68,043,000 aa. Bo~lor UnMrl•lr ' . . . . ..... 1!>8.772 000 175.611.000 87. 39 Gnnnoll Cl>llego 1289MOOO 17!053 000 68 Southwe:.lern lJniVGI$1fy sz ooaooo 61 314-000 oiO Swar1hmort coneoa 143~000 17H29.000 &i. llulltr Un••or&~tv ' .. , . , . . . .... 61,781.000 Go& sas ooo 41 Untversity ol Clnc•nnau 145 010 000 169 387 000 00 ·worcester Polytechntc lnslllutt 55.148000 6H56000 42 Gttorge Wa&tlH'IQIOn UniVIilrlfty 134 795 000 169 HI< 000 91 Colorado Coii-'JI SUOt.IJ.:Xl 63 9U 000 43 Loyola una ... .,s•ly of Ch1c.ago lOS 074 000 169 009 000 92 Whllman COU!!QA 53 306.000 63603.000 « Amna••• College .132 3<)9 000 168 t3• 000 93 Rad~liff1 C<.llec.l~ as oz:~ooo 62 516 000 <t5 OhiO Stat• um .. •r~ry 12t 44<1 000 167 ZBUX>O !14 Bucltl\411 Umv-.ra•ty S2.19<()()() 62.21..000 4G Unr.erstty at Richmond 127 134.000 162.7~0.000 95 Unl't'ersuy of lhe Soulh 4<1.98~000 60.65<1 000 47 Una ... eraity af Pnt.tJurgh 130 445.000 160.463 000 96. Ham pion Umvtrlltv. 40.!2'9()()() 58.7!!5 000 4G Va.uar Colltge 126 0<10 001) 156100.000 ~7 Pec:>PHdlne Un1VIrtlly • 53 749000 55 965 000 •ti Baylor COIIt!Qe ol Mtdtc.me !06 844 000 15J l41 000 98 Santa Clar• Umv..-s•ty 45 326000 %673.000 50 a.r .. Co.lklge 119832000 1!.0 16! 000 911 Claremont M~K•nna Cotlego (4.!J&7000 55 241 000 100 liavertotd Colbge not teported [>4 921000 t Ae ol AuguM !t . ... 1 As of Yay 31. 1115 I~~ &eptem~ J0 1186 1 \* of Julr )I totS .... facle I~ N lCQ IQO 1t11!t1MfOM .pat't~tpllltng In lho C~Vfii,.,..Hf'OfmltKD gcu-ay br tho ~ A.uoc .. ucn Ct1 Cot .. and Un....,.ry tki~~AeU~ Offl~o based upon research by Chronicle of Higher Education I I l i v I 1.. '· ~ ·' I \ ' I j \ ,1, i 1 l

CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 Page3 College PlanS lo Enforce Stricter Regulation On Rush Continued from page 1 \This will encourage students to make better decisions~'' Because of the formal rush, the houses will not be able to rely on parties to get people to have fun and be interested in the 'house. According to Mike Roban, \The fraternities will have to be more creative in their rush· func- tions.\ The basic motivation behind this policy is twofold. The first voint is that, b~cause the drinking age is 21, the :liability insurance for fratemities on tap, and also for the :scbo()l it- self, is quite high. NClw that . there are enforced dry functions the cost to insure tllem will decrease. A lot of people in the fraternities suppoit this because it will allow them to rechannel funds int() other activities. The other- is that, . says Dean Massa, \Sillce Unton · College is the Mother of Vice-President D'Andrea sp~aks on goals of the new Genera• Education program. Liberal Learning Changes Promote Continuity Fraternities, it is time to take a · hand in them and give some structure to the rush.'' Needless to say, the dry tush has not received universal support. Some h,ouses may find tbat having people that come to the house just to party is m~t a problem or they may not like the way it impinges on their activities. Even freshmen can avoid the formal rush if they choose but that is not a good idea. Dan Hirsch, co-rush chainnan of Delta Chi, said, \Sure you may not like formal rush but. now you have an op- portWlity to See a house when they're not partying so you should take it.\ · · Many people agree with the administration's View on what the effects of the policy might be but others are .not ~o sure. The policy will not affect .every house in the same way. The opinion of Bernstein is: \We can .only speculate on the way things will work out because it iS -new.'' According to Dean Massa the IFC might further enhance the structure of the rush for next year if things work out well now. He also adds that, \Changes CQme over time.'' Last year's dry rush policy was just a step on the way to this year's structured dry rush and next year it might expand some more. 1- Q) .D ::> 1- <!l :2 > ro 0 >- .0 E 0 .c: 0. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola comments on Delta Upsilon's situation. Duffy Provides Fraternity View; 'Mo;mmola Com,rnents on Future · Continued from page 1 people showed up, but we didn't go down campus and invite. them. When security arrived they only told us to quiet down, not to close down . the party. When Dean Massa j arrived, I was out in front keeping people out. He (Massa) came in, told us· to close it down, a,nd it was empty in 15 minutes.\ Although the party was an infraction of college policy, Mammola said that it was the latest in \a long history· of things that have gone wrong.\ One contention by the frater- nity, however, is that 22 of its 30 members are sophomores and as such are not directly responsible for past events. However, Mammola replied, ''When you enter an organization you should know its history.\ Mammola said, \I would prefer not to have to kick anybody out ever, but there may be a time when one has .to.\ He added that the \basis for this action is the fact that they were clearly warned as to the consequences.\ He also reiterated that the current ''housing shortage on campus is not an issue and has not been discussed in any way, shape or form,\ nor has there been any discussion about the fraternities and sorority that currently lack housing. Continued frompag~ 1 introductory courses so that they encompass a wider ,range a senior writing ex[:Mlrience. In addition, the subcollllcil has Morris Explains Ideas on Liberal L·earning of material. · Another aspect the ad~ ministr~tion iS examining deals with methods that the faculty can use . ~o that · the · writing capability· of the students· may be significantly improved. According to a report from February 1985 from the Integrity in the College Curriculum: A Report .to the Academic Community, \Writing ~as an undergraduate experience, as an exploration of both commuhication and Style, is widely neglected.\ A sub- coUncil on writing, consisting of six professors, has picked up on this by composing a report with reconunendations to promote writing in Union's curriculum. Although this would not mean new and different courses in writing, students would have to take a · nwnber of courses already in existence that entail a substantial amount of writing. Just as categories A, B, C, D, E, and F exist, so may category W for writing. The recommendations, in general, are to succeSsfully complete . a Freshman Preceptorial, six· units of designate.d writing courses, and · asked for a \writing ooard,\ which would provid~ students with a more formal in:3titlltion for guidc~mce in wri~ing:. · Four '1actiltY meiUDel\S and' two students are presently reviewing'the pro]>osed<!banges at designated panel dis~ussions. Associate ;Profes;Sor of Mathematics William :Zmeker ·is the chairman of thle com- mittee, and President df the StUdent Government Steven Moss is a student represen- · tative. . - Student input is appret!iated; however, professors will for- mally vote on these petoposed modifications Novem~1· 5. Dr. D'Andrea does :see tne possibility that less tlelllanding writing requirements: might affect the classes n()w- 91 Union College. Even if these manges go through, the first odass it could affect in its entir-ety would be' Union's class of 19191. . The Association of kmErican . Colleges . reported on colleges today, \Electives ue heing. used to fatten majOors and diminish breadth. It i:s as if rio one cared,. so long as the store stays ·open.'' Union i:s repon• ding to that concern. Continued from page 2 Your specialization is at post- graduate level. 00: This is one I've wanted to ask you: why should a student come to Union? What does Union in particular have to offer? PM: Union has several things that are .important to offer. First of all is a strong academic community. I also think it has a strong student community. That's one feature that I'm very aware of. The sense of community is its hallmark and is very important. It goes without saying that a student will get a first class education. The depth and breadth of courses is another strong a&pect. I ·think that now the facilities are as good as most and we have quality backup facilities and support systems. One very attractive feature is the quality of the academic program and the ·setting in which it functions-the facilities and the community, the strong student and academic com- munity. It is the kind of place where the faculty is still con- cerned about students... the student has a place, which leads to another feature. One has the time and space to think about what one wants to do. That's the. str~ngth ·of a liberal arts program. It allow.s quite a breadth of possiqilities. You may start in one area but may not stay there. Another interesting feature is that the technical does run alongside of liberal arts, which is important for both sides. It's important for us to be aware of the implications. and to grow on the basis of history. That's what I meant when I said it should not be parrot-like. We should not learn and simply transmit. Rather, we should learn to use what we have to meet new. conditions and new situations. Education has to help us grow. Growth means not only acceptance of new traditions but assimilation of tradition, which enables ,us to adapt to a fundamentally new world. What I mean when I say that the most important issue is coherence is the need for us to grasp the fact that our students have to have some kind of clear guide through the General Education Curriculum. Smorgasbords don't do this. General Education should have a well-definedc intellectual purpose. DG: And you think that the proposed changes in the Liberaf Learning program will achieve DG: In your convocation address, that the criticism of the Secretary of Education of colleges in general is that \we no longer have a value system which we transmit to our students through the curriculum'' and reflects upon the \coherence to be found within the general education program.\ You replied that instead what is lacking is \a clear intellectual view of what we are about as a college.\ Firstly, is a college responsible for transmitting a value system, and, if so, does it do so?' Secondly, if the problem is having a clear view of what we are about, what is Union about? · this? PM: In answer to your question does it do so, tbe Secretary believes that it should, that general education should transmit the values of • western civilization. My idea would be that cer- tainly it should give a good grounding. in the basic elements of the history of the western world. But I also think that it should give some indication of the setting of the values. It is not . simply a matter of the tran- smitting values. A good general education should be in its intent one which gives us our history btit also helps us to understand PM: Yes, I think that the · revision of the system will do this. DG: I'll end this up with what I said before: What ate we about? PM: Union is this strong American tradition of in- dependent liberal arts colleges. I believe that defines our nature and what we are about. Independence is important, and liberal arts are important. J think we are concerned with tht depth along with the breadth of understanding. Union is a little different in that engineering always colors us and that I find exciting and challenging , too, because it brings in this side of con- temporary culture that we cannot ignore. A Centennial Celebration Homecoming '86 Parade Meeting - Thursday, September 25, 4:30 p.m. in SS016 Final General Meeting - Monday, September 29, 4:30p.m. in SSOl6. Pizza and soda at this meeting! We hope to see everyone who attended the first meeting as well as any interested newcomers!

H ll t\ H I t L :r I• l· j,'• \ \ I ') 1 :I . I 'l ,. ! i.: \ ~. i { I.. w .c ::> I.. (!) E > 10 D >- .c 0 .,_ 0 .t: a. CONCORDIENSIS, September 25. 1986 Page3 College Plans to Enforce Stricter Regulation On Rush Continued from page 1 \This will encourage students to make better decisions.\ Because of the formal rush, the houses will not be able to rely on fJarties to get people to have fun and be interested in the house. According to Mike Roban, \The fraternities will have to be more creative in their rush func- tions.\ The basic motivation behind this policy is twofold. The first point is that, because the drinking age is 21, the liability insurance for fraternities on tap, and also for the school it· self, is quite high. Now that there are enforced dry functions the cost to insure them will decrease. A lot of people in the fraternities support this because it will allow them to rechannel funds into other activities. The other is that, says Dean Massa, ''Since Union College is the Mother of Vice-President D'Andrea speaks on goals of the new General Education program. Liberal Learning Cha,nges Promote Continuity Fraternities, it is time to take a hand in them and give some structure to the rush.\ Needless to say, the dry rush has not received universal support. Some houses may find that haviNg people that come to the house just to party is not a problem or they may not like the way it impinges on their activities. Even freshmen can avCJid the formal rush if they chmse but that is not a good idea. Dan Hirsch, co-rush chairman of Delta Chi, said, \S11re you may not like formal rush but now you have an op- portunity to see a house when they're not partying so you sho11ld take it.\ Many people agree with the administration's view on what the effects of the policy might be but others are not so sure. The policy will not affect every hollSe in the same way. The opinion of Bernstein is: \We can only speculate on the way thiJJgs will work out because it is new.\ According to Dean Massa the IFC might further enhance the structure of the rush. for next year if things work out well now. He also adds that, \Cllanges come over time.\ Last year's dry rush policy was just a step on the way to this year's structured dry rush and next year it might expand some more. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola comments on Delta Upsilon's situation. Duffy Provides Fraternity View; M,ammola Comments on Future Continued from page 1 people showed up, llut we didn't go down campus and invite them. When security arrived they only told us t() quiet down, not to close down the party. When Dean Massa arrived, I was out in front ketping people out. He (Massa) c2me in, told us to close it down, and it was empty in 15 minutes.\ Although. the party was an infraction of college policy, Marnmola said that it was the latest in \a long history\ of things that have gone wrong.'' One contention by the frater- nity, however. is that 22 of its 30 members are sophomores and as such are n()t directly responsible for past events. HDwever, Marnmola replied, ''When you enter an organization you should know its history.'' Marnrnola said, \I would prefer not to have to kick anybody out ever, but there may be a time when one has to.\ He added that the \basis for this action is the fact that tlley were clearly warned as to the consequences.\ lie also reiterated that the current \housing shortage on campus is not an issue and has not been discussed in any way, shape or form,\ nor has there lleen any discussion about the fraternities and sorority that C'UI'rently lack housing. .. OJ .0 ;:, .. (!) \0 > rc D >- .0 0 .... 0 .I: a. Continued from page 1 introductory courses so that they encompass a wider range of material. a senior writing experience. In addition, the subcouncil has asked for a \writing board,\ which would provide students with a more formal institution for guidance in writing. Morris Explains Ideas on Liberal Learning Another aspect the ad- ministration is examining deals with methods that the faculty can use so that the writing capability of the students may be significantly improved. According to a report from February 1985 from the Integrity In the College Curriculum: A Report to the Academic Community, ''Writing as an undergraduate experience, as an exploration of both commuhication and style, is widely neglected.\ A sub- council on writing, consisting of six: professors, has picked up on this by composing a report with recommendations to promote writing in Union's curriculwn. Although this would not mean new and different courses in writing, students would have to take a number of courses already in existence that entail a substantial amount of writing. Just as categories A, B, C, D, E, and F exist, so may category W for writing. The recommendations, in general, are to successfully complete a Freshman Preceptorial, six units of designate_d writing courses, and Four faculty members and two students are presently reviewing the proposed changes at designated panel discussions. Associate Professor of Mathematics William Zwjcker is the chairman of the com- mittee, and President of the Student Government Steven Moss is a student represen- tative. Student input is appreciated; however, professors will for- mally vote on these proposed modifications November 5. Dr. D'Andrea does see the possibility that less demanding writing requirements might affect the classes now in Union College. Even if these changes go through, the first class it could affect in its entirety would be Union's class of 1991. The Association of American Colleges reported on colleges today, \Electives are being used to fatten m'ajors and diminish breadth. It is as if no one cared, so long as the store stays open.\ Union is respon- ding to that concern. Continued from page 2 Yollr specialization is at post- graduate level. DG: This is one I've wanted to ask you: why should a student come to Union? What does Union in particular have to offer? PM: Union has several things that are important to offer. First of all is a strong academic community. I also think it has a strong student community. That's one feature that I'm very aware of. The sense of community is its hallmark and is very important. It goes without saying that a student will get a first class education. The depth and breadth of courses is another strong aspect. I think that now the facilities are as good as most and we have quality backup facilities and support systems. One very attractive feature is the quality of the academic program and the setting in which it functions-the facilities and the community, the strong student and academic com- mUility. It is the kind of place where the faculty is still con- cerned about students... the student has a place, which leads to another feature. One has the time and space to think about what one wants to do. That's the strength of a liberal arts program. It allows quite a breadth of possibilities. You may start in one area but may not stay there. Another interesting feature is that the technical does run alongside of liberal arts, which is important for both sides. It's important for us to be aware of the implications. DG: In your convocation address, that the criticism of the Secretary of Ed11cation of colleges in general is that \we no longer have a value system which we transmit to our students through the curriculum\ and reflects upon the \coherence to be found within the general education program.\ You rEplied that instead what is lac~ing is \a clear intellectual view of what we are about as a college.\ Firstly; is a college responsible for transmitting a value system, and, if so, d()es it do so? Secondly, if the J)roblem is having a clear view of what we are about, what is Union about? PM: In answer to your question does it do so, the Secretary believes that it should, that general education should transmit the values of ·western civilization. My idea would be that cer- tainly it should give a good grounding in the basic elements of the history of the western world. But I also think that it should give some indication of the settingofthe values. It is not simply a matter of the tran· smitting values. A g()od general education should be in its intent one which gives us our history but also helps us t() understand and to grow on the basis of i:listory. That's what I meant when I said it should not be parrot-like. We should not learn and simply transmit. Rather, we should learn to use what we have to meet new conditions and new situations. Education has to help us grow. Growth means not only acceptance of new traditions but assimilation of tradition, which enables , us to aclapt to a fundamentally new world. What I mean when I say that t:he most important issue is eollerence is the need for us to grasp the fact that our students have to have some kind of clear gllide through the General Education Curricul urn. Smorgasbords don't do this. General Education should have a well-defined intellectual purpose. DG: And you think that the proposed changes in the Liberal Learning program will achieve tllis? PM: Yes, I think that the revision of the system will do tllis. DG: I'll end this up with what I ~aid before: What are we a.bcmt? PM: Union is this strong American tradition of in· dependent liberal arts colleges. I btlieve that defines our nature and what we are about. Independence is important, and liberal arts are important. J think we are concerned with tht depth along with the breadth of Ullderstanding. Union is a little different in that engineering always colors tt.s and that I find exciting and challenging , too, because it b-rings in this side of con- temporary culture that we c.annot ignore. A Centennial Celebration Homecoming '86 Parade Meeti r:\9 - Thursday, September 25, 4:30 p.m. in SSOl6 Final General Meeting - Monday, September 29, 4:30p.m. in SS~l6. Pizza and soda a) this meeting! We hope to see everyone who attended the first meeting as well as any interested 11ewcomers! J ' ••• • ' • I ' : • • ' ' t ' • • • . - ' . ' I

Page4 CQNCORDIENSIS, Septe.mber 25, 1986 .c: :!::: E t/) I'll u u <IJ ..0 <IJ a:: >. .0 ~ 0 .c: Q. New Associate Dean of Faculty, T&rry Weiner, describes the responsibility of his position. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenureability of Michael Redko, Associate Professor of Engineering/Computer Science. All members of the college community wishing to co11tribute oral or written testimony concerning Professor Redko's teachin9, sdlolarship, or college • service are encouraged to corn municate in writing or tG contact Dean Edward Craig (Electrical Engineering, Professor Tom Jewell (Civil Engineering), Professor Jay Newman (Physics), or Professor Tom Kerscllner (Economics), chairman. Friday, September 2.6: \T.G.LF.\ The Grand Finale 5:00p.m. Center City Arena Downtown Schenectady Just across State Stre~t from Caflal Square and Proctor's TheCltre. Music By: ''The Students\ witll reck of the 60's, TO's and SO's. Sl.OO.admission For more info call 374·2499 must be 21 or older 382-5109 Weiner Appointed Associate Dean of Faculty · Sees Lack of Outside lntellettuallnterest By LORI LEON because they know the rn«)si. · tellectual life outside of the important thing is to teach •llJld . · ·classroom, with students beblg This past JWle, Terry .S. teach well.\ Keeping m tc;~llcb too wrapped up in their own Weiner, former chairman ofthe with the faculty is-import~t, lives. \Union students wor~ sociology department, was and this lfuk that Dean Weiner hard, but they need more of an appointed Associate Dean of represents is vital to botll the independent intellect.ual life.,. Faculty, replacing Ilene professors and to ad- We as administrators have to Kaplan, who had held that · ministration in •maintaining think about what we can do to position for five years. While · tbat basic line of co:m- · promote that.\ He does not see Professor Martha ·Huggins is munication. On a more personal muchactive interest in the claily the new sociology department level, Dean Weiner is sorne()ne wo.rld events, which disturbs chairperson and Professor to whom the factilty can ·V.:oice him. ThoUgh .he realizes that it Kaplan has returned to teaching their opinions, and somet()ne · ;iS not fair to com~re this era full time, Dean Weiner is now they can talk with inform«ilJy.. with his \Vietnam' high school faced with many challenges, The Associate Dean of and college years~ the world one being the new General Faculty is also in charge of problems today are ''probably Education program, a revision emergency faculty hiring · so . more compelling'' and. a ~trong of what we know as the Liberal that the college can handle . need for awareness and genuine Learning aspect . of our · increased enrollment in concern for our world· exists. curriculum. An all campus courses. (This does not ccver . Another point that Dean Weiner notice will be posted today, the permanent hiring that is urges students to consider today Thursday, September 25., in- done on a slower basis, but · is. the growing career field of forming the · community of . covers any Wlforseen problem$ • education. It is his un 8 \General Education.\ (See infacultyteachingloads.)Dean· ·· der$tandlng that young people related article on front page.) ' Weiner has weekly meetirl.gs • today are looking more for a Alt'hough this position is witb the Academic Affairs ·' ·salary than for a fulfilling job technically a half time one, Council, the subcoWlcil on the · · that they will be happy with. Dean Weiner has relocated to curriculum, the General , • Besides that fact that this i$. a the deans' offices in the S & E Education Committee, .an!l ,the · .field with many openings IUld Building and seems to have Faculty Review Board as part ·. fair starting salaries, he ~ys more than enough te> do. of his new job. He did retain f:1is ·: Utat· the eXperience .of sharing In addition to being involved . job as a professor, teachmg C.lle ' knowledge and of coQstantly with curriculum reform, Dean section of freshman preeep.. incr.easing one's intellectual Weiner's new responsibilities torial each tenn this yea~, lllld capabilities can be matched by include admlnistermg faculty he hopes to eventually altemate .few other jobs. One way that travel (for both professional this with teaching soci()lo~ Union students can pass on their and educational purpo$es)., · . courses in the future. .Ee · · abilities to other people iS faculty research opportunities . · especially feels proud that the through teaching · and he and· grants, and the Internal sociology department has oome strongly urges . ~ch person to Education .Foundation. One a long way since 197-t, whe11lle · serio.usly consider this as a purpose of this is to \facilitate · first came to Union,. for · career option. · faculty to obtain outside filnding example, the addition of an- . Students should also \take fbt research\ and he feels that thro(>91ogy courses in tbelr om · · much more advan~age of the the professors need someone :in right. Weiner is still advisi.Jlg catpital district's offerings, get the administration to help them. sociology majors, andmigllt be off· campus, for example, the He would like to work harder on doing some thesis advisin.g if Proctors' tickets (that are being faculty development to further the topics are within his special · offered at special student research progress,\ holding to fields of interest. prices.)'' An overall \richer\ the belief that a \good faculty Dean Weiner received bis college experience is something (is) ... not cimompatible with bachelor's and mastEr's . that he would like to see the those who are active in their degrees from the University of Union students participate in. disciplines and scholarship.\ Illinois at. Chicago, bis Another aspect of college life Professors must d~velop their hometown, and his Ph.D. fmm that Dean Weiner hopes to own thinking and ideas through the University of Nonll improve is the faculty-student research in order to com- Carolina at Chapel Hill, Be relationship. \I'd like to be able plement their teaching skilis. \Went to ~ollege to become a. - to increase the opportunities for Hs stated that from his ex- teacher\ . and is thorougllly informal and casual interaction periences, Union is ideal in that · excited about his career uul between faculty and students ... both teaching and research can interacU.on with students. He . I really- hope that the new be accomplished in this sman and his wife (who is alS<I a · Student Center will help this.\ and personable environment;· teacher) moved to Schenectady Theprofessors would really like he believes that the faculty here 12 yeaJ's ago so that he colll<l to get to know students as \work harder because their accept the professorship at :people, he ~mphasized. records are distingUished, but Union. While he believes tltat However, this must be a two- (they) can do well in class each the quality of students at. tile way street and he noted that day-they came here (as op- college remains quite high,, ]le ''students must take. initiative posed to a large university) feels that there is a lack of in- as well.'' Campus and Local News investment Club Meeting aspects of finance. This in·· eludes investment opportunities sueh as the stock market, m11tual funds, and money The Student Investment Club market accoWlts. The $eCOnd of Union College held its first .-reslJlting function is to have meeting this week to formulate · those students become active general plans for the upcoming pariicipants in the financial year. New m~mbers as well as field. Members .may invest some old ones attended. The capital of their own to gain a Club v.ras fonned three years first hand view of investment. ago so that students interested However, those who do not wish in the financial world might to actually invest will benefit have an opportunity to ex- from various lectures and perililent and learn grom their seminars throughout the~ year. ideas• A!lyone intesested in One specific goal of the group beeoming an active member of is to expose students to different the Student Investment Club, FINAL ICARA TE CLUB SCHE.DULE MON. -- SS 1 13 6:00 - 7:30 WED -- HU 115 , 6:00-7:30 • (AF\TSJ THU. - DANCE HALL 4:30 - 6:00 FRI. -- ARTS 215 6:00 ~ 7:30 H yo.u are interested i 11 joining the club, come to any or the above classes or call Michael Zeller.~ 374-1994. please call Brian McKinsey at 381-4181. The next meeting will take place on Monday evening at 7 p.m. on the third flor of Old Chapel. All interested students are encouraged to come, Rape Crisis Center Plans Rally This Friday, September 26, the Albany County. Rape Crisis Center and the Rape Crisis. coalition of Eastern New York is co-sponsoring a rally and march against rape on · the capitol steps in East Capitol Park in Albany. The rally, \Take Back The Night\ is an action by women and me;n to protest rape in our society as we_ll as other violences against women .. Planned for the event are various speakers and musiei!l;ns (including the rock grClup., Begonia). A self•defe11se demonstration is also planlled for following the march. Fina/Dayof Phone Training Today is the final daY of phone training. The session, Seniors Please sign up for Senior Portra,i·t in the Student Activities office, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, ASAP. The photographer will be here Sept. 29 - Oct. 4 Thank you., Mrs. Marra which started this morning at 8:30a.m.,. ends this afternoon at 4:30p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge. Traveling Club Trips Being Organized Any student interest~d in planning . trips for the Union University Traveling Club, please see Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office; Third floor;Old Chapel ·as soon as possible.

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, September 15, 1986 .c:: - E Vl 10 u u ClJ ;C ClJ 0!: >- .0 0 ... 0 .c:: 0.. New Associate Dean of Faculty, Terry Weiner, describes the responsibility of his p0sition. An ad-hoc committee has been formed to assess the tenureability of Michael Redko, Associate Professor of Engineering/Computer Science. All members of the college community wishing to contribute oral or written testimony concerning Professor Redko's teaching, scholarship, or college service are encouraged to communicate in writing or to contact Dean Edward Craig (Electrical Engineering, Professor Tom Jewell (Civil Engineering}, Professor Jay Newman (Physics), or Professor Tom Kerschner (Economics), chairman. Friday, September 26: \T. G. I. F. \ The Grand Finale 5:00p.m. Center City Arena Downtown Schenectady Just across State Street from Canal Square and Proctor's Theatre. Music By: \The Students\ with rock of the 60's, 70's and 80's. $1.00admission For more info call 374-2499 must be 21 or older 382-5109 Weiner Appointed Associate Dean of Faculty Sees Lack of Outside Intellectual Interest ByLORILEON This past June, Terry S. Weiner, former chairman of the sociology department, was appointed Associate Dean of Faculty, replacing Ilene Kaplan, who· had held that position for five years. While Professor Martha Huggins is the new soci()logy department chairperson and Professor Kaplan has returned to teaching full time, Dean Weiner is naw faced with many challenges, one being the new General Education program, a revision of what we know as the Liberal · Learning aspect af our curriculwn. .An all campus notice will be posted today, Thursday, September 25, in- forming the community of \General Education.\ (See related article on front page.) Although this position is technically a half time one, Dean Weiner has relocated to the deans' offtces in the S & E Building and seems to have more than enough to do. In addition to being involved with curriculum refonn, Dean Weiner's new responsibilities include administermg faculty travel (for both professional and educational purposes), faculty research opportunities and· grants, and the Internal Education Foundation. One purpose of this is to \facilitate faculty to obtain outside funding for research\ and he feels that the professors need someone in the administration to help them. He would like to work harder on faculty development to further research progress, holding to the belief that a \good faculty (is) ... not cimompatible with those who are active in their disciplines and scholarship.\ Professors must develop their own thinking and ideas through research in order to com- plement their teaching skills. Hs stated tbat from his ex~ periences, Union is ideal in that both teaching and research can be accomplished in this small and personable environment; he believes that the faculty here \work harder because their records are distinguished, but (they) can do well in class each day-they came here (as op- posed to a large university) because they know the most impGrtant thing is to teach and · teach well.'' Keeping in touch · with the faculty is important, and this link that Dean Weiner represents is vital to both the professors and to ad- ministration in ·maintaining that basic Hne of com- munication. On a more personal level, Dean Weiner is someone to whom the faculty can voice their opinions, and sometone . they can talk with informaMy. The Associate Dean of Faculty is also in charge of emergency faculty hiring · so that the college can handle increased enrollment in courses. (This does not cover · the permanent hiring that is done on a slower basis, but covers any unforseen problems in faculty teaching loads.) Dean Weiner has weekly meetings with the Academic Affairs Council, the subcouncil on the curriculum, the General Education Committee, and the Faculty Review Board as part of his new job. He did retain his job as a professor, teaching one section of freshman precep- torial each tenn this year, and he hopes to eventually alternate this with teaching sociology courses in the future. He especially feels proud that the sociology department has come a long way since 1974, when he first came to Union, for example, the addition of an- thropology courses in their own right. Weiner is still advising sociology majors, and might be doing some thesis advising if the topics are within his special fields of interest. Dean Weiner received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Illinois at Chicago, his hometown, and his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. He \Went to college to become a teacher\ and is thoroughly excited about his career and interaction with students. He and his wife (who is also a teacher) moved to Schenectady 12 yea1·s ago so that he could accept the professorship at Union. While he believes that the quality of students at the college remains quite high, he feels that there is a lack of in- tellectual life outside of the classroom, with students being too wrapped up in their own lives. ''Union students work hard, but they need more of an independent intellectual life ... We as administrators have to think about what we can do to promote that.\ He does not see much active interest in the daily world events, which disturbs him. Though he realizes that it is not fair to compare this era with his \Vietnam\ high school and college years, the world problerns t()day are ''probably more cornpelling\ and a strong need fDr awareness and genuine concern for our world· exists. Another point that Dean Weiner urges stadents to consider today is the growing career field of education. It is his un- derstanding that young people today are looking more for a salary than for a fulfilling job that tlley will be happy with. Besides that fact that this is a field with many openings and fair starting salaries, he says that the experience of sharing knowledge and of constantly increasing one's intellectual capabilities can be matched by few other jobs. One way that Union students can pass on their abilities to other people is through teaching and he strongly urges each person to seriously consider this as a career option. · Students should also \take much more advantage of the capital clistrict's offerings, get off carnpl!s, for example, -the Proctors' tickets (that are being offered at special student prices.)\ .An overall \richer\ college experience is something that he would like to see the Union students participate in. Another aspect of college life that Dean Weiner hopes to improve is the faculty-st11dent relationsbi]). \I'd like to be able to increase the opportunities for informal !Uld casual interaction between faculty and students ... I really hope that the new Student Center will help this.\ The professors would really like to get to know students as people, he emphasized. However, this must be a two- way street and he noted that \students must take initiative as well.\ Campus and local News Investment Club Meeting The Student Investment Club of Union College held its first meeting this week to formulate · general plans for the upcoming year. New members as well as some old ones attended. The Club was formed three years ago so that students interested in the financial world might have an opportunity to ex- periment and learn grom their ideas. One specific goal of the group is to expose students to different aspects of finance. This in- cludes investment opportunities such as the stock market, mutual funds, and money market accounts. The second resulting function is to have those students become active participants in the financial field. Members may invest capital of their own to gain a first hand view of investment. However, those who do not wish to actually invest will benefit from various lectures and seminars throughout the year. Anyone intesested in becoming an active member of the Student Investment Club, FINAL KARATE CLUB SCHEDULE MON. -- SS 1 13 6:00 - 7:30 WED. -- HU I IS [Arm) 6:00 - 7:30 THU. DANCE HALL 4:30 - 6:00 FRI. -- ARTS 2 1 '5 6:00 - 7:30 H you are interested in joining the club. come to any of the abiJVC classes or call Michael Zeller ~ 374-1994. please call Brian McKinsey at 381-4181. The next meeting will take place on Monday evening at 7 p.m. on the third flor of Old Chapel. All interested students are encouraged to come. Rape Crisis Center Plans Rally This Friday, September 26, the Albany County Rape Crisis Center and the Rape Crisis coalition of Eastern New York is co-sponsoring a rally and march against rape on · the capitol steps in East Capitol Park in Albany. The rally, \Take Back The Night\ is an action by women and men to protest rape in our society as well as other violences against women. Planned for the event are various speakers and musicians (including the rock group, Begonia). A self-defense demonstration is also planned for following the march. Final Day of Phone Training Today is the final day of phone training. The session, Seniors Please sign up for Senior Portrait in the Student Activities office, 3rd Floor Old Chapel, ASAP. The photographer wi II be here Sept. 29 - Oct. 4 Thank you, Mrs. Marra which started this morning at 8:30a.m., tiDds this aftem()on at 4:30p.m. in Hale House Lower Lounge. Traveling Cluh Trips Being Organized Any student interested in planning trips for the Union University Traveling Club, please see Mrs. Marra in the Studellt .Activities Office, Third floor ,Old Chapel as soon as possible. j, I

i CONCORDIENSIS; Septem!Jer 25, 1986 PageS New Faculty By MINA MARTIN Freshmen aren't the only ones getting acquainted with Union this year. Professor Cherrice Traver is a new member ·Of Union's faculty this term. She is .cw·rently the only female professor .in the elec- trical engineering department. Before coming to Union, Professor Traver completed an undergraduate degree in physics at SUNY-Albany, and then continued her education at the University of Virginia, where she worked on a PhD in electrical engineering. Professor Traver first heard of Union through an IEEE magazine. In stating her first impressions of Union, she noted that the campus and com- munity interaction at Union is very different from that of UV A,. -where the campus is integrated in the surroup.ding community,. and more people live off campus. She com- mented, \I don't really think I know just how small Union is yet.\ Professor Traver says the students at Union are- just like students in other colleges, only there fewer of them.ln teaching a circuits eourse, Professor Traver notes that although the students don't ask as many questions as. she would like, the ones that they ask are very good ones. •Professor Traver finds that teaching is cgmpatible with her goals of purslling a career in engineering as well as being the mother of a 15-month-old daugbter. Professor Traver believes that women need- ,t~ find a balance between the two extremes of staying in the home to raise children and pursuing their own careers. She was very excited about the dayacare program off~red at Union. When asked if it was hard for her to be committed to a very demanding career as well as to being a mother, Professor Traver smiled, saying that she \could go on for hours on that subject.\ Because tbe engineering field changes so quickly, Professor Traver explains that com- mitment to her career must :be continual in order to keep abreast of new applications and methods of problem-solving. She finds that she occasionally encounters the \IIow.can ... you- possible~be-a-good-mother-if­ you-work\ stigma in today's society. In response, she adds that her daughter is very well adjusted. Professor Taver's hope is that her daughter .'Yill grow up, using her as a role- model, and that it will be easier for women in future generations to .find a balance between family and career com- mitments. A Martian Invasion ByPAULSCHOP Last May, M. Herman Davis saved our campus from a Martian invasion. In the tradition of New York State's great Lotto Jackpot winners, who, like M. Herman, are somehow picked by fate from among millions tQ receive fame and fortune, the incident has not changed his life. He does, however, avoid Price Chopper now, and its hordes of inquiring minds who still remember his picture and exploits three months after they were published. Today, that may all change. In the tradition of one thing always leading to another, the video equipment that he pur- chased with the money he earned by selling his story to the tabloids has given. him an adventure so bizarre, and so potentially lucrative as well, that it could make him a net- work vice president. In ·order to do justice to the story, let's let M. Herman tell it in his own words. \I remember it just as if it were yesterday. Actually, it was last Friday. . I had just hooked up my satellite dis_h that evening.· I guess I didn't install it properly, because all I could receive were the local stations plus one from Iwo Jima. All they played were reruns of I Love Lucy dubbed in Japanese. Well, anyway, at nine o'clock, ·Miami Vice came Dn. I wasn't in the mood to watch it, so I put on a tape of an old Draguet episode instead, \ Everything was normal, until at about 9: 15~ a tremertdous ·thunderstorm hit Schenectady. That's when the 'lightning bolt struck the satellite dish. The TV screen went blank for about two ·seconds and when it came on again, Miami Vice and Dragnet had merged. It was really strange. Lt. Catsillo called Crockett and Tubbs into ·his office. He said that he was giving them new ·partners. . Crockett would be with Sgt. Friday; while Tubbs- was to be paired With Det. Gannon. He also gave them undercoller assignments. Tubbs and Gannon were to join the · U.S. Army forces in Bolivia to infiltrate a drug ring. Crockett and Friday were to act as their Miami contacts and arrest the smugglers when they reached America. Needless to say, Crockett and Tubbs :were not pleased with this arrangement. In one scene, Jack Webb ordered Don Johnson to shave~ It went like this: \Son I've been a cop for over thirty years. Therefore, I oUtrank you. A cop must be clean and neat, I order you to shave,'' said Webb. \Get OUT OF HERE,\ replied .Johnson. \Do you have a dime?\ asked Webb. \If you want to make a call, it costs · a quarter now. Where have you been, lately?\ · \Doing telephone boolt commercials in New Jersey.~' \Don't you ever bother to read them?\ . ''No, they're just a lot of characters and no plot,\ replied Webb. v \Who are you going to call, anyway?\ \The President.\ \Reagan?\ \No Tartikoff. He said that if you were uncooperative, that I should give him a call so that lle · can replace you with Mark Harmon. There is no room for insubOrdination on my force.\ \}Vhere do you keep the razor and shaving cream?\ · · \Oh and one more thing, son. We won't be using your Ferrari anymore.'' ''Why not?'' , \Because aon, it looks bad · for a cop to be seen driv.ing a $75;000 car when -he only earns $25,000 a year.\ ''Well, what will we be driving then?\ asked Johnson. ''A late model Ford.\ Meanwhile, down in Bolivia,. things were not going well for Tubbs and Gannon. For in• stance, this scene took place: \I caught this suspect selling these black Columbian cocaine FEATURES Pr<>f. Bill Thomas, head of terms abroad programs. A Question of Safety ByWENDYZ~ERMAN and CYNTHIA PANTAZIS The Union College Term . Abroad program has always been an experience most students opt for. However, with. the increase in terrorism abroad, the safety of st11dellts participating in the progl'ams is being questioned. Those programs in question include France, Italy, Israel, Greece, and countries within the socialized medicine pr()gram. The concern has recently arisen due to the series of bombing~ in France; yet this type of situation is not one that Union beans,\ said Gannon, \l don't believe his story that they're just ordinary coffee beans.\ \Let me see those bea11s,\ said Tubbs, who tasted o11e. \These are coffee beans. Let him go, fool.\ I would have watched tile entire show, but there was a fire drill at 9:40. By the time I returned, it was already 10:05. Luckily, I managed to rec()rd the rest of the show. It ended something like this: · Tubbs and Gannon had t() fly a 707 loaded with cocaine back to Florida. They were going to be met at a secret airstrip in tile Everglades by Crockett and Friday. Unfortunately, arout30 iniles off of Key West, t!Je dru:g smugglers discovered wlHl Gannon and Tubbs really were. Fortunately, our two stars managed to subdue them. Unfortunately, the plane was flying through the Bettnuda Traingle at the time, and bef(Jre they could do anything a'b~Jut it, . the plane was flying at Mach4. · College has never encountered. In the late 70s, for example, because of the change in Poland's borders, tbe portion of the soc med trip that was to take place there was omitted, as was the section of their daily journal reserved for Poland: In 1981 because of earthquakes in Greece, the trip was stopped at the end of the eighth week, resulting in students taking the exams of their term abroad courses at the beginning of the following term. This past winter, Union students were injured in the Rome airport due to terrorist attacks. These students were given the option of continuing their program or returning to Union. Union's policy would have made sure they received three courses that they had paid ·for. One can see, by viewing other university statistics that student safety abroad has become a nationwide concern. For instance, Syracuse University's term abroad enrollment is down 50 percent, and Michigan, which has an \immense program (usually involving) a couple of hundred' students\ is down by 60 percent. By focusing on the term that is now in France and the con- sistent bombings that have taken place, one can get the idea of the rising concern. To begin, Union has decided to continue with original plans f~r the France program, which, to no surprise, is very small this year, with only 12 or 13 students. As Professor Thomas stated, the college did not fi!1d it necessary to end the France program, given the fact that the bombings were in Paris, and the program is not. However, Union has had concern enough so that calls were made to the State Department and to government · officials in France. This was done \quietly and behind the scenes because (they) didn't want to add to panic.\ It was said that the officials in question \were very cautious\ whenever spoken to. Dr. Meanwhile, Crockett an.d Friday were waiting for them . · oil the ground. Friday told · · Crockett that because be was cleannshaven, that W():tnen would find him more attractive. While he was telling him this, • the , plane flew overhead ·at about 100 feet. The sky was a very unusual shade of tJtuple. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning hit the plane, and the j~t, a11d Crockelt and Friday's. car disappeared in a flash of light · and a burst of syntbesi2ei' · music. When they do reappear, they are in the lagoon pf astnaJl · · Warger, assistant to Vice President D'Andrea, stated \We encourage everyone to be careful.\ Had there been, or if there are any warnings, \that would have been an automatic cut off.'' Professor Thomas, Continued 011 p. 7 bead. of all terms abroad programs, when asked about advice to traveling students responded with \I would cancel o11t. group trips (as well as) not allo\ving students on their own.\ He also stated th;::t \evErything is played by ear (because there are) so many possibilities\ as to what will hapJJen. . :Both Dr. Warger and Professor Thomas agreed that therequ.ired visas necessary for entry into France were a ''real tuming point,\ although Dr Warger was content in the fa<!t ,that ·\France has a lot of p1>1ice state capability.\ This meaning, among other things, the use of hotel cards; cards filled out by hotel guests and pick:ed up by the police daily, thns allowing an innocent traveler to be \challenged on the street to show I. D. •· Regarding France, when asked wb.at measures would be taken if and when a situation arose wllere students were · in~ voluntarily . brought back to Un11>n, Dr. Warger felt that the language course equivalent w1>-ul<i be no problem to sub- stitute, but regarding the fo1·eign civilization course, ''We don't have anything like that.\ Fina11cially, cost doesn't enter the,decision. \The fee a student going abroad pays Union is only $6() or so higher than Union's tuition, it all washes . ., As many stttdents know, \where it would hurt the college would be {to fin<!) 60 or 80 more dormitory spaces.\ For the time being, parental concern doesn't seem to be a pmblem. Dr. Warger, when asked about receiving any calls responded with \I haven't (re<!eived) any .... not a Single one.\ Professor Thomas has only received calls dealing with Qbtai:lling the necessary visa. Hov.rever, it is sensed that the administration themselves don't favor travel abroad at this time. Most will agree that many stu.dents view their travel abroad as a break from the ro11tille activities at Union; opting for a change in scenery as ~ell as academics. This just pr()ves the overall consensus as expressed by Professor 'rh<~mas: \Union will go anywher-e to .gQo-shopping. '' ... Ql .0 ;:, ... 0 Ql > 1'0 Cl >- .0 0 - 0 r. 0.

I \ ' j, l l I I CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 PageS New Faculty By MINA MARTIN Freshmen aren't the only ones getting acqaainted wit:n Unien this year. Professor Cherrice Traver is a new member of Union's faculty this term. She is currEntly the only female professor in the elec- trical engineering department. Befo,re earning to Unien, Professor Traver completed an undergraduate degree in physics at SUNY-AlbaNy, and then continued her education at the University of Virginia, where she worked on a PhD in electrical engineering. Professor Traver first heard of Union through an IEEE magazine. In stating her first impressions of Union, she noted that the campus ami com- munity interacti()il at Union is very different from that of UV A, where the campus is integrated in the surrounding community, and more people live off campus. She com- mented, \I don't really think I know just how small Union is yet.\ Professor Traver says the students at Union are just like students in other collEges, only there fewer of them. I11 teaching a circuits course, Professor Traver notes that although the students don't ask as many questions as she would like, the ones that they ask are very good ones. Professor Traver finds that teacl~ing is compatible with her goals of pursuing a career in engineeriRg as well as being the mether of a 15-month-old daughter. Professor Traver believes that women need te find a balance between the two extremes of staying in the home tv raise children and pursuing their own careers. SA.e was very ex:cited about the day-care program offered at Union. Whell. asked if it was hard for her to be committed to a very demanding career as well as to being a mother, Professor Traver smiled, saying that she \c(mld go on for hours on that subject.\ Because the engineering field changes so quickly, Professor Traver explains that com- mitment to her career must be continual in order to keep abt·east of new applications and methods of problem-solving. She finds that she occasionally encounters the \How-can-you- possible-be-a-good-mother-if- you-work\ stigma in today's society. In response, she adds that her daughter is very well adjusted. Professor Taver's hope is that her daughter will grow up, using her as a role- model, and that it will be easier for women in future generations to find a balance between family and career com- mitments. A Martian Invasion ByPAULSCHOP Last May, M. Herman Davis saved our campus from a Martian invasion. In the tradition of New York State's great Lotto Jackpot winners, who, like M. Herman, are somehow picked by fate from among millions to receive fame and fortune, the incident has not changed his life. He does, however, avoid Price Chopper now, and its hordes of inquiring minds who still remember his picture and ex:ploits three months after they were published. Today, that may all change. In the tradition of one thing always leading to another, the video equipment that he pur- chased with the money he earned by selling his story to the tabloids has given him an adventure so bizan·e, and so potentially lucrative as well, that it could make him a net- work vice preside11t. In order to do justice to the story, let's let M. Herman tell it in his own words. \I remember it just as if it were yesterday. Actually, it was last Friday. I had just hooked up my satellite dish that evening. I guess I didn't install it properly, becawe all I could receive were the local stations plus one from Iwo Jima. All they played were reruns of I Love Lucy dubbed in Japanese. Well, anyway, at nine o'clock, Miami Vice came em. 1 wasn't in the mood to watch it, so I put on a tape of an old DL\agmet episode instead. Everything was nonnal, until at about 9:15, a tl\ernendous thunderstorm hit Schenectady. That's when the lightning bolt struck the satellite dish. The TV screen went blank for about two seconds and when it came on again, Miami Vice and Dragnet had merged. It was really strange. Lt. Catsillo called Cr<Jckett and Tubbs into his ofiice. He said that he was giving them new partners. Crockett would be with Sgt. Friday, while Tubbs was to be paired with Det. Gannon. He also gave them lllldercover assignments. Tubbs and Gannon were to join the U.S. Army forces in Bolivia to infiltrate a drug ring. Crockett and Friday were to act as their Miami contacts and arrest the smugglers when they reached America. Needless to say, Crockett and Tubbs were not pleased with this arrangement. In one scene, Jack Webb ordered Don J()bnson to shave. It went like this: \Son I've been a cop for over thirty years. Therefore, I outrank you. A cop must be clean and neat, I order you to shave,\ said Webb. \Get OUT OF HERE,\ replied Johnson. \Do you have a dime?\ asked Webb. \If you want to make a call, it C()sts a quarter now. Where have you been, lately?\ \Doing telephone book commercials in New Jersey.\ \Don't you ever bother to read them?\ \No they're just a lot of characters and no plot,\ replied Webb. \Who are you going to call, anyway?\ \The President.\ \Reagan?\ \No Tartikoff. He said that if you were uncooperative, that I should give him a call so that he can replace you with Mark Harmon. There is no room for insubordination on my force.\ \Where do you keep the razor and shaving cream?\ \Oh and one more thing, son. We won't be using your Ferrari anymore.'' \Why not?\ \Because son, it looks bad for a cop to be seen driving a $7ij,000 car when he only earns $2~,000 a year.\ \Well what will we be driving then?\ asked Johnson. \A late model Ford.\ Meanwhile, down in Bolivia, things were not going well for Tubbs and Gannon. For in· stance, this scene took place: \I caught this suspect selling these black Columbian cocaine FEATURES ,, .1, :? l .,.. .... ..:-: Prof. Bill Thomas, head of terms abroad programs. A Question of Safety By WENDY ZIMMERMAN and CYNTHIA PANTAZIS The Union College Term Abroad program has always been an experience most students opt for. However, with the increase in terrorism abroad, the safety of students participating in the programs is being questioned. Those programs in question include France, Italy, Israel, Greece, and countries within the socialized medicine program. The concern has recently arisen due to the series of bombings in France; yet this type of situation is not one that Union beans,\ said Gannon, \I don't believe his story that they're just ordinary coffee beans.\ \Let me see those beans,\ said Tubbs, who tasted one. \These are coffee beans. Let him go, fool.\ I would have watched the entire show, but there was a fire drill at 9:40. By the time I returned, it was already 10:05. Luckily, I managed to record the rest of the show. It ended something like this: Tubbs and Gannon had to fly a 707 loaded with cocaine back to Florida. They were going to be met at a secret airstrip in the Everglades by Crockett and Friday. Unfortunately, about 30 miles off of Key West, the drug smugglers discovered who Gannon and Tubbs really were. Fortunately, our two stars managed to subdue them. Unfortunately, the plane was flying through the Bermuda Traingle at the time, and before they could do anything about it, the plane was flying at Mach 4. Meanwhile, Crockett and Friday were waiting for them on the ground. Friday told Crockett that because he was clean-shaven, that women would find him more attractive. While he was telling him this, the plane flew overhead at about 100 feet. The sky was a very unusual shade of purple. Suddenly, a bolt of lightning hit the plane, and the jet, and Crockett and Friday's car disappeared in a flash of light and a burst of synthesizer music. When they do reappear, they are in tbe lagoon of a small Continued on p. 7 College has never encountered. In the late 70s, for example, because of the change in Poland's borders, the portion of the soc med trip that was to take place there was omitted, as was the section of their daily journal reserved for Poland. In 1981 because of earthquakes in Greece, the trip was stopped at the end of the eighth week, resulting in students taking the exams of their term abroad courses at the beginning of the following term. This past winter, Union students were injured in the Rome airport due to terrorist attacks. These students were given the option of continuing their pro g.- am or returning to Union. Union's policy would have made sure they received three courses that they had paid for. One can see, by viewing other university statistics that student safety abroad has become a nationwide concern. For instance, Syracuse University's term abroad enrollment is down 50 percent, and Michigan, which has an \immense program (usually involving) a couple of hundred students\ is down by 60 percent. By focusing on the term that is now in France and the con- sistent bombings that have taken place, one can get the idea of the rising concern. To begin, Union has decided to continue with original plans for the France program, which, to' no surprise, is very small this year, with only 12 or 13 students. As Professor Thomas stated, the college did not find it necessary to end the France program, given the fact that the bombings were in Paris, and the program is not. However, Union has had concern enough so that calls were made to the State Department and to government officials in France. This was done \quietly and behind the scenes because (they) didn't want to add to panic.\ It was said that the officials in question \were very cautious\ whenever spoken to. Dr. Warger, assistant to Vice President D'Andrea, stated \We encourage everyone to be careful.\ Had there been, or if there are any warnings, \that would have been an automatiC' cut off.\ Professor Thomas, head of all terms abroad programs, when asked about advice to traveling students responded with \I would cancel out group trips (as well as) not allowing students on their own.\ He also stated thr.t \everything is played by e:ar (because there are) so many possibilities'' as to what will happen. . Both Dr. Warger and Professor Thomas agreed that the required visas necessary for entry into France were a \real turning point,\ although Dr Warger was content ia the fact that \France has a lot of police state capability.\ This meaning, among other things, the use of hotel cards; cards filled out by hotel guests and picked up by the police daily, thus allowing an innocent traveler to be \challenged on the street to show I. D.\ Regarding France, when asked what measures would be taken if and when a situation arose where students were in- voluntarily brought back to Union, Dr. Warger felt that the language course equivalent would be no problem to sub- stitute, but regarding the foreign civilization course, \We don't have anything like that.\ Financially, cost doesn't enter the decision. \The fee a student going abroad pays Union is only $60 or so higher than Union's tuition, it all washes.'' As many students know, \where it would hurt the college would be (to find) 60 or 80 more dormitory spaces.'' For the time being, parental concern doesn't seem to be a problem. Dr. Warger, when asked about receiving any calls responded with \I haven't (received) any .... not a single one.\ Professor Thomas has only received calls dealing with obtaining the necessary visa. However, it is sensed that the administration themselves don't favor travel abroad at this time. Most will agree that many students view their travel abroad as a break from the routine activities at Union; opting for a change in scenery as well as academics. This just proves the overall consensus as expressed by Professor Thomas: \Union will go anywhere to go- shopping.\ '- ClJ .0 :::> ... <.,') CJ > ro Cl >- .0 0 +- 0 ..c: 0.

Page6 CONCORDJENSIS,September ~5, 1986 FEATURES \{up ~es\(€ee COn5tructron --rPR wr// be Where Will The \Epidemic ,, Lead? done . . • Los Angeles Laker Coach Pat Riley Speaks at Union By STAFF · OnWednesday,September 17, the Minerva Lectures Series presented Pat Riley, coah of the NBA Los Angeles Lakers and, believe it or not, a native .of Schenectady. There was a surprisingly small group of people on hand for such a highly visible media personality, However, local television stations had their camera crews ready and waiting for what turned out to be a most en- joyable presentation. determine what is best for us. With the help of a few amusing anecdotes, he ex- plained that life cannot be met with complacence ·and passivity. It must, instead, be lived with persistence and a willingness to face challenges and problems with courage and vigor. On a more topical level, Riley briefly commented on the problem of drug::;. He seems to feel that random drug testing in professional sports would not solve anything, rather, \drug testing from the first grade on would be more like it.'' Whether or not this is an exaggeration, it is clear that he recognizes a serious problem that has reached epidemic proportions in our nation, and one that will not be quickly resolved until complacency is replaced by action ... on all levels. , ByALEXSTEPHENS After 45 minutes of deliberating a well-worded sermon on the \proper at~ titude\ for life, Pat Riley, his hair characteristically slicked back, dressed in a wen tailored tan sport coat and displaying signs of duress from the hot lamps, redirected his casual and often hutn01:ous speech to the hot topic of drugs in our ·society. Certainly the head coach of the Los Angeles Lakets was within his bounds to reiterate on a subject that we are made aware of almost daily. The sweeping campaign against drugs has brought TV and movie stars, politicians and spOrts figures into the scene. No doubt the death of Len Bias, the Boston Celtic's number one draft pick and Maryl'and superstar shook the country, but many editorials that followed took a far less sym- pathetic air after the initial shock and relayed a message that was very clear. So, tm- deniably, with the prominence of sports ·i{l our society, it see;med appropriate for Riley to voice his concern and, in essence, his warning. It is somewhat of a foreign subject for one to consider what the situation is at Union and what the effects there may be in the midst of the crusade against drugs that leads presently right into the Oval Office's rest rooms. Many small schools, especially ones as self- contained as Union, seem to be · a separate ep.tity from the rest of the world, from students' perspective. Most students do not participate in their local elections, interact with the surrotmding community or keep fully up to date with the news of the world. They primarily concern themselves with classes or socializing, and why not, this is college, the time in people's lives where they learn the most about themselves. Certainly, the first step the administration would take, or should take, would be to recognize that a problem ac- tually exists, which has yet to be documented. Despite our size, we ·do play an integral role in the national scheme of things, a notion that is not always a focus of attention. The validity of drugs as being There were no pre-game strategy plans, there were no tirneouts, and there were no in- your-face slam dunk shots. Diagrams were not needed to understand what Pat Riley had come to say. With the air of a polished speaker Mr. Riley discussed a problem that all of us, at one time or another, encounter, a lack of s~lf­ confidence. He said that many people do not realize their own potential because of their fear of failure. It is exactly this type of attitude that Riley said has to be re-shaped and redefined. Dedication, discipline, and determination are all part of what he termed \the proper attitude\. And with this proper attitude he exclaimed, \you can be anything you want to be.\ Although he never told the audience what this attitude exactly was, or what it en- compassed, it was obvious that Pat Riely was calling upon us as individuals to reach inside of our own hearts and souls to What Was H~ppening •••.• 20 Years Ago . . . Anyone interest d in arranging trips to the malls for shopping .ancl . theatpr. using the · · Studdnt, Activities van please ~top in to the Student - Activities Office • Old Chapel 3rcl floor. By MINA MARTIN All you freshmen out there might be interested to hear that some things seem like they neyei' change. Twenty years ago the pages of Cottcordiensis were filled with news of Fresh- man Orientation, overcrowded living conditions, ·renovating, and construction. The headlines for September 22, 1966 read: \Largest Frosh Class Ever\ Concordiensis states, \A record breaking 373 freshmen entered Union this week .... \ This boosted enrollment to a record- breaking ·1;350 'Students, the largest in Union's history. Other articles, seemingly duplicated today, concern the housing problem for overcrowded student dorms. Because of the \Cramped quarters as a result of the housing shortage, many upperclassmen find themselves crowded three or four in a room. Union is facing its most severe housing _problem in many years ... Jn.: No~n :Al~ege upper class students · are crowded three and four_iii_a room. Fresh~ men are occupying · West College, Richmond House, and most of South College.\ Just think, during this time, Fox, Davidson, and the five-man suite were still in the making. To compensate for the housing shortage, students were housed in former faculty apartments and in faculty homes throughout Schenectady. (There's an idea.2 In addition, on September'\29 1966, the- campus was awaiting the completion of \the satellite buildings on either side of· the Schaffer Library.\ At this time,· plans were announced to begin working on a new . science building or a Student Union to be housed in the newly renovated Carnegie Hall. an ubiquitous problem, an \epidemic'' as it is .SO often referred to, is seen in recent legislation, that has yet. to pass in the Senate, that would anow the president to deploy the military to stop drug traf• ficking. The Presidtmt is also requesting mandatory drug testing for _1.1 million federal workers. The \epidemic\ is essentially the number one issue. tbi~ year, reflected in the number of politicians lining up for personal drug tests in what is being called \Jar wars''. How then will this crusade effect the Union student? It would appear that it has yet to reach the campus with the intensity that it has been seen in the media. But, is there a definite problem that would warrant.any such actions ih the fox·m of restrictions or random testing. No doubt' lf ·any legislation was passed in the local or national books, Union would have no choice. but to ~:~bide by them. · It would be quite interesting to see how people handled such actions which many believe is an intrusion on our personal rights. Or, as one politician in opposition put, HThere's this little piece of paper called the Constitution.\ Is it really fair to requir-e drug tests for Division One athletes? And, how far will this reach at the college level? Some possible recourse to deter drug use on campus could come from already existing rules Qn campuses across the cotmtry. At Boston University if a student is caught with any illegal drugs or is a. minor in possession of .alcohol he is out. Union is an elite liberal arts CQllege and requires a fairly rigid curriculum. Perhaps this, in itself, forces the student to create a successful allocation of time coinmitted to not only academics but to enjoyiog the freedom of college life. It is obvious that if a student does not discover an equilibrium between the two he will inevitably be asked to leave. Among Pat Riley's closing remark~ · on the subject he stated that Joseph Stalin said, over 50 years ago, that they would conquer our nation by conquering a generation, and would do so with music and drugs. Regardless of whetber or not Stalin had the satanic lyrics of Ozzy Osborne in mind, the dUemma in our cotmtry is the danger of losing a generation to the ''epidemic\. Nancy Reagan said recently, \ ... no one is safe from it, not you, not me, and certainly not our children.\ The tmavoidable question would be: are we a part ofthis generation that Stalin meant? Or, several decades from now, will we be the ones reacting to the drug problem in soCiety and on campuses with such vehemence? Whether any legislation _or sweeping trend effects Union directly, or if one simply chooses to avoid. the issue, the fact still remains, we play an extremely critical role in society, in essence, we are the future. ' Book Review·· If - hy Stephen King ByCHRISTIN CLEARY One of America's favorite and most well known horror novelists, author of such great scares as Carrie, The Shining, and Cujo has come out with another masterpice simply titled IT. ALTHOUGH THIS NOVEL IS DIFFERENT FROM King's others, it still ranks up there with some of his best. IT is a story about a small town in the state of Maine wbich . has an evil force dwelling within it and ·a group of children, fondly calling themselves ''the Losers'', who try to fight it. The strange twist to this tale is that history repeats itself. The \Losers\ return as adults to battle the being that haunted them ~:~s children. The story $$$$ switches from past to present, a confusing but necessary way to see the links between the two. This effect is qUite successful at compelling the r~ader to eagerly turn the pages. Those of you that may have ·weak stomachs: this may not be the book for you. In King's usual style, the descriptions tend to leave even ths strongest of readers queasy with as much blood and gore as he can fit on the written page. However, do not let that mis~ea<l you. King's talent for keeping the reader glued to the page is also present to the utmost degree throughout this novel, with a· sUrprise arotmd every corner. So, if you are looking for a Stephen King riovel with a few twists, this is the book for you. $$$$ ' . A gift ~e.rtificate . ~ ~ ' . ' , ~ Buy a gift~certifJcateJor, a friend. It's worth· fr.ee typing done for them. $5.00 and up. Call 346-0344 or ·.Ext. 6130. $$$$. $$$$ t .~. ~' \ ,, ; ~ •, ... .,

\\ . CQNCOR.DIE.NSJ~ Septemb~r 25, 1986 Page7 '• -., ' _...:.....___...··~ FEATURES The Minerta Hour .. A ·Brief Overview· * * Drinker's Exclus.ive . By the Lushivity Council By STAFF The name Minerva may not be recognized by the aver.age student even though we see her picture almost every day .. She is the Greek goddess of Wisdom and has the honor of being on Union's emblem. It is with this background that the committee entitled the we.ekly lecture series that is held ·every Wed- nesday at 11 :30 a.m. in the library music room or in Social Sciences 016. The objective of the Minerva Lecture Series is to bring to Union distinguished individuals from a diverse variety of fields and interests to speak with students, faculty and staff about thoughts, ex-· perien.ces and perceptions .of the world in which they WQrk. Last year's spe~kers included newspaper editors, a symphony conductor, the ·president of the Audoboa Society, a prominent international lawyer. who had been the ehief prosecutor at the Nureml>lll\g trials and, most recently, Pat Riley, the head coach <lf the Los Angeles Lakers. Next· week's speaker will 'be Mr. Orin Lehman, Commissioner of the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation (OPRHP}. Mr. Lehmqil received his B.A. in psychology f-rom Princeton University, and his M.A. and Ph.D. iil American History from New York University. In addition to being responsible for State Parks and Historic Sites, Mr. · Lehman · serves as the liaison officer to the Federal Government in all matters pertaining to the OPRHP. He administ~rs Federal grants to State and local communities and has also instituted a fund raising ·progr~rn for OPHRP patterned on those of not-:for· pt·ofit organizations. The entire college .commtinity is encouraged to attend Minerva Hour to partjcipate in a very informative and enriching experience. All speakers are scheduled for Wednesday nwrnings to avoid most classroom obligations. By KRIS ROBINSON and MAlA ENZER Hey all you 21-year-old fresh· men, sophomores, juniors, and maybe even seniors, we're back! Did you like last week's drink? Have you returned to the completely dull state of sobriety yet? If so, WHY!!! For those of yau whoAREsober, perhaps we can cheer you up. For you inebriated types, we've heard variety is the spice of life. So we are prepared to divulge the recipe of yet another ambosic -Alphit Phi Alpha Presents Thurgood Marshall • • • . aqua vitae. Once again, we will provide you with an historic preview. This week's drink, Drink-of-the-Week number two, is called the 57 T-hird. All the way from the mecca of New York City (113th St. and Broadway, !or you . specifics aficionados)., this drink is sure to soon be the · \toast of the Union.\ This drink is smooth and sweet, and should only be consumed by tbe experienced drinker.Sorry, budget students, but this drink requires \label\ mgredients. In other words, cut back on the pizza. Because your liquor repertoire as a Union student will simply not be complete without this daily supplement of the lush diet. Pardon our long-windedness. Considering you've read this far, we are now going to reward yoii with . the recipe. DO NOT GET CORONARALLY EX- CITED! We do not want a lawsllit as a result of our second article. AND PLEASE, be 21. Blend 1 part Amaretto and 1 part Stolichnaye or Absolut vodka with _1 part pineapple juice (imported, of course), no more than three times. As the venerable Ogden Nash so wis~ly remarked, \Candy is dandy, .but Liquor is quicke~.\ And a drink which combmes both qualities is definitely a triple black diamond of. mebrients. So here's to advancement. Well, once again, we must go. So, until next week, keep smiling and studying, and never go to bed sober. Thurgood· Marshall became the first,. black man to serve as an. associate justice of the .Supreme Court of the United States.· To this position he was nominated by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1967. He graduated from Lincoln University in Pennsylvania with honors in 1930. The next fall he entered · Howard University Law School ahd graduated in 1933 as valedic- torian. Marshall served as chief counsel fer the National Assochttion for the Advan· ceme11t of C()lored People from 1938 to 1961. l{e was one of the most a~ive civil rights ad· vocates of the nation. He ef· fected a reinterpretation of the opligations ofthe states to their citiZens under the U.S. Con· stituticn by securing voting rights for .aU qualified persons regardless of color; establishing . admission for qualified minority students The Cave of Darkness I entered the cave of illness~ with sounds of footsteps behind• me: The echoes of laughter and the bells of llatred.- The black ugliness does not permit me to see, Looking for the light that seems much. belated. As the sickness penetrates, I feeldif'rent-alone. Those present are the jealous and the tombs, Searching and yearning for what will not be s)lown. Although I may never see, my voice must boom. The cave engulfs my soul, taking my breath. Gasping for air, I see ahead a light, A light which pulls me faraway from death and leaves me hopeful with a new sight. For in .the glow I see justice, Love of all people, absent of prejudice. Close Encounters by Robert Goldman • • • Continued from P· 5. . Professor, look what l found!~· tropice:tl island. The silence was I can't wait for neXt week. It's broken by a lone figure on the going to be even- tougher for beach who spotted the plane and these writers to get everybody then .started running across the .back h> Miami than it was to get island screaming, \Skipper Bobby Ewing back to Dallas. Welcome Btick FROM THE - RATHSKELLAR $3.50 meal c.redit. Open 12 p~rn. to 12 a.m. Coming soon for hungry students. like yo~ Subs • Potato Skins Harmony 'oocls: · Gummy Bears · Yogurt P~ahut Clt~sters Milk Chocolate Rai·sins and More Remember us/Dr tllose ''Late Night Cravings'' applying to state law schools; abolishing state supported housing agreementst}lat. barred minorities from . buying homes in white neighborhoods; and convincing the U.S. Supreme Court in U54 that the segregated school systems in the states . deprived minority children of equal educational opwrtunity. We are all proud of Thurgood Marshall's acllievements. ·························································~ • • • • : For anyone interested in being a member of the : : Student Host Program, which hosts high school : : seniors for a Night On Campus, there wHI be a i : meeting on Tuesday, September 30 at 7:30 P.M. in : : the lobby of the Admissions Office. If you are in- : • • • : terested but cannot attend the meeting, please call : : Jim·Schaeffer, Ext. 6112. : • • • • • S •• •••-• oe •• •••••••••• ••• •••a ••••••••••• e•·• •••••••••••••••! . Fun in the Big Apple By STAFF The Un-ion University Traveling Club is sponsoring a trip to New York Cith on Saturday, November l. Tickets go on sale October 12, 1986. The cost is $13.00 per person. There are only 41 seats available, so 1111111111111111111111111111111 tickets will be purchased on a first come, first served basis. The bus will depart from Wells' House at 7:00a.m. sharp, and it will depart from Radio City at 7:30 .p.m. Some things to do include: shopping in Greenwich Village or Soho. Fifth Avenue is 1111111 also a popular spot. near Broadway there is a discount ticket place (TKS) where tickets may be pur- chased for half price for plays showing on the day f.1e tickets are purchased. All types of ethnic foods are also available. Marine Studies Term ·Abroad Spring Term Bermuda Schooner Expedition Outer Banks/N.c~ Gul~f of Maine Orientation Meeting Oct. 7, Tues. HUllS 4:30P.M. or contact Professors: Kaplan G.eorge Boyer Weiss Morris I '

' - ' Page8 CONCORDIENSIS, September 15; 1986 <Jlnn.rorbtrnsis Fo/JI'Ukcl al timon Collqj~ /877 --~~------ -------- Should· Athletes Sign Drug-Test Waivers? How would you feel if Union College a~uthorities forced you to submit yourself to mandatory drug testing at this very moment? Well, in many ways, the institution of a drug testing consent form has forced student-athletes at Union into a situation that un~ dermines their personal liberties. This form, wllich each athlete must sign prior to the date of the first game of the season, states that if an athlete participates in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) post season pl~y, they can be subject to random drug testing · at the site ofthe competition. If tb.e player tests ''positive\ he or she will be ineligible for post season play for 90 days thereafter. U:p<ln further testing, the athlete may be suspended for that season and the succeeding season. In order to question the morality of this type of testing, we must first inspect its broader implications for society. Drug abuse is one of the most serious problems that affects the future of America. Ad- diction to drugs is America's number one health problem today; the problem cuts across all social classes and affects productivity on the job and in school, and every day at least two people die from cocaine intoxieation. The Reagan Admnistration and Congress have come out strongly with· dollars and rhetoric advocating reforms to conquer the drug abuse problern. Many federal and private employees have been forced to submit themselves to random drug testing. H()wever, the answer to our problem is not drug testing, but mandatory drug education If the Union College Administration forced all of its employees and students to· submit to drug testing, the values that the college has set forth would be com- promised. The liberality of education and the liberality of hlllllan rights should be equated. Moreover, the right of individual freedom is an im- portant one that should not be challenged at any level. If students on the campus submit themselves to drug testing, what else will they submit themselves to be tested for? Could they be tested for whether they abide by the proper religion? Could they be tested for whether they have engaged in sexual activities? like a McCarthy \witch hunt'' there is no place for , mandatory drug testing on the campus. The way to eliminate drug abuse is through educational programs that can reiterate how harmful drugs are. If a student could talk face to face with a person whose life had been destroyed physically and mentally because of the abuse of drugs, the effect of that person. would have an everlasting ~pression. The enforcement of random drug testing upon a select group of students on this campus is simply unacceptable. Like an Orwellian Big Brother figure, the NCAA has enforced mandatory drug testing on our tournament~bound athletes. This ~hould simply not be tolerated. False Advertsing This year tlle Admissions Office has published an attractive. new brochure which promotes Union to • prospective students. As well as providing a biief outline .of the conege history, this brochure boasts of the n1any benefits Union has to offer. They include a statement co11cerning class size. \Classes at Union generally are small (the median class size is thir- teen)\ which is at very least extremely misleading. ·The issue concerning projected ''median\ class size has been addressed so frequently that it has become difficult to enthusiastically fight for the cause. However, the brochure continues to present this misleading information, and the freshmen coming to Union expecting their average class size to be thir- teen will be sorely disappointed. Average ·class size is calculated by dividing the total number of classes by the total of students enrolled in these classes. This information would provide a much more realistic picture of class size at Union than the figure they used. Median class size is calculated by compiling a list of each class offered at Union (including the many independe'pt studies, which count as classes of one student) in order o_f. the num~er of st':ldents enroll~.d. The median class Is the one m the nuddle of the list. However this figure is considerably lower than what the average class si~e really ~s. How can Union College, in .good conscience, c~ntmue to present such deceptive material to prospective freshmen,? .... ~ . . . Feminism is- Not a Dirty Word · To the Editor: Uh oh. not again. That dirty word with connotations worse than most of the swear words we know. As I become in- creasingly aware of exactly how dirty a subject this actually is, I am inspired to write. Since school began, a mere two weeks ago, I have encountered various definitions and attitudes about feminism which lead me only to believe that things are hurtling backward at lightning speed to an era where the PhyUis Schlafly' s of the world have once again become the modern woman's re>le model. And . . . ' frankly; I arn ·frightened. WQy does feminism either im- mediately mean SQmething militant and radical (you know, those bra btll'ning, man hating, castrating b ... ) or something to be quickly dismissed With soi:ne sort of contempt as ridiculous (What's the fight, Lady; Why are you mstigating, again)? I have ~orne u.p against these feelihgs not only frotn men but also from . women; women afraid to beassociated with this negative· label, afraid to ·be lumped in with the stereotype. When did standing up for your rights and what you believe in become contemptible? (Am I in America?) What's the basis for this . negativism-have people simply ceased to think for themselves? I would like to say that. yes, I am a feminist and very committed to feminism. I also happen to like men. Even crazier, I li~e women (don't you?)-I thin~ we are OK! I happen to tllink :we should have equality, not be dominated, .subordinated o:r oppressed. iS THIS SO RADICAL? Sigrid Juncker '87 COMMENTARIES. An I-ssue of Criminal Justice ByPAULSCIIOP This week's analysis focuses on the·gubernatorial campaign. Last May, · this paper in- terviewed Michael Kavanagh, who has since that time gone on to become the Republican nominee for Lt. Govern()r. At that time, Mr. Kavanagh ex- pressed his opinion about Governor Cuomo's decisiC.n to grant clemency to Gary McGivern. Mr. Kavanagh felt that Mr. McGivern should serve out his entire 25 to life term for felony murder, a crime which he was convicted of in 1969. In the interest of impartiality, Concordiensis has given Governor Cuomo an op- portunity to respond to Mr. Kavanagh. The following is· an interview that was recently conducted with Mr. Lawrence Kurlander, the governor's spokesman for criminal justice issues: Q. Last May, Ulster County DA Michael Kavanagh, during an interview with Con· cordtensis, stated that Governor Cuomo has not given a real explanatibn, in an in- telligent and logical manner, for why Gary McGivern should be granted clemency. He fur- ther stated that the governor's explanations to date have consisted merely of a list of prominent politicians who have concurred with his decision. Can you give such an ex- planation at this time? . A. What we would like from .him :Kavanagh) is something other than hysteria. He has demonstrated an inability to listen and to comprehend. Mr.- Kavanagh bas on a number of occasions in this case indicated that he would accept clemency based · on rehabilitation. He was quoted as saying such in the Poughkeepsie Journal of All letters to the- Etlitor must be typed double- spaced and submiHed by 4 . p~m. each Tuesday llefore .publication. All letters must be signed by no more . than four people and all , · writers should proride . their addresses and phone numbers for rerification of . the letter. Names nor• mally will not be withheld. · Concorcliensis reserves the . right to reiect letters tllat are libelous or do not conform to standard of. good taste. December. 4, 1979, and he . repeated this to me in 1983. I do not know why he is so adamant now. You have to ask hUn. . The Governor has repeatedly said that a great number of people, well respected people who are .learned on this issue, have looked at this case with extraordinary care and believe that be is iil.noc~nt. That goes into the equation. This man, over the l~st 17 years, has made some extraordinary ad- justments, ptt>ving that he has been rehabilitated. · To answer the question, you must loo~ at both factors, the rehabilitation and the advice of the experts. On July 20, ()n the PBS series Firing Line, new evidence was revealed, which, if true, would be strong eviden«;e to contradict Westchester County Sheriff's Deputy Singer's testimony. (Interviewer's note, this testimQny was important in convicting McGivern of the felony murder of Deputy Fit- zgerald.) Also, McGivern was con- victed of felony murder, and not first degree murder. Q. Does the governor feel that granting McGivern clemency is in any way in contradiction with his policy of sentencing con- victed murderers to life im- prisonment without parole, a policy that he has advocated throughout his first term? If it does not contradict, then why? A. Clemency is an ex- traordinary remedy. It is utilized only in extraordinary cases. lYiany governors who believe in the death penalty have commuted a death sen- tence, because they have . felt that it was inappropriate. The same thing .is true With Governor Cuomo. He believes that there should be life with1>ut parole for convicted murderers. Howevet·, in particular cases, the governor feels that he should be able to use his con- stitutiomll power · to grant clemency, such as this one. In 1985, for example, the year in which Cuomo granted clemency to McGiVern, several thousand applications were made to the governor for clemency; Only· three were approved. In 1984, he granted only seven. None were . .granted to violent criminals. · As of this week, there are only six weeks left until Election Day. For those of you who are registered to vote in New York State but who wish to vote absentee, contact the Schenectady CoWity Board of Elections at 382-3235, for more information on how to get your ballot. Since the deadline for absentee voting is quickly approaching, call as soon as possihle. If you are currently not registered by vote, it is J>QSSible to register to vote by mail in New York State. To find out if you are eligible to register in this fashion, call the local Board of Elections at the above number as soon as possible.

Page8 CONCORDIENSJS, September 25, 1986 Olnnrnrbtrnsis Fowukci al { imon Coii'Wc 187-:' ------------ -------- Should Athletes Sign Drug- Test Waivers? How would you feel if Union College authorities forced you to submit yourself to mandatory drug testing at this very moment? Well, in many ways, the institution of a drug testing consent form has forced student-athletes at Union into a situation that un- dermines their personal liberties. This form, which each athlete must sign prior to the date of the first game of the season, states that if an athlete participates in National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) post season play, they can be subject to random drug testing at the site ofthe competition. If the player tests \positive\ he or she will be ineligible for post season play for 90 days thereafter. Upon further testing, the athlete may be suspended for that season and the succeeding season. In order to question the morality of this type of testing, we must first inspect its broader implications for society. Drug abuse is one of the most serious problems that affects the future of America. Ad- diction to drugs is America's number one health problem today; the problem cuts across all social classes and affects productivity on the job and in school, and every day at least two people die from cocaine intoxication. The Reagan Admnistration and Congress have come out strongly with dollars and rhetoric advocating reforms to conquer the drug abuse problem. Many federal and private employees have been forced to submit themselves to random drug testing. However, the answer to our problem is not drug testing, but mandatory drug education If the Union College Administration forced all of its employees and students to submit to drug testing, the values that the college has set forth would be com- promised. The liberality of education and the liberality of hwnan rights should be equated. Moreover, the right of individual freedom is an im- portant one that should not be challenged at any level. If students on the campus submit themselves to drug testing, what else will they submit themselves to be tested for? Could they be tested for whether they abide by the proper religion? Could they be tested for whether they have engaged in sexual activities? Like a McCarthy \witch huntt' there is no place for mandatory drug testing on the campus. The way to eliminate drug abuse is through educational programs that can reiterate how harmful drugs are. If a student could talk face to face with a person whose life had been destroyed physically and mentally because of the abuse of drugs, the effect of that person would have an everlasting ~pression. The enforcement of random drug testing upon a select group of students on this campus is simply unacceptable. Like an Orwellian Big Brother figure, the NCAA has enforced mandatory drug testing on our tournament-bound athletes. This should simply not be tolerated. False Advertsing This year the Admissions Office has published an attractive. new brochure which promotes Union to prospective students. As well as providing a brief outline of the college history, this brochure boasts of the many benefits Union has to offer. They include a statement concerning class size. \Classes at Union generally are small (the median class size is thir- teen)\ which is at very least extremely misleading. ·The issue concerning projected \median\ class size has been addressed so frequently that it has become difficult to enthusiastically fight for the cause. However, the brochure continues to present this misleading information, and the freshmen coming to Union expecting their average class size to be thir- teen will be sorely disappointed. Average class size is calculated by dividing the total number of classes by the total of students enrolled in these classes. This information would provide a much more realistic picture of class size at Union than the figure they used. Median class size is calculated by compiling a list of each class offered at Union (including the many independent studies, which count as classes of one student) in order ~f the nwn~er of st';ldents enroll~d. The median class Is the one m the rruddle of the hst. However this figure is considerably lower than what the average class si~e really ~s. How can Union College, in good conscience, c~ntmue to present such deceptive material to prospective freshmen? LETTERS Feminism is Not a Dirty Word To the Editor: Uh oh. not again. That dirty word with connotations worse than most of the swear words we know. As I become in- creasingly aware of exactly how dirty a subject this actually is, I am inspired to write. Since school began, a mere two weeks ago, I have encountered various definitions and attitudes about feminism which lead me only to believe that things are hurtling backward at lightning speed t<:> an era where the Phyllis Schlafly's of the world have once again become the modern weman's role model. And, frankly, I am frightened. Why does feminism either im- mediately mean something militant and radical (you know, those bra burning, man hating, castrating b ... ) or something to be quickly dismissed with some sort of contempt as ridiculous (What's the fight, Lady; Why are you instigating, again)? I have come up against these feelings not only from men but also from women; women afraid to be associated with this negative label, afraid to be lumped in with the stereotype. When did standing up for your rights and what yeu believe in become contemptible? (Am I in America?) What's the basis for this negativism-have people simply ceased to think for themselves? I would like to say that yes, I am a feminist and very cemmitted to feminism. I also happen to like men. Even crazier, I like women (don't y<:>u? )-I think we are OK! I happen to think we should have equality, not be dominated, subordinated or oppressed. IS THIS SO RADICAL? Sigrid Juncker '87 COMMENTARIES An Issue of Criminal Justice ByPAULSCHOP This week's analysis focuses on the gubernatorial campaign. Last May, this paper in- terviewed Michael Kavanagh, who has since that time gone on to become the Republican nominee for Lt. Governor. At that time, Mr. Kavanagh ex- pressed his opinion about Governor Cuomo's decision to grant clemency to Gary McGivern. Mr. Kavanagh felt that Mr. McGivern should serve out his entire 25 to life term for felony murder, a crime which he was convicted of in 1969. In the interest of impartiality, Concordiensis has given Governor Cuomo an op- portunity to respond to Mr. Kavanagh. The following is an interview that was recently conducted with Mr. Lawrence Kurlander, the governor's spokesman for criminal justice issues: Q. Last May, Ulster County DA Michael Kavanagh, during an interview with Con· cordiensis, stated that Governor Cuomo has not given a real explanation, in an in- telligent and logical manner, for why Gary McGivern should be granted clemency. He fur- ther stated that the governor's explanations to date have consisted merely of a list of prominent politicians who have concurred with his decision. Can you give such an ex- planation at this time? A. What we would like from him :Kavanagh) is something other than hysteria. He has demonstrated an inability to listen and to comprehend. Mr. Kavanagh has on a number of occasions in this case indicated that he would accept clemency based on rehabilitation. He was quoted as saying such in the Poughkeepsie Journal of All letters to the Editor must be typed double· spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nor• molly will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect leHers that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. December 4, 1979, and he repeated this to me in 1983. I do not know why he is so adamant now. You have to ask him. The Governor has repeatedly said that a great number of people, well respected people who are learned on this issue, have looked at this case with extraordinary care and believe that he is innocent. That goes into the equation. This man, over the last 17 years, has made some extraordinary ad- justments, proving that he has been rehabilitated. To answer the question, you must look at both factors, the rehabilitation and the advice of the experts. On July 20, on the PBS series Firing Line, new evidence was revealed, which, if true, would be strong evidence to contradict Westchester County Sheriff's Deputy Singer's testimony. (Interviewer's note, this testimony was important in convicting McGivern of the felony murder of Deputy Fit- zgerald.) Also, McGivern was con- victed of felony murder, and not first degree murder. Q. Does the governor feel that granting McGivern clemency is in any way in contradiction with his policy of sentencing con- victed murderers to life im- prisonment without parole, a policy that he has advocated throughout his first term? If it does not contradict, then why? A. Clemency is an ex- traordinary remedy. It is utilized only in extraordinary cases. Many governors who believe in the death penalty have commuted a death sen- tence, because they have felt that it was inappropriate. The same thing is true with Governor Cuomo. He believes that there should be life without parole for convicted murderers. However, in particular cases, the governor feels that he should be able to use his con- stitutional power to grant clemency, such as this one. In 1985, for example, the year in which Cuomo granted clemency to McGivern, several thousand applications were made to the governor for clemency. Only three were approved. In 1984, he granted only seven. None were granted to violent criminals. As of this week, there are only six weeks left until Election Day. For those of you who are registered to vote in New York State but who wish to vote absentee, contact the Schenectady County Board of Elections at 382-3235, for more information on how to get your ballot. Since the deadline for absentee voting is quickly approaching, call as soon as possible. If you are currently not registered by vote, it is possible to register to vote by mail in New York State. To find out if you are eligible to register in this fashion, call the local Board of Elections at the above number as soon as possible. I ·' I

I '' ' ! l i ,j j CONCORDlENSIS, September 15, 1986 Page9 New Drinking Policy Proposed By J:ASON GREENE. This proposal seeks to create a new drinlQng policy at Union College wbich addresses .itself to the concerns that led to the change in the New York drinking age. Because Union's 'drinking policy has not been tailored · to the concerns of drinking and driving, it is flawed and needs to be changed.· By failing to recogn~e the hazards of drink driving and attempting to eliminate t}le .possibility of a fatal or injurious accident, the present policy puts the Greek system in a dangerous position. Each house isliable fortheguests who drink at the fraternity house, and yet as it now stands, we have no idea what a guest. will do .once b.e leaves the house. For all that we know, the guest may climb into a car. By not knowing what a guest may do, hosts are, . in effect, blindly liable for whatever may bappen to that :guest. This proposal is an at- tempt to change that. It serves the best interest of each house to join in the· support of thiS policy, and serves the best interests of the student body for tbe ~tudent Forum to ·support and endorse a policy which seeks to put an end to drunk driving~ By adhering to the guidelines Df this policy, responsibility is shared between the fraternity and the guest. H()uses will still be liable for the actions of their :guests, but under this policy, houses will know_ prior to ad- mittmg a student to a function that he will neither enter nor ~rive~ vemcl<t,after ~tt,el}.<llqg a function at which a1cohol has been provided. Thi~ woulq apply to thOse under age as well, since they are allowed into .the function, but are not aUowed to drink under state law .. While not eliminating the host's liability, enforcement of this policy by the individual hous.es themselves will substantially reduce the . actual likelihood of any liability baving to be assumed by a fraternity in the .event of an accident. Under this policy, and with the cooperation ()f all of the Greeks, no one will be admitted to a function without the student having already agreed to the conditions ,Df the contract described below. This is a serious proposal and can help every house and every student. It will save lives, save money, and will make it easier, not harder, to have a controlled party. This is what is proposed: 1. A policy to be devised-which places an explicit responsibility not only on those who serve alcohol, but as well on those. who attend those fWlctions at which alcohol is served. 2. A contract to be drawn u~ with. the participation of Faculty, Administrators, and Students, that will explain that students will neither enter a vehicle, n()r will they drive a vehicle after having consumed alcohol served by an organization affiliated with Union College. Furthermore, the student would be requir~d to agree to a provisiop that he would inform the office of the Dean of Students of any violation of that agreement, whether by that student him- self, or by any other student who he has witnessed to be in violation of that · agreement. Sanctions, such as automatic . disbannent from any future activities at Union College at which alcohol would be served, would be assumed by the in- dividual houses on their· own initiative against those whom the house feels are a liability risk. 3. In order to be allowed even the right to be considered to be invited to a party organized by any organizatioq_ at which alcohol will be served, the student would be obllgated to read the agreeroent in the presence of ~ official of the ·College, answer questions that would determine his•her soundness ·Of mind, .a competent understanding of the agreement, and that the nature of his agreement to the terms,. conditions and penalties ex- pressed in the agreement were not through force ·but by volition. Acceptance pf the terms, conditions and penalties of the agreement would then be witnessed by the student by ~lgning h~her_ signa~w-e tQ the agreement: The student's Sigmiture woQld -then be ac- companied by the signature of the Union College official, such as a notary public, whose signature carried the weight of Law. · · · 4. Students having agreed to the terms, conditions and ·penalties of the agreement would then be entitled to . be invited to any activity organized by any organization affiliated with and incluiling Union College at. which alcoholic beverages would be available. A computerized list would be prepared listing the students names, age, year of graquation, date of .agreement and status as to a_ny violation of the agreement. A fully updated list would be issued to each house in time to be discussed at. the last house meeting of each. month. At that time, brothers- sisters would have . the op- portunity to look at the list, see who hasviolated the agreement, and within the house, decide which people who have violated the agreement would be allowed to enter a function, as well as those who would be denied entrance. 5.. Any violations of the agreement would be reported to the Office of the Dean of Students. Any penalty adjudged against the violating student would be included in the computer lists. Admission to a partyof those who have already been found in violation of the agreement but whose name remains on the list would be at the discretion of the members of the organization. Any violation of that responsibility by an organization would be cause for a hearing and possible punitive action against the organization through the Greek Council. 6. Upon admission to the party, each student would be required to place his initials next to his name. This policy, though full of procedures and protocols, is nevertheless one which is fair ,and comprehensive. It places responsibility for maintaining order on the organization which organizes (he party, and as well, places responsibility on the student who attends the party. Those of age who are ~erved alcohol will be served with tbe knowledge that they have signed an · agreement which pledges them to agree to its conditions. Those students un~er age would be admitted with the knowledge that at- tending the party would forbid them from entering or driving a car. The policy makes it quite clear that not a single student would be served ~lcohol at a function in the absence of a signed agreement to the terms, conditions and. p~nalties of the policy. Any violation of that· trust would be the sole responsibility of the student. This policy does not in any way minimize the role that hosts must play and the responsibility they must bear. If anything, that role is made more vitally important and that respon- sibility enhanced. Campus organizations and the College will find it to their benefit if they adhere .to the requirements of the policy. This policy at least puts an obstacle between the student of age and the car he' might decide to drive after ~attending a party. This could be enforced within the houses themselves. The i>nly role that would be assumed by the school would be the actual registration of students to the termsofthe agreer,ne.nt,,and the updating of lists. This is an attempt within the student body it-self to assume the respon- sibility for policing our own campus. Faculty members who have seen the proposal think that it is innovative, en- forceable. by the houses, and would be welcomed by the rest of the faculty. 11 0pen Mike NightS''' - 9 : oo p. m . -1 : oo a. m . OCDR Sponsored by Student Activities & Dining Services Reserve your act and your date now by filling out and returning to the SAO (OC 3) the form below.· Return by Sept. 29 for the Sept. 30 show. \Ope~ Mike Night\ Name~~------~----~~--------------------~--------~--- Phone~-----------------------------~---------------------- Box ______________ ~--------------------~~-----~-------- Type of Talent------'---------~----:----~-~--~-- COMMENTARIES D.U. ·to Be Off Campus The Delta Upsilon Fraternity will lose their lease at their current residence in Potter House. The only question remaining is when they will ' have to vacatethe premises. As of Tuesday. evening the Union College admin.istration had not issued an official statement inflicting punishment against the Delta Upsilon fraternity for having an . unauthorized gathering on Saturday, September 6, which ~iolated their social probation. However, all the facts do indeed indicate \DU\ will lose a battle they may not deserve to lose. Tuesday afternoon, Dean of Students Joseph ·Mammola confirmed tbe cQllege will take action against the Delta Upsilon fraternity, but a final decision still had not been reached. Considering the letter issued by the administration last · spring to Sean Duffy, president of Delta Upsilon, which clearly states \the violations of social probation or any other section of the student conduct code will result in the termination of your building lease with the college and the immediate loss of ona · campus housing for the entire fraternity.'' The letter clearly gives the Delta Upsilon fraternity an ultimatum. Furthermore tak- ing any disciplinary action other than what was clearly indicated in the letter would show extreme weakness on the · part of the administration. But,. the school has been slow in rendering an official decision • because ~or the ··att~Yil'pt .by the . Delta Upsilon brothers and their Alumni trustees to show · the administration that Delta Upsilon is in a transition period, and eventually will be a Delta Upsilon undeserving of the negative stereotype it now receives from the campus administration. Delta Upsilon has sub- mitted a 15 page document to the administration that outlines a systematic plan for improving the fraternity. Moreover, more than two-thirds of the current brothers are sophomores, who were not involved in the in- cidents that put Delta Upsilon on social probation. \I see the house changing, the rowdy people have graduated, and the crazy antics have stopped. The internal structure of our house is better than it's ever been since I've been here\ said Duffy. \Students are willing to visit D.U. now because the old stereotype is no longer there.\ -Another point that must be considered is the College's housing problem. With five man suites, three man doubles, and students living in lounges, as well as, the Gamma Phi Beta Sorority and Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity looking for houses, some administrators surely must believe because of Delta Upsilon's past behavior, there are others more deserving of DU's living space. Dean Mammola states \there is no relationship between the housing situation at Union, and the Delta Upsilon situation.\ Delta Upsilon has locked their bar, frozen their account with the beer distributor, and has severly changed their outlook on the manner in which their fraternity will conduct them- selves in the future. Never- theless, even with their new attitude, and the different breed of men that are now brothers, the college will take away their lease. Watson Fellowship .. Y Questions and Answers. about the Watson Fellowship \Vhat is tbe Watson? Since 191W the Thomas J. Watson Foundation has each year awarded 70 fellow!lhips, currently worth $11,000 each, to graduating seniors from ap- . proximately 50 small liberal arts colleges. The money funds travel outside North America iil the year following graduation. The fellowships, in the words of the Folindation \provide Fellows an opportunity for a focused and · disciplined Wanderjahrof their own devising-time in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and , abilities, view their lives and A,merican society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more informed sense of international concern.'' Is ittoo late-t~t\apply? .~ ,. · · - . Not at all. Applications are due to Prof. Klein, Economics Dept, by October 6. '• How do I apply? Write up your proposal in 4-6 pages, and ask two people to write letters of recommendation. At least one of the letters should be from someone who can judge not just you, but also your proposed project. What are my odds o{ winning? . Th.at depends on how many people apply. Typically, there are 20 to 25 ap- plicants from Union, and we usually have one, and sometimes two, winners from Union. T.hose are pretty good odds. · What sorts of projects are appropriate for tile 'Watson? Quoting tbe Foundation: \The proj~d should involve investigation into !in area of demonstrated concern and personal commitment. Furthermore, because the year's experience should not involve extended formal study at a formal university, the project shouldbe one which can be pursued with great independepce and adaptability. In short, the project should be personally significant, imaginative, and feasible!' It would help the selection com- mittee if you could be as specific as possible, particularly with regard to the personal significance of your project,.and its feasibility. You mighnike to look over lists of past winning projects, contained in a folder on reserve in Schaffer Library. The folder, labeled \Watson is on reserve for Prof. Klein. Won't the Watson interfere with my career plans? It depends on how you define ''interfere.\ If you have a job offer, or have been accepted at graduate school, your slot will certainly be held for the year you are away on the Watson. If you do not have a job lined up, or a grad school acceptance, winning the Watson can only help your p~;ospects. The prestige of winning a Watson, plus the experience which you Will gain, can only enha11ceyour career. Wllo do I see for mere information? Contact Prof. Klein, Economics Dept. (Room 109, x6056 or X6228), or any other member of the Watson committee: Prof. Ruth Anne Evans, Library; Prof. Jordan Smith, English; Pr9f. George Gmelch, Sociology/An· thropology.; Prof. Rao Gwtter, Mechanical Engineering. Other members of the faculty, friends, even family might help in planning your project.

! ' { I i: ' I I' i ,. I L ! f CONCORDIENSJS, September 25, 191l6 Page9 New Drinking Policy Proposed By JASON GREENE This proposal seeks to create a new drinking policy at Unian College which addresses itself to the concerns that led to the change in the New York drinking age. Because Union's drinking palicy has not been tailored to the concerns of drin.king and driving, it is flawed and needs to be changed. By failing to recognize the hazards of drink driving and attempting to eliminate the possibility of a fatal or injurious accident, the present policy puts the Greek system in a dangerous position. Each house is liable for the guests who drink at the fraternity house, and yet as it now stands, we have no idea what a guest will do once he leaves the house. For all that we know, the guest may climb into a car. By not knowing what a guest may do, hosts are, in effect, blindly liable for whatever may happen to that guest. This proposal is an at- tempt to change that. It serves the best interest of each house to join in the support of this policy, and serves the best interests of the student body for the Student Forum to support and endorse a policy which seeks to put an end to drunk driving. By adhering to the guidelines of this policy, responsibility is shared between the fraternity and the guest. Houses will still be liable for the actions of their guests, but un.der this policy, houses will know prior to ad- mitting a student to a function that he will neither enter nor drive a vehicle after attending a function at which alcohol has been provided. This would apply to those under age as well, since they are allowed into the function, but are not allowed to drink under state law. While not eliminating the host's liability, enforcement of this policy by the individual houses themselves will substantially reduce the actual likelihood of any liability having to be assumed by a fraternity in the event of an accident. Under this policy, and with the cooperation of all of the Greeks, no one will be admitted to a function without the student having already agreed to the conditions of the contract described below. This is a serious proposal and can help every house and every student. It will save lives, save money, and will make it easier, not harder, to have a controlled party. This is what is proposed: 1. A policy to be devised-which places an explicit responsibility not only on those who serve alcohol, but as well on those who attend those functions at which alcohol is served. 2. A contract to be drawn up with the participation of Faculty, Administrators, and Students, that will explain that students will neither enter a vehicle, nor will they drive a vehicle after having consumed alcohol served by an organization affiliated with UnioN College. Furthermore, the student would be required to agree to a provision that he would inform the office of the Dean of Students of any violation of that agreement, whether by that student him- self, or by any other student who he has witnessed to be in violation of that agreement. Sanctions, such as automatic disbarment from any future activities at UNion College at which alcohol would be served, WQuld be assumed by the irl- dividual houses on their own initiative against those whom the house feels are a liability risk. 3. In order to i:)e allowed even the right to be considered to ae invited to a party organized by any organization at which alcohol will be served, the student would be obligated to read the agreement in the presence of an official of the College, answer questions that would determine his-her soundness of mind, a competent understanding of the agreement, and that the nature of his agreement to the terms, conditions and penalties ex- pressed in the agreement were not through force but by volition. Acceptance of the terms, conditions and penalties of the agreement would then be witnessed by the student by signing his .. her signature to the agreement. The student's signature would then be ac- companied by the signature of the Union College official, such as a notary public, whose signature carried the weight of Law. 4. Students having agreed to the terms, conditions and penalties of the agreement would then be entitled to be invited to any activity organized by any organization affiliated with and including Union College at which alcoholic beverages would be available. A computerized list would be prepared listing the students names, age, year of graduation, date of agreement and status as to any violation of the agreement. A fully updated list would be issued to each house in time to be discussed at the last house meeting of each month. At that time, brothers- sisters would have the op- portunity to look at the list, see who hasviolated the agreement, and within the house, decide which people who have violated the agreement would be allowed to enter a function, as well as those who would be denied entrance. 5. Any violations of the agreement would be reported to the Office of the Dean of Students. Any penalty adjudged against the violating student would be included in the computer lists. AdmissiQn to a party of those who have already been found in violation of the agreement but whose name remains on the list would be at the discretion of the members of the organization. Any violation of that responsibility by an organization would be cause for a hearing and possible punitive action against the organization through the Greek Council. 6. Upon admission to the party, each student would be required te place his initials next to his name. This policy, though full of procedures and protocols, is nevertheless one which is fair and comprehensive. It places responsibility for maintaining order on the organization which organizes the party, and as well, places responsibility on the student who attends the party. Those of age who are served alcohol will be served with the knowledge that they have signed an agreement which pledges them to agree to its conditions. Those students under age would be admitted with the knowledge that at- tending the party would forbid them from entering or driving a car. The policy makes it quite clear that not a single student would be served alcohol at a function in the absence of a signed agreement to the terms, conditions and penalties of the policy. Any violation of that trust would be the sole responsibility of the student. This policy does not in any way minimize the role that hosts must play and the responsibility they must bear. If anything, that role is made more vitally important and that respon- sibility enhanced. Campus organizations and the College will find it to their benefit if they adhere to the requirements of the policy. This policy at least puts an obstacle between the student of age and the car he might decide to drive after -attending a party. This could be enforced within the houses themselves. The 0nly role that would be assumed by the school would be the actual registration of students to the terms of the agreement, and the updating of lists. This is an attempt within the student body itself to assume the respon- sibility for policing our own campus. Faculty members who have seen the proposal think that it is innovative, en- forceable by the houses, and would be welcomed by the rest of the faculty. \Open Mike Nights\ 9 : 00 p. m . - 1 : 00 a . m. OCDR Sponsored by Student Activities & Dining Services Reserve your act and your date now by filling out and returning to the SAO (OC 3) the form below. Return by Sept. 29 for the Sept. 30 show. \Open Mike Night\ Name ________________________________________________________ __ Phone ________________________________________________________ __ Box ----------------------------------------------------------- Type of Talent _______________________________________________ __ COMMENTARIES D. U. to Be Off Campus By CHARLIE SLOTNIK 'The Delta Upsilon Fraternity will lose their lease at their current residence in Potter House. The only question remaining is when they will have to vacate the premises. As of Tuesday evening the Union CoHege administration had not issued an official statement inflicting punishmeat against the Delta Upsilon fraternity for having an unauthorized gathering Qn Saturday, September 6, which violated their social probation. However, all the facts do indeed indicate \DU\ will lose a battle they may not deserve to lose. Tuesday afternoon, Dean of Students Joseph ·Mammola confirmed the college will take action against the Delta Upsilon fraternity, but a final decision still had not been reached. Considering the letter issued by the administration last spring to Sean Duffy, president of Delta Upsilon, which clearly states \the violations of social probation or any other section of the student conduct code will result in the termination of your building lease with the college and the immediate loss of on- campus housing for the entire fraternity.\ The letter clearly gives the Delta Upsilon fraternity an ultimatum. Furthermore tak- ing any disciplinary action other than what was clearly indicated in the letter would show extreme weakness on the part of the administration. But, the school has been slow in rendering an official decision because of the attempt by the Delta Upsilon brothers and their Alumni trustees to show the administration that Delta Upsilon is in a transition period, and eventually will be a Delta Upsilon undeserving of the negative stereotype it now receives from the campus adlninistratien. Delta Upsilon has sub- mitted a 15 page docwnent to the adrninistratien that ~mtlines a systematic plan for improving the fraternity. Moreover, more than two-thirds of the current brothers are sophomores, who were not involved in the in~ cidents that put Delta Upsilon on social probatian. \I seethe house changing, the rowdy people have gradaated, and the crazy antics have stopped. The internal structure of our house is better than it's ever been since I've been here\ said Duffy. \Students are willing to visit D.U. now because the old stereotype is no longer there.\ Another point that must be considered is the College's housing problem. With five man suites, three man doubles, and students living in lounges, as well as, the Gamma Phi Beta Sorority and Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity looking for houses, some administrators surely must believe because of Delta Upsilon's past behavior, there are others more deserving of DU's living space. Dean Mammola states ''there is no relationship between the housing situation at Union, and the Delta Upsilon situation.\ Delta Upsilon has locked their bar, frozen their account with the beer distributor, and has severly changed their outlook on the manner in which their fraternity will conduct them- selves in the future. Never- theless, even with their new attitude, and the different breed of men that are now brothers, the college will take away their lease. Watson Fellowship~-s Questions and Answers about the Watson Fellowship What is the Watson? Since 1968 the Thomas J_ Watson Foundation has each year awarded 70 fellowships, currently worth $11,000 each, to graduating seniors from ap- proximately 50 small liberal arts colleges_ The money funds travel outside North America in the year following graduation. The fellowships, in the words of the Foundation \provide Fellows an opportunity for a focused and disciplined Wanderjahrof their own devising-time in which they might explore with thoroughness a particular interest, test their aspirations and abilities, view their lives and American society in greater perspective, and concomitantly, develop a more informed sense of international concern.'' Is it too late to apply? . Not at all. Applications are due to Prof_ Klein, Economics Dept, by October 6. How do I apply? Write up your proposal in 4-t: pages, and ask two people to write letters of recommendation. At least one of the letters should be from someone who can judge not just you, but also your proposed project. What are my odds of winning? That depends on how many people apply. Typically, there are 20 to 25 ap- plicants from Union, and we usually have one, and sometimes two, winners from Union. Those are pretty good odds. What sorts of projects are appropriate for tbe Watson? Quoting the Foundation: \The proj('rt should involve investigation into 'ln area of demonstrated concern and personal commitment. Furthermore, because the year's experience should not involve extended formal study at a formal university, the project shouldbe one which can be pursued with great independence and adaptability. In short, the project should be personally significant, imaginative, and feasible.\ It would help the selection com- mittee if you could be as specific as possible, particularly with regard to the personal significance of your project, and its feasibility. You might like to look over lists of past winning projects, contained in a folder on reserve in Schaffer Library. The folder, labeled \Watson is on reserve for Prof- Klein. Won't the Watson interfere with my career plans? It depends on how you define \interfere.\ If you have a job offer, or have been accepted at graduate school, your slot will certainly be held for the year you are away on the Watson. If you do not have a job lined up, or a grad school acceptance, winning the Watson can only help your prospects. The prestige of winning a Watson, plus the experience which you will gain, can only enhance your career. Who do I see for m()re Information? Contact Prof. Klein, Economics D~pt. (Room 109, x6056 or x62UI), or any otller member of the Watson conuruttee: Prof. Ruth Anne Evans, Library; Prof. Jordan Smith, English; Pr~f. George Gmelch, Sociology/An- thropology; Prof. Rao Gunter, Mechanical Engineering. Other members of the faculty, friends, even family might help in planning your project f ' ' ' ' • ' ' • • • ~. '. • ' ' • • ' • I . ' . • \' ' . '

·Page 10 CONCORDiENSIS, Septem,ber 25, 1986 I J.ewish High Holiday Services Community Synagogues Orthodox- Congregation Beth 'Israel 2195 Eastern Parkway Conservative- Congregation Agudat Achim 2117 Union Street Reform - Temple Gates of Heaven 842 Ashmore Ave. and Eastern Parkway ... I.E.F. Deadline · The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in. two categories.,._student-iDitia.ted resea.rch projects and \educajionally innovative projects'' is F.riday, October lOth. Proposa.ls for student-initiated research projects must have the writteh approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The .proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (.SlOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms avai.lable there. Anyone interested in advance arrangements for home hospitality or transportation as well as times and dates ()f services, please contact Stacey Stieglitz (x44014) Similarly, members Of the College community who have \educationally innovative'' proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Pep Band Needs Musicians To Join Us For The Rem.aining Home Football Games Come To Rehersa/1: Wednesday, Oct. 1 9 P.M. in AB313 Burning the midnight oil may be necessary. Burning the 2:00 or 3:00 _ or 4:00AM oil is absurd. Especially when an HP calculator can get the answers you want- in time to get a good night's sleep. For instance, our HP-15C Professional Scientific Calculator has more bui1t-in advanced math and statistical power than any other calculator. Our HP-41 Advanced Scientific Calculators have even more potential. PC12602 I I i Dean's office (5100). · Guidelines With respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. lnqujiries about I.E.F .. , the guid.elines, or the proposal :deadlihe should be directedto Dean Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please· remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available .. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. Faculty Research Deadline The Subcouncil on Research and Grants .is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Ap- plications and guidelines are available in Dean Weiner's office (5100/S & E).· Tile deadline· for submission of proposals is Friday, October lOth. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Weiner. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to$50.00 per_ day. Tr;;rnsportation costs should also reflect the b.est rates available. · · That's because there are better than 2500software packages available for them- more than for any other calculatoi'. There's even a special plug-in software package (we call it the Advantage Module) that's designed to handle the specific problems an engineering student has to solve in his, or her, course work. No wonder professionals in engineering and the physical sciences widely regard HP ~alculators as the best you can get. So check one out. Then, when your mother calls to ask if you're getting enough sleep, you won't have to lie. By the way, if yoq want more information,just give us a call at 800-FOR-HPPC. Ask for Dept.658C. Ft.~ HEWLETT L~.A PACKARD

CONCORDJENSIS, September 25, 1986 Page 11 SCIENCE, .HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Foreplay (What· you sho~ld do: before you play) By A.J.QELF AND I believe Meatloaf said it best when he wrote; stop right now, before we go any further,. do you love me? Meatloaf syndrome as I like to call it, has _probably plagued more than a few of us, and will most likely continue to do so as l()ng as unwanted pregnancies are· a factor in our lives. MLS reers Ws ugly ht'!ad when a chance meeting,, movie date, etc., ·turns into an · un- planned night of passion. Not to say I ~pprove of. such a thing, but before this might happen to you there's just one thing I'd like you to know;. 50 percent of pregnancies ill this country are unintended. may be attributed tc the fact that they offer the best defense against sexually transmitted diseases and is extremely ef- fective .in preventing pregnancy when used pro.perly. The diaphragm .wh~n used with spermicide is also somewhat effective against .STDs. The diaphragm is a dome-shaped rubber device which has a flexible rim that ltooks behind the .pelvic bone to cover the cerv~. Though· ext:remely safe to use, it does d{)Jllewhat in- crease the users risk· of toxic- shock SYfldrome 8lld urinai:y- tract infections~ Careful practiced use greatly inc~eases its effectiveness. Its drawbacks lie in its messiness and general yeechihess. - S~cide~rearns, jellies and foams all contai.ll the same active ~gredient, n()noxyn()l•9. T-hey can be used alone~ but are much more effective -when used With a barrier. They may be ·purchased as suppositori.es or tablets, which are tritlky to use due to time factors.. . ring with a .hormone core. It is worn in the vagina' where hormones are abosrobed that inhibit ovulation. YfRH Analouges-This is a. bram chemical that must be taken ·nasally. It halts the release of all sex hormones, turning off the libido and sperm synthesis~ Gossypol-This derivative of cottonseed oil is taken in . pill fottn. It checks the sperm synthesis but does not disrupt hormone production. Inhibin-This is a hDrmone produced by the testes . .It stops the pituitary from releasing FSH so that sperm production is suppressed. All kidding aside; don't put yourself in a bad .situation. Think before you act, and you may end up saving yourself a lot of trouble. Further information is · available at -planned parenthood, located at 150 Corlaer Avenue (3 blocks from school, Webster side). ·Their phone number is 376-4923. . FAILURE RATES OF BIRTH CONTROL METHODS Lowest Observed Failure M•thod Rate(%) Sterilization - QAO - ·- Injectable t2rogestin . 0.25 Combined birth 0.50 control QHIS Progestin-on!~ ~ill 1.0 ·IUD . 1.5 Condom 2.0 · D.iaphragm 2.0 {with SQermicide} • · S.~onge · · 9-11 · Cervical ca2 2.0 Foams, creams, 3-5 -jellies, and Vaginal SUQQOSitories · Coitus interru~tus 16.0 · Fertility-awareness 2-20 ··- technigues NorQiant 0.4 Chance (no method) 90.0 Failure Rate In Typical Users(%.) ·0.40 0.25 '2.0 2.5 5.0 10.0 19.0 10-20 13.0 18.0 . 23'.0 24.0 -. 90.0 Now that I've nunec:t a large part of your day, arid perhaps weekend you ask, what the heck for? Well I wanted to inform those of you who care, or sl;lould care :of SQme alternatives. Your · best bet is celibacy wl;rlch has been proven 100. percent . ef- fective Jigainst .pregnancy and sexually transnntted diseases. Now for the practic:;~l choices; of 30 million women in the United States · who use con- traceptives, 33 percent rely on sterilization, 29 percent· on the Pill, 12 percent on condoms (ya know, rubbers), 8 percent on diaphragms, and until recently Intrauterine Devices {lUDs)-Wheninsetted through the cervix into the ute(us, it inflames the. uterine lining prohibiting eggs from im- planting. IUDs mllst be im- planted by a health technician; Chernobylln Retrospect 7 percent on IDDs. The other 11 percent rely on spermicides, Withdrawal, rhythm and other methods. Sterilization....:....The almost · perfect birth controL After-one small surgical proce.dure, you are almost 100 percent protected with practically no side effects. The o~ly problem is that it is still very difficult to reverse the effect. Oral Contraceptives-Over 10 million women use the Pill in this country~ It works by overruling the hormonal surges and declfues of the menstrual cycle prohibiting the release of an egg from the ovary. The Pill is extremely effective but has a bad name from the side-effects it can cause such as headaches, weight gain, nausea, depression, and missed periods. There are 30 different types of pills one of which may be suitable for you. The Pill has some other positive points. It decreases the ris'k of ovarian and endometrical cancer, benign breast disease, ovarian cysts and pelvic infections. Barrier Methods-Condoms have been around for many thousands of years. They are often messy and difficult to use, destroying spontaneity. For all it's bad points, condoms have made quite a comeback. This · and~may be left in for Up to. 5 years. Recent problems have forced all but one ma11Ufacter of IUDs out of business. The only one still be\ng prod11ced may be left in for ohly one yEar. It is not a good dev.ice for yoUIIg women for it may cause st<er-ility. Fertility-Awarelless Met- hods-Approved t.y most religious and cultiUal groups, this method relies on a womens ability to detect when she is ovulating. It is a very time consuming process and is subject to false signals given off by sickness, stress and~ .in- fection. There ar~..times, of course that se:lt .. is rl()t possible when using this methvd ( ap- prox. 7 days a mo~tib ). Contraception of 'I'ome>rrow Due to the stringe11t tests. that the FDA.require in order for a product to be certi::fied in this country,- many futuristic devices which are being used in other coWitries are not yet available here. Her--e is a brief list of the most promising. Implants-Are tilly rods that are implanted into the upper arm. They release progestin which inhibits ovulation and implantation. Vaginal Ring-Is a rubber Appearing Friday & Saturday · Sept. 26- 27 Shivers Drawing For Doo;r .Prizes T-Shirts; Hat>, Etc. . - Fri.'& SClturclay By JOHN BERGERON As a follow-up to last spring's article on the Chernobyl nuclear accident,. new reports ·estimate that the long term radioactive emissb.ms released during the disaster equal or sttrpass. all other nuclear tests and ex- plosions combined. The cause of the accident is now understood and it was due to human error and not faulty safety systems as previously thought. The in- cident began as a simple tur- bine test to measure the tur- bine's energy after a reactor shuts down. This ener'gy would be used to power equipment in an emergency. This test was incorrectly assumed to pose- no threat te nuclear safety. The test was to be performed at 20 percent power but th1:l vperators allowed the power to drop to 1 percent of full capacity. Due to instability of the reactor at low power levels, its .power was never supposed to drop below 20 percent. In an attempt to raise the power level, the operators removed all but six control rods . out of 215. At least tllirty rods are required for the reactor to operate safely. The operators shut off safety systems in order to allow the power :to drop dangerously low and t<J with- draw too many control rods. Seconds before the accident occured, the operators stopped the reactor's automatic shut- down of their test. Last Tuesd~y's New York Times reported that because Cher- nobyllyld the best safety record of aU Soviet nt~clear power plants, Chemobyl's operators beclUile overconfident in their ability to perform eXperiments on the reactors without adverse 10 Best Diseases Or Parts Of The Body (1) Schroomer's Tumor (2) Scurvy (3) Elephantiasis (4) Gluteus Maximus (5) Probiscus (6) Legionnaire's Qisease (7) The Sternum (8) Black Plague (9) Clavicle (10) Epidermis consequences. If these safety systems were not tampered with, then the accident would not have happened. The emissions from Cher- nobyl have been responsible for the deaths of thirty people and it could claim thousan<Is more in the ·next seventy years due to cancer. The main long term emission released was Cesium which causes cancer. Most of this radiation leaked into the atmosphere in the days after the explosion, not the day of the explosion. This is an important consideration for officials who plan the evacllation procedures. The Chernobyl incident has become an excellent study case for scientists concerned with the effects of large scale radiation. Western scientists are very interested in this ac- cident for the purposes of creating evacuation plans and containment of radiation in the -aftermath of an accident. Previous n11clear safety systems which were based ()n scientists' estimations of an accident's effects may be reevaluated and improved through this actual disaster. Professors Schick and . . . Newman Receive Grant Professor Jay Newman, of tile Physics Department at Union College, has received a 3• year $125,000 grant from the Research iri Undergraduate Institutions Program of the National Science Foundation (NSF). The grant is entitled, \Dynamic Light Scattering Studies of Actin Gelation\ and was funded by the Biophysics Program of the NSF. Professor Kenneth Schick, also of the Physics Department of Union College, is a-co-investigator on - the grant. . 1 Using the laser light scat- tering facilities developed and constructed llere at Union, Newman and Schick will extend previously published work on actin, a protein which is a,Q!ajor component of all cells as well as one of the two principle muscle proteins. The proposed research will use some techniques developed· during Newman's sabbatical leave in Italy (1984-85)which were used to study the gelation of agarose, to examine the gel-like properties of actin which may have ~pecial relevance to the structural, mechanical and motile properties of cells. * Attention * All Union College students and faculty The American Red Cross desperately needs your help. To aid this Benevolent Foundation, all you have to do is donate one pint of blood· when the Red Cross Bloodmobile comes to Union on October 1, 2, 3. The B,loodmobile will run fro.m 11:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m.each day in the Fox Lounge. I

' ' ' --- ~--- - -· -· -· '--- ---·-- •• - - -~ --- ...... .,>...., ___ .,_ -- --. ' Page 12 CONCORJ)IENSIS, September 25; 1986 THE ARTS . High Energy at Pro-ctor's Igor Moiseyev, Founder and Artistic Director Also at Proctor's .. ·a ByKATHYSTEINBACH and DAWN CHUPAY A very large, inehriat~d cossack lays in the middle of a bare. stage. His stomach shudders and rumbles, as he slips further into un- consciousness. Suddenly, in a move reminiscent ·of a science- fictionmovie,.a goulish pig-:tnan leaps from the drunkard's heaving hulk. Soon, other demons and witches join him in a wildly abandoned dance. ·The performers move with precision and amazing stamina, as they create a scene of dark revelry. The dancers are .part of the Moiseyev Dance CQmpany who performed this past week :in. the United States for the .first time since 1974. Unlike traditional classical ballet, this · ·dance company performed a mixture of ballet and folk dancing augmented by difficult acrobatic feats. The company in their 5oth year is comprised .of -155 members, including a full pit. orchestra. Each scene has a wonderful .set of costumes, ranging from bright Ukrainian dresses to long flowing gypsy skirts· to large dark capes that made the dancers appear to be floating across the stage. · Betrothal at the End of Sllin- . mer, to an ancient Alzharian Warrior Dance, to The Wild Night on Bald .Mountain. Spanish Lute Orchestra 'Grandi~\ Settings for the various dance numbers ranged from A Theate:r•goers were greeted by protestors, chanting again$t Soviet Jews unable to leave ;the Soviet Union. CDmpated to the .smok~bombing and protests .in New York City, the Schenec- tady crowd was much more subdued. Proctor'S theater and Upstate New York was for- tunate enouglJ. to see· the Moiseyev Dancers perform on their 17 city tour. Hopefully, diplomatic relations between the United States and the Soviet Union will allow future per• fonnances by this spectacular dance company. By JASON FEINGOLD This past Sunday Proctor's Theatre was host to a very rare event. This \>las the Spanish. Lute Orchestra 'Grandio.' The lute is a very old instrument and a direct antecedent to the guitar. Many classical guitar pieces, especially those from Spain and England, were originally written for the lute. The assembly of lutes was an orchestra in every sense of the word and lost nothing to regular orchestras of comparable size in terms of clarity, ex- pl'essiveness, and tonal range. There were many types of lute present: soprano, contralto, tenor, cello, and an enormous contrabass, to give a full range and flavor of sounds. Each plays off the other as in a real orchestra and even the cu .... .... ttl cu .1: l- In !.... 0 +- u 0 .... ll. 0 > C/) Q) t ::;, 0 u . dynamics were quite similar. The tremolo picking technique (the very fast . repetition of one or more notes) filled out the music in much the same way that the high sustain of bowed instrwnents do. Their repetoire included pieces from the classical period 1 such as Canarios, by Gaspar Sanz, and a sonata by Antonio Soler to the famous Three Cornered Hat by Manuel de Falla and other romantic pieces. Appearing with the orchestra were two singers, Carmen Gonzalez, soprano, and Gonzalo Molina, tenor, both with ex- cellent voices and projection. They sang various duets and solos including, 'They Call Me The Beautiful One' f:rom The Barber of Seville, buf the most entertaining were excerpts from Carmen, by Georges Spanish Lute Orchestra ~ • l ; . ,... . ' . • - I .,. .... . .. ·' Confused over w!Jic.IJ Micro Computer to buy? ;_ ~- · Come to O.nlon College's First ..~\a. __ ._ COMPUTER FAIR For Some Help in your Decision 1 BM, Zenith, Apple, Leading Edge, AT&T, and H P personal computers will be displayed as stand alone micros and as terminals to the Union VAX Cluster. · Local dealers and Corporate representatives will be available to answer your questions. A one-hour lecture on \How to buy a Micro Computer 0 wtll be presented .prior to the fair in Milano Lounge at9:30 am and 11:30 am. Day: Place: iiiiG: W~n~4d~y, OcloiHJr Jsl Dilrld4o.D LoUDit J:IJIJ - tf:OQ J1111 Bizet, including the well known Prelude and Micaele's. Aria. The lutes provided a very nice accompaniment and were a welcome change of pace from the conventional orchestl'a. Also 'Yith the orchestra were the two dancers . Rocio Acosta,. · ballerina, . and Francisco Morales. . The dances lent a pleasant spice to the music. They did an. interestin' piece called 'Noctambulos that symbolized the moods of passion and joy in the peasants of Andalucia. It was played and performed in an impressionistic style. They also did a highly exciting Fandango from Dona Francisquita. It was choreographed in a fast and furi()US Latin style. The com., bination of lutes, singers, and dancers nicely complemented one another and was very well presented. Carmen Gonzale2, Soprano, Spani.sh Lut~ Orchestra \'11's Just Off Broadway\ • • • In the Arts Building Harmony Hammond Lectures at Union By R. REED WHIDDEN \Cycles: A Close Look at the Work of May Stevens and Joan Snyder,\ was a slide lecture presentation depicting the \cycles\ of the artistic lives of May Stevens and Joan Snyder. Harmony Hammond, a feminist painter, sculpter, writer and critic, presented the show. The very informative lecture, at- tended . by both the public and Union College students, was·an interesting display of . the women's work. The two- artists were shown to be very different as well as very similar. Hannony Hanunond's comparison of the two aspects was clear and detailed. She explained the cycles of the two feminist artists' lives and how those cycles were reflected in their art. The few works shown were chosen to represent different periods, emotions, and stages in each artists' life. While the styles of art were very dif- ferent, each had a similar message-those of rage, joy, and' protest. They depicted relationships between mothers and daughters. Their . art showed women and their particular experiences. Steven$ was rnore politically oriented; Seniors where as Snyder was more persDnally oriented. Their art presented what is sometimes dUficUlt to relate to with words. Harmony Hammond, ·a close peer of the 1 artists; was able to lecture· on these women, · their lives, ami their art with a kind of personal sense that helped to :make the thoughts, ideas, and messages more clear. This lecture was just one in a series, co-sponsored by Women's Stu.dies and the Arts Department that is to come to Union this fall. Judging from this lecture those that foUow will be weli worth attend.in.g. Don't F qrget . Senior Portraits, September ... 29 Through Oct~ 4. t l ·, . l .

' 1 ! l ! } J I ,, j 1 ' '· . CONCORDIENSlS? September 25, 1986 Page 13 Arts Briefs $21.5 Million in building at 1.67 Wolf Road where Grants Awarded the gallery Will be located. To Arts Gtoups. The gaUery will occupy the 'lobby Space on all three floors. Over sixty arts organizations The series will include ap- in the United States, fifteen proximately nine shows during from New York, are included · the year, and will .feature a this year in receiving more than different artist each month. The $21.5 in challenge grants from work: displayed at Philo Art will · the National Endowment for the . be of specific interest to Miss Arts. These .grants, which 'have Beltrone. Although Philo Art .is totaled more than $173 nlillion, not intended to be a profit . have been awarded for the past ·organization, all exhibited· nine years. works Will be for sale. Individual grants range from $100,000 to $1 million.. The Bnty JoelLive re~ipients from 1986 include At Glens Falls groups from 23 states, . Washington, D.C., and one· Billy .Joel will appear live at American arts organization in the Glens Falls CiVic Center on France. Monday, September 29 at 7:30. Rehearsals to Begin For Chamber Orchestra ' . Rehearsais for the Union · College Chamber Orche~ra will be held every Thursday frc;m 7·9 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Violists and violinists are in- vited to attend. For more in- formation, call Hilary Tann at 37~202. . This is the first concert on Joel's national tour, which will promote his new albwn, ''The ~ridge.\ David Lee Roth • TO Appear at Glens Falls Civic Center Creative Concerts and the · Glens Falls Civic Center have · annl)unced the appearance of David Lee· Roth at the GlellS Music and Poetry At Caffe Lena · Falls Civic· Center on Thwsday, . October 2, at 7:30, with special : guest Cinderella. Programs rif . music and poetry will be offered between September 26 and 29 at Caffe Lena lqcated at 45 Phila Street in Saratoga Springs. Tickets for the show are $14.50 and are on sale at the Civic . Center Box Office, Ticketron, Community Box Office, and · Drome Sound. For more in· fonnation or to order tickets by phone, call 79S-0202. THE ARTS On Campus ••• What to Do on a Thursday ~ight By NANCY GRUNDMAN and JULIE STEINBERG What's going on that is so ~~iting ott a Thursday night at Umon College to stop you from getting a. seat at the bar at Slapshots? The answer is not Hill Street Blues as you might think, or even a fire drill at West . . . It must be really top secret if the intelligencia of Union College does not know. The answer is, but of course, CABARET. This Week's Cabaret starred SingersAndy Lipman and Dave Pmvost, and was emceed by Jason Green. Dave Provost opened Cabaret With his ren- dition of John Oenver's classic, \Country Road.'' After en .. tertaining the audience with his solo performknce, he was joined on stage by Andy Lipman, l- eu .0 :;) 1.. (,!) cu > ra '0. >- .0 s .s:: 0. . Dave Provost where they proceeded to sing Neil Young's \Sugar MoWI- tain.\ Dave then handed the microphone over to Andy who .continued to delight the audience untll Cabaret's finale. Even though th.e size of the audience was small, their en- thusiasm and participation made up for their lack in number and made Cabaret a success once again. Harvard Professor to Speak at Union ByJULEESTE~ERG Jules Brody, Professor of French and· Compar~tive Literatnre at Harvard University, will give a talk sponsored by the Department of Modern Languages in cooperation with the English Department. Professor Brody's talk en~itled \Reading Poetry: 'A Philosophical Approach\ On Friday and Saturday, September 26 and, 27, singer- songwriter Chris Smither will appear; ;at ·.;3: 30l;- .On. ,.:Sunday, · September 28; there. will be an · introduction. to new performers Michelle . Ton();reau, Ed :lltsenhart, and Kevin GaVitt, and ~on,·Mon<Uly, September 29, there will be a poetry reading by :George Drew and Allen Jeffrey II 0pe11S :Season,atthe.Egg . . . . . WW. take place at 8:30p.m. on Thursday, October 2, in the Music 'Room of the Shaffer Professor Brody specializes in the fJeld of 17th century French literature, and has written numerous books and articles. He has also published works on French writers of all periods, and others on writers of English and Classical literature. He is currently studying the act and process of reading, and will use a short poem by Dylan Thomas as his subject. Professor Brody has a B.A. from Cornell, and an M.A and Ph.D. from Colwnbia. He has been at Harvard since 1979 where he has been Chairman of the Pepartment of Romance Languages and Literatures as well as serving as the Director of the Department of Romance Languages and Lit~ratures as well as serving as the Director of the Harvard Center for Literary Studies. He has received many grants and awards, including the Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships. For more information, please call Professor Helen McDer- mott at 37().6359. Hoey. · · The Joffrey II dancers will open. the season'.s \festival of · dance\ presented by ESlPA at the ~gg. They will l;le. per· forrmng \Tales f.-om Hans Christian Andersen'' both in the morning at 10:00 on October 2 and3, and in the evening at 8:00 NewGalleryto on October 3. - Open on WoU Road Tickets for the ballet are $15 . • fot adults,. $13 for students and Philo Art will open on· senior ~itizens, and $7 for Saturday, Septeml:)!!r 27 with an children under 13. \Student exhibition by Round Lake. rush\ tickets, at $7 will be sculptor and painter Susan available one half hour before Fitzsimmons Jones. This new the 8 p.m. performance. For gallery is the project of. Siena more information and ticket College senior, Selina C. Beltro, sales, call the box office of whose father owns the 3 story ESIPA at the Egg at' 473-3750. I r=::::-M library. · At The Movies -Fall Term at Unio·n September 9 Tuesday Airplane 7, 9, 11 September 12-14 Fri., Sat. Sun. Hannah & Her Sisters 7,9, 11 September 16 · .Tuesday Diva 7:30, 10 September 19-2'1 Fri., Sat., Sun. A Soldier's Story 7, 9, 11 September 23 Tuesday American Graffiti 7, 9, 11 September26-28 Fri., Sat., Sun. Lady Hawke 7:30,10 September 29 Tuesday Chitty Chitty Bang Bang 7:30, 10 October 3-5 October 1 October 1 0-12 October 14 October 17-19 October 21 October 24-26 October 28 October 30 November4 November 7-9 November 11 November 14-16 Fri., Sat., Sun. Tue~day Fri., Sat., Sun. Tuesday Fri., Sat~, Sun. Tuesday Fri ,, Sat., Sun. Tuesday . Fri., Sat., Sun. Tuesday Fri., Sat., Sun. Tuesday i=rJ., Sat., Sun. FX North Dallas Forty Down and Out in Beverly Hills Young Frankenstein Brazil Body Heat ·Pee Wee's Big Advt. Night of the Living Dead Jagged Edge Ea·ting Raoul Emerald Forest My Body Guard Back t<;> the Future Place: Social Science 016 7, 9, 11 7:30,10 7, 9, 11 7, 9, 11 7:30, 10 7, 9, 11 7, 9, 11 7, 9, 11 7, 9, 11 7, 9, 11 7,9, H 7,9;711 7, 9, 11

Page 14 CONCORJ)IEN~lS, September 25, 1986 THE ARTS Emerson S_tring Qu·artet Comes to Union By MAltY JO CONLEY On Wednesday, October 1, 1986, the. acclaimed Emerson String Quartet will perform a concert in Memod~ · Chapel. This concert is part of the Schenectady-Union College Concert Series, a program which runs through March 1987. Union students will be admitted free -of charge, and tickets will be available at the door before the concert. The Emerson's repertoire includes Beethoven, Bartok, standard and contemporary literatur'e, Mendelsohn Con- . certo Number 1 in E flat minor, and compositions by various twentieth century artists. This quartet has performed on all the major concert series in North .Ameriea, as well as recently .making debut per- formances in Europe and the Presents ••• Far East, resulting in a total of 120 concerts annually during the last five seasons. The Emerson is the resident quartet for the Lincoln Center Chamber- Music Society, the Smithsonian Institute and . Aspen Festival. Two films documenting the quartet, '•rn Residence at the \Renwick'~ and ''l\faking Musi<J: the Emerson String Quartet'', have been produced. The members of the Emerson String Quartet are all Jn their early tllirties. Eugene Decker and Philip Setzer, both grad11ates of Julliard, share the position of first violinist . Lawrence Sutton and David Fine.kel, viola and cello respectively, round out the quartet. All four men .are membtlrs of the Chamber Mtisic Society of Linco1n Center and are recipients of numerous nati<mal and international Tin Horns and ·ealico at Albany u. By HEATHER KAHN and LORI KAPLAN \Tin Horns and Calico\ is a play about the history of Albany, a city with which all Union College students are familiar. We think of Albany as a city with little intrigue, yet in fact, the play proved contrary to our belief. The play, which was per- formed at SUNY Albany's Downtown Campus, displayed a multitude of talent. The students, gifted in both acting and singing, were able to paint a clear picture of the struggles that had occurred during the early nineteenth century. \Tin tloms and Calico\ tells the story of a remote im- portant part of not only local history, but also tells the story which involves our nation as a whole. The play depicts historical figures which include Alexander Hamilton, the Van Rensselear family, and Abraham Lincoln to name a few. This production celebrates the Anti-Rent Wars of the 1840's. The play focuses on the leader of the anti-rent movement, Dr. Smith. A. Boughton. Young Dr. Boughton is indeed· an unsung hero. Tbe perlormancerevels in his coW'age and humanity, for without them our country might not b.ave kept its democratic ideals. This musical com- memoration was the perfect remedy for a dry evening at Uni<ln. Emerson String Quartet at Union Wu Han, a pianist, will be awards. The Emerson is in- joining the. Emerson String terested in not only music but Quartet in its performance world affairs, as evidenced by here. She will be featured in the their membership in per- Brahms Piano Quintet in. F forming Artists .for Nuclear· minor. The Wednesday evening Disannament and support of ~rfol;'lllance will begjn at 8 the fight against .world hunger. . p.m. A:u Reviews o.f on and off ca,mpus events are welcome ..... ...-..-·~·-·-· ........ ...-..~.~- ........ - . ...-..·-·-·~· ' Union College Speaker's Forum · l • Presents . . . ' t • I Sam Kinison I t t i On His i i Louder Than. i f i i Hell Tour i I Fri., Oct. 10th I i Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. t 1.· Tic:ke.ts $4 Student I ' $6 P ubllc f· . ' 1 on Sale l0/26 ~ I ! Old Chapel . ! . f Ticket Booth . 1 ,:.._.. . .._... . .._.. _ __...__. . .._... . .._..~ . ..-. ................... ..._.. ..................... ~.

Page 14 CONCORDJENSlS, September 25, 1986 THE ARTS Emerson String Quartet Comes to Union By MARY JO CONLEY On Wednesday, October 1, 1986, the acclaimed Emerson String Quartet will perform a concert in Memori~l Chapel. This concert is part of the Schenectady-Union College Concert Series, a program which rWls through March 19S7. Union students will be admitted free of cb.arge, and tickets will be available at the door before the concert. The Emerson's repertoire includes Beethoven, Bartok, standard and contemporary literature, Mendelsohn Con- . certo Nwnber 1 in E flat minor, and compositions by variol!S twentieth century artists. This quartet has performed on all the major concert series in North Ameriea, as well ~s recently making debut per- formances in Europe and t:he Far East, resulting in a total of 120concerts annually during the last five seasons. The Emerson is the resident quartet for the Li:ncoln Center Chamber Music S(!)ciety, the Smithsonian In:.titute and Aspen Festival. 'Two films documenting the qaartet, \In Residence at the \Renwick\ and \Making :M1:1sic: the Emerson String Quartet\ have been produced. 'The members of the Emerson String Quartet are all in their early thirties. Eugene Decker and Philip Setzer, both graduates of JuHiard, share the position of first violinist. Lawrence Sutton and David Finckel, viola and cello respectively, round out the quartet. All four men are members of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center and are recipients of numerous national and international Presents ••• Tin Horns and Calico at Albany u. By HEATHER KAHN and LORI KAPLAN ''Tin Horns and Calico\ is a play about the history <lf Albany, a city with which all Union College students are famili~r. We think of Albany as a city with little intrigue, yet in fact, the play proved contrary to our belief. The play, which was per- formed at SUNY Albany's Downtown Campus, displayed a multitude of talent. The students, gifted in both acting and singing, were able to paint a clear picture of the struggles that had occurred during the early nineteenth century. \Tin llorns and Calico\ tells the of a remote yet im- portant part of not only local history, but also tells the story which involves our nation as a whole. The play depicts historical figures which include Alexander Hamilton, the Van Rensselear family, and Abraham Lincoln to name a few. This production celebrates the Anti-Rent Warsofthe 1840's. The play focuses on the leader of the anti-rent movement, Dr. Smith A. Boughton. Young Dr. Boughton is indeed an unsung hero. The performance revels in his courage and humanity, for without them our country might not have kept its democratic ideals. This musical com- memoration was the perfect remedy for a dry evening at Union. ·. ~. . ~··· ·~·· . . .. v '\ W R ~ ~~.~ u~ · ·c<· ••• - ;_ ·-- _- _· - _: - < :' :._ •• _ .··-· awards. The Emerson is in- terested in not only music but world affairs, as evidenced by their rnemberslli.p in per- forming Artists for Nuclear Disarmament ;1nd support of the fight against world hunger. Emerson String Quar·tet at Union Wu Han, a pianist,. will be joining the Emerson String Quartet in its performance here. She will be featured in the Brahms Piano Quintet in F minor. The Wednesday evening performance will begin at 8 p.m. All Reviews of on and off campus events are welcome Sept. at) Oct. I On campus: German Poetry andPrtse lm:ldingat3p.mc; in H'l.ll:l'lMitiesLounge, Off Cmnpus: Jesus Christ Superstar at Proctor'stbraOCt. a. ()n Campus: Tbe Emel'S()n StringQuart~tat Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. Oct.2 ()ff Campus: The .Joffrey li Dancers-Tales from Hans Christian Anderson at the E€g thru Friday. ()ff<;:runpus: David Lee Roth at Glen Falls Civic Center, +- 0. (]) Q <J) c 0 :;: rtl Q) ac u .0 ::> a.. 0 >- (fl QJ ;- ... ::> 0 u .... ·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·-·.._..., ' Union College Speaker's Forum it. • Presents. o• t • t Sam Kinison I t u . t t . • . OnH1s t l Louder Than. i i Hell Tour l f . i Fri., Oct. 10th ! 1 Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. t I Tickets $4 Student I ! $6 Public t f On Sale 10/26 . i • Old Chapel ! 1_. _______ :~:!!.~~--------' i~ r I,

j j. ' j ~ CONCO}lDIENSI~.Septemb.er 25, 198_6 PagelS ' _J EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES A New York City S111Wller Internship. .Plan ahead to get the elq)erience that will give your career a good start. Develop your professional skills and make valuable contacts in the career field of your choice. If you are entering your jWlior or senior year and have a minimum GPA of 2.5, MarymoWlt College Tarrytown can . place you in a 6-week summer mternsbip, supervise your placement and grant you 3 academic credits (optional). Costs: $15 Application. Fee, $350 - without credit, $450 - 3 credits. · For further .information and to arrange an interview, con• tact: Internship' Program, Marymount CoUegg, TCU'rytowri NY 10591. (914) 631-3200, The National Wildlife Federation (NWF) is offering Environmental Conservation Fellowships, for graduate students -interested in- en- vironmental research. For more information ·write: National Wildlife Federation, 1412 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington,.D. C. 20036-2266. Any college senior or recent graduate :Who is a U.S. or Canadian citizen is eligible for a Mellon .Fellowship in the pumanities. For more in- formation contact. Prof. Jan K. Ludwig~ Department . of Philosophy. - 37..().6376. ,or .. 6031 before October 24; 1986. The United States Air Force shares the commitment of educators everywhere in providing top-quality educational opportunities for yoWlg Americans, according to CMSgt. Winfield L. Gelanger, Air Force representative, 3516 USAF Recruiting Service, Building 2510, Stewart Army Subpost, Newburgh, New York, 12550-9999. For more information on Air Force education programs, contact Chief Master Sergeant Belanger t 1-800-USA-USAF. CAMPUS NEWS Local Student Receives Scholarship from Union College. Leonie M. Robinson, a . Class of 1990 Electrical · Engineering major at Union College, has been named to receive the Kahan Annual Scholarship~ · The Kahan Scholarship was established this year by Mr. Kahan to ·benefit a minority student from the metropolitan New York area. An Ad Hoc colllmittee has been appointed to assess the tenutabiiity ·of Barbara .Markiewicz, As~istant Professor of Psychology. Its members are Francis Federighi (:EE-CS ).,. Chairman, Frank Calabria (Psy~hology), Ruth Stevenson {English), and John Boyer (Biology). All members ·of. the ~ollege . com- mllliity who have knowledge of Professor Markiewicz's teaching, research, or college s.ervice · activities are en- colli\aged to contribute either written or oral t~stimony to the committee (contact any committee member to arrange an interView). An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of ProfessQr .Julius · Barbanel,. of the Mathematics Department. In addition to the usual prescribed ~ources of information, the Committee . welcomes comments from faculty or students· who . know Professor Barbanel. Those interested in speaking to the Committee should call its chairman, Professor Charles Weick, extensi9n 6338, as soon as possible. · ' An Ad Hoc Tenui\.e Committee composed of Professors Aubrey (Mechanical Engineering), G a _jj 1:1 r (E 1 e c:; t. r i c a I 'E'ng.ine·erhtg), · La;irlbtin,os (Institute of Administration and Management), and Scaife .(Chemistry) (CHAIR) has been convened to examine the tenurability of Professor Rao Guntur (Mechanical Engineering). If any member of the college community wishes to provide an evaluation of the teaching, scholarly work, or college service of Professor Guntur, please submit a written evaluation to any member of the colllihittee by October 24 or call the Chair at X6341 to arrange for an interview. An Ad Hoc Committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Suzanne Benack, Assistant Professor Psychology.' Persons wishing to comment orally or in writing on Prof. Benack's teaching, scholarship, or college service should notify Prof. Francis L. Lambert, Department of Biology, Science s .. 304, Extension 6332. other com- All Freshman maies are cordially Invited to kick-off Dry Rush At The lst Annual Delta Chi Day ·At The Girling Center Featuring: Pig Roast BBQ Live band from NYC Footba.ll, Frisl::>ee,; Etc. Saturday Sept. 27th at 2 P .M~ The Girling Center is located 2112 mil.es down Van Vranken Ave. Shuttle van leaving Fox/Davidson parking lot every 15 minutesfrom2·3:30P.M. ' Raindate sept. 28th ) Olfttee members are Professor Yu Chang (Electricai Engineering), Rudy Nydegger (Psychology) and Linda E. Patrik (Philosophy). OFF CAMPUS JOBS Kem Cleaners, 1711 Union St., P-T 2•7 Mon.-Fri., 9: 3o-G p.m. Sat. $3.40-hr., contact 37'1•3011. Typing done for Professors- Students. Please contact 370- 6130 (b), 346-0344 (h) after 5:30 p.m. Brown School, Rugby Road, After school program - 2:36-4:30 M-F. :$4.00-hr. Assisting leader in after ~;~chool program ·in play activities. Please contact 346- 6139. Student interested in a few hrs. a d~y. 2-3 days a week. Copying work - Please contact John at 372-3208, Location: Central Plumbing & Heating, 141 Freeman's Bridge Road, Scotia, New Yori. Student interested in working .part time for Bottle Shop, Sheridan Plaza, Schenectady. Please contact 374-8833. Scotia Wine & Liquor. F-T employment, flexible hours, 346-1639, Mohawk Avenue, Scotia. Students interested in posting posters for Proctors. Need own transportation for Schenectady- , Scotia · area. Mileage & minimum wage. Please contact 382-3884. Typing done for Professors- Students. Please c;ontact 377- 0373 before 6 p.m. Need student to sit 2 children 4 1 12 yrs. & 2 months. Location Scotia area - Need own tran- sportation. Please contact 377- 3769 after 3 p.m. Wanted: Photographers interested in building a portfolio and earning money; to take photos of campus events and scenes. Call Peter Blankman, Public Relations Office, 370- 6131. Help Wanted-Sigma Phi needs two people to waiter do dishes. -free meal plan!- See Adam or call him at 382-9225 for details. Help wanted: $60.00 per hundred paid for remailing letters from home. Send self- addressed, stamped envelope · for information-application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, - NJ 07203. Typing done by Executive Secretary. Top quality results. $1.25 -page. Call Judy 399-3383. Homeworkers wanted - top pay • work at home • call Cot- tage Iildustries - 405-360-4062. CLASSIFIEDS Wanted: ''Behind the Walls\ college student seeking correspondence from people that really care. Good looking Irish-Italian, 5'9\ 150 lbs., brown hair and brown eyes. Very lonely and forgotten. Serving four years for burglary- escape with this being my last. Please write! I All responses welcomed and answered. Write to: Rick Garvey, 83.C.810, Attica Correctional Facility, P.O. Box149, Attica, N.Y.14011. Death row prisoner, caucasian male, age 40, desires correspondence with either male or female colle'ge students. Wants to form a friendly relationship and more or less just exchange past ex- periences and ideas. Will an- swer all letters and exchange pictures. If interested write to Jim Jeffers, Box B-38604, Florence, Arizona 85l.).32. Fund Raiser Contest. Throughout February, \BUST MS\ MONTH, college stuc:tents from over 250 Wliversities will be sponsoring fund raising events on behalf of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. The campus which raises the most money for Students Against Multiple Sclerosis will be the sire of a concert to be broadcast on MTV: Music Television. Right now, SAMS and the MS Society's 105 local chapters are recruiting campus leaders to chair the campaign, as well as other volunteers for Board positions such as: Public Relations Director, Business Marketing Director, Recruit- ment Director and MS Education Director. To get involved .in the SAMS program on your campus, please contact your campus Chair, the local MS Chapter, or call 1-800-I-BUST-MS. \ $ EASY MONEY! ! I will pay $25 for your phone. book. Call Lee Ramsey Collect at (615) 577-7237 after 6:00 p.m. The fibn committee presents: ~26- ~28, LadyHawke at 7:30 and 10; 9-30, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang at 7:30 and 10. Tickets can be purchased at Old Chapel for $1. CLUB NEWS Eucharistic Ministers WoTkshop-Union College students who Wish to serve as Eucharistic Ministers at St. John's and who have not yet been commissioned may meet with Sr. Joan in St. John's School. Library, Thursday, September 25th from 7-9. Newman Overntght Retreat- September 26-27 from Friday at 5 Wltil Saturday at 5 p.m. Retreat Theme: Relationships: Myself, God, others. Place: 1630 Nott Street. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. I.E.F. Deadline The deadline for proposals for the Internal .Education Foundation in two categories-student-initiated research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October lOth. Proposals for projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office {5100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. When preparing budgets. please remember that per diem rates are 'normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should a I so reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. Faculty Research Deadline The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now soliciting . proposals tor faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and gu.idel ines Double The Color, Double The are available in Dean Fun. Fall Foliage Cruise, weiner's office {SlOO/S & E). Saturday, September 27,.9:30 to The:deadline for submission of 11:30 a.m. Phone the Gateway · proposCJis is Friday, October for reset\Vations '274-5267. Cost lOth. - ~ $6. ·~. . ·- ~~~~-.G~E-0-R~GE~'S~U~N~IV~E=~~ .•.. =IT~Y . SCHOOL·OF MEDICINE GRENADA. WEST INDIES 'st George's University School of Medicine, with more than 1050 graduates licensed in 33 s~a.tes, ofiers a ri orous, nine-semester program le~ding to t~e degree ;of. Doctor .of Med1c1ne.· In Jan~ary 1985 The Journal of the Amencan .Medical Association publish~ (.1 report which ranked St. George's number one of all major foreign medical schools tn the tr:ut1a~ pass rate on the ECFMG Exam. . · . . G , d 70 medical schools in the Untt~d States have accepted over 630 St. · eorge s stu ents with advanced standing. · . . . . . . - d r · 1 .. 1 k h · ,,. St. George ·s has re.cfJIVed probat1onar:y approyal \t<? con uc~ c U'ltca c er s tps m, ·~ew J ey subject to regulations of th~ State Boat? of E~amtners. · . . . . , · . . . • ers A Loan Program tor E:nterlng Students'h'as Men thstilutetl'for'a hm1ted number ~f quahfted applicants. . • · th. Off' ;., Ad · · - For information, please contact e · · 1ce v m1sstons. St. George's University School of Medicine • c1c The Foreign Medical Schoo. I Services Corporation One East Main Street, .Bay Shore, N.Y. 11706, Dept. C-2 (516) 6'65-8500 - ' . . I j I I l j ·I I l l j j I I I

j ·' CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 PagelS EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES A New York City Summer Internship. Plan ahead to get the experience that will give your career a good start. Develop your professional skills and make valuable contacts in the career field of your choice. If you are entering your junior or senior year and have a minimum GPA of 2.5, Marymount College Tarrytown can place you in a 6-week summer internship, supervise your placement and grant you 3 academic credits (optional). Costs: $15 Application Fee, $350 - without credit, $450 - 3 credits. For further information and to arrange an interview, con- tact: Internship Program, Marymount College, Tarrytown ~ 10591. (914)· 631-3200. The National Wildlife Federation (NWF) is offering Environmental Conservation Fellowships for graduate students -interested in en- vironmental research. For more information ·write: National Wildlife Federation, 1412 Sixteenth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036-2266. Any college senior or recent graduate who is a U.S. or Canadian citizen is eligible for a Mellon Fellowship in the Humanities. For more in- .formation contact: Prof. Jan K. Ludwig, Department of Philosophy, 370-6376 or 6031 before October 24, 1986. The United States Air Force shares the commitment of educators everywhere in providing top-quality educational opportunities for young Americans, according to CMSgt. Winfield L. Gelanger, Air Force representative, 3516 USAF Recruiting Service, Building 2510, Stewart Army Subpost, Newburgh, New York, 12550-9999. For more information on Air Force education programs, contact Chief Master Sergeant Belanger t 1-800-USA-USAF. CAMPUS NEWS Local Student Receives Scholarship from Union College. Leonie M. Robinson, a . Class of 1990 Electrical Engineering major at Union College, has been named to receive the Kahan Annual Scl:lolarship. The Kahan Scholarship was established this year by Mr. Kahan to benefit a minority student from the metropolitan New York area. An Ad Hoc committee has been appointed to assess the tenarability of Barbara Markiewicz, Assistant Professor of Psychology. Its members are Francis Federighi (EE-CS), Chairman, Frank Calabria (Psychology), Ruth Stevenson (English), and John Boyer (Biology). AU members of the college com· munity who have knowledge of Professor Markiewicz's teaching, research, or college service activities are en· couraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to the committee (contact any committee member to arrange an interview). An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Professor Julius Barbanel, of the Mathematics Department. In addition to the usual prescribed sources of information, the Committee welcomes comments from faculty or students who know Professor Barbanel. Those interested in speaking to the Committee should call its chairman, Professor Charles Weiclt, extension 6338, as soon as possible. An Ad Hoc Tenure Committee composed of Professors Aubrey (Mechanical Engineering), Gajjar (Electrical Engineering), Lambrinos (Institute of Administration and Management), and Scaife (Chemistry) (CHAIR) has been convened to examine the tenurability of Professor Rao Guntur (Mechanical Engineering). If any member of the college community wishes to provide an evaluation of the teaching, scholarly work, or college service of Professor Guntur, please submit a written evaluation to any member of the committee by October 24 or call the Chair at X6341 to arrange for an interview. An Ad Hoc Committee has been formed to assess the tenurability of Suzanne Benack, Assistant Professor Psychology. Persons wishing to comment orally or in writing on Prof. Benack's teaching, scholarship, or college service should notify Prof. Francis L. Lambert, Department of Biology, Science S-304, Extension 6332. Other com· All Freshman males are cordially Invited to kick-off Dry Rush At The 1st Annual Delta Chi Day At The Girling Center Featuring: Pig Roast BBQ Live band from NYC Football, Frisbee, Etc. Saturday Sept. 27th at 2 P.M. The Girling Center is located 2 1 12 miles down Van Vranken Ave. Shuttle van leaving Fox/Davidson parking lot every 15 minutes from 2-3:30 P.M. Rai ndate sept. 28th mittee tnembers are Professor Yu Chang {Electrical Engineering), Rudy Nydegger (Psychology) and Linda E. Patrik (Philosophy). OFF CAMPUS JOBS Kern Cleaners, 1711 Union St., P-T 2-7 Mon.-Fri., 9:3()..6 p.m. Sat. $3.4~hr., contact 377-3011. Typing done for Professors- Students. Please contact 370- 6130 (b), 346.0344 (h) after 5:30 p.m. Brown School, Rugby Road, After school program- 2: 3()-4: 30 M-F. $4.00-hr. Assisting leader in after school pragram in play activities. Please contact 346~ 6139. Student interested in a few hrs. a day, 2-3 days a week. Copying work - Please contact John at 372-3208. Location: Central Plumbing & Heating, 141 Freeman's Bridge Road, Scatia, New Yori. Student interested in working part time for Bottle Shop, Sheridan Plaza, Schenectady. Please contact 374-8833. Scotia Wine & Liquor. F-T employment, flexible hours, 346-1639, Mohawk Avenue, Scotia. Students interested in posting posters for Proctors. Need own transportation for Schenectady- Scotia area. Mileage & minimum wage. Please contact 382-3884. Typing done for Professors- Students. Please contact 377- 0373 before 6 p.m. Need student to sit 2 children 4% yrs. & 2 months. Location Scotia area - Need own tran- sportation. Please contact 377- 3769 after 3 p.m. Wanted: Photographers interested in building a portfolio and earning money; to take photos of campus events and scenes. Call Peter Blankman, Public Relations Office, 370- 6131. Help Wanted-Sigma Phi needs two people to waiter do dishes. -free meal plan!- See Adam or call him at 382-9225 for details. Help wanted: $60.00 per hundred paid for remailing letters from home. Send self- addressed, stamped envelope for information-application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203. Typing done by Executive Secretary. Top quality. results. $1.25- page. Call Judy 399-3383. Homew()rkers wanted - top pay - W()rk at home - call Cot- tage Industries - 405-360-4062. CLASSIFIEDS Wanted: ''Behind the Walls\ college student seeking correspondence from peopl~ that really care. Good looking Irish-Italian, 5'9\ 150 lbs., brown hair and brown eyes. Very lonely and forgotten. Serving four years for burglary· escape with this being my last. Please write!! Al:l responses welcomed and answered. Write to: Rick Garve'y, 83.C.810, Attica Correctional Facility, P.O. Box14!l, Attica, N.Y.l4011. Death row prisoner, caucasian male, age 40, desires corresp()ndence with either male or female college students. Wants to form a friendly relationship and more or less just exchange past ex- periences ami ideas. Will an- swer all letters and exchange pictures. If interested write to Jim Jeffers, Box B-38604, Florence, Arizona 85232. Fund Raiser Contest. Throughout February, \BUST MS\ MONTH, college stm:tents from over 250 universities will be sponsoring fund raising events on behalf of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. The campus which raises the most money for Students Against Multiple Sclerosis will be the sire of a concert to be broadcast on MTV: Music Television. Right now, SAMS and the MS Society's 105 local chapters are recruiting campus leaders to chair the campaign, as well as other volunteers for Board positions such as: Public Relations Director, Business Marketing Director, Recruit- ment Director and MS Education Director. To get involved in the SAMS program on your campus, please contact your campus Chair, the local MS Chapter, or call 1-800-I-BUST-MS. $ EASY MONEY!! I will pay $25 for your phone book. Call Lee Ramsey Collect at (615) 577-7237 after 6:00 p.m. Double The Color, Double The Fun. Fall Foliage Cruise, Saturday, September 27, 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. Phone the Gateway for reservations 274-5267. Cost $6. The film committee presents: 9-26-9-28, Lady Hawke at 7:30 and 10. 9-30, Chitty Chitty Bang Bang at 7:30 and 10. Tickets can be purchased at Old Chapel for $1. CLUB NEWS Eucharistic Ministers Workshop-Union College students who wish to ser-ve as Eucharistic Ministers at St. John's and who have not yet been commissioned may meet with Sr. Joan in St. John's School Library, Thursday, September 25th from 7-9. Newman Overnight Retreat- September 26-27 from Friday at 5 until Saturday at 5 p.rn. Retreat Theme: Relationships: Myself, God, others. Place: 1630 Nott Street. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. I.E. F. Deadline The dead line for proposa Is for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories-student- in it ia ted research projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, October lOth. Proposals for projects mt:Jsl nave the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (5100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normal I y limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. Faculty Research Deadline The Subcouncil on Rrsear-ch and Grants is now sol ic iii ng proposals for faculty r\seClrch and scholarship acfivi ties. Applications and gu!Cielines are available in Dean Weiner's office (5100/S & EJ. The deadline for submission of proposals is Friday, October lOth. ST. GEORGE'S UNIVERSITY SCHOOL OF MEDICINE For information, please contact the Office of AdmissiOns. St. George's University School of Medicine c1c The Foreign Medical. School Services Corporation One East Main Street, Bay Shore, N.Y. 11706, Dept. C-2 (516) 665-8500 ' ' \ . ,' ' ' \ . . '~ :. ' ' - . ' ' . . ' . ' ' .. ' ' .

. Page 16 Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, September 29th at 7 p.m. in the Conference Room of Whitaker House. Please use rear door. Folk Groul>'-All singers and musicians interested jn being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. Sunday Liturgy may · meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Tutorial Program at St. John's-Union College students can be used in the following areas: Kindergarten Aides, Computer Math Aides, Library Aides (Grades 1 & 4), Math and Reading Tutoring on a one to one and coaches for Basketball. Please contact Lisa Mer- cugliano, Fox, 386-4183 who will coordinate this program. Dambrose 1.517 \/an Vranken Ave. Schenectady, NY 12308 (518)374-5193 ~,J{J.t. ~®~· --?JTt~ Complete Fabric Care Services Est. 1927 CONCORDIENSIS, Septelllber .25; 1986 ~----------------------.----- ..... The Gospel Ensemble rehearses every Friday at 4:30 in the dance studio in the Arts Building. . · Come·! &ing! Have fun! Mountebanks is Nott just theater! Meetings are Mondays at 4:30 in the- Nott. We need techieslll Buffet Supper-Sunday, September 28 from 4:3()..6:30 p.m. at St. John's Rectory for Union faculty, staff, students and their families. Please respond to Sr. Joan 370-6087. No fee-just your presence! The French Club is regrouping. Anyone interested . in joining please contact Julie (382-1007) or Lesley (346-7916). Tri-Delta's 4th Annual SK Run For anyone looking f(Jr ft~n tunes, and good Bible study, tlle Union College Ghr·istia·n Fellowship will meet tonight (Thursday, 25th) at.8:.00p;rn. in Whitaker House. A:ll aie welcome! Attention ... the 3rd Annual Backgammon Marathon for Charity is coming soon! !'I Fm more informati<m, dial (518) 370-BACK. Call now, OJlerat(JrS are standing by! PERSONALS Uhhh. Bob- I'll take ann()yir~g problems of populatiO'n and noise pollution for 500 please. DLG-The joke with the Shorts was pretty funny, and I .· October 28th at lO:OOA.M. 1 n Central Park Pre-Register at Tri-Delta 382·9216 386-4078 Or Register at the Race T-Shirts Available OLi\iSI DE I\-- T~E PA~K\ NC:a LOT ••• still love you. But just remember Revenge Is Sweet. Love Julie \'To Nancy andJay,Goodluck on 'Saturday. Love Julie Lar; we can't have any big nosed children running around here. EL 54Q9.S.pecJ31·Pnce- EL 5500II·Scientilic CE 1 26P Thermei.Pru'lter CE. 129P ThennB.I Prtiller EL 5104JSTSpectaiPnce El 506P Scientific El 5l2P Scientific EL 5510 Fmanc1al . EL 5520 Sctentiflc . · El 51SS Solar:Screnltlic Mom ' $35.00 70.00 5o.OO 7000 . $29.90 1.600 26.00 70.00 1o:oo 19.00 . TEXAS INSTRUMENTS SPECIAL PURCHA-SE TI·66HoodhelctScienttficProtJmmmable PC~200 Th8rin8.1 Prlnler Tl 36. SLR Solar Scientific , . , , . , rt: 74 NevJ·Basic Prpgrammable. PC 324 Thrm'mii.Printer ... Tl 55 III'Scie nllfic .. .. .. . ....... . TI5310DesktopFinancial ......... · Tl BAll FinanCial 30 00 Katie, Good luck (ln. Saturday ... 48.is a very good niiiD.berl Love in IKE, all of usJ! I think we needmcre sponges- ·Oh! Ehabb! ~And· more banana peel~~'first ·you b(lil It ... '' HP·IIC Scienltflc . $4LQO HP·12C Flnanc1al. 12:00 :H P·15C Scientific 7200 ·HP·1sC programmer . . BS.OO HP·fBC New! BusmessConsull~nt 135.00 ~P-4 i cv Advanced Programmable . 12ii:OO HP·41CXAdvancedPr(lgramh]nble 119 00 .s21C>4A Card Fiead~r . . .. . ...... 139.00 82153A Oplic Wand .... ·• . , 91.00 B2143A Thermal Pnnter 275.00 SPECIAL.Pl:JRCHASE 821.70A Quad Memorylor.HP·41 C . . 25.00 Math·PaclorHP•4'1C/CV.,iCI< ... . 19.90 Stalis!rcs Pac lor·HP·41CJCVIGX . · 19.90 CASIO ~ ' .. , F)(90CredltqarodScian111ic ..... . ..., ..... ......, FX.995 Solar s·ci«irtrnlic •.•• :. ' .. . . . FX4000P·Scl~nli11c .. .,., . , ,, ....... , .. • · CM 1.90 Scienlific/Pragr!t:llmer. , .... 1 CALL TOLL FREE 800~621 ·1269 .. · · EXCEPT Illinois, ~Iaska, Hawaii : Accessories· discounted too. MasterCard or VISA-by ~hone or mail: Mail C-ashier's c~eck, Money Ord., Pers. Check (2 wks to clr). Sorry ~o c.o_.o_:s. Add $4.00 1st lfeni $1<ea add'l sh~ & hand I. Shpts toIL address adcl7% tax. Pncessubt to change •. University-/College P.O. s Welcome. WRITE:(no calls) for'free catalog. 3D· day return policy. fotdefectillffl\1erchandise only. liLt ElEK· TEK MERCHANDISE IS BRAND !'lEW, .1ST QUALITY AN[) COMPLETE. · 6557- N. Lincoln Ave. l!.'t ... ·~K ~EK l·nc · chioago, 1Lsos4s ~*'--~ ~-· I (312H}3f·7800 . 4 • (3!.2f 671'·7660 \/fAit I!>N 'T IT GIZfATn 11'!> A · cA(l.Vf\- tQ30)(1..15 . 1c:1oo-Tv~So Sul'!:F. · D-t'NAMIC. AliD•o \'Tl·H~. V!>'I'E R. J ::r: ~A\/~0 UP ALL .SIJM/\'\£ R. FO~ IT J MEANWHtt.£ , 11\1 R~SI'Dt:NCE. Ll Ft; ... .so I ~TUDENT~ wAN'T :ro HA\1&. FuN IN ~'I RE~ \tlENCf j HALL':. Do i\HEY?! J..J HA:T .. ,_.~,t?J·,·_., 2 ~~= . DO Il-l f.'( Ti-ll N~: n . ·~ THEY ·11 \IE. .Yi\\\S::::fl~'kf' THf.rtE? :I'LL ,) F1f\Je -r~~M! ~~~ ' -:r 't..a.. .,:. rt>Jt: \THE fo'\ .Al.L .' \\Ef; 'AtE. ~A \4\- ~/\- \O \-\0 . n I · ARG\' • . Fu..(~~ ,~,('[~s, F1tlf.~! ::t. LovE. 1b MAKf ~of>l6. PA'i fiNt ~~ No e,~et5Atts 1 No Kf6S I NO M.U!.IC.., THIS 1s. ALL- vt.~'i Ntct::, SvT \'tHcQ.E.'S ~TILL, SOME'THIN6 , .. 0AN GR£EN [ No FuN! NoT' IN f'\'1 J)o~NS! M \ s> INc;., :X: J\Ji E:D SoMEiHIIII6 T~UL\l C,VIL -r.o Do! :! rJ£ED SOME; I t>f:FIS! .:r NGEt> 11> \t' AI..~ rO • . , fiND ou-r Wl-tA'T HAf'l'f.NS NGl\t' 1-JEtk. · ·- Wf:ltN UovStt>l6 Atolb FooD 5efZ.I/'l(f Gf.i ·\f'oe:.ffi-\Ef<.! f11~es fol. MI~EI> ,AIEA~s?!

Upperclassmen Starting Fri., Oct. 1Oth, Dinner .. All Meals Fri. NJte, Sat. . and Sun. will be Served . at West Dining Hall. - Old Chapel will resume meals Lunch · Ti111e, Mon.,· Oct. 13th. All Students Interested ~n . Term Abroad to Israel Winter '87 A meeting wlU be held · on Monday, September 29, 1986 at 4:30 pin in SSllO .for all the students signed up for the term Abroad to Israel and for a II students who are in~ . terested in going (ap- . plications are stiU bein.g accepted!) ·Philosphy Forum You are invited to · attend the first meeting of the Philosophy Forurn Thursday; Sept. 25th at 4 .p.-m. in the Human~ties Lounge, The _ .o~j~ctiy~. ;~f. ~he· Forum is to encourage students and faculty of all disciplines to join and discuss philosophi·cal issues. The primary purpose . of this meeting wilt be to plan ali Ottober discussion series focusing on Terrorism. Your ideas and par- ticipation are essenti-a I to the Forum's. success. Please fell free to contact either Of us if you are unable to attend or have any questions .. we hope to see you .there. Judy ~hilipson 386-4016 Diane Stubbins 386-4291 THE I~T£1r~AT11t~AL STIIItEIT ll~llt~ \\'ILL DE -IIILDIIC IT'S FieST GEIERAL iiETIIC, T.IRS SEPT 2S lT 7:10 Pill SS ft11. ILL STIIII.TS liE WEttlil. REIEIICH PAPEII 16,276 to flhcx)se fn>m-all.subjects Order Catalog Today with VisaiMC or COD 800-351-0222 ii . . ln·Callf.l213)477-8226 Or, rush $2.00 to: R .... rch A .. latii!'IC8 · 113221daho Ave. #206-SN1 L.ps Angeles, CA 90025 custom research aJsQ available-all levels . CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 As a Marine Officer,5UU COuld be in Chargeof a a frefunanor sOphomore, l!Skabout Out under- Mach 2 + F /A-1&\, a vertical take-off~r or graduate officer commissioning programs. If5Uu're a one ofoiU' other jets or heliCQpters. And)'Ol! could ·junior, check out om· graduate programs. Starting do itby lhe time youh~ 23. Butit takes a specJal salaries are from: $17,000 to $23,000. And · oo.rnmi1Inenton your part We .-----~--~ you can count on demandle<!dersatall!evels. G- 0 ~o.,.J.~~... furlher ... fuster. Wete2chyoutobeone. Ifyou're · ' .la~Ult,~••• Ot986AT&T · faster. QUESTION #1. See Capt. Mokan in the lower level of Hale House on 29&3GSep 86 between 10 am and 3 p111 or call {51 I) 472-3640 or 1·800-,342-2408 . -··a)- Al&T -for everyday discounts of 40% to over · 50o/o oft weekday rates on out-of-state ~ails. b) Short bursts of intense study followed by hours of frantic partying • c) AT&T -for exceptional value and high quality • • servtce. d) AT&T -for collect, third-party and operator- assisted long. distance calls. e) Any class. that does not confli.ct witt. \The Love Connection~' , [f you picked A, C and D, you're destined for great things. Like AT&T Long Distance Service. AT&r offers so many terrific values. Like a 40% to over 50% discount off our day rate on night, evening, and weekend out-of -state calls. Imagine what you'll do with the money you could save. Imagine what your parents would do if they found out. Of course, you can count on AT&T for clear long distance conneetions any place you call. And 4-T&I' gives you immediate credit for wrong numbers. · To find out more about why you should ehoose AT&r, give us a call. And if you picked B an,d E, call any- way. You could probably use someone to talk to. Call toll ... free tod;w, at t 1800 222-0300. ATa.T The right choice. . Page 17

'Page 18 CONCORDIE_NSIS, Septe1nber 25, 1986 Field Hockey team in recent game. They are 3-0 this f.all; look to be contender. Ice Hockey's \Dryland\ has begun. The Dutchmen lost many key players to graduation and will have to work harder this year. MBA COLLOQUIUM SERIES Fall1986 Bailey Hall312 September 25,3:45 p.m. Dr. John Morris, Presi.dent, Union College- \Moral Issues in the Rationing of Care for the Critically Ill\ October 9, 3:30p.m. Frank Mauro, Secretary, Ways and Means Committee, NYS Assembly- \E;ftects of Changes in Federal Tax System on NYS Tax Policy October 16,3:45 p.m. Murray C. Wells, AAA Distinguished International Visiting Lecturer in Accoun'ting - \Issues in Graduate Management Education\ October 30, 3:45p.m. Dr. James P. Quaile, Corporate Research and Development, General Electric Co. - \Industrial Information Systems in R&D\ November6, 3:45p.m. James Kenney, President & C.E.O., Fort Orange Bank (in formation)- \E))tablishing a Bank for Small Business\ November 13,3:45 p.m. Ray Sweeney, Director, NYS Office of Health Systems ·t.anagement - \Reimbursement and Health Care Finance ssues\ FRATERNITY OPEN DRY RUSH FUNCTIONS SATURDAY, SE.PTEMBER 27- DELTA CHI-lstAnnual Delta Chi Day at the Girling Center- 2-6pm THURSDAY,.OCTOBER 2- PHI GAMMA DELTA- Saratoga night at the races, 7 pm with transportation provided. PHI DELTA THETA- Poker, Pool, Flicks, and Food, 6-12 pm at Phi Delta Theta PHI DELTA CHI -At the Movies with Theta Delta Chi - 8-12 pm FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3 PHI SIGMA KAPPA- Footballgame.and hamburger cookout 4pm KAPPA SIGMA- Barbeque5pm CHECK NEXT WE·EK FOR MORE INFORMATION ON i.Jp. COMING DRY RUSH FUNCTIONS. · Sponsored by the I FC Qtnncnrbitnsts SPORTS Runne-rs Face Tough Competition By ANDY HODGI_\.IN The Union men's and women's cross-country team opened u,p their season this past Saturday afternoon ln Williamstown, Mass. at the Williams Invitational hosted by Williams College, The men finished the day sixth out of ten teams and the lady Dutchmen finished thirteenth oat of fif· teen. Reed leads Dutchmen Dutchmen was seni()r Mike Reed who plac'ed sixteenth overall with a tinle of 27:16. ln the second position for the Dutchmen was senior Bob Stenard with a finish overall of thirtyuone. The middle three of the Union top five :were bunched up dose together at the finish. with Dave DeFilippo and Steve Szydlik following closely behind . Stenard in places thirty-seven nd thirty-eight .. Rounding out the Union quintet. was 8enior Neal Rick:s finishing fiftieth overall. Br;~dy leads Ladies In the men's meet, the Dut:- cbmen scored 173 points which placed them in their sixth place berth, ten points abead ·of Vermont but well behind the Ill the women's race fresh- first place team, Bates College, man Eileen Brady led the who scored a, low of 43 points~ Dutchmen fi:bish~ng twenty- The winners were p-aced .by eighth overall in a time of 20:10 standout and .AU-American _ over the 3.1 mile course. Robert Fitzgerald Wh() won the Springfield College ·easily race over the 5.1 cou.rse in a outdistanced the field as a time of 25:33. Leading the team, scoring thirtY-Bix points. Miss Jenny Lee Russ Ebbets' women's squad sorely missed Jenny Lee from the meet. Lee is out for the season with appendicitis. Ebbets felt the wornen could have scored fifty points better with Lee in the lineup. Those who did contribute to the team effort were Lori Anderson who placed sec()nd for the team and forty-first overall. Rounding out the top five for the ladie$ were three· Dutchmen .making their debut 'in cross .. country at the college level. Third through fifth for Union was Sberri Cargile, Dorothy Taylor, and Jen Regan. Both cross. country teams will be off this coming weekend but get back into action -the following weekend when tbey will compete in the· LeMoyne Invitational. Good luck to both squads on th~ rest of their season. Women's So!=cer team action. M~re scoring is needed for the Dutchwomen to .turn things around. Darin leads the attack in game against Siena last year. Fall Lacrossepractice has'begun. Laxmen look to be strong. ----------~------------------------------------ - . . I You· MAKE THE ·CA:LL Should Union student I athletes be made to Undergo drug '? tests. .. At Union, under NCAA rules, all atllletic participants m·ust sign i a waiver, before the first regular season game/ req.uiring. random I drug testing in post-season play. I I I I I I I I I I I I' I . I D 1 agree with the NCAA D 1 di$agree with the NCAA Make your vote known by dropping off your answer -at Concordiensis ,.3rd . floor, Old Chapel. Results will be shown in next week.,s paper. _ r . ----------~-----------------------~ ------------- 0 0 .c c. .0 vi

'Page 18 CONCORD!ENSJS, September 15, 1986 Field Hockey team in recent game. They are 3-0 this fall; look to be contender. 1 ce Hockey's \Dry land\ has begun. The Dutchmen lost many key players to graduation and will have to work harder this year. MBA COLLOQUIUM SERIES Fall1986 Bailey Hall312 September 25, 3:45.p.m. Dr. John Morris, President, Union College- \Moral Issues in the Rationing of Care for the Critically Ill\ October 9, 3:30p.m. Frank Mauro, Secretary, Ways and Means Committee, NYS Assembly- \Effects of Changes in Federal Tax System on NYS Tax Policy October 16,3:45 p.m. Murray C. Wells, AAA Distinguished International Visiting Lecturer in Accounting · \Issues in Graduate Management Education\ October 30, 3:45 p.m. Dr. James P. Quaile, Corporate Research and Development, General Electric Co. - \Industrial Information Systems in R&D\ November6, 3:45p.m. James Kenney, President & C.E.O., Fort Orange Bank (in formation) -\Establishing a Bank for Small Business\ November 13,3:45 p.m. Ray Sweeney, Director, NYS Office of Health Systems J\anagement - \Reimbursement and Health Care Finance ssues\ FRATERNITY OPEN DRY RUSH FUNCTIONS SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27- DE L T A CHI - 1st Annua I Delta Chi Day at the Girl ing Center- 2·6pm THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2- PH I GAMMA DELTA- Saratoga night at the races, 7 pm with transportation provided. PHI DELTA THETA- Poker, Pool, Flicks, and Food. 6-12 pm at Phi Delta Tlleta PHI DELTA CHI -At the Movies with Theta Delta Chi- 8-12 pm FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3 PHI SIGMA KAPPA· Football game and hamburger cookout 4pm KAPPA SIGMA- BarbequeSpm CHECK NEXT WEEK FOR MORE INFORMATION ON UP- COMING DRY RUSH FUNCTIONS. Sponsored by the I FC illnncnroiensis SPORTS Runners Face Tough Competition By ANDY HODGKIN The Union men's and wemen's cross-country team opened up their season this past Saturday afternoon in Wi:lliamsto\vn, Mass. at the Williams Invitational hosted by Williams College. The mea finished the day sixth out of ten teams and the lady Dutc:hrnen finished thirteenth out ()£ fif- teen. Reed leads Dutchmen In the men's meet, the Dut- chmen scored 173 points -which placed them in their sixth place berth, ten points ahead of Vermont but well behind the first place terun, Bates C()llege, who scored a low of 43 !)Oints. The winners were paced by standout and All-American Robert Fitzgerald who W()n the race over the 5.1 course in a time of 2!>:33. Leading the Dutchmen was senior Mike Reed who plac'ed sixteenth overall with a time of 27:16. Ln the seco11d position for the Dutchmen was senior Bob Stenard with a finish overall of thirty-one. 'The middle three of the Union top five were bunched up close t()gether at the finish with Dave DEFilippo and Steve Szydlik following closely behind Stenard in places thirty-seven nd thirty-eight. Rounding out the Union quintet was senier Neal Ricks finishing fiftieth overall. Br;ady leads Ladies In the women's race fresll- man Eileen Brady led the Dutchmen finishing twenty- eighth over;all in a time of 20: 10 over the :l.l mile course. Springfield College easily outdistanced the field as a team, scoring thirty-six points. Miss Jenny Lee Russ Ebbets' women's squad sorely missed Jenny Lee from the meet. Lee is out for the season with appendicitis. Ebbets felt the women could have scored fifty points better with Lee in the lineup. Those who did contribute to the team effort were Lori Anderson who placed second for the team and forty-first overall. Rounding out the top five for the ladies were three Dutchmen making their debut in cross-country at the college level. Third through fifth for Union was Sherri Cargile, Dorothy Taylor, and Jen Regan. Both cross country teams will be off this coming weekend but get back into action the following weekend when they will compete in the LeMoyne Invitational. Good luck to both squads on the rest of their season. women's Soccer team action. M~re scoring is needed for the Dutchwomen to turn things around. Darin leads the attack in game against Siena I ast year. Fall Lacrosse practice has begun. Lax men look to be strong. ----------------------------------------------- • I I I I YOU MAKE THE CALL Should Union student I athletes be made to Undergo drug tests? ~ At Union, under NCAA rules, all athletic participants must sign a waiver, before the first regular season game, requiring random drug testing in post-season play. I 0 1 agree with the NCAA I .I I I I D I disagreewith the NCAA I i I I I I I I I 1 Make your vote known by dropping off your answer at Concordiensis, 3rd 1 1 floor,OidChapel. Resultswillbesl1owninnextweek'spaper. 1 . I I I ------- ... --------- .... -------------- ......... - 'lD'- -~ -..------------- ... 0 .,_ 0 .r::: a. 0 (j') ~ J: a. 0 - If)

0 0 .c. 0. vi CONCORDIENSIS, September 25, 1986 Page 19 <!tnncnr~iensis SPORT'S Charli,e Slotnlk - Athlete of the Week Looking . at S,po:rts By DOUGLAS LLC>TI> In this second wee!\ o:f sports this fall, Kristine Tierney . has been selected as Union's \Athlete of the Week\. It was just last spring that Kristine was honored for the same award, that being fo()r ber superb pitching on the softball te~. This faU, however, she is an intricate force on the field hockey team. · · . Kristine~ a sophom()re ()Ut ·of Canton, Massacbw;etts; is a second year starterfol\tlle team and scored a hat,;trick in .the team's firSt gaine this seaSQn against Vassar~-Kristm~,. out of her Ili.i.dfield pc>sitiori 1 ltas four points (three goals; onec assist) . · ... so far and has contributed immensely to · the team's defense which has yet to allow a goal in their three .games thus . far this sellson. Although the season is stiU young and the goalies are inexperienced, things will ~ontinue to go the Dutchmen's way if Kristine and her teammates stay at their bigll level of play. Kristiae attended Canton . High School where she was awardedAll..Star status in Field .Hockey as a senior. As a new Delta Gamma sister and. a Dean's List member, along· with her fine play on the field, Kristine's .sophomore year shQuld be an exciting one. Co~gratulations, once again, as ••• need to get hot being one of a select few that , have received \Athlete· of tne · Week\ in two sports, let alone for someone who has only been at Union for four terms . Kristihe Tierney Pat Riley, a native of Schenectady, NY implanted in Los Angeles came back to his : hometown last Wednesday. The head coach of the L.A. Lakers received the publicity and fanfare one would expect a Hollywood celebrity to get. Visit well publicized An audience that included cameramen from all three local telev1sion stations, several reporters · from area newspapers, and residents .of that game the \Ultimate Confrontatbn. 't Riley's discussion of problems was the most well thought ()tit and significant part of hts speecl'l. \Everyone )las · pr9blems,. ~P'roblems constitate a sign of life,.\ said Riley. The coach illllStroatedthe problem of his star f~l\w:ard Michael Cooper wanting one million dollars a year, and management believing Cooper only to .be worth . $750,000 as an example of the varying degrees of problems people m our societyhoave. If only more ()f us had &oper\s problem-but for Mr. Ct.oper, it is, in fact, a Late Goals ·Hurt Booters · Schenectady, came to the social . science building at Union · CoUege to hear Riley deliver his sermon. problem. .. ''The l)nly place where people dQn't have problems is in the cemetery,\' according to Riley. \One must always deal and react to pr()l>lems, for they are a part of life,\ Riley reminded ltis audience. By RICH GOLDMA.N' . The men's Varsity soccer team travelled to King.':S Point Saturday to play the Pnited States Merchant :Marine Academy. Th.elinalscorewas 2• 2. ' No shots allowed for more than 30 min. Union scored first witb about 12 minutes left in the fll-st half. Bob Crandall scQred Ol\ a head ball when Dan Pittenger placed the ball into. a crowd in front of Kings Point's net. That was all the scDrillg either team could muster ·in the first half dominated by Union. There were no shots on Union goalie Jon LaD!Jke in the first half as Union outshot Kings Point, 13-0. 2udbalf brings trouble In the second half, Union scored quickly making the score 2-0 on a g()al by 'Steve Hartmann siX minutes into the half. It was' at this }Hlint that DU~CitMEN SPO.RTSWEEK .9/25. 107{31 Thursday 9/25 W; Soccer vs. IJingharni[)n Friday 9/'1.6 'Fiel(i Hockey at Rochester Saturday 9/27 · · FQotball at Colby · M, soccer vs. Bingharn1on · J.V. soccer vs .. Bingllcrnton . ·.Field Hock.~Y atWells w. Tennis at North Adilms Volleybe~.ll vs. Green Nc~tntain · w. Soccer atPiattsbu~gh Monday9/29 J..V, Football vs. Middleb~;~ry Tuesday 9/30 J.V. Soccer at Hartwick J.V'. Field Hock~y at Herkimer W. Soccer at Hamiltcm Wednesday 10/1 M. Soccer vs. Albany St. Field Hockey at Oneonta J. V. Field Hockey af·0·11eonta w .. I ennis at Oneonta 4:00 7:00 1:30 2:00 2:00 . 1:00 ' 1:00 11:00 2:00 3:00 3:30 2:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 4:45 3:30 coach Bob Magee made a goalie switch, replacing sophomore Jon LaDuke, who had not faced any shots, with senior AI Tragesser, a nearby native of Kings Point. Soon after, things went sour for Union as their opponents made good on the two of three shots they were allowed throughout the .game. Union continued to domfuate the play watil Kings Point capitalized with 14 minutes left in regulation; the shot hit the crossbar and bounced in. Kings £oint took ac;lvantage of another 'hmg chance with 5~ minutes l.~ft; in the ga.me~. This was off a head ball fromta.·direct kick out of the left corner.' . - Onl.Y 3 shots ·taken by Marines In overtime, Uriion_ again dominate<! but each team had excellent opportunities to score. The defense of Union and the goalkeeping of G:ene Tyranski of Kibgs· Point kept the score even. Throughout the day, Union bad several good op- portqnities to score but could not seem to buy a goal. Union had 31 shots and Tyranaki made 17 saves. Union moves to ~1-1, and Kings Point t-o 3-2ul. Union will have to.put more shots in the net Wednesday against Hamilton if they want a victory and also at home· Satlll',day against rival . Binghamton. ~- Riley appeared at Union as the first speaker in the 1986-87 • Minerva Hour Speaker Series. Prior to becoming the coach of · the .L. A. Lakers, Riley was an All-American basketball player at the University of Kentucky and a player on the Lakers. Riley is a highly regarded figure in the N.B.A., and one of the premier coaches in the league. H()wever, Riley's speech told the audience very · little about basketball, or life in the N.B.A. But, instead, Riley chose to use the un- predictability of basketball as a way to tell the audience about his views on life. How you 'deal' with life's problems is most Important The fullatime coach, and occasional preacher told the audience what they could do to bnprove their own lives as well asthe lives of the people aroWld them. Riley stressed to ''Be what you are,\ and to strive to \Be the best person you can be.'' Riley described the most critical game in his life to be in 1985. After losing to the Boston Celtics in Game One of the championship series by 38 points in Boston, the Lakers had to play the Celtics three days later on the same court in front of a television audience of 2o-30 million people. Riley considered Furtherrmre, Riley stressed that evel.\yone can achieve something in life, but. first, they must dream.. '\Determination Dedicatioll, Discipline, and Attitude ar-e the ladder to your dreams,'''said R.iley. According to Riley, y()urdreams will come true if one trEJly JlOSSesses these qualities. IDspiratitmal and Uplifting Although Riley's speech was inspirational and uplifting, he did contracliet hlmself when he said, ''to be proudof your past\ and then referring to the past as a \cancelled cbeck\ implyillg to forget tile past, and live for each moment. Pat . Riley was a refreshing face to have <»n campus, but his words will do little ·to change people's lives. Instead of at• tempting to metamorphasize us, Riley -llh()llld have been content· witll amusing us with more anecdCltes about people be came in e<~11tact With; which he did effectivEly when he spoke about hi$ relationship with the Laker's ovme:r . \A coach ·is ollly as good as his players,..\ is the old cliche,. and Pat Riley pl\'oved that, for his words will certainly not cause any ·rniiacles. Pizza Pub Retu,ns! 370-6060 Whether you order pizza, subs, soda, snacks, popcorn, or anything else from t.he Rock 'n Roll Pizza Pub, you're not only getting better prices than off\campus pizzarias, yo11're supporting student workers as well. Think about it. Delivery is free, on or off-campus, during all business hours. We're open 7 days a week from 1:30 to 12:00 a.m. throughout the school year. The money generated by the Pizza Pub goes back towards student inter.ests and Union Colleg·e. A.:nd besides; it's good pizza! Honest! So please visit us at 1st floor West College or call for delivery, Our menu is as follows: 8-cut Pizza 6-cu.t Pizza slices-still only full sub half S.,i,Jb popcorn soda cookie Drake'scakes juice $5.00 $4.00 .80!!! $2.75 $1.75 .50 .50 .so .so .60 NeW! DOUGHNUT.S $1.00 per half doz:en Freihoffer's and more coming soon toppings include: pepperoni mushrooms peppers onions olives e>Ctra cheese ..• and soon ... (taco brocoolli sausage pinapple) (Minimum $5.00 order (or 6-cut pizza) for delivery, toppings subjecttoav ailability .) .,,

0 ~ 0 .s:: a. 0 (f) ' ' ( CONCORDJENSIS, September 25, 19116 Page 19 OJonrnrbiensis SPORTS Charlie Slotnlk Athlete of the Week Looking at Sports By DOUGLAS LLOYD In this second week of sports this faU, Kristine Tierney has been selected as Union's \Athlete of the Week\. It was just last spring that Kristine was honored for the same award, that being for her superb pitching on the softball team. This fall, however, she is an intricate force on the field hockey team. Kristine, a sophomore out of Canton, Massachusetts, is a second year starter for the team and scored a hat-trick in the team's first game this season against Vassar~ Kristine, out of her midfield position, has four points (three goals, one assist) so far and has contribufed immensely to the team's defense which has yet to allaw a goal in their three games thus far this season. Although the seasan is still young aAd the goalies are inexperienced, things will t!ontinue to go the Dutchmen's way if Kristine and her teammates stay at their high level of play. Kristine attended Canton High School where she was awarded All.Star status in Field Hockey as a senior. As a new Delta Gamma sister and a Dean's List member, along with her fine play on the field, Kristine's sophomore year should be an exciting one. Congratulations, once again, as ••• need to get hot being one of a select few that have received \Athlete of the Week'' in two sports, let alone for someone who has only been at Union for four terms. Kristine Tierney L. 111 c. c. ro :¥: c: ro ;,:;: >- .0 0 .... 0 .s:: Q. Pat Riley, a native of Schenectady, NY implanted in Los Angeles came back to his hometown last Wednesday. The head coach of the L.A. Lakers received the publicity and falifare one would expect a Hollywood celebrity to get. Visit well publicized that game the \Ultimate Confrontation.\ Riley's discussion of problems was the most well thought out and significant part <>f his speech. \Everyone has )lroblems, problems constitute a sign of life,\ said Riley. The <!oach illustrated the problem of bis star forward, Michael Cooper wanting one million dollars a year, and management believing Cooper only to be worth $750,000 as an example of the varying degrees of problems people m cur society have. If oAly more of 118 had Cooper's problem-but f()r Mr. Cooper, it is, in fact, a Late Goals Hurt Booters An audience that included cameramen from aU three loeal telEvision stations, sever.al rep()rters · from area newspapers, and residents of ~henectady, came to the social sdence building at Union College to hear Riley deliver llis seMnon. problem. .. \The only place where people don't have problems is in the cemetery,'' according to Riley. ••one must always deal and react to problems, for they are a IJBrt of life,\ Riley reminded his audience. By RICH GOLDMAN The men's Varsity soccer team travelled to King's Point Saturday to play the United States Merchant Marine Academy. The .final score was 2- 2. No shots allowed for more than 30 min. Union. scored first with about 12 minutes left in the first hall. Bob Crandall scored on a head ball when Dan Pittenger placed the ball into a crowd in front of Kings Point's net. That was all the scoring either team could muster in the first half dominated by Union. There were no shots on Union goalie Jon LaDuke in the first half as Union outshot Kings Point, 13-o. 2nd half brings trouble In the second half, Union scored quickly making the score 2-o on a goal by ·Steve Hartmann six minutes into the half. It was at this point that OUTCHMENSPORTSWEEK 9/25 - 1 02fa1 Thursday 9/25 W. Soccer vs. Binghamton Friday9/26 Field Hockey at Rochester Saturday 9/27 Football at Colby M. Soccer vs. Binghamt()n J.V. Soccervs. Binghamton Field Hockey at Wells W. Tennis at North Adams Volleyball vs. Green Mountain W. Soccer at Plattsburgh Monday9/29 J.V. Football vs. Middlebury Tuesday 9/30 J.V. Soccer at Hartwick J.V. Field Hockey at Herkimer w. Soccer at Hamilton Wednesday 10/1 M. Soccer vs. Albany St. Field Hockey at Oneonta J.V. Field Hockey at Oneonta W. Tennis at Oneonta 4:00 7:00 1:30 2:00 2:00 1:00 1:00 11 :00 2:00 3:00 3:30 2:00 3:30 3:30 3:30 4:45 3:30 coach Bob Magee made a goalie switch, replacing sophomore Jon LaDuke, who had not faced any shots, with senior Al Tragesser, a nearby native of Kings Point. Soon after, things went sour for Union as their opponents made good on the two of three shots they were allowed throughout the game. Union continued to domfuate the play until Kings Point capitalized with 14 minutes left in regulation; the shot hit the crossbar and bounced in. Kings ;!?oint took advantage of another ~mg chance with 5lfz minutes left in the game .. :rtns was off a head ball fromoa-direct kick out of the left corner. Onl_y 3 shots taken by Marines In overtime, Utiloo. again dominated but each team had excellent opportunities to score. The defense of Union and the goalkeeping of Gene Tyranski of Kihgs Point kept the score even. Throughout the day, Union had several good op- portunities to score but could not seem to buy a goal. Union had 31 shots and Tyranski made 17 saves. Union moves to 2-1-1, and Kings Point to 3-2-1. Union will have to put more shots in the net Wednesday against Hamilton if they want a victory and also at home Saturday against rival Binghamton. Riley appeared at Union ;as the first speaker in the 1986~7 Minerva Hour Speaker Series. ?rior to becoming the coach ()f the L. A. Lakers, Riley was an AJJ-American basketball player at th.e University of Kentllcky and a player on the Lakers. ltiley is a higWy regarded fig11re in the N.B.A., and one of tlu premier coaches in tile league. However, Riley•s speech told the audience very littLe about basketball, or life iJJ tll.e N.B.A. But, instead, Riley ch()se to use the un· predictability of basketball as a w.ay to tell the audience about his views on life. How you 'deal' with life's problems is most important The full-time coach, and occasional preacher told the au!l.ience what they could do t<l improve their O'Wil lives as well asfbe lives of the people around them. Riley stressed to '\Be wllat you are,\ and to strive t() \Be the best person you em be.\ Riley described the most critical game in his life to be ill 1~. After losing to the Bosto11 Celtics in Game One of the clumpionship sedes by 3~ ))()illts in Boston, the Lakers ha<l to play the Celtics three days later on the same court in fromt of a television audience of 20-30 million people. Riley considered Furthennore, Riley stressed that everyone can achieve S()mething in life, but first, they must dream. \Determination Dedication, Discipline, and Attitude are the ladder to your dreams,\ said Riley. According to Riley, your dreams will come tTUe if one truly possesses these g_11alities. Inspirational and Uplifting Although Riley's speech was illspirational and uplifting, he !lid contradict himself when he said, \to be proud of your past'', and then referring to the past as a \cancelled check\ implying to forget the past, and live for each moment. Pat Riley was a refreshing face to have on campus, but his words will do little to change people's lives. Instead of at- tempting to metamorphasize U5, Riley should have been oontent with amusing us with more anecdotes about people he came in contact with; which he did effectively when he spoke about his relationship with the Laker's owner. \A coach is only as good as his players,\ is the old cliche, and Pat Riley proved that, for his words will certainly not cause any miracles. Pizza Pub Returns! 370-6060 Whether you order pizza, subs/ soda, snacks, popcorn, or an)' thing else from the Rock 'n Roll Pizza Pub, you're not only getting better prices than off-campus pizzarias, you're supporting student workers as well. Think about it. Delivery is free, on or off·campus, during all business hours. We're open 7 days a week from 1:30 to 12:00 a.m. throughout the school year. The money generated by the Pizza Pub goes back towards student interests and Union College. And besides; it's good pizza! Honest! So please visit us at 1st floor West College or call for delivery. Our menu is as follows: 8-cut Pizza 6-cut Pizza slices-still only full sub half sub popcorn soda cookie Drake'scakes juice $5.00 $4.00 .80!!! $2.75 $1.75 .50 .50 .so .50 .60 NEW! DOUGHNUTS $1.00 per lla If dozen Freihoffer's and more coming soon toppings in clu!le: pepperoni mushrooms peppers onions olives extra cheese ... and soon ... (taco brocoolli sausage pin apple) CMinimlJm $5.00 order (or 6·cut pizza) for delivery, toppingsslJbject to availability.) ' ' • • ' • • • ' • • ' ~ • • j • \ • ' ' • • • . . I • ' - ' • ....

0 ..... 0 .c: A 0 Cl) Dutchmen undefeated at 2-0. .See.story ·Below· September 25, 1986 Ruggers look to be Physical • tl • successful but not pretty By CHRIS SHERIDAN Albrecht,wmbeamajorfactor : Football Rumbles O:v~r Rochester \I think we have one of the strongest teams Union has ever had,\ conunented Rob Sharp, co-captain of the Rugby club. Union'sruggers will need one of its strongest teams ever this weekend when they go up against Albany State-a strong, hard-hitting team. ''Albany is a hard-hitting team,\ Sharp continued. \They are one of our big rivals. It should be a brutal, physical game. There will be lots of injuries, but all on the other side.'' .. , Union's other coG captain, Steve Konlian agreed with Sharp. \They'll be out for blood.\ Albany hasn't beaten Union for over three years. \If the team can come together it won't even be much of a game,\ he continued. Konlian men- tioned that if the team carl work the transition from the scrwn to the line, Union's chances will be even better for a victory. Union's eighth man, Jeff in that transition. With his running ability and stl\'ength he should greatly help b()th serum By BOB KOCH and lin~. . When the Union Dutchmen .Another factor tllat could help ·' stepped on the field Saturday both the A-side and B-side .. afternoon to face the University ruggers win their upcoming . of Rochester Yellowjackets matcb is the play of the. fresh- · there were not many who would men. ~'They (the freshmen) : h.ave predicted. last year's show a l()t of spirit,\ Sharp said. • NCAA Division III quarter- \ There are a lot of hard hitters · finalists to bave had any willing t<> rough it 11p. ,, : · tro-uble. The Dutchmen were Line-captain Konlian agreed. :_playing a very young and \We have foul\' l\'eturning ' ineXperienced Rochester ball seniors and a lot of young new . : clttb that had nothing to lose. talent. It's the bigg~sttlll'Ilout of · A.s fate had it, the Dutchmen freshmen since I can remem- ·: won 28-0, but it was not easy. ber. They're int() the game. 'rhis seemingly insignificant They're jllSt learnng but they game had more importance to have a l<>t of raw talent. Each '' the Dutchmen thari it had for game they'll get 1Jetter and · their adversary because of its better. I believe ihat the indicative nature of how the combination of both experience Du.tchmen will perform and raw desire will bring the ' throughout the season. championship back to us.\ Kollliim, along with the rest of the team, believes that if Union can beat Albany, no one will stop tb.em. - Fans Remember Last · Year's Team Injuries Plague Ladies · ... facing a gloQmy start Riding on the game were the improvements that starting quart~rback Tim Valachovic . bad made during the week and ·. whether Union~s offense ad- jllsted to its new leader. Union was coming off a sloppy victory .IJver Hobart last Saturday and had to prove that its offense had tlle ability to produce the kind of attack that will keep the Dut- ehmeri in contention for pt)st season action. ByLEONAWETHERELL The women's soccer team began their season on the down swing with three losses but their chins are up in preparation for the rest of the season. The first game was played here on the turf against Southampton. A large crowd came to cheer the Union hooters on but their yell wasn't quite loud enough-they lost, 4-1. The team played well for their ·first time on the turf, on top of that, Southampton is in Division II so the loss wasn't a surprise. 4 injuries at Green Mountain The second game took place in the rolling hills of Vermont at Green Mountain. The Ver- monters proved to be quite a burly bunch wbeil the Union girls began to dr'op like flies. Victirrls of the Green Mountain swatters were co-cavtain Leona Wetherell with an ankle injury, freshman Vicky Wise suffered a drsloeated shoulder, Lynn Erdman received a bead infury, and freshman Wendy Vincent with another ankle injury. After a trip to the Granville, NY hospital to reset Wise's shoulder, the team made their way back to Uni<>n -with a 6...0 loss. The third game, at Mount Holyoke, began strong, but Union could not retain that strengtll throughout \the whole game. With a buncll of injured girls fl\'om the Vermont massacre, Union bowed to Mount Holyoke, I).{). Union faces Binghamton at home today. Support Union Sports! 'I'be first half of Saturday,s game had some one hundred fans and cheerleaders who had ·made the trip~ wondering where Ute old magic of the Dutchmen llf yesteryear was. It appeared that each time Union started to move the ball and make two consecutive first downs, the engines just stopped. The of,;, fensive line was controlling the trenches, Valachovic was throwing fairly accurately, but something was not clicking. Union could not sustain any form of a substantial drive. This is not t<r say that Rochester was doing ~my better. The Yellowjackets had one decent drive and only 75 yards total offense in the first half. After 18 minutes of boring punt for punt football, Union received the ball on the Rochester 35-yard line folloWing what, yes, another bad punt. Union needed a score and went to the air taking ad- vantage of Rochester's weak linebacking corps .. V alachovic hit Jim Lafrance for a 7-yard gain, then connected·with CecU Bright for another 10. Union ·now had the ball on the 18-yard line where Valachovic lofted a pass into the end zone where a wide open Matt Smith ran under it. Union hit the locker room at halftime with an extremely unimpressive 7-0 lead. 2nd half much better In the locker room no dramatic changes were made. Coach Bagnoli gave what turned out to be a highly motivating . critical analysis to his team. Stressing the team's mediocre performance, the problem to be tangled with by the Dutchmen was just simple concentration and execution. Following the opening kick- . Qff of the second half, Rochester halfback Sam Guerrien coughed up t~e ball to give the Dutcfunen an opportunity to capitalize. Once · agabt, the Wo!f~en•s Tennis faces tough foes. defense came up with the big play to motivat~ the offense. It seemed a$. though Union had been infected with adrenalin after the furi:tble. After Cecil Bright picked up 16. yards on a reverse, ValachOvic hit George MeA voy, a graduate of Catholic Central High School in Troy, for a touchdown pass. At this point, the game was completely out ·of Rochester's control. The icing on the cake really came when sophomore Tirn McLees intercepted a pass at the-40-yard Une and strolled into the end zone. - In case Union .fans were wondering what happens if Valachovic gets hurt, coach Bagnoli gave the fans a taste of Linton High School graduate JimPoirer .. Poirer led a 53-yard scoring drive ·in the fourth. quarterthat was cappedoff.by a 29-yard touchdown pass to Cecil Bright. Look to Colby g~e Next week, the Dutchmen travel to Colby, Maine where they will need to score points in tb.e first quarter so they can sit back and enjoy the show like they . did two years ago by opening up a 35-point lead over Colby in the first quarter. Perhaps there are people who are st.!l skeptical about Union's ability to compete witb. Division m powerhouses, . Remember, last year's Dutchmen beat Rochester 28-0, .and it was that same Dutchmen team, led by Mike Gargiulo, who were trailing Coast Guard, 14·0, before Union found out what it was capable of. Stay TUned! ! ! ! ! !

