CXV No.9 Schenectady, New York Bulk Rate U.S. Postage ~;'aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 .bnuary 16, 1986 Cavoli . Launches Project s. Ri~harq .cavoli, herewitl:l his advisor .Professor Scaif.e, wiH send his project up in the spa(esh.Otfle. ' · .. Mandatory Signatures . • . By NICK PICCIRB.LO Staff S. Richard Cavoli, a Junior Chemistry-Biology major, has designed an experiment to grow crystals in space. His e:s:- periment will ride on the Space Shuttle that is scheduled for a January24launch. Its objective is to form more perfect, large - lead-iodide crystals in a weightless environment. Cavoli began working on the experiment at Marlboro Central High School near Poughkeepsie. He submitted the idea to a competition sponsored by NASA and the National Teachers' Association, and it became one of 20 experirnents-:from 2,800 entries-selected for a shuttle mission: Since Cavoli · entered Union, . ~ _ the .College has financed the project . and provided an ad- ~sor, chemiStry .pr~fessor Ch'arles Scaife. Ca;von and· Scaife have spent a great deal of time refining the experiment Considers Proposal By JOANNE McANDREWS Staff. A proposal to \improve the quality of the advising system'' was submitted to the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) by Professor William Thomas at the end of last term. One section of the proposal stipulates that an advisor's signature be mandatory for au students to register for courses. Thomas stated, '\Many students dislike the proposal, because they think they know the system. At the mQment, in some categories of freshmen, by the end of fall term they stop seeing their adVisor. and never get the advisor's signature prior to preregistration . . . The ad- vising system has become a whOle cycle where you· are responsible for the work, but you never get to leave the ad- vice.\ ''l appreciate the fact that sometimes it's ver:Y\'difficult to find an advisor. Under the new proposal, each department will post a list of when faculty are available. The missing advisor syndr'ome will disappear.\ .. Professor George . Smith, Chairman of the AAC com- mented, \I think it's a good proposal. What has. happened in the past iS that students who didn't consult with their ad• visors have come up short with· requirements .for graduation. I believe that tbe final respOn- students what courses to take.\ Advising is not only telling students what courses to take.\ ''We. can also sugge$t career options, alternatives, and other various kinds · of things that might not J:le apP,fll'ent to the student. i want the student to hear my suggestio~ . . . In conjunction with tbis proposal, the AAC has proposed an aimual College-supported advising workshop to be held each fall. This workshop would suggest ways for better and more ef- fective advising,\ added Smith. Kathy Keaveney Professor Theodore Schwarz, member ofthe AAC, remarked, \All the AAC is doing. is trying to put the advising system back - on track. I think that advisors should meet with their advisees at least once a term. How can I write a reconunendation .letter if I hardly know my advisee? . ·. . In addition to course suggestions, advisors can also give graduate school and career ideas.\ Chris Siler, President of the Student · Forum; declared, (!Mandatory advising . once a year seems sufficient to me, if the main purpose of this proposal is to monitor what students take, versus dictate what they should take. While it is probably true that most professors do not know the majority of their advisees, I·do not see this system as im- proving the situation to any great extent. With all of the students clamoring to get signatures from their advisors in the short tiine allotted before preregistration, the profeSsors would not be able to spare more than a few minutes .of their time.\ \College students should be able to handle the responsibility of fulfilling their Liberal Learning requirements. For those that can't handle this responsibility, a once-a-year check on their schedules would straighten them out,\ added Silver. Kathy Keaveney, '86, student representative to the AAC, said, · \I have mixed feelings. On one hand, students can benefit from advice in terms of what courses to take, and in what order to take certain courses, for example. On the other hand, I am sympathetic to the fact that it can be a hassle to get an advisor's signature every term.\ Keaveney added, \I am also sympathetic to the fact that not all advisors are as good as they could be. Specifically, most advisors have a strong idea about their departments; but not about other departments. It would be a good idea to update professors on a yearly basis. It is important for advisors to know as much about Union as possible so that they are able to help students. There is much pOtential for students if the advising system ~ improved.\ \Students could also benefit from more time between when Continued on page 2 and designing a cylinder which meets the guidelines set forth by NASA. Expenses for the project have totaled over $13,000, which includes machine shop equipment and staff, materials for appparatus, and trips taken by Cavoli to the Johnson Space ·Center in Houston. \Union is the only small, private college underwriting a student experiment\ aqds cavoli. ''The support of the College and the advice of Professor Scaife have been incredibly important in getting this experiment m~ifested\. Cavoli theorizes that the force of gravity slightly affects the shape of crystals formed on earth. In space, the zero gravity conditions .coul<l lead to latger crystais whose lattice ap- proaches a more perfect fonn. Applic~tlons for such crystals are m ~~ray film because X-:ray filin is coated.with crystals that help _create imag~· · Perfect crystals would increase the sensitivity of X-rays and, consequently, decrease the X- ray dosage necessary to do certain qiagnoses. Aboard the shuttle, the crystals will be formed on a semi-permeable membrane by bringing together lead and iodide ions dissolved in water. The specialists aboard the shuttle will open the valves in the transparent acrylic ap- paratus initiating the reaction. They will also make and record observations and film videotapes of the growing bright yellow crystals. Although Cavoli will not be on board the shuttle to observe his experiment, he and Scaife will be guests of NASA at Cape Canaveral on January 24 to watch the launch. The expenses will be financed through an IEF grant here at Union. The return of the shuttle to earth will not mean the end of the project, however. ''We'll be analyzing the crystals· using techpiques like X-ray crystallography, :and for much of the work we'll be able to use th~ College's chemistry and biology department resources',, says Scaife. \With a little luck, there will be no problems fin- ding the resources and equip- ment that will be needed for all the analysis to be done.\ The face of things to come .. Inside . • • Upcoming Events Calendar p. 4 The Perfect Relaxation p. 7

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 F~urth Sorority Arrives Joanne Tobiessen welcomes fourth sorority. By CHRISTINE HONG Staff A new sorority, Gamma Phi Beta, has come to Union. The· arrival of this sorority is of- ficially marked by its Rush Week which takes place January 14 to 17. On Tuesday January 14, an informational meeting was held in the Milano Lounge· where an Open House was held all day yesterday. At the Informational meeting, a slide show was shown and packets of information about the 111 year-old chapter were distributed. Tonight, Thursday J anuaty 16, the sorority wiH hold preference parties. On Friday, this week of hectic activity for Gamma Phi Beta will Minerva Series Continues The Minerva Hour series of free lectures will continue at Union College during January, February, and March. Talks are scheduled at 11:30 a.m. on Wednesdays on campus in the Music Room at Schaffer Library; they are open to the public. Professor of History at Duke University John Tepaske will speak on Jan. 22. Tepaske, a leading expert on the history of colonial Spanish America, has published widely in journals and composite volumes and is the author or editor of a dozen books, including The Gover- norship of Florida and The Royal Treasuries of the Spanish Empire in America. Richard J. Bartlett is Dean of the Albany Law School. He has been a member of the New York State Assembly, chairman of the New York State Crime Control Council, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court and chief administrative judge with responsibility for ad- ministering the New York court system. He will be the Jan. 29 Minerva speaker; his topic is \The Legal Profession as a Career.'' Bishop of the Roman Catholic Dioc~se of Albany, the Most Rev. Howard J. H1,1bbard, will appear on Feb: 5 speaking on \The Church and Public Policy.\ Active in many community and social welfare agencies as well as a variety of church organizations, he was a Students Interested In: Being Overtlight Hosts For Admissions, Contact Ann Lowery x6112 or Stop By Admissions founder of Hope House, a facility for the treatment and rehabilitation of drug addicts, and is chairman of the New York State Catholic Conference Public Policy Committee. He was appointed to the Secretariat for Non-Believers by Pope John Paul II. Art historian Roland Guillermoprieto will lecture on Feb. 19. Guillermoprieto is a lecturer at The Center for Bilingual, Multicultural Studies in Mexico. A native of Mexico City, he has lived and studied in the United States, England and the Bahama Islands and his paintings have been exhibited throughout the world. In 1983-84 he wss Lilly Distinguished Foreign Professor at Earlham College· in· Indiana. · · \Cuban Foreign Policy~ Pawn ofthe USSR or Champion of the Non-Aligned?\ is the title of the Feb. 26 lecture by Gary Prevost. Prevost is Associate Professor of Government at Sainf John's University in Collegeville, Minn. A 1969 graduate of Union, he was active in the Minnesota Peace Action CoaJition and the National Peace Action Coalition during the 1970' f?. He has done research in Spain and Central American and is the author of Politics and Change in Spain. FRESHMEN & • & ~ • SOPHOMORES Positions open for two (2) Freshmen Representatives and one ( 1) Sophomore Representative f'o the' Student Forum. January 17th-4:00p.m., Information Session, 3rd Floor, Old Chapel. · January 20th - 8:30 a.m., Petitions available, Student Activities Office. Photos 7 p.m.; Concordiensis office. January 21st - 4:00 p.m., Election Statements Due, Concordy Office. January 23rd - Noon, Petit~ons due, Student Activities Office. January 24th ELECTIONS. ' Problems Qr Questions c:aH Andy· (377-4169) or Julie \' • ' • ' ' ., ~ !'>' • ....... ·~ .- • • • 6752. cuhninate with the pledging of this chapter's first sisters. According to Brooke Bailey, the Expansion S~pervisor who will be staying with the group until next year, Gamma Pill Beta is planning to admit ap- proximately fifty women. · The colonization of Gamma Phi Beta on the Union campus Will be a process that will last for about two years~ .A:lready, it has taken one and a half years for Panhellenic to admit the sorority on campus. The process included the formation of a corrunittee, comprised of faculty, administr!'J.tors, Greeks, and non~Greeks, to investigate and select ap- propriate sororities. for Union. Ms. Bailey, Expansion Supervisor for Gamma Phi Beta, feels that the sorority received substantial support since it has been on campus from both Greeks and non- Greeks. Of the Greek life, she said, \1 think that now that the drinking age has changed, · Greek life is going to be more appealing; since It is a great way to gain friends, participate in activities and . meet joh contacts.\ She added that she wished to thank all the GreekS for the support that they have received here. · Gamma Phi Beta was foundded in 1874 at Syracuse University, and there ar~ presently 124 chapters across We're pleased to have Gamma Phi Beta on campus and are looking for- ward ·to their participation in campus life.. · · According to the advisor for Pahnellenic, Joanne Tobiessen, Gamma Phi Beta is ''an ex- cellent sorority.\ As she said, \We're pleased to have Gamma Phi Beta on campus and are looking forward to their par- ticipation on campus life~\ Ms. Tobiessen went on to add that \Panhellenic is eager . to provide them (Gamma Phi Beta) support in the Union campus.\ other consultants working for Gamma Phi Beta's colonization are Brooke Bailey, Sheila Mewell, Angie Schaber and Linda Tompson. The Director of Extension is Karen Kline and the Collegiate Vice-President is Randy Guerra. AAC Proposal ••• Continued from page 1 preregistration materials are distributed and course card$ are available. It would give students more time to consult with their advisors. \I hope that stude~ts and professors will be able to come up with some constructive ways .. J. Tobiessen the United States. The sorority's colors are brown and mode. The Gamma Phi Beta flower is the pink carnation, its symbol the cresent moon as well as balloons'. Gamma Phi . Beta's National Philanthropy is CAMP SECHELT, a surnrtler camp for special girls,. age 8•12, in British Columbia. Some of the many events planned for Ganuna Phi Beta in the coming year are a formal Initiation Banquet to which parents and· alwnnae will be invited in the spring and a party with Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Th~ta on January 25. This Friday night~ there will be an 'after-pledging!. party- with Sigma Chi. · . ~·~· ,. to improve the advising system.\ The proposal. which suggests manQ.atory advisors' signatures will be submitted to the faculty whose responses will be due by the end of January. .-!· •·'- ... .~. • ,. • ... . ll ,.... \\' Chester Arthur is preparing himself for a cold Schenectady winter. Grea~ ·p. r~ .~ B~ Manys nation's executive the media public. Tt often Cl Science P directs ar designed and mem ~adycomr . foreign P dominatE attention The pecisions world's o partisan o the Forei1 and now members topics set are chos Policy A staff whi• Great D provides· of the i: :· Internati will seled discussior on WednE the lower beginning lissues o directly include Geneva 1 Terrorisn ,;Response . f U.S.: Fri1 · Recent numerom l Americar 1 ; acts rna ~~ ticularly 1 t Klunk. I ! ; hijackinl , ; terrorists ! '. Americar few mon1 :l Hitite tE i TWA jet I hostage.~ I 1 d. kill· .,;·A, .. an e Pf· Robert · :·· recently ·I Rome an · i which l 1 injured, ,L~, ,dead. T organizat motives their act: can be d tacks? V mediapll ' 'I ' '. N4 N4 w si or or Ol ~ \' ., ~ ... J

CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 Great Decisions • • . · .. Program Addresses Policy the U.S. take in retaliation? fQreign policy involves\ and in These questions reflect the creating a \more realistic sense central concerns of the Great as to what can be achieved.\ By LISA FOLEY .Staff · Many sources .compose our D e c i s i o n s n a t i o n-cr l The Great Decisions program nation's foreign . policy: The organization. provides an opportunity to executive branch, the Congress, The Reagan Administration's freely discuss these topics and the media, the lobbyists and the decision to pursue research in the questions of those Who at- public. The resulting .picture is \Star Wars'' is based on a tend the meetings. A supporter often confusing. Political policy of mutual deterrence. of the Great Decisions Science professor Brian Klunk The U.S. policy attempts to organization, Secretary of directs an eight-week program· deter adversaries by convincing State, George P. Shultz said at designed to acquaint ·studE;)nts potential aggressors of the its 3oth anniversary celebration and members of the Schenec- nation's first and second strike two years ago, \Nothing is ~ady community with important capability. The challenging more essential to a vibrant, . foreign policy issues that will country will believe, according healthy democracy than the dominate the government's to this strategy:, that the ex- free exchange of ideas and a attention in the next year. tensive destruction caused to its well informed, involved !) . ( \ Professor Brian.!< lunk directs Grea.t Decisions P.rogram. ~ > 10 0 > .Q 0 ... 0 .c: a. The program, Great own .country makes a nuclear citizenry.\ -~~~t:.~n~id:::~~~:~~ir,y~~~: ::!~:b;:~~i:.~~~~p:~~~:J T·.h·r·ee s· t.ud·ents .-Assa·u•lted partisan organization, known as destructiOn (MAD) puts the . . the Foreign Policy Association, public at_risk. Great Decisions and now boasts of 250,000 asks, \Is it moral to threaten members nationwide. The eight the unacceptable m order to topics scheduled for discussion prevent its occurrence\? The are chosen by the Foreign discussion will include the Policy Associations editorial ·Administration's current policy staff which also produces the and future options. Great Decisions book that In the discussion, \Israel and provides.brief articles on ~ach the U.S,: Friendship and of the Issues. Also, Vmcm's Discord\ the Great Decisions' International Relations Club editors examine the in- will select members to lead the ternational relationship bet- discussions which will be -held - ween Israel and the United on Wednesdays at 7:30p.m. m States. \Since Israel's birth in the lower lounge of Hale House ' 1948, .the two countries have beginning on January 15. The maintained a dose political, lissues on the agenda that economic and military directly concern the public relationship,\ says Great include \Star Wars: The Decisions. The article con- Geneva Talks,\ \International finues, \Since 1913, Israel has Terrorism: In Search of a . looked to the U.S. for economic ,,Response,\ and \Israel and the and military assistance. Israel . f. U.S.: Friendship and Discord.\ received a $2.6 billion grant in · Recent concern about the fiscal year 1985, and over $4 1 numerous incidents including billion in aid in fiscal year 1986. l American victims in terrorists' Although many Americans '! ~ acts makes this issue par- believe that supporting Israel is .l ticularly urgent for Professor in the best interest of the U.S., ; t Klunk. In the Achilli Lauro others question the level of ! j hijacking, the Palestinian support and its effect on other , : terrorists killed a 69 year-old U.S. allies in the region- ! ~ American Leon Klinghoffer. A especially- at a time when tl)e · few months earlier, Lebanese U.S. is facing large deficits of By STAFF On Sunday night at ap- proximately 8:10p.m., a female student was assaulted betwe.en North College and Richmond House~ The student was on her way home from the library when the assailant approached her from behind, jumped her, and knocked her down. Although he put his hand over her mouth, she was able to scream. With this, he fled, and she managed to escape with only a few bruises. - The attacker is described as a white male,. 6'1\ tall, 175 pounds. He is· approximately twenty years old and has dark blonde hair. During the attack, he wore a tan hat which he pulled down to cover his face, a green army-type field jacket, and black shoes. Apparently, the attacker followed the student from the library. She first noticed him walking from the Nott Memorial towards the P&Ychology building. She drd not think much of it until he startedto gain on her. He finally caught up with her by the stairs in front of North tbat led down to Richmond, a well-lit area. A similar incident occurred on Sunday morning at ap- proJtimately 3:30 a.m. Two female students were walking down the path of the Science and Engineering building (near the library) when a man who fits the above description ap- proached them. The man placed both hands on one woman's posterior. The woman told him to take his hands off of her, he did and continued away from them. The man did not follow. In this case, no threat was made, and the incident was reported to security. These incidents serve to remind Union students that they must be careful when walking on or around campus at night. Says Dean of Students Joseph Non-credit options . . .. Mammola, \There is no such thing as a crime-free campus .. If I had a daughter, I would not want her to walk anywhere alone at night. . . No place is safe for a woman alohe at night.'' Security has offered some tips for students to follow to protect themselves at night: 1) Use only direct routes to and from residence halls and academic buildings-do not use short cuts; 2) Walk in well-lit areas; 3) Be alert; 4) Always walk with a companion. Should you feel that an escort is necessary, do not hesitate to call security at X6911 or X6178. In addition, if you see the man described in this article, be sure to call security immediately. Also, if you witness any type of harrassment or criminal behavior, report it right away. If everyone cooperates and takes the proper precautions, we can all have a safe winter. il !:1J~~~=~~Eki ~~\!~~~!E:~ -- · · New Courses Offered . 4-;~., .. and killed a U.S. navy man, will questton whether or not the . . rf· Robert D. Strethorn ... More U.S. should -attempt to use its For aults interested in ex- History is another discipline In addition to offering re~ar : · recently, the December 27 economic leverage with Israel pan ding their cultural in which new courses are courses,. the Lifelong Le~mg · 1 Rome and Vienna massacre in to _i~fluence the . country's knowledge or in honing their available, most ?f which foe~ Progr~m has arran~ed vartous · i which Union students were pohctes and consider other business and professional skills on the early hiStory of this educational excursiOns. Tours 1 injured, left fifteen travelers inter~sts in.the Middle East that Union js offering a variety 0 £ region. Thes~ courses include o~ Capital Region and N~w York ,L~, ,dead. The Great Decisions conflict wtth our support of non-credit courses through its forest . Diplomats: An City Museum~ are. avru.lable to · organization will question the Isreal.. winter-spring Lifelong Lear- Exploration of Iroquois Indian art lovers, whiletnps to natural motives of the terrorists. Are . Pr?fe~sor Klunk en- ning Program. History and Culture; Early ~andmark~ beckon to those their acts ever justified? What thus1astlcally supports the The program is administered Schenectady: Inftuences of the mterested m ecology. can be done to stop these at- ppb~c:s interest ~n these iss0:es. by the Office of Graduate and Founding Nation~; American . J;ifelong ~earning pa~- tacks? What role should the He IS mterested m \developmg Continuing Studies, which Furniture: Stylistic '('rends t1c1p~ts rece~ve no academic media play? What action should an awareness about what publishes . a non-credit from the 17th through th~ ~9th credit, but m . some .ca~es .----------------------...., catalogue. listing courses Centuries; . and M_arihme student~.can ac9urre Co~tmwng ' ~ I SEE THE BIG PICTURE ranging from Into to Micro- America, which exammes the Edu~atlon Umts, whl~ .. are Computers-BASIC- to . :ISb.UIIic impact of maritime develop- sigmfied by a . cerhf1cate i I I . I . , I ' i ~· \' ., ... J Anyone Interested in The National Model United Nations o.r the Trip to Washington, D.C. should sign up at the next meeting or contact Monique at 6475 or Tod at 6190. Don't be left out! RELATIONS CLUB Art.· ments on . America's past., pre~ented upon course com- This edition of Union's non~ present, and future. plehon. credit listings has been reVised Although some of_. these to reflect new areas of com- Additional classes are also classes are offered durmg the munity interest that are shared being offered in cultural areas. day! may are scheduled after by a number of outstanding Several new jazz and classical busm.ess hours t? accommo~te Union fa~ulty members, who, music courses are available, working professtonals .. The frr~t along with outsid~ instructors, and Recycle Your Language: of these classes will be~ will be teaching the courses. IntermedlateModernLanguage February 3. .Prospec~1ve New classes being introduced study offers a unique twist in students may register anytune throughout the winter ans language instruction. This up to three ~ays ~fore a class spring include a series of series of courses caters to starts. Registration fees v~ry courses in New Technologies. former French; German, for eac~ class. For more m- Among these classes are Spanish, or Italian students format10n, contact . ~he Passive Solar Design, beyond the introductory leve, Gra?uate . and Contmumg Biotechnology, 'lbe Technology but needing a refresher period Studies offt~e at (518) 37o.6288 of Modern Nuclear Warfare, before moving on to advanced or at 1 Umon Ave., Schenec- Spa~e Technology, and instruction. · tady, N.Y. 12308. Technology and Society Histroically Considered. A Small Business Management series designed to· prepare an individual to open a new, successful business is also baing offered for the first time and includes classes such as COmputers in a Small Business, Planning to Begin a Bllsiness, Basic Aecotmting, and Funa damentals in Sales and Marketing. Several more new classes such as '11Ie C Programming · Language-An IntroducUon, Introduction to UNIX, and Regulation and PubUc PoHcy Toward Business are also of interest to business and professional people .

Page4 CONCORDIENS.JS, JanuaryJ6, 1986 Budget Bill Could Mean Less Aid For Students? .... Cll .0 :::l .... ~ Cll > 10 0 >- .0 0 +- 0 .s:::: 0. .!l Ann Lowry encourages students to become hosts for prospective freshmen. . Hosts Needed By CHRISTINE HONG Staff The Student Host Program, established by the Union Admissions Office in order to give interested admission candidates an enjoyable ex- perience at Union is en- thusiastically looking for students in terested in being overnight hosts. Volunteers are asked to host high school juniors and seniors overnight in their dorm rooms and to try to give the students a positive outlook of Union campus life, according to Ann Lowery of the Admissions Office. This would include taking students to classes, meals, and possible campus sponsored events. Ms. Lowery stressed that volunteers do not have to be Gatesmen. She invites all students interested to contact her at the Admissions Office in I Becker Hall. While she already has a large number of volun- teers who expressed interest in fall term, she always could use more. In April, after the ac- ceptance letters are sent out, many of the accepted students come to see the College. While there are no material incentives to participate in the program, Ms. Lowery feels that the personal reward received from giving a positive outlook of Union stands by. itslef. The student coordinators are Jennifer Scully '84; Tricia Schuster '85; and Jeff Ostler '86. Upcoming Events JANUARY 16-Career Development Programs Mock Intenriews (open to all students) CDC 1-5 p.m. Internships HU119 4:30p.m, Fox Lge. 7 p.m. Recruiting: closed sign-ups for weeks A & B CDC 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 17-Boston Recruiting Day 17-19-Film: A View To AKillSS016 7:30,10 p.m. 18--IFC Presents David Westol- Hazing On Trial, OCDR.l p.m. Hockey: Union vs. N. Adams, Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m. 19-Reception for Bishop Hubbard, Old Chapel DR, 8:30 p.m. 20-Career Development Programs Mock Interviews, CDC, 1.-5 p.m. N.Y.C. Recruiting Day Orientation Meeting (location to be an- nounced) 4 p.m. Getting Hired: Orientation Meeting, HUllS, 4:30, 7 p.m. Recruiting: open sign-ups for weeks A & B, CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. IFC Discussion Series on Placing ·Women In The Liberal Arts, JIHLL, 12:30 p.m. Sex, Intimacy & Relationships Discussion Series with Donn Byrne, HHDR,7p.m. 21-Film: Time Bandits, SS016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. (CPS) - Congress' new budget-balancing bill, passed in December, could mean student aid soon could be cut by as much as 60 percent, some college lobbyists here warn. The first round of cuts is due March 1. Various sources estimate the first round could mean decreases of anywhere from two to 40 to 60 percent in all student aid programs. The new l~w! usually called the Gramm-Rudman. law after senators Philip Gramm (R- Tex) and Warren Rudman (R- NH), who co-sponsored it, forces the federal government to balance its budget by 1991. But in doing so, Congress is not aliowed to cut spending for Social Security, some welfare programs, many defense programs or to pay off the federal debt. So, unless the government tries to help baHmce the budget by raising some taxes, education programs will be tempting fiscal targets, lob- byists say. Just how deep the first round of cuts will be is open to d~bate. By calculating current Gramm-Rudman targets and the escalating deficit, Susan Frost of the Committee for Education Fmtding figures the U.S Dept. of_ Education will have to shave all its · college program funding by 4.6 percent in March and another 30 percent in October. Educators are reluctant to specify just how many students would be forced out Qf school by the cuts, or to estimate how much schools would have to raise tuition to compensate for them. They do, however, think the cuts will hurt badly. \Consequences of Gramm- ~udman's possible 40 to 60 percent cuts in higher education . (by next fall) will be absolutely disastrous to millions of current and future students,\ obse~;ves Kathy Ozer, legislative director of the U.S. Student Association (USSA). The same pressure to reduce spending could also force Congress to reduce college~ program funding in the up- coming Higher Education Act of 1985, which sets spending.levels through 1990, addS Pat Smith, legislative analyst for the American Council on· E'ducation (ACE).. Under the new law, Ozer estimates Congress will have to trim about $11.7 billion from the 1986 fiscal year budget by March. If it doesn't, President Reagan would \sequester\ funds, deciding by himself wbich programs not to fund in order to save money. Based on what he's dane before, the president would seem likely to cut education programs to do it. In each year since 1980, President Reagan has proposed cutting federal student aid programs by as much as 50 percent. Congress historically has rejected those cuts choosing instead to freeze most programsat or near their l981- 82levels for the last tpree years. The federal government will spend about$8 billion on student aid programs this year~about the same as in fiscal1985 before a supplemental appropriation bill fUnding Guaranteed Student Loans passed . After March, the Gramm- RUdman law then mandates the government to find ways to keep reducing the federal deficit by $36 billion a year through the rest of this decade. One way to reduce the deficit, of course, is to raise taxes. \More and more people are talking about a tax increase. It will be the only way,\ reports Tom Gleason, a spokesman for Sen. Gary Hart (D-Co). \I don't think there is a proclivity toward cuts,'' agrees BobSnee, an aide to Sen. Ernest Hollings (D.SC). \Most people think drastic -reductions\ without accompanying tax hikes \will be dead on arrival\ in Congress. ' Gleason thinks some con- servative senators will endorse tax hikes if they help spare the defense budget from cuts, .) though he doesn't expect them ·r· to publicly S,llpport the hikes until after next fall's elections. I i I I i . Musewn-College Concert: Esterhazy Baryton Trio, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Freslunan Dinner, HHDR, 5:30p.m. AU-student Dance with \The Phantoms\ Old Chapel, 10 p.m.-1 a.m. Students anti workers alike experience changes in the Skellar. From left fo right are-Jake cun- ningham1 '8'1; Allison Abrams,'87, and Michelle Tobin, '88. (Tickets-$2.00/person, on sale at the ticket booth-first floor Old Chapel) Career Development Programs Orientation to the CDC, CDC, 12: 30 p.m. N.Y.C. Recruiting Day Orientation Meeting (location to be an- nounced) 7 p.m. Mock Interviews, CDC, 1.-5 p.m. Resume Preparation, HU113, 4:30p.m. Biology Semillar Series: \Applications of Electron Microscopy in Heart Research\ with Leona Cohen-Gould, M.S. (a graduate of Union College), SS117, 4:30p.m., Refreshments and Conversation at 4 p.m. 22-Minerva Hour with John Tepaske, SS016, 11:30 a.m. Great Discussion Series on Israel and U.S., HHLL, 7:30 p.m. Hockey: Union vs. Middlebury, Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m. -- Celebrate Black History Month -In Memoriam- »r. Clare W. GJaves, · professor of psychology emeritus and originator of the Level Theory of Personality, died Jan. 3 at his home in Rexford, N.Y. He was 71. Bo1n in New Richmond, Ind., Proj.Graves graduated/rom Union in 1940 and received his ma;ter's degree and a Ph.D in psychology from Western Resel've University in C/evelflnd. He taught at Western Reserve before joining the Union faculty in 1948. A specialist in the theory of personality and its application to itJdustrial and medical problems, Prof. Graves l1eld that human behavior can he broken down into seven patterns, or levels of existence. His theory suggested that every person falls somewhere between level one, a huma11 vegetable, and level seven, the highest form. First published in the Harvard Business Review in 1966, the theory attracted wide attention and Prof. Graves became the subject ofnumerous magazine and newspaper articles. Prof. Graves, who retired in 1978, was a clinical psychologist and consultant for various government agencies and had many articles published in professionaf and general interest magazines. He was a member of Sigma Xi, the American Psychological Association, and the American Association of University Professors. Survivors include his wife, Marian,. a son, Robert; of Niskayuna, N. Y.; a daughter, Susau Friday, of Gansevoort, N.Y.; a brother, Clyde, of Albany, N.Y.; and three grand- diildr.'n ---····~- ···--·- --·~-------------------------------' I·Gave Selective Service My Autograph! Selective Service just wants your name, that's all. So take five minutes, go to the Post Office and fill out the card. I did ... and look what happened to me. If you're turning 18, register with Selective Service. It's quick. It's easy. And it's the law. ~~~ i~:~;·_-~- ~ .~ ~: ~=·:-:1 !·l·h· ~ .. ,,.Jfl, .. . . ·::· ...... ~ . ,' • • ·r~··· ~ I ~:~: ~t ~:~: ·. ~ .... . . ~ l ~· :. ! ~.- -- . ' .. - .... J

posed aid 50 cuts, most 1981- will ~ efore ion the to year are It ports for a tax con- .) hem ·r· I i I .:· • 1: ' i 1 '< .f ,, I CONCORI)IENSIS, January 16,1986 What's Up Around Campus Intimate Relationships On Monday, January 20, Dr. Donn Byrne will speak at Union on ''Ip.itiating and Maintaining Intimate Relationships.\ Dr. Byrne, chairman of the Department of Psychology at SUNY Albany is the author of many books and articles on social interaction, intimacy, · ~nd fritmdship. Dr. Byrne's presentation will focus on two parts involved in intimacy. First Dr. Byrne will address the process of initiating intimacy.; specifically, the style GTE. Davenport graduated from Union in 1937 with a bachelor of science degree in physics. He later received his master .of science and doctoral degrees in the same field from the University of Pittsburgh. - He bacame a trustee in 196.8 and was elected as an officer ·of the Board of Trustees in 1982. He has also been a member of the National Academy of Ehgineerinf!, an honorary and advisory body to the federal government, and a Fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electro~ics Engineers, the world's largest engineering society. of the initiatives and how it affects the subsequent relationship. For example, whether the relationship starts slowly or fast, . is rornatic or - fiendly, is sexual or nonsexual; Equipment Donated Union College has received a donation of computer equip- ment and software from AT&T as part of the company's University Computer Donation Program, it was announced recently by Union President John S. Morris. all influence. the quality and basis of the relationspip. Secondly, Dr. Byrne will deal with the maintenance of an intimate . relationship. The requisites for the maintenance of th~ relationship will be ex- plored from the context of the style of initiation. The program will be at 7:00 p.m. in Hale House. Davenp()rt, Life Trustee Lee L. Davenport, The equipment, from AT&'r's 3B family of computers, will be used by the Computer Science Department for advanced research by students in its new computer laboratory. graduate.\ AT&T Division Sales Manager Tom Bettcher com~ mented, ''We're co:rmnitted to furthering computer research on the nation's college cam- puses. With decreasing governm.ent participation in the funding of research and education in universities, more and more responsibility for the role has fallen upon private business. We've chosen to step up to this important task.\ The equipment donated to Union inCludes to 3B2 super- microcomputers and four 4425 terminals. In addition, AT&T will install the equipment and P.rovide one year of main- tenance and support. Union was chosen to receive the equipment from AT&T because of its developmental efforts in the computer science and engineering fields, its commitment to campus of the future technology, and its willingness to participate through the involvement of faculty, students and the ad- ministration. · United Way Fund Drive The annual United Way fund raising drive at Union has raised a record contribution total. A total of $17,224.26 was colle<;ted from the college's faculty and st~ff, beating the 1982 record of $15,924. Co-chairs of the drive were Professor Ted Schwarz for ·the faculty and Patricia Rush for non-faculty members. Through their efforts; Union contributed to the United Way Education Division's effort, which raised 109 percent of its goal for the 1985 fund year. German Exchange Program Two students will be selected to spend the 1986-87 academic .. JKt ~PEC.T oF A FIFTY PER CE~T REJ)lelioN ·~ ~UC.U.lR W~~~ COULD 6ECPME REALITY •.• .1,~1 TALKS PageS year studying at a German university with a scholarship provided by the Federation of German-American Clubs in the Federal Republic of Germany. Only students who will be juniors next year are eligible. Other basic requirements in- clude a strong academic record and a good working knowledge of the German language. See Professor Anton Warde in Modern Languages for further information and application materials. The deadline for completed applications is Monday, Jan. 27. ·11!1 TALKS· College Press Service ~-~ Schenectady native who now resides in Greenwich, Conu necticut, has been elected a life trustee of Union College. Davenport, currently a con• sultant to government ana industry, is retired vice president and chief scientist of \We are pleased that AT&T could give us this particular equipment,\ Morris said. \Its specifications match well those of other equipment to be used in the study of computer science, particularly in artificial inm teHigence research, by our juniors and seniors. Access to this kind or resource may give them a real edge in knowledge and skills by the time they \Union College did just a wonderful job,\ said Sal Cristello, campaign and marketing director of United Way of Schenectady County. · \We think it was a terrific ef- fort.\ WELCOME BACK! PAP·A CICCO'S P'IZZA WE DELIVER FREE 374-4332 COMPARE AND SA VEl! Round 16\ or 8 cut Pizza (Incl. Tax.) Each Topping PAPA CICCO'S $5.06 $1.00 DO~MI NO'S $6.75 $1.25 CAPPELLO,S .$6.12- $1.07 THE STATION .$6.40 $1.00 B UY~THE BEST PIZZA AT THE BEST PRICE! ''Not Just Your Average Pizza Place''· Prices are for a Pizza Delivered to Union College! COLLECT OUR COUPONS AND SAVE THEM FOR FREE PIZZA OR BEER FREE 32 OZ. SO·DAS EVERY SUNDAY with purchase of $5.00 or more

Page6 CONCORDIENSIS, January 16,1986 IFCIPANHELLENIC Presents Atto.rney David Westol ' 1 Hazing. O.n T'rial'' Starting Saturday, January 25, 1986, our old Dutchmen night shall be starting as Candl.elight Dinner in Hale House. Reservations taken at the H.ale H·ouse, Mon.-Thurs. 5- 7 p.m. Mr. Westol, a prosecuting attorney from Michigan and a national office of Theta Chi~ is perhaps the most dynamic s.pea~er you will ever hear on any topic. You don't have to be a ''Greek\ to learn and enioy this outstanding presentation~ TREAT YOUR FRIEND FREE AT HALE HOUSE Saturday, Ja.nu·a;ry 18, 1986 12:45 p.m.-: O·ld Chapel January 13th- January 17th 5 p .. m. to 7 p.m. only Buy any e11tree, sandwich, dessert or any tiling from our menu get identical item FREE This meeting is mandatory for all Greek officers and prospective pledges. WRUC TRIVIA IS COMING! february 1 tJ, 23, and March 1. Start Organizing Your Teams!! CAMPUS ADVEimSING REP Be responsible for pla.dng advertising materials on your campus blllletill boards. Work on exciting marketing Jlrogt'3111S for clients such as American E::qll'e$5, AT & T, Sony and Sierra Club. Choose )'Olll' own hours. Good experience md great. IOO!ley! For more infol'lllalioll call, 1·800·426-5537 9-5 pm. (VVest~t time) Representative Frogram American Passage 500 Third Ave \Vest Seattle, WA 9811~ College students with valid ID's are eligible for Okerno's Special College Discount at the Okerno Mountain Lodge. Con- dominiums surrounding the Base Area feature full kitchens, fireplaces, telephones and cable color Tv. Ski-in, ski-out accomodations conveniently located to all mountain facilities. Okemo Mountain Half-price discount on lift tickets mid-week lesser discounts weekends and Holiday periods 12/25/85--1/1/86, 2/15- 2/21/85.. Okemo has: • 58 trails and slopes • Has the fourth highest vertical drop in Vermont . • Has eight major lifts including a new 4-passenger chairlift. Half-price skiing is • Covers over · 60% of its ·skiable twice ·the fun. terrain with snowmaking. . . . . . . • Receives an annual snowfall of over Write or call for more mfotmahon: 12 feet. Lodging Service , . . 802-228-5571 • Is the only Eastern ski resort with .Sn~w Reports . : . . 802-228-5222 a major town at its base. General Information 802-22'8-4041 • Has a 41Jz mile novice trail from the summit. • Has two of the steepest gladed areas in the Northeast. RFD 1 Box CA, Ludlow,. Vermont 05149 I . . . ' ' i . .. ' ..

i i ' ' i • ',' \' ' CONCORDIENSIS, January 16,1986 Page7 ·FEATURES The play may be gone, but the giant lobster remains. This leftover from last term's The cowboy's M~uth is on display in the Arts Building. In a Sensory- Deprivation Tank e ·• o The Perfect Relaxation By MICKEY BRADLEY Features Editor If you've ever tried meditation, yoga, or any similar type of intense- relaxation state designed to ease t.he mind' and restore the senses, you may have noticed one principle fault with them- all require strong mind control an(! deep concentration. Sudden sounds, visual images, or any· other annoying sensory stimuli can interrupt your train of thought and undermine the relaxation process. The perfect form of relaxation would have to be one that eliminates these distractions, and allows the · rnilld to wander uninhibited and free. And the best way to get tnat ultimate experience is in a sensory deprivation tank. smell anything, or even to feel anything, including their own bodies. In other words, total sensory deprivation in a womb- like atmosphere\ That may sound like the worst nightmare-come-true you could imagine; but it is actually quite comfortable. In this tanquil, ultra-relaxed state, the mind is free to wander without the strain of sensory stimuli, or even the effect of gravity (which normally accounts for 90 percent of the stress on your brairl). The intended effect is that after an hour of feeling abs()llltely nothing, you emerge from the tank and feel everything anew. In fact, some floaters have reported great spurts . of new energy, sometimes lasting up to three weeks after just one one-hour visit.· ' whales. communicating. If all this sounds like the thing for you and you'd like to try floating · yourself, you should contact Hi-Tech Health & Fitness, on Rt. 9 in Clifton Park. They have the only tank I've been able to find in this area, and their procedure is simple- when you arrive, they give you some literature about tlle system and you sign a paper stating that you understand the experience you are about to have. They ask you to go to the bathroom and take a full shower before entering the tank; to keep it as clean as possible. They offer you earplugs, a pillow, and salve to cover open cuts that may be irritated by the salf water (all of these are optional). After that, it's up to you. You let yourself in and out of the tank and can, from inside it, control the light, music, videotape (if you want one), and Continued on page 10 Welcome Back By MARY REm MANNING Contributor It's great to be back at Union after that long, boring break, isn't it? (Is anyone saying \Yes\?) Being a freshman I found the first term to be a pretty dramatic transition, and I knew six weeks at home would make it tough to come back. To lessen the shock I would ex• perience in January, I requested that my mother make a few changes around the house before I got home. 1) Mom rented out half my room to a total stranger who loved to stay up and type until four a.m. 2) My mother went out of her way to find wallpaper that looks like authentic cement blocks, (to eliminate the cozy look my room used to have! ! ) . 3) Every morning mom v; ~ke me up at 8:30a.m., made me sit in a hard chair and lectured for fifty minutes on cyclic and noncyclic photophosphoryla- tion, as well as the counter- current exchange method of getting oxygen. 4) To give our kitchen that special \West touch,\ Mom hired the lady down the road to sit at the door to the kitchen and punch our mealcards. She even went out and bought plastic tra:ys and made the family stand .in line and fight for our food. Sometimes she'd ask the neighbors over to make things more confusing, rand thus, more like dinner time at West!). 5) In addition, Mom put up signs in the bathroom that said \Yell Flushing!!\ and arranged for the plumber to fix the pipes so the shower wou1d get boiling hot if someone flushed. 6) Occasimally, Mom sat at the front door after 8:30 p.m. and Wt'Uld telephone upstairs to see if my friends could come up. 7) One morning she hired ·a group of guys to burst into my room, explain they were pledges, and ask me to sign my name on a picture of Miss December. 8) A couple of ni_ghts when I tried to go to sleep early, my mother had a group of my friends sit outside my door and eat pizza and drjnk beer, not to mention dance to the small band that was out there. 9) Whenever I did my laun- dry, Morn made me run up and down the stairs with the laundry basket, to achieve that third floor-to-basement effect that I'm used to. She even charged me quarters!!! 10) I was really shocked when Mom went as far as to shave my little brother's head, so I wouldn't miss Union's fresh- man Canadians. Thanks, Mom! ! 1 Coming back was easier than ;: thought-! feel like I never left. (Note: This reporter is happy to report that her brothers are finally getting their hair back, and they are also developing a real interest in hockey.) Get ]nvolved Wriie for rFeatures E!(fe~rnsilllB'!l 6155 Sensory ·deprivation ta·nks tSDTs) were developed in the silcties, but they are still a relatively new. phenomenon to most people. Their main pur- pose· is to provide an en- vironment completely void of any sensory stimuli. The tank itself looks like a giant hollow· egg, whose bottom is filled with 10-11 inches of . water so saturated with hundreds of pounds of epsom slats that a body can float effortlessly on the surface (without kicking or m()ving), as though it were a Since their inception, SDTs have been scientific breeding gronnds. In the sixties and seventies, John Lily and Timothy Leary both· conducted many experiments with them. usua]y by giving floaters major hallacinagenics and watching them freak out in the tank. Two of their findings are used in commercial tanks today: one, this i~ generally not a good idea, and most places with SDTs require floaters to sign papers statirlg they are not under the influence of drugs or alcohol; and tw.o, the hwnan mind in this sublime condition is very receptive to whatever stimuli is made available to it. In other Behind Closed Doors mattress. , Once inside the vessel, nor- . mal reactions to everyday perceptions quickly pass. The water is heated to the tem- perature of your skin-94.3 degrees-so that after a few minutes, the boundary between vour skin and the water becomes imperceptible. Eventually, you can't feel the parts of your body, or even whether or not they are tollching the sides of the tank or each. other. With the hatch closed, the vessel pecomes light and sound proof. And since the water is kept warm and clean, there's nothing to smell. Hence ''floaters\ (as tank users are often called) are unable to hear anything, to see anything, to · words. SDTs are the perfect place to learn and so far, the principle use of this has been with sports. Many health clubs who have tanks offer videotapes that can be viewed in the vesseL depictillg different sportsmen in action. Watching these tapes, the llrain takes in every detail and the floater actually becomes beter at the sport himself. Similarly, self- hypnosis audio tapes at·e avail<lble (e.g. to help stop smoking, etc.) and so are music \'tapes with everything from rock to the sound dolphins and Moffett's Liquors Invites you to fight off the cold with our many varieties of SCHNAPPS Special sale on WHITE WINE VANVRANKEN AVE. (next to Norstar Bank) .Go Dutch1nen! By STEVE ROTHSCHILD Contributor The dorm room doors are closed, the beer taps have run empty, and now the cold realities of winter begin to seep into the Union blood stream. No, Union has not decided to cl(lse, but to some it might as well. For with the new year came a new alcohol policy: a policy which will inevitably alter Union's social life. As of December 1, 1985, the drinking age in New York State became 21 and so the college had to enact a new alcohol policy. All Union students received a letter from the Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, over the break discussing:what the new policy entails. Basically, the policy is the following: The Pub and the S1tellar will no longer sell alcohol. AII ... private events of more than 20 students where alcohol is being served must be invitational with a ma:xiinurn of 50 guests or one invited guest per organization membet·, whichever is greater. Campus-wide reaction to this policy by most Union students is one of indignation as well E.S curiosity. Many are waiting to see if the Union Security is going to r-eplace Clint eastwood as \The Enforcer.\ According to Dean .of Students Joseph Mammola, Union College seeks to educate students to be responsible adults, which in- cludes the opportunity to consume alcohol. Unfor- tunately, the drinking age is 21, and the liabilities of serving alcohol are imm.ense. Insurance premiwns have recently gone through the ceiling. Thus, Union's administrators have taken the stance that if a student or group of students call attention to themselves by !early abusing the alcohol policy, then disciplinary action will be taken. \Security is not going to enter a party and start counting . heads,\ explained Dean Mammola. \It is the responsibility of the campus to act responsibly.\ • Students in the Residence Haus will find that consumption of alcoholic beverages will not be permitted in lounges <>! hallways. Whatever students do in their own room is their business, aa long as they do m1t call attention to themselves by being noisy and irresponsible. Resident Advisors are not going to police tte dorms. Presently, no major problems have been observed, but the term is stiil young. Union College's :Eai\1 problem is ~ot the change m the drinking age, but rah~!r 1.he culmination of manv umur~een events such b.s thP. dosmg of Carnegie Hall and Alumni Gym, simultaneously w1th the in- creased drinking age. The ef- fects of no campus center and no place to alleviate frustration. caused fraternity and sorority parties and the Skeller to become Union's primary social arenas. With the new alcohol policy the campus is presently left with a social scene on campus, which exists behind closed doors in small groups. Most Union students feel as if there is no place to meet people and no place to go with friends. As John Cummings, a sophomore at Union, explained \alienation is inevitable.\ This might seem to be an absurd comment, but students are being alienated from one another. Fraternity and sorority members are being alienated from each other and the rest of the campus. Chris Siler, Student Forum presidem, is fearful that students will Jrive off campus in order ·~o have a social li.fe with alt•);,j_. 1 ·'The SQcial fabric of Unior: :,:,~ been torn,\ explained D<.:\'d Wood, Dean of Residence i .. ; ' . Thus. we as a conunumtY n~~;,.' Creat o ·~ '1\W ._.,ci·~i f·+~: .. , ..... . '1,.. a : '!:\ -· , .. \'' • (.i. ~ • ~ .... ~ '~' , stronger than !:1e <:1l' . ,;,,:·,_ There are man•. :;··c ·!;t':<h which fact> f . f;I>• , , :n- rnllilitv. !~ ~~ '>!l .1 · :.n••r;t\ group· \l'hll':, .. ~ u_p:•;_;. lllf une rcasor: .T ,.,:.· .: · · · :f.tt ,;,e e1tlrt campt .· '< ;.:.. .1s happj wttl· :be ·r:, : •: 1, '-' l.t Wf.: all :nu~ wor ~; ,· : v\nt:r ~o create a nev soci~l .~._ene. t'nion :1as lacke{ l'f~'JtiHty and :nspiration f,n n J<l!IY } tOars. :-.Jow is the tm.e to t(et involved! Don't sit ;lpathetically behind do ,,,J doors. Go out and partake i 1 ~he upcoming social e'·ents. Remember that the , in ion conmmnity consists not ,m]v •Jf buildings and students, l ut administrators and faculty .1s well. It is yom\ responsibility a.· a member of the Union com- munity to get involved in any way, shape or form. A Social Altematives Com- mittee has been created t(; implement new activities and events. Some upcoming events started by Mrs. Marra are the following: All-Student Dances, Arts Improvisation Series, plays, Cabaret, dinner show with three comedians, and many other events. There is also talk of faculty-student events and a 21 Club. Fur- thermore, the Social Committee is also organizing events for Winter Carnival. Union is going to change, be a part of it.

PageR CQN,CORDlENSIS; ;January 16, 1986 FEATURES .. Winter & Wings WHERE ALL THE TAPS WENT ... @~ By HOWIE PODOLSKY Staff Where did you spend your vacation? Florida, the Carib- bean, California, the slopes of Colorado, Vermont or the Alps? Well, I had the distinct and probably rare privilege of spending my vacation at home , in BufffalQ-that's New York. Buffalo. Where the hell is it remains. Lest we condemn this city to an unflattering distinction, and neglect the other relevant facts about this Great La;k.e port. Ahtletically, Buffalo possesses asolidN.H.L. hockey team, and to put it politely, a football team that is \rebuilding.\ Minor league baseball is popular and there are hopes for a major league franchise soon. Bowling continlles to be a popular spectator sport, and competitive snow shovelling always draws a big crowd. \' 7 B T - - ·- ,cDL : y ou ask? Let me save you the trouble of pulling out the maps or road atlases of the United States. Buffalo is not west of the Mississippi. Nor is it located near the North Pole. It is approximately 275 miles due west of this humble abode we call Schenectady. It is geographically situated on the eastern shore of Lake Erie, boarding our Can dian neighbors to the North. Apart from the fact that Buffalo is New York State's second largest city, it has another dubious honor. What do you think of when you think of Buffalo? Think hard. There you gQ-that white stuff that con- tinues to fall out ofthe sky, quite abundantly .. rt's unfortunate, but Buffalo and snow are often synonyms. Is this really true~ or has Buffalo been given a bad rap for exaggerated weather reports? I'm afraid to conclude, as a resident 7 that this analogy is valid. For, this past December, Buffalo received a record snowfall of70 inches. No, it isn't all on the ground, but at any given time a.!Jout half Culturally, yes, that is tne word I intended to use, Buffalo· has a renowned Philharmonic orchestra, large thespian community, and has served as home for such musical names as Rick James andSpyro-Gyra. So what is it then, aside from snow, that Buffalonians hold with proud distinction, as their contribution to the world? You have all tasted this culinary treat, that serves as not only an appetizer, but a great finger- food with beer (or fruit juice, if you're under 21). It is the modern day chicken wing that Buffalo has exported to the world. Hot, medium, mild or even extra-hot, for those diehard masochists, Buffalo corners the market on this delicacy. As homage to this fact, most wing places, outside · of Buffalo, advertise \Buffalo- style wings.\ Well, they may try to copy the art, but there's nothing like the real thing! Take it from a Buffalonian who is still shovelling! · Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday Is Remembered Still A long Way To Go '-· ... By LEATA R. JACKSON Contributor The following is a paper written in 1984 for a literature course after the class had listened to a recording of one of Dr. King's speeches. It reflects some of the reasons why I feel he was a great motivator, a great speaker, and one of America's heroes. The more the United States SPORTS CENTER making ( ,()()[l f ()fl ONE FREE TRIAL SESSION Let OTR Sports Center Design A personal program to fit you things happen. Call for your appointment todav (518) 393~5032 204 So. Ten Broeck St., Scotia, N.Y. has had international conflicts, the farther we have strayed from trying to keep peace. The richer the United States has become the J1l.Ore it has ignored . the poor. The more people have tried to use peaceful means to achieve their goals, the more violently the United States has reacted. Didn't anyone listen to what Dr. King said? . \Men have had a hard time opposing their government's policies, especially in-times of war ... We have fallen in these times to the same deadly arrogance that has poisoned international polities.\ What Martin Luther King said in the sixties remains true in the eighties. Some politicians have spoken our against the Marines in Lebanon, just as some politicians have spoken out against the Army in Vietnam. Many citizens may privately say that they don't like· our activities in the Mid-East, but they are not using their voices to tell our leaders. These are not times of massive protest.s as they were in the sixties but even then all the people didn't speak out for what they believed. Listening to the re(!ordings of his speeches, I realized that though Dr. King used examples of specific crises, .... the, . issues - were universal; his obser- vations were about the issues and causes· rather than the individual circumstances. dissent.\ Someone should have quoted this, as a foreshadow to the day after we invadEl~ Grenada-and left the press at home. One of the freedoms Dr. - King held most dear and used so: · effectively was the freedom of sp.eech. In Gren.ada, tbe government decided for us . whether or not there was anything to ,speak about. \It is no longer a .choice between non- violence and violence. Today it is a choice between non- violence and non-existence.\ Truly with MX missiles and Trident subs, this is the case. Maybe one of the reasons Martin Luther King was such a great man was that what he said was not only relevant to his times and his people but relevant to all peoples in any time of injustice. That's what I really learned a~ut Dr. King. Everyone everywhere could relate to him and to what he had to say. He championed -the rights of all people. He stood up (and sat down), for what he believed to be right. And when he gained one success, he started working on the next issue because he knew he could not rest, for the work was not finished. It still isn't. Offering you . ' - -' . \ '.~. .... -~ _ ..... ' .,._ '~ .. •7 Stations of Nautilus •Free Weights \A nation that continues to spend more money on military spending than on social uplift is heading toward spiritual death.\ It is still true that if a country has no spirit to motivate it; there will be no ·'\~\..::' · · ·.~.,. ' - progress. ''Dr. Kmg helpeil' put· spirit into action in the si~ies. · Now when \more bombs than bread'' is a reality, there is very little spirit keeping our nation united.. ''Programs for · -the poor, black and white, had a bright spot, until the U.S. got wrapped up in a war.\ Monday, January 20. ·is the first national observance of the bir.thday of the Reverend l)octor Martin Luther King, Jr. Many activities are planned around the nation to celebrate the life of one of America's greatest men. In Washington, D.C., there will be a Congressional tribute in the Capitol followed by the un- v~il!ng of .a .bust of Dr. Kh1g in _the Capito1 Rotunda. Also, there , will be a Conference Against Apartheid with Bishop Tuto and Rep. William Gray in Atlanta. In Albany, there will be a march from. Morning Star Missionary Baptist Church to the Capitol on Mondayl and bells will be rung at noon throughout the state. NBC win. televise a national tribute produced by Stevie Wonder Monda;;· at 9 p.m. •Pro Star Super Hack Sled •Team Programs • RehabH itative ·Exercise Programs •Shape-up & Fitness Programs •Strength & Conditioning Programs •3-12 Month Memberships • Expanding free weights • Jazzercise *Student Specials* ' ' \It will be a dark day in onr nation when the government U!'ieS every means to silence VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 I .. 4

CONCORDIENSJS, JanuarJ' 16, .1986 FEATURES Winter & Wings WHERE ALL THE TAPS WENT ... By HOWIE PODOLSKY Staff Where did you spend your vacation? Florida, the Carib- bean, California, the slopes of Colorado, Vermont or the Alps? Well, I had the distinct and probably rare privilege of spending my vacation at home , in Bufffalo-that's New York. Buffalo. Where the hell is it remains. Lest we condemn this city to an unflattering distinction, and neglect the other relevant facts about this Great Lake port. Ahtletically, Buffalo possesses a solid N.H.L. hockey team, and to put it politely, a footbaH team that is \rebuilding.\ Minor league baseball is popular and there are hopes for a major league franchise soon. Bowling contin'tles to be a popHlar spectator sport, and competitive snow shovelling always draws a big crowd. __ li - - 7 } ou ask? Let me save you the trouble of pulling out the maps or road atlases of the United States. Buffalo is not west of the Mississippi. Nor is it located near the North Pole. It is approximately 275 miles due west of this humble abode we call Schenectady. It is geographically situated on the eastern shore of Lake Erie, boarding our Candian neighbors to the North. Apart from the fact that Buffalo is New York State's second largest city, it has another dubious honor. What do you think of when you think of Buffalo? Think hard. There you go-that white stuff that con- tinues to fall out of the sky, quite abundantly. It's unfortunate, but Buffalo and snow are often synonyms. Is this really true, or has Buffalo been given a bad rap for exaggerated weather reports? I'm afraid to conclude, as a resident, that this analogy is valid. For, this past December, Buffalo received a record snowfall of 70 inches. No, it isn't all on the ground, but at any given time about half Culturally, yes, that is the word I intended to use, Buffalo· has a renowned Philharmonic orchestra, large thespian community, and has served as home for such musical names as Rick James and Spyro-Gyra. So what is it then, aside from snow, that Buffalonians hold with proud distinction, as their contribution to the world? You have all tasted this culinary treat, that serves as not only an appetizer, but a great finger- food with beer (or fruit juice, if you're under 21). It is the modern day chicken wing that Buffalo has exported to the world. Hot, mediwn, mild or even extra-hot, for those diehard masochists, Buffalo corners the market on this delicacy. As homage to this fact, most wing places, outside of Buffalo, advertise \Buffalo- style wings.\ Well, they may try to copy the art, but there's nothing like the real thing! Take it from a Buffalonian who is still shovelling~ Dr. Martin Luther King's Birthday Is Remembered Still A long Way To Go . '• • -- , . ' 't. \4 •• ,1!.' By LEATA R. JACKSON Contributor The following is a paper written in 1984 for a literature course after the class had listened to a recording of one of Dr. King's speeches. It reflects some of the reasons why I feel he was a great motivator, a great speaker, and one of America's heroes. The more the United States '•i _ ., • r ll-'. • ' £ ',\f :,_ J •· 'l I ,f·' SPORTS CENTER making things happen. ONE FREE TRIAL SESSION Let OTR Sports Center Design A persona I program to fit you (518) 393-5032 204 So. Ten Broeck St.. Scotia. N.Y. Offering you •7 Stations of Nautilus •Free Weights •Pro Star Super Hack Sled •Team Programs • Rehabilitative Exercise Programs •Shape-up & Fitness Programs •Strength & Conditioning Programs •3-12 Month Memberships • Expanding free weights • J azzerci se *Student Specials* has had international conflicts, the farther we have strayed from trying to keep peace. The richer the United States has become the more it has ignored the poor. The more people have tried to use peaceful means to achieve their goals, the more violently the United States has reacted. Didn't anyone listen to what Dr. King said?. \Men have had a hard time opposing their government's policies, especially in times of war ... We have fallen in these times to the same deadly arrogance that has poisoned international politics.'' What Martin Luther King said in the sixties remains true in the eighties. Some politicians have spoken our against the Marines in Lebanon, just as some politicians have spoken out against the Army in Vietnam. Many citizens may privately say that they don't like our activities in the Mid-East, but they are not using their voices to tell our leaders. These are not times of massive protests as they were in the sixties but even then all the people didn't speak out for what they believed. Listening to the recordings of his speeches, I realized that though Dr. King used examples of specific crises, the issues were universal; his obser• vations were about the issues and causes rather than the individual circumstances. \A nation that continues to spend more money on military spending than on social uplift is heading toward spiritual death.\ It is still true that if a country has no spirit to motivate it, there will be no progress. Dr. King helped put spirit into action in the sixties. Now when \more bombs than bread\ is a reality, there is very little spirit keeping our nation united.. \Programs for the poor. black and white, had a bright spot, until the U.S. got wrapped up in a war.\ \It will be a dark day in our nation when the government uses every means to silence dissent.\ Someone should have quoted this, as a foreshadow to the day after we invaded Grenada-and left the press at home. One of the freedoms Dr. King held most dear and used so effectively was the freedom of speech. In Grenada, the government decided for us whether or not there was anything to speak about. \It is no longer a choice between non- violence and violence. Today it is a choice between non- violence and non-existence.\ Truly with MX missiles and Trident subs, this is the case. Maybe one of the reasons Martin Luther King was such a great man was that what he said was not only relevant to his times and his people but relevant to all pe()ples in any time of injustice. That's what I really learned about Dr. King. Everyone everywhere could relate to him and to what he had to say. He championed the rights of all people. He stood up (and sat down), for what he believed to be right. And when he gained one success, he started working on the next issue because he knew he could not rest, for the W()rk was not finished. It still isn't. ~onday, January 20 is the first national observance of the birthday of the Reverend Doctor Martin Luther King, Jr. Many activities are planned around the nation to celebrate the life of one of America's greatest men. In Washington, D.C., there will be a Congressional tribute in the Capitol followed by the un- veiling of a bust of Dr. King in the Capitol Rotunda. Also, there will be a Conference Against Apartheid with Bishop Tuto and Rep. William Gray in Atlanta. In Albany, there will be a march from Morning Star Missionary Baptist Church to the Capitol on Monday, and bells will be rung at noon throughout the state. NBC will televise a national tribute produced by Stevie Wonder Monda:, at 9 p.m. VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257 . ·-

.. .. CONCORDIENSIS, .filnuary 16,1986 Page9 ''·'''''''''·' STUDENT PARTICIPANTS . ·NEE.D·E·D • • • for an experiment for a Senior Proiect in Political S,cience Pa.rt.icipants will be asked to comple1e two brief surveys · and to watch· videotapes of the House of Represen- · tatives. Participants will be paid $3 per hour and can participate lor eith~r a single 1 hour P.eripd OR for 1 hour periods on 2 separate days. Th~ study will be conducted within next 2 weeks. ~..:....- - Fo.r m·ore ·information or to volunteer: Con;t~.ct Lauren·at 346·1.0,68·. Union Faculty &Students, Thanks for. everything ••• ' . . ,·.\ ', _,. \\I,.-,.- ·~ Gamma Phi . ' CABARET needs you. If you're interested in performing Cabaret Winter term • please Contact Mark at x6490 as soon as possible We Need You to Keep Cabaret Alfve Every Week! PIZZA PUB Open 1 :30 pm • Midnight EVERYDAY SPECIAL: Buy one slice, get one small soda free with ad Expires: January 23, 1986 :~ .. '\'t~.. ,,;,;• • ··: ' ,·. ''• -. • • o o • .-; :0 ' ' :':';~-: ::.- .. ·· · '.~ .. w.&Aliead·.·.·, · :.., < · ·and· · ... ··Register· · · · . ·th· ·se·~ec·· • ·ServiCe· ·· ··· .. · ·.· .. · · ·Q)· . ·. .. . . . ' . ' . . • . . WI . . . 4-ft....... . . · '·'· : . ...... '· . .. ·' ..... ~ .... . '• '\'n ' ,. . ' ' • • Old Chapel EffeCtive January 17, 1986, Old Chapel shall close after dinner on every Friday night and re·. open again on Sunday dinner at 5 p.m.-6:30p.m. On Tuesday, January 21, 1986, Hale House/Old Chapel shall be closed. For upperclassmen West College and the Rathskellar shall be happy to accomodate them. President Dinner for Freshmen.

r CONCORDIENSJS, Jimuary 16, 1986 Page9 STUDENT PARTICIPANTS NEEDED ••• for an experiment for a Senior Proiect in Political Science Participants will be asked to complete two brief surveys and to watch videotapes of the House of Represen- tatives. Participants wiU be paid $3 per hour and can participate tor either a single 1 hour period OR for 1 hour periods on 2 sepa·rate days. The study will be conducted within next 2 weeks. For more information or to volunteer: Contact Lauren at 346-1068. Union Faculty & Students, Thanks for everything • • . ·~~· ,. • Gamma Phi c .. ' :: ~---~ ~~~~~ ~- .!IIIIi;; - . - ~ .. - = ~-;-~~- --~~-~-0 ~- ~-= ::-:::- _ ___:··= ~~ - ---- - ~ ~- :·~ -=-- ~- - ---~~ - CABARET needs you. If you're interested in performing Cabaret Winter term .. please Contact Mark at x6490 as soon as possible We Need You to Keep Cabaret Alive Every Week! PIZZA PUB Open 1:30pm .. Midnight EVERYDAY SPECIAL: Buy one slice, get one small soda free with ad Expires: January 23, 1986 • • • • •• \ ' •• ' ! • '. • • I ' ,- • • • ;:.J\~ ',,~;_,_ .: . . GOAheadan,fRegisterwith Selectire Service. Old Chapel I , : ' Effective January 17, 19-86, Old Chapel shall close after dinner on every Friday night and re- open again on Sunday dinner at 5 p.m.-6:30p.m. On Tuesday, January 21, 1986, Hale House/Old Chapel shall be closed. For upperclassmen West College and the Rathskellar shall be happy to accomodate tl1em. President Dinner for Freshmen.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, Jonilory 16 1 198~. · FEATURES The Minerva Hour The Minerva Conunittee.of Union College presents The Winter 1986 Schedule Jan. 22 Jon. 29 Feb. 12 Frb 19 M,lfl h '> JOHN TEPASKE, Professor ol History at Duke Unw~rsity, is a l<'llding rxpert on thr history of colonial Spanish i\merica. He has publish..U wid<-ly in journals and rom posit~ ~;d,., author or editor of a dozen books. including Th~ Gm•I'Tnorship of Flbzda, The Royal Trea.su.rirs of th~ SpanLSh Emprre zn Amerzca, and The /(oyal Protomedicalo: The RrguiMzon of the Mrd•cal ProfeJmJn m the SpaniSh Emp1re. RICHARD J. BARTLETI is the Dean olthe Albany Law School. He has be<>n a member of the New York State Assembly, chairman of lhe New York Slate \.rime Control C.Qunril. a jusrire of the New York State Supreme C.our!. and chief administrative judg<> with mponsibility for administering 1he New York rnun system. MOST REV. HOWARD J. HUBBARD is Bishop of. the Roman C.atholi< Diocese of Albany. He is active in many community and social welfarr a~rncit'S as well as a variety ol church organizations; hr was a founder of Hope House, a facility for the tn'atment anu·rehabiliuuion of drug addkts and is chairman of the New York State Catholic Conference Public Poli<y Committee. He was appointed to thr Sr<T<'tariat for Non-Belit'V<·rs by PCl)X' John Pau I II. FOUNDERS DAY ROLANDO GlTILLERMOPRIETO i> d lt'<turcr .11 Thr Q•mt·r lor B1lmgual. Muhuulturdl Studies in Mf'xiro. A native of Mexico (~ty, hr has lived and studied in the United States, England. and the Bahama Islands dnd h\ p.<mung; have been exh1b11t-d throu~hounhe world. In 1983·84 ht• .,,..a, Lillv Oi,tingui,ht'f! Foreign Proft'S5<>l dt F..Hihdm Collt~t· m lnt11and. GARY PREVOST 1s Associate Pro!e>sor of Gov<'rnmrnt at Saint John's l 'nl\·rr;ity in (~>ll<·grvillr, Mmn. A 1969 gradual<· of Union. he was acuw in the Minm~ota Peace A<tum C'.oalition and the National Pra<t· A< tion C.oahtion during tht' 1970's. H<· ha> dom• n·scarch in Spain and C<'ntl\dl Amr1 1< a ,md is tht· author of Polttzc>·and Change m Spam. ALFRED KINGON is assistant to President Reagan and Secretary of the Cabmrt. He i; a !95.'l graduate of Union. UNION GREEKS- THANKS! GAMMA PHI BETA Friday the 1Oth (Part I) By WENDY ZIMMERMAN Staff It's Friday night on the Union College campus in the scenic area of Schenectady, New York. IstheSke.lleropen? (And I don't mean the bake shop.) No. Is the Pub open? No. Are there any parties going on? Of course not! ! So here I sit in my room anxiously awaiting the arrival of some news of the course of events of the evening; thank God I didn't hold my breath. Aha! ! My friends and I come up with an idea. Rafters' 18 and over night! Great idea right? Well, some might say· so. Here is the saga of me and my buddies. First we, or I, call to find out the details of this jumping party. I am. told there is.!..absolutely no alcohrll in the place and there is a $3.00 cover charge. Alright, this is all fine and good but then I am asked, \How old are you?\ How old am I? Why must I be subject to this most annoying question and of all places, over the phone? In any case, we began to prepare. We went through all the.routine steps any college student would. Shower, dr_ess, and the usual parade between friends' rooms asking the usual question, \O.K. how do I look?\ When we were ready all nine of us piled into the ever-popular family station wagon which is · no longer needed at home; drove hall an hour and parked in a tiny corner In the back of a totally packed gravel parking lot. After walking to a hall mile line, only to find our shoes totally soaked and no longer having any feeling left in our toes, we proceeded to wait half an hour just to make it to the door; needless to say some of us had no jackets and it felt like 20 below. Once inside we went to check our coats. Two of us were loaded . with everything and were left only to wait another half hour; havirtg to empl~y tile method of saying in just the right volume, \I am claustrophobic,. I am-going to be sick\ to get to the counter quicker. When this episode ended we all proceeded to the dance floor. Things started off well until I began to sense a foreign object upon my derriere; .of course I regarded it as a mere reaction to the defrosting of my body; until they kept repeating. I promptly turned around to find a group of four prepubescent boys smacking their lips in our general direction; O.K. get me an air sickness bag!! How _did they ever get in? (I later realized that this was a very. easy task considering the fact that they never proofed to check how old you were.) We quickly moved to another spot after saying a few crude remarks to our neWfound friends. We were quite surprised arid slightly disappointed to find a mere four Union College students·present; I use the word disappointment . lightly as anyone else woUld after viewing the attending crowd. After getting quite overheated, we mlUlaged to squeeze and push our way to the 'dry' bar. This journey resulted in our paying· $2.35 for a 'virgin' strawberry dacquiri. (Are strawberries out of season?) We continued at- tempting to dance at the same time we were pushing our elbows out to get enough floor space to move. A short while later a member of our party frautically makes her way towards us with an in- describable look upon her face. She says, ''O.K., get me out of here, some kid pinches. my ass; so I turn around at which time he flashes me this smile and exposes his shiny braces!!\ By now we were all getting the feeling that maybe we should depart. After. dancing a bit more, (by now it was around 1:45 and the place had emptied) we rounded everyone up and made our way out the door to trek it over to the car. What was once a packed security guarded rectangular plot of land, was now a desolate snow covered area scattered with various containers of alcoholic beverages. Unless the policeman I saw patrolling the area when we arrived con• surned over 600 ounces of alcohol, it occurred to me that this evening's activity was not at all dry. In any event we poked back in the station wagon and started off on what turned out to be a qui,et, boring half hour trip back to yet a quiet, boring college campus. As we. pulled into the Richmond parking lot and glanced up at the ominous, scarcely lit building in which we sleep, we were taken aback by the con- figuration of lights. Oniy the bathrooms and ballways were lit; we al1 simultaneously . checked our watches and blinked .a few times to make sure we weren't dreaming this, we weren't. It was 2:25 a.m. Saturday morning and no one was up. Depression and reality quickly set it. As we dragged ourselves around the corner to the fron! door . we all sadly glanced down beneath the glow o( the lamppost at one lowly Bud can crumpled and left unat- tended in the cold snow. We all paused and let out a sigh. We had all finally come to the conclusion that this term was going to be quite different than what we were used to. The next morning tied the entire experience . t~ether. It was more than a little strange getting up without a hangover and missing it, in addition to not having a genuine need for coffee at brunch. Something must be done to remedy situations such as this, for if nothing is done we will all end up dried out and shriveled up by forced inhibitance of our overheated rooms. Somebody help? Please? QCOO~~~HM~~eccooo~~ • • • Deprivation Tanks Tickets. are . · Now on Sale for all Upcoming Events, including shows. at Proctors. Continued from page 7 an intercom to communicate with a staff member. When your time is up, a tone sounds, the light comes on, and you are told that your session is through. Hi-Tech's price is relatively reasonable-nonme!:'nbers pay $20 for an hour float~and they are very good about leading newcomers through the process, but be warned that their tank is imperfect. When I went, a small amount of light came in (a minor distraction, especially if you close your eyes), and I could hear music from the hall (a major distraction, even though I had earplugs in, .but perhaps music in the tank would have masked it). Still, it's a fascinating ex- · perience if you're interested and I did feel invigorated when I left. You should also know that this is definitely not for the claustrophobic and that the best way to get the most out of it is to expect the least. Relaxed as you are, the mind is still in control and if you lie there waiting for a great revelation~ you'll only psyche yourself out of the ex- perience. I'm also told that the effect varies with your state of mind, and that it is especially strong.after strenuous exercise. In any case, I recommend trying it at least once-you'll be amazed at what those tanks can do. The Ticket Booth is locate~ in Old Chapel. -

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 FEATURES . ,.,: ; ', '• ~ ' ' '. ' '. ',. . ' . ' . ' . ' ' . ~ ' . . ~ The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee of Union College presents The Winter 1986 Schedule j.tJI ;_:';.:' h·b 12 Ft·h IQ h h :.!li :\f. HI h ~l JOH~ TEPA~KE, Profe.,.>tlf of li~>wry~tDu~t· t:nrH'r>il}, 15 d lt•admg t·\pcrl 11n rhc hi!ilor\ of c ulr>nidl Spdllbh f\!nt·r ua. Ht· has publt.!ihnJ W1dr.ly m joun1al'- anrl compn'il!e vehfflH!&. and!., rht· .Juthor ur ffiuur uf d dozt:n lu1ok' me luding The (;ovnmmhrp of Fltirrda, The Royal Treasune.1 of the 'fJatudl l mptre zn Amerua, and The Ro)'al Protomedualo: the HF\!!dntw~i o/tlw .\tt>dual Jlwfe.,.szon w the .)paTEuh l:mprre. RICHARD J. BARTL.ETI 11 the Dedn of the Albany Law S<hocll. H~ has ht'1'H ,'1 mnnbt·r of r}u· ~rw Yurk ~l..tlr A!:l:,t>mbi), lhauman of the Nt•w Yor-k ~tatr Ctimt· Control Council. a JWiriu· of rhr :\'t· .... York Stdlt' Suprenu· Cnurr. and c·h1t>f adnuni')trative JUdgp with I<'!t(X>n~ibdir~ for admini!ltt·ring the New York murt system. MOST REV. HOWARD J. HUBBARD is Bishop nf rht•Rnman Catholic D10<ese ul Alban)·· Hl' is active m many community and social W<'lfarr agt'nlH'o,. a~ wt·H a~ a \.Jr1C'l'r of church organuauons; he was a foundt·r nl Hopr Hmm·. a fat iltry lor the trt:atmt·nt dncl rehabilitation uf drug adtlic ts and r>, hatrman of the New York Stare Catholi< C\'nfc•rence Publi1 Pohq ComrnJttc•t•. H<· w~' appmnwd trJ tht· See:rc·tanat for Non·Bt•llt'V<'t' by PoP<' l•>hn P~ulll. FOUNDERS DA \' ROLANDO C:t'ILLERMOPRIETO \a ln.1urc:r ar !la (;.·u•,·r lor R!lmgu~l. Multrculrural SrudrN in Mc,un A nai!Vt' of Mt'xieo Cil},l!P has l\\d and mrdH'l rn the United Statt's, England. and the Bahama h!and• .tlld hh p.mlllfl.~' h.nt· lx·<·tl t•xhrbued lhJoughout lht• worlti.ln 198.\!RH4 he· w,t, f_rll\ llr'-IIH1~1ihhnt Fnrn~H Pruk.,.,or .tl Lulh.Jrll Collt gc Jlt lndJdlld. GAR\\ PRf.VUST ,._, A5sO<.rau· Prult\'lsur of GoH·rnnu·nt i:tl ~dtnt John'~ l'nl\n,JI\ m (.ullq~n.dk. Mtnrl A 1909 ~·~du..tk of t:nion. he· wets dUIV<' m rhr· !\.hnru· ... nr.t Pr·acr· :\(llcHl Cn:rlillnn .uul dw ~.rllurt.JI Pt·..ru· AllliHl C:o~tlrlloll dunng the 1970·~ lk ha, done• tt''iC'.tH h m \'ipdin and (A:•mral .\mt'tll .1 .md 1-. !IH' ,uuhor of Polllu \ and C:hati_I!,P m .\pam ALFRED KINGON \assiSiant '\ Presidnu R\·'ll\\ ~nd S~notar} olth~ Cabrnt·t. lk \d 1953 graduate· of 1 inwn ' . . ' ' . . . ' ' ' . •,' • • ! : UNION GREEKS- THANKS! GAMMA PHI BETA Friday the 1Oth (Part I) By WENDY ZIMMERMAN Staff It's Friday night on the Union College campus in the scenic area of Schenectady, New York. Is the Skeller open? (And I don't mean the bake shop.) No. Is the Pub open? No. Are there any parties going on? Of course not!! So here I sit in my room anxiously awaiting the arrival of some news of the course of events of the evening; thank God I didn't hold my breath. Aha! ! My friends and I come up with an idea. Rafters' 18 and over night! Great idea right? Well, some might say so. Here is the saga of me and my buddies. First we, or I, call to find out the details of this jumping party. I am told there is absolutely no alcohol in the place and there is a $3.00 cover charge. Alright, this is all fine and good but then I am asked, \Howoldareyou?\ How old am I? Why must I be subject to this most annoying question and of all places, over the phone? In any case, we began to prepare. We went through all the routine steps any college student would. Shower, <kess, and the usual parade between friends' rooms asking the usual question, \O.K. how do I look?\ When we were ready all nine of us piled into the ever-popular family station wagon which is no longer needed at home; drove ha~ an hour and parked in a tiny corner in the back of a totally packed gravel parking lot. After walking to a half mile line, only to find our shoes totally soaked and no longer having any feeling left in our toes, we proceeded to wait ha~ an hour just to make it to the door; needless to say some of us had no jackets and it felt like 20 below. Once inside we went to check our coats. Two of us were loaded with everything and were left only to wait another half hour; having to employ the method of saying in just the right volume, \I am claustrophobic, I am going to be sick\ to get to the counter quicker. When this episode ended we all proceeded to the dance floor. Things started off well until I began to sen~e a foreign object upon my derriere; Qf course I regarded it as a mere reaction to the defrosting of my body; until they kept repeating. I promptly turned around to find a group of four prepubescent boys smacking their lips in our general direction; O.K. get me an air sickness bag! ! How did they ever get in? (I later realized that this was a very easy task considering the fact that they never proofed to check how old you were.) We quickly moved to another spot after saying a few crude remarks to our newfound friends. We were quite surprised and slightly disappointed to find a mere four Union College students present; I use the word disappointment lightly as anyone else would after viewing the attending crowd. After getting quite overheated, we mi,Ulaged to squeeze and push our way to the 'dry' bar. This journey resulted in our paying $2.35 for a 'virgin' strawberry dacquiri. (Are strawberries out of season?) We continued at- tempting to dance at the same time we were pushing our elbows out to get enough floor space to move. A short while later a member of our party frantically makes her way towards us with an in- describable look upon her face. She says, \O.K. get me out of here, some kid pinches my ass; so I turn around at which time he flashes me this smile and exposes his shiny braces!!\ By now we were all getting the feeling that maybe we should depart. After dancing a bit more, (by now it was around 1:45 and the place had emptied) we rounded everyone up and made our way out the door to trek it over to the car. What was once a packed security guarded rectangular plot of land, was now a desolate snow covered area scattered with various containers of alcoholic beverages. Unless the policeman I saw patrolling the area when we arrived con- sumed over 600 ounces of alcohol, it occurred to me that this evening's activity was not at all dry. In any event we poked back in the station wagon and started off on what turned out to be a quiet, boring half hour trip back to yet a quiet, boring college campus. As we pulled into the Richmond parking lot and glanced up at the ominous, scarcely lit building in which we sleep, we were taken aback by the con- figuration of lights. Only the bathrooms and hallways were lit; we all simultaneously checked our watches and blinked a few times to make sure we weren't dreaming this, we weren't. It was 2:25 a.m. Satw·day morning and no one was up. Depression and reality quickly set it. As we dragged ourselves around the corner to the fron! door we all sadly glanced down beneath the glow of the lamppost atone lowly Bud can crumpled and left unat- tended in the cold snow. We all paused and let out a sigh. We had all finally come to the conclusion that this term was going to be quite different than what we were used to. The next morning tied the entire experience t~ether. It was more than a little strange getting up without a hangover and missing it, in addition to not having a genuine need for coffee at brunch. Something must be done to remedy situations such as this, for if nothing is done we will all end up dried out and shriveled up by forced inhibitance of our overheated rooms. Somebody help? Please? Tickets are • • • Deprivation Tanks I I Now on Sale for all Upcoming Events, including shows at Proctors. Continued from page 7 an intercom to communicate with a staff member. When your time is up, a tone sounds, the light comes on, and you are told that your session is through. Hi-Tech's price is relatively reasonable-nonme:nbers pay $20 for an hour float-and they are very good about leading newcomers through the process, but be warned that their tank is imperfect. When I went, a small amount of light came in (a minor distraction, especially if you close your eyes), and I could hear music from the hall (a major distraction, even though I had earplugs in, but perhaps music in the tank would have masked it). Still, it's a fascinating ex- perience if you're interested and I did feel invigorated when I left. You should also know that this is definitely not for the claustrophobic and that the best way to get the most out of it is to expect the least. Relaxed as you are, the mind is still in control and if you lie there waiting for a great revelation, you'll only psyche yourself out of the ex- perience. I'm also told that the effect varies with your state of mind, and that it is especially strong after strenuous exercise. In any case, I recommend trying it at least once-you'll be amazed at what those tanks can do. § § The Ticket Booth is located in Old Chapel. i :1 ' . \(. i I ,. -

• I _I - ~ Film Committee Presents: Roger Moore as James Bond 007 in ~ • I;' > '• _. A VIEW TO A KILl Fri.,: Sat., Sun Jan. 17-19 7:30, 10 SS016 Admission $1.00 TI:ME BANDITS Tuesday Jan. 21 SS016 7,9,11 Admission $1.00 WELCOME BACK UNION SLAPSHOTS now serving PIIZAI Daily .5:00 to;l :00 a~m. Try It! $1- Off Pitcher with Pizza we still have the Best Chicken Wings in Town TRY OUR TAKE OUT SERVICE *CHICKEN WINGS* PIZZA* BEER* CONCORDIENSIS, Jo~uqry 16, 198:6 Page ll ''Every mile is two in,·winter. '' ·'\ George Herbert; ' - ·, THE ARTS The Stompers? ByCARATABACK Contributor \The Stompers? The same group that played at West Beach last year?'??\ \How could it be? If this is _them why are they playing in room 108 of the arts building?\ \Nab it can't be.\ Sue enough it was not them. Friday night January lOth a group called The Stompers performed to a fine and shoeless audience. Though they call themselves by the same narpe as the rock band, the name is one of just two things these two groups have in common. The second similarity is that in the same way everyone got up to dance and jump around for the rock group (especially £or 'Shout' if you remember), not one foot was left untapping nor one body lefh unswaying to the music of The Stampers, the fiddlers performing traditional American folk music. The 'quartet which formed four years ago consists of two women, Sandol Astrausky and Amy Davis, and two men, Craig Edwards and- Tom Randall. Each player's fingers flew across the strings so fast you'd have· thought the strings were burning hot to the touch. The group also complemented their amazing musical skills with harmonious lyrics. The end product was everything from a capella (ex. 'The Red Rocking Chair,' a blues-y a capella song) to old country songs like 'LOnesome. Rhine,' a touching s6rig al:JOUt Texas to music (reels) 1':5f Ireland such as 'The Old Rigged Ship' and 'the New Rigged Ship,\ to hymns like 'The Faithful Soldier,' claimed to be Lincoln's all-time favorite. The audience willingly joined in on easy-to-grasp refrains and chuckled at such songs as 'Won't Get Drunk No More,' a sort of a coWltry tune that any college student could truly justify on a given Saturday morning. The audience was exposed to a wide variety of instruments: an American four and an American five string banjo, an Irish drum, a bazooki-a Greek instrument similar to a man- dolin, violins, a guitar and a flute.Each member swapped off instruments and was just as adept at one as on another. This group, which basically resides in Connecticut plays in such plaaces as coffee houses, work shops,. clubs, town con- certs, pubs and folk festivals. Their unique sound is sort of a combination of the Grand 01' Opry, \Hee Haw,\ and Peter, Paul and Mary. Listeners were invited to get up and let themselves hang loose and dance, a couple of whome gloriously reeled around the floor and joined in with the rest of the audience in demanding \more\ when the Stompers left the stage. Thus more than willing The Stompers per- formed one encore. Towards the middle of the concert Craig Edwards questioned, \Are we having fun yet?\ Yet?? From the minute The Stampers started playing until they stopped everyone from the fiddlers to the listeners was having fun. The Art of Keeping Warm By~TAFF With the new term also comes tbe new cold weather. Union students must learn to brave the cold .air which causes numb noses, fingers and toes. In order to survive walking to and from classes, in these freezing temperatures, one must dress properly. This; however, becomes quite difficUlt because it is simply not fashionable to dress with five layers of clothing, thick gloves, and ugly hats. Personally, I enjoy looking fashionable even in cold weather. Let's face it, hats just don't cut it. They flatten your hair and wearing them makes you feel like a real jerk. But after. awhile, warmth takes precedence over fashion and I begin not to care what I look like. I must admit though, there are ways to look fashionable and still keep reasonably warm. For instance, wearing a pair of long underwear under your clothes is inconspicuous. It may look as if you've gained a pound or two, but then again doesn't everyone during winter term? Another imaginative way of keeping warm is to wrap a scarf over·your head sO'\that your ears and neck keep warm. Also, a lot of people )Jave been weaming ear muffs as an alternative to hats. Wearing oversized jackets seems to be a popular craze. The extra room these jackets provide allows you to wear that extra turtleneck or sweater. Another thing that I feel is necessary to survive the winter term is sunglasses. True, they don't keep you warm, but they cut way down on the glare from the snow on the ground. They also look \cool.\ Keeping all these things in mind, next time you leave for classes, try and coordinate your wardrobe to look \cool\ yet be warm at the same time. Having to bundle up at some point in the term is inevitable. Good luck! All-Student Dance Dance to ''THE PHAMTOMS'' Date: January 21, 1986 Place: Old Chapel Beverages and Hors D'oeuvres by the Crackcling Fireplace at the Hale House Time: 10 p .• m. till a.m. Price: $2.00 per person Sponsored by Student Activities Tickets on sale at Ticket Booth first floor Old Chapel

' i . I ~. ' . ~ Film Committee Presents: Roger Moore as James Bond 007 in A VIEW TO A KILL Fri., Sat., Sun Jan. 17-19 7:30,10 55016 Admission $1.00 TIME BANDITS Tuesday Jan. 21 55016 7,9,11 Admission $1.00 WELCOME BACK UNION SLAPSHOTS • now serv1ng PIZZA! Daily 5:00 to 1:00 a.m. Try It! $1 Off Pitcher with Pizza We still have the Best Chicken Wings in Town TRY OUR TAKE OUT SERVICE *CHICKEN WINGS* PIZZA* BEER* CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 Page 11 .. ''Every mile is two in winter. '' George Herbert · THE ARTS The Stompers? ByCARATABACK Contributor \The Stompers? The same group that played at West Beach last year???\ \How could it be? If this is them why are they playing in room 108 of the arts building?\ \Nah it can't be.\ Sue enough it was not them. Friday night January lOth a group called The Stompers performed to a fine and shoe less audience. Though they call themselves by the same name as the rock band, the name is one of just two things these two groups have in common. The second similarity is that in the same way everyone got up to dance and jump around for the rock group (especially for 'Shout' if you remember), not one foot was left Wltapping nor one body lefh Wlswaying to the music of The Stompers, the fiddlers performing traditional American folk music. The quartet which formed four years ago consists of two women, Sando! Astrausky and Amy Davis, and two men, Craig Edwards and Tom Randall. Each player's fingers flew across the strings so fast you'd have· thought the strings were burning hot to the touch. The group also complemented their amazing musical skills with harmonious lyrics. The end product was everything from a capella (ex:. 'The Red Rocking Chair,' a blues-y a capella song) to old country songs like 'Lonesome Rhine,' a touching song about Texas to music (reels) of Ireland such as 'The Old Rigged Ship' and 'the New Rigged Ship,'' to hymns like 'The Faithful Soldier,' claimed to be Lincoln's all-time favorite. The audience willingly joined in on easy-to-grasp refrains and chuckled at such songs as 'Won't Get Drunk No More,' a sort of a country tune that any college student could truly justify OFI a given Saturday morning. The audience was exposed to a wide variety of instruments: an American fo1:1r and an American five string banjo, an Irish drum, a bazooki-a Greek instrument similar to a man- dolin, violins, a guitar and a flute.Each member swapped off instruments and was just as adept at one as on another. This group, which basically resides in Connecticut plays in such plaaces as coffee houses, work shops, clubs, town con- certs, pubs and folk festivals. Their unique sound is sort of a combination of the Grand 01' Opry, \Hee Haw,\ and Peter, Paul and Mary. Listeners were invited to get up and let themselves hang loose and dance, a couple of whome gloriously reeled around the floor and joined in with the rest of the audience in demanding \more\ when the Stompers left the stage. Thus more than willing The Stompers per- formed one encore. Towards the middle of the concert Craig Edwards questioned, ''Are we having fun yet?\ Yet?? From the minute The Stompers started playing until they stopped everyone fronn the fiddlers to the listeners was having fun. The Art of Keeping W ann By~TAFF With the new term also comes the new cold weather. Union students must learn to brave the cold air which causes numb noses, fingers and toes. In order to survive walking to and from classes, in these freezing temperatures, one must dress properly. This, however, becomes quite difficult because it is simply not fashionable to dress with five layers of clothing, thick gloves, and ugly hats. Personally, I enjoy looking fashionable even in cold weather. Let's face it, hats just don't cut it. They flatten your hair and wearing them makes you feel like a real jerk. But after awhile, warmth takes precedence over fashion and I begin not to care what I look like. r must admit though, there are ways to look fashionable and still keep reasonably warm. For instance, wearing a pair of long underwear under your clothes is inconspicuous. It may look as if you've gained a pound or two, but then again doesn't everyone during winter term? Another imaginative way of keeping warm is to wrap a scarf over your head sothat your ears and neck keep warm. Also, a lot of people })ave been weaming ear muffs as an alternative to hats. Wearing oversized jackets seems to be a popular craze. The extra room these jackets provide allows you to wear that extra turtleneck or sweater. Another thing that I feel is necessary to survive the winter term is sWiglasses. True, they don't keep you warm, but they cut way down on the glare from the snow on the ground. They also look \cool.\ Keeping all these things in mind, next time you leave for classes, try and coordinate your wardrobe to look \cool\ yet be warm at the same time. Having to bundle up at some point in the term is inevitable. Good luck! All-Student Dance Dance to ''THE PHAMTOMS'' Date: January 21, 1986 Place: Old Chapel Beverages and Hors D'oeuvres by the Crackling Fireplace at the Hale House Time: 10 p.m. till a.m. Price: $2.00 per person Sponsored by Student Activities Tickets on sale at Ticket Booth first floor Old Chapel

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Jannary 16, 1986 THE ARTS Dreaming lmmett of Capital Rep •••• AlbanyPremiereTheatre By TOD DIMMICK. Arts Editor Dreaming Emmett, a new first time teatrical effort by well·known author Toni Morrison {Tar Baby, Song of Solomon), has an effect not 1,llllike being thrown into the water to learn how to swim. You thrash about until you get an .idea what it's all about. But in Dreaming Emmet, one has to learn how to swim more than once. Emmett Till (Joseph C. Dreaming Emmett, directed by Gilbert Moses, is a pr~miere play at the Market' Theatre in downtown Albany through February 2. Phillips) was the name of a 14- year old black boy from Mississippi. In 1955, he sup- posedly whistled at a white woman who promptly felt sexually harassed. According to Margarte Croyden of the New York Times, Emmett was then \beaten and killed, and his alleged murderers, white men, were acquitted by an all white jury. The case became a worldwide symbol· of southern racism, a spark that helped ignite the civil rights movement.\ Such a. source forms the Ditter backbone for this ultra-loaded play. The play starts 30 years after Emmett's death, in 1985. The \Rock a Little\ Review: Stevie Nicks: Nixed By STAFF Over the past few years we have been deluged by solo albums from the lead singers or top members of presently as well as formerly popular rock bands, for example Phil Collins of Genesis, Sting of the Police and Mick Jagger of The Rolling Stones. These are albums written and performed by people we consider sincere artists. After hearing another piece of this commercial, mega money-making, tripe from these so called artists and superstars. I'm beginning to wonder whether these people were ever capable of writing at the very least, intelligent or stimulating music. The latest of these solo efforts to hit the stores is the new album from Stevie Nicks ap- propriately titled ''Rock a Little.!' This music is so mainstream \Pop\ you can almost hear her blowing bubble gum bubbles in between the many \Oh Babys,\ her ever so trite lyrics and simple choruses like this: No spoken word No small command What was it she wanted They say she had everything\ Repeat this five timeS and you have the song \No Spoken Word.\ Or how about this one: \He says to her . . . why do you do it She says to him . . . why do you stay Then they say unspoken words to explain it He says, baby, I hate to see you this way I hate to see you I hate to see you cry.\ Any idiot can repeat the same phrase over and over again and call it a lyric, but few can get away with it. Come on Stevie, what is this garbage? It cer- tainly cannot be-called \Artistic Expression.\ Unfortunately and ironically the second set of lyrics belongs tQ the song \Imperial Hotel,\ the only legitimate and pleaseing rock melody on the album. The other eleven songs are a mixture of electronic beeps and buzzers, disco beats and Stevie Nicks' straining and dying vocal cords. \Imperial Hotel\ sounds as if Tom Petty and The Heartbreakers are backing her (an old formula that has worked twice before). Predictably so, this is not the case. In fact, Ms. Nicks has abandoned most of the formulas that earned her such critical and public acclaim for the albums Bella Donna and The Wild Heart. If you are a fan who presents is still interested in buying this album after reading this article, and if you expect to hear songs like \Sarah \Stop Dragging My :fleart Around,\ \The Edge of Seventeen,\ \Wild Heart,\ or \Rhiannon\ you will be ex- tremely disappointed. Although you can rest assured that the song currently being over- played onpop and rock stations, titled, \Talk to Me\ is by far the worst piece on the album, and the most melodically offensive song she has ever performed; the others are not far behind in weakness. I can offer no explanation for this sudden change in style from rock to pop save perhaps Ms. Nicks' desire to sell millions of albums and make millions of dollars as quickly as possible before her vocal cords cease functioning completely. Even with this album's many problems, it has received some decent reviews. It should also be popular with teeny-boppers as well. The reason being, that there is a certain mystique about it. For me though, this aura is found in the sight of a once great and beautiful rock star growing into a middle aged, washed-up, ex-superstar and proving it to the world. C' est la vie. Good Luck next time Stevie ... If you have one . Thursday Nite Cabaret in the SKELLAR!! A NEW LOCATION FOR AN OLD TRADITION Today Act I Jim Havard • Wendy Richards Act II Dave Provost .. M.C~ John Zuk Thursday Nights at the Skellar are once again alive. Tickets $1 .so on sale at old Chapel Ticket Booth spirit of Emmett i's still dreaming, and into his dream he .pulls the people he knew from his past: ·his boyhood friends Eustace (Mel Winkler) and George (Herb Downer). The infamous white woman who Emmett calls ''princess\ (Peggy Cowles) appears with the Major (Richard .Zobel) and Buck (Larry Golden), the two who killed Emmett. At first aU but Emmett wear huge · caricature masks, enhancing the unreal, dreamlike quality of the play. Emmett sees them all and is stunned to· see the changes after 30 years. While he has remained the same, they have all aged. What is worse for Emmett is that their attitudes have changed as well; Eustace and George don't understand Why Ellllhett is still vengeful after 30 years. ''Times have changed,\ they say. \We even had a black person run for President.\ Unconvinced, Emmett returns ''but e ate there still other Eminetts being killed?\ And even now, the white people do not feel guilty, much. Here is th~ initial conflict, emotional and very real. With good acting and dramatic stage effects; the events lash at one's s.enses with .effective use of the macabre. · Yet suddenly wherl we start to grasp firmly {)D tbis train of thought, the focus changes. No longer does the story fpcus on Enunett, it focuses upon his dream-real characters. The conflict does not remain Black·White, but also drifts ·into male-female conflict as well. In ·a very real way, for a dream, each personal subject is argUed and fought and cried over, yet nothing is solv.ed, the issues only become more apparent. In the end we are not left with a feeling of completeness, rather we are left with a clearer knoWledge of the conflicts and. the problems that are con- tinuing on the stage of life. For this I would recommend. Dreaming Emmett. While I arn tempted to call the play heavy handed or even melodramatic, on second thought I realize that there is nothing light about . these issues in real life. At the end, · Tamara (Lorraine Toussaint) asks Emmett \Did it c;lo any good?\ Emmett replies, ''Well, I'm peaceful now.'' So he is, at a cost. The intent of the play is certainly not to make us feel peaceful. For an emotional workout, go see Dreaming Elll{llett. ) WR.UC SCHENECTADY 89.7 fm STEREO • .. THE FI.RST STATION IN THE NATION\ We're back at Union and so is The WRuc· TOP 8.97! As you remember, this is the weekly com- pilation of the most frequently played albwns this past week at WRUC. Many bands strive their entire careers .in hope that they will make this chart. Some never do. All listeners can request their favorite new music at 370..()151 and actually in- fluence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist 1-TheCult 2-Hood()o Gurus 3-Big Audio Dynamite 4-TheAlarm 5-INXS 6-Echo & the Banshees 8-A Work of Fiction 8.97-Beastie Boys Program Notes Album Label Love-Sire Mars Needs Guitars-Big Time This is ... -CBS Strength\'-IRS Listen Like Theives-Atlantic Cities inDust-Geffen Take a 2nd Look-Indep. ''She's On It'' -Defjam Refer to the D.J. schedule also in this issue of Concordy. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director Join Us for Candlelight Dinner at Hale House (Waiters/Waitresses served) Candlelight dining in Hale House is provided monthly for 10 and 14 contracts and bi-monthly for 19 meal contracts. Contact Hale House Manager/Asst. Manager for further details. le th th m a~ pl: bE af ac ar na pe pl. aE th Tl bo ag pa ofJ ci< ... on ha ar .~ pu pi: ou 'tl in: ·' pa pa pr W( H~ fil B1 ou co sn us ne ar ch \h pe qu co: ... WG an lo; pr sc en ha th pr ~ OU1 (i.j Bu bll: teG sit1 to 1 ' Cot Cf{ .. ~ or

Pagl\ 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Ja1zuary 16, 1986 THE ARTS Dreaming Emmett af Capital Repo ••• Albany Premiere Theatre By TOD DIMMICK Arts Editor Dreaming Emmett, a new first time teatrical effert by well-known author Toni Morrison (Tar Baby, Song of Solomon), has an effect not unlike being thrown into the water to learn how to swim. You thrash about until you get an idea what it's all about. But in Dreaming Emmet, one has to learn how to swim more than once. Emmett Till (Joseph C. Phillips) was the name of a 14- year old black boy from Mississippi. In 1955, he sup- posedly whistled at a white woman who promptly felt sexually harassed. According to Margarte Croyden of the New York Times, Emmett was then \beaten and killed, and his alleged murderers, white men, were acquitted by an all white jury. The case became a worldwide symbol of southern racism, a spark that helped ignite the civil rights movement.\ Such a source Dreaming Emmett, directed by Gilbert Moses, is a premiere play forms the Ditter backbone for at the Market Theatre in downtown Albany through February 2. this ultra-loaded play. The play starts 30 years after Emmett's death, in 1985. The \Rock a Little\ Review: Stevie Nicks: Nixed By STAFF Over the past few years we have been deluged by solo albums from the lead singers or top members of presently as well as formerly popular rock bands, for example Phil Collins of Genesis, Sting of the Police and Mick Jagger of The Rolling Stones. These are albums written and performed by peoJ)le we consider sincere arti.sts. After hearing another piece of this commercial, mega money-making, tripe from these so called artists and superstars. I'm beginning to wonder whether these people were ever capable of writing at. the v~ry least, intelligent or stlmulatmg music. The latest of these solo efforts to hit the stores is the new albtun from Stevie Nicks ap- propriately titled \Rock a Little.\ This music is so mainstream \Pop\ you can almost hear her blowing bubble gum bubbles in between the many \Oh Babys,\ her ever so trite lyrics and simple choruses like this: No spoken word No small command What was it she wanted They say she had everything\ Repeat this five times and you have the song \No Spoken Word.\ Or how about this one: \He says to her ... why do you do it She says to him . . . why do you stay Then they say unspoken words to explain it He says, baby, I hate to see you this way I hate to see you I hate to see you cry.\ Any idiot can repeat the same phrase over and over again and call it a lyric, but few can get away with it. Come on Stevie, what is this garbage? It cer- tainly cannot be called ''Artistic Expression.\ Unfortunately and ironically the second set of lyrics belongs to the song \Imperial Hotel,\ the only legitimate and pleaseing rock melody on the album. The other eleven songs are a mixture of electronic beeps and buzzers, disco beats and Stevie Nicks' straining and dying vocal cords. \Imperial Hotel\ sounds as if Tom Petty and The Heartbreakers are backing her (an old formula that has worked twice before). Predictably so, this is not the case. In fact, Ms. Nicks has abandoned most of the formulas that earned her such critical and public acclaim for the albums Bella Donna and The Wild Heart. If you are a fan who presents is still interested in buying this album after reading this article, and if you expect to hear songs like \Sarah \Stop Dragging My Heart Around,\ \The Edge of Seventeen,\ \Wild Heart,\ or \Rhiannon\ you will be ex- tremely disappointed. Although you can rest assured that the song currently being over- played on pop and rock stations. titled, ''Talk to Me\ is by far the worst piece on the album, and the most melodically offensive song she has ever performed; the others are not far behind in weakness. I can offer no explanation for this sudden change in style from rock to pop save perhaps Ms. Nicks' desire to sell millions of albums and make millions of dollars as quickly as possible before her vocal cord,s cease functioning completely. Even with this album's many problems, it has received some decent reviews. It should also be popular with teeny-boppers as well. The reason being, that there is a certain mystique about it. For me though, this aura is found in the sight of a once great and beautiful rock star growing into a middle aged, washed-up, ex-superstar and proving it to the world. C'est la vie. Good Luck next time Stevie ... If you have one . Thursday Nite Cabaret in the SKELLAR!! A NEW LOCATION FOR AN OLD TRADITION Today Act I Jim Havard • Wendy Richards Act II Dave Provost- M.C. John Zuk Thursday Nights atthe Skellar are once again alive. Tickets $1.50 on sale at old Chapel Ticket Booth spirit of Emmett is still dreaming, and into his dream he pulls the people he knew from his past: his boyhood friends Eustace (Mel Winkler) and George (Herb Downer). The infamous white woman wha Emmett calls \princess\ (Peggy Cowles) appears with the Major (Richard Zobel) and Buck (Larry Golden), the two who killed Emmett. At first all but EIIllllett wear huge caricature masks, enhancing the unreal, dreamlike quality of the play. Emmett sees them all and is stunned to see the changes after 30 years. While he has remained the same, they have all aged. What is worse for Emmett is that their attitudes have changed as well; Eustace and George don't understand why Ennnett is still vengeful after 30 years. ''Times have changed,\ they say. \We even had a black person run for President.\ Unconvinced, Emmett returns \but~ are there still other Emmetts being killed?\ And even now, the white people do not feel guilty, much. Here is the initial conflict, emotional and very real. With good acting and dramatic stage effects, the events lash at one's senses with effective use of the macabre. Yet suddenly when we start to grasFJ firmly on this train of thought, the focus changes. No longer does the story focus on Emmett, it focuses upon his dream-real characters. The conflict does not remain Black-White, but also drifts into male-female conflict as well. In a very real way, for a dream, each personal subject is argued and fought and cried over, yet nothing is solved, the issues only become more apparent. In the end we are not left with a feeling of completeness, rather we are left with a clearer knowledge of the conflicts and the problems that are con- tinuing on the stage of life. For this I would recommend Dreaming Emmett. While I am tempted to call the play heavy handed or even melodramatic, on second thought I realize that there is nothing light about these issues in real life. At the end, Tamara (Lorraine Toussaint) asks Emmett \Did it do any good?\ Emmett replies, \Well I'm peaceful now.'' So he is, at a cost. The intent of the play is certainly not to make us feel peaceful. For an emotional workout, go see Dreaming ElllUlett. [ ) WRUC SCHENECTADY 89.7 fm STEREO • '\THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ We're back at Union and so is The WRUC TOP 8.97! As you remember, this is the weekly com- pilation of the most frequently played albums this past week at WRUC. Many bands strive their entire careers in hope that they will make this chart. Some never do. All listeners can request their favorite new music at 370-6151 and actually in- fluence the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist 1-TheCult 2-Hoodoo Gurus 3-Big Audio Dynamite 4-TheAlarm 5-INXS 6-Echo & the Banshees 8-A WorkofFiction 8.97-Beastie Boys Program Notes Album Label Love-Sire Mars Needs Guitars-Big Time This is ... -CBS Strength-IRS Listen Like Theives-Atlantic Cities in Dust -Geffen Take a 2nd Look-Indep. \She's On It\-Defjam Refer to the D.J. schedule also in this issue of Concordy. Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUCMusic Director Join Us for Candlelight Dinner at Hale House (Waiters/Waitresses served) Candlelight dining in Hale House is provided monthly for 10 and 14 contracts and hi-monthly for 19 meal contracts& Contact Hale House Manager/Asst. Manager for further details. le th th m a~ p8 be af. ad an na pe pll an th: Tt bo ag pa off ci< on ha ar, pu ph ou 'tt in: pa pa pr w~ H~ n:r Bt ou co sn us ne ar1 clc \h pe qu COl ~ WCl an lo< pr, sci en ha th• pr ' ou1 ( i.l Bu bla tea sit1 to 1 ' COt ere ). or

- - • • , he en li~ ·us he it ~al es ut Je al al ht is 1e :h s, lr .d. 1· If d n v CONCORIJIENSIS, January 16, 1986 Page 13 . . <!tllltfllrhitttsis Fouiidnl at lfniotJ Co/l~e 1877 ------~~~ -------- L.ighten Up Those of us who worked over the winter break learned one very important thing: we must enjoy these college days, because when they are over, things will probably get tougher. The ad- ministration's policy in regard to the new purchase age has· been set ~nd we are already feeling. the im- pact 9f this in just the first week. Several issues must be addressed here .. First: this policy, it seems, will affect our fun at Union College. Second: the college administration, the IFC, fraternities andsororities, and student affairs must come up. with many alter- . natives for student campus life. If this doesn't hap- pen, Union College will become a five-day-a-week place, where students l~ave to enjoy weekends away and bars off-campus. By alternatives, we mean more than just Freihoffer's baked goods in the Skellar. Third: it is a very sad commentary on the student body of this school when, as a result of the purchase age change, a number of letters to the editor on this page attack the college and the administration for not offering enough to the students. Is this just coin- cidental? , ~ It looks ~s if the purchase age change is an attack on the social life on this campus, the likes of which have never been seen he~e at Union. However, there are a lot of quality people at this school. We can all pull througll this. together and make Union an excitin~ place to be all the time! ~ > Of Course It's bad enough that Union Colleg~ students-pay the outrageous prices we do to attend school here. ·aut, 'they\ tell us it's because we attend a private, elite institution of higher learning. And besides, our parents will soon forget their ange~ after the last loan payment is made. The College needs to charge these priees in order to keep pace with those other colleges we 'like'' to compare ourselves to: Williams, Hamilton, Colgate, etc. So, we go on. We ignore our frustration at the fihances for the sake of our intellectual development. But, we sllould question: are we getting a return on our investment? We are paying to go to a small college, one where faculty accessibility and small class size together command this high price. However, we are no longer in this situation. Many of us were shut out of the courses we wanted (and needed) and, to exacerbate the problem, most of us are enrolled in classes of 30 or 40 people. These are classes where it's merely impossible to even say \hello\ to one's professor much less have a bit of personal contact. It's frustrating mainly, but it's also quite sad. We came to Union so we could have that contact that, we believed, would enrich our lives. We don't want to be nwnbers. If this is what we had wanted, we could have attended a state university and just blended into the crowd. The problem stems from the fact that the teaching load was cut from seven courses per term per professor to sjx. Thafs great. We'd l!>ve for t~e scholars of Union College to have more time for their endeavors. However, no additional teaching positions have been created since that time and we now find that there are approximately 200 .(1 X No. of professors) less courses from which to choose. Who is to blame for this situation that has gotten so out of hand'? Surely, we blame the \decision-makers\ (i.e.-the administration and the Board of . Trustees). But, we also cannot overlook putting some of the blame on the faculty itself. We're sure they dislike teaching a class of 30 people as much as we dislike sitting in them. But, why then has nothing been done to rectify this situation? ~ We students are really angry at this. We're stuck in courses that we don't Uke and/or that are over- crowded. S()mething must be done here. Mterall, we could have gone to Williams, Hamilton or Colgate. ~ ~ LETTERS Skellar Wants You! To the editor; We all know the story: no drinking, no social life. Right? So, I want to propose a question to the students that do the socializing: Do you really go out on most Friday and Saturday nights with the ex- press purpose of drinkiing? Let's say there were two places to· spend Saturday night at.Union. One of these places had a dingy appearance, no music, hardly any people, and (luckily J sold alcohol. The other place had a friendly atmosphere, great music, lots of y6ur friends-and new people to meet-but did not serve alcohol. I can say for myself, and I think for many people that when I go out with friends on the weekend we usually want a nice atmosphere · with lots of people where we can hang out and. have fun. Sure there are sometimes, when the week has been long or an exam has been really tough, when it's nice to have a few beers with friends. But what I want to point out to people is that that's NOT always the· case. And what the campus has to now turn its attention towards isn't its lack of alcohol, but its need to re-establish a campus social life. Think about it. Do you want to spend the rest of your time at Union-whether it's four months or four year§- hanging out in a friend's room or talking in front of West (the big social event of this past weekend) every Friday and Saturday night. The biggest problem 'is that people aren't willing to get involved with the social life on campus when, in their estimation, there isn't one. But if you're going to wait until the social life on campus is great to get involved, nothing will ever change~ A \social life\ NEEDS PEOPLE. Many people on campus have been working hard to put social events of all sorts on campus, but in order for them to provide enjoyment they need an attendance! And what about the Skellar? What was great about it before? Why did we go? Sure, maybe to drink-hut what about good music, ~pinball, popcorn, and most importantly, to see people, to hang out with our friends, to meet their friends, to have a good time. The Skellar is still open!!! The juke box and the pinball machines are waiting for us (maybe we can even. get our popcorn. machine back!) The most important thing missing is the people. The Skellar will also be greeting us with improvements in the near future: more diverse food and drinks and live en- tertainment on occasion. other possibilities? Other schools in the same situation have put board games (chess, checkers, backgammon and Trivial Pursuit) and campus musicians into their non-alcoholic 'bars'. We're the only one's who limit the possibilitJes. Show up and have fun, and Union will once again have somewhere to hang out and 'socialize'. So many people are com· plaining about ,how boring the campus has become. If all we do is complain, it will stay that way. I challenge every person that reads this letter to go out on campus this weekend. Fill the Skellar! I dare you! ! And if anyone has any ideas, or would like to help in any way, speak to Mrs. Marra. She'd love to hear from you. See ya at the Skellar! Sincerely, LisaStark, '86 Students Shut Out ·To the editor, VVhat ever happened to the 13: 1 student-faculty ratio we were promised? We were lead to believe that this ratio would ins'Ure us· smaller classes and' more individual attention from our professors. It is now ap- parent that this is not the case. For instance, an upper level required math class containing twelve people last year now has an enrollnient of twenty-five. This problem is not unique to any one department but has affected every department at Union. Not only are we forced to ta) )ke classes that are over enrolled, but these classes are chosen on the basis of availability. In other words, instead of taking what one needs or wants-to take one is forced to select a course simply because it is open. Thus, students with genuine interest A II letters to the editor · must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters must . be signed but names will be withheld upon request. LeHers to the ·editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis in a subject are shut out. As a result, there are a good portion of students who find themselves at the end of the first week of classes without a third course. Not only is this a burden on the stltdent, \but also on the professor. The professor is teaching overenrolled classes which necessarily dictates how he or she teaches the course. For example, courses that normally concentrate on written assignments and class discussion must be reworked to service double or' triple the optimtun number of students. Also, the professors are now put in the uncomfortable p()Sition of ·turning away interested students or, worse still, ad- mitting yet another student to his-her already overcrowded classroom. Although it is now too late to alter the situation for winter term, the problem should be addressed and rectified so that it does not reoccur in the spring. Meg Gorman '88 Anne Mauboussin '88 Penni Morganstein '87 Rachel Siegel '87 Kim Silvers '88

- .... 1e m is JS 1e it al It le ll ll It .s e h ' '• r :I r l .• CONCORDTENSIS, January 16, 1986 Page 13 (JJ~~t~ntrbirnsis Foun.kd al lfmon College 1817 ------------ -------- Lighten Up Those of us who worked over the winter break learned one very important thing: we must enjoy these college days, because when they are over, things will probably get tougher. The ad- ministration's policy in regard to the new purchase age has been set and we are already feeling the im- pact of this in just the first week. Several issues must be addressed here. First: this policy, it seems, will affect our fun at Union College. Second: the college administration, the IFC, fraternities andsororities, and student affairs must come up with many alter- natives for student campus life. If this doesn't hap- pen, Union College will become a five-day-a-week place, where students leave to enjoy weekends away and bars off-campus. By alternatives, we mean more than just Freihoffer's baked goods in the Skellar. Third: it is a very sad commentary on the student body of this school when, as a result of the purchase age change, a number of letters to the editor on this page attack the college and the administration for not offering enough to the students. Is this just coin- cidental? It looks as if the purchase age change is an attack on the social life on this campus, the likes of which have never been seen here at Union. However, there are a lot of quality people at this school. We can all pull through this together and make Union an exciting place to be all the time! Of Course It's bad enough that Union Colleg.e students pay the outrageous prices we do to attend school here. But, 'they\ tell us it's because we attend a private, elite institution of higher learning. And besides, our parents will soon forget their anger after the last loan payment is made. The College needs to charge these prices in order to keep pace with those other colleges we 'like\ to compare ourselves to: Williams, Hamilton, Colgate, etc. So, we go on. We ignore our frustration at the finances for the sake of our intellectual development. But, we should question: are we getting a return on our investment? We are paying to go to a small college, one where faculty accessibility and small class size together command this high price. However, we are no longer in this situation. Many of us were shut out of the courses we wanted (and needed) and, to exacerbate the problem, most of us are enrolled in classes of 30 or 40 people. These are classes where it's merely impossible to even say \hello\ to one's professor much less have a bit of personal contact. It's frustrating mainly, but it's also quite sad. We carne to Union so we could have that contact that, we believed, would enrich our lives. We don't want to be nwnbers. If this is what we had wanted, we could have attended a state university and just blended into the crowd. The problem stems from the fact that the teaching load was cut from seven courses per term per professor to six. That's great. We'd love for the scholars of Union College to have more time for their endeavors. However, no additional teaching positions have been created since that time and we now find that there are approximately 200 (1 X No. of professors) less courses from which to choose. Who is to blame for this situation that has gotten so out of hand? Surely, we blame the ''decision-makers'' (i.e.-the administration and the Board of . Trustees). But, we also cannot overlook putting some of the blame on the faculty itself. We're sure they dislike teaching a class of 30 people as much as we dislike sitting in them. But, why then has nothing been done to rectify this situation? We students are really angry at this. We're stuck in courses that we don't like and/or that are over- crowded. Something must be done here. Mterall, we could have gone to Williams, Hamilton or Colgate. LETTERS Skellar Wants You! To the editor, We all know the story: no drinking, no social life. Right? So, I want to propose a question to the students that do the socializing: Do you really go out on most Friday and Saturday nights with the ex- press purpose of drinking? Let's say there were two places to spend Saturday night at Union. One of these places had a dingy appearance, no music, hardly any people, and (luckily) sold alcohol. The other place had a friendly atmosphere, great music, lots of your friends-and new people to meet-but did not serve alcohol. I can say for myself, and I think for many people that when I go out with friends on the weekend we usually want a nice atmosphere with lots of people where we can hang out and have fun. Sure there are sometimes, when the week has been long or an exam has been really tough, when it's nice to have a few beers with friends. But what I want to point out to people is that that's NOT always the case. And what the campus has to now turn its attention towards isn't its lack of alcohol, but its need to re-establish a campus social life. Think about it. Do you want to spend the rest of your time at Union-whether it's four months or four years- hanging out in a friend's room or talking in front of West (the big social event of this past weekend) every Friday and Saturday night. The biggest problem 'is that people aren't willing to get involved with the social life on campus when, in their estimation, there isn't one. But if you're going to wait until the social life on campus is great to get involved, nothing will ever change. A \social life\ NEEDS PEOPLE. Many people on campus have been working hard to put social events of all sorts on campus, but in order for them to provide enjoyment they need an attendance! And what about the Skellar? What was great about it before? Why did we go? Sure, maybe to drink-but what about good music, pinball, popcorn, and most importantly, to see people, to hang out with our friends, to meet their friends, to have a good time. The Skellar is still open! ! ! The juke box and the pinball machines are waiting for us (maybe we can even get our popcorn machine back! ) The most important thing missing is the people. The Skellar will also be greeting us with improvements in the near future: more diverse food and drinks and live en· tertainment on occasion. Other possibilities? Other schools in the same situation have put board games (chess, checkers, backgammon and Trivial Pursuit) and campus musicians into their non-alcoholic 'bars'. We're the only one's who limit the possibilities. Show up and have fun, and Union will once again have somewhere to hang out and 'socialize'. So many people are com- plaining about .how boring the campus has become. If all we do is complain, it will stay that way. I challenge every person that reads this letter to go out on campus this weekend. Fill the Skellar! I dare you! ! And H anyone has any ideas, or would like to help in any way, speak to Mrs. Marra. She'd love to hear from you. See ya at the Skellar~ Sincere!}, Lisa Stark, '86 Students Shut Out To the editor, VVhat ever happened to the 13:1 student-faculty ratio we were promised? We were lead to believe that this ratio would insure us smaller classes and more individual attention from our professors. It is now ap- parent that this is not the case. For instance, an upper level required math class containing twelve people last year now has an enrollment of twenty-five. This problem is not unique to any one department but has affected every department at Union. Not only are we forced to tal )ke classes that are over enrolled, but these classes are chosen on the basis of availability. In other words, instead of taking what one needs or wants-to take one is forced to select a course simply because it is open. Thus, students with genuine interest All letter§ to the edl tor must be typed and sub- mitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publicat- ion. All letters most be signed but names will be withheld upon request. letters to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis in a subject are shut out. As a result, there are a good portion of students who find themselves at the end of the first week of classes without a third course. Not only is this a burden on the student, ·but also on the professor. The professor is teaching overenrolled classes which necessarily dictates how he or she teaches the course. For example, courses that normally concentrate on written assignments and class discussion must be reworked to service double or triple the optimum number of students. Also, the professors are now put in the uncomfortable position of turning away interested students or, worse still, ad- mitting yet another student to his-her alreadv overcrowded classroom. · Although it is now too late to alter the situation for winter term, the problem should be addressed and rectified so that it does not reoccur in the spring. Meg Gorman '88 Anne Mauboussin '88 Penni Morganstein '87 Rachel Siegel '87 Kim Silvers '88 Editors•in .. Cbief Sarah Calderini, Jay Grossman News Editors Jan Baran, Maureen Caleman Features Editors Mickey Bradley, LeeAnn Schmidt Commentary Page Editor Greg Fay Arts Editol'S Debbie Albert, Tod Dimmick Campus Page Editors Lisa Marzilli, Wendy Zimmerman Sports EditGr Charlie Slotnik Advertising Editors Debbie Rose, Ellen Slipp, Lauren Sobel Assoc. Adv. Editor Amy Rosenkrantz Business Managers Keith Conklin, Nanty Grundman Photo Editor Dave Gruber Associate Photo Editor Stuart Odel:l Sports Photo Editor . Ingrid Koch Subscriptions Editor Bill Fenstermaker Typist JUlie Steinberg Staff: Peter Agricola, Rich Allen, John Bruce, Lisa Foley, Michael Glass, Debbie Gollin, Dave Gulliver, Kim Hancock, Monique. Harrison, Andy . Hodgkin, ChriStine Hong. Jane Kissel, Beth Levine, Eric Lipman, Doug Lloyd, Cathy Markes, Joanne McAndrews, Penni Morganstein, Nick Piccirillo, Howie Podolsky, Judy price, Laura Shapiro, KavenSheba11i, Conrad ·ratge, Amy Walsh. CONCORD1ENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office: Susquehanna .Publications, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSIS is subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and American C()llege Syndicate. Office Telephone-{518) 37o-.6155

y Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, January 16, 1986 .·LETTERS . . - . . - - ·-. - - Angry Student Complains Union Social- Life Murdered To the Editor: As a senior here at Union College, I have a number of complaints and suggestions that I would like to address. These problems hc;lve been building for a number of years, but W1- fortunately up to this point, I have chosen to grumble to myself rather than openly voice them to the , whole college community. We students at Union pay $9000 each year for tuition alone and 0ver $13,000 per year if one includes all the additional costs. Over the time I have spent at Union, each year we have had an increase in the cost of our education, without an in- crease in the quality of life or education. I do not know who is in charge of financial planning, but how could anyone spend over $12,000 for renovations of a pub that a year after its com- pletion would be torn down anyway? Wouldn't that money have been better used for educational purposes, such as. hiring an extra full-time professor in any of the un- derstaffed departments. Not just stop-gap professors, hired f(Jr one year to fill vacancies, but professors hired so they know that their job is secure if they perform well. Speaking of planning, Dean Mammola, whose idea was it to close the student center and the Alumni gymnasium at the same time? With the Skellar closing at nine o'clock now, there is no place for students to gather and relax. Your arranging for the use of the YMCA's facilities was a very good idea considering that their facilities are better than anything Union has had for many years.· But do you expect that students should have to walk down to the facilities if they do not have access to cars? How about arranging for a regular shuttle service for students who do not have cars? What happened to mail for- warding over the break'? Was the school too poor to hire an extra .person for $3.35 per hr. so that the mail could be for- warded home? Did someone in administration think that one persoP could truly handle the . job that it takes six people to do during the term? I should send you the extra service charges on my credit bills, not to mention others' missed job or graduate school opportunities. This is just another example of this college administration's total lack of regard for student's needs. On the educational front, my personal situation holds true for many of the students 1 have talked with. I am now enrolled in an upper level course {Bio 162) that was designed to be taught to thirty students and now has an enrollment of over sixty people and is located in a classroom designed for forty ot fifty. I am not paying over $13,000 per year to have only four choices of courses in my major. This is not a problem caused by faculty on sab- baticals, this is a problem caused by poor planning of the administration's hiring of faculty. . '. ' When I first came to Union, I was full of hope for learning, now I am resigned to being in a school whose educational op- portunities and social op- portunities have been ·eroded away by an administration which is more concerned with making money than student's needs and concerns. To the Editor; The Barron;s book «l( colleges rates our home, Union College in Schenectady, NY with two telephones out of five possible. This was the social life rating we received prior to the drinking age going up to 21 and the new campus drinking policy came out. Granted the drinking age being .raised is a law we all have to contend with on cam- pus, but the measures taken by the Dean were actions that may be seen as the college castrating itself. We had two telephones but will probably receive negative three phones in the next issue of Barron's. Prior to December 1, 1985 the college campus social activities con- sisted of fraternitymsorority . parties or an evening at the Dean Mammola, you and the Skellar. I can honestly say that administration you work for~re the pub, or what Union College not here in spite of the students. cpose to call the pub was an You are here because of the absolute disgrace as a social students. Some of those gathering place: I would students do not want to muddle estimate that less than 10 through the winter duldrwns, percent of the college com- but rather have both an munity visited the pub for enriching educational and evening gathering. As far as off- social experience. ., campus activities go, there are Unfortunately with much sincerity Allan L. Markus ('86) . a .few small bars that people frequented, but nothing com- parable to a Main Street in Saratoga or Syracuse, or a college town like that of Cornell. insult to those who are 21 years af age. Why should they be forced to go off-campus to socially drink with their friends who all attend Union College and live on or near the campus. The other social option that Union students had was to at- tend a fraternity or sorority Union Needs Spirit I There was a very limited choice · · of social activities available to Union students, but the new campus alcohol policy has limited a very minimal choice ·party .. Now, according to the party policy, parties can't be larger than 50 people. I agree that Union College is an academically challenging school, but to keep the students from socializing through a party policy too, seems a bit overwhehning .. Is this the in· tention of our dictator-to keep each of us in our own solitary confinement for four years of our lives, supposedly the 1 'four best years of our life?\ I have also beeri thinking about what West Beach· and Camp Union are going to be like. I'm not quite sure they will be the same fun activities that they have been for the past_ years. After all, if you are old enough to drink a beer, you won't be allowed to do it outside. Since we've been back to school the new alternative social events are overwhelming me. I think Union College ha,s gone a bit too far with its new Alcohol and Drinking Policies. Please reconsider-the alternatives that students have are possibly worse than going to parties (over 50 people) o.n campus and hanging out at the Skellar and Pub. Students of age will go out, drink and then drive. Those underaged, will resort to drugs such as cocaine and mushrooms, which are far from unknown on this campus already. Another alternative is for underaged students to drink at home and to drive to a club or social place to' try and get in. Union College students need a place to spend time. We should not exist on campus as if we were in solitary· confinement! Dear Sir: Union College, a very. strong academic institution, with a reputation for having professors more interested in teaching students than publishing. A beautiful campus studded with magnificent ar- chitecture. A football team that is undefeated, at the top levels of Eastern and National rankings, sporting a stingy defense and a fine offense led by a Houdini quarterback, and destined for post season play for the thit·d year running. But where is the Hoopla? Where is the spirit? Football Saturday is not a time for just measured applause and cheering. It's a time for ex- citement .and inspired cheering that will dr·ive your team to efforrts beyond their known capabilities. As the parent of an applicWlt for next September's freshman class, I was happy that my son had chosen Homecoming Weekend to learn more about Union. Everything we learned confirmed our expectations that Union is a winner that produces winners. The Homecoming parade was fun. Some of the floats showed great imagipation and effort. It was college fun. Here comes the band. Good sound, good ·looking, very precise, but it was not Union's; too bad. On to the game, Great crowd. Great expectations. Union cheerleaders. Then a cheer. \G- O-O-D Good! That's what we are.\ Bad! Not the cheerleaders, (they're great) but the cheers. All the cheers sound the same. Only the cherrleaders cheer. not the fans. Union needs cheers. Cheers appropriate for good plays, bad plays, to razz the opposition, to rub in the score. Cheers that inspire par- ticipation. Cheers inspire teams. And how about some male cheerleaders? What about Friday night pep rally's? Cheerleaders should pump up the student body, especially freshmen, to set the spirit for Saturday's game. My wife tells me that music • makes the party. She's right. A football team n~eds a band. They go together. A college needs songs. Fight songs, drinking songs, sentimental songs. If Union has songs, we didn't hear them. A band, school songs, cheerleaders and \Push em back\ cheers make for hoopla and spirit which create inspired team performances, inspired fan participation and memories that help inspire alumni ($). Great organizations are greater with spirit. Peters and Waterman's \In Search of Excellence\ illustrates how orchestrated hoopla helps the Hewlett Packard's and IBM's of the world. Colleg~ hoopla is just as important to the best colleges. If you agree with my ap- praisals, only inspired action .will make it happen. Some of you must accept the challenge to organize the nucleus that will spearhead the effort. I hope that I can attend next year's Homecoming as a Union parent and see the pride that Union students and alums carry inside. Let's get up for the game! Enthusiastically. Pnion Dad (Hopefully) to almost no choice at all. The decision to make the Skellar and Pub ·non-alcoholic is outrageous. Almost every other state in the Union has a drinking age of 21 and most schools do have an on-campus place to purchase alcohol. Why Union chose to \dry up\ both of its bars is beyond my com- prehension. Sincerely,. Stricter carding procedures could have been enforced if the school was so ;llraid of under- aged students drinking. Not serving alcohol at these two places on campus is also an Name withheld What Do You Want To Get Out Of.Your Education At Union? 1 nformal· discussions between faculty members ' and students wi II be h.e-ld on Thursday. Jan. 16 at 9:00 p·:m. on the Floors of the Residence Halls It's a great way to see professors outside of class, and a great way to 1toice your concerns • • .. - - If gov~ eKpl trad that the) you Yt NeVI this vote Cuo: recE Alb: bee' gov dec< in al offi< pot€ Pre one clos belit Tt cons alcol his 1 raise chas efft:lc sam in ex: avai and· allo'< wine Yorl whic

... . CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 Page 15 .View From Right Field ByPAULSCHOP If you were .asked to reelect a governor :who has consistently expressed a program of con- tradictions and failed policies that hurt. even the people that they are intended to help, would you vote for him? Yet that is exactly what most New Yorkers seem ready to do this year, when the state's voters will decide if MariQ_. Cuomo's administration should receive another four years in Albany. Cuomo has managed t() become the most popular governor in almost tw() decades, and for the first time in almost a quarter century, the office is being held by a potential major party Presidential nominee. When one examines his record closely, this seems hard t() believe. The first Cuomo in- consistency is over his stand on alcohol.and driV:ing. For most of his term he has crusaded to.· raise New York's legal pur- chasing .age to 21, wbich took effect last December 1. At the same time, he has . made inexpensive Jiquor more readily available to underage drinkers, . and to the public in general, by allowing supermarkets to sell wine coolers made with New York grown grapes, an act which, by barring wine coolers made with grapes growri out- side of the state, is un~ constitutional. A second inconsistency in- volves capit.al punishment and abortion. Cuomo believes that his personal · religious views should not be imposed on others; for this reason he supports the pro-choice movement. On almther issue involving · premature death, however, he feels free to impose his moral views on the public; for this reason he opposes capital punishment. How can his personal opinion on one issue differ so much from his public view 'on the issue; while on a related issue, he feels free to invoke his conscience? Why does he feel it is justified that a potential Einstein or Mother Teresa be put to death before birth, while the state's tax- payers spend millions to house· such murderers as David Berkowitz and Mark David Chapman, . the infamous \Son of Sam\ and Lennon's killer, respectively. In addition to these in- consistencies, the Cuomo ad- ministration has continued to support policies which harm all members of the \family of New York,\ the strongest and the weakest members included. An example of Cuomo's failed liberal policies is the New York City mass transit system. Commuters from Queens (Where Mr. Cuomo seems to forget he comes from): and ·eastern Long Island must subsidize the MTA at the rate of $3.50 for a round trip drive into Manhattan (or the equivalent in Thruway tolls between Harriman and the Syrac.11Se area) which is. literally throwing money down a bole. An AAA sponsored study sbows that tolls across the East H:iver would be about 70 cents without the subsidy for the same round trip. Meanwhile, the bridges and tunnels, not to mention the highways, ·need repairs desparately, while the service underground continues tn be inefficient at best and dangerous at Worst. When will Cuomo learn that this is n()t the way to run a transit system? And when will the voters elect someone who supports alter- natives , to such outrageous nonsense? VVe have seen the in- . consistencies and · failed solutions of the Cuomo ad· ministration. 'The only logical conclusion one can draw fr()m his past performance is to Elect someone who is consistent and consistently conservative as well. May the voters of New York heed this warning and save themselves in 1986 fr()rn four more years of inefficiency and doubletalk, and in so doi:ng, save the nation from a similar fate in 1988. so· her (sO'ber), adj. Characterized by self ... control or sanity; reasonable; rational. SOBER IS SMART. Now is the time to start thinking about drinking in a whole new light. Drinking doesn't make you cool. It's not a guarantee of success. It's not even a prerequisite to having fun. The fact is booze doesn't reaily get you anywhere. Think about it. SOBER IS SMART A public service message from the New York State Division Qf Alcoholism and Alcohol Abuse and your campus newspaper. COMMENTARIES BaCk to Basics By DARRYL BROWN WASHINGTON The American Philological Association · came to Washington between holidays the last week of December, and the fellow who should have been their favorite son ended up less than a wallflower. He wasn't even invited. · The leading society for classics scholars in America voted to not ask Education Secretary Bill Bennett to speak, even though he has used his position to push for more classical studies in American classrooms. Bennett touts basics in education, and he .put our money where his mouth is when, as head of the National Endowment for the Humanities, he slanted a lot of funding toward classical studies and traditional veins of scholarship. . The APA objects to Bennett's version ·Of classics studies because he neglects, even shuns, such topics as slavery, racism and the subjugation of women in antiquity. He seems to give little emphasis to feminist scholarship and the study of minorities. One scholar from Vanderbilt University says she thinks Bennett sup- ports the classics \as a bulwark against much of what he doesn't like in the modern world\· . ' another ·says Bennett tends to ignore that brilliant classical thinkers \were very primitive, too. They used torture routinely to extract information from slaves. Women had no rights whatsoever.\ By skipping such facets of classics scholarship, a Maryland University professor said, Bennet's advocacy of the classics \doesn't really represent what is of con- temporary importance in our field.\ Many scholars believe such important areas of research as black and women's studies are basic because they have basic lessons to teach. The first argument always made for a liberal arts education (by . Bennett among others), is that it is valuable for its own sake, it makes a student a better per- son. To some, including many members of the APA, examining our history of racism and sexism-in the United States and in the West, going back to the Greeks-along with the substantial contributions of oppressed groups such as American blacks teaches · a primary lesson. Liberal arts is supposed to give people some lessons of history so that we are not condemned to repeat them. There are few lessons we need to learn more thoroughly than the horror, indignity and waste of prejudice and oppression. Just ask William F. Buckley, the first scribe of contemporary political conservatism. This is a man who swears he deserves- has earned-the limo, yacht and annual Switzerland excursions. But he claims a basic lesson from Claude Brown's Manchild in the Promised Land. Simply from that book he says he realizes the experience of Harlern and how the other half lives. He couldn't get the same thing from Plato or Jefferson, both of whom lived in slave- holding societies that disen- franchised women. If literature is powerful enou~h to make a pampered white patrician feel some of the ghetto, it deserves an important place in the curriculum. That imperative moral worth ()f liberal studies is what makes the humanities requisite and -1 urgent for every generation. In college frequently opted to concentrate more on academics than political activism, and I had to justify that to activist friends. My argument was that the liberal arts can and should enliven the conscience and teach people the same moral lessons tnat we try to orrng to their attention with protests and petitions. Sometimes it takes some picketing and pestering to get action for a good cause, but we also do great good if we instill values of justice and equality, and the lessons of prejudice and injustice, through education, so we'll need less protesting in the future. Mr. Bennett, an advocate of moral education, should agree. That is. a key difference between the back-to-basics of conservatives and progressives. Conservatism is supposed to take the best from the past and preserve it. But we still learn from the past to improve the present, which may mean the change of some faulty past policies-more the ground of progressives. The arguing starts when we try to decide what should be saved and what should be replaced. But as our nation has changed to condemn racist attitudes we need to supplement our canon of basics to include, say, Manchild in the Promised Land and studies of racism in Rome or the seamy side of ancient Greece. Bennett and some others don't seem ready to add such things, but those lessons are part of the contemporary importance of classical studies just as is Plato's Laws. They are basic.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, Januar.y 16, 1986 SCHOLARSHIPS -The Women's Press Club of New York State, Inc. is seeldng applicants for its annual scholarship award of $500 from thOse wishing to resmne studies in communications but who are unable to obtain financial support. . The application deadline is March 14, 1986. Forms are available by writing to Margaret · Chretien, Vice- President, Women's Press . Club, care of DCJS, Executive Park Tower, Albany, NY 12203 or in the Financial Aid Office. Applic;:mts must beN ew York residents, and enroll{ld in an area communications-or-relat- ed program. Preference will be given to women enrolled in either a part or full-time communications or related studies. Applicants must demonstrate long-rang~ goals and their potential con- tributions to the com- munications field. The Women's Press Club of New York State, Inc. will ob- serve its 2oth anniversary year in 1986. Organized by a group of women journalists, the club now includes in its membership professional communicators in the print and electronic media, public relations and other related fields. The club has over 140 members and Nancy J. Curran of Schenectady is the President. -The Tri-Delta Scholarship deadline ·has been extended to January 31, 1986. You may pick up applications in the Financial Aid Office, Becker Hall, 2nd floor. -Announcing The Thomas F. Purner, Jr. Scholarship- JWJiors who are planning to pursue the five- year combined degree program with lAM are eliwble for $8000 in scholarship assistance through the. Purner Scholarship-Fellowship. The award in senior year is $3000 (based on financial need) and will continue as a $5000 fellowship in the 5th year. If you are thinking about staying the extra year to complete a Master's degree, please contact Ellen Frishberg in the Finan- cial Aid Office (x 6123) and-or Prof. Lambrinos in Bailev Hall (x 6253) before the end of Winter term, for further information. FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS -The Epilepsy Foundation ot America announces the Mary Lilty Memorial Fellowshtp awarded in the amount of $1500 to a student of vocational rehabilitation for work on a three-month epilepsy project. Additional fellowships are awarded in the same amoWit to students of other fields of study in the social sciences. Application forms and guidelines are available upon request from: · The Epilepsy FoWldation of America 4351 Garden City Dr. Landover, MD 20785 (301) 459-3700 Applications must be received by February 28, 1986 for funding during the 1986 year. Other grants, felloqships, and professorships are also available for research and work in the field of epilepsy. More information on these funds is available from the same ad- dress for 1987-88 research. -General Electric Company will be conducting interviews on January 28 and 29 for their Swruner Internship in Finance and Accounting for minority sophomores and juniors. Interested students shOuld sign-. up for an interview time slot on a first-come, first-served basis on January 21st-8:00-5 p.m. in the CDC. -AT & T will have an in- formation session to discuss NEED MONEY? Candlelight Dining in Hale House Needs You: Waiters/Waitresses Host/Hostess Checkers - Counter people -No experience necessary- There will be a meeting to discuss scheduling on · Wed., Jan. 22 at 6:30p.m. in Hale House If you are interested, but cannot attend, contact Joann at 393-0612 by W·ed. what AT & T has to offer for employment, both full time and summer. They will discuss the break up of the company and what it means. This .information session is open to ail students interested in AT & T and will.be held February 17 at 2:00p.m. in SS016. Freshmen, sl)phomores, juniors and seniors are invited to this session. -General Dynamics will interview for summer em- ployment any junior with a major in CS, EE, ME, CE, MT or AM on February-6 if there is remaining interview time slots on the winter schedules. First- come, first-served sign ups will be January 27, 8:00 a.m.~5:00 p.m. in the cDC. -Naval Underwater SysteQlS will have an information session for underclassmen with a major in EE or ME for summer em- ployment on February 26 at 9:00 , a.m. in the CDC. Sign up in· the Orange Workshop book in the CDC to attend. -Procter and Gamble Manufacturing ·will hold in- terviews for juniors with a major in Chemistry, ME, EE,· CE or Industrial Economics for summer internships. First~ come, first-served ~ign ups will be Monday, January 27, 8:00 a.m.-5:()0 p.m. in the CDC. -There are several com- panies which are holding in- formation sessions for seniors who are interested in full-time employment. This would be an ideal opportunity for un- derclassmen to meet with a . company representative and discuss summer employment and internships. Come to the CDC to get a list of comp~-nies cnducting these information sessions. · CLUB NE.WS Newman Meeting & Social- Monday, January 20th at 8 p.m., 2nd floor Conference Room, Whitaker House. Pleaee use back door. ,. . Folk Group-All sitlgers and musucians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church to rehearse. Newman Retreat-At St.'· Anthony-on-Hudson, Rensse-. laer. We leave Friday, January 17th at 5 and return Saturday, January 18th by 5. The theme is Relationships: 9od, Myself and others. Donation of $5 When you register with Sr. Joan. Bishop Hubbard to Visit- Most Reverend Howard J. Hubbard, D.D., Bishop of Albany has accepted the in- vitation of the Newman Club to be celebrant and to preach at the 7:30 p.m. Mass at St. John the Evangelist Church on Sunday, January 19th. Following the Mass the Newman Club will host a pizza and pepsi reception for the _ Bishop on the Campus in the Old Chapel Dining Hall. Faculty, Staff, Students and their families are invited to greet and talk with the Bishop. Newman Cabaret-Thursday, January23rd at10 p.m. to raise money .for Father Bruce Rit- ter's work at Covenant House. -The Film Committee presents: January 17-19 A View to a Kill at 7:30 and 10. Tuesday, January 21 Time ·Bandits at 7, 9, and 11. Tickets available in the Old Chapel for $1. German Flln1 Series Haus ohue Huter (House Without Guardian) .based onthe novel by Henrich Boll, prominent German writer and Fobel Prize winner. The film play~ in a catholic town in the Rhineland in the nineteen fif- ties. Monday., January 27 at the Language Laboratory, Humanities QlQ at 3:30 p.m. Admission Free. CLASSIF!EDS -Campus RepreseQtatives wanted to sell Spring 'Break Trip~ to Bennuda, Bahamas, Flortda & more. Highest commissions paid plus free travel. Call 800-252-8747 (Nation-wide)· 800-341-8747 (MASS ONLY). PROFESSIONAL TYPING- Business teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call anytime, 399-4656. We're Still Here r ~~~~,-~ l ~l 1....' :_j \ J ! ___ [-~-- -----1 Coming Soon Pizza oven Mini grocery ·Belgian waHies Fresh fried chicken fountain items Along·with our regular menu items .. ----------------A FLASHBACK---------------- Spring Break In Ft. Lauderdale at the Oceanfront Holiday 1 nn Beach! $259/pp. quad. Limited space available. BEACHCOMBER TOURS, INC. 1325 Millersport Highway, Williamsville, NY 14221 (716) 632-3723 -. YEAH- A LOi OF RE!:.PONSI&MLnY! BUT 1 Tl·HNK Q.W~)Rt. MATURE ENOUGH TO HANDLE. :r.'T p

-- - e Rit- B'ouse. nit tee ~View Time 'ickets ,el for ; House onthe Boll, !rand ~ film in the ~n fif- at the tory, p.m. tives reak rnas, best free 8747 8747 ~G-­ •le to !Ses, mds. ime, - CLASSIHEDS. ....:.AT & T Labs has re~cheduled Its oncampus . recruiting date from Tuesday, February 18 to Thursday, February 6. Any students who are listed on the on-campus recruiting schedules should sign up for closed sign ups for Weeks C&D. -AT&T Bell Labs and AT&T Information Sy~tems will need \official transcripts\. Please bring your officiaL transcript to the CDC when you sign up for your interview time slot. Are You Bored? Want a fun and interesting hobby which you and your friends can enjoy? How about the following: D.'J. Newscaster Sportscaster . All this and more take place at WRUC 89.7 fm. If you are interested in joining the staff, Call Scott at X6944 for further information. Old Chapel-Hille House workers needed. Flexible hours. Contact Manager-Asst. Mgr. PERSONALS Scbmittee, Get that man off that dirty little mind of yours! Ask me to help?! O.K.? Love, Fred GUT.Z,....WRelax, tomorrow all you have to worry about is the interview (and your resume, and ·your Thesis, and Management, and your future, and life, and claus) · Isn't life great? We will tape your favorite TV or Sports program. Call 372- . 7123. Pinky, Richy, Rhineland, Don't drink the punch! Just kidding, don't pay any attention to the comments resulting from my inexperience! Love, Fred To People from the farm: Saturday night was great! But remember . . . NO MUCKLING! From, the two experts Attention all hoofers: Anyone interested in stap dancing call x6576. Your mother is not here- there is no need to smoke in the bathroom! If you must smoke, go to U. of Maryland. Signed;' the ruimer.up of the 191J4..,l985 Backgammon MarathC?)l for Charity. / Hi L.T., You're long overdue for a backrub! (Beep) Webbie, Where are you?? And why weren't we invited? Signed, us Dene, Welcome back! I missed you! Little sis Get Psyched for the Beat·s vs. The· Patriots CONCORDIENSIS, January 16,1986 Page 17 Dwag, Happy 22nd Birthday! You make me very happy. Love ya . .. Sexy S. To Matt: Thanx for putting tip with me . .. I sure was a beginner! · From the ski bunny Hang in there, Phi Sig Pledges! It .won't be long now. Love, The Little Sisters. Slut women---let's go and get \them\ Hey Mamaluc Put my robe on right! Larry Rosenberg wants to take you to SDT formal. SKIDILIADA- Velma Congratulations classic DG Pledges-'The indefinite pledge period is over! We psyched you're finally sister~! .Fred, Have you picked up your car from the lodge? How long were you really there for? DEmThiaLyn's back! Whoever is blasting classical music to us, PLEASE identify yourself! Dthia Rebecca, Karen & Betsy- Welcome hack! I missed you! Here's to winter term! Q Crusher~Congratulations! Let's celebrate! Q GO BEARS! Uhhh . . . Bob, I'll take \Annoying Parasites\ for 100, please. I'd like to spin, please. I'd like to buy a vowel. I'd like to solve the puzzle. Joanne M. . When can I cash in on that backrub?? wHr.r-?t No sooz£! -nJ R tJ -rlif: Git R. A 'i<()U 1\lD / t{E.Y . - U('J 10\' ffA s 'To o ~ ft-K I tJ MANY A f(E.A S . J I.Jf,U- fiRS/ TiJ~6 ... II'· ) •• , u 1\'\ ~ w£L.!.- ~ s rt-r HOME! lti~ ME HoME/ -<tAH ? c.1 k£ wwrr-? / · MEAtJ Wt/iL-E..- ..... BA\k AT 1\\H IZ. RfWcJ·l j v;EJ...L J P~5M ~ 1 HotJ S ;rl ~ <E:il-loa L ~ 1 ~ 6 • wf.LL {/.£11f'J - c.tJtJ~UcrrorJ IS (y:)IN6 w£u..., 11-lf.. c.tV1f'V5 WILL VE.RY stx'rJ g£, AMflOZ.IN 6 I i'H~ ... u~ .... /YI£. , .. ALL RIGHT.' ... . U)l-1 ~~ f:..- .P 0 \'(ooR 1Nm.iQ3 Lf£? t-c:- Wf..l.L. MY I P-AKENTS /DLP Mf-. ::1 ticJJ -ro .PO / r:£:r -t1:: {2, t ----- :r rl 'u Rlf- -t1-\£:Y HY..rJT J3£:t1£R J DRu6.5. ){ () (j I t<J::._ A: f=VNNV GUY) r [ZJ::$/t] o ! so~ ycJUJ r-Vts Sir 1 ~L-A. H£1-<! ~tuf

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, January 16, 1986 .• TANNING SALON PHONE$: 372-7270 370-373!!$ HOME STYLE PIZZA 1 s.t Visit Freel 7 'Su~· FEATUAING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT GRAND OPENING \. COR. UNION STRE;ET 8r VAN ANTWERP RC. SCI-IENECTAOY, N. Y. &Renanigana Hair Designs ···········••:••················································· • • i PRESTO COIN LAUNDRY : Sign Up by FEB.1 Year Membership 519 Union St. Sch'dy, N.Y. 1 MONTH and : DRY CLEANING i • * STUDE·NT SPECIALS * i A Tannlne:- No bumingl $158° 8 =~9 $30° 0 REG. $39 • • .. • • • *FREE .WASH* (Use 1 Washer Get 2nd f·REE!!) 8-9:00 Mon.-Fri. 8-8:00 Sat. -Sun. • • • • • • .. • • .. ullllmlted visits 312-0007 Convenient··ttours! *SENIORS* If YO·U have not yet had yo~r picture taken for the yearbook, please Contact M-rs.· Marra immediately to make an appointment. Union College Speakers Forum presents GERALD GARDNER An Illustrated His tory of Censorship In America Tuesday, January 28, 19.86 8:00p.m.- Memorial Chapel Censored clips will be s·een from David Bowie, The Rolling Stones, Star Trek, WWII, etc. 1 $2 Students $3 pub I ic Monday,Jan. 20,12:30 P.M. Humanities Faculty Lounge (2nd floor of Humanities Bldg) I.E. F. lunchtime seminar on women in the Curriculum and the Institution TOPIC: How to include the study of women in a revised liberal arts curriculum. Three readings are on reserve in the library reserve room under Women's Research Seminar. Discussion witt be led by Prof. Linda Patrik. ALL ARE INVITED· BRING YOU_R OWN LUNCH unlimited visits • • • • • • Mon.•Frl. 8·8 Sat. 8·8 • ~009 Brc:»adway 381-4243 : : Broadview Plaza - Schenectady : •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• . HOW TO ENRICH YOUR EDUCAnON BY$1,000 A MONTH. ~If you're a math. engineering or physical sciences major, you could be earning $1,000 a month during your junior and senior years. That's $25,000 by graduati~?n. This excellent opportunity is·part of the Navy Nuclear Propu]l)ion Officer Candidate Program. Its one of the most prestigious ways of entering the nuclear field- and rewarding, too. You get. a $3.000 bonus upon entrance into the program. and $3,000 more when you complete your Naval studies. You also receive a year of paid graduate- level training that's the most comprehensive in the world. And you'll acquire expertise with state-of-the-art nuclear reactor and propulsion plant technology. ' PLANT TRIPS. which include a tour of a Nuclear Submarine, are available to qualified students at no cost or obligation. NAVY OFFICER: As aN avy officer. you'll get responsibility and recognition early, on. Your high-level experience and credentials will help make you a leader in one ofthe world's fastest growing industries. In addition to the professional advan- tages, nuclear-trained officers get an unbeatable benefits package. travel opportunities, planned promotions, and a solid salary that can reach as much as $44,000 after five years. Find out more about the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candiqate Program, and make your education start payirtgofftoday. Call Navy Management Programs: (518) 462·6119 (Call collect Mon-Thu until 2::30.) Mike Ogilvie ENGINEERING PROGRAMS NAVY RECRUITING DISTRICT Leo W. O'Brien Federal Bldg. Albany. NY 12207 LEAD THE ADVE·NTURE ·' - • - ( t 1 ( ~ 1 ( t ( c 1 , t I I t

CQNCQRDIENSIS, Januaryl6, 1986 Page 19 By JAY GROSSMAN and DOUGILOYD Congratulations to senior women's basketball player Kim Mangino, who has been chol;len as this week's athlete of the week. Mangino, a tri'-captain of the team hasled the women to a 3-3 record. including . two wins out of their last three. In the last two games, . a 56-48 win over Russell Sage and a 58-43 loss to St. Rose, Mangino was out- standing. • Against St. Rose, she had 8 pts., 13 reboWlds, and 8 steals and in the win over Sage she sparked the Dutchwomen with 18 .pts. and 18 rebounds. The 18 pts. was a game-high for Mangino. So far this season, Mangino has led the team in scoring with an 11.5 points per game average, and also with 6.5 rebounds per game. Mangino is also a starter on the volleyball and. softball teams and is a graduate of Bishop Gibbons high school, here in Schenec- tady. Post·season Honors • • • Continued from page 20 . recoveries, a blocked kick, two pass knock downs, and two and a half sacks worth 13 yards. These numbers are especially impressive since Valente was usually double-teammed at the .. line of scrimmage. Wright, who is a four-year starter, led the team in.tackles in 1985 with 58 first hits, 36 assists and 94 points. He also had a pass interception and three and a half sackes. Earlier this year Wright was selected to the ECAC team. Campanelli, who is also a four-year starter, was the leader of Union's vaunted of- fensive line. Super Bowl XX By PETER AGRICOLA Sports Staff Giants nor the Rams were able to. score a single. ·point. On the offensive side the Bears are led Super Bowl XX promises once again by all-time rushing to be an interesting match up of leade~ .Walter . Paf!on. Payt~n two defensive power houses . the who fm1shed third; m.the NFL m Chicago Bears and the . New· ···rushing this~·l;l~ason also .set England Patriots. The Bears anotherleaguemark by~ush~g who after the eighth week of tbe for one hundred yards m nme season were expected to be straight game~. But. the Be~s where they are now face an are not one ~ens10nal as rn opponent whose fate was un- y~ars past. With quarterb~ck decided until the final week of Jim McMahon and wtde the season. The Bears finished receivers Willie Gault and the regular season with a record Dennis M~innon the . Bears of 11-5 have a legitimate passrng at- . tack to try and defeat the New. The · Bears trademark bas England Patl'iots for their. first been their powerful defense. Super Bowl title .ever. Led by linemen Richard Dent The bears opponent the New and Steve McMichel, England Patriots have had a linebackers Mike Singletary harder_ route to the playoffs and Otis Wilson and safety GarY because. they were the final Fencik, the Bears have._ -Qeen · wildcard thus assuring them Qf able to shut down opposing playing all their playoff games offenses with regularity. The away. Theyhavehadto beat the bears have nine different favorites Jets, Raiders and defensive players score touch- Patriots all at home. The downs this year. In both Bear Patriots are led by all-pro Playoff games neither the linebacker Andre Tippett. Tippett was second in the NFL in sacks this season and is a constant threat to .opposing quarterbacks. The Patriots also have fine cornerback in Ray Clayborne and Fted Marion, ·who· were-.able- tO'-shut...:doWn- Miami's Mark Clayton >8Ild Mark Duper in last weekends AFC Championship . game in Miami. Offensively the Patriots rely mostly on the run. Led by ·Craig James and Tony Collins the Patriots have been able to grind down . opponents throughout the season. The Patriots have inexperienced but gritty Tony Eason at quar- terback. His passing game is helped by deep threat Stanley Morgan and Tony Collins out of the backfield. . The bears are a decided f~lVorite. The only way the patriots- can hope to win is by mixing up their passing game better than in past weeks. The bears are too good against the ' run to be able to beat them by tlie run alone:· · Track Drops Two By ANDY HODGKIN · Sports Staff strong second in the high jump with a jump of G ft. 2 inches and a· first in the pole vault with a The Union men's indoor track leap of 13 feet even. After four team opened their indoor track events the Dutchmen led by a season this past Friday night score of 23-10•10. The Dutchmen with a double loss to Hamilton retained the lead until near the and Williams in the tri-meet end of the meet and were in a action by a score of 60-59-50. · position to pull out a win with Hamilton . prevailed over two good showings in the relays Williams by one point after two but came up short when their close and controversial relay lack of depth at the 400m and races. BOOm relay left them with no Highlighting the Union points in those events. scoring and getting the Dut- Going into the relays the chmen out to an early lead in score was a close 47-52--54 with the meet, was All-American Williams leading by two over Scott Remillard. Remillard was Hamilton. Hamilton took the a double winner in the 35 pound decision in the 4x400 relay with weight and the shot put. He a time of 3:42.9 after a disputed easily outdistanced his closest disqualificatioQ of Williams. competitor in each event with This gave Hamilton the lead to throws.of 54 ft .. 1lf4 inches in the stay as they placed second to 35lb. weight and a toss of <J4·ft. 3 Williams. in· the 4x800· giving inches in the shot put. Rernmard. thein three pomt&-enough to go was backed up in each event oy ·, on to ·win. · · teammate .Scot Stewart who . Outstanding individual placed fourth and third performances were turned in by respectively itl.ea~h ~ven.t .• \' home .. team in the losjng. Wayne Lacy contributed in cause by Rob Mohlar who just the first four events by scoring a came off an injury to win in the 500m event . .Senior Todd Allen had mixed fortunes on Friday as he and the rest of the opening heat of the 400m event got confused at the final lap by a whistle signaling the gun lap. The field thought the race was finished with one lap to go. They were quickly corrected and finished the race. Allen came back in the. 50m. dash and won with a time of 6.1 seconds. Union coach Russ Ebbets stated after the meet things · ha~'t come out as he had hoped adding that lie thought Union could have easily won the meet. Though most of the rwming . events did . not get as many points as he had hoped, he . particularly was disappointed with the distance events knowing that\\'be · ea~ get a bigger. yield from:· that are~. Union continues · their season this coming Friday night at the Memorial Fieldhouse as they play host to tbe University of . Plattsburg . . and. -Colgate University. Qtnncnr~ itns is SPORTS Charlie Slotnik 'Looking at Sports KEY BISCAYNE, FLORIDA~Over· 10,000 New England Patriot fans. descended to Miami last Weekend to watch the Patriots \squish the fish\ 31-14, in the A.F.C. cham~ pionship game, and earned a Super Bowl birth. The Sonesta Beach Hotel in Key Biscayne was the Headquarters for the A.F.C. champions while they were . vacationing in Miami. As a result many Patriot fans flocked to the hotel during the weekend to see their heroes: quarterback Tony Eason running~ack Craig James, linebacker Andre Tippett, and other Patriot players. The Patriot players were the center of attention and were sought after by autograph seekers aU weekend, suprisingly, however, there was one Patriot fan who received more attention than any other player on the team. . Doug Flutie and his wife, Linda made the 1500 mile trip South to root for the Patriots; the team Doug dreamed of playing on while growing up in Natick, Massachusettes. As always, people came up to the Heisman Trophywinner, and shook his hand and asked for his autograph. However, Dou,g was just a spectator this weekend, and did not have the pressure on him that he had 13 months. ago when he led Boston College to victory over the University of Miami with his last second heroic pass to receiver and friend, Gerard Phelan. The last time Doug Flutie was at the Orange Bowl he was on the field leading the Boston College Eagles to touchdown after touchdown while coun· terpart Bernie Kosar was doing the same for the Hurricanes of Miami. But, todily Doug and his wife ·were seated in row 25 of section 21 of the Orange Bowl, which is located just 10 yards below t~e lowest cloud in the sky in the south corner of tne stadium, not far from where Bob Uecker sits when he watches baseball games during beer conunercials. As the players came through the tunnel onto the field, Doug Flutie was physically as far removed from the game as any other person in the Orange Bowt But, mentally, Flutie knew what it felt like to play in such a big game in front of so many people in this stadium. The part time ABC analyst gave his views of the game to those seateti' around him, which in- cluded my father, who was lucky enough to sit in the seat next to him. If Doug Flutie had by-passed the USFL and Donald Trump's Multi-million dollar contract, Flutie would be a rookie in the NFL this season. While Flutie was watching the most important game in the New England Patriot's history, one would have to wonder what was going through his mind. As a boy this is the team Doug dreamed of quarterbacking, and possibly if he had decided to play in the NFL he might have been playing on the Orange Bowl field last Sunday instead of sitting next to my father. However, Flutie, the back-up New Jersey General Quar- terback was content to be in the stand cheering his team to victory. After the game as the Patriots were being surrounded by their loyal fans, Doug Flutie and his wife stood isolated outside the Patriot team· bus talking with injured Patriot's receiver Gerard Pheland and his fian- cee. Most likely they were discussing the Patriot's most recent victory, but perhaps they were reminiscing about a ·similar rainy day at the Orange Bowl ·when. they were surrounded by fans, and not standing away from the action. Ottawa6 Concordia.5 UNION 7 R.I.T. 5 UNION 3 Garnet Scoreboard ICE HOCKEY (5-7) MICRON TOURNAMENT UNION4 UNION 4 Salem st. 2 UNWN3 Hamilton 1 Williams82 UNION 72 UNION 70 UNIOf\1101 UNION 56 St. Rose 58 Hamilton60 Williams 59 Williams 8lV2 Hamilton 39112 MEN'S BASKETBALL (5-5). UNION INVITATIONAL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (3·3) :MEN'S TRACK WOMEN'S TRACK Dutchmen Sportsweek January 16- January 22 THURSDAY1/16 Women's Basketball vs. Concordit1 F RI.DA Y 1/17 Hockey vs. Geneseo SATURDAY 1/18 Hockey atWilliams Men's Basketball vs. N. Adams J.V. f'iockey vs. Amherst Jr. Knights J.V. Basketball vs. RPI TUESDAYl/21 Women's basketball vs. Williams WEDNESDAY 1/22 Hockey vs. Mic:ICIIebury Men'-s Basketba'f'l·at Pfattsbl)rgh J.V. Basketball vs. Williams UNION 77 Wesleyan 61 Hamilton 59 Manhattanville 66 · Russell Sage 40 UNION 43 UNION 50 UNION 50 UNION2S UNION25 7:00 7:30 7:30 8:00 12:00 6:00 7:30 7:30 . 8:·00 7:00 '~ • '

- :':: ..... ...... Q) ~ Hoop·· sters Fallin U·nion. ln·vy· SeeStory below. Valente Named AD-American ThursdaytJanuary 16, 1986 Hockey Rebounds 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats By JOHN BRUCE Sp~Jrts Staff The Union College Skating Dutchmen have an overall record of 4-7, but four of their losses have been to Division I teams. Tfie Dutchmen lost to defending Division I national cham,pions RPI by a score .of 6- 3, to Princeton. by a 2-1 margin and to Ottawa and Concordia. The last two losses came in the Micron Tournament, which the Dutchmen participated in over the December break. In the ECAC Div. II, the Dutchmen have a 5-3 record with wins over North Adams, Oswego, AIC, and Salem State. The Skating Dutchmen have a 4-1 record in Achilles Rink, after their recent 7-2 victory over Salem State. The Dutchmen. scoring leader so far this season has been senior John MacKenzie (2 goals and 9 assists) followed by senior co-captain Curt Cole (5, 6) and sophomore Gary Temush ( 5, 6) with ten .points each. The Skating Dutchinen seem well prepared for their run at another playoff position for the third year in a row. The ex- perience of playing in the Micron Tournament against Div. I teams seems to have been beneficial, as the team played extremely well in the Salem State game. Senior co-captains Curt Cole and Tom Hodgins have continued to climb up among the All-Time Union College scoring leaders, and are now in seventh and eleventh place respectively, with 101 and 92 points each. Senior defen- Union Stuffs Hamilton By MARK VAN BUREN Sports Staff formance in the past two years, the Dutchmen beat Hamilton, for their fourth win of the After what Union coach Bill season, 70-59. Hamilton entered Scanlon called, \a big win for the game ranked No. 2 in the us, but not an upset,'' over state and No.8 in the nation in Hamilton College Tuesday the Div. III polls. A sour note to night, the Dutchmen escaped a the Hamilton victory was the sluggish first half and erupted loss of forward Junior Bruce for 60 second half points, as they Witherspoon for 4-6 weeks due cruised past Manhattan ville on to two broken fingers on his left Saturday, 101-66. During the hand. Witherspoon, coming off opening period, tt was a 16 point outing vs. Wesleyan; anybody's ball game. Union had just recently cracked the held slim leads throughout most starting line-up, and was of the first half and opened up a playing quality ball for the 7 point advantage, 35-23, with Dutchmen . . . The Dutchmen 4: 22left before halftime as Todd are being led thus far by · f'~yette coverted a 3 pt. play. sophomore Kurt Fox and juniot · . Dutchmen increased their Todd Lafayette who are ,·gin to 11 points, 41-30, as averaging 14.6 and 13.9 points ·~~Gregory hit 2 free throws per game. respectively. Both with 1:44 remaining in the first Fox and Lafayette are half. Manhattanville proceded averaging over 8 rebounds per to score the next four points game as well. As a team, Union before intermission to cut the is scoring 72.6 ppg and giving up Union lead to 41-34 at tbe only 65.9 ppg .. \ The team has halfway mark. received a big shot in the arm The second half was a com- from freshman Doug Gregory, pletely different story, who has not only made big however, as the Dutchmen contributions offensively, but came out running and never has done an admirable looked back. Kurt Fox led the defensive job as well . . . Dutchmen with 2(} points. He Currently the Dutchmen have a was followed by Neil Winawer 3 game winning streak, after and Lafayette with 18 points starting out the year with a 2.:.S each and Joe Romer with 15. In record. They are looking to all, 11 Dutchmen reached the expand that streak Wed. Jan.15 scoring column, as everyone vs. Middlebury and Jan. 18 vs. saw a considerable amount of North Adru:ns State. Both are playing time. home games and i!ltart at 8:00 Dutchmen Notes ... On Jan. with the JV games starting both 7, in what- was--their '~st pe~;\0.: nights,aHbOO:p.m •.. · . Player 12 game totals .seman John MacKenzie is now in fourtheenth place with 74 points. The Skating Dutchmen appear to be ready to secure another playoff spot again this year. On Saturday Union traveled . to Rochester to play R.I. T. The Skating Dutchmen fell to 5-3, but there was some consolation in- playing the league leading team so close. On Tuesday the Dutchmen rebounded and defeated Hamilton 3-1. The continentals kept the score close as the game .was tied 1-1 at the end of two periods. But Gary Temush and Duane Joyce allied 3rd period tallies to boost Union to victory. Union's next game is tomorrow night at 7: 30 vs. Geneseo St. at Achilles Rink. John Macktmzie Curt Cole Gary Temush Duane Joyce Darren Stephens Todd Flanagan scott Cyr Nelson Said Tom Hodgins Chris Huntington Dave Appleby Tom. Brandel! Dave Weiss Scott Manley Gavin Morton Bill Snow Rich Prezotti Wayne McDougall Scott Richardson Rick Rockett Mi.ke Forhan Toby O'Brien Jim MacLaughlin Mi.ke Raymond Goalie: 1985-86 Union College Basketba II Statistics 10 game totals . Player G FG FGA FG% FT FTA FT% Reb. Kurt Fox 10 63 129 48.8 21 34 61.8 77 Todd Lafayette 10 60 111 54.0 21 41 51.2 86 Rob Parento 10 39 89 43.8 4 9 44.4 lB Neil Winawer 10 34 66 . 51.5 9 15 60.0 40 Tom Beck 10 31 74 41.9 2 4 50.0 28 Ken Levine 10 21 48 42.2 10 12 80.0 29 Joe Romer 9 19 39 48.7 9 13 69.2 19 Doug Gregory 8 15 30 50.0 9 11 81.2 25 Bruce Witherspoon ·8 16 24 66.7 5 8 62.5 19 Steve DeBalso 6 a 20 40.0 3 4 75.0 9 Scott Gibbs 6 5 10 50.0 0 1 00.0 5 Tim Coleman 7 2 7 28.6 1 2· 50.0 8 ·TimDiemoz 3 0 5 00;0 1 2 50.0 4 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 2 4 50.0 6 Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 0 0 .00.0 0 *No longer on the team Total 10 314 659 47 97 160 60.6 400 Opp. Tot. 10 265 585 45 •• 129 185 69.7 339 WRUC 89D7 Presents ' UN 1·0N COLLEGE HOCKEY Tomorrow vs. Geneseo Sat .. at .Williams Wed. vs. Middlebury Coverage begins at 7 p.m. . . .-. ' ;._ ' .. . -·~~ ' .... , ··~ v.rt. ~;.,f,•.:a; -TJlZ,Js,.'-~J;:<- . t -' AVG 14.7 14.1 8.2 7.7 6.4 5.2 5.2 5.0 4.6 3.2 0.6 1.4 0.3 1.0 0.0 72.5 65.9 -, .. • ,!' OVERALL GP GLS Ats Pts 12 2 9 11 l2 5 5 10 12 5 6 n 12 7 3 10 11 2 7 9 12 3 5 8 12 5 3 8 12 6 3 9 12 5 5 10 9 2 4 6 12 1 3 4 12 0 4 4 11 0 3 3 10 0 2 2 9 1 0 1 10 0 1 1 10 0 1 1 11 0 0 0 11 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 11 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 1 Gms Sv GA. GAA 12 303 39 3.25 Post Season Honors By SID The postseason awards keep rolling in for Union's senior noseguard Anthony Valente. The four-year starter, and the backbone of the l>utchmen's nationally-ranked defense, was chosen to the Associated PresS Little All-American Second Team it was announced today. It is the third award for- the 5 ft. 10, 210-pounder from Shelton, Connecticut. Valente; who was an AP honorable mention .selection last · year, was previously 1 named to the 24-man Kodak All- American team and to the ECAC Upstate New York All- Star squad. The Pizza Hut team, which had Valente as a first unit member in 1984, will be announced sometime in Januacy, Three other Dutchmen football.player.s wete sleeted· to the honorabble mention squad. Senior linebacker ;!?at Wright, offensive guard Gerry Ciun- partelli, and sophomore defensive end' Rich Romer all represented the Dutchmen on this year's squad. Valente, an economics majar, finished fourth on Union's tackle chart· this year with 41 first hits, 34 assists, two fumble ~~,~ : ·, .~ ~ - ~ Continued:,ou .. page 19 . 1 1 i . ( ' 1 I i c I J I

11 10 1l 10 9 8 8 9 6 4 4 3 2 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 A ft. AP in all on Elr, 41 ble lJJ • .., .t 1 ./ Bulk Rate U.S. Postage P,afd Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 CXV No. 10 Schenecto.dy, New York January 23, 1986 Meyer Selected •.• Rhodes Scholar Named 0 ..... 0 .c: a. Ill t:: 0 :;: ttl (ij r:t u ..0 ::J a. By LEE ANN SCHMIDT The Rhodes Scholarship was developed in 1902 as a result of Cecil J. Rhodes' desire to en- courage international un- derstanding and peace. Through this scholarship students from English speaking countries around the world are given the opportunity to study at Oxford for two years. Each year thirty-two applicants are accepted from the United . States. Gregg. Meyer, .a six-year medical student at Albany Medical College was Union's first t'ecipielit of the. Rhodes Scholarship. For the first time in Union's history a student at Albany Medical. College and Union Board of Trustees Meets . . . - ,, ... , .. ·····:· ·- ... ·, - .... --. . ) By JAN BARAN . , be~ind sc¥.edule bee~e a large the College an· 'estirriaf;d $1.9 shi:pment of. steel was not million; Some major changes . The Union College Board of Trustees met this past week to discuss a multitude of issues concerning the College, in- cluding increases in the yearly costs to attend Union, im- plementation of a new phone system, and the induction of a new Trustee chairman. The Board of Trustees, in its proposed revenue budget, agreed to raise tuition fees by 8.11 per cent for the 1986~1987 academic year. Residence fees and food contract fees were also increased by 7.38 per cent and 6.91 per cent respectively. These increas.es result in students paying an additional $1,000to attend Union over what they paid last year. The total cost for the 1986-1987 academic year is now estimated at $13,725 (see chart on p. 2 for full details). delivered on tlme. The e~pecl€d will have to be made including completi~n date for the Alumni changing all the-telephone jacks Gym .prOJect was estimated for to account for computer access. December 1987. The con• The Trustees also considered struction on the Co~ege Center the option of adding video was also determmed to be communication to the system, behind schedule, presently six noting that it would be easier to ''In 1987, students will pay $1,000 more to attend Union than they paid in 1986.\ weeks behind with the scheduled completion d.ate at the -end. of winter term 1987.-'lhe cost for the Center was ap- proximated at .$99 per square foot. add this system during the construction and not after it. Student · Trustee George commented on the feasibility of this system. He stated that the telecommunications system would be a lot cheaper to the students. and if run properly would be cheaper for the College. The trustees also considered several other matters at this January meeting. A new Board of Trustees Chairman, William Burns, '54, was announced. He will replace Arnold Burns (no relation) who was chairman from 1982 to 1986. Arnold Burns left the office at the end of his term, 1982-1986. The new chairman is currently . the Executive Vice President of graduate, Gregg Meyer, was selected for this prestigious award. He was one of more than one thousand applicants in the country. The demanding process of application involves collecting transcripts, · letters of recom- mendation, essays, and several thirty minute interviews. The committees that choose the scholarship winners look for outstanding students who portray several basic stan- dards. They must excell in literary and scholastic achievements, possess instincts to lead and demonstrate suc- cess in sports. Meyer exemplified all of these traits. ''While at Union Meyer was elected to Phi Beta ·.Kappa and:Jeeeived·the Joseph Doty Pn~_,, Jor superior achievement in history. He majored in biology and history and received his. bachelor of science degree summa cum laude, with the 1984 graduating class. · His cumulative average was 3.97 . . . and he played junior varsity hockey.\ (As quoted from the ·Schenectady Gazette December 16, 1985). While he is at Oxford, Meyer plans to study public health, epidemiology, and community medicine. Professor J. Board, a former Rhodes Scholarship winner, has been ·coordinating tbe Rhodes Scholarship applications for Union students for the past twenty years. He is quite pleased with Gregg Meyer's success and hopes that his achievement will open the door for future Union students. Professor Board would like to ~e the ~ollege stimulate early mterest m students to achieve this scholarship. He suggested .that it. w.ould .be .. beneficial to begin preparing students as early as in admission stage of their college careers. In the future, Union hopes to see more winners of such prestigious a wards as the Rhodes Scholarships. An inter~sting view of Union at night ... Approximately one-fifth (19 to 20 per cent) of the revenues from the increase in yearly costs, it shol:lld be noted, will come back to the students in the form of financial aid. This in- crease ·in the financial aid budget should amount to $333,330 for the 1986-1987 academic year. An additional $150,000 was added to the financial aid budget ''in order to stay competitive and to attract good. students.\ Over four million dollars ($4,252,717) will be · available in total student financial aid next year. A more controverSial topic at the Trustees' meeting involved a discussion of the new telecommunications system planned for Union. G-eorge noted that this sy15tem \caught a lot of Trustees by surprise.\ 'The system is designed so· that all students and faculty will be wired up to an all-College network to provide voice and date communication. Continued on page 2 Westol Criticizes Hazing By ERIC FEINGoLD Andrew George, a senior at · U~ion and a student trus'tee, VQted against the measure to increase next year's fees. He · questioned :why the increases in students' fees still continue when~ they were supposed to level off years. ,ago. . The Board of Trustees in their meeting in New York City also investigatecUhe progress made on Union's current construction projects. It was. noted that the Alllinni . Gym· . project is presently six to eig])t weeks · This network would permit computer ac;cess from student residences, the administration and faculty's offices as well as centralizing the local telephone system. All local bills would be paid to the College with the computer determining the~ cheapest routes. It is estimated that the cost for this system for each student per year would be a substantial saving over the approximately $26 that New York telephone charges per month to \flick the switch.\ . Students will also have the option of not having the local telephone service. This system, currently in the late planning stages, will cost The students and faculty in attendance at Old Chapel on Saturday, January 18, wit- nessed not only a program entitled,. \Hazing On Trial/' but a dramatic performance. Union's fraternal and sororital organizations observed a powerful indictment of an ac- ~cepted pledging tradition, hazing. ·· Dave Westol, an attorney from Michigan and a national officer .of Theta Chi, spoke with •an emotional intensity often found in a dedicated Clergyman craving communication and subsequent conversion. Mr. Westol'S message. was clear: Hazing cllapters pr()mote every principle that violates the hQnor and ideals of a fraternity or sorority. Westol delivered his words within the context of a dramatic narrative. The plot focused on the relations between the pledges and brothers of Gamma Nu Phi in Michigan during the initiation rituals, more notoriously known as Hell Week. The narrative focused on Inside two protagonists, fraternity president John Corkland and pledge Mike O'Brien, and a conflict which resulted in an arrest and a death. The visiting attorney in- criminated hazing chapters by revealing the ironies and Continued on page 4 Election Statements p. 5 Students, Dean Respond pp. 10-12 New Science, Health and Technology Section p. 13

. Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23,-1986 ~ c 0 E. Ill. L. 1- Bishop Howard J. Hubbard of Albany came to Union last Sunday to meet with students. Albany Bishop Preaches By LIZA LEIDNER . Most Reverend Howard J. Hubbard, D.D., Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany, was the celebrant and the preacher at Mass on January 19 in St. John the Evangelist Church. Bishop Hubbard, since his ordination to the episcopacy, has been in- volved in an abundance of community programs and projects addressing . the alleviation of poverty and the rehabilitation of ,people with drug addiction. · His achievements are numerous. He served as a delegate from New York State to the White House Conference · on Families during . Governor Carey's administration. Presently, Bishop Hubbard is Chairman of the Bishop's Committee on Human Values as well as the USCC Commission on Marriage and Family Life. He is also a member ()f numerous other social weliare and human service organizations. · In January ()f 1984, Bishop Hubbard was, appointed to the Secretariat for Non-Believers by Pope Jolin Paul II. At Sunday evening mass, BiShop Hubbard discussed his ideas on how to deal witl'i. poverty, in the most abstract sense of the word, in tod.ay's society . .He noted that one must not concentrate onthe effects of the situation; rather, it is necessary to concentrate on the situation's underlying causes and, in turn, the elmination of these causes. Furthermore, one must look on those less fortunate as 01.11\ equals and try to help the in- dividual. Bishop Hubbard noted that this should not be done witli one's checkbook; rather, jt must be personal, a kind of · extension of oneself. One Uni()n student swnmed up BisMp Hubbard's talk by saying tbat we must aU recognize that tile face of the Lord is in each and every person equally and one must respect this fact. Following the mass, the Newman Club hosted .a reception for the Bishop in the Old Chapel Dining hall. Pi~2a, salad, and soda were served an(l all had the opport,unity to meet the most personable Bishop HubbaJ:d and talk With him on an individual basis. Bishop Hubbard will also be the lecturer speaking 011< \Church and Public Policy!' on February 5 at 11:30 a.m. ill SS016 as part of the Minerv.a. Lecture Series. · Byrne Speaks on Intimacy I ... DCcisionsMadej Continued· fro~ page 1 to the Trustees, noting that as of NYNEXcorporabon. Jtwasalso January 7, 1986, applicati()ns By LINDA RAFFAELE The second in a series of five talks and discussions on Sex, Friendship, and Intimacy was presented last Monday night. Donn Byrne, Social Psychologist and Chairman of the Psychology Department at SUNY -Albany spoke on the subject of \Initiating and Maintaining Intimate Relationships.\ Byrne first became interested in interpersonal relationships in the 1950's. He conducted ex- periments to detennine how J)e()ple get to know each other. He explairied that there are three steps in interpersonal attraction: acquaintanceship, friendship, and love. standing near you at a bus stop in California if you suddenly feel the earth start to tremble below you. Finally, physical attraction plays a part in whom we get to know. Studies show that people like other people who are good- lo()king. Consciously or not, you are more likely to start talking to someone you consider physically attractive than · someone you find unattractive. Incidentally, people tend to pair off in similar levels of at- tractiveness. It's rare to find a Robert Redford married to ·a Phyllis Diller. While he recognizes that this is how people do become acquainted, Byme does not pretend to belive that these In marraiges that do survive, passionate love turns to companionate love. Companionate love can be ex- plained as friendship after love. It is companionate love that can make a relationship really last.'' But what are the variables that determine which people we will meet? To begin, the most important variable determining whom we will meet is propinquity or physical location. People meet other people who live near them. It is more likely that you will know people who live on your block than people who live across town. The same goes for people on campus-you are more likely to know the students who live in your dorm. And as far as classes go, you most likely will get to know the people who sit near you. Want to get to know someone in a class? Sit near that person. Your chances of getting acquainted are much better. Another important variable is the need for affiliation. If you're the type of person who really likes to be around people a lot, chances are that you will ac- tively seek out new acquain- tances. Two people with a high need for affiliation are more likely to strike up a con- versation than two people with a low need for it. Thirdly, there is the effect variable. People have a strong tendency to talk to each other when they are involved· in emotion-arousing circwnstap nces. For example, you are mote likely to talk to someone ways of meeting people are good. They are, in fact, quite random. '~All of these are terrible ways to pick someone who you're going to live with for the rest of your life,\ he said. The next question Byrne examined was how acquain- tanceship leads to friendship. There are three variables in- volved in this process: attitude similarity, personality similarity, and reciprocity of positive evaluations. Attitude similarity means that the two of you basically share the same values. Of course, you won't agree on everything, but if you agree on about 70 ·percent of things, · you're doing all right. Per- sonality similarity goes along with this. You are more likely to develop a friendship with someone whose personality is similar to yours. Good Vibes Reciprocal positive evaluations are the so-called \good vibes\ you give each other. People need to be ac- cepted and liked. This exchange of good feelings betwe~n two people does much to advance the friendship. Finally, Byrne addressed the issue of love. He explained that there are two types of love: passionate love and com- panionate love. Passionate love is what most people consider romantic love. It is the \love\ in \love at first sight.\ Couples . experiencing passionate love feel that they always want to be with each other. They touch each other often when they are together. For some, passionate loveleads to marriage. For others, it cools down and fades away. A study · at UCLA found that of 100 couples who were \madly in love\ one year,. half of them had broken up a year later. They - complained that the love had worn off and they had become \bored\ with the relationship. The same thing can happen in marriage. This helps to explain the fact that half of mattiages today end in divorce. People become bored with each other. They get stuck in ruts. They forget to talk to each other and have fun every once in a while. In marriages ·that do survive, passionate love turns to com- panionate love. Companionate love can be explaiqed as friendship after love. It is companionate love that can make a relationship really last ... noted that the planning for received by the office were Union's B~centennial. Campaign ~own froz.n last year, par- to·~ ~eld 1J1l995 has JU$t begUil~ tl~uJ,aflY m most . male ap- Umon s endowment currently plicatiOn areas. Eady decisim stands at $67,200,000 with in· applications; however, rose 15.9 terest of. $5,173,000~ per cent overau. MoreSbelf Space · InLibrary Several reports were made to the Trustees from vario11s segments of the College com• munity. Ann Seeman of Union~s Schaeffer library made a plea to obtain more shel~ space in the library. It was noted that this would be one of Union's to:p priorities after the completio11 of Union's twO: .. current con· struction. projects. The Admissions Office also reported , The Board of Trustees' next meeting will be held in April when several key issues will I:Je discussed. A report will I:Je given to the 'l'rustees from .the ·College divestment committee which is currently meeting to analyze the College's in· vestment practices and tB determine whether divestment from some areas is the ap- propriate course of action. The Trustees will also reach some decision about the ~effect of the increased drinking age on the College's social life. · Union Costs Proposed For 1986-1987 Increase 1985-86 Tuition Housing (Most Common) Food Contract Rate Increase Percent Total $9,435 765 8.11% $10,200 1,625 1,665 120 115- 7.38 6.91 1,745 1 ,.780 $12,725 $1,000 7.86%. $13,725 THIS WEEK'S EVENtS 23-Women's Commission Speaker Series with Linda Patrik-HHLL, 12:30 p.~. . Career Development Center Programs Recruiting: Closed sign-qps for weeks C & D CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. CABARET sponsored by Newman Club for the benefit of Covenant House Entertainers: Chris Siler, Jim Havard, Debbie Eisenberg, Tom Christopher, and Innerreflexions of Virginia Woolfe. (M.C. John Ciabacco), Old Chapel, 10 p.m. 24-Arts Improv~sation-Series with J. Presslaf and M. Foster-Keyboard & Drums, AB108,_ 7. 30 p.m. Career Development Center Program-Recruiting: open sign-ups .for weeks C & D, CDC, 8 a.·m.-p p.m. Entertainment by Michael Spiro (free, large, chocolate chip cookie with a ticket stub from any event), -Skellar, 10 p.m.-12 a.m. Freshman and Sophomore Elections for representatives to the Student Forum . . 24-26-Film: Amadeus, SS016, 7, 10 e.m. 25-Hockey: Unio~ ys. Buffalo, Achilles Rink 7:~Bp.m. Kuperberg Morr1s1Movement Theatr~ Production, Not~, 8 p.m. 2. 6-Muse~·Coll. _egefo~c. ert: B~ch Aria Group, M~mo~tal Chapel, 8J?.m. 27-IEF Discussion ~enes on mstory of Women 1n Liberal Arts with Faye Dudden, HHLL, 12: 30\im. 28-Film: Debbie Doe Dallas (X. , SS016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. Spea~er's Foriu:n resents ~erald Gardner on \America Censored\ Memorial Chapel, 8 p.D). Biology Seminar Series: \Mitotic Apparatus-surface Interactions in Animal Cell Division,. with Raymond Rappaport, Ph.D., Department of Bi<;>logical Sciences, Uni~College . . 29-Minerva Hour. with . ich.ardB.artlett, SS016, 11:30 a.m., Great Discussion . Series o~ Religion In Inte . ational Politics, HHLL, 7:30p.m. .~ ]?LAY. Spell #7, Nott, 8 .m. . ..

~, it d of Jni()n sh()p tlu:lt t tile a1td one the .a 1 the izz!l,. rved y t(l ~ble with o be Oil '' on: I, ill erv.a ls of ions vere par- lip- sion 15.9 1ext pril I be be the ttee : t() in- to 1e11t ap- lbe me the the II ) 5 ) CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 Page3 Letter sent to Greeks . • • Beer Taps to be Removed By DAVID MARIN During the winter break, all fraternities received a letter which declared that all per- manent tap systems in fraternities and sororities must be removed d11e to the liabilities crea.ted J:>ythe new drinking age law. The removal of these taps which will be completed by ttie end of February· has met with little to no resistance by the fraternities or students in general. · · Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa explained that these taps must be removed based on two separate opinions; one the College's attorneys and the other the Charlottesville, Virginia, based National Legal Research Group. In the first opinion, Werner v. major issue, Massa indicated that the requirements are \mainly for the fraternities' protection.'·' Union College is in a unique situation because all of its fraternities, except E:appa ''The only way to avoid or minimize liability therefore is to supervise the dispensing of all alcohol.'' and Mrs~ Marra's office, which has \done an outstanding job\ in helping to fill the social void. The Dean sees things looking up after the Student Center and the GYm are completed. Massa also hopes the fraternities and sororities will contribute, stating, \I think it's the responsibility of the fraternities and the sororities, in addition to the College, who have traditionally been the hub of the social life of the campus to be more creative in providing alternatives.\ . This comment reflects Massa's feeling that it is easy to create a party with ten to fifteen kegs of beer, but without alcohol it would require more in- novation to attract a social gathering. Certain parties such as Fiji Island Delta Upsilon Beach Party, for example, would still make .great non- alcoholic events, he suggested. He concluded, \It's not what the College is going to do, but what we're all going to do,\ a sen- timent he noted that has been expressed by others as well. \Out of Commission\ as of February 21,1986 ... .... Q) .0 ;;, .... <!) ~ > ttl c >- .0 0 ..... 0 s::. a. Alpha Tau Omega Fratendty (1971) is cited as a legal precedent which indicates that a fraternity has a responsibility to properly supervise a function where alcohol is served. The report concludes that \removing tap systems in fraternities and sororities will have the beneficial effect of enabling those organizations to more. carefully control the dissemination of alcohol,\ Sigma, are on campus. As such the college has an added liahili~y for their actions. At Colgate University in upstate New York, fraternities are located off-campus but legal counsel has advised that they remove the tap systems. That decision, however, must be made by each fraternity in- dividually and cannot be mandated by the school. In the case of Union College, only Kappa Sigma is in this autonomous position though Massa thinks that it, too, will probably remove its tap system. Burns Resigns FrOm Board The Nati<mal Legal Research Group made the following statement: \The purpose of.the new law is at- loggerheads with open beer taps. Given the change of the drinking age to 21, a New York Court could well conclude that a host or occupant of premises had reasonable cause to believe that minors were indeed being dispensed alcoholic bever.ages. The only way to avoid or minimize .. liability :·theJ;efo.re_. is ·to .super- ·, . ~vise ~t:tte, dispensing of all alcohol.\ The'report~added that · this liability is not restricted to just social functions. Massa explained that \the key here is the presence and what that presence implies,\ and that leaving -the tap systems in place \smacks of negligence.\ Though the College's liability is of course a The new policy does not completely ban alcohol from the fraternities. Cold plates are still permissible. Only permanent structures must be removed. · Restrictions on the size of parties at which alcohol can be served have also been added to ensure the proper dispensation of lilcohol. Dean Massa has received no complaints regarding the new policies. Students and frater- ·nities· all seem rather resigned to the necessity of ·the action aceordih'g to ·Massa who added that the new law left no choice. Asked about the future of social life at Union College, Massa admits that \there will be a tough period for a year or so.\ He applauded the efforts of the Social Alternatives Com- mittee, cr.eated through the initiative of the Student Forum YOU ARE HERE. Learn about the rest • • • There will be a brief, important planning meeting tonight at 7:30 in Social Sciences 110. Anyone in- terested in The Model United Nations or The Washington Trip sho·uld attend. RELATIONS CLUB \ . . ' . . . . . . . ~ . .. ' '\'- t '\: ~\' •. \.'\ ... ~ .. ',.~\t.. ..... \,\ .• ~ ...... ~~l\.-..'\.:\f,~~~\\\ ...... / .. 1i~,.\}·.;_: ..... ~\'·_ ..... ~ ..... \.\..- ... By JOANNE McANDREWS Arnold I. Burns, former Chairman of the Board of Trustees, has resigned after a four-year term. He was elected a Life Trustee in June of 1984 and will continue to serve as General Counsel. Burns is succeeded by William Burns '54 (no relation), who received a Bachelor of • Science Civil Engineering ctegree from Union. Burns is presently Vice President and . Chief Financial . Officer ·Of the NYNEX Corporation, the company that owns the New York and New England telephone companies following the divestiture of AT&T, based in White Plains, New York. According to an artiCle in \Union College\ bimonthly magazine, Burns has been involved in many aspects of the College since his graduation. He has held several positions in- cluding president of the Albany Terms Abroad is announcing that a probable exchange program with China is under conderation; and a meeting will be held on January 29, 1986 at 4:30 in HU 014 to discuss several issues regarding . this new program·. Everyone is welcome. Union College Public Speaking Competition Date: Thursday, February 6, 1986 Time: 7:00p.m. Place:. Fox Lounge Contestants will be asked to speak for 3 minutes on a randomly chosen topic. No preparation is necessary. Prize money totalling $200and award trophy. TO ENTER: contact Adam at 372-6332, Box 242. • • • .. • • ~ • > • • .... • ~ .. .. ... • ... \ '1,- \ lo. ...... \ • ,. .• \ • ', • '· ..... ')- ... \' \ .. )o Alumni Club, head agent for the Annual Fund, ReUnion chairman for his class, member of the Institute of Administration and Management Council, member of the Trustee Board of Advisors, and member of The Campaign for Union's national committee. In 1979, he joined the Board of Trustees, where he chairs the Finance Committee and serves on the Budget and Audit and Social · Responsibility and Executive Committees. He and his wife Margaret have six children, three of whom have graduated from Union-Patricia and Paul in 1978 and Eileen in 1982. In an interview published in \Union College\ magazine, Burns made the following statements about the relationship between business and education. \What business expects, I think, is for colleges to produce people who have had educational experiences that prepare them to deal skillfully with the unfamiliar and who have developed, where ap- plicable, some specific skills that can be more easily adapted.· \It shouldn't be that education starts at one point and ends at graduation and that experience starts then,\ he said. \We need more overlapping, more of a con- tinuum. Both sides should ex- pect and demand that.\ Andrew George, Senior . Trustee, commented, \I find him very thoughtful and in- telligent. I think that he'll be good for the school. Through working with him on the Social Responsibility Committee and through casual conversations, I find him generally concerned in the quality of education here at Union.\ The Student Forum '8&-'86 Minutes Meeting: No.9, January 13, 1986 Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bernell, S. Moss, K. Keaveney, A. George, J. Mountain, P. Virnich, R. Gross,M. Coleman, S. Ference, T. Dinunick, S. Lipsky, M. Bradley, K. Siegel, R. Allen, A. Carrel, D. Cohen 1. The meeting was called to order at 7:05p.m. 2. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved in a unanimous voice vote. Committee Reports: 3. Maureen Coleman reported on the SAC. Their first meeting will be held next week. \West study break\ was successful thanks to the Forum members. The recent attacks on campuswere discussed. 4. Kathy Keaveney reported on the AAC. Requiring the signature of the students advisor on their preregistration sheet in order to preregister was discussed. 5. Andy George and Julie Mountain reported that the Board of Trustees voted to raise next years college cost 7 .86%. 6. Pat Vernich reported on the IFC. All Greek houses must have their taps removed by mid-February. The new Alcohol Policy was discussed. 7. Beth Bernell gave the Finance Committee report. A) A motion was made to allocate $260.00 from the reserve for a Public Speaking Competition. Adam Rosman addressed the Forwn on this issue. The motion passed in a unanimous roll call vote. B) The Crew Club budget was unfrozen. C) The Rugby Club requested $400.00 from the reserve for the purchase of a scrub. A motion was made to grant the additional funds (line item #8612) and passed 12: 1 :0 in a roll call vote. 8. Ste:ve Moss reported on the CoC. A) The new Social Alternative Conunittee had its first meeting today. B) The Sub council on the curriculwn is discussing the possibility of creating an additional liberal learning category -W- for Writing. . - . New 'BliSiness 9 .. The Freshman Dinner will fie held next Tuesday evening (January 21) m Hale House at 5.:30 p.m. 10. A lecture on Hazillg will be held on Saturday at 12:45 p.m. in Old Chapel. 11. Elections will be held January 24 for two Freshman and one Sophomore (to fill vacancy) representatives to the Student Forwn. 12. The possibility of hiring an attorney to consult students was discussed. 13. Motion to a<ljourn was unanimously passed at 8: 40 p;m, Respectfully submitted, David Cohen

Page4 OONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 ... cv ..0 ::J ... 0 :£ > 10 Jan,kowsfcl h·lred ••• Computer. Services Gro\Ns By SERGIO RAMPEZZOTTI students can now learn about computers on a more personal level than in th_e past. 0 \ ..0 H~ve you ever considered taking a computer course but shied away from it for one reason or another? If that is the case, you need shy no longer. James Jankowski has recently been hired as technical in- formation analyst in the Office of Computer Services, one of the many individuals offering - seminars in computer science. These seminars cover Jankowski's occupation in- . volves consultations with faculty members and students about problems concerning software or any technical dif- ficulties with computers on both the · micro and mainframe levels. Mr. Jankowski is the typical example of an individual led into the field of computers through simple exposure to it. A chemistry major at SUNY at Cortland, he switched into a math-CS concentration after two years. This choice was based upon the expansion of creativity one can gain through the use of computer-type machines. One cannot only enhance one's velocity and quality with which one works but · can inq1.J.ire into a vast number of programs which can benefit one in a manner .which at first was not even taken into consideration, Jancowski believes• Weare now living in an age of computerized technology where innovation is just a hair's breadth away. We must seize the opportunity to gain knowledge of a field which previously seemed so in· penetrable and yet is extremely advantageous. For further information regarding com- puter seminars or the like, please contact the secretary in the Office of Computer Ser· vices. Suggestions for future courses or ideas concerning them are also welcome. 0 .... 0 ..c: c. Just hired, James Jankowski teaches seminars at the computer center and helps with software. broadly diversified fields where one's prior experience with the subject at hand need not be considered. Seminars are now being taught at all levels, from novice to expert. In this sense, Hazing Use Deplored Continued from page 1 detriments of their techniques. The attack began with the confused pledge asking, ''Why do we have Hell Week\?\ This }()gical question prompted Westol to reveal the illogical and often blind intentions of a hazing chapter. His speech fllcused on the gross disparity between the beliefs and the realities of an explanation ji.IStifying hazing as well as the opposing nature of hazing to fraternal ideals. A fraternity seeks to aid in- dividual maturation within the shell of its group structure. However, hazing techniques resemble procedures more akin to \training dogs.\ The hazing methods employed during Hell Week focus on mental and physical abus~. Ironically, .. the practices, which include the use of sar- casm, ridicule, and torturous forms of physical degradation, are intended to promote liility. What type of unity, one may ask? According to Westol, hazing fraternities use these methods to establish pledge unity. However, the speaker continued with an explanation as to why this motive is a farce. First, pledge unity over fraternity unity, an issue he has challeng~d over fifty chapters t() justify, can only establish group rivalries within a house. Secondly, physical and mental abuse will certainly create resentment and hate in an initiate who has sustained some injur~ from an abusive brother. Participation and a desire to achieve ~·llaracterize the am- bitions of many fraternities. Hazing chap .. ~rs have the worst record of community par- ticipation and r,ocial service. This fact prompted Westol to question what incentive a pledge has for earning his ac- ceptance into a stagnant organization. Ironically, the same brothers who en- thusiastically promote pledge abuse with the intention of preparing an individual for a highly esteemed position in the fraternity, contribute very little and usually maintain a healthy record of financial neglect in fraternal dues. Westol passionately described a scenario that focused on the interaction between a committed pledge and a sadistic brother. After wearing burlap sacks, eating onions, catching eggs dropped from an upstairs floor, and ingesting a dangerous level of alcohol, Hell Week activities paused. , The brothers informed the pledges that the ordeal was over. Naturally the pledges rejoiced at the news. However, an evaluation of behavioral black marks and testing scores prompted the second half of Hell Week and the brothers had inflicted another mental injury on the pledges. By this point in the proceedings the protagonist, Mike O'Brien, exhibited all of the signs of an overly exhausted and dangerously · sick in- dividual. After a few days without sleep and very little food, he was in no shape. to endure any further abuse. This fact alone should have been enough reason to terminate the initiation rituals. However, O'Brien's state provoked the opposite response from his brother. Corkland, the president of the fraternity and big brother to Mike, felt threatened by his pledge's need for help and feared the ridicule he might receive from his fellow brothers for being \weak.\ Thus he violently turned on Mike and ordered him to exercise or leave. This violation of trust and the threat to a fellow human being's health, completely renounce the founding ideals of the fraternity, namely, platonic love and brotherhood. The choice given to the pledge, that of confonrling or leaving, bears no relation to the meaning of the word choice. In fact, given Mike's state, the so called \choice was actually, a threat. Calling on his abilities as a lawyer, Westol stated that the \choice'' offered by the brother was a threat to Mike's self- esteem, his induction into the fraternity, and his desire to maintain friendships. The threat resulted in . Mike's acquiesence to more abuse and ultimately his death, suf- focation from vomit. Westol then continued to describe the criminal • ·In Memoriam · · A former Union College professor of history, Frederick Lide/1 Bronner. 84, passed away Monday after a short illness. Born in Richfield Springs, Otsego Cflunty, he became an American history instructor at Union in 1923, an assistant professor in 1930, an associate professor in 1937, and a .fir// professor in 1944. Retiring in 1966 he taught three summer sessions at Union and in 19(j}, he was named to the Bigelow r:Jrair in history. It honors John Bigelow, all 1835 Union graduate who was the U.S. nrinister to France under President Lincoln. His positions at Union included librarian in 1935, chairman of the social stUt!ies divisionjrotn 1937 to 1940, secretary of the College from 1942 to 1964, and editot tJ{ the alumni magazine from 1942 to 1945. Bronner was also a member of Phi Beta Kappa aswe/1 us being the presidentllndsecretaryojtlte Union Chapter. Surviving are a son, Frederick Bronner of New York City and Cornwall ConnectiCut, twtJ driughters, Louise Sloan of Chicago a11d Elizabeth JJronner of Phoenix. Arizmta, and jour grandchildren. The memorial service will be held the weekend of graduatio11, Jmte13.J5, 1986. Arrangements were made with Baxter Funeral Home. proceedings whicl) charge4 the president of the fraternity with manslaughter. The speaker lalUlched into an illustration of how the charged president would respond to police questioning. Westol employed his ability to affect an audience by assuniing the tone and perspective of the accused. During a hypothetical investigation, Westol recreated the possible list of answers in defense of hazing methods: \Always been done\ \Tradition\ \Builds character\ \Builds class unity\ \Gotta be done\ \Nothing else to do\ In court the situation worsens for the accused. The fraternity executive board testifies against the accused, John Corkland. A fellow pledge retells how he was prevented from aiding his now deceased best friend. Although Westol refrains from creating the court's decision in this hypothetical case in the winter of 1987, he foreshadows the probable verdict of such a case as guilty. The speaker from Michigan spared no emotion. He recited a list of questions that echoed through the chapel with a potently satiric and in- criminating tone: \How do we develop love by wearing burlap sacks?\ \How do we develop respect by eating onions?\ \How do we develop sincerity with fake endings?\ Westol concluded his presentation by anticipating any accusation that questioned his right to speak. Westol related his own pledging experience to the audience and expressed is own shame at having participated in a hazing chapter. He infonned the audience that in the past ten years our country has lost seventeen lives as a result of hazing activities: In closing, Westol expressed his sincere hope that all organizations will abolish any support of hazing traditions, and he offered his assistance to any fraternity or sorority in need of change. . Freshmen and Sophomores I Jobs Limited (CPS)-Spring grads' job prospects may not be quite as positive as previous reports predicted, the latest testing of American business' hiring plans indicates. The previous repcn:ts, moreover, suggested only slightly better job prospects than students had last year, _ when the job market was at a nadir. \I expect it to be flat, maybe plus or minus one percent compared to last year,\ ob- serves . Victor Lindquist, supervisor of Northwestern University's Endicott Report, the most recent of the three major surveys on job prospects for graduating seniors. And previously f'hot\ engmeering, computer and chemistry grads are going to have a much harder time finding jobs than their counterparts of the last few years. \Students are going to have to commit to a longer job search and be satisfied with fewer choices,\ Lindquist says. In late November, the College Placement ·Council (CPC) projected firms will make two percent more job offers than they did last spring, while in December Michigan State's national survey of business hiring plans predicted a 1.4 percent rise in job offers for '86 grads. The three surveys ask companies throughout the country how many first~time job seekers they plan to hire from the next graduating class. Lindquist says his report was less optimistic because it polled firms three months after the CPC did, and because it does not sample government agencies' plans like the CPC does. \Our report is pretty close to (John) Shingleton's at Michigan (State),\ he notes. \All three surveys sample different populations/' explains Rhea Nagle of the CPC. For only the third time in 20 years,. Lindquist's \population\ had a declining interest in hiring engineering majors. There will be six percent fewer job offers for them this-year, the report said. The Endicott Report also predicts a nine percent decrease in offers t(J chemistry majors. The other reports anticipated a \slight\ increase. The Northwestern survey does· agree that com- puter majors will suffer a five percent decrease in em- ployment opportunities. Not all the news is gloomy, however. There is, Lindquist · folUld, a continuing employer interest .in business and marketing degrees. And liberal arts grads have better job prospects this . year, the Endicott Report found. Firms planned to make 12 percent more job offers to liberal arts grads than they did -last year, Lindquist say~. Companies think liberal arts majors are \more able to deal with disparate thoughts and ideas. Their thinking is more holistic,\ Lindquist says. \We need people who can translate computers into usable terms,\ explains Steve Bennett, author of \Playing Hardball with Soft Skills,\ a soon-to-be-released book about how liberal arts majors can break into the job market.· Lindquist says American Telephone and Telegraph (AT&T) recruits liberal arts majors as managers because they perform better than any other degree. Lindquist also credits the move by many liberal arts majors to take a more diversified curriculum, which often includes computer, math and business courses. \Kids are ·getting better prepared for jobs.\ In preparing for the job market, Lindquist recommends seniors had .\better hit the ground running now, get a resume together, know the market. You .are going to be competing with all your classmates. It's going to be a very competitive year.\ Women's Commission Lunchtime Colloquium Series Thursday, Jan. 23, 12:30 P.M. Hale House Lower Lounge Prof. Linda E. Patrik, Philosophy Dept. 11 Women Silenced: How History ,LQses Great Women\ .·

1d ks ItO ns a tot ~n. >W ed is 'fe to ch n- ily er n- ;e, in re !lg s. er 1e tt 1€ t() er ~, ~Jl [}• re 1· y-, st ;s il d e e e \ [\ :t d s b ·• r > l CONCORDJENSJS, Jaauary 23, 1986 PageS Matthew Baltay. my attention during the course Ch. aries M· ... ·eGa· v· ·er· n of my campaign. Conceivably, these concerns could seriously affect our academic, social, and personal lives here at Union. In order to prevent this possibility, prompt action is required. The Student Forum is the organization which will deal with all of the above issues. The only promise that I will make, if elected as FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE to the STUDENT FORUM, is that I will work quickly to address the concerns mentioned and any others that are brought to my Baltay · attention. I know that if elected, McGavern DO YOU KNOW WHAT A FRESHMEN REPRESENT- ATIVESHOULD BE? His role is to act as the link between the Freshmen class and the student government. Determination and an assertive personality will make the freshman class vocal· in the student govern- ment. Traditionally this position has been held by someone with experience and imagination. A vote for these qualities is a vote for MATT· BALTAY!!! I will be available to my classmates, to listen to their A:t the present time, Union concerns and questions. College is.experiencing ~hanges Thank you for your time and both physically and socially. As your vote. . . the fres~man class, these .:...... ......... ...__ ____ ...._ __ . -. -. --:~ changes will affect us the most. Stepham .·e Jaryna' While we can be optimistic · . · · · · · · · about the new athletic and Kevin lrland :.·,. lrland Social Life. Personable Faculty. Small Classes. Decent Housing. Superior academics. Strong extracurricular and spOrts programs. These are many of the things which we all investigated when we looked at colleges. For many of us, myself induded, Union College possessed all of these qualities. The raising of the drinking age, campus construction, reduced faculty course load, and curriculum changes are all concerns which were brougllt to Jaryna My name is Stephanie J aryna and I believe that Union College, like any other College, has its share of academic and ~ocial problems. The .pllrpose of the student forum, as the principle form · of student government, is to work with school officials and direct committees -apd activities to resolve these problems. If 1 am elected freshman represen- tative to the student forum 1 will faithfully attend !ill meetings and functions of the student forum and participate to the best of my ability. This is the promise I make to you. I VOTE I the.difference is o • • ... your kind of pl~ce. .• . the difference is exciting gifts •. . the difference is distinctive cards and stationary ---- . .• • the difference is your kind of clothes at a_ discount .• . the difference is minutes from campus the differe.nce is _ ' corner of Liberty and South Terry Streets Schenectady. Visa - Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri.J0:00-5:30 · Sat 10:00-5:00 57 Days Until Theses are Finished! recreational facilities being built, we must .also take action to satisfy our needs and desires in the interim. I feel that my enthusiasm for the job, along with my past leadership ex- periences in high school make me a genuine candidate to :.represent your ideas and opinions to the Student Forum. Joshua W aidman Waldman Name: Joshua Lee Waldman Qualifications: -High School Student Government President ...... Youth Group State Vice- President · -Key Club Divisional Officer Goals: -Make· sure Union is more than just morningvare, dayvare, eveningvare, and svimvare .... very niice -Try to be available to talk with and listen to our classmates so I can present ideas from our class to the Foum. x6521; Davidson 151 -Try to get the fieldhouse available for events com- parable to those at the R.P.I. fieldhouse. -Get more Capt'n Crunch at breakfast -These are only ideas, input is always welcome! · IEF SEMINAR ON WOMEN IN THE CURRICULUM AND THE INSTITUTION Monday, January 27,. 12:30 p.m., Social Science . Faculty Lounge. (please note change location) c Bring your lunch) Discussion leader: Prof. Faye DUdden Readings Con reserve under women's Research Seminar): Nancy Cott & Elizabeth Pleck, Introduction to A Heritage of Her Own (1979). Carroll Smith· Rosenberg, \The Female World of Love and Ritual,\ Signs (1975) Joann Vanek, \Time Spent in Housework/' Scien'iific Afnerican (1974). · •. ,*VOTE* :: .. +'411<i ,,,::;~fileet&'• for Two (2) Freshmen ·· · .·.·.·~ ; and One (l) Sor)bOm:ore Representative- to the Student Forum TOMORROW F'iday, J•nuary 24, West College Dining Halt . 8:30~4:00 r .. :So~= Represe!Kative- I DavidCohen Cohen To the Class of 1988: Greetings. I know that ~ost of you are a bit confused over the purpose of this election. It is to fill the vacancy created by Sophomore Class Represen- tative Gardner Bolster's .decision not to return to Union this Winter. So, here we go again! Hello. I'm David Cohen and am running, once again, for your representative to the Student Forum. This election gives you the opportun~~Y to help mold our next years of campus life. I am asking for your 'support tomorrow because I sincerely want to be your Student Forum representative for the rest of this year. I, for one, would be committed to making your suggestions realities. Participation as ·a Union representative is not a foreign experience to me. This year, I have served as the Student Forum's Secretary. I have attended every Forum meeting during this school year, and have helped debate many important issues that have come before the Forum. Some of the pertinent issues the Forum has been confronting are: the new campus alcohol policy, registration procedures, the lacking variety of course selections, and the recent at- tacks on campus. Campaign promises are a thing of the past · because you know what happens to most of them ... Even so, I want to work with you, making Union the best that it can be. Your voice in Union's future will be decided tomorrow. It is up to you to elect the candidate that will best represent your interests. A vote for COHEN will be well worth your while. . Lisa Galati Galati Vote TOMORROW It's easy to complain about what Union used to be, however, in order to effect change, a certain degree of determination is warranted. The age-old maxim stating that things are more easily said than done holds true-but not only am I a sayer, I'm a doer. I offeF you no bombastic promises, I only pledge ac- curate representation of the sophomore class, and sincere devotion to the betterment of our college commllllity. Paul Rubin Rubin In the wake of the new campus alcohol policy, we have incurred many changes in the selection of activities we can participate in on campus. This selection becomes increasingly more important as this Winter term moves along, and yet, somehow, even more important than that, once we hit the traditionally alcohol-enhanced spring days of the CamphUnion weekend, or the even more informal barbecues and cookouts thrown by our fraternities, sororities, and dormitories. As one can't really help but notice, the various organizations on campus have been working hard to plan \dry\ activities. For example, this past Tuesday night, we not only had the traditional Tuesday night movie, but we also had an all campus dance planned for us, and a concert in Memorial Chapel. Those who look at January's activities calendar will find only two days in the entire month that do not have ·activities planned on them. As a candidate for the vacant Sophomore Representative to the St.udent Forum position, I can say that if elected, I will do my best to see that this incredible planning stretches throughout the rest of the year. Being an R.A. in Hickok House, I realize how important good programming is. Much as the Movie Selection Committee has noticeably upgraded its movies this term, I feel it is a responsibility to likewise upgrade the activities on campus. l believe that because . of my training and duties as an R.A., I have a better feeling as to which activities would be better received by our com- munity. Also, I consider myself a good and responsible listener; one who not only keeps his mind open to good suggestions, but one who is responsible enough to carry them out. Finally, no matter whom you choose to vote fort please go down to West Friday and vote.

· Page6 . CONCOR;DIENSIS, January23, 1986 - PIZZA 374-4332 FAST, HOT, FREE DELIVERY Now Open Lat~ for Your Convenience. Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m . . , Serving the . ' SUPER BOWL PIZZA BEST PIZZA 24 Cut Cheese ·P·izza Fre-e 32 oz. Soda with any order at the BEST PRICE! ' UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS Show us your college IDs _ between 2 pm ~ 5 pm and receive Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 Spaghetti and Meatballs-· $2.95 parties of 4 or more will receive a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola Sunday Evening Mexican Night ·Featuring: Nat hoes, loaded Nachoes, Triple loaded nachoes, Me 1 xican. sa lads, and Mexican· skins- Half Price .with your IDs! MfiNHf\ fiN i:~~IH~~~ 605 Union Street 374-5930

The Minerva Hour Richard J. Bartlett is the Dean of the Albany Law School. He has been a member of the New York State Assembly,· chairman of the New York State Crime Control Council, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court, and chief administrative judge with responsibility for administering the New York court system. Moffett's Liquors Invites you to fight off the cold w·ith our many varieties of . Schnapps Van B.ranken Ave. ( next.to Norstar Ban~) Go Dutchmen! College students with valid ID's are eligible for Okemo's Special Coilege Discount at the Okemo Mountain Lodge. Con- dominiums surrounding the Base Area feature full kitchens, fireplaces, telephones and cable color TV. Ski-in, ski-out accomodations conveniently located to all mountain facilities. The French Club presents 2 original French films, with refreshments! Everyone Welcome. Tues. 1/28 at 7:30 Call Bill (382-9688) or Sergio (346-1970) for the details Page7 .......................................................... • • : PRESTO COIN LAUNDRY ! : and : • • : DRY CLEANING i • • i . *STUDENT SPECIALS * ~ • • : 8-9:00 Mon.-Fri. : : a-s: oo Sat. -sun. : : 2009 Broadway 381-4243 : • • : Broadview Plaza- Schenectady : ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ........... price discount on lift tickets mid-week lesser discounts weekends and Holiday periods 12/25/85-1/1/86, 2/15- 2/21/85. OI<ertio has: ' • 58 trails and slopes • Has the fourth highest vertical drop in Vermont • Has eight major lifts including a new 4-passenger chairlift. • Covers over 60% of its skiable terrain with snowmaking. • Receives an annual snowfall of over 12 feet. • Is the only Eastern ski resort with a major town at its base. • Has a 4% mile novice trail from the summit. • Has two of the steepest gladed areas in the Northeast. Half-price skiing is twice the fun. Write or call for more information: Lodging Service . . . 802-228-5571 Snow Reports . . . . 802-228-5222 General Information 802-228-4041 Okemo Mountain RFD 1, Box CA, Ludlow, Vermont 05149

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, January 2.3, 1986 FEATURES Censorship Show Planned Gerald Gardner, a \jack-of·a'll·trades\ will visit Union next Tuesday, January 28. Sponsored by the Speakers Forum, Gardner will appear at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel. By SPEAKERS FORUM On Tuesday, January 28, the Union College Speakers Forwn is presenting Gerald Gardner, who will speak on censorship in the media. Gardner has a long history of involvement in the .enw tertainment field. His career began In 1961 when he wrote the political satire, \Who's In Charge Here?\ a paperback of humorously captioned newsphotos of public figures. The book remainect on the New York Times bestseller list for 37 weeks, and eventually became a quadrennial collection of election year humor, while selling over sixmillion copies. Aide from his 'Photo-Caption Travelling Club Succeeds By~ORIEHOFFER Along with the weeltend movie, signs have been posted everywhere around the campus for the Union University travelling club trip to see CATS. The Travelling Club began last spring headed by Paul J eseps, a senior at Union College. He often took advantage of Siena's trips to the opera, and thought that Union could use a club that would give students, faculty and alumni a cnance to escape the confines of the campus and get to know one \another. In fact, J eseps stresses the fact that the club's name is Union University Travelling Club, as opposed to Union College. Just as im· portant as the travelling, is the opportunity for all schools in the University to get together. For the club is open to all students, faculty, staff, and alwnni of Union College, Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, and Albany College cf Phar- macy. Jeseps feels that many students are Wlaware of the fact that Union College is a part of this University system. The advisor of the club, Professor Board, for example, is not just a Political Science professor here at Union College, but is af- filiated with Albany Law as well. Due to the lack of awareness, many students thinking about careers in medicine and law are missing out on chances to talk with other students who are in the professional schools already. He also feels that campus political organizations especially, would do well to utilize the facilities at Albany Law. Jeseps hopes that Con- cordiensis will adopt the University logo, for he stated that the word \Concordy\- meaning University-appears on the official University Seal. The trips that the group plans, headed by Jeseps, the Albany affiliate Di Burgbard (a student at the Law school), and vice president Eric Lipman, are incredibly popular. Already, the club has travelled to Boston's Quincy Market, and New York's South Street Seaport. The Broadway trip to CATS sold out in foUr weeks. Although the club is supported by the college, it is anon-profit organizatio~. It bas yet to take a loss on any vena ture, and has bad to- steer many Wlhappy customers away, due to limited space. Mrs. Marra has been very helpful in getting the club together. And the response from the students; faculty and staff, has been overwhelming. Future events Jeseps hopes to see are a ski trip, a trip to Washington, which would be a weekend event, and another trip to Boston. The club is an opportunity for everyone to take advantage of the University, socialize, and go far away for:a little money. Jeseps hopes on increased awareness of the University through the travelling club, and is very pleased with the . results thus far. Due to the apparerit decreasing student social facilities on. ca:mpus, the travelling club is a very welcome addition to the school. And, everyone affiliated with Union is encouraged to take advantage of the future events- sign up early! books and features, he has written comedy for TV and Motion Picture13 for the past 24 years. He authored the hit television shows \Get Smart\ \The Monkees\ and \What's Happening\ along with others. Gardner's involvement with the media and . politics prompw\ ted his interest in censorship in the media. His research into this area has uncovered many clips of famous· movies, T.V. shows, news stories, and music videos that have been censored. This lecture will include many clips from movies such\ as \Gone With the Wind\ ~'From ' .. Here to Eternity\ \The Ten C«>mmandinents\. and 10 .King Kong\. Some television shows • include \I Love Lucy\ and \Star Trek.\. The presentation includes the comedians Richard Pryor and David Steinberg, along with rock groups Duran Duran, The Rolling Stones, and David Bowie. Gardner's presentation also· contains some startling information on government censorship on issues such as Pearl Harbour, Atom Bomb tests, · and the recent invasion of Grenada. The evening looks to be very interesting and entertaining. Tickets are two dollars and are available at the Old Chapel Box Office. Remember, Tuesday, January 28, at- 8:00 p.m. at Memorial Chapel, Gerald Gardner. · • \IHEN.LOTS \.liFE LOOKED BACK AT SOOOH lliE SLUGS I<NE\1 IT 'WAS TIM£ TO RUN. 1 w:rite for Features --::.· • c • • • Call6155 Let Us Honor King · Thursday, February 6,. 7:30 p.m. in 55·115, a presentation entitled \Aitern11tives to Abortion'' will be led· by Maureen DeBlasio of Birthright of Schenect~dy and sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. All members of the college community are invited to attend. By JIM SOLOMON Monday, January twentieth marked the first nationally recognized Martin Luther King Day. Previously only presidents of the United States were bestowed with such national recognition. However, King's humanitarian achievements were just as remarkable and monumental as those of George Washington and Abraham Lincoln. It is therefore fitting and longer overdue that the efforts of Dr. King be renaenabered with such a patriotic honor. The reason Dr. King is hailed in this appropriate manner is because he was a noble American. He was the impetus that shook America by her shoulders and awoke her to the fact that she was straying from her national ideals. Violating the sacred inalienable rights of a handful of her children, America was not keeping her promise of guaranteeing each American the right to \Life Liberty and the Pursuit of Happiness.\ Martin Luther King, a yo\lllg pastor in Montgomery, Alabama, was just another American black treated as a second class citizen. He was angry that he could not sit at the same lunch counter as wqites, he was rorced ti sit at the back of the bus, while whites sat in the front, he did not have the right to attend the same movie theaters as whites and he was not entitled to the same educational ()pportunities as whites. As Dean Daniels points out in his essay on ''Martin Luther King's Satyagraha,\ 'The vestige of slavery 11emained in institutionalized racism and little was being done to correct the injustices.' Segregation was a way of life in the South and indignities were heaped upon blacks by public authori.ties and. private in- dividuals. That blacks were denit~d fundamental, guaran- teed rights and subject to such disgraceful inequalities solely on the basis of the color of their skin was an enignia to him. For as a pastor and an American, he believed \All men are created equally.\ As Dean Daniels further emphasizes, these conditions di~ not require action, they demanded action. King gave two reasons: \To passi~ely accept evil involves one in this evil\ and \not to protest evil is, in effect, to cooperate with it and provide the oppressor with a justification for his acts.'' Using this reasonable logic and appealing to men's conscience and notion of j1,1stice, King besieged Americans to band together and eradicate racial inequalities. The vehicles through which -Dr. King attempted to tackle the covert inequalities were education, legislation, and morality. Dean Daniels suggests . . . \the objective of education was to change at· titudes, to change internal feelings of racial hatred, and to break down the spiritual barriers to integratton. , The purpose of legislation and court action wasto regulate behavior, to control the external effects of the feelings of racial hatred and to break down the physical barriers to integration. \ \But King contended that things of fundamental im- portance are not secured by reason alone. Desegregation would bring down the barriers and bring men together physically, argued King, 'but something must touch the hearts and souls of men so that they will come · together spiritually.' It was necessary for blacks 'to convince the white man that he seeks justice for · both himself ·and the white man.' This power force should contain a moral component that 'develops a sense of shame in the opponent and thereby brings a transformation and change of heart.' This moral component was the method of non-violent resistance.\ Utilizing this Ghandian method of. passive resistance, King appealed to the sensibility, intelligence, and morality of human .beings all over the world. All King and the blacks ·wanted was to be treated equally. That was not very much to ask for in this \land of opportunity.\ As George Washington fought two hundred years ago to merely be granted the rights of all Englishmen. Martin Luther King similarly fought a war in the 1960;s to be granted the rights of all Americans. Because of the righteousness of his cause and the perceptibility of the American people, Martin Luther King's dream has begun to be realized. Hopefully, astute Americans are aware that inequalities still exist and deserve constant and perpetual attention. It is only. with this awareness that we can continue to realize the dream of this great man and continue to build a better America. Editor's Note: Excerpts were taken from Dean Daniels' piece on \Martin Luther King's Satyagraha,\ which was published in the January~ Febru.ary 1978 issue of . the Union College magazine. Bouriqu<· 169 Jay Street Handmade Silver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Cnmplete Line of Pipes & Smoking Accessorie~. Hock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items

-- - ld m ~d g, ln ld 's 1e In In r, 1e ~y g. td el r, 10 1, • • ::::: ··•·· ··••· ··•·· CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 Page9 FEATURES Big Eric, Little Roy By MARY BETH MANNING Everyone has seen the posters and heard about Big Brothers-Big Sisters, but what do you really know about it? Speaking to Eric Feingold, a Big Brother in the program, made me realize how great the program is. Feingold, who is receiving an award this month for his participation, has been a brother for a year and a half. Eric claims that his success with the program occured becau~.e he and his little brother, Ray, are such a good match. ·After going through in- terviews, E~ic chose R~y from the description that he was given. Since then, they've been getting together once a week for three to :five hours. They've play;ed basketball, gone bowling, gone camping, and to the Baseball Hall.of Fame. Eric enjoys opening Ray's wor'ld, giving him something to aspire to. To Ray, Eric is a role model as well as a combination of parent and friend. In addition, Eric feels he benefits from his relationship with Ray. It is good to get in touch with the fresh perspective of a thirteen year old. Anyone interested in becoming a Big Brother or Big Sister should call 374-4523, for more information. The people TONIGHT 1 0 PM in Old Chapel CABARET Sponsored by the Newman -!=lub to .. 1 ;- ~ benefit Covenant House, a shelter for ru·naway teenagers in New York City. Admission $2.00 BRING A FRIEND! ll~lllltl[l~lllii~tllmmmmmmm~mmmmmtmmmmrmm~mmm~m~mmmmm~ri;~mmmml~!~l~t // I . . T~r:lE .1\JflRP VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370-3257 ···=·=·:·.·:·:·:·:·:~:·:·:•:·:·:-:,:-:•:·:•:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·!·:·:·:·:·t .. :·!·!·!·!·:·:·:·=·:·!·!·:·: .. :·:·:·:=:·:·:·:·:•:·:::.:·:·:·:·:·:-:·:·:·:·:· 372-0039 ''A Natural Choice'' Pies, Cakes Breads Cookies, Pastries, Donuts 1902 VanVranken Ave. Tuesday-Friday 8-6 Schenectady, New York 12308 Saturday 8-4 there work hard to fmd a little prother or sister that is a good match. As Eric. said, it isn't as much of a responsibility as it sounds like. 'You become a person the children can talk to, without being judged/' It is important that anyone taking on a little brother or sister be cotnmitted to them and not back out after getting involved. Many of these children have had difficult family lives and they have become involved in this program for companionship and support. . 30 Years: Eric Feinhold and Little Brother Ray, show us their \award winning'' smiles. The Life of a College Editor's Note: Professor C. William Huntley, a man who is almost as much a part of Union's history as the . Nott Memorial, has written this book in hopes that these Important years are not forgotten. Professor Huntley has fully accounted life at Union beginning in the 1940's with the sentiment that only a man who bas been a Union man for over 50 y~s can do. Throughout the winter term, Concordiensis will be prJnting excerpts from my book. However, we suggest you stop by the bookstore and pick up your own copy. Thirty Years in the Life of a College will make you feel proud to be a part of Union, a school which we, along with Professor Huntley, believe to be a very special place. As Union approaches its bicentennial, it is natural that the thoughts of the many who have known and loved the College reach backward. In considering the past, many questions come to mind, and so often the answers are either lacking or at best fragmentary. Whl'jt was life like on the campus in times gone by, and what did indeed happen to bring Union to its present shape and stature? This volume is a,n. attempt to record faithfully what occurred at the College from the late nineteen forties to the early eighties. These were the years that I have known the College intimately, and this was a time marked by a great chang~ at Union. There were three ex- citing periods in the years encompassed. First, there was the return of the veterans from World War II, a time when the enrollment went up almost overnight to fifteen hundred, about twice what it had ever been before, and there was all the wonderful ferment that the somewhat older men brought to the campus. This era had hardly passed when, next, the College had to cope with the decade of student prot.est and unrest. The sixties were a time when many of the. customs and .practices of' the College came into question, a time of sit-ins and protest marches, and a time when students pushed harder and harder for a role in deciding matters of college policy that affected them. It was a time, too, when student interest ··and concern reached beyond the campus to national and international politics and events. Finally, with the advent of the early seventies, faculty and student concerns were again turning inward toward issues of personal and campus interest. Then the callll was suddenly shattered by the events of the \Bonner Era\ and the College found itself in deep turmoil. The writer began this project with a strong conviction that many customs, attitudes, and events, if not properly recorded, are soon forgotten, and once lost, may nev¢r be retrieved. If this seems platitudinous, perhaps a few examples may make the point. How did students in the last Cl;lntury manage to study at night when they had only oil lamps for reading? Anyone who has tried to work by kerosene light will accept the fact that the phrase \to bum the midnight oil\ may be a colorful one but hardly describes the burden put opon · one's eyes, and one wonders if the early accounts mention this problem. Again, the term bills of the last century specify that students may not visit taverns or groceries. The first prohibition is understandable, but was liquor also avalla ble at grocery stores? Everyone would agree that history is best written by trained historians, but this is obviously not true in the present instance. B.R. Carman, writing in Symposi11Dl, quotes one writer as saying that \college histories az:e. the scandal of scholarship\ and then goes on to observe that such histories have \been treated as a branch of puffery and self-praise, and the sour notes are drowned. by the paeans •.• Lost from view is the Nott who preached of Abolition but fled in panic when a black man sought admission to his college.\ The following chapters in this history attempt to be a careful and accurate account of the various matters and events described, and what they lack in historical scholarship is perhaps balanced by the fact that the writen ac- tually saw much of what is related; he \was there.'' ••• But the account below is more than a factual record, it is also a memoir and series of reminiscenses. In an effort to separate the two, . personal experiences and opinion are, in general, set off by asterisks as is this paragraph. Separated, too, are some of the lighter anecdotes that one hopes the reader will enjoy, as for example, some of the great college pranks. ••• The writer began this account with a further preconception which is best made explicit. It is that recorded history is often incomplete in the sense that if fails to take full account of the human tendencies and ac- cidental events that may sometimes be crucial in what transpired. One reads of policies, declarations, and decisions as if they all came about in a rational and orderly manner. But when one lives through the kind of events that are recorded here, one is constantly reminded that a particular decision went a certain way because one person was tired or irritable that day, and that a critical vote was determined by the fact that a strong protagonist was absent at that particular meeting. As an example, thert;! is described in later pages how the whole elaborate faculty review procedure at Union began when Carter Davidson casually asked the Committee on the Standing of Students, at the end of a long meeting about students,. how much of a raise a particular professor should be given for the next year. In a similar vein, the presidential candidacy of one very talented man suddenly came to an end when his wife announced that she couldn't imagine living in the president's house on campus. The fact that the enrollment of the College is now set at two thousand is most probably because one trustee somenow hit upon this figure and argued for it year after year. A part of the inspiration for this book came from many evenings spent entertaining Wldergraduates in our home in North College. On such oc- casions, the conversations so often turned to questions about what happened in the \old days\ and we found that current students listen with great attention to descriptions of what life was like at the College for some of their predecessors. Interestingly, events and customs that prevailed only a few decades ago often elicit a reaction of SlU'prise, and sometimes almost disbelief. The current undergraduate finds it hard to believe that only a few short years ago there was something called required daily chapel, that entering first-year students went to Freshman Camp, and that the College would not allow a party that was not properly chaperoned. The list of earlier customs is a long one: Faculty Take-Off Day, parietal rules which prohibited the visiting of a young lady in a man's room, protest marches, a required course in hygiene, and so on. The reason for the writing of this book then,. was to paint a picture of what life was like at the college in the three decades just past, and there was a temptation to entitle the manuscript, \The Way It Was.\ rJ) I... ~ ., V) Cl co ....... I... cu J:: ... 0 L. co Cl co 0 >- 1/) <1.1 ... !... :::> 0 u E 0 J:: c.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Jannary 23, 1986 Foundtd at {Inion College 1817 --------- -------- On Time? Two or three years ago, the clock that towers above the Memorial Chapel kept everyone in tune with time on the Union campus and the perfect tone of chimes were a sweet sound at both noon and six o'clock. Now, however, the. clock that once symbolized efficiency and order is often ten or fifteen minutes slow and the bells are often off-key. Why doesn't the school take care of our clock? This fascinating structure that sits atop Memorial Chapel was built in 1926, and it is run by· a huge machine just for the clock. mechanization and, on a separate floor, a keyboard that plays the bells. Three years ago, the clock needed repairs, and was com- pletely dismantled and sent to Boston for restoration, which was paid for by alumni donations. Upon its return, it was in mint condition, however, it still needed weekly adjustments to keep it fUnctioning properly. An horologist from Schenectady became fascinated with our clock and donated his time in order to make these weekly adjustments. Then, in a \business administration\ decision, extra keys to the chapel were taken away and our clock expert friend was no longer permitted to make sure the clock ran perfectly! This whole story might seem absurd, but it is the reason why our clock does not run on time. By the same token, does anyone understand why our flag is always at half-mast? This tribute should be reserved for those honored individuals, however, the school, it seems is not concerned with this, as the flag stays in place, half-way up the flagpole for over a week at a time. The notion of these things has a more symbolic meaning, tl}ough. If the school's clock does not run on time, is the school running on time in an orderly and efficient way? Does this impress people who visit. the school and wonder why the clock doesn't work qr why the flag is at half-mast for no reason? Does this im- press the students? Cheated So many times in the past this space has whined about the apathy of our student body. And we very well could do so once again but it gets tiresome after a while. No, instead this space will be devoted to another body of apathetic souls,. our faculty. This is of particular interest to Concordiensis because faculty members rarely, if ever, participate in our publication. Contributions by the facUlty are always welcome, but we never seem to get any. When advice is given to us, it is not constructive, only critical. We believe that lack of participation in the campus newspaper (note the use of the word ''campus\ not just' 'student\) reflects a general lack of interest in campus life on the part of the faculty. It is sad enough that our 13:1 faculty-student ratio is down the drain. But, even in those glorious days when it was in near existence, the faculty neglected students in all but academics.It would be nice to sit down with a professor and chat for an hour. Or how about a lunch date or an invitation to a home-cooked meal? It seems as though our professors simply teach and that's it. Sure, they have office hours (which are kind of scarce anyway) but we are made to feel that they are solely for business, not pleasure. Some of the most effective teaching can be take place outside of the classroom. And, with a few exc~ptions, there are no professors who are willing to take some time out. So, we must ask: what is your hurrY? One need not wonder·why the effectiveness of public schools has diminished so drastically, when they can look at the apathy of those who teach in private institutions. Concordiensis, on behalf of a student body who feels somewhat cheated, has this to say to our sagacious gUides: you're accessible, but you're untouchable. LETTERS Violence Spurs Proposal To the Editor: The following is a proposal that has been submitted to the College Administration from the Women's Network, con- cerning expansion of the escort service provided to Union College students. While we applaud the in- termediate steps taken by Security to improve escort service, we feel that there is still much to be done. In writing today, we would ask the whole college community to read our proposal, and begin to think about our own security needs. For all of us to be safe, it is important that the whole campus become involved in both the set-up and use of such services. The Women's Net- work looks forward to a day when no student would ever walk at night, alone. Women's Network Proposal for the Union Student Escort Service Introduction: In light of the violent occurrences of the past week, we feel that there is a definite need for an effective system of protection for students. Due to this need, we submit the following recommendations for immediate attention and review by the Dean of Students and the College Administration. 1) To secure funds for the establishment of a permanent escort service. 2) This .permanent escort service will consist of student patrol officers, who will be thoroughly screened by a committee of students, Secur;ity and Safety Department per- sonnel, and staff, before being chosen for employment. 3) The chosen student patrol officers will be trained by the Union College Security and Safety Department, and in the . employ of the Union College. 4). The escort SerVice should be staffed by a large shift of escort officers during the heavy traffic hours (dusk until2 a.m.), and a smaller shift of escort officers should be on duty from 2 a.m. until dawn. 5) These escort officers should be provided with a desk stationed in an easily accessible location, such as the All Night Study section of Schaefer Library. We feel that easy access to escort officers, in person, will make use of the service comfortable and second nature. 6) A separate escort service phone number should be established, so that students requiring an escort can request one by phone. 7) Escort officers should be provided with radio walkie- talkies so that they could communicate with each other in receiving assignments, and to Security in times of emergency. 8) The escort service should be available to Union students living off-campus. ·· We are aware .of the 'frater- nity-run escort service that was in existence for a short period of time. We are opposed to ·a renewal of this type of ~ystem due to the lack of dedication and reliability of . a volunteer ser- vice. It is for this reason that we feel it is vital that the above points be implemented. It will be important to widely pubUcize the new ~ystem to ensure that students will make use of it. Thus, we make the following suggestions: 1) Immediate news release concerning the new escort service (i.e. Concordy, WRUC, etc.) 2) Immediate news releases concerning the occurrence of any new attacks on students. We found the January 12 release issued jointly by the Security and Safety Department and the Dean of Students office to be extremely helpful. 3) Signs and stickers with the escort service phone number, to be printed and then posted at strategic locations on campus. (All phones, dining halls, mailroom, etc.) 4) A kiosk-a central poster board center-placed in the · library plaza for this, and other important announcements. To achieve successful im- plementation and operation of this escort service, the Women's Network offers itself to help in any way possible. The Women's Network The Choice Is Ours, To the Editor: It is unfortunate that the majority of people on campus when contemplating our social dilemmas center on the un- changeable negatives-no pub, no pool, no alcohol, no alcohol, and, of course, no alcohol. I do, however, notice an interesting by-product of construction and illegality; people are thinking of things to attempt during the week and irlhibit over the weekend. The beginning of this term has furtunately shown me that many students will over- come our social obstacles. Having no Alumni Gym, for example, has provided us with an excellent opportunity to use the pool and raquetball courts of the Schenectady YMCA for the modest price of an ID card. There is thus a minority of students who have little time to complain about construction since they are enjoying free time on grade A requetball courts. If necessity is the mother of invention, than an improved soclallife at Union just might be the child of sobriety. In but two weeks the floor I live on has had the opportunity to go out for Japanese food, attend a dorm- wide ski trip, discuss the curricuhim with vislting faculty, participate in the· \Roomate Game,\ a dance in LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Coricordiensis Fox Lounge and a VCR night in Davidson Lounge. · Is illegality Mario's curse on our social life? I don't think so. Actual alcohol consumption remains at the status quo ante. It is only the locations of con- sumption and · the College's liability. that seems to have changed. Union may actually benefit from this law by becoming a school where ex- citing and innovative social programs are seen as alter- natives to shallow events centered around power drinking. The choice is ours. Sincerely, Jim Gigante, '86

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 0JDtt0tfbltttsfS LETTERS Fou~d at l fmon Co/leg~ 1877 --------- -------- On Time? Two or three years ago, the clock that towers above the Memorial Chapel kept everyone in tune with time on the Union campus and the perfect tone of chimes were a sweet sound at both noon and six o'clock. Now, however, the. clock that once symbolized efficiency and order is often ten or fifteen minutes slow and the bells are often off-key. Why doesn't the school take care of our clock? This fascinating structure that sits atop Memorial Chapel was built in 1926, and it is run by a huge machine just for the clock. mechanization and, on a separate floor, a keyboard that plays the bells. Three years ago, the clock needed repairs, and was com- pletely dismantled and sent to Boston for restoration, which was paid for by alumni donations. Upon its return, it was in mint condition, however, it still needed weekly adjustments to keep it functioning properly. An horologist from Schenectady became fascinated with our clock and donated his time in order to make these weekly adjustments. Then, in a ''business administration\ decision, extra keys to the chapel were taken away and our clock expert friend was no longer permitted to make sure the clock ran perfectly! This whole story might seem absurd, but it is the reason why our clock does not run on time. By the same token, does anyone understand why our flag is always at half-mast? This tribute should be reserved for those honored individuals, however, the school, it seems is not concerned with this, as the flag stays in place, half-way up the flagpole for over a week at a time. The notion of these things has a more symbolic meaning, tbough. If the school's clock does not run on time, is the school running on time in an orderly and efficient way? Does this impress people who visit the school and wonder why the clock doesn't work or why the flag is at half-mast for no reason? Does this im- press the students? Cheated So many times in the past this space has whined about the apathy of our student body. And we very well could do so once again but it gets tiresome after a while. No, instead this space will be devoted to another body of apathetic souls, our faculty. This is of particular interest to Concordiensis because faculty members rarely, if ever, participate in our publication. Contributions by the faculty are always welcome, but we never seem to get any. When advice is given to us, it is not constructive, only critical. We believe that lack of participation in the campus newspaper (note the use of the word \campus\ not just \student\), reflects a general lack of interest in campus life on the part of the faculty. It is sad enough that our 13: 1 faculty-student ratio is down the drain. But, even in those glorious days when it was in near existence, the faculty neglected students in all but academics.It would be nice to sit down with a professor and chat for an hour. Or how about a lunch date or an invitation to a home-cooked meal? It seems as though our professors simply teach and that's it. Sure, they have office hours (which are kind of scarce anyway) but we are made to feel that they are solely for business, not pleasure. Some of the most effective teaching can be take place outside of the classroom. And, with a few exceptions, there are no professors who are willing to take some time out. So, we must ask: what is your hurry? One need not wonder why the effectiveness of public schools has diminished so drastically, when they can look at the apathy of those who teach in private institutions. Concordiensis, on behalf of a student body who feels somewhat cheated, has this to say to our sagacious guides: you're accessible, but you're untouchable. Violence Spurs Proposal To the Editor: The following is a proposal that has been submitted to the College Administration from the Women's Network, con- cerning expansion of the escort service provided to Union College students. While we applaud the in- termediate steps taken by Security to improve escort service, we feel that there is still much to be done. In writing today, we would ask the whole college community to read our proposal, and begin to think about our own security needs. For all of us to be safe, it is important that the whole campus become involved in both the set-up and use of such services. The Women's Net- work looks forward to a day when no student would ever walk at night, alone. Women's Network Proposal for the Union Student Escort Service Introduction: In light of the violent occurrences of the past week, we feel that there is a definite need for an effective system of protection for students. Due to this need, we submit the following recommendations for immediate attention and review by the Dean of Students and the College Administration. 1) To secure funds for the establishment of a permanent escort service. 2) This permanent escort service will consist of student patrel officers, who will be thoroughly screened by a committee of students, Security and Safety Department per- sonnel, and staff, before being chesen for employment. 3) The chosen student patrol officers will be trained by the Union College Security and Safety Department, and in the employ of the Union College. 4) The escort service should be staffed by a large shift of escort officers during the heavy traffic hours (dusk until2 a.m.), and a smaller shift of escort officers should be on duty from 2 a.m. until dawn. 5) These escort officers should be provided with a desk stationed in an easily accessible location, such as the All Night Study section of Schaefer Library. We feel that easy access to escort officers, in person, will make use of the service comfortable and second nature. 6) A separate escort service phone number should be established, so that students requiring an escort can request one by phone. 7) Escort officers should be provided with radio walkie- talkies so that they could communicate with each other in receiving assignments, and to Security in times of emergency. 6) The escort service should be available to Union students living off·carnpus. We are aware ef the frater- nity-run escort service that was in existence for a short period of time. We are opposed to a renewal of this tYPe of system due to the lack of dedication and reliability of a volunteer ser- vice. It is for this reas<m that we feel it is vital that the above points be implemented. It will be important to widely publicize the new system to ensure that students will make use of it. Thus, we make the fellowing suggestions: 1) Immediate news release concerning the new escort service (i.e. Concordy, WRUC, etc.) 2) Immediate news releases concerning the occurrence of any new attacks on students. We found the January 12 release issued jointly by the Security and Safety Department and the Dean of Students office to be extremely helpful. 3) Signs and stickers with the escort service phone nwnber, to be printed and then posted at strategic locations on campus. (All phones, dining halls, mailroom, etc.) 4) A kiosk-a central poster board center-placed in the . library plaza for this, and other important announcements. To achieve successful im- plementation and operation of this escort service, the Women's Network offers itself to help in any way possible. The Women's Network The Choice Is Ours To the Editor: It is unfortunate that the majority of people on campus when contemplating our social dilemmas center on the un- changeable negatives-no pub, no pool, no alcohol, no alcohol, and, of course, no alcohol. I do, however, notice an interesting by-product of construction and illegality; people are thinking of things to attempt during the week and inhibit over the weekend. The beginning of this term has furtunately shown me that many students will over- come our social obstacles. Having no Ahunni Gym, for example, has provided us with an excellent opportunity to use the pool and raquetball courts of the Schenectady YMCA for the modest price of an ID card. There is thus a minority of students who have little time to complain about construction since they are enjoying free time on grade A requetball courts. If necessity is the mother of invention, than an improved social life at Union just might be the child of sobriety. In but two weeks the floor I live on has had the opportunity to go out for Japanese food, attend a dorm- wide ski trip, discuss the curriculum with visiting faculty, participate in the \Roomate Game,\ a dance in leHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Fox Lounge and a VCR night in Davidson Lounge. Is illegality Mario's curse on our social life? I don't think so. Actual alcohol consumption remains at the status quo ante. It is only the locations of con- sumption and the College's liability that seems to have changed. Union may actually benefit from this law by becoming a school where ex- citing and innovative social programs are seen as alter- natives to shallow events centered around power drinking. The choice is ours. Sincerely, Jim Gigante, '86 Editors-in-Chief Sarah Calderini, Jay Gt()£sman · News Editors Jan Baran. Maureen Coleman FeaturesEditors · Miekey·lradieyoLooAnnScbmidt . · Co.mm~ntary Page Editor Greg Fay Arts Editors Tod Dirllfuiek crunptm Page Editors

!!!! - ·- s If a n d e e y 0 e e e t ' ,, ' .. e Y' e e e 0 t ' .. ,, r e r f e f r 1 CONC_I)/{DJENSIS, January 23, 1986 Page 11 LETT.ERS Creativjty. Called For For The. Dean To the Editor: Although this letter is written to be read. by all of the Union comml!flity in the hope of resolvmg some serious problems on campus, i feel it is necessary for the ad- ministration to read this and to resp?nd ~o what I have· to say publlcly m the next edition of Concordiensis so that the entire campus can be made aware of tlie administration's position and can be brought into the process of creating viable social alternatives on ·campus. • It is evident by the new law and by the i.psurance problems faced by the college that the activities which marked our lives at Union in the past have changed drastically. The new drinking age dictates. that this must happen, and so we must ~ f~q other means by which to sociahze, relax, and enjoy the company of our friends I believe that central to thi~ is that such activities be focused on the campus itself, rather than in the bars of Schenectady . or any other spot where students feel they can congregate. The campus is our home and we all must be made to feel welcome in it and satisfied by it. Because it . is here for us, it mum be tailored to provide the kinds of options we demand of it within the confines of the law'. As a community, we trtily have a responsibility to provide for our own entertainment on thls campus in an area central to all students and faculty, and as well, accessible to all without r~ga~d t.o age. As the public distrtbutlon of alcohol is now out of the question, I believe that such an area can and should be set up immediately for the benefit of the entire campus. With the present construction projects dominating the ad- ministration's agenda, many feel as though the aspects of our campus that deserve more attention are being denied that very attention. Curriculum · reform and the hiring of pr?fessors don't appear to be gomg anywhere and classes are cut out, class sizes are inflated, and the substance of our 13:1 faculty: student ratio has been made a mockery. As well, student extracurricular and social needs appear to have been shoved to the bottom of Union's priorities. While all of this in fact may not be the case this is nevertheless the way it appears to many. We need to be reassured that someone is thinking of us and acting for us. We have no need for lip service. As it now stands the confrontational relationship between the administration and t~e students can yield very little. Were the relationship to change to a more com- passionate advisorial relationship, much more could be attempted and accomplished for the betterment of the campus and t~e enrichment of the students' lives. We have lost access to recreation facilities, to central meeting areas, to a campus free of cordons and to the social opportunities which used to exist. The students have had no real choice in this great com- promise. It is my hope that students, faculty, staff, and the administration can contribute their ideas in a positive way so. that the tensions which now exist and the present situation of having no ·place on this campus where students can publicly gather can be· remedied. As of this moment, we all know that the skellar cannot serve alcohol 1 and so it appears that because of this our favorite spot on campus h~s lost its appeal. Let's change that. Instead of closing the skellar at 9:30 every night, might it not be better to perhap~ leave it open later at night, furnish it with pool tables, and other game ·room facilities, and make it a public spot where students can at least go and have something to do. Last week's cabaret was held ~ ~he skell~r, and despite , the pitiful quality of the · sound equipment which we had to use becaus~ of the lack· of anything better, It was a great success. The· show was sold out, and we. found that the students do want something to do and want to be entertained together in a public area. I hope that the success of the cabare~ sta~f in. providing such a quallty diverSion for the campus is not overlooked. W~th the purchase of quality eqUipment, and equally as important, with the full support of the administration in providing such alternatives I believe that we can make' a ~reat di~ference on this campus m makmg our community a responsible arena for academic and social stimulation. It would be an embarrassment to our college to disenfranchise the entire student body because of a new drinking policy, and at· the same time, not offer another alternative to the soci~l needs of the campus at large. Another suggestion to ease some of the tension on campus most especially for the un: protecting students. The only areas left without .sufficient security are the Fox and J?avidson dorfils, hidden by the lip of the road in front of South. By stationing student security guards in the lounge, students would have an ample protection at hand, and any incidents occurring in front .of or near to the doors could immediately be reported to the security guards. Must incidents occur at these two locations before we decide to give them the protection they need? Must the women who live in these two dorms be forced to rely on the deterrent value of the men below them on the first floor who are locked in their hallway by a closed door? Must these women be forced to · b~lieve this is a campus under s~ege? As a former resident of fust floor Fox, I don't think I could have offered the security that is demanded. An added benefit would ac- crue to the residents who would be able to have access to the loung~s were they guarded by security. Fear of vandalism would be minimized with the presence .of the security guard and any illegal activity withu; could- as well be headed off w~ile still allowing students to enJoy ~hese excellent facilities. More Jobs on campus would be created by adding to the security forces and everyone wo~d benefit by their presence, residents and non-residents alike. I think that it is safe to say to the administration and to those on the faculty who have a concern for the students that is not limited by the four walls of our classrooms, and maybe even more prodrrctive to scream ... OUR MORALE IS LOW, WE ARE NOT HAPPY AND WE WANT A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER!! The To the Editor: Another eventful week on the Union College Campus has passed and inspired me to write what is called a \letter to the editor.\ I would personally like to take this opportunity to invite the Dean . to read this and respond. This is a letter to the Dean, not the editor. After all Dean Mammola, you took the time out to write to all of the stud.ents and faculty wnen you felt It was necessary to create a dull and morbid campus. Dean Mammola, the drinking age is 21 in N.Y. state, all of us know that, but we do not think it was ma_ndatory for your party policy to severely limit our social lives. I will talk about your party policy in a moment but first I would like to ask yo~ why the Skellar does not serve beer. As I said last week, not everyone is of age, but at least the Skellar would .serve as a social gathering place, somewhere to spend time with other students on campus. Serving beer would ensure the fact that at least a handful of students would always be there to socialize with. If you are so concerned about the school being sued when an underaged person drinks there and gets hurt, you could employ a security officer and not another student to check I. D.'s as people enter. Since last week, I have at- tended 5 gatherings of more than 50 people at various locations on campus. Don't you think it is a bit ridiculous for me to say that I attended .5 \illegal \underground\ social eve~ts. I am still not very clear as to the reasoning of your party policy of 50 people or the one guest per fraternity or sorority member. Why can't people ~pend time together at a fraternity· or sorority without that organization existing in fear. of being put on probation? \Ytthout a campus center, Umon has no place for students to meet one another and have fun .. Fraternity and sorority parties were the main source.of entertainment and enjoyment ?n this campus. Why are they illegal? Our social interaction sho~d not be equally as difficult as .It was to obtain alcohol durmg the prohibition, but if that is the way you want it to be Union College speakeasies wili evolve in the very near future. we cannot continue existing the way we do on this campus. Not only are the students on campus fed up, but the pro~essors on campus have noticed a deterioration of students' attitudes. Due to lack of social actiVities on campus the students seem to lead ~ dr~ary, unenthusiastic life which carries over into the classroom. Apathy seems to be the school's position pertaining to our social lives and in response, it is our unconscious respnse to cl_asses and learning. I was glad to see that the sch~ol is providing alternative social events such as the dance last Tuesday night, but how can you c.harge money to t:lttend? We S:i¥ pay a social fee as part of. tmt10n. What is being done wtth that money? Is it going towards new popcorn poppers at ~e Skellar? Or is the money bemg spent to hire more Security Personnel to make the campus a safer place. TELL ME DEAN MAMMOLA WHAT SHOULD ALL OF US DO THIS FRIDAY NIGHT? Name withheld for second Weekinarow. Sit- In Unnecessary . derclassmen who have felt the pinch the most, would be to open the lounges in Fox and Davidson. While., a great financial investment was made in their new appearance, students now are unable to enjoy them after 11 o'clock at night. While sixty-thousand dollars apiece is no trivial amount, I think it is reasonable to ask what the college's position on the hours of the new student ~ent~r :Will be after they spend SIX milliOn dollars on it. For fear of vandalism, they may be closed at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, just in time to preempt the suriset. pro.s~~ct of having new facibt~es at our disposal on ReUmon weekends just doesn't cut it for those who are now f~ding the~elves with very bttle attractive alternatives on To the Editor: held Mondays in the 3rd floor of Old Chapel at 7:30p.m. We are more. than .willing to put your good Ideas mto action and help fund them. For those who now live in Fox and Davidson without access to a televisi9n, they are presently unable to congregate in the lounge and watch Nightline or Johnny Carson. As well, access to either side of the dorm is made impossible by the locked doors of the lounge, and thus the ~est means of meeting students, · m . the dorms, is presently forbidden after 11. With the incidents of late involving attacks on campus, · student security forces have been made· even more valuable to. the protection of the students. Presently they are stationed in North and Richmond and they provide an excellent line of protection to the residents. While both Union security and student security patrol the campus and can view nearly every nook and cranny, the attacks prove this to be nevertheless insufficient in this campus. Let's use the creativity which we all have in fashioning alternatives for all to enjoy. The faster we begin this process, the earlier we will begin to reap the benefits of our ide~s. While I don't necessarily belteve that Concordiensis is the ?nly forum for these kinds of Ideas, I would like to see its pages . exploited by good suggestions from students for a be~er quality of life here at Umon, and I believe it com- p~etely appropriate that this dialogue be joined by the faculty, Deans and President Morris. Without their public p:micipation in this necessary dialogue, I don't believe that roue~ can be gained in im- prov~g our present dilemma. A public response from the administration would certainly add some spark · of en- couragement to those who most desperately need it. Sincerely, Jason Green, '&7 se·sure to VOTE! For· Freshman and Sophomore Reps. Friday, January 24 ,, Throughout the campus there has been talk of a sit-in, a rally, or some kind of protest in the Skellar. These actions would serve no purpose in my opinion if they concern alcohol in the Skellar, because they would not change New York State law. As a gesture of discontent for the lack of social alternatives on campus, they would be even foolish. What would we be asking the administration for-a ski trip? dances? Just something to do right? Well then,.why don't we do this ourselves? The Student Forum hears complaints but no suggestions. Our meetings are Credit should be given to Mrs. Marra and the Social Com- mittee headed by Ira Heffan for being the first on the ball to plan activities. We all feel the burden of construction and the new drinking age, but if we make the effo~ . to not only plan but participate, we can still enjoy an active social life here at Union. Sincerely, Chris Siler Pres.ofthe Student Forum Faculty-Student Meetings Succeed T9 the Editor: I want to thank all of those people who sponsored last Thursday night's faculty- student meetings, and especially those faculty wo cared enough to take time out · and just talk with the students. i know that my floormates and I got a great deal out of the two- hour discussion that ensued as a result of that meeting, and I hope that this program will be repeated in the future. ,Sincerely Ted Eveleth .All Letters to the Editor must -he typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication.. All Letters must be signed. but names will be withheld upon request.

r- ts >f a n d e e y .o :e 1e :s lf ;. e y e e e 0 It ;. r e r k v 1 ·- s r ' . ) CONfONDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 Page 11 Creativity Called For To the Editor: Although this letter is written to be read by an of the Union comm~ity in the hope of resolvmg some serious problems on campus, I feel it is necessary for the ad- ministration to read this and to resp?nd ~o what I have to say pubhcly m the next edition of Concordiensis so that the entire campus can be made aware of tile administration's position and can be brought into the process of creating viable social alternatives on campus. · It is evident by the new law and by the insurance problems faced by the college that the activities which marked our lives at Union in the past have changed drastically. The new drinking age dictates that this must happen, and so we must ~w f~~ other means by which to socialize, relax, and enjoy the company of our friends. I believe that central to this is that such activities be focused on the campus itself, rather than in the bars of Schenectady or any other spot where students feel they can congregate. The campus is our home and we all must be made to feel welcome in it and satisfied by it. Because it is here for us, it must be tailored to provide the kinds of options we demand of it within the confines of the law. As a community, we truly have a responsibility to provide for our own entertainment on th1s campus in an area central to all students and faculty, and as well, accessible to all without r~ga~d t.o age. As the public distribution of alcohol is now out of the question, I believe that such an area can and should be set up immediately for the ben~fit of the entire campus. With the present construction projects dominating the ad- ministration's agenda, many feel as though the aspects of our campus that deserve more attention are being denied that very attention. Curriculum reform and the hiring of pr?fessors don't appear to be gomg anywhere and classes are cut out, class sizes are inflated and the substance of our 13 :i faculty: student ratio has been made a mockery. As well, student extracurricular and social needs appear to have been shoved to the bottom of Union's priorities. While all of this in fact may not be the case this is nevertheless the way it appears to many. We need to be reassured that someone is thinking of us and acting for us. We have no need for lip service. As it now stands, the confrontational relationship between the administration and t~e students can yield very little. Were the relationship to change to a more com- passionate advisorial relationship, much more could be attempted and accomplished for the betterment of the campus and the enrichment of the students' lives. We have lost access to recreation facilities, to central meeting areas, to a campus free of cordons and to the social opportunities which used to exist. The students have had no real choice in this great coma promise. It is my hope that students, faculty, staff, and the administration can contribute their ideas in a positive way so that the tensions which now exist and the present situation of having no place on this campus where students can publicly gather can be· remedied. As of this moment, we all know that the skellar cannot serve alcohol, and so it appears that because of this, our favorite spot on campus has lost its appeal. Let's change that. Instead of closing the skellar at 9:30 every night, might it not be better to perhaps leave it open later at night, furnish it with pool tabl~~·. and other game room facilities, and make it a public spot where students can at least go and have something to do. Last week's cabaret was held in the skellar, and despite the pitiful quality of the s@und equipment which we had to use because of the lack· of anything better, it was a great success. The show was sold out, and we found that the students do want something to do and want to be entertained together in a public area. I hope that the success of the cabaret staff in providing such a quality diversion for the campus is not overlooked. W~th the purchase of quality equipment, and equally as important, with the full support of the administration in providing such alternatives I believe that we can make' a ~reat di~ference on this campus m makmg our community a responsible arena for academic and social stimulation. It would be an embarrassment to our college to disenfranchise the entire student body because of a new drinking policy and at the same time, not offer another alternative to the social needs of the campus at large. Another suggestion to ease some of the tension on campus most especially for the un: derclassmen who have felt the pinch the most, would be to open the lounges in Fox and Davidson. While a great financial investmeni was made in their new appearance students now are unable t~ enjoy them after 11 o'clock at night. While sixty-thousand dollars apiece is no trivial amount, I think it is reasonable to ask what the college's position on the hours of the new student center will be after they spend six million dollars on it. For fear of vandalism, they may be closed at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, just in time to preempt the sunset. For those who now live in Fox and Davidson without access to a television, they are presently unable to congregate in the lounge and watch Nightline or Johnny Carson. As well, access to either side of the dorm is made impossible by the locked doorsofthelounge,andthusthe best means of meeting students in the dorms, is presently forbidden after 11. With the incidents of late involving attacks on campus student security forces hav~ been made even more valuable to the protection of the students. Presently they are stationed in North and Richmond and they provide an excellent line of protection to the residents. While both Union security and student security patrol the campus and can view nearly every nook and cranny, the attacks prove this to be nevertheless insufficient in protecting stl:ldelilts. The only areas left without sufficient security are the Fox and Davidson dorms, hidden by the lip af the road in front of South. By stationing student security guards in the lounge, students would have an ample protection at hand, and any incidents occurring in front of or near to the doors could immediately be reported to the security guards. Must incidents occur at these two locations before we decide to give them the protection they need? Must the women who live in these two dorms be forced to rely on the deterrent value of the men below them on the first tloor who are locked in their hallway by a clesed door? Must these women be forced to b.elieve this is a campus under s!ege? As a former resident of first floor Fox, I don't think I could have offered the security that is demanded. An added benefit would ac- crue to the residents who would be able to have access to the loung~s were they guarded by secunty. Fear of vandalism would be minimized with the presence .of the security guard, and any Illegal activity within could. as well be headed off while still allowing students to enjoy these excellent facilities More jobs on campus would b~ created by adding to the security forces and everyone wo~d benefit by their presence, res1dents and non-residents alike. I think that it is safe to say to the administration and to those on the faculty who have a concern for the students that is not limited by the four walls of our classrooms, and maybe even more prodtrctive to scream ... OUR MORALE IS LOW, WE ARE NOT HAPPY AND WE WANT A CHANGE FOR THE BETTER! ! The pro.s~~ct of having new faciht~es at our disposal on ReUmon weekends just doesn't cut it for those who are now f!nding theJl!selves with very little attractive alternatives on this campus. Let's use the creativity which we all have in fashioning alternatives for all to enjoy. The faster we begin this process, the earlier we will begin to reap the benefits of our ide~s. While I don't necessarily believe that Concordiensis is the only forum for these kinds of ideas, I would like to see its pages exploited by good suggestions from students for a better quality of life here at Union, and I believe it com- pletely appropriate that this dialogue be joined by the faculty, Deans and President Mor~~· yYith?ut their public p~rticipatlon m this necessary dialogue, I don't believe that much can be gained in im- prov~g our present dilemma. A public response from the administration would certainly add some spark of en- couragement to those who most desperately need it. Sincerely, Jason Green, '87 Be Sure to VOTE! For Freshman and Sophomore Reps. Friday, January 24 LETTERS For The Dean To the Editor: Another eventful week on the Union College Campus has passed and inspired me to write what is called a \letter to the editor.'' I would personally like to take this opportunity to invite the Dean to read this and respond. This is a letter to the Dean, not the editor. After all Dean Mammola, you took the time out to write to all of the students and faculty when you felt it was necessary to create a dull and morbid campus. Dean Mammola, the drinking age is 21 in N.Y. state, an of us know that, but we do not think it was rna:ndatory for your party policy to severely Umit our social lives. I will talk about your party policy in a moment but first I would like to ask yo~ why the Skellar does not serve beer. As I said last week not . ' everyone IS of age, but at least the Skellar would set-ve as a social gathering place, somewhere to spend time with other students on campus. Serving beer would ensure the fact that at least a handful of students would always be there to socialize with. If you are so concerned about the school being sued when an underaged person drinks there and gets hurt, you could employ a security officer and not another student to check I. D.'s as people enter. Since last week, I have at- tended 5 gatherings of more than 50 people at various locations on campus. Don't you think it is a bit ridiculous for me to say that I attended 5 \illegal \underground\ social events. I am still not very clear as to the reasoning of your party policy of 50 people or the one guest per fraternity or sorority member. Why can't people spend time together at a fraternity or sorority without that organization existing in fear. of being put on probation? Without a campus center Union has no place for student~ to meet one another and have fun. . Fraternity and sorority parties were the main source of entertainment and enjoyment ?n this campus. Why are they illegal? Our social interaction sno~d not be equally as difficult as It was to obtain alcohol during the prohibition but if that is the way you want' it to be Union College speakeasies wili evolve in the very near future. We cannot continue existing the way we do on this campus. Not only are the students on campus fed up, but the pro~essors on campus have noticed a deterioration of students' attitudes. Due to lack of social activities on campus the students seem to lead ~ dreary, unenthusiastic life which carries over into the classroom. Apathy seems to be the school's positi?n pertaining to our social lives and in response, it is our unconscious respnse to cl_asses and learning. I was glad to see that the school is providing alternative social events such as the dance last Tuesday night, but how can you charge money to attend? We ~~1 pay a social fee as part o~ tmt10n. What is being done wtth that money? Is it going towards new popcorn poppers at ~he Skellar? Or is the money bemg spent to hire more Security Personnel to make the campus a safer place. TELL ME DEAN MAMMOLA vnlAT SHOULD ALL OF US DO THIS FRIDAY NIGHT? Name withheld for second Week ina row. Sit-In Unnecessary To the Editor: Throughout the campus there has bt~en t~lk of a sit-in, a rally, or some kmd of protest in the Skellar. These actions would ~erve no purpose in my opinion, 1f they concern alcohol in the Skellar, because they would not change New York State law. As a gesture of discontent for the lack of social alternatives on campus, they would be even foolish. 'l~a~ wou~d we be asking the admmistratiOn for-a ski trip? dances? Just something to do right? Well then, why don't w~ do this ourselves? The Student Forum hears complaints but no suggestions. Our meetings are held Mondays in the 3rd floor of Old Chapel at 7:30p.m. We are more. than _willing to put your good ideas mto action and help fund them. Credit should be given to Mrs. Marra and the Social Com- mittee headed by Ira Heffan for being the first on the ball to plan activities. We all feel the burden of construction and the new drinking age, but if we make the effor:t . to not only plan but part1c1pate, we can stili enjoy an active social life here at Union. Sincerely, Chris Siler Pres. of the Student Forum Faculty -Student Meetings Succeed To the Editor: I want to thank all of those people who sponsored last Thursday night's faculty- student meetings, and especially those faculty wo cared enough to take time out and just talk with the students. i know that my floormates and I got a great deal out of the two- hour discussion that ensued as a result of that meeting and I hope that this program' will be repeated in the future. Sincerely Ted Eveleth .All Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All Letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request.

CONCORDIENSIS~ January 23, 1986, . . An Apology To South Africa By BRIAN M. KELLY When one is asked about the Republic of South Africa, the first thing that probably comes to mind is the issue of Apar- thied. Whether or not one has an understanding of the situation in South Africa, he certainly would not recommend Apar· thied as an official domestic U.S . .policy. But, if he- was a frontiersman in search of a homestead or an entrepreneur seeking to capitalize on America's Manifest Destiny by connecting New York and San Jose via the locomotive, then he might change his mind. Unlike the blacks in South Africa the American Indian has had its claim on North America long before the white man had ever set foot on their soil. Who may I ask is calling the kettle black? Almost no one likes or benefits from Aparthied in its truest form, especially South Africa. To find enthusiasts for the oppression of race and religion, one woUld only need to travel to the Soviet Union where millions of Jews and political opponents have been im- prisoned in labor camps, subjugated to scientific and chemical warfare experiments, and, if survived, released from the battered Marxist economy through the process of genocide. Of course, the Soviet Union is not alone when it comes to \Equal Riglits.\ India may not purposely release lethal chemicals on its \citizens\ in order to gain a military edge in the internationally banned use of Chemical Warfare, but its . Caste system is much more resistant to the social· evolution of the Sudra than that of a white South African's political ad· vantage over a tribesman. South Africa's pre-colonial development is much different than that of the United States. Central and South America. Its countryside was not extensively inhabited by the tribal com- munities that were discovered by the English, Spanish, French, and other Europeans in the Americas. The Dutch, who settled around the Cape of Good Hope in the late 17th and into the 18th century, encountered few if any Blacks living in the southernmost region of the country. As they migrated north in the Great Trek of 1835-43-, they ran across the Zulu and other smaller tribal com- munities who just recently had established their homelands. It was not until the mines were opened and the railroads laid that the extensive migration of blacks occurred into the country. By then, the ,.J-,1{· ·. . ' ....._ __ Afrikaners (those of Dutch and Huguenot descent) had developed their own culture, language, and economy. They sought only to be freed of English Colonialism which occurred in 1931 with the establishment of the Republic of South Africa. One of the most misjudged assumptions about South Africa is that there exists a vast majority of blacks. The blacks ~re united only by pigment and m some common religious and political ideologies. They are represented by ten different tribes whose rivalries would cause blacks slaying blacks in the.struggle for tribal autonomy within any new parliamentary structure. The over five million Afrikans and British have had a difficult time keeping the synergism between the various coalitions that presently make up the government. U.S. involvement, since the advent of President Reagan's ''Constructive Engagement,\ has encouraged many reforms within the social, political and economical framework of the South African society. The new constitution has allowed representation of the three million coloreds (those of mixed black and white origin who do not share any tribal affiliations) and nearly one million Indians within the government. The almost twenty-two million blacks who represent ten dif. fernt tribes would certainly make a single centralized government almost impossible to maintain. The U.S. should not expect South Africa to evolve over- night. It took nearly 200 years for the U.S. to achieve the legal parity that now exists between the races, and we have yet so far to go. By trying to speed up the process of social evolution to reap results within a couple of years could only dictate the bloodshed that already has started to occur. Our presence within South Africa should be constructive and reinforcing to all its citizens. By divesting our assets and withdrawing our aid to the development of the black tribal units, we only subjugate the various tribes to come under the influence of violence through the ANC (a Marxist organization dedicated to the violent overthow of the South African Government) and other terrorist organizations who would eventually follow the path of Zimbabwe under President Robert Mugabe by the installation of a one party cm:nmunist state subject to subversion by the Soviet Union. {Jo COMMENTARIES . • . Guest Commentary As The World Changes By ROBERT J. MASSA The .sun still rises and .sets just about every day, more or less. We still get dressed every morning and go to sleep every night (albeit earlier than before). The Nott is located in exactly the same spot as it was last fall. But things have changed, and I hear from near and far that life at Union isn't what it used to be in the \old -days.\ . In the past six months, I have talked, read and thought about alcohol and liability more than I care to admit. It should not surprise anyone, therefore, that I initially accepted Concordy's invitation to write on the subject of Union's \New\ social life with some reluctance. It seems to me that it is time for all of us to stop lamenting and to start having fun again. Life at Union, at times, is not picnic, but life outside the gates is not much different. We all have things we have to do, goals we want to achieve; purposes we need to accomplish. We appreciate, I think, the times when we can retreat from the pressures and, for a few precious moments, enjoy a \carefree\ existence. The question for all of us, as a college community, is how we can enjoy this time in spite of Robert J. Masso ·is assistant dean of students. the changes. The- answer to me seems o~vious. Unfortunately, lawyers and plaintiffs alike have become somewhat more aggressive, and that impacts in a very real way on our financial future as a college, as student organizations and as in~ dividuals. So in a sense, even though few of us like it, we need to change to insure (no pun intended) our survival. That having been said, whose responsibility is it to change, anyway? From my- vantage point (admittedly not one which is intertwined in the fabric of the aaily existence of students at Union) it seems that everyone. has -a stake in the change. We have all become somewhat lazy in the business of creating organized \diver- sions\ from the pressures of our lives. Examples are easy to · find. The College has historically been content to leave a large part of the social environment on campus to tile Greeks. The Greeks, in g~neral, have done little i:nore than purchase fifteen kegs and invite the whole world. All of this has to change. Union College, an institution rich in tradition and history, was on the forefront of change many times in the, past, and it needs to be today. Student groups, notably the Forum's Social Committee, residence hall governance units, .as well as Greeks, must think beyond what is easy and create social activities with themes that Will appeal to many of our students. In addition, ''the ad- ministration,\ in conjunction with concerned' students; must continue to work with the community to make available exciting entertainment for all of us. As many may know, there are cur·rently two college committees working toward. this end.. They have aiready generated.some -excellent ideas. A look at the current week shows a packed calendar: three films, the freshman dinner, an all campus dance, and the Acts Improvisation Series. Th.ese committees deserve the support ' of and suggestions from aU Union students. College campuses across the State are wrestling with the same problems we face. Schenectady's winter and the lack of a College Center and gym make matters worse, of course, but I know we · can survive this period of transition and that we will emerge as a better institution becatise of it. Change is often painful but, like the coach who operates on the \no pain-no gain\ theory, it is now time for us to tackle the issues and develop creative . programs for the entire Union community. Students Fight Hunger By DARRYL BROWN WASHINGTON-When Bill Hoogterp finally returned my call, he was phoning from Philadelphia. I had left a ·message at the student center of Aquinas College in Grand Rapids, Michigan. He checks in there most days, now that he's always on the road. He said he had just come from Boston, Cleveland and Pittsburgh, and still had to make a stop in Buffalo before a swing down to Houston. And Hoogterp has a lot more stops on his \U.S. tour\ before he graduates in May. Actually, before April 19_, the day of the Hunger Clean-Up. This gung-ho senior finished his coursework for a degree in international studies last semester and is now driving around the country spreading the word about a good idea for a good cause. It's called the Hunger Clean-Up, begun last year by Grand Rapids students who had the novel thought of · raising money for hunger relief by a work-a-thon instead of a walk-a-thon. Last April students from all nine colleges in the city drummed up sponsors-- corporate as well as individual, which increased their earnings substantially-for their work in such chores as cleaning city parks, painting buildings and repairing houses. About 350 students volunteered, and they raised $10,000 in three hours. Half the money stayed in Grand Rapids to alleviate local hwtger, but the rest went for overseas famine relief via USA for Africa, because \we were very impressed with how they used the money/' In addition to the fundraising, th~ clean-up improved the town with free labor, instilled a bit more pride in the community, and smoothed town-gown relations. The Kellogg Co. was im· pressed enough to give the students a sizeable grant, which they've used to print how-to information and spread tb.e word to other campuses. That's what Hoogterp's road trip is for- ·to convince other schools to take up the ·idea, with local variations. So far more than 200 colleges in at least 25 states are planning a Hunger Clean-Up for April 19. Response, Hoogterp says, \has been terrific.\ Those interested can contact: The Hunger Clean-Up, Aquinas College, Grand Rapids, MI 49506. Hoogterp's project, though, is not the only one organizing students on hunger relief, or even the l~rgest. That honor goes to the National Student ·Campaign Agafust Hunger, an effort of those inimitable campus organizers, THE Public Interest Research Groups. The student-run PIRGs have the closest thing to the official project, too, in cooperation with USA for Africa. With the en.· dorsement of Lionel Richie, the campaign is called So Let's Start Giving. And students are. The campaign (which works closely with Hoogterp) has reached colleges in all 50 states, at roughly one college out of three. The emphasis is on education as much as fun- draising, on long-term relief as well as short-term. Grant money from USA for Africa will help students who establish long-term projects to solve local hunger, not only alleviate it. Some impressive efforts are bringing in considerable sums. In New Jersey, for instance, one Rutgers campus raised $17 ,00() through a rock concert, a miss- a-meal day at Which thousands skipped lunch and gave the money to famine relife, a Thanksgiving student drive tat grocery stores for food con· tributions, and a student-staffed food warehouse. Rob Stewart of the PIRG at New .Brunswick Rutgers campus says students are working on projects that win have enduring value. \We've pretty much dedicated our- selves to the community and some things that are going tD have an effect long-tenn,\ he says. \People really got more excited about working at hDme than for hunger in Africa.\ To that end they \use the com- munity's resources\ to set up, for instance, gardens in vacant lots with donated seeds. L()Cal groups give whatever portion they choose to the national campaign that goes to USA for Africa, which has a similar policy of funding farming and other long-term development pr~jects. For more infonnati..Qn, wrxte the National Student Campaign Against Hunger, 37 Temple Place., Boston; MA 02111. . The efforts of these students speak for themselves. To all those in the National Student Canipagn: tl;lough you hardly seem to need it, good luck. To Bill Hoogterp and friends, Godspeed. Be Sure to VOTE! For Freshman and s·ophomore Reps. Friday, January 24

s - w:ell '()Jid cial Will nts. ad- ion mst the rble ll of 1ere ege ard. ady Jas. eek tree an trts ese, 10rt aU the the ce. the md of ~an :ion s a ' it. ike the ;is the ive ion me 00() .ss- Ids the a tat on- ted at ers 1re viR 'Ve ur- ltid t() he lre me To ·m- ~p, mt cal ion ial ror lar nd lOt )0, lOt 37 lA ItS all lilt lly l'<l Is, CONCORDIE]VSIS, January23, 1986 Page 13 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Disease of the AIDieS By STEVE KONLIAN In the 1970's, this countl'Y was horrified with the threat .of contacting herpes. Now, only one decade later, the predominate fear pervading America is the deadly disease AIDS. However, some of the deadliness of the disease results from ignorance about the facts surrounding AIDS. Knowledge about AIDS will both dispel the fears and provide the best protection against the disease. To begin with, a basic, yet vital question must be an~ swered: \What exactly •is AIDS?\ In simplest terms, AIDS is the end result of a disease caused by a virus. This virus collapses the body's natural immunity against disease. The early symptoms of the AIDS process include swollen lymph glands, weight loss, fever, diarrhea, and unexplained bleeding and bruising. These symptoms are common ones, ~cing less serious ailments. As a reult, only a small percentage of patients with these symptoms will contract AIDS within five years. Patients with AIDS are exceptionally vulnerabl~ to opportunistic infections (named such because they take ad- vantage of the body's weakened state of immunity). The most common infections are Pneumocystis carinii, a fatal protozoan pneumonia; and Kaposi's sarcoma, a rare. cancer of the skin's blood vessels. Others are: herpes, toxoplasmosis, shingles, tuberculosis, and thl'ush (a thick whitish coating of · tne · tongue or throat). The AIDS virus was first isolated in 1983, and has been giventhe name HTLV-III-LAV. This HTLV-IU-LAV virus kills certain cells in the patient's immune system, called Thelper cells. The function · of the T helper cells is to communicate between the cells that initiate the inunune reaction and those that shut it off again. Without T helper cells, the body has no way to combat infection and the AIDS patient eventually dies. It is this association between the HTLV-111-LAV virus and the T helper cells that account for the distribution of AIDS victims in certain groups. Sexually active homosexual and bisexual men accolll).t for 73 percent of vic- tims, while intravenous drug users rnake· up 17 percent. The other 10 percent is made up of scattered groups such as: Haitians., hemophiliacs, and .people who have received blood transfusions. The good news for most . people is that the in· cidence of AIDS outside these risk groups is approximately one in a million. The biggest question is, \How . do you catch AIDS?\ To cause infection the virus needs to be passed directly from one body fluid to another. More specifically, HTLV-III-LAV live in the T helper. The T helper cells are white blood cells, or lymphocytes. Most body fluids contain lymphocytes, so the virus has been found in blood, semen, saliva, and tears. Lymphocytes, and the virus, concentrate most heavily in the blood and semen. This is im- . portant in understanding why h.omosexuals, IV drug users, and blood transfusion patients are at such great risks. HERPES QUIZ . Do you have Herpes? Whether you do or don't is of little consequence, except for variously interested third party groups who are on a need to know basis. Nonetheless, misconceptions about Herpes need to be exposed. Try this self-examination as . courteously supplied by the Union College Health Services. . · 1. Ttre incidence of herpes is increased among college students. . . TocF 2. Herpes is a virus. . . . T or F 3. Venereal warts and genital herpes are the same thing. TorF 4. Herpes can be transmitted by . oral-genital contact. TorF 5. When inactive, herpes lies dormant in the nerve cells. TorF 6. It is possible to have an active herpes infection without • noticeable symptoms. . T~F 7. Emotional stress cart cause herpes recurrences. TorF · 8. There is now a cure for genital herpes. . T~F 9. All people with genital herpes will have recurrences of the · disease. TorF 10. When a person has an active herpes sore he/she Is aiways contagious. Tor F 11. Genital herpes causes cervical cancer in women. TorF .12. Herpes recurrences generally get progressively more severe after the first infection. . TorF 13. Women with genital herpes need to have Pap Smears more ·frequently than women who do not have herpes. · · · TorF 14. Caesarean sections are recommended for all pregnant women who have ever had genital herpes. TorF Answers (1) T. (2) T. (3) F. (4) T. (5) T. (6) T. (7) T~ (8) F. (9) F. (10) T. (11) F. (12) F. (13) T. (14) F. The Science, Health, and Techn.ology page is a· new section that will appear in Concordiensis . on a bi-weekly basis. Finally, in the treatment of AIDS, thus far, there have been no drugs available to cure the . virus,· nor has a vaccine ·been developed. The treatment of AIDS at this time is directed at the specific opportunistic in- fections or cancer which develops as a consequence of the virus. Misconceptions about AIDS transmission: -AIDS is not transmitted through sneezing, coughing, eating or drinking from com- mon utensils, or merely being around an infected person for a long time. ~AIDS is not transmitted by kissing. -AIDS cannot be contracted by donating blood. · -AIDS is not transmitted thr.ough the air, food or water, or by touching any object handled, touched or breathed on by an AIDS patient. Pbnned · P~renthoad. -~ The Col\d Hard Facts By ADAM J. HELFAND Aah-choo, got a cold? You are in good company! In the U.S. there are approximately 100 million disabling cases each year, which cause 250 million unproductive days, and 30 million lost work and school days. Colds are not only nuisances, but are also a burden to the American economy. Fear not, however, for help is on the way! You see, that annoying little cold you had last week is part of a billion dollar market (those bottles of Comtrex and Rubuttussin sure add up!), that woUld earn fortunes for those that marketed a CUfe for the \common cold.\ The search for the cure is not new. The Roman scholar Pliny the Elder prescribed kissing a mouse's hairy muzzle as the cure. Bleeding and electric shock were primitive methods suggested by early physicians, and.how could I possibly forget to ·mention the mysterious healing powers of chicken soup. My favorite remedy, as proposed by Sir William Osler, is \Go to bed. Put a hat on the bedpost. Drink whiskey until you see two hats.\ Research concerning this remedy has been proposed. On a slightly more technical front, researchers at Purdue University and the University of Wisconsin have shed light on the previously unknown structure of the cold virus, the rhinovirus 14, using a high energy x-rays in conjunction with rna cromolecular crystalogr- aphy. It appears that the RV-14 is imperviable to vaccines because of its multiple. an- tigenic sites which have the ability to stay ahead of the vaccine's· anitbodies. Research is also being done on antiviral agents which can disrupt a virus' life cycle. One such antiviral drug, WIN 51,711 disoxaril, interacts with the viral protein coat and prevents it from shedding. Since a cold virus cannot invade its host cell without shedding its outer protein \garment\ the infection is stopped cold (pardon the pun). Its use in animals is presently under investigation. Interferon, a word you may have heard in relation to can- cer, is being tested for its usefullness in the prevention of colds. It has been determined that large doses of interferon administered through the nasal passages might prevent colds or lessen their duration. The product's practicality and marketability are presently being studied. Who hasn't had a loved one warn, \Bundle up or you'll catch cold\? Well for those that have, it's goodbye to yet an9ther myth, for researchers have proven that experiencing a chill has no effect on the development of colds (pneumonia, however, is another story). It has been determined that colds are transmitted primarily through hand-to-hand contact, not through airborne particles. It is thus possible to prevent the further spread of the virus by thorough hand washing. Researchers have also em- firmed that kissing is a relatively inefficient means of spreading colds because most of the virus ·shed from the nasal mucosa. Fellow cold sufferers, take heart, for the common cold's days may well be numbered. Until then, drink lots of liquids, get plenty of bed rest, and remember kissing does not cause colds. Through The Hawk's Eye By BENJAMIN HAFI'EL +Breast Cancer strikes 90,000 American women every year. One out of every 13 women will contract breast cancer during her lifetime. Breat Cancer also strikes men but very in- frequently. +Herpes recurrence can be caused by emotional stress, lack of sleep, poor diet, sexual relations (surprise, surprise) , and even ridiculously enough- too much sun and friction from wearing tight jeans and leotards. +One of the greatest myths about cocaine is that use of it improves sexual relations. Au contraire. Repeated use of cocaine can cause impotence and other sexual problems. Chronic use can cause a com- plete loss of interest in sex. +Cocaine can cause dramatic fluctuations in blood pressure, as well as heart and breathing rates. Small amounts may cause the body to exceed its own limits, sometimes resulting in death. +Facts about AIDS. -Nearly 75 percent of people with AIDS are gay or bisexual men with multiple sex partners. -At present, there are no reported cases of health care workers contracting AIDS as a result of caring for AIDS patients. · -There is less than a 1 in 1,000,000 chance of getting AIDS by rece1vmg a blood tran- sfusion. -You cannot get AIDS from donating blood (What about toilet seats?) There is no known cure for AIDS. 46 percent of the people who have been diagnosed as having AIDS are now dead. 86 percent of those diagnosed as having AIDS three years ago are dead. +Doctors have determined that taking contraceptive pills is accociated with high blood pressure in women. +Nearly 34 million Americans-about one in six-- suffers from hi-gh blood pressure and nearly half of those are women. (Watch what you eat, ladies.) The Biology Department and Biology Club . Present Leona Cohen-Gould, M.S.* Senior Researcher, Albert Einstein Medical College \Applications of Elect~on Microscopy in Heart Research\ Tuesday, January 21,1986-4:30 p.m. Room SSl17 Refreshments 4:00p.m. Host: G. Smith *Graduate of Union COllege .'

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 THE ARTS Sunday, January 19 brought cellist Yo-Yo Ma to Proctor's. lmprov Series As the second of the Winter Improvisation Series of con- certs, Union College will present the Jeff Pressiaff Jazz Quartet, featuring J,eff Pressiaff on piano and trom- bone; George Brooks, saxophones; Wes Brown, string bass and piano; and David Nelson, drwns. The Quartet will play old and new jazz standards as well as several original pieces by Mr. Pressiaff aJ!d the other members of the band. Versatility is a prime feature of this ensemble. Each musician is a multi- instrumentalist, and each has · contributed his own original compositions to the group's repertoire. Jeff Pressiaff , who now lives in Schenectady, has composed, played, and a range of music from traditional and experimental jazz to modern classical to the music of South India. His concert of Improvisations with Piano and Drums, whicb was heard last year at Union, was described by the college paper as \original and energetic musical expression.\ (Con- eordienses 4-25-85) He has studied and performed with such noted jazz artists as Benny Carter and Bill Barron, has recorded and produced his own solo album \I Will Listen\ and has taught all kinds of music at Bard College since 1978. George Brooks is a musician who has played lead alto for Jaki Byard's \Apollo Stom- pers\ toured andrecorded with the gospel band \Infinity\, and was featured on Jeff's album. He has studied Indian music with Pandit Pran Nath, per- formed with sitarist Krishna Bhatt and tablist Zakir Hessein, and has recently been featured with Terry Riley's ensemble. Bassist Wes Brown was last heard ar Union with the African high-life band \Talking Drums\. His jazz credentials are also substantial: he has toured with Earl 'Fatha' Hines, and is frequently featured with drummer Ed Blackwell and saxophonist Bill Barron. David Neslon is known to the Indian community as one of the few American masters of the \mridangam\--the South Indian double-headed drum. This experience has served him well since he has turned his attention to the drum set, making him one of the more original voices in jazz drum- ming today. He was last heard in the area as the other half of ''Improvisations with_Pi~mo and Drums\ with Jeff Pressiaff .. The concert will be at 7:30 p.m., Friday, January 24, 1986, in the Arts Department Per- forming Arts Studio in the Arts Dept. Building at Union College. Admission is free and free parking may be found in the lot at the corner of Nott St. and Seward Place. Call 370-6202 for more information. Gamet Minstrelles formed ... Cellist Virtuo,so Yo-Yo Ma By JANICE C. THOMPSON World-famous cellist virtuoso Yo-Yo Ma, conductor~composer Krzysztof Penderecki, and the 110-member Cracow Philharmoaic orchestra were in concert on Proctor's stage Sunday, Jaauary 19, at 7 p.m. Their performance was billed as a ''triple star ticket\ and we were not disappointed. Those who came to Proctor's expecting an \an evening of Yo- Yo Ma\ were surprised to discover that the first part of the concert featured Pen- derecki and his compositions. The first of his pieces, \The Awakening of Jacob'', takes as its text Genesis 28:16: \Jacob woke from his sleep and said, 'Truly the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it.'\ The work was anything but a mere prelude to Ma's later entrance. The audience became intrigued and involved with ''The Awakening .... \ frOIJ;l the beginning, with the brass \Section •s· long, deep, rich, swelling chords. The piece starts quietly, calmly, ·then steadily increases in volume, dissonance and force until it finally ends in much tne same way it hagan, fadin& into nothingness. The separate sections of the orchestra seem to work independently of each other, but the disconnectedness and illogic somehow come together to produce a whole that reveals a tone that is tragic, yearning and sad. In the words of Wolfram Schwinger, \the composer has moved from the realm of tonal planes to the realm of melody.\ Yo- Yo Ma took the stage and \shared the spotlight\ with Penderecki for Penderecki'S \Cello Concerto No. 2\. The Concerto opens with the sec- tions of the orchestra taking turns in playing different themes that they repeat throughout the piece: the violins play a series of short, dissonant, uncertain, repeated notes, while the cellos descend in a scale ;pattern. This \taking turns\ concept is characteristic of the entire Concerto: there is a continuing dialog between sections, between Ma and the entire orchestra, and between Ma and separate sections (particularly brilliant was between Ma and the perti cussion}. . Once Ma began to play, the audience's eye was im~ mediately drawn to him, while the orchestra seemed to move away from focus. The artist and the art were rarely separate entities; he, the cello, and the music seemed to combine to produce a unified whole. Ma lived up to his reputation as he skillfully worked through the very numerous changes that the Concerto embodies. The audience could never rest; we were constantly expecting the next transition in tone and tempo. Both the soloist and the orchestra were at one time serene and contemplative then extremely ag.itated and tense, then miljtant and certain. Finally, all the tempos slowed and the audience audibly breathed a sigh of relief as all musical sound faded into calm. After the intermission, the second half of the conceq; was entirely comprised of Shostakovich's \Symphony No. 6, Op. 54, in b minor\. After the very contemporary music of Penderecki, Shostakovich was expected to be more soothing and traditlonal. Fortunately, such was not the case. In fact, the audience continued to enjoy many of the sa:me devices that Penderecki employed: a tragic, poignant tone which undergoes many transitions, tempo changes, repeated notes and themes, sections of the or- chestra seemingly independent from each other, and the end fading into silence. As in the first hall of the program, the changing modes attracted the audience .into becoming emotionally and musically involved in the music. Thus, the concert was an active, r~ther than passive, experience. Krzysztof PendereckJ was born in Debica; Poland in 1~33. He graduated from the State College of Music in CracDwwith honors in 1958. He st11died com positive with F. Skilyszewswski, A. Malawski and St. Wiechowicz. In 1959,he rose to prominence viltually overnight when he was awarded the three top prizes in the Youth Circle of the AssociatiDn of Polish Composers compEtiti()n. . His vast artistic output inc:llldEs compositions of operas,. C()n- certos, cantatas, oratorios and chamber mu8ic. Yo- Yo Ma gave his first public recital at the age of :five and by the time he was nineteen, he was being C()m- pared with such mastEr-s as Rostropovich and Casals. R.e is now thirty, and one of the lll()St sought-after instrwnentalists .in the world. He began his cEllo studies with his father at the age of four. Later, he stucliecl with Janos Scholz and in 1~2 he entered the Juilliard Scho~l and began his studies with Le()n~rd Rose. He is a graduatE ()f Harvard University. The Cracow Philharmo11ic gave its first performaneE on February 3, 1945. In over f()J.ty years, the orchestra has achieved a high artistic sU.n· dard with concerts led lly conductors of internatio11al standing. Guest conductors that have · -appeared · with · tl1e Philharmonic include Kyril Kondrashin and Raf;ael Kubelik. In all, the concert was thoroughly entertaining. We were given the welcome: op- portunity to enjoy not oiJly tile ~great talent of Yo- Yo Ma, but also the contemporary com- positions of Penderecki and tile clarity and unity of the Craeow Philharmonic. · Union's New Vocal Group Newman Cabaret On Thursday, January 23 Newman Club will sponsor a Cabaret to aid. the Covenant House. Father Bruce Ritter founded Covenant House, in the Times Square District of New York City, to give youths on the street another chance. So often runaways are left with the single option of working the streets-an option Covenant House wants to eliminate. \There is an absolute, direct relationship between por- nography and what happens to these children,\ Ritter says. chopped in a dozen pieces and distributed through New York and New Jersey in Chiistrnas packages. Stories abound .of children, who after bein~ in- jected with drugs by their pimps, are simply bougbt and sold like merchandise, tortured, imprisoned, and killed. By MARY CARROLE There's a new vocal group on campus! The Garnet Ministrelles, an all-woman a cappella group, has been for- med as an off-shoot ofthe Union lllllilllllilllllllllllilll 111111111111 illlllllllllili UIIJ/111111 1111111111111 t~:: I InFt. ~ ~ La:~:~~ale ~ \' Oceanfront I iHoliday Inn Beach! I ~ = = ~ 5 = = 5 5 $259/pp. quad. 1 ~ :. = = = '= = :: ~ Limited space E - ~ 5 available. e ~ ~ = = ~ ~ ~ BEACHCOMBER ~ : TOURS, INC. -~_=_::_ j 1325 Millersport Highway, ~ Williamsville, NY 14211 ~ ;;;. (716) 632-3723 = ;;:. ~ ~ !lilllilllillll I I Ill llllllllllllllllllllllllililllllllllilllllllllllllll! College Choir. The idea of an all-female select group had been tossed around for several years. After all, there is a precedent, the all- male Dutch Pipers, but there has not yet been a female equivalent to this group. No real action had been taken until this fall, when junior Drena Webster began organizing the group. The Gamet Minstrelles, eight of whom are current or former Choir officers; began rehear- sing in October. One obstacle to the group's progress has been the lack of \fun\ music written for women. Drena Webster has managed to collect a variety of music from various sources, including her high school chorus director. Unfortunately, the 4 group's repertoire is still relatively small. In spite of this, the musical styles of the songs are quite varied, ranging from the vanpy \Big Spender\ to ballads such as \Danny Boy\ to songs sung by the girl groups of the sixties (\One Fine Day\) to the Union College songs. All songs are sung without accompaniment, and this allows for a very close harmony of voic~ parts. The songs are arranged for two- to four-part harmony. The soprano voices of Joanne Giambo, Paula Nadeau, Sharon Panas, Debbie Thomp- son, and Drena Webster blend well with each other and with the lower, alto voices of Mary Carroll, Tricia Feeney, Deni Rightmire, and Janice Thompson. Soon the Minstrelles . will be petitioning the committee on conunittees to allow the group to become an official Union College club. Prof. Hugh Allen Wilson, director of th·e Union 'College Choir, has agreed to be the Minstrelles' faculty advisor. Rehearsals are .entirely student-run and have thus far been informally organized. Of the nine founding members, four are seniors and two are juniors. This indicates that there will be a rapid tum-over of members over the next few years. Official club status will enstlre the continuation of the Gamet Minstrelles long after the original members have graduated. It will also allow the group to submit a budget and to purchase additional music. The Garnet Minstrelles performed informally at Delta Gamma (Drena Webster's sorority) in November. Their official debut will be on Thur- sday, January 30, when they will be the first act of cabaret. It promises to be a performance filled with style, harmony, and even humor. Hope to see you there!! The stories of these children are endless: a 14-year-old boy having escaped from a hotel where he had been impri~oned for six weeks, was being chased by a pimp waving a broken bottle. A 10-year-old arrived carrying the toy cars and trucks his customers had given him as payment. Veronica, an 11-year- old girl, was arrested for prostitution eight times, yet the authorities never bothered to determine her age. Each time her pimp paid her $100 fine and put her back on the street, Veronica was thrown out of a lOth story window and killed, by either her pimp or a customer, shortly before her 12th bir- thday. A 17-year-old girl, who had trouble earning the $200 a night her pimp demanded, disappeared around Christmas time. Her body was found Covenant House· is largely supported by private don~tiilrts; that is why the Newman Qllb is sponsoring this Cabaret •. Cllris Siler, Jim Harvard, Debbie Eisenberg, Tom Christo;pher, and the band The Innerreflexions of Virginia Wolf (Scott WoU, Virginia WoJf, Jim Wolf, Cralg Wolf, Dan Wolf, ;and Tim Wolf) will performa at Old Chapel at 10:00 p.m. TickEts are $2.00 each and all proceeds \WiU benefit Covenant House. On Monday, January 27 at 7: 00 p.m. a speaker :fr-om Covenant House will disc:uss the Realities of Covenant llc11se: Its. Successes and Its Faillll'es in the Music Room and ill the Library. Please plan to attend. · Be Sure to VOTE! For Freshman a net Sophomore Reps. Friday, January :24 I.

- :he lEl' as 33. tte ith led F. !iki be Uy led rth of )D. - [ES )D- nd rst :ve ras m- as is )St in llo he ed he nd rd <Jf .ic [)n ty as n~ ~y al at 1e .·il el llS ·re 'P\ ile ut n· lie IW nd 1rk 1BS ·Of [n- eir nd ~d. ~ly ts; lis ris >ie ~r. he olf im nd Hd 1re dU at liD :he 1e: in he I. - CONCORDIENSIS, January23, 1986 Page 15 THE ARTS There Was Fun To Be Had By ILYSSE FEINGOLD emotion~filled voice hypnotized the audience at other intervals If negative comments such as he seemed to develop a problem \This is so bad there is no beer with voice projection. here\ and ''Who wants .it in tile Sometimes his voice faded from skeUer anyway,_ the acoustics heating. are lousy\ were any indication Wendy's clear resonant of the majority of students' soprano voice blended splen- felings about attending the first didly with Jim's tonality; cabaret of winter term, it could however, she often contributed have beEn a grueling ex:- to Jim's problem of not being perience for both the per- heard. Since her voice was high formers and the audience. it carried without a conscious At 12:3(), and after 2¥2 hours need to project it. SincE she of music, t}le foreign and sang direct~y into the rejec;ted atmosphere which this microphone, she must he cabaret started in had been careful to respect Jim and not converted to a rather cozy and overpower him. comfortable setting. Wendy gracefully managed Although Jim Havard and the high soprano notes in Wendy Richards began their \Sweet Baby James\. One of perfonnancepromptly at 10:00, my favorites was ''Sir due to some technical dif• Galahad\. The audience ficulties they delayed con- reminisced; swayed, and softly tinning. John Zuk, the M;C,, sang during ''Father and Son\. filled space with comments Lisa Kreger, also .a soprano, such as \changes on campus helped Jim and Wendy sing are moving along.\ This \Venture Highway\ a song by statement was qUite ironic and America. The two girls bopped i,nappropdate considering that heads together and ex::changed he previously apologized for the positive glances. The two.part tro11ble with the sound system harmony worked well. Maybe and remarked that \we will we will be hearing more of Lisa have to settle in.\ · with these two. John continued with ''the Act Two welcomed the alumni gym is looking spiffy\ \Greenwich Village\ looking, and reading from Concordy. confident and very talented The audience was grateful by Dave Provost whose attire was the time Jim and Wendy jeans, a Hard Rock Cafe tqshirt, rescued us from our boredom. and a tweed jacket. Dave By playing selections of Cat opened by playing two songs Stevens, James Taylor and that he wrote. He dedicated the Linda Ronstadt, Jim and Wendy second to rui absent admirer. projected a kind of mellowness It was clear that ·this song and peacefUlness on what had which contained the lyric \I'm been;~ somber skeeler over the· . -not. going to let.· myr, broken · past few days. --r dreams get to me,\ came from It was interesting to watch the his heart. Although his Fiji eye contact in which Jim and brothers chuckled at Dave's Wendy engaged. A smile and a momentary memory loss, of the nod noted approval,. while verse which he constructed five Wendy's swaing expressed her minutes before curtain, this was ease and satisfaction. - only.another indication that this Although for the most part artist was very connected to his Jim's soothing, warm, and . <aterial. \Saturday Night Live's\ Billy Crystal· performed to a packed, laughing crowd at Proctor's on Saturday, Jan. 18. PHONES~ 372-7270 .:37().3735 ·HOME STYLE·· P'IZZA FEATURING ORCERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET & VAN ANTWEFU* RO. · ' SCHENECTADY, N.Y. Dave introduced Andy Lip- man, a Fiji pledge, to assist him with the rest of his musical program which included the Eagles, Beatles,. Pink Floyd, Neil Young, and Eric Clapton, Dave's threatening voice with overtones of brotherly love instructed him to \play well or else.\ It was evident that Andy .seemed slightly wary as he sang softly and carefully watched his guitar plucking. Andy was an asset to Dave; When they were not playing together, Andy played the bass or the back-up for Dave's musical interlude in the Eagles song. Dave recaptured the \old\ skeller when he played the song Good Love .from the movie, The . Big Chill. He had the ability to · arouse the crowd so that they sang uninhibitedly. He con- tinued the sing-a-long with John Cougar music. A guest appearance by Adam Rosman put a wonderful evening to a superb end. Adam, who prefaced his act with \I can't sing,\ went ahead to sing, Go, Johnny, Go and Leroy Brown, combined with limbo and· twists and turns. These dance steps contributed to his full intent of doing \something wild and crazy\. It was quite apparent that Adam has a love for performing. People remarked, \he'll do anything! That's him, .rio different in person than on the stage! \ The evening terminated with the song, Twist. and Shout,. Two Tfi.-Delta pledges · ;wer.e harassed into· singing background while the rest of the inspired audience joined in creating rowdiness. The skellfi)r may have lost its ability to serve beer; however, on Thursday, January 16, it served as a meeting place for students who ... got into the beat! \ Dave Provost performed for Cabaret in the Skelle~r to a psyched crowd. J WRUC Do not turn the page ... It's The WRUC Top 8.97! These were. the most frequently played albmns this past week at WRUC, the only station that mattex:s in Schenectady. Every listener should clip and save this listing. Try to collect the whole set. Trade with your friends . . . call up your favorite WRUC D.J. and request your favorite new music at 370-6151. You can actually affed the outcome of next week's chart. Position Artist Album Label Last Week 1. Big Audio Dynamite- This is . . . Colutnbia-3 2. Echo &the Bunnymen-''Dancing Horses'' Sire-6 3. Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Tirne-2 4. Alarm~trength · · IRS-4 5. Simple Minds-Once Upon A Time A&M 6. INXS~Listen Like Thieves Atlantic-5 7. The CUlt-Love Sire-1 8. Beastie Boys-\She's On It\ DefJsrn-8.97 8.97. Dead Kennedys-Franken/Christ Altertent Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director Crystal. at Proctor!ls By DOUG LLOYD This past weekend \Saturday Night Live's\ Billy Crystal appeared in Schenectady and it remains dubious as to whether any member of the huge audiences that helped fill the back to back shows at Proctors Theatre, left unhappy. Due to Billy Crystal's popularity, a second show was added and both were sold out. Dan Riley, Crystal's opening act, did nothing to tarnish· the show as he executed his style as a singer-comedian. His brilliant impressions of Julio Iglesias, Torn Jones and Slim Whitman kept the audience In stitches while leading up to his grand finale. This finale, a mimicry of Led Zeppelin's \Whole Lotta Love\ alerted the audience to Riley's musical talent and easily made him a crowd favorite. It did not take long, however, for the crowd to become en- tranced in the voice of Crystal's \Fernando\ which opened his act. ''Dahling, you look mah- velous\ were all the words needed to start the audience laughing a~d thiS continued throughout the 2%-hour sho~. The Long Island native has mastered the voices of such celebrities as Muhanunad Ali, Howard Cosell, and Sammy Davis Jr. which he entwines with the personalities that he has made up. These per- sonalities are the well-known 'Willie', the masochistic nerd, 83-year-old 'Julius', his sup- posed grandfather, and 'Ricky' of \it's unbeweavable' fame. As for the laughs, Billy deserves all the applause as he is his own writer. This rare talent has sent him to stardom in a relatively short time. Most of America knows him best from t.v.'s sitcom 'Soap', where he played the character of Jodie Dallas. Since then, he has had his own specials on pay and non-pay t.v. and fulfilled a childhood dream while hosting an NBC special by playing catch with ex-N. Y. Yankee great, Mickey Mantle. Crystal swears he woUld drop comedy in a minute to plliy shortstop for the Yankees. As for Saturday•s most ap- plauded works, the winners were 'Willie', 'Julius', and Howard Cosell. 'Willie' \I-I-I hate it when that happens\ is so original and the strange objects he brutalizes his body with is what makes this so unbearably funny. '83-year-old Julius' was also a riot with his severe problem with breaking wind and small vocals. His vocab consisted of, \Shut up (gas) Goddamit (gas) you (gas, gas) Bastard,\ in vintage BI;ooklyn accent. Due to the loud passing of wind, Billy referred to Julius as his morning alarm clock and later as a very romatic lover to his wife, Billy's grandmother. The joke here is that ·Julius' wife is across the room and the senile old man does not realize that he is missing a partner until it is too late. And finally, the impressions done on Howard Cosell were great. His loud 'right here' is well known to all sports fans and is the applause getter in this routine. While interviewing Marvelous Marvin Hagler, Cosell refers to highlights of a fight and while speaking normal, Cosell sud- denly shouts the words 'right here' to point out a significant part of the fight, an obvious Cosell trademark. Many Union students came to one of the two shows and I think they will agree that it was well worth the money. 11 Those who dream by day are cognisant of many things which escape those who dream only at night.\ -Edgar Allen Poe ... w .c :J ... (.') w > ro 0 > .c 0 - 0 .r::: c. . .J' ... _

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, January 13, 1986 ' ,M' - 'o \ - • ' ' THE ARTS By·CAROL LEVY The Kuperberg-Morris master of mime in Paris. Included in the program is a strikingly unique creation · performed in black body suits, contrasting white elastic straps attached to their hands and feet, and a neutral mask. Figures glide in and out of black light, creating images of invisible forces of tension. The Kuperberg Morris Movement Theater performs \Endangered Species\ in this photograph. Movement Theater will be appearing at Union College Saturday, January 25 at 8 p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theater. Admission is free to the Union College community. Rich Kuperberg, the company choreographer, unites the flUid modern dance techniques of Ann Morris With the dramatic and expressive power of mime. Together they prove that ar- tistic expression has no liJ,nits as theater and dance merge. The restilt is contemporary mime, which goes beyond pantomime because it em- phasizes the whole body, not just. the hands and face. Their work also incorporat~s \Chaplinesque comedy'' since Kuperberg believes . that everyone nas a down inside of them waiting to be found. Also, there will be a bizarre clown theater piece called Forward March utilizing long sculpture balloons and round punch balloons as musical in- struments. The balloons are also used as props for their precision choreographed section · to a Brandenburg concerto! · - Nott Memorial Theatre Presents The second half of the evening will be one piece entitled Endangered :,pedes. It is built on six.sections depicting man as the ultimate endangered species using visual metaphors and the powerful dynamics of corporeal mime. Kuperherg and Morris Movement Theater A Mime Dance E-vening Along with the talents of Elisa Drisl~;~ne and Richard Larson, the company has touched audiences all over the world. When not on tourthey are based in Albany, where they run their own movement theater school AU. are invited to the recep- tion after the show. In addition, two masterclasses will be given. The first is scheduled for Mon., Jan. 27 from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Nott and will focus on contemporary mime. The second will be ·on Wed., Jan. 29 from 7-8:30 p.m. in the Dance Studio and will integrate mime and dance. Sign up now for the masterclasses and don't forget to bring a prop! · S~turday, January 25th at 8 pm Free admission to Union . called The Performing Arts Loft., The pieces they will perform have been constantly evolving since Ann and Rich began working together in 1981. Their innovative style reflects the training of_ Etienne Decroux, a Co !.lege students and faculty Arts Club General Meeting Thurs .. , Jan. 23 8: 00 p .. m. 3rd Floor Old Chapel New Members ·Welcome!!! Topics to be discussed: Trip to New York City P·erform ances/exh i bit ions, Visits to galleries, etc. etc. etc. Every Friday German Language Table 12:30-1:30 Hale House RESTAURANT AND BAR 'Now Serving Pizza 12\ 6 cut ur' a cut Ask About Party Size 24 cut· $10.50 Oon't Forget Thursdays Iced Teas $1.00 9 pm ·midnight onlv $3.50 $6.50 Th1s·Week· In The Arts January 23-Cabaret: Newman Club at 10:00 p.m. in Old Chapel January 24-0nCampus: Arts Improvisation Series with J. Pressiaff and M. Foster, Arts Building 108, 7: 30 p.m., Michael Spiro, at the Skellar, 10:00 p.m. · Off Campus-The Upsetters, 7:30 p.m.-RPI McNeil Room in the Student Union. . - January 25-0n Campus-Kuperberg/Morris Movement Theatre at The Nott, 8:00p.m. · January 26-0n Campus: The Bach Aria Group, Memorial Chapel, 8·: 00 p.m. Bi~ Brother/Big Sister Winter Carnival at the Field House, 12:30 p.m. Of~ Campus: Capital Chamber Artist perform Tavern Music, 3:00p.m., Page Hall, 135 Western Ave., Albany January29-0nCampus: Spell#7 at the Nott,8:00p.m. Off Campus: Steven Wright, comedian, at the Palace Theatre, 8:00 p.m. January 30-0n Campus:- Student Band performance, Memorial Chapel, 8:00 . The play i'Spell #7\will be appearing atthe No'l>t Memorial on January 29 at 8 p.m. Tickets sold at Box O.ffice.

Paris. rn is a ~eation y suits, ~straps nd feet, ~igures k light, 1:visible bizarre called 1g long round ical in· ns are r their ·aphed en burg ~vening ntitled l$ built ma.n as ngered taphors nics of recep- ddition, 7ill be llled for 30 p,m. ICUS on . The Jan. 29 Dance ~mime for the :forget d at \ ' \ CONCORDIENSIS, JanflllTY 23, 1986 Page 17 THE ARTS Jonl Mitchell's back- Dog· Eat Dog By ARTS STAFF one stanza, ''Land of snap decisions- Land of short at- tention spans- Nothing is savored- Long Enough- To really understand· In every culture in decline- The watchful ones among the slaves- know all that's genuine will be- Scorned and conned and cast away.\ So much for the American Dream .... ichael Spiro Joni Mitchell's latest album is among her beSt. Once again she has used all her talents in a positive .manner and produced an albwn that contains songs that are socially and politically oriented mixed with others that are just plain fun. The first song, ''Good Friends\ discusses friendships and how quite .often even the best of friends can misunderstand each other and,if not caught and corrected in time, the relationships can dissolve. Thomas Dolby, who co- produced the album with Mitchell is on keyboards and Michael McDonald ac- companies her on vocals. Mitchell is assisted on several songs by such lasting lwninaries as James Taylor, Don Henley and even recruited Hollywood's Rod Steiger to make an appearance as the voice of a Jerry Falwell type southern preacher, for the song \Tax Free\. While Steiger preaches about killing the commies, Khomeinis and Kaddafis, and damning all the long haired rock and rollers, Mitchell e:xposes the hyprocrisy and lies in his words. This man like most TV preachers claims to speak the words of God and of love as be continues pulling in and pock~ting millions and millions o1 tax free -dollars; How's that for a comment on our society? The social commentaries do not stop there but become more blatantly discussed in several other songs such as \The Three Great Stimulants\. Mitchell sings about how we've never been frightened late at night by the droning of planes and have never seen tanks rumbling through our streets as. others so often have experienced. Instead we are subjected to, \a little -· lawyeronthetube-He said, 'it's so easy now anyone can sue. Let me show you yow. your petty aggravations can profit you.\' The song \Dog Eat Dog\ depicts the brutality of the greed that drives so many Americans. The greed, she says, keeps others down and treated like beasts while few others are lucky enough to get away from it and they in turn become the driving slave holders. Her conclusion from viewing all this is summed up in Lastly, the song \Ethopia\ discusses none other than the plight of the Ethiopians. Although w~ are rarely moved by the devastation of these people due to overexposure by TV and events such as Live Aid, this song views the situation · from a different angle. Instead of merely concentrating on the plight of the group as a whole, Mitchell disucsses how they cannot grow so much as a weed in the dried out sand that was once arable soil, while we out of greed are destroying our forests and big business is driving the little farmer out of business in order to grow more and in- crease profits. \walking sticks on burning plains- Betrayed by politics- Abandoned by the rains- On and on the human need- On and on the human greed profanes- .... - Your top soil flies away- Ethiopia- We pump ours full of poison sprays .... \ Not only does she take shots at big business, politics and people like Gary Collins who we see every Sunday on television holding dying babies (\A TV star with live in concert! a P.R. smile- calls your baby 'Ii' while strolling- through your tragic trials\) but she subtlely hints at the greed which has caused the plight of the American Farmer as well. At The Skellar January 24 at 10 P.M. Admission is Free with ticket stub from movie or any _other college activity and includes one free i umbo chocolate chip cookie. There is. not a word to be written that can in any way accurately describe how truly moving this album is. One is left only to examine his or her conscience and motives after. listening to these songs This album is an attempt on Joni Mitchell's part to open the eyes of Americans to the realities of this country and this world. If the album charts are any in· dication of the response she is receiving for her valiant efforts, then most people are choosing not to listen. According to 'Billboard Magazine' this album has not done well in sales and remains her worst selling album to date. COMING SOON: Alumnus Brian Lau·x a.nd friend Ken Morr, better known' as Shadow Captains. will be appea.ring on Feb. 1, for Union's Cof- feehouse. Be sure to attend. Good mu~!_c, and fun to be had by all. . . . . . . . . . . . . . ' ............................. . ~~,!~tttRtWt%\!MWMiliMW?!i.fHMMfmi~l~~~ :::::::::: F i 1m Com m·ittee Presents: :::::::::: Amadeus This We.ekend Feb. 24-26 7, 10 A.dmission $1 Film Committee Presents: :::::::::: :;:::::::: ... ~.·.·.·.· o· bb. D D II ·=·:·=·:·= :;:~;~:~:~ ·. e · ae . oes a • as :!:::::::: .:::::::::: :::::::!~: ~:~:~:~;~; C X-rated) .. ~:~:;;~;~: Tuesday Feb. 28 7, 9, 11 Admission $1 · Note** No alcohol will be allowed in the theatre during the movies. ~i~~1l~iil:l:~:l:l:l:l:l:l:l:l!l:1:l:l=lll=~J!lmlll~llillllllllil!ll~llll1lll;rl;l!ll~llliilillll!llll~lllll;i;llllllllmllllillMf~~~l~ :-:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·.·!·~···· .. ····\•'•'•'i'···~···········:·:~:·:·:·:·:·:•:•!•!•:·:·:·:·:·!·:·:·:·:·:·:········~·-·~-·.······ -· Winter 1985 Seminar Series Department of Biological Sciences and the Union College Biology Club January 28: \Mitotic Apparatus-surface, Interactions in Animal Cell Division\-Raymond Rappaport, Ph.D., Departm.ent of Biological Sciences, Union College. February 4: \Visual Communication in Anolis Lizards\-Leo Fleislunan, Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Cornell University-Host: R. Olberg.· February 11: Jason, C~ Birnholz, M.D. *-Department of Diagnostic Radiology and Nuclear Medicine, Rush-Presbyterian-st. Lulte's Medical Center-Host: H. Butzel. February 18: \Natural History oftheGalapagosH-Arnold E.S. Gussin, Ph.D., Dean of Graduate and Continuing Studies~ ljnion College-Host: M. Schadler. . February 25: \Genetic Counseling, Principles and Applications.\ -Joanne Malin, M.s.\' Genetic Counselor, College of Physician~ and Surgeons of Columbia University-Host: H. Butzel. All are cordially invited to attend. All seminars will be in Social Sciences Rm 117 at 4:30P.M. Refreshments and Conversation at 4:00P.M. \'Graduate of Union College .I f '

~·· ·- ' ' Page 18 ' ·coNCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 SCHOLARSHIPS -Spend your junior year in Germany! · Each year Union selects two students (as sophomores) to spend their junior year studying at a German UQiversity with a scholarship provided by the Federation Of German- American Clubs in the Federal Republic of Germany. Basic requirements include a strong academic record and a good working knowledge of the German 'language. See Professor Anton WarQ.e in Modern Languages for further information and application materials. Deadline for completed ap- plications: Monday, January 27, 1986. CLUB NEWS -Society of Physic Students Club News for 23 Jan. 86. SPS held its bi-monthly meeting last Thursday, January 16. At the meeting the club decided to look into the construction of a spark chamber which rivals even the best light shows. The club also decided to help students taking Physics 11 or Physics 13 by setting up a Physics Crisis Center. The Center is open every night, Mon-Thurs at 7:30 p.m.-8:30 p.m. in the Physics Seminar Room. The Seminar Room is located on the nor- thwest side of the Science and Engineering on the third floor. SPS will be meeting again on Thursday, January 30, at 4:30 p.m. in the Seminar Room. · -Covenant House Speaker- The Newman Club will sponsor a guest lecturer from Covenant House Monday, January 27 at 7 p.m. in SS016. All welcome. -Folk· Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at St. John the Evangelist's 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sundays may meet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehea.rse. -Peace Pastoral Study Group-Wednesday, January 29 at 7: 3~ p.m. in St. John the Evangelist School Library, Professor Harry Murray, Sociology Department will continue to lead a study and discussion of the Bishops' Peace Pastoral. All welcome. -Trip to :Proctors-Anyone interested in seeing \As You Like It,'' Shakespeare's witty pastoral comedy meet by Ol<l Chapel Plaza at 7:15, Thursday, January 30, topick up half-price tickets for $8, $7, or $5. -Kindergarten Aides- Anyone interested in assisting one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist · School please contact Tina Sciocchetti 370- 2275 who is coordinating this project. -Confirmation-Any Union . student who has not been confirmed and who wishes to receive the Sacrament on April 27 at 3 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist Church please contact Sr. . Joan who wiU arrange classes to suit student schedules. CLASS]HEDS -The following companies have set up on-campus recruiting schedules. First come first served signups will be Monday, Feb. 3, froll'} 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. at the Career Development Center. · United nluminating, Monday, Feb. 10. B.S. in E.E. for Systems Engineer. Aetna Life & Casualty, Friday, Feb. 14. B.A. or B.S. in any Liberal Arts for various salaried positions. Central Hudson Gas & Electric, Thursday, Feb. 20. B.S. in E.E. or M.E. Los Angeles County Depi. of Public Works, Wednesday, March 12. B.S. or M.S. in C.E. -Cancellations. oneida Ltd. and NCR have cancelled their recruiting schedules. -Professor D. Thurston will lead a Hi-day tour to China from July 8-15. Arranged by Passages, Inc. in San Francisco the tour will visit Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Guilin, Shanghai, Xian and Beijing. The cost of the tour is$3,195 from New York and includes roundtrip airfare, hotels, meals while in China, and daily sightseeing excursions. Professor Thurston will arrange pre-departure lectures and orientation meetings for the tour group. If you are interested in joining the tour and would like more information, please Characterized by self-control or sanity; reasonable; rational. · SOBER IS SMART. Now is the time to start thinking about drinki!lg in a whole new light. Drinking doesn't make you cool. It's not a guarantee of success. It's not even a prerequisite to having fun. The fact is booze doesn't really get you anywhere. Think about it. SOB.ER IS SMART A public service message from the New York State Dlvlsfon of Alcoholism and Alcohol Abusl) and your campus neWSrJaper. contact Professor Thurston in Room SS 213b (Tel: 370-6222) or at his .home (372-7673).. -P-T position - 20 hrs. per week. Receptionist-File Clerk for doctor's office, · late af. ternoons and evenings. Must have car. ·$4.00-hr. Contact Ellen Frishberg, Becker Hall, Ext. 6123. -Professional Typing-bu- siness teacher is available to type term. .papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time. 399-4656. -Typing done for Professors and-or students. (Word Processing Typing). Please contact. 377-4215. · -Help wanted by. Food Service: Old .Chapel - Hale House. Flexible hours-days .. Contact Manager or Asst. Manager. -TERMS ABROAD. On February 4, 1986 at 4:30, the Terms Abroad Office has scheduled meetings on each of the programs offered in 1986-87. These programs are as follows: (Fall) -Bath and York, England; · Rennes, France; Florence, Italy; Osaka, Japan. (Winter) Athens, Greece; a kibbutz .in Israel; Cuernavaca, Mexico. ('Spring) Freiburg, Germany. (Summer) Study of Socialize<l Medicine in England, Hungary and Sweden. This session is a generaJ, orientation t.q acquaint students tbrough fit$thand accounts of faculty-in-residence and students having .been on, previous programs. ALL ARE WELCOME! Watch for posters on campus announcing location· pf the meetings. 4 -jan. 23, Thursday RECRUITING: Closed signups for Weeks C & D 8-5:QO .p.m . CDC -Jan; 24, Fr. RECRUITINGl . Opensignups for WeekS'C & D 8· 5,:00 p.m. CDC --::-Jan. 2~'1', Mon. New York. City Recruiting Day. -Jan. 29, Wed.,.Interviewing Skills: Learn to identify your strong points, and toprepare for and present yourself effectively in a personal interview. 4:30 p.m. HV 113, ~Does physics got. you down??? Now there is belp. The new Physics Crisis center is now available to h~lp you. The Physics Crisis Center is open Monday·thru Thursday at 7:30 to 8:30 in the evenings. It is located in the seminar room in the Phsics Dept. Don't let a good resource. go to waste. . . 'Sponsore~ by the Society of. Physics Students. (~ -Jan. 24-26-Am.adeus at 7 and 10. -Jan. 28--Debbie Does Dallas (X rated) at 7, 9, 11. . Tickets are available at Old Chapel for $1. · · · -German Film. SerieiH Haus Chne nU.ter _(House \.Without Qtiardian), 197:.5. Base<t on tb;e hovel '· b:y · lteinrich Boll, pronii.nent German writer and Nobel Prize winner. The film plays in a Catholic town in the Rhineland in the nineteen fif- ties. The fatherless. children of two very different families become £riends and make their first life eXperiences under contrasting auspices, both moral and material. . TANNING UVA Tanning- No S ALON • • •• • • ' ' < ' • - - • • ' ' 1st Vi.sit Freel T'Su~· G·RAND OPEN.ING 8.Renanigana Hair · . Desi8Jls Sign Up by FEB. 1 ' 519 Unio.n St. Sch'dy, N .. Y. Year Membership 1 MONTH '1··&.aoo.EG. $30· oo $199 . REG. $39 unlimited visits 372-00&·7 Convenient·fiours! Mon.-Fri. 8-9 Sat. /

- I h~lp ter is 1 ay at :. It is lm in let a ~. ~ty of at 7 )alias Lt O~d naus ithout 1n the Boll, rand ~· film m the n fif- ·en of 1ilies their llllder both - .. I t. '.EG. ~39 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 PERSONALS Youerackme up. They're not fattening .. they just have a lot o.f calories, huh? Welcome back Cocoa and Eemthialynn! Quadafi Quaddafi l{adafy Kadaffi . How do YOU spell it? \Jake\ . . ' Thanks for the \weekend abroad\! -sexyS. Wllllllllllllll 1111111111111111111111111111111111111 IIINJIIfllllllllllllllllll 11111111111111111111 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111.!!!. ~ An ad hoc committee has been ~ . I appointed . to. investigate the I i tenurability of Clifford Brown,. Jr., ~ . ~ Associate Professor · of Political ~ ~ Science. Anyone who would l.ike to ~ i participate in this review may ! = cont·act Professor Berk (History. ~ _ Department X6075). All information ~ ~ will be k·ep.t confidential:. § mlllllllllllll/lllllllllllllllllllllllllltlllllllnmllllll/11111 1111111111 uun/111/lnuulmnllmumwrnmmllllllllllllunuuunn'm\'u\'''ll' FRE.SHM~N\\ · OK1'1YJCftN/)Y- vJE'~t.. C,OIN 6 TO ,.-4--!E=- I 5k£Ll-\R • \ 0 oooH 1-fT~Il..Y­ s!<£LLt'IR IS b~s5! i-trY - g.f£R aR r<JO ~EER , tT5 STILL ni£ SkE.Ll-A R! l HAVENT g£f:.N 11-I~RE YET' TH {S -r£R/'I\ AfJ.D l-1£ PJ<E GOING ~ ,f HfY J VJfiTC~ ,; - HES MY [3VDDY! I I oooot4 ·- I M s-oRRY l Ur~RY HON~Y! r/UH? f!Rf YOV C. o r-ffR A Dl Cfll'l G M;;. ?! gvT Lfif..RY~ I r-JOBO.DY GOf-.S -jo 11-fE. . skELLAP-. ! . .. ,..,\\--\\ I ·oM/600! T\-fEY cui '\fl.l~ BAR! 5f'£! I ITS YlitkY ~ H£R~! I Dear Connie, I hope that your 2oth birthday left you with many terrific memories to last . a lifetime. Keep smiling- Love ya, the other expert Did you check your mail today? Heads up--KITTY'S BACK! Dear Mushy-Muscles, rm sorry things have been rough on you latelY. I'll make sure to keep your mind elsewhere this weekend. I hope you are looking forwardto it as much as as I am. · Hello, I love you Emit! DWOG, Sbowers will n~ver be the same! Are you sure we weren't at the Poconos? Love ya. _;gexyS. To my new siblings, GET PSYCHED!!! I! I can't wait to get to know you all. Thanks Brook! Go GAMMA PHI! Frank Sinatra plus Elvis Costello ... equals ...... beautiflll babies! 'rO THE DEF.ELICTS IN 209 \BEWARE\ REVENGE IS SWEET! M.D,,_J tried my best to be somebody you'd be close to. Maybe you did expect too much from me. Well, if you ever change your mind .... SPRINGSTEEN FANS! Bootlegs R audio and video. Call x6896 Ken Does it tickle to be kissed by a guy with. a moustacl}e? MOUNTEBANKS GENERAL MEETING Thursday, Jan. 23 4:30p.m .. Nott Memor1al Ji5 Ll~f:. fr G~OS5 f'({l GE-- c.r\off'£f ,JoW. I r-1 1 r.. t: TO M££T yov. Page 19 Nancoise \Why isn't anybody playing?\ JM and ND, \How do you spell spontaneous?\ JS \Leave Sally Alone\ paid for by a D.A.R. ! ! ! •· -dy, are you lookinl! forward to tomorrow night as much as I am? What a nice Chrlstmas present! I love you. Go Chicago Bears! Kill those Patriots! Make the Super Bowl Shuffle a reality! -Aloyal Chicago fan Attention Union College Squash Players!! We are trying to ~rganize a campus directory of players for a ladder. If you are interested call Jim at X6591. Eric we'll see you tonight! CP-Why did you morons keep answering? We got all the way to the P's. R.R. and Go-Nad, Hey, are you a caveman, the crowned jewels, or is the heart foundation open for business? Meow. P. R.R., It's your turn to deal, right? Go-Nad dealt last and my fingers aren't working right. P. Go-Nad, Are you running the party rental service? P. Lisa, Deb, John, and Schmittee, Let's make cookie dough!! Love, Fred The FOG has lifted to reveal seven fantastic new brothers. You guys were the nads as pledges, and you'll be even better brothers-Damn Proud, The Weathermen. To the new Brothers of PSK: Squirrel, Jabba, C.H.U.D., Popeye, Schleprock, Troll, and Stane, congratulations and welcome aboard. Schmittee, Ilow'd ya like those fuzzy belly .. ! mean hairy .. , I mean peach .. oh yea fuzzy navels? Thanx for trying, you're a great friend, roomate and fellow partyer! Love, Fred Liza, Jennifer, et Lori: Je suis heureuse que vous avez revenu! Vous me manquiez beaucoup. Groses Baises. Lydia Jennifer and Pam: It's great to have roommates! I know we will have a great year together. Hanging wallpaper proved it I ! Love, Lyd. Jenny and Sue: It's great to have you back. Love, Lyd . .M. I love you too r L. Y.ohan-Put out that cigaret· te! 1! Signed, the American Lung Association (We . care about every breath you take!) Tri- Thanks a lot for dinner- you're the best! Jon, Judy & Joanne ro one of the Founders of Chi Omicron Chi: Have a great 21st birthday on ruesday!! You have been the best ... Thank you, no thank you! Uhhb ... Bob, I'll take Annoying Parasites for 200, please. '.

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 ~~~~-:v1.: ··;, \ i JUt~ _f .' .!·. '\,: , I . ' , •. ' ~ I WI~~. ~-' '! .' I -,- . ),;, Candlelight Dinner at Hale House Starting Saturday, January 25, 1986, our old Dutchmen night shaH be starting as Candlelight Dinner in Hale House. . Reservations taken at the Hale House Mon ... Thurs. 5-7 p.m. ' TREAT YOUR FRIEND FREE AT HALE HOUSE January 27th- January 31st 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. only Buy any entree, sandwich, dessert or any thing from our menu get identical item FREE 'I : PIZZA PUB Ope·n 1 :30 pm - Midnight EVERYD;AY SPECIAL: Buy one slice, get one small.soda free withad ~-.~~ /) ' . ) . / ) . r r ~ \ \ I, ,/i ._.... ~ {AK,E crJC HOI)) 13 \(ooAtf ·- Expires: January 30, 1986 • ' \ j. ' • • ~ • ' ', ~ • ' ~ \ • • • WRUC TRIVIA IS COMING! February 16, 23 and March 2 . Get your teams together now Union College Speakers Forum presents GERALD GARDNER An Illustrated History of Censorship In Am.erica · Tuesday, January 28, 1986 8:00p.m.- Memorial Chapel Censored clips will be seen from David Bowie., The Rolling Stones, Star Trek, WWII, etc. $2 Students $3 public I like to talk Union College Public Speaking competition ' ' Date: Thvrsday, February 6,. 1986 Time: 7:dOp.m. Place: Fox Lounge ... .. Then· /listen Contestants will be asked to speak for3 minutes on a randomly chosen topic: No preparation is necessary · Prize money totalling $200 and award trophy. TOE NTER: contact Adam at 312·6332, Box 242. . ' Tea a Elm RIT Cani UN II Plat1 Osw~ Pots• GenE Ham Corti ·Buff< Hob a Bro.c

Ct;JNCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 Hockey Sta-ndings E.C.A.C. Division U West Team· w L T GF GA PCT. Overall Elmira RIT Canisius UNION :Plattsburgh St. Oswego Potsdam St. Geneseo St. Hamilton Cortland St. Buffalo Hobart Brockport St. 13 1 l 86 24 13 2 106 46 10 4 77 65 7 3 46 24 8 4 l 96 54 9 7 62 65 7 8 87 76 6 s 57 '64 2 5 29 35 3 7 31 62 3 9 48 65 3 11 57 104 0 11 27 .98 ALL FALL TERM ATHLETES OF THE WEEK ;929 .867 .714 .700 .653 .562 .469 .429 .312 .. 300 .250 .214 .000 --can~Plckl1p Their TROPHIES In th·e-Concordiensis·- Offi.ce at 4:00 Tuesday, January 28th WRUC·* 89.7 presents UNION·COLLEGE *HOCKEY* ' . Sat. vs. BuffalO Tues. vs. Plattsburgh COVERAGE BEGINS AT 7 P.M. 15-1-0 .rt-4-0 14-4-1 7-7-0 15-8-1 9-7-0 7-9-1 10-11-0 3-7-0 5-9-0 3-12-0 4-14-0 0-16-0 Page 21 <ttnncnrbitnst·s SP'O R TS ~ Favorite Poin~s Underdog SUPER BOWL XX January 26, 1D86 at New Orleans Bears 10 Patriots Over-under: 8'171 Ga·rnet Scoreboard Ice Hockey (7-7) UNION9 Geneseo St. 3 UNION 4 Williams 1 Men's Basketball (7-5) UNION 83 Middlebury 64 UNION 68 N. Adams 57 Women's Basketball (3·5) Albany St. 77 UNION 37 Concordia 42, UNION 32 Men's Track (2-2) UNION 69 ·Colgate64 UN\ION69 Plattsburgh St. 30 Women's Track <d-3) Plattsburgh St. UNION30 Men's Swimming (0-1) Trinity 58 UNION35 Dutchmen Sportsweek January 23- January 29 Thursday 1/23 Men's Swimming at Hartwick Women's Swimming at Hartwick Friday 1/24 Men's Varsity Hoops at Hobart J.V. Basketball at Hobart Women's Basketball- Union I nvy _ Saturday 1/25 Varsity Hockey vs. U. Buffalo J. V. Hockey vs. Canterbury Men's Varsity Hoops at Rochester J.V. Basketball at Hartwick Women's Basketball- Union I nvy Men's Swimming at Norwich Women's Indoor Track at Plattsburgh I nvy. Men's 1 ndoor Track at Plattsburgh I nvy. Sunday 1/26 J.V. Hockey vs. Jr. Flyers Tuesday 1/28 Varsity Hockey at Plattsburgh Men's Basketball at R.P.I. J.V. Basketball at R.P.I. Women's Basketball vs. Middlebury Men's Swimming at Vassar, New Paltz Wednesday 1/29 J.V. Hockeyvs. Trinity Pawling Men's Swimming at Vassar, New Paltz 4:00 4:00 8:00 5:00 6:00 & 8:00 7:30 3:30 8:00 6:00 6:00& B:OO 1:00 7:30 B:OO 6:00 8:00 All FULL TIME Union College Students, Faculty & Staff have GENERAL MEMBERSHIP Privileges at the Schenectady YMCA. Use of the YMCA facilities has been acquired to meet our needs recreationally due to the loss ot use of Alumni Gym. You must show your Union 1.0. card upon entering the \Y\. These privileges extend through ·June 27, 1986.

. ·- 22 CONCORDIENSIS, January 23, 1986 <rrnncnrbiensis SPORTS Lady Hoopsters Drop Two: Look To Union lnvy 26 Ways to Bet C?\ Super Bowl By CBARLIESLOTNlK Most of us who will bet on Super Bowl XX will bet · on either the Bears or the Patriots. However, there are twenty-six ways to bet on the game in .Las Vegas. Local bookmakers are offering lines on many of these bets, including the total points for each quarter and each team. 13%. ''OveF-under\' fot total field goals.. and total in- terceptionsis 2¥.! each. •Chicag9 is the favorite for each quarter: 8-5 odds for the first quarter,-3¥2 points for · the second, -1 for the t}li.rd, -3 for the fourth. By LISA FOLEY On Thursday night, the women's basketb-all team presented a tough defense in their confrontation against Concordia, a division 2 team, but were unable to shut ·down Concordia's effective outside shooting. Union remained a threat throughout the game, noted Assistant Coach Charlene Roberts, because of well dispersed scoring among the team members. Elain Pick and K~ Mangino contributed 10 points each while co-captain Rebecca Clemente and Michelle VanPattan each added 6 to the (ij \C 0 ;:) +- IJ) >- ..0 J2 0 J:: c. final score. Although Concordia's outside scoring helped them maintain a steady lead in the first quarter, the Dutchwomen showed patience with their offense and in the second half increased the pressur~ on Concordia's of- fense, forcing several turnovers that Union scored on to narrow their opponents ten point lead to six. Union's momentum un- settled the Concordia team, but Union was unable to dominate and was defeated 42-32. The ' team's current record stands at 3-5. The team now looks forward to this weekend's tournament at the fieldhouse, beginning on Colleen Dundon shoots as Kim Mangino prepares for rebound. Friday night at 8 pr.n when the Dutchwomen will face Green Mountain College. Robert's looks for team play and con- fidence to be the key to Union's success at the tournament, and noted that improved play by Michelle VartPattan, which she attributes to increased ex- perience should show another solid performance by the center player. On Saturday at 1 ·Prn the consolation game will be played and at 3 pm the Championship · game will be played. Other participants include Utica Tec;hnical College and Russell Sage. Union defeated Russell Sage earlier in the season 56-48. But those of you who want the 10-1 odds that William \I{efrigerator\ Perry will score a touchdown will have to visit the Union Plaza Sports Book in Las Vegas. Here are the available lines: •Coin toss, which team scores first, which team is penalized first. · •\Over-under\ for the game ·is 37 1 i2. \Over-under\ for each quarter is 7 for first, 13 for second, 7 for third and 101h for the fourth. The team \over- under\ for the game is Chicago at 23 1 i2 and New England at •Chicago is a 10 1 h~point favorite for the game and a 4-1 favorite to winthe game. •Chicago is a four~point favorite for the first half and a six-point favorite for the second half. •Jim McMahon is· a 6¥2~5 favorite over Tony Eason for total passing yards. Walter Payton is a 3-2 favorite over Craig James for total rushing yards. Kevin Butler is pick 'em against Tony F.ranklin for total field goals. Total team yards penalized is pick' em. •One can get 10: 1 odds on William !'the Refrigerator\ Perry scoring a touchdown.! •The odds are 6;.1 against either team being shut out. Reynolds Named Baseball Coach By CHARLIE SLOTNIK Gary Reynolds has been named varsity baseball coach effective immediately. Reynolds succeeds John Audino, who is leaving Union to become offensive coordinator for the University of Penn- sylvania football team. Gary Reynolds is presently an assistant football coach at Union. Reynolds is a graduate of the University of Bridgeport ( CN), where he was a three- year letter winner in both basketball and hockey. Russ Ebbets, Union's track and cross country coach was named assistant baseball coach. ' '- . • ,, \. .. 1985-86 U.nion College BasketbaU Statistics 1985-86 Union College Women 1 s Basketball Stats 10 game totals . ~· 8 Game Totals Player Kim Mangino Bee Clemente Patty Richards Colleen Dundon Elaine Pick Barb Weissinger Michelle Van Pattan .. Julie Gallo Margaret Eshoo Valerie Sc;~rwin Team Stats Union Opponents UNION COLLEGE INSTITUTE OF ADMINISTRATION AND MANAGEMENT Invites you to attend the 1986.winter term's Gms 8 B 8 8 8 8 7 8 2 2 8 8 ADMINISTRATIVE AND ENGINEERING SYSTEMS COLLOQUIUM FG 43.2 52.4 43.8 30.2 40.0 22.4 43.5 34.4 50.0 00.0 38.3 42.7 The Col-loquium hosts a series of presentation by members of the business community and university faculty on topics of general interest to present and future business leaders. The presen· tations are open to the business community as well as students and faculty at area Universities. The Colloquiums are heid on Thursdays from 3:45 - 5:00 PM in Bailey Hall, Union College. For more information, please call Dr. Donald F. Arnold,· Chairman of Ph.D Program at (518) 370-6302. Player G Fg FGA FG% Reb. PT AVG Kurt Fox 12 81 158 51.3 9Q 185 15.4 12 67 136 49.3 '98 159 13.2 FGA FG% Pts Avg Todd Lafayette · Rob Parento 12 48 T05 45.7 22 102 8.5 74 32 77 9.6 61 32 76 9.5 73 32 75 9.4 96 29 9.1 Nell Winawer ·12 39 t8 50.0 48 87 7.2 Tom Beck 12 38 85 44.7 33 78 6.5 Joe Romer 11 25 48 52.1 24 61 5.5 Ken Levine 12 24 52 46.1 31 60 5.5 Doug Gregory 10 19 52.8 ' 29 36 48 4.8 60 24 53 6.6 49 11 30 3.7 23 10 23 3,.3 32 11 24 3.0 2 1 2 1.0 B. Witherspoon 8 16 24 66.7- 19 37 4i6 Steve DeBalso '9 11 27 40.7 11 26 2.9 Scott Gibbs 7 5 11 45.4 5 11 1.6 Tim Coleman 9 5 12 41.7 10 13 1.4 Tim Diemoz 5 3 11 27.2 4 7 1.4 4 0 0 0.0 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 6 4 l.O Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 0 0 0.0 474 182 433 54.1 *No longer on the team - 457 195 467 58.4 UNION Total 12 382 791 48.3 165 876 Opp. Tot. 12 316 685 46.1 122 780 Record: 7·5 Home (6-2) Away (0-3) Neutral {1-0) STUDENT PARTICIPANTS NEEDED ••• for an experiment for a 73.0 65.0 Senior Proiect in Political Science Participants will be asked to complete two brief surveys and to watch videotapes of the House of Represen- tatives. · Part!cipants _will be paid $3 ~er hour and can participate tor e1ther a sangle 1 hour penod OR for 1 hour periods on 2 seperate days. The study will be conducted on the evenings·of January 27, 28, 29, 30. For more information or to volunteer: Contact, laQren at 346-1068. J2 0 J:: 0. 0 IJ) u · athl Du:: Ton B, role Th Dutc wee~ and rom1 scot« defer had~ ECA~ Wee~ Curt .goals con til Colle, He ll Dutcl 19 Pia CUI Du, Tor Jol1 Gaa Toe Da1 Net Sco Chr Da\ Ton Oa\ Sco· Mik Kei~ Ga'v Bill Riel Mik Sco1 Rid Jim Goa Way _.. Tob~

s .!:: Q. Q (/) By DOUGLAS LLOYD and JAY GROSS~ Union had two outstanding · athletes this week, ·Hockey's Duane Joyce and Basketball's. Tom Beck. · Both player's have played key roles in their teams current hot Duane Joyce . streaks. Hockey has won 3 in a row wh~le Hoops has put together 5 straight victories. Joyce, a junior defensemen, scored a hat trick in Friday night's win against Geneseo St. and bas now scored at least one point in is last 9 games. A brother of the Psi Upsilon Fraternity, he is an economics major from Pemboke, MA. The graduate of Tabor Academy has 14 pts. this season and 33 career pts. in his 3 seasons on the blueline for the. Skating Dut- chmen. Only a sophomore, Beck has already taken over the \leadership role\ as a guard, says coach Bill Scanlon, as a 0 guard, and is just a sophomore. '5 In their last game, a win a against North Adams, the o ·Brockport, NY native was iii \flawless\ with 9 assists 3 . ' steals, 4 rebounds, and. 10 points. Coach Scanlon described him as ''outstanding'' in the Hamilton game which Union won 70-59 while he assisted on the first 6 baskets of the . game. The Sigma Chi Fraternity brother is a managerial economics major and . from Brockport i Qm BecK Skaters Make It Three In-a Row By JOHN BRUCE The Union College Skating Dutchmen enjoyed a successful week, as they defeated Willi.ams and Geneseo. The Dutchmen romped over Geneseo by a score of 9-3, led by junior defenseman Duane Joyce who had. a hat trick and earned the ECAC Defensive Player of the Week Award. Senior co-captain Curt Cole chipped in with two goals .and three -assists as he continues to climb the Union College All-Time scoring List. He now has 107 points. The Dutchmen also received goals from senior Tom Brandell juniors Dave Appleby and Chris Huntington, and sophomore Gary Temush. The game was marred by penalties, as both teams combined for almost thirty penalties. Wayne McDougall turned in another outstanding .game in goal. In their next game, Saturday night, Union defeated Williams by a 4-1 margin, as senior co- captains Tom Hodgins and Curt Cole, junior Mike Raymond and freshman ;Keith Ro!lertson all scored for the Dutchmen. It was the first collegiate goal for both Robertsqn and Raymond, and Scott Richardson faces off in 3-1 win over Hamilton. 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats OVERALL Player 14 game totals ~p GLS Ats Pts Curt Cole 14 8 8 16 Duane Joyce 14 10 4 14 Tom Hodgins 14 6 7 13 John MacKenzie 14 2 10 12 GaryTemush 14 6 6 12 Todd Flanigan 13 3 9 ' 12 Darren Stephens 13 2 8 10 Nelson Said 14 6 4 10 Scott Cyr 11 5 3 8 Chris Huntington 11 3 5 8 Dave Appleby 14 2 4 6 Tom Brandell 14 1 4 5 Dave Weiss 13 0 3 3 Scott Manley 12 0 2 2 Mike Raymond 3 1 . 1 2 Keith Robertson 2 1 1 2 GaVin Morton 9 1 0 1 Bill Snow 9 0 1 1 Rich Prezotti 12 0 1 1 Mike Forhan, 13 1 0 1 Scott Richardson 13 0 0 0 Rick Rockett 1 0 0 0 Jim MacLaughlin 3 0 0 0 Goalies GMS sv GA GAA Wayne McDougall 13 326 42 3.23 . ,. , Toby O'Brien . .· 1 . 20 1 1.00 · Does not include last night's game with another assj,st, Duane Joyce extended his scoring streak for the ninth straight game. Sophomore Toby O'Brien played in the net for the Dut- chmen and stopped 20 shots, as senior Wayne McDougall received a well-deserved rest. It was the 1st game O'Brien played all year and proved to be a capable between the pipes. The Dutchmen play Saturday night at home against the University of Buffalo and next Wednesday against Mid- dlebury, Tuesday at Platt- sburgh. The Dutchmen currently have a 7-7 record, but most importantly, are 7-3 in Division U, and are currently in fourth place, behind Elmira, RIT and Canisius. Because the top eight teams will make the playoffs, the Dutchmen appear to have an excellent chance for another playoff berth: Washburn AU-American By SID Senior forward Cheryl Wasbum was named to the New York State Association of Intercollegiate Athletics for Wmen Division III All-8tate first team in the sport of field hockey. Washburn, who becomes the first Lady Dut- chmen ever to be named to this squad; is now in the running for All-American honors. \To have a player on the All· State team means that Union's field hockey program is gaining respect throughout the state,\' said third-year head coach Charlyn Robert. \Cheryl has broken the barrier that puts Union in with the elite field hockey teams 'in New York State. In one season Cheryl has helped break the wall of New York State coaches, and that is a small miracle.\ Washburn; a four-year starter, led the Lady Dutchmen to a lo-5-1 record and into the -- <!!nncorbitnsis SPO R T.S Charlie Slotnik Looking at Sports A lot has been written about Super Bowl XX. One could easily argue that too much has been written about this game. In the past ten days, we, the football fans of America, have digested more information about the Chicago Bears, the New England Patriots, ticket scalpers, and Bourbon .Street than the mind can absorb. To tell you the truth, I am sick of it all. I do not care whether Bears' quarterback, Jim McMahon, wears a headband inscribed \Rozelle'' \Late Night\ or \Slotnik\ for that matter. I could care less what William \Refrigerator'' Perry has for breakfast or lunch the day of the game, although he'll probably have a light brunch. I do not feel that I should be informed of the domestic quarrels in the Fryar house as if there was tension between Ron and Nancy. However, this is the most important football game of the year,. if not the most hnportant sports event of the year. I am very excited about the game. You see, my team is playing. That's right, my team, the New England Patriots. .Everybody has a team; for some of you, it's the Yankees or Dodgers, for others it's the Cowboys or Lakers, but for me the Patriots are my team. ·The Chicago Bears are overwhehning favorites over the Patriots in Super Bowl XX. The Monsters of the Midway beat t1P the Patsies once already· this season, and the oddsmakers feel confident that it could happen again Sunday; I disagree. The Patriots have beaten the New York Jets, the L.A. Raiders, and the Miami Dolphins away from Foxboro, Mass. Without much trouble. But the Patriots are obviously a different team than they were when they lost to the Bears three months ago in late Sep- tember ... Patriots 27 Bears 24. .Audino Leaves Union John Audino, Union's Offensive Football coordinator for the past three seasons, will leave Division III Union to take similar position at Division 1-A Pennsylvania. Audino was instrumental in leading the Dutchmen to the post season playoffs in each of the last three years. University of Pennsylvania, like Union, has a solid football program. The Quakers have won or shared the prestigious Ivy title four of the past five seasons. Puck Notes The Skating Dutchmen had a new defensemen for four days. Sophmore transfer, Tom Hogg, came to Union at the beginning of winter term, but by Friday, January 10, the Ontario native was back home in Oakville. According to coach, Charlie Morrison, Tom was displeased that he was not awarded a starting job on the blueline just for showing up in Schenectady. After being on the team for less than a week, coach Morrison decided not to bring Hogg to Rochester to play top-ranked R.I.T., but to have him stay at Union to play in the prestigious Capital District Tournament with the Junior Varsity. \He had to earn his way into lineup just like everyone else\ added Coach Morrison . . . Congratulations to Junior Mike Raymond and freshman Keith Robertson for scoring their first career goals in only their second career game against Williams Saturday night ... But, the Defenseman, Bill Snow, will be out another four weeks with an injured shoulder ... Potsdam St. 6-RIT 5 (OT). ·* * * * SUPPORT U·NION SPORTS **** New York State AIAW post- season tournament. The 10 wins is the most ev.er by a Union field hockey team. Washburn; who came into the season with four career goals, tallied 16 of the team's 41 scores this year.

. .. 23,1986 Q) \0 0 :::, .... c.n >- .0 0 0 .s::. c. QJ \0 0 :I .... c.n >- ..a ~ ..c: a. Hockey extends winning streak to 3 See story page 23 Hoopsters remain hot. Seestorybelow. Thursday, January 23, 1986 Hoopsters Claiin Two Victories· By MARK VAN BUREN The men's basketball team ran its record to 7-5 this past week with victories over Middlebury and North Adams. On Tuesday, the Dutchmen got off to a sluggish start, falling behind Migdlebury, 12-4, just 3:49 into the game. However, Union came back, outscoring the Panthers 33-8 in the next 10 minutes to take a 37-20 lead. This spurt was capped off by a Todd Lafayette dunk at the 6:29 mark of the first period. The Dutchmen widened their ad- vantage to 24 points, 49-25, with just 34 seconds left before in- termission when Steve DeBalso canned his second consecutive jumpshot. Union went into the locker room holding a 49-27 halftime lead. ·The second half saw more of the same things. Union enjoyed its biggest lead of the game (31 points) 66-35, when Joe Romer hit a jumper at the 12:52 mark of the second period. From this point on, the Dutchmen cruised to an easy 83-64 victory. In all, 11 players reached the scoring column, with everyone seeing a considerable amount of playing time in this rout. Kurt Fox led the balanced offensive attack with 20 points. Todd Lafayette followed Fox with 9 points, while Neil Winawer, Joe Romer and Doug Gregory added 8 points each. However, Saturday's contest was not as easy as the Mid- dlebury game had been. A lethargic Union squad could not seem to gain any advantage at all over the scrappy North Adams team. North Adams gained a 3 point lead, 13-10, at the 11:31 mark when Tom Cronin hit a short jumper in the lane. The Dutchmen gained a 3 point advantage of their own, 25-22, with 3:21 left before intermission as Rob Parento hit a lay-up on an assist from Tom Beck. Although North Adams entered the game with a 1-9 record, Union could only manage a slim 31-30 halftime lead. The Dutchmen boosted their advantage to 44-38 at the 14:08 point in the final period as Tom ·Beck nailed a 15 foot jumper. However, North Adams closed the gap to 46-44 when Tom Cronin · converted an offensive reboWld into a bucket with 9:47 left in the game. Union ran off 12 of the game's next 14 points, gaining a 58-46 lead after Kurt Fox canned 2 free throws at the 6:14 mark. From here, the two teams played evenly, as Union. recorded its seventh win of the season, 68-57. Kurt Fox once again led Union with 18 points. He was joined in the double figure scoring column by Rob Parento with 15 points and Tom Beck with 10. Dutchmen notes . . . The Dutchmen are currently sporting a 5 game winning streak . . . Kurt Fox is leading Union's offensive attack averaging 15.4 ppg with Todd Lafayette close behind . averaging 13.2 ppg ... Union, as a team, is averaging 73.0 ppg, while giving up only 65.0 ppg ... At the moment, the Dutchmen are 6~2 at home and 0-3 on the road (also 1-0 on a neutral court) ... Union begins a tough 4 game road schedule Wed- nesday night at Plattsburgh. They return horne again Saturday February 1, to take on King's Point ... Union's JV basketball squad is presently holding a 3-1 record. Tracksters Impressive in Tri-Meet By ANDY HODGKIN The Union men's track team got an impressive showing out of their distance squad this past Friday night as they put their tri-meet with Plattburgh and Colgate away with a strong one- two-three finish in the 3000 meter event. The Dutchmen prevailed by a score of 69-64-30 with Colgate coming in second. Stenard wins 3000 At the start of the 3000, Union was tied with Colgate at 53-all. A Colgate runner broke out to a large seven second lead early with the rest of the pack well behind led by Union's Chris O'Donnell. This was how the race stood for . the first 10'00 meters or so until the Union core of Bob Stenard, O'Donnell, and Tim Orcutt started their move on the leader. For the beginning of the race Stenard was content to stay at the back of the pack but soon started to move up until he was in the lead pack with his te:mrnates and one other-Colgate runner, Stenard then left the lead pack and started reeling in the leader cutting hiS lead by a couple of se?conds each lap until he caught him with about 800 meters to go. · . Stenard then left the Colgate runn~r easily running smoothly to the finish. Meanwhile, working together, O'Donnell and Orcutt caught the fading Colgate runner and worked for the finish. Knowing they could not catch Stenard, they raced each other to the line with Orcutt prevailing by .1 seconds. Stenard finished in 9; 13.3 as his teammates finished in 9: 17.4 and 9: 17.5 respectively. Coach Russ Ebbets was very happy with this performance stating that Uniori had never finished one-two-three in any event. With this performance Union collected ten points to move out to a lead they would not relinquish. Wayne Lacy contributed eighteen points to the cause as he was a triple winner in the long jump, high jump, and pole vault and a second place finish_ in the 50 meter hurdles. Lacy easily won the pole vault with a jump of 12 ft. o and was the only competitor in the high jump (5 ft. 10 inches) and ed~ed Cline from Colgate by two centimet~rs with a leap of 6.59 meters, Union Wins Other Event Other winners for the Dut- chmen were Scott Remillard in the 35 lb. weight which he won with a toss of 15.76 meters. He also took a second in the shot put losing by five centimeters with a throw of 13.18. Rob Mohlar ran an :impressive 500 meters coming from behind to win in 1 :08.9 and brought Un- ion's 4 x 800 team back to near victory only to lose by four tenths of a second. O;Donnell won thee 1500 meter event in 4:12 followed by Marc Gagnon and Neil Ricks in third and fourth respectively. Todd Allen picked up six: points with seconds in the 50 and 400 meter events. This Saturday, the Dutchmen take their 2-2 record to Platt- sburg for the Plattsburg in- vitational. Spri.ng physicals will be held on Feb. 12, 1986 in Achilles Rink for the following teams at the respective times. Women's Softball .....•.................... 6:30 Women's LaCrosse ........................ 6:45 Women's Track ............. ~ ~ .....•. · ..••... 7:0.0 Men's Track ...........•.................. 7:00 Tennis· .•••.•....•.•...••.....•. ~ .•.••••••... 7: 1··5 Men's LaCrosse ................•....... , .. 7:30 Baseba·ll ....•.•.•• ~~ ............•.•• : .••. - .. 7:45 Pre-physicals will be held on Feb. 3rd to .fhe 7th and the 10t.h to 12th, at the following times 9 to 11:30 and 1 to 3: ~~-· __ - c; Car N 'fh signi: derst stanc New chasE Dear Mam bring to thE polic~ whicl Unior Joy purct there dissa1 part Mari< passi.J Dell cours State law, recon were feder; threal feder; did n< I ar law. 1 peoplE irresp Resp< neces: Howe statist oneki ages drivin Tha1 tbisla ()£ the age, I about alcoho cli~unk wily tl societ~ JR: minist would passed forese• DM:

J. ... ·~, CXV No. 11 Schenectady, New York Bulk Rate U.S. Postage I;' aid Permit No. 215 Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 . January 30, 1986 Registrar Meets with SAC :2 > rc 0 > .0 E 0 .c:: 0. ... By LAURENCE MANNINO A meeting between Registrar Dwight S. Yf olf and the Student Affairs Council this past Monday brought to light many of the issues that have been a source of discontent to the Union College student body. These issues encompassed a wide variety of topics including registration procedures; closed courses, so called 'card cour- ses', and exam scheduling. Regsitrar Dwight s. Wolf discusses the registration procedure. One of the issues about which there has been much debate is the practice of pre-registration. According to Wolf, the trimester system used by Union College does not allow for the time needed for the regular 0:Jrl1_pf..!S social /ife considered , , . . registration ~stem ~tUiZM by M·ammola Addresses l:ssues By JOY RUNYON / There seems to be a significant amoilllt of misun· derstanding as to the College's stance on the recently changed New York State alcohol pur· chas~ ·age. In this interview, Dean of Students Joseph Mammola clarifies issues and brings up new points in regard to the new law, Union College's policy, and other related topics which affect every student at Union .. Joy Runyon: Since the alcohol purchase age has gone up to 21' there's been a lot of dissatisfaction on the students' part here. Do you think that Mario Cuomo was justified in passing this law? Dean Mammola: Well, of course, it was the New York State legislature that passed the law, with Governor Cuomo's recommendation. They, in turn, were illlder the gun of the federal government. They were threatened with the loss of federal highway filllds if they did not pass the law. I am not in favor of the new law. I very much believe that people can be responsible or irresponsible at 19, 21, 25, or 50. Responsibility is not necessarily a flUlction of age. However, it's clear, statistically, that the number one killer of people between the ages of 18 and 24 is drunk driving. That's a good stimulus to pass this law. While I am not in fav.or Clf the change in the purchase age, I share a broad concern about ·the consequences of alcohol abuse, in particular, drunk driving .. I understand why there is a big push from society. JR: What was the ad- ministration's vision of what would happen once this law was pass«;!d? Did the administration foresee all the active protest? DM: It certainlY comes as no . . surprise to me that some students are unhappy. Anytime people lose· a privilege which they· had, there's going to be disappointment. I was brought up in Pennsylvania where the drinking age has been 21 forever, so I was pretty aware of what happens. I certainly knew as Dean of Studentg....,..I can't speak for the ad- ministration~that there would be some adjustments. ''I very much believe that people can be responsible or irresponsible at 19, 21, 25, or 50.\ M. . 1 . - ammo a I was certain that the students would be disappointed and I knew very well that colleges would see a great impact with the change in the law because, if you think about our society as a whole, it is only on college campuses that young people of that age group-educated, wise,. intelligent-congregate and look to social life and alcohol as being a central point of focus. It's groups on campuses that are mainly being affected·. The College is caught between the law on one hand, and the knowledge of the role of drinking in the college student's life. I don't think that students are aware of why the College has had to take the position it has. They have the policy without necessarily the benefit of the rationale behind it-plus the fact that they have lost a privilege. . I think you have to dif· ferentiate; you can't fault the College because the purchase age changed. The College is bound by the law, as are the students. Therefore, we have tried to adopt a policy as best we can. The choices were to have a totally dry campus or to try to reach some compromise; and that's what we're trying to do while obeying the law. JR: There's been a lot on the party policy in Concordy every week since we've been back, and I wondered if you could clarify some of what we've been seeing. DM: I would like, first of all, to say that it is not my policy; it is not the Dean's policy, as a letter-writer to Conc!)rdy has indicated. It is the College's policy. The policy was developed during Fall term by a committee of faculty members, students-including the presidents of the Panhellenic and Intrafraternity Councils and two resident assistants- and members of the ad- ministration. It's a policy that was developed with consensus from different constituencies. Furthermore, the policy was unanimously endorsed by the committee and by the Student Affairs Coilllcil. It received the official approval of the Student Forum, of the administration, and haS been adopted with the knowledge and approval of the Board of Trustees. So it is the College policy and not the Dean's policy. The policy is not meant to kill social life at Union College forever. It is not meant to make us miserable and morbid, and it is certainly not meant to punish students because the law changed. However, an inescapable fact of life is that the law has changed and that there are consequences to that change in the law. One aspect of the policy I would like to comment on is the limitation of the number of guests at a party. First of all, this part of the policy was recommended by student members of the committee who felt that, in order to discourage the large number of open parties which in the past were attended by underaged people, Continued on page 2 most other institutions. This type of registration would be unacceptable because it would add approximately two weeks to the already lengthened school year. . One of the major reasons for pre-registration is that we at Union \cram two ten week terms into the period after January 1, thus leaving no time for regular registration procedures. It must also be kept in mind that pre-registration is really pre-scheduling for classes as a matter of con· venience and the short fieldhouse registration procedure serves as a means of checking individual student records and making schedule changes if necessary. In the past, the ·pre-Pegisttation · information has been distributed on the Monday of the eighth week of the term. This year, the in- formation will be distributed on the Friday of the seventh week, thus allowing the student body an additional two days over which to assess the information, discuss course selection with advisors, and to carefully choose alternate courses in case of pre-registration closeouts. On Wednesday of the eighth week, card course lists will be posted and will be collected that Friday. Pre-registration ap- pointments will begin on Monday of . the ninth week. G;raduating seniors wUl receive scheduling priorities. Another topic of discussion concerned the problem of closed courses. Courses are 'closed' during pre-registration largely due to the combination of ex- cessive class size and lack of classroom space. Between 9:30 a.m. and 12:20 p.m. there are virtually no open classrooms. This problem is magnified when students attempt to obtain special permission from professors in order to enter a closed course. In order to remedy this problem, it has been suggested that a 'priority list' be compiled consisting of those students who were closed out of a specific course. During the next pre-registration period, the priority listed students would be given preferential treatment and would thus be automatically placed in that course. Another possible solution to the closed course problem is the proposed creation of adjunct courses to act as a 'safety valve'. These courses, which would not be listed on the schedule sheet, would only be opened in the case of overflow as a means of avoiding the closure of certain required courses. Card courses have also been a source of much discontent among Union students. The problem lies in the fact that these card courses are generally rilll on a \first come first serve\ basis. The problem Continued on page 4 u \' :::> 0 u E \' ·;: :::> 0 1- \' '0 :::> E ... \' <D 0 ,.. \' !':! ... :::> 0 v £1 0 .<: a. With no alcohol on campus, students take advantage of the latest social alternatives. In this issue • • • Events Calendar page 3 Cabaret Reviewed page 11

Page2 CONCORDlENSIS, January 30, 1986 Alcohol Issue Considered Dean Joseph Mammola responds to students' complaints con- cerning the new alcohol policy. Rape Issue Addressed: CJolltinued from .page 1 ~order to protect those. kinds of parties at fraternities, sororities, and residence halls, a reasonable compromise would be to limit the amount of guests at the party. This was not something proposed by the administration. But it was a possibility that the committee thought was a reasonable way to .proceed. It's true thatthe effect of th~ policy is to limit the number of students who can attend such events; to that degree, it's unfortunate. But it is also meant to encourage events where students can still get together. It is possible to have events on the campus that have a lot of people. Incidentally, the policy allows for gatherings of limitless number by any organization as long as alcoholic beverages are not served. The policy says if you want to serve alcoholic beverages, you need to be concerned about numbers, who comes to your party, and you Defense Tips OHered By LINDA RAFFAELE In response to the recent episodes of violence towards women on aampus, two students who volunteer at the Rape Crisis Center in Schenectady gave a talk for the residents of North College last Thursday night. Seniors Carol Levy and Debbie Snel, both psychology majors, spoke on how to protect oneself from rape. They began by dispelling the myth that fighting back provokes the attacker more. This is generally not true. The fact is that you might sustain more physical injuries if you fight back, but it is also much more likely that you will prevent the rape. In theN ationi:ll Crim~ Survey, which interviewed 135,000 adults over a period of seven years, it was found that of those women who fought back, less than 10 percent required overnight hospitalization. If you fight back, the attacker is less likely to continue in his rape attempt. It is more likely that he will retreat. Rapists look for an easy victim. Levy and Snel then suggested some approaches for fighting back. If the attacker approaches you from behind, you can use your elbows to hit him in the chest while simultaneously jamming on his foot. You can catch him off guard this way. If he approaches from the front, many women would be apt to attempt to kick him in the the groin. This is a good idea except for the fact that it gives him a chance to pull your leg out from under you and get you down on the ground. If you are close enough, kneeing him in the groin is better. You can also play up to him for a while and then catch him off guard. Some other good areas to aim for if you are going to hit him are the eyes, the neck, and the temples. Make use of the weapons that you have on you, for example, a key. If he has a weapon (and only 30 percent of attempted rapes involve a weapon and most of the time it is not used), you have to decide if you feel confident enough to fight back. If not, at least try to scream. This can be enough to scare the attacker away. These methods of attack are to be employed after the at- tacker makes his move. It is obviously more desirable to keep him from making a move in the first place. The best way to do this is, if you find yourself in a situation where you must walk alone at night, is to be aware of what is going on around you. Do not walk around with a Walkman. Anyone can walk up right behind you, and you would not know until it was too late. If you see or hear someone following you, make eye contact and be assertive with your voice. The way that you handle yourself is a weapon in itself. Tell the p.erson to stop following you, and say it in a loud voice. Pleading with the potential attacker usually leads only to more successful rape attempts. Get angry! Show him that you are in control of the situation. Your reaction in the 2()..30 seconds after making eye contact can have a great in- fluence on the outcome of the incident. For more information on rape and how to protect yourself, Snel and Levy recommend two books: In Defense of Ourselves by Linda Sanford and Ann Fetter and Rape: Fight Back and Win by Captain James Smith. In addition, the Rape Crisis Center has a 24- hour hotline which will answer questions and assist in the event of a rape. The number is 346- 2266. ;;::!:::::::::::::::::::::::!:::::::::::::~:~:~:!:~:~:~:~;~:~:!:~~===~=~=!=~===~=~=~=~=~=~:::::::::::::::~:!:~:::!:~:~:~8!:~:~:~:~:~:~:::~:~:~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:~::::::::::::::::!:l:!::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;~ ~Jileetiog: No. 10, January 20,1:• studeat Forum '115-'IIG Mbmtes I :::: Members Present: C. Siler, B. Bemell, S. Moss, K. Keaveney, A. George, J. Mountain, M. :::: · · Coleman, S. Ference, T. Dinmllllick, S. ~psky, M. Bradley, K. Siegel, R. Allen, D. Cohen ···· Members Absent:A. Carrel, R Gross, P. Virnich ' 1. The meeting was called to order at 9:00p.m. 2. The minutes of the previous meeting were read and approved in a unanimous voice vote. Conimittee Reports: 3. Andy George and Julie Mountain gave the Trustees report. The Buildings and Grounds Committee reported that the new gym is six weeks behind schedule and the student center is six to ei5ht weeks behind schedule. The college is investigating installing its own telecommunications ···· system. The current college endowment is $67 million. ·.·. :_::=_:==.===:·.= 4. Kyle Siegel reported for the SA9. They will be meeting with Dwight Wolf on Monday at 3:00 ·_:i:=.=-.:~:_:: p.m. Other topics that were discussed are: better lighting in the all night study; hand dryers and soap dispensers in the dorm bathrooms. A recommenda~ion was made by the Forum to have the :::: SAC look into an alternative to the Schenectady YMCA for student use. :;:: :;:: 5. Steve Moss reporyed on the CoC. Eric Lindhart brought a proposal to the Forum to create a ::;: :::·t::_j monthly political journal. This idea was refered back to the Co C. . -~:;-~_:.: 6. Beth Bernell gave the Finance Committee report. Three motions were presented to the Forum to approve funding. A) A motion was made to approve $4,405 for the Ski Club, contingent on Forum approval. The motion failed0:9:3 in a roll call vote. B) A motion was made to approve $160 to finance two organizational meetings of Big Brothers/Big Sisters. The motion passed unanimously. C) A motion was made to allocate $5,000 t<> Social CommitteE( from the reserve. The motion passed unanimously. ::: 7. Kathy Keaveney reported on the AAC. She presented and the Forum discliSsed the proposed ·:·: ·.f.:~ change~ indthe P~ss/Fth~il coursedo~t~on an~ th~ new addyisinf g procfedlire. A consedi~sus oft~e Fofrwnth· .1=.=-.: .. : .·.· was votce agamst . e new a vtsmg cr1tena, an m avor o a non-recor ng op ton o e . ,.,. :_~:.~ Pass/Fail option. This consensus will be presented to the AAC. : .. ~= .. ~ New Business :;:: 8. TheFreshmanDinnerwill be tomorrow. :::; :m 9. As of this F.riday, a campus security guard will be posted at SS.Ol6 to keep alcohol from en- ~~~~ .·. tering the theater. . .... ·~j~; 10. Motion to adjourn was unanimously pa~sed at10:40 p.m. . . . . . Respectfullf)!~~~!he:~ jl~; =~~:::~:::::::::::::~:~:::::!:~:::::::~:::::::::~:::::::~=~===~:::::::~===~:::::::::::~:::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::!:!!::::::!::::::::::::::::::!:=:::::::~:::~:::~:i:~ need to he responsible about monitoring the distribution of alcoholic beverages. In p~rticular, we are con- cerneil with keeping high scho()l~aged .students off the campus where they have at- tended in,the past. It's meant to .be ~r 'reasonable way of con- tinuing to allow alcoholic bever-ages to be served and to prevent the kinds of problems anq tragedies that can occur when people have parties to whi«::h.tiJewhole world is invited without being controlled. Last, the College cannot knowingly sanction such parties at which there is no control over the use of al.;:ohol without incurring charges of negligence and potential' liability. If a party occurs on Union College campus and the College knows about it, it has a responsibility to see to it that the pat1y is conducted within the law and that people have a good time without terrible things :happening. That's the intent ()f our policy. · JR: Do you think that the students are at all at fault for there being~ a lack of social life? One of their reactions is that there is no social life since the age .bas gone up and that the College has provided nothing for them to do. D~: Unfortunately, a number of factors have caught us in a bind: Number one, the change in the alcohol purchase age. The fact that the campus had come to associate socializmg and good fun. with alcohol. This is not true of all students, but it is true of some. JR: At the same time as students are actively reacting against the new policy, do you · see a substantial amount of them becoming involved in the Alternative Committee, or do see them reacting and not really trying? DM: I think the former. I . think the students are gradually understanding that they have to get involved. There are a number of things planned for the next couple of weeks. I'd like to think we had a rough first or second week back simply because the choice was for the administration to plan things for the students to do when they got back, to do the planning themselves and then \ell the students, \This is What you should do.\ To me, that's ludicrous. The only way to do things that students want to do is to plan those kinds of ac- tivities after they got back. There are plenty of people rolling up their sleeves. I think we have to rethink the College, rethink the social life. I know many students \have com- plained about the policy · I've had as. many students come to me saying, \One of the effects of this ,Ia w and this policy is that it takes the pressure off of us about drinking. Now, alcohol is not the central activity on campus.\ I am not concerned about students not being able to drink. Very clearly, they are still drinking. They will drink. We· are not a dry campus. The patterns have changed, the practice has been changed, and it will take some getting used to. \The major reason for stopping the selling of alcohol was seriop.s concern with the liability consequences.\ · · · The fact that the change came in the middle of our con- struction caught us at the worst possiblEtirne. We did not know, obvio11sly, when we started plann:iilg the college center, that the New York State Assembly was going to change the drinking age at this time. The purpose of building a new college <!enter is to provide many- more kinds of social oppor11lllities on the campus that we've had. Unfortunately, the law change catches us in the W()rst p<>ssible circumstances. The gr.-ey Schenectady winter blahs 1ue part of the problem. Fin~llr, change is always difficult. It's a cliche, but it's true. 1 likE to think that two months from now, three ·months from noVl, three years from now, we will _accommodate ourselvEs to the change; but we've <>nly been here for three weeks., and I don't think we can say we're all going to be forever unhappy. There are many people hard· at work: on the campus to help develo!) new patterns of social life. St-udents are still using alcol!oli.e beverages on campus. I think wllat they're going to have i() learn to do is to use themin a newway. That's going to take some time, but it'll work out. I feel bad especially for the seniors, i)ecause they are being asked t() be part of an abrupt change at a time in their lives when ·:they were used to somet:iling entirely different. I don't tlliilk the same problem will exist~ for instance, for next year's incoming freshman dass. But thE upperclassmen, I think, are probably saddened by things and probably think that somethi11g tremendously ex- citing has bee~ taken from Union College. I sympathize with that. · -Mammola JR: Having the bar ripped out of the Skellar has not only created a physical difference; it's also created a symbolic difference in the social life of the Skellar. DM: I agree with you. The Skellar is in transition. I think, in hindsight, it would have been better for the counter not to have been chainsawed into oblivion Wltil the new deli cases had arrived. It looks like the Texas Chainsaw Murderer has been through the Skellar; and I'm disappointed with the way it looks, also. Aesthetically, it's a bummer. I'm hoping that, within the next week or two, all the new equipment will have arrived and that it can become more aesthetically pleasing than it looks right now. JR: I think a lot of students have the idea that the bar in the Skellar and other alcohol facilities were ripped out because of the drinking age and the College wants to bend over backwards to comply, and because of the legal problems whicb could have arisen. DM: The law is very clear.' When a vendor sells alcohol to a person who is imder the legal age, or even to a person who is above the legal age but who is intoxicated, and that person causes an accident, the vendor is- potentially liable. When the College · sold alcoholic beverages in the Pub or Skellar, it was no different from a local bar. You have to remember that only approximately 25 per cent. of the student body would be able to legally purchase alcoholic beverages if the College decided to go back to selling them. Bringing back beer to theSkellar doesn't solve· any problem for the remaining .continued on page 3 (!) \'0 0 .... I.. ltl :::> .... V) >- .c 0 .... 0 .c 0. 1 ( Uni Isr~ thet latE atte Rue and lnl Leo (!f.t-~x ~ ~~ I '·\·~..; ,. ~~jqs, R\~ ~1~'·':-:.':.>: ;.' :f. -\ ··;ft. i ( ''J \.r:N ~~ .·)~;!-' '•;w >~rk; 'l-'':\\'%, • Dire Willi It om dead the chOSE the ( The Fiscl but l 1'11-al don't life it goon terro a ter Fis with J!emo agair retUI cc se· co of Co Tr ele Tr GE I 1 1/g ~ -=~=~=~=~=~:~: 30 M 31- l 1- ] ( 1- 3- 12: 4- 1 I De p.IJ ( 5- ( (

Terrorism Hits Students Abroad By DAVE MARIN On Friday, December 27, five Union students on their way to Israel for a term abroad found themselves in the midst of the latest international terrorist attack. Jon Pollack '86, Shari Ruoff '87, Francie Fischer '87, and Amy Sirkin '87 were injured 'in an attack on travelers at Leonardo da Vinci Airport in shrapnel in the leg that reportedly was too deep to he removed. Pollack also took a piece of shrapnel under the eye, which was removed latei\ -in Israel. Professor William Thomas Director of the Terms Abroad Program, says that he is not sure how this event as well as other recent terrorist activities · will affect students' interest in going abroad. He knows of only five students who have chosen to drop out of the programs they planned to attend: two from Greece, two from Israel, and one from Vienna. He said he does not ,know that will happen v Page3 >- .:,(. 1/) c E ro ~ >- \- \- ro ,_i >- .D 0 .,_ 0 .s::. a. . next year, but he will have a . better idea in a couple of weeks when applications for fall terms are due. If Italy . is any in- dication, however, there will be little effeet as Thomas has alr~ady received a large number of applications for that program. The last recorded evidence of drinking in the Skellar. ·social Changes Discussed Director of Terms Abroad,· Prof. William Thomas Rome which left fifteen people dead and 80 others injured. Of the five, Farber and Ru6fi chose to return to the U.S. while . the other three continued on. The Hartford Courant quoted Fischer as stating ''I'm scared, but I've got to go on. If I don't, 1'11-always be afraid to fly and I don't want to live the rest· of my · life in fear. And I've also. got to. go on because if I don 'f, then the terrorists will win. And it will be a terrible world if they win.\ Fischer was struck in the leg with shrapnel which was Pemoved in Rome and treated again in Tel Aviv. Ruoff, who returned, was struck with Discretwn Advised Asked about whether or not students should reconsider going abroad, he commented that this was a decision each student had to make on his-her own. He believes, however, that for the time being, travel abroad is still worthwhile. He does recommend that travelers exer~ise caution when traveling abroad, making sure they proceed quickly to security areas and the like so as to minimize the chances of being hUrt. ' . Two min!>r ~djustments nave been made to the programs in Israel and Greece. A one-week • trip to Egypt from Israel has been cancelled and students in the Athens, Greece program were advised not to travel directly from Athens to any Mid East country. CORRECTION: Due to editing errors, there are several corrections to be made to the article concerning William Burns, Chairman· of the Board of Trustees, which appeared in last week's issue of Concordiensis. . Arnold Burns~ former Chairman of the Board of Trustees did not resign, but Instead completed his elected term. He will remain with the Board of Trustees as Gene.ral counsel. A correction to a statement made by Andrew George, Senior Campus Trustee is as follows: \ ... I find him to be genuinely concerned \ not \generally\ as stated in the article. Cpncordiensis regrets these errors. THIS WEEK'S EVENTS Continued from page 2 75 per cent. I think that's a key factor in all of this. Unfortunately, there's a major crisis in liability in- surance. It's been skyrocketing all over the place. The College's policy, during the last year, was increased by 42 per cent. It will probably be increased at least that much again this coming July. The liability insurance for the Pub and the Skellar is tied in with the College,s entire insurance policy. If you are found guilty of serious liability damages, you run the risk of losing all your liability coverage. It is not prudent to take this risk . We <tid not stop selling alcoholic beverages in the Pub or Skellar because we want students to feel bad, or because we want them to drive off campus to drink, or because we want to punishthem, or because we hate drinking. The major reason for stopping the selling of alcohol was serious concern with the liability consequences. JR: You mentioned driving off campus· to drink. Is there any way that the College could make it possible for stlldents of age to go off campus and ensure that they come back safely? There are a lot of campaigns going on right now, like having one person in the group stay sober to drive; but if that should fail within a given group, would there be a possibility of the College providing btises or something-not blat.antly to bars, but to drop them off and bring them back? DM: Yes. There is a very 30-CABARET; featuring the· Dutch Pipers and the Garnet Minstrels with a special guest M.C,-OCDR, 10 p.m. - Student Concert Band Performance-Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Career Development Programs Recruiting: Closed sign-ups for weeks E & F -CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 31-Film: Desperately Seeking Susan-88016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. Entertainment by Michael Jerllng (free dish of ice cream with a ticket stub from any event), Skellar, 10 p.m.:.12 a.m. Career Development Programs Recruiting: open sign-ups for weeks E & F-CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 1-GRE Exams:-Social Sciences, 8 a.m.~ p.m. Basketball; Union vs. King's Point-Fieldhouse, 8 p.m. · CABARET: featuring Srian Laux, Ken Moor, and another act to be announced---QCDR, 9 p.m. 1-2-Film: Desperately Seeking Susan-88016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. 3-IEF Discussion Series: \Women in the Curriculum & the Institution\-Humanities Lounge, 12:31lp;m. · 4-Film: Absence of Malice-SS016, 7, 9, 11 p.m. Hockey: Union. vs. Williams:-Achilles Rink, 7:30p.m. Biology Seminar Series.: \Visual Communication in Anolis Lizards\ with Leo Fleislnnan, Department of Neurobiology and Behavior, Cornell University (Host: R. Olberg)-88117, 4:30 p.m. Career Development Programs Orientation to the CDC-CDC, 12:30 p.m. Recruiting: closed sign-ups for weeks G & H-CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. 5-Minerva Hour with Most Rev. Howard J. Hubbard-88016, U: ao a.m. Great Discussion.Series: \How Foreign Policy is Made-Central America\-HHLL 7:30p.m. Career Development Programs . . Recruiting: open sign-ups for weeks G & H-CDC, 8 a.m.-5 p.m. Resume Preparation~HU113, 4:30p.m. . . . . . .. ~ ~ ,. serious discussion going on right now about the possibility of a shuttle bus for students that wouldn't be directed just at bars, but could be used, for example, to drive to Crossgates or Mohawk Mall to go shopping If you want to go to the movie theatres, for example, there are six theatres at Mohawk Mall, or if you want to go to Albany to the theatre, or go downtown to the YMCA or to Saratoga or some other place. We are looking into that question, and hope to have some kind of bus like that available. I would .push it even harder if I were sure students would use it. The worst possible thing we could do is to make tbis bus available ·and pay someone to drive it, and then not h~ve it be used. If the students could let me know if they would like something like this, I'd be glad to do it. I think it's a great idea. JR: Do you think it's a coincidence that students are starting to react to everything, or do yoll think a lot of it has been facilitated by the raising of the purchase age? . DM: I think a majpr cause of discontent has been the dif- ficulty in registering for many classes. I think that that is an unfortunate consequence of a number of things. And I think it's tough to come back after a six-week vacation and crank it up and get back to the books. I know it was. for me when I was a student. JR: There have been a lot of very facetious cartoons por- traying you and Assistant Dean Massa. How do you view those? DM: I have a mixed reaction to them. First of all, I am very pleased to be part of a college in which the student newspaper feels it's okay to make fun of the administration. I'm very proud of that, and I guess that, to me, is the positive part. I've always enjoyed kidding with students. I hope we'll never reach a point where we can't have a sense of humor about things. The negative part is when I take Concordy home and show it to my sons. I am forever parodied again by them. They think Concordy has me down a lot better than I do. My only problem is trying to stifle the great enjoyment my sons have in seeing me parodied by Concordy, but generally speaking, I understand that if you have a position of responsibility, you sometimes have to make unpopular decisions, or at least share in them, and you have to have pretty thick skin. That's life, I guess. JR: For the second week in a row, there's been an anonym.9us letter directed at you in Con- cordy. I wonder if you have any comments on that, or anything you'd like to direct at the writer of those letters. DM: My only disappointment is the large number of inac- curacies in the letters, which probably accounts for the reason why the writer chose not to put his or her name on the letters. I'm disappointed that someone feels there is a reason why he or she cannot risk having their name published when they criticize the College and members of the ad- ministration. I've talked to many students about current happenings on the campus and I would prefer their feeling confident that they can personally acknowledge criticisms of the administration or of things that are happening on the campus. To .sum up, I wish that the person would not feel afraid or embarrassed, after two con- secutive weeks, to take responsibility for some·of the things that they are saying. There are simply too many inaccuracies in the letters to comment specifically on all of them. I've tried through this in- terview to correct a number of them. Whoever the letter writer is, I would prefer that we talk face to face, and I'd be very glad to answer his or her con- cerns. JR: Would you be willing to go to Geneva for that? DM: Yes, I would go to Geneva-although I don't think it's necessary. The Swan Street Band will perform in the Skellar Tues., Feb. 4 10 p.m. to Midnight

. I ! Page 4 College Press Service ot::l.flw•d ~' \ ~ V\\.(. ·~·\'¥ SECURI:TY TIPS • Don't walk alone at night, when possibl-e. • Tell someone where you're going and when you expect to be there. • Use public walkways. -Avoid ar~as that are not well-lit. • Call security for on-campus escort at night. • Keep the front doors of residence halls locked at all times. • Report strangers and intruders to security at once. SECURITY EMERGENCY NUMBER IS 6911 SAFE PLACE is a support group for families and friends of suicide victims. Group members share their feelings and experiences in complete coAfidence. We meet the second and fourth Tuesday of each month, from 7:30 p.m. to '\10:00 p.m. at The Samaritans, 200 Central Avenue in Albany. There is no fee for this group. For more information, please call 463·2323 anytime day or night. What's UpAroundCampus Campus Attacker Arrested Union College Security reports the arrest of an in- dividual suspected in the recent 4 attacks on Union women. The suspect apparently fits the descriptions given by those attacked. · As before, Security continues to offer escort service to Union students living on or near campus. In addition,. Security has hired an additional officer specifically in response to demands fo~ added security in lieu of the situation. College Receives Grant The latest boost to the College Center is a $100,000 grant by the Booth Ferris Foundation of New York. \The Booth Ferris Foundation responded Registrar ••• Continued from page 1 that arises from this method is that many students for whom a particular course is required may not be able to take it due to the fact that they did not sign up for it in time. This practice results in card courses solely being used for numerical enrollment purposes without taking into con- sideration a student's reasons for taking the coW'se. Wolf says, \List (card) courses should only be used by: the departments if they have some special criteria, some selection , criteria. If its just 'who gets there first' or 'who gets their name on top of the list' there is no purpose for card courses.\ This topic will be one of the focal points of Wolf's meeting generously to our request for funds to help complete our new College Center,\ said President John Morris. With close to $100 rnlllion, the foundation supports independent high'er education, especially liberal arts colleges. History Courses Offered America beginning on April 2. Each course has 'been designed to have a local twist. For in- formation oantact the Graduate and Continuing Studies office at 370-6288. Fundraiser Leaders Appointed President Morris has an- And for you history buffs, nounced the leadership fer this Union College's Graduate and year's . Annual Business Continuing Studies Office is Campaign. Chairing the offering three new history Executive Committee is Robert courses as part of its non-credit A. McCormick, president -of program to coinCide with the ..__Schenectady Trust Company. ce~ebr:atio!l of Albany's Richard A. Willig, president of Trwentenmal. Willig & Gallet Realty, Inc. will They are Forest Diplomats: serve as vice chairman. The An Exploration of Iroquois Annual Business Campaign, Indian History and . Culture, now in its sixteenth year, an- beginning Fe!Jruary 6, Early nually contr:ibutes: more than Schenectady: Influences of the $100.,000 to the colle.ge for Founding Nations, starting operating expenses such as March 25, and Maritime scholarship support. with the department heads on January 29. The distribution of the final exam schedule is another issue which arose during the course of the meeting. Previously, exam schedules were distributed late in the term, causing traveling plans to be made at the last minute. The reasons for such a late schedule exam release were generally centered in the fact th·at many departments have \common exams\ in which all classes in a pa-rticular course take the final exam at the same time. This practice has caused many scheduling difficulties which must be resolved and inevitably result in a late release date. The other factor which contributes to the problem is the policy of waiting tor scheduling changes to be finalized before constructing the . examination schedule. At the present time, however, it looks as if these problems have been remedied and the final exam schedule will be printed in next week's issue of the Con- -cordiensis. In the future students may look forward to many possible improvements in our current system. 'f.flese possibilities include: a change in the use of card courses, adjunct courses to be used in the case of everload, and priority waiting lists for those who have been closed out of certain courses. Wolf stressed that- the registrar's office exists to help, not hinder th~ students' ~ducation and it is . open for any comments or possible solutions which the student body could offer. PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience. Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! ,free 32 oz. Soda with any order over $5.00 on Sunday nights .. _ c I TJ

CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 PageS ..._ ______________ - ........•....................... , ............................................................ . ,. . . . . the difference is • .• ..• your kind of place · .• . the difference is exciting g.ifts •. . the difference is distinctive cards a!nd ·sta·tionary _ .• • the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount .. • the dijjerence is minutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty.•and South Terry Streets Schenecttidy. Viso- Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-F'ri.J0:00-5:30 Sat.l0:00-5:00 • • • . : n·)l~~~ • . ~ • . ,'l,j i Ba1r Des1gns tl i WINTER SPECIALS! -~ • • • : ~-------~--~~--~~~--~---~ : ~ I PERMS i HAIRCUT( ! i I . Includes Cut I & BLOW bRY J i ~ 1. $ 3 . QOO .1 $)·· ·Q·... oo I l . • 1. . I . ·I • . I . . . · i I Reg. $42 I · · Reg. $14 ·. I · : I I j ~!!!!!!!!.!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~!!!!!!!!!!!!!!~~ ! ·L.------- Valid th;u Feb. 1-5 -------- Moffett'S Liquors; · ~ 101.-FRI. •·• .37. 2-000· 1 111 u•••• sT. Invites you to : SAT. 1-1 SCH'DY : • • f i g·ht off th·e •••••· .••..•••.••.•...•.... -................................................................. .. cold with our ~ many varieties of Schnapps You want it, We've got it And we still DELIVER! Van Branken Ave. (next to Norstar Bank) Go Dutchmen! TERM ABROAD 6 l\- The locations for the general Term Abroad meeting schediJied for Tuesday, February 4 at 4:30 are crs follows: Japan ••. ~ .•..••..•••.••••••.••••••• Soc. Sci. 1 1 z Mexico •.•.••.•..••••.•.••.••••••••• Soc. Sd. 113 • • Greece ••••••.•.•••.••••••••.•••••••••• Hum 014 •• rr~~l;~t.~r Israel ••••.•••.....•.••••.•..• .\' •••••••• Hum 0 l9 Italy •••••••.••....•.••••....••••• , ...• Hum 114 England •••...... : ..•.••.•.••.••••••.••• Hum 115 Soc. Med •••.•...••.•.••••..•.•••••••••• Hum 117 France . . • • • . • • . • • . • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • l!um 0 16 Germany ••••••••••.•. , ••••••••••••••••• Hum 110 Open Sunday through Thursday from 1:30 p.m. until 12 midnight. Friday and Saturday until 12:30 a.m. Watch for our new Hot Meatball Sub. Unior:- College Speakers Forum and Social Committee present 3 Young Comedians from The lmprov in N. Y .C. and Dinner Night - Saturday, February 8, 7:00p.m. Cost: A meal card punch or $5.00 Reservations MUST be made by Wednesday, February 5th. Only 160 seats are available in Old Chapel for this event. Winteifest is coming!! February 14-16 Celebrate Valentine~s Day with The Romantics!! Special Meeting of the Women 1 S· Commission regarding a new escort service. Thursday, Jan. 30 at 1.2:30 . 2nd Floor Whitalce House Schaeffer Library will· hold a booksale in the main . lobby on Tuesday, February 4th a1d Vfed- nesday, February 5th. The scale will begin on Tuesday at 8:30 a.m. and will end at 4:00 p.m. the following day. Hardcover items • $1.00. Paperbacks $o50. • mnton <!olltge ..:tacultp €olloquium JANET ANDERSON Associate Professor of Chemistry How Does the Structure of a Biopolymer Affect It's Biological Function? _ Tuesday; February 18,4:30 p.m. SS016 Coffee & Tea at 4:00p.m. All are welcome to attend THERE WILL BEAN ARTS CLUB MEETING ON THURS., FEB.·6th at 7:00p.m. · New Members are Welcome!! Women's Network Meeting Thursday Jan. 30 at 9:00 ~ Rm. 55110 - ... ~ ... -··· ·--· ~· ...... ..

Page 6 CONCORDIEN$IS, \ianuary 30, 1986 • ~------------~--------~~~--~~~~~~----~~~~--~------- FEATURES <ll c. .c a >- ..... l1l :f >- .!) 0 - 0 .c c. Professor C.Williarn Huntley The ~reat Hockey Affair by C. WILLIAM HUNTLEY Editoes Note: This is the second in a series of excerpts from Professor C. William Huntley's bol)k entitled Thirty Years in the Life of a 'College. In December of 1974, two months after his inauguration, President Bonner made it very clear what his policy was to be in the matter of intercollegiate athletics. Observing that Union College was committed to building a \strong athletic program in a strong college,\ he went on to say, \We intend to be competitive in all sports with ·, our colleagues in the New England s-mall College Athletic Conference\ (NESCAC) for \Union must never stand for anything less than the best.\ A month later, the College announced the appointment of Ned Harkness as manager of the Rink and hockey coach. Harkness had coached at both RPI and Cornell, and was currently with the Detroit Red Wings, that the director of admissions was warned by the provost that any more '~irregularities\ would mean the end of his ap- pointment. It was also reported that the president asked the provost and thedean of students to do what they could to sup- press an investigation into the practices of the admission of- fice, but this may have bf;!en rumor rather than fact. The issue sharpened when the Concordy wrote that \the whole hockey program, which should be a unifying factor on the campus, has become a very divisive issue .. . the situation can only worsen until all the unanswered questions about admission, academics, and finances in tbe hockey program are finally cleared up.\ Blue Angels Rebound Harkness moved quickly to recruit hockey players . .It was reported at the time that he sought to recruit twenty young men who struck him as ex- cellent players, and persuaded all twenty to come to Union. For the first time in its history, Union began having Canadians in some number applying for admission. Losing no time, Harkness announced a twenty- four game schedule for the coming year, all of the op- ponents being in Division II. He was quoted in the Coneordy as saying, \We are playing competitive Division II teams to see whether or not we are capable of goil}g into Division I.\ And this was before the Rink was completed! Competition had not been long underway the next winter when there was a brouhaha about the academic eligibility of one of the players, this perhaps being a signal of the turmoil that was to come. In its first season, the team finished first in its division and was invited to the play-offs, after drawing capacity crowds all year. Schenectadians, both alumni and nonalumni, packed the Rink and were loud in their enthusiasm for a winning hockey team. The details surrounding the admission of (one student) may well have been what opened the whole issue. In the fall of 1976, a faculty member, looking over the credentials of one of his freshmen advisees, was shocked to note that one man had a verbal score on the College Boards of less than 300, a value about 2()0 points lower than the average of the clas~. By ROB GUARINO The U.S. Navy stunt team, the Blue Angels, will be back this year with a full slate of airshow exhibitions including a stop at Fl.ght '86 which will be held at the Schenectady County Airport in August. This comes despite the team's tragic '85 season which saw two of its planes destroyed apd one of its pilots killed. The mishap occurred at NIAGARA Falls International Airport last June when two of the six McDonnell Douglas A-4D Skyhawks collided during a difficult dual-opposing maneuver'. This particular segment of the show involves the two aircraft on a very low pass toward one another at the combined speed of over 1,000 mph. Just before the aircraft pass each other, they both roll inverted and begin a 3.2g climb which culminates at 6,000 ft. with both topping out upright. The midair occurred at the top · of this maneuver when the wing and fuselage of one of the air- craft hit the tail of the other. Lt. Anthony P. Caputi ejected from the aircraft with the damaged tail but Lt. Cdr. Robert M. Gershon was killed when he was unable to gain control of his damaged aircraft and it crashed into the ground. The two ail\'crafts have been replaced but unfortunately the lost life has not. The team has put this tainted past behind them and is now approaching the upcoming season with renewed spirit. They are now at their winter training base in the desert of California preparing for their upcoming international tour which officially began last week at the Senior Bowl. Their halftime flyby kicked off the 1986 Exhi.bition Campaign which will be a season long celebration commemorating the 75th anniversary of Navy- Marine Corps Aviation as well as the 4oth- anniversary of the Blue Angels. The highlight of this year's tour will un- doubtedly be the spectacular aerial display that is planned for the reopening of Miss Liberty on the 4th of July. Another important stop on this year's tour, at least for the Capital District, will be the August 23rd and 24th ap- pearance of the Blue Angels at the Flight '86 Airshow held at the Schenectady County Airport in Scotia. This comes after the Blue Angels' cancellation of their Flight '85 appearances which ironically was scheduled to take place the same weekend of the disaster in Niagara Falls. Before last year, . the Blue Angels had made Schenectady a regular tour stop every other year since 1975. The return of the Blue Angels, after a three year absence, . has the local community looking forward to August, and not only for the horse racing season. This year's show will benefit the Schenectady Chapter of the American Red Cross as well as the newly established Empire State Aviation Museum. The museum has not yet been constl.\'ucted but plans for its ground breaking for its opening have been set. The only thing that the committee lacks is the necessary funding. The show should give these people the push they need to finish up the project. The attendance at the last three shows has averaged well over 60,000 people a weekend. If the weather holds I'm sure this year's show will Anyone wanting To Work Student Security Call Larry X6648 or Russ 374-1994 Immediate openings bring the same numbers out, maybe even more. If you plan to be in Schenectady this summer, I'm sure that Flight '86 will be well worth the three mile journey to Scotia. other doings .at the airport on this summer weekend will in- clude a parachute jumping team and various other aerobatic performances with a special appearance by the world renowned French Con- nection Team. Numerous military aircraft will be · on public display. ·Among these will be the Air Force's K010 better known to us as the McDonnell Douglas DC10. Also, you will be able to walk through the largest aircraft in the world, the Lockheed C-5A. Military fighter jets such as the F-14 Tomcat, the_F-15 Eagle, and the F-16 will also be on display. Tickets for the two day show will go on sale early this spring at Richmor Aviation at the airport. other area outlets will be selling tickets including the box office at Proctor's. If you're going to be arow1d in August and you can sp~re a day off from the track, I highly recommend this show. I've been to four of them and it seems like they just keep getting better and better. Signs of growing tension within the , College were, however, beginning to be ap- parent. The Concordy, late in the spring of 1976, published a report suggesting that athletes at Union were receiving preferred financial aid. The study, done by Charles Holleman '77 and Peter Berick '78 stated, for example, that 82 percent of the hockey players were receiving financial aid, against the college average of 35 percent. The average financial aid given to hockey players · was reported as $1,015, almost twice the current college average of $605. The following October, the issue of where hockey belonged in the Union College .picture began to engender considerable heat. The first intimations of irregularities in admitting hockey players to the College became public knowledge. It was reported in the Concordy In January Qf 1977, a task force on athletics, which President Bonner had ap- pointed several months earlier, brought in an eighty-page report dealing with. many facets of the athletic situation at the College. The part attracting the most .attention was a recom- mendation that the College forego Division I hockey and remain a member of NESCAC. The arguments offered for-this position were largely those stated above; those for aban- doning NESCAC were the ones usually advanced for bigtime athletics: increased income, atracting more students; gaining national publicity, and the like. In the meantime, campus sentiment revealed some in· teresting diffel.\'ences. In the faculty, the people in the humanities and the social sciences were reported.as being overwhelmingly in favor of the task force's recommendations regarding hockey, those in science wer~ split, and the engineers took strong exception to.the notion of remaining with NESCAC and supported the president in wanting big-time Continued on page 7 8/fi BRfJTHERS-8/fi SliTER$ of Stlleneclt1dy County SUNDAY GROUP PROGRAM The Sunday Group Program started Sunday, January 19, in the Social Science Bui:Jding·, All volunteers are requested .to arrive early to greet the .Youngsters when they arrive~ We have ap· proximately 38 children signed up to attend. The dates for the program this term are: February 2, February 9, February 16, February 23, March 2 and Mar.ch 9. The Sunday Group leaders are: Fred Rothberg, Dan Sheppard, Joanne Sternheimer and Marc Arkovitz. Red Wings Hockey Game The Union College BB/BS Executive Committee has arranged a Red Wing Hockey Game for all the Union Big Brother, Big Sisters and their Littles. The game is scheduled for Saturday Night, February 22. Admission, transportation,. and refreshM ments are being 'provided·b~ the Committee. This .is a very popular event and seating w11l be limited, so please make your reservation early. Call our office to make your.reservation and find out the time and location for the bus trip to the game. !! pl u w C< to w Tt B1 is: to R1 cc w; fo1 de hu de so: cr· stJ of pu fr< Fo th~ PJ.\I Ac D'. th( ag: of 1 Chi be: prt cru din \bl ine iSS I top paJ en~ rna not par selt stu C01 hoc c mo fac att1 att1 rat] his waf and cha hav wa~ my: spe. adv to 1 civi staJ pro· attB vot~ foil Cou Smi Sbnl nan him tak~ posi had of d had the1 Rinl

CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 Page7 FEATURES ,. . Undergrod Review Progresses By MICKEY BRADLEY This ye~r marks the fourth publication of the Undergraduate Review and, as with past years, its function as a collegiate journal is continuing to expand. Last year's Review, which was distributed Fall Term, saw what editor Phil Bean called their \most varied issue,\ andthis year's promises to continue advancing the Review in both quality and content. The Union College Undergraduate Review of the Humanities and Social Sciences was formed in 1982 as a medium for exhibiting exemplary un,. dergraduate work in the humanities and social sciences departments. \We· are nOt solicitipg editorial essa~ or creative writing,\ states Bean, stressing the academic aspect of the journal. Funding for the publication originally came from the Internal Education · Foundation (IEF), but this year that grant ran out. Bean aP\' proached Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea last year to discuss the need for new funding, and he agreed to finance future issues of the Review. Meanwhile, the Structure and character of the Journal is still being forged. \There's no precedent for this on this campus,\ explains Bean, ad- ding that that the Review is \beginning to take on some inertia of its own.\ Last year's issue showed a wide variety of topics in the span . of its ten papers, from philosophy to engiPeering to humanities to math. That broad selection was not a conscious decision.on the part of the editorial board (who selects published papers from student submissions), no quotas are set to establish a variety of topics. Bean explains that \quality comes first, but we do make an effort to preserve the well roundedness of the publication.\ That diversity will probably be increased even further this year, with the possibility of printing some foreign language papers ·in the Review. . Submissions like those would have to be chosen by language department professors who col.lld determine the quality of the papers. :S ut most entries are screened by the editorial board which consists of Bean and .four other students (Dave Beal, Mick~y Bradley, Karen Lavarneway, and Barbara Pon}, plus four faculty mem· bers (Profs. Frazier, Jonas, Sorum, and Warger). They divide into two groups, each reading and critiquing half of the submissions (anonymously) and .scoring th~m. The papers receiving the highest scores are published in the Review. In addition to foreign language papers, the 1:986 Review plans to print fresh- men~preceptorial papers, and is seeking to increase its sub- missions from other colleges. The journal's Call For Papers has been sent, as in past years, to schools throughout the Northeast, and this year two professors f:r:om other schools (Hamilton and Skidmore) have been invited to serve on the editorial board. Though last year's overall submission count was the highest in the journal's short history, only two papers from outside colleges were received, and neither was selected for publication. D'Andrea sees this as somewhat of a setback for the Review, and he hopes over the course of the next few years to Hockey History Continued'from page 6 hockey. On March third, there was the most acrimonious general faculty meeting I have ever attended. President Bonner attempted to explain and rationalize his position, but then his right to chair the meeting was questioned from the floo:r:, and he.asked that I take over as chairman. In all the years that I h;:tve had to lead meetings, this was the only time that I found myself telling more than one speaker that he would be well advised to confine his remarks to those of a gentleman, that civility was a requirement for staying at the meeting. The provost's memo was strongly attacked, and was rejected by a vote of 63-39. At the Pub following the meeting, the Concordy reported that Dean Smith called Professor Ker- shner an exceedingly obscene name and•allegedly threatened him for the'stand which he had taken at the meeting in op- posing the provost. Kershner had just completed a short tour of duty as athletic director and had been very much involved in the design and completion of the Rink. It is sad to relate that his home was vandalized one night by a group of young men, and while on this unpleasant sub- ject, some members ·Of the Concordy staff alleged that they had been threatened by members of the hockey squad. In March, Harkness admitted that he had lied to the president when, in December, he had been asked about a possible violation in recruiting prac· tices. The following day, President Bonner held a news conference to announce that he was suspending Mr. Harkness, saying in part, \I share ... a deep personal regret that this situation has occurred on our campus and want to assure you that ... I will work with the Board of Trustees and my colleagues in NESCAC to assure that the reputation of this institution remains one of honesty and integrity.\ Harkness was quoted in the New York Times as saying, \I lied, but I lied to save my hockey program.\ A few days later, an Alumni Council committee heaped a few coals on the fire by recommending that Union leave NESCAC and begin playing Division I hockey. ... to be continued next week Mon. night, 7 P.M. February 3 the Newman Club presents Jonathan Hill of Covenant House Humanities Lounge 2nd Floor, Upstairs ' · \build a network,. .of in- tercollegiate faculty to serve on the edicorial board to help solicit papers from their schools. Eventually, predicts D'Andrea, these other schools might start sharing financial responsibility for the journal as well. \What could really be ex- citing is if Union got the reputation for being known for scholastic achievement,\ says D'Andrea and Bean agrees, stating that one of the utilities of the Review could be to enhance the school's prestige. Its other primary goals are to recognize high quality undergraduate work, to exemplify for other students models of what they can achieve, . and-hopefully-to entetiain and inform. In these areas, too, the journal con- tinually grows stronger. The deadline for submissions this year is February 7, and Bean encourages all ~udents to consider submitting any papers they feel suitable for .publication and of superior quality. \The worst obstacle that we encounter is people's modesty,\ he says. \Let us be the judges.\ Vice President for Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea Sophomores Your new Class Representative to the Student Forum is: Lisa Galati Voter turnout: 73 {14.8%) Covenant House Speaker By FEATURES STAFF Because of the poor weather conditions this past Monday, Jonathan Hill, a speaker from Covenant House, was unable to come to Union. However, he will be speaking Monday, February 3, at 7:00p.m. in the Humanities Lounge on the topic of \The Realities of Covenant House: Its Successes and Its Failures.\ Covenant House was foWlded by Father Bruc Ritter in New York City to give young rWlaways an alternative to pronography and prostitution. Thousands appear every day, some with knapsacks and a little money in their pockets, some with nothing but the clothes on their backs. Many of them wind up on the stre.ets of Times Square-along with the muggers, the derelicts, the pimps, and the prostitutes. As they walk down the infamous \Mirifiesota Strip,\ they- are . 0 I) 0 c 0 0 0 . 0 . • 0 0 \ II 0 0 . 0 0 0 v_./', 0 -- - ·- 0 offered every kind of drug imaginable, every type of perversion conceivable. Who are they? They are the runaways, the throwaways, the street kids. Kids from every socio-economic background, from every walk of life. They are black, white, and Hispanic; male and female. They are hungry, sick, tired, and in need of comfort .and security. Within a few weeks, a few days, a few hours, they lose that part of themselves which gives them dignity, self-esteem, hope. They begin to live in a nightmare world where the code is in- timidate or be intimidated, exploit or be exploited, survive or ..... Some of them do not learn about survival quickly enough. . Police have estimated that there are 20,000 runaways on the streets of New York at any given time. (Runaways refer to those youngsters 15 years Of age 0 0 0 \ 0 c a r----- . - o~2mi ° COLLEGED 0 Q . . 0 <) 0 0 p v 0 0 --.J' .. ,, -·' - / )~ -· 0 . () and younger.) There are many more youths over that age who are homeless and on the streets as well. In desperation, many of these children and young adults sell themselves to the flesh peddlers of 42nd Street-the pornographers, the pimps, the pedophiles. Under the protection of organized crime, the billion dollar sex industry continues to flourish, feeding off the bodies of these youngsters who have no other alternatives- youngsters who are sub- sequently raped, beaten, tor- tured, held prisoner, and even murdered. In despair, in hope, many of these children turn to Covenant House's UNDER 21, a 24-hour crisis center. To learn mote about the realities of Covenant House, please plan to attend the lecture sponsored by Newman Club this Monday. (A review of last Thursday's Covenant House benefit Cabaret can be found on page 12.) ~ 0 () 0 • 0 0 0 • 0 Q () • ' 0 II • 0 0 . • ' <I D 0 .. 0 c. 0 ~ Q -~ . ------- 7\\. ..- __.r - l 1: .!. ~-'1.. _._..~,....-- - r' -'-~ .... _ >- .)(. Ill e ftl co c ftl ....., >- n 0 .... 0 .c Q.

PageS CONCQRDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 <Jllllt.Cllfbirnsis FoUIJfkd al limon. College 1877 ----------~ ----~-- Safety It's more than just a slippery subject, it's downright detrimental. We're speaking about the sidewalk situation here on campus. Okay, fine. We asked for it, living in the Northeast. But, .after 11 feet, 7 inches of snowfall the·least we can ask for is that our sidewalks be shoveled. And even when the walkways are shoveled, they are covered with ice, making any campus traverse not only ·difficult but dangerous as well. Many students already have bruised knees and elbows, not to mention the humiliation suffered from a fall on the ice. It's pathetic to think that such ·a simple task as keeping the sidewalks clear and safe is so difficult to accomplish here. . We're not moaning about things that we cannot change. This problem is~ fundamental one, one that's easy to understand. It's a question of our safety and it's too bad we have to ask: what kind of place is this? It is the responsibility of the College to see that its students and its employees are living and working in a safe environment. Is this responsibility forgotten when we get outside? In this day of concern for better campus security, what about just letting us walk without the fear of falling at any instant? We're merely asking that our campus be a safe place to work, learn and live. It seems as though somewhere in the daily schedules of Physical Plant workers there ought to be some time dedicated to clearing walkways which cannot yet be seen and putting salt on those smothered with ice. What do these workers do all day if they cannot even ac- complish a necessary task such as this? We hate to bring up the money issue again. But, we're sure the budget has some room to provide salt, shovels and the people to use them. Will it take an injured student and some litigation ( oh no, not that!) to nielt the ice? Excellence Some have said that Union students have a pre- Il.'ofessi.onal attitude. Others have said that their studies get in the way of their learning. For example, during finals week at the end of last term, students signer! out keys and disks to the Rainbow computers for the entire week. Due to the limited number of computers, many students; were effectively cut off from their use because a few had decided that they had a divine :ight to use them. Some would consider these student~ \cut throat.\ In addressil1g this situation, we must make the distinction between success and excellence. Yes, the students who kept the computer keys for the entire week would be successful in getting their reports typed, but are they striving for excellence? In defining success, we can often equate self- aggrandizement and personal gain. However, this often promotes the exploitation and simple lack of concern for others. We measure performance in one dimension: short-term personal profit and gratification. By striving for excellence, on the other hand, we mean that we want to dothe best we can in all aspects· of the things we do. We are concerned with edification from everything around us, and we are engrossed in a continual struggle for betterment. Thus, in order for us to exist as a union of students in one community, we must strive for excellence. In doing this, our long-tenn goals are achieved, we have pride in our community, and we will find happiness in ourselves and others. All Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All Letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. LETTERS ''For. the Whiner'.' ------------------- To the Editor: This letter is in response to a letter entitled, \For the Dean\ written last week by Name Withheld For A Second Week In A Row. This individual's ac- cusations are wholly unfounded and represent an . immaturity and ignorance that is un- fortunately typical of many members of our campus. He-she suggests that the Skellar should continue to serve beer even though less than 25 percent of the students could drink there. The problems with this are clear and undeniable: 1) with only 25 percent of the students drinking, the Skellar could not remain profitable serving late into the night for a \handful of students\; 2) in- creased liability does more than just put the school at risk, it also costs the school money for higher insurance preniiums; 3) employing an added security officer is hardly a reasonable suggestion. Thi$ costs money which might be better spent protecting our community than allowing you to get wasted. And to spend that kind of money would make the Skellar even more of a money loser .. As for the ''illegal, un,. derground\ events you have attended, it is hardly unreasonable for the ad- ministration to expect that all- campus gatherings at which alcohol is served will lead to minors drinking which you may recall is \illegal.\ You may wish to .note also that non- alcoholic parties do not have size restrictions so that if you · are capable Of having a good time without beer (God forbid) yoq could still do so if the fraternities and sororities are willing to provide for such gatherings. One final note: the fact that you have attended five such \illegal\ gatherings should indicate to you that the administration is willing to be lenient and look the other way when organizations can responsibly contain their parties. So long as people like you don't go publicizing them and leaving the administration no choice, you may find that the system bends a little. It is unfortunate that you next go on to attack the ad- ministration for its apathy toward -the social life on cam- pus. I have never been one to stand up for the College's ad- ministration but when you look at what is being done by the Social Alternatives Committee, , providing for the use of the YMCA facilities, and other efforts by both students and administrators, who are more interested in accomplishing than complaining, it is·unfair to cry that the administration is neglecting its duties. Of course there is more that needs to be done. And it is possible that the activities they are offering are not the best solutions to your particular social problems. Then you should go to Mrs. Marra's office and help. Your ignorance shines through yet once more on the issue of Student Activities Fees Which you .suggest should be available for dances and other social events; These fees have always been distributed by the Student Forum {not the .ad- ministration) to numerous clubs and groups for their regular activities. These have absolutely nothing to do with social events except where those clubs choose to sponsor such events; most notably the Social Committee. Therefore, a dance. cannot necessarily be funded by the money collected through the fees. Surely you cannot be so naive as to expect that all social functions sbould be free. Is this a consolation prize the College should offer to us because of the increased drinking age? And when did you ever drink at the Skellar or Pub for free? In this capitalist society of ours, providing social events, like everything else costs money. , Now I'm not saying I'm happy with a dry campus--,- Lord knows I love to drink. And I'll also admit . that drinking does enhance a good time. But I think . that rather than complain abou~ something that is out of our control, we might be better off planning our Friday nights. And next time why don't you tell us who you are. I'm not scared to tell you who I am. Dave Marin '86 Mountebanks Wants Input ----------~------· -- To the Editor: Students are complaining that there is nothing to do on campus anymore. As a student- run organization the Moun- tebanks feel we have a responsibility to the campus to provide interesting cultural events. Although many Union College students . have traditionally been apathetic towards the arts, this may be a chance to change the role of the arts on campus. This term Mountebanks is planning an Improvisation Workshop with director Mark Epstein, and a trip to New York to see an off..:Broadway play tentatively scheduled for Saturday 1 Feb. 15 and Sunday, · Feb. 16 respectively. We are also planning to produce a musical for the spring te~. There will be a Mountebanks. meeting for all interested students this Thursday at 4:30 in the Nott Memorial. The Mountebanks welcome all suggestions for further campus events. The Mountebanks is student rw1 and your opinion; therefore your opinion and input is as important as anyone else's. We hope that other student-run organizations will follow us in trying to provide other interesting and engaging events for the college com- munity. Mountebanks Cabaret Was Rockin' --------------------- To the Editor: I want to thank all those in- volved in last Thursday's Cabaret for their support of Covenant House. A con- siderable amount of money was raised for their benefit and will be greatly appreciated. I especially want to thank Chris Siler, Dawn Chupay, Tom Christopher, Evan Pickus, Leslie Shamilzada, Virginia Wolf and the Mellowtones and their guests, Debbie Eisenberg, Jim Havard, John Ciovacco for their excellent performances. The many who attended saw· a show not soon to be forgotten. On Monday, Feb~uary 3, at- 7:00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge, Jonathan Hill, s speaker from Covenant House, Letters to the editor and commentaries do - not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis will speak on ''The Realities of Covenant House: Its Successes and Its Failures.\ Everyone is invited to attend. Sincerely, SusanGorga !!! - - - Tc en re' re1 dr: s~ ca SOl VOi dis det thE gr< ant SU< the suJ wh gid ent sor spe sipJ che Yet obs stu Ad1 Cou and alle bah For con: the p01i1 relit Tl wril - - Tot ~ post' the J van( only prev the v Fror appa stroJ - - To ·tl Re in die is d allo\1 this of o Sund noon and a.m. 11 I s

PageS CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 <!LJJttrorbirnsis FounJ,d al l lmon Collt![f~ /877' ------------ -------- Safety It's more than just a slippery subject, it's downright detrimental. We're speaking about the sidewalk situation here on campus. Okay, fine. We asked for it, living in the Northeast. But, after 11 feet, 7 inches of snowfall the-least we can ask for is that our sidewalks be shoveled. And even when the walkways are shoveled, they are covered with ice, making any campus traverse not only difficult but dangerous as well. Many students already have bruised knees and elbows, not to mention the humiliation suffered from a fall on the ice. It's pathetic to think that such a simple task as keeping the sidewalks clear and safe is so difficult to accomplish here. We're not moaning about things that we cannot change. This problem is a fundamental one, one that's easy to understand. It's a question of our safety and it's too bad we have to ask: what kind of place is this? It is the responsibility of the College to see that its students and its employees are living and working in a safe environment. Is this responsibility forgotten when we get outside? In this day of concern for better campus security, what about just letting us walk without the fear of falling at any instant? We're merely asking that our campus be a safe place to work, learn and live. It seems as though somewhere in the daily schedules of Physical Plant workers there ought to be some time dedicated to clearing walkways which cannot yet be seen and putting salt on those smothered with ice. What do these workers do all day if they cannot even ac- complish a necessary task such as this? We hate to bring up the money issue again. But, we're sure the budget has some room to provide salt, shovels and the people to use them. Will it take an injured student and some litigation ( oh no, not that!) to melt the ice? Excellence Some have said that Union students have a pre- Ih'ofessional attitude. Others have said that their studies get in the way of their learning. For example, during finals week at the end of last term, students signer! out keys and disks to the Rainbow computers for the entire week. Due to the limited number of computers, many students: were effectively cut off from their use because a few had decided that they had a divine .\ight to use them. Some would consider these student~ \cut throat.\ In addressi11g this situation, we must make the distinction bet\\ een success and excellence. Yes, the students who kept the computer keys for the entire week would be successful in getting their reports typed, but are they striving for excellence? In defining success, we can often equate self- aggrandizement and personal gain. However, this often promotes the exploitation and simple lack of concern for others. We measure performance in one dimension: short-term personal profit and gratification. By striving for excellence, on the other hand, we mean that we want to do the best we can in all aspects of the things we do. We are concerned with edification from everything around us, and we are engrossed in a continual struggle for betterment. Thus, in order for us to exist as a union of students in one community, we must strive for excellence. In doing this, our long-term goals are achieved, we have pride in our community, and we will find happiness in ourselves and others. All Letters to the Editor must be typed and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All Letters must be signed, but names will be withheld upon request. LETTERS ''For the Whiner'' ---------------------- To the Editor: This letter is in response to a letter entitled, \For the Dean\ written last week by Name Withheld Fol' A Second Week In A Row. This individual's ac- cusations are wholly unfounded and represent an immaturity and ignorance that is un- fortunately typical of many members of our campus. He-she suggests that the Skellar should contillue to serve beer even though less than 25 percent of the students could drillk there. The problems with this are clear and undeniable: 1) with only 25 percent of the students drinking, the Skellar could not remain profitable serving late into the night for a \handful of students\; 2) in- creased liability does more than just put the school at risk, it also costs the school money for higher insurance premiums; 3) employing an added security officer is hardly a reasonable suggestion. This costs money which might be better spent protecting our community than allowing you to get wasted. And to spend that kind of money would make the Skellar even more of a money loser. As for the \illegal un- derground\ events you have attended, it is hardly unreasonable for the ad- ministration to expect that all- campus gatherings at which alcohol is served will lead to minors drinking which you may recall is \illegal.\ You may wish to note also that non- alcoholic parties do not have size restrictions so that if you · are capable of having a good time with<mt beer (God forbid) yoli could still do so if the fraternities and sororities are willing to provide for such gatheri11gs. One final note: the fact that yoli have attended five such \illegal\ gatherings should indicate to you that the administration is willing to be lenient and leok the other way when organizations can responsibly contain their parties. So long as people like you den't go publicizing them and leaving the administration no choice, you may find that the system bends a little. It is unfortlillate that you next go on to attack the ad- ministration for its apathy toward the secial life on cam- pus. I have never been one to stand up for the College's ad- ministration but when you look at what is being done by the Social Alternatives Committee, providing for the use of the YMCA facilities, and other efforts by both students and administrators, who are more interested in accomplishing than complailling, it is unfair to cry that the administration is neglecting its duties. Of course there is more that needs to be done. And it is possible that the activities they are offering are not the best solutions to your particular social problems. Then you should go to Mrs. Marra's office and help. Your ignorance shines through yet once more on the issue of Student Activities Fees which you suggest should be available for dances and ether social events. These fees have always been distribated by the Student Forum (n()t the ad- ministration) to numerous clubs and groups for their regular activities. These have absolutely nothing to de with social events except where those clubs choose to sponsor such events, most notably the Social Committee. Therefore, a dance cannot necessarily be funded by the money collected through the fees. Surely you cannot be so naive as to expect that all social functions should be free. Is this a consolation prize the College should offer te us because of the increased drinking age? And when did you ever drink at the Skellar or Pub for free? In this capitalist society of ours, providing social events, like everything else costs money. Now I'm not saying I'm happy with a dry campus-Lord knows I love to drink. And I'll also admit that drinking does enhance a good time. But I think that rather than complain about something that is out of our control, we might be better off planning our Friday nights. And next time why don't you tell us who you are. I'm not scared to tell you wh() r am. Dave Marin '86 Mountebanks Wants Input ------------------- To the Editor: Students are complaining that there is nothing to do on campus anymore. As a student- run organization the Moun- tebanks feel we have a responsibility to the campus to provide interesting cultural events. Although many Union College students have traditionally been apathetic towards the arts, this may be a chance to change the role of the arts on campus. This term Mountebanks is planning an Improvisation Workshop with director Mark Epstein, and a trip to New York to see an off-Broadway play tentatively scheduled for Saturday, Feb. 15 and Sunday, · Feb. 16 respectively. We are also planning to produce a musical for the spring term. There will be a Mountebanks meeting for all interested students this Thursday at 4:30 in the Nott Memorial. The Mountebanks welcome all suggestions for furth.er campus events. The Mountebanks is student run and yoar opinion; therefore your opinion and input is as important as anyone else's. We hope that other student-run organizations will follow us in trying to provide other interesting and engaging events for the college com- munity. M()untebanks Cabaret Was Rockin' --------------------- To the Editor: I want to thank all those in- volved in last Thursday's Cabaret for their support of Covenant House. A con- siderable amount of money was raised for their benefit and will be greatly appreciated. I especially want to thank Chris Siler, Dawn Chupay, Tom Christopher, Evan Pickus, Leslie Shamilzada, Virginia Wolf and the Mellowtones and their guests, Debbie Eisenberg, Jim Havard, John Ciovacco for their excellent performances. The many who attended saw a show not soon to be forgotten. On Monday, February 3, at 7:00 p.m. in the Humanities Lounge, Jonathan Hill, s speaker from Covenant House, LeHers to the editor and commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis will speak on ''The Realities of Covenant House: Its Successes and Its F'ailures.\ Everyone is invited to attend. Sincerely, Sasan Gorga - - Tc en re1 re1 dr: se1 ca. SOl voi dis de1 thE gn an< sue the sui wh gid ent sor spe sipJ che Yet obs stu Ad1 Cou and aile bale For corn the poU relil Tl writ - - Tot 0\ post1 the 1 vane only prev the v ~.,ror appa stro1 - - To -tl Re in die is d allo~ this of o Sund noon and a.m. f 11 I s ·::::::::::::: ·············• ············· ·•······•···· .. __. ..... <

CONCORDJENSIS, January 30, 1986 Page9 Senior·s Deserve Respect To the Editor: What with the torrent of empty rhetoric which rhas recently crossed these pages regarding the raising of the drinking .age and the con- sequent deterioration of the campus social life, I am somewhat hesitant to add my voice to the growing chorus of disgruntled opinions. It is in- deed a sad state .of affairs when the collective reaction of a group of supposedly intellectual and creative college students to such a drastic infringement of their rights varies little from sullen, chip~on-the-shoulder whining on the one hand, to giddy, pep-rally pseudo- enthusiasm on the other. (I am sorry, Ms. Stark, but I refuse to spend my Saturday nights sipping milkshakes and playing checkers in an empty Skellar.) Yet, faced with tille formidable obstacles of an all-pervasive student apathy, an Administration and Trustee Council Which have proven time and again that their primary allegiance is to the almighty balance sheet, and a Student Forum President who feels compelled to do little but parrot the Deans' line on alcohol policy, there appears to be little relief in store. Thus, I have felt compelled to write, not because I anticipate any substantial improvement in the current situation, but because there is one particular aspect of the issue which has not heretofore received much at'- tention; namely the plight of the senior class. Here we have a group of roUI)g men and women who have been ex- pected, Without consultation, to shoulder the loss of convenient athletic facilities, the absence of a student center, and, in effect, the closing of b<lth on- campus drinking and gathering establishments; aU in addition to the usual burden of theses, graduate exams, and job in- terviews. 'l'he combination of th_ese factors, in conjunction with the fact that most seniors live off campus, has left much of this year's graduating class, li!te the rest o~ the student body, virtually clOistered in their apartments. Was no con- sideration given to the severe situation tbe senior class would be placed in by the simultaneous loss of their primary avenues for social and athletic relaxation? One's senior year of college is sup- posed to be the enjoyable culmination of one's youth; a time to get closer to old acquaintances while letting off a little steam, and pondering the future. Instead, we have been left in the lurch; @parently selected, with neither ex- planation nor apology, to sacr.ifice the outlets we have been groomed to expect for the last three years. I am afraid that a pat on the back and a few empty words of congratulations for perseverance from the President and . Deans at graduation time Will do little to alleviate the sense of bitterness and cynicism growing amongst the senior class. · If the tYPical pattern of reaction to student complaints remains consistent, I should hold out no hope for a response in either word or deed, fro~ tho~~ responsible for the predicament forced upon us. Yet, perhaps just this once, the Administration and Trustees will turn their sights away from the future, their all-consuming strive to maintain the Holy Trust Fund, and their insipid aspiration to join the ranks of the so-called \junior\ Ivy League long enough to pay heed to the legitimate grievances of their own graduating class. But, alas, we are already \money in the bank\ in their fancier's view of the world and can probably expect naught but the opportunity to plug along and \make the best of it\. What a shame we couldn't have known of this years ago when there was · still time to explore alternatives (i.e. transfer). Regretfully, Leonard A. Cohen '86 Poster Display Destroyed To the Editor: Over the weekend the movie · poster display box, located near the mailroom, was once again vandalized. The display box had only been repaired, from a previous jncident of vandalism, the week before at a cost of $30. From the amount of damage (it apparently took .a number of strong males to do this weekend's damage) it is ob- vious that this vandalism was ·not ~ven motivated by a desire for the \Amadeus\ poster contained in the display box, but merely by a desire to destroy. The film ' committee can no longer afford to continue repairing the display box. It is our understanding that WRUC has had a similar problem with its display box. We regret that the film committee will no longer be using the large movie posters to announce upcoming films. Please look for 8¥.!\ x 11\ flyers in the mailroom, dorms, and classrooms for future movie announcements. Regretfully, Julie Stone Stanley Ference Film Committee Chairmen Skellar Sta~s Open To .the Editor: References have been made indicating that our Rathskellar is closing at 9:30 p.m. Please allow me to correct or clarify this misimpression. Our hours of operation are as follows: Sunday through Thursday, 12 noon until 12 midnight. Friday and Saturday 12 noon until 2 a.m. On Sunday, January 26, 1986 our assistant manager was unable to report to work ( 5 p.m. to midnight) due to the winter storm conditions. Our student manager indicated to the manager that she wotild not care to remain (having worked since 10 a.m.) and no other assistant manager or student · manager was reached to replace her. The manager (who ''The undergraduate was out of town) was unable to arrive until approximate 9 p.m. when he reopened. We regret that we were unable to secure staff to remain open throughout Sunday. It was important that our sign did not indicate a reopening time. We regret any inconvenience this may have caused you. Jan Gray student- and the --From · faculty ratio is 13 : 1 median class size is 13. 11 ''Facts About Union'' 1985. When was the last time one of your classes had 13 people in it? Has this figure become a ioke? Do something about it. LETTERS Pornography Offends To the Editor: preventing rape, show fllms Once again the time has come which are theoretical rape? when the film committee Whether you admit to in- presents the pornographic film dulging in the repulsive films or to the Union College com- not, you may argue that the film munity. This term's specialty, committee has a right to show ''Debbie Does Dallas.'' They these films and students have a didn't need to be told that people right to go see them. As would be offended .by such a Professor Davis of the showing. Year after year, philosophy department Women's Network, religious · demonstrated in his lecture on organizations and special When Your Rights Offend Me, groups specifically against . there are times when rights do .pornography have objected and not necessarily take priority. protested the showing of these There are other things to demoralizing films at Union. consider esQecially. within a Last year the Women's small community. If it is clear Network submitted a list of that there are people that will films that were \erotica be truly offended by the containing substantive value showing of a film that is mere that we believed should replace entertainment to others, it is the vulgar pornographic film. only considerate to recognize The committee took on our those who have a true concern. suggestion for one term but, Professor Catherine Mackinnon when it did not yield the same makes an interesting analogy, profit as the porn, it was bye \What racist speech was to bye erotica, hello smut. • racism, pornography is to sex The reasons that we and other discrimination.\ We cannot groups and individuals are outlaw speech, but we can upset over such films are clear. certainly prevent such ignorant Pornography depicts women as viewpoints from being voiced at .sexual objects who experience Union. If only out of respect for pleasure in being raped or as blacks and others who should be whores by nature in scenarios of offended, Union would be degradation and torture. We obliged not to invite such a know that the business is ugly, speaker, as it should be obliged young women are used and not to show pornography. exploited so that their bosses A major concern that we have can make big bucks. The annual is that the Film Committee box-office take of x-rated films would ignore the valid ob- is $500 million, not even coun- jections that Union College ting the home video market. students have voiced in the past Some researchers have made for the sake of making a buck. direct correlations between the Our student activities money viewing of pornography and goes into funding the film incidents of rape. This may or committee and regardless of may not be true, but it is not how much this particular film necessary to believe this to nets, we object to supporting a know that pornography is of.. committee that does not respect fensive and has no place on our concerns. Given there are 'Union College campus. The obviously many students who messages conveyed in these enjoy and unfortunately support films are condoning rape and the pornographic film but for violence as an accepted norm or them it is (sick as it may be) at the very least, an acceptable entertainment. We find the male fantasy. Whether people entire concept, the \theory of go out and rape and pillage rape\ offensive and would hope after they see such a film, is not that our and other people's ·the issue. As Andrea Dworkin , objections be considered more writes, \Pornography is the seriouSly in the future. theory, and rape is the prac- Sincerely, tice.\ How can we at Union, Lynn Hano who are so concerned bout Women's Network ''There For Thee'' To the Editor: words of John Donne: The flag at Union College is \No man is an nand, intire of flown at half:.mast to declare to it selfe, every man is a peece of all that the College community the Continent, a part of the has lost one of its cherished maine; if a clod bee washed members. The flag has been away by the Sea, Europe is the flown at half-mast for 'over a !esse, as well as if a Promon- week at a time' because there torie were, as well as if a have been at least three deaths Mannor of thy friends or of thine in the last two weeks: Theresa owne were; any mans death O'Rourke, wife of Joseph dininishes me, because I am O'Rourke, Director of the involved in Mankinde; And Machine Lab, Professor . therefore never send to know Emeritus of Psychology, Clare for whom the bell tolls: It tolls Gaves, and Professor Emeritus for thee.\ of History, Frederick L. . .. So therefore, never ask for Bronner (after whom Bronner whom the flag is at half-mast; it House is named). is there for thee. The editorial in the January E.J. Craig 23 issue reminded me of the EE-CS Dept. Teachers Interested To the Editor: In the commentary \Cheated\ in last week's Concordiensis, it was stated that, \It seems as though our professors simply teach and that's it . . . And, with a few exceptions, there are no professors who are willing to take some time out.\ I found the opposite to be the case. The professors at Union, with a few exceptions, will willingly and enthusiastically discuss course material, the curriculliDl, or career goals with an interested student. I have found most professors very helpful in giving advice, as well as, aid. Unfortunately, we like to point out those few professors who maintain only limited and inconvienient office hours. There are professors who are unwilling to be of any assistance outside of class, but I have found them to be a minority. An illustration of the faculty's interest in the students is the new program in which faculty voluntarily spent th(~ evening in the dorms. I would l1ke to thank the ·.professors for this effort; the evening was interesting and enjoyable. Although there is some apathetic faculty at Union, the majority will make the time for any student who shows an in- terest in talking with them. Sincerely, Lisa Clark '88

CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 Page 9 Seniors Deserve Respect To the Editor: What with the torrent of empty rhetoric which has recently crossed these pages regarding t.be raising of the drinking age and the con- sequent deterioration of the campus social life, I am somewhat hesitant to add my voice to the growing chorus of disgruntled opinions. It is in- aeed a sad state of affairs when the collective reaction of a group of supposedly intellectual and creative college students to such a drastic infringement of their rights varies little from suUen, chip-on-the-shoulder whining on the one hand, to giddy, pep-rally pseudo- enthusiasm on the other. (I am sorry, Ms. Stark, but I refuse to spend my Saturday nights sipping milkshakes and playing checkers in an empty Skellar.) Yet, faced with the formidable obstacles of an all-pervasive student apathy, an Administration and Trustee Council which have proven time and again that their primary allegiance is to the almighty balance sheet, and a Student Forum President who feels compelled to do little but parrot t1le Deans' line on alcohol policy, there appears to be little relief in store. Thus, I have felt compelled to write, not because I anticipate any substantial improvement in the current situation, but because there is one particular aspect of the issue which has not heretofore received much at- tention; namely the pUght of the senior class. Here we have a group of roung men and women who have been ex- pected, without consultation, to sboulder the loss of convenient athletic faci1ities, the absence of a student center, and, in effect, the closing of both on- campus drinking and gathering establishments; all in addition to the usual burden of theses, graduate exams, and job in- terviews. The combination of these factors, in conjunction with the fact that most seniors live off campus, has left much of this year's graduating class, li~ethe rest o~the student body, virtually cloistered in their apartments. Was no con- sideration given to the severe situation the senior class would be placed in by the simultaneous loss of their primary avenues for social and athletic relaxation? One's senior year of college is sup- posed to be the enjoyable culmination of one's youth; a time to get closer to old acquaintances while letting off a little steam and pondering the future. Instead, we have been left in the lurch; apparently selected, with neither ex- planation nor apology, to sacrifice the outlets we have been groomed to expect for the last three years. I am afraid that a pat on the back and a few empty words of congratulations £or perseverance from the President and DeaRs at graduation time will do little to alleviate the sense of bitterness and cynicism growing amongst the senior class. If the typical pattern of reaction to student complaints remains consistent, I should hold out no hope for a response in either word or deed, fro~ those responsible for the predicament forced upon us. Yet, perhaps just this once the Administration and Tr~tees will turn their sights away from the future, their all-consmning strive to maintain the Holy Trust Fund, and their insipid aspiration to join the ranks of the so-called \junior\ Ivy League long enough to pay heed to the legitimate grievances of their own graduating class. But, alas, we are already \money in the bank\ in their fancier's view of the world and can probably expect naught but the opportunity to plug along and \make the best of it\. What a shame we couldn't have known of this years ago when there was still time to explore alternatives (i.e. transfer). Regretfully, LeonardA. Cohen '86 Poster Display Destroyed To the Editor: Over the weekend the movie poster display box, located near the mailroom, was once again vandalized. The display box had only been repaired, from a previous incident of vandalism, the week before at a cost of $30. F'rom the amount of damage (it apparently took a number of strong males to do this weekend's damage) it is ob- vious that this vandalism was not even motivated by a desire for the \Amadeus\ poster contained in the display box, but merely by a desire to destroy. The film committee can no longer afford to continue repairing the display box. It is our understanding that WRUC has had a similar problem with its display box. We regret that the film committee will no longer be using the large movie posters to announce upcoming \fihns. Please look for 8%\ x 11\ flyers in the mailroom, dorms, and classrooms for future movie announcements. Regretfully, Julie Stone Stanley Ference Film Committee Chairmen Skellar Stays Open To -the Editor: References have been made indicating that our Rathskellar is closing at 9:30 p.m. Please allow me to correct or clarify this misimpression. Our hours of operation are as follows: Sunday through Thursday, 12 noon until 12 midnight. Friday and Saturday 12 noon Until 2 a.m. On Sunday, January 26, 1986 our assistant manager was unable to report to work (5 p.m. to midnight) due to the winter storm conditions. Our student manager indicated to the manager that she would not care to remain (having worked since 10 a.m.) and no other assistant manager or student manager was reached to replace her. The manager (who undergraduate ''The faculty ratio 13:1 • IS was out of town) was unable to arrive until approximate 9 p.m. when he reopened. We regret that we were unable to secure staff to remain open throughout Sunday. It was important that our sign did not indicate a reopening time. We regret any inconvenience this may have caused you. Jan Gray student- and the --From median class size is 13. '' ''Facts About Union'' 1985. When was the last time one of your classes had 13 people in it? Has this figure become a ioke? Do something about it. LETTERS Pornography Offends To the Editor: Once again the time has come when the film committee presents the pornographic film to the Union College com- munity. This term's specialty, \Debbie Does Dallas.\ They didn't need to be told that people would be offended by such a showing. Year after year, Women's Network, religious organizations and special groups specifically against pornography have objected and protested the showing of these demoralizing films at Union. Last year the Wemen's Network submitted a list of films that were \erotica containing substantive value that we believed should replace the vulgar pornographic film. The committee took on our suggestion for one term but, when it did not yield the same profit as the porn, it was bye bye erotica, hello smut. • The reasons that we and other groups and individuals are upset over such films are clear. Pornography depicts women as sexual objects who experience pleasure in being raped or as whores by nature in scenarios of degradation and torture. We know that the business is ugly, young women are used and exploited so that their bosses can make big bucks. The annual box-office take of x-rated films is $500 million, not even coun- ting the home video market. Some researchers have made direct correlations between the viewing of pornography and incidents of rape. This may or may not be true, but it is not necessary to believe this to know that pornography is of- fensive and has no place on Union College campus. The messages conveyed in these films are condoning rape and violence as an accepted norm or at the very least, an acceptable male fantasy. Whether people go out and rape and pillage after they see such a film, is not the issue. As Andrea Dworkin writes, \Pornography is the theory, and rape is the prac- tice.\ How can we at Union, who are so concerned bout preventing rape, show films which are theoretical rape? Whether you admit to in- dulging in the repulsive films or not, you may argue that the film committee has a right to show these fHms and students have a right to go see them. As Professor Davis of the philosophy department demonstrated in his lecture on When Your Rights Offend Me, there are times when rights do net necessarily take priority. There are other th~ngs to consider esJ>ecially within a small commtinity. If it is clear that there are people that will be truly offended by the showing of a film that is mere entertainment to others, it is only considerate to recognize those who have a true concern. Professor Catherine Mackinnon makes an interesting analogy, \What racist speech was to racism, pornography is to sex discrimination.\ We cannot outlaw speech, but we can certainly prevent such ignorant viewpoints from being voiced at Union. If only out of respect for blacks and others who should be offended, Union would be obliged not to invite such a speaker, as it should be obliged not to show pornography. A major concern that we have is that the Film Committee would ignore the valid ob- jections that Union College students have voiced in the past for the sake of making a buck. Our student activities money goes into funding the film committee and regardless of how much this particular film nets, we object to supporting a committee that does not respect our concerns. Given there are obviously many students who enjoy and unfortunately support the pornographic film but for them it is (sick as it may be) entertainment. We find the entire concept, the \theory of rape\ offensive and would hope that our and other people's . objections be considered more seriously in the future. Sincerely, LynnHano Women's Network ''There For Thee'' To the Editor: The flag at Union College is flown at half-mast to declare to all that the College community has lost one of its cherished members. The flag has been flown at half-mast for 'over a week at a time' because there have been at least three deaths in the last two weeks: Theresa O'Rourke, wife of Joseph O'Rourke, Director of the Machine Lab, Professor Emeritus of Psychology, Clare Gaves, and Professor Emeritus of History, Frederick L. Bronner (after whom Bronner House is named). The editorial in the January 23 issue reminded me of the words of John Donne: \No man is an Iland, intire of it selfe, every man is a peece of the Continent, a part of the maine; if a clod bee washed away by the Sea, Europe is the !esse, as well as if a Promon- torie were, as well as if a Mann or ofthy friends or of thine owne were; any mans death dininishes me, because I am involved in Mankinde; And therefore never send to know · for whom the bell tolls: It tolls for thee.\ . .. So therefore, never ask for whom the flag is at half-mast; it is there for thee. E.J. Craig EE-CSDeot. Teachers Interested To the Editor: In the commentary \Cheated\ in last week's Concordiensis, it was stated that, \It seems as though our professors simply teach and that's it ... And, with a few exceptions, there are no professors who are wi:lling to take some time out.\ I found the opposite to be the case. The professors at Union, with a few exceptions, will willingly and enthusiastically discuss course material, the curriculum, or career goals with an interested student. I have found most professors very helpful in giving advice, as well as, aid. Unfortunately, we like to point out those few professors who maintain only limited and inconvienient office hours. There are professors who are unwilling to he of any assistance outside of class, but I have found them to be a minority. An illustration of the faculty's interest in the students is the new program in which faculty voluntarily spent th'' evening in the dorms. I would like to thank the professors for this effort; the evening was interesting and enjoyable. Although there is some apathetic faculty at Union, the majority will make the time for any student who shows an in- terest in talking with them. Sincerely, Lisa Clark '88

Page 10 · CONCORDIIJ.NSIS,.January 30, 19&5 LETTERS Apartheid Issue Addressed To the Editor, I am pleased to see a man with convictions different than those of the majority (or are they just a very vocal minority) stand up for his beliefs and be willing to be criticized for them. I am, of course, referring to Brian M. Kelly's \An Apology to South Africa.\ I am pleased that someone criticized these holier than thou liberals 'who seem to have a memory exerting backwards only as far as last week. Wasn't it only 25 years ago that America had a written legal code very similar to Apartheid? Was that code one which had existed for almost a century and which evolved out of a society that sanctioned ' slavery of blacks? Both of these facts are forgotten by these self- righteous crusaders. Both of these facts changed only by a bloody process of civil strife, which took hundred~ of thousands of lives (at least in the Civil War) and billions of dolaars in destroyed property. This is the same path that the anti-Apartheid zealots want to lead South Africa down. These same critics are very selective in when they criticize the injustice in Africa. Out of the 50 or more odd (and some literally are, i.e. Khaddafy in Libya) governments on that continent, only one, South Africa has even a resemblance of democracy as well as possessing an economy that produces enough material wealth for the vast majority of all of its citizens tQ qualify as an industrialized nation. No one has to raise funds for South Africa human relief. Only communists countries like Ethiopia fall into that category. In addition, South Africa is fighting Cuba, a communist government in Angola that is out to dominate Namibia, with a similarly repressive regime. Finally, South Africa has had a long history of supporting the Allies. Remember, they declared war on Germany in 1939, and not in 194:1 as our bastion of democracy did, and did so only after being attacked. In addition to ignoring these valid points, there is another and more ominous factor to be considered. That is that every revolution against autocracy since the French Revolution .in 1789, has led to a horrendously repressive regime which has tried to expand beyond its national borders. More recent examples include Russia (1917), China (1949), North Vietnam (1954), Cuba (1951), Iran (1978), and Nicaragua (1979). You might have noticed that almost every 20th century revolution has been a Com- munist one, and that all of these regimes are or have been our sworn enemies. Every riew regime created after such a revolution has been the epitome of evil, and certainly evidence of racial hatred may be found in all of these governments. It is not too late to stop South Africa from becoming a 1980's example of this deadly pattern. If more people were aware of these facts, then this tragic pattern would not be played out in Pretoria as it was in St. Petersburg, Peking, and Saigon. I look forward to reading more commentaries such as that of Mr. Kelly's. Name Withheld Upon Request Keep Walkways Clear Dear Editor, We are not writing about: ·th-e scandalously high student-faculty ratio. No, we're not even writing about the stifling library temperature. BUT, we draw the line at bodily harm. All of us have witnessed several near-brushes with death, and no we're not talking about the campus at- tackers (though this in itself is hair-raising enough). But, for God's sake, does 'shoveling' only occur on the editorial page? Is there nobody on campus qualified to keep the stairways and walkways clear of snow? ·the absur{i new drinking policies. -the senseless murder of our skellar bar. We want sor,p.e action. -the demise of our once aesthetically pleasing campus. .. Names Withheld Upon Request WINTERFEST WEEKEND FEB. 14-16 Winter Fest February 14, 1986 To obtain meal card credit- bring meal card with your own valid college I D to ticket booth in Old Chapel, 1st floor and receive free ticket in exchange for meal card punch. Meal card privileges are non-transferable. Tix on sale 1/30- 217. Those not on meal plan may purchase a $9.50 dinner ticket for $5.00 sub- sidized by the Social Committee. BE THERE. Dinner will be at 7:30p.m. in Hale House and Old Chapel .. Winter Fest- Valentine's Day Dinner Feb. 14th, 7:30 p.m., Friday Night of Winterfest '86. Mai.n Course Choice of N.Y. Strip Steak or Veal Picatta ... served to you at your table. WE MUST HAVE A COUNT BY FEB. 7th, so, bring: your I.D. and me.al card or $5.00 to Old Chapel ticket booth and get your reservation and tickets by Friday. THUMBS UP? Collars up, my friends, because you and I know, When Carnegie's done, we'll have a better place to go. That old, grungy Skellar, whence we all once went, A thing of the past, this new place an idea heaven sent. Plwoey on the castrated Skellar and all of its ills, This new place won't harvest those j01tlest of smells! This Rat will he sterile, finest plastic and metal; Petroleum by-products: ceiling, wall, stool, and table. The floor, so I'm told, promises to be different titan most, Our School will have more than thatfirnny building to boast. Dean's specifications propose materials most revealing, In an effort to recreate the Skel/ar's memorable Sticky-floor feeling. Carnegie's hangout will captivate both our hearts and our soles, With its carpets of Velcro and supplied slippers ojjinest Acrylic wools! So, collars up, my friends, because you and I know, When Carnegie's donr!, we 'II have a better place to go! . - ' . ~ ' ~·-- ' COMMENTARY Goetz a Hero ByPAULSCHOP .ped .. Why did these events happen? On January 16, a miscarriage· Why were these . hoods, with lJI justice was prevented tn their long criminal records, Manhattan. State Supreme believed over Mr. Goetz, an Court Justice Stephen Crane honest, respectable citizen? 'tJ.lsmissed the charges of at- Why were they allowed to rape tempted murder and assault (one has been charged with tilat a grand jury had indicted raping a woman after the Goetz Bernhard Goetz on last March. incident. Too bad for her sake Unfortunately, this decision that he was not the one may be overturned,. while Goetz ,paralyzed by Goetz) and pillage must still stand trial .for the after this incident? Why did it lESSer offenses of reckless take until November before two endangerment and assorted of · their testimonies were weapons charges. discovered to be perjurous? At this time, it is necessary to The obvious answer is that a r~view all of the vacts massive overhaul of the sltrrounding this case, .so that criminal justice system. is we may better understand it needed. Here a few possible a:i!d learn how to prevent this solutions to this problem which tl'J)e of tragedy from recurring. · wm prevent future Goetz The case begins in 1981, when tragedies from happening. .Goetzwas brutally assaulted by -Easier access to handguns three men. After receiving for qualified· citizens. Excons d11bious help from the NYPD should be severely restricted in md the New York criminal their ability to purchase such justice system, (one of his at- weapons, as well as other tackers sued him for inciting potential criminals. tne incident, which Goetz did - -Severe penalties for those nEt) he bought a gun for committing crimes with pr()tection. • firearms. Undoubtedly, many ~For three years this battered would be deterred, while .those victim of-misguided liberalism who are not will be incarcerated was forced to illegally possess a for long periods. weapon to be used strictly for · -The death penalty. Rein- self defense. On December 22, stituting it in New York is long 1984, his • worst fears were overdue. While it may not deter realized. That afternoon, four a psychopath, it most likely will yollDg thugs approached him, deter; a potential murderer who armed with lethal weapons, and would otherwise face only a jail attempted to extort five dollars term, as well as the criminal fi-om him. At this showdown, who uses a gun to commit a G<>etz was able to retaliate, crime and kills someone in the sb()tting all four and per- act. manently paralyzing one. · -Dismissal of all charges At this time, his real night- mare began. He did not have a merry Christmas that year, hiding from a system that would tlll'n him into a villain and the villains into heroes. When he did surface, he was for too brief a ]JBriod, hailed as a hero, but he <J.llickly became maligned as a demented racist out to eradicate the Negro race single- llandedly. (A11 of his attackers, ill. both cases were black.) E-ventually, the previously cited ciharges were levied against llim, and it was only this month tllat most of them were drop- against Goetz. He should be allowed to publish his story, to erase misconceptions . ~ot­ mulated by a liberal press. While. he craves anonymity, he must become a spokesman for these ideas, to prevent future tragedies such as his. · The police in our democratic. society cannot be omnipresent. Therefore, it is up to citizens to defend themselves against the vermin who slither through our society, when they are attacked by these parasites. That is how the West was won, and that)s how the East must be reclaimed. People who drink and drive are sick. They need sympathy and help. They also need to be deterred. Drivers convicted of operating a motor vehicle under the influence of alcohol should work without pay at hospitals for 40 hours to actually see the suffering the.y can cause. Anyone buying liquor .should show proper identification and sign name and address before taking alcohol from a store. All those selling liquor must carry insurance to pr.otect accident victims. iiii - Th Band Cone' Jan. direc be hE Sel' 15-m~ prelu Seba~ 1\me1 Gersl medl4 The to thE Un1 coedu und~ progr eng in Schen Union chartc State4 the o colleg lntr one < cultw the t Grad1 Stu die credil Prog1 begim p.tn. j Buildi touch litera langm Intr' with Societ: 1920-U Jazz: I which new Stude11 jazz c< the Je~ may course, certifi< The whichl wishinl Jazz, syn.Op!

CONCORDIENSIS. January 30, 1986 . . . Page 11 THE ARTS Morris Movement Sold Out Presents: The Return of Old Favorites. A special Saturday show. Act I Leslie Shamilzada with Evan Pickus Act II Brian laux & Ken Morr special M.C. Saturday Feb. 1st af 9:00 Admission- FREE tickets are limited so get yours early-they'll go quick. By KIMBERLY HANCOCK \WHAT?? No seats left for the Kuperberg and Morris Movement Theatre?'' I repeated, viewing the usher with incredulous disbelief as she informed me that the Nott Memorial had exceeded its seating capacity for this January 25th event. Evidently there -was a great interest from members. of the Union and Schenectady community in viewing this unique com- bination of mime, modern dance, music and lighting. The performance was described to me as a totally new and exciting form of art. Laurie Reingold revealed, as she left the Nott, that the style of the show ranged ·from comic clowning to serious dance skits (Everyday items such as plastic wrap were incorporated in the routines enhancing this unique form of art). This wide range of style within the show, Current Events ~ ~ . Student Band The Union College Concert Band will present its Winter Concert at 8 p.m. Thursday, Jan. 30. The concert, under the direction of Sean Lowery, will be held in Memorial Chapel. Selections to be played by the 15-member band will include a prelude and fugue by Johann Sebastian Bach, a medley by American composer George Gershwin, and a Civil War medley, along with other works. The concert is free and open to the public. Union, an independent, coeducational college with 2,000 undergraduates, offers programs in the liberal arts and engineering. Founded in Schenectady, N.Y., . fu 1795, Union was the first college chartered by the Regents of the State of New York and is among the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country. Union Excursions Art lovers and history buffs can explore hundreds of years of art and history tnrough fascinating trips arranged by the · Union College Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies to a variety of New York .State museums. The Art of the Medieval World is the subject of a trip t() The Cloisters museum in New York City on Feb. 25; the first of a series of four excursions each focusing on a particular time period or culture. Each trip is preceeded by a slide lecture orienting participants to the collections, and at each museum there will be a gallery talk and tour. The second trip in this series is to the villa-museum in Glens Falls on April 5, where par- ticipants will explore the ~ and priciples of Renaissance art through the exquisite Hyde Collection. on Aprll l8,a trip has been scheduled to The Metropolitan Museum in New York City, for the purpose of studying Islamic art as a reflection of Islamic medieval culture . Finally, students of Impressionist Painting will be intrigued by the May 3 trip to Williamstown, MA, where the origins and development of the Impressionist movement will emerge through an examination of the peerless collection at The Clark Art Institute. Anyone interested in taking these excursions, which are offered as part of Union's Lifelong Learning Program, may contact the Graduate and Continuing Studies office at (518) 37()-6288 or at 1 Union Ave., Schenectady, NY 12308 for more information. . ' 1i{l1mmmmmmtm~mtfll\mmm~mmm~mmm~mmmrmmmmm~mm~m~mmf~l1~~~ll1I~l~l~~~ll111~l~l~11lli1~~111llll~i11~1l~11~~~1~I~~~~~Ill1~11l~lll~l~l1mlmm~~~m~mll~ Jazz Courses Introduction to Jazz is only one of the many courses of cultural interest to be offered by the Union College Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. Part of Union's non- credit Lifelong Learning Program, the Jazz course begins Wednesday, Feb. 5 at 5 p.rn. in Room 210 of the Arts Building. Other coq.rses will touch on classical music, literature and foreign languages. . · Introduction to Jazz, along with Stepping into Swing Society: A Survey of Jazz-Blues 1920-1945 and lnlprovisation- A Jazz: Perspective, two courses which begin in April, is part of a new certificate· program. Students who complete eight jazz courses will be eligible for the Jazz Certificate. Students may also take individual courses without enrolling in the certificate program. The introductory course, which is required of all students wishing to earn a Certificate in Jazz, provides an historical synopsis of · jazz · from its beginnings to the present time. Stepping into Swing Society examines the classic era of recorded jazz ranging (rom country and urban blues to the swinging small bands of the 30's and 40's, while the· im- provisation course explores the techniques and aesthetics of improvisation in the Jazz tradition. For people who are more interested in classical music, a new course, Five Elements :Jn Six Evenings, which begins _on March 25, provides a basic introduction to the elemental structure of classical music. Utilizing lectures and active participation in the listening experience, the course develops an awareness of the science of music. Anyone interested in these courses may register anytime up to three days before the first class begins. For more in- formation, contact the Graduate and Continuing Studies office at (518) 370-6288 or at 1 Union Ave., Schenec- tadY, NY 12308. Saratoga Auditions Saratoga's HOME MADE THEATER announces auditions for its spring production of Tennessee Williams' Cat on a Hot Tin ·Roof, directed by Jonathan Foster. Roles for 11 actors are available: six men, five women; ages mid-20's through mid-60's. This 1955 Pulitzer Prize Winner is an emotional bombshell on the subjects of moral choice, truth and falsehood, the power of money, greed, and sexual confusion. Through a series of confrontations and family crises, Williams exposes the undersides of humanity with such-memorable characters as: 'Maggie-The-,Cat', 'Big Daddy', 'Big Mama', and 'Brick', and in so doing, offers OI)e of his most passionate dramas. Auditions will be held the week of February 9th and 16th. Further information may be obtained by calling Susan Miller, General Manager, (518) 587-6348. she c.onunented, proved that Kuperberg and Morris were talented, versatile artists. For some the performance served as a physical enactment of a definitive statement about man and his society. n ex- pressed concerns about pollution, noise, age, life and dreams. Steve Cole explained that the last scene entitled' 'In A Dream\ seemed to be the climax of the whole per- formance for him. It entailed an old inan sitting alone at a table smoking a pipe and gazing across the stage. In a vase on bistable was a lone rose. Across the stage danced a young, in- nocent girl who was putting leaves and masks on the tree. The old man, after watching for several minutes, finally ren- dered enough courage to begin a long and laborous trek across the stage with the intent of presenting the girl with the rose. During his journey he dropped the rose and it fell tragically to the ground. The old man tried vainly to maneuver his old bones to enable him to retrieve it. He was unsuccessful and slowly and sadly retwned to his table. \All he had left was his dreams,\ explained Steve. The Kuperberg and Morris Movement theater is run by RiChard Kuperberg and Ann Morris. Kuperberg has studied extensively the arts of mime, dance and clowning. His in- structors include Etienne Decroux who is best known as the teacher of famous mime, Marcel Marceau. Ann Morris also studied under Decroux and holds a MS in dance education. They operate out of the Per- forming Arts Loft in Albany where they offer classes in dance and mime. The Arts Department, Dance Club, Montebanks and Minerva Committee are responsible for bringing the Kuperberg and Morris Movement Theater to Union College. I r~'~_,,__:.___- ' n Candlelight Dinner at Hale House Wednesday, February 12, 1986 Hale House Dining Room will be closed during lunch for Founder's Day luncheon. We are sorry for the inconveni·ence caused to our patrons. Presents A Night Of Barbershop Act I C~baret is proud to present the Debut of The Garnet Minstrels Act II The Return of the Dutch Pipers to cabaret Guest M.C. Thursday January 30th at 10 p.m •• Tickets $1.50 on sale now at Old Chapel ticket booth. They're going Fast!! .....

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Tanuary 30, 1986 THE ARTS Cabaret Aids Runaways Student Forum President Chris Siler was one of the many per- formers at Cabaret on Thursday evelling, January 23. ( ) WRUC The WRUC TOP 8.97 is staring you right in the face ... If you start to take notice, you'll find this listing posted ·On the refrigerators of Schenectady's most distinguished residents. Every WRUC D.J. has an effect on this listing. This is the reason why they are propositioned by so many record company executives and crazy music fans. Position Artist Album Last Label Week 1 Simple Minds-Qnce Upon A Time A&M 5 2 Alarm-Strength IRS-4 3 Cult-Love Sire-7 4 Echo & the Bwmymen-\Dancing Horses\ Sire-2 5 Hoodoo Gurus- Mars Needs Guitars Bigtime-3 ~ Violent Fernmes-\Children of the Revolution\ Slash - 7 Big Audio Dynamite-This is... Columbia-1 8 Blow Monkeys-Forbidden Frllit RCA 8.97 Fine Young Cannibals-LP IRS - Program Notes Tune in to JAZZ weekdays from 1 to 4 p.m. except on Thur- sdays when WRUC airs Jab Reggae Show ... John Morgan will interview Olympic skier Kikki Cutter this Thursday at 7:30p.m. (tonight) ... A track from each WRUC Top 8.97 albwn is counted down eyery Wednesday night at 9 p.m. only on WRUC .. ---- 6-Bam Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUCMusic Director VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 37()·3257 lfRUC Winter Term Schedule Momlay Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Bruce Evan Terrill Cara Lawton Pickus Bonderoff Taback (!) \0 0 By JOAN GOTLJB and ILYSSE FEINGOLD , Last Thursday evening, January 23, Cabaret once again displayed Union College talent in the Old Chapel. Tile show was sponsored by Newm:an Club to benefit Covenant House, a .... :0 shelter for runaway teenagers .2 and young people, in New York ~ City. Admission was two dollars .c which went to the shelter. -B Since the show took place in -a_ the Old Chapel, there -was more space and seating and the acoustics were better than last week's performance in the skellar. The tum ottt was ex- cellent and everyone could see the performance. The M. C. was John· Ciovacco accompanied by his ;pet ferret, Hugho. His subtle sense of humor and ferret tricks kept the audience entertained in between acts. He seemed at ease on stage and his humorous stories of his first acting debut in third grade received some chuckles and smiles. The first act was with Chris Siler and Dawn ChuJJay on the keyboard. Chris's alto voice sang tunes by Carol King, Billy Joel, and Bette Midler, \The Rose.\ She projected well and seemed confident ami relaxed on stage. Her voice was strong and even as she sang the mellow songs. Dawn was ex- cellent on the keyboard. The- multi-talented Tom Christopher performed on the trumpet and on the keyboard of the second act of Cabaret. He warmed up with a melody by Chuck Magione which was followed by a well-done tune of the theme from \Hill Street Blues\ on th~ piano. NeKt, Tom played, ''The Sun Will Come Out Tomorrow\ on his trumpet which was stronger and more smooth than the first trumpet melody. In addition to his music routine, Tom and the M.C. John Ciovacco performed a comedy set with pseudo drums and trumpet. The last tune was the Beatles' \With a Little Help From My Friends\ played · enthusiastically on the trumpet. Tom's performance was very good and enjoyable. By the last song, his trumpet seEmed to have sung the words of the tune. After a fifteen minute in- termission, more ~illging and piano playing took place with Evan Pickus on the kel>oard and Leslie Shamilzadeh. Evan's tenor voice beautifully sang \Father and Sons'' from a show entitled \Workings\, \Memories\ from ''Cats\ arranged by Barry Manilow, \Just Once\ by Quincey Jones, and a tune by . Melissa Man- Friday Saturday Sunday UFa.St 11 BPEN OPE:N Ed Koval S-9·, 30 Marc Howard Mike Weiss ilik~tneWS/ ChriS Matt Baltay/ Tracey \Justin Waugh Mastrangelo Rowd Alemein Bagatelle OPE:N OPEN Evan Pickus OPEN Rich Dave Jay ~fl Siegel (}re& Fay 9130-11130 IT0 1 :m Mary De Medici McCarthy 10a:J0 OPEN Mary Soley Soley Bruce Kelley John Jon Peter Chris Dupuy/ Cllucl< 11 .JO-ia 00 MeGa vern Baxter Pari< Bal< Bloom Leventhal Ed R<>seilf e 1 d. John Garfunk~ Dava'l)eMedici Len Cohen Kaveh Apurva 11 A.P·.' Katja Bock John Jim Hassenf _,...,.,_ Dave Raker Sheibani Valtani/ Ia 00 .,-., OOpm McCann Dan Rosenfeld Dave tams Eric F~;~~~ldl Rob Goldman iiiLll e:~;: lp,.,..,. H• i ns1bn = John Morgan/ Winston Jill Suzanne Jefr-!::~ng Monte Haber Mi~~l::dley Bliss/\Jammirt Sati sky 4t00-6a00pm Kyle Siegel Roscoe Tony Pallone Greg Rinick Joe Voyticky Chris S aot t Elkind/ Jim Kurbiel 61 ]0 Dave Andy Jim 6a00-8a00pm Chihlas/ Paul Boyce- Ellis Bob Laparo McLaughlin ·Gulliver Ri <Ji< ·B lute . Nancy Drug-Related LGreenhaus lllock Show Evan Brooke . Steve Er-icili Bob & Ray Schwarti: with Benedict/ Mike Debalso/ Ma:r:.:olf & 8a00-10o00 Payne Chaiss n E-MAN *~~*~_i Steve Stewart/ Tony Br-ian · Valenti f:;at;!ren _ _s_ottihfr Ferg;usurr Ben IgnatiO Anton Conrad Maura Evans/ Marc 'il!.th !Oo00·!2.o00 \Uncle Fee ter Srdonovic Tatge Carta Rich Frl.edman Heavy Metal Fan Club\ Aguinaldo frou llell Steve Tony Davis Rich Ethes Bob Roger Rt>-wll:ll Hartman/ Parker Mangray/ Goldstein Anderson Blshqp l2o00-2t00 Grant 1 ' The Zoner 11 St!{llllblns Foreman 01'1'111 OPE! I-I OPEN OPEN Jim Bunch 0 t'E\ tJ 2t 00-4,.()0 OPEN '-· •C chester. Leslie sm~g the theme from \Ice Castles\ and both Evan and Leslie sang a. har- monious duet, \You don't Bring Me Flowers\ by Neil Diamond and Barbara Streisand. They both have wonderful vices and the songs they sang sounded strong, smooth, and clear. Their timing was very good in the duet and everyone enjoyed their beautiful music. · The evening's fourth act Virginia Woolfe and the Mellow Tunes was not only im- pressively arraQged on stage, with synthesizer, keyboard, electrical guitars, drums and saxophone utilizing every inch of the stage, but also clearly surpassed the audiences ex- pectations. The individual talent in this group was con- structively used to create a jazz band which truely had a sense of rhythm. These artists had solo's and therefore had the opportunity to display their individual abilities; however, they never strayed from the group or lost sight that their basic interest was collectivism. The group exhibited their versatility in music ranging from \Inner Reflections,\ an improvizational jazz piece, to \Loving You\ by Spiro Gyro. Virginia Woolfe and. the Mellow Tunes welcomed two guests Jeff Prissiaff, a trom-. bonist, and George Brooks, a saxophonist, who contributed to the five piece band which ultimately expanded to nine pieces. These additions, Jeff Prissiaff and George . Brooks were part of Friday's jazz improvizational theory held in the arts building. As one audience member responded, \it is quite an honor for these college students to be playing with these professionals.\ It seemed clear however, that the honor worked both ways. The two guests were pleasantly pleased with the bands ability. \Inner Reflec- tions\ which was interspersed with ~ilgo drum underpinning, also included a dynamic flute solo. Each instrument inspired the other. The amazing saxophone and flute trills, the guitarists quick finger movements, the drwnmers rolls and the subtle body added by thee keyboard demonstrated only some of the specialized technique cited in tonights exceptional per- formance. · Debbie Eisenberg, act five, who recognized the magnificance in the previous act stated that Virginia and the Mellow Tunes would be a hard act to follow. Debbie however, did a superb job of captivating the audience. Faces were awe- strick:en by the woman's talent of teeth .playing. Debbie, whose talent was learned at age ten, said that \this talent was a way of getting myself known.\ Like any musician, Debbie proceeded to tune her teeth. She then asked for silence which the audience respected as they .anxiously awaited her first piece. The theme to Debbie's act was the Olympics. She played eight excerpts from songs like \Mr. Rogers,\ the \Olympic theme song,\ the United States· and Canadian National Anthems, \Yankee Doodle Dandy,:' Beethoven's F.ifth Symphony~'' ''The Long Ranger,'' and the \Union College Alma Mater.\ She linked these .songs together in a weir thought and organized comic routine. Debbie utilized her unique talent of teeth playing and the audience was able to guess the titles to her songs. The baffled audience was left to wonder whether teeth playing could be an acquired talent or if Debbie was just granted with this different quality to her teeth? \The concluding act of cabaret was Jim Havard, who might have been last on the program but was definitely not least. The audience gravitated toward Jim's soothing and resonant voice, which recaptured the spirit of campfires. His guitar playing was energetic and in- spirational. Jim's well chosen program included Bread, Beatles, America, and Van Morison. At this performance Jim was . not restraining any talent He gave his \all\ which in the previous week's performance seemed slightly inhibited. Jim had a wonderful rapport with the audience. Recounting stories behind the music he selected to play, personalized his act. J.im and the audience were a unit which he had created by his spirited and enthusiastic playing. The audience ignored the late hour and was content to listen to Jim. One member of the audience commented \he reminds me of James Taylor.\ This compliment could not even do justice to his act this evening. Jim had his own style. He demonstrated fine guitar picking with an upbeat calypso ·strum and a beautifully sen- sitive voice. This cabaret which ter- minated at 12:55 had consisted of six unusually different acts. What bond these performers had together was their com- mitment. Their music came from the heart and transcended ·to the audience's heart. From Wilderness To Forest Preserve: Sixty Years of Adirondack Art 1835-1895 William· Verner, Adirondack Historian and Diredor of Schenectady Museum will spe~k: Thursday; January 30 at 8:00 p.m. at the Schenectady Museum, Nott Terrace Heights Admission: $2.00 - Ins the : namE wooc so cia Fron grea~ and peopl SOcia by I! provi Chi F not I deper accor tastef \Ch Sprin, to R \Onl~ Don \Boy~ all, tl Don Pie\. that • could knew· the w along. cry o Amer: Miss. chev__y was di drink: sing in die.\ 1 sin gin, Drean once e antici1 and lli Last buildii smells chicke follOW! comic Spiro: was q1 I The term's was he the PE ment.l Georg€ and. deliveJ broad f improv qqarte1 tromb( Brown Nelson audiem balancE cover t1 the tr Jerome and Jo1 plorato1 excursi ''The j Pressia waltz in Good were tl1 even in~ excelleli talents \\ is wt de

CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 Page 13 ByCARATABACK Inside the ding;y brick walls .of the Skellar, among carved .. in names and greek letters on wooden booths, stirred the social center of Union College. From people feasting upon grease-ridden chicken nuggets and cheeseburgers by day to people walking around and socializing in drunken revelries by . night the Skellar always provided a place to go for Chi Psi, D Phi or Phi Sig were not having any parties. The dependable jukebox by the door accomodated each individual's tastes-David Bowie stuttering \Ch ch, ch,. changes\ Bruce Springsteen rasping out \Born to Run'', Billy Joel belting ''Only the Good Die Young\ and Don Henley fondly recalling \Boys of Summer\; but above all, the ever popular favorite Don McLean's \American Pie\. The saying used to have it that a Union College student could not graduate until he knew the words; everyone knew the words aqd everyone sang along. The song lyrics however cry out about the loss of the American dream: \Bye bye Miss American pie, drove my chev_y to the levy but the levy was dry-And good ol' boys are drinkin' whiskey and rye, singin' this'll be the day that I die.\ Ironically for those people singing along the American Dream had barely yet begun; once educated most hoped and anticipated a good job, family and life ahead. Last Friday night in this same buiJ.<lingl~J,l~re, ipstea4 s>f beer. smells aoolinding, the aroma of chicken stuck like glue and· followed you out the door, a comic singer named Michael Spiro performed. His material was quite J:tumorous especially in the second half of the show; however most importantly what struck me was a sort of message that underlied what was actually goi!lg on on stage. On a basic level he was a man having fun with the music he was performing and with the audlence that was listening. He had us imagine that we were in a huge . stadium with eighty thousand screaming and ob- nold.ous fans for the ten hour long reunion tour of Led Zep- pelin, during the seventh en~ core. The audience's pulse rates begin to speed up dramatically as Michael Spiro begins playing the first chords of \Stairway to Heaven\ a favorite among even· non-Zeppelin fans. In anticipation we awaited the opening line; instead what came out was the theme to Gilligan's Island. However there was no let-down, merely a burst ofthe tense waiting, in the form of laughter. Spiro had the audience rolling. in the aisles with \Killing Me Softly With Kung Fu\ and listening intently to the story of the love between a cowboy and his horse in \The Lonesome Cowboy.\ During \Record Riffs\ he had the audience screaming out guesses as to what song he was playing, sort of a name that tune in the first few chords. As it turns out Professor Julius Barbanel was the overall winner as he was able to name most every song from The Rolling Stones to The Mommas and The Poppas. (An interesting note; Spiro and Prof. Barbanel went to college together.) Behind this joking around the~e .was a man that, was, truly. satisfied and enjoying what he was doing. In a beautiful song he com- posed and sang with his wife called \Spoons\ he sang of his love for his spouse, how they fit hnprov Series By DAVID W~SS~R The second concert in this term's \Improvisation Series\ was held on Friday the 24th in the Performing Arts Depart- ment. It featured Jeff Pressiaf, George ~rooks, . Wes Brown, and . David Nelson, who . delivered an energetic and broad sweeping presentation of improvisational jazz styles. The quarter: Pressiaf on piano and trombone, Brooks on sax, Brown on bass and piano and Nelson on drwns, treated the audience of about 150 to a balanced mix of original and cover tunes. These ranged from the traditional sounds of Jerome Kern, Thelonius Monk, and Joe Henderson, to the ex- ploratory melodic and rhytl:unic excursions of Pressiaf's piece, ''The ·Real McCoy,\ which Pressiaf described as \a jazz- waltz in the African Tradition.\ Good hwnor and good music were the \ear\ marks of the evening. A combination of excellent technical and creative talents held the audience's attention, and a small arsenal of quips and comic devices established the comfortable atmosphere that pervaded the evening. Just before Wes Brown's piece,. \Form was played, George Brooks jokingly apologized for the fact that the tune used \many of the same notes used in the last nwnber.\ One young member of the audience also contributed to the general mirth when he audibly remarked, \They sure do play loud.\ For a veteran rock concert goer, however, the volwne level was below average, while the quality level was definitely well above average. Friday's con- cert was a great success both in terms of attendance. and audience response and the quality performance. The next concert in the series takes place on February 7 at 7:30 in the Performing Arts Studio, and will feature music of Soutlt India. Based on the success of last Friday's concert, it also should be a rewarding ex- perience. \Work consists of whatever a body is obliged to do ... Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do.\ Mark Twain The Adv. of Tom Sawyer together like two spoons. The analogy is rather clever and neat when you think about it. In a song called \One Thousand Cranes\ remains in my memory. The song as he explained was about a twelve year old girl named Sedako who lost her life to the curse of Hiroshima: \This is our cry, this is our prayer Peace in the world. Our hope lies in the legacy of the cranes We never lose hope, we never fall.\ Michael Spiro was and does perform on many college campuses not for the money but because he is truly having fun. He called out for requests. I yelled out \American Pie\ thinking what was the Skellar without that song. He questioned; ''American Pie'', but not because he did not know the song. Looking back I realize that he was not singing about any sort of loss of the American Dream. To sing that song would have defeated all that he had performed; for his funny material berated no one or group in particular and his serious material had been about the hope for world peace. He did not bemoan the loss of the American Dream and how it would be practically impossible to recapture. Michael Spiro left us with a glimmer of liope.- ;THE ARTS One of Union's own returns home on Saturday for an evening of original acoustic music. Brian Laux and friend Ken Morr of Shadow Captains will be performing in Old Chapel at 9:00 p.m. The duet should be no strangers to Union folks as this is their 4th show here in 2 years. Check it out. -, • I This Week in The Arts January 30-0n Campus: Student Band Performance, Memorial Chapel, 8 p.m. Cabaret, The Garnet Minstrels and The Dutch Pipers, Old Chapel, 8:00p.m. Off Campus: As you like it, Proctor's, 8 p.m. January 31-Qff Campus: Puttin on The Ritz: 'Spin it\ by Dance planet. Verdict, at the Egg Through February 8. February 1-on Campus: Cabaret, Old Chapel at 9:00p.m. Off Campus: Me220-Soprano Carol Lynn Youtz and pianist Joann Rautenberg, SUNY A Perlorming Arts Center Recital at 8:00p.m. February 4-0ff Campus: On your Toes, Proctor's through February 6. Off Campus: Pianist Anne-Marie McDermott, SUNY Albany Performing ArtsCent~r, 8 p.m. ~fit~l~l~l~l~~~!jlj!~l~~~m~l~l~mmmmmmm11~mmmi~ImmrmJmmr~~r~~~ll~f~l~~ll1~fitmmrr~lmmmmtm~mmmmm~mmmmmtrilff~t~ • • f~~~IPiease come to a meeting on Monday, Feb. 3~~f{~ ~~)~~~~~~~)at 4:30 in the Nott. Or· i ust stop in at the tt~~~ @nfMountebanks genera·l meeting Today at 4: 30l~~;~t~~ ========:== • n th N ott ====:=:::== :=:=:=:=:=: 1 e · . ::::=:=:=:= i\:·:·:·:·:· :-:·:·:·:·: ::::::::::: ::::::::::: II We're Looking for l!l·ll :::::!::=:= Actors, Singers, ======:===: 11 Musicians & Crew,Members! ~~~!~!!li ...... - ···~·· ~~;J~;f:!mililil~lil~lil~lii~~ililil~!ili~ilililil1li1ililml~l1l~i~~1i~I1~ll~~jl1~1li~~~~lilllll)11llll~~;1;~])il;ili~~lii~l1i~lim111lli~lli1illtjll;t\l\l1l~l~llllWllllllllltmlmmrrtllil1l1l~~1l, ·-,:-:~.?..-:-.,::.,...,::~-:-\-:- -. -:,.:- ... \':\,.-::\~ \:\'. -----------_,,-, ........ , .- - •. -., -K •• -A,_,,;.r,r..,1,.: \'•• ,.,_, -· --~· '\ ....... .,.._. __ __. . .,.--,.. .. .,._._.., .. _,....._ __ .._ . .._,,._.. ___ _....., • ..,.,....,., -- --..._~ ot· ,._..,._,___ --~. -- ~-· .._ • ~- • ~ ~,. • • •

. Page 14 SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Information about these and (jther programs is on file in the CDC. Students may also set up an appointment to discuss in- ternshipsandsummer jobs with a CDC staff member. Historic Deerfield Summer Fellowships are intended to encourage young people to consider careers in museums, historic preservation and the study of American culture. Deadline: February 15. The Devereux Foundation offers preprofessional traineeships and externships as Research-Professional Aides in an expanding mental health treatment, professional training, and research program. Donne'lly Directory is sponsoring summer internships in sales and marketing for students completing their senior year. , Freeze Voter is seeking in- terns for winter and spring terms to work in Washington, D. C. and state affiliate offices. Freeze Voter is the political arm of the nuclear weapons freeze movement. The New York Hospital • Cornell Medical Center offers a pre-career volunteer program to students interested in the disciplines of a mental hospital. Schenectady County is of- fering student intern positions in the Engineering and Public Works Department Interns will assist staff engineers in ac- tivities such as field surveying, CONCORDIENSJS, January 30, 198~ inspections, financial analysis and drafting. The Hunger Action Network ofNew York State is offering an internship on hunger issues for both spring and summer. The position is in Albany. Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee has- in- ternships for wiNter and spring terms in the Political, Finance, Press and Research divisions. Jacob Kaplan Fellowships are available for the study of urban affairs and policy analysis. Minimum GPA 3.5. Deadline: MarG}1 1. Schiller International University offers students the chance to study in Europe for a semester or a summer. Programs are available in London. Paris, Heidelberg,. Madrid, Strasbourg ana Greece. The University of Pittsburgh offers the Mellon Summer Research Program in Psychiatry for undergraduates. Fellows participate in research and clinical work. Applicants must be jtmiors or seniors. Deadline: February 28. Hughes Aircraft offers fellowships for students in the study of Engineering, Computer Science, Applied Mathematics and Physics. Fellows will study at a nearby school and gain · summer and winter work ex- perience at Hughes. Marymount College in Tarrytown offers summer in- ternships for all majors. Placements can be made in museums, banks 1 law firms, and other sites. The American Ballet Theatre has development internships for the spring and-or summer. The - intern will be involved in board giving, major gifts, proposal research and writing, special -events and membership ser- vices. Announcing The Thomas F. Purner, Jr. Scholarship. Juniors who are planning to pursue the five-year combined degree program With IAM are eligible for $8,000 in schoiarship assistance through the Purner Scholarship-Fellowship. The award in senior year is .$3,000 (based on fii)ancial need) and will continue as a $5,000 fellowship in the 5th year. If you are thinking about staying the extra year to complete a Master's degree, please contact Ellen Frishberg in the Finan- cial Aid Office ( x 6123) and-or Prof. Lambrinos in Bailey Hall ( x6253) before the end of winter term, for further information. Toll-Free Service helps students find aid. College fresh- men can call a toll-free number for help in finding financial aid. The number, 1-800-AID-FIND, is part of a national scholarship matching service called Student Aid Finders, based in Laconia, New Hampshire. . This service has computer- access to over 4 billion dollars in student aid. \Practically all students can and do qualify for student aid regardless of academic achievement or financial need,\ said Paul Hemphill, president of Student Aid Finders. Hemphill's service guarantees to find any student a minimum of 5 (and as many as 25) student aid sources based on information the student provides on a data form. Then, the service searches through its computers and matches the information to the specific student aid for which the student qualifies. · · ' Within 3 to 4 weeks, the student receives a computer read-out of the matching sources-complete with names, addresses and eligibility requirements. \Plus adds Hemphill, \if we don't find a minimum ·of 5 sources, we refund the required fee of $39 and give the student whatever so.urces we do find absolutely free.\ Purchasing Management Association of ,Eastern New York announces scholarship a\Yards. To encourage college students interested in Business Administration and related fields to consider careers in the area of Purchasing, the PURCHASING MANAGEM· ENT ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN NEW. YORK will award two scholarships in the amount of $650.00 each for the 1986-1987 academic year. Additionally, each award in- cludes a one-year dues,f.ree membership in the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York, and the opportunity to attend, at no cost, all educational meetings and seminars sponsored by the Association. . To be eligible, the student must be enrolled on a full-time basis in a local college or university, at the level of junior or above during the academic year 1986·1987. Sons and da1,1ghters of Association n1embers are also encouraged to apply, regardless of the college or university attended. Interest or potential interest in a career in Purchasing as evidenced by the studeqt ap- plication, academic per- formance as indicated by an official college transcript, and faculty recommendations, as judged by the Scholarship Committee of the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New YorJt. Awards are to be presented at the Association's Annual Meeting on May 15, 1986. Awards e1re intended to be used for educational expenses during the 1986-1987 academic year. The student and the school will be notified of the award decisions on or about April 1, 1986. To apply for the award, the student should obtain an ap- pli_cation form from the financial aids office at his-her college or university, or con- tact: Frank E. Smith, C.P.M;., Blue Circle Atlantic Inc., P.O. Box 3, Ravena, New York 12143. Applications are due on or before March 15, 1986. Applications must include: A completed student ap- plication form, A completed faculty recommendation, properly signed and sent under separate cover, and an official transcript of grades from all colleges or universities attended. All parts of the application should be mailed to Mr. Frank E, Smith at the above address. SPEAKERS On Thursday, February 6, anthropologist Mary A. Druke will give a free lecture about a new winter-spring course called: \Forest Qiplomats: An Exploration of Iroquois Indian History and Culture.\ Catholic Leader to Lecture at Union College-The Most Reverend Howard J. Hubbard, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Albany, will be the Union College Minerva Bout speaker at 1l: 30 a.m. on ~---------------~~ fh8f ;;/1oC{ ,t/ do if. ROOWJrrrat--e Ct-11p/ lh/s piece /oo/cs /r'J::e a otcewery~/ What ave t .f't#JI~ fhaf wifh Jpo cases cE beev: . . that S' 1800 beJev>. I ycu up fo fhis hme? /' -fhe dviJ1/dYTB oBe what- it: i~ we had beSt' ~rr-' Whetes My' new r r - {tJI1ffW{er? . :J' .. 'S~_.:::::;;i:..6:;;, we, will Pol A ap~ the Gre Ital Ro11 on I was of A Feb In appt to Bell TJ: lect1 Scie: free Dt appE on T p.m. Cent A par Free Mt spon: part 1986; RPI: Th PreS I -J Desp 7, 9, -F at 7, Tic Chap ( NEWJ TIVIT is wel Con• Sunda who v~ Bene, 2000 B Joan • 12:45. Gue: Febrw regula Newm Jonath House LoungE There' Sr. Joa welcor studen1 please to conf Folk musici1 parto£1 7:30 p. may ni 6:30 p rehear~ Peac Group- 5th at ~ School Harry Depart continUt discussi Pastora Kinde interest~ a wee] Evange contact 2275 wb project. Tutor interest! puter M the Eva

Wednesday, Feb. 5. His topic will be \The Church and Public Policy.\ A Troy native,. Hubbard was appointed to pursue his theological studies at the Gregorian University in Rome,. Italy. Htl was ordained at Rome's Church of St. Ignatius on December 18, 1!Jlia. Hubbard was selected as the ninth Bishop of Albany by Pope Paul VI on February 1, 1977. In January, 1984, he was appointed by Pope John Paul II to the Secretariat for Non• Believers.- The bishop will deliver his lecture in Room 100 of the Social Sciences Building. The event is free and open to the public. Dumisani S. Kumalo will be appearing at the RPI campus on Thursday, February 20 at 8 p.m. in the Communications, Center Room 324 to speak on Apartheid and the Struggle for Freedom in South Africa. Mr. Kumalo's presentation is sponsored by BSA-UPAC as part .of Black Iiistory Month 1986; admission is free with an RPI ID and $1.00 for all others. ~ The Film Committee Presents: -Jan; 31, Feb. 1 &' 2, Desperately Seeking Susan, at 7, 9, and 11. · -Feb. 4, Absence of Malice, at7,9,andll · Tickets are available at Old Chapel for $1. CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB AC- TIVITIEs-Anyone interested is welcome to join us. Concerned For the Hungry- Sunday, February 2nd. Students who volunteered to sort food at Bellevue Reformed Church, 2000 Broadway ple;:~se meet Sr. Joan at Old Chapel Plaza at 12:45. Guest Speaker-Monday, February 3rd; in place of a regular club meeting the Newman Club will host Jonathan Hill from Covenant House at 7 p.m. in Humanities Lounge. All welcome to attend. There will be a buffet supper at Sr. Joan's Home at 5:.30 p.m. to welcome the speaker. Any student who wishes to attend please call Sr; Joan at 370-6087 to confirm your attendance. Folk Group-Ali singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy on Sunday may rrieet with Friar Paul at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Peace Pastoral Study Group- Wednesday, February 5th at 7:30 p.m. in St. John's School Library, Professor Harry :Murray, Sociology Department at Union, will continue to lead a study and discussion of the BiShops' Peace Pastoral. All welcome. Kindergarten Aides-Anyone interested in assisting one hour a week at St. John the Evangelist School please contact Tina Sciocchette 370- 2275 who is coordinating this prQject. · Tutors for Math-Anyone interested in assisting Com- puter M~th students at St. John the Evangelist School T, Th F please contact Liz Karazim 370- 65~1 who is coordinating 45- mmute volunteer sessions. Confirmation-Sunday, April 27th at 3 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist Church. Any_ Union student who has not been confirmed and who wishes to receive the sacrament please contact Sr. Joan who will arrange\ classes to suit .student schedules. CLASSJHEDS CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER Thurs., Jan. ao. Recruiting: Closed signups for weekS E & F 8-5:00 p.m. CDC. Fri., Jan. 31. Recruiting: Open signupsfor weeks E & F 8- '5:00 p.m. CDC. BABYSITTER SUBSTIT- UTE: Any afternoon during the week from 12:30 to 5:30 for P/z year old girl (she naps from 1-3 p.m.). Car not necessary. Call Dean Massa at x6061. Room for· rent rest of term and next term. Male or female. University ~lace. Call 346-6986 .. China Trip-Professor D. Thurston will lead a 15-day tour to China from July 8-15. Arranged by Passages, Inc. in San Francisco the tour will visit Hong Kong, Guangzhou, Guilin, Shanghai,, Xian and Beijing. The cost of the tour is .$3,195 from New York and .includes roundtrip airfare, hotels, meals while in China, and daily sightseeing excursions. Professor Thurston will arrange pre-departure lectures and orientation meetings for the tour group: If you are interested in joining the tour and would like more information, please contact Professor Thurston in Room SS2l3b (Tel: 370-6222) or at his home (372-7673). Professional typing-Busi- ness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. PART TIME HELP WAN- TED-to operate NCR main- frame and ariswer phone on weekends. Some experience is helpful, but not required. Contact Charles Kingsb11ry at 399.()611. ATTENTION: Behind the walls college student seeking correspondence and friendship from college .students to stay in tune with the college frame of mind. Black male, 165 lbs .. 6 ft. All letters will be answered. · Alonzo Funn 84A1278 P.O. Box 51 Comstock, N.Y.12821-0051 PERSONALS BW beware of those 3rd Floor Backgammon Marathons for Charity ... and don't forget your Backgammon Skirt! CONGRATULATIONS to the pledges of CHI OMICRON CHI! Luv AI ways, The sisters of Chi Omicron Chi. JP, We are very proud of you for composing the NEW GERMAN NATIONAL AN- THEM. We have just learned about the campus-wide publication to be used ex- clusively by all German 11 studenten. Signed, Concerned German 11 Studenten CONCORDIENSlS, JmJUary 30, 1986 Page 15 J:K, We hope you had fun on your E.+. Term Abroad! New Jersey will never be the same again! We missed you. Rhonda-Sorry but Claude couldn't make it. ·Happy Bir- thday!!! Love K.P. L.M. and N.J. M.H.- Your Mom needs her credit card. QUICK! to New Jersey! ! ! Happy Birthday! ~ Joanne, How many votes did you get? Dear Muffin, Thanx for the BRA( -clet). Some gratuitous sex will be ypurs. However, if you are not iil your room at the appointed hour, I'm going to DALLAS!!!!! Luv Always, Sex Queen CONGRATULATIONS!!!!! To the 50 NEW GAMMA PHI BETAS!! You're great!! in liKE, Brooke A BIG Thank You, to the Phi Sigma Kappas and the Phi Delta Thetas for a SUPER time Sat. Thanks-the Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta. Happy Birthday to you, Happy birthday to you, Happy Birthday dear Dana- Banana, Happy Birthday to you! Emthialyn loves you. - Lynn ... Please don't eat all the morsels .... Please don't eat them all ... 'Cause if you eat all'the mor- sels ... Your cookies will be bald. Fred, The cat is ''Living on the Knife Edge,\ but that's where she likes it. Thanx for being there to keep her sane. Love, Schmidttee Sinatra-Learn the facts of life, you . need a woman to make babies and Elvis has already got one. Nothing, Here's to a good thing. How long can we keep it that way before someone decides to RUNAWAY? ·Honestly. I can deal with it. Tell me though ·when you need to come up for air. What Anyone who wears a size a cannot be our Friend ... and you know who you are!! FROG, Thanks for last night. .. you were great. KinkyK. Sure, Debbie does Dallas ... but does she do Schenectady? ! Uhhh, Bob .. .I'll take Annoying .Parasites for 250, please. Dana Rosen, Have a great Birthday you booba head Losa!! Rudolph and Vinny, Anytime you need directions you know where to tum-left at t~e e~d of t~e Major Deegan! (Justhke I sard). If you ever get lost you know who to ask! x662F Dana, We sang emergency the best. Phil last and Bruce and Mac are history! Fels 28, I'm so sure, the day before his birthday. Happy B-day again! Mrs.xMac Happy Birthday BOOBAHEAD, O.K. even though · it is your birthday two things come to mind (1) the room smells and (2) it hasn't been vacuumed for three weeks-but I love you anyways! -Thia · Happy Birthday Dana face, Wish I could be here but ... I can't. Hey Lightman: Love you, Amy Yee, I'm happy! How about that game, Bears fans? Chubbles: Pats suck Dear J.M. Where were you? You were invited! Your neck must have gotten in your way! M.W. Yes, after four years at an institute of higher education, I have conclusive proof that men suck. . Is the ex-dictator pledging D. G.'? If not then the pictures MUST be lying! ! Rita-Where's my iguana? Love, Mom Chris-are you sure you want me to take advantage of you? How about a game of fooze instead? -M. DK: Wait! What is soft white and edible!? How many attempts can a high jwnper make? Who baptized Christ? We should stop wasting so many evenings ..... NAH! WB Hey, Brawley, Coleman, Paul McCarthy and New England: I guess the Bears were just too much. Rachel: Love A Loyal Bear Fan Had fun. Sorry about the snow storm. Another Yr. .GARNET MINSTRELLES- Let's \show them a good time\ tonight! To my fellow GARNET NUNSTRELLES- Break a leg tonight! D.R. Lofti: I need a lover that won't drive me crazy. I need a lover that won't drive me mad ... Guess it's better to say: Good-bye to you!!! You take the Teddy Bear, I'll take the beer; I can't wait to get out of here! GO DEBBIE! To last week's inquiry, \Does it tickle to be kissed by a guy with a moustache?\-Dr. Vin says, .\Try it, you'll like it!!\ WRUC TRIVIA IS COMING! February 16, 23 and March 2 Get your teams together now -~IIHIIIfllllllllllllllllUJIIIIIIIIfllll'-tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIiqiAIIQ ... IIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIUIIIIIIiiiPIII~ = = OR I. ENTATION = = COMMITTEE \'ll!:. Applications are now available in the Student_ _ Affairs Office in Whitaker House for the fourteen = It's still International I Hate = positions on the O.C., Union's planning group for = Men Week. Orientation '86. Love, 3rd floor Richmond = -=. Motey: You're the best Prezmo · - Date Due: February 10, 1986 - ever!!! Love, your firstborn = Interviews Begin: February 12, 1986 I Pomp, Admiral, DK, FWH: \Logic is a wreath of pretty flowers that smell bad.\ 12 straight hours!. What drunken insanity! But fun. I love you all. WB ~ ~ = Note: Ori~ntation Adviser (O.A.) Applications will£ -==-not be ava1lable until the beginning of March. J ~ ' E . C itllllllllltiiiUUUIIIIUIIIIIIIIUUihlllllliiiiiiiiiiiii!IIUIIIIIIIUIIIIItllllhUIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIJtuniltnu!lllhuiiiiUIJIIIIIII.

I- Page 16 UNION ·COLLEGE STUDENTS Show us your college 1 Ds between 2 pm - 5 pm and,·receive Sirloin Steak Dinner- $5.95 Spaghetti and Meatballs- $2.95 parties of 4 or more will rece.ive a FREE Pitcher of Coca-Cola Sunday Evening Mexican Night Featuring: Nachoes, leaded Nachoes, Triple loaded nachoes, Mexican salads, and Mexican skins- Half Price wi·fh your 1 Ds! MfiNHf\1'hfiN iE~~IH~.~~~ 605 Union Street 37~5930 PRESTO COIN LAUNDRY AND DRY CLEANING *STUDENT SPECIALS* 8-9:00 Mon.-Fri. 8-8:00 Sat.-Sun. 2009 Broadway 381-4243 Broadview Plaza- Schenectady LATE NIGHT BITES TO START SUNDAY Food Service's \Late Night Bites\ returns to Hale House this Sunday~ Feb. 2, with a new twist: an open \jam session\ for all campus musicians, plus desserts and coffee for all who come down to play, listen, or just hang out. Jazz musician, Jeff Presslaff, will be on hand to help things along, though the music will not b e limited to jazz, and it is hoped that all kinds of musicians will join in. The atmosphere will be warm and friendly with candle-lit tables and an open log fire. \Late Night Bites\ will go from 9:30 till 12:30 every Sunday evening through the end of term. Singers and instrumentalists are encouraged to \sit-in and of course, all are invited to come and enjoy the food, the sounds, and the at- mosphere. Hot Apple Pie Hot Apple Pie Ala Mode Carrot Cake CheeseCake Chocolate Creme Pie German Chocolate Cake Walnut Creme Cake Brownie Ala Mode Ice Cream Sundaes Strawberry Coffee .45 Tea .45 Hot Cocoa .55 I PIZZERIA I Reeses Pieces Health Bar Crunch Chocolate .75 1.15 1.25 1.50 1.75 1.30 1.15 1.75 1.00 1.25 Milk .45 Soda .45 Herb Tea .55 PHONES: 372-7270 370-3735 HOME STYLE PIZZA FEATURING ORCERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STREET Gr VAN ANTWERP RC. SCI-tENECTACV, N.Y. CONCORDIENSIS, January 30, 1986 Union College Public Speaking Competition Spring Break p '86in Ft. Lauderdale 1tlhc OCE~NFRONT HOLIDAY INN BEACH $259 00 * • Price• Include All Taxta • & S..V.ce Chargnl! . ccnlacc· ~Beechccmbor Toura, Inc. • t325 ~LLERSPOfll H(i'NY. . • WILLIAMSVIU£. NY 14:121 171~13:1:·312:1 Maureen De8iasio (Union, '85} will lead a discussion on Alternatives To Abortion at 7:30 p.m., Thursday, February 6 in 55115. Ms. DeBiasio is a member of Birthright of Schenectady, a volunteer group aiding needy ex· pectant mothers and needy women with small children, and t.he discussion is sponsored by the Union College Pro-Life Forum. The campus commuRity is invited to affend. Anyone Interested In Seeing The Musical \On Your Toes\ at Proctor's with the Arts Club contact Mary at 393-513 or Steve at 346-0435 Date: Thursday, February 6, 1986 Time: 7:00p.m. Place: Fox Lounge Prize money totalling $200 and award trophy. TO ENTER: contact Adam at 372-6332 Box 2'42 IEFSEMINAR ON WOME~ IN THE CURRJCULUM AND THE INSTITUTION Monday, February 3·, 12:30 P.M. Humanities Lounge (Bring your lunch) Discussion leader: Prof. Suzie Benack, Psychology . Title: Do Women Speak in a Different Voice? -· MascuHne and Feminine Modes of Thought and Morality, and Their I mplications.for Teaching. Readings: \I mages of Relationship;,,, Chapter 2 in Carol. Gilligan. In-a Different Voice. Parents Weekend May 9, 10, & 11 Camp Union • May 31 .FitzHugh Ludlow Day May23 Sigma Chi Clam Bake· May 17 T~ THI 'fYf THf i\A-k ALL C.Lo1

FR£.SHM.AN'\ TREAT YOUR FRIEND FREE AT HALE HOUSE Feb. 3- Feb. 7 5 p.m. ~o 7 p.m. only Buy any entree, sandwich, dessert or any thing from our menu get identical item FREE . CONCORDIENSJS, January 30, 1986 rJO .' /H~ Sl-io1TL~ J Bi£W uP q (;)£t..l.; IT £.. 00 kEP L.l kf. f/E SHOT HIM _I / *MICHAEL JERLING* will appear at the Skellar on Friday, ianuary 31 at 10 p.m~ A FREE DISH OF ICE CREAM · WITH A TICKET STUB FROM A UNION EVENT Page 17 ~======================~~-~================================~-=· Anyone lnter.ested in donating time to the Schenectady -Museu~ and Planetarium Please Call 382-7890 THIS WEEk ... ,. A BONUS CARTOON! THIS .D!Efl C.TS A 1YP Jc:,fiL 1\Jrflc.,k o ,J TH~ LJNJOrJ CftMfUS : .,-A kE. ot:F- c:£t.~ww .. ALL YOIJ') DON I 1)£ C.Loi14E-S.. G~os s ! ' . ft.RENT you SG~~t.D? \ - - -FRESHMEN- Your new Class Representative to the Student Forum: Joshua Waldman - There·will be a runoff election for the other - ava i I able position on: JANUARY 31, 198'6 . WEST COLLEGE LOBBY 8:30A.M.- 4:00P.M. between: Charles L. MeGa vern ... and Matt Baltay Voter·turnout: 252 (47.4%) -· HELP' WANTED!- Shifts are still open at Hale House/Old Chapel and West College. f.f interested, please contact student manager: Pete Ralbousky (West) or Bill Bricklemeyer (Old Chapel/Hale) I DOtJT ort )'l;f\H ? DH MY YOU 'VE. BE ft G&:£k j. l wt.t...:L' :t . HAVE sone.triJtJ 6 11( At ILl- f\1\ t\ kE: you -DO wtf A.-r 1 WAN!/ ~ c;f\WD •.. GoT It ? 1 6oL1J GR RV • It ( \

Page 18 CONCORD!BNSIS, Jan11ary 30, 1986 Lady Swimmers DiVe Ahead By LISA FREED Although the Union Swim Team has faced some pretty tough circumstances this year, not the least of which is the lack · of a pool, the women's team is doing extremely well. The team has grown in size, from three last year to ten members this year. And, with the daily commute to R.P.l. for practice, each member deserves ad- ditional credit. Even though they lost t:1eir first meet, against Utica, the swimmers turned in somt~ good times. Betsy Boutwell had a long meet, swimming toth the distance events, ant! placing second on each. Deb Dostie also took a second in the breast- stroke, and joined up with Laura Uhl, Marty Phipps, and Donna Gardiner to win the opening relay event. Donna is also the team di~·er, and took a second place m that event. Marty helped out with a strong second place in the 50 free. Lisa Freed swam well, with seconds in the 200 free and a first place in the 100 backstroke, her time qualifying her for the N.Y. State meet in February. Finally, Laurie Adelstein took a third in the 100 free, with Jean Monaco closely following, as she swam in her first meet. Also swim- ming in her first meet was Kathy Hawke, who turned in good times in the 100 back and the 50 free. Oefeat Hartwick The next meet was against Hartwick, where the Union women trounced the opponent 71-6. Donna Gardiner took first place in the diving event, as well as a second in the breaststroke. Deb Dostie won the breaststroke, as well as the . 50 free. Laurie and Jean each swam in the 50 and 100 free events, with Laurie placing second in the 50, and in the 100. Jean Monaco was the victor in the 100 freestyle. Betsy had an outstanding time in the 500 freestyle, lowering her personal best time by over 10 seconds and placing first. Marty Phipps won the 100 Individual Medley for the team, while Lisa Freed had firsts in the 200 free, the 50 fly, and the 100 back. Solid Effort in Norwich Finally, the team travelled all the way to Norwich, Vermont for another good swim. Marty turned in a second in the 100 fly, while Deb was second in the 200 free. Laurie Adelstein had her best time in the 50 and 100 free, placing third in both events. Laura Uhl had a strong second in the IM, while Donna Gar- diner added in points with a second in the diving and a third in. the back. Lisa took a elose second in the backstroke and a first place in the 1000 free. Ljsa also set a new Norwich women's pool record with her 1000 time. Finally, Betsy Boutwell placed first in the 500 free and teamed up with Laura Uhl, Marty Phipps, and Lisa for a first place finish in the final relay. The team faces another long trip to Plattsburgh on Saturday, but somehow, this team is getting used to bus rides! ! Union Beats R.P .I. • • • Dutchmen Win on Road 49-45 Continued from page 20 Neverthele.ss, Union battled back and took a four point advantage 55-51 on a bucket by Kurt Fox with 9:35left to play. From this point, Rochester closed the gap and the two teams traded hoops for a while. It looked as if the Dutchmen would be headed for their second OT game in two con- secutive nights. Rochester's · John Jones made two free throws with 4:01 remaining in regulation leaving the Dut- chmen faced with a three point deficit, 63-60. Two back to back baskets by Tom Beck gave. Union a 64-63lead with just 3:07 to play; and when Kurt Fox hit two free throws, Union held a 66-64lead with just 2:10 to play._ However, the Yellowjackets shut out the Dutchmen from here, scoring the last seven points ofthe game to gain a 71- 66 win. As has been the way recently, Kurt Fox paced Union with 14 points, Rob Parento, 12 points; Todd Lafayette, 11 points and Tom Beck, 10 points. All followed Fox in double figures for the Dutchmen. Rocnester was led by freshman John Jones with 24 points and sophomores Tyler Zachmen with 16 points and Trip Flavin with 13 points. (Flavin's 13 points came on 3-3 field goal shooting and 7-7 fout throw shooting.) Dutchmen notes ... Union's record went to 9-7 after the RPI game. Union beat crosstown rival RPI, 49-45 in a hard fought game. With his last three outings, Kurt Fox improved his team-leading scoring average to 16.2 ppg. Todd Lafayette is next With 12.3 ppg . . . The Dutchmen are. home again Saturday, February 1 at 8 p.m. to take on King's Point. The JV game is scheduled for a 6:00 start vs. Oneonta. 1985-86 Union College Basketba II Statistics Player 15 game tot?ls Kurt Fox 15 104 201 51.7 110 243 16.2 Todd Lafayette 15 78 169 46.1 111 185 12.3 Rob Parento 15 64 131 48.8 25 ·135 9.0 Neil Winawer 15 49 97 50.5 68 ·112 7.5 Tom Beck 15 46 103 44.7 44 97 6.5 Joe Romer 14 33 58 56.9 32 77 5.5 Doug Gregory 13 23 48 47.9 42 67 5.1 Ken Levine '15 29 60 48.3 32 72 4.8 Bruce Witherspoon 8 16 24 66.7 19 37 4.6 Steve DeBalso 10 11 27 40.7 11 26 2.6 Scott Gibbs 7 5 11 45.4 5 11 1.6 Tim Coleman 5 3 11 27.2 4 7 1.4 Tim Diemoz 11 5 13 38.5 10 13 1.2 Mike Miller* 4 1 6 16.7 6 4 1.0 Joe Hanley* 1 0 1 00.0 0 0 0.0 *No longer on the team ' UNION Total 15 467 9.60 48.6 197 1085 72.3 Opp. Tot. 15 400 848 47.2 150 998 66.5 Record: B-7 Home (6-2) Away (1·5.) Neutral (1-0) ~lilllllll!lllllllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllflllllfllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli~IIKIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIIillllllllllllllllllllllllllllfll' The <nnncorbtennis Sports Staff welcomes any Letters or Comments from our readers· about articles appearing on our pages. Selected letters wi II be published. llilllllflllltllllllfllllllltlllltltllllllillilfllllilllill!llllllllllilllilllilllllllllllllflllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfllllllliiiUJnrmmutmrllllfllllllllllfllllllllllllllllllltlltllllllllflltllllflllllllllliiiiiiiiiP Qrnncnrbiensfs SPORTS By ANDY HODGKIN This past Saturday the Union men's track team travelled to Plattsburg, ~ew York to compete at the Plattsburg University Cardinal Classic. Out of a field of thirteen teams the Dutchmen ·turned in a good performance placing third .behind the University of Ver- mont and St. Lawrence respectively. Union managed56 points while UVM and St. Lawrence accumulated 152 and 113 respectively. Outsfanding performances were turned ·m by many of the Union tracksters with Wayne l.,acy leading the way with twenty-two points by himself. Lacy easily won the pole vault with a leap of 13'6\ and just got edged in the long jump by 1 /4 of an inch with his leap of 21'1 1 12\. Rounding out his scoring, he placed fourth in the 55 meter hurdles. Todd Allen collected sixteen points with two second pJace finishes in the 300 meter event andthe55 meterdash. His times in each of tnese events was 37.7. and 6:4 seconds respectively. Chris O'Donnell and Bob Stenard combined for twelve points in the 1000 meter race with a second and a fourth with times of 2:39.9 and 2:42.6 respectively, Union collected two more points with two sixth place finishes in the 500 and 55 meter events. Brian McNamara ran a 1:14;6 in the 500 and Bill Craig ran a 6.9 in the 55. Union . picked up an extra four points ln the 4x800 relay as they placed fourth with a time of 8:43.4. This coming weekend, the men's indoor track team hosts the Capital District Meet here at the Memorial Field House. They look to put their talent to the test against the best from the schools from the Capital District. r Women Win lnvy I By LISA FOLEY The Women's Basketball team improved their record to 6-5 with their recent three-game winning streak .. · Last Tuesday night, the team handily defeated Williams. Kim Mangino paced the offensive attack with 12 points. Co-captain Patty Richards and Colleen Dundon each contributed 10 points. The Dutchwomen dominated the game both offensively and defensively, leading 2.6-18 by the half. Barb Weisenger, at the center position, supported the defense with six blocked shots and three turnovers. After the half, Williams at- tempted to narrow the Dut· chwomen's lead by using a 2-2-1 zone trap, but Union easily evaded the trap and improved their lead by outscoring Williams by eight points in the second half. Union defeated Williams, 53-39. At Union's Invitatiopal Women's Basketball tourny last weekend, the Dutchwomen confronted Green Mountain College . in the opening round. Elain Pick,. a guard for the team,\ summed up the match, \It was a hard fought game.\ With Union trailing by one point at halftime, the game remained fairly close until the last minutes of the game, when, . ... \S ~OOr POSITIVE THA1 AMESIICAN~ ALWAYS USE DEfE~S\VE WEAPON OFFEM$lVELY !! J r~ Union rallied past their op- ponents. Patty Richards hit ·a jumper to even the score in the last minute. Elain Pick drew two fOuls which put her in two one-and-one sitq.ations, and managed to sink three .out of a possible four points to clinch the game in the closing seconds that remained. Union edged their opponents 37-34. Co-captain Rebecca Clemente led the team to victory with 12 , points and again Patty Richards and Colleen Dundon provided strong offensive support, each adding 10 points. The Dutchwomen advanced to the finals to face Russel Sage who defeated Utica, 67-50, in the otheropening round game. Sage entered the game with a 3-10 record. Patty Richards and , Colleen Dundon were for the third time, key factors in the Union offense, scoring 17 and 14 respectively. Kim Mangino added 12 and .Michelle Van Pattan supported the team with eight points. Leading by 10 points at halftime, the Union team, as Rebecca Clem~nte. said, \came out ready to play aggressively, after their tough game against Green Moun- tain.\ Union's second~ half surge widened their lead . to crush Sage, 'ffi-49. The Dutchwomen's last home game is on Saturday against RPI at 4 p.m. at the fieldhouse. - - - ( To I Atl per Sk:; aw he· T .Wi1 Epl reli shu: hes St be 1 quit nev1 excl torJJ Red Foo· pion had· occa to cl Ne somE the : losin conti Field defer indiv 198 seasc consi prese the spect unust Sup nowhE h}pet The Super 10.- Tt dicatb Withtl 0 Patr: do min. offensi Afte: Waltex the fi Bears to sett three passes only ti scorin~ fourth counte1 one of Tee: E.lm RIT UNI Can Plat Osw Gen1 Pofs Harr Cort Buff Hob; Broc

I ~ CONCORDIENSIS, Janl#ary 30, 1986 Page 19 thlete of the Week By'DOUGLAS LLOYD Congratulations to goaHe Toby O'Brien, this week's Athlete of the Week. Toby's two performances in goal for the Skating Dutchmen, both within a week, were almost perfect as he only allowed one goal. This one goal was given up at . Williams where Union beat the Ephs 4-1; but none were .g 0 .c . 0. a - relinquished in Saturday's 4-0 (/) shutout over Buffalo, ill which he stopped 21 shots, bringing his Toby O'Brien career record to 4-1. These victories have helped lead the Icemen to wins in eight of their last nine Div. II games, putting Union in third place and giving Wayne McDougall, Qnion's No. One goalie, the necessary rest for the stretch drive and playoffs. The Political Science major is a sophomore bro~her of Psi Upsilon and hails from Sandwich, MA where he atte;nded Sandwich· High School and played for the South Shore Junior Braves. Shufflin' in the Streets By JIM SOLOMON Super Bowl Sunday, 1986, will be remembered in Chicago for quite sometime. The Bears had never won a Super Bowl title, excluding the record 73-0 vic- tory over the Washington Redskins in the 1940 National Football League Cham-. pionships. Chicago fans have had only \cellar\ teams and an occasional national contender to cheer. Nevertheless, Chicagoans are some of the most loyal fans in the nation. Despite relentless losing seasons, Bears' fans C<?ntinually flock to Soldiers' Field to observe a tenacious defense and some spectacular individual efforts. 1985-86, however; has been a season of Bear dominance and consistence. With the ever present tenacious 46 defense, the same few consistently s,pectacular players, an unusually strong Bear team play, and a Refrigerator, Mike Ditka has skippered the Bears to an impressive 15-1 season. With the Bears Super Bowl bound, I knew Chicago and her exuberant fans were going to go \beserk\ after their predicted victory. Having gone to high school in Chicago and been an avid fan and regular spectator in the -losing days, I consider myself a Bears' fan. However, having grown up in New England, I also consider myself a big Patriots' fan. Although believing the \Pats\ to be a solid football team, I, like all Bears' fans, knew the \Mon- sters of the Midway\ were destined to win. · Knowing that, if- not New Orleans, Chicago was the place to be on Super Sunday, I coaxed a friend into driving to the windy city with me to catch the hoopla\. All 28 hours of the journey were made worthwhile when the Messiah delivered the Vince Lombardi Trophy to Chicago. The city went wild! It was if Chicken Little had informed the ~ntire city that they had only one day to live. People from all walks of Chicago life were running around the streets hugging each other and professing the words of the moment, \way to go, Bears!\ At traffic lights, passengers momentarily abandoned their cars to \high five\ the man in the next lane. White men were \high-fiving\ black men, and Jews were \high-fiving\ Gentiles. Strangers were buying each ·other drinks and everyone and his mother were \shuffling\ in the streets. I have never seen so many happy Chicagoans since Phil Donahue took his show on the road to New York. So, the moral of my story is: If your team is ever in the \Big Game\ head home for the \heopla\; it's a party! ! ! ! ! ! ! I Bears Were Super By PETER AGRICOLA Super Bowl XX came nowhere close to the media h~e that preceded the game. The Bears won the game by a S{!per Bowl record margin~ 46- 10. The score was totally in- dicative of how the game was. With the exception of an early 3- 0 Patriot lead, the Bears totally dominated the Patriots both offensively and defensively.· After the Patriots recovered a Walter· PaYton fumble early in the first quarter inside the Bears twenty, they were forced to settle for a field goal after three incomplete Tony Eason passes. This was the first and only time the Patriots had a scoring opportunity until the fourth quarter. The Bears countered that field goal with one of their own on their next possession. After the Patriots were forced to punt on their next possession, the Bears completed one long pass and then scored a few plays later on A Jim McMahon scramble. The Bears continued the on- slaught with a 23-3 lead at halftime. The second half was much of the same. The only difference was New England's quar- terback for the second half was Steve Grogan. Grogan like Eason was continually pressured and sacked by the Bears' defensive line, led by MVP Richard Dent. Chicago's offense did their job scoring on their· first possession of the half. The Patriots did manage to score one late touchdown but it was too little, too late. Although the Patriots did get manhandled by the Bears, they Hockey Standings do deserve congratulations. Under Coach Raymond Berry, a team that has lileen much maligned over the years was able to hush the critics who said they could not get to the big game. No team except one bas been able to muster anything against the Bears especially late in the season. The Bears did to the Patriots what they had been doing to opponents all year, winning by a great defense. As for the Bears, what more can be said of them. Their defense has to rank as one of the greatest of all time, and their offense did more than an adequate job of scoring points. And, most importantly, Walter Payton got the one reward that has eluded him in his great career, a Super Bowl ring. E.C.A.C. Division II West Team w L T GF GA PCT. Overall E.lmira 15 1 0 97 30 .938 17-1-0 RIT 6 2 0 145 52 .889 - 20-4-0 UNION. 9 3 0 56 25 .750 9-7-0 Canisius 11 4 1 90 74 .719 15-4-1 Plattsburgh 10 5 1 123 64 .656 17-9-1 Oswego 11 7 0 84 66 .611 11-7-0 Geneseo 7 8 1 68 74 .469 11-11-1 Pofsdam 8 10 1 97 91 .447 8-ll-1 Hamilton 3 5 1 39 35 .389 5-7-1 Cortland 3 9 0 35 83 .250 5-11-0 Buffalo ·~ 3 11 0 49 80 .214 4-16·0 Hobart 3 13 0 64 122 .187 3-14·0 Brockport 0 13 0 30 120 .000 0·18-0 , Qtnncnrbteusis SPORTS By CHARLIE SLOTNIK As everyone in America and the free world knows, the football season officially ended Sunday when the Chicago Bears mauled the New England Patriots 46-10. The Major League baseball season does not start for another 70 days, and spring training is still a good five weeks away. The glut in the year of sports is upon us. Starting today, January 30, the day Super Bowl talk officially ends, until \opening day\ there is very little in the world of sports to look forward to, except perhaps the Sports lllustrated swimsuit issue. The array of college and professional basketball on television is boring and of little importance, and if one feels a midseason hockey game bet- ween the New Jersey Devils and the Calgary Flames is scin- tillating, then please read no further. However, here at Union College, we are fortunate enough to have an exciting basketball and hockey team. Bill Scanlon's Hoopsters are currently 9-7, and have won six out of their last nine games, including a surprising upset victory over nationally ranked Hamilton. The basketball team is led by Todd Lafayette, Tom Beck and Kurt Fox. The te;;un has won Charlie Slotnik Looking at Sports only one game away from the Field House, and must improve on their road record if they are to make the playoffs. Of their final eight games, five are away from Scheneetady . Charlie Morrison's skating Dutchmen have won six of their last seven games and have a record of nine wins and eight losses which is a vast im- provement on their 3-6 record of just three weeks ago. ~Captains Tom Hodgins and Curt Cole have made this an exciting team to watch. Both players are strong leaders as well as exceptional players. This season Cole and Hodgins entered the \Century Club\ as they scored their lOOth point in a Garnet uniform. Currently, the skating Dut- chmen are in third place in the E.C.A.C. west, and a strong finish could give Union first place in their extremely competitive league. The key to the Dutclunen's current success has been their attitude, cites Charlie Morrison. \They've been able to take one game at a time and not look ahead.\ There's been enough talk of Union being boring, so leavE! your dorm rooms and apart- ments, come up to the Field House and Achilles Rink to root for the Dutclunen. Each team· only has three home games, and they could use some support in the stretch run for the playoffs. Maybe you will find it exciting. 1985-86 Union College Hockey Stats OVERALL Player 16 game totals GP GLS Ats Pts Curt Cole 16 10 8 18 Duane Joyce 16 11 6 17 Tom Hodgins 16 6 10 16 Todd Flanigan 15 3 11 14 GaryTemush 16 7 7 14 John MacKenzie 16 3 11 14 Darren Stephens 15 2 9 11 Nelson Said 16 7 4 11 ScottCyr 13 7 3 10 Chris Huntington 13 4 5 9 Dave Appleby 16 3 6 9 Tom Brandell 16 1 4 5 Dave Weiss 15 0 5 5 Scott Manley 14 0 3 3 Mike Raymond 5 1 1 2 Keith Robertson 4 1 1 2 Mike Forhan 15 2 0 2 Bill Snow 9 0 1 1 Gavin Morton 9 1 0 1 Rich Preziotti 13 0 1 1 Rick Rockett 1 0 0 0 Scott Richardson 14 0 0 0 Jim MacLaughlin 3 0 0 0 Goalies GMS sv GA GAA Toby O'Brien 2 41 1 0.50 Wayne McDougall 14 345 43 3.07 Union's leading scorer, Curt Cole chases rebound versus Buffalo

CONCORDIENSTS, January 30, i91J6 Q) \0 0 ::> .... (/) >- .0 0 .... 0 ..c a. ...... tO a, >- .0 ·.E 0 ..c a. Hockey Action Dutchmen mix it up. See story below. Women's Basketball Win Unioil Invy ., See ~fory, pagel8 Thursday, January 30, 1986 Hoopsters Win In Overtillle ByMARKVANBUREN The Union College men's basketball team played three tough road games this past week endh!g up with one victory and two losses. Last Wenesday, they traveled to Plattsburgh to take on a tough Cardinal squad, only to end up on the short end of a 71-63 game. The Dutchmen led by 5 points, 30..25, with 4:42 left in the first period when Rob Parento canned a 15 foot jumper. However, when Rudy Outlaw caught all net in a last second desperation too with no time on the clock, Union entered the locker room holding a slim 34-33 advantage. Plattsburgh scored the first four points of the second half on baskets by Guy Garrow and Mark Mcintyre to grab a 37-34 lead. From here, the Dutchmen could get no closer than a basket as the Cardinals held on for a hard- fought victory. Union got within 3 points 61-58, as Neil Winawer hit an 8 foot jumper in the lane with 2:54 left in the game. When Kurt Fox converted two free throws 25 seconds later Union was still trailing by 3, 63-60. Plattsburgh scored the game's next four points to take a 67-60 advantage with 1:11 remaining, to virtually ice the game. Kurt Fox placed Union with 20 points, followed by Rob Parento and Neil Winawer who added 15 and 12 points respectively. Hoopsters Win 1 of 2 The weekend brought on two more equally difficult contests. Friday night the Dutchmen battled their way to a 78-76 overtime victory at Hobart. Hobart, a vastly improved team from last year, (Union won 92- 62), led most of the game. · Union's only leads of the first half were at 2-0, 8-6, and 10-8. Todd LaFayette banked home a 6-foot jumper, giving Union a 10-8 lead less than five minutes into the game; Hobart ran off in an 18-9 spurt, giving them a seven point advantage, 26-19 with seven minutes left before halftime. Union pulled to with- in one point, 36-35 with 11 seconds remaining in the first period, when Joe Romer scored from the baseline on an assist from Steve DeBalso, Hobart's Derek Dominici. was fouled with 0.01 left and he hit two free throws to give the Statesmen a :38-35 margin at intermission. Hobart held this advantage th1·oughout a majority of the second half. It was not until Joe Romer hailed an 18-footer from the right corner at 2: 28 that the Dut- chmen saw their first lead since early in the game, 65-64. Derek Dominici hit one of two free throws for Hobart with 2:15 left to play in regulation to deadlock the score at G5. Neither team scored in the remainder of the second half, so they entered OT. Union scored just seven seconds into the overtime period, as Tom Beck hit a jumper from 12 feet out to put the Dutchmen ahead, 67-65. The Statesmen scored tht! next four points to move ahead 69-67 with 4:08left in OT. With 3:181eft to play, Todd Lafa~ette put the Dutchmen ahead for good, 71- Skater's Win Streak Ends at 5 By JOHN BRUCE The Union College Skating Dutchmen recently increased their record to 9-8 overall, and 9- 4 in the ECAC Division II by defeating Middlebury, 6-1, and The University of Buffalo 4..0, before losing to Plattsburgh 5-3 Tuesday night. The Dutchn1en completely dominated the U of Buffalo Bulls, even though the Bulls outshot them 8-7 in the first period; Union rebounded and took 40 shots in the final two periods, including 27 in the second stanza alone. In com- parison, the Bulls only managed 13 shots .in the same time period, and sophomore Toby O'Brien picked up his second win of the year, and his first shutout as he stopped all 21 shots that he faced. The Dutchmen goals were scored by Mike Forhan, Nelson Said, Scott Cyr and Dave Appleby, with assists going to freshmen Scott Manley and Darren Stephens, sophomore Gary Te:mush and seniors Dave Weiss and Tom Hodgins. Hodgins assi&'t on Appleby's goal was his 1ooth career point, only the eight time in Union College history that someone has reached that plateau. After the second period there was no doubt which team would be victorious, as the Dutchmen completely outclassed their opposition. In last Wednesday night's game against Middlebury, The Dutchmen also won easily 6-1. The Union attack was led by senior co-captain Curt Cole, who tallied twice, juniors Duane Joyce and Chris Htliltington, and sophomores Gary Temush and Scott Cyr. Junior defen- seman Dave Appleby chipped in with two assists, as did Duane Joyce, and senior Todd Flanigan; John MacKenzie and co-captain Tom Hodgins added assists. After Middlebury jumped out to a 1-o lead at 4:12 of the first period, Ternush responded with a breakaway goal at 8:46 of the same stanza. Frotn that point on, the Dutchmen scored the next five goals, as they took 39 shots. Senior Wayne McDo.ugaU stopped 19 shots as he recorded his seventh victory. Tuesday night the skating Dutchmen traveled to Platt- sburgh to play the Cardinals. John Mackenzie's unassisted goal gave the · Dutclunen the early lead, but Plattsburgh tied the score and we11t out to a 3-1 lead before Todd Flanigan scored his 4th goal of the season to narrow the Plattsburgh lead to 3-2. But the Cardinals ex- tended their lead to 5~2 before Chris Huntington put in the Dutchmen's final goal which was assisted by Curt Cole and Dave Appleby. The Dutchmen's next game is Saturday nigbt against Merrimack .in North Andover, Mass. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS . . .. -··- ' .. , ., 69, when he scored on a driving lay-up. Union extended their advantage to 76-70 as Neil Winawer made both ends of a one-and~one with just 0:50 remaining·. From here Union held on for a 78-76 victory. Once again the Dutchmen were led by Kurt Fox who scored 24 points and grabbed 10 rebounds. Todd Lafayette added 14 points and six rebounds, Doug · Gregory had 10 points and six rebounds~ and Tom Beck had 8 points and 9 assists. Hobart was led by Derek Dominici who had 26 points and 16 rebounds. Lose To Rochester The next night Union traveled to Rochester to take on the U of R, who bested the Dutchmen in Rochester last year, 99-98 in 5 OT's. Throughout the first period of play, the two teams traded hoops with no one gaining any decisive ad- vantage. Just 5:01 left before intermission, Neil Winawer's basket gave Union a 25-20 lead. Rochester then proceeded to outscore the Dutchmen 8-2 to take over the lead 28-27 on Trip Flavin's hoop with 2:13 remaining in the half. The teams traded baskets for the rest of the period and' when Terry Fitzgerald scored from 15 feet away with 30 seconds left, the Yellowjackets found themselves entering the locker room ahead 32-31. Rochester opened the second half scormg two quick baskets to open up a 36-31 lead. Continued on page 18 GARNET SCOREBOARD ICE HOCKEY (9·7) UNION6 UNION4 UNION 78 Rochester 71 UNION 49 MEN'S BASKETBALL (8-7) WOMEN'S BASKETBALL (6-5) Middlebury 1 u. of Buffalo 0 Hobart 76 (OTJ UNION 63 RP145 UNION 39 UN ION 73 Green Mountain 35 Russell Sage 49 MEN'S TRACK 3rd Place at Plattsburgh St. lnvy WOMEN'S TRACK 2nd Place at Plattsburgh St. lnvy MEN'S SWIMMING (1-3) Utica 66 UN ION 62 Norwich 62. WOMEN'S SWIMMING (1-2) Utica 70 UNION7i Norwich 54 DUTCHMEN SPORTSWEEK January 30- February 5 THURSDAY 1/30 Women's Hoops (It Skidmore SATURDAY 2/1 Varsity Hockey at Merrimack Men's Varsity Hoops vs. Kings Point JV Hoops vs. Oneonta Women's Hoops vs. R PI Women's Swimming at Plattsburgh St. Men's Swimming at Plattsburgh St. MONDAY2/3 • JV Hoops vs. Skidmore TUESDAY 2/4 Varsity Hockey vs. Williams JV Hockey vs. New Prep WEDNESDAY 2/5 Men's Varsity Hoops a.t Albany St. JV Hockey vs. Kent JV Hoops at Albany St. Women's Swimming at R PI Men's Swimming 9t RPI UNION 33 Hartwick40 UNION35 UNION 30 Hartwick 6 UNION43 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. 8:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 4:00p.m. 1 :OOp.m. 1:00 p.m. 7:00p.m . 7:30p.m. 3:15p.m. 8:00p.m. 3:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 4:00p.m. ,4:00p.m. - CX' ·- - Direc about CalJ Sc Last Challe elude byUnl Cavoli Profel (Chem With perimE explosi a.m. l questi< thepr(] Profes on NA Cavoli. The launch back a: and h procee• known ByJ( ACCOI police, homele: City. Onl\ll 3rd, represe House i to inter1 coordin College regula! about 1 cesses • Co:vez in New Bruce I 1960's, 1

