M 9 . 5 CXV,No.16 ·Reuovation of College Center Progre~es By LAURENCE MANNINO ' .:. -·- .... Extensive cam.pus con- struction coupled with new campus PQlicy due to recently enacted legislation concerning the drinl\ing ag~ has had a major impact on the social life of Union College students. These factors have, in effect, decentralized student activities here on campus. In the hopes of remedying thi;; problem, Carnegie Hall is currently being renovated and expanded thus creating a college center that will fill the void created by these various needs. · Andy George talk~ about trustee and administration attitudes. Overall Plan Outlined The over~U plan for this is as follows: The College Cent¢r will Student Trustee Answers Academic Questions combine and consolidate in a By DAVID MARIN strttcture of approximately Andrew George has served as 60,000 sq. feet a variety of a student representative in one sgpport s.ervices, social sp~ces, capacity or another for hfs reservable spaces,: and ad- entil;e. fo~J: yell,rs at Un~~Q ministrative offices pre~~ntly CoU~g~~ .A~,. ·~L fr~shman and scattered . around the, union SQPh<>:more fie was . ,an elected · College grounds. For con.. re})];esentative to the Student venience, these various func-· Forum; serving part of that tioris can be classifi-ed as time as Chairman of the follows: Finance Committee din-ing Ben Administration: Activities Hecksher's absence. He was largely of a non-academic later elected student trustee administrative nature, in- · . and has served in this position eluding Reception-Information for almost two years. In this counter; Center Director's position he is also a member of Office; Dean oi Students the Forum and is Co-chair of the Offices, and Coordinator of Election Committee. Student Activities Office. David Marin: Having worked Student Activities! Activities with virtually every ad- dedicated to a specific function ministrator and trustee at the · of a special interest group that College, how would you view the services the College com- overall attitude of these two munity. These inclUde space for groups toward the students? the WRUC college radio statiqn Andrew George: The and student publications. Trustees are just genuinely ·Reservable Space: This space concerned about what students is viewed as serving a large think. At every trustee meeting number of College groups who, I've gone to they've always Continued Qn page 4 asked for student input. They Alternatives to Current Meal Plan· System Explored By JOANNE McANDREWS Jan Gray, Director of Food Service, recently discussed several issues, including the meal card system and meal plan costs. Stated Gray, ,.'Three years ago we examined the top companies in .computerized meal cards, including Griffin Technologies, Identicard, and G-board. At that time Griffin Technologies had the state of the art equipment. To give us the service and flexibility we want, it would have cost $50,000 initially and $12,000 annually.\ Continued Gray, \I thought it would be far better to put those .,.dollars . into food and renovations. For example, upgrading the freshman dining hall, improving the . specials, and upgrading the facilities. . . • I had also hoped that by the time the . C<>llege Center was completed, we might have had the capability to purchase hardware ·and develop our own - software, or ns.e other software at · a greatly reduced. price. Schools such as Syracuse University and the University of Pennsylvania have developed their own software at one-third or one-fourth of the cost of a commercial service.\ Companies claim that the computerized meal cards save colleges and Wliversities money by reducing incidents of meal card fraud, etc. Gray indicated that the only way to eliminate meal card fraud is if, upon losing a meal card, the student reports the loss immediately. The computerized meal card system would actually not be any faster ·than the present meal card pWlching system. The computerized system requires a visual check of the student's photograph, which is on the meal card. Concluded Gray, \It seemed that this kind of system would be a waste of money for the College at this time.\ . Another use for the com- puterized meal card is the so- Con*inued-on page 2 stop when they're discussing an issue and ask \What do the students think about this?\ They just love havil)g the students on the Board, they really do. 1 think the ad:. ministrators also enjoy the company of student trustees and we're just their liason to what the students think which can sometimes be dangerous because the student trustee might n9t be the typical student at Union, but sometimes you have to separate your personal feelings from what the overall student feeling may be. \What's surprising is what a good faculty we've been able to get in the past six . years with the seven . courses.'' DM: And what do you think their perceptions of the priorities ofthe College are both for the present and the future? AG: I think their pri()rities now, especially with the Administration, is maintaining a top-level faculty and this is one of the reasons for the Course Load Reduction. We're the only college that still maintains that faculty have to teach seven courses and Hamilton, Williams and Colgate all say, \well you can teach six\. What's surprising is what a good faculty we've been able to get in the past six years with the ·seven courses. But I think that their main priority now is to keep us competitive. I think that both the Administration and the Trustees are making an effort to make the Physical Plant of the College that much better for the students. DM: In past years, and of course, very notably in the present term, . students have .often complained that the Administration does not take into consideration the voiced concerns of the students. What do you think about that? AG: Actually, I think that the administrators really do care about what the students think and two people that I single out for that are the Dean of Students, who I think is always accessible to any student, and Continued on page z 1877 March 6, 1986 Union Represented at - Albany Demonstration Aid to Contras Protested By ERIC FEINGOLD Contrary to Union's over- whelmingly conservative · · dispositi()n toward politics, a dedicated few asserted their disgust with Reagan's policies. The recent bill introduced by President .Reagan calling for an increase in monetary aid to the Contra faction in Nicaragua, · created a rare action on the part of the Union community: civil disobedience. On Monday night, March 3, a very small portion of the college, namely one student and two faculty members, protested a pr<Jposed 70 million dollar increase in military aid to the Contra movement. Reagan's proposal substantially alters the current U.S. commitment to the C<>ntras, which theoretically •.provides '/.7 million dollars for the healtb and sustenance of the · trO'ops. The '~Pledge of- . Resistance\ group based in · Albany, ra1lid its supporters for an act of civil disobedience in response to this explicit af- finnation of military action. The group's protest began with a march from the Cathedral in Albany to the in- tersecti(Jn of Washington Avenue and Lark Street. Among the 'three to four hundred partidpants in this march were Senior Melinda Phillips, Professor Steve Lyng and Professor Harry Murray. After the march, Phillips, Lyng, and Murray joined 29 other in· dividuals in a traffic blockade. This protest was an act of civil disobedience planned two months ago with the intention of handing out leaflets to the cars in the area for a period of about ten minutes. The \Pledge of Resistance\ participants believe that the obstruction of traffic for ten minutes is an insignificant inconvenience in comparison to the Nicaraguan citizens killed daily by the Contras. Their primary reason for engaging in civil disobedience resulting in subsequent arrests, was for the . education of American citizens. · This goal was most effectively reached in one way: media coverage. Although the protestors officially attempted · the distribution of leaflets, the more potent consequence was local . news coverage on chan- nels 6, 10, and 13. Each member of the Union College community approached their court arraignment in different ways. Steve Lyng pleaded guilty of disorderly conduct and opted to pay the state $100.00 dollars rather than face a fifteen day jail sentence. Melinda Phillips requested an adjournment until Tuesday, March 10. Phillips pledged her allegience to ''Pledge of Resistance\ about two months ago. \Civil disobedience is ap- l'ontinued on page 3 Ne\Y SV{immirig pool completed in front of Nott Memorial. lri this issue . . . Science, Health, and Technology - pp. 12 and 13 Ms;s. Marra/Student Activities - page 6

M CXV, NoD 16 Renovation of College Center Progresses By LAURENCE MANNINO '·· Ex:tensive campas con- struction coupled with new campus policy due to recently enacted legislation concerning the drinking age has had a major impact on the social life of Union College students. These factors have, in effect, decentralized student activities here on campus. In the hopes of remedying this problem, Carnegie Hall is currently being renovated and expanded thus creating a college center that will fill the void created by these various needs. Overall Plan Outlined The overall plan for this is as follows: The College Center will combine and consolidate in a structure of approx:imately 60,000 sq. feet a variety of support services, social spaces, reservable spaces, and ad- ministrative offices presently scattered around the Union College grounds. For con- venience, these various func- tions can be classified as follows: Administration: Activities largely of a non-academic administrative nature, in- cluding Reception-Information counter; Center Director's Office; Dean of Students Offices, and Coordinator of Student Activities Office. Student Activities: Activities dedicated to a specific function of a special interest group that services the College com- munity. These include space for the WRUC college radio statiQn and student publications. Reservable Space: This space is viewed as serving a large Dumber of College groups who, Continued on page 4 ,_ <lJ .0 :::> ,_ (.!) u > rtJ 0 >- .0 0 - 0 J:: c. Andy George talks about trustee and administration attitudes. Student Trustee Answers Academic Questions By DAVID MARIN Andrew George has served as a student representative in one capacity or another for his entire four years at Union CoUegE. As a freshman and sophomore he was an elected representative to the Student Forum, serving part of that time as Chairman of the Finance Committee during Ben Hecksher's absence. He was later elected student trustee and has served in this position for almost two years. In this position he is also a member of the Forum and is Co-chair of the Election Committee. David Marin: Having worked with virtually every ad- ministrator and trustee at the College, how would you view the overall attitude of these two groups toward the students? Andrew George: The Trustees are just genuinely concerned about what students think. At every trustee meeting I've gone to they've always asked for student input. They stop when they're discussing an issue and ask \What do the students think about this?\ They just love having the students on the Board, they really do. I think the ad- ministrators also enjoy the company of student trustees and we're just their liason to what the students think which can sometintes be dangerous because the student trustee might not be the typical student at Union, but sometimes you have to separate your personal feelings from what the overall student feeling may be. \What's surprising is what a good faculty we've been able to get in the past six years with the seven courses.\ DM: And what do you think their perceptions of the priorities of the College are both for the present and the future? Alternatives to Current Meal Plan ·System Explored AG: I think their priorities now, especially with the Administration, is maintaining a top-level faculty and this is one of the reasons for the Course Load Reduction. We're the only college that still maintains that faculty have to teach seven courses and Hamilton, Williams and Colgate all say, \well you can teach six\. What's surprising is what a good faculty we've been able to get in the past six years with the seven courses. But I think that their main priority now is to keep us competitive. I think that both the Administration and the Trustees are making an effort to make the Physical Plant of the College that much better for the students. By JOANNE McANDREWS Jan Gray, Director of Food Service, recently discussed several issues, including the meal card system and meal plan costs. Stated Gray, ''Three years ago we examined the top companies in computerized meal cards, including Griffin Technologies, Identicard, and C-board. At that time Griffin Technologies had the state of the art equipment. To give us the service and flexibility we want, it would have cost $~0,000 initially and $12,000 annually.\ Continued Gray, \I thoaght it would be far better to put those .. dollars into food and renovations. For example, upgrading the freshman dining hall, improving the specials, and upgrading the facilities ... I had also hoped that by the time the College Center was completed, we might have had the capability to purchase hardware and develop our own software, or use other software at a greatly reduced price. Schools such as Syracuse University and the University of Pennsylvania have developed their own software at one-third or one-fourth of the cost of a commercial service.\ Companies claim that the computerized meal cards save colleges and universities money by reducing incidents of meal card fraud, etc. Gray indicated that the only way to eliminate meal card fraud is if, upon losing a meal card, the student reports the loss immediately. The computerized meal card system would actually not be any faster than the present meal card punching system. The computerized system requires a visual check of the student's photograph, which is on the meal card. Concluded Gray, \It seemed that this kind of system would be a waste of money for the College at this time.\ Another use for the com- puterized meal card is the so- Continued on page 2 DM: In past years, and of course, very notably in the present term, students have often complained that the Administration does not take into consideration the voiced concerns of the students. What do you think about that? AG: Actually, I think that the administrators really do care about what the students think and two people that I single out for that are the Dean of Students, who I think is always accessible to any student, and Continued on page 2 March 6, 1986 Union Represented at Albany Demonstration Aid to Contras Protested By ERIC FEINGOLD Contrary to Union's over- whelmingly conservative disposition toward politics, a dedicated few asserted their disgust with Reagan's policies. The recent bill introduced by President Reagan calling for an increase in monetary aid to the Contra faction in Nicaragua, created a rare action on the part of the Union community: civil disobedience. On Monday night, March 3, a very small portion of the college, namely one student and two faculty members, protested a proposed 70 million dollar increase in military aid to the Contra movement. Reagan's proposal substantially alters the current U.S. commitment to the Contras, which theoretically provides 27 million dollars for the health and sustenance of the troops. The ''Pledge of Resistance\ group based in Albany, rallid its supporters for an act of civil disobedience in response to this explicit af- firmation of military action. The group's protest began with a march from the Cathedral in Albany to the in- tersection of Washington Avenue and Lark Street. Among the 'three to four hundred participants in this march were Senior Melinda Phillips, Professor Steve Lyng and Professor Harry Murray. After the march, Phillips, Lyng, and Murray joined 29 other in· ... Q) .a :::1 ... e> \0 > rtJ 0 >- .a 0 +- 0 .c Q. ,.~ ~ ,_ . ..S....~==• dividuals in a traffic blockade. This protest was an act of ci vii disobedience planned two months ago with the intention of handing out leaflets to the cars in the area for a period of about ten minutes. The \Pledge of Resistance\ participants believe that the obstruction of traffic for ten minutes is an insignificant inconvenience in comparison to the Nicaraguan citizens killed daily by the Contras. Their primary reason for engaging in civil disobedience resulting in subsequent arrests, was for the education of American citizens. This goal was most effectively reached in one way: media coverage. Although the protestors officially attempted the distribution of leaflets, the more potent consequence was local news coverage on chan- nels 6, 10, and 13. Each member of the Union College community approached their court arraignment in different ways. Steve Lyng pleaded guilty of disorderly conduct and opted to pay the state $100.00 dollars rather than face a fifteen day jail sentence. Melinda Phillips requested an adjournment until Tuesday, March 10. Phillips pledged her allegience to \Pledge of Resistance\ about two months ago. \Civil disobedience is ap- l'ontinued on page 3 New swimming pool completed in front of Nott Memorial. In this issue . . . Science, Health, and Technology - pp. 12 and 13 MI,\S. Marra/Student Activities - page 6

Page2 CONCORDIENSIS, Marclz 6, 1986 Andrew George Reviews College's Policies L. OJ .0 ::> L. l!J :2 > 10 0 >- .0 $2 0 ..c: 0.. l986or 1968? Computerized Meal Plan System Investigated Continued from page 1 called \declining balance\ meal card. Students pay a certain amoW1t of money for the card, and are allowed to pay for food by \charging\ it on the card. The advantage to the student is that no cash is han- dled and the account is like money in a bank that you can draw on at will to purchase food. An important factor having to do with meal plan costs at Union is the \missed meal factor\. Food Service realizes that not everyone will use all of the meals that their meal cards entitle them to, and adjusts the price of the meal plans ac- cordingly. If everyone con- swned all of the meals on their meal cards, tnen according to Gray, the price of the meal plans would be doubled. The price of meal plans has actually not risen very much in the past few years. In 1979, the average cost per meal on the 19 meal plan was 2.11; today it is $2.65, Upperclassmen are able to examine their eating patterns and preferences and choose a suitable meal plan. However, Gray believes that it is im- portant that freshmen are on the 19 meal per week plan. \We are kind of pushing therrl to. make sure that they eat fruits, vegetables and a truly blanaced variety of fo1d.\ Food Service experiences problems when students break the meal contract. Under these circwnst~nces, Food Service does not financially break even and the missed meal factor decreases. Gray gave examples of Food Service's special offers including Dutchmen's Night, the Valentine's Day dinner, and the recent Comedy Night held in Old Chapel. As Gray stated, \We don't want our managers and checkers to become policemen. Instead of checking for meal card fraud, the Food Service staff should be supervising the production of food, making sure that the facilities are clean, and listening to customer views. If people continue to try to beat the system, it will create a real problem.\ \In 1979, the average cost per meal on the 19 meal plan was $2.11; today it is $2.65.\ _. Gray made special mention of Late Night Bites, which is held Sunday and Thursday nights in Hale House, featuring live music and desserts. She added that a cappuccino and espresso machine will be available at Late Night Bites during Spring Term. Also, the 21 has recently started in Hale House Lower Lounge. 1n conclusion, Gray noted that the student Food Service workers really care about Food Service. \For example, the student manager at West, Peter Ralbousky, and his staff have volunteered to run study break nights in West from 10 PM- midnight during exam week instead of assembling care packages. Also, the student staff at the Skellar have been magnificent- Toby Wilmott, Cecil Cadwell, Christine Robinson, Kelly McNeil, and Ron Amidon, to name a few.\ -I.E.F. DEADLINE- Continued from,pag~ 1 also this term, I think that another person who really has to be singled out is the President, who £Uter meeting with a group of stuqents and finding out a lot of their com- plaints about a few things, from getting a van for students to go . to the mall and the .. Y\ ac- tually acted on the 21 Club, and is now very much interested in hearing what the students have to say about the academic changes that are happening around campus. I think they made an effort this term to go out there to speak with students-maybe it came a little late-but all the problems that have come about this term, a lot of them just fell through the cracks. We can point fingers at a lot of people, but I don't think that'll be that constructive. I think it's a more constructive atmosphere to say, \o.k. this is what's happened in the past. Let's see if we can pick it up and go from there.\ DM: The phrase that \a college should not be run like a business\ has been used to express discontent by some who feel the balance sheet comes before the students. Do you see the Administration taking that attitude or do you think it has more of a concern for students . than indicated by that student? AG: Just because we're run like a business, which we are since education is a big business, it doesn't necessarily follow that the Administration doesn't care for the students. I think that you just have to look around the campus at the construction sights and you'll see that care for the students. DM: Though much spared of attack in the past, the faculty as of late seems to have · come under the student guns, also. How do you see the role uf the faculty in our current period of transition? AG: First of all, I think that the vast majority of the faculty are quite dedicated to what they are doing, and when I say what they are doing, I mean specifically, teaching. And I think that most faculty are quite available during their free time ,and after class. That I have to commend them for. I personally have never had a problem with that. I think faculty and depart- ments have to take a view that the College's interests may have to come before certain of The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two' categories-- student-initiated research projects and \educationaliy innovative projects\ and Faculty Research Grants is Friday, Aprilll. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean·'s office (slOO, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (Sl 00). Guidelines with respect to the I.E.F. are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about I.E. F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dr. Ilene M. Kaplan, Associate Dean of Faculty. Please specify if funds will be needed before June 20, 1986 or after. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transporation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. -Faculty Research Deadline- The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is now sol.iciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and g.uidelines are available in Dean kaplan;s Office (5100-S & E). The deadline for submission of'proposals is Friday, April.ll. Questions concerni'ng the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Kaplan. Please specifY if funds will be needed before June 20, 1986 or after. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transporation costs should also reflect the best rates available. their own department's in,. terests. Take, for example the · course reduction. l think it's fine when a department works out a feasible way to reduce the course load, but what happened this term, in certain instances, is that they did do that in a responsible manner for their departments, but at the same time what happened was they let loose students who couldn't find courses in their department and pushed those students onto other departments. That was a miscalculation. But I think that the faculty have to realize that a decision that they make not only affects their departments and their peo)ille, but affects everyone and I think when they · make the decisions on what courses to cut and to cycle they have to take this into· account. \Realize that the AAC is . only one body and the Student Forum has other . alternatives. And I think· that one alternative,· namely going to the faculty with (Gel-Time postponement) will_ prove successful. And if the ·faculty's smart, I think . they will vote for post· ponement.'' DM: Could you say a few words about Gel-Time-about the proposal itself as well as the way in which it has been brought forward. AG: First of all, I think it was a bad idea for the Academic Affairs CoW1cil to appove it for the main reason that they saw themselves as one body making a decision and they were ad- vised by the students on the AAC that we're up against a lot of changes right now. Not that students are necessarily against change, but 'With any. change, things fall between the cracks. It's happened with every change that's occurred on campus this term. So I was kind of disappointed when the AAC did approve it. It's not over- whelmingly accepted so they're just adding another controversy to this winter and I didn't think that was the wisest move. I was very happy that the Student Forum used its power within the governance system to advise the AAC and the faculty that a post)ilonement of this whole issue would be the best thing because I don't think we should. have another issue that volatile · to he debated on campus . DM: Do you think that the AAC was remiss in its duties bY not taking into consideration both the results of the student poll last year and the voiced concerns o.f the student members this year and, in a broader context, how do you think this is· indicative of other areas in which student interests have· been overlooked? AG:\ I was surprised when I found out of the AAC's decisi<>n to go ahead with Gel-Time. Is it .indicative of a lot of things that go on? I say no simply because I look at this one issue-the Gel- Time issue and I see the Forum now saying, \we want a post- ponement\ and writing letters to faculty and I think what you'll find there is that the students are going to be listened to. Realize that the AAC is only one body and the· Student Forum has other alternatives. And I think that one alternative, · namely going to the faculty with it will prove successful. And if the faculty's smart, I think they will vote for postponement.\ DM: Do you think that it should have gotten to the point where the Student Forum felt that it had to appeal directly to the faculty in order to coW1- teract what the AAC had done? AG: Again, I was surprised it got that far. I don't think it should have gone past the AAC this year. DM: In a letter to the editor last week, you say, \I am hopeful and excited about the future of the College.\ What gives you that hope and is that hope because of or despite the current \transition\? . AG: ·I'm hopeful because I think that right now we have an administration that is, for . the most part, dynamic. And I think that it's a well-managed college and I thik what they're trying to • do through a lot of these Continued olipg. 3 ._ 1985-86 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring term classes will begin. at 8:30a.m. on Monday, March 31. Student schedules will be distributed to campus mailboxes prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at theField House beginning at 8-:00a.m. on the first day of classes. Formal registration and validation of I.D. cards will take place in the Field House on Monday and Tuesday, March 31 and April 1. Students should register according to the following schedule unless there is a conflict with a class: Last Name Report A- E Monday morning, 8:30-11:30 a.m. FnK Monday afternoon, 1:00-4:00 p.m. L- R Tuesday morning, 8:30-11:30 a.m. S - Z Tuesday afternoon, 1:00-4:00 p.m. A representative of the Business Office will be present at the Field House to handle late payment of term bills and to help resolve any billing problems. · Students are reminded that completion of formal registration procedures is REQUmED OR ALL STUDENTS REGARDLESS OF WHETHER OR NOT A STUDENT HAS PRE· RFEGISTERED OR PAID FOR THE TERM. Failure' to register may· jeopardize financial aid .awards and academic credit. Registration after Wednesday, Aptil2, will be considered LATE and a fee of $25 will be assessed. SCHEDULE CHANGES In addition to formal registration, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at the Field House from Monday, March 31 thru Wednesday, April 2 and thereafter at the Registrar's Office in Silliinan Hall. The last day for making schedUle changes without \special permission\ as well as the last day to declare \pass-fail\ intentions for a course, is Friday, April 4. Any course dropped after that date will result in a grade of ''W'' (Withdraw). l. '· I

i I l '· I CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 . . ' ' '.' ' Forum Representative······· Addresses Campus Issues Continued from page 2 changes is to improve the quality of the College. A.gain, academic course load reduC- tion, although there are problems with it, the general idea is to maintain top-quality faculty. I think that the money they're spending on the physical improvements to the campus is just tremendous and log overdue. That's why I'm very ' between the two. I think I always put the students' views ' first; I just do it in a quiet : manner. I'm not the student . · that's going to get out there and : yell and lead the charge but I · am the student who will go to . the Administration and say, · \We have a problem here and , let'sfind a solution as quickly as : possible.'; hopeful for the College's future. \Students are (not) DM: During your four years necessarily against here, you've had the op- h b t 'th I really think that we shouid try to exist as two separate entities which are joined by the interest that we do serve the students and that shoqld be our . main· concern and not in- terpersonal rivalries. DM: Hqw do you see the role of the Student Forum on campus and how has it changed during your four years nere and specifically, what do you think of the accomplishments of this year's Forum compared with those of past years? _ portl!Ility to be on many dif- C ange, U WI any ferent committees and you have change, things fall beta AG: I've seen it improve dealt with a lot of ad- · · ween the cracks.\ because the leaders of the ministrators and often in the Forwn have been really things you say to the Forum and DM: Do you think that \knee- competent these past three in letters to the editor that you jerk\ responses are ever in or- years. This year's Forum is occasionally write and in other der? unique in that we've become, in places, you take positions that AG: Of course. I think we've essence, a complaint depart- might be seen by some to be · gotten a lot of them in this term. ment, and I don't say that with sympathetic with the I think. the thing about the any cynicism, and we've had a Administration. Do you think \knee-jerk\ response is that lot of opportunity to respond to that you have in any . way students view that there's those complaints. abandoned the interests of the something wrong and they don't students and do you think that know what, but they're mad and DM: What about criticism by maybe you· find yourself too that's why they come to the people, for example, Jason sympathetic with the Forum. And it's our respon- Green, in last week's Con- Administration? sibility to pinpoint what's cordiensis, and by other people AG: I've been accused of that. wrong. that the Student Forwn is not Am I sympathetic to the DM: For well over four years, doing what it could be and Administration? No, but I do an unspoken tension has existed . should be doing as far as, say, support them in many regards. between Concordiensis and the sticking up for the rights of I have a difficult position. A Student Forum, verging often students? student trustee is kind of on both on outright antagonism. What AG: There are some people sides of the fence. When· issues do you see as the source -of this out there who want things done come up that put the two tension and do you see any extremely quickly, and I'm one (Administration and the possibilities for its resolution? of them, basically. I have very students) at odds, which side do AG: The Forum is the little patience for a slow moving I take? The trustee who's publisher of Concordiensis in bureaucracy, but what you suppQsed to stand behind the the sense that it gives it money. realize is that you have to work Board and the Administration So there is the natural foun,. within a bureaucracy. If you or ·the student who's supposed dation for antagonism. I don't want things done efficiently, · to be waving the flag and think the Forum wants to step in they're going to take a little leading the revolt (no pun in- most of the time and my ex- time. I think the Forum's been tended)? What I try to do is perience is that we're not that living up to its obligation to provide a delicate balance good when we do. students very well this year. GET YOUR TAN BEFORE SPRING BREAK! I and Keep That Vacation Look All Term. Get a Golden Suntan in a maHe.- Qf minutes in the Cool Comfort of our Private Tanning Booths FIRST TANNING VISIT IS FREE! Call For Your Union Discount Also Available at Golden Image Tanning Salon: Our Expert Tina Specialize§in: Total Nail Care, Waxing, Bikini Waxing, Skin Care, and Pedicures Union CoUege Students Get 1 0% OH Our Already Low Prices We're located right above Gepetto's Restaurant Golden Image Tanning Salon 547-Nott Street • 344-4367 TANNING SALON Call Now for your First Appointment!!! Page3 ... (]) .0 :I ... <.!> u > tO Q .>- .0 0 .... 0 J:. a. Dean Daniels discusses the teac;her evaluation process. Teacher Evaluation System Assessed ByJONCOHN The evaluation of teachers by students has long been debated within college administrations. As long as the systems of assessing the quality of the professors have been in place, there have also been problems with the. sincerity of the students' comments. The main questions are: Do the students take the time to honestly fill out the sheets or are they rushed through on the way out the door? Also, is it fair to rate a teacher by points according to a specific questions? These are questions that need to be ad- dressed if the system is to be of any use to a school. Though the problem is one that varies from school to school, the difficulties are a national subject of debate. At Union, the system is used as objectively as possible in judging the teaching skill~ of the professors. 'fhe questto~s range from the profe~sor s knowledge of the material to how th-e professor presents him or herself to the class. Accor- ding to Dean of Undergraduate Students, William J. Daniels, \The ad- ministration looks at the results as a Whole, in order to make decisions about things like tenure, salary raises and promotions.\ . After interviewing members of the English, Math, Philosophy, and Engineering Departments, the general assessment of the system by the professors, . who wished to remain anonymous, was that the evaluations were useful only if the students take the time to answer them completely. Problems arose with the results when the students fail to write out the specific problems they had with the class. Instead of this, many students just give the class a numerical rating, which is of little use in correcting the problems. Other objections with the integrity of the system arouse because of the way the evaluations were given. The papers are gi'v~n out at the end of the term, u8ually in the final minutes of the class. The students, as a result, might feel a \guillotine affect\ thinking that in some way criticism of the professor could play a part in the professor's view of them. The student might also rush the evaluation in order to leave the room as quickly as passible. Finally, junior professors without tenure could want to get a good rating to receive benefits. Someone new to the profession might not be settled into the job, and this coupled with financial :woiTies could result in the professor aiding the students' grades for a better rating. The end result is the removal of much of that professor's independence and the addition of unnecess~ry pressure. There are many criticisms of teacher evaluations, buj;.._they are really the only way the ad- ministration can find out how students feel about their academic life. Daniels feels that most students do take it seriously, and though they do not entirely go by it, it does carry some weight. The people who judge the professors know that things like the subject of the class must also be con- sidered, and they do try to make the fairest overall evaluation as possible. The evaluations are taken more seriously when the same problems come up over the years. Hopefully, a good professor can sense how the class feels and can be flexible enough to make changes. At Union the evaluations ha:ve base questions that all the departments receive. In ad- dition, the teachers are free to add questions that they see as appropriate. Perhaps the overall system needs to be changed in order to bring in more student input. When the students talk more freely, the validity of the evaluation program will also rise. Unionites Participate In Civil Disobedience Continued from page 1 propriate in this circumstance because U.S. intervention in Nicaragua viol<!tes in- ternational law and all of the supposed .ideals of our society. I can't support Reagan's action for the Contras on any level, especially for direct military support. I pledged myself to any non-violent action necessary to stop U.S. intervention and to encourage the U.S. to represent the Contradora process.\ For those of the readers in ignorance of the Contradora process, the terni refers to a coalition of several Latin American countries including Mexico, Colombia, Costa Rica. and Venezuela. The coalition's intention is to promote peaceful solutions to political problems in Latin America. Professor Murray pleaded not .guilty to the charge of disorderly conduct. He will deliver his defense on March 27, coincidentially Holy Thursday. Murray will argue his case on moral and religious grounds, claiming that he broke the law for the purpose of averting a greater evil, namely further deaths in Nicaragua. According to his religious principles based on Catholicism, he said, Continued on page 4 • • ' ' • • • .. o t• ~ ~ o • •' • a • . .. ~ . . . . .. . . . . . . . '· c, oil: \- It '4 ~ <1: .. : ,t,.. illl ~- ;. ~ c • , ..:.• .1. .... (''\\' \' ,• , • ~ • • ~ o. \' b ~ • • -< ~ • ,.. ~ ,. ~ • \!; • ~ • \,' r • ' · '

Page4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 The new Campus Center pub will overloo~ Jackson's Gardens. Facilities of New Campus Center Detailed Continued from page 1 on a reservable basis, gain access to the spaces. They are characterized by ·their flexibility and ability to serve several needs. These spaces include meeting and media space; Conference Rooms; Cabaret-Lounge, and a small auditorium. Social Space: These are spaces characterized by their public accessibility, en- couraging spontaneous and short duration involvement from College Center occupants. Since the major goal of the Center is to stimulate in- teraction between diverse groups within a common space, the College intends to dedicate the use of ~,pace for this pur- pose. Included are: a reading- music-listening area; a game room, and the College Corn- mons. Food Services: These are spaces reserved for food preparation and service. Recommended for inclusion in the Center are: a Main Dining Hall (300 seats; a smaller (Pub' 150 seats); a central kitchen; storage area and Food Service Offices. Support Services: These services will require space for Protest. • • Continued from page 2 ''Reagan's war on Nicaragua is unjust because the Contras are specifically murdering civilians. Therefore, according to church teachings, I must oppose that action.\ Regardless ·of political the day-to-day necessities of life, such as: College mail service; the College Store, Book Store and offices. With the centralized myriad of services created by the new College Center in conjunction with the modern, atrium-like architecture it seems that great strides have been taken toward the betterment of many aspects of Union College life. orientation, the dedication and personal sacrifice that Lyng, Murray,. and Phillips exhibited is worthy of note. Their actions drastically exceed the usual condition of political apathy many claim efd,sts at Union College. · ORIENTATION COMMinEE This year's Orientation <;:ommittee lilas been selected and has begun planning. the program for Orientation 1986. The Com- mittee, as well as the co-chairmen of the group were in- terviewed ar:~d sel.ected by Robert J. Massa and last year's chairman and vice-chairman Lisa 'Freed a.nd Janet Keyes. The Committee III(Ould also like to announce at this time that applications for the position of Orientation AdVisor are available to all those students taking a leave of absence spring term. They wi.ll be available starting Monday, March 6th until the end of' spring term in the Office of Student Affairs, Whitak~r House. All other students interested in the O.A. position can obtain their applicati.ons starting Monday, March 31st; the first day of spring term. They will be avai.lable in Old ChapeL Interviews wHI begin on Tuesday, April 15th. You may sign op for an in- terview Whei'l you r:eturn your appHcatltm to the Student Affairs Office. If you have any question$ please feel free to cont{lct any committee member.. · · Julie Mountain and Kelly Larkin, serving as co-ChairmeA of Orientation '86, would also li.ke to congratulate and give recognition to all Orientation Committee members. Thank you. Selected as Orientation Commi-ttee members are: Meredith Auten, Winston. Bliss, Keith Conklin, Claudia Dudac~, Wendy Endress,· Stephanie Jaryna, lise Jenouri, L.isa Kaplan, :John Medej, Gina Padula, Jennifer Scully, Tammy Thomas, Mark Webster and John Zuk. The President's Commission on the Staus .of Women at Union College is soliciting nominations for Prize Day awards as described in the following areas: Senior Thesis Prize: to the student whose senior thesis makes the greatest contribution to scholarship on w.omen. Nominations are solicited from studen~ submitted senior theses and from · faculty receiving such submissions. Senior Scholarly Activity Award:to the senior student who displays outstanding scholarly activity in herfield. Nominations are solicited from faculty offering docwnenation of student accomplishments. ~ Community Service Award: to the student who has devoted the most time and energy to furthering the-cause of women at Union. Norninatipns are solicited from campus organizations submitting relevant information. · Senior Award:to the senior who has done the greatest promotion of sports for women at Union. Non-senior Award:to the non-senior student who has shown the most promise in the area of women's sports. Nominations for both athletic awards from coaches and team members submitting documentation. · If you wish to make a nomination, please submit name( s) and documentation to Lucille Paludi at the Administration Building (x6104) by April2, 1986. PIZZA 374-4332 FAST I HOT I FREE DELIVERY Now Open Late for Your Convenience: Wednesday thru Saturday till :OOa.m. Serving the BEST PIZZA at the BEST PRICE! ·free 32 oz. Soda with any order over $5.00 on Su.nday nights r \ ,r'

CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 PageS FEATURES UNION U'NIVERSITY . . TRAVELING CLUB AT UNION COLLEGE The· Evolution of Union's Social Life The Union University Traveling Club will be sponsoring a trip to the Empire State institution for the Performing Arts to see ' 1 A Class 'C' Trial in Yokohama\ on April 12 at 8:00p.m. This is a provocative new play set in the emotionally ch.arged aftermath of World War II. The cost will be $15 which includes transportation and the ticket. The bus V!iU leave at 6:30p.m. from in front of the Skellar. Tickets will be avai I able in the Student Activities Office on the 3rd Floor of Old Chapel. There are only 41 tickets so buy yours now. Edlt~r's Note: This is the last ina term-long series of excerpts from. C. William Huntley's ·book entitled, Thirty Years in the Life of a College. We wish to thank Professor Huntley for his C(lOperation in allowing us to excerpt his work. One must remember that before the seventies the dorm residents were exclusively men and, as a matter of fact, on those very rare times whEm one saw a woman entering one of the sections, there was a possibility that someone would caD the ''campus cops.'' Even visiting mothers were not allowed to visit in the dorms; sometimes mothers would come t<J our door to ask if I would go next door and ask their sons to come out to the car. The reason give11 for this was to avoid the e.mba.J;J;assment of having the mother come face to face with a completely nude undergraduate strolling casually back to his r-oom from the shower. Related to the issue of drinking on campus, one may trace the changes that took place in official college policy in the matter of parietal rules, the r-ules that once dealt with the questi<>n of when women might be in the men's rooms. One has to remember in this context that we are dealing with a change from what might be charac- terized as a Victorian standard of propriety to a complete permissiveness as reflected, for example, in a coed dormitory of today. This issue came to the fore at Union in the fifties when the same kind of ferment was taki.ng place on campuses thro11ghout the country. One read of changes that would permlt a woman to be in a man's dormitory room as long as the door was wide open, then a little later if the door was ajar, and again, if all four feet were on the floor, and so forth. In 1958 the CoD.cordy was pushing for more freedom as reflected in an editcil'ial: In a recent editorial, the Concordiensis noted faults in Union's social code. Com- paris()n of these rules with those of .schools like Amlierst, Hamilton and RPI indicates that Union needs' to give· con- sideration to revision of its regulations and act to improve them. The' Concordiensis proposes that the College adopt a realistic view of twentieth century social conditions and that the student body through the Student Councilact to revise the r-ules. We suggest the foll{)wing revision: 1 .. That women be allowed in d()rmltory rooms and fraternity b()ttse private rooms until 5:30 p.m. on weekt;mds with two couples in a room. 2. That women be allowed in fraternity house pi:ivate rooms untll !:1:30 p.m. on party Weekends with. two couples in a room. ,.. 3. That students be permitted to keep alcoholic beverages in their rooms. sixties, students became less and less agreeable to this sort of regimentation, and tried getting by with various evasions SU<;!h as appearing in Shirts or ties over T -shirts with jackets. In 1967 the Concordy poured a little oil on the fire by reporting that Yale College had just decided to forego traditional dress in the Continued on page 7 These revisions are con· tingent upon the Union man's behaving with ''conduct befitting a gentleman.\ We further recommend that fraternities set up their own regulatory agencies. The Concordiensis hopes that the House Presidents' Council and the Student Council will consider these revisions and act to bring Union's social code to a realistic level. We woUld be happy to send a representative to a committee which could be established for this purpose, or provide information bleaned from other campuses. Miami on the Move May2,1958 . The question of dress in West College was another example of adjusting to changes in social custom. For several years after its opening, dinner at West presumed ja¢ket and tie. As with everything else in the NUAMIBEACH,FL(CPS)- \Miami Beach wants you,\ is the message to college students from the city that once prided itself on a sedately geriatric lifestyle. In the past, Miami Beach has snubbed student dollars, prefering to let Fort Lauderdale and Daytona Beach to the north cope with the noise, petty crime and congestion~as well as the business boom-of the annual spring-break rush. Basketball Marathon The Union College fraternity Phi Gamma Delta will hold its Eighth Annual 24-Hour Basketball Marathon on March 7 and 8 in the Union College Fieldhouse. Through the efforts of local celebrities and Union students, funds will be raised for Schenectady County for the Missing Children-Community Alert Network (CAN). The event will run from noon on Friday through noon on Saturday; admission is free. Teamsmade up of brothers of Phi Gamma Delta and Union women will play half-hour games through the day and night. Local celebrity teams . will also participate, with one team to include Schenectady Assemblyman JJm Tedisco, City Council President Tom Isabella, Mayor Karen Johnson, Councilmen Vince DiCerbo, AI Jurczynski, Tom Hanaway, and David Nowak, County Board Representative Margaret ' Buhrmaste, and District Attorney John Poersik. This team will take on the Phi Gam brothers at 10 a.m. on Saturday. Following that game, at 11 a.m., a contest between Schenectady police am:J fire departments will be held. Donations will be solicited by fraternity members, and may also be sent directly to: Phi Gamma Delta, Box 2509, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308. Last year, donations, ex- ceeding $3,000, were given to the Schenectady Big Brothers-Big Sisters Association, and this year the fraternity hopes to double that amount. The Community Alert Network is a computerized system for telephoning selected areas of Schenectady County in the event of any kind of emergency, including the event of a missing child. •••••••••••••••••••• Muscular Dystrophy Association Super Dance Sat. April 12th 10 p.m.-4 a.m. Old Chapel Come out and dance for those who can 1 t. For more info call x6951 . •••••••••••••••••••• But as part of a push for ecommic renewal, the city this year actively is vying for a piece of the spring-break action, promising to add a little ''vice'' to students' stay on its shores. For example, while Lauderdale and Daytona this year will unveil tough new rules to control public drinking, Miami Beach is erecting shoreline refreshment stands stocked with beer. · Les Feldman of Miami Beach's tourism board adds that,. though he can't speak for the police, he expects \nobody will bother-\ hotel guests toting drinks from hotel bars to ocean beaches. \Now that (network tv show) 'Miami Vice' is a hot show, portraying a vibrant image, we feel we have a fighting chance to promote our area again,\ Feldman says. The 50-year-old city has gotten a little dogeared in the ~last decade, he says, and an infusion of new tourist dollar'> will help finance its renaissance. Besides, says Feldman, \Old people don't necessarily want to look at old people. They enjoy seeing attractive bodies on the beach.\ But Miami Beach's message to student tipplers has caused some contr-oversy . \The media's interpreted this as we're promoting alcoholism and a disregard for the law,\ objects Feldman. \We're not.\ Like most cities in Florida, Miam Beach has an open- container law, forbidding drinking in public places. \Sure we have laws on the books, but whether you enforce them or not is another matter,\ Feldman says. \We've never really had students here, so we'll deal with it when it hap- pens. \And if you want to get · technical, a styrofoam cup (of beer or wine) never was a closed container,\ he adds. \So how can it violate an open- container law?\ Police, however, will enforce laws against glass or coolers on the beach, so \a bottle of vodka would not be tolerated.\ Several hundred University of Miami students also will patrol the beaches during the up- coming spring break, hosting and cleaning up after out-of;. town visitors. Last spring break, nearby Fort Lauderdale spent $75,000 to clean up after its student guests. Fort Lauderdale officials aren't worried about losing much of their spring-break trash, traffic or tourist business to Miami Beach. Mayor Robert Dressler, in fact, wishes his new competitor the best of luck. \We would be delighted to share our blessings,'' he says. Gatesmen Selection Organizational Meeting Wednesday, Mar. 12 4:30P.M. Hale House Lower Lounge T~r:JE WflRfJ VINTAGE CLOTHING 179 JAY STREE:.I SCHENECTADY, NEW YORK (518) 370·3257

Pa~e6 CONC(_)Rf!IEIJSIS, March 6, 1986 l . FEATURES M-s. Marra: Increasing Role of Student Activities . Offi~e I.. QJ .a :::1 I.. (!) QJ > ttl' 0 >- ;Q 0 .... 0 .c: a. ByMARJORmHOFFER It's been 25 years--and one has yet to encounter a more positive person. concerning Union. More than a picture in the Freshman Record, more than a name at the bottom of your activities bUlletin-it's . up close and in person with Mrs. Marra .... the backbone of student activities. She began to make . her mark working on the annual fund. When the part-time position opened up for student activities Mrs. Marra took the job, having no idea that she would become one of the most active members of the ad~ ministration. Her former job entailed traffic court, along with the student activities. When Carnegie opened as the student center, the duties as Head of Student Activities appeared to be endlesss. Any What Do You Think of Schaffer Library Faci I ities? \Schaffer library does not have nearly enough materials. I find it virtually impossible to do a research paper here. I think Union should definitely invest a good amount of its funds to expand the library.\ -Michele Kupfer, '88 \The books seem to be out- dated, which makes it difficult to do research on contemporary topics. We need more current volumes.\ .. -Steve Moss, '87 \I feel the facilities of the library are adequate for research, but the books seem to be ancient.\ -Anonymous \They're inadequate. There's not enough reference books to sufficiently complete any in- depth long term paper.\ .... Anonymous, '88 \It lacks many updated books for the social sciences. Though for a small school the facilities are not that bad, my high school was just as good if not better.\ .... Anonymous, '86 \So far it has sJJited my pur- poses-it's a pretty good place to study.\ --J.D., '89 ''Inadequate! (Interlibrary loan is good, though). Example: a book on genetics or blood typing-the latest date is 1951. Facilities seriously lac}sing.\ -Anonymous '86 \Seems fine but we need more books and other sources.\ --Pat Virnich, '86 \They never have the books or periodicals that I am looking for when doing research. Also, they should keep more of the library open past 11: 00-the all night study is always too noisy.\ -Anonymous '87 \The problem that disturbs me the most is the lack of com- fortable facilities in which to study. Reading chairs are outdated, the heat is dry and irratic, and many of the study areas are in high traffic areas.\ -Anonymous \Library facilities are very acce.ssible, bu~ sometimes limited in source~.\ -Tim Lucey, '89 \Inadequate number of study areas--space could be used more efficiently. Books are old and outdated and the selection is limited.\ -Anonymous, '88 ''The selection is outdated. Research concerning modern topics is almost impossible. I do· all my research at Albany. The library is also too cramped and does not provide you with suitable, noise-free study areas.\ .... Anonymous, '87 ''From personal experience, the selection of books is not adequate. However, I ha,,e been · told that this is the fau:t of the individual departmep~s for not ordering up-to-date materials that their students need.\ -Stanley Ference, '86 \I hate the downstairs. There should be some place to study together and talk where no one gets upset. Nice selection.\ -Anonymous \I know it's a popular com- plaint, but I've never had any research problems with the library. It seems well equipped to me, and I've done lots of papers here.\ ..... Anonymous '86 \A great place to socialize, and even study if you're in the mood.\ · -Anonymous \Facilities ... what facilities?\ -Anonymous -Adam and Rob's World By ADAM EMERSON and ROB BLEIFER Major world news last week proved to be eye opening for local Schenectady officials. This week's top story revealed a scandal in last year's Gel-Time vote. Ferdinand Marcos has been implicated as the key suspect in the ballot-box stuffing incident. Meanwhile, in a heated Haitian act of revenge, Gerber baby food has admitted to · placing glass slivers in \Baby Doc's., supply of applesauce. Unfortunately, due to shipping errors, the tainted shipment has been scattered across super- marl{et shelves throughout the u.s. In a related story, several cases have been cited in Westchester of cyanide laced with extra-strength Tylenol. According to one victim's wife, \My husband was overjoyed. In a desperate attempt to end his three year headache he tmknowingly took the Tylenol- laced cyanide. During his convulsions he gleefully replied, 'My headache is gone'!'' This week in sports, Peter U eberoth finally ·came to a decision, giving an ultimatum to several players including the Mets' Keith Hernandez for his drug use three years ago. Curtis Strong, the drug dealer who originally fingered these players, has implicated four Union College athletes for alcohol abuse that took place at their senior proms four years ago. President Morris is currently considering their suspensions, although the four stutteilts are having a difficult time recalling the prom. In a new feature: terrorist of the week is Musammar Qaddafi for dressing in lovely designer jumpsuits and just being a great .guy. $1000 will be donated in his name to the P.L.O. training program for up and coming terrorists. Congratulations Muammar. This past week, NASA engineers opposed to the Challenger launch, admitted to being threatened not to con1e forward by top NASA officials. A startling discovery was made .late last night when it was revealed that a Union College student bribed the aforemen- tioned officials to let the launch take place. In a private in- terview, a fellow student was heard to mumble \the project would have failed and this was the only way to receive thesis credit.\ Meanwhile, back at the ranch, after taking a walk in the woods, Aunt Martha was lying in a ditch. In the business world, Pepsi, in an attempt to strengthen its position in the soft drink in- dustry, bought out 7-UP. Trying to stay close, Coke bought Dr. Pepper. Infuriated by this change in events, Pepsi has bought out the rest of the free world. On the lighter side, Prince Charles has been enjoying an event filled vacation in the U.S. This past week he attended a student who wanted to have an. One problem 1'4rs. Marra sees office for their club, only needed is that unfortunately not enough to paint one of the vacant rooms stndents are taking advantage in Carnegie and it was theirs. · of the st1;1dent activities. Now a With tne addition -of the Pub, the tradition, the Cabaret began as student center really came into an unpainted room in Carnegie existence. Today, since the Hall. Stndents took the initiative campus lacks the use of a and pooled their talents to start student center and the change what has become one of the in the drinking age has further rnost popular events on campus. disrupted the campus activities It's all but too easy to get in- students have become more volved here at Union, and this dependent upon student run concept cannot l:Je stressed activities for their social life, enough by the energetic Mrs. Thus, Mrs. Marra's office is Marra. Clubs come and go, busier than ever. their popularity most often Admitting that a lot of people depends upon the charisma of are sllffering from the winter the officers. Certain activities, doldrums, Mrs. Marra feels such as the debate club, once that the students and ad- brought Union prestige but have ministration can work together died o11t (Mrs. Marra said that to conquer this apathy. She has she. would love to see it become been working with a lot of active again ... ). Others, such as students planning new and Crew, are beginning and en- successful activities. More trips joying a huge success. She feels are being planned With the that many students do not traveling club; special dinners realize how important a well and dances and buses to the r()unded education is. malls are outgrowths of the Mrs. Marra says it has often change in the drinking age. She been the same people who show stated that \You have to ac- the initiative to do something cept change.\ Noticing that the about the social life. She is very seniors \feel a little left out\ of eager to wor.k with all students the social life, she thinks that in creating new clubs and ac- \ Admitting that alot of people are suffering from winter doldrums, Mrs. Marra feels students and administration can work tC>gether to congoer this apathy.\ the 21 club is a positive answer to the many complaints. The seniors also have other events planned for them. They will be having a Senior dinner, which she hopes will become a tradition as a special night. ,_ Mrs. Marra looks forward to'-a rise in the· school spirit. She remembers the days when the hockey gam~s were of the ut- most importance during winter term. Groups of students would gather in one section and ring a cow bell, wliich in turn had the entire Union side cheering for the team. Attempts have been made to recapture this feeling. For one thing, the school has been trying to get a band together for the games. The cheerleaders have done a great joo in retaining en- thusiasm towards Union. Mrs. Marra recalls when P.M. magazine did a special on the cheerleaders. Apparently, the correlation between school spirit and athletic teams is not to be neglected. Although the head of spirit here remains in the heart of Mrs. Marra herself. tivities. The social alternatives coiilillittee has been terrific about increasing activities, and Mrs. Marra hopes that students will begin taking advantage of things such as the board games il)..th.~,Ske!Jar. Slte I:I~.Pegqn,q. pnb~tclz~. ~v~nts.m tp~ qorms,,,iil an attempt to get everyone involved.13asically, 1\{rs. Marra i.s convinced that there is a lot of stagnant talent waiting to be discovered in students all over campus, She feels a lot of people have something special to offer, but for whatever reason are not taking the first step. Two inspirational stories carne to Mrs. Marra's mind during the interview. She began with one dating back to 1967. A student who ran W.R. U.C. was experiencing a dying radio station. With encouragement by tbe lady herself, this student work:ed to keep W..R;U.C. alive and now he owns 23 radio stations. Mrs. Marra's en~ C()Uragement was not forgotten and. he honored her with a plaque in the arts bt1ildine:. Contin1ted on page 7 News Report-- ceremony with \Dallas\ stars, played polo in Florida, and ate lunch with oil refiners in Texas. A bit weary after his travels, he was seen leaving Gravel Gerties after .a couple of \Genesee Creamers.\ Well, that's it for world news this week. Have a good break and remember: An apple a day keeps \Baby Doc'' away. t .

t . CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 Page7 FEATURES 30 Years of Change Continued from p~ge 5 dining halls at dinner, and Union gave up its requirement. As usual the Concordy spoke strongly on the issue. Many may be puzzled as to the reasons for discriminating against blue Levi's. Could it be that the college owns stock in other companies? Or perhaps research has demonstrated that -this color inhibits the produc- tion of gastric juices. We cer- tainly hope that the Levi- Strauss organization is not the victim of anti:.Semitism. May4, 1961 Looking backward from the vantage point of the eighties, the.issue of how the Collge, in its formal and social life, came to accept the existence of alcohol in its . various forms is in- teresting. The question of what the undergraduates did with liquor in th~ small hours of the night is a relatea one. I suppose that the early standards of decorum stemmed from the str.ong Dutch Refor- med and Presbyterian background of the College; but in any event during the late forties, formal college functions were strictly ''dry~'' The question of whether one might serve small glasses of sherry .was approached carefully, and this generally was sanctioned only for special affairs. In matters such as under discussion, there are few hard facts, and one must deal at the level of general impression. The appearance of drugs on campus was thought to have been ac- companied _ bY . ·a rnark~d decrease in the consumption of alcohol. ·I suspect that this was true. As of the early eighties, there is good reason to believe that some waning of the drug cult has been accompanied by a gradual return to alcohol, and this has generally been ac- companied by a feeling of relief. Probably it is correct to say that hard drinking is not a major problem on the campus at present, even though so many undergraduates find comfort in walking about the campus with an open beer can in hand, and freshmen, after three beers, still stand in the middle of Libfary Field at three in the . morning bellowing like male moose at the height of the mating season. In any event, by . the mid-seventies, all prohibitions dealing with liquor at undergraduate parties had . disappeared. This seems to have happened more by un- spoken acceptance rather than administrative decree. In sum, the pattern that emerges from several of theSe observations is that over the years with which we are con- cerned~ ihe College gradually moved away from a sort of parental control of students in the direction of a policy that gave the students more and~ more freedom to control their own academic and social af- fairs. The elimination of parietal rules in the dor- mitories, the decision to let the student decide whether or not to attend classes, and the removal of the rules about eligibility are Salvage The Skellar. all cases in point. As a casual agent in these cbanges, one is reminded ·of the spirit of the sixties w~ic-h argued for freedom fr()m .any kind of restraint, ltlld the insistence thatthe·collegestudent be given all the freedoms. adults enjoy. In little JIL<ll\e than a decade, Union will be moving into the third centtn·y of its existence. What changes: will take place between no~ and then are a matter for S[)eculation, but if one may extrapolate from the current sce!l.e, probably the size of the CollegE ~ill remain about what it is t()tlay, while the quality of its ,[)hysical plant and the richness ()f its curricular offerings will reveal a slow but steady growtll. This picture of relative tranquility may, tof course, be VEry wrong. Who for example, -would have predicted the wild events of the sixties? AA inside look atconstruct.ion at Carnegie; our socialli·fe at the Pub will never be the same. Student Activities ·Continue Much of the change will be determined by the wisdom that goes into lo11g-range planning, the current Strnunum bonum of the academiC! community. Exalted by many and regarded with a jaUJ1diced eye by a few, such planning for the future engages thE best and most earnest of minds. That it may have a critieal role is suggested by an evo«!a\tive story from another coltege, and with this tale one comes to the end of this account of thirty years in the life of Union College. \ Continued from page 6 Another student, Kate White, was encouraged to enter a contest sponsored by Glamour Magazine for the top ten college women. Ms. White's extensive activitees led her to the cover of the magazine (a place held by the most prestigious of all fashion models), and eventaUlly to a top editorial position with Mademoiselle Magazine. Kate also feels indebted to Mrs. Marra, and still keeps in touch. These ate examples of the importance college activities play in o_n_e's life. Mrs. Marra cannot stress enough the pleasure she _peceives working with the students. She admires their respect and enthusiasm. The packed Cabarets, and the ef- forts made by certain students show that Union is not dormant in the winter. Other aspects that she would like to see grow are: more stu.dent dances, and greater activitity in the Mountebanks-and generally more students becoming in- volved. Union does have a lot to offer. ·Mrs. Marra is one of the most dynamic people I have ever been in contact with. I am convinced that with her help any feasible activity could come to life. HopefUlly, this assertion will be challenged byua once apathetic student. Although it appears impossible that Mrs. Marra could handle any more work, it's doubtful that anything would make her happier than to see every student involved with one facet of the \other side of college'' at Union. The Rathskel/ar: ''We're just not what we used to he.'' Spring term we will be serving breakfast. ' Students interested in working__Jhese hours (M-Fri. 7:00-11: 00) pleas.e stop in, leave your name,#, a.nd da.vs/hours you can work. We are also taking requests for our lunch, dinner, evening shifts. • BIG IRIJTHERI-8/fJ liSTERS (;) ollcllenedU, CNniJ PIZZA NIGHT All Big Brothers/Big Sisters and Prospective Volunteers are invited to a p.izza party on Tuesday, March 11.., at 6:30p.m. inHale House, lower lounge. There will be lots of pizza and refreshments. It is a time ·for all the Big Brothers/Big Sisters and prospe.ctive volunteers to socialize and meet other Bigs at \Jilion, and learn more aboutthe program. This is.l'lot for Little Brothers or Little Sisters! Pleas.~ call the Big Brothers/Big Sisters office and letthem know you are coming. (374-4523) , '!' !- r I I F\HONES: 372-7270 370-373!5 HOME STYLE PIZZA I\E:ATURING ORDERS TO TAKE OUT COR. UNION STRE:ET 6 VAN ANTWERF RO. SCHEN£C,.AOY. N.Y.

PageS Foundtd at ( ln1on Coll~e 1877 ------~---- ~--~-- \Re\ Evaluations As the term comes to a close, an inevitable part of Union College is fast approaching: course evaluations. You know, those little yellow sheets that we fiU out in 30 seconds so we can leave class ten minutes early. A big problem exists in the fact that, all too often, students really do not take these evaluations seriously. But, these seemingly (from students' points of view) insignificant pieces of yellow paper really are important. Course evaluations help to determine what courses are worth continuing and which ones should be cancelled. · They also assist tenure committees in determining the performance of a professor. And, more importantly, they can allow a professor to get some ideas about their teaching techniques and how effective they really are. So, when you're asked \What are the major strengths of the instructor?\don't simply say \His clothes.\ Write down those strengths. And, when you're asked \What are the major weaknesses of the instructor?\ Write down those as well. Your com- ments can help to improve the qualilty of your education. - These evaluations do serve a purpose here. So, this time take them seriously. Questions You would think that people would learn from their mistakes. So we have to ask Food Services some questions-: At the beginning of this term, the bar at the Skellar was sawed in half, as if we didn't know that we couldn't drink there any more. This was your first mistake and it hurt our morale. Why did you cut the bar in half? Then, you engaged in an advertising campaign to change our image of what the Skellar is and how great it is going to be. All around us we see signs in big block letters: QUESTIONS. The Skellar-It's Not For Beer Alone or The Rathskellar: \We're just not what we used to be.'' Not only was this an excessive waste of paper in that we had to see the word QUESTIONS all over campus, it was a wasted advertising effort. You see, we come to the Skellar if the food and atmosphere are desirable, not because of some advertising scheme. · Also, we know that the Skellar doesn't serve beer any more and that it's just not what it used to be. Your ads don't have to tell us that and that won't make us come to the Skellar. Why did you waste so m.uch ti!Qe making these silly ads? Then, the most colossal folly in Skellar history: a labyrinth of white picket fences to force students to zoom around the outside in order to get their food. This system of hurdles, jails, or whatever you want to call them simply serves no purpose and doesn't justify closing the Skellar for a whole week in order to renovate. If this was intended to make sure we pay for our food, well, then that offends our intelligence. So, why did you build these fences? . . . CONCfJRDfENSJS,·March 6,1986 . ,. LETTERS Great to be American Dear Editor: This past week was a great one to be American-like one that we have not enjoyed for a very long time. During this past week we saw the conservative President Ronald Reagan lead the US to come out .for an im· portant American principle: the importance for people to choose their government freely and democraticly. Certainly the foreign policy decisions that · were arrived at by Reagan and his White House councils were not easy ones; for it took courage to abandon the ally we had in Marcos. This brave action broke with the long standing tradition of bolstering figureheads of democracy in foreign lands, wh() were all but universally hated by their own citizenry. The tragic and upsetting irony of our policy of aiding these figureheads in general, is illustrated best by our inability to achieve the two fundamental goals of American foreign policy: meeting the communist challenge abroad, and in- stitutionalizing freedom for the people of the countries to whom we are giving aid. We have seen in the recent examples of the Shah of Iran, and General Samoza of Nicaragua, that prioritizing the first goal-· avoiding communism--and thinking that the second-- institutionalizing freedoms-will arise with the grant of our aid, is a fallacy. Rather, more often than not, the causality runs the other way: that freedom for people is truly the last, · best defense against commWiism. Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos' looting of their coun- try's wealth-estimates range between three and eight billion dollars over their twentyayear career-has left that pacific nation as one of the world's leading debtors. While it is to . this Administration's credit that they have finally recognized the FiHpionos cries for a just government, frankly, it was a call they should have answered long ago. Many p()liticians and generals. still maintain, however, that our Naval bases near Manila require that we move cautiously in the Philippines. Yet, it seems clear that we do the security of o11r bases, and the stability of that nation, no service by s11pporting leaders that are hated in their own country. Having watched coverage of the election polls we saw Aqu111o supporters with \People Power\ banners, holding hands to defend the poll sites; jux- taposed against some Marcos' supporters with ski masks and rifles. (Someone-it seems, had a serious campaign PR problem). One would, ,under the old policy, tend to assume that those persons carrying signs that bore \People Power\ were commWiists, and those toting the guns were our own capitalist \defenders of liberty\. Not true. In this instance, we were on the side of those who wanted power for the people and the only ones that have recognized Marcos' \victory\ at the polls were, the Soviets. Clearly; the lesson we should gain is that the Russians deal in human misery, without which they cannot sell their program. For the better part of twenty years, Marcos- unknowingly- was their best salesman. We should: see that a people with a realizable recourse to elect and effect changes in their government is both the Soviet's worst night- mare, and the cornerstone on which our country was founded. Having talked a bit about both the past and present American foreign policy, it seems best now to address o11rselves to our rather uncertain future; specifically, in reference to our relations with the white racist government of South Africa. In the Philippines we have true example a policy of con- structive engagement, a policy thatpressured Marcos to justify his presidency with a popular vote. Hopefully, this plan of beating commWiisrn with self- determining and voting people will prove to be a better ap- proach than guns and military aid, especially when that aid is so often used to repress-as opposed to defend-a people. We think it is a better hedge against communism to have a citize11ry in South Africa that can call their government their own. Should the Philippines, over the coming weeks, prove our suspicions correct, we would ask those who now ·support a sit and wait (and judge) policy t()watds South Africa, to pressu1e Botha for a vote. Just think: if their past endorsements are any in- dication of their future actions, we would venture to bet that the Soviets would come out · four square behind both Botha, and his government of mf~~ry. Sincerely, Scott Webster Eric Lipman ''Hazed'' Student Speaks Out To the Editor: After reading the article on ZBT's hazing activities, I felt encouraged to step forward and admit that I too was hazed. It was sometime in fall term 1984. I was forced to stand in a very enclosed spot with my entire \pledge\ class for ap- proximately 3lf2 hours. All I remember is how cold it was, but yet I could not leave for if I did I would have to suffer for it. So, I stood there, hardly able to move except for my shivering. I All LeHers to the Editor must be typed double-spaced ~nd submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All leHers must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the . leHer. Names normally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect . leHers that are libelous or tlo not conform to standards of good taste. didn't think it could get any worse, but just then, one of the \brothers\ said go, and we all had to rush into a larger room· through a small entrance. In the chaos some of us were hurt. One pledge even broke his collar bone. I luckily escaped injury, but I will never forget winter pre-registration Hl85. Steven Menchel ) .

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 ~DDfPfbifttSis LETTERS Fo~U~fkd at Umon CollqJe 187-:' ----~------ -------- \Re\ Evaluations As the term comes to a close, an inevitable part of Union College is fast approaching: course evaluations. You know, those little yellow sheets that we fill oat in 30 seconds so we can leave class ten minutes early. A big problem exists in the fact that, all too often, students !\eally do not take these evaluations seriously. But, these seemingly (from students' points of view) insignificant pieces of yellow paper really are important. Course evaluations help to determine what courses are worth continuing and which ones should be cancelled. They also assist tenure committees in determining the performance of a professor. And, more importantly, they can allow a professor to get some ideas about their teaching techniques and how effective they really are. So, when you're asked \What are the major strengths of the instructor?\ don't simply say \His clothes.\ Write down those strengths. And, when you're asked \What are the major weaknesses of the instructor?\ Write down those as well. Your com- ments can help to improve the qualilty of your education. These evaluations do serve a purpose here. So, this time take them seriously. Questions You would think that people would learn from their mistakes. So we have to ask Food Services some questions·; At the beginning of this term, the bar at the Skellar was sawed in half, as if we didn't know that we couldn't drink there any more. This was your first mistake and it hurt our morale. Why did yoa cut the bar in half? Then, you engaged in an advertising campaign to change our image of what the Skellar is and how great it is going to be. All around us we see signs in big block letter-s: QUESTIONS. The Skellar-It's Not For Beer Alone or The Rathskellar: \We're just not what we used to be.'' Not only was this an excessive waste of paper in that we had to see the word QUESTIONS all over campus, it was a wasted advertising effort. You see, we come to the Skellar if the food and atmosphere are desirable, not because of some advertising scheme. Also, we know that the Skellar doesn't serve beer any more and that it's just not what it used to be. Your ads don't have to tell us that and that won't make us come to the Sk:ellar. Why did you waste so much time making these silly ads? Then, the most colossal folly in Skellar history: a labyrinth Ctf white picket fences to force students to zoom around the outside in order to get their food. This system of hurdles, jails, or whatever you want to call them simply serves no purpose and doesn't justify cl()sing the Skellar for a whole week in order to renovate. If this was intended to make sure we pay for our food, well, then that offends our intelligence. So, why did you build these fences? Great to be American Dear EdttGr: This past week was a great one to be American-like one that we have not enjoyed for a very long time. During this past week we saw the conservative President Ronald Reagan lead the US to come out for an im- portant American principle: the importance for people to choose their government freely and democraticly. Certainly the foreign policy decisions that were arrived at by Reagan and his White House councils were not easy ones; for it took courage to abandon the ally we had in Marcos. This brave action broke with the long standing tradition of bolstering figureheads of democracy in foreign lands, who were all but universally hated by their own citizenry. The tragic and upsetting irony of our policy of aiding these figureheads in general, is illustrated best by our inability to achieve the two fundamental goals of American foreign policy: meeting the communist challenge abroad, and in, stitutionalizing freedom for the people of the countries to whom we are giving aid. We have seen in the recent examples of the Shah of Iran, and General Samoza of Nicaragua, that prioritizing the first goal-- avoiding communism--and thinking that the second-- institutionalizing freedoms--wUl arise with the grant of our aid, is a fallacy. Rather, more often than not, the causality runs the other way: that freedom for people is truly the last, best defense against communism. Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos' looting of their coun- try's wealth-estimates range between three and eight billion dolla·rs over their twenty-year career-has left that pacific nation as one of the world's leading debtors. While it is to this Administration's credit that they have finally recognized the Filipionos cries for a just government, frankly, it was a call they should have answered long ago. Many politicians and generals still maintain, however, that our Naval bases near Manila require that we move cautiously in the Philippines. Yet, it seems clear that we do the security of our bases, and the stability of that nation, no service by supporting leaders that are hated in their own country. Having watched coverage .of the election polls we saw Aqu1no supporters with \People Power'' banners, holding hands to defend the poll sites; jux- taposed against some Marcos' supporters with ski masks and rifles. (Someone-it seems, had a serious campaign PR problem). One would, under the old policy, tend to assume that those persons carrying signs that bore \People Power\ were communists, and those toting the guns were our own capitalist \defenders of liberty\. Not true. In this instance, we were on the side of those who wanted power for the people and the only ones that have recognized Marcos' \victory\ at the polls were, the Soviets. Clearly, the lesson we should gain is that the Russians deal in human misery, without which they cannot sell their program. For the better part of twenty years, Marcos- unknowingly- was their best salesman. We should see that a people with a realizable recourse to elect and effect changes in their g@vernment is both the Soviet's worst night- mare, and the cornerstone· on which our country was founded. Having talked a bit about both the past and present American foreign policy, it seems best now to address ourselves to our rather uncertain future; specifically, in reference to our relations with the white racist government of South Africa. In the PhHippines we have true example a policy of con- structive engagement, a policy that pressured Marcos to justify his presidency with a popular vote. Hopefully, this plan of beating communism with self- determining and voting people will prove to be a better ap- proach than guns and military aid, especially when that aid is so often used to repress-as opposed to defend-a people. We think it is a better hedge against communism to have a citizenry in South Africa that can call their government their own. Should the Philippines, over the coming weeks, prove our suspicions correct, we would ask those who now support a sit and wait (and judge) policy towards South Africa, to pressure Botha for a vote. Just think: if their past endorsements are any in- dication of their future actions, we would venture to bet that the Soviets would come out four square behind both Botha, and his government of misery. Sincerely, Scott Webster Eric Lipman ''Hazed'' Student Speaks Out To the Editor: After reading the article on ZBT's hazing activities, I felt encouraged to step forward and admit that I too was hazed. It was sometime in fall term 1984. I was forced to stand in a very enclosed spot with my entire \pledge\ class for ap- proximately 3Y2 hours. All I remember is how cold it was, but yet I could not leave for if I did I would have to suffer for it. So, I stood there, hardly able to move except for my shivering. I All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submiHed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All leHers must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reiect letters that are libelous or do not conform to standards of good taste. didn't think it could get any worse, but just then, one of the \brothers\ said go, and we all had to rush into a larger room· through a small entrance. In the chaos some of us were hurt. One pledge even broke his collar bone. I luckily escaped injury, but I will never forget winter pre-registration 1985. Steven Menchel Editors-in..Chief, Sarah Calderini, Jay Grossman News Editors David Marin, Linda Raffaele Associate News Editor David Gulliver Features Editors Mickey Bradley, LeeAnn Schmidt Coiillllentary Page Editors . Greg Fay,.StuartSands Arts Editors . Kimberly Hancock, Penni Morganstern Campus Page Editors Lisa Marzilli, Wendy Z~er~ Sports Editors Doug qoyd, Charlie Slotnik AssociateSportsEditor . Jim Solomon Advertising E~tors Debbie Rose, EllenSlipp,,Lauren Sobel Assoc. Adv. Editor JamceGrossman Business Managers Keith Conklin, Bob Koch Photo Editor Dave. Gruber Sports Photo Editor Stuart Odell Subscription Editor Bill Fenstermaker Staff:. Jan Baran, Erie Feingold, Maureen Coleman, Michael Glass, Ben Haftel, Adam Helfand, Andy Hodgkin, Marjorie Hoffer, Christie Hong, Brian Kelly, Jane Kissel, Steve Konlian, Beth Levine, Cathy Markes, Joanne MtAndrews, Pat Merritt, Kelley Park, Nick Piccirillo, Howie Podolsky, Joy Runyon, Paul Schop.,· Evart Shack, Laura Shapiro, Conrad Tatge, Amy Walsh. CONCORDIENSJS . is published every Thursday by the liltud'ent body of Union College, Schenectady, New ·York 12308;. Publications Office: Susquehanna Publications, Inc., Sox 383f Sidney, New York 13838, (607) 563-3526. Subscription rate::. $24 per yearfdelivered anywhere in the United States. CONCORDIENSl$ subscribes to the College Press Service (CPS) and American College Syndicate. . Office Telephone--(518)37()..6155 .; I t '' ! ' ..

Personal Liberty at Stake To the Editor: - The S:(Jeaker' s Foniiil, h~ving treated us to a diet d con- troversial ideas from Jlbyliss Schlafly, on the evening that this newspaper goes. t() p-:r,ess; it seems only fair that a sta.tement of some sort should be ma.de· so as to put her ideas in contExt. All the better, were that Jlerson, to claint to the same .political labels as She; as traditionally, Mrs. Sc:hlafly's opponents h.ave been found mostly O()JD the ranks of the \liberal feminists.\ Since she and I both are .self- proclaimed conservatives, €lnd Republicans, I have takEn it upon myself to forward S()me remarks on her phHoscr-hy <lnd work. I have always though.tthat the greatest moral claim bel'lind \conservatism'' of any str-ipe has nothing to clo with preserving the status qll()-no, even many on the New- Eight have rejected this--but -ratller it is that free people sh()lll<l have the power to make indEpendent choices and decisions. 'llne itJ.ea that men and women ar-e h()rn free, and should rern<liiJ, so throughout their lives, Is the conservative credo tllat llas found its expression in the contemporary doctriBe~: of limited government, staies rights, and personal auton()rny. Thus, governments, in- stitutions, and even pCJliti.cal personalities, that ~clv~nce encroaching on inrlhi.dtial rights, should thEll, be denounced (if not the :ge11eral public, at least) by- C()n- servatives. In Mrs. Schlafly's book Tile Power l)f tiie Positive Wo:ll).~, she set out a checklist of g()als that she is confident vvo11Ld \restore\ America, were they only to be enacted. In rnp view, her restoration is a 111·ogram that would underminE tllis country by tearing at the fallric of personal liberty. 1 ask Concordiensis readers b think about what would happen to individual decision-maldng if we. were to elevate, in her wor<ls: 1.) The .right Qf a woman to be a full-time wife and mother and to have that right recognized by laws that obligate her husband to primary finanCial support and a horne for her and her children. 2.) The rjght of parents to insist that the schools teach the \fourth R,\ right and wrong, according to the precepts of the Holy Scriptures. 3.) (The right to proscribe) the use of textbooks in schools that honor ·the family, rnono.garnous marriage, women's role as wife and mother, and the man's role as protector and provider. 4.) The right to defend the institution of the family by according certain rights to husbands.and wives that are not given to those choosing im- moral lifestyles. To the extent that she would tacitly, through the enactment of her program, sanction the segregation of American society: husband from wife, Christian from non-believer, married person from single parent, and heterosexual from gay, her ideas seem decidedly un-American. To the degree that she would accord certain rights and station to those fit- .· ting certain moral criteria, regardless of the free choices persons had made, her views are decidedly \non- conservative.\ In closing, I would remind readers that this nation was founded on the idea of personal liberty-and it was liberty that was secured by the separation of rights and priveleges we have as citizens from any con- sideration of religion or state sponsored morality. To turn our backs on that tradition of freedom, whether we are liberal or conservative, is to do nothing less ·than renounce our American birthright. Sincerely, Eric Lipman A Positive Picture? To the Editor: On Tuesday evening, !lfarch 4, the Union College '\V()men's Network passed out the following leaflet at the led;ure given by Phyllis Schl~fly-. We find her ideas an insult to booth women and men. So tllat even those who did not attencl ller lecture can be exposed to iler dangerous, backward view~, we ask that you print tlle:se ex- cerpts kom her book 'lbe :rower of the Positive Womaa rn y()Ur paper, Schlafiy and her vie\ ofthe ''Positive Wontan '' Mrs. Scltlafly on Eelation- ships: ''A satisfyiiJg and supporting relationship e~n last through the years only if:sbe is willing . to give him the .ap-. predation and admiration his manhood craves.\ · Mrs. Schlafly on . College Educatioll ~ \The worst thing that .. , a woman can do is take a \Woman's Studies\ or S()me other sociology course in college, some of these .c:()ur·:ses should be called \How to ~reak Up a Marriage\ ... Sile sb()uld scrupulously avoid ''Vlome:n's Studies\ and related C()Ul'SES as a psychological l.\'ed~I·ight district where fundamental values are exchanged for fleeting stimulants at an exhorbitant price.\ Mrs. Scblafly on Women and Abstract Thinking: \Men are philosophers, women are practical, and 'twas ever thus. Men may philosophize about how life began and where we are heading; women are con- cerned about feeding the kids today. Mrs. Sclllafly on Security: \are looking for security- emotional, social, financial? Nothing in this world is sure except -death and taxes, but marriage andmotherhood are the most reliable security that the world can offer.\ Mrs. S.ciilafly on Sexual Desire: \The positive Woman recognizes the fact that, when it comes to sex, women are simply not the equal of men. The sexual desire of men is much stronger than that of wQmen.\ Mrs. S()IIlafly on Housework: \The flight from .the horne is a flight from yourself, from responsibility, from the nature of woman, in pursuit of false hopes and fading illusions.\ Think about it: Is this picture of women really positive? Women's Network Fraternity Appreciates To the Editor-: The brothers of the De~lt~ Chi Fraternity would like to elrtEnd their gratitu<le to all tho~e who attended and donated t() their Charity Cabaret. With your help we rasied $300 for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. Thank you, The Delta Chi Fraternity '~ ~· _, . :.. '•• ·:.. ,... ._. .~. • I - CONCORDIENSIS, March 6; 1986 Page9 ··- LETTERS Students Urged to Speak Out To the Editor: For the past few weeks I have been trying to decide which way I should go in the Gel-time proposal. As a freshman, this is the first time I have heard of Gel-time. Consulting the Concordiensis and asking different professors and students, I have found out what Gel-time is but still have not decided which way to go mainly because many of the students are against it. I think, along with others, that many of the students who voiced their opinion in the paper do not know what they are talking about. For example, one said, \ ... can you imagine one hour and forty minutes of calculus at nine o'clock?\ This statement is ridiculous. Calculus, along with science, eng·ineering and foreign language classes would only be for sixty-five minutes on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The classes which will meet on Tuesday and Thursday are the Social Sciences and Humanities which will meet for one hundred minutes, ten minutes shorter' than if you had the two fifty-minute class. Some classes can meet on any of the days such as psychology, computer science, etc. Obviously this schedule of classes is not concrete. As usual, the schedule of the classes would be determined by the professors and their respective-departments. But, as you can see, even the \longer\ classes on Tuesday and Thursday does not even equal the \one hundred forty minute calculus class.\ Many also complained about losing the mid-week weekend. A To the Editor: The issue of gel-time is currently one of the students' major concerns. Unfortunately, students feel that the Student Forum has not actively pursued this issue, but this is incorrect. I would like to explain what the Student Forum has done so far, what we are planning to do, and why. Initially, we, on the Student Forum, were told that the \dry rlin\ for gel-time was suc- cessful and that it was going to be put to the faculty for a vote. At that time, all the Student Forum had with respect to students' feelings on the issue was the poll_ taken last year, which showed that the students were against the gel-time proposal by an 8: 1 ratio. However, while the poll showed that students were against the proposal, the Academic Affairs Council (AAC) refused to ac- cept a simple \no we don't like it\ for an answer and demanded specific reasons why students were against it. When the issue was· brought up again this year, the Student Forum was .given two weeks few students I asked said, \Yes we would lose the mid-week weekend, and every stt:tdent would have ·classes every day.\ This is not so because if a student really wanted days off during the week they could schedule their classes MWF and have TTh off and vice-versa. Another argument against Gel-time is the inflexibility of the schedule. One said they did not want it because they played sports. If they played sports, chances are they would want Gel-time even more than others. Let's take an extreme case. Say that you had to take a class in the afternoon from 1 : 30- 2:20 for four days a week. Say you also had practice every day in the afternoon. This means you would only have one day to practice per week. With Gel- time even if yo-u had to schedule the class in the afternoon, you would have three days to practice instead. This is not that much better but I did take the scenario to extremes. In essence, what is being said is that there is more flexibility in the schedules. As I figured, the schedules will probably look like this: ' MWF- TTh- 9:00-10:05 10:15-11:25 11:35-12:40 12:50- 1:55 2:05- 3:10 3:20- 4:25 9:00-Ui:40 two hour break 12:50- 2:30 2:40- 4:20 By the way I have stated my . viewpoint on the proposal, it looks as if I am for Gel-time. As of this moment I have not decided because I am waiting for concrete arguments against Gel-time. The only solid until the faculty were \sup- posedly\ going to vote on the implementation of gel-time. During that two weeks the Forum had to: (1) introduce, for the first time, the gel-time proposal to the freshman class, and (2) find out the reasons that students were so strongly against the proposal. As we quickly found out, two weeks was not enough time to ac- complish both of the above- mentioned tasks. At that time, we asked the AAC to reverse its decision to implement gel-time, and we also began a lobby effort to convince the faculty to postpone the implementation of gel-time. we advocated post- ponement at that time because we needed more time to strengthen our argument against gel-time and to incorporate student opinion. In addition, we felt that immediate implementation of gel-time wo~d be undewirable because it would undoubtedly contain some unforseen problems, and in light of the current problems on campus, more problems are the last thing we need. In the meantime, much to our surprise, the vote on gel-time argument brought up by students so far is that of the math classes, and foreign language classes which should meet five days a week. I think what it comes down to is that students are more worried about is losing the Tuesday night party night. As suggested l:)y one faculty member students are better off making a strong argument on why they should keep their Tuesday night party night rather than make weak arguments on everything else. If the students carry this off well they they might be able to keep their party night. Even if the students do make a strong argument on why they should keep the party night the ad- ministration would still not be flexible in their decision as they are with other issues. It seems that the administration, in this case, does not care about the student opinion. As suggested by a faculty member, the faculty should vote on it now and have it go into effect in one or two years when everything has settled down. By this I mean that, the con- struction is finished on campus and the whole campus is settled. I think that the only way th.is proposal can work if it does go into effect is if the school brings it into effect gradually, not when the school has other problems to worry about and the tension is high. I am hoping the students, if they really put their hearts into it, can come up with a few concrete reasons why they are against Gel-time. If they don't, then they might as well soon get used to the Gel-time proposal. Respectively, Richard Aguinaldo has not been placed on the agenda for the February faculty meeting (as we were ori.Qinally told it would be), and it is not scheduled for the March faculty meeting either. Now that we have time before the vote will be taken, we are urging YOU-the students-to re- examine the proposal for gel· time and then submit to the Student Forum your specific complaints and reasons why you think it is a bad proposal. Remember, a simple \We don't like it\ is not sufficient. Bring your complaints to our next Student Forum meeting on Monday, March 10 at 7:30 p.m. \located on third floor of Old Chapel or talk to us in· dividually. We will present the students' position to the faculty at the appropriate faculty meeting (which is supposed to be in early April. Without your input it is impossible for us to represent you. Respectfully Submitted, Steven Moss Vice President for Administration Student Forum Thespians Offer -Good Alternative To the Editor: I would like to take this op- portunity to congratulate the cast of \The House of Bernarda Alba'' on a job well done. The performance was outstanding. The actresses involved displayed a great deal of talent in telling the story of a woman and her five daughters. The play which runs tonight through Saturday provided a great social alternative last weekend. It is highly recommended for this weekend! Sincerely, Rachel Siegel '37 Have a Safe Spring Break To the Editor: Florida Mothers Against Drunk Driving, MADD, hopes that this year's College Spring Break will be safe for everyone. Last year's tragedies included three students who fell to their deaths off hotel balconies and two others who were murdered hitchhiking to Florida. We sympathize with their parents because we understand the anguish of senseless loss. We want you to come to Florida to have good times and enjoy well-earned vacations. But please do not come to drive and drink or to use drugs. Spring Break· Make It Safe. Sincerely. Florida Mothers Against Drunk Driving Tom Carey, President

j ~ I '' ! t .. Personal Liberty at Stake To the Editor: The Speaker's Forum, having treated us to a diet of con- troversial ideas from Phyliss Schlafly, on tile evening that this newspaper goes to press; it seems only fair that a statement of some s0rt should be made so as to put her ideas in context. All the better, were that person, to claim to the same political labels as she; as traditionally, Mrs. Schlafly's opponents have been found mostly from the ranks of the \liberal feminists.\ Since she and I both are self- proclaimed conservatives, and Republicans, I have taken it upon myself to forward some rem.arks on her philosophy and WOI\k. I have always thought that the greatest moral claim behind \conservatism\ of any stripe has nothing to do with preserving the status quo-no, even many on the New Right have rejected this-but rather it is that free people should have the power to make independent choices and decisions. The idea that men and women are born free, and should remain so throughout their lives, is the conservative credo that has found its expression in the contemporary doctrines of limited government, states rights, and personal autonomy. Thus, governments, in- stitutions, and even political personalities, that advance encroaching on individual rights, should then, be denounced (if not the general public, at least) by con- servatives. In Mrs. Schlafly's book The Power of the Positive Woman, she set out a checklist of goals that she is confident would \I\estore\ America, were they only to be enacted. In my view, her restoration is a program that would undermine this country by tearing at the fabric of personal liberty, I ask Con~ordiensis readers to think about what would happen to individual decision-making if we were to elevate, in her words: 1.) The right of a woman to be a full-time wife and mother and to have that right recognized by laws that obligate her husband to prL\'lary financial support and a home for her and her children. 2.) The right of parents to insist that the schools teach the \fourth R,\ right and wrong, according to the precepts of the Holy Scriptures. 3.) (The right b proscribe) the use of textbooks in schools that honor the family, monogamous marriage, women's role as wife and mother, and the man's role as protector and provider. 4.) The right to defend the institution of the family by accordin.g certain rights to husbands and wives that are not given to those cheosing im· moral lllestyles. To the extent that she would tacitly, through the enactment of her program, sanction the segregation of American society: husband from wife, Christian from non-believer, married person from single parent, and heterosexual from gay, her ideas seem decidedly Wl-American. To the degree that she would accord certain rights and station to those fit- ting certain moral criteria, regardless of the free choices persons had made, her views are decidedly \non- conservative.\ In closing, I would remind readers that this nation was founded on the idea of personal liberty-and it was liberty that was secured by the separation of rights and priveleges we have as citizens from any con- sideration of religion or state sponsored morality. To turn our backs on that tradition of freedom, whether we are liberal or conservative, is to do nothing less ·than renounce our American birthright. Sincerely, Eric Lipman A Positive Picture? To the Editor: On Tuesday evening, March 4, the Union College Women's Network passed out the following leaflet at the lecture given by Phyllis Schlafly. We find her ideas an insult to both women and men. So that even those who did not attend her lecture can be exposed to her dangerous, backward views, we ask that you print these ex- cerpts from her book The Power of the Positive Woman in your paper. Schlafly and her view of the \Positive Woman\ Mrs. Schlafly on Relation- ships: ''A satisfying and supporting relationship can last through the years only if she is willing to give him the ap-. p!\eciation and admiration his manhood craves.\ Mrs. Schlafly on College Education: \The worst thing that ... a woman can do is take a \Woman's Studies\ or some other sociology c0urse in college, some of these courses should be called \How to Break Up a Marriage\ ... She should scrupulously avoid \Women's Studies\ and related courses as a psychological red-light district where fundamental values are exchanged for fleeting stimulants at an exhorbitant price.\ Mrs. Schlafly on Women and Abstract Thinking: \Men are philosophers, women are practical, and 'twas ever thus. Men may philosophize about how life began and where we are heading; women are con- cerned about feeding the kids today. Mrs. Schlafly ()D Security: \are looking for security- emotional, social, financial? Nothing in this world is sure except death and taxes, but marriage andmotherhood are the most reliable security that the world can offer.\ Mrs. Schlafly on Sexual Desire: \The positive Woman recognizes the fact that, when it comes to sex, women are simply not the equal of men. The sexual desire of men is much stronger than that of women.\ Mrs. Schlafly on Housework: \The flight from the home is a flight from yourself, from responsibility, from the nature of woman, in pursuit of false hopes and fading illusions.\ Think about it: Is this picture of women really positive? Women's Network Fraternity Appreciates To the Editor: The brothers of the Delta Chi Fraternity would like to extend their gratitude to all those who attended and donated to their Charity Cabaret. With your help we rasied $300 for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. Thank you, The Delta Chi Fraternity CONCORDIENSIS, Marcll6, 1986 Page9 LETTERS Students Urged to Speak Out To the Edifmr: For the past few weeks I have been trying to decide which way I should go in the GeHime proposal As a freshman, this is the first time I have heard of Gel-time. Consulting the Co11cordiensis and asking different professors and students, I have found out what Gel-time is but still have not decided which way to go mainly because many of the students are against it. Ithink, along with others, that many of the students who voiced their opinion in the paper do not know what they are talking about. For example, one said, \ ... can you imagine one hour and forty minutes of calculus at nine o'clock?\ This statement is ridiculous. Calculus, along with science, engineering and foreign language classes would only be fer sixty-five miButes on Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The classes which will meet on Tuesday and Thursday are the Social Sciences and Humanities which will meet for one hundred minutes, ten n~inutes shorter than if you had the two fifty-minute class. Some classes can meet on any of the days such as psychology, computer science, etc. Obviously this schedule of classes is not concrete. As usual, the schedule of the classes would be determined by the professors and their respective departments. But, as you can see, even the \longer\ classes on Tuesday and Thursday does not even equal the \one hundred forty minute calculus class.\ Many also complained about losing the mid-week weekend. A To the Editor: The issue of gel-time is currently one of the students' major concerns. Unfortunately, students feel that the Student Forum has not actively pursued this issue, but this is incorrect. I would like to explain what the Student Forum has done so far, what we are planning to do, and why. Initially, we, on the Student Forum, were told that the \dry rUll'' for gel-time was suc- cessful and that it was going to be put to the faculty for a vote. At that time, all the Student Forum had with respect to students' feelings on the issue was the poll taken last year, which showed that the students were against the gel-time proposal by an 8:1 ratio. However, while the poll showed that students were against the proposal, the Academic Affairs Council ( AAC) refused to ac- cept a simple \no we don't like it\ for an answer and demanded specific reasons why students were against it. When the issue was brought up again this year, the Student Forum was given two weeks few students I asked said, \Yes we would lose the mid-week weekend, and every student would have classes every day.\ This is not so because if a student really wanted days off during the week they could schedule thei<r classes MWF and have TTh off and vice-versa. Another argument against Gel-time is the inflexibility of the schedule. One said they did not want it because they played sp@rts. If they played sports, chances are they would want Gel-time even more than others. Let's take an extreme case. Say that you had to take a class in the afternoon from 1 :30- 2:20 for four days a week. Say you also had practice every day in the afternoon. This means you would only have one day to practice per week. With Gel- time even if you had to schedule the class in the afternoon, you would have three days to practice instead. This is not that much better but I did take the scenario to extremes. In essence, what is being said is that there is more flexibility in the schedules. As I figured, the schedules will probably look like this: MWF- TTh- 9:00-10:05 10:15-11:25 11:35-12:40 12:50- 1:55 2:05- 3:10 3:20- 4:25 9:00-10:40 two hour break 12:50- 2:30 2:40- 4:20 By the way I have stated my viewpoint on the proposal, it looks as if I am for Gel-time. As of this moment I have not decided because I am waiting for concrete arguments against Gel-time. The only solid until the faculty were \sup- posedly\ going to vote on the implementation of gel-time. During that two weeks the Forum had to: ( 1) introduce, for the first time, the gel-time proposal to the freshman class, and (2) find out the reasons that students were so strongly against the proposal. As we quickly found out, two weeks was not enough time to ac- complish both of the above- mentioned tasks. At that time, we asked the AAC to reverse its decision to implement gel-time, and we also began a lobby effort to convince the faculty to postpone the implementation of gel-time. We advocated post- ponement at that time because we needed more time to strengthen our argument against gel-time and to incorporate student opinion. In addition, we felt that immediate implementation of gel-time would be undewirable because it would undoubtedly contain some unforseen problems, and in light of the current problems on campus, more problems are the last thing we need. In the meantime, much to our surprise, the vote on gel-time argument brought up by students so far is that of the math classes and foreign language classes which should meet five days a week. I think what it comes down to is that students are more worried about is losing the Tuesday night party night. As suggested by one faculty member students are better off making a strong argument on why they should keep their Tuesday night party night rather than make weak arguments on everything else. If the students carry this off well they they might be able to keep their party night. Even if the students do make a strong argument on why they should keep the party night the ad- ministration would still not be flexible in their decision as they are with other issues. It seems that the administration, in this case, does not care about the student opinion. As suggested by a faculty member, the faculty should vote on it now and have it go into effect in one or two years when everything has settled down. By this I mean that, the con- struction is finished on campus and the whole campus is settled. I think that the only way this proposal can work if it does go into effect is if the school brings it into effect gradually, not when the school has other problems to worry about and the tension is high. I am hoping the students, if they really put their hearts into it, can come up with a few concrete reasons why they are against Gel-time. If they don't, then they might as well soon get used to the Gel-time proposal. Respectively, Richard Aguinaldo has not been placed on the agenda for the February faculty meeting (as we were or~~inally told it would be), and it is not scheduled for the March faculty meeting either. Now that we have time before the vote will be taken, we are urging YOU-the students-to re- examine the proposal for gel- time and then submit to the Student Forwn your specific complaints and reasons why you think it is a bad proposal. Remember, a simple \We don't like it\ is not sufficient. Bring your complaints to our next Student Forum meeting on Monday, March 10 at 7:30p.m. located on third floor of Old Chapel or talk to us in- dividually. We will present the students' position to the faculty at the appropriate faculty meeting (which is supposed to be in early April. Without your input it is impossible for us to represent you. Respectfully Submitted, Steven Moss Vice President for Administration Student Forum Thespians Offer Good Alternative To the Editor: I would like to take this op- portunity to congratulate the cast .of \The House of Bernarda Alba\ on a job well done. The performance was outstanding. The actresses involved displayed a great deal of talent in telling the story of a woman and her five daughters. The play which runs tonight through Saturday provided a great social alternative last weekend. It is highly recommended for this weekend! Sincerely, Rachel Siegel '87 Have a Safe Spring Break To the Editor: Florida Mothers Against Drunk Driving, MADD, hopes that this year's College Spring Break will be safe for everyone. Last year's tragedies included three students who fell to their deaths off hotel balconies and two others who were murdered hitchhiking to Florida. We sympathize with their parents because we understand the anguish of senseless loss. We want you to come to Florida to have good times and enjoy well-earned vacations. But please do not come to drive and drink or to use drugs. Spring Break - Make It Safe. Sincerely, Florida Mothers Against Drunk Driving Tom Carey, President

' ' Page 10 CONCOR_DlENSIS, March 6, 1986 LETTERS Skellar Workers Alienated To the Editor: The wrought iron cattle corrals installed in the Rathskellar this past Friday are being ·removed. Why? Bureaucratic ignorance. In the face of changing. school policy, it was deemed necessary to pacify anticipat.ed student outrage. It has come to the point where technology has been reversed and efficiency lost. There is no reason for Jan Gray to be patting herself on the back. So called improvements to this hallowed social gathering place and burger joint have been a perpetual challenge tQ try and fit a square peg in a round hole. Founded in 1948, with the help of Calvin Schmidt, the Rathskellar has been placed alongside the Nott Memorial as an historic campus landmark. As an institution in the Union College community, it has come to represent not . only an alternate eating establishment, but an important social alter- native as well. For many, the Skellar possesses certain fraternal qualities: a place to unwind and escape many of the codes of conduct and pressures imposed by college life. Any changes should be carefully evaluated before being im- plemented. As many seniors may remember, the renovation of Skellar floor and bar-counter were progressive im- provements. However, we must ask ourselves if recent attempts ''to keep interest\ in the Skellar alive\ are progressive im- provements or change for the sake of change, resulting in a waste of spending? For Example: -building a railing around the bar-counter area because students were not trusted to pay for their food. -cutting the bar-counter in half and playing musical chairs with the new and old equipment until they look like they fit. -purchasing a pizza oven which did not fit behind the counter, as planned, because only 1 a two-dimensional measurement was taken. -placement of the pizza oven in another part of the Skellar, only to lead to the removal of the foosball table due to lack of space. -replacing the large milk dispenser for shakes with half- pint cartons. -and removing the Bud- weiser clock (the Skellar's only clock) because it was a reminder of what we no longer have; and still after eight we.eks not finding a replacement (a Coca-Cola clock would suffice). We, as Skellar employees, feel these are some of the recent changes that have alienated us from our work environment, and complicated the aesthetic, comfortable atmosphere in which students could eat, socialize and study together. A worker develops a loyalty to and a sense of pride in the Skellar after having worked there, as do those who patronize it. These recent developments. have contributed only to threatening this spirit. As students, we are led to believe these changes are being made in our best interest, but have student workers or patro)ls been consulted regarding these changes? No. These alterations are moving in a direction to depersonalize the Skellar and turn it into a commerCial operation, easily found off campus. These rushed plans, which have kept the Skellar closed many more days than necessary, seem only to involve short term concerns and have resulted in a ·sloppy looking food service area. We are not op- posed to diversification of food items and increased em- ployment, but an effort to establish order and organization. has so fat ended in chaos and confusion for all involved. We are not crying over spilt beer. The change in the alcohol policy should not have-an effect on a student's conception of the Skellar as a viable social outlet. A Skellar Rat \will always be a Skellar Rat. We who want to serve the best interests of the Rathskellar want to see progressive, carefully planned, long term improvements for what is an important institution in the Union College com- munity. Respectfully submitted (with the hope that these sentiments do not befall deaf ears, as they have in the past), The Skellar Workers A Personal Thanks To the readers: Since this is the final issue for this term, we would like to take at this time a moment to per- sonally thank our editors-in- chief, Sarah Calderini and Jay Grossman, our commentaries editors, Greg Fay and Stuart Sands and the entire staff of the Concordiensis for allowing us to use this paper as a platform from which we can express our views. Concordiensis has had a tradition of allowing the free expression of political ideas, and of allowing them to be debated once expressed. That is why I knew that the editorial board of the paper, whom we first approached in early January, would be willing to allow this paper to publish our views; regardless of their own opinions of them, in order to maintain this fine tradition. We have a great deal of respect for people who are professional enough to be able to place a commitment to such noble ideals as the free ex- pression of ideas and to have a commitment to their respon- sibility to publish a . newspaper that reflects the views of all students so that their first commitment can be executed. It has been an honor and a privilege to work with these people this term, and we are looking forward to four more terms of cooperation with them. Respectfully submitted, PaulSchop Brian Kelly Understand South Africa There have been many responses to my article ''An Apology to South Africa\ which appeared in the Concordiensis on January 23, 19116. Some may have agreed with my points while others have voiced their discontent. If I may, I would like to take the time now to underline the real problem that complicates the situation in South Africa. Upon rereading all the responses to the South Africa article I found one that was the most simple and underlines the point concerning this complex problem. Even the title was brilliant. That article was \Do Not Judge South Africa\ written by Scott Webster in the Concordiensis on February 20, 1986. It does not say anything about the problem in South Africa. It does not state an opinion nor a solution to the policy of Apartheid. It hits the underlying tact that people should not \Judge\ the situation in South Africa. Mr. Webster, no one in their right mind has the divine right to judge anyone or a problem, be it in a court of law, an operating room, or even on the football field. We as humans have taken it upon ourselves to distinguish between right and wrong, good and bad, sensible and im- practical. It is through these very judgements that breakthroughs in medicine, technology, and even hwnan 'relations have been made. The concept of judging rests with the beholder. He or she chooses to make an opinion based upon the facts and-or the societal upbringing that has \molded\ his or her well being. As humans we are not perfect. We strive every day to improve the environment that we live in. Those mistakes that we make today are the answers to the do's and don'ts of tomorrow. Throagh this very process of tri~l and error we can qualify the hypothesis that we pride ourselves in making every day. South Africa is an excellent case in which we should examine the facts, understand its history, admire its culture, and most of all do not determine its fut11re based upon what we as \Loud Americans'' (if I may) see fit for them to follow. But, we do have a responsibility to \assist\ in whatever way possible the development of equality in both the free and restricted worlds. Judge rnay not be the term that best describes this type of assistance. But until mankind stops from making uniformed, premature, and prejudicial decisions, those who quest for the truth through an extensive investigation of the situation will always feel obligated to go on record for what they have discovered is falso or preten- tious in the midst of mediocrity. Yes Mr. Webster, even if it means \to judge them,\' but only if you have the guts and patience to thorou.ghly in- vestigate the situation and suggest a solution that you as a mere human have the right and duty to express. Even you, Mr. Webster, have taken the time to voice your epinion on an article written on military assistance based upon aU those books (14 of them I believe you said) and thesis work that you have done over the years. May God condemn tne to hell if I ever become a \loud American\! Sincerely, Brian M. Kelly COMMENTARIES IN UNION/David Marin V.P. Misses the Point Vice President D'Andrea has quite accurately indicated in last week's Concordiensis in- terview that those of us who choose to argue a point ought first to have an understanding of the facts. I suggest that we apply this sound piec:;e of advice to Dr. D'Andrea's own arguments. Specifically, I call into question a view held by D'Andrea, and quite clearly by others within the ad- ministration, that students are exaggerating and over ... reacting to the current campus in- conveniences and issues because of an event beyond_the College's control, namely, the raised drinking age. What I am willing to concJde is that the issues may not have come into the limelight had the new drinking age law not been passed. I do not feel, however, that the law's impact on our social lives has in any way clo\lded our vision on Qther important issues before us as students. A much more realistic in- derstanding of the situation would suggest that the raising _ of the drinking age served as a catalyst to student awareness and reaction. That is, the frustration we feel as students has caused us to re-evaluate the impact of many pressing issues simply because we have been aroused, no doubt by the state's imposed law. One~ aroused as such, · however, I hardly believe that the sense of disregard and imposition felt by students is an outgrowth of the drinking law. Perhaps we never would have questioned the present policies of the Administration under different circumstances .. The fact' is, though, that we have come to question issues im- portant to us as students .... academic,.as well as social. To doubt our integrity as to the seriousness of our concern is to do the students a grave in- justice and should be · con- sidered nothing less than an insult. It is also to cast doubt on the very academic atmosphere we claim to uphold. Perhaps if issues were ad- dressed by administrators as legitimate concerns that need resolution rather than as in- correct arguments that need refutation, we could achieve what we all should want: a co.operative atmosphere in which the goals . of a small private college are outlined and attained as a community. Dr. D'Andrea's.rhetoric does not move us in that direction. Albany's Janus ByPAULSCHOP In Roman mythology, there was a god capable of facing in two directions at the sanie time. If that god were to be in- carnated today, he would greatly resemble Mario Cuomo. VVhy do I make such a statement? Because, when one examines Cuomo's record, he has done more than enough to earn this epithet. An exc::ellent example is the McGivern issue. In 1968, Gary McGivern, a man with a life-long history of committing violent crimes, committed first degree murder when he killed Westchester County D'eputy Sheriff. Fit- zgerald, a crime for which he was convicted of only felony murder, which is a much lower crime. Previously, he had been convicted of armed robbery, grand larceny, and the sale- possession of drugs, all of which are classified as violent felonies. He was about to begin a 10 to 20 year sentence for armed robbery at the time of the murder. If one were to listen to Cuomo's rhetoric over the last three years, one would .be convinced that a man who in 1983 said, \We all agree that a person who commits aggravated murder must be removed from society,\ and who has consistently advocated life without parole for mur- derers who knowingly kill p_olice officers in the line of duty since this date, would be opposed to granting a man such .as McGivern clemency, and would probably never even consider such an heretical act. However, Cuomo is not a predictable politician dedicated to a philosophy. He is Albany's Janus, and it is his second face that has reared its ugly visage and advocated clemency for McGivern. It has also covered its inconsistencies by saying that a politician should have no binding philosophy to· be identified by. It has igriored the facts about McGivern, and his previous policies as well, and has advocated -allowing ·:a man · ··· · who had spent his entire adult life wantonly pillaging and murdering until his final con- viction to return to society on the overly optimistic assump- tion that his 17 years in prison have rehabilitated him. This is the same philosophy that would justify a man gambling his family's entire temporal possessions on a long shot that he perceives as a sure thing. Unfortunately, he is almost always wrong, and his family suffers due to his poor judgement. In this case, the family is the \Family of New York,\ the collateral is the safety of the community, and perhaps their very lives, and the long shot is that McG_ivern is fit to live in· society, and that by releasing him we will have the .reward of having turnt'id a psychopath into a deceflt human being. As in the analogy, we will almost surely lose this wager, and a member of our state's family wllllose his-her life. It is for these reasons that the state's Republicans have been outraged by our governor's recent actions and statements. It is my responsibility as a political commentator who values honesty, integrity, and a commitment to a binding · ideology that can be adapted to fit any circumstance, to inform the voters of New York of this mock-ery of our criminal justice system that Cuomo is · at- tempting to pull off by duplicity douo!etaiK, and aeceptton, because if this is not done in 1986, then in 1989 Albany's Janus may become Washington's Janus, and it has taken over . half a decade of Reagan to begin to correct the problems of our last national Janus, LBJ, whose duplicity brought us the Great Society and Viet Nam, and whose legacy has been genocide in Southeast Asia and a stagnant, inflation ravaged economy. We cannot afford a sec()nd such administration in Washington again, and especially now. i,' ' T c c

I CONCORDIENSIS,. March 6, 1986 Page 11 UNION COLlEGE STUDENTS Show us your college IDs between 2 pm · 5 pm and receive Sirloin. Steak Dinner $ 5 9'5 Spaghetti and Meatballs . $·2. 9S parties of 4 or more will receive a FREE Pitcher of Coco-Cola SUNDAY EV'EN'I·NG MEXICAN NIGHT featuring : Nachoes loaded Nachoes, · Triple loaded Nachoes, Mexican salads, and Mexican Skins HALF PRICE WTH YOUR IDsl Mt4NHf\1bflN i:~ltiJlA.~~~ 605 Union Street - 374-5930 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ' NOW 2 LOqATIONS TO SERVE YOU Wiemann li D'Ar jay's 1714 UNION ST.REE+ 1621 UNION STREET PHONE .37 4-6647 PHONt: 393-0917 1 / Specializing in \ 0 °tO ~:~ Suede & Leather Cleaning c.Jll.~ Shirts & Blouses Laundered c.P.S~ & \)~iS Zippers Replaced~ Jeans Shortened ..... ,c.c.O Ch \' ~ arge·Accounts Welcome SUMMER '86 at C. W POST ....... ·,._. ---.· ---...,...., .· ·:·,~1._11-1 I ·I f:l..z •, .· .. :•:IGF: ':IIEL~,., · · · .-. . ' ' . . '' .. 1..1=1$ TII'IG · G1=:1:=ikl ,.· :--: . t·- . . , ·~ . ' - . ' . At Long Island University's beautiful C. w. Post Campus, this summer's schedule combines diversity with flex- ibility. Complete a full semester's work with 6 credits in each of 3 sessions, or select a single course or workshop. Planning to work or play by day? Then our evening or weekend classes might be your key to adding credits or credentials this summer. Dorms, recreational facilities and services are available at the Post campus on Long Island'slush North Shore, just minutes from beaches, and only 25 miles from Manhattan. Call516-299-2431 or return the coupon for a combined bulletin listing Summer '86 undergraduate and graduate offerings at the C. W. Post campus as well as Long Island University . Campuses in Brentwood and Southampton. ~CP----------- SUMMER ;ESSIONS O;F-;;;-----~ I p.Jeasesend Long Island University l I Summer '86 Bulletin. • c. w. Post campus I 1 1 1 am most interested in: Greenvale, NY ll548 I . I .,1 0 0 Underg 0 raduate 0 D Gl raduare ~arne 11 May June · Ju .y ·I Address I 0 Day 0 Evening 0 weekend I 0 c. w. Post City. Stale, Zip 1 I 0 Brentwood I L __ o~~~~~to\-----~o~.!..__2_ ___________ ..J !J!!IIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllllllllllflllflllllllllllfllllllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll!tl i . Attention · ir--- ___ ___, I Food Service. Dept. has 1· su~~~~!~fJ~~ 986 aee••••••••••o••••••••••••••e••••e••••••••••s••••••••••••••••••••••••••••e••••• • • CAPITAL DISTRICT • • • • i automatically Re-Registered ~ ---=:..::.::.:.::~~_;:_:_~- 1 students for the Spri~g Meal Plan. i WASHINGTON i If you must make. a·change, please ! OR ~conta-ct· Rlch Baia +ri the Food Ser- ·~ LONDON I vice Office before Spring_Break. I llflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllflllllflllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiNIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIJiflllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllfll I N TE R N s H I PS The Panhellenic Council would like to thank those who participated in. the Cabaret Contest: First Place: Dave Provost Sean Connelly Second Place: Jim Havard Loren Webber Dave Wasser Third Place: The Garnet Ministrels M ADEMOISELLE AGAZINE says. . . One of the top 17 salons in the country.\ *Inquire about our student discounts. *SUNY bus stops just doors dWay. *Jean Paul Coiffures is Your Island of Elegance in the Capital District - a hairsbreadth from New York and Paris. Jp <JeAN PAUL COIFFURE5 DEWITT CLINTON 142 STATE STREET ALBANY. NV. 12207 ( 518) 463-6691 major credit cords accepted cflDDRtCiftif lHL DlffLRtn(f \' lN SERVICE ... We listen -We care -We deliver. •lN QUA 1 J1Y ... · We ARE Europec. -Trained in Europe and recognized throughout America. •IN STYLE ... We ARE trendsetters - Innovators of new style - Masters of subtle variation. SUMMER SESSION ONLY. at Wad ham College of the University of OXFORD Accredited courses in government, economics, journalism and pre· law bY an outstanding faculty. Full Academic Year Programs at the London. School of Economics, St Andrews Universities, for Qualified Juniors and Seniors. All credits transferred through Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia (Founded in 1776) Inquiries to: Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. Admissions Director The Washington International Studies Center 212-724-0804 or 0136 (EOIAA) !\nul iq u•· 169 Ja ~ .'i1 n•t•t Handmade Stiver Jewelry, Imported Indian Clothes & Gifts, A Complete Une of Pipes & Smoking Accessories. Rock T's and Assorted Rock Group Items SPEND A DAY 'ON THE JOB' WITH A CAREER • • • • • • • • UNION ALUMNUS/A OBSERVATION : ' • • • • Sign up on Marcl112 & 13 DAYS : a~ The Career Development Center • • • • APRIL 15-17 • ••••••~•e•••••••••••••G•••••••••••••••••••••••••••w••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• Copies of the 1986 Garnet may be ordered in the Student Activities Office prior to March 14th at $28.00 per copy. Books will be available on an order basis only, if you plan to purchase a copy please order NOW! ********************************************** . ~ ~ \Is Academic Freedom Compatible -~< t With the Education Agenda of t t The Ne~ Right? 1 ' t . ~ 1< ~ Mr. George Roman Schenectady Human Rights Commission -1< ~ Will Address ~ oil 4:30 Tuesday this issue ~ ~ Humanities Lounge (Brief Film Presentation) t .. ********************************************-!< Buy an 8-cut Pizza with one or more topping and be eligible for a weekly drawing of a 20 oz. slim jim mug. This week's drawing will be held on March 13. This week only: Super Slim Jim regularly soc:, buy at a low pric,e of 35(.

' j Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Marcil 6, 1986 .. SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY---= .. The Fifteen Day Emergency Beach Di~t By A. J. HELFAND Oh my gawd! I didn't really put on that much weight, did I? I mean I have to wear shorts and even a bathing suit in fif- teen days. Oh my gawd! Have you or a friend been echoing .these thoughts lately? Fear not! Dr. A. J.'s emergency 15-day Before Spring Break Beach Diet is here. What's that, just in the nick of time you say? Yes, those fresh- man 15, as well as the sophomore, junior, ·and even senior 15 can really ruin an otherwise riotous time in the warmer climates. After all, it is not easy to have a good time while you are holding in your stomach for ten days. Unlike most other diets, the SBBD (as we like to call it) is a combination of eating the right foods, exercise, , and proper psychological guidance. The psychological aspect of the diet is the most vital part of the diet. as it incorporates age-old remedies from lost cultures to the most modern treatments, stemming from years of research through a coordinated multi-national effort. There are three stages in the SBBD diet. The first stage covers the initial seven days. On the first day of the diet, on the food , front, you may eat a Biology Professors Receive Grant The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a $22,350 grant to Union College biology professors Margaret H. Schadler and George· M. But~ terstein in support of their research on a chemical that spurs reproduction. The compound, 6- Methoxybenzoaxazolinone ( 6- MBOA), is found in rapidly growing plant seedlings on which animals feed, and was first isolated as a reproductive stimulant in 1981. Schadler and Butterstein became interested in discovering exactly how 6- MBOA works in the body. A federally funded organization, the NSF supports basic research in both industry and educational institutions. This grant was awarded after a proposal Schadler submitted last summer under the Foun- dation's Research Oppor- tunities for Women program was recommended for funding by a panel of outside reviewers knowledgable in the field of regulatory biology. The team began its research in August 1984, first studying rats and · later experimenting with pine voles. They have since found that, in the female reproductive systems, the ingestion of 6-MBOA leads to early ovarian and uterus maturation in young pine voles and rats. In older pine voles, the compound results in no change in the ovaries and a big weight gain for the uterus-just the opposite of the response in mature female rats. Through further research, Schadler and Butterstein hope to discover which part of the body the compound acts upon most directly. Their discoveries, the professors indicated, coUld be valuable in the area of pest control. \If we understand how an animal's reproductive system works, we can also find something to work against it,\ Butterstein said. Funds from this grant can be applied to equipment, food for the animals, and. travel related to the project. Schadler and Butterstein are understandably pleased by the receipt of the NSF grant. \It's a good start,\ Schadler said, \ because it gives us the extra equipment we need to have.\ She noted the grant is also a \measure of somebody's feeling about our worth as scientists. It's good to know that at least there is somebody else who feels we're doing something creative and wor- thwhile.\ Schadler, who holds her MS and PhD degrees from Union, is a research assistant professor of biology at Union. Butterstein, a professor in the biology department, holds BA and MA degrees from the State University of New York at Buffalo, and a PhD from Rutgers University. Union College Administrative and Engineering Systems Collouium Institute of Administration and Management Speaker: Dr. Ronald Kershner-Director of Biometrics, Sterling-Winthrop Topic: \The Process & Problems of Registering Drugs.. with the FDA\ Date: Thursday, March 6, 1986 at 3:45 Place: Room 312, Bailey Hall grapefruit. No Tab, diet Coke, salads with low-cal dressing- just a grapefruit. You may eat your grapefruit either before or after you complete your 1,000 Air Force pusb-l.!pS. For Day Two of the diet, please refer to Day One. On Day Three, as \those pounds begin melting away and as en- thusiasm builds, an, early morning run to Girling Center is appropriate. When you return, as a reward, you may have a grapefruit for breakfast. For lunch and dinner you have the rinds to suck on. As dawn breaks on Day Four, and as your blood vitamin C level is bursting, we, as professionals, must consider the surf. Thus, a swim in the Mohawk equivalent to an English Channel crossing will suffice for the day's ac- tivity. Since the Mohawk will probably still be frozen, I heartily recommend SCUBA gear. For your day's .caloric intake .... well, let's skip eating. No, how about if I say that you can eat whatever you catch? Happy fishing! For Day Five, you get to eat a champagne brunch at the Ramada and then nap all day. Just kidding, please refer to Day One. On Day Six, or what · is commonly known as Richard Simmons day, you will undergo an extensive aerobic workout for an 18-hour period, with a 15- minute melba toast break at high noon and twUi.ght. On Day Seven, as , visions .of a whjte beach become more vivid, for 24 hours the dieter is not allowd contact with the outside world; and for food may eat anything red, raw, and with bones. Live it up baby! On Days 8-14, the psycyological is coupled with the physical as the dieter is allowed to take a seven-day ski trip to his favorite mountain- with one stipulation. You must hike back up the mountain (after .skiing down) whHe listening to \The Best of Nietzsche\ on your walkn1an. · On the fifteenth day of your diet as you stand before. your mirror and gasp in ecstasy at the wonde.rs of ~. modern medicine, sta·ge three will begin. Very simply, it consists of a brief pilgrimage to Mecca followed by a shopping spree in Bloomie's. Enjoy the beach! Please note that students with metabolic imbalances should consult a physician ·before this diet. Union College I.E. E.-E. Student Chapter's Annua I Prize for Electrical Engineering Advancement -See scholarship section of this paper for details- ..

• ' ~ . . CQNCQ.RDI£N$JS, ·March 6;.1986 · - Page 13 ·sciENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNQ~LOG-Y Malaria: The MicroscopiC Killer By STEVE KONLIAN One of the most neglected fields of biology is the study of parasites, or parisitology. Admittingly, . parasites do not make the most attractive topic, but they do pose a severe health hazard to people throughout the world. For instance, according to the World Health Organization, the worldwide prevalence of some parasitic diseases are: Ascaris (roundworm) 1260 million people Hookworms 932 million people Trichuris (whipworm) 687 milliol). people Malaria 300 million people Schistosomiasis 271 million people Plastnodium~s Life Cycle The Ufe cycle of the Plasmodium parasite is a complicated· matter, so I will try to describe it in its simplest terms. The parasite requires two hosts for the completion of its life cycle: an invertebrate host (the Anopheles mosquito) and ~a vertebrate host (man). The first stage begins when an infected mosquito takes a blood meal from the host, and at the same time injects into the host a form of the Plasmodium. Within one to two days the parasite travels to the liver and un- dergoes development. After some time it moves to the bloodstream . and attacks the host's red blood cells. The last stage in the host is undergoing asexual reproduction. The cycle is completed when the Anoplteles mosquito feeds again on the host and ingests the new Plasmodium. Malaria: Tbe Disease · higher mortality rate, due to greater damage to major organs. Treatment and Control The Chinese discovered the first antimalarial drug, Ch'and Shan, but the Europeans were almost medically powerless until quinine was discovered in , the sixteenth century. Other drugs used are pamaquin_e and quinacrine, with chloroquin and · amodiaquin as the preferred drug. In the control of malaria, mosquito control plays a vital role through destruction -of breeding grounds and use of insecticides. Malaria is nonexistent in the United States; and, un- fortunately, most -of the nations in infective areas are third world countries without the means or money to adequately deal with the parasite. Thus, control ·of malaria and its elimination in these endemic areas is still a far way off. In this article it would be impossible to cover even a small percentage of known parasites, which is unfortt.mate since diseases like malaria, African · sleeping s~ckness, sc,histosomiasis, and River Blindness infect third world countries like the plague. Thus, we will have to limit ourselves to a discussion of one parasite. We will focus on Malaria, caused by the parasite of the genus Plasmodium, since it is the most important parasitic disease in terms of lives lost and economic burden. Most people know that malaria is transmitted by a mosquito and that victims have chills and fever; but, usually, that is the extent of their knowiedge. The_ characteristic chills and fever which occur periodically according to species (there are four species infective to man) is produced by the host's inflammatory response. There is also severe anemia, stemmihg from the enormous destruction of red blood cells. In ca&es, t):lere is damage to the liver,. kidneys, spleen, brain, lungs, heart, and death may result. Through The Hawk's Eye History of Malaria Malaria has been traced back to the 'E!gyptians, -mentioned- iri scrolls and hieroglyphs. Hi~ pocrates studied medicine in Egypt and clearly described malarial fevers which he said was caused by bile. Homer, the famed Greek poet, mentioned it in his Iliad. In medieval time, nto:re crusaders died from malaria thaA from wounds received in battle. Lastly, in the construction of the Panama Canal, malaria was the major obstacle until extreme mosquito control measures ~ere implemented. A few days before the first fever \paroxysm'' the patient may feel malaise, muscle pain, headache, loss of appetite, slight fever,nor it may occur abruptly. With the chills· and fever come nausea and vomiting followed by a hot, usually delirious, stage. The entire paroxysm is over in eight to twelve hours. P falciparum is the most serious form of the disease and as a result there is a By BENJAMIN HAFTEL IWonderWat Freud Would Say -A recent survey conducted through the The American Psychologist has reveaied some interesting statistics about · · psychotherapists. Nearly 90 percent of the therapist sur- veyed admitted to feeling sexually attracted to their clients at least once. Less than 10 percent said that they had ever acted on the attraction. Two-thirds of those surveyed admitted to feeling gUilty or confused about their feelings, but half reve!fled that they hacl never, in their training, received any counce! on how to handle their feelings. Of the • people who admitted to being sexual)y intimate with cheir clients, male therapists were Health watch: Chlamydia By JIM SCHWARTZ -Medical researchers claim chlamydia has become the most prevalent sexually transmitted disease in the country, and college students are among the most likely to contract it. Screenings of women coming to health clinics at the universities of Washington, Denver, Nebraska, Alabama, Boston and Tufts, among others, .show seven to fifteen percent test positive for · chlamydia. . . And rates as high as 35 per- cent have been reported at certain clinics. There may now be three to four million new cases of chlamydia each year in the United States; estimates Dr. Lawrence Sanders· of the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta. Furthermore, 15-to-H)-year- olds are the most likely people to get the disease, the CDC says. Little hard data exist to verify that incidence of the seemingly- obscure disease is rising, but general observations by doctors around the country suggest the disease is spreading, says Prof. Walter Stamm of the University of Washington's medical school. Especially troubling to doctors is that chlamydia often does not produce symptoms in its victims. And, if left untreated in women, the disease can cause pelvic inflammatory disease, which can lead to sterility, maintains Teri Anderson, a clinical supervicor at Denver General Hospital. However, _unlike acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and herpes, chlamydia is readily treatable with an- tibiotics such as tetracycline, Anderson explains. Sumptoms, usually occuring within ten days, often include discharge and a burning sen- sation when urinating. Increased availability of cheaper tests for chlamydia also may be contributing to the rise in reports of the disease, Anderson notes. A chlamydia test . usually costs $35 to $50, she adds. But Anderson cautions that standard pelvic exams; even those including a Pap smear, usually will not detect chlamydia. The lack of symptoms . in victims may help explain why many people are less concerned about chlamydia than they are about more fearsome venereal diseases like AIDS and herpes. At least 40 percent of the chlamydia cases diagnosed in women -are asymtomatic, says Susan Lloyd of the CDC. About 20 to 30 percent of the men diagnosed do not show symptoms, she adds. Victims often don't discover they have chlamydia, moreover, until they are treated for other illnesses like gonorrhea. Indeed, chlamydia and gonorrhea often occur in tan- dem, doctors say. Anderson speculates that most chlamydia victims will eventually develop sumptoms if the disease is left untreated. Health centers are going more to prevent the spread of the disease. \We are getting more aggressive in treating sex partners,\ Anderson says. The new tests also allow clinicians to examine for chlamydia specifically. Anderson recommends young adults who are sexually active, especially with more than one partner, should be tested for chlamydia. four times more likely than female therapists to act on their feelings. I guess that this in- formation win only add to the misconception that men are just insensitive. Galileo, a Screw-Up? I Don't Believe It -As a result of the report, in January, of the possible · existence of a new gravitational force working against gravity at short ranges, scientists everywhere are flooding the laboratories with research experiments and sharp debate. The fifth force might take the form of a \hypercharge\ force. Hypercharge is best described as the number of protrons and neutrons in atomic nuclei; the particles are held together by a binding force. The binding f(}rce in different atoms is not the same, and would differ in the degree of the fifth force that they would generate. A small object made of iron with a higher binding force than a larger wooden object would fall at a slightly smaller rate than the latter, thus shattering once long-standing theory. I guess this is not too surprising: elementary laws of physics still cannot explain the ability of a bumblebee to fly. And Now For Something Completely Ridiculous -If matter falls down, will antimatter fall up? Physicists do not think so, but they sure are trying to find out. The problem is that no one had been able to measure how gravity affects antimatter. No one group has been able to find a way to see how fast-and which way-antimatter falls. I sure wish that they would hurry up and find out. I know that I sure will sleep better at night not having to worry about this dilemma. Reality, what a concept! Believe It Or Don't -A robot burglar alarm of the future will contain a recorded warning for potential criminals to vacate the premises. If the uninvited guest does not leave immediately, the robot will spray a dye on the thief which will be used to identify the perpetrator. Now that's in- credible! This author gratefully wishes to acknowledge all the con- tributing sources that make the writing of this article possible. Introducing ••• GBake~ . Tea'Room · Candy· (iifts Goulm:etSpecialties 518·393·5592 A Country Fre11ch Gourmet Food, Candy and Gift Stort' . •. Featuring: Snacks, 1 0% discount Baked Goods, Natural90 soda for Gourmet Pizzas including a birthday cake for Someone Special sausage bread Union College dips. Students the list is endless

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Murch 6, 1986 THE ARTS .:.:: v rc co (!) > OJ - if) >- .0 0 .... 0 .c a. Sandy Cook, Jim Havard, Jeff Wi!'l'ters l · WRUC } 89.7 fill S TE;REO 11 THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ l WRUCand Concordiensis presents ....... , ..... . Best Medicine for the Soul THE FIRST ANNUALWRUCTOP 8.97 CONTEST. Since the inception of the WRUC TOP 8.97 one year ago, many people have been saving their copies of the listing after taking them down from their . refrigerator each week. This practice will finally pay off. By IL YSSE FEINGOLD Tremendous, exciting, out- standing, energetic describes the performance by three Delta Chi brothers in the Old Chapel last Tuesday night. Artists Jim Harvard, Jeff Winters, and Sandy Cook played in this charitable event and the benefits went to the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, the fraternity's philanthropy. Steve Black, a junior and former Delta Chi president, made the commencement which included his gratitude for all the support received. The first ·11ct of this cabaret needs no introduction; he has filled the old chapel multiple times this term with music by J.T., Queen, America, Cat · Stevens and much more. It must not be overlooked that Jim also writes and performs original music. Tonight, we were lucky enough to hear a beautiful and meaningful song which Jim wrote for his sister. Jim opened his act with a song that always receives overwhelming applause and makes him relax, ''Sweet Melissa\. One of Jim's very successful tools as a performer is his ability to change the audience's entire· mood by alternating upbeat music with romantic and melancholy tunes. It is always enjoyable to be thrilled by his rendition of ''Me and Julio\ with its calypso strum and then listen to the arpeggio which is the ac- companiment for \You've Got a Friend\. A room fillled with clapping quickly becomes a room struck by silent listeners. As an entertainer, Jim has also mastered the importance of good pacing, and pausing to evoke a distinct tone. As many times as I hear him repeat music, Jim always manages to evoke a slightly different quality. The incredible opening of the second act featuring Jeff and Sandy clenched the audience's attention, which remained throughout their performance. Jeff's casual attire of tan slacks with a cream colored vest and Sandy's short sleeved sllirt with jeans only reinforced the theme that ran through their act-that theme of \ease grace, and the idea of being 'laid back'.\ The Indian looking tapestry covering the wall behind them was most appropriate for their act which consisted extensively of Grateful Dead music. These two guitars worked to complement each other. Sandy, who seemed to be in charge of the melody, impressed me with his slides and \pulls and hammers\. Jeff, on the other hand, sang and played the chords. Jeff's husky voice suited this music perfectly. An audience member respvnded, \he's doing this really well because I know the real thing.\ Each song was packed with musical interludes displaying these musicians' versatility. Sandy's hands utilized the entire neck of the guitar. One of the evening's specialties was Jeff's solo, a \Long Suite\. Jim and Sandy' ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••A •• .. ••••••••••.,. 9 • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • .. • • • • • March 8, 9 7:00P.M. Performing Arts Studio Arts Building Free Admission Reception Following The Union College Dance Ensemble presents: Pieces in Progress The Ensemble, created a year ago, gives students and teachers the opportunity to use classroom experience in a performance setting. 11 Pieces in Progress;' includes works by Pat Castelli, Linda Massaroni and Darlene Myers. • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • :, . A. rece.ption will fol ~aw the performance~· . ~. • ••••• .~ • ••• • • e'• •• ••• • • ... ~ ••• •• • •••-•• •••••e••••\•••• •·•••••••.,•·•llfl••••·•ne w·e·•·oe..-e .. supportively watched from the wings with smiles from ear to ear. This piece had no words, however, the audience seemed thoroughly engrossed by his technique. This impressive piece of music might be a unique and very effective way for a guitar teacher to demonstrate different strums, runs, and finger picking to students and expose them to the many directions they can pursue. The evening kept climaxing as Jeff and Jim played together. \Rambling Man\ was a treat, but to see these two guitarists synchronized in such a pace as exhibited in \Pin Ball Wizard\ demonstrated real expertise. These charasmatic per- formers received support from their fraternity brothers who attempted to demonstrate their instrumental ability by playing the drums on the tables. The audience also interjected when it was appropriate. There was never a dull moment to the evening. The superb talent which began this cabaret was maintained throughout the night. \Good Love\ which has .seemed to become a traditional way of concluding cabaret, left the audience with exactly that motive. This song brought a certain collectivism among the audience as they swayed, sang, clapped, snapped and stomped. This finale included the three performers who had momen- tarily freed us of our concerns and problems. Their music, with its rriessage, had reached us. RULES OF THE CONTEST: Gather as many copies of The Top 8.97 as you can from old copies of Concordiensis. Only one copy of each week's edition counts. Duplicate copies of the same week don't. Put them in an envelope along with your name, address, and phone nwnber. Write \WRUC Top 8.97 Contest\ on it and drop it in the big Concordiensis mail box on the 3rd floor of Old Chapel. PRIZES: The grand prize winner (the person who turns in the most listings) will win 8.97 brand new albwns inCluding this week's #1 albwn Different Light by the Bangles. ·Ten runners up will win one albwn apiece. DEADLINE for entries will be Wednesday, March 12, at 5 p.m. Winners will be announced on WRUC on Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Members of the Concordiensis editorial board and their families are not eligible for the prizes. And don't worry, all your Top 8.97's will be returned to you. Position Artist Album Label Last Week !-Bangles-Different Light Columbia-2 2-8iouxsie & the Banshees-Cities in Dust Geffen-8.97 3-Replacements-Tim klSire-3 4--Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Time-5 5~Pet Shop Boys-\West End Girls\ EMI- 6=Jesus & Mary Chain~ Psycho Candy Reprise--WB~ 7-Fine Young Cannibals-F.Y.C. IRS-R ·8-Clannad.:....Macalla RCA-R 8.97-Midge Ure-TheGift Chrysalis-4 '· -Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director Iildia: ('t.Q\ot.Q>oQ><.Qit.Q><Q'><..Q>r.Q><Q->1 . ~ Union Colle~e § § Chamber § From a Peace Corp Worker's Poin·t of View. slide Presentation of India's: Soci.ety Economy Future By Erwin Lenhardt Sponsored by the lnterni:ltional Student Union (I.S.U.) Friday March 7th-7: 30 P.M • Steinmetz, R.oom 106 Science and Engineering Building Refreshments will be served! Free!! Everyone is invited to Attend! •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••w . ~ ~ *Arts Trivia Contest* ~ ~ ~ ~ Coming Next Term I ~ Look for it in 1st Issue of Spring t M ' ~ ~············································- ~ Orchestra ~ § Plays: § § § ~ Shubert ~ t Mozart i § ·Haydn § § § § 3:00 Memorial Chapel § t Sunday, March 9 ~.·. y Janice C. Thomson8 ~ ~ Pianist § Hilary Tann., § ~ Conductor § t Free Admission ~ § ~ . § .FQ>~~~~\ . j - i ~ ( ..[ c l t I 1 J I c 1 r 1 s ( r r r. c c: rc 1- > l.. rc J: .... c > ~ ..... = c <.; E c .c c:

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 THE ARTS \\' u ro co Q) > Q) .,_ ll) >- .0 0 - 0 J:: 0. Sandy Cook, Jim Havard, Jeff Wi(1'ters [ ·WRUC ) 89.7 hn STEREO SCHENECTADY 111 THE FlRST STATION IN THE NATION\ I WRUC and Concordiensis ;presents ............. . Best Medicine for the Soul THE FES1' ANNUAL WRUC TOP 8.97 CONTEST. Since the inception of the WRUC TOP 8.97 one year · ago, many people have been saving their copies of the listiDg after taking them down from their refrigerator each week. This practice will finally pay off. By ILYSSE FEINGOLD Tremendous, exciting, out- standing, energetic describes the performance by three Delta Chi brothers in the Old Chapel last Tuesday night. Artists Jim Harvard, Jeff Winters, and Sandy Cook played in this charitable event and the benefits went to the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, the fraternity's philanthropy. Steve Black, a junior and former Delta Chi president, made the commencement which included his gratitude for all the support received. The first ·\act of this cabaret needs no introduction; he has filled the old chapel multiple times this term with music by J. T., Queen, America, Cat Stevens and much more. It must not be overlooked that Jim also writes and performs original music. Tonight, we were lucky enough to hear a beautiful and meaningful song which Jim wrote for his sister. Jim opened his act with a song that always receives overwhelming applause and makes him relax., ''Sweet Melissa\. One of Jim's very successful tools as a performer is his ability to change the audience's entire mood by alternating upbeat music with romantic and melancholy tunes. It is always enjoyable to be thrilled by his rendition of \Me and Julio\ with its calypso strum and then listen to the arpeggio which is the ac- companiment for \You've Got a Friend\. A room fillled with clapping quickly becomes a room struck by silent listeners. As an entertainer, Jim has also mastered the importance of good pacing, and pausing t<> evoke a distinct tone. As many times as I hear him repeat music, Jim always manages t<> evoke a slightly different quality. The incredible opening of the second act featuring Jeff and Sandy clenched the audience's attention, which remained throughout their performance. Jeff's casual attire of tan slacks with a cream colored vest and Sandy's short sleeved shirt with jeans only reinforced the theme that ran through their act-that theme of \ease grace, and the idea of being 'laid back'.\ The Indian looking tapestry covering the wall behind them was most appropriate for their act which consisted extensively of Grateful Dead music. These two guitars worked to complement each other. Sandy, who seemed to be in charge ()f the melody, impressed me with his slides and ''pulls and hammers\. Jeff, on the other hand, sang and played the chords. Jeff's husky voice suited this music perfectly. An audience member responded, \he's doing this really well because I know the real thing.\ Each song was packed with musical interludes displaying these musicians' versatility. Sandy's hands utilized the entire neck of the guitar. One of the evening's specialties was Jeff's solo, a \Long Suite\. Jim and Sandy· •••••••••••••••••••••c••••••••••••e••~••••••••••••••••••••••••••A•• .. ••••••••••~ • March 8, 9 7:00P.M. Performing Arts Studio Arts Building Free Admission Reception Following The Union College Dance Ensemble • • • • • • • • • • • . • . • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . ~ • • • • : presents : : . . . . • • ~ Pieces in Progress E . : : The Ensemble, created a year ago, gives : students and teachers the opportunity to use : classroom experience in a performance setting. • : \Pieces in Progress\ includes works by Pat • : Castelli, Linda Massaroni and Darlene Myers. • : A reception will follow the performance. ~••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••a•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••~••o••••a~•~ . supportively watched from the wings with smiles from ear to ear. This piece had no words, however, the audience seemed thoroughly engrossed by his technique. This impressive piece of music might be a unique and very effective way for a guitar teacher to demonstrate different strums, runs, and finger picking to students and expose them to the many directions they can pursue. The evening kept climaxing as Jeff and Jim played together. \Rambling Man\ was a treat, but to see these two guitarists synchronized in such a pace as exhibited in \Pin Ball Wizard\ demonstrated real expertise. These charasmatic per- formers received support from their fraternity brothers who attempted to demonstrate their instrumental ability by playing the drums on the tables. The audience also interjected when it was appropriate. There was never a dull moment to the evening. The superb talent which began this cabaret was maintained throughout the night. \Good Love\ which has seemed to become a traditional way of concluding cabaret, left the audience with exactly that motive. This song brought a certain collectivism among the audience as they swayed, sang, clapped, snapped and stomped. This finale included the three performers who had momen- tarily freed us of our concerns and problems. Their music, with its message, had reached us. RULES OF THE CONTEST: Gather as many copies of The Top 8.97 as you can from old copies of Concordiensis. Only one copy of each week's edition coW1ts. Duplicate copies of the same week don't. Put them in an envelope along with your name, address, and phone nwnber. Write \WRUC Top 8.97 Contest\ on it and drop it in the big ConcCJrdiensis mail box on the 3rd floor of Old Chapel. PRIZES: The grand prize winner (the person who turns in the most listings) will win 8.97 brand new albums including this week's #1 albwn Different Light by Ute Bangles. Ten runners up will win one album apiece. DEADLINE for entries will be Wednesday, March 12, at 5 p.rn.. Winners will be announced on WRUC on Wednesday night at 9 p.m. Members of the Concordiensis editorial board and their families are not eligible for the prizes. And don't worry, all your Top 8.97's will be returned to you. Position Artist Album Label Last Week !-Bangles-Different Light Columbia-2 2-Siouxsie & the Banshees-Cities in Dust Geffen-8.97 3- Replacements- Tim klSire-3 4-Hoodoo Gurus-Mars Needs Guitars Big Time-5 5-Pet Sh<>p Boys-\West End Girls\ EMI- 6~Jesus & Mary Chain~ Psycho Candy RepriseeWB~ 7-Fine YoungCannibals-F.Y.C. IRS-R 8-Clannad-Macalla RCA-R 8.97-Midge Ure-The Gift Cbrysalis-4 -Compiled by Evan Schwartz, WRUC Music Director India.· f'.._q-...q...q...q,..q,~..q,..q.l ~ Union College § § Chamber § From a Peace Corp Worker's Point of View • slide Presentation of India's: Society Economy Future By Erwin Lenhardt Sponsored by the International Student U11ion ( I.S.U.) Friday March 7th-7:30P.M • Steinmetz, Room 106 Science and Engineering Building Refreshments will be served! Free!! Everyone is invited to Attend! ~ Orchestra t § Plays: § § § ~ Shubert ~ ~ Mozart ~ ~ Haydn ~ § § § 3:00 Memorial Chapel § ~§ Sunday, March 9 ~ Janice C. Thomson, § Pianist § ~ Hilary Tann, § § Conductor ~ § Free Admission § ~ § t.q.~~tq.<.O\>.q...q.'<

c: ro E ~ u ::l Ill ., !.... > .0 £ 0 ..c: a. Bernardo Alba at Nott . . . It's A Must Outstanding seemed like a mild understatement when I was searching for an adjective to describe the Arts depart- ment's production of Bernarda Alba ... The story takes place in a small Spanish village and revolves around a family consisting of a widow and her five daughters. Bernarda, the mother, has total and seemingly tyrannical control over her five daughters, yet they do manage to elude her where the matter of love is concerned. The story is full of emotion and suspense but it was definitely the acting that made the play superb. Each member of the cast (all female students a:t Union) transformed them- selves perfectly into the character which they por- trayed. This transformation enabled the audience to become part of the story. One actually could feel the sweltering heat and the pain of the broken hearts the characters incurred. It was evident that a lot of hard work coupled with immense talent went into this production. The play was fantastic and I strongly recommend that everyone experience it at least once. 'Bernarda Alba' will be performed at the Nott Memorial March 6-8 at 8 p.m. CONCORDIENSJS, March 6, 1986 Page 15 THE ARTS . t'h · Arts ···-··.·t:n• , :.···' ., :e·.·.·-;····.:· ;.:'. -· ·: .. ··._ · .- \' • '• • •• , . ' :·· <r ~!\est of die Term ·. , , · ·\ ·· ·. ··. , l~tu·ea-1~,. · .····.·o.n·. _ ... _ osn~ilSeumf.QJUega cnneen· ·.·.wmusteiOOm'iff'·Swanne-ABey'\\'Memorial,Chapel, '1 p.Ql ...... ~ ,-- _SEE DEAN DANIELS FOR APPLICATIONS Fall or Spring Semester Jewish Rock Group to Perform SAF AM, a nationally known . Jewish Rock Group from Boston, will be appearing in concert on Sunday, March 30, 1986 at 3:00 p.m. at the Niskayuna High School Auditorium. The concert will be sponsored by the Schenectady Chapter of Hadassah. characteristics. Their sensitive arrangements make full use of si:x: strong vocal performers (including two cantors) and an assortment of instruments, most notably electric guitars, piano, flute, synthesizer, bass and drwns. AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES 0 Ecology 0 Economics 0 Biology 0 History 0 Literature 0 American Studies 0 Public Policy 0 Oceanography 0 Off-Shore Research rht WIIIMm .. My .. lu. r'''k'T.lm utfn., '\Ill .I ~h.ilkn,:.m.~: urr!lrlU!lll\ It• f<~tll\ un~ .,, mL~h:r ul v•mr <.tuJtt·<; .m \'u r, Lllt••n'h•r .... •th th .. \~ .1 \\h.: .. lt\i11lg m'-''\f'L·r.ua\' ht•u~~· ... n M\.~ltl. s.,·..tr••rt '\tl.u~l,·um ,,,u •• ml,nn•• ,, .. 11U1~ttlOJtO}! m,'J1!1111L .._;,Jk<..thm~ ,l!ld [ihT,ti\ ,,,JJ \.1[UI)'['L•IU1.11Lih LlhLot,UL•ty, ,mJ JiVU~I. &.IL.l\t \n\ lfLIOIUL 01 l'11U lolkt I Pill \\ dlL;uU\ t'L-Jk~L llliU~\'' 10 ht~IUH. lltt;f,liUIL' <1Ll.lll11~l,lf'll\- <It 11\,lflll\ H••h•.,\ .nullll.ITIO\ rult,.,. Yuu l.tn ,1[ .. 11 JtLllt•r Ot\\ llt.l!llltll< ~k·ll .. Ll!loiLl 1'1•· f\.\>~tnnaJ lll\lrllltHln, tndmhn,.: hnm bmJJm}t, IU,llntLll:111H ~.UfUl~ ,111,1 wko.,tt;tltt.WIJ.:.,mt•n Ynuo.,p..·nJ h·n d.t\~ utt .. h••tl· 1111 tht ~· h•1nntt R \ \Vc•,twcml. untk'lt;tkll1~ H\\L\JII. h ,1ml ~.nntn)l '\'\f'c.tiUlu ,,,, h,o,n,\ .1 l.af .. , -..1tltn)! ,.,.., .. ,) Tht mutmp.ttJl'r.lt Lt .. LiLih.' ''' rht \llt'Lllll\ \h .. ,,, ' Accredited by WILLIAMS COLLEGE Taught at The group's musical styles range from folk-like ballads to rock and roll, from Dixieland to melodies with traditional For further information and tickets contact Susan Farber, 377-6711 or Susan Jarrett, 370- 3703. . \\ \\/ .... , ........ , .... . MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM ll,lfll'd m.uun h.,l~n.H .tnLithL u>Olf'.IOt••n~hlf' ''' I dill\, \lti.ILnt\ tilL•' L<,tC.J 10 thL \'' f'tll\.1•\l· .10 LXLq'otlun,JJ;;l·UtOX fnt lll.llllllll~ \IU c: c: ro 1- > !.... ro :t: .... 0 >- .2 !.... ::l 0 u £ 0 ..c: a. WILLIAMS-MYSTIC PROGRAM • MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM, INC. • MYSTIC, CONNECTICUT 06355 • [203) 572-07II Ext. Storyteller Laura Simms Will be performing in the Performing Arts Studio this Friday in the last concert of this year's Winter 1 mprovisation Series. She will be accompiJnied by musician, Steven Gorn, who will play a variety of instruments from Asia, Aftica, and the Ameri~as. Laura Simms is a leading force in the revival of storytelling as a fine art in America. She combm~s story, song, gesture, characterization, and rhythm, and makes audiences co-creators of her stones. The performance, which the New York Times llas acclaimed as \excellent\ and \irresistible will take place at 7: 30· in the Arts Building. Admission is free. the difference is.· .. . your kind of place • • • o .. the difference is exciting gifts • . . the difference is distinctive cards and .stationery .• . the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount • o .the difference is minutes from campus the difference is corner of Liberty and South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa ·Mastercard 382-7600 Hours Mon.-Fri. 10:00-5:30 Sat. 10:00-5:00 · .

c 1'0 E ..¥ u :::> (/) 1'0 !.... > .D 0 +- 0 .c a. Bernardo Alba at Nott ... It's A Must Outstanding seemed like a mild understatement when I was searching for an adjective to describe the Arts depart- ment's production of Bernarda Alba ... The story takes place in a small Spanish village and revolves around a family consisting of a widow and her five daughters. Bernarda, the mother, has total and seemingly tyrannical control over her five daughters, yet they do manage to elude her where the matter of love is concerned. The story is full of emotion and suspense but it was definitely the acting that made the play superb. Each member of the cast (all female students at Union) transformed them- selves perfectly into the character which they por- trayed. This transformation enabled the audience to become part of the story. One actually could feel the sweltering heat and the pain of the broken hearts the characters incurred. It was evident that a lot of hard work coupled with immense talent went into this production. The play was fantastic and I strongly recommend that everyone experience it at least once. 'Bernarda Alba' will be performed at the Nott Memorial March 6-8 at 8 p.m. Jewish Rock Group to Perform SAF AM, a nationally known Jewish Rock Group from Boston, will be appearing in concert on Sunday, March 30, 1986 at 3:00 p.m. at the Niskayuna High School Auditorium. The concert will be sponsored by the Schenectady Chapter of Hadassah. The group's musical styles range from folk-like ballads to rock and roll, from Dixieland to melodies with traditional characteristics. Their sensitive arrangements make full use of six strong vocal performers (including two cantors) and an assortment of instruments, most notably electric guitars, piano, flute, synthesizer, bass and drums. For further information and tickets contact Susan Farber, 377-6711 or Susan Jarrett, 370- 3703. \*c ' CONCORDIENSJS, March 6, 1986 Page 15 THE ARTS This Week in the Arts Tile Restt1f tlte1'erm. March& On Campu.s-Bemada Alba _performance by Union Stndoots-Nott Memorial, 8 p.m. thru March 3 .. Off CampllS-Albany Symphony Orchestra presenting the Gewanditaus (Jrl)hestra of Leipzig performing Brahma Symphony No. 1 and Brahms DOcuble Concerto for Violin and Cello at Palace Tb.eatre, Albany. Off Camp-us--The Verdiet hy Agatba Christie at the EgginA.lbany-tbruFeb. 8. Mareb7 On campus--Laura SJmmis, Storyteller; Steve Gorn, Musician-Winter Improvisati-on Series Arts Building, 7:30p.m. Off CampllS-The Cruicible-play about Salem Witch Trials of 1692 Skidmore Theater-tbru March 8-FREE Mareh8 On Campus-\Pieces in Progre<RS\ Union College Da:noo Ensemble, Arts Builditlg tbru March 9-FREE. Off Campus-VieiDla Chamber Or- cllestra-Pr-<Jct(}r's Theatre, 3 p.m. On TV-Peter, Paul and 1\(aty-~5tb Anuiversary spedal toncert taped in Nashville Tennessee, 9 p.in., WMHT Channell 'I FM89.1 On TV-' 1 Wooostock\ the 1970 Academy~Award wiruling dtlcumentary, 11 p.m. WMHT Channel17 Fm89.1. March& . On CampWl-lJnion Orchestra U>ncert with .Janice Thqmpsont piano and conducted by Hilary Tnnn-Memorial Chapcl3p.m. On Campus-Late Nite Bites-Tasty desserts and mU:Sical jam sessi(}n, 9:30p.m.. Hale House. Off Campus-Tuur of New York State Ar~ ehives-New York Stare Museum Empire State Plaza, Albany~ 2 p.m.~Reservations Required. Mar-chll o.n Campus.....;Late Nite DUes-Tasty desserts and musical jam session, 9t30 p.m.,.Hale HI)\!Se. F I NPtl DEADLINE: FRIDAY, ll APRIL 00 campus-Toddler Stories-Albany Public Library- Take a break from your thesis •.. Albany Public Library, 10 ;3~ a.m. Off Campus-Ln.dlllw Faire-A play exploring the relationship between two young female roommates, Skidnwre Theatrt Lodge Stadio, 8 p.m. Reservations Required-thruM arch 13. Off Campus-The Tap Dance K!d-...Pf<lctor's Tooatre tbru March 16,8 p.m., Sat. at 2, SU!l. at 2, 7. Marehl& On Camput:~-Late Nite Bites- Tasty desserts and musical jam session, 9:36p.m.. Hale~. Off Campus-\History of the Adioondaek Forest Prtserve''-8peaker: NormanJ. VanValkenburgh, Schenectady Museum. 3 p.qt. March14 Off Campus-'\ An Imaginary lteport on American Rock Festival\ a hit Hungarian roek musical'-thru March 25 at the EGG, Albany. March16 On campus-Museum/College Concert w/Mnsit!ians of Swannt) Alley-Memorial Chapel, 7 p.m. Marehl7 On. TV-A Song from Ireland-Irish music WMHT Channel17, 9 :50. Marehl9 On. Campus-staff CllGrai Singing-Memorial Chapel, 12-1 p.m. March22 On Campus-octavo Singers ~f Sehenec· tady-Memorial Cbapel, 6 p.m. Mareh25 Off Campus-Ice Capades with Scott Ramilton-RPI Field House thru Mareh 30 at 7:30 1p;m. Marcb28 Off Campus~Blaek Sabbath--Glens Falls Civic Center, 7:30p.m. SEE DEAN DANIELS FOR APPLICATlONS Fall or Spring Semester AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES [ 1 Ecology l I Economics i J Biology i J History l J Literature . ; American Studies ' : Public Policy · · Oceanography Off-Shore Research fhl \1\II'LIIll'- \.h,•![L l't••(l.l:ll••tl,•\\'\ I ,t-,; .. ,,., IL t'l'ol' r.,. \' '\' \\'\ •'It 1 •I , \'·' ,. I , , •\ .. : ., ,, , , ,, • ,\ l•\lfl~•n•''\f't-'11'\' t,,.,,,, .. 11 \1,,•., ._,,,,,,. ,1,, ... , a;,., • >UT-I .1H,h111~ Ill 1111 '!IH . • •I!,, I\ •I'• on,i ' 1 I' '\ , \ 1 1'<, , ,. , hh'\\\'\ rn,l.h;,, ... ,,\''\''~.--, •·-l+''•h' \ • •• • r'.\ Accredited by I \!11.1:< '\\\'' ''\ ''~''\'' I 1• I Ll . .r. '. ·<l· , •••• - .... \\' Ill \\\ r• ,r . \ '''\ ' !II .: -,' .!, '' '·~- ,, \ ,, ,, ' ' ' \ ' l .. WILLIAMS COLLEGE h ''I• '11.11 • '\If\' r '\\ ,.,, 1 ••Ill:~ \' 11 ,•,, : I·• , 111•11'• n , , , . , · 1 I, ,,,_.1 ••·nu:;.rtr.•.r 'r\u 'r'lll•! •,n .tn .. ,.,.,,,, , .. , •· h. ~'\.. '' \-\ •r./ II\. I\ I I'll. II'~ I 1 '' ,)f, I• 111>! ._,,,! l!._ '> j'l • 1 1 · , , •,- , ' •.ulrn.:.•••••: lht '''''\'1'- '' •,, •' 'J.\\ ., \h \,llltol lll'LI•IH 1 ul• \ll llhj 1 1 h ,,.,.,I liP I,: I < '·, >\ '' ', ' Taught at MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM • ,,,.1 LJI I h, '< ' j'' '' ..!, '\ '<'. • rr ··''I· ., ·' ~ '··i \ · ''' · WILLIAMS-MYSTIC PROGRAM • MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM, INC. • MYSTIC, CONNECTICUT Ob355 • 12031 572-0711 ht. .l5<l .(: .. - -~:·. the difference is ... . . . your kind of place • e .the difference is exciting gifts .. . the difference is distinctive cards and .stationery . . . the difference is your kind of clothes at a discount .. . the difference is minutes from campus Storyteller Laura Simms will be performing in the P~rforming Arts Studio this Friday in the last concert of this year's Winter Improvisation Series. She will be accompanied by musician, Steven Gorn, who will play a variety of instruments from Asia, Attica, and the Ameri~as. Laura Simms is a leading force in the revival of storytelling as a fine art in America. She combmes story, song, gesture, characterization, and rt:lythm, and makes audiences co-creators of her stories. The performance, which the New York Times has acclaimed as \excellent\ and \irresistible will take place at 7:30 in the Arts Building. Admission is free. the difference is corner of Liberty a11d South Ferry Streets Schenectady. Visa ~Mastercard 382-7600 Houts Mon.-Fri. 10:00·5:30 Sat. I 0:00-5:00

. .I \ \. ' ' Page 16 SCHOLARSHIPS The Association of Food & Drug Officials (AFDO) an- nounces its annual scholarship competition with an award of $1000 to cover the recipient's junior or seni<:Jr year of college. Applicants must have demonstrated a desire to serve in a career of research, regulatory· work, quality con- trol, or teaching in an area -related to some aspect of foods, drugs, or consumer product safety; should have demon- strated leadership ability, and must have at ieast a 2.5 GPA. Applications must include an official college transcript and letters of recommendation from two faculty members. Applications are available from the Financial Aid Office and are due by March 14 for the 1986 award. .. Union College I.E.E.E. Student Chapter's Annual Prize for Electrical Engineering Advancement. $400 will be made available for funding of engineering related projects and conferences. Applications will be made available on Friday, March 7, 1986 in room 204 Steinmetz. Applications must be in by Tuesday, March 18, 1986. Recipients announced during the second week of the spring term. INTERNSHIPS The Berkshire Theatre Festival has a summer in- ternship program for a special exhibit research assistant. The intern will research, catalog, and expand existing theatre archives and help prepare for the mini-exhibit. Application deadline is April 30, 1986. Dun & Bradstreet is looking for a non-paying Informat~on Support Person. An. econ?rrucs and communications background is needed. This is a good internship for someone who wants to learn about business in general. Moorhead State .Vniversity offers graduate assistantships in student affairs, student services, student development and counseling. The program is designed to prepare men and women to serve as student personnel professionals in colleges and universities through graduate study and practical experience. TeenAge Magazine is lQoking for editorial interns to work full- time for six months. Interns must be 21 or younger, who are independent, respons-ible, organized, c~ea~ive, a.nd motivated. Appllcatlon deadlme for the July-December term is March 15, 1986. The Center for Blood Research, a biomedical research laboratory, is offering a summer internship program to undergraduate and graduate biology and-or chemistry students. Internships are available in blood cell physiology and biochemistry plasma protein genetics and histocompatibility. Application deadline is April 1, 19{\fi. Cambridge University Press is offering a summer internship program for students who want to learn about the publishing industry. The eight-week program is designed to teach CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 students about every phase of a book's life. The New York State Senate Legislative Fellows Program places graduate students as legislative staff members. The position is for approximately one year, beginning in Sep- tember 1986. Application deadline is May 15, 1986. The New York State Senate offers the Richard J. Roth Journalism Fellowship. The fellow will work full-time, for one year, in the office of the Press Secretary. Applicant should have the intention to pursue a career in journalism. Application deadline is May 15; 1986. Sociology 61 INTERNSHIPS IN THE DELIVERY OF SOCIAL SERVICES (Spring term 1986). Placements are still ava'ilable. Agencies include Human Services Planning Commission, O.D. Heck, Schenectady Boys and Girls Clubs, WMHT-FM, Ellis Hospital, St. Clare's Hospital, etc. Please see Professor Weiner before March 11. CAREERS On March 12 & 13 Career Observation Days Sign-Ups- Sign up to spend a day \on tlle job\ with a Union alumnus-a in the Capital District. Detailed information will be sent to all on-campus mailboxes in March. 8:30-5:00 CDC. On Mar. 14 Fri. Career Observation Days Orientation Meetings-Mandatory meeting for all who sign up to visit an alumnus-a for Career Obser- vation Days. 10:30, 12:30, 3:30, 5:00 CDC. CLUB NEWS New Wave Night Sat., March 8, 10 p.m.-? Old Chapel. Come out and dance to the best in New Music. Sponsored by WRUC in cooperation with Student Activities. Trip to Proctor's--Friday, March 14, to see \The Tap Dance Kid.\ Anyone who wishes to go in a group please meet by Old Chapel Plaza at 7:15 p.m. Half-price tickets may be picked up with a student ID for $11, $9 or $6.50. Wednesday, March 19, to see \Berline Ballet.\ Anyone who wishes to go in a group please meet by Old Chapel Plaza at 7:15p.m. Half-price tickets may be picked up with a student ID for $8, $7, or $5. Any student interested in attending a symposium entitled \Monoclonal Antibodies: New Probes in Biology & Medicine'' should get in touch with Prof. Twitty Styles, 370-6331 - Biology Dept. The symposium will be held March 14-15, 1986 at tlle Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller Empire State Plaza, Albany, New York. 'Registration fee $150.00. To the Students: We, the founding members of Camp Hollywood, would like to make the campus aware of a promising social, intellectual, and creative pursuit with which to counteract these ·dry times: to wit, the creation of Union 1 s first video production club. Camp Hollywood is for the actor in you, the playwright, the producer; the director. It is for anyone and everyone interested · in creative film-making or skilled filming -and we'd like to see you all next Thursday, March 6, at 4:00 in the ABC lounge. Founding Members, Camp Hollywood CLASSIFJEDS Spring Break '86 Party in Fort Lauderdale. Trips include seven nights accommodations, all taxes and gratuities, poolside party at Summers, daily happy hours, Hawaiian Tropic parties, round trip jet and more!! Student 'Travel Services 1- 800-648-4875 Spring Break '86 Relax in Nassau, Bahamas. Trips in- clude roundtrip jet, transfers, seven nights accommodations, parties, free cruise, all taxes and more! ! ! $369pp. complete .. Student Travel Services 1- 800-648-4875 Professional Typing-Busi- ness teacher is available to type term papers, theses, resumes, etc. on weekends. Close to campus, call any time, 399-4656. • Summer Jobs at Ramapo Anchorage Camp in Rhinebeck, N.Y. An interviewer will be at the Career Development Center on Tuesday, March 11, from 10 a.m. until 12 IJ.Qon. If y:ou are mterested, see material in the CDC. First-come, first-served sign-ups by March 7. Daytime volunteers are urgently needed to help staff a 24-hour crisis line run by The Samaritans, a suicide prevention agency serving the Capital District. Samaritan volunteers offer completely confidential \befriending\ rather than counseling-- befriending being· com- passionate, nonjudgmental acceptance of people who are lonely, desperate, and often suicidal. To get an application or more information, ca11463-2323 day or night, or write to The Samaritans at 200 Central Avenue, Albany, NY 12206. Union College's Academic Opportunity Program (AOP) needs ( 4) peer tutor counselors . for its 4th Summer Program. WHEN: July 6 to August 16, 1986 WHERE: Union College RESPONSIBILITIES: . Attend Summer Program Orientation session . Tutor in assigned subject area . Provide personal, social and academic counseling . Assist students with orientation to Union . Assist the residence staff . Participate in all required· staff meetings . Submit weekly reports and final evaluations . Assist in compilation of student and tutor counselor final evaluations . Make counseling referrals to appropriate personnel . Participate in social, cultural, and recreational activities . Perform other duties as assigned by the Director, Assistant Dil'ector and Summer Program Staff QUALIFICATIONS: . Upperclass person or graduate as of June . Capable onutoring in one of the followiJJg areas: . Cllemistry . English-study Skills . Math (Precalculus & Basic Math) . Mlilimum 2.0 cumulative index: . Nin:Unum3.0 in subject area · you will tutor · Applications now available and intel\Views being arranged in tlle AOP Office, Bailey Hall. For more information contact Wanda Torres at 370\'6115. Appli(ation Deadline: April 3, 1986. March 7-9-Mad Max Beyond Tbunderdome at 7, 9, 11. March ll-Taps at 7:30 and 10. March 14~16-Silveradoat 7:30 and 10. Tickets are available at the Old Chapel for $1. PERSONALS JP-1 :hope you have a great time in Vienna! Ich will einen Bier! Gute Reise! (Die Turn- schnen) I'll miss you! Love, Clueless Curious (Todd), Do yuu want to get to know eacll other? Still Intrigued To those of you who will be blowing this popsicle stand in favor of Vienna (Mad Rita I'm talking to you)-Schd'y is just not going to be tlle same. -Mel Fellow Mercy Killers: In the immortal words of Andy Klumrnp, \OOH-RAH! !\ Let's DO IT! Spike, Jr. To tile 4th flo()r casenapper: Oliay, I paid the ransom money and gave you my plastic basin ... now where is my contact lens case'?? Signed, J;McA. · 'To the ~Quiet One\ : ' I'm waiting at your front door. I'm tired of having to peek thru yolll\ back window ... . DO IT ON A DElC!! ! L, One of the advantages of the shue-world is to be abl'e to come and go-anywhere, anytime. SlRHC Your first personal was from me? Well, here's your secon.d: Don't let the squids get you down .. Stay tuned for No. 3. Wanted: REAL MEN. All applicants sent qualifications to: Box 1799 'To the Prude, Now that you're exposed, thanks for the valentine. Love, The guy with the headache Fourth Floor Fox S. Keep your beer and corn chips out of my sushi. Berkeley and Bridgewater, Let's get our fish together sometime. Oh, I forgot, Fred and Randy are dead! Take a wild guess who Sis- Let's make a pact. No more 5 a.m. massacres. If it keeps up, we may both be pre·mees. Besides, we should be asleep, · not sad. \How will \I Knoooooooo:w?\ - -Happy Brainless- A visit, a visit, free brain cells for a visit! ! ! I'd love to talk with you. Letters can only say so mucb: -Not that weird CONGRATULATIONS TEAM BOB!!!~!.! Way to go Third Floor West! ! ! ! ! Gotta Love you Guys!!!! Your Loving RA's, Howiebob & Kimbob 5ig Brother/Bicg, Sister Charity Presents: West Dining Hall fr<>M lOPM to lAM fea. t u.ring: Jlt~ck Jack_ ; C re.p.s ~anSI WheeLs Poker-~ ;A Ill and ·r---Spring Break ~ • '86in Ft. Lauderdale atllle OCEANFRONT HOLIDAY INN BEACH $2 ·59 00 * : Pru.:es Include All Taxea · . • & Service Charge•!! CGntact: ~.6 S..chc10mboll' Toure. Inc. ~ 1325MILI.EASPORI liGWY. . WILLIAMSIItll ~. NY t4ZI1 • • d 17101 il3:z.3723

CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 Page 17 PERSONALS PERSONALS POLICY: Because of space limitations, Concordiensis must ask that all personals be no more than 30 words. Any personal exceeding this limit Will not be printed. Also, NO personals which contain profanity Qr vulgar language and-or connotations will be printed. If, for any reason, your personal is not printed, you have the right to get your 25 cents back. Rachel~ Thanks for listening; Yours, Friend of a desperate friend Wallen James: Your revenge is well taken. No more infatuation. hey Todd. Way io go! She was a \b\ any way. Sincerely, An Ancient Japanese Fortune Spanley Have a great time in Mexico and don't forget about our bet. Good luck on your finals. Luv.Buzz Karen Love those Madonna pants but how come you won't walk in front of me? DOU- Beware SDT: The SLO will strike again! This time, not from the South. ·If I (didn't love you I'd hate you) were to give you 3 bir1Jhday gifts, they would be eternal kingship on the island where the wild things are, a lifetime supply of Tonka trucks .(with gasoline and matches, naturally) and the physique of the man next to \Mike's A.P.\· The fourth gift would be a closet that locks from the inside (you never know when you may need 1t again) HAPPY BIR- THDAY!! !-I still owe you a dinner for that bet I lost!!!!! LYNN(E)RBUG- Where did you say Martians are from--Marsha or Mar- shinia?!? Amy- l need your advice-who is your most reliable supplier? -Lizzie Nicole, I don't know where it came from but I swear it's muscle! What's your opinion Howie? Jo? Get psyched for Mickey Mouse. I love you. me. Dawn-y()u make me smile. I love you. -one of three- not by transitivity To the Green Triple (esp. the TALL ONE), I humble myself before you on my hands and knees and beg for your forgiveness. My sincerest apology. I love ya ( esp. the TALL ONE)! The Eternal Pledge ANTICIPATION!! Will you please pass us the \katchup\ soon! Roomie & Bunkie- Happy Anniversary! May WE celebrate many more! Love you two! MEL- Look no farther, there is a social alternative ... a party with the 2 Qf us at our best! Thanks ! A pledge I like my meat nicely cooked. To. the Solester, You're hysterical! UC and the world in general could use more of ya. Thanks for you! One Question: Should we be nicer to each other? This answer lies with you. I've tried. Gail: How about a quadruple- stuffed oreo? That's 4 times the lickin'! Hey, Ed: Just how fast is fast? David .-N.: You are cordially. invited to attend the New Newlywed Game with your spouse. this weekend. But keep the whippings to a minimum, please. Debbie E. All right Thomas! We knew you could do it! One last chance ... It had your name.on it! Congratulations! Sandi Here's to our fraternity. May it live forever. Pledges Schmo- Congratulations on your in- terview! Remember to be positive! Ernie MB & RC: Are your pants still wet (from the beer I mean; ? Dave H.-Were you born with that moustache? Let's play Candy land ... or would you rather go bowling? Happy 21st Gail T. FROM YOUR FAVORITE HAND '---------- Happy Birthday Man, . Have a great bash! Bleemis, the most sought after \man\ on the Union College campus. Love, Mama Bert Why would anyone travel three hours to spend the weekend ~--- -·~. in Schenectady? ·~1~) Parent's Weekend May 9, 10,11 HAPPY BIRTHDAY DAVID SCHULMAN! (Please do not read this until Saturday). Love, Pozzy · T-woman, Smile! The clam man will be home soon. I love yau! -P-woman TP: Thanks for taking care of me when I was sick. I love you. An old friend. P.S. Happy Blrthday! Darrin: After last Friday night my body will never be the same again. Ralph (you Blue Collar-kinda- guy) let's take the family bowling again sometime soon. . Remember, we have to paper baby J's nursery. Maybe next time it won't cost so much. (!!!55 mph!!!) _ Looking forward to Christmas Eve, Love, your blue collar- woman Ethel Cute Baby DB, I bet Cindy Lou Hoo never opened het mouth when she kissed Max:. • S, H and T nice try gu.ys. Remember who's the Boss. S.C. · P.S. It's been about 16 weeks, but whose counting. . A, A, D, K, K, M, P- Thanks so much for Saturday night. Now, who needs me to buy some alcohol? Love, R PA Thanks for trying to make my birthday worth sticking arolUld for. I noticed. love, PR G.B & A.R.-You guys are awesome roommates. I wish we always had our triple, with that nice make-up mirror. Love, M.H. Lyssa-Please forgive me! There's always room for you as my bridesmaid. To all .people going to Italy-[ want to go more than you. Please drop out. Meg, Meat Cleaver Woman, Kat, Jo, Ethan, T'he Wrighteous One, Meg's Muffin, Jon, Jules, · Wench, Lazy Liz, and, of course, my favorite Toto fans,- have a great spvillg term! I will miss you!'! · Pam and- Amy- l love you. Yeah. Thank you. In spite of your lack of en- thusiasm, I'm gonna miss you guys! Honey, Honey, ... can I put on your clothes? N.G. quote of the week: \Shopping is like sex without a climax.'' Patty C., Hang in there! I'm thinking of you. I wish I C()Wd be initiated with you, but I guess I'll just be a pledge forever. That's how I like 'em-crunch on the outside and chewy on the inside. Why it was ki<!ky, and kinky, and oh so ... Everyone can see how cute you are ... but, only I know that you're AMAZING. You're the buns. Here is a toast to No .. 208 - Sue: \TTS\ \Another sober game of I It's over with you and Dwog! , never.\ Tee Hee He ... Robin, Have you checked your mail today!!!! 86 ..... DOE- Good luck on exams and have a great vacation. Gey psyched for spring term. MNMLC Who's the father!!?!! YNCMB P.S. Are you looktng for volunteers? SAL-How's the alphabet? We should get together more often. I never see you! Love, Posse Dear DG Pledges, we're bored- amuse us! We like that Pi Alpha Shuffle! Mommy loves you! Ing-get megaspiked-we're taking our svimvear, evening vear & vatevervear on the road. Heads up Europe--here we come! Jean Bean the Dancing machine! When are Quit:Jt Hours? The crowd goes wild! ! You are a marvelous Vice President. Pledge Ed! ! Hang ih there BABS, only 3 more weeks till rugby! 3 weeks and no more concrete! Have you raided Barry Manilow's wardrobe lately? Kat- Hurry up-alex is on. We'll miss the first round. It ain't easy being green! Love, Jeopardy Partner A++ I promise it only hurts the first time. The other A To Triple A- L & M & FP equals S (too bad it didn't work). A question to ponder ... What did Mona almost lose this weekend? · I heard that bracelet man has a special place in his heart for girls with sleeping problems. Gail, Thanks for the walk around the Fenway, the Scorpion bowl, and an amazing weekend. Your favorite little sister Pozzy, Didn't you ever take lOth grade biology? It's just a muscle. Your friendly Area R.A.'s Jeff Lawrence for Emperor. WATCH OUT! The assistant pledgemonger' son her way-but don't worry-sHe's 8 and has no brain!! Queen-sized, overweight reformed, prison inmate- country girl looking for athletic trainet· with honest intentions. Please send photo. Serious offers only. Hey! Personals should be . funny, cute and most of all ... nice!!! Why don't you take out your dumb aggressions in a better place--say ... over air waves on trivia or something. If you have a beef with some really cool guys, why don't you tell them directly. They would love to look you in the face while you attempt to inslllt their truly great character. A partial observer P.S. Sorry to hear about your door! A group of faculty and students are forming the The Union College Buddhist Study and Meditation Group. There wi II be a meeting for organization plus some meditation, Thursday, March 13, 1986, 4:30-6 p.m. Humanities Lounge.. For further · information contact: Professor Patrik, Professor Thur- ston or Dean Roth. ... Sticks me too I had a friend, he said only one word .. \Wow\ ... but he could also say it back- wards ... \Wow\ ... isn't he amazing?! DURACELL PEOPLE UNITE!!! T<> the Skating Dutchmen- Congrats on a great win at Oswego! Whatever happens, you proved you're a tough contender. You've made our Schenectady winters ex- citing ... Best wishes in all that you do. JK&JB Yudy, \CVS\ won't let me hop in your suitcase ... How about a JP term abroad t<1 Green Lakes instead? - -Meat Cleaver Lady J:B- . What can I say? You're the best hockey l>uddy a fellow fanatic could have! Thanks for tile road trips ... without you the magic number wouldn't have been possible. Keep smiling!! .- JK Hey Jude, Barbara tunes will always remind me of you ... I'll miss your Sweet Sweet Smile Everyday, but get psyched-It's gonna be clear sailing and Vienna waits f<1r you!! Love, Your Senior Citizen Roommate Boagie, The big house wants you to come home! SWOG-You'1e right, I really am a witch. -HexySue DWOG-O.K., so I'm domineering, overstuffed, dull, and clumsy, l>ut I won't be around forever. Tyrannosaurus Rexy S. Anita, So what's that about February 14th freshman year. Hey Jude- Now who's gonna wake me up in the middle of the night and jwnp on my ~d? You've made this year very memorable. I'm gonna miss you. Love, Scarecrow without a Toto

.. . I. Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 PERSONALS Hey roomie, what happened? You were on a roll there for awhile ... now you spend yom· nights in the library. Scarred both mentally and physically ... and to think you didn't even remember ... Sue-why weren't you at the polkafest? I played our song. Love and kisses, Jersey Polka Ritchie P.S. See if you can get some of your friends to come next time. They really would like me. I'm hot. Dearest Kris, Life at Union is not the same without people you care for. Hope the trees are treating you well and did you pass dirt 101??? Love Always, D Hey Puddles--How are the handcuffs working out? Isn't it sad when· your only form of entertainment is standing near the staircase looking up people's shorts? Mickey-An exchange: The left for the right-in my room. Don't be late. Perhaps a bonus French assignment will be included. Love, Lisa Hey Mikey B.-Have your broken anY:. windows lately? I MISS MY MO-MO! It's your turn to visit me. I love you. Pozzy Bear · Steve, I had an incredible weekend, \thanks for being you\ Love You Can we replace \sweaty bottles\ with \sweaty bodies\? Preferably muscular sweaty bodies to improve our image. -a · · concerned sister That's what it is. De chicks they can't hold de smoke! That's what it is. ... but wait, didn't the Geeks • eventually penetrate the Trojans' impregaable harriers? -LatexySue Dear Ed: · It's an arborescent outrage; sour cream on somnolent arms must be eschewed! -Duh, GPS4DSB Attention.: New Term abroad program starting fall '86. Spend your term in hell. Yes, that honeymoon haven is now just an express train away. It's inex- pensive and you don't need an interview. Why go to Japan, when you can go to hell?! To the Zelos: You are loved. Don't let the jerks upset you! Keep smiling and know you are being supported a friend If you think DEBBIE was bad, watch out-here comes EVIE!! Hi, Lisa! Yep' this is it-a real honest-to-goodness personal- for you! Hope it was worth waiting for! Love ya'! To the Fox, South, and Hickok RA Staff, you guys are the beans ... or was it the deans. I've been having a great time, hope everyone else has. Love and Fact-kisses ... A3-Was that supposed to be cross country skiing? Love, No. 208 Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence Suzie M, While cleaning the pizza pub · we found a special pill for a certain history professor. Do you want it? Gossiping Pizza Crew \Rugby linesman being tackled sir! 'Coz I'd go down & you'd go down & we'd all .go down together~ .. \ TOBIN- Your roots have been getting darker lately! Are you really a CLOSET BRUNETTE?! To Sam the. Cow's herd, Thanx for making the farm yard fun. I'll miss ya a lot but I guess I'll just have to make the best of thoae foreign pastures! MOO! Uhhh .. Bob, I'll try \Annoying Parasites\ for 450, please. CMB, JBT MUT BEW AHREN congrats yn'sMM-MC . Silly, The joy and happiness felt in my most awesome term yet is due to spending it with you. Can't wait till spring. Here's looking at you. S~imey Windchime, Friday night was the greatest. Let's do it again real soon. P.S.-Missed you _Monday. 4th floor North\-Would you like some tea? When will Food Service stop playing \Battleship\ with our food? Rice Pilaf, Q-60; Turkey Divan, L-21; Buttered Noodles, E-2 ??? You sunk our ap- petites! I ! ! Because the Officers wearing it are the best in t)Je world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval . Aviation. Strong. dedi- cated professionals. who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There· s no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy's · Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. Now Interviewing Juniors To find out if you're qualified, see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in the Campus Center oP April 9. 1986 or call collect. (516) 462 .. 6119. Minority Studentc; Encouraged to Apply Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. .. ~ . . ' '\; ' ~ Amy, We wish that we could have a friple with you aU of the time: To our (ex) Julio:·. . .. · A time check ftom Amster- dam: Was it 12 mi.Ilutes and', SO seconds or 12 minutes and 45 You're the greatest! Gail and Marjorie · GAMMA PHI BETAS- .. CONGRATULATIONS go to all · the NEW officers!!! You're going to do a GREAT job. Go for • It!! · seconds? ? ? ? ??'?? From two friends under an umbrella Lave in liKE, Brooke Hey roomie: Isn't that priest cute? I wonder how old he is! : ! Mr. Wonderful, WDW, graduation, medical school, and me. What more could you want? PUT YOUR DEGREE TO WORK WITH THE PEACE CORPS We are looking for a few good people with the · following Majors: ENGINNERING MATH/ SCIENCE Engineers are in demand in the developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America. 'lhe Peace Corps offers offers experience to civil, mechanical, environmental, mining and metrallurgical engineers. Math and Science majors are in great demand as teachers. Recruiter Katherine Crowley, a returned Peace Corps volunteer who served in Micronesia, will be on campus to conduct interviews on March 12, from 9:00 to 4:00 P.M. Call the Career Development Cente~ at 518 370~ 6176 for more information. -one guess Concordiensis would/ike to thank those editors who are leaving us this term! Debbie Alber1~ Tod Dimmick; Nancy Grundman, Debbie .Rose, Ellen Stipp and Lauren Sobel. Thanks/ora Job ·Well Done! - of w 0: Ui E1 m 011 te hi in TI in1 Ti po sil 1 Ch six erE likl do1 esl or the US{ · wit Te1 en' Ph lat! Sd ·Ma Jol pee t: Ill ... :t) ~ I... 0 Q. Cl) >- .Q 0 .... 0 .c: Q. • 1 p •

P~UH' 18 CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 ~----------(~~----------- PERSONALS ==============~--- Hey roomie, what happened? You were on a roll there for awhile ... now you spend your nights in the library. Scarred both mentally and physically ... and to think you didn't even remember ... Sue-why weren't you at the polkafest? I played our song. Love and kisses, Jersey Polka Ritchie P.S. See if you can get some of your friends to come next time. They really would like me. I'm hot. Dearest Kris, Life at Union is not the same without people you care for. Hope the trees are treating you well and did you pass dirt 101??? Love Always, D Hey Puddles--How are the handcuffs working out? Isn't it sad when your only form of entertainment is standing near the staircase looking up people's shorts? Mickey-An exchange: The left for the right-in my room. Don't be late. Perhaps a bonus French assignment will be included. Love, Lisa Hey Mikey B.-Have your broken any_ windows lately? I MISS MY MO-MO! It's your turn to visit me. I love you. Pozzy Bear Steve, I had an incredible weekend, \thanks for being you\ Love You Can we replace \sweaty bottles\ with \sweaty bodies\? Preferably muscular sweaty bodies to improve our image. -a concerned sister That's what it is. De chicks they can't hold de smoke! That's what it is. ... but wait, didn't the Geeks eventually penetrate the Trojans' impregnable harriers? -LatexySue Dear Ed: It's an arborescent outrage; sour cream on somnolent arms must be eschewed! -Duh, GPS4DSB Attention: New Term abroad program starting fall '86. Spend your term in hell. Yes, that honeymoon haven is now just an express train away. It's inex- pensive and you don't need an interview. Why go to Japan, when you can go to hell? ! To the Zelos: You are loved. Don't let the jerks upset you! Keep smiling and know you are being supported a friend If you think DEBBIE was bad, watch out-here comes EVIE!! Hi, Lisa! Yep' this is it--a real honest-to-goodness personal- for you! Hope it was worth waiting for! Love ya'! To the Fox, South, and Hickok RA Staff, you guys are the beans ... or was it the deans. I've been having a great time, hope everyone else has. Love and Fart-kisses ... A3-Was that supposed to be cross country skiing? Love, No. 208 Navy Gold: Forged in a Tradition of Excellence CAMPUS NEWS Suzie M, While cleaning the pizza pub we found a special pill for a certain history professor. Do you want it? Gossiping Pizza Crew \Rugby linesman being tackled sir! 'Coz I'd go down & you'd go down & we'd all go down together ... \ TOBIN- your roots have been getting darker lately! Are you really a CLOSET BRUNETTE?! To Sam the Cow's herd, Thanx for making the farm yard fun. I'll miss ya a lot but I guess I'll just have to make the best of those foreign pastures! MOO! Uhhh .. Bob, I'll try \Annoying Parasites\ for 450, please. CMB, JBT MUT BEW AHREN congrats yn'sMM-MC Silly, The joy and happiness felt in my most awesome term yet is due to spending it with you. Can't wait till spring. Here's looking at you. Slimey Windchime, Friday night was the greatest. Let's do it again real soon. P.S.-Missed you Monday. 4th floor North-Would you like some tea? When will Food Service stop playing \Battleship\ with our food? Rice Pilaf, Q-60; Turkey Divan, L-21; Buttered Noodles, E-2 ? ? ? You sunk our ap- petites! ! ! ! Because the Officers wearing it are the best in the world at what they do ... they have to be It takes a special breed of aviator to meet the challenges of Naval Aviation. Strong. dedi- cated professionals . who can control the world's most sophisti- cated aircraft. There's no room over the oceans for aviators that are second-best. Beneath the surface pulses a unique environment few will ever challenge. Only an uncompromised standard of excellence earns a submariner his dolphins. The Navy's Nuclear Propulsion Officers wear them. Now Interviewing Juniors To find out if you're qualified, see the Navy Representa- tive that will be in the Campus Center or April9, 1986 or call collect (516) 462M6119. Minority Studentc; Encouraged to Apply ------------------·--------------------------- Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast. Amy, We wish that we could have a triple with you an of the time: To our {ex) Julio: A time check from Amster- dam: Was it 12 minutes and 30 sec<Jnds or 12 minutes and 45 sec<Jnds? ? '?? ? ? ? ? You're the greatest! Gail and Marjorie GAMMA PHI BETAS- CONGRATULATIONS go to all the NEW officers!!! You're going to do a GREAT job. Go for It!! From two friends under an umbrella Mr. Wonderful, Love in !IKE, Brooke Hey roomie: Isn't that priest cute? I wonder how old he is! : ! WDW, graduation, medical scho<Jl, and me. What more ceuld you want? PUT YOUR DEGREE TO WORK WITH THE PEACE CORPS We are looking for a few good people with the following Majors: ENGINNERING MATH/ SCIENCE Engineers are in demand in th'e developing countries of Africa, Asia and Latin America. 1he Peace Corps offers offers experience to civil, mechanical, environmental, mining and metrallurgical engineers. Math and Science majors are in great demand as teachers. Recruiter Katherine Crowley, a returned Peace Corps volunteer who served in Micronesia, will be on campus to conduct interviews on March 12, from 9:00 to 4:00 P.M. Call the Career Development Center at 518 370- 6176 for more information. -one guess Concordiensis would like to thank those editors who are leaving us this term! Debbie Albert, Tod Dimmick, Nancy Grund man, Debbie Rose, Ellen Slipp and Lauren Sobel. Thanks fora Job Well Done! - of W1 o~ Ur E( ne on te< hii in Th int Til po: si:x T Ch< six ere likE dor esp or the use witl Ter en< Ph) latl: Sch Ma· Joh peo .... .... ro +- 'J) t! .... 0 0. (/) >- .0 0 .... 0 .c 0. 1; PI

CONCORIJIENSIS, March 6, 1986 Page 19 C!rnncnrbie-nsis SPORTS Charlie Slotnik Athlete of the Week Looking at Sports By DOUGLAS LLOYD Tom Hodgins is the recipient of this weeks Athlete of the Week for his fantastic play at Oswego which helped send Union to the semifinal of the ECAC Division II West Tour- ney. Tom netted two goals and one assist, vs. the No. 4 seeded team in the tournament to give him 10 goals for the year and 41 in his 4 year varsity career. Those two goals also moved him into seventh position in the All- Time Scoring list with 110 points, one shy of being tied for sixth. Tom is this year's point leader with 26 and has sc~red 14 pts. in his last 10 games. 'rom, a senior from Ottawa, Ontario Tom Hodgins Crew Season ·st-arts By TED EVELETH The Union College Erg Challenge produced a little over six hundred dollars for the crew's spring season. We woUld like to thank all those who donated to this effort · and especially the following groups · or individuals: Jan Grey, and the Food Service for letting us use the Skellar and providing us with free soda and popcorn, Teresa, for all her ideas and encouragement, Security, Physical plant, Chris Siler, for late night conversation, David SchUlman, and e&pecially, the ·Mayor of Schenectady, Karen Johnson, and the following people from her office: Tom t: ro +- :t) ~ I.. 0 Q. tl) >- .Q 0 .... 0 .c: Q. Ana polis (Personnel DirectCJr) ; Jack Parisi, (Health Inspec- tor); Dominique Pollaro, (Labor Attorney); Tom Adach, (Evidence Technician); Andy Giauinto, (Accountant); Tolly Ferrari, (Accountant); and Dick O'Connor, (Assistant Chief of Police.) The crew is finishing off winter training, and preparing for the spring trip to Tennessee where · the first race of the season will take place against ·Wisconsin, Tulane, Michigan, the University of Alabama, and Cincinnati. Upon returning there are five races scheduled leading up to the Dad Vails in Philadelphia on May 9. Crew Team in pre·season photo on Mohawk River. ••••••••••••••••••••• DeAngelo's Ristoran-te 1510 Crysler Ave. 393~4512 PIZZA (8, 12,, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS {Steak, Lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * $1 Off on Pizza *Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards on deliveries too! •••••••••••••••••••• co-captains this year's squad and along with leading the team in points he also is first in penalty minutes. His 53 penalty minutes are due to the fact that his size (6 ft. 2 inches) and weight (210 lbs.) make him the team's natural \enforcer.\ Due to a lengthy sickness, before and at the beginning of the season, it took Tom a while to get his legs back into \hockey shape\ but as seen in his recent performances he is back in stride and then some. Tom is a brother of Chi Psi and majors in History and we congratulate him on his post-season heroics. Intercollegiate Golf Team. Anyone interested in playing intercollegiate . ' golf for the spring term must attend · this organizational meeting. Here's a thought for the day: The chances of a major sporting event coming to Schenectady in this century are slim. Afterall, Schenectady does not have any major leagu£ sports teams, thus no World Series, or Stanley Cup games will be played locally. Fur- thermore, I doubt a Sqper Bowl will be played here unless Donald Trump builds a domed stadium in the Tri-City area. However, there is one major sport Schenectady is capable of hosting, auto racing. The GE Schenectady Grand Prix. Miami, Detroit and Las Vegas - all have started Grand Prix's that are successful. The Meadowlands just started one last summer that attracted the big names in auto racing, and received live coverage on national television. Schenec- tady should be able to do the The General Electric cor- DATE: March 11th poration definitely has the money to sponsor such an event. {Tuesday) Also, GE would receive great TIME: 4:30P.M. publicitydin t~e c 1 apital pistrict area, an nationa attention as a PLACE: major sponsor of the Grand Prix. Since, the City of Field House Schenectady does not have ( Coach Scanlon's major events of any kind, the citizens would surely support Office) such an event. ..._ ______ ..:_ __ .....,._, Not too lDng ago, the U.S. Dutchmen Runners Host Union Invy Continued f~om page 20 fifth place finis by Chris O'Donnell in the 1500 meter and 800 meter event respectively. Todd Allen also finished third in the 50 meter dash with a time of 6.2 seconds. As a team, the Dutchmen showed some strength as they performed well Pucksters ... Continued from page 20 coach here at Union, a very sweet one indeed. Coach Morrison is finishing his eighth season at the helm in which time he has been very sue- in the two mile and the distance medley relay with two second place finishes. As the Dutchmen head into the postseason they spend this corning week gearing up for this weekends New York State Meet. cessful; taking the Dutchmen to the \final Four\ m each of the last 2 seasons., taking 3rd last year, and runner-up the year before. The Dutchmen played last night at R.I. T. in the semi-final round match. Grand Prix was held in upstate New York at Watkins Glen, and since that time there has not been a major race in this region. But, there still are racing fans in the area that would support such a race. Moreover, auto racing is popular all over the United States. On May 3rd, the \One Lap of America\ race will begin, a non\stop eight day 8000 mile race in which teams of competitors will drive around the U.S. The entrants range from pro drivers and airline pilots to ministers and state troopers. All different kinds of people are interested in auto racing. Most Grand Prix's are either held in huge parking lots or the center of a city. Downtown Schenectady would be an ideal place for the curse, with it's long straightaways and wide turns. Furthermore, by having the race downtown it would enable the roads to be repaired with corporate money rather than tax dollars. The GE Schenectady Grand Prix would offer a large purse, which would attract the top drivers, and thus bring many people into the city, As a result, the Race would generate money for local businesses, and give a boost to the overall economy of Schenectady. ' Well, it's only a idea. Team ;itOrts St. t..awrence, 123; Stony Brook. t1; I!Pt, 90, Union. 70, K lngs Point, 62; Hlmllton, ~; Cenlstus, 26; Morlst, 15; Siena, 13; Hudson Vafllty CC. 12; l..e- Moyne, 12; H\rlwlek •· l!vents 5il hurdles - Hinds (SBl, 7.0; Emery (KP), 7.1; Ashe (RPI), 7.6. ...._ , 50- Slo•n (RPI), ·6.0; Dillard (~,..._2; Alitl'lo,(U), 6.2. ~.....~~. 400 - Dl1011 (SLU), 50.0 (Miiilt record);.'\ll\ard (59), SU; Plimpton (SLU), 52.0. SGO - Dlsotelie ISLU), 1:07.9; Mahler CUJ, 1:07.9; Taylor ISBl, 1:01.2. 100- Altwlcker (RPI), 2:00.1; Bjork (SI..U), 2:01.1; Plalr~er CSLU ), 2:01.1. 1.100 - Thorp (SLU), 2:32.1; Less (RPI), 2:35.1; Wlllmes (l..tM.), 2:J6.5. I,SGO - Ttmmlsou (SLU), 3:55.1 CMut reeord); D'Hora (SB), 4:02.7; Keane (KP), •:O•U. J.OOO- Pom.lnnllle (SLU), 1:55.1; Connelly(Can.). 1:!16.3, Avery (SII!nol, f:58.7. 5,f00- Dumoulin (SLU), 15:04.2; Ropes (51!11, 15:42.4; ICiaskl (RPI), 15:44.1. J.OOO walk - Fl•her CSBJ, 12:21.1; Flannery (S8l, 13:20.6; Cle(ka (untttachedl, 15:31.6. Mile ,..,.Y- St. Lliwrence. 3:32.6; Hamltlo>n. 3:31. 1; Stony llrool<, 3::W.3. Two mile reltr - H•mlllon, 1:06.3; Union, a:09.4; Marls!, 8:14.1. Dlstanee modlty - can lsi us, 10:44.8; U nlon, 10:50.1; Hamilton, 10:56.0. High jump- fllnds (SBI, H; Rtlla (K.P),._.; A5ht fRPil, 6-4. P'ol\t 1111111 - Lacy (U), 1~ (SchOOl recvrd); Woods !Nor.), lW\14; Coates {KP), 13-11'\11. Leng jump- Rella lKP), 22·11f.l; Hlnao lSBl. 21-9; Gotza !HVCC ), 21-! ...... Trlplt(ump -Rella (KPl, 45-1'!/o; Hinds (58),~ 3V.; Ashe lRPJ ), <13-1~ . ShO! put- Rtmlllard (Ul, 47-6'h; Cochren (KPl. 45-10; Dunlay (SI..Ul. 45-7. 35-JNund llelght - Remillard (U), 57-4 1 .4 (Meet record), Wrlghl ISLU), ol.4·21'.1; t..eBrun IRPll, ~2· 3'1•. -{1 ~ ll ll WRUC- SCHENECTADY 19.7 fm. ST£1t[0 • •tHE FIRST STATION IN THE: N.ATION .. Playoff H·ockey \ Saturday 7: 00 (If Neecessary) Sports line Sunday Night With Bob Koch, Charlie Slotnik and Tom Coleman

CONCORDIENSIS, March 6, 1986 Page 19 Qtnucnrbitnsis SPORTS Charlie Sl.otnik Athlete of the Week Looking at Sports By DOUGLAS LLOYD Tom Hodg·ins is the recipient of this weeks Athlete of the Week for his fantastic play at Oswego which helped send Union to the semifinal of the ECAC Division II West Tour- ney. Tom netted two goals and one assist, vs. the No. 4 seeded team il'l the tournament to give him 10 goals for the year and 41 in his 4 year varsity career. Those two goals also moved him into seventh position in the All- Time Scoring list with 110 points, one shy of being tied for sixth. Tom is this year's point leader with 26 and has scored 14 pts. in his last 10 games. Tom, a senior from Ottawa, Ontarie Tom Hodgins Crew Season Starts By TED EVELETH The Union College Erg Challenge produced a little over six hundred dollars for the crew's spring season. We would like to thank all those who donated to this effort and especially the following groups or individuals: Jan Grey, and the Food Service for letting us use the Skellar and providing us with free soda and popcorn, Teresa, for all her ideas and encouragement, Security, Physical plant, Chris Siler, for late night conversation, David Schulman, and especially, the Mayor of Schenectady, Karen Johnson, and the following people from her office: Tom .... .... ro +- 'J) t! ... 0 0. (/) >- .0 0 +- 0 .c: 0. Ana polis (Personnel Director) ; Jack Parisi, (Health Inspec- tor); Dominique Pollaro, (Labor Attorney); Tom Adach, (Evidence Technician); Andy Giauinto, (Accountant); Tony Ferrari, (Accountant); and Dick O'Connor, (Assistant Chief of Police.) The crew is finishing off winter training, and preparing for the spring trip to Tennessee where the first race of the season will take place against Wisconsin, Tulane, Michigan, the University of Alabama, and Cincinnati. Upon returning there are five races scheduled leading up to the Dad Vails in Philadelphia on May 9. Crew Team in pre-season photo on Mohawk River. •••••••••••••••••••• DeAngelo's Ristorante 1510 Crysler Ave. 393-4512 PIZZA (8, 12, 24 cut) HOT & COLD SUBS DINNERS (Steak, lasagna) APPETIZERS (Wings, Salad) * $1 Off on Pizza *Free Delivery * Wehonor Major Credit Cards on deliveries too! •••••••••••••••••••• co-captains this year's squ.ad and along with leading the team in points he also is first in penalty minutes. His 53 penalty minutes are due to the fact that his size (6 ft. 2 inches} and weight (210 lbs.) make him the team's natural \enforcer.\ Due to a lengthy sickness, before and at the beginning of the season, it took Tom a while to get his legs back into ''hockey shape\ but as seeR in his recent performances he is back in stride and then some. Tom is a brother of Chi Psi and majors in History and we congratulate him on his post-season heroics. Intercollegiate Golf Team Anyone interested in playing j,nfercollegiate gol·f for the spring term must attend this organizational meeting. DATE: March 11th (Tuesday) TIME: 4:30 P.M. PLACE: Field House (Coach Scanlon's Office) Here's a thought for the day: The chances of a major sporting event coming to Schenectady in this century are slim. Afterall, Schenectady does not have any major leagu£ sports teams, thus no World Series, or Stanley Cup games will be played locally. Fur- thermore, I doubt a Super Bowl will be played here unless Donald Trump builds a domed stadium in the Tri-City area. However, there is one major sport Schenectady is capable of hosting, auto racing. The GE Schenectady Grand Prix. Miami, Detroit and Las Vegas - all have started Grand Prix's that are successful. The Meadowlands just started one last summer that attracted the big names in auto racing, and received live coverage on national television. Schenec- tady should be able to do the The General Electric cor- poration definitely has the money to sponsor such an event. Also, GE would receive great publicity in the Capital District area, and national attention as a major sponsor of the Grand Prix. Since, the City of Schenectady does not have major events of any kind, the citizens would surely support such an event. Not too long ago, the U.S. Dutchmen Runners Host Union Invy Continued from page 20 fifth place finis by Chris O'Donnell Ln the 1500 meter and 800 meter event respectively. Todd Allen also finished third in the 50 meter dash with a time of 6.2 seconds. As a team, the Dutchmen showed some strength as they performed well Pucksters ... Continued from page 20 coach here at Union, a very sweet one indeed. Coach Morrison is finishing his eighth season at the helm in which time he has been very sue- in the two mile and the distance medley relay with two second place finishes. As the Dutchmen head into the postseason they spend this coming week gearing up for this weekends New York State Meet. cessful; taking the Dutchmen to the \final Four'· m eacn of the last 2 seasons, taking 3rd last year, and runner-up the year before. The Dutchmen played last night at R.I.T. in the semi-final round match. Grand Prix was held in upstate New York at Watkins Glen, and since that time there has not been a major race in this region. But, there still arE.' racing fans in the area that would support such a race. Moreover, auto racing is popular all over the United States. On May 3rd, the \One Lap of America\ race will begin, a non-stop eight day 8000 mile race in which teams of competitors will drive around the U.S. The entrants range from pro drivers and airline pilots to ministers and state troopers. All different kinds of people are interested in auto racing. Most Grand Prix's are either held in huge parking lots or the center of a city. Downtown Schenectady would be an ideal place for the curse, with it's long straightaways and wide turns. Furthermore, by having the race downtown it would enable the roads to be repaired with corporate money rather than tax dollars. The GE Schenectady Grand Prix would offer a large purse, which would attract the top drivers, and thus bring many people into the city. As a result, the Race would generate money for local businesses, and give a boost to the overall economy of Schenectady. Well, it's only a idea. Team icorts St.l.awrenco, 123; Stony Brook. tl; I! PI, 90. Union. 70. Kings Point, 62, Hamilton, :!D. ConiSiu•. 26, Marls!, IS. Sleno. 13; Hud•on Valley CC, 12. Le- Moyne, 12. Hertwlck, ~ !won~ 5G hurdles- Hinds ISBI, 7.0; Emery (KPI, 7.~. Ashe(RPII, 76. 541- $loan (RPI), ,.0; Dillard 1~2, -'!1e11,.!UI, 6.2. 1~ 400 - DIKon (SLU), 50.0 (MAl rtcord)~'1\1ar<l (SBI, 51 4, Pilmptt>n ISLU), 520 500- Olsoteiie ISLUI, 1:07.9; Mohler (U), 1:07.9; Taylor (581, 1012. 1100- Altwicker (RP)), 2:00.1, Btork ISLU), 2:01.1, Plat1~er (SLUl. 2•01.4. 1,000 - Thorp ISLU), 2::12.1, Lus (II PI), 2:35.1; Wllimos (LaM ), 2:36.5. 1,100 - TommiS<>u (SLU), 3:55.1 (Meet ret:ord); O'Hara (SEll, 4-112.7, Koone (KP), 4:~.5 l.DOO- Pomelnnlllo (SLU), 1:55.1; Connelly (Can ), 1:!-6.3, Avery CSienel, •. .111.7. 5,01)0- Dumoulin ISLUI, 15:04.2; Ropes (581, ll.42 4, Kl .. kl !RPI), 1l·M I. 3..000 walk - Fls~or ISBJ, 12•211; Flannery (SBI. 13.206, Clelka I unattached), 15.31.6 Mile relay- St Lawrence, 3:32.6; Homllt~n. 3:31 1; Stony Brook, 3:3&.3. Two milt rolay - Homlllon, 1:06.3. Union, 1:09 4; Marlst, 8.14.111 Distance medley- Cenhius. 10··U 8; Union • 10 ~ 8, Hamlllon, 10·!-6 0. High tump- Hind• (58), 6-1, Rella IKP), H. Ashe IRPIJ, 6·4 Pole ~oult - Lacy (U), 1~ Uchool record>. Woods I Nor.), 1-H'I•. Coates (KPJ. 13-11~ Long tump- Relio IKPI, 22-IV.., Hind• (581. 21-9; Gona CHVCCI. 21-S'h Trlpltjump- Rella (KPI, ~5-1'11c; Hind• (58), <13- 31~<. Ashe IRPil, <13-l'llc Shot put- Remillard (U), 47-611,., Cochran (KPl, 45-10, O~nloy !SLUI. ~7. 35-pound w.lght - Remillard (U), 57-4'4 (Meet rocordl. Wrlphl ISLUI, «·21'2, LeBrun (RPI), 42· 31f •• II ~ ll If WRUC - SCHENECTADY II. 7 fm ST£1tl0 • •TH[ FIRST STATION IN TH£ NATION• Playoff Hockey Saturday 7:00 (If Neceessary) Sports line Sunday Night With Bob Koch, Charlie Slotnik and Tom Coleman

,' ' . \ ' ........ l..:r:1,;.mt.'f,,,..J~-.,'>Ik<\_.,ot ..... .t'•'\' Page 20 CONCO!lDIEN_S.lS,.Marc~ 6, 1986 I.. Ql ..0 ::J I.. \0 J. (!) \\ e. ~ 0 > CT m / '< 0 en >- \ 0 ..0 ., 0 .... .... Ill 0 ;.C en Cl. or ·:::: ERG Challenge A Success Skating Dutchmen Beat Oswego St. Thursday, March 6, 1986 • • • Morrison wins JOOth SkatersAdv ce To Semis By DOUGLAS LLOYD In fir.st round action at Oswego St., Tom Hodgins scored twice to lead the Dut- chmen in a hard fought battle that went right down to the wire. The game ended with Union on top 4-3 sending them to face R.I. T. for the semi-final game. The scoring opened early for Union as sophomore Scott Cyr took a pass from Gary Temush and slammed it in to make it 1-0, for his 13th goal of the season at just 1: 14 of the first period. This goal, however, was answered about midway in the period by the Great Lakers' forward Robert Duke off a bad bounce off the corner boards. This tied the score at 1-1 at which time was the game winner. This the teams entered the locllten::w· score came at 11:55 of the final room for their first period but the Great Laker termission. offense would not quit. In the second period the1~GJ~eat Penalties plagued the Dut- Lakers came out in · this period and scored at the midway ,;r,..,.,,.,..;,,~~ all Union fans as they power· play while serdor ~~~~~~~~ the power play Richardson served f~~~~:f::::::·~~~~;~: scored earlier in the giving Oswego a 2-1 at this point, could ~1hatv1!''\'\ntlf+-\-···-C::vv.-·~llf':f their heads between and let the Great La~:ers prove their already im~\. ~t~;::.·.h~~e~~ir home ice record but un::·,¥-; . .,u\.:r~_~ll it up and hung tough. A~:;;, .• a~I!>A¥· example of this was next goal which happened senior Todd Flanigan through two men and slipped past the goalie for an unassisted goal to notch the score at 2-2 . match. But the strong play of Cole, Flanigan~ Hodgins, and Temush allowed few shots on McDougall who kicked out the ones that didget to him to hold on for the win. This win was Coach Charlie Morrison's looth· as a head · C::oniinued on page 19 Tracksters Finish 4th By ANDY HODGKIN The mens' Indoor Track Team competed in the 30th annual Union Men's Invitational and finished with seventy points to finish fourth out of thirteen teams. St. Lawrence, SUNY Stoney Brook and RPI finished ahead of the Dutchmen in a meet which remained close to the end. There were four meet records set oil Saturday afternoon and as many fine performances. The Dutchmen senior, Scott Remilard, was one of the two double winners of the meet contributing to the 35 lb weight and the shot put with a record throw in the weight of li.4am and 14 .49m in the shot. The only other winner for the Dutchmen for the day was Wayne Lacy who won the pole vault and also qualified for the Division III Nationals. On his first two vaults at 14 ft. 934 inches Lacy just missed clearing the bar but on his third try he successfully Union now will be sending two athtletes to the Nationals; Lacy and Remillard. Other scorers for the Dut- chmen Team were Rob Mohlar with a second place finish in the 50q meter dash, a fourth and ··• · ; Continued on page 19 · c: 0 Ul I.. ell '0 c: <( .~ 5 ...1 >. ..0 ~ a (2) Elmira 6 (3) Plattsburgh 6 (5) UNION 4 (3) Plattsburgh (5) UNION (l) Bowdoin 7 (2) Merrimack 7 (3.) Babson4 (4) Norwich 8 Norwich E.C.A.C. West Division II Quarter Finals Semi-Finals Wednesday., March Sth at at E.C.A.(. East Division II Quarter Finals Semi-Finals Wednes(Jay, March 5th at (7) Geneseo St. 3 (6) Canisius 3 (4) Oswego St.3 (2) Elmira (1) R.I.T: (.8) N. Adams St. 1 <7> Colby 3 '(6) UCONN 2 (5) Salem St.~ Bowdoin _ ............ .s .... a\\'b'\'sopilon• .,..., ~:o~:.,:.;.:.;,~-''t..:.;<\~l\':,;;, .~~~ n~·:-;.:.f··•'.r;.;.;;'\';;:o;t:-~· .. ',;.:o\J'f'~ye.li:r.f...,;·r:~,~,,!'i'I~,J!~:~~~.-.-,

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, Marc/16, 1986 N .... C1l .a \0 HB :::l .... ~ ::r. 0 (!) .... \'0 0 > 0\ 10 / \< a (J) \0 >- 0 .a ..., .... 0 Ul .... 0 (J) .c -+ a. £ll - - ERG Challenge A Success Skating Dutchmen Beat Oswego St. Thursday, March 6, 1986 • • $ Morrison wins JOOth SkatersAdv ceToSemis By DOUGLAS LLOYD the score at 1-1 at which time the teams entered the room for their first termission. In the second period Lakers came out scored at the midway ' power play while ·· was the game winner. This score came at 11 :55 of the final period but the Great Laker offense would not quit. Penalties plagued the Dut- in this period and •¥•n•rr•~,,., all Union fans as they the power play scored earlier in the match. But the strong play of Cole, Flanigan, Hodgins, and Temush allowed few shots on McDougall who kicked out the ones that did get to him to hold on for the win. This win was Coach Charlie Morrison's 100th as a head Continued on page 19 In fir-st round action at Oswego St., Tom Hodgins scored twice to lead the Dut- chmen in a hard fought battle that went right down to the wire. The game ended with Union on top 4-3 sending them to face R.I.T. for the semi-final game. The scoring opened early for Union as sophomore Scott Cyr took a pass from Gary Temush and slammed it in to make it 1-o, for his 13th goal of the season at just 1 : 14 of the first period. This goal, however, was answered about midway in the period by the Great Lakers' forward Robert Duke off a bad bounce off the corner boards. This tied Richardson served ncilaljtv~~···~~~~~~~~~~~~ giving Oswego a 2-1 at this point, could f-1t;;;;;;;::;:::.;;~B;.ij;ri;;;¢;;~;;~~ifiiii~~~~ their heads between and let the Great prove their already irtb~r!ii;:~rP home ice record but it up and hung tough. A.,., ...• o.-fiih'>\t'' example of this was next goal which narme11ea senior Todd skat~ through two men and slipped past the goalie for an unassisted goal to notch the score at 2-2 Tracksters Finish 4th By ANDY HODGKIN The mens' Indoor Track Team competed in the 3oth annual Union Men's Invitational and finished with seventy points to finish fourth out of thirteen teams. St. Lawrence, SUNY Stoney Brook and RPI finished ahead of the Dutchmen in a meet which remained close to the end. There were four meet records set on Saturday afternoon and as m<m~ fine performances. 'lllt.: Dutduuen semor, Scull Hemilard. was one of the two double wiJlllers uf the meet contributing to the 35 lb weight and the shot put with a record •Jauw .i.J1 tile weight uf 1i.48m and 14.49m in the shot. The only other winner for the Dutchmen for the day was Wayne Lacy who won the pole vault and also qualified for the Division III Nationals. On his first two vaults at 14 ft. 9=\4 inches Lacy just missed clearing the bar but on his third try he successfully Union now will be sending two athtletes to the Nationals; Lacy and Remillard. Other scorers for the Dut- chmen Team were Rob Mohlar with a second place finish in the 500 meter dash, a fourth and Continued on page 19 Wayne Lacy attempts record jump which he later made. ' • • .. ' ••• ~- < • • • •• - c 0 If) .... (!) \'0 c <( .~ .... 0 ...J >- .c 0 .... 0 .c a. .'\\1: '.:. ·.F'·.· }JI:·:.;,>•::W'i/'''.'J \Forhan 2 Bill Snow 0 Gavin Morton 1 4 Rich Prexotti o 1 l4 Wayne McDougall o 1 4 Sean Norton 1 1 8 Scott Richardson o o l(l Rick Roel<&ft· o o o Toby O'S.rlen 0 0 o Jim MacLaughlin 4 0 0 4 Union Totals 26 128 · 257 534 Opponent Tota~s_ 26 ao 208 475 RECORD: ECAC DIVISION ll 15·7·0; OVERALL 15-11·0; Home 9-:l·Oi Away 6-8·0 Neutral 0-1·0 Goalies: Games Saves Min. -GA 5% w L Wayne M.cOougali 21 546 1256:45 3.05 89.5 12 9 Toby O'Brien 5 132 ~8:52 3.21 89.2 3 2 E.C.A.C. West Division II (2) Elmira6 Quarter Finals (7} Geneseo St. 3 (3) Plattsburgh 6 (6) Canisi us 3 (5) UN ION 4 (4) oswego St. 3 Semi-Finals Wednesday, March 5th (3) Plattsburgh at (2) Elmira (5) UNION at (l) R.I.T. E.C.A.C. East Divisio.n II < 1) Bowdoin 7 Quarter Finals (8) N. Adams St. I (2) Merrimack 7 (7) Colby 3 (3) Babson 4 (6) UCONN 2 ( 4) Norwich 8 Semi-Finals (5) Salem St.~ Wednesday, March 5th Norwich at Bowdoin Babson at .Merrimac~ .. > I .

