.-CXVII. No. 1 . . . ~ . ID ID -I . >-. /..C ~ .r:. 0.. 1-'r.:oc::irtant 1\llnl'rrc:: cuts the ribbon, officially opening the New College Center. ·Campus ~center Opens By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Follo-wing the Opening Convocation last Thursday, President Morris cut the ribbon, marking the official opening of the recently renovated Campus Center. For Morris it was the culmination of his. efforts to create a ''cr11ssroads for the community.\ The Campus Center will be ·open on Monday through Thursday from 7 am to 1 am, on 1 Friday from 7 am to 2 am, Saturday from 10:30 to 2 am, and on Sunaay 10:30 tu 1 am. During these hours the Infor- mation· Ticket Booth ( 370-6369) will also be open; tickets will be on sale from noon to 11 pm. Mail service ho.urs ( 370-6039) will be on Monday through Friday from 10:30 am to 4:00 pm. Many offices are located in the Campus Center, including the offices of the Dean of Students, Residence Life, Student Forum, Student Publications, W.R.U.C., and the office of Student Activities. Student Activity Rooms are available for committee-club meetings by appointment through Jerri Clark, the Director of the College Center. Parking for the Campus . Center has been provided in the loading dock area, but is limited in this area to the two designated spots on the right hand side. Cats parked in the circle near the Campus Center or in unmarked areas of the loading dock will be ticketed and eventually towed. . We ate asked to refrain from smoking in the Campus Center as it i~ a Non.Smoking bUilding. No pets or bikes are permitted in the building. Posting of notices must be done through the Student Activities; articles hung on the· windows or woodwork will be removed. These guidelines concerning use of the Campus Center have been set to insure the most beneficial operation of this building. Cliff Wood, Director of Security and Safety, stated that . \the campus should be praised for maintaining ·the Center in good condition.\ General Education Approved by One Vote Board, AAC to· Combine Both Plans By D.B. GULUVER The Curricular Alternative Committee's plan. chaired by Professor Frank Gado, came .. within . one vote of tying the General Education Curriculum at last spring's faculty meeting to choose the new curriculum. The faculty nearly approved the -CAC's system, which was designed as the result of a secret petition signed by 30 professors dissatisfied with the General .Education plan. The faculty meeting was officially a \recommendation.\ to the Academic Affairs Committee, which officially ratifies the plan, hut the faculty vote is effectively the appro.val of a new curriculum. At the faculty vote, one ballot arrived forty minutes late, when the other . votes had already been counted, ac- cording to Professor Ted Bick, chairman of · the faculty executive conunittee. Before opening the ballot, there was considerable debate over whether • or not to . accept it. Eventually, it was decided not to accept it. Bick .said pe didn't know what the ballot said, but Gado.claims that it was for the CAC plan. Howeve~, it bad }lege 1877 ·w York Convocation Celebrates Academics President Morris Criticizes Pluralism By DEBRA B. HONIG The Opening Convoction honored both outstanding students and professors ·for their commitment to academic excellence last Thursday at Memorial Chapel. Highlights of the convocation were Dean Terry Weiner's .. recognition of the Dean's List Students, the opening remarks from Vice President of Academic Affairs· Thomas D'Andrea, Jnd President John Morris's address · to the assembly. The faculty mem- bers' procession in cap and gown, in combination with J?rofessor Hugh Aklen Wilson's organ musie, and the choir's presentation of \Have Verum 'Corpus\ and \Ode to Union\ enhanced the mood of the ceremony. · Dr. D'Andrea explained that . the convocation \is more than a purely ceremonial procedlli e, since it serves to remind us of our purpose and the nobility of our work. Even more im- portant, when education ap- pears to be . under siege, unappreciated and misun- derstood by the society, even . carped at by our colleagues from within the Academy, it will do us well to ponder for a moment and reflect on what we are about.\ On that note, Dr. D'Andrea summarized the faculty's .Continued on page 2 already been decided not to accept it. The: closeness of the vote raises questions. Technically, the plan receiving the majority of votes was to be considered · the faculty's outright choice. Some faculty members are requesting just that; o.thers, · looking at the vote, are requesting that the two plans be meshed in some way. And,. according to procedure, another petition is still possible. The General Education Board, currently chaired by · Professor Jim Underwood, is under instructions to \produce an amalgam\ of the two plans, Bick Said. However, Gado said · that the two plans could not be effectively combined. Their product will then go to the AAC, and then back to another faculty vote. The initial schedule . called for a new curriculum to be ready now .for implementation next. fall. That timetable may be somewhat off, but, Bick said, if the plan is d~veloped quickly enough, the new courses it mandates could still be ready by fall or winter 1988. '!There;s a sense of the ·importance of it among the faculty,\ B~ck said, \they're hoping to get on with it.\ Septentber 24, 1987 Another Oversized Freshman Class Strains -c·ollege Facilities By DAVID GULL~ER and iLEEl ANN SCHMIDT Again Union overloaded _ its freshman class, with 550 students arriving for a class targeted for 520-530. Overlaods were a national trend this year, but even after last year's over- enrollment Uniori made no- preparations -for the larger student body. 544 freshmen needed ho.using, out of the approximately 550 freshmen, according to Dave Wood, dean of residence life. He said that his office targets 520 and .plans housing for 510. He compensated for the 34 extra students with extra persons in room:;. There are 12 five-man suites, 11 male and 1 female. 8 lounges have been converted to student rooms: 4 in West, 3 in Richmond and 1 in South. 1 double room in South was converted to a triple · and two triples were made quads. Finally, some freslamen women were housed in North singles after swnmer with- drawals. Last year there were 544 freshmen; in the two previous years there were 532 freshmen. Union has claimed a 520 person freshman class; that means that now the College bas 78 extra students, of Which ap~ pro.ximately 60 need housing. \There is a need for more housing on campus,\ Wood admits. Dean of Admissions and · Financial Aid Kenneth Nourse says that five-man suites have been used as a solution for some time. In fall 1985 a special com- mittee examining residence life concluded that the over- crowding of students and the use of dorm lounges as rooms hurt student morale and grades. The committee report, released last year, stated that Union needed 90 more ac- co.mmod\ations and recom- mended that a 150-person apartment building be built on campus. Currently, such plans are still low priority, said one administration spokesman, Continued on page 3 Beer returns to the Skellar 21 Club Moves to Skellar By FIONA SHUKRI Beer is once again so.ld at the Skellar on weekend . nights, students will be required to shClw two forms of valid iden- tification at the door. The sale of alcohol on certain weeknights was considered, but the .idea was ultimately decided against. Beer had previously been sold in the skellar, but when New York State raised the drinking age. to twenty-one in 1985 Union chose to stop the sale o.f alcohol on campus altogether. The rea;- soning was that as only twenty- five percent of the student bo.dy coUld take advantage of it, selling alcohol . was not economicaUy advantageous and therefore not worth the ·inevitable risks involved with liability. Students; however, requested that . the college provide someplace where they could convene on campus where alcohol could be made available. The colleg(' responded the following yrar with the \21 Club.\ The \21 Club\ inhabited the lower lounge in Hale House for one year, but was not terribly successful or popular amongst the students. In effect the college has just moved the \21 Club\ to the Skellar, on a trial · basis, with the hopes of greater success. There will be no students working in the Skellar on weekend nights \to insure that it is run professionally,\ states Dean .of Students, Joseph Manunola. The colle~e is hoping that the Skellar's at• mosphere will make the nP.w \21 Club., more frequented tllan the old one was.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSTS~ S~pt~mll~r 24, 198r College Offers New Housing Alternatives Foreign And . Minority Students Hope To Promote Cultural Exchange New Assistant Dean of Students, Fred Alford., ge1s to knew a student. President Morris Stresses: Irhportance of Unity · Con1·1nued from .page 1 • recemt accomplishments. In the · science department, twelve faculty members have e1eternal • sup(Jort. for their work,. some : ha~tng received two grants. · Accoiding to Dr. D'Andrea, IBM: and the Ametek have contTacted two members in the engi:neering department for rese.arch, and another member has obtained a patent for some of his work. In tb,e bUII1anities result, tend to offer rather in· • coherent pregrams, · In response, President Morris said, ''I think we have to ask what has happened, not o~ly within the institutions, but nationally, Colleges may not be what they were in the fifties, because the nation is different.\ By FIONA SHUKRI Union has introduced two new alternative housing options for the 1987-88 school year. The International House, located in Webster House, is home to 13 foreign and American students. The Cultural Unity Center, also located in Webster, houses 12 black and Latin American students. Both of these alter- native housing. programs Were student initiated. Proposals for each were submitted to the Student Affairs Council, who, in turn, made its recommendation to the Residence Life Office. A D and social science$, two faculty New .. ·SSista·n:t . ·. e:an. ~~~:;rsfro:vetaeth~e:T~!~- Coullcil of Learned Societies, While Boyer- ·stressed ''in- tegration\ as a fundamental principle of a gefleral education program, President Morris believes pis reasoning to be too ambiguous. According to President Morris, ~he mere inegration of subjects from different departments \would be im,possiblE because it is the methodologies that make the fundamental difference in approachtosubject ma~rs. '·' ., .. k' of· ,. two· have support from the · . a, .· es , · . · I·Ce ~:n~iie~n:~~~~ihe~f fr~~ \We are a group of people with a lot of shared interests.\ While the two projects are entirely independent of one another, Dean Wood feels that the organizers of each \fed on each other in the forms of energy, vitality, and en- thusiasm.\ To the Dean's knowledge, there has never been anything similar to The International l:IollSe at Union. A number of years ago, however, the college did give campus housing to \The Minority House,\ but it was unable to fill its housing quota due to lack of intrest and disassembled. Both of these new associations exist on a trial basis and still have many details to work out with the administration, but both the students and the administration are optimistic. The International House describes itself as a \group of people trying to be active in international issues.\ Their ambitious goals include sponsoring dinners and foreign films, creating an international section in Concordiensis, acquiring a reading room with foreign publications, and are hoping to be hooked up · to a satellite dish that would enable them to receive foreign radio stations. All the students stress Continued on page 3 By MARYBETH MANNING Union has undergone a few changes since last year. The long-awaited College·Center has already demonstrated its im- pact on life at Union. Another significant change . with . subtle, yet more far- reaching effects, is the arrival of Frederick Alford, the new · Assistant Dean of Students. Dean Alford is filling the . position vacated by ,. Robert Massa last spring .. Even before the school year · . began at Union, I had heard comments on our new dean from members of the orien- tation committee who had dinner with him the week before orientation began. Since then, everyone I've spoken to has commented on his friendliness, positive attitude and the real interest he has expressed in the students at Union. Born in New Haven, Con- necticut, D~an Alford lived in the New England area until his move to Schenectady with his wife and daughter Hacey, age · five. He received his Bachelors degree at Hawthorne College, his Masters degree at Antioch, and he is presently working on his Doctoral dissertation for the Harvard Graduate School of· Education on the Developinent of Analytical and Critical Thinking Skills. Before coming to Union, Dean Alford was· a camp counselor (some of his former campers are presently students at Union) and the Dean of Students at Hawthorne College. In addition, he worked at the Harvard Institute where he did research on learning and m<>st recently, he served as the Dean of Students for the Harvard School of Education. For enjoyment, Alford plays the . guitar and reads. He has also been spotted by students in the Alumni gym, swimming and This Week's Events: Thursday, September 24 11:30 p.m. Minerva Hour, CC Aud. 4:30 - 5:30p.m. Chemistry Safety Lecture 4:30 - 6:00p.m. HOM 014 CDC Sponsors resume writing 7:00 - 9:00p.m. Old Chapel LOCH Digital Computer user Group meeting Friday, September 25 1:00 - 4:00 p.m. Tom Rush Trio, DHR . 4:30- 5:30p.m. HUM 019 Chemistry safety lecture. 6:00 p.m. Artificial Field, Field Hockey vs. Rochester 7, 9, 11:00 p.m. CC Aud. Film: Mosquito Coast . Saturday, September 26 10:00 a.m. Artificial Field, Field Hockey vs. Wells 1:00 p.m. Garis Field, Women's Soccer vs. Mt. Holyoke · 1:00 p.m. Tennis Courts, Women's Tennis vs. North Adams 7, 9, 11:00 p.m. CC Aud. Film: Mosquito Coast Sunday, September 21 7:00 - 8:30 p.m. Bailey 102, Scuba diving class 7; 9. 11:00 p.m. CC Aud. Film: M()squito Coast playing racquetball. The .fust impressio11s Dean Alford hc:id of UniorJ were foJ;'• med du~:ing bis visit to the camplls for his interview. He • had pl'eviollsly heard P'QSitive things about the cdllege from Union grrduates he l[let at Harvard .. .Althougil it was rainingt.heday of his interview, Alford was impressed with . the beauty ()f tbe cam~us. While here, he found ti:J.at the ad~ ministrat()l'\S were very thougilt fU:I and eo11cerned throughoat his intervi-ew. The students: that participated in the intervie'iV :ptDcess he saw as \articlll;ate clear~headed and . critical, ill· tbe best possible way .. \ ()nee he began b.is new job here, Dean Alford found his · first iinJlrEssi~ns were not far off. . When aslted for llis o.pinions ~ontlnued 011 oaae 4 CALZONES lASAGNA BROCCOLI LASAGNA the Hellenic Institute. further mor-e, several pnfessors in the . arts: department have their wot~k on display off campus. Tlte Faculy/Teaching and Schoolarship Student summer · research program, Dr. D'A.ndrea commented,. is \probably the most active, coiDprehensive -program in the naion-comprehensive in the sen:se- that it is ,not restricted to the sciences.\ P'resident Morris addressed recEnt criticisms on higher edmcation., spedfically those of Ernest Boyer~s Carnegie R~port College: The Un· der-graduate Experie11ce in Aue1'ica. According to President Morris, Boyer said, \ ..• in a society that makes difEerent and contrary demands upoll higher education, many of the-nation's colleges have lost a se~se of purpose, and as a President Morris, in agreement with Robert Bellah, pointed out that individuals now tend to sever their ties with society. He said, \ ... we each create our own cosmos which · needs to bear no relationship to any other cosmos.''gPluralisrn, he noted, used to be an enriching ingredient in the nation's heritage. However, President Morris beUeves that now, \We are left with a society in which these forces of fragmenta ti<>n are bound to tear us apart.\ Despite l?resident Morri~'s clear disagreemeJJ.t with Boyer as to the root of the problem, he does think that \colleges are places we can look to for some help.\ He suggested finding a compromise between extreme Continued on page 3 ' . HOT SANDWICHES BROCCOLI PIZZA STUFFED SHELLS VOTED ONE OF THE AREA'S TOP TEN. PIZZERlAS FOR 1987 (WGY PIZZA POLL) FREE T-SHIRTS (With any purchase over $10.00. Not valid with any other coupons!) WE DELIVER FREE 374-4332 ...

... / • CONCOR.DIENSIS,. September 24,. 1987 · Page 3 ·Cia:ss of '91 Welcom,ed President Morris Reads- .. Bedtime Stories By EZRA SHERMAN ·orientation. '87 offichiHy · began Saturday, September 12, and ended Tuesday the lftth-: In tflose four days incoming fresh- men began the transition from Ufe at hOme to life at Union, The .group which helped new students to adjust was largely student run and was ,aided by · Faculty Orientation Advisors, RA's, J.'erry Clark Director of the College Cenier, and an amiable new Assfstant Dean of Students, Fred Alford. The goal of orientation is · threefold: to help students learn about academic e:x:pectations, and t!O introduce them to other st1,1dents and Union's social life. !>ean Alford.state~tbat his hope iS that \students coming out of orientation would be aware of academic opportunities and expectations at Union and would g.et a rwming start on ac~ieving thein.\ To heighten th1s awareness were talks by the . Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies on Unio.n's acade!Jlic environment, departmental meetings, and advising sessions. One fresh~ man . said .that these one-on-one advi.sing s\essions were the singlE · greatest sow-ce ·cf in· formation on academics. IN part~ F acuity Orientation Advisor Professor Barbanel tried to impress on undecided freshmen that they don't have to know what they are going to major in and that approaching different disciplines With an open mindjsthe bast tactic. The academic part of Orientation ended formally with Con- vocation. Asst. Dean Alford likened the Convocation · ''to graduation at the end. of the year/' The Convocati()n marks the \academic begin:rling of an academic community,. as graduation marks the end.\ Professor Barbanel said that some ofthe most important jobs of the Orientation Grou,ps are to g_yt frestnnen to meet other students and to prevent them from beihg homesick. The· OA groups coupled with the din.- ners, floor meetings, and the trip to Proctors .for a night of comedy, had the dual effect of paradjng_ new faces in front of each freshman and 1 alSo .keeping them bu$Y so that they didn't have time to be IJ;lome_sick. Freshmen said that OA 's gave them a link to uppetclassrnen and it is nice to say \hi\ to a familiar face. As one .freslrrnan se·es it, the added advantage of . the groups is the great pick-up . ·line theY provide: \hey babe, weren't youin my OA gnup?\ President. Morris .made his . face very familiar t-() freshmen · in a series of President's Receptions and at the nigbt time movies, where he read ~time stories; something that Dean Alford says is sw-e to ~come a Union Institution. As a final pat on the back, administrators and fat:ulty OA's universally praiseO. the organization of the st11dents. Dean Alford said that \the. most impressive part· of Union's Orientation · was the cofn- mitment of the students in· volved.\ UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS · OB:JECITVE: Monthly discussion open to the cainpus community - faculty, staff, students - involving a book selected for its visibility and potential interest to th~ community. WHEN: The second Wednes&y of each month throughout the academic school year from 1 :00 - 2:00 pm at the college center. These dates for the Winter term are: October 14 and November 11. Alan :Bloom, The Closing of the American Mind: Education and the Crisis of Reason (1987) -WUI Soon Be Au<tilable at t1>..e Book$tore «t'oo$t $11..95 .c: ~· E C/) Housing Requested for Unity and Grganizational Purposes, Not Isolation 8 Continued from page 2 Q) .g that they chose to live together ';, not to isolate themselves, but , .. .c rather to organize and promote . .9 · better cultural exchange on _g · campus. States one foreign 1o.. student: \I want to learn more Dean of R~sider1ce Life Dave Wood admits that there is a need for about American culture. I could more housmg·. . · . do that in a regular dorm, I did Ad • • t t · s for a year. It would be nicer, .• IDIDIS ra ors ee however, if I could learn from Americans al!d they could ,learn U • I L o from me. The Americans in this · 0 I On at ts · • 1 ... mit donn are interested in learning about my culture as well.\ · · Continued from- page 1 situation\ and would like to see An Arnerit:an student gave · bebind renovations ·of the· Nott more housing. her reasons for wanting to live and passibly the library. Registrar DWight Wolf did not in The International House: \I The . reasoas for o-ver- have excessive diffica1ties wanted to learn about different enrollment are complicatecl ·. either. To make up for the large people and cultures. One of the Union chose not to restrict the class, his office added extra nice things about living here is number of tllis year's ac- : introductory level classes. He · that everyone here is really · saidthat he had fewer problems interested in learning aboat one \We've alw~ys had an overcrowded situation.\ -D·ean Wood ceptances to compensate for previous years~ said Dean Nourse. Due to the lack of· faci-lities and unappealing t:onstruction, yiled (percentage of students accEpted who chose pnion) droppecl·fmm 40 percent m 1984 to 34 percent last year. To compeu1;ate, Union handed out. more acceptances. In ad,. dition, widely believed demographics said that the number o~ applicants would severely drop. They «;lid not. Dean Nourse explairied that the <;!Ombination- of national trends and Union's problems made predic-tions difficult. Altho.ugh· the College was already overloaded, he said that there was no pl'essure from the adm:inistratiOtn to ljmit enrollment. He again targeted · for 530, although that target produced 24 extra freshmen last year. \One year~u Nourse said, \does not a pattern make ... but now there is concern.\ The people that accommodate those students are concerned~ Dean Wood said that the College \always has an overcrowded : with this fall registration than another.\ Says another .any since he· came here. Amerkar'1 stud1:nt: \People- . Wolf added, however, that the who are here are people who . College is at capacity. \The want to work.\ physical abilities are nearly The students living in The stretched to the limit,\ Wolf · Cultural Unity Center also said. He said tnat during the 9 stress that they are not trying to a.m. and 11:30 a.m. time slots isolate themselves. One student there are no vacant classrooms compares it to living in a on cai)lpus. fraternity or sorority: \We are Next year th.e admissions a g1.·oup ot' peopie with a lot of office plans to end the trend of shared interests. This is a way oversized classes. Dean Nourse of getting to know each other, a · realizes that -with completed place to convene, ~d a place facilities, a new admissions where freshmen can come and video and the publicity cf identify with us. It offers tMm a dropping the SAT, both ·ap- sense of togetherness that they • • plicants and yield will increase. left at home.\ They also hope to · • He said he can already see the help freshmen adjust to Union trend--last year the office and college life. For example, conducted 545 interviews in students in the Academic \The physical abilities (of the College) are nearly stretched to the limit.\ -Registi!:1ir Wolf August; this year there were 636. Dean Nourse admitted no specific plans but said that they would have to reduce ac- ceptances next year. Opportunity Program arrive at Union weeks earlier than other students as a resuit they tend to form a lot of friendships even before the other freshmen have arrived; \The A.O.P. students are tight. We (upperclassmen) help them to get out to parties and meet new people.\ , When asked if the ad· ministration feared that the two groups may be isolating themselves, Dean Wood replied, \There· is potential for any organization to isolate them- selves from the community. It is up to the members not to, just as it is with fraternities.\ Some Stats on Class o:f '91 The success and financial feasability of both The Inter· national House and The Cultural Unity Center will be evaluated by the Student Applied: 3068 (last year 1536) Accepted: 15()3 .(last year 3043) . Male:. 59 percent Fema~e: 41 percent · From NY: 54 percent . · . Save money when you have, From New Eng.:, 28 percent From Public Schools: 71 per• cent Affairs Committee at the end of the academic year. delivered on the day of publication . . fall Term Winter Term Full Year Weekdays (Mon.- Fri.) · $1o.so $11.25 $34.25 Weekdays CMon. • Sat.) 12.50 13.25 40 .... 50: \eekdays & su .. day 24.50 25.2'5. 78a00 Sunday Only 12.00 12.00 37.50 Contact Chris Sheridan Box 470 .. 346-3401 From Private Schools: 29 percent Majors Declared ·Engineers: 99 last year: 120 Hwnanities: 26 last year 17 Science: 141last year 168 Social Sciences: 124 last year 124 Liberal Arts.: 172 last year 127 :rotal: 562 (some dropped from Union) To All OA's. OC's &: FOA's: Thartkyou for making Orientation 'B7 \A New 'lradition .. The best· ever Convocation 0 I I Continued from page 2 pluralism and diversity, which would restore the nation's character. Colleges, he added, should consider the meaning of the nation and the importance of unity. President Morris urged the faculty to. \look at our task as teachers with a commitment to our students in such a way that their search for personal meaning has meaning for us.\ He stressed that when a teacher injects his experiences from the past into conversation, the student benefits immensely. . Meaningful integration will result, President Morris added, when \we are not abstract entities finding dist:rete an· swers to small questions within our fractured disciplines.\ President Morris offered a number of concrete, corrective measures. Among these are a seminar on the question of pluralism in America, and trying not to \retreat into the safe domains of our disciplines.\ i ~i' I ' '.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, September 24, 1987 Dean Alford Lnterviewed. a. Continued from page 2 on Freshman Orientation, Dean • worries about the future. Dean Alford said he was impressed ' l\lford also expressed the 'lln- with the student involvement. ' ))<lrtance of expanding oneself He feels that the positive at- , while in college since it is: best. titudes of the upperclassmen . • envlronment in~which to do this. help give credibility to tile , · When asked for his views on message to the freshmen, that · Onion's fraternities and they should feel good about :. 'Sororities, Dean Alford com- Union. He also commented on mented that while Greek life on the interest and the in- other campuses is facing volvement of Union faculty. troubled times, lt flourishes at Through his research on Union. This, is mainly due to the education, Alford foWld that deep roots that Greek life has in students who can make contact '• Union history, and the rol~ they with a professor on intellectual .play as center of Union's social level tend to excel from the life. Alford feels .sororities and encouragement they receive .• fraternities offer the potential Because he has only been ' to benefit the college through here since June, Dean Alford : <!ommunity service .. He is says he has no plans to make • · especially impresseQ wi'th the any changs in the school's positions of responsibility that policies, as of now. He intends to houses offer _students. Yet, he further encourage the faculty· . . also sees the ability of Greek student interaction that is so life to ''reduce behavior tu its important to the Union com· lowest common denominator\ munity, such as the interaction through alcohol abuse, l!azing, occuring as a rest;llt of the and the demeaning of women, SLOAN Research Grants. Irt The one question Alf()rd has is addition, Dean Alford would how compatible is Greek life like to erase the line that is. with the goals of diversity. drawn between academic life: As the new year begins, l)ean and residential-social life here. Alford is anxious to get ()Ut and He believes the purpose of the · · meet the students of Union, Dean of Students Office is tOt since he feels he only sees support and embellish the students only at their best and academic mission of the worst through his job. He en- college. C()urages students to feelfree. to When discussing the students introduce themselves and of today, Alford said he sees • stresses that his door is ()pen to them as more conservative ancl •: ~udents with real concerns and more career-driven than were ; proposed solutions. One of his the students he attended college : ultimate joys is l!elping with. While his peers had xriore • students with their ideas for of a view that \things would all : improvements since this should work out,\ students today have · · be a part of the eduoeational more realistic concerns and ; ptoc.ess. Fire ln.- Ac,hil·les ·Rink Averted ByR.REED WHIDDEN A bad electrical connection in a. fuse box at Achilles Rink caused the transformer _to · smoke last SWlday night at . approximately 8:30p.m. There was no actual fire but had the conneCtion gone unnoticed, the smoldering would have turned into a disasterous fire. At 8:19p.m., an alarm sunded and after about a minute, reset itself. At 8:35 p.m., Officer Hilton checked the alarm, then smelled smoke and notified other Security and Safety of- ficials. The fire department was also on stand-by for any eventual fire break-out. Assistant Director of Security · and Safety Paul Mantica stated that had the officer not spotted the problem, considerable damage could have resulted from a fire. Luckily, it was caught in time. The only minor set-back the college suffered was a power outage in a few buildings. The Science and Engineering building, the Peschel Center, Bailey Hall, Butterfield, Alumni Gym, . and Achilles Rink were also closed for the safety of people on campus. There is still some reparing to be done on the electrical connections, but all else is back to normal. . NEWS BRIEF Applications For Watson Fellowship Due Since 1968• the The Thomas J. avai:lable ill Schaffer Library. Watson Foundation has each The fillder labeled \Watson\' is . year awarded 70 fellowships, • on reserve for Btdessor Klei.'n. · currently worth.$13,000 each, to f\pplicatJOtRS f()r the W~tson graduating seniors from ap- 'Traveling; Fellowship are due proximately 50 small liberal Monday, :october 5. For n.ore arts colleges. The money funds informat.bn, c()ntact Professor travel outside North America in Kleh1 it:l the Economics the year following the student's . Departmecnt at either x6056 or· graduation. The fellowships, in x6221l, or- ~any other mernbet of the words of the Foundation the Watso:n committee: George \provide Fellows an op· Gmelch , .Sociology-Anthrop- portunity for a focused and · ologY,.; Mohaii1Inad Mafi, Civil disciplined Wanderjahr of tlleir · Engineering; Margaret own devising- time in wllieh Schadler,\ Biology; or Jordan · they might explore with . Smith, l;!:r~glish. tnorougbness a particular in- terest, testtheit aspirations and · · abilities, view their lives and American soCiety in greater perspective, and con- comitantly; develop a more informed sense of internatiDnal concern.'' ' - . To quote the Foundation, appropriate projects ... \should involve investigation into an area of demonstrated concern · and personal commitment. Furthermore, because · the year's experience should not involve extended .formal ~tudy at a foreign . university, the . project should be one which can be pursued with great in- dependence and adaptability. In short, the project .should be personally significant imaginative, and feasible.'' A list of past winning projects is' Ne.lson·s Book .Store lJ:J Jay Street, Schenectady Open Monday thru Saturday 11::()0 am .. 5:30 pm Thursday Evenings 'tnt 9 pm Man~ger BHI <Gonzo) Rollins i. t Ut: Ui\ '(r :'·lcH' , < c)<·i v;,_,' ' We know that a cheap calculator can cost you blood, sweat and time. Investing in a Hewlett-Packard cal- culator, on the other hand, can save you time and again. HP calculators not only have better func· tions. They function better. Without stick- ing keys and bad connections. Through October 31, you can get the cream of the calcula- tors at a non- fat price. We're cutting $10 off the HP-12C. That buys you more built- in functions than any- one else's financial calculator. And we~re giving away a free Advantage Module, a $49 value, with every HP-41 Advanced Scientific calculator you bu~ . · This 12K-byte plug- in, menu-driven ROM wa.s designed spe- cially for students. So drop by your campus bookstore and compare HP calcula· tors with the rest. By midt.etm, you'll see what a deal this is. r---------, I ADIJ~f~~~o'£uLE I I with purchase of HP-41. Pur· I I chase must be made between I I August 15, 1987. and October 31. I 1987. See your local HP dealer I for details and official redemp· I I tiOJ\ form. Rebate or free Mod· 1 t ,l._.-t\ ~ )' _i ~ '· ulewill be sent in n-8 weeks, l OR$100FF AN HP-12C. I FjjjiW !:!AECIIV.}!:,!oT L - - - - - - - - _J .:!:AI ,_ '\'\\'.. l j

·'· t 'i 1:. r < ' CONCOR,DlEiN~~~, Septe.mber 24, 19117 ... The Way We Were ByWENDYZIMrwtERMAN Today I learned about ~ing· language as a means of rec~lling the past. My education took pl.ace in · my political sCience c1a~s; thanks to Professor Sharle;t and autbor Lawrence Langer-.lll a book l:)y Mr. Langer, he distussed bis views on the subject. The reason I feel his view to he necessary in the completion of this article is that it might be the reason behind tile feelings that I myself intend t«>.ex:press. Mr. Langer believes that there exists a conflict I:Jetween tb.e truth and our mernCJ:ry of cer. ta!n even~ and /or .places. It is this conflict thataffeds the w;:~y we reclaim the past. Because of this, we are not abl-e to recall anything exactly. \All telli11g modifies what js bei11g told.\ By the use of language, people are able to edit their .p~t. In add- ition., once you use th.'t!language you've already began to ab- stract the experience. In light of the informatioll that I have just.presented, I can ll()W proceed with the main- purpose behind this article. 1'o begin, I must con{es:s. that I &!Il going to try, at least for a short portion, to recall the past usi11g language. The past ram tryiJig to recall, is the past at Union. F()r clarity, let me eX])lain that when I say 'the past./ I mean the last tbree years. .·Page 5 FEATURES In the past, rn;:~ny things about :onion have :made their way into that place in my brain called 'memory.' Of c·ourse, not all have been good, bllt as .far as I recall, the majority'Were. The good . tning about memory . is that it is always with you and can be recalled at any time. Becaus<e you leave U' nion for the s~e-t doesn't me.am that you Wlll forget how t() ibitng out in Library Plaza on a ni~e day or, what it\s like to go get your mail and m.attage to seE everyone you hadbeen thinki11g a·boutina ten minute period., taking a walk around carnplls to see what's going on, even though your main reason is probably looking for people y(Ju haven't recently seen, cmgregating outside of Carrre~ie (my memory holds llo •entry for The way it is ~St1,1dellt Center') between classes- for a sort of daytim-e party 'saD; alcohol.' Although. these .al:'e just a few recollections, it is sufficient backgr()lind for me to pose a vital qllestion: Did everyone forget? as well, regardless of details I _ rnigi:Jt have added I()J:r'.CJmitted. Baclt to my· ())-lestion, did everyone, in fact, fillrget? Am I at fa tilt? Should l n!lt rely on my memory and lamg-ua.ge to at· tem]lt to recall events which .r S()rely miss? Am I the only stuclent who trul::v misses the o~currences that I stated above? Well, if tlhe answer to these questions i:J yes, then I apolQgize. But, in truth, I think that I am in the right. I am Cllnfident enough l:n my~elf to kno'W there is mmch validity in my opinion. I \ilalk through Library Plaza, amd literally walk right through~ Where are allt1Iestudents wb(!)blocked my wav as I attempted to get to tb.e d.oor of Socia!: Sciences? I go t() check my ll:lewly placed mailbox in Carnegie (see comment above) and peek around, but no one seems to be there. I gaze down from the spacious windows in the Con- cordy office, hoping to see transient students down below, but yet again I am disap· pointed. The next logical step in . this presentation would, of course, be some logical proposals to alleviate the problem, if I am, in fact, right. But alas, the only thing I can do is ask for help, and again pose some more questions. Is it Gel time? The new 'Student Cen- ter'? I am a Union College ·student like everyone else. If I knew the solution, I would take appropriate steps. The bottom line is that I don't know what to do and I'm hoping someone else does. The way tt was . Mr. Langer stat~s ,fihat every recollection involvi11g the use of memory must be tllken as a work o;f imaginatio11~ choosing details .a1 j leaving o\Lt others to shape the readers~ response. Where ~he memory fails, the imagin.atlon tak-es o-ver to fill in the gaps. At this point I could go into detail about lil~ recollec- tion of my past, but I think that would Jbe unnecessai:~ as well as tedious, I have emmgh faith in my fellow studerlts to be con- fident in the fact that these memories are sharell. by others Revelations From Those The 10 Commandments o_fSurviving College .-· I. 'rhou shalt n>()t follow thE rnde syndrome. Oubin fever i:S of Us Who Ring Twice . bad en()ugh during Schenectad~ winters. Burrow rn11t -of your r()orn and get involvell. Remember all th!()se activities in · :iiYhich you participated i!l bigiJ. school? In '(!tDllege thel\e By lLANA IIAND . and CAROLYN ZUTELL You probably ti1ought thatthe concept of certain follds· beirlg considered \treats\ wouid disappear as soo-n as you started payingJor you OWII food. Right? How many of ~ llave thought more tlwln once that, \I'll eat Doritos for breakfast, lunch and dinner if I feellikelt when I'm olde1·!\? Now, however, you re.alize that the amount you pa)t for cookier;, chips, sugar cereals, etc, would probably equal t'IWD dozen.eg-gs, three quarts of milk and four loaves of bread! And you find yourself standing ill the middle of the aisle, shaking your head and saying, \Wh«i jn tlleir rigbt mind would pay tills much for a package of cookies just because they .have twice t:he filling?\ or, \They have sOOl.e nerve charging this mt~ch for 12 o~. of crackers and 4: ()Z. of air! \And you get nervous Ji:Jecause yo11've heard that some.iVhere befCJre it came out of yom\ mouth and not the lady with th:ree screaming kids beside you. · We learned abllut bouse rules and eventually llreaking them when the five girls in our apartment, one 11ot blessed with two showers, all h11d ~:3()'s last spring. I fC>Ili1d my$elf face-to-face· witih a list posted on the bathro()m deor the night before claS$es started stating •'Absolutely no shaVing legs in the morning, serub while you condition,\· etc. Well, I was wearing a skirt tlle next mor- ning and decidEd to risk then everything El:se is clear ar-e Even more! breaking rule n1JIIlber one. sailin~~ II. Thou shalt not Unfortunately, while shaving at DoiJ1g things ' 'on time\ procrastinate. Do net let an unhealthy speEd, I nicked becomes qUite an important yolU'self fall bebimd in yo11r my shin and while exiting tlle theme when yo11 are running classv.rork and stu(\ying. After bathrOOJP., made tbe mistake of y<>ur !()Wn househ~lll.. You learn all, (!ramming -11 semester's complaimng aoout hemorr- ·very quickly tbat the cable vrorlb ·of Orgalric= Chemistry haging to deatb, only to com)}.any has· no qllalms about illtiJ oone night does not an ''A\- receive cold starEs from IllY turning off your cable right in proosce. Even G'11d spaced his roommates, (my best friends I the middle of Mr. Mom. You wor-k on eaith.ovel'sixdays! might add,) and s\lch comme11ts - know you'll pay- eventually, III- Thou shalt n()t make false as \cheaters ne:':er prosper\ you jllSt have to find-the bill iclols of t}ly professors. A little and \serv~s you nght.,. · amm 1 g -the rn,ot.llld:s of phone respect yes; fear, mever! Talk I was relieved to lelfrn that we messages, cou.pms, clothes to thetn, joke wlitb them. Ask weren't the only apartment catal()gues and jmk · mail ad- them for help, b11t remember, with ''rules'' when I was invited dr-essed to Resi!le 11 t that you're the~ don't bite. (13esides, you to lunch at a friend's apartmeat afraid to throw aw~y. o:utllumber them n to l.) last week. We began malti.ng You also 1eal\11 that gar- I'V- Make sacred the roast beef sandwiches, lull- bagemen get 11 p ~uite a bit weekend! Keep Jlllltgging hard ~heon ~~at incidentally being a earlierthan the average college · dur-ing the week. [')len, if at all treat m our a);)artment_ My student; so unLess .some. am- possible, take a .part of the friend, seeniing a. bit em- bitiollS housemateremembered · weEkend off ancl lave fun! A barrassed, . began loOiking the night before, ocas are pretty re~ed mind will always study around the kitchen nervollSly-. goOd you'll be enj·oying thOse better on Monday-. \Zutes h~ askecl, \Could you tlllla cans and p~za boxes one V. Thou shalt mmt believe the put half a p1ece ba-ek, two slices more week! Mans a night we answers on the guyr's paper next 1s the ru1e here.\ have found ourselves rolling out t() JOil. Have falth in you own Yes, living together in an ()f comfortable wa.rm lofts to milld. You prob;~bly know the apartment can test friendships don bathrobes a 11 d Sportos eot\reet answ<ec anyway. as strong as crazy glue. When . . . . Besides, chances :a'l'e he was at the sink is piled high witb C.ontJnued Oil page 6 SlaiJshotS longer ihan you l:ast dishes, all revealing the menu r-------------------=----.::.....--...:...-- .... of the last week (!lr seven)~ and ioin Us On Monday, September 28 that dreaded question gets' To Discove.r More About Student bellowed, you go-t it, \Whose Activities a11d How Yo.u t:::an Join. turn is it to do the dish.es\ '? Eyes skirt · each other suspiciously and instantly a · courtroom sceiLe emerges. Accusations gEt_ hluled, . pleading begins, a pr.o()f of whereabouts ge~ discovered and in the ·end a jury of petlrs ·bri.ng down a dedsion 011 Otle unlucky person. If friendsllip can withstand the dish trauma, GE'I' tNVOLVED! !·~ Make Your C11lFege A \More Purfect Vnimr\ PLACE: Tile College Cent~r-Front Emttance 1'JME: 1-4 p.m. D11tcb Pipers & Gtunet Mins1i:11elles Apples Galore! RAINDATB: TUESDAY, SEPI'E:MBER 29 night! VI. Thou shalt consider the advantages of an occasional room cleaning. As mid-terms roll around and you can't find that political science book (not to mention your bed that was somewhere in the room) under the dirty laundry and last month's soda cans, you'll realize that just a little tidiness saves hours of searching. VII. Thou shalt avoid all-nigbter~ like the plague! But if you must view your notes by dawn's early light, remember A-Plus stays open 24 hours a day! {You may be surprised at the familiar faces there at 3:00a.m.! ) VIII, Thou shalt be patient, kind and tolerant to you roommate. Your Boston accent may be just as harsh as her/his Long Island dialect! Ya'll try to get along ... IX. Thou shalt tone up both mind and body. Lou Ferrigno you may not be but try to keep in shape. You need a few extra pounds for winter warmth-but this is not Alaska! X. Thou shalt not walk around staring at the ground-look ; ahead at the faces coming towards you, and smile-It's only then that they can smile back and the campus can become a place filled with familiar faces. (Besides feet are blah! Unless, of eourse,you have a shoe fettish!) XI. Thou shalt never give up. As the professor for your 11: 30 Monday class assigns a ten page paper for Thursday-on top of the other two paper assignments you just received at 8:30 and 10:3o-and then surprises you with a \pop quiz\-don't despalr.Things can only get· better, and when they do, you can look back and (hopefully) laugh.

Page 6 CONCORDJENSJS, September 24, 1987 FEATURES .9 0 ...c: Q. - 1ti ii5 And • • • By MARJORIE HOFFER You thought it was just for popcorn after hol.ll's . . . The · Skellar is back to selling beer. This is not an error. Friday and Saturday nights, 21 Club is beld in the Skellar and that in.- famous drink (along with wine coolers) are sold. 1n fact, to make everyone feel really cool, there are actually bouncers standing at the doorway scrutinizing ID' s. So, if you have just turned legal-thE 'Skellar is now the place to be. I know-! did not· fathom it either. This is my story. I had made :a vow to really enjoy my seni()r year · and to g~ out evet-y weekend night. Yet at 11:00 on a The Be-er Satu;day night I found myself in. fro11t ofthe TV, horrified over tile 1\Us:s America Pageant. Mis:l. :r.lichigan, the future Miss A., was doing a massive hula danee and Miss Texas had just completed h~r intrepretation of tile Battle Hymn of the R.ep11bl.ie. It was tirne for me to leave ttJe,cornforts of my home. Wondering how those women felt ~ppearing on national televisi011 wearing nothing but a batllillg suit and six-inch heels, I wallced over to the Skellar. When 1 Entered, I saw a lot of p.e()ple that I did not recognize. Rut tllat's ok because I was told the:y w-ere alumni (except they were \i<\(earing Greek letters to fit iato tile college atmosphere ~----------~~\ Revelations . • II Continued from page 5 because the pileup of the gar- bage has left tlte back door no longer useable and the stencil is keeping Dave the cookie mall away. Naturally, we were already planning our first party wlrile signing the lease. In no time we · found out how heavy thosE kegs fraternity brothers toss over bars so effortlessly really are, when we found ourselves maneuvering three of them up our old windy flight of stairs. All valuables were .stored away and furniture barricaded the En- trance to Dne bedroom. The initial guests were greeted heartily ( altllough no one recognized th.em). QuiC'kly enough, though, our house reached maximum capacity and just as quickly, ()Uf beer 'Was diminished. WhiLe wallting behind the final stragglers to the nearest fraternity party we were all a bit disma.t;:ed to !lear such questions as: 'Who lived there anyway, •• thougbts of our hard-eamed m()ney llSed to intoxicate these strangers made me thillk Clf how ma11y poWlds of roast beef that could ba\e been. After scooping out the oceans of beer from o11r kitchen floor the moming after, we aU agreed that one party a year was quite enough. Those of us who have ex- peri~ tile freedom and respollsibilities of off-campus life have watched ourselves acln1nc.e from hotpots to mierClwaves, bathroom buckets _ to toilet bowl cleansers, fire al~l\'tls to fireplaces, · laundry r()()DIS to laundromats, from askin~ your RA for the vacuum to aski11g the family next door for tltei.r snow shovel, and from West bmnches to a glass of -water- and an Advil. We take pr-ide ill t!J.e fact that we have hle11 ()UT first st~p into the real wcrd and s11rvived! \ Not For Seniors Only is Back so I -was a bit c()nfused). · ' Although I did not see anyone flipping the cup, those days should S()On be upon us once again . .And as far as Lknow, all of the dld tunes are l>ack in the jukebo:x. The 'Skellar is now only laccking two things; a big crowd. and some pictu.res. But as the legal community reads thEse words, (an.d I don't mean the people taking the LSATS)-I'm certain that they are malting sure their weekend plans include a freshman floor reunion,at the Skellar. Plea:3e patronize the facility. It's so .exciting to have a gym, a \college center\ (Car- negie-without the steps) and beer atthe Skellar. :Now all we needistlle Pub. Oh Dean ... By 'rAMMY BARSAMIAN Storioes hea1·d twice are seldom a~ amusing the second time around. When told too often, they don't just lose their flav()r, they're simply boring . Advi<Je given twice, however, excee!ls boring, and ·becomes anno:yi.ng. - The fir-st time we heard it, we were tile Class of '84, sitting at our l:Ji~h scllool graduations and listening.-or pretending to listeri-;to Qne sach source of pr.opbetic insight, proclaiming that we had \crossed that bridge and ente1·ed a new and gloriQllS .stage of life.\ But we were warned to act with maturity and to \be the best we can be.\ We have heard both the pr()phecy and the warning since, and alas, have yet once more to d<> so. By June of 1988, we bopeflllly will h:ave crossed the Nth and last of these figurative bridges; however, the :warning t() \be the best\ will mt be a cheerful reminder, but a grim mockery of achievement to those of us who graduate without ajoblined up. In ninE months, we may .have crossed our last bridge only to find ()Urselves immersed in a flood of jobless graduates, swimming frantically up- stream. FREE· CALENDARS for Undergraduate_ Students 11 you have not picked up your beautiful, free 1988 Union Cellege calendar compliments of ill& Annual Fund and Alumni Affairs Offices, you may do so at the Alumni Office located on Ute· first floor of Lamont House. They may be picked up between 8:30 a. rn.-5:00 p.m., Monday throLJgh Friday. Weloome Back ,. J It ' Having returned to school this year in a state . of bliss upon finally becoming a Senior, my joy was quickly diminished as I realized that this year may have more in store tl1an three carefree, short-lived terms. On the contrary, I was welcomed by a CDC manual in my mailbox:. \O.K. I'll be respo11sible,\ I thoug)lt, so I opened it to see if there was anything I should know about, sicce I am basically clueless when it comes ·to the job hunt. The next step was to mark my calendar ·with all the important meetings and events, My calendar now looks like an SAT answer card, and it seems that I will be spending more time in meetings than out. Wl1ete to start? The best strategy is to try everything that remotely interests you. Make a list of what you'd like to do,. and when preparing your resume,. try to gear it toward answering how you ·are best suited to do this job. I spend an afternoon at the CDC just researching what kinds of jobs are out there,-and I was sur- prised to find there are a lot more than one would think. The hard part is finding a focus, or your own route. The key is to use the services of the CDC to your individual advantage. The only way to. do this is to take adva11tage. Don't just find out about the various programs that the CDC of- fers~participate in them, Even if you don't know where to start, just start. Attend workshops, career panels and field trips. Read the College Placement . Annual instead of just looking at it. Go to company orientation sessions instead of waiting for them to come to you. And this yeat, don't walk by the Career Festival, but go and ask questions. Take a little time out each week this term to plan your life. Talking with others, I've also found that I'm not alone. In f(lct, I've found that there are more of us who don't know exactly what we'd like to be doing nine months from now than those who do. Our last year at college should be more than just a means to an end; or the last and annoying extra step to getting a job. It's our last chance to really take advantage <>f the experiences, programs and· activities on campus and to integrate them into a meaningful pattern which will give shape to our growth, Don't just go to the Career Center-do promotional activities, join clubs, and pursue your own interests. These experiences will be the most important onces in defining your future path, career or otherwise. Most importantly, don't do it for your resume. Do it for yourself. WRITE FEATURES Call Marjorie 6961 Cathy 4371 or Wendy 38\1-9089

. ( CONCORDIENSJS, S.eptember 24,. 1987. Sex On Sunday By TR:ACEY.PltYLUCK. ' Dr. Andrea Parrot, a professor at Cornell University, led a discusston on date rape entitled, !'Sex on Stmday- How to Get What You Want, But Not More· Than You Bargained For,\ in the Col~ege Center as an extension of freshman orientation on Sunday, Sep- tember 20. help fn coping with the · because she does not really situation. If not, t.qen that in- · mean it when she tells him, dividual needs help because he- \No.'' she is probably emotionally Dr. Parrot concluded her disturbed. presentation by introduci.ng Dt. Parrot began her several people from the Un10n presentation by relating a College security offic~ a~d r~pe scenario to her a,u(ijence of crisis center, and distr1butmg freshmen in an attempt to learn packets which included a list of . bow they would handle them- emergency numbers for selves in a nonse;Kual situation. students who need help in the Dr. Parrot asked how the fresh- · event of date rape. Page 7 FEATURES \ Dr-. Parrot's presentation was intended to provide advice for mell as well as women on now to prevent date rape. She held that collllllunication is imperative. Mell and women · should be upfrcint and explam wb.at ,each · of them expect and will accept frorntheir date in regard to, sex. Wornen should not lead: men on or l>e. unclear in their attempts to $1:()p sexual advances. Guys should let girls know if an in- vita-tion Up to a bedro()m will be folloW-ed by sexual advances, o;r _ if it simply involves con· vevsat~on and a drink. men would react if tb..ey were all nonswokers who ·could not stand cigarettes, and found themselves in an elevator With a smoking stranger. She then altered the scenario in an at- tempt to evoke audience response. The purpose was to see if the listenihg freshmen would react passively and give up their rights, assertively_ and explain how they felt and what they would like done, or aggressively., . · Th'i~ presentation to the fresh• men at Union was f;:~r £ram unique. Dr. Parrot lectures on date and acquaintance rape all over the country. She began her work with date rape while working with students at Cornell University and realiz;ing The Best of Union By CATHY MAit:KES Dr. Pa:r.rot then switched to a sexual scenario. She compared communication procedures in the two scenarios, explaining that it is far easier to talk about something such as smoking, which is socially accepted and can be discussed openly. Someone who requests that a smoker extinguish his cigarette in an elevator has the law and health on rus sid~. This is not the case in sexual encounters. Kissing and petting are generally not illegal, nor is it necessarily a hazard to one's health if one has sexual in- tercourse with someone unless that individual has a sexual disease or the female partner becomes pregnant. · that there was a problem. She began her research on the subject at Cornell five years ago, and has been lecturing nationwioe for the past three. years. Let's face it-we allsearch for neW placeS to tell ()Ur .friends about--places with the best atmosphere, the best food or drink specials. Rut does Schenectady have anywhere like this worth talkillg a bout? Of course. aut maybe y()u're new on campus, or even been here for awhile, yet never managed to make it to all the Schenec- tady hot-spots you'-ve neard rwnored to be great. Well, it's time for you to walk outside these Union gates and ex- plore ... see if you agt:\ee. with what's the best. Dr. Parrot ~uggested that ligllts should be left on or doors lei (lpen to prevent being trapJ>oed in a situation which a girl may be unable to handle. Wornell should also follow their inst)ilcts. If they are uncertain abnt what is happening of they feel mcomfortable, t\len they sh~lll({. assert themselves and stop their dates. They should sar what they really mean and try t~ cut down on alcoholic cmsUmption so that they can malle clear, focused decisions. Gu~s sbould treat their dates as people, not sex objects, and the) should pay attention to ver-bal and physical signs of resistance. They should believe their dates when they are told to st()lJ. b1 a private discussion after the presentation, Dr. Parrot fur-tiler stated that men can use peer presstire in a positive way tollelp prevent date rape. They can ask their male friends if t:bey had a nice time at a party or If the girl was niee, rather than asking, \How far did you get?~' · Dr-. Parrot also stated that if an;yone tells a friend that he .. she has been raped, it is not that friEnd's place to judge whether or r1ot a rape really occurred. The friend should act as if he- site believes the victim, offer Stl)lport, and get cowtseling for the friend. If someone really -was r-aped, then he·she needs Girls are often confused about their wants, according to Dr. Parrot. Both guys and girls receive · many different messages from their parents, their peers and the media regarding sexual relationships. Soap operas such as \G;eneral Hospital,\ in which one of the daytime television's most famotis love stories, between Luke and Laura, began when Luke raped Laura, and nightime sitcoms such as \Moonlighting in which Maddy first slept with David after slapping him across the face and clearly stating that she wanted him to leave, send confusing messages to the viewmg audience. Viewers can get the impression that a gu;y should grab a woman and force her · to have sex with him Fraternity Wins Top Scholarship Award 'J'he Delta-Tau Chapter of Ka[>pa Sigma Frant~rnity at Union. College has been select~d as tbe Outstanding Scholar.srnp Chapter of Kappa Sigma Fraternity for the 1986-87 academic year. The award was presented to the officers of the Cbapter at the Kappa Sigma 5~h Biennial Gra!ld Conclavtl on Friday, July 24, 1987, in Indianapolis, IN. Tbe Union' College Chapter w~s selected out of a possible 200 college and llniversity cha]lters in North America. The a,;vard recognized the cbapter for.scoring above the all men's· all fraternity averages at Union College for four consecutive years and for upholding the standards of its Jraternity and academic institution. Kappa Sigma fraternity is a college men's social fraternity and currently ranks as tile .fourth 'largest in North America. The fraternity is represented on 200 college and university campuses and has 108 alumni· chapters. The current memQership of Kappa Sigma stands at 168,000. Lunchtime Sitting Meditation Monday-Friday 12'\\1 pm in the college center,.room 302 .Beginners and drop-ins are welcome. She stated that the Union freshmen · who attended Sun- day's lectw-e offered rather typical responses. She conceded that a greater than usual por- tion of the blame was shifted on the' woman in the presntation at Union, b11t that that was probably because the audience was comprised entirely of freshmen wh<> have not really observed or been involved in date rape situations. She ex- plained that life experience reveals that date rape is not something the womal} causes, but rather something that the man does. While women do do things to increase suscep· tibility, men also misread the signals. Dr. PaiTot feels that her lecture will d,efinitely increase awareness at Union College. People will be discussing the lecture f<>r days and her message will be spread to those students who did not attend. Another possible result of the lecture, as witnessed on other college campuses, may be an increase in reported cases of date rape because victims will feel safei' admitting what happened, now having learned who to contact. More will seek help for date rap~s experienced last year or the year before in an attempt to relieve that trawna. r ICE CREAM Ben & Jerry's, 170.5 Union St. Who could argue with ''Ver- mont's Finest\? Whether it's a dish of Heath Bar C!:'unch or a Hot Fudge Brownie Sundae, no one in the Capital District can compete with B & J~ s. CHEAP BREAKFAST Peter Pause, 535 Nott St. Ri~ht across from the Ric:hrnond gate. This place makes a rnEan break- fast special. For $2.40, you .get three eggs, sausage, b.omefries and toast. Coffee is eldra. BARGAIN SPORTSWEAR Champion Fact()ry Outlet, Crosstown Plaza. A sh4)rt drive (ask a friend how .to get there) and worth stopping l)y. From t- shirts to heavyweigl!t sweats, you, can find almost anything here for a steal. PIZZA Fireside, 1631 Eastern Pkwy. ~meri:can C!Coll~giatr ~orts )f.{ntbo:log!' International Publications is sponsoring a Jlational (!olle~e lloetrp <!ontest .. --Fall Concours 1987-- o 11 en to all college and uni11ersity students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRI:ZES will go to the top five poems: $100 $50 $25 $15 FoiJrth First PlocE Second Place Third Place $10 Filiil '. AWP.RDS of .free printing for ALL accepted manuscnpts 1n oor popular, handsomely bound and copynghted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE roE~- ' Deadline: October 31 CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS: 1. Any student is eligible to submit h1s or he~ verse. 2. All entries must be orogtnal and unpublished. 3. All entries must be typed, double· spaced. on one side of tile page only. Each poem must bean a separate sheet and must·bear, in tl~>eupp~r left· hand comer, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the CDLLE<lE attended. Put name and address on envelope als<J 1 4. There are no restnctions on form or theme. Length of poems up to fourteen lines. Each poem must have a separate title. (Avonl \Untitled\'! I Small black and whole illustrations welcDome. 5. The ~ud·!Jes' decision will be finaL No mfo by phone! 6. Entrants should keep a copy of all entnes as they cannot b~ ret11rned. Prozfl' winners and all authors awarded free publication w1ll bo notified ten day~ after deadline. LP, woll ret a on .first pubhcat1on rigilts ·for accepted poems. foreigillanguagll poems welcome. 7. There is an initial one dollar registration fee for the first entr'f and a fee of one dollar for each additional poem, It is requested. to s11bmit .no more than ten poems per entrant. 8. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above dcadlirre and .fees be paid, cash, check or money order, to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS P, 0. Box 44044- L Los Angeles, CA 90044 Located just acrr()S~ the street from the inf~mous Price Chopper. The piz:za here makes a great meal. A.lt!llough it's best to stay and eat ttt the pizzeria, they do feature a. ~4-cut size for take-out only (no delivery, though). ICED TEAS Slapshot's, 501 llattie St. Even though the crcw(i·induced cover charge is now a dollar. the Thursday night experienct- is well worth -it. Their buffalo wings are great,. tCJo-check out their Monday a.nd Wednesday night specials. CHEAP CASUALDINNER Geppetto's, ~47 Nott St. Also accessible fron tbe Riclunond gate, t}lis is a. reliably good place to eat. :Not only is there quick service and a. decent. menu, it's a short walk from campus. SUPERMARKET Price Chopper, H:a5tern PkWy. The name that follows \GE\ in Schenectady's alphabet. The bulk food is <feffinitely good for either small quantities of munchies or jumbo l>ags of party supplies. NEIGHBORHOI()D BAR Rupsis, 1549 Cmrie St. Sort of fills in where the Skellar left off. On a C()lle:ge budget, you can't .do mucil better than the Wednesday ni.ght two-dollar pitchers. APARTMENT~R()OM FUR- NISHINGS Salvation Arnl::.V, 2145 Central Ave.; Macy 's Furniture Clearance Cent.er,. 2241 Central Ave. Dependin~ 011 your budget, you'll probably- fin.d st~mething acceptable in eitller of these places. Keepr in mind that a good sofa cov-er goes. a long way ... MOST ME.A..- FOR THE MONEY Slick's, 12? S. Ferry St. Although mo:lt people swear by their roast beef sandwich, the Philly Steak is:n't bad either. A classic exarnple of a great Schenectady drive. BOOK-STAT10NERY SHOP The Open Doo-r, 128 Jay St. An escape . frollL tlte ordinary . There's Wliqlle gifts, books, cards, potpo:ucri, candles, kites, earrings, etc.·-a welcome change from a Halhnark Store. Make sure yOtu check out their Christmas :Silop when the holidays get closer. BOWLING .ALLEY The Boulevard Bowl, 1315 Erie Blvd. Great for a cheap evening of entertainlntent. whether it be bowling or just- watching the locals. JUKEBOX The Skellar, basement of Old Chapel. stm playing to ~emind me of some (Df my best tunes at college. Wba.i more can I say? It's Union at its classic best.

Page 8 CONCORDIIINSIS, Sep.tember 24, 1987 . '·~ ' INTERNATION'AL FEATURES An ln·ternation·at Experience By CIIIUSHARTMAN and MICIIELLE RUELOS Greetings from your Inter~ national Ht.use. What's that? You didn~t know that Union has an Intern.etional House?. We start at the beginning then~ Union Ius a new house on campus and it's called The Internatioital House. We're located in Webster House and our membership is comprised of half (()Feign students and half American students. Last SJ)ring a .groap of students banded together and created thil International House hoping to integrate the many different cllltures which are present at Union. Our mem- bership ineludes .students from France, Italy, England, China, the Philippines and Morocco. We also have frequent visitors from Germany, Greece, Long Island and Schenectady. We're obviously bringing togethet· some of the greatest cultures .known to man. Last Friday we held our first green card party. We would like to once again congratulate Alberto Iaia on becQming Union's newest American citizen, as well as thank -all who came and joined us in the festivities. For all who couldn't make it, you missedouton some fine champagne and SCJme great stories about passing through customs. Saturday, Matteo cooked for . us, which I can assure you is always a treat. The appetizer ot pasta with baby shrimp was delicl<>us, but the main course of rice with mushro()ms cooked in a wine sauce was out of this ~orld, or country at least. · ·Tbere was plenty of food for all including several guests amf needless to say, it was better than West. We h<>pe to have many mor~ such djnners over the course of the year as well as a few special events. One event already in the works is a dinner on United Nations'. Day, including a speaker from the UN. The doors to the International House. are always ()pen and there lS plenty of conversation to be heard. I must forewarn you, however, that tile con- versation may not always be in English, so be ' prepared to converse in several languages. We invite all who have not yet visited the International House to stop in and enjoy some ·Of the . atmosphere that only our house can give, If Schenectady has you down, why not come enjoy a · little bit of Italy or France 'Or Morocco or ... New • • .. York Students at Union :2 E ..c: 0 C/) c: ~ (I) ~ >. .0 g 0 .c a. YorK students By JULIA EASON and LORRAINE JARVIS For the past six year the American Studies department of St. Johns Colleget York and Unioll College have run a joint student exchange· program, of Nhich are the latest parti- cipants. Although Union is considered to be a very small campus by American· stan- dards, the York campus would easily fit on the Library Field. Beca11se we have such a small campus, it affords little in the way of amusing diversions, however, this is compensated for hy our close proximity to the city center. It is, therefore, very different for us to find a college that is self-sufficient with rega;rd to entertainment. Of cour-se, as ~xchange stuqents we feel it is o~ DUTY to par- An American Perspective By 'M()NIQUE HARRISON I spent my junior year abroad studyillg at the University of York in the north of England. I left with no preconceived notion~ oOr prejudices aoout the British Slid I was shocked that two pe<~ples that share the same languagE (and, as we would like to believe after reading the American newspapers, the same political values which their Pritne Minister, Margaret Thatcher~ embodies) could be so different. The :British are generally formal and polite~ [ was not accustomed to people con- stantly saying 'please' and 'thanlt you'. In York,· the students even thanked the bus driver. Yet, although they may gener;ally- be polite, tiley tend to be friendly in a distant sense. I found tllat meeting the British studellt::J was an ardo11s task. I also learned to be cautious of my attitude and expectations towards them. A more modest and qtliEt approach is pr.eferred there to the assertive or aggressive American approach. TherefCJre., you must strike a balan(le between taking the initiative in order to make friends while maintaining a more restrained wsture. The most distmct quality of the British that I observed was their reserve. Americans do everything in exce~s compared to the temperate nature of the phlegmatic British: our cars and homes are large and lavish, our clothes are bold and bright in color, our appetites are ex- tremely 'healthy', and our lifestyles are fast. Ostentation and materialism are much more consipcaous and prevalent in a coUlltry.., which has a higher standard of living. Yet, even if the British economy were to continue its recovery, the British would not become as ostentatious as Americans. Their modest reserve precludes any inclination t<J draw at- tention to themselves. There are, however, tvvo ex,ceptio~s to this tradition: the pWlks· (who, I might add, are in decline) and the hoppers. During the potent stages of inebriation, which is not unusual, the British break <>Ut of their shell and really dance. One night on the dance fl()OI'., I noticed a few guys .begin tD push and shove each other. I thought it was the start of a fight. My friend pulled me to the side and said that unless I wanted to join the barbaric slam dancing I should sit this one out. Politics definitely play a large role in a British student's life. He generally despises That~ cherism because it undermines the socialist policies which are advantageous to him such as free tuition fDr higher education. Yet, Britain's educational system can only mjlllage five percent of its graduating high school-level students. Earning a degree is not as popular a goal as in America yet it is becoming more important. The spectrwn of political ideas is much more broad, encllmpassing such movements as Marxism, socialism · and libertarianism (these movements are heard with greater force in :Britain). The studerits mock our political _parties questioning the dif- ference between the Democrats and Republicans. They view . Ronald Reagan as a fuxnbling, ~incC>mpetent idealogue and they are fascinated that we could have elected an actor as president. According to them, this is one rn()re sign of our political ignorance and simple- milldedness. A major complaint against Thatcher is that she is socially dividing the C()untry into the ·north and south. This class divisi<>n is a persistent setback :which can be recognized even in the bars on campus. The students from the south whO ten <I to come from public (our private) schools and families with a middle or upperclass status are in their oWI'l clique roDing their cigarettes, while the northerners and people from working class backgrounds foi'm their own ticipate as much as possible in the various social activities &vailable on campus; to whicli the fraternity parties contribute greatly! 1 As our lectuter said before we left, we must try to assimilate and. mix with our peers, and in our opin:i()n, we are doing a pretty good job. There are several confusing differences between our two countries. Language, for example: we are constantly reducedto asking our American rommateswhat various colorful words J;Dean. However, this is a two-way street, as we often confronted with blank ex::- pressions. upon our utterances of simple statements, our in- terpretation of the Saine words being different . Even crossing the road her~ proves to be a major feat, not being used to people driving on of York, group and mock the elite. Social, mobility is hind~red by traditional prejedices between the classes. Money cannot b11y you status, either. Making a fast buck is seen as a quintessential _ exampl~ ofAip~rican v~garity. This can be followed back to the anti-business tradition which Mar·garet Thatcher is at- tempting to erode. Yet despite the many social an economic troubles which Britain is ex::periencing there are many things which we could learn from the British. Their the right. Nearly having been run over by a large car on our first expedit~on beyond the college gates, ()Uf caution is fast becoming obsession. In fact, we have observed a strange phenomenon while cowering on the sidewalk. There is a ten- dency amo11g American motorists to accelerate towards anyone. who happens to be crossing the road. The most obvious and striking difference, however, is the size of everything over here. The cars, the buildings, the roads,. the busses, the football players (especially the football players} is surprising. · 'fo conclude we are looking forw3:rd to an enjoyable and edueational stay at Union and hope our .counterparts in England have a similar ex- perience at St~ Johns. · England The seminar :method also develops one of the most im- -port ant skills: articulation. \Like I do not know if like you have ever noticed this but like sometimes you get the urg~ to like add this. annoying like I do not know how to des- cribe it but you know what I mean.\ The British have a brilliant knack of ex::pressing the most trivial .of thoughts in a highly intelligent and impressive manner. During my first few seminars I ~ost the substance of what was being discussed because I was con·- centrating too much on their accents and how they were expressingthemselves. Before I would contribute anything to -discussion, I would agonize over the way in which I wollld say it trying to be selective in my choice of vocabulary. If the British could only communicate their true feelings as well, they would be the . world's greatest lovers. · teaching style attempts to develop a mote responsible and mature young adult. Instead of being spoon-fed as \V'e are in American universities (specific pages given out as reading assignments), first rears are in)mediately placed in a system of lectures 9 tutorials and seminars. There are less bouts of class time and more sup- posed time t() do your research independently. Specifi<! reading assignments are mandatory yet a long bcok list accompanies aU assignments to aid the student during seminar djsE;ussions. A more relaxed atmosphere pervades the campus; the \throatiness\ is not at all evident. Maybe a bit more motivation could be developed by more frequent testing yet for independently motivated students it is a preferable . Overall, my junior year abroad was a great learning. experience. Not only did I learn about the important traditions of the British, but I also learned their little qllirks which make them so interesting. The one habit whichlwillnever'forget is their use of rhetorical questions at the end of almost every sentence. They do not ex::pect an answer-.it is just a waY of assuring themselves that they are right, isn't it'? system. · ' '

\ ' ' CONCOIU~IEJVSIS, September 24, 19l·1'1 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Evergreen By·;A;LBERTO IAIA Evergreen.! Usually wnen you ·read this word, tre-es, plants and photosynthesis are the first things Which collle to ;mind. The experience I aw about to share with you, however, has little to do with chlorophyll. It is, in fact, concerning my recent change of status to permanent American resident. What is so green. about all thiS? Well, the green. card, of course. me, and he was aiready curio11s to know what my faiQUy's oc· cupation was,· where my morn lived, and my plans for tile future. After twenty minutes of w~rm conversation, we .got to question number 29, which was: uno you speak English?\ I di(,i have some he$itation' for. a moment, but the answer finally came to me: ''Only on in· terviews~\ And there is more! ! ! Upon exiting, I was notified that,. in order to become. a · citizen, I. will have to know who the president ..of. the United States. is, and learn the English language. Boy, is that going to be difficult. \ALIEN.'' Yes, I know, 'alien Sotu1ds like I am coming from outer space but, if you think it bothers me at all, you are right! At Union, my friends at the International House- had organized a small celebration for ·me: Asti .spumante and a green cake with green M & M's. As soon as I saw all this I said to myself \What a Country!\ And what a CoWltry it really is. I· love America and the people that Uve here. It is in~ deed a great hOnor to become a part ·Of Jt. As ·far as my becoming. a citizen, well, I'm in good shape. I already know Who the Presdent of the U.S. is: Ollie North. But that's the easy part. I just hope I can learn English soon for, if I don't, I might just remain an ... Evergreen. Union College; Melting Pot of the Capital District ByWUYUDONG At 4:00 p.m., September 111, foreign students in the Capital · R~gion flocked to the Old Chapel .for. an orientation held by our school aM,Jinistration and the Union international st11dents' representatives. A.nn Fleming, Chris Hartman and Alberto Iaia impeccably or;ganized th.e event. Schenectady's mayor, Karen Johnson, came to welcome the st11dents, and a brief welcome speech was delivered at the buifet dinner by President John S. Morris. During the welcome party which followed, self· introduction broke the boun· daries between the par-- tieipants. The newcomers chatted about their first im· pressions and felt warmly welcomed. Some students even went as far as discussing the huge margin of terror, Judge Bork's future, and Americans' views of time and efficiency. Mrs. Smith, the lovely wife of Prof. Barry Smith, the foreign studentsadviser at Union, gave an unforgettable speech. Lots of advice also caine from talks given by Laura Calvi, Lina Ngamprakulpanit, Matteo Coveri Abbondio and Nicolas Boch, whosharedtheir learning experiences in this country. The evening e~ded when we felt as if we had travelled, regardless to time and 'region, to the many countries we came from. Thanks to this orientation, which helps us rock 'n' roll our path to the center of the world, Union is 'becoming more and more of a melting pot in the Capital District. Upon welcoming me, the .receptionim at the ''nearest immigration office,\ took for granted that I Sp()ke no English at all. She pointed to a chair and physicallY showed me hoW ordinary people sit d()wn in this country. I kindly told her that l bad been living in t:Q.is country fot·six years, and that I was a student at Union College. She must have not understood my English, ~cause five minutes ~ate~,_ using, sign language,. she mformed me that. the exammer- was ready to see me. She then said \Walk this way, please,\ and got very · angry 'when I imitated her walk. As I was coming back to Union, I was thinking about the transitions I had made while living in the U .. S. I was initially a \foreign student\ in high school. I never liked that title: \foreign\ sounds cold a11d distant. Things got better. in college, when LS.U. decided to rename foreign students, as \international students.,' That, I felt, was a warmer noun. Now, ~py friends, I am p~rt of the crowd! Yes, mom, the flag and apple pie are parts of my solll. Yess!! I am indeed a resident Feelings of a New Experience 'l'he examiner was a very social person. He had just .met Welcome Bilek To C11mpusl From Alumni Affairs Office This Year T.A.S.T.E. (Take a Student to Eat) has been. reinstituted. Local alumni cordial~y invite students to their homes for dinner and conversation. Dates: October 20 and October 21 Tim~: Pick-up be.tween 5:00 and 6:30pm Deadline: October 6 •, Contact Maria .in Alumni Affairs for more information. · Phone: 370-6157 Sorry, only a limited number of students can be accomodated so sign up early. :ByMAHEOMARIA MARCO COVERI ABBANDIO It did not take me long to decide that I wanted to pursue my college education in this country, A visit to some Italian llniversities was enough to con\ldlce me on how and where to plan my future education. The procedures that landed me in this country were tedious, GERMAN TABLE EVERY THURSDAY 12:30- 1:30 COLLEGE CENTER Enter.tai:nment ·Ton·ight TV and Video Rentals 3 Cnestnut Street Albany, New York 12205 Off Fuller Rd., Next to Chestnut St. Color TVs • Microwave Ovens • VCRs MONTHLY LE_ASE PRICES START AT: $·12. 95/ mo. • 13\ Color~ Televisio.n $13.95/.mo. - .\s cu. ft. Microwave Oven 517.95/mo.- Video Cassette Recorder 3 Month Minimum • Free Service • No Prior Credit Necessary CALL 458·2101 TODAY! TO MAKE ARRANGEMENTS FOR DELIVERY Formerly \Granada 1V Rental \ ( Store Hours: M·TH-F · 9-9 T .. w.s 9:5 :.30 • but overall, added e~~itement to the adventure I was com· mencing. Yes, coming to scho(}r here was a real adventure for various reasons .. One was this was the first time I,was leaving home. for a long period of time, and it was difficult for me and my family. On the airplan~ it was in- credibly difficult to fall asleep~ ~eause I knew that my life was going to change. I knew my life was going to change. I was to e:x1:3erience total independence~ The thougllt that from that m()ment on I was going to be totally responsible for my ac- tions caused my insomnia. Sin.ce I was six, I had been used totraveling and living alone for almost a month at a time. I had been trained to be self- sufficient, and I never minded it, but this time was different. I made the decision to study abroad, thus taking my life into my own hands without being able to blame someone else for my future mistakes. I was ahnoSt scared when 1 saw the World Trade Center from the window of the air- plane. Those two skyscrapers seemed to be the guardians to the real world, and I was ner- vot!S at the thought of passing through it. As it usually hap- pens, I had to wait almost two holll\s to clear immigration · cbeck point A, but on September 1, 1986 those hours flew by witb an. incredible speed. After a short stay in the big apple, the day came for me to board the Amtrak train t() migrate north towards Union. I never visited Schenectady before, so I had no idea what tbis town was going to look lik~. The train ride was pleasant, the day was warm and sunny enabling me to enjoy some very ni«!e landscapes. At my destination Union College, I was disappointed when I realized b()W small Schenectady station VJas. My first problem was fillding a taxi, apparently n()cn eldstent in this town. tense and beautiful for me. On that day the campus was still deserted, only the lively and little squirrels were enjoying · the calm atmosphere·. Needless to say I could not fall asleep that night, and it was not due to jet lag. The next day, I was finally able to move into my room and meet my roommates. Many thoughts were crossing my mind,.for I did not kn~w how this adventure was going to turn out. I knew for sure that because of pride I would not change my decision which meant that I would hat have left Union without a degree. The next day orientation began, and I was very busy. There were many things going on at the same time, and I tried to do everything. The whole month was like this, but at the end of October the.re was nothing new to discover. Also, I · was no longer a novelty. Life at Union started to get tough. At that ptiint my phone bill in- creased incredibly. The first thought l had every morning was desperately wanting to go home. Fortunately, Thanksgiving came and I was able to leave Schenectady. When I returned in January, I was still feeling depressed from the formr, but my prtde was too strong to let me stay home as my bean was telling me to~ Winter term, as far as phone bills were concerned, was the most expensive. Happily, spring b1·eak came and I left Union for the second time. By this time I was not feeling sad or homesick, I was just feeling empty as a ~ap bubble. During the break I was able to fill the bubble with some energy, and by the time I came .back I was finally myself. When I decided to come to this country to study, I never would have thollght that it would be so difficult ·for me to adapt to American life. I realize that the experience I am now living in this school does not allow me to make a general statement on America as a country. In fact, , this is not what I am doing right I finally was able to get t(} tile now. I think that although it was hotel where I had a room very hard for me to fit into reserved for tbat night as I Union's social life, and it still is arrived here too early for difficult to understand the local registration. As soon as I got moral values, I would not go settled in my hotel room, I back at~d change . my formr hlll'ried out .of the hotel to finally decision. take my first walk on camplls. I felt at that moment like a I would not leave Union for V!Jlcano.was exploding inside ()f anything in the world. I really my soul. The autummU colol\s ~f like it with its buildings, CGD• nature in those days made tliis struction, history, people Blld frst approach much more in- dulcis in fwulo, squirrels. .r

F~ \' I ;,.1011 Colkp ltii': ...._,________ -----~ ---·--·-- \We Buy Faculty\·· On the facing page, a. slender selection of Union administrators and faculty comment on. the state of the Co1 1 lege. We had hoped for more of our invited guests to reply, but what we did :receive is quality. Feel free to respond to the question fo-r our next issue. This editorial is our turn. Let's remind you once again; we're writing because we like it here and we care. This is our effort to improve Union. This summer, we stumbled across an article in Time magazine, Apri128., 1986, \Those Hot Colleges on the rise.\ Union ranks far above them, but their actions might someday change that. COMMENT ARIES Concordiensis asked a number of adminstmtors and faculty members: What are the By JAMES UNDERWOOD Union is an exceptionally strong and intere:;ting place whose strengths are sometimes taken for granted by many of us. One of those strengths is the intelligence, energy, eagerness to learn, and openness to new experiences characteristic of many Union students. it .fs these kinds of qualities that allow students to take advantage of the existence · here of many opportunities for learning outside the conventional c;lassroom setting that is in turn another of Union's distinguishing marks. Taken as a whole, Union's terms abroad and exchanges, its internships, the senior project requirement of many departments, and the provision of a growing number of research opportunities supported both by College funds and foundation grants and ••rnentoring.\ J)ased on the judgments of outsiders and my own observation of other colleges, I am confident i)l saying that it is unusual tQ find a faculty as committed to serious scholarship as is Union's faculty that is at the same time so deeply involved with students. _ only Qne valid perspectiveinthe small college, . Our problems are many, but few are fundamental, some a,re on the way t(J solution and some· of the more difficult ate abOut Take Trinity University in San Antonio, for example--Dean Massa's new home. President Ronald .· Calgaard joined the college in 1979 and pushed the endowment from $127 million in '81 to $200 million in '86: Sounds a bit like llere. But the difference is in what they do with it. · represent opportunities for Union ,has a.. tradition very different from that of most liberal arts colleges. Starting with r;liphalet Nott and _ bis alternative curriculum allow:ing room for those students who wanted a chance to .study science and modern languages · as well as the classical subjects, Union has reflected more diversity in curriculum than most liberal arts colleges. F~rthermore it cannot be denied that we have been more ol'iented to \the useful\ than. most, as -evident by the introduction in 1845 of the first program in engineering among colleges and the ocn- tinued presence of .a vigorous engineering program up to this very moment. Our diversity has meant that it has been much harder for us to establish a stable identity that it has for ~e · typical liberal-arts college. But that diversity has also been a source of. strength, saving us from the illusion that there is to be subj,ecf to efforts to .£ind solutions. Developments in the larger society have always had an impact oil colleges. During the last several years, a national turning away from the arts and humanities has threatened the balance which we must maintain among the four divisions of the College in order to preserve the reality o£ diversity witbi.n the context of Union's tradition as a liberal arts college. We can -be thankful that the numbers of students With a serious .interest in the arts and humanities has begun to increase from levels suf· ficiently low so as to threaten the existence of the critical • mass necessary to provide the proper stimulation and esprit de corps. We need to continueto make the College more _ at· tractive to such studen~ while at the same time -ensuring that we maintain tne attractiveness of the n:atural sciences, engineering, and social sciences. \We buy faculty,\ said President Calgaard. Full professors' salaries went from $31;723 to $45;693 and the school hired away professors from Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. In the meantime, s11bstantial funding went to financial aid. In 1986 Trinity pulled in 121 National Merit Schol~s with $5000 annual aid packages and spent an average of $1000 each in recruiting other students. Trinity's student body is 3,269. · And foT the 19&6-S7 school year, tuition was $6,960. Yes, we'have brand new facilities that were badly needed, but we also have a budget surplus of more than $1 million each year and close to $100 million in the endowment. It's time we spent some on the present, because it will draw a better future. Sexual Assault Over the past year we have become increasingly aware of a disturbing incident that has occuned all too frequently at our College: that of sexual assault. Last week Dr. Andrea Pa:rrot of Cornell University discussed strategies of preventing this crime. According to Dr. Parrot the key to eliminating acquaintance rape is clear communication. We must ali learn to be upfront in our expectations. Yes means yes and no means no; it can be simple. During her discussion Dr. Parrot divided the audience into opinion groups based their response to diffeFent statements. This generated several lively debates over different individuals' views concerning sexual abuse and rape. This communication was an effective method of opening up a difficult.topic for discussion. In this way the sometimes diverse ()pinion groups learned to-listen to each others' viewp()ints and respect each others' opinions. This in itself i~ a step towards more effective communication. The topic must be brought into the open. Carnegie Rolls Over They forgot sometlting when they built the new \College Center.\ Our beautiful new building doesn't have a name. The old plaque that had dedicated the building to Andrew Carnegie has been removed. All that is left is a dissapointing black void. Thus far it has been given the generic label\College Center,\ which we hope is merely a temporary title. Why was the old Carnegie sign taken down? Do they have some new name to replace it, rededicating the building to the next highest bidder. How would Andrew Carnegie feel about this? . ,intel1ectual and personal development which may be unmatched by any other small college. Both the quality of less conventional opportunities for learning available here and conventional classroom lear- ning are enhanced by .the strength of commitment that Union faculty bring to teaching By JOSEPHL. MAMMOLA To the point - our strengths: the vibrancy 1 resiliency and self-confidence of the students. Union students are tough, both achievers and survivors. There are very few (if any) places to \hide\ in the curriculum. It's hard to walk across the stage at commencement and not have experienced signific~t, dif- ficult intellectual work (not always true at some other campuses). The faculty's · commitment to the ad- vancement of learning is primarily directed to students (as opposed to their own in- dependent research). The faculty is continuously con- cerned that students care about learning; they want to see an even greater commitment on the part of students outside the classroom and willingly par• ticipate in activities that promote such learning. Other strengths: our much-improved athletic and social facilities · {especially during the last two years). Good teaching and lab · facilities. For the most part, students and faculty seem to be comfortable at the College. There is a good \fit\ between faculty's · academic · ex- pectations and students' career goals and their willingness to meet high standards to ac- complish them. Union's size is a major strenght: it is not unusual to see the same people a number of times during the same day at different locations and events on the campus. Our size provides many op- portunities for such accidental meetings and promotes a strong potential for community. Some things to be improved: · the long hard winter. We could Letters to the Editor and Commen.taries do not necessarily reflect the opinons of the editorial board of Concordiensis do without January, February, and March. Our single- dimension social life: tap-a~keg· and a crowd gathers. Perhaps we need to offer a campus-wide prize for the best new suggestions about what could be done to add a little sparkle (or a lot) to the redundant party life. Any risk-takers out there? We need to learn to use the new College Center creatively, with imaginative programs that can bring the community together. Some other deanly wishes: less . socializing in the library (a real er.nbarassrnent to the College!); greater concern for the beauty of the campus (the vandalism and trashing are simply incomprehensible) ; a need for students to feel they have a responsiblility. in maintaining and passing on the character and history of the campus to future students; and mote tolerance and respect for others· in the residence halls As dangerous to us as any Contln1.1ed on page 11 (lower stereo effusions, more conscientious adherence to study hours, less animal yells, etc.) There are two sides to most Union students: one can !Je seen- in the grim (but generally , sel£-confidellt)., determined faces one sees on the mornings · of the first clay ~f fin_al exaru week or in tile faces of students marching to the Career Center for job interviews '81\d the faces of Camp Union, enjoying the short-lived spring rays, slightly skeptical ofitall, determined to have a good time now because the first day of exams is ne:xt Monday - and that means work. My father used to tell me that my problem was I liked hanging around college campuses to()! much· and lte was right! This is. not a bad place to hang around; if you must. Joseph Mammola is Dean of Students

Page 10 CONClJ~DIBNSlS, September' 'J4, ·1987' ------ Fcn.utttJt.J at ( lmon Col~~ Nil-:' ___ ·--·-·- ·- _ \We Buy Faculty\ On the facing page, a slender selection of Union administrators and faculty comment on the state of the College. We had hoped for more of our invited guests to reply, but what we did receive is quality. Feel free to respond to the question for our next issue. This editorial is our turn. Let's remind you once again; we're writing because we like it here and we care. This is our effort to improve Union. This summer, we stumbled across an article in Time magazine, April 28, 1986, \Those Hot Colleges on the rise.\ Union ranks far above them, but their actions might someday change that. Take Trinity University in San Antonio, for example--Dean Massa's new home. President Ronald Calgaard joined the college in 1979 and pushed the endowment from $127 million in '81 to $200 million in '86. Sounds a bit like here. But the difference is in what they do with it. \We buy faculty,\ said President Calgaard. Full professors' salaries went from $31,723 to $45,693 and the school hired away professors from Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. In the meantime, substantial funding went to financial aid. In 1986 Trinity pulled in 121 National Merit Scholars with $5000 annual aid packages and spent an average of $1000 each in recruiting other students. Trinity's student body is 3,269. And for the 1986-87 school year, tuition was $6,960. Yes, we have brand new facilities that were badly needed, but we also have a budget surplus of more than $1 million each year and close to $100 million in the endowment. It's time we spent some on the present, because it will draw a better future. Sexual Assault Over the past year we have become increasingly aware of a disturbing incident that has occurred all too frequently at our College: that of sexual assault. Last week Dr. Andrea Parrot of Cornell University discussed strategies of preventing this crime. According to Dr. Parrot the key to eliminating acquaintance rape is clear communication. We must ali learn to be upfront in our expectations. Yes means yes and no means no; it can be 5;imple. During her discussion Dr. Parrot divided the audience into opinion groups based their response to different statements. This generated several lively debates over different individuals' views concerning sexual abuse and rape. This communication was an effective method of upening up a difficult topic for discussion. In this way the sometimes d.iverse opinion groups learned to li~ten to each others' viewpoints and respect each others' opinions. This in itself is a step towards more effective communication. The topic must be brought into the open. Carnegie Rolls Over They forgot something when they built the new \College Center.\ Our beautiful new building doesn't have a name. The old plaque that had dedicated the building to Andrew Carnegie has been removed. All that is left is a dissapointing black void. 1bus far it has been given the generic label \College Center,\ which we hope is merely a temporary title. Why was the old Carnegie sign taken down? Do they have some new name to replace it, rededicating the building to the next highest bidder. How would Andrew Carnegie feel aoout this? COMMENT ARIES Concordiensis asked a number of adminstrators and faculty members: What are the By JAMES UNDERWOOD UniGn is an exceptionally strong and interesting place whose strengths are sometimes taken for granted by many of us. One of those strengths is the inteHigence, energy, eageraess to leaill, and openness to new experiences characteristic of many Union students. it is these kinds of qualities that allow students ta take advantage of the existence here of many opportunities for learning outside the conventional classroam setting that is in turn another of Union's distinguishing marks. Taken as a whole, Union's terms abroad and exchanges, its internships, the senior project requirement of many departments, and the provision of a growing number of research opportunities supported both by College funds and foundation grants represent opportunities for intellectual and personal development which may be unmatched by any other small college. Both the quality of less conventional opportunities for learning available here and conventional classroom lear- ning are enhanced by the strength of commitment that Union faculty bring to teaching By JOSEPH L. MAMMOLA To the point - our strengths: the vibrancy, resiliency and self-confidence of the students. Union students are tough, both achievers and survivors. There are very few (if any) places to \hide\ in the curriculum. It's hard to walk across the stage at commencement and not have experienced significant, dif- ficult intellectual work (not always true at some other campuses). The faculty's commitment to the ad- vancement of learning is primarily directed to students (as opposed to their own in- dependent research). The faculty is continuously con- cerned that students care about learning; they want to see an even greater commitment on the part of students outside the classi'oom and willingly par- ticipate in activities that promote such learning. Other strengths: our much-improved athletic and social facilities (especially during the last two years). Good teaching and lab fnrilitiC's. For thr most part, students and faculty seem to be comfortable at the College. There is a good \fit\ between faculty's academic ex- pectations and students' career goals and their willingness to meet high standards to ac- complish them. Union's size is a maj !lr strenght: it is not unusual to see the same people a number of times during the same day at different locations and events on the campus. Our size provides many op- portunities for such accidental meetings and promotes a strong potential for community. Some things to be improved: the long hard winter. We could letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinons of the editorial board .of Concordiensis and \mentoi'ing.\ Based on. the judgments of outsiders and rny own observation of oth.er colleges, I am confident i;n saying that it is unusual to :find a faculty as committed to serious scholarship as is U:nion's faculty that is at tbe same time so deeply involved with students. Union has a tradition very different from that .of most liberai arts colleges. Starting with EUphalet Nott and his alternative cui'ricuJum allowing I'oom for those students who wanted a cha!lce to study sdence and modern languages as well as the classical sabjects, Union has reflected more diversity in curriculum than most liberal arts colleges. Furthermor-e it cannot be denied that we have been more oriented to \the useful\ than mast, as eviclent by the introctuction in lS45 of the first program in engineering among colleges and the ocn- tinued presence of a vigorous engineering program up to this very moment. Our diversity-has meant that it has been m11ch harder for us to establish a stable identity that it has for the typical liberal arts college. But that diversity has also been a source of strength, saving us from the illusion that there is do without January, Febr11ary, and March. Our single- dimension social life: tap-a·keg and a crowd gathers. Perl1aps we need to offer a campus-wide prize for the best new suggestions about what could be done to add a little sparkle (oc a lot) to the redundant party life. Any risk-takers out there? We need to learn to use the new College Ce11ter creatively, with imaginative programs that can bring the community together. Some other deanly wishes: less socializing in the library (a real embarassment to the College! ) ; greater concern for the beauty of the campus (the vandalism and trashing are simply incomprehensible); a need for students to feel they have a responsiblility in maintaining and passing 011 the character and history of the campus to future students; and more tolerance and respect for others in the residence halls only one valid perspective in the small college. Our problems are many, but few are fundamental, some are on the way to solution and some of the more difficult are about to be subject to efforts to find solutions. Developments in the larger society have always had an impact on colleges. During the last several years, a national tui'ning away from the arts and humanities has threatened the balance which we must maintain among the four divisions of the College in order to preserve the reality of diversity within the context of Union's tradition as a liberal arts college. We can be thankful that the numbers of students with a serious interest in the arts and humanities has begun to increase from levels suf- ficientl-y low so as to threaten the existence of the critical mass necessary to provide the proper stimulation and esprit de corps. We need to continue to make the College more at- tractive to such students while at the same time ensuring that we maintain the attractiveness of the natural sciences, engi:neering, and social sciences. As dangerous to us as any Continued on page 11 (lower stereo effusions, more conscientious adherence to study hours, less animal yells, etc.) There are two sides to most Union students: one can !Je seen in the grim (but generally self-confident), determined faces one sees on the mornings of the first day of final exam week or in the faces of students marching to the Career Center for job interviews and the faces of Camp Uni-on, enjoying the short-lived spring rays, slightly skeptical of it all, determined to have a good time now because the first day of exams is next Monday - and that means work. My father used to tell me that my problem was I liked hanging around college campuses too much- and he was right! This is not a bad place to hang around, if you must. Joseph Mammola is Dean of Students

CONCORDJENSIS, ~eptembe1 24, ·1981 Page 11 COMM.ENTARIES Strengths of Union? continued .from page 10 potential loss 10f . balance and diversity within the College is the temptation to acc~pt less minority. Tlu~ challenge. that has been a<:ceptEd by our Dean of Admissioru aDd his staff is to ·give us the largest possible number of stutlents wbo have the attributes we value most highly: a gern.Jine thirst for knoWledge,. intellectual curio'si~y, tlte: ability and commitment necessary to reach a !l:tigh level of achievement, ~nd the desire to contribute to a· c-onununi~y of diverse interEsiS and talents. ByE. J, CH,AIG , What's wrong with .Union? Wllat areas could use im- provement? ... All of them! When I read the topic on which were .ask.ed to write I thought of two people: Lincoln Steffens and Bill Murpb.y. Lincoln .Steffens was an American. journalist (1866° 1936). He did much to make himself unpopular, principally by his criticism of corruption in gover~entM Teddy Hoosevelt labelled him a 'muckraker', i.e. one who stirs up :muck to ino crease its foul odor. But this is n9t why the topic reminded me of him: it was an article tbat he wrote for Cos·mopolitau .in wnich he encourpged parents tv. instill in their children the pioneer spir'it; there is nothing· in the world that people do that cannot be done better; He wrote: Nothing. is done. Everything in the-w.brld remains to be done, or done over ... A faucet leaks. I cannot close it tigllt. Good. I call :r.ny seven-year old son. He seiZesthe faucet, tries to, turn it off. c~~t. He grins. · ''What's the matter, Pete?\ I ask. He looks Up happily and gives the answer. \Grown-ups/ Daddy.\ Propaganda,ofcourse.Ihave taught ldln that we, his elders, cannot make a fit faucet. Ancllle may... ~ Teach your children - That nothing is done, finally an.d right; . . . And SQ it is at Union. All departments and programs can .be improved. It may be tr11e that some are now on harder By mOMAS-D' ANDREA The Editors of Concordiensis have invited comment on tb.e strengths, weaknesses, and areas needing improvement at the College. I could repeat remarks I made at tile ~President's Convocation for new students during Orientati()n or at the Opening Convocatbn last Thursday about ·the quality of the faculty, their dedicatbn to the students, the excellent and conscientious student body, etc., buti am sure·()thers will take this opportunity to recite our glories. There is a nettling problem that has persisted over the years and comes to at- tention now -that the students· times than others, but ·this is a guantity that is hard to measQre. InQ.ustry uses velume of -business and profits to measure success. That yard:. stick simply Will not work in an envirompent of teaching and scholarly activity. What I can comment on are the areas at Union that have itn,proved the most in the .past decade. Heading the list are the physical facilities, the buildings and grounds, and the improved maintenance provided by the · Physical Plant. Close behind is the College. erf'dowment, which has more than doubled in the last eight years. I entered Union as a freshman in Sept. 1941, and have. taught here for 32 years, and in my opinion the College is now in better shape than it has been' in any period since my first arrival. I personally believe that the quality of tJ;le students and facw.ty are at an- ail-time high. To be sure improvement is possible, I suppose, but having taught at M.I. T. I believe the only real ·distinction between our students and theirs is ,that M.I. T. does get a few more of the genius type$ than we do. Comparing Union's faculty and that of M.I;T. is not really :possible since the latter school is a research university . and hence tbe attention' gi~en to students by the faculty is far less than it is here. In tenns of scientific and engineering research M.I. T. is clearly ahead of Union; in· terms of good teaching and attention to un- dergraduates Union is ·far ahead of M.l. T. Interc~llegi~te Athletics have alway$ been · very good at Union, but they have experience than the best when it comes to considerable imprQvement in our central concern, the the last decade. The new academic enterprise; As facilities Will. certainly help faculty, our responsibility is to them improye even more. . maintain. the highest scholarly In my own bailiwick, standards in our own work and engineer.ing, we have do·ne to inspire~ by example and .some very positive things with convey through our teaching, curriculum this past year. l evaluation, and mentorlng the believe that overall the faculty highest quality·work of which is better than it ever has· been. students are capable. As for Certainly the computer students, their responsibility is facilities are excellent, and to take the academic enterprise much has been done to improve seriously as members of a the laboratories and their community of learners, to equipment. But there is more to demand the best of themselves do; things ca,JI be Unproved. and, above all, to cultivate a My only real disappointment habit of learning that can enrich in the College now .is tne state of the remainder of their lives. faculty .collegiality: it coUld be The responsibility of ad- improved a lot. I cannot un- ministrators, including the derstand why an excellent Dean of the FacUlty, is to make faculty ~annot appreciate each sure that the resources and other's talents. Fortunately the ingenuity of the College are disease is not at the epidemic directed. as effectively as stage, and, with the arrival of a possible to the support of the good program in general' academic enterprise. In a real education, most wounds may sense,. those in administrative heal. {Note: do not infer from and staff positions share with this that I believe the liberal the faculty responsibility for learning program is bad. It is achieving our central purpose. just that in aJ:!:Y healthy living But we must rememb~r that no organism things must change matter how good are our fund- with time~) raising efforts, our admissions Oh yes! Why did this remind operation and other support me of Bill MUl1>hy? Bill is. functions, the College cannc,t . Thomas Lamont 1 Research improve the quality of tbe Professor of Ancient and education it offers and· its Modern Literature at Union. standing among American One day the mother of a Union coileges unless we consistently student awted Bill: · and persistently use.the health \Which of the courses taught of the academic enterprise as in the English Department are the primary criterion inmaking remedial?\ important decisions on a wide Bill replied: \All of them!\ range of matters. What a neat guy! ·· This is a moment of op- ..... E..;..;,:;;J;.:,: • .:.C,;:,;r..;;a;;,;;ig.;:;..;;,.i~s;;;:a...._P __ r_o_lje-s-s.-or- portunity for the College. In recent years we .have converted of Electrical Engineering some of our weaknesses to and Dean of Engineeri11g strengths, as evidenced .by the ]Jave returned for the academic respect for this beautiful magnificence. of the new College Center, the remarkable transformation . of alumni Gymnasium and the steady improv~ment in the appearance of our grounds. We have made recent progress towards -in- creasing the numbers of women and minorities in the student body and the faculty. We have taken important steps in the admissions area, including making the SAT optional, upgrading our alumni recrUiting effort, and producing a video which I believe will convey to potential applicants a year. Once again we see the campus. Unfortunately, other campus unnecessarily littered than to plead for more care of with the ubiqUitous plastic cups, our environment, I have no good the senseless vandalism of suggestions for a solUtion to this uprooting the shrubbery in front problem, but I am encouraged ·of Bronner House, etc. The that last year a number of shrubbery incident has' oc- students organized themselves cUrred at least a dozen times to see what ways there might be last year and now has reswned that they coul,!i contribute to the again last weekend. (It can be maintenance of the College argued, of course, that not all bujldings and campus. Tileir the vandalism and mischief is efforts should be applauded and done by Union students. Those encouraged; I wish them of us on campus year round, ~ success in their work. however, see the strong correlation between presence of the studerits and some of these occurrences.) I find it very puzzling and deeply disturbing that we have so little pride and Thomas D'Andrea is Vici President of Academic Affairs LETTERS sense of Union's dynamism, diversity and commitment to _ the academic. Beyond effCJr:-ts lil admission~, the challenge f~r the College IS to draw into :tile conununity of learners that minority of students wh() a~e alienated from what mol.lld be our colllillon enteiJ>iise and to ensure that we provide to all of our students the sort of ex- perience that e11ables them to achieve the IllelKirnurn possible intellectual gr()~b. Aside from the obligatiCJn of facUlty to which I have already alluded, this requires that we pay at· tention to tw() ·matters. One is the currictilwn, ami that we are now addressing~t what we all hope will be th.E.:final stages of a long and pr()duetive process. The second is 'tile quality of the larger learnin~' environment at the College. Ker'e I am not talking ab()ut opportunities for ·~college bull sessions\ but rather about providing an enriched, inte]eetual, cUltural and social milieu for the entire community. Tl!e College Center provides a fCJcal point for such an effort an.d! the commitment of the acadenic deans and the Dean of Stude11~ to cooperative efforts provides. needed impetus Whatever direction Union chooses to gCJ;. '\\'e must be true to our historyaJid build upon the strengths that we already have, perhaps it is 1tl'u~, as Union's President from 1934 to 1945 Dixon Ryan li\o:x believed, that Union has heen a bit too much concerned with tile usefUl and not quite cC>ncerned enough with the implications of the usefUl. And .Ala11 Bloom in The Closing of til~ American Mind may be right ill! urging that universities aJ:ui colleges must turn back hclt\'der toward book learning. But 'i}oth our history and our contem]lorary strength suggest that thE role that has been, and is, a:vailable to Union lies at the nex11s between ex- perience ani reflection. We should remeniJer that what stands as perbaps the most acute reflection UIJOn American society was C()onstructed by a man of collSidrable book learning wh()toolt the trouble to travel throu.gb .America and be ------------------------------------------------ Together with other steps taken, and to be taken, in ad- missions, the decision to make the SAT optional symbolizes our determination to look beyond those indicators which can give stubtle encouragement to the perception that success in higher education consists merely of learning \the rules of the game\ and developing coping strategies that enable one to maximize one's grade point with the minimum of a close observer, Alexis de Tocqueville- VJe should also remember th:::it Eliphalet Nott, the very wottdly and practical man of arrairs, inventor and entrepreneurp ·~adas one of ~s greatest ilcllie\iel?ents h1s _ senior course m moral philosophy. h1 their own way both can serv~ a models as we strive to take- a:d~antage of the opportunity ttl improve the academic ellterprise and ar- ticulate our Utntlty. sc·haffer Stops Periodical Circulation To the editor: By this time in the Fall Term, all of you .... students, faculty, administrators, and staff-are aware that Schaffer Library will no longer circulate periodicals. This may be mO<re of a sqrprise to students than to faculty, because most faculty will have come ac1·oss similar policies either as lln- dergraduates or graduate students. Whilethe policy of any peer institution is no deter- mining reason on which to .base a decision, it is a standard and widespread practice among academic libraries not to eir- culate periodicals. Although the decb~ion to stop circUlatingpetio.dicals comes at about the same time as the implementation of the in- tegrated online library automation system, it is not because of the advent of the automation system that the decision was made. The policy decision is a sound one distinct from automation. Furthennore, it was a decision r.ot lightly made. The question of cir- culation of periodicals lias been reviewed abnost annually since I came to Union College in 1973. There were a number of points to be considered in reaching the. decision, some more important than others: +the costs of replacement of missing issues, + the difficulty, and in some cases the impossibility, of obtaining missing issues. Replacement o! missing_. issu~s or volumes, when possible, IS costly, usuallY more than the original price. In addition to paying for the same issue twice, second-time postage and processing costs must be added on. Last year Schaffer Library spent about $2,000.00 for replacement of missing issues; this coming year we have budgeted $2,500.00 .(The in- crease reflects increased binding. Issue loss becomes apparent when a volume is prepared for binding.) +the availability of relatively inexpensive copying, +the increasing number ()f requests from both faculty and students to restrict periodical circulation. It is simply a fact that journal articles are more readily available to more ilSers if the journals do not circulate. Furthennore, the recall system is cumbersome and is honored more in the breach than the _observance by borrowers. Recall requests for other patron !dans or for binding purposes are often ignored. As I stated in my original · co~trnent and effort. Buf- feted by many perverse pressures, American high schools produced great nwn.- bers of such students. As is the case with many other colleges similar to Union, we have our share of such students, albeit a memo of 5 August 1987, the change in policy may cause some inconvenience on occasion for some individuals, but we made the decision in the firm belief that the entire campus community will be better James lJnrierwood is a Professor of Political Science llrld Director of General Education served. I hoiJe I can count on the Wlderstanding a11d support. of all our libralj' u5ers regarding our decision ill tllis matter. Sincerely, Ann M. Seeman Letters to the Ed. it or s h,ould be typed, double spaced and delivered to Concord i·ensis by 5:00 p.m. Monday

CONCORDIENSlS, Septe.nr:..ber 24, 1987 Page 11 Strengths of Union? What's \Vrong with Union? What arems. could use im- provement\? ... AU of them! When I rEad the tDpic on which wer~ asked to write I thought of t,.,o people: Lincoln Steffens and Bill Murphy. Lincoln Steffens was an American journalist (1866- 1936). He did much to make himself urtpopular, principally by his critiCism of corruption in government. Teddy Roosevelt labelledhirn a 'muckraker', i.e. one who ~i~:s up muck to in- crease its foi.il odor. But this is not why thE topic reminded me of him: it was an article that he wrote for Cosmopolitan in which he eiJ~ouraged parents to instill in tl1eir chi,ldren the pioneer spirit; there is nothing in the world ihat people do that cannot be done better. He wrote: Nothing i; done. Everything in the·world.l'emains to be done, or done over ... A faucet leaks. I cannot clo:;;e it tight. Good. I call my se-ven-year old son. He seizes the fa11cet, tries to turn it off. Can't. Ile grins. \What's tbe matter, Pete?\ I ask. He looks UIJ happily and gives the answ~r. \Grown -ups,' Daddy.\ Propaganda,ofcourse.Ihave taught h:ifn that we, his elders, cannot ma:ke a fit faucet. And he may... _ Teach your children - That nothing is done, finally and right. ... And Sll it is at Union. All departments and programs can be improved. It may be true that some are now on harder By THOMAS D'ANDREA The Edii();rs of Concordiensis have invite~ comment on the strengths, weaknesses, and areas nee«iillg improvement at the Colle~e. I could repeat remarks l made at the President's Convocation far new student:;; during Orientation or at the OJ)ening Convocation last Thursday about the quality of the faclllty, their dedication to the stud-Ents, the excellent and conscieotious student body, etc., but I am sure others will take this opportunity to recite our· glories. There is a nettling problem tha.t has persisted over the years and comes to at- tention now that the students times than others, but this is a quantity that is hard to measure. Industry uses volume of business and profits to measure success. That yard- stick simply will not work ifl an environment of teaching and scholarly activity. What I can comment on are the areas at Union that have impreved the most in the past decade. Heading the list are the physical facilities, the buildings and grounds, and the improved maintenance provided by the Physical Plant. Close behind is the College endowment, which has more than doubled in the last eight years. I eDtered Union as a freshman in Sept. 1941, and have taught here for 32 years, and in my opinion tbe College is now in better shape than it has been in any period since my fir~ arrival. I personally believe that the quality of the students and faculty are at an all·Hme high. To be sure impr'ovement is possible, I suppose, but having taught at M.I. T. I believe the only real distinction between our students and theirs is that M.I.T. does get a few more af the genius types than we do. Comparing Unian's faculty and that ·of M.I.T. is not really possible since the latter school is a research university and hence the attention given to students by the faculty is far less than it is here. In terms af scientific and engineering research M.I.T. is clearly ahead of Union; in terms of good teaching and attention to un- dergraduates Uni(Jn is far ahead of M.I. T. IntercQllegiate Athletics have always been very good at have returned for the academic year. Once again we see the campus unnecessarily littered with the ubiquitous plastic cups, the senseless vandalism of uprooting the shrubbery in front of Bronner House, etc. The shrubbery incident has oc- curred at least a dozen times last year and now has reslUlled again last weekend. (It can be argued, of course, that not all the vandalism and mischief is done by Union students. Those of us on campus year round, however, see the strong correlation between presence of the students and some of these occurrences.) I find it very puzzling and deeply disturbing that we have so little pride and Union, but they have experience considerable improvement in the last decade. The new facilities will certailll:y help them improve even more. In my own b.aUiwick, engineering, we have done some very positive thin.gs with curricuLum this past year. I believe that overali tile faculty is better than it ever has been. Certainly the computer facilities are excellelllt, and much has been done t() improve the laboratuies anti their equipment. But there is more to do; things can be improved. My only real disappointment in the College now is tbe state of faculty collegiality: it could be improved a lot. I can11ot W1- derstand why an excellent faculty cannot appreciate each other's taleats. FortUilately the disease is not at the epidemic stage, and, with the arrival <>fa good program in general education, most woUI!ds may heal. (Note: do not infer from this that [ believe tile liberal learning program is bad. It is just that in any healthy living organism things must change with time.) Oh yes! Why did this remind me of Bill Murphy? Bill is Thomas Lamont 1 Re·search Professor of Ancie11t and Modern Literature at Union. One day the mother of a Union student a~ked Bill: \Which: of the courses taught in the English Department are remedial?\ Bill replied: \All of them!\ What a neat guy! E.]. Craig is a Professor of Electrical Engir.zeering and Dean of Engilr.eering respect for this beautiful campus. Unfortunatelyr, other than to plead for more care of our environment, I have no good suggestions for a solution to this problem, but I am enc()uraged that last year a nllltlber of students organized themselves to see what ways there might be that they could contribute to the maintenance of the College buildings and campus:. Their efforts should be applau.ded and encouraged; I wish! them success in their work. Thomas D'Andrea is Vice President of Academic Affairs LETTERS Schaffer Stops Periodical Circulation To the editfilr: By this time in the Fall Term, all of y~lll-students, faculty, administrators, and staff-are aware that Schaffer Library will no longer circulate periodicals. This may be more of a surpris.e to students than to faculty, b~cause most faculty will have !!Orne across similar policies either as un- dergradua.tes or graduate students. W'hile the policy of any peer instit.ution is no deter- mining rea::~on on which to base a decisio11, it is a standard and widespread practice among academic libraries not to cir- culate peritOdicals. Although the decision to stop circulating periodicals comes at about th~ same time as the implementati<m of the in- tegrated online library automati<Jil system, it is not because of the advent of the automation system that the decision was made. The policy decision is a soWld Qlle distinct from automation. Furthermore, it wa~ a decision r.ot lightly made. The question of cir· culation of periodicals has been reviewed almost annually since I came to Union College in 1973. There were a number of points to be considered in reaching the decision, some m<>re important than others: +the costs of replacement of missing issues, + the difficulty, and in some cases the impossibility, of obtaining missing issues. Replacement of missing issues or volwnes, when possible, is costly, usually m<>re than the original price. In addition to paying for the same issue twice, second-time postage and processing costs must be added on. Last year Schaffer Library spent about $2,0()().00 for replacement of missin~ issues: this coming year we have budgeted $2,500.00 (The in- crease reflects irncreased binding. Issue loss becomes apparent when a VGilume is prepared for binding.) +the availability of relatively inexpensive copying, +the increasing nwnber of requests from both faclllty and students to restrict periodical circulation. It is simply a fact that journal articles are more readily available to lll<Jre users if the journals do not circulate. Furthermore, the recadl system is clUllbersome and is honored more in the breach than the observance by borrowers. Recall requests for other patron loans or for binding purposes are often ignored. As I stated in my- original COMMENT ARIES Cor:ttlnued from page 10 potential loss of balance and diversity within the College is the temptation to accept less than the best wh~n it comes to ()Uf central concern, the academic entErprise. As faculty, our resp<msibility is to maintain the higllest scholarly standards in oru own work aad to inspire by example and convey through our teaching, evaluation, and mentoring the highest quality work of which students are capable. As £or students, their responsib1lity is to take the academic enterprise seriously as members of a community ef learners, to demand the best of themselves and, above all, to cultivate a habit of learning that can enrich the remainder of their lives. The responsibility of ad- ministrators, including the Dean of the Facility, is to make sure that the resources and ingenuity of the College are directed as effectively as possible to the support of the academic enterporise. In a real sense, those in ~dministrative and staff positi()ns share with the faculty responsibility for achieving our central purpose. But we must remember that no matter how goocl are our fund- raising efforts, our admissions operation and other support functions, the College cannot improve the quality of the education it offers and its standing am<>ng American coileges unless we consistently and persistently use the health of the academie enterprise as the primary criterion in making important decisions on a wide range of matters. This is a ffi{)ment of op- portunity for the College. In recent years we have converted some of our weaknesses to strengths, as evidenced by the magnificence <Jf the new College Center, the remarkable transformation of alumni Gymnasium and the steady improvement in the appearance of our grounds. We have made recent progress towards in- creasing the numbers of women and minorities in the student body and the faculty. We have taken important steps in the admissions area, including making the SAT optional, upgrading ()Ur alumni recruiting effort, and producing a video which I believe will convey to potential applicants a sense of Unioll's dynamism, diversity and eonunitment to the academic, Together with other steps taken, and to be taken, in ad- missions, the dedsion to make the SAT optional symbolizes uur determination (() look beyond those indicators which can give stubtle encouragement to the perception that success in higher education consists merely of learnir~g \the rules of the game\ and developing coping strategies that enable one to maximize one's grade point with the minimum of cepunitment and effort. Buf- feted by rnany perverse pressures, American high schools produced great num- bers of such students. As is the case with many other colleges similar to Union, we have our share of such students, albeit a memo of 5 August 1987, the change in poli-cy may cause some inconvenience on occasion for some individuals, but we made the decision in the firm belief that the entire campus community will be better minority. Th-e challenge that has been ac<!epted by our- Dean of Admissions and his sWf is to ·give us th.e largest possible number ef .students who have the attributes we value most highly: a genuine thir~t for knowledge, intellectual curiosity, the ability and commitment necessa~ to reach a high level of achievemeni, and the de~ire to contribute to a commurnity of diverse interests and talents. Beyand ef:f()rts in admissions, the challenge for the College is to draw into the conununity of learners t:hat minority of students wh() are alienated from what should be our common enterprise and to ensure that we provide to all of our students the sort ~nf ex- perience that enables tlhern to achieve the maximum possible intellectual growth. Aside from the obligati()n of facullty to which I have already alluded, this requires that we p;ay at- tention to two matters. One is the curriculum, and that we are now addres.si.ngat what we all hope will be the final stages of a long ami pr-oductive process. The second is tlle quality of the larger learning environment at the College. Here I am not talking about opportunities for \college !Yull sessions\' but rather abollt providiag an enriched, intellectual, cllltural and social milieu for the entire community. The College Center provides a f()ocal point for such an effort anti the comndtment of the acadEmic deans a.nd the Dean of Students to cooperative efforts provicles needed impetus Whatever direction Union chooses to g~, we must be true to our history and build upon the strengths tilat we already have. perhaps it is true, as Union's President :from 1934 tl(} 1945 Dixon Ryan Fox believeod, that Union has been a bit to<> much concerned 1.Vith the useful and not quite c-oncerned enough with the implications «Jf the useful. And Alan Bloom in The Closing of the America11 Mind may be right in urgin~ that universities and colleges must turn back harder toward book learning. Bil!t both our history and our comtemporary strength suggest that the role th~t has been, and is, available to Union lies at the nex:us betweoen ex· perience and reflection. We should remember that what stands as p-erhaps the most acute refleC'tion upon American society was constructed by a man of c:onsidrable book learning who took the trouble to travel throug:h America and be a close observer, Alexis de Tvcqut!villc, We.: ;,huulu abv remember that Efiphalett Nott, the very w«Jrldly and practical man of arrairs. im·entor and entrt!preneul·. haJa,; one of ~s greatest ctdiieYt:~lents his senior cottrse m moral philosophy. in their own way both can serve a models as we strive to ta kt: advantage of the opportunit~- to impron~ the academic enterpnsc mnd ar- ticulate our identity. James JJ nderwuod is a Profess or of Polieical Science aard ()irertr~r of Geneva! Educatif'm served. I h()p-e I can coun&. on the understanding and supBJOrt of all our library users regarding our decisi0on in this matter, Simcerely, Ann M. Seeman Letters to the Editor should be typed, double spaced and delivered to Concordiensis by 5:00 p.m. Monday

I Page 12 CO.NCORDIENSIS,_ Septcm!J~.t 24, · 19g7 .. ,.· .... . . . . . : : . . ; . . . . . :=~ . : ..... ::: •, :::;:. :':: . A RTS/Fifi:lfllS - .:.. :~. . :.· .. --· .. . . . . Union Hosts Pulitzer Poet By GAIL BLUN:ENFELD On Monday, Sept.ernber 28, at 8:00 p.m., Uni()ll. College proudly presents ll reading by Gwendolyn Brooks, ()Qe of the major American .pl)ets of the twentieth century. A.s a writer of poetry for miJre than four decades, Ms. Brcoks has had her imaginativE style of language cQmpar~Eld to T.S. Elliot, Walt \Vilitman and Robert Frost. Site has also received some of the most prestigious a~uds for literature includin~ the Pulitzer Prize for poetry i.l1 1950. Most of Gwend:<JlYIJ Brooks' work reflects hEr- Ex:periences and observatio11s as a Black woman, and she feels that her writing has gaine!l clarity from her acute perl!eption of the Black exp.erience · in America. Her poetry is wi\itten so that it appeals to the masses, instead of only to the intellectuals. It is this quality ofher writing which has gained her the title of \the pied piper of poetry'' and \the grand dame of letters.\ For seven. months of the year Ms. Brooks travels around the country giving readings and lectures,. including numerous stops at elementary and secondary schools. Her dramatic readings have the .ability to captivate audiences young and old alike. This special program is being sponsored jointly by the English Department, Minority Affairs, Women's Studies, Student Forum, Minerva Committee and the Black and Latin Alliance of Students~ Arts Happenings On Cam:pus TOM RUSH TRIO ... Folk. music. Presented in the Dutch Hollow on Friday the 2!ith irom 3-5 p.m. MOSQUITO OO.AST ... film starring Harrison Ford as a crazed inventor who takes his family to South Africa to escape the • civilized world. \t 1he College Center Auditorium Fri., Sat. and Sun., at 7, 9 a11d j t p.m. POETRY REA131f.IG ... Gwendolyn Brooks, first black woman to win a Pulitzerprize for poetry (1950), will present a reading·of her works on Vbnday, September 28th at 8 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium. CHAMBER MlJS.JC ... On Wednesday, September 30th a concert by G:raek violinist Leonidas Kavakos and pianist Nancy Nagy will' be presented at 7:30 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets for the !)erformance are available at the door, or local .community box ()Hices. Off Campus AT THE EGG ... :~usical theatre version of \lili\ to start the 1 Oth anniversary season of the EGG. Show runs from September 26th to Octob&r !Stlt IRISH MUSIC A.N:D DANCE .•. At Proctor's Theatre, Schenec- tady on Tuesday-, September 29th at 7:00p.m. MELISSA MAt\ICHESTER. .. At Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady on Tuesday, SEptember 29th at 7:00p.m.. . YO-YO MA ... At Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady on September 28th. Playb·oy M·ag.azine Fiction ·Conte.st ' By JAN GOLDSTEIJS: stude-nts are invited to submit featured in the October issue of Playboy, with the 1987 winning entry being featured. Steven Ploetz, a student at Brown University penned the winner, a short story titled \In Love with Rachel,\ and was awarded a cash ptize of$3,000. Playboy magazine has recently announced. that en \tries are now being accepted' f()r its 1988College Fiction Contest . .All registered undergradull te, graduate and part-iime Tenure Committ.ee entries· of original nction to the contest. The deadline for en- trie~ is January 1, 1988, with eacll entry being judged by the editors of Playboy magazine. 'The- contest rUles will be •WANTED• ONE FLAUTIST ·ONE .BASSIST _ VlOLA PLAYERS! An ad hoc Committee !'las been formed to evaJu9te !he tenurability of Martin BenjarniA, Assistant Professor of the Arts. Committee members are Professors Prosper (Ecan- omics), Reich (Physic:s), Robbins (Arts}, and Marten (English), Committee Chair, Those who wish to offer 'tllieir views reg~rding · Prof&sso r Benjamins's teaching, r&- search ·Or college servic.e :are invited to write to any: membaer of the Committee, or 1o contact Professor Marten (ext. 6:28<1) to arrange an interview. UNION COLLEGE CHAMBER ORCHESTRA Mozart-Men<lelssohn~Haydn REHEARSALS 7:15-9:1'5 THURSDAYS, MEMORIAL CHAPEL • Instrument~ Available Contact Asst. Prof. Hilary Tann Ext, 6566 A.rts Buildi11g Room 320 _ 'The. :Fi!rn Cornrn'Ltte.e P-resents 'The :Fa.££ novL& Sched:u[.e; 1987 Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Frt-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Fri-Sun Tues Septembelf' 18, 19, 2() Septembetr:22 Septembe:r :25, 26, 27 Septernbe r :29 October 2,. 3, 4 October 6 October 9, 10, 11 October 1:3 October 1'E, 17, 18 . October 2~ October 2:3. 24, 25 October 27 October 3l0,. 31 November 'I November3 NovembErS, 7, 8 NovembEr10 Noveml>er13, 14, 15 Novemb~r17 Noveml>er 20, 21, 22 Novemb~r 24 Outrageous · Fortune Nightshift Mosquito Coast The Man Who Fell to Earth Sid and Nancy The World According To Garp Star Trek IV MY Beautiful Laundrette The Colo.r of Money The Postman Always Rings Twice Hoosiers Sleeping Beauty The Hitcher Blade Runner Children of a Lesser God Bananas Lethal Weapon Life of Brian Tin Men The lnmlaws 7,9, 11 7' 9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 8,10:30 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7 9 11· ' ' 7, 9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7,9, 11 7, 9, 11 7, 9, '11 7, 9, 11 7,9, 11 ARTS WRITERS NEEDED For All Topics: M.usic, Dance, Theatre Etc. Call Jim At 346-3401 Or Jan At 372-1511 ·

CONCORDIENSTS, SepternlJel' 24, 19JJ.7 Page 13 The Art of Baseball By DAVE GULLIVER Anyone who watches baseball notices the combination of grace and .power, skill and chance, harmony and discord. And you always think that you're the only one to think ofit that way. You're wrong, and you'll be delighted with \Diamonds are Forever: Ar-- tists. and Writers on Baseball,'' the new. e;dtibit at the New York State Museum in Albap.y. Tom Seaver was the .gue$t speaker at the opening of the exhibit, a lure .to any fan, and he was an appropriate ,guest,_.there are two naintinl!s of him, one by Andy Warhol. The· exhibit is a pleasure for an art or Iiterature lover or a baseball lover. Peter Gordon, the eldlibit curator, says that the artist. puts an everyday person~s feelings into art, and \Play Ball\ by langenstein (1982) Music Notes I . By JIM MacLAUGHLIN English rock group The Call has recently released a new album entitled \Into the Woods\ on Electra. Following the 1986 hit LP, \Reconciled the group has eshewed the use of ·Cameo appearances by -the likes of Peter Gabriel and Robbie Robertson, reco~ding the whole album by themselve~. \I Don't Wanna\ and \1loo Many Tears\ are tbe strongest ~ cuts on the LP . . . \The Dead Milkmen•' claimed a Special notch in music history this summ.er by insulting about 90 · percent ofthe nations's college students and the entire Greenwich Village with the highly sarcastic song, \You'll Dance to Anything.\ Funnier than the song, thougb, was watching how the ;\danceteria· types'' took: to the song :without getting the joke . . . From Rock group \The Call\ . Athens, Ge_orgia comes the .new· Capil;~l District feature some R.E.M. album entLtled real fme he~vy ~etal acts. J?~f \Document.\ Although not as Leppard hrmgs 1ts \Hyste~u~ ' \mainstream sounding\ as the tour tD the Glen Falls C1v1c past LP's from the group,. it Center on Thursd,ay, October does feature one of their finest 1st at 7:30 p.m. Also on Oct~ber songs, \To the One I Love\ , . . ~lth at 7:3~ HEART will deliver Upcoming concerts in the 1ts Bad ~unals Tour. Tri-Delta's 5 ANNUAL; 5KRUN TO BENEFIT CHILDREN'S CANCER [september 26, 1987[ 10 a.m.· Central Park, Sch~neetady $4 pfe-registratlon; $5 (lay of race Registration closes at 9:30 a~m. F:or further information. contact: Tri=.;Delta's Run Box 29, Union College . Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 the exhibit is therefore about art. · To eK:plain how the .game affects us, the exhibit is in five sections or themes: The Plac.e: The Perfect Greenness of It; The Eqlii[)ment: This Spare and . Sensual Object; The Players: One of tiJ.e Best Sonsabitches Ever to :Ieick a Toe Into Third Base; ''rhE Action: The Prac- ticed B~llet; and Something Else: Tlle Diamond Encloses What We,Are. Each sEction contains art- work aad literature from writers induding John Updike, Roger ..Angell, William Ken- nedy, .J)laywright Neil Simon and Garrison Keilor of the \Lake Woebegone'' series. Much ()f the artwork has never been sem in .public before; Gordoil said that most serious artists are reluctant t() admit they diq \baseball art.\ But .once wod.·of the exhi,bi.t got out, they fomd more . and more artists C()r:tb:ibuting. Som€ pieces are well known, like Illich.ael Langenstein's \Play ]Jail,\ {shown be-low), a re-adap\tion of Michelangelo's ''The Creation of Adam\ in which G~dgives thej>aseball to man. 01l'lei' pieces are more \Pete Rose\ by Andy Warhol modern, like What Gordon can add. called the \surprise closing.\ Seaver's favorite? An oil There is sculpture and . painting of Joe DiMaggio at the photography, including a shot of plate titled \The Wide Swing.\ my idol, former Yankee Craig Seaver said that the exhibit is Nettles. An enormous painting \a great way of getting people of Willie Mays'. miracle catch who normally wouldn't go to the off Vic Wertz in the '54 Series museum to go.\ For athletes leaps off the wall at you, while and art majors~and don't portrait and action paintings of forget, there's still \Dinosaurs anonymous minor leaguers are Alive\ across the hall. equally forceful. One last note: among my My favorite? An oil painting entitled \Out- at Third,\ a brilliant, fiery piece that combines traditional action witll the imagination an artist Arts Ski_dmore -Theatre Skidmore College is holding a symposium on Critical Issues facing the American Theater on Friday, October 9, beginning at 8 p.m. and Saturday, October 10, beginning at 9 a.m. Issues the panels will be discussing include: High Tech-Losses and Gains; Today's Audience-Commerce or Conscience; and Social & Political Agenda and the American Playwright. Dance Class favorites by Updike and Angell, there's a quote fr-om Jacques Barzun. \Whoever would know the heart ar.d mind of America had better know baseball.\ 'Nuffsaid. Briefs Chamber Music September 30 is the opening concert of this year's In- ternational · Festival of Chamber Music sponored by the Schenectady Museum and Union College, Leonides Kavakos, a twenty-year-old Greek violinist will be joined by pianist Peter Nagy at 8 p.m. Tickets can be purchased at all community box offices, the Schenectady Museum, the Palace Theater and at the door. For information on this concert and others in the series call 382-7890. Capital Repertory Classes for Modern Dance, Ballet, Jazz, and Improvisation will be offered this fall in the .performing arts studio in the Arts Building at Union College. The instructor will be Vera The Capital Repertory Orlock:, the New York Company is opening its seventh City-based. dancer who is a season on October third at the member of the Nancy Meehan Market Theater in the down- Dance Company and the Mini . town Theater Arts District. An Garrard Dance Theatre. Orlock expanded cast verson of Jane is the visiting dance professor Wagner's \TheSearchforSigns at Union. For information of Intelligent Life in the regarding class times and fees Universe\ will begin the C()ntact The Arts Office at six-play season, running for 37ll-6201. five and a half weeks. we[comes you to our new {ocation Wftitakg.r 5J{ouse 2n{~{oor afternoons: monfri. 2-4:30 evenings: sun- tliurs. 7-10:00 . J'

, ·.: Page 14 CONCORDiENSIS,. Septem'uer . \' I· w \' i .. \\\'*' Fred Savage and Peter Falk in \Princess Bride\ At the Movies Dirty Dancing performance brings about a whole n-ew perspectiv'1 on the situation. Grey, who seems to have matured since .her role in \Ferris Bueller's ·Day Off,\ portra;ys the role of Baby, the headstrong yoWlg woman, who is not afraid to battle the social conseqU:ences 9f loving a man from a far lower class t.IJ.an her own. ln the final scene, all social barriers are destroyed and it is discovered that money does not determine morality. In a classic rich girl in love with a poor boy scenario, \Dirty Dancing\ has succeeded in proving that loud music and provocative dancing are not the only factors in producing a fantastic movie. The acting talents of Jennifer Grey and Patrick Swayzee bring both emotional upheaval and spirit to the silver screen. Add a sub- plot of infidelity, an over .. protective father, and irrepressible passion, and the film now has all the ingredients of a crowd pleaser. The picture deals with the conflict of a 17· year-old girl's awakening at- traction to a controversial club dancer much to the dismay of her upper class family. This social dilemma has been seen countless times before but Jennifer Grey's outstanding The Princ·ipal The movie begins with James a result, is carted away by the \arson extortion, and .assault.'' Belushi sitting in a bar downing Police. This small outburst With Lou Gossett Jr. as flaming· shots. Belushi catches a eliminates any chance of Belusbi'S right-hand man, glimpse of his ex-wife entering reconciliation with his wife and Belushi proclaims, \N\o more\ with another man and proceeds at the same time, Belushi loses. and pledges to turn Brandell to hop over the bar, grab a his present teaching job. into a real school. Belushi baseball bat, and chase the man Belushi finds himself with no finally succeeds as principal out the door. Belushi ~nds h!s choice but to accept the position anq a<Ctor, turning in a fine rampag~ by Wlle~shm~ h1s as principal of Brandell High performance in his first leading frustrations on the wrndshteld of where the students major in movie role. Movie grade B+ the man's Porsche, and as Get the facts about AIDS. Send for your free copy of ''100 Questions and Answers About AIDS'' Write: N.Y.S. Health Dept. Box 2,0·00 Alba.ny, NY 12220 Fall Film. Preview By JAN GOLDSTEIN The Pick-Up Artist , . Molly Ringwald and Robert· Downey star in \The Pick-Up Artist,'' P romantic comedy put out by 2oth Century Fox Cor· poration .. Downey plays Jack Jericho, a master in the art of picking up women. Jericho begins to question his skills as a: master when he comes up against Randy, played by Molly Ringwald. qThe Pick-Up Artist\ is written and directed by James Toback and' co-stars Dennis Hoppj;lt, Danny Aillo and -Harvey Keitel. (Mohawk Mall Cinema} · The Princess B.ride Rob Reiner hascjoined -forces· with two-time academy winning screen writer William Goldman to bring forth the carnic movie \The Princess Bride.\ Peter Falk plays the part as the grandfather- who arrives to comfort his ill gx:andson. Falk attempts to comfort his ailing grandson by reading aluud the DUTC.H book, 'The Princess Bride' which he promises is .full of everything... fen~ing, fighting; torture, revenge, giants, monsters, chases, escapes, true love, ~nd yes, even miracles. All that he promises comes to life before thE) boy's very own eyes. (Coming soon to Mohawk Mall Cinema) PIPERS .. !- Ar·e yot~ interested in joining the ranks o1 the few,· the proud, the PIPERS? If .so,try outs will be Today and Tomorrow from 4:30-6:30 pm Any Questions? Cal'l Jeff: x 4087 Louis John: x · 4005 U.S. Department ol Health & Human Services TEST YOUR STRENGTH. QUITJING .. IT COULD BE THE TEST OF YOUR LIFE.

CONCORDJENSJS, September 24, 1987 Page lS You-r vote doe·s count.! WJEJLCCOMJB CC·JLASS OJF· 199 Jl Seepg~ 17 . Tutors fo.r· All Courses Description: Tutors employed by the AOP Office win assist students in achieving success in their co ursewor:k. ATTENTION! TUTORS NEED.ED RECOMMENDED BY LOOAL PHYSICIANS. e ,.MA Al'f\ROvED • I!WENINGIIOUt. AVAILAaLE • KIIEE CERTIFIED ElECTftOLOCiti!IT • ME-Ell LG.P;E. · oa '\\IVATf: IUNI~I e UF~OAILE RATEa PERMANENT HAIR REMOVAt · .BODY WAX.ING ( Ginny Evceg, C.P.E. a Chris Jones CALL FOR A FREE CONSULTATION & THE AIIJSWERS TO YOUR CONCERNS ABOUT IIAIR REMOVAL/ COfiiVE:,..oNT fNEE f'MIUNG r la6 9 -4 61 sl . ~ Do you feel _qualified-enough to tu.tor others and earri extra $$$$$ whi'le doing it? If so, AOP Tutoring Service Needs YouU Applications are Now being accepted for ALL Subject areas. For further information, Please See: Wanda Torres, AOP Office, Bailey HaU Room 101 TIME RUNNING OUT? IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT THE WILLIAMS-MYSTIC. PROGRAM PLEASE JOIN US FOR AN ILLUSTRATED TALK MONDAY, 5 OCTOBER, 4:00 PM MILANO LOUNG·E I r r.:===·~. =~======:~ ·II SENIOI PRE-MED STUOENTS.a Goold you use;·a scho.lorship for medJcol school'? Why not investigate the Armed Forces Heo:lth Professi-ons Sohojarship Program, with sponsorship 'by the U.S. Alr force. Current senior premedicr:J1 students of medicine or osteopat-hy mcry now compete tor Air ,Force scholcnships. We want to help you cont1nuevour education. Contact your j'Ocal Air force heoltn professions repmsen- tati ve for detaJ.Is. Call Capt AI Gugenbe.r :ger 1 - 80'0- USA -USAF J •. E.F. DEADLINE The deadHne for ;proposad·s for the Internal Education Foundation, in two categories- student-initiated research projects and \.e:cfuca- tionany innovative projects\ is Friday, October 16th. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have tfle written a:p.pnw.al 'Of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to tile Dean's office {S100.~ Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly~ members of ·the Co·l~eg.e C()mmunity who have \educationaHy jnnovative\ ~r<>po:sa!s should submit them to the same oftioe on ter-ms avaHable there. Forms for faculty Reooarch Proj~ are also available in the Dean's Office ·{S100}. Guidelines with ·respect to the I.E.F. are available in tbe Dean's Office. ·lnqu1ri.es ~bout ' l.E.F., tile guidelines, or the proposal deadljn-e should be directed to Dean Terry We.i11er, Acting Dean of Faculty. W.h~n pni;panng budge1s, please remember that per diem rates are normany limited to $50~00 per day. Tra11sportafi-on costs should also reflect the best rates avai-lable. Students who are planning t0 do inteniiews must ·I indicate that arrangements have already been I made. If your research includes work with tlur11an 1 subjec'ts, then the proposal must have pre1irninary approval from the Human Subjects Researc\h Committee before i! can be funded by tlle SubcounciJ on Research and Grants. Fall or Spring Semester I I I. I ! ! OR SEE DEAN DAN16LS AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES [ l £cG1ogy : i :Economics : . Biology , ; History , : Literature . American Studic., Pubh-..· .Po1K'I' ( ).:c~mugr41[\h' Ott· Sllun· Rr\'l'·<lrc:h j. Accrcdlt.ed by WILLIAMS COLLEGE Taught 11! . MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM I,.UIL Ill • •~•'I'• T II '• ,-,h._ ••11l.,111l•h\o 'lllololl • I tlu11olnl:> 111.! .I·•• '\ o• \ ·•'hu · ••• •' •• ~ ' 1 • ' 1 llioJtllJ.fOI\ I''; ' \, t, ~''•'1\.;l !1~1,.,,. ·'\ . ,], ~••.ll11 n ,, ''\' ' u. ~· .... !.' ,,,,,{, ,. '\ ''· ~-\h'\ ,, ·-· p., • ,.,,1 II•\ ,,, • • • ,,;,,l..t.·rl· '•. ,· ' •.. WILLI(\MS•A1YSTIC PROGRAM • MYS.TIC SEAPORT MUSEUM., INC. ·• 11\V~'TIC, CON.!IIECTI('UT llldS'5 • tlll.~l'i\Yl.;ij?n l:1u. ~-5'1 .. . •.

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, September 24, .1987 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The American-scandinavian Foundation ·announces its . competition for grants and . Fellowships in 1988-89. Through these. funds ASF encow·ages advanced study and researc:h in the Scandinavian countries. ' statement of career plans. a list ()if past public-service activities Otr other leadel\ship positi()ns, a (!tlrrent transcript, and a 600- '1\'()rd essay discussing a_public ,policy issue of their choice to Rrof. Charles Tidmarch, Truman Scholarship Faculty Hepresentative, SS 2H>, by October~. Awards are open to U.S. citizens CLASS IF IEDS and permanent residents who will have completed their un- dergraduate education at the Looking for college students time their Qversea'S program to work weekends ·for Mullen begins. For more infom1ation Moving and Storage business. contact 'the Financial Aid · Call 489.;a808 Albany or 3324524 Office. Application de~dline for · Schenectady, ask for Mike proposals for 1988·89 is Nov. 2, . , :N<Jlan, Jack Mullen, or Marty 1987. ; Mullen. Year roWld job. The National Space Club : announces its competitim for • 1988-89 Dr. Robert H. Goddard Scholarship! The NSC will · award a $7500 scholarship to: stimulate the interest of talented students in the op- portunity to advance scientific knowledge through space research and exploration. Applicants must be at the junior . year level or beyond with in· ! Help Wanted: Activities .Assistant for Saturday youth .and young adult programs. For appointment call 237-752:i. Help Wanted: Instructors for · after school youth program for weight training and gym- n.astics. Call 237-7523 for an aJ>pointment. tentions to pursue un- · · Earn $Hl - $660 weekly dergraduate or graduate mailing circulars! Rush self- studies in seience or addressed stamped envelope: engineering during the illterval Dept. AN..,7CC-FA, 9300 of the scholarship. For more Wilshire, Suite 470, Beverly information contact the · Hills, CA 90212. Financial Aid Office, 2nd Floor Becker Hall. Application deadline is Jan. 15, 1983. Union College can nominate three sophomores for the 1988 Apartment for rent available Nov. 1. 2 bedrooms within 10 min. from campus. $300 per month. Ccntact 374-3295. Harry S. Truman competition. Babysitter - in my home. The scholarship award ·covers . , Experienced. responsible person eligible expenses up to $7,000 ' Eor an active '6-month old baby. per year for the jtinior year, the Mom needs a day and an oc- senior year, and two years of • casional evening per week to graduate study. run errands. References. $4.75· To be eligible, a student must . lu. Call372-7~17. be a full-time sophomore working toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree, . · have a \B\ average or . equivalent, stand in the upper fourth of the class, and be aU .S. citizen of U.S. national heading toward a career in government. . Interested students should • submit a letter of application, a • GRE Fee waivers for test dates through Sept. 1988 may be applied for at the Financial Aid Office. The waiver covers the test fees for either the General 'lest, a Subject Test, or both. \I'here is only one waiver .allowed per eligible student. \Financial need for waiver must - be established by FinanCial Aid Office. Contact Ellen Frisll- . berg, Director of Financial Aid _ at x!il23 or Becker Hall, 2nd floor, for more info. Wanted: Part•time. help fO'r furniture store for various kinds of work (.pertaining to a fur· niture store--delivering, moving .... ) Call 374·:7785. Homeworkers wanted! Top pay! C,I. \21 244th Ave., N.W. Suite 222; Norman, OK 7306~. Wanted: Aggressive, en- thusiastic students to join tile '87-'88 Student Travel Services Sales Team. Earn free trips and cash, set your own hours, and gain excellent sales experience while marketing Winter aod Spring Break vacations. F1or · more information call 1-800-6411- 4875. College students earn $6 • $1() per hour working part-time on · campus. For more information~ cal11-800-932-0528. Babysitter Needed for 2 small children. Weeknights 5:10 -7:30 p.m. Now until about Dec. 11. Pays $25 per week. Short walk from college. Call 381-6!)34. CLUB NEWS Trip to Weston Priory, VT. The Newman Club is sponsoring a trip Sunday, September 27. We will leave .from the College Center at 8 am. It is a three· hour ride, mass with the Monks is at 11:30 a.m. Sister Joan will pack a picnic lunch. Please call 370-6087 if you wish to join us. Newman Club - Monday, September 28 at 7 pm in Milano · Lounge, 2nd· floor of Hale House. Brief business meeting followed by a Games Eveni:ng. ' Games will be supplied or bdng · your own favorite. •rutorial Program - Union College Students can be used in the following areas at St. Johrt the Evangelist School:Kin- dergarten Aides, Com.puter p.m. -Friday until 5 p.m. Math Aides, Library Aides and Saturday at 163() Nott Street. Math and Reading on a one-to- · Theme: Relationship$ - God, one. Please cc.ntact Kristin ·. myself, others. Donation of $5 Nelson, 386-4364.. · when you.register witl]Br. Joan. Folk Group -.All singers and Travel the world with San musicians intel'ested in being J · · part ofthe Music Ministry at the . ose State Umvers1ty Travel 7 3 ..an Study programs in 1988 for : 0 p.m. Sunue~y Liturgy may · professionally g· uided ex- meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 . . periences in the culture, p.m. m the churc;:b to rehearse; . language, history, wildlife,. and Newman Ac1ivity Sheets - other aspects of countries. from Please return to Sr, Jo~m, Australia to Zanzibat. Religious Program Office, The Academic escorts give you a College Cente1·., either by special look at your locations- person, or tluough intra- . and you tnay earn university campus mail. Even if you can't d~gree cr~dit if you wish on make Mondaymeetingsyoucan many tours~ still be active in Newman by For y()u,r free schedule of participatirig in .one or more of ·. tours, call (408) 277-3781 or the Newman spo{lsored ac- write: Travel Programs, San tivities. Jose StateUniversity,San Jose, CA 95192..0135 .. Eucharistic Ministers Letters have been sent to for- mer Eucharistic Ministers. Any Union student who wishes to become a Eucltaristic Minister please contact Sr. Joan (370- 6087) or at Religious Programs CC 404B. The Film Committee Presents: EucharisU«! Ministers Workshop -Thllrsday, October 1 from 7-9 p.m. in St. .John's School Library. Register with Sr. Joan wh() will give the Workshop. 9-24, 9-26, 9-27: The Mosquito Coast at7 pm, 9 pm and 11 pm. 9-29: The Man Who Fell to Earth at 7 pm, 9 pm and 11 pm. Movies will be shown in the College Center Auditorium. Newman O\emight Retreat - October 2nd and 3rd from 5 Tickets are available at the College Center Information Booth for $1. The ad floc committee considering the tenurability of Professor SE:laron B. Gmelch will welcome testimony, preferably written, from all members of the College community who may wish to comment on the quality of the candidate's teq_thing, scllolarship, and general service. Please contact the Chair of the -committee, Prof. Anton Warde, Department of Modern Languages, Humanities Building. An ad hor: committM to consider the tenurabUity of Prof. Steve Sargent of the History Department has been formed. Any person wishing to submit materia:! or testimony before this committee is encot:Jraged to do so by contacting Prof. Dwight Phaup of the Economjcs Department. An ad !roc committee has been formed to review the qualifications for tenurability of Professor George Gmelch of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty and students areinivited to voice their views. Comments should be submitted t() any member of the ad hoc committee. as soon as possible. Tile committee is made up ol Profs. J. Barbanel (Mathematics), R. Wells (History), H. Wllson (Arts), and C. Gati (Political Science). - - ~ Qjlestions1 Comments~ Concerns? I A representative from the student forum will :be Stop ~ . availab:le in Room 301 in the· college center 6y!. every Monday thru Thursday from 12 till 4. I : - ~ ~ ~ ~ ·1 I I 'l ' I ,I ;l 1\ •' ~ i I ,, ;i ' r ,I .)I I li

l ·j I 1 'I ' l 'l ; ~ i i Jl L jl ·I J ~~ ~ I ·' • li .. PERSONALS H~y .... Jreally did miss you this summer and it'sgreat.to spend time together again .. :C .. Our loft does not creakl .Rebecca; . · Have a great yfar and good luck. Loveya Jimmy ... BH ...... Thank yoll all f()r dinner, But how did you ever know it was my birthday'! Lisa 0 & l.Y.lellissa F'- Thanx for the door. To the best SDK buddie, th~:mk you for being th~r~ wb,en I need you. Happy holidays. Yo' Michele Isele-Are you reading this 'I Y 0\:1 gave me the wrong phone No. Please come up for homecomirlg. 'Fhe Skelll~r has beer. Read a bout it. OC-It's been real.lt was fun, it was great. Thank you all and long live the pevfected art ai .. folder stuJfing-~from · a graduating member .. Kristen.......Sorry f()rthe burn but it was a great party. You know who this is from. Meditation Study . Groug Every Wednesday At5pm ln1he College Center, Room 302 Everyon~ Is Welcome EspecjaJiy Beginners 1 CONCORDJBNSiS, Septe~nber 24, ]987 Page 11 ~~coMitv 0 +o . . ~~> 7·. a~ ... (:<. ~· ~:t ~~RAN\)~~ ''V.nion, 5! tJ3igger ancf rJ3etter V.'l Homecoming 'SWJ Promotional Day ,::tvl;:eeting __ Mond!iy,September 21>, 4:00pm in Room 403, Colleg~ Center Parade Committee Mee-ting .Wednesday,,. September 30 1 4:00 pm · in Room 203. College Center PROMOTIONAL DAY Thursday, October 1, 9:00am-4:00pm Scha:ffer Library Plala . Last General Stu<J,ent Homec:onting Meeting Monday, October 5, 4:0() pm in Room 409, College Center Pizza and. Soda a~ this m.eding! We hope to see .eve.ryone who attended the first meeting as ·well as any interest.ed newcomers. Come and meet new friends. lt's a great way to get .involved in what promis£s to be a ,~ousing weeken:.d. • f'HB £JI TES'l' 'l'BING INBBRBOBS aze always a 'I Electri~ City ·.···. CDIJJIC§ . \Schenectady's Oldest & largest Cornie Book Store\ 17·04 VanVranken Ave. • all 1 . 500 Sc.henectady · • · NEW IIOURS: Mon.-Fri. 11-6:30, Sat. 11.-5:30 ONLY THREE BlOCKS FROM CAMPUS Copyright 1987 Mar-vel Entertainment Group, Inc. All rights reserved. All Marvel titles, character names,and their likenesses are trademarks of the Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc. BLOOM ·coUNTY by Berke Breathed PROF. FRANK ClADO, AUTHOR OF ''THE PASSION OF INGMAR BERGMAN\ - ·' 71113 Cllf.IT ~e HflPP~N/Nf?,.. 11{15 CfW1 Be } HfiPfff.f{Jflf&,_ .' . CIIN'T, .. · eArn:. CAN'T., \ HaP/ I ... IN€W LIQIJICJ R&F~5HII1€Nr/ 1..: I- Hff.Y/ 71!£~e~ (fOMe/MPY/ · vi/MP!N' ,JeHOSAPHilT/ · WliO fiR£ YO!J ?:' H()H? WHA-·? 1MIMCK HO~ wme M~A/JOW/ SAY ... WOlJt./? YOU, · BY ClifWte, HAVE .fi COW t.eMONI/tJt:r '? I SOf?RY, NO. WOI!t.ll YOtJ, BV CliANCe, Hflve ;It 80 MIUION I ~------------~ 17<Y 1llfiT. tVCiT 77111€ 'fOil 1HINK YO(! &OJ\ PR0/3t.€M5, /Mfi&IN€ Me~T!N& JOHN CONNfiU.Y. I Ft!&t.. tWICH !%mJR. will speak on the films of lngmar Bergman at the Albany Public Library at 161 · Washington Ave. on Tuesday, Sept. 29 at 7:30pm. This event will b€ free and parking is available at the Elk St. Entrance. Yoga Class Every Tuesday 5-6:30 in the exercise room o.fthe gym. Be,ginners. ·'welcome

i . ,i ) I I· . Page 18 Come Monday Sept. 28 To discover more about student activities Make your college a \More perfect Union\ · ES GALORE!!!· · .. Rain date: Tuesday, Sept. 29 CONCORDIENSIS, September 24, 1'987 Beibreyou choose a long distance service, take a dose looK. . : . You may be thinking about choosing one of the newer carders over AT&T in order to save money Thirik again. . Since January 1987, AT&Ts rates have dropped more than 15% for direct~ dialed. out -of- . . state cal'ls. So theY're lower than you probably realize. For infor~ mation on specific rates,you can call us at 1 800 222-0300. And AT&T offers clear long distance connections, op~rator assistance, 24-hour customer · service, and immediate credit for wrong numbers. Plus,. you can use AT&T to call from .· anywhere to anywhere~all over the United States and to over 250 countries .. You might be surprised at how good a value AT&T really is. So before. you choose a long distance company, pick up the phone. ATs.T The right choice. Be Part of a New s·eginning Come join the team at the. New Dutch Hollow Restaurant • all shifts'\ • flexible hours • fringe benefits Apply in person Dutch Hollow Restaurant . . First Door of New Student Center Any .questi9ns, call Richard x6138

~ j ~ • CONCORD1.6NS1S, S~pt(!m.(Jer 24, 1987 Page 19 This :week has been .one of unrest in both the national and local football world. First off, the NFL. Strike'? No Strike? 1 Week? l Month'! 1 Year? Let's he honest, no one in America has the smallest clue as to how long this strike is .going to last, Everyone keeps saying how both sides are trying to avoid it and how no one wants it, but both .~ides are still standing their ground. No player is going to give up a chance to double or even triple his salary. In the event that management does play the remaining games With (excuse the term) ''scrubs\ will anyone watch these games. Personally, I'd rather sit and watch the turf grow. I'd also like. to see if Freeman MeN eil · · .sticksto his word. Earlier in the seasoi1 he pUblicly stated that if the NFL players did strike he would not participate. If in fact he does not strike this week and the season does eventually resume I can't possibly see how \ Not In the 'Box Score by Mark Zimm·erman his linemen Who fought so .hard for free .agency are going to see it in their hearts to block for him. On the positive side of the strike., if the season was over for good, the Giants wouldn't be able to go 0-16 .• In regard to the season so far, the Raiders are .surprising. They have no QB and. they are stiU 2-o with the ' No player is gei.ng to give up a chance to double or even triple his salary. fewest points ·all() wed. Both the Giants and Broncos are the biggest surprises. · The Giants for · obvious reas()ns and the Broncos are quite wishy washy. They crushed Seattle in Week One and then followed that by letting Green Bay tie them: Regarding Vinny Testaverde, he has only played aboqt two minutes this season. When De:Serg got rougned up versus the B~ars, Vinny went in. He was fairly ordinary bllt did shoW the power of his arm and his mobility. On the horne front, Union College's own Dutchmen are off to an 0-2 start. This past weekend they lost to Rochester in a game th:at they were favored to win and lost t() F&M the prev.ious week in the final moments, The defense didn't seem to play weU and tile .of- fense seemed a bit frustrated. The special. teams were the only bright spot of the Rochester game with the excepti()n of a returned kick .for a touclldown. This weeliend's game versus - He bart is amust win: They need to Win this to get back on track 1 If they do lose it it will be a lCJng season for everyone. The Jayvee team starts its season this coming Monday night against Albany State. Hopefully, they'll get off to a good start. ·With. a ,Pe:rsp·ective ·On Sports A n·drew Mille'r Baseball and ·footbiill our national pastinle and llational obsession. Today baseb.aU and football are a natiorual big business. There is no esc-aping this fact anymore. In :tine past ten years, the sports bousiness has exploded in ·ever:y con- ceivable direction. The con- tracts, deals, endorsemeiJts·, and television revenue:s: 'llave become too complex for the abserver to grasp, amd the player agents, ar.bitratim and pay scale-retirement benefits have become too sophisticated for the owners' pocketbot)oks. to ·endure. Now the big business ·o:f S()(lriS entertainment has reac:!l'led a most turbulent and t:t:()ubled time. A decision handed down this Monday by Major League Baseball collusion arbitrator _ Thomas T. Roberts fCJWid the baseball owners guilty ot acting- in collusion regarding free agency iollowing thee 1985 season. The ruling stat~Cd that to do with our weekly Stmday vigil called football? Unfor- tunately a lot. Free agency is exactly the sticking point that has brought upon the second strike in professional football since 1982, Here's how the battle lines have been drawn over free agency. Players. Uni()fi: The union wants all players to be free to move about after four years of service in tile NFL. If less than four years service then the player's former team has first refusal rights with no compensation. Tile Owners: The owners want to keep first refusal rights on all players, but to liberalize compensation from the new club. Only after a player's contract eJCpires, and if two sides can't agree, a player can look to another team and if he signs with them the old club has to be compensated. A Rookie's , Shot at the .Hall of Fame' · the owners violated the 1976 collective barga..ining agreement on free agenC)y, The suit was brought to thE ar- bitrator by the Major League Players Association after an off-season in '85 that saw With Roberts' free agency ruling now in the books and '85 baseball free agents awaiting a damage rliling, don't hold your breath fCJr a short football walkout. Roberts' ruling is fuel for the fire .fCJr ·player representative Gene Upshaw. If free agency goes tl!rough, the players will have swung the pendulwn of control away from the owners. The entire college draft would be seemed useless, for players would automatically become free agents and would be able to negotiate with any team they wished, i.e., Brian Bosworth. If the owners can kill the free agency debate they will be again firmly entrenched in the driver's seat. By DAVE GULLIVER I was startled when I heard my name annoJ.lilced. It was the realization of every guy's boyQood dream. I was going to bat against one of the best, an idol, a future HaU·of Farner, Tom Seaver. Seaver had been the guest speaker at the opening of the new exhibit at the musewn, and to lure the press to tqe exhibit, the museum directors an- nounced that, after the reception, in a nearby .park, random . reporters would get a chance tQ bat against No.' 41, Tom Seaver. To my ama2;em~nt, they called my name. I stepped up to the table and a nice lady handed me· a form to sign, certifying that I wouldn't sue the museum if Seaver injured or killed me with a \pitch. Before we got to the park, a lot of reporters were wondering if we'd see the hard stuff. I guessed that was the answer. I was right. I wasn't the first to hit; I stood and watched the first victims hit. An AP phdtographer was first; after two swings and· misses he dribbled a grounder to short. Seaver didn't like that. Bruce • Chadwick, a Daily News sportswriter, was next and he was shown no mercy. A fastball, a miss. Chadwick got ready and swung early at the next fastball- -but· it wasn't a fastball. He hearly knocked himself down as the curveball clrj:fted in. There was no way he could touch· the last fastball. So I stepped up. Coat and tie off; shirtsleeves rolled up. I had come to play. So hadSeaver. He had traded his irrlmaculate suit for well-worn sweats: Now he looked right. I wondered if he had remembered my obnoxious questions .at lunch. He had. Seaver's always had a deceptively slow motion. He rocked back, stretched forward, arm came around, trademark knee-scuff on the mound. I'm not sure if I saw the knee-scuff ... I was too busy folloVI(ing the ball. I saw it in his hand, I saw it release. Hisssssthe ball went by and I caught it for an eyeblink as it went under my late swing. \Strike one,\ said the umpire. They even hired an ump for thiS. Frantfcally I tried to pull my head together. Where did it go? It looked so slow at first (before he let go, I .guess(. Waht next? Concentrate. No problem. -·- AntieJpating a fastball,~ Gulliver swings ... Didn't have to think too hard ·about the next one. I could tell from the moment he let go it would be off. llisssss. It was high and tight, actually liver my head. \Ball .one/' He's a little rusty, I figur:ed, he hasn't thrown ina whilE. Great, I'm up against a guy who's throwing ,about 80 mph who has11't pit- ched in months. OK, don't gP-t rattles. I saw what he did to \Chadwic~; this one's the curve. You krww you can't hi~ it, just let him toss it; it'll miss the strike Z()ne. Bo Seaver would up and let go, I was right, it was much ~lower, any second n!)w it '11 break, any second ... It sailed in, straight as an an·ow, right into the catcher's mitt. No hiss that time- it was slow and silent. \Strike two.\ I hadn't even lifted my bat off my shoulder. And Seaver called down to· me, like any kid ()ll the mound pitching, \Watsa matta with that one'?'~ Feeling really stupid, I replied meekly: \I couldn~t .see it very well.\ I didn't think he had heard when he shouted back, \Well get a good look at this one!\ ·He know, I knew, everyone· knew what was coining. What goes through vvur mind? You · possiblythe best free agent crop in history virtually ignor~Cd. The list of those forgotten ifew in- cludes E;irk Gibson, the N'iekro brothers, and Donnie M:oCJre. \Nothing in the history- ()f free agency explained the sudden and abrupt terminatiCJn of all efforts to secure the services CJf free agents from other l()lllbs,\ stated Roberts in his earliy week decision. The 1976 free .agency system in major Jeague baseball was the first of its kind in the history of pro sports. _Now the owners have been fo1.1nd · guilty of conspiring togeciller to · testrict the free agent movement. This in turn W()uld act as a ceiling cap in :forcing the free agents to return to their original club withollt an exaggerated contract inciease. The- owners call this \fiscal restraint.\ . So what does this rulirug have know you're o11tgwmed and overpowered, but it's also just for fun. It doesn't matter: No expectations of any resuilts. But deep inside, there's that urge to compete, to strive, t() do. your best. So you squint, grip the bat tighter, swing with eve:rything you have ... HisssssSMACK. But n()H()cky So, Mr. Roberts, your \timely\ decision on t)Je state of sports entertainment has done more to disrupt our Sundays than a network blackout. And for those of you who think the owners can give a little on free agency and still come o11t unscathed should take management's official position into account, \maaagement will never yield on free agency, and points to its disruptive influence on baseball.\ story here. The smack was the sound of an extra-fast pitch slapping into mitt leather. I waved at it too late, or something. How would I know? I didn't even see it. As I walked away humbled, the crowd applauded for me Bnd then I was happy. I think everyone has that same dream . ~ ~ :. c~ ~ ... as Seaver starts file Wind-up. :::: (1) c ._ :J (.') <ll .... tU ~ >. .c Cll 0 5 c· 0. -· ....

