CXVII, No. 2 Profe~s()~ Underwood, ft:Jture Dean of Faculty, discuss~s hts g_oals m Ius new post. .. Underwood Appointed .. Dean. of Faculty Deems Quality of Faculty Crucial General Educ~tion a- Priority By FIONA SHUKRI This January, Professor James Underwood of the Political Science Department Will begin .his duties as Dean of Faculty. Although the position's primary responsibilities focus on curriculum and faculty matters, these matters ultimately influence students. Thus, Underwood should play a decisive . role in affecting student's future academic and campus activities. · Dean of Faculty is a new position which has been created in order 'to develop a better distribution of responsibilities between the Vice--president of Academic Affairs, Thomas D'Andrea, Associate Dean of Faculty Terry Weiner, Associate Dean of l:lndergraduate Studies William Daniels, and Jim Underwood. Underwood outlined some is~ue~ he feels deserve top pnor1ty when he takes his new ~ole as dEan. First among them IS the refinement and im- plementat-ion of the General Educati()n Curriculum as soon as it is. feasible to do so. 'Underw<Jod is current head of the General -Education Board. \The plan as passed will probablynot be implemented,\ states U11derwood, adding that . details. of the plan are not as import~t as its internal con- sistency. -Most fikely, the existing plan will be tbe starting point from which alterations and ame~clments will develop. He hopes tllat all the specifics . · will be resolved by January.· · General Educaticn will likely require a ''phasing in\ process · which sllollld begin, by the . latest, in SEptember of 1989. One of his foremost concerns is r~cruiting the best faculty possible. He states that he is not referring to simply ''buying \The celllege must find .. a way r()r students to mal{e the most of U . \ mon .... professors,~· but rather making Union m()re attractive to possible applicants. \We are attractivE and therefore competitive,\ states Under- wood. He hopes to conduct national searches of the best graduate institutions in the country. Also important is \the support for existing faculty developrne11t,''. with the hopes of continuous improvement of their teaclli:ng ability. , He men'ticms the continuance of the rEcently undertaken effor~ to upgrade faculty salaries. '.fuese upgrades would generally start With assistant professors, with the immediate effect of · ilelping draw more applicants. · · · His next !)riority is developing · the \intellectual and cultural'' · life of the (!Ollege. · Underwood ~ates that, \The college must fmd ways for students to make . the most {)If Union as a learning e:lCPerience,outside class as well as in.\ Underwo<1d ~lso hopes to make any Improvements necessary on the ''.physical academic environment. ' 1 \We need to look at our programs and determine to what degree we have the proper physical accomodati()ns.\ He gave such . continued on page. 2 ' .. Gel Time is 'Upon Us Despite S.ome Difficulties, Most Are 'Pleased . By NICK PICCIRILLO One more of the many changes that greeted us on our return to Union was Gel Time. going into effect. The prospect of Gel ';fime was heavily · debated m past years, but • d~spite being met with sharp disapproval among students, adininistraters went ahead with the changes in scheduling . .After several years of investigation~ proposals from the individual departments to the Registrar on how they would like their schedules to appear under Gel Time were found to be ideal. As· a result, we now find ourselves in a two-year trial period, at the end of which a final decision about the future of Gel Time will be reached . Dean Wolf from the Registrar's Office likes what he 1 S seeing in the new scheduling system, which he stated is used by 90-95 percent of all W!.iversities. \A. primary advantage is the elimination of partial overlapping of courses resulting in mpre options for students,\ said Wolf. \Specific times during the d~y are now allocated to lecture time. There are eight such time slots, five on Monday, Wednesday, Friday and three on Tuesday, Thur- sday. The total nwnber of courses is distributed equally into these time slots, which makes Ge.l Time work, in a sense.' Students must choose · three courses from the eight time slots. Before Gel Time, · withoUt the benefits of definitive · ti.nle slots, overlaps of ten minutes were common.\ Wolf . · added, \Registration has never , run smoother in my time at . Unicn. Almost everyone, in· eluding freshmen, received what they wanted.\ . would have to be literatul.'\e · courses scheduled on Tuesdays • and Thursdays. In .introduct()ry courses, the addition of drill :sessions was necessary beca1.1se : the need to practice tile : language is felt: The students' views confirrn the positive views of Wolf md · McDermott. Of twenty students · polled from all majors, ten ' students went from a negative Qpinion of Gel Time to a positive opinion after its enactmen:t. ·, Only seven students remai11ed • opposed to it. Of twe!lty, . fourteen felt they were no'V{ better, or equally well prepared for classes and fourteen also stated they seemed to have more free time as a result of this change. Of those who still disfavor Gel Time, many are engineering students. With about 40 perce11t of courses now offered in th-E · afternoon, the once ofte11 suitable afternoon lab is ll>() longer that 'suitl:i!J.le. Engineering students are spending more afternoons i11 · elasses than ever, and w:itll many courses requiring lalls,. limitations are imposed 011 selection. \We've encouraged Tuesday or Thursd.ay scheduling of labs, when fewer of the eight time slots would be effected,\ said Wolf. \Tlle individual departments in Engineering must cooper<tte with one another in schedulrng to avoid conflicts between courses and labs.\ If any departments were disadvantaged by Gel Time, one could speculate that The · Modern Languages wculd be one. ''There are more virtues than shortcomings in Gel Time, even though it's bad for Modern Languages,\ acknowledged Professor McDermott, Chairperson of the department. McDermott added that she's heard no complaints from students in the depart- . ment and they remain awake . and even lively throughout the lecture. McDermctt also in· dicated that one major concern Wolf suggested that althou!lb the students generally have obtained more flexibility witl:l Gel Time, the program itself is flexible to a certain point. \We .are tight for classrooms. How it operates now is feasible, :l>ut even just a few requested shifts ill scheduling wouldn't be ac- commmidable. If Gel Time is tD continue the individttal departments must -adhere 1() ' their proposals .from bef()re, even if they determine tlut · changes within their depart- ment in scheduling are preferable. The number of · classes offered in each time slot must achieve a balance with .t:l!e others.\ Asked to sum up his impressions, Wolf responded, ''It certainly hasn't made things worse, and may, in fact, ha'Ve led to improvements. After t'iVo years we will see.\ October 1987 Dean of Students, Joseph · Mammola College Addresses Acquaintance Rape Issue By R. REED WHIDDEN Two incidents that occurred last winter and spring terms caused the College to address a scary issue •. rape. When one thinks of rape one thinks of a stranger jumping out of the bushes late at night. However the rape this campus must deai with n?w is acquaintance rape. That Is when the 1·apist is someone the victim !mows: Colleges and 1miversities across the country have always been concerned with acquaintance rape, but because most in- cidents are not reported it is hard for them to !mow how much attention thi~ subject needs. Union has, of late been . ' paymg particular attention to acquaintance rape. It is hitting home now because of the two incidents that allegedly oc- curred last year. Reportedly, two separate cases involving fraternities on campus have come to ligbt. In the first case no fraternity members were involved, but the incident oc- curred in the house. Disciplinary action was taken against them because it did happen in the house and because there was a party where both the victim and the offenders (there being four cff them), both being underaged, were served beer. In the second case, four members of the frat- ernity were accused. In both situations, however, alcoh.Jl was involved, in fact, abused. · According the law, alcohol IS not an excuse to sexually abuse someone. Dean of Students Joseph Mammola states that: \alcohol abuse on the part of both men and women is potentially the greatest single factor that can lead to this kind of an incident. It is important for both men and women to be responsible With alcohol.' The Administration has tried to make new students aware by involving information on the college's social life and acquaintance rape in their orientation. ·rh !'re are scheduled Resident Advisor discussions that all freshmen are asked to attend. This year was the first annual discussion with Or. Andrea Parrot, a lecturer in human service Fun and games witll physics at the activities expo . · studies at Cornell University, on . acquaintance rape. The Continued on page 4

Page 2 Maintenance Prepares for Increase of Work· Load fnvests In New Equipment :ByVlRGINIEMELIO raking care of Union's grounds, dormitories, and' btuildings for administrative a.nd student use is not a fWl job. S.illceJanuary,Maintenance has !tad to deal with 4.~50 Work orders. Does this figure seem a.ccurate? Well, it isn't. 'Many ' nnc.:re requests are called in, or c-orne from rniiintenance I' eq11est sheets put ~p on each <lormitory floor. >In additian, with the opening Otf the College Center, Main- t.enance has an extra building, a lle'W set of grounds, and rnany ·V!V()rk orders to come. Fur- \ hermore, the increasing amomt of roads closing com- plicates transportation around campus with its dead ends. With :a S1Jpposedly long and cold IWlnter coming llP~ more dif- Eieulties will arise. Eow does Maintenance deal with these problems, without a CONCORDlENSIS, October I, 1987 The purchase of new automobiles and equipment has been helpful to maintenance ar:ld securit¥. great increase in staff'? Besides buying better tools to work with · the more modern equipment installed arotmd campus, it has been purchasing more trucks on ' ' ... with the opening of the College Center; maintenance has an extra building, a new set of grounds, and many work orders ta come. a regular basis. Thou~h the older trucks still function, Maintenance realized that they had to replace the ones dating back to tne seventies (even some from 1953, 58, and 62} in order to save money. They invested in the blue pickup trucks seen throug);lout the campus, and one test vehicle, the Hijet. The Hijet is a mix between a pickup truck and a golf cart intended for in- tercampus use only, with maximum speed appmximately twenty miles per hour. Consequently, Maintenance feels that it is adequately equipped. It has matte a wise investment, and efficiency has increased. The new trucks look more professional, thus in- creasing moral and and pride in the work being done. For- tunately, this allol!atio\} of trucks alleviated the problem of resorting to shopping carts to transport equipment down campus, as they sometimes did in the seventies. ·Course Overenrollment Causes Textbook Shortages By MELISSA LEVINE As the third week of classes began a number of students · were still waiting for the arrival of their bo(}ks in the boak store. This has heen a consistent problem at Union in recent years, but people agree that the· · ordering this fall was ex .. ceptionally ·inadequate.· Being ,forced to begin classes · without books can cause con- • · siderable problems for students. Missing the ·reading assignments for the first couple . of weekscan cause a student to . fall behind for quite a while, and · therefore be unable to follow in class discussion. One . sophoiilore's. soc_iology and psy~hology books arrived at the , . end of the :Second week, She is now behind about fifty pages of reading in each class. . Sharing books is a possibility, . but one n1ust balance his or her reading around someone else's schedule, which can be difficult. Furthenn()re, trekking back and fortll to the book store to check whether the books have arrived. can be an in- convenience to busy students. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be any easy solutions to this problem. According to Eli Majlaton, manager of the book store, the system for ordering books.~Js baSed ~n a comparison of the This prediction (of books to order) is obviously unrelaible, . because one can only assume what classes freshmen will take • · preregistration figures and the past enrollment history. Both of these figures are put into ,a computer, which calculates the percentage of books t!Iat should · be sold. This prediction is ob- viously unreliable, especially . during fall term,_ because one can only assume what classes the freshmen will take. Mr. Majlaton is new to the Union College Book Storej and he is only serving in interim. continued on page 4 ~e German. Club Is Sponsoring An Underwood Asks College to Consider \Core Academic Enterprise\ All invited toel'\ioy an evening of German Festivi~es, food and drink. C:o11tinued from page 1 examples as determining ·~.vhetber Classrooms we~:e too !Warm, or not warm enough, and rnaking the library a more co-mfortable, convenient and generally more attractive place to study. Another matter of top con- sideration is bringing the :faculty togetlteJ: across the disciplines as ha~ been done moJ:e effectively in the past. It bas been suggested, for eJO:ample, that one day a week the faculty eat together in Hale. i()ne step that has already been taken in this direction is the new lJnion Review of :&ooks. It we could get the best curriculum possible, .a11.d still fail to open people's eyes in the way that their eyes ought to be ()pened in college.\ Finally, Underwo9d spoke about his uncertainty that the freshman year at Union is not designed so as to be as beneficial and inelusi ve as it could be. Underwo()d feels that the college should do a more thorough job of advising fresh- men before they even arrive. He also queried whether the first year opens up to new students all the possibilities offered at Union. Underwood feels that Union must identify its needs to fulfill its academic purpose, and try to satisfy those needs. \At this point in our history we need to look at the core academic en- terprise.\ He states that . he means \academic\ in the broadest sense of the term. \We could get the best curriculum possible, and still fail to open people's eyes in the way that their eyes ought to be opened in college.\ The new College Center is a step in the right direction, Underwood believes. Although it is used for entertainment, it serves both academic and cultural purposes.' For exam- ple, facilities for speakers, films, and meetings. \We are a small enough college to· not have to rely soley on an- noWlcements.\ He sees Union's intimate size as an opportWlity for faculty to reach out to students. He also hopes to en- courage existing organizations · and societies to take a broader · view of their responsibilities. Underwood states that he is not sure the college has done a good job in ... encouraging students to take advantage of the Capital District. ''Why not . pretend we are in the middle of nowhere and try to take ad- vantage of everything?\ Subsidized tickets to Proctor's Theater is one such en- couragement, but there is a definite lack of p11blicized in- . formation of much else the area . has to offer. Some ideas Underwood has are: ]Jroviding transportation to varl()US points of cultural interest, such as the Capital District Repertory Theater, and vari()US ticket subsidies. Last year, the college developed the office of Associate Dean of Long-Range Planning to deal specifically with long-term . physical and scheduling needs. This year, it seems that the CoUege recognized the benefits of long- term planning for less concrete matters. The new office of Dean of Faculty should be a position influencing many aspects of Union. WHERE: College Center, Room 302 WHEN: Tues., Octobe1 .. 6, 1987 . TIME: S:oo··pM·, . ' ' GREEK CALENDAR sponsored by Gamma Phi ·Beta ' ' Benefits Cerebral Palsy $5,.00 You Can Buy Yours from any Phi Gamma Beta SPEAKERS .FORUM PRESENTS Emo Phillips with Livingsto-n Taylor~ Join us for a nlg.~t of comic.entertainm.ent . -~. '\ /- ., . ·· ·Ho~ecomiug '\ ·Fri:d'ay, ,,. .· ' ' ' .'· ·_:,.. _,,,..,_, '. .. Septe~ber 9th· ·8 pm Tickets on Sale· ·in Carnegie Box Office. $3 with I.D. t.'··,

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Octa·ber 1, 1987 Maintenance Prepares for Increase of Work· Load Invests In New Equip1nent ·Course Overenrollment Causes Textbook Shortages By MELLSSA LEVINE As the third week of classes began a number of students were still waiting for the arrival of their books in the book store. convenience to busy students. Unfortunately, there does not seem to be any easy solutions to this problem. According to Eli Majlaton, manager of the book store, the system for ordering books is based on a comparison of the By VIRGIN IE MELlO Taking care of Union's grounds, dormitories, and buildings for administrative and student use is not a fun job. Since January, Maintenance has had to deal with 4,550 work orders. Does this figure seem accurate? Well, it isn't. Many more requests are called in, or come from maintenance request sheets put up on each dormitory floor. The purchase of new automobiles and equipment has been helpful to maintenance and security_ ' This has been a consistent problem at Union in recent years, but pe()ple agree that the· ordering this fall was ex- ceptionally illadequate.- Being forced to begin classes without books can cause con- siderable problems for students. Missing the reading assignments for the first couple of weeks can cause a student to fall behi.Fld for quite a while, and therefore be unable to follow in class discussion. One sophomore's sociology and psychology b()oks arrived at th.e end of tile second week. She is now behind about fifty pages of reading in each class. This prediction (of books to order) is obviously unrelaible, because one can only assume what classes freshmen will take. In addition, with the opening of the College Center, Main- tenance has an extra building, a new set of grounds, and many work orders to come. Fur- thermore, the increasing amount of roads closing com- plicates transportation around campus with its dead ends. With a supposedly long and cold winter coming up, more dif- ficulties will arise. How does Maintenance deal with these problems without a great increase in staff? Besides buying better tools to work with the more modern equipment installed anmnd campus, it has been purchasing more trucks on ... with the opening of the College Center, maintenance has an extra building, a new set of .grounds, and many work orders to come. a regular basis. Though the older trucks still function, Maintenance realized that they had to replace the ones dating back to the seventies (even some from 1953, 58, and 62) in order to save mt>ney. They in\Vested in the blue pickup tr11cks seen throughtJut the campus, and one test vehicle, the Hi jet. The Hi jet is a mix between a pickup truck and a golf cart intended for in- tercampus use only, with . ma~imum speed apprommately twenty miles per hour. Consequently, Maintenance feels that it is adequately equipped. It has made a wise in vestment, and efficiency has in creased. The new trucks look more professional, thus in- creasing moral and and pride in the work being done. For- tun at ely, this allocation of trucks alleviated the problem of resorting to shopping carts to transport equipment down campus, as they sometimes did in the seventies. Sharing bo()ks is a possibility, but one must balance his or her reading around someone else's schedule, which can be difficult. Furthermore. trekking back and forth t{)> the book store to check whether the books have arrived can be an in- preregistration figures and the past enrollment history. Both of these figures are put into a computer, which calculates the percentage of books that should be sold. This prediction is ob- viously unreliable, especially during fall term, because one can only assume what classes the freshmen will take. Mr. Majlaton is new to the Union College Book Store, and he is only serving in interim. Continued on page 4 The German Club Is Sponsoring An Underwood Asks College to Consider \Core Academic Enterprise\ All invited to enjoy an evening of German Festivities, food and drink. Continued frorn page ·1 examples as determining whether classr()oms were too warm, or not warm enough, and making the library a more comfortable, convenient and generally more attractive place to study. Another matter of top con- sideration is bringing the fac11lt y tog etl1er across the disciplines as has been done more effectively in the past. It has been suggested, for example, that ()ne day a week the faculty eat together in Hale. One step that has already been taken in this direction is the new Union Review of Books. ftwe could get the best curriculum possible, and still fail to open people's eyes in the way that their eyes ought to be opened in college.\ Finally, Underwood spoke alxlut his uncertainty that the freshman year at Union is not designed so as to be as beneficial and inclusive as it could be. Underwood feels that the college should do a more thorough job of advising fresh- men before they even arrive. He also queried whether the first year opens ap to new students all the possibilities offered at Union. Underwood feels that Union must identify its needs to fulfill its academic purpose, and try to satisfy those needs. \At this point in our history we need to look at the core academic en- terprise!' He states that he means \academic\ in the broadest sense of the term. \We could get the best curriculum possible, and still fail to open people's eyes in the way that their eyes ought to be opened in college.'\ The new College Center is a step in the right direction, Underwood believes. Although it is used for entertainment, it serves both academic and cultural purposes.- For exam- ple, facilities for speakers, films, and meetings. \We are a small enough college to not have to rely soley on an- nouncements.\ He sees Union's intimate size as an opportunity for faculty to reach out to students. He also hopes to en- courage existing organizations and societies to take a broader view of their responsibilities. Underwood states that he is not sure the college has done a good job in . encouraging students to take advantage of This Weel\:'s Events:. Thlil'tSliay; Octl)bet 1 Ptom<>ti.onal Day. #,.>~vuuy Bloodmobile, Old Friday, October 2 . ' U;.()(}ptn·S;OOpm Bloodmt)biltt. Old Chapel l2~00'pm Lunchtlrne Sitting Meditation. CC 3()2 7, \9 llpm F.ihn: \Sid and Nancy;\ CC Ami Saturday. Oct~tber 3 1,.9, Hpm Film: ~Sid and Nancy.\ CC Aud s~nda.y; Octoil~r 4 1, 9, llpm f'dm: \Sid and Nancy \CC Aud. tlu Capital District. \Why not pretend we are in the middle of nowhere and try to take ad- v~ntage of e\Verything?\ S11bsidized tickets to Proctor's Theater is one such en- coaragement, but there is a dc;fi.n.ite lack of publicized in- formation of much else the area h«~s to offer. Some ideas Underwood has are: providing transportation to vari()US points of cultural interest, sllCh as the Capital District REpertory Theater, and various ticket s11bsidies. Last year, the college developed the office of A.sst>ciate Dean of Lo11g-Range Planning to deall. specifically with long-term . physical and s<heduling needs. This year, it seems that the College recognized the benefits of long- tErTII planning for less concrete rnatters. The new office of Dean ()f Faculty should be a position rnfluencing man:y aspects of Union. WHERE: College Center, Room 302 WHEN: Tues., October 6, 1987 TIME: 8:00 PM GREEK CALENDAR sponsored by Gamma Phi Beta Benefits Cerebral Palsy $5,.00 You Can Buy Yours from any Phi Gamma Beta . SPEAKERS FORUM PRESENTS Emo Phillips with Livingston Taylor Join us for a night of comic entertainment Ho-mecoming Friday, September 9th 8 pm Tickets on Sale in Carnegie Box Office. $3 with I.D. I ,., I \ I 'i ' I i d i I '• I

CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 Page 3 Union's Policy on Greek Socials Remains the Satne, New De·an Says By MELISSA STEWART The College's recently adopted stricter stance on campus Greek organizations has coincided with the arrival of a · new Assistant Dean of Students. Many. students are seemingly attributing the crackdown to him. Dean Alford,. however, discredits such allegations. about how he seernsto be taking · a stricter attitude and harsher act ions than what has • previausly be.en the norm. Rumors have circulated about fraternity .probations and fines . imposed by Mford. These rUIIlors are simply not true, according to Marty ·Cepkauskas,. president of the · · IFC. He states: ''Right now it is too early to telll!ow strict he'll be; but so far ther.e haven't been Last June, former Assistant aiJy problems.\ Presently only Dean of'Students Robert Massa tVio houses are on social left Union College to accept a pr()bation for offenses com- must return a third time. At the beginning of the 1986-87 school · year, Dean Massa raised the initial fine to one hundred dollars and the second to two hundred dollars. Supposedly these higher fines Were in effect througnout all of. last year. Dean Alford played no role in the increase. It seems that many students have unfairly accused Dean Alford of establishing stricter policies when, in actuality, he is presently followingthesame system used by his predecessor. 1 . 1. V.P. Maranville: \We're going to insure a healthy Union College.\ position at Trinity College ·in mitte.d last year and-so far not a . Texas. After interviewing single house has .been fined this several applicants, a contrnittee year. Cepkauskas says: ''There consisting of both students and have been parties, · but ·they faculty sele-Cted. Frederick w:e:re an registered and Alford to replace .hhn. , ·everything went fine.'' He One of tlie many respon- added, \I enjCly working with sibilities his job entails is Dean Alford. He is enthusiastic • dealing with the college's Greek and wants to hElp make Union's College Will Renov?te Library, Nott Memorial organizations through the Inter- fraiernities strong.'' Fratetnity,Ceuncil (1FC). Since When asked i11 an interview these organizations are about policy changes Alford generally considered to be the said, \Right now I am just center of Union's social life., f<!llowing policies Dean Massa many students are un- · set up while he was here.\ Dean derstandably concerned about • Mford did admit that there is the possibility .of changes. Dean one .possible f!OUI'ce of .confusion Alford is aware of the hn- ·. rEgarding the finillg system. It - port!lnce of sororities and stems from a misprint in the fraternities and hopes to in- U87..S8 Student Handbook which crease their strength by hn· states that after I'eceiving one proving relations with faculty. warning, if an mregistered or He also hopes to get these ovErcrowded party is not ended organizations involved in more or controlled within a long-term community service r-easonable period of time, a $50 projects. • fille will be assessed. It also In stead of these ideas, it states that a second fine of $100 seems that students are talking · may be assessed if secw·ity WRITE FOR NEWS Call Becky x4416 or Fiona x:4l66 CAL20NES LASAGNA BROCCOLI LASAGNA By DEBRA B, HONIG The layout of Schaffer Library and the condition of the Nott Memorial are among the issues the administration plans to studythis year. Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea has submitted a draft of the proposed library expansion to President John Morris, which also contains recommendations of pe()ple to serve on a planning committee. A total of 12 libraria11s,. faculty members, students, administrators, and staff members will be on the committee. Aftertlle committee draws up its goals, an architect will analyze structural problems in the library, and a consultant will help suggest technological HOT SANDWICHE;:S BROCCOLI PIZZA STUFFED SHELLS VOTED ONE OF THE AREA'S TOP TEN P·IZZERIAS FOR 1987 (WGY PIZZA POLL) ' FR-EE T-SHIRTS (With any purctiase over $10.00. Not valid with any other coupons!) WE DELIVER FREE 374-4332 extras the library could benefit . from. Dr. D'Andrea said that presumably, the extension of the library will be built where the tennis courts now stand. As Director of the library, Ann Seeman has pinpointed a number of specific goals based on the general observation that \We are short of stack space for books . and study space for students.\ She believes that the school should create a periodicals reading room that will feature current materials and an attractive appearance. In addition, -Ms. Seeman believes that there is a need f()r more than the 12 individual study rooms already in existence. These private rooms, she .said, should be accessible to _professors and seniors even when the library is closed. Another suggestion is to build a \classy showplace\ for special · · collections, rather than to keep the existing one in isolation on . the fourlh floor. Ms. Seeman also noted that the lack of a loading dock near the library . presents an inconvenience to shippers. Moreover, Ms. Seeman believes that builders should not just \stick on\ an additional building but rather maintain a \unified concept\ for the project. Although the library adds some 9,000 volwnes per year to its collection, Ms. Seeman stressed the need for additional current books. She said that this would help keep the pace.of the ever changing curriculum, The renovation of the Nott Memorial is also part of the administration's long-term plan 'to ameliorate facilities. Although Jack Maranville, Vice President of Institutional . Planning, does not foresee any development on such a project in the next year or two, he does believe that \Everybody knows you've got to do something with the Nott.\ Most probably, the renovatioll will entail more than an im· provement of the external appearance. A committee will study how effectively the Nott serves its purpose as a theatre. Director Randi Goldstein and Drama. Professor Barry Smith could not be reached for comment on this issue. According to Leata Jackson of the Mountebanks, the basement of the Nott, which is now the bookstore, will be converted into .a ·practice room with soW1dproof cubicals. Dr. Maranville pointed out that the recently completed . renovations of the student center and the alwnni gym also \emerged out of high quality needs.\ The c<Jst of such projects, he explained, does not burden a specific generation of students since a percent of the college's revenue goes into a capital projects account each year. However, Dr. D'Andrea commented that the college also has to find outside support to fund the projects. By looking at the develop- ment of the next three to seven years, Dr. Maranville can figure out what issues must be attended to. As the Union College Mission Statement , says, the Office of the \Chairman of tbe Board of Trustees and the Planning and Priorities Committee generate such ideas so that Union can \continue to be a selective, high quality, residential undergraduate college.'' Dr. Maranville said, \It's a process where we're goillg to insure a healthy Union College, and not take things for granted.\ Another area Dr. Maranville will study is that of Residence Life. He will try to determine how successfully Union is avoiding \isolation from the community.\ Moreover, Dr. Maranville will study the co-educational nature of the sch()ol, which has only a 17-year history of ac- cepting women. He will also continue to analyze how demographics affect the school's enrollment. He said, \At Union, we may face a minor decline in enrollment due to the mrmber of high school graduates that represent the diversity and quality of the student body we want to maintain, but it won's be a problem.\ Since Union is primarily an undergraduate institution, Dr. Maranville will look at the relationship between the W1- dergraduate and graduate programs, credit and non-credit courses, and full and part-time students. Union's Mission· Statement reads, \ ... graduate education will continue to be a part of Union College, but such programs will be monitored cat·efully so as t() avoid un- wanted distortions.\ Dr. Maranville added that although he had . worked alongside President Morris in making long-tenn plans for quite some time, a separate office for such planning became offidal just last year. He said, \We are responsible. to keep the college aware of the best possible options for issues that emerge, and we try to do that as systematically as possible.\ · GIVE BLOOD THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCTOBER lST AND 2ND. RED CROSS WILL BE IN OLD CHAPEL FROM ll AM - 5 PM

' f ·' .I ,, ;\ i I i i I .; i. •, I CONCORDIENSIS, October I, 1987 Page 3 Union's Policy on Greek Socials Remains the Same, New Dean Says By MELISSA STEWART The College's recently adopted stricter stance on campus Greek organizations has coincided with the arrival of a new Assistant Dean of Students. Many students are seemingly attributing the crackdown to him. Dean Alford, however, discredits such allegations. about how he seerns to be taking must return a third time. At the beginning of the 1986-87 school year, Dean Massa raised the initial fine to one hundred dollars and the second to two hundred dollars. Supposedly these higher fines were in effect throughout all of last year. Dean Alford played no role in the increase. It seems that many students have unfairly accused Dean Alford of est a blislling stricter policies when,tn actuality, he is presently following the same system used by his predecessor. V.P. Maranville: \We're going to insure a healthy Union College.\ Last June, former Assistant Dean of Students Robert Massa left Union College to accept a position at Trinity College in Texas. After interviewing several applicants, a committee consisting of both students and faculty selected Frederick Alford to replace him. One of the many respon~ sibilities his job entails is dealing with the college's Greek organizations through the Inter- Fraternity Council ( IFC ). Since these organizations are generally considered to be the center of Union's social life, many students are un- derstandably concerned about the possibility of changes. Dean Alford is aware of the im- portance of sororities and fraternities and hopes to in- crease their strength by im· proving relations with faculty. He also hopes to get these organizations involved in more long-term community service projects. a stricter attitude and harsher actions than what has previously been the norm. Rumors have circulated about fraternity probations and fines imposed by Alford. These rumors are simply not true, according to Marty Cepkauskas, president of the IFC. He states: \Right now it is too early to tell how strict he'll be, but so far there haven't been any problems.\ Presently only two houses are on social probation for offenses com- mitted last year and so far not a single house has been fined this year. Cepkauskas says: \There have been parties, but they were all registered and everything went fine.\ He added, \I enjoy working with Dean Alford. He is enthusiastic \ and wants to help make Union's fraternities strong.\ College Will Renov~te Library, Nott Memorial In stead of these ideas, it seems that students are talking When asked in an interview about policy changes Alford said, \Right now I am just following policies Dean Massa set up while he was here.'' Dean Alford did admit that there is one possible source of confusion regarding the fining system. It stems from a misprint in the 1987..S8 Student Handbook which states that after receiving one warning, if an unregistered or overcrowded party is not ended or controlled within a reasonable period of time, a $50 fine will be assessed. It also states that a second fine of $100 may be assessed if security WRITE FOR NEWS Call Becky x4416 or Fiona x4166 CALZONES LASAGNA BROCCOLI LASAGNA C: ~ Q- W-..-..._ ~,L~,_: ~r=:lt;;;! By DEBRA B. HONIG The layout of Schaff€r Library and the condition of the Nott M~rnorial are among the issues the administration plans to stud:y this year. Vice President for Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea has submitted a draft of the proposed library expansion to President John Morris, which also contains recommendatiGns of people to serve on a planning committee. A total of 12 librarians, faculty members, students. administrators, and staff members will be on the committee. After the committee draws up its goals, an architect will analyze structural problems in the library, and a consultant will help suggest technological HOT SANDWICHES BROCCOLI PIZZA STUFFED SHELLS VOTED ONE OF THE AREA'S TOP TEN PIZZERIAS FOR 1987 (WGY PIZZA PCLL) FREE T-SHIRTS (With any purchase over $10.00. Not valid with any oiher coupons!) WE DELIVER FREE 374-4332 extras the library could benefit from. Dr. D'Andrea said that presumably, the extension of the library will be built where the tennis courts now stand. As Director of the library, Ann Seeman has pinpointed a number of specific goals based on the general observation that \We are short of stack space for books and study space for students.\ She believes that the school should create a periodicals reading room that will feature current materials and an attractive appearance. In addition, Ms. Seeman believes that there is a need for more than the 12 individual study rooms already in existence. These private rooms, she said, should be acce~sible to professors and seniors t>ven when the library is closed. Another suggestion is to build a \classy showplace\ for special collections, rather than to keep the existing one in isolation on the fourth floor. Ms. Seeman also noted that the lack of a loading dock near the library presents an inconvenience to shippers. Moreover, Ms. Seeman believes that builders should not just \stick on\ an additional building but rather maintain a \unified concept\ for the project. Although the librarY' adds some 9,000 volumes per year to its collection, Ms. Seeman stressed the need for additional current books. She said that this would help keep the pace of the ever changing curriculum. The renovation of the Nott Memorial is also part of the administration',:; long-term plan to ameliorate facilities. Although Jack Maranville, Vice President of Institutional Planning, does not foresee any development on such a project in the ne:l!.i year or two, he does believe that \Everybody knows you've got to do something with the Nott.\ Most probably, the renovation will entail more than an im- provement of the external appearance. A committee will study how effectively the Nott serves its purpose as a theatre. Director Randi Goldstein and Drama. Professor Barry Smith could not be reached for comment on this issue. According to Leata Jackson of the Mountebanks, the basement of the Nott, which is now the bookstore, will be converted into a practice room with soundproof cubicals. Dr. Maranville pointed out that the recently completed renovations of the student center and the alumni gym also \emerged out of high quality needs.\ The cost of such projects, he explained, does not burden a specific generation of students since a percent of the college's revenue goes into a capital projects account each year. However, Dr. D'Andrea commented that the college also has to find outside support to fund the projects. By looking at the develop- ment of the next three to seven years, Dr. Maranville can figure out what issues must be attended to. As the Union College Mission Statement says, the Office of the Chairman of the Board of Trustees and the Planning and Priorities Committee generate such ideas so that Union can \continue to be a selective, high quality, residential undergraduate college.\ Dr. Maranville said, \It's a process where we're going to insure a healthy Union College, and not take things for granted.\ Another area Dr. Maranville will study is that of Residence Life. He will try to determine how successfully Union is avoiding \isolation from the community.\ Moreover, Dr. Maranville will study the co-educational nature of the school, which has only a 17-year history of ac- cepting women. He will also continue to analyze how demographics affect the school's enrollment. He said, \At Union, we may face a minor decline in enrollment due to the number of high school graduates that represent the diversity and quality of the student body we want to maintain, but it won's be a problem.\ Since Union is primarily an undergraduate institution, Dr. Maranville will look at the relationship between the un- dergraduate and graduate programs, credit and non-credit courses, and full and part-time students. Union's Mission Statement reads, \ ... graduate education will continue to be a part of Union College, but such programs will be monitored carefully so as to avoid un- wanted distortions.'' Dr. Maranville added that although he had worked alongside President Morris in making long-term plans for quite some time, a separate office for such planning became official just last year. He said, \We are responsible to keep the college aware of the best possible options for issues that emerge, and we try to do that as systematically as possible.\ GIVE BLOOD THURSDAY AND FRIDAY, OCTOBER 1ST AND 2ND. RED CROSS WILL BE IN OLD CHAPEL FROM 11 AM - 5 PM

Page, 4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 Acquaintance Rape· ... Administration Promotes Student -Awareness The following is a list of tlie- amount allocated to· dubs and committees last spring ter~. The Finance Committee will consider unfund.ed clubs lor funding. However, 111' order to· be eligiblt~; !he dub !ilUSt petition the committee m person. Dl.!r meetings are ev~ry Tuesday at 7pm ih4j 0 C.C. Club Requested Alloc:a1ed Opening Balat'lce $0.00 $0:00 Amnesty int $1,050.00 $565:00 arts club $2,750.00 $560.00 big bro $10,347.50 $7,072.00 bio $2,310.00 $1,294.00 BlAS $15,735.00 $2,480.00 cabaret $0.00 $0.00 .camp union $~2,350_00 $19,0()0.00 cheerleaders $3;000.00 $1,665.00 chemclub . $265.00. $185.00 choir $0.00 $0:00 Ci[Cie k $3,151.40 $1,2~5.00 class olfic!?!rS $3,000~00 $2,000.00 cor:~cert pand $4,265.00 $1,962;00. concert comm $50,000.00 $26,000;00 con cordi $32,650.00 $28,000.00 crfNtl $26;285.00 $17,475.00 dance club $0.00 $0:00 dance ensemble $4,326_00 $2,5~0:()0 dutch pipers $845.00 $595,00 eco club $0.0() $0.00 fencing club $3,317.q5 $~,97.7.00 filecomm $16,250.00 $13,000.00 fitzugh. $6.5()0_00 $6,000.00 french $1,322.00 $4~0.00 frisbee $1;020.00 $290.00 Continued from page 1 college's main hope is to in- crease campus a\Hareness and to promote good relationships between men and women on the campus. Dean Mammola. is especially concerned that \women feel safe and secure in visiting any facility on campus and to insure all organizations on campus, incl!lding frater- nities, provide anatmosphere in which the rights. of all peol;)le ~re respected.\ Dean Mammol;a, also hope'S that his office can. help a victim if help is wanted. The college will shortly put out a pamphlet on sexual harassment for the information for .students and employees. It outlines gaming assoc garnet Don't wait to .the last minute to get them, either. $1,351 :oo $485.00 $21;675.00 $15,31.0,00 garnet miostrels $800.00 $3:30.()0 german $365.00 $220.00 gospel ensemble $1,010.00 $810;00 ~ homecoming $2,443.00 $2,0()();00 Idealist $7,300.00 Textbook shortage ... specifically wl1·at sexual harassment is (which most definitely includes acquain· tance rape), what the college's policy is, what t.he law says, what one can do about it, and whom to go to for help. There is a counseling center on campus. Three trained pro-fessionals are on hand, two .()of whom are clinical psychologists. The College Health Service offers attention from two doctors, including a gyaecologisi. In Schenectady there is a Rape Crisis Center. Anyrtime a victim goes for help, W11ess he or she presses formal cllarges, details of the case are kept in con- fidence. Inaccurate· Pre-Registration Figures to Blame idol ire isu jazz ensemble karate ·lampoon math club mens rugby Mountebanks OL!ting pep band philosophy $5·,ooo.oo $12,519_50 $4,628.25 $4,545.50 $2,333.00 $3,555,00 $1,710.00 $5,71().00 $2.940,00 'fO.OO $0,00 0.00 $.0,00 $220.00 $195.00 $6,585.00 $3,860.00 $11 ,080_00 $7,S40.00 $4,780.00 $775.00 $1,910.00 $760.00 $0.00 . $0.00 If a victim does press charges, however, there are certain steps th:at should be taken. The first i;g to go to the Dean of Students Office and notify them of the incident. From there, the case can be taken to the Cgnd11ct Committee or to an outside a11thority. If the offender is found guilty, punish- ment ranges irom social probation to eX!Julsion within the college's juristdiction, and to imprisonment outside of the college's jurisdiction. Dr. Parrot quCJted statistics from another eollege where only one in a hundred acquaintance rapes were reported. That college was much larger. Jf two were reported here last year, how many have gone unnoticed? This college is small and because most e\i'eryone knows the majority of fruces, one would think it would never happen here. Do not' be surprised - we here are not inuni!Ile to rape. Continued from page 2 For this term, he merely foll()wed past procedure. He agrees thaf fall term should be treated differently than the other terms, d~ to both new freshmen and new editions of te:xt.books. He claims that the - bookstore will be more aware of this .m the future. In the meantime, books have been reordered \as fast as possible.\ The book store loses customers - and therefore has no reason to purposely underorder. Most books, when reordered, arrive in just a few days, but some can take as long as ten days. This is because some publishing companies ship their books through a computerized system, and are not equipped to speed up shipping. Other companies are based as far away as California. Because the book store deals with about one thousand publishing companies, it is impossible to keep track of which ones are slower in the reordering process. Mr. Majlaton stressed the fact that it is to the disad- vantage of the book store, as well as the students, When the Do something different this weekend. Play 1M You've seen the action in the hit movie ''Gotch~\ Now put yourse.Jt.. in the fun!, Call 583-2759 {l.oeal call from Capital District) out of the- area, dial 1-800·221-9211 ext. 196 Playi111J field and picnic are·a available for private .parties. Student discounts always avaJiable. CLIP THiS AD FOR A FREE TUBE OF PAINT books do net arrive quickly. Students eventually find other sources from which to buy their books, and some are conte:nt to share with their t!lassmates. The book store loses customers, and therefore has no reason to purposely underorder. The lack of books may stem more from the preregistration process than from the book store. Many students change their classes after preregistration, causing the preregistration figures the book store uses to be inaccurate. An English professor states that thirteen students preregistered for his class. and that there are twenty students presently enrolled in the class. Even if the book store had ordered a few extra books, it would not have been enough. The professor believes that, instead of putting pressure on the book store, the students should take preregistration more seriously. photo lt-710.00 $320.00 physics $2.791.00 $1,6()0;00 pre-health $0.00 $0.00 pre-law .-D.OO $0.00 psych $3,725.00 $2,461.00 ri<Jing club $6,914.00, $3,525.00 scuba $946_00. $845.00 ski $7,208_00 $5,135.00 social alternatives $17,90tLOO $8,325.00 social comm $12,37MO $4;0()1.00 spanish club $100_00 $1()0.00 speakers forum $36;350 .00 $28,170.00 sr. fling $2,500_00 $500.00 stoneboat $0.00 $0.00 student activ $14;000~00 $10,000.00 student forum $26,000~00 $2,500.00 traveling club $100.00 $100.00 video club $4,107.00 $2;823.00 W2UC $2,115.00 $1,735.00 womens network $1:100.00 $795.00 womens rugby $2,823.00 $1,560.00 WRUC $40,617.35 $29,367.80 yoga $1,250.00 $525.00 Who is your Financial R_epresehtative? Here are the finance Committee Assignments ... C()ntact your rep. today! DAVID COHEN Box255 386-4196 KIMBERLY HANCOCK Box693 386-4460 KRISTEN NELSON Box 1653 386-4364 HELEN GOLIGifTL Y JEAN MATUS (VP FINANCE) CHRIS PIKE STEVEROCK • Box2071 370-6952 Box 623 Box 1 079 Box 1801 386-4:-no 386-4466 374-1994 --Homecoming-. - ---Brunch Sunday, October 11th Make reservations now, before 10/7 with Dutch Hollow Re·staurant. cashier. Adults $6.00 Children under 12$4.00 or ~eaJ c;ard p~nC?h with s,chool I.D. -ALL YOU CAN EAT- '.

•·:\;·~\.~, CONCORDIENSlS, October 1, 1987 • • Page 5 Philosoph:y Forurri on .. B Gwendolyn Brooks By ALAN CHIDSEY DICKSON When r sat in tile lush surroundings of the n:.e\'1 student auditoriwn listening totlle rise and fall of the sJng-song cadence of Ms~ Br(}()ks' haun- ting verse, I was sure that I was W1derwater; so self·~()nscious was 1 of myself. What 1 felt, 1 believe, was the effect ()f words so pregnant with the '\hEre and now\ and \validity\ of Black Humanity that I, 'White per- son', felt myself cof.I~J>Lcu() usly enclosed within my ()WIJ skin. It seems to me that a11y p()etry which is colored by ·~. culture willinspire a ''dualn~ccissismn as Frantz Fannon descTilJes it in his Black Skin, \Vhioo·Masks, where we embody olll' p-igment, each to our own, to tlte bighE:st . superfluity. Do not tllillk that Ms. Brooks' poetry mntributes to the vicious narcillsism that seals different cultllres. of Humanity off from one ~~n<Jther; it is just the contrary. Following Fannon;s lead, her poetry gives testame11t to the \shameful livery put together by centuries ()E - in- comprehension.\ The indignity of a Humanity divicled against itself is felt- by everyu!le to be sure; racial prejudice is not only an Ul1tenable JJDSition in any realm of intellect11alisrn, it is also a debasement uf human sensitivity. However, Br<1oks read selections of poett\y using exclusively tbe perso11a. of the oppress~d since it is ()nly they who must deal wtih racism as an ever-present pa~ of there \here and now\ which, to no one's surprise, is contrasted with the \here a11d now\ of anyone's else ( nnocent and gulity party alike). :Fannon says that the many White con- ceptions ofBlaek Hiurnanity are mere artifacts ccmtrived as often out of ignorance as malice. The real \fact of Blackness'', a:? :Fannon at- tested, is the experi-ence ofone's Being through <Jthers. For Brvoks, to .experiemce yourself as someone else'seonception of you ~ts one way to feel the \validity\ of a questionable existence. Her poem, \We Real Cool,\ is so muc:h the quin- tessence of the existential torment of an opp.ressed race, that it is a ~eas11r:e of Brooks' talent .that it is eXlJressed with such economy. Sh~ delivers the .fact of blackness 'With a strict avoidance of 'bopeful' con- notations .and close to the \Truth\ as best ,she sees it: \We die soon.'' Jadging from tbe applause at the closing Qf :Ms. Brooks' reading, the impact of her poetry does not kruow color. As one member of the audience wbo has never had. the occasion to feel inferior to another person for reasons of race, I feel I profited from the wisdom of her words as much as: anyone else present. If I can, to what extent it can be said of anyone, Wl· de:rstand Ms. Broo-ks' purpose- to find humor and' insight and a glimpse of her own. \validity\ in her cmecdotal prose-then it is a testament to o11r common Humanity and a \'little truth\ well worth noting. FEATURES .t Up, Up and Away . ByCATHYMARKES ' How many times have you just wished for something to dD off-campus to help you forget about schOol for awhlle? Usually you settle for going tD the movies or going to the mall, but the choices within your budget are . definitely limited. Every once in a while,. though, you may discover something new and unique which happens to be well worth your time. Last weekend a group of my friends and I decided to venture out ot the ordinary rut of ''things to do in the Capital District\ by heading north to Glens Falls for the balloon festival held there. Scheduled annually in late September, this year's Adirondack Hot-Air Balloon Festival once ag;ain upheld its reputation .as the largest event of its kind 011 the East Coast. On account of the st1dden change for the best in the weekend's weather, we del!id~d to drive up for the. 4::1~ :FN launch on Saturday. ~~~t before dusk is rumored to,be tbe ideal time for a launch, ::~i11ce the air is very still.) The lir-ive wasn't -long although we l!ad anticipated traffic, there ·really were no delays because {)<f the proximity of the festival toO tbe Northway. The location w~s at the Monroe County Airport., a11d the parking was ple11t:iflll on-yes, you guesed it-the runway. balloons. But once they began their preparations, I couldn't believe how simple U all looked. In general, the inflation process was relatively quick and uncomplicated. The nylon \- balloon was laid on the ground and inflated by means of a 3'x3' electric fan while a person on the ground held it secure. Steadily, the balloon increased in size and when almost com- pletely filled, burst of hot hydrogen gas from a tank replaced the fan. In this way, the balloon was inflated to its full proportions and was thus ready for flight. Adirondack Center Starts FaiJ· Series There were plenty of pEople there, strolling around the different exhibits on plane:s ~net balloons, or sampling the f(Jiods from the stands which served everything from Ben & Je-r.rt~s to knockwurst. We joined the crowd and walked around for awhile, since the word wa:S out that the balloons were going: 11p later than the anticapted 4::30 PM. Most interesting to us wvas that although an estimated fifty to seventy balloons were to be launched, there was not a 'lbe colors and designs were original, bright and colorful, arui' in every direction I saw no tiling but variety. Across the field a few balloons left the gr()und, while next to where we stood there were still some un.inflated. The sky was eventually filled with rainbow stripes, big green shamrocks, huge pink giraffes and even the Be11ihana man with his white chef's hat. It was an incredible sight, and I felt like quite the inconspicuous dot on the ground amidst it all. Mr. William Verner, Adirondack Histoxlan and Director of the S()beneetady Museum, will prese11t a sli.de presentation ·\150 Y-ean; of the Adirondack Mountains: Commemorating tile First Ascent of Mount M;al:.\cy'' on College students may. attend free of charge. A $:l.OO dcmation is requested from the general public, who are :m.ost cordially invited. Refreshments . will follow Mr. Verner's presen~ tation. Thursday evening, Oetober 8 Mount Marcy was first beginning at 8:00 p.~ at the climbed and expl()cedon August Schenectady Museum 5, 1637, 150 yeal's ago. Mr. auditorium, Nott Terrace Verner will e:xplore the Heights. This will be the first of fascinating details of this .first three programs hostEl! by the wilderness e:lplor.:ati()n of the Adirondack Resear-cl! Center Adirondacks, th~e scientific this fall. Researcb Center basis for it, and !the profound members, Museum members, consequences ,of tbe trip wllich -.... Senior Citizens aitd Union last to this day, nCJt tile least of 2\' ...... , ..... ..,..,,.,,.,,,.,,...;n....-uu,.r..rr..r.r,.,..r.r,.....-.r,.r,.....,....-,-,,.,,,,.,,.....f,.r.r.r.....-.r,.r.r,/,,.r'1 ~ Cete&ra:te .tfn~ Ka.rvest S ecis.on.. ~ ~ . 2 ~ at Dowr'ltClwn. Schenectady'$ Annual ~ ~ O~to&. erf· est ~ ~ ~ ~ on Saturday, Oc1ober 1 0 from 12 noon - 5 p.m. ~ ~ · S1ate and ·Jay Streets ·~ ~ ~ ~ Set the stage -for music by ~ ~ The Bava~an Barons ~ ~ ~ ~. Harvest Foods, Farmer's Market anti Craft-s ~ ~ 372·5656 ~ ~ . . . . . -~ U//////J//.////////..I'..;'.,r_r..tu,..J// ...... / ..... .r./.r.J',//,_,.,,_, ...... _,, ......................... _,H;.r_,.f//j..f'..l'_,./..1'_,./,..., SENIORS YEARBOOK PICT'U.RE - . - SIGN'-U·PS NOW Student Ac1ivities Rm 408, 4th floor ~ignups Sept. 28-0ct. 2 - Pictures Oct. $ .. 9 which was the first naming of the Adirondack Mountains. The Adirondack Research Center was founded in 1980 and is dedicated to foster a better understanding of the Adiron- dack , Park and Forest Preserve. Its library in the Schenectady Museum holds one of the most extensive Adiron- dack collection of books and writings in the region. For further information about the other two programs on this fall's speakers series, call tile Reseach Center at 3a2-7890, or visit us. at the Museum. · balloon in sight until after a half-hour before they left tile ground. We watched as eacll: in· dividual's equipment \0\'as transported to locations roug:llly twenty feet apart on the aii'!lod field. Knowing the size of tihoese balloons is rather large 'i'/llen inflated, I couldn't help llut wonder bow these people 11\-Er'e going to simultaneously- ~o about taking off in their Like after a Fourth of July fireworks display, we followed groups of people back to our car talking about which we liked best, and how quickly the time • had passed. I suddenly remembered that I had a problem set to finish, some laWldry to be done and a resume to be written ... but the best thing was that I hadn't thought abo11t any of it the entire afternoon and that it didn't realy seem worth worrying about anymore. Coming soon ... Delta Gamma's Best of the Best at Union College 50 cents ·per entry sheet VOTE FOR YOUR CLASS fAVORITES I ! ! There will be '5 categories: •Best Dressed., Biggest Flirt • Most Athl·etic • Class Clown • Party Animal

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 'FEATURE:S ROTC Profile Students furl a sail at Mystic Seapon Mystic .. . . An Adventure On and About the Sea ByTIMMICAL Are you tired of the same old thing at Union? If so, a_ perfect way to get away-either in the Fall or in the Spring-is to take a term at Mystic Seaport in Mystic Seaport. Students are invited to an informational meeting by tile Williams College-Mystic Seaport Program in American Maritime Studies. The leading maritime museum. In tbis way,. 1he program takes advantage ()f that institution's outstanding maritime collec- tions, exl!ibits, library, marine laboratory and coastal location. resources, and the impact of our modern society upon it. Former students have carried this understanding into careers in marine science,. law; maritime museums, teaching, medicine and environmental studies, among other fields. You needn't be a science maj()r to participate in this semester, however. Come to the meeting on Tuesday to find ou1 more . . . The Williams-Mystic Program-it's not a term overseas, it's an adventure on and about the sea! By TRA.CEY PRYLUCK Junior Mina Martin is one of q limited number of students at Union College involved ht the Air Force ROTC .program. She travels between Union College and RPI several times a vve~k for courses, drill practice, and· leadership labs, and will bE serving in the corps. for f~lll' years following graduati()IJ from Union, in exchange foi: e1. full-tuition scholarship. Mina is currently taldng a. management course threE semester hours a week at RPJ: in conjunction with the program. -The course involves extensive research :iJ!, management theory an(j: leadership. Last year, she t()o:k a course on the history of air· power, occupying()ne hour .of classtime . each week. D~~ring - her freshman year, Mina was enrolled in an introduct()t) course which ()Utlined the branches of the Air Force an<! armed services. In addition, Mina atte11cls leadership labs on Tuesdays at . RPI, at which gaest speakers discuss jobs in the Air F<Jree and drill an(l- leadershi:P problems. Drtu . practice is usually held for freshmen an.<! sophomores on Sunday af· ternoons. As a junior, Mina llas a job as an Assistant General Training Officer, also at RPI. Mina spends about an ho11r commuting the 15 miles to ail(!' presentation will be held on Tttesday, October 5 at 4:00 p.m. in the Milano Lounge ( seCGnd floor Hale House.). Come and hear about this unique op- porttmity to study the sea for one semes~r in a full-credit Liberal Arts program. Students choose from course offerings in American maritime history, marine biology or oceanog•aphy, maritime literature and art, and a milti-disciplinary seminar in the uses of the sea. In addition, students develop new maritime skills under professional in· struction, including boat- building, celestial navigation and small-boat handling. Each semester, students spend two . weeks offshore aboard the schooner lfes~ard, un- dertaking marine research and gaining ex:perience on board a large sailingvessel. Whale Watch '87 Tbe program offers students a challenging opportunity to focus one semester of their studies at college on the sea, and on man's relationship with it in. the past, present and fature~ Students -uve in co()perative houses at Mystic Seaport Museum, the nation's We feel· a semester at Mystic is an ex:dting liberal arts ex- perience. Tile program aims .fo1 a better understanding of the sea itself, our need for its many By EDLIN Provincetown, Mass., Sept. 25-26. The Whale Watch, sponsored by the Biol<Jgy Department, was cbaracteri:led with excitement, learning, socializing and sea sickness among many other things. Practical Experience Prof. George Battersteiil led the group of 49 on the ex· pedition. Among the group were Prof. Helen Birecka of biol()g:y, her husband, Prof. and M;s. Niel Garrod from the Instit11te of Administraion and Management. V()lunteers are needed to assist with a variety of programs held at the Oswald D. Heck Developmental Center on Balltown Road, Schenectady and its \Saddlewood Day Program\ School ill Colonie. Retired persons, high school and college studellts,andlor any . concerned community resident is invited to share their time and talents by helping the mentally retarded · develop- mentally disabled tlli:s summer. The agency's biggest need is to find a perso11 with wood- working interest a11d/ or skills to help build and repair active stimulation equipment used by our severe alld profoundly handicapped students at our Saddlewood Day Program. Staff will be available to assist and train volunteers in un· derstanding how the special equipment works, how each piece is built and why they are necessary for continuing our clients' development. Security Workers Needed!!! Night slllfts available. Contact Michelle 377-7058 or Chris 386·41 01 Volunteers' past experience is not a necessity nor a requirement; volunteers just need to llave the desire to learn and help those who have a need for specialized programming, activities and attention. Volunteers are also needed to take clients to and from religious services, be a special friend, asist in clerical duties, join fund raising projects and/or assist in prevocational and vocatillnal day programs or in recreational activities with therapists. . Placements are done on an individual basis to mutually meet our clients needs and the volunteers interests. If you want more infomiation about the O.D. Developmental Center and ou.r volunteer op- portunities, call the Volunteer Office at 37()-7396 or:170-7425. ,. The group left early Friday afternoon and arrived in Provincetown in time for supper. Everyone was free to walk around town and find places to eat. The participants divided into groups of three to twelve people each. The ch()ice of food was predominantly seafood and lobsters with prices ranging from $9 to $20. As for socializing, the a~~ tivities included beach walks, shopping, unpublisized alcoh()l socials and HBO movies. For many, a-lcohol consumption a11d staying up late seemed to be the most popular event on Friday· night. The weather on Saturday was sunny and breezy but the waves Women's Commission You are invited to attend the firs1 . meeting ··of 1987-88 12:45 p.m. Hum-anities Building, Room 119 AGENDA 1:) Selection of a treasurer, secretary and Focus editor 2) Scheduling the Fall Party 3} Future programs We have scheduled the first meeting of the Women's Commission for Monday, October 5 (the first monday of October) from 12:45-1:45 p.m. We realize that this might be a bad time for some of you. Please come even if you must be late. We will discuss accommodating our schedule to Geltime at the meeting. ~ - were rougller . than us11al. Dramamine for motion sickness was provided on boal\'d the 100 feet boat and tb.e passengers were advised to take it. The boat ride was rougl1 and some people, even with the help , of Dramamine, became sea sick. Tbis particular sea sick member quickly learned several slangs exchanged among the group ior regurgitating such as \b\ar· fing,\ \yakking\ and \power , booting.\ \Next time,\ said one watcher, \I'm gettillg Dramamine intravenously.\ Some offered advice such a~, \Pretend you're at an amusement park.\ That might have helped but it is very 1lll- . common to be in an amusernEDt. park for 4 hOurs on the same ride. Others offered gum and. ,consolation. \Never again!\ was one comment. Majority of the group enjoyed. themselves although it was; disappointing that only oneo whale was sighted tbis time---a. tm-'back approximately 55 f.eet long. Tbis was a new expetier1ceo for al111ost half the group. Diane Piasecki '89 said she is '\all ready to go again.\ MMit members of the group felt 1he- same. One might note that some- interest in this event was: generated particularly by th()S~ who were exposed to marine life: through the marine biology- course offered this fall. 'Ibec Whale Watch expedition Waf; opened to anyone interested OIL a first·come first-served basi!;; On this trip, the group included. lOdging, bus trip and boat. ':N(Jt expensive\ was very good. The: cost for this event totaled $~4'. Dr. Butterstein noted that ih~ department subsideized very- little this year due to the large: turn-out. Dr. Butterstein videotaped. parts of this year's whaling: experience. He plans to show it- at the neKt Biology Club~ meeting. All those interested inr viewing the tape are e1!- couraged to attend. , from !{.PI, the Ce11tral Deten~ tion Center (D~t ~1;0) :f()r the Capital Distriet. l)u~ing her freshman yea!:', -wilen there we.re 15 Union stuclents involved in the program, fliglltmeetings and drill practicE vre~elleld at Union. Now that ltllere are only about nineUnion~tude11ts inthe ,program, siX' O:f W'hO!Il Will be graduating io June, the students must cCJristantly coinl:rlute to RPI. Mina was one of ,folll\' Union Col'lege students,\WhO assisted in the AFROT'C :rresllman orientation pr()g,~~,m at RPI; August 22 to Au:gus.t 29; Pam Conners, Jeff N()llln and Dave Garfoli also W;()J:\k<eCI witll the freshmen, helpin~ tbe:m adjust to life in the reser\Ves. Freshmen in tbe sch>larship program, as 'iVell as the r.eserves, have rtlle op.ti(}n of dropping from tme program at the end of their first year at college, free of all d~bt:s and responsibilities. Field trair1ing marks a serious ~onunltment to the program. The summer after her sophomore year\ Mina spent four weeks in Plla:t~burgh f()r field trai1;1ing, eonstitLiting approximately fi:ft:y percent of all of her tr!lioin~ while in colll;lge. Intemleirl to b11ild a spirit of team wo·rk a11d g:et the most done in. the smallest amount of time,, field training was four weeks: <if iaten~ive physical traininll atld <!rills. Min1l attended le<Jtures on leadership, proEesS.iomalism. and officer/noncol11J.lllitted officer relationships. T'h.el\'e wa:S also a one-day shado vr :pl\'ogram during which slbe f()llowEd an officer involved in tile career she was considerLng. Other aspects; o-f field training included three dars of survival training, during ~Whicll sne learned how to JLse a <lO!Ilpass, which plants and bu£s arE safe to eat, and, basically lt~w to survive. About '71),percent of;tne cadets were flo'Wn to. Columbus, Mississippi for fll_gbt tl\'aining «Jn T-37's. There vrere nlliDerous bussed tours of the bas-e and a day trip to Fort l[n<OK, Kentucky for more traini~ f:n areas sueh as grappling, as ~'!'elL The year thai JVIiaa attended fielo training, ten c:ad~ts ftom Great Britain's R:oyai.Air .Force participated im tbe first-ever field trainin~ .e&:change program. Mi11a thot!ght the exchange was a ierrifie way to observe the dhfflltenl:!'es in tbe · · American vie-w of the Air · Force, and Gt'eoat. Britain's view. In Great IJritain, tile Air Force involVES! a 15-yeat commitment, as opposed to the four years in tbe United States. The program is far nl()J:\e S()Cial and less physica:ll:y rlgo~ous in Great Britain wlllen c-ontrasted Withtbe United ~t:a:tes AFROTC. Despite th•e rigor()US demands, Mina feels th~t the Air Force ROTC pr~gE\amhas a lot to offer. It l)rovi<les ber with leaoership exp.erien{le, enables her to bUild hersllllf-con:fi<ience, and provides ber ,witb. a free college educ.ation and a guaranteed j·ob after graduation. J11 .addition Mi.ria said that tU!e .AFROTC is \like a club,\ attr.acti.ng people with similar idt!!als and g()als. She believes th.at sbe has , learned a lot a.bottt herself under pressur.e thn11gll' field . · training, and ;sme claims that · tlie AFROTC ''cl1Jes11't seem like work.'' In her opini-{)D, it tattes about the same amotmt of time as work-study.. Nin.a only wishes m()re peo:ple knewabou.t the program becaus.eslle thinks it is definitely wo-rthwhile. \

.. ·r£ONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 Page 7 Ode to Anxiety ·By 'MARJORlEMOFFER words were nC>t ''How do :ymu do?\but instead. \How did :Y!DU .. I can't wait until October 17ls do''? over. Like many other seniors,. I Anotb~r amtiety . .,provoki!lg am s111Jjeot to another round: of aspect was the parki11g standardized texts this year. problem. I drive a very lar~e Unfonunately, this set makes atttomobile and my sll.l1ltller the SA'l''s .seem. like cake. And, SHK center is in a pseud~oity unlike the ~·new undergraduate where parking is so.scarceit~s a college ·:admissions .trend\ precious coriiiilodity. Durillg whiell is placing less em,ph~sis \rush hour\ when I'd arl\'iV\e on the S:A1', the sad fact fmc me downtown, I. had so is that the only things that count many near-misses with c~cs for Law School. are yo1,1r grades that I entered class in a fre11z~. and y:olll' scores and the Parking my car for Sta11ley . pareatal donation of ,a library. · Kaplan was like squeezing into On my route to Law School, 1 the jeans yo:u wore at the ·was forc~d to encounter the beginning. of freslnnan year-:at LSAT. l.bave not taken· it yet -the end offresfunan year. N()li'l, but I know it's a horrible exam. .of .course, how was I to · eom- So:'fl()rriMe, in fact, that ccm- centrate in class after being so'' bineci with my mediocre frazzled? grades, my chances for a ~ob Anyway, the classes were Qne like Judge Wopner's look very thing, applying to take the te;st slim indered, which leads me to was another. It .took me sa my beacon. of hOpe! A great guy • entire afternoon and put me Ollt wb() my grandmother thinks over a hundr-ed dollars. 'Tbe I'm-datin,g-sta.nley H. Kaplan. LSAT handbook actually. lies He's· not just a guy, he's an pages of directions to foUOtw institution. Needless to say, I while filling C>ut the form. I ers.'' •For- all it's worth, there swear! I read them, I had .t.o~ costly C{)urses this summer. My Then, you have to subscribe 1()1a teach.er was a total intellectual special service that converis who WlJUld l)Coff at the co~cept everyone's gradEs of the LSAT when asked about it- somehow~and every scbo·ol out o:f the SHK center. But he you apply to costs five · was smart enough to take a job dollars-not Jo mention th~t that paid for his rent, his ·car every . school requires tb~ and a gre:at wardrobe, (which is sttbmission of. a matching fc:~m .. one thing that he DID not spend Whatever that is. hismoneyon). . When the fatal test is fin~J]y The class was. once a week C>ver I'll be able to breathe. 'Tbe from 5:3() to 10:30. I tried to control will be out of my hands strategize two important and into a group ·Of what has aspects concerning this class. been described to me as One was when to eat. Should I ''arrogant admissions oEf~ c- eat before, or after class? ficers.\ Fo all it's worth, .tbell'e Before Heft, 5 p.m., seemed so are plenty of us in the same bo.at early, and when I arrived home, spending our free time at the 10:40 p.m. wsso late. This was a local SHK center. Hopefully Itly . serious problem as I was often efforts will be rewarded and I'll hungry during the rein· get into some semi-reputG~lllle forcement test at the end of institution of legal teachings, If class. Therefore I suppose I did not, I'll see you at 1\lc- . not always perform that well. Donalds-I'll· be the o11e This stvessed, family relations wearing the blue polyester. FEATURES The Union Cheerleaders Cheerleaders Take a Stand By STA(::EY PAPA The cheerleaders are back and ready to go! With an in- . creased budget they have now become . a club with a paid coach. The Q.ew c;:oach is Judy Allen of Burnthills,. New York. She has coached high school for seventeen years and enjoys the job very much. Her interest in Union was sparked by her · husband,. an Alumni of the school. Suprisingly, cheerleading at Union College began as an all men's squad. Laura Iacoviello and Amy Baboff (co-captains), say they \would love to see guy cheerleaders on the squad.\ The two of them are rather petite and serve as the back- ·bone for mounts, ''this is when the strength of the guys could help\ states Laura. They feel it is ironic that the guys now look down upon cheerleading, for they started it. The two girls pointed out that most Division I football teams, such as Boston College and Syracuse have male cheerleaders. The Co-Captains feel the budget was augmented because ''the administration recognized (the cheerleaders') dedication, initiative and serious11ess.\ With· greater funds the squad · can affl>rd a coach, full uniforms, transportati<ln, and lodging ex:penses. The girls practice everyday from 4: 30-6: 00 trying to choreograph new cheers with more difficulty. Newly aquired members and a fresh new season provides novel ideas. Mrs. Allen provides a creative . approach .by presenting videos and books. She offers sup- port and safety tips for the squad. Safety has recently become a serious concern since last year's accident at another college, when a cheerleader died performing a mount. This national scare also prompted Union to hire a trained coach for the cheerleaders here. Nonetheless, with this safety precaution, the girls are at- tempting harder mounts whiGh represent college cheerleadingQ a more advanced version of high school cheer leading. mean business! '' Secondly, they want to get the crowd ina volved, and increase the spirit . Goodbye lethargy- hello ex- pression! The cheerleaders want the stude11t body to feel that \wow these girls are making a mark for Union College ' football and basket- ball!\ Just like every other sp()tt, the cheerleaders take their work seriously. They arrive on campus early for pre ,season practice! Ad- diUonally, they raise money by selling buttons at the game, to ali()W emergency funding which all()WS them to travel to the play-off games, For those interested in becoming a cheerleader, tryonts for the basketball squad will be late OctC>ber. Presently, the squad will retain the same members as the football season. Being a chedeader involves execution, . voice, some gym- nastic ability, a }()tof fun, great exercise and a new way to meet people. The cheerleaders have certainly constructed a solid fottndation on which to build. We look forward to seeing them in the Homecoming parade! at my bo11se a tad,.for when I ----..----------------------- This year, the sqaad has established goals. The first goal is for the cheerleaders to be recagnized <ts a support group for the teams- not as .a btrnch of people yellillg on the field- as Amy Baboff sternly states, \we came home my father's. first - . -----~-==~----------------.--- N d A E ') · 1 ~,. •• ,. 0 ,~ Tribute to l11terested In Writing Features? . ee .· • . · · n · ar • ~;:&~;,~:. ByiiiNAHAND academic anxiet~es and (_~· Zucchinies questions about the future to If' Many of u~ are unaware tif .a relationship problems, sexual Have you ever stopped to wonderful service that UoiaJn concerns, eating disorders and think what world history wotlld Ca II Ca.thy at 4371r Mariorie at o961 or Wendy a1381-9089 College has to offer. i!lle alcoholanddrugconcerns. With ·have been like without zuc- CounSeling Center, new-ly the exception of emergency life chinis? located on the third float\ of threatening situations, the No, you say. Well, y()u're not Silliman Hall,. is open· to . amy Center has no obligation to alone, according tc a recent undergraduate Union Colle!:e disclose any information and an national survey. student.. The Center is a netlil\al sessions are kept completely . • 'When it comes to an un- confidential place where pe'!JJie confidential. There are three derstanding of the zucchini • s can go and talk. They are al»le counselors available: Don critical role in the world, most to deal with a variety of Spring :and Tim Dowling are people are as dumb as problems ranging frl)tm both with the Psychology cucumbers,\ said a member of UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE JAMES TAYLOR PROCTOR'S OCTOBER 24TH, SATURDAY $18.50 UNION HAS THE BEST 500 SEATS CONCERT COMMITTEE TICKETS ON SALE lN BOX OFFICE THE KOSHER KITCH·EN is looking for a student helper Wages Negotiable. ' CONTACT: Anc;ly Kaplan- 386-4096 · D<>ug PierceQ 374-1994 374-3239 Department here at Union, the Zucchini Central Com- while Linda Frye is a MSW mfitee, the group that com- (Masters in Social Work) Social missioned the poll. \Zucchini is Worker. Students have the the only thing that has a lower option of requesting a coun- name recognition than every selor. Most sessions are in- 1 currentpresidentialeanclidate. dividual, although group sessios Accordingly, the committee can be arranged. Generally • has declared the theme of the sessions are. weekly and last 6th Alllltlal Internati()nal about an hour, but scheduling Zucchini Festival to be \Zuc- can be modified to fit the in- chini: Gourd of Destiny.'·' ·The dividual's needs. festival, the only safe outlet for I'd like to encourage anyone the annllal zucchini sut\plus who feels the need to make use was held August 22 at Keene · of this facility. The office- is State College in Keene, New remote and the environment Hampshire. The day-lcng extremely comff.>riable. They festival included participatory really want to help! One im· events, games and exhibits portant note; you don't have to focusing C>n the zucchini and its be \crazy\ or a \weirdo'' to go. often neglected nook in the Most of the .people who do are garden of history. · mainstream students .like you The poll of 1,300 people were and I who just need a place to go asked a series of questions to and talk. In fact, the stable gauge their level of knowledge environment and optimistic about the zucchini and their -· future Union gears us toward opinion about the squash. makes the sessions typically Only one perceot, for in- more effective. For more in- stance, coiTectly knew that Sir formation visit the Center or Isaac Newton discovered the call 370-6161 any weekday the.ory of gravity by tf.ipping ......_ ______ \\'!.\':'. ·\\· '·\\'· \\'· .!!\!\'~' .. .,. ...... ~ •• ~.·\\'· ·\'~'.~· ·'\'· .~ .• ~.-.\!'!!. ~. ~. ~- .'IJ\'. ,... .. ...,\l!\'!\\'!' \' ..• _ }~~t~~en 8:.39J,\M~.~.39R;l\4 ... ·' , ,. , ove~ a zt1cchini vine an,d fa~ng / hea'<l-first into a ripe squash. Out of emba:rrassment, he fabricated the apple-dropping story, which 86 percent of the people still beli~ve, according to the pcll. Thirteen percent thought Sir Isaac Newton discovered the fig bar. An overwhelming majority of those polled were wtaware that the Pilgrim's first Thanksgiving dinner included only one turkey and a meager supply of corn~what provided the real bulk of tile meal and got them through the winter was zucchini: zuccbilli bread, baked zucchini, roast zucchini, zuc- · chini juice, zucchini wine, zucchini casserole, etc. This also explains why it was more than 100 years before Thanksgiving was made a national holiday. Asked Bpen-<ended questions abo11t a nwnber of vegegtables, most people identified zucchini as the latest prime minister of Italy. Similarly, several said kohlrabi is the president of West Germany. Rtltabaga was believed to be all ailment of the bones and joints. Swiss chard, most people said, is what hap- pens when youput a roast on the bartecue for too.long. ':'~en queried about what vegetable came to mind when they heard the phrase \zuclear war,\ S5 percent said either \Russian beets\ or \beets Russians,'' the pollsters weren\t sure which.

- Page 8 C ONOORDlENSIS, October 1, 1987 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES McDermott Brings New Program to Union Stars and Stripes- ... • Trek~ By GARY'STEI'NBAUM Have you nCJticed how in- ternational the Union College campus has become? French Professor, Helen. McDermott, has added to the heterogenous environment by initiating a new program which aids the Modern Language Depa.rtment specifically in introductory French· and Gennan ·courses. Professor McDermott felt that the Language Department needed some help from foreign students with laboratory work. She then submitted a proposal to Dean D'Andrea, and it was accepted by the Dean and ad- ministration with enthusiasm. The proposal stated that Union provide free courses, room and board as well as a monthly stipend in return for ten hours of work a week in coodinating language courses and activities. After her proposal was ap~ proved, McDermott contacted the Institute of International Education in order to find the best people suited for the job. She waded through many ap- plications and finally chose two for the job, Patrick Perivier, who is now working in the French Department and Susanne Lemmer, who is working in the German Department. Patrick Perivier is a 22-year- old Parisian .. He has a Bachelor of Arts (Iegree in linguistics from the IB'I~versity he attended in France. Patrick has also studied iii England where he became fluent ih English. In order to ree<eive his position at Union, Pat:tLckbad. to submit an applicati()n to the Minister of Educati()n in France and gCJ through a difficult interview process. Pmtric~ is now living in Webster }l()IJSe and taking .three courses like the average Union student. Be conducts the French-lQ dxill: sessions, where the' class rneets for a period. of time outside of class, and practices eonversation exer- cises. Patrhck is also involved with the French Table and French Cl'ub. Susanne Lemmer is from Dusseld!>rf, West Germany and has been teaching German to Americam businessmen in Germany 'f<ir the last three years:. Sile went through a process similar to Patrick's to secure her })<)Sition at . Union. Susanne eonducts the German drill sessioru and works in the German Department. Susanne is studying lFrencb and Hist()ry at Union} .and eventually plans to teach ;secondary school in West Germany. Both Patdek and Susanne are enjoying their stay at Union. They are i:Inpressed with many aspects a~ilit the campus, such as the physical bea11ty. and the ·- s:ports facilities. They found the s:tlldEnts and faculty to be ex• tl1eiDe1y frieadly, making P11ttick and Susanne feel 'M'~l~med at Union. They find t:lre social life on campus I.IJili&Ual because they are not l1Se4 to fraternities. They don't ,tlltcierstand how people are '',gp:r()perly\ able to socialize :and c:oll)Inunicate at these parties, ti(Jr-- \people are drWlk out of tl1eir' brains,\\t:here is a smell ()f ,J)eer and y!)u cannot walk priD!Jioerly through them.\ Both !If them prefer small get t·()gethers instead. · SllSanne and Patrick find that s;e]f ... eontained campus lends l't$-eL:f to a different Wliversity ·en\Vironment than itbey are used :to .. They see life here as \less -:r-e;alisfic\ than the \real .~;vwrld,;, and find Schenectady's offerings a bit limited com- pued to Paris and Dusseldorf. 'Bowever, they are quite in- :trigued with Crossgates Mall. \lhey were pleased to find that li.Jnloil professors had a ~ore cuillg attitude towards the st11ilents, for the professors· are .vUling to spend quality time wvlill the students, and show a tr11~ interest in their lives. \'.[ wanted to live in the c~ lll'ltry of freedom and lib~r­ ty,,\ said Susanne. \and I feel th;at I should experience living in a cotmtry ruled by President Eeagan.\ Monday: French table, l2:J() Tuesday: Italian table, 11!:·.(}0 Wednesday: Spanish table, ll:30 Thursday: German table, 1'2': ()0 Language tables will meet in the Pub at the: Go liege Center, and all members of the college community are welcome to attend. JJyLAURA CALVI Imagine a pitch,...black screen. I could draw one, but it just wowdn•t be the same,. so ttnagine it, and now that yo11.are ·at it, imagine mysterious, music too. Then suddenly you see me, Laura, Italian sophomore at Union, appearing microscopic in one of the comers of the screen and flying across it faster than the speed of light ... Wow! \These are the ad- ventures of the student Laura Galvi, her four-year mission in the New World, to search for new forms of life and boldly go where many went and did not come back from (they lo]l:ed it too mucb., I understand).\ My first adventure is. gojng to take place in one of the inost colorful, -fascinating, and at the same tin:le, frightening worlds I had and still have to deal with: the Dining Hall. . The most useful common '\being\ I met there was cer- tainly ketchup: definitely a creature when it crawls in a bottle, it looses all its dignity at · West, where everyb~dy splashes it all over 'the place. Fascinating is the us~ that \natives\ make of it: they put it on everything and sometimes, for some desperate student, it becomes the main course of the meal, spre~d on breadl()aves. (\It was the best tonight.\) I almost fQrgot its distinctive feature: it is red and this i~ . really important: it wakes you up in tile morning and cheers you up when you are eating a burger! The fundamental \alternative ·to ketchup is mustard: yCJu can use it more or less in othe same way,,.. bllt it is yellow and this makes tll.e difference. I love to mix these two essential ingre!}ients: it really makes eating anything a .colorful Terms Abroad Info: Union College Bochum Exchange 1. Spring semester applications to Vienna, Austria are due in HU 211 by October 16. 2. Students who have .IJ.W paid a deposit for Winter '8B Term Abroad Programs are jeopardizing their place in the program,. and should cciotact the Term Abroad Office at once. 3. Barbados program has scheduled meeting for Monday, October 5 at 4:30 in Tracy Rm, upstairs · Social Science Building. Israel program has scheduled meeting for Tuesday, October 6 at 4:30 in SS 11 0. • Applications still accepted.·· By JO:R.G SCBALDACH When I came to Union in the beginning ~f April this year, I did not l~11ow what I would experience llere. Now,. half a year later, ! look back to a very interestinga11d pleasant time. I am tlu German part of a new exclla:nge program bet- ween · Uni()n College and Bochum in Northrhine- Westphaliarw est-Germany. It was plan11ed and organized by an English teacher of my for- mer hi!ih school and the ProfeSS()fS of modern Languages Warde and Thomas, whom I really want to thank for making tile whole thing possible. Last yeat:\ Steven Hartman, an 87-grad\late of mechanical Engineering, was ,in . Bochum for abouttlm:ee months and had a practical C()urse at the Opel car factvty; he lived with my family du:ri.1Jg that time. This year I c3rne to Union to ~pend the sprin~ term here.The conditions 'Were really good : there was 110 tuition, free books and meal;s, and even pocket money. I lived with the Richardsmn family in Nisk~yuna; we had a very pleasant time together. I am a math and physics major, so. I had cllosen some -courses which I thcmght could somehow lle equivalent to wllat I would diP in Germany. But they turnetl out not to be ap- propriate: rn Germany pb.ysics and especially mathematics are taught ()ll a pretty high level even in tile first semesters. Studyingtlhose is a fulltime job; there is no.liberallearning. But I vr11s able to change classes and I finally had a nice math and tfurEe interesting physics Ct()llrses. There is one thing 117hich I espeeially like about slt\L(iying at Union College, J>'f()Dably because it is quite differe:pt than a German Ullivertsity. Union is a small cdlege (my own university has a bout 30,000 students) and so tlh~re is a really close contact l)etween students and porrJfessors. My experience is tll<lt the professors here truly t .. :r to work fgr the benefit of tlleir students and are willing to s11pport them in whatever ooatter. But I also think that many si11dents here do not recognize tll!it, they do not make use of tlleir opportunities. If I had to ,J)ay some thousand dollars each terlll, I would .try to get. as much ()tUt of the academic activities as 'iJOSSible. I had the great opportunity to j!larticipate in some physics research. The result was that I s:pent the whole summer . at Ull.ion and worked .... w1th Prdessors Baksay and Magalliz and some other s:tt~dents on high energy physics projects. I enjoyed this tune ve.y much, especially because .t.llblgs like that are riot possible f ot:\ undergraduate students in Geimany. Finally, I travelled across the US f()r a month and saw some of the fantastic National Parks, · ..wllich are indredibly wonderful an <I impressive. But now my time in the USA i.s over, and naturally I look ' forward to going home again. Hopefully, this exchange can be continued and be an established .p,art of Union's international activites. Finally, I want to thank the people of Union, especially those of the physics department, where I spent so much- time, and my friends among the students here, whom i[ will hopefully !lleet again. For it was you who made my stay the wonderful experience wll.ich T will always remember. Yoga Class ery ~uesday &6:30 in the exercise room of. the gym. ··Beginner~ welcome experience, and wakes up the artist in you. · Peanut butter was the essence of a,nother amazing adventure: see, 'in Italy we don't have that tnaliy pea?Uts (we ,call them \Amencan nuts\) so nopea.nut butter ... l know, for som.e aspect . ..; we .are a really uncivilized society. Anyway, .the sight wa$ ap- pealing and exotic ( f()r a curious Italian, at least), so I h~d to try it. I wouldn't listen, . though., to my American friends who were Warning me Oil the insidious characteristics .of that matter; Jelly with It?! No way, -t<io weird, maybe ne~t time ..• So, when l got my mouth cemented . by that wonderful, peanutty .stuff, I deeply un- derst{)od the reason for that . unusual and tasty :combination. It is to be noticed that I have since then; been addicted to it and that I underwent serious withdrawal symptoms when I wenU(J back toitaly. Justtwo words on some of the most mysterious creatures generated in a dining hall: puddings and jello. i. really enjoy playing with them: tapioca pudding always has me wonder: ''Is it really supposed to look like this! \ I like puddings, they would be a nice additi()n to my national cuisiffe. I really cannot cope with jello, though. l don't know, maybe it is because it moves too much, or beeause of my cultural gastronomic . backg\ound: we have more or less-·'the same thing in Italy, but it's salty, not fruit flavored, and we· put chicken or ham in it. This thought really does not help me .in apprec.iating the undoubted values of jello. I guess I will never understand what 1 am ·missing. · I .have to add a comment due to national pride on meatballs: once and for all, they dCJ not exist in Italy! Pretty sad, ah? Living i~ a foreig_n. country is an amazmg experience, ex- tremely fun.vy, interesting and educative. 'Being a \stranger\ to this part of the earth is certainly very hard at times, because lots of things are dif- ferent or new, but it is great if a foreigner is willing to learll and understand the \natives/' and let other people learn the foreign country and habits~ This is the aim of th:e In- ternational House, of I.S.U. and of the International Clubs on campus. Tllis is why I am writing· now: everyday par.; ticulars can be so interesting and new (yes, even West and tapioca puddings!). I W()nder how many common things of my C()untry you would find weird, starting with the Italian-Alllerican fast f()od: I bet. you would not recognize a cheeseburger. . Enoagh for the dining hall universe. See you soon in some other part of your \world to ''boldly\ investigate! •••••••••••• .International Features • • is a new section • • in Concordiensis,.. • • • • the purpose of this • • section is to provide • • a forum for • • • • International Issues. • • .If e~nyone has • • ideas or is · • \ • • • interested in writing • • for this section • •plecase call Gary x6825-• •••••••••••• ' i 1 l ] l

CONCORIJIENSIS, October J,. 1987 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY •, _H ' America/NASA Finished in Space? By ALANDESALVIO A lot of talking has been going on about America in space, especially with regards to what many people are calling America's loss of initiative in space and her leadership role. I felt an article addressing the facts of the situation was in order. Perhaps a few eyes will be opened, and a few old opinions refreshed. First a few general facts: The Soviet Union put the first ar- tificial object into orbit,. the· first man in space :(.and the first woman in . space, for that matter), -and the first space station in space, their Salyut station. Gr.anted, the Salyut is small, but they have put many up. The very large and im- pressive· .Ainerican Skylab was an afterthought. of the Apollo program, received a couple of crews, and then America watched as its orbit slowly decayed and it finally disin- tegrated during re-entry. Many Salyut .stations are still in orbit, waiting until they are needed again. Soviet cosmonauts hold all of the orbit endurance records-by a huge margin. One cosmonaut has spent in excess of three months in space <>n two different occasions, all in ' those supposedly pitiful Salyut stations. The Soviets annually outstrip the rest of the world combined in yearly space shots, by a factor of two or. better, and leave the rest of the world far behtnd in yearly tons to orbit. The common returns to these facts are that the Soviets use inefficient kerosene .fuels that require large rockets to lift a payload that would be carried by a much smaller liquid oxygen-hydrogen or solid fuel Western rocket, and that the Soviets don't have the miniaturization and electronics technologies of the West and so their payloa<ls are much larger than an equivalent Western payload. It's true that the Soviets use kerosene rocketS. They launch year round from Siberia-like sites and their rockets must perform under unbelievable weather con- dltions without failures. Kerosene rockets are .also cheap to mass produce, unlike sc>lidor LOX/Liirockets, which require special ha11dling and the latter type even require retrigeration facilities on the launch pad. The latest Soviet bo()ster, tae Ene~;gia,. is in- tenQ.ed to carry tbe Soviet Sht1ttle and other very heavy payloads, and is fueled witb LOX/LH, using borrowed American Saturn 5 technQlogy. American;. on the ()ther hand, seemed galvanized to conquer the solar system in tb.e sixties and early seventie$, but Apollq was the cubnination of several plans and there were no plaus for any conthiuation. Kennedy put all the funding into mction and no other president followed him up. NASA was barely able to fund Skylab, using a leftover Apollo booster and third stage, and later was unable to launch a minor orbit readjustment mission to save the useful station,. NASA was forced into fundinR minor (very minor) unmanned planetary exploration missions, the fruits of which we have been seeing recently (Voyagers, Vikings), each of which cost $200 million, mainly for the booster and its launch. The cost . cutting measures forced on NASA resulted in its next big project, the Space . Shuttle 1 being hopelessly (three years) ov:er schedule and' alrtlost shelved. To save it, NASA stripped funds from all other sectors of its operations (especially un- manned planetary exploration, and even basic research}. Recent history inclades one of the major space science events of the century, the flyby of comet Halley, at which the Soviets had two probes, the Japanese had two probes, and even the fledgling European Space Agency had a probe, launched on their Ariane rocket from South America. America was not present at Halley. · Recently three unrelated failures grounded AmeriCa's entire booster fleet, from the heavy Shuttle, through the mediwn military Titan 340, to the light McDonnell Douglas Delta. We have now recovered use of both the Titans and the Deltas, and are progressing . successfully towards Shuttle launch, but the Amel'ican Space Pr()gtam may never recover. My Summer \Vacation\ at Union ByMARCUSDREW Vassa! College I spent. thiS past summer par:ticipating . in Physics Research at . Union College. Most of . you are probably saying: \So we already spend three-quarters .of the year here, why would you wapt to spend yo1,1r summer here as well?\ Why? Because I spend three- quarters of the year at Vassar College, where I go to school. ·Why then am I doing research at Union? . .- · It began in March when Professor Baksay of the Physics Department came to Vassarto.g!vea talk,on \Proton Decay\ ...and how ~.his work relates to it. At that time, I mentioned I would be interested in participating in a research project over the summer. In JWJe, I received a call from him inviting me. to join his research group along with Professor Rich Magahil. I started. June 15th working in the High Pressure Lab of the Physics Department with another Physics Major, Jim Poirier. · 011r work deals with the operation of Particle Detectors at High Presstire. We are developing a prototype of a High Pressure Time Projection Chamber. A TPC works using charged partiCles to ionize. a gas, such as· argon surrollilding many thin wires. The ionized .particles drift until they touch the wires. The charge of the particles dr.ift until they touch the wires. The charge of the particles creates a .plllse along the wire which are coll~cted and analyzed to give a 3-D image of the incoming particle (the energy plus momentllnl ). Using high pressure allows for a lot of particles to be placed in a small volllme~ This is espcially useful for HEP which often requires large numbers of .particles to perform experiments. . The highl~ght of our research this slliillner was bringing our chamber up to 500 .atm. I would like to thank Jim;. Tony, Kat, Carolyn and. Friendlys for making the sumr.net memorable• for about 18 months America could not .put a payload into low earth orbit. · People in the industry are now demanding some sort of leadership decision from the Reagan administration, since many of NASA's problems call be traced to bad management and/or misconununicatioll between the adminstration and NASA, especial1y between Reagan's presidential science advisor,. the supposed· liaison between Reagan and the science community, and NASA's director. But something else is wrong. Reagan is willing to spe11d money-\he has· earmarked $2.1 billion from Air Force funds to build the Challenger replacement, and since the disaster the approved· NASA budget has grown by about $1 billion a year, to a projected fisc.al '88 budget of $9 .. 8 billion. NASA is hoping to get $11 billion in fiscal '89. Reagan is publicly very supportive of 1 the space program, witness his Space Station speech, but the support of the administration in Congress, and, more im- portantly, some sort of drive within the administration to lead NASA, is non-existent. The Space Station may not get funded; at least not as a civilian facility. Physics majors spread laughter and liquid nitrogen at expo. Weird. Science The Soviet Union is the premier spacefari.ng nation on this planet. Ninety percent of their launches are military. John F. Kennedy must be spinniqg in his grave. - ' $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ The Department of Physics has an open position for a student qualified for the colfege's work/study program. If you are i.nterested, please contact Cindy BoUck, personnel, ext. 6108 or the Physics Department, x6254 $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ By PETER VALERIO amd JENNlFERKOVE Undoubtedly a main at- traction of the Student Activ.ities Expo on Monday, the Society of Physics Students awed onlookers with their numerous displays of physical phenomena. Members ·et- nertained vJewers by sub- merging everything from flowers to apples into liquid nitrogen, and tllen to spec- tators' dismay-shattering them like glass! Also featured in this presentation was a hologram, a Van DeGraff \spark\ generator, slinkies and a conservation of momentum device .(the desktop-bouncing * * * The Science and Technology page is back, by popular demand. I would like to thank John Bergeron, the previous editor, for having done a terrific job. I am taking over his position and hope that, with your help, I caa . keep this section interesting. My name is Jennifer Kove and I am a sophomore Physies major. I plan to work closely with the We had some new ideas for this page. There will be a weekly literary feature in- troduced in this section. Students and teachers are strongly\ encouraged to con- tribute their comments, recommendations or reviews on science related topics they have encountered in the media. This includes nonfiction or fiction, - articles, movies, television shows, etc ... In addition, there will also be MOUIE sphere thing). Other crowd pleasers included the per- petually Wlfolding plastic toy, a gyroscope and miniature toy ·cars. Active at the demo were physics majors Stu, Miki, Tony, Jennifer, Peter, Paul, Jorg, Zoltan, Barth and others. Also present was Professor Laszlo Baksay who shocked us all with his blatant disregard for the Karate Club's welfare when he insisted on splashing them with liquid nitrogen! On the whole the afternoon was enjoyable and the entire exposition benefitted by the enthusiastic response of the campus. Readers * * * science, math, and engineering departments to keep you in- formed and updated on current events and endeavors in those fields. Union College is well- known for its outstanding science, and engineering programs and this page should acquaint readers with the ac- complishments in these areas in particular at Union. a profile _ featuring a Union student, faculty member, visiting speaker or other in- teresting personality. Your personal interviews or suggestions are welcome. Please send your con- tributions to Jennifer Kove Science and Technology editor' Concordienses, Box or just drop them off at the Con- cordiensis mailbox, 3rd floor, College Center. SOCIETY OF PHYSICS STUDENTS SOCIAUMOVI E FRIDAY, .OCT. 2, '87 STEINMETZ 106 7:00-7:30 REFRESHMENTS 7:30- 9:00 MOVIE \CRERTION OF THE UNIU£RSE\ ALL ARE WELCOME! -PJ:lysics . Colloquium \What is Muon-ness? -- A Dectective Story\ Professor Peter Nemethy Department of .Physics New York University Time: 4:45 Place: Steinmetz Hall, Room 106 Date: Thursday, October 1, 1987 Refreshments will be, seiVed at 4:30 All Are Welcome!

:i ·. .\ ' ,. Olonrnrbirasis FowrJ,J 111 I i11ton Col. 1877 --------~-- ~~~ .... _. .... _.It Late Ideas. You can leam a lot about Union while wandering around after business hours looking for assistance. 1rl the nonnal insanity that marks a Tuesday night at C()llcordiensis, we wound up needing some help from Secarity, or Physical Plant, or someone like that. :But \It's after 4:30; the office is closed; we can't help you until tomorrow~~ is wllat we heard So, desperately. this editor stumbled toward the lights in a building we never see- ... the ·boiler rooms, you know, that big building across from the rink, you park in front of it. And sure enough, a second shift maintenartce worker came through. Later on in the evening, after the problem was solved, we got a chance to sit around and talk in the ·building. Del's be~n doing his job for twenty :Years, here and there, and he's not only proud of the work he does, he enjoys it. He should. Although he doesn't have a college degree, his work takes more expertise than most of liS will ever have in ours. He operates, tests .• modifies, and improves Union's heating and cooling systems. As a one-time engineer, this editor saw the complexity of his wor14 and realized that it was something college doesn't prepare you for~ The maze of valves md switches controls a central heating system for this campus that bums as much fuel in one c:lay as a house does in two years. That figure could be worse, too. Right n.cw, the staff is testing the various boilers for efficiency and safety. Del said that one boiler normally operates at its rated &0%, but now it's a little below. But, just as with last year, .he can bring it back up. Two or three percent, times that much fuel.. .. He's a guy about our parents' age, and ne•s. got a job that takes real skill and provides desetved satisfaction. And we don't nonnally even hear qf these people, or giv:e them much regard. But Del said two things: \Students are really good if you give them a chance,\ and \I just enjoy sh{)wing this to people and talking about it: .. And though I hadn't planned on it, I enjc)'ed listening. So next time you're w8.lking around at night, take a look at those lighted windows. And if you need a hmld, you can find it in unusual places. We've got some people here that are for real, with talents and concerns that we don't even realize. President Who? Recently an editor from a local publication inquired about the various political group~ at Union. It was an uncomfortable feeling to find myself making excuses for the lack of political activity on campus. Here we are, eligible voters, with the election campaign for ol!r country's Presidential candidacy on the horizon and it seems as though Union is the center of a political black()ut. How can a democracy remain healthy if it's up and coming intellectual elite are unable to make an educated vote in our most important elections? Do Union College students even vote? Whatever happened to the Young Republicans? OJ the Union College Democrats (was that their name?) There is much talk about improving the intellectual atmosphere at Union, well here's a place that could definitely use improvement. As of now there aren't any p()litical groups accounted for in the Student Forum budget sheets. For one thing the College could attempt to increase political awareness by bringing dynamic political lecturers to campus. What about a political debate session? When the next Presidential election anive ~t's make sure that we can make an intelligent vote. Questions, Comments!; Concerns? A representative from Student Forum will be available in Room ·, 301 in the College Center every ·Monday thru Thursday from 12 till4. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board . of c.oncordiensis COMM-ENTARIES Administration Should Listen to Students To· the Editor: One of the complaints raised repeatedly about Union :was the students' lack of pride in the school. Such behavior mani• fests itself in vandalism and · general disregard for the cam- pus. Beyond the attack that such actions violate certain standards of good behavior; administration has no. grounds for criticizing the lack. of pride among some students. · Pride is instilled by an in- stitution; it is a feeling of recognition that one is part of a greater whole. Respect is not something that is arbitrarill granted because one is enrolled in a particular school, rather, that is discipline. Certainly rules of good conduct, .such as , obeying quiet hours and not damaging public property; are strictly adhered to in militaristic environments; however, I do not believe that this is the adn}inistration's ultimate goal, although, I have my doubts from time to time. The problem is that the ad- ministration bas failed to ·provide studentsW.th. a sense .of pride. Of course. I could ,get out my flourescent pen and un- derline the Sti'engths and, achievements oflJnion ·listed in \What Are the, Strengths of Union?\ (Sept. 24), but it generally consists, of ad• ministrators patting thetn• selves on the bade for having hired an excellEnt faculty and for having very good facilities .• Yes, these are .things to be proud of, but .tile general con- sensus that I hav-e seen among students .is that their voices are not being heard1 and thus, we have had no lllput in these successes. How can one be proud of an :itlstitution that ignores those wh()< it is providing for? The respo11se that I have typically heard. is; that students' views are not overlooked. . {amrta Freud calls .this r.eac• tioQmdenial). 'This migbt .be true; h10wever., -it does not quell that tbe belief that it is not, especially when evi<lence seems to 'pl:\ove the contrary. Greater .efforts need to be . taken ·by atdndn·istration t-o. assure stucieatsthat their voices are, iii feet, 'being heard, if this is the ·cm;e. 1'his can be :achieved,. ,if tbe administration truly has faith in its students~ by instead of bEcoming more stringent, stu.d'Ents are granted more fl:'eet!oms. Administration may bte ,surprised to fin(); that when tl\'el'ited as Clear thinking in- ,div-idllals with valuable OJJillions,. students may almo$1; ~-ehave in manner often a:sf;odated with dignified hllllllarJs. This has been the case at rnore prestigiOius univer .. ~fiti!Els, some of whieh are still sta11ding. SiNcerely, Cevin Soling Skellar Student Managers Speak Out -------------------- To the Editor: We, as workers at the' Rathskellar, would like to join the rest of the campus in welcoming beer back to the Skellar on Friday and Saturday nights. It has been a long wait filled With constant system changes, menu changes and pbysical changes. It is great to finally have some people besides us in the Skellar during the night hours. However, there are some misconceptions or possibly misinformation that must be cleared up. There will, ' indeed, be stlldent workel\s working in tlle Skellar on weekend nights .. 'These students will be serving bod, and will in no way, be COllllected with the age checking or the sale of alcohol. We would also like to. remind the administrat{on, especially Dean Mamm-.Jia, that the Rathskellar has been student run since its inception and has been highly Sllccessful ever since. If there has ~n a problem in ,it n()t being operated professio~ally\ we were Wiaware .of it .. We sincerel~ hl()pe: that the remat:\ks referred to ill last week's article were eitlher taken out of coptext . or til~ words not chosen carefully. Vfle :find it very hard to have ))!Vh:le ill· oijf work. when our atdministrators have .a dim riew or· do not appreciate what .. vwe: d(). Sincerely, The,Rathskellar student Manag~rs Aaron Carrel Su! Fitzpatrick . Ka~hyKqrt~ Bruee Lawton Craig Ratner Sportswriting Should be Impartial· To the Editor: Once again I must address the issue of journalistic on- professionalism in the Con- cordiensis. The 9-24 article about the football team's loss to Rochester, \Dutchmen Fall Short\ was startlingly opinionated and condescending. A sports news report has the function of telliilg what hap- pened, not commenting on it. The reporter gave some gems Df helpful advice to Coach Bagnoli. After reporting the number of penalties, the l\eporter stated, \Coach Bagnoli must teach his players how to use better judgment when it comes to committing costly penalties.\ I'll bet the coach \never thoqght of tpat! Then the re(lorter decided to ''console\ the losing Dutclunen and give some more en- couraging words of ~isdom: ''Hopefully Al Bagnoli's Dut- chmen will be able to recover from this hiUlliliating loss at the hands of a team which they should have defeated.'' It was the reporter's opinion tht:lt the loss was hwniliating and the Dutchmen should have defeated the Yellow Jackets, not FACT. The reporter concluded his · I\eport with a final bit of advice All Letters to the Editor must . , be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of_gOOd ta,ste. for the coach and the team: Hif Coach Bagnoli plans on being involved in post-season play, 1le and his players must figure out how to get ba!!k on the winning track.\ How perceptive! The .point of this letter is not to insult the reporter or any of the editors on the staff. Instead, I hope to point ·(JUt that news should be strictly NEWS and editorials. sho11ld be in columns Like '\Not in the Box Score.\ It is confusing and insulting to re~ders when reporters choose .to give their own opinions in news art~~les, and that practice sbCluld be stopped in Con. col'ltiensis in orde~? to provide Ulllbiased, more professional news reportin&· Sincerely, Colleen Adinolfi

. Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS, October· 1, 1987 (ll,nttfllrbirnsis COMMENT ARIES Foundld a1 limon CoJ. ltl77 ------------ ----~ Late Ideas. You can learn a lot about Union while wandering around after business hours looking for assistance. In the nonnal insanity that marks a Tuesday night at Concord,iensis, we wound up needing some help from Security, or Physical Plant, or someone like that. But \It's after 4:30; the office is closed; we can't help you until tomorrow\ is what we heard. So, desperately, this editor stumbled toward the lights in a building we never see--the boiler rooms, you know, that big building across from the rink. you park in front of it. And sure enough, a second shift maintenance worker came through. Later on in the evening, after the problem was solved, we got a chance to sit around and talk in the building. Del's be~n doing his job for twenty years, here and there, and he's not only proud of the work he does, he enJoys it He should. Although he doesn't have a college degree, his work takes more expertise than most of us will ever h.ave in ours. He operates, tests, modifies, .and improves Union's heating and cooling systems. As a one-time engineer, this editor saw the complexity of his work, and realized that it was something college doesn't prepare you for. The maze of valves and switches controls a central heating system for this campus that bums as much fuel in one day as a h()use does in two years. That figure could be worse, too. Right now, the staff is testing the various boilers for efficiency and safety. Del said that one boiler normally operates at its rated 80%, but now it's a little below. But, just as with last year, he can brin,g it back up. Two or three percent, times that much fuel.. .. He's a guy about our parents' age, and he's got a job that takes real skill and provides deserved satisfaction. And we don't non:nally even hear of these people, or give them much regard. But Del said two things: \Students are really good if you give them a chance,\ and \I just enjoy showing this to people and talking about it.\ And though I hadn't planned on it, I enjoyed listening. So next time you're walking around at night, take a look at those lighted windows. And if you need a hand, you can :find it in unusual places. We've got some people here that are for real, with talents and concerns that we don't even realize. President Who? Recently an editor from a local publication inquired about the various political groups at Union. It was an uncomfortable feeling to find myself making excuses for the lack of political activity on campus. Here we are, eligible voters, with the election campaign for our country's Presidential candidacy on the horizon and it seems as though Union is the center of a political blackout. How can a democracy remain healthy if it's up and coming intellectual elite are unable to make an educated vote in our most important elections? Do Union College students even vote? Whatever happened to the Young Republicans? Or the Union College Democrats (was that their name?) There is much talk about improving the intellectual atmosphere at Union, well here's a place that could definitely use improvement. As of now there aren't any political groups accounted for in the Student Forum budget sheets. For one thing the College could attempt to increase political awareness by bringing dynamic political lecturers to campus. What about a political debate session? When the next Presidential election arrive ~t's make sure that we can make an intelligent vote. Questions, Comments, Concerns? A representative from Student Forum wilL be avaiLable in Room 301 in the College Center every Monday thru Thursdayfrom 12 till4. letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Administration Should Listen to Students To the Editor: One af the complaints raised repeatedly about Union was the students' lack of pride in the school. Such behavior mani- fests itself in vandalism and general disregard for the cam- pus. Beyond the attack that such actions violate certain standards of good behavior, administration has no grounds for criticizing the lack af pride among some students. Pride is instilled by an in- stitution; it is a feeling of recognition that one is part of a greater whole. Respect is not something that is arbitrarily granted because one is enrolled in a particular school, rather, that is discipline. Certainly rules of good conduct, such as obeying quiet hours and not damaging public property, are strictly adhered to in militaristic environments; however, I do not believe that this is the administration's ultimate goal, although, I have my doubts fr()m time to time. The problem is that the ad~ ministration has failed to provide stade11tS With a sense of pride. Of coarse I could get out my flourescent pen and tm- derline tire strengths an~ achievements of Union listed in ''What Are the Strengths of Union?\ (Sept. 24), but it general:ly consists of ad- ministrators patting them- selves on the back for having hired an excellent faculty and for having very good facilities. Yes, these are things to be proud of, but the general con- sensus that I have seen among students is that their voices are not being heard, and thus, we have had no input in these successes. How can one be proud af an institution that ignores those who it is providing for? The response that I have typically heardis that students' views are not overlooked. (Anna Freud calls this reac- tion denial). This might be true; however, it does not quell that the belief that it is not, especially when evidence seems to prove the contrary. Greater efferts need to be taken by ad~ninistration to assure students that their voices are, in fact, being heard, if this is the case. This can be achieved, if the administratian truly has faith in its students, by instead of becoming more stringent, students are granted more freedoms. Administration may be surprised to find that when treated as clear thinking in.- dividuals with valuable opinions, students may almost behave in manner often associated with dignified hwnans. This has been the case at more prestigious univer- sities, some of which are still standing. Sincerely, Cevin Soling Skellar Student Managers Speak Out ---------------------- To the Editor: We, as workers at the· Rathskellar, would like to join the rest of the campus in welcoming beer back to the Skellar on Friday and Saturday nights. It has been a long wait filled with constant system changes, menu changes and physical changes. It is great to finally have some people besides us in the Skellar during the night hours. However, there are some misconceptions or possibly misinformation that must be cleared up. There will, indeed, be student workers working in the Skellar on weekend nights. These students will be serving food, and will in no way, be connected with the age checking or the sale of alcohol. We would also like to remind the administration, especially Dean Mammola, that the Rathskellar has been student rWl since its inception and has been highly successful ever since. If there has been a problem in it not being operated professionally, we were unaware of it. We sincerely hope that the remarks referred to in last week's article were either taken out of cantext or the words not chosen carefully. We find it very hard to have pride in our work when our administrators have a dim view or do not appreciate what we do. Sincerely, The Rathskellar Student~anagers Aaron Carrel Sue Fitzpatrick Kathy Kurtz Bruce Lawton Craig Ratner Sportswriting Should be Impartial To the Editor: Once again I must address the issue of journalistic on- professionalism in the Con- cordiensis. The 9-24 article about the football team's loss to Rochester, \Dutchmen Fall Short\ was startlingly opinionated and condescending. A sports news report has the function of telling what hap- pened, not commenting on it. The reporter gave some gems of helpful advice to Coach Bagnoli. After reporting the number of penalties, the reporter stated, \Coach Bagnoli must teach his players how to use better judgment when it comes to committing costly penalties.\ I'll bet the coach never thought of that! Then the reporter decided to \console\ the losing Dutchmen and give some more en- couraging words of ~isdom: \Hopefully Al Bagnoli's Dut- chmen will be able to recover from this humiliating loss at the hands of a team which they should have defeated .. \ It was the reporter's opinion that the loss was hwniliating and the Dutchmen should have defeated the Yellow Jackets, not FACT. The reporter concluded his report with a final bit of advice All Letters to the Editor mLJst be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are · libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. for the coach and the team: \If Coach Bagnoli plans on being involved in post-season play, he and his players must figure out how to get back on the winning frack.\ How perceptive! The poi.llt of this letter is not to insult the reporter or any of the editors on the staff. Instead, I hope to point out that news should be strictly NEWS and editorials .should be in colW1llls like \Not in the Box Score.\ It is confusing and insulting to readers when reporters choose to give their own opinions in news articles, and that practice should be stopped in Con- cordiensis in order to provide unbiased, more professional news reporting. Sincerely, Colleen Adinolfi . .. . ...., •.. ·• ·.·~.· ·.; .. 12:·•.·.·· .. · .. '111DIAJ o.'~' .· .. .ltl\L L ~· < \\~i'll¢1~~ . • . :. . Editors-in Chief Davtd Gulliver, lee Ann Schmidt News Editots Finn!!. Shukrl. It Raed Whidden Fea~. EditOrS Marjorie Hoffer, Cathy Markes l'ntematimal Features Editor G~ttY Steiroaum Science lkliror Jennifer Kane . Commexttaty Page Editors Stua.tt S,ands Arts Editors Jim MacLaughlin, Jan Goldstein' Campus Page Editors Athena Ling. Kelley Parle Spotts EditOrs Chris ltinckley. Andrew Mitler Advertising Edi~ Jacld :Sen, Lisa Ordower Bilsmes$ Managers Beth Goodsmith, Robin. Jaoobson Phot~ Edit;o.:rs Alan Klapper, Rebecca Smith S1lbsctiptit'ln Bdirors John Bergeron,. Robert M<lOowatt Honorary Faculty Advisor C. WiUiant Huntley STAFF: Matteo Coveri Ahbondio.Jeff Albrecht, Tammy Barsamian. Missy Real;. Elizabeth Berliner, Gail :Blumenfeld, Lisa Brown, Kris :Bumham, Laura Calvi, Joy Cybut. Chidsey Dickson, Wu Yu Dong; Julia Easott, Amy Elizabe.th. Dina Q()la:;, Ilana Hand. Moniqu~ Ha:rrlSQn, Chris Hat1matm. Kathy Hawke, Debra Honig, Alberto laia. Lott~i.ne Jarvis. Lma Leung, Melissa Levine, Ed Lin, Maty Beth Manning, Tim Matthews, Vitginie Mello. Tim Mical, Leslie Motcls. Stacy Jlapa, Liz :Perkowitz., Nick Piccirillo. Tracey Pryluck, Michelle R.uelos, KriSten Santos, Jo-rg Sohaldaeh, Ezra Shennan., Charlie Slotnik. C<»mad Tatge. Mark Zim.menna.n, Wendy Ziffiml!lrman. · Carolyn Zuooll. CONCORI>lENSlS is publoished. every Thursday by the student . body of tJtli.on College. Schenectady. New Y Ol.'k 12308:; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publlcaiton. :me., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (601). .563~8339. Subscription r.ate: $24 per y~ar. delivered anywhere ln the Unit~d States. Coneudlensls subscribes to the tnmtOll~g.ie Press (IP). Of'tice Telephone(S18) 37<>.6155. -:.

Why Union Dropped the SAT Ed. Note: This piece ha~ already run i11 $\vert# papers, incl·utfing the PhiladelpMa Inquirer, the Allentown Free Press and the Hartford Cou..rant. By TERRY WEINER and JAMESUNDE~WOOD 'Early· this spring ·we asked seven outstanding applicants visiting Union CQllege, \How many of you took a pr-ep course designed to improve your score on the SAT'?\ All seven an- swered \yes.'' One even said Ulat his high school e!lcouraged students to take prep·C()urses in the sophmote year t() improve scores on the prellininary version ofthe test (tlte PSAT), which plays a part in the awarding of Nation.al M'erit Scholarships. Because Union faculty were then debating whether to continue requiring applicants to submit · S.AT sc.ore~, the students' coin.nlents helped confirm a growing conviction that the SAT ·had become a powerful tail wagging the educational dog. Originally tol.J.ted as a means .of identifying abilty unmasked by differences in preparation, the test had . come to symbolize ~ profound distortion of tne meaning of education. Students alld parents were spending tremendous amounts of energy on tile dubious quest for th~ highest possible score on one three-hour test. ' Later that spring, Union decided that submitting the SAT score would become an option for applicants. Our ac- tion came because we con- Cluded that the SAT was lacking in several fUIIdaillental elements. · One elementis the very word \aptitude/' - Academie:-ability ean mean an existing capacity to do academic work\'\\'\generally described as \achiev~ment'' a potential capacity t<» dQ such work....,..generally described as \aptitude.\ The latter implies that an \aptitude\ test measures a fixed, innate quality and is insensitive to the kind of schooling an individual has bad. Indeed, the SAT began as a way to reduce the effects of inequality between~'g-ood\ high schools and those rur.al or poor high schools that did not have such advanced placement or honors courses. In fact, the SAT does measure vocabulary, rea(ting com~ prehension, and quantitative reasoning; in fact, itis sensitive to an indiVidual's schooling. Further, the SAT doesn't measur~ what we meant by \aptitude\ any better than conventional achievement tests, and there is evidence that achievement tests in languages, science, · and mathematics cor-relate better with college .perfonnance than does the SAT. Asecond ·element we consider is the role .of the SAT in American c\llture as a symbol of intelligence. To be sure, the College Board does not claim that the SAT is an intelligance test, but little has been done to . dissuade the .public from that interpretation. As such a symbol, the test does · great daii\age to the self-esteem of thQusands of students. One of the most interesting essays our Admissions Office recieved this year was from an applicant describing his e:x.- perience with \aptitude\ testing. Five years ago, ap- plying to private high schools, he had taken an \aptitude\ test and finished in the 44th per- centile-<lespite being an ''A\ student. He did get into a school and went on to earn a variety of academic and extracurricular honors. But in the SAT, he wound up, as he said,' 'an 1160 competing in a classroom- of 1330's.\ ''I hope Union College will take a chance on me,\ he wrote. (We did.) A third element in our decision was feeling that the SAT is· not entirely fre.e- of cultural bias. Coupled.with that is bias introduced by the use of preparatory courses by thousands of students, most of them.affluent. If the SAT actually measures some \innate capacity,\ these coaching coi.lrses would have no impact. But tbe evidence in- dicates that at the minimum they can raise some scores enough to possibly make a -difference in college admission decisions; it is likely they raise scores a good deal for those who can afford more or better coaching. ThllS an SAT that started as an attempt to reduce inequality seems to be . having the opposite effect. The well-docwnented lower scores on SAT tests for blacks and otber minorities simply cannot be explained .away by unequal access to coaching. Rather, these differences are an indicator ·Of the vast gap in the ·educational resources available to these groups and to \the minority.\ The differences in scores harm the colleges admission process as well as the self-esteem of minority students, who discriminate against themselves by not applying to selective colleges with high ''advertised mean\ SAT results. For women, lower scores are primarily a result of their underrepresentation in math and science co11fses in high school. One would expect that on this basis alone there would be some difference in math scores by sex. What disturbed some at Union, however,was that the national average score for women is lower than the average for men in the verbal part of the SAT as well as the math section-even though high school girls generally achieve higher grades than boys. It is bizarre that a test designed to reduce inequality rewards males with easier access to scholarships and college admission even though women outperform them in the classroom. · We recognize that the ability of any one college to have an impact on the emphasis on the SAT is limited. But we wanted to make a· statement aoout the value of hard work and achievement; we wanted to indicate to those who had been the ·victims of discrimination that Union is interested in them; and we wanted to send a message ~() those who ad- minister these tests that the goal of national testing has to be reconsidered instruments must be carefully reviewed. . In the end, we were convinced that making the SAT optional would enhance our ability to attract students with the at- tributes we value highly-a genuine thirst for knowledge., (intellectual curiosity, the ability and commitment to reach a high level of achievement, and the desire to contribute to a commtmity of diver5e interests and talents. Terry Weiner, ProfeKsor of Sociology, and Jim Underwood, Professor of Political Science, hal'e been active in Union College's admissions efforts. A Sense of Community . By MICHAEL HILLER The Concordy, in the Glasnost tradition,. has requested several outspoken students and professors to comment on Union College's positives and negativ.es in !Jopes of stimulating a divergence of views within the co-llege com- mWlity~ My decision to accede to this request was IJarticUlarly critical as I will, inevitably, criticize many of the groups Whose very support is fWI- damental to the suc10ess of my office as President of the Student·Forwn. Yet, I would be neglecting the duties of that office if I were to waste this opportunity to eJCp1·ess my dissatisfaction with these very groups.; and, conversely to express my appreciation forthe support ofothers. So. I begin mY statement with the un- derstanding that my criticisms are a- reflection on what has happened in the past and what _should be avo~~ed in tbe future. The single most important ninety-one percent student feature which. is significantly disapproval; with the phone .lacking from Union College is a system agreements contracted sense of commWlity. How often, without so much as one student during the past three years serving on the committee which have · we found, the ad- finalized the deal, etc. And, ministration, the facility, and from the administration-faculty the students squabbling over point of view, the students may issues-squabbling which has appear as self~interested four- taken the form of idle chatter by year patrons whose interest lies two sides who refuse to listen to solely in the short term. each other. In an intellectual O.K.-The interests of these community such as Union, . groups rest at different points fdeals of educati<m and on the spectrum. At the least, stimulation of thought, should we are sure of the fact that be considered' the highest of Union is a place for education priorities. This, is ,generally the and thought. case; however, the manner in So, where does this leave us? Which this priority or end is to Ah yes, a solution to the be achieved is commonly the problem of -factionalsim and area disputed. Thus, the so- mistrust within our college called adversarial relationships community. Now that we have created by the tense situation addressed the problem, we described above, begin to form. ought to resolve it. Here are a . - few ideas: From a stadent perspective, 1. All these groups ought to this feeling of mistrust of the work together-realizing that admini$ration !lfld faculty is our interests may be slightly quite under•standable with Gel- different, but also realizing that Time being passed despite a there is a common goal to Page 11·· COMMENT ARIES The ·Role qf the· Col-lege By BRYON NICHOLS I will focus ·my comments here on the \heart\ of 'Coll~ge\s role, i.e., the education <Jf students and the spectrUill .<Jf faculty-student relationships that are part of . this. Ill rn:y judgment, what Union CollegE does best is to permit and ell· courage both students 1tnd faculty rnembersto exploren ew forms of .learning. 'rhe: existence of IEF monies, .th.e ()']' major, extensive Terms Al:ar()ad and internship opportunities, and .the Dana grants for stude11t summer research with fa<:lllt;y members are importa11t examples of an insitut:io11al comnrltment to individllal' in· novation in academic life. Union College is a remarkallly flexible institution despite its hoary tradition, and its willingness to innovate has le:d to some exciting ac;ademic opportunities for students .and faculty alike. What we do least well, in :my judgment, is to spread that same kind of intellectaal fer• mentation and exciterne11t beyond the academic builc:lirigs of the campus. It is too easy to say that there is an ·~mti· intellectual\ attitude .among students._ and perhaps a:mClitg a few faculty as well -- even if there may be limited trllth to that. The situation is mC~re ·complex; but for whatever reasons, we apparently sui·· focate the open curiosity and fascination with learning that Freshmen bring with them .to campus. Several of us who have t~ught Fresbman Preceptorial have remarked on how mn~b fun it is to teach in the F'all, when students are fresh to . campus and frequently excited by the re;~dings and the issues they raise. But something happens after that, year after year. It may be the ten-week term system, it may be too much mid-week beer and vodka, it may be socialization by cynical upperclassmen or mentors, ()r something else. But Union COllege rather quickly turns intellectual excitement into formal academic work and · curiosity into grade point averages. The sad resUlt is that Union students .()ften sell themselves short. I woutd argue that a majority ()f students here have no sense of how good they really are. By viewing the classroom as the only venue for careful thought and discovery, we have let students compartmentalize their lives in ways that restrict their de-velopment, both in- \' tellectua Uy and socially. Faculty and students need to explore how the curiosity that Fresbmen bring with them can be nurtUI'ed in an aspects of campus life. The new \in- ternatiorim house'' in Webster, dorm dinners with faculty members, the potential of the new College Center, the in- creasing student attendance at Minerva Lectures and political debates are all hopeful signs that significant change may be slowly underway. The distinc- tion between \academic\ and \student'~ life is a pernicious dichotom:y that needs to be removed from the mindset of students, faculty, and ad- ministrat()rs alike. Byron Nicho·ls is _a Professor of Politcal Science. SEN:IOIS To be wei! pla~e<f In June the fjme to STAIT IS NOW For resumes, ·W()Icl proces$ing and most importantly a l)lacement strategy contact IHE WRITE COURSE 377·1679 An Apology: The J.S.U. would Hke to apologize for turning people away from our_ first Friday Night D~nner. Thanks to everyone who made the e-vening a success. 1 achieve .. Currently, the t-wo General Education proposals are in the process of being reviewed; this would be an excellent opportWiity to display the unity desperately needed by the college community. 2. The community should understand that long term goal::J are no more or less a CCIII· sideration than short term goals. The two can worlt in concert without significa11Uy detracting from each other. A11 example of what can bappem without equal consideration to both the long term and the sllort term interests is the distul;)illg situation which existed two winters ago !freshmen a11d sophomores, ask the juniors amd seniors) when there w.asn'1 a happy face on campus. 3. Finally, more involvement ought to be displayed between the group::;: meaning, let's get the faculty to attend some theatre productions or a cabaret. Have the ad- ministration participate in social events (as well as guest speaker's ·forums.) The college center seems to be the ideal place to P'llln these events (hey. social alternatives committee! ) The sense of commWiity can only im(lrove campus life. Students wouldn't feel ignored and· mismderstood. Certainly there would be less griping by all groups and less excuses. It would also be considerably more comfortable. It's something to think about. Micha.tl Hiller is Ptesid•nt of Student Forum. I ..

CONCORDlENSIS, October 1, 1987 Page 11 Why Union Dropped the SAT Ed. Note: This piece has already run in several papers, including the Philadelphia Inquirer, the Allentown Free Press and the Hartford Courant. By TERRY WEINER and JAMES UNDERWOOD Early this spring we asked seven outstanding applicants visiting Union College, ''How many of you took a prep course designed to improve your score on the SAT?\ All seven an- swered \yes.\ One even said that his high school encouraged students to take prep courses in the sophm.ore year to improve scores on the preliminary version of the test (the PSAT), which plays a part in the awarding of National Merit Scholarships. Because Union faculty were then debating whether to continue requiring applicants to submit SAT scores, the students' comments helped confirm a growing conviction that the SAT had become a powerful tail wagging the educational dog. Originally touted as a means of identifying abilty urunasked by differences in preparation, the test had come to symbolize a profound distortion of the meaning of education. Students and parents were spending tremendous amounts of energy on the dubious quest for the highest possible score on one three-hour test. Later that spring, Union decided that submitting the SAT score would become an option for applicants. Our ac- tion came because we con- cluded that the SAT was lacking in several fundamental elements. One element is the very word \aptitude.\ Academic ·ability can mean an ex:isting capacity to do academic work-generally described as \achievement\ a potential capacity to do such work-generally described as \aptitude.\ The latter implies that an \aptitude\ test measures a fix:ed, innate quality and is insensitive to the kind of schooling an individual has had. Indeed, the SAT began as a way to reduce the effects of inequality between \good\ high schools and those rural or poor high schools that did not have such advanced placement or honors courses. In fact, the SAT does measure vocabulary, reading com- prehension, and quantitative reasoning; in fact, it is sensitive to an individual's schooling. Further, the SAT doesn't measure what we meant by ''aptitude\ any better than conventional achievement .tests, and there is evidence that achievement tests in languages, science, and mathematics correlate better with college performance than does the SAT. A second element we consider is the role of the SAT in American culture as a symbol of intelligence. To be sure, the College Board does not claim that the SAT is an intelligance test, but little has been done to dissuade the public from that interpretation. As such a symbol, the test does great damage to the self-esteem of thousands of students. One of the most interesting essays our Admissions Office recieved this year was from an applicant describing his ex· perience with \aptitude\ testing. Five years ago, ap- plying to private high schGols, he had taken an \aptitude\ test and finished in the 44th per- centile-despite being an \A\ student. He did get into a school and went on to earn a variety of academic and extracurricular honors. But in the SAT, he wound up, as he said, \an 1160 competing in a classroom of 1330's.\ \I hope Union College will take a chance on me,\ he wrote. (We did.) A third element in our decision was feeling that the SAT is not entirely free of cultural bias. Coupled with that is bias introduced by the use of preparatory courses by thousands of students, most of them affluent. If the SAT actually measures some \innate capacity,\ these coaching courses would have no impact. But the evidence in· dicates that at the minimum they can raise some scores enough to possibly make a difference in college admission decisions; It is likely they raise scores a good deal for those who can afford more or better coaching. Thus an SAT that started as an attempt to reduce inequality seems to be having the opposite effect. The well-documented lower scores on SAT tests for blacks and other minorities simply cannot be explained away by unequal access to coaching. Rather, these differences are an indicator of the vast gap in the educational resources available to these groups and to ''the minority.'' The differences in scores harm the colleges admission process as well as the self-esteem of minority students, who discriminate against themselves by Mt applying to selective colleges with high \advertised mean\ SAT results. For women, lower scores are primarily a result of their underrepresentation in math and science courses in high school. One would expect that on this basis alone there would be some difference in math scores by sex. What disturbed some at Union, however,was that the national average score for women is lower than the average for men in the verbal part of the SAT as well as the math section-even though high school girls generally achieve higher grades than boys. It is bizarre that a test designed to reduce inequality rewards males with easier access to scholarships and college admission even though women outperform them in the classroom. We recGgnize that the ability of any one college to have an impact on the emphasis on the SAT is limited. But we wanted to make a statement about the value of hard work and achievement; we wanted to indicate to those who had been the victims of discrimination that Union is interested in them; and we wanted to send a message to those who ad- minister these tests that the goal of national testing has to be reconsidered instrwnents must be carefully reviewed. In the end, we were convinced that making the SAT optional would enhance our ability to attract students with the at- tributes we value highly-a genuine thirst for knowledge, (intellectual curiosity, the ability and commitment to reach a high level of achievement, and the desire to contribute to a community of diverse interests and talents. Terry Weiner, Professor of Sociology, and Jim Underwood, Professor of Political Science, have been active in Union College's admissions efforts. A Sense of Community By MICHAEL HILLER The Concordy, in the Glasnost tradition, has requested several outspokeN students and professors to comment on Union College's positives and negatives in hopes of stimulating a divergence of views within the college com- munity. My decision to accede to this request was particularly critical as I will, inevitably, criticize many of the groups whose very support is fun- damental to the success of my office as President of the Student Forum. Yet, I would be neglecting the duties of that office if I were to waste this opportunity to express my dissatisfaction with these very groups; and, conversely to express my appreciation for the support of others. So, I begin my statement with the un- derstanding that my criticisms are a reflection on what has happened in the past and what should be avoided in the future. The single most important feature which is significantly lacking from Union College is a sense of community. How often, during the past three years have we found the ad- ministration, the faculty, and the students squabbling over issues-squabbling which has taken the form of idle chatter by two sides who refuse to listen to each other. In an intellectual community such as Union, ideals of education and stimulation of thought, should be considered the highest of priorities. This, is generally the case; however, the manner in which this priority or end is to be achieved is commonly the area disputed. Thus, the so- called adversarial relationships created by the tense situation described above, begin to form. From a student perspective, this feeling of mistrust of the administration and faculty is quite understandable with Gel- Time being passed despite a ninety-one percent student disapproval; with the phone systenn agreennents contracted without so much as one student serving on the committee which finalized the deal, etc. And, from the administration-faculty point of view, the students may appear as self-interested four- year patrons whose interest lies solely in the short term. O.K.- The interests of these . groups rest at different points on the spectrum. At the least, we are sure of the fact that Union is a place for education and thought. So, where does this leave us? Ah yes, a solution to the problenn of factionalsim and mistrust within our college commW!ity. Now that we have addressed the problem, we ought to resolve it. Here are a few ideas: 1. All these groups ought to work together-realizing that our interests may be slightly different, but also realizing that there is a common goal to COMMENT ARIES The Role of the College By BRYON NICHOLS I will focus my comments here on the \heart\ of College's role, i.e., the education of students and the spectrwn of faculty-student relationships that are part af this. In my judgment, what Union College does best is to permit and en- courage both students and faculty members to explore new forms of learning. The existence of IEF monies, the OT major, extensive Terms Abroad and internship opportunities, and the Dana grants for student summer research with faculty members are important examples of an insitutional commitment to individual in- novation in academic life. Union College is a remarkably flexible institution despite its hoary tradition, and its willingness to innovate has led to some exciting academic opportWlities for students and faculty alike. What we do least well, in my judgment, is to spread that same kind of intellectual fer- mentation and ex:citement beyond the academic buildings <Jf the campus. It is too easy to say that there is an \anti- intellectual\ attitude among students- and perhaps among a few faculty as well - even if there may be limited truth to that. The situation is more complex; but for whatever reasons, we apparently suf- focate the open curiosity and fascination with learning that Freshmen bring with them to campus. Several of us who have taught Freshman Preceptorial llave remarked on how much fW1· it is to teach in the Fall, when students are fresh to campus and frequently excited by the readings and the issues they raise. But something happens after that, year after year. It way be the ten-week term system, it may be too much mid-week beer and vodka, it may be socialization by cynical upperclassmen or mentors, or something else. But Union College rather quickly turns intellectual excitement into formal academic work and · curiosity into grade point averages. The sad result is that Union students often sell thennselves short. I would argue that a majority of students here have no sense of how good they really are. By viewing the classroom as the only venue for careful thought and discovery, we have let students compartmentalize their lives m ways that restrict their development, both in- tellectually and socially. Faculty and students need to explore how the curiosity that Freshmen bring with them can be nurtured in all aspects of campus life. The new \in- ternational house\ in Webster, dorm dinners with faculty members, the potential of the new College Center, the in- creasing student attendance at Minerva Lectures Bnd political debates are all hopeful signs that significant change may be slowly WJderway. The distinc- tion between \academic\ and \student\ life is a pernicious dichotonny that needs to be removed from the rnindset of students, faculty, and ad- ministrators alike. Byron Nichols is .a Professor of Politcal Science. SENIORS To be well placed in June the time to START IS NOW For resumes, word processing and most importantly a placement strategy contact THE WRITE COURSE 377-8679 /' An Apology: The J.S.U. would like to apologize for turning people away from our first Friday Night Dinner. Thanks to everyone who made the evening a success. achieve. Currently, the two General Education proposals are in the process of being reviewed; this would be an excellent opportunity to display the unity desperately needed by the college community. 2. The community should understand that long term goals are no more or less a con- sideration than short term goals. The two can worlt in concert without significantly detracting from each other. An example of what can happen without equal consideration to both the long term and the short term interests is the disturbing situation which existed two winters ago (freshmen and sophomores, ask the juniors and seniors) when there wasn't a happy face on campus. 3. Finally, nnore involvement ought to be displayed between the groups: meaning, let's get the faculty to attend some theatre productions or a cabaret. Have the ad- ministration participate in social events (as well as guest speaker's forums.) The college center seems to be the ideal place to plan these events (hey, social alternatives committee! l The sense of commWlity can only improve campus life. Students wouldn't feel ignored and· misunderstood. Certainly there would be less griping by all groups and less excuses. It would also be C()nsiderably more comfortable. It's sonnething to think about. Michael Hilla is Preridrnt of Student Forum.

Page 12 CONCORI)lENSlS, October 1~> 1987 Schenectady Symphony Benefit- By EDLIN What made SWlday's fan- tastic weather so perfect was the Schenectady Symphony Orcbestra Benefit Showcase of Chamber Music. The campus was serene, few people lay out in front of Schaffer Library while some others were still rec()vering from a rambunctious Saturday night. But in the SIIIl-filled Memorial Chapel were ,some of tbe region's best mllSicians performing a variety of music ranging from Baroque to Jazz to Contemporary. The Ethos Trio performed the \Trio Sonata in G Major\ by Quantz. This group made good use of the acoustics of the chapel. Their first notes reminded the listeners of the great quality of our marble chapel. The next group was the Evergreen WindQuintet who, in their courage and professionalism, played works by Hindemith (\Waltz and Lustig\ from \Kleine Kam- mermusik\) and .Arnold (\Allegro Vivace\ from \Three Shanties\). This critic was not familiar with .either work but the soWid was well' balanced, the rhythm was exciting and the nmsieians had great col()r to their sound. The mllSicians should receive merit for being willillg to perf().rrn con· temp()rary Works. Good diseretion went into the seleaion of tbese w<nks. 1'he Schuyler String Quartet sh()Wd also be- given credit for playing new rnusic. In this case, it was \Running to tlle Light\ by J;. AtchinsOon who was also present in the audience. Franldy, this listener would like to llearthe work again simply to be !Jetter. acq11ainte:d with it. The other two works were \RWlsian Dance\ by Rimsky- Korsakov, which the m11sicians ap]Jeared most .at easE with, and Barber's Adagio from the String Quartet in B rnin()r. One of tile students sittimg nearby immediately recognizeti it as the, music fr()m the movie \Platoon.\ These ladies are exceptional m~icians and work very well with each other. As time :progresses, ketep an ear out for this gr0oup beca~e they are Qn the rise. Then came the heavy ar- tillery! The Schenectady Brass Quintet perf()rmed· works by Gabrieli, Scheidt, Kabalevsky, Pachelbel and· ''Ain\t Misbehavin\ by Fats Waller. Perhaps the most notable number was the \Centone N(). V'' by Scheidt. The balance aJ1d dynamic control was admirable and again. tbe acoustic$ of .the chapel was well \ijsed. To be partial, the highlight ()£ tlle afternoon was the vi()li.nist Michael Emery's performance of the showpiece \Tziga11e'' by Maurice Ravel. The audience was Wldoubtedly dazzled wi~h Mr. Emery's showmanship and there was no reservation tlla:t his technique was polished. The · violinist and accom()anist · Renee Hostetler were un- swerVing complements t() ea(lh other. The tempo, dynamics, every gesture and in- terpretation were well tb.ought out and . well rehearsed This performance was cleaner a11d neater than many other per- formances I've heard. The chapel filled up a little m()re towards the end of the ~0 minute concert but for .thin~s like this, one can only wish that · the publicity was better. Area. Concerts Glenns Falls Civic Center 10/25: Aerosmith, Dokken Palace Theatre (Albany) 10/18: Suzanne Vega 10/29: INXS 11 /18: Bo Diddley 12/.18: George Winston RPI Fieldhouse (Troy) 10/l 0: The Hooters~ Out of Control, Rhythm & Blues Band, Chris Busone & the Rain, Rock&Hyde 10/ll: Heart Pulitzer Poet :Brooks ' Vi·sits Union B;y JOY CYBUL Pulitzer P.rize winner Gwendolyn Brooks gave a poetry reading at Carnegie Hall on Monday night. She was in- troduced by Craig Summers, i I l the chairman of the Black and Latin Alliance of students. Gwendolyn Brooks was the first Black woman ever to win the Pulitzer Prize. She has won several other awards for her poetry, including two Poet Gwendolyn Brooks GuggenhC'.im fellowships. Mrs. Brooks advocates many con- troversial issues .in her poetry, such as abortion and suicide. The first poem which Mrs. Brooks read was entitled \When you have· forgotten Sunday.\ It was a love poem dedicated to her husband. Then she read two .poems which she was asked to write in honor of the unveiling of the· Chicago Picasso ill '67, and its 19th anniversary in '86. Mrs~ Brooks is a native ~f Chicago. The ne::xt poem read was entitled •cro the yoWlg who want to die .. \ It was aimed at preventing teenage suicide by claimingtbat \death will wait.\ She sa_id that you can die whenever y()u want to, so why not wait umtil tomorrow-things might be IJetter then. A few p()ems were then read centering Oll Black anguish. \At the hairdr.esser's\ was a poem about wanting long, flowing hair. A fe:;.;v poems were Africa- based. ·'\Winnie Mandela;\ \The neal\ Johannesburg Boy,\ and \In Nair() bi\ were all in- spired by a 'trip to Africa. They deal with tlte strong ties which Blacks have to one another, and apartheid. '\We real cool\ was about yoUilg rebels, which the audience responded to very well. '~The Mother'' was about how a woman felt about her aborted chUdren. '\I loved you all; I knew you all.\ \The. life of Lincoln West\ centered on the hardships of a little Black boy had to face because he was black. This is one of Mrs. Brooks' favorite poems.. the final poems were ''The Balla~_ of Pearl May Lee,\· and \Infirm.\ Her performance was followed by a standing ovation and a question and answer period. When asked who influenced ber the most, Mrs. Brooks replied \Paul Lawrence DWlbar, Shakespeare, Word- sworth, Emily Dicinson, and my father.'' When asked ''How did you feel when you found out you had won the Pulitizer Prize?\ Mrs. Brooks said, \It was real exciting- Jack Starr called up and told me, and I said 'I don't believe it!' I took my son out to a movie to celebrate cmd I still can't remember what that movie was about!\ Gwendolyn Brooks was definitely a big hit with the Union community. She's a very down-to-earth, modern woman with a lot to say about our world. ' -- I sc n tb m ai m M ot ai lit C( w in w. S(J fr cl Y< fil wl s~ V< ja B1 1 I

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, October 1, 1987 ... ARTS!FILMSJ Schenectady Symphony Benefit IDyEDLIN What made Sunday's fan- tastic weather so perfect was the Schenectady Symphony Orchestra Benefit Showcase of Chamber Music. The cam:pus was serene, few people lay out in front of Schaffer Ubrary while some others were still recovering from a rambunctious Saturday night. But in the sun-filled Memorial Chapel were some of the region's best musicians performing a variety ef music ranging fr()m Baroque to Jazz to Contemporary. The Eth()s Trio performed the \Trio Sonata in G Major\ by Quantz. Tllis group made good use of the acoustics of the chapel. Their first notes reminded tile listeners of the great quality of our marble chapel. The neKt group was the Evergreen Wind Quintet who, in their courage and professionalism, played works by Hindemith (\Waltz and Lustig\ fr-om \Kleine Kam- mermusik '' ) and Arnold (\Allegro Vivace\ from \Three Shanties\)- 1'his critic was not familiar with either work but the sound was well balanced,. the rhythm was exciting and the musicians had great color to their so1:1nd. The musicia11s should receive merit for being willing to pErform con- temporary works. Good discretion went into the selection of these works. The Schuyler .String Quartet shol:lld also be given credit f()r- playing new music. Ir:~ this case,. it was \Running to the Light'~ by J. Atchinson who was al~o present in the audience. Frankly, this listener would like to hear the workagain simply to be better. acquainted with it. The other two works were \Russian Dance\ by Rirnslt:y- Korsakov, which the musiciaiJs appeared most at ease with, and Barber's Adagio from the String Quartet in B minor. One of the students sitting nearby immediately recognized it as the music from the movie \Platoon.\ These ladies are exceptional musidans and worlt very well with each other. As time progresses, keep an ear out for this group because they- are on the rise. Then came the heavy ar- tillery! The Schenectady Brass Quintet performed works by Gabrieli, Scheictt, Kabalevsky, Pachelbel and \Ain't Misbehavin\ by Fats Waller. Perhaps the most notabJ,e number was the \Centone Ne. V\ by Scheidt. The balance and dynamic control was admirable and again, the acoustics of the chapel was well used. To be partial, the highlight of the afternoon was the violinist Michael Emery's performance of the showpiece \Tzigane\ by Maurice Ravel. The audience was Wldoubtedly dazzled with Mr. Emery's showmanship and there was no reservation that his technique was polished. The violinist and accompanist Renee Hostetler were un- swerving complements to each other. The tempo, dynamics, every gesture and in- terpretation were well thought out and well rehearsed. This performance was cleaner and neater than many other per- formances I've heard. The chapel filled up a little more towards the end of the 80 minute concert but for things like this, one can only wish that the publicity was better. Arts J!appenings OFF CA.MPUS HE~RTBURN •.. Movie starring Jack Nicholson and M~ryr Streep. Showing Oct 2 & 4 at Schac:ht Fine Arts Center,.Russell Sage College. Show starts at 7:00p.m. and admission is $1. AT PROCTORS .•. Musioa.l, .,La Cage aux Foiles.\ Showint~ Fri. to Sun., Oct 2*4. FrL & Sat at 8 p.m., Sat. & Sun. at 2 p.m., and Sun. at 7 p:m. DAI\tCE PLANET ... At BOGfE•s in A!bany on Oct. tst. Cover charge of $1 and great beer specials. VIENNESE GALA ..• At Proctors Theatre, Schenectady on Oct. 7 ON CAMPUS SID AND NANCY ... Alex Cox: film starring Ga!)l Oldman and Chloe Webb. 7, 9 & 11 p.m. at the College Cen1er Audit~rium Oct. 2, 3 & 4. Ticket price $1. THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP ••• Film starring Robin Willfams and Glenn Close. At 8 & 10:30 p.m. in the Colleg~ C~nter Auditorium. Ticket price $1. Area Concerts Glenns Falls Civic Center 10/25: Aerosmith, Dokken Palace Theatre (Albany) 10/18: Suzanne Vega 10/29: INXS 11 /18: Bo Diddley 12/.18: George Winston RPI Fieldhouse (Troy) 10/10: The Hooters, Out of ControL Rhythm & Blues Band, Chris Busone & the Rain, Rock&Hyde 10/ll: Heart ~ !16iT Pulitzer Poet Brooks Visits Union :By JOY <:~BUL Pulit2:er Pri:ze w.1nne·r Gwendolyn Brook:s gave a poetry reading at Carnegie Hall on Monday night. She was in- troduced by Cr-aig SummErs, the chairman of the Black and Latin Alliance of stude11ts. Gwendolyn Brooks was the first Black woman ever to win the Pulitzer Prize. She has won several other awar-ds for her poetry, including two Poet Gwendolyn Brooks Guggenheim fello'Wships. Mrs. Brooks advocates :nany eoiJ- troversial issues .iln !Jer pCJetry, such as abortion md suicide. The Hrst poem ~hich Mrs. Brooks read was entitled \When you have forgot tell Sunday.\ It was ;a love poem dedicated to her husband. Then she read two poe!lrls which she was asked to Wf'ite in honor of the unveiling of be Chicago Picasso in '67, anod its 19th anniversary in '86. Mrs. Br:o<lks is a native of Chic=ago. The next poem read vvas entitled \To the young who want to die.\ It was aimed at pr-eventing teenag<E suicide by claiming that \death will wait.\ She said that you can die whenever you war1t to, so why not wait until tomorrow-things might be better th.en. A few poems were then read centering on Black anguish. ''At the hairdresser's\ was a pooem about wanting Ion~, flo-wing hair. A few poems W(!r'e Africa- based. \Winnie Nandela;\ \The near Johanneslmrg Boy,\ and \In Nairobi\ were ail in- spired by a trip to .Africa. They deal with the strmg ties which Blacks have to one another~ and apartheid. \We real cool\ was about young rebel:;, which the 1 2 a 4 5 Snow Whi;te NoWay()ut can't Buy' tni!i'l tow Stake-Out . Fatal AttracElo~ Dlny Oa:noin~ BlgSho~ The Ptlnc~fltll Hall Rali.S~ . PiCkUp: Attisl } :: .. ;~·· 12 · · · .r~rg: audience responded to very well. \The Mother\ was about how a woman felt about her aborted children. \I loved you all; I knew you all.\ \The life of Lincoln West\ centered on the hardships of a little Black boy had to face beca11se he was black. This is one of Mrs. Brooks' favorite poems. the final poems were ''The Ballad of Pearl May Lee,\ and \Infirm.\ Her performance was followed by a standing ovation and a q11estion and answer period. When asked who influenced her the most, Mrs. Breaks replied \Paul Lawrence Dunbar, Shakespear-e, Word- sworth, Emily Dieinson, and my father.\ When asked \How did you feel when yoa found out you had won the Pulitizer Prize?\ Mrs. Brooks said, \It was real exciting - Jack Starr called up and told me, and I said 'I don't believe it!' I took my son out to a movie to celebrate and I still can't remember what that movie was about!\ Gwendolyn Brooks was definitely a big hit with the Union commWlity. She's a very down-to-earth, modern woman with a lot to say about our world. 12::20, 2;25, 4:25 6:55, 9:55, 12:20 1:40, 4:45, 7:50, 10:25, 12:25 12:30, 8:35, 6:50. 9:4\l~ 12:10 1~:45, 4:00, 7:1Q. 10:10, 12:30 1:!$5, 4:$0, 7:40, 1:0:15, 12:2&. 1:4$\ 4:$'5, i:2fJ, 10:0()~ 12:10 1 :10, $:45, &:40; Miltl, 11 :50 1:3q; 4:1'5, 7:00, $:8$, 11 ~45 · .1?:35, a:ao; 9~1of t1 ;tt t:aa,·~;!)~~.~~~. ~~. ~!:~: . . ' 1!~¥~;'~' ... · .. ~l~~~j·.:~ . 11~~~;·a~2a~ 'jmo. ti±~... ·· : 1:: ~; :·: ·:· w I ' i I Sl I ' li I tt rr 8J n lV 01 a: li Cl w ir w S( fr cl Yl fi w sl VI jl: B r L A

Review , . ·sy UNDERDOO Wait! · Don~t 1~ tile nllJile ~care you away. TQis isn't a live.,fast•die•young anarchy thrash record. The name is merely intended to S<Jare away any cheesy radio stations tbat might e()nsider playing it. \In My 'l'ribe\ is difficult tc. digest oil t}le first bite. Witllin the album i:; a colleetioll of eleven little st<Jries and one classili! cover Song. Tbe .storJes' are all written ·~Ut on the b:JSid~ j~eket in paragraph form, c~mplete with. corre~ punctuation. '!be songs are- sung alm()st directly from. the stories . without a chorus~ . If a_ll this seews a little odd to you, blame it on tbe band's firecraclter Natalie· .Mercbarit who seems to be iwmi:ng the show. Her sometimes husky voice resounds through the jangly valleys left by -Robert Buck's Lead guitar. The only accompaniment she receives is a few 'sentences' . sUilg by vocalist Michael Stipe (aam.Ei tbe band .•. anyone?.,. any()n• e? ... R.E.M:) on 'A CSl'llpfire Song;' In ad<Ution, it seems she has · penned all these stories exceptfor the cover song, wlticll is 'Peace Train' by Cat Stevens, Although Merchant's lyrics often deal with negativ~ aspects of her experiences (child abuse, greed, war, even illiteracy), there is a beam Qf optimism between the lines, and e>ne really happy song called 'My Sister Rose' which is simply about her sister's wedding day. \In . My Tribe\ ·receives the full f()ur dog biscuits from Underdog for this record's improvement over the Maniaes last record (''The Wishing Chair'') and for the cover <>f the album which portrays some archery enthusiasts enj()yin:g the beach. 'Li.ve· at Proctors James Taylor Satu~day, October 24 Tickets on sale for Union Siudents with l. D. at the College Center Box Office for $18.50 I ~ Graduate Sc·hools V.isit Campus The following Graduate Schools will be on campus this termo Please sign up ad the CDC for an interview time at least 2 days prior to their c-erning. Albany Law School -Nov . .5 American Graduate School of International Management, Thunderbird Campus ·-. Oct. 9 Boston University L4w School- Oct. 7 Benjamin N. Cardaw Scho()l of Law- Oct. 12 Case WestemReserve Law School-. Nov. 19 Columbia Bt:~siness Schoe>l- Oct 12 Emory University~ Scltool cf Law -. Oct. 9 Kennedy School <>fG()vernment, Harvard University- Oct. 26 LBJ School of Public Affairs- Oct. 5 Univ-ersity of Conneoeticut ·-Oct. 29 University ofRiclunond LawSchool-·· · Nov, 3 Western New England Colle,ge, School of Law- Oct. 9 Additional Schools will alsc be attending the Career Festival on Oct. 14 • I ·~fiolr· 7& clioir wil{ 6e noUing its .9lnttua( 9fomecomi11tJ Coniert on Sa.tutiay~ Oct. 10tfi at 8:00pm in ,tfle :Jvlemoria{Cftapel. qJU concert is opeh to aft so 6ring a frUnff atuf hear some great music. Jackie Mason~s ''The World According to Me By J.L.G. the males in Naoon;s family without any apologies. His were Rabbis. It I!Oimes as no sur- . humor often focuses on ethnic There are few people who can stand Up on a stage alone for two and a half hours, with no props or gimmieks, and suc- cessfully entertain a. :Sroadway audience. Week after week Jackie Mason has been sharing his comical ihsigllts about · the world to a sold o11t audience at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre in Ne:w York City. Mason does not need anythi.n.g ()ther than his extreme perceptive wit to en- tertain. As Mas()n· ;paces up and down the barren stagehe shares his thoughts on Reagen, various celebrities, and events hap- .pening aU arol.ln<l the world. Mason~s- humor i1i .a;u directly from a Jewish view and hence often reflects the typical manner ethnic people think and ,act. The overall sh<Jw can best be appreeiateci by . those familiar withthe Jewish culture in America. · Mason's ac'Cent is the audience's first indication of his Lower East \Side 4>f Manhattan upbringing. For gEnerations all \EXHIL· ARATfNG. It Is Oldm~n~s 11'iumph that he make Innocence and brutalitY re$lde comfortably In the same body. The p11nlt aesthetic Is hilarious. Elr~lllant . an;d;· iiiiia priSe· that Mason was ordained stereotypes and rituals. ·Mason as a Rabbi at ~g~ 25, prior boldly proclaims to the crowd, to this Mason se:rved. as cantor: \I hate the Chinese, for years During the sh()W Mason ex- Jews have been faithful patrons plained to the a:udience that he to Chinese restaurants across began telling j{)ktes throughout the U.S.·· mts anyone every his sermons aad soon all the actually seen a Chinaman in a gentiles found (JUt .and began Jewish restaurant, or deli for attending. Mas<»n tben claimed that matter?\ Mason's facial he was the only Babbi with an expressions and imitations entire non-Jewish congregation. (especially his renditions of Ed Three years later Mason quit Sullivan and Willie Nelson) tbe synagogue to become a must also be credited. comedian beca'llse he felt he lacked the eligi()\1:1 conviction of a Rabbi. Since that time he has :perfonned in niglltcl11bs, as well as numerous mo\Vies including \The Jerk\ and '\llistDry of the· World- Part I\ md appeared on many televisioash()WS such as :\The Merv GrUEin Show\ and \The Ed SullivClll Show.\ As of late Mason 'h.<~s gained the recognition and r-espect as a comic .he lacke(! in past years. A few words llltliSt be said on Mason's style o-i hirrnor. He does not hesitclt~ to bad- mouth anyth'illg or anyo11e Arts Jackie Mason's broadway hit \THE WORLD ACCORDING TO ME\ will not appeal to everyone. If you find yourself laughing at all your grand- fatherls jokes at the Passover dinner table then J acki.e Mason is definitely the comic for you. Mason's wit is astounding to some and annoying to ·others. Available for those who feel they belong in the foimer group are Mason's book \The World According to Me'' and comedy album by the same name. name. , Briefs !Jlack Photography ·Exhibit Opening Oct. .3 at the New 100 years of Black history in York State M11sewn in Albany. America. Exhibit runs Wltil . Photos from t11e 19th and 20th Jan. 3, 1988. For more in- century docurnerlt more than formation call 374-5877 . Base on Field and Screen . The New York:.State Musell{Jl Admissior. is free. Both ; in Albany is spnllsoring an oJd~ programs complement the fashioned ba:seball game exhibit ''Diamonds are featuring 19th certtury dothing Forever; Artists and Writers on · and equipment om Sat., October Baseball\ now showing at the · 3. At 2 pm the rn11seum will also museum. show the fllrn '\'r.he Natural.\ Air Bands, Singers, Dance:rs., Stand-up Comics, . Tumblers, Lip Sync Actsi 1'cetry Reading And Any Good, Funny,. Or Othenvise Entertaining Acts ... W·HY.·N:OTT? Show Us ·What ·tou've. Got In The ••• ·' ·FIRST ANNUAL CAMPUS-WIDE TALENT SHOW .;,. NOV. 1, MEMORIAL CHAPEL OFFICIAL PRIZES: . . . ,·.· .. :1ST .2ND .·3RD I $100 Cash . 2 Tickets To Proctor's Or Movie Tickets At CrossgatEs For Your Entire Act A Bottle of Champagne PRIZES FOR ALL! Contact ~ Michelle ·at x4209·or Don: at x6980 for early info . DEADLIN·E ·TO ENT=ER: OCT. 10 . . . - . · . .. ·· .. =,.: ..... =:.:.>. =: _ .. -.:. ·~·. :~ ... :,~~st~,;-~AQJ+ld a.e .. 9:~,M.i.~1J..~~~.~~~s~ ·

CONCORDIENSIS, October I, 1987 Page 13 l ~ • . .... • '• • ' :. ' . ' • ' :' • ~ . ~ Record Review I By UNDERDOG Wait! Don't let the name scare you away. This isn't a live~fast-d.ie-young anarchy thrash record. The name !s merely intended to scare away any cheesy radio stations that might consider playing it. \In My Tribe\ is difficult to digest on the first bite. Within the album is a collection of eleven little stories and one classic cover song. The stories are all written out on the inside jacket in paragraph fonn, complete with correct punctuation. The songs are sWig almost directly from the stories without a chorus. If all this seems a little odd to you, blame it on the band's firecracker Natalie Merchant who seems to be running the show. Her sometimes husky voice resotmds through the jangly valleys left by Robert Buck's lead guitar. The only accompaniment she receives is a few 'sentences' sung by vocalist Michael Stipe (name the band ... anyone? .... anyon- e? ... R.E.M.) on 'A Campfire Song.' In addition, it seems she has penned all these stories except for the cover song, which is 'Peace Train' by Cat Stevens. Although Merchant's lyrics often deal with negative aspects of her experiences (child abuse, greed, war, even illiteracy), there is a beam of optimism between the lines, and one really happy song called 'My Sister Rose' which is simply about her sister's wedding day. \In My Tribe\ receives the full four dog biscuits from Underdog for this record's improvement over the Maniac's last record (\The Wishing Chair\) and for the cover of the albwn which portrays some archery enthusiasts enjoying the beach. Live at Proctors James Taylor I Saturday, October 24 Tickets on sale for Union Students with I. D. at the College Center Box Office for $18.50 I ~ Graduate Schools Visit Campus The following Graduate Schools will be on campus this term. Please sign up ad the CDC for an interview time at least 2 days prior to their coming. Albany Law School -Nov. 5 American Graduate School of International Management, Thunderbird Campus -Oct. 9 Boston University Law School- Oct. 7 Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law -Oct. 12 Case Western Reserve Law School-Nov. 19 Columbia Business School- Oct. 12 Emory University School of Law - Oct. 9 Kennedy School of Govenunent, Harvard University -Oct. 26 LBJ School of Public Affairs- Oct. 5 University of Cormecticut - Oct. 29 University of Richmond Law School_:.... Nov. 3 Western New England College, School of Law- Oct. 9 Additional Schools will also be attending the Career Festival on Oct. 14 ~Fiair I CJ'fze clioir wi{[ 6e fwUing its Jlnnua[ Homecoming Concert on Saturaay, Oct. lOtfi at 8:00pm in tlie :Memoria[ Cfiape£. %e concert is open to a{~ so bring a friena ana liear some great music. Jackie Mason's ''The World According to Me ByJ.L.G. There are few people who can stand up on a stage alone for two and a half hours, with no props or ginunick:s, and suc- cessfully entertain a Broadway audience. Week after week Jackie Mason has been sharing his comical insights about the world to a sold out audience at the Brooks Atkinson Theatre in New York City. MasoH does not need anything other than his extreme perceptive wit to en- tertain. As Mason paces up amd down the barren stage he shares his thoughts on Reagen, various celebrities, and events hap- pening all around the world. Mason's humor is all directly from a Jewish viE!w and hence often reflects the typical manner ethnic people think and act. The overall snow can best be appreciated by those familiar with the Jewish culture in America. Mason's accEnt is the audience's first indication of his Lower East Side of Manhattan upbringing. For generations all .. EXHIL- ARATING. It Is Oldman's triumph that he make Innocence and brutality reside comfortably In the same body. The punk aesthetic Is hilarious. Brilliant and cor1npa1ssl~onate the males in Mason's family were Rabbis. It comes as no sur- prise that Mason was ordained as a Rabbi at age 25, prior to this Mason served as cantor: During the show Mason ex- plained to the audience that he began telling jokes throughout his sermons and soon all the gentiles found out and began attending. Mason then claimed he was the only Rabbi with an entire non-Jewish congregation. Three years later Mason quit the synagogue to become a comedian because he felt he lacked the eligious conviction of a Rabbi. Since that time he has performed in nightclubs, as well as numerous movies including \The Jerk\ and \History ofthe World- Part I\ and appeared on many television shows such as \The Merv Griffin Show\ and \The Ed Sullivan Show.\ As of late Mason has gained the recognition and respect as a comic he lacked in past years. A few words must be said on Mason's style of humor. He does not hesitate to bad- mouth anything or anyone Arts without any apolDgies. His bwnor often focuses on ethnic stereotypes and rituals. Mason boldly proclai.Ins to the crowd, \I hate the ChinEse,. for years Jews have been faithft:!l patrons to Chinese restaurmts across the U.S. Has an:yone every actaally seen a Chinaman in a Jewish restaura11t, or deli for that matter?\ Mason's facial expressions and imitations (especially his reiHiitions of Ed Sullivan and Willie Nelson) must also be credited. Jackie Mason's !>roadway hit \THE WORLD A.CCORDING TO ME\ will r1ot appeal to everyone. If you fin.d yourself laughing at all y()ur grand- father's jokes at t:he Passover dinner table then Jackie Mason is definitely the comic for you. Mason's wit is astounding to some and annoying to others. Available for those who feel they belong in thE former group are Mason's book '~The World According to Me\ and comedy album by the same n.arne. name. Briefs Black Photography Exhibit Opening Oct. 3 at. the New 100 years of Black: nistory in York State Musewn m Albany. America. Exhibit runs until Photos from the 19th and 20th Jan. 3, 1988. F()r more in- . century document more than formation call 374-[)877. Base on Field a1td Screen The New York State Maseum Admissior. is free. Both in Albany is sponsoring a11 old- programs complement the fashioned baseball game exhibit \Diam()nds are featuring 19th century r:lothing Forever; Artists and Writers on and equipment on Sat., October Baseball\ now sl\lov.i.ng at the 3. At 2 pm the musewn will also museum. show the film \The Natural.\ Air Bands,. Singers, Dancers, Stand-up Comics, Tumblers, Lip Sync Acts, Poetry Reading And Any Good, Funny,. Or Otherwise Entertaining Acts ... WHYNOTT? Show Us What ·You've Got In The ••. FIRST ANNUAL CAMPUS-WIDE TALENT SHOW NOV. 1 1 MEMORIAL CHAPEL OFFICJAL PRIZES: 1ST 2ND 3RD I $100·Cash 2 Tickets To Proctor's Or Movie Tic:kets At Crossgates For Your Entire Act A Bottle of Champagne PRIZES FOR ALL! Contact Michelle at x4209 or Don at x6980 for early info DEADLINE TO ENTER: OCT. 10 ActsSho1.1ld Be 9 .. 5 Minutes Long.

CONOORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 ./ Film Festival at- Union ByCHJ.USHARTMANN and ELIZABETH RE.R.LlNER ATTENTION! ltttention!- For all you moviE~oers and otherwise social! Union students, I'm happ~ to an- nounce that from nmw ()n there will not only be IDO!Vies on Tuesday, Friday, Satlll'day:, and Sunday nights, but .also on Wednesday night. On October 5th, Un.i()n will kick off its new Inter-national Fihn Series with an J!laugural lecture to be given by the renowned film criti.c John Simon of New York magazine and National Revie-w. His lecture Will focus on con· temporary film criticism and will begin at 7: 30 in tile college center auditoriwn:. W:r. Simon was the recipient of tme Qeorge Polk Memorial Awar(). for film criticism in 1968 andtlleGeorge Jean Nathan Award for dramatic cricicism ill 1969. In the past he has taugbt at such prestigious univer:sities as Harvard, MIT, CJ.tHI the University of Washin$on. But this lecture wHU not just be another educatio.nal ex- perience. David Eva11ier of the National Review deserfibed Mr. Simon as \a film cl'itic in a class by himself. In fact, he is one of the two or tiu-ee best critics writing in Englis..h in any genre.;, Anotber re~ewer, Andrew Sinclair, declared that \John Simon has claims to be the best fUm critic now writing on eitner side of the Atlantic.\ Most of all, Mr. Simon is known for his honesty in film review. He does not m11ster his opinion of a ba:d fihn, regardless of. the reputations inv()lved or the egos at stake. Undollbtedly, it is this discriminating attitude that makes Mr. Simon such a powerful figure in film re1riew. Then starting Wednesday, October 7, an<! every Wed- ·nesday thel.\'ea.fter until November Hl, the College Center International Film Series will present a .feature film ooginning .at 7: 30 in the auditorium. Obviously, the films will be international in flavor and, gmd news, ad- missio!l is free. The films presented include such classics as I:ngmar Bergman ·~r The Seventh Seal and Vottorios De Sica's The Bicy-cle Thief. Once again, :folks, Union is offering sometlling new and different for you to experience. • So for all of you that have Thursday morning off, here's something to do before hitting Rupsis, and fer those who do have class, the films are early enough that yo11 c'an still go out after and be able to get up in the morning. Hopet<J see you there! Jim and Buddy at the Movies FATAL ATTRACTION Starring: Michael Douglas and Glenn Close Rated: R To call the film ''Fatal Attraction\ a ·suspens~ movie, is to cop..out and tag it With an easy label. Yes, \Fatal Attraction\ does keep one . guessing during the movie. However, the guesswork is focused more on the ''when' r-ather than the 'what.' As the plot WJravels, the viewer can more or less figure out what is going to happen. It is-the brutal suddenness with which it occurs t:hat · holds the audience in a permanent stomach know. Michael Douglas plays a prototypical yuppi-e-type The Managers & Staff of the DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT are pleased to announce fue return of . . . \DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT\! on 10/10 and coming :_friday nights. · Make reservations for limited seating with Dutch Hollow Cashier by 10/5. . Cash price $11.00 or meal card punch with school I.D. lawyer; wif~, kid, .nice apart• ment in the city, and_pienty of · friends who eat sushi and drive £oreign cars, Left atone for a weekend, while his wife goes U(ltJSe hWJt.jng in the suburbs, [)o:ugles dellid~s to have a quick aif.air with the lovely Glenn Cbse. The Jlrobletn arises when lie ·gives hEr the old, ''let's be friends\ line, -and she won't listen. N'()ticeably coming \lllbinged,. Close haunts Doublas w:itn telephone cans and threats. Do11glas tries all he can to rWl awa:y from her, yet, the m()re he tries, the more violent sl!e becomes. I:n the end, the story is wr.apped up in a fairly predictable manner for the vie-wer. Rather than attempt a lane plot gimmick, ''Fatal Attraction\ relies o:n convincing actmg ·and action to create a sickening tension in the a11die11ce',s stomach. Glenn Close .reihstates herself as a top actress, redeemirlg her name . aftel' last yea·r!s debacle, · \Maxie.'~ A m&jor part of the tensio11 in the film is due-to l')er perf()nna:nce as one w~tches her come unglued. · As· for Michael Douglas, he t<Jo, does an ex.()ellent jo.b in conveying the ern()tions of a man 'Watching hle lifE, and life, come l:llldone before bis eyes. Film Grade A. ;Campus Movies This Week sm At-![? NANCY ... Director t\i~:x Cox:: of \Repo Man\ fame mixes fact and far:~tasy to tell the tragic love story of pl:Hlk rocker Sid ViciQUS and f()ver Nancy Spungeon. Gary OIGin1an and 01-ll\e Vllebbare amazing in tf)e,s.tarring roles, turning one of the sordid tales of our times into'a more understandable one. Fr~. Sat & Sun. at 7, 9 & 11 THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP •.. Robin Williams and Glenn Close star in the film adaptation of John · lrving's novel. Look for John Uthgow at\the transsexual ex-NFL-er Roberta Mulcloon. Tues: ai s & 1 0:30 FREE MOVIE! ' The Psychology Club wUI be showing \One Flew Over the Cuckoo's -Nest'' Thursday, October 1st at 7:30p.m~ in Psycholo~y 113. 11ft A short meeting of the Club will be held at 7:00 p;m. for all inter9stec:l st~dents . ..______fREE ·POPCORN!-__, 7:00-9:00 12:30-4:30 5:00 5:30 6:30 9:00 Meet at house 7:00-7:30 7:30 1:00 9:00 6:00 Flicks~ & Cllicks B.B.Q. &. Ball Cookout Wings & Movie Wings & Clams Cookout Casino Night Ultimate Fnsbee & Flag Football · Casino Night Nite at the Saratoga Rllces - Movies & Mystery Event Pizza& Soda B.B,Q. & Whiffet Ball Party At' West C()llege . · \ANi~ht ill Tijuana\ tocodi11ner, non -alcoholic mexican drinlcs, JlOOl, flicks and }Xlker. 1:00-4:30 B.B.Q. & Sports 8:00 Casino Night I ... .• ~. ' ~·

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 Film Festival at Union By CHRIS HARTMANN and ELIZABETH BERLINER ATTENTION! Attention! genre.\ Another re\1-iewer, Andrew Sinclair, declared that ''John Simon has claims to be the best film critic now writing on either side of the Atlantic.\ MQst of all, Mr. Simon is known for his honesty in film review. He <loes not muster his opinion of a bad film, regardless of the reputations involved or the eg@s at stake. Undoubtedly, it is this discriminating attitude that makes Mr. Simon such a powerful figure in film review. Jim and Buddy at the Movies For all you moviegoers and otherwise social Union students, I'm happy to an- mmnce that from now on there will not only be movies on Tuesday, Friday, Saturday, and Sl:lllday nights, but also on Wednesday night. On October l;th, Union will kick off its new International Film Series with an Inaugural lecture to be given by the renowned film critic John Simon of New York magazine and National Review. His lecture will focus on con- temporary film criticism and will begin at 7:30 in the college center auditorium .. Mr. Simon was the recipient of the G.eorge Polk Memorial A ward for film criticism in 1968 and the George Jean Nathan Award for dramatic cricicism in 1969. In the past he has taught at such prestigious universities as Harvard, MIT, and the University of Washington. But this lecture will not just be another educational ex- perience. David Evanier of the National Review described Mr. Simon as ·•a film critic in a class by himself. In fact, he is one of the two or three best critics writing in English in any Then starting Wednesday, October 7, and every Wed- nesday thereafter until November 18, the College Center International Film Series will present a feature film beginning at 7:30 in the auditorium. Obviously, the films will be international in flavor and, g()od news, ad- mission is free. The films presented include such classics as Ingmar Bergman's The Seventh Seal aiJd Vottorios De Sica's The Bicycle Thief. Once again, folks, Union is offering something new and different for you to experience. So for all of you that have Thursday morning off, here's something to d() before hitting Rupsis, and for those who do have class, the films are early enough that you can still go out after and be able to get up in the morning. Hope to see you there! INTERNATIONAL FILM SERIES COLLEGE CENTER I COLLEGE CENTER INTERNATIONAL FILM SERIES 1987 FALL TERM COLLEG.E CENTER AUDITORIUM-7:30PM AU films are free and open to the public Monday, Odober 5 Inauguaral Lecture John Simon, drama critic for New 'fork M~gazine and film critic for National R~view vvillleeture on contmporary film criticism. Wednesday, October 7 Vittorio De Sica, Bicycle .TI)ief (1948 . Wednesday, Oct<Jber 14 . Akira I<urosawa, Raehomon (19-50) Wednesday/' October 21 Federico Fellinf;,LaSjtada (1954) · Wednesday, . Octubet: 28 . Ingmar Bergman,,lbe$gventhSeal (1956) Wednesday;(-- NQ;vember 4 ' Jean .. Luc Godard, .lre,atlj;re§a . {1956J Wedne~¢1ay~ Nb1fell'lber 171 ... Prancois;Ttilffa:ut,4~Blows {1959) f . \ ' . •' . . · ... Wedt\e$~'!~' .. ~~!!!\~~'~ ·~~~) .... · ... ':· Mkhelang~lt> Antoqipm~ l;•a'~il'-41: (~96()) . ': );. '~\ : .. :.':IJ • > . \ <'•· , ·• .... ·········•.··· ..... FATAL ATTRACTION Starring: Michael Douglas and Glenn Close Rated: R To call the film \Fatal Attraction\ a suspense movie, is to cop-out and tag it with an easy label. Yes, \Fatal Attraction\ does keep one guessing during the movie. However, the guesswork is focused more on the 'when' rather than the 'what.' As the plot unravels, the viewer can more or less figure out what is going to happen. It is the brutal suddenness with which it occurs that holds the audience in a permanent stomach know. Michael Douglas plays a prototypical yuppie~type The Managers & Staff of the DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT are pleased to announce the return of ... \DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT\! on 10110 and coming Friday nights. Make reservations for limited seating with Dutch Hollow Cashier by 10/5. Cash price $11.00 or meal card punch with school I.D. ~\~~ Theta Delta Chi Oct. 12 Theta Delta Chi Oct. 18 Sigma Phi Oct. 1 Sigma Phi Oct. 7 ~~~;\\ Phi Delta Theta Oct. 7 ~~~~\JS\o~'6 Phi Delta Theta Oct. 13 Phi Gamma Delta Oct. 7 . ~c~ ~\) Sigma Chi Oct. 7 Sigma Chi Oct. 18 Alph Phi Alpha Oct. 10 *All males interested • Kappa Sigma Oct. 7 In Rush are invited. Phi Sigma Kappa Oct. 8 Zeta Beta Tau Oct. 6 lawyer; wife, kid, nice apart- ment in the city, and plenty of · friends who eat sushi and drive foreign cars. Left alone for a weekend, while his wife goes house huntin~ in the suburbs, Dougles decides to have a quick affair with the lovely Glenn Close. The problem arises wfuen he gives her the old, \let's be friends\ line, a.nd she won't listen. Noticeably corning WJhinged, Close haunts Doublas with telephane calls and threats. Douglas tries all he can to rtrn away from her, yet, the more he tries, the more violent she becomes. In the end, the story is wrapped up in a fairly predictable manner for the viewer. Rather than attempt a lame plot gimmick, \Fatal Attraction\ relies on convincing actiog and action to create a sickening tensicm in the audience's stomach. Glenn Close reinstates herself as a top actress, redeeming her name after last year's debacle, \Maxie.\ A major part of the tension in the film is due to her performa.nce as one watches her c<>me unglued. As for Michael Douglas, he too, does an eK:cellent job in conveying the emotions of a man watching hie life, and life, come undone before his eyes. Film Grade A. Campus Movies This Week sm AND NANCY ... Director Alex Cox of \Repo Man\ fame mixes fact and fantasy to tell the tragic love story of punk rocker Sid Vicious and lo\'er Nancy Spungeon. Gary Oldman artd Chloe Webb are amazing in the starring roles, turning one of the sordid tales of our times into a more understandable O!le. Fri., Sat. & Sun. at 7, 9 & 1 i THE WORLD ACCORDING TO GARP ... Robin Williams and Glenn Close star in the film adaptation of John Irving's novel. Look for John Lithgo111 at the transsexual ex-NFLer Roberta Muldoon. Tues. at 8 & 10:30 .All 1ickets are $1 for Unioll students. All movies shown in the College Center Auditorium FREE MOVIE! The Psychology Club wi II be showing \One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest\ Thursday, October 1st at 7:30 p.m. in Psychology 113. ,, A short meeting of the Club will be held at 7:00 p.m. for all interested students. \---FREE POPCORN!----~ 7:00-9:00 Flicks & Chicks ' 12:30-4:30 B.B.Q. & Ball 5:00 Cookout 5:30 Wings & Movie 6:30 Wings & Clams Cookout Casino Night tntimate Frisbee & Flag Football 9:00 Casino N~ght Meet at house Nite at the Saratoga Races 7:00-7:30 7:30 Movies & Mystery Event Pizza& Soda 1:00 E.B.Q. & Whiffel Ball 9:00 Party At West College 6:00 \A Night io Tijuana\ toco dinner, non-alcoholic mexican drinks, ]JOOl, flicks and poker. 1:00-4:30 B.B.Q. & Sports 8:00 Casino Night 1 ( f t t i

.. ~· '! ~ ~ !i t \ I, 'I I I I .. .. SCHOLARSHIPS , & INTERNSHIPS 'Fbe American-scandinavian Foundation ' announces its competit-ffin for. gran~s and fellowships in 1988-89. Through these funds ASF encourages advanced study and research in the Scandinavian countries. Awards are open to U.S. cituens and permanent residents who will have completed their un- dergraduate ~ducation at the time their overseas program begins. For more information contact the Financtai Aid Office. Application deadline for proposals for 1988-89 is November 2; 1987. The National Space Club announces its competition -for the 1988-89 Fr, Robert H. Goddard Sch()larship. The NSC Will award a $7500 scholarship to stimUlate· the interest of talented students in the op· portmity to ·advance scientific knowledge through space research and exploration. Applicants must be at the junior year level or beyond with in- tentions t() _ pu·rsue un- dergraduate or gradU.ate - studies in science or engineering dtiring the interval of the scholarship. For more information contact , the Financial Aid Office, 2nd floor -·· CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1981 Page 15 Becker Hall. Application .deadline is January 15, 1988. GRE FEE WAIVER for test dates through Sept. 1988 may be applied for at the Financial Aid Office. The waiver covers the test fees for either the General Test, a Subject Test, or both tests. There if) .only one waiver allowed per eligible student. Financial need for the waiver must be established by the Financial Aid Office. Contact Ellen Frishber, Director of Fi,nancial Aid at x6123 or Becker Hall, 2nd floor f.or more information. CLUB NEWS- Acting! Lights! Sets! Costumes! Props! Advertising! Ushering! Mountebanks--st- . udent theatre--meetings are every Monday at 4; 30 in the Nott. Sign up your act now for the Talent Show 7th week. First prize$$$$. Gospel Ensemble rehearses every Wednesday evening 8:30- 10:00 Arts Bldg. Rm. 215. Come . one, come all. . Come to our Yom Kippur Break· Fast on Saturday, October 3rd at 7:00 p.m. in the Kosher Kitchen, West College. Reservations are necessary, so pleas~ fill out the J.S.U.'s Yom Kippur Reservation Slip or call Ellen at 386-4013. Eucharistic Ministers Workshop~ Thursday, October 1 from 7~9 p.m. in St. John's School Library. Register with · Sr. Joan wbo. will .give the Workshop. Commissioning will take place Sunday, Oct. 4th during 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. Reception in Rectory ~ Sunday, October 4th im- mediately following the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy the Newman Club will host a reception for the Uni<>n Community in St. John's Rec:tory. B4lwlfug Night - Monday, October 5th the Newman Club is sponsoring a bowling evening at Bolllevard Lanes. Anyone who is interested meet at College Center at 8:30 p.m. Tran- sportation will be provided. Tutorial Program - Union College Studentscan 'be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten Aides~ Computer Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson, 386-4364. Folk Group ~ AU singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. . Newman Overnight Retreat · - October 23rd and 24th from 5 p.m. Friday until 5 p.m. Saturday at 1630 N<>tt Street. . Theme: Relationsl1ips - God, myself, others. D().nation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. THE FUTURE IS IN INTERNADONAL BUSINESS A representative will be on campus FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1987 to discuss GRADUATE STUDY -~~ THUNDERBIRD '(Jj~ AME.RICAN GRADUATE. SCHOOL . OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT . GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306 Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER We know that a cheap calculator can cost you blood, sweat and time. Investing in a Hewlett- Packard cal- culator, on the other hand, can save you time and again. Two students are needed to be on the Minerva Committee. lnterested students should attend the COC Meeting Oct. 8 · at 6:30 in Rm. 409. Contact Geri Mackey, Box 1032 if problems. '~ b!tiifi·: The Film Committee presents.: Sid and Nancy 10-2, 10-3, 10-4 at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. The World According to Garp 10-6 at 8:00 pm, 10:30 pm. Nelson Is Book Store '17 3 Jay Street, Schenectady Open Monday thru Saturday 11:00 am-5:30 pm Thursday Evenings 'till 9 pm Manager Bill (Gonzo) Rollins HP calculators not only have better func- tions. They function ·- better. Without stick- ing keys and bad connections. Through October 31, you can get the cream of the calcu.la- tors at a non-fat price. \i~~:~:fu';~~ We're cutting $10 off the HP-12C. That b~ys you more built- in functions than any- one el~e's financial calculator. And we're giving away a free Advantage Module, a $49 value, with every HP-41 Advanced Scientific calculator you buy: This 12K-byte plug- in, rribu-driven ROM was designed spe- cially for students. So drop by your · campus bookstore and compare HP calcula · tors with the rest. By midterm, you'll see what a deal this is. ,---------~ . FREE $49HP-41 . : A~~~~~~~~~~~~~E : I chase must be made between I I AugUst 15, 1987, and October 31. I 1987. See your locali{P dealer I for details and official redemp- l I tiort form. Rebate or free M.od- I ule \~ill be sent in 6-8 weeks. I OR$100FFANHP-12C I L ______ ~ _ _j {t}j) (;f) C[b FJ/dl HEWLETT ~/.!,11 PACKARD ., ,.

CONCORDIENSJS, October 1, 1987 Page 15 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The American-Scandinavian Foundation announces its competition for grants and fellowships in 1988-89. Through these fWlds ASF encourages advanced study and research in the Scandinavian countries. Awards are open to U.S. citizens and permanent residents who will have completed their W1- dergraduate education at the time their overseas program begins. For more information contact the Financial Aid Office. Application deadline for proposals for 1988-89 is November 2, 1987. The National Space Club announces its competition for the 1988-89 Fr. Rebert H. Goddard Scholarship. The NSC will award a $7500 schelarship to stimulate the interest of talented students in the op- portunity to advance scientific knowledge through space research and exploration. Applicants must be at the junior year level or beyond with in- tentions to pursue un- dergraduate or graduate studies in science or engineering during the interval of the scholarship. For more information contact the Financial Aid Office, 2nd floor Becker Hall. Application deadline is January 15, 1988. GRE FEE WAIVER for test dates through Sept. 1938 may be applied for at the Financial Aid Office. The waiver covers the test fees for either the General Test, a Subject Test, or both tests. There is only one waiver allowed per eligible student. Financial need for tbe waiver must be established by the Financial Aid Office. Contact Ellen Frishber, Director of Financial Aid at x6123 or Becker Hall, 2nd .flo()r f.or more information. CLUB NEWS Acting! Lights! Sets! Costumes! Props! Acl.vertisiHg! Ushering! Mountebanks--st- udent theatre--meetings are every Monday at 4:30 in the Nott. Sign up your act now for the Talent Show 7th week. First prize$$$$. Gospel Ensemble rehearses every Wednesday eve11ing 8: 30 - 10:00 Arts Bldg. Rrn. :l15. Come one, come all. Come to our Yom Kipp11r Break- Fast on Saturday, October 3rd at 7:00 p.m. in the Kosher Kitchen, West College. Reservations are necessary, so please fill out the J.S.U.'s Yom Kippur Reservation Slip 01 call Ellen at 386-4013. lCl1987 Hewlett-Packard Company PG 12703 Eucharistic Ministers Workshop -Thursday., October 1 from 7-9 p.m. in St. John's School Library. Register with Sr. Joan who wiU give the Workshop. Commissioning will take place Sunday, Oct. 4th during 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. Reception in Rectory - Sunday, October 4th im- mediately following the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy the Newman Club will host a reception for the Union Community in St. John's Rectory. Bowling Night - Monday, October 5th the Newman Club is sponsoring a bowling evening at Boulevard Lanes. Anyone who is interested meet at College Center at 8:30 p.m. Tran- sportation will be provided. Tutorial Program - Union College Studentscan be used in the following areas at St. JohN the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten Aides, Computer Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin NelsoH, 386-4364. Folk Group- All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30p.m. SUI!day Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Newman Overnight Retreat - October 23rd and 24th from 5 p.m. Friday until 5 p.m. Satu1day at 1630 Nott Street. Theme: Relationships - God, myself, others. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. THE FUTURE iS IN INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS A representative will be on campus FRIDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1987 to discuss GRADUATE STUDY ru 1JiY~!2fu~!!¥> ~ OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT GLENDALE, ARIZONA 85306 Interviews may be scheduled at CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER We know that a cheap calculator can cost you blood, sweat and time. Investing in a Hewlett-Packard cal- culator, on the other hand, can save you time and again. HP calculators not only have better func- tions. They function better. Without stick- ing keys and bad connections. Through October 31, you can get the cream of the calcula- tors at a non- fat price. We're cutting $10 off the HP-12C. That buys you more built- in functions than any- one else's financial calculator. And we're giving away a free Advantage Module, a $49 value, with every HP-41 Advanced Scientific calculator you buy. This 12K-byte plug- in, menu-driven ROM was designed spe- cially for students. So drop by your campus bookstore and compare HP calcula- tors with the rest. By midterm, you'll see what a deal this is. ,--------, I AD~RJtA& lffo15uLE I I Wtlh plltTh;ht' otHP· II !'UI I 1 rh<bt• 11111st lw madl' bt•t \Wt'\ 1 I .-\ugmtl:l. l'IK7. and ( ktoilt'l .n I llll-11. St>t' vour lot· a I HI' rk,llt•' I tor dt>talis. and nfftnal rt'rk-mp I tum form Rl'hatt' or tn•v \l\d 1 I ult• will he st•nt 1111i · K Wt't·k' Two students are needed to be on the Minerva Committee. Interested students should attend the COC Meeting Oct. 8 at 6 :30 in Rm. 409. Contact Geri Mackey, Box 1032 if problems. The Film Committee presents: Sid and Nancy 10-2, 10-3, 10-4 at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. The World According to Garp 10-6 at 8:00 pm, 10:30 pm. Nelson·s Book Store 173 Jay Street, Schenectady Open Monday thru Saturday 11:00 am-5:30 pm Thursday Evenings 'till 9 pm Manager Bill (Gonzo) Rollins I OR$100FFANHP-12C I L ________ _j Fhdl HEWLETT ~/:..1 PACKAI=ID

\ •, ~ .. ~ • • t Page li CONCORDIENSIS, October J,. 1'9117 CLASSTFIEDS Wanted: Student volunteers to be leader~, assistant leaders, or to hel)l \With special events in Schenectady Girl Scout troops. In the vicilli.iy of Union College. Please call' Mohawk Pathways Girl Scout Cr:llmcil, 374-3345. Ask for J ohan11a or Susan. . Babysitting for 2 children. Tues. and-ol' Wed. 8 to 4:30pm (can be flexible). Please contact ~77-3092. Student to help lead after- school pr()grCIIll. K-5th Grade, 2:15 to 5.:30 ;J>.m., $5.00-hr. 40 to 46 childre11~ Please 'contact 370- 0366. Stude11ts - 1() needed to work on Karen .Jollnson Campaign - Dem. Headquarters, 444 State St. Mon. tl!ru Sat. 5-9 p.m. - $3.65..:hr. Need lst11dent to rWl errands, grocery shopping, basic houseclean:iing, etc. for an 85 yr. old wom~n in good health - $4.5D-hr .5-iihrs. week. Location Union Ave_ Please contact 374- 3632. Need .st\ldents to insert ad- vertiserne~Lis in papers. 1:30 to 5:30 p.rn. or 6 to 10 p.m. Hrs. negotia 1 ~1e $6. 70-hr. Please contact :Bill at 377-2404 Schenectady Gazette, Press Bldg., 1~ N. Broadway, 20- 1 10 hrs. per 'WEek expected. Looki11g for Claim Support ProceSS()!'. P-T 15-20 hrs.-wk. Mon-Fri, $~.()(}-hr. Input claims into CRT Preparing forms. Log appraisal requests. Phone contact with: customers. Typing 41> WPM plus CRT Experieace. <Aluld lead into full time for ~tiiiliiler. Contact Vern BLOOM I'M THROf/&H. l?I/5Tel?. HI570R.Y. Tubbs at 45~~834. Aetna. Life & Ca511alt:y, 2()7a Central Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 1~()4-4466. Wli:NTED!!! A~gre&-si ve, enthJt~siasticstudents to jcin the '87-'88 S]ud:ent Trav.el Services Sale:s'Ieam. Earn free trips and casll, set y<>ur own hollLs, and gain excellent sales experience wbil-e. rnClrketing Winter and Sp11img Break vacations. For morte i11formation calll-300-648- 4875- ..Ap~trtment for rent -available Nov . 1. 2. bedrooms within 10 min. from .::ampus. $300-month. Contact 374-3295. ~LO! ·$5£(} weekly\UP mailing circ:uiar. Rush self-addressed stamped e11velope. Dept. An- 7CC:4~'i\, 9300 Wilshire, Suite 47, BeV\erly Hills, CA ~()212. OH, 19M A (7()~/IA Pte. \ Of'(IS I f%1/f( •• I 11/IIY ONlY 86 II H€f1T fffiUUCt- NflTION, 8UT IWI 5Tit.L Y(}(JR. MOTfle'f( liN/? YOIJU l!$1eM 7() #16 \~ / NOW GeT 'YOUR W/1'5 1180fl('fllll fl~/? Jf!GT eer 'ttJof? t..Jme FIIMNY .(Jt)T (If 7H/5 t?e5fff?T tffe55/ \..~=~ Attention Soc. Med. Stude!lts: I lost your papers - do them over. +Prof. Baker Babysitter - in my horne. E:x.per.ienced, responsible . person for an active 6-month-old baby. Mom needs a day amllln · oecasional evening per week to rW1 errands. References $U!li- hl\. call 372-7517. Kathy G11nll. 1009 Millington Rd., Niskay11na: NY 12309. College students earn $6 .. $1() per hour working parHimC~ .on campus. For more informatiom, call 1-80{);.932-0528. HOMEWOIU\ERS W:aritelli! Top Pay! C.L 121 24th A.ve., N .W., Suite. 222, Norman (JK 73069. ' I PI/JN'T !?1115£ MY50NW86 II Qf//1YeR, 1111? I'? \ .PERSONALS To the guys downstairs \\ love · . tl:lat cute blue underwear! The Aztec Calendar ended tl1fs swnmer withe the cosmic ,converg~nce. Start out this y-ear with a .piece of mind by bu~g a . G-reek ,cal~ndar sponsored by · .. Gamma Phi Beta. Proceeds go · to Cerebral Palsy. · · 1 c~n tell no untruths . LQrd knows you can bet your can We loves a goOd woman Th.Bmc grandn.Ia Brooks lla.lldSome - thanx for the c1lallce to show you what you're. worth. You won't regret it. l love you - your friend · Gorgeous Be1hy - Want to go look at tbEi ligiJts this weekend? You're a sweetheart. -Late Tues.<lay nigb.t with David BUD-Another year older, art()ther · year wiser, anotbeor year -.the surest thing of all! Love you, LAB Marnie, Hope you're as psyched as we are! You're special. .. Congratulations! Love in PKE, Wendy Congratulations Mamie! Y <Jtl deserve the best! Love in I?KE (n<lw you know) -Maia C()ngratulations Kris! Y()u're going to be great- don't fo.rget the keg on the field! -Maia Michelle+You are doing: a s11perjob! We're aU .psyched for msb. With love ih PKE 'Ihere were 6 at the bar and the (!rtmk one shouts Chug D~Wilr i\n()ther Round. 'This year the m1111ds never stop as we get psyched for a great year. ;I £()V6 Yfl, 1'411 .I · I IJ!{JJ y~ Wilt.. rt!Ke C/11<~ ·Of 1!iiiT EJ/6 1114T ZfJ' ON 'f(J(!R N(jj~ IS MY W~lf'r WV, Pl!fllf.? N061!, . MA. \ Homme, ru me mangues or .something like that. It's no fun being bitter without you! I'll send you a purple rose or some vodka..,. Oeuf lf you missed Friday night, you missed a good one. Way to party, DG and Ph(Delt! Marnifl,. ·· It's about time! Congrats. PKE Okie When are we going :to do the roommate-pizza thing, you two? lt's that you're scared of women., isn't it ... Matt- When I needed a friend yo1.1. were there. When I was sad you cheered me up -just by being yourself. I really don't know how to thank you for your $Upport. I guess the only thing I can say is lluv u buddy\ • Advanced statistics · • Unit conversion ' • 250 programmable commands and functions. • 60direct keyboard commands • Separate alpha and numeric keyboards • f9ur~ineLCD display • Infrared printer interface • :Foldill9 \clanl!)hell\ case . • Battery·poWer (3\ N\ Cells) Peppy Mfg. Sugg. Ret. $235 .$175 HP·41 HandHeld · COmputlng.System HP·41CV. Mfr. Sugg. Ret. $179 $1·26 HP·41CX Mfr. Sugg. Ret. $249 • Portable. Battery oper· ated. Carry the.HP-41 in your pocket or bl'ielcase. • Built-In (!peratlng system. J2Koperating system aiiCNIS for imme- diate solutions to com· plex·problems. • Four Input/output ports. Plug in ROM Software modules or add to existing memory capacity with plug-in memory ·modules. • HP41CY-2233 bytes of memory or 319 data registers. $179 • HP41CX,3t22.bytes of •send proof of purchase memory or 446 data to Hewlett-Packard and registerS plus lime anti receive FREE Advantage calendar functions. ROM Module: Offer good 8/15/87 Mfr. Sugg. Ret. $49 thru 10131/87 HP-12C ·financial Calculator $62.00* DQ ' . -- *Price reflects $10 mail· in The standard for Finance rebate from and Real Estate Hewlelt-Packard. • Solve Interest and $72 amortization problems · Elek·Tek Price • Discount cash'flCNIS ·10 Rebate · a Find bond yields & lllaturity dates $62. Your Final Cost • Determine deprecia- tion !ilChedutes • Examine business trenijs • HP11C Scientific Offer good 8115/87 thru 10/31187 pius shippings. handling • HPt5C Adv. lillentUlc • HPtiac Progrilmmer 181 1 HP18C Bitslnest Cortsultant $121 1 HP82240A~IR Printer-111CI28C $100 1 HP82104A Caf!ll Reader HP..41 $131 • HP82143A TM~mlil Prlntor..,.HN1$27!1 I HP2225 Thlnk.let Printer (All) . s3ao Aii HP Acceiaso!'lea Discounted 'fttol Fl;:ti HEWLETT . Allthorind a!'&i PACKARD Hewt:~::IUlrd CALL TOLL FREE .800.&21•1269 EXCEPT tu.illliiS, AWIIA CANADIAN TOLL FREE 800458·9133 Accessories discour~ted too .. MasterCard or Visa b:V phone or fl1aU. Mail cashier's check, li.1or\ey Old.! Pets Check. SGrry no C.O.D.'s. Add $4.00 1st I em(AK, HI,PR.~. add $10 1st Item) $1 ea add' I shpg & handl.l:ihpts toIL addre$S add 7'lb tax. Prlc:es subj to chan~e. Universil\1/college P.O:~s welcome. WfliTE rto calls) lor free cataiOIJ, I dent. r(lplat:emenfs wit in.30 da~s·of purchase for dele.ctlve mdse. only. ALL ELEK·TEK M!='RCHANOISE·ISBRANDNEW,1STQUALITV AND COMPLETE. ELEK·TEK 1 inc. t , ' r ~ I tl t ' ) I r (>,.\)I I~ I l' 1 . I ~, II 1 , I • '1 J t • .. - A Th FilE tor ch .an bo fru thi a thi ye UII ye: ye: ye J gr1 no all dh a.: ad th! sht · str thE thl .ev' no: un , YOI ki< lot \V() YO! be -

CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, Jf)tr7 P~~e 17 \. Absolutely No Experience Necessmrrl: The start of a new school year tneans a lot ·of new faces and tons of activities. For the crew club it means waking up early .and trucking down to the boathouse for on~ of those famous morning practices. One thing is for sure though, crew is a lot more than most people think. This year marks the fifth year of the newly reformed Union Crew .club. And if last year was any indication, this year promises to be the best year yet! Rowing is one of the fastest growing sports in America right now. It is .fantastic exercise and allows for both team and in- dividual achievements. They're a .strange breed, those rowing addicts. You've probably heard the:m. taklkmg about ergs, flails, shells and crabs. And the · strangest thing of all is that they seem completly convinced that these are things that everyone understands. Well, its not THAT bad, or.that tough to understand. . · - · When you think about it, if you can't catch a football or kick a soccer ball and if rugby looks, well it just looks like you wouldn't be any good at it, when you think like that; what could be·easier than sitting down in a boat and paddling around? I'm . not going. to say that crew is- ·easy by any means,. but if rou wantto give ita try ... DO IT!! If you are interested, A.B- 'SOLUTmLY NO . EX:~ PERIENCE NECESSARY!'!! ! Give crew a .chance. If you are a girl contact DA YID GASCOYNE ·tit BOX #573 or call, 346-4416 or- if you are a guy, call 381-6960 and leave a nu:;ssage. · So maybe you . aren't con- vinced. That's okay to(). Howev.:er, this weekend would be a great chance to checlt: otLt the whole pilenomenon. For .those who ·didn't know, t!:lis weekend is the annual Head of the Mohawk Reggatta. And guess what? It is held about 2 miles from campus. So if y()ur curiosity is up, and you want to · procrastinate (lway some of ~he .day at . about lpm Sunday {Remember, there will only be 'fake' football on t.v.) head on down tp the Aqueduct Rowing Club. Take Van Vranken- for about 2 miles lllltil you see t.he shells and the UNION CREW sign. Have a great time a-nd cheer ·on the people with the garnet .shirts:!t!! See you tbere!! • a.t .d l_ps:; fJr WorcLS ? ~6·Lb· ... ~~~ · <L • t.J:3a t}OLJ fJ #xJrs. 7 - 1D:OO , 'UlfLitdtiu- ?Jot}(S~ ~;~Pjar The Idol is now accepting poetry, artwork~ and short stori.es. We will be accepting submissions all of Fall Term. Send original pieces tiQ; Joy Cybul, Box 542 Union Fris:be·e Gives Veter,an R··p·l an:d SUNY A.lbany Something to Think About The Union Frisbee Team put out an impressive showing against RPI and SUNY Albany at Union's Girling Center, located about 3 miles off (l~actice. Tournamentsare:beld on selected weekends. The team is a good mixture of botll ex:- 1Jerienced and inex:perie!lcEd players looking to have fun a[]d ! . competiti()n in a friendly forum. Come by a11dsee what Ultimate Frisbee is all about. :Fflr more informatloll: e~ntact J.efi Tel. 372;.3863. · campus. Despite its youth the team gave SUNY Albany a run 'for their frisbee. Al~hough they . lost both games to the powerhouse Albany team, by scores of 15•7 and 18-11, the Women's Baskelball M.eeting ' young team. performed well. Union really showed its potential by coming from behind a 14-8 deficit to defeat the veteran RPI team by a score of 16-14. ; : / T : AU :thos~e ,inte.rested :in trying out for the 1987·$8 season must attend a meet,i ng The Frisbee Team is an in- tramural team which meets every weekday from 4 to 6 in the field in front of Riclunond for 1 i : . October 8, 1987 ' ·, ' A RXJTEilLL S'ffi\~ at ~8:30 ,p.m. in the Fieldhouse. . lffl~ IS Please contact Coach Gehli·n ~ if unable ·to atte11 d . ~DpJlmJ. . . . - . delivered on. the day of ·publicatio_n . _ . . '. . ' Fall Term . Weekdays (Mon.- F~i.J $1 o. 5o Weekdays (Mon~ - Sat.) 12.so Weekdays & Sunday Sunday Only 24.50 12.00 Winter Term $11.25 13.25 25.25 12.00 Full 1ear $34 .:25 4() ,!) 0 78..()0 3T..SO Chris Sheridan Box.No~4:70 346-3401 . ~ . ~t...~COM~Q ,,.. . \' Homecoming '87 - ~0 . 09~ ·g. . t!lv.nwn, ;4 '.Biggtr ., Pi ani '.Better 1.1\ ~GQ~AN\)~~· PROMOTIONAL DAY Thursday, October 1,.. 9:00am- 4:00 pm . Schaffer Library Plaza Last General Student H\mecoming Meeting Monday, October 5J 4:00pm in Room 409, ColJeg~ Center Pizza and Soda at this meeting! We hope to see everyone .whc attended the first meeting as well as any .interested newcomers. Come and ,meet new frie'3lds. It's a great way to get involved in whiit promises to be a .rousing weekend. ,. DAMBRO.SE CLEANERS 1517 van Vrankell A.ve. 374-5193 DRY CLEANIN!Il AND 'TAILOR lNG . ..

. I Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, October 1, 1987 Quarterback Shuffle By CHARLIE SLOTNIK. The Union College football team has three excellent Division III quarterbacks on their roster this year. Mike Gargiulo, Jim Poirier, and Tim Valachovic have all proven that they are capable leaders of the Dutchmen offensive attack, In 1985, Mike Gargiulo passed for 1,758 yards and la touch- downs while leaQing Union to an mdefeated regular season and the N.C.A.A. Division III quarterfinals. But, in 19S6 Gargiulo suffered an ankle injury during pre-season which sidelined him .for the entire campaign. Enter Tim Valachovic. Vala:chovic had never taken a varsity snap ill a collegiate game prior to last year, but nevertheless managed to lead the explosive Dutchmen to another Ulldefeated regular season and a spot in the N .C.A.A. playoffs. During the course of the season Valach()vic proved to be an acceptable replacement for Gargitllo .as he passed for 1,259 yards and 11 touchdowns, and was voted the team's most valuable player', However, many cr.ftics believed that despite the suc- cess the 1986 team had Wlder Valachovic, he still did not spark the offense in the same way Gargiulo had done the previous season. At times last · season it was necessary for Coach Al Eagnoli to bring in Freshman Jim Poirier to- relieve Valachovic. P()irier impressed tbe coaching staff, and even rallied the team to a come-from-behind vict<>ry against a strong Hamilton team. However, Valachovic remained the number one quarterback the entire season. During the 1987 preseason most of Union's players, fans, and especially the media were convinced that now with Gargiulo's ankle healthy he would be the number one quarterback. However, Bagnoli held the opposite view, and was not about to just give away the job of starting quarterback based on . previous ac- complishments. \The · media assumed Mike was going t() be handed the job, while it was really a wide open competition, and nobody really dominated,\ said Bagnoli. N,evertheless, Gargiulo initially appeared to hav-e won the position, and was given the start in the opener at Franklin and Marshall. But with the Dutchmen behind in the 3rd q11arter, Gargiulo was pulled al)d ·Poirier came in. Union ultimately lost 34-28, despite a late,~omeback. After the game the Union team, which was tanked sixth nationally, was shocked, Gargiulo was com- plaining about being yanked, a11dnobody was sure who would start against Rochester the following Saturday. ''Its tough playing with son1eone looking over your shoulder . . . \ said Poirier. Neither quarterback played poor-ly, as Gargiulo completed 9 of 18 passes, for 128 yards and o:ne touchdown, while Poirier com]>leted 15 of 23 for 172 yards and two touchdowns. However, a decision was made that Poir-ier would start against Rochester. In the 24-20 loss to Rochester, P()iiier played the first half, and completed 5 of 10 passes for 77 yards, threw one touchdown pass, and one interception. Gargiulo came in during the semnd half, and played well, b11t could not rally the offense. Be finished the day completing 10 of 20 passes for 141 yards t:browing· one touchdown and tw<> interceptions. 'l'he quarterback shuffle was YVell under way; neither Gargiulo or Poirier felt they had the complete confidence of the C()aches, Valachovic still had mt {llayed a down, and to make matters worse, Union was 0-2 for the first time since 1976. \It's tough playing with someone looking over your shonlder. When you start thillking about getting pulled o11t of the game is when you play bad.\ says Poirier. At this .. point in the season everyone associated with Union fo<Jt ball, the players, fans, and especially the coaches knew that the team should have one quarterback, but more im- portantly they needed to win Jim Poiri~r ... against Hobart. Against Hobart,. the Union defense won the game for- the team as they held the statesmen to just 3 points. Defensive tackle I don't want us to be playing revolving chairs e .. . Jim will start Saturday. . Greg Hallas broke a 3-3 tie with a touchdown. The offense was a bit erratic, as Poirier admits. \I've played better games than I did at Hobart, but the team woJJ and that!s what matters.\ Poirier ·completed 10 of sixteen for 121 yards throwing a one- yard touchdown pass and two intErceptions. With Union finally winning a game, and one quarterback playing the entire game, the quarterback shuffle could be ·over. \'I don't want to be playing revolving chairs. Jimmy performed well, we got the win, and Jim. will start Saturday against Colby. We need to try and get some stability, but there's no guarantee that will haJ>pen. If the occasion calls for a change there will be~a change, but hopefully not,\ added Bagnoli. Eoth Poirier and Gargiulo agi:ee that the team has to go with one quarterback. \There has to be one man at that Po£iton, and after last week's will the outlook is positive no matter who's at that position,'' sa;ys Poirier. ~'It is extremely important to go with one quarterback. All along I think I should be the quarterback, but that's up to the coa<!hes, whoever wins the position wins,\ says Gargiulo. Who will it be coach? Oinncnrbitnsi·s SPORTS ' Frustrated Ruggers Shut Down by· Colonials Ry LESSMcFLY Sometimes·, just when it is thought that things are going. · great~itseems that ~hey aret:t't • going as great as they appear .. Take, for instance, Union rugby. After annhilation RPI last weekend 3841, it is hard to comprehend that they lost to Hamilton 9:-;0this. weekend. Hamifton took a quicklead in . the ga:me on the first play if the · match, Union committed a very danger()liS .penalty deep in their own enc:l, and Hamilt-on con- verted a penalty kick for a quick three points. Union sometimes has a difficult time bouncing back from al1 early deficit. Thus, finding therri· · selves behind so early in the game could ·have put them at a servere psychological disad- vantage. About ten minutes later, they had a chance to tie up the game when Hamilton commited a penalty from about 40 meters out. Junior Chris SHeridan missed the kick wide to the left, however, and. Union found themselves still behind by three. Sberidan had yet another chancei11 the first half to tie the game but missed another -penalty kick-again from around 40 meters and again wide t() tbe left. Hamilton has a chance to put a try 1ln the board, but it was · spoiled by the heads up play by Pat DLCierbo who fell on a Hamilton ball in his own try- zone. The half ended with the 3- 0margin. The second half scoring belong to Hamilton. Their lone try was scored when their left wing picked up a ball which was kicked down into the corner of the field. Fie raced into the try- zone for four, and the kicker added an extra two with a successful conversion~94l. It seemed that for the duration of the sec.ond half, Hamilton could do nothing right. Captian Jody Perkins blamed part of the reason for the loss on the fact that the serum was n.ot binding to each other on the IineoU:ts, thus letting the other team. through to peund scrwn-half Marty Buonoconti, whose job it is to get the ba:ll out on the line. The serum lost many of their serum- downs, and the line seemed to have a hard time holding onto the ball without dropping it. All of these reasons, added· onto the fact that Hamilton played good rugby all accounted for the fact that Unim gained their first loss of the season and now has a record that reads· 1-1. A frustrated Sheridan .also had a ,chanee !iHhe end of the game to .put three on· the board for - Union, but his 40 meter kick into the wind was once again-yes-wide to the left. The Killer B's were a little ·more successful. They played to a 3-3 tie with the Hamilton B team. Union went ahead first thanks to a 22 meter penalty kick by Jason Lawitt. Union's lead disappeared when Hamilton came right back and hit a long penalty kick of their own for three. The game ended with the two teams tied 3-3. or Mike Gargiulo ; ' [,

CONCORDIENS~S, Octo/Jer 1, 1987 Page 19 By CHRIS HINCKLEY If any other athletic team at . Union College began their season with two losses it wouldn't raise too many eyebrows, but in the case of the 'football team, all hell ·broke loose. The Dutchmen Gridders ·have definitely had their share of problems, but througho11t the adjt.J.stmemts and correctiom;; there has been one element that has performed consistently well. That element is Senior defensive end Richard Romer, this week's Athlete of the Week. In the Dutchmen's opener vs. Franklin and Marshall, Romer recorded siK tackles and two assists. These are stats that the average player would record in a whole game, however Romer, due to dizzy spells, .played onLy half the game. · Against Rochester, Rich played a full .game and he Rich Romer i-ack:ed up five tackles and six ·flssists, once again leading the Dtdchmen defensive unit. [n Union's first win, it was R()-mer's hit on the Hobart quarterback which capsed the !)all to land in the arms of his tea:IIliiiate Gregg Hallas who we11t on to score for the Dut- cllrnen. To date, Rich leads the team with 16 tackles and 29 assists, and since freshman year ne has led the squad in sacks. Ricb's play has earned him All~Americah recognition. He was also named to the Associated Press' first team last year. Most impressively, though, is the fact that Romer has the potential to --play professional football. This year he will he scouted by at least six NFL teams and has a good chance of joining the illustrious ranks of those Div. III football · players who have made it to the NFL. The 6'3\ Romer is a seniQr at Union and a brother at the Sigma Cbi Fraternity. He comes from E. Greenbush, N.Y. where he was a standout athlete for Columbia High School. Again, Congratulations and good luck to this week's Athlete of the Week, Richard Romer. Oarsmen :Establish Tradition at Home and Abroad By KRISBURNHAM On the heels of their best season ever, the Union College Crew Club sent a boat to the most prestigious race in the world, the Henley Regatta in England. The race took place over the summer in Great Britain.· Although the main event was the Henley Regatta itself, the Union crew par- ticipated in three races total. A day after graduation, last June, eleven Union men hopped aboard a plane bound for the famous Henley Regatta. The grou,p included: David Gascoyne, David Jones, Rich Chandler, .John Lovisolo, John Wyatt, Cad Shul<;lt, Grfeg Clarke, Mark Burton, Ted Eveleth, David Sveden, Joe ai.tllough everyone including the rowers themselves, expected mu~h more. Both of the novice programs had their best years · eve.l', which leads crew~wat­ chM:s to believe that Union Crew may be a force to be rec()ned with for quite a while. - lT nion competed in many regattas throughput · the year iltcluding the Head of the Cllarles held in Boston during tile .fall and the Daid Vails in P11iladelphia in the spring. The Daid Vails (pronounced dad vails) is considered the most irii[)Oitant race fopr all crews in Ulllon's class. Both the mens Var-sity B and the women's .cvar-sit,£: B made it to the finals tlure this year. This ac- (OIQplishment in itself was the 1alk: of the boathouse row as the Dutchmen rowers prepare for Henley Reg.atta in England. Murphy and John Ciovacco as history of Union's progr;:qn is of . ~coa¢h., Fo.t Ciovacco, tPJs, w;;ts co:mm.onAAaW.le4ie. In the end~ , , the . C!ulmination of .a~. ; .ol. hjs t!1e Jl\1)n:$~.~iijJfi~ea.D.th Qut 'Of a , . , effor~ in reorgal)izing 'Union field ~ht1t ·l~~Juded . upw~rd of ·. Cre.w ;do.dng Ills .four ye~rs as · 300 ~t:e'Ys!. ft. would have ,been an uQd~r.graduate at'Ui:Jio~. The easy t~ r~t.(}il tb~se ·h,~urels, but club had not existed at Union off :to England for Henley they' for m~ny years; bU,t as a \Vent. ' freshman, with the help of the Unlike most Jtegattas here in administration and everyone the u.s., Henley fields a highly · else who could' be enlisted, inter11ational field and instead Union Crew enjoyed a genesis. of 1lle great powers being crews Last year Union Crew had its lilce Georgetown, Cincinnati, most successful season to date and Fl'l\ in England they saw as the· men beat Ithaca, a the likes of Yale, Princeton, the perennial nemesis and C<tn:;~dian and Russian national Georgetown and Cincinnati, teams. · :Getting to Henley was nationally strong crews. The ac()omplished after much hard women also had a strong season work, both .in the boats and out of them. The administration has · always been a great support to the club and their help with fundraising was greatly ap- preciated. Even with that support, it cost $1500 a manto go to Britain and extra fundraising efforts to cover costs were needed. The guys arrived in England and started practicing in a rented boat (logistics require overseas crews to borrow boats). One day before their first race, disaster struck as they crashed their boat, ripped a hole in it and broke an oar. Their only recourse was to send home for an extra oar and borrow another boat before their next race. They finally got a new boat with a whopping 30 mintues to spare. Needless to say they did not perform up to their potential at Marlow. Mter some time in London sightseeing, ·and after their British host families had taken care of them for a week, the Union mighty were ready to assault any adversaries. The stage was .set at the Redding Regatta and the victory was theirs. The Union crew made a great showing winning the Senior B eights, beating a few English crews along the way. The third week was upon - them and with it, the prestigious Henley Regatta. Unlike most Regattas, Henley operates on a match system, with single elimination. Despite the previous week's victory, Uniohn was eliminated in the first round. Dave G11scoyne. a participant remarked. \Although we'd hoped to fare better at Henley, it was all worth it-just to be there and experience it all. It was great.\ Ted Evelethand Dave Sveden were along as the . •spare .pair' ready to jump in should illness or injury ~play a role with. the · starting 'eight. They did not race at HeQiey as the annual 'Spare Pair Race' was cancelled. Ted and Dave did make a few practice rows . but on the big days, . the starters always seemed healthy and fit. Looking back upon the very short four years of the new Union Crew, everyone should be impressed with the acM complishments of those who went and everyone who has given their time and energy to Union Crew. CHnncnrititnsis SPORT'S The final week of the 1987 baseball season has finally arrived. Usually by this point most of the divisional races are over or on the verge of being over. However, this year two of the four divisions are still in the midst of heated pennant races and the other two have just concluded. The San Francisco Giants and the Minnesota Twins are the two teams that have won their divisions. These divisions were not decided easily either, though. First, the Reds led the NL West by ahnost five games at one time until they hit a serious slump in August which put them back into a hole that they could not get out of. Eric Davis had an MVP type of year but the team folded during the k:ey time of the season. On the other hand, the Giants made some late season acquisitions which brought them Doug Dravecky and Rick Reushel for several pitchers, and third baseman Chris Brown. Since corning over to the Giants the two pitchers have solidified what was once a weak pitching staff. Since coming over from the Padres Kevin Mitchellhas played ex- cellent baseball. He could come back to haU11t his old Met teammates if the Mets win the East. The AL West had a battle of its own going on. Oakland, Minnesota and Kansas City kicked aroimd the lead for some. time before Minnesota finally took control of the situation. They keys to Minnesota's success lie in the home run hitting of Hrbek, the out- standing fielding and batting of Pucket, and the outstanding relief pitching of Reardon. In addition, Gary Gaetti has batted in over 100 RBI's. Oakland and Kansas City just didn't have the output to keep up with the Twins. The NL .East is getting ex- tremely pathetic. St. Louis is having a horrible sec;!ond half, the Mets couldn't capitalize off of St. Louis' losses and Mon- treal can't put together a good string of games. I feel that either the Mets or Montreal will take the crown. Montreal has a four game series with the Cards this week and so far this year they have dominated them. If the Mets beat the Phillies while Montreal beats the Cards that should sew it up for the Mets. It is a very strange situation. Now t~at the Mets' pitchers are all healthy (with the exception of Ron Darling) they nave no . more excuses for losing. Over the past month, the M.ets have lost at least 10 games which they should have won. They have left the most rUI1ners on base in the NL and in a handful of games over the past two weeks they have bad the bases loaded in the ninth .inning only Not In th~e Box Score by Mark Zimmerman to come away empty handed. The Cardinals bave had the best opportunities to win the East but have not ,been able to put it away. Recently, the Pirates and Cubs have cost both the Cards and Mets a few games in the standings. At the .pace they are on now, the last three games of t~e season in St. Louis should be where it is decided. If it does <:orne down to those three games I would have to give the Mets the advantage. St. Louis has an injured Jack Clark and a poor consistency rate while the Mets have the 'red hot bats of DarrylStrawberry, Howard Johnson and Kevin McReynolds. At last we reach the AL East where the Yankees are about to clinch the . . . oh, sorry that was last month. Following the Yankees steady plunge from first place the Tigers and Blue Jays have staged a pennant race of their own. As of now, Detroit is two games behind Toronto, however, with the way th~se two teams have been playing, anything could happen during their series the last three games of the season. The last three times the two teams have played, the game has been decided by one or two runs. As fortbe Yankees, they began ·their decline in .late August. The problem there was that they totally forgot how to win, and, in addition, they lost games to teams like Cleveland, Baltimore and Boston· which could have put them on a winning track. This season's AL and NL MVP's would have to be George Bell · and Andre Dawson respectively. Bell is hitting .317 with 47 homers and a major league leading 133 REI's. Dawson has been putting on a show in Chicago that is simply extraordinary. Since signing onwith the Cubs at a noticeable pay cut from his Montreal days, he has proeeded to hit a league leading 46 homers, and another league leading 131 RBI's. The Cubs are 17 games out as of now; however, without Andre they would be at least 25 games out. Other players in both leagues have had g<>od streaks, but none have been more consistent than Bell or Dawson. The Rookies of the Year would have to be Mark MeG wire and Beninto Santiago. McGwire set a major league rookie home run record with 48 (at time of print) a.nd has been the catalyst on the A's. San· tiago, the Padre's catcher, ha~ also been the key to his team·!> late season success. This past week be set a ro<>kie record when he hit safely in his 27th straight game. In case you're W()ndering, his bat has never been checked for cork, but tbete is stfll a week left in the season! SUPPORT UNION SPORTS \ - < •'

·Page 20 CONCORPIBNSIS, Octobtr 1, 1987 Football Bounces October 1, 1987 Gridders Record First Win ... Defeated tough Binghamton team By ANDREW MILLER Their backs were to the wall. The Dutchmen, the team that had made it to the Division III .playoffs for the past four years, llad come to an impasse. \This was as close to a must-win game as we're going to get,'' luad coach Al Bagnoli ad- mitted. They had come to the f<Jrk in the road, and it was time tCJ get on a winning path. and set up both Dutchmen touchdowns. The first came from the unlikely source of defensive tackle Greg Hallas. Hallas was in the right place at the right time as the sophornol\e tackle caught a fumble, jarre\d loose by defensive end Ric:b Romer, and scampered ~5 yards for the touchdown. It was a sign of good things to come f<»r Union. third quarter completed the scoring. The Hobart game was Union's most impressive defensive effort of the year. Hobart coach Dick Taylor praised the Dut- chmen's defensive effort, saying \their defense played better than we thought they would, they are a very misleading 1-2 team.\ Dutchmen Booters Continue Winning Ways After dropping their opener, 34-28, to Franklin and Marshall, Union was again upended, 24-20, lly Rochesterto fall to 0-2, their Wl)rst start in recent memory. The Hobart game was the op- portunity the Dutchmen were }OI)king for to prove themselves. H()bart, previously 2-0, was riding high coming into last Saturday's homecoming game. Defense was the name of the game as the Dutchmen yielded 011ly three points on route to an 111-a victory. Union defense held Hobart to only 218 total yards The second Union score, a .six· yard pass from quarterbaek Jim Poirier to wide receiver Cecil Bright, was the result of more solid defense. A. long, hig:h kickoff by freshman Jaso-n Krause to start off the secomd half went through the out· stretched hands of Hobart\s kick returner, and out of bounds at the Statemen's one-yard line. On first down, a miscued sna:p was recovered by sophom()r-e linebacker Tom McMahon to set the stage for Poirier's TD pass. A 42-yard field goal by BOtb Anderson as time ran out i11 tile \We're not as bad as our first two games. I don't want to make some excuses but we had some problems,\ commented Bagnoli after his first win· of the season. The Dutchmen are not a bad team. This 0-2 start proved only one thing, they are hwnan. Union football fans of late have developed Celticitis. Like Boston Celtic fans, they ex:pect their team to be in the cham- pionship game year after year. It just doesn't work like that. The Dutchmen deserve our support more than our scorn. This past Saturday Union traveled to Binghamton for its fourth game of the season. The result was a 2-0 victory which upped the Dutchmen's vecord to 3-0-1. The loss was the first for Binghamton which now has a 5- 1-1 record. Prior to the game, Binghamton was ranked fourth in the nation in Division III. Coach B(}b Magee knew that he would have to have a tough offense in order to overcome the fine defense that Binghamton is known to bave. Union seemed to have no problems fUlfilling this task. The game was a very well- . played game by both sides. The score was deadlocked until fifteen minutes left in the second period when Dave Cope scored ona 2(),.yard direct kick which bounced off of the goalpost. Coach Magee felt that at this point Binghamton went flat. The goal was only the sec()nd goal that had been sco:red UPQn Binghamton all year. Ten and a half minutes later, Union scored again. Dave Cope fed a ball through to Jeff Barker who broke away and scored on a shot from about 18 yards out. Union was playing its , first game without Chris Avery, a transfer student from California. Avery suffered a bro-ken am1 in Union's victory over Hamilton last Wednesday. C<Jach Magee felt that the injury to Avery would put additional prf;ssure on senior Dave Tewsbury. Magee felt . tl:rat Tewksbury would be the guy to take control and carry the team. Union is playing with a very young team this year and witil the results that they have already shown this team could beaforcefor the next few years to come. o •• Colby Thumbnails ~ .. Look towards Vassar Last year's 44-6 trouncing of Colby will play an all-New Colby was Union's fifth con- England Small College Athletic secutive win over the Mules. Conference (NESCAC) ( a5 yrs. per game) and Darrell Shepherd (onetd., 27.7 yrds. per game). The season series began back in schedule. Key Stat: Mule quarterback Field Hockey Has Successful Start 19:37. It was the i11famous 10-:1 Colby: the Mules posted a 1·7 Chris White has been in- Homecoming crashing of 1981 record in head coach Tom tercepted six times in his first The Union Field Hockey team th~t catapulted Colby into the Austin's first season last year. two games. Union has has opened its 1987 season. spotlight. Since 1981, the Dut- Colby dropped their first two. averaged 44.3 yards per game, Coming out of a. grueling pre- ell men have taken sweet home openers in Waterville t«J Dutchmen opponents have season, the Lady Dutchmen dug revenge on the gridders from WPI (24-15), and Hamilton (:1L• averaged 155.3 yards per game. . down deep to pull off a 2-1 C()lby, Sawyer sweeping its last 0). Obscure State of the week: overtime victory. The game five matchups in grand fashion. Player to watch: sophomorE played on a steamy afternoon [n 1983, Union embarrassed tailback Brian Cooley. Colley Through its first three games, saw fine pefrormances from C b h h d f 11 c. d t t 1 · Union's wide receiver Matt O.lby 49-0. In '85 and '86 ol y as rus e or d yr s. o a • un J\unio. r forward Kris Tierney and d h. f\ st t d II Smith's 14 catches resulted in .fared little better with 46-7, an IS lr wo games an as senior mid-fielder, co-captain 44-6 losses. This will be the last scored the team's lone rushil)g 251 receiving yards. This almost Carolyn zutell. After a slow year for a Union-Colby mat- touchdown. For the Dutchmem, doubles the toti!l output of start the :first half ended with e_h.:.:.:tt::,:P:.:,·_:.:A::ft~e:._r.:th~e-'_87 __ ·s-:e_a~so::-n...:.' __ w_a_t-:ch:--fo_r_f_u_llb.::..' a_c_k_R-:::y;;;;an;;;:-M-a_so_m __ u_n_i_o-:n';;s;,;;;g:-r-oun_d_ga_m_e_< .... 1 3_3_)_.---:l Union trB!iling, 1.(). The team - · ·· s · came back in the second half U n I • 0 n. H a r r I. a· rs·· 0 p e· .· :n . e as 0 n with a goal by Tierney .assisted. by Alison Pallota and Kristy · Rodenhiser. Both teams con- tinued to battle itout until the sound of ttu~ whistle ended regulation time. In overtime, a goal netted by SQphomore Ann Mulvaney led the team to victory. Freshmen Lynn Hyde and Kat Joscelyn both turned in fine performances in their varsity debut. The Union College men's and women's cross-country teams opened their seasons last :weekend at the Williams C()llege Invitational. While neither team . placed highly, b()th showed promise for the llpcoming meets with some · excellent individual per- f CJrmances. The highest finish of the day came from Senior Jenny Lee. Lee finished 12th in the 5 kilometer women's race, covering the rolling hills of the course in 20:08. She was fdlowed closely by a surprising freshman, Kara Merrill, who ran a strong 20:33 to finish 22nd in her first collegiate race. Sherry Cargile's 83rd place (22:55) and Jen Regan's 87th place (23: 00) rounded out tlte women's team Because of an injury to their fifth funner, tile women were unable to field .a complete team. The men's team in the Ill- vitational, won by Westfielcrl State. The Dutclunen were led by an outstanding race turned in by Senior Jim LeBrou, whose time of 27:38 over the scenitD men's 8 kilometer course goit him 14th place in the field of 11:2 runners. Seniors Steve Szydlik and Dave DeFilippo, were the next two Union competitors across the line, placing 24tb (27 :57) and :35th (28:38)., respectively. Rounding ()Ut Union's top five were Juni\()r- Wayne Kotary (65th in 29:t)7) and Sophomore Jim Campoli, who made his scoring debut with an 81st place. time of 31 : 03 .. Also running strongly fior Union, but in a special Freshman 5 kilometer race, were Dave Steen who picked up 6th place (18:07) with a strong finish, and Doug Martocci, 9th in 18:35. · Both the men's and women's teams will be up against Hamilton on Saturday af- ternoon (2 p.m.) in Central Park. The Continentals, who finished ahead of Union in both the men's and women's racesat Williams, shOuld nevertheless lle hard pressed by the Dut:- chmenon the faster Central Park Course. On the road again . for the . second game the Lady Dut- . clunen all~wed Hamilton to set the mood .at Lone Field. Again, · Union trailed at halftime with a · score of 3.(). In second-haU · action Union outshot Hamilton · 12•2 and succeeded in scoring two goals. Unfortunately this was not enough to capture a victory aa Hamilton walked away with a 4-2 victory. Union's goals were scored by Pallota and. Tierney. Senior co-captain Fran Grajha played a fine de.fensive game while Hyde and 'Tierney di~ a great job on the offensive line. Finding themselves on their bome turf, the {Jady Dutchmen sparkled as a unit in their home ope11er. Senior Jean Monaco had a superb game in the goal c:Jage for Union with 12 saves. Union triumphed over the tmdefeated Lady Hornets. The strong stic~ of Kris Tierney ~gain gave Union the winning ~oal. A dazzling performance by Senior Kristy Rodenheiser also sparked the Union of- fensive threat, while co-captain Carolyn Zutell played a solid defensive game. Early the following morning lJnion defeated Wells with a ·score of 7..0. At halftime the score was 2-0., both goals were · scO>red by Tierney. In the sec()nd half the Lady DUtchmen ~cored five goals. The flashy 5tickwork of jWJior Courtney Lynch and Lynn Hyde put in t!fo ea~h goals each while Rodenheiser scored a picture- perfect goal. Tile Lady Dutchmen will. be on the road again this Satw:day to face Vasser.

CXVJI, No •. 3 P~ofessor Sf:larlet has hopes and plans for student exchange. Union Plans Student Exchange with U.S~S.R. By STEVEN COLE freshmen and will room, with regul!lr Union-.students without th€ presence of political chaperpp.es. T.be. students . are expected to come to the U.S. in August for a month of orien- tation to Ameriea and the · American college campus. Beer may be as good as book:s. As Professor Sharlet of · the po~tical science depart- ment indicated, ''America is a very intoxicating society.\ In Contlnueci on page 2 1877 Students Involved in Assault Suspended By LEE ANN SCHMIDT Saiurday morning at 1:30 a.m. Freslnilan Pat Morrissey encountered upperclassmen, Toqy O'Brien and Chris Hun- tingt()n, in the stairwell of the Fox dormitory while escorting a )l()ung women back to her room there. After a verbal excllange, a fight broke ·'out which resulted in multiple in- juries to Morrissey, and a trip to tbe hospital. Tile two upperclassmen participated in the assault against Morrissey in which he inclll'red a broken nose and multiple facial contusions. Se~urity responded to a call from a student, and took Morrissey to Ellis Hospital. Nolle of the students men- tionEd above returned Con- corlliensis' calls Tuesday, refru!lng to comment on the incident. . Dean. of Students Joseph Mamrnola indicated that . '' the -Administration-has reviewed the inciclent and appropriate dis- ciplillary measures are being · taken, according to the College Judicial Code.\ The procedure for adjudiciating charges agai11st individuals states that: The accused may choose to have the charges heard either by the Subcoun~il on Student Conduct or elect an ad- ministrative review by the assistant dean of students who will serve as the principal in- vestigator, conduct the ad- ministrative review, detemine findings of fact, and make recommendations for · disposition to the dean of students (Student Handbook, p. 42). The accused individuals chose to have an administrative review. When contacted by Con- cordieosis Wednesday evening, Dean Mammola indicated that, following administrati.ve review, the accused have been found guilty of the charges and have been suspended from. the college, effective October 8, for at least a one year period. O'Brien and Huntington decided on Wednesday to ap- pealthis decision. Maminola did\ stress that, · \The use of violence in our community will not be tolerated. When the college l~arns of incidents involving viOlence, and assailants are identified, the most severe disciplinary sanctions will be taken.\ The Schenectady Police department stated that as of Wednesday, October 7, assault and battery charges had not yet been filed. October 8, 1987 Union Endures Earliest Snowstorm on Record Fares Better Than Much of Immediate Area By KRIS BUitMIAM and DUSTY ~()HEN On October 4th, the earliest snowstorm on rec~rd pounded most of New England and New York. Although the Capital district was spared much of the brunt of the snow, the average snowfall was recorded at 4%-5 ~ inches. The heaviest snows fell · around our a1·ea · in western Massachusetts and in upstate New York, just south of Albany, where snowfall was measured at 18 to 20 inches. The resulting chaos of the storm included widespread power failures and downed trees. Here at Union, the snow caused S()me power outages, but compai\ed to the problems that people are still dealing with, Union's dif- ficulties were minimal. Union has agreed to accept two or thre!! Soviet students wr the 1988-9 academic year. Cooperating with seventeen other top-rated liberal arts schools, the program should host neatly fifty Soviet un- dergraduates. This program is different, in several respects,; from previous educational exchanges between the U.S. and U .S.S..R. Eventually, this program is. designed to .()£fer- American students acces~ to a year abroad in the Soviet Union. In its first year of operation Union estimates about $6()-,00() will be ·allocated for three NYS Legi,slators Predict ·Cuomo Candidacy Part of the reason that the storm caused sucb havoc, was that the National Weather Service and local meteorologists misjudged the strength of the storm. Although they did predict sno\V flurries in higher elevations, there was no forecast for such an over- whelming storm. The arrival of such an early storm is a visiting students. · Although there seems to be agreement on all.sides of the program, and confidence seems very high, President Mot·ris says, \Things are only in the discussion stage.\ The deal will ·not be finalized until late fall or early winter. Union has ~not officially committed itself to the program, nor is there a decision \ yet made where the financial resources for the budget will be attained. Adininistrative costs for the first year will be covered by Middlebury College, whicll under the leadership of their President Robinson is the cornerstone\ of the e~change, and liaison with the Soviets. There seem to be several fundamental differences be- , tween this exchange and other previous attempts. The first would be a new and un· paralleled aura of ope11ness regarding American in· teraction with young Soviet citizens. Secondly, students will be selecting undergraduate courses in liberal arts areas instead of the usual high-technology sCience courses that graduate level Sovietstudentscrave. However, it is expected that all will take a full year of in- troductory computer programming, which the U.S.S.R. could not offer. Ex:- change stu~ents are expected to be a~ut the age of incollli.ng :By-DAVID GULLIVER Although New Hampshire, • Iowa, and the South don't know it yet, Governor Mario Cuomo is running for president. Cuomo may not even know it himself, but that's the opinion of the vast majority of the state legislature and several prominent adadem.ics. In an infOI'mal poll of the legislature last week, politicians ex- pressing an opinion all said they foresee a Cuomo candidacy in · 1988. Out of lS senators and assemblymen responding, 14 dearly indicatEd that they believe he will run for President in 1938. The Albany Newspaper, The Legislative Gazette, contacted 30 legislators, asking the question, \Do you believe Governor Cuomo helped .himself with bis ttip to the Soviet Union?\ The question was designed t() allow for a variety of respo11ses, and most tookthe opportunity to predict a Cuomo campaign. T11e opinions were not divided along party lines. While Republicans criticized Cuomo . for spending time abroad, and Dem()crats praised him .for ex:pandfug his h()ri2()ns, all saw the Soviet Union trip as a sign that Cuomo is thinking .presidency. One major cl'iticism of Cuomo as a potential President is that be has traveled little outside of the country, and had no dealings with the SoViet Unio11. Although Cuomo says the trip's purpose was to promote trade between his state and their country, onlookers say it was a response to that critkism. When. one Gazette writer contacted Assemblyman Neil Kelleher, (R-Troy). Kelleher spoke of Cuomo's campaign in the present . tense. When remillded that Cuomo was not yet :running, he laughed and said, ''That may be what he's saying, but here we all know better.\ Political Science Professor Chades Tidmarch said that Cuomo, because of his high name recognition in the North, could wait until the eve of the New Hampshire primary to declare, or possibly skip New Hampshire and wait for Iowa. However, he would have to prepare for Super Tuesday, when all the southern primaries are on the same day, and where he has less name recognition. Most political writers still see Cuomo as the strongest can- didate, although he has not yet declared, because the other strong Democrats are bringing each other down. Photo or tne week: Remnants of the earliest snowstor.m. pll()toby Rebecca Smith · · nightmare for power- companies as the groW1d was not yet frozen and the leaves on the trees had not yet fallen. 'ffle biggest threat to power lines are downed trees, and under these conditions, the number of branches and trees that fell over power lines was astronomical. Sunday afternoo11 saw the Massachusetts Turnpilte closed and it is estimated that nearly 300 travelers were stranded. At least six deaths were linked to the storm including the death of a man whose truck was hit by a tree that collapsed under the weight of snow. Millions of dollars for property damage and undeterdmined totals of lost revenues were also at- tributed to the storm. Throughout the path. of the storm, it is estimated that 418,000 homes and businesses were without powe!\. In New York alone, there were 331,000 without power and by Monday only half had regained the use of their electrical systems. The cleanup requ.il'ed more manpower than was available from regular highway ~rews, so that nearly 200 state prison . inmates joined in tlle effort to clear fallen debris from roadways in New York State. Some major thor()ugllfares have' re-opened but the majority of state ,Bild local roads remained closed -as of Continued oil RIISJ• 3

Page 2 Alcohol Awareness Spurns Increases i.n Greeks' Insurance (I.P.) - University of Maine fraternities are ·· paying · thousands of dollars more for insurance coverage than they w~r~ just a few years ago, said William Lucy, associate dean of Student Activities and Organizations. \'Premiums for fraternities have tripled and quadrupled compared to just three and four years ago,\ he said. Lucy said the sharp rise in premiums was due to a national · increase in alcohol awareness. \It's the expectation of society,\ he said. \They are calling for a change in attitudes about alcohol and to not be consistent with that trend means that yo11 will get called out.\ Lawsuits in the millions of dollars have been brought against fraternities for alcohol- related problems, he said. Lucy said many of the national fraternity headquarters have been putting pressure on their chapters to be more respon- sible. \Insurance companies are backing away and many fraternities are having a hard time finding one that will insure them,\ he said. Lucy said this problem has ledto many fraternities pooling their funds and insuring themselves. Guy Abernathey, the director of finance at Kappa Sigma's national headquarters in Virginia, disagrees. ''We haven't had any kind of a problem finding coverage for our fraternity ;• he said. Kappa Sigma is in a group of eight fraternities that have pooled their funds and insured themselves. Abemathey said the fraternity is in that group for \purely economic reasons\ and not because of any problem with getting coverage from an insurance company. CONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1987 Storm Wreaks Havoc in Upstate New_ York, and Western Mass. Continued from page 1 Tuesday. The Albany County Airport was closed ,for ,much of Sunday, stranding even more travelers, but by Monday although open and without power, limited service was available. without power and West College was opened fl)r people to study and keep wa.rm. Aside from power generated by a back-up generator, even the College Center was darkened by the storm. All in all, Union as a Associate Dean of Faculty, Terry Weiner, supports curricular enhancement. On Sunday, those without power were directed to shelters that were open throughout the area. Because there was little or no realistic idea about how long power would stay· off, the emergency shelters were prepared to remain open in- definitely. Ina New York Times report, it was stated that over 800 people remained in shelters on Tuesday. These shelters included firehouses, nursing homes and other centers set up by state .and-local officials. The · whole,, .fared mucll better than surrounding areas. In Scotia, just over the bridge, power had not been regained, in some spots. until Tuesday night. Union did not suffer any problems witb water, however, some areas 'neatoy have had major plumbiilg difficulties·due Discussion of The Closing of The American Mind to Kick Off F~culty Book Review · Red Cross helped in supplying . cots, blankets, food and other emer.:gericy supplies . to the storm. Although pain lingers the snow has melted. The autumn sun has ~rase:d all remnants\ of our early winter. The eal\liest snowstorm 10n record has caused, muclt grief and hard- ship, but efficient ad• ministration and cleanup have alleviated IJl()tSt of the problem caused by tile snow. Here at Union, althollgh we were not drastically affected, problems did arise. ThE difficulties here wre overcome quickly and painlessly. By JOHN COHN This month will be the start of a new faculty-student reading and discussion project. Using the input of Associate Dean of Undergraduate Studies William Daniels and Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, Dean of Faculty Terry Weiner described the program as one whose aim is, \To feature a best selling book at the new campus bookstore. The purpose is to provoke the academic com- munity and enhance intellectual discussion at \Union.\ Weiner added that the · book of the month, \would be the feature of the new bookstore at a discounted rate.\ ''A discussion follow up of the books will take place in · the Cabaret area of the new Dutch Hollow.\ \The hope,\ said Dean Weiner, \is the creation of alive and vibrant talks headed by a faculty moderator. It is important to stress the point that this is to be an open discussion rather than a lee~ ture, creating an informal, relaxed atmosphere for the students.\ This month's book is entitled The Closing of the American Mind, by Allan Bloom. The book itself is an attack not only on the student, but the whole academic community. Bloom accuses students of being culturally illiterate and this being the fault of the university. The book even goes on to claim that Rock and Roll music is not music and could even be considered ima moral. Here at Union, West College, Hickock HOllS.e, Raymond House, TDCbi and Potter House ·· all had power. However, down campus, most everyone was \These are ideas that·people in college should be aware of and take seriously.\ said the Dean. The opep discussion will take place October 14 at 1 p.m. in the Cabaret area of the campus center. All are welcome to attena. even those who haven't seen the book, added the Dean. \We are committed to this and believe it is a useful thing to do. We will see that it works,\ stated Weiner. The . funds come from a grant to help support curricular enhan-. cement. The president's ac• count from the Hewlett-Mellon grant, an external fund, will allow for the books to be sold at the discounted rate. Union Review of Books \Most students· will be content with wllat our present considers relevant; others will have a spirit of entlmsiasm that subsides as family and and ambition provide them with other objects of interest; a small number will spend their lives in an effort to be autonomous. It is for these last, especially, that liberal education exists. They become the mode:ls for the use of the noblest h,uman faculties and hence are benefactors to all of us, more for what they are .than for what they do. Without their presence (!IIld, one should add, without their being respectable), no society-no matter how rich or comfortable:, no matter how technically adept or full ·Of tender sentiments:-can be called civilized.\ Objective: Monthly discussion open to the campus com- munity-faculry, staff & students-involving a' book selected for its visibility and potential interest tQ .the community. Meeting dates are the second Wednesday of each month throughou.t the academic school year from 1:0(} to 2:00p.m. at the College Center. First Selection Alan Bloom, The Closing of the American Mind: Education and the Crisis of Reason (19.87). On sale at the Campus Store at a discount for $10.00. Wednesday, October 14, 1!JS7 In the Cabaret, <;ollege Center, l:{J() p.m. Mediators: Professors Felmon Davis & Mark Tober Introduction: President John Morris As of October 4, 1987 the following clubs' budgets have been frozen due to lack of interest: Amnesty International Dance Ensemble Math Club Ski Club Spanish Club Wom,en's Network Yoga / The officers of these ·g clubs have until October 20 to contact a member of the finance committee to explain the reasons for inactivity thus far. If you are not presently an officer but would like to get invo'lved in these clubs please contact Mrs. Marra. 'If no interest is shown by October .20, the funds previously aUocated to the clubs will be absorbed' into the General fund. I I 1' ' j 1 j I

Page ::2 CONCORDlENSIS, October 8,. 1987 Alcohol Awareness Spurns Increases i·n Greeks' Insurance StorDl Wreaks Havoc in Upstate New York, and Western Mass. Continued from page '1 Tuesday. The Albany County ..c:: Airport was closed for much of .. E Sunday, stranding even more CJ) travelers, but by Monday ~ u a> ..0 a> a: although open and without power, limited service was available . On Sunday, those without power were directed to shelters o that were open throughout the 0 .c area. Because there was little a. or no realistic idea about how witho11t power and West College was opened for pevple to study and keep warm. Aside from (LP. J -University of Maine fraternities are paying thousands of dollars more for msur~nce coverage than they w~r~ JUst a few years ago, said W1ll1am. Lucy, associate dean of Student Activities and Organizations. \Premiums for fratemities have tripled and qua<lrllpled cmnpared to jiiSt three and four years ago\ he Associate Dean Clf Faculty, Terry Weiner, supports curricular long power would stay off, the enhancement. emergency shelters were • power generated by a back~up generator, eve!l the College Center was darl{ened by the storm. All in all, Union as a whole, fared much better than surro11nding areas. In Scotia, just over the bridge, power had not been regained, in some spots, until iuesday nigllt. Union did not suffer any problems with water, however, same areas nearby have had major plumbing difficulties due to the storm. said. ' Lucy said the sharp rise in premiwns was due to a national increase in alcohol awareness. \It's the ex:pectation of society,\ he said. \They are callillg for a change in attitudes aoout alcohol and to not be consistent with that trend mea!ls that ya.u will get called out.\ Discussion of The Closing of The American Mind to Kick Off Faculty Book Review prepared to remain apen in~ definitely. In a New York Times report, it was stated that over 800 people remained in shelters on Tuesday. These shelters induded firehouses, nursing homes and other centers set up by state and, local officials. The Red Cross helped in supplying cots, blankets, food and @ther emergency supplies Although pain lingers the snow has melted. The autumn sun has erased all remnants of our early winter. The earliest snowstorm on record has caused much grief and hard- ship, but efficient ad- ministration and cleanup have alleviated most <Jf t1le problem caused by the snow. Here at Union, although we were not drastically affected, problems did arise. The difficulties here wre overcome quickly and painlessly. La\Vsuits in the millions .of dollars have been bro11ght agaillst fraternities for alcohol- related problems, he said. Lucy said rnany of the national fraternity headquarters have been putting pressure on their chapters to be more resp<m- sible. \Insurance companLes are backiiJg away and many fraternities are having a hard time finding one that will insure thern,'~ he said. Ll!cy said this problem has led t{) many fraternities pooling their funds and insuring themselves. Guy Abernathey, the director of finance at Kappa Sigrn2's national headquarters in Virginia, disagrees. ''We haven't had any kind of a probl~rn finding coverage for our fraternity,\ he said. Kappa Sigma is in a group of eight fraternities that have pooled their funds and insured themselves. Abernathey said the fraternity is in that group for \Jlurely economic reaS()ns\ and !lot because of any problem with getting coverage from an insur&J<:e company. By JOHN COHN This month wHl b<t) the start of a new faculty-stuclent reading and discussion pr()j ect. Using the input of Associate Dean of Undergraduate Stu. dies William Daniels and Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, Dean of Faculty Terr:r Weiner described the prCJgrarn as one whose aim is, \To feature a best selling book at the 11ew campus bookstore. The plll]JOSe is to provoke the academic com- munity and enhance intellectual discussion at Unio!l.\ Weiner added that the rnok of the month, \would be t:he feature of the new bookstore at a discounted rate.\ ''A discussion foil() w up of the books will take place in the Cabaret area of thoe new Dutch Hollow.\ \The h()pe,\ said Dean Weiner, ''is tbe creation of alive and vibrant ta.lks headed by a faculty moderator. It is important to stre~s the point that this is to I.Je an open discussion rather than a lec- ture, creating a11 informal, relaxed atmospllet·e for the students.\ T . · · h· · 1·· s·· · '~t~~~~~'\'. ~:'~-~~·,.;,~ · · '\' . . . . ·. ... \\'~J& C) :p '9 .. ~-~!Air~· .. 't'linrsday, Octol)~t 8 · . . ·. . . , • t 1~00 a.m. · The Minerva Hour. New York State Court ~:45 p.m. Friday~ October 9 of Appeals Judge SolWacnUet. CC Aud. Dutch Hollow Rest. German C()BV'.etsation · table. · Conege Center Aud. Constituti~ru lectm;e: Prof. Manfred Jones, \The CtHlstitution: A ReflectOr of the American Vaiu~ System.\ Bailey. 31:2. MBA C:olloquiurn w-ith Gerald Pedinotti, V .P. of Lawtet~ce Health Care Administrative Services, Inc.., on \Starting a Health maintenance organization;\ 1, 97 11 p.m. College Center Aud. Star Trek[V. 8:0() p.m. Memorial Chapel. An evening ()f .comedy with Emo Phillips. Other bom~o~ning festivities are .planned. Sllturday, October 1() 11 :00 a.m. C()llege Center Aud. 1986 Du:tcJlrnen 11:30 a.m. 12:00 p.m. 1Z:l5 p.m. 7, 9, 11:00 p.m. 8:()0 p.m. Highlights. Lantont House Porch. Music 1Jy Union's D11tch Pipers and Gatntlt Minstrels. Memorial Chapel. Bells roncell by P'eter K. Smith '70. Aunual Homecoming Parade. l)own Al¢l(andet Lane to Union Aven11e, to Union Street, in the Btue Gate JJ~t Old Chapel to Alexander Field Coll'¢ge Center Aud. Star Tret 1V. Memorial Chapel. Union <;otleg~ Choir. Atm.ual Homecomfug Concert -Other h.ome:womt.r~-9 feiti.vl.tt.es e~re ptQ.nnett- S~IIday, October 11 I(): 15 a.m. Memorial Chaple. HomecomiJLg chapel service. 7, 9. U:OO p.m. College Center Aud. Star Trek rv. \\0~t hom\omi.-n-9 festt.vttiles Rrtt ,ta-nned:- This month's book is entitled The Closing of the American Mind, by Allan Bloom. The book itself is an a.ttack not only on the student, but the whole academic community. Bloom accuses students of being culturally illiterate and this being the fault of the university. The book even goes on to claim that Rock and Roll music is not music and could even be considered im- moral. \These are ideas that ·people in college should be aware of and take seriously,\ said tile Dean. The open discussion will take place October 14 at 1 p.m. in the Cabaret area of the campus center. All are welcome to attena, even those who haven't seen the book, added the Dean. \We are committed to this and believe it is a useful thmg to d(). We will see that it works,\ stated Weiner. The funds come from a grant to help support curricular enhan- cement. The president's ac- count from the Hewlett-Mellon grant, an extemal fund, will allow for the books to be sold at the discounted rate. Here at Union, West College, Hickock House, Raymond House, TDChi and Potter House all had power. However, down campus, most every<me was Union Review of BoQks \Most students will be content with what our present considers relevant; others will have a spirit of enthusiasm that subsides as family and and ambition provide them with other objects of interest; a small number will spend their lives in an effort to be autonomous. It is for these last, especially, that liberal education exists. They become the models for the use of the noblest human faculties and hence are benefactors to all of us, more for what th.ey are than for what they do. Without their presence (and, one should add, without their being respectable), no society-no matter how rich or comfortable, no matter how technically adept or full of tender sentiments-can be called civilized.\ Objective: Monthly discussion. open to the campus com- munity-faculty, staff & students-involving a book selected for its visibility and potential interest to the community. Meeting dates are the second Wednesday of each month throughout the academic school year from 1:00 to 2:00p.m. at the College Center. First Selection Alan Bloom, The Closing of the American Mind: Education and the Crisis of Reason. (1987). On sale at the Campus Store at a discount for $10.00. Wednesday, October 14, 1987 I11 the Cabaret, College Center, 1:00 p.m. MediatClrs: Professors Felmon Davis & Mark Tober IntroductiCln: President John Morris As of October 4, 1987 the following clubs' budgets have been irozen due to lack of interest: Amnesty International Dance Ensemble Math Club Ski Club Spanish Club Women's Network Yoga The officers of thase ·g clubs have until October 20 to contact a member of the finance committee to explain the reasons for inactivity thus far. If you are not presently an officer but would like to get involved in these clubs please contact Mrs. Marra. If no interest is shown by October 20, the funds previously allocated to the clubs will be absorbed ir1to the General fund. ·I ' :l ·~ I i ;j l t tl II I

.~. ' CONCORDIEIVSlS, Brokerage Firm of. U.S.S.R. Excha.nge College. H:opes to Send Students to Russia by 1.989. Questionable Merit to Recruit at Union By CHARLESSLOTNIK ''i'he First Investors Con~ solidated · Corp. will give a presentation to seniors and other students interested in a career In selling First Investors financial products, on Thur- .sday, October 23. · First Investors is a 56-year- old Wall Street based brokerage firm whose sales force caters to ine~perienced ·individual in· vestors, who often have little knowledge about financial products. The firm's primary product is a vast array of mutual funds to su'it the various. financial needs of its. clients. In addition to mutual funds, First Investors also sells life .in- surance, annuities 'issues credit cards, arid offers a· discount brokerage service. First Iiivestors demand less training from its salesmen than do other comparable firms. In order to become a First Investors salesperson, all one has to do is complete a five- week ·training for a licensing exam, and two additional weeks . learning the First Investors · sales appr(}ach. However, wtlike most major brokerage firms which pay their sales people whlle·training, and pay their licensing fees, First · Investors does not pay its trainees, since all pay is based on generating s<;iles com- misshm. Morever, First Investors requires all trainees to pay their own $300 licensing fee. In the Career Development Center's listi.ng of cqmpanies visiting Union, the Iisting.states that First Investor's trainees must have either a B.A. degree · or a B.S. degree in any major, but according to one former sale.sman interviewed by Forbes Magazine; \All they require is that you have a heartbeat and $300 to get .registered.'' Furtbermo.re, the mutual funds that First Investors sells to its clientsh~:venot performed as well as its competitors'. The First Investors U.S. Govern~ . ment Plus Fund, which invests in fixed income securities, was down 18.1 percent in the last three months alone and was the . third worst performing public fixed income fWid.in that period according to Lipper analYtical services. Moreover, First Investors equity fWids have not been star performers either, according to Lipper analytical services, as First Investors Natural Resources Fund is up only 7.5 percent . in the last 10 years. Over that 10-yeat period, First Investors Natural Resources Fund is the second worst performing public equity fWid available to the p.U.blic. In contrast; the Fidelity Magellan Fund, another equity fund available to the public, is up 2,043 percent in the same 10- year time period. First Investors also charges a sales commission on its m1:1tual fWids, whicb further add to its client's losses, or cut into profits depending on how the fund performs. In advertisements to recruit new salespeople, First Investor states; ''The. Average Earnings of Our Top 50 Managers in 1985 were $74,600,\ and emphasizes \immediate management training positions available.'' · But this • is only the top .50 salespeople and; according to Fprbes Magazine, many of the other 5,000 sales represen· tatives made Wider $10,000. Since all earnings are based on sales commissions, many representatives use high Continued on page 4 Continued .from page 1 context he was discussing the freedoms and. standard of living that Americans possess. To say the program is designed to swap only academics is a far cry from reality. Rather, it is a cultural exchange that could furthzr . warm diplomatic relations at a grass roots level. The presence of Soviet students on American campuses will foster personal as well as group awareness's of both cultures. Differences as well as similarities can be discussed at the personal level. Professor Sharlet indicated that this prcgram may be a result of warnrlng American/Soviet relations. It may also be a symbol of Gor- bachev's Soviet socio-economic reformation and possible Westernizati()ll. With this reformation. the Soviets have become extremely interested in 'capitalist' market economy theories that were shunned only months before. If so, these students wh() are exposed to informal America and Western sQcial sciences will tote home \valuable luggage.\ The Program is an exchange, meaning that eventually Union students win be given the op- portunity to take a year in the U.S.S.R. President Morris estimates that Union may be ready by the fall of 19~9 to send . students abroad. A sufficient Russian language prog,r.am must be established in order to make students fluent enough for this experience. Due to the high enrolln:lent in classes on Soviet history and political science, Sharlet believes many would choose to learn Russian, and some may have an interest in a year abroad. lu*ofloMrol RHYTHM & BLUES BAND TICKETS · . . -·LIVE ON STAGE f.' . . ·:> ... ·. SATURDAY, OCTOBER 10t~~7PM RPI FIELDHOUSE, TROY, NY llCKETS ARE ON SALE: NOW AT: _ RPI Fieldhouse Box Office Sl •• All TICKETRONS & OBO Outlets Or Call (800) 922-2030 and of course, at the door' See exhibits, demonstrations and displays by the following co-sponsors: Slrawb&rrie& Ro<:ordo SurfCI!psule Nemlil MotOla Melrdand TOld's Fish Fry Pln<t Hills PIZza Andy's Spoting G(>()da Alban~ TrQvel School Pine Hils Ted Mr. SYbb Video's hi Hall<tYOI&en Hall - TICKETS. $1. lt•AWriip Mom'l MuoicS~ems T\\'pforce Cllf'llaiDiotict\Valerbeds _Professor Frank Gado, head of. Curricular Alternative Committee. General Education· Curriculum· Passes by One Vote By SANDRA ROTH can accept or reject these recommeri(lations. Two prop~sals to replace the Gur!entl.Y~ · the facult~ is · current Liberal Learning . selectmg Lts repres~ntabve~. program are being considered. . Two pe()ple are !l~n:;amated m Dissatisfied with the contents of each of four div1smns. The the General Edacation divisions and their nominees curriculum the Curricular are as . follows: Division !- Alternative~ Committee was Hwnanities- Ruth Stevenson, created. Under the leadership English and Anton. ~.arde, of Professor Frank Gad() they Modern Languages; DLVISLon II- formulated a new proPosal. Social Sciences- Stephen Berk, \The essential character of the two proposals is different. This is no more apparent thaD .in the freshman year preceptorial.\ When put to a faculty vote, it fell one vote short of being tbe ·new curriculum. '~is slim margin r~;~ises questions as to what 'Will be done. Both. proposals have strong faculty support. The General Education Boa£'d will review both plans and make appropriate recommendations. The·members of the General Education Board are being selected now. It will be com• posed of two students ( ()ne of whieh will be a freslunan or sophomore), four fac11lty members and a director who will then make recom- mendations to the Academic Affairs Coinmittee. The AAC History; Division III- Science- Frank Lambert, Biology and Janet Anderson, Chemistry; Division IV- Engineering- Michael Rudko, Electrical Engineering and Mario Rivera, Mechanical Engineering. One professor from each category will be ch()sen by a vote. . The General Education CurriCulum has · the ~ollowing requirern~1;1ts: 1 Freshman Preceptorial coutse · 2 QuarJtitative courses 2 Science courses 1 SDcial Science course 2 murse History sequence 1 Civilization course 2 Literature courses The Curricular Alternative Committee's plan has created some disagreement .. Much . faculty support is given to the Science- TechnolO'gy require- ment. For non-majors it in- volves a year of extensive study. Continued on page 4 An ad hoc committee has been formed to review the qualifications for tenur.ability of Professor George Gmelch of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty and students are invited to voice their views. Comments should be submitted to any member of the ad hoc committee as soon as possible. The committtee is mad.e up of Profs. J. Barbanel · (Mathematics), R. Wells (History), H. Wilson (Arts), and C. Gati (Political Science) ARE YOU A I HAM! I DO YOU LIKE TO ENTERTAIN PEOPLE? DO YOU WANT TO BECOME A CAMPUS LEGEND?THEN YOU CAN DO II CABARET II WE NEED MUSICIANS, COMEDIANS, MC'S, JUGGLERS AND ANVY OTHER FORM OF ENTERTAINING ACT. CALL DAVE PROVOST X4167 OR BECKY THAYER X4367

·I I ;) CONCORDIENSIS, October 8, Jtf)8i' Pllge 3 Brokerage Firm of Questionable Merit to Recruit at Union By CHARLES SLOTNIK Tl:le First Investors Con- solidated Corp. will give a presentation to seniors and other students interested in a career in selling First Investors financial products, on Thur- sday, October 23. First Investors is a 56-year- old Wall Street based brokerage firm whose sales force caters to inexperienced individual in- vestors, who often have little knowledge about financial products. The firm's primary product is a vast array of mutual funds to .suit the various financial needs of its clients. In addition to mutual funds, First Investors also seHs life in- surance, annuities issues credit cards, and offers a discount brokerage service. require is that you have a heartbeat and $300 tc get registered.\ U.S.S.R. Exchange College Hopes 1o Send Students to Russia by 1989 Continued f.rom page 1 contex.t he was discussing the freedoms and standard of living f that Americans possess. To sa:J the program is designed to swap only academics is a far cry from rceality. Rather, it is a cultural exchange that could furt~3r . warm diploJnatic relations at a grass roots level. The prese11ce of Soviet students on American campuses wiH foster pers()nal as well as group awareness's of both cultures. Differences as well as similarities can be discussed at the personal level. !Professor Frank Gado, head of Curricular Alternative Committee. General Education Curriculum· Passes by One Vote -- -- (lj (j) By SANDRA ROTH can accept or reject these recommendations. Two proposals to replace the curr-ent Liberal Learning program are being considered. Dissatisfied with the contents of tbe General Education curriculum, the Curricular- First Investors demand less training from its salesmen than do other comparable firms. In order to become a First Investors salesperson, all one has to do is complete a five- week training for a licensing exam, and two additional weeks learning the First Investors sales approach. However, unlike most major brokerage firms which pay their sales people while training, and pay their licensing fees, First Investors does not pay its trainees, since all pay is based on generating sales com- mission. Morever, First Investors requires all trainees to pay their own $300 licensing fee. Furthermo,re, the mutual funds that First Investors sells to its clients have not performed as well as its competitors'. The First lnvestors U.S. Govern- ment Plus Fund, which invests in fixed income securities, was down 18.1 percent in the last three months alone and was the third worst performing public fixed income fund in that period according to Lipper analytical services. Moreover, First Investors equity fWlds have not been star performers either, according to Lipper analytical services, as First Investors Natural Resources Fund is ap only 7.5 percent in the last 10 years. Over that 10-year period, First Investors Nat ural Resources FW1d is the second worst performing public equity fund available to the pul>lic. In contrast, the Fidelity Magellan Fund, another equity fund available to the public, is 11p 2,043 percent in the same 1(). year time period. First Investors also charges a , sales commission on its mutual · funds, which further add fo its client's losses, or cut into profits depending on how the fund performs. Professor Sharlet indicated that this program may be a result of warming AmericanJSoviet relations. It may also l>e a symbol of Gor- bachev's Soviet socio-economic reformation and possible Westernization. With this reformation the Soviets have become e:s:tremely interested in 'capitalist' market economy theories that were shunned only months before. If so, these students who are exposed to informal America and Westem social sciences will tote home \valuable luggage.\ , Alternative Committee was created. Under the leadership of Professor Frank Gado, they f<Jnnulated a new proposal. Currently, the faculty is selecting its repreSElltatives. Two people are nominated in each of four divisi«m.s. The divisions and their nominees are as follows: Division I- Humanities· Ruth Sievenson, English and Anton Warde, Modern Languages; Divisionii- Social Sciences- Ste:phe11 Beik, History; Division III- Science- Frank Lambert, Biology and Janet Anderson, Choernistry; Division IV- Enginoeering- Michael Rudk<>, Electrical Engineering and Mari() Rivera, Mechanical Engineer\ing. One professor from eacb ce~tegory will be chosen l>y a vdoe. In the Career Development Center's listing of companies visiting Union, the listing states that First Investor's trainees must have either a B.A. degree or a B.S. degree in any major, but according to one former salesman interviewed by Forbes Magazine; \All they In advertisements to recruit new salespeople, First Investor states; ''The. Average Earnings of Our Top 50 Managers in lll65 were $74,600,\ and emphasizes ''immediate management training positions available.\ But this is only the top 50 salespeople and, according to Forbes Magazine, many of the other 5,000 sales represen· tatives made under $10,000. Since all earnings are based on sales commissions, many representatives use high Continued on page 4 AND - - ~;/JI!:! . vraft \.I~ Ge11JllPof As n Gets PRESENT The Program is an exchange, meaning that eventually Union students will be given the Qp- portunity to take a year in the U.S.S.R. President Morris estimates that Union may be ready by the fall of 1989 to semi students abroad. A sufficient Russian language program must be established in order to make stud€nts fluent enough for this experience. Due to the higll enrollment in classes on Soviet history and political science. Sharlet believes many would choose to learn Russian, and some may have an interest in a year abroad. lutofCIMrol RHYTHM & BLUES BAND CbrBBusone and tile Ratn TICKETS SATURDAY, OCTOBER 101~ 7 7PM RPI FIELDHOUSE, TROY, NY 11CKETS ARE ON SALE ~OW /l\T: RP I Fieldhouse Bo:x Of.f;i.ce SJ.M All TICKETRONS & CBO Outlets Or Call (800) 922-2030 and of course, at the door TICKETS SJ.M ------- -- -~ See exhib•ts. demonstrations and displays by the followung co-sponsors: S~awborri.,. Rocordo SooC.poule Hlllloweon Hall lfsAWrap Nenulh Motor• M<>koland To«fs F1sh Fry Pine H1Hs Pl;ua Andy's Spor~ng Goodo Abany Travel School PineH*eTaxt Mr SUbb Vid<>o'olst Mom's MuoicSyr;tem& Temploroo C\\!lal Olsk•ciWalerbeds L_ ______ _ \'Jhe essential character uf' the two proposals is different. This is no more apparent than in tile freshman year preceptorial.\ When pat to a faculty vote, it fell one vote short of being the new cu1.\'ricul wn. This slim margin raises questions as to what will be d<>ne. Both~ proposals have :strong faculty support. The !General Education Board will :review both plans and make ;appropriate recommendations. Tile members of the General ::Edue!ation Board are being :selected now. It will be com- JPOSed of two students (one of \Which will be a freshman or :SOJlhomore ), four faculty members and a director who -will then make recom- meltldations to the Academic .Affairs Committee. The AAC The General Education Curriculwn has the following requirements: 1 Freshman Preceptorial course 2 Quantitative c<Jwses 2 Science courses 1 Social Science e<Jurse 2 course History sequence 1 Civilization coUise 2 Literature courses The Curricular Aliernative Committee's plan has created some disagreement. .Much faculty support is given to the Science-Technology reqaire- ment. For non-majors it in- volves a year of ertensive study. Continued on page 4 An ad hoc committee has been formed to review the qualifications for tenurability of Professor George Gmelch of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty and students are tnvited to voice their views. Comments should be submitted to any member of the ad hoc committee as soon as possible. The committtee is made up of Profs. J. Barbanel (Mathematics), R. Wells (History), H. Wilson (Arts), and C. Gati (Political Science) AREYOUA I HAM! I DO YOU LIKE TO ENTERTAIN PEOPLE'? DO YOU WANT TO BECOME A CAMPUS LEGEND?THEN YOU CAN DC [I ~ABARET I] WE NEED MUSICIANS, COMEDIANS, MC'S. JUGGLERS AND ANYY OTHER FORM OF ENTERTAINING ACT. CALL DAVE PROVOST X4167 OR BECKY THAYER X4367

' \ First Investors Claims Improved. Gen. ·Ed Board Still to be· Revi·ewed T . . . ratntng Methods, Organization ·Will Review Conlin uecl from page 3 pressure sales techniques to convince clients to buy First Investors products. Should First Investors be ~llowed ~nd invited to recruit managen,11~nt trainees on the Union College campus? Joanne Tobiassen, head of Career Develo.pment feels, \Any company that behaves in a ,professi(mal manner that identifies the available positions, and is open and honest al><mt the salary structure a.Jid what the job entails, is. welcome, but if the company misrepresents themselves to students, a re- assessment will be made as to whether the campany will be allowed back in the future.\ At Hmtilton College, Gene Roche, Director of Career Development, says, \First Investors is scheduled to come next Febraary and it is up to the individual student as to whether his-her own moral judgments and values would allow him to feel comfortable in a particular career.\ Tobiassen added, \Each student is strongly encouraged 1 to do research on each company that visits, that will enable him or her to ask in1elligent questions, and make a well- informed jadgment. ,, Alvin Blumenfeld, a senior WE'R~E HIRIN·G. 56 year old Wall St. firm seeks men and women Immediate manag~ment training positions available . The Average Earnings o·f Our Top 50 Managers in 1985 were over $74,600 For full details, call:()r write •.. Daniel J. Finnegan First Investors Corporation 23 Green St. Sui:te 310 - · Huntington, N.Y. 11743 vice-president at Fir;;;t Investors, when asked if First Investors was a good place for a recent college graduate to start one's career, said, \Sure there is a better opp!)ttunity here than ever before. We have better This advertisment for First Investors Corporation 'Ran in Forbes Magazine ' Both Prop_osals Continued from page 3 through · and face the con- .Professor Gado state&, \the .sequences.\ One effect would essential character of the two · be an increased number of proposals is different. This is no ' fac\llty members to handle the more apparent than in the. courses and therefore, less freshman year preceptorial.\ money for the school to use for But his alternative to this Class improvements and. scholar ... is .W1popular. ''Emergence of ships. the. Modern World\ offers an ' The faculty will have their overall view of fi:ve centuries of · history dating back from 1492. This is accomplished over the · entire freshman year sequence . along with \Critical Writing and Thinking.\ The General Education Board will .review both proposals. J-h;n \It is clear there will be a change in wbat was approved.u Underwood, director -of the : . board, feels · \It is clear there . · inpu,t as to what courses will be · will be a cqange in what was · introduced but what about the approved.'' He hopes cemmon · students? Two students Will goals and values will be found. repre$ent their peer~ as training methods, organization, and products.\ It is expected tl;lat the science memliers of the board. But, as . requirement of the CAC will be Michael Hiller, Student Forwn . incorpr.ated into the General President states, \They have Education plan. Gado states, surveyed the faculty on bQth ''They'll tell everyone they're proposals. I am looking forward amalgamating but they won't. to w}Jen they ·survey the more It's not possible!' Since the students on what particular better General Education Plan won· by aspects of the programs we vote, Gado believes they should · want to integrate into the 11 let them put their proposal . curriculum.'' BefOre }OU choose a long distance I .---v-ou 0 -:M-E~N---DS----·· service, take a dose looK You may be thinking about choosing one of the newer carriers over AT&T in order to save money. Think again. Since January 1987, AT&Ts rates have dropped more thin 15% for direct -dialed out-of- state calls. So they're lower than you probably realize. For infor- mation on specific rates, you can call us at 1 800 222-0300. And AT&T offers cleat long distance connections, operator assistance, 24-hour customer- service~ and immediate credit for wrong numbers. Plus, you can use AT&T to call from · anywhere to anywhere, all over the United States and to over 250 countries. You might be surprised at how good a value AT&T really is. So before you choose a lorig distance company, pick up the phone. ATaT The right choice. I~ • Alan Bloom, \The Glosing of the American Mind: Education and the Cr~sis of Reason\ (1987), the first selection for the UNION Review of Books has been sold out at $10,00 each. Another shipment is on the way. REMEMBER: Wednesday October 14, 1987 Colleg.e Center 1 :00 p.m.-2:00 p.m. All Ca,mpus Discussion Moderator: Professor Felman Davis WRITE FOR NEWS Call i I Becky x4-4 16 1 ~· or Fiona X4 166 l ~·- ... ----.. .. DAMBROSE CLEAN·ERS -~ 1517 Van Vranken Ave . 374-'5193 DRY CLEANING AN:O TAILORING · .. ._. __ _....._...;.._.__;,---~-------------------------------------:- . ...._..;..;__ __________ , ,I

The GhoSt of Carnegie ' By MAR~ HAUGHTON . A family trip to Scben~ctady via Routes 5, 7, or 1•90 Will pl\o.vide you with· ample eresores. If Crossgates doesn't grab your attention, and if y()u're compelled t() fly by Mohawk or you chose to cir- ciunvent Latham Circle Mall, 3f()U can always drop in on \The C()1lege Center.'·' . . .Any implication that the (J()llege Center represents a t~seless expanse of square space sn~uld be cast aside fm its value tow·ard appropriate services cannot be questioned; however, the atm<lsphete in which these se:rvif;es exist is questionable. · 1 heiie~e we will !lll agree (alld I am sure some. of your local towns have zoning i'e~ulations restricting the use pf digital and neon signs}, that. the ''DutCh Hollow\ might l<!<lk :more Dutch if it were in a basement with a WQoden door .md a dimly lit sign .. Perhaps \\INF ORMA TI QN\ flashing tetter by letter, fading .into th~ sk:y or disintegrating before our very eyes could be better )>resented in a coll~ge situation through pamphlets: reading naterial My personal favorit.e, lying peacefully in the center of the block, those natural~looking fruit trees that reach towardtlle · sky. Little. do they know that a custom cut double~paned sheet of safety glass imposes an in~ surmountable barrier ob- structing their reach for the · heavt!hs. Nor am I ,sure of the purp.ose of the pleasantly dressed man Who confronts you for your order, then pushes you aside while handing that order to the chef. When I began this critique I considered the name, '''The College Genter\. I always thought that \Carnegie\ better represented an academic at- mosphere; better isolated and addressed the goal of higher education. Most still realte Carnegie to a condemned bUilding; a mud pit, or an ob- stacle to be conquered in the quest for an eight o'clock class fu S&E. So, along with the eight o'clock classes goes Carnegie. I see a new theme developing here: presenting something we are not. _, As I walked away from Coneordy with wet feet, having delivered my first article, I was attacked by those snakish blue tiles. I was ahnost free when I stepped through the door; the .ghost of Carnegie jettisoned my feet forward, off~setting my center of mass, sending me · crashing to the .floor. He must have read the article. Michael Hiller FEATURES r:: !: E n Ill u u <LJ 0 <LJ . :!!:: >- 0 0 ':! i ~ampus Spotlight . . • 'M·k· a·t·t .· .-1 e .· 1: er By FRANKLITZ Meet Mike Hiller, Student Forum president. A senior, a history major, and perhaps one of the most inM fluential students on campus, Mike took some time out from his hectic schedule to tell The Concordie:il.Sis about his views and concerns as president of the Student Forum. The Student Forum, from Mike's perspective, serves three major functions for students: the student voice in Union College government, the :money allocators to all clubs and organizations, and the informers of proposed ad- ministrative policy. Hiller feels his responsibility at the hebn of The Student_ Forum is to respond with every ·cJiange in student interests. To serve the student conummity effectively, he feels, \the short term cannot be ignored.\ \If _it came to them .putting a !)arking lot in the middle of campus, that's where you'd see me do most of my footwork ... Any student concern is my eoncern.\ The college's major con- stl\uction over the past two reat\s on Carnegie and the Alumni Gym were both projects ainied at long-tenn benefits. D~ring c.onstruction, Hille.r found there wasn't any place for students to meet. Finding S()lutions to such short-term problems should be the function of student leadership. With respect to money all()cation, Mike confides, ''I try to stay away fro:rn finance.\ Student Forwn vice-president . in~hargeof finance for the year is Jean. Matus. · Thirdly, with all members of the Forum, Hiller maintains a key role in informing the St11dent community of proposed .J)()licies which involve student interests. The failure to ·inform has led to discontent in the past. pl\oval. In this way,. we can ~ssess the performance of Gel- Time responsibly.'' Hiller, in his denouncement of Gel-Time, does not want to make it a number one issue .for the Forwn, but instead uses it as an example of why students shoilld be informed. Being a senior, serving his first and last year on the Forum, Mike has some im- portant goals. ''I want to erase the feeling of futility that many students have in considering an active role in policy-making.\ Mike admits he was one of th.<lse students. \I didn't believe in Student Forum. I was one of th.ose who felt I could have no role in policy-making. I don't think that's the way it's gonna :be this year.\ Hiller sees the changes that Union has gone through, both physkal and political as a transition. Now at the end of the transition, ''students will take an active role in policy-making, instead of sitting around and critidzing afterwards.\ Dinosaurs Alive! The \quiet't passage of Gel- 'Nme is one thing Hiller feels could have been more actively opposed if only more students · were aware of the plan and its problems. Though so:me would like to believe students approve, \most students are opposed,\ according to Hiller. In terms of the ad- ministrations's relationship with students, Mike senses, \a definite change in attitude. Tiley (the administration) have been very supportive of the Forlllll as a whole.\ By CATHY MARKES · be varied so that they move in different patterns. Before I Yes, you read that correctly- went to see the exhibit, I it's the current feature thought. the dinosaurs would exhibiti<ln at the New Y()rk have more freedom of State Musewn in Albany. Of movement. However, th.eir colll'se the dinosaurs aren't range of motion encompasses re~y alive, but they do stand small movements such as a and stomp, hiss, wave their creat'fire swinging its head, claws, and move their heads moving its tail or eyes, and and eyes as if they were alive. . opening its. jaws. When I saw The prehistoric creatures are the dinol!atirs, I was impressed on di~lay at the museum until. by the natural quality of their December 28, under contract motions. The creatures' mouth from Dinamation International movements were also coor- Corporat~on of California. Tiley dimited with a aigitized were created by using fossil recording. evidence to approximate the .Of ' course, outside of this size, shape and skin texture ·of special exhibit at the museum, the giant reptiles which roamed there are also the New York the Eatth millions of years ago'. State permanent exhibitions All ·seven _dinosaurs in the which include a New York traveling exhipit are so.ft, Metropolis,- the Adirondack -· covered with synthetic hair or a Wilderness and the. Upstate Ice special silicone that recreates Age replicas. All of this makes the animals' appearance as for an int_eresting afternoon to aceurately as possible. spend at the museum. All the The <tinosaurs'. movements exhibits are free, with the ex- are pneumatically controlled by ception of \Dinosaur's Alive!\ a comp11ter program. Th-us, The admission to see the each creature's movements can dinosaurs is $3 per adult, to Tuesday Night At cover the cost ofthe traveling exhibit. Especially if you've never been, check it out. The New York State M:useum is located in the Cultural Education Center ofthe Empire St1;1te Plaza, Albany. Take Exit 23'off the NYS Thruway to I-787 · South. Exit at us- 20 West- Madison Ave. and continue on Madb~on Ave. to the Museum. While Gel-Time is under two- year trial, Hiller feels short- term student interests can still be supported. He suggests \(keeping) a status report on how well Gel-Time is working in terms of student-faculty ap- On the immediate agenda for the Forum is making use of the new C<lllege Center, said Hiller. ''The new center should be a place .for students, faculty, and admirlistrators to get together, creating a sense of unity among the «:ampus community.\ There Will Be A Short Informational Meeting For All Women Interested In The Varsity Softball Program On MONDAY, OCTOBER 12, 1987 1 Frq·m 7:30- 8:00 pm In ALUMNI G}'\M. Contact Coach Robert X6040, Colleen X 4350, Or Jean X 4351 If You Cannot Attend NIGHT SHIFT Pre·H(}alth Presents Socialized Medicine '~Closer Look\ $~.00 All You Can Drink (Draft Beer and Well Drinks) 10:90 PJD- 2:00am · Live 00 Only 2 Blocks from Union 381--8816 Where: Auditorium at the College Center When: TODAY, Thursday Oct. 8th 5:3()..6:30pm

CONCORDIENSIS, -.Octobu .~.,. 1!)87 FEATURES Afllly, ROTC Scholarships Four outstanding Union College students have been awarded full Army ROTC scholarships. M. Stanley Dobert, a Political Science Barth E. Bracy, a Physics. Scott k Daniels, a Mechanical Engineering major from Scott A Daniels, a mechanical engineering major from Pitt· sford. NY; and Jeffrey H. Klintz, an Electical Engineering major from Students who visited Wall Street last week. Loveland, OH, will aH receive full tuition, a text book alloJVance and a monthly In addition to scholarship opportunities, ROTC provides students with unique leadership and management training, alon.g. with practical ex~ perience. It also helps develop many of the qualities basic to success in the Army, or in a eiviHan career. ROTC also provides a valuable opportw1ity to build for the fwture by enabling outstanding young men and wemen to cam a college degree and an officer's commission at the same. time. Wall Street Review · stipend for their remaining years.of study at Union College. Cadet Do bert and. Cadet Bracy, both juniors, enrolled in Army ROTC . in September of 1985. Cadet Daniels and ·Cadet Klitz, both sophomores, became members in September of 1987. Union College has 13 students enrolled in Army ROTC which is currently being conducted at the Washington Avenue New York State National Guard Armory in Schenectady, NY. By DANA ROSEN, EMILY SOOHOO, and t YNN DUFFY 5:30a.m. alarm rings 6:27 a.m. wake up and leap out of bed 6:58 a.m. run to bus to meet group by 6 :50a.tn. 7:02. a.m. fall asleep while bus departs for Wall Street This describes the start of our field trip to Wall Street last Thursday. While the rest of Union College was slumbering away, 40 students were leaviftg to discover the actual metropolis that Schenectady is not. Joanne Tobiessen and Nancy Ellerman of the CDC, and Professor Bradley Lewis accompanied the group on the third annual trip toWallStreet. Before last Thursday, we all thought that Wall Street was a newspaper, a place that ts open 9 to 5, Monday through Friday, or a singles' bar on Friday nights. We also learned that the stock market is not a place in Vermont to trade cattle. Initially, we believed that a career on Wall Street meant .,money, prestige, and · ex- citement. This misconception was rectified when we realized that Wall Street meant more ... more prestige, more ex- citement, and especially more money. The bus entered Manhattan at approximately 10:30 a.m. Beginning at the nQrthern end of the island, We toured Harlem, the museum mile, tried to make the bus driver stop at the Hard Rock Cafe, but · eventually· ended up at our destination. We • stretched otw legs after the four hour journey and opened our eyes to view Bankers Trust Plaza, located across from the World Trade Center. We were greeted by Union alumni and a table full of donuts, danishes, and various beverages, which made us more anxious to fill our stomachs than to develop. our careers. Several alumni discussed their jobs and career paths in commercial banking. One fellow student commented that the discussion aided her in narrowing her decision 'On what she wanted and didn't want to do. By the end of the morning panel, our donuts were fully digested and our stomachs were signalling us to the next item on Ollr itineq:try ,lunch! We attended lunch at Pradential-Bache where we wet·e treated to an elegant ar-ray of gourmet dishes. If this LUilch was any indication· of the typical Wall Str.eet lunch, we were all ready to toss aside the jeans and pull o~ the pinstripes. Although it was . difficult to· converse with a mouth full of stuffed shrimp, we ~had some interesting conversations with rnl!ny Union alums. 1'hey represented several institutions and many facets of the financial industry. Also, they were not all Economics majors. Actually, one former en~ineer left his job to go to bu~iness school and become an an~lyst for Prudential-Bache Securities. He- also broke the . sad news that· a ·typical lunch· was not the· roast chicken with sauteed vegetables on our fine Chiaa, but a sandWich delivered fr()m the deli. Before tea and cookies, but aftEr the small red potatoes, Torn. O'Conner, vice-president at Pru~Bache, expressed his views of actual life on Wall Street. In addition to the ex- citement and glamour of em- ployment on Wall Street, it can be very competitive, fast-paced and-demanding. . After a lunch that was fulfilling with more than just infonnation, we headed over to Gold Street, the site of the original Pru-Bache building, We started the afternoon off witlt a panel discussion on in- vestment banking. The board consisted of representatives frorn Kidder Peabody, Salomon BrOtthers, Drexel-Burnham, and Pru-Bache. In order to make investment banking more comprehendable, Steve Albert, an engineer who graduated with a Hclrvard MBA, compared his wor-lt with football. \The payoff . is big if you like pressure, but you must want the· com- petitim.\ The only parallel we saw between football and life on Wall Stret was maneuvering doW11 the sidewalks at lun~ chtime. Ill some ways a day at Wall Street is similar to a day at Union College. F()r example, Tom O'Conner describes his day as full of responsibility and constant pressure, not unlike Get Involved! ... Social Committee Meeting Monday, October 12 7:30pm College Center 4th Floor Lounge the day of an organic .chemistr:y student. His day involve~ .problem solving-similar to il MTH-199 class. He also believe~ · his job to be challenging an£1 risk involving; apparently hE has never tried. to leave Chi ,Psi' during one of their infamo~ zoos. Mr. O'Connor added tha.t aggressiveness in .one's per-· sonality is beneficial,. somewhatlike the aggressiveness exerted by all inebriated fraternity brother or a pre-med senior in the mailroom b:i April. Of course, in someways, WaU Street differs greatly from Union. Despite the risks in_- volved, the banker claims· that reward is possible. At Union ii is Dean's list; on Wall Street it is $100,000/yr., four weeks paid' vacation, pnd meals in the executive dining room. The latter half of the af- ternoon was comprised of three panelists who talked about job search strategies. Suzanne Rice, presently employed at Salomon Bros., recommended Continued on page 1 Union ·_career By CARRIE CERRON'E For further details about this program, contact Captain Russell Rosati at (518)733-2571. College Festival AT&T Bell Labs, Smith Barney Harris Upham: & Co. Inc., New The ninth annual· Union York Telephone, Proctor & College Career Festival, which Gamble, and the U.S. Armed will be held in the Field House Forces among several of the on Wednesday, October 14,1987, over 40 firms attending. from 12:00-5::ro p.m., will Going to- grad school? Come provide a unique and valuable meet representatives from top opportunity for ALL students to law, medical, business, discuss career options with engineering, and public affairs corporate recruiters and programs. professionals :from a variety of Not sure what you want? .fields. Discuss opportunities with The informal atmosphere of career representatives from· a the festival ficlitates discussion vari~ty of professional areas between students and incl'uding broadcasting, professionals to provide specific counseling, investments, and company infortn·ation or social work. general career direction. Make Interested in an internship? contacts and conduct in- Come meet with company formational interviews with contacts to discuss the representatives from IBM, possibility of gaining work ir'\\'-----------------------, experience while you are still in college. ~.CHinn PHVIUOn 2'ifl Wn/f. Roc~c(. Lllhttm_ /'1~11\' Ynrkroff Nmthwav F.xit 41 /?('\NWltllim LiT R-Rf>Q-4fJ24 All mmorcrrdrt rani~ IICCI\fl tl\d Trlkl''·Pilf rmJrrs availahlt' Nelso.n•s Bo.ok Store 1: 73· Fay Street, _Sthenectadg To make the most of your time at the <:;areer Festival, why not prepare questions to ask the participants beforehand. The CDC has handouts on informational interviewing available to help you ask insightful an:d helpful . questions throughout the day. Check with your department TODAY to see the list of em- ploye~s who are specifically interested in students with your academic background. , Use your precious time wisely, come to the biggest and. most informative Career Festival so far! For more details, contact Nancy Eller- mann, Career Festival Coor• dinator, at 370-6176. I SAVE THESE DATES. 'FOODFRIGHT' SUNY • ALBANY, October 14th, 8:00 p.m. Main Campus ·Recital Hall, ·Performing Arts Center . and Russell Sage, Oct. 15th . 7:30 p.m., Troy Campus Memorial Bush Center DONATIONS GO TO CRAED •. Open Monday thru Salurday 11 am· 5:30 pm Thursday evenings 'til 9 pm .. .

\I thought it was supposed to get rid of the Wednesday parties ·but it didn't.\ Clterly Sobieraj '90 I C OlJCORDlJi'NsJs ,· 'r b'c;~b~~ t:~;: ij 9at _ Talk of the Town Concordy recently asked: \What do yoll think of Gel Time?\ ' ~ ' \As a social science major I think it's fine. It makes a lot of sense to me now, but I do11't think .if I was a sc~ence major I'd be .really happy. I thillk: tlle idea that we.,ll.spend m~re time studying is ridiculous.'' Kris BUl'ham :.g9 \My schedule gives me a lot more free time on the days 1 don't have classes.. but on the day_s I do. The class load is kincl of a strain.\ Pat Larkin ~ss ''Academically I ·don't mind Gel-Time, but it's made my on- campus job a lot more dif- ficult.'' Ed Walters '88 FEATURES ·'It's good because we have a lot more free time t<l d() other things but classes tend to drag;'' Karen Simons '90 photos and interviews by Stan Kitzinger ~=·====------------------------------------------~~~----------~------~--------------_J Stranded at·Lar's Without Marjorie By MAJOR.m ·HOFFER ask some questions: \Exel:lSe me, but are the roads this bad all the way up?\ I asked. \Worse that's why you are all gettiilg off this exit,\ he replied. ''What are you kidding?'' I exclaimed. \We have to get to Albany. How do we get to Albany?\ \I suggest you get a hotel room. You shouldn't go today. The roads are closed.\ \Oh by the way, \ I added, \There's a car ·off the road down there.\ \That's nice-\ he welcoming, and we got back on the turnpike heading for their home. Because I sacrificed two • weekends in a row for religioliS reasons, you would think thati would not think that I wolll<l encounter any difficulties Q.uring my travels from Uni<lll to my home. The first weekend I didn't. The second I did. 7X6 'lUf.>ITIJJ& CEJ5(fL. \Dh~ttelbtr ~\'d~ .(fror nl<Jl-fr; r~~=30 6U'l-~.: 7-JD:cm Like eve~yone else who saw snow on the ground when they woke up Sunday morning, I was surprised. However, I did not let this minimal flurry itnpede my trip to school. I HAD to be at the gym by one. All passengers in my car had arrived at my house on time and were on the road bright and early. Only, it wasn't really bright. In fact, it was pouring rain. My wind- shield wipers were getting a real workout. I felt sorry for them. But I was determined to hit Schenectady in record time. The roads were wet, but my frip t()wards the Massachussettes Turnpike was smooth sailing. Wall St. .. ; .. Continued from page 6 her three P's when going for an interview. ·No, that doesn't mean pretty, perky and peachy. Her rule suggested that an interviewee should be prepared, presentable and punctual. Susan Stern, from Nomura Securities, advised that the more people you know and contact; the greater your chances are of fincli,ng a job. The job search is really a people business. Eric Kaye provided a humorous recount of his job search. After ten months of interviewing and three jobs, he finally landed ou his feet as a. V.P. at Mosley Securities. He provided an extensive list of good ideas, including yellow ties are out, e:J~:pecially for women. Get a head start and mail your resume out early, especially if they hire by the LIFO method. Be tenacious, not offensive. Call alumni, farilily, friends, ex-lovers, old lan- dlords, past baby-sitters, etc. Learn about the company and· .ask a lot of questions . . . until you find one that stumps the interviewer. Separate yourself . . . from losers and people who may cramp y()ur style. Lastly, be upbeat and keep your chin up . . . even if y()u don't get the job aftei: 12 intemew.s with the same <;ompany. AUhe end of the day, students had an :dpportunity · to. ·speak informally with the Union alumni. Other students elected the alternative to walk down to the South Street SeapOrt to engage in a favorite after Wall Street pastime, eating and • • • drinking, yet another similarity with Union College: The day wouldn't have been a routirle Wall Street day in the abse11ee of a 5:30 daiquiri or pina colada. The .third annual trip to Wall Street proved to be an enjoyable and useful way to spend tlu day. Senior, Tom Beck agre~d that the whole industry seemed very competitive. By the end of the day, he realized tllat although Wall Street is ct relatively microscopic vicinity, it is actually a site of great cmnplex:ities. We all acquire(!~ wealth of information regar· ding life and work on Wall Street Hopefully, in the near future, we will be abl~ hl, · acquire a .great wealth on thE same street. I got onto the turnpike, foQk my tiny turnpike ticket~ and yawned at the familiar pilgrim hats which indicated that I was on the correct highway. I'm no dummy; I know that means elevation! When we saw more and more snow on the road, as we continued northwest, I wasn't surprised. We were halfway up to Union at this point. I wasn't happy sliding-but so far I kept in :mind that I was driving toy U-G-E- huge car and we were safe. One jeep had slid .off the road. We' thought it coincidental that there was a policeman, to whom · we could rec()unt this incident a few yards ahead guiding traffic into a single lane. I also took advantage of this opportunity to GD'C NEWS The following companies $till have openings for on-campus recruiting. Open slgnups will be on Tuesday, October 13 from 8:00 am • 4:00 pm. Signups are on a first come first served basis. AT&T- BS/MS in CS, EE, ME minimum GPA 3.27 First Investors-. Any Majo1 · Griffiss RADC}-,BS/MS in EE Naval Underwater---BStMS in EE New York Telephone~.3 GPA Northwestern Mutual-AnY\ Major Residential Opportunities-Ally M~or U.S. Patent & Trademark-l:lS/MS in 81, CH, CE, EE, ME, PH with minimum 2.9 GPA The following Professiorud Schools will be on campus . · . Morurav, october 12 Benjamin N. Cardozo Schooj..cJf Law from 2:00-4:00 Columbia Business Schoolirom 10:00-4:00 · · Woodrow Wilson School of. Pt.ibllo & lntarnati~nal Policy-1 0:30 am said. I quote verbatim. So, my companions and I followed the line of cars to the Lee exit. We decided our plan of action was to get gas, and. find an alternate route. After my car got stuck in snow at the gas station, we nixed the alternate route idea. I decided that we would go to a hotel, make reservations if we HAD to, and have a dry place to call our parents for advice. Going right along Lee's main street, all the \quaint\ motels flashed \NO vacancy\ neon signs. We pulled in at a most crowded Friendly's and watched the tiny town of Lee, Massachussetts economy prosper. I calmed down a bit, after we all had extensive phone calls with mom and dad. None of us had agreed upon a plan of ac- tion. We were assuaged by the fact that everyone in .. the resturant was in the same boat. All of us were asking each other for advice. People had road maps out and were plotting their courses in between bites of grilled cheese sandwiches. As the line to the ba~hroom got longer and longer, the three of u'S were at odds with what to do. Then, a novel idea entered my head. I thought of my dear friend Mona, and her house in Longmeadow, Massachussetts, a half an hour south. I knew of her kind family, and luckily, I knew her life-saving phone number by heart. Even though Mona was at Uhionstuding for a math test, I hoped her parents would take pity on three stranded students. The further south we travelled the less snow we encountered. In fact, when we arrived in Longmeadow, it was almost \nice\ weather. No one was to believe our tale of woe. We entered the Rosertthal's home, which was turned into a hotel before our very eyes. For no sooner had I explained our situation to Mrs. E, when her son, Mona's brotller (Unions hottest sophsmore), ''Lar\ called his friend, to warn 1iim about the treacherous con- ditions. Luckily indeed, for Lar's friend was \just about to step out the door\ whe11 Lar called and recornnnended that he make a pit-stop in Longmeadow. ~en the second set of travellers rang the Rosenthal's home, I thought that I saw Jason Bateman enter the r<lom! But, then I relized it was only the Concordy sports editor who I was stranded with. The evening's festivities began. Not everyone was in the best of moods. We were a set of seven stranded students, and didn't know each other too well. But the comm<ln denominators became cleal\-we wel:\e all supposed to be at Uniona11d we weren't, and we all spent seven dollars for a gross meal at Denny's that took much to long. Professors who are reading this, I report the truth. After dinner we returned to the Rosenthal's and evEryone wanted to do homework, (I took a shower and read \Mommy Dearest.\} And everyone woke up at 4:00 in the morning in order to be present at their 9:00 class, (I slept late and ate breakfast with the clEaning lady.) It was certainly an ad- venturous way to conclude a weekend-especially in October. Fortunately, when I phoned, 'helpless, distraught, and hysterical Mrs. Rosenthal C~•1ona's mom), was more than ' .. r-------------------------------------------1 DEPARTMENT POLITICAL SCQ:NGE FORUM PRE$ENTS . But I guess I must have done something right in synagogue because in the end it turned out fine. We all arrived at Union safe· and sound. And, I was in the pool Monday night with my new .found friend, a co-stranded traveller. U.S.- PERSIAN GULF PROTECTION OR INTERVENTION WEDNESDAY, OCT. 14. 4 PM .. 4TH FLOOR MEDIA WUNGE~ COLLEGE CENIER

- - CONCORJ:>IENSIS, October 8, 1987 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Tales from Thailand - . . - . ' . ByLIN NGAMTRAKULP ANIT ·nave you ever wondered what college life is like in other countries, how the students enjoy themselves and what· their social lives are like? In the United States· most of the students are requited to take the SAT and Achievement tests in order to be eligible to apply to college. In Bangltok, Thailand each student is reqWI-ed to take what we call an \entrance examination\ which .is given every year by the Ministry of Education. By sopho~or.e year of high school, students have to choose if they are mterested in a science major or a, liberal arts major. Then during their j;unior and senipt year in high school, they . . study 'to prepare fvr this en- trance examination. Because of · the limited number of universities we have compared to the number of applicants that apply each y·earo:t these examinations are designed to ~e very difficult. Those who decide to be a science major are tested in a variety of subjects such as; physics, math, chemistry, biology, English, etc. Those who want to be in liberal arts, are tested in sociology, history, Thai Ianguag.e (usage and grammar), etc. Those students whose marks are high enough in their chosen major are selected to go to· the Wliversities. One does have his choice of universities, but in order to be selected, he must score high enough in the .particular department he wants to be .in. For example, if you want to be in a Biology Department in this particular university, but your entranc.e- examination scores are not high enou.gh for this Wliversity, you Will be placed in a .Biolpgy Department in a different university. The of- ficials who work in the Ministry of Education are the- ones who decide which university\ is better for you based on your · . scores on the examination. Therefore, those who are ·ac- Rashomen to Be Shown By AIME SIMON R8sharnon, created by Japanese fihnmaker Akira Kurosawa won the grand prize at the 1951 Venice film festival and was widely acclaimed and financially successfUl in comtry .after country. Rashamon is a movie which challenges our perspective by examining the nature of truth. The objective story of a rape and murder becomes ob- sc~edi . as various characters relate their versions of the tale. Whose testimony represen~ reality? It is up to the viewer to decide. · As a fibnmaker, Kurosawa has created a curious blend of East and West in both subject matter and technique. His . following images, mobile camera, and highly stylized storytelling, all combine to create fihns that have had a significant influence on the development of the art. Noted Critic Speaks at Union ByAIMESIMON On Monday, October 5, John Simon, noted fihn and theater critic from the New York Times, came to speak at the College Center. Mr. Simon primarily discussed the role ·of the critic in society, which is to be able to distingltish between temporal fashion and true art. The critic must use his education to enrich the message of the art work and i.11crease its impact. Mter speaking for an hour, Mt. Simon fielded questions for half an hour. The · questions ranged from preparing students to become critics to his opinion about the film \My Life as a Dog.\ .9l.da some spice to your Bfe - write I nternationa{ ;c6825 cepted to a university are often more than proud. There are a lot of activities, clubs and trips for the college students. Each year, it is tradition to have a Freshman Orientation. The orientation is quite different from the kind of orientation held here in the States. Each freshman is told by the upperclassmen to do things which are often very embarassing. For example, the guys would be told,. in front of the crowd, to propose to a girl he bad never known before. · There are several oden· tations given to the incoming freshmen. The first orientation is usually given by the senior class, and tbe next .is given by the jWlior, and finally, by the sophomore Class. The orien· tation may take the whole weekend. The upperclassmen generally gre~ the freshmen by taking them somewhere for a weekend. There, they are in~ · troduced to one anotber by playing_ g~es avd camping, . · etc. The purpose of this is to create a friendly relationship between the upperclassmen and the freshmen. It is a way to . show the freshmen that they are welcome, and they will be counted as the youngest members of the college cQm· mUility, in which it is every upperclassman's responsibility to look after them. The college community operates on a seniority system where the lowerclassmen must give t~e upperclassmen respect. · Beside these orientations given by different classes, there is a variety of activities sucp as the photography club, the Thai language club, the Buddhist club, the English club, etc. However, ·there ar.e no fraternities or · SOrorities. The universities do not generally provide housing for the students. There are some student-s who live near the campus but the majority commute to their homes. During the weekend, the students either gather in one's house, sit arvund tmd talk, go out to eat, go to the mall, or go to the movies. Dancing is, however, one of the most popular forms of entertainment among the teenagers. We have one (Jf the finest discotheques in Asia, the Diana discotheque, and the fourth largest disC(Jtheque in the world, the Naxa, which just opened this past January. Drinking and Sllloking are popular amopg teenagers, however, if a girl were from a . good family, sqe }Vould not drink or smoke. You can often tell from what kind of hackgrotm~ a girl is by her manners. If she were from a well-resp.ected family, she would be raised as a ''lady\. A lady, according to our tradition, i,s sweet, tender, loving, and caring. She should have a good conscience, have faith and most of all, ,she must be grateful to her parents. Traveling is another popular way people have a good time . Unlike the United States, ']hailand is not . a very big country, therefore it does nof take much time to travel from ()ne town to the next. Some people might believe that the Cha-Um beach is a nice place to spend the weflkend, while some 1 mayenjoy a nice quiet Saturday and Sunday in the countryside. Once in a while it is nice to get away from the city, the crowd, and everyday life. R:elJgious ·'practice has · beC<>rne very · poplilar among teenagers within this past year. The teenagers enjoy_ meditating, viSiting temples in the countryside and observing the precept • a rule of moral con<luct. They sometimes spend a whole day at the temple;. - sometimes they spend the qight there. After meditating and observing the rule of moral co!i:duct, they feel -relaxed and clean, and aie ready to go back to their everyday. life. International Film. Festival This Week: Wedn-esday, October· 14 Akira Kurosawa,:·, R·a·shomon (1·95t;l) October 21 October 28 November 4 November 11 Federico Fellini, La strode (19:54) · Nc:>vember 18. lngmor Bergman, The Seventh Seed ( 1956) Jean-Luc Godard, Breathless (1959) Francois Truffaut, 400 Blows (1959). Michelangelo Antonioni, .L·avventuro (1960) Recipe of the Week By MAtTEO COVERI ABBONDJO 1/3 ib. bacon (if you do not sympathize with bacon you can as wen avoid using it) SALSAaUaPUTTANESCA (Rome, Italy) . \'*\'The use of olive on is In~redients needed for two necessary••• se~ngs: 6 small onions 6lh bush of parsl£-y 1 can of pee'Jd tonnatoes ( pomodori pelati) . 1 dried hot red 1epper, if.ilot available use Toba sco sauce 1 bottle (or can) of green olives Preparation: Chop the onions, the parsley, the olives, the bacon and the tomatoes .in small pieces. Take a pan, rut olive oilln it and -wait unti it gets. warm. Then pour the onions and the bacon into it and brown them. When the onions are the color of g()ld~ pour the parsley, the olives and the pepper in the pan, too. After one minute pour the tCJmatoes and five .soup spoons of olive oil inthe pan. Let the whole rest on a low fire so part of the sauee evaporates. When the sauee gains a ce~in con- sistency add freshly ground black pepper and serve it on past coClked al dente. Remember to continuously stir the sauce while it is cooking. I hope you will like it and I wish you a great · Buon Appetito

CaHgu,la f{et.urn.s to Rome By ALBERTO IAIA Since the moSt ancient tb:nes, bizarre figures have predominated the polltical scenery of Rorne. one of the best known figures is good ol' GaiU$ Germanicus,. known to his friends as Caiigllla. Caligula's reign was rather brief, but quite active. He Sllcceeded Tiberius in 37 A.D., and his bizarre actions led to his a!!sassination in 41 A.D. While he totally ignored any p<,Jlitical development in the Empire, he was iil fact able to establish a record in the ''Gufuness Book\ for most perverted· Emperor. ae raped anything in sight;- whether male or . female;. his famous toga parties were so wild that they make our fraternity .parti:es look like · memorial services. His disturbed mind went as .far as .givifig a seat in' the Senate to his beloved horse lncitatus. Just think of all the human senators trying to discuss the Shortage of pasta with tbeir equine colleague. Upon graduating from Roma HighSchool,. he was voted ''most likely to become rapist.'' It is only fair to assess that, had. AIDS. been present during Caligula's days, the Roman Empire would· have gall en due to iJnm unodeficiency complications. Although Caligula~s actions belong tothe•past, Rome has the misfort,une of having. another \bizarre\ politician in its Senate in this .day and age. Cicciolina, a very well known porn :star, ran for .office during Italy's last . politi<;al elections. EVERYONE la11ghed at her topless campaigning methods. EVEJRYONE criticized ber motto; \pornography promotes love and peace in the world.'' EVERYONE also voted for this disturbing figure. Tbus, Rome now has a modem version of Caligula, W!'lo readily displays her body in the middle of a political 4ebate. It seems st~i!Igthat an~one,could have voted. tor ner, but let us not foget that Italy is .a funny· country; just think of its shape ... It is almost ironic to compare United Nations Day UN Day is an international United Nations Associations observance marking the an- wmch also sponsor UN Day niversary of the f()unding of the programs. UNA-USA is a United Nations on OctQber 24, · research , and membershi,p 1945. The UN GeneralAssembly organization which informs the adopted a · u.s~sponsored American public on ways to resolution in 1947, stating that make the United Nations more .October 24 ''shall henceforth be .. effective. Its programs include officially called 'United Nations a Parallel St11dies Program Day' and shall be devoted to with leaders ()f the Soviet makiQg known to the peoples of Union, Qhina and Japan' an the world the aims and · Economic Policy Council which achievements of the United makes recommendations on Nations, and to gainiug their international ec<1nomic .policy; support . for the work of the and a national .network of 165 United Nations.\ UN Day is chapters and divisions and 130 a major UN issue. ~hese studies culminate on United Nations Day, :with the publication of a Final Report containing policy recm:nmendations. This year's national UN Day proram, focus~s on the topic of chronic hunger .. Other topics may be selected, depending . on the community's special interest in a UN issue. The Idol commemorated in UN Member affiliated organizations. is now accepting poetry, States throughout the world. · · · UN Day is a national event UN Day is also a community · ' artwork and short stories. procla\une~ every year since observam:e throughout the 1947 by the President of the United States. G()vernors and United States. Tbe National UN mayors appoint state and local Day Chairman, who is ap- UN Day chairmen to' organize pointed by the President, and a programs, and issue UN Day National UN Day Co:mnlittee of .proclamations. National prominent business and labor voluntary associations, through leaders provide leadership for their chapters and individual the national program. members, sponsor and take The United Nations part in these l()cal celebrations, Association of the United States as do branches, clubs, and (UNA-USA) coordinates all UN millions of citizens of all ages. D~y observances in the U.S. Each year the UNA-USA Ov.er sbiy other nations have sponsors a nationwide study on Spring Term ' ~ ... . Abroad,. The· application deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Vienna this coming spring is nearing. There are still some places available and students at.e invited to enroll i~ the program. You have to be at least sophomores and satiSfy - the mininlUIIl prereqUisite for acc~ptan<re which is completion of Getman II. The Austro-American In- stitute in Vienna is organizing several levels of instruction in German which will suit the students' different language abilities and they will provide for housing in. private··families. The \Arts Architecture and · Culture\ course, taught by 1 Professor Kellenter, faculty member in residence, will draw on aU ofVienna's resources and acquaint all students with its rich traditions. Several trips (included ·in the cost of the term) are being planned already~ ~o~g them. a one-week tour from VIenna v1a • Prague, · Czechoslovakia, through East Germany .(Dresden, Weimar, Leipzig, J3erlin), as well as a boat trip on the beautiful Blue Danube tQ the world famous Monastery Melk. Vienna, a magnificent city with its· famous Gothic St. Stephen's Cathedral, its Renaissance and Baroque palaces and monumental buildings, occupies a leading position among. ~e w~rl~'s centers of artisttc anG m· tellectual life. it bas prOd,uced masters of literature and science.; it$ art collections are renowned tbe whole world over; and as a musical center it probably has.no eq!lSl. The cost of the program approximates the cost of a term spent on Union campus. All scholarships currently·received will apply; The ·only additional expense is the round trip air fare to · Vieilna and back. An added attraction . is that students ~rtidP.ating in the spring term can choose to spend some extra time in Europe durin~ the .. s~e~ -,'ithout spending additl()nal air fare •. All interested students should contact the Terms Abroad office, HU 211, for applications and more information as soon as possible. Send submissions to; · · - Joy Cybul Box 542 . Organizational meeting · Tuesday, October 13 7;30 p.m. Hum. U3 Contributors p~ease attend TERMS ABROAD ANNOUNCEMENTS 1. GREECE PR()GRAM WINTER\88 Orientation meeting ' ~, .has been scheduled forllonday,October12 at 4:30 in HU 110 2. SPAIN PROGRAM WINfER'88 Orlentation.meeting has been scheduled ' . forthursday APPLICATION DEADLINE DATE FOR. VIENNA, .AUSTRlA, TERM , . :A.f3R:Q~a~PfltNG 1988 liS . OCTOBER 16 .. FOR INFORMATION AND APPLICATIONS, COME TO HU211 Gary Hart's campaign to Cicciolina's. Hart was forced to withdraw his candidacy due to ususpected adultery\; Cic- ciolina stars l.n the most disgiJSting prono features and is elected to the Italian Parliament. What a country.! ! ! October 24 UN I ON CElEBRATES UNITED NRTIDNS DDY Oktoberjest Comes to Union College ByLYNNDUFFY and EMILY SOO BOO On tlris particular Tuesday night,. it wasn't the music of U2 or Bruce Spring~en that was playing throughout all the rooms of Union College. Rather it was sounds of a German Oompah · Band creating a unique and festive atmosphere, breaking the monotony of the new College Center. The original Oktoberfest taR:es place iil Munich, the southel\n portion of Germany. It · begins around' September 16 and continues for · ap- proximately three weekS. It is a fall festival· celebrating the harvest of crops. One could be led to .believe that the new crop · mainly consisted of hops and ' malt. The reason for this is that the major element of sustenanee is beer and more beer. In addition, some Will still · find room in their bellies for roast chicken, various sausag.es, and a tremendous . load of pretzels. Although Oktoberfest originated in Munich, West Germany, Professor Kellenter explains that it has migrated to other parts of the country as well as traveling abroad. A factor which spread the notion of tbe festival is the rise of tourism in West Germany. Just as the expression of \Gesun- dheit\ has found its way into the American vocabulary, Oktoberfest has been adopted in several areas of the United States. For example, the community at the University of Vermont is familiar with the · anni.tal Oktoberfest at the school. And this year, the fun · and food bas led itself to the peopleatUmon College. The function was made possible with the guidance of Professor Kellenter, instructor of German in the langUage department. She ·:mingled with students asthey all enjoyed her home--baked cakes · and vegetables. with dip. Michele VanPatten, president of the German Club, added . her German insight as well as her experiences·· as a student studying abroad in Vienna. She encourages the study of the German language and hopes that more will participate in the club in the future. V1DEOS FROM BRAZIL Prof. Ester Kosovk·i Wed. 10/14-21-28 and 11/4 6 pm Soc. Sci. Building Room 105 FREE 1 0/14- Carnival in Rio 10/21- Amazonia 10/28: Xingu- Indians In Brazil 11/4- Rio- .Beauty and Danger

. . <lLJilLCllrbirnsis · . Fountlnl at ( imoo C'JJ~ 1877 ----------~ ----~- Bru.tality Union College is such a bea11tiful place, filled with some of the most intelligent students in the country, We have a lot to be proud of; but if we're so amazing~ why is it that we're allowing so: many barbaric acts of violence to occur at our school .. ( In the past six months, · the incidents of attacks on campus has risen to · unacceptable dimensions. Last spring there were two reported attacks on women, one of wl}ich involved Union students. This fall, there have been numerous fights on campus and a case where a woman was attacked walking from Richmond to West. These reported cases are a mere percentage of the actual occurances of such violence. Jt's getting to the point where we have .to be concerned about our safety on campus, where we never were before. Who can you trust? As Dean Alford stated \to destroy the common sense of trust is the most insidious thing that can happen to a community.\ We cannot allow this to happen. Violence will not be tolerated here. College Center Nice, But It's Not Enough As always, Concordiensis extends its welcome to alumni. Haven't been back in a while? You've got a lot to see. The Alumni Gymnasium~ the College Center ... oh yeah the College Center. Are you wondering about the generic name like we are, the class of '88, who remember Carnegie (and the Skellar, and the Pub?) It's obivous, alums, just think. Remember aU those letters and speeches, essentially saying give, give, give? Well, one of you listened all too well, emptied out his accounts, and is soon to have his or her name inscribed above .the doors. It's mercenary, yes, but how else would we get this place? No gripes here, but the Carnegie name should remain in part, because Carnegie established this place, and so much of the structure is still here. So how about Carnegie-Whoever for the new name? No one would be ashamed to have his name next to that of the great phila.Ifthropist (and robber baron). And Cru·negie-Whatever has such a nice ring to it--just ask, Carnegie-Mellon University. There's a lot of other changes you should see. The student body is becoming more diverse, slowly but surely. In the search for different students, Union's even dropped the SAT as an admissions requirement. It's not just a public awareness ploy. The CoJiege wants people from different backgrounds. Almni could help spread the word, and manifest their pride in the school. It would be more effective than all the admisisions brochures in the world. Finally,' looking at the new attributes of the campus, don't be complacent. The Nott, our National Landmark, is crumbling at the heart of campus. The library is still overcrowded, but also in need of more books and periodicals. And just as you were, freshmen are still packed into five-man suites, triples that should have been doubles, and triples that should have been lounges. There are still improvements to make, and we all have to work for them. Concordiensis could use sollle assistance, too. You can help by subscribing to the best Concordiensis yet. Read it, and see what the college needs. letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis LETTERS Greater Awareness Necessary : To the 1 e~tor: mac,ie a SEJ.\ious error in men- tioning tllat the parties involved :For several' years now women in the rapes had abused alcohol have be_ell: . oi!ctively and on the. !light of the incidences. ·positively inv()lved in life at Lawyers in courts hav~ lilt- Union. After ()peJJingits doors to tempted to use a Victim's intelligent, ·nig}lly motivated «Jrun~ennessas an excuse:to get women, the administrators -of the defen-se acquitted· 'by Union should nave made one of claimin~ tllat a woman is not a their first and foremost reliable '\vitness to her own rape priorities the comfortable in- because she had too much to tegration of women i,nto this drink. 'Thi5 practice Is· .illegal in institution. Why, then, after so trials, b~t it still <lcc:urs many years bas Union failed to frequentlr by lawyers Wh() wish meet so manr of our women's to taint tb.e victim's reputation needs? Outside of the academic before Jurors. Mentio11ing the arena, many services that are abuse ()f alcohol in the article crucial in making female was an indirect attempt at students' lives .sde and \Em- excusing the behavior of the joyable are greatly lacking. · menwh[)-eommittedthecr-1mes. ·Perhaps the most important The gir:l:3' drunkenness is thing that needs to ch~ge on irrelevant to. the case-the fact this campus is tlle demeaning is that if f()ur guys decide they attitude towards women that is are going to rape a girl, thElY ·so prevalent .arn~ng students can and'Will do it Whether_~he is and administx:-ators. While I drunk or Slber. Finally, I am believe that tJnion has taken a shocked'tllat the adriliniStration giant step in addressing the of this ,eollege would tak~ the horrifying fss11e of acquain- issue of .a rape so lightly as to tance rape, I was appalled when mer~y place a fraternity where I read parts o.fth.e. article in last a gang roi\pe occurred on social week's ~ewsp~per about the probation for serv'i,ng beer to incidences. 'rite reporter first · minors 1 While I realize 1hat in insulted womEn wlien he stated one case ·the brothers of ()De of that the rapEs \ ... allegedly the fraternities were n()t in~ occurred.\ There is no question volved <iil the rape, I find it as to whether Ol' not these rapes prepostel'~Us that this C()llege occurred; to insinuate that ' would simply sl~p the there is eve11 ll()me remote organization on the wrist and chance that oome girl would ignore th~ rigJ;lts of the victims. risk the public embarrassment This passive attitude towards ()£falsely rep()rting a rape to the the iss lie ~>f rape sends out the dean is an atl'()cioas .insult to all signal to Union's ·students that women. Secondly, the reporter men can. :r.ape a woman and suffer no consequence$ .. Is this th~ t:yp~ of messag~, Qni9n's admiilistrators want to send its grao11ates into,· the world with?·· In order to, · make Union's women saf~r and qappier some changes have toctake place. One •cruoiat part; of our campus, the se(!lltity system, needs to be amellded · immediately. An escort system that is quick and effi<Jient is • a11 absolute necessity·! What good is an esc()rt service that tells a woman she has t<l wait alone in a fraternity for over a half hour to bE. brought home? If for any reason a woman feels un- comfortable in a situation, she should feel as.though she can go home: at ' any time. Perhaps tearns of students _shotild be assigned each night for the spe<ial purpose o.f walking women students aroWld campus after dark. This 'step would make ~- great deal of women feel much more comfortable; women would no longer hlive to walk home alone or remain in situations where they feel un- comfortable becauSe they do 11ot ll~;tve .means of getting home.l'his step will not, by any mearus, rid our campus of the threat rape poses, ~ut I believe that ii security does its job and there is. a greater awareness betwee11 men and women at Union of this problem, we can considerably reduce the risk of this ~rime reoccurring. ~ Sincerely, 'ro11ia Ellsworth Liberal Learning Lacks Le_ew~y To the editor: Union's need for liberal learning courses assumes that all students sho llld experience a · breadth of ~CJwledge in ad- dition to the depth of knowledge in his-her ma..jor, and that the means of encolll'aging students to experience Sllch breadth of knowledge must be strict force~ Thus, all students must take a certain nwnber of courses in several subject areas in order to graduate. As I clli'rently sit in my \F credit\ course, I see that . there is something wrong with Union's liberal learning program. I am paying approximately $1,100 to learn. physics again (I Censor Reading To the editQr : M;:ty I recormnend for reading of students ami faculty alike an article in .AC.ADEME, the Bulletin of the American Association of University Professors (Sept.-oct. 1981 pp . 14-22}? ·This relates to the particularly vexing dilemina of censorship· or none on campus; · for violent pornographic fibns. Resemarie T:CJng has portrayed very well the pr()blems of the moral dilemma which faced faculty· at nearby Williams College. Faclllty debates were correctly inten:se. Her last page covers the facttlty decision not • to censor (but witil provisions to reconsider if following such film screening tile well being of women at WU!iams was significantly jeopardized). fl'he decision bad a very positive influe11ce; students who had considered such screening of porn series decided not to g~1 ahead with sucll plans. R. Tong tlle11 recalls a most appropriate teaching of C'..on· fuciqs - that cultivated human beings do not nteed to be coerced into doing th~ right action. Bill Martin-Professor. Chemistry Department have taken Physics 11 and 13) in far less depth than last time. Wbile tllis course is certainly beneficial for many stLLd.Ents, it is inappropriate for many, including myself, as I would prefer to be taking a more difficult UJ>per level course in my majt;r. The assumpticm that students pl'eferto take as easy a course as p()ssible is Wf'<lng (it in fact Eneourages the expected behavior}~ as is the assumption that a few liberal learning courses are good fi<lr all l';\~itufts~~!bi~tJtt&~# '·\fli\J!~w~, students. Shifting the divisions of li!)eral learning courses will not eU:re these false assump- tions. However, I suppose that if all introductory courses were taugllt keeping in mind that some. ~udents do not plan to go on in the field, or if there were· liberal learning courses with more prerequiSites, then the liberal learning system would · benefit students by allowing them to- take · appropriate courses. Sincerely, Bob Goldstein ., '

~nnrnrbirnsis Foundnl 01 l lmon COI'«t 187;\ ------------ ------ Brutality Union College is such a beautiful place, filled with some of the most intelligent students in the country. We have a lot to be proud of, but if we're so amazing, why is it that we're allowing so many barbaric acts of violence to occur at our school? In the past six months the incidents of attacks on campus has risen to unacceptable dimensions. Last spring there were two reported attacks on women, one of which involved Union students. This fall, there have been numerous fights on campus and a case where a woman was attacked walking from Richmond to West. These reported cases are a mere percentage of the actual occurances of such violence. It's getting to the point where we have .to be concerned about our safety on campus, where we never were before. Who can you trust? As Dean Alford stated \to destroy the common ~en~c uf trust is the most in~idious thing that (;an happen to a community.\ We cannot allow this to happ~n. Violence will not be tolerated here. College Center Nice 9 But It's Not Enough As always, Concordiensis extends its welcome to alumni. Haven't been back in a while? You've got a lot to see. The Alumni Gymnasium\' the College Center ... oh yeah the College Center. Are you wondering about the generic name like we are, the class of '88, who remember Carnegie (and the Skellar, and the Pub?) It's obivous, alums, just think. Remember all those letters and speeches, essentially saying give, give, give? \Veil, one of you listened all too well, emptied out his accounts, and is soon to have his or her name inscribed above the doors. It's mercenary, yes, but how else would we get this place? No gripes here, but the Carnegie name should remain in part, because Carnegie established this place, and so much of the structure is still here. So how about Carnegie-Whoever for the new name? No one would be ashamed to have his name next to that of the great philanthropist (and robber baron). And Carnegie-Whatever has such a nice ring to it--just :1sk, Carnegie-Mellon University. There's a lot of other changes you should see. The student body is becoming more diverse, slowly but surely. In the search for different students, Union's even dropped the SAT as an admissions requirement. It's not just a public awareness ploy. The College wants people from different backgrounds. Almni could help spread the word, and manifest their pride in the school. It would be more effective than all the admisisions brochures in the world. Finally, looking at the new attributes of the campus, don't be complacent. The Nott, our National Landmark, is crumbling at the heart of campus. The library is still overcrowded, but also in need of more books and periodicals. And just as you were, freshmen are still packed into five-man suites, triples that should have been doubles, and triples that should have been lounges. There are still improvements to make, and we all have to work for them. Concordiensis could use some assistance, too. You can help by subscribing to the best Concordiensis yet. Read it, and see what the college needs. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis LETTERS Greater Awareness Necessary To the editor: For several years now women have been actively and positively involved in life at Union. After opening its doors te intelligent. highly motivated women, the administrators of Union should have made one of their first and foremost priorities the comfortable in· tegration of women into this institution. Why, then, after so many years has Union failed to meet so many of our women's needs? Outside of the academic arena, many services that are crucial in making female students' lives safe and en- joyable are greatly lacking. Perhaps the most important thing that needs to change on this campus is the demeaning attitude tewards women that is so prevalent among students and administrators. While 1 believe that Union has taken a giant step in addressing the horrifying issue of acquain- tance rape, I was appalled when I read parts of the article in last week's newspaper about the incidences. The reporter first insulted women when he stated that the rapes \ ... allegedly occurred.\ There is no question as to whether or not these rapes . occurred; to insinuate that there is even some remote chance that some girl would risk the public embarrassment of falsely reporting a rape to the dean is an atrocious insult to all women. Secondly, the reporter made a serious error in men- tioning that the parties involved in the rapes had abused alcohol on the night of the incidences. Lawyers in courts have at- tempted to use a victim's drunkenness as an excuse to get the defense acquitted by claiming that a woman is not a reliable witness to her own rape because she had too much to drink. This practice is tllegal in trials, but it still occurs frequently by lawyers who wish to taint the victim's reputation before jurors. Mentioning the abuse of alcohol in the article was an indirect attempt at ex:cusing the behavior of the men who committed the crimes. The girls' dnmkenness is irrelevant to the case-the fact is that if four guys decide they are going to rape a girl, they can and will do it whether she is drtmk or sober. Finally, I am shocked that the administration of this college would take the issue of a rape so lightly as to merely place a fraternity where a gang rape occurred on social pr<>bation for serving beer to minors! While I realize that in one case the brothers of one of the fraternities were not in- volved in the rape, I find it preposterous that this college would simply slap the organization on the wrist and ignore the rights of the victims. This passive attitude towards the issue of rape sends out the signal to Union's students that men can rape a woman and suffer no consequences. Is this the typ~ of message. Union's administrators want to send its graduates into the world with? In order to make Union's women safer and happier same changes have to take place. One · cmcial part of our campus, the security system, needs to be amended immediately. An escort system that is quick and efficient is · an absolute necessity! What good is an escort service that tells a woman she has to wait alone in a fraternity for over a half bour to be bFought home? If for any reason a woman feels 1lll- comf()ctable in a situation, she shauld feel as though she can go home at any time. Perhaps teams of students sheuld be assigned each night for the special purpose of walking women students around campus after dark. This step would make a great deal of women feel much more comfortable; women would no longer have to walk llorne alone or remain in situatiuns where they feel un- comfortable because they do not have means of getting home. This step will not, by any means, rid our campus of the threat rape poses, but I believe that if security does its job and there is a greater awareness between men and women at Union of this problem, we can considerably reduce the risk of this crime reoccurring. Sincerely, Tonia Ellsworth Liberal Learning Lacks Leew~y To the editor: Union's need for liberal learning courses assmnes that all students should experience a breadth of knowledge in ad- dition to the depth of knowledge in his-her major, and that the means of encouraging students to experience such breadth of knowledge must be strict force. Thus, aU students must take a certain number of courses in several subject areas in order to graduate. As I currently sit in my \F credit\ course, I see that there is something wrong with Union's liberal learning program. I am paying approximately $1,100 to learn physics again (I Censor Reading To the editqr: May I recoiill11end for reading of students and faculty alike an article in ACADEME, the Bulletin of the American Association of University Professors (Sept.-Oct. 1987 pp 14-22) '? ·This relates to the particularly vexing dilenuna of censorship or none on campus· for violent pornographic films. Resemarie Tong has portrayed very well tbe problems of the moral dilemma which faced faculty at nearby Williams College. Faculty debates were correctly intense. Her last page covers the faculty decision not to censor (but with provisions to reconsider iJ following such film screening the well being of women at Williams was significantly jeopardized). 1 The decision had a very positive influence; students who had considered such screening of porn series decided not to go ahead with such plans. R. Tong then recalls a most appropriate teaching of C'AJn· fucius - that cultivated human beings do not need to be coerced into doing the right action. Bill Martin-Professor Chemistry Department have taken Physics 11 and 13) in far less depth than last time. While this course is certainly beneficial for rnany students, it is inappropriate for many, including myself, as I would prefer to be taking a more difficult upper level course in my major. The assumption that students prefer to take as easy a course as possible is wrong (it in fact encourages the expected behavior), as is the assumption that a few liberal learning courses are good for all students. Shifting the divisions of liberal learning courses will not cure these false assump- tions. However, I suppose that if all introductory courses were taught keeping in mind that some students do not plan to go on in the field, or if there were liberal learning courses with more prerequisites, then the liberal learning system would benefit students by allowing them to take appropriate courses. Sincerely, Bob Goldstein Editors-in Chief David Gulliver, Lee Ann Schmidt News Editors Fiona Shukri. R. Reed Whidden F~atu:re.s Editors Maxjorie Hoffer, Cathy Markes. Wendy Zlmmennan Jntem.ational Features Editor Ga:ry Steinbaum Seienee Editw Jennifer KQVe COllltnentaty Page Editors Stuart Sands Arts Ediroi'S lim :MacLaughlin, Jan Goldstein Camp4$ Page Editors Athena Ling, Kelley Par:lt Sp()fts .Editors Cl\ti~ Hinckley, AnQre}V Millet AdvertiSing Editoi:ll Jacki Be14 Lisa Or®wet.· A$$-•t -+<iv~$1ng Editor . .·· . . . . .·. . 1,.~4,~1:0\'/A, BUg,ifMs 1Yf~· 'Beth t'Jb<?rlsmit'h. ~obin Jacnhs&t · .P:ltot¢: :Jik1JtQrs, · : .. ,~~=;:~wrattisor · . 'JTAF:F'l ~~tteo Coveri Abbondi<>, :1~ff Albr~Ju; .JM'Sty ~ea}j,';' .. EUza~dt Jt:-tliner, Gail l3lumeru~id;. l<ris Butnh.am. Laura Ctd.Vi; Dusty Cohen~,lohn Cohn, Steven Cole, J~-y Cybuk Alan DeSalvio, Chidsey Dickson, Wu Yu Dong, Lynn Duffy, Amy Elizabeth, Dina Golas. Ua:na Hand, Chris Harttnanr1~ Ka.tlly Hawke, Debra Honig, Alberto Iaia. Lina Leung. Stan Kitzinge.:r, M!!lissa Levine. Ed Lin, Franz Litz, Mary Beth Manning, Tim Matthews, Virgi.ni.e Mello, Tim Mica], Leslie Morris. Lin Ngamtraku1panit, Stacey Papa. Liz Perkowitz, Nick Piccirillo, Tracey Prylu(;k, Sandra Roth. Michelle Ruelos, Kristen Santos, Jorg Schaldach, Ezra Shennan, Charlie Slotnik, Emily Soo Hoo, Conrad Tatge; Paul Weeden. Mark Zimmennan. CONCORDIENSIS is published every Thursday by the student body of Union College, Schenectady, N'e'i.v York t 2308; Publications Office; Susquehanna Publicaiton, Inc., B()X 388. Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered .anywhere in the United States. Concordlensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press {IP). Office Tel~pllone(518) 370-6155. I •· ,, ' II :! I ' ~

,, . 'C!I!J.NC(fJRiJIENSlS,~.tJc'tO.IJer·~w~ ,'J981 ·· ''.91. '13igger anc£ '13etter V.\ -t .:1·,:~;}; The construction • •• • ~~~~~- :·fj;;1-H~ \\ UU \ l\ ,:1 ... And the Openings President Morris cuts the ribbons at the Alumni Gym and tlu College Center. Page :1l

I ,, ,, ' II :f ' ' t CONCORDIENSI.S, October 8, 1987 ''.91. tRigger and 13etter ru II The construction m c D And ~~e O~en1~rug~ II II • President Morris cuts the ribbons at the Alumni Gym and the College Center. It : ' I :~, f1J. w,-~1 \C . .J .t ~·\·:;_Ht> ·~ ··\~-··~-':,'' Page 11

Please register at the Alumni Office in Lamont House to receive your 1988 Unio'n College pocket calendar. Friday and Saturday: 9:00 . a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Alumni Office Telephone: (518) 370-6168. The Student Activities Information Center and Box Office in the College Center will be open Friday from 7:30 a.m. to 2:00 a.m. and .: · Saturday from 10:30 a.m. ·to 2:00 :: am. Friday,· Octob,er 9 8:30 a.m-4:30 p.m. Open Classeso Alumni, parents and friends are .invited to join Union's students. Class schedules are available at Lamont House. 4:00 p.m. Men's Cross Country vs. Colgate. Central Park. 4:00p.m Women's Soccer vs. Wells. Garis Field. · 6:30 p.m. Annual Fund Appreciation Dinner. College Center. Coctails 6:30 p.m.- Dinner 7:30p.m. 7:00/9:00/11:00 p.m. Movie \Star Trek IV}' Auditoriurn, College Center. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities B()x: Office, College Center. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. For picture/preview of Emo Phillips, see page 17. 8:00 p.m. An Evening of Comedy with Emo Phillips. Memorial Chapel. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities box Office, College Center. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. Saturday, October 10 8:00 a.m.-10:00 a.m ... Class Agents Breakfast/Workshop. Hale House Dining Room. Get a headstart on the big game ~ over· brunch at West College with the team 9:30a.m. Breakfast with th.e Dutchmen Football Team. West College Dining Ro()m. Join the 1987 squad and coaches \Dutch Treat\ .. 10:00 a.m. Parents Committee Me.eting. Milano Lounge, Hale House. 10:00 a.m. R.A. ReUnion. College Center. 10:00 a.m. Union College Video Tape. Auditorium, College Center. Produced by ihe Admissions office for student recruitment. II • t er ant . ' Academic P·resentations & Recep.tions 10:30 a.m.-Noon Adademic Presenta:tions/Receptions. Everyone is in.vited to Join the following faculties to learn what's new in your major and other areas of interest . . -· ~ .,. 1.. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. ClassiS; English~ Modem languages, Philosophy. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Building. Arts,, Atrium (2nd Floor). Arts Building. II.. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management Institute (formerly I.A.M.). Political . Science,. Socwlogy and Antrhopology. \Morality and American Foreign Poliey\ Room 103, Social Sciences Building. . III. Faculty of the Sciences. Biological Sciences. Room 103, Science and Engineering Center. Chemistry, Room N 116, Science and engineering Center. Geology, Room 201, Butt~rfield Hall. Mathematic's, Room 200, Bailey Hall. PhysiCs, Room N 114, Science and engineering Center. Psychology, Room 204,. Psychology Building. W. Faculty of Engineering and Applied ~clence. Civil Engineering, Room 109, Butterfield Hall. Electrical Engineering/ Computer Science, Rooms 100 and 101, Steinmetz Hall. A4echanicalEngi.neering, Room N 205 (Lab), Science and Engineering Center. . . ·\'. ,; .. ·~· ,, :'·;;'~~:.t\.~'~\~\~;.~;tif~(~~h.~\;~~·'~~l\#~:~;;'· . Soccer! vs. Plattsburgh 12:00 .Noon Garis Football vs. WPI on the Turf at 1:30 p.m. 11:00 a.m. Highlight 11:00 a.nt. .Highlights of the 1986 Dutchemen 's Outstanding football Season.. WRUC ALUMNI 12:.00. p.m. Men's Soccer vs. Plattsburgh. Garis Field. 11:0() a.m.-2:30 p.m. Lunc:::ll. Dutch Hollow- Restaurant, College Cent ct. 11 :3() a.m. -3:30 p.m. Refresllments available at Artificial turf Field .. Beverages, hot dogs. hamburgers and p.tzza. Sponsored by Unioo•s Men's and Women's Lacrosse Teams There wlU be a reception in the new Station (College Center, roo·m 403) immediately· after Saturday's football game. Come .and ·meet this yeats executive board and station enthusiasts. 11:30 a.r 11:45 a.r; Porch. 11:45 a.n 12:00 p.l Chapel. 12:00 p.; park. 12:15 p.i 1:30 p.tn present1 at halftir 4:00p.m 4:00p.m join Pres Chapel iJ Late AjtE Parties. Float A: Pre l

etter ll Saturday, Q:ctober 10 .~ont. 11:30a.m. Music by Union's Dutch Plpers. Lamont House Porch.' 11:45 -a.m. Music by Union's Garnet Minstrelles. Lamont House Porch. 11 :45 a.m Terrace Council Luncheon. Music by the Dutch Pipers & Gamet Ministrelles 11:30-Noon Lamont House Porch 12:00 p.m. Bells Concert by ·Peter K. Smith '70. Memorial Chapel. · . 12:00 p.m. Women's Cross Country. Capital District Meet. Central park. 12:15p.m. Annual Homecoming Parade; \' 1:30 p.tn. Football-Union vs. W.P.I. President JohnS. Morris will present the Stephen P. Bro:wn MeJ?.lOrial Trophy and Float Awards at halftime. . · .~ 4:00p.m. Men's J.V. Soccer vs. Oneonta. Garis Field. 4:00 p .. m.-5:00 p.m. President's Reception .. Everyone is invited to join President and Mrs. Morris on Schaffer Library Plaza (or Old Chapel if the weather is i~clement) .. Late Afternoon and Evening Fraternity and Sorority Homecoming Parties. · Float Awards, and the Brown Cup, WiU Be Presented at Hatftime \'\: .... ~ . . Proper futniture, headgear, and beverage are required. Union College ·Choir Concert Saturday, October lOth at 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel Free Admission Everyone invited to attend ~i>coMI!vo /J:o -t.g<P,.:1 ~ ~l!:'.R A\NP ~ Late Aftc1rnoon and Evening Fraternity and Sorority Homecoming · . Parties 5:30p.m. and 7:00p.m. Dutchmen's Night. Dutch Hollow Restaurant, College Center. Menu features nouvelle cuisine in addition to prime rib, steak and seafood. $1 1.00 per person. Limited seating. 7:00/'9:00/11:00 p.m Movie \Star Trek IV.\ Auditorium, College Center. 8:00p.m. Union College Choir Annual Homecoming Concert. Memorial Chapel. 9:30 p.m..-11 :30 p.m. Student/ Alumni Open House. Atrium. College Center. Jazz entertainment, snacks, beverages. Sunday, October 11 9:00 a.m.-12:00 p.m. Homegoing Brunch. Dutch Hollow Restaurant. College Center. Adults $6.00~ Under 12 $4.00. 10:15 a.m Homecoming Chapel Serviceo Memorial Chapel. 7:00/9:00/11:00 p.m Movie \Star Trek IV.\ Auditorium, College Center. Admissions lnterv;iews. The Admissions Office will be open all day Friday and on Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to Noon specifically for interviews with alumni sons and daughters. Please contact the Admissions Office for an appointment at least two weeks in advance: (518) 370- 6112. Campus Store. College Center. Friday 8:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. West College Dining Hall and Upperclassmen's Dining Room. Friday, October 9 and Saturday, October 10- Dinnctr: 5:00 p.m. to 6:30p.m. Par~ing. Please use lot on corner of Seward Place and Nott Street and the lot behind Memorial Fieidhouse. Campus roadways are clas·sified as Fire lanes and must be kept clear. Accommodations and Child Care. If you desire a list of area motels or a Ust of students whom you may contact for a babysitter during the weekend, please call the Alum.Iii Office one month in advance at (518) 370-6168. Remember: ReUnion Weekend 1988 June 10,11 & 12

P·age_ 14· TBB £.11 'l'BS'l' THING lNHBRBOBS are always at Electric City . Co1nics. · \Schenectady's Oldest & Largest Comic Book Store\ 1704 Van Vra11kem Ave. 3·77 15·0·0 Schenectady . • NEW HOURS: Mon.-Fri .. 11..;6:30, Sat. 11-5.:30 ONLY THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS Copyright 1987 Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc. All rights reserved. All Marvel titles, <:haracter names,and their likeness~s are trademarks -of th~ Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc. Friday 7:30 a.m.~l.o.~oo .a .. U\ •... --. , Breakfast Saturday ·lo!od a.M:;:f'8!~o 1 l~m~· · r · · ()61ltin~tt1liD1f'll~~~k:fa'St - . , Sdda;sr' .. :; l.@;t00t,a~m;?10\:B&.·~~•· { ·.,_ Continental Bre~(a,$t . Saturday·.· · ·S~t~~~~~·,-···-:: ... _·,- · , _Sunday .. 7 :00 a.m ... ;t :00 a.m. \' ......... _ ...... \\: ............................................. ·c·o upon ........................................................................... \ ~ ' ~ . ; Night Shift Wing- s : : · 10 Jay Street · : ' ' ' ' ~ FREE CHICKEN WINGS!- : ' \ ·1 Buy 2 Dozen And ~ : Get 1 Dozen Free! : . We Deliver 381-8816 Offer Expires 11-1-87 t. - -... ... -- .... - ................... • ................... ,. .......... , c o:u p-o ~ ..... , .................................. ... : .............. -- ..... - ...:.. ... . . --<-··:.:; . ROMA APPI_ A_· N WAY . - :Flne. 'Ltafian Restau,.rant Welcomes ALUMNI on Homecoming Weekend Homemade: Pasta Bremd . Veal And Seafood Speeialfies RESI AU,RANI 1841 VANVRANKEN AVENUE 370-403·0 Regular ·Menu featured ali day· , Friday .. _,._. '• Saturday RegularMenu until 5~00 p.m. . . · .. __ , -. . ·nufcHMEN'S Nl:GHT;D!NNIB+:<£:.;;': ; ;<;·, .. . '

Page 14 CONCORDlENSlS, Octobe,r . 8, 19111 ~ ..... - ........................................................ ,coupon ......................................................................... ~ ~ Nig· ht Shift Wings : ~ · lOJay Street ~ ' ~ ' ~ : FREE CHICKEN WINGS! ~ 1 Buy 2 Dozen And ~ . ~ Get 1 Dozen Free! : ' ' ~ \ ~ t We Deliver 381-8816 \ ' ~ Offer Expires 11-1-87 : ·~ ~ \ ... , .............. - ,... ........................... .,. ............... ~coupon ................................................................ _ ........... \' ROMA APPIAN WAY f'tne 1.tafian Restaurant Welcomes ALU~MNI on Homecoming Weekend THE LATEST TBlNG INHBRBOBS Homemade: Pasta Bread . aze always at Electric City ~COIJJiC!i~ Veal And Seafood Specialties \Schenectady's Oldest & Largest Comic Book Store\ 1704 Van Yranken Ave. 3lJ- 1 500 Schenectady NEW H·OURS: RESTAURANT Mon.-Fri. 11-6:30, Sat. 11-5:3-0 ONLY THREE BLOCKS FROM CAMPUS 1841 VANVRANKEN AVENUE 370-4030 Copyright 1987 Marvel Entertainment Group, Inc. All righ1s reserved. All Marvel titles, character names,and their likenesses are trademarks of the Marvel Entertainment Group, lrtc. Welcome Alumni!· The :following schedule wiD. be in.e:ffect during Homecomitlg Weekend for your conveni~noo. · Cash sales are wekom.e at allltJt)ations. Friday Saturday Sunday Friday Saturday Sunday Friday Sattcrd~y Sunday Friday Saturday Sunday 7:30 a.m.-10:00 a.m. Breakfast 10:00 a.m.-10\:30 a.m. 1 Continental Breakfast 10:00 a.m.-10:30 a.m. Continental Breakfast WEST COLLEGE 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Lun,ch 11:30 a.m.-1:30 pcm, Brunch 11:30 a.m.-1 :30 p .. m .. Brunch UPPERCLASSMEN'S DINING HALL 8:00 a.m.-7~30 p.m. Regular Menu 12:0fl ~oon-7:36 p.m. Regular Menu (2nrl floor~ College Center Building) 11 ~ao a.m . .-1:~5 p.m .. Lunch. 11:30 a.l,ll.-1:00 p.,m. . Brunch. 11:80 a.m. ... l:OO p.m. B:rtineh · · RATBltiiELL.At'St .. 12:00 noonwl2:00 midnight 7:00 a.m .... t:OO a.m. DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURAN'i\' (Main floor, ground level-College Center) Regular ·Menu featured all day Regular Menu until 5:00 p.m. DUTCHMEN'S NIGHT DINNER 5:00 p.m.-7:00p.m. Dinner 5:00 p.m .... 7:00 p.m. Dinne:r 5:00 p.m.-7:00 p.m. Dinner 5:oo p.m.-s:ao p.m. Dinner 5:oo p.mA3t30 p.m. Dinner - · 5::00 p.m.. .. es:a·o p.m.· Dinnet' 9:00 p.nl. .. l:OO '&.:m·· , _. · 21 Club . .. 9:0() p.rn.-1 :00 a.m. 21'Club 5:30p.m. - 1st sitting---,.....7:00 p.m. ~2nd sitting . $11.00 per person ()f' Meal Card Puncn. Advance reseTVations requested thTough Thursday, October 8, 1987. For additional, litnited seating inquir~ at extension 6051 between 2.:()0 p.:m. ~4:00p.m. on Friday and Saturday. 9:00 a.m.-12 noon . Hoxnegoing Brunch. 0 $6,00 per pers<ln or Meal Card Punch. Ad-vanee reservations requested by Thursday, October 8, 19B7. For additi0cnal, limited seating inquire at. extension 6091 ~tween 2:()9 p.iTL :-· 4:00 p.fll. OJ.1 :Fri(}a ana Saturday. ,(/.

.. ll · lJetcome &a.c~ stud.ents ant! parents. SENIOR PRE-MED STUDENTS. . . ·we wt.t be opEn 8atud.ay a:~1-d: 8unr!a.y Could you use a S(!holorship .for medical school? Why not investigate the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program, with sponsorship by the U..S. Air Force. Current senior premedical students of medicine or osteopathy may now compete for Air Force sc:holorship.c;. We want to help you· contin·J,j your education. Contact your local A r Force heafth professions represen- tative for detai.ls. Call . from 1 t :00 (l;m •tiJ 1:00 a.m . . Let us 1!1-a~e your weeR,end. specia.r .. MtiNHf\ tlN - ~~qjll~~i;~ 605 Union Street · '3.74-5930 Capt AI Gugenberger 1 ~b;.·\'~-USA -USAF Sc.ience Majors PAPA 1 nterested 'in Medical Research? Ap.plications to PhD programs ih Anatomy/Cell Biology, Biochemistry/Molecular 13 iology, Microbi:ologylimmilnology, P.harmaco.logy, and Physiology Cell and ~orecular Biology Neuroscience Are Now· Being Accepted. Assistantships Are Available. For More Information Contact: SUNY Health Science Center at Syracuse College of Graduate Studies ·rso East Adams Street Syracuse, NY 13210 Affirmative Action I Equal Opportunity Institution , CICCO'S PIZZA 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched delivery truck which enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and we will send our well stocked truck to your location. SUNDAY IS SODA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receiveaFREE32oz. COKE. ·PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mar- chand ise you will receive one coupon. Save thAm and collect FREE merchandibe. LARGE PARTIES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE Ho111eco111ing Brunch Sunday, October 11th Mak~ reservations now, with Dutch Hollow • Restaurant cashier. , Adults $6.00 Children under 12$4.00 · or meal card punch with school I. D. -ALL YOU CAN EAT-

ll lJdcome bac~ stucients anti parents .. We wi.[ &e open Sa.tud:ay and: Sunria.y J rom t 1 ::00 a.rn •tt,[ 1 :00 am . . SENIOR PRE-MED STUDENTS. Col!lld you use a sgholorship for ned leal school? Why not investigate the Armed Forc:es Health Professions Scholarsl:lip Program, with sponsorship by the U.S. Air Force. Current senior premedical students of· nedicine or osteopathy mo¥ now compete for Air Force sGholarshi~'>. We want to help veucontin~.., your.education. Cr>ntact your local A r Force heolth professions represen- t(ltive for details. Call Let us ma~e you-r we.ek,e.nd: specia[ .. MfiNHI\ t1N I W ~~~IH4~~~ 605 Union Street 3.74-5930 Capt AI Gugenberger 1- b< \~-USA- USAF --- - _._..,._ - I! ===· ..... _... ma. --·--:-. ... ..> ______ .,. Ill' _.._._... .. _... ~-==-~ !!\' Science Majors PAPA CICCO'S Interested in Medical Research? Applications to PhD programs in Anatomy/Cell Biol:ogy, Biochemistry/Molecular B i:ol ogy, Microbi.ologyflmm unology, Pharmacology, and Physiology Cell and Mo l·ecular Biology Neuroscience Are Now Being Accepted. Assistantships Are Available. For More Information Contact: SUNY Healtll Science Center at Syracuse College o-f Graduate Studies 750 East Adams Street Syracuse, NY 1321 0 Affirmative Action r Equal Opportunity Institution PIZZ:A 374-4332 Watch for our radio dispatched del iyery truck w:hich enables us to give you 10 MINUTE DELIVERY service. Call us and we will send our well stocked truck to your location. SUNDAY IS s·ooA DAY AT PAPA CICCO'S with every order over $5.00 you will receive a FREE 32 oz. COKE. · PLAY the coupon game. For every $5.00 worth of mer- chandise you wil:l receive one coupon. Save thAm and collect FREE marchand be. LARGE PARTIES ARE OUR SPECIALTIES CALL US, LET'S MAKE A DEAL. WE DELIVER FREE Hom.ecoming Brunch Sunday, October 11th Make re·servations now, with Dutch Hollow • Restaurant cashier. Adults $6.00 Children under 12$4.00 or meal card punch with school I.D. -ALL YOU CAN EAT-

' Page 16 CONCORDIENSlS, Oct9btJr 8, 1987 ARTS/FILMS ... Union Professor Vera Orlock • •• • ··Mountebanks prese.nts • • • Have Dance, Will Travel ByEL~BETHBERL~E~ To many Union stude11ts, Ute hike across campus .seems far enough to go for dass. However, tD Professor Vera Orlock, Union's da11ce in- structor, it seems like n()1hing in that each week she comes all the way from New York City for a two-day stay of dan()e in- struction. Slle then returns home to perform in t»oth the Mimi Garrard and JSancy Meehan Dance Compa11ies, as well as performing much of ber own choreograp)ly. ~ North Carolina. choreographs its own per· formances and hOpes to do a fonnal concert in the spring and a less formal display in the winter. A flurJ:\Y of new activity is surfacing in the dan~e field and much of it can be attrib11te:d to the ·obvious talent an.d inexhaustible energy of Professor Orlock. Why Nott??? By'JANOOLDSTEIN Why Nott?? ? Why not ex- perience theatre at Union! Mountebanks., Union's student theatre grollp; will be spon- soring the f~st annual Theatre Festival k~m Wednesday, October :a~ to Sunday, . NQvember 1. Throughout these · · five days, lo()k .for theatrical surprises in the atriwn of the College Center. A Mountebanks Cabaret on Drursday, the 29th, Dinner The11tre on the weekend, and a camp11S-wid~ Talent Show are all opell acti~ities .for all students, faculty, and ad• ministratio11 t() particfpate in. The Dinner Theatre, .mugene Ionesco's allsurdist comedy, The Black Suprano, will be presented oll October 30 and 31 in the upper . .class dining hall in the College Center. The price Arts for this even~· will be the punch of any meal card or $10~50. Information concerning reservations will be available soon. The culmination of the Theatrical Festival occurs with the Catnpus .. Wide Talent Show. This is the campus conttnl.Ulity• at-large's chailce to get in- volved. With ~a¢~tY and ad- ministration judges, prizes .for all, and $1011 cash first prize, the show should be quite a success. Mountebanks will provide SOWld and lighting to com- pliment all acts. Old Chapel should be the happening place on November l.st, so get your act together. Look for 'lbeatre Festivel T- shirts, butt()ns, and other surprises aU over campus. Why Nott??? ' Briefs Sitting outside on the steps of the Arts building, Professor Or lock took a few minutes to tell her story. She was born in Philadelphia and attended the Philadelphia. School for Girls with a major in tlte arts. Ironically, she became involved with dance by default in high school when she was clO:sed out of her first choice for PE: tennis. She then received her B.A. in Harp and a MFA in Dance and Theater. Witb a grant from the Obi() Arts CoWicil, she foWJded lleJ; own dance company in Ohio · 1.Ult~ becoming a visiting assistant professor at the University of Professor (}rl()ck is now ~ginning her seco11d year here at Union. She tea()hes ballet~ modern daace.. jazz, im- provisational, reJ;)t!ratory, and, in the spring,. will ip.struct a class called~ ''The . Dan()e Experience.\ Jilth()ugh there is no official da!lce major here at Union, there ueapprox:imately r.;::::::=::::::::::;;::;:;;::;.:;:;:;,;;;:::;:=.;;;;} fifty students involved, in• cluding college students, .• faculty, and ~· few outsiders. The classes meet twice a week for 90 minutes and range from the very ba~e level for tlle une:xperiencetl. to the mf1re advanced levels of tridning. Later on in the )ear, Union will • welcome guest instructors Sllcb as the famed Danny Lek()ff : from NYC an-d Nina Nelson · from West Nicbi.gan Univer· • ·Craft Fair 60's American sity. · Though lfnion's da!lee . · department mar be small, tile Student Da11ce Ensemble Union Arts- Faculty ·Exhibi:t • The Studio Arts and Music Faculty will be exibiting their own works ,as well .as the work of their students.on Homecoming Weekend. The &xibit will open to the public frol111'0a.m. until 4 p.m. Friday-Sunday, October 9-11 in tbe Burn Atrium, located in the Arts Building.(ln carnpusr Visitors are urged to park in the parking lot whicll borders Seward Place and :~ott Street. • TICKETS FOR PLAYS AT PROCTORS THEATER have been purchased at a great price- take advantage of this wonderful opportunity Circus Royale 1 0/11 Beehive 1.1/1 B Waves 11/19 King & 11/28 Big River 2/14 M·ummenschatz 2/25 Festival On Ice 3/18 Dave Brubeck 4/16 South Pacific 4/21 Momix 5/5 Canadian Brass 5/13 TICKETS ON SALE AT THE INf.ORMAli'ON BOOTH· COLLEGE CENTER Area _ Concerts Glenns Falls Civic Center 1 0/25: Aerosmith., Dokken Palace Theatre (Aiban·y) 10/18: Suzanne Vega · 10/29: INXS 11/18: Bo Diddley 12/18: George Winston RPI Fieldhouse (Troy) 10/l 0: The Hooters. Out of Control, Rhythm & Blues BOnd,. Chris Busone & the Rain, Rock&Hyde 1 0/11 : Heart The New Y '()rk.State Museum, on Oct. 10,. will sponsor tour visits to thoe Bear Mountain State Park f10r the 17th ai\JiU'ill \lnvitationali Exhibition ·and craft Fmr; A tour of the Brotherhoocl Winery in Washim~toll ville is also in- . elUded. The · fee is $22 for members IUld $27 for non· members. DEparture time from the muselllll :is 9 a.m. and return is 6 p.m. F()l.\ more information, call474-5801. ' Poet Pinsky to Speak at Union- union Cdllege presents poet, critic, and translator Robert Pinsky on 'Thesday, Oct. 13 in the Humanities LoWlge. Pinsky is this term 1 s- Lamont Visiting Professor in the Englich Departme11t .. he will present a reading of llis work at 8 p.m. ·Admission is free and the public is welcomt . The 1987 American Tradition Film Series presents, \American Art in the 60's\ on Tuesday, Ocl. 13 from 12:10 to 1:10 p.m. The film will be .shown in the Concourse level auditorium at the ·New York State Museum and is part of an ongoing series. Skidmore · Symposium Skidmore College in Saratoga - will open its Symposium on the American Theatre on Friday,· Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. Keynote speaker Robert Brustem will begin .the Symposium, which wlll deal with critical iSS'U,eS facing the American Theatre. On Satur- day, Oct. Ul, four panel discussions will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Tb:e public is invited and admission is free. For additional information, please call Skidmore Theatre ~ooo. ext. ~7.

Page Hi CONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1987 ARTS/FILMS Union Professor Vera Orlock • e • .Mo:untebanks presents Why Nott??? • • • Have Dance, Will Travel By ELIZABETH BERLINER To many Union students, the hike across campus seems far enough to go for class. However, to Professor Vera Orlock. Union's dance in- structor, it seems like nothing in that eadt week she comes all the way ~rom New York City for a two-day stay of dance in- structi(m. She then returns home tQ perform in both the Min:ti Garrard and Nancy Meehan Dance Companies, as well as performing much of her own ch()reography. bi;f~ ~. North Carolina. choreographs its own per· fonnances and hopes to do a formal concert in the spring a11d a less formal display in the winter. A flurry of new activity is surfacing in the dance field and much of it can be attrib11ted to the obvious talent and inexhaustible energy ()f Professor Orlock. lly J!\N GOLDSTEIN Why Nott? '?? Why not ex- perien~e theatre at Union! Mounteb;mks, Union's student theatre group, will be spon- soring tile first annual Theatre Festival from Wednesday, October 28 to Sunday, Novern ber 1. Throughout these · five day-s, look for theatrical surprises in the atriwn of tlle CollegeCenter. A Mountebanks Cabaret on Thursday, the 2!nh, Dinner T'heatre on the weekend, and a t:mipus-wide Talent Show are all ()pen activities for all students, faculty, and ad- ministration te participate in. The Dinner Theatre, Eugene Ionesco~s absurdist comedy, The Black Soprano, will be presented on October 30 and 31 in the upper class dining hall in the CollEge Center. The price Arts for this evening will be the punch of any meal card or $10.50. Information concerning reservati0ns will be available soon. The culmination of the Theatrical Festival occurs with the Campus-Wide Talent Show. This is the campus community- at-large's chance to get in- volved. With faculty and ad- ministration judges, prizes for all, and $100 cash first prize, the show should be quite a success. Mountebanks will provide sound and lighting to com- pliment all acts. Old Chapel should be the happening place on November 1st, so get your act together. Look for Theatre Festivel T- shirts, buttans, and other surprises all over campus. Why Nott??? Briefs Sittillg outside on the steps of the Arts building, Professor Orl()ck took a few minutes to tell her story. She was born in Philadelphia and attended the Philadelphia School for Girls with a major in the arts. Ironically, she became involved with dance by default in high scheol when she was closed out of her first choice for PE : tennis. She then received her B.A. iii Harp and a MFA in Dance and Theater. With a grant from the Ohio Arts Council, she foWlded her own dance company in Ohio until,., becoming a visiting assistant profe~or at the University of Professor Orlock is now beginning her second year here at Union. She teaches ballet, modern dance, jazz, im- provisational, reperatory, and, in the spring, will instruct a class called, \The Dance Experience.'' Although there is no official dance major here at Union. there are approximately Iii==========; fifty students involved, in- cluding college students, faculty, and a few outsiders. The classes meet twice a week for 90 minutes and range from the very basic level for the unexperienced to the more advanced levels of training. Later on in the year, Union will welcome guest instructors such as the famed Danny Lekoff from NYC and Nina Nelson from West Michigan Univer- Craft Fair 60's American sity. Though Union's dance department may be small, the Student Dance Ensemble Union Arts Faculty Exhibit The Studio Arts and Music Faculty will be exibiting their owrc works ,as well as the work of their students on Homecoming Weekend. The exibit will open to the public from 1 Oa.m. until 4 p.m. Friday-Sunday, October 9-11 in tM Burn Atrium, located in the Arts Building on campus. Visitors me urged to park in the parking lot which borders Seward Place and Nett Street. ' TICKETS FOR PLAYS AT PROCTORS THEATER have been purchased at a great price- take advantage of this wonderful opportunity Circus Royale 10/11 Beehive 11/18 Waves 11/19 King & 11/28 8 ig River 2/14 Mummenschatz 2/25 Festival On Ice 3/18 Dave Brubeck 4/16 South Pacific 4/21 Momix 5/5 Canadian Brass 5/13 TICKETS ON SALE AT THE INFORMATION BOOTH- COLLEGE CENTER Area Concerts Glenns Falls Civic Cent-er 10/25: Aerosmith. Dokken Palace Theatre (Albany) 10/18: Suzanne Vega 10/29: INXS 11 I 18: Bo Diddley 12/18: George Winston RPI Fieldhouse (Troy) 10/10: The Hooters, Out of Control, Rhythm & Blues Band, Chris Busone & the Rain. Rock& Hyde 10/11: Heart The New York State Musewn, on Oct. 10, will sponsor tour visits to the Bear Mountain State Park for the 17th annu':ll Invitational Exhibition and Craft Fair. A tour of the Brotherhood Winery in Washinl!tonville is also in- cluded. The fee is $22 for members and $27 for nonG members. Departure time from the mllSeum is 9 a.m. and return is 6 p.m. For more information, call 47 4-5801. Poet Pinsky to Speak at Union Uni()n College presents poet, critic, and translator Robert Pinsky -on Tuesday, Oct. 13 in the Humanities Lounge. Pinsky is this term's Lamont Visiting Professor in the Englich Departrnent .. he will present a reading of his work at 8 p.m. Admission is free and the pablic is welcome. The 1987 American Tradition Film Series presents, \American Art ill the 60's\ on Tuesday, Oct. 13 from 12:10 to 1: 10 p.m. The film will be shown in the Concourse level auditorium at t:he New York State Museum and is part of an ongoing series. Skidmore Symposium Skidmore College in Saratoga . will open its Symposium on the American Theatre on Friday, Oct. 9 at 8 p.m. Keynote speaker Robert Brustein will begin the Symposium, which wUl deal with critical issues facing the American Theatre. On Satur- day, Oct. 10, four panel discussions will be held from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. The public is invited and admission is free. For additional information, please call Skidmore Theatre 584-5000, ext. 2347. Alr hands, Singers, Dancers, TL.Jmbters, Lip SyncJ PG~try REading, S1and up Comic~1 Anything E!ltertatning WHY NOTT??? l • Slaow Us.Whal You've. Got In lhe ••• 'fiRSt ANHII4: CAM· <Will fAliNI SHOW . ON HOY. 11N MEIURIAL CHAPEL / faculiy:& adminit:ptrration ,~ judgesUl ·, < ••••• ;.: ••• : ••••• PRIZES: $100.00 Cash~ 1st Prize 2 Tickets To .Proctors or --Movie titltts · For ¥our Whole; Act .n i'i~JH!>l'llial+Hf:''h\' ·rnr·•'t•l!l; I'\! \;ir\1~~~-.~~~;atlU r: . ~v-~

CONCORD18NSJS, October 8, 1987 Fage 17 At Pro·ctors • • • La Cage aux Folle By DARREN .BINDER Tbe curtains ppen.ed at Proctor's this past weekend to the national touring compoa11y's presentation of the silt-time Tony Award-win11ing mllBical, \La Cage Au Folles.\ A nightclub owner . appears on stage and welcomes the audien~e to his St. Tropez establishment where what .appears :real may simply 1Je an \illusion.\ \Open your eyes,\ he proclaims, ''You have arrived at 'La Cage Aux: Foiles'.\ The stage is s11ddenly filled with eight \w()men\ (si~C of whom are really men} mlavish cos.tumes energethcally singing, \We Are What We .Are''. Most people realized tbat some of these actresses were recilly actors, but it wa~ ali:nost im- . possible to speCifieally poi{lt out the ones in drag. All of the eight characters had l~gs that woUld make many Union women jealous; lf. ~Y oi these :'ac- tresses\ wo11nd ·llP at a fraternity party., they would certainly not leave unac· companied. The mesmerizing gender tr!lnsformation along with the dramatic-comic ,pl()t r.n bro.ught the relativ.ely con- • ..... servative audie~ce to a stan- :§ ding ovaticm. e The musical focuses Oil the 0... personai life CJf the nightclub o owner, Georges. (barry Kert) fi) and· his 2D-year relati<lnship ~ with the club's main Attraction, g a transvestite Jtnown as z~-Xa u (Harvey Evans}- Wben .9 Goerges' son, Jean-Mic]tel (a _g product of a brief affair) , an.. a. nounces wedding pho~ns,. he wants his father to bide his sexuality and entertain his fiancee's na·rrow·minded when Jean .. Michel reveals that . the father of his future bride intends to close ·d()wn the . parents: A conflict arises when Za•Za, who has basically raised Jean-Michel in the absence of a real mother, feels scorned by the yo1U1g man's insulting plan that he should leave before :his fiancee's parents ~rrive. The -plot becomes more delicate , flambouyant club when he is re- elected .for public office~ Jean- Michel ultimately learns he has made a mistake by C!lsting .off Za-Za when \she\ transforms ' ' the evening into a hilarious adventure in subtleties apd cast or La Cage aw< Folie mishaps. Aside from the outrageous costumes and crazy antics at the club. \Les Cage Aux · Folies,\ the sh()w's humor is its greatest asset. Through cl~ver one-\liners and· revealing facial expressions, the musical is ab~e to bypass any of the audience's initial apprehensiveness ln regard to the plot. For illstance, Za-Za drew a big laugh fr()m the crowd when ~'she\ .e::xbliiimed, \Our son's getting .married, where did we go wrongt\ rt is not easy to find fault ~ith ''La Cage Aux Folies.'' The show's music is lively, the acting superior, and the eostlimes certafuly unique, ~~--~------~----~--~-------------------------------------------------~-------------- By JIMMa«!LAUGHLIN WISH; YOU WEiBE HERE: Starring Emily Lloyd At tbe Spectrum Tb.eatre, Albany Rated \R\ Students of En~lish literature have been.led.to-;beliieve th!lt to grow ·up in .England is to ~ exposed to a wealth <>f living and experielfce. Given the volumes of pt\ose and poetry ·exported from tlte U.K. devoted to. Youth and Ennllce11ce, one would be inclined to label it as the ideal place tCl grow up. The film \Wish You Were Here'' however, smashes the idyll of English a!lolescence in a most irreverent war. ' 4 Wish· You · · Were llere teUs the st()ry of Lynda, a 16-year--olcl hellion who is bored to t¢ar.s With her life in . Presen:ts Emo Philips With Livingston Taylor Jim and Buddy at The :Movies an English seacoast town, during the early fifties. Por- trayed amazingly by Emily Lloyd, Lynda strives to find some kerne1 of 'living' in the nothingness that pervades her e~stence. Attempts are made by her father and. others to , coual·her rebelliousness, but she quickly br~hes them an aside 1Jy stating, \Up y{)ur bum,\ (she ge~s every ounce one could get out of the phrase). Finding no outlet for her hunger .pang~ for life, Lynda turns inward to s.exual preoc- cupation, and searches vain]..y for satisfaction, After a couple ~isastrous ex:periences with boys her own age~ she t111'11s to one of her father's sleazy friends. Lymla believes that the older man will deliver b.er from her stagnant state, but instead finds only more pain. Her existence as a female is painted as one of emptiness and unfilfillment. Yet, interestingly enough, the male lifestyle isn't portrayed as being much better. Both Lynda and the men· she meets, fumble in painfully embarassing ways, trying to extract romantic visions from the sexual realities of which they are uneducated. The love scenes in '~Wish Yo11 Were Here\ are a far cry fr()rn the · English romance thabne would read in literature 101. Rather, they depict botb Lynda and her mates as clumsy gropers,. battling against the stodgy traditions that make vain their tries to live life to its. fullest. FILM GRADE: A Friday, October 9th At 8:00pm Memorial Chapel Tickets available at the Student Center Box Office $4.00 ($3.00 for Students with I.D.) UA NEW KINO-OF . This Week's On Campus Movies AU. tlekets •r• $1 for tJnlon Students with ID. A II shows are at tile College Center., Auditorium. MOVIE: FASt BOlD. HARSH AND PRlMITIVE~' THE FA.TE Of\ TilE FUTURE LIES HIDDEN 11'1 THE P.\ST. -Richarcl Codiss,TINE SOME'\VHEP.E Otl EARTH., .1986. rl[;q ~ ·~>-~· .. <O, \'\~ ---~..!~'\'n\ • MV B!=AUTIF IlL lAUfo.JOflETIE .•. A nl!)hly entertaonong:movie from England 'tlt.at tells the story of Omar and Johnny, two. friends who try to make rt inbusines.st<lgether by revampin~ an· old. laundralta. Th'o iolm touct1oes m<~ny·social issues such as pr~djudice arld homo-sexuality, and does so on a light, hop. manner_ Tues. at 7, 9 and 11. STAfl TREK IV .. .In tho latest and best lo!m in the Stao Took series. !he-crew of lhe Enierpn~e re-unites to go back in time to 1986 in order to save the whales. The folm is not only great scdi, but also provides some .moments of gootJ comedy. FrL, Sat. & Sun. at 7, 9, and 11 Get the facts about AIDS. Send for your free copy of ''100 Questions and Answers About AIDS·\\ Write: N.Y.S Health Dept. Box 2,000 Albany, NY 1222Q '\ ki'*r~tdh:P'\':v·· .. '''1':1~; 4:t~a. f:36;· te:!th '12:50 ... - -· --- -· . --~

'1 ' CONCORDlENSIS, October 8, 1987 Page 17 At Proctors • 0 La Cage aux Folie By DARREN BINDER The curtains opened at Proctor's this past weekend to the national touring company's presentation of the six-time 'I'any Award-winning musical, \La Cage Aux Foiles.\ A nightclub owner appears on stage and welcomes the audience to his St. Tropez establishrnent where what appears real may simply be an \illusion.\ \Open your eyes,\ he proclaims, \You have arrived at 'La Cage Aux Foiles'.\ The stage is suddenly filled with eight \women\ (six of whom are really men) in lavish costumes energetically singing \W Ar ' e e What We Are\. Most people realized that some of these actresses were really actors, but it was ahnost im- possible to specifically point out the ones in drag. All of the eight characters had legs that would make many Union women jealous; if any of these \ac- By JIM MacLAUGHLIN WISH YOU WERE HERE Starring Emily Lloyd At the Spectrum Theatre, Albany Rated \R\ Students of English literature have been led to believe that to grow up in England is to be exposed to a wealth of living and experience. Given the volumes of prose and poetry exported from the U.K. devoted to Youth and Innocence, one would be inclined to label it as the ideal place to grow up. The film \Wish You Were Here\ however, smashes the idyll of English a~olescence in a most irreverent way. \Wish You Were Here tells the story of Lynda, a 16-year-old hellion who is bored to tears with her life in Presents Emo Philips With Livingston Taylor tresses, wound up at a fratemity party, they would certainly not leave unac- companied. The mesmerizing gender transformation along with the dramatic-cmnic plot broug)1t the relatively con- ·~ servative audience to a staa- ~ ding o-vation. e Th-e musical focuses on the a_ personal life of the nightclub '5 owner, Georges (Larry Kert) ~ and his 2()-year relationship ~ with the club's main Attraction, :=J a tran.svestite known as Za-Xa 8 (Harvey Evans). When 8 Goer'ges' son, Jean-Michel (a g product of a brief affair), an- a. nounees wedding plans, he wants bis father to hide his sexual•ity and entertain his fia11.e:e e' s narrow-min de a parents. A conflict arises when Za-Za, who has basically raised Jean-Michel in the absence of a real rn()ther, feels .scorned by the yollilg man's insulting plan that lle should leave before his fiancee's parents arrive. The plot becomes more delicate when Jean-Michel reveals that the father of his future bride intends to close down the flambouyant club when he is re- elected for public office. Jean- Michel ultimately learns he has made a mistake by casting off Za-Za, when \she\ transforms the evening into a hilarious adventure in subtleties and Jim and Buddy at The Movies an English seacoast town, durin.g the early fifties. Por- trayed amazingly by Emily Uoyd, LYJlda strives ta find some kernel of 'living' in the nothiilgness that pervades her existe!lce. Attempts are made by her father and others to conral her rebelliousness, but she quickly brushes them all aside by stating, \Up your bWil,\ (she gets every ounce one C()uld get out of the phrase). Finding no outlet f<>r her hU!lg tJ[' pangs for life, Lynda turns :inward to sexual preoc- cupation, and searches vainly for satisfaction. After a couple diselstrous experiences with boyrs her own age, she turns to one ()f her father's sleazy frien'<ls. Lynda believes that the older man will deliver her from her stagnant state, but instead finds only more pain. Her existence as a female is painted as one of emptiness and 1mfilfillment. Yet, interestingly enough, the male lifestyle isn't portrayed as being much better. Both Lynda and the men she meets, fumble in painfully embarassing ways, trying to extract romantic visions from the sexual realities of which they are uneducated. The love scenes in \Wish You Were Here\ are a far cry from the English romance that one would read in Literature 101. Rather, they depict both Lynda and her mates as clumsy gropers, battling against the stodgy traditions that make vain their tries to live life to its fullest. FILM GRADE: A Friday, October 9th At 8:00pm Memorial Chapel Tickets ava.Hable at the Student Center Box Office $4.00 ($3.00 for Students mth I.D .) \A NEW KIND OF MOVIE: FASl BOLD HARSH AND PRIMITIVE~' This Week's On Campus Movies All tickets are $1 for lJnlon Students with 10. All shows a~e 111 the College Cantor Auditorium. -Richard Corliss, TIME THE FATE OF THE FUTUI\E LIES HIDDEN IM THE PAST, SOMEWHERE ON EAR..TH ••• tCJB6. MY BEAUTIFULI.AUNDRETIE., .A nghly entertam1019 mov1a from England that tells the slory of Omar and Johnn)l, two In ends who try to make rt in busmess together by revam1>mg an·old laLJndrelle Th·e film touches many soc1alossues such.as pred1ud•ce and homosexuality, and does so •n a l1ght, h •P mannor Tues at 7, 9 and 11 STII.R 1REKIV .. In the latest and best him 1n the Star Trek S<!ries, tha.crn\11 ol. the Enlerprose re-unrtes Ia go back in time to t 98~ 1n order to save tha whales The f•lm •s not only groat sc1 f1, !:lui also provides some momants of good comedy Fr1, Sat. & Sun at 7, 9, and 1 L \ '\ The cast or La Cage aux Fone mishaps. Aside from the outrageous costwnes and crazy antics at the club. \Les Cage Aux Folies,\ the show's hwnor is its greatest asset. Through cl~ver one-liners and revealing facial expressions, the musical is able to bypass any of the audience's initial apprehensiveness in regard to the plot. For instance, Z<I-Za drew a b•g laugh from the crowd when \she\ exclaimed, \Our son's getting married, where did we go wrong?\ It is not easy to find fault with \La Cage Aux Fones.\ The show's music is lively, the acting superior, and the costumes certainly unique. .. _=:__,.;;;;;...' ~_ffO __ - - tr_: _.......I 'IIie cftoir wiJC 6e lioUing its Yl.nnua[ 2fameooming Concert on Saturtfay, Oct. lOtft tU 8:00pm in tfie 5l{emoria{Cfiapel. tflie wncett is open. to a[C so bring a f.rienc{ana lita.r some great music. Get the facts about AIDS. Send for your free copy of ''100 Questions and Answers About AIDS·'' Write: N.Y.S Health Dept. Box 2,000 Albany, NY 12220 · ····c·····-·.·-··-·~·~·-·r··· ·\ --·····s·· '\g·· · ·a··-· te· · s· .·. · ... :: <'\J: ··_·<~. ,c· ... · .... ·· ... ·... . . . \'' ., -. - ' ~ M II . c· . ·. .a.~·].;-~.~'t:····lnema ~;~)i%~i;'4f({~·-~IJ.i~!Jf>afi~i-1f' &~1\tlG,:;;<nt -~;~13trf·if~5; ~'0:::ts. '12:2:5 ;~,=-·~· ~~-:.~ .. :- .• :' ._, :::\ll%'::·.::~··<:~- .-._ ·' S···:etg.~!flllftf' \· \ · · \H5t>; 4:40t 7:20, 10:05, 12:20 1 :b~~ .3:45, 6:20, 9:15. 11 :35 7 Like Fathet\t Like· $on 1~0. 4:05, 6:40, 9:10, 11:30 a Surrender 9 Princess Bride 1 0 3 O'Clock High 11 Someone to Watch Over Me 12 Pick Up Artist -- 1:45, 4:35, 7:15, 9:55, 12:05 1:00, ;J:35, 6:50, 9:35, 11 :50 12:50, 3:50, 6:55, 9:25, 11 :40 1:15, 4:10. 7:35, 10:20, 12:30. 1 :15, 4:10, 7:35, 10:20, 12:30

-. Page ·1s CONCORDJENSIS, October 8, 1987 SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY Superconductivity Fact or Fiction? By ALAN DESALVIO I can't believe my own eyes any more. On the wall in the Physics Dept. someone (probably Dr. Maleki) has taped up an article out of one of those gag newspapers all about superconductivity, at 294 degrees Kelvin. Oh~ I said to myself- getting used to all these superconductivity breakthr- oughs nowadays, let's see, that's just 21 degrees Celsius, or room temperaturE. ROOM TEMPERATURE?! Goo~ thing it's just a gag paper • I look for the heading on the page • the Schenectady Gazette? · Know anything aoout elec- tricity? Sure, Benjy was doing his thing years ago, getting zapped by lightning, et ·cetera, but what about electric lights? Dynamos? Teltegraphs? Telephones? Lights\? Morse is credited around 183'1, :Bell1876, and Edison 1878, alth()ugh he was also importan:t with the first central power gtJneration plant in NYC, which was built in 1882. Everyone knew how to make dynamos. But did elec- tricity shock. civilizationi No. Everyone had gas ligbts, coal, wood, or oil fired rollers, and it took a long time fO>r all of the power lines to gQ up not to mention the telephone lines. It grsadually i.nlproved society a great deal, but it was not abrupt. By World War II most big cities and their submbs had extensive power and phone facilities. Electricity was important in WWI, as it allowed wireless telegraph, but it decided WWII, by enabling the Allies to _decipher all German and Japanese ... messages, through the use of teltlctronic computers. Radar wa~n 't quite . as im- portant, although the Battle' of Britain was piV()tal, and the British used< radar quite suc- cessfully while waging it. On the other hand, the U.S. had radar stations Oll Oahu in December 1941, and it didn't help us any. Then, in 1948, the transistor appeared on the scene, and civilization was 5hocked. The transistor· allowed integrated Circuits, which then led to electronie miniat\lfization on scales ofl{),OOO to 1, roomsized computers to desktop com- puters, which allowed widespread use of the com- puter, ,Jl.ang, instant Infor- mation A~e. The eq11ation for electric power combined with Ohm's Law governs all of the above: P = R * 1 \'Z , which can be in- terpreted to say that the power lost to .lleat from drawing· curre11t I across resistance R is proportiollal to both Rand I \· 2. This obvio11sly leads to P = 0 when 1l. = O, so you don't get any heat loss. when the resistance is zero. Certainly this new material needs t<J be isolated, and have it's current density capacity deterrnin ed, but the odds are, with the level of people that are now working on super- conductivity, all of these things will be accomplished in the near future. Things that previously existed <Jnly in the imagination may now . be possible. Room temperatuxe superconductivity has always been in the realm of Science fiction, f()r God's sake! The tra!lsistor revolution· can't hold a candle to what will happen if this works out. Entire computers contained in keyboards .. Fingernail watches. Electric cars. Incredibly fast trains in evacuated tunnels. Billions saved in power tran~ smission costs, not to mention power costs. Incredibly sen- sitive electronic sensors of all sorts. Dime a dozen particle accelators. Dogs and cats, living together. · Take lots of pictures, because in twenty-five years you won't recognize technology, or society. It's only been 37 since the transistor. ' Students Physics Research at Unio.n - Something Very Special ByJORGSCHALDACH What is so special about students' physics research at Union? Well, if yuu are from G''rmany (as I am), the simple fa<.\ that there is 11ndergraduate phy~ics researcl! is very remHkable. At German univet •dties, which are much larger than Union, un- dergradnate students have just their scheduled classes and labs but are not given the chance to do some ii1dividllal research. With this in mind I can really appreciate my opp<Jrtunity to get my hands on some actual physics. I owe tlris chance to Laszlo Baksay who, together with Rich Magahiz, runs the High Energy Group at .Union's physics departrneRt. They support the idea of un- dergraduate research very much, and I am really grateful . to them for the benefit I have gotten-out of my work in their group during the spring and summer this year. The Natiomal Science High. Elnergy deals with the particles the world is made of and th.e f<Jrces between them, and a very important task of experimental particle physics is the development and testing of new ltinds of particle detectors for a lai.\ge variety\ of different purposes. I myself wrote some software t() analyze data from a \High Pressure Time Projection Chamber\ and worked 011 the electronics for a \Double Sense Wire With Curr'ent Division Drift Charnbe:r\. Thatr· sounds pretty impressive and I must say that indeed, thte equipment available at U11ioa is absolutely fantastic· compaied ·to a beginning student's possibilities at a German wliv~rsity. I also spent two exciting weekends at th.e Brook:haven National LaboratcL\y on Long Island, whei.\e Union is involved in an experiment . to find · out somethillg about the neutrino restrnass, which is a fairly interesting subject of con- temporary physics. As a matter of fact, many of our projects are collaborations with other in- stitutions, what certainly makes them even more in- teresting. I learned. a lot about particle physics and have gained an rnteresting insight into today' s experimental physics, so my time here was definitely very valuable for my education. But on the other hand, there was also a very pleasant relation- ship among students and professors in our group, which was not just limited to ·our research projects, but resulted in a lot of common activities, which had nothing to do . with physics. Thus, my physics research at Union and ever- thing that is related to it have been one of the best things I have ever done, and I hope that many other people esp~cially from foreign countries, get the chance to make the same great experience. ... Foundation will award three graduate fellowsl1ips and t~ee minority graduate fellows~ps in the science and engineermg ~. fields .for the 1988-89 academic y(far. Accepted fellows Will receive a $12,300 stipend for a twelve :_ month tenure~ Application ·. deadli,ntf . 91 N'avemJ»er 13~ 1987~ ~pplications ar1 available from: The Fellowship Office, National Ri.searcl\, Coundl 1 2101 Cons stitutlon Ave., Wasll~gton, DC 20411. ASK EXPERTS ON AIDS TOLL-FREE HOTLINE 1-800·433-AIDS Bock to'school this year Is dramdtically accurate Information. not he<l~oy or confusion. . . . ,One of the most authoritative sources avalloble Is a toll-free na:ilonal hotl!ne- 1-800-433-AIDS - manned by volunteers ·at St. Clore 1 s Hospital and Health Center In New York City. St. Clare's has beten pioneering car. e a. pel counselling of AID. S patients since }985 ~ell It op&hed New York State's first and onlY officially designated AIDS center.the.SpeJiman·Centerfor HIV Related Diseases. · ~ The Ho~ine, whiCh opel\':lfes weekdays form 9 a.m. to 8 ·p.m., and Sa1urdays, to .tl p.m. (all times are Eosfem Standard. or DoyllghtJime), offers expert adVIce on everything from drugs and AIDS to testing. • or.d from emotional support and syrnptos to sexual practices- all on or. anonymous basis. Ignorance about AIDS can be fatal. Stience MaJors I-nterested in Medicill Research? C.ontact SUNY-Health SclenceCemter at Syracuse College of Graduate Studies 750 t;ast Adams Street Syracuse, NY 13210 (also see page 15} Jorg Prof:ile • • Scha·l·d-ac;h By PAUL WOODDELL Jorg Schaldach · is leavi11g tonight on a long awaited return trip · to his home town of so close to his departure .. Jorg participated in activities · here tb~ he rarely got a chance to do in Germany .. These include ncquetball, squash, volleyball, a11d swimming, .Als(), during the . Bochum, an ind~strial towrf\ in West Germany. Jorg is an exchange student who has been at Union for six months. This exchange was conQ.ucted bet- ween his former high school in Bochum and Union College. He is a physics ahd math major entering . his second year of , sl,)ring when he stayed with a family in Nisky1llla, he biked to campus every day. He t~lls me he a:lso enjoys amateur a:;tronomy. college. ' One rea.Son he came to Union was the opportunity tp do real research. · The college prides itself upon this - even :freshmen can get involved. Jorg .points to the experiment behind him and . says, \This is not possible in Germany.\ He tells me there.is really no chance for him to do· research back home until he enters graduate school. , · The project Jorg is working on is a· particle detector in the physics 'department. n.e. project has been · dormant fGr · over two years. But, due to Jorg's undivjded attention, (I say that because I never see him doing anything else) the detector . began to register particles for the first time jl!St last week. It is a shame. it came · When I· asked him abottt his fe:elings toward Amei.\ican c()lleges, he told me was un- ·familiar with the liberal lear- Jiillg program. · In Gerrn~ny, lUJguage, social- studies, etc., a~re taught much ffi()re. tlloroughly in high school. \11l.erefore tl;lere is no need for liberal learning in \university\ ~d all one's time can be devoted tQ his or her major. One plus he sees in Union Ccllege is the amazingly averse subjects offered qnd 4!bances for research grants. lf:is advice to me is to '\take .everything that is offered to :yo a.\ Jorg will arrive home Friday mternoon and he will register fo--:r 1miversity on Monday along \With thirty th()usand other ~udents. \Then he says, ''the t01ugh stuff begins.\ Dinosaur Hunters Discuss Prey October 11 - ''Dinosaurs, Crocodiles, Thecodonts and the Origins- of Birds.\ Dr. Samuel F. Tarsitano, Millersville University, discusses dinosaur adaptations and examines theories of evolution and/ ex- tinction as evidenced by anatomical and morphological developments. · The program is sponsored by the New York State Museum AssoCiates, the Museum's membership organization. Museum Members receive fr.ee tickets to Dinosaurs Alive! And other benefits. To find out h()W to become a member, call518- 474-5801. Din,osaurs Alive!· features six: life-like, moving, roaring dinosaurs that stand 11p to 15 feet high and ao feet long. . Visitors will walk among a long- Ii>ecked Brontosaurus, a baby Rront()saurus, a plate-backed Sieg()saurus, a duck-billed C!orythosaurus, an armored 'rriceratops, and a fierce meat- eating Tyrannosaurus Re~ that IO()Ve their heads, swish their . taUs, roar and hiss, plus a llon- a:nimated flyi.I)g pteranodon. The exhibit is open from A.uguSt 15 throusb December 28. Museum hours are daily 10 a.m. t1> 5- p.m. with special eve11ing !lours on Wednesdays and J.ii'ridays tintil 8 p.m. t)l:rough October so~· .Admission ls$3 per 11dult and $2 per child. , .. SPS CAPITAL DISTRICT MEETING' IN CQt:JJUNCI!ON WITH AAPT MEETING Where: Unioll College Science antd Engineering .Building Date: Oct. 17 _ Scheaule of SPS Events,: 9:00 Welcome: Laszlo BaJ\say, Union College 9:20-10:40 Studenttalks (15c20 minutes each) tO :40-11 :05 Coffee 11 :1 0 Talk, Ralph Alpher. Union College 11 :55-1:15 Lunch 1:20-2:20 Student Talks 2:20·2:40 Coffee 2:40·3:20 1Student Talks 3:20-4:00 Tours of Dept./Coff~e Any students wishing to give 1alks Clt presentations should get in touch with Laszlo Baksay 370-6053-or witli !Earth Bracy 372•8948 in evenings. Please respond by Oct. 1st. All stuclents welcome. Talks will be in.formal with a question .and answer period foil .owing. Weekend This past Friday, tbe SPS showed the movie, \Creation of the Universe\ to a captivated audience in Steinmetz 106. The crowd was treated to a surprise when they found that Ralph Alpller, reno:wned physicist, made a special appearance at · ·: the close of this fihn. For those of you who aren't familiar With Ralph Alpher, he is - a collaborator in the creation of the '~Big Bang\ theory and is now a member of the Union College physics department. :Warm-up? It is still suspect whether it was the fascinating develop- ment and discussion of the creation of the universe or tlie nature of the ~'refresbments\ served which provided . the jovial and relaxed. atmosphere of the gather~g. Members of the audience discussed_ the movie afterwards but the most controversial and heated debate was unquestionably . over the · unexpected. leftovers from the pre-movie cocktails.

CONCORDIENSJS, October 8, 1987 , See Captain Mokan at the College Genter on October 15 & 16 from 10 am to 3 pm. or call (518) 438\'6963 1-800-342-2403 · COM·PANIES * Aetna ./Allstate lnst~r'ance AT & T Bell labs CIA ·· · co'nununity Workshop Con Edison * Connecticut Bank (not engineering) , .ConUnental . Telephone Co. * European American Bank * FBI * Footlocker General Dynamics IBM CAREER FESTIVAL PARTICIPANTS O.ctober 14, 1987; 12:00-5:30pm Prudential Insurance Resl.de·ntial Opportunities * Russ Berrie $ & K Famous. Brands Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. * M~tropofitan P-roperty & liability Singer Company Smith Barney Harris Upham * U.S. Air Force * N.Y. Telep.h()lle ~ *~ U.S. Army U.S. Army Corp of Engineer ~ .. INVESTIGATE CAREER OpTIONS &. OPPORTUNITIES CLARIFY YOUR CAREER GOALS FIND ~UT WHAT COURSES TO TAKE DISCOVER WHAT JOBS ARE AVAILABLE BROri'SE THROUGH EXHIBITS OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MEET REPRESENTATIVES OF NATIONAL AND LOCAL BUSINES.S, INDUSTRY AND GOVERNMENT Wednesday, October 14 12=00- s:so Union College Field House J'!J, Sl1JilEIIrS, FRESIM;N TIIROUGH GRAruATES, ARE l'oB.OO'E! .FOR INFDRMATION: UNION CDLLEGE CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER, 370-6176 GRADUATE SCHOOLS Delaware Law School Georgetow11 Law School Hofstra Law School Maxwell ~chao~. of , Pu bli'c Affairs, Syrt~cuse Universi~y .. ·Northeastern University Graduate School of Business Admin istr.ations Syracuse Univ.ersity, MBA Program Thayer School of Engineering, Dartmouth Union College, Graduate· Management Program University of 'Rochester, . Medical School & Co. Inc. CAREER' REPRESENTATIVES Broadcasting Child and Fam.ily Counseling Government Investments Patient Relations Positions with · the State N.V.S. Dept. o,f Transportation N.V.S. Electrtc and Gas Naval Underwater sys1ems Nestle Foods * u.s. Army R~&serve Officer Training Corp * U.S. Coast Guard Speech Pathology Social Work Norstar . Northeast S-avings * Nort.hwester11 Mutual life * Peace corp Portsmouth Navar Shipyard Procter & G.ambJe * U.S.· Marin'e Corp Window Technologies * INTERNSHIP REPRESENTATIVES Institute for D.isease Prevention In the Workplace S & K Famous Brands State Assembly Intern Program 81 WGY, 99 WGFM * Companies interested in students fro~ a variety of majors. The Management and Staff of the DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT are pleased to announce the return of . ' . DUTCHMAN'S Beginning Saturday, October 11th · and the following weeks · Make your reservations at Dutch· Hollow Restaurant cashier now for c~oice seats Meal card punch or $11.00 cash NIGHT Please indicate your preference for . DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT in the future Mon Tue Wed Thur Frl Sat Sun DDODDDD. · and return this ad to DHR cashier

' .. SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS 1, 1988. For more information and applications contact: Jim - Bell, National Scholarship Awards Chair, 5300 Forge Rd., ----------.J Whitemarsh, MD 21162. Three-year graduate · The American Assembly of fellowships in science and Collegiate Schools of Business is engineering fields offered by a d m 1 n i 8 t e r in g six: t e en the National Science Foun- fellowships under the National dation. Open to ;persons at or Doctoral Fellowship Program near the beginning of their in Business .and Management. graduate study in science or This is in an effort to alleviate engineering. Deadline for ap- the critical shortage of doc- plication Nov. 13, 1987. NSF · torally qualified faculty at Graduate Fellowship stipend to . collegiate schools of business. be $12,300 for 1988-89. Further St d info and application' write u ents from disciplines other Fellowship Office, National than business and management R are urged to apply. Application esearch Council,. 2101 Con- deadline is January 4, 1988. For stitution Avenue, Washirigton, more information, check the D.C. 20418. Financial Aid bulletin board in Becker Hall or stop in at the The New Jersey Department of Higher Education annoWlces · the competition for 1988~89 · Garden State Graduate Fellowships. Recipients are awarded $6,000 annually and the grants are renewable up to four years. Recipients must be New Jersey residents and must attend a New Jersey graduate school on a full~time basis in a course of study other than a professional degree program. Application deadline is March 1, 1988. For applications contact the Financial Aid Office. Financial Aid Office. The Ferd Foundation an- noWlces its annual competition for doctoral and postdoctoral fellowships for minorities. There will be 40 predoctoral fellowships and 10 dissertation fellowships awarded to qualified ·minority candidates · for 1988-89. Awards will be made for study in research· based doctoral programs in the behavioral and social sciences, ·humanities, engineering m~thematics, physicai sctences, and biological sciences. Application deadline is November 13, 1987. For more information arid applications con~act: The Fellowship Office, National Research CoWlcil, 2101 Constitution Ave., Washington, ZONT A International an- nounces its 1988-89 Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awards competition for grants of $6,000 to outstanding women students for graduate study in aerospace-related· science or engineering. Application in- . formation is .. available at the Financial Aid Office. Deadline for the 1988 .. 89 award _ ap- plication is December 31, 1987. The New York State Education Department an- nounces thirty new Herbert H. Lehman Graduate Fellowships for study in the Social Sciences . and · public and international affairs fields. The stipend for four full years totals $19,000 with some institutions providing supplemental income. For the 1988-89 award year, candidates must be legal residents of New · York State, receive a bachelor's · degree no later than September, 1988, and not have entered graduate study before the 1988 swnmer term. For more in· formation and applications contact: Higher and Professional Education Testing Bureau, Cultural Education Center, Albany, NY 12230. The Department of the Navy announces a new program entitled the Bachelor · Degree Commissioning Program (BDCP). This program is open to students starting their jWlior year. Its purpose is to provide minority students with financial assistance while working towards a bachelor's degree. There is a service commitment of four ·years for most programs. For more in· formation call: Lt. Rich Patsy at 518) 472-4425 or 472-4426. This program is not an ROTC program and is for the current academic year. The Society for the Advan· cement of Material and Process Engineering announces its annual scholarship competition. Nineteen $1,000 scholarships will be awarded to college students pursuing courses leading to a career in Material and Process Engineering. Primarily the awards are for technical accomplishment ·rather than financial need. Applications must be post- marked no later than Fe~ruary DC 20418. (202) 334-2872. The International Student Scholarship Competition is a nationwide essay competition for international students studying in the U.S. First prize is $1,500 to be used -for academic or professional advancement. Deadline for the competition is December 1; 1987. Inter- national students interested in entering must submit an essay of no more than 1,500 words on the topic- \~ajor changes in the world economic situation have in- fluenced America's role in international commerce. What effect do you think these changes will have on in- ternational education?'' Scholarship competition is open to all full-time foreign students enrolled in a prescribed degree- or cer- , tificate-grant~g program at an ~~J}lllmll~ %l1V% ~~ accredited college. their clients daily programs and Catholic faculty, . staff, tb.eir activities to meet their daily . · fam~lies and students at Union. care and· educational . Ple!lsecall Religious Progr-ams requirements. · Office 37~087 and give m;une For additional inforlllation rules arid entry forms. write; Essay Competition Coor~ dinator; DSD Communications Ltd.; . 10805 Parkridg~ Boulevar-d, Suite 240; Reston, VA 22091. · and nUfnber attending .or\ send. . . National WRdlife Federation. · back slip that you received in · located in Washington, I);C. · is · · the m:ail. New York S_tate St;}nate Interu~ips: Open to jWliOrs and sen1ors of any rnajor who have a strong interest in state gover.nrnent and the legislative process. Full-time January- May with academic credit. Application deadline: October 21st. . . Institute for Disease · Prevemti01n in tbe Workplace is a nonprCJfit occupational health consul.tilrg firm working out of Blban.y. Internships are available in the follow-ing areas-: occupational health (r.e~ear-c~ position), ad~ mmtstrahon, marketing-rna· nagement and legislation. Sc~ e:nectady Municipal Housmg Authority, providing apartments to over 1 000 families, is offering sev~ral ~t,udents the opportunity to mtem at the executive office as a tenant relations intern. Duties include: researching; ·writing and !)·roducing monthly newsl.etter as well as producing an ft~dio visual program. In addition, the' student will be exposed to human service referrals. Staie Assembly Intern Program is looking for students to work.in state government' and get involved with the legislative process._ ~is credit bearing mt~rnslllp 1s «?Pen to juniors, semors and graduate students of all majors. Application deadline: October 23rd. The Department of State and its constituent Bureaus in ~aslling:ton,. D.C. are offering mtemsh1ps m foreign affairs whicll include conducting researcll, preparing reports analyzing international law: App lic:ation deadline: November 1st. The Oswald D. Heck Developmental Center, a part of the New York State Office· of Menta1 Retardation and · Devel~pmental Disabilities, is a 24 hour intensive care facility for aJ!pl'()ximately 360 mentally retarded developmentally disabled clients. A variety of inter11ships are offered this fall to assist staff in providing to offering ~udents, interested in · · · environmental issues, in- ternships for the winter and sum~er terms. Application Newman Ovel'liight Retreat- . O~ober 23. and 24 from 5 p.m. Fr1day until 5 p.m. Saturday at 1630 Nott Street. Theme : . Relationships - God, myself, others. Donation of $5 whtin you . register with Sr. Joan. deadlille: October 30. · Governor's Office has in- ternship openings with responsibilities in three major a.reas: comm unieations, re.search and constituent ser~ vices. JlUliors !ind seniors are encouraged to apply. · .CLUB NEWS Sign up now for the .. Moun~ tebanks Talent Show! Gospel C~oir rehearsal every Wednesday 8.:30 • 10 Arts 215. ·Newm;;.m Club-,-Monday? October 12 in. Milano Lounge at 7 p.m. Father Edward Cant~ well, cormer Chaplain at Union 1959-1964 and presently Chaplain at Hudson Correc~ tional Facility and Pius XII · Youth & Family Services .vill ·speak to the Newman Club. All , are welcome to come and listen and ask questions about Father's five years at Union 'Or his last twenty-one in prison ministry. Father Cantwell has also been ·involved with the Christian Family Movement for the last thirty years. Buffet Supper-Sunday, October 18 from 5-7 p.m. at.St. John the Evangelist Rectory there will be a buffet supper for Oxfam Organizational Meeting: Planning meeting for annual Oxfam Fast for a World \Harvest will be· held Tuesday, Octob~r 13 at 2:30 in the Helig,ious Programs Office Lounge, CC404. The Fast Day this year wHI be November 19. I \'OU~ll LIKE /0 f,\MPt-MSIZG: THA1' THE VIEWS f~PRE3'ifD - - !! E l ·• ,1 . I I

'CONCORDIENSIS, October 8, 1987 PERSONALS We can no l()nger aeoopt pasonal THE MAINE A. TTRACTION,- Coming soor• to a party near you. Ken, Brad. Kevin~tnanks so much for eo:ming ~ I love you. •CYN--BAJ) Hope you !lad a WonderfUl birthday. We11dy- your paper is due. R. Happy Birthday Derek, Have a good two-one·. LoryS. Thanks for taking care of the fish. Kappa Sigma SDT Alwnnae- \Don't ever change!\ We love ya- Welcome back. -,The House and Classified ads 1l1tless written on Concordie:nsi:s forms. · • Thesefo~ are available at the College Center information booth. BuckE)y andJean., Well, I kept my promise - I wasn't initiated without my' ffi()ID present But, l Killer~ gu4)ss you guys were thinking ef A letter is in th·e mail. The me all along;. Sorry about the • . campus is too QUIE.T with<Jut hassle!. Love.thenot so etern~] ya. .pledge - ., Delta Gamma Sister&, I ap- ~you· ._ _______ llllllil _ _. . preciate yi:mr\ early aroUsal f~r · · my initiation. and thank an of Schecky~I've belln watching you. Lets get togeth~,::- and dean erasures. I think I'm in love - Shelly Jen, You have given so much of . yourself to me, ;~nd have the · rare ability to alwa)'s make ~e · .feel special! You\ll never know • j11st how much yolli presence at initiation meant! 1 love you! Your daughter you for takirlg tlle time to ·make the last P<U'l of my .pledging special. I am proud to c()uny niyself among you! Love, Kristen· E:lappy Birtho~r Ed w~! ! Nice guys finish first with me . Quote of the week: \ ... a senillr\ yout thoughts jaundiped by reality.\ .Craig Summers '89 FLOOR CLEANER WANTED . . STU:DENT POSITlO·N Pff 4 DAYS PER WEEK $4.0:0/HR APPLY AT THE RATHSKELLAR - Tweedledunham Can Katie Hamilton continue her reign as the M&M Queen? Come to Carnegie Friday at 12:40 to .find out. 1051-Let'Sparty! )Thepursuit is on! Nance- How's the weather? Any worse than Doidsville? MAO Marjorie Hoffer for class clown 1988! To mY-, friends and ltidnappers- Thanks for the surprise last Thursday night. Il()ve you all! -Judy, Yudi, or whatever you call me. Gutters - an appropriate name for a backwoods ooy! No more little Pi Alpha ... Congratulations Xx:isten ! Jean, Shelly & Coil, Now where did you say we CG!!Jd get that wig.? Good luck Best of · the Best candidates! Still time to vote.· 11-2 today and Fr'iday outside West and Carnegie. -The sisters of Delta Gamma Wendy - You're beautiful & deserve a boyfriend. ' If you kept the gum in y()ur mouth you might find a guy. ~ona ~· Thanx for the DIG's. Emily - I beUeve that you are one of the best dressed people of Union ~liege. GD- Good luck on the GRE:'s; you're not illiterate if you can read this. - Becky - I hate Bananas. Marj · __ I don't like Bananas · either. ~Beck Concordy mourns the loss of international features. Bizarre weekend, eh, 2nd floor Richmond? Never let me play Mexican at Hickock again Beck Jan -Why area't you in a sorority? I hope your suit is ok. · DA - That's a big TD for you_ Kristen- Now you're my eternal sister -I'm ready for that ... I think?! Congrats! Love, Donna This beats the Fernwood, 3 days instead of 3 bourslfs I love you baby ... y tus piernas . calientes. Happy anniversary. I Potter, when are you going to . get Molson Golden? -PQ · PH2- You gotta get snowed ill -you guys are the NADS! -Piels Woman WENDY ENDRESS BROKE the S & E. elevator Tues! DLyn- You mean it's not unlimited complimentary? But I thought you paid for it. Today, Union College; tomorrow, Wall Street. · Love you.M ' BLOOM COUNTY Berke Breathed Ofi,,~MBCHfif-F Of1H6 t3rJRN- fl&llfN MEMUR5 Of MEAflOW SOCr6rY- IP UK~ YOO TlJ I<NO()J 1HAT P6\6PITC Of)!( . efllfC.I~fl. &eHflVIOK, 70 11.5 YOU'a !U.VIAY8 13€ ... 1/f.l •• , '\ 11 ' ''ft/IYIJOY\? I 1HOIJ&IfT YOVWa<.~ f30t<.N f/6fUN, 10(), \ I'M AMAZef/ ... I ~------------~ .. Ori!<..Jrflb(JJN- lUSfJHb lNFIPtL- Wifo-~:; 6t»JA ·6111& 6UKN. fj(JNN/! . - ·. \... '' J~if6/Cfll:lf1HN NtJ[Jtw:· \\P$1CtWOI4GN t/N0Ke5$ll,.7 ''1H6\ &!R/..5 Of NASA':. \ WHAT COVtfJ ffJ5SfP(.Y CONVItiC6 IW 01/lff?WI(fe Klll70NIIt. WOM!/N 1?7 P!Jfi.AY HEI?. Plt/V!t~{i 1fJ 1Ht 11/IU/~5 OF PIMPlY FACEP CO/./:£&& IJOY8 N'IIO - REAO 71115 577/ff '?' . ' ,. OOR. GOO!? fRI£NP. I ~ ''H£F ///MIN& A FC.fl/116 THROWER ATHEK PARciiT8' HEflf?f? \.. . Of/ OR 0/-1. \ NO, r IJNf}tR&TfJNtJ FRI%Wftf_. 18/NVOL.Vtll. I Page 21. Just think something we wanted . since spring tenn freshlllan year. I can't tell you how psyched I am. Here's tQ MM& MM - Many more marvelous ·. memories. You are the beans! ' With· Delta love from your B.F.A.A.F. Risa ~ Happy Birthday ~ · Here's to a great year, a night of • doing some serious work and the best time spring term in Washington, D.C. Love, Stef · Judy, · Can I help it if the bookstore decides· to move on your bir- thday? HAPPY BELATED! Love, Me Don't forget to vote Best-of- the-Best. This week, 11-2 at Carnegie & West College, to benefit sight conservation and aid to the blind. Happy birthday Amy B. AND . Christin C. ! Beck & Crew, The dining room looks terrific! Couldn't have done it withoutyou. Angel (AKA IVY) A- Next time bring an extra . pair of underwear - or at least a . needle and thread for quick repairs .. In Pursuit of Plaid ... Ready Union College? Dem- thialyn' s back! Kitty gt·aduated. O.K. Ernmy, Here is your personal! Short and sweet! I love yoU! Love, Wendy Cynbad the warrior- Happy late B-day! Looking forward to December! Love, Wendy \Lilly-put\: How's Stanley? Miss you. Call, o~K.? Ex- No. 4th Floormate. CLASSIFIEDS Year..,round job: College students to work weekends for Mullen Moving & Storage business. Call Albany 48HIBOIJ or Schenectady 362-1524 - ask for Mike Nolan, Jack or Marty Milllen. Need babysitter for 2 children 4 mo. old and 3% yr. old. Rexford location. MotJ. af- ternoons - 1:30-5 p.m. For further info. please contact 371- 8352. Kern Cleaners - 1111 Union St. M-F 7:00-9:00 am M-F 3:00-6:00 pm Sat. also - Counter clothing check-in. $4.00-hr. Contact manager any time M-F days. Need sitter approx. 15 hrs. a week. Niskayuna area Rt. 146. 3 children ages 3 to 9. Please contact 382-1660. Will provide transportation if needed. \' The Film Committee presents: STAR TREK IV: The Voyage Home-10-9, 10-10, 10-11 at 7 pm, 9 pm; 11 pm. MY Beautiful Laundrette - 10- 13 at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm in the College Center Auditorium. Tickets are $1. .....

CONCORDIENSISJ Oc.tober 8, 1987 I ' • : ESIPA at the EGG presmt' A V E R Y .S P E C I A L S T A G E D R E A 0 I 1\: (1. MBA COLLOQU.IUM FALL 19.87 Bailey Hall,-Room.3l2 . ··Thursdays, 3:45 ·p.m. • . . .· . . . \A h1·C of 'lm and che Wllc·h oJ I on:\ hanJ. Thuc i' ali l u\k. ac the lu.1t.\ · • ~· fll!Jrln -- a r o m a n c t' October 29, 30, 31 SPM TilktJb: $4 StudtJnt $5 Adult Box OffictJ: (518) 443·5111 • October 1 October 8 October 15 Regional Banksfl\?loney Cente'r Danks-A Competition!' . Robert A. McCormick President Schenectady Trust Company ''Starting a· Health. Maintem!nce Organization\ Gerald A. Peclinotti Vice President Lawrence Health Care Administrative Services, Inc. \Corn:ponents of Manufacturing Competitiveness'! MYRL\' ... Tht: mv~tilal tln1L'-.. uf King Arthur\ <HKil'nt Bnt<llll Lome lll hk \\'lt h 'Pl'<..la 1 - foL u:- ua Arthur':-. JtJvnteJ \X'i:arJ· ;mJ mt:n· tm, MERLIN ... a \'erv Sptxial Staged Reading prL'\l'lllL'J witl1uut ~.cenery, anJ iullu\\'\.'J hy an audil'Jll'l' Ji,(l:l~~inn \\'it h the phlywright, Jirt:L'tor anJ l<l~t. October22 James Hennanson · Vice President of Ma11ufact~ng Zero Corporation \Financing NYS Economic Develo,pment and Small Businesses\ Robert W. Lazar President and Chief Ex,ecutiv:e Officer New York Business Development Corporation Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts Patricia B. Snyder, P~oducing Director WORRIED ABOUT October29 \Issues in Hospital J\.dministrati<>o 1 ' William Schirmer President artd ChiefExecQ.tive Officer . Ellis Hospital AIDS? Thtn get in on the ground tloor in our undergraduate officer •Juniors earn more than $1900 during on.e ten-'week For referra I or assistance, call the N.Y.S. Health Department's AIDS Hotline 1-800-462-1884 TOLL FREE AND CONFIDENTIAL We mean business. Columbia Uni\·ersity's location in New York City makes it the ideal place for graduate study in busi- ness. A representative from Columbia Business School will v .I sit your campus to speak with stu- dents from all majors who are interested in the M.B.A. and Ph.n pro- grams in Business as well as joint degrees with Law, International Affairs, Public Health and other disciplines. ·If a graduate degree in Business is part of your future, start plan- ning for it now by talking with our representative. Contact your undergradu- ate placement office for further details. Columbia Business School 4- commissioning program. You could start planning on a career summer session like the men in this .ad have. And also have some great • Youcan take free civilian fbiDglessons advantages like: • You're commiSsioned upon graduation • Earning $100 a month during the school year Ifyou'relooking to move up !Juiddy, look into the Marine Corps • As a freshman or sophomore, ...------------:-------....,......., un.dergraduate officer commission- you couldmmpleteyour basic train- lfiiJn,.t· . *.n . .. ·m· .tn.T.Q. . mgprogram. You could ingduringt\vosix-weeksummer ,.,~ IV Ul'., startoffmakingmore sessionsandearnmorethan $1100 • ,.I.,\' ~ than $17;000ayear. during each session up IJillCAiYf' W!nloo/;ingJiraltwfJJOt/IIJen. · See Captain Mik~ri at the College Center or 15th and 16th of October From ·1 0 am to 3 pm or call (518) 438-6963 · 1-800·342-2408r- ' ! 1' - l a ~ c n c b a p p SJ a a tl p be r' s A b ft s ft b r1 C! w Sl c II Sl d• v: \ d Sl lE fl ~ b t' 0 s j' s r

Page 22 CONCORDJENSIS, October 8, 191)7 . J ,. \ '• '• :' ' • 1, ,_' ' ·, r , ' ' ' ' \ , ' • , • •· ': ,.:, ' \ \ ~ ' \ • < ~ ' ' ~ ESIPA at the EC1C i trrc.x'Ttt< A \' E R Y S P E C I t\ L ::; T A C E D R E A D l :-\ ( i MBA COLLOQUIUM FALL 1987 Bailey Hall, Room-312_ · Thursdays, 3:45 ·p.m . • . . . . . '\.-\ I•If uf 'tnt ,ut./ the t<>tkh <>)l1n ,.·, h,mtl. Th,a '' c!li I ,1,1-, ur rhc {,L,t .. · .fll!Jrln • . t1 r o n1 ll n t t' October 29, 30, 31 8PM Tit J...d~: $4 SruJmt $5 AJu!t & l:\ l )ffill': (518) 443-5111 October 1 October 8 October 15 Regional Banks/Money Center Banks-A Com pt!Ution\ Robert A. McCormick President Schenectady Trust Company \Starting a Health Maintenance Organization\ Gerald A_ Pedinotti Vice President Lawrence Health Care Administrative Services, Inc. \ 1l'HL.\\ . Thv Ill\'\ lie .d tll1ll'' \I l-.:1t1g Arthur\ dlhicrH Hnt.Htl c <>niL· 1<1 ltfe, \lith ~J'L'ctal · f,,,u, t>n Arthur\ JL'vt>H·cl \\'t:arJ·;tnJ lllL'II· tur, ~1ERU:--.: .... l \'l'rv Spl'l tal St <If.::cJ RL'aJmg pTL'\L'Ilt L'J '' 11 h\w t '<L'l1i.T\, .l!Jc! ln!\,,,, l'J h1 <Ill October22 \Comp()nents of Manufacturing Competitivenes!;\ James Hermanson Vice President of Manufacturing Zero Corporation \Financing NYS Economic Development and SooaU Businesses\ Robert W. Lazar auJi~IILl' cl•i>c u'\ltH\ wtth t hl' President and Chief Executive Officer pbnrr.ght, dtrn t\r and 'a't. New York Business Development Corporation Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts Patricia B. Snyder, Producing Director WORRIED ABOUT AIDS? For referral or assistance, call the N.Y.S. Health Department's AIDS Hotline 1·800-462-1884 TOLL FREE AND CONFIDENTIAL We mean business. Columbia Univer::;ity's location in New York City makes it the ideal place for graduate study in busi- ness. A representative from Columbia Business School will v~oit your campus to speak with stu- dents from all majors who are interested in the M.B.A. and Ph. D. pro- grams in Business as well as joint degrees with Law, International Affairs, Public Health and other disciplines. ·If a graduate degree in Business is part of your future, start plan- ning for it now by talking with our representative. Contact yow- undergradu- ate placement office for further details. Columbia Business School 4- October29 \Issues in Hospital Administration\ William Schirmer President and Chief Executive Officer Ellis Hospital Tht. get in on the ground floor in our undergraduate officer • Juniors earn more than $1900 during one ten-\Weel< commissioning program. You could start planning on a career summer session like the men in this ad have. And also have some great B You can take free civilian flying lessons advantages like: • You're commissioned upon graduation B Earning $100 a month during the school year If you're looking to move up quickly, look into the Marine Corps • As a freshman or sophomore, .---------------..., undergraduate officer caml!Ilission- J'Oil could completeyourbasiclr>in- J'Iflftt ~-lJ m'n•m ingprogram. You could ~ ing during two six-week summer ,..,..i; ,.,_ 1 11 V r ~ start off lllilking more sessions and earn more than $1100 • air J, ~ than $17,000 a year. during each session up qmcAJ.y I' We'relotJkingforaiew.frodmen. · See Captain Mik~n at the College Center or 15th and 16th of October From ·1 0 am to 3 pm or call (518) 438-6963 · 1-800-342-2408- ..

Athlete of the Week By CHRIS HINCKLEY ~e past wee~ in sports at Umon College was thrown for aloop by some unexpected bad weather. Many events were cancelled but the football team managed t() trounce Colby College on Saturday before the, bad. stuff hit. In the game agamst C()lby, one player's performanc~ was . quite im• pressive. 'This player is senior split end Matt Smith. Smith bad a great game against Colby and upon further investigatio~ this writeL\realized that Smith's p~st performance this year has been even greater and worthyof . recognitioll. So, this week, Matt Smith will be recognized as the Athlete of the Week not ·only because ()f his recent per- formance~ but due to my per- sonal oversight, his per- .formance ill past weeks also. Against F & M Smith had his · be~ game. He had a\\total of 10 receptions f()r 155 yards, three Matt Smith of which resulted in Dutchmen touclldowns. On kickoffs Matt had six returns for a total of 131J yds. Giving a game total 377 yards! 'Wilen the team 'lost its second game Smith collected 277 yds. · aad another touchdown, brihging his two game total to an amazing 617 yds. By the ·end of Union's third game Matt was averaging 83.7 receiving yards .per game. He had a 30.3-yard average in the kickoff return department and 11.4 for ptmts. Against Colby, Matt had a 73- yard· punt return. And a beautiful ao .. yd. kickoff return fol\ a. touchdown ended up being called back due to a careless penalty. At the end of the game he bad brought his averages up and recorded the inlpressive · statistic of scoring S touch· d{)wns in four games. Matt comes from Schenec· ·. tady, New York and he played high school ball at the Christian Brothers Academy in Albany, NY. Awarding Athlete of the Week to Matt Smith this. week has obviously been a long time coming. Maybe this week's award would more ap· ;pr()priately be called \Athlete ·of the Month\. Congratulations again to Matt for a gr,eat season to date and g{)(>d luck to him and the teaxn in the rest ·of their season. Women's Cross-Country Smokes Hamiltoh; Men Lose The Union College · cr<iss- country teams.split a dual meet with Hamilton College . on· Saturday. ll:unning on a muddy Central Park course made even more treacllerous · by ~ high school invitational earlier in the day, the women posted a 22-33 victory over the Continentals, while the men dropped a 17-40 decision. Once again, the surprising lady Dutcbmen were led by senior Jenny Lee and freshman Kara Merrill. The wet course did not seem to bother either of them, as th'e two finishedl-2, with Lee's· time of 16:32 only8 seconds off the school record. Merrill finished just 19 sec011ds ·behind Le~ as she kicked past two Hannlton runners In. the last half mile of the race. Eileen Brady ran a stN>ng third for the women's te!l!ll, as she finished Sth overall. with a timeo£17:24. · Th~ men;·s team did not fa:r~ nearly as well against Hamiltolt ru; tile women. Led· by Andy Bal'tlett's winning time of 26:20, the Continentals had thre~ ntnners across the line before Un:io:n' s Jim LeBrou finished. LeEL\ou fini~hed with a time cf 26: .54: despite taking a · nasty spill near the end of the race. FollCJwing LeBron were Dave Defilippo and Steve Szydlik, whcvrere 7.thand 8th with times of27:09 and 27:11, respectively. Desp.ite the loss, however, the Duicllmen received much irnpNJved performances by their fourth, fifth, and sixth r:unners. Wayne Kotary picked ap lOth place .for Union with his ~:15 time, andfJ;es1unan Dave Steen, in hi$ first five mile ct()sS-cotmtry race, followed llim. closely f clocldng 28: 27 to take 11th place. Jim Campoli also finished strongly for Union, as he notched a 14th .plce finish with his first sub-29 minute p~rformance over the home course. This weekend, the women will participate in the Capital District meet at the Saratoga State Park. The men's team, which had originally been scheduled to meet Colgate on Friday aftern()On, will instead have a weekend offbefore going upagainstRPion October 17. C!tnncnr~ienliis SPORTS About two weeks ago one ()f the sportscasters on the evening news said that Mike Tyson's people had announced that he would. never step into the ring with Michael Spinks. This was a very delayed responce to Spink's statement last year that he would never fight Tyson. However, now both sides seem to be in a collision course. Both sides are obviously trying to~ turn this into a huge media event by saying it will never happen. By the time. these guys are done talking, the priz.e will be larger than any other . in history. To date, the biggest buildup and showcase in boxing hist()ry was this past spring when Sugar . Ray Leonard, coming out· of retiremen~ for the third time, squared off against Marvelous Marvin Hagler. As you may recall, the fight lived up to its expectations as the two fighters went the distance with Leonard prevailing in the split decision. qThe Spinks-Tyson fight would be an even bigger attraction than Leonard-Hagler matchup was.\· \The fight is unlikely te happen for some time as both . fighters would need months to train for the fight of s11ch magnitude!' A$ for now, Tyson is the undisputed Heavy Weight Champicn of the World. . However, several people in sports are disputing this claim. One of these people is Micheal · Spinks. The IBF originally took away the title from Spinks because he would not fight Tyson, instead he fought Gerry Conney. At the time Tyson was simply unstoppable and he mowing down his opponents like nothing ever seen before. New · Spinks has changed his tune.He feels that he has been robbed of the belt and that Tyson has not proven himself at all. Let's take a look at the matchup. First, Tyson is un- defeated. He has just come off victories over Tony Tucker, Bonecrusher Smith, Mitch Green and Trevor Berbeck. Tyson's strategy is very simple. He trains for months and Not In the ,Box Sco,re by Mark Zimmerman months at a time and then when he finally does enter the ring it all goes to pot. He completely drops his fundementals and goes for the iDlDlediate knockout. The fight he had versus Tucker was typical Tyson. He came cut strong in the first round and eventually knocked him out. Burbeck only lasted into the third round. Don't get me wrong, this theory has worked for Tyson so far, but Tyson showed his lack of composure when he could ,not knock out Bonecrusher .Smith and was forced to win it by a . decision. Many times we have seen Tyson's trainer'syelling at him to stay with the strategy they have prepare!l for him instead of just .going out there and going nuts. Spinks on the other hand is a very smart fighter. Spinks has had big wins over Gerry Cooney and Larry Holmes. Many people feel that Spinks did not prove anything in his win over Cooney because Cooney is not a good fighter. However, Spinks must be given some credit. Sometimes when a fighter fights an opponent who is not very good they don't fight that well either. Spinks complelety dominated Conney, in every way and took total conunand of the fight. He did not just beat Conney, he annihalated him. The big story about Spinks is his demolition of Larry Hohnes. Spinks disected Holmes' every move and proved he was the superior fighter. Now for the big question, who would win the battle between Spinks and Tyson. Spinks would have to be the favorite. Tyson's strategy would be to go out fast and hard. Yet Spinks would counter this by staying loose and not geting into the heavy fighting early. Tyson gets nervous when he dosen 't get an early knockdown. This would be a plus to Spinks. By the late rounds Spinks would have Tyson right where he wanted him although it would probably go the distance, Spinks would be the new Un· disputed Heavy Weight Champion of the World. -:-Intercollegiate Men's Basketball - Physicals: Sunday, October 11 at 6:15 PM Training Room In Achilles Rink · ~No Makeup Available· . Tryouts for Varsity and J.V. Program October 19 (Monday) at 4:00pm in the Fieldhouse If there are any questions, please contact Coach Scanlon in Alumni Gym.

I ' ,'f H ·' .. 'I .. , .. CONCORDIENSlS, October 8, 1987 Page 23 -.-- - - - __ ......, - ~ - Athlete of the Week By CHRIS HINCKLEY The past week in sports at Union College was thrown for aloap by some unexpected bad weather. Many events were cancelled but the football team managed to trounce Colby College on Saturday before the. bad stuff hit. In the game against Colby, one player's performance was . quite im- pressive .. This player is senior split end Matt Smith. Smith had a great game against Colby, and upon further investigation this writer realized that Smith's p~st pedormance this year has been even greater and worthy of recognition. So, this week, Matt Smith will be recognized as the Athlete of the Week not only because of his recent per- formance, but due to my per- sonal oversight, his per- formance in past weeks also. Against F & M Smith bad his best game. He had a· total of 10 receptions for 155 yards, three Matt Smith of which resulted in Dutchmen touchdowns. On kickoffs Matt had six returns for a total of 138 yds. Giving a game total 377 yards! When the team lost its second. game Smith collected 277 yds. and another touchdown, bringing his two game total to an amazing 617 yds. By the end of Union's third game Matt was averaging 83.7 receiving yards per game. He had a 30.3-yard ~verage in the kickoff return department and 11.4 for punts. Against Colby, Matt had a 73- yard. · punt return. And a beautiful 80~yd. kickoff return for a touchdown ended up being called back due to a careless penalty. At the end of the game he had brought his averages up and recorded the impressive statistic of scoring 5 touch~ downs in four games. Matt comes from Schenec- tady, New York and he played high school ball at the Christian Brothers Academy in Albany, NY. Awarding Athlete of the Week to Matt Smith this week has obviously been a long time coming. Maybe this week's award would more ap- propriately be called \Athlete of the Month\. Congratulations again to Matt for a great season to date and good luck to him and the team in the rest of their season. Women's Cross-Country Smokes Hamilton; Men Lose The Union College cross- country teams split a dual meet with Hamilton College . on Saturday. Running on a muddy Central Park course made even more treacherous by ~ high school invitational earlier in the day, the women posted a 22-33 victory over the Continentals, while the men dropped a 17-40 decision. Once again, the surprising lady Dutchmen were led by senior Jenny Lee and freshman Kara Merrill. The wet course did not seem to bother either of them, as the two finished 1-2, with Lee's time of 16:32 only8 seconds off the school record. Merrill finished just 19 seconds behind Lee as she kicked past two Hamilton runners in the last half mile of the race. Eileen Brady ran a strong third for the women's team, as she finished 5th overall with a time of 17: 24. The men's team did not fare nearly as well against Hamilton as the women. Led by Andy Bartlett's winning time of 26:20, the Continentals had three runners across the line before Union's Jim LeBron finished. LeBrou finished with a time of 26:54 despite taking a nasty spill near the end of the race. Following LeBron were Dave Defilippo and Steve Szydlik, who were 7th and 8th with times of 27:09 and 27:11, respectively. Despite the loss, however, the Dutchmen received much improved performances by their fourth, fifth, and sixth runners. Wayne Kotary picked up lOth place for Union with his 28:15 time, and f~eshman Dave Steen, in his first five mile cross-country race, followed him closely, clocking 28:27 to take 11th place. Jim Campoli also finished strongly for Union, as he notched a 14th plce finish with his first sub-29 minute performance over the home course. This weekend, the women will participate in the Capital District meet at the Saratoga State Park. The men's team, which had originally been scheduled to meet Colgate on Friday afternoon, will instead have a weekend off before going up against RPI on October 17. Fraternity RUsh . ;:·>·.; Phf Sigm~ :Kappa ~lplt~. . a . m .... ·' 1...·.· ·.\\.:'' .. ,4.;a.'·.'.'.'.· ...... l't\ ..... ·' .. 'ill< ... '·l: .. ''' ~~~ .;. -~ . '·. '·1 :00~4:~.0 pm 9.:00 p;m . 7:00--9:00 pm 8:00pm 7:00pm 9:00pm .. , 7:00 pn:t:: ' 7:oo plitiir. · ... _;.<-··- About two \WE~lts ago one of the sportscaster's o11:tlle evening news said t~at mike Tyson's people had ann()m~ed that he would never ~t.ep, in: to the ring with Michael~pints. rms was a very delayed responce to Spink's staternen1lla~t year that he would n~ver :fi15ht Tyson. However, no~ boti:J sides seem to be in a collis:i~11 C()urse. Both sides are ol»viou~ly trying to' turn this into a h.uge media event by saying: it wlll never happen. By tbe ti10e tbese guys are done talltir.g, tfue j)rize will be larger ti:la:11 any other in history. To date, tbe blg~est buildup and showcase in bo():&lng history was this past sprinJ:l' wh€n Sugar Ray Leonarc:l\ cOomlng out of retirement f()r tlie· third time, squared off a'ain~t Marvelous Marvin Hag1e!t. lis y-ou may recall, the fi~bt lL ved up to its expectations as.tlietwQ fighters went the dis~nce -vritl1 Leonard prevailing in ttJ.e s;p]t decision. \The Spinks-!fyso1r fight would be an even boi~gel.\ attraction than Leonard- JI~gler matchup was.\ \The figll.t Ls mlikely to happen for sorne time as both fighters would m-ed months to train for ttle- fl~tlt of such magnitude!' ~sf<Jr.llow, Tyson is the undisputed Hieilvy Weight Champion of the World. However, s.:renJ people in sports are di:sp.utln~ this claim. One of these lJieop.le is Micheal Spinks. The [B:F OJI:l;ginally took away the title :fi\()m Spinks because he ~()uildl aot fight Tyson, instead 'll.e fo11ght Gerry Canney. At ti:Je ti1r1e Tyson was simply unstop()a!Jle and he mowing downbls·()PIPO!lents like nothing ever- ~een. before. Now Spinks has cll.a:llge!(j llis tune. He feels that he l!as bEe!lrobbed of the belt and tliAlt l'rson has not proven himself a tall. Let's take a to.ok at the matchup. Fil's1, '£f'son is un- defeated. He h~s .bu:st come off victories over 1()ny Tucker, Bonecrusher Sltlit!J., Mitch Green and rre~.()I:\ Berbeck. Tyson's strateg:y is: vrery simple. He trains f(). r months and SPORTS Nolin the Box Score by Mark Zimmerman months at .a time and then when he finally does enter the ring it all goes to pot. He completely drops his fundementals and goes fo~ the innnnediate knockout. The fight he had versus Tucker was typical Tyson. He eame out strong in the first round and eventually knocked him out. Bm·beck only lasted into the third round. Don't get rne wrong, this theory has worked for Tyson so far, but Tyson snowed his lack of composure when he could .not knock out Eonecrusher Smith and was for\ced to win it by a decision. M~ny times we have seen Tyson':strainer'syelling at him to stay with the strategy they have prepared for him instead of Just going out there and going 11uts. Spinks on the other hand is a very smart fighter. Spinks has had big wins over Gerry Cooney and Larry Holmes. Many people feel that Spinks did not prove anytlling in his win over Cooney becallSe Cooney is not a good fighter. However, Spinks must be gjven some credit. Sometimes when a fighter fights an opponent who is not very good tlley don't fight that well either. Spinks complelety dominated Conney, in every way and t()ok total C()Inmand of the fight. He did not just beat Conney, he annihalated him. The big story about Spinks is his demolition of Larry Holmes. Spinks disected Holmes' every move and proved he was the superior fighter. Now for the big question, who would win the battle between Spinks and Tyson. Spinks would have to be the favorite. Tyson's strategy would be to go out fast and hard. Yet Spinks would counter this by staying l<Jose and not geting into the beavy fighting early. Tyson gets nervous when he dosen't get an early knockdown. This would l:le a plus to Spinks. By the late rounds Spinks would have Tyson right where he wanted him although it would probably go the distance, Spinks would be the new U n- disputed Heavy Weight Champion oftbe World. ~ Intercollegiate Men's Basketball - Physit:als: Sunday, October 11 at6:15 PM lra.ining Room In Achilles Rink -f\lo Makeup Available· . Trro uts for Varsity and J.V. Program October ·ts, ~l'A·onday) at 4:00 pm in the Fieldhouse If th&re ere any questions, please contact Coach Scanlon in Alumni :Gym. -

' j '\ ,.,, ·~. ·. Page 24 COlJC(/RDIENSIS, Octobl!t 8, 1987 Dutchmen Shoot Down Mules; Clobber Colby 36-7 H:uns Fall Short: Second Lo.ss in a Row · October 8, 1987 Gridders Roll to 2nd Straight ... even season m11rk at .SilO By ANDREW MILLER While the world was preparing for the com-· mencement of scab Sunday, Ute fighting football DutchmEn quietly pounced on the Mules from Colby, 36-7. The win was Union's second straight, pushing them to the .500 plateau. for the season. At 2-2 tl:ie gridders appear to be on their way to another successful season. On the down side it would take a minor miracle for the Dutchmen to be invited to the NCAA division III playoffs. The correct combination of losses by the league leaders combined with a Union sweep of the rest of the season would be the only hope for the Dutchmen to keep their string of 4 straigbt playoff appearances alive. The Union-Colby game was another, in a long string of, lopsided affairs. Coming off last weeks i.m:pressive 18-3 downing of Hobart, the gridders were wary of a let-down. \We played with a lot of intensity last week:\ said Bagnoli, who saw his six· year record ~prove to 47-9. \We played hard, we didll't take a quarter to wake up, and we didn't take this game lightly.\ The Dutchmen in· tensity was exemplified by the effort of punt returner Matt Smith. Union stuffed the mules on their opening drive and forced them to kick. The Colby punt sailed f:o the Dutchmen 27 yard line .V'Vhere junior Matt Smith bauled' it in and turned on the gas. Smith cut right, protected by the Union return wedge, and exploded unt()uched for 73 yards. The score set the . tone for the day and ignited a furious first quarter for the gridders. On their nrst possession, the Dutchmen drove 73 yards culminating .in a 25 yard scoring strike from Jim Poirier to senior George McAvory, put- ting the games first points on the board. Two possessions later, Poirier struck again with his second :25-yard touchdown pass. Junior Nick Capuano broke open [n the end-zone and was quickli' greeted with a Poirier bullet. The score gave union a 21-0tead with33 seconds left in the opening quarter. The Dutchim.en used all three of their qu.arterbacks in the game. Senior signal caller Tim Valachovic took over the reins and promptly drove the team 51 yards in sm: plays. The drive was capped by Valachovic's 5- yard run. Senior tailback Darrell Shepherd finished off Union's scoring with a five yard td. burst in tbe third quarter. The Colby game was by far the Dutchmen's best offensive showing thi~ season. On the ground the ;gridders rolled up 218 yards in an 11 man com- bined effort. Through the air Poirier, Valachovic, and senior Mike Gargiulo completed 11 of 20 passe~ for 175 yards. Defensively, Union allowed a total of 108 yards, 46 rushing and 62 passing. Colby's quar ... terback was dropped 5 times for negative 30 yards and forced two turnovers. ~·con­ fidencewise, this· has to help us,\ said Bagnoli about his teams performance. UPI Thumbnails Union leads the series by a 12~ 7 margin. Since the series was revived in 1984, the Dutchmen have beaten the Engineers by the scores of 2()..0, 12-9, and 32- 16. The first game between the two schools was a 6-0 WPI victory in 1909. This, like the Colby game, will be the last meeting between the two schools. The game is scheduled for a 1 :30 starting time, and is part of Union's Homecoming Weekend. WPI: Engineers are on a two game slide, dropping their last two 35-8 to Coast Guard, and l9- 16toTufts. Players to Watch: Quar- terback Greg Whitney - 40 of 73 for 498 yards (3 td's. and 3 in- terceptions). Dan O'Connell, 6'4, 235-pound tight .end (17 receptions for 169 yards and two td's.) Overall: Engineers have picked up 651 yards on the grounds and 481 yards in air. SCAB Sunday By LARRY ROSENTHAL Well, I have to admit, Tactually enjoyed \Scab Football.\ Where else can you see an in- terception, two fumbles, a touchdown, and a penalty flag all in one play? Viewers of the Los Angeles Rams-New Orleans Saints game saw just this, as strange (and somewhat amusing) plays dominated last Sunday's highlight film. While stuck at home due to the snowstorm, I watched the New ~d Patriots lose to the Cli!veland Browns, in a game which feat\lfed the NFL's new \boz'' Cleveland's ()f• fensive · lineman Edward Bosely .. \The Boz\ measured in at over six feet, three ill· che~and well over 320 pounds. Surprisingly, he was an ef. fective member of the Browns offensive charge. which was conducted tllrough the rwming game. The. Browns had no regulars on ihe field while my Patriorts still managed to lose with six. How embarrassing? My only c-onsolation is the knowledge . that Washington defeated St. ~ouis with no regulars, wllile the Cards had fifteen. The one tilling which I did not enjoy during; the game were the condescendlllg remarks made by the broa.deasters aimed at the relpacem.ent players (who am I kidding;? I thought most of them were funny.) For example, Bob Costas remarked that the Boz':s time for the forty yard dash is nCJt known, due to the fact that he hasn't com- pleted it yet. Another com- mentor reliiAI'ked that one player has played in the USFL, the CFL, tile Arena Football League, and now the \NFL. He proceded to say that next week thi:5 player will be playing Stratomatic. Funny, but cruel. The one totally uncalled for remark came from the mouth of Terry Bradshaw. After hearing about Gary Hogeboom's five T.D. passes, he sarcastically remarked that he should \be really proud of himself \ ac- complishing such a feat against the Buffalo Bills, who have no regular. players. I · know many people won't like to hear this, but I actually would not mind seeing another week or two of \Scab Football.\ It was amusing to watch,. and I feel sorry f()r some of the players whose only time in -the NFL ended with thousands of empty seats andwithin the timespan of three hours. Siena Stuns Union Ruggers By DAVE MORRISON Last . Saturday, the Union \Huns\ rugby team ttied to do what they have in the past done best-overcome the elements and conquer. Unfortunately they fell short of that goal. This was not only Union's second loss in a row, but it was enough to eliminate Union from playoff contention. The game, -which took place at the Girling Center . in order to preserve library fieW, ended with Siena ahead 11-9. Union's first opportunity to get on the board came on a · penalty kick .from 30 meters out by junior eight-man Chris Sheridan. The kick was called questionably and suspiciously wide by a Siena touch jUdge-a call that would come back to haunt Union. A few minutes later into the first half, Sheridan made sure of the three points and nailed a 25 meter kick putting Union ahead 3-0. Second-row Dave Morrison was knocked out of the game with a broken nose and replaced by freshman Brendan Pollock. This was Pollock's first ap. pearartce in an AAside game. Siena threatllned to score when a Siena rugger dove into the right side of the try-zone; They missed the conversion, but Union still found themselves trailing 11-9. For the remainder of the game, Union had a hard time getting the ball down Siena's end of the field for an extended period of time. At the final buzzer; Siena stood on top n..:9. Serum captain J ody Perkins commented, \We played much better . than . we played against Hamilton. We were far more intense, our ptll\:stli.twas quicker and our . line bad seemingly pulled togetlter. It was . a disappointing loss.\ Sophomore prop Scott Phillips felt that \we weren't stepping over the ball in the rueks, which made it' difficultto control the ball.\ The Killer B~s demonstrated that inexperience can be overcome by hard work. The credit for tbis intense level of play goes to the captains Josh Derechin and Perkins. They have developed these . younger players into go()d solid rugby players. · The First sc~re came from Pat Dicierbo when he kicked a 15 meter penalty :kick making it 3-0~ The score was soon in- creased to 7.,() when .Faiz Kahn pursued the ball to receive a pass from DiCierbo to score the first try of the garne. Siena went on the board witb a penalty kick, and the score was 7-3. DiCierbo had another kick that made the scCJre 10-3. In the closing minutes, Siena would come hack to score a try but it wasn't enough. The Union Killer B's had won again. Captain Perkins said, '\The rocking was showing im· provement. Ee added, ''the gro.und work is ,being laid for the younger players and it is reflected in the play of our B- team. I'm very pwud oftbem.\ DiCierbo had special prai$e for the play of Freshman Ed Whalch. The Uni()Il \Huns\ will face One(lnta during Homecoming weel\end away. SUP,PORT UNION SPORTS 1 l> .,.. t ~ c 1 p ·~ a s li d tl n n d tl s n E p a B L .D R sl a! OJ S! \' tf w dt R PI bi

CXVII;. No. 4 Daniels and Local I Attorney Debate Bark N_·_-_:Omin·ati.On . . By DEBitA B. HONIG \Saturday Night massacre\ of · Watergate have negatively Supreme Court nomin-ee influenced Pean Daniels' Robert Bork was the subject of, opinion of the nominee. Bork's debate and the center of C()tl- political philosophies often troversy at· the Intellect!lal · clash with those of Dean Cabaret this past Monday. Daniels', liberals, and even Fifty~three senators have moderate conservatives. Dean publicly announced opposit!i>il Daniels s~id, \I never to Bork's nomination so far,. · disbelieved bis character or his because they fear that !Jis · . ability, but I might hedge a bit narrow interpretation of tfue on confidence and certainly on constitution would influence the · ideology.'' court's_ decision · j.n an' UJl- • Horan, however, stressed desirable diFection. Boric's. that the Senate has greatly bistow¥ as th~ federal appeals misunderstood Bark's views. As court judge an~ the Solicik>r an example, Horan showed that General, and his m.uner-{)us Bork does believe in the right to acade~c articles, indicate tbat privacy, although he is more likely to place limitations on the 11 He dmply has ndt acce,pted 20th century constitutional )aw.'' · extent of that right. Horan said that Bork is not a threat to such· individual rights, although his · interpretation of ~he con- $titution is a stri~t:one. 1877 Not,t Memorial .. The landmark in desparate need of repair. Nott Renovations Planne·d; Face Red Tape Delays •• ... (J) Jj 2 \ . October 15, 1987 Slow Construction Delays WRUC Broadcasting Should Begin Next Week By CHARLIE SL.O'l'NIK ! 0 WRUC, the radio · ·staion of ~ Union College should begin 0 broadcasting on a limited basis 0 next week, according to WRUC a student technician Jim Cirin- cione. The station encountered unexpected delays in the move from the old temporary studio above Old Chapel to the new studio located in the college center. The executive board of WRUC originally .planned that the station would be on the air shortly after the start ()f school in September. But be<!ause of problems with the irlstallation the nQ~ee IJl~intai.ns cto. extrenn~ly conservative stance on civil liberties. in USA 'l.\ODAY Octnber 9, law professor Eleanor Hohnes Norton said, \He simply bas not accept-ed 20th century cort- stitutionallaw.\ lloran .also pointed out that the · heavy- concentration. of Democrats i11 the Senate bas turned the nomiDation. into a highly. political match. He believes that ·some senators have found this situation as the perfect opportunity to ·\stick _ B~(BE'm.LANSDlDEL · Editor's note: This• is the first of a two-part serles. This week: plans, problems, and history. Next week: a photo feature of the illterior, more on renovations, and opinions. Form\'lstlldent inte.J;estJ.n $he. _ · Nott Memorial's restoration · ·. wa$ Pejtivtmated'last spring, A of the antenna, the construction of new custom cabinets for the · equipment, and the need for additional soundproof windows, WRUC has been unable to broadcast this school year. PresideQt . Reagan · has an- n:ounced that he will not with- draw his nomination, evem though he does not have tile majority support of the Senate needed to confirm Bork. If Bor~ decides that he wants to follow through with the procedure, tlu~ Senate wiii vote later tbhs month. At the debate, Uean Williaill Daniels argued the anti~Borlc position, and Schenectadr attorney Michael Horan took 101 Bork's defense, with sophomore Linda Hynes as moderat()I\ Dean Daniels explained th#ilt Reagan advocates Bork sr;. strongly because they think. ctlong the same lines, especially on topics such as religion in sehool and abortion. He said; \This nominee would support tllat part of Reagan's agenda which he has been unable to deliver.'~ Bork'-s opposition to the :Civil Rights . Act, his criticism of previous court decisions, a11d bis involvement in · the :In This Issue: Library Etiquette . p; 6 International Students Float Debut ... p. 8 Field Hockey .. p. 19 Continued on 2 ,~ . ~ ..... . .,. . ~· ,' ' . ' . Minerva Hour Speaker Chief Justice Wachtler Chief Justice .Wachtler Sees Constitutional Adaptability in Its F·lexi:ble Wording By ELIZAH~THBERLINER Chief Justice Wachtler of the New York State Court of ·Appeals spoke at Union as part of the Minerva Hour Series on Wednesday, October-· 3. Wachtler began with a few · words on the lighter side of life as a chief jUstice .of the highest court in New York, and then · turned to address the topic of the purpose of the Constitution in today's society. · In celebrating the bicen- tennial of our. Constitution, Wachtler reflected that realistically, it \is no more than words\ and, in fact, these words do not always ring ,true. For · example, the .phrase . \all men are created equal\ was ludicrous at the time of the framing of the Constitution as it obviously did not refer to minorities or the impoverished. Yet, as time went by, each , ·generation brought new meaning to the words and built on to the original document with variollS amendments. Ultimately, Wachtler examined the concept of \original intent\ and its pur- pose m the court system today. How can one inter.pret What the · frrune1·s would say regarding wire taps, pollution in the Hudson, or mercy killing when such issues were not even · conceived of 200 years ago? - ObvioUsly, the foWlders could not predict the future, so they · Continued en page 2 · report on former architectural studies and the present state of the Nott Memorial as well as a proposal for a committee to handle the Nott Memorial's restoration was presented to the Student Forum by Keith Bemis andsupp<Jrted unanimously. Last week, the same proposal and report were presented to the Board of Trustees by · student trustees Wendy En- . dress and Mark Webster. Reception was enthusiastic. Currently, a proposal for the Nott Memorial's -restoration is being reviewed by the Board's Priorities and Planning Committee. Difficulties in Restoration In order for restoration to begin .several needs must be met. The college is i.iltersted in proposals for the use of the Memorial An architectural firln which is capable of han• dling the project must be located. F·tinds must be ob- tained f()r the restoration. In ortter to receive certain funds -from historic foundations, the NottMemorial would have to be restored to its original con- dition. Sinee 1903, th~ Memorial had served as a Graduate's Hall, a museum, a library, an alumni meeting · place, a campus bookstore, and presently contains a theater and f-aculty offices. Each has changed the interior of the Memorial Even if viable proposals for the use of the Nott Memorial are not present, restoration of the. Nott Memorial's exterior must begin. There are several structural problems that need to be remedied. Ivy is responsible for the deterioration of the mortar between .the stones in the outer walls and in the foundation. There is bonding missing between the stones. Missing Continued on page-2 Last spring the College contracted Ken Moffet as chief technician in ·charge of setting up the radio station in the college-center. Moffet was hired based on the WRUC e:xecutive board's recommendation that Moffet bad previously done excellent work for the station. Howeye.r, Moffett has been slow \Once we agreed with the radio station's choice on a contractor, nothing could be done.\ in constructing the custom cabinets, which make it im- possible for the equipment to be placed in the studio. \Once we agreed with the radio station's choice on a contractor nothing could be done. Whenever you have new construction, there are going to be delays,'' said Joseph Mammola, dean of students. Director of Physical 'Plant Jack Hill added, \This was a complicated move and being a one.nian operation was part of the problem, The students in- volved in WRUC have con- fidence in him (Moffet) and have found him competent.\ Despite WRUC not being able to broadcast, . they are still organized, which means that immediately after their technical problems ·are solved they will . be able to offer programming. \We still have weekly board meetings, a disc jockey schedule complete, and are just waiting for Moffet to finish,\ says WRUC general manager Conrad Tatge. J0nce WRUC begin$ broad- casting the quality of the productions should be significantly improved as the new studio will be tec1lnically superior than any of the facilities WRUC has had in the past. . .

Page 2 Structure Problems Continued from page 1 railings around the dome and slates on the roof need to be repaired. History of the Nott The Nott Memorial is an unusual building which should not be allowed to deteriorate. The Memorial is named in honor of Eliphalet Nott, Union's fourth president. Construction was begun in 1858, discentinued from 1859-1872 because of the Civil War, and completed In 1903 The Nott MemoriaJ's architect was Edward Tuckerman Potter, a Union graduate and Eliphalet, Nott's grandson. Edward Tuckerman Potter and William Tuckerman Potter were leaders of the Victorian Gothic revival in the United States. The Gothic style is characterized by the use of a pointed arch and ribbed vaults. The sixteen~sided memorial has many interesting features. On the first floor, there is an imported, encaustic tile floor underneath the floor of the theater. Mastic floors con- structed from corrugated iron sheets covered by an asphaltic compound compose the second and third floors. The ironwork structure allows for a space in the center of the Nott Memorial's dome to the first floor. Throughout the Memorial, the Golden Section was included in the design and construction of the arches and foundation. The Golden Section is a ratio (0.618:1) between two portions of a line which is used by architects to denote a building's uniqueness and superior design. The ratio is found in nature and has been utilized in the Parthenon as well as other structures. In the dome are '7-09 illuminators, pieces of glass two inches in diameter ·which contain a five point star. To the North, the illuminators radiate the Sacred Spectrum which ranges from purple to rose. To the ·South; an array from the Newtonium Spectrum shines. The Nott was named to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972 and made a National Historic Landmark in July1986. The deterioration of the Nott Memorial has not gone un- noticed. An article in the April 1987 issue of Preservation News creates a dismal picture of the Nott Memorial's state. Presently, the Nott Memorial has a truly Gothic style, characterized by \an at- mosphere of degeneration and decay.\ Anyone interested in supporting the restoration should contact Keith Bemis or other members of the Student Forum. CONCOBIJlENSJS, October 15, 1987 IFC Announces Brown Cup Winner · ByTRACEVPRYLUCK and MEG ROSENBERG Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) has been declared the winner of this year's Stephen P. Brown Mernorialr Tr()phy. This award is presented to the fraternity with the best fecord in scholarship, intramural athletics, charity and .ex- tra\\\(lurricular activities. Kappa Sigma and Sigma Chi were runners-up. B; · The winner of the Brown Cup· -§· · is determined through an -& elaborate .point system. At the , money raise<! and given to charities. The m()st elaborate calculations are in the category of extracurricular activities. Leadership ill major clubs such as Concor!lien5is, Student Forum, yeariJOok and varsity athletics receive six points. Smaller leadersltip roles in the major clubs usually receive three points. Mi11or clubs and some committees receive one or two points, depending on their calculated importance. Photo of the Week: Richmond ·e~Jdents try a popu'lar pasttime -tie dyeing. end of eacb year, the In- terfraternity Council president sends a letter to' each of the fraternities with a list of ac- · tivities and their point values. Scholarship point values are determined by ~alculating each fraternity's cumulative average. The winner of. Greek Week receives additional points, and points are .awarded for , participation in in· · Chief Justice Wachtler The secretary of eac~ house must calculate the po4lt values tram urals. Tells of New York State'.s Original Disap:proval of U.S. Constitution · for tile members of his house, ._ using the prepared chart. Service to the conutnmity (charity) is split into two subdivisions: The number of people involved in community • service and the number of hours spent is the first subdivision. The other is the amount of The winner is announced during halftime at the Homecoming f()otball game. Each year. tile name of the Stephen P. Brown Award recipient .is e11graved jnthe cup, and the cup is displayed in the winner's hoase until the following Homeconling. · Continued from page 1 provided adaptations that would adjust to the technology of the futw-e through the 9th Amendment, commonly called the \elastic clause.\ This allowance was perhaps the genius of the U.S. Constitution and has been vital to its 200 year survival. \People give rights to the government, and not vice-versa.\ The chief justice also examined the irony in that, of · all of the states, New York was the least willing to sign the Constituti()n. At the time the WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS? CALL Becky x4416 Fiona x4166 state was the only truly prospering area and dominated . overseas importation, so it stmt thr-ee, representatives and brought two of them home a few mo11tJJs later: Oil his own will, Alexander -Hamilton remained, eventually signing the docuotent \from the state of Ne\V York\ rather than the staiJdard statement \for the state of ... \ becaase, in reality, he was representing his own vie\''S and not that of the state. Finally, Chief Justiee Wa(lltler concluded his in- f<mnative yet amasing speeeh by stressing that it is always vital to rernember that \people give rights to the government, a11duot vice versa.\ Above all, the rights ()f the individual must · always be defended. Then with · a hlUltorously abrupt dismissal · of a suggestion t() run for goverli()r, WachHer dashed CJff to attend: another vital ap- pointment in the Albany area. Such is the life of a busy chief justiee. Horan Claims Senate Misunderstands Bork's Views Continued from page 1 one to the President.\ Senator Jake Garn, a . Republican from Utah, similarly stated in USA TODAY, ''I think that the Democrats and those of the liberal left have set a frightening precedent in the Senate that Should never have been set. They have completely politicized the judicial nomillation by grossly sub.. verting the whole process. and by falling prey to special irt- terest groups.\ Both Dean Daniels and Horan have observed that the. Senate · has subjected Bork to more· thorough scrutiny than they have other candidates in the past, and they agree that an analysis of this depth is im- portant. Article 2 Section 2 in the Constitution has granted the Senate with the power of inquiry, but this instance shows that the Senate is trying to increase its m le. Horan emphasized his con- fidence in Bork: because of his \towering intellect'l and his • qualifications as .a jurist. One . student in th.e audience said, however, that ••you're playing with fire\ when these ad- • miiable chat~aci:eristics are · separated from Bork's questionable ideology. Dean Daniels explained that he is not critieal oi conservative judges as a whole, but finds problems , with: Bor-k's in- dividual ide()logies. Horan generalized, llowever, \Conv- servative judges are younger and healthier than liberal · judges.\ Finally, Horan predicts that if Bork is turned down, Reagan. will merely nominate anothe1 person who is \just as conservative and not as well-known.\ :fresliman 9/iglit .9lt 'Dutcli J{o{{ow 'Tuesaay 10/20 Join Us For an Ice Cream Smorg-asbord You design your own sundae! ... And to make it a sweeter treat, here·s a coupon for 50¢ off. Join V.s Please!

Page 2 Structure Problems Ccntlnued from page 1 railings around the dome and slates on the roof need to be repaired. History of the Nott The Nott Memorial is an trnusual building which should not be allowed to deteriorate. Tlle Memorial is named in honor of Eliphalet Nott, Union's lourth president. Construction was begun in 1858, discontinued from 1859-1872 because of the CivilWar, andcompletedin 1903 The Nott Memorial's architect was Edward Tuckerman Potter, a Union graduate and Eliphalet Nott's grandson. Edward Tuckerman Potter and William Tuckerman Potter were leaders of the Victorian Gothic revival in the United States. The Gothic style is characterized by the use of a pointed arch and ribbed va'tllts. The sixteen-sided memorial has many interesting features. On the first floor, there is an imported, encaustic tile floor underneath the floor of the theater. Mastic floors con- structed from corrugated iron sheets covered by an asphaltic compound compose the second and third floors. The ironwork structure allows for a space in the center of the Nott Memorial's dome to the first floor. Throughout the Memorial, the Golden Section was included in the design and construction of the arches and foundation. The Golden Section is a ratio (0.618:1) between two portions of a line which is used by architects to denote a building's uniqueness and superior design. The ratio is found in nature and has been atilized in the Parthenon as well as other structures. In the dorne are 709 illuminators, pieces of glass two irlches in diameter which contain a five point star. To the North, the illuminators radiate the Sacred Spectrum which ranges from purple to rose. To the South, an array from the N ewtonium Spectrum shines. The Nott was named to the National Register of Historic Places in 1972 and made a National Historic Landmark in July 1986. The deterioration of the Nott Memorial has not gone un- noticed. An article in the April 1987 issue of Preservation News creates a dismal picture of the Nott Memorial's state. Presently, the Nott Memorial has a truly Gothic style, characterized by \an at- mosphere of degeneration and decay.\ Anyone interested in supporting the restoration should contact Keith Bemis or other members of the Student Forum. CONClJltDJENSIS, October 15, 1987 IFC Announces Bro'Wn Cup Winner By TRACEY PRYLUCK and MEG ROSENBERG Phi Gamma Delta (Fiji) has been declared the winner of this year's Stepllen P. Brown Memorial Tr()phy. This award is presented to the fraternity -6 with the best record in ~ scholarship, intramural r3 athletics, charity and ex- ~ tra-curricular activities. -g . Kappa Sigma and Sigma Chi o: were runners-up. ~ The winner of the Brown Cup ~ is determined through an '§_ elaborate point system. At the money raised and given to charities. The most elaborate calculations are in the category af extracurricular activities. Leadership in major clubs such as Concordiensis, Student Forum, yearbook and varsity athletics receive six points. Snaller leadership roles in the major clubs usually receive three points. Minor clubs and serne committees receive one or two points, depending on theLr ca:lculated Importance. Photo of the Week: Richmond ·esidents try a popular pasttime -tie dyeing. end of each year, the In- terfraternity Council president sends a letter to each of the fraternities with a list of ac- tivities and their poiNt values. Scholarship point values are determined by calculating each fraternity's cumulative average. The winner of Greek Week receives additior~al points, and points are awarded for participation in in- tramurals. Chief Justice Wachtler The secreta·ry of each house must calculate the point values for the members of his house, ' using the prepared chart. Tells of New York State'.s Original Disapproval of U.S. Constitution Service to tlle community (charity) is split into two subdivisions: The number of people involved in community service and the !lumber of hours spent is the first subdivision. The other is the amount of The winner is announced during halftime at the Homecoming football game. Each year, the name of the Stephen P. Brown Award recipient is engraved in the cup, and t1le cup is displayed in the winner's house until the following Homecoming. Continued from page 1 provided adaptations that would adjust to the technology of the future through the 9th Amendment, commonly called the \elastic clause.\ This allowance was perhaps the genius of the U.S. Constitution and has been vital to its 200 year survival. \People give rights to the government, and not vice-versa.\ The chief justice also examined the irony in that, of all of the states, New York was the least willing to sign the Constitution. At the time the WANT TO WRITE FOR NEWS? CALL Becky x4416 Fiona x4166 state was the only truly [)rospering area and dominated overseas importation, so it sent three representatives and l>rottght two of them home a few months later. On his own will, t\lex:ander Hamilton remained, eventually signing the dectl.ment \from the state of Ne-w York\ rather than the staiJdard statement ''for the state of...'' because, in reality, he was representing his own views and not that of the state. Finally, Chief Justice Waclltler concluded his in- formative yet amusing speech b:y stressing that it is always vital to remen1ber that \people give rights to the government, and not vice versa.\ Above all, the rights of the individual must always be defended. Then with a h un1orously abrupt dismissal of a suggestion to run for g<Jvernor, Wachtler dashed off to attend another vital ap- p<JiJltrnent in the Albany area. S ucll is the life of a busy chief justice. Horan Claims Senate Misunderstands Bark's Views Continued from page 1 one to the President.\ Senator Jake Garn, a Republican from Utah, similarly stated in USA TODAY, \I think that the Democrats a11d those of the liberal left have set a frightening precedent in the Senate that should never have been set. They have completely politicized the judicial nomination by grossly sub- verting the whole process and by falling prey to special i:tt- terest groups.'' Both Dean Daniels and Horan fuave observed that the Senate lias subjected Bork to more· thorough scrutiny than they have other candidates in the past, and they agree that an analysis of this depth is im- portant. Artie le 2 Section 2 in the Constituti()n has granted the Senate with the power of inquiry, but this instance shows that the Senate is trying to increase its role. Horan emphasized his con- fidence in Bork because of his \towering intellect\ and his qualifications as a jurist. One stadent in the audience said, however, that \you're playing witfu fire\ when these ad- mirable characteristics are separated from Bork's questionable ideology. Dean Daniels ex:plained that he is not critical of conservative judges as a whole, but finds problems with Bork's in- dividual ideologies. Horan generalized, however, \Conv- servative judges are younger and healthier than liberal judges.\ Finally, Horan predicts that if Bork is turned down, Reagan will merely nominate anothei person who is \just as conservative and not as well-known.'' :freshman Night YLt tJJutcli :J{o([ow Cfuesday 10/20 Join Us For an Ice Cream Smorgasbord You design your own sundae! ... And to make it a sweeter treat, here Is o coupon for 50¢ off. -~-~~~~~,,~,,6,,,,,,.c 0 uponF~~·~~~·~~,,,,,,,.,,,,,, ~ ' i ' . i ~ i - ~ ; ; ; ~ ; ; (jooc£ at tJJutcft. :;{o{fow rr'uescfay, 10/20 Ice Cream SQ (/.. off Smorgas6ord Join 'Us P{ease/ ll I

15, 1987 Page 3 ·- Career. Development· Center Will Move to Old Chapel · By MELISSA·LEVINE Joanne Tobiessen, the director of the Career Development Center. seems O!)timistic about the move. If A~ fall term nears the mid- point the Career Development Center is in tile midst of its busiest time of year. This fall, however, is even more hectic th~ usual, as the CDC prepares fo:r .1ts move to Old Chapel on November 6. • . thEre really is less space in the ; : .new location, which was • . previously occupied by Dining Services, it is not very The opinions of the move are mi~ed. One particular student ·. mti<Jeabie. Although there· will be fewer recruithtg rooms, nl()re space 'Will be available by r~serve through Central Joanne Tobiessen. director of the Career D&velopment Cer:ter. disapproves of the move, claiming that tile CDC would have less space in Old Chapel. Specifically, therE will be fewer . rooms for recruiting: three, as too· opposed to s;x. 'l'he student was · unhappy about the CDC moving at all, but believed that,. if ab- solutely necessary, moving t() the new Co}lege Center $eemeQ. the most logical and convenient. Sc:betluling~ incluqmg the large room that lised to be the ,up- .perlassrnan dining halL This space will be carpeted, and partitions may be set up for privacy. Whether or not this space willbe difficult to reserve cannot be predicted. The three available recruiting rooms have • a . satisfactory amount \Qf waiting space, so that .students Fraternity Rush Functions Chi Psi Oct.18 · 2:00 prn Barbecue and Football at the Girling Center (meet at Chi Psi} Theta Delta Chi Oct. 18 12:30-4:30 pm Barbecue and Ball . Sigma Chi Oct. 18 1:00 prn 13arbecue and Wiffle Ball Kappa Sigma Oct. 20 7:30pm World Series Game#3 and pizza Delta Chi Oct. 15 8:00pm Movies Pizza & Wings All Males Interested In Rush Are Invited ' ' . who are waiting. to be in~ · terviewed do not have to wait in the library. According to Tobiessen, the large number of ·seniors waiting in the small library has discoUraged other st ude~ts from freely utilizing the llterature made available by the CDC. . · The CDC li:brary in the new location will be much larger, with more tables, and therefore a more comfortable seating arrangement. Tohiessen st:resses the fact that the CDC is not only for seniors, but for all students, and the earlier one starts to research and plan for a career, the better. She hopes that the larger library will help . attract more juniors, ·sophOmores, and even fresh- men. _ Tobiessen says that the Ca~eer Development Center tried to get space in the College Center, but was turned down for budgetary reasons . .Suppcisedly, the CDC needs more space than . ls available in the College Center. However, CDC is one of the most used service.s on .eampus; approximately 85 percent of seniors and 50 per- cent of all students used Us .facilities in some way during the1986-87 school year. It seems, as if the CDC belongs in the College Center, a place the the large number of seniors waiting in the small library has discouraged other students from freely :utilizing the literature students frequent, as opposed to some of lhe offices that are not used by such a large number of students Regardless of this, 'I'obiessen seems pleased that th~ CDC is moving to a more eeiltral location than the building it now inhabits between Lamont House and Psi Upsilon. This fall should be very . productive for the. Career Development Center. The eareer counselors are booked with seniors' interviews. Many programs are being planned, including workshops, .career c.bservation days, and on- campus recr:uiting. With regards to the success of the upcoming move, and Joanne Tobiessen .says, \We'll have to wait and see.\ Panhellenic Council Makes Changes In Sorority Rush !FC Less Restrictive With Fraternity Rush By KRIS BURNHAM Fall term .brings many new and exciting things to our campus. One of the most overwhelming, if not mythiCal is the Greek system. and with it, inevitably, rush. The In~ terfraternity Council and the Panhellenic Council are the two governing bodies in the Greek system. It is these two bodies which control the rules and regulations for both male and female rush. For the fraternity system, rush is conducted through series of informal and formal rush functions. A fairly new addition to the system was the advent of dry rush functions. Tim Matthews, vice-president of the Interfraternity Council and rush chairman said, \The idea of dry rush is important because, (if you pledge) you are going to spend three-years with these guys-that's not three years of formal meetings and parties. You will be hanging out, eating, studying, etc. At infol'lilal situations you have the opportunity to meet everyone.\ During the formal dry rush period, fraternities have parties which are open to everyone. Following this period, there are other rush functions which the . fraternities may hold at their own discretion. The In- terfraterriity Council then sets a bid date. The bid date is established in order for all the fraternities to give out their bids at or near the same time. Although it is up to the in~ dividual- house, ·when the bids will be given out, this system lets everyone have equal op- portunity. The giving out of bids prematurely is a rush violation. Such a violation would be taken to the Interfraternity Council which would subsequently rule on the violation and actions would be taken against the fraternity in question . The Panhellenic Council takes a much more active role in siJrority rush. In fact the name given tothe event is itself, PanheUenic Rush. The system has gone through a few changes this year, which Panhellertic president Valerie Barbie says, \ . . were taken for academic reast)ns for tile most part. The academic needs of the sisters and the rushees are very im- portant, and we want to promote a positive feeling during rush. We feel allowing for more study time during rush we will achieve this.\ In fact, this year the first rilSh parties will take place on Sunday, Oct.ober 18. There will be a break between parties and the foll()wing day will lle taken off. Barbie said, \This year we · have ~cbeduled days in between the parties for more time for the rushees and sisters oo reflect on rush.\ Ane>ther change in this year's rush rules concerns a man- dator-y meeting for all those regis.iered for rush. Barbie commented, \During · the meeting, all of tile rush rules will be eKplained. and any questions will be answered. 'I'herEfCJre, everyone will hear everytbing at the same time from the same pe()ple, in the interEst of fairness.\ Tile final change ill rush rules concerns communication between rushees and sisters. Duri11g the pre-rush period and durin~ rush itself, sisters will only be able to greet rushees but exte11sive communication will not lle allowed. Barbie ex- plained, ''This is for the good of rushees. It will all()W them to maintain their objectivity and aid them in making this in- dividl!al decision~'' Rush vioiations during Panhellenic Rush are referred to the presicent of the Panhellenic Coun<:il and Jerri Clark, Partlullenic Advisor. . u~ d_ 60fO_; d'recJlaJJ ~ ~rd. ·. :nu ~ C'J.nter f'\Oil.- =fn. 2,;-\ ·30 ~Jn.~ ~. i .. 10=1.10

l f I l: li il l , . . ;, CONCORDJENSIS, October 15, 1987 Page 3 Career Development Center Will Move to Old Chapel By MELISSA LEVINE As fall term nears the mid- point the Career Development Center is in the midst of its busiest tilne of year. This fall, however, is even Inore hectic than usual, as the CDC prepares for' its rnove to Old Chapel on November 6. The opinions of the move are mixed. One particular student Joa1me Tobiessen, the director of the Career Development Center, seems opthnistic about the move. If there really is less space in the new location, which was previously occupied by Dining Services, it is not very noticeable. Although there will be fewer recruiting rooms, more space wHl be available by reserve through Central who are waiting to be in- terviewed do not have to wait in the library. According to Tobiessen, the large number of seniors waiting in the small library has discouraged other students from freely utilizing the literature made available by the CDC. The CDC library in the new location will be much larger . , w1th more tables, and there~ore a more comfortable seating arraHgement. To hi essen stresses the fact that the CDC is not only for seniors, but for aH students, and the earlier one starts to research and plan for a career, the better. She hopes that the larger library will help attract more juniors, sophomores, and even fresh- men. To biessen says that the Career Development Center tried to get space in the College E · Center, but was turned down for <t budgetary reasons. Supposedly, · E the CDC needs more space than .9 is available in the College o Center. However, CDC is one of 0. the most used services on £ campus; approximately 85 0 percent of seniors aHd 50 per- o cent of all students used its .c: c. facilities in some way during Joanne Tobiessen, director of the Career Development Ceii1ei. the 1986-87 school year. It seems as if the CDC belongs in the College Center, a place the disapproves of the move, claiming that the CDC would have less space in Old Chapel. Specifically, :there will be fewer rooms for recrlliting: three, as • opposed to six. The student was unhappy about the CDC moving at all, but believed that, if ab- solutely necessary, moving to the new CoJlege Center seemed the most logical and convenient. Scheduling, including the large room that used to be the up- perlassman dining hall. This space will be carpeted, and partitions may be set up for privacy. Whether ur not this space will be difficult to reserve cannot be predicted. The three available recruiting rooms have a satisfactory amount of waiting space, so that students Fraternity Rush Functions Chi Psi Oct.18 2:00pm Barbecue and Football at the Girling Center (meet at Chi Psi) Theta Delta Chi Oct. 18 12:30-4:30 pm Barbecue and Ball Sigma Chi Oct. 18 1:00pm Barbecue and Wiffle Ball Kappa Sigma Oct. 20 7:30pm World Series Game#3 and pizza Delta Chi Oct. 15 8:00pm Movies Pizza & Wings All Males Interested In Rush Are Invited the large number of seniors waiting in the small library has discouraged other students from freely utilizing the literature students frequent, as opposed to some of the offices that are not used by such a large number of students Regardless of this, To biessen seems pleased that the CDC is moving to a more central location than the building it now inhabits between Lamont House and Psi Upsilon. This fall should be very productive for the Career Development Center. The career counselors are booked with seniors' interviews. Many programs are being planned, including workshops, career observation days, and on- campus recruiting. With regards to the success of the upcoming move, and Joanne Tobiessen says, \We'll have to wait and see.\ Air Bands. Singers, Dancers, Tumblers, : . Up Syr.c, Poetry Reading, Sta~d Up Comics, Anything Entertaining WHY NOTT??? Show Us What You've Got In The ..• FIRST ANNUAL CAMPUS WIDE TALENT SHOW ON NOV. liN MEMORI:AL CHAPEL faculty & administration •. j~dgesH! Deadline to Enter Oct. 20th .·· Acts should be 3-5 minutes long :· .· :PRIZES: $100.00 Cash-1st Prize 2 Tickets 1o Proctors Or Movie Tickets For YourWhole Act ' At Crossgates-· .2nd Prize Bottle of Champagne--3rd Prize Prizes For All . , Contact Mic~elle At -~209 Or Don At 6980 For Entry Info. . · . . :. • . = · . • .Sponsore4 .By The Mountebanks I . . .· . . . •. . . . -~ ,• ·- . . . . :; ; . ' -.·. ·.· . . ·:.;::: .. ·-:: ~:=:: .. :· ·:--= .• < -';: ~-- :::. :. t .. ·=·. Jerri Clark. Panhellenic advisor. Panhellenic Council Makes Changes In Sorority Rush IFC Less R·estrictive With Fraternity Rush By KRIS BURNHAM Fall term brings many new aad ex:citing things to our campus. One of the most overwhelming, if not mytll.ic:al is the Greek systern. and with it, inevitably, rush. The [n- terfrateFnity Council and tlle Panhellenic Council are the t'IIV() governing bodies in the GreEk. system. It is these two bo<li~s which control the rules a11d regulations for both male a11d female rush. For the fraternity system, rush is conducted thr()ugh series of informal and form:al rush functions. A fairly new addition to the system was tile advent of dry rush functi~ns. Tim Matthews, vice-president of the Interfraternity Collllcil and rush chairman said, \T.i!e idea of dry rush is important because, (if you pledge) you a.re going to spend three-years '~;VL th these guys-that's- not thrEe years of formal meetings and parties. You will be hanging out, eating, studying, etc. At infonnal situations you llave the opportunity to meet everyone.\ During the formal dry ru:sh period, fraternities have pa1ti.es which are open to everyv11e. Following this period, there are other rush functions which tile fraternities may hold at tlleir own discretion. The [n- terfraternity Council then sets a bid date. The bid date is established in order for all tl!e fraternities to give out tlleir bids at or near the same time. Although it is up to the in- dividual house, ·when the lli<ls will be given out, this sysiem lets everyone have equal ()p- portunity. The giving out of bi-ds prematurely is a rush violation. Such a violation would be tak-en to the Interfraternity Coun~il which would subsequently rule on the violation and acti()ns would be taken against the fraternity in question. The Panhellenic O!)uncil tak.es a much more active role in sorority rush. In fact the name given to the event is itself, Panhellenic Rush. The system has gone through a few changes this year, which Panhellenic president Valerie Barbie says, \ . . were taken for academic reasons for the most part. The academic needs of the sisters and the rushees are very im- portant, and we want to promote a positive feeling during rush. We feel allowing for more study time during rush we will achieve this.\ In fact, this year the first rush parties will take place on Sunday, October 18. There will be a break between parties and the following day will be taken off. Barbie said, \This year we have scheduled days in between the parties for more time for the rushees and sisters to reflect on rush.\ Another change in this year's rush rules concerns a man- datory meeting for all those registered for rush. Barbie commented, \During the meeting, all of the rush rules will be explained, and any questions will be answered. Therefore, everyone will hear everything at the same time from the same people, in the interest of fairness.'' The final change in rush rules concerns communication between rushees and sisters. During the pre-rush period and during rush itself, sisters will only be able to greet rushees but extensive C(mllllunication will not be allowed. Barbie ex- plained, \This is for the good of rushees. It will allow them to maintain their objectivity and aid them in making this in- dividual decision.\ Rush violations during Panhellenic Rush are referred to the- president of the Panhellenic Council and Jerri Clark. Panhellenic Advisor. UacL 6~ <:\1recJimJ ~ fr'(t '\1fiV GX~ e.tnter f'\01.- =fri. ~-4 :ao ~Jo.- .& •. :J1\S. 7- •o=oo

Pag~ 4 CONCORDlENSlS, October 15, . 1987 Talk- of The Town· Col:lcrJ.rdy recently asked: ''What~ should be done., with the old booksto,re.?\ \Turn it into a quiet study ares because the library is very social.\ Beth Goodsmith '8~ \I think they should turn it into an arena and have jello wrestling matches every Saturday night.'' Philip Mann '88 \It could be used as a bazaar where local merchants could bring items to sell, like tie dyes, jewelry or records.\ Ruth Cohen '89 Senior Trauma By EMILY SOOHOO Phase I Everybody say cheese. That's what we used to say to the school photographers in elementary school and then again in junior high~ Photographers hired to Union College use a much more sophisticated technique. That innocent man from Merim Studios said, \say peach,\ and blasted a shocking flash in my face which totally confused my nervous system. After si::x peaches accompanied by si:x bright flashes, I walked out of the room into a ne1N, blue-spotted world. Lynn was scheduled to lle photographed next. However, she did not. keep to her ap· pointment and signed up for tile next afternoon. After a moment of careful contemplation, she realized that after attendiag class, she might wrinkle her blouse -in the process ()f- notetaking. It was also im- portant that she not I:Je photographed too soon affEl\' lunch. You can't hide anything from a Nikcm lens, especially- recently acquired calories in the cheeks. And it was · of essential importance that h,er' senior portrait showed 110 flyaway hairs as a result of postlunch gossip in the bree2y entrance of Carnegie. Ly1111 decided that Thursday morni11g would actually be the ffi@St opportune time to display mer' phyical attributes to t1!e carrier a. It was Dana's turn next.. Being the subject of a photographer is much m()re complex than one would expeoet. Just ask Dana or Christie Brinkley. Dana was utterly confused by the various pose~ and head turns, and whethel.\' t<J smile or be serious. 'rh~ photographer was one who was more perceptive and creative than an average elementary school photographer. lie manuveured Dana's head in a most professional manner. He quickly darted to the camera, not giving Dana a chance to move, looked at her and told her to say \whiskey.\ There are other com· pU.cations to taking your seni()r picture. When it came to eap and gown, Wendy absolutely refused. That was one thing she couldn't deal with. Can you imagine, in your worst night- mare, putting on that cap and ruining your hairs What a painful thought of destroying hours of effort in front of the mirror. But that really is the truth. No one will ever see Wendy in a cap and gown. Y'()U will recognize her as the bareheaded one during Pomp and Circumstance in June. Phase II Everday I walk to Carnegie to check mail; or is it to check lack of mail'? I've been here almost five weeks and what do I have to show for it? Maybe a card from my aunt, a postcar-d from my best friend who at- tends school at SUNY Albany, and about twelve pounds worth of junk mail. I don't know why I bother checking mail anyway. To top it off, I have one of those new boxes which replaced the old ones which used to have the little window. After surviving three years of classes and winter elasses in the winter at Union College; I still can't get my mailbox open. This is definitely more than enough whining about my mailbox and me. Today was different. I had this sensation of abundance in my mailbox. As I approached Carnegie, I could feel this magnetic attraction luring me to the mailbox. Today I was going to get mail. After only tw() attempts at dialing tbree numbers, left-right left, in- stead of three letters, right--left-right; the small door of my mailbox opened. I ex- pected to find rays of bnlliant Get Involved! Social Committee Meeting· Monday, October 19 7:30pm College Center 4th Floor Lounge light leaping out of the tiny aperture. However, there were only a couple of beams of light weaving between the contents of the silver, metal box. A feeling suddenly over. whelmed me as I pulled the envelopes out and shuffled through them quickly, reading the return addresses. The joy of finally receiving something more substantial than a movie schedule or calendar of coming events at Union College soon dissipated after realizing that the envelope from Merin Studios had at last arrived. With a deep breath and a moment's hesitation, I carefully opened the small envelope. Enclosed were six wallet sized proofs of my senior portrait. So this was the result of days and hours of anxiety and preparation. The long-term outcome is actu.ally an ad· ditional four dollars and several more weeks, anticipating the second sitting with the man from Merin Studios. \The Nott should be used as a museum ror C()llege artifacts and memorabilia. Some of the college valuablE;Js Hk:e artwork and historical documents should be displayed there.\ i\ndy Albert '89 ' ''Elley should make it a senior re..creation area with a pool, pi11g pong, a large screen TV alld a bar.\ Larry S~bachter '88 Women's Studi:es Film Series The ·Big Picture: Women and Men i·,n Other Cultures The Return of Martin Guerre The film revol'.tes around tfle suspenseful unraveling of the identity ()f, Martin Gue •. ...::, who has disappeared as a young hus!Danc:i and res urn es his marriage 9 years later. The apparent chal)ges that he has undergone i.n his years away convince his unciH1hat he is an impostor. A trial is demanded and not until the very last minute of a tension- filled courtroom sequence is the situation resolved. The film rec()nstructs 16th century France and reveals much about human nature an<! the timeless elusiveness of truth. Winner of 3 French Academy Awar.ds, American Academy Award Nominee TUESDAY, OCTOBER 20 7-9 PM SOCIAL SCIENCE 016 Discussion and RefrEshments to follow 1or Interested Students

,. CONCORDIENSJS, October 15, 1987 PageS FEATURES Memories of Friends BySUESCHAFFER Tea, hot tea: Chats, long chats. Smiles,. wide sJ;Ililes, Friends; good friends. Upon being asked to think about what college life is reaUy like, many images float into view. These include: crowded fraternity houses, dinner at West, class registration, homecoming football games, nights in the library, Slapshots and Rupsis, hours of lab, Career Counseling Center, hangovers and headaches. Recently, Channel 6 News visited the ROTC - By TRA~EY PRYLUCK Union College students enrolled in the ROTC program do not receive credit for courses, required of all ROTC student~, taken · at RPI. According to Dean Weiner and Dean Daniels, this is not a discriminatory policy against the military. ROTC courses simp1y \are not seen as a part of the general educaticn mission at Union College.\ The college has not failed to facilitate the ROTC in its efforts to recruit students, nor has 1t set Up roadblocks. The ROTC is free to set up booths at programs such as activities and career fairs. A booth was also available at ·registration this year. ROTC students can no.:w request to have their courses listed on their academic transcriipts. While • these courses do not receive credit and do not cotint toward a student's cumulative average, they will be displayed so that graduate schools can see the additional· courses in which ROTC students were enroUed. Deans Daniels and Weiner campus in search .of a way to depict .college life to the Schenectady community. They could have focused on any of the preceeding images. They were, however, .drawn to a place that they would. soon find out to be · the epitorny of college life. This place contains the fundamental basis ofthe preceeding images. What they found was a .group of good friends. With Homecoming Weekend behind us and the presence of so many alumni, one is reminded of how .important the friend- ships th.at are found in college really are. One's .friends con• tribute to the whole being of that person; they are constantly teaching each ather and they share · an infinite amount. Friends are the basis :of one's personal growth at·college. So when Channel 6 News stumbled upon Smith House, they found this basis of college life. The residents were sharing tea and their Umughts. These residents were asked to aid in illustrating what college life is really like and to just act normal. Of course, when one gets the opportunity to be on television _all statutes of nor- malcy cease to exist. Hence, • . . , hyperness sets in. Smith House, ·c r· d. t·? . the only coed coop on campus . · · . • · • · . . had much to offer the reporter. . . e . . . I· . a Besides bubbling personalities · . and their vast knowledge of · college life, their environment housed both a site of studies and a social center. Smith House is a residence where work is done and .parties are had. Beware further explained that Union College win nQt apprQve any course taken at one of the other colleges participating in the Consortium if it is not consistent with Union's academic mission · of a liberal arts education. The Liberal Learning program is based on this mission, and students .enrolled in courses in · education or communications, as well as ROTC, at other colleges in the Consortium do not receive credit for their courses because they are not enrolled in classes which are consistent with Union's liberal arts program. As Dean Weiner stated, \Universities and Colleges are centers of learning, not preparation for the military.\ Union tries to lle fair to students · who see ROTC as an op- .portunity to finance their ecucati()n in preparation for a career in the military, without creating conflicts. Deans Weiner and D~niels think that Union College has reached \a delicate compromise\ between · the ROTC and the college's mission, a balance which they hope to maintain. Schenectady, one must be mentally prepared before witnessing life at college. The news team took a close look at Ms. Wendy Endress and Ms. Geri Lynn Mackey's room and personal lives. The com- munity was s11re to be dazzled by Ms. Mackey's collection of stuffed animals and Ms. En- dress' studying abilities. As the reporters filmed the house they were aware of the deep sense of comraderie that existed. This, too must have dazzled the viewers, for shortly thereafter Ms. Mackey received an admiring letter requesting a date. Ms. Mackey has already planned for a weeltend away at the proposed meeting time, but her close -friends androommatessacrificed their own time in order to meet with this anonymousadmirer. The news team, unaware that they had stumpled upon the basis of college life, attempted to focus on Ms. Mackey's animals. However, it is the friendships made and shared that contribute to college life. It is guaranteed that years from Visiting Professor Garber of the Political Science Dept. A Wa-rm Welcome By PETER KATZ Union-\ABigger and Better U ,\ was this year's Homecoming slogan, referring to the new College Center and Alwnni Gym. However, it also applies to the Political Science Department; in particular, Visiting Pr-ofessor Judith Garber. What makes Professor Garber so special is that she is the first full-time female political science professor at Union in this decade. Professor Garber receiv~d ller MA at the University of Marylalld, and is currently working on ller Ph.D.,. also at Maryland. She has been teaching part-time since 1983, but this is her first full-time endeavor. Professor Garber will be at Union for the next two years teaching American P()litics and Political Theery. Right now, however, Pr~fessor Garber is thinking abo11t broadening her focus. to Canadian politics where the issues are similar to American politics but solved in a different manner. distinguished in their fields and are wonderful,\ Professo-r Garber added. Learning about lind un· derstanding citizenship is ut· most to her. She believes an individual has a responsibility to the community in general and not just to himself. One maj()r difference bet;. ween Professor Garber and the rest of the political science staff is that she is a woman. In the past, women have not taken to the political sciences. \Until recently, not many · women have received degrees in political science. Therefore talented W()men are hard to come by,\ Professor Charles Tidmarch, chairman of the political science department said. He went on to say that the number of women in the field is on the rise, and hopefully new aspiring talents will emerge. -- The Rat Welcomes: now when vou reflect on college life your ·strongest memories will be of times spent with She said that although the position wasll't tenure tract, it still was a good opportunity. \Union has a good reputation; it is excelle11t experience for me. Besides, my colleagues are_ A second major reason why not many women have taught political science at Union (according to Professor Tid- march) is thl:!t there is very little turnover fer any jobs. Since 1970, only two tenure trad positions have opened up. Both were in the same field-m- ternational relations. 'It is because of this lack of openings and the scarcity of qualified women that Professor Garber is the first female professor in the '80s. To, lhe 21 Club- LBUD LIGHT. I - Friday October 16th. 9 pm.··1 am. T-shirt & Poster Give-Aways friends. The Cerebral Pal~y Center for the l)isabled welc~mes all students back to Union this fall. While y<..u have recently been getting ready for midterms, the Center has been busy preparing for the Annual Phonathon. We need your help. Can you, or you and a group of friends, join us for an evening to make phone calls in support of the Center? We will provide you with a brief training session and a light supper. The pledges you secure ovt-'1' the phone will go toward ll~lpin_g the Center serve the disabled. The Phonathonis scheduled for September 14thlhrough November 24th, Monday through Thursday. A-shift runs from{) to 9 pm. The Center is located at 314 South Mamling Blvd. right offthe bliS line. Please call the foundation Office, 45S\881 0, if yoll can help out. The Cerebral Palsy Center for the Disabled provides. services lo indviduals with disabilities of all ages. Here people strive to attain their highest potential through scho<Jl, vocationa~ and thcrapc:utic programs. Professor Garber feels at hQme here. \Union acts more like a big school than a small school because thelle isn't a tremendous work load placed on the staff,\ she remarked. \Also I don't feel isolated because I'm a woman. Tbete are many women in other fields that I have gotten to know. Tbe interaction is great.'' Professor Tidrnarch con- cluded that Professor Garber is superbly equipped for the j,ob and he is extremely happy to have her. She commented, \Tile students here are terrific. Tb.ey are the .politest I've ever had the pleasure of teaching. Hopefully I can stay at Union for a long time.\ Cabaret (first of the year) Thursday, October 15th 10:00 pm College Center- Free Admission Act 1: Dave Provost with Spe·cial Guests Dean and Mrs. Alford Act II: Becky Thayer

Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS, 'October 15, 1987 FEATURES Library Etiquette· 8 :r:: ~ A stuaant wo~ing? A . · entity. By MARJORm HOFFER walltoo around· talking to my Every night of my freshman year, my ·suitemate w.ould shower, do her hair, ber ~eup and put on an angora dress. She was not ·off to a party; rather the libraryu- where she would remain until . three in the morning. I spent a lot of my time freshn man year in the· library too. However, instead of studying I ·-. new.found friends. w~ then gossippedabout other rle'Wfound frie11d$ • .I bad the best tlin.e and the worst grades. It g()t to the pointtha:t I was ·going tol!ave to go t~the library and stm!ly. 'I'his was a problem, for I realized I was :miSsing an important skill- the ability to concentrate. Yet if I was ever going to graduate with a grade point aver\a;ge that was respectable, I had. tiJ learn. The Schaeffer search for silence is a difficult one. I have tried studying in typing rooms,. and nooks and crannies such as the third floor, but no place in ·the library is noise-proof. A group of people trying to study will inevitably infest my littl~ hide-a-way; However, the wqrst offenders of aU are the ones who don't feel like studying and .kill time talking to their :friends. ·Usually, when I 11ave a huge test 1 midterm, or final ·coming up, I l~ave the evil temptations of my rooro (i,e,: the pho11e) and go to the. library.: Then, I search for fifteen. mmut~s to .find an isolated little carol to do my work. All of a .sudden, I am . listening to a recount of who slept with . wbo last Friday night. Now, I have a dilemma, should I glare at these people and hope. they take the hint that they are ruining :my·.attempts at concentrating? Or, should · I . politely ask them. to please be a llttle quieter? If I do that, tllen they'll pJ'obably .gossip about me. When and if they take· the hint and lower their voi~es, it's even. worse,. because- I · can HEAR them talking bqt I can't quite make out about who and wh~t. Other annoymg people are the ones who wear Walk- mans w.hile they study and blast the music 'So loudly that you can hear it three aiSles down. 8(}, I revert to plan B. That is- I put my :books at thtee desks, an~ when one area gets noisy, I just go to the next 'f>ne. During finals, J)eDple hate ·me because we aU kQow how difficult it ·is to obtain ONE desk; 11!t alone three. ·· Even. plan B hw; some im- perfections. for it does not prevent m.e from doing thing$ like taking-my soda breaks,. and smuggUng in the popcorn (after aU; we dCJ need food for; thought), It al$o does not stop. me from falling asleep when the library is bot. No matter how much trouble I ha\Te falll11g asleep ,at night, I can a1waY.S manage to get a heads~rt on my eight hOUrs in the libttu;y. Tben1 I wake .!JP and. have weird' lines on illy <fface from falli,ng asleep on my boo~s. . Sometimes when I am trying really bard t<q!Jrasp an idea and '1 hear those ann()ying people discussing bow to highlight hair, I get so annoyed and I think back .tQ high ·school when· the librarians ·used· to k.ick students o'Qt of the library ·for talking. I am very glad th~t the librarians do· not do that here, · bec1,1.use oncemytests are 'Qver, I revert back to being the .ln~ stigator of stares. -For Pm usually the one gossiping and talking about )Jaircuts any\Vay~ A Day in The Life National Awaren·ess ·collegiate Alcohol W,eek October- 19-25 By EZRA SHERMAN President MoiTi.s officially opened the Campus Center on Thursday, September 17. You may have noted that the Center is no longer called \Carnegie\ since Mr. and Mrs. Camegie did not help in funding the renovation. The search is. now on to find a person willing to give a few million dollars to have a building named after him. Recently, a group of student activists have tried to get the student body to con- tribute enough money to buy the College Center and rename it the Student Center. Union's alumni and the Board of Directors have responded with a ·fund-raising campaign of their own with the goal of renaming it the \V.I.P. Cen- ter.\ . By and large, students are thrilled with the new facilities in the Campus Center. However, paramedics were seen last Saturday in the Center cafeteria treating three students for hyp<~thermta. The st:udents . were evidently eating brunch when they succumbed to the frigid tempe.ratures i11 the. dining room. When qm~tioned about the incident, Ja11et Grey· said with uncharacteristic abmptness, \It's those damn tre~, they block out all of the slllllight.\ However, tllie college is not planning to cut tltem down as they add to the atmospb.ere of . the ~ing hall. All of the trees did n(Jt get off so easily though. In con- strll~ting a fire a-ccess mad, Paulph Plotz, a grounds worker at Uni{)n, mistakenly c11t down the two Ginko trees. Be was overwhehned by the fwnes .and was rushed to a nearby hiOspital. Meanwhile, the Ginkolumber is . beillg ripped into ve11eer to panel President Morris.' l'eading room. Professor Frolil!be, said to be in a state of sh()Ck, was seen placing flowers on the oozing stwnps. Th11rsday's lunch: squirrel fricasse ~ Thlll'sday's dinner: tbe ~bove reheated Campuses around the nation are preparing for the fourth annual National Collegiate Alcohol Awareness Week (October 19-25}. Passing the Equivalence Aptitude Test (E.A.T.) is a key measure of how much students know about alcohol consumption. To pass the E .A;T. you must know this simple but crucial formula: the most common, servings of beer (12 ounces)., wine (5 ounces) and distilled spirits ~P/4 ounc~s ~ contain equal amounts of alcohol. Far too many accidents are caused by young people who get behind the wheel or a car thinking \I'm fine. I only had a few beers.\ Such misin- formation is all too often deadly. Maybe that's why fiO percent of all driving fatalities are caused by drunk drivers. These corrunon sense college survival tips may also 'Save lives during the school year: 1. Don't drive after your next tailgate party or happy .hour - whether you've had beer, wine or distilled spirits. One American dies .in an alcohol~ related traffic accident every 35 · minutes. Better walk an extra tnlle or spend the night at a friend's than risk taking lives. on the road. 2. Eat something - never drink oa an empty stomach. Eat before you ~o to a party, eat while y()u're there. Solid food like cheese can slow down the alcohol absorption rate. If you're throwing a party, serve lots of munchies ·and plenty c>f mixers. _ 3. Don~t be pushe,d into drinking more th;m you can · handle and don~t pressure your friends to keep up with yoll. Everyone has an individual· tolerance. Let your friends pace themselves. . · 4; Keep a watcllful eye: Cocktails should c~ntain 110 more than 1% ounces of distilled spirits. Wine is commonly no more than .a 5 ounce serving and · a typical serving of beer is 12 ounces. lf you're mixing your own drink use a shot glass to measure the liquor. · 5. Know yourself and your mood. If you rarely drink, chugging a few beers will affect you faster than it would affect someone who is accustomed to drinking. Your .mood can· also influence the way y'0\1 rea~t to a • drink. If_ you're depressed over a test, drinlting will depress you. further. · · · Here are some common and dangerous mytlls about alcohol that sh()ul(J be dispelled: · Myth Numbel' 1. You can pace yourself by switching from liquor to beer or wine. Wrong. You ,consume the same amount of alcohol--and can get just as drunk-from oommon servings ~>£ beer, wine ~nd liquor. · Myth Nwnber 2. Coffee can sober you 11p if you're drunk. Wrong again. Coffee may wake\ you up, but it won't sober you up~ If ,YOU drink one ioo many and tfien have a cup of coffee and drive, you are just a wide-. awake drunk-behind the wheel. Also, taking·acold shower won't do- the trick either. That's only going to make you a wet drunk. it · - •••••••••~~•-.••••••••••••••••••••••t~a•••••-••••••.,•••••e•••••••••••••*••e•••t~~t· t•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••a•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••\•!••••••••••··~'•-.••••••••••'•••e•••••••••••••••••••••••••~••••••••o•• .. •••••••••~• •••••••••••••~~•••••••.,••••••••••••-••••-• - · . , : : . -: i s d · · - Ima~ine :paying over $1,000 more .per i i tu· en t year in tuition to cover the costs offset by • ~ I l Union'.s Annual Fund... i 1 Phone- a- thon 1 November 8-9 : : . . . . . . . . . • llere\s your opportunity to participate in the Altnual .fund! Join tlte Student Phonathon, November 8-9~ Your calls to alumni will raise pledges for the Annual Fund, :a11d help us reach our goals for tb~ 76tlt A.mmal Fund. : ~ This money is applied directly into the i budget where .needed, to finan(!e student • With.out gifts from the Annual Fund, t11itio:tt would need to be raised tlttese operating costs. ..,. : services, campus maintenance, library and : lab acquisitions, faculty costs,. and other i operating expenses of the Co-llege. • For the 76th Annual Fund, 1'987-1988, : our gmals are $2.5 million ~verall, with : $1.6 111illion from our alumni. Last year, 1 the 7Stlli Annual Fund raised $2,3(;9,098 .. The Anmal Fund, comprised of .gifts from aluQJ.ni; pare'Ilts, frie:gds, Business, Foundation and .Corporation gifts, represents over . 1Dfo- · ilf the coll:.ege's operatinS! J>ude:et • ~-~---------ri------··---·-··--·-·--·····--·-\·-·--·~~~~-~~.~~-~~~~.~~~.!~~t~~~~~~e~n~t:·. ·-----~~-~~~~~~~~~~:~ •• ~M•N•~~~~~ .. ~-0~-~~~~~~~J

CQNCO'R.DIENSJS, October .15, 1987 Dutch Holiow Restaurant .. • • • tnvttes you to a Wine and Cheese ' . Tasting Party featuring sp~ecial non-alcoholic J wine and malt bever.ages Thursday 10/22, 4-6 pm In consideration of . . Alcohol .Awareness Week Oct. 19-23 Before you choose along distance service, take a close look You may be thinking about choosing one ofthe newer carriers over AT&T in order to save money. Think again. Since ]al)l.lary 1987, AT&T'S rates have dropped more than 15% for direct -dialed out -of- state calls. So they're lower than you probably realize. For infor- mation on specific rates, you can call us at 1 800 222-0300. . · And AT&T offers dear long distance connections, operator assistance, 24\'hour customer service, and immediate credit for wrong numbers. Plus, you can use AT&T to call from anywhere to anywhere, all over -· the United States and to over 250 countries. You might be surprised at how good'a value AT&T really is. So before yqu choose a lorig distance company, pick up the phone. . ATa.T The right choice. Page 7 Nelson•s Book: Store ·173 Fay Street,· Scenectndy ·Open: Monday thru Saturday 1 t am - 5:30 pm Thursday evenings 'til9 pm Career Development Center Companies with interview slots still available. Sign-up is on first-come, first- served basis. Open sign-ups will be held on Tuesday, October 20 from 8 am- 4 pm at the CDC. · Connecticut Department ot Transportation inlel'1liew date 10/30, BS in CE Grilfiss 485th interview date 10129, BS/MS in EE International Paper interview date ·1 0/29 BSinME,EE CECOS International interview date 11/4 CS in CH, 81, CE Coro Foundation interview date 11/4, any major James River Graphics interview date 11/5, BS/MS in ME PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY NOTICE: Are you an underclassman with questions about classes? What courses do I need for my major, when should · I take them and with whom? To assist you, this Friday in the College Center Pub the. officers of Pre-Health will be available at 12:30pm. Certainly, please come if you are having problems with present classes, or if you would just like to know more about the Pre-Health Society. By all means bring comments and suggestions. Join Us!!! Why Nott? Theatre Fest '8 7 presents Dinner Theatre featuring The Bald Soprano by Eugene lonesco On October 30 & 31 at 5:00 8c 7:30 pm in the Upperclassmen's Dining Hall . All ore Welcome! Cost: 1 Meal Card Punch or $10.00 . Theatre: It's Nott Just for Breakfast Anymore ~------------~.

Page -8 CONCORDlENSfS, OctlJber 15 1981 ::! IN1,ERNATION.AL. FEATURES· . Fellini Film It's a Small World After All By AIME SIMON Building on the ac- complishments of the Neo- realistic filmmakers of the l!l40's and early 19~'s, Federico Fellini became the first of the \poet-phHosophePs\ o~ the cont~rnporary cinema. Fellini's importance as a flimmaker lies in his ability to combine ac- tuality and fantasy. The plots and settings in his films are realistic as Fellini attempts to deal with the extraordinary withill the ordinary, while the poetry and eKpressionism of his style add dramatically to the philosophical explorations in the films. In addition, he uses visual symbols to reveal the intemallives of his characters. Fellini has also had a significant influence on acting technique by evoking highly stylized perlonnances from his actors. Although believable within the framework, his actors perform in poetic fashion creating that unique fusion between the reality and the dream of life. \La Strada\ (19ij4) was the first of'Fellini's films to receive world wide acclaim; \LaStrada\, meaning the road, or symbolically one's life's journey, conveys the depressing picture of man's isolation and. his tendency to destroy all · · patheways to his salvation. FellinPs use of visual sym- bolism can be seen in his selection: of the beach as the setting for the beginning and the end of the film, symbolizing the beginning and ending ·Of life. Furthermore, the difficult, highly stylized role of Gelsomina was created. Gelsomina has little dialogue and communicates .solely through movement .gesture and facial expression, like a mime. · In the Albany area, while it is difficult to gain access to contemporary foreign films, it is virtually impossible to view international classics. Please take advantage of the op- portunity to see \La Strada\ Wednesday; October 21 at 7:30 in the College Center auditorium. By CIJRIS'iiARTM<\NN ... .And so.it'\Vas.decidedtllat a float should be built,. a float to end all floats, one that ~ould proclaim to .the rest of the campus tbat tile. Internatonal House and the ISU were here to stay. So the~ came together, Italians, Cllillese, Gerrna11s, French, Br:itid1, Thai,. G11ee'k, and Ainerka~.n.s and they for- mulated a plo:~n. Oh what a wonderful pl~n it was, so the. plan was ~pproved, and the tasks were ~ssigned, a11d all seemed well. The Ameti<!ans were tD' !build the Globe, an{! so they did~ !lsi11g thier advanced technol();~Y to produce a. fL.ne globe made ·of chicken wire. 'Jhe globe was then stuffed by all memJ)ers of the house, 'Each . contributing their own version of the v;orld, in order to be precise. The result, I thi.nksh.owed us all that we hold d:iffe-:rent views of wltat the ·world Sh()Uld look:. like. OUr master .plan to constmct a 'version of tile world became a mess, I thlnk we all leaJ.\Jled a bit of a lessoD by our wasted efforts, thai if every4lneat- tempts to assert their News of Haiti By NADIA DUVILAmE ~en I heard on the news early Friday morning that Jean-Claude Duvalier was spoken of as the \ex-president of Haiti,\ I thought that at last something new is in motion. That fateful day, February 7, 1987, bad evoked relief and hope in most Haitians. We, as a people, thought that Haiti had eKpe~ienced a \second in- deper~dence.\ Twenty-nine years of oppression, misery, financial disaster had come to an en.d. Is it so? No, it did not take us long to realize the irony of our situation. · It has been nearly two years now since Jean Claude DuvaUer (Baby Doc) left Haiti in exile. For nearly twenty-nine years Fran~ois Duvalier (Papa Doc) and Jean Claude Ouvalier had both respectively ruled Haiti, along with their \tontons rnaCButes\ (their personal militia of terror). They were not elected to power, but Francois Duvalier had found a way to seize power, and had main- tained it until he could pass it on to his son before his death. 'Tile two Duvaliers did not rule Haiti differently. We had no . cjvil rights, no free press. Their regime was one of terror, brutality, ruthless executions~ and personal gain by public officials. Poverty reigned in the population. (Haiti is the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere.) Although many promises were made, unem- ployment was never resolved efficiently either. The illiteracy rate continued to increase. The economy was barely existing. Words were said that Jean Claude Duvalier had most of the country's cash stashed--in his Swiss account. These were the conditions that Haiti was left in. Did much change after Baby Doc left? Did his leaving bring us new time? I will not say so. Before Jean Claude left, he formed a junta in control of the nation, and at its head is the general, Henry Hamphy. This change of power was swiftly executed with the help of the U.S. Government. Since the country has been in a state of emergency, riots and boycotts have increased to a higher rate than they had been before February 1986. Schools have not lleen fllDCti()ning normally a:s they sh()ul<l . Students anill instructors have taken to the streets in pr()test. The commerdal sect()r is suffering; ·tllere is a large scale depression 111 the country. Constant rid£ are searing · shopowners. 'Tber is wide scale protestation most of the time. The reas()n fClL\ that is that the people wallt to have · presidential elections. Since 1986, electiorns (electoral and. presidential) have bee11 pFomised. T11e junta ha<l set dates many times, butthey had always been cancelled. The next date pr()jected for elec- tions (Nove!Qber 29, 1987) has been cancelled. f~r a later date. Along withthese protests, many deaths are ·inocm·red. In fact, many are folllld dead daily during the riots. The maj~rity. have been rnllrdered. In all, .the country has not seen ~nythiJtg new as of yet. The government is more talk: than before, the populati<m is impatient artd1ensionis 1ising. How long will that go on? I cannot say; but I can say my country's problems will take a long time .t.eforeany S()]lltioll can be fo1.U1d'aad implemented. IS'll Semi-!forma[ ![a{{ 1\f,ception 'Iliursiay, _October 15 Mi{ano.Lounge 7:30pm :Foreign St.udents· wi{[ share tfieir .cu[ture ~fresliments wi{[ 6e servea dominance over the world -- without compromise, it will j~st become one big mess. So, our first plan was scrapped, and we were sad because soon it would be time. · for the parade, and. we wod<i have no float. Then along came an older; wiser person who ba{} traveled the world and' he m- derstood our problem. He came with a hammer in his hand (a11d beer on his breath) and stru!!k down the original float ,because it represented disunity, and ·lle £~reed us to work together atld build a new float. This time <Jar paln was simple, we don't have much time so let's ma~e something easy and get it d()n~. So on into the night we worked, and when it was late, all reti.l'ed to rest (or so we said) and w<~r:k was adjourned untH the !le:xt d:ay. ' The next day was the day or tbe parade, and after a moming of effort, we finished the float . minutes bef.ore the parade was ~ to start. So out journey began, on foot because we had been unable to hire a·cart; we joinE;Jd the ·Parade and set out into the world of homecoming. Although we were weary, our ·efforts were rewarded as the judges voted ours 1 the Most Original Float. As I look back ·on the float, · and what it represented, I will remember the satisfaction I (and I think we aU felt) on having worked together as a group of people from .different cultures and created something whi.ch we all could appreciate. I also could . nothelp but remember the Biblical story of \The Tower of Babel,\ and hovv we oyercarnewhere some many Qthets had failed, bringing people from all ever the world together to accomplish one goal. · World Food Day The only real \experts\ on hunger are hungry people and their hunger is caused by poverty .. On World Food Day, 1987, the agencies of the Interfaith Hunger Appeal (iliA) ask you to reftect on tllis statement and support ac- tivities that enable people to lift themselves from the conditioll£! that deny them access to food. The problem of hunger CaJ')[)Ot be solved by giving away foCJd,· although that may also be necessary in times ()f emergency. Rather, hunger will diminish only when ·those ill need have the purchasing power and the opportunities to gr()W\ ()I buy their ow food - in other words to become self reliant. Self .. reliallce in turn, can lle achieved only through a proCEss of development in which .pe~ple work together to remove 'tile barriers - some of them in· stitutional • that prevent . tile. poor from improving their Uves~ All too often the social and economic growth of societies is achieved atthe expense of th.()Se who are most in need. 'I'he benefits of growth must be spread broadly among all sectors of society. To foster self-reliance, the agenciesofrHA, Catholic Relief Services, Church World Ser- vice, Luthe-ran World Relief, · and The American Jewish Joint · Distribution Committee, work . in partnerslii.p with overseas colleagues to ·.provide agricultural training, expand credit opportunities, promote income-generating activities and enhance decision-making skills of poor people. Removing barriers to development and helping to create opportunities allows for the remarkable resourcefulness, wisdom and sldlls of c~pable people to flourish. Sharing experiences and conclu~ions, the· agencies of IHA respo~d to specific needs . by acknowledging and building on the talents and c11stoms ·Of their partners in the developing world. · You may be thinking, \But what can I do? I am only one person.,; You can do more than you think by (1) understanding the problems and . causes of hunger and actively involving yourself in tl;le development of public policies that address these injustices, {2) organizing or joining campus groups· that inform and motivate others to a better understanding · of global hunger . and (3) upon graduation, involving your corporation, community, and religious organizations in ef- forts that will make the lives of some 500· million people more humane~ What can you do? You can do a .great deal by keeping in- formed and involved. .-... . .-....--~·~·-·~-~ . ..._.. . .._.. •. i lnternati~n.al Fi.lm· Festival f ' ..• , October 21 Federico Fellini, .,. · La .strada ( 1 954). · .,·. Octob.er ~8 lngmar Bergman, ., . . The S9yanth Seal (1956) . . . . i .. · Noyembe·r· 4 Jean·-.Luc Go.dard, '· ' · , Breathless (1959) I : And MorE Movies in November J .,...~ . ..._... .................. ~ . .._.. . ..._.. ......... ..._... 'Helber ·2 4 UN l.t<i t E LE'B R fttE:S . UNlTUl Nltt.l ONS, [)R'Y IN' Place countr~ great t been , gathetE visitors whenC door to first tl eyes- clothes Thougt owned more conscic sweller the ra ment startec values one foreig moustl drew Passel they moder enougl .grand) create Chines abnofl these theek It is l restri clothE Somet quite mothe fortiel we be have1 she si the s1 could am on howe~ older dark that tl very dividt grou~ am on tbirti• 'ThE more dress can c they rainb diver dresl rang« peopl inCh exan diffe1 color with· be s

CONCDRDIENSIS, October '15;. 1'987 . Page 9 INTERN-ATIONAL FEATURES· . . . ' - Chinese ·Style Lure of American Diamonds Ey.WlJ YIDONG Placed in -tbis very different country, l began to see how great the curiosity must have been of the Chin.ese who gathered around tb.e foreign visitors in the_ streets or snops when China. had just .open.-ed its door to the outside. world. The first thing that captured our eyes- -w.as the fashionable clothes (Jf the foreign .. tourists. Though state-run or private- owned shops are jammed. with more and more beauty- consciou::; customers ~ witbtheir swollen ])ockets as a result of the rapid ecoriomie develop- ment SiJlce the 'l\eform that started in 1978) thE change of values and esthetics is always one st~p beh~nd. Those · foreigners who wore both mDustaehes and col<lrful elothes drew tbe biggest attention. Passersby thought: ''How come they wear these 'da:zzling moderrt clothes? !fhey are old enough to be my chil-dren's grandparents. Indeed, it may create .a great worry for any old Chinese people having such abnorrne1l behavioi as to put on these kinds of clothes, though tl:le eldel's deserve high respect. It is a paradox that they are restricted to dark or blue clothes ·at the same time. Sometimes, my wife ancl I are quite embarrassed when my mother~ who is 1ltill in her forties, couldn't wear clothes we bou~ht for heL\. She might have wallted to wear them, but she simply couldll't because of the style. Fashionable dothes. could easily find a big market · among ~-the yo11ng pceople; howevel', the clothes for the older men and women l'emain dark colored, despite the fa:ct that they admire tbe new styles very much\ Clothing style . can divide :people into several age groups: the color begins to fade among people in their late thirties or forties. The aged are also beeoming more and more interested in dressin.g, I doubt whethEr they can or will be dressed up like the yollllg people as there is a rainbClW of. colors, prints and diverse designs using different dress materials.. The wide range ()f fashions ()f the young people embodies the new trend in China\ As for W()men, the best example is an annual renewal of different skirt styles. One year, colorftll skirts, generally short with pl\ints of floWErs, dots, may be seen everywhere, .and he followil'lgyear, they change into skirtsc~f one color with long and ''elegant wave,'' ortbe graceful pleated skirt. Men have abandoned the Io()se-coUar cadre tunic-known as \Mao jacket''-and feel very com- fortable in V-shaped neckline jacket with broad shoulders. Just think how many new clothes .we could IIave pur~ . chased after yoll have observed this fact; to meet the demands of consumpti<m in the last five year:; or so, new shops run by private owners have been set up. The kind o~ new shops only have almost outn11rnbered the old shops we had before. These new ~hops are usually- small but they have clothes bought from all over China and sometimes from other countries. About half of oar clothes, sometimes more, are purchased. from these privately run stores, which allows a diversity in dressing. By studying Cbinese clothing, you can easily tell the social status or ~ackground of the people wearing it, but it doesn't work very well on the younger generation of fashion now. The traditional style is un- dergoing great change too. For example, women are fond of qipao dress iii modem versions. Qipao was l:ligb collared and buttoned across the chest and down the side, hung straight down to the ankles. The qipao was pop11lar among apper class citi?;ens for about three hundred yE;lars. It is no longer reserved among the noble and the rich for formal occasions, but serves various purposes, even for daily events as it's desig-ned to allow mol\e movemept, and figure- hugging. It is unfortunate that . only the traditional . dress of folklores is seen by foreigners due to economic or other rea:;ons in selection. These dresses do not represent the national style, nor the style of the intellectuals who tend to show thetr cultural aclrievements ·by dress. Their clot1les look unadorned but in good taste. This style is in- fluenced by Chinese arts, such as paintings, caligraphy, and even poems and essays. The greatest ·art works are -almost always simple but elegant So you can stin tell the in- tellectuals from the rest ·by their dress. · Isn't it beautiful t() wear red clothes under the sunshine in the green sea of crops? But ed\lcated Chinese, especially pe!»ple ofletters, prefer walking \ Y:IDEOS FROM BRAZIL Pro.f. Ester Kosovki Wed. 10/21-28 and 11./4 6 ·pm Soc. Sci ... Bullding Room 105 10/21 10/28 11/4 FREE Amazonia Xingu-lndians in Srazil Rio~Beauty and nanger . ' in the moonlight al()ng a slender pond. In fact I was surprised that American students seldom paid any attention to the pale, lonely moon in .the dark, wltich gives so m11cb f eeli,ug of loneliness, sotrowness aud purity, etc, and makes me choose with great pain am()ng over 50 beautiful names of the · moon in our 'language. · Our culture has such a great impallt on our dress. It is believed by some Chinese fashion designers that only by absorbing nourishments from our own cultu.re can we cat eli up with the rest of the world\ Their designs following this idea won the applause from many otber countries in a recent fashion show in Paris last month. I think the national atyle will always carry a kind of elegant simplicity, or simple elegance, no matter how far the fashio11s reach .in the future. =1+1 - By LAURA•EVE MOSS \The Mets are making a pitching change; the Phillies have the bases loaded with ' nobody out.\ (WAIT! Read the remainder of this article before you try to figure out why a sports article is on the in- ternational page.) The above quote signifies much more than a statement about a ball game. It led to one of my many experiences here at , Union in understanding elements . of foi\eign cultures--~n op- portunity which was greatly enhanced by rooming with girls from Viet Nam and Jamaica duril}g my first two years here. I ca11 ¥ividly remember that night last spring when I made the shocking discovery. (Aren't . all discoveries shocking???) It all started so innocently. I walked down the hall to say hi to my friend froi;ll Italy (we'll can her Maria)\ I told her, \I can't stay. The Mets are making a pitching change; the Phillies have the bases loaded with nobody out.\ I was already on my way out the door when Maria '.s response pulled me back\ \The who have the what loaded with nobody out of ·what?\ I couldn't believe my ears. r decided that it must be the strain of the game, but I had to • make sute I'd heard her correctly k \'What the ++&& ? ! do you mean, 'The .who have the whatloaded with nobody out of what?' nis is baseball. You must k:n(l'W about baseball!'' Boy, was I· wrong. The questions·-and expletives-- continued for another few minutes before it started to sink in. Tllen <li: asked'\ the fateful question. \l'Clu mean you don't play baseball in Italy?\ \Well I~ve heard of it, of course, blit f()otball (soccer) is the big thing in Italy.··· While I knew that soccer was extremely :popular in Europe, I had never before considered the role of European soccer in terms of its parallel in American society. Without going intotlLE expliCit details of my wond-erment at how Maria's society bas· survived without baseball, y!»u can see how a simple everyday encounter can lead to a better understanding not only ()f foreign cultures, but of my OW!l culture as well. I cannot, in good conscience, end witl:lo11t admitting that there are certain dangers involving ·Cilltural exposure. In this case Maria was the victim. She has b~come intensely at- tachedt() ,the game of baseball; she is destined to live out her life c:alculating batting averages. and reading box scores. hat a Shock - By PATRICK PERIVIEE. As a French student, the very . first time I went to a class here, I was quite excited: I thought I was going tCl meet some n~w people. Imagine how surprised I was, wnen as soon a~:~ the class had finished, my fellow stud.ents promptly disappeared ... I am pretty sure, though. you would have the same kind of shock if you went to a French university. · Your first surpris·e-· undoubtedly your wallet would love it-is that you'd only haveto pay the modest amount of alxlut a hundred dollars for one year tuition; Now, try to think o£ your · reaction when the first day you'd see some stuclents kissing each other on the cheeks, C()<me on!!!), one, two, three, fom\: 'oh boy! 1 thought they'd never stop' ... And eagerly, there you go to Monday: Tu~sdhy: your first French class. I do sympathize: having to take notes ~none's lap, that's no fun, but believe me you were quite lucky. you at least had a chair. By the end Df the hour and a half, you guys would have a terrible headache. Nobody warned you: French students are real chain smokers. What, wasn't your teacher smoking? How unusual! But~ but ... where do they all hurry to? Come on, follow them, don't leave, you're not gonna believe your eyes. The student cafeteria, the sacred area, the belovEd room, everybody sit- ting around the table--enjoying 'un petit noir;, talking about the building which is as dirty as usual--'but this year we're lucky, they've repainted the toilets!', tl:le disgusting un- competitive prices in the bookshop next door, and sud- denly here they go talking about what the Premier Ministre said the night before. Please don't worry, tll~y're not arguing, they're enjoying themselves. By the !time they leave, the ashtray is full, and lots of plastic cups Jay on the table. And y~u think: \Oh good, we are going to go to the dorms all together.\ But no, here they go kissing ag;ai.Jl, one, two, three, four ..• And everybody is going on his .oWJI way, and there you are, left a!o11e on the pavement. Didn't the-y tell you they still lived at llome (the majority of young adults live with 'maman et papa': i5 percent at the age of twent37 an:d still 26 percent at the age of twenty-four! )o Don't worry, t(tmorrow everything will start again ... By the wa:y, I forgot, I should have bet you'd have more shocks th:an I had. I surely would ba11e won my hundred bucks ... Wednesday: French table, 12:JO Italian table, 12:00 Spanish table, 12:30 Gcttnan table, 12:00 Thursday: Language tables will meet in the Pub at the Colleg:e Center, and all members of the college community are welcome to attend.

P.age 10 ____ __, ........ _Poundnl or timon Colle&r 1St:\-------- Alcohol Awareness Of course we're all aware of alcohol. It's like the :cliche says: \I don't have a drinking problem, I drink, I get drunk, I fall down, no problem.\ WRONG! Alcohol abuse is a problem; it has been a contributing factor in too many violent acts that have occurred on our campus. It's time to stop and think about what is going on here. · LETTERS Grounds Committee at Your .Service To tlle editor.: Last winter, the Student For11m formed the Student GrcWlds Conunittee to act as a liaison between the students and Campus Operations (Security an<l Physical Plant). • The five students on the com- • mittee meet once every two . weeks with Dean Df Students • Joseph Mammola, Jack Hill, . Director of Campus Operations, · and Ken Relyea, Assistant · Director of Campus Operations . for Physical Plant. The conunittee is a channel windows, the lack of drainage on walkways, the malfunc· tioning spotlight on the flagpole and lighting in general on campus. This y!(lar we plan to addre$s conce:r.rns including· the escort system' better snow removal this wrlnter, ways of preventing vandalism on campus, and pl&cement of mor~ trash receptacles. problem of which you are aware or you have an idea for im- provements, contact someone on the Stu!lent Grol!fids com- mittee. The yes· of 2,000 woUld more . easily spot problems around campus than· the few eye~ at Physical Plant. Hopefully, as well as .solving more maintenance problems, this will , promote campus awareness and. make everyone a little prouder and a little happier to be at Union. ' for suggestions and concerns from students about aU issues of se·curity and the College Gromtds. Last year, specific As it will soon be National Alcohol Awamess Week (Oct. 19-23) now is as. good a time as any to reflect on the situation. it would be naive and ludicrous to suggest that alcohol should be prohibited here. It is such a central part of the College social atmosphere.; people enjoy drinking. Some would even argue that small amounts of alcohol are beneficial to your health. Responsibility is the key work. A mature approach to 1 handling alcohol consumption is needed. ~ issues were raised such as the time required to repJace broken 'l'he Student Grounds Com• mittee will be using Con- cordlensiS and I)osters to inform students of upc:()rn.ing changes in policy and pr-()cedure; -and tD give explanatl~ns ()£ , current happenings{for-inst~nce, why it to()k so long for the Ugbts in fr()nt of Carnegie to be turned on) pertaini11g to campus opE:rations. 'f!lle need your suggestions.! U there is a We live·here! Take action! If you see problems, speak up! Gall someone on the Student Grounds Committee today:. Beth Deaner 3864354 Bob Sharlap 372·5064 LeAta Jackson 370-6964 Jeff Klitz 37 4-1994 Seth ~ichaels.374-1994 The College 1s joining many other schools throughout the country in observing National Alcohol . Awarness week. During the week there will be various events, displays, and discussions occurring on campus concerning this topic (see schedule). Take in some of the information provided here. It doesn't mean we have to stop enjoying ourselves, we should just think about it and realize that there is a point where alcohol use turns into abuse, and people start to get hurt. Racquetball Writing The little- known trials of newspaper work ... there's all the routine stuff, and then the secret things that editors do in the a.m. hours. During the working hours I'm a writer for an Albany newspaper on an internship. It's hard work but is simple. You make no big decisions, just take assignments, write, arid rewrite after the ~ditor shows how wordy you were. Every week I see my name in print a few times on political stories and ifs nice. The past eight hours I've done the little chores an editor does. I've checked spellings and punctuations, rewritten personals and laid out those popular ads pages. With other dedicated hard working Concordiensis types, I've worked hard to get just fhe right headlines and layout designs to get you to read every article. Hopeless task. I'm thinking back to last year, when if we had mental blocks, we would take out the racquetb~l racquets and play off the walls on third floor Old Chapel But now, in the big, beautiful, and seemingly fragile College Center (Carnegie was durabl~. this place is not) all we can do to brainstorm is wander around and think, as I'm doing as I write. The reason for this mental wandering is because we just scrapped one editorial because we felt that we were not ready to print it, but.the theme of the editorial was making people aware of a certain issue. We '11 see next week. Deciding what to bring to the campus each week on the front page and on this page is one of the bigger tasks. It can be frustrating when no one responds, but very rewarding when they do, and that's ·what we get out of it. Plus great resumes. · Thought we'd tell you what goes on up here, and how not writing sometimes is tougher·than writing, and the thinking is the hardest part. Time to get the racquetball. Do -you have an Opinion on anything? Write a letter to the editor$ ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEE-K W.EDNESD.r\Y, OCTOBE.R 21: \Imagery and Advertising\ Professor Don Spring will show a sample of current alcohol commercials and engage· the audience in a critical discussion of the evert and Stlbliminal messages used in adver«sing. COLL,EGE CENTER · AUDITORIUM-4:00pm. THURSDAY, OCTOBI:R 22: Wine, Mal:t Beverages both non-alcoholic) ~;md ChEese Reception. Union College Food Services offers an extensive array of domestic and imported cheeses \'lith a line of noncalcolholic wines and beers. This is an opportunity to discover altema:tive party drinks thatallo\iN you to be one of the crowd withoutthe hango_ver. DUTCH HOLLOW ReSTAURANT 4:00-6:00 pm. Also U.C.D.S. vwlll distribute \Cookingwiith Beer, Wine and Spirits: 10 Simple· Racipies for the Budget Conscious Student\ samples of the dishes will be offered in the Skellar. AVAILABLE IN THE SKELLAR. Watch for other U.C.D.S. updates and surptiises. ••The Addictive Spciety\ Reverend Tom Davis, Chaplin at Skidmore college, will discuss alcohol abuse in our culture and relate. it to anti-social behavior such as date rape. This presentation is sponsored by Sigma Chi. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM 7:30\9:00 pm i=RIDAY, OCTOBER 23: ••High Risk Factors of Adult childreR of alcoholics 011 the College Campus\ Grace Smythe from.l\roy Outreach Family SeNices, will be leading a discussion on alcohoOiism as. a family problem. Topics will include coping with a family member who has the disease of alcoholism andlhe special genetic and social risks associated with being 1he child ohm alcoholic. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITOR!Ui\t 11:30-1 :00 pm. Throughout the week there will be displays, movies, ;and calculated attempts to encourage everyone in· the Union Community to reflect.on the past alqohol plays on our lives. We hope some of these efforts will give you pause to consider how you use alcohol. \This Nudge is for YOU.'\ · Ad Hoc Commi-ttees on ·Professors' ~tenure An ad hoc committee has been formed to review An ad hoc committee-·tlas b-een -formed to the tenurability of Prof. Hilary Tann of trae consider the tenurability of Andrew F. Burke, Department of the Arts. Faculty, students arud Assistant Professor of Mechanical other interested members of the College are e11- Engineering. Anyone wishing to contribute couraged to submit written comments pertaining materials or testimony to the committe.e to Prof. Tann's teaching, scholarly activity. and should contact Prof. Bill Fairchild at ext. community service. Letters may be addressed to · a11y member of the committl?e, which inclu<les . 6 1 64. or other members of the committee Profs. Janet Anderson (Chemistry), Peter who are: C. Sorum, Classics; R. Heinegg (English), Barry Smith (Arts), and Byron Shanebrook, Mechanical Engineering;· and Nichols (Political Science), Chair. M. ~udko, Electrical Engineering. All Leters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced, and submi1ted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and al[ writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the fetter. Names normally will · not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves . the right to .reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard · of good taste. Letters to the Editor and, Commentaries ' do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis . . a\!,.t'OtD 1N I1'JJ . . ~~Jd l'f'T rtu~r. ~~~;~·, r. · ~t·rn,at··a · \LJ.-ou ,~,~, ..v. . ....... ,:~ ~ (d ~.~ JJ \' D • \. .J .,-.».,. .. , 0 .~ <K<-.. r 1\. ~ Editors-in CJrief News EdiliOrs Fea,tu:re$.Edi~ •. Intematio~aJF~ Editor Science Editor Commentacy Page Editors Arts EditGts Campus Pa~e Editors Sports EditCNS Advertising Editors Assistant .Mvertising Editor Business :Managers Photo .Ediwrs Subscripti«m Editors Honorary Faciirty Advisor -·~~ ..... ,~,t L ~~ . ' - ~~\•cT•t>avid Gulliv~. Lee Ann Schmidt Fiona Shukrl, R. Reed Whidderl Marjorie Hoffey, Cathy Markes, WendyZimm.ennan Gary Steinbaum Jennif~ Kove Stuart Sands Jim MacLaughlin, Jan Goldstein Athena Ling, Kelley Pa.tk Chris Hinckley, Andrew Miller Jacki, Bell. Lisa Ordower · LiSa Brown Beth GoodSmith. Robin Jacobson Alan Klapper, Rebecca Smith. John Bergeron, Robetit McGowan C. William Huntley S'f AFF: Matteo Coveri Abbondio, Jeff Albrecht,- Mis\sy Beat, Elizabeth Eerliner, Gail Blumenfeld. Kris Bumhlllll, Dusty Cohen, John Colm. Steven Cole, Joy Cybul, Alan DeSalvio, Chidsey DickSon, Wu Yi Dong, Lynn Duffy, Amy Elizabeth. Amy Goldstein, Dina Golll!B, Dana Hand. Chns Hartmann,. Kathy Hawke, J,)ebra Honig. Al\be:rto Iaia, Stan Kitzinger, Greg Kranowski; Elizabeth Landsiedel, Lina Leung, Melissa Levine, Ed Lin, Franz Litz, Mary Beth Maming, 'Tim Matthl}ws, Leslie Morris,. Lin Ngamtrakulpanit. Stacey Papa., Liz Perkowitz~ Nick Piccirillo, Tracey Pryluck, Sandra Roth, Michelle Ruelos, Kristen Santos. Jorg Schaldach, Ezra Sherman, Charlie Slot:rJ.ik. Emily Soo Hoo, Conrad Tatge, P~ul Weedell, MarkZimmerman. CONCOllDIEN.SlS is.published every Thursday by the student body of U'.Uon College, Schenectady, New York 12308; Publications Office; S1111quehanna Publicaiton, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (6~7) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere ln the United States. Conc;:orcliensls subscribes to the Intercollegiate Press (IP), Office Telephone(5l8) 310-6155.

CONCOR'D:lfl.NSJS~·. Octo.hr. · ·fi; , J.9fl7 Page 11 _________ :__ ____ ,~--·, ....... --~~--- ...... --~--,~·------- -~.--- ~ ~ ~----~,_-- __ _:_ _______ ---....------ -..--~~------- - SCIENCE, HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY .. Morals ·- ·Ethics in Applied Scien.ce lJy ALAN DE SALVIO The Strategic Defense Initiative bas brought up some interesting points for graduating sen-iors ,.{n()t to exclude an established scien- tists or un<!ergrads, but especially se.niors). The issues have been amund for a long time, probably all the way back ·to the. Greeks,. or at least to·the first person paid. (directly or indirectly)\. to :Produce military technology. The Manhattan Project was a good e~ample, as was the conttoversy. surroun· ding tne us• s development of the thermonuclear bomb, and last week's Physics department colloquium also touched on the philosophy of science (and I':m not· just ·throwing in a blatant plug, it really did), at least with regard to Nazi Germany. The. main issue is a simple one: Should scientists WQrk on destabilizing military projects? To clarify, the nuclear bomb· (atomic sounds better, but it really incorrect) was destabilizing . to the military situation in WWII, both in early 1940 when the army started to fund nuclear research and in 1945 when the first bomb was dropped. All scientific parties involved were.:fully aware of the global implications of the bomb, especially of the incredible escalation it could lead- to in terms of civilian deaths, but chose to go ahead with the. research regardless, having decided that the iinmediate ware effort to defeat the Ax-is was more important than any ' posaible long term ramifications of the weapon. It turns out Sachs sold the idea of building nuclear bombs to Roosevelt by scaring him with the pos~ibility of Germany developing the technology first and then nuking the we$t into tbe stone age. He also used the story of the young inventor who wen.t to Napoleon wjth plans ofa sailless fleet tllat could attack Britain in any . weather. Napoleon of couse denounced hitn as a fool and an .idiot, and kicked him out of his court. So Robert Fulton went back to the States. · Destabilizing, .of course, refers to the implications of a technology or ·system. The longbow,rifle,. cannon, machine gun, ·nuclear bomb, and ICBM all had profound effects on history through their destabilizing effects,, although they were highly dependent on the situation they were used in. Star Wars, for example, would be highly dest:;lbilizing if it was deployed at this instant. So would something like orbiting nuclear warheads. But in ten years, say, the situation may be radically different. I'm not talking about basic science. Basi'c science will always be used for purposes far remov641 from what was initially imagined, and the scientist or theorist doing the work cannot be expected to anticipate all of the possible ramifications of his or her,work. These problems are being. magnified in today's era of super-specialization. How can the light metals expert an- ticipate his work being used for beryllium bomb casings? Anyway, no one complains of their basic scientific work being morally repugnant. On the Qther hand, many seniors facmg emploYI,llent or graduate work may consider military contractors and-or government labs, some of which are working - on . highly destabiliZing projects, among w:hiCh are the ''clean\ ar \neutron\ nuclear weapons, highly · accurate in· tercontinental and intermediate range .deii:very systems, booster and warhead protection and evasion technologies, and of couse the wbole Star Wars constellation of technologies. The questions being raised ([ am facing them myself) by- seniors run along the lines cf What - if SDI is the only em- ployment available? What if Hughes hires me and tvansfers me to their booster detectioa division? Or, more imp9rtantly, .should scientists censor their work? What if you discover tile _project you are working on appliesto a military project y()U disagree with? Do you burn your nQtes, change discipline~? Star Wars brings even more interesting questions to light. I:f the US goes ahead with deployment, parti.al deployment, or major research on selecte.d technologies, the drain on the nation's scientists could be quite large, stripping many disciplines of their best talent. Is this acceptable? rt was acceptable in a .different form during WWII, when the entire country mobilized behind the war effort. But today's situation is different. We do1t! have an imperialistic natio11 occupying its neighbors. Or do we? D·r.. Boyer to Present Steinmetz Lecture The 55t:h Steinmetz Memorial Lecture will be delivered on Wednes<lay, October 21 by Dr. . Ernest h. Boyer, President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, on the subject, \College: Making the Connections.'' The lecture, sponsol.\edby Union College and the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), will start at 8:00 p.m. at. the college• s Memorial Chapel. The program honors the · memory of Charles Proteus Steinmetz and his contributions to electl.\ieal engineering, the engineering profession, and the city of Schenectady. Steinmetz setved as a member of the . Schenectady Board of Education ancl initiated many innovative improvements and ex:pansion of the Schenectady scbo()l system. Dr. B()yer, one of the coun- tryJ s le~ding educators, is known ]()cany for his tenure as Chancellor of the State . University of New York (SUNY) from 1970 to 1977. In this capactiy; he introduced a number of innovative programs, including the non- . campus Empire State College. Dr. Boyer then became the twenty-third U.S. Cam- missioner of Ecucation. In this position, he emphasized ex- cellence in education and the centrality of language and oversaw a 40 percent increase in federal support for education. Dr. Boyer holds a Ph.D., degree from the University of Southern California and has been awarded honorary degrees from 8~ U.S. colleges and universities including Union. In 1983, in a national survey of educators, he was selected as the leading educator in the nation. He is the author of the widely acclaimed book High Scb01tl ·and, more recently, College: . The Undergraduate Experience in Amerl~a. A policy study on education in children's early years is underway. Summer at Sea \This place is all rl:ght. Two more weeks, and I'll be a molecular biochemist.\ . From What's So Funny About Science'? -cartoon$ by Sidney ~~ . What's So Funny About Science'! ByJORGSCHALDACB This is not only the question which evel.\ybody asks who reads this science page, but also the title of a book by Sidney . Harris (publisher: W. Kauf- .mann, Inc., Los Altos, CA).It is . ·a collection of-cartoons which . were originally pUblished in the AMERICAN SCIENTIST. Harri::; shows funny . or sometimes absurd situations, but they all contain some truth or are exaggerations of certain tendencies. The book-·m full of good jokes, and everybody who likes science· will like to laugh about them. This page will show some of Harris' .. cartoons, so maybe the question above will finally be answered .. ·union Physicist Discusse·s Fractals ByE~YED ZOLTAN David Peak, Frank and Marie Lousie Baiiey Profess~r of - Physics, gave the Faculty Colloquium Inaugural Address, which took place Tuesday, Oct. 13 at 4:30 .p,m.· in the College tl Center. His talk was on HFractalS. in Space and Other Pastimes.\ Coffee and tea were served to the public. In his talkt which was well attended, ·he gave . an introduction to th~ fractals, with their applications in space science. He spoke about an ex:periment, in which they used snow flakes to study the nature of the inter..stellar matter .. . Peak received biS B.S. from the State University College at New Paltz and his Ph.D. from the State University of New York at Albany. Honored on several occasions for his teaching, he received three' awards at SUNY A and has been granted support from the National Science Foundation, the Department of Energy, and NASA. Peak was twice a research fellow at ·the Goddard Space Flight Center in Maryland. He is the .author ~f over 30 . research papers m quantum theory, . general relativity aQ.d particle theory, and other .topics. By DONNA LAZENDORF How does going to the Gulf Df Mexico for a month to research bottle-nose Dolphins sound? Or scuba diving off St. John to study ct)ral reefs and poison()us fish?! Maybe yoU're the type who wants to devote a whole tenn in Kenya learning. about wildlife management or . Tropical Species Divel'sity in Australia. Whatever your thing- -chances are you can find a topic that interests you througil the School for Field Studies. SFS has summer semester .and January terms all over the world:, offering hands-Qn ex- perience in ecology, biology, botany and more. These trips reap numel.\oll$ benefits in addition to the amazing career potentiaL F.,r Physics ! _C·olloquium \The Physic~ of Gliding. and Soaring\ Dr. Francis P. Bundy General Electric R&D Center (ret.) Schenectady, NY Date: October 15, 1987 Place: Steinmetz Hall Room 106 Time: 4:45p.m. Refreshments will be served at 4:30 p.m. example, this past summer I · .became involved from JUly to August with dolphins--yes dolphins! In 100 degree tem- peratures armed with boats; sungla11ses and a clipboard, .fourteeil: other girls, four guys (including two male fac~ty advisars) and I went out every day in search of thein. Swim- ming in the ocean with . Wild dolphins is an experience I will never forget. Many of us h;ld taken science and were interested in .field biology work. Some had gone into the work. force and were back testing out the \waters\ for gtad school . interests. Whatever the reason for being tbere-!lfier a month of living~ very close quarters in a beach bouse-we all had a common bond. For those who've taken a term abroad, I can only liken the ex:perience to that closeness and sense of appreciation that stems from shared experiences . For those who won't take the time during the year--SF A summer opportunities are ideal!. Being away in a new location doing research suited my in· terests. Sound fascinating? It is! For more information come down to the Career Develop- ment Center. See the slide show on Thursday, Oct. 22, 12:30 p.m.! You won't be sorry: ... because you just don't knaw what you're missing! SOCIETY OF PHYSICS STUDENTS - CAPITAL DISTRICT MEETING SATURDAY. ocr. 17, 1987 UNION COLLEGE, SOCIAL SCIENCES BUILDING, ROOM 012 9:00 Welcome: Prof. LaszloBaksay,linion College 9:20 \Innovative Use:; of Office Material& ilrExperim,cnul physics\ Lmlis Schick, Union College 9:40 \Double Sense Wire Current. Division Drift Chamber\ Tllll Poirier, Union· College 10:00 ''Experimental Study of Dyes Bound to Protein\ Michelle :Markus, Rensselaer Polyu:clmic Institute 10:20 \The Hubble Parameter\ Rebecca Koopmann, Union College l():n40 Coffeeanddonul$ 11:10 \Becoming a Physicist\ Prof. Ralph Alpher, Union College · 11:55 Lunch 13:20 \A cloud chamber project\ Mark JaffreY,, Union College 13:4() \Thelntematiooal Association of Physics Students\ Zoltan Egyed, Eotv()S Universitym, B11dapesl and Union College 14:00 \High pressure gas detectors for particle physics\ marcus Drew, Vassar College · 14~2() Refreshments 14:40 \Dynamic light scattering studies of networks in prOcei.n actin\ Nick Mroczka, Union College 15:()() \'The European Center fot Nuclear Research, • Slide show Prof. Laszlo Bak&ay, Union College 1S:20 Tour of physics research labs Meet in SSU12 Talks will be infomial with question and answer period following. Ses~ssiO!Is :-vm ~ vei?o taped lectures will be aimed at the educated layperson. This program w m_co~Juncuoow~tlt • the f:aUlmeeting of the New Y orl! State Section: of the American Assoc111Uon of Phy11C11 · Teac:lie:rs.

Page 12 · CONCORDIENSIS, Oc'tobei ·1s, 1987 ARTS/FILMS En1o Philips and Livingston Taylor PerforiTI ~or HornecotrJ.ing ByJOYCYBUL Emo Phillips and Livingston Taylor came to Union College on Friday night. \Liv'' Taylor gave the opening act. I think that he should have gotten much more recognition than he did in· the advertisements for the night's performance. He's an extremely funny and talented man. He began by reading parts of the Concordy to the audience. He read one of the personals which .said, \Wendy- you're beautiful--you deserve a boyfriend.\ His opening song was \Life is good.\ All of his songs were performed last year when he came to Union, but they're still sounding great. \The day the big bang comes again\ is about how nothing will matter when we have a nuclear holocaust sincelhe world.willbe destroyed. Other songs which were sung were \I'm on vacation,\ \I hate country music,'' and a really beautiful song, \I will be in love with y<Ju.\ His final song was about what he'd like to do with his b<lcly when he's dead-\cut me up and pass me all around'' (give my knees to the needy, ESIPA at the EGG presents etc.) The audience loved him- he ended up singing \Marie\ as a result of a reque~t from the audience for his encore. He .finished up with \I'm a ·Cam- bridge kind of guy,\ thus ending another well received per- formance at our college, Then Emo Phillips came on- pageboy haircut, extremely thin, and an outfit out of a Salvation Army rejecti{)n box. But in aU fairness, I laughed a lot. He has a semi-filthy mind, but he is funny. I'll give an example of his humor for those of you who didn't get to see him in person. (His physical motions made lip at least 50 percent of his routine: I couldn't even begin to describe them). He told us about the first time that he drank-\It was Halloween, and I was at a costume party. I drank a lot and got sick all over myself -it's a good thing I went as a volcano.\; \I love going to the playground and watching the little kids jump and down screaming--they don't know that I· use blanks.\; \My brother says 'Hello'-Hurray for speech therapy! \ The audience g<lt involved in the act also. Emo chose Tim Sullivan, alias A VERY SPECIAL STAGED READING • .. .. ... . .. .. \A bit of sun and the coach of low's lumd. That is all I ask at the ia.~t.\ • • ~· . ; -· \ romance October 29, 30, 31 SPM Tickets: $4 Sruderir $5 Adult . Box· Office: (518) 443-Slit 'Mr. Pretend Stud to be the object of humor fDr a while. He's a Political Science major, and Emo tore him apart by making up newspaper headlines that would appear years from. now. The first one read, \Tim Sullivan-Peoples's Choice for Senator\-The next day's read \Tini Sullivan--caught with young boy.\ Tim was a super good ·sport about the whole thing, though. When Emo was young, he got caught cheating. His teacher heard the Xerox. machine. She sent him to the principal. Emo was nervous because his friend was sent to the principal, and couldn't sit down for a week. Emo prayed to himseU on the way to the principal's office. \Please don't let him find me attractive ... \ His grandfather never let anyone 1>ush him around-he loved that motoriZed wheelchair. Emo's car broke down-he called a mechanic-he said to check the trans-Emo told his brother to take off his dress and help him. That should be a fair sample of his humor-sick but funny' right!! And remember this Who Was First? The other raclio stations daim also to be America's first. WWH broadcasted first on August 20, 1920, four weeks bef<lre the · Un~on station, but was n(lt regularly scheduled until long after.· WWH recognizes that the Union station also did \test broadcasts long before AugllSt of 1920, and thus do not make a great effort as being recognized as America's first. ICDKA, a large commercial station in Pittsburgh, went on as America's first commercial station three weeks after Union. The Union station is often reco.gnized in :radio history\' publications as America's first, as Union clearly offered the first regularly scheduled broadcasts. 0 ] a.. (]) ... Singer LiVingston Taylor U: . profound thought-\The college death?\ students of today are the \Why? Do I look like I've graduate students ·of been dead?\ tomorrow.'' \What's your.favorite col<lr?\ ''Transparent.\ Emo ended with a question Emo has a very different _sort and answer session. Here's a ofhumor. I won't say whether it sample of what was said. was good or bad, but I will say \Do you do drugs?\ tbat I laughed. a lot. The eom· \No the flashbacks keep me bination of he and \Liv\ Taylor busy enough.'' made for a very enjoyable \Do ~ou believe in life after evening. College Choir Performs ByJOYCYBUL On Saturday night, the Union College Choir performed their annual Homecoming concert at 8:00 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. The choir was directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, who did an outstanding job of keeping everything under contro. Elinore Farnum ac- companied the singers on both the piano and the organ. Elinore did an outstanding job as well as Professor Wilson. · \The Silver Swan\ was the opening song, followed by selected pieces from ''The Creation\ by Joseph Haydn. There were three solos involved in the .presentation of \The Creation.\ Paula Nadeau, Marc Howard, and Joe Murphy aH gave flawless performances. This was followed by ''Shenandoah,\ written by Linda Spevacek.. This was my personal favorite.. ef the evening's reperto.ire. The .choir closed with their rendition of \Allelujia then had Union Alumni come up to the stage to join- the choir. They an sang a medley of Union ·songs, thus bringing to an end another extremely successful per- formance by the Union College choir. Valerie Hanna, '91, says that \Hugh's awesome--he ~ really inspires you to sing. In high school I never really worked at it Here I do because he makes you want to.\ Yes, they work. And yes, they sound amazing. Congratulations on a great performance-keep it up! UNION COLLE.GE STUDENT ACTIVITIES/PROCTOR'S THEATER CULTURAL SERIES • 1987-198.8 A grant from the Student Forum makes it possible for th~ Office of Student Activities in conjunction with Proctofs Theater to offer students a se11sational series of events at incredibly low prices. All undergraduate Union · College students are invited to take advant~ge of .this unique opportunity. How to purcllase. tickets: Tickets will be available to UC students 10 days prior to a performance at thet Information Booth in the College Center Atrium. · A student Lb. must be shown when purchasing tickets. No ticket reservations will be accepted over the telephone. (Tickets will be held atthe Information Booth for 24 hours only). There are no refunds for tickets that are sold unless the performance at Pro¢tor's is canceHed. Cash or personal checks are acceptable forms of payment; personal checks shoulel be made payable to Union . College and used with college I:D. In most cases, top price tickets have been purchased, so that seating should .be good. F1;1el fr~e to use the · Proctor's Theater seating diagram, available at .the Information Booth, when selecting your ticke~s. Unsold ticket clause: Tickets that remain unsold 48 hours prior to performance time will be available f()r purchase by any Union College employee: the price of the tickets will be equal to the College purcha'e price . §~t!E12YLE STAFF EVENT DATE TltAE FACULTY PRICE STUDENT PRiCE Beehive 11/18 BPM $9;00 $4.50 Waves 11/19 8PM $7;00 $3.50 . King and I 1/28 8PM $9.00 $4.50 Big River 2114 7PM $18;00 $·9;00 Mummenschanz 2125 7PM $7,00 $3.50 Festival on lee 3104 BPM $19.50 $9.75 Dave Brubeck 4116 BPM $12.00 $6.00 South Pacific 4/21 BPM $22.50 $11.25 Momix SA>S BPM $1.00 $3.50 Canadian Brass 5113 BPM ss:.oo $4.50 ·~ j l ,. l

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1987 ARTS/FILMS EITio Philips and Livingston Taylor Perform for I-Iolllecoining ByJOYCYBUL Emo Phillips and Livingston Taylor came to Union College on Friday night. \Liv\ Taylor gave the opening act. I think that ht: ::.l.vu.lu have golteiJ much lUOl'C l\<;Lvt thaH :a; lilJ ili the alherti:oement.s fur the night's performance. He· s an extremely funny and talented man. He began by reading parts of the Concordy to the audience. He read one of the personals which said, \Wendy- you're beautiful--you deserve a boyfriend.\ His opening song .vas \Life is good.\ All of his songs were performed last year when he came to Union, but they're still sounding great. \The day the big bang comes again\ is about how nothing will matter when we have a nuclear holocaust since the world will be destroyed. Other songs which were sung were \I'm on vacation,\ \I hate country music,\ and a really beautiful song, \I will be in love with you.\ His final song was about what he'd like to do with his body when he's dead-\cut me up and pass me all around\ (give my knees to the needy, Arts Nunsense The \habit forming\ musical · comedy, Nunsense, will open at the Coho~s Music Hall on November 5. The show started as a mine-reView at a Green- wich Village nightclub in 1984 and by 1985 had developed into a full-length musical. Now in its second smash year off- Broadway the show will begin its upstate premiere. Nunsense focuses on the &utrageous misadventures of the Little Sisters of Hoboken, af~ feetionately known as the ''Little Hobos.\ During November the show will run Thur$day..Sunday. For reser~ . vations and further information please call Heritage Artists at 235-7969. Top .Black Woman Writer to Speak The New Y Ol\k State Museum presents Toni Cade Dambara on Oetober 16 in the Odet!tation Theatre of the Mtiseum. · Bambar~ whose novel The Salt Eaters won an American Book Award, will present a: reading from her work at -8 p.m. The presentation is free and open to the p:llblie •.... , · ., ESIPA at the EGG presents etc.) The audience loved him- he ended up singing \Marie\ as a result of a request from the audience for his encore. He finished up with \I'm a Cam- bridge kind of guy,'' thus ending ;:mot~er well recei\'ed per- !'vrtll~l'.LT a~ l•Ul' l'l,;Jcgt: The:: Emu Phillip~ canw ·>n- pageboy haircut, extremely thin, and an outfit out of a Salvation Army rejection box. But in all fairness, I laughed a lot. He has a semi-filthy mind, but he is funny. I'll give an example of his humor for those of you who didn't get to see him in person. (His physical motions made up at least 50 percent of his routine: I couldn't even begin to describe them). He told us about the first time that he drank-\lt was Halloween, and I was at a costume party. I drank a lot and got sick all over myself -it's a good thing I went as a volcano.\; \I love going to the playground and watching the little kids jump and down screaming--they don't know that I use blanks.\; \My brother says 'Hello'-Hurray for speech therapy!\ The audience got involved in the act also. Emo chose Tim Sullivan, alias Briefs Gay Talese Comes ·to Albany At 8 p.m. on October 14 Gay Telese spoke in Page Hal4 135 Western Ave., on the downtown· campus of the University at Albany. Talese, a former · reporter for the New York Times, now has numerous best selling book length studies published. His books each contain \the dark truths of human nature.\ Recently United Artists bid a record breaking $2Jl million for the film rights to Talese's book \Thy Neighbor's Wife.\ Dance Planet at Nightshift On October 16 and 17 Dance Planet returns fgr another engagement to downtown Scben.ootf!dy~s lwt music cll1b: Ntghtsl'Ult. Dane(} has ~e .. 1y ... ~n-. c· ., )fl~t.!lll~id Blotto Records to. rele~•Sf: Dew slbuni un~ hibel. 'fht music starts 4rt and cover . . iJ A \'ERY SPECIAL STAGED READINC:J • e. • . • ' . \A lut of sun and thr tot1ch of I on~ '.1 lwnd. That 1.1 ull I l.l-'k a r thr la.1t.\ • ~ --a romance October 29, 30, 31 SPM Tickets: $4 Student $5 Adulr Box Office: (518) 443-5111 'Mr. Pretend Stud to be the object of humor for a while. He's a Political Science major, and Emo tore him apart by making up newspaper headlines that would appear years from \lOW. The first one read, \Tim St: Hi•. an- Peoplt·s':-; rlJOict for Senator\- The :t~xt day's read \Tim Sullivan--caught with young boy.\ Tim was a super good sport about the whole thing, though. When Emo was young, he got caught cheating. His teacher heard the Xerox machine. She sent him to the principal. Emo was nervous because l:lis friend was sent to the principal, and couldn't sit down for a week. Emo prayed to himself on the way to the principal's office, \Please don't let him find me attractive ... \ His grandfather never let anyone push l1im around-he loved that motorized wheelchair. Emo's car broke down-he called a mechanic-he said to check the trans-Emo told his brother to take off his dress and help him. That should be a fair sample of his humor-sick but funny, right? And remember this Who Was First? The other radio stations daim also to be America's first. WWH broadcasted first on August 20, 1920, four weeks before the Unlon station, but was not regularly scheduled until long after.· WWH recognizes that the Union station also did \test broadcasts long before August of 1920, and thus do not make a great effort as being recognized as America's first. KDKA, a large commercial station in Pittsburgh, went on as America's first commercial station three weeks after Union. The Union station is often recognized in radio history publications as America's first, as Union clearly offered the first regularly scheduled broadcasts. Singer livingston Taylor . profound thought-\The college death?\ students of today are the \Why? Do I look like I've graduate students of been dead?\ tomorrow.\ \What's your.favorite color?\ Emo ended with a question and answer session. Here's a sample of what was said. \Do you do drugs?\ \No the flashbacks keep me busy enough.\ \Do you believe in life after \Transparent.\ Emo has a very different sort of humor. I won't say whether it was good or bad, but I will say that l laughed a lot. The com- bination of he and \Liv\ Taylor made for a very enjoyable evening. College Choir Performs ByJOYCYBUL On Saturday night, the Union College Choir performed their annual Homecoming concert at 8:00 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel. The choir was directed by Professor Hugh Allen Wilson, who did an outstanding job of keeping everything under contro. Elinore Farnum ac- companied the singers on both the piano and the organ. Elinore did an outstanding job as well as Professor Wilson. \The Silver Swan\ was the opening song, followed by selected pieces from \The Creation\ by Joseph Haydn. There were three solos involved in the presentation of \The Creation.\ Paula Nadeau, Marc Howard, and Joe Murphy all gave flawless performances. This was followed by \Shenandoah written by Linda Spevacek. This was my personal favorite of the evening's repertoire. The choir closed with their rendition of \Allelujia then had Union Alumni come up to the stage to join the choir. They all sang a medley of Union songs, thus bringing to an end another extr-emely successful per- fonnance by the Union College choil·. Valerie Hanna, '91, says that \Hugh's awesome--he really inspires you to sing. In high school I never really worked at it. Here I do because he makes you want to.\ Yes, they work. And yes, they sound amazing. Congratulations on a great performance-keep it up! UNION COLLEGE STUDENT ACTIVITIES/PROCTOR'S THEATER CULTURAL SERIES - 1987-1988 A grant from the Student Forum makes it possible for the Office of Student Activities in conjunction with Proctor's Theater to offer students a sensational series of events at i11credibly low prices. All undergraduate Union College students are invited to take advantage of this unique opportunity. How to purchase tickets: Tickets will be available to UC students 10 days prior to a performance at the Information Booth in the College Center Atrium. A student I. D. must be shown when purchasing tickets. No ticket reservations will he accepted over the telephone. (Tickets will be held at the Information Booth for 24 hours only). There are no refunds for tickets that are sold 1:1nless the performance at Proctor's is cancelled. Cash or personal checks are acceptable forms of payment; personal checks should be made payable to Union College and used with college \.D. In most cases, top price tickets have been purchased, so that seating should be good. Feel free to use the Proctor's Theater seating diagram, available at the Information Booth, when selecting your tickets. Unsold ticket clause: Tickets that remain unsold 48 hours prior to performance time will be available for purchase by any Union College employee. the price of the tickets will be equal to the College purcha§e price . ~~t:iEQY Lt;; STAFF EVENT DATE TIME FACULTY PRICE STUDENT PRICE Beehive 11/18 BPM $9.00 $4.50 Waves 11/19 BPM $7.00 $3.50 King and I 1/28 BPM $9.00 $4.50 Big River 2114 7PM $18.00 $9.00 Mummenschanz 2/25 7PM $7.00 $3.50 Festival on Ice 3104 BPM $19.50 $9.75 Dave Brubeck 4/16 BPM $12.00 $6.00 South Pacific 4/21 BPM $22.50 $11.25 Momix 5/05 BPM $7.00 $3.50 Canadian Brass 5113 BPM $9.00 $4.50 0 0 ..c. 0.. (]) ·= LL

CONCORDIENSIS, Octob~r 15, 1987 Page 13 ARTS/FILMS Sp:ecial Concer~ Assignments R.E.M. a.,t Radio· City Music Hall U2· at The Carrier ·come ByUl\IDERDOG Radio City Music Hall on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue is an e:x:ceptional environment for enjoying loud music. Although the ticket Pfices are often steep, the acoustics are remarkable ,r and· the setting is historic. Upon entrance,. even the rowdy crewds ar~ quelled by the .plush. carpeting, the ·elaborate wall :hangings and uniformed ushers who escort you to your seat. The seating. is div(ded into four vertically stacked mezzanines and one enormous floor area. From the stage, the walls curve outwards like an ancient am- pitheater. R.E.M. opened with 'Finest Worksorig' ·from their latest release entitled \Document.'' As the band played, the wo.rds 'w~nt' and 'need' alternately flashed Gn the projection screen behind the band; Lead singer ~chael Stipe is apparently obsessed withwords as they ar~ often used in the rare R.E.M. videos. . The band chose an intense opening number and the dim .lighting .forced the audience to watch the dancing silhouettes. In fact; it wasn't until the third song that the stage was com- pletely. illuminated. They continued to cover a lot of material from ''Life'sRich Pageant\ (sic.) and its predecessor \Fables of the Reconstruction/' Most songs were ' accompanied by a relevant slide show on the backdrop; the most memorable of which was 'It's the End of the World as We Know It {And I Feel Fine}' to which half-second images of random cable · 1'V channels were flashed. This seemed to please the crowd as did 'Superman' to which ev~yone sang along. Thjs is the second tour that R.E.M. has employed the slides in the background, and the first time that I have seen such an elaborate smoke and light show. For example, duriJlg the \Firehouset\ chorus Qf 'Odd- fellows tocal, 151,' the stage was lit up in firehouse red. All this 'smoke and mirrors' is a far cry from the \FableS'' tour which featured depressing light- ing designed by Stipe to barely illuminate the band. The icing on the whole con- cert was the opening act. 10,000 Maniacs (Oct. 1, 1987 Record Review) and lead singer Natalie Merchant entranced the audience with her musical stories .and Robert Buck's jangling guitar. Natalie has a little dance for ev.ery song as well as a costume change. Their show included an appeamace ·by Stipeto complete a duet with Natalie in 'A Campfire-Song.' . When the .show ended, the college-age crowd poured onto Fifth Avenue which is one of the few places that i$ big enough to engulf such a. gathering. We hopped into . a horse drawn carriage and reminisced about the performance. By AMY GOLDSTEIN \.Am~zing\ is the wqrd that comes to mind when asked, ''How was the concert\? U2 was the main attraction at the Syr.acuse University Carrier · Dome last Fridaynight, playing to a sold out crowd of screaming fans. r had bee~. looi?ng for- ward to seeing U1e $hoW for weeks since I bad .oJJtained my tickets, and the . 'Shvw did not disappoint. Starting at ,7 :(}(), the opening acts of Stevie Van .2ant and Los Lobos incited :the crowd to about the 'full ri()t' pllase by the time U2 tqok the sU!ge at 10:00~ Opening with tile so11g \Where the Streets Have No Name,'' U2 immediately brought the crowd to its feet. The song selection consisted mainly of new songs off of the \Joshua Tree'' LP; as well as some old favorites such as: \Sunday Bloody Sunday\ and\NewYear's Day.\ U2 also added some twists to the · show: segueing an in- Rock group U2 performed at Syracuse on Friday strumental version of the Star Spangled Banner into their song \Bllllet the Blue Sky,\ an,d covering the Beatie's song . \Help!\ On \Help!\ Bono shed his sling that he wore (from a receQ.t fall) to pick some chords on tlle.guitar. H()we~er, he tired . and required the assistance of a ·luck:y girl in the audience. . Teaching her the chords she ~ finished the S()llg p1aying his guitar! One thing that l took pote of for future reference is that the ne:x:t time I attend a U2 concert, I'm going to bring an enormous \Amnesty International\ banner. Why? Be~ause it is practically a free ticket to get up on ·stage. Boao 1ive.d up to his reputation of gettin~ the crowd involved. Bono, The Edge. Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr .. have become the new \Fab Four\ · judging from the decibles of screaming that went on. The two hour ride to Syracqse was more than worth it. I lefl the Dome with a hoarse voice and tired feet, but feeling totally satisfied. WRUC. Celebrates Birthday wheeled the carriage through brodeast. until World War II downtown Schenectady. The · began. WRUC returned to the carriag~ collta~ed a ttiliing · air in January of 1947 from device, a vacuum tube am- Washb11rn Hall, which stood in plifier, one baby, and storage front of where the library now batteries. · stands. The station later moved 11 1t~ IS HAIR' FORMINIJ!\ \IJEUDflrllll NIOH-$PIRHED ENTEHIAINMENTJ A IIAJl DF FUN AND FROUCI WACW ANb OUfflA()Efill$ WITH A HYSTERICAl Ali'ITHINIJ-fiOE$ By BOB GOLDSTEIN America's first radio station, WRUC,. celebrated its 67th birthday yesterday, October 14th. WRUC began broad• casting as 2ADD from a small shack behind the college's electrical en~ineering building, near where the Idol now stands. An antenna str1mg between two trees hurled jazz to local monitors and as far as Hart- ford, Conn., 105 miles from campus. The first broadcasts ran on Thursday nights from a p.m. to8:30 p.m., and were hear . from as far· as South Dakota. Three broadcasts were aired before KDKA signed in Pitt- sburgh with the results of the Harding..:Gox presidential election, which was also aired from the Union station. On November 14, 1920 the station broadcased the Union-Hobart football game, one of the first sports broadcasts in America. The following spring, students staged the . ''Baby Carriage Incident'' which was reported in newspapers around t)le world. On May 26, 1921, radio club members disguised a radio receiver in a baby carriage, and TP,e station continued to to Old Gym Hall, which now SE/1$'£ OF FUN/\ Stephen Holden, New York Times W,INN.ER 4 19111i :()U1ER CRITICS' CIRClE lWARDS Jnc:Jucllng BEST OFF·I3RIIl\DWAY MUSICl\L! WRUC members meet (Circa 1955). houses the admissions office, until its move to Carnegie Hall (now known as \College Cen- ter\) bl: 1974. WRUC changed from 640 AM to 90.9FM in 1975, operating at 10 watts until1983, · when it changed to its current 100 watts, at 39;7 FM. On this past Saturday, a homecoming reception welcomed many alumni of WRUC, including Mr. Ralph Be1111ett, winner of the 1921 Bailey Prize, and vice-president of the raclj.o ~tation when ~t began in 1920. International ~Film Festival This Week: Wedn.esday, October 21 Fellini, La Strada (1954) Federico October 28 ln.gmor Bergman, The Seventh Seal (1956) NoveMber 4 . Jean-Luc Godcrd~. B·reathless 09..5~) November 11 November 18 . '' Franc;ois Truffou1, 400 Blows (1959) Michelangelo Antonioni, L'avventura C~ 960) . ·'

CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1987 Page 13 ARTS/FILMS Special Concert Ass'lgnments R.E.M .. at Radio City Music Hall · U2 at The Carrier Dome By UNDERDOG Radio City Music Hall on Manhattan's Fifth Avenue is an exceptional environment for enjoying loud m.usic. Although the ticket prices are often steep, the acoustics are remarkable · andthe setting is historic. Upon eEtrance, even the rowdy crowds are quelled by the plush rarpC'ting, the' elaborate' wall h<mgings and uniformed ushers who escort you to your seat. The seating is divided into four vertically stacked mezzanines a:tild one enormous floor area. Frolll the stage, the walls curve outwards like an ancient arn- p:Hheater. R.E.M. opened with 'Finest Worksong' froin their latest release entitled \Document.'~ As the band played, the words 'want' and 'need' alternately flashed on the projection screen behind the band. Lead singer Michael Stipe is apparently obsessed withwords as they are often used i:n the rare R.E.M. videos. The band chose an intense ope11ing number and the dim lighting forced the audience to watch the dancing silhouettes. In fact, it wasn't until the third song that the stage was com- pletely iBuminated. They continued to cover a lot of material from \Life'sRich Pageant\ (sic.) and its predecessor \Fables of the R~construction.\ Most songs were accompanied by a relevant slide show on the l>ack:drop; the most memorable of which was 'lt's the End of the World as We Know It (And I Feel Fine)' to which half-second irnages of random cable TV channels were flashed. This seemed to please the crowd as did 'Superman' to whkh every()ne sang along. This is the second tour that R.E. M. has employed the slides in th{' background, and the first time that I have seen such an elaborate sm()ke and light show. For example, during the \Firehouse! •• c.borus of 'Odd- fellows Locall!il,' the stage was lit up in firehoase red. All this 'smoke and mirrors' is a far cry from the \Fables\ tour which featured depressing light- tog designed by Stipe to barely illuminate the band. The icing on the whole con- cert was the O(lening act. 10,000 Maniacs (Oct 1, 1987 Record Review) and lead singer Natalie Merchant entranced the andience witll her musical stories and Robert Buck's jangling guitar. Natalie has a little dance fc;r every song as well as a costume change. Their show included an appearnace by Stipe to complete a duet with Natalie in' A Campfire Song.' When the show ended, the college-age cr()wd poured onto F]fth Avenue which is one of the few places that is big enough to engulf such a gathering. We hopped into a horse drawn carriage and r-eminisced about tile performance. By AMY GOLDSTEIN \Amazing\ is the word that comes to mind when asked, \How was the concert\? U2 was the main attraction at the Syracuse University Carrier Dome last Friday night, playing to a sold out crowd of screaming fans. I had been looking for- ward to seeing the show for weeks since I had obtained my tickets, and the show did not disappoint. Starting at 7:00, the opening acts of Stevie Van Zant aRd Los Lobos incited the crowd to about the 'full riot' phase by the time U2 took the stage at 10:00. Opening with the song \Where the Streets Have No N arne,\ U2 immediat.ely brought the crowd to its feet. The song selection consisted mainly of new songs off of the \Joshua Tree\ LP; as well as so-me old favorites such as: \Sunday Bloody Sunday\ and \New Year's Day.\ U2 also added some twists to the show: segueing an in- Rock group U2 performed at Syracuse on Friday strumental version of the Star Spangled Barmer into their song \Bullet the Blue Sky,\ and covering the Beatie's song \Help!\ On \Help!\ Bono shed his sling that he wore (from a recent fall) to pick some chords on the guitar. However, he tired and required the assistance of a lucky girl in the audience. . Teaching her the chords she finished the song playing his guitar! One thing that I took note of for future reference is that the next time I attend a U2 concert, I'm going to bring an enormous \Amnesty International\ banner. Why? Because it is practically a free ticket to get up on stage. Bono Jived up to his reputation of getting the crowd involved. Bono, The Edge, Adam Clayton and Larry Mullen Jr. have become the new \Fab Four\ judging from the decibles of screaming that went on. The two hour ride to Syracqse was more than worth it. I left the Dome with a hoarse voice and tired feet, but feeling totally satisfied. WRUC Celebrates Birthday 11 'Jt.~ IS HABff FORM/NOt' 11 DEUCHTFUL HIGH-SPIRffED EIITEfffAINMENT! A HAll OF FUN AND FROUC! WJICI{)I AND OUTRAfJEOU$ WITH A HYSTERICAl ANYTHINC-COES By BOB GOLDSTEIN America's first radio station, WRUC, celebrated its 67th bir-thday yesterday, October 14th. WRUC began broad- easting as 2ADD from a small shack behind the college's eledrical engineering building, near where the Idol now stands. An antenna strung between tw<l trees hurled jazz to local m()nitors and as far as Hart· ford, Conn., 105 miles from carnpus. The first broadcasts ran on Thursday nights from ~ p.m. to 8:30p.m., and were hear from as far as South Dakota. Three broadcasts were aired before KDKA signed in Pitt· sburgh with the results of the Harding-Cox presidential election, which was also aired from the Union station. On November 14, 1920 the station l>roadcased the Union-Hobart football game, one of the first SJl()ftS broadcasts in America. The following spring, students staged the \Baby Carriage Incident\ which was reported in newspapers around the world. On May 26, 1921, radio club members disguised a radi<l receiver in a baby carriage, and wheeled the carriage through downtown S~henectady. The carriage contained a tuning device, a vacuwn tube am- Jllifier, one baby, and storage batteries_ The stati()n continued to brodcast until World War II began. WRUC returned to the air in January of 1947 from Washburn Hall, which stood in front of where the library now stands. The station later moved to Old Gym Hall, which now -- Jl f ~--~- :.;p~·~. .. . I '.:I ~ ~ t ; c. ~ ..1.. SEN$£ OF FUN/\ Stephen Holden, New York Times ~.~.~ . -·!$~·~ WINNER~~ 4 1986 OUTER CRITICS' CIRCLE AWARDS Including BEST OFF-BROADWAY MUSICAL! WRUC members meet (Circa 1955). houses the a<imissions office, llntil its move to Carnegie Hall (now known ~s \College Cen- ter\) in 1974. WRUC changed from 640 AM to 90.9FM in 1975, O'perating at 1() watts until1983, when it changed to its current HlO watts, at 8!).7 FM. On this past Saturday, a homecoming reception welcomed many alumni of WRUC, including Mr. Ralph Bennett, winner of the 1921 Bailey Prize, and vice-president of the radio station when it began in 1920. '!4 FUN-FEST FOR CATHDUCS AND NON-CATHOliC$ AliKEJ\-~u: International Film Festival This Week: Ocfo,ber 21 Wednesday, Fellini, La Strada Federico October 28 November 4 November 11 November 18 (1954) lngmar Bergman, The Seventh Seal (1956) Jean-Luc Godard, Breathless (1959) Francois Truffaut, 400 Blows (1959) Michelangelo Antonioni, l'owentura (1960)

Page 14 CONCORJ)JENSJS, Ocfober 15, 1987 ARTS/FILMS Mountebanks P.resents WhyNott? By now, you have probably seen many of the black and white \Why Nott?\ posters, and ' have even figured out that ''Why Nott?\ is the slogan for Mountebanks' Theatre Fest '87 ,· October 29-November 1. You still may be slightly confused, though, about several ·things, such as why we, the Moun- tebanks, chose the slogan, \Why Nott?·\ and what exactly we are planning to do for this theatre fest (besides a talent show). Well, we're finally going to let you know what's going on. Halloween weekend). We will soon announce when and where you can make your reservations and what will be served. We are very much at debt to Jan Gray and Union College Food Service for helping us bring this op- portunity to you. Another opportunity for new experience that we are offering is a Mountebanks' Cabaret so that you can see us on stage, without tbe elaboration of a usual production. It won't be just actors on stage, for the crew members of various .past shows will also perform. We hope it will be a great show, although perhaps a little dif- ferent than the usual Cabaret. By JMMACLAUGHLIN . Surre11der-starring Sally - Field, Mi~hael. Caine, Steve GutteliiJerg and Peter Boyle. Rated PG-13. At Crossgates Mall Onema, and Hellman TheatrEs. ThE'lrE is something to be said about movies like \Surrender but. wl-.at it is this reviewer is not quite sure. Sure, the film provides some big-name stars in the form of Field and Caine, well :known support from . Guttenberg and Boyle, and a pleasant, humorous story. The prQblern is: Is that all the film provides? After the inovie is Jim and Bud~~ty at The Movies that they assembled,. th.ey could simply allow the movie to asexuallyproduee. What ap- pears on screen, h!lwever, Is a jumble pastlche of scenes that give the impressioll of a two hour 'preview,' (like the kind that appear before the feature fi:lm). The basic prentise of '\Surrender\ coniCerns the .colliding love-lives of Caine and Field. One one haml is Caine; a rich author who gets taken to the cleaners in court by ex-wives, ~and one the other hand is Field'; a frustrated artist stuck with a loaded egotistical lawyer (Guttenbe~g) for a boyfriend. 'Ebe two meet through absurd coincidence; a · robbery . where they are tied together naked, a11d. (~urprise, surprise) they fall in love. For the remainder of tile movie the two characters spe!ld mote time concerned ablluttheir own seem to be having a 'hard time acting convinced; and the reflection of their apathy reflects in the performances. This is. especially true ofCaine, who seems to have phoned,...in this perform~nce. Tn Woopy Allen's · \Hannah and Her- Sisters,',, Caine delivered a peerless romantic per- formance, F()r example, in the scene .in 'Sisters' between he and :Barbara Hershey .in which she tells him that she has feelings for him, one. actually believes him when he says, \' .. · --; I'm walking on air.\N() such scene- is present in \Surren- der,\ though; leaving the . audience to care very little . about the rel.ationship between Caine and Fields. \Why Nott?\ is actually a· slogan we ~borrowed from a Mountebanks alumnus. He said that too many people were always finding excuses why they shouldn't try new things and seemecl to ·have pat answers for everything •. \Why Nott?\ then, iS an attempt to get everyone to expand their ex- perience a little (at first) and try things one ordinarily wouldn't try. After all, what better time to experiment with new ideas than while in college? No, we don't think everyone should go out and try mind· altering drugs, but only go out and do things you have never done before. Of course, the greatest op- portunity of all is that everyone out there who is not a Moun- tebanks member can show off their talent at the all-campus Talent Show. If you or your organization wishes to put on an act (which can be anything fromlip-sync to tumbling to live bands), let us know soon by calling X4209 or X6980. Perhaps, though, you still only want to sit on the sidelines and watch. Then, come to Memorial Chapel on November 1 at 8:00 and see what your fellow students have for talent. (You may be surprised.) · finished. one ha,s almost no feeling at all as to the cinematic merits of \Surrender.\ 111 essencE, the movie settles for just beillg 'pleasant,' and that is all. This is. not to say that \Surrender\ is a bad movie, it's just nota good one, and that is a shame_ The film plays along as if the producer ·and director believed that with all the talent . monetary futures than with each other. Thus, what would have been a good screwball Thus \Sll.rrender\ disap- points in the fact that it could have been the '''Murphy's ll,omance\ <Jf 1987. However, it is obvipus to the viewer that little care was taken in making, the movie, wasting an excellent cast. Yet, ~ithout -a doubt, ''Surrender~'· will certainly .do: well in the cable and video markets, -()pening the door for more movies of its Uke. . comedy, what..could have been a good light~romance, becomes a nwnbing piece of cinematic muzak. Film Grade: c- . Even the stars themselves For instance, if you have never been to a Dinner Theatre or seen an absurdist comedy, you can come ~ee \The Bald Soprano\ by Eugene Ionesco, at either the 5:00 show or the 7 · 30 . show on October 30 and 31. The cost is only one meal card punch or ten dollars and fifty cen~s. The play w·iH be performed in the Upper Classmen's Dining Hall, but freshmen, of course, are welcome. We encourage dorm floors, clubs, fraternities and sororities to come as groups - in costume or not (as it . is Besides these events, we will also be sponsoring several events in the atrium at The College Center, thanks to the help of Jerri Clark and Lorraine Marra. So, keep looking for more information about Theatre Fest '87. It's all hap- pening October 29-November 1. · Why Nott expose yourself to something new? (Even if you have seen a Union theatre production before, this is bound to be different. ) THE COLOR OF MONEY ... Paul Newman turns in his first Oscar- winning performance by reprising his role from the 1961 cl9:ssic \The Hustler\ as 'Fast' Eddy Felson. In this sequel, t-Jewman bankrolls young pool stwds such as Tom Cruise, teaching the game of \hustling.\ Fri., Sat. & Sun. at 7, 9 & 11' THE POSTMAN ALWA'lS RINGS TWICE. .. Jack Nicholson and Jessica_Lange get it on in this st€1amy remake· of a 1950 movie. lange plays' a bored hoLJsewife who takes. a liki'r:rg. tE Ncicholson as a drifter. The two fal9 in love, but her husband is in the way, and something has to be done ... Tues .. at 7, 9 & 11 ·Get the Facts on AIDS All Movies at Carnegie Center Auditorh.Im. All tickets $1 for Union- students with J.D. •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• • • . c . : rossgates : • • !' Mall Cinema i • • • • : 1 Hell Raiser R 2:05, 4:50, 7:50, 1():25(not Sat.), 12:25 : • The Hidden R Sat. 9:25 • • • : 2 Stake Out R 12:30, 3:35, 6:45, ~\':40 12:20 : • • • • • • • 3 DirtyDancing PG13 1:55,\4:30 • • • • 4 Fatal Attraction R 12:45, 4:00, 7:05, tO:tO, 12:30 • • • : 5 Prom Night II R 1:50,4:40,7:25,9:55,12:05 : • • . ,.. . 6 Someoneto : Watch Over Me R 1:15,4:10, 7:30, 10:20, 12:30 : • • • • • 7 In The Mood PG 13 1:40,4:25,7:15, 10:00,12:10 • • • : 8 The Principal R 1:05, 3:45, 6:20, ~:tO, 11:40 (not Sat.) : • Suspect R Sat. 8:25 • • • : g Like Father, Like Son PG 13 1:30, 4:05, 6:40, 9.:15, 11:30 ! • •• • : 1 o Princess Bride PG 1:00, 3:35, 6:50, 9:35, 11:50 8 • • : 11 30'CiockHigh PG 13 12:50, 3:50, 6:55, 9:25, 11:35 : : 12 Surrender PG 12:35,3:20,6:30,8:55,11:50 : . : • • •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• U~ion Colleg,e Independent Theatre Announces an Organizational Meeting Music by Craig Carnelia- Micki Grant - Mary Rogers Susan Birkenhead - Stephen Schwa~;tz and James Ta lor Thursday, October 15, 19'87 325 Seward Place, 2nd Floor- 8:00 pm Many varied roles, both singing and non-singing available. Positions on technical crew an:d orchestra staff also open. }'()t more ihformati()n call Evan Pickus at 372-7111

CONCORDIENSIS, O~tober 15, 1987 . . Friday Night is . . ' Dutchman's Dinner . Night / 5:80 & 7:00 • Prime Rib • Shrimp • Steaks Meal Card· Punch or $11.00 Make your ·reservations with Dutch Hollo·w Restaurant Cashier. Call your' mummy. You remember. She was alwaysthere when you were frightened. And if you got hurt, she was standing by with ban- dages. Wouldn't it feel good to talk to your mother again right now? Calling over AT&T Long Distance Service probably . costs less than you think, too. And if you have any questions about AT&T rates or service, a customer service repre- sentative is always standing by to talk to you. Just call 1800 222i()30Q. Sure, your scl1oolwork and· your friends keep you busy. But call home and find out what she's wrapped up in. Als.T The right choice. Page 15 DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLl:A:N.ING AN\D TAILOfUNG GRADUATE STUDIES IN BI,OMED'JCAL RES:EA.RCH Basic Medical Science Departm~~t Active. Research Programs · Seeking Qualified Applicants· Tuition and Stipend Support Av~itable For Furtt:ler lnformation Co11tact: Graduate ·Committee Department of Physiology Albany Medica1 College Albany, N.Y. 12208 (518-445-5651) Attention Meal Card Holders Extend A Treat Invite your favorite faculty members to eat where Union's eiite meet Guest passes for faculty members may be obtained in the Dining Service ()ffice between 8:30 am and 12 noon or bel\Neen 1 :00 pm and 4:30 pm Monday througll Friday .at the College Center Room202 Take advantage of your ability to take a faculty member to lunch by simply presenting your meal card and ID anc::l·requestin~ a faculty guest pass. • ••••••••• Have an • • optnton on some,thing you've read? Write a letter to the editor . ••••••••••

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 15, 1987 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS New Jersey Depattment of Higher Education-annoWlces the competition for 1988-89 Garden State Graduate Fellowships. Recipients are awarded $6000 annually and the grants are renewable up to four years. Recipients must be New Jersey residents and must attend a New Jersey graduate school on a full .. time basis in a course of study other than a professional degree program. Application deadline is March 1, 1988. For applications contact the Financial Aid Office. , Society for the Advancement of Material and Process Engineering-announces its · annual.scholarship competition. . Nineteen $1000 scholarships will be awarded to college students pursuing courses leading to a career in Material and Process Engineering. Primarily the awards are for technical ac- complishment rather than financial need. Applications must be postmarked no later than February 1, 1988. For more information and applications contact: Jim Bell, National Scholarship AwardS' Chair, 5300 Forge Rd., Whitemarsh, MD 21162. Scholarships, Intem-GRE Fee Waivers for test dates through Sept. 1988 may be applied for at the Financial Aid Office. The Waiver covers the test fees for either the General Test, a Subject Test, or both. There is only one waiver allowed per eligible student. Financial need for the waiver must be established by the Financial Aid Office. Contact Ellen Frishberg, Director of Financial Aid at X6123 or Becker Hall, 2nd floor for more info. Department of the Navy-- announces a new program entitled the Bachelor Degree Commissioning Program • (BDCP) .. This program is open • to students starting their junior · year. Its purpose is to provide minority students with financial . assistance while working · towards a bachelors degree. · There is a service commitment . of four years for most · programs. For more in- 1 formation call: Lt. Ricb Patsy, at (518) 472-4425 or 472-4426. · This program is not an ROTC program and. is for the cuiTent • academic year. FellDwsbips- The Ford . Fou.nclation announces its an- nual mmpetition for· doctoral and postdoctoral fellowships for · minorities. There will be 40 predoctoral fellowships and 10 dissertation fellowships awarded to qualified minority candidates for 1988-39. Awards will lle made for study in research-based doctoral programs in the behavioral and social sciences, humanities, engineering, mathematics, physical sciences, and biological sciences. Application . deadline is November 13, 1987 For more in.formation and appli~ations contact: The Fellowship Office, National · Research Council, 2101 Con- stitution Ave. Washington, DC 204:18. ( 202) 334-2872. . Fenowships-The American· Assembly of Collegiate Schools of Business is administering sixteen fellowships under the Natiollal Doctoral Fellowship Program in Business and Management. This is in an. effort to alleviate the critical shortage of doctorally qualified faculty at collegiate schools of business. Students from disciplines other than business and management ar-e urged to apply. Application deadline is January 1, 1988. For morl! in- ' formation, check the Financial Aid bulletin board in Becker Hall or- stop in at the Financial Aid Office. Hetbet H. Lehman Fellowships-The New York State Education Department annoUllces thirty new Herbet H. h I Are you considering professlelnal school? I I : ~. HARVARD UNIVERSITY JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT Is Looking for Future Leaders in Public Affairs. ComeLeamAboutHarvard'sTii,.o-YearMaster's Program in Public Policy, Leading to either the Master in Public pqJicy or City and Regional Planning Degree. I.OINT DEGREE OPTIONS AND CROSS-REGIS'IRATION OPPOR1t.JNITIES wrrH 01'HER SCHOOLS MEET WITH A KENNEDY SCHOOL REPRESENTATIVE - Moo, ,OcltU TIMEr lt00Dll30 LOCATION: PLEASE CONTACT YOUlt CAREER PLACEMENT OWICEFOJt TIDS INFOBMA110N All Students, All Majors, AllY cars Welcome} ~ f • • • ~ Lehman Graduate Fellowships for study in the Social Sciences and public and international affairs fields. The stipend for four full years totals $19;000 with som~ i,nstitutions providing supplemental income. For the 1988-89 award year, candidates must be legal residents of New York State, -receive a bachelor's degree no later than September 1988, and not have entered graduate study before the 19UI summer term. For moJ.1e in· fo.rmation and applications contact: Higher and Professional Education Testing Bureau, Cultural Education Center, Albany, NY 12230. Howard Hughes Scholar- ships-Approximately 'oO Doctoral Fellowships will be awarded in an international competition sponsored by tile Howard Hughes Medical Institute (HHMI) and ad- ministered by the National Research. Council. The goal of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Doctoral Fellowships in Biologicai Sciences Program · is to support the education of . outstanding prospective in- vestigators to ensure the strength and vigor of the poCll for biomedical reseaFch. HHMI welcomes applications from all qualified individuals an:d strongly encourage~ members of minority groups and women to compete fully in~ this program. Write to: ·Hughes Doctoral Fellowships, The Fellowship Office~ National Research Council, 2101 Con- stitution Avenue, Washingtoli, DC20418,ortelephone (202) 334- 2872. CLUB NEWS Free .Aid Calendar-Students interested In receiving a free aid calendar and information ~n scholarship programs sho11ld send a stamped, business-sized self-addressed envelope to The Scholarship Bank, 4626 N. Grand, Covina, CA 91724. • • \ ' Newmam Club Gam~s · Evening...-'Mr,nday, October 19th at 7 p.m. College Cente~, Room 410 .. Allweleome to join in an eveniJI~ ()f playing yo11r favorite games. . engineering. Application ~n­ . formation is available at the · Financial Aid Office~ Deadline for the 19.88-89 .a ward ap• plication is December 31., 1987, Folk Gr&up-AU singers a11d musicianS~ interested in. beiilg part ofthe.Music Ministry at t!le . 7:30 p.m. Sunday Liturgy lli~Y meet with Friar Phil af 6:30 .· p.m. in t!te church to rehearse. Newmam Overnight Retreot..- Octobe.t 2::J·. and 24 from 5 p.m. Friday Ulltil S p.m. Saturday at St. Anthl()ny-on-Hudson, Ren- sselaer. Theme: Relati()n- ships- God. myself, othel's. Donatioru of $5 when y~11 . register ~ith Sr. Joan. ' Tutorial Program,-Uni 011 . College Stlldents can be used ,ill · the following areas at St. JoJm • · the Eva11gelist School: Kill· ·. • dergarte.u Aides, Computer , Math.,Aidoes, Library Aides and Math and! Reading on a one·ill- . one. Ple;ase contact Kristin Nelson, 3116-4~64. ZONTA lntemational-all- nounces its 1988~89. Amelia. Earhart lF ellowship Award~ competitbll for grants. of $6091) to outstan.:ling women students . for gra duate study itt aerospace-related science 0r BibleStudy & Prayer Group- Union students are welcome to join a par~h group that meets Tuesday evenings, 8: oo:..9: 30 p.m. in St. John's School Library. We are continuing a study of PaUl's Letters as well as the basictenets and. beliefs of the Catholic Faith. Sr. Joan is facilitator. Buffe.t Supper-\S und!ay, October 18 from 5-7 p.m. at St. John the Evangelist Rectory there will be a. buffet supper for Catholic faculty, staff,. their families and students at Union. Please call Religious Programs Office 3'70-'6087 and give name and number attending or send back slip that you received in the mail. Merton Tapes-Anyone who is interested is welcome to join a parish group. that meets Tuesday evenings at 7 p.m. in ·the Library of St. John the :Evange]lst School to listen to tapes of Thomas Merton and to discuss the impact that Mer- ton's insights could have on our lives. Sr. Joan is facilitator. \ . . »000000~~~~~~~»000000~~~~~~~1 ·Why·.· Nott.? ~ A Theatre Fest '87 I Presents ~ Mountebank's Cabaret 1 October 29, 10:00 pm, I College Center m It's nott just guftaJ playing an~ • t t & ~ £~

:·j I ·C()NCORDlENS1S., October 15, 1987 Page 17 PERSONALS _ ..... Peter-Happy 2 yr. an- niversary! Sorry wd can't be together. I miss you terribly arid I love you so much! ··Kathy Good luck on your LSAT's \Mother .. \ Happy birthda.y, Ed! (Is it the I would rather be a backwoods · rfght week tbis time'??) hie than a camel riding Hungari(iR. · \Don't let the past remind us of what we are not now.'' QUQTE OF •.eHE WEEK: \I'm just caUght in the act of being myself.\ M.H. '86 Watcl:t out, Ale:x;;•it's the Elephant Man! J! Orchestra desires French horn and bass. Will supply i:n· struments. Call elct. 6566. Dan!l-How many times did 1 fall? Only 12 bruises! -Lynn Emily ~ooHoo­ HAPPY Birthday!! Dthialyn M-Who '8 at the end of the rainbow? Where did you get all that. vodka'! We're alliiilrii. - Lynn Mona, 1t does not matter which angle I am or you are, so long · as· we st!J,y closely con- nected! Deal'! · Luv,Kt A mi mejor arniga. Aaacck! ! You think if they can put a man on the mQon they could develop a decent .... T.ry · sleeping with · Gizmo! You're the best!! With love in P~E · ·~ -K Guys-! couldn't think of a worthwhile perso~al to put in . this week, but at least I was thinking of you. -Beck Happy birthd~y Lisa. L.ove,Stud Central Marj- Good luck on the LSATs! Beck HT~Wow, you're finally legal! Now you can never get my driver's lic:ense confiscated again ... Marjorie and others, Good luck on the LSATs although I will be suffering in December, I can most definitely sympathize!. -WendyZ. To 1049 University, Thank you for putting up with all my transients this weekend! You guys are great! Luv, Wendy ' Mich, Hey, I really DID miss you. Welcome back to the old UC. Just 2ltz more terms ... Cath Shellster, Jorge & Koostas Friday night was a real trip- literally. Koostas - Someone at the Dome was real happy that night!! -sca~y and Banger Hey Slimo, Hope you recognized this personal as your own. CLASSJF/EDS · Happy belated b-day. Can't say · ------------ I never did anything 'for you. · This was supposed to be in last week. -No escort, thanks S.M. Got a letter from abroad. Moves on my housemate? What's the deal? No escort, again. \The c:J.Uestion is, would you do· it in J>Ublic?\ Hap.py Birthday Helen! . Celebrate it-I never did find that poster in England .... You're· a lifesaver! S: What do you mean-I owe YOU'n Apt. Available Nov. 1. 1 bedroom flat near campus; Unfurnished. No pets. $225 plus security. Call :377-4885. WANTED: 2nd assistant for women's basketball. Man or woman. Learn about the game from a coaching perspective. Call Coach Gehling. Almnni Gymn x6546 or stop by. Preprofessional Mental Health Counselor Traineeships Graduating college seniors . and new graduates are invited to apply for the \live-in\ Preprofessional Resident Advisor counselor Traineeships C. offered at The Devereux MV4-Matt, Lovo, Chris, Steve, and of course May (broken foot and ail)- Good luck at the Charles and Power 10 for the Survival{?) of Union . Crew! We'llbe cheering from the bank with bubbly in hand. -Women's Crew s~ORms: ~~ Foundation in Suburban · Philadelphia, a group of multidisciplinary resjdential and day treatment and rehabilitation centers. Several twelve-month Mental Health Resident Advisor· Counselor Traineeships are available at CAREER HOUSE arid at the CENTER FOR t;,------------0 '(tv 1hiY1~ Yw CANT fer tl. .. Yo¥ (?car:;eM ic.au y) HEAD TRAUMA. Trainees \live-in\ and receive training and supervised . experience in supportive counseling and milieu therapy, crisis in- tervention, residential treat- ment, cognitive remediation, social rehabilitation and ~~creation therapy, and report writ~ng. They participate in case conferences and attend clinical seminars. Experience m_ay also be t}fered in selective job placement~. educational the'rapy, and academic tutoring. Applicants \~th prior experience in expressive lr>edia may be assitned to the Adjunctive Therapies Program .encompassing art and photography. BLOOM COUNTY I. W/1/1-? /)//i/3/?tf. Jotr? \ : TH6 IIMERICIIN /JII55eqpt;: II 5TT?II~6 A~fl AfY57fl?ltJlJ6 f%115r W/711 fiN UNCIINtVY PO/.IT!Cflt. 5/trli 8fN$(' fO!{ · 7H!NG5 Tlillf YO(/ I!MIJ I CIIN ONlY &t/G'5$ fir/ ~------------~ MY 6fK)f) Ot' fRIEN/JiV, ftoWff<f3() 01TOMAAJ .. , WH!Pe lT.tf \... I f?ON'T 1'11?/Jf't WEll- ... I /Ve~P ·CON11NU/fY IN MY t!F6~ . . I Wfi 50UJ IT PfJR/Nr7 )WR f/@5f3NC€. 7HING6 fiK6N'r etf/Crt.V AS 1H~W~ er;FtJf(e/ IINY MOKI! . f/NeXPeCrt/7 Clf!/N665 IINP r MIIY .!VIi G&7\ NI1V5!0V5.(/ \ r;EH[) Wf\OfO '111J$ H-4~Gf? fpj,oVb4f- ~ }bv f;j reau y 5'ff4/hus . 5eJ;,jt\t:>/I'S. &ARYHI{RT IWNOf/NC&:J Cfit!ef/CY I .. f &lli?Y flftKT Hf/:5 t:Nf?(P 1115 C&t.I!MCY. P/3& PIIR/JON{ d A stipend of $600 per month, housing and meals are offered to qualified applicants who are U.S. citizens and at least 21 years of age. Group hospitalization and Major Mecial InsUrance coverage is also provided. Trainees must have the use of a fully insured personal automobile, and should be able to do their own typing. They should have a broad academic base of trainfug and some degree of practical experience in outlined duties. Preference will be given to applicants who plan to make a profession in mental health or related fields and are seeking a comprehensive experiential learning-training experience in supportive mental health services to refine their career objectives. For information and applications write: Director, Institute of Clinical Training and Research, 19 S. Waterloo Road, Box 400, Devon, PA 19333- 0400. Tel: 215-964·3000. $10 - $660 weekly-up mailing circular. Rush self-addressed stamped envelope, Dpt. AN- 7CC-FA, 9300 Wilshire, Suite 47, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. The Film Committee presents: 10..16, 10..17, 10-18, The Color of Money at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. 10..10, The Postman Always Rings Twice, at 7 pm, 9 pm, 11 pm. Tickets are $1.

4 Fencing Club LEAf RA!<€ for c~fnb '.f .the {(COM Anyone Interested in joining the Fencing Club Call Ken or Andrew x4172 Experts or novices ~-A--·---·-·-F~--~ NYSS-AAPT October 17, 1987 Union CoiJege 8:30am: SESSION 1 9:00am: 9:10: 10:00: 10:45-11:05: 11:55-1:15: SESSION 2 1:15 pm: 2:05: 2:45: 3:15: Registration- Lobby of Social Science Building Room SS-016 Social Science Building Damian Nichols (Hudson Valley Community College) Presiding Welcome- David Peak, Chairman, Department of Physics, Union College The Excitement of Physics Richard Mancuso, SUNY College at Brockport A presentation of 15-20 demonstrations that has been made for elementary, middle and high school students Developing New Approaches to Introductory College Physics Robert Resnick, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY Coffee Break LUNCH Room SS-016 Social Science Building Ken EvrulS (Kingston High School) Presiding Space Applications in Introductory Physics Harold .. S. ~tory, SUNY. A, Albany, NY I Indoor Radon in, New York State William Condon, NYS Environmental Conservation Department The New Physics Handbook John Johnston, Nanuet High School, Nanuet, NY Galilee's Incline and Newton's Apple-Laboratory Demonstrations Paul Tyner, Schalrnont High Scllool. Rotterdam, NY · Women's Soccer vs .. Sienna Field Hockey at Williams Women's Tennis at Williams J.V. Soccer vs. RPI Football at RPI Soccer at RPI Women's Soccer at RPI Volleyball at Vassar F:ield Hockey at RPI Women's Tennis at RPI Men's X-Counhy at RPI S ynclironized Swim 'Team Come Swim Witli 'lis Thursday 10/15 Friday 10/16 SaturdaY 10/17 Practices rr'ue.sLay & 'Ifiurstfay 8:30-10:00 3:30 4:00 4:00 3:30 1:30 11:00 1:00 10:00 11:00 12:00 'J{g T.l(perience 9{f,ecfecl

By CHRIS HINCKLEY The 1987 H;ome~oming Weekend. was ()nce again a successful one. l'he social events were well attended as were the athletic events. Undoubtedly the most exciting event of the weekend wc:~s the Homecoming Football game on Saturday wheJ.1e the fighting Dutchmen crushed a retreating WPI team by a score.of 30-17. Although the game seemed . secure from the start with the Dutchmen scoring early, it would not have stay~d that way if it weren't for the leadership · and fine per• formance of quarterback Jim: Poirier. As a result, Jim earned a spot on the weekly ECAC ho~or roll. So, deservingly, the· perfom1ance of Jim Poirier has once agam earned a gridder the award of Athlete of the Week. Against the WPI Engineers Jim had his best game to date, a performance good enough to CONCORI)IENSJS., Octo9er 15., l!JS7 Page 19 he obviously planted a seed in tbe head of the Union coaches. In the first game of the season when it seemed as though Union's QB was . already decided for the year, Jim Showed up as the starter at the half and handed in a per- formance which earned l!im the permanent role as the starting quarterback. ::;;; Since receiving the nod, Jim ~ bas been doing quite well, even e with two ex-starters knocking at ~ the door. After five games Jim ~ has maintained some im- CJ pressive · statistics. He bas a . >- Jim Poirier . :'' ~ total of 714 y.rs., a 55.2 com- .. · · ] pletion percentage and a yards o. per game average of 142.S. settle the quarterback question for at least another week. He threw 26 passes and completed 16 for a 65-percent c:ompletion percentage: He totalled 234)'118., in the air With two touclldown passes. Jim saw time as quarter~ack during his freshman ytiar. Although it was only occasional, Jim is a sophomore here at Union and a Physics major. Most importantly, he is a.native of Schenectady where he at- tended and played ball for Linton Hi:gh School. Congratulations, again, to Jim Poirier for a fine performance on the gridiron last week, and good luck. · . . . . . <!tuncnr~iensis SPORTS The NFL players' strike has bee{)me simply absurd at this point. :Neither side has been wlilling to give in and many pLayers are crossing the picket lines and the stadiums are not as empty as expected. This past wEebmi was the third for the striking players and the second fo-1' the replacement players. Tile attendance is not anywhere . . ~Not In the Box Score by Mark Zimmerman went into the strike 0:2 they are now ato-4 and.arethe only team without a vict<)fy. Bill Parcells has said the reason for this is that he had mCJre important things to do during pre-season than form a scab team. .... Theoretically, this sounds logical.· However, it will probably cost him his chance at winning back-to-hack Super Bowls. This week should be the turning point in · the strike. Several players are expected to return this week, including Lawrence Taylor. The pople in the worst position are the rookies. Players like Brian Bosworth, wh() ar\e not yet allied Women Ruggers Shut Out Colgate · near nonnal but it has been S()mewhat surprising. More and more fans are realizing that these games are going to count on the record no matter who finishes the season and thus are tuming out to see who their new players are .. Gene Upshaw is obvio11sly aware of this as well because this past Monday night, he issued .a statement that was the first breakthrough since the strike began. He said that he was willing to let tne strike be settled through mediation. In addition, Upshaw required t;hat every player who was rein- st~ted wollld be on the roster for the remainder of the season. \In my opinion, Upshaw and the rest of the NFL players are getting extremely nerwus and riglltly so. Firstly, the ratings ar-e down on every network. This should be a plus for the pl11yers but it ~ not. Many people have adopted the at- titude that this season is illegitimate anyway and no m11tter who wins theSuper Bowl it'~ not who shoUld have. Take to the Union or the management. simply want to play football and get their careers undemay. A small yet important point was noticed by NBC's Charlie Joaes this weekend. He said that if the replacement players play one more game then they will be eligible for half playoff shares if their team wins the Super Bowl. This would hold true even if they were c11t the following week. If the union does not settle this strike before this weekend they will have one additional proflll:lm to deal with. Some of the replacement players are playing sur- prisingly well. If tlle str'ike were . . . By MAlA ENZER and CAROLYN SCHAAF WE WON !! The Union College Women's Rugby Club beat Colgate, 8-0, on last Wednesday evenillg on Library Field. This game was a radical change in team performance from the previous week's game at Plattsburgh- but we won't talk about that. CQlgate kicked off to Union and we got possession of the ball, and kept it. Throughout the game we saw the women demonstrate their ability to be aggressive. So, although we did not always win the ball in the serurndowns and tineouts, we were able to recapture the ball with some good tackles. In the first half we -saw one of Women's X- .. Country Takes Second· at CD Meet A missed tum cost the Union women's cross-country team a possible victory in the Capital. District Meet held last Friday at the Saratoga State Park. The lady Dutchmen finished in a second place tie with Siena College. scoring 45 points, close behind Albany State, who won with 37 points. Union's Jenny Lee was leading the race by 50 yards with a half mile remaining. However, she took a - wrong tum on the winding course, which cost her a certain victory. Lee recovered to finish tenth with a time of 20:25.on the 5;000 · meter course, · but the damage to the team score had been done. Despite the mistake, the small Union team ran very strongly as a grQup. Freshman Kara Merrill was Union's top finisher, placing third . with a time o( 19:27. Eileen Brady's time of 19:48 placed her close behind Merrill in. siXth place. Following Lee's lOth place finish· were Sherl'y Cargile and J en Regan, who finished 16th and 17th With time~ of 21:12 and 21:17, respectively; . The women's cross-country team Will have thiS weekend off, · whilethe men's teatn is back in action tom,dr..r.ow. The Out- our most aggressive players, Kristin Nelson (second :r:ow) score a try, The ent1re scrlllll played well, considering that the field was more of a mud puddle than a rugby field. Hence rookie Tracee Petrillo was dubbed ''MudnPack\ after a tackle which put her facE to the ground. The line demonstrated, for the first time this sea.son, consistent defensive work. Rookie Krisin Peterson (wing) scored a try in the secon~ half. The most important thing was that the line was talking to each other and completing their passes.. We saw a very good game by rookie Amanda, ~ur imported outside center. We also saw a notable rookie . performance by Kristin Santos (prop). Rookie fUllback Karin came through on the kickoffs. The veterans feel that she has the potential to be another Okie .by spring season. We would especially like to thank Tom Muzzonigro for jumping out of bed to referee our\ game. Thanks to all the spectators who came and gave their support. We would also like to thank Charls, our South African friend for donating his Ume, energy, and patie11ce to the team. · This game was a good one, and our rookies got a chance to show what they have learned. The team has a lot of potential and. we hope that more women at Union will join the club. Practice~ are at 4 o 1 clock every day at the fl..agpole. . the Jets, for example. Going into the strike, they were 2-0. Now they stand at 2-2. The Gi:ants are probably in just as bad a position. Although they to continue and tllis season was totally lost, next year's rosters may have some new talent on them. My advice is to stick with Union's football teams this w~ekend; at least we know who's playing. Field Hock~y Enjoys Success & Make-s H.istory The 1987 Union Field Hocley team has made history. They have become the first Union women's athletic team ever to be ranked. The teatn now stands with a 5 and 2 re<cord. Recent action saw two victories and one defeat for the Lady Dutchmen. · On their home turf, Union played host to Oneonta. The teams were tied at one g().al apiece until the 53-second mark when an Oneonta forw~rd decided the match. Union'sgCJal was scored by sophom.ore . · Alison PaUotta, who, along li\'ith junior · fullback DaniElle · Lavigne and freshman mid- fielder Carolyn Hardy tllrne€1 in sparkling }lerformances. 'The team then travelled to Poughkeepsie and after soine technical transportation (!if .. ficulties succeeded in arriv:lng . Support Union College Athletics· chmen will be taking on RPI on the 8000 meter course at Saratoga. at Vassar. Union ended up coming away with a 1-0 victory ever the Brewers, the sole goal being· scored by jUnior f~>rward Kris Tierney. Tierney, along with senior co-captain Carolyn Zutell dazzled the crowd with flashy stickwork and aggressive play. Back on their llollle turf, the Lady Dutc1unen faced a to!Jgh op;ponent. Hartwick arrived at Union hungry for a victory. However, the Union girls came out quite strong from the beginning of the game and at half-tim~, led 3-l. The second half. saw some more intense competition. With the final whistle~ the score was a closer 4-3, in favor of Union. Union's goals were scored by junior forward Courtney Lynch, Pallota, Tierney and sophomore mid-fielder Ellen. Tapley. Sophomore sweeper Monica Zifcak played a solid defensive game with fine offensive per- formances turned in by Tierney and Pallota. Congratulati()ns to the Lady Dutchmen on the rankings and good luck at Williams today. MEN·s TENNIS TEAM TRY-OUTS, OCT. 23-24 . . ' The Men's Tennis Team lry-Outs will be held this year at the courts on Friday, Oct. 23rd at 3:30pm- 6pm and Saturday, Oct. 24th. noon- 6 pm.lf Friday is rained out. please meet~ at noon, on Saturday. The try-out will be in the form of competitive play where those with the best scores w~ll be taken on the 10 man team. Tennis is a spring sport with the season beginning mid-February and ending the first week of May. If there are any problems with the time or questions, please call the tennis coach, Anna Means, 377-4761 in the evenings before 10 p.m.

,; (. • d;o·~ Homecomh•g Victory Lifts Dutchmen to 3-2 0 ove • • • Dutchmen down By ANDREW MILLER The final chapter of the WPI- Union rivalry was played out last Saturday in front of a homecoming crowd of 4;000 people. The game, to all .those sitting on the visitors' side of the . field, will not soon be forgotten. The memory will nll!t linger from the 30-17 whipping that the Dutchmen handed to the Engineers. It will uot be revered as the turning ,point in a confusing '87 campaign. The outstanding performances of Jim LaFrance, Jim Poirier, and Rich Romer will not lle haun- ting the back of yo1JI\ mind '\\*'ry time you WSI.tch a football 32 ~ 0 c f! ::X:: 0 <D ... (!) ~ ~ ~!Jk::,tiCft l ..c - ·--Wilt.'. . 0 '',''; .. \>'··''· .· : •• ',.';\· -· highlight fihn. · This game will be remembered for an incident, an incident involving coaches, players and a program. The scoring commene!ed in grand fashion as Union's defensive field genel\al Rich Romer broke in Ulllllolested, took a WPI punt in the.stomach, scooped up the ball and staggered to the Engineers' 9- yard line. One play later, tailback DaiTell Shepmerd took .the option pitch and waltzed in untouched for the score. The Bob AnderSon kick was good and the Dutchmen took the early 7..0 lead. The WPI defense seemed to settle down · after tile qUick score, stopping Union .in three plays on their next drive. Their optimism was short lived as a roughing the kicker call gave the Dutchmen a second life. Matt Smith broke out all alone ontheleftflatand scampered to the 25 before he caught his toe in the turf. An intentional grounding call on quarterback Jim Poirier pushed Union back to the 40. Poirier and Smith would · make up for th,eir mistakes two plays later as the sophomore signal caller threaded a 10-yard needle to Smith for the score with 3 :02left in the first. With the Dutchmen up 14-0 a battle of defenses ensued until the end of the first quarter. The defensive show was highlighted by Union's first teal!' Associated Press All-Americr Rich Romer. Romer,· besid~s the blocked punt, had seven- first hits, five assists and one punishing second quarter sack. His sack pushed his team's leading total to 6. The defensive aggressiveness of both teams set the intensity for the ensuing \memorable event.\ The down was 3rd, and the yardage to go was 10. WPI quarterback Randy Plasse lofted a floater toward the Engineers; bench. The Union corner shadowed the WPI wide receiver to the sideline. The two players, in an attempt to catch the overthrown pass were carried into the WPI bench by their momentum. Out of frustration, the Engineer receiver exchanged words with .October 15, 1987 ost WPI 30-17 the Union ce>mer, resulting in a shove by the WPI player. From there the roof came down. The WPI offensive coordinator came from behind the Union player and struck him on the head. This led to a clearing of the benches and a heated ex:- change of solidarity hand- shakes. Not to be left out, the WPI def-ensive coordinator got involved in a hockey-type brawl. In his attempt to ward- off the oncoming players he found himself being led to the ground with his shirt pulled over his head. Minor skirmishes ensued as the teams tangoed over the astro-turf dance fl()or. When· the dust had cleared, Union was assessed a 15-yard personal fe>lll. The call was clearly in error, but the results _ . of the skirmish were evident. The incident was clearly an embarrassment to the WPI football program and more specifically the school. To watch the WPI coaches .go at it with the Union players; then to look across the field at the disgust in a serene Coach Bagnoli' seyes, summed up why the Union football program is one that is respected throughout the league. The WPI coaches declined to comment after the incident. · After the fight a football game broke ·out. The charged-up Engineers fought back with t;w~ quick touchdown runs commg at the .feet of quarterback Randy Plasse. Plasse .used. the option fake to break opento11ch• down runs o:f 19 and 52 yards t-o tie the scQre at 14 apiece at the half. With one mihute left in the hall Union drove the ball 82 yards in 12 plays culminating in a l-yard Shepherd run. Union's first.possession of the second half added to their 21·14 halftime advantage. Sparked by clutch receptions by Jim LaFrance, the Dutchmen were able to get inside the range of field goal kie!ker Bob Anderson. Anderson made good on a 37· yard att-empt to push the seore to 24-14. Union's defense again held tough as the Engineers were forced to . punt. The Out• chmen's second ·possession resulted in six more as Poirier found senior flanker Cecil Bright over the middle for a 42· yard touchdown. The Anderson kick. failed. A field goal by WPI O.utlast Clarkson 2-1 . Huns Set Record; Lose 3 Straight By JOHN GABRON ball out of a scrumdown and ran it in again for the try. The For the first time in over nine conversion was not good 1;1nd season, Union's Men's Rugby when the first half ended, Union team h~s lost three games in a · was behind, ·a-6. row. Union's most recent loss The second half· .was .filled came last Saturday· when they with exciting up and down traveled to Oneonta for rugby with both teams getting homecoming. The Union Huns close to the try line, but not lost, 23-18. being able to put lt in. About 20 It seemed that no one on the minutes into the half, Oneonta tearn was very happy to have to broke the game open when their make the one and a half hour strong side wing spoiled an up trip on the biggest weekend of and under kick and ran it in 40 the fall season but the team· was meters for. the try. ·The con- even more disappointed upon version was good and Oneonta - arriving only to find that the was ahead, 14-6. field was closer in size to a Union coUld have given up foosball table. The field was here but they came back strong als() not lined and that added the when Sheridan had a long weak general confusion. Never· side run which set 11P a. five thel~ss, Union came out with meter serum on Oneonta's tcy the intensity that has been the line. Oneonta won the serum, mark of this year's team.. but mishandled the ball and A big factor in Saturday's loss U~ion captam Jody Perkins was the absence of veteran alertly fell on it £or the try. serum half Marty Buoniconti, Sheridan made the conversion who was injured earlier in the and Union was .back in the week. Freshman John May was game, 12-14. Union then went given the nod to replace ahead when hooter Sheridan hit Buoniconti, and played a strong a 25-meter penalty kick for game in his first A side match. three more points. O;neonta got on the board first The lead was short li'ved, when their serum half picked up however, and Oneonta soon the ball from an abOrted serum went ahead to stay when a down and ran it ten meters for Baker kick was blocked in the the try. Chris Sheridan blocked Union try zone and the rebels the conversion with the side of immediately fell on the ball for his face (you are not allowed to the tty. The conversion was put your hands above your bead good and Oneonta was ahead 20- while trying to .block an extra 15. Late in the game the two point conversion). It should be teams exchanged penalty kicks noted that Sheridan's face . is and Oneonta; with their home- fine and ther-e was only minimal field advantage, won, 23:..18. damage to the ball. Union inside center Dave Urlion went ahead, 6-4, about Webb summed up the game by ten minutes later when Tom saying, \They didn't really Muzzinigro ·kicked a 22-meter outplay us. In fact; I think we . dr:op cick over Oneonta's were the better team. 0\li' only fullback and speedy John Baker problem was that we just didn't was right there to pick up the get the ball out to the line loose ball and run it in for the enougb. The serum played a try. Sheridan was perfect on the whale of a game, though.\ conversion. ·The lea.d then Union travels to nearby switched hands again about five · · SUNY Albany on Saturday in minutes tiefore the half when hopes that tbey can bring their One{)nta once again stole the record to 2-3 .. with 8:04 remainmg rounded out the seor-ing. . Th.e win pushed Union to 3-2 on the year. More importantly; the game was ~ artistic suc- cess in a B~gnob sort Qf way. The play was a shadow of old times with the Dutchmen defen.se shutting down eveljtbing that was served up to tbem. The offensive was ovel\powering and at times seemed to drive at will. Let's look for more of the same this ·· week as the Dutchmen take on the hapless (1 .. 3) RPI Engineers. SUPPORT UNION SPORT·S

•' ' 1877 October 22, 1987 Union Professor,.· Graduate Analyze Recent Stock Market Phtnge Board of Trustees Me.ets; Hears D'Andrea, ·Mammola. Reports By ))AVE GULLIVER Union Professor of 1 Economics Br-ad Lewis and ' graduate Kenneth Gilpin~ now a business writer for The New York Times, ])oth commented on the recent stock market plunge. The Dow Jones dropped 508 points on ':Black Monday', which represented 22.6 percentof the total value. During the thre~ preceding days, the D()W dropped 261.4~, or 10.8 .percent. On the eve of tile market crasll, · October 29, 1929, the market fell 38.88 points, or 12.82 percent. On Tuesday, the Dow Jones rose 102 points, a record gain for ()De day. Lewis and Gilpin agree on the significance of the drop. Lewis said \the mal'ket may llave been overpriced at the levels it reac;lhed, but Monday was an example of pure- panic. It wa:s not principally- related to the fundamentals.'~ Gilpin concu~red. Despite the massive losses, he said in a 'news analysi~' in the Times, \The econCJmy remains healthy, corpol'ate profits are . By ELIZABETH ·BERLINER The Union College Board of Trustees met October 8 and 9. The Board is made up .()f several committees, including · the · Student Affairs, .Academic Affairs, Finance, Building Grounds and Equipment, Budget and Audit, and College o.: · · Resources. There are also two . ti student representatives: Wendy ~· · Endress, '89, and Mark Web- fti. ster, '88. ·:eM~~~· ~:?~5.ft=: uuts1ae aeu;Jnoratton on the Nott: Missing railings, missing slates, and weather marks. Fate.of Nott Memorial Uncertain; Sen·ior Faculty, VP.G!ve Opinions Picture Feature Inside By TRACEYPRYLU9K library. While l'l()t the most effective use of space, it \gave Assistant to the President, it some atmosphere.\ Jack· L. · Maranville - betieves· · · -profe's'Sot 2\ubrey favors that something absolutely converting the Nott Memorial ShoUld be done to preserve the ii1to a musewn-;:wehive, for Nott Memorial, which some memorabilia. It would be a have dubbed \the symbol of . more open place where people Pictures of Interior .p. 3 could browse and learn a little Contin~ed on page 3 with news on the new College Center that \officially\ opened following a convocation on September 17. All parts of the building are now operation(ll, leC~ving only minor work to be done on the exterior of the building. In addition, he reported on the success of the New Student Orientation, which began all the · way Qack in Augt~st with several off~campus receptions in the homes of alumni. Another .bit was the program, \Classic Campus Comedy\ held at Proctor's on September 12 and the \Ben and, Jerry's\ ice cream social on the 13. Vice President· D'Andrea reported that, beginning on January 1 of next year, a new position will be created entitled the \Dean of Fa<:ulty\. Prof- fesor James Underwood has . been chosen to fill the position. This will call for a restructuring of academic affaixs, since this new position will be responsible for the curriculum, academic budgeting, ltbrarians, registrar, Terms Abroad Program, minority affairs, and undergraduate health programs. D' A.ndrea also reported on the implementation of the new sched!iling system referred to as \Gel Time.\ This system calls for' three class days ()f 65 minute:s eacll or two \class days of 100 minutes each, rather than four class days of 5a minutes each. Despite the initial confusion, he said, it avoids classes meeting on successive days and allows for greater flexjbility in scheduling. Anotller advangage cited is the breal;: it allows the Minerva Hour at 11:00 on Wednesdays. The Board meets four times a year: Homecoming Weekend, · in January, in April, and Graduation Weelcend, and is officially ''responsible .for the · administration CJf the college and its funds,\ a:s well as the policies of progrmns that are offered. strong, ·and illflation, th()ugh · --------------- rising somewhat, remains Union College.\ His personal relatively modEst.\ and professional <>Pinion is that Both expect to see further renovation \has to be done losses, but Lewis said, \not within the context of the orderly another slaugl:lter like we saw progra.ni of the college... we yesterday/' can't let the emotion run away, Campus Without Power Again The twodiff6!r in their opini()11 . nor can we ignore it. .. The time on the cause of the drop. Gilpin to address the Nott is coming attributed the initial phase to right at us.\ the market \bl~Jwing off steam\ Maranville is ambivalent after a long .risE, combined with regarding future uses for the rising intereSt rates maltiQ.g Nott. He stated that certain _other opti()n,:s like money· aspects suggest that the Nott market accounts and Treasury retain its current status as a bills more attractive. Small theatre, but any construction investor panic was alSo a major ·. may preclude malting visible to factor. . visit()rs the grandeur of the Lewis sees a broader cause. building. He added that the Nott He cited 'p~oblems of in· shows a potential for use as a ternational eooperation · be- gallery. tween economies\ and added If not converted into a that \politic11l problems as ; theatre, the Nott should be used much as intrinsic economic passively, according to Dr. problems\ were as much to Maranville. 1 should serve as a blame. He sai<lthat the \actions retreat from the bustle of the -of nation state:s with conflicting College Center. goals will affect each otber.\ .Student Forum member Lewis said, however, that tlle Keith Bemis thinks that the Nott loss is not catastrophic. Right should be used as a musewn 1 now, he noted, the Dow is about • showing college artifacts. He where it was a year ago wben · feels this is especially im• the bull market began. ''It's not portant since Union iS the oldest necessarily way out of line,\ college in New York State and is Lewis said. headed toward its 200th an- In This Issue Tortures of the LSAT .. p .. 7 Bergman Film .. p. 9 Rain at Proctors .. P~ 10 Head of the Charles Review · p. 15 I niversary. Keith alternately envisions the Nott's first floor as meeting rooms and the other two floors as offices .partitioned by glass. He definitely tltinks the interior I of the Nott should be open from the dome to the first floor so that visitors can get the full feeling of what the Nott was originally meant to be. . Professor William C~ Aubrey, Chainnan of the Mechanical Engineering Department, would also like to see the Nott open from the fiNJt floor to the dome, as it was years .ago when the Nott served as the campus Outage Result of Moisture Leakage By R.. REED WHIDDEN This past weeltend the College once again experienced a pol_Ver outage. Saturday mormng around 5:30 a.m. it was necessary .for Physical Plant to cut power to most of the buildings on campus. West College, Potter:, Hicock and Raymond houses were unaf- fected by the outage because they are .supplied power by the street. Power was restored around noon time the same day. The cause of the outage was not a fire in a transformer as most students were t()ld. Apparently, moisture leaked into .the .inner C()re of the wire. This core is composed of many thick copper wires through which electricity flows. Natural · aging that causes cracks in the insulation around these wires allowed for the leakage. The moisture in the core caused a short in the circuit. From this, a minute explosi()n . occured within the cable aad burning began. The short provided ' inadequate power to the lower The source of Saturday's problem. part of the campllS. Power surges caused a fire alarm to solin.d in Davidson. When the attending officer checked the alarm, his attention w:as drawn .to the smell of overheated electrical componeilts. Being unable to determine tbe source, the officer requested the help of Schenectady Fire Department. Their investigation revealed that an air compressor motor {motors for air lines which ,control the beating,system) was · producing the smen. Physical Plant was forced to shut the power off to do work on the problem. For safety's sake that meant the campus would be without .power for six to seven hours. Because of all the recent electrical problems on campus, the question of their relation to one another has: been raised. According to Kenneth Relyea, assistant director of campus operations: \Of the few elec- trical problem::~, none have direct correlation between them. Any d.amages and outages could lta'\le been caused by the constructicm in the past two years.\ He alSo stated that the college is et}uivalent to a small city. With the number of wires and power lines running underground, mmparatively, our outage a11d electrical problem rate is very low.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 22, 1987 Gati and Clinton Support U.S. Actions in Gulf By 'EZRA SHERMAN Political science professors Charles Gati and David Clinton led a discussion last Wed- nesday, October 14, on our in• volvement in the Persian Gulf. This talk comes at a time when the 30-warship American ar- mada now positioned in and around the Gulf is said to be the biggest concentration of naval firepower since the Vietnam War. Iran's unrest and becoming influential in the region. Of the three, Gati sees only the third as a vital interest, one which warrants risking war or American lives to uphold. An Iranian attack would also justify these risks in the form of a retaliatory strike. According to professor Gati, a Soviet l'esponse to a U.S. strike would be along U.N. channels, not military ones. As it is, there have been few American casualties in the Gulf, because the U.S. power there is so strong. In addition, . the U.S. is getting support from West European States, making it. pretty much a NATO effort. The reflagging of Kuwaiti tankers is, however, a solo act on the United States' part. In response to a question, professor Clinton agreed that reflagging does not directly serve U.s. long terni interests. \But without reflagging, we will not have the chance to influence the long term. It is a precaution against things going further wrong.\ ·cuom:o's Spe,ech Gets :B's By FIONA.SHUKRI Union professors Robert · S.harlet and Charles Gati \graded\ the spech Governor . :Mario M. Cuomo gave to the Council on Foreign Relations in . Washington, Tuesday evening, ~ctober 13. They graded Cuomo · in a Times Un1Dn story October . 15. \It is really two speeches,\ states Shal\'let. \The first speech is by a g()vernor making his way very itentatively in the area of inte~national relations and foreign p~licy. The second speech is by a leader of the Democratic l?arty who is very ' sure-footed a11d speaks about leadership with the voice of experience.\ Assessing the speech as a whqle, Sharlet states that it had . \a lot of go()d insights. He's a ' vecy bright student. He has 0 : grasped very quickly the inner 0 , workings of the Soviet system, S: , its paradoxes and .its conflicts. w : But, it lac~.s good thematic ...~ · direction.' • u:: Governor · Cuomo . It struck Professor Gati that , Cuomo was planning on running • for president, or hoping to get : dxafted, when he switched the i focus of his speech from u.s.- . Soviet relations to criticisms of • the Reagan administration's ' foreign policy. Cuomo spoke of ' the need for strong leadership: ' \Common sense and our .: llistory tell us that this : leadership will have to be supplied by our president.\ \He is talking about himself,\ : states Gati, \ ... there is no other · eonclusion you can draw... (in ·• fhis speech) he comes closer . : tban anything else to stating · that he would like to be draf- ted.\ \lfhekeep55tudying it's just a matter of time before he harpens his focus,'' Sharlet. said, but called the speech \just a series of go~(! observations. I see no coherent focus.\ Gati, who c-~lled Cuomo's first major address. on u.s.-soviet relations, ''.striking for its naievete abou.t the Soviet Union,\ said that the recent speech was \a much more realistic and more professional assessment of the depth of the differences bEtween the two countries. It\s clear to me that he has le.arned from the criticisms directed at his previous observations.'' Sharlet gave the governor's speech a \B\and Q-atiawarded it a \B·'·'. False Alarms Plagu·e Campus ByR. RE:ED WHIDDEN In tbe few weeks the College has been in session there has been a rash of unwarranted false fire alarms. Whether accidental or intentional, the ,false alarms have proved to be a nuisance. If an alarm is in· tentionally activated, certain disciplinary measW'e.S will be taken. The responsible party will be fined 100 dollars, campus living pr1vilege.s will be ter~ minated, and there is a possibility of suspension from the college, Resident Advisors will be holding floor meetings to discuss the problem and what to do about it. Thenumber of false alarms is outrageou$ in relation to the time in which they have oc- cured, From September 15 t_Q October 11 there have been 40 false alarms, Fox .has had 15 false alarms, Davidson has had 14, West has had 12, Richmond has had 5, North has had 2, and both Smith and Webster have had one each. The majority . of the alarms have been caused by students. Of the 40, 16 had this as their cause. Popcorn poppers and cooking wer:e valid excuses for tllese false alarms. Twelve were intentionally pulled, and the causes of seven alarms are still unknown. The few left were caused by val.\ious reasons. · Both professors set the stage for a question and answer period with a short talk on the current situation in the Gulf. Professor Gati prefaced his remarks with a rule he said should be remembered where o~r relations with countries . along the Persian Gulf are concerned and also with United States foreign policy in general. He said, \In international relationships you have to make choices between equally un- desirable options.\ For example, even in seemingly clear-cut situations, such as whether we should have sup- ported Great Britain at the outset of her war with Nazi Germany, there wasn't unilateral agreement,; some said that England's colonial policies should preclude any alliance with them. As for the Iran-Iraq wars, there is \good reason not to admire both of them,\ assuming a particular foreign policy stance is in· finitely more difficult. BefOre you choose along distance service, take a close look Professor Gati listed three possible U,S. interests in the Persian Gulf region. First is the United States' interest in freedom of navigation. Secondly, the U.S. has an in- terest in preventing any of the Middle East states from becoming a dominant power. And third, the U.S. has an 41· terest in preventing the Soviet Union from taking advantage of Nelson•s Book Store 173 Jag Street~ Schenectady Open: · Monday thru Saturday · 11 am·- 5:30 pm Thursday evenings 'til9 pm DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vranken Ave 374 .. 5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING You may be thinking about choosing one of the newer carriers over AT&T in order to save money. Think again. _ Since january 1987, AT&T's rates have dropped more than 15% for direct -dialed out -of- state calls. So they're lower than you probably realize. For infor- . m(ltion on specific rates, you can call us at 1 800 222-0300. And AT&T offers dear long distance connections, operator assistance, 24-hour customer service, and immediate credit for wrong numbers. Plus, you can use AT&T to call from anywhere to anywhere, all· over the United States and to over 250 countries. You might be surprised at how good a value AT&T really is. So before you choose a lorig d1stance company, pick up the phone. ATa.T The right choi.ce.

CONCORDlENSlS, October 22, 1987 Page·3 Nott Badly Deteriorated, In Need of Repair D~me~ge in the dome of the Nott Steps,leading up to Nott Memorial's entrance. Beauty of 'Structure, Architechture Should Remain a. P.riority. Continued from page 1 prioritywhenhecametoUnion; ·the dome from the first floor about Union's history, \whel\e a while before Professor might be replaced with some it's been and where it's going.\ Martin's arrival in 1953. ., · g()()d, clear plastic so that Such a structure would malte Professor Martin was \quite visitors could see through to the people more aware -of what is delighted\ when the Nott was d()me. Professor Martin en- available on the history of the converted to a theatre-in~the- · visions the basement and the college. Professor Aub~:ey .· round. He recalls that certain third level serving as a storage added that \old things are still ' dignitaries did not like the for those archives which cannot important. People don't alwCJys original change, feeling that it be converted to microfilm or invent new things., detracted from the looks of the microfiche, providing more Professor William B. Martin, · college. He thinks the Nott is · r«Jom in the library. Jr., of the chemistr-y depar.i· • fairly effective as a theatre, but · A.ll four agreed that the Nott ment, remembers when the ·. cautions that it should not be · mum be renovated, and that it Nottwas \the library'' of Union • enlarged without due care sb()tild be put to some use, but College~. Dr. Helmer Webb ·was , during renovation. The wrought ·. not necessarily the most the librarian at the time. ir.on latticework was the first or practical use ol the space Profe:ssor Martin remembers •· secondtobeusedin this country · because the beauty and him as being unhappy becaliSe • · and should not be disturbed. originality of the structure there was so much delay in . ~ Part of the second level might . sbo;uld .remain a priority. The building the Schaffer Library, . be used for balcony seats, and interior use should not detract which. he had been told Wal! top • the boards covering the view of froJn. the interior appearance. 1\KETHE ULTII\TE FIEIJ CDUltSE loin us and study: • Wildlife Management in Kenya, •· Marine Biology in the Virgin Islands, .. Deforestation in Costa ~ca, •· Dolphins in Hawaii .. Eioge()graphy in Australia .. and 18 more environmental issues worldwide, . ' Flnanchd aid and academic credit available For more. information on January;. Summer & Semester environml!fratal field t~search courses, cotne to: CAFi.EE·R DEVElOPMENT CENTER 1.2:30 pm, Thursday, ·October. 22 or wtiie.~ ,sF'S, Box A. 376 Hale St .. , Beverly, ,MA- 01915, (617) 927-7777 THE SOIOOL FOR FriLD 811111 THE WNORLD iS YOUR CLASSROOM Plaster in the walls .is' crumbling away. ,. All pb()tos by Elliot P. Olschwang Are you conslderlnlfi'Ofesslonal school?- HARVARD UNIVERSITY JOHN F. KENNEDY SCHOOL OF GOVERNMENT Is Lookir~g for Future l.edders in-Public Affairs. Come Learn About Hai\Jfard's Two-Year Master's Progrllm in Public.Pdicy, Leadingto either the Master ;,., JJr.tbJic Policy or City and Regi(mfllPianning Degree. JPINT DEGltEB OPTIONS .A'ND <ROSS-REGIS'IRATION OPPORTUNITJ.BS \V1I\l[ 0111ER SOIOOLS . · lYIEBT M.THA , KENNEDY SCHOOLREPRESBNTATIVE DATEI Mom. t Oc:t 26 ltOI) ·2130 LOCA110Nt FLEASE CON'TACT YOUR CAREER PLACEMDIT ·()WJCE FOR TIWJ INFORMATION All Students, All Maio\r-~ All Years Welc~Jm~l

- Page 4 CONCQRDIENSIS, October 12, 1987 ·FEATURES Talk of The Town Concordy recently asked: What is yollr favorite way to blow off studying during 11rid· terms? Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzing.er \Eating!\ \Midnight BrandYWine Euns\ Marni Ezra & Sue Hirsh '91 Arthur Parker '89 .' '2 hour power naps-- fr~endly's study breaks every 15 \What are mid-terms?\' mmutes - reread my mail - Bill Conkli:n '89 chopper bulk food runs.'' Jamies Lipsher '9Q Robert Pinsky at Union By JEFF BERNSTEIN Robert Pinsky Robert Pinsky is the well respected author of Sadness and Happiness, An Explanation of America, The History of My Heart and The Situation of Poetry. He is an EngliSh pro~essor at The University of California at Berkley, and of even greater interest, he was a resident of Schenectady, New York for the past two weeks. Almost anyone currently enrolled and attending an English class had at least one class with him during this period. As Lamont Visiting Professor, Mr. Pinsky was also entreated, upon threat of un- speakable pains, to read from his works on the evening of Tuesday the 13th; for the benefit of the teachers and students who have learned from him in the previous weeks. For those who attended this FREE, yes, FREE reading, the learning continued. Robert Pinsky told the audience a little about what he hoped to achieve in his .poetry, he wanted his 'voice' to be honest and well worked; he wanted it to speak seriously and directly. In his reading he achieved this and he did so without avoidance of bmt without emphasis on poeticizing. Robert Pinsky had the 'voice' of an experienced storyteller and the 'hand' of a painter. Pinsky read from work he hopes to include in an upcoming book, which is to be finished sometime in the next year or so. We heard short pieces, such as \The Want Bone'; an abstract and imagistic treatment of the thoughts brought to mind upon finding a shark's jaw l>one by the seashore; were . treated to \Sonnet\, a short poem, which as Pinsky suggested, in~lt1ded some of the intentions ()f a classical sonnet but lac:ked its pomp. This piece excluded the showiness of a sonnet 'Which says 'see how fine my pilrases are and how precise are my rhymes', \Sonnet\ was rneant merely to extol a lady w.ithollt bringing in the more selfish ambition of impressing ber with the words.· Robert Pinsky turned t() The Apocrypha for the· insJJiration which gave us \Frc.ID the Childhood of Jesus\ a :f!lnciful but Serious look at lhow tbe young son of God migllt have acted. Also from biblical sources, he took the story ·of Daniel in the lion's <len and painted it, into poetry. At the close of an hour we had heard \The Cold\ \An Old Man in a Cafe\ \The l!earts\. ''The Song of the Adobe Mad :lleads\ and a special request, ''The Figured Wheel\ first poem from the book, \Histol\Y of My Heart;,. RecoWlting the evening brings swirls of image& back to. mind as if one was remem- bering the crat:nnling of an entire Metropolitan Mwe1.llll of Art exhibit into one afte:rnoon; in fact the Humanities Department lounge wa~ .almost as crowded as The Met for this reading. But take no mi.nd, all weary toiling students,. literate or otherwise, do yourseJf a good turn, take an hour one .of these weeks and see one of tme artists procured for your benefit by your friendly neigh borbood English Department a1.t great risk and expense I migllt add, you can't beat it... its free! r Philosophy Forum on . . . The Tactics Of Tryanny By JIM MANLEY This past Sunday ;r witnesse<i: an event that should never be allowed to happen again. Yes, football fans; it was the Buffalo, New York Giants game. The reason, however, that I feel this way is not due to the horrendoas play on the field. The true cause lies in a more fundamental issue called decency, and in a further realization of how badly people in general :;ettle theiF disputes. The footbal strike came about over issues like free agency and .pension plans, but that does not matter now. What the strik.e became was an example of blackmail, treachery and deceit. The perpetrators of these crimes were the various - owners, who are clearly representative of a new kind of vindictive conservatism that is increasingly callous and deplorable. What the owners succeeded in doing the past three weeks proved them to be capable of · the kind of self-interested, manhandling that has squashed movements from 'Moscow to South Africa. Money is a very powerful to()! in America , especially wllen it is in the hands of those who use it as a means tt:J> own and control. This is precisely what each owner decided to do with their power, to frustrate a legitimate strike · by using a tactic that was phrased as a 'get tough strategy.' The men in their glass boxes went for the mos.t vulnerable spot of any man: his dignity. Games were played, but not by tl1e peopl~ who have worked an their lives to get tllere. Instead fans watched imitation fo()tbaU with fill in p!ay~rs. The results ()f the game- counted, and the entir~ spec- tacle made a farce crl the game, and the players who made it great. \The game :must go on.'' Thhs Want to go to Boston? Go with the Union Unlv. Traveling· CI 1 Ub oi1 Nov. 7 4 Tlcke1s $16.00 See Mrs. Marra to reserve a seat or call x61l8 for more information. The Sisters· of Delta Gam.ma are proud to announce the following winners in our 1st Annual \Best of the Best\ at Union contest. Class of 1988 Winners: 1) Best Dressed: Will Piersol & Maura Carta . 2) Biggest Flirt: Devin Wenig & Rochelle Zamore 3) Most Athletic: Dave Tewkesbury & C()lleen Dundon 4) Class Clown: Jim Manly & Jan Goldstein 5} Party Animal: Mark Webster & Paula Nadeau Class of 1989 'winners: 1) Best Dressed: Chad Levin & Kristen Arnold 2) Biggest Flirt: Steve Hayes & Sheri Weinstock 3} Most Athletic: Sco1t Gibbs & Julie Gallo 4) Class Clown: Chris Sheridan & Deb Byer 51 Party Animal: Will Leahy & Jane Hackett Class ·of 1990 Winners: 1) Best Dressed: Matteo Co veri Abbondio & Karen Blesser . 2) Biggest Flirt: Ben Auslander & Sarah Oren 3) Most Athletic: Chip Silver & Wendy Vincent 4) Class Clown: Dave Rosenberg & Mandy Bernhart 5) Party Animal: Mike Tremante & Claire Ginsberg-Lytle All winners ·should get in touch . with Amy Oltchick, Foundation Chairman at x4354 or Box. 1898 to re·ceive their prizes! A If prizes were donated by Stewarts Ice Cream Co., Inc. All proceeds to go Sigllt Conservation & A.id to the Blincl (Due to lack of Interest there we:re ne)t any w1nners from tile Class of 1991) is the principle that the owners were setting down. They were letting the· players know that they were replaceable, like parts in an engine. The owners have their stadiums and their money, and they will hire someone to entertain them on their terms. To owll something is to necessarily have control over i:t, anw control meam that the only person one mllSt really please is himself. This is a position of tyranny. The .players are all too aware_ of this tealationship, and the · helplessness it implies. They are being used as ends to thE' means of qu:ality en- tertainment. In a competitive self interested world this means that one must take a .stand, or fall down for lack ofone. Wat- ching the players come back from the strike with their tails between their legs, beaten and · hurililiated, went fa:r beyond the tiny world of football. The true ramifications are seen in a story of broken spirit and destructed solidarity. Men with a cause must never forget how far unity and .decency has - brought them against an elite who has offered little in the way ofhumanitariim cQmpassion. The human spirit is a remarkable thing, and can be inspiring to observe when used in times of crisis. Bnt to watch it break i.s like ha:ving the very ground beneath us shatter. I realize that this may seem like an extreme . reaction to something as ultirnatelytrivial as football, Yet, at the risk of sounding trite, it is the point of it all. When the few use their power to humiliate and conquer th,e many a precedent is set that is very hard to stop. Many critics counter that the owners simply acted in their best in- terest, and coiilmitted no crime. This igno-res ohe simple premise that Americans should hold dear: the right to decency. · Exploitation of men can come in many forms; these past weeks it came in the shape .of a 6-3 football game. With their spirit broken, and image crushed the players have no union, they barely have a status. Tbe players must perform,· and they must do it. because they lost. Their options were disgrace or surrender; terms of war. The players were the victims of pirates who should see little reason to discontinue their tyranny, it worked so well. • .l· ;.il 'l ' ' .I j 'i ' \ ' ,., .J .I ,. ,! ~f . \ i,j •• ' ,. I J I :1 '; ;I ., ·; /. I 1, .~ i ;i I.; ~ ·~ ·~~ J '· ., ' .l '• il ,. ,: ~~ ' i; '·' ',

'·' :l \ t I il CONCORDIENSIS;. October 22, 198·7 Page 5 They Call Him Mr. Dutch.man By FRANZ LITZ. They callhim Mr. Dutchman~ a name which attempts t() sum up his role in Unior1 athletics. The crowd cheers behi.ndbim as he sets off the canncn at home football games. In the locker room. the athletes leugh al:iout his endless pranks. IUs name is Bob Ridings, and before his retirement he served for 37 years as athletic equipment manager here at Union. Although seventy-year-old Bob says he's \too yotlllg to retire,\ he did j.ust that last June. Yet retirement has not stopped him from teasing the athletes, from being with students, or from showing off his unique sense of humor. This September, Bobbegan W()rking part-time at the new equipment cage in the Alumni Gym. He laughs about his new surroundings, saying, \I :need a road. map to find anytbing in this place. I used to be able to walk this place in the dark, but not anymore.\ Bob claims. he assumed the part-time p()sition in order \to keep busy and be around students.'' · The students, too, are glad Bob has chosen to come back. One senior basketball player , remarked, \He likes having a good time, that's why he's still aroWld.\ Good times seem to have filled the 37 year career of Bob Ridil!gs. As . \the guy in charge\ of all field hocltey, football, tr-ack, wrestling, basketball, !).ockey, baseball, and lacrosse uniforms and equipment, B<>b came into close contact with virtually every athlete to play at Union in the last four decades. The senior basketball players will recall one of their team- mlite's attempt to put on a pair of shortsbef()re a game,. only to find the legs were sewn shut by Ridings. This story is just one of many in the history of Bob Ridings. Over the years, Ridings has succeeded in causing trouble for the athlete and non-athlete alike. Freshtnen are quick to find out Bob's intense sense ·Of humor. An upperclassman . related a case of a ripped towel that Ridings passed off as a small {saying hewas out of larges) to an unknowing freslunan. And the stories go on and on. Though he i.s not quick to admit it, Ridings has been the subject of much appr~ciation for his contributions tp the athletes of the school. In 1980, the student body declared \Bob Ridings Day.\ Included in the honors was a . plaque which read: \May this plaque, in some small way, express the heartfelt thanks of thousands of students and alumni. The 25 years of service and support you have given to Uni()n College In Th-ie Woods with Uncle Pete By CATHY MARKES 8 a.m. in front of Bailey-that's where we were all supposed to meet last Saturday. As .students in Professor Tobiessen's \Nor- theast Forests\ class, we were to embark on a weekend ad- venture. Our destination was Cascade Mountain in the Adirondacks, and our goal was to reachthetqp. Now that might sound like a simple feat, especially if you take into account that it's only a 2 1 /z .mile hike up a well~worn trait But things are not always as straightforward as they initially seem ... To begin with, our meeting time became less than a(!curate due to the do\mcampus loss of electricity shortly after 6 a.m. Virtually no one awoke on their own (nothingnewona Saturday morning), yet somehow friends dragged their friends oat of bed and we left Schenectady only an hour late. With the exception of one unfortunate soul whom we lost to the L.')AT's., everyone else was able to head to the mountains. Sleep was definitely the main idea on the drive up the Nor- thway. As I drove behind the trusted Union College. van, I could see people nodding off, one by one. (We had just discussed the amount of sleep each of us had had the night before, and I think the average was five hours.) I was no ex· ception-my eyelids kept fluttering as I drove and eventually I forced the people . riding with me to wake up and talk tome. The weather, of course, was beautiful. The leaves were mostly golden, orange and brown on the trees along the highway. whJ.ch made the drive quite scenic. We stopped for a quitk coffee and bagel break once we entered the Adirondack Park, and by that time we were all anxious to get· to the mountain and start climbing. After a short drive, we were , finally there. Everyone pulled on their hiking boots and added a few layers of clothing to what they wese already wearing. We had been told that the Wind was quit~ brisk at ,the top, so we COLLEGE BOWL RETURNS TO T.V. AND TO UNION COLLEGE! Team Competitiolls: Mt;mday, October 26 Wednesday, October 28 Thursday, October 29 Wednesday, No-vember 4 7:00 pm - 10:00 pm 7:00 pm - 10:00 pm 7:00 pm - 10:00 pm 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm CC Auditorium ss 016 CC Auditorium ss 016 The winning team will represent Union at the Regional competition in February. Come and cheer the teams on!!! Team Captains: Paula Nadeau wanted to be prepared. Some people had small backpacks that they carried, while I chose to simply zip my Fluffernutter sandwich into one jacket pocket, and to zip a nice big . apple in the other. Note that I had borrowed both the boots and the jacket for this occasion, so I felt especially prepared. So off we went, up the beaten path so to speak. There were plenty of rocks to climb and mud to slosh through along the way which made everything rather interesting. We stopped · several times on the way up, in order to take samples at dif- ferent points in the forest. It soon became evident how the vegetation changed with in- creasing altitude, which was the purpose of our climb. Not only did the prev~lence of certain species of trees change, but the rate of tree growth reduced considerably. By the time we reached the last stages of our climb, the trees were curiously stunted and the path was on a barren rock surface. We had made it! So there we were, on top of Cascade Mountain with a spectacular \Bobby\ athletics have meant so much to so many, and necessitates this day of recognition. your en- thusiasm, spirit, and devotion are deeply appreciated by all athletes, students, and College personnel. Always wishing you the best, please accept our gratitude and blessings.\ At age seventy, Bob considers FEATURES himself in good health. It is likely that as long as Bob has the capacity to set ()ff the cannon, he will be seen out there rooting on the team. Retirement has removed him from immediate contact with all of the athletes, but it will take much more to get the Dutchman out of Bob Ridings. Bio53 view of the Adirondacks all around us. Pvofessor Tobiessen pointed out the Olympic ski jumps at Lake Placid, as well as the locations of other small towns and lakes. We proceeded to settle down for lunch there, in the gusts of wind which threatened to take any loose belongings catapulting off the side of the mountain. And of course, we took pictures. We climbed back down then, and late afternoon soon turned into early evening. We headed into Lake Placid to a few local 'haunts, and managed to relax: and grab a great meal at Ruth's Diner. Everyone shared stories over dinner while listening to the jukebox:, whi~h interestingly enough, played every song we' selected twice. Upon leaving Ruth's, most of us were positive that we had brought in over 50 percent of their day's business, since a table for fourteen is a bit large f()r a diner: But does the story end there? Well, not quite, since we had a two hour ride ahead of us to get to Pr()fessor Tobiessen's camp on Sacandaga Lake. But from here on i.n it's a bit sketchy : .. something about pink lemonade, views out the van windows and praying I didn't run out of gas in Spectulator, NY. And it is true: Bio 53 is an amazing course due to the lab field trips and the interaction between professors and students. Peter Orenbel'g Michael Greenberg Joanne McAndrews Andre Haddad R. Al.A:min Khan Peter Leventhal Robert Charlap 10 'Days 'llnti{ 1-{a[{oween!

·I Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, Oc.tober 22, 19$1 . •' FEATURES The· Supreme Being Hairdresser By R. R.~ED WHIDDEN Am I religious? No. When people ask me this I stare at them in astonishment-\How can there be a God when I was born with hair like this\??? As they eye my hair they too, begin to doubt the existence of God. However, as ox yet, my questions of His existence have not encouraged anyone away from his path. Personally, I will believe in God when someone invents a way to give my hair body. Oh, yes there are cuts and per- manents, llotrollers and curling irons that will give some hair that sweet little bounce that I dream of at night, b11t it just doesn't work. I've cOille clos&--'believe me. I've had that super curl-for a few minutes, · Hours have been spent on my hair just to have it go to waste as soon as r move my head, run my fingers through my hair, or walk out the door. My roo~- mate has tried everything-hairspray, gel, mousse (our next step is Crazy Glue). She can attest to the fact that I was not blessed with hair that can d() things like Tina Turner's can. There are probably fifteen hair salms and dressers on the East Coast that will also agree that a «!WSe has been placed upon me. However, .Qne recent experience has led t~ to believe that God and I are getting closer to acknowledging one another. I'm alwws looking for a bargain and so is my dear friend Missa (who, I believe, has the b()dy in her hair that was intended for me). Seeing the opportunity f()r one on haircuts, Missa and I made appointments at Shenanigans. That two for one delll., which as a matter of fact is Ii()t a deal at all. If y()u expect a blow dry, don't think it is included in the price-it~ s an extra three bucks-so it turns out to be a mere dollar off tlte regular price. They end up s()ooping the scrods naive bargain shoppers like us just because they have good advertising tactics. But still, it was a dollar off a nine doUar haircut, so how could I p~ss up an opportunity for an e1ght dollar haircut? So Missa and I got up early one morning and went Of course the first thing I said to the h;iil·dresser, Lisa, was, \Can you give me a cut that will give my hair some body\? \S ure, no problem,\ she replied. Oh, those familiar words qsure, no .problem.\ Sure, no problem until she sta~s to cut my hair and realizes that there is no God. So, there I am sitting in those fun chairs that I still, as a 19 year old . adu,It, insist on spinning arol;lild m. ~yway, an amazing feellng of gUilt swept over me as \My roommate bas tried everything . bairspray, gel, mousse, (our next step is grazy glue). She can attest to the fact that I was not blessed with hair that can do things like Tina Turner's can.\ . I had given this talented young woman this impossible task without first filling her in on the real story Qf my hair. I wanted more bangs, so I let her go at it Only there is a problem there, too. I have an incredible cowlick in the middle of my forehead, so when one tries to cut my bangs straight across they turn out uneven. One part of my bangs flips in a different direction that the rest of them, and it frustrates the hell out of me and my hair- dressers. Even though I had warned her about this problem, she didn't seem to take it into consideration. She just kept cutting and cutting. She just couldn't understand what was going on. \STOP\! I screamed. \stop cutting my bangs! ! ! HEL?\! I pleaded witli her to The Idol is now accepting poetry, artwork, and short stories. We will be accepting submissions all of Fall Term. Send original pieces to: Joy Cybul, Box 542 Get the facts .about AIDS. Send for your free copy of ''100 Questions and Answers About AIDS·'' Write: N.Y.S Health Dept. Box 2,000 '~ Albany, NY 12220 , ........... , ... - ..... ~ ................. ~ ... co·upon ..... , ....................... ~ ................... _~ ~ Night Shift Wings : , 10 ~a,v Street : : . Repeat of Sellout : : FREE CHICKEN WINGS! : ' . \ : Buy 2 Dozen And ~ : Get 1 Dozen Free! : ~ We Delivel' 381-8816 ~ : Offer Expires 11-1-87 : \ ' ' '-- .. -·\ .. , ........ 'b ·, ............ ~coupon ...... , .... ,..,.. ........... ~ta.,., .... , ...... ' put the scissors down. They were very short and very uneven because, she didn't .comp.ensate ·· for the cowlick, Short spikey bangs-tllat'S just not my style. This time I felt fairly safe. I informed Lisa of the kink. I\Oh yeah. I know, I see it.\ was her reSj)Clnse. This gave me great confidence. 'Lisa cut away, not too mu<!h and not too little. Then she ~ot to my bangs. She set apart a large amount of hair.c:_for me anyway--to cut int() bangs. I figured, \What the hell-rll live on the edge--cu.t as much as you like.\ I was quite impressed with the results. She was ready to blow dry the limp, lifeless spaghetti growing .from my ' scalp. While she very adroitly worked with the hairdryer and a curling brush, I thought, \Hey maybe this time., magic w;ill happen.\ My bang$, Inoticed, resembled Jane Pauley's. I was pleased. I wonder if this could get me a job at NBC. Jane and I will have to chat about our hairdressers-perha:ps over a cup of General Foods In- ternational Coffee, Then a smile grew on my face. When I thought Lisa was finished she put my hair up in one of those clips h.airdresser.s use, a familiar lock of hair on the left side of my face slipped out of the clip--:the same lock that refuses to be pwled back out of my face any time I want it back. My smile widened when I _saw Usa grab the e11rling iron. She curled the ends of my hair to give it that little extra umph I long for. Then I knew I would still wait for my miracle to arrive when Lisa said, \You know, you can always try a body wave to mak4l your hair fuller. And when yon are drying your hair, dry it upside down-that will give it extra body, too.\ I always feel so badly when I gel to a hair- dresser. I think they somehow feel compelled to make my hair do something. So, they will sit there and play with it until it does. They always try and please this customer. I guess they feel they have somehow failed me if I don't come out with what I asked for. I am very pleased with my new cut, and Lisa did a fine job. 1'11 probably go back to her, if she is willing to go through that h. .ell again. Have you had three meals. today? Can you share with someone who has not? . i . T~ke advantage of the ·chance. . .~~ S.•gn ups Nov. 11 & 12 ·o·f . ~l Fasting Date Nov. 19 A .. X (lm .. • .·.~ mencat. STAFF ASSOCIATION - INVITES YOU TO ATTEND OUR HOLIDAY SPECIAL CHRISTMAS GIFT SALE e • MANY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROM .. AVOID FIGHTING THE CROWDS AT THE STORES • SHOP WITH US • FOR ALL .AGES 11:30 AM • 2:30 PM OCTOBER 22. 23 & 26 COLLEGE C·ENTE.R 1ST FLOOR YOUR SUPPORT IS APPRECIATED Rathskellar Alchohol Awareness Week Pro.motion Thursday October 22nd 3 to 4:30 pm Pick Up Your Free Pamphlet \Cooking with Beer Wine & Sprits\ Try Our Sample Recipes Featuring Belgia·n Beer Stew :1 (\ 'i ~ ~: I '· .I

l ,1 ,• ' '~ ' i CONCORDIENSlS, October 22, 1987 . Page 7 FEATURES: Taking The LSAT's Style In ByMARJORIEHOFFER This is only a personal ac- count cf a truly grueling ven- ture that ·began many months ago, .and ended, (\well so to speak) on October 17, at 2:30 pm. OnMonday, October 12, my friend' NEG and I decided to search: for Albany Law School to see·91here we would be taking the I.SAT. Because I was a devoute follower of the Stanley method; we found our test site ahead ~ftime . .We took a :rather securitour route that brought us through Albany's .farmlands. NEG was getting a bit carsick as I bieaked before each turn and l!ill. Decidedly lost, we asked a photographer for our directio11s, and he gave them to us witllout taking our picture. I was aliit disappointed. Over an hour-after having left Union,. we found the law school, and lockedfor the law library. I suppose it was lucky we got lost because just as we walked into the lil>rary a Union alum walked out! He was not only so kind as to give us normal directions back to school but he let us follow him. He also gave us very good suggestions about finding a hotel room for the night before. NEG and her roomate J.B thought it would behoo-ve us to spend the night at a hotel Friday night jijSt in case Unio11 had fire drills, or noisy people -who would wake us from our slumber- .. I agreed because Stanely said a goodnight's sleep the n:ight before the test was VERY important.So, NEG and I we11t hotel hopping next. Our first choice of hotels was bo·oked, so we made reser· vations at the Sheraton Air Port Inn . .All week long, I treated myse1f to carbohydrates and decicl4:id not to do too much schoc.l work, least I burn out my brain prior to the exam. Friday, at 5: 15 NEG, JB, and Bessie picked me up outside my door and 'WE began the descent to hell. First we stopped off at Price Chop1Jer and bought biri food to.. keep our energy up during the test. .Stanley had told me'bring p. 9M I decided on raisins and M&M trail mix. I also bought diet C()ke, because . a day withotrt diet coke is a bmnmer. Theil, we went out for a nice dinner. The waiter was a bit mean because he removed our appeti2er be~ore we had completed it. But that was alrig;ltt, we choV\\ed any\1Vay. Th.~n. we checked into the luxul'i()U$ hotel. I was, not happy abotit being on the first floor, but the worst was the 'fact that we were in the bowels of the hotel. By the tiine we. had reacl!ed our rooms my arm and shouJ!Ier ached from carrying a days worth of clothes. The rooms were poorly lit,' and we did not have cable, Bnt ·they were clean. We got into our nighlc:lothes, except fOr JB who forg«>t her's. She instead ate some Friehoffer's coffeecake. The worst part of the ordeal in the hotel was the fact that we neglected to bring bathing suits and could not take a midnight dip in the indoor pool. At nine o' clock I throated out JB and NEG and got into bed for the worst night's sleep of my entire life. Despite reading Glamour and Mademoiselle I just could not get more thantwo hours of sleep. It's a horrible feeling knowing that you will not be awake for one of the most important exams in your life. I tried so hard, I counted for- wards and backwards. I read maps of the ,capital district. I watched so much tv that I knew Nancy Reagan's whole ordeal of her mastectomy by heart, and when I finally dozed off it was· with visions of the little girl being pulled out of the well. I woke up beiore a one-ringer wake up call, and took my shower. Then I snagged all the stupid hotel stuff like the shower caps, soaps, and sewing kit. I felt that since I did not get a good night's sleep I was en- titled to everything else the Sheraton had to offer. We checked out, and were psyched for our breakfast in the hotel loi.mge. But, the manager in- formed us his staff was late, .so we ate at Denny's. It was the , best breakfast I ever had. We were quite happy pulling out of the parking lot and looking down the road to see a school bus · parked outside our first chOice hotel. We were off to the LSAT at 7:40am. I took a swig of some medicine and we pulled into a very crowded parking lot. My registration ticket said to arrive at the test center between 8:00 and 8:30. But so many people were horrible th~:oats and had arrived before 1':00! Poor JB had the wrong last name and could not take the test in the same room as NEG and I. But, she at least had a Kenya bag to stash her chopper stuff, while NEG and I embarressedly entered the center with price chopper bags filled with bulk food, granola bars, diet coke and number 2 pencils. We had found strategic. seats and were so happy. Then i went to search for the bathroom. It was a key move. Unfortunately, when I restured, our proctor, who introduced herself, later made us move frcm our original seats· and had. Marcel, her assistant, personally seat us. I then had to remove and replace my raisins and diet coke. Our proctor said that she was go~g to be nice and let us eat dunng the test if we opened all .of our wrappers before the exam. NEG at this point bad gotten comfortable. She had taken off her shoes and her sweatshirt when the procter asked those students wLthout their registration tickets to come forward. Naturally those two students happened to attend Union. But NEG did not hear Write for f'eatures! Cal(Catfi.y at 4371, Marjorie at 6961 or Wendy at 381-9089· the proctor, and was quite jarred to hear ll.er name \Miss GOULD!\ yelleci: up to the last row of seats at the Albany Law School auditorhun. We filled out forms and were fingerprinted. The test began, and I was i11 a state of exhaustion. NEG :realized early enough that sbe was taking her test with a 1 peneil. Marcel, the proctor, kept looking over my shoulder ever~ . moment it seemed, exept 'l'lh~n I wanted to excuse myself. \We had a break, and I knew just where the bathrooms we<e, so I had the chance to use them. Returning back to the test I knew that I had two l'eading com- prehensions to look forward to; my worst sections. So, I ate a granola bar. When the test was finally over, I was more than ready fer. bed. Bu:t then it hit me that I bolllbed the stupid test. When I gl>1 back to my room, I realize<! 1 was too tired to go out Saturday night. In- stead I made a two hour call to my parents, wh() assured me that McDonald£ is always looking for goodmanagers. So now I am ~oing to take the LSAT again in December. The bad news is, I still have to deal with the pressu.re of another test, the search for the bathrooms, ~And the nerdy proctors. The g~od news is, I get another free pen. And besides, I definately kno-w how to do the LSAT in style. Career Track· '88 Careel.\ Conferences of America, Inc. has scheduled CareerT\Iak '88, its second annual College Recruitment Conference, for February 17 and 18 atNew York City's Penta Hotel. The first conference of its kind held last February, CareerTrak '87 brought together .college recruitment professionals from major U.S. firms and federal government agencies with college seniors from over lOll colleges and universities. Such firms as Aetna Life and Casualty, Raytheon, Bank of New York, Amerada Hess and New York TelephOne attended CareerTrak '87 and added to the success of the conference. The eoncept of bringing college recruiters and job seeking seniors together in an atmosphere conducive to successful interviewing and hiring is the brainchild of Mark Grove a:11d Joe Price, former human resource executives with Aetna Life and Casualty. \CareerTrak '87 was an unqualified success,\ said Mark Grove, President of Career Conferences of America, Inc. \It provided students with an opportunity to meet and interview with a large number of prestigious emM ployers in one location. The unique format of CareerTrak '87 allowed the students to inm crease their job opportunities and make important personal contacts with key hiring representatives.'' \Our CareerTrak conference fills a definite need,\ said Price, Executive Vice President of Career Con- ferences of America, Inc. \We select seniors in 40- n1ajor disciplines, from over 200 schools in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic U.S., and invite them to New York City. From all indications, ''CareerTrak '88 will by far top the success of last year's conference. College seniors willlle able to meet with firms like Salomon Brothers, Xerox Corporation, The Prudential, Arco Chemical, U.S. Spring, and many more.\ · Interested seniors should send current resumes before December 15 directly to: Career Conferences of America, Inc., P.O. Box 1852, New Haven, CT 06508. llllllllllllllllllllllUIIIIliii.JIIIIIIIllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll Sign up for the . . . Student Phonathon Dates: Time: Place: Sunday, November 8 Monday, November 9 5:30 Dinner 6:~9- C~ll_h;tg Hall House D:ining Room Call alumni for gifts to Union-your help is needed $300 awarded in prizes Pick up forms at info booth.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 22, 1987 Ololtfllfhirnsis Foundd ar (huon CQ/I~c ll/7:' Represented? The B()ard of Trustees met earlier this month and didn't hear a word ·Of student concern. Well, maybe they did, and perhaps .there weren't many student worries, but if you did have a concern, you weren't ~iven a chance to voice it. The Student Forum allowed the Trustees' meeting to pass without attemting to contact the students for their opinion. The Forum does have open office hours but did not announce that their fall meeting with the people who make the big decisions was at hand. The office hours themselves have received little pu])licity since the beginning of the year. If they had informed ·us, we could have made a few suggesti<ms: work on admissions policy and residence life resources to end overcrowding. Study the idea of a new dorm or apartment complex, possibly in the northwest comer of campus. Appropriate money or start a fund to assist fraternities with liability insurance. Examine the General Education proposals and offer tlleir opinion for consideration. Discuss the several yet- unresolv-ed problems with the yet-named College Center. Tell the Trustees about the unpleasant incidents that administration seems to have already forgotten: date rape and assault, in which alcohol played a. role both times. Even tell them that the Idol should be moved back to its old home behind the library, or that we need more periodicals, or anything. That's our right--to have our opinion heard. So far this year the Forum :lias not called an open meeting, but when they do, use it. Stop in on third floor College Center in the evening for office hours. Learn who your class reps are and contact them. If yo11 ,really want to be heard, don't despair, and write a letter to the e<litor. Every trustee receives Concordiensis each week; they see, the letters, and they've seen all the stories. Bre,akdown When the elevator rose a foot and then ground to a halt it became obvious that it wasn't going to be a great day. Then, once it reversed direction and decended to its intended destination, the unhealthy creaking noises it made were far from comforting. There !lave been a lot of complaints about technical failures in the \College Center.\ The skylights leak, the fans aren't running properly, both elevators have frequently been inoperative, the electric,al sockets were installed upside down, and too many things'luve been left unfinished. We atConcordiensis have a fair number of gripes too. For one thing~ aUT photography darkroom is barely functional. It is one third of the size of Haskin's Lab (our old darkroom); the fan installerl to remove harmful chemical vapors is insufficient; the filters on our safe lights are so dense they block out all visible light (tllus defeating the purpose of having any lights), the list goes 011 and ·on ... Basically, whoever designed-this darkroom knew Iittle about photography. AccDrding to Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, these types (){ problems are standard in a large project with so many diverse: facilities and a lot of mechanical equipment. Any new building goes through a shakedown period where the \bugs\ ate worked out. What is frustrating is that we all have to put up with tllese bugs. Had the contractor completed the building this summer these problems would have been fixed in time for us to enjoy the finished product. As it is, the building has still not been fimshed and it's nearly a year behind schedule. The College has retained 7 1/2% of the contractor's fee as leverage Lo insure that the contractor will fix the problems in the center as quickly as possible . .Meanwhile all we can do is to continue to pressure the company to do their job. As I stepped toward the elevator this afternoon to come back up to fhe office I was greeted by a black hole. Once again they were repaimg the elevator. I wonder if I had fallen down I would have gcuen to see behind the walls and discover if they really did drill boles in the support beams of our beloved old Carnegie to run electrical cables through. Boy what a scoop that would have been! All Leters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and an· writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the ,letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. LETTERS Homecoming Spirit High To the Editors~ We would like to express our enormous tllanks to all the students and student organizations who supported Homecoming '87. In particular, special thanks to the Student Homecoming Committee, who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend were felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events was ex- tensive and impressive, and everything ran smoothly. We appreciate your time and ef- forts to makll this a spectular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did; Congratulations b all of you who participated ill, oUJi 8th Annual Homecomillg Parade. The ,floats were terrific and certainly reflected' a great deal of time and faretho:ugllt. Special congratulation$ t() tile winners: Best OveraU- 'Richmond- Webster; Best Inte11pretation of Theme .. W&UC; Most Original- International House; and Most Clever (Funniest)· Potter .. Davidson-Hickok. Also, a special n()te of thanks to the Concordien.sis staff for their full cooperation and assistance in prom()ting this big fall weekend. We know that .a great amount of time and energy went into tne special Homecoming insert. The,entire Alwnni Office staff has enjoyed working with tliis year's Student Homecoming, Committee and aH of ottr student volunteers. We are already looldng forward to Homecoming ;88. Sincerely,, Bob Bruhn ~&9 Sharron Clark Paul Rieschick '~74 Lisa Tortorello ~!39 David Shin berg 'BII Kerry Mendez Kathy Mullaney '74 Maria Chiormitro Andrew Marein-Efron'B9 Laura Cassidy '89 Maria Kapogiannis '89 COMMENT ARIES Plans Progressing for Continued Renovations - . By STUDENT GROUNDS COMMl'ITEE In our continuing effort to be involved in. Physical Plant deciSions, the Student Grounds Committee participated in a Campus Liaison Committee meeting. The Campus Liaison Committee consists of professors and the Director of Campus Operations, Jack Hill. The committee meets once a month to discuss issues relevant tothe grounds and buildings. The major topic of this month's meeting was the planned installation of chains and bollards on Alexander Lane in front of Alumni Gym and Butterfield Hall. 'This is in keeping with the plan of closing off internal roads of the college from automobJles. This past sl,liiliiler the road in front of North College leading to the Arts building was closed in a similar fashion. The primary reason for closing the roads is to provide a safer campus for student and faculty pedestrians. Concerns, such as access to Science and Engineering were raised by the professors, but Mr. Hill a!lsured us that access to the Science and Engineering loading platform will still be available. One of the major reasons for the closing of Alexander Lane is the use and often abuse of the road by ()n-campus and off- campus drivers~ A study con- ducted last year by Mr; Hill's office, proved conclusively that the majority of traffic on the road was a result of town- speople taking a short-cut. \No Tbru Traffic\ warning signs will be posted at the entrances to the college and the blockades will be of heavy construction and well marked with reflective signs. . Future plans call for a similar blockade ()n the road between Lamont H()use and Hwnanities. This plan is not definite yet as a decision must be made where to put the blockade. The Student Grounds Committee members were concerned about the escort services inability to reach many of the buildings on campus because of the blockades. Mr. Hill commented that escort as well as security and maintenance vehicles will still have access to the roads. People in · official college capacities would be given a key to the chains along with the key to the conege vehicle. Other issues raised included: -the faeulty's concern over reserved parking for selected faculty and staff members. Letters to the Editor and · Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of n -'~ ... -~ 1 ~ Faculty membel's feel that certain college employees should not be given preferential treatment; that eteryone who works for the C()llege should have equal access t() parking. -the college's failure to complete capital :pr()jects on time, for example, Hale House kitchen, College Center, Steinmetz renovatioll, and third floor Old Chapel (Career Development Center). Mr. Hill explained that the mllege is an awkward position because many of the capital projects are , too large for small contractors and too small f()r large con- tractors in the area. ~maintenance vehicles driving on the grass. Mr. Hill informed us that no college vehicle is permitted to drive on the grass unless tbere is an absolute need to do so, for example, to deliver equipment to a work site or furniture, etc. to buildings. Mr.llill instructed us that all Physical Plant vehicles are numbered and his office would appreciate knowing the n1Ililber of the vehicle and tlu time and location of any-one violating Physical Plant's p()licy. Student Groun<ls Committee members inquired about the leaks in the College Center which have damaged ceilings and walls. It turns out that the College Center is technically 99 percent completed. 'The co-n- tractor must install specially made to order panels in the atriwn which will allow the removal of the unsightly plywood. Mr. Hill further stated that the contractor is liable for all water damage and that the college is withholding a Sllb- stantial portion of the remaining payment to ensure a . . timely and satisfactory com- pletion of the College Center. Last but not least, Physieal Plant was applauded on the job well done during the freak snowstorem. Professors and students noted that while most of the . Capital district was crippled, Union College suf- fered only a minor power outage and clean-up was prompt and thorough. The Student Grounds Com- mittee needs your input. If y-ou have any questions, commeats, or suggestions please feel free to contact one of the members. The Student Grounds COom- mittee can make a difference, but only if we· hear from you. - Wl passi to eli the I the J Ever blacl the · de nil han~ we\'! of L ln find fair) pick1 freq1 outd quic less muc $4f< H. ow tasti ders deri deci cow you are chw pig Foi1 mar wer we exp< witt enol th!lt diff< con< oil t to f Elli A pall nee pnl whi as· fair tryJ 0 ad\'J offE • 4 • • • • • • . .. . . :::::::;:?

Page 8 CONCORDIENS!S, October 22, 1987 ------~--------~~------------------------------ <lLDnrnrbtrnsis Foundrtl or ! imon Coll~t' 187~ Represented? The Board of Trnstees met earlier this month and didn't hear a word of student concern. Well, maybe they did, and perhaps there weren't many student worries, but if you did have a concern, you weren't given a chance to voice it. The Student Forum allowed the Trustees' meeting to pass without attemting to contact the students for their opinion. The Forum does have open office hours but did not announce that their fall meeting with the people who make the big decisions was at hand. The office hours themselves have received little publicity since tfle beginning of the year. If they had informed us, we could have made a few suggestions: work on admissions policy and residence 1 ifc resources to end overcrowding. Study the idea of a new dorm or apartment complex, possibly in the northwest corner of campus. Appropriate money or :.-;tart a fund to assist fraternities with liability insurance. Examine the General Education proposals and offer their opinion for consideration. Discuss the several yet- unresolved problems with the yet-named College Center. Tell the Trustees about the unpleasant incidents that administration seems to have already forgotten: date mpe and assault, in which alcohol played a role both times. Even tell them that the Idol should be moved back to its old home behind the library, or that we need more periodicals, or anything. That's our right--to have our opinion heard. So far this year the Forum has not called an open meeting, but when they do, use it. Stop in on third floor College Center in the evening for office hours. Learn who your class reps are and contact them. If you really want to be heard, don't despair, and write a letter to the editor. Every trustee receives Concordiensis each week; they see the letters, and they've seen all the stories. Breakdown When the elevator rose a foot and then ground to a halt it became obvious that it wasn't going to be a great day. Then, once it reversed direction and dccended to its intended destination, the unhealthy creaking noises it made were far from comforting. There have been a lot of complaints about technical failures in the \College Center.\ The skylight\ leak, the fans aren't nmning properly, both elevators have frequently been inoperative, the electrical sockets were installed upsid~ down. and too many things have been left unfinished. We at Concordicnsis have a fair number of gripes too. For one thing, our photography darkroom is barely functional. It is one third of the size of Haskin's Lab (our old darkroom); the fan installed to remove harmful chemical vapors is insufficient; the filters on our safdights arc .;o dense they block out all visible light (thus defeating the purpose of having any lights), the list goes on and ·on ... Basically, whoever designed this darkroom knew little about photography. According to Jack Hill, Director of Campus Operations, these types of problems are standard in a large project with so many diverse facilities and a lot of mechanical equipment. Any new building goes through a shakedown period where the \bugs\ are worked out. What is frustrating is that we all have to put up with these bugs. Had the contractor completed the building this summer these problems would have been fixed in time for us to enjoy the finished product. As it is, the building has still not been finished and it's nearly a year behind schedule. The College has retained 7 l/2% of the contractor's fee as leverage to insure that the contractor will fix the problems in the center as quickly as possible. Meanwhile all we can do is to continue to pressure the company to do their job. As I stepped toward the elevator this afternoon to come back up to the office I was greeted by a black hole. Once again they were repairng the elevator. I wonder if I had fallen down I would have gotten to see behind the walls and discover if they really did drill holes in the support beams of our beloved old Carnegie to run electrical cables through. Boy what a scoop that would have been! All Leters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. LETTERS Homecoming Spirit High To the Editors: We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and stlldent organiZations who SUP'P<Jrted Homecomin:g '87. In partic:ular, special tllanks to the Student Homecom.ing Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organi::zations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperati<Jn of the weekend were felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events was ex- tensive and impressive, and everything ran smoothly. We appreciate your time and ef- forts to make this a spectular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did. Congratulations to all of you who participated in our 8th Annual Homecoming Parade. The floats were terrific and certaillly reflected a great deal of time and forethought. Special congratulations to the winners: Best Overall- Richmond- Webster; Best Interpretation of Theme- WRUC; Most Original- International House; and Most Clever (Funniest)- Potter- Davidson-Hickok. Also, a special note of thanks to the Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and assistance tn promoting this l>ig fall weekend. We knQw that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alwnni Office staff has enjoyed working with tb.is year's Stadent Homecoming Committee and aU of our student volunteers. We are already looking forward to Homecoming '88. Sincerely, Bob Bruhn '69 Sharon Clark Paul Rieschick '74 Lisa TortoNllo '89 DavidShinberg '86 Kerry Mendez Kathy Mullaney '74 Maria Chiormitro Andrew Marein-Efron'89 Laura Cassidy '89 Maria Kapogiannis '89 COMMENTARIES Plans Progressing for Continued Renovations By STUDENT GROUNDS COMMITTEE In our continuing effort to be involved in Physical Plant decisions, the Student Grounds Committee participated in a Campus Liaison Committee meeting. The Campus Liaison Committee consists of professors and the Direct()r of Campus Operations, Jack: Hill. The committee meets once a month to discuss issues relevant tothe grounds and buildings. The major topic of this month's meeting was the planned installation of chains and bollards on Alexander Lane in front of Alumni Gym and Butterfield Hall. This is in keeping with the plan of dosing off internal roads of the C!ollege from au.tomo biles. This past summer the road in frmt of North C<lllege leading to the A1ts building was closed in a similar fashion. The pt-imary reason for closing the roads is to provide a safer campus for student and faculty pedestrians. Concerns, such as access to Science and Engineering were raised by the professor-s, but Mr. Hill assured us that access to the Science and Engi11.eering loading platform will still he available. One of the major reasons for the closing of Alexander Lane is the use and often abuse of the road by on-campus and off- campus drivers. A study con- ducted last year by Mr- Hill's office, p1·oved conclusively that the majority of traffic on the road was a result of town- speople taking a short~ut. \No Thru Traffic\ warning signs will be posted at the entrances to the college and the blockades will be of heavy construction and well marked with l.\eflective signs. . Future plans call for a similar blockade on the road lletween Lamont House and Humanities. This plan is not definite yet as a decision must be made where to put the blockade. 'l'he Student Grounds Committee members were concerned about the escort services inallUity to reach many of the builclings on campus because ()f the blockades. Mr. Hill commented that escort as well as security and maintenance vehieles will still ha-ve access to tl:le roads. People in official college capacities would be given a key to the chains along with the key to the college vehicle. Other issues raised illcluded: -the faculty'S' conceTn over reserved parking for selected faculty and staff members. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Co · · Faculty members feel that certain college employees should not be given preferential treatment; that everyone who works for the college should have equal access to parking. -the college's faiJure to complete capital projects on time, for example, Hale House kitchen, College Center, Steinmetz renovation, and third floor Old Chapel (Career Development Center). Mr. Hill explained that the college is an awkward position because many of the capital projects are too large for small contractors and too small for large con- tractors in the area. -maintenance vehicles driving on the grass. Mr. Hill informed us that no college vehicle is permitted to drive on the grass unless there is an absolute need to do so, for example, to deliver equipment to a work site or furniture, etc. to baildings. Mr. Hill instructed us that all Physical Plant vehicles are numbered and his office would appreciate knowing the number of the vehicle and the time and location of anyone violating Physical Plant's policy. Student Grounds Committee members in~tuired about the leaks in the College Center which have damaged ceilings and walls. It turns out that the College Center is technically 99 percent c<Jmpleted. The con- tractor must install specially made to order panels in the atrium which will allow the removal of the unsightly plywood. Mr. Hill further stated that the contractor is liable for all water damage and that the college is withholding a sub- stantial portion of the remaining payment to ensure a timely and satisfactory com- pletion of the College Center. Last but not least, Physical Plant was applauded on the job well done during the freak snowstorem. Professors and students noted that while most of the Capital district was crippled, Union College suf- fered only a minor power outage and clean-up was prompt and thorough. The Student Grounds Com- mittee needs your input. If you have any questions, comments, or suggestions please feel free to contact one of the members. The Student Grounds Com- mittee can make a difference, but only if we hear from you. W1 pass to cl the 1 the 1 Eve1 blac the deni hanc we' of L In find fair, pick freq outd quic less muc $4f• Ho\ tast: derf deri deci com you are chu1 pig For mar wer we exp witl eno· thal cliff, con oil 1 to f Eur A pal: nee Un: wh as fail try c ad~ of£1 . ~ • • • • • • • 4

CONCORDIENSIS, October 22, 1987 Page 9 A Summer In Paris Qy LYNN DUFFY and DANA ROSEN Wbile some of you were passlllg by the N ott on the way to clllss.es, we were passing by the :Eiffel Tower on the way to the !merican College in Paris. Even through the ever-present black: clouds and pouring rain, the beauty of Paris was un- denictble-. So, with umbrella in hand~\ and baguette underarm, we ventured throagh the \City of L~ve''. Bono. We visited Giverny, the home of Monet, and stood near the very lily pond depicted in prints that are in every female's dorm room at Union. We bumped into two Figi brothers at the Louvre while checking to see if the Mona Lisa was ac- . tually watching us move back and forth. We took a train to the ~outskirts of Paris to see David Bowie, and on J.uly fourth, we , had a rende,Z-vous with U2. A certain senior lacrosse player told us that he, too, was there, but we looked at every face of the 75,000 people that attended and did nat spot him. tense, and fear of terrorist escalation put a damper on the mood of the city. The fear of terrorism finally struck home when a bomb seare occurred at our school. As we were lea-ving the school, we were grabbed I>Y two security men. and shoved back into the building. We had failed to notiee the alleged bomb-filled stiitc41se and the SWAT team maneuvering out front. When w:e saw a bomb- dismantling robot walking down the street, we knew that it was time to say \aurevoir\ to Paris. Although we enjoyed perusing around Paris, seeing and doing all that there was to see and do, nothing was more intoxicating than our nights spent just strolling d()Wn the Champs Elysees at dusk, watching the sunset behing L' Arc de Triomphe, and sitting at a cafe being sedated by the eloquent French language. · ln :Frarice, we had hoped to fin~ goCJd f()od, fine wine, and fairy tale romance. We quickly picked up the Parisien habit of freqllenting corner ''brasseries, outd!Jor cafes. And, just as quicJi;ly, these lunches became less frequent. For starters, mucb t() our amusement, it cost $4 fol' an 8-oz. bottle of Perrier. However, the food_ was fan- tastic, that is when you un- derstood what y()U were or- dering, If by · ~hance you decicied to order \duporc de la couanne sur un litde la salade,\ you :sMuld be aware that you are· going to pay $12 for huge chws of serni-cooked pork and pig skin on a bed of lettuce. F ortmately, the mistake did manage to serve a purpose; we wert!! no longer hungry. Finally, we did manage to get to . an expeJlsive restaurant (flirting with anorexia in ()rder to save enollghmoney), and discovered that the clientel was vastly different at fancier places. We concluded this after an edlerly oil tycoon from Tex:as asked us to fly to his home in .southern E11rope for the weekend. One weekend, we escaped. the smog of Paris and spent a , picturesque weekend on the Riviera. We saw this as a perfect time to shed our rain gear and jump into our bathing suits. Others at the beach chose to just shed it all! Although the beach was a bit rocky, the turquoi$e Mediterranean could not be beat. We folllld the most efficient form of transportation in Paris to be the underground railroad. The heart of Paris can be found in the Metro. · Musicians, beggars, pick-pockets, and flashers were just a few of the colorful characters who called the metro their home. Some chose to fill its corriders with festive music, while others were there merely to harass young Americ.an females. It wasn't uncommon to board a car halfway through a puppet show. However, ~t was uncommon to find two empty seats. While at first, we had been intimidated, we soon became ''masters of the metro''. Bergman's \The Seventh Sea~l\ to Be Shown Along with satiating our pala:tes, we indulged in the necessary ritual of wine tasting. pnanimously, we elected Kir white wine and creme de cassis as our summer drink. As. for fairy tale romance\! We plan on trying Italy next summer. By AlME SIMON \The Seventh Seal\ (1-956) is the film that brought director Ingmar Bergman into full public view. Set in fourteenth century Sweden, it tells of a crusader's quest for God. The ·plot is easy to follow. A .knight, Antonius Block, returns disillusioned from the holy land to learn that his country is being ravaged by the bubonic plague. The fig11re Death comes to claim the crusader, but is in- stead challenged to a game of chess. Antonius is able to distract Death so that a young couple, Jof and Maria, and their baby Michael {representing the Christ family) can escape the plague. ~s a result, he loses the chess game and when he arrives home, he finds Death waiting on his doorstep to claim him. The simple story line belies the complex philosophical questions that Bergman's film ex:amines. Although set in the middle ages, it studies man's eternal search for the meaning of life. The crusader represents every man confronted with the existential truth that there is no moral order in the universe and that the only certainty is death. Trying to hide from the truth and satisfy his psychological need for certainty, the crusader creates the notion of an all powerful God. However, in the end, Antonius wisely gives up his futile intellectual tran· scendental questionings, and . sees the existential reality that man creates himself through his actions. ~ Thus, Antonius, saving the Christ family,.. shows his lov-e of humanity and his ability to accept human af- fection instead of trying to win God's love. Finally, the crusader can face the ultimate existen-tial truth that the pur- pose of life is simply life itself, and tllerefore accepts death without fear or bitterness. While watching the film on Wednesday evening, keep in mind the following questions: What is the significance ()f the title \The Seventh Seal\ ? To what exa could the medieval setting be compared? What does the scenery represent? How do.es it help create mood? What d·()eS the sharing ()f the wild strawberries and fresh cream i>y the knight, Jof and Mia symbolize? On to culture ... We really took. advantage of all Paris had to offer, ~verything irom Monet to The excitement in Paris was endless. Living just a few blocks from the Iranian Embassy this summer certainly added a bit of intrigue to our daily excursions. Midway through J u1y, France broke ()ff all diplomatic relations with Iran. The em- bassy sealed its doors; no one was allowed to enter or exit. The situation·· was undeniably ••••••••••••••••••••••• Chinese Journalist Visits J.C.A. • • • GERMAN TABLE EVERY THURSDAY • • • • 12:30- 1:30 • The Junior College of Albany \Off-the-Shelf'' series will present journalist Wu Wei on Wednesday, October 21 from 10 to 11 a.m. Wei will discuss and compare newspaper reporting of. China and the United States. The discussion, free and open to the public, will be held in Room 105 of the Albany campus Center, 140 New Scotland Avenue. • • • COLLEGE CENTER 8 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • October 24 United Nations Day We are sorry to inform you that the scheduled speaker is unable to attend Wei is c11rrently completing a tour of America and will go back to China · in early --- - t A Year in Switzerland)' How is your standing? Dean's list? Are you majoring in either Science or Engineering? Are you a sophomore or 5-year dual major Engineering student? The \E.T.H.\ (Eidgenossische . l Technische Hochschule) Exchange Scholar (an honor listed qn your record) for 1988-89 is now being sought. Classes there ! are given only in German, but if you are selected .by our 0 committee, you can start taking German for the first time in the l Winter Term, and Spring Term, as long as you are willing then to • 1 spend the summer at a Goethe Institute German Program , somewhere in Germany. Notices will be sent to scien.ce and engineering majors who 1 are on the Dean's list as soon as received from the .Registrar, » but for earlier information, see Prof. William Martip.in Chemistry (Room S-339). As soon as notices have been out for a day or two, an INFORMATION meeting will be held, with one Union student (Colleen Rimlinge.r) who was our Exchange sc·holar, and with one or two SWiss students who are ,at Union this year. j · Forms may be obtained at that meeting, and should be filled out , 1 . within 1-1/2 weeks, so that subsequent interviews by a committee may allow us to chose the ONE student whom we shall nominate to the.ETH, w.ith almost certain acceptance of ) the latter by late winter, We want to complete the selection before the term is over, so that our nomination and the application for the ETH may g0c out before Christmas. ' I I - - - November. He came on a fellowship from Stanford University to study journalism. He holds a master's degree in English language and literature from Xiamen University in China, and a master's in journalism from Stanford University. Weihasworked as a reporter on \The Daily News\ of Longview, Washington, and is currently the U.S. correspondent for the \China Daily\ in China. The JCA \Off-the-Shelf\ series presents area writers who in addition to reading from their works discuss the creative process with students and the comm1111.ity. The event is co-sponsored by Poets and Writers, Inc., .. which is funded by the literature program of the New York State Council on the Arts, and the JCA Activities Board. For more inform21tion, contact Dr. Helen Staley of the JCA Humanities Division at 445-1738. International Films \bne and One Makes Three\ The German Club offers this German film with Engl.ish subtitles. Monday, Oct. 26, 7 pm College Center 409 \La Cage aux Folies\ Presented by the French Club on Monday, Oct. 26 at 7:15pm i.n the basement of Webster. Following the film will be a discussion group (coffee will be served). \Xingu-lndians in BrazW' Videos from Brazil, Prof. Ester Kosovki Wednesday, Oct. 28 at 6 p.m. Soc. Sci. Building room 105 International Film Festival Oct. 28, \The Seventh Seal\ lngmar Bergman

CONCORDIENSIS, Octo.ber 22, 1987 Page 9 INTERNATION.AL FEATURES - . A Summer In Paris By LYNN DUFFY and DANA ROSEN While some of you were passing by the Nott on the way to classes, we were passing by the Eiffel Tower on the way to the American Cellege in Paris. Even througll the ever-present black clouds and pauring rain, the beauty of Paris was un- deniable. So, with umbrella in hand and baguette underarm, we ventured tllrough the ''City of Love\. Bono. We visited Giverny, the home of Monet, and stood near the very lil.y pond depicted in prints that are in every female's dorm roam at Unton. We bumped into two Figi brothers at the Louvre while checking to see if the Mona Lisa was ac- tually watching us move back and forth. We took a train to the outskirts of Paris to see David Bowie, aad on July fourth, we had a rendez-vous with U2. A certain senior lacrosse player told us that he, too, was there, but we looked at every face of the 75,000 people that attended and did not spot him. tense, and fear .of terrorist escalation put a damper on the mood of the city. The fear of terrorism finally struck home when a bomb scare occurred at our school. As we were leaving the school, we were grabbed by two security men and shoved back into the building. We had failed to notice the aleged bomb-filled suitcase and the SWAT team maneuvering out front. When we saw a bomb- dismantling robot walking down the street, we knew that it was time to say \au revoir\ to Paris. Although we enjoyed perusing around Paris, seeing and doing all that there was to see and do, nothing was m@re intoxicating than our nights spent just strolling down the Champs Elysees at dusk, watching the sunset behing L' Arc de Triomphe, and sitting at a cafe being sedated by the eloquent French language. In France, we had hoped to find good food, fine wine, and fairy tale romance. We quickly picked up the Parisien habit of frequenting corner \brasseries outdoor cafes. And, just as quickly, these lunches became less frequent. For starters, much to our amusement, it cost $4 for an 8-oz. bottle of Perrier. However, the food was fan- tastic, that is when you un- derstood what you were or- dering. If by chance you decided to order \duporc de la couanne sur un lit de la salade,'' you should be aware that you are going to pay $12 for huge chunks of semi-cooked pork and pig skin on a bed of lettuce. Fortunately, the mistake did manage to serve a purpose; we were no longer hungry. Finally, we did manage to get to an expensive restaurant (flirting with anorexia in order to save enough money), and discovered that the clientel was vastly different at fancier places. We concluded this after an edlerly oil tycoon from Texas asked us to fly to his home in southern Europe for the weekend. One weekend, we escaped the smog of Paris and spent a picturesque weekend on the Riviera. We saw this as a perfect time to shed our rain gear and jump into our bathing suits. Others at the beach chose to just shed it all! Although the beach was a bit rocky, the turquoise Mediterranean could not be beat. We found the most efficient form of transportation in Paris to be the underground railroad. The heart of Paris can be found in the Metro. Musicians, beggars, pick-pockets, and flashers were just a few of the colorful characters who called the metro their home. Some chose to fill its corriders with festive music, while others were there merely to harass young American females. It wasn't Wlcommon to board a car halfway through a puppet show. However, it was uncommon to find two empty seats. While at first, we had been intimidated, we soon became ''masters of the metro\. Bergman's \The Seventh Seal\ to Be Shown Along with satiating our palates, we indulged in the necessary ritual of wine tasting. Unanimously, we elected Kir white wine and creme de cassis as our sununer drink. As for fairy tale romance? We plan on trying Italy next summer. ByAIMESIMON \The Seventh Seal\ (1:956) is the film that brought director Ingmar Bergman into full public view. Set in fourteenth century Sweden, it tells of a crusader's Quest for God. The plot is easy -to follow. A .knight, Antonius Block, returns disillusioned from the holy land to learn that his country is being ravaged by the bubonic plague. The figure Death comes to claim the crusader, but is in- stead challenged to a game of chess. Antonius is able to distract Death so that a young couple, Jof and Maria, and their baby Michael (representing the Christ family) can escape the plague. As a result, he loses the chess game and when he arrives home, he finds Death waiting on his doorstep to claim hirn. Tile simple story line belies the complex philosophical questions that Bergman's film examines. Although set in the middle ages, it studies man's eternal search for tile meaning of life. The crusader represents every man confr()ated with the existential truth that there is no moral order in the wiverse and that the only certainty is death. Trying to hide from the truth and satisfy his psychological neeci for certainty, the crusader creates the notion of an all pov;erful God. However, in the end, Antonius wisely gives up his futile intellectual tran- scendental questionings, and sees the existential reality that man creates himself through his actions. Thus, Antonius, saving the Christ family, shows his love of humanity and his ability to accept human af- fection instead of trying to win God's love. Finally, the cmsader can face the ultimate existential truth that the pur· pose of life is simply life itself, and therefore accepts death without fear or bitterness. While watching the film on Wednesday evening, keep in mrnd the following questions: What is the significance of the title \The Seventh Seal\? To wh<tt era could the medieval setting be compared? What does the scenery represent? How does it help create mood? What does the sharing of the wild strawberries and fresh cream by the knight, J of and Mia symbolize? On to culture .. -We really took advantage of all Paris had to offer, everything from Monet to The excitement in Paris was endless. Living just a few blocks from the Iranian Embassy this summer certainly added a bit of intrigue to our daily excursions. Midway through July, France broke off all diplomatic relations with Iran. The em- bassy sealed its doors; no one was allowed to enter or exit. The situation was undeniably •••••••••••••••••••••• 0 Chinese Journalist Visits J.C.A. • • • • GERMAN TABLE EVERY THURSDAY 12:30- 1:30 • • • • • • The Junior College of Albany ''Off-the-Shelf\ series will present journalist Wu Wei on Wednesday, October 21 from 10 to 11 a.m. Wei will discuss and compare aewspaper reporting of China and the United States. The discussion, free and open to the public, will be held in Room 105 of the Albany campus Center, 140 New Scotland Avenue. • COLLEGE CENTER • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 0 • • • IS u·Table Every Friday 12:30·1 :30, Dutch Hollow Pub Active M~mbers <Jiscuss latest issues Wei is currently completing a tour of America and will go back to China in early · , . 'Call Nicholas x6826 or Una x4439 . .< .·:·: .. · .. ·. : . . . . . . : :·· : October 24 United Nations Day We are sorry to inform you that the scheduled speaker is unable to attend I ----- - -- - A Year in Switzerland? How is your standing? Dean's list? Are you majoring in either ) Science or Engineering? Are you a sophomore or 5-year dual major_ Engineering student? The \E.T.H.\ (Eidgeno~sische ~l Techn1sche Hochschule) Exchange Scholar (an honor l1sted on ~ your record) for 1988-89 is now being sought. Classes there are given only in German, but if you are selected by our t committee, you can start taking German for the first time in the Winter Term, and Spring Term, as long as you are willing then to spend the summer at a Goethe Institute German Program somewhere in Germany. Notices will be sent to science and engineering majors who are on the Dean's list as soon as received from the Registrar, but fo.r earlier information, see Prof. William Martin in Chemistry (Room S-339). As soon as notices have been out for a day or two, an INFORMATION meeting will be held, with one Union student (Colleen Rimlinger) who was our Exchange Scholar, :. and with one or two Swiss students who are at Union this year_ Forms may be obtained at that meeting, and should be filled out • within 1-1/2 weeks, so that subsequent interviews by a 1t committee may allow us to chose the ONE student whom we J shall nominate to the ETH, with almost certain acceptance of t the latter by late winter. We want to complete the selection before the term is over, so that our nomination and the application for the ETH may go out before Christmas. -- - - -- - November. He c.ame on a feU()wship from Stanford University to study journalism. He holds a master's degree in English language a11d literature from Xiamen University in China, and a master's in journalism from Stanford University. Wei has worked as a reporter on ''The Daily News\ of Longview, Washington, and is currently the U.S. correspondent for the \China Daily\ in China. 1'he .JCA \Off-the-Shelf\ series presents area writers wh() in addition to reading from their works discuss the creative process with students and the community. The event is co-sponsored by Poets and Writers, Inc.,, which is funded by the literature program of the New York State Council on the Arts, and the JCA Activities Board. For more information, contact Dr. Helen Staley of the JCA Humanities Division at 445-1738. International Films &'bne and One Makes Three\ The German Club offers this German film with English subHtles. Monday, Oct. 26, 7 pm College Center 409 ~'La Cage aux Folies\ Presented by the French Club on Monday, Oct. 26 at 7:15 pm in the basement of Webster. Following the film will be a discussion group (coffee will be served). \Xingu-lndians in Brazil\ Videos from Brazil, Prof. Ester Kosovki W,ednesday, Oct. 28 at 6 p.m. Soc. Sci. Building room 105 International Film Fes1ival Oct. 28, \The Seventh Seal\ lngmar Bergman

Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS, October 22, 1987 ARTS & FILMS At Proctor's • • • Singing In the Rain By DARREN BINDER It was only appropriate for the national touring company presentation of \Singin' In The Rain\ to play in Schenectady this past week. After all, with a special effects mashine that actually created rainon the stage, most o~ the Proctor's audience .felt right at home. Many people, in fact, purchased tickets for the play only after learning about the Wlique rain machine. This special device pumped and recirculated over 500 gallons of water in a way that would please even Gene Kelly. The musical comedy, based upon the 1952 MGM film with the same name, focuses on th.e lives of Don Lockwood (Jay Cranford) and Lina Lamont (Liz McCarthy), two fictiti()US Arts Happenings ON CAMPUS Photo club meeting 8-9 pm in room 203 of College Center on Thursday, October 22nd. Union College Film Commit- tee presents Hoosiers at 7, 9 and 11 pm on October 23, 24 and 25 in the College Center Aud. Emerson String Quartet in concert at Memorial Chapel on Saturday, October 24th at 8 pm. OFF CAMPUS Union College Concert Com- mittee co-sponsors James Taylor at Proctors on October 24th at 8 pm. silent film stars of the late 192()'s. With studio hype, the characters are billed as a Hollywood \couple\ and begin a Sl!.CCeSSful film career. However, the invention of sound movies and its sudden P<Jpularity with the American public causes panic in Don and 8 Lina 's studio. The studio has so ·~ far been able to keep Lina from c. making any public speeches in .~ fear that her fans will be turned ·a: off by 'her shrill voice. Don's § sidetrack, Cosmo Brown The cast Of Singing in The Rain in a very likable way. Her voice, resembling that of a dying horse, proved to be a constant source of amusement. Jimmy { (J.immy Busbin) remarked, \Lina can't sing, can't act,. and can't dance .. a triple threat!\ The plot reaches its climax when another actress, Kathy Selden (Liz Ward), is secretly called in to dub over Lina's lines. The two women become involved in a bitter dispute ending with the hot-tempered Lina humiliated in front ·of her once adoring fans. Fine performances by Liz McCarthy and Jimmy Busbin along with fantastic special effects enabled the play to live up to its classic past. Liz McCarthy 'Was able to p(ntray the self-eentered Lina Lamont Busbin's character also delighted the audience whenever he mimicked and ridicttled the conceited actress. The transformation from film Up coining Event: James Taylor By JAN GOLDSTEIN Grammy Award winning James Taylor will perform this Saturday, October 24 at Proctor's Theatre. T~lor, whose brother, Livingston sang last week in Memorial Chapel, will bring his twenty years of musical talent to stage ina concert co--sponsored by the Union College Concert Com· mittee. A few of Taylor's prized accomplishments are his 1972 and 1978 Grammy-winning songs \You've Got A Friend\ and \Handyman\. Massachusetts born Taylor began his musical career as a member of his older brother Alex.'s rock group and later in a Greenwich Village-era band. After moving to London to record a demo tape and audition for record companies, Taylor was. signed by Peter Asher, on Apple .Records. In 1968 his first solo album titled James Taylor, was released in the 1J .K. Taylor's popular'ity skyrocketed in 1970 wheil his album Sweet Baby Jamet~ hit the top of the charts. 'rhis success was followed by numerous other hit singles and top albums. Taylor's fame has reS:ulted from his composition of cultural standards and interpretations Df other artists' work. Some of 'I'aylor'shits include: \Firoe and Rain\ \Your Smiling FCJ.ce\ o 1-0 and remakes of Marvin G:aye's ''How Sweet It Is (To Be Loved 1E By You)\ and the Drifters~ \Up ::J· On A Roof\. Currently, Taylor u:: is working on the promotion of Tickets are still available for the upcoming concert at the College Center Atrium in- formation booth. his new album, \NeveL\ Die Young\ which is due to be released early next year. Tickets for Beehive and Waves are now on sale at College Center Information Booth ! No·vember 18,1987 November 19,1987 Beehive Waves Get Your Tickets Now o '1'f\ells-rA1\c 10 srv~ sl fWD; smt¥ 0 UJ tfJC £q .1 ~ nerv RNs 1D 7He A JR . S(-lluRDI\Y WtfH 111~ VNIDN- cof\sr eJAf(p rroWALL 6M'e ~\'\\) WI\.\. ~N ~N A~ReJI~J\eD eJ€NINb 5G#eDVL~ 0NilL. -me tw-. 9:{-lepJ[e f:f'biNS tJI NDVfN)~fR 1;- Last Day to Withd,raw fro,m Cou·rses ls Tuesday, 10/27 to play is often a difficult process. By definition, it would seem that :\Singin' In The Rain\ would not be easy to perform in the theater. The play managed, however, to make the best out of the limitations im- posed by an· indoor set. Emerson Quartet to Appear at Union- By ELIZAB~TH BERLINER On Sat~day, October 24 at 8 p.m., the Emerson String Quartet will make its third appearance in the college's Memorial Chapel as part of the Schenectady Museum - Union College Concert Series. In . a review hy the New York Times, this quartet was called ''perhaps the most distinguished of America's new generation of quartets.\ Along with world-renowned cellist Roberta Cooper, it will present a spectacular performance of a Schubert cello quintet. The Emerson has performed over 120 concerts annually in the last 5 seasons in practically every major North American city and in many forei~n cities such as Tokyo and Paris. Its European debut in 1983 was spectacular, with headlines proclaiming \Four New Stars in the Quartet Heavens\ and since then the group has gained notoriety throughout Europe and in the Far ~ast. The Emerson members are Philip Seltzer, Eugene Drucker, Lawrence Dutton and David F inckel. Their performance includes works of Beethoven and Bartok, as well as con- temporary and standard works. All four are active members of Performing Artists for Disarmament and have presented concerts to benefir .. the causes of world peace and poverty. The Emerson now records exclusively (In the Deutsche Grammophon label and produced their first reeording in May at the Troy Music Hall. They have performed works by Gunther Schuller, Ceal Effinger, Ellen Taffe Zwilich, John McCabe, and GeQrge Tsontakis. · Tickets are $10 and are available at the schenectady Museum, all Community Box Offices,. the Palace Theater, and at the door. For any ad- ditional information, call 382- 7890. Writing Workshop 9:30 ptn Wednesdays in Humanities RM 113. · ... -- - L K 11/. II .is t1 tt rE C: al tli t~ t~ g] m al et oJ w: St 'h~ w m at

CONCORDJENSIS, (!c.tQhe,r 22, 1987 Page 11 = ARTS & FILMS Jim and Buddy at . Th:e Movies By JiM MACUIJiliiUN LIKE FATHER LIEE SON Starring Dudley 1\oll()ore and Kirk Cameron. · At Crossgates a11!1 Mohawk Mall Cinemas. Rated PG For one to ]ol()k in the newspaper ads fen~ tiL~ movie \Like Father Like Si>n\' · one might be inclined to think that it is a topnotcp corned~. Bowever, that is not true. Eatller, place this movie mtder 'lt'bat this reviewer terms ·th~a ' 'Reed, Crist, and Shalit ·PostlilCJti!' '. An all-too-frequently invoked theorum that calls f{)r the thoughtful moviegoer:- to ·check the names cre!lit!Ed t<> the glowing quotatio11s: fo~d in most film adVEr\'tisements allow for a large degree of error, and add a goCJd neasure of . cynicism witil· re~t~l:\ds to_ what the ad says. Tw JS not to suggest that certain l'eviewers- bave diminished- stalldllrds, but why is it that .for alirlo:st every movie out, the Sane 11eviewers are featured itJ. the 11evspaper ads? \Like Father Like Son\ Is one of those fihns that does ft1ature . a thesaurus ·of preferential adjectives in its ad, yet; won't be called upon for positive profundity. In short, ''Like Father Like Son\ just isn't funny. With veteran Dudley Moore and teenage heart throb Kirk Cameron, the movie gives the impression tl!at it could have been wortllwhile. ID$tead, it limps along with the grace. of a \GUligan's Island~' dream sequence ·episodes. In fact, the plot · was prvbably lifted. from such_ an epillode, as memory can recall numerous similar storylines, i.e .•.. Di$ney's \Freaky Friday\ and an ABC Afterschool Special starring Robert Klein. That's right, fqlks, it's another_ 'brain transfer' movie where a parent and child switch minds .. Thus, \Like Fatber Like Son\ deliverS. us Dudley Moore accidently swallowin_g 'some \brain transference serum\ changing minds With teenage son Kirk, \I can smile my way to the bank\ 3 Cameron, and going forth to wreak a movie£~ of comedic havok. The only problem being that the script- writers forgot the 'co,medic havok' pat't. When Cameron GIVE IT A WHIRL ·AND CURL·L·L O.pen Curi Mon.-Fri. 3 :30·5- pm In tram urals 7-9:30 pm tact· Dan Fridgen 370~6134 ·wE WA:NT YOU TO CU·RL! 1 2 3 4 5 6 ~©~~r.La:.~® rrum~J[}{ Crossgates Man Cinema, Dirty Dancing Someone to Watch Over Mie Stakeout Baby Boom Fatal Attraction Sicillian Prom Night f;l PG 13 1:55, 4:50, 7:45, 10:2(), 12:30 R 1 :35, 4:15, 7:3o, to:to, 12:25 R 12:25, 3:25, 6:45, 9:40, 12·:20 PG Sat. at 8:55 instead of. 9:40 Stakeout . R 12:55, 3:50,7:05, 10:05, 12:30 R R 7 · Prince of Darlcin.ess R 1 :30, 4:25, 7:25, 10:15, 12:35 1:10, 9:40, 6:50, 9:55, 1,2:05 1:50, 4:30, 7:15, 9:50, 12:05 8 Like Fathtar, li~eSori PG 13 12:50, 3:45, 6:25, 8:55~ 11:05 9 Suspect R 12:35, 3:35, 6:35. 9:40. 12:15 10 Princess Bric:Ja PG 1:15, 4:00, 6:40, 9:3Q, 11:35 11 The Principal R 12:30, 3:15, 6:20, 9:00. 11 :25 • 12 3 O'Clock Higll PG 13 12:40, a:to, s:2o, s:so, 10:50 findS himself .in his · :father's body does be imll).edi~tely go nightclubbing and girl bunting, no, way, this is thE Eighties people. Instead, >be grabs Dad's Gold Card and embuks upon a whirlwind shopping spree. This isnotto say themovieiswithout its moments.; it has a few, problem is they are so ffar spread out the mo\ie seems about two hours too .long. For Dudley Moore, this fihn has .to be an e,nreme em- barrassment, _ just how long ~ does he thlnk he ~an go on o reprising the same :role. Kirk if Cameron, too, has nothing to ~ brag about in the movie, acting Q along as if he were still on a ~ half-l!our TV sitcom. \Like c. Father Like- Son'\ is simply another trashy IllfJVie that Hollywood cranks out Wider the guise that people \Want to see such diatribe. And, as long as certain reviewers CQntinue to ravage the dictionar:y for new Scene from \~yrln\ at the Egg. Arts Briefs and exciting superli!tives for which they can co1111ect their name to in newspapers people will follow along and view such films. Thus, allowin~ \Big Time' movie producers to keep on flushing more and m<>re similar pieQes of celluoid1ll detritus towards the consumer. 'Film Grade D. Free Movie Night Mother Starring Sissy Spacek Thurs. Oct. 22nd 7:30pm Psych. Building Room 1\1:3 A short meeting for all Psychology Club Members ar1d interested students· will begin at 7:00 pm Free Popccrn! Arthurian Legend Continues at The Egg Espira will pr~sent a staged reading of Myrln, a new play by W.A. Frankonis, on October 29, 30 and 31. Myrln is a romance ·directed by William Kleey aad takes ·place in the \mystical time\ of young King ArthUr. Frankonis continues the Arthurian Legend with his story . of :M;yrln, the wizard and protector. The readings will take place at 8 p.m. and the tickets are $5 for adult and $4 for students. Solo Dramatist Coming November 9th Roberta Nobleman, actress, Albany Symphony Orchestra Celebrates American Music Week. On November 6 and 7 the Albany Symphony Orchestra will perform its second pair of concerts in appreciation of American Music Week. The programs for these concerts will feature tile work of two .American composers: the Fiano concerto No. l by Lukas Foss and George Gershwin's Rhapsody in Blue. The premiere concert will take place in Troy . Savings Bank MtJSic Hall at 8 p.m. and the second at Albany's Palace Theatre also at 8 p.m. Tickets run from $6 to $18. For special . rates and more infonnation call the Box Office at 465-4663. On Golden Pond · teacher, author and spirited pilgrim, will appear at ·the Dominican Retreat House, 19.m Union Street, on November 9. At liome Made Theater, in 7:30p.m. Roberta will portray residence in the Spa Little four characters as she performs theater, Saratoga State Park, \All That I Am,\ a play by will perform Ernest Thomp- Irene Mahoney: In her per- son's . On Golden Pond fonnance she will highlight the N()vember 6 through the 21st. lives of four women and their The play, familiar to most intimate relationships with the tbrough its popular film debut, male clergy in their lives. Each is the 7th production of this ·Of her monologues will include three-year-old company. the use of props and costumes. Jonathan Foster, HMT's Roberta has toured trimphantly Artistic Director and co- both in the United States and founder, is the Pond's director. England. Student discount Tickets are $6-$8. For reser- . available, please call Sr. Joan· vations and dinner packages at 37o.&087. please call 587-4427,. THIS WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES ... HOOSIERS ... Gene Hackman stars as a basketball coach for a small town ·high school that takes on th!:l big cities in the Indiana State tournament. Dennis Hopper and Barbara Hershey co-star in this heartwarming and exciting mov.ie abput the hysteria and tradftion that is Indiana basketbalL RATED PG. Fri., Sat. & Sun. at 7, 9 & 11. SLEEPING BEAUTY ... Walt [)isney's classic animated inter- pretation of this fairy tale is a stLJnning visual and conceptual masterpiece. One of the few movies that really is \fun for all ages.\ RATED G. Tues. at 7, 9 & 11. . All movies ar, $1 for Unlcn students with ID. All stiowlngs at the Carnegie Center Auditorium. Please, no alcoholic beverages or food. ( ,dur h~ lt:ft.hflll.'t11{a:r• ...... ·-·-·-

Page 12 CONCORDIENSISt October 22, 1?87 .• ' ' • • ' • ' ' I • ~-·~· • ' • • ........ ~~. ·~·-·-~· -~--~--' ' • • • SCIENCE.; HEALTH, AND TECHNOLOGY What Happened in .the Large Magellanic Cloud? By ALAN DE SALVIO A star recently .exploded in the galaxy closest to our own, the Large MageHanic Cloud, which is 170,000 light years away. Don't worry, nothing dangerous will reach us, as readers of Ohanian's .in- troductory texts. know, since our own distant sun is eight light minutes away. However, the last time a star exploded like this where we could really see it was 1604, when Johannes Kepler saw one light up his sky. But what's the big deal? So a star blew up, and it rarely happens, why is that im- portant'? It's important because this was a Supernova, an explosion so titanic only the Big Bang that created our universe was more violent. These incredibly rare events (one per one hundred years in our galaxy of 100 billion stars) are th~ only way humanity, life itself, the Earth and even the solar system can be created. Can the weight of that statement sink in'? Without supernovae, all the elements with atomic weights greater than 12 (carbon) would not exist. Or at least in no ac- cumulations that would mat- ter .In other· words, no organic matter, no DNA, no metals, no nothing. Supernova shockwaves are important candidates as triggers for stellar collapse, and subsequent solar system formation, as well. These pheonomeria are extremely important to aU phases of astronomy, cosmology, and any related topics discussing the universe around us. So it is understandable that the astronomical and cosmological communities· were in an uproar on 23 February 1987, when the telegram from Ian Shelton at the Las Campanas Observatory in northern Chile flashed around the world, annoWlcing the discovery of SN1967a (the first supernova of 1987) in the LMC Soon all the telescopes in the southern hemisphere. and instruments in orbit were pointed in its direction, gathering data at a terrific pace. Eight neutrinos out of the incredible flood of 3 * 10 * 16 released when the star's core collapsed were identified as having arrived several hours before the light from the ex:- plosion did, usheriong in a new era of neutrino astronomy. _ Studies wer~ quickly made to determine the progenitor or source star, eventually San- dulak -69 202 was identified. Here the problems started. Sandulak was a Blue -Supergiant, and they weren't supposed to supernova, only Red Supergiants supernova. The people working with an orbiting ultraviolet telescope soon identified two dim com- panions to SN1937a, implying that Sandulak was not the progenitor, since it was still there. Later analysis of pre-supernova images exposed a third star in the Sandulak optical system,. replaciong it as the progenitor. Then the first light curves for the event were produ!!ed, describing how the supernova put out light over time, and they didn't match the light curves for other supernovae. This was soon explained by the blue color of the progenitor s~r, which cpanged the dynamics of the whole ·explosion. More questions have been raised about the nature of .Sandulak•s companions, and the role they played in the event. All of astronomy dealing with supernovae has been affected, and the resulting shockwave may well reach up into cosmology and particle physics, giving us a better un· .derstanding of the creation of our own universe. I wonder who was watching five billion years ago when some anonymous supernova enabled our existence? Profile: Dr. Ralph Alp her By BECKY KOOPMANN The noted physicist Dr. Ralph A. Alpher joined the Union College faculty this year as Distinguished Research Professor of Physics. Dr. Alpher is known for his work on the Big Bang model of the universe and for his prediction of the 3 kelvin cosmic microwave background radiation. The son of Russian im- migrants, Dr .. Alpher was born in Washington, D.C. He ob- tained his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. from George Washington University after attending night classes for ten years. His doctoral thesis described nucleosynthesis in an ex- panding universe. Then -his collaboration with physicists Robert Herman and George Gamow resulted in a series of papers which described the early \Big Bang.\ He. and Herman published a prediction of the cosmic microwave background radiation in 1948 as . a relic of the \Big Bang.\ In 1965 researchers Penzias and Wilson verified this prection which led to a Nobel Prize in 1978. Dr. Alpher worked for eleven years at the Johns Hopkins Applied Physics Lab and. then spent thirty years at. General Electric here in Schenectady. His expertise has been used in various ways, ranging from work on the physics of re-entry vehicles, cosmic radiation and magneto· and elec- trohydrodynamics. He has received numerous prizes and has published seventy-eight papers (some of which have been reprinted). This world renowned physicist resides in Niskayuna with his wife Louise. They have a son, a daughter, and two grandchildren. His hobbies include public television and \catching up on cosmology.\ Incidentally · Dr. Alpher was chairman of the board -of WMHT, Channel 17 for three and a half years. His long term goals include a book with Robert Herman about cosmology and cosmological research. He has had a long association as Trustee with Dudley Observatory which is part of Union University. He is · curr.enly administrator and Distinguished Senior Scientist ·there. +It may be of interest to note that he will be teaching a course in cosmology and relativity in the winter term. This is a great opportunity to learn from such an expert in this field. Area Physics Students Meeting By SHARON CHERN (If .physics. Professor Alpher's taJk closed the morning part of The Society of Physics th:e meeting, unfortunately · Students had. a meetmg last lunch for the physics teachers Saturday, Oct. 17,. at Uni0n. and students-was cancelled due Although the meeting started to power failure, · otJ.t in a chaotic manner due to At 1 :30 p.m., the meeting :was ,p~wer failure at the social resumed and· Mark Ja£frey, a sciences building, it turned out freshman at Union, introduced- to be quite successful. Students: the cloud chamber project .fvom Rensselaer Polytechnic wnich he worked on at his high Institute, Vassar College as well school. Contrary to ex- as from Union, gave pectations, . Zoltan Egyed, a presenatations on their student from Hungary l'esearch projects. A short currently at Union, did not talk question-and-answer session about his rearc.h projects:. He following each talk gave the presented to. the group \The meeting a relaxed and friendly International Association of atmosphere. , Physics Students, conceived by The meeting officially began three students from the Eotvos at 9:30 with Professor Baksay University Budapest in -welcoming the participants and Hungary two years ago. This introducing Jim Poirier, Jim world wide soc;iety for physics gave an interesting ta~ on his undergraduates was officially \'Double sense wire current. established this summer by division drift chamber'~ and representatives from 15 then had to dash off to par· countries in three continents. ticipate in a football game at Allyone inteJ,'ested in joining :RPI. · this association can contact him Next., Louis Schick (Union) for more information. ])resented· his \summer Marcus Crew from Vassar vacation\ at NASA God· C.ollege, who did -research at '<lard Spac~ Center aLGreen· Union this summer, gave his beck, Maryland, where he presentation on the ''High .studied the properties of Pressure gas detector for fractals using Cabosil and other particle physics.'' This particle \office materials.\ detector at Union is unique in Michelle Markus, a senior at · the world in that its operation Rensselaer Polytecbni c requiref:!a very high pressure of' Institute, not only gave her talk 500atm. on \Experimental Study of Even though the meeting did Dyes Bound to ·Protein'' with not start out smoothly, it was, ~ pictorial aids but also per· overall, success.ful. It was both formed a ·''magic show\ educational and interesting at changing the colors of her the same time, without the protein sample. · dullness of the classrooms. One \The Hubble Parameter\ st1;1dent th?ught that hopefully, . was presented by Rebecca thiS . meet!_Dg can . become a Koopmann from Union. She regularly scheduled event for collected data from various Pb.ysics students in the Capital sources on the subject of the district. ' Hubble par::ameter and gave an . . overview of her findings. · · . After the· refreshments were' · B . k . R • · . · served, the group was invited to · . o·o . e VIeW attend Professor Ralph . . Alph~r:s talk on. ''Becom~n~ a By ANNE ZINICO~A Physicist\ -mamly. statistics p~rtaining to physicists, job O{IP~rtunities and the te~ching FRACTALS AND CHAGS Tuesday, Oct 27, 7:00pm Social Science 112 :1 n addition to geometric objects, fractals can be used tc;~ gescrib~ the motion of many systems. With .the aid . of computer graphics, we shall . · .examine the chaotic dynani ics of · one·, two-, and three- dimensions! · .· systems and discuss the underly;ng · · fractals. · · Are you one of those people who contemplate the universe in his spare time? Have your ever gazed at the night sky in awe? If so, you would enjoy reading George Greenstein's Frozen Star. If you are ?n amateur, it is an exc~llent in- troduction to the science of astronomy, and if you consider yourself an \expert\ on the subject, the book ·Offers some interesting insights into fascinating subjects. The major topics disc.ussed in the book are the discovery of pulsars, the debate on black holes, and ''God's play with the universe.\ Through the discovery of pulsars and the development of Subrahma~yan Chandrasekhar's limiting theory, the . reader realizes the necessity for dedication and conviction in science. The ongoing debate over what, exactly, black holes are and if they really exist is also well covered. At several P.Oints in the disclll3sion Greenstein takes the reader on a theoretical journey into a black hole. This is one of the many times he uses analogies and very visual explanationsto give the reader a better feeling for such an abstract concept. Another issue which makes Greenstein's writing so in- teresting is his discussion of the evolution of scientific thought, the scientific method. The importance .. of creativity and intuition in the scientific community is implied in Greenstein's philosophical excerpt on the creation of the universe. The conclusion of Frozen Star definitely leave~ the reader with something to think about. ·,

CONCORIHENSlS, October Z2 3 1987 Page 13 Lawrence Keller & Assoicates SCHOLARSHIPS & lNTERNSNIPS · . in Albany, N.Y. is offering an internship in public relations to a junior or senior. The position · . woUld provide a student with ----------- ·. non-gopher experience, client contact and actual pieces to add College stu.ae11ts can win thousands o·f dollars· in scholarship money by creating a healthful Jieeipe that uses Sweet 'N LoVI and call be prepared witho11t a con- ventional kitcllen. to a portfolio. J!,or more in- formation, get in touch with the . CJ?C. · The \Sweet 'N Low Grade 'A' Recipe Contest'' features a Grand Prize cf $5,000, Fi:rst Prize of $2,000 and Second PriZe of $1,000. · The reciples must be suitable for preparation in a residence.. hall rootn using. only sma!_l appliances such as a toaster oven, blender, wo~, compact microwave or srn.all refrigerator. They will be judged on the basis of he~lth .. fulness, taste, criginality, Ease of preparation and appearance. Entry forms are available by sending a self-addressed stamped envelope by December 15, 1987 to; Sweet 'N Low Entry Form, P.O. llox: 190:1, New York, NY 10116. Entries rnust be postmarked by December ~1, 1987 and received by J ant~ary 10, 1g88. Howa·rd Hughes Medical Institute announces · its. 1988 competition for Doctoral Fellowships in Biological Sciences. Sixty fellowships will- be awarded to outstanding candidates for the promotion ·of research careers · in biological sciences. The fellowships ~re for three years with an option of extension for u:p to two years .• A stipend of $12,30tlwill be offered for 12-month tenures and a $10,700 cost-of-edu-cation allowance will be paid directly to the fellow's institution in lieu of tuition· and fees. Competition is open to U.S. citizens or nationals 'and foreign nationals Application deadline is November 13, 1987. GRE tests must be taken by December 12, 1987 for submis.sion of scores. For more information and a p p li c at i o n s c o n t a et : Fellowship Office, National Research C()uncil, 2101 C()n- stitution Ave., Washington, DC 20418. (202) 334·2872. ' The Ameri'Clall Socie.t)' of Naval Engineers announces its 1988-89 annual competition for scholarship .nwards to en- . courage stude11ts to enter the field of Naval Engineering· and to provide sup.port to Naval Engineers se(lkin~ advanced education in tbe field. Awards up to $1750 eacll will be made to undergraduates for the final one or two years of tmdergraduate education. Support for the fillal one or two years of un- dergraduate education. Support for graduate education leading to a master's 'tiegree is limited to one year. Application deadline is Febuary 15, 1988. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more info[\'[lation. William Smith College has available internship p()sitions With regard to Women's Field Hockey, and 'Lacrosse; A Bachelor's de~ree in physiCal education is preferred, while C()mpetiUve illtercollegiate ~r coaching eltperience ts essential. For more informati()n · contact coc. ·The Washillgton Post is currently S(leking college juniors, seni()rs, and enrolled graduate studEnts interested in newspaper journalism careers. Summer 1988 News positb>ns are available. Application deadline: November 15; 1987. Howard Hughes Medical . Institute is offering Doctoral Fellowships in the· Biological Science.s. Open to college seniors interested in biomedical research. Application deadline: November 13, ·19U7. The Dow Jones Newspaper Fund 1988 Newspaper Editing Intern Program for college juniors and the Minority Editing Intern Program for college seniprs is announcing various scholarship and Intern job opportunities available during· the summer. Students thinking of applying should be seriously considering news work as a career. Application deadline: November 15, 1987. Environmental Planning Lobby located in Albany is looking for students interested in Legislative internships which are available for the spring semester on a fUll-thne basis. Application deadline December 1, 1987. The Assembly Intern Program located .in Albany, N.Y. is currently offering the opportunity to perform public policy research and program development information - for the Assembly. The program is designed to lead students into permanent emploY!llent in N.Y. State Government~ Application deadline: November 1, 1987. GRE Fee Waivers for test dates through September 1988 may be applied for at the Financial Aid Office. The waiver covers the test fees for either the General Test, a ub- ject Test, or both tests. There is only one waiver all?wed ~er eligible student. Fmanca1al need for the waiver must be established by the Financi~l Aid Office. Contact Ellen Frish- berg, Director of Financial Aid at x6123 or Becker Hall, 2nd floor for more information. CLUB NEWS Guest Speaker-Monday, October 26 in Milano Lounge at 7 p;m.. Father E)rwin Sch- weigardt, former Chaplain at Union, 1972-80, and presently pastor at St. Pat:riclt's, Watervliet will speak on \Stresses the College Student Experiences.\ Father will also be happy to shar~ with us some of his reflections on his .eight years at Union. All are welcome. Hallo.weell Visit to St. Clare's--Saturday, October 31 any stud~nt who wishes to vis!t long term patients at St. Clare s Hospital, please meet at the College Cent!;lr at 3 p.m. Transportation will be provided. Wear costumes and bring some happiness to the llves of the sick by your presence and the flowers tbat ·we will deliver. Forfurther details contact Sr. Joan :J70· 6087. Folk Group-All singers and musicians intei'€Sted in being part of the Mu~ic Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil at 6 : 3() p.~. in the church to rehearse. Newman Overnight Retreat- October 23 and 24 from 5 p.m. Friday until 5 p.m. Saturdar at St. Anthony-on·Hudson, Ren· sselaer. Theme: Relation· ships-God, myself, others. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr .. Joan. Tutorial Program-lJJJion College Students can be used in · the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten Aides, Comp11ter Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and Reading on a onE-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson, 386-4364: · The Post-Holocaust Theological Landscape. The · Sinea College Institute for · Jewish-Christian Studies, Re~bbi Dr. Hayyhn Herman Kieval, Director, Sunday, October 21), Roger Bacon Hall.· Any Union student who wishes to attend .. this program at Siena please call Religious Programs Office 370,.6087. Transponation will be provided. Departure from tbe College Center at :J ;p.m. r \\ The Film Committee Presents: Hoosiers 1 0/23' 1 0/24, 10/25 at7,9&11pm Sleeping Beauty 10/27 at 7, 9 & 11 pm tf \\~ 1 fh\l A· L. ,,Jr-, 0\ QC+Pt ~.::...;. Wn(fiiV(; r 5 il HU\ ~ TCt 6E. BVLLDc:;:;.!) I REFcSCilrVt cr.: f\o D€r'll~. hTrl~~E. \'GLi) Dt+yr fvt\N TttE - ST\<; vy 1 rib ~Ml~ 'TillS -~~~Htw ---- 1 VJILL 6~~D~~£ \ ~ILL S'\~DY r\f\\\0 \ WlU. ~ IN feD ~ MiONibHT 1 Wtt.L. usie~ 10 MY P.;JR.eNr.s I Vi\U fiNO ~ JOB . · Ai Mi ~/1Al ~u,s )

'. Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, October 22, 1987 CLASSIFJEDS needed. Call Mr. O'Brien 756· · wonderful. day. Enjoy yourself!: . 3191 or apply in person at 33 · Love, Carrie Main St., ~vena, N.Y. ~~__,...--~----- Quote of the week frDm Jon'£ · mother: \Don't buy a two : seater car-it will hamper y-ou · socially.'' $1() - $660 weekly-up mailing circular. Rush self-addressed stamped envelope. Dept. AN77CC-F A, 9300 Wilshire, Suite 47, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. Apt. Avilable Nov. 1: 1 bedroom flat near campus, unfirnished. No pets. $225 plus security. Call 377-4885. For Sale: '82 VW Rabbit Power Steering. 5 on the floor. Garnet color. Call 372-7327. ·Apt for Rent-On Ave. A- Block lk from,the college. $375- :nlo. Also two boarders on house on Waverly, $200 each-mo., utilities etc. included. Home: 372.3565; Work 458-2729. 1 sofa bed for sale ~ ~ 10. 346-4054. ' For Sale: 84 Sunbird, 5 speed, a-c, sun roof, AM-FM-Stereo, Cruise control, tilt wheel,, must see, $4300, 783-7665. Sharp, clean cut & ambitious. Does this describe you? Our company has a full time opening in our new local office to close telephone roders in Capital District. Earn $1,200 monthly & dependable vehicl Lost Last Thursday on the third floor of the library. I left my mail inside an \Outdoor\. Magazine - it included im- pnrtant financial aid .papers. lf you have or know anything . abcu.t my mail, please call Pam at 386-4365. Attention Homecoming Ph()tographers-A male student took pictuTes of a dog I had with me just prior to the Homecoming Parade, on Saturday, Oct.ber 10. Boots had to be put to sleep on October 17 and so I woUld love copies of your pictures. Please contact Sister Joan 371).6087 or stop in my office 404B in the Conege Center. PERSONALS Happy birthday Kim ~ No telegram this year, but I'~ still thinking about you. From China, Anne Hi EJL I I am so glad that you al.\e hel\e to celebl\ate OUI.\ fifth together. I love you very much! Dear Tammy, Happy 21st birthday! Hope you have a 1HI5 15 /Tl ... ~ WAI.J(Of/rl NO ()fftN~ \' 50 f/{(€ 7ff6 Ct.IIM!J IT'& nMe, OPtJ5. I Mft.O, 71{f. WOW \WIIt.KOVT\ MAKeS Me ITCH. W£'f<lt liT \F15HtKMIIN'ti Be{NfJ Wflllf?f.\ I Ntr£1? TR6f/TefJ COMfTfiNCY IN MY P!$Re5P!CT- /..If~, Mf/.0/ AN/1 I f(JU. Y ... Ilt1 50Rf?'t /3f/T I t.AEJO{( :JTf<IF! llt.Wf/YS )1 &Ne5 Me \ 11 Rfi~H. / , dear Oeuf--l'm not sure how-to : say egg_ in Ghin_ese•-'ifs • definitely not the ,same witllout my other half. Keep smiling - Homme Tomar, the .perfect ugly palm · tree:. Happy 21 on Sat.! But don~t go get ccnjugated without me ... 88Sharone- . P .S. I know what K. got U .... Union Equestrian Team- Do it up at St. Lawr! Let's . bring home some blue S.P.V.P. A.S.K. These last few mollths have been the most ex:citillg, special, and surprising .ever! ! ! But - what about rny I.D.? Happy 21st Birthday. Lots of Love, E.L. We wanted to say when you turn 19, just what we think .so it;s plainly seen, to a girl wllo'·s both pretty and sweet, and all around just kind of neat. Wbat we're trying to say without being sentimental is Happy Birthday Lisa. Love, StudCentral 7HI5 Gf6 15 II CW51JfJ 5HOP / IF Jill W!WNfl WOr<K I YOV:ft\ (/flffJN / . NOW tJ6/ (}{ff 7lJ 1/flt PICKitT t.INB.JIN/l110tr'T FOKfJeT 1lJ PAY 111/liff rtJK - OCTO!%~/ J DEMTliiALVM.:_ Great dinner, but too much cranberry bread-- Thia Wendy, Get a thesis topic·<already! Wait is thesis. a must for graduation? ! ? Wend- Just give me an endless bank account, a nice apartment, a \Beamer\ and maybe a job. -The Warrior Mark,.. 5·7, next. time I'm going to kick your .... To 1049, Goodbye \Chilly\- Go~dbye! C. Scam Master, - Where is Newton, MA, :anyhow'? Spelling Bee Champ: ; Spelling Bee Champ, Is Middletown, CT still on the map? Scam Master 'A.S.K. Congratulations on your first medical school acceptance. Remember-the sooner you go- the sooner we'Ube on the bea.eh in Eilat once again! I love you ... . E.E.L. Attention: Friday night , is Geek Night at the Skellar; Call .Jl? for reservations. -<..- ' Big ,Lar heads the Boser Rebellion. Rich - Do you still have time to change your major? Dingy .. Nice ·life, come by & visit sometime,. you know where I live. The Pizza Man Room 211: DEMONIC RAISINS I REBUKE YOU! Court - Maybe next week I'll take your picture, lucky your. Hope you covered the wbOLe page. J en .nice answering machine, if we keep trying maybe one day we'll get it right. Q-Don'~ forget,always smile; itjs almost over. Yoursecret admirer . P .s. Thanks for the pencil, & it is long enough. Ezzy-Heard your dog has fleas! \Voulez-vous couchez over moi? Our ... c'est moi. Missing you in a big way, Mike, think it's time you took a bath.\ \No message for you unless I see some mail, Jeff-who? Matteo, Have a Happy Birtn· clay. GARY TLMO-What a gre~t weekend'! (esp. Sat. nite!) Let's do it again, soon !I ! You're the best! Love! ! Marnie Rizzo- 4 plus 6 equals 10, not 7. Will you. still be with us this winter? xoxo Sam Donaldson- Once victim turned per- petrator. Verdict: Guilty as charged. Dear Gary, Happy birthday, I hope it's a ,good one. I'll see you soon! Love, Julie It's not ·'would you do it in public,\ but ... \have you?\ Gary, - . Happy Birtl'!day! It was supposed to be a l!!utprise. Luv, Julie When are they going to fix tpe clock on the Chapel? QUOTE OF THE WEEK: ''You work for nothing, you ' gEt nothing.\ L.R.- Nanook of the North: Was- that you sneaking down the third floor fire escape SWldaY Mol'nirlg? · \You've got. the look;\ but whose number is on our refrigerator? To the Women: Here we go again on our oWJI! Kath, Scam Master and Spelling Bee Champ We should take a picture of this! The Women Missa - Watch these moving doorways.- bang your head! '111~ Love, B, G, M, A K • z S: w c:: w 0 z :c 0 \\) ~ 12 0 :c c. p w n K tc rr k: pi p PI ol el Oi A tl fi . Jl J w pl pl :R 81 pl w t~ t~ K e~ Tl to rt fo B~

J :1 ·, i CONCORDIENSIS,, October 22, 19117 Page 15 --~ --...o.---.:... Athlete of the Week By CH:RISHlNCKLEV The recent su~cess of the Wornens Varsity Field Hockey team has in turn highlighted the performance of some of its players. All the players on the team have done quite well but performances of such players. Jennifer Lyon as sophomore goalie .J en· ~ nifer Lyon, have puUed the ~ team through some tough 0 games and put them where they !J are now. ~~t year Jennifer :c played J. V. field hockey but so a.. far this year she has been starting on the Varsity level and oJ)viously is doing ·quite well for hersell and the team. shutouts versus a tou.gh Vassar team. The score of that one was a close 1-'0 score; ()bvi.ollSly Jen'S goaltending was the decidin:g · factor. Aftet\ a 4-0 Earlier in the season Jennifer remrded her .first of two .setback to Williams College the Lady :Dutchmen bounced back with a 2-0 defeat of crosstown rivals RPI. Lyon was again in the ·net for the team and recorded her fourth win and second.shutout. Jen's record on the year so far is 4-2. She has 49 saves and is still racking points up in that column as the year goes on. Jen4s a sophomore and hails from Glenns Falls, N.Y. where she played field hockey for Queensbury High School and received the honor of the area's second team all-star. Congratulations again to Jen on a fine season to date and good luck to qer and the team during the rest of their record breaking season. Rugger 8' s GO Undefeated z s: w c;: w 0 z q ~ 12 ~ c.. By JOHN GOBRAN and JOHN BAKER S·unday, a phenomen of nature was brought t-o life by the Union Killer B men's rugby team. A bee swarm occlll'S whell a hive grows· too large and the weaker bees are forced out of the hive. Well, swarm the KiLler B's did in their deeimation of the .Adbany State B squad 12-0. The Killer B line led by senior feat sbould not be tak:en lightly because the team was rnade up pr~1a1·ily of rookies who played agamst veteran players w~ek in and week out. Their s11ccess is due to two primary are~, the teachings of captains J ody Perkin~ and Josh Derecllixll anq thedesrre.ofthe B players. Tom Muzzinigro, a vetera11 of seven Union seasons and one on the French. national team~ had this to say of the B's actions \I attribute the· Killer B's ~ un- A sure handed Albany Ruggerfights for the ball. Pat DiCerbo displayed t.eam- woik not usually seen until the men's leave. In particular, Nis Kumar and Faiz-Kahn seemed to think as one during the entire match. DiCerbo handled the kicking chores for the · B's pi<:king up two conversions but, Pat played a mu.ch more im· portant role as the coordinator of t11e offensive and defeosive eff<»rts of the line. The line's outstanding defense kept Albany from putting points on the board but, according to freshman scrumhalf Jamie · Jan<1witz, \The key to the game was tbe pursuit by the serum.\ The serum literally took no pLisoners; crunching hits by players such as Dave Austin, .Rob'er Krause, Vinnie Dotolli, and Matt Taylor put one Sate . player out of the game and wrecked the self-confidence of the ~ntire Albany squad. It was the pursuit and heads-up play of Kra11se and Taylor that allowed each of them to score a. try. These two freshmen, who prior to this fall had never played rugby, earned the MVP award for :SundaY's victory. 'The victory ·gave the Killer B's an undefeated season .. This defeated. record due solely to their elan and fervor they exhibit during the rnatclles. They. exterpate the opp()siJlg B squads by implementing the dexterity of each individual player while achieving an emphemet\al group psyeltosis on the playing terrain.'' The intensity displayed by th.e entire B squad both at pra(!tice and during matches gives tile Union mgby program much to look forward to in the seas():r\S to come. It's been the best of seas<»ns, it's beeJt the worst of seas()nS. This aptly describes the play of the UnionJ:\uggers for tiie fall '87 year. The Huns have been a team wh:o have at times Sb()wn intensity and talent un- surpassed in N.Y. upstate rugby, but have also shown letdowns iii the same intensity and talent which have. allowed .opposing tearr.aS to scot\e at the worst possible times. Tllis Sunday was no exception as Union. lost their fourtb game in as many outings at Albany State, g,s, In the first half Union :came out of the blocks stroJJgly 1 as they usually do but fail eel to get tlie points which their play had earned. The strong play of the serum and hard running of the backs kept the ball on Albany's side of the field.~ for ahnost the entire first half. Union did get on the board first when Chris Sheridan booted a forty meter · kick through the uprights at apout the 20 Iirlnute · mark. Union knocked hard shortly after that when sophomore wing Steve Neiditz pop-kicked the ball at about midfield. Junior second-row Dave Morrison scoopea · th.e loose ball up and · after some fancy running dished the ball off to a speedy Sheridan who ran it 20 meters for what looked like the first try of the game. But the play was ruled 'no good' by the referee who said that Sheridan dropped, rather than placed the ball in the try zone. An unquestionably bogus call! Union almost scored late in the half but came up short again when Senior back Tom Muz- :zinegro barely missed a dropkick from 15 meters out. The half ended with Union ahead 3.(). The score however did not reflect Union's total domination over their Alb~ny counterparts. , The second half opened up with Albany scoring a try early when Union had a .knock on close to their own try zone. Albany gained possession and ran it for four points. The conversion was good and Albany went ahead 6~3. Union quickly tied it up when Sheridan made good on a 25 meter penalty kick. The score stayed tied at 6-6 for the next twenty five minutes as the play went 'back and forth with both teams coming close to scoring, but neither being able to punch it home for points. With about 10 minutes left in the game, Albany surprised the Huns with a 20 meter drop kick. A disgruntled Union team wat- ched the score go from 6-6 to 6~9 with only 10 minutes left. Union gQt their act together for one final bid when MorriS'On shoveled a pass to rookie Johri Gobron who ran strong for 40 meters but was tripped up close to the Albany try line. Union couldn't score and Albany won 9-6. . This was a very heartfelt loss for the Huns who desperately wanted to break their losin!! streak. Next Saturday Union travels. to Ithaca for their final game of the season. There will be a mandatory meeting for all ruggers in the Rugby ~oom today at 4 o'clock. <!rnnt11r.bitnsis SPORTS This past Monday the stock . market dropped by a greater percentage than it had .at any other time in history; the United States Armed Forces shelled two off-sllore Iranian oil platforms in the Persian Gulf.; and the final NFL Scab game was played. Not wishing to be outdone by such trivialities George Steinbre11ner fired his fourteenth manager in as many years. Mter two full seasons of managing the 'Yankees, Lou Piniella was moved to the front office as the Ge!leral Manager. Piniella is uiJdoubtedly not shocked by this change in position. However, he can take comfort in knowfng that he and his replacement are the only managers to survive two complete, consec11tive seasons under George. The big question is \what possesses Billy Martin to come back for the fifth time?\ Each time Martin returns, he brin,gs . a bit of a spar'k with him.. Yet as the season progresses this spark · fizzles out. I can understand his getting bored at lleing one of the Yankee announcers, but becoming the manager is not exactly the good life. On the other side of the coin, why does George keep asking him back? Martin has only been maiJager of a World Champion Yankee team once. The problem with the Yankees lies more with the players than witll the manager. Paul Rieschick, Director of Alumni Mfairs and sports ·enthusiast made some in- teresting trade predicitons earlier in the season which now look to be quite insightful. He feels that the Y11nkees will be tidying up their- roster this winter by replacing Trout, Arnsberg, Meacham, Clements, Lombardi and Pasqua. Previously, Rickey Henderson Not In the Box Score by Mark Zimmerma~ was a strong candidate for a trade. However, Henderson is one of the few players on the Yankees who gets along with Martin. This is unfortunate. I. trade · for Henderson could pr()duce some top quality players. Looking at this change from another persepctive, Billy Martin may be just what the Yankees need. Martin will be sure to get some top quality pitching and will not let Steinbrenner turn down op- portunities on players such as Jack Morris. Martin will un-. doubtedly trade and buy a great deal of players during the up- coming off season. He knows that when you work for a man like George Steinbrenner you cannot take time building up your minor league system, you have to win. the division and World Series right away or you're gone. Although it is a bit early to make a prediciton, the yankees need a lot more than Billy martin to win the division. They need pitching, catching, a shortstop, and some depth on the bench. The Yankees need a guy like the mets have in Lee Nazzilli: a goo.d player who Js not upset at sitting on the bench until he is called upon. If indeed the Yankees do all of these things and more, they still have to worry about Toronto and Detroit. Both of those teams are going to be polishing up in the off-season as well. As for Billy Martin, you have to give him some credit for just taking the job. Tht:)re are many reasons not to take the job of Yankee manager. Don Baylor may have given the best one when he was asked by Sports mustrated if he would have taken the job had it been offered to him. He replied, ''I came into this game sane, and I want to leave it sane.\ Crew Sets Precedent at Head of the Charles This past Saturday as spe~tators were only just begmning to roll ()Ut of bed, the Uni~n College lleavy weight men s four made its way up the course of the 23rd annual Head- of-the-Charles regatta. This year, as in past y.ears,. Union's small rowing club was granted only one entry into this prestigious and highly com- petative regatta. !'he three mile race is typical of fall races with the crews starting five to ten seconds apart and racing against the clock. Union's four was unoptimistica]y seeded 28 among the 38 entrants in their event. Despite this, the Union boat, rowed by J~hn LOvosolo, Chris Wright, Matt Hopkins Steve Listwan ~nd May Cheung was able to finish lOth. This is even more impressive in light of the fact that their poor seeding required them to pass slower crews who started ahead of them, two of whom collided\ with the Union boat. This year's performance sets a precedent for Union. HaviiJg placed within the top twelve of an event, Union is now guaranteed entry into that event next year. With luck, Union will secure its traditional single entry through the lottery itJ. addition to the one we just earned, thus doubling our presence at the Charles. The team would like to thank all those who cheered us on in Boston and hopes that you will he there next year because we will!!! Cross-Country . • • Continued ·from page \16 Martocci crossed the line in 17:06, with Martinez right behind him in 17.:13. The Dutclunen \J\'ill try to get back on track this weekend at tbe Albany State invitational on Sattlrday. The women's team will also be competing in this event which will draw a large. eompetitive field from around the state. -

S2 en ~ ~ :::c 0 (!J w a: (!J rii 0 ~ c.. Gridders Lose Dutchmen Shoes • 0 • On Engdahl goal Men's Soccer Outlasts Engineers By CARLR. FRIEDRICH JR. Many fEJ!lowers <if the men's soccer tee~rn have complained of motioil sickness recently. Mter soa:rlng to a 3-0-1 start, the 19S'l squad has been in- consistant-one gaJD.e good, the next bad. However, with per- formanc~s sucll as last Saturday's victory overRPI, the Dutc.bmen show signs of hope for tile second half of the season. In the first four games, Union outscorecl its opponents by the combinecl total of l '7 to 4. The third victllry of the season came against highly touted Binghamton, whicl1 gave the Dutclune11 a n:umber five ranking 11aticnally. Then came a crash wlich saw tile team lose three of fe>ur matches, while scoring a mere three goals and being shout-cut twice in the process. Morale sank, and individual slwnps pulled the team ·apart. Union soccer was in dire neEd of a win. That w:in came when a ner- vous and tense squad traveled to RPI in search <>f the winning groove tlley had l(lst. Although they sccr-..ed only one goal, they played a tnDre complete game than tb~y had in over two weeks. 'r.11ey worked together, ran hard, and concentrated on their game. They dominated an Engineers' team that was not on the same level. Union's ef- forts were paid off in the first half when junior Rich Engdahl scored off a corner kick from freshman Brett \killer\ Miller. Engdahl's fifth winner of the season gave the team the boost of confidence they badly needed. In the second half, Union continued tht> confident style of play, and threatened to score on several \PJ.>Ortunities. Towards the end of the match, RPI staged sevEral dangerous at- tacks, but the defense, led by captain Dan Pittenger and goalkeeper John LaDuke, preserved tbe one-nil victory. The win was a big one for the Dutchmen. The second half of the .schedule is a difficult one, and big wins will have to come frequently if the team wishes to continue the success it enjoyed in the past . .Although the team's record stands at an average-for Union, 5-3-1 (going into Wed- nesday's RIT game), the season is by no means over. Senior Dave Cope sums- it up by saying, \You never give up. · Even whe11 it seems helpless. Never give 11p.\ October 22, 1987 . . ,. Surprising loss to R.P.I . Gunning for Union By ANDREW MILLER On paper the game looked like a· pushover. The RPI Engineers were 1-4, and had just come off the most em- barrasing loss in their program's history. The Engineers, the week before the Union game, were defeated by Iona College. For Iona, the victory snapped their 16 game losing streak:, one of the longest in the nation. The Dutchmen came into the 80th meeting of the two teams riding the crest of a three g;ame win streak, the latest an llllpressive blowout of a tough WPI squad. Everything was in place for Union to capture their seventh straight \Dutchmen Shoes Trophy,\ and crash another RPI Homecoming weekend. So what went wrong? \We couldn't have played worse if we wanted to,'' said a dejected coach AI-Bagnoli after the final gun had sounded and he found himself on the short end of a frll5trating 29-17 loss. The Dutchmen had simply fallen apart. After roaring gut to an early 17-13 third quarter lead Union found the game pulled out frcm under their feet. A two-yard Darrel Shepherd run, set up by a 27 yard Jim Poirier to Bill Conklin striKe, and a 21-yard Poirier to Jim LaFrance cross-pattern bullet put the Dutchmen up ·to 17-7. Union was rolling, the gridders had scored 14 unanswered points and the game appeared to be.headed for a rout. Then the rooffell in. The tide began to turn on an RPI trick play. A faked field goal on the Union 23\ yard line resulted in a 21 yard toss to the Dutchmen 2. From there the Engineers pushed the ball across the ,goal line on the shoulders of their man of the day, Scott Miles (3 td's.). The ·Dutchmen were up 17-14 and , no one in the house was ex• pecting a fold, not even RPI. But that was just what hap- pened, the Onion offense W()Dt nowhere fast. A fourth d()wn sack on their own goal Line forced Dutchmen punter Steve Marquart to kickdeep in his ()Wll endzone. RPI took over on the Union 36. Five rushing plays later Miles burst in from the 11 to put the Engineers up 20-17. Turnovers were the final nail in the coffin for the Dutchmen, as Poirier was picked off five c (ij >. ~ 0 ~ 0.. season, Union seemed t() be moving the ball at wil'l. The only problem was that the wall was willed the other way by Engineer cornerbacl>s as Dutchmen drives were gr-ound to a halt by a receptive RPI secondary. The game was capped off, and exemplified, by Engineer linebacker Mark Clark'.s 68 yard interception touchdown run back ·with 73 seconds left in the game. The touchdown rounded out the scoring at 27-17, and sparked a celebration in the streets of - Troy. If you are ever going to Head Coach AI Bag noli expresses frustration. times, four snUffed Ullion drives at ·the close of the ballgame. The first interception ws converted for RPI into a 27 .... yard field goal to push the _Engineers up by six. The game was still in reach for the Dut- chmen, Although being (JUt- scored by opponents 25-13 in the fourth quarter thus far 1his talk about a bad team gEaring up and giving everything they've got for one game you would hnve to mention this one. RPI's Homecoming '87 victory of the Dutchmen was best sununed up by Union's out- standing defensive end Rich Romer: \They just simply wanted it more. ' 1 Men's Cross-Country Drops Meet to RPI It is beginning to look like a rebullding year for the Union men's cross.country team. Last Friday, the Dutchmen dropped their second dual meet in as many trie$, this time to crosstown rival RPI. Rwming on their home course at the Saratoga State Pa-rk, the Engineers were able to Ulke 7 out of the top 10 places to score a convincing 22-37 victory. 1\PI's Jim Hackett W()n the 5 mile !.\'ace in 26:40. Union's top finisller was senior Steve S2ydlik, who was second overall with a tine of 27:15. Senior Jim LeBrou was next across the line for the Dutchmen, finishing fifth in 27:41. Another two places back was Dave Defilippo, wllo covered the course in 211:16. Roundh1g out Union's top five. were freshman Dave Steen, 12th in 29:03, and sophomore Jim Campoli, 15th in 29 :5tl. Prior to the Varsity race on Frlday, a 5 kilometer Junior Varsity race was held. AJ:though RPI won this event as well, 25- 30, Union•s freshmen continued to show promise for the future. Doug Martocci and Mike Martinez, both rookies on the team, finished 1·2 in the race. Co.ntltn.ied on page 15

1877 CXVII, .No. 6 October :2~, 1987 Morris Seeks Financ~s to Suspended Student's . . ·Condom Dispen:sers Installed On ' Renovate. Nott Appeal D-enied Trial Basis President Morris ..... .., .. ByTRACEYPRYLUCK President Morris stated that preserving the Nott Memorial is a \clear objective\ at Union, and the College's goal is to see the Nott restored by its bicentennial, 1995. He is presently looking at ways this might be approached. Possible uses for the Nott after restoration are under study. As the president ex- plained, \We have to take .the needs for a theatre into ac .. count; that will have to be a part of the consideration.\ As an \important and central building for the college,\ President Morris further stated that preservation must be taken seriously. Financing is a significant issue in preservation and in the final determination of the Nott's use. Six million dollars are needed to restore the Nott. It would cost another four million dollars to create a new · theatre for the Mountebanks, bringing the total cost to ten million dollars. President' Morris would be happy to have .every suggestion on the best use of the Nott once restored. The general needs of the campus as well as peoples' own views, will determine the Nott's use. \The Nott's history in terms of use is unclear,\ President Morris explained. Its fature use will be decided once it is determined which of the In this Issue Union's Traffic Court- p. 6 .Jews in Morocco - p. 8 Expose on Lillian Gish pg. 19 Frisbee Team Goes to Geneva \' pge 23 campus' needs can best I:Je served by the Nott, recognizing its symbolic focus as a central focal point on campus. President Morris is concerned that the restoration is ;'becoming an emotio11al issue.\ He cautioned that this \will not resolve the problem of the Nott.\ While Presid~nt Morris shares the interest ancl concern of many of Unio!l 1 S facu1ty memebers and mucll · of the student body, lle . cautioned that the Nott preservation · must he ap,- proached · calmly and rationally. · \Seven or eight years ago we didn't ha:ve the luxury to deal with the Nott,\ stated Presidellt Morris, \now we do.'' He is Tbe restoration is .becoming an emotional issu:e. • . • tb.is \will n()t resolve the problem or •. the Nott.\ currently trying to find the resources for preservation ancl to ascertain all the financial options. The Nott's designati()ll as a national historic landmark will not provide much in t:he way of funding, although Vresident Morris is in- vestigating some sources in which this designation may lle of some help. · Continued on page 3 ByFIONASHUKRI One ·of the two upperclass stadents suspended for assaulting a freslnnan requested · -from President Morris the right to have his case heard again by Assistant Dean ()f Students Fred Alford. The student apparently felt tbat tile decision of \Indefinite Suspension'' would be significantly altered if the charges against him were reviewed independently, free of association with the other student's actions. Mter reading a report of the incident, and reviewing the case with Dean of Students Jcseph Mammola, President Morris consented. Dean Alford. heard ~he student'::; case independently and sub- mitted his reconnnendation to Dean Mami:nola.. The original decision -of \Indefinite S1,15pension\ was upheld. · \Indefinite Suspension\ leaves the two students free to petition for re\enrollrnent at any time. When a student petitions, Dean Mammola may either grant the student's petition or refuse it, postponing tbe student's right to return. Neither student is allowed on campus grounds until . his petition has been granted. Petitions will be considered and decide~ Upon independently. By KRIS BURNHAM In a day and age when .sexually transmitted diseases are a common topic of con- , \7ersation, and the threat of AIDS is a haunting reality, Onion College has taken the step' of providing condom · · dispencing machines in the residence halls. At this point, there are only two machines tbat have been installed on a tJ'ial basis. It is tlle hope of the administration that these rnachines will be utilized, which y;vould lead to installations tJlroughout the campus. One. of the two machines is Located on the third floor Davidson South, in the men's b11throom, and the other is in the women's restroom on the third floor Fox South. The cost of the comdons is 50 cents each. When asked about the timing of · the decision, Dean of Residence Life David Wood commented, ' 'We came to the decision (last spring) but only recently was the distributor able to install the · machines.\ Students who live · on the floors in question have expressed concern over why their ·floors where chosen. Sample floors · were chosen randomly in order to · determine the extent of the · dispensers' use. AIDS testing at Skidmore, finding some flositive results, Security I mplemehts Changes In Escort System By VffiGINIE MELlO Due to concerns about the escort system on campus, security is making some chang~s. Previously, all escort requests went through a dispatcher who then notified the Student Escort Service or an officer. This led to many frustrations. With all the traffic the dispatchers have to deal 'with, they usually don't To alleviate these problems, · Security has installed a . separate telephone for a student · operat()r to receive calls. The operat()r will be on duty 8 pm to 1. am Sunday thru Thursday, .· and fmm 8prn to 2 am Friday : and Saturday. The new phone : number is 37o-6386. Stadents · will. feel less intimidated talking · to one of their peers than : someo11e in a hurry to answer another can. At all other times tile dispatcher will answer calls Because the security,..· ·. offices are busy wltb. at the 6911 number. Even if a student calls 6386, and the student operator isn't on duty, various emergencies, escort calls are put vn low priority. the call will automatically go · , through to the dispatcher after- , · three rings. The target date tO< -~ put this phone into operatian is. today, Thursday, October29. . Because limited resources. · make for a long wait, Sectni.tr would like tc organize a foot patrol, and is looking for people to work shifts. People, however~ prefer a mobile escort to one OB: foot, but the idea is wortll tt-ying. . :Forum sent a letter to Security ()ffering to work with them for ~nswers to the problems en· c:!ountered with the system. :Hopefully, an interest in using the system will spread throughout the campus, and many frightening incidents will J:Je avoided. MEMORIZE 'THESE TWO NUMBERS: 6911 .AND 6386. You'll never know -when you'll need them! brings home the p<Jillt that AIDS .is a very real prot>Iem tor everyone, eve11 college students. When aslced about the reasons for the decision Dean Wood replied, \As more becomes known !lbo11t AIDS, the more institatio11s have to be responsive.\ This point is well taken when one collsiders that various estimates put the number of those to be afflicted with the AIDS virllS in the next two years somewhEre between one to two million. The administration thus \hope(s) that tb.e machines will be utilized, not van<lalized. And, i1 they . are utilized, their presence will be expanded.\ The response by s1lldents has been so far; mix:ed~ A.side from possibly puttill~ change machines in the dor:ms for use in the laundry r()om, for the soda macmnes and for the condom machines, there seem to be .few, if.any objections. O!ie freshman female who lives on tile floof in · Fox said that, \After the curiosity wears ()ff it will probaly work. But, now people are buying theJD out of curiosity.\ A male \?iho lives in Davidson said, \I tlli.nk it will be a good thing If tlley are in all the bathrooms. Ma:vbe then it won't be as much ()fa novelty.'' Dean Wood said, \I hope that the mac bill es will be utilized, not v~ndalized. And, if the:y are utilized, their presen<:e will be expanded.\ Although condoms have been available at the Healt11 Services for a while, puttin~ them into the dorm does bi\i11g them into students lives. It is a conunent on the times when there is such .an awareness ()f social problems that even~llch a taboo can be maturely hllndled. It is hoped that everyllne·can look at the new machines aJJdthat they will be used correctly and in an adult manner. welcome calls from students r{!questing escorts which will tie up the two security vehieles on duty. In addition, because the security officers are busy with various emergencies, escort calls are put on low priority.- Anothe1· reason for the long wait is the occurance of prank calls. These calls take attention away from situations in which students really do need Security. After a number of instance~; of harassment, the students , . )lave abo shown an interest i11 improving .and promoting the escort service. The Student Photo of the week - HAPPY HALLOWEEN

Page 2 Rhodes Scholars ·Offers Attractive ·opportunities ay ELISE FOODY A Rh()des .Scholarship may be the m<lst prestigious honor bestoe-wed upon any student as well as .the academic institution which he or she attends. Rhodes Scholars are considered some of the brightest and most am- bitious college-age students in the world Wh() have been given the op(JOrtunity to study at the University of Oxford for two or three yearsand obtain a degree. All edllcati!)nal costs are paid on the .Scholar's behalf by the Rhodes tnstees, and the Scholar is also granted an allowance. to meet any ad- ditional ccsts incurred throughout the term. The Rhodes Sch9larships were first given in 1903 in ac- cordanee with the will of Cecil J. Rhodes, a British statesman who died the previous year. Rhodes desired to bring qualified students throughout the world to study at Oxford University, where he obtained his degree in 1881, and also hOped to aid in the promotion of international understanding and pEace. The benefits of obtaining the honor are numerous~ and certainly fullfilling • • • but (they) must be left by those outside the scholarly community. The United States is allotted 32 positions at the University · and thus proVides the largest of the n~tional delegations~ Any student with a college degree who is between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four is eligible for application. However, due to the thousands of top-notch students who apply for the honor each year, com- petiti()n is extremely intense. The Committees of Seleetion desire candidates with an e}I .. , cellent academic record who have also excelled in team athletics and have proven to be strong leaders. There has been one Rhodes Scholar in the history of Union College, Gregg Meyers, a student enrolled in the six-year medkal program, whO grad1.1ated in 1984. However, Union boasts several professors who !lave b.eld the honor, in- cluding Professor Joseph Board of the Political Science departme11t. Board aids Union stude!ltS interested .in applying Final)ce Con1mittee's Sh.ortage of Funds -May Jeopardize CaiDpus Clubs ByN~<JK PICCffiiLLO With increasinll formation of new student club~ and on-going demands from existing clubs. the Finance Committee finds itself in a recently un- precedented squeeze for money. · Each year stu<lents pay about $125 .fot· student activities, which allows the Finance Conunittee a budget of $289 1 000 (1987-88). Any &urplus carries- over intothene:xtyear's budget. Last year's carryover to this . year totaled $~1,..il00. The lUipleasailt position the raisers. \We need to encourage : independent fund raising within •. a club to lessen the overall . burden on the Finance Com- • mittee,'' said Jsan Matus, Vice- president of Finance for Student Forum. \We now match money t:aised, dollar for dollar. Although this reaches into our · pockets, it .puts more money · into theirs, which mea11s a greater reliance on their own . funds in case of need.'' , However, the ac.tual degree cf . seriousness in this problem may · become clearer only when the : next proposal heads for Dean Mammola's office. '\l'he Finance Committee may be forced to notify the ad- ministration that Crew will no longer be subsidi~ed by us,\ said Matus. \Crew has . an .11 annual budget of $17,000 but the ~ real risk is, for example if they ~ suddenly needed a new boat. 5! · This is a costly item, and would require a large percentage from § our already limited general fun:ds.\ ~ 0 For the time being, it lo()ks g like more self-reliance .and a: tighter budgets for indi,vidual clubs on campus. If new clubs are to be formed, financial obstacles will need to be · Jean Matus. \'ice President of Finance for Student Forum Finance Conmnittee finds itseU in is because tilE 1987-88 budget fWldS were already allocated to the vari()llS clubs on campus by September, despite an actual cut in clubs' lludgets. What now remains at their disposal is a mere $21,000 fr()m last year. Realizing that requests. for overcome. \We are often ac- \We need to encourage . independent fund raising within a club to lessen the overall burden of. the Finance Committee.\ emergency mo:ney or for fun- cused of discouraging for- .· ding of new eildeavors between · ·mation o~ ,new.· dubs~'' said now and June rnay exceed this Matus. \We do not want to·be amount, the Finance Com- looked at that way. We have. mittee is forced to act withont what is given to us, and we do hurting st11dent activities i.rl our best to spread that out general. One IJroposal already accordingly throughout cam- acted upon is match~g fund pus.\ ESCORT SERVICE 370~6386 STUDENT ESCORT SERVICE The seiVice is intendedto enhan~e the safety and security of students. Service will be provided for all on-campus requests and for reasonably close (1-2 biClck radius) off-campus requests. It is a1.1ailable between 8 p.m. and 1 a.m. (S-Th) and 8 p:m. · 2 a.m. (F-Sat.) A neW' exchange nutnber 370-6386 has been added e:xclusively for the escort service. This exchange will be staffed entirely by students. They, in turn will dispaicl1 student drivers for the escort service. Calls made on the 370-6386 extension should result In reasonably prompt service. During busy hous and inclement weather, studetns should e:xpact some delay. Stude11ts may request service otJtside the regularly-scheduled hours. These calls Bomb Scare Threatens Fox House By DEBRA B. HONIG A bomb scare resultel;i in the evact.ation of the entire Fox dorm this past Saturday night, accol\ding to Head ·Qf Security Cliff&rd Wood. At the time of the call, Phi Sigma Kappa was hosting .its WorldWar lli party. The caller, identified as a male, off~ campus, dialed directly to Security. and said, \l planted a bomb in Phi Sigma Kappa. They want World War In. I will give them World War III.\ According to Wood, Security alerted the fraternity about the problem, and then notified .the Schenectady Police D~part .. ment. Tbe police and fire departments responded quickly to the situatioll~ though nothing turned up. Wood said tbat he bas wit- nessedseveral·similar incidents in the past 14 years' he bas been here, althougllthis was the first scare in the past six years. He recalled a rash of bomb scares back in 1977, which consisted .of five incidents in five conM secutive days in Fox House and Achilles &ink. At that time, many other !()cal colleges were expniencing the same . problem. Emergency telephone • N9rth UNION COLLEGE EMERGENCY TELEPHONES The College installed an extensive \emergency_ phone hotline\ network throughout the--campus. There ' are nine outdoor emergency phones housed in RED telephone· boxes in these ~locations: . . · · · · · , · · · · ·. •.· 27 North Terrace Lane Souteast Comer of Arts Building East side Achilles ri:n]( near Whipple Bridge East side Bailey Hall Comer South Terrace Land and South Lane Northeast comer of Davidson House Southwest comer ofHunmanities Building Northeast comer of Social Sciences Building South side of 17 So11th Lane There are also WHITE interior hotline and courtesy phones lq.c:ated strategically throughout buildings. These phones were in:;talled to provide security access for any person needing. emergency help, 24 hours a day. Upon lifting the handset of.the hotline telephones. the security office is immediately notified of the location of that phone, and will dispatch an officer to the location of that phone to assist the person(s) needing urgent help. It :is strongly urged that the college community respect the purpose for which these phones are .provided, and only use them in accordance witb the instructions p<>sted next to each phone. , Any malfunctioning phone or suspected misuse or tampering of .an emergency :phone should be reported to the Cotlege will be handled by the Security Department on an £;;;~~~~;;;;~~;;~====~==~'==========~LJ!:T:cl:oc:o:m:m:=uru:':ca:tt:\o:ns=:o:rS:e:c:un:·~cy~O~··~ffl~E~e.~~~~~~~~:f' \as a' '''lble\ basis. State Legisla.~ive Internships for Winter~Spring The Political Science Department will offer ·a limited number of internships for credit in the New York State Legislature during the Winter and Spring terms, The program is normally operated as p~ir of P.S. courses. (PS 76-78, \Legislative Observers\)~ but this year can only be offered in the form of . P.S. independent studies supervised by prof. Charles Tidmarch. Potential applicants should be aware that they, will be expected to devote approximately 12 hours per week to their internships,· . and are obliged to complete both terms (No \drop-outs\ after ·Wiater term). No freshmen are eligible, and :vreference will be· • given to political Science m~jors. . . Applications and further information are available in the Pol.· Sci. Dept office (SS216}. Applications will be due on Friday, Nov. 6, and acceptances will be posted on Monday, Nov. 9. • ' ' • ·- < ... • •• , ••

\ ! i ' ' ' Page 2 Rhodes Scholars Offers Attractive Opportunities Finance Comlllittee's Shortage of F.,unds Bomb Scare Threatens Fox House ·May Jeopardize Campus Clubs IJy DEBRA B. HONIG pmblem, and then notified the Schenectady Police Depart- A bo.mb scare resulted in the ment. The police and fire evacuation of the entire Fox departments responded quickly donn this past Saturday night, to the situation, though nothing according to Head of Security turned up. By ELISE FOODY A Rhodes Scholarship may be the most prestigious honor bestoewed upon any student as well as the academic institution which he or she attends. Rhodes Scholars are considered some of the brightest and most am- bitious college-age students in the world who have been given the opportunity to study at the University of Oxford for two or three years and obtain a degree. All educational costs are paid on the Scholar's behalf by the Rhodes trustees, and the Scholar is also granted an allowance to meet any ad- ditional costs incurred throughout the term. The Rhodes Scholarships were first given in 1903 in ac- cordance with the will of Cecil J. Rhodes, a British statesman who died the previous year. Rhodes desired to bring qualified students throughout the world to study at OJdord University, where he obtained his degree in 1881, and also hoped to aid in the promotion of international understanding and peace. The benefits of obtaining the honor are numerous, and certainly fullfilling . • . but (they) must be left by those outside the scholarly community. The United States is allotted 32 positions at the University and thus provides the largest of the national delegations. Any student with a college degree who is between the ages of eighteen and twenty-four is eligible for application. However, due to the thousands of top-notch students who apply By NICK PICCIRILLO With increasing formation of new student clubs and on-going demands from existing clubs the Finance Committee finds itself in a recently un- precedented squeeze for money. · Each year students pay about $125 for student activities, which allows the Finance Corrunittee a budget of $289,000 ( 1987--88) . Any surplus carries over into the next year's budget. Last year's carryover to this year totaled $21,000. The unpleasant position the Jean Matus, Vice President of Finance for Student Forum Finance Conunittee finds itself in is because the 1987-88 budget funds were already allocated to the various clubs on campus by September, despite an actual cut in clubs' budgets. What now remains at their disposal is a mere $21,000 from last year. Realizing that requests for emergency money or for fun- ding of new endeavors between now and June may exceed this amount, the Finance Com- mittee is forced to act without hurting student activities in general. One proposal already acted upon is matching fund raisers. \We need to encourage Clifford Wood. Wood said that he has wit- independent fund raising within nessed several similar incidents a club to lessen the overall At the time of the call, Phi in the past 14 years he has been burden on the Firlance Cam- Sigma Kappa was hosting its here, although this was the first mittee,\ said Jean Matus, Vice- World War III party. The caU.er, scare in the past six years. He president of Finance for Student identified as a male, off- recalled a rash of bomb scares Forum. \We now match money campus, dialed directly to back in 1977, which consisted ef raised. dollar for dollar. Security, and said, \I planted a five incidents in five con- Although this reaches into our bomb in Phi Sigma Kappa. secutive days in Fox House and pockets, it puts more money They want World War III. I will Achilles Rink. At that time, into theirs, which means a give them World War III.\ many other local col~eges were greater reliance on their own According to Wood, Security experiencing the same funds in case of need.\ alertedthe fraternity abeut the problem. However, the actual degree of I' ~~~~~~-------~~~~~---~~~~~---------. seriousness in this problem may become clearer only when the next proposal heads fer Dean Mammola's office. \The . Finance Committee may be forced to notify the ad- ministration that Crew will no longer be subsidized by us,\ said Matus. \Crew has an annual budget of $17,000 but the real risk is, for example if they suddenly needed a new boat. This is a costly item, and would require a large percentage from our already limited general funds.'' For the time being, it looks like more self-reliance and tighter budgets for- individual clubs on campus. If new clubs are to be formed, financial obstacles will need to be overcome. \We are often ac- \We need to encourage independent fund raising within a clilb to lessen the overall burden of the Finance Committee.\ cused of discouraging for- mation of new clubs,\ said Matus. \We do not want to ·be looked at that way. We have what is given to us, and we do our best to spread that out accordingly throughout cam- pus.\ ' ~S~, 1 Emergency telephone - North UNION COLLEGE EMERGENCY TELEPHONES The College installed an extensive \emergency phone hotline\ network throughout the campus. There are nine outdoor emergency phones housed in RED telephone boxes in these locations: 27 North Terrace Lane Souteast Comer of Arts Building East side Achilles rink near Whipple Bridge East side Bailey Hall for the honor each year, com· ESCORT SERVICE 370 6386 petition is extremely intense. - Comer South Terrace Land and South Lane Northeast comer of Davidson House Southwest comer of Hunmanities Builcling Northeast comer of Social Sciences Building South side of 17 South Lane The Committees of Selection STUDENT ESCORT SERVICE desire candidates with an ex- The service is intended to enhance the safety and cellent academic record who security of students. Service will be provided for all have also excelled in team There are also WHITE interior hotline and courtesy phones on-campus requests and for reasonably close athletics and have proven to be ( 1 _ 2 block radius) off-campus requests. located strategically throughout buildings. These phones were strong leaders. It is available between a p.m. and 1 a.m. (S-Th) installed to provide security access for any person needing There has been one Rhodes · 8 2 (F s t ) emergency help, 24 hours a day. Upon lifting the handset of the S h l . h hi f U . ana p.m. - a.m. - a . c oar m t e story o mon A new exchange number 370·6386 has been added . hC>tline telephones, the security office is immediately notified of College, Gregg Meyers, a student enrolled in the six:-year exclusively for the escort service. This exchange the location of that phone, and will dispatch an officer to the medical program, who will be staffed entirely by students. They, in turn will location of that phone to assist the person(s) needing urgent graduated in l984. However, dispatch student drivers for the escort service. help. U · bo f Calls made on the 370·6386 extension should mon asts several pro essors It is strongly urged that the college community respect the who have held the honor, in- result in reasonably prompt service. During busy 6 hi h th h eluding Professor Joseph Board hous and inclement weather, studetns should purpose or w c ese p ones are provided, and only use them of the Political Science expect some delay. Students may request service in accordance with the instructions posted next to each phone. department. Board aids Union outside the regularly-scheduled hours. These calls Any malfunctioning phone or suspected misuse or tampering of students interested in applying will be handled by the Security Department on an an emergency phone should be reported to the College \as a1 \'1ble\ basis. Telecommunications or Security Office. .. ~~~~~~o~n~p~ag!e~3~~~~~~~~~;;~;;~~~===;==========~==~L.!:::::~~====~~==::~~~~::~:::=::~~~~ Hnl'mt<~ Htrtlf,l)Qiris · -'· >oo \Cross Culrurel Jn!'J;ueni · · ' . ' Coltl.mbian Art of Costa ~· I< ~ ·_ 3:45ptn. 4:30pm 7-lOpm lO:OOpm Friday, Ottober 30: S and' 7;3() pm 7, 9. 11 pm Saturdayf October 31: 5 and 7:30 pm 1, 9, 11 pm Su~tday; November h 8:.00 pm ' Aud. . · MBA Colloquium. William s·J tlin'n~f \Issues in ti<>spital Adl®.inistratio .. Bailey HalL. .. Physics Colloquia, Dr. JlUfies W. K. !tliv''li.· on \High Tempera.\•\ ,,, . .,< Supercottduetivity.'' Steinmetz tM: College Bowl Competition. CC Aud. Mountebanks Cabaret CC. Dinnet: The Bald Soprano. CC. Upperclas.s Dining Hall. Film: The Hitcher. CC Aud. Dinner: The Bald Soprano. CC. tJppetelass Diirlng H:all. Film: The Hitcher. CC Aud. Mountebank$ All~Campus Talent Show, Memorial ChapeL Film: The Hitc.her CC Aud. State Legisla~ive Internships for Winter~Spring The Political Science Department will offer a limited number of internships for credit in the New York State Legislature during the Winter and Spring terms. The program is normally operated as pair of P.S. courses (PS 76-78, \Legislative Observers\) but this year can only be offered in the form of P.S. independent studies supervised by prof. Charles Tidmarch. Potential applicants should be aware that they will be expected to devote approximately 12 hours per week to their internships, and are obliged to complete both terms (No \drop-outs\ after Winter term). No freshmen are eligible, and preference will be given to political Science majors. Applications and further information are available in the Pol. Sci. Dept. office (SS216). Applications will be due on Friday, Nov. 6, and acceptances will be posted on Mond~y, Nov. 9. I ' ·I I' I i ·' i'. I· i\ l I t r \ ' I ; I t \ .,

.[ COfiCORDIENSIS, October H,. 1987 Colleg.e NeWspaper Associ~ation District of. C,apital Founded Concordiensis · Charter Member A Union Boasts Qn:e ''Rhodes\· S'cho·lar Continued from page 2 Concordlensis and !line otller · .. pro{essionals would run local college news~pers ha-ve · · · works)lops on all aspects of organiZed themselV'ES as tlle newspaper production including College Newspaper .Association_ · newswriting, editing and photo- of the Capital Di:;trid to ad:- • journalism, .. The .tra.ining for the scholarship. He stressEs dress common probl~ms aJid · conference is inte!lded to in- th~ importance of perso11al promote active stlldEilt jour-- crease the pool of staff writers, dr1~e and individualilr ' nalism. . editors, and photographers for necessary for consideration llr The group met for :the first publications to draw frorn. the Committees of Selection. ']'() time at a luncheoll Saturday:, Other goals for the be chosen as a Rhodes Scbol21r- October 17, at tl!e l)estn .. nd Association ate to form a lob- is an enonnous. distinction, anti Americana in Colo11ie. Th·e . bying force, a.supp()rt network, Professor Board is anxious tiJ Dt. Ernest L Boyer luncheon was underwritten :by an information pool and an see more Union students Capital Newspapers-,.wiho serve economic coQperative. The countedam.ongthis eletegroll]J• as corporate sponsor-s for tbe . overriding objective is to solve He ertcoW'ages those studeats group. organizational problems so that who believe themselves to lle Jlle group's secon!l meeting . editors can focus ().ll the quality strong candidates to seek ad- will be November '1 .. t Siena; . of their publicatioll. ·. vic~ and guidance as early ;as the third meeting is tentativEly . The group was organized by · their ~reslunan year in college. scheduled for late :N()vember Eric Eitel, former editor-in- here at Union. . chief of Siena College's . The ben~fits of obtaining tile The editors fo11nd three . newspaper, The Iluli;an1 honor ofbelllg a Rhodes Scnoblt\ pressing common eoncerns: ''Tli-ere are hmndreds. of · are. numerous and certailll? lack of staff, buclget con.. pro'blems facing college . fulfilling for. any student but ·In straints, and lack <if j()umalism editors,\ Eitel said~ \It's about . · following the establishecl cours,es or a journalism maj()r. · tirne we got organized not only · · desires of Cecil Rhodes, the.se London ;Times Columnist Asserts Importance of General Education Two .project ideas will- be to help ourselves but to make · benefits must also be felt IJ~ discussed at length at 1lle things easier for tho11e who -those outside this prestigiom second meeting. One ()roject is follow us.'~ scholarly community. Rhodes to secure a wen~knllwn print The other participating · wanted the administrators of journalist, such a~ Jimmy · schools are College of Saint · his will to seek candidates wllo Breslin or Andy Jtooney, to · Rose, Russell Sage, Skidmore, would first gain knowledge ,at speak on the val11e e>f student Siena, RPI, Hu.dson Valley the Uni-versity of Oxford and b journalism for a ~mmunity Com~unity College, Junior turn .Wle this knowledge to audience. A second goal fs to College of Albany, and contribute to internatio11al run a three-day tra:Jni!tg eon- Schenectady Community stability and world ad- ference at an area llotel. Area College. vancetnent. Nett's History of Use Unclear Campu$' Needs to Determine Future Use ·. . . Continued, from page 1, . . . . . , .· . · · - • ' I - • ' ' ' holds a:bout lOO,gl-ving everyone a· good seat and geod hearing, . enabling them to feel that they · . · · Ptresident Morris' personal ~; preference in regal'd to the Nott's current use ie; favorably directed toward the theatre. He likes· the small, intimate audience seating. lie believ>4!s that the Nott has been: \superb as a theatre-in-thE·l'l)uncl.''' It ·are a part. of what goes on.· If limited funding were to force the Nott t() remain as a theatre-in-the-rollDd, the belief that such 'a theatre would look UNION REVIEW ·oF BOOKS like the present one i~ an in- correct assumption, accor.din~J to the president. The Nott coul«< be fixed up as a very nicE theatre.in-the-round. Presidell!t Morris assumes that if such ;a use were selected, the uppeJ' floor would be used as a galler::y floor, open to the dome, so tl:t!lt this view would not be hidden~ President Morris conclude~(! that he would \like very rnucl1 to see the Nott restored,\ an.-<1 be hopes he helps in getting tllat wish turned into reality. By ~LISS.t\ STEW.ART Each year Union College hosts the Steinmetz Memorial Lecture as a tribute to Dr. Charles Steinmetz, who is widely recognized· for his contributiions to electrical engineering. He is also · remembered for his interest in ~proving and expanding the public school system of . Schenectady as a member of the city's Board of Education. Many of his ideas have since been implemented at schools acros~ the United States. This year's guest speaker at the · lecture was Dr. Ernest L. Boy~r, president of the Car- !legie 'Foundation for · the .~dvancement of Teaching. He 1s also a colwnnist for the London Times and the author of two books dealing with the educational system in· this country. He has served on a variety of boards promoting education and was selected as the leading educator in the United States for 1983. His topic was the importance of general educa~ion as pat;t of ~he college experience. His dtscussion entitled \College: Making th~ ''THE CRASH 1 ' \Sometimes Americans make a rather sharp dichotomy between private and public life. Viewing one's primary task as ·\finding <meself\ in autonom()US self-reliance, separating oneself not only fro01 one's parents but also from those larger coninrnDities and tradition~ that constitute one's past, le~ds to the notion that it is in oneself, perhaps in relation to a few intimate otllers, that fulfillment is to be fcund. Individualism of this ~ort often ilnplies a.· negative: view of 'public The Stock Market Crash What Happened? ·ure .... Butmr the basiS of what we h~ve seeri in our observation of middle-class American life, it would seem tllat tllis quest for purely ·private · fulfillment is illllsory: It often ends in emptiness instead. 11 H11.1Jits .of the Heart. •; What does it meaf:l\? Wi II my Dad be selling appl~s on the street? Union Speakers Forum Presents: A Discussion ·vr::lth Dr. Bradley Lewis Wednesday ·Now. 4 4:30 College Cen-ter Auditorium Connections,\ stressed that to be well ecucated, a student must be able to interrelate all that he has learned throughout his college experience. It is particularly appropriate that he chose this subject now, while the college is presently working to create a new and · better general curriculum program.. The way to best design the new plan has been an extremely controversial· issue on campus over the course of the last year. As Boyer sees it, the purpose of a college is to prepare a person to contribute productively to society and achieve independence. In order for this to ·happen~ a student must be able to pllt all the elements of today' s intricate It is necessary for all educators 'to have a diverse far-reaching backgr()ond. socie~y· into th~ proper per- spective. A fmrly extensive course program intr(Jducing the student to disciplines other than his own should be inStituted in- . all colleges and universities. Although Boyer has no specific plan to accomplish what he advocates, he did present what he feels should be the fundamental elements of a . · general education program. . Foremost, is the ability to understand and manipulate · symbols in a clear, precise manner. Language is respon- sible for setting · the hutnan being. above other species and has made possible our modern -technologically advanc.ed . sqciety~ Communication of . ide~s is vital; therefore, writing . . cour~es which stress clarity shoultl be . required a.t all schools~ Boyer says that language can go far beyond that which we write and speak. There is a more eloquent language that can only be ex- Continued on page 4 Objective: Monthly discussion op~n to the canipus community--faculty, staff, & students--involving a book selected for its visibility and potential interest to the community. Meeting dates are tlle second Wednesday Qf ~ach month throughout tlte academic . The Capitol Region Association for eating disorders offers a support group for sufferers, family and signifcant others. . school year from 1~()0 to 2:00 pm. at the College Center. Second Selection Robert N. :Bellah, ·et al., Habits of the Heart: · Individualism and Commitment in American' Life (1985): Oa sale at the Campus store at a discount for $5.00. · Wednesday November 11, 1987 In the Cabaret Conege Center ~:OOpm Locations, dates,_ and times are as follows:\' Schenectady: UniC.ltCollege 4L~ floor College Center every 1st Tuesday. Troy: Russell Sage College, Sage Hall Counseling Center. 2nd St. Entrance every 2nd W:~esday. .Albany: 419 Madi&lnAve. Junior League B.ullding e\rery 3rd TUesday. No fees for these meetings. Group meetings are from 7:30-9:00 pm starting the beginning of November. ..

'. I \ I. .\· l' .' l :1 •' CONCORDIENSlS, October 29_, Page 3 College Newspaper Association District of Capital Founded Concordiensis Charter Member A Concordiensis and nine other · local college Aewspapers have organized themselves as the College Newspaper Association_ of the Capital District to ad- dress common problems and promote active student jour- nalism. The group met for the .first time at a luncheon Saturday, October 17, at the Desmond Americana in Colonie. The luncheon was underwritten by Capital! Newspapers, who serve as corporate sponsors for the group. The group's second meeting will be November 7 at Siena; the third meeting is tentatively scheduled for late November here at Union. The editors found three pressing common concerns: lack of staff, budget con- straints, and lack of journalism courses or a journalism major. Two project ideas will be discussed at length at the second meeting. One project is to secure a well-known print journalist, such as Jimmy Breslin or Andy Rooney, to speak on the value of student journalism for a community audience. A second goal is to rWl a three-day training con· ference at an area hotel. Area professionals would run workshops on an aspects of newspaper production including newswriting, editing and photo- journalism. The training conference is intended to in- crease the pool of staff writers, editors, and photographe1·s for publications to draw from. . Other goals for the 1 Association are to form a lob- • lilying force, a support network, : an information pool and an 1 economic cooperative. The overriding objective is to solve orgaAizational problems so that editors can focus on the quality af their publication. The group was organized. by I Eric Eitel, former editor-inn chief of Siena College's newspaper, The Indian. \There are hundreds of problems facing college editors,\ Eitel said. \It's about time we got organized not only to help ourselves but to make things easier for those who follow us.\ The otller participating schools are College of Saint Rose, Russell Sage, Skidmore, Siena, RPI, Hudson Valley Community College, Junior College of Albany, and Schenectady Community College. Union Boasts One \Rhodes\ Scholar Continued from page 2 for the scholarship. He stresses th~ importance of personal dnve and individuality necessary for c<msideration by the Committees of Selection. To be chosen as a Rhodes Scholar is an enormous distinction, and Professor Board is anxious to see more Uni·on students counted among this elete group. He eHcourages those students who believe themselves to be strong candidates to seek ad- vic~ and guidance as early as their freshman year in college. The benefits of obtaining the honor of being a Rhodes Scholar are nwnerous and certainly fulfilling for any student but in following the established desires of Cecil Rhodes these benefits must also be felt by those outside this prestigious scholarly community. Rhode~ wanted the administrators of his will to seek candidates who would first gain knowledge at the University of Oxford and in turn use this knowledge to contribute to international stability and world ad- vancement. Dr. Ernest L. Boyer London Times Columnist Asserts lm portan ce of General Education By MELISSA STEW ART Connections,\ stressed that to be well ecucated, a student must be able to interrelate all that he has learned throughout his college experience. Nott's History of Use Unclear Each year Union College hosts the Steinmetz Memorial Lecture as a tribute to Dr. Charles Steinmetz, who is widely recognized for his contributiions to electrical engineering. He is also remembered for his interes.i in improving and expanding the public school system of Schenectady as a member' of the city's Board of EducaUon. Many of his ideas have since been implemented at schQ()lS across the United States. Tllis year's guest speaker at the lecture was Dr. Ernest L. Boyer, president of the Car- negie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. He is also a columnist for the London Times and the author of two books dealing with the educational system in this country. He has served on a variety of boards promoting education and was selected as the leading educator in the United States for 1983. His t()pic was the importance of general education as part of the college experience. His discussi·on entitled \College: Making th~ It is particularly appropriate that he chose this subject now, while the college is presently working to create a new and better general curriculum program. The way to best design the new plan has been an extremely controversial issue on campus over the course of the last year. As Boyer sees it, the purpose of a college is to prepare a person to contribute productively to society and achieve independence. In order for this to happen, a student must be able to put all the elements of today's intricate Campus' Needs to Determine Future Use Continued from page 1 President Morris' personal preference in regard to the Nott's current use is favorably directed toward the theatre. He likes the small, intimate audience seating. He believes that the Nott has been \superb as a theatre-in-the-round.\ It holds about lOO.giving everyone a good seat and good hearing, enabling them to feel that they are a part of what goes on. If limited funding were to force the Nott to remain as a theatre-in-the-round, the belief that such a theatre would look UNION REVIEW OF BOOKS \Sometimes Americans make a rather sharp dichotomy between private and public life. Viewing one's primary task as 11 finding oneself\ in autonomous self-reliance, separating oneself not only from one's parents but also from those larger communities and traditions that constitute one's past, leads to the notion that it is in oneself, perhaps in relation to a. few intimate others, that fulfillment is to be found. Individualism of this sort often implies a negative view of public life .... Buton the basis of what we ha.ve seen in our observation of middle-class American life, it would seem that this quest for purely private fulfillment is illusory: It often ends in emptiness instead.\ Habits of th~ Heart. Objective: Monthly discussion op,en to the campus community--faculty, staff, & students--involving a book selected for its visibility and potential interest to the community. Meeting dates are the second Wednesday of each month throughout the academic school year from 1 :00 to 2:00 pm at the College Center. Second Selection Robert N. Bellah, et al., Habits of the Heart: Individualism and C()mmitment in American Life (1985). On sale at the Campus store at a discount for $5.00. Wednesday November 11, 1987 In the Cabaret Co11ege Center 1:00pm like the present one is an in- cm·rect assumption, according to the president. The Nott could be fixed up as a very nice theatre-in-the-round. President Morris assumes that if such a use were selected, the upper floor would be used as a gallery floor, open to the dome, so that this view would not be hidden. President Morris concluded that he would \like very much to see the N ott restored,\ and he hopes he helps in getting that wish turned into reality. ''THE CRASH'' The Stock Market Crash Wr1at Happened? What does it mean? Will my Dad be selling apples on the street? Union Speakers Forum Presents: A Discussion with Dr. Bradley Lewis Wednesday Nov. 4 4:30 College Center Auditorium It is necessary for all educators to have a diverse far-reaching background. socie~y into th~ proper per- spective. A fatrly extensive course program introducing the student to disciplines other than his own should be instituted in all colleges and universities. Although Boyer has no specific plan to accomplish what he advocates, he did present what he feels should be the fundamental elements of a general education program. Foremost, is the ability to understand and manipulate symbols in a clear, precise manner. Language is respon- sible for setting the human being above other species and has made possible our modem technologically advanced society. Communication of ideas is vital; therefore, writing courses which stress clarity should be required at all schools. Boyer says that language can go far beyond that which we write and speak. There is a more eloquent language that can only be ex- Continued on page 4 The Capitol Region Association for eating disorders offers a support group for sufferers, family and signifcant others. Locations, dates, and times are as follows: Schenectady: Union College 4th floor College Center evecy 1st Tuesday. Troy: Russell Sage College. Sage Hall CounseliiJ.g Center. 2nd St. Entrance every 2nd Wednesday. Albany: 419 Madison Ave. Junior League Building evecy 3rd Tuesday. No fees for these meetings. Group meetings are from 7:30 - 9:00 pm starting the beginning of November.

Page 4 - \-£-0NCORDIENSIS October 29, 1987 r . --.- . . Lack of Communication Delays Housing. Repairs By VIRGINIE MELlO tene_n_ ce. He says that no. t every· u·- M' ' ··amt\ Sw\t 'h + What are the obstacles 'to a . maintenance problem is the . Wesleyan Recommends : . ' . . . ' .. ·. . I 0 . es .. o bette~ fr~ternity-maintenance . result of abuse to the house. Plus-Minus System • relationship? According to Ken Limited. resources and .poor Fraternities Co-Educate · G P A' D Relyea of Physical Plant the communication make for a long . \ • \ S .. rop basic problem is ~om- wait fbr repairs. Dean Alford Coral Gables, FL (IP) .. The munication. Last year work states, \I think that it is im- Middletown, Conn, (IP) -The grade-point average for the orders were processed first . perative that they {the recently released Wesleyan entiTe University .of Miami through Dean Massa, after Mr .. fraternities) have a good Residential Life Task Force dropped from the spring . Relyea, who then had to ·relationship with Ken,'' and ''I report recommended that the semester to the fall semester of ·, organize ~nd send out a working will cDntinue tQ help foster the five au. male residential 1987 when the new plus-minus crew. This process took time. cotnmunicaton.\ fraternities coeducate within · grading system ,Was im- When Dean Massa left, work Efforts are being made to three years. The RLTF also • plemented, according to Dr. or~ers weren't properly sub.. improve communications on all ~at~~ that) \the .meaning and Howard Pospesel, philosopl!y m.J.tted and over the sununer the sides. on october 8, the · s1gmf1cance of pr10rity housing department chairperson. · new people hired had to adjust · fraternities, the maintenance has been weakened\ and called The University's average · to the system. · staff, and Dean Alford held an for a review of such housing. CPAfellfrom2.76to2.68, a total Another problem with organizational luncheon in Described by President Colin dr<>p -of .08 points, excluding conununication includes order to stress the importance Campbell as a \statement of . grades for honors courses. dependency on outside vendors. of alleviating this problem. All philosophy and suggestions '·' , Recognizing the drop as a big · Fraternities have to call them sides \felt that the luncheon was the. report reconunends. th~t, change, Pospesel still noted-the . in to repair many appliances. If a success. · · \the all-male residential merit of the new ~radin~ .. the fraternities don't call back Better relations between · fraternities at Wesleyan admit system. ''If there's a chance for maintenance assumes the work these groups are reflected in the · women to full membership.'' It a .plus or minus, it give the • . ~as done~ If it wasn't, more compromises between them. . says that \persuasion\ should students the incentive to study,\ . Campus Briefs c··urriculums .Should Introduce Student to Disciplines. Oth,er Than His Own Conlin ued from .page ;J pressed through the arts. It is, theref()re~ necessary for students to gain an appreciation of all that music, dance and the visual arts encornpass .. ExpDsure to the Arts is im- portant in creating . a well rounded knowledge of oociety. Symbols also inCludes mathematics. All students shDuld have at least a basic comprehension of all that can be ac~Coinplished through its manipulation. tune goes by and complaints For example, new carpeting be us~d to effect this change and said Dr. John T. F..itzgeraid, ; . and tension heighten. · was installed in one chapter as that Wesleyan should \offer assistant professor of religion Mr. Relyea is \trying to be a long as the furniture in the · financial support to fraternities and chairman of the committee ·. ----.,--..--- ...... ...----- focal point\ of communication, house stayed a little longer, In ·that undertake the conversion.\ which proposed the system. . I The purpose of a college and wants the fraternities to · addition, the furniture from is tc p·repare a person to deal with him on a personal and West College was sent out, contribute p;roduc(ively morefrequentbasis.Alongwith refurbished,andgiventooneof •• e e to S()Ciety and ac:IJ.ieve ~d As~:~t D~:n ~~:::en~~ ~~~~~~!~f~~~i~atn~e~a:~~ '::~~ , . . . .- _ . • • . . . . . . . indep.endence. ~~:v;~:: ~~s J:~:~~: t~~~!:~ :~r?rese~~sF~~~d r~~~J~:~~ While courses in writi 11 g, the the fraternities and. main- throughout the year. . Arts, the Humanities, and math derstand present day society, r ----------T.m-.:_ __ ..:_ _____ _:============:::======::::::::=:=::!·1 can :help a student to un- an understanding of the past is equaliy important .. Knowing how sodety has reached its OUR FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM: More than a learning experience RECEPTION WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4 • at3:00 p.m The Albany Hilton Arthur's Court TenEyck Plaza, AlbQ!ly We invite all SUNY-Albany Seniors and Union College Seniors to get to know the people and - Finance opportunities available · at Salomon Brothers. Salomon .Brothers InC Market Makers and Investment Bankers One New York Plaza, New York, NY 10004 '· present stage can help stu.dents to create a better tomorrow. Thus,. co:1rses in heritage, litel\ature and science are also impor:tant. Also beneficial are courses introducing the culture and language of other societies. In a \WOrld growing increasingly closer.' due to. advancements in tele~'9min.unications.-, an . q.n- derstanding of other .. lliiltlrio§!: :values.iscr.-!l;c;~l.. To.~h~ th~t a.. . student can effectivEJiy' 1n-· : tegra.te an that he has learned, Boyer feels that in his thesis, a student should discuss the social, ethical, and moral issues dire~ly related to his major course of study. Overall, he feels it is the duty o~ ~n in- struetor to help the student establish a proper perspective; therefore it is necessary for all educ:at<Jrs to have a diverse, far-reaching backgrol}lld. Interested if! contributing to Ooncordiel1sis NEVYS? - . Contact- either Becky Whidden at 4416 or Fiorta Shukri at 4'166. -~====! DAMBROSE CLEANERS 51'7 Van Vranken Ave \374-5193- CRY CLEANI~G AND T AlLORING .·'·t I

CONCORDIENS.IS, October 29, 1987 Page 5 FEATURES Frater.nity Rush By PETER KATZ Men and women once again seem to have a difference of opinion. At Union, sororities and fraternities run their rushes in quite separate fashions. Sorority rush, on one hand, is a short · intense period when virtually every girl visits all four sororities. Then by prc:>cess of elimination they finally decide to bid at one of them. All of this takes about one week. On the other .hand, fraternity rush is a long, constant process. It starts on the first Tuesday of school with the Rl!Sh con- vocation. All freshmen are invited to attend and listen to a guest speaker talk abOut fraternities in general. Also, the Interfraternal Cb1Ulcil .(IFC) goes over important poolicies and dates. It marks the beginning of rush. Mter the convocati()n,. there is a series of two week intervals which make up fraternity- rush. The first two weeks is an informal dry rush. AccCJrding to Marty Cepkauskas, presLdent of the IFC, this .is when frater- nities can have parties, invite freshmen over for dinner, and other invitational events .. Marty stressed the fact that no alcohol can be served during this rush period. He continued to say that the IFC doesn't regulate each individual fraternity on their rush activities., however the houses are entrusted to abide by the given guidelines. The second two weeks is formal dry rush when each house should have at least one dry rush function. These func- tions are open invitational which means· anyone may at~ tend. Two !inal weeks of rush are again informal and dry. It is a time for houses to invite back any person they choose to their functions. -At the conclusion of this last informal rush there is a bid date. This is the earliest a fraternity may give out a bid to perspective brothers. This year's bid date is November 2. Once the bids are given out there are no regulations as to how each fraternity must run the rest of msh. Once the bids are accepted, the fraternity has tlleir pledges. Usually the ·pledge petiGd is about one term; however, there is no set amount of time. It may vary depending. upon the house. :li1ollowing the pledge period, the fraternity inducts· the pledges and they become brothers. Marty also said, ''There is a spring rush,. but no guidelines llave been established except f<Jr it being dry.\ To add to the social benefits of the fraternity system, the IFC sponsors events during the year, such as Greek Week in the spring. The IFC . also acts as liaison between the fraternities and the aclministration; Last year was the first time that the IFC instituted the dry rush policy. Marty added that the only reason the system was changed was because of the drinking age. \Now is a transition period in -schools. Everyone is ex- perimenting with the dry rush policy. It will most probably be the way of the future. Hopefully it will succeed,\ Marty said. . Last year's winner Dan Gordon in Japan Watson Finalists Announced By DOUG KLEIN Watson Selection Committee Union College's Watson Selection C()mmittee last week the spots. frequented py the group of literary and social figures known as the Bloom- sbury Group. She hopes to understand influences on their work (Virginia Woolf in par- ticular), as well as to inspire her own literary efforts. Of Course I Wrote This Week! · announced the names of the four finalists who will be nominated to the Thomas J. Watson F()undation. Seniors Sarah Bittleman, Maggie Boitano, Vince Nicotina and Eddy Remy join approximately 200 other finalists from 50 small liberal arts colleges in vying for the 80 grants of $13,000 each to fund a year of international travel in the year following graduation. Last year, two of Union's fo.ur finalists won fellowhips: Sue Knoll (now in China studying women textile workers and teaching English) and Dan G0ordon (now in Japan studying baseball, soon on his way to Cuba). Maggie Boitano would use a Watson to study and understand the lives of social outcasts: the Burakumin class of Japan, and the Sudra caste of India. She has already made contacts in both countries, and hopes to live and work With members of these ''stigmatized minorities.\ Vince Nicotina plans to visit Sicily and countries ringing the Mediterranean in search of the roots of Sicilian folk music. In addition to his interest in music, he is concerned by the speed with which cultural traditions, including folk music, are being forgotten. By CATHY MARKES Here I sit in the 8-foot window at Concordy, watching the rain fall. You know~ it hasn't rained for two weeks now! I've been so busy enjoying the great fall weather, I hadn't noti(!ed the · leaye~ · ste.a~IY fa~g ~ff tl}e .. trees imt11 today-~ I 'wal~ed pas~ · '. Memorial Chapel last w-eek and noticed the beautiful crimson ivy covering the entire: side of the building-today it~s .a mass of bare, straggling vines. . Fall is starting to become a strangely depressing season. Think about it: first, w;e had to leave the beach at h~me <md return to this Schenectady campus, only to have a record snowfall four weeks into the term. So we packed ~:~way all our summer clothes and broke out the sweaters, only to bave some wonderful 6(),.degree afternoons lately. Of course I don't mind that, but right now it's the worst thing to })e forced to watch all visible signs of life disintegrate into the ground. Even the ducks know better than to stick around ... So parka season is upon us, right in time for midterms. This excites me almost as much as returning from Tharaksgiving break to take three finals (one of which is scheduled for Friday afternoon!) Somehow J had the false impression that holidays were .for enjoyment. What a Nelson•s Book St11re 113 Jay Str,eet, Scbenectm dy Open: Monday thru Saturday 11 am - 5:30 pm . Thursday evenings 'til·9 pm thought, huh? . At least the view from this window is noteworthy. I'll leave you with the thought that your life at Union will be incomplete until you've sat in an 8-foot window and simply checked out the view. Whether it's from Carnegie, the front of the library, North or South, it's a great place to daydream. {And who knows, you might even write a Concordy article). This year, Sarah Bittleman has proposed to visit some of Schedule for Visiting Woodrow Wilson Fel)ow Nora Sayre November 1-5, 1987 Sunday, November 1: Monday, November 2: Tuesday, November 3: Wednesda)', November 4: Thursday, November 5: Arrival of Nora Sayre, Amtrak Station, Schenectady. 9:00- 10:()5 \Contemporary International Politicltls\ HU 014 Topic: ''The Col-d War in Fihn\ Prof. Chris Laursen. 10:30 Coffee with Joanne Tobiessen, Director of Career Development. College Center, Dutch Hollow Pub. 12:00- 1:00 LIUlch with Martha Huggins, Chair, Sociology and Anthropology. 4:00 Infortllal talk with students on \W1iting as a Profession,\ for Career Development Center, College Center, Room 204. 5:30 Wine and Cheese Reception in Social Sciences Lounge. 6:15 Dinner in College Center with invited guests for film \The Hour of the Star.\ 7:30 Discwsant for Women's Studies FJlm Series. Public invited to the Brazilian :film \The Hour of the Star.\ College Center Auditorium. 10:45 Meeting with llene Kaplan, Department of sooiolo.gy, SSC 21SC. 12:50-2:30 \Popular Culim:e and American History,\ Prof. Faye Dudden, S:S014. Lecture topic: \The Cold War :in Fihn.\ 2:40 -4:30 \The Sociology of the Family,\ Prof. llene Kapian SS 112. Topic: \Women Marriage and the Family in Y!lrn. o 7:00 Dinner with President and Mrs. Moms and invited guests. 10:15 • 11 :20 \Introduction to Sociology,\ Prof. Martha Huggins, SS 104 topic: \The Image of Women in FJlm.\ 12;30 Lunch in Dutch Hollow Pub, College Center with Profs. Harry Marten, Anne Scott, Kit Hataway and JordanSmi.th. 2:00 • 3:()5 \Creative Writi.ilg Workshop I,\ Prof. Jordan Smith, HU 119, topic: \How to Write a Book Review.\ 3:30 Brin QUell, Director of Publicity (possible taping of sh~w for Public Radio). 11:00 C()llege Centm' A-uditorium - Minerva Lecture: \Writing of Memoirs: A Portrait of Edmund WilSon.\ 12- 2:00 MinerVa Luncheon.- College Center, ·Rm. 203. 7:30 Ditmer with localfrimds and Union faculty. Eddy Remy's proposal is in sQme ways similar to Vince's, with the medium of dance, and the setting of West Africa. Rather than seeking tile roots of traditional Mrican dance, however, Eddy is interested in seeing · the reverse: how is Western dance, and Western interpretations of African dance received among dancers still in the traditional mold? Best of luck to this year's finalists, and on behalf of the Selection Committee, tbanks to all of the Seniors who applied. The finalists will interview with Martin Brody, Director of the Watson Foundation (and himself a 1972 WatsDn winner) on November lO,with winners to be announced in March. For Juniors who are in- terested, the application process begins in Spring term, but it is never too early to start dreaming and planning. WRITE FOR FEATURES Call Wendy 381-9089 Marjorie x 6961 Cathy x 4371 - -'LnteTna.ttonat R.eta.ttons Ctu.&- . tJ you 't\e inte-rested. in 90Ln43 w-Lnter term to Pri-nceton node£ Unt.ted: Nation P[ease Call THE BIRDS IS COM·ING AMtew 386-4172

,. Page' CONCORDlENSlS, Ot:tobdlr 29, 1987 Sharon Anderson ''Not Another Ticket·'' BySUSANSRAFFER \But people always park there!'' ''Look officer, hvw do you know that my car was even there to begin with. [t wasn't there yesterday and it isn't there now. Haven't peDple been known to have the same hallucinations.'' \I didn't see the sign.\ \I wasn't planning on leaving tny car there overnight. I just ran into the dorm to get something and the fire alarm went off, this is when I left my car keys.in the.room, Then I had to run to class, the11 dinner and . then it was dark S() I couldn't walk back from the parking lot by myself.\ \My car w~ul~'t ~tart.:' . ' students whe ·offer such excuses as those previously stated. N~w, with the aid of this committee, students who are .serious wnr be taken seriously with the help of evidence and a formal hearing. Spot light On . . . If someone breaks the rilles or doesn't follow regulations, then they deserve to be penalized. However if someone is mistreated or ,given an un- founded violation then they have the right to appeal. The newly established Traffic Appeals Committee, which is based upon what used to be. the Traffic and Pet · Cou:rt, allows the students the right to voice their own side of the story. Most times a student is not taken seriously when 1le-sl1e com- plains about tile school's penalization system. This is Coincident~lly, a few days after I ,received my assignment · I began em:plGYinent with the security department. Within only two day~ of working, I cam across more .traffic tickets tllari I would have ever tbougbt possible. I also noticed that many people try to get out of paying their tickets without any good excuse. Tickets can be co$ly and it is important for those who are misfined to have the opportunity to appeal them . Headed by Deb Byer, the Traffic: Appeals Committee formally he~rs cases of what students believe to be un· founded violations. These cases are referred. to Deb by Jeanette Poole of Security. Deb, along with her committee memi>ers Tina Scioechettl and Allen Rappleyea, take all the facts into ccnsideration before a decision is made. Sharon Anderson This C()mmittee- is m no way an opportunity for people to get out of · paying their tickets. It represents the students rights and it offers the students a fair way to appeal any decisi~ns which they may find to be un- just. Anyone can appeal a decision by talking to Mrs. Poole of Security. BySTACYPAPA Sharon Anderson has takEn on a sw·e challenge! She is Union's area coordinator for West, Richmond\ and North dor· mitories. A graduate of St. Rose, Sharon received a Bachelor~s Degree in Business Administration in l!J8&. She worked as a Resident Advisor and Residence Coordinator at St. Rose while she was a full· time student. Sharon says she has received a warm wel<!ome from the administration, upon her arrival to Union. Mrs. Anderson says it is a pleasure to work f()r Dave Wood, Dean of Residence Life. She adds that she is grad11ally trying to meet and get inv()lved with personnel from all dif· ferent areas on campus su<!h as career :and personal C()unseling. She is presently working on her Master's in College Student Personnel. Mrs. AnderS()n has fourteen Resident Advisors, who report to her to discuss and focus on programs concerntng social, educational and recreational areas of life at Union. Mrs. Anderson's main pur- pose at Union is tc. \foster in- tellectual and social growth.'' She feels she has takEn on great responsibility but fibds her job to be rewarding beca 11se she has the opportunity to d.eal one-on- one with the st11dents. She conunents that thE students here ai\e serious .ai>out their academics and are very in- volved with activities, specifically calling thE campus \'a COIIiinUiiity. 1 ' As the Area Co()crdinator, she ·deals with many ~spects such as housing personal concerns, and academic qaestims. Her office hours are !)4 and by appointment. Tryhg to keep herself avaiable for the students, as- a \g~od resource person,\ she likes to slip out sometimes for swilllrning or a movie. The one asiJect of her position that she d()es not care for, Sharon seriously states, ''is discipline.\ She d(}ES not look forward to fining ()r Jlellalizing a Is Coro Foundation Accep1ing Applications for the 1988-89 FELLOWS PROGRAM In Public Affairs Information Session Monday, Nov. 3, 1·987- 7 pm Hale House, Lower Lounge Interviews: Tuesday,Nov.4, 1987 Placement at Career Center The Fellows Program is a nine-month experience-based · training program f<>r college graduates interested in: public service. 12 Fellows work in goverr.rnent, business, Iaber, politics, and community a~encies to develop their capabilities for public leac:lership Financial aid and stipends up to $8,000 are available. student for intentional fire alarm pullings .. But she is quick to add that .here at Union discipline is fllllc.tional and that she has been so. ''impressed with the scho()l and the students that it makes ller position ex- tremely gratifying.\ true whe11 there are - Over the River- and T'hrou~gJJ.> ... the Woods ... to SUNY RyWENDYZ~ERMAN Do you ever get the feeling that Union gets smaller every day? Now d<Jn't get me wrong, wllen I applied early decisi~n to Union not ()nly was I aware ·of its size, but tllis was a common characteristic of all scho~ls I looked into. I ~m not saying tllis is a bad thing, but I think that it has taken me almost four years t() realize jllSt how small Uni()n really is. Just the other day I took off for the SUNY Albany campllS; specifically, the library. Needless to say, it to()k my friend and I twenty mil1utes to get there; fr()m the parking lot. As we got into the .car, witll the sun shining, watclling tlle colorful lea.vEs as we Z()~med dCJwn the Thl\uway listening to a homemade tape of our favorite 'tUlles to drive by,' we anticipated an educational as well as beneficial trip (for our ·thesis of c~urse). Little did we know what we had in store. Of' course upon entering a strange new campus, your neurons kkk in and begin retrieving all ()f your stored up 'campus tactics.' So, relying en our fully stCJcked brain, we located the visitors' parking lot. Already, a flash 'Of light went e>n inside that vital brain area and everything went kapl()oey! Not only did it take literally five minutes to follow the signs, but the visitors' parking Lot that we * * * * * * * * * * * * chose to use held ll$ many cars as all of Schenectady! ! We were forced to park about 200 yards away from the building; which one, we didn't know. Arriving out of breath upon a concrete platform, we rested and took in the sights. Where was everyone? Here again our brains fooled us m.to thinking that there would be students walking aro11nd campus; chatting, walking etc. Alas, again we were dumbfounded; no one was aroUIJd. Fine, we thought, we'll take om chances and begin yrt a11othel\ aerobic workout. Already I had t~ visit the lavatory, so we ·entered the building in fro11t of us. And wouldn't you know that large building was devoted to the study of Earth Scienee? What do ya' mean, we clon't have that here? In any case upon relieving ourselves we jour- neyed onward. You got it, through the Fine Arts building. Yes, again, fooled. Where is the . stone floor, the staircase, THE IVY! I But we went on, acting like the real troopers that we are. ,.. Of course at this point, because of our br.ain malfunc- tion, we expected to see at least someone we knew, or at least someone making it apparent that they had never seen us before. We screwed up again. Could it have lleen that not everyone there !las seen the EARN A FREE TRIP TO JAMAICA whole studEnt body at one time or anot.her! 1-fow u, was getting- late and at the rate we were going we wouldn't make it back for diruler. We took the plunge; asked for directions. The girl was nice en~ugh, although she was under the impression that we' were familiar with every nook and cranny oftl!is city, oops, I m~an campUs. After our con- frontation, we finally made it to the Library. Bat it doesn't end here folks. When y()u walk througl:l an entrance four doors wide, you know that not only are you not at Union, b11t you're also in trouble. W.e had to locate a map to finally end up in the Peri()dieals. When we got there, we mdn't see any mov:ing shelves, ()1\ thoSe wonderful xerox machines. Instead, we found out tllrough our vari()US inquiries that we had to go back up t() find out what was there, and go back downstairs to at- tempt to fllld them. Suffi<le it to say that at this point I was missing Union in a big way. By the time we deCided what we needed we allowed ourselves to depend · 011 the good ol' :inter- library loan system. InreferEnceto my intro, d()n't let the si:ze CJf Union start to trouble y()u. You'll begin to realize, \\hen the size really becomes apparent, that you're lucky. I mean I'd much rather be referred to as Wendy-,. and not 911899• * * * * * * * # * * * * * * * * * DURING SPRING BREAK * * * * * * * * CONTACT SUN. SPLASH TOURS, INC. * * * I· 1-800-426-7710 * * * ~ * * * Or * * * * (212) 967-4854 * 1: * * :1: I :I :i

I CONCORDT..KNSlS, October 29, 1987 Pag.e 7 FEA'TURES Getting-It From Both Sides: Hickok House ~~, ·,o/Jfi!::A',<I'~',_ Gals Although . Hickok is a great place to live, not everyone knows or understands how great .it r-eally is. Many of us who live here often recieve looks of sympathy on the assumptions that we did not choose to live here. However, this is not the case. The majority of the girls here had other housing alternatives, yet they choose life at Hickok. After all, with two floors of guys below us how bad could it be? Within the first weeks of school, the comnion atea in the basement became .more like a family room.. On most any evening there is bound to be a mixed group of people congregating either watching TV, ~oing , homework, or just hangmg around. The size of the dorm, the friendliness af the people and their enthusiasm toward living here make dorm activities through!y successful.· Already, we have painted the idol, had a pizza. party, played ~dnight football in the yard w1th the guys, and enjoyed happy hours. Resi_dence life __ sho~d justly be given credit f()l' their decisio.n in making Hickok co- ed;. however, they cannot be accredited for making it the great · place tnat it is-that belongs to the people who live here. Perhaps the college was :right in naming this dor- mHfckok House, because the people who live here reguard it as more of a home than just a place to live. Hick<JkHouse- from the outside Guys The jmior }()ttery provided a source <Jf excitement for those of us in the basement. Kn· now:in.g thatit would be our last chan~e tp be near friends~ ( havimg lost our spot in the lotter:v) , we haped to get decent roorns. T.he choice was between Hiek()l]t artd Potter, and after ~ lilllliilllll I 1111111111111111 llllllllltlllllilllllllllllllllllll I 1111111111 11111111111 llllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiJIJIJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII!IIIIIIIIf 1111:11111111 111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 I - . - ~ The following comp~ies still have Openin~& remaining •. I ~ ·S-ign-ups wUl be held until company's schedule is full on a ~ = ~ ; first .. come, first serve basis: i § ~ ::;. ,;;;:; i. i -~=~~-- CECOS International - Inteiview date 11/4187, I!S inCH, B I, cs: =-=~ Connecticut Dept. of Transportation- Interview date 1.0/20/87, BS, in CE. ~ ~ § Coro Foundation - Interview date 11/4/87, Any Major. g ; Griffiss 485th Engineering- Interviewing on 10/29/87, BS/II'IS in EE. i ~ James River Grnphks - futerviewing on 11/5!f;7, BS/MS in ME. ; --;=:: The folfilowing codmbpa~iebs w~lll~ave open sign-ups to be held on 10/20/87 on a first- -~== come, 1rst-serve as1s egmmng at 8 am: = =- = == 5 = ~ United States Air Force - Interview date 11/l0/87. ~ = = ! ~ ~ US Department of Energy- Interview date 11/9/87, BS!MS in ME, EE, CE, CS. i 5 **NEW COMPANIES*\' Open sign-ups held 10/27/87 on a first-come first-served ~ -= __ i_=_·. ::ood Capital- Interviewing on 11/13/87. All Majors. , , ~=~~--~ Continental Telephone'\ BS in IE, EC, MN, MT, AM. ~ § ! 9 Ut 0 Iiversity ofConnecticut School of Law will be here on Today, October 29 from I = : · 0 to noon. ;; I Fnrther information on all the above C<Jmpanies and schools is a vailltb1e in the CDC. i ~ . . . ·I 911tlllllllllllllllllllllllllillllltlllllllllllllllllll1111111111111lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll~llllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii1111NIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII1111111111111111111111111111111111lllllllll1 ~ Fall Student Phone-A-Thon Win Up to $300 in Prizes · ~ile Helping Union! Don 1 t Miss It! Where: Hale House When: November 8 & 9 Time: 5 :30 dinner 6:30 calling ' ·Enter Your Team. Pick up forms at College Center l.nform,ation Booth, and send them· to Lamont House! having a remarkably good time at Hickok last year. We opted for Hickok's better r(Joms, eb()osing to overlook its deteriorating condition. The Residence Life promised repairs, and it would he co-ed; so we approached this year with enthusiasm, our expectations have been fulfilled. The girls upstairs, happy ho11rs, the proximity Otf Carnegie, a vic- torious honec()ming float, and Dutchmen \s ncigllt have already made t.his year a booming success. :Ito-we Caverns, a Halloween poarty, and other events pr()lli!!ise nwre fun. Most everyone se~ms to be happy. ''It's as cl11sEb co-()p as you can get,\ says :~~rtm Heck. \How many .people .:an say they know a: everyone intlleir darm,\ says ~ Michael Glo'Wacki. The guys N upstairs :<11!'1!\ enjoying them- S2 selves also, z ;:!: CJ) ~ .~ ~ a. All is nllt. paradise, however. Though the- Jle()ple are great, improvememts promised by Residence life first last fall, then wintell' and spring, and over the s\UQIIler, have barely begun. The .f1rst floor men are proud owrul!!rs ()f new bathroom stalls, asthE·I!ielings, walls, and floors collltmue to rot, showers flood, a11d <Jtller promised improvements are ignored. People m;a~~ ad()rm fun, and in that respect, Hickok excels. ResidencE Life, however, cannot c()ntin11e to overlook and neglect lliek.ok, or it will lose a great asseL · A Blast from the Past: \Life at Eddie's House\ reprinted ·from 10..13-77 issue ()f ·ce~neordiensis Edwards House EJ!l Lenox &ad has built itself q_uite a reputation, and not a very good one at that. Perhaps this can be attributed to the famous Edwards House Fri<lay night parties that begin at 8 and end at 8:30. Or maybe it\s because people fr()m Edw;ards are continually C()mplailling about their aching leg muscles which have been strained 011 tbe long walk to and from Ed'Wards and the main campus. Even though public ()pinion of Edwards is unlike tl!at of the Z()o (fourth floor West) and more like . that ()f an animal n11rsery, it has not discouraged 14 upperclassmen from clloosing to live at ·Edwards House. These 6 women and 8 men chose to live at Edwards because the many a(ivantages oatweigh the fe'W disad- vantages. Edwards House :bas large rooms with paneled walls· and contemporary furn~hing. On the first floor is a large living room with fashi(JnaiJle decor which is ideal for either studying or partying. There is also a kitchenette eq~ipped with a large refrigerator, sink and stove. Als()<,. many believe that Edwards h.as the best washing machine oon i!am:pus. In add:itio11 t() the washing machines fl!ere are 2 Freshman girls whm Vflill wash and dry clothes for IJO cents a load and clean rciooos for one dollar a . shot. Sooq; ih~ il()use will have a game ro.om and bar to ac- centuate :tibe already modern living faciilities on the first floor. Becauste it .b3 on Lenxo Road, Edwards 'lla:s privacy, but this has not Jll\evented residents from tbrnri11g room parties several tiEiles a week. All 14 r.esidents k:now each other; people df Edwards af- fectionatel:y refer to their dorm as Eddie's; Ho11Se. Those who have nno,.ed away from Edwards, B()use and into either fraternitiEs; or off-campus apartmerrts make periodic visits to Edwards and have even had hous:e rEooions. They must feel pridE in tl:leir old house. And sro do the current residents of Edwards have pride in.tl!eir b()use. They keep on Shovmngilp at those Edwards House Friday night parties, which hav-e })eel\ growing larger and notsLer e-vilry week; and they colltilllle walking back and forth to campllS, no longer complai:nin.g qaite so loudly of their aehin.g legs. Have you had three meals today;-? . . ·4 Sign ups Nov. 11 & 12··ox~a.m .. ti Fasting Date Nov. 19 ·A. 1~ \ r.mencat

Page 8 CONClJ.RDIENSfS, October 29, 1987 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES A Farewell to Casablanca .. Union students still uphold some American traditions ... even in ~heir \Yukatas.\ To reach anyone in Japan (not really anyoAe, JUst those of U:S here). Wr.ite c/o Ka11sai Gaidai Office of lnt'l. Studies. 16-1 Kitakatattoko-cho, Hirakata-shi Osaka 5 73, Japan. ~'-'-'-'''\''''\''''-'-'-''-''''-'''''-'''\ ~ International Films ~· :\ \DIVA\ ~ ~ Presentedbythe French Club on Monday, \ ~ Nov. 2 at 7:15 pm in the basement of Webster. ~ ~ Following the film will be a discussion group. \ \ (Refreshments will be served.) ~ ~ ' s; Rio-Beau:ty and Danger ~ ~ Videos fr()m Brazil, Prof. Ester Kosouki ·~ ~ Wednesday, Nov. 4 at 6pm ~ ~ Social Science Building Room 1 05 \ ' ' S International Film Festival ~ ~ Nov. 4 BREATHLESS (1959) Jean-Luc Godard ~ s . .\1 ''-'-'-'-''-''-'-'-'-'-'-''-'-'-'-'-'-'-'-X'-'-'-''-'-'-'-'-~ - -· -~- ?:fie International Students 'Union -Tfr.e Pftifosopliy j\orum and XPrma 'Tegsum CfwCing 'Btuftfliist Center pre.sen.t 'I1ie ve·nera6fe 1\!-npo 5(artfiar 1{impocfie in a pu6Ci(; talK. ·veding witfi- Confusion, '})e.sire anr£ YL-nger· · Tliw\saClJP rYIYll. 12 Cof4ge jluiitorium at 7:30pm a« 'We(come By DANIEL ELKESLASSY Morocco is a North African country the size of California. The biggest city in the country isCasablanea withthree million inhabitants; You have probably heard about it thanks to Humphrey :Bogart and Ingrid Bergman. · Tllis is where I come from. - For many Americans, Morocco isjust another of these Arab countries with deserts, camels, and oiL Well, if you go to Morocco, you will find a lot of sand, you will find many camels, but you Will not find a lot of oil. In fact, you will not find any oil From a political viewpoint, Morocco is one of the last traditional monarchies. 'The country is ruled by King Hassan II, whose family has been in control of the country since 1666. Among all the peculiarities ()f this country, I decided to write on one that seems important to me because I am most concerned by it. Morocco had· and has the biggest Jewish conumfnity of any Arab country: 10,000 people, who represent only 0.03 percent of the total population (30,000,()()()). The origin of this Jewish population is not very clear. Many historians think that this J e:wish settlement appeared at the end of the fifteenth century when, in France and Spain, there was a religious movement to persecute the Jews (the Inquisition). Many Jews crossed th.e Mediterranean Sea to settle in N ()rth Africa, mostly in Morocco and Algeria. Jews integrated themselves into the Muslim population withOut too many pro blerns. The tUl'ning point in the Moroccan-Jewish history was World War II. With this war, two fact<lL\S appeared that would influence the life of any Jew: Nazism and the creation of the state of Israel. When the war began in Western Europe in 1939, Morocco was still a French Colony. A.s France was invaded by Germany, Morocco, con- sidered a part .of France, was rapidly penetrated by German troops in 1940; As in France, the German authorities asked the Moroccan government for the right to e:xile Jews to Germany lHE BIRDS IS COMING Breathless • • • at Union ByAIMESIMON Jean-Luc G()dard's first film \Breathless\(1939) brought the French nouvelle vague (new wave) film technique to the forefront of world cinema. Godard is a social co_m· mentator, and therefore, ~lot is subservient to intellectual exploration in his films. Through innovative editing methods, the narrative format is fragmented and the filtn is able to jump from one scene to another without an obvious transition. GOO.ard's use of a light weight band-held camera adds a jerkiness and sp()n· taneity to the work. Combined, those tecbniqlles aid him in illustrating the randomness and purposelessneils of life. About uareathless, >P he commented, •'What I wanted to do was to depart from the - . i ' cDnventional story, and remake, but differ'ently, everything that had already been done in the cinema. I also wanted to gi.ve the impression of ju.st finding or experiencing the processes of .cinema for tile first time. \Indeed Godard takes the age-old theme of rebelli()n and brings it to the screen in a revolutionary way. \Breathless\ is the story of a love affair set in France bet- ween Jean Seberg, an American expatriate from a wealthy family, and Jean-Paul Belmondo, a gangster rebel. Their romance is doomed from the start as neither can escape , . the influence of society. The r woman is unwilling to per· manently forfeit her safe secure law-abiding way of life, while Jean•Paul continues his reckless criminal lifestyle. Love does not triumph, as one of the pair <lies tragically while the otheT walks · ·a way un- touched. ' 4 Breathless\ for aU its action and motion doesn't reach an eartb shattering climax, or come to a definite conclusion, but rather like a James Joyce story leaves one with a realistic .pervasive sense of despair. ·- ·- 1+1 - where we all know what would have happened to tl.lem. In France, the government ac- cepted, and 90,000 out of 300,000 Jews were deported and killed. The Sultan df Morocco (the actual King's father) refusedto let any Jew le~ve Morocco, and no orie was deported. So, by the end of the war, the Mor(:)ccan Jewish population was estimated to be 300,000. After the war the creation of the state of Israel appeared, and a big Zionist movement influenced the Jews to l~ave the country to settle ~in the new land. This is w}ly between 1948 and 1957, more than 100,000 Jews left the country for Israel. As the situation in the Middle East got worse and worse, a massive amount of Jews, fearing repression, left the country, most of them for. Israel. Today, Moroccan Jews ·are spread an over the world. The biggest eoncentration is found in Pari&, . Montreal and Israel. There are less than-10,000 Jews left in Morocco, and most of them talk about leaving the country to join their relatives who settled a:n over the world. They left, leave, and will leave the country because of the precarious situat-ion in the Middle East and because of the repressionsthat could appear in sueh a context. Nowadays, the King, in a way, protects the Jews. by proclaiming their Moroccan identity and assuring them that notlling will be held against them. But this royal protection could disappear one day, or actions. from outside the country could t>e· organized against Jews. Last year, I read in the New York Times that a Palestinian terrorist com- mando had been arrested. placing a bomb in .a synagogue in. Casablanca during the holiday or Rosh Hashanah. I called may parents to find out what happened, but all they had heard were rumors. Nothing had ~en printed in the local press, probably in order to prevent panic in the Jewish community. The Jews who .still live in Morocco do so for dif- ferent reasons. Some do because they are too poor to leave the country. Others do so because they have a very healthy life and are not in- terested in leaving. In the case of my family, my parents have been speaking about leaving Casablanca . since I was born, but they st~ll ate there. You are probably wondering what it is like for a Jew to live in . an Arab c~untry. Jews are spr.ead i\II'long the Muslim population, and do n()t liVe in separate districts. Most of them speak French and Moroccan and are religious. There are a few rel-igious schools in Casablanca and a dozen synagogues. The life of a Moroccan Jew is almost the same as any Moroccan's life, and the only big, difference I can see is concerning the religious habits. One could think that racism is ,present in such a context. Personally, I have never been involved in any kind of fight based on racism. Often, we can feel some racism but it is not shown obviously .. _ There is even a Jew in . the Moroccan parliament, and many im- portant jobs are held by Jews. PoUticaUy, Morocco has a pacifist attitude towards the Palestinian problem, and last year Israetts Prime Minister, Shimon Peres, visited Morocco. Ev~n if holding an Israeli passport, many Moroccan living in Israelare authorized to come back to visit the country they are from. · So overan, I would say that, with the expl~sive situation in the Middle East, the position of Moroccan Jews is very good, even if so few of them still rern,ain there. People who leave , the country do it becaus~ they fear repressions~ and not because .of them. I love Morocco. It. is lilY C()Untry, my family's coUiltry, the country where I was raised, and where my past lies. But I am pretty sure that when I will finish my studies at Union, I will· not return to live there, because as I tried to explain, it is like an unwritten rule that Jews have to leave Morocco. My parents are probably going to leave the country to settle in Montreal next swnrner. 'But whatever happens, I will never forget Morocco and will always have good memories of the eighteen years that I spent there. \Ohears\ from the term abroad in York, England .. Pictured above: Lori Leon, lan Levin, lisa Marzilli. Joy Runyon. Andy Menzie, Jason Feingold and friends. ' I

' I CONCORDTENSJS, October 29, 1987 .HALLOW.EE:N PARTY AT NI:G;HTSHIFT S~TURDAY NIGHT • PRIZES FOR BEST COSTUMES FREE ADMISSION TO UNION STUDENTS WITH UNION ID ON. FRIDAY AND SATURDAY NIGHT. 1~ North Jay St.•2 Blocks From Union•381-8816 o·ON'T KNOW THE ISSUES? ·LIKE TO KNOW? . NO: TIME TO READ THE NEWS OR TIMES? L~T'S RA~I tC)&:l UNION C:OLLEGE IS SPONSORING ITS FOURTH ANNUAL MINORITY WEEKEND· Page 9 We're people who are interested in what's gojn9 on in the world-· from Judg·e Bark to Gary Hart fro~ Iran to Nicaragua . : And We Need Your Support ISS:U.ES MATTERI Believe it or NOTT, life goes on o tiltside of Union and it affects each and every one of us .. so we might as well be informed. -Motivate and l.et's meet1:onlght at 7:30pm 3rd floor Lounge, Colleg Cer-1ter . If You Are Interested In Hosting A Prospective Student November 12th- November 15th Please Contact: Wanda Torres, Dir. A.O.P. Bailey Hall, Rm 101 370-·6115 UNION COLLE~E · Department of Ph Uosoph~y Colloquium Series ~presents: SCHAFFER LIBRARY WILL CONTINUE ITS SCHEDULE OF MONTHLY BOOK SALES. Professor Richard Taylor_ A book sale·will be held the third Wednesday of each month when the college is in session. Visiting Leavitt-Spetlcer; Professor of Philosophy, Union Qollege on The sale will run from 1 :00 - 4:00 pm for ONE DAY ONLY. \Philosophy Religion! & . ,., ) ,; . ,;~~;e·,~~·~s, .. ,~f. Epig~c,_n·y'_'_ Signs will be posted in the lobby of the library for a few days before the sale . - ·.·.· ·Fnday, October.· 30 · ·.· ... _, - 3:15 p.m. · . Humanities Bldg., 'Am. 21.3 Reception afterward in the Humanities Lounge . • · As a Marine Officer, youcould be in charge of a or jnmior, ask about our Platoon Leaders Class Mach 2 + F I A-18A, a vertical_take-offHarrier or prqgtarn.lf you're a senior, clleck out our Officer one of our other jets or helicopters. And you could Ca11tlidate Class programs. Starting salaries are · do it b~th. e. tim. e you 1 re .. 23. But it takesaspecial frol1l $18,000 to $24,000. Andyou.can \ .. comnutmentonyourpart. We countongomg. . demand. leaders ataUlevels. f:!_O I!_ ~~.'-. ·. . . farther ... faster; · · We teach you to be one. If . U1 ·. .l.lf:l uler... , . you'reafteshman, sophomore, ~ . ,-,... mreJooking/Ora/ewgood men. · .1as.~r. · See Captain Mokan at College· Center:· On Nov. 5 & 6 from: 1 0 a.m. t.t:f3.'r,)~.ffi.~; \:~_· ... ·~·.:,~· .. . , Ot Call. 5J8 438-6963 ,er 1 .. 8 · 08 . \ $1.00 hardcovers · $.50 paperbacks Waiters/Waitresse Needed WORK FOR UNION COLLEGE CATERING SERVICE • On Campus Job •FI·exible Hours •$3.85 per hour •NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY CA.LL .MATT (X4105) FOR MORE INFORMATION ' ..... -

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, October 29, 1_987 <!tDtlOlrbtrnsis Fo~ 111 I imon Coll~t /8('! Represented Last week an editorial entitled \Represented?\ questioned the responsiveness of the Student Forum to student concern and thereby its effectiveness in bringing that concern to the Board of Trustees. The Student Forum has responded to that editorial and Concordiensis welcomes .president Michael Hiller's offer, in conversation with the editors Tuesday night, to work together in a spirit of cooperation. The editors maintain that some disputed points of the editorial are accurate. Student Forum office hours were well publicized early in the year, but not recently, and without consistent publicity most students have probably forgotten them. They are printed below right in Hiller's commentary. Student Forum meetings have not always been open. Returning students may remember that student attendance at meetings last year was discouraged. Former president Steven Moss twice asked this editor to leave meetings while certain issues were discussed; and Forum members often preceded their statements with \This is off the record\ so their comments would not 'llC published. This is a new year, as Hiller said, and meetings are open. His is a new \administration\ and policy is different; anyone can attend meetings and contribute .. The Forum has announced that fact, but we believe that it has not been publilcized enough, and students are still not inclined to attend. Accept the commentary on this page as invitation enough, and attend. We believe that the Trustees did hear student concern to some extent, but not as much as if the Forum had more effectively solicited opinion--not only using open meetings and office hours, but also, for example, by writing letters in this newspaper and by visiting the dorms and talking with freshmen, who are unrepresented for now. The student trustees' response at rigbt states that the Trustees are not interested in the daily operations of the College. The editorial was incorrect in encouraging students to press concerns such as the College Center, the Idol, and periodicals. Those are management matters and should be left to the proper department on campus. The student trustees' response implies that only through the· Administration or the Forum can concerns be voiced. That, we believe; is untrue. Trustee Augusta Schwab, in a letter to Concordiensis after a series of articles on student unhappiness with registration and class size, said \I do subscribe (to Concordiensis) and have been concerned this winter with the amount of student discontent.\ The articles prompted her to meet with President Morris and Vice President D'Andrea and to bring the matter to the Trustees meeting. She concluded by saying \Any constructive criticism is always welcome, and I can assure you that both the Trustees and the Administration are listening.\ Although Augusta Schwab may not speak for all Trustees, letters like hers, and the fact that every Trustee asked to receive Concordiensis, leads us to beleve that the Trustees are concerned with student life and want to be informed. It is that belief that led us to write last week's editorial. The editorial should not have urged students to bring those issues to the Trustees yet; at this point, we should work through normal channels; the Administration and the Forum. Both of those groups should seek out student concern. Concordiensis is also directly informing the Trustees through the newspaper. Although the Administration is the implementing body. the Trustees have indicated that they are concerned with student life and will listen to all sources. They welcome constructive criticism, and both Concordiensis and the Forum should as well. Rush What an appropriate term for the formal sorotiy process of encouraging new members and passing out bids. Rushing, that seems to be exactly what it is. A week of rushing from one house to another, and rushing into a decision that is supposed to be a life long committment. How can people make informed decisions about what sorority is right for them based on several nights of performances staged by the sororities? Sorority sisters themselves have stated that the formal rush is based on superficial circumstances. During rush, complaints are voiced. by the sisters of houses who are up until all hours of the mommg preparing for rush activities, and ccncems are also ~oiced by rushees who find themselves pressured into making these impOrtant decisions ~nder such circumstance:;. Somehow, des~ite these unfavorable crrcumstances, the soronty system at Umon has continued to prosper and even grow. With the addition of a fourth sorority at Union, sororities have become an even more important aspect of the Co~lge and no\:' is the time for the long- considered changes in the system to be unplemented. LETTERs· Stud~nt Forum. Represents . . I! My response to yo11r October 22nd editorial entitled \Represented?\ was one of dismay and concern. The opinion raised the issue of Student Forum accessiblity to the Campus community and painted, in my opinion, a rather -distorted picture of the way things are. I woUld like to take this opportunity to discuss the opinion and specifically the false information which it asserted. The main problem with the opinion was that it made .the claim that the Student Forwn is a very difficult group tcJ com- municate with. It further stated that our meetings ate closed and our office hours are poorly advertised. Nothing could. be farther from the truth. Student Forum meetings ate, and always have been. open to every member of the college. com- munity. This, as well as our office hours, was advertised heavily at the beginning of this academic year, by this • newspaper, at the Student Activities Fair, and through posters on campus. I truly believe that if anyone had wanted to communicate any grievances, he or she cotlld have done so \Vith little effort. Evidence .of this lies in many guest·s that have attended our meetings and v,isits :we've received. during our office hours. Another prohlem with· the editorial was that it asserted that the-~ard of trustees \did not hear a word of student concern ... \ This was very surprising for . me to read considering the Concordieosis has extensively publicized the· Not Memorial report which was presented bY student trustees Mark Webster and Wendy Endress at the trustees meeting. . Furthermore, the other issues such a~ · da~e rape, campus .security and the housing situation ate presently. under consideration by the Student Forum. We have created a sepcial committee to address the problems of rape and sexual assaults on campus. By the end of this week,. after ,several meetings with Dean Mammola, Paul Mantica, Jack HiU and Cliff Wood, we will have arrived at a solution to the worsening _situation regarding the Campus excort senrice. Furthermore, we are presently rese~rchirtg the security problem of the campus as · a whole~ 'thus, to imply that student c~ncern is, by and large, ignored. is com- pletely unsubstantiated and without foundation. Never-theoless, there are concerns we have not been made aware of, but these we mllSt .hear from the campus community. As I stated earlier, all of our meetings (Thursday, r 7:00-9:00. p.m.,· Roorn 409, College Center, except this week's which will be held Sunday at 10:00) are open. Feel free to stop by and speak up. Our office hours are MondayN Thursday, 12:00-4:00 p.m. in Room 301. The Student Forum can be a valuable· resource. Use itt If there is a concern which you feel is not being addressed, stop by or approach us. We're here for you. Sincerely, Michael Hiller Student Forum President Opinions Should Be B~tter ~esearched To the Editor: \That's our right-to have our opinion heard/' was a comment made in last week's editorial R~presented?. Granted, however, opinions as incoherent, unresearclred, and ignorant as those expressed in this editorial are virtually worthless. The editors confused two distinct issues and as a result lost whatever point they were trying to make. A question that. was raised was the ap- parent lack of bringing student concerns to the· attention of the Board of Trustees. Having not been personally interviewed as to why student concerns were not presented to the Board of Trustees meetings, October 10, I assume this is an \' indirect way of searching .for an answer. The trustees· of Union College are men and women who volunteer valuable time to oversee the running of the college. Trustees of any in- stitution hire administrators to do the actual running of the college. The Board of Trustees. is the body which ens'UI\es that Union will exist next year and the year after next. They bire President Morris and the other administrators to actually run Union. Valid, researched suggestions and . criticisms should be broached initially at different level. The Student Affairs Committee, the Student · Grounds Co:nimittee, and the All Leters to the Editor must be typed· double- spaced an~ ·,submit~ed by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses · and phone numbers for verif.ication of the lette.r. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to ·standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily ref.lect the opinions of the editorial . board of Concordiensis Student· Forum are perfect examples of liaisons that have been established for the very purpose of c::ommunicating student concerns to ad- ministrators. Use these or go directly to an administrator if you have a concern. It's part of their job and it's one reason the Board of Trustees hired them. Trustees are not Interested in the daily operations of the campus. They do not travel from their homes four tittles a year to hear \ •.. that we need more periodicals, or anything.\ The Board of Trustees are people who cared about Union or they would not have accepted the position, however, to bring the opinion of every Tom, Dick, or Harry to their attention, as last week's editorial suggests, is foolish and irresponsible. . We believe that the position of Student Trustee was established to ·enable· students to remain informed about th~ long term goals of the Board of Trustees and as a way for student concerns to be voiced when . they felt that every alternative channel had not yielded ail acceptable rel'!ponse. As representatives to the Board of Trustees, we fell con- fident that the. trustee members would recj:liy:t} . ~itlt respect ~nq : concern an · issue that was believed unresolvable at any other level. As Student Forum members we are interested in student concerns and hope that . the Forum be kept in mind as a means to finding answers and resolving tpese concerns. Sincerely, Wendy Endress, . Junior Trustee and Mark Webster, Senior Trustee

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 {llnltfllrbtrnsis Represented Last week an editorial entitled \Represented?\ questioned the responsiveness of the Student Forum to student concern and thereby its effectiveness in bringing that concern to the Board of Trustees. The Student Forum has responded to that editorial and Concordiensis welcomes president Michael Hiller's offer, in conversation with the editors Tuesday night, to work together in a spirit of cooperation. The editors maililtain that some disputed points of the editorial are accurate. Student Forum office hours were weH publicized early in the year, but not recently, and without consistent publicity most students have probably forgotten them. They are printed below right in Hiller's commentary. Student Forum meetings have not always been open. Retllfning students may remember that student attendance at meetings last year was discouraged. Former president Steven Moss twice asked this editor to leave meetings while certain issues were discussed, and Forum members often preceded their statements with \This is off the record\ so their comments would not be published. This is a new year, as Hiller said, and meetings are open. His is a new \administration\ and policy is different; anyone can attend meetings and contribute. The Forum has announced that fact, but we believe that it has not been publilcized enough, and students are still not inclined to attend. Accept the commentary on this page as invitation enough, and attend. We believe that the Trustees did hear student concern to some extent, but not as much as if the Forum had more effectively solicited opinion--not only using open meetings and office hours, but also, for example, by writing letters in this newspaper and by visiting the dorms and talking with freshmen, who are unrepresented for now. The student trustees' response at right states that the Trustees are not interested in the daily operations of the College. The editorial was incorrect in encouraging students to press concerns such as the College Center, the Idol, and periodicals. Those are management matters and should be left to the proper department on campus. The student trustees' response implies that only through the Administration or the Forum can concerns be voiced. That, we believe, is untrue. Trustee Augusta Schwab, in a letter to Concordiensis after a series of articles on student unhappiness with registration and class size, said \I do subscribe (to Concordiensis) and have been concerned this winter with the amount of student discontent.\ The articles prompted her to meet with President Morris and Vice President D'Andrea and to bring the matter to the Trustees meeting. She concluded by saying \Any constructive criticism is always welcome, and I can assure you that both the Trustees and the Administration are listening.\ Although Augusta Schwab may not speak for all Trustees, letters like hers, and the fact that every Trustee asked to receive Concordiensis, leads us to beleve that the Trustees are concerned with student life and want to be informed. It is that belief that led us to write last week's editorial. The editorial should not have urged students to bring those isslles to the Trustees yet; .at this point, we should work through normal channels; the Administration and the Forum. Both of those groups should seek out student concern. Concordiensis is also directly informing the Trustees through the newspaper. Although the Administration is the implementing body, the Trustees have indicated that they are concerned with student life and will listen to all sources. They welcome constructive criticism, and both Concordiensis and the Forum should as well. Rush What an appropriate term for the formal sorotiy process of encouraging new members and passing out bids. Rllshing, that seems to be exactly what it is. A week of rushing from one house to another, and rushing into a decision that is supposed to be a life long committment. How can people make informed decisions about what sorority is right for them based on several nights of performances staged by the sororities? Sorority sisters themselves have stated that the formal rush is based on superficial circumstances. During rush, complaints are voiced. by the sisters of houses who are up until all hours of the mommg preparing for rush activities, and concerns .are also ~oiced by rushees who find themselves pressured mto making these important decisions under such circurnstance.s. Somehow, des~ite these unfavorable circumstances, the soronty system at Umon has continued to prosper and even grow. With the addition of a fourth sorority at Union, sororities have become an even more important aspect of the Collge and no~ is the time for the long- considered changes in the system to be unplemented. LETTERS Student Forum Represents My response to your October 22nd editorial entitled \Represented?\ was one of dismay and concern. The <>pinion raised the issue of .Student Forum accessiblity to 1he Campus community and painted, in my opinion, a rather distorted picture of the way things are. I would like to take this opportunity to discuss the opinion and specifically the false information which it asserted. The main problem with the opinion was that it made the claim that the Student Forum is a very difficult group to com- municate with. It further stated that our meetings are closed and our office hours are poorly advertised. Nothing could be farther from the truth. Student Forum meetings are, and always have been, open to every member of the college com- munity. This, as well as our office hours, was advertised heavily at the beginning of this academic year, by this newspaper, at the Student Activities Fair, and through posters on campus. I truly believe that if anyone had wanted to communicate any grievances, he or she c0uld have done .so with little effort. Evidence of this lies in many guests that have attended ~ur meetings and visits we've received during ou.r office hours. Another probLem with the editorial was that it asserted that the board of trustees \did not hear a worcl of student concern ... \ This was very surprising for me to read considering the Coueordiensis has extensively publicized the Not Memorial report which was presented by student trustees Mark Webster and Wendy Endress at tl:u trustees meeting. Furthermore, the other issues such as date ra!)e, campus security and the housing situatiolil are presently under consideration by tlle Student Forwn. We have created a sepcial committee to address the problems of ra]Je and sexual assaults on campus_ By the end of this week,. after several meetings with I>ea!l Mammola, Paul Mantica, Jack Hill and CliffWood, we wi1lllave arrived at a solution to the worsenrng situation regarding the Campus excort service. Furthermore, we are presently researching the security problem of the campus as a whole. Thus, to imply that student concern is, by and large, ignored is com- pl,etely unsubstantiated and without f~undation. Never-the-less, there are concerns we have not been made aware of, but these we must hear from the campus conunu.nity. As I stated earlier, all of our meetings (Thursday, 7:00·9': 00 p.m., Ro~:nn 409, College Center, except this week's which wiU be held Sunday at 10:00) are open. Feel free to stop by and speak up. Our office hours are Monday- Thursday, 12:00-4:00 p.m. in Roo:m 301. The Student Forwn can be a valuable resource. Use it! If there is a concern which you feel is not being addressed, stop by or approach us. We're here for y(}u. Sincerely, Michael Hiller Student Forwn President Opinions Should Be Better Researched To the Editor: \That's our right-to have our opinion heard,\ was a comment made in last week's editorial Represented?. Granted, however, opinions as incoherent, unresearch~d, and ignorant as those expressed in this editorial are virtually worthless. The editors confused two distinct issues and as a result lost whatever point they were trying to make. A question that was raised was the ap- parent lack of bringing student concerns to the attention of the Board of Trustees. Having not been personally interviewed as to why student concerns were not presented to the Board of Trustees meetings, October 10, I assume this is an ·~ indirect way of searching for an answer. The trustees of Union College are men and women who volunteer valuable time to oversee the running of the college. Trustees of any in- stitution hire administrators to do the actual running of the college. The Board of Trustees is the body which ensures that Union will exist next year and the year after next. They hire President Morris and the other administrators to actually run Union. Valid, researched suggestions and criticisms should be broached initially at different level. The Student Affairs Gommittee, the Student Grounds Committee, and the All Leters to the Editor must be typed double- spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. AU letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names nmmally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial board of Concordiensis Student Forwn <tre perfect examples of liaiso11s that have been established for the very purpose of <:ommwricating student concerns to ad- ministrators. Use these or go directly to an administrator if you have a concern. It's part of their job and it's one reason the Board of Trustees hired them. Trustees are not i11terested in the daily operati()ns of the campus. They do not travel from their homes four times a year to hear \ . . . that we need more periodicals, or anything.\ The Board of Trustees are people who cared about Union or they would not llave accepted the position, h()wever, to bring the opinion of every Tom, Dick, ()r Harry to their attention, as last week's editl>rial suggests, is foolish and irresj)onsible. We believe that the position of Student Tmstee was established to enable students to remain informed about the long terrn goals of the Board of Trustees and as a way for student concerns to be voiced when they felt that every alternative channel had not yielded an acceptable response. As representatives to the Board of Trustees, we fell con- fident that the trustee members would receive with respect and concern an issue that was believed unresolvable at any other level. As Student Forum members we are interested in student concerns and hope that the Forum be kept in mind as a means to finding answers and resolving these concerns. Sincerely, Wendy Endress, Junior Trustee and Mark Webster, Senior Trustee . lktitots~1n-Cltief t . C!(»#,,~)\(··r-\\''''.1 £'\\;.:n:~, . r .,. ... \'~\\s. ~t<\\'\ldt ...... ., ...... y~.,en ~ .t'!l.ll£1. W:tflU:. · Fi9~~~~··~dWJd~6en M.atl®e itaftlll~ Cathy l\tta.tkes~ . .. ... w~ay~~nn<m: News Editors Features EdltQI'$ ;- ~;·· .. International Feati!res Editor ··Science :&rul)t · · · · Cornnientacy tag_~£ditor Jms·Ediwrs Campus Page Editors Spotts Ediwr~ - Advemsmg Editoos Assisbl.ttt Advettis:tng Editors Business~rugm . Ph6to.J3dltot :, .•. . L > Substtti\'rtion:'Editot . IJ¢~~Fa¢~ll1AchrisQr - Oaey S~inbarun ·.· 1tmfiifet K:9ve . sroa.tt san.& ·· Jitti.Jv.f:acLaughllrl. J'an Gbldsteitl· · ; ·'Ath.enaLing~KelleyPa:rk Chris Hinckley:, A.ndrew:Mill«t Jacki BeR;.·Li$aOJ;dower. ·. ,t;!SaiJ.n>'Wll,lleth.Tumq Beth (.l~odsmitb.•&obin Jaccib~on. . . \\ ; R~S:mith : .··;j!~~llw~ · c~w1~am1tuntt 61 ·,.,'f .. ·:_:~:;. ~Ki.:~ ·;. ·

CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 Page l1 COMMENT ARIES Concordiensis asks. How Is Gel-Time Going So Far? Ed, Note: Concordiemsis asked a number of faculty member for their opinions on Gel-Time. While it is too ·early to dl\aw far- reaching t!onclusio11s, '· we wanted to get an idea l()f some first impressions. By L.A. HULL Depa~entofCbe~~ The course I am presently teaching, ·Organic Cll.emistry (Chern 30-32, section 2) went from the MTThF seq11.ence to the TTh (AM) ti.tne per-iod and therefore underwent- a fairly drastic jodification of presentation format. What do i hink of Gel Time, thus far? It is too soon to draw any final con elusions but soJar I personally like the system. There is a more relaxed at- mosphere in the exclusl-ve cl~~s . Tuesgay and Thursd~~:y mor- nings.. There is no ~lass im- mediately before or after and this reduces the feeling of having to rush in and CJut on a the next class. The longer period. has also allowed me to develop a topic · and then immediately follow it with examples drawn £rom. the bomewor:k. I .had h<>ped the ·immediacy .of the examples would increase the e£- . fectiveness of the presentation. At this point I only have exams as a measure of effectiveness and by that measure there· has been little change from previous years. postulating on the wonders of Organic Chemistry I recognize (albeit with a certain amount of regret) that my students may not share my enthllsiasm (or fortitude). As a result I have tried to change my nearly ex- clusive lecture style of presentation to one in which there is more. of a mix of lecture and problem discussion. Also, there is a five minute break about hal,:way through the class ·after which .I try ~nd change pace ~ going from lecture to problems or vice versa. . rigid schedule. RIUinii'lg over five minutes does er.eate the S81Jle panic it has in previous years. (The panic after loo minutes now is; Will he ever stop?) In addition, because there are 'days off' between classes, I find that 1 c~n more efficiently manage my time. I am not constantly preparing for Has it ·been effective in .reaching ally of its objectives? I think one of'its objectives was to do precisely what I l!ave just commented on, narnely to decrease the hectic feeling one got under our previous system. Another, possibly anspoken, objective was to abolish the two weekend week (Tuesday night party time). At that, the schedule has been a miserable failure since now a significant number of students have two free days a week. Unfcrtunately you can't have it both ways because rryou want to reduce the hectic nature .of the previous schedule you need to introduce more_ breathing space. How bas Gel Time affected your own teaching. methods and style? As a consequence of the change the course I teach went from 50 minute clas~es to 100 minute classes. While I could certainly go on for hours ex· There are some awkward aspects to the schedule. I like to give a relatively large nwnber of e~s (four) during the term so that each exam doesn't cover too much material but I don't want to take up .four .100 minute classes. The solution has been to give a 5() minute exam and then follow it with a 5() minute class. While this isn't a poor arrangement it is somewhat awkward. In addition because we meet only twice a week there are fewer meetings between exams. I recognize that the class time between exams is the same as the previous schedule but the fewer meetings give a feeling of reduced contact. L.A. Hull is a Professor of Chemistry. • By PETER A. PROSPER, JR. Deparbnentof~c~~~~ This is in response to your query regarding Gel 'rime and its impact thus far. My com- ment is that it is simply too early to tell very mttch at aU about the: new system of class hours. This term I am teaching on the MONDAY, Wednesday and Friday schedule, a11d not at all on the Tuesday, '[1hursday pattern. I do not yet have suf- ficient evidence to come to any substantial conclusio11s. Thus far in the term the students, and I to an extent, have a little / difficulty in adjusting to the longer class hour, that is fl\om fifty minutes to sixty-five. Union C()llege students are adaptable, and I am sure they will adapt to the new schedule. As for myself, I had been tea~hing ,(with a few ex ... ceptions) fifty-minute classes · for some twenty-eight years, and my internal clock could tell when fifty minutes elapsed, and in fact it still does, but now I have an additional fifteen minutes of class. This is not a problem at all since I simply continue with the material in the course. I am sure that my internal clock willadmust to the sixty-five minute period as well. I have given one examination so far, and from all indications, Gel Time has not adversely affected the amount of material ~udent.s learn or how they learn It. Concerning the objectives of Gel Time, I reiterate that it is just too early to evaluate Gel Time relative to its objectives. It hay not altered my style or method. of teaching. · Peter A. Prosper is a Professor and chairman of the Economics Department. WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Preregistration rnaterials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form,\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday Oct. 30. Students should review the cours~ listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for srodents to have additional choices in mind in case one of their .first three choices becomes unavailable. TO PREREGISTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRAION FORM. IF THEIR AJ)V[SER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISE~'S DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available ortly with the permission .of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated ·On the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments· on Wed. Nov 4. Students should sign tbese lists to indicate an inteieSt and then should return to the departments on Fri. Nov. 6 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the departmenL In order to pick up a card you must have your preregistration form with you to be stamped by the department. You are poennitted to pick up no more tllart. three (3) cards. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWEDTO PREREG1STER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD_.THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study or research requires completion of a form whicl} is available in the Registrar's Office. It m11st be signed by the supervisi11g faculty member and his/her chairperson. The date and time for eacl1 student's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the \Preregistratiorr Course Request Form.'' Students may not preregister prior to tlleir assigned time. Pregregistration will conclude on Fri. Nov 13. Additional course changes may next be made during the: Drop/ Add period at the start of the winterterm. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at ,fue time printed <>n their \Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this fonn, filled out AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be pl'Qught to preregistraiton). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed._if one or m9re courses a~e closed, they should.- select new ones and correct their preregistrati<>n fonn. Then. they should see a staff member who will preregister them. '• Students wh.o .llo not plan to return to Union for the winter tenn, except graduating seniors •• must give n()ti<Je of their p1aQS to .the D~an of StudeJl!s. Potential December or March graduates sh.ollld infonn the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the falltlr winter renns. By CHRISTIE SORUM Department ofClassics I was pleasedto receive your request for opinions on Gel~ Time. It is seldom that I have completely unambiguous response to anything; to Gel Time I do. It is the best thing that has happened to education at Union- atleast, in my classes - since I arrived six years ago. In Freshman Preceptorial, the students are actually able to finish the reading assignments before class, we have enough time during class to do both in- . class writing and discuss the texts, and I am better prepared when I walk in. In Beginning Greek and Latin, we are able to complete a lesson each class, the schedule for which all the beginning books are designed and which was impossible on the previous schedtae because the students did not have By JORDAN S~ITH Department of English It seems too early to make · any judgments about the effects of Gel Time tOn student work habits. I am teaching two courses on the M-W-F schedule• FPlO, formerly a four day week . class, and Creative Writing I, · formerly a two day a week class. I'd say that both classes benefit from the schedule change. The pace in FPlO seems better; lhave more time for preparations and more time in class to draw connections enough time between classes to learn the Jesson. Consequently, we will actually be able to complete more lessons under Gel Time and to come closer to what we profess to do - teach a semester's worth of language in a term. Furthermore, several students have mentioned to me that they are able to do more work because their tim is less fragmented. I know that there a few courses - beginning modern foreign languages, for example - for which it can be demon- strated that a Gel Time schedule is pedagogically un- sound. It is important to try to devise a method to meet the particular demands imposed by these courses. Many other colleges have found solutions; I am sure we can. Christine Sorum is a Professor of Classics, and Chairman of the Department. between the texts, while the students seem less rushed. The Creative Writing class is covering more ground more quickly, perhaps because theM- W -F schedule makes it easier to integrate the several elements of that class - discussions of student work, discussions of contemporary writing, visits by writers, instruction in technique. If the purpose of the . new schedule was to set a more efficient pace of instruction, then the schedule seems to be working, at least in these classes. Jordan Smith is a Professor of English. LETTERS No Butts About It To the Editor: In the wake of last week's very successful James Taylor show, I would like to put the spotlight in a few important places it did not reach Saturday night. First, the Concert Committee would like to thank Mrs. Marra and Mr. Dennis Madden for giving us advice when we needed it and for giving us enough rope when we didn't. Second, the great bunch that worked the security and usher detail deserve a round of a}h plause for making us all look good, especially · Jeff \Freebase\ Carstens, Bob \I Told You Not To Do That\ Goldstein 'and the crew that pulled Truck Duty. Finally, I would like to offer mildly surprised gratitude to the College at large, for proving that we do get off our collective butts once in a while and make something happen. The entire Union College community made the James Taylor show a success; hats off to us. Pants, . too! Sincerely, Ian Cooke Concert Comm. Chair Uses for the Nott To the Editor: The Restoration of the Nott Memorial was a student con- cern that went before the Board of Trustees With the support of the Student ·Fotmn which I initiated. The report that was presented to the Trustees has been the basis of two articles in the Concordiensis these past weeks including pictures and information from that report. I am conti11uing to spearhead this concern of students. I have . met with President Morris and have learned what the students can do to expedite the restoration process. What I need from yo11, the students and readers of the Coacordiensis, is to please send me your concerns and comments on possible uses for the restored Nott Memorial, solutions to the theater problem (where to locate it? Do we build a new one? Where do we have a temporary theater while the Nott is being restored? etc.)~ fundraising, and the restoratio11 itself. Please send these con- cerns and comments to Keitb Bemis, Box 184 (386-4060). With your help, we can ex- pedite the process of restoring the Nott Memorial. Sincerely, KeithO. Bemis Sophomore Class Rep. Student Forum Rrtiflcal Intelligence On Tuesday, November 3, at 11:00 AM in room 102, Neil Mazur, of the Electrical Engineering Computer Science Department, will give a t~lk on traditional Artifi~ial Intelligence and Neural Networks.

. CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 Page 11 COMMENT ARIES Concordiensis asks. • • How Is Gel-Time Going So Far? Ed. Note: Concordiensis asked a number of faculty member for their opinions on Gel-'fime. While it is too early to draw far- reaching conclusions, we wanted to get an idea of some first impressions. By L.A. HULL DeparhnentofChemisrry The course I am presently teaching, Organic Chemistry (Chern 30-32, section 2) went from the MTThF sequence to the TTh (AM) time period and therefore underwent a fairly drastic jodification of presentatioB format. What do I hink. of Gel 1'ime, thus far? It is too soon to draw any final conclusions but so far I personally like the system. There is a more relaxed at- mosphere in the exclusive class Tuesday and Thursday mor- nings. There is no class im- mediately before or after and this reduces the feeling of having to rush in and out on a rigid schedule. Running over five minutes does create the same panic it has in previous years. (The panic after loo minutes now is; Will he ever stop?) In addition, because there are 'days off' between classes, I find that I can more efficiently manage my time. I am not constantly preparing for By PETER A. PROSPER, JR. Department of Econo~~_«:_:s This is in response to your query regarding Gel Time and its impact thus far. My com- ment is that it is simply too early to tell very much at all about the new system of class hours. This term I am teaching on the MONDAY, Wednesday and Friday schedule, and not at all on the Tuesday, Thursday pattern. I do not yet have suf- ficient evidence to come to any substantial conclusions. Thus far in the term the students, and I to an extent, have a little the next class. The longer period has also allowed me t@ develop a topic and then immediately follow it with examples drawn from the homework. I had hoped the immediacy of the examples would increase the ef- fectiveness of the presentation. At this point I only have exams as a measure of effectiveness and by that measure there has been little change from previous years. Has it been effective in reaching any of its objectives? I think one of its objectives was to do precisely what I have just commented on, namely to decrease the hectic feeling one got under our previous system. Another, possibly unspoken, objective was to abolish the two weekend week (Tuesday night party time). At that, the schedule has been a miserable failure since now a significant number of students have two free days a week. Unfortunately you can't have it both ways because if you want to reduce the hectic nature of the previous schedule you need to introduce more. breathing space. How has Gel Time affected your own teaching methods and style? As a consequence of the change the course I teach went from 50 minute classes to 100 minute classes. While I could certainly go on for hours ex- difficulty in adjusting to the longer class hour, that is from fifty minutes to sixty-five. Union College students are adaptable, and I am sure they will adapt to the new schedule. As for myself, I had been teaching (with a few ex- ceptions) fifty-minute classes for some twenty-eight years, and my internal clock could tell when fifty minutes elapsed, and in fact it still does, but now I have an additional fifteen minutes of class. This is not a problem at all since I simply continue with the material in the course. I am sure that my postulating on the wonders of Organic Chemistry I recognize (albeit with a certain amount of regret) that my st1:1dents may not share my enthusiasm (or fortitude). As a result I have tried to change my nearly ex- clusive lecture style of presentation to one in wHich there is more of a mix of lecture and problem discussion. Also, there is a five minute break about halfway through the class after which I try and change pace - going fram lecture to problems or vice versa. There are some awkward aspects to the schedule. I like to give a relatively large number of exams (four) during the term so that each exam doesn't cover too much material but I don't want to take up four 100 minute classes. The solution has been to give a 50 minute exam and then follow it with a 50 minute class. While this isn't a poor arrangement it is somewhat awkward. In addition because we meet only twice a week there are fewer meetings between exams. I recognize that the class time between exams is the same as the previous schedule but the fewer meetings give a feeling of reduced contact. L.A. Hull is a Professor of Chemistry. internal clock willad.must to the sixty-five minute period as well. I have given one examination so far, and from all indications, Gel Time has not adversely affected the amount of material students learn or how they learn it. Concerning the objectives of Gel Time, I reiterate that it is just too early to evaluate Gel Time relative to its objectives. It hay not altered my style or method of teaching. Peter A. Prosper is a Professor and chairman of the Economics Department. WINTER TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Preregistration materials (the \Preregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday Oct. 30. Students should review the course listing, consult with their advisers, and select the courses they wish. It would be advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in case one of their first three choices becomes unavailable. TO PREREGISTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PREREGISTRAION FORM. IF THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISER'S DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wed. Nov 4. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should return to the departments on Fri. Nov. 6 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card you must have your preregistration form with you to be .stamped by the deparnnent. You are poermitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WlTHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Preregistration for an independent study or research requires completion of a fonn which is available in the Registrar's Office. It must be signed by the supervising faculty member and his/her chairperson. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the \Preregistration Course Request Form.\ Students may not preregister prior to their assigned time. Pregregistration will conclude on Fri. Nov 13. Additional course changes may next be made during the Drop/ Add period at the start of the winter tenn. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed -on their \Preregistration Course Request Fonn\ (this fonn, filled out AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be brought to preregistraiton). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire are not closed. if one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration fonn. Then, they should see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do Jil.Ot plan to return to Union for the winter tenn, except graduating seniors,. must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potential December or March graduates should infonn the Office of the Registrar of their plans to finish their studies at the end of the fall or winter tenns. By CHRIS!'IE SORUM Department of Classics I was pleased to receive your request for ()pinions on Gel- Time. It is sELdom that I have completely unambiguous response to anything; to Gel Time I do. It is the best thing that has happened to education at Union- at least, in my classes - since I arrivetl. six years ago. In Freshman Freceptorial, the students are actually able to finish the reading assignments before class, we have enough time during class to do both in- class writing and discuss the texts, and I am better prepared when I walk in. ln Beginning Greek and Latin, we are able to complete a lesson each class, the schedule for which all the beginning bo()ks are designed and which was impossible on the previous schedule bee a use the students did Rot have By JORDAN SMITH Department of English It seems too early to make any judgments about the effects of Gel Time on student work habits. I am teaching two courses on the M-W-F schedule: FPlO, formerly a four day week class, and Creative Writing I, formerly a lwo day a week class. I'd say that both classes benefit frorn the schedule change. The pace in FPlO seems better; I have more time for preparatiO<ns and more time in class to draw connections enough time between classes to learn the lesson. Consequently, we will actually be able to complete more lessons under Gel Time and to come closer to what we profess to do - teach a semester's worth of language in a term. Furthermore, several students have mentioned to me that they are able to do more work because their tim is less fragmented. I know that there a few courses - beginning modern foreign languages, for example - for which it can be demon- strated that a Gel Time schedule is pedagogically un- sound. It is important to try to devise a method to neet the particular demands imposed by these courses. Many other colleges have found solutions; I an sure we can. Christine Sorum is a Professor of Classics, and Chairman of the Department. between the texts, while the students seem less rushed. The Creative Writing class is covering more ground more quickly, perhaps because theM- W-F schedule makes it easier to integrate the several elements of that class - discussions of student work, discussions of contemporary writing, visits by writers, instruction in technique. If the purpose of the new schedule was to set a more efficient pace of instruction, then the schedule seems to be working, at least in these classes. Jordan Smith is a Professor of English. LETTERS No Butts About It To the Editor: In the wake of last week's very successful James Taylor show, I would like to put the spotlight in a few important places it did nut reach Saturday night. First, the Concert Committee would like to thank Mrs. Marra and Mr. Dennis Madden for giving us a<lvice when we needed it an.d for giving us enough rope when we didn't. Second, the great bunch that worked the security and usher detail desel\Ve a round of ap- plause for making us all look good, especially Jeff \Freebase\ Carstens, Bob \I Told You Not To Do That\ Goldstein and the crew that pulled Truck Duty. Finally, I would like to offer mildly surprised gratitude to the College at large, for proving that we do get off our collective butts once in a while and make something happen. The entire Union College community made the James Taylor show a success; hats off to us. Pants, too! Sincerely, Ian Cooke Concert Comm. Chair Uses for the Nott To the Editor: The Restoration of the N ott Memorial was a student con- cern that went before the Board of Trustees with the support of the Student Forum which I initiated. The report that was presented to the Trustees has been the basis of two articles in the Concorlliensis these past weeks including pictures and information from that report. I am continaing to spearhead this concern of students. I have met with President Morris and have learned what the students can do to expedite the restoration process. What I need from you, the students and readers of tile Concordiensis, is to please send me your concerns and comments on possible uses for the restored Nott Memorial, solutions to the theater problem (where to locate it? Do we build a new one? Where do we have a temporary theater while the N ott is being restored? etc. ) , fundraising, and the restoration itself. Please send these con- cerns and comments to Keith Bemis, Box 184 ( 386-4060). With your help, we can ex- pedite the process of restoring the Nott Memorial. Sincerely, Keith 0. Bemis Sophomore Class Rep. Student Forwn Rrtificol Intelligence On Tuesday, November 3, at 11:00 AM in roorn 102, Neil Mazur, of the Electrical Engineering Computer Science Department, will give a talk on traditional Artificial Intelligence and Neural Networks.

i' . ,, .~:. t· FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE - . --- . Fall Term 1987-88 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the el\am time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar not later than November 13, 1987. Examinations will be held h1 the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ( AB -Arts Building BH - Bailey Hall BU - Butterfield Hall HI) - Hurnanities Building N - Nortl;t Wing; S/E Center PY- Psychology Building SS - Social Science Building SH- Steinmetz Hall MONDAY. NOVEMBER 30-8:30-10:30 ARS 13 - Introduction to Visual Arts - D. Robbins - AB 215 BIO 53- Forests of the Northeast- P. Tobiessen ... N 016 CLS 21 -History of Greece- J. Mmncola- HU 019 CSC 11- Programming For Soc. Sdences- J.Castleberry- N 014 ECO 42- Macroeconomic Theory.£ Policy- L. McCarthy- ss 014 BGL 19- Major English Authors I ·A. Scon .. HU 114 · EGL 23 - The American Short Story -F. Gado - HU 112 EGL 42- Humanities: The Origins- P. Heinegg- HU 115 ESC 20::. Mechanics II- D. Bunk- N 210 :MER 30 - Dynamics of Linear Systems - M .. Rivera - N 222 MTH 146 - Advanced. Calculus I - A. Seiken - BH 207 PHY 13 - Introduction to Physics II Sec. 2 • R. MagahiZ - N 012 PHY 14- Elements of Modem Physics- G. Reich - BU 106 PSC 51- American Foreign Polilcy- D. Clinton- SS 103 PSY 10 - A First Course in .Psychology Sec. 4 - B. Moore - SS 104 PSY 20 - Statistical Methods in Psycho!. - ;K. DeBono - PY 113 PSY 38- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PY 102 SOC 136 -Wealth and Poverty in America· J. Hartman - SS 110 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 30- 11:15-1~15 ANT 11 - Comparing Cultures thru Film - G. Gmelch - SS 103 ECO 12 - Introduction to Economics Sec. 7 - L. Cavalluzzo - SS 112 MTII 132 - Abstract Algebra I - W. Fairchild- BH 108 PSY 15 - Intro. to Experimental Psychol. - H. Foley - PY 213 RUS 10 - Basic Russian I · Sec. 1 - N. Jernakoff- HU 110 Sec. 2 - S. Hash - HU 116 SPN 133 - Mastering Written Spanish Sec. 1 - R. Vinick - HU 112 Sec. 2 - C. Qualtere - HU 114 MONDAY. NOVEMBER 30-2:00-4:00 ECO 12 .. IntrOduGtion to Evonomics . gee. 2- T. MtC$U'ty- HU 019 Sec. 3 • T. McCarty - HU 019 Sec. 4- J. Kenney- SS 016 Sec. 8 - J. Kenney - SS 016 TQESDAY. DECEMBER I- .8:30-10:30 BIO 16 -Introduction to Biology I- P. Tobiessen- SS 016 CHM 10 - Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1- T. Werner- BU'204 Sec. 2 - J. Anderson- BU 204 Sec. 3 - C. Scaife - BU 204 Sec. 4- C. Weick- BU 204 See. S - C. Scaife - BU 204 Sec. 6 -C. Weick- BU 204 CHM 40- Quantitative Chemistry- R. Schaefer- N 016 ECO 31 .. Microeconomic Analysis Sec. 2- L. Sage- HU 114 ECO 32 .. Labor & Industrial Relations~ P. Prosper~ SS 112 Tir-tT ....,..... \\..r~~-- A-rnn-:nnn A nThni\C1 l:i f1.*:lr1n - m T 11 ~ \ MTH 40- Appllied Linear Algebra- J. Hefferon- BH 207 MTH 100- Orthogonal Functions- T. Bick- BH 102 MTH 101- Advanced Calculus for Engrs.- Barbanel, Rosenthal~ BH 104 PHL 15 -Philo & Existential Literature - L. Patrick - HU 110 PSC 21 - Quant. Meth. of Social Research- I. Kaplan - SS 112 PSC 169 - Seminar: American Politics - T. Holbrook- SS 110 PSY 24- Social Psychology- D. Marier- PY 102 PSY 62- Practicum in Human Relations I- J. Girdner- PY 204 SOC 24- Social Psychology- D. Morier- PY 102 SOC 60 - Quant. Meth. of Social Reserarch - I. 1 Kaplan - SS 112 STA 10- Introduction to Statistics- D. Holmes- BH 203 STA 110- Intra. to Statistical Methods I.- J. Schmee- BH 108 WEDNESDAY. DECEMBER 2- 11:15-1:15 ECO 12 ~ Introduction to Economics Sec. 5- T. Kershner- SS 103 HST 65 -East Asian Civilization-S. Leiba- SS 104 PHL 30 • Greek Philosophy - C. Gould - HY 116 PSY 30- Personality- D. Spring- PY 102 SOC 39 - Sociology of the Family - I. Kaplan - SS 112 WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 2 - 2:00-4:00 EER 33 - Elect. Circ. Analylsis & Design, Sec. 1 & 2 - E. Hassib - B 207 PHY 11 - Introduction to Physics I ·, · Sec. 1 - Patton Hall ~ SS 016 Sec. 2- Schick- SS 016 Sec. 3- Malecki- BU 204 Sec. 4 -Johnson - BU 204 THURSDAY, DECEMBER 3-8:30-10:30 BIO 23- Cell Biology- F. Lambert- SS 016 . . BIO 32 a Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy- G. Butterstein .- SS 014 BI 0 147 - Immunology - T. Styles- BH 205 CHM 152 - Physical Chemistry - D. Hayes - BU 106 CSC 37 - Structured Programming - D. Hannay • N 014 ECO 20 - Intro. To Statistic~l A.t.1alysis - S. Schmidt~ SS 112 ECO 31- Mictoeconoruie Analysis Sec. 1 - L. S&ge - SS 012 EGL 26 - Tragedy - P. Heinegg - HU 019 ESC 30 - Mechanics of Deformable Solids- A. Burke- Sec. 2 - N 222 ESC 42- Signals & Systems- E. Craig- BH 201 FRN 12 - Intermediate French ·· Sec. 1 - C. Laparra • HU 110 Sec. 2- S. Hash- HU 114 GEO 10 - Physical Geology - K. Hollocher - BU 300 GER 12- Intermediate German-S. Kellenter- HU 116 GRK 10- Principles of Greek I-S. Sorum- HU 119 HST 50- Western Imperialism -E. Hansen - SS 104 MTH 18 - Intro. to Logic and Set Th~ory - Sec. 1 ~ A. Taylor - BH 108 PHL ll - Philosophic'~! <;;l~::~sics - <;, Qguld - HU 112 PSC 11 - Comemvor91'Y ArnertcHU FolilticS Sec. 2 - L Miller - SS 103 PSY 10- A First Course in Psychology Sec. 3 - D. Marier - PY 102 , _ PSY 32 .. Sensation and Perception - H. Foley - PY 113 SPN 10- Basic Spanish I- P. Moyano- HU 117· THURSDAY .. DECEMBER 3- 11:15-1:15. · CHM 118 - Inorganic Chemistry II - D .. Weick - N 016 MTH 10 - Calculus I Sec. 1- J. Barbanel- HU 019 · Sec. 2 - E. Gillette - ~H 104 Sec. 3- J. Barbanel- HU 019 Sec. 4 - K. Rosenthal - SS 016 Sec. 5 - A. Prindle- BU 106 Sec. 6- K. Rosenthal- SS 016 Sec. 7 - M. Frame - BU 109 MTH 13 .. AP Calculus Sec. 1 - J. Muckenfuss - BH 106 '· ·- I ~ (JQ ~ ~ N

See. 5 - C. Scaife - BU 204 Sec. 6 - C. Weick- BU 204 CHM 40- Quantitative Chemistry- R. Schaefer- N 016 ECO 31 .. Microeconomic Analysis Sec. :2 - L. Sage - HU -114 ECO 32 .. Labor & Industrial Relations ~· P. Prosper ~ SS 112 EGL 22 - Major American Authors -F. Gado - HU 115 ESC 10- Mechanics • M. Mafi • BU 109 ESC 22 M Science of Engine Materials - F. Milillo - N 210 ESC 26 - Thermodynamics Sec. 1 - J. Shanebrook • N 222 BSC 30 - Mechanics of Deformable Solids Sec. 1 - P. Weiss .. BU 300 OBR 1 () - :Sas~c German I Sec. 1 - S. Kellenter - HU 116 Sec. 2- D\'Lund- HU 112 HST 13 -History ofU.S. To Civil Wax- R. Wells - SS 104 HST 43 - Europe In The Early Modem Era- E. Hansen - SS 103 LAT lO -Principles of Latin I~ J. Marincola • SS 110 1>11\\ 1g- Introduction to Physics IT, Sec. 1 - P. Titu§- N 012 PHY 50- Electronic CircuitS- Baksay- N 116 PSC 11 .. Contemporary American Politics Sec. 1 - C. Tidmarch - SS 012 . PSC 112 - Contemporary International Politics Sec. 1 - J. C. Laursen - HU 014 PSY 10 - A First Course in Psychology Sec. 1 - L. Stanhope - PY 113 Sec. 2- R. Nydegger- PY 102 SOC 10- Introduction to Sociology- J. Hartman, Se~. 1 - SS 014 SPN 12 - Intermediate Spanish - R. Vlinick - H1J 110 . WEDNESDAY DECEMBERl-11:15,.1:15 ARS 70 -European Art: 1640 to 1850 -D. Robbins - AR 215 CSC 12- Programming For Natrl. Sciences- L. Almstead- N 014 ECO 12 - Introduction To Economics Sec. 6 - L. Cavalluzzo - SS 112 ECO 145- Managerial Economies- J. Kenney- SS 104 ELL 33 ·Energy I· W. Aubrey- BU 109 FRN 10 - Basic French I · Sec. 1 - L, Day ~ IIU 110 Sec. 2 .. c. Laparra.., HU 111 MTH lB - Intro. to Logic and Set Theory Sec. 2 W. Zwicker- BH 205 PHL 20 - Classical Logic - S. Kaminsky - HU 115 PSY 10 - A First Course in Psychology Sec. 5 - G. Atlas - PY 113 Sv~. ~ - B, Moore- J>V 10~ RUS 133 - Intermediate Russian II - N. Jemakoff- HU 112 SPN 132. - Intro. To Spanish Literature Sec. 1 - P. Moyano - HU 116 Sec. 2 - C. Qualtere - HU 114 TQESDAY. DECEMBER 2-8:30-10:30 AMS 175- Seminar: American Politics- T. Holbrook- SS 110 BIO 51 -Ecology - C. George - BH 205 BIO 96 - Sex & Sexuality - L. Lambert- SS 016 BIO 180- Biochemistry- H. Birecka- BU 109 ECO 34- Intro. to Financial Analysis- E. D. Phaup- SS 103 ECO 138- Quantitative Methods in Eco.- E. Motahar- SS 012 EGL 63 - Early Romantic Literature - H. Freund - HU 117 ESC 26 - Thermodynamics Sec. 2 - G. Ketchum - N 222 GEO 11 - Historical Geology- P. Ryberg • BU 201 HST 22- Civil Wax and Reconstruction- F. Dudden- SS 104 HST 63 - Caribbean & Central Amer. Histr. - T. Meade- SS 014 MER 150- Heat Trtansf. Analysis & Design- R. Ranganathan- BU 300 ... \ Sec. 3- J. Baxbanel- HU 019 Sec. 4 - K. Rosenthal - SS 016 Sec. 5- A. Prindle- BU 106 Sec. 6- K. Rosenthal- SS 016 Sec. ? - M. Pram~ - BU 109 MTH 13 .. AP Calculus Sec. 1 - J. Muckenfuss - BH 106 Sec. 2 ~ T. Bick - BH 205 Sec. 3 - W. Zwicker- l;lH 108 Sec. 4- S. Niefield- BH 207 Sec. 5 - K. Zimmerman .. BH 201 Sec. 6- S. Niefield- BH 207 Sec. 7 ·A. Taylor a :SH 102 S\'lc, S ~ K 2~mme:tman ~ IH! ~0 1 MTH 14 • CalculUS ill Sec. 1 - W. Stone ~ BH 203 Sec. 2 - L. Tatevossian - BU 300 MTH 30 - Ordin Differential Equations Sec. 1 - R. Seik:en - N 116 : Sec. 2 ~ J. Coffer.,. 'BU 104 Sec. 3 - J. Coffey.- BU 204 FRIDAY. DECEMBER 4 - 8:30 .. 10:30 ACC 10 -Financial Accounting I~ N. Garrod- BH 201 ANT 10 - Intro. to Cultural Anthropology - M. Kaprow - HU 117 ARS 45- Music Cultures of the World- T. W. Ross- AR 215 ECO 144- Iuternational Economics- E. D. Phaup- SS·103 EGL 40- Literature of The Bible - H. Freund - HU 115 HEB 10- Basic Hebrew I- F. Rheingold- HU 116 HST 36 - History of Europe II - M. Walker- HU 114 HST 64- History of Latin Amer. Women- T. Meade- SS 110 HST 113 - Popular Culture & American Hist. - .F. Dudden - SS 104 LAT 130 ~ Catullus artd Harace ·G. Meltzer- HU 119 PHY 46 - Space Technology • D. Peak- BH 207 PHY 131 - Electromagnetism I - K. Schick; - N 116 PSC 12 - C~mtemporary International Pol. Sec. 2- C. dati- SS 112 PS Y 31 - Abnormal Psychology - G. At1as - PY 113 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4 ~u11:15-hl5 EER 30 - Sy~tem Theory I Svc. 1 - V. Fl&dc - SU 1.0.9 Sec. 2 - V. Fatic - BU 109 EER 143 ~.Electromagnetic Engineering 1 SI- J. Malllick, Sec. 1 & 2- BH 207 ESC 41 - Electric Circuits : Sec. I - L. Hollander - BU 106 Sec. 2 ~ c. Tmvt~r - :au 300 MER 141- Engin~ting Design II~ R. C.untur, Sec. 1 & ~ \\'nU ~04 FRIDAY, DECEMBER 4 - 2:00-4:00 CBM 30 - Organic Chemistry I Sec. I - J. Sowa - Btl 204 Sec. 2 - L. Hull - BU 204 ESC 18 - Intro. To Digital Computers Sec. 1- J. Gajjax- BH 207 Sec. 2- A. Itani- N 116 • THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSE WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DMSION SECTION: TUESDAY. DECEMBER 1 - 4:30-6:30 P.M. CSC 136- Advanced Programming Techniques- G.Williams- A room to be announced. HU 019. ! \-

Page 14 \ ·.~-~~:r:··--- \ ~~:~~~~ :. ~~~~~, ' ,. \ . THE .. BIRDS IS COMING CONCORDIENSJS, October · 29, 1987 S ynclironized Swim 'Team PRE-HEALTH SOCIETY NOTICE Are you an underclassman with questions about classes? What courses do I need iorhealth profeSSion graduate schools? To &ssist you, each Fridlly in the College Center PIJb the officers of Pre-Health will be available at 12:.30 pm. , Certainly please come if you are having any problems with present classes or if you would i'-'st like to know mOre about the Pre-HealtJtSoclety. By an means bring comme~s and suggestions. Join Us!!! FRIDAY 12:30 PM COLLE.GE CENTER PUB Come Swim Witfi Us Practices 'Iuescfay & 'Ihursiay 8:30-10:00 ' 9{p t£rrperience Nj,ecfecf ··, .. Dutchman's. Night Friday Evenings At The Dutch Hollow Restaurant Don't .be left out this time Cream of Watercress Soup Mixed Fresh Citrus Cup Garden Fresh Salad Greens Dutch Hollow Choice Of: Roast 'Prinle Ribs of Beef Au Jus Broiled Jumbo Shrimp, Adriaticco Tournedo of Beef, Garlic Crouton Baked Stuff Breast of Chicken Athena ·Dutchess Potato Tisotto Piemontese Baked Squash Assorted Dinner Rolls & Butter Fresh Apple Pie with Cheddar Cheese ProfiteroHes with Chocolate Sauce Assorted Beverages Make rese:rvations with Cashier before 3:00 pm on Thursday for Friday 10/30 5 & 7 pm. -Cash Value $11.00- or 19 meal plan - 2 free Dutchman nights/mo. ~ 14 meal plan- 1 free Dutchman night/mo. 10 meal· plan- 1 free Dutchman night/rna. .G. ~ti Fi I I ~ werE fore~ inert weal and ever cout weal tron intD tro\ the . are the the \S!JJ inte of • crei: for onl~ e:ijti the ere~ \Tt coi:I into fore bor: con B DoE PH: ask of't he fou: clo: fol'l exi for' but she the mo I ] ph ye, elE (S~ wl: de wi sci ch ve Ol\l .Sll• SOt ] set gr' th~ go. do Tl St PJ H z~ ~ C< pl aJ is SC in h a: m ir el (f tr OJ e:2 tl: cc ~ o!

~ CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 Pag~ 15 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY - Five Fundamental Forces? By ALAN DESALVIO Eotvos perfonued an . ex- periment intended to validate 1 always .thought that there Isaac Newton's second law that were just four fundamental the gravi~tional attraction fo:rces in nature. In order of between two bodies does not increa:;ing. strength: . grav:tty,, depend on the composition of weak nuclear, electromagnetic, · the bodies but only:.the_ir masses and strong nuclear .. And I've to a relayvely great degree of even taken a. particle physics precision. He suspended pairs course where.! was ·told that the of samples of various materials weak nuclear ·and elec· on a torsion balance near a tromag11etic might be combined large mass -and measured the into a single force, the elec· deflection of the balance. His troweak force. And, -of course, data ag~:eed with·· Newton in all the Grand Unifying Theories cases but one, involving bronze, . are trying to comQine gravity,. and von .EQtvos dj.sregarded the strong nuclear force, and that data asstatistical and/or the electroweak force into on~ experi.n;l.ental error. The error \snpenorce\ that controls all was, in fact, quite small. interaction in tlle Universe. All In 1986 Epbraim Fischbach of this- happens in ever in· reanalyzed the von Eotvos data creasing energy environments; and discovered that no for example, the ·''superforce\ mistakes had been m.ade, that only exhibited itself as a single there was in fact a discrepancy entity at the earliest instants of between theory and reality for the · initial ''Big Bang\ that bronze. Further esoteric created our Universe (or is the analysis of gravitational ac· \The\ Universe?). These celeration data .from both short combined entities break doWil range · and long range into our familiar everyday- (planetary and satellite motion forces under normal neigl!- prediction, for example) . im- borhood extremely low energt plied that Newton's law did not conditions. quite hold between 10 and ~01!0 But what is this fifth force:t_ meters. Another way to put 1t 1s Does this mean I'll have to t;1ke that after cancelling all known PllY 11 and PHY 13 again? [ forces in each case, there was asked. Dr. Peak, the chairma11 an additional unknown net of the physics department, bllt force. Fischbach and his group he withheld comment-but I went .on to propose a theory found his demonaicallaugh as I connecting the new force to the closed · his office door in- ''baryon number\ of the formative enougb.No. The materials involved, which is the existence of the possible fifth number of neutrons per nuclei force has not yet been accepted, (N) plus the-number of protons but several e:q>eriments have per nuclei ( Z). shed some light on the subject, The latest experiment on the the first-of which was conductEd problem has been performed by more than seventy years ago. Paul Boynton and colleagues,. In the- !91~'s~ Roland v~~-- _, ~!?-~ -~~S.. V:~fY ~_il.l!!.I~r to VQn Eotvos's orig~al experiment in that it was also a torsion balance. Boynton suspended ~ three inch ring made of two equal semicircles of aluminum and beryllium from a wire in . front of a 400 foot cliff, and found that the aluminwn side twisted slightly towards the cliff. As all other forces were eaual. this meantthe fifth force either pushed on the alwninum or pulled on tile berylium, and in either ease the force was unequal due to the differing chemical composition of th.e two halves. Boynton has connected the force to another nuclear term, the \isospin\ of the atomic nuclei, or N- Z. The fifth force is quite weak, being weaker than gravity and · gravity is the weakest force of the familiar fo.ur, being 40 or- · dets of magnitude weaker than the strong force. The fifth force is also distance constrained, to between 10 and 1000 meters. These two delimiters would seem to rule out antigravity for the time being, but all the results aren't in yet, and no books are ·being replinted. As for now, the fifth force is just another he_adache for the particle physicists and their hopes of gran(i unity .. Whatever happens, I'm not going to take PHY 13 again. Tuesday, November 3, Mr. Franklin 0. Carta, Supervisor of Aerodynamic ·Engineering United Technologies Research Lab will speak on \The Art of Engineering, ' 1 in the Social Science Bldg., Room 016 at 7:30 p.m. This talk is sponsored by A.S.M.E. All are welcome. Profile: Barth Bracy By JENNIFERKOVE Barth Bracy is a junior physics major at Union. Tw year he has the honor of bein~ elected president of· the SP.S (Society of Physics Students) which is a national organizatioll designed to unite those students with an interest in physics ()f science in general. The Union chapter has 25 members and is very active. Barth has alreadJ' organized several activities .such as the wine and cheese social, filrils and discussions. · Barth believes that the SPS is seen as a purely acadernl~ group and would like to mod:icy that image. One of his many goals as president is to brea:k down this ·stiff academi{l stereoty.pe. The Society'. is meant to be social as well as intellectual. He hopes to achieve ·this by showing in- teresting, thought-'provoking films in a casual and friendly atmosphere. Barth stresses that the SPS is not just for physics majors, but for anyone with an affinity for science ·related topics. The SPS keeps Barth quite busy in addition to his classes. Besides hi,s office, Barth is also in the ROTC program and does research in the physics department. Researcn iS very important to him. Barth was one of the few privileged Union students who participated in the sumnuner research at \Brookhaven a few years ago. He assisted Professors Laszlo Baksay and Rich Magahiz in gathering data for their work in high . energy physics. Barth benefitted in more ways than one from bis experience. Besides the physics learned, he met graduate . students gathering data for their theses,- and became closer with his professors. Barth also works with a professor here at Union, and is .an adamant supporter of student research. He claims, ·''It is an ·excellent opportunity. Research is a hands on ap- plication of wllat you d() in, the · classroom. I tis a way of testing yaur frontiers.\ Recommendation: The Nature of Irreversibility The Nature of Irreversibility: A Stu.dy of Its Dynamics and Physical Origins. Henry B. Hollinger and Michael J()m Zenzen. 340 pp. D. Reidel; UJB5. · $39.50. This book. is the resUlt of a courageous underta~ing by a pbysico•chemist (Hollinger) and a philosopher ( Zenzen), It Is written for philosophers and scientists who have a s~cial interest in the interpretive a11d foundational probleoos associated with statistical mechanics and the dynamics of irreversibility. To· undertake to explain the nature of anything (for ex~ple, mass . or elee- tricity) in physics makes se11se only rarely. But there is · ~n exception: the Second Law of · tbermodynamics and tile concept of entropy, which um betaken to represent the natW?e of irreversibility. In the narrow . (rigorous?) sense, this is the statement that the entropy of a macroscopic, closed system 10 elements in 'a microstate) necessarily in- creases when it is adiabatically isolated and when a (necessarily) irreversible process takes place within its bounnd~ry. The authors realize that the Second Law would be just another empirical law were it not for the magnificently successful molectilar model of matter. The legitimate question or paradox, thoroughly aired in this book, arises when , we ponder how the irre~ersibility at the macroscop1c level emerges from the reversibility · that ptevails at th.e micro~pic level. In more preciSe technical terms, we ask (notabLy with B()ltzmann) whether it is possibie to reduce the Sec~nd Law to a theorem in mecbanics. The authors expertly describe the many attempts to do so, ~n~ this· is the ·important' con- tribution of the book, but they justifiably conclude that ''there was no way for any of those formalisms t() answer the questions about irreversibility raised here\ (p. 55}. Elsewllere they note, \While acknowledging these attempts as important articulations of basic ideas in statistical mechanics... we feel that they do not meet the irreversibility paradox head on\ (p. v). It is understandable that such an attitude opens the door to a philosopher's contribution and an emphasis on \metaprin· clples whichare nut themselves mathematical expressions or conditions\ {p. 3). A reader whose turn of i!lind makes him receptive to \Although humans make sounds with their mouths and occasionally . look at each other, there is no solid evidence that they actuaUy communicate among themselves.\ International Association for Physics Stud~ents By EGYED ZOLTAN · TWo years ago a small group in a small cQuntry started to think about the p<JSSibilities of physics students in forei~n affairs. They've found a b1g problem in this area. There was - No regular information exchange between physics students at an international level (conference,. warkshops, schools, scholarships) - No well-developed ex- change of physics students between the different countries of the world . - No regular meeting of the representatives of physics students of different countries. We think that if the above- mentioned possibilities were available, we w~>Uld become scientists with a modern way of thinking. It would be easier to choose the field we would like to work on. We could see more clearly the role and respon- .. sibility of scientists in today's world. Our personal views could become wider if · we meet students living iii other coun- tries and other ·c¢tures; we could talk, argue ·and un- derstand each other. For this reason, we - a small group of physics students in the Eotvos University of Hungary - organized a conference in 1986. The first International Conference for Students of Physics took place in Bttdapest, capitol of Hungary, from 15--18 October 1986. Twenty-four lectures were held. There were students .from eight countries. There were some lectures given by physicists and faculty members from Ulliversities and research centers. The opening lectuve was given by the deputy director of tl:re- CentraJ Researeb Institute for Physics. Next . day we invited the students to see the institute. On the last night we had a boat trip on the Duna, the river of Budapest. The participants had discussion about future plans. Agreement was reached on the following: - A conference every year - International winter and summer schools -- SUmmer internships (for work or research) After the C()nference we received 31 offers for such activities. There was a summer ·school in Hungary about structures of fractals. We stablisbed contact wlth the Enropean Physical Society. After this successful initiative we organized a second con- ference this year in Hungary, again. It wa$ from 9-13 Sep- tember i987. The number of participating colllltries rose to philoS()phy and a critique of foundations will find in one boork practicaUy everything that has been discovered in this field. However, he must be on guard and make sure that the semantics of the book clarify rather than obscure his un\ derstanding. I find this aspect to 15. This conference was held in the city of Debrecen. There were lectures given by students a11d: r.esearcher:s in many areas of physics such as particle physics, astronomy and biophysics. F acuity from several countries also par- ticipated, for example, Prof. Baksay from Union College. The participants visited ATOMKI the nuclear research institute in Debrecen. ~ey . went onaa trlp to the famous \puszta\, the Hortobagy. On the last day of this conference the participants founded the Imternational Association of Physics Students. So now IT EXISTS! We can do things! The IAPS is a non-political association for physics st11dents. The official language is English with the information center now in Budapest. Activities of lAPS: Arranging visits to univer- sities and other institutions Organizing . the annual IiltemationaL Conference for Physics Students Organizing internships Structure of the lAPS: The supreme organ of the IAPS is the General Meeting which consists of the representatives of National Committees of member countries~ individual members and a representative from the International information Bureau. Each National Committee has one vote. All individual members together have one vote. A prop()sal is accepted when it has the support of a two- thirds majority. The International Infor- mation Bureau stores and updates· information for IAPS and publishes the lAPS News. The National Committee determines its own internal organization independently of lAPS. What do we have to do now? The first two conferences- wEre in HWlgary, but from the next year, they'll be in various places. We want to establish an advisory committee. The Nobel Laur~ate Rudolph Moss bauer is the first honorary member. Unexpected support came from P:t1>f. Hervig Schopper, the director of the CERN, the European Center for Nuclear Research. The participants have to set up national otganizations. There is no membership fee at the moment, but later there'll be a nominal fee. If you would like to join this new, student·i~itiated, organization, please contact Egyed Zoltan, Society of Physics Students, ext. 6254. be a mixed bag and feel uneasy witll the taxonomy and scope ·~f ir.reversibility discussed m ehapter5, especially on p~ge Ml. Astonishingly, ne1ther \reversible\ or \reversibility\ appears in the. subject index. ..Joseph Kestin, Eogineerl.llg, Brown University

Page 16 ,- CONCORDIENSlS, October 29, 1987 STUDENT FORUM OFFICES MONDAY: TUESDAY: 3rd Floor College Center 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 12:00 1:00 2:00 3:00 Wendy Endress Mike VanHorn Dave Cohen .J, Keith Bemis Jean Mattus Colleen Adinolfi Mike Hiller . -Joe Voyticky Jen Scully . (Junior Trustee) (Junior Representative) (Senior Representative) (Sophomore Representive) (Vice President of Finance) (Senior Representative) (President of Student Forum) (Junior Representative) (Senior Representative) WEDNESDAY: 12:.00 Mark Webster (Senior Trustee) 1:00 Kristen Nelson (Junior Representative) 2:00 Marty Cepkauskas. (I.F.C. Representative) 3:00 Val Barbie (PanHellenic Reprentative) THURSDAY: 12:00 Chris Pike (Sophomore Representative) 1:00 Aaron Carrol (V .P. of Academics) 2:00 Pete Costa (Sophomore Representative) 3:00 Geri Mackey (V.P. of Administration) THE BIRDS IS :COMI:NG Money and Health: A Ul'liar.. Coll-ege Lecture Examines Where The Two Subiects. 'Meet In American society money and .health appear to be permanently intertwined. Making decisions abol:ltWhefe and how to allocate resources is a Key question vvt'1en the future of preventive med!cine is examined. On W~dn~sday. Nov~mber 4 at Uni()n C9llege. fh~re Will be a talkpn \Prevention vs.-Cure: Another View of Cost Effectivene§s Methodology and Its Finding§\ by Charles Arnold. M.D .. Medical Director of Metropolitan 'Life, Insurance Company. The progranbegins at6:30 p.m. in Room 016 of 1he Sociai-Scienc;esbuilding CRUISE s·HIPS NOW HIRING. MIF Su-mmer & carerr opportunities (will train}, excellent pay plus world traveL Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, etc. Call Now: 206-736·:0715 Exto ·354F ., -z~,P- ·::;.=~-~~-- ~~~,\:,~:~ . ··--.~if: ~,,.,:~: .. ~- :::¢ :.:..'- ::~. · !! •

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 STUDENT FORUM OFFICES 3rd Floor CoUege Center MONDAY: 12:00 Wendy Endress (Junior Trustee) 1:00 Mike V a.nHom (Junior Representative) 2:00 Dave Cohen (Senior Representative) \\\' 3:00 Keith Bemis (Sophomore Representive) TUESDAY: 12:00 Jean MatlUs (Vice President of Finance) 1:00 Colleen Adinolfi (Senior Representative) 2:00 Mike Hiller (President of Student Forum) Joe Voyticky (Junior Representative) 3:00 Jen Scully (Senior RepFesentative) WEDNESDAY: 12:00 Mark Webster (Senior Trnstee) 1 :00 Kristen Nelson (Junior Representative) 2:00 Marty Cepkauskas (l.F.C. Representative) 3:00 Val Barbie (PanJ!ellenic Reprentative) THURSDAY: 12:00 Chris Pike (Sophomore Representative) 1:00 Aaron Carrol (V.P. of Academics) 2:00 Pete Costa (Sophomore Representative) 3:00 Geri Mackey (V.P. of Administration) THE ~BIRDS IS COMI:NG Money and ,Health: A Union College Lecture Examines Where The Two Subiects; Meet In American society money and health appear t.o be permanently intertwined. Making decisions about where and how to allocate resources is a key question when the future of preveAtive medicine is examined. On Wednesday. November 4 at Union College. there will be a 1alk on \Prevention vs. Cure: Another View pf Cost Effectiveness Methodology and Its Findings\ by Charles Arnold. M.D., Medical Director of Metropolitan Life .. Insurance Company. The program begins at 6:30 p.m. in Room 016 of 1he Social Sciences building CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING$ MIF Summer & carerr opportunities (will train), excellent pay plus world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, eic. Call Now: 206-736-0775 Ext. 354F :;· E . ; We a~e a·n.ew o.rg;an,ization. on.Gampus focusing on life for women at Union. , , We. are i~.n~.e.rs.stecliin addta$Slo,g·.:.i.~s.ue:sy,( ... ,aoct:the effec;t~.tbey,·have;, ··,::~a~L.~~~tnf!l'~'rt'\~ty·~1·· o_ ' - :-- __ ,.__ -·- • • -- .:. :'·.· ;: ·-:_:·: • ' :-:_ :, '•:: :-._ .,, :~ :( ~ ·: • '• ·s . _.,·_ .. <·, ,-.,;···:·. :: __ ._,, __ -~·'':-:· . • ·.· ., ,; .;:·. ;: :.- -,;-::.-;.-:;·_ ~-, __ :· _ .. _::_',-~.:;:···'-:.·.-'::-;,:: .. - :,·:~'·:, =:~ .. -:-:-·,:;:::.·:·-~:~:;. ·'·:·::=--,~--:::<: -. _ ... _ .. ,. >:'·: · ... ~: .·. : ·:: .::;; ::J\·' -. ···:-::-.-:'~ ' .. -~ .·~. . ·.:· -.~ ., ···.,s~is~;··u:~;M'i\::·; / .. ' w ·o:·,m e :.n ''r$ . •Educi:ttkmal & Career opPOttunities . • Sa t·e.ty •Health . -~ . . :~. . . . ' . '11 is our intention to support the academic, athletic, and cul1u.ral acheievem'ents · of the WClmen at Uni\on · · · W :e·· ,·.n· v·t'\'e·· ·\*'h·& ·m····, lCU'S··etH'\'fiioio!:·tllin.:m: 13o n~.:olihit1 .u··:·.·· ,...,~o··n··. C·· l!lltl:D .· · ... ~·.·. ~ .. ·~ w\'1~~~~1;:J~io~- ··~ . .... : ,tj,t;di·, ~.· ,. .. . . N:;Q~~r;t.;;l· 7:SO· ~n;t: c.o,lt:lat,e· ,·Gen_··. . .• • ·-:·:<' • .:::~.. . . ..~ . •' i -

CONCORDIENSJS, October 29, 1987 Page 17 ARTS & FILMS James Taylor Wows Full House at Proctors Mounte·ban:ks Prese~nts Theatre Fest 87 By JEAN BEATY Finally, Theatre Fest '87 has arrived! ! No, this · isn't Octoberfest; and we're not celebrating autumn, or the harvest, or German beer. We're celebrating theatre! We would like everyone to come out and celebrate with us. Why Nott? If you have nevet· been to a theatrical event on campus, or even if you have, why Nott come · to one of our events? What are our events? Well, tonight, at 10:00 in the College . Center, the Mountebanks are · performing at Cabaret. We'll sing, read a children's story, do a dramatic pres.entation of \The Raven\ and other humorous skits. Be.prepared to really · enjoy yourself, · if you come to our Cabaret. Oh, of course, there.. will be refresh- ments. On Friday and Saturday, in conjunction with Union College; Dining Services, we're presenting Dinner Theatre featuring the absurdist comedy · Tile Bald Soprano by Eugene Ionesco. I was given the op- portunity to preview the show, and can honestly say that it is a very funny, quite absurd, well done production. If you were unable to make reservations this past week, you can still come to see the show for only $3.00, if there is still seating available. Simply come to the upperclassmen'S dining hall at either 5,:45 or 8:15 .p.m. on FridayorSaturday, to purchase your ticket for that show. Of course, no refreshments will be provided if you don't come for .dinner. (The dinner begins at 5:00 and 7:30 p.m .. on both ~nights.) The last event of Theatre Fest '87 is the All Campus Talent Show. Many different acts have signed up to perform, so why Nott come and see what your fellow students can do. The talent show is Sunday night at 8:00 in Memorial Chapel. Of course, for many of us Mountebanks, this is not the end of our. work this term at all. Many are involved in the Arts Department's production of The Byrds,coming up November 12- 21, (Tickets go on sale November 2 in ··the Nott bo~· office) and we've already started planning our Winter and Spring productions. So, keep on watching for more Theatre production, and continue celebrating theatre. Why Nott? ATTENTION WRITERS Nora Sayre, a former film critic for the NY times and Correspondent on cultural and political subjects for the New Statesman, is now teaching at Columbia University while writing her third book. She will talk informally about her career as a writer. Monday; Nov .. 2 at 4 pm in CO 204. Refreshments. International Film By ELIZABETH BERLINER There?are some people who simply need no introduction. As James Taylor stepped on stage to a .sold-,out audience last Saturday night, this was ob- vious. A few chords Qf \Sometbing\ and the audience was al:ready enamored with him. Ever~one who had been anxio~ly awaiting this concert Tay:lilr had people dancing in the aisles • • . an.d crying in their beer ... for the ~last month was not disappointed. Despite a fashionably late start, JT played ,for over two and a half hours, mixing both new material and old favorites. Throw :in a new arrangement of \You Are My Only One,\ a cover, of Buddy H.olly's Union Celebrates American Music Week Proiessor Tann Featured in Concert By .JAN GOLDSTEIN Unio11 College faculty members will be creating some excitement in appreciation of American Music Week. Music Week is celebrated from November 2-8. On November 6th a s:pecial concert has been scheduled which will highlight two a!'ea composers and a chamber ensemble. North· South Consonance, directed by composer Max Lifchitz, along with guest pianist Pola Baytelrnan and area com- posers-assistant professor of music at Union, Hilary Tann will appear at 8 p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio Qf the Arts B.11ilding. · The .focal point of the program will be the per- formanee of two works by two area composers; Tann and Lifchitz. The program hopes to bring the works of living comp()sers to the attention of the aadience. In celebration of Ameritan Music Week, the concert will be free. Women's Studies Film Series Presents, \HOUR OF THE STAR\ A prize winning Brazilian flim Discounted Tickets For November 23 Or 24 Performance Of • directed by Susanna Amarel (with English subtitles) Discussion after the film by Ester Kosovski, Visiting Fulbright Fellow from Brazil, and Nora Sayere, Writer and Fiulm Critic. Open to the college community and the public. MONDAY,NOVEMBER2 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM 7:30PM I'M NOT RAPPAPORT at Proctor's Theater All Welcome! Interested? Contact Ellen· at x4296 or Box #861 \Everyday and a spir-itEd rendition of \The Twist\ a11d you have all the key ingredients for a memorable and Oilt- standing musical event. Taylor had people dancing in the aisles for songs such as \Steamroller and crying 'in their beer with \Fire and R.ai.:n' ' (a song he had stopped pl~ying for some time.) To top it all off, who ex.pected· the mellow James Tayl()r t() have a rather dry senSE ·()f humor? His personal stagoe presence was so relaxed tbat it felt as if he were playing to a private audience in his livin~ room. In a professional, rela:sed manner, he not only carded Oll conversation with the audieJtce, but his sarcasm between S()!lgs, (directed at certain irrever.ent screamers in the crowd), k-ept the audience in hysterics. Tll.en, just as it seemed the evell.ing was getting a little too upbeai, a mellow song woUld take tlte crowd back down. The majority of the audience became com- pletely involved in the emotional rollercoaster he was presentin~. JT will be releasing a new album in Januacy, and from the sound of the new nwnbers he played,. it shall be widely welcomed by his anxious fans. The title song from the new LP, \Never Die Young,\ received crowd-wide approval. As final proof of the success of this event, one need only note the four stage calls given by Taylor. Obviously, the audience was having far too much fun to let the artist go home, but alas, all good things must pass, and so, too, did \Sweet Baby James.\ Undoubtedly, James Taylor is a classy, un- forgettable performer who left quite a mark on anyone in at- tendance at Proctor's on· Saturday night. THE BIRDS IS COMING \The Birds'' at the Nott ByT.ROSS The Arts Department~s production of Aristophanes' 'lllle Birds promises ornithological ecstasy.! With direction by . Barry Smith, scenography ~nd costumes by Charles Steclder, lighting by John Miller, ~nd music by Tom Ross, Tbe Bird hops right into your pocketa!ld · won't leave until you sq11a\'k! The Birds sets your claw a- tappin' and your beak a- chatterin'! Tio-Tio-Tio~Ti()• Tinx! W hen ( ' Hope .. Alont~' ) Pisthetairos plans the utQ~ian CLOUDCUCKOOLAND, little does he realize he'll marry MISS UNIVERSE into the bargain. The Birds build CLOUDCUCKOOLAND Cllld thus, for better for worse, discover their humanity. And inanity. Ang profanity. It's insanity I They conquer the gods! · The cast of some thirty characters includes the Bird Chorus, a bevy of female wing- types; and the aging arch- hipster Pisthetairos; and Hoopoe, who has learned Bird- talk and, in return, taught the Birds English. And the Poet leads the audience in refrains which help the play! All, onlookers included, celebrate THE BIRDS, \imagination's happy home.\ Playing at 8 p.m. at the Nott, Thursday through Saturday (November 12-14) and Tuesday through Saturday (November 17-21). JUSr ~f?J?e D!NNe~ TH.lS FRIDAY o CONCtf{T la1MITTee P![ES2NTS ~ ~LONG meR LlNH}I f'F(rel L\V8 JAL-2- irl #18 CCLLEt:£. ceNJBR ATR\Din 4'.0) f~VI­ fftlefl~ a:rcBet? sott-.

CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 Page 17 ARTS & FILMS James Taylor Wo.ws Full House at Proctors Mountebanks Presents Theatre Fest 87 By JEAN BEATY Finally, Theatre Fest '87 has arrived!! No, this isn't Octoberfest; and we're not celebrating autumn, or the harvest, or German beer. We're celebrating theatre! We would like everyone to come out and celebrate with us. Why Nott? If you have never been to a theatrical event on campus, or even if you have, why Nott come to one of our events? What are our events? Well, tonight, at 10:00 in the College Center, the Mountebanks are performing at Cabaret. We'll sing, read a children's story, do a dramatic presentation of \The Raven\ and other humorous skits. Be prepared to really enjoy yourself, if y()u come to our Cabaret. Oh, of course, there. will be refresh- ments. On Friday and Saturday, in conjunction with Union College Dining Services, we're presenting Dinner Theatre featuring the absurdist comedy The Bald Soprano by Eugene Ionesco. I was given the op- portunity to preview the show, and can honestly say that it is a very funny, quite absurd, well done production. If you were unable to make reservations this past week, you can still come to see the show for only $3.00, if there is still seating available. Simply come to the upperclassmen's dining hall at either 5:45 or 3:15 p.m. on Friday or Saturday, to purchase your ticket for that show. Of course, no refreshments will be provided if you don't come for dinner. (The dinner begins at 5:00 and 7:30 p.m. on both nights.) The last event of Theatre Fest '87 is the All Campus Talent Show. Many different acts have signed up to perform, so why Nott come and see what your fellow students can do. The talent show is Sunday night at 8:00 in. Memorial Chapel. Of course, for many of us Mountebanks, this is not the end of our work this term at all. Many are involved in the Arts Department's production of The Byrds,coming up November 12- 21, (Tickets go on sale November 2 in the Nott box office) and we've already started planning our Winter and Spring productions. So, keep on watching for more Theatre production, and continue celebrating theatre. Why Nott? .. ATTENTION WRITERS Nora Sayre, a former film critic for the NY times and Correspondent on cultural and political subjects for the New Statesman, is now teaching at Columbia University while writing her third book. She will talk informally about her career as a writer. Monday; Nov. 2 at 4 pmin CC 204. Refreshments. International Film By ELIZABETH B'ERLINER There\' are some people who simply need no introduction. As James Taylor stepped on stage to a sold-out audience last Saturday night, this was ob- vious. A £ew chords of \Something\ and the audience was already enamored with him. Everyone wbo had been anxiously awaiting this concert Taylor llad people dancing in the aisles • • . and crying in their beer ... for the last month was n\ot disappointed. Despite a fashionably late start, JT played for over two and a half hours, mixing both new material and old favorites. Throw in a new arrangement of \You Are My Only One,\ a cover of Buddy Holly's Union Cel.ebrates American Music Week ProfessorTann Featured in Concert By JAN GOLDSTEIN Union CoJ:lege faculty members will be creating some excitement in appreciation of American Music Week. Music Week is celebrated from November 2-8. On November 6th a special concet1 has been scheduled which will highlight two area composers and a chamber ensemble. North· South Consonance, directed by composer Max Lifchitz, along with guest pianist Pola Baytelman and area com- posers-assistant professor of music at Union, Hilary Tann will appear at 8 p.m. in the Performing Arts Studio of the Arts Building. The focal point of the program will be the per- formance of two works by two area composers; Tann and Lifchitz. The program hopes to bring the works of living composers to tile attention of the audience. [n celebration of American Music Week, the concert will be free. Women's Studies Film Series Presents, \HOUR OF THE STAR\ A prize winning Brazilian flim directed by Susanna Amarel (with English subtitles) Discounted Tickets For November 23 Or 24 Performance Of Discussion after the film by Ester Kosovski, Visiting Fulbright Fellow from Brazil, and Nora Sayere, Writer and Fiulm Critic. Open to the college community and the public. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 2 COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM 7:30PM I'M NOT RAPPAPORT at Proctor's Theater All Welcome! Interested? Contact Ellen at x4296 or Box #=861 \Everyday and a spirited rendition of \The Twist\ and you have all the key h1gredients for a memorable and out- standing musical event. Taylor had people dancihg in the aisles for songs such as \Steamroller and crying in their beer with \Fire and Rain\ (a song he had stopped playing for some time.) To top it all off, who expected the mellow James Taylor to have a rather dry sense of humor? His personal stage presence was so relaxed that it felt as if he were playillg to a private audience in his living room. In a professional, relaxed manner, he not only carried on conversation with the audience, but his sarcasm between songs, (directed at certain irreverent screamers in the crowd), kept the audience in hysterics. Then, just as it seemed the evening was getting a little too upbeat, a mellow song would take the crowd back down. Tbe majority of the audience became com· pletely involved in the emotional rollercoaster he was presenting. JT will be releasing a new album in January, and from the sound of the new numbers he played, it shall he widely welcomed by his anx::ious fans. The title song .from th.e new LP, \Never Die Young,\ received crowd-wide approval. As final proof of the success of this event, one need only note the four stage calls given by Taylor. Obviously, the alidience was having far too much. fun to let the artist go home, but alas, all good things must pass, and so, too, did \Sweet Baby James.\ Undoubtedly, James Taylor is a classy, un- forgettable performer Wh() left quite a mark on anyone in at- tendance at Proctor's on· Saturday night. THE BIRDS IS COMiiNG \The Birds\ at the Nott ByT.ROSS The Arts Department's production of Aristophanes' The Birds promises ornithological ecstasy! With direction by Barry Smith, scenography and costumes by Charles Steckler, lighting by John Miller, and music by Tom Ross, The Bird hops right into your pocket and won't leave until you squawk! The Birds sets your claw a- tappin' and your beak a- chatterin'! Tio-Tio-Tio-Tio- Tinx! When ('Hope· Along') Pisthetairos plans the utopian CLOUDCUCKOOLAND, little does he realize he'll marry MISS UNIVERSE into the bargain. The Birds build CLOUDCUCKOOLAND and thus, for better for worse, discover their humanity. And inanity. An~ profanity. It's insanity! They conquer the gods! The cast of some thirty characters includes the Bird Chorus, a bevy of female wing· types; and the aging arch· hipster Pisthetairos; and Hoopoe, who has learned Bird- talk and, in return, taught the Birds English. AI1d the Poet leads the audience in refrains which help the play~ All, onlookers included, celebrate THE BIRDS, \imagination's happy home.'' Playing at 8 p.m. at the Nott, Thursday through Saturday (November 12-14) and Tuesday through Saturday (November 17-21). JUST ~FCRe DINNe~ TH\S FRIDAY ., CONCef\T ~MITTee Pffe32N1S .. \LONG ffTeR LUVCH') F~! L\V8 JAL-2- in fhl' CCLl£Gt-7 ceNTeR A1R\U(Y) 4 .C{J fv~ fff\DA'-1' cxrceeR 30HA

Page :L8 CONCORDIENSIS, OctDber 29, 1987 , '\I i\ '(' Qj 1,. ,r~ 1\\ \11\: :\j T\ tv v\J , , 1 0._ ' \ I , The Dead Milkmen at QE2 EyUNDERDOG andCHIAPET The Dead Milkmen are funny. Th.ey . are also musically urunclined, but they know it. The most polished song on their new ree()rd \Bucky Fellini\ is called 'Surfing Cow' which sounds like Love Tractor with a hangover. It's a good thing we didn't travel all the way to QE2 on State Street to see ct polished band. We went to see Philadelphia's leg.end'ary \snot\ band. QE2 was packed to the walls with an oddvall mix of punks and college preps. From the start, the Milkmen made a point of picking on establishment ideals. The Hooters, the Grateful Dead, Nixon, Reagan and Duran D11ran (.they covered \Notorious\) all received equal abuse. Musically, the Milkmen are simple, Bar chords and three Arts Briefs Film Critic at Union Nora Sayre, former film , critic f()r the New York Times, will be the , Woodrow W!!son Visiting Fellow at Uni_,n the weelt of November 1. !Jayre will give informal talks and conduct classroom dillcusion. Also, a public talk on \Writing of Memoirs: A Portrait ofEdmund Wilson\ will be given on · Thnrsday ~November !i at 11 AM in the College Center . Auditorium. Sayre's visit is sponsored by the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Fol!Ildation which has con- ducted programs iil higher educati~nsince 1945. Duck Soup at Proctor's On Friday, November 6 at 7:30 and Saturday, November 7 at 2 and 8 PM, Proctor's Theatre in Schenectady will show the 1933 Marx Brother's classic \Duck Soup.\ Also, prior to the 8 PM showing, the 1917 Charlie Chaplin· comedy \The Immigrant\ will be shown with live organ accompaniment by Proct()r's Organist/ Artist-in- Residence Allen Mills. Ad- mission to the Friday evening and Satllrday matinee is $2 for adlllts alld $1 for children under 12.. For the Saturday evening showing admission is $3 for . adults alld$1 for children under 12. For information call 382- 1083. ES!PA at the EGG fnesenr:s Sherlock at the ESIPA Egg ESPIA at the Egg will. celebrate it's lOth Anniversary . alongside tbe lOOth of Sir Arthur • Conan Doyle's \Sherlock Holmes.\ The Egg will present the Paul Giovanni play \The . Crucifer of BliJod,'' based on the characters ()f Doyle, from November 7-20. For in- formation call443-5111. Harry Belafonte ' at Syracuse Harry Eelafonte will appear at the Landmark Theatre in Syracuse em . Thursday, November 19th for one per- formance only at 8 PM. Tickets, priced at $22.50, $20.50 and $18.50 reserved, go on sale October 26th at the Landmark Theatre Eox Office, Famous Artists and all Ticketron outlets. For more information call(315) 475-79110. Skidmore Theatre The skidmore Theatre Dept. will celebrate the opening of it's new Theatre facilty, the Janet . Kinghorn Bernhard Theatre, with a production of Moss Harts' play, \Light Up the Sky.\ The play will run from October 29 to November 1, and November 5-7. Tickets are $5 for general public, $3 for students and senior citizens. For more information call 584- 5000 ext. 2347. A VERY SPECIAL STAGED READING • • ., . .... .. ''A bit Cl/ .\un and chc: to~eclt of lat·e'.~ han!l. That is e.~.ll I a.1k at tht! last. \ • .• a roman~o·t.' I · October :t~, 30, 31 8PM Ttck~s: $4 Student $S Adult Box Oflke: () 18) 44).5 111 note solos permeate their songs. Lyrically, they are insipid, but nonetheless humor~us. \I stand on my head- 'til I'm legally dead- the woodchuck likes me- We smoke PCP- r want.to make friends with the .badger'' makes no sense Until thE band is seen live. They can't be mpre than twenty-six years old or more than five feet tall, but luckily height and humor are not directly related. 'The show was_ fun and the record is good, but we still can't figure out who \Bucky Fellini\ is. ~HE IDOL~ is naw accepting poetry, artwork, and short stories. • We will be accepting submissions all of fall team. Send original pieces to: JOY CYBUL BOX 542 ARTS & FILMS Mountebanks Cabaret Oct. :2~. 1987 10 p.m ... College Center ---~---....,---. ... Dinner Theatre featuring • THE GA LD SOPRANO Oct. :30 & 31, 1987 at 5 & 7:30 p.m. - Upperclassmen•s- Dirmhlg Hall Cost: 1 (one) meal card pu~ch or> :ida. so ----·----------- Talent Show Nov. 1, 1987 at 8 p.m., Memorial Chapel Stars Support Fundraiser; New Film Screened By ILMAR V ANDERER It was unusually warm and pleasant in New York City on the evening of Oct~her 14 a~ the first of many limousines arrived, each transporting a celebrity or patr()n of tbe arts who came to hollQr legendary silent screen star Lillian Gish on the occasion of her 91st birth- day and the premiere of her 105th film, \The Whales of August.\ Miss Gish arrived amidst the splendor of spotlights and radiance of red carpets to be greeted by several hundred fans who lined the entrance to the Coronet Theatre. Prior to her ap- pearance, the jubilant crowd cheered the arrival of co-stars Vincent Price and Ann Sothern, who both displayed the en- chanting charm and elegance characteristic of Hollywood's \Golden Age.\ Describing her co-stars, Lillian Gish remarked that they were \a fascinating group to work with.'' In addition, Vincent Price stated that ile was \very excited to work with the ladies,,. while Ann Sotbern noted that ''we are all survivors and this film is about Sllt- viving.'' Although legendary actress Bette Davis also starred in \The Whales of-August,\ she did not attend this premiere ()f her tOOth film. However, when she later graced the screen with her majestic presence, the audience cheered and ap- plauded her performance iri virtually every scene. · Inside the theatre, the stars were welcomed with a cham· pagne reception courtesy of The March of Dimes, whicll organized this event to raise funds for its Birth DefectS' Foundation. Here, the visibility of many other celebrities ill- dicated their admiration of Miss Gish, as well as their generous support of The March of Dimes in its crusade to eradicate diseases and prevent birth defects. These celebrities ill- eluded veteran actors Art Carney. and Harry Carey, Jr., who also co-stars in \Whales ()£ August;t famed · actresses Arlene Dahl and Lauren Hutton:, legendary stage star Helen Hayes, who welcomed, the · audience on behalf of the Mar'ch of Dimes, and Mayor Koch, who presented Gish with the Tiffany Crystal Apple of New York City to conunemorate her immense contributi<Jn to the arts. In addition, the refreshing intimacy of the. evening wa~ highlighted with humorous moments sucll as Mayor Koch's \revelation\ that \I also review movies forthe New York Post,\ and \Wbal~s of August\ director Lindsay ~nderson's \introduct()ry remark\ that \I was told this was a wonderful (motion) picture.\ After viewing the film, I met many celebrities, most notably Helen Hayes, whose continued en- thusiasm for the arts and sin-, cere support. of the March of Dimes impressed me im- mensely. Finally, as these celebrities departed to attend Lillian Gish' s birthday celebration, also organized to benefit the March of Dimes, I realized that positive aspects of cinematic histO'ry and humanitaria11ism had been viSibly affected through the talents of these- renowned performers, many of whom I }lad the pleastlre of meeting on this very special occasion. Get the facts about AIDS. Send for your free ccpy of ''100 Ques-ions and Answers About AIDS'' Write: N.Y.S. Heallh Dept. Sox 2,000 Albanv. NY 12220 !! - ( f I \ i

By JIM MACLAUGHLIN SUSPECT Starring Clter and Dennis Quaid Directed by Peter Yates . At ~ohawk and Crossgates Mall Cmemas RatedR · Willing suspension of disbelief: a literary term most can recall frCJm high school English clast>, and an apt phrase to use i:n discussion of the new mllvie ''Suspect.\ Starring Cher (-~'Witches of Eastwick\) a11d Deimis Quaid (\Innerspace\ ), \Suspect\is an involving . courtroom drama/mystery .. Directed by Peter Yates, the film maintains a quick pace that draws the audience into the heart of the drama, keeping .its attention from obvious diversions of reality. Yet, in all, providing .satisfying entertainment for the viewer witho11t insulting the intelligence.- ''Suspect'' begills. yiolently, CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 Page 19 AR·T~S & FILMS Jim and Buddy at the Movies with tile sUicide of~· respectea judg ~ and the brutal killing of one {)f his aides. Cber plays a lawrer given the C!ase of a hom~less derelict who is chargetl with the m11rder. The man accused is deaf and. dumb, addiJJg extra deliberation and tension to the ;courtroom scenes. In the C«Jllrse of the trail, Dellnis Quaid, as a juror, notices so~e inconsistencies in the .testimony and attempts to unanswered questions. For the : viewer, there are numerous •· improbabilities that occur ; within the fUm,. aiding its finely · wz:app~d conclusion that are put aside m the interest of en- · tertainment. It would be so easy to sit back and dissect the fiction from the fact, but that is not the point of \Suspect.\ The rp.ovie provides a tense, in- f2 volving experience that is most ~ enjoyable. ~ ·-contact Cher. Her subsequent use ,()f his. infor'mation con- stitutes 'jury tampering.' en- terillg a major moral dilemma int() the movie's ~ction. Thus, the at1dience becomes en- wr<~p()ed into the mesh of \StiSpeet.\ Cher continues to improve as Q an actress, giving a per- ffi formance every bit as => professional asthat in \Witches a. · of Eastwick.\ She uses her facial e~pressions well in \Suspect;'' especially in the The cast of \\Aiha.laes of August\ Cher first strugglEs with the ide~ of having a jUF\~r belp her win,. with the threat of disbarment, and a mistrial hang:irlg over her head if caugbt. Eventually- her 'and Quaid become .an ersazt detective team, lln()Overing a judicial conspirac;y that frees , her client and S()lves the murcler. The story is completed in a nice, neat fashion, leaving no tight courtroom scenes where they added much to the dramatic impact. Dennis Quaid's character as the juror-sleuth is slightly unrealistic, but he handles it with an intelligent passion that allows for some believability. As director, Peter Yates keeps the movie f()cused on the mystery, rather than the Cher/Quaid matehup, placing the audience's attention in the right place, the action. Film Grade ... B+ IHIS WEEKS' ON-CAMPUS MOVIES THE IIITCHER l: A tense thriller 1hat stars C. Tl:'iqmas Howell , 13~ an unsuspecting driv~~ w:~~:p,ickSi upthe1 . psycopathic I<Uier. RutgerHauer, and is challenged t>vthe murdere.rto stop him from killing again. A great movie to get close to your date witil. Rated R. ~ri, Sat & Sun at 7, 9, & 11 . BLAIJE RUNNER Starring Harrison Ford as a futuristic cop in New York City, this movie is .a frightening look ahead at what might be. Directed by- Ridley Scott,. the film is also a visual masterpiece. Rated R. Tues at 7,9, 11. All films are $1 for. Union Students with m. All fillllS are shov111 at the College Center Auditorium. Witty, Wistful 'Whales' By ILMARVANDERER \THE WHALESOF AUGUST\ Libby Strong- Bette Davis Sarah Webber· Lillian Gisb Mr. Maranov-Vincent Price Tisha DCJughty- Ann Sothern Joshua Brackett - Harry Carey,Jr. Alive Films presents a film directed by Lindsay Anderson. Running Time: 90 minutes. At Cinema II (N.Y .. C. ). \Alive\ is certainly an ap- propriate . operating word for this prodtLction company (Alive Films), which features the talents of legendary performers Bette Davis, Lillian Gish, Vincent Price, and Ann Sothern who work on an \intimate scale\ to make \The Whales of August\ .come to. life in grand cinematie proportions. In this sense, \Whales\ ,is filled with simple truths which become eloquent edicts when uttered tw these incomparable stars . Thus, the film manages tD create a resounding emotional impact using only a series of witty remarks. 11le scale ofan epic. In fact, the ]lr:ologue, which features Libby ~nd Sarah- as young women ,(jbserving s;uch whales along 11te coast o:f Maine, provides ~uch an ex::tensive epoch for later references to alienated children, dec:eased husbands, ~nd a ml.lltitude of other events, it almost ~ppears that the ::;isters have outlived their time. Despite a witty refutation by M:r. Maran01v, a suave :Russian , Please, no food <IE' clrink allowed. The story, written by David Berry, is based on his play about the wistful existence of two elderly, widowed sisters who share an island home. Lillian Gish stars as Sarah Webber, who cares for her blind, elder sister Libby, por· trayed by Bette Davis. Despite the limitations of her role, Miss Emigre portrayed with im- l)ecca ble compos w-e by Vinc-ent Frice, who, while visiting the. :Sisters in search of refuge ft»r the winter, declares tll:at \one's time is one's time to tile end,\ the 'limitations of time :are very visible. Wilen :Sarah's chilc:lhood friend Tisha Doughty rEveals that her ,(!riving license was suspended, slle laments that for her, '\Six months is a very long time.·~ As 'Jlisha, Ann S()thern glows .with tllil witty ex::uberance wllich cltaracterize(f: her previous r()les, and in this scene, ptovides tlle. film's most em- IJathetic moment. The passage of time is also noted by Joshua Br-i:!ckett, a hardboiled h<m- dyman port~ayed with rustic .savvy oy Ha[\ry Carey, Jr., who becomes wary of new residents an.d the changes they bring to tllis island. . Davis manages to display the flair associated with her previous perfv'rmances, while imparting th~ almost subliminal feelings of misery which torment Libby; Thus, she raises her chin to a haughty, vet elegant, position to reflect Libby's memories of her former beauty, b:ut soon reverts to a distant, mournful gaze as Libby brushes a lock of her dead husband's hair against her cheek. Lillian Gish's refined facial expr~ssions also provide memorable moments, including 'a scene · in which Libby threatens Sarah's complacency by criticizing her need for \being so busy.\ Here, Miss Gish carefully raises an eyebrow and responds simply, yet effectually, \.As you like to. say, dear; \ Although this scenario is rather ordinary, it is presented, as suggested by the reference t() enormous ?(hales in its title, on In this semse, however, ac- elaimed director Lindsay Allderson's attempt to create a '' 4 C()mbination of character and :atmosphere\ for a film in which ·' 4 landscape alld setting play a 'major part ill people's lives\ cloes not quitE succeed. Rather, his cinematic treatment of David Berry's screenplay is desrgned to rivet attention on the often subtle actions and Lnteractions ()f these legendary stars. In ad«litioll, Anderson's use of several fade-<Jats, followed b)l short pauses, sllggests an effort to divide the film accorditlg to theatrical sc.enes and acts, rather tllan :maintaining the continuity of a Ih~tion pictare. Thus, despite ali ambitiolls effort to \exte11d\ th:is story tbro11gh the use of Elltirely on-location cinematogra])hy, \The Whales fJf August,\ in its transition from stage tQ screen, essen- tially retai11s tile captivating ill1irnacy of a stage per- f()rmance. , Film Rating: * * * l!a ... I. ·L ~ii1G:. THE VVRI\\TING CEN_TER

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, October 29, 1987 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS Howard Hughes Medical Institute announces its 1988 'competition for Doctoral Fellowships in Biological Sciences. Sixty fellowships will be awarded to outstanding ~candidates for the promotion of research careers in biological sciences. The fellowships are for three years with an option of extension for up to two years. A stipend of $12,300 will be offered for 12-month tenures and a $10,700 cost-of-education allowance will be paid directly to the fellow's institution in lieu of tuition and fees. Competition is open to U.S. citizens of nationals and foreign nationals. Application deadline is November 13, 1967. GRE tests .must be taken by December 12, 1987 for submission of scores. For more information and applications contact: Fell<>wship Office, National Research Council, 2101 Con· stit:.Ltion Ave., Washington, DC 20418 (202) 334~2872. The American Society of Naval Engineers announces its 1988-89 annual competition for scholarship awards to en- courage students to enter the field of Naval Engineering and to provide support to Naval Engineers seeking advanced education in the field. Awards up to $1,750 each will be made to undergraduates for the final one or two years of undergraduate education. Support for graduate education leading to a master's degree is limited to one year. · Application deadline is February 15, 1988. Contact the Financial Aid Office for more information. ALUMNI NEWS •• , Aimee Levine, a 1983 .graduate of UnionC()llege, has joined the law film of Willkie Farr & Gallagher .in New York City as an associate attorney. She received her Juris Doctor from Columbia University -school of Law in 1987. Ms. Levine resides in New York City. Willkie Farr & Gallagher is a general practice law firm based in New York City with offices in Washington, DC and Paris, France. The firm employs over 290 lawyers. ·CLUB NEWS Halloween Visit to St. Clare's-Saturday; October ~1 any student who wishes to visit long term patients at St. Clare's Hospital~ please meet at College Center at 3 p.m. T.r~nsportation will be provided. Wear costumes and bring some hf;lppiness to the lives of the sick by your presence and the .flowers that we will deliver. For further details contact Dr. Joan 370-6087. Reeeption iu Rectory- November 1st f()llowing Fr. Mike Sullivan's introductory talk at the 7:30 p.m. Liturgy there will be a re~eption at St. John's Rectory f()r the Union Community. All welcome to come and chat 'With Fr. Mike informally. A Parish Retrea't: A Time of Graee-Talks will be at 7:30 p.m. each evening Monday, November 2nd tllrough Thur- sday, November 5th Monday- \To Be Born Again\ Tuesday~ · \The Healing Love of .. Jesus, \Wednesday-\The Call to Be Church,\ Th ursday-\Our · Response to Christ's Call.\ Fr. Mike will celebrate Mass each day at 12:15 p.m. in St. John's Church. Newman Club-Monday, November 2nd will not meet so members may attend the Parish Retreat. Solo Dramatist Coming,_ Roberta Nobleman, actress, · teacher, author and spirited pilgrim, will appear at the Dominican Retreat House, 1945 · Union Street, on November 9th at '7:30 p.m. Roberta will por- tray four characters. as she performs \All That I Am,\ a play by Irene Mahoney, In her performance she will highlight the lives of four women and their intimate relationships . with the male clergy in their lives. Each of her monologues will include the use of props and costumes.. Tickets are $10 but st11dent discounts are available through Sr. Joan 370-6087. The Newman Club will attend as a group in place of the weekly meeting. Tutorial Program-Union College students can be. used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten Aides, Computer · Math Aides, Library Aides and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson, 386-4364. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Liturgy may meet with Friar Phil at 6:30 · p.m. in the church to rehearse. CLASSIFIEDS. ···-· TYPISTS-Hundreds weekly at home.! Write: P.O. Box 17, Clark, NJ 07066 \Lr.5T.Er-l M~tl'l, LA-y- Of'') I'rr'l No-IINVOI-V£0 ·11\l K. 1 LOOk, !·I'YI. 6.DNN~ }\IT ,...._......, 'IOJJ Now, BuT\ J' VVI RfALL y NOTrJU.liT!sJG WITt\ 'i ()U'f?. w 'ffl ... I / 'JOV OR Af\'{Tt!ltl& Llh'f 1.1-t.tT.~ ~1'1--... ~so w 1-tll-'f, So :r \\IC.l\E\-0 '{OV\'~ TETt~ 1~ 1 .l3lEP D£AL ~ I'N1 NDTf'VhffflNb w 1111· '1. ov DR'.ANY- -rl+1 N c; L lk.E Itt AT ,, PART-TI:ME Hc.me Mailing Program! E:xcelTeJtt income! Details, send self-addressed, stamped envelope:. West, Box 5877, Hillside, NJ 07~05 $10 - $600 weekf~.:up mailing circular. Rush self-addressed staroped envelope. Dept AN- 7CC-F A, 9300 Wilshire, Suite 4'J, Beverly Hills, CA 90212. Sharp, clean cut and ambitious. Does this describe you? Our compaay has a full time opening in o11r- new local office to close-tele]lbone orders in Capital District. Earn $1.'200 monthly and <lependable vehicle needed. Cal:l Mr. O'Brien, 756-3191 or apply in · person at 33 Main St., Ravena, N.Y . FREE~ Trip t<J D~yton~ plus commission IhDner. Going to Florida? Go for free. Take advantage of promoting the No. 1 spring break trip. If in- terested, call Designers of Travel, 1-800-45l~9074 im- mediately! s~k\ Oft +he Qtr. FOR SALE: 84 Sunbird; 5 speed, A-C, sunroof, AM-FM: ··stereo, cruise control, .tilt wheel; must see $4,300, 78:J-7665. FOUND: 2 jean jackets and 1 sweater found in CC-See Mrs. . Marra in 408 CC. For sale; handwtJven Guatenulan materialS, clothing, and accessories for • sale by appointment. Wille assortment includi;ng old collectors' pieces. Call 864-5419. LOST: Men's '~gold\ Lorus Quartz Analog Watch. Leather band. Broken clasp~ Please call x4001. · The FUm Committee presents: The Hitcher, 10-30 -11-lat 7, 9, 11 p.m. Blade Runner, 10--3 at 7, 9, 11 p,m. TtMp. 5thdult l·f~.pM lw~ug Tt\E. C.tiO.IU. OF '\'ll.t.:Oii'ENT~ Engi11eering-Art- Drafting Suppiies •Rembrandt •Berol • LiqtJ,itex •Pan1one •Mori.lla •X-Acto •C-Thru •Letraset •Ganson •Winsor- Newton , These are just a few brand names we carry ... 10% STUDENT DISCOUNT 151 Erie Boulevard .Sc.henectady, NV (5·18) 374~1655 - - - - ·!! - Sc Jo D~ m) wi pe Wl an Tl I Pt HE , Ju BE T{] D1 co fr1 01 Bl d~ If v~ yo .$3 s~

CONCORDIENSIS, October 29,. 1987 Page 21 PERSONALS Scary,.Banger, Nature Woman, Jorge, M, . Ricky, Russ, Bri, Danny & Bufster, Thanks f()r my B~ay. Jt was amazing. Wbat did you say about that peatl necklace? Melissa: Missing you from 12,000 miles away. ZG Never forget how much l 'love you. Til the next.morning we smile ... Always,SB Mounteb&nks is N·ott just To the freshest one: Here's to wrestling shoes, a laugh box, ~sme, coracomandibulars, soccer parties, a champagne bottle full of beer and most of all to an exceptional team! May • our friendship always make you ..,.....;, . i:IA,we. Did you lose a light denim jacket up near Potter? Call ·· x4376. Congratulations new Pi Alphas • - you're the BESrJ::! Gail, ~ou are still my IDOL! ''Vinnie'' Delta Gamma pledges- You know the songs, te coffee club.: what's next? Awesome to have rou all aboard! ! -A sis Buba, Thank you for the· most in- . credible weekend. You made my 21st the best I've had. Look What. exactly is a chooclt anyway? ltheatre! Come to Theatre Fest! · Catby, I've missed you! · forward to many more. I toa!it this Asti to you and to us! · Love~AK TRACEY FAY, Congrat1,llatlons on Gamma Phi Beta! Wen4y 'Flying pigs glow in the dark. . L2: What do you want to do this · summer- hijack a cruise line? I hope you aSk me to dinner again - only 'if Nanny's . cooking Heather and Ashley, You've got the look! · . though.. Love; Your 'ET Love, autcb. Judy - Thanx- You're th,e best · -l.@nzl- Castaldo Betsy and Stacey Remember me????? Leslie To the New Pledge Class of Delta Delta Delta congratulations! ! ! with love .frorn Japan, (Leslie) ok $0 you've done it 'in public. But tell me, does it glow in the dark? If you forgot to make reser· . vations for the dinner theatre, you can still see the show for · $3.00 at 5:45 and 8.:1S Fri. a11d Sat. Bethie and Stanley, I'll be home late sweetie! r_rhere is football and basketball practice tonight! I love you! Lina and Gladys J .H. Thanks .for being there for me, for putting up with me, and for ~eaching me \Foo$ball. '' · Love, Yo.ur bubblehead Eligible Indian male seeks attractive domestic woman to . cook vegetarian food and massage scalp with mustard oil. Leslie & Lester .. To· my one and only room- mate - yfl!l must stop talking to m~ at 2:00 in the a.m. It's just a joke! 'Love, Lina BLOOM COUNTY rJF CO(J!f~e .1 A f?l)fJet£ WHIIIVIMY / WMO!ff?tJW :r &O o/'1 WITH AN IACOOCA API't.6-PI~, BU.- lfMB!f/CIIN pm;ff\' Love UNA To our new pledges: We want to welcome you to your new home. We are so proud of you aU. You're truly the greatest! Delta lDve - the sister.s. To the Women- Here's to the Big Red Star! Go for it.! --'Scam Master and . Spelling Bee Champ · Does Scammaster really like snow? ''You've got the look\ for Anaconda K on Saturday! G.L.; Join the Star~Trackers! l We've missed you! Cheetah, Familiarity is the spice of life . The Horoscoper : To those boys at ZOU-8orry • your personals didn't get in last · week, but you know how it is • : Work hard; play hard, 1 ft. hard ... A Richmond.girl Octobermess - Don't come as yourself , Eh, Happy -B-day! Taste your . Wendy, Shoot for a star! A. special thanks to the brothers of Theta Delta Chi - As always, we had the best time! We should To our fearless leader .. first on the kiss list- you're awesome! 1 -The Women · taste, tonight! No elephants at Beta. Taboo isn'tfor 19 yr. olds. Love, EM Coisy, Continue working hard do it again real soon! _:The sisters of Delta Delta Delta Buba, Stick with .it. Don't give up·! Love you very much! AK Ping • Pong -! Well aw-right- 1'hanks JT. but pleast tell PH2 Dot to be saps! JT J1.111ior Ashley- How was your Sunday morning breakfast date?.? -Heather G. Jen- Who's that dead-head with the nice eyes? -The Women KBH- Heard it through the grapevine- you've been named honorary raisin leader! New Marketing Director Ned \Crack'em Up\ : . Katston was going to teU . , the story about the priest, the rabbi and tbe girdle salesman, but he has apparently choked in the clutch. Ned soon will be moving back to shipping where, he should be happy to learn, his audience will be about two. X/IDS •. 1\ I JI/5T J70N'T KNOW MY~t;tF fiNYMOf?e_ I , 'cause it h.as to pay off S()oner or later. If it's too late, then we can go to Spenser's Institute together. Love, Vort. .)MAR: Hijos de ... Rent-a- Center is looking for you! Your Latin American Bod is missed. -The Silly Americanos inllO Paul, thanks for straightening . me out. My only question now is: Whe,n will you teach me to dance, or do I have to be with Nanc and Mags to get lessons? IT Room 211: Keep those bananas out of reach, and remember . .. we pump •.. you up I Debbie & Chrissy, Who's ·the social deviant?! I'm not the champion Mexican player, can you say the same? -D Sue- say \sex\ (nice mug!) Happy birthday, Steve 1'! -The Smith girls Why does Pam like licorice and hate coffee when Chris likes coffee and hates licorice? Kelly G. Park- 1 hope your birthday was fun ... Sorry 1 missed it! -Prof Lanzl-Castaldo Maybe you •eally ARE a dog, now that you've offered to follow me around for awhile! Was ·J.McA impressive in the College Bowl or what? 'IIieatre j'est '8 7 presents Mountebanks Cabaret Oc~. 29, 10 p.~ CoUege Center Why Nott Come?

,. ~~e 22 CONCORVIENSIS, OctofJer 29J 1987 _ Hoc ey :Preview tC·EM.EN. SOON THE COMETH • s • More Experience = Plflyoff Bid? By DO~G LLOYD This Saturday when Union hosts Norwich it will mark the beginning of the 1987-88 hockey season. The Skating Dutchmen come into Saturday's game like all teams entering their opener; with excitement and wonder. After last year's disappointing season and the .pre-season losses of Keith Robertson and Toby O'Brien, what does this year's team. have to be excited about? Well ... _ Last year's team was stacked with ten freshmen, four sophomores, four juniors, and two seniors. Those freshmen from last year can almost be considered juniors after the amount of ice team t}\ey compiled. They were thrown oil to the ice and expected to perform and perfonn they did. Even with such a young team the Dutchmen still managed to play their Divisioll Il opponents to a 9-12 record, losing three of those games by just one goal. The team returns this year with almost the same squad physically, but mentally they will be much tougher and more experienced that last year's , .. ... squad. This year's team, despite the crucial blows of losing 6'3\ 230 lbs. junior defensiveman Keith Robertson and starting senior goalie Toby O'Brien, can look forward to the return of three of the four leading scorers and the ten, now veteran, sophomores. Nelson Said (13 goals 21 assists}, co-captains Gary Temush (19, 9), and Scott Cyr (9,9) littered the nets with 41 of the team's93 goalsanda.total of 80 points last season. Combined, the freshmen with their hard work tallied 66 points (20,46). Defensively, Bill Snow {1,0), Scott Manley (5,5), Pete Cotler (0.5), and Mark Goguen will anchor things behind .the blue line in front of sophomore goalie Ron Kinghorn. Ron was thrust into the hot seat early last year and played well enough to sport a 6 win 8 loss record. To back Ron up this season are two other sophomores Terry Rathwell and Bob Grady. If this year's crop of freshmen can play on the level of last year's then Union is about to enter a very enjoyable season. The newcomers include Brian Lucey (D), Bill Sedergren (D), 1987 UNION COI.LEGE FOOTBALL STATISTICS 7 Game Totals RUSHING Player Gms Att Yds Avg TD Con Ryan Mason 7 50 269 5.4 2 0 Da·rre11 Shepherd 6 65 217 3.3 5 0 Steve Hayes 7 44 107 2.4 0 0 Chris Duffy 6 19 69 4.7 0 0 Bryan ·Palumbo 5 24 46 1.9 0 0 Sean McLaughlin 1 2 14 7.0 0 0 George McAvoy 7 1 .13 13.0 0 0 Jim Poirier 7 48 3 0 0 Darryl Ti·ggle 1 1 0 o.o 0 0 Tim Valachovic 4 11 -31 o.o 1 0 Mike Gargiulo 4 16 -14 0 D Cecil Bright 7 1 _.2~ D D Jim LaFrance 6 1 - 1 0 0 Team 7 1 - 3 0 0 Union Totals 7 284 687 2.4 8 0 Opponents 7 326 1093 3,4 14 0 PASSING Player Gllis Att Comp Pet Yds TO .Jim Poirier 7 134 69 51.5 971 9 Mike Gargiulo 4 73 32 43.8 451 5 Tim Valachovic 4 13 3 23.1 54 0 ·Mark Stachowiak 7 2 0 0.0 0 0 .Jason Krause 7 1 () 0.0 0 0 Union Totals 7 223 104 46.6 1482 14 Opponents 7 133 73 54.9 869 4 RECEIVING Mark Spease {F), Terry Campbell (F),· Jolln Mcintosh (F), and. Tom K()ester {D). After attending· some of the tryouts and three practices this week, there is.onethingthat can be said about tlli:S :year's squad. It is one that is solid, Last year coach Motrisson struggled to have two healtlly, talented, and experienced lines. '.rbis year he will h~ve threeve~:y solid lines, and a fourth that might no~ score many goals, but should not give up ma0;y eitller. All' around, the sticks look better and the wheels faster and stronger than at tbis time last year. All in all, I lmk forward to a stre?ng season for tll.e Skating Dutchmen. Satllr~y's Norwich game does not count on the record books bat it shl()uld be interesting to watt!h and see how this year's sDpaomores play and whether the hot sticks of Said, Temusll, and Cyr can continue in their ways~ Scotty Cyr is currently injlll'ed but will be back to play for the season opener in a week. So, venture on up to Achilles ~nd cheek out a team that is worth checldng out. Saturday., October 31, 1987- 7:30p.m. The Skating Dutchmen vs. NorWich U:nlversity_ Tickets on sale now at the Achilles Rink B.ox Office. $1.00 w.UC LD. Cros.s Co·untry . . . . Continued from page 24 .fQr thell' state. meet. Runnmg . · over the same 5000 meter : finished 24th fu. 2!l: 33, Martocci course, the Lady Dutchmen will 36th in 30:09, and Mart;inez 45th loo~ t? improve over their in 30:33. Jim Campqli (31 :23) Inv1tat10nal performances. The and.BobLindyberg {34:10) were men, in tutn, will be hosting \ Union's fourth. and fifth runners Colgate on Friday aftemoon at in that race. the Schenectady Golf Course, This weekend the wome11 the site of their state meet a travel back to Albany, this time weeK later. · U~ion Equestrian Team Saddles Up By SHARO:N P .ANAS. and KRISTIN DAWS()N · programs, incl11ding Skidmore, in the Beginner W-l'-C division. Cazet;tovia, ;1nd St. ~wrence. A cornip.endable performanc~ On Saturday, October 24, the Union Equestrian 'l'eam took to the saddle to ce>mpete in the first Intercollegiate. Hor;se Show Association shew of the year. The show took place at tbr riding center of St. Lawrence University, a long five--hotll\ drive through t:he lleautiful Adirondack Far-lc 011 some rather questionable lllld un- paved roads. 1Jni<Jn's team of five faced SQme stiff com- petition from many excellent De~p1te the small. siZe 9f the . w~s~ alsf) . ·made J?Y Kevbt Umon team, they fared ex- Homkel 1 secretary in the tremely well. Advanced Walk-Trot division. Bringing home a blue ribbon was Equestrian Club president Chris Wood with an excellent ride in the Beginner Walk-Trot· Canter division. Fifth place ribbons were won by Kristin· Dawson, treasurer, in the Intermediate Equitation Over Fences division, and. Sharon P11nas, vice president. in the Beginner W-'I'·G division. New member, Peter Weiss brought home a sixth place ribbon, also Coached by Heather Cannell of Zallybay. Farms, the team has high hopes of a ·fun and successful season. The Union team · faces their next com- petition on November 14 at Cazenovia College. · Club members iriterested in showing sould contact one of the officers mentioned above. Congratulations to the team and good luck in. Cazenovia I ' colleges with exte11sive riding YdsPerGm 38.4 36.2 ~5.3 L4. 98 9.2 o.o ' 2.1 o.o 0.0 98.1 156. 1 Int YdsPe rOm' 10 139.6 3 112.7 1 13. s 2 o.o 0 11.0 16 211.7 5 124.1 UNION TEAM STATISTICS OPPONENTS Differenc~? Poi.nts First Downs Roshing Passin<J Penalty 191 124 40 6.9 15 20/8 16 24 . - 50.7 Fumbles/J:.O:st Int~rcepti~ns·. T.urn:ov.ers · \-. Total P!Lays To't<l:l ,i' ~·rds YdsPerGm YdsPerl?lay· l?enalties/Yds. . ._il69 \309 ,,B ·, 4 .3 66/5!>4_ SCORE BY QUARTERS: union 66 36 . 48 Opponents 24 59 43 RE:CO:RD ( 3- 4) F&M 34 Rochester 24 UNION lB UNlON 36 UNION 30 RP-I 29 <;;oast Guard · Uni<>n 26 Uni<>n 20 Hobart 3 Colby 7 WPI 17 Union 17 Uni.on 42 158 97 53 •. 31 7 17/12 5 17 . . . -- 459', •• 196~ . 2.80. 3 . - 4. 3 ... 44/423' + 33 + 27 -11 + 32 + 8 3/+4 ..:.u • . ... ;.., 7 . ;: t 48 + 207 \: ~49·. 5 + 0.0 -22/-131 Pts •. Per Game 41 --191 27.3 l2 --158 22.6 1 1 .100 (est) 2,8QO (e1>t) 1.,_667 t( 800 (es.t) · 4, QOO. (est) 4,787 (est) 0 .(.est.) Player Gms Cts Yds Avg TD Con YCJsPerGm CtsPer<lm '1att Smith 5 22 354 16.1 George McAvoy 7 23 321 13.9 Jim LaFrance 6 22 307 13.9 Cecil Bright 7 22 285 12.9 Bill Conklin 7 2 67 33.5 5 0 2 2. 3 0 2 1 i 0 70.8 45. a 51.2 40.7 9.6 4-.4 3 .3 3. 7 3.1 ~.3 Thurs~ay night on the 1urf, the field hockey team beat Middlebury 3-2 for !he first time ever. i• ... il c d a p c [ 'I n tl

CONCOR,IJlENSIS,- OctQbl!r 29, 1987 Page .23 Q!nncnr~iensis SPORTS Athlete of the Week By CHRIS HINCKL~Y This season has not been the The success of the men's only successful one of Dave's. Soccer Team. over the last four In his freshman year he .earned the award of Most Valuable years and player David · Freshman and he was fourth on Tweksbury have a lot in the team's scoring list. In his common. Since Pave joined the sophmnore year Dave led the ' varsity squad in his freshman team in points with fellow year he has co~tributed and led · teamitiate Chris Hartman. This .the team at the striker position perf~nnance was good enough In 1986 the New York Mets · to establishing a win- li '!f;,.\%\· to make him a first team won the World Series and the ningtradition. This year the AU .... American. In Dave's junior New York Giants wQn the Super team is again e11joying a win- year he met with success and Bowl. In 1987 the Minnesota . ning l'!easonand Dave is leading made the All-American team. Twins won the World Series and the scoring a~tack. In the teams ,. . Da1Ve is a senior at Union and the Vikings ... well,let's not get last game the goals. that Dave ~,. he majors in mechanical carried away. One thing is for scored alone could have Dave Tewksbury engineering. He came to Union certain, the Minnesota Twins, defeated the opponents. A.s a from Livonia,. New York where at 150-1 odds at the beginning of result Dave has. earned himself vs. a team from' Rochester. This he played at Livonia High the season, won the World the title of Athlete of the Week.. time it was in Rochester against School. In high school Dave's Series in seven games over the Previous to last week's bjg · the city's UniverSity. On the . accomplishments were also St. Louis:Cardinals. win over Vassar, the team ·Rochester turf Union once very impressive. Twice lte was This year it was quite a suffered two. tough and close agaln lost, 3-1. The ·only Union · All--Uvingston and All-Greater surprise that the Twins were in losses. The first was a home goal wasscm·ed by Dave. Roch All State and received an the World Series, but those of turf loss to RIT. RIT was at the In the massacre at Vassar the All-American nomi11ation. you who watched all seven time ranked seventh in the team won by a score of 12-2. In Congratulations again to Dave games can attest to the fact that nation and Union needed a big the game Dave scored five on a fitle performance last week it was a great series. It was the win but came· up short in a 1-0 goalsandmorethandoubledhis and gpod luck to him and his first time in history that the ·loss. The nex:t outing was again seasonpoint-total. team the restoftheseason. home team had won every --------------- ......... --------.--,------------------1· game. The vocalness of the crowd played a large· role in Union Ultimate Frisbee Surprises Many in· the Sectionals The Ultimate Frisbee team took a roadtrip to Geneva, New York the weekend of October 24 and 25, to play in the N.Y. State Sectionals Tournament. The team put on ali impressive showing moving from being ·' · seeded i2tht() oeirrg··seedel;t6th in the section. · In the first game against Cornell \Shake Union defeated the 9th seeded team .by a score of 12-8. Some of the key I favor. . In the ·second game against 6th seeded University of Rochester, the whole team had to work. Key plays from fresh:m.en Jordan Sommer, John Jadhon, and Ira Gurland ~· 'helpetl\'·rnake ·-th~ ···difference. However, ·most of the credit goes to the .infallible hands of sophomore Dave Babkow. Babkow turned bad throws .into points f~r Union, through in- a13-8 upset win for Union. In the third gam~ of the first day 'I'he Union \Critters tired from the previous games, took on their most formidable op- ponent of the day, the University of Buffalo, seeded number 3 in the section. Union played .some awesome frisbee, but came up short inthe ,end by a sc()re of 13-6. The giants of Buffalo, used to playing in heavy winds, were able to reach the disc with their definite heigltt advantage. however, it. was the team's persistance and a,gilits that kept Union in the game at all time3. . each game. Both the spectators in the Metrodome and Busch Stadiwn were wabelievably loud. Of course, the noise was ever more present in Minnesota than in St. _Louis. There have been several comparisons as to the noise level. Some have said it was like being on a runway; others have said it was like being at a rifle range. However, everyone has agreed ~th the fact that the crowd played a major role in the Twins' vic- tory. The crowd w.as so loud . that outfielders couldn't hear · · each other, infielders couldn't alert the catcher of a steal and the wnpire had to rely totally on hand signals for balls and strikes. The interesting thing about the Twins is that few people have ever heard of their players. Kirby Puckett is . probably a familiar name to most baseball fans, but how 'about Greg Gagne, Kent Hrbek, Dan Gladner of Tim Lautiner. These are probably as close to . household names as Tom Kelly . (the manager) or Mike .!Pasquale (I don't know who he :is ~ither). Don Baylor is on~_of Not In- the. Box Sco·re by Mark Zimmerman the only big names on the team and showed why in game six when he hit a tremendous home run to tie the game and turn the tide on St. Louis. Whitey Herzog, the Cardinals manager, tried a strategy that ended up ba<!kfiring. He went for the series ending victory in game six pitching his best pitcher, John Tudor. The theory looked good until Baylor'-s home rlin and from then on the Twins just demolished the Cards going on to an 11-5 blowout. The following night the Twins were not about to be stopped in their own park before 55,000 plus people. No one can take this honor · away from the Twins. Yet the big question nowadays is: \Who is going to win next year\? It's hard to believe but the Twins and Cardinals are already out of contention to win next year according to all of the gambling wagers.During the last ten years no team has even entered the World Series in consecutive years, let alone won it. The Yankees of '77 and '78 were the last team to do it. As a matter of fact, the 1980s have been the only decade in which there has not been a repeat winner. The w.ay. ttungs go nowadays the Twins should just relish this moment and not even attmpt to repeat. Of course, this is ludicrous but the rsult is vir- tually going to be the same thing that has happened to every other team in the past. The Twins will always be remembered for this year's World Series. Their manager was the youngest non-playing manager ever; they won the fewest regular season games of any World Series team and their fans were the loudest in sports history. Who knows, maybe the TWins will repeat? No, I don't think so either. ••••••••••••••••••• 'Since Union won 2 out of the 3 games on the first day. they were inVited back to play again onS11nday. This time, however, it was. & single elimination tournament. The Critters, now seeded 6th, were matched up against 3rd seeded Ruffalo again. The C.ritters handled the frisbee with incredible tact, but the gusting winds blew it out of reach and right into the hands of the larger players of Buffalo. The.final score was another 13-6 loss for Union. DUTCHMEN SCOREBOARD 1 0/22 - 1 0/29 Union 'Critters' at N.Y.S. Sectionals All in all, the tournament turned Clut to be a huge s11ccess for the Union \Critters.\ They defeated two higher t~ams and gave some of the best teams in the section .a run for the frisbee . The !lefeat of two higher seeded teams and impressive play by freshman team members holds promise for. strong winter and spring seasons. Watch for Union Oltimatein the future! players in this game were Co-captains Jeff . S!,J.oemate, Dave Reisman, and Lou Schick. They handled the disc w~ll, and made key .defensiveturnovers that put the score in Union'S - . credible grabs at the disc. Many fine throws were made by all, but . notably upperclassqtan Tom Walsh, Andre Haddad, and Mike Mulcare made key passes that turned a 5-3 deficit into ... 'SPORTSWEEK 10/29-11/4 10/29 Women's. Soccer Volleyball FootbaH Menes Socce.r ~Volleyball - \ -· . Thursday s .. aturday Monday vs Williams 1 :30 . at Russell Sage 6:00 10/31 vs. Williams 1:30 vs. St. Lawrence 11 :00 at Skidmore 6:00 11/2•' at Albany State 7:00 vs. North Adams 2:00 Uhion42 Uniono Union 1 l;lnion t2 Union3 Union4 UnionO ·Union 3 Football Men's Soccer Fleld Hockey Volleyball Williams Tourney Union 2 Union o Union 2 Union 0 Union3 Coast Guard 44 RIT 1 Rochester 3 Vassar 2 Oswego 0 Siena2 (OT) St. Lawrence 1 Middlebury 2 Mt. Holyoke 1 Williams 2 Westfield 0 Bates 2 Trinity 2 Women's Soccer Union 0 Union2 Albany 1 Oneonta 1 ••••••••••••••••• ., ~- .....

Page 24 Fleld Hockey Beats Middlebury. 3·2 October 29, 1987 ' . Dutchmen drop to 3-4 . . . stumble again&t Rochester A Game of Inches T.he Massacre of Vassar By CARL R. FRIEDRICH .JR. The men's soccer team they could not finish with an equalizing goal. · Last Saturday the Dutchmen traveled to Rochester where By ANDREW MILLER Football is a game of inches! Whoever first laid down these prophetic words must have had Saturday'·s Union- Coast Guard game in mind. An inch, maybe two, was the difference between winning or losing, or more specifically, in this case, tying. The story this week has more twists and turns th8{1 a roller- coaster. The game line followed an afterschool special plot in which the forgotten third string quarterback comes in and turns the gam~ around in miraculous fashion to bring the team to victory, well almost. The wishbone offense of Coast Guard was in a word: devastating. The Bears ground attack ate up 304 yards on 71 carries resulting in 6 touclt- downs. To show how potent the Coast Guard's ground game was you have to take into ac- count that Union had allowed .a total' of only 20 touchdowns on the ground in 52 games under Bagnoli. Last year's team allowed 7 all season. The Bears six td's will stay in the mind .of coach Bagnoli for many years to come. The game appeared headed for a rout as Coast Guard whipped up 3 touchdowns iil tile first half while shutting Union down, allowing only 7 points. With the halftime score 21·7, and Dutchmen quarterback Tim Valachovic ().3 on pass attempts, Coach Bagnoli knew it was time for a change. The surprise call went out to Mike Gargiulo. Gargiulo led Union to a 9-0 season in '85 and sat out '86 with a broken foot. Many thought Gargiulo would start this season, instead the senior found himseU at third string .. Gargiulo jwnped into the game and quickly moved the Dutchmen downfield. A 23 yard td strike to Union's outstanding wide receiver Jim LaFrance was complemented by another LaFrance touchdown reception, this one a 15 yard bUllet with 12:51 remaining. Gargiulo was moving the team, but it was a total catch up effort. Coast Guard's wishbone offense kept cranking out the points. Bears quarterback Ty Rinoski had four rushing touchdowns and more importantly came through with big scores to match Gargiulo and the Dut- clunen effort in their third quarter rush to get ba~k in the game. The Bears led 37-20 after the second Gargiulo to LaFranc.e touchdown. Coast Guard recovered a surprise UniDn onside kick attempt and quickly drove 46 yards on 9 plays for the score. Bear halfback Dan Kenny capped off the scoring drive with a seven yard explosion. The extra point was good and with 9:27 left in the game the Dutchmen found themselvestrailing by 24 points, down 44-20. At 9: 27left in the game Union came alive, and in a big way. Rich Samuelson recovered a fumbled punt for the Dutchmen ·. stumbled through the past week, losing key matchEs to R.I.T. and The Universitr of Rochester. The team t:hen played a farce at Vassar where on the Bears 26 yard line. A gutsy 4th and ten 13-yard completion to George McAvoy kept the drive alive. On first down Steve Hayes took the swing out pitch from Gargiulo, • fumbled it, scooped it back up and lwnbered in for the 3-yard score. Gargiulo hit McAvoy for the two point conversion and. with it Union cut the Coast Guard lead to 44-29. they won, 12:2. The Dutchmen hosted R.I. T, • they fared no better, losing by a 3-1 margin. The long trip and difficult {!laying conditions (the U of R astrturf was hard and very fast) made it all the more difficult for Union to g~t their game going. · last Wednesday and played in fear of the team then raaked eighth in the nation. They played practicaUy the e11tire first half on defense, and their only real scoring opportllllity . - came · when Rich Engdahl's open shot from the eighteen- yard line sailed over the crossbar midwa1 through the half. R.I. T. scored the only goal of the match five minutes l~ter when goalie Denning McTaguue . had to come off his line after an R.I.T. striker penetrated the Union defense. The player then chipped the ball.past a helpless McTaguie. Rochester . dominated the Dutchmen throughout the match. Th¢y outshot and outran Union, while netting three seemingly effortless goals. To make things even worse, the team lost standout Eric Reamen, who hurt his knee when he came down hard on the turf. At 7:35 remaining Union made quick work of its next possession, traveling 65 yards on seven plays culminating in a 30~yard Gargiulo pass . to the sure-handed McAvoy. Wide receiver Cecil Bright got in on the scoring as· he corralled the conversion pass in the end zone to make the score 44-36. With 4~37 left to play in the game Coast Guard was looking for a slow down, while Union was looking for a turnover. The latter prevailed as .Mike Van Horn pounced on a Bear fumble by quarterback Rinoski at the Coast Guard 9 yard-line. The clock read 2:48, and Union was back in the ball game. An incomplete pass, 5 yard Gargiulo scramble, and 2 yard Ryan Mason tailback run set the stage for the late game drama. It was fourth and two, and. the Dutchmen had to go for it. The call went to Mason, and the 225-pound tailback pounded . into the end zone. The score was 44-42 and the 2-point college conversion rule gave tbe Dutch- men one last hope. The chance for the un- believable comeback was 2 yards away from becoming a reality. Gargiulo ran the option left, was immediately hit but managed to pitch the ball to Mason. Here the game turned to one of inches. A one-on-one confrontation between Mason and Mark Hindle, the Bears defensive back, turned into a contest that would decide the fate of the game. Hindle came hard at the charging Mason and made a perfect hit, meeting Mason low at the line of scrimmage. Mason staggered and stretched for the goal line but fell just short by one, maybe two inches. With the 44-42 loss the Dut- chemn fell to 3-4 and have lost more games this year than in the5 previous regular seasons combined• This week Union will face Williams in an attempt to even their record. In the second half,. 1T11ion came out str(}nger but the.JU. T. defense held. G()alie M~Ta.guie kept the Dutchmen in the g:.ame with several crucial savesp but . the offense could not help. ]o the last fifteen minutes, the Dut- chmen finally put constant pressur~ on the visitors; but Ori Monday, Unio:n played at Vassar in a game that shouldn't have been scheduled. Union won, 12-2 and was led by senior Dave Tewksbury who · scored five goals, giving the four year starter nine on the -season. Tewksbury scored the lone goal in the Rochester game as well. This Saturday the 6·5-1 (through Wednesday, 10-25') Dutchmen will host St. Lawrence and then will wrap up the season on Monday when the Dutchmen host North Adams on Garis Field. · · Harriers Tune-uP for State ·Meet The men's and women'sc::ross respecitvely. country teams :tuned up for The men's team also appears their state meets last Saturday, to be gettirlg in shape after a as they traveled to Albany State rough early season. Although for the Great Dane Invitational. still not as strong as in past Although full results of the meet years, the Dutchmen were were unavailable, t.he race much ·improved over their served as a good .indicat()r of preyio~s races. At the Albany how prepared.tbe. teams at\e for . InvitatiOnal, Steve Szydik was their championship meets~ · the first Dutclunan finiSher · From all appea;rances, the 45th overall with a time of 27:37: small women's team looks Jim LeBrou followed 16 seconds ready to challenge the state's later, crossing the line 65th out top teams; a$. they finishEd 11th of the 200 competitors in the out of about 20 teams. Divlsion I race. Wayne Kotary was power Dartmouth won the Union's third runner, flnishing , meet. Senior Jenny Lee was the 88th with a time of 28:42 over : top finisher of the day for Utnion, the 5.05 mile cDurse. Mark • taking 17th place . in the Shanahan and Bill Boyd : wonum's 5000 meter race ~With a rounded out Union's varsity • time of 19:27. Lee was followed team, running times of 31:08 . · by freshman Kara Merrill• who and 31:33, respectively. continued her outstallding ·Union's junior varsity team rookie year with a time of 20:08. also competed at Albany State, . Next across for the Lady l)utch- taking 9th out of 11 teams in men was newcomer Ly:nette their division. . The Dutctnnen Nielsen, who ran an ex:cellent were led by the freshman trio of 20:55 in her first race. Sherry Dave Steen, Doug Martocci, Cargile and Denise Macmillan and Mike Martinez. Running rounded out thll women's team, over the 5.05 mile course, Steen finishi:flg ·in 2i:OO and 24:29, Cor'!tlnued on page 22 j 1 ,I

