S,ENIOR WEEK SCHEDUlE ·*Pay 1 t-.1 in ; Atrium of CC · or ·408CC. . Disorientation Party at Girling Center. $3~80 5-9 INClUD.ES. FOO,D, DRINK, AND ENTERTAINMENT. You must take the UC van C?Ver- they will be leaving fron1 the College Center starting at 5:00. Thursda , June 9· -CRUISE- 150 Per Boat, We · Have 1 Reserved. 80 1st/ 150 Go! If 300 Sign-up We Will Take 2 Boats. Sign-up In 408C c By Friday $15 includes, Fdda , :June 10 S.KELLAR· ·N·· ·I·G·· ··H·TI .. '. . ....• 9- ··MIDNIGHT 2 hours of open . . bar & transportation $2.75 PIT'CHERS Bu~es leave from Coll~re ~eN~ ON. • 2 K-MAN ~ANDt--p~r!=:P~2~!o~!~s o~rt~o ---~· FORMS OF 5:00-9:00 F~~Ti~~~v I.D. 1877 June 2, 1988 S.P.A.A., Local Media Draw Attention to Commencement Honoree Peter Grace W.R. Grace and Company Court Battles are Focus of Issue By CHRISTINE HONG · results in early January. Due to Editor-in-Chief . the Commission's report, Grace Hoping to make the college · ultimately earned the community aware of W.R. reputation as a strong advocate G:race and Company's business · in the reduction of the federal activities over the past three · deficit. Under his leadership, years, Students for Political the Commission advised the Awareness and Activism Reagan Administration to (S.P.A.A.) sponsored an in- make somewhat drastic cuts in ftmnation desk on 194th federal spending. in order to C10mmencement Speaker and alleviate the pressures of the R'{)noree Peter Grace Tuesday growing U.S. government a~d Wednesday in the College · deficit. Center Atrium. Following his time working · An .information sheet handed for the President, he published ont by S.P.A.A. questioned the · Burning Your Money: The appropriateness .of Grace as · Waste of Your Tax Dollars in ~ommencement Speaker and · 1985. The book documented a:n honorary degree recipient. some of the findings of the \lt brings into question exactly Commission. what is it that makes someone As CEO of the W.R. Grace worthy of an honorary degree.\ ' and Company, Grace, who was The sheet·also offered facts on · appointed in 1945, had an im• -· ---- -~·It· .Gra£~_a!l4 Compa!ly and portant hand in the lts Chief Executive Officer . proliferation of tile; then, small, Peter Grace. foreign-based firm into a major This is a .reprint from the Feb. 18th issue. ByLEATAJACKSON undergraduate education. Of · course, you say you graduated · Senioritis is - a column from Union College in : designed to bring together Scheneetady, New York. , announcements of particular Every(lne's heard of Union interest to members of the class right? ! ? But the interviewe; of '88. will tliink of the reputation · Why we should be concerned Union has in 1993, not what it . about policies that will affect was between 1984 and 1988. Union after we leave. We have a vested interest in • Many times, I have heard the f11ture of Union- the level of seniors say, ''Yeah, but we'll be achievement of the students · gone by then.\ The1;e is a very the reputation of the school th~ good reason for being con\ .physical \improvements ,' the cerned ·about what will happen education and admissions to Union after we leave. policies· bescause (1) we have Scenario: The time - 1993. The mvested four years here and · person~ you. The place- a job or hopefully we are leaving a graduate school interview. The· mark on Union that we can be interviewerasksyouaboutyour · proud of, and {2) we want peopole to still be impressed when we say \I went to Union College.\ Think aboutit. -see Schedule for Senior Week activities. (Did you give your $3 for the band ) ? ....... Everyone should __ have gotten instructions for Com- mencement in their mailboxes. (If you didn't, go by the Registrar's office). Don't forget to clean out your . gym locker and inform magazines, friends, parents, etc. ef your change of address. 10 more days. to make memories about U. \ Are you ready? See Insert for the Annual· Commencement speaker and American special chemicals h.onorary degree awards are the ccmcern. final decision of the Board of Since the company's fixture rrustees which works in con-. as a large American firm jwction with the Faculty during the 1970s, it has recently Committee. Vice President ·for run into several court battles lnstitutional Planning, Jack during the last three years. In Maranville, serves as mediator. 1985, a federal jury ordered Suggestions for Com- W.R. Grace and Company to mencement speakers are pay approximately $8.5 million always welcomed by the Ad- in damages to Greenville, South ministration and .should be Carolina for its selling of directed to Vice President asbestos-containing material to Maranville• Among some of the the city. Three other court other candidates for Com- cases relating to Woburn, rnencement speaker was Ms. Massacusetts led to an out-of• Beverly Sills, opera singer; court settlement and ultimately l\lowever she declined the offer the company's indictment by a early into the academic 1987-88 federal grand jury. The court 3'ear. ruled that W.R. Grace and Co . The issue_ of the College's lied to the Environmental llestowing of an honorary Protection Agency about the degree to Peter Grace and its exact substance and the amount i:!hoice for the commencement of a hazardous chemical that :;peaker was also at hand had been used at its Woburn- Monday night on the local based plant. :television station, WTEN. A Grace will not be the only one . -crew from the local station was honored at the Commencement '()fi campus Monday evening to Ceremonies. A rather diverse solicit opinions from members group of honorees will be in the of the college community; the company of Grace; Irish story was aired that evening. author, economist and Grace will receive his statesman Micheal Butler honorary degree and make his Yeats, distinguished author and Commencement speech as Mellon Professor of English at planned. President John S. Amherst College Benjamin Morris clarified a point con- DeMott, and Assosiate Dean for cerning Grace's honorary Student Affairs at Harvard degree that he will receive Medical School Alvin Poussait, Sunday, June 12 commenting, M.D. \We are not honoring W .R. Not many cases of a Coll~ge Grace and Company. We are revoking its bestowing of an honoring Peter Grace, par• honorary degree or of its ticularly for his work on the cancelling of a Commencement President's Private Sector speaker exist. Within the Survey.\ · decade, Smith College stands Morris was referring to . put as a rare example. The Grace's appointment by · Smith Administration cancelled President Reagan in June of . Jeanne Kirkpatrick's scheduled 1982. Grace was specifically ' Commencement speech after a chosen to head the President's student protest attacking Private Sector Survey on cost Kirkpatrick's political in- control. The Grace Com- clinations. It is possible that mission, as it was referred to, reverberations in the academic. gained national political, and business world. prominence-particularly with , due to Smitl't's hasty decision, the release of the Commission's I arose.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSlS, /1/.nP .2,.,. ),9~$ . . . .. - ~ . .., - - '' - ~ COMMENT ARIES Veterans Forgotten To the Editor: Union College has always claimed to have great pride in tradition. · Opening in 1795 1 • Union takes pride in being New York's first college and the, \Mother of Fraternities.\ However, this institution ob- viously takes little pride in our country. On May 30, 1988, Memorial Day, the United States flag on Union's campus flew at full.rnast. At 3:00PM I called, the Dean of Students,. was trans~erred to Physical · Plant, and requested that the flag be lowered. to half mast in homor of our nation's veterans who gave their lives in combat for the United States. I was told that, \it will be looked into.\ Later the same evening, I checked.the flag again. The flag was stHI at full mast. I am in· sulted by this blatant disrespect for our country by the Union College Admi.nistration. As a Union student, I would like to apologize to any United States veteran or citizen who is also offended by this lack of respect. The flag should b~ lowered at sunset and raised again at sunrise. Union has breached this etiquette for quite some time. Union College should not fly tbe United States flag until · they are ready to properly handle the responsibilitY Once again, I would like to apclcgize to anyone who is offended by this Memorial Day incident. Very respectfully, MIDN D.E. Vandigrifft, USNR For the Love of Earth To the Edit()r: I live in New York City and I am unable to travel upstate as often as I would like to. Recently, however, it was necessary for me to visit a friend in Albany and I decided afterwards to stop by Schenectady and spend a day at my Alma Mater which, I con- fess, I had not be~n back to visit for many years. Union College has changed very much since· I last saw her, for the better in man~ ways but for the worse, I believe, in many others. When I was on campus, my curiosity was aroused when I noticed sev~r~l . posters proclaiming,.·. -\·E-arth Day meeting: in the Mall\. Coin- cidentally, this meeting was scheduled for the same day of my visit so I atten~ed it. (I eventually discovered that \the Mall\ is a rather appropriate nickname for the newly con- structed College Center). After understanding what Earth Day involved, or at least the motivation behind it, I applaud the efforts of those students who took part in this endeavor but I fear they may have un- derestimated the difficulty in increasing people's level of appreciation for the planet we inhabit. And, unfortunately, this may be especially true at Union College. When I attend Union as a student, some decades ago, I often enjoyed long walks ar·ound the campus and especially in Jackson's gar- dens. In contrast, the walk I took on my recent visit was very disappointing. The campus is now crowded with many more buildings, tennis courts, a very large, green, unaesthetic, plastic carpet called a football \field\, and parking lots-my God! the parking lots! It seems that people today are so dependent on their automobiles it's dif- · ficult to imagine life without such a •inecessary\ com- modity, yet when I was a young man an automobile was a rarity, especially for students, and we got along just fine without them. I almost wept when I saw how extensively Jackson's gardens has been whittled away to construct a new automobile entrance and, because I will miss what once was an important part of my lif~. They upset me because they reflect the priorities that our society holds in general and the implications of these priorities project a very grim picture of the future. Of course, I realize that times have changed and that Union must grow along with the rest of the world but I question whether this growth, often in the name of \progress\, is · worth it's terrible expense, namely the destruction of our natural en- vircmment. If environmental pr()blems such as atmospheric o:zone depletion, acid rain, and d~struction· of the· earth's rain . forests, .. to name.·· onfy .a tew, . have ·not yet frightened us into reexamining and correcting our priorities and our perspective .t()ward the earth, or at least into attempting to do so, we are either utterly insane or we have not given these problems nearly enough consideration. Please do not dismiss this letter as the product of a misinformed liberal en- vironmentalist who is probably a member of some leftist organization whose views you d() not agree with and who you believe is unnecessarily trying to frighten people merely to achieve some political ob- jective. You ought to ask yourself how you feel about the issues I have just mentioned, not how you feelabout my views on those issues. The en· vironmental problems facing the earth are very real and frightening and their effects are currently being felt. Open your eyes! I would be very worried if thEse problems do not frighten y()u. I do not write this letter to achieve a political goal or to merely criticize Union College, or today's youth because I am aware that many of the problems facing you are largely a product of- generations before yours. My intent is not to place blame somewhere. Instead, I write with the hope that I will inspire you, the future in- tellectual elite of our society, to give serious thought to the problems that face the earth before it is too late to remedy them. There is no easy solsution bnt we must take an initiative n()w.The future of this glorious .planet is in our hands. · of all things, a parking lot. I am not, however, a naive, nostalgic old man; The changes , to the campus do not upset me Happy Earth Day! Sweet Peace and Broccoli:! Andre Haddad '88 194th Commencement June 12, 1988 Seniors' Dinner Speech Attacks Individuals To the Editor: Since Charlie Slotnik took it upon himself to publicly share. with o1:1r senior class his im- pressions and mem()ries of 4 years at Union College, and I stress the possessive pr'onoun HIS, I feel it my right to share with the rest of the college community my impressions of Charlie's speech. First of allCharlie, in all your glory you forgot one very im- portant Greek organization to rag on- ... Chi Psi. Now~ not to offend the brothers of Chi Psi, just as you, l'm sure, did not intend on offending the numerous Greek organizations you verbally assaulted, but I believe that off the top of my head I could think of several places to start such a malicious attack on your fraternity. But I won't, and you know why Charlie... 'cuz I'v~ got class. Something I'm afraid you don't know muchabout. Secondly, Charlie, what did you do during your four years. at ..Union? Sit in the Lodge and drink beer while the world went on outside around you? Most people grew up while we were here. Grew up in the sense that the stereotypes and prejudices of eur freshman year have become things of the past. It · really scared. me to hear such archaic trash come out of your mouth. May.be you should reapply ~nd try another go at the 4 year education UNION offers in matarity. It really bummed Ule .out to hear you attack individual members of our class too. Who gave you that right? Who died and left you God ? You were sitting among your PEERS! Humor is one thing and God knows you were initially funny, but even the stupidest com- median knows when enough is enough, Why didn't you stop? It's one of the great mysterres ofthe modern age Well, Charlie, unfortunately I · can't make this letter as long and as brutal as your speech. For you see, I've gotta go find \daddy's .gold card'' so that I can go shopping with some good friends: The Tri~Delts and I are going to the bulk bins at Price Chopper, Gamma Phi-and! are going to Caldor's for mirrors, and DG and I are going to Grossman's to find the biggest lock we can for their house ... to keep you outt!l! ! To the rest ·of my fellow classmates, I ask you to forget Charlie's speech. Don't let . it ruin your memories of UNION. · We don't need someone else to tell us what Union means to us; it means .. something different to each and every one of us. Too bad Charlie didn't get as mach out of itas we all did. Sincerely Mary Ann Dunham '88 ... Encore Charles Slotnik! To the Editor: I would like to take this chance to commend the ad- ministration and Charles Slotnik .for the wonderful speech at the President's dinner highlighting my fo11r year& at , Union. After all of this time and money I have expended on my education at Union I was pleased to be entertained by Mr. Slotnik's amusing ~peech. Initially he offered general insights on our folll years of · Union College but eventnally he displayed his true colors and allowed us to examine his views on the community as in- Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the EdUorial Board of Concordie-ns is • All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide thei,r addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordie nsis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. dividuais. This coUld be deemed especially appropriate .. l ha:ve always been happy to be con- sidered 'Part of the \Union of People\ about which Union so often boasts. . Particularly enlightening were his ·views on ·the· Greek system. As an independent I often have difficulty · un- derstandin~ the benefits of fraternities while Gapitalizing on the drawbacks. I, after four years, bad begun to think that the Greeks should be .con- sidered a group of individuals not a mass of individual groups. However, ·Mr. Sl<>tnik's wise comments have allowed me to reestablish many old stereotypes. I thank Mr. Slotnik for helping me realize that the -Greek system doe$ have at least this one advantage. In closing I think that Mr .. Slotnik's speach had only one notic.eable fault. That was it was much too short. Perhaps at graduation· he could elaborate . on the remaining members of. the Senior class who feel that. they were unfairly overlo()ked .. What you think Dean Mam- m()la? . y With highest regards, Lisa M. Clark Class of '88 Af pha: acac takE dish ,pus! the·~ F1 deb: is lo is n imp tak1 R for1 A stu4 son disl • lab vol .. or chc: • paJ ag~ irr' Oll( • Co stu stt po qu ' (2 (2 ). '

Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, June 2, 1988 COMMENT ARIES Veterans Forgotten To the Editor: Union College has always cla,imed to have great pride in tradition., Opening iFI 1795, Union takes pride in being New York's first college and the, 'Mother of Fraternities.\ However, this institution ob- viously takes little pr.ide iFI our country. On May 30, 1988, Memorial Day, the United States flag on Union's campus flew at full mast. At 3:00PM I called the Dean of Students, was trans~erred to Physical Plant, and requested tllat the flag be lowered to half mast in homor of our nation's veterans who gave their lives in combat for the United States. I was told that, \it will be looked into.\ Later the same evening, I checked the flag again. The flag was stHI at full mast. I am in- sulted by this blatant disrespect fer our country by the Union Corlege Administration. As a Union student, I would like to apologize to any United States veteran or citizen who is also offended by this lack of respect. The flag should be lowered at sunset and raised again at sunrise. Union has breached this etiquette for quite some time. Union College should not fly the United States flag until , they are ready to properly handle the responsibility Once again, I would like to apologize to anyone who is offended by this Memorial Day incident. Very respectfully, MIDND.E. Vandigrifft, USNR For the Love of Earth To the Editor: I live in New York City and I am unable to travel upstate as often as I would like to. Recently, however, it was necessary for me to visit a friend in Albany and I decided afterwards to stop by Schenectady and spend a day at my Alma Mater which, I con- fess, I had not be~n back to visit for many years. Union College has changed very much since I last saw her, for the better in many ways but for the worse, I believe, in many others. When I was on campus, my curiosity was aroused when I noticed several posters proclaiming, \Earth Day meeting: in the Mall\. Coin- cidentally, this meeting was scheduled for the same day of my visit so I attenged it. (I eventually discovered that ''the Mall\ is a rather appropriate nickname for the newly con- structed College Center). Mter understanding what Earth Day involved, or at least the motivation behind it, I applaud the efforts of those students who took part in this endeavor but I fear they may have un- derestimated the difficulty in increasing people's level of appreciation for the planet we inhabit. And, unfortunately, this may be especially true at Union College. When I attend Union as a student, some decades ago, I often enjoyed long walks around the campus and especially in Jackson's gar- dens. In contrast, the walk I took on my recent visit was very disappointing. The campus is now crowded with many more buildings, tennis courts, a very large, green, unaesthetic, plastic carpet called a football \field\, and parking lots-my God! the parking lots! It seems that people today are so dependent on their automobiles it's dif- ficult to imagine life without such a \necessary\ com- modity, yet when I was a young man an automobile was a rarity, especially for students, and we got along just fine without them. I almost wept when I saw how extensively Jackson's gardens has been whittled away to construct a new automobile entrance and, of all things, a parking lot. I am not, however, a naive, nostalgic old man. The changes to the campus do not upset me because I will miss what once was an important part of my life. They upset me because they reflect the priorities that our society holds in general and the implications of these priorities project a very grim picture of the future. Of course, I realize that times have changed and that Union must grow along with the rest of the world but I question whether this growth, often in the name of \progress\, is worth it's terrible expense, namely the destruction of our natural en- vironment. If environmental problems such as atmospheric ozone depletion, acid rain, and destruction of the earth's rain forests, to name only a .few, have not yet frightened us into reexamining and correcting our priorities and our perspective toward the earth, or at least into attempting to do so, we are either utterly insane or we have not given these problems nearly enough consideration. Please do not dismiss this letter as the product of a misinformed liberal en- virorunentalist who is probably a member of some leftist organization whose views you do not agree with and who you believe is unnecessarily trying to frighten people merely to achieve some political ob- jective. You ought to ask yourself how you feel about the issues I have just mentioned, not how you feel about my views on those issues. The en- vironmental problems facing the earth are very real and frightening and their effects are currently being felt. Open your eyes! I would be very worried if these problems do not frighten you. I do not write this letter to achieve a political goal or to merely criticize Union College, or today's youth because I am aware that many of the problems facing you are largely a product of generations before yours. My intent is not to place blame somewhere. Instead, I write with the hope that I will inspire you, the future in- tellectual elite of our society, to give serious thought to the problems that face the earth before it is too late to remedy them. There is no easy solsution but we must take an initiative now. The future of this glorious planet is in our hands. Happy Earth Day! Sweet Peace and Broccoli! Andre Haddad '88 194th Commencement June 12, 1988 Seniors' Dinner Speech Attacks Individuals To the Editor: Since Charlie Slotnik took it upon himself to publicly share with our senior class his im- pressions and memc:>ries of 4 years at Union College, and I stress the passessive pronoun HIS, I feel it my right to share with the rest of the college community my impressions of Charlie's speech. First af all Charlie, in all your glory you forgot one very im- portant Greek organization to rag on- ... Chi Psi. Now, not to offend the brothers of Chi Psi, just as you, I'm sure, did not intend on offending the mliilerous Greek organizations you verbally assaulted, but I believe that off the top of my head I could think of several places to start such a malicious attack on your fraternity. But I won't, and you know wh,y Charlie... 'cuz I've got class. Something I'm afraid you don't know much about. Secondly, Ch.arlie, what did you do during your four years at Union? Sit in ,the Lodge arul drink beer whi!le the werld went on outside ar(;)und you? Most people grew up while we were here. Grew up in the sense that the stereotypes and prejudices of our freshman year have become things of the past. It really scared me to hear such archaic trash come out of your mouth. Maybe you should reapply and tr-y another go at the 4 year education UNION offers in maturity. It really bwmned me out to hear you attack individual members of ~ur class too_ Who gave you that right? Who died and left you God ? You were sitting among your PEERS! Humor is one thing ami God knows you wel\e initially funny, but even the stupidest com- median knows when enough is enough. Why didn't you stop? It's one of the great mysteries ·Of the modern age W eH, Charlie, unfortunately I can't make this letter as long and as brutal as your speech. For you see, I've gotta go find \daddy's gold card\ so that I can go shopping with some good friends: TheTri-Delts and I are going to the bulk bins at Price Chopper, Gamma Phi and I are going to Catdor' s for mirrors, and DG and I are going to Grossman's to find the biggest lock we can for their house ... to keep you out!!!!! To the rest of my fellow classmates, [ ask you to forget Charlie's speech. Don't let it ruin your memories of UNION. We don't need someone else to tell us what Union means to us; it means something different to each and every one of us. Too bad Charlie didn't get as much out of it as we all did. Sincerely Mary Ann Dunham '88 Encore Charles Slotnik! To the Editor: I would like to take this chance to commend the ad- ministration and Charles Slotnik fol\ the wonderful speech at the President's dinner highlighting my four yeald at . Union. After all of this time and money I have expended on my education at Union I was pleased to be entertained by Mr. Slotnik's amusing speech. Initially he offered general insights on our four years of Union College but eventually he displayed his true colors and allowed us to examine his views on the community as in- Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and submitted by 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification of the letter. Names normally will not be witheld. Concordiensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or do not conform to standard of good taste. dividuals. This could be deemed especially appropriate. I llave always been happy to be con- sidered part of the \Union of People\ about which Union so often boasts. Particularly enligilteniFig were his views on the Greek system. As an independent I often have difficulty un- derstanding the benefits of fraternities while capitalizing on the drawbacks. I, after four years, had begun to think that the Greeks should be con- sidered a group of individuals not a mass of individual gr<Jups. However, :Mr. Slotnik's wise comments have allowed me to Campos P~~e Editors . Sport$ tid~l>XS ' ~ Pitotngraplly Editdt Advetti.§itii £difuts ' Associate Ad~tetaising Editors reestablish many old stereotypes. I thank Mr. Slotnik for helping me realize that the Greek system does have at least this one advantage. In closing I think that Mr. Slotnik's speach had only one noticeable fault. That was it was much too short. Perhaps at graduation he could elaborate on the remaining members of the Senior class who feel that they were unfairly overlooked, What you think Dean Mam- mola? With highest regards, LisaM. Clark Class of '88 As phas a cad take1 dish1 pusb the c Fu dete is lm is nc imp1 take Rl fort A stud sorn dish e' labc voh • or cha • pap aga • irre one • Cor stUI • stu • por • qm • (21 • (2!

Report on Academic Offenses As part of the effort to em- phasize the trnportance of academie honesty, actions taken by the conege . where dishonesty is alleged will be pusblishedin Concordiensis. at the conclusion of each term. - Furthermore, $ince the deterrent effect of punishment is lost if the campus community is not aware that penalties are imposed for ipfractioos, actions taken last year are noted below. Report on Academic Offenses for tbe year 1988-1984 A total of eighteen (18) students were chi!rged with some - form of a-cademic dishonesty. . • There were 6 cases in which laboratory reports were in· volved -' Cheating on examinations, or other irregularity, was charged against 6 students • . Plagiarism ,on papers/homework was charged against s·students • Computer Program irregularities were the focus of one case Disposition/Penalties • Charges \not proven\ by Committee on Standing (2 students) ~ • Qharges dropped. (2 students) - • Failure in laboratory portton of course (6 students) • FaiJure on assignment in question ( 4 ~tudents) • Admonition-without record (2 students) • Disllli$sed from the College (2 students) Report on Academic Offemses · for the year 1984-1985 A total of fifteen (15) allegations were brought againststudents. • Charges of plagiarism on papers/theses (7 students) • Allegations of cheatirlg on examinations (5 students) - • Computer Program irregularities were brought against ·( 2 students) . • Computer r Program irregularities were br.ought against {2 students) • One student was charged. with copying an earlier laboratory report Dispostion/Penalties _ • Cnarges against 2 students were dropped • Warnings without rec()rd (3 students) · • A failure on the assiglllnent in question (4 students) Grade of \F'' in the C()urse (5 students) • Dismissed from the College (1 stucJent) ~ Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1985-1986 • SiXteen (16) studeBts were reported for investigation • Charges of .Plagiarism were br_ought against (4 students\) • Examination cheating or irreularity (3 students) . !' Copying laboratory reports (4 student$) • Computer program copying (3 students) · _. Writin~ in rare Library book_ (1 student) • Copying homework assignment ( 1 student) . Disposition/Penalties • Warning issued (1student) • Charge dropped {1 student) . • FailurE in laboratory sec- bono£ course ( 4 students) • Failt:ire on assignment and final grade in course reduced one full letter grade ( 4 students) • FaUure in the course ( 4 students) • Dismis~ed from the College (1 student) • Assessment of costs and a $100.00penalty (1 student:) · Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1986--1987 The actions of foW'teen (14) students were brought to the attentionofthe Dean. · • Irregularities with respect to Take-Home Assignments (2 students) • Charges of Plagiarism (7 students) • Cheating on Examinations (3students} • Improper behavior with regard to Laboratory Reports (2 students.} Dispostion/Penalties • Cnarges mopped at initial ·stage (2 students) • Formal Reprimand (1 student) • Ch~rges \Not Proven\ by Comrmttee ; on Standing of Students (1 student) • Failure on Laboratory portion of c~urse (2 students) • Failure on the &ssignment ( 4 students) - • Failure on the assignment and a one grade reduction for the course (htudents) • Failure on the assignment and failure for the course (1 student) _, !94th Commencem-ent ., .Speaker and Un~on honoree, Peter Grace will be the- • topic of discussion at the Open Forum to-day at 5 in the Atrium, Sponsored by S.P.A.A. Page 3 We would like to thank the following people for doing another terrific job at CAMP UNION. _ KEVIN MAHONEY BOOKER ERSKINE SHAWN JORGENSEN -ANDREW APPEL SEAN SCALES MATT GRIMM HENRY BABBlE JESSE BORST DAWN RANSOM ·uz D'EUA TOM CICHOCKI CHRIS O'CONNOR SANDY SIMMONDS MINDY MARSHALL JASON MOSS DAVE KOLAKOFF MELISSA BRIGGS KATIE O'CONNOR CHRlSTA IPPOLITI TERRY AINSWORTH LILY NEALS SHIRLEY PELICONE DAVE MANNATO VINCE D'EUA ANGlE MARRA - MARGE GREGIORE LINDt\ JORGENSEN SANDY MARSHALl STEVE MANNATO TlSH D'AGOSTINO BETH OKSA ANN HIGGINS Thanks again for another fine job! Joe DiCarlo Bob Dalton There will be a T·ERMS ABROAD PANEL DISCUSSION~ TODAY At 4:30 in the College :Center Auditorium THOSE PLANNING. ON - . - ·. GOING ~ • • ~ i • ~ ABROAD ARE URGED TO ATTEND • ··Students and faculty who have- gone abroad in the past year will be discussing the Term · · Abroad Experience. Sponsored by the TERMS ABROAD OFFICE and PHI BETA KAPPA Concordiensis would ·like to thank the entire board and staff of 1987-· 1988 for their hard work and congratulate them on another successful yearo _ Not pictured: Mark Haughton, Suzanne Shaker, Aime Simon, Jim MacLaughlin, Andrew Miller, Lisa Brown, Lori Kaplan, Leslie Morris, Liz Perkowski, Beth Turney, Beth Goodsmith, Robin Jacobson, Brad Mondschein, Karen Simons. oil·

CONCORDIENSIS, June 2, 1988 Report on Academic Offenses As part of the effort to em- phasize the importance of academic haBesty, actions taken by the college where dishonesty is alleged will be pusblished in Coneordiensis at the conclusion of each term. Furtherm0re, since the deterrent effect of punislunent is lost if the campus community is not aware that penalties are imposed for infractions, actions taken last year are noted below. Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1988-1984 A total of eighteen (18) students were charged with some form of academic dishonesty. .. There were 6 cases in which laboratory reports were in- volved • Cheating on examinations, or other irregttlarity, was charged against 6 students • . Plagiarism on papers/homework was charged against 5 students • Computer Program irregularities were the focus of one case Disposition/Penalties • Charges \not proven\ by Committee on Standing (2 students) \ • Charges dropped (2 students) • Failure in laboratory portion of course ( 6 students) • Failure on assignment in question ( 4 students) • Admonition ·without rec0rd (2 students) • Dismissed from the College (2 students) Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1984-1985 A total of fifteen ( 15) allegations were brought against students. • Charges of plagiarism on papers/theses ( 7 students) • Allegations of cheating on examinations (5 students) • Computer Program irregularities were brought against ( 2 students) • Computer ' Program irregularities were brought against ( 2 students) • One student was charged with copying an earlier laboratory report Dispostion!Penalties .. Charges against 2 students were dropped • Warnings without record ( 3 students) · • A failure on the assignment in question ( 4 students) Grade of \F\ in the course ( 5 students) • Dismissed frGm the College (1 student) Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1985-1986 • Sixteen ( 16) students were reported £or investigation • Charges of Plagiarism were brought against ( 4 students) • Examination cheating or irreularity (3 students) • Copying laboratory reports ( 4 students) \ Computer program copying (3 students) • Writing in rare Library book (1 student) o Copying homework assignment ( 1 student) . Disposition/Penalties • Warning issued ( 1 student) \Charge dropped (1 student) • Failure in labnatory sec- tion of course ( 4 students) • FaHure on assignment and final grade in course reduced one full letter grade ( 4 students) • Failure in the course ( 4 students) • Dismissed from the College (1 student) • Assessment of C()sts and a $100.00 penalty (1 student) Report on Academic Offenses for the year 1986-1987 The actions of fourteen (14) students were brollght to the attention of the Dean. • Irregularities with respect to Take-Home Assignments ( 2 students) • Charges of Plagiarism (7 students) • Cheating on Ex:aminations ( 3 students) • Improper behavior with regard to Laboratory Reports ( 2 students) Dispostion/Penalties • Charges dropped at initial stage (2 students) • Formal Reprimand (1 student) • Ch~rges \Not Proven\ by Comnuttee ;on Standing of Students ( 1 student) • Failure on Laboratory portion of course (2 students) • Failure on the assignment ( 4 students) • Failure on the assignment and a one grade reduction for the course (3 students) • Failure on the assignment and failure for the course (1 student) 194th Commencement Speaker and Union honoree, Peter Grace will be the topic of discussion at the Open Forum today at 5 in the Atrium, Sponsored by S.P.A.A. Page 3 We would like to thank the following people for doing another terrific job at CAMP UN ION. KEVIN MAHONEY BOOKER ERSKINE SHAWN JORGENSEN ANDREW APPEL SEAN SCALES HENHY BABBlE MATTGRIMM JESSE BORST TOM CICHOCKI DAWN RANSOM CHRIS O'CONNOR LIZ D'EUA SANDY SIMMONDS DAVE MANNATO MINDY MARSHALL VINCE D'ELIA JASON MOSS ANGIE MARRA DAVE KOLAKOFF MARGE GHEGIORE MELISSA BRIGGS LINDA JORGENSEN KATIE O'CONNOR SANDY MARSHALL CHRISTA IPPOLITI STEVE MANNATO TERRY AINSWORTH TISH D'AGOSTINO LILY NEALS BETH OKSA SHIRLEY PELICONE ANN HIGGINS Thanks again for another fine job! Joe DiCarlo Bob Dalton There will be a TERMS ABROAD PA'NEL DISCUSSION TODAY At 4:30 in the College Center Auditorium THOSE PLANNING ON GOING ABROAD ARE URGED TO ATTEND. Students and faculty who have gone abroad in the past year will b·e discussing the Term Abroad Experience. Sponsored by the TERMS ABROAD OFFICE and PHI BETA KAPPA Concordiensis would ·liketothanktheentire board and staff of 1987-· 1988 for their hard work and congratulate them on another successful year. Not pictured: Mark Haughton, Suzanne Shaker, Aime Sin1on, Jim MacLaughlin, Andrew Miller, Lisa Brown, Lori Kaplan, Leslie Morris, Liz Perkowski, Beth Turney, Beth Goodsmith, Robin Jacobson, Brad Mondschein, Karen Simons.

'. Page 4 CONCORDlENSJS, June 2, 19$.8 Talk of The Town Interviews and Photos by Susan Kusch Concordiensis. recently asked members of the class of '88.: ''How you you sp,ell success?'' \Success is J1Q1 to be a wealthy man, nor a famous man. Success to me isssss to be happy f.loating around the planet experie.ncing life while contributing my share, my talents, my love. Thank you.~ Gene Bolger \Success is riding, living,. smelling, doing it an in Africa while listening to 'Bob Marley.\ - Eddy Remy BLOOM COUNTY 7li~R~ HI!V~ !J&e'N N€W RO/VJORS .. / IJII... ~XC()~ M€ .. 1601rf! . · &0 V/:JrT Tf/~{ .. 00 .. I SENIORS- \To completely dominate the economic infra-st rLictu r.e of the planet.\ Craig Rideout Keep in touch with . Campus after graduation-Subscribe to Concor·diensis for the 1988-89 School . Year. NAME: . ADDRE~SS~:------------------------------------~ .. ' You will receive 24 issues for $30~ Checks should be made payable to I CON CORDIE.NS:IS' Fo:r:ms and payment can be placed in the CONGORDJENSIS : mailbox, 3rd floor, College Center or sent to P.O. Box 2.577, · Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 ' . \Let's see here ... S-U-K-0-E•S. Is that right, Maura?\ . Bob Goldstein and Maura Carta· ....... , ..... : This : • Weekend's • • • • -Campus.... • • • • Movie: • • • WALL • • • • ·STREET • • • • • • • 7; 9, 11 p.m. • • • cc • • • Auditorium ,. : $1 Adm.isslon : • • . . . . ,. . . . . . . . ERRATA: Last week's article on CommenGement Speaker Peter Grace incorrectly cited Daniel J. Keniry, News Editor, as author of the article. The · · article was a press release from the Union College Public Relations Office in Lam()nt House. DUTCH· HOLLOW .RESTAURANT Is now accepting applicatio:n.s for student empl:oyment in the Fall Term. AVOID THE RUSH AND se·cuRE CHOICE POSITIONS FIRST APPLY IN·. PERSON . . ~·oH.R 2·5 WEEKDAYS ..

CXVII, No. 2 7 :Socialist Squirrels to Attempt ·co.up d'Etat. By JOHN DOC Presi,dent . . . Reag·an Speaks· An Interview with J. deVivre Something is rotten in the hallowed' halls of Union College. A group of creatures · once President Reagan is in thought of as \cute'~ has begun Moscow this week for summit to mount a seriqus threat to the · talks with Soviet leader Mikhail York ~. LU· l:i:' § 0 b June 2,. 1988 H • . • · IStOriC Super- Powe,r Sum·m~it Held ByTIMWYMES lifestyle that the college Gorbachev. Amidst the media. currently enjoys. They can be chaos wyhich blit~es any seen putting· on their little act superpower summit, Mr. all over the campus, but no one Reagan found the time to an- sees them as they truly are. ; swer a few questions for They are never seen as they • Distordie1,1sis' correspondent, J. hold their secret meetings. · deVivre. The reader is asked to . if In the midst of tile big ~ . U.S./Russia summit, another ~ summit of eual importance to '-------------------......._ ___ __... ___ ~ the American public has been · ·~· keep in mind that Mr. Reagan w . has just finished a--grueling 10- !;;z! .. · minute interview with Ted · \ ''kick-Ass\ Koppel, which ran ~ . eight minutes over the allotted t> .. time, and Mrs. Reagan is about ~ • to pot him down for his nap. The \British\ stare in disbelief at foreigners. An Untold Story From the Falkland Islands Conflict ~ · JV: Mr: Rel'!gan, I realize fA th<:lt the past few days. have By DJ K Along came the Argentinian.·· ~ been rough for 7()U, so I'll just Army, invading the wrong ·~ ask Y0\1 a few q~estims on a . There is an unsung hero of the island. The. Argenpne Plun- broad range o.ftop1es. Falkland Islands War. The war derers mercilessly flred at the ffi ~ _.Jt.R: . ~ _Well. . ( ch'uckle).l is now six years be;hind .. the .\British\ on the opposite side of .. ~:! . toplt!a1itrls my spel!Uiltr;· - -- . -- - -woffir;- but c'ertam liiruvldiiars·; - - tne 'r'tdge. \Olle SllldierWas even 8 :::> JV: First, the sUIIlJillt. What on both sides of the Atlantic are heard noting to a fellow . d~ you think you accomplis~ed · still wondering aboot ' the liberator, \Those British are so @ with Mr. Gorbachev tills time Falklands ancient inhabitants dignified ... they even wear if arotiDdthebargainingtable?. . and how they fared during tb~ tuxedos in battle.\ Vladimir llych Acord meetings which could decide the fate of all humans at Union College. These creatures are. the squirrels, squirrels that have formed a subversive terrorist socialist organization. The Distordiensis recently intercepted a top secret memo from the head of this organization · to its members. The memo revealed the time and place for one .of the group's meetings. This reporter, disguised as . a giant squirrel, tnfiltrated the secret meeting, held in the basement of South dormitory. The first shock was at the sight of those present at the meeting. Besides over a hun- dred squirrels, there were a least twenty ducks and over fifty chipmunks. But the biggest shock came at the sight of Dean Wood, Dean of Residence Life. From the way the others See SECRET, p. 2 Deall· · AliQl~d bikes ru.tked. through campus· .. p .. ·4. Talk of tbe Tuwn ..... ·ifqr Do3s .. p .. J RR: Well {Chuckle), 1 think conflict Nanc~ and ! made_ it clear that The siut broke -over the top of Estimating by. the number of murdered flightless waterfowl, Ame~1can fust ~a die~ can m:ess a snow capped ridge. Hundreds as mce as Soviet ftrst . ladies. of thousands of penguins stood · it took the Argentinians 6 hours Heck, 1 remember last tune the in the chilly morning air · Gorbs came over, Raisa .had ' · of warfare to determine that their enemy was an army of . King Penguins; approximately · that fur head•thing, and she tried to make Nancy look pretty bad. Took a while for Nancy to .get over that. (Chu~kle) Boy, was she steamed. JV: And aside from the . fashionissue, Mr. Reagan? RR:. Well (Chuckle), 1 don't think we've accomplished much. Uh, I am, of ct>urse, the Great Communicator~ but my hearing aid went on the fritz a cQupla times, so I didn't exactly hear everything through my inte~preter' s headphones, but, well (Chuckle), I think I heard Misha say something like,. \We wiU bury you\-no that was · Khruschev who said that ... then I started banging my shoe on the table; I had a pebble from . that dirty old Red Sq!lare in it, CJnd, well {Chllckle), Mr. Gorbachev didn't like that, said it wasn't very polite of me to make fun of... (snore) JV: Mr. Presidenti with all due respect, sir, please wake up. RR: Oops, sorry. Has the borscht been served yet? I'd like rhine without the porpoise eye, please. Scared Nancy half to death last time, and~ JV: Speaking of Nancy, Mr. President, have you read for- mer chief-of-staff Donald Regan's book yet? RR: What? I haven't written a book yet. JV: No , riq, not Mr . . 2 feet 5 inches high, 36 pounds, \\YAA\· 1\ A '·'· . . :~er~~g Diane Sawyer ad- t\t\ What had they d()ne? Why did 5 the penguins pay such a high o . price on that fateful morn? The ~ u5 essence of the Opii Biggus \' co Schnozus species is self- sacrifice. The animals were happy tQ give up th-eir lives so- that the rest of us may continue to serve both God and country. Further, they perished in the great worldwide strugg.Ie against ignorance (and broc- coli). They stood against enormous odds. An<l in death, we remember them as valiant and chivalrous, combatting A precision military assault surveying the sub-zero waters, inviting them for a swim. They squawked .and squabbled, unaware of approaching winds of change. Unaware of political ideology. Unaware of the Sea Harriers. Unaware of Al Haig~s good offices. And unaware of Maggie's fleet of democracy, steaming south at that moment. All in all, if appeared to be a normal, cozy day on South Georgia. A male penguin could enjoy a dip, a morning stroll, and then a discussion of Buckley's. God andManat Yale over lunch with his in-laws. Penguins are good Republicans, yousee. • against tyranny. . . , U(t;rsh , . •··. ··~:~ul>,it{ ··IJ·&m·: , Ray. gun ... Reeeegan, l · President. But suddenly, the ridge was ablaze with gunfire, claymore mines, and the smell of cheap South Arneric;:1n whiskey~ RR: Oh, I see ... Well (Chuckle), no I llaven't read that yet, I'm still reading my son Michael's b09k ab()Ut me. · ''Que pasa! ,; overlooked: the Mc- Donald' s/Burger King summit. Choosing a neutral non-burger territory outside Mc- DonaldLand and Grillsville, the two heads met in Kentu~k:y with Colonel Sanders mediating. Ronald and the King sat at either end of the table, stacks of dossiers, recipes, and meat .samples at their side. Ronald refused to back down on keeping up his ''60 zillion served sign,'' which the King referred The.· Kin!r ltecused McDonaldland's Hamburglar of corpDrate espionage. to as \capitalist propaganda.\ The King also protested Mc- Donald's enlarging their straws in order to get patrons to suck down their sodas and shakes even faster and buy more; however this was easily resolved when Ronald suggested that the King merely do the same. The summit .saw its heated scandalous moments too. The King accuse!l Mc- DonaldLand's Hamburglar of corporate espionage for the recent theft of the King's recipe to tbe tartar sauce on his Whaler fish sandwich, citing the recent surge in Fillet o~ Fish sales which had been sl()W in past years. Ronald denied any knowledge of the Hamburglar's activities. Ronald in turn accused the King of being involved in the assassination of Me- See FAST, p. 2 See PRESIDENT, p. 2 \Andale aridale ... Yee-ha!\ No, it wasn'tSpeedyGonzales in the snow. lt was something more sinister, and not as smart. Photo of the Weak: Oops ... forf)ot to take the lens cap ()ff.

Page 2 DIST.ORDIENSJS, June 2, 1'988 Secret Squirrel Meeting Infiltrated; President Reag·an Sleeps Continued from page 1 · JV: Bush Mr. President T}lat boy is going. to get his George Bush~ ' \The Plan~\ Exposed botto~ whooped if he doesn't RR: Oh. Well {Chuckle); watch •t-:-- . . . George ha:s a lot of. backing. Continued from page '1 treated him, it was obvious that he held a position of some authority·. JV: W1th all due r~spect, str, Nancy and I will vote for him Mr. Regan blew the lid off your and my pal Sinatra will vote fo; wife's dependence on him, and Sinatra has a lot of astrologers. According to the business.pals that'llv!lte. former chief of staff, your wife JV: Yo11 mean his mafia The meeting began with the arrival of a very important looking squirrel, apparently the leader. He sat at the head of the group, with Dean Wood at his right. The meeting revealed an ingenious plan to take over the entire campus. ''The Plan\ as it was called, involved a systematic takeover of every important building on campus, followed by the elimination of key personnel and the establishment of a new, socialist administration. The meeting further revealed that the president's house and WRUC were to be the first two targets. The radio station would ran your administration by star connections? signs. Could you comment on RR: Yes, that's exactly what this? . 1-No, no, Blue ·Eyes has RR: Well (Chuckle), all I can nothing to do with the mafia as say is; I don't know. I love everyone knows. Neither do '1. I stars~Hollywood stars, Star have never known Frank to Y~ars-it w:ouldn't surprise me have anyone's kneecaps busted 1f I was gmded by stars for the up, and he didn't have anything past seven years, . but. Na~cy to do with Fat Tony Salerno would b~ better at answermg being shot in New York City, the questiOn than I would. Heck, either. Absolutely nothing. In when I asked her where she got fact I think it was the KGB who sue~ great. id~~s for me to use, did 'it; yo \I know these darn she JUSt said, thank your lucky Russkies! Ha ha. stars you married me.\ AJid so JV: As you prepare to leave I do. . the presidency, Mr. Reagan, is JV: Is 1t true, Mr. Reag~n, there anything you'd like to that the CIA has been keepmg remember especially? dossiers on private citizens RR:' Well (Chuckle),! don't even. after McCarthy and J. remember anything ,especially, Edgar Hoover were gone? but if I could I'd like to look be used for spreading socialist propaganda, while the president's house would provide nicer headquarters for the terrorists. RR: Well (Chuckle), I. don't back ontheti~e Nancy's puppy . k~ep tabs on the CIA, but If ~hey made a mistake on Tip O'Neill's . did carry. on covert op~ratlon~ pant-leg. Gee, was he steamed! Dean Wood's role soon became clear. He had already tampered with the housing lottery so . that fewer up- perclassmen would be on campus at the beginning of the 1988-89 schol year. With more upperclassmen living off campus, the squirrels and their allies would have more freshmen to brainwash. Dean Wood was to receive the Nott Memorial as compensation for his efforts. He quickly an- nounced plans to add an extra :?ide, making. it . the only seventeen-sided building in the northern hemisphere. At the end of the meeting, a map of the entire campus was unrolled. This chart divided the campus into sectors. Each sector was assigned to a dif- ferent team, with each team consisting of two squirrels, two chipmunks and a duck. These teams were to maintain a watch over their sector; and report any unusual behavior. The remaining animals manned the group's headquarters. Since the meeting, some students have · reported sightings of unusual animal behavior. Recently, several squirrels were reported to have entered South dormitory by chewing through the screens. They have been found stealing supplies from unsuspecting students. \One of them stole my roommate's frozen pizza right : off the window ledge,\ ·com- mented Larry Jacobs~ '91.. The little scavengers were also spotted pilfering an entire bag of chocolate chip cookies from freshman Peter Heimdahl. Accompanying these reports were stories of ducks stationed in the bushes near Fox dor- mitory. Has the situation gotten out of hand? One student, Robert Sternburg, complained, \Those damn things left excrement all over the window sill. I think_. Security should be allowed to carry guns to take care of them.\ So far, however, Security has been relatl'vely ineffective. Traps have!. been set, but the squirrels that are trapped are soon released, easily finding their way back. Once Security realized the threat of these terrorists, a squirrel was kept for in- terogation. However, it swallowed a cyanide acorn, dying before any questions could be answered. The only defense against this insidious horde is public awareness. Only by informing the students, £acuity, and staff of Union College can \The Plan\ be foiled. So be on guard against any suspicious looking squirrels, chipmunks, or ducks. do you think I would tell y~u · But that''s one fine dog, sniffs For the past year or so, we ~e out a Democrat a .mile away. be~~ . up to . our keysters In Heck, I ·remember one night crttiClS~ of the CI4, and that when I forgot to takethe dog for shouldn t hap~en In a free his walk and Jesse Jackson coun.try · The fu·st amendment came over to tell me about a applies to them, too, so as far .as talk he had with some guy .. I m c~ncerned they can wnte named Arafat or something like anythi~g t~ey w~t about ~my that, and the dog thought he conmue pmkos m the Umted said \Arf \andhejust- States. That's one of the JV'·.. · ' freedoms our country was . . Than~ . you, ... Mr · founded on, the freedom to lie Pre~Ident. I think your wife Is about anything we want, as long callmg you. . ·. as we don't get caught doing it. Nancy: Ronnie? ,I made you JV: I suppose Ollie North some cocoa, 1t s bed~rme resigned his post because he for\--h excuse me, I didn't thought his first amend- know yo~ llad company .. Come inent liberties would reflect on, Ronme, you have to rest up badly~nyou? · for the big dinner tonight. It's RR: What!!! Ollie's out? ~oi~g to b~ rough,, since Scorpio Nancy, did you know Ollie's Is m Jupiter tomght, and you .gone? (No answer.) I .suppose . know how cranky you get when she was just trying to protect that happens. me. I didn't blow anything, I RR: Yes~ Mommie, I'll be mean anything, about those right there. _ arms deals with those NR: Say nighty-night to the terrorists. If I was going to sell nice reporter. weapons, I'd let someone else RR: Nighty-night, nice do it for me, but since someone reporter. else did it, I ·don't know JV: Good night, Mr. anything about it. Presider;J.t, and thank you. JV: Of course you don't, Mr. NR: Has Ronnie been a good . President; I didn't mean to boy? · upset you. RR: Yes, Monunie. RR: Well (Chuckle), no use NR: And did the nice reporter crying over spilt missiles, that's give you a lollipop for sitting what I always say. still_?? · JV: Ate you at all concerned, JV: I'm afraid I don't have a Mr. Reagan, with the fate of the lollipop, Mrs. Reagan, but Jill country after you leave office? be glad to gi:ve your husband a RR: Heck no! George is going piece .of bttbblegum. to do a fine job. RR: Oooooh, goody goody JV: And ... what if George goody. Thank you. doesn'tgetelected? . JV: Thank you, Mr.' RR: George who? President. .. Fast Foods Settle On Straws and Soda Continued from page 1 DonaldLand's Mayor McCheese a few years back as a revenge tactic, due to the tremendous failure 'of Burger King's silly characters around the same time. The King had no com- ment. Despite all this controversy, some limitation agreements were made. They each agreed to conceal the results of the hamburger meat \filth con- tent'' investigation made if! 1988, saying 'What's a few bug parts and rodent droppings anyway?\ They also agreed to continue mutually e~clusive cola rights. On a sad note to soda fanatics, they both voted thumbs down on adding root beer to their list of beverages for the tenth year straight. All told, it was a successful slliillnft ending i11 an agreement to meet in 1989 at Pizza Hut with the Domino'sNoid as mediator. The Union College Board of Trustees and Administration is sponso~ing a Closed Porum ''S t\ \ A orne 1me soon. · nyone interested is asked not to attend. The In News Brief The truce in the ''War of the parently a life si.ze placard of Cities'' between Iran and Iraq Mayor Ed Koch cametdifeand has apparently been broken. offended, a crowd of tourists. Ye$terda,y Iran called Iraq's • The balding six4oot cut-fjut of capital Baghdad \a slimy hole Koch, created .for tou.I1ist of a filthy dump ... encircled by photos, reportedly pinched a a trash heap.'' Iraq's females behind while she was spokesmen officially responded . having her picture taken with by quipping simply \a sesspoor' · him. The Ed•lilte monst~eosity when :asked about Iranian then went on to tell rude capital Teheran. It seems the ;ihecdotes about Elizabeth United Nations cannot arbitrate Taylor and George Micllaer. ae the dispute as the two Parties also told an .of.f~color joke about have called the UN a bunch of · New York Governor Mari() \misfits malcontents, and · Cuomo. The ugly incidelit ended ' paCifist wimps''. when a young cbi'ld bilrtlped' into· -Peace. Activists today the cardboard figure, spilling demonstrated across the stiCky orange soda, and sending country to protest the United ' the proto-Mayortumblillg to th~ States bombing of Hiroshima. · pavement. . In · addition, they demanded . -Residents of Billings, impeachment proceedings to be . MoJ;ttana have reported the brought against President .sighting of a space creature in 'l'ruman. A spokesman for their • the center of their town. An cause said, \We believe that · eight foot creature resembling Harry Truman is and always · a bear but Witb tusks and pink h b b' Kl d polka-dot wings ente1ed tbe as ·. een a Igot · ansman an . lacal Dunkin'Donuts anq an- is unfit to serve as our ' rtouneed that he was The President\. The White House . · · · · _ declined to comment officially, Loofah, sent here to he .planet but rumours abounded about a Earth to give each female supp· osed cotnment made by citizen between the ages of 16 and. 25 .\a· Loofah b .. uff\. 1 .. He spokesman Marlin Fitzwater:·· 1 ''I think Harry died in 1972 •.. \ · .specified he would like to begin The peace grimps then called . with redheads). The Lo<Jfah then ordered a dozen d()nut this statement \disin- · formation... more falsehoods · hQles (six chocolate and six: andvagueuntruths\. honey-dipped), a coffee (cream, no sugar), and a ......Senators Jessee Helms and · brocolli croissant. Teddy Kennedy finally agreed In a debate being held at a on something yesterday. The local community college, Republican from North Cong~essperson Pat SehroEder Carolina and Democrat from quipped, ''l'm ready for my Massachusetts signed a Loofah buff-hQW . ai:J!)Ut y-ou resolution stating, \There. is Phylis?\ to an unamused _significant evidence to indicate J?hylis Sch1afly. Schafly then that most penguins rarely grow retorted, \You're. not UJlder 25, beyond the height of three · Pat-and· I am sure even the feet\. The legislation also Loofah would find you detailed U.S. policy regarding revolting\. the black gibbon of Tibet, and -This months Climate the tree shrew of Zaire. Senator magazine has named weather Kennedy said in a prepared in Schenectady to be am()ng the sta~ement;- ''This is only the best in the world. Other places first step in the condemnation of named were the Soutb ·Sand- the Reagan Administration's wich Islands, Sri Lan-ka, and policy toward tiny, defenseless, Toowoomba, Australia and insignificant creatures. -The Security Department Next will be a resolution calling has announce~ the creation of a for close study of new \Special Forces\ unit. The Massachusetts ·marine unit will Wldertake such tasks biology... a subject dear to my as directing traffic that isn't heart''. there and guarding wet cell).ent _:_gtrange goings on in to insure students don't step in downtown New York. Ap- it. \If {\a-\-erniti es ale SeJZi s+ 1 why do you.. Su.~pose Women continue · fo 5o \to tne\\ pa.r+\es?ll We I ike chic:.ks. Goc\ \s dec:..d . - \I' th in th H - II II Ill

Talk of the ;Town \I'm Spuds' $tunt dog; I do the tricks, those women are mine; I make the bucks; I'm the beans; look at me now! Hey!! · Mozart \The three of us had an act •. . only Spuds made the big time.\ Asbery and' Marley ODE TO ·CHAS SNOTLICK A Ia Run. DMC by LeAta Jackson There was a man. his name was Chas He Sh9Wed his best side, yes his ass. . He thought he was cute, he would make a speech But we wanted him to just take a seat. We had a good laugh at some of his jokes He started out funny, then he began to choke. ·He talked about his friends all up arid down I'm surprised they didn't feather him-and run him out of town. He was very harsh on the sororities He chose to ignore his social niceties. Chas was down on the Kappas and the DU's too All he did W?S show that he, didn't have a clue. Now wtiai:-he had to ·say, was just so tacky.· · But he thought that he was funny and .wacky. Does Chas ev.en know he's a chauvinistic pig? Taking cheap pot and vicious digs At people who are really kinda nice. Chas was cold, cold, cold as ice! Anne Carl is cool, she tries to be aware What Chas had to s·ay was very unfair. The opinions of Chidsey are some~mes strong But to cut hitn down didn't take Chas long. The senior dinner could have been a nice affair If ortly Chas had thought to take some care. Chas' silver tongue has gotten him in trouble Get the tarnish remover on the double. · Chas, don't get mad, don't jump and shout, If you can't take it; don't dish it ~ut. Top 13 Top tO lists We Never Wrote (Because We'd Get in Too Much Trouble) By TMW and PJK 13. Top 10 reasons to joi.n a sorority 12. Top 1 o Newman Club scandals 11. Top 10 places on campus to break-in to 10. Top 10 places to \have an amorous encounter .. 9. Top 10 unnecessary items on .Union Club's expense vouchers. · 8. Top 1 o John Morgan quote_s 7. Top 10 places West obtains its vegetables and mystery meats · . 6. Top 10 ways to offend people in the library 5. Top 1 o fraternity plege ~ctivites · . .4. Top 10 discuss_ion topics for the JSU 3. Top 10 creatures the lady who pucnches meal cards look like · 2. Top 10 things to spend our tuition money on 1. Top 10 things SDT startr,ls for DISTORDIENSIS,· lime Z, <H88· . Page 3 FEATURES Distordiensis. r:ecently asked: \What do you think of Spuds McKenzie?'' \Screw Spuds ... fetcl:l me a Molson, when~·s Mozart?\ Mustard CHARLIE SLOiNIK \I knew him back a1 Princeton·. We cheated on our Play Dead 1c01 final.\ Basil DART BOARDS Go On Sale· Monday In Front of Carnegie. Please .Show Your Support For This Cause: Faces In· the Cr.owd \He sends me into heat. He's hot!\ Hadji \Personally I prefer Alex, the Coors dog.\ Oscar UNION COLLEGE FALL COURSE OFFERINGS REVISED LIST 1100 Creative Suffering 1101 Overcoming P~ce - of Mind 1102 You and Your Birthmark 1106 Molding your Child's Behavior Through Guilt and Fear 1108 Whine Your Way to Alienation 1109 How to Overcome Self- Doubt· Through Pretense & Ostentation 1300-1 \I Made $100 in Real Estate\ 130()..Z Money Can Make You Rich 1300-4 Career Opportunities in El Salvador 1300-8 Looter's Guide to America's Cities 1300-9 How You Can Convert Your R'Oom Into a Garage EC-6 1000 Other uses for Vacuum Cleaners EC-7 How to Convert a Wheelchair into a Dune Buggy · H202 Creative Tooth Decay H204 Exorcism and Acne H205 The Joys of Hypochondria H220 Biofeedback and How to Stop It H302 Skate Yourself to Regularity H406 · Understanding Nudity H408 Tapdance Your Way to Social Ridicule H404 Optional Body Functions Cl05 Cuticle Crafts t4os CultivaLing Viruses in Your Refrigerator E407 Sinus Drainage at Home E408 Basic Kitchen Taxidermy - -

) ' \ • > ~ I Page 4 DISTORDIENSJS, June-- 2, 1988 l!!l!l!!!i:Pl .•. ~ ... · .. ·.· ~ .. \•. p. .- . . ... .. ARTS & FILMS >- ~ t5 0:: c:c z ; ··: :.· . ::··· The WRUC New -s.97 A distorted countdown, submitted while the real music directors were in the bathroom. llll!ld t\lbum 1. Starship 2. The Other Kids ~ .·· 3. JeUomen We Built This City WutcrWatcr 12\ Left Off the Dial Eyebrows, Please The One l Love 12\ Bcho~ and Soc Can't Sp,cll >- <t z Q >- c:c 0 (; I c. 4. Willy Boyd and the Voids S.REM 6. Ultimate Spinach 7. The Editors 8. Tiffany 8.97 Missing Cheese Uvc in the College Center Spacemen Ate my Oldsmopile President Morris' band records another LP in the VVRUC strudios . . . . Another WRUC Record Review: Spacemen Ate My Oldsmobile BY BOB GOLDSTEIN President Morris' band, \Missing Chees.e,'' cut their third vinyl slab in the WRUC studios last week, this record being a compilation of punk songs originally do:ne by some well known bands. The record ~over features a photo of the band, President Morris on lead guitar and lead vocals. Vice President D'Andrea on drums and rhythm kazoo, Assistant Dean Alford on rhythm guitar, and Area Coordinator· Jack Edwards · on bass. The . photo was taken atop Achilles Rink at a time that the band members recall as ''just a nutty night.\ The album, entitled \Spacemen Ate My Old- smoi>ile,\ opens with a thrash version of \Sexcrime which was originally done by the Eurythmics. Other songs done with a punk tinge include Pee Wee Herman's Anthem \Tequila The Pogues' \If I Should Fall From Grace With God,\ Billy Bragg's \Help Save the Youth of America,'' and Union's \Terrace Song.\ The one original song, \Bailey Cries,\ reveals some of the methods of . limiting possible winners of the Bailey Prize in the lines \You can pull her name from the hat I it'll never fit on the plaque.\ The version of the Smith's ''Headmaster Rituals\ contains a somewhat unintelligible backwards vocals track that seems to :say either ''I stand in yearly late and rude mints\ or possibly \1 am sincerely Satan, students.\ 'The band iienies ever recording such a track. In its first week of release, the album bas. already been used for a Casey Casem long distance dedication, and has been featured as an up-f,md- coming-a:rtist on MTV's \120 minutes. •• 'their record 1s not, however; expected to top RUC's own \Ne\V 8.97 Countdown,\ for fear of the embarrassment after Dick Clark featUred it on American Bandstand. The Weekend Movie: w·Es·T WALL STCREET' INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Ii>istnrhirnllf!i SPORTS Internatio.nal Non-Issue by Aimc Simon International Features Editor If you could eat any country in the world which would you eat and wl1y? Alberto Iaia {88) • I would cat Italy, because it's shaped like a boot and I enjoy the smell of feet. V. Nicotina (88) • Chile, it is long and thin, and I love spaghetti! Chris Merk (91) - France, there is a Gennan saying which states that the Gods would eat Lbere when they came down, John Donohue (9()) - Any country that is full of mushrooms. Cindy Curtis (90) • A country wouldn't be enough for me. I'll take a cootinent - Antarctica because I could go for a giant· snoW -cone right now. Melanie Masterson (S9) • Greece, because the name reminds me of my favorite cheeseburger anhe Skellar. Jose Andrade (90) • I think I woUld devour Gennany because of its varying tastes in_ East and West Gennany - The best of both worlds! Sanjai Rao (90) • Ireland, so I could at least get a buzz_ off it. Josh Markfield (!>0) · Sweden, because I love those meatballs. THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH (by the way, these are really true.~.) China: Bachelor Gong Janguo wants a new bride but she's got to have yellow hair, speak English and have a yen for Beijing. The 31- ycar-old interpreter rrom Beijing made his wishes known in a 1etter to officials in Somerset. England. West German.): .Shocked police found :he ho<ly of a man who had oc..:c..:n luiic..:J U.) o~ .1.uv lJc,;,u .1ft.:r Lhc victi:n had c;trippcd ciown tn his birthday suit and crawled into the animal's cage. Great Britain: Perplexed parents Audrey and Hugh Manwaring- Spenccr have been ordered to change their daughter's name because the 2-ycar-old tot can't be call~d Princess in lhe royal realm of Great Britain. East Germany: Rock wizard Michael Jackson has flipped over the tonid beauty and dancing dazzle of Olympic champ Katarina Witt and IS wooing the icc cutie with flowers and a tempting invitation. Mike wants the sultl)' East German skater to join him on his tour. And sources say his real goal is to do a fabulous dance duct With Katie. Iran; An IraniM fighter jet circled an airfield for a solid hour before it landed wir.h a dead man at the controls. Teheran radio reports said at least 200 Air Force personnel watched the American-made F-14 Tomcat interceptor make a perfect landing after perforn'ling a series of acrobatics, including several victory rolls, over th~ unidentified air base. Psychic force guided fighter back to earth, say experts. Softball wrap-up by someone who didn't see the game · ByTIMWYMES Last'rhursday, the two media superpOower::; of Union College clashed in the spirit of eternal combat in the ultimate test of athletic1sm: a game of softball. The Mother-WRUCkers of WRUC faced the Muckrakers of Collcordiensis for the third ammal charity game to break the existing 1-1 tie. Since I'm sure nobody reany gives a hoot whO won (Concordy 14-13 for those who do care), I'll just cite a few of the highlights from the game. There was a rough start for WRUC as a power struggle between Fast Ed Koval and Nini Mehta in- sued ()Ver the batting order. Fast Ed broke his itnmortal streak of no technical errors, blowing the play-by-play set-up. Tina Hong and Stephanie Jal:'yrta polished off a carton of Camel filterless between them by the fifth inning stretch. Mark \Hot Hands\ Haughton covered third basE: well, but his per- formance was overshadowed by that of Mozart the Dog as third· base coach. On a similar note, WRUC scored an accidental run when DJ KJ's (Kenny Jarvis) fresh gestures on the sidelines were mistaken for a steal signal. Fiona Shukri intimidated the opponents with threats of blowing up the Nott. Conrad Tatge had a tough time at centerfield, dropping one pop- fly because be thought he saw CHIP and Bert cheering for him on the sidelines. John \Benedict WRUC Arnold\ Morgan spilled gatorade all over his new jer- sey. Andy \Sports is my Life\ Miller played center field like a demon u~til he dropped and was carried away to the infirmary. There was trouble from the fans as Dave Cohen showed up threatening Alex Gardener with a gun. Chris Hinckley did pretty well considering he had to play one•handed due to a Heineken- Hartdicap. Sue Kersh had pit- ches too fast for stol>\action photos. Bruce Pennypacker's calculations of speed and velocity of pitch made him an infallible hitter; Jay Freeland missed his turn at bat ·twice while running for f:t·equent beers at Fiji. Larry Jacobs, playing WAY out in left field, missed a few pop-flies While picking flowers, was quoted saying \No problem, it's kool.\ A pro~ball scout wanted to know if R. Reed Whidden was a guy or girl for the draft. And lastly, Karen Schaefer put the entire crowd to sleep while reading the final statistics. It shouldbenotedthat the two media-masses did raise over $150 for the · Big Brothers/Sisters of Schenec- tady. Half or l~ss of the Coneordiensls staff softball players - th~ Dave - about to foul out - again. worse half.!

Patge 4 DISTORDJENSJS, June 2, 1988 . ARTS & FILMS The WRUC r • =-•• New ·s.97 A distorted countdown, submitted while the real music directors were in the bathroom. !}.lllld l. Starship 2. The Other Kitls 3. Jcllomcn ~.\\'illy I3ojd amlthc Voids 5. REM 6. Ultimate Spinach 7. The Editors 8. Tiffany 8.97 Missing Cheese ~lhum We Built This City Water Water 12\ LZ' ft Off the Dial E) chrow~. Plca<;e The One 1 Love 12\ Behold and Sec Can't Sp,cll Live in the College Center Spacemen Ate my Oldsmobile President Morris' band records another LP in the WHUC s:udios Adventure Picks: The· Smiths, Gene Loves Gezebel, The Cure Another WRUC Record Review: Spacemen Ate My Oldsmobile \Headmaster Rituals\ conta·ins a somewhat unintelligible backwards vocals track that seems to say either \I stand in yearly late and rude mints\ or possibly \l am sincerely Satan, students.\ The band -denies ever recording such a track. In its first week of release, the album has already been used for a Casey Casem long distance dedication, and has been featured as an up-and- coming-artist on MTV's \120 minutes.\ Their record 1s not, however, expected to top RUC's own \New 8.97 Countdown,\ for fear of the embarrassment after Dick Clark featured it on American Bandstand. I Programming Notes: The programming manager will pick a. record and leave it playing until we return in September. BY BOB GOLDSTEIN President Morris' band, ·•Missing Cheese,\ cut their third vinyl slab in the WRUC studios last week, this record being a compilation of punk songs originally done by some well known bands. The record ~over features a photo of the band, President Morris on lead guitar and lead vocals, Vice President D'Andrea on drums and rhythm kazoo, Assistant Dean Alford on rhythm guitar, and Area Coordinator Jack Edwards on bass. The photo was taken atop Achilles Rink at a time that the band members recall as \just a nutty night.\ The album, entitled ··spacemen Ate My Old- smobile,\ opens with a thrash version of \Sex crime,\ which was originally done by the Eurythmics. Other songs done with a punk tinge include Pee Wee Herman's Anthem \Tequila The Pogues' \If I Should Fall From Grace With God,\ Billy Bragg's \Help Save the Youth of America,\ and Union's \Terrace Song.\ The one original song, \Bailey Cries,\ reveals some of the methods of limiting possible winners of the Bailey Prize in the lines \You can pull her name from the hat I it'll never fit on the plaque.'' The version of the Smith's INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Non-Issue by Aime Simon International .Features :Editor If you could eat any country in the world which would you eat and why? Alberto Iaia (lig) . I would cat Italy, because it's shaped like a boot and I enJOY the smell of feet V. Sicotina (88) • Chile, it is long and thin, and I luve spaghetti! Chris Merk (91) · hancc, there is a German saying which states that the Gods would eat there when they came down. Juhn Donohue {90) · Any country that is full of mushrooms. Cindy Curtis (90) · A country wouldn't be enough for me. I'll take a continent· Antarc.tica because I could go for a giant- snow-cone right now. ;\lelanie Masterson (89) - Greece, because the name reminds me of my favorite cheeseburger at the Skcllar. I . Jose Andrade (90) ·I think I would devour Germany because of its varying wstcs in East and West Germany - The best of botJJ worlds! ILSanjai Rao (90) ·. Irddnd, so I could at least get a buzz off it. Josh Markficld (90) - Sweden, because I love those meatballs. THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH (by the way, these are really true, .. ) 1 'hina: Rachcl,>r Gong Jan guo wants ~ new bride hut shc\s got to h..1\<.' yeliov .. h.t,r. ~p.:.1k English and 11.1\L' a yen for Beijing. The 31· v,·:tr ul,l !lttc·rp<:kr h>m Bcijmg nude hts wishes known in a letter to '·t 1 ;r ;,,;- u1 Solllt:r'>' ~. Ent,;l.md. V\,e~t (~l·r,ii.Ut.\-: :.J.I, .. ...t·i! i~,·L~,.t f(:,:: .. d :·~~l· L,·.i; ,.f J m~111 '.\·l~nhad ._,_,:: .. ,. ...... ·.__ :·l·.~: ,:,.~.;'1 i.:lt' \:. '.·:· L,l. ;r.t'J'L'd di)V.f~ ~~ hi~ t'J: ~~il!.t) :-,l •• t .~·: .• 1 ... :..1\,lLd li~l() LhL :t:,.:1i t: .... ~·:tt-'L' <;rl'Jt Britain: ;'apln..:d par<:n\<. .\cHlrc:y and !bgh Manwarin,!!· SJ\-'m:cr La\..: been ,mkrcd to change tla:tr <.lJll!;htcr\ name hc<:ause the 2 )Car·old lot c;ut t ~ called Princ.:e:.s in the royal realm of Creal B:1tam. Ea-.t Germany: Roc.:k wi1.ard Michael Jackson has nipped over the tt•rrHJ beauty anJ dancmg dau.lc of Olympic champ Katarina Witt and ;s womng the J<..:c cutic v.1th Oowcrs and a tempting invitation. Mike ·;;.J.nts 1.hc sultry East German skater to join him on his tour. And · •urce:. ~.!\ LL~ ~~..~1 1 ~t>J: 1s to do a fabu!Dus .lance du.:t with Katie. Iran; An lr<1lll·ll! f1t:;Ltcr Jd ur,:.:.! .lfl a:rficlcl for a \1lid hour before 11 :.!lldnl w 1 th .1 dead lll.IIl at t.Jw l ,;r.trob. Teheran radio report~ said at ,,.; 2·~1 Ail I,.: ,. ; ,·1 .• '·,·:1 · ... :!ch·_··l !he l\r:1•·ric<Jn made f 14 Tomcat interceptor make a perfect landmg after performing a st:nt.!~ oi acrobatics, including several victory rolls, over the unidentified air base. Psychic force guided fighter back to earth, say experts. The Weekend Movie: WEST WALL STREET _w_m_ru_ro_~_\_w __ s_P_o_R_T __ s __ ~~~-------------- Softball wrap-up by someone who didn't see the game threatening Alex Gardener with a gun. Chris Hinckley did pretty well considering he had to play one-handed due to a Heineken- Handicap. Sue Kersh had pit- ches too fast for stop-action photos. Bruce Pennypacker's calculations of speed and velocity of pitch made him an infallible hitter. Jay Freeland missed his turn at bat twice while running for frequent beers at Fiji. Larry Jacobs, playing WAY out in left field, missed a few pop-flies while picking flowers, was quoted saying \No problem, it's kool.\ A pro-ball scout wanted to know if R. Reed Whidden was a guy or girl f()r the draft. And lastly, Karen Schaefer put the entire crowd to sleep while reading the final statistics. ByTIMWYMES Last Thursday, the two media superpowers of Union College clashed in the spirit of eternal combat in the ultimate test of athleticism: a game of softball. The Mother-WRUCkers of WRUC faced the Muckrakers of Concordiensis for the third annual charity game to break the existing 1-1 tie. Since I'm sure nobody really gives a hoot who won ( Concordy 14-13 for those who do care), I'll just cite a few of the highlights from the game. There was a rough start for WRUC as a power struggle between Fast Ed Koval and Nini Mehta in- sued over the batting order. Fast Ed broke his immortal streak of no technical errors, blowing the play-by-play set-up. Tina Hong and Stephanie Jaryna polished off a carton of Camel filterless between them by the fifth inning stretch. Mark \Hot Hands\ Haughton covered thlrd base well, but his per- f()rmance was overshadowed by that of Mozart the Dog as third· base coach. On a similar note, WRUC scored an accidental run when DJ KJ's (Kenny Jarvis) fresh gestures on the sidelines were mistaken for a steal signal. Fiona Shukri intimidated the opponents with threats of blowing up the Nott. Conrad Tatge had a tough time at centerfield, dropping one pop- fly because he thought he saw CHIP and Bert cheering for him on the sidelines. John \Benedict WRUC Arnold\ Morgan spilled gatorade all over his new jer- sey. Andy \Sports is my Life\ Miller played center field like a demon until he dropped and was carried away to the infirmary. The1·e was trouble from the fans as Dave Cohen showed up It shoald be noted that the two media-masses did raise over $150 for the Big Brothers/Sisters of Schenec- tady. Half or less of the Concordlensls staff softball players - the Dave - about to foul out - again. worse haHI

