' . Vol. ·cXVJJ, No. 3 Schenectady, New York October 6, 1988 WoodroW Wilson Fellow to Lecture at Union Freshman ·Dinners Stress Active Participation in Education Cmtrtesy of the · Huma11Uies D.epartment Nicholas .Delbanco, author and director of the creative writing program at the 'By KEVIN W. IRLAND Good food, stimulating conversation. and the opportunity to meet faculty Wells, and a book ·on The members, administrators, and Beaux Arts Trio. He has · upperclass students. These tead his ~ork at many colleges, opportunities were aU made · including Bard, Colgate, ,I available .• through the recent · ComeH, Iowa, Middlebury, and dinners for the Freshman . Wesleyan, and has published Class, to all members of the · many articles and revie:ws on Class of 1992. contemporary literature in As Dean of Faculty James -leading journals and magazines. ·. Underwood and Dean of Before joining the faculty at Students Joseph Mammola Michigan, he taught at stated, the dinners were meant Bennington, Skidmore,. and . to give the freshmen a chance Williams. In addition to to meet informally with ~ ·teaching writing, he has special . various Union College . B . intnetremstp'soriarny, afu.t. tcotl?oinogrpaopehtirc• professors, administrators, and ~ co e · . . ·· · · • · . · upperclassmen. Mammola also drama and dramatic poetry, and hoped that, \the dinners would Shakespeare. give fresbrnen the message that Woo«;t:ri>w. WiiS~on Visjtjng' Fellow NiCholas Delbanco. University of -Michigan, will: be at Union .from Monday,' October 10th, ·to Friday,' October 14th, as a Woodrow. Wilson Visiting · Fellaw. All interested sttidents, faculty, and staff are encouraged to attend the several classroom and group sessions at which he will speak. Since receiving his B.A. in . history an.d literature from Harvard, and his M.A. in English and comparative . literature from Columbia, Mr. Delbanco bas received many · honors and awards as a writer. He is the author of ten novels, · a collection of short stories, a · work of literary and biographical criticism entitled Group P9rtrait: Conrad, Crane, Ford, James and As a W ooodrow Wilson · · their ·education is a process the Visiting Fellow, Mr. Delbanco . administration and faculty want is a part of a prestigious ~ them 'to be actively involved national program to help . with.'' students p:Fepare to be , B'ased on these goa1s and. the productive citizens in both the . relative success of the dinner public and private spheres. For · series, it can be said that the mote tnan a decade, the· freshmen have benefitted from program has strived to bring the dinners. When questioned about closer relations between about the dinners, most ·Continued on page 3 . . . Restore The Nott Rally Challenges Administration By JENNIFER HOLMES ·I significanc. e.\ It also states that · \we further agree to affix tbe A Restore the Nott rally was 1 plaque for public view and in held on Thursday, September : an · appropriate manner.\ 29, outside the Nott Memorial. Apparently there will be a This tally elaborated on the meeting with the j chairman of .. Administration's lack of action the Buildings .and Grounds concerning the restoration of· . Committee of the Board of the Nott Memorial and the · · Trustees in mid~October to placement of a plaque on this . begin plans for renovation. building. The pl~q~e designates · The plaque has not be~n the~ott M~mo~als status as a placed on the Nott Memonal N atto~al H1sto!lc Landmark. . because \they have not had an K~1th. B'enus, founder and · appropriate titne to place it on president of the Restore the the building .... Bemis said that N ott Initiative placed a pester II he challenges the facsimile of the plaque on the . administration to show the Nott Memorial II to tell devotion needed to restore the everyone that we are devoted. to · Nott Memorial.\ He suggests getting. the Nott ¥~mor.Ial· Homecoming Weekend as the restored.~d the adl~um~.tratton ·''appropriate time for this since lacks thts devotton. The · the alunuii return to Union.\ administration did send a letter Edward T. Potter, an alum, datOO, J':\Y 30, 1986 \making !designed the Nott. Certainly. applicatton for a bronze plaque it was not created for ultimate to identify Ute property as a • deterioration. Union's national Historic Landmark.\ bicentennial is a logical date to The letter states that;'' we·· comp.lete the restoration by. agre~ to preserve . so far as The Department of Interior and practicable and to the best o~ the Trustees are behind this our ability, t_he histor~cal cause, the final step of support values ~f~e stte that s~ttsfy must be taken by the the cntena for rtat10nat Administration.\ freshmen replied that they found them very informativ:e. Melissa Isenstein '92., stated that, \it was interesting to be on the . same level as the \. • • the dinners would· give freshmen the message that their education is a process the Administration and faculty want them to be actively involved with.\ -Dean Mammola Both Underwood and Mammola also stated that the dinners \would provide · illvaluable information to the Committee on the Freshman Year.\ This· committee is studying the freshman year at Union and will make proposals for changes that should be made to ease the problems of transition to college life. When questioned on the fllture of the dinner series, both administrators remained optimistic, despite the less · administrators .and faculty in than anticipated turnout. It is attendance\ and that, \it was prwicted that when the series is interesting to see the path that c<>IDpl'ete later next week, that . various upperclassmen took.\ approximately 250 of a class of Bonnie Kapiloff and Len Zaiser 53() would have attended a beth echoed Isenstein's dinner. · Among· the remarks, saying that, ' 1 it' was pC>ssibilities for changes, are a . nice to sit with professors in rearrangement of the process by · an informal atmosphere.\ · whi<;h people were invited, the · Underwood and Mammola also · invitation of more faculty and · ·. found simllar sentiments from upperclassmen, and scheduling students they questioned on the tlle runners during a latter part relative success of the dirmers. e>f tile term. In addition to the goals Mammola and Underwood · directed towards the Class of als~ stated that the possibility 1992, the dinners were also for similar events which unite meant to provide valuable · freshmen, upperclassmen, information to the faculty, and administrators, are administration and faculty. in tlle works. Among the Underwood stated that the · p<>ssibilities are having dinners were partially designed tlleetings within the dorms for to give,. \the faculty a chance. i11formal discussion or even to see what the experiences of having a panel discussion at the freshman year are and how . which freshmen would be asked they affect those individuals in t() speak on their college the class.\ experiences. Artist Delivers Minerva Lecture By LORI ESTES Maggie Sherman, a visual artist, presented her lecture \Art on a Limb\ Thursday, September 29 during the Minerva Hour. Her lecture, accompanied by a slide presentation, introduced Union College to the relatively new concept of mask making from plaster. Ms. Sherman's credits include an exhibit at the Tennessee State Museum and the \Mask Montgomery\ · project. ' Ms. Sherman was commissioned by the Teflrtessee State Museum to · create mask and persona box ima:ges celebrating twenty-five m>table Tennesseans, including Loretta Lynn, Patricia Neal and Ale.x Hailey. Ms. Sherman created the masks, but let the ce;lebrities decorate them according to their own taste, thereby adding a personal touch to the plaster masks and wooden boxes. In her next project, \Mask Montgomery,\ Maggie Continued on page 3 Photo of the Week: Union found Itself submerged beneath nearly a foot of snow one year ago this week.

Vol. CXVII, No.. 3 Schenectady, New York October 6, 1988 Woodrow Wilson Fellow to Lecture at Union Courtesy of the Humanities Department Nicholas Delbanco, author and director of the creative writing program at the Wells, and a book on The Beaux Arts Trio. He has read his ~ork at many colleges, including Bard, Colgate, Cornell, Iowa, Middlebury, and Wesleyan, and has published many articles and reviews on contemporary literature in l' leading journals and magazines. 1 Before joining the faculty at Michigan, he taught at Bennington, Skidmore, and Williams. in addition to If teaching writing, he has special ~ interests in autobiography, ::'! contemporary fiction, poetic -; drama and dramatic poetry, and ~ Shakespeare. ~ As a Wooodrow Wilson 6: Visiting Fellow, Mr. Delbanco § is a part of a prestigious ~ national program to help ~ students prepare to be a. productive citizens in both the Woodrow Wilson Visiting' public and private spheres. For Fellow Nicholas Delbanco. more than a decade, the University of Michigan, will program has strived to bring be at Union from Monday, about closer relations between Freshman Dinners Stress Active Participation in Education By KEVIN W. IRLAND Good food, stimulating ::onversation, and the opportunity to meet faculty members, administrators, and upperclass students. These opportunities were all made available, through the recent 1 dinners for the Freshman Class, to all members of the Class of 1992. As Dean of Faculty James Underwood and Dean of Students Joseph Mammola stated, the dinners were meant freshmen replied that they found them very informative. Melissa Isenstein '92., stated that, \it was interesting to be on the same level as the ' 0 ••• the dinners would give freshmen the mess2ge that their education is a process the Administration and faculty want them to be activeBy involved with.\ -Dean Mammola to give the freshmen a chance ---~\\\\' ...... ,..,........., .......... to meet informally with administrators and faculty in various Union College attendance\ and that, \it was professors, administrators, and interesling to see the path that upperclassmen. Mammola also various upperclassmen took.\ hoped that, \the dinners would Bonnie Kapiloff and Len Zaiser give freshmen the message that both echoed Isenstein's their education is a p.mcess the remarks, saying that, \it was administration and faculty want nice to sit with professors in them to be actively involved an informal atmosphere.\ with.\ Underwood and Mammola also Based on these goals and the found similar sentiments from relative success of the dinner students they questioned on the series, it can be said that the relative success of the dinners. freshmen have benefitted from In addition to the goals the dinners. When questioned directed towards the Class of about the dinners, most 1992, the dinners were also Both Underwood and Mammola also stated that the -dinners \would pmvide :irtvaluable information to the Committee on the Freshman . Year.\ This committee is studying the freshman year at Union and will make prop-osals for changes that shoul<l be made to ease the problems of transition to college life. When question(•d Dn the fl.lture of the dinm'r '-Cfll~s. both :administrators remained uptimistic, despite the less than anticipated turnout. It is JPrc.dicted that when the series is complete later next week, that approximately 250 of a class of .530 would have attend-ed a dinner. Among the possibilities for changes, are a rearrangement of the process by which people were invited, the invitation of more faculty and upperclassmen, and scheduling the dinners during a latter part of the term. October lOth, to Friday, Continued on page 3 October 14th, as a Woodrow ----------------------- meant to provide valuable information to the administration and faculty. Underwood stated that the dinners were partially designed to give, \the faculty a chance to see what the experiences of the freshman year are and how they affect those individuals in Mammola and Underwood also stated that the possibility for similar events whicll unite freshmen, upperclassmen, faculty, and administrator~. are in the works. Among the possibilities are having meetings within the dorms for informal discussion or even having a panel discussion at whi<::h freshmen would be asked to speak on their college ex-periences. Wilson Visiting Fellow. All interested students, facility, and staff are encouraged to attend the several classroom and group sessions at wilich he will speak. Since receiving his :B.A. in history and literature from Harvard, and his M.A. in English and comparative literature from Columbia, Mr. Delbanco has received many honors and awards as a writer. He is the author of ten novels, a collection of short stories, a work of literary and biographical criticism entitled Group Portrait: Conrad, Crane, Ford, James and .. JJ,t.ttiQiJ~~j~\ union's owtl 1 'A'' (\A\ for astrolc>lfst, and arts) ptemets ' your Union future • .. .... p. ·15 .. women's field bockey t~am remains ····· , :iultdefeated!• · Restore The Nott Rally Challenges Administration By JEN!'JIFER HOLMES A Restore the Nott rally was held on Thursday, September 29, outside the Nott Memorial. This rally elaborated on the Administration's lack of action concerning the restoration of the N ott Memorial and the placement of a plaque on this building. The plaque designates the Nott Memorial's status as a National Historic Landmark. Keith Bemis, founder and president of the Restore the Nott Initiative placed a poster facsimile of the plaque on the N ott Memorial \to tell everyone that we are devoted to getting the Nott Memorial restored and the administration lacks this devotion.\ The administration did send a letter dated July 30, 1986 \making application for a bronze plaque to identify the property as a national Historic Landmark.\ The letter states that,\ we agree to preserve so far as practicable and to the best of our ability, the historicaE values of the site that satisfy the criteria for national \ ' significance.\ It also states that \we further agree to affix. the . plaque for public view and in . an appropriate manner.\ 1 Apparently there will be a ; meeting with the I chainnan of the Buildings and Grounds Committee of the Board of Trustees in mid-October to begin plans for renovation. The plaque has not been placed on the Nott Memorial because \they have not had an appropriate time to place it on the building.\ Bemis said that \he challenges the administration to show the devotion needed to restore the Nott Memorial.\ He suggests Homecoming Weekend as the \appropriate time for this since the alumni return to Union.\ Edward T. Potter, an alum, !designed the Nett. Certainly, it was not created for ultimate deterioration. Union's bicentennial is a logical date to · complete the restoration by. The Department of Interior and the Trustees are behind this cause, the final step of support must be taken by the · Administration.\ the class.\ Artist Delivers Minerva Lecture By LORI ESTES Maggie Sherman, a visual artist, presented her lecture \Art on a Limb\ Thursday, September 29 during the Minerva Hour. Her lecture, accompanied by a slide presentation, introduced Union College to the relatively new concept of mask making from plaster. Ms. Sherman's credits include an exhibit at the Tennessee State Museum and the \Mask Montgomery\ project. Ms. Sherman was commissioned by the Tennessee State Museum to c:reate mask and persona box images celebrating twenty-five notable Tennesseans, including Loretta Lynn, Patricia Neal and Alex Hailey. Ms. Sherman c:reated the masks, but let the c:e:lebrities decorate tllem according to their own taste, thereby adding a personal touch to the plaster masks and wooden boxes. In her next project, .. Mask Montgomery,\ Maggie Continued on pagE 3 Photo of the Week: Union found itself submerged beneath nearly a foot of snow one year ago this we.ek.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS Octl!bet; 6, U88 ·NEWS ANALYSIS .. \•• , .. --- . Congress A'llows for Loopholes in Republican and Democrat S .P.A~A. ·continues to Tackle P'olitical Problem:s C ' • s ·d·:· ampatgn · p'en · 1ng . . . \ Hy TJJOMAS CHASE political action gro.up at St .. Lawrence (I transferred this year) I was somewhat .skeptical about what I would find. At St. Lawrence the students in the ·polltical action group seemed to be of basically two types. The' first being the hostile .student that is convinced that everyone else is apathetic and he or she is the ;only one that really cares; that only he or sbe can see the real problem and that everyone else is ju:st being petty. tile second being tb.e student that sensed it was in vogue to be soci~Jly \concemeQ.\ and kept making By BRAD MONDSCHEIN opened a loophole that has · allowed the candidates to spend· most of their campaign money on television advertisements. Many people see the The state campaigns, such. as presidential campaign Victory ~88 for the Republicans happening on the t~levision. and .Campaign '88 for the The campaign advertisements Democrats, provide the are part of the modern national campaign with polls presidential race for the and mailings· that the national presidency. The ads arepaidfor campaign would otherwise by contributors for the have to perform themselves .. campaign. The amount of The amount of money saved is money expended on campaigns estimated to be tens of millions is regulated by the Congress. according to The New York Congress passed the bill in : Times. An example is- the 197 4 in reaction to the · Democratic campaign structure Watergate scandals of the 1972 in Chicago. Campaign '88:has Nixon campaign. The ceiling 115 people working for the that is imposed on the general .. organization and is working on election for this year is 54.4 ' a 2 million dollar budget. The million. dollars .. This means · Dukakis for President that the presidential candidate is campaign has 4 working not allowed to spend more than people. this for his election. The The loophole is easy to get congress in 1979 passed a law around. The Campaign •gg or that excluded state parties Victory '88 work is for the from being included in the total . entire ·party. The polls and amount of campaign furids targeted mailings are done for being used. every Democrat or Republican The passage of the bill running for office. The, results · are -obtained by the National It seems a strange paradox Campaigns but they are not that while the time . an acquired specifically for the inclividual spends at college is, Campaigns.. Professor : for the average ·student, the Tidrnarch, Chairman of the nt()st intensive four years of · . Political Science Department, · · study in his or her lifetime. It · sees a ptoblem with the ·. is at the same time the four · N a:ti on a 1 C a m.pa tg n . years in which that stu:dent is · inv()lvement with the separate · . m()st ignorant. Collegiate life state groups. It 'is believed that · offers so much in terms of the National Campaigns run · ac!ldernics, athletics~ and social the :state offices that are · life,. that few students receive · • supposed to be under the · regular e:K:posure t9 the nightly . C()ntrol of the State party news and the daily paper. It committee. The workets. for the. seems unfortunate that at a Campaigns refuse to answer, · vecy selective institution like any questions about tl)e link Union the student body should between the parties and the be so removed from ·the social state organizations. As. of yet and political probl~ms that ate the amount spent in the · b~ing debated beyond. the election should not exceed the confines of our protective am()UI1t of the 1972 campaign, campus grounds. bat if the congress allows the Ill reaction to this feeling of · looph.ole to exist the amount . is()Iation and ignorance I · of .spending will increase. If attended my fitst meeting of ·this. occurs the law of 1974 S..P.A.A. {Stu:dents for will not have prevented more PoJitical Awareness and . damage being done by . Action) last Sunday evening. · Corporations that donate Judging from my past moaey over the required limit. experience with the student · v~gue references to some future revolution with remarks lilce, \Dude ·we just .gotta ch.ange the system, Dude, that's what we gotia do. Just ·Change it. Wanna hack, Dude?\ · From thjs experience I didn't expect SP AA to be anythmg more than just a group of • .I disgruntled students that enjoy . meeting once a week to complain for an ho\11'. Despite , this expectation, { wa$ pleasantly._sllrprised by what I ___ .....,.. ___________________________________ ___, _ __........__-----.----------. ·found. SPAA seems to be. ll1l ,.· The Relationships. Between The Election, The Presidency and Th,e Supreme Court By JED FERDINAND O'Connor, Scalia, Kennedy, ~ and fue·elevation of Rehnquist A brief look into the future to Chief Justice, were all of American politics. May, deliberate attempts at reversing 1991. Following the death of the Court's progressive attitude the last remaining liberal . of the sixties and early Supreme Court Justice, . seventies. The Reagan attempt President George Bush · has been thwarted for the nominates the leader of the moment, as the three liberal John Birch Society to fill the justices have demonstrated vacancy. To the cries of \down great longevity. A delicate with Roe v. Wade,\ President babince remains on the Court, Bush ~tnd his advisors, Jesse · as most cases are decided by a Helms and Jerry Pal well, five to four margin. Yet, the celebrate the birth of a solidly replacement of any liberal conservative Supreme Court. justice by a conservative one This political prediction, . would be sufficient for although somewhat facetious, · · transforming the Cou:rt into .a is intemded to stress the nature conservative force in American of what might be the most politics. important is sue in this The probability of change campaign: the Supreme Court. within the Supreme Court With the three liberal Supreme · helps define the essence of this Court justices now over eighty presidential campaign: there is years of ~ge, it appears that the no single issue which better next ,President may have the illustrates the differences opp or tun i ty to make between the two candidates .. appointments which. will alter Should Michael Duk:akis win the Court's ideology. Thus, the November election, the the winner of this year's three ailing libera.ts on the Presidential election will shape COurt would probably retire our way of life well.into the with the security of knowing next century. that they would be replaced by Througho11t the Reagan progressive justices. President years, the right-wing . of the Dukakis would nominate Republican party has been justices who reflected his belief working towards the creation of in the preservation of a strictly conservative Supreme individual freedoms. His· Court. The nominations of choices would most likely be youn~g conservatives, against the death penalty, prayers in schools! and most- The Court would be imtx>rtantly, against limiting · triDsformed into a conservative woman's right to choose. an , to<>l for Bus)J, leaving abortion. Yet, his nominations · Congress as the sole wo11ld only maintain the progressive branch of current ideological balance. The . government. only hope for shifting the For those voters wh6' are Cou:rt back to the left would be still undecided about the · the :retirement of Justice Byron u}lcoming election, and are White,. who has grown lol)king for a reason to vote increasingly conservative in . one way or the other, here is an · recent years. isn e of the utmost importance. A I>ukalds win ' Sboitld George Bush become would at least preserve the Pre;:;ident, a fundamental essence of an open-minded chmge in the Court will be .· Sllpreme Court. A Bush win. likely. He wm be pressured will secure the death of the int() choosing young · m()derate Court, and create a conservative Justices by the conservative body which ·will voca 1 right-wing of · the pr()fess the blessings of modern R.ep11blican party. President . ·right-wing fanaticism. If there B11sh.'s nominees will be set . was ever a reason for forth to continue the Rehnquist . progressive, liberal, or even Colitt's assauLt on liberal . tn()derate Americans to hope dec.isions involving individual for a Dukakis victory in liberties: the first victim will N()<vember, it would be to prQ!lJably be the in~am .. ous_1?73 j' preserve the sanctity of the Roov. Wade abortlondectston. Sllpreme Court. . ' active, non·pru;tisan group that is accepting of just about any idea that encourages political· action and awareness. The projects that are already under development include the organization of !l discussion of the presidential candidate's platforms at which representatives of bath sides will speak, research .of . reoycling possibilities a.t . Union, organizing volunteers for a local soup kitchen, and • research into various environmental issues. All of fh·ese projects. welcome volunteers and SP AA as a whole welcomes people ()f any political bent. If these issues sound' interesting, if y()tt have interests of your own, or if you just feel ignorant and want to find out what is going on, please participate in the group. SPAA has weekly meetings in Room 410 of the College Center every Sunday evening at 8:30. The ad hoc committee considering the tenurability of Professor Harold Fried will welcome testimony on the candidate's teaching, scholarship/ research, and college service. If you wish to contribute,, either in writing or orally, to,the process of evalutation please contact Professor Jonas, Department of History, at ext.ension 6072. Professors Hans Freund, James Kenney, Karl Zimmermann, and chairing it, Manfred Jonas were appointed to serve on the committee.

' •' I ' I 'I ·' . CONCOBDIENSIS October 6. !!188 Rules and Regulations Established for Use of th~ Colle-ge Center By ELlS~ FOODY News Editor With the 1988.:89 school well underway, the C<;>Uege Center · Adillinlstration bas outlined a n.um&er of policies which must be adhered to 'by those who wish to use the facility. These rules will also \Rides needed/Rides availa_ bl_ e_ \ · building dosing time. _5. Off campus vendors. must be approved by and submit may be obtained in the Office 4) The_, recreation room is proof of insurance to the Office of Student Activities ar at the avallable on a first co:m.e-frrst o( Stude:pt Activities befme Information Booth. The served basis. Groups promoting sales. bulletin board across from the organiz:ing tournaments may 6. The game roo~ #301, is maitroom is. available for reserv~ dmes in the Student . available for student use. posting tides. Activities Office. • . Equipment for the pool table is Recreation Room: Conference rooms in the . available free of charge atthe · · 1) Pool table equipment is - College Center are open. durin~ Informati.(;)n Booth with 2 available to students and staff · the day for meeting!! and IPage 3 Minerva Lecturer Introduces New Mask~Making Concept Continued from page 1 Sherman involved her entire Vermont community in her mask-making activities. Her goal was to unite the . · community and she was extremely successful. Ms. Sherman was able to bring together the various social forms of identification, {Jse of free of charge at the • progr~ms that have beell information booth,. College • reserved through the Central i Center first floor. Equipment Scheduling Office x6098. 1 · be strictly enforced · classes and age groups of her small town, numbered around 500. . . RECREATION ROOM ... COLLEGE· CENTER 301 may be borrowed for use in the In Qrder to check the game room by leaving 2 forms · availability -of rooms. you ma~ of identificatin at the · consult the master schedule at Building Hours.: 7:00am-1:00am 10:00 am-. 1:00 am 8:30 am-12:30 am 12:30pm-: 12:30 am Mon.-Fri. Sat. -Sun. Mon.-Fri. ' . , Maggie Sherman also has a . · bright future ahead of her. She has received a community arts grant from the city of Boston, information booth. the information booth or in the· • Recreation Room: Sat.-Sl,Ul. 2) There is a one-hour time College ·Center office, or call limit on the pool table. Please · the·Central Scheduling Office. return equipment at the end of If tJtere ate any questions• the hour to the information · concetning these policies, booth. ID transfers are not . patrons are urged to contact and will be casting the faces of the homeless in that area. Her Football equipment available: 12:00 pm-12:00 am Mon.-Sun. accepted Ms. 1 erri Clark, Director ()f •. 1. Groups needing ttbles for . the pool table is limited t() one the promotion ·of campus . hour. 3) Equipment cannot be the College Center at extension signed out within 112 hour of 6129. ~----~----------------------------------~----~------------------------ Prominent Novelist to Visit Union Next Week activities (i.e.. Bloodmobile . 7. The posting policy has sign-ups, raffle -ticket sales, . been developed by the Office of voting campaigns, etc.) should . The College Center to provide request necessary equipment in • a measure of safety for Union advance from the Office of • students, provide a more The College Center. Groups · helpful system of advertising Continued from page 1 ~e responsible for returning and informing, utilize available the academic and non-academic tables/ch.airs to the designated · posting space. worlds, between campus and · · Professor Hathaway Tuesday, Oct. 11th: 4, \Writing as a Career\ Career Development Center, Joanne . Tobiessen area. ~) Flyers/Posters should be community. Distinguished 2. We thank you for not hung on bulletin boards. They Fellows who have visited smoking in the buildblg. . · are not allowed to be hung on Union during the past few 3. N~ \pets bicycles, or · walls. doors, windows, pfllars years include Jacqueline Wednesday, Oct. 12th: 10:15-11:2(), \Introduction t<J Arts,\ in ARTS 215, Professors Robbins and Wilson alcohol may be brought into or other locations. Trescott, .reporter for the The College Center. A bike · b) All signs mus·t be Washi11gton Post, Nora Sayre, -. rack is located at the rnai11 approved at the Information , · nationally known writer and entrance for ypur convenience. Booth: S~gns ~ithout. proper fil~ critic, and Dick Clark, 1 , 4. Food, beverage, and/or authonz;ation Wl~be remov~d~ fonner Senator from Iowa and Thu.rsday, Oct. 13th: 4, Talk ·on James Baldwin and Raymond Carver, \The Vanishing Guild,\ HU Lounge smoking are ·not permitted in c) Forms for requestmg senior fellow at The Aspen ·the Auditorium. Institute. CDC NEWS Internships For ,more Information on the following lntarnshlpi, ·atO'p by the·'. . CDC. . • The DevelopmentOillce.at Union College now has.openings for students interestedilnan internship. The position entails speaking to.aJumni about Union for contributions to the college, Applications are at lamont House, CDC, and the informationbooth.inthe-College Centf:ir. Paid position. Theatre for a NewAudience, located in NYC, is looking for interns to fill a variety of positions with the theatre. Our Town TV ,locatedin Saratoga Springs, is offering fall internships for hands-on television experience. Must have access to a ear. . ' WABC TV offers internships to students interested in a . career in communication. The program will give students an excellent introducdCln to the functioning of a TV facility and awhands-on• experiel1ce in his/her field of specialization. located ii1 NYC. New York State Energy•Office is seeking to hire two student interns to work in the Division of Conservation's Program -Evaluation Unit. Graduate students or upper-level under- graduates preferred to start by September. Paid position. NV-Scan is seekingindi\liduals to fill the internship positions . for the Television Production Internship Program. American Red Cross has a variety of internship positions·open at their national heatfqtlarters in Washington, D.C. Un<!er- graduates and gradtr.~tes are encourag!ild to apply. Makovsky &·company, a NYC public relation finn is seeking. fall interns to work side-by-side with account executi~s per- forming public relation duties. Shearson lehman Hutton .is seeking an individual In Economies or Computer Science as.a Sales and Marketing Assistant. Non- paid position. , aeckman Associates, located in Albany, is seeking interns to . work in the field of public relations. Excellent written and velbal communication skills are necessary. Northwestern Mutuai Life Is seeking interns, who are ejther juniors or seniors, to work in financial planning/insurance sales positions. Located in Poughkeepsie, NY. Capital District Ad Club, located in Albany, is seeking ]Linlors or seniors for internship positions in the field of communica- tions. Internships eKist In-advertising, public relations,.' graphic arts, jQUmalism, and marketing. Capital Region ma~azine is offering two fall in!etnships in its editorial departrilent. A knowledg~ of the arts 1s helpful. American SymphOOlfOrChestr:a league, service organization for the nation's symphony orchestr!l!l, is seeking. applicants fQr the 1989-90 OrchestraManagement Fellowship Program. N.Y. State Senate Ia Interested in students wa:ndng to Q!Jin experience in the legislative process. Application deadline: November 2, 1988. DEpartment of Army,located in Watervliet, has a variety of • work assignments oorrently available for students majoring m Chemistry, Computer Science, Engineering and Physics. The following is the schedule for Nicholas Delbanco during his stay at Union: Monday, Oct. lOth: lO:lS- 11:20, \Introduction to Literary Forms,\ in ·psy 113-, Friday, Oct. 14th: 10:15- 11:20, \The Writer and the Making of A Short Story\ for \Introduction to Literary Forms,\ HU 114, Professor Marten THANKS, UNION COLLEGE STUDENTS, FOR CARING The Self-Contained Unit which Is a customized bus speciUcaii.Y designed to serve as a \bloodmobile\ will be parked In front of the College Center from 10:30 am to 5 pm each day on TODAV-Thurs. , Oct. 6; and Fri., Oct. 7, 1988. The'foHowing fraternities and sorority will be sponsors: Phi -Gamma Delta on Wednesday, October 5,1988. For appointment contact: George &teffian Tel. 372·0172. Goal: 65 Units Delta Gamma on Thursday, October 6, 1988. For appointment contact: Anne Gould Tel. 386,-4348. Goal: 65 Units Alpha Epsilon PI on Friday, October 7, 1988. For appointment contaci: 'David Kohl Tel. 386-4209. Goal: 65 .Linits. Blood has been crucially low this summer and we are hoping to collect the needed blood this faii1Q adequately supply the area hospitals. Please he.lp by signing up. It only takes 1an hour to go through the entire process. In order to make the bloodmobiles run as smoothly as I possible. please sign up ahead of time with the app~opriate contact people. There will be a short meeting· on WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 12 IN SOCIAL SCIENCES 112 AT 7:15 for anyone ·interested in serving oi1 the Board of ·Directors of the Union C<>llege Investment ·Club, which manages a portf<>lio of$100,000. . . ·Anyone who has taken <>r is taking :Economics 34 (Financial Analysis) or .. ·Economics 36 (Financial Markets) may ·apply f<>r meiil;bership on the Board, which :currently has ·twelve vacancies due to. :graduation. If you are in-terested in ·membership on the Board but will be unable :to attend the meeting, please contact either ·Prof. Lewis (x6078) or Prof. Phaup (:x6080). ! ' - •• J. Minerva Lecturer Maggie Sherman goal is to breakdown · the barriers that people have . concerning the homeless. Ms. Sherman is also planning a project working . • with the alcoholic and drug abuse victims in Vermont. She hopes to capture the fear of these individuals in her masks, thereby making their problems a reality for all of society to see. Maggie Sherman was also the initiator of the \Want to Get Plastered\ experience at Union last week. The results will be exhibited at the College Center during October and November. The \Faces off at Union\ exhibit will then be displayed for three months at the Albany Institute of History andAA. S.P.A.A. '\••k•: B.l.A.S. Dean Underwood The Sociology Department The Psychology Department The Arts Department Sister Joan of the Campus Ministry Laurel and the Christian Fellowship The Political Science Department The Philosophy Department The Physics Department Phi Beta Kappa Becky Thayer Food Service Mrs. Marra and Jerri Clark The Audience For your cooperation and support in making American Pictures a successful presentation

Page 4- Dry Rush Function. Volleyball & Barbeque Friday, October 7th 6:00 Rain date Saturday October 8th· 6:00 Kappa Sig:ma Formal Dry Rush Events On Friday, Oct. 7th at 6:00 pm you are cordially invited to a Spaghetti Dinner at the Kappa Sigma Chaplet House. Dinner will feature HOMEMADE .SPAGHETTI SAUCE On Thursday, Oct. 13th at 6:00pm. you are cordially invited to a Night in· Tiajuana at the . KappaSigmaChapter House. TherewiUbe Tacos and Movies. Come and enjoy. DRV.RUSH EVENTS Friday, October 7 PHI .SIGMA KAP:PA 6:30 pm A N1ght at Saratoga Race Track (meet at the House . between 6:30 and 7:00pm Back by 1 o :30 pm) Thursday, October 6 SJGMA CHI · 7:30 pm Comedian night Live comedian Wings Pizza and Soda Thursday, October 6 THETA DELTA CHI· 6:30pm Semi-formal steak dinner CONCORD18NSIS October 6, 1988 10 %off To Students & Faculty .NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE·· Expert Auto Repair - 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • Goodyear • Kelly Springfi~td \ , 1501 Balltown Rd. ScheRectady, NY 12309 374-9751 . o/isage :!{air ancC'Iannjng Stuaio 557 Nott St. 374·0351 Specials of the Month: all perms are $lo~oo off . . . . nail .tips with acrylic are $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off , . ask.jor • Joann •13et/i •CJene ALL YEAR • Djnn .Haircuts-are $5~oo off Body Wraps are $10~00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 can be shared waxing is· also available W . ·H· y·. ·N· .o· 'T'.· · · ....... _ . . . ·I' . ·• Show us what y·eu've: got· ••• ' · · ·tnd Annuai··Campus.,Wide· 'J,RLEN'I ·SHOW prizes! ·celebrity iudgesl . Lip sync! Dance! Drama! Music! Go:medy! · Anything y·ou do that's amusing! . · · Pick up rules and additional entry forms · at information bo.oth in the College Center and return to box 1652. Sponsored by the Mountebanks. Show Date:.Wed., Oct~ 19th. Entrr DeacQine: Sat~, Oct. 15 .. ENTRY FORM~ RETURN TO QOX 1652 . - NAME----~------------------~ PHONE:------------...---.\\'\':\'-\.... NAME OF ACT:---------..:..-\-- BOX#:-----------.----------------.....-.-.- . BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ACT:_. ------------ ''I dotlt want a lot of hype. !just want Something r can count on.'~ \ .. \' Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you_ really want is dependable, bighqualityservice. That's just what you'll get wh~n you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than you think. You can expect low · · . long distance, rates, 24-hour ·operator assistance, clear · connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. · And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. · That's the genims of the .AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. When it's time to . choose, forget the gimmicks add make the intelligent · · choice-AT&T. · If youtllike to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&TCard, call us at 1 800 222·0300. ATa.T The right choice~

. I CONCORDIENSIS Octo11u· 6, 1988 Pag~ 5 FEATURES Talk of the Town Concordiensis recently asked: ''What do you think . Photo~ and lnt~rviews by Krls Lynch , the biggest differen:ce betwe.~n fall & Spring term is?\ \Probably about 5 Qr 6 beers a night.\ · \About 1S.pOund$.\ Jan l~e Altieri '91. Rob Vlock '91 \The thickness of the beer goggles.\ Steve Sav~d '89 \Fall term is k:nowing you need \The weather.\ to find a job. an<! spring term is Maurice Kauff '90 knowing you. still' don't haYe one.\ 1Ca111 Nyhus '89 From Challenger to Discovery to Success Professor Scaife's experiment which has just returned from . Discovery. Job Applicants May Face Drug Tests· By AMY BABOFF For college graduates entering the corporate world, mandatory drug testing is part of the application process. Obtaining a high-paying, prestigious. job ftrst requires a resume, an interview and a drug test. An increasing number of the nation's largest companies are testing job applicants. A temporary halt if not a ·Complete stop to drug use is in order-- now! Drugs are one of the nation's biggest problems. We live in a drug-oriented society. This we know already. But, do we really understand the implications of certain drug use on our future, our careers, our emotional 'and financial well-being?· Consequently, there have been few refusals to take the tests. Perhaps, we are too consCious of being successful to take a personal stand. Students have become both paranoid and curious. They have been calling abuse hotlines and hospitals to ask how long ·certain dru:gs remain in the system. The answers depend on body weight and the degree of use. And, we're not talking about coffee, cola, tea, cigarettes, cold capsules or a beer or two. Drug testing is lookng for any sign of psychoactive drug use such as marijuana or cocaine. Several signs and symptoms associated with drug use and abuse are quite apparent. They will not make a job applicant feel or look good.· These include: loss of interest and of . long-term memory, sbortened attention, unexplained behavioral changes, .fltJ.ctuations in body weight, a low tolerance for illness, red, glassy eyes with dilated pupils, and a general sense of weariness. So what can we do now? Be AWARE. Seniors, students, anyone who is looking for a job or internship-- be C()ncemed as to the implications, of drug use. A temporary halt in drug use will be to your advantage .. A permanent stop to drug use is the best solution. By TOM SARTINI Within this past week, Professor Charles W.J. Scaife 9f the chemistry department received fram NASA .the apparatus of his recent experiment which occwed on the Space Shuttle Discovery on its latest voyage. The purpose of the experiment was to grow l~Uger and purer lead iodized crystals by bringing together a lead solution· and ' an iodized solution to diffuse togetller and meet at a superpermeable membrane. The experiment took place in a four chamber plexiglass tube· approximately one foot long and three inches in diameter. The tube was constructed to stand 11p to material shock and cold, pressure or vacuum. The reaction of mixing tile two aqueous solutions witlt the membrane to form the crystals only occured when crew member Pinky N~lson rnartually opened the valves of the chambers using the knobs at each end of the tube. He also made observations as well as videotaping the reacti()ll for twenty minutes. , Visual observation notes that yellow crystals have been formed on the membrane however testing and research- have not yet begun. Pr()fessor Scaife plans to repeat the same experiment here on earth and then note the diffetences between the crystals fomed in atmospheres of earth gravity YOU ARE CORDIALLY INVITED TO ABRAMS and ANDERSON lmprov Comedy £?u~ . College Center Aud1tonum · Friday L October 7 9:00pm PRECEEDED BY ICE CREAM SOCIAL 8:00 prn Sponsored by Social Alternatives Commiffee . ·- . and zero· gravity. The properties of crystals grown in microgravity YVill be compared with these ofcrystals grown in the laboratory en earth. The size, shape, ooolor~ structure, and purity will be studied. Any defects win ile especially probed. Not all research will be done at Unio11 nut by a research team in tile chemistry department at the U11iversity of . Connecticut, Storrs due to the avail~bility of fi11e technical and experimernt4tl research machinery. Practic~ use of such large, pure crystals will occur in the presence of X-r11y md gamma- ray radiation. Tltese crystals may be used t<> produce more sensitive inte11sifying screens that surround X-ray or gamma- ray ftlms to ali()W for higher resolution in X-r:ay and gamma ray detection. WlJat this means is that smaller d()ses of X-rays will be transmitted to obtain equal quality piotllfes of teeth and bone of :patients in diagnostic ~situawons. The idea for tile experiment originated fro111 Richard Cavoli while still in ltigh school before b e<:orning an undergraduate at Union. Richard entere!l a NASA sponsored C()mpetition approximately !1~-ven years ago. His high school science teacher announced that t\'enty projects would be selected tG fly on the space shuttle. E5' tlte time his idea of crystaJ ;growth in microgravity wa:s accepted by NASA, Richard was preparing to enter Uni()n. At Union Richard pr()ceeded with voluntary help ti'()m. Professor Scaife as his fa()nlty advisor. Together they W()Iked on the project until its initial launch on the Challenger in 1986. However the Challenger disaster po Stj)oned the experiment until111e recent Disc()veay voyage. Five tubes''\Ver.e ]>roduced for experimentati()n each time. One was for HA.SA testing, one for the ew ,experiment, and three f()l\ tbe space experiment. The two experiments as a whole were basically the same except for minor differences. One was that fiber washers used initially were no longer availabale for the second attempt. The tubes were also tempered a bit more the second time requiring custom machinery. The first set of tubes had been machined identically and the pieces involved were interchangable. Professor Scaife noted that the cost of the materials ~as not so bad but that the time in hours of machining is where much of the cost lay. It took approximately 450 hours for machining and construction. The total cost of the experiment involved with the Discovery was about $11,000, $3,000 less than that of the Challenger. Professor Scaife found other ways of obtaining the same product at less cost. Cavoli and Scaife, with help from NASA, were unable to find an industrial sponsor so they approached Dean Alan Nelson and Vice President of Academic Affairs Thomas D'Andrea for fitiancial support from Union College. The college was enthusiastic about the idea and support was negotiated. Even after the Challenger explosion, the college again supported the project. Professor Scaife had taken up the experimentation on his own since Richard Cavoli graduated from Union and is presently a medical student at SUNY Buffalo. Scaife received approval to continue even though the projects were to be done by students. He had gone to Florida and Texas for consultation and to review the experiment with the flight crew. If crystals grown in microgravity prove to be larger and purer with fewer defects, then this evidence can be presented to producers of X-ray and gamma-ray intensifying screens. HOMECOMING WEEKEND Octw.14-16

Page 6 FEATURES Maskmaking: An Experience in Self-Discovery By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor This past Thursday, Friday and Saturday, Union College \Got plasteted.\ An enthusiastic lucky group of students, faculty and family members experienced the thrill of reproducing their own faces and then examining themselves as they never have before, three dimensionally. Although we are able to view our own reflections two dimensionally in the mirror that third dimension, which only others can perceive alters our true images. Through the mask-making process we were able to study our faces from afar and discover new bits and pieces of ourselves. The masks serve as a unique way in which to express ourselves and to reflect upon who we have created. Maggie Sherman, a visual artist who led .the three workshops explained that .the masks are more than physical representations of our facial constructs, they also serve as emotional outlets. The masks give us the freedom to change our .true emotions and create a new self image or to capture our present feelings· and state of mind. The final stage of the process is actually where the creative expressionism comes into play. After the mask-making procedure is f'mished it is on to decorating and designing the \You\ you want the world to see. . There were three long tables filled with various art supplies; feathers, paints, sequins, fabrics, glitter, fJ.lr scraps, buttons, string and more. The job of selecting just the right materials foF our precious faces was not an easy one. I had already decided what I wanted my finished face to look like, still I felt tlle need to take a step back from the ciecorating showcase and absorb an the possibilities. I followed my original decision, Purple, purely, :simply, Purple. Nothing fancy, complex, or intricate, just a simple coat of purple paint. I chose purple not because I was in a \putple mood,\ for what exactly is a purple mood, or bee a us~ purple is my favorite color, it's not, but because pu.rple is energetic, strong and alive. As corny as it may sound I qften wonder what it would be like if the world was filled with brightly colored faces, more interesting, more lively perhaps? The sense of sight is dominant in decorati-ng but during the actual mask-malting process olu other senses took the stage. Touch immediately Homecoming By RACHEL LEVINE Sewer pipes are being fixed, ditches are being repaired, and someone is trying to grow grass in two weeks where once were ugly piles of dirt. Union College is getting a face lift· a.nd the campus will definitely look better without the bulldozers and orange fences. Undergraduates, this is not just for you .•. Homecoming Week- end will soon be here. Starting on Friday, October 14 and continuing through Sunday, October 16, the alumni will return to do honor to their alma mater. The annual tradition of Homecoming is important to maintain the spirit and pride of Union. How could anyone not feel proud to be a part of this campus with all of the activities that are planned? There is a great investment of time and careful planning in scheduling of all the events. This excitement comes from the several students who are credited for running Homecoming. This student network is important in maintaining the bond between present .students and alumni. Leading th.e Homecoming Committee, and making the whole weekend possible, is Laura Cassidy . and Maria Kapogiannis. Also, just to show the powerful positions of the involved students is Kristen Santos, Promotional Day Chairperson, and Beth Deaner, Parade Chairperson. Without their commitment and time some of the great activities scheduled would not be taking place. The planning has been going on since Spring term. There are both academic and social activities planned. All of the departments will be hosting presentations and receptions, that will be taking place Saturday and Sunday. Some of the most exciting times of Homecoming, other than the parade and football garne, will be taking place at night. If laughter is in store for you on Friday, go see the comedian who will be performing in Memorial Chapel. Or, should you want to twist Saturday night away to the music of The Joneses and Charlie T. and the Grads, go to the Homecoming Dance in the Upperclassmen's Dining .Room. ln addition to the cash bar and great music, door prizes will be give11 away, including a weekend at Stowe. It is going to be quite a weekend at Union College,. so if you have already made other plans--Cancel them and stay on campus! grabbed me as the first step of the ·process began, the application .of a thick layer of vaseline \Which acted as a lubricant when it came time to remove t!te hardened plaster gauze ~elL The vaseline was. thoroughly massaged over our skin by <Jur mask making partners. rhe rhythm of gentle fingers upon my face felt calming and relaxing. The fe 1 eling continued as strips of plastered gauze were lain across my forehead, cheeks, nose, lips, and c:hin and massaged to 1 ~ fit the contours of my face. Q ~ Our faces are exposed to the w harshness of the environment ~ all day and all night long and a a! . :> protective covering every now n. and then can be very · ~ revitalizing. ro tt Though I must admit that :::> when it came time to lift the 8 mask off, I did encounter a ~ little discomfort but it was ~ definitely well worth the overall experience and finished product had said would happen, being that my eyes, which we rely so heavily upon, were forced to rest. So, here 1 l~y, face engulfed in a plaster cast similar to the ~ ones doctors use to repair broken bones, just waiting for my shell to dry. The wet, sticky sensation actually felt soothing and seemed to absorb the tension in my whole body. My sense <>f smell and hearing became m<>re acute as Maggie motherly care. Hopefully, you have become interested and curious enough to see the finished masks for yourselves, and you can! They will be on display on campus from October 11 to November 23. The exhibit will reappear this summer for three months at the Rice Gcillery of the the Albany Institute of History and Art. ~ CONTEST . iie:::::::::::::oo::::::::::3J are you an artist? Do you like to play. with crayons? Would you like your artwork to be on the backs (and fro!lts too) of college students? then oo=::::::::::::m:::::::::::a DEsiGN 'IHE NEW WRUC I-SH-IRII ~:::::::::~::::::::::~ .. -Send entries to Karen Schaefer, Box 1896. - Must be tece.ived by Octo be£ 1 0, 1 988. T·shirt designs should include the station's call lette.rs .and frequency (WRUC 89.7 FM)., The winning artist will receive gift certificates to., area restaurants and lots of vinyl. (Aion·g whh campus-wide fame.) Most importantly,. there is a sense of trust and confidence between mask maker and maskee. Although not one of the five senses, they are just as important. My partner fulfilled her role m~gnificently and even added an extra touch of !Mai{ing Jlladresses for :Fa{{1988 CHINA Foreign Students Donnitory Na~ing Teachers University 122 Ninghai Road Na~ing - ENGLAND University of Bath Study Abroad Office School of Humanities and Social Sciences Claverton Down Bath BA 7AY · FRANCE Pierre Le Calvez \Trelout\ - 35580 - GUICHEN JAPAN Kansai Gaidai ITALY Eurocentro Firenze Piazza Santo Spirito. 9 I-50125 FIRENZE 16- 1 Kitakatahoko-cho Hirakata City Osaka (573) YORK EXCHANGE Overseas Students' Programmes The College of Ripon and York St. John Lord Mayor's Walk YorkY03 7EX

f : CONCORDIENMS October 6, 1988 Page 7 . ' .: . .-;;-'. ',, .: -~ FEATURES· . .I . Marine Studies Term Abroad .. . . .... - - By PROF. ILENE KAPLAN . The Marine ·realm (jovers seventy percent of the Earth's surface. It is the place. of life's origin and continues t() shape much of the world's environment. The di.verse resources of the oceans are crucial ta the well being ·Of most nations and have pl-ayed a major role in the shaping of societies and the organization . of _social structure. In addition to the cultural impact, oceans have also served and s·timulated the aesthetic elements of our natures--they are the provin~e of poets, artists artd mu.sicians · and others seeking inspiration. The Marine Studies Program w~U be ~ intensive one lasting for a period of eight weeks. It will begin in St. Qeorges .•. · Bermuda wher~ course · participants Will Study marine policy, island, living and island ecology. The open se14 coral' reefs, mangro,ve forest and the societal and technical resp<>nse of the .human coJWD.unity to tliese resources wiH be examined. The readily accessible .snorkeling areas will p:rovide excellent ways to . pbservemarine-species in their ·naturafhabitat. Students' will alSo begin their s~11dy of community life and lifestyles of fishermen. While in· Bermuda! they will be using the facilities of the E~Hf!.uda Biological · Station .in St. CJeorges. · Following the experience in Bermuda, the group win fly to New England. and begin their .comparison of sub-tropi¢al and temperate enyironmenp. The emergence of the large regional fishin:g communities,' tidal processes, and the social, biological and technalogical adaptations to the marine environment will be given special attention. · The Cape Spring 1989 Cod region will form the group's georgraphica1 focus. While in this area, the f~cilities of the internationally respected Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution and Marine Biological Laboratory will be used. · · While in the New England and Cape Cod area, the group will participate iii' a schooner expedition on a· tall ship. The schooner will provide berths, food; and a research base for the coutse participants. Students will be mvolved in all phases of the expedition including learning .~he fundamentals of oceanography and hands~on marine research. Navigation, sailing, and visits to the islands and coastal , fishing communities will also be importapt components. Possible collm1unities to be visited include Martha's Vineyard, Nantucket, ProvinGetown, New Bedford, Mas~chusetts and Portsmouth, New llampshire. The group will them )oumey to Appledore Island, the site of the Shoals Marine Laboratory, Gulf of Maine,. jointly operated by Cornell University and University of New Hampshire. The ecology of colder waters . ana· .the rocky intertidal zorle will provide fascinating points of comparison to previous sites. Technological adaptation and sU:rvival on an isolated island is alsQ emphasized. In .addition, the histery of Shoals with its rich lit~rature and intellectual heritage. is especially supportive of the poetic, literary, and ·historical elements · of the program. · Course of study Soc 58: Marine Policy and the Maritime Environment (B); an examination of social life in maritime communities and the shaping of national and / Rose, encompassed by fog, Marine Studies. . ' . international marine policies. Faculty: Dr. Ilene Kaplan · Bio.56: Coastal Biology (C); study of the diversity and adaptations of marine org.an+sm s in · their environemnt, with emphasis on subtropical ane1 temperate communities. Faculty: Dr. Barbara Boyer LL55: Images of the Sea (F); an examination of the development · of marine technology and concomitant human values. Faculty: Dr. · Ilene Kaplan, Dr. Barbara Boyer, Dr. Paul Weiss, and Dr. John Morris. Marine Studies Program Director: Dr. ilene Kaplan. Tentative Calendar 1989 Apri17 to May l...,Bennuda May 1 to May 9 .... Cape Cod May 9 to May 18 .... Sehooner expedition in New England May 18 to June l .... Appledore Island Prerequisites 2.0 average for the previous term; 2.3 cumulative average; one sociology or biology course, and permission of the instructors. Expenses Tlte inclusive fee is the approlcimate cost of a term on the Union College campus and covers tuition, board, room and group excursions. It does not cover personal expenses, or airfare. Travel to Bermuda. and . Bermuda to Woods Hole on ::.:ape Cod and from Portsmouth, New Hampshire home is the responsibility of the student. (Students will be brougltt from Appledore Island to Portsmouth, New Hampshire at the end of the term.) All scholarships apply to t.he program with the exception of work study. Ollie and Morris Dine Out By STEVEN COLE, BRETT MALOFSKY This week Ollie and Morris both ate well. Feeling like we cheated both our public as well as ourselves last week we chose to pull out all the stops. \Sushi anyone,\ said a hungry ' Mortis and off · we went. Beading east on Route seven for twenty minutes led us to The Ginza, just past Latham Circle. The atmosphere was airy with a lot of light wood and rice paper walls. and a prominently placed sushi bar. Suitingly Japanese we thought We were seated at a table immediately; (which is nice on a Friday night.) However~ once seated the wait was rather long &;:fore a waitress took our order. But once the order was placed the food was promptly served. For the appettzer we opted for the Ternpura Shrimp and Vegetables $4.95. This was excellent. The shrimp, broccoli, eggplant, and carrot were light, crispy and virtually oil free fo:r a deep fried ,!oo<l. The accompanying sauce seemed to be a light soy sauce derivation, and went well. Next, included in the price of_ t11e entree. was soup followed · by salad. The so11p~ a soy bean' consume, was . broth-like in nature, but had a slightly ftlller body. The flavor was simple and light with few describable parallels. We both enjoyed it . for starters. Next, we were served an iceberg salad with a few shavings of purple cabbage and a wonderful seasame oil dressing. This dressing turned the cool. crisp leaves into something special. (In fact, Ollie vowed to purchase a bottle next chance he got.) Now onto the main event. We collectively bad three main courses, (of course solely for the reader's benefit and·not o:ur: own, gluttqny). ~orri~ ordered the regular Sushi for $11..95 which included .raw samples of fluke, shrimp, tuna. tekka, kappa, and octopus served on a· slab. of rice or rolled with seaweed. Also, this includetl what we believe to be salmon roe. All was extremely fresh which is, .of course, necessary with raw seafood. The preparation was ord~rly and plen~iful. Ollie opted for a cooked main course and was well rewarded. His . Salmon Teriyaki, for $12.95, was basted in a succulent. sweet and tangy sauce that left the outside of the salmon .steak a bit crispy while the middle was moist. Served along with it were blanched carrots, broccoli spears and a serving of noodles. 'The noodles were unnecessary with all of the rice on the table but went well as they slid into the teriyaki sauce. The portion was adequate, and Ollie had nothing but praise. Not believing in the proverb \too much of a good thing is bad\ we shared an order of Tekkamaki for $11.95. This is sushi, consisting of tuna rolled in seaweed and rice. On the side was a green paste, \wasabi\, which can accurately be described as fire .. Morris, who has eaten many jalapeno peppers right off the plant was gagging. a little after sampling this. An educated guess would have to be horseradish product This was also served with Morris' Sushi. It is mentioned here for a very important teason. Apparently some of this death spice was already rolled into some of the tuna, unknown to us. This caught us off guard, but was very. enjoyable after the first taste. A friendly piece of advice from Morris and Ollie: mix a little of the wasabi into_the soy sauce and mix well. This is an excellent compliment to dip yow raw fish into. In summary, we both enjoyed the Sushi, but Ollie was ecstatic about the Salmon Teriyaki and recommends it highly. The service was overall moderate and progressively got bette1 as the feast continued. Our water glasses were kept full throughout the meal. The food was very good, and for food of this nature the pricing seemed more than acceptable. So. if you're into Japanese cuisi11e, or just like new flavors. we highly recommend TheGinza. Both, Ollie and Morris welcome your suggestions of futUJe. eateries, and wish you wen.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSlS O~tobe.r 6,. 1988 ------ ------· sportswear . .. of.ASl-llON AlrJLE1lC CLOTrllNS oSTUDENT DlSCOUNTS aBACK TO SCHOOL l>l.EAt:>QUJ.\RTERS a LOW. LOW PP.lCES *10% off on any· merchandise to ALl Students · A· E R 0 with your meal. Moussy and Warteck non-Alcoholic BEER. Only at the ~~tfis /(g[{ar\ B I .... C' WEA.R Marine Studies Term Abroad Spring Term Bermuda Cape Cod Schooner Expeditfon Gulf of Maine Information MTG - Tues. Oct. ll 7:30PM s.s. 012 Applications Available in Tenns Abroad Office or Contact: Profs. Kaplan, B. Boyer or P. Weiss Applications are due iii Terms Abroad · Office by Wed., Oct. 19 THE.NEW ROC & ROLL I \ DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visi:t us at the college· center-. ·oelivery is free with a p·urchase of $5.00 or ove.r, or ~a smal:l p~izza. CALL 370-6060 . . FIND ()IJT MORE ABOUT THE W:rLLIAJo!S\M)'S'l'J:C PROGRAM! PLEASE JOIN US FOR A SLIDE SHOK TUESDAY, i1 OCTOBER, 7 PM ROOM 203 - COLLEGE CENTER OR SEE .ASSOClATE DEAN OF UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMs j;lOO SCIENCE AliD ENGINEERiNG CE!ITmt . . ·--- _OO>,noma.uo ' o' -~·-y\~·· '\;'·-:~·<~·%; '' ' ' ., . :;: AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIE·s Accrediteal>y D Ecology 0 American Studies WILL1AMS COLLEGE D Economics 0 Public Policy . Taught at D Biology 0 Oceanography MYSTIC SEAPORT 0 History 0 Off·Shore . MUSEUM· 0 Literature Research i ; The Williams-Mystic Program··offers you a chal- lenging opportunity to focus or:te semester of your studies on oilr relationship With the sea. While living in cooperative houses at Mystic Seaport M1.1seum, you takdow Wtlii:ams College courses in history, literature, oceru:1ography or marine ecology, and marine policy. You can also develop new maritime skills; such as boat build- ing, sailing, or celestial navigation, and spend 1 ' two weeks offshore on a marine vessel. The in- . comparable facilities of the Museum, Mystic's varied m~ine habitat, and the .companionship of fellow students interested in the sea provide a;n exceptional setting Jor maritime studies. • I ~ WILLIAJ\\S•MYSTIC.P:ROGRAM • MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM, INC. • MYSTIC, CONNECTICUT 06355 • (2.03) 572-0711 (!;xt. 359 l GET GOING ·A.ND RESERVE SEATING FOR DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT Dinner at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant, Saturday; Oct. 15, ·1988. -- Limited seating available at.7:30 p.m. Dinner.fe~tures, . steak, prime rlb and seafood. . · $12.50 per :pers-on or ONE PUNeCH on your meal card. Reserve your place N·OW! Call #6060to ~mak.e.your reservation.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS October 6, 1988 ---= ---' sporzsweal' . :lFASHlOi\l ATHLETlC: CLOTI-'U'f'JG :JSTUDENT DISCOUNTS :>BACK TO SCHOOL H EADQlJARTERS :>LOW, LOW PRICES , • 0 1 \ off on any . A merchandise to ALL Students E 833 McClellan St. R Schenectady, :'><Y '12308 0 372-4932 f1----'1afi/(/ with your meaL Moussy and Warteck non- Alcoholic BEER. Only at the '1\gtfts kg_[[ar\ B Marine Studies Term Abroad Spring Term Bermuda Cape Cod Schooner Expedition Gulf of Maine Information MTG - Tues. Oct. 11 7:30PM s.s. 012 Applications Available in Terms Abroad Office or Contact: Profs. Kaplan, B. Boyer or P. Weiss Applications are due in Terms Abroad Office by Wed., Oct. 19 THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come vi:s.it us at the college center. Delivery is free with a purchase of $5.00 or over, or a small pi.zza .. CALL 370-6060· FIND OUT MORE ABOUT 'l'HE WILLIAMS-MYSTIC PROGRAM! PLEASE JOIN US FOR A SLIDE SHOW TUESDAY, 11 OCTOBER, 7 PM ROOM 203 - COLLEGE CENTER OR SEE ASSOCIATE DBAN OF UNDERGIIADUAT& PROGRAMS 5100 SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING CENTER AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES Accredited by 0 Ecology 0 American Studies WILLIAMS COLLEGE 0 Economics 0 Public Policy Taught at 0 Biology 0 Oceanography · MYSTIC SEAPORT 0 History 0 Off-Shore MUSEUM U Literature Research Fall or Sp:rmg Semester The Williams-Mystic Program offers you a chal- lenging opportunity to focus one semester of your studies on ()Ur relationship with the sea. While living in cooperative houses at Mystic Se:11port M usemn, yDu take four Williams College courses in history, literature, oceanography or marine ecology, and marine policy. You can also develop new mru:itime skills, such as boat build· ing, salling, or celestial navigation, and spend two weeks offshore on a marine vessel. The in- comparable facilities of the Museum, Mystic's varied marine habitat, and the companionship of fellow students interested in the sea provide an exceptional setting for maritime studies. WILLIAMS·MYSTIC PROGRAM • MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM, INC. • MYSTIC, CONNECTICUT 06355 • (203) 572-0711 Ext. 359 GET GOING AND RESERVE SEATING FOR DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT Dinner at the Dutch HoUow Restaurant, Saturday, Oct. 15, 1988. Limited seating available at 7:30pm. Dinner features· steak, prime rib and: seafood. $12.5~0 per person or ONE PUNCH on your meal card. Reserve your place NOW! Call #6060 to make your reservation. l i I ,, ' ! I .I i ,, .. .~ ~

~--- ~-..--·- ·- -.--.- GERMAN MOVIE . \NORDSEE IST MORDSEE'' Monqay, Oct. 10 In·c·c Room 406 at7:30 PM CONCOJ.l.DlENSfS October 6, }988 Page 9 INTE-RNATIONAL FEATURES Portrait· of the Wee,k: Osamu Ta.kagi By NICOLAS BOCH Have you ever windsurfed in Japan? If not, you might seriou.sly consider it. According to Osamu Takagi, it is sjmply great, Of course, he would love to windsurf whe:rever there are waves to take off. Actually, it is his dedication' to· this sport that caused him to dream about the United States. All the magazines· he was reading about windsuding showed. pictures of Hawaii or Califomia. lt does not always take much for someone to learn a foreign language. A friend, a dream or a passion associated to that country can be enough. In Osamu's case, windsurfing was the starting point of his admiration of America. As well, he happened to know the coach of the Japanese Olympic windsurfing team. One day, Osamu asked him what he · needed to be 011 the team; the coach· answered by saying, \Learn English;'• Osamu Takagi is an exchange sru.dent from Kansai- Gaidai University in Osaka. LAN·GUAGE TABLES r FRENCH-. Monday 12:45-1:45 SPANISH- Tuesday 11:45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND G~RMAN-- Wedne.sday 12:4-5-. 1 :45 ITALIAN- Thursday 11:45--12:45 JAPANESE~onday 12:45---1 :45 - All Language Tables will be in the College Cente.r._ · Upperclassmenis Dil'iling Hall. Anyone not on the meal plan can buy lul)ch downstair-s in the Pub an1d bring it up ·or \brown-bag\ it. ' . 'Dhere be studies English and American culture. For this topic, Kansai-Gaidai is a great place. It erganizes student exchanges with over 50 colleges in the United States. <;>samu thinks that studying .American culture by listening , to original .songs is an interesting approach. However, he finds them hard to understand. His girlfriend, who plays a lot of English songs in her band in Osaka, helps him to translate the lyrics. Before leaving for America, Osamu read a lot about ·Western culture. As a matter of fact, Japanese editors print many books dealing with this subject. Therefore, he expected a lot of what he sees now. For example, he knew that in America, talking to strangers and having physical contacts are common things. However he is stil trying to .get used to this new attitude. There is another difference that is quite striking to him; Japanese \overall society is rather homogeneous. On the contrary. the United States is a real melting pot of many various cultures.\ In Japan, out of all tlle foreigners that live in the country, 80% of them are Korean and 10% Chinese. In a Japanese college, students study less than in equivalent American colleges. Osamu thinks that the books given for classe~ at Union are very similar to .encyclopedias. However, in high school the life of a student is crazy. This is why when you enter college, the last thing you want to do is study. ·so now, the place you. will be in is the Shaeffer Ubrary! International Question of the Week By AIME SIMON \Which cou.ntry do you think i.nfluences current fash.ion the most?\ T~A .. 's Introduce Th·em:seives Nicolas Boch (90)- I think that the Bushmen have bad a tremendous effect on fashion throughout the world. Just look at European nude beaches. Be naked and drink coke. Jason Meshnick (91) - I think the United States, particularly the Amish people have influenced fashion the most. For example look at any formal wedding. The outfits are all Amish. By THETAs I am Ve:toniCJ:ue Bleriot. I'm from Compiegne, France (about 1 hour .from Paris). I studied English in the University of Amiens and later taught for one year in a technical high school. After having been to England and Australia,, I was anxious to come to America. I really enjoy learming about America and tbe American wayof.life~ My name is Primavera Salva Arvide. · I'tn from Veracruz, Mexico, wh.ich is on the Gulf CoasCLreceived a BA from the University.·Of the Americas in Puebla, Mexico. This is my first tim:e living .in this country, although I have visited· several -times before. Every .day I face new experiences and I'm busy learning about American ca1npus life. My· nrune is Jens Bolhofer. I am ftoin Munster, West Germany (near the Dutch border). I sttulied English and History alld received my degree in the fall of last year. I spent / one .year as a student at DIJTha:m University, England. As I also traveled frequently in the United States, I was especially eager to experience this country from an academic viewpoint. Eacll of us, in our l'espective countries, applied through IIE (lnstit11te of International. Educa:tiort) for an assistantship in the US. We were fortunate enollgh to be chosen and even • luckier to be placed at Union College for one school year! As soon as the three of us met, we hitit off right away, for we had so much in common. It's great t<> share feelings and impressions of a n~w country with someone who finds himself in the same situation. We're amazed at bow friendly .everybody is here--students and teacber alike. They have made OR· feelrieht at bome and none of 11s liave had even the slighteSt bit of homesickness. activities as possible, we . barely have enough time to . write letters to friends and Acndonis Vrondissis (90) • Defintely Italy. For men family back home. ill specific, the elegant, chic, and unique suits of Giorgio o 11 e of the most difficult Armani and Mario Valentino have become the classics for tasks for us has been learning men's appareL names. and faces. While many Acnthee Carassavas (89) - Both the Italians and the peopleknow who weare, we're French are the main streams of influence. Armani, still in the process of getting to know everybody. Bear with Versace, and Ferre .seemed to have become the symbols us 1 We'd love to have the of faShion for the last five years. But 1he French seem to chance to meet with you h~ld the title of the. \classic\ designers and styles of clothes such as Chanel. Lanvin, and Y.S.l. individually, wllether you just ~ .. ~=::=:==:=::=:=:=::=::±::=::==:::.=::=====~ want to chat or to get some extra help~ Feel free to drop by our office, which is located in the Hu-manities Bu.ilding, Room 213. You 1 1l be greeted by our lovely secretary, Yvonne. The three of us really enjoy teaching our native langllages. (We hope our students enjoy learning them!) As a final note, we wanfto say t_hat although we form part of the faculty, We 1 d 1ike to be thought of just like all tlie other students here~ Thank you for liUlking us feel welcome! ISU FALL RECEPTION International Food, Comedies and Dances Students and Faculty invited Monday, October 10 at 7:30pm In MILANO LOUNGE Semi Formal We never run out of things to do, Between taking ceurses studyi:ng, p!_anning. afi ·1 I : I ~~~~;:rt~~=g~a:m~i~~=~ •~.....---. _ls_u_ ......... ~--A_a_· ._u_· _F_R ........ ~ ...... ~-~ ....... ~ ......... -· ~ ........ ~\\'\':~. .. o~.s: .. ~,'~· . o._.. ·., ........ 1-..::3~0\\\'!\· .. ~- .\\\:\ .. ~ .. - .\\n. \ .• -:-:-:~,. ~

t i. I . ·~ >' ~~ .i ' ... l I ' ,, CONCORDIENSIS October 6, 1988 Page 9 INTE·RNATIONAL FEATURES Portrait of the We·ek: Osamu Takagi .,,~f . . . .... · slaw ~~~s:ki, oarnm4~\' '!?@ttY .. p . f;'Wa'$' .· . ·e COUrll!iYt$! nmtl'\ .prlmQ . mintstar; A ~erce Qppo,nent of. the~ banned Solidarity traQ$ union, Rakowski suc::ceads Zblgniew Messner, ·wh<> res~ned. Bakowskrs selection Is to , be fottnatly approVed by the Ssjm, ~parliament · Arm~nia: The Soviet Union began withdrawing most of its. troops from Arm . 'a's caPital ·in an atta · to al~viate ethnic unrest over the · · ... ·•· ·.· ... ~d: : ,. · .. . ..... · .·· . . .· . . ··. .. . ... ·. . 1 Q~$P~ t.hiS:Ptift~ut, firt,Qering s' t~~t&iltl Y.erevatra'!'e~poti~d by the 'tan news ager'ley. · · · ·~. ;: Sri taNc;a: A cabinet ·min~st&rirwolVad' with ttw reeonstt\Uotlon of two provirtoos damaged dl.lting fiv~ y~ars o1 ethnic violence was killed by QUrtr:peq,, ..Tho ·staying oAAur.r~d 4() m:Ut;>$ north. t:Jf Colombo, No responsibillty has y&t,~t;m C!fJ.j(n~cl; . \ ·· By NICOLAS BOCH Have you ever windsurfed in Japan? If not, you might seriously consider it. According to Osamu Takagi, it is simply great. Of course, he wouid love to windsurf wherever there are waves to take off. Actually, it is his dedication to this sport that caused him to dream about the United States. All the magazines he was reading about wiRdsurfing showed pictures of Hawaii or California. It does not always take much for someone to learn a foreign laRguage. A friend, a dream or a passion associated to that country can be enough. In Osamu's case, windsurfing was the starting point of his admiration of America. As well, he happened to know the coach of the Japanese Olympic windsurfing team. One day, Osamu asked him what he needed to be on the team; the coach answered by saying, \Learn English.\ Osamu Takagi is an exchange srudent from Kansai- Gaidai University in Osaka. GERMAN MOVIE LANGUAGE TABLES ''NORDSEE IST MORDSEE\ Monday, Oct. 10 In CC Room 406 at 7:30PM FRENCH-Monday 12:45-1:45 SPANISH- Tuesday 11:45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN- Wednesday 12:45-1:45 ITALIAN- Thursday 11 :45-12:45 JAPANESE-Monday 12:45-1:45 All Language Tables will be in the College Center Upperclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on the meal plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub an1d bring it up or \brown-bag\ it. T.A.'s Introduce Themselves By THETAs I am Veronique Bleriot. I'm from Compiegne, France (about 1 hour from Paris). I studied English in the University of Amiens and later taught for one year in a technical high school. After having been to England and Australia, I was anxious to come to America. I really enjoy learning about America and the American way of life. My name is Primavera Salva Arvide. I'm from Veracruz, Mexico, which is on the Gulf Coast. I received a BA from the University of the Americas in Puebla, Mexico. This is my first time living in this country, although I have visited several times before. Every day I face new experiences and I'm busy learning about American campus life. one year as a student at Durham University, England. As I also traveled frequently in the United States,- I was especially eager to experience this country from an academic viewpoint. Each of us, in our respective countries, applied through liE (Institute of International Education) for an assistantship in the US. We were fortunate enough to be chosen and even · luckier to be placed at Union College for one school year! As soon as the three of us met, we hit it off right away, for we had so much in common. It's great to share feelings and impressions of a new country with someone who finds himself in the same situation. We're amazed at how friendly everybody is here--students and teacher alike. They have made us feel riQht at home and none of us have had even the slightest bit of homesickness. activities as possible, we barely have enough time to write letters to friends and family back home. One of the most difficult tasks for us has been learning names and faces. While many people know who we are, we're still in the process of getting to know everybody. Bear with us! We'd love to have the chance to meet with you individually, whether you just want to chat or to get some extra help. Feel free to drop by our office, which is located in the Humanities Building, Room 213. You'll be greeted by our lovely secretary, Yvonne. The three of us really enjoy teaching our native languages. (We hope our students enjoy learning them!) As a final note, we want to say that although we form part of the faculty, we'd like to be thought of just like all the other students here. Thank you for making us feel welcome! There he studies English and American culture. For this topic, Kansai-Gaidai is a great place. It organizes student exchanges with over 50 colleges in the United States. Osamu thinks that studying American culture by listening . to original songs is an interesting approach. However, he finds them hard to understand. His girlfriend, who plays a lot of English songs in her band in Osaka, helps him to translate the lyrics . Before leaving for America, Osamu read a lot about Western culture. As a matter of fact, Japanese editors print many books dealing with this subject. Therefore, he expected a lot of what he sees now. For example, he knew that in America, talking to strangers and having physical contacts are common things. However he is stil trying to get used to this new attitude. There is another difference that is quite striking to him; Japanese \overall society is rather homogeneous. On the contrary, the United States is a real melting pot of many various \'% ,£~, . cultures.\ In Japan, out of all the foreigners that live in the country, 80% of them are Korean and 10% Chinese. In a Japanese college, students study less than in equivalent American colleges. Osamu thinks that the books given for classes at Union are very similar to encyclopedias. However, in high school the life of a student is crazy. This is why when you enter college, the last thing you want to do IS study. So now, the place you will be in is the Shaeffer Ubrary! International Question of the Week By AIME SIMON \Which country do you think influences current fashion the most?\ Nicolas Boch (90)- I think that the Bushmen have had a tremendous effect on fashion throughout the world. Just look at European nude beaches. Be naked and drink coke. Jason Mesh nick (91) - 1 think the United States, particularly the Amish people have influenced fashion the most. For example look at any formal wedding. The outfits are all Amish. Andonis Vrondissis (90) - Defintely Italy. For men in specific, the elegant, chic, and unique suits of Giorgio Armani and Mario Valentino have become the classics for men's apparel. Anthee Carassavas (89) ~ Both the Italians and the French are the main streams of influence. Armani, Versace, and Ferre seemed to have become the symbols of fashion for the last five years. But the French seem to hold the title of the \classic\ designers and styles of clothes such as Chanet. Lanvin, and Y.S.L. ISU FALL RECEPTION International Food, Comedies and Dances Students and Faculty invited Monday, October 10 at 7:30 pm In MILANO LOUNGE Semi Formal My name is Jens Bolhofer. I am from Munster, West Germany (near the Dutch border). I studied English and History and received my degree in the fall of last year. I spent We never run out of things to do. Between taking courses studying, pJanning a~ executing language drills and taking part in as many c~pus ISU T ABL.E F'RIDA Y 12:30 TO 1:30 c i ' ( ~ ; L , •

·• Page 10 CONCORVIBNSIS Oc.ttJI1tr 6, 1988 Founded at U11ion Coll~ge 181'7 .....,.. __ __ What's (Nott) Going On? After the news-.editors had left for the evening I took a look over their secti<m. The article \Restore the Nott Rally Challenges The Administration\ caught my eye. Something about it reminded me ·of my fonner days as news editor. Feeling nostalgic, I browsed .tbrough last fall term's news sections. Sure enough~ a year ago, on October l, my co-editor and Iran an article\ College Will Renovate Librruy, Nott Memorial.\ The following week we ran \Nott Renovations Planned; Face Red Tape Delays\ on the front page. The next week on October 22, the front page sported \Fate of Nott Memorlal Und~rtain; Senior Faculty, VP Give Opinions.\ And on page 3, we did a pictorial feature of the Nott's deterioration. My point is that concern over the Nott is not new. Nor is it exclusive to Concordiensis. Last year's Student Forum showed initiative and concern when they passed a. proposal for a committee to be organized to handle the Nott's restoration. The Restore the Nott Committee was . formed and has played a major part in pu.blicizing the need for action. The student body has indeed showed its interest, and willingness to act on it. Unfortunately, it seems that the Administration has taken no notice. The Schenectady Gazette in its October 3 article, \Nott Memorial Wears Cardh.oard Sign As Students Protest,\ stated \College officials would not comment about the protest. The College has renovated various areas of the memorial in past years but does not· plan a major renovation soon, a college spokesman said.\ Did the Administration feel it was displaying tact not to comment? Protests are not staged to be ignored. What does it say about the College when students rmd it easier to draw attention from the local media than their own administration? What are we to assume, other than apathy on the part of the Administration? Nobody expects, nor is asking, for construction to begin on the Non tomorrow; but everyone has the right to expect the Administration to take notice of and respond to student concerns as well as keep tbe community informed of its actions and plans. Last year's article \College Will Renovate ... \ stated \Although Jack Maranville, Vice President of Institutional Planning, does not foresee any development on such a project [renovation of the Nott], in the next year or two, he does believe that 'Everybody knows you've got to do something with the Nott.\ The student body would like to know what. We don't expect immediate results, but we do expect to be acknowledged and informed of progress, if any, that the Adillinistration is making. The inevitable question we all must ask is \Why have they kept us in the dark?\ Spring or Autumn? As autumn hits the Union College campus, a season which seems to have been created for an academic milieu, a chapter closes in Union's history. Union College has passed through a threshold. Its formerly quaint image of a small liberal arts college located along the banks of the Mohawk River has transfonned into a bustling and competitive community dedicated to academia and its steadfast partner, competition. Evidence of this is demonstrated in the increased pressures of the Union student, th.e newly passed General Education prog~am, the higher admissions standards ... While this editorial does not intend to frown upon this stage of Union's evolution, a sense of loss .. -of Union's innocence-- must be felt. But things are looking bright for Unicn As general as this last statement seems, the sentiment of it rings true. Members of the Union community who have observed the College emerge ftom its modest being (and reputation) can share in the mixed emotions of rejoicement and lamentation. Union is commencing on a journey to the higher and better. The invigorating autumn air whipping around Union's stoic buildings is apropos for tllis new era. ... but don't you see the foliage? ·LETTE.RS Prejudice Runs Rampant at Union To the editor, anothet; thing is looked ~pon less favorably. To all the Mikes o~Jt there ... 1 Should you still ·deny For those of you Wh() did not' feelings of preJudice, · aUow attend American Pictutes you. yourself to fall prey to Mr .. probably had an o1dinary · Harris' situ:ation: pleasant Monday evenillg. But,· You, car is broken down and for those of us who did makeir betp will not anive for a long to the presentation, we were. period of time. In order for you shown a harsh reality :that. to survive out in the cold •you would be terrific if we could· must retreat to one of two classify it as a bunch of identical houses equi-distance \liberalist propaganda.\ away. On the .steps of one sits Unfortunately, poverty, and a white woman and on the racism, is just as evident now steps of the <>ther a black as it has ever been. woman. Now move towards The Jacob Holdt slideshow the house that wi,:U supply you accompanied. by Tony Harris'- with shel~r. workshop sparked more .than According to Mr. Harris, if aw~eness. Within me. it stirred· you are white and you pick the intense emotions .that I had· black house or if you are black never befot;e identified. What; . - and pick the wb.ite house you: the audience should have j ~e lying. The point being that learned is that everyone is , skin color is so evident and it prejudiced. Whether the is much easie~ to discriminate prejudices are unconscious or· against someone because they conscious, mild or intense, we are not like you. all have a preference whereby My impression is that we when we favor someth:ing, need to be coached more on why· we have p~judices so that ~e will-be !Ube to break them; Tony Harris in some respects stifled group particlpatiort ibecam~e whenever someone . resix>nded to a comment be flat out disagreed with them. Whether his intentions were to frustrate us so we can better understand: the . blacks' oppression or just that be was tired of hearing incor.rect responses, it is obvious we need to readdress the issue further. With SP AA, Students for Political Awareness and Action and BLAS, Black and Latin Alliance of Students, it is hop.ed that Mr. HarriS will return for a full . ·blown workshop to promote· .more participation .and interaction in confronting pr.ejudice. Awareness and education .about prejudice are the first steps towards ending the- racism it creates.· Val Sarwin' 89 First Amendment Threatened . To the editor, The First Amendment says: \Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof ... \ , said: ''te~chlng and practice o{ religion (are) pervash::e in the public school syste)11.\ In this presidential election, we have the right to say, yes to a mess of pottage and a member of the ACLU; or yes to the First Amendment. If we say yes to the -First The ACLU tells us, tbe free exercise of religion is wrong, or in their letter, the ACLU -Amendment, perhaps all our ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR. 'MUST BE TYPED . . ' DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 PMONTHE TUESDAY MORNING PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS· Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the following dates: Fall Te,rm September 28 October 19 November9 · No sal8 in Deeember Winter Term · January 18 February 15 Spring Term Maroh29 April26 May24 The sale will run from 12:00-4:00 pm on each of these days in the .. · main lobby of Schaffer >library. Please save this • schedule f.or your .convenience . school children can say, \one nation under God.\ Without the ACLU threatening to sue and seeking damages. · · Isaac Colvin . Lot#32 1599 Kennedy Bridge Rd. Barrodsblirg, KY 4Q330 ( 606)748-5908

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS October 6, 1988 <llolt.Olrbirnsis Fou,nded at Union College 1877 ---.---- What's (Nott) Going On? After the news-editors had left for the evening I took a look over their section. The article \Restore the Nott Rally Challenges The Administration\ caught my eye. Something about it rerninded me of my fonner days as news editor. Feeling nostaligic, I browsed through last fall term's news sections. Sure enough, a year ago, on October 1, m.y co-edi:tor and I ran an article \Col!lege Wi:tl Renovate Library, Nott Memorial.\ The following week we ran \Nott Renovations Planned; Face Red Tape Delays\ on the front page. The next week on October 22, the front page sported \Fate of Nott Memorial Uncertain; Senior Faculty, VP Give Opinions.\ And on page 3, we did a pictorial feature of the Nott's deterioration. My point is that concern over the Nott is not new. Nor is it exclusive to Concordiensis. Last year's Student Forum showed initiative and concern when they passed .a proposal for a committee to be organized to handle the Nott's restoration. The Restore the Nott Committee was formed and has played a major part in publicizing the need for action. The student body has indeed showed its interest, and willingness to act on it. Unfortunately, it seems that the Administration has taken no notice. The Schenectady Gazette in its October 3 article, \Nott Memorial Wears Cardboard Sign As Students Protest,\ stated \College officials would not comment about the protest. The College has renovated various areas of the memorial in past years but does not plan a major renovation soon, a college spokesman said.\ Did the Administration feel it was displaying tact not to comment? Protests are not staged to be ignored. What does it say about the College when students fmd it easier to draw attention from the local media than their own administration? What are we to assume, other than apathy on the part of the Administration? Nobody expects, nor is asking, for construction to begin on the Nott tomorrow; but everyone has the right to expect the Administration to take notice of and respond to student concerns as well as keep the community informed of its actions and plans. Last year's article \College Will Renovate ... \ stated \Although Jack Maranville, Vice President of Institutional Planning, does not foresee any development on such a project [renovation of the Nott], in the next year or two, he does believe that 'Everybody knows you've got to do something with the Nott.\ The student body would like to know what. We don't expect immediate results, but we do expect to be acknowledged and informed of progress, if any, that the Administration is making. The inevitable question we all must ask is \Why have they kept us in the dark?\ Spring or Autumn? As autumn hits the Union College campus, a season which seems to have been created for an academic milieu, a chapter closes in Union's history. Union College has passed through a threshold. Its formerly quaint image of a small liberal arts college located along the banks of the Mohawk River has transformed into a bustling and competitive community dedicated to academia and its steadfast partner, competition. Evidence of this is demonstrated in the increased pressures of the Union student, the newly passed General Education program, the higher admissions standards ... While this editorial does not intend to frown upon this stage of Union's evolution, a sense of loss--of Union's innocence-- must be felt. But things are looking bright for Union. As general as this last statement seems, the sentiment of it rings true. Members of the Union community wh<> have obsetved the College emerge from its modest being (and reputation) can share in the mixed emotions of rejoicement and lamentation. Union is commencing on a journey to the higher and better. The invigorating autumn air whipping around Union's stoic buildings is apropos for this new era. .. . but don't you see the foliage? LETTERS Prejudice Runs Rampant at Union ' To the editor, To all the Mikes out there... · For th.ose of you who did not' attend American Pictures you. probably had an ordinary pleasant Monday evening. But,· for th.ose of us who did make it ! to the presentation, we were shown a harsh reality that. would be terrific if we could· classify it as a bunch of \liberalist propaganda.\. Unfortunately, poverty, and racism, is just as evident now as it has ever been. The Jacob Holdt slideshow accompanied by Tony Harris' - workshop sparked more than awareness. Within me it stirred· intense emotions that I had never before identified. What the audience should have 1 learned is that everyone is . prejudiced. Whether the prejudices are unconscious or conscious, mild or intense, we all have a preference whereby when we favor something, another thing is looked upon less favorably. Should you still deny feelings of prejudice, allow yourself to fall pr.ey to Mr. Harris' situation: Your car is broken down and help will not arrive for a long period of time. In order for you to survive out in the cold ·you must retreat to one of two identical houses equi-distance away. On the steps of one sits a white woman and on the steps of the other a black woman. Now move towards the house that wiH supply you with shelter. According to Mr. Harris, if you we white and you pick the black house or if you are :black and pick the white house you are lying. The point being that skin color is so evident and it is much easier to discriminate against someone because they are not like you. My impression is that we need to be coached more on why we have prejudices so that ~e will be albe to break them. Tony Harris in some respects stifled group participation because whenever someone responded to a comment he flat out disagreed· with them. Whether his intentions were to frustrate us so we can better undentand the blacks' oppression or just that he was tired of hearing incorrect responses, it is obvious we need to readdress the issue further. With SP AA, Students for Political Awareness and Action and BLAS, Black and Latin Alliance of Students, it is hoped that Mr. Harris will return for a full blown workshop to promote more participation and interaction in confronting prejudice. Awareness and education about prejudice are the first steps towards ending the racism it creates. Val Sarwin' 89 First Amendment Threatened To the editor, The First Amendment says: \Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof...\ The ACLU tells us, the free exercise of religion is wrong, or in their letter, the ACLU ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY MORNING PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the following dates: Fall Term September 28 October 19 November9 No sale in December Winter Term January 18 February 15 Spring Term March 29 April26 May24 The sale will run from 12:00-4:00 pm on each of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer library. Please save this schedule for your convenience . said: \teaching and practice of religion (are) pervasiye in the public school system.\ In this presidential election, we have the right to say, yes to a mess of pottage and a member of the ACLU, or yes to the First Amendment. If we say yes to the First -Amendment, perhaps all our school children can say, \one nation under God.\ Without the ACLU threatening to sue and seeking damages. Isaac Colvin Lot #32 1599 Kennedy Bridge Rd. Harrodsburg, KY 40330 (606) 748-5908

CONCORDIENSIS October 6, 19·88 Page 11 LETTERS An Explanation of ROTC Uniforms National Superiorities Questioned 'To the editor, I'd like to welcome the Ariny ROTC to Union and ~orrect a. statement made by Maj.or Vargus in September 22 issue of Concordiensis, He said that the uniformed personnei seen on_ campus w~re members of the Atmy ROTC. I think that you'd find .that most of these \personnel\ are act1,1ally Naval ROtC Midshipmen. To differentiate between Cadets and Midshipmen is actually easy t~ do. Navy option Mid~hipmen wear either a khaki uniform or ·a dar~ blue \working blues\ uniform on regular drill_ days and either a white uniform ot . the standard dres·s blues on special occasions .. Marine option. Mis~ipmen wear camouflage utilities on regular drill c:bi.ys and the same uniform as Navy options on special occasions. Cadets also wear . camouflage utilities bat the Marine optiens' are worn differently. Their c.evers are in an <>ctagon sha.pe and \blocked\, their sleeves are rolled with the inside material showing on the roll, and lie Marine options have USMC on their left breast pocket. Despite the different unifonns, our mission is the same, to train to become officers and lead men in the protection and defense of the United States. Very Respectfully, MIDN 1/c John G. Baker, USMCR To the editor~ liberal arts campus. And second, Turl.cey and Greece have reached significant agreements in the interantional arena to solve their current problems, eliminate cultural biases, and increase cooperaton between the two nations. The ideas have received support from all rational and sensitive citizens of either country. ' ' . .. . - .. . . ··- ·- . . . . . As a citizen of Turkey and member of the Union College community I am very disappointed_by some of the remarks that Anthee carassavas makes in the article titled \Hitting the Town in Greece\ (Concordiensis- September 29, 1988). In this article, An thee Carassavas states that in Greece, \The young executi-ve is awakened by the calls of his Philippine and/or Turkish maid, for his freshly baked chocolate Cl\Oissants are .getting cold.\ I am surprised that someone who is trying to write articles on modern day Greece is llnaware of these recent developments. At this time, advocates of understanding between the two countries must be as outspoken in the beliefs as those who do not hesitate. to express their cultuJal prejudice. .e L o· · -N· · ·o o··· ·N· h ~ ·. ·. ' ...••... · · .. ·.· .• ·. ·· .. ~· Many cultures which had lived under the domination of the Ottoman Empire for centuries have developed cultural biases against Turkey's modem democratic society. Attitudes learned within a culture such as this reflect a need to feel superior to the historical ruler, the Turks. INTERNSHIPS ·wA-SRlNG-TO.N Yours sincerely, Necip Doganaksoy PHD candidate Member of the adjunct faculty Graduate Management Institute, Union College LONDON Art/Architecture • Business/Economics • Human/Health Services • Journalism/Communications • Visual/Performing Arts • Politics · WASHINGTON Anthee Carassavas' article bothered me deeply for two reasons. First of all. cultural prejudices have no place on a Politics • Business/Economics • Pre-Law • International Relations • Journalism/Communications • Health Fields • T~e Arts • Specialty . OXFORD Modern British Sttldies. GAMES EVENING Politics • History • Literature , All internship programs include 1.6 semester-hour credits, full-time internships, centrally located apartments, individualized placements tor virtually every academic interest. Monday, October 10th at 7 pm in CC 203 the Newman Club wHI sponsor a Games Evening . aOSTON UNIII.ERSI\TV SIO:\iQU11:.1!NT£NNIAl . BOSTON UNIVERSITY International Programs 725 Commonwealth Avenue, B-2 Boston, MA 02215 617/353-9888 Come and play: Pictionary, Uno, Trivial Pursuit, etc~, etc., etc., ·An equal opportunity. affirmative a.ction in~titution, ••••••••e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ALL WELCOME. _ HEPRESEt\ITATIVE ON CAMPUS October 7 at 2 p.m. Faculty Lounge, 2nd floor of Humanities An ad hoc com-mittee has been formed to consider the tenurabHity of Prof. Larry Mc·Gahey of -the Chemistry Department. The CommitH~,e .invites anyone who would like to 1 present _either oral or written . testimony, bearing on Prof. McGah~y·s teaching, research or college service, to contact any · committee member.: . Profs. Bruce Reynolds, Chair (Economics; extension 621 7); Janet Anderson (Chemistry);- Yu Chang (Electrical Engineering); Seth Greenberg (Psychology). - · DO-N'T MIS·s OUT ON THE.SE · UPCOMING EVENT'S: Brought to you by the Unlqn College Concert Com·m IUee, Speakers Forum and Socl'al Alternatives. Date Entertainment Friday, Abrams & Anderson lmprov Oct 7 followed by \The River Rats\ Time & P lac.e College Center 9.:00 pm- 12 am Friday, Larry Linville from· Mash Oct 1·4 Memorial Chapel 8:00 pm (Tickets $3.00) :** *********************************** * * ! ' * * Hany S. Truman Scholarship Foundation * ~ 1 h ~ ..- 712 Jackson Pace, NW. Was ington, DC 2006 ~ * * * Telep· hone 202-395-4831 * '* * * * : Union College : * * * Union College sophomores interested in a career in government * : service at the fedenrl. state or local level are invited to apply for a ! , * 1989 Harry S. Truman Scholarship. ,._ * * * * * Established by Congress in 1975, the Harry S. Truman Scholarship * * Foundation operates an ongoing educational sch<>lar$ip program It : , designed t.o provide opportunities for outstanding U.S. students with ! * potentla:lleadershlp ~bUlly to prepare for careers Ln government * * sexvice. - * * * : In April 1$89. the foundation will award 105 Scholarships ! * nationally. The DEADLINE for all 1989 applications is * * ~emeberl, 1989 It * * : Union College can nominate three students for the 1989 competition. : * * : The Scholarship award covers expenses up to $7,000 per year for : * the junior, the senior, and two years of graduate study. * * * * * * To be eUglable, a student must be a full-time sophomore working * : toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a \B\ : * average qr equivalent, stand in the upper fourth of the class, and be * : a u.s. citiZen or U.S. national heading toward a career in government : * * : Interested students should submit a letter of application, a : * statexnent of career plans, a list of past 'public-service activities or * : oU1er leadefship positions, a current transcript, and a 600-word : * essay discussing a public policy issue of their choice to * * Prof. Charles Tidrrtarch. * * * *- * * · 'Iiuman Scholarship Faculty Representative * : Soc. Sci. 216 • by Novemember 10. : *'**************************************************•

CONCORDIENSIS October 6, 1988 Page 11 LETTERS An Explanation of ROTC Uniforms National Superiorities Questioned I'd t:ike to welcome the Army ROTC to Union and correct a statement made by Major Vargus in September 22 issue of Concordiensis. He said that the uniformed personnel seen on campus were members of the Army ROTC. I think that you'd find that most of these \personnel\ are actually Naval ROTC Midshipmen. To differentiate between Cadets and Midshipmen is actually easy to do. Navy option Midshipmen wear either a khaki uniform or a dark blue \working blues\ uniform on regular drill days and either a white uniform or the standard dress blues on special occasions. Marine option Mishipmen wear camouflage utilities on regular drill days and the same uniform as Navy options on special occasions. Cadets also wear camouflage utilities but the Marine options' are worn differently. Their covers are in an octagon shape and \blocked\, their sleeves are rolled with the inside material showing on the roll, and 1/c Marine options have USMC on their left breast pocket. Despite tb.e different uniforms, our mission is the same, to train to become officers and lead men in the protection and defense ofthe United States. Very Respectfully, MIDN 1/c John G. Baker, USMCR · To tile editor, As a citizen of Turkey and rn.ernber of the Union College liberal arts campus. And second, Turkey and Greece have reached significant agreements in the interantional arena to solve their current problems, eliminate cultural biases, and increase cooperaton between the two nations. The ideas have received support from all rational and sensitive citizens of,either country. ~LONDON~ INTERNSHIPS · community I am very . disappointed by some of the remarks that An thee Carassavas makes in the article titled \Hitting the Town in Greece\ (Concordiensis- September 29, 1988). In this article, AntJ:tee Carassavas states that in Greece, \The young executive is awakened by the calls of his Philippine and/or Turkish maid, for his freshly baked chocolate croissants are getting cold.\ Many cultures which had live<:l under the domination of th.e Ottoman Empire for centuries have developed cultural biases against Turkey's modem democratic society. Attitudes learned within a culture such as this reflect a need to feel superior to the historical ruler, the Turks. I am surprised that someone who is trying to write articles on modern day Greece is unaware of these recent developments. At this time, advocates of understanding between the two countries must be as outspoken in the beliefs as those who do not hesitate to express their cultural prejudice. ............ ___ .. _________ , ..... - ................. -- ........... _ ............. ~······················ .. ······-· ... . .... ' .. . WASHINGTON Yours sincerely, Necip Doganaksoy PHD candidate Member of the adjunct faculty Graduate Management Institute, Union College lONDON Art/Architecture • Business/Economics· Human/Health Services • Journalism/Communications· Visual/Performing Arts • Politics WASHINGTON Anthee Carassavas' article bothered me deeply for two reasons. First of all, cultural prejudices have no place on a Politics • Business/Economics • Pre-Law • International Relations • Journalism/Communications • Health Fields· The Arts • Specialty OXFORD GAMES EVENING Modern British Studies Politics • History • Literature .-:-:-:-:------- 11 internship programs include 16 semester-hour credits, full-time internships, centrally located apartments, individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Monday, October 10th at 7 pm in CC 203 the Newman Club will sponsor a Games Evening. BOSTON UNIVERSITY International Programs ~t•H<l!'' 1.. \<1\EII\ITY ~f'>Ql..ll INTf .... NI\l 725 Commonwealth Avenue, B-2 Boston, MA 02215 617/353·9888 Come and play: Pictionary, Uno, Trivial Pursuit, etc., etc., etc., An equal opportun1ty. aff1rmat1ve act1on mstltUIIOn ~····································· ALL WELCOME. REPRESENTATIVE ON CAMPUS October 7 at 2 p.m. Faculty Lounge, 2nd floor of Humanities An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Prof. Larry McGahey of the Chemistry Department. The Committee invites anyone who would like to 1 present either oral or written I testimony, bearing on Prof. McGahey's teaching, research or college service, to contact any committee member: Profs. Bruce Reynolds, Chair (Economics; extension 6217); Janet Anderson (Chemistry); Yu Chang (Electrical Engineering); Seth Greenberg (Psychology). DON'T MISS OUT ON THESE UPCOMING EVENTS: Brought to you by the Union College Concert Committee, Speakers Forum and Social Alternatives. Date Entertainment Friday, Abrams & Anderson lmprov Oct.7 followed by \The River Rats\ Time & Place College Center 9:00 pm- 12 am Friday, Larry Linville from Mash Oct. 14 Memorial Chapel 8:00pm (Tickets $3.00) ;*** *****~********************************* * * * * * Hany S. Truman Scholarship Foundation * ~ ! ~ 712Jackson Place, N\V, Washington, DC 2006 ....- * * * Telephone 202-395-4831 * * * * * : Union College : * * * Union College soph()mores interested in a career in government * : service at the federal, state or local level are invited to apply for a ! * 1989 Harry S. Truman Scholarship. * * * * * * Established by Congress in 1975, the Hany S. Truman Scholarship * * Foundation operates an ongoing educational scholarship program * t designed to provide opportunities for outstanding U.S. students wlU1 ! * potential leadership ability to prepare for careers in government * * service. * * * t In April 1989, the foundation will award l 05 Scholarships ! * nationally. ~he DEADLINE for all 1989 applications is * * Decemeber 1. 1989 * * * : Union College can nominate three students for the 1989 competition. : * * : The Scholarship award covers expenses up to $7,000 per year for ! * fue junior. the senior, and two years of graduale study. * * * * * : To be eliglable, a student must be a full-time :sophomore working ! * toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a \B\ * * average or equivalent. stand in the upper fourth of the class. and be * : a U.S. clllzen or U.S. national heading toward a career in government : * * t Interested students should submit a letter of application. a : * statement of career plans. a llst of past public-service activities or * t' oU1er leadership positions, a current transcript, and a 600-word : * essay discussing a public policy issue of their choice to * * Prof. Charles Tidmarch. * * * * * *\ Truman Scholarship Faculty Representative * : Soc. Sci. 216. by Novemember 10. : *\**************************************************•

Page 12 CONCORDIEN$1S Oetober 6, 1988 Come be a part of · · the Unlo.n College TAP DAN-CE cLu:e First Organizational and I nl e rest Meeting Wed., Octobe.r 1:2 8:00 Pill! Memorial.·; ~spel Beginners 'tl.elcome! Bring Your Shoes. If you Have them!! For more lnlo. Call' Michelle or Dwight. 393-7821 38'6·6603 : Are·you interested in· the Powerof.tb.e Supreme Court to Affect the Rights of Each Individual? Does the Conservative slant of the u.s. Legal system interest you? If so, join us at . Albany Law Scl10ol for an Open Forum about the upcoming Rehearsing by the Supreme Court of the landmark. Runyon vs. Me Leary Case of 1968. Today Oct. 6 at 4 pm. · (Sponsored by the National Lawyers Guild~) CROSSTALK presents:_ ·Cheat-ing: Does AnyblJdy Lose'j At the U.S, Military Academy students sign a ,pledge saying they ''will not cheat nor tolerate those who do.\ ye~ some cadets do cheat and some .tolerate it. Sqme of us nave cheated, , many know someone else who has. Bat what' tlle big deal? Join facul·ty and .students in an informal discussit:>n. Bring your friends and your own point of view. Refre!)hments will be served. Wednesday, October 12, 1988 s.~oo in College Center Atrium .. Dr. Andrea Parrot will spe·ak at Union on \R· ·. ·1 ·t· · ·h· : e a tons ·•p;s: Decisions? Decisions!'' On the faculty at Cornell, Dr. Parr()t ·teaches courses in Human Sexuality. She is wide_ly recognized in her field, has spoken 011 numerous campuses and has been cited in many national publications. At Union she will facilitate a discLJssion on relationships. The program will be at 3:00 to 5:00pm Thursday, October ~3 in the College Center Auditorium. SOT presents its 3rd annual M&M-A-Ihonl Friday, October 14th at the. College ~ent~r. Can you guess how many M&M's ten Sisters can eat 1n 3 mmutes? ? 1 1st Prize $50 gif~ certificat!3 to . • 'I Strawbernes ~Mus·IC Store. 2nd Prize- $25 gift certificate to same. So do NOT FORGET Find a sister & make your guess ASAP! Booth in Ca~negie Tues. ? All Money Goes To The National Prevention Of Child .Abuse. ., 1989 MAR;SHALL. SCHOLARSHIP - . Graduating seniors please note that appltcations for the 1989 · Marsh~ Scholarship competition are due on Qclober 15 .• 1988, The B,ritish M~UShall scholarshj.p$, funded by the British Government; wer.e established in 1953 as a national gestQre of thanks to the United States \' for aid under th:e Marshall Plan. Up to tltirty college graduates, men and women llllder 26, are selected annually to work as British Marshall Scholars for two years for further degr~ at 45 British Universities·in a wide .range of subjects (including the scie:nces and humanities). As. the MarshaU Committee explains: \ .•. there ·is no s1;1ch thing as'a sterotypiGal :ManhaU Scholar. While theMarshall Scholarships have a · high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish. to ret~ ' there has been tendency to assume that.this is the ~le criteria. Because of the minimum required GPA(3;7 or A-), it is, of course, assumed that lt11 candidates have done very well: :in their academic stu<!ies .. (Students with very strong academic reco:rds that m11:y fall ju~tshort of · 3;7 are still Ul'ged to apply.) Within th:is framework, the selection conunittees are looking for additional ·qualities that distinguish. the Marshall Scholars from others; Potenti!ij Marshall Scholars usually have a wide :range ofpersonal interests and :Qehievements, but above all · display a wide sense of adventure-. enthusia~;n1, originality:, . itJ.dividuality and a potential. for leadership. The <;omrtrittees- are particularly interested in those candidates who are likely to make a · · practical ·as well as _an intellectual ~ntribution to public life or interrtati!Jnal.affairs in the USA whateve;r the.it chosen careers, whether. iti business, public service, politics, jol.lrllalism, science, industry:, . education (>r aeademics.\ For applications and further information eontact Prof. Marten, · English Dept. (ext 6052). AI1ENTIONI CHUC TUTORS .NEEDED . Do you feel qualfied enough to tutor others and earn extra $$$$ While doing H? THE CHUC ROOMS ARE OPEN FOR WORD PROCESSING. If· so, the AOP rutoring Service needs youl!l! For further information, Please see: All subjects: Psychology Economics Anthropology Physics Logic Etc. AGI?_ Office Bailey Hall Room 101 Ext. 6115 • Student· Consultants to Help You • Classes in Word Perfect • Free • Formore Information Visit us in the Humanities Basement The Department of So~iology and Anthropology Announces its Third Annual Lewis Henry Morg,an Colloquia .. ': The Fall term speaker's are: OCTOBER 19 Dr. Donileen Loseke· visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology \Translating Theory into Practice: The Battered Woman's Social Movement and Services for Battered Women~· NOVI\MBER 10 Dr. Stephen Zehr ,Visiting Assist~nt Professor of Sociology . \Interpretative Flexibility and the Professionallnterests of Scientists in the Acid Rain Controversy\ 3:30-1RACY ROOM (SS .213)- Please . cQntact :Martha Huggins, chair of the Department of So~iology a:nd Antltropology (X6292) :J{omegoing 'Brunch at 1-Iale Home Dining Room Sunday, Oct. 16, 1988 Seating at 10 am and 12 Noon. FREE TO MEAL CARD CONTRACT HOLDERS FOR I PUNCH OR $6.75 per PERSON Reservations accepted from 2 pm to 4 pm M-F x6617. Don't miss the best brunch in Town! Limited seating still available, Call Today! · ' ......... - .· ... .

\ ' L . ·! ) i CONCORDlENSIS OctolJer 6, 19.88 -- -----=--- ..... ._.________ 0 - --·--------- oo A-.---·-·-~------- . ' SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY How·to Solve·Our Water Problems By KEVIN GA.RDNER Just as it took syringes. on the beaches ana solfd ·waste floating in th.e ocean for people totealize tilat tile Northeastern United States has a waste dispesalptoblem, it has taken the worst di:ought in fifty years for people t() .realize that our · !DOSt precious resource is very limited. Tbis summer saw our · cotUJ:try's. farmers going bankrupt <L11e to a lack of water, and courrti.es nationwide had to ·restrict water consumption. MHlions of dollars in government aid had t() be distributed to the farmers of America 1 which is only the most obvions, immediate,. .and direct effect that the drought had on tbe average. U.S. taxpayer. There are places in the United States where the level of the groundwater has .dropped 400feetbelow what it should be. This problem is compotin.ded by the water quality is~ue. which, with haz!U'dOll~ waste dumps and leachate . from land.fills infiltratiag our groundwater, labels mlichof the U.S.'s water unsafe fot use. The allswer: · conservation and,reuse. . The av-erage person uses 25 to 55 gallo11s of potable water, water clean enough for dririking, <:ooking, and bat:hi~g. Another 25 gallons a day of nonpotable water is' used for other ,purposes, such as flushing the toilet, With a water reClamation system, already used water, :after wastewater treatment, can be redistributed for. many nonpotable uses. These uses include watering golf courses; hig.h:way greenbelts, and residential lawns, cooling industrial plants, flushing toilets, and recharging ~undwater. There are water reuse systems that are now in use. On the residential level, the University of Arizona designed and implemented a reuse system in a single heme, referred to as Casa Del Agua. Rainwater was collected from the roof of the house to be used as potable water.' The \grey\ water from laundry, showers, and :sinks was collected in a sump, .and then reused for toilet flushing and irrigation. Aftel! one year,. the project reused 20,000 gallons of water in -toilet Jlushing alone. In industry, a fine example of a water reclamation system is in Baltimore, Md. Bethlehem Steel spends $4000 to $5000 each month to buy almost aU -of Balttmore'S• wastewater. 100,000,000 gallons each day is piped nine --miles to the steel plant for TilE BIOL.OGY DEP AlffMENT and 1 BIOLOGY CLU·B Present PROF. \RAYMOND .STOSS . SUNY 'ALBANY •'CYCLIC GROWT-H AND ·ITS ECOLOGICAL· IMPLICA\fiONS'' . - . Wednesday, October 12; 1988 4:40 P~M. Room 106 BAILEY HALL REFRESHMENTS 4:30 H&st: c. George CA,Ll FOR SCIENTIFIC PAPERS FOR · INlERNATIONAL CONFER'ENCE ON MACHINERY MONITOR-ING AND DIAGNOSIS Uni()n College will sponsor 'the 1st lnterna!ional Machi11ery Monitoring and Diagnostic .Conference, to :take !)lace September 11-14, 1989 in Las Vegas, Nevada. · The Conference responds to the need for an intemational forum for the exchange of knowledge in _monitoring machinery,· structures, processes· and systems iri order to predict and diagnose their life cycles in service. . Papers are sought on a variety of topics, including but not limited to: pattern recogAition, artificial ihtelligence, anaJytical methods, smart transducers, ·acoustic · emission, ultrasonic techniques, and maintenance · management. . · Pi ease submit a short abstract of the pape.r (not more than 2:00 words). by December-15, 1988 to: D.o.minick De'Micl1ele, Off.ice of Graduate and-Continuing Studies, . Wells House, Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308- . 2363. · Prospective exhibitors are also invited to inquire about further Information by responding to the address above, o~ by ~~_l!!ng D. DeMichele, director, at (518) 370-6673. reuse as a coolant. This project not only conserves water but improves th~ environment by keeping the hatrnful wastewater out of·~ nearby river. A thitd application of water reclamation systems is to recharge depleted gtQundwater supplies. In El Paso, Texas a reclamation plant has returned 1.6 billien gallons of drinldng quality water t() the groundwater. The plant retutns 10,000,000 gallons of water each day. These watet treatment . facilities are not cheap; and the processes to convert wastewater to drinking quality water are complex. For example. the El , Paso plant treats the water with powdered activated c~bon, activated sludge, lime, recarbonation, sand filtration, ozone disinfection, granular activated carbon, and a trace of chlorine. The results of these processes, however, are necessarv to alleviate the water problem the United States now faces. With such systems installed country-wide only the highest quality water would be used for drinking. while lower · quality water could be used for irrigation. industrial cooling. - groundwater ~J:wge,and toilet flushing. Reuse coJ~ld ·cut 'the United State's water consumption by 25%. That's a lot of water. ~·s.orxy rm late~ I was working out ,. to 5,000 places.\ C-STEP OCTOBER SEMINAR Tu.&sday,. OctGber 11, 4:30 p.m. G'!!!'fl.etJcs Lab Science/Engineering Bldg •. S 301. T.'OPIC: Recent Advances in Understanding Repr() d uction with Professor Butterstein Modern technology has pro- vided the opportunity to in• vestigate the complex. in- teractions within the repro· ductive system. New methods in scientific re- search have unveiled a new understanding ~bout human reproduction and our sexual- ity. The. workshop will ex- plore this new technology and discuss tile research on- going here at tbe College. ()FEN TO C-STEP ELI.GIELE STUDE\NTS. CALL N~. DAVID AT 370-6404 TO RESERVE SEA..iiNG. Space Capsule: The Folly of the American Space ·Program . . I By MARTY HECK Monday afternoon the space shuttle landed gracefully at Edwards Air FForce Base, marking a perfect end to the United Staates' return to outer space. The shuttle performed almost flawlessly during the mission, renewing faitll in our space program. The U.S. has scored an important victory, and now things may return to normal; or so it may seem. . One important mission scheduled for the near future is the deployment of the Hubble space telescope. This telescope is expected to improve our view of the u11iverse by 1 roughly the same factor as Galileo's first telescope. The I Hubble telescope could allow . scientists to view the edges of the universe. and expand the knowledge of our creation and of the galaxy in which we live by an infinite amount. But this project, and many others, are in grave danger. The knowledge with which the universe can provide us is priceless. From the origin of life, to utilizing the resources of our sister planets, space explorat(}n i:; the key that our future vtillre~olve around. We have lean1e<l too late how to treat the vro:r:ld on which we live. Our ·()nly salvation may be off ·DIU planet. But politici.'ans r-efuse to look towards the: f11ture. The Hubble space teles.cope has been temporarily shelved. Besides, the cost of }Jostponing the telescope-'s orbit, (storage for the behle:.lllMit runs into the milHans per day), the technolo~;y is already outdated. and the l~tunch date may be pushed :so ;far back, solar flares may m.~ke it impossible to orbit; alt ft>t the sake of another SJlysatellite. The 1f.S. govemment and the spac:e program itself have failed ot~r space exloration attemj)ts 'i·Jl a. hundred ways. Concentrati11g' on expensive launch webicles. it costs the United. S-tates over 6,000 dollars per pound to orbit projects; the Soviets can orbit them for around 300 dollars per pound, Three years ago, an important intercept of a comet was dropped for lack of the $66 million a year for six years. Farm subsidies use that amount in less than two days. The upcoming election will · mark a turning point in the space program. George Bush is very strongly pro-space, although be will likely not improve the progam or rearrange its priorities. Michael Dukakis, even though he supports some projects, would more than likely do irreparable damage. His emphasis on waseful social project and inevitable boost of taxes will decimate the space program. It is impossible to c.onvey the importance space will play in our future. More than likely, our ignorance will perpetuate and we will become lost in the black hole of fe,deral bureaucracy. THE MINERVA HOUR- THE MINER'V·A COMMITTEE OF UNION C.OLLEGE PRESENTS: JAMES J. COYNE is serving his fourth t~E~rril as Albany County executive during the county's most . explosive period of growth. A native ofCoiCJnle, he earned his bachelor's degree at Siena College, and his master's at Russell Sage. He was ateac:her an.d administrator in Albany County schools before taking public office. His lecture is titLed .. CCJunty Government and Economic Develpment.\ THURSDA.Y, OCT. 6, 11 AM Cl)lle~tl Center Auditorium. All are Welcome. Admission Free. PrO$Jram Is sllbjeci to change. For lnfo1mat1on: (518) $70·6508

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS Octob~r 6, 19ll8 3 . ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ·•Holly:wood Fax By ANDREW COLLINS AND MICHAEL SILBERSTEIN . Fr~m Tom Cruise .to Mickey Rourk~ to Elvis and Bono. A new tradition is born at Union C·oHege. A new :newspaper column dedicated · to pure. gossip concerning your favorite ·, . entertainment figures. The . column itself wiU center . - - .Gentleman) puts in a stunning perfortnance as the· Memphis :Rocket. Incidentally, he is the only Elvis impersonator to be approved by the estate of the late great King ... U2's full length concert movie, Rattle and Hum, delayed over six ·months, will finally be released Friday November 4th {Can't wait! !) The sonndtrack w.ill be available earlier, however .•. ,While on the subject of mega band U2, Bono has just written a new song; \She's a Mystery to Me,\ for Roy Orbison's upcoming solo album. Rumor has it that Orbison is pushing · for a new Springsteen tune as well!! (A little demanding now aren't we Roy?}... BiUy D. Williams (You know the · pretty ·. boy Colt 45 worshipper~ .• ) .has reportedly just been cast in Warner Bros/ Batma1.1. Michael Keaton is rumoured to have the lead role ... Just when you thought it was safe to watch television again, Miami Vice will premiere it's season opener on November 4th, with Sonny Crocl,\:ett actually thinking he is Sonny Burnett-his drug dealing alias~ The show will be in 2 parts and is directed by Don John'Son. It's title: ·nream of Life\ Patti Smith Returns rnestly around upcoming projects of various actors and directors; bu.t music ·news will also weave itself into the format. Both the :reporters listed above are not experts. sri if you d.o happen to find a - mistake (very doubtful) please report it immediately. Well. enough chit chat .,.let's get cracking. Imagine: John Lennon, · the new documentary conceming the ex .. Beatle, opens in New York this week. The movie is made of over 240 By JOHN S. MORGAN Patti Smith's return to the music world after a nine year sabbatical was marked by the late summer release of her fifth album on Arista Records-- Dream of Life. This effort is understandably different than her hallmark work of the late 70's, yet it fmihers her almost bands such as Talking Heads, The Ramones, The Shirts- and The Stilettos (who were to become Blondie) called CBGB home and defined what would become the \New Wave\ scene. This was before Jerry Harrison had joined The Heads, before The Ramones had learned to play_ their instruments as well as they do now and at a time when The Stilettos featured Debbie Jarry as a backing vocalist-- none of these bands drew big crowds and CBGB was a money loser. Along came Patti Smith, already an incre4ible star in Manhattan, with a ne\V backing band that needed a place to work out, The Patti Smith Group played four nights a week, two shows a night, for seven straight weeks in March and April of 197 5. There were crowds for every .show,.and CBGB was in the media to stay. Her last U.S. show before her sabbatical from the music industry was· at CBGB. The ,raw energy of Radio Ethiopia(l977) is not present on Dream of Life, bat that does not justify irrelevant criticism .of the album. It is a beautifully melodic record that features the poetic lyrics of Patti Smith as its centerpiece. · - hours of film and video, much unseen, compiled by Andrew · Solt. Yoko Ono supplied · legendary status as a lyricist. Patti Smith has long been associated wtih .the undrground music scene in New York City-- the early stomping ground of Lou Reed, The New York Dolls and The Miamis. Always more of a poet than a \punk\, she first dtew large audiences at readings from her two books of poems at St. Mark's Chur~Jl in 1973-- musical backing was,added as an afterthought-- at a time during which · she was contributing to Rolling Stone, Crawdaddy and Cream. At first fellow rock journalist Lenny Kaye joined her on guitar, and then a pianist, drummer and another guitarist were added to form The Patti Smith Group. The Group was largely responsible for the success of CBGB~OMFUG as a rock venue. In 1915, struggling Smith's association with the early scene at CBGB has obviously misled some of today's rock journ.alists. Dream of Life is not a punk record, and it has drawn some criticism for this, even on the pages of Rolling Stone. - \People Have The Power\ can be found up and down the i FM dial, while \Looking For · 1 You (I Was)\ is scheduled.tQ be. released: as. tbe second single. Recorded/ in the memory of Smith's friend Andy Warhol, \Up There Down There\ is the album's most powerful track. I also find \Paths That aross\ to mak~ good listening; whereas ''Going Under\ has potent lyrics, but is too let\gthy. Patt Smith fans who have been waiting to hear .from her for nine years must be sleeping better these nights. Tb:e wait for Dream of Life was yet longer dae to the birth of Sntith's daughter Jesse right after recording began in the winter of 1986. Unfortunately, Smith does not plan to tour . llehind the album at this time, but the album itself is a refreshing effort. NEXT WEEK: Lloyd Cole and The Commotions Cocteau Twins UNION REVIEW QF BOOKS- BELOVED Toni Morrison \Beloved\ is Toni Morrison's fifth novel .• and another triumph. Indeed, Ms. Morrison's versatility and technical and emotional ran~e appear to know no bounds. If there were any doubts about her stature as a pre-eminent American novelist, of her own or any other generation, \Beloved\ will put them to rest. In three words or less, it's a hair-raiser.\ . -· Margaret Atwood, New York Times BQok Review . Objective: Monthly discussion open to the campus community--- faculty , staff. and students- involving a book selected for its visibility and potential interest to the commu~ity . Meeting dates are the second Wedn~sday o.f each month throt~ghout the academic school year from 1 :00 to 2:00 pm at the College Center. PIHS}\ SELECTION FOR 1,988-89- BELOVED: A Novel. On sale at the Campus Store a1 a discount of 50%~ A WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19,1988 I'N THE COLLEGE CENTER 1.:00 • 2:00 P.M. \Will he be a bloated out cheeseburger addict or the slick King of the 50's & 60's , •• \ most of the material for . the film. Just wondering what Albert Goldman will think ... The Elvis craze bas finally hit television~ · \Designing · Women\ is now casting for an Elvis look alike as well as a \little;' Elvis aged 8 to 10. The show plans to devote an episode to the King ... Will he be a bloated_ out cheeseburger addict or will he be the slick king of the 50's and 60's? ..• Speaking of Elvis, thumbs up for Heartbreak Hotel, the new Eivis movie where the King is kidnapped by Charlie Schlatter as a welcome home present for his mom. Dav-id . Keith (An Officer and a Hostile Takeover ... Arnold Schwar1;enneger bas suffered a setback: filming for his new :movie, Sgt. Rock. will most likely not get lJnderway until next fall. This holds up the muscle bound actor\s other project, SciFi thriller Total ReC<all ... Finally, congratulations are in order for Cats. The musical will celebrate Ws sixth birthday at The Winter Garden Theater. Cats, on Broadway, has bad over 2500 perfonnance_s and' has been viewed by over 4 million people. 25 million ~pie worldwide... · Well that's all for now. See- you next week same Bat time, same Bat channel. GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION \bu're oorking hard for }Wr col.lege degree.. But at·graduation, · you may be one of many people com- peting for the few really good ·. · · gs. Get the most from }Wr degree ~Force . ROTC is one wi£.1 to help you get started Our train~ mg program giVes )Uti the management and leadership Sdlls you need to succeed As an Air Force office; }W'D put your.education to work in a responsible position from the very beginning. hs a great {>pportunity. Why settle k>r anything less? CAPT ROBERT KELLEA, IV . 518•216-6236 ' I

I CONCORDIENSJS October 6, 1988 , Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT: in HOROSCOPES BY \A\ LIBRA: Your social life. is rathet nil this week. If anything does occur it's not likely to be your cup of tea. Give the social whirl a rest and concentrate on academic matters. This is a good week to take care of home repair, or attend to a relative's health.· SC OR PI 0: A favorable trend beginning Monday is a prOductive stimulus for study. This weekend could get off to an exCiting start - socially speaking. Don't get caught up in your popularity. Avoid romantic flings- confusion may occur in terms of commitment SAGITTARIUS: Unusually strong feelings about a special person will make this a banner week in your love life. If you're unattached and looking. you can meet stimulating dating pr-ospects in the coming weekend. ~ CAPRICORN: Steer clear of intoxicants the early part of B tbis weekend •. for an embarassing situation may occur. But if u you play your cards right, Saturday evening coulcl attract a new S 1 admirer. · • King Sextimus ~nd son Prince Dauntless ~ AQUARIUS: Carefully assess a romantic interest This is a week to take chances - financially and romantically. Allow yourself .fD. be vulnerable, it will be worth the risk as long as you listen toyour heart and avoid other's advlce. The Egg Presents ... ''Once Upon a Mattress\ PISCES: The· early part of the week can find you at odds . with JllOSt of the rest of the world. A newcomer could arouse 1 your interest in stimulating subjects later in the week. Remain open minded. ARIES: You have ~he green light for pushing ahead with new ventures. After this week there will be no one to stand in your way. Keep up your confidence, and your persistence will pay off. By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor _ _ Perhaps when ;'Once Up<)n A Mattress\ opened in 1959 it was \one~f the merriest romps in adult m~sical comedy.\. tn · 1988 it i~ simply a very ·tame musical farce of the fairy 'tale · \The Princess and the Pea.\ The dated and limited script is not redeemed by eiiher the music or dance presented. \OnceUpQnA Mattress\ failed my most basic test of musicals; I did not leave the theatre b.ununing any of the music or wishing to mimic any of the dance moves found in ESPIA's season opener. The fault lies noi: with ESPINs production, which was competent, due to admirable performances from a talented cast. However,. because the play \Once Upon a Mattress\ is severely limited, the product of the night's entertainment was forgettable .. Certainly writers Thompson, Barer, and Fuller did add some clever twists , to the standard version of \The Princess and the Pea\ fairytale, For example, the urgency ofa royal wedding is caused by the ne,ed for a shot gun wedding between tb,e knight Sir Hatty and Lady Larke11. 1'he Queen- Aggravain (aggravation + vain)~ has declared no one in court may marry until Prince Dauntless the Drab marries. However, any perspecth:e Princess wishing to marry the Prince must first prove her royalty by passing a test devised by the Queen and her cohort the Wizard. As the twelfth Princess fails the .test the Prince whines and sighs \alack .. ,alas .. .I lack a las.\ Dauntless is not the only one disappointed by this last failure; as desperation among the knights and ladies also becomes intense, which they express in song: \no one is getting any ... no one is getting any ... younger.\ Thus with a deadline of at most nine months Harry sets out tO find a Princess fot Dauntless. What Harry finds is the Pippi Longstalking swamp Princess Winnifred. i'You can call me Fred\ says this brazen, moat-swimming, heart-of-gold princess to the maybe-finally- willing-to-get-rid-of-his- .. smothering-mother Prince. Aside from these main characters are the three stooges; the Minstrel, the Jester, and King Sextimus the Silent. The King is mute and lecherous, ~the Jester irreverent, and the Minstrel alien. The ski.ts are obvious and, when not played to excess, charming, as the three actors (Romeo, Sisti and Barrows) really perform as an · ensemble. Such a.long face. Have you tried the writing center Whitaker House Mon.-Fri.2-4:30 Sur\ .,-Thurs, 7-10 370~6058 While these twists and characterizations are clever, they are lacking in both volume and courage. Because nothing is outrageous, the play does not deviate sufficiently from the standard tale. And these deficiencies are magnified in the music and dance of \Once Upon A Mattress.\ The music is at best unimpressive. That the dancing is simplistic is most obvious in the long and bland \Spanish Panic\ scene. ·It's too bad the choreographer/director Hold- grive did not play with the costumer Schroeder's fantastic touch of the hightop sneakers. This is just one example which shows the vacillation between wishing to expand and explore, yet remaining conservative and thus safe,. which is ultimately responsible for the dissapointing \Once Upon a Mattress.\ Ifconventional, safe, feather- light musical comedy appeals to you, go to the Egg before October 15th. Admire Lady Larken (Reinhardt) and Sir Harry (Howe) who stoically keep the romantic interest alive while Dauntless (Bunce) and Winnifred (Margulies) attend to the plot. If you need meatier entertainment, wait until ESPIA's next performance to visit the Egg. Is there an issue· you are concerned about on campus? Then ... come to the A WARE meeting. Monday at 2:00 TAURUS: Sooner or Jater you're going to have an insightful hunch about a friend_ You may not wish 'to confront your feelings but trust your intuition. Expect good news in the mail. GEMINI: Emotional damage from past romances may be interferring with beginning a future with someone new. Take it slowly but do not shy away. The reward will be worth the effort. CANCER: The beginning of this week finds you under a cloud of confusion as you try to shake off the remnants of the previous week's doubts. Something may be holding you back - I.Ilake your first step to l>reak free. LEO: This week you will want to distance yourself from the mainstream of activities. This is an excellent time to visit family or just stay quietly on the sidelines and find a solution to a tension-generating private problem. VIRGO: Virgos tend to take the good things in life for granted. This week is your chance to prove to someone special how much they mean to you. A phone call will bring fmancial reward. New 8.97 WRUC- The only stationin the nation whose D.J.'s are not on steroids No. 1. 2. 3. - 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8.97 Artist Primitives Billy Bragg Ramones Siouxsie & The Banshees Psychedelic Furs Sugarcubes Shrickback Soundtrack let's Active Top Adds Album Lovely Workers Playtime Mania PeepshOw All of This And Nothing Life's Too Great Go Bang! Married to the Mob Every Dog Has Irs Day Cocteau Twins, Lloyd Cole & The Commotions, The Jack Rubies Programming Notes: Label FCA Elektra Sire Geffen Columbia Elektra Island Reprise IRS No football game will be broadcast this Saturday. so rune into 'RUC 8-10 p.m. for \The Last Laugh\ instead and remember to put the dog ouL ••••••••••••••••••••••• • CROSSGATES MALL CINEMA • e BIG PG 1:40 4:45 7:30 10:05 12:10 e • • • • • • • • • • • •• • MJONOVER. PARAOOR PG.13 1:10 4:15 7:40 10:15 COCKTAIL R 1:50 4:25 B:OO 10:30 GORILLAS IN lliE MIST PG13 2:55 4:00 7:00 10:00 DIE HARD R 12:2!i 3:40 7:10 ~0:10 AASH CALLED WANDA R 2:10 4:50 7:45 10:25 CROSSING DEL4NCEY PG 2:00 4:40 7:20 9:50 HEARTBREAK HOTEL PG 1:30 4:10 6:40 9:05 KANSAS A 12:30 12:25 12:30 12:35 12:35 11:55 I in the career • DEAD RINGER R 1:05 3:45 6:50 9:25 12:45 3:30 6:30 9:40 12:20 3:15 6:15 9:15 11:10 11:35 12:00 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • development center · • R 11:50 • WHClFRAMED e ROOERRABBIT PG 12:35 3:25 6:20 8:55 11:05 • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

Page 16 CONCORDJENSlS Oct(}b~r 6, 1988 v _.- I • f.;;\ . .tp - .·\'.' J_.... - \\'oo: ·~. ART'S & ENTERTAINMENT. Proctor's Decides the Mystery of Edwin Drood By NlNA SMlLARI It was late Sunday night, (actually early Monday morning), when I started. thinking about how I would review \Edwin Drood.\ I did not think tliat it would be difficult, but the problem was remembering anything\special about the musical. Mainly, after hearing too much about this Broadway production which played Proctor's last Thursday, Friday and Saturday evenings, I found it disappointing. on who they believe to have killed Edwin Drood. The lights go on in the theater and ·the · actors and actresses come .down to take the count of votes. The musical then contin.ues, supposedly with the ending of the audiences choice. Tllis is where the play takes an interesting turn; John Jasper opens the next scene as be admits that he is guilty of the crime, The audience \helps\ to decide which rnan is right for Rosa, as she and Edwin have already decided they are not r:i,g bt for each other, again.st their parent's proposal !!tat had been made since they were born~ The audience, believing th.at its participation in the shew was inherent to the outcome,. kept its attention intense until the anti-climatic ,end, Altho11gh it was entertain'ing, I left feeling unfulfilled because of the ending. wllich did not do this Charles Dicken's play justice, and is essentially powerless in ~he devel()pment of this musical mystery. Arts Briefs 1=\'octor's ... Schenectady, 346 .. 6204. Fri. &00 \My Gene\. Call fo:r .tickets and ,prices. Albany Public Library- Albany .. 44~-3380. Tues. 2:00, 7:30. Hitchc~k Film Festival: \S!rangers on a Train\. Admission Free. AJ:bany Institute .of History and Arf .. Albany, 463-4478. Tue8. 2:10. \Arsbile Gorky\ and \Frankenthaler\: Continuing series ori influential Ame:riean artists •. The Egg .. Albany, 443\5111. Oct. I -Oct. 15. \Once upon a Mattress\: A Musical Comedy. $9.00 for students~ Union College- College. Center. Fri. 9:00. ti Abrams and AnderSOI.l\ lmprov. Comedy~ Fri.-Sun. 7, 9, 11. \Hope and Glory\. · Wed. 7, 9, 11. \Midnight Express\. The mystery, during which Charles Dickens so thoughtlessly died before finishing, leaves its outcome up to you, the audience, to decide who murdered Edwin Drood. There were humourous lines throughout the play and the characters were endearing, yet the play's almost .slapstick humor became a bit boring. Once the audience is convin.ced, yet dissatisfied with the conclusion;· another character jumps in witll her confession. It is more of a relief than a surprise, and much more believable as her motive is better understood than that which would have driv:en John Jasper to murder his nephew. The murderess mistakes Edwin Drood for his uncle, whom she has reason to kill, so Rosa will be safe from his seduction. It turns out that the murderess is Rosa's long-lost governess, she is wise to John Jasper's intentions. This ex-governess is the one character in the play whom I truly enjoyed,- especially in her scene when she sings the \Wages of Sin\ and then proceeds to direct her attention on picking on the audience. ''Married to the Mo·b'' The play builds up a romance between the precarious John Jasper and Rosa, Edwin's fiance. The audience is primed to hiss at every mention of John Jasper; needless to say, this quickly loses its effect. John Jasper, Edwin's uncle, is made such an pbvious crime suspect that you automatically assume it would be too boring for him to be the murderer. The audience is asked to vote In the end, Edwin is not dead after all; he miraculously survives the blow he received. ERRATA By CAMERON KENNY Assoc. Arts Editcn \Married to the Mob\ is an extremely entertaining film starring Michelle Pfeiffer and Matthew Modine. Pfeiffer plays a Long Island Mafia wife who is desperately trying to escape from 'the family' and live a decent life: a life where her furniture does not have blood on it or fall off a truck onto the highw~y. Modine is an FB:I agent investigating the head of the family--Tony the Tiger Ru.sso--for the death of Pfeiffer's hu.sband, Frank the Cucumber DeMarco. Modine and Pfeiffer have the typical investigator/unknowing suspect relationship, but it's well done and entertaining. The plot on the whole isn't that unusual but it has some unexpected twists and is generally very funny. One of the funniest characters in the film. is Con.nie, Tony the Tiger's jealous and possessive wife. She is obsessed by the thought of Pfeiffer with her husband and constantly spies on them. Tony also is very funny as the . hardened Mafioso. Tony's character has a definitely whimsical edge, and he comes up with some clever Last week's student forum article incorrectly stated that the issue of gel- time had been discussed. The issue discussed actually involved the twenty-_ minute time period between classes and whether or not it should be eliminated. Theater Fest Is Coming UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORU'M PRESENTS M*A*S*H*M*A*S*H* LARRY LINVILLE . M*A*S*H*M*A*S*H\ \MAJOR FRANK BORNS\ Speaking On \M* A*S*H and More\ featuring uncut eposide of M* A *S*H or big screen Memorial Chapel 8:00 p.m .. Friday October 14, 1988 Tickets: $3.00 ' CoHege Center Box Offi-ce comments. For instance, a Mafioso disguised as a clown tries to murder him, and Tony, after killing the clown, calls his henchmen and says contemptuously, \Some clown just tried to kill me.\ Pfeiffer, too, is surprisingly good as the Long Island housewife trying ·desperately to avoid the lecherous Tony. All in all, r~Mamed ·to the Mob\ is an extremely channing and entertaining film .. Neither its characters or its plot are unique, but it is wen written and wonderfully acted. If yo~ have the opportunity, definitely check it out. A- WRUC I- EGHIRI CONIEEGI Updat.e The entries are roll tng in quickly; so hurry up and . get your designs in. (Even If it means blOwing off a midterm or two.) Remember, the deadline is Oct.ober 10th. Send all entries to Karen Schaefer, Box 1896. The winning design (and designer) will be announced on the air at 8:00pm· on Monday, October 17th. Good luck to all artists and magic marker hackers.

. CONCORDlENSIS · · OctQber 6~ 1988 . P~ge 17 CAMPUS NEWS Allie 399\ 7669 {eves.) CLUB NEWS -Love Ya. Sheri · nom hell .. for 2 beers she'll do anything. . . . ' . . . .. . \ Cam_pus Prot¢Stant Ministry I Activities . l - W·eekday m-o•rning prayer. 8:15.:8;35 AM in the 4th floor lounge of fue·cc. ... Thursday; 10/6. Bible stud:y/discussion . group from 11:30•12:45 in.CC 205: Lun.ch .. is provided for thOse on tlte I meal plan. Others please l>ring your own. · -Sun.day, 10/9. C~urcll­ hopping group goes to St. StePlleri's ·Episcopal Church. Meet in front of the CC at 9:30AM. -Sunday, 10/9. Evening wotship on campus~ 6 PM, 4th floor lounge of the CC. This wiU be a communion service. Fellowship lime will .follow. . CLA$SlFIEDS HELP WAN'JED Death Row Prisoner, Caucasian male, aged 42, ·. Ell ·· .· en, desires' oorrespondence ·with any Happy Birthday. I have the college student. Wants to form · ~ perfect gift - 'Killer' the dog! friendly relationship and I ' s .W. exchange experiences and ideaS. If interested~ write to Jim Jeffers, P,O.Box B-.38604 ·Florence, Arizona 85232. Risa. Happy Birthday! Happy -===···=····=·============~'I' Bmb~y! .... ! · 'fJl'l\~ , LoveLisa _P ... E_R_ ... _s_.o_N_. ~.......,;:_ .. ·-- ----- ..... : P.S. Congrats on LSATs & ACClO Fish, Two in one we~k?-1'1 TVto too ' __._._-----..,-------------- many? Shalom! · . Lo:ve, Lina & Jill Marni,· Wedecided·to wish you a Happy Birthday. Love Always, Steph and Lisa , Lori, Never seen as wellas with Pearl Vision!! · Lo:ve Jill, Lindsay & Lfua Ben Tomato Alberto! Con affelto, Carie, Cristina Thanks. for the 7 best months of my life! . T,T, & A, The BoyNe;x:tDoor Happy lOOth BirthdaY Tri Delta Ccming Soon! I_· Lori & Denny, JOBS IN l\USTRALIA Immediate opening for Men .and ... Women. $11,000 to $60,000.o Con.struction, 'Manufacturing, Secretarial Work;, Nurses, Engjneering, Sales. Hundreds of Jobs Listed. ! Call Now! 206-736.,7000,. Ext. .Josh & his embarassing questions on \Mark My Words\ I've never had more fun with an injury!! You're the Best!· . Love Always, Jill \ 1078A,; Happy Birthday Mami, Beto ' Lester- I wonder if the Leather will be spotted from across the room? : Dear Deltas - • I Thanks .for all your support last weekend It meant alot. T,K,C,L,D Denny- Potter thanks you for the infonnational sessi()n. Now. we are more AWARE! I never .... animal disease. Thanks for driving. Kill Twerp- Hard day? Pin& Eye. Bagel Bum & even ahospital run! Cheer, up-:- you'll be oby soon. Love, Killer Lick the cream off ycur partner's nose! But, watch out for zits! · SDT- 1 House meetings are improving - next we we'll find cut what's beneath d1e sequins! €RUISE SHIPS Risa, andWendy! I Now Hiring Men and Women. Happy 21st. You'.-e the Summer & Career .. Greatest! Opportunities (Will Train). Excellent Pay. Plus World Travel. Hawaii. Bahamas, <;aribb~n. Etc. Call Now! ·206-736-7000, Ext 1078C. Sitter Wanted for 9 year old child. Occ~sional work. Call ........ Love Lindsay Risa,. Now you don't have to be Jill or Sue anymore. You can legally partyU Get psyched. Happy 21st.!!! BLOOM COUNTY ...--~,__ ___ _, PIICKR6/IV6 .... Love, The Delta House Rm 265 Tri-Pelt, Why Are All the Phones in ZBT Ringing?! C()ming Soon To a Fraternity Party Near Ya Wendy- The Psycho Queen Ouija board anyone? Maybe we can find out who is toming our 1 · lights on and off. - Tiffany, Jane, Judy, Sue & Lori: The 'BOG' is calling!! we must resume happy-hours ... after all, we are SENIORS! Berke Breathed How can it be that we were both \Occupied\ from 3:00 AM - 5:30 AM while 300 miles apart? This is getting weird!! You are the best roommate. ElF!! Road trip to Buffalo, anyone?? Ellen, 20 years old, you're still not legal yet, youngster. RR E. B. October 6, is the day. Happy Birthday to all of us, Oscar. · Rob Thanks to Debbie Lucey for her relentless dedication, support and energy in making the American Pictures experience possible for us. I Jane, Mel & Denise '. Mandy- Victoria's Secrets for West Point and wire cutters for Box \X\? -'lil Sis Karen- \ So far, So good babe. You I seem to be fitting in quite well 1 .. so no more mug shots to my friends! Janice Bean: Happy Birthday - I guess we won'trent out your bed - tonight! -GI&Care Thanks Prof. Butterstein and the Bio Club for a Great Whale Watch! Good Luck Ruggers!! Kick Some _SS! . Attention Union - Beware of the fox with. the rearend fettish! Moi, Those late nights and early morning excursions really have been fun. Remember the ears are key. Love, Pebbles Julie & Alyn, Tell m~ about your job! To Bruce: My husband is out of town this weekend - come to my mansion ru:d have some tea? V. Sincerely, Cathy (E.M.) UCRA- Hope you're holding up under the new management. Keep the qi (chee) till I getback. Miss you all. Love, Louhuasheng (That's Chinese for Peanut) (That's Paummi in case you forgot.} Risa, Happy2lt Remember NGNL T! Vodka shots are on me! Love ya lots Steffer To Vicky, Jen, Andrea, Kate and Laura: R-R-R-RALPH!UI Love,Choom

eONCORl)JBNSIS October 6. 1988 w ~ CJ ~ t; w z w 5 Ill· ~ ~ a: U5 c. c. c( ~ ~ c. \\ \~ .. ,f.: i ' Ben Johnson savorinQ a victory hours before it was nullified. Mouthing Off With ANDY BRAVER and ROB RAPHAEL With tlte Games of the XXIVth Olympiad behind us and all of the medals handed out (and in some cases revoked), it gives the sporting world a chance to look back at the accomplishments and embarrassments of the 17 -day · spectacle. The Seoul Olympics were attended by 160 nations, the greatest number in the history of the games, and for the first time since·-1976, in Montreal, both the United States and the Soviet Union were present. But from the opening ceremony to the conclusion of the men's marathon, a dark cloud hovered over South Korea's capital city. The threat of disruption of the games by North Korea was cause enough for the United States to send an aircraft carrier task force to the shores of Seoul. Threats of riots ·by South Kore~n students opposeO. to the presence of Amerian servicemen in their country also contributed to uneasy feeling about Games officials. They .surely did not want Internatinal Olympic Ce:mmittee (I.O.C.) then stripped Johnson of his medal and declared his race illegal, theteby nullifying his record because his test for performance enhancing chug use came up positive. The discovery of Johnson's cheating was not the first in ·these games, however. The Bulgarian weight-lifting team packed up its bags and returned h,ome after three of its members, all of whom had won gold medals, tested positive for, steroid use. The medals were revoked, and a feeling of shame descended over the team and all of Bulgaria. A total of 10 athletes were declared ineligible because of drug use. But out of a total of 10,000 competitors, this percentage is alm.ost negligible. That is, of course, if all of the testing that was conducted was correct weight division, American fighter Roy Jones lost a 3-2 decision to Korea's .Park Si- Hun. Jones appeared to win the fight easily, but the decision went against him. The decision was termed 'disgraceful' by a veteran boxing judge from Britain.· Many people· felt that in order to avoid another confrontation in the ring, that the judges rigged the decision in favor of the Korean fighter. . another incident like the terrorist att~ck on Israeli athletes in Munich during the As if cheating and threats of violence were not enough of a controversy for the Koreans to stand, there was also an attack on a boxing referee from New Zealand who was jumped in the ring because a South Korean fighter lost a close decision. The coaches of the Korean fighter climbed into the ring and started throwing punches of · their own at the referee. And as security guards were escorting him out of the arena, additional Korean officials started kicking the referee. Needless to say, the referee feared his life, and fled the country as fast as the Bulgarians. Through aU of the controversy, though, there were many performances put in by these great athletes that are worth a second look. American swimmer Matt Biondi won a total of seven medals, five of which were gold. East German swimmer Kristin Otto won six gold medals. Tile Soviet Union men's basketball team upset the United States in the semi- finals and then defeated Czechoslovakia for the gold. American sprinter Florence Griffith Joyner won three golds and a silver, and set two new world records along the way. Diver Greg Louganis became the first male .diver ever to win two gold medals in successive games. Anp Carl Lewis, though he did not equal his four gold performance in Los Angeles in 1984, still won two golds and a 'silver medal. 1972 games in which a group of Israeli athletes were murdered. Potential <lisruption was not the only distraction-- cheating by medal winning athletes was also discovered; Canada's Ben Johnson, who last year set the worldrecordof9.83 seconds in the 100 meter dash tested positive for :~teroid use after he broke his record and- won the gold medaf in the final of the same race in Seoul. The This was a mad scene, one that should never happen in any sporting event, especially the Olympic Gam~s. In the boxing final of the 15.6 pound As the world now .sets its sights on Barcelona, Spain and the 1992 Summer Olympics, we can look back at the trials and tribulations of these past Games. Thmugh all of the controversy and turmoil, the athletes continued to perform in the true spirit of the Olympics. The Games of Seoul, although lacking glitter, gave us many moments that will always be remembered. Homecoming '88 October 14, 15, 16. SVPPORT , UNION ATHLETICS . <!tnncnr~fensis SPORTS A Quick Report on Fast Feet BY X\C T&AM · \Heltlooooo Union College! This is 'shortcake:~ reporting for Concordy news. rm-here with 'Do-it-up' · at the scene of the Hamilton/Union cross-country confrontration. How do you think this. race will go, 'Do- it'up'? · · ''Well, Shottcake, the competition looks tough and · the air is hu~d, but I'm: confident in the abilities of . these fiery un.ion women. · (BANG) And there•s the gun!\ \Well they're off to a good start, considering Ed's philosophical poem that he recited before the race.\ \Yes I agree. With all those references to death, do you think that was foreshadowing?\ \Only time will tell. Wow, here they come towards the finish already! And there's the token freshman, Sandy Arnselment, crossing the line in fourth place, Union's top finisher. Let's see what she has to say. Sandy, how do .... \ \Leave me alone!!\ \I guess she's not in the mood to talk right now, and understandably · so. Maybe she'll have a comment later. Look! Here comes Jen Reagan across the line in eleventh place.\ \Jert do you have a comment for your fans back home?\. :Just for the record.,.I'm not a senior, I'm not injured, and . I'm not a captain!\ \Well thank you, Jen. And now c-oming in third for Union ·is senior captain, Sherri Cargile. Sherri, -how did you feel out there?\ •:1 felt good, but the race was a mile or two too short; I was · just getting warmed up.\ ''Scoring fourth and fifth for Union are Meg Parsons and Kara Merrill~ respectively~. Meg,, what did you ·think of yo.ur fir$t cross-country adventure?\ .. \Ctoss-countty gives new meaning to the word pain , even to a 400 M runnet!\ ''Thank you, Meg. Here's a group of Union's sixth~ seventh, and eighth pJace finishers .. AnY comments for the subscnbers, Lynette?\ · \Pant pant •..• no co:nnnent .•. pant pant.\ \How about you, Denise?\ \Yes Shortcake, the sprinters really did enjoy the. race today, even if they won~t admit it. And I think the team did very well, considering half of it was under the influence of Mother Nature.\ \Clarre anything to add?\ . \SMITH ·HOUSE, please, we need your support!'' \Sue Lyon, any ·cornlllents about this scorching October weather?\ \It's warm, doubly so when you have to run!\ \I can't deny that. The heat didn't seem to slow down Tracy Reynolds, today'~ official cheerer. She said she had a 'really good time~· .Let's take a moment now to talk to .the coach and ~ssistantcoach, Russ and Maris:r Ebbets. Ris?\ · \I think they did a fine job for such a young team, and Shortcake, you're doing a fme job leading them!.\ ~ \And you, Russ?'' \Sandy Meg, and Sherri ran particularly well today; I was pleased.\ \Yes yes, I agree. It was a fine showing by the women!\ \Well that's about it until next week when the x .. c hosts the Union Invy at Saratoga on Friday. Until then; this is Shortcake.\ \And Do-it-up, signing off.'' OPENlN:G CEREMONIES . FOR SPECIAL OL YMPI.CS TO BE HELD IN THE FIELDHOUSE Circle K is sponsoring the opening cerem.onies for the Special Olympics on Friday, October 7, 1988 from 7-9 pm in the field house. Volunteers are heeded in · setting up and organizing the event for this program. If you are interested in working with Circle K and Special ·Olympics please contact Jeanne Bouchard at 381·-3933 Don'F Forget: PROMOTIONAL DAY· is today, Thursday, October 6. Homecoming T -Shirts will debut in the College Center all day long, along with free buttons and popcorn for everyone! ·-

........ --.---. ........... ____ ....,._,....,.....__.._ _______ ..-.;,C..:.O_N;_;,C;_;O;,..;.R..;..D--· l..:..:E;.;..N.;.:S,;,;,.lS::::._O..:...c:..:.t.:..:ob:..:.r!..:..r_e::.::,--=.:19:..:8:..:8~ Page 19 ----------.....,......-~- -~-- Blood, Sweat and ' ' Tears at Siena By DAVE MORIUSON -, Sports Editor Last Saturday the~ Union RO.B. Cox fell to their first defeat at the hands of 'Siena College. The game was one of great importance with bragging rights and a league championship-· ·on the line. Both .teams went into the game with higb expectations as both Union and Siena were undefeated. ·many grueling hits, c·arefuUy planned. plays, and forty minutes ·th.e score remained just as it had\begun o-o~ ' The second half, ho-wever, would be .a differen~ story. Union seemed to have ·the life knocked out .of them after a series of negative \events~\ The referee called many penalties on Union for illegal pro~edure. For instance rushing the kicker when :he \kicks the ball - The match proved to meet through the mark\ and the expectations of any sports \pushing the opposing serum entlursiast who might be too far over the mark\ were watching because it would be plays this team was taught to the team who sweat and bled be -legal,- and in the past the most that would win the winning strategy. war! Union was again let down In the first half both teams when eight-man Chris ~lleridan came out on frre. It was a·oack was injUJ:ed and shaken lip on a and forth game, Union tried to play. Althou-gh Sheridan score but w·as stopped remained in the game he numerous tiines down clos·e obviously could not play to his nem:. the Siena trY zone and the., full potential. Minor inJuries same went for -Siena. After . to other players and lack of conditioning seemed to also contribute to a settlmg by The Huns allowing Sit;lna to sc~re late in the .game. Siena gpt a penalty kkk good for 3 ·!><lintS and soon after scored a try and conversion making it 9-0. Although it was late in the game, a very fmst:rated U nio11 did not give up. They drove the ball right back at Siena and attempted to be the first a.nd only team to score on Siena. It bad appeared that a U nio11 penalty kick was good, yet the judges ruled it wide. Siella would have another kickfor three more points and Union lost 12~0. Even with this loss U ni()n may still fmd themselves at tile playoffs. If Albany beats Siella in the final game of their season and The Huns win tlieir remaining two league games they will go to Buffalo; .. Heacls high Union R.G.B. Cox. Ws not over yet! U. C. Field Hockey On a Roll • • • By FIELD HOCKEY TEAM The 1988 Union College Field Hoekey Team. is having their most successful season since the start of the program in 1985, 'The team's most . _ recent .victories over Oneonta State and Vassar Colleg.e boosted their record to 8-0. The Lady Dutchmen's 3-2 vistory over Oneonta's Red Dragons was their first win over this powerful team in .11 years. The spark of Union·~ offense was set off by Lynn Hyde's gocil on a shot from the top of the circle in the first half. In the second half the agressiveLady Dutchmen came back on the field to score two more goals to achieve a 3-2 victory over the Driigons. Dani~lle Lavigne and Carolyne Hardy combined efforts to score Union'.s second goal, and the. third was scored by Alison Pallotta and assisted by Carolyne :Hardy. T·he · lady Dutchmen continued their winning .streak on Saturday by defeating Vassar College 2-0 for their 8th win of the season. (}()alie J en Ly<;m recorded her fifth shutout of the season, needing only one save; While f<>nvards Courtney Lynch ·and Heidi Groener provided a strong t\; i _!J;, ~ ~H\ II . offense with their goals in the second half. The strong Lady Dutchmen are finally coming into their own. Come support thell! <>n October 13 at 3:30 and w;atcll them defeat Williams. Y <JtJ won't be disappointed!! DO YOU WANT TO BE INVO:LVED .AT UNION? Apply for one of· these student Forum Committees. CONDUCT COMMI\TTEE A.A.C. WRITING BOARD '·I . Applications are available in the Student Activities Office, Room 408, College. Center. GET INVOLVE'D-. APPL V FOR A COMMITTEE! I atnncnrhitnsls SPOR SPORTS ACCO-RDING TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ By the time this article appears, both major league baseball playoff series will have taken shape. If one word characterizes expectations for the American League series, it is f'rreworks. Both teams have potentially volatile offenses. The Oakland A's are led by the . most offensive player in the ·league, Jose Canseco. He is a ·Jock to win the MVP, having set a new stan<Jard by becoming · the first player to have 40- ho:t11e Ill11S and 40 stolen bases in one season. The Boston Red Sox have baseball's best hitter, Wade Boggs, and the highest team batting average in. baseball. However, these teams' offensive capabilities will cancel each other out. The series will be decided by pitching. The Bosox have an edge_ in starting pitching, but the A's have a Stronger bullpen. Many of the A's are former Red Sox. This could be a big incentive for these players and should help stoke emotions whictrshould run high in this s·eries. Canseco has also provided some spark by commenting that Mike Greenwell, Boston left fielder, should have hit at least 30 home runs because he plays half of his games in a \bandbox''. This is not only an insult t~ Greenwell, but ·the entire Red Sox. organization. One advantage for the Bosox is that they have more playoff ·experience. Another is their \bandbox\. My prediction, · Boston in six games. In the National Leaglle., the ·NY Mets dominated their . regu-lar season meetings, winning 1'0 out of 11. On · paper, they are two evenly matched teams. However, when they meet on the field, the . Mets simply outplay the Dodgers. The Mets' experience should . be a big factor in this series. Their pitching kept them in .many games this season when their offense was struggling. Probable NL MVP, the Mets' Darryl Strawbeny, provided tlte Mets with the margin of victory in many of the games that they won by scores of 1-0 or 2-0; which seems to have occured more often than tile . average Met fan would like. The Dodger's MVP candidate, Kirk Gibson, has provided the Dodgers with the mental toughness to once again become contenders, bat they will need more than that to overcome the jinx that seems to have been placed on them by the Mets. Likely NL Cy Young winner, the Dodger's Oren Hershiser, recently .set a record for consecutive innings without being scored <>n. This la,st defeat was against the Mets. Look for his good luck streak to end, and those of yoll who bleed Dodger blue, stock· up on band aids. Mets in five. Scoreboard Football Union 12 Alb~y State 28 Union Union Field Hockey 3 Oneonta 2 Vassar Women's. Soccer 2 0 Union 2 Skidmore 0 Men's Soccer Union 0 Middlebmy 1 Men's Rugby Union 0 Siena 12 SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

Page 20 CONCORDIENSJS Octo/ler 6, 1988 :I:· (f) a: :f UJ ::J (f) fii 0 6 if· Albany drops Outchmen to 1·3. October6, 1988 Albany Puts Union's lights Out By ANDREW SEEWALD Albany State lit up the scoreboard early, the lights went out on the field midway through the game, and at the end, Union was left in the dark with a 28-12loss. With· 11:52 remaining in the third quarter, a power failure at University Field delayed the game for almost a half an hour. But apparently the break was not long enough to allow the Dutchmen to figure out how to get the ball in the end zone against a Great Danes' defense that allowed Union plenty of yardage between the twenties, but stiffened up at the crucial moments. Union finally did break Albany's defense when quarterback Brett Russ, a freshman making his second straight start since Jim Poirier was sidelined with shoulder trouble, found Horace Griffin in the end zone. The touchdown pulled the Dutchmen to within 28-12, but when Union went for two, the conversion failed. In fact, the story of the game for the Dutchmen was that they failed to convert.. Union dominated the game statistically, amassing almost 150 more yards of · t.otal offense, running over one-third more offensive plays, and compiling ten more first downs than the Danes. But when Albany was successful in moving the ball, they moved it all the way into the end zone. The scoring started when Albany intercepted a Brett Russ pass and returned it to the Union 47 yard line. One 30 yard pass and a 17 yard nm later, the Danes were on top 7- 0, less than 3 minutes into the game. For their second touchdown of the game, the Danes capitalized on great field position and quarterback Pat Ryder capped a quick 27 yard drive with the first of his three touchdown runs. Ryder fmished the game leading all ruiners with 103 yards. With the score 14-0. the momentum changed. Union drove the ball down the field and on a third down-and-goal play, tight-end Mario DiLoreto was wide open in the end zone. Unfortunately. the pass was under thrown and though Jason Krause did put Union on the board with a field goal, by then Union had turned their momentum into frustration. Union is now 1-3. They will have this Saturday off and then entertain RPI on the I :>til, Homecoming Weekend. The Engineers defeated WPI 26-1 on Saturday to improve their record to 2·1. Their only loss came at tlte hands of Albany State. RPI will host Iona this weekend ... WR Matt Smith returned Saturday performing as a receiver, but not a kick returner. Smith had 2 catches for 21 yards .... Mario DiLoreto had the biggest receiving day of the seasonfor Union with 12 catches for 127 yards. UNIOH-ALIIAin' STATE BOX SCoRE Union 0 3 3 8 ·12 Abany St 14 1 o 1 -281 First: A-McNell17 run (Chedllle kick); A- Ryder 2 run (Checltlie kick) Second: A· Ryder 17 run {Chechlle kick); U- FG Krause 32 Third: U-FGKrause 38 Fourth: A-Ryd-ei 1 run (Chechlie kick); U· Griffin 14 piiSS•fiOITl Russ (conversion faHSilo First Cow,. Rushel-yarda Passing-yard& Pass96 Fumblss·loet Penalties-.yarcls Urllon Ahny 23 13 38-138 43-243 280 91 2El-54-3 5-1 5-2 5-2 2·1. 11~91 1()-65 l- X-Country Chases Hamilton BY THE FLYING PANCAKES After a moving introduction on the subject of death by team philosopher, Edmund \Rhino\ Rothenberg, the men's cross country team was baffled as they got off the bus at Hamilton College. It took them only a short amount of time to realize the meaning behind his apropos lecture. Despite all runners finishing; it was a close call for some. The team had hoped that the extra boost given by runners flying up from New York City, driving over from Albany Law, as well as a strong cheering section of family and friends would help the Running Dutchmen give Hamilton a run for their money. However, high humidity, hellish heat, and hyped-up Hamilton helped hamper Union. The top perfonnance by a Union runner wa~ turned in by Jim \I object\ Le Brou; with a time of 31:22.6, placing seventh overall. Rounding out the top five for Union were: \Georgeil Michael Martinez, ninth with 32:07 .?j Jim _ \Racewalke:r\ Campoli, fourteenth at 33:50.6; Dave \Spleen\ Steen, sixteenth in 33t53 .• 9; and Dough \Jet-lag\ Martocci, seventeenth with 34:49.2. Stf'()ng performances were also turned in by Hans Schwarz, Rich Zembeck; Bob Townsend, Bob Lindybetg, and· Edmund Rothenberg (all closely chased by the Grim Reaper). This Friday at 4:00, the Running Dutcllm.en will host their first meet of the year at scenic Saratoga in the Union Invitational and due to strong student sup.port (Right? Right?) among other factors, the team expects a memorable performan~e. Next week, Rhino. read us something more inspirational. Booters bow to Middlebury Men's Soccer Shows Improvement By CARL R. FR1EDR1CH, JR. kick. The poanding culminated in McTirigue's being kicked. out of the game after he was O.K. let's face it. The men's . classlessly kicked in the head soccer team has put in more · while making a save. than their share of s-ub-,par It seemed that McTaigue's performances lately. And let's luck, which included two shots admit that the offense's that hit the crossbar, had run production chart resembles the out. Fortunately, though, the one shown by Acme Products injury was not a serious one, in Bloom County (flailing). and he is expected to return to .And let's further conclude that action this week. Adam Paget . the Dutchmens 1-0 loss to fmished the game; making two Middlebury last week silently sm<:K>tll saves. extended the winless streak to The Du.tcltmen never gave four. Don't worry. Be happy: up, even after the late second It's a long season. half goal. Fine play came from The Dutchmen had one game the whole team, with Mark last week, and in a hard fought Nadeau, Mike Kijak, Dave match, bowed to Middlebury. Haas,. and freshman Jem The team played strong from Sollinger st~ding ~ut . start to finish, even the forward Even Wbtle losmg, agatn line (!). They went blow for withoU:t scoring a goal, the blow with the Middlebury Middlebury game proved that eleven, and evert had the better things are looking up for the of them through much of the Dutchmen hooters. 'Theil' game g~me. Denny McTaigue is more settled, confident and (continually my choice for enjoyable to watch. There are athlete of the week) was still nine games remaining, and fabulous in goat, making saves if the current level of play is which only he has been kilown · maintained, they should come to make. He made several away with a few victories. If crucial saves while taking a the effort shown in the severe physical beating from Middlebury game continues, the Middlebury strikers. Their they might even make -the lone goal came on a penalty playoffs. SPORTS SCHEDW,E / FRIDAY 1017 Cross Country vs. Saratoga SATUIIDAYl0/8 Soccer vs. Plattsburgh ·JV Soccer vs. Oneonta Women's Soccer vs.Wells Field Hockey vs. Siena Volleyball vs; Amherst Tourny SUNDAY 10/9 JV Football vs. Middleburg :MONDAY 10/10 JV Soccer vs. Hartwick TUESDAY 10/11 Women's Soccer vs, Williams Volleyball vs. Williams & North Adams WEDNEDAY 10/12 Men's Soccer vs. Siena 4:00 2:00 11:00 1:00 1:00 10:00 2:00 4:00 3:30 7:00 3:30 Away Away. HOME Away Away Aw~y Away Away HOME HOME HOME

Vol. CXVII, No. 4 · Schenectady, New York October 13, 1_988 JUpl.omu The Business of Tuition . . By FIONA S.HUKRI Editor-in-Chief Union;s tuition is $12,175. Vice-President of Finance and Administration John Hauser suspects that the price will rise more than 7% next year. When asked if the Administration was concerned · that a Union edu'Cation could become too expensive,. Ha.user responded, \We will get concerned when our cost increase is significantly more than the cost-of-living increase.\ Since 1985 the cost-of-living index has increased at an average rate of 3.45% a year {acc<>tding to a graph .appearing .in the October 11 iss11e of the New York Times),.. while Union's tuition bas increased at rate of 9% a year over the last three years. Vice-President of Institutional Plannin;g' Jack Maranville is quick to point out, though, that while the cost of living skyrocketed in the 1970s. tuition for most colleges virtually remained the same. College tuition is, in essence. trying. to catch up. \It's nof realistic to expect ·the price not to rise; we are a business,\ states Hauser. He · estimates that 60% of the college costs are \people costs\ tilition to faculty salaries may not be that clear-cut. ·Union regttlarly compares itself with a group of 32 other colleges, including Colgate, Hamilton, St. Lawrence, Skidmore, Amherst and Williams, among_ ~ c.:Jtllers. In the 1985-86 acltdemic year, the College compiled a \Compensation Comparison.\ Salaries for Union full professors ranked \It's not realistic to 25, for associate professors expect the price not to ran:ked 15, and for assistant rise. We are a business.\ pr&fessors ranked 22 out of.the -Vice President of . - 32 colleges listed. This was Finance and after the college had increased Administration tuition 9% ftom the previous John Hauser scb.ooLyear. (i.e. salaries). \This cost must rise at least as much as the cost of living.'' Dean of, Students Joseph Mammola explained Union's price in part; \We are trying to attract quality faculty.\ However, the relation of 1 00% of tuition does not go _ directly towards faculty salaries, however. Tuition covers roughly 2/3 of the college's costs; the remaining 113 is met through grants and· endorsements: \I think Union. is a. bargain;\ states Hauser, \many colleges that charge m~te for tuition also have high_er endowments.\ ·When asked whether what other \similar\ colleges charge for tuition is taken into account when setting Union's. Hauser responded that it is not, • . • a Cable News Network report estimated that 48% of college~ bound seniors think tuition is an indicath>n of quality. noting that the college's budget is ,prepared for submission to the Board of Trustees by January, while many colleges don't release their bu~gets until . March. \There is no question that we compare ourselves to other college.s,\ states Cathy Mullaney. a full member of the Board of Trustees and a member of the Budget and Audit Committee. \It is a formal part of our budgeting process, but we don't do it first. After we decide on tuition, we put ourselves on the chait to make sure that we're still reasonable.\ Maranville concurs with Mullaney. \We survey other colleges 'after the fact' every year.\ But he stresses that \other college's tuitions are not taken into account when setting ours.\ On October ll, a Cable News Network report estimated that 48% of college-bound seniors think tuition is an indication of quality. Hauser recognizes that there is a _ segment of the population that does relate quality to price, but doesn't believe that Union sets its .price with that in mind. The general public's sentiment may not be entirely ignored. \The need to make sure that we are perceived as a qllality product to our Continued 011 page 4 Schedule of Events for Homecoming 1988 Pages 10-11 Soap of.the- \Week This scathmg review of. Sports Women's field hockey continues ten-game winning streak. All My Children is perhaps the most comprehensive study of a soap opera Page 14 For additional sports cover-age see

· Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988\ ·NEWS A.NALYSIS The Brawley Case arr1 . . ,._ . . r1 TTl T T . n l fYJTm:rf:' 1 • 1 t ( 1 1 .. · t 1 1 ·I • .,.·r.~ r .... l ~: · I l L' l I . 11 J ·I T ,.,. ·;.. > '. ::, .ldl. iii 1 s r ·• . - .... ·1 lu I I 1' r.,l\· ·a ; I \I·,'· ·r 11 r 1 r .. 1 r ; • .. a · ': ·; . -- a •·• ,, .aa:.a·•l''\'~ - ~!.... v --. ·:;:'/.·~-~~-- .· .. ,, .-. -. * • . ' ~ ... - ···-til Plnnoch-io Revisited· By BRUCE HAY, JR. In the spring of this year, I wrote an article about the Tawana Brawley case. 'For those of you who are not aware, those of you who have not watched television or read a paper in about a year; Tawana Brawley is a high school student in Wappingers Falls, New York. After Thanksgiving of last year, she was found in a garbage bag~ with racial slurs scribbled on IJ.er body and feces smeared on ·llet as well. She claims that site was abducted by six white men and raped. Since that time Rev. AI Sharpton has\ come to her aid\ to assist in legal matters. Just recently, the grand jury finally dismissed her case; in effect saying that she was lying. One would think tllat is a pretty big accusation considering the American legal system, bat not in this case. Tawana refused to t~stify at the arging of Rev. Sharpton, Tawana's mother, Glenda Brawley, bid in a church in New York City even though she had been subpoenaed t.o testify also at the urging of Rev. Sharpton, and Sharpton and Tawana's ,two attorneys could produce no physical, medical, or any other form of evidence. The fact thatthe case went on for eleven montbs astounds me. What sbould happen is that Rev: Shm:pton be made to pic~ up the legal and other fees incQiredby New York State and Dutchess CoUiity which to date amass to wen over $500,000. The American l~gal syste91, at least I think, was created to pr-otect the innocent. Well what happens to all the people that Rev. Sharpton dragged through the mud? Various people of all walks of life in New York and nationwid.e were accused of racial Climes unthinkable even · in the sixties. Countless .people \displaced _ from- the '. normar l~gal flow when this if some other woman is truly case. had to be solved raped, or a racially motivated immediately or it was . sure crime does occur, who will proof that all .of Dutchess believe. them. I guess l Would County and New York State have to accuse Rev. Sharpton were racist. Tawana Brawley of .being the only criminal in herself was just a pawn; she as the case since be willingly I said previously was the true obstructed justice and probably vicmn .. I find it bard to believe perpetrated a fe.w other offenses _ that someope would willingly tllat would take forever to list: smear. themselves with feces. In a c.ountry as great as Somethin'S had to have America, one .would think happened to her but we will racism would not be a never· know because. of the household w.ord, bOt it will. be glory ... seeking aspirations of .as long. as people like Rev. Rev. Shatpton. Wbafhappens. . Sbarpton--perpetuate tensions th~t do. not really exist. SPAA Urges Cognizance and -Involvement Before Electi·on Day . . ' ... ' ' By DON V ALERlO question-and~answ.er session Copy ·Editor will follow . .'. The entire Becoming well ·informed is like .. travelling on a celestial road, Now is an excellent time , to start your own journey. The presidential election will be . held next month.. Become coU~ge community i·s --------..------------------_;__._ ______ ........,_--:_ ·· knowledgeai:He abolJ.t the . strongly . en~ouraged to attend tllis . critical event. Jn addition, an information table ·will be set .up in the College Center :on October 17- 19 from 11 a.m. - 1 p.m . Campaign .literature from both parties will be distributed. The VP Debate ·and the Quayle Factor By JED FERDINAND himself and the late president. Yet, the most important aspect of Bentsen's success was tllat Lloyd Bentsen won ~the he appeared ,presidential. He debate between he and Dan demonstrated the same sort of Quayle last Wednesday evening mature appeal that Reagan did in 0I)laha, Nebraska. There is during his debates in 1980 and no doubt about it. Bentsen was · 1984. Thus, tile panel did not strong, competent, and even need to question Bentsen;s first looked presidential. Quayle was decision shollld he ever become consistently on the defensive and looked inexperienced. As the evening dragged on, it became increasingly apparent to the American public tllat Dan Quayle did not belong on the same stage as Lloyd · Bentsen, and that he certainly did not belong in the White. House. Lloyd Bentsen showed a great sense of style and eloquence during tile debate with Dan Quayle. He evoked an appearance of reliability, in contrast to Quayle's youth. This reliability proved vital to Bentsen's success throughout the debate, as he escaped much of the scrutiny that fell upon young Mr. Quayle. Therefore, when Bentsen admitted his error in forming the $10,000 Breakfast Club, it did not hurt his image, as the American people perceived him to be trustworthy and above that sort of illegal activity. Bentsen managed to control the flow of the debate throughout the evening. He pounded away at the Reagan Administration • s economic policies: \If you let me write $200 billion worth of hot checks every year, I could give you an illusion of prosperity too.\ He also delivered the night's most demoralizing blow,. \Senator you're no Jack Kennedy,\ i9-- opposition to Quayle's comparison of Bush's selection of . Quayle as a running mate has been an embarrassment to the Republican Party througbout the campaign. president: there was no doubt that it would be a sound one. Dan Quayle failed to dispel any doubts about his ability to fulfill the duties of President, or for· that matter vice- president, during the debate last Wednesday night. Quayle attempted to help his own cause by blurring reality. as most candidates often do. Ther-e were instances, however, when he simply did not tell the truth. Quayle claimed to be \strong\ on the environment (a statement which drew great laughter from. the crowd), when, in reality, he has voted against such important measures as pesticide controls and E.P .A. penalties for polluters. He said that poverty in tllis country has not gone up during the Reagan administration, when in fact it has gone up ten percent. And, in response to claims about his own . experience, Quayle remarked· that he had been to *' ... Geneva many times as we were hammering out the l.N.F. treaty/' wllen in fact he has never been there as a member of an official delegation. Furthermore, Quayle was evasive throughout the entire debate: on three occasions Quayle managed to avoid the question of what he would do as president. He was simply 11ot charismatic, and he appeared uncomfortable answering questions of substance. Quayle attempted to portray an image of himself as an average, hardworking- American: \My grandmother says that you can do anything you want to in life if you just set your mind to it, and go io work.\ This comes from a man whose parents bouglit his way into law school, and out of the Vietnam WWf,. After watching tile debate, most Americans were left wondering bow Geor.ge Bush could have picked Dan Quayle in the first place .. Bush's selection of Quayle as a running mate has been an embarrassment to the Republican Party throughout the campaign. Should the Republicans win the upcoming election, J. Danforth Quayle would. then become America's embarrassment. As Tom Brokaw realized, the debate was not about issues; it was essentially a test to deterttrine if the two candidates were fit to become president, should the need ever arise. In this respect. Dan Quayle failed miserably. The American people were left witll the sense that Dan: Quayle would be an inadequate leader. When Quayle · was asked what would be the first thing that he would do as president should a. tragedy occur to George Bush, he remarked that he would pray for himself and for America. Believe me, should Dan Quayle ever become president, I will pray for America as w~ll. · candidates. Don't vote for Pukalds just :because he has a novel sounding :qarne; don't cast your. ballot for Bush only on the basis of his increasing popul;¢ty. This election will directly affect our futures for · the next .four yearS. Therefore, cast your vote only afte·r .malting a judicious and informed . decision. To promote political enlight~rtment and tO help you in your decision,. S.P.A.A., Students for Political Awareness and Action, will be sponsoring a know-your- candidates night on Wedp.esday, October 19 at 7:30 p.m:in the College Center atrium. Speakers representing both the ·ausll and Dukakis campaigns will be present ~o give a - general overview on the convictions of the candidates and on the party platforms. A · Although S.P.A.A. aspires that all Union students will become involved with the 1988 election; we are not an organization concerned only with political issues. Environmental, :recycling, volu.nteer, and on-campus ventures are pl~ned for the near futute. We are a non- partisan group of concerned students which always enthusiastically welcomes new members, fresh ideas, and innovative suggestions. Any interested student wishing to learn more about S.P.A.A. shoald attend our weekly. Sunday meeting at 8:30p.m. in room. 41.0 of the College Center. , BECOME INFOR:MED ••• GET - JNVOL VED ... MAKE A DIFFERENCE! SPAA ·presents:· KNOW YOUR CANDIDATES Wed.~ October 19, 1988 7:30p.m . . College Center Atrium· Mich~el Saccocio (RJ and~. Donald Ackerman (D) D1scuss Bush & Dukakis' general platforms. · Questions & Answers to follow: Be an Informed Voter... . Get to Know Your Candidates · Sponsored by : S tudents fo.r Political Awareness. & A ction - not funded by the Student Forum - -10 %Off-. To Students & Faculty NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE Expert Auto Repair • 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • Goodyear • Kelly Springfield. 1501 Balltown Rd. Schenectady, NY 12309 ,, ' ''

,, ' '' 'l I I '' CONCORDTENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 3 ~resident andi~rs. Mo:rris Prepare for Official Visit To Far East President and Mrs. Morris ,Qy ·1\E VIN W. IRLAND For .the first time in the five year history of Union's formal excha:nge program with. Kansai- Gaidai University in Japan, Preside11t and Mrs. Morris will officiaily visit the University. The trip, at the invitation of Kans ai- Gaidai offiCials, comme:morates the twentieth annive:rsary of · Kans.ai's ''. • ·• tli:is gives. me the ~opportunity to assess whether the expansion of the J>r'()gram is appropri~te or not ... -'~ -~esidentJohn Mortis . · Internauonal Stu:dies Program and the forty-third anniversary of the entire University. President Moois stated that . the Kausai-Gaidai officials, \ ... in\Vited all of those involved in the establishment to share in this momentous occasion.\ Among the official events are a din11e.r party, official cerem()nies, a tour of university facilities, and a tour of Ky~toand Nara. 1'he Morrises, who plan on leaving November 1, will , · Approximately seventy spend a few days in Tokyo, students have partaken in the before -travelling on to Osaka Japan program since its and Kyoto. After spending inception five years ago. approximately one week More generally President attending official events and Morris stated that, \ ... he was sight-seeing, the President and happy with the way the Japan Mrs. Morris will travel to and China programs are Nanking University on proceeding and that by visiting November 11. both of the programs, we are According to President · showing them our interest in Morris, the trip to Nanking continuing the programs, while gives him, \ ... the opportunity to visit and observe trrst-hand . ''· •• we are showing the operation there.\ He .plans . them our interest in on meeting with officials from . continuing the programs, Nanking University who want while at the same time ' ~ • . •It to, \ ... discuss the possibility expressmg our /respect •. of expanding the exchange :.President John Morris relationship.\ Thus,. according . ----------- to Morris, \ ... this gives ·me the opportunity to assess whether the expansion of the program is appropriate or not for our purposes.\ The main purpose of the trip to China is to renew the formal exchange agreement, which will extend the China exchange .program for another three years. In the three years of the China exchange program approximately thirty-six students have participated. at the same time expressing om:_ respect In reference to the Terms Abroad Program, President Morris stated that they are, \ ... a very important part of what Union has to offer.\· This statement, based on the statistic that approximately forty percent of Union graduates participate in a Tenn Abroad, shows that students concur with the President's opinion. Student Forum Reviews Implementation of Honor C-ode and New Academic Pro~rams . ' By STEPHANIE Jl\RYNA. councils· Ov.er the past three weeks the Academic Mfairs Council ha.s Thougb last week's Student Forum meeting proved t<J be little more than an information meeting, it is clear that .¢ere are some important decisio11s headirrg towards the fomm floor in the near future. Last week the Forum basically caught up on the activitie-s of the following committees alld . ' been reading 14t'ough proposals which were brought to the Council last academic year. U ~fortunately, due to time restraints the Council was not · able to investigage them until now as they overflow into the Council's objectives for the 1988-1989 academic year. The • I' ' . '- ' CDC NEWS · Oc1. 13 Boston & NYC Recruiting Day ~ Information Meeting Liberal Arts students in all three division have the opportunity to interview with major employErs in NYC and Boston in .Jan. Attend this . short meeting Jo learn -about the opportunities and process for participa~ng. 4:30 or 7:30 pm at the CDC Oct. 15 Homecomin11 Alumni Career Programs Are you interested in meeti\g informally with alumni to find out about careers in Finance, Advertising or International Business? Con'le to the CDC Saturday, Oct. 15, at 11-i2noon. Oct. 17 Resume \Yorkshop 4:30, CDC Oct. 18 Resume W~rrkshop 7:30 1 CDC Getting Started: Career Assessment . & DecisioR Making~ . This 3 part progran'l is desigr1ed to assist students who have not yet decided on specific career goals. It will help you choose appropriate job targets through assessment of your skills perSonality and interest. Oct. 18, 25 & Nov. 1 4:30 p.ITI. CDC or Oct.· 19, 26 & Nov. ~ 7:30p.m., CDC Oct. 19 Resume Workshop 8:00p.m., CDC The following comp~1nlea still have openings on the achedule. If Interested, atop by the CDC and sign up for an Interview time with resume and transcript. NEW ADDITION~ Clo,ugh Hatbour·.CE majors- 1111 ()ISS Continental TelephC111e Co.-CS majors-11/8/88 Coopers & Lybrand·CS, M9A and Health Administration-101~/88- Flrst lnvestors••Any Major--11/1·0/88 Geary Corporatlon··Any major with ability to progra;am-1119/sS lnler.natlonal Pape;r--ME; EE & CE-10/25/88 Naval Underwater Sy:st,ma•-EE-10/25/88 New England Power Servlce·•EE--:.1113/88 Air Force ·Civllbtll Personnel Manag$1nent Center•aME & EE-10/~1188 US Dept. q.f Energ~·-MI:, EE & CE-11·19/88 Upjohn Pharmac$tltil~tds·-BI. CH-10/28/88 - . Grad School: Waslrll'l!Jton & Lee Onlverslly \' School of Law-•11/2/88 RESUME REFE:RRA.b island hecreationai··AII ITISjors, deadline 11/14/88;SEA Consultanta··CE, ME & EE, deadline 1114/88 three separate proposals are an atte~pt to implement a Women's Studies, Religious Studies and an East Asian Studies program into the UnionC<>llege curriculum. The Coum:il will investigate stat'fing needs to accompany these proposals before a formal recommendation is brought to the administraqon. plans to \Hit the Road\ and formulated an ad-hoc begin :condu.cting its weekly committee to investigate an meetings in a variety of Honor Code at Union. The locations on campus in committee is presently in the attempts to encourage student Recently, the Student Forum stages of obtaining information participation in Forum from comparable colleges ' decisions. Tonight the Forum detailing their Honor Codes. It will meet in Room 409 of the is also on the agenda of the College Center at 7:00 p.m. Academic Affairs Council to and wil begin meetings on the investigage the implementation road next week. All Student of an Honor Code at Union. Forum meetings are open to Finally, the Student Forum the college community. STUDENT- FORUM FALL TOUR SCHEDULE DlJie. Place f\eenda Oetoberl3 College Center General Open 7:0()pm Room409 Meeting October20 Bronner House Minorities Issues 7:00pm on Campus .. Ocoober27 Richmond House Women's Issues/ · 7:00.pm Security Nc:;~vember 3 College Center Use·ofthe College 7:()0pm Atrium Center Nllvember 10 West College The Meal Plan \7:~0pm Dr. Andrea Parrot will speak at Union on \Relationships: Decisions? Decisions!\ On the faculty at Cornell, Dr. Parrot teaches . courses in Human Sexuality. She is wide.ly re~ognized in her field, has spoken on humerous campuses and has been cited in many national . publications. At Union she will facilitate a discussion on relationships. The program will be at 3:00 to 5:00pm Thursday, October 13 in the College Center Auditorium. Controversial Sexual Speaker Returns to Union Today By KRIS BURNHAM This Thursday,. here at Union, Dr.Andrea Parrot will be leading a discussion on relationships. Dr. Parrot is returning to Union after having spoken here previously. The first time Dr. Parrot spoke here at Union, quite a few eyebrows were raised. As a member of the faculty at Cornell University, Dr. Parrot is a well-known author and speaker on the subject of realtionships and sexuality. The topic of her discussion will be, \Relationships: Decisions? Decisions!: Judging from the overwhelming response to Dr. Parrot's presentation during her last visit her.e, this Thursday promises to be an event which will bring about some lively discussions between students, faculty and all others within the college community. \The program will be held in the Atrium on Thursday, October 13 from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m.

·Page 4 CONCORDIENSlS October 13, 1988 The! Business of Tuition Continued from page 1 prospective students is there.\ states Mullaney \This is a business. An educational Director of Financial Aid, Michael Brown, agrees that ··price can be deceiving because as tuition raises, so does tt.e high-sc·hool guidance · · institution has to look at the · amount of financial aid funds . counselors to make it clear to . college-bound seniors t·hat . financiro~aid is available. and Union Among Colteges. Co·mpeting In AT & T Investment Challenge By STEVEN SCHEICHET 1 shcliNing how each participant· : · ·, fare(J against students in their • 1 · cla~s. th.eir . colieg.e and On November 1 college· ·nationwide. students throughout the; 'Tile event is open to only cottntry who have registered to C(}llege stu.dents and the entry compete in the AT&T· fee is $49.95 per student. Once Collegiate Inves,tment re~istered, you receive an Challenge will begin trading investment kit which includes their own $500;000 brokerage complete rules. and accounts. The student who in~tr 11 ctions. an S & .P stock produces the highest portfolio gaiele, DowPhone access, and value by trading real stocks, in na 11 saction ledger. :Register a four month period, will win soom because the deadline for the first prize ca,s~ award. of . e 11 try is October2ist. $25,000. In add1t1on to ftrst The contest does not require prize there are many other. all in-depth knowledge of the valuable prizes up for gra~s , stcc:k market. Even if you enter worth over $200,000. Thts 311 tL do not win a .prize, the contest is an opportunity for : ex!)'erience of the contest will those w~o. be~1eve they can .belp you to understand what a make a ~illi~g 1~ the market t.o challenge the markets are and test therr skill m an authentic w11at it might be like to be a simulation. st<Jck broker. But think positively; if you do happen to AT&T, m association with select the right stocks and a Wall Street Games, ~nc., has· few skyrocket be(;ause of a made . th~ event umque .by ta]teover or just perform above establlshmg . a fuU service , ave:rage then you may be richer brokerage fum to handle 1 tlla 11 if you had not registered trading ac~ivity and provide~· t()play! human assistance throughout 1 1 'fo register for the contest, the event. Each month, players 1. a table in the student center will be mailed a personal three- ' will be available Friday and page account statement and ! some time next leek If you newsletter. The statement will . wiU be unable to be there, then provide the player with all the . . ycu can contact: Steven necessary information a real S(Jheichet at 3&6-4026, or broker statement would show Pl:ofessor Lewis in the the portfolio manager. There 1 i Economics Department at 370- will also be a ranking section . 607&. . ALCOHOL AWAREN~S WEEK Tuesday, October 18- Film- \Da~s of Win~ and Ro~es• starrin~ Jack Lemmon andleeRerni(K:who g1ve usa v~ewt>fguzzling which is sobering. There YliUE:le a discussion following each · screening. 7 and 9 in the Ccll~ge Center-No admission . fee. Dutch Hollow will be featuring Sundance Fruited Waters, an alternative beverage f()r s.<Jcial events. 11 :30 am- 2:00 pm- Dutch Hollow Restaurant Wednesday, October 19- Wine ta~ting. This event will feature alcoholic and non-alcoholi<i Vlines. 11 :30 am - 2:00pm - / Dutch Hollow Restaurant. Thursday, OCtober 20-- Come sample foods which have bee~ prepared using recipes thatuse alcohol for season1ng. 2:00 pm~ 4:00 pm - Rathskellllr. Friday, October 21- can you tellltle difference be~e~n al~oholic and non-alcoholic beer by taste alone? Particrpate m our taste test between 2:00 pm ~nd 4:00 pm in the Rathskellar. Results will be posted in the Concordiensis. Wednesday, October 19- Friday, October 21 \lm~ges in. . · Advertising\ a bulletin board display des1gnedto show how the alcohol industry ma11ipUiates us with images of · patriotism, sex·.:~ality and po'I!IJer associated with. alcohol consumption. College Center. The Interfraternity and Panl\tellenic Councils invite you to take a pledge of sobriety .for .one day ~f the weeken~. ReQardless of how vou resp.ons to the1r offer, youw1111earn something about yourself in considering it. Sign.up- in the College Centerfoyer betwmen 11 :00 am and z:oo pm. \The need to make sure that we are perceived as a quality product -to our. prospective students •s there.\ -Full Member of the Board of Trustees Cathy Mullaney · taken from it.. He>wever it can . act as a doul>le-edged sword · since ·as the College takes in · more funds when it raises · tuition, it also raises students' needs for financial assistance. Maranville does not believe that rising tuition has affected · · the applicant pool and states · · that he is not concerned about . it in the short-mti, although he • ·• • price can be decieving because as tuition raises, so ddes the amount of financial aid funds taken from it.\ -Direotot of Ffuancial Aid, Michael Brown marketplace and determine . .is concerned about the long- that price. should not.act as a • ?\' .term· ·. \p.ub· l,t··c 1'\A .. , l·I·c-·y\ I··ss·ue. detell'en.t when dec. iding. what 'Who are we trymg to attract. v-~ When asked if the College However, Mullaney believes colleges to appl~ to. . foresees continually rising that tuition.,aJteady bas affected I.ronical1y, it seems as tuition.as eventually affecting .the applicattt pool but is not though it is bad for a college's. the applicant pool (specifically aware of any concern. She does marketability, ·in ~orne · in economic diversity), Hauser · mention tJle College's effort to respects, to appear either too answered that he supposed it increase geographic diversity expensive. or too inexpensive. possibly could., but that he . but states ;'Union has an . College officials seem to echo · . hasrt!t heard any evidence of obligation to do as much as · · the thought that students apply that so far, especially when one they can to maki} sure they to Union because they feel it is · considers that the percentage of · have as broad a range of worth the expense and .share the funds allocated for financial aid . · students as possible.\ · hope that the CoUege can · has increased at least as much · Mammola states that the · continue to .meet the financial as tui_tion in recent years. · College relies~ to an extent. on.-·. needs of its students. Union Maintains Statu$ Quo Despite BU's Overnight ·Guest Pplicy · :By KE)\.LY MCGOWAN Students returning to· dormitories on the Boston . University campus thb fall were greeted with a new set of' rules. No longer are students at, Boston University allowed to have overnight guests in their' dormitories. This ·new. regulation is the result of a . complaint made by the mother of a female student. The mother complained that her • daughter's roomate frequently entertained her . boyfriend overnight in the dormitory ·room. Boston University had rules like these back in the 1950's and 1960's_ but dropped them when they introduced co-ed housing. The Dean of Students :reintroduced these rules for two reasons. One reason is an attempt to once again control dormitory life. Another reason for these rules is to try to protect tQ some degree the studen~· privacy within theit dormitory room. Formerly, the rule at B.U. allowed students to have up to four guests if all roommates and the residence advisor agreed. Now however, students can only have blood relatives . or prospective students of the same sex as overnight guests in their rooms if their roommates agree.· A11 other guests under these new laws • must leave by 11:00 PM on : weekdays. and. 1:00 AM on the weekends. The residence i advisors will be requir~d to · enforce this policy by : removing the other guests.' ID's ' and turning them into the Dean of Student's office at the appropriate hour. ' ~ f' In talking to Union~s Dean of Students Joseph Mammola about this new policy at B.U., . he said \Union has no plan for a policy like this. We. are not thinking about it but are just observing it like the rest of the . world.\ Dean Wood said \We have a guest policy, but every school has a guest po'licy because we need to know who is here.\ Library Automated Circulation System \To Be· In Effect Winter Term :By ANN SEEMANN College Librarian in September 1986, a matching grant to the College was received from the Pew . Memorial Trust fo:r a library i automation project. Over the' next two years a number of library software/hardware systems were reviewed and artaly~ed, vendors selected (DRA and DEC), needs analysis and library profiling completed, and contracts signed. Last spring the Library · Homecoming· '88 October 14, 15· and16 database was loaded, and during the past summer 132,000 volumes were barcoded. Originally, we had intended to bring up the online public catalog for Fall Term 198.8. However, version 2.1 of the online catalotg software is to be released in December, and because it is .quite different and much improved over ORA's current version, the decision was made by the Library Automation Committee to wait until this new release can be installed. Therefore, if all goes according to plan, and we have every confidence that it will, · · both the online catalog and the automated circulation svstem will be brougnt up vv mter Term. Here·in the Library we .. all look forward to the success of this major technological step with enthusiasm. There win undou;btedly be some glitches at first, and we will need to depend on the good · humor and patience of our . user.s during the first few months of system use. of the Week: Union hosts opening ceremonies of the . New York State ~pecial Olympics Fall Tournament. •• - • I Sc M ar G B s, M C< Sf p1 fc Cl a1 th fi sc c; ru ·OJ c; c: s y~ -p ht c G Cl tl v. f4 p ''] s: .a s r~ N s

·Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Union Among: Colleges Competing In AT & T Investment Challenge By STEVEN SCHEICHET: showing how each participant· fared against sttidents in their class, their co'llege and On November l college··. nationwide. students throughout the · The event is open to only country who have registered to· college students and the entry compete in the AT&T· fee is $49.95 per student. Once Collegiate Investment registered, you receive an Challenge will begin trading · investment kit which includes their own $500,000 brokerage complete rules and accounts. The student who · instructions, an S & P stock produces the highest portfolio guide, DowPhone access, and value by trading real stocks, in transaction ledger. Register a four month period, will win soon because the deadline for the first prize cash award of . entry is October 21st. $25,000. ln addition to first The contest does not require prize theTe are many other an in-depth knowledge of the valuable prizes up for grahs stock market. Even if you enter worth over $200,000. This , and do not win a prize, the contest is an opportunity for · experience of the contest will those who believe they can help you to understand what a make a killing in the market to challenge the markets are and test their skill in an authentic what it might be like to be a simulation. stock broker. But think . . . positively; if you do happen to AT&T, m associatJ.on w1th select the right stocks and a Wall Street Games, ~nc., has few skyrocket because of a made . th~ event umque .by · takeover or just perform above establish mg . a full service average then you may be richer brokerage fum to handle than if you had not registered trading activity and provide : to play! human assistance throughout To register for the contest, the event. Each month, players li a table in the student center will be mailed a personal thTee- ~ will be available Friday and page account statement and = some time next week. If you newsletter. The statement will will be unable to be there, then provide the player with all the you can contact: Steven necessary information a real Scheichet at 386-4026, or broker statement would show Professor Lewis in the the portfolio manager. There : Economics Department at 370- will also be a ranking section 6078. ALCOHOL AWARENESS WEEK Tuesday, October 18-- Film- \Days of Win~ and Ro~es\ starrin~ Jack Lemmon and Lee Remick who g1ve us a vtew of guzzling which is sobering. There will be a discussion following each screening. 7 and 9 in the College Center- No admission fee. Dutch Hollow will be featuring Sundance Fruited Waters, an alternative beverage for social events. 11:30 am- 2:00 pm- Dutch Hollow Restaurant Wednesday, October 19- Wine tasting. This event will feature alcoholic and non-alcoholic wines. 11 :30 am - 2:00 pm - Dutch Hollow Restaurant. Thursday, October 2()- Come sample foods which have bee~ prepared using recipes that use alcohol for season1ng. 2:00 pm- 4:00pm - Rathskellar. Friday, October 21- can you tell the difference be~e~n al~oholic and non-alcoholic beer by taste alone? PartiCipate 1n our taste test between 2:00pm and 4:00pm in the Rathskellar. Resulls will be posted in the Concordiensis. Wednesday, October 19- Friday, October 21 'Images in Advertising\ a bulletin board display designed to show how the alcohol industry manipulates us with images of patriotism, sexuatily and power associated with alcohol consumption. College Center. The lntertraternity and Panhellenic Councils invite you to take a pledge of sobriety for one day of the weekend. Reoardless of how you respons to their offer, you will learn something about yourself in considering it. Sign up in the College Center foyer betweeen 11:00 am and 2:00pm. The Business of Tuition Continued from page 1 prospective students is there.\ states Mullaney \This is a business. An educational instHution has to look at the Director of Financial Aid, Michael Brown, agrees that price can be deceiving because as tuition raises, so does the amount of financial aid funds · taken from it. However it can act as a double-edged swoFd since as the Colilege takes in more funds when it raises tuition, it also raises students' high-school guidance counselers to make it clear to college-bound seni.ors that financial-aid is available. and \The need to make sure that we are perceived as a quality product to our prospective students is there.\ · needs for financial assistance. • ·• • J>rice can be decin·img because as tuitiDll raises, so does the amo11nt of financial aid tu11ds taken from it.\ -Full Member of the Board of Trustees Cathy Mullaney marketplace and determine Who are we trying to attract?'\ When asked if the College foresees continually rising tuition as eventually affecting · fue applicant pool (specifically in economic diversity), Hauser answered that he supposed it possibly could, but that he · hasn't heard any evidence of that so far, especially when one considers that the percentage of funds allocated for financial aid has increased at least as much as tuition in recent years. · Maranville does not believe that rising tuition has affected the applicant pool and states that he is not concerned about it in the short-run, although he is concerned about the long- term \public policy\ issue. However, Mullaney believes that tuition already has affected the applica~t pool but is not aware of any concern. She does mention t,!le College's effort to increase geographic diversity but states \Union has an obligation to do as much as they can to make sure they have as broad a range of . students as possible.\ · Mammola states that the College relies, to an extent. on -Director of Financial Aid, Michael Brown that price should not act as a deterrent when deciding what colleges to apply to. Ironically, it seems as though it is bad for a college's , marketability, in some respects, to appear either too expensive, or too inexpensive. College officials seem to echo the thoaght that students apply to Unien because they feel it is worth tb.e expense and share the hope that the College can continue to meet the financial needs ef its students. Union Maintains Status Quo Despite BU's Overnight Guest Policy By KELLY MCGOWAN Students returning to dormitories on the Boston University campus this fall were greeted with a new set o( · rules. No longer are students at I Boston University allowed to have overnight guests in their' dormitories. This new regulation is the result of a complaint made by the mother of a female student. The mother complained that her daughter's roomate frequently entertained her boyfriend ovemight in the dormitory room. Boston University had rules like these back in the 1950's and 1960's but dropped them when they introduced co-ed housing. The Dean of Students reintroduced these rules for two reasons. One reason is an attempt to once again control dormitory life. Another reason for these rules is to try to protect to some degree the students' privacy within theif donnitory room. Formerly, the rule at B.U. al;lowed students to have up to four guests if all roommates and the residence advisor agreed. Now however, students can only have blood relatives or prospective students of the same sex as overnight guests in their rooms if their roommates agree. All other guests under these new laws must leave by 11:00 PM on weekdays and 1:00 AM on the weekends. The residence 1 advisorS Will be required tO enforce this policy by removing tile other guests' ill's 1 and turning them into the Dean of Stl!dent's office at the appropriate hour. In tailing to Union's Uean of Stu.dents Joseph Marnmola about tllis new policy at B.U., he said ··union has no plan for a policy like this. We are not thinki11g about it but are just observing it like the rest of the world.\ Dean Wood said \We have a guest policy, but every scho<>l has a guest policy because we need to know who is here: .. Library Automated Circulation System To Be In Effect Winter Term By ANN SEEMANN College Librarian In September 1986, a matching grant to the College was received from the Pew Memorial Trust for a library I automation project. Over the next two years a number of library software/hardware systems were reviewed and analyzed, vendors selected (DRA and DEC), needs analysis and library profiling completed, and contracts signed. Last spring the Library Homecoming '88 October 14,15 and 16 database was loaded, and during the past summer 132,000 volumes were barcoded. Originally, we had intended to bring up the online public catalog for Fall Term 1988. However, version 2.1 of the online catalotg software is to be released in December, and because it is quite different and much improved over ORA's current version, the decision was made by the Library Automation Committee to wait until this new release can be installed. Therefore, if all goes according to plan, and we have every ·Confidence that it will, both tlle online catalog and the automated circulation svstem will IJe bmugm up vv Inter Term. Here·in the Library we ·· all look: forward to the success of this rnajor technological step Vtlith enthusiasm. There will undoubtedly be some glitches at first, and we will need to depend on the good humor and patience of our users during the first few months of system use. Photo of the Week: Union hosts opening ceremonies of the New York State Special Olympics Fall Tournament. I ! l 1. il Ji I I I

P ··•· ,. . . . ·_ IC .. 1onary :By MS. RlCKI BEHR NatioQal M.S. Society NEW YOE.K, NY, CONCORIJIENSIS October 13, 1!)88 ·Page 5 FEATURES September 29-- The National Multiple Sclerosis Society announced today that The Games Gang's Pictionary and Balderdash would j:oin jts SAMS' cot:porate team and that MaxeH would return as a corporate sponsor for the second year in a row. The program, now beginning its fourth. year, takes place on 200 ca:rnpus·es nationwide and attracts the support of thousands of students in the fight against multiple sclerosis. The Games Gang plans to promote .the #1 game in the country, Pictionary. and the new, \hilarious bluffing game\ Balderdash, on SAMS Where·Are Our Mind·s Heade:d, Do Yo·u Understand? By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor ·campuses. throughout the Fall Can there be another ideal? experience. 1 walked for many meters befoie I came upon the one inch sliver that represents the human .race. , It is difficiA)t to convey the concept of geologic consumpti()n. I have n~ver heard this phrase in text but I define it tlii~ way. In four billion years 'the earth has ~c<>oled sufficietUly to create the tectonic; plates that is the egg shell that we have built on. These plates~ move but our sense of time ·is not keen enough t<> comprehend the movement. 1his is similar to out inabilit:y to conceptualize space as enciless. Our effects are an Spring Semest~rs.· Playing Perhaps-the directions. in which ·of the games will take place on our eryetgy is channeled are campuses through fund raising wrong. _ events including tournaments demands a solution are the and all night game marathons. solutions based on shoddy \Our games are alrea(ly principles? Are our lliisdirected favorites on many college ·energies plaguing our campuses. Now, through ·existence? What no one seems SAMS, we're able to tap irito to realize is that our existence young people's enthusiasm for . on this planet is miniscule Pictionary and Balderdash and · e:ompaFed to the other life help a,. good cause,\ said Joseph· forms. I have walked the time Cornacchia~ President of the ·' line at dinosaur park. It is a GamesGang. tho;roughly humbling With Maxell'.s return as a corporate sponsor of SAMS, the company plans to provide videotapes to SAMS' campuses for events including the program's \Rock Alike.\ . ''Rock Alike'' is a national lip- sync competition whose.finals . are broadcast as part of MTV's Spring Break programming. MS is a chronic, often disabling disease· that \short citcuits\ the centtai nervous systems young ·adults every week,. most of whom are _between the ages of 20 and 40. There is no .known cause or cure, but there is hope through biomedical research supported by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. --~----------~--------------~--. A R·OTARV INVITATJON TO UNI-ON COLLEGE J:UN•IORS On Thursday, October 27th, the Schenectady Rotary Club will observe Vocational Service Day. College juniors , are cordially invited to take part in this special: event. On the morning of the 27th, stude.rJts will have an opportunity to spend the morning. with a Rotarian at , her/his place of business whose professional career is of interest to the student. Dozens ()f careers are represented in the Rotary Club. At noontime •. all participating students \Nill be special guests·of the Rotary Club at its weekly lltncheon meeting held at the First Reformed Church on lower Union Street. The program will be a talk <>n corp~rat~ research. The event Will conclude at 1 :30 pm. If you are interested in participating, please contact: Ronald L. Lagasse, Director- Schenectady County Public Library, 99 Clinton Street, Schenectady, New York, 12305-2083. Or call. at 382·3543. . , We are looking forward to hearing from ou. UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM PRESENTS LA·RRY LINVILLE \Major Frank Burns\ An Evening of Laughs Speaking on HM*A*S*H AND MORE'' featuring uncut episode of M*A*S*H on b!g screen Memorial Chapei.S:OO pm . Friday, Oct 14, 1988 j Tickets: College Center •. iJ ·Box Office $3.00 Homecoming Weekend inconsequential. The earth will, in time, continue cooling down and completely recycle any of our creations. Atmospheric oxygen will continue to diminish. The ice caps of Greenland have already shown us this decrease. Geologic consumption will eat all of our Q~tions. The key is time. I worry that our short term motivations don't coincide with the long term objectives of nature. I would hope that no <>ne considers the. human race as being a long term mutually beneficial specie. In some ways we are as valuable to other specie as the rocky mountain spotted tick is to a four year old child. We destroy other specie' habitat, we provide Jan dfills for the sea gulls to entwine their bodies in our plastic six pack holders, and we force extinction of specie. I read an article by Kevi!l Gardener which addressed water re-use. S11ch programs are ambitious, morally aligned, but insufficient. We create waste, worthless waste. Perhaps not. Efficiency is what most capitalistic systems seek. Waste is not efficient. In order to eliminate the problem of contaminated drinking water, contaminated sea water, contaniinated dirt, the extinction of specie that have not been given a chance to ad.ap~ we must eliminate the creation of waste. Storage and regeneration are simply not sufficient. Can we not learn to inhabit a finite space, perhaps that will be the space that we were intended to inhabit. Anotner reasoning approaches this problem. Since we are an aspect of nature, since we have created an existence, are we not anoth.;r part of nature; perfectly in balance with the out -of balance yet cyclical nature of nature? For those of you who believe in a god, is this not all predetermined? Are our reactions to our problems infinitely small jumps of evolution? Do we exist as a niche of nature, and are we abiding by nature's laws? I fear not. But who am I, an actor of the ecological stage, t<J proclaim that we have stepped out of line . There are so many questions, so many doubt$, and so many opinions. I'm sure that you as a reader doubt this suggestion. But I am equally sure that you have your own treatment of the issue. I'm sure that it is specialized just as we are specialized in nature. And I am equally sure that you are not totally convinced that your translation is correct.

Pictionary By MS. RICKI BEHR National M.S. Society NEW YORK, NY, CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 5 FEATURES September 29-- The National Multiple Sclerosis Society announced today that The Garnes Gang's Pictionary and Balderdash would join its SAMS' corporate team and that Maxell would return as a corporate spon.sor for the second year in a row. The program, now beginning its fourth year, takes place on 200 campuses nationwide and attracts the support of thousands of students in the fight against multiple scleFOsis. The Games Gang plans to promote the #1 game in the country, Pictionary, and the new, \hilarious bluffing game\ Balderdash, on SAMS campuses throughout the Fall an Spring Semesters. Playing of the games will take place on campuses through fund raising events including tournaments and aU night game marathons. \Our games are already favorites on many college campuses. Now, through SAMS, we're able to tap into young people's enthusiasm for Pictionary and Balderdash and help a good cause,\ said Joseph Cornacchia, President of the Games Gang. Where Are Our Minds Headed, Do You Understand? With Maxell's return as a corporate sponsor of SAMS, the company plans to provide videotapes to SAMS' campuses for events including the program's \Rock Alike.\ \Rock Alike\ is a national lip- sync competition whose finals a.Fe broadcast as part of MTV's Spring Break programming. MS is a chronic, often disabling disease that \short circuits\ the centrai nervous systems young adults every week, most of whom are between the ages of 20 and 40. There is no k:nown cause or cure, but there is hope through biomedical research supported by the National Multiple Sclerosis Society. By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor Can there be another ideal? Perhaps the directions in which our energy is channeled are wrong. demands a solution are the solutions based on shoddy principles? Are our misdirected energies plaguing our existence? What no one seems to realize is that our existence on this planet is miniscule compared to the other life forms. I have walked the time line at dinosaur park. It is a thoroughly humbling experience. I walked for many meters before I came upon the one inch sliver that represents the human race. It is difficult to convey the concept of geologic consumption. I have never heard this phrase in text but I define it this way. In four billion years the earth has cooled sufficieRtly to create the tectonic plates that is the egg shell that we have built on. These plates move but our sense of time is not keen enough to comprehend the movement. This is similar to our inability to conceptualize space as endless. Our effects are A ROTARY INVITATION TO UNION COLLEGE JUNIORS On Thursday, October 27th, the Schenectady Rotary Club will observe Vocational Service Day. College juniors are cordially invited to take part in this special event. On the morning of the 27th, students will have an opportunity to spend the morning with a Rotarian at her/his place of business whose professional career is of interest to the student. Dozens of careers are represented in the Rotary Club. At noontime, all participating students will be special guests of the Rotary Club at its weekly luncheon meeting held at the First Reformed Church on lower Union Street. The program will be a talk on corporate research. The event will conclude at 1 :30 pm. If you are interested in participating, please contact: Ronald L. Lagasse, Director- Schenectady County Public Library, 99 Clinton Street, Schenectady, New York 12305-2083. Or call at 382-3543. We are looking forward to hearing from ou. inconsequential. The earth will, in time, continue cooling down and completely recycle any of our creations. Atmospheric oxygen will continue to diminish. The ice caps of Greenland have already shown us this decrease. Geologic consumption will eat all of our c;.reati.ons. The key is time. I worry that our short term motivations don't coincide with the long term objectives of nature. I would hope that no one considers the human race as being a long term mutually beneficial specie. In some ways we are as valuable to other specie as the rocky mountain spotted tick is to a four year old child. We destroy other specie' habitat, we provide landfills for the sea gulls to entwine their bodies in our plastic six pack holders, and we force extinction of specie. I read an article by Kevin Gardener which addressed water re-use. Such programs are ambitious, morally aligned, but insufficient. We create waste, worthless waste. Perhaps not. Efficiency is what most capitalistic systems seek. Waste is not efficient. In order to eliminate the problem of contaminated drinking water, contaminated sea water, contaminated dirt, the extinction of specie that have not been given a chance to adapt, we must eliminate the creation of waste. Storage and regeneration are simply not sufficient. Can we not learn to inhabit a finite space, perhaps that will be the space that we were intended to inhabit. Anotfier reasoning approaches this problem. Since we are an aspect of nature, since we have created an existence, are we not anoth.:!r part of nature; perfectly in balance with the out of balance yet cyclical nature of nature? For those of you who believe in a god, is this not all predetermined? Are our reactions to our problems infinitely smaJl jumps of evolution? Do we exist as a niche of nature, and are we abiding by nature's laws? I fear not. But who am I, an actor of the ecological stage, to proclaim that we have stepped out of line. There are so many questions, so many doubts, and so many opinions. I'm sure that you as a reader doubt this suggestion. But I am equally sure that you have your own treatment of the issue. I'm sure that it is specialized just as we are specialized in nature. And I am equaHy St,Ire that you are not totally convinced that your translation is correct. UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM PRESENTS Legal Brief LARRY LINVILLE \Major Frank Burns\ An Evening of Laughs Speaking on \M*A*S*H AND MORE\ featuring uncut episode of M*A*S•H on big screen Memorial Chapel8:00 pm Friday, Oct. 14, 1988 . Tickets: College Center J Box Office $3.00 Homecoming Weekend By DIANA E. SCHlOCHETTI <!' Has there been an increase or decrease in the amount of hate crimes? Who knows? Statistics· on the amount of hate crimes reported are not acquired and published by the U.S. Department of Justice (like other crimes). However, this is likely t<> change. Attacks on Asians, Jews, Arabs, homosexuals and other minoritie$ have prompted the Senate and the Honse of Representatives to pass the ' 1 Hate Crimes Statistics Act\ (H.R • ..:H93), sponsored by Representative John Conyers~ ·Jr. (O~Micb) .. This requires the Att<>mey General to \acquire · wad publish data on the incidence 0~ ~nal acts f.hat manifest prejudice based on race, religion, sexual orientation, or ethnicity.\ The crimes with respect to which such data will be acquired are: homicidet assault, robbery, burglary, theft, arson, vandalism, trespass, threat, and, other such crimes the Attorney General considers appropriate. The data will be used for statistical purposes only and wil not identify the individual victim. Studies by the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force have shown an increase in hate crimes against homo-sexuals: 7,008 in 1987, including 835 physical assaults. Although anti~Semitic incidents reported by the Anti~ Defamatiot'l League in 1987 $:howd a fiv~year decline~ a report this past May showed an increase of about 20% so far in 1988. Asians are another target. In Boston, civil rights violations against Asians have incareased from almost zero in 1980 to 41 in 1986. They represent 26% of all Boston civil rights cases, although Asians make up only · 3 % of Boston's 2.8 million . residents. The recording of incidents of hate violence, and the subsequent publication of those · incidents will go a long way towards putting an end to them If you nave a question or · topic you would like addressed · in \Legal Brief' please mail it to BQX 1536, cfo\Legal Brief.'' ,

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS October '13, 1988 FEATURES \'-F-_ as· t· for· A w---_ - ·ld H· - - t-\ q • - _ • -- • • __ - - , o.r . _ >arves . \Wait;\does Bill see snow?\ NAHI By SUZANNE SHAKER There is one case of AIDS being discovered in the world every minute. There are more cases of AIDS than births in today's world. These facts are real and they affect all of us. AIDS is a part of our society and even though it may not touch all of us directly we cannot deny that the deadly disease exists and is snatching up more and more lives each day. Because the AIDS epidemic is so new the general public knows relatively little about it. Many concerned faculty members, the administration and a number of very interested students want to change this, especially on this campus. They realize how· important it is to educate the community about AIDS, its symptoms and effects. These people are taking action and AIDS doing their part to inform Union College, to make the college community II AIDS Aware\. A conference on AIDS has been planned for Thursday, November 3rd by the college committee on AIDS. · The keynote address will be given at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel by Dr. Richard Goldsby, Professor of veterinary and criminal science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a Professor of biology at Amherst Colle·ge (Dr. Goldsby has also written and lectured extensively on the AIDS epidemic.) Following his presentation there will be four individual seminars from 1:30 to 3:30 p.m. in the College Center. All students, faculty and the public are welcome for an open discussion during these sessions. The topics to be discussed include, II AIDS and Minorities\ \AIDS and ' B:y BILL BOYD On Thursday, November 10, the entire Union coinmunity is encouraged to take a .step towards peace and development in our world by .fasting. On this day, the Campus Minis try will be sponsoring Oxfarn America's ·annual Fast -For A World Hilrvest.. Oxfam America is a non- sectarian, . non-profit international agency based itt Boston that funds self-help development projects and disaster relief in poor countries in Africa, Asia and Latin Am.eric~ and also prepares and distributes educational material for people in the United States on the issues of development and hunger. The Fast· For A · World Harvest is the agency's major fund-raiser. This y-ear Oxfam is focusing itS efforts on Vietnam and Kampuchea {formerly Cambodia), two countries tllat are still suffering from the effects of the Vietnam War. The ·proceeds from the Fast are used for food production and community reconstruction to help .reduce the incidence of starvation and malnutrition. The Fast will take place on Thursday, November 10 from 7.:00 a.m. · til 10:01!> p.m. During this 15-hour -span, people are asked to skip a meal (or two or three), forego junkiood, ... or, for the strong of heart, fast completely and donate the money saved and/or meal card punches not used t0 Oxfam America. There will be sign-up tables on Wednesday and Thul'Sday, November2and 3, · during lunch and dinner hours. T() end the fasting period, there will be a \break- fast\ in the Rathskellar starting at 10:00 p.m. Bread and soup will be served and all participants. in the fast are invited to join us at this social· Awareness . . Women\ \AIDS and Community Action'' and \AIDS Update\. Each session will be led by an expert in the field. You may attend as many - seminars as you like. The focus of this year's conference, which. differs from last year's is primarily aimed at the effect of AIDS on minorities and low income groups. These groups. tend to know the least about AIDS and yet are- highly affected by the disease. Although the conference has not been established as an annual function the college is considering that option. According to Professor Twitty Styles, the chairman of the committee on AIDS, the main goal of the conference is to define AIDS, its causes, symptolllS, transmission of the virus, available resources and public healtlt care treatment, and protection and prevention against AIDS: The AIDS committee which is mostly comprised of faculty bnt does include some students hopes that the audience will come away with a greater understanding of AIDS after the conference. - Last years conference received a tremendous turn out and the committee hopes that this years program will be even more successful. The committee has been reaching oat to the .community · contacting schools, churches, hospitals and social workers,· encouraging those outside the college to participate in the conference, offering them an oppnrtu.nity to have their questions answered as well. The conference will be videotaped so that those who are unable to attend can view the conference at a later date. In order for Union to become an AIDS aware environment Special Olympics Is Hosted At Union . ~ By JENNIFER HOLMES Did you know that 300 million individuals in the world have mental retardation · and that 100.000 mentally retarded babies are born in the United States each year? On October 7, 1988, the Area 9 Special Olympics and Schenectady County Special Olympics, which is part of Area 10, hosted the opening ceremonies of the New· York - Special Olympics State Fall . Tournament at th:e Memorial \ Fieldhouse. The competition ' occurred on the next day, Saturday, Octob'er 8. Over 300 athletes :Participated with the help and dedication of 100 coaches and over 100 volunteers, including thirty to forty Union students. Circle I{ played an integral role in organizing the ceremony~ The purpose of the Special . Olympics is to contribute to the physical, social, and psychological development of the mentally retarded. Through healthy competition and positive reinforcement, the. athletes attain self-confidence. ·. This self -confidence extends itself outside the playing .field and into the classroom ana. home. Since all of the athletes receive awards, there ue no losers. Everyone who participates in an event is a winner. Special Olympics is the largest athletic program in terms -of competition for the mentally retarded in the world. This S\Jccess has been made possible by the love and dedication of volunteers. Three hundred athletes paraded around the track of the fieldhouse, Each area wa~ led by an Union Student The Athle-tes in this particular tournament competed in softball~ cFoss country, soccer aJtd running. The Olympians trained for eight weeks in order to prepare for the games. At the ceremony, a variety of people spoke including Dean Mammola. The ceremony ended with the Area 10 athletes \lighting\ _ the torch symbolizing hope. and the motto of the Special Olympics: let me win, bu.t if I ~ cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt. The colored paper _ which represented the ligbt .of the torch shown brighter than any burning flame due to the smiles and enthusiasm expressed by these very speciai athletes. 'event While we urge everyone to participate in -the Fast, a few more volunteers- are needed to work the ..donation tables, bake bread and so forth. A}ob roster is available in the lobby .of the Religious Programs Office (College Center 404). Anyone interested in this project should sig_n up. · Worl~ hunger is a problem that cannot be ignored any lo!Jger. Millions of people throughout the world go hungry every day. Gover-nments are either unwilling or unable to aLleviate ~he situ;~don in many mstances, so i.t is up to independent agencies such as Oxfam American to feed the world's .hungry. These agencies are only as effective as their donations can allow them to he. Ending world hunger is now in our hands. Please be as generous. as you can and \Fast for a· World Harvest\ on November 10. there needs to be a sense of college committment, the college community must want to educate itself and support the efforts of those who are involved in. specific projects that promote AIDS awareness. In addition to the AIDS corn.mi.ttee the student forum is planning to distribute one hundred copies of the October single topic-issue of \Scientific America\ which is solely dedicated this month to the AIDS crisis. The psychology department is also buying one• hundted issues of the magazine as is the office of Dean Mamola. Some of the magazines will be sold for markedly less than the cover price, subsidized by the.c~llege at the information booth ,in the College Center. · · Don't forget to attend the conference. We cannot deny the existence-of aids. It is out there and jt affects us all. LANGUAGE ·TA.BLES FRENCH -Mon. 12:45 -1 :45 SPANISH- Tues. 11:45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN - Wed~ 12:45 -1 :45 . ITALIAN·- Thurs. 11:45 - 12:45 JAPANESE -Mon. 12:45-1:45 All Language Tables will ·be in the College Center Uperclassmen~s Dining Hall. Anyone not on the meal plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Puh and bring it up o \brown bag\ it.

CONCORD)ENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 7 -. FEATURES Hold, It Nothing to Do On _Campus? By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor Today I woke on time. l won't complain, bqt I was cold. I forgot this happens. Seasons change. l wish a friend liad informed m.e. ·Today I read a schedule that told me today was sixth week. - Someone took those midterms right through my week. I thought at first, ;'That is a cruel thing to do.\ Then I remembered that I like it. Yes, in a way it has been ftm: to become a geek. 1 heard a howl in: the Ubrary, and it came from the computers. Someone was done with something. They had completed one .of those papers .that encompass. one's entire day. To thrrik Of that And while we are thinldng, I would much rather be a couch- potato witnessing 15~inning playoff games than ignoring. that crap that is spewed from the TV about the \NEXT PRESIDENT\ t . i tried my hardest to try and make that look like a political slogan' .. Did it impress you ... Oh well. Again I thought,. that is two in one day remember, should we be more concerned with politics than baseball? I don't kn ?'1 . QW.···· . . . One last thing before· I set the geologic time clocks back in motion. Did the space shuttle make it back? How come nobody ~aid anything about that? I was watching Baseball? no. I k:now, you videotaped that advertisement by Dukakis, the one where the advisors switch the Vice Presidential candidate· from Quayle to Dole, and you're home .showing it off to a few friends. Cool. I seem to remember speeches by The Duke denounCing the job of Vice President. He was expressing thoughts that cast . the job into a petty, stench- ftlled bucket. Hold it! I missed something somewhere. What can I do to catch up to this runaway day. Sometimes, I fear for my sanity, usually on a Friday or Saturday night I saw an ad in Concordiensis that said \Visit the Gardens, Bring a Friend.\ That seemed far more appropriate to me·. Then I sought a friend... So, there is no need to worry. We still all have friends and foes. That is one thing that remains autonomous. Oh yes. · Let me apologize for stealing some of your precious minutes from your invaluable day. I am sorry. O~e more thing, the spell- checker dklli 1 t know Duk:akis or Quale, it only knew Bush and Dole. Let us s~ick to simple things. . By LISA CHERANDE I am not writing this article to preach to Union students for I am certainly not in the position to criticize them, nor is. it .any of my business to tell Union students how to spend their folll' years here. What I am going to do is simply to state the facts, and then tell yon my opinion of the situation at this academic institution. I hear a lot of students complaining about the lack of social alternatives on campus and in Schenectady in general. To me this is an unwarranted complaint. I find that I am unable to participate in half the opportunities available for lack of time. (One does need to allow a few hours each day for faod, sleep, and yes: homework!) I also have noticed that there is something for everyone on this. campuso No matter where your interests lie. I guarantee that there is some sort oforganization or group of students on campus that shares your enthusiasm for such a ,calling. If not, why not initiate your own organization? The bulletin boards located in ev~ry building on this campus are filled with opportunities, · events, meetings, clubs and lectures all the time. Therefore the complaint that there is not enough publlcity for cert~n events is also unwarranted. Apparently, students do not 1989 MARSHALL SCHOL.ARSHIP . . ,/ Graduating sen,iors please note that applications for the 1989 Mars4all Scholarship competition are due on October 15, 1988. The British Marshall scholarships, funded by the British Govemmen4 were established in 1953 as a national gesture of thanks to the United States for aid under the Marshall Plan. Up to thirty college graduates, men and women under 26, ru::e selected annually to work as British Marshall Scholars for two years for further degrees at 45 Dritish.Universities in a wide range of subjects (.including the sciences and humanities). As the M~shall Committee . explains: \ ... there is no such thing as a sterotyp1cal Marshall Scholar. While the Marshall Scholarships have a high reputation for intellectual excellence which we wish to retain, there has been tendency to assume that this is the sole criteria. Because ·of the mininium required GPA (3.7 or A-), it is; of course, assumed that all candidates have done vecy well in their academic studies. (Students with very strong academic records that may fall just short of · 3.7 are still urged to apply.) Within this framework, the selection committees are looking for additional qualities that distinguish the Mars]lall Scholars from others. Potential Marshall Scholars usually have a wide range of personal interests and achievements, but above all display a ·Wide. sense of adventure, enthusiasm, ·originality, individuality and a potential for leadership. The committees are particularly interested in those candi4ates who ate likely to make a practical as well as .an intellectual ~pntribution .to public life or international affairs in the USA wh~tev~ their chosen careers, whether in business, public service, politics, journalism, science, industry, education or academics.\ For applications and further information contact Prof. Marten English Dept. (ext. 6052). ' read the hundreds of sign.s plastering every inch of this campus. The people who complain about the lack of things to do on this campus must either never leave their rooms or shut their eyes as they walk to their classes! About the shortage of opportunities in Schenectady, that is another misdemeanor. Schenectady is a part of the Capital District. (In other words, Union is not far from. the state~s capital.) We are not in a remote part of the country where the nearest store is a general store. There are several colleges not more than a short car ride, and the.re is an abundance of restaurants, movie theatres, .malls, and nightclubs (some of which are under 21) all in the Schenectady/ Albany area. Sure, a car would be a plus, but Proctor's theatre and numerous restaurants are within walking distance. It seems to me students just do not take advantage of what they have. One final myth I feel obligated to clarify is the relations hip between Schenectady residents and Union students. It ought to be one· of mutual interdependency. I think Union students view Schenectady as a place to buy beer and midnight munchies. They are not aware of the fact that the Schenectady residents want them to be active members of the community. They want to get to know students, and they want to take advantage of our talents and . enthusiasm. That is why there are .so many opportunities availab:le for internships, employment, volunteer work, and general community involvement. I know that this fact dawned upon me just recently when I went to Temple for the Jewish holiday Simchat Torah. The members were extremely welcoming and quite excited to meet Union students. My friends and I were given open invitations to virtually the entire Congregation's homes. What I am saying, in summary, is don'y be afraid to leave the College grounds! I am not sure why Union fosters such a negative attitude in . its students, but my speculation is that students really are not apathetic! I think that they are, for the most part, involved, and that they do participate in the many facets of a ~ollege community. How else do all these clubs, lectures, and internships still exist? Perhaps it is simply habitual to criticize rather than ta!~e action. It is far easier to complain about the lack of things to do than to actually do them. So next time you are about to complain to a friend how boring it is at Union, take a look around at this thriving and industrious campus. Homecoming '88 At Union College Schenectady, N.Y. (Sept 26)-~When Union College alumni return to campus for Homecoming '88, they will have an opportunity to return to the classroom as }Yell. A day of open classes will be held on Friday, October 14, as the start of a weekend of movies, athletic contests, music and more. Speakers Forum has invited Larry Linville, a.k.a. Major Frank Bums of the popular television series, M* A *S*H, to amuse audiences with his own particular version of comedy on Friday, October 14 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Tickets can be purchased at the ~oor for $3:00 and the program is open to the . public·. The Annual Homecoming Parade will take place on ·Saturday, October 15 at 12:15 p.m. This parade of antique cars and costumed alumni travels off campus on some adjoining streets and then returns to campus to culminate near theN ott Memorial. The public is also invited to a concert of choral music by the Union College Choir, a mixed ensemble unu.:!r the direction of Hugh Allen Wilson. This free event takes place on Saturday, October 15 • . at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Visitors on campus may also want to stop by the Arts Building that weekend to view various displays of work by students, alumni and faculty. The exhibits will be open on Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. A highlight on this year's Homecoming '88 program will be a slide show entitled \The Japan Experience,\ which will take place from 5:30-6:30 p.m. on Saturday, October 15. Senior Kevin Irland and Professor Bill Thomas will share some of their perspectives on one of Union's most recent offerings, the Term Abroad in Japan. Volunteers needed for the Oxfam Fast - If you can make or post flyers, staff a sign-up table, show a video to the people with whom you live, or bake bread, you are needed! Please contact Laurel in the Religious Programs Office (404C CC; x66i8)

Page 8 CONCORDI£NSIS October ·t3, 1988 Founded at Union College 1877------ Diversity A Challenge Tuition increases show no signs of slowing down. This presents a challenge to both the Financial Aid Office as well as Admissions. Union prides itself on \Meeting its students' demonstrated needs for financial as~istance.\ It is vital tt.:t the college continue to be able to do so. Admissions is burdened with the responsibility of maki~g it screamingly clear to prospective students that finances. should not prevent them from applying. If the College is ever unable to perform either of these tasks, then it is doing a great disservice to itself. Union must strive to increase its diversity-- cultural, ethnic . and financial, not just geographic. The College will benefit from such diversity both immediately and in the future, and will also increase its chances of insuring that Union continues to be a school for the best, not the richest. November 8 November, 1980: Most members of the Union community were at the elementary level of their education. Hardly aware of the political issues and climate of the late 1970s, the election of Ronald Reagan over incumbent President Jimmy Carter had marginal impact, if any;on the daily routines of childhood. Age was the deciding factor in these students' lack of awareness; however, today, this g~oup that makes up the majority of the Union· community can no longer hide behind that excuse. The student body at Union makes up the largest faction of voters at Union; many of them will not participate in the electoral process. This is unfo~tunate as the candidate elected this November 8 will have an enormous impact on the next four years (and possibly more) of their lives. Now that voter registration h~s ended in most of the fifty states, all that can be said is \congratulations\ to those who exercised their right to vote. Those registered and voting have much in store for them. They will be able to analyze the different platforms of the presidential candidates and base their \choice\ on this analysis. They will be able to make a statement to the nation, and -across the world, if their candidate wins; they will be able to say that they did make the effort, despite the final outcome. They will be able to walk into a voting booth and cast their vote. LETTERS I Am Prejudiced; N·ot Racist To the Editor: I would like to address the argument (qua Sarwin qua Harris) put forwcu:d in the 'Oct 6 CQncordiensis letter to the editor entitled \Prejudice runs Rampant at Union\ that figures all people as racists by virtue of the (I guess.) psychological fact that all people \discriminate\, that is make decisions based upon familiar experience. I will assert that it is .impossilbe to determine simply from the observation that a person makes a choice -of A over B (where that choice involves color or race) whether that person has exercised a racially motivated form of preJudice or a non-invidious ferm of prejudice. What I will argue is that a person can be predisposed towards people s/he is familiar with and not be .prejudiced against others; and what I will not prove here but suggest is that predisposition (or what I regard· as a non- invidious form of prejudice, i.e., using the hypothesis to follow, choosing the person of like skin color) is socially determined by birth and education while racism (the invidious form of prejudgement) is socially _ derived from malice, ignorance, and envy. Take the hypothetical case offered by Harris: 1. You are in need of assistance; forget the nature of your need 2. You are presented with two possible saviors who for all appearance are exactly the Nationalism Questioned To the Editor, In response to N ecip ~ganaksoy's letter of commentary with respect to the article I had written two issues ago titled, \Hitting the Town in Greece,·\ I would like to make some points clear, and also comment on a common phenomenon, which I call \hysteric nationalism.\ Being far away from one's country is like portraying the role of a diplomat. You must be able to integrate within the cou.ntry's mentality you are serving·.. while tt\ying to preserve and defend at the same time your respective ideologies, cultures and traditions. Hence, · at times when one is confronted with material relating to his origin, his \base he is \obligated; to take some kind of stand, IF INDEED it reflects a misrepresentation of reality.; a false statement, a misinterpretation. But with respect to Necip's letter, he writes with no substance and basis. His \sword of defense\ seems to be his ego, rather than a gathering of substantial counter~arguments protesting against the line within ·the article which triggered his same (say two clones) except workshop\preposterous) to fend for the color of their skin (or, off the slightest indication that to tbe same effect, their age, they themselves rriight harbor their sex, etc.) so- that the any prejudices or, to the same ~ituation reduces to two effect, (like the mouthpieces of patches of color between which Harris) fr~ely admit their you must decide which is yotll' · prejudices and, with great favorite or, as Harris would put machois.tic j:oy. indulge it, wi:tich is your least favorite. th~m·selves ill self castig~tion. Conclusion: Harris will have Confession: I, th·e each and every one of 'us undersigned~ am, to no small (including himself) choose the degree, in agreement with person of like skin color (age, Harris' main· enterprise_ of sex); if you deny this, 1'ony making owselves and others Harris says you are lying. aware of prejudice because it is Indictment: Yoti. are always good to question your · prejudiced in. the worst jlistificati<ms so that you (presumabl!l only) way; you might perhaps amend them i~ have chosen one individual they unforld to be poor ones; over another and, <by however. as I said, I am no.t iii implication, one race over agreement with what the another. You should be implications of thos'e ashamed of yourself. Repent, prejudices (invidious and non- sayeth Tony Hams! invidious) migh;l be.· I do not Defense: -wen, -since t believe that if 1. should ehoose · __believe -that Tony Harris is -the person of like skin color to after my and everyone else's aid me in some· way or, to confession (the kind captors are make the hypothesis real, if I forever after their captives to should choose_ like-skinned produce though, of course, in . people to hang with, that I am their own words), I will give racist person, though, it, expose -myself as a confessedly, I am in some \prejudiced\, \discriminating\ sense prejudiced (predisposed). (yet not loathsome) person. I will take this risk so the Chidsey Dicksori '88 readers of C'oncordlens is might know a little more what ALL LETIERS TO THE kind of inc;lividual I am withou.t EDITOR MUST BE having to draw inferences built lYPED; DOUBLE out of prejudices and so, in SPACED AND Harris's eyes, --condemn SUBMITIEDTOiHE themselves as racists. CONCORDIENSIS -, . And I should say that this is OFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON · a risk since it seems that many 11-IE TUESDAY who have championed the MORNING cause nf race equality here at PRECEEDING WEEKLY U.C. are either prone (like ISSUANCE OF those who found Harris' CONCORDIENSIS Continued on page g ,

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 <!LllttfJ)rbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ---- Diversity A Challenge Tuition increases show no signs of slowing down. This presents a challenge to both the Financial Aid Office as well as Admissions. Union prides itself on \Meeting its students' demonstrated needs for financial assistance.\ It is vital tt.:.:t the college continue to be able to do so. Admissions is burdened with the responsibility of maki~g it screamingly clear to prospective students that finances should not prevent them from applying. If the College is ever unable to perform either of these tasks, then it is doing a great disservice to itself. Union must strive to increase its diversity-- cultural, ethnic and financial, not just geographic. The College will benefit from such diversity both immediately and in the future, and will also increase its chances of insuring thai Union continues to be a school for the best, not the richest. November 8 November, 198(): Most members of the Union community were at the elementary level of their education. Hardly aware of the political issues and climate of the late 1970s, the election of Ronald Reagan over incumbent President Jimmy Carter had marginal impact, if any, on the daily routines of childhood. Age was the deciding factor in these students' lack of awareness; however, today, this group that makes up the majority of the Union· community can no longer hide behind that excuse. The student body at Union makes up the largest faction of voters at Union; many of them will not participate in the electoral process. This is unfortunate as the candidate elected this November 8 will have an enormous impact on the next four years (and possibly more) of their lives. Now that voter registration has ended in most of the fifty states, all that can be said is \congratulations\ to those who exercised their right to vote. Those registered and voting have much in store for them. They will be able to analyze the different platforms of the presidential candidates and base their \choice\ on this analysis. They will be able to make a statement to the nation, and across the world, if their candidate wins; they will be able to say that they did make the effort, despite the final outcome. They will be able to walk into a voting booth and cast their vote. LETT'ERS I Am Prejudiced, Not Racist To the Editor: I would like to address the argument {qua Sarwin qua Harris) put forward in the Oct. 6 Concordiensis letter to the editor entitled \Prejudice runs Rampant at Union\ that figures all people as racists by virtue of the {I guess) psychological fact that all people \discriminate\, that is make decisions based upon familiar experience. I will assert that it is impossilbe to determine simply from the observation that a person makes a choice of A over B (where that choice involves color or race) w11ether that person has exercised a racially motivated form of prejudice or a non-invidious form of prejudice. What I will argue is that a person can be pFedisposed towards people s/he is familiar with and not be prejudiced against others; and what I will ROt prove here but suggest is that predisposition (or what I regard as a non- invidious form of prejudice, i.e., using the hypothesis to follow, choosing the person of like skin color) is socially determined by birth and education while racism (the invidious form of prejudgement) is socially derived from malice, ignorance, and envy. Take the hypothetical case offered by Harris: 1. You are in need of assistance; forget the nature of your need. 2. You are presented with two possible saviors who for all appearance are exactly the Nationalism Questioned To the Editor, In response to N ecip I\oganaksoy' s letter of commentary with respect to the article I had written two issues ago titled, \Hitting the Town in Greece,\ I would like to make some points clear, and also comment on a common phenomenon, which I call \hysteric nationalism.\ Being far away from one's country is like portraying the role of a diplomat. You must be able to integrate within the country's mentality you are serving, while trying to preserve and defend at the same time your respective ideologies, cultures and traditions. Hence, at times when one is confronted with material relating to his origin, his \base he is \obligated\ to take some kind of stand, IF INDEED it reflects a misrepresentation of reality, a false statement, a misinterpretation. But with respect to Necip's letter, he writes with no substance and basis. His \sword of defense\ seems to be his ego, rather than a gathering of substantial counter-arguments protesting against the line within the article which triggered his Continued on page 9 same (say two clones) except for the color of their skin (or, to the same effect, their age, their sex, etc.) so that the situation reduces to two patches of color between which you must decide which is your favorite or, as Harris would put it, which is your least favorite. Conclusion: Harris will have each and every one of us (including himself) choose the person of like skin color (age, sex); if you deny this, Tony Harris says you are lying. Indictment: You are prejudiced i.n the worst (presumabl)l only) way; you have chosen one individual over another and, by implication, one race over another. You should be ashamed of yourself. Repent, sayeth Tony Harris! Defense: Well, since I _believe that Tony Harris is after my and everyone else's confession (the kind captors are forever after their captives to produce though, of course, in their own words), I will give it, expose myself as a \prejudiced\, \discriminating\ (yet not loathsome) person. I will take this risk so the readers of Concordiensis might know a little more what kind of individual I am without having to draw inferences built out of prejudices and so, in Harris's eyes, condemn themselves as racists. And I should say that this is a risk since it seems that many who have championed the cause of race equality here at U.C. are either prone (like those who found Harris' workshop preposterom) to fend off the slightest indication that they themselves might harbor any prejudices or, t() the same effect, (like the moutllpieces of Harris) freely adrnit their prejudices and, with great machoistic joy, indulge themselves in selfcastigation. Confession: I, the undersigned, am, t() no small degree, in agreement with Ha.rris' main enterprise of making ourselves and others aware of prejudice because it is always good to question your justifications so that you might perhaps amend them if they unforld to be JlD()r ()lles; however, as I said, I am not in agreement with what the implications ~f those prejudices (invidiou.s and non- invidious) might be. I do not believe that if 1 sll011ld choose the person of like sk:in color to aid me in some way or, to make the hypothesis real, if I should choose like-skinned people to hang with, that I am racist person, though, confessedly, I am in some sense prejudiced (predisposed). Chidse~ Dickson '88 ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED 1\.f\ID SUBMITTED TO THE CONCOR DIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:()0 PM ON THE TUESDAY MORNING PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS Tlltlr;5til·tv, by the. <J{tl~~JJ;et ~At~¢;p.ectatl , . 'lark · , tnc.;; i l

.- . CONCORDIENSLS October lJ., 1988 Page 9 LETTERS Commun~ty Effort Encouraged, Special Olympics Extends Thanks \ To the Editor! On behalf ()f the College P:ark · Neighborhood Association (CPNA), I would like to commend the brothers· of Kappa Sig·ma (wh() are in fact residents Qf ·6ut · neighborhood) for taking on tlte task of keeping·· the center island of Seward :Place free of trash. In a time of cutback$ in City budgets, this is. a much needed service, and :sends the message to · the - College's neighb.ors that rstudents car.e about their community. For those whe do ·not kn'ow, the CPNA is an organization of homeowners, rentets and landlords of proper.ti'e.s immediately west of campus, oil Seward, Park, Barrett, Jay, South, Huron and Union. The organization's goals are to mclce the neighborhood .a safer and more attractive place to H:ve, for al1 of its residents. Speaking also as a .member of the College <:ommunity, I would urge other organizations on campus, perhaps in cooperation with the Student Grounds Committee. which was formed last year, to \adopt\ other areas of campu§.- and surrounding neighborhoods for similar treatment. On .campus~ for example, one .hour .a week could keep the \br that bounds.'' free of litter, or West Beach picked up~ Schenectady and Union College are your :home for four ye·ars. You owe it tO yourselves, and to the other members of the College and City community to l}lak.e it a ple.asant place to live. Kappa Sigma is showing one way to improve things. .. Do11glass Klein for the Col1¢ge Park Neighborhood Assn.; Assoc. Prof., Economics To the Editor: We would like to extend our thanks on behalf of ·the Special Olympics Co:nutiittee to those who helped to make the openi11g ceremonies for the fall games a success. When we started set up at one on Friday aftemoon we weren·'t sure if it was going to be possible to pull it off. But the members of Circle-K and brothers of :Kappa Sigma hung stteame111 and blew up balloons until the fieldho11se h.ad been transformed into an impresive. arena. t As atllletes started coming in at 7:00p.m., volunteers in the form of Union students appeared to be coming out the of woodwork, to help in any way that they could. As inore and more athletes arrived our excitement began to build. The parade wentoffwith only a few hitches, that were smoothly covered up with fast talking Ed Koval.. Marc Howard gave a beautiful rendition of the Star Spangled' Banner, which was followed by a few brief speeches by important dignataries; including Dean Mamrnola. Finally came the lighting of the torch and the special olympics oath. The games were declared open and balloons were dispersed and quickly popped~ Memories of that evening will last with us for a long time. Thank-you's are in erdcr for those who helped make the evening special. To the members of Circle-K who aided in the organization and planningt .and who were there to help out through out the day, to Dick Sec ala and the Fieldhouse staff for all of their help in set-up, to Rich Crocker for taking fantastic .pictures, to Ed :Koval who served as our celebrity MC, and to Marc · Howard, who never dreamed th,at coming over to do his laundry would get him roped · into singing the Star Spangled Banner in a tuxedo, and finally to the sisters ofDelta Gamma, the brothers of Kappa Sigma, and everyone else who was there. Jeanne Bouchard, President, Circle-K Candy Butts, Vice President, Circle-K Rosemary Lally, Chai.r]?erson, Special Olympics Committee Reflections on the Republican Party Accusations Offend To the Editor: Afghanistan were accomplished Never mind the fact that our as a result of efforts made by nations's youth are consumed Continued f.rom page 8 ''hysteric ·-nationalism.\ Ther article was \drenched\ in a satiric and sarcastic tone of how people entertain themselves ·in Greece. · The words used revealed nothing more·· thap · 'their precise definitions. But overall, to be sardonic ·and cynical, a reality must exist. Whether itis hard for a Turk to accept the existence of a high percentage of Turkish maidg in Greece, b.as nothing to' do with its reality. To ret\ute it without · any valid reasoning other than to \defend'; his nationality creates the problem of ''hysteric nationalism.\ . With ·respect to your criticism on my \unawareness of the recent developments\ between ·Greece and Turkey, -may I inform you that I will be writing my ·thesis on this present relationsbip. And my continuous interest-and zealous research in this sphere of politics has been . a main interest of mine for a very long time. Hence; I don't believe that your assumption was proper and needed. But let me state that even if the a11ticle's theme was directed towards the two countries present \good': relation. it would not restrain me from voicing my opinion; that being critical or exonerative. - In conclusion, if indeed an apology is expected 6y. .Necip I>oganaksoy, his ·expectations are extremely high. I don't believe that I have erred in any way. On the contrary I ,think that be. has, due to a misconstrued interpretation of the article. Anthee Carassavas '89 As Election Day draws near, the Republican Party has nothing hut praise for its beloved Presidential ticket. They continue to claim that George Bush!s choice of J. Danforth Quayle as his rulU)ing mate was a wise one. Never mind t:h.e fact that, when questioned three times during his Vice Presidential Debate with Lloyd Bentsen, · Senator Quayle had virtually no idea what he would do if he were required to assume the presidency. They praise Bush, claiming that he will seek to continue Ronald Reagan's \peace and prospertiy programs,\ wbile concurrently pledging not to increase taxes. During his debate with Michael Dukakis, Bush attempted to take credit for\all the good things that have happened in world peace since Ronald Reagan and I · took over.\ Never mind the fact that the Iran-Iraq cease fite and the Soviet withdrawal from the United Nations, an each and every day by their organization for which this addiction to drugs because the administration, until recently, Reagan-Bush Administratbn has shown nothing but has \just said no\ to them, contempt. Never mind the fact while saying yes to a drug- that the Democrats, not the running Panamanian dictator. Republicans, were the party to Reagan and Bush have brand South Africa as a accumulated a national debt terrorist state. As a matter of greater than that of every fact, increased pressure upon a administration from government of South Africa Washington to Carter has come only over the . combined. At his age, I objections of the Reagan-Bush suppose_ that George Bush Administration. doesn't need to worry about The Repub-licans also praise such a financial burden upon Bush for helping to maintain our nation's future. Never mind \prosperity\ in America. Never the fact that my generation will mind the fact .that American be paying off his monstrous citizens are now forced to sleep debt for years to come. It's not in doorways and beg for pocket Mr. Bush's future which has change just two blocks from been mortgaged off; he doesn't the · White House, the seem to care. Republicans don't seem to care, So tell us, Mr. Bush, are as long as their taxes are not these facts irrelevant, or do increased. Never mind that you, J. Danforth Quayle, the dozens will lie dying tonight in \Union College Republicans\ emergency rooms across the and the rest of your party really nation, unable to go upstairs to ,_, care? an empty hostptal bed for lack of adequate health insurance. Phil Zaccheo '89 Homecoming '88 October 14, 15, 16 ·' 605 Union Street . . . .. WELCOME BACK Open for Dinner Fri., Sat., Sun. LUNCH ON SAT. SUNDAY BRUNCH 10 AM 374-5930

i I. I l. I ' CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 9 Commun~ty Effort Encouraged To the Editor: On behalf of the College Park Neighborhood Association .(CPNA), I would like to commend the brothers of Kappa Sigma (who are in fact residents of our neighborhood) for taking on the task of keeping the center island of Seward Place free of trash. In a time ·Of cutbacks in city budgets, this is a much needed service, and sends the message to the College's neighbors that students care about their community. For those who do not know, the CPNA is an organization of homeowners, renters and land1ords of properties immediately west of campus, on Seward, Park, Barrett, Jay, South, Huron and Union. The organization's goals are to make ilie neighborhood a safer and more attractive place to live, for all of its residents. Speaking also as a member of the College community, I would urge other organizations on campus, perhaps in cooperation with the Student Grounds Committee which was formed last year, to \adopt\ other areas of campus and surrounding neighborhoods for similar treatment. On campus, for example, one hour a week could keep the \brook that bounds\ free of litter, or West Beach picked up. Schenectady and Union College are your home for four years. You owe it to yourselves, and to the other members of the College and City community to make it a pleasant place to live. Kappa Sigma is showing one way to improve things. Douglass Klein for the College Park Neighborhood Assn.; Assoc. Prof., Economics Accusations Offend Continued from page 8 \hysteric nationalism.\ Th01 article was \drenched\ in a satiric and sarcastic tone of how people entertain themselves in Greece. The words used revealed nothing more than their precise definitions. But overall, to be sardonic and cynical, a reality must exist. Whether it is hard for a Turk to accept the existence of a high percentage of Turkish maid~ in Greece, has nothing to do with its reality. To refute it without any valid reasoning other than to \defend\ his nationality creates the problem of \hysteric nationalism.\ With respect to your criticism on my \unawareness of the recent developments\ between Greece and Turkey, may I inform you that I will be writing my thesis on this present relationship. And my continuous interest and zealous research in this sphere of politics has been a main interest of mine for a very long time. Hence, I don't believe that your assumption was proper and needed. But let me state that even if the article's theme was directed towards the two countries present \good\ relation, it would not restrain me from voicing my opinion; that being critical or exonerative. . In conclusion, if indeed an apology is expected by Necip Doganaksoy, his expectations are extremely high. I don't believe that I have erred in any way. On the contrary I think that he has, due to a misconstrued interpretation of the article. Anthee Carassavas '89 LETTERS Special Olympics Extends Thanks To the Editor: We would like to extend our tb.aJlks on behalf of the Special Olympics Committee to those who helped to make the opening ceremonies for the fall games a success. When we started set up at ane on Friday afternoon we weren't sure if it was going to be possible to pull it off. But the members of Circle-K and brothexs of Kappa Sigma hung streamers and blew up balloons unti!( the fieldhouse had been transformed into an impresive arena As athletes started coming in at 7:00 p.m., volunteers in the form of Union students appeared to be coming out the of woodwork, to help in any way that they could. As more and more athletes arrived our excitement began to build. The parade went off with only a few hitches, that were smoothly covered up with fast talking Ed Koval. Marc Howard gave a beautiful rendition of the Star Spangled' Banner, which was followed by a few brief speeches by important dignataries, includiNg Dean Mammola. FinaHy came the lighting of the torch and the special olympics oath. The games were declared open and balloons were dispersed aRd quickly popped. Memories of that evening will last with us for a long time. Thank-you's arc in order for those who helped make the evening special. To the members of Circle- K who aided in the organization and planning, and who were there to help out th.mugh out the day, to Dick Sccala and the Fieldhouse staff for all of their help in set-up, to Rich Crocker for taking fantastic pictures, to Ed Koval who served as our celebrity MC. and to Marc Howard, who never dreamed th.at coming over to do his laundry would get bim roped into singing the Star Spangled Banner in a tuxedo, and finally to the sisters of Delta Gamma, the brothers of Kappa Sigma, and everyone else who was there. Jeanne Bouchard, President, Circle-K Candy Butts, Vice President, Circle-K Rosemary Lally, Chairperson, Special Olympics Committee Reflections on the Republican Party To the Editor: As Election Day draws near, the Republican Party has nothing but praise for its beloved Presidential ticket. They continue to claim that George Bush's choice of J. Danforth Quayle as his running mate was a wise one. Never mind the fact that, when questioned three times during his Vice Presidential Debate with Lloyd Bentsen, Senator Quayle had virtually no idea what he would do if he were required to assume the presidency. They praise Bush, claiming that he will seek to continue Ronald Reagan's \peace and prospertiy programs,\ while concurrently pledging not to increase taxes. D1uing his debate with Michael Dukakis, Bush attempted to take credit for \all the good things that have happened in world peace since Ronald Reagan and I took over.\ Never mind the fact that the Iran-Iraq cease fire and the Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan were accomplished as a result of efforts made by the United Nations, an organization for which this administration, until recently, has shown nothing but contempt. Never mind the fact that the Democrats, not the Republicans, were the party to brand South Africa as a terrorist state. As a matter of fact, increased pressure upon a government of South Africa has come only over the objections of the Reagan-Bush Administration. The Republicans also praise Bush for helping to maintain \prosperity\ in America. Never mind the fact that American citizens are now forced to sleep in doorways and beg for pocket change just two blocks from the White House, the Republicans don't seem to care, as long as their taxes are not increased. Never mind that dozens will lie dying tonight in emergency rooms across the nation, unable to go upstairs to an empty hostptal bed for lack of adequate health insurance. Never mind the fact that our nations's youth are consumed each and every day by their addiction to drugs because the Reagan-Bush Administrati :m has \just said no.. to them, while saying yes to a drug- running Panamanian dictator. Reagan and Bush have accumulated a national debt greater than that of every administration from Washington to Carter combined. At his age, I suppose that George Bush doesn't need to worry about such a financial l>urden upon our nation's future. Never mind the fact that my generation will be paying off his m<Jnstrous debt for years to come. It's not Mr. Bush's future which has been mortgaged off; he doesn't seem to care. So tell us, Mr. Eush, are these facts irrelevant, or do you, J. Danforth Quayle, the \Union College Republicans\ and the rest of your party really care? Phil Zaccheo '89 Homecoming '88 October 14, 15, 16 WELCOME BACK : • '·- .- '. ' • ' :' : • • ' ' •• 1 -. ' • Open for Dinner Fri., Sat., Sun. LUNCH ON SAT. SUNDAY BRUNCH 1 0 AM 605 Union Street 374-5930

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Let Your Spirits Get High With Ga~mma Phil BALLOON LAUN·C,H Saturday, October 15th dt l: 15 pm on the turf for S 1' .00 you buy a balloon and: you could win $25.00 Questions? Ask any sister of Gamma Phi Beta All proceeds will benefit Cerebra I Palsy of Schenectady . SOT presents its 3rd annual .M&M-A-1'honl Friday, October 14th at the College Center. Can you guess how many M&M's ten sisters can eat in 3 minutes? 1st Prize-- $50 gift certificate to Strawberries M·usic Store. 2nd Prize- $25 gift certiHcate to same. So DO NOT FORGET! COME WATCH US EAT! Booth in Carnegie Tues. Oct. 11 -Thurs. Oct. 13 All Money Goes To The National Prevention Of Child Abuse. A 1· <IMiri§afk's '-- . ~ . ..S'NEET 0 . b,\J• T90Tt1 .. ,_') 0 t614CUnwn Slrtrl · ~ . S(hnudm/j~ N.f. We{come !JL{umni Join us for breakfast, {uncfi, ani Suntfay 'Bruncli. ~ ervatiqns lielpfuf. 393-5592 _ Jl Country ~rencli (jounnet - :.Food, Candy ami (jijt Store Homecoming Protestant Worship Service Memonal Chapel 10/1 . 10 AM DR. WILLIAM GIBSON, GUEST PREACHER Dr. Gibson, a social ethicist, is a member of the Center for Religion, Ethics and SQci.al Po lie ATTENTION UPPER CLASS MEAL CARD HOLDERS The Winter Term Meal Plan is approaching rapidly. If there are any changes. for winter please contact Rich Bain at Union College . Dining Se·rvices. If not notified of change your meal plan will remain the same next term. THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVER'YDA Y Come visit us at the college center. Delivery is free With a purchase of $5.00 or over, or a small pizza. · CALL 370-6060 GET GOING AND RESERVE SEATING FOR. DU_TCHMAN'S .·NIGHT - Dinner at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant, .. Saturday, Oct. 15, 1988. Limited seatlng available at 7:30 pm~ Dinner fea1ures steak, prime rib arid seafood. . $12.50 per person or ONE PUNCH on yo,u.r meal· card. Reserve your pl~ce .NOWI Call #6.060 to make your reservation.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Let Your Spirits Get High With Gamma Phi! BALLOON LAUNCH Saturday, October 15th at 1 : 15 pm on the turf for $1 .00 you buy a balloon and you could win $25.00 Questions? Ask any sister of Gamma Phi Beta All proceeds will benefit Cerebral Palsy of Schenectady SDT presents its 3rd annual M&M-A-Ihonl Friday, October 14th at the College Center. Can you guess how many M&M's ten sisters can eat in 3 minutes? 1st Prize- $50 gift certificate to Strawberries Music Store. 2nd Prize- $25 gift certificate to same. So DO NOT FORGET! COME WATCH US EAT! Booth in Carnegie Tues. Oct. 11 -Thurs. Oct. 13 All Money Goes To The National Prevention Of Child Abuse. Join us for Erealfast, {uncli, ana Suncfay 'Bruncli. !l(eservations lie[pfuL 393-5592 Yl Country :french (jounnet - :Food. Cantfy ana (jift Store . Homecoming Protestant Worship Service Memonal Chapel ·. 10AM DR. WILLIAM GIBSON, GUEST PREACHER Dr. Gibson, a social ethicist, is a member of the Center for Religion, Ethics and Social Polic ATTENTION UPPER CLASS MEAL CARD HOLDERS The Winter Term Meal Plan is approaching rapidly. If there are any changes for winter please contact Rich Bain at Union College Dining Services. If not notified of change your meal plan will remain the same next term. THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the college center. Delivery is free with a purchase of $5.00 or over, or a small pizza. CALL 370-6060 0 . M .. ·E.,. ·c··.:·. o·J . ·. ' . . . • . . . • . • •• ' -. '.'~ < .. · .••.... , ..... . .•. -- ···. . . ·. . . .''· . .., · ... : H .. . .... ~~ .... · ..... ·· . ~. ; • ;- .... - -. • - -~' • ·;~--- ->: •.•:• ' - -.. ..: .. .'·-.-. ' ···:: ·' - \ • - ' ' : -: ' ' •• - '• - '\\ • ' ,.- Please r~sister at the Alu:tnni Office in Lamont House to receive your_ 1989 'Ul.llbn College }')Otket calendar._ Friday a11:d Saturday:. 9~00 a.m. to ();zOO p.m. AtumnL Office Telephone: . (518) 370~6168. . ' The Student ActiVities Information Centet and Box Office in the Coliege Center wi1'lhe ppen Friday and Saturday from 12 noon to.l:OO a.m. , Friday, Octoher 14---------- 8:30 (il,m.~4 :30 p.m. OpeJt Classes. Alutnni. parents and friends. are invited(<> join Union's students~ Class·scb:e'dules are·avaitable at Lamont House . . 3:30 p;m, J~V~ Men's Soccer vs. RPI~. GariS Field .. 4:30 p~m. Men's Cross Country vs .. J.tPJ.Central Park. 6:30 p.m. Annual Fund Appreciatiop Dinner. College Center. Cocktails 6::30 p.m., ., Droner 7;30 p.m. · · 7:0019:00111:00 p.m:Mcvie \Moonstruck\. Auditorium. College Center. Tickets· may ·be purchased at, the Student Activities Box Office, College Center. Sponsored by the Student Film Committee. 8:00 p.-m. Alumni Men's Soccf,lr. Artiii,cial Turf Field. . 8:00 p~m. La:rry 'lkinville~ Major Frank Burns of M* A *S*H will perform in' Memorial ChapeL Sponsored byHhe Student.Speakers Forum. Tickets may be purchased at tl\e Student Activities Box Office. Adults $3.00. ... ' ' ~ Saturday, Oetobe:r·· l5i•: .. •·•···\•·· \ •. iliiliill ........ __ !hOO a.m.-10:3b a.Jtz • .Aa,:Q;uat · .. ·Fund VD-hrt!Jlteer Breakfast/Workshop. Hale House Dining Room. 9:00 a.m.-Noon UniorcCullege A:dm:issio'DS Tape •. Admissions Office.. Becker Hall. Produced by the .Admissions Office for student recruitment. . 9:30 a.m. Breakfast with. the Du.tchm~n Football Team .. West CoHe,ge Dining Joom.Join the 198& squad.and coaches \Dutch Treat\. 10:00 a.m. Women•s Soccer vs .. RPL Oaris Field. · TO:OO a.m. -NoQn, Care.~r Drevelop:ment·' CZtitter Open House. Old Chapel (third floor). Come s.ee Qut new facility, use our resources and/or join the Alumni Career Netw<Jrk to assist students. 10:30 a.m.~Noon . Academic PresenlatiollslRecep- tions. Everyone is invited to join the following faculties to learn what's . new in your major and other areas of interest. I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Classics, English, Modern Languages, Philosophy. Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities .Building. Arts. Atrium. (2nd Floor)_. Arts Building. IL Faculty of the Socia~ Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management InstitUte (fo.rmerly !.A.M.)~ Political Science, Sociology and Anthropolagy . . \America in tbe Post;.Rea.gan Age: Candidate's P:r~c.ts Problem$ff. Room 1.03~ Social Scien(;e.s Building .. . III. Faeulty of the · Sde~ces. Biological ·Sciences, Room 103, Science and Engineering Cen.ter. Chemistry. Room N 116:~ Science and Engineering Center. Geology, Room 201. Butterfi~ld Halt. · Matne~tk$,.~01Thaoo~ »~; ~ ... P~tysics,, RQOnt N H;g~ Sb~e litlld;$11!}i~ring;Cemer. . Psycholo-gy1 Room 204~ PsJehology Ruijd~j. . . ' ' ', .:··· ,_. :. 11 :0() a.m,, Wom~~!s Te:n.Dis> vs. all• :~le~ms Courts .. 11:00 tt.m.--2.:00 p.m. :Lvneh'. :Dutch lt:i)l1iw :Restaurant, College Center. · · · 11:30 a.m.-3.~00p.m,, liomecoming Pienit. Under the Big Tent on Alexander.Freld. Grilled iuncboon specials; cold drinks and much more! Sponsored by Uni{)n's M¢11~s.w Womeifs Lacrosse Teams. 11:30 a.m. Musi-e by ·Uitionts Dutcn Pipers. Lamont House .Porch. 11:45 a.m. Music by Union's Garne:t· Min.strelles. Lamont GET GOING AND RESERVE SEATING FOR DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT Dinner at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant, Saturday, Oct. 15, 1988. Limited seati.ng available at 7:30pm. Dinner features steak, prime rib and seafood. $12.50 per person or ONE PUNCH on your meal card. Reserve your place .NOW! Call #6060 to make your reservation.

.. : ·: :. :.-: .. · ··: . 1988 Page 11 ······••**************•********* i 8RenanWanal i<- 519 Union St. · .H .·. . D . . . \* :t Schenectady a1r '8Signs : * \* t 372-0007 : : , - - - - - .. -- - -COUPON - .. - - - - - - - -. : *' '* * ' . . \* t 2 FO·R 1 SPECIAL : ~ * . * t on all services : ~ t ' including tanning : a *' * * ' . * * : Valid thru Oct. 31st • * ~ . ~ ~ ~----·~------~------·--·---· ~ * * ******************************** o/isage Hair ana Tanning Studio 557 Nott St. 374-0351 Specials of the Month: . all perms are. $10.00 off . nail tips with acrylic are$10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 (}ff asf(jor • Joarr.tt •'Betfi •{je:rt€ ALL YEAR •Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps are $10.00 o·ff TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 !fc_·- can be shared waxing is also available Kers ~Ius }-. 1 :1 .. ~~1) !'. !! .. \;?.S ,~'J'li. ~G'-iJ. ?~-.c.:~ A E R S.-henrcw,h. \Y l~JII~ Q B I c WEAR Womegoing '13runcli at Hale House Dining Room . ......., ·Y Sunday, Oct. 16,1988 Seating at 10 am and 12 Noon. . FREE TO MEAL CARD CONTRACT HOLDERS .. . ' . . FOR 1 PUNCH OR $6.-75 per PERSON Reservations accepted from 2 pm to 4 pm M-F x6617 Don't miss the best brunch in Town! Limited seating still available, Call To_day! --.

CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 11 **************•**************~** :OMING1988 ,; -· ' • ·• - ' - - . \ • • - ' • -_ ···-- ~'.. : ·: :-l!' :-' :- ' ' - '- -. - ' . . ..... • • • '· - - • ·' .- .• • •• i aRenaniEJans i 1t House to . Fridaw 8)14 ·Telephone: ox Office in iay from 12 td friends. are tble at Lamont ttk. e>llege Center. dum. College es Box Office, . i*A*S*H Will ~eakers Forum. Office. Adults ' e. Admissions ice for student I Team. West Jtch Treat' 1 • en House. Old ~esources and/or ; to learn what's assics. English, (2nd Floor), ory, Graduate rtnce, Sociology . ge: Candidate's Room 103, ~r. l:S. turant, COllege lbe Big Tent on and much more! . ..-am{)nt House elles. Lamont 1 i:4s a.td.. T.;rrate <:olineil LlllM!Iteon. IZ:QO N,ctJn ReUs C~Ul(!Ctrt by -Peter K. Sm\th '70. Memorial Cliapet , ·. · · ,. · ·. : .·. ·· . . ·· · lZ:OO NaQn a.A. ReUnion. Noon end of Football Field. 12:15 p.m. A.llUllal Homecoming Parade. _ 12:50 p.m. M(!Jlt$. S<Jeeer vs. BPI. Garis Field. 1:$0 p.m. F.o-otbalJ .. Un!on vs.. R.PI,. President John ~- Morris will prese:ut the S:tephenr P. Brown Meworial Trophy and Float Awards at halftime~. . ·· 4:()() p~m.~!K:OO p .. m.. Presideu.t 1 !i Ree1lption. Everyone is invi~ to join Pr~sident apq ~- Morris Qn Sch.affer Lil>rary Plaza (or Old Chapel if the weather is 'inclement). Musical entertainment provided by the Union - Conege Ct>ncert, Ba:ttd , 5 :()1) p.m.Ai:O(:)p.m .. Legacy Re~ejltion .. LATE AFTERNOON AND EVENING FRATERNITY AND SORORITY l:JOMIC.OMlNG PARTIR$. · 5::30 p.m.:6:.3(} p.m. \The Japan Elperience,. Humanities Building. Room 019. Kevin Irland *89 and Profesror William Thomas will lead this interesting discus:sion on Union's term abroad in Japan. Presentation includes a slide. show and snacks from Japari. Free admission. 6:30 .p .. m. Sttu;lent Alu.m:ni. A:sso:dat.ion Di~.ner. Hale House Dinifig Room. Joill :the ftrSt annual Hollle~C;oming dinner sponsored: by the Student Alnmtni. Association. Student entertainment. Dinner Buffet $14.25 ,per PQrson .. L~niited Sl».:lting; testu:vations re4llired. . 7:3() p.m. \llutdtrnen's Dinner.- DutCh Hollow Restaurant, C{)llege Center. Menu features nouvelle cuisine m addition to prime rib. steak and seafood. $12.50perperson. Limited~ reservations required. 7:00J9;{)01Jl :()() p~m. Movie \Mo4lnstruek'\ Auditorium, College ~t¢1'. . . . . . -- . 8:00 . p.m.. < til1iOn College Ch~ir Annual Homecoming .CQJ:~;~Qrt;. Mem~rial Chapel. · 9:00 p.m ... Midnight. Homeco~iag Dance. Upperclassmenls Dining Room~ CoUe8~ Center. Live entertainment by Tiu{ Joneses and also Charlie T and the Or~ds (lead by Professor Cbrules Tidmarcb). Cash bar. munchies and door prmes including the Grand Prize · a weekend for two to Stowe. VT. * FREE adooissioa. Dress is casuaL Y.ou must be· prese~t to win all t;ttjzes~ - ···~ . *John ll-~ '42 has generously donat-eda<XX)Jllmoqatiops at his inn. Baas' Gaustellflt1s. Sunday~ O~tober l6--.-~~~~~a~------- 9:oo a.m.-Noon. Homegoing Bl'llncb. Hale House Dining Room. Adults $6.15, Under 12 $5.00. Limited Seating; reservations required. 10::00 a.m. Homecoming Chapel Service. Memorial Chapel. Preaching; Dr. William E. Gibson from Cornell University's Center for Religion., Ethics and Social Policy. · 7 :00!9:00111 :GO p.m. Movie nMo&.nstruek'*. Auditorium, College Center. > ' Arts Exltihit. First and Second Fl~rs, Arts Building. Student, alumni and facult9' works will be on display Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 a.m • , to 4:00 p.rn. Admissions ·Interviews,. The Admissions Office will be open all day Friday ami on Saturday from 9:00 a.m. t<J Noon specifically for interviews with alumni sons $ld daughters. Please contact the Admissions Office for an appointmellt at least two weeks in adva11ce: (518) 370-6112. Campous Store. College Center. Friday 8:45 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. and _ 8aun'day ~O;OO; a:.m; t() 4t00 1'••· West. (;.0llege Dining· Han and Upperclassm~n·s Dining ~m. Friday, 'October 14 and Saturday, October 15 Dinner: 5:00p.m. to 6:30p.m. · ·· Parlt1llg. ·· Please :use the lot on the t:omer of Seward Place and Nott -Street amdilihe lot behind MemQrial Field House. Campus roadways are classified as Fire Lanes and must be kept clear. Accommooatians alld Child Care. If you desire a list of area m<>tds out list <lf students whom yoa may contact for a babysitter during .the weeket1d, ploose call the Alumni Office one month in advance at (51&) 370~6165 .. Remeaber ReUnion Weekend 1989 June 9, •u & 11 ~ 519 Union St. · H . D . : : Schenectady a1r 8SIQnS * * * * 372-0007 * * * ~ ,-- --- - -- - -COUPON - - - - - - -- - -~ ~ Ti' ., * I * *' I* :; 2 FOR 1 SPECIAL : ~ * I * :t ' on all services : ~ £ ' including tanning : t * * * I I * * Validthru0ct.31st '* * ·--------------------------~ * * * ******************************** o/isage J{air ana 'Tanning Stuaio 557 Nott St. 374-0351 Specials of the Month: all perms are $10.00 off nail tips with acrylic are $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off ask._for • Joann •r.Betfi •yene ALL YEAR • Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps are $10.00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 can be shared waxing is also av;Jibble neaKers ~Ius ---- -------' spons'Nftlr ...rJ'v'./\/ ,_!\ .:.---; .-~..,_ ~~- ,s'/c,T<'--:. {\o·/' . A'\~,~ ~' 1 T I i< •• (l merchandise t~ • I O\'r off on an~·1 V ALL Student~ 8~3 \lrCielhn St. :ichenecwdv. \Y 1~3tlH 372~4932 frc.....-r---rr;];?/[' '' A E R 0 B I c WEAR :J{omegoing 'Brunch at Hale House Dining Room '-\ Sunday, Oct. 16, 1988 Seating at 10 am and 12 Noon. FREE TO MEAL CARD CONTRACT HOLDERS FOR 1 PUNCH OR $6.75 per PERSON Reservations accepted from 2 pm to 4 pm M-F x6617 __ Don't miss the best brunch in Town! Limited seating still available, Call Today!

• \ . Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS October 13, 1988 ' . ' . - . . . . . . . ' . . : ' - . . . ~- . . \ . - - . . - . ' - ' -. - ' . . INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Portrait of the Week: ·Nad:ia Duvrlaire· Fight-01 By NICOLAS BOCH everyone knew each other. in l her neighborhood. Her grandmother lived in the same house with the rest of her · !amily, as well. Nadia had no idea of what a retirement house was before she moved to the United States. Haiti is a small country in the Caribbean. lt is located to the southeast of Cuba and has a common border with the Dominican Republic. In Port. au-Prince, the capital, the streets are wide and usually covered with dust and sand. In the afternoon, they often are . ll' the playground of children who amuse themselves with a soccer baH. On both sides of the street white and brown houses are surrounded by large gardens. For most of us, this picture i3 might only be the exotic ~ memory of a ten-day break at · ~ the endofthe winter. However, .~ for Nadia Duvilaire, this!~ describes her hometown, where ~ she lived for over fifteen years. iii LU tr Nadia has a different status ::) from either exchange students 8 or the full-time foreign students. She is a permanent resident of the United States. She arrived in New York City in 1982, where she finished high school. She came to America to live with her mother, who had left Haiti a few years earlier. When Nadia was still on the island, she had never thought about leaving for New York. She organized her life as if she · were going to live in Haiti forever. She got involved in many activities that took place in Port-au-Prince. For example, she was an active member of the Baptist church. Overall, Haitians have a strong sense of community and family. Nadia remembes that Nadia Duvilaire In Haiti, she was very interested in her studies. Literature and Modern Languages were the tw.o subjects she liked the most. Ftench is the official language, but Creole is the language spoken on the street. Obviously, she is fluent in the two languages and therefore, she can read botll literatures. Among the things she hated the most, water was the worst of all.- Even thougll she was living on an island~ she never went swimming. New York City is the complete oppos_ite of her hometown. Here she discovered stress and loneliness. Nadia was scared and excited as she discovered the gate of the new Ben Ferenze to Spe~ at Union By KEVIN HONIKEL World Peace is a subject that affects everyone. and this Friday, October 14, Union will be host to a renowned author on the subject, Mr. Benjamin Ferencz. Ferencz served as a prosecutor at the Nuremburg war crime trials, and has since authored numerous books on international relations and methods for achieving world peace. Among his works are: Defining International Aggression: The Search , for World Peace, An International Criminal Court: A Step Toward World P·eace, Enforcing International Law: A Way to World Peace, A Common Sense Guide to World Peace, and Planethood. At this time, Benjamin Ferencz is Adjunct Profe~sor of International Law at Pace University. Ferencz will be speaking on campus in Memorial Chapel at 1 p.m., and his talk will center on the role of college students in creating a peaceful world. The talk is being co- sponsored by the International House and the International Students' Union. French Movie: ''Jlscenseur Pour L''EclianfaU:t£\'(1988) by Louis Malle With Jeanne Moreau and Maurice Robert English Subtitles Oct. 17 at 7:30 PM Mobile Lounge CC 406. Sponsored by FRENCH CLUB world. After -a while, she . realized that American society was very ·individualistic. No one knew each other in the neighborhood. Even in her high school she felt apart from the American students. After she graduated, valedictorian in her class, she decided to apply to Union. Today, even thaugh She has become totally integrated with American society, she still feels her Haitian roots. However, the ·common .origin of her people is Africa; that she has not forgotten. Actually she I ' loves Africa · and aU its . traditions. For example, Nadia believes that African rhythm in . dancing is the most effective form of relaxation. Singing brings her a lot ·Of pleasure as well. When she lived in Haiti she performed with many choirs. Over the years, she has . developed a beautiful voice. · However, she would not want to sing for a living. She prefers to share her talent with the Union students. only once in a while. Students accepted for next fall's TERM A~'ROAD to Bath are now requested to take ONE~ of the following courses: ENGLISH 19, 20, 21 HISTORY ·47, 48 The course may be taken at . ' . - any time before the student . participates in the program, not necessarily in the preceeding term. Write for CONCORDIENSIS :· x6155 , the -duties of an. American By LOIU ANI):ERSON · fraternity p1edge. These rituals are seen as initiation rites used My decision to join~a track to establish team unity~ lt is team in Japan was based on not uncommon at all to hear many factors, .primarily, my the term \sempaf\ (senior) love of the \team experience.\ substituted for _a name even This includes a v.ariety of among close friEmds outside of thi:ngs besides the aspects of practice. meet competition. It involves · Membership. in a club or team s apport, .s:ocial team becomes a main element dimensions, and a big in one's identity, for being part co~mit:ln:ent. Teams dlffer of a Japanese- team inv9lves drastically in these respects total emotional participation. from one another even in the In this respect, it is hard to same country. The· chance to distinguish the transition• point become a teammate in Japan; a between group life and private country ·nated for its group life. So close is ·this team orientation, gave me the rare bond, a member is delegated as opportunity to see first-hand · . the cortespondent of former the differences in ·the team teammates. When I was .there, structure of the two cul~ures. fifty people were on the·· -The most surprising· mailing ·list, some of whom diffet:ence was the absence ofa graduated ten years ago. coach. The duties of a coach in As I .researched the dynamics America (planning practices, of the team, I was able to arranging meets, and even the better understand the differences financial concerns) had been between my Kansai Gaidai dispensed among the hierarchy track team and the Union,Track of te·am leaders, who had been team. The topics of leadership, · chosen on the s.ole basis of seniority, · and social seniority. relationships are all interesting In America, captains are selected by a teain vote, Upper- classmen are usually, though not necessarily, respected simply for their ability and year~ of experience. This respect, ho~ever, must be earned and is for the most part an underlying factor in the relationship. To the Japanese, seniority plays a very important role in the social interactions of the teammates. Freshmen, the low men on the totem pole, are .assigned \chores\, much like · points of discussion; but, there is also 3 cultlll'aldifference tha:t cannot go without mention. In response to many of my questions, my teammates answered, \It!s. the Japanese way.\ It would take years of research to understand all 'the implicatons of this comment, but this response did increase my awareness ·Of cultural influences. I would have never· .thought of answering a track- related question with, \that's how Americans do it\ Though I now realize, in many cases, that's the best answer there is . INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By ANTHEE CARASSAV 4S . \Which International CuiSine Do you Prefer the Most?\ Kate Nunan (90) • Italian. I love Chef Boyardee Beef R .. ,.,,. ' aVIO I •. Leonie Robinson (90) - Personally, 1 like Jamaican cuisine because it's delectable. The national dish, Ackee and Salt fish is tantalizing to one' s taste buds. · Kevin Honikel (90) - To be honest, I have come to favor Amish cuisine, due to its unique flavor. I don't think people have given Amish cooking a fair shake - It really grows on you, like moss, one of their favorite dishes. Ellen Bevda. ·(90) - Being the diplomat that I am, I will no.t favor one cuisine in particular. The ideal meal would ·begin with a Greek salad complimented by a French wine, followed by a Ch.inese supper, topped off with a good, old American pie. And don't forget the Italian Espresso with dessert. Darren Binder (90) - I don't prefer any country's food in particular, but I am turned off by Polish food after the Dining Service had \Polish Night\ last year. The ,Modern ~ngauge Department Presents A Lecture On: ~ WRITE . I .. Moliere's Last Supper: Meaning A~d Materiality i·n Les Femmes . Savantes Et Le M~lade lmaginai re\ By Professor Ronald Tobin University of California in Santa Barbara Oct. 18 at 8:00PM. In HUM 117 FOR INTER- NATIONAL FEATURES

L I CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Page 13 :Remini-s-cenc,es O'f .. ·Anna~: A'khmatova B:f SHELLEY SZYMKO Well known Russian poet, 'e~sayist, and translator Anatoly Naiman delivered a lecture on the memoirs .of Anna Akhmatova · on _Wednesday, October 5. Faculty, students_,. and invited guests listened · intently to Nai.matl's words. for Naiman spoke in English and not in his native rtongue. · Naiman glorified Ak:hmatova~s works of Russia,n culture. Her work \Requiem'' described the tragic Russian· terror of when Akhmatova was sent to labor camps and held ltostage by her son. At this time, her ·literary work ·was absent in Russia. In \The Last Toast,\ Akhmatova spoke of'' a cold and brutal world, one of l<meliness\ --expressive of her feelings when left by her h\l.sband. 'Her work -had its greatest Influence in the early 60's until her death in 1966. Naiman depicted Akhmatova as a \stunning grandiose W<:>man--the image of a classical statue.\ Her poetry seemed to whisk thro11gh her, Naiman h~d ~aid.· When asked how much his lite was influenced by Akbm~tova, Mr. Naiman had difficulty expressing himself. \It is not a simple answer.· I continue to 'have conversations with her. Not mystical conversations. I hear her wor:ds in another sense.-one previous meaning now has another.\ In essence, Anatol:y Naiman's writings ate not his lllorte, but of a dialogue with Anna. 'Naiman's poetry remains unknown in the Soviet Union at present. Fof the most part, these works exist in manuscript form. f()ftunately, Mr. Naiman's first collection will be published :by the American publishing house \Hermitage.\ The Union College community would like to thank the Modern Languages Department for making this lecture possible. This Week in the World By SHELLEY SZYMKO . Source: The Wall Street Journal {10/04- 10/10) Vietnam: Vietnam -will pull out 5();000. soldiers from Cambodia by year end. The rai~y season has slowed . the . withdrawal, ·deS:pite word that critics of Hanoi's occ11pation dampened the effort. Vietnam has vowec;l. to completely withdraw troops by 1990. - Yugoslavia: 100,000 protestors demanding Comml!-nist .. party leaders to resign from the Politburo of the Vojvodie . province were successfpl in their plea. These resignatioJls may prompt increased control of the autonomous -province through leadership changes in;(b.e .national party and the six. repu.blics. West Germany: Bavarian premier. Franz Strauss died -of pulmonary· complications at the age of seventy-three. Once a leading figure in Germany's postwar transformation, Strauss' death couid now stir up problems for Chancellor Kohl in his bid to retain power. South Korea: A hc:>liday amnesty constituted the release of more than 1,000 prisoners, fifty-two of whom were .political offenders. Publisher Lee Tae Bok was among those released. The opposition is not yet appeased because only one-tenth of all political prisoners have been freed. Lybia and Chad:. Lybia and Chad ended a fifteen-year desert war. A joint comtnunique .stated that tile two governments would set up full missions in each other's capitals by the end of the month. A September 1987 cease-fire ended fighting at their disputed border. Pakistan: Pakistani president Ishag Khan vowed to punish gunmen who killed 182 people in Hyderabad last Friday. Claiming that.he knows who is responsible for the violent bid to create instability, Khan stated tl1at November's .elections would take place,as schedulett Rhotunda: Rhotund leader Ova Waite m.ade his first forceful statements about Margaret Thatcher's economic policy in the western peninsula. Claiming .that Thatcber is an expansionist threat and has no table manners, Waite promised to make Britain an island by the end of next week . . LANGUAGE TABLES FRENCH---Monday ·12:45- ·1 :45 SPANJSH- Tuesday 11:45--12:45 RUSSIAN AND GEHMAN- Wednesday 12:45-1 :45 · IT ALlAN-- Thursday 11:45-12:45 . JAPANESE~onday 12:45-1 :45 · All Language Tables will be··in 111e College Center Upperclassmen's Dining Hail. Anyo-ne not on the meal 1 plan can buy· lunch downstairs in the Pub anld bring it up · or \brown-bag\ it.. • INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ISU Gives Reception By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS The fourth annual reception of the I.S.U. (International . Student Union) took place in Milano Lounge on- Monday, October 10. As planned, the night began at 7:30 p.m. The attendanc,e and interest exhibited by the students of Union as well as its faculty, and members of the Administration was very pleasing, tn the beginning, so as to \break the ice,\ studen~ and faculty ·chatted while they indulged in samples of various foods from the international buffet. Note that niost of the food was prepared by international. students, but a sincere \thank you\ should also be granted to the school's Dining Service which, in these instances, produces a delicious cuisine unfamiliar to its every day \specials.\ Nevertheless, around 8:30 the entertainment began. The means this year which the club chose to shed an international flair and sense of culture within the grounds of Union, was through a series of traditional folk-dances. At the top of the list was an Armenian dance. George Nakhapetyan, a visiting student from the Soviet Union, talked about the d~kce itself being a customary performance of the brid,e and groom in celebration and recognition of their wedding. As the groom leads the dance, the bride is placed at .the end of a chain of people closely bonded together by their arm positions. To the bride is given a piece of cloth which she waves until a particular moment in which she comes to the center of the circle created by the celebrants, and drops the cloth to the floor. It is at this time in which the INTERNATIONAL INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS .-..WORLDWIDE EXCHANGES FOR PROFESSIONALS Seattle . . .with mounting interest in Japan, International Internship Programs (liP) is offering to college students and faculty an exceptional and inexpensive approach to learning about the peoples, language and culture of Japan. Through liP's \International Gateway Program\ individuals are invited to live with a Japanesse . \host\ family for one month, and pursue individual objectives. For $1500, each applicant receiVes a homestay plus two me~ls daily for one month with a possible extension, orienta- lion in Tokyo, medical and accidental insurance, and support material. A refundable . deposit ·Of $250 will start your application and begin the search for your Mhost\ family. All participants are responsible for their own airfare. College credit can be arranged given certain criteria are satisfied. Applicants can depart. at anytime of the year, but please check with our Seattle office for further infor.mation. 406 Colman .Building., 811 First Avenue, Seattle Washington 98104. Or dial our Toll Free No: 1 800~333-2225; enter 937 after tone. participants depart and leave the groom in a festive mode of dancing, as his main objective is to pick up the handkerchief with his teeth. Believe me, this task does not seem as the simplest thing to do, for you have to undergo great \strain\ and perform great \maneuvers\ so as to get that piece of cloth in your mouth without using your hands. A strong hand of applause was .given to the people who took part in the dance and for George's. sense of humour. Laura Calvi, Benedikt Blunschi, and I (who was at the end portraying the bride) struggled greatly throughout the Armenia~ dance, for its steps were probably the most difficult to follow. In continuation, two Greek folk dances were performed. Explaining to the audience that a great number of the dancers in Greece are a. \communal\ act, I asked for some volunteers. The name of the first dance was Hasaposerviko, and though as complex as it may sound it .actually proved to be very easy for Laura Calvi, Cristina Calvi, Benedikt Blunschi, and Kevin Honikel, wh() helped out. In the midst of trying to fmd the music for the second dance- Tsiftetelli- a brief description was given as to how it is perf<>t:med in its most \provocative\ form,. so that the wo:man who is the \protagonist\ can lure men and possible future husbands. Its exhibition, however, was done in a \mild\ form, and President Morris, though unrestrained from his wife, preferred to remain \faithful\ to her as an attempt was made to \lure\ him within the dancing arena. Ironically, however, in a later humorous and extremely warm conversation that we had with the president and his wife, he proposed that an \upgrading of the form\ be displayed in the dance's future performance. Last, Primavera Salva Arvide and Synnove Smeets entertained the audience with the Salsa: a Latin American dance. Though Primavera stated, \There are no specific steps. You just dance as to however you feel...\ I simply add that a lot of \hip movement\ is indeed needed. The whole audience leaped onto the dance floor and \Salsaed\ until the end of the reception. Sitting down, trying to catch my 'breath from the Greek dances, I observed that the scene was very touching. Persons of a multitude of ·nationalities were loomed together in such a way that they produced a great source of ''light\ which brightened up the low keyhed atmosphere of the Milano Lounge. Laughter was heard everywhere. People were \bopping\ at their own modes, but were in complete synchronization with the overall \beat of friendship, and universality.\ It was a time in which everyone was so absorbed in this cultural display, ·that although its duration might not have been long, they seem to have been detached from their everyday problems and realities. It seems like all of them before coming to . the reception read and became stimulated by one of Shakespeare's most popular quotes, \Our doubts are traitors that make us loose the goad we oft might win by fearing to attempt.\ All of their doubts had probably diminished so as to directly engage in this festive surrounding. No one cared how they looked while they were trying to dance the Armenian, Greek, and most of all, the Latin American dance. They gained a \good\ which they are now able to appreciate and understand more. To this I salute ISU. Its significance is . appreciating, understanding and acknowledging culture is significant for Union. Again, congratulations, and may many more be those who will gain the \good\ of the club itself. ISU TABLE Friday 12:30 to 1 :30 THE TERM ABROAD TO THE SOVIET UNION will start in the Fall of1989. This program is primarily intended for Russian Language students, however it is not limited to them. Any student fluent in a language spoken in the Soviet Union (Estonian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Armenian, Georgian, etc.) is eligible. For more information, contact the Terms Abroad Office.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS October 13, 1988 .ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Soap of the Week All My Children By CAMERON, ANNE, and LAURA MOST PATHETIC C.HARACTER: Skye for pretending to .be a quadraplegic in order to hold onto her husband, Tom ..... who is cheating on her, bvt is sick of her anyway. Skye is now thinking, .ih a very unsportsmanlike manner, about killing her competition, Barbara. She tried to poison Barbara's ragweed pills in Friday's cliffhanger but was thwarted by Tom's untimely arrival. MOST CONFUSING PLOT: Remington, Angie and Tad. Whaes going on? Does anyone care? ~ · MOST MAKEUP BY A·SINGLE ARliST: Phoebe Wallingford, who apparently hasn't aged after first coming on the show in 1887. Now weknowwhv. MOSTINSIGNIFICANTSETIING: Niko's Club. MOST FITTING COSTUME: Cecily's bunny outfit. . TRIVIA QUESTION OF lHE WEEK: How many of Erica's husbands <;an you name? MOST PERTINENT QUESTIONS: 1. Will Cliff and Angie unite in \All My CHildren's first interracial relationship?\ 2. Will Jeremy and Natalie find their dream house before Natalie becomes involved in yet another marriage, rape, or murder? 3. Will Palmer be sodomized in prison, as he certainly deserves to be? 4. Will Brooke and Adam continue to haunt the fertility ward or will they end in divorce before conception? The 1'00L P'resents: Peter Kla.ppert This Thursday, October is, at 8:00. in the Humanities Faculty Lounge, the widely published American poet, Peter Klappert will be giving a reading from his works. Klappert is a widely published and critically acclaimed poet. Of K:lappert, William. Gass said; in response to a USA Today question of what various writers intended to read and what they recommended to others, \I am Petef Klappert going to re-read and I has given readings and recommend your readers read workshops at more than 200' Peter Klappers's wondedul universities and colleges and he long p~m, 'The Idio,t Princess released a tape of his reading in oftheLastDynasty!\' 1984, available OJ) Watershed Klappert is the author of five - Tapes. , books of poetry and his works The reading is free and open have appeared in Harper's aad to the entire · colleg.e the Atlantie Monthly. He community. 5. Will Nlko marry or even live with Julie before she bores him to death? 6. And finally, with Stu art's wife be the world's only perpetually surviving AIDS victim? Or will she instead :Wake from a dream sequence and discover that she's only had gonorrhea all.along? Hollywood Fax For the Answers to these questions and more, tune into \ AH my Children\ weekdays on ABC at 1:00. Or better yet, don't. THEATRE FEST SCHEDULE Wed. 19th Lunch time with the Court Gestures at West 2nd Annual Campus Wide TaJent Show 8:00 pm Memorial Chapel Thurs. 20th Court Gestures Mountebanks Cabaret/Puppet Theatre 9:00 pm College Center Atrium ... Fri. 21st Dinner Theatre: Overtones by Alice Gerstenberg Upper Class Dining Hall, College Center Sat. 22nd Dinner Theatre: Overtones by Alice Gerstenberg - Upper Class Dining Hall, College Center TONIGHT - MOUNTEBANKS CABERET and PUPPET THEATRE With your hosts: Craig Summers & Derek Berry Special guests: Court Gestures ~ at the College Genter Atrium N i,ckota,s By ANDREW COLLINS and MICHAEL SILBERSTEIN Wonder where Ralph Macchio bas been lately? Well, after the performance he put on in Ka~ate Kid II (Geez ... can't believe he didn't get nominated for anythng ... ) he took a small vacation. However, he's back and with John Litbgrow (goodbye, Pat Morita!) in Paramount's fall release of Distant Thunder. Lithgow plays a Vietnam vet experiencing civilization after a 15-year absence, only to discover he has a son (Macchio) ... Kevin B a co o · is also making a comeback with Criminal Law. He co-stars with Gary Oldman. Oldman plays Ben Chase, while Bacon plays his client Martin Thiel. It seems J:'hiel goes wild with a butcher knife and Chase has to defend him ... hinmmm, Jason goes to court? Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy having last co-starred in Pretty in Pink, return with the Weintraub Entertainment picture, Fresh Horses. Ringwald plays a seductive (seductive? Molly Ringwald?) married woman who encounters McCarthy, a college senior ... Nice to see Terry Garr making headlines. She stars with John Lithgow and Randy Quaid in the offbeat private eye flick Out Cold ... Wi lli'a m ll ur t and- TON'LCiKT At 8:00 A read.in•J from hts \'or~ tn U:utnai.ttes :Facu[ty Lounqe ' 'LDOL ~eettn9 FottoM~in9 Kathleen Turner .star wi-tli Geena Davis in Warner Brother's The Acciden:tal Tourist, in which Hu.rt learns to enjoy life again after the death of his son and his wife (Turner) ... How does th.is sound for a cast list: Madonna, Jennifer Grey, Matt Dillon and Rand :y Quaid? Well, it's true and it's entitled The Blood:hounds of Broaclway. It appears to .. be about a bU1J.ch of Broadway actors and their relationships with one another. What a great choice, Madonna, for a movie about relationships!. .. Peter O'Toole, Daryl Hannah. and Steve Guttenberg, star in the November release of High . Spirl ts. The film centers around O'Toole's Irish castle and his quest to bring tourists by claiming i~ is haunted... Jon Lovitz, after lying his way through Saturday Night Live, stars with Dan Akroyd and Kim Basinger in Weintraub Ente.rtainment's My Stepmother is an Aliell. With a $16 million dollar budget, hopefully it __ will be a smash... Bill Murray is finally back, and just in time for Christmas. He stars in Scrooged, a comedy centering around Murray's character of a Scrooge-like television executive. :Bob Goldthwait and Robert Mitcbum also star ... December brings us th~ long-awaited Tom Cruise/Dustin Hoffman project, Rainm~n. Hopefully, it won't be a cross of Cocktail and I!thtar sh~en and served in a shot glass ... And now, A roo l d Shwarzeneg.ger and Danny Devito as Twins. This. film is due out in December from Universal. .. Unforgetta.ble starring Cybil Shepherd and Robert. Downey, Jr. is also due in. December. In it, Shepherd is trying to get qyer her late husband, but ··is distracted by her daughter's boyfriend (Downey, Jr.), who is actually her husband experiencing another life ... Finally,- Mystic Pizza, actually set in Mystic, CT, is a love story starring Julia Roberts, Lili Taylor, and Annabeth Gish ... How about a quick John Denver update? It seems for $10 milion dollars, Denver can fly into space with the U.S.S.R. Denver says he'll do it if they waive the fee: Country Road in outer space (Where it should be) ... Finally, UB40's \Red Red Wine\ is back on the charts again. Because of listener interest, Phoenix radio station, KKFR- FM, decided to resurrect the song. It seems its rival station followed suit and then. slowly, the whole country did ... Well that about raps it up. Take care of yourself and if you .have any feedback, send it to: Box 390. Otherwise, see you next week, .same Bat .channel, same Bat time. MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS ... Oo/E1J.f[Of!.[f£S by !ll..fi.c.e (jersten6urg Dinner Theatre at the Upperclass Dining Hall in the College Center. Free with meal card punch (those not on meal plan tan pay cash) Friday, October 21st and Saturday, Octobe,r 22nd f .

Page 14 CONCORDIENSlS October 13, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Soap of the Week All My Children By CAMERON, ANNE, and lAURA MOST PAlHETIC CHARACTER: Skye for pretending to be a quadraplegic in order to hold onto her husband, Tom -Who is cheating on ~er, but is sick of her anyway. Skye is now thinking, in a very unsportmanlil<e manner, about killing. her competition, Barbara. She t~ied to poison Barbara's ragweed pills in Friday's cliffhanger but was thwarted ~Y Tom's untimely arrival. MOST CONFUSING PLOT: Remington, Amgie and Tad. What 1 s going on? Does anyone care? MOST MAKEI!IP BY ASINGLE ARTIST: Phoebe Wallingford, who apparently hasn't aged after first coming on the show in 1887. Now weknowwhv. MOST INSIGNIFICANT SETIING: Niko's Club. MOST FITTif\IG COSTUME: Cecily's bunny outfit . TRIVIA QUESTION OF THE WEEK: How many of Erica's husbands can you name! MOST PERTINENT QUESTIONS: 1. Will Cliff and A.ngie unite in \All My CHildren's first interracial relationship?\ 2. Will Jerp.rny and Natalie lind their dream house before Natalie becomes involved in yet another marriage, rape, or murder? 3. Will Palmer be sodomized in prison, as he certainly deserves to be? 4. Will Brooke and Adam continue to haunt the fertility ward or will they end in divorce before conception? T'he IDOL Presents: ,Peter Kla,ppert This Thursday, October 18, at 8:00 in the Humanities Faculty Lounge, the widely published American poet, Peter Klappert will be giving a reading from his works. Klappert is a widely published and critically acclaimed poet. Of Klappert, William Gass said, in response to a USA T()day question of what various writers intended to read and what they recommended to others, \I am Peter Klappert goiflg to re-read and I has given readings and recommend your readers read workshops at more than 200' Peter Klappers 's wonderful universities and colleges and he long pQt!m, 'The Idiot Princess released a tape of his reading in of the Last Dynasty!\' 1984, avaHable on Watershed Klappert is the author of five Tapes. · books of poetry and his works The reading is free and open have appeared in Harper's.and to the entire college the Atlantic Monthly. He C0111Inunity. 5. Will Niko marry or even live with Julie before she bores him to death? 6. And finally, with Stuart's wife be the world's only perpetually surviving AIDS victim? Or will she instead wake from a dream sequence ancidiscover that she's only had gonorrhea all along? Hollywood Fax For the Ansvvers to these questions and more, tune into n All my Children\ weekdays on ABC at 1 :00. Or better yet, don't. THEATRE FEST SCHEDULE Wed. 19th Lunch time with the Court Gestures at West 2nd Annual Campus Wide Talent Show 8:00 pm Memorial Chapel Thurs. 20th Court Gestures Mountebanks Cabaret/Puppet Theatre 9:00 pm College qente r Atrium Fri. 21st Dinner Theatre: Overtones by Alice Gerstenberg Upper Class Dining Hall, College Center Sat. 22 nd Dinner Theatre: Overtones by Alice Gerstenberg Upper Class Dining Hall, College Center -TONIGHT- MOUNTEBANKS CABERET and PUPPET THEATRE With your hosts: Craig Summers & Derek Berry Special guests: Court Gestures at the College Center Atrium Ni,cho~a,s By ANDREW COLLINS and MICHAEL SILBERSTEIN Wonder where Ralph Macchio has been lately? Well, after the petiormance he put on in Karate Kid II (Geez ... can't believe he didn't get nominated for anythng ... ) he took a small vacation. However, he's back and with John Lithgrow (goodbye, Pat Morita!) in Paramount's fall release of Distant Thunder. Lithgow plays a Vietnam vet experiencing civilization after a 15-year absence, only to discover he has a son (Macchio) ... Kevin Bacon is also making a comeback with Criminal Law. He co-stars with Gary Oldman. Oldman plays Ben Chase, while Bacon plays his client Martin Thiel. It seems Thiel goes wild with a butcher knife and Chase has to defend him ... hmmmm, Jason goes to court? M()lly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy having last co-starred in Pretty in Pink, return with the Weintraub Entertainment picture, Fresh Horses. Ringwald plays a seductive (seductive? Molly Ringwald?) married woman who encounters McCarthy, a college senior ... Nice to see Terry Garr making headlines. She stars with John Lithgow and Randy Quaid in the offbeat private eye flick Out Cold ... William Hurt and TON'LllHT at 8:00 A. reacLin9 from his lVOT~ in ~urna,ities :Facu[ty Lou..n9e 'LDOL neeti,ng Fo££o~Vi.n9 II II Kathleen Turner star with Geena Davis in Warner Brother's The Accidental Tourist, in which Hurt learns to enjoy life again after the death of his son and his wife (Turner) ... How does this sound for a cast list: Madonna, Jennifer Grey, Matt DilJon and Randy Quaid? Well, it's true and it's entitled The Bloodhounds of Broadway. It appears to be about a bunch of Broadway actors and their relationships with one another. What a great choice, Madonna, for a movie about relationships! ... Peter O'Toole, Daryl Hannah and Steve Guttenberg, star in the November release of High Spirits. The film centers around O'Toole's Irish castle and his quest to bring tourists by claiming it is haunted... Jon Lovitz, after lying his way through Saturday Nig.ht Live, stars with Dan Akroyd and Kim Basinger in Weintraub Entertainment's My Stepmother is an Alien. With a $16 million dollar budget, hopefully it will be a smash... Bill Murray is finally back, and just in time for Christmas. He stars in Scrooged, a comedy centering around Murray's character of a Scrooge-like television executive. Bob Goldthwait and Robert Mitchum also star ... December brings us the long-awaited Tom Cruise/Dustin Hoffman project, Rainman. Hopefully, it won't be a cross of Cocktail and Ishtar shaken and served in a shot glass ... And now, A r n o I d Shwarzenegger and Danny Devito as Twins. This film is due out in December from Universal. .. Unforgettable starring Cybil Shepherd and Robert Downey, Jr. is also due in December. In it, Shepherd is trying to get over her late husband, but is distracted by her daughter's boyfriend (Downey, Jr.), who is actually her husband experiencing another life ... Finally, Mystic Pizza, actually set in Mystic, CT, is a love story starring Julia Roberts, Lili Taylor, and Annabeth Gish ... How about a quick John Denver update? It seems for $10 milion dollars, Denver can fly into space with the U.S.S.R. Denver says he'll do it if they waive the fee: Country Road in outer space (where it should be) ... Finally, UB40's \Red Red Wine\ is back on the charts again. Because of listener interest, Phoenix radio station, KKFR- FM, decided to resurrect the song. It seems its rival station followed suit and then slowly, the whole country did ... Well that about raps it up. Take care of yourself and if you have any feedback, send it to: Box 390. Otherwise, see you next week, same Bat channel, same Bat time. MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS ... Oo/t£1\7'09{'£.5 6y Yl.fice (jersten6urg Dinner Theatre at the Upperclass Dining Hall in the College Center. Free with meal card punch (those not on meal plan can pay cash) Friday, October 21st and Saturday, October 22nd

I I I CONClJRDIENSIS October 13, 1988 Page lS A .. · ·R .. ·T···· ··s· ··.··&··.ENTERTAINMENT ·~ -------------------------------·1111:----------------------~~ Fish Tales: A Review of '~ Fish Called Wqnda'' By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor \A Fish Called Wanda\ is a wonderfully entertaining fih-n starring John· Cleese, Michael :Palin, Kevin Kline· and Jamie Lee Cu:rtis. · Cleese stars as a mild-mannered English lawyer w;ho becomes involved with a ring of thieves while defending the head of the gang. Curtis plays the gang leader's girlfriend who seduces Cleese in order to get information, and · Kline is a cruel, ;but hilarious sadist, who masquerades as her brother. Palin, lastly, 'is the· loyal, stuttering animal !over and hitman . .On the whole, the co~bination or a great script by Cleese and good acting by · the characters renders the movie extremely entertaining and , :enjoyable. The characters in \A Fish. Called Wanda\ are the film's greatest asset; Kline, :in particular, is wonderful as the NITEAT THE RACES Saratoga 2-D.ay . 10-13-88 with Phi Gamma Delta meet at the house at 7:00 hyperactiv.e psychotic .. His imitations of the stuttering Palin are hysterical, and his constant warnings to others not to caH him stupid are also amusing heca11se he is the dumbest character in the movie. Cleese, too, is excellent as the nice guy who is harassed by a domineeriltg and bored ~ife, and who is frustrated and~d.isenchanted with his job. Altlwugh he plays the straight m;m throughout most ·Of the film, his scenes are generally dry and entertaining. Mich:ael Palin, however, is responsib;le for .much of the comedy; . his stuttering slowness and innocence, and his love for animals,. combined with his willingness to steal and kill for his boss, provides for a number of funny scenes .. For instance, he is told by his boss (Oeese~s client) to kill an old woman who will be an unhelpful witness. Killing the o14 woman is no problem for Palin, the problem is that she WHY NOTT? Show us what yeu'Ye got ••• 2nd Annual Campus Wide l:ALEN\I SHOW prizes! celebrity iudge~! Lip sync! Dance! Drama!Muslc! Comedy! Anything yav do thafs amusing/ Pick up rules and additional entry forms at information booth in the College Center and rettJm to box 1652. Sponsored by the Mountebanks. Show Date: Wed., Oct. :19th. Entry De11cline: Sat., Oct. 15 $100 FIRST PRIZEII a---~-------~-~~-~---·-----~------• NAME PHONE: ENTRY FORM-ItETURN IO BOX 1652 NAME OF ACT: BOX#: ----------------------------~-- BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF ACT: llas four dogs which he can't seem to avoid hurting. Curtis is a little flat as the conniving ~irlfriends, but on the whole, she's adequate, and the men easily make up for any <leficiency. The plot, is a stai1dard comedic variation of the group cf thieves who frantically try to backstab and outrace each other to the booty. The script by Cleese and the idiosyncracies of the characters, however, easily keep the plot ·afloat. Also, some unexpected twists, particularly at the end, keep the film lively and unpredictable. All things considered, · \A Fish Called Wanda'' is a brisk, hil.arious, and clever film. It may not suit · everyone's taste, but if you're a • fan of Cleese and Palin, and you don't mind comedy occasionatly slipping into slap.stick, \A Fish Called Wanda;' is definitely worth seeing. A/A-. : .· I do{ Meeting tioniglit 9:30 ~. 5-{umanities Horoscopes 13y \A \ LIBRA -- A romantic scene may offer intrigue and excitement this week. Be prepared to have your hands full this coming weekend. Sagittarius and Cancer may play key roles. SCORPIO -- Self-restraint may not be particularly beneficial for you this week. Follow your intuition about both projects you have .planned and people in your life. SAGITTARIUS --.You may have found that the last few weeks your libido has been your driving force. Put it to rest! Make up for neglected responsibiliHes \ concentrate on social and academic matters. CAPRICORN -- Someone you may have been admiring from afar, may be admiring you. If at a social gathering this weekend, make the initiative- it'll be worth the risk. AQUaRIUS - Last week's considerable losses may lead ·to substantial gains in the near future. This may be a difficult week for one reason or another-- do not be afraid to turn. to someone special for comfort PISCES - Confidence and self-reliance are essential this week. You may meet a powerful partner of passion- just be carefulof unrealistic expectations. ARIES -- If intoxicants play a large role in your social activities watch your step this week. Do not allow yourself to get out of control-- you may find yourself regretting your actions. TAURUS --Disenchantment with present circumstances may lead to .exploration this weelc, Examine all options. One you previously considered an inferior may became a teacher or mentor. GEMINI -- A romance from. the past may be rekindled or a passionate affair may be explored, as someone reenters your life for a brief but memorable weekend. CANCER -- Tho.ugh you. crave affirmation this week, do not go too far out on a limb in your search for it. Do not shy away from new people and experiences. · LEO - Self-control is essential this week as you may be entering a somewhat unstable phase. Believe in yourself and get involved with challenging projects and the week could be very rewarding. VIRGO-- Avoid making too many promises this week, or you will inevitably disappoint many people. Confront suppressed emotions --do not fear vulnerability- romance may be in your near future. ~············································ .. • • Top 8.97 i The WRUC The only station whose programming manager could have been I cast as an \Umpalloo\ in \Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.\ ~ Not Really I ! No. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. B. 8.97 Artist Album Lovely Primitives Lloyd Cole and the Commotions Mainstreams Psychedelic Furs All that Money · Wants Sugar Cubes Lifes Too Good Wet Wet Wet Wishing I Was ·Billy Bragg Camouflage U2 Souxie and the Banshees Lucky Workers Playtime Voices and Images Desire (Single} Pepshori. Label RCA Capital Columbia Elektra UNI Elektra Atlantic Island Geffen THEATER FES·T 198818 COMING SO LOOK FORTHE COURT GESTURES AT THE ATRIUM ON TUESDAY 18TH, WEST DINING HALL ON WEDNESDAY 19TH AND . . \ CABARET ON THURSDAY 20TH Moonstruck Friday, Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11 CC Auditorium + + i i + : + + + • i l • t \ .•

CONCORDIENSJS October 13, 1988 Page lS ___________ A_R __ TS __ &_ll_E_N_T_E_R_TA_I_N_M_E_N_T ______ ~-- Fish Tales: A Review of '~Fish Called Wanda\ By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor \A Fish Ca1led Wanda\ is a wonderfully entertaining film starring John Cleese, Michael Palin, Kevin Kline and Jamie Lee Curtis. Cleese stars as a mild-mannered English lawyer who becomes involved with a ring of thieves while defending the head of the gang. Curtis plays the gang ~eader's girlfriend who seduces Cleese in order to get information, a:nd Kline is a cruel, but hilarious saclist, who masquerades as her brother. Pali:n, lastly, is the loyal, stuttering animal lover and hitman. On the whole, the combination of a great script by Cleese and good acting by the characters renders tile movie extremely entertaining and enjoyable. The characters in \A Fish Called Wanda\ are th.e film's greatest asset; Kline, in particular, is wonderfu,l as the NITEAT THE RACES Saratoga 2-Day 10-13-88 with hyperactive psychotic. His imitations of the stuttering Palin are hysterical, and his constant warnings to others not to call him stupid are also amusing because he is the dumbest character in the movie. Cleese, too, is excellent as the nke guy who is harassed by a domineering and bored wife, and who is frustrated and disenchanted with his job. Although he plays the straight man throughout most of the film, his scenes are generally dry and entertaining. Michael Palin, however, is responsible for much of the comedy; his stuttering slowness and innocence, and his love for animals, combined with his willingness to steal and kill for his boss, provides for a number of funny scenes. For instance, he is told by his boss (Cleese's client) to kill an old woman who will be an unhelpful witness. Killing the old woman is no problem for Palin, the problem is that she has four dogs which he can't seem to avoid hurting. Curtis is a little flat as the conniving girlfriends, but on the whole, she's adequate, and the men easily make up for any deficiency. The plot is a standard comedic variation of the group of thieves who frantically try to backstab and outrace each other to the booty. The script by Cleese and the idiosyncracies of me characters, however, easily keep the plot afloat. Also, some unexpected twists, particularly at the end, keep the film lively and unpredktable. All things considered, \A Fish Called Wanda\ is a brisk, hilarious, and clever film. It may not suit everyone's taste, but if you're a fan of Cleese and Palin, and you don't mind comedy occasionally slipping into slapstick, \A Fish Called Wanda\ is definitely worth seeing. AlA-. Ubrary.....,Al6~v. 44:9 .. saeo, Phi Gamma Delta '2:00: &!SO. HHelio~ Film Festival: 'North Orf:f.tw.est\ f'r$$ AomissJ,Qn, · · · . . --~.- ,; . Union College. Arts Building. Homsco . ·· · .. · . ,, ~ J~if~~l,tJ)i~!~ .~vq~ety of studen .and faculty artwork; Racept1on Y/llh meet at the house .. Aft feletJty,Sotur<:~cay f'J':JorrtimQ,. at 7:00 WHY NOll? Show us what you've got .... 2nd Annual Campus Wide IALENI SHOW prizes! celebrity iudges! Lip sync! Dance! Drama! Music! Comedy! Anything you do that's amusing! Pick up rules and additional entry forms at information booth in the College Center and return to box 1652. Sponsored by the Mountebanks. Show Date: Wecl., Oct. 19th. Entry Deacline: Sat., Oct. 15 $100 FIRST PRIZE!! ·---------~-----------------------· NAME PHONE: ENTRY FORM- RETURN TO BOX 1652 NAME OF ACT: BOX#:------------------------------- BRIEF DESCRIPIION OF ACT: ' I c£oC Meeting CJ'oniglit 9:30 ', !J{umanities ·-· ... !1-lor-oscopes :BfJ \A\ LIBRA -- A romantic scene may offer intrigue and excitemeat this week. Be prepared to have your hands full this coming weekend. Sagittarius and Cancer may play key roles. SCORPIO -- Self-restraint may not be particularly beneficia,! for you this week. Follow your intuition about bo~h projects you have planned and people in your life. SAGITTARIUS -- You may have found that the last few weeks your Libido has been your driving force. Put it to rest! Make up for neglected responsibilities - concentrate on social and academic matters. CAPRICORN -- Someone you may have been admiring from afar, may be admiring you. If at a social gathering this weekend, make the initiative- it'll be worth the risk. AQUARIUS -- Last week's considerable losses may lead to substantial gains in the near future. This may be a difficult week for one reason or another-- do not be afraid to tum to someone special for comfort. PISCES -- Confidence and self-reliance are essential this week. You may meet a powerful partner of passion-- just be careful of unrealistic expectations. ARIES -- If intoxicants play a large role in your social activities watch your step this week. Do not allow yourself to get out of control-- you may find yourself regretting your actions. TAURUS -- Disenchantment with present circumstances may lead to exploration this week. Examine all options. One you previously considered an inferior may became a teacher or mentor. GEMINI-- A roma11ce from the past may be rekindled or a passionate affair may be explored, as someone reenters your life for a brief but memorable weeken.d. CANCER --Though yoa crave affirmation this week, do not go too far out on a limb in your search for it. Do not shy away from new people and experiences. · LEO - Self-control is essential this week as you may be entering a somewhat unstable phase. Believe in yourself and get involved with challenging projects and the week could be very rewarding. VIRGO-- Avoid making too many promises this week, or you will inevitably disappoint many people. Confront suppressed emotions --do not fear vulnerability-- romance may be in your near future. ................ , .... , ...................... .... .. • The WRUC Top 8.97 j The olilly station whose programming manager could have been cast as an \Umpalloo\ in \Charlie and the Chocolate Factory.\ Not Really! No. 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8.97 Artist Primitives Lloyd Cole and Album Lovely the Commotions Mainstreams Psychedelic Furs Sugar Cubes Wet Wet Wet Billy Bragg Camouflage U2 Souxie and the Banshees All that Money Wants Liles Too Good Wishing I Was Lucky Workers Playtime Voices and Images Desire (Single) Pepshon. Label RCA Capital Columbia Elektra UNI Elektra Atlantic Island Geffen THEATER FEST 198818 COMING SO LOOK FOR THE COURT GESTURES AT THE ATRIUM ON TUESDAY 18TH, WEST DINING HALL ON WEDNESDAY 19TH AND \ CABARET ON THURSDAY 20TH Moonstruck Friday, Sat., Sun. 7' 9, 11 CC Auditorium .. • .. • • .. • • • • • • • + • • • + + + + • + • • • t -. ..

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS October 13, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS Life of th.e Party Store, State S.t., Schenectady needs clerk/cashier.. Mon. 9-4:30; Campus P:rotestant ministry\ Tues. 4:30-7:30; Wed .. 9-7:30; Activities · · h 3 9 p · 9 CLUB NEWS T urs. - ; n. 3.: ; Sat; 9-5. -Morning pray.er-, ·. Minimum wage -. Gontact weekdays, 8:15-8:35 AM in Cindy 346-1374. the 4tb floor loung~ of the CC. · -10/16 Sunday worship, lO AM, Memorial ChapeL Dr. William Gibson preaching. -10/16 Workshop on· solid w:aste, 12:30-2:00 PM in the assembly hall of the· First Reformed Church.. A group is leaving from the (Idol) side door of the CC at 12:10 PM. -Bible study, Thursday;. 11:30-12:45; CC 205. Lunch provided for those on the meal plan; others please bring your own. PLEASE NOTE The following Biology · Department & Biology Club Seminars have been changed from Bailey Hall 106 to Bailey Hall207. Oct. 12 Prof. Raymond Stross Oct. 19 De·an Margaret Schadler Oct. 26 Dr. V. R. Villanueva Thank you for your ~ cooperation. The Biology Department To all students: Aggressive college students to represent our marketing company on campus. Commission plus many benefits including free trips to the Bahamas and ski ·resorts. Call 1-518-235 .. 0725 for exciting details. PERSONALS Sigma Chi and Delta Chi- Thanks for rocking fraternity row! Sisters of Delta Gamma. Zitface, Room a little hot maybe? Wanna camp out near the bridge. tonight? Just you and meandafan? StevenG- Here is your personal! you'd better like it. Lori - 'Killer' and every other name I use in the personal column. Dan, Don't be mad- Dinner before the term's over?? Lina. Mrs. Stevens - Here's another damn personal. Wanna play cards? Adam, Or is it FAF? Sorry. Happy Birthday ., I bought you a pink · and yellow sweater. Una .. : Cling to the Roof - Wendy. Dammit Janet! I am not demanding, just cooperative. · Matthew, It's a wonder you db no work - your moves are t()O few and far in between. (just :kidding). Cab, They say a picture says a thousand words, right? So where is my novel? Love and Kisses., SMC. Butler, Why do you think of me when you drink a beer? Is that supposed to mean something? Schwachkopfin. GI Have fun this weekend - is it the blue triple or double?_ I don't think you'll be cold! Robbie, I can always 'lend' you my nanny?! I Pledgemaster - A time and a place. that's·alt I need. Superman's friend. Dweeb and Myron- So I'm having some fun this tum - what the F_. k! By the way, it's time for Ladies (. If you are interested in being up to date with advances in science and technology and wish to obtain important information regarding career opportunities in the fields \f science and engineeting, you may wish to consider becoming a student affiliate <Jf the American Chemical Society. BLOOM COUNTY Not just for chemists. th:is educational and scientific society provides a number of benefits for its members. includins a subscription to Chern & Engineering News. For more information and an application form. please see Marie at the Chern Department Office. CLASSIFIEDS (2) Door Security people - Monitor customers . corning into store to enforce backpacks and other personal belongings be left outside. Bring change to cashiers as needed. Assists in clerical duties as needed. Contact Tim Porter - College Bookstore. 12 hrs. pr. wk. Sales Clerk - Assist buyer in computer and stationery departments with computer sales, pricing and stocking of merchandise and handle clerical duties as needed. Contact Tim Porter - Bookstore. 20 hours pr. wk. STUDENT OFF-CAMPUS JOBS P/T Customer Service Rep. 28 hours pr. wk. rotating shift eve. & weekends. location 1200 Rt. 7 Troy-Schenectady Rd. Please contact Judy @ 783-1161 Ext. 301. Need good phone & communication skills. Must be able to work independently. Student with math background to work f()r Campbell Plastics, 2900 Campbell Ave. 20 llrs. pr. wk. $5.56/hr. Contact John at 393- 2167. YO(J f/Ke 5/HUfJbt.flf&, OUVtr? / HIIV&' I ,----.. /Wt£P 1lJ N5ntt IN YOtJIINY R'f'DPfCT ror<. 7H& ti/W '! /rflt.O :JAf!l \/2. 5/r'II/L/ON fN II WeeK/ MJT 13f1P RJR' II !3fJNCH ~ 6Rif£1V ofitfk&!B{~/,.. \ welt./ 1166 11/i\£. / CIIN'T Wll/1 7lJ 51li«T 5ti1Ck/NG / 1Al50 8()(!&HT }r)ll II 250 fl.f. r&'Rr<IIRt 7ti5f!IK055A . {{'$ f'/1/(J(ff/? (}(Jf rr<ONT. Night! !l ~U~e can .stay awake.) . To the Women's Tennis Nerd. Good luck w/the rest of the -~-~-~--- : ·season,. ftniss you g'Qys - , Lynette - · HAPPY BIRTHDAY- Love, Stacey. Sue. ' KAZ- Delta Gamma - Getpsyclied for an awesome weekend! Things are getting aggrevating! Thanks for the • slumber parties .. CHUG!., Love~Face. Buttface: To SU11E 115: · Trust llie; .today all social Why am I the only one who · levels aroe <ioing it, and loving . wasn't psyched for a single? it. ·. ' Maybe when my halo breaks! Love; th(:)se ()f us who know Love S. WilY NOTT? Show us what you've got ... 2nd Annual Campus Wide i·FlLENI SHOW prizes! celebrity iudges! Lip sync!. Dance! Drama! Music! Comedyl Anything you do that's amus:ing! Pick up rules and additional entry forms ,qt iJJformation booth in the College Center and' return to box 1652. Sponsored by the Mountebanks. Show Da-te: Wed., Oct. 19th. Entry Deadline: Sat., Oct. 15 ENTRY FORM--- RETURN TO ltOX 1652 NAME ~· ------~--~----~----~-----------­ PHO~E:~·--~--------------------~~- NAMEOF ACT: -------------------- BOK.ft:--· .---.....---- ................. ---------~---- BRIEF'DESCRIPTION OF ACT: ______ .....__ . Wf/0'5 Nexr Wv65(/5 Clftri.JTIN 'ttJ(Jf< /J«JK, flfll? _:? Berke Breathed· \ • . •

CONCOBDlENSIS Octobtr 13, 1988 Page 17 ··· ·.· ··· •···.·· ··· · r\A.•·a·· PERSON:tun=~ To.theNanc- You've made ''a marvelous qircular jotuney\ back .to Schen. where I nulke my own Art Brut. Bob? Dcug1 Malapropes? Welcome back, Mar. . Katb: \Be was reared togi:ve respect, hut some:wbere down the line he chose t() Whistle as the wind blows.\ Ne:xt time, have a Piels. Love, Mar-. ' Tina Bo Beaner: ''Tilose Who owll tile papers also ()WU this J.an<J,\ l'ln. \looldng like a born-again anQ.· living like a heretic.•• .grow, grow, grow. Priving, not wearing, Beaiter. ' Love,~margaret. '· . . .. Brooke & C<>rey • Rumor has·it - :rewiild- Brooke don't get tense •. Stop Now! ltewim[ Try ~gain. Corey leave tbe roo1n - rumor has it ~ :posesseddbg. Courtney- ! lcve you! Yourrecmmate. Steph. Cournt Amy - th3llk you f()r madng this the best birthday; Co~o·s~ sieph's. singing .. parents late, all tamed out great! Thanks .,. Me. Betsy(TIS) Call me! l miss y()u! I don't want to lose touc.:hf This semester isn't the same with Art (<>r Prof R)_ Love, Me. Doug, I bonght sdme new underwear andlwant}'OU to see it! l! G.L.- Someone is w!ltching you ... Bets· Is exempt froii:\.al,l clean up luties due to worldly travels! Jive him the batlrrooms. Lida- ' The list comes out soon - watehout! KRATS: QUICK! GET THE MAID .. THERE IS A MESS'! . . & s ??? LUV, K, J. · .... Eric: \THAT's RUCKJNG ROO\ Love K& S. Bodacious Stripper in 213 North: - We've been waiting patiently for. the second showmg. Keep ; the curtain open. LUV, The Guys on 3rd Floor South. K.C.- The reat \shocker'' was that . you remembered to tum the • ·water off. Luv, Kaz. Eileen & Keith - Thanks for all your help ·and patience .. You guys are great! Kathy. P.S. Keith -It really is good to have you back here. Ing- Thanks for everything! Kathy. P.S. Beware of strange magazines in car Windows on the highway! FERS: Reason - Why you were home alone.at 4:30? Reason - Why the sweater was missing? FLASH. Lu~. KA.R./ Wanted: Anyone interested in writing a comic stt:i,p for Concordy. ·Please submit comics to Concordy office, 3td floor College Center. The Oniy \L \ It's not ~r boy and it's not a girl. Thanks for everything. CAMPUS NEWS . We should walk the track more often. I .guess Homecoming, comes after Babbling. Robbie D. Toby- With no visitors coming this weekend, I guess we'll have to entertain ourselves .. · I'm looking forward to it! · Lo:v:e, Gunby. Gamma Phi Beta Get psyched for rush and keep up the good work. 'it will all pay off. Delta Delta Delta, Sigma Delta Tau and Delta Gamma: Good Luck in rush. Love the Sisters ofG-Phi-B Ex-fmp- You'reonly 19 foroae more Camp- December 7th is the 34211d day- it's also \D~Day\- I hOtpe . you live!- Sheila~ Kath, Hope your date with Geo~ge Raymond Edwards pays off., NORTH/OAO Co-Ree Soccer Team, Congratulations on your 21ld Shut out Victory. Let~s go for win #3 next Monday. The Wounded Teall. Member. Good Luck on GMATs. Love, Blue Chicly. week, live it up~ But you still ·· NOTICE- have another year until you're . The SDT Alumnae Hotelhts legal.. hereby been officially movetl to Love- Ex Frap. the downstairs triple. Pledges P.S. Wonder Twins'? be out by sundown on Frida:y~ Ly.nette- Happy Birthday, Sophmore!! From your shorter, older and wiser friend. -SS. Heyed~ Rue #1, ''clean up yow room.\ Rule #2, if not, you'll be fme$50. From you know who, . Robbie D, Good luck on the GMA Ts. Just relax and you'll do fine. ABS- xoxoxo:xo TUCK . , Love, L. Now who owes who one?! A.K. Sheri, Good luck on the GMA Ts. . ·Just two more days and then we can party. Get psyched! Love Risa. Ruggers: Do some DAMAGE to RPI!! Good Luck on Saturday! SIDTVACK- . The same goes for you and 1 .· Fiji! And there's no need to kid · there! Dougie, 1 My topic for the Heb 10 1 paper is: 'The 1001 Uses of i Yamacha'. Lina. Lynette· How was that again'? 'Facit' is the Latin word for 'To gi.ve'? DJC.;L. I J. Friedman - Jen- Do you still like .sex in the bathroom? Pathwalk:ers. ·• ~ Come watch the Sisters of SDT stufftheir faces with M&M's on Friday, the 16th of October in front of Carnegie. 12:45 p.m.! ~ SDT Alums are on their way! :Por1~t Walk ... R:UN! 'Shortcake' - Just in case rm not speaking · • to you anymore, I just wanted you to know that 'til now. you've been a great friend! With Conditional Love. . .. . 'Do-It-Up'. Hey Anh, Stop polluting Union's atmosphere! Concern fresh.IU\ society, LIC.D. Steve and Jon, Slowly moving up the phone list. .. Thanks for dinner. LoveLi!Ul. Spike Nyhus- Rosh anyone? I bear the 3Id time's a chann .. besides there are great senior benefits!! Cail't wait to see. you- meet me at your honorary house ... you know. the one with the cow! Fart- · Nothing- I just wanted to make sure you remember yollf name. ' Since I probably won't make , it to chiPsi, I was wondering if you might come out for a few minutes just to say Hi! BMS- Thanx for dinner and ESpecially dessert ... Jello; whipped cream and a ~ . I cherry ... mmm ... my ,avonte. Forever in Lust! UL. Cath, Nothing makes me feel better than a free (key word) . lunch and/or dinner. Thanks. SOT- The Alumnae are coming. The Alumnae are coming. You 21 or Older? Come and participate in. the · · • Budweiser Beer vs. ~\~5~effa~ Meghan.,. . Long time no see strange.:! I think it's time for another 'S9«3 bill at Manhattan. Miss y()u, Ama:nda. , can run, but you can't hide - from the Alumnae. Looking forward to a great social weekend. Oh, by the way, we're already PARCHED! ... Big Dave, I actually· p~ssed t:p a free dinner? Non-alcholic Beer servitei . WHE'RE: The Rathskellar . WHO: Anyone-- faculty,· stafi and ·students over 21 . years o:ld. ·.WHEN: Friday, October 21, 2 .. 4 pm WHAT: 2 proofs ·of age required. Come 111111 See for Yowsell If Tliete Is lltHtJIIy • Dill.,..,t:e Br.ing A Friend! G~ MARK MY WORDS: Triste (adj) bold~ brazen, shameless ... Look it 111>! Little Jill, Nice Intellectual Conversation - dog doodie smeared all over and in a: question that SENIOR GREEKS - Let's get going on Drunk::. . I Clu.b! We only have one se:nior year, and it's going down th~ tubes! Rap Master Becky .. You are one funky woman! .. goin' back to Cali?! -Jane and Arnallda. Maybe I'm coming down with something .. raincheck? Lindsay- Look good in the catalog? Bad on? Pajamas? Send them back! PRONTO! Love, All of Second Floor Potter! BMS- I'm glad you're fmally free ... now I'll show you. what a REAL woman can do. UL. Rachel, 1f you .need someone to talk to, I will listen! Love Lisa. ...

.: r., . Page IS The Department of Sociology and Anthropology Announces its Third Annual Lewis Henry Morgan Colloquia The Fall term speaker's are: OCTOBER 19 Dr. Donileen Loseke visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology \Translating Theory into Practice: The Battered • Woman's Social Movement and Services for Battered. Women:\ . NOVEMBER 10 Dr. Stephen. Zehr .. Visiting ~ssistant. P!'?fessor of Sociology Interpretative Flexibility and the Professional Interests of Scientists in the Acid Rain Controversy\ 3:30-· 'ffiACY ROOM CSS 213) Please contact _Martha Huggins, chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology (X6292) CONCORDIENSIS Octolnr 13, 1988 CALL FOR SCIENTIFIC PAPE.RS FOR INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE O'N MACHINERY MONITOR.ING AND DIAGNOSIS Union College will spor~sor the tst International Machinery Monitoring and Diagnostic Conference, to' .. take place September ft-14, 1989 in Las Vegas, . Nevada. The Conference resp~:>nds to the need for an international forum for the e.xqhange of knowledge in .. · monitoring rmrchinery, structures, processes and . · systems in order to predict and diagnose their life cycles in service. Papers are sought on a variety of.topics, including but not limited to: pattern recognition, artificial intelligence, analytical methods, smart transducers, acoustic emission, ultrasonic techniques, ar:~d maintenance management. Please submit a short abstract of the paper {not more than 200 words) by Decembe-r 15, 1988 to: Dominick DeMichele, Of-fice of Grad11ate and Continuing Studies, Wells House, Union College, Sche11ectady, NY 12308· 2363. ·Prospective exhibitors are also invited to inquire about further information by respl) nding 19 tAe address above, or by calling D .. DeMichele, director, at (51'8) 370•6673. OVER-NIGHT ·R·ETREAT TIME: ? p.m. Friday, October 21st to 5 p.m. Saturday, October 22nd PLACE: 1630 Nott Street ' COST: $5 when.yqu register with Sr. Joan THEME: The Marty Paths to Prayer · • To explore ideas about prayer * To praotice listening and t;leing presanuo God . * To help us realize that our concept of God determines the-way we speak to God. . VISIT A CATHOUC WORKER HOUSE A houseof . Hospitality for the Poor . · · · . Sunday, October 23rd TranspOrtation provided · Contact Sr. Joan 370.0087 if interested D.RYRUSH EVENT '''Why Shou'ld Christians Be Concerned · About Solid Waste?\ ······.~· ~r N-vMNAr: · COME ONE, COME ALL Wednesday, Oct. 19 g:OO \The Dating Game\ ZBT The Biology Department And Biology Club Present: DEAN MARGARET SCHADLER UNION COLLEGE ' CHINA: POPULATION- PEASANTS-PRODUCE WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 19,1988 4:40 PM BAILEY HALL ROOM 106 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 AWARE meetings Mondays at 7:00 pm 409 College Center DON'T MISS THE 2ND ANNUAL MOUNTEBANKS CAMPUS WIDE TALENT SHOW CELEBRITY JUDGES, CASH PRIZES OCTOBER 19TH 8:00PM MEMORIAl CHAPEL. DG SPLASH WINNERS!! CECELIA ELOY and SEAN KELLY The winning number was 741! CONGRATULATIONS! ::. . . Juhren\s Seafood Restaurant 1 o State Street Schenectady Call for reservations 382-585i STOCKADE'S BEST KEPT SECRET! .. ,• :•, ::. : •'• 12:30 · 2 PM, Sun. 10116 lh the Assembly Hall of the First Reformed Church on Church St. A workshop led by Dr. William Gibson, a social ethicist with the Center for Religion, .Ethics and Social Policy at Cornell University. Anyone interested in going with a group should meet at the ('Idol) • side door of the College Center at t2:10.PM. For more information., Call x6618. The Sisters of Epsilon Alpha Cordially invite.you to join us for BRUN:CH, SUNDAY., OCT. 16 11 am at ~he Delta Gamma ChapterHouse---1461 Lenox Rd. R.S.V.P. by Sat. 382·9735 If you can't make it to brunch, please·stop by to say hello! Welcome .Back! I ''I dotit want a lot of hype. I just want something I can count on.'' Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a eost that's a lot less than you think. You can expect low long distance rates, 24·hour operator assistflnce, cl~ connections and immediate credit for wrong nuinbers. · And the assurance that virtually all of your calls wiU go through the first time. That's the genius of the · AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. When ies time to . choose, forget-the gitnmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT&T. · , If youti like to know more apout our products or · services, like International eafling and the AT&T Gird, call us at 1 800 222-0300. .. ATaT The rig.ht choice.

CONCORDIENSIS . Oc.tob~rr. 13, 1988 Page 19 M·en's X-C Finish.es Stro\gly · By THE GARNET ~XP'RES:S Nakedness and satisfaction were the two words wltich summed: up the men's cross country team's outing last Friday aftemoon. As the team got. off the bus there was .an obvjou~. feeli~g of nakedness,. as they re@.zed that they ~ere 2oing to run witltopt a pre .. 1ace talk by. team philosopher Edmund \Rhino\ Rothenberg. Would the. team resemble bve swift Spartan atbletes or wou.Id they_ freeze of!!·· bare ps~che? The res111ts spoke for themselves. Numerous . Dutchmen set .personal records., .and the teaJ!). finiShed a close third in a strong field .of six schools. ~ading the way for this week's team of · six sophomores and one freshman was '' GeQrge ir · Michael Martinez, ~leventh overall, with a time of 28:tO.S8. Closely following with · additional s11pport were Doug \:tfuve Machine\ Martocci ' - - - - - ·. . ~ twentieth, in 28:46.45; Dave ''Spleen'' Steen, twenty·eighth, . in 29:23.81; Edmund \Rhino\ Rothenberg~ twentv-ninth. in ~ - 29:55.69; and B.ob '\..Amold\ Lindyberg, thirty-th.ird., in · 30::26.85. · Other ,s.tr:ong performances were als(): turned in by rookies Rich Zelil,beck and Hans Schwarz. Siltisfaction was in ()rder as the team had begu-n its itumabout from the D~prressed . Dutchmen of a week ago to this week's Garnet E~J)'less it . knew existed ... The revitalized · team will receive its .fir:st test • ; tomorrow ~gainst RPI, with '· the continued strong slt\lwing of school support at tllis bome contest, 4:00 tomorrow at · Saratoga Park (next to .SPAC). Sportsweek· IhursdsY 1 0/.13 .FIELD HOCKEY VS Williams 4:00 JV FIELDHOCKEY VS . Williams 5:30 WOMENS TENNIS \IS Williams 4:00 Frida}! 1 0/14 Monday .1 on 7 JV FOOtBALL at API 3:30 WOMENS SOCCER at Plattsburg 3:30 Tuesday 10118 WOMEN$ X-C at Cap~al District Meet 3:30 JV SOCCER at Williams 4:00 MENS X-C VS API at Saratoga Park 4:30 VOLLEYBALL at Hamilton w/ Middleblfry 6:00 . Saturday .lQ/15 (HOMECOMING) FOOTBALL VS API, 1:30 JV MENS SOCCER VS API 3:30 MENS SOCCER VS Rfll 12:30 WOMENS SOCCER VS flPI 10:00 . WOMENS TENNIS VS RPI 11:00 FIELIJHOCKEY _ ~~ ~idtllebury 11:00 JV FIELD HOCKEY at Middlebury . 12:30 VOLLEYBALL at Vassar Tourney MENS RUGBY VS RPI 2:00 Wednesday 1 0119 MENS'SOCCER VS WOMENS SOCCER at FIELDHOCKEY VS U of Rochester Albany Manhattenville :3:30 :3:30 7:00 SCOREBOARD Mens Soccer . Volleyball Union 0 Plattsburg o Unioi11 Amherst 15 Union 5 Amherst 15 Womens Soccer Union 15 Siena 13 Union 15 Siena 6 -sPORTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ. By GREG GOETZ I hope that no one paid attention to either of the picks I made last week. At least l didn't bet any money; I would not be able to eat for the rest of the month, except for the humble pie I've been forced to Tyson's money as possible. eat. So I went with sentimental All she should be entitled to picks, hoping for a rematch of receive is her share of the the '86 World Series, this time endorsements she did with the expecting a better outcome. cllamp. The only reason she Yes, I'm g11ilty of being a Red married him was for what Sox fan, fQrever hopeful that \Iyson could provide for her. they will -()ne -day wear the not the person he is. She crown and 11 ndeniably be the should consider herself lucky best team in baseball, But for not to have been abused more now, once again, I'll be than she bas for tbe statements waiting fot nex.t year with the she made during .the coople's rest of the Fenway Faithful. recent interview with Barb8JI.'a With the World Series on the Walters. horizon, I might as well make It's Homecoming )Veek, an(~ another fearless prediction. The our sports teams deserve all the Oakland A's llandled the Bosol'. support that they can get. If with ease, and should be able someone had asked me which to do the. same to whomever fall sports team would have the they face from the National best record, women's field League. They will have time to hockey would not have been test their pitchmg staff, though my first guess. But they they did not look like they deserve a round of applause for were put to the test by Boston. tlle excellent season that they But this w.eek, I'd like to warn have had so far . my readers: don't bet your beer After beating up on the money on it. geeks over at RPI for the last Now that Mike Tyson and few years, they got revenge at Robin Givens are splitting up. their Homecoming last year by the champ will be able to beating our football team and concentrate Oll training to fight taking the ugly Dutchmen's the ranks of nobodies who will Shoes Trophy .. They Jeft their look to Tyson for a big scoreboard on for a week after payday. The greedy Ms. Givens the game, and. its. about time will look. to get as much of they learned a little respect. Welcome Back Union Alumni Union 7 Colgate 6 Union 12 Colgate 1 5 Womens. Tennis ··Athletes Union 4 Wetls 1 Field. Hockey ~ Union 1 . Siena 0 Union 1 Siena 8 r------------~--------~---------··-··-~-------------------· I DUTCH HOLLOW DOLLAR DELIVERY SPECIAL I i · ~~~--_, ______ \ ____ ltOCii&RolrPiZZiiPUii __________ , _______ ~ 1 I : 1ST ORDER. 2ND ORDER : I I ~ . 50 ¢ . 50 ¢ 1 I I L --. -\-. ----- \' .. §..~~'! T~r~~9~ £~L r~!f!l.! ~~~ ........ \\. _. _ •. J I I I I Order one' of our delicious pizzas ar~d take 50¢ off the low :price. I I I I OCTOBIIl SPECIAL: 8 CUT $6.51J 1ST TOPPING $.75 I 1 Or stop by aild enjoy a pizza at the Dutch Hollow- we11 ta~e the I whole dollar off ~at oncel 1 ··---J·-------·-·· ~~-···········~----··---·--------·---------~-------..! ·-JI· ...... -

,Y<--- The men's soccer team returned to the win column this past weekend. F.ie,ld hockey continued their winning ways, remalning undefeated. _ Men's Soccer Marches Back With a Victory· By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Tile men's soccer team returned to win column this past week in striking style. The Dutchmen defeated Vassar last week on a chilly Garis field by a convincing 4-0 score, and followed it up with an away tie at Plattsburgh State, 0-0. - Strange and different things were blowing in the early October wind when the Dutchmen took on the \much improved\ Vassar Vixens soccer team. Last year, the Dutchmen beat them 12-0, but fear was in the heart of many a footballer as rumors of menacing new players loomed around the Dutchmen practices. The Dutchmen rallied to beat Vassar with a great deal of the play which was reminiscent of the beginning of the season. The four goals produced broke a four-game scoring drought for the team, and is the best single game goal total so far this year. After an own goal, Union goals carne from Mike \Droopy\ Kijak, Jem Sollinger, and Chris \Rusty\ (no pun intended) Avery. Avery's second-half tally gave him a team leading foQ.r for the year. On defense, the Vassar game marked the beginning of goalie Adam Paget's varsity career. Starting for the injured McTaigue (concussion), Paget in a pre-game interview challenged Vassar to \Shoot the Rock,\ and proceeded to successfully defend the Union goal, earning the shutout in the process. The winds of Schenectady soon took the Dutchmen to Plattsburgh, and in the wake of their previous win, they entered the game with renewed · confidence.lfhe 0-0. tie was a bit of a let-down, as the stall offense was again implemented. \It gets . frustrating ... \ commented one distraught playerin reference to the production. The game was · played to a great extent in the Dutchmen end, and, led by the revivedMcTaigue (4 shutouts), the defense was flawless. Thus the Dutchmen tied. The soccer team, 3.-2-3 · entering Wednesday's Siena match, is hopefully on the way back. The key to ·the second half will be offense, as the · defense rivals any in the East. · The last six matches of the se-ason wil be away, and the · Dutchmen must pick up away wins to even think about the playoffs. A little more offense could do it, but for now, let's take them one at a time. • Women Ruggers Lose Opener By WOMEN'S RUGBY TEAM It all started on a drizzly Saturday morning. We entered the field with nervous anticipation, against a team who in the past has been described as \scary.\ Union had the kickoff and quickly pushed their way to the Colgate tri- zone due to the efforts of the lady scrummers. At this point in the game the fear of anniliati.on subsided and Union showed their true aggression. For the entire :first half; Union pressured Colgate close to their tfi .... zone, yet could not manage a score despite some valiant endeavors. Among the truly heroic (risking life and limb literally) were Lisa \Nails\ Nicosia and Becky . \Chief' Troutman. Tbe score remained o .. o into the second half. Union was determined and angered by several questionable calls by the referee. Yet, the ruggers continued on in a serum- dominated game and; played defensively for most of the second half. Ten minutes into the half, Colgate was able to score from a line .. out which would determine the outcome of the game. After the game, the teams exchanged some drink and song. All in all, ~e women's team should· be · commended for playing one of its best .games since the team's · start. Good job everyone!!! RECREATION ROOM- COLLEGE CENTER 301 Building Hours: Recreation Room: Football equipment available: 7:00am-1:00am 10:00 am-1 :OO,,am 8:30 am-12:30 am 12:30 pm-12:30 a~ Mon.-Fri. Sat. -Sun. Mon.-Fri. Sat.-Sun. 12:00 pm-12:00 am Mon ... Sun. Women's X -Country llosts Saratoga Invy. . \ By TH~ x .. c TEAM Once· again, the women's cross country team braved the cold weather last weekend as they hosted the Union Cross Country Invitational at Saratoga. Although it was impossible to get a \live\ report similar to last weekend's, we do have a member of the cross country cheering team. (Do-it-up Anderson) here to give us the results... · \How are you doing, Do-it- u.p?\ .. \Fip.e Shortcake, I'm very glad to _share my vast knowledge of X-Country cheering with everyone.\ \So how dia the race go? 1 ' \Well I didn't wait for the gun to go off for the :fust race before running to my first cheering spot. It's very impartant in X-C cheering to be there on time. Then, as the race passed, I waved my flags and said my favorite cheer which is .. ;\ ''Hold on, Do-it-up! We're here to see bow the race went, not the art of cheering!\ hSorry, Shortcake, I get carried away sometimes! the . top Union finisher who crossed the line fourth overall with an ' .impr~?ssive time of 19:29 was the fres.hman, Sandy Anselment.\ . \Wow Do-it-up~ she looks • just like you!\ 11 Yes~ it's great. isn't it?\ \Anyways our next three finishers, Kara Merrill, Sherri Cargile andJen Regan came in a group within \10 s~concls of each other.- These three plus Sandy received awards for coming· in the top 10.\ \That's. very impressive, Do- it-up!\ \It. only gets better, Shortcake. Meg Parsons, our 400m convert, racing her second X-coantry race ever, improved her time by over one minute from last week and finished off Union's top five. Denise McMillian, another 400m convert, crushed , her personal record by over two minutes over a 5K course by crossing the line with a time of 22:07: Lynette Nielson and Tracy Reynolds, both recovering from disheartening injuries, ran vety strong !aces. Lynette knocked a minute off of her tinie from the week before, and Tracy, after taking a week off from racing,. held her own on the tough, hilly course.\ . \Sounds like the women have a very strong team this year.\ \They do, Shortcake. We were very iJnpressive, _especially the X-C cheerers like myself and Sue Lyon.\ \S o· · ure, sure, · o-tt-up. Anything you say. Thank you for joining us today.\ \No pr~blem, Shortc*e· I'd also like to extend an invitation to the whole campus to join me and become X-C cheerers this Friday, again at Saratoga.\ \Thanks. This . is Shortcake... signing off until next week} · SUPPORT UNION SPORTS \

', .. ~· Vol. CXVUI, No. 5 ~ - Scbenec:tady, New York October 20, 1988 ~ ._- - ~- : . . - . April 88 . Bush - Dukakis Don1Know Intended 33% 62% 5% Vote ,october 88 Bush Dukakis Don't Know 40% 41% 19% When . asked: \Do you approve or disap.prova of the way Ronald Reaga.n · Is handling his Job as President?\. i April 88 1 October 88 Approve 45%. Approve Disapprove 55% Disapprove 57% 43% Effect of Bush Dukakis President on Approve of Reagan 75% 25% Vote Intention Disapp·rove of Reagan 1SO/o 84% Do- you think the national ;presidential race will be close? Yes 79%, No 21o/o · Who do you think will be elected President? ' Bush 68% Dukakis 32% How much do you care who wins the Presidential election:? Care a great deal Care somewhat Don't care very much 63o/o 30% 7% THE RESULTS· ARE IN A Survey of Capital District Voters by PSC .. 68 Suggests Presidential-Race is Not as close as You Might Have Heard · would have contacted s:ome By KlUS BURNHAM l The results ·of a new General :election Survey of Capital District voters, conducted last week by Union students, look very poSitive for Vice President Bush. The telephone survey which was conducted as part of course work for ''Electoral Politics,\ (PSC-68) ·had over 500 respondents. choose Bush, the remaining Holbrook-Provow goes on to has led to a generally good persons three times and woulq 5% stated that they did not describe how this explanation feeling toward the current be able to track their attitudes.~ know whom they would vote makes sense. He points out, administration.\ The actual When asked what the spring for. In last week's survey, thatofthose surveyed, and that rating has increased, since survey would focus on, Dukakis' lead had shrunk to , approve of the job that Reagan April, from 45% to 57%. Holbrook-Provow replied, \I 41% in comparison to George is doing, 75% claim that they In general, the results of the would like to explore the Bush's 40%. However, the one · will vote for Bush. survey seem to paint a picture approval ratings of Governor point margin is completely Conversely, of those who of a close election, however Cuomo and possibly focus on negated by the 5 point margin · disapprove of the job that one which most feel will be the first 100 days of the B11sh of error. Thus, both candidates. Reagan is doing, 84% say that won by the Vice President. Of administration, and you can appear, for the most part, even they will vote for Duk:akis.. respondents, 79% feel that the quote me on that.\ in number of expected votes. Thus, as Reagan's approval national presidential race will Professor Holbrook-Pro vow \Two things stand out as rating increases, so does be close, and 63% say that t:I:tey cites many people who made being important results in this support for Bush. \care a great deal\ about who this survey possible, inclucling: survey,\ said Holbrook- Holbrook-Provow sees a wins the election. Finally, the Telecommunications Office Provow. \The first is the variety of factors that have when asked whom they and the Development Office as obvious shift in support since silrfaced since April as being thought would be elected well as the 35 students enf()lled April from Dukakis to Bush. • important in the rise of· President, 68% thought that it in PSC-68. The survey was The survey; designed by Visiting Assistant Professor of Political Science, Thomas Holbroo~·Provow, is a follow- up of a survey he conducted last spring. Both last spring's survey and the one conducted last week were required aspects of political science courses. The second is the increased · Reagan's approval rating. He would be the Vice President. conducted over two nights, , approval rating for President · contends that the generally Holbrook-Provow would like consisting of 70 individual Reagan.\ Holbrook-Provow good economic news to conduct another follow-up questions which were asked by In April, when the first survey was conducted, 62% of all respondents claimed that they intended to vote for Govenor Dukakis, while only 33% said that they would contends that the approval throughout the summer survey this spring. He hopes students. Phone numbers were rating is closely related to vote combined with the President's that the Political Science randomly generated and were in choice. He explains that as the visit to the Soviet Union and Department will again be able exchanges throughout the President's overall approval the removal of \the sleeze to sponsor his research. \To be Capital District. The margin of increases, Bush is reaping the· factor - Meese., along with the able. to survey people again in error on all of the statistic& is rewards of his current office. · ending of the Deaver incident the spring would mean, that we plus qr minus 5 points. Union's Symbolic Presence The Same Difference A frank opinion from an exchange student on Union College and its lifestyle. Homecoming Football Gridders recapture Dutchmen's shoes 27-0 crushing any RPI hopes of a victory over Union for a second season. A feature article on the College's architecture and it's · rather significant significance. 7 .. I

Page 2 CONCORDlENSIS :octobet 20, · }'988. - OJancnr~ien~:ts \,NEWS ANALYSIS ~ ' ' Presidential Debate Yields· F8Jled Expectations By JED FERDINAND·. , and mechanical; he sounded . would not allow h~mself to · • Michael Oukakis responded teduce. The candidates also more like a problem solver make a mistake. 'This. debate that h.e simply does not •• disagreed over Bush's choice of The second and final • · than a man who could l€ad this. i was Bush's last major obstacl~ ' approve of its use. George . Dan Quayle as running mate. P residential debate on October ·.I · • t El' ti' D · d' · · B h 1 · · · ·li h.. · Wh. 'L B h tt 1 d -~' de.-:~ nation in times of crisis. , pnor o ec on • · ay,. an a · · • >~:lS , c t.Urtung t at . IS VIew· · · l e us s ong y e1.en u l3 may prove to be the ' Furthermore, Dukakis was · strong performance wo~ld represents mainstream • Quayle, Dukaki.s scared his deciding factor for George Bush . much less aggresive than in the solidify his lead in the po1ls. American opinion, said \some ·. biggest victory of the evening in the Upcoming· election. The · · T. h he·n asked if hi's f:ath · h · \ h b · · th. B h ~- ·1· d · first. debate. This strategy hurt · · · us,_ w .. . · · er crunes are so · e1nous · t, at . · y stat1ng · at ' ·us 1.ai: e · m confrontation between the two , . him a great deal, as he failed to. . woul~ be ash~med -of his they req;uin~ the death penalty. his first major decision of th~ candidates WB$ essentially even, negative campmgn style, he campaign. as neither really dominated the · · politely objected and tried to The final presidential debate flow of the debate. Yet, this (Duka·kis) sounded more ; elicit sympathy by claiming . Bush appeared confident has .left most Republicans ' was an event which Michael like a problem solver that it was the Democrats who · · h • h ready to inaugurate George Dukakis not only needed to than a man who could k d h · h · th · · · • • • as t e Dig t attac e · ts c aracter at ett . •. progressed, ,u became Bush right at this. moment. Win, but to win decisively. lead this nation in times convention. this was a vast · . apparent that be would They forget, however, that This debate was supposed to be of crisis. . improvement over tile Bush of nnt allow hi·mself to their candidate has a long his vehicle for gaining old who would have become make a mistake. history of committing serious momentum and making up angered at the premise of the political blunders, and of ground in the polls. Dukakis force Bush into some sort of question. losing elections. There is failed to do so, and was blunder or contradiction. In the Compared to the previous plenty of time for him to do therefore perceived to be the first debate it was Dukakis' presidential an·d vice- The candidates also clasned ' both; Yet, the outcome of .the loser. Thus, Dukakis was not aggressive attitude that forced . presidential debates, · this over what cuts would have to·· · debate should not ·b¢ taken beaten by George Bush. In a Bush into claiming that he · • confrontation had much less •be. made in defense ~pending. to lightly: Dukakis had to win sense, Dukakis beat himself: would deem women who have drama, yet more discussion of · help reduce the budget deficit tMs debate to make up ground his performance failed to meet abortions criminals. Thus, substantial issues. Both · Bush refused to name any : in the polls, and he did not. his own lofty expectations. Dukakis missed a key · candidates eased up on harsh weapons .systems which he· Thus, Dukakis has dug himself This was the last chance for opportunity as Bush ·escaped i rhetoric and even managed to wouid elimina~, claiming that into ahole from which he may Michael Dukakis to address the without a blemish to bis record find praise for each other. Y~t, he would rather save them for never recover, With only.three American electorate as a whole or character. ·• most importantly, this debate negotiating purposes. Dukakis. weeks remaining in the in the hopes of getting his \we George Bush appeared brought ounhe vast.differences responded- strongly by saying election, and.Dllk'ald,s trailing can do better\ message across. confident and relaxed between the two candidates. that military- and ,economic in both the popular and While Dukakis appeared throughout the debate. As the When asked if he would spending cannot be separated, electoral polls, it appears to be competent and comfortable, his night progressed, it was • Javor the death penalty, should .. and then gave a list' of weapons Bush'.s election to· win or to answers were quite systematic apparent that George Bush his wifeberapedandmurdered,, .systems which he would lose. Alcohol Use: A Cross- Cultural Approach By AMY BABOFF men under the age of thirty from drinking. Are you AwARE of other The English and the Irish, cross-cultural differences in however, regard the drinkin2 of alcohol usage? Our modern alcohol differently. The drinking patterns are actually invasion of the Saxons brought products of cultural evolution. with them to British territory From a socio-cultural excessive drinking behavior viewpoint, alcohol contentions · which then became customary range from the charge that it is among all classes. The Irish the chief destroyer of regarded drinking as a symbolic civilization to the claim that is certification of · kinship. an important component in the · Drinking is also common in clevelop.mentt of civilization. political and economic The ideas, standards and values contexts, especially in the of alcohol as a beverage have . manifestation of party factions been passed down from iUld fights. In comparison with generation to generation. · ·ethnic groups such as the Jews,Italians, and Chinese, by The use of wine, beer and . who alcohol is used primarily other alcoholic beverages dates .for ceremonial and festive back to 3000 B.C. Historically purposoes, the circumstances and geographically, thoughts for which alcohol is concerning alcohol usage appropriate for the English and varies. The Egyptians generally the Irish is less clear. Thus, a express no fee1ing against socio-cultural variable emerges excessive drinking · which describing the relationship contrasts the principles of the between the average level of neighboring Moslems who are alcohol use in the culture and regarded as the most the frequency of alcohol abstemious of all ·people. For . problems. some ethnic gr.oups, alcohol is As .for Americans, the reserved for ceremonial. Indians looked upon purposes. For example, the · intoxication as a state of Jewish culture has woyen inspiration imparted by the drinking into their traditional · divine spirits. When the early rituals of holy days and English colonists arrived, they holidays. Otherwise, the · brought with them the drinking doctrines of temperance and · habits and customs of their moderation are supposoed 1:9 be mother country. They were followed. The Chinese, Greeks · accustomed to~ alcohol and saw and Romans believe in . no evil in its us~. punishing those who engage in The use of alcohol as a, excessive, habitual drinking ·. beverage is both varied and behavior. Proof of this practice world-wide. One's ethnic, comes from Chinese edicts historical, and religious declaring the beheading of background are factors in its liquor drinkers, from references use or misuse. Alcohol in works by Homer and Plato AWAREness involves an describing the consequences introspective look at who you faced by individual drunkards, are, where you come from and and from Roman laws why you choose to drink or restricting all women and those not. Questionabl-e News Polls .lndicat~. Bush For A :Landslide Victory By BRAD MONDSCHEIN An October 13 ABC News/ Washington Post poll says Bush is ahead, giving him a landslide victory. ABC News , reported that if the election were held today' Bush would . receive 220 electoral votes compared with 56 for Dukakis. The telephone poll was conducted of 10,000 people · nationwide. The data was · collected for each state and • divided up into five categories. : The categories were: 1. pro· Bush; 2. pro-Dukakis; 3. leaning towards Bush; 4. ' leaning · This poll iS- very inaccurate • for several reasons .. The poll only .involved 10,000 people . nationwide, which averages to 200 people per state. The margin of error for this poll is • approximately 8%. The impact : of the poll on campaign workers according tp Professor Tidmarch, Chairman of the Political Science Dedpartment, \is greater than on voters.\ The campaign workers for Dukakis will work harder in the close . grabs\ and means tha~. \their states, but they might abandon ~. · camp<Q_gn is in trouble.\ He the campaign altogether in the · expressed the concern that'the states that ar.e locked up. Tfie Bush campaign in New York inaccuracy -of the poll could cannot stall on reports that have a great effect on the • New York is going to go -election due to the impact of towards Bush. \They have to campaign workers .. Ordinary stay the course,\ stated the voters will not be as director. The Democrats could susceptible as campaign .notbereachedforcomment. workers. Some vo~rs will vote • The ABC report never Some voters will vote . for Dukakis to belp him win the close states, while others will vote for Bush, because they don't want to vote for someone who will lose. for Dukakis to help him win' the close states, while others will vote for Bush because they do not want to vote for someone who will lose. One of the states reported to be leaning towards Bush, is · New York. The Executive Director of the New York State Republican Party, however, does not agree that New Yotk . is leaning towards Bush. He said that his .state is \up for mentioned the poll's margin of error. The public is very . impressionable and the accuracy of political polls · should be told to tllem. This . poll does not coincide with other polls. in New York. The N~w York polls show the state as a toss-up. The margin of error in. the· ABC/ Washington Post poll should have been reported to the public so· that it could hve understood the nature of the findings.. Bush supporters~ be happy the Dukakis campaign is in . trouble. Yet, Dukakis supporters, don't despair, as the poll is very inaccurate and it . should be taken a Utt1e lighter than A_BC and The Washington Post inte!ld. · Volunteers needed to help with an exit poll project on election day. Benefits include:· an interesting experience, an opportunity to watch the election results come in on channel 13 on election night, and a dinner/reception for all volunteers. Contact: Prof·essor Schmee at x6248 -- Professor Schmidt at x6218 or Profess-or ·Holbrook- Provow at ·370~6225.-- , ' l ., i

I I ' CONCORPIENSIS Qctobe:r 20,. 1988 Page 3 · Political·Activist to Sp·eak In Capital District By JAY FREELAND News Editor Bernadette Devlin Mc.Aliskey, the youngest tnem:ber of the British Parliament, will be in the Capital District to spealt Ol\ October 23'and 24. One of the shot and. killed 14 unarmed civil • rights marchers. When the British Secretary of State· · subsequently ·lied to the House about the incident, Mrs. McAliskey attacked the Secretary and got into a hair- pulling match with him right on the floor of the Parliament. Mrs. McAliskey's leading. · involvement il) protesting anti- · Catholic discrimination in · · • . ho1,1sing, jobs and education :will · .. ·ru~o be a topic ofdiscussion. Mrs.. McAliskey and her · husband have been in the limelight of political protest in northern Ireland for 2(f years now. Seven years ago., the two · of them barely escaped death at their home. In f98t, British soldiers directed a pro-British assassination squad to the home of the McAliskeys and trie.d to kill them. Recently, Mrs. McAliskey · has .directed her attention Pol.itical Activist Bernadette MeAl is key towards the plight of Catholic p~soners in British jails. Of founders of the Civil Rights special interest to Mrs. · Movement in northern Ireland, · McAliskey is the unjust Mrs. McAliskey will deliver a imp·risonment of the s-peech an the twentieth Birmingham~ Six and the .anniversary of the CivilRights British policy of strip- Movement and how it brought searching women prisoners. about the current generation of . Her latest book,. The Price the Irish Troubles. of My Soul discusses her In 1969, Mrs. McAliskey · · latest endeavors and her was elected to the British accomplishments to date. Parliament at the age of 21. . Since that time, her political ~ctivity has only increased ahd . srle is now one of the most' famous women in \British· politics. Of the issues she will ·discuss, Derry's Bloody Sunday incident will be at the top of her list. In 1972, British soldiers Mrs. McAliskey will speak on Sunday, October 23 at the • Knights of Columbus, 375 Ontario Street in Albany and on Monday, October 24, at Roger Beacon Hall at Siena College. Both dates will begin at 7:30p.m. CDC NEWS The following companies still have openings on the· schedule. If interested, stop by the CDC and sign up for an inte.rview time With resume and transcript. Clough Harbour ----GE majors- 11/10/88 C_ontinental. Telephone Co.-·CS majors-11/8/88 · F1rst Investors- Any Major- 11/10/88 Geary Corporation-. Any major with ability to program - 11/9/88 International Paper- ME, EE & CE-10/25/88 Naval Underwater Systems- EE -. 1 0/25/88 New England Power Service- EE -11/3/88 US Dept. of Energy-ME,EE &DE-. 11/9/88 Upjohn_ Pharmaceuticals-BI ,CH-10/28/88 Grad School: Washington & Lee University School of Law-. 11/2/88 - Resume Referral: . ls·land Hecreational-· All majors, deadline 11/14/88 ·SEA Consultants- CE.ME &EE, deadline 11/4/88 Security Battles Increasing Problems \By ELIS'E FOODY · News ·Editor Schenectady police as well as Union Colle,ge security officials . are still investigating an incident which occurred early last Sunday morning involving the attempted sexual assault of a recent' Union College graduate. According to police reports, the victim's car broke down in the vicinity of Union Street and: Nott Terrace at approximately 5:30 a.m. The woman then walked towards Gillespie Street hoping to gain assistance from some friends. WhHe walking towar.ds Gillespie, a man driving by in .a car stopped, got out of his car and ran after the woman. He caught up with her, assaulted her and strangled her until she lost consciousness. After she regained consciousness, she went to her friends' house where she was promptly taken to Ellis Hospital. Later she was able to give a description of her assailant to the Schenectady Police Department. This incident is just one which is keeping the .office of Campus Safety and Security extremely busy. Although this is the only occurrence of its kind to be re}5orted, there remain a sizable amount of other security problems facing the campus. Paul Mantica, Director of Safety and Security, cited several property crimes reported to his office within the past month. Specifically, there were two incidents this past weekend · in which dorm rooms in Potter House and Richmond House were broken into by burglars. In one instance, the burglar cut .through a window screen with a knife and proceeded to enter the room through the unlockect window. In most cases such as these. cash, jewelry and other vruuables are among the most common. items stolen. Mantica stated tltat there have been approximately five burglanes or felonies involving forced entries a11d \a number of thefts · of personal property.\ For example. this past weekend, stereo speakers were stolen from a car parked in the West College tQt. As well as personal thefts, there have also been a nUITlber . of thefts and vandalism to school proper.ty, which Mantica believes are due to rowdy, intoxicated students during weekend activities. Am<'>ng the property that was · stolen from the College was a Union College sign placed on the Frank Bailey Field valued · at eight hundred dollars. There have also been numerous other signs stolen from within buildings on campus which Mantica said \when added up over the year equals an expensive affair.\ Paralleled to these events, · there was also recently a dangero11s incident where the spigots of propane gas in a concession stand were turned on releasing significant amounts of propane gas. Mantica was quick to point out that while this occurrence may seem ttivial, the seriousness of the problem is recognized when one thin:ks about what could have happened if someone smoking a cigarette had walked by the area. There have also been approximately four or five times within the last two weekends that s~spioious looking people have been Cited in campus buildings. Mantica cited a circumstance at Richmond where a man wanted for criminal mischief . was arrested. There have also been arrests on campus of an elderly alcoholic man and a former . college employee. Overall, the Office of Safety and Security has reported an increase in petty theft., prank phone calls and vandalism tllis year as compared to last year. There ·has however been a decrease in tthe amounts of criminal mischief to vehicles in comparison to last year. ln an attempt to correct ~ese security problems, Mantica offered several solutions. 1'he. first and most important is that students must report any and all security incidents to the Safety and Security office. Mantica. stated \if people experience a crime against them, even if they feel it's insignificant, it's important that it be reported to til is office.\ If this is done, then the College can decide whether or not to hire more manpower and what steps must be taken to protect its students. Currently. Security is mandating special patrols to deal with campus vandalism. They're also keeping the lights on over such areas as the astroturf field, and are hil'ing extra security officers for overtime work. Mantica also stressed the importance of students not propping (\()nn entrances. Doing this only invites more theft and vandalism, as well as the possibility of assault. Mantica and the Safety and Security office are aware of the campus security problems and emphasize the importance of using common sense and locking all doors as well as pulling the shades of wind<Jws to deter possible criminals. He stated, \we know there are people roaming around campus ... and it is unfortunate that we must react after the fact.\ · In response to this, Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students, is issuing the following security measures to all students. in an attempt to combat any future difficulties. •We urge that all students, especially women, not travel alone at night. • If you are working alone in a building at night, please let Security know. If you would like t~ be escorted to your car from the buil<ling, Security will be glad to help. •If you.mu~t go out at night, do so with a buddy, and let someone else know where you are gomg and when you expect to arrive. Use the most well-lit walks and paths. •All students, including those living in the near vicinity off-campus, are encouraged to use the Escort Service provided by our Security Department. Have your keys ready for entering. You may ask the Escort Service to remain until you are safely inside. •All students ~re remind~d to keep their residences (both on campus and off-campus) lock~d at all t1me~. Please do not put cans, bricks, etc. in the front door to prevent it from closmg. Such act1ons on campus may result in a $50 fine. •P,Iease report any intruders on camp~s or in your neighborhood immediately to Security at370·6911 or the Schenectady Police Department at 374-7744. When you party remerllber to ... REVISED STUDENt FORUM FALL TOUR SCHEDULE Dlln't get wrecked. lf}~Jtt're not sober-<.>ryou'renoi sure- M someont• else dothe driiing A illl'l'.~ pn~idt'll b) tills JWI\SJIJPCr . wtd llt'i.'i' Dri!)kl.'tSof'.-llliCrk! DATE October 20 7:00.PM October 27 7:00.PM PLACE AGENDA Bronner House Minority Issues on Campus College Center Use of The College Atrium Center November 3 Richmond 7:00PM Women's Issues/ Security

Page 4 CONCORDlENSlS October 2Q, 1988 Thursday, October ZO ~FTERNOON SESSION 1:30-2:30 P.M. 11:00 A.M .. - 5:0n P.M. CABS Executive Council Meeting, Hale House Lower Lounge; Union College OPEN TO PUBLIC \The Death ·Of Hector,\ a dramatic performance by Fr~ F. Fowle IlL This is a solo dramatic perfor- mance in English of Iliad XXU that recreates the role of the Homeric bard. Fowle's 800 performances in this country and abroad have received great acclaim. This program is sponsored by both Union College and CABS.. College Center Auditorium. · 7:00 - 8:00 P~M. Registration, College Center AuditoFinm 8:00 - 9:()0P.M. OPEN TO PUBLIC \Gifts of Clay: New Insights on Votive Figurines from Southem Italy,\ an illustrat- ed lecture by Professor Am- merman from Colgate Univer- sity on her latest archaeo- logical work College Center Auditorium 9:00P.M. 8:00 am - 12:00 8:00 - 9:00 A.M. 8:00 - 9:()0 A.M: 9:00 - 9:45 A.M. Informal get-together, Holiday Inn, Suite 243- 245: Friday, October 21 MORNING SESSION Registration; Hale House Entry Coffee and doughnuts, Hale House Dining Room Emporium and Exhibits, Hale House Dining Room CAES Business Meeting, Wel- come by President John Morris, Union College - Hale House Dining Room WORKSHOP SERIES #1 A LA TIN PROFICIENCY EXAM - ORAL SKILLS l0:00-l0: 4 5 A.M. · PART, Judith Greenwood, Albany High School; Hale House Lower Lounge B. LA TIN FOR THE LESS ABLE LEARNER, Mary Wilson, Niskayuna High School; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) C. DRAMA TIC READINGS/CLASSROOM DRAMA, Julia Gascoyne, Great Valley High School Malvern, PA. and Joanne Gascoyne, The Albany Acca,demy; Hale House Dining Room 11:00-11:45 A.M. A. LA TIN PROFICIENCY EXAM - WRITTEN PART, Richard Gascoyne, Associate., Bureau of Foreign Languages Education, State Education · Department; Hale House Lower Lounge 12:00-1:00 P.M. B. US-CANADA LATIN STUDENT EXCHANGE, June LeRay, Haverling HighSchool, Bath, NY and Ken Turnbull, Barrie North Collegiate, Barrie, Ontario, Canada; Hale House Dining Room C. LATIN POETRY FOR BEGINNING AND iN1ERMEDIA TE STUDENTS, Bill Mayer; Hunter College, NY and Ruth Adams, Port Washington High School, Port Washington; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) A buffet lunch will be served in Old Chapel. 3:00-4:00 P.M. 4:00-,S:OO P.M. 7:00-7:45-P.M. 8:00P.M. 8:00-9:00 A.M. 8:00-9:00 AM. 9:00-10:00 A.M. \HOW DO YOU REMEMBER ALL THAT STUFF . - - - - ' ANYWAY?\ a seminar conducted by Fra:nk F. Fowte· · III; College Center Auditorium. \~ Emporium and Exhibits, Hale House Dining Room EVENING SESSION Cash Bar, Old Chapel 25th Anniversary Banquet, Old Chapel Introduc'tion of Guests John Rexine, President, CAES Presentation of the George Constantou Memorial Award. · Recipient to be announced Presenter- June U. Stillwell Presentation of the Morton E. Spillenger Award for Outstanding Service in Classics. .Recipi~nt te beannomiced Presenter- William J. Mayer CAES Reminiscences by June Stillwell, Williamsville; Address: \The Real and the Unreal: Poets, Philo- sophers, and. Others\ by Frank Romer, Hobart-· William Smith Colleges. Saturday, October 22 Registration, College Center Coffee and doughnuts, Colleg~ Center OPEN TO PUBLIC \MUSIC AND MYTH, \ a lecture with both music and illustrations by Robert Lenardon, Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University. Professor Lenardon is the co-autho.r of Classical Mythology, the textbook used. in Classics 43, Classical Mythologly, at Union. Hisavocation for many years has been the study of mythological themes in many musical genres. College Center Auditorium 10:00-10:45 A.M. \ON ENTERING THE REAL WORLD,\ President David Porter, Skidmore College; College Center Auditorium WORKSHOP SERIES #3 11:00-11:45 A.M. A. PRODUCING PLAUTUS, Robert Simms, Emma Willard; Hale House Lower Lounge 11:45 A.M .. -12:45 B. ROMAN BANQUETS, Nancy Hanover~ Whitney Point High School, Whitney Point; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) G. STORY-TELLING IN LATIN, David Perry, Rye High School; Hale House Dining Room \Music and Myth,\ a lecture with both music and illustrations by Robert Lenardon, Professor Emeritas, . Ohio State University. Professor Lenardon. is the co- author of Classical Mythology, the textbook used in Classics 43, Classical Mythology, at Union. His avocation fQ.r many years has been the study of mythological themes in many musical genres. College Center Auditorium '{ ' ' ·, '

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS October 20,, 1988 Thursda:v, October ZO AFTERNOON SESSION 11:00 A.M. - 5:00 P.M. 1:30-2:30 P.M. CAES Executive Council Meeting, Hale H()use Lower Lounge, Union College OPEN TO PUBLIC \The Death of Hector,\ a dramatic performance by Frank F. Fowle IlL This is a solo dramatic perfor- fllaace in English of Iliad XXII that fecreates the :role of the Homeric bard. Fowle's 80@ performances in this country and abroad have received gfeatacclaim. This program is sponsored by botll U11ion College and CAES. College Center Auditorium. 7:00 - 8:00 P.M. Registration, College Center Auditorium 8:00 -9:00P.M. OPEN TO PUBLIC \Gifts of Clay: New Insights on Votive Figurines from Southern Italy,\ an illustrat- ed lecture by Professor Am- merman from Colgate Univer- sity on her latest archaeo- logical work. Colilege Center Auditorium 9:00P.M. 8:00 am - 12:00 li:OO- 9:00A.M. 8:00- 9:00A.M. 9:00 - 9:45 A.M. Informal get-together, Holiday Inn, Suite 243- 245 Friday, October 21 MORNING SESSION Registration, Hale House Entry Coffee and doughnuL'i, Hale House Dining Room Emporium and Exhihits, Hale House Dining Room CAES Busmess Meeting, Wel- come by PrcsidcntJohn Morris, Union College - Hale House Dining Room WORKSHOP SERIES #1 A. LA TIN PROFICIENCY EXAM -ORAL SKILLS 10:00-10: 45 A.M. PART, Judith Greenwood, Albany High School; Hale House Lower Lounge B. LA TIN FOR THE LESS ABLE LEARNER, Mary Wilson, Niskayuna High School; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) C. DRAMA TIC READINGS/CLASSROOM DRAMA, Julia Gascoyne, Great Valley High School Malvern, PA. and Joanne Gascoyne, The Albany Acca,demy; Hale House Dining Room 11:00-11:45 A.M. A. LA TIN PROFICIENCY EXAM - WRITTEN PART, Richard Gascoyne, Associate, Bureau of Foreign Languages Education, State Education Department; Hale House Lower Lounge 12:00-1:00 P.M. B. US-CANADA LATIN STUDENT EXCHANGE, June LeRay, Haverling High School, Bath, NY and Ken Turnbull. Barrie North Collegiate, Barrie, Ontario, Canada; Hale House Dining Room C. LA TIN POETRY FOR BEG INNING AND INTERMEDIATE STUDENTS, Bill Mayer, Hunter College, NY and Ruth Adams, Port Washington High School, Port Washington; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) A buffet lunch will be served in Old Chapel. 3:00-4:00 P.M. 4:00-5:00 P.M. 7:00-7:45 P.M. 8:00P.M. 8:00-9:00 A.M. 8:00-9:00 A.M. 9:00-10:00 A.M. \HOW DO YOU REMEMBER ALL rHA T STUFF ANYWAY?\ a seminar conducted by Frank F. Fowle III; College Center Auditori11rn. Emporium and Exhibits, Hale llo11se Dining Room EVENING SESSION Cash Bar, Old Chapel 25th Anniversary Banquet, ()ld Chapel Introduction of Guests John Rexine, President, CAES Presentation of the George ConstailtGu Memorial Award. Recipient to be announced Presenter- June U. Stillwell Presentation of the Morton E. Sj>illenger Award for Outstanding Service in Classics. Recipient to be announced Presenter- William J. Mayer CAES Reminiscences by June Stillwell, Williamsville; Address: \The Real and the Unreal: Poets, Philo- sophers, and Others\ by Frank R()mer, Hobart- William Smith Colleges. Saturday, October 22 Registration, College Center Coffee and doughnuts, College Ce11ter OPEN TO PUBLIC \MUSIC AND MYTH,\ a lecture with both musk and illustrations by Robert Lenan:lon, Professor Emeritus, Ohio State University. Professor Lenardon is the co-author of Classical J\1:y.thology, the textbook used in Classics 43, Classical Mythologly, at Union. His avocation for many years has been the study of mythological themes in many musical genres. College Center Auditori11m 10:00-10:45 A.M. \ON ENTERING THE REAL WORLD,\ President David Porter, Skidmore College;. College Center Auditorium WORKSHOP SERIES #3 11:00-11:45 A.M. A. PRODUCING PLAUTUS, Robe~t Simms, Emma Willard; Hale House Lower :to11nge 11:45 A.M.-12:45 B. ROMAN BANQUETS, Nancy Ifano-ver, Whitney Point High School, Whitney P()iat; Milano Lounge (2nd floor of Hale House) C. STORY-TELLING IN LATIN.DavidPerry,Rye High School; Hale House Dilling Room \Music and Myth,\ a lecture witli:both music and illustrations by Robert Lenardon~ ?mfessor Emeritus, Ohio State University. Professor Lenardon is the co- author of Classical Mythology, tile textbook used in Classics 43, Classical Mytfl()!ogy. at Union. His avocation for many years has been th~ study of mythological themes in many musical genres. College Center Auditorium

CONCORDIENSlS October 20 1988 · . ' . . Page 5 FEATURE ARTICLES On. the Way to Broadway • • • JJy LISA. CHERA.NJ)E ~ This past . weekend's adventures (and I don't mean Homecollring adtVentures} all Started when I decided that the Bro~dway hit The Phantom of the Ope'a was not a play to be missed. ironically, my roommate and I came extremely .close to missing it. Since I was the one r~sponsible for this weekend's mishaps, I feel indebted to write . this article partially as a dedication to my faithful roommate. Instead of spending a traditional Homecoming Weekend on the Union campus cheering on the ·Gamet :Qutchmen,. I encouraged my roommate to hit the Big Apple with m~ in search of a more \cultural\ means of .spending our weekend. We s:igned up in the Student Activities Office, which was sponsoring tickets and transportation to The -Phantom of the Opera fo1 what was to bcome. an adventure we would not forget. The bus that was taking us to New York City was to leave Union at 7:00 on Saturday · morning. As my roommate and I are not merning people, this was one factor we hesitatingly took into consideration. But in my mind we knew that forty- five dollars for a sold-out ·Broadway show was an opportunity we could not pass up. Unfortunately the ~vents - that took place Friday evening were not conducive to our w,ake-up call at six a.m. For one thing, it was . the first evening ef Homecoming Weekend. Beyond that, living in West College is detrimental to sleep. In that evening alone, we had two fire drills, both after two a.m. and within an ' hoot ef each Other. (I believe West had the highest amou.nt of unplanped fire drills last year.) At six o'clock when the alarm went off._ I· mistakenly turned it off, rather than snoozing it. My roommate-and I were then unconsci0us until ten when we both sat up. I thinlc living with someone p~ts you on the same biological clock. We looked at each other with a glance that knowingly said,. \I can't believe we just did this ... \ Our only alternatives at this point were either to take public transportation to the city or drive ourselves. We would have opted to take Trail ways, except tllat we woqld have missed the first act of the play. Driving to New York City was not the best choice, but this was between explaining to our parents why we missed the bus and wasted fifty dollars, or taking the chance ef finding our way around the city. I, being the adventurous type, persuaded my roommate to take her car to the dangerous traffic- filled streets of Manhattan. Driving to New York City is not an easy task if you do not know where you are goiAg. Though the layout of the streets is quite logical, Darwin's survival of the fittest is the underlying motivation behind most New York drivers. I must conclude that judgment because Bostonians seem to The 1988 Oxfam Fast By KRISTINE S. ROBINSON I know. You feel guilty. Americans have invented more ways to say tieat\ than the Arctic Indians have to say \snow.\ And we do. \Eat.\ Or, if not, it is by choice and not by need. In fact, it is more of an effort to \not eat\ here. We don't see \hunger.\ Sure, 'We hear about it happening. But, what can anyone do tohelp? Now, please den't think I'm ridiculing anyone. Unless, I am myself· included. Certainly, I am \willing to help.\ I \just didn't know how.\ .But now there aren't any more excuses. Oxfam America has ,taken the action that con~erts ''good intentions\ into \actual aid.\ Its is a non-profit, non-sectarian \international agency that funds self-help development projects and disaster relief in poor countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.\ Furthermore, the agency \prepares aJ!d distributes educational material for people in the United States on the issues of development and hunger.\ I know. I still haven't told you how you can help. Well, \this is it,\ so you'd better get the scissors ready to put this on your \refrigerator door\ (so you won't forget). The Oxfam Fast is Thursday,. November 10. If you. are on the meal plan, , you can donate between 1 and 3 meals; each for which Food Services will make a contribution to Oxfam America. If you're not on the meal plan. you can divide your weekly food bill by 21; and donate that amount for each meal you skip. Very easy. And, \meal-plan\ or not, if you happen to have extra money, you can donate that too. Sign-ups wi:ll be in· the College Center and West Dining Hall for just two days: November 2nd and 3rd. So, please don't \put it off,\ or you just may \miss the whole thing.\ I know,. I know. What about the-\ educational material?\ Good Question. In fact, one could say it is even more significant a contribution to the fight against world hunger for the effort to be made to educate oneself. It is through understanding that the battie shall be won. We must all try to understand \hunger and \not-having The donation is the \easy part.\ The educational programs will be on Wednesday, November 2, and Wednesdau,Noveinber 9, between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., in the College Center. the program On the second will be a slide show entitled \Kampuchea: The Forgotten People,\ and the ninth will be a videotape on Vietnam, Theater Fest Is Comi.ng \When the Night Comes.\ As proceeds from this year's Ox.fam Fast will be used to aid these countries, please make an effort to see the presentations. So, Here It Is. A chance to help the hungry. Please take the opportunity to do so. Ox.fam has done all the preparation. All we have to do is take advantage of it. And remember: sign-ups are November 2 and 3. Oxfam Fast 1988 is sponsored by Religious Studies and by SPAA. have the reputation of being the worst drivers, when, in fact, I found that New York drivers surpass Bostonians in that respect. Merging off the George Washington Bridge, the ·giant technological triumph connecting the island of Manhattan to the rest of New York, was quite unnerving. I could see before us the seething mass of the metropolis, yet I had no sense of where the theatre was located amidst this jungle. My roommate got onto the Henry Hudson Parkway. This road, built for approximately two lanes, was entangled with the traffic of five different lanes all driving to endanger, pushing their way towards the city. Fortunately, my roommate was a confident driver (she is from New York), .and we found our way to 54th Street. Following this street, we hoped we would intersect Broadway somewhere and follow that to 44th, where the Majestic Theatre was located. Somehow our reasoning ·got us safely to the theatre without us missing too much of the first act. The play was wonderful and well worth the frenzied panic in which we drove to the city. There is something magical about a Broadway play and Phantom of the Opera had that magic. Great special effects, a talented cast, and a touching love story all explain why Phantom has been such a hit since its arrival in New York. I highly recom~end the play, though ticket prices are astronomical and completely sold out for most of this year. Before I conclude, I am compelled to thank my roominate for taking on the challenge of the Big Apple with me and bearing with my singing to the Top 40. I'm sorry I'm a back seat driver. Pespite the street people banging on your car windows for money and the weirdos at the highway .rest station, who ran their hands through your hair, we made it home safely. Isn't cruise control wonderful? POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPT. PRE- REGISTRATION The Political Scienc~ Dept. wishes to remind studepts interested in taking bne of its courses that every course is a card course. If you wish to take one or more P.S. courses, you must oomplete and submit a preference fonn that will be available in the Political Science office (SS 216) on Friday, October 21. The completed fomis should be returned by 4:30pm on.Wednesday, October 26. Lists should be returned by 4:30 pm on Wednesday, October 26. Lists of those accepted into courses will be posted on Friday morning, October 28. Permission cards will be distributed on Friday, 10/28 and Monday, 10/31. Please be aware that there is no first-come first-served arrangement for any course. You may submit the preference whenever you want, as long as it is in our hands by 4:30 prn on October 26. No preference form will be accepted after that deadline.

CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 Page 5 FEATURE ARTICLES On the Way to Broadway • • • By LISA CHERANDE This pas.t weekend's adventtJ.Fes (and I don't mean Homeccmrlng adventures) all started w'hen I decided that the Broadway hit The Phantom of the Opera was not a play to be missed. Ironically, my roommate and I came extremely close to missing it. Since I was the one responsible for this weekend's mishaps, I feel indebted to write this article partially as a dedication to my faithful roommate. Instead ()f spending a traditional Homecoming Weekend on the Union campus cheering on the Gamet Dutchmen, I encouraged my roommate to hit the Big Apple ~ith me in search of a more \caltaral\ means of spending our weekend. We signed up in the Student Activities Office, which was sponsoring tickets and transp<Jrtation to The Phant()m of the Opera fot what was to bcome an adventarewe would not forget The bus that was taking us to New York City was to leave Union at 7:00 on Saturday morning. As my roommate and I are not morning people, this was one factor we hesitatingly took into consideration. But in my mind we knew that forty- five dollars for a sold-out Broadway show was an opportunity we could not pass. up. Unfortunately the events that took place Friday evening were not conducive to our wake-up call at six a.m. For one thing, it was the first evening of Homecoming Weekend. Beyond that, living in West College is detrimental to sleep. In that evening alone, we had two fire drills, both after two a.m. and within an hour of each other. (I believe West had the highest amount of unplanned fire drills last year.) At six o'clock when the alarm went off, I mistakenly turned it off, rather than snoozing it. My roommate and I were then unconscious until ten when we both sat up. I think living with someone puts you on the same biological clock. We looked at each other with a glance that knowingly said, \I can't believe we just did this ... \ Our only alternatives at this point were either to take public transportation to the city or drive ourselves. We would have opted to take Trail ways, except that we would have missed the flist act of the play. Driving to New York City was not the best choice, but this was between explaining to our parents why we missed the bus and wasted fifty dollars, or taking the chance of finding our way around the city. I, being the adventurous type, persuaded my roommate to take her car to the dangerous traffic- filled streets of Manhattan. Driving to New York City is not an easy task if you do not know where you are going. Though the layout of the streets is quite logical, Darwin's survival of the fittest is the underlying motivation behind most New York drivers. I must conclude that judgment because Bostonians seem to have the repl:ltation of being the worst drivers, when, in fact, I found that New York drivers surpass Bostonians in that respect. Merging off the George Washington Bridge, the giant technological triumph connecting the island of Manhattan to the rest of New York, was quite unnerving. I could see before us the seething mass of the metropolis, yet I had no sense of where the theatre was located amidst this jungle. My roommate got onto the Henry Hudson Parkway. This road, built for approximately two lanes, was entangled with the traffic of five different lanes all driving to endanger, pushing their way towards the city. Fortunately, my roommate was a ·Confident driver (she is from New York), and we found our way to 54th Street. Following this street, we hoped we would intersect Broadway somewhere and follow that to 44th, where the Majestic Theatre was located. Somehow our reasoning got us safely to the theatre with<>ut us missing too much of tl1e first act. The play was wonderful and well worth the frenzied panic in which we drove to the city. There is something magical about a Broadway play and Phantom of the Opera had that magic. Great special effects, a talented cast, and a touching love story all explain why Phant<>m has been such a hit since its arrival in New York. I highly recommend the play, though ticket prices are astronomical and completely sold out for most of this year. Before I conclude, l am compelled to thank my roommate for taking on the challenge of the Big Apple with me and bearing witn my singing to the Top 40. I'm sorry I'm a back seat driver. Despite the street people banging on your car windows for money and the weirdos at the high way rest station, who ran their hands through. your hair, we made it home safely. Isn't cruise control wonderful? The 1988 Oxfam Fast POLITICAL SCIENCE DEPT. PRE-REGISTRATION By KRISTINE S. ROBINSON I know. You feel guilty. Americans have invented more ways to say \eat\ than the Arctic Indians have to say \snow.\ And we do. \Eat.\ Or, if not, it is by choice and not by need. In fact, it is more of an effort to \not eat\ here. We don't see \hunger.\ Sure, we hear about it happening. But, what can anyone do to help? Now, please don't think I'm ridiculing; anyone. Unless, I am myself included. Certainly, I am \willing to help.\ I \just didn't la:Jow how.\ But 11ow there aren't any more ex:cuses. Oxfam America has taken the action that con\7erts \good intentions\ into \actual aid.\ Its is a non-profit, non-sectarian \international agency tltat funds self-help development projects and disaster relief in poor countries in Africa, Asia, and Latin America.\ Furthermore, the agency \prepares aqd distributes educati<Jnal material for people in the United States on the issues of development and hunger.\ I know. I still haven't told you how you can help. Well, \this is it,\ so you'd better get the scissors ready to put this on your \refrigerator door\ (so you won't forget). The Oxfam Fast is Thursday, November 10. If yoa are on the meal plan, you can donate between 1 and 3 meals. each for which Food Services will make a contribution to Oxfam America. If you're not on the meal plan, you can divide your weekly food bill by 21, and donate that amount for each meal you skip. Very easy. And, \meal-plan\ or not, if you happen to have extra money, you can donate that too. Sign-ups will be in the College Center and West Dining Hall for just two days: November 2nd and 3rd. So, please don't \put it off,\ or you just may \miss the whole thing.\ I know, I know. What about the \educational material?\ Good Question. In fact, one could say it is even more significant a contribution to the fight against world hunger for the effort to be made to educate oneself. It is through understanding that the battle shall be won. We must all try to understand \hunger and \not-having The donation is the \easy part.\ The educational programs will be on W e d n e s d a y , November 2, and Wednesdau,November 9, between 11 a.m. and I p.m., in the College Center. the program on the second will be a slide show entitled \Kampuchea: The Forgotten People,\ and the ninth will be a videotape on Vietnam, Theater Fest Is Coming \When the Night Comes.\ As proceeds from this year's Oxfam Fast will be used to aid these countries, please make an effort to see the presentations. So, Here It Is. A chance to help the hungry. Please take the opportunity to do so. Oxfam has done all the preparation. All we have to do is take advantage of it. And remember: sign-ups are November 2 and 3. Oxfam Fast 1988 is sponsored by Religious Studies and by SPAA. The Political Science. Dept. wishes to remind students interested in taking one of its courses that every course is a card course. If you wish to take one or more F.S. courses, you must complete and submit a preference form that will be available in the Political Science office (SS 216) on Friday, October 21. The completed fom1s should be returned by 4:30 pm on Wednesday, October 26. Lists should be returned by 4:30 pm on Wednesday, October 26. Lists of those accepted into courses will be posted on Friday morning, October 18. Permission cards will be distributed on Friday. I 0/28 and M<Jnday. 10/31. Please be aware that there is no first-come first-served arrangement for any course. You may submit the preference whenever you want, as long as it is in our hands by 4-:30 pm on October 26. No preference form will be accepted after that deadline. JOIN THE FAST Demonstrate your concern for the world's hungry. Skip a meal,- or fast for a day, and donate your food money to Oxfam America to fund self-help proje-cts and --di'saster relief in the Third World. H~t~ng~,r and poverty are not i,:ll'f!Viu: · , .· •~· Together, ~,·'~~: .. . \: ~~~ ~'~ .rr@k~:'~.Q~fehce •.

Page 6 • o I>' ~ ~ ~ \ ~ , -~ , I '_It .1 1 ' ,. 3 - \ -. ~~ CONC()RDIENSlS October 20,. 1988 FEATURE ARTICLES On Thinking ell By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor The followi11,g are a few quotations that I have encountered in the past couple of weeks that have caught my eye and have changed my life forever. Be careful of their deep, interesting, underlyng meanings. Some may be more complex than they appear to be at first glance so be wary. I suggest that you give each one careful consideration and serious thought Interpret 1hem as you wisb and do what you want with them. \Don't WClrry, Be Happy'i These four words say it all. I just wish that I had coined this perfect phrase a long time ago, but I didn't,. someone else deserves the credit there. This is the answer! The answer to a · great many problems that are simply created, exaggerated and fabricated in our own minds. Let our negatively false realities be conquered by this ideal expression. Why don't we all trade in our overbearing, mind .plaguing worries, cast aside the tension, the pressure, the ~tress, RELAX AND BE HAPPY! Why fight what we really want (or at least what most ·Of us >Featly want), to be content, t() he excited, to be satisfied. As silly as this may sound why can't we all be happy people. Life is too short to waste .precious time worrying illld not being happy. Yes, an .entir~ planet of happy people, so11nds · great, sounds fantastic. Don't you think so? \Dust Is The Enemy\ It is the enemy in more ways than one. It is everywhere. We will never be able to· rid ourselves from it and become a dust-free nation. Never, Never, Never. As a matter of fact we are all covered with Dust from head to t()e. Of course, the Ollie and Morris . By STEVEN COLE and BRETT MALOFSKY Once again 0 llie and. Morris had a pleasurable intemational dining experience. This time it was at Albany's El Loco. This time the cuisine was Mexican. Upon arrival we were greated by a very populated dining room decorated with the colorfu1 rugs and pinatas one might expect. Unlike so many Mexic.an restaurants this was _ far from a commercial restaurant-chain setting. It was rather warm and relaxing. We were seated immediately and. offered drinks. Ollie was a bit taken back. that chips and salsa had to be purchased rather than being complimentary. However, the chips were thin and homemade and we do insist that they be ordered. Ollie began witll the vegetarian chilli which was by far the most tasteful chilli that he has had in years. In fact, after the meal we found out that El Loco had won· a blue· ribbon for this in a national competition. It was not extremely spicy bat the sweetness of the onions enhanced the tlavor greatly. His Dine Out. what Morris enjoys best. This chilli wa5 also an award winner. The main dish of Pollo Flautas was, however, disappointingly bland. It consisted of shredded chicken in a crispy shell, but had no taste. The side dish of refried beans and rice, with more of the excellent, sweet onions, was very flavorful andhelpedtnake up for the chicken. For dessert we shared, (and we recommend this due to its size), the fried. dough topped with Ben and Jerry's Health Bar Crunch ice cream and a mug of coffee. The coffee was unf01tunately not as robust as the previous meal and was a tad anticlimactic. Ollie was pleasantly surprised to fmd so many well- balanced vegetarian entrees on the menu, and the restaurant's general care for this clientele. The service was prompt; however, we were dis~ppointed to find th.aLsome items were not in stock. S.uch items included the salsa picante dip for the tortilla chips and the El· Loco ·specialty dessert Bananacltanga. For your information, the waitress informed u.s that all ~eats are spicy, except the cheese enchiladas. main course, Frijole. Finally,. we feel that we Quesadilla, was moderately must discuss the price, which spicy and certainly cheesy· we can say was most enough for his taste. 1'he lard~ . reasonable, averaging less than free beans were swamped in ten dollars per critic. Overall; melted cheese and made the Morris would rate the meal filling and satisfying. · restaurant <>nly a fair place to Morris started with the' chilli· dine, while Ollie recommends con carne which was slightly: it to those who enjoy authentic on the spicy side, but this is · · Mexican food. layer of dust covering your skin is not as thick as the one covering: the sheets of your bed, the very bed you lay your invaluable body upon.' Thank God for water, shower, soap We must destroy the Dust. \The Pumpkin Is The Most .Underrated Vegetable\ and sweat which all help wash Until last week when I heard away the deadly dust and kill this .quote, I never really .gave these meaningless, good for the pumpkin much thought and nMhing daily obstructions. definitely not the consideration Although Dust is sometimes it deserves. It never crossed rny only a mere inconvenience at mind before that the pumpkin :other times it has the power to is indeed a vegetable. I have· destroy. Computer disk, tecord, always thot1cght of it more as a compact disk owners bewaie. decorative display piece for Not only can Dust' become a Halloween or Than;ksgiving. time consuming annoyance for Not only does the pumpkin tbose of us who do attempt to suffer from lack of recognition get rid of this creature with as an authentic vegetable, but du.st mops, rags, or any other it is also an innoc.ent victim of effective method but it can be • mutilatioq. It seems as though dangerous. Dust is a its main- purp<:lse on this earth photographer's worst is s-acrifice in order·to please nightmare. It is capable of those who enjoy engaging in producing irreparable ~age to the heartless ritualistic carving irreplaceable negatives therefore· and Slicing of this poor destroying photographs and vegetable. Smashed to the maybe even ruining one's ·point of humiliation and career. We all must band degradation the pumpkin together and defeat the enemy. somehow needs to regain its proper rights as a food.. Let us wipe its sad remains from the street and resurrect itS place in society. There is nothing wrong with decorating and displaying ~lir b~loved pu-mpkin,. as long as we do not allow ourselves to lose sight of the vegetable llature of. the pu~p:kin. It d.efmitely beats lima bems any day, I leave this one last ·quote solely up to you: \No Matter How Rich. And Famous You Are You Still Have to W~sh Your Face And Brush Your Teeth.\ That is America for you. If you have any qu<ltations that overwhelmingly excite y()u and you would love to share them with the rest of liS, please send them to Box 1931, a.nd label thern, Ccmcordiensis, :Features.· Thanks. Andy & Andy Interview with Chris .Kapostasy By ANDREW COLLINS . ·and · · ·, · ANDREW SEEWALD Mike Tyson recognizes her when she browses the stores of Crossgates Mall. She bas spent the afternoon with Donald , Tntmp. She has piloted the · Goodyear, Blimp. She has covered several national presidential conventions. She. has met Ted Kennedy, President Reagan and Dan Quayle. Privileged? Maybe Quayle is, but we're talking about Chris Kapostasy, the anchorwoman of the WNYT Channel 13 News. It didn't take Ms. Kapostasy very long to achieve her prominent ·position, but she has worked very hard for it, and, although she enjoys her job very much, she certainly does not take it for granted. Monday nigpt she too:tc time out to talk with these two reporters following the six o'clock newscast delivered without her cp-anchor Ed Dague. It might seem like an easy job, but in addition to fifty- to sixty-hour work- weeks, Ms. Ka.postasy is involved with various speci.al projects and speaking engagements.. \I do special reports and I do 11: lot of public appearances. I'm out, I'm giving keynote speeches, I'm emceeing charity fund-raisers. Three weekends in October are booked with public appearances/ says Ms. Kapostasy. Amo11,g her special features is a weekly series, ;,Monday's Child\ for Big Brothers/Big Sisters. \At least one day · a week I'm but in the morning or the early afternoon doing , sOl~ethirg crazy ·.with ;~.!;)me kid,\ Ms. Kapostasy relates: \I've been involved with them for just about a year n<lw • When Channel 13 started the _\For Kids' Sake\ campaign it mad.e a comnii tment t() children. They had a number of projects they wanted to :kn()W if I WflS interested in and r immediately keyed in on Big Brothers/Big Sisters.\ Ms.· Kapostasy 1 s interest in the program can be traced back to her family life when she was growing up in Ohio. \I'm. the youngest of twelve children: alld it's inconceivable to me, from. my background, not t() ha-ve a big brother or big sister around all the time. 'Both my parents worked; so they weren't necessarily there a lot,. but if 1 had a· problem or just wanted to talk to somebody, one of the eleven was always hanging Continued on page 7 SKI-TEAM DRY LAND -BE PREPARED TO RUM AROUND LIKE INDIM$- . ~:::::..

I ./ , CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 Page 7 FEATURE ARTICLES The ideal· city, 15th Century, Galleria NazionaiiE) Delle Marca, Urbino, Italy Unioq's Symbolic Design , ' By TOM SARTINI What is a symbol? A symbol is a concept that is · vast in implicatiott. A symbol does not have a set definition. If defined, it becomes abused; because symbols can be puceived differently by different people. Union College campus bas been atclrltectually blessed with a symbolic design and layout. The N ott Memorial stands alone in the eenter of the campus while all other carnpu:;;. buildings encircle it. Was this an intentional design? Most probably. The Union College campus has been !iesigned similatly to a classical concept .pf the fifteenth century. The concept came from Piero della · Francesca and is known as the Ideal City. round building stands solitary in the center of the proposed city and faces west. It faces this direction because the west has traditionally been the. land of discovery and growth. Tne round buildi!lg is ,equidistantly flanked on the north and south sides by 'buildings of simiJlar size and construction. To the direct north is yet another building of classical construction completing a . semii-citde ~ouild the center building. Such a layout is q!fite symbolic.. Especially· for college students who attend to discover and learn about information unknown to them~ The Nott Memorial itself carries gr.eat symbolism. Constructien on the· Nott began in 1858 upon approval of architect Edward Tuckennan Potter's design. (Potter~s family had much history and influence at the college. Edward was born in Schenectady and graduated from Union in 1853.) The sixteen sided domed rotunda is French architect Joseph Jacques Ramee reflect~ this conceJ}t in the planning of our campus in 1813. The concept ·of the Ideal City is thus: a lntervi.ew .. Continued fronf page 6 around within five feet of me.\ Ms. Kapostasy points out that there are so many single-parent homes where kids don't have a big brother or big sister to look up to for adult influence~ Nicholson and Meryl $treep. ~ -. . - In her limited amount of free time, Ms. Kapostasy also enjoys reading books, and she is .particulacy fascinated. with politically oriented works. Among books she has read recently are Landslide, a view of the Reagan presidency from 1984 to 1988, and Startley Karnow's Vietnam. Having done thousands of ' Ms.Kapostasy does not get to stories over her career, she · read as much fiction as she cannot always :remember each used to, but she names and every person, but her William Kennedy as one of her experiences with the Big favorite authors. Brother program have proven ·unforgettable. She says that \These things stick with you. because you feel that somehow you'vehelped have. an ~rrip~t.\ Ms. K.apostasy is also fond of many talents who have made an impact on her music world. Among lter favorites are Sting, U:2, Tracy Chapman, and, yes, The B<>ss, Bruce Springsteen. She has attended Sting and Springsteen concerts in the pa~t year. Surprisingly, she would not rank Barry Manilow among these perfonners. ''I'm into any kind of music that's · not heavy metal;. and any kind of music that's not pop.\ · Tw<> of her favorite stars of the big screen are Jack The late night person that · she is now is, what with her 11:00 newscasts, Ms. Kapostacy has become a big fan of David Letterman. You migl!t .think that it would be easy for a. member of an NBC afflliate to get tickets, but that is not the case. However, she · has been to· the show a few times, and offers insight to the Late Night host. \What's most interesting to me about going to see Letterman live is that he does a little warm-up and he's always much quicker and funnier even than he is on TV. He makes fun of the audience, things that could not possibly be scripted. I'm very impressed with how quick he is.\ sensitively placed and exposed for prime viewing. Potter had to conform to the preexisting plan of Ramee for they were already underway. He had no problem adapting to the layout for his main concern was the architecture of the Nott !tself. The Nott was not Pottds first architectual work. He had previously designed many churches. However, there is a common denominator among hjs works that is.,sy~bolically important. The use of five point and six. point stars often occur in his structures. -The five point star, or pentalpha, was oft~n used for decoration. It always points upwards. The six pointed star, or hex.alpha, is symbolic of unity; signified by the overlap· of two triangles. Such nse of these stars as ornaments suggests greater significance. The star motif is used in theNott. Significantly, the Nott is a building promoting an academic atmosphere instead of an Ms. Kapostasy was not always able towatch late night . television, because she was working the wee hours on campus radio at Otterbein College in Ohio, a school roughly the size of Union~ She was a broadcast journalism major and graduated in 1978 with honors .. When she entered college, Ms. Kapostasy did not necessarily plan on journalism, for her first love has always been politics. \1 had an idea that I was interested in politics and political advance work, but . I certainly didn't think I was ever going to be a television journalist.\ While rusllihg a sorority, she was asked by a sister to cover her evening newscast. From that point, Ms. Kapostasy was very involved in e;x.tracurricular activities at school \I was radio station manager, president of my sorority, in the student senate, I wrote for the newspaper. I was not only involved in a lot of things, but I was involved in leadership positions.\ Her leadership roles led to many lucrative offers from businesses; but bv that time she realized that she was bom to be a journalist. eccleistical atmosphere like other previous buildings Potter designed. These buildings also have a common ivy growing on their outsides. The ivy leaf has five points and coincides with the five point star. The Nott Memorial is covered with this ivy. It also has six point stars on its dome made up of five point sws. This design seerns most intentional. Another symbolic aspect ·Of the Nott is th.e use of the \Golden Section\ or Phi. Phi _is. the irrational number 0.608,, Phi is numerically achieved from a particular ratio. This ratio is found in the five point stars, the pointed arches, and the distance ratios between height and width of the Nott. Potter may ,have used such a ratio to support a theory of Plato's. In his Republic, Plato states: \It is like a line divided into two unequal parts; and divide each section in the same ratio ... \. Plato explains that the segments represent levels or representatien of truth. Once she was focused on journalism, she put more tangible things aside in pursuit of her career in news media. Some of the most fun I had was when I ~was incredibly poor, working in radio, working 18-hour shifts, getting paid a hundred dollars a week and living on onion rings.\ Those days tested her true love for journalism, and from that experience she draws her caveat to aspiring journalists, particularly those who wish to enter television, \Run for your life,\ she jokes, but then continues a bit more seriously. \Get your foot in the door, get an internship, and try to impress somebody.\ Believe it or not, Ms. Kapostasy is able to cite a few Maybe truth is w11at Potter ho.ped the Nott would symbolize with the use of the Golden Section. There are also small one and one half inch in diameter windows within the dome that have a five point star on them. Potter called these illuminators. Each lets in only certain wave lengths of light. In the dome, the full visible spectrum of light can be seen. This breakdown is symbolic. It shows the different parts of light which represent unity. This unity represents Union. Edward Tuckerman Potter never revealed the symbolic . content of his architecture in any of his written works or other communications. It is only upon reviewing his work. and few architeCtural writings, that clues become apparent and seemingly more significant. There may be mucl1 more to his work than that which has been touched upon. Maybe more will be noticed when the Nott is restored. things that she could have done to make herself an even better journalist. \I wish that I had stayed on the debate squad at school, it helps you to learn to think quickly on your feet. Governor Cuomo might be there for two minutes, and if you can't think of that question, or analyze what he says, your opportunity is lost.\ Ms. Kapostasy also stresses that any kind of writing course if of gr~at value for any kinds of jnumalism. She says that a good newspaper writer should be able to do news on television, and vice-versa. The feeling here is that Ms. Kapostasy would do just fme at The New York Times or even at Concordiensis. STUDENT FORUM FALL TOUR SCHEDULE ~ Place Agenda October20 Bronner House Minorities Issues 7;00 pm on Campus October 27 Richmond House Women's Issues/ 7:00pm Security November 3 College Center Use of the College 7:00pm Atrium Center November 10 West College The Meal Plan 7:00pm

. Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS October 20, 1988 Premium Quafity Imprinted Sportswear 50/SO AND l00°c HEAVYWEIGHT TS Fleece\veal\'- Jackets - Caps 6 - color capabilities Complete graphics service Ai.rbrush and Tie-dye Competitive quote + punctual delivery 399-7160 187 A Glenrid2e Rd. .... Scotia, N.Y. GOLDEN IMAGE BEAUTY AND TANNING SALON 'SPECIAL UNION COLLEGE DAYS' MONDAY & WEDNESDAY BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 10 .AM · 'LATE' $10.00 per haircut Can Gary 374-4367 ;:::=.========· ·===·· 10 % Ofr' To Students & Faculty NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE Expert Auto Repair - 24 Hr. Towing Hercu~es • Goodyear • Kelly Springfield ·~ 1501 Balltown Rd . . Schenectady, NY 12309 374-9751 o/isage J{air ana 'Tanning Stuaio . . 557Nott St. 374-0351 Specials of the Monl.. all perms are $10.00 off · nail tips with acrylic are $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off as(for •Jotl1tlf, •'13etfi •(jene - ALL YEAR •.I.gnn Haircuts are $5.00 of£ . Body Wraps are $10.00 off TANNING 100 visitsfor $79.00 can be shared waxing is also available _;;; __ ......... ..,, .rportll!Ollt . .•. :.lfASl-liON ATHl.:ETlC ClOTrl!NG oS1UOEJ'.JT DlSCOUNlS oB.ACIOO SCHOOL HEADQUARTERS oLOW. tOW PP.lCES :r • 10% off on any A· merchandise to ALL Students E R 0 B THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW!. --- H:ouRs: 4-12 EVERYD:AY Come Visit Us at th·e College ·Center CALL 370 .. 6060-- Delivery ls FREE with a purchase of $5.00 or over, · or a small pizza . 21 or Older? Come and par·ticipate in the Budweiser Beer vs. Non-alcholic Beer service, WHERE: The Rathskellar WHO: Anyone- faculty, staff and students over 21 years old,. WHEN: Friday, October 21, 2-4 pm WHAT~: 2 proofs of age required. Come and SfHI for Yourself If lllei'els Rellllly • Difftwtllft:e Bring A Friend!

CONCOI?DIENSJS October 20, 1988 •Premwm Qua.£ity Imprinted' Sportswear ~ll/50 A:--.JD !OOC\c HEAVYWEIGHT TS Fleecewear- Jackets- Caps 6- color capabilities Complete graphics service Airbrush and Tie-dye Competitive quote + punctual delivery 399-7160 187 A Glenridge RJ. Scotia. N.Y. GOLDEN IMAGE BEAUTY AND TANNING SALON 'SPECIAL UNION COLLEGE DAYS' MONDAY & WEDNESDAY BY APPOINTMENT ONLY 10 AM- 'LATE' $10.00 per haircut Call Gary 374-4367 10 %off To Students & Faculty NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE Expert Auto Repair - 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • Goodyear • Kelly Springfield 1501 Balltown Rd. Schenectady, NY 12309 374-9751 o/isage 9fair ana rianning Stucfio 557 Nott St. 374-0351 Specials of the Mon i.. all perms are $10.00 off nail tips with acrylic are $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off asf(jor • Joann •13e:tfi •fjene ALLYEAR •Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps are $10.00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 can be shared waxing is also available neaRers P-lUs IIL.NI--- ____ ,_....,, :>FASi-JION ATHLETIC CLOiHlNG ::>STUDENT DISCOUNTS oBACl( TO SCHOOL l-IEAD9lJARr;RS ':;LOW, LCW ?P.JCES fPO'U~r . ~ • 10';1; off on any merchandise to ALL Students 833 McClellan St. &henectady, NY 12308 372-4932 rc· ?!(~ A E R 0 8 WEAtl THE NEW ROC & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW! HOURS: 4-12 EVE·RYD.AY Come Visit Us at the College ·Center CALL 370-6060 Delivery Is FREE with a purchase of $5.00 or over, or a small pizza 21 or Older? Come and participate in the Budweiser Beer vs. Non-alcholic Beer service, WHERE: The Rathskellar WHO: Anyone- faculty, staff and students over 21 years old. WHEN: Friday, October 21, 2-4 pm WHAT: 2 proofs of age required. Come \nd See for Yourself H There Is Really 11 Differt~~~ce Bring A Friend! ' l I 1 i \ ' l i I '

CONCORDIENSIS October 2'0., 1988 - _ Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Portrait o-f the· Week: By SEAN FOX service possible. The Liberal - Learning Program -which Anthony_ Vr6\11dissis As a foreign student I am in Union advoc~tes is unlike the a uniqu~ position, both to learn British system where you study By NICOLAS BOCJI from and observe the American b · · college system. What follows one, 8 f. ject (or at the most , _ _ Is Anthony Greek or British? is ;In honest view of wh·at 1 ·s two;, 01 the four years. The The answer to this ·question is - ·- · LLP seems to me a much essentially an elitist, private . better system _ hllt I don't · not obvious especially when organi~ation-Union College, think at Union it is used to you read his name and listen to based upon personal and best effect. I i:hink students see him at the same time; ()ne general opinions of foreign it more as an easy option rather called Vrondissis can only be a stqdents. . · than a solid-academic and moral child of Athens but one wi~h One of the· first things that foundation for adult life. This ·. an accent like Anthony's must struck me about Union was its is a pity since the LLP offers · 1 have spent all of one's Iife size and b~auty in comparison 80 1n:uch scope for somewhere between Picadilli to the colleges in England. development. Circus and Hyde Park. Union is mightly proud of its · The final par.t of Union life, Obviously, this sitttation campus; but it is the people which is possibly the most confused more than one U.S. and not the buildings that make important to students, is the immigration officer. the place. In general people Greek system,. Union is known However, Antho-ny have been very unfriendly, as the ''Mother-ofFratetnities\ Vrondissis is real and his life ~~most -wary of this year's but I wonder would \Mother has nothing to do with E.'T.j·· eXchang.e students, I don't Fraternity\ be happy if .she here is a good way to look at'. know why? --we're perfectly knew what her children were \it: take a well bread Athenian- : ~ormal people. Our ·role as doing? _ . at the age of two, place him in ' ep:change students; is-probably It would se:em th.at . the fog on the .river Thames~m i ~- unclear to you, as it is. to us fratemides are simply a cover · and feed him with a lot of: i5 · -:-therefore, help us to a better for getting trashed and getting · _ pudding and tea; what you get·5 ~ipderstanding of your people laid. I understand this is more is Anthony, a_ blending of .. ~ a:Dd your culture.. to do with stereotypes than · Greek temperament and classic -~ :;~Another thing_which struck reality - but fraternities and English styl~. -e IJ}e when I flfst came to Union independents should make a Anthony has a full~time J:3 ~as the atmosphere Qf the conscious effort to do more to · student status; he did not come ~ He was born in Greece but -left for London very young, because his parents considered education better in England than in their homecountry. Even though AOlhony studied in a foreign country, he still felt a hundred percent Greek. Actually, he spent all his holidays in Greece and therefore did not forget about his culture_. Compared to Greece, England i~ politically more vacation:Now he considers his country more for leisure than fot working. He likes both England and Greece but for different· purposes: since he spends most of the year studying in a foreign country, whenever he has a holiday he spends. it in his homecountry. · He went to a boys school, where he had to wear a tie and a suit already at six years old. When he was 16, he had to choose the three subjects he WQuld have to study all t!U:ough university if he decided t() stay in England. After 16, he specialized in Math, Physics and Chem-istry. · A-nthony beFeves that at 16, a student should not be aske~ what hefshe wants to study for the next four years. This is why he finds the British educational system narrow minded. For him, ·America offered <fplleg.e. Unlike Bdtis-h provide different kinds of to Union tluough any exchange 8 Q:niversities .::~and colleges entertainmentan\i~put an end to program. As a ~tter of fact;:: , _ Anthony yrondissis W:nion seenis to4be run rather the stereotyp- es. . there·are,-not a lot of studentS: - -.. more· opportunities. Even though· high-schools usually· have a lower level than in Europe, 'undergraduate and graduate -universities offer a more challenging education .than on the Old continent. When he came to America, he visited Union College once and 'liked it right away. He finds it small but diverse and especially likes the fact that you can meet 1 ·:3. b _, · h · 't · u · b · ~ ':s ··.rible- and financially more -lA.e a . usiness~i .with the I think my __ position as an m 1s s1 uatmn. mon emg ~ - ~ h · fi d , - small c 11 f s~. prGfitab_le. Therefore, many ~~ .. p asts on pro.It an~ ·quantrty exchange studeflt at a Unio_n · · • 0 ege · ar rrom any· G h h · · · · k · reeks find it- very in_. terestl_ 'ng- r_--a,t er t an . qual.ity.· For was neatly_- d.· efined___ b-y ~--a. major Cltles IS not nOWit 1 h th h h d · ~settle in London, which h. as ep.amp e, t e exorbitant price·· .. eli .. ·.s. cussion I had with a senior, rong out t e worl- .~ \\' b k th Ho e · G · h ~ relatively large Greek ~h oo s at e book shop - he·satdf . .Iei~WJ~t,!D~ t4~ ~N}:J.i.sh . p- .wev r, m - reece, lt a' pommunity. Thus, when 1 y? Because its primary and the Amencan _ \We~·re -the gamed a good reputation{: , i!• · · A t all .Anth . ~ d \\' ~Anthony: was.· in England :he . very different ldnds of people. ·--~A good ' 1 exampl((of 'the f~n fi',!lrpose 15 to ~-~e ~·l!~Q/it nQt s~e ~~'Ym,:~rr~J~d \Xe.s~we ~ · c u Y~ · · · · on>:.~pan · ou~ :round himself with a lot of t~ offer the student the :best- ru.;e.;;; butrufferent\:! . . : . · ·~bdut --~nion,.eollege thr-ough> ·fri--- --- :·-· ' . . - . ' . ' ·-· . . his -cousin Who studied Iter~- ends :from \his own· country .. things .you can do in America.' more easily than in England is _his. Science and Tec~onology _ five years ago. ~- . Anthony never ha~ to study m Greece. Therefore wheri he ;. ·~ .\~ .... ..,......, ____ _...-:-\\---\'~'.- ~ent home it was only for page in the Concordiensis: that's learning the fun way! ._GERMAN FIL·M Rheing_ofd (1977) :Monday~ -Oct·o·be·r_ -· - .. - : .. 24th. ·- .. ~ . . cc 406 APPLY NOW FOR GERMAN UNIVERSITY EXCJlANGE ''(fUNI6tt· ._,, YEAR ABROAD) Each year Union awards two f.ull scholarships for St\ldy at a university in West Germany. Students who will have junior standing next year, and who have already starte<l to develep a working knowledge of the German language, are eligiable to be chosen to spendtlleir · junior y-ear at Heidelberg, Munich, Berlin, Bonn, or any of several other universities as holders of a full scholarship from the Feteratio of Ge-rman· Ametican Clubs~ For details see Professor A:nton W ~!Ide in the Department of Modem Languages as soon as possible. ' INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By ANTHEE CARASSA VAS ''What to you represents the United States?'' Cristina Calvi (91)- McDonald's ... Ann Mulvany (90) Ronald Reagan, and Schenectady. Sean Fox (91) - Baggy sweatshirts arid tights! Mike Greenberg (90) - Hot dogs, apple pie,. and John Cougar Mellencamp. Hans Schwatz (91)- Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Quayle and the Midwest. Avto Gigineichvili (91) - American flags on nearly every building ... They'~e everywhere! 1! Jens (T.A.) - Politics of slogans ... \Hi How're ya doin'?\ Fast life and slow driving. Brian Cossaboom (90) - Strong constitutional Democracy, strong leadership, and ~trong defense . Jaso1;1 Meshnick (91) - The Amish people are definitely representative nf the United States. They , haven't advanced in years~

. , :~ I i I I 1 I ' ri I I I ) CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 Page 9 The Same ·Difference . By SEAN FOX As a foreign student I am in a unique position, both to learn from and observe the American college system. What follows is an honest view of what is essentially an elitist, private organization-Union College, based upon personal and general opinions of foreign students. One of the first things that struck me about Union was its size and beauty in comparison to the colleges in England. Union is mightly proud of its campus, but it is the people and not the bui.tdings that make the place. In general people have been very unfriendly, almost wary of this year's exchange students, I don't know why? - we're perfectly normal people. Our role as exchange students is probably as unclear to you as it is to us - therefore, help us to a better understanding of your people and your culture. Another thing which struck me when I first ca.me to Union was the atmosphere of the college. Unlike British Universities and colleges Union seems to be run rather like a business with the emphasis on profit and quantity rather than quality. For example, the exorbitant price of books at the book shop - 'hy? Because its primary purpose is to make a profit not t() offer the student the best service possible. The Liberal Learning Program which Union advocates is unlike the British system where you study one subject (or at the most two) for the four years. The LLP seems to me a much better system - but I don't think at Union it is used to best effect. I think students see it more as an easy optio:n rather than a solid academic and moral foundation for adult life. This is a pi,ty since the LL:P offers so much scope for development. The final part of Union life, which is possibly the most important to students, is the Greek system. Union is lmown as the \Mother of Fraternities\ but I wonder would \Mathe~ Fraternity\ be happy if she knew what her children were doing? It would seem that fraternities are simply a cover for getting trashed and getting laid. I understand this is more to do with stereotypes than reality - but fraternities and independents should make a conscious effort to d() rnore to provide different kinds of entertainment and put an end to the stereotypes. I think my position as an exchange student at a Union was neatly defined by a discussion I had with il senior, he said, ref~rring to the British and the American- \We're the same arty.way\. Fsaid \Yes'we are .... but different.\ INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Portrait of the- Week: Anthony Vrondissis By NICOLAS BOCH Is Anthony Greek or British? The answer to this question is ROt obvious especially when you read his name and listen to him at the same time; one called Vrondissis can only be a child of AtheRs but one with an accent like Anthony's must i have spent all of one's life somewhere between Picadilli Circus and Hyde Park. Obviously, this situation confused more than one U.S. immigration officer. However, Anthony Vrondissis is real and his life has nothing to do with E.T.;. here is a good way to look at it: take a well bread Athenian He was born in Greece but left for London very young, because his parents considered education better in England than in their ho~necountry. Even though Anthony studied in a foreign country, he still felt a hundred percent Greek. Actually, he spent all his holidays in Greece and therefore did not forget about his culture. Compared to Greece, England is politically more ~. \ vacation. Now he considers his country more for leisure than for working. He likes both England and Greece but for different purposes: since he spends most of the year studying in a foreign country, whenever he has a holiday he spends it in his homecountry. at the age of two, place him in the fog on the river Thames ~ and feed him with a lot of ~ pudding and tea; what you get a is Anthony, a blending of g; : He went to a boys school, where he had to wear a tie and a suit already at six years old . When he was 16, he had to choose the three subjects he would have to study all through university if he decided to stay in England. After 16, he specialized in Math, Physics and Chemistry. Anthony believes that at 16, a student should not be asked what he/she wants to study for the next four years. This is why he finds the British educational system narrow minded. For him, America offered more opportunities. Even though high-schools usually have a lower level than in Europe, undergraduate and graduate universities offer a more challenging education than on the Old continent. When he came to America, he visited Union College once and liked it right away. He finds it small but diverse and especially likes the fact that you can meet very different kinds of people. Greek temperament and classic ;;_ English style. ~ , Anthony Vrondiss1s Anthony has ~ full-time ·~ ; student status; he dtd not come a: ·. to Union through any exchange§ . program. As a ll}.atter of fact, there are not a lot of students s ·able and financially more profitable. Therefore, many Greeks find it very interesting to settle in London, which has a relatively large Greek community. Thus, when Anthony was in England he found himself with a lot of friends from his own country. in his situation. Union being a· small college far from any major cities is not known throughout the world. However, in Greece, it has gained a good reputation,. Actually, Anthony found out about Union College through his cousin who studied here five years ago. GERMAN FILM Rheingold (1977) Monday, October 24th cc 406 APPLY NOW FOR GERMAN UNIVERSITY EXCHANGE (JUNIOR YEAR ABROAD) Each year Union awards two full scholarships for study at a university in West Gennany. Students who will have junior standing next year, and who have already started to develop a working knowledge of the Gennan language, are eligiable to be chosen to spend their junior year at Heidelberg, Munich, Berlin, Bonn, or any of several other universities as holders of a full scholarship from the Fereratio of German- American Clubs. For details see Professor Anton Warde in the Department of Modern Languages as soon as possible. Anthony never had to study in Greece. Therefore when he went home it was only for . A good example of the fun things you can do in America more easily than in England is his Science and Techonology page in the Concordiensis: that's learning the fun way! INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS ''What to you represents the United States?'' Cristina Calvi (91)- McDonald's ... Ann Mulvany (90) Ronald Reagan, and Schenectady. Sean Fox (91) - Baggy sweatshirts and tights! Mike Greenberg (90)- Hot dogs, apple pie, and John Cougar Mellencamp. Hans Schwatz (91)- Ronald Reagan, George Bush, Quayle and the Midwest. Avto Gigineichvili (91)- American flags on nearly every building ... They're everywhere!!! Jens (T.A.) - Politics of slogans ... \Hi How're ya doin'?\ Fast life and slow driving. Brian Cossaboom (90) - Strong constitutional Democracy, strong leadership, and strong defense . Jason Meshnick (91) - The Amish people are definitely representative of the United States. They . haven't advanced in years.

.·' .Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 <!Lomrbtrnsis Fou11ded at Union C(Jllege 18.77 ----- Alcoholic: Yo'u Don't Need A Degree To ·Be One This week is National Campus Alcohol Awareness Week. This week many students will ignore that fact. Nobody likes to be preached to, but if students will look at the issue of alcohol abuse with a fresh attitude, .. they might notice that nobody is preaching, only asking them to consider what it is and whether or not it affects · them in any way. Alcohol abuse programs are quick to point out that few alcoholics are the cartoon-character bum lying in. the gutter with a bottle in a brown paper bag. But our· generation is m.ore sophisticated than that. We know· that alcoholism cuts across boundaries of sex, race, creed, class etc. etc. etc. But how about age? Are we sophisticated enough in our thinking to dare to consider the possibility of alcohol abuse being problematic for college students? A member of Alcoholics Anonymons reflected on his college days in a phone conversation. \I wasn't a daily drinker, I was an athlete, and concerned about staying in shape. I played ball. But when I drank I got blind, and got in trouble. Looking back, I know I was an alcoholic.\ He voices a plea for anyone who thinks that they even might have a problem wl.th alcohol abuse to contact someone from Alcoholics Anonymous or a self-realized alcoholic just to talk about it. \It just can't hurt.\ \I can't tell someone if they are ail alcoholic or not, only they can tell that for the~selves, but it wouldn't hurt to talk to someone if they think that they might have a problem.' So go out, have fun, drink with your friends, but maybe for this one week, you could 'think about it. Promote Union's History A small liberal arts college located along the banks of the Mohawk River is fast approaching its bicentennial. With this auspicious occasion, opportunities to promote its heritage abound. It is the frrst college to be chartered by the Regents of the New York State. It is one of the oldest non-denominational colleges in the country exemplifying the College's forefathers determination to avoid the biases of the already established sectarian American colleges. Its campus is the frrst planned campus in the country · designed by the French architect Joseph Jacques Ramme in 1811. It was established as one of the 'big four' colleges in the United States after less than four decades of existence. It is the first liberal arts college in the nation to offer engineering. It promoted diversity of its student body by drawing students from all regions of the country, particularly the South. . What Union's history reveals is its \liberality of the educational vision.\ We have set numerous precedents. The· College has proved itself as a pioneer in higher education. And presently, the College is following this pioneer tradition by applying our forefathers' ideal of liberality in recent actions like the dropping of SATs from admission requirements. We are carrying on the Union ideal. But what we have failed to carry on is our history. Why don't we exploit our heritage--a heritage rich with tradition and precedent? Exploit it by promoting the College's history actively. Faculty scholarship on Union's history is perhaps the best way that we can add in the proliferation of our history. However, it is certain that such art initiative must start and be supported at the Administration level. LE'TTERS Homecoming S~pporters Thanked . To the Editor: We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and student organizations who supported Homecoming '88.. In paraticular, special thanks to the Student Homecoming Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend was felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events was extensive and impressive, and everything ran smoothly. We appreciate your time and efforts. to make this a spectacular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did •. Congratulations to all of you wlto participated in our 9th Annual Homecoming Parade. · The floats were terrific and certainly reflected a great deal of time and forethought. · Special congratulations to the win11ers: Best Overall-.-Delta Gamma/Phi Pelta Theta Best Interpretation ofThetne- -ELAS - Most Original--International . House Most Clever (Funniest)-- Nortb/South College Also, a special note .of · tbanks. to the Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and assistance in promoting .this big faLl weekend. We know that a great amount of tim~ and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office Staff has enjoyed working with this year's S:t u dent Hemecoming Committee and all of our s'tudent volunteers. We are already looking forward to Homecoming '89. Sincerely, Laura Cassidy '89 Marla Kapogiannis '89 Beth Deaner '89 l(risten ~antos '89 :Bob Bruhn '69 Kathy Mullaney ''74 Paul Rieschick '74 Sharon Clark Maria Chionnitro Kerry Mendez A.C.L.U~ Defended To the Editor: and the Pledge of Allegiance? Tb.ere are religious. groups such Your publishing without as Jehovah's Witnesses whose comment a ~etter from one beliefs do not permit them to Isaac. Colv1~ . abo~t ~he recite the Pledge of Allegiance. · Amenc.an C1vrl Llberues . · There are others who are Union. stimula.t~s my rising to agnostics or ~theists, or who the defense of the ACLU. subscribe to beliefs other than Candidate Bush asserts that the traditional Western AC:LU does not r~flect the religions, and therefor~ find it ma~ns~e~ of Amenca today. offensive to be r~uired to join and 1mphes that Senator in school prayer or in. the McCarthy W~ll;ld have had a Pledge. Our Constitution is good shot at 1~ member~ and suppQsed. to defend the rights of supp~rte~~· !he P~~e card all, even if Qley are not in the carrymg ts pecuharly a \mainstream'*. It is not too -McC~thyism and brings back diffi.cult for adults to deal with terrible memories of a this but it is the height of shameful time in American ~ · · history Its use has been invoked by Bush in the . pejorative sense, and is representative of the worst in political campaigning. I submit that the ACLU is a most important defender of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. If this purpose is un-American,. we are all in deep trouble. Because of its unswerving devotion to its purposes, ACLU frequently alienates people in various parts of the political.spectrum. For example, it defends the rights of Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan, and of Oliver North and Lyn Nofziger. I personally found it difficult to deal with the ACLU defense of the right of a Nazi group to march in a neighborhood· with significant number of Holocaust survivors in Skokie, Illinois, but I am grateful that there is an ACLU around to which I may tum for legal assisstance if my rights under the Constitution and the Bill of Rights are abrogated. What about school prayer LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NEGESSARIL Y REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD. ' 1 crlielty, to force these actions on children in ·the schools. The argument is frequently made that children can stand silently or leave the classroom. Those who argue for this as a benign alternative have forgotten how cruel young children can be to their peers who do no~ oonform. I sincerely hope that there _will be some Union response to this ,letter from Colvin. Ralph A. Alpher Distinguised Research Professor of Physics Union College' ' ' ·'

.Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 <!tllltCJlrbirnsis _LE_TT_E_Rs _____ _ Founded tlt Union College 1877---- Alcoholic: Yo·u Don't Need A Degree To Be One This week is National Campus Alcohol Awareness Week. This week many students will ignore that fact. Nobody likes to be preached to, but if students will look at the issue of alcohol abuse with a fr.esh attitude, they might notice that nobody is preaching, only asking them to consider what it is and whether or not it affects them in any way. Alcohol abuse programs are quick to point out that few alcoholics are the cartoon-character bum lying in the gutter with a bottle in a brown paper bag. But our· generation is more sophisticated than that. We know· that alcoholism cuts across boundaries of sex, race, creed, class etc. etc. etc. But how about age? Are we sophisticated enough in our thinking to dare to consider the possibility of alcohol abuse being problematic for college students? A member of Alcoholics Anonymous reflected on his college days in a phone conversation. \I wasn't a daily drinker, I was an athlete, and concerned about staying in shape. I played ball. But when I drank I got blind, and got in trouble. Looking back, I know I was an alcoholic.\ He voices a plea for anyone who thinks that they even might have a problem with alcohol abuse to contact someone from Alcoholics Anonymous or a self-realized alcoholic just to talk about it. \It just can't hurt.\ \I can't tell someone if they are art alcoholic or not, only they can tell that for themselves, but it wouldn't hurt to talk to someone if they think that they might have a problem.' So go out, have fun, drink with your friends, but maybe for this one week, you could think about it. Promote Union's History A small liberal arts college located along the banks of the Mohawk River is fast approaching its bicentennial. With this auspicious occasion, opportunities to promote its heritage abound. It is the first college to be chartered by the Regents of the New York State. It is one of the oldest non-denominational colleges in the country exemplifying the College's forefathers determination to a void the biases of the already established sectarian American colleges. Its campus is the first planned campus in the country designed by the French architect Joseph Jacques Ramme in 1813. It was established as one of the 'big four' colleges in the United States after less than four decades of existence. It is the first liberal arts college in the nation to offer engineering. It promoted diversity of its student body by drawing students from all regions of the country, particularly the South. What Union's history reveals is its \liberality of the educational vision.\ We have set numerous precedents. The College has proved itself as a pioneer in higher education. And presently, the College is following this pioneer tradition by applying our forefathers' ideal of liberality in recent actions like the dropping of SATs from admission requirements. We are carrying on the Union ideal. But what we have failed to carry on is our history. Why don't we exploit our heritage--a heritage rich with tradition and precedent? Exploit it by promoting the College's history actively. Faculty scholarship on Union's history is perhaps the best way that we can add in the proliferation of our history. However, it is certain that ~uch an initiative must start and be \Upportt..:d at tht: .\rh'1inistration level. Homecoming Supporters Thanked To the Editor: We would like to express our enormous thanks to aU the students and student organizations who supported Homecoming '88. In paraticular, special thanks to tfue Student Homecoming Committee who plam1ed and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend was felt by all. Thanks to all of you, the schedule of events was extensive and impressive, and everything ran smoothly. We appreciate your time and efforts to make this a spectacular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did. Congratulations to aH of you who participated in our 9th Annual Homecoming Parade. The floats were terrific and certainly reflected a great deal of time and forethought. Special coAgratulations to the winners: Best Overall--Delta Gamma/Phi Delta Theta Best Interpretation of Therne- -BLAS Most Original--International House Most Clever (Funniest)-- North!Soutll College Also, a special note of thanks to the Concordiensis staff for their fuU cooperation and assistance in promoting this big fall weekend. We know that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office Staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student Homecoming Committee and all of our student volunteers. We are already looking forward to Homecoming '89. Sincerely, Laura Cassidy '89 Maria Kapogiannis '89 Beth Deaner '89 Kristen Santos '89 Bob Bruhn '69 Kathy Mullaney '74 Paul Rieschick '74 Sharon Clark Maria Chionnitro KenyMendez A.C.L.U'a Defended To the Editor: Your publishing without comment a letter from one Isaac Colvin about the American Civil Liberties Union stimulates my rising to the defense of the ACLU. Candidate Bush asserts that ACLU does not reflect the mainstream of America today, and implies that Senator McCarthy would have had a good shot at its members and supporters. The phrase \card carrying\ is peculiarly a McCarthyism and brings back terrible memories of a shameful time in American history Its use has been invoked by Bush in the pejorative sense, and is representative of the worst in political campaigning. I submit that the ACLU is a most important defender of the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. If this purpose is un-American, we are all in deep trouble. Because of its unswerving devotion to its purposes, ACLU frequently alienates people in various parts of the political spectrum. For example, it defends the rights of Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan, and of Oliver North and Lyn Nofziger. I personally found it difficult to deal with the ACLU defense of the right of a Nazi group to march in a neighborhood with significant number of Holocaust survivors in Skokie, Illinois, but I am grateful that there is an ACLU around to which I may tum for legal assisstance if my rights under the Constitution and the Bill of Rights are abrogated. VVhat about school prayer LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD. ~-\'\\' -·=·=····\\\\\\\\\\\\\\\· ~----=-·- =-·- ==!! and the Pledge of Allegiance? There are religious groups such as Jehovah's Witnesses whose beliefs do not permit them to recite the Pledge of Allegiance. There are others who are agnostics or atheists, or who subscribe to beliefs other than the traditional VVestern religions, and therefore find it offensive to be required to join in school prayer or in the Pledge. Our Constitution is supposed to defend the rights of all, even if they are not in the \mainstream\. It is not too difficult for adults to deal with this, but it is the height of cruelty to force these actions on children in the schools. The argument is frequently made that chi:ldren can stand silently or leave the classroom. Those who argue for this as a benign alternative have forgotten how cruel young children can be to their peers who do not conform. I sincerely hope that there . will be some Union response to this letter from Colvin. Ralph A. Alpher Distinguised Research Professor of Physics Union College I I

< ' .I t:;ONCQRDIENSIS October 20! 1988 Fage 11 To the ~ditot: Last spring, I wrote a letter to the · editor of Con co rd'·i e iisls which contained several indictments of the fraternity systentat U.C. The letter claimed that the system is racist, sexist, an:d that U provides a setting for .potential .harm against women.- These accusations' ate harsh and, for the most part, unestablished by the arguments Dickson's I provided. However, what I hoped to achieve by taking . such . a hard line of criticism was the improvement of the system and not· its annihilation. · I have found thatone w.ay of determining whether a .person or an institution is worthy of a certain ·criticism is to accuse them outdgbt; i:f they. say nothing ar if they retaliate against the critic rather than ·address the criticism, then it is Republican Trustworthiness Ques~oned To the Editor: one hund.t:ed individuals come under investigation fOr unethical activities. Add to this As I sat down to watch my the Iran-Contra affair and favorite television show last Reagan/Bash's proclivity for week, what to my wondering dealing with such morally eyes should appear bu~ a upstanding individuals - as George Bush campargn Panama's General Noriega, and commercial. Fighting my one gets a pretty good idea of better instincts, I decided to the Reagan-Bush definition of hear what the one-:-and-future \trust.'' king had to say. To paraphrase: Is this the kind of leadership \Michael Dukak:is is too ~ we want for our nation? At a inexperienced; we cannot trust time when our leaders will face him to occupy the oval office.\ unprecedented challenges Trust, indeed! domestically and abroad, At this time it seems shouldn't we elect a president appropriate to say a few words who will be .honest with the about the Reagan-Bush Americanpeople? definition of \trust\: If a B ush~Quayle Meese administration brings with it Deaver the promise of more Nofziger \trustworthy\ iqdividual~ such Poindexter as these, it would seem that it North is Bush who is not to be Donovan trusted. Perhaps it would be Watt wiser to place our trust in Gorsuch-Burford Michael Oukakis and Lloyd McFarlane Bentsen! etc., etc., etc. In fact, the Reagan-Bush administration has seen ·over Seniors Sincerely, Phil Zaccheo '89 All Seniors that have not had their pictures taken may do so on 'November 10-11. Sign up with Mrs. Marra, 4th floor College Center. For all those wanting to re-take their pictures, there will b~e a sitting charge. · Garnet The faculty committee appointed . \to investigate -the effectiveness of · . ' . \ faculty irivqlvement 1~ gover~a:n~e at the College. 1s · sol1c1trng ·testimony .from th~ CoUeg.e · community. If you are Interested ~n sharing your thoughts on th.ls issue, _you are encouraged to ~ot1fy. ahy of the following Com~·1ttee members: John Boyer; Clifford Brown; Francis Federighi; Frank Gado; Jim Kenney (Chair); Kimmo Rosenthal; and Ann Seemann. LETTERS Fraternity Challenge Ends .. of individuals who took: 11nfair and, in certain cases~ f~rceful advantage of women. segrated (by sex and race) and that their institution to some degree con tributes to this likely that they are guilty. I did not (and do not) know if tlte fraternities on U !C. campus are sexist and/or racist; .several incidents in the past told me that they might be and, so, ·I raised the issue. However, against the pr~vailing attitude among people who followed last spring's scuffle, I do not .believe tht fraternities are inherently evil and am not hostile to their members. I am merely a critic fu[fjlJingwhat I believe to be an important duty of questioning an institution's right to exist in the way it does. Acting in its role, the institution must then answer these criticisms; defend itself against invalid criticisms in order to improve itself. Critics nught be seen to work against institutions but, in fact, they work with them. In effect,. I expected fraternity members of U .C. to prove my accusations wrong, but I also expected them to admit that their organizations had problems and that they, the protectors and enthusiasts of ·the system, would be anxious to improve themselves. I expected to hear them counter against my accusations that their \Rush\ is racist or that ··they allowed or even encouraged conspiracies of infamy to arise around certain . women. However~ I also expected them to acknoWledge the fact that this campus is · separation of students-- though . it might not be .the result of racist or sexist feelings. I expected thent to suggest ~ays they might safeguard agamst the process of recruitment being corrupted by racism and ways that sexist attitudes might be unanimously discouraged within the group rather than permitted. If the fraternities had or would make these efforts to confront and expel ignorance and prejudice as they exist in the hearts of men, then any critic who ca)Jed fraternities- anti- intellectual would be simply mistaken. Most importantly, though, I expected· to hear they they repudiated the numerous occasions of gang rape that have ocouted i:n fraternities in the recent past. I do not have proof of these infractions but everyone knows that they have occurred and have. gone unpunished. Unfortunately, what is done is done and it is not possible to correct those incidents; however, it is possible to take actions to prevent them from occuning in the future. The process begins with an act of good faith. The spokespersons of fraternities should openly repudiate the collusion of brothers who out of a sense of \brotherhood\ chose to overlook the criminal and morally repugnant behavior ToNY HARRIS w\\o was at Uruon wi4h Unfortunately, the deb-ate last spring degenerated (in ,part, <lue ' to my use of names il1. tile first article J wrote) into a b2ttle of wits which conpletely obscured what I still belireve are important issues. I ha-ve: yet to hear (but after talking t() one president of a fratemity feel certain I will) the fratemities' reasoned response tc tile criticisms that I, as a 1C1itic, not an enemy have offered~ I will end by just saying tl!at were it not for critics, aU institutions that are e:ietiicared to the exchange of ideas (a democracy, for exan1ple, or a fraternity) would coll(lpset•n<ier the wieght of their onw self- approving policies. You Jlat yourself on the back to(), hard or hike up your britches too often, you are likely to do yourself real injury. This is really the end,. I promise. In the adme11.is hrnent above, I was careful not to say \free\ exchange of ideas becaase to hear a criticism of yourself or your orga11b:ation usually costs you, sometimes dearly. However, irnprmErnent virtually means \e1e.telld~d existence: and whatevEr must be suffered in terlll.s of humility will be more than compensated for in tile continued existence: of y()ur cause. Of course. thisg()es for critics, too. Chidsey Dicks()n '88 . .l1J'Yler-kan .. &,w,r-e ~ 1\)il\ be back tor a w o rkskop o., RAC,fa' RELAnoNS 1tfUJeS pm C.OH~e' Ce.n~r Avd4-brium to -fol\cw . .

I ' .. i i I ! CONCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 Page 11 LETTERS Dickson's Fraternity Challenge Ends . of individuals who took unfarr and, in certain cases, forceful advantage of women. segrated (by sex and race) and that their institution to S()me degree contributes to this separation of students-- though it might not be .the result of racist or sexist feelings. I expected them to suggest ~ays they might safeguard agamst the process of recruitment being corrupted by racism and ways that sexist attit11des might be unanimously discouraged within the group rather than permitted. If the fraternities had or would make these efforts to confrollt and expel ignorance and prejudice as they exist in the hearts of men, then any critic who ca1led fraternities anti-intellectual would be simply mistaken. To the Editor: Last spring, I wrote a letter to the editor of Concordiensis which contained several indictments of the fraternity system at U .C. The letter claimed that the system is racist, sexist, and that it provides a setting for potential hann against women. These accusations are harsh and, for the most part, unestablished by the arguments I provided. However, what I hoped to achieve by taking such a hard line of criticism was the improvement of the system and not its annihilation. I have found that one way of determining whether a person or an institution is worthy of a certain criticism is to ace use them outright; if they say nothing or if they retaliate against the critic rather than ·address the criticism, then it is Republican Trustworthiness Questioned To the Editor: As I sat down to watcllmy favorite television show last week, what to my wondering eyes should appear hu~ a George Bush campa1gn commercial. Fighting my better instincts, I decided to hear what the one-and-future king had to say. To paraphrase: \Michael Dukakis is too inexperienced; we cannot trust him to occupy the oval office.\ Trust, indeed! At this time it seems appropriate to say a few words about the Reagan-Bush definition of\ trust\: Meese Deaver Nofziger Poindexter North Donovan Watt Gorsuch-Burford McFarlane etc .• etc., etc. In fact, the Reagan-Bush administration has seen over one hundred individuals come under investigation for unethical activities. Add to tllis the Iran-Contra affair and Reagan/B usll's proclivity for dealing with such morally upstanding individuals as Panama's General Noriega, and one gets a pretty good idea of the Reagan-Bush definition of \trust.\ Is this the kind of leadership we want for our nation? At a time when our leaders will face unprecedented challenges domestically and abroad, shouldn't we elect a president who will be honest with the American people? If a Bush-Quayle administration brings with it the promise of more \trustworthy\ individuals such as these, it would seem that it is Bush who is not to be trusted. Perhaps it would be wiser to place our trust in Michael Dukakis and Lloyd Bentsen! Sincerely, Phil Zaccheo '89 Seniors All Seniors that have not had their pictures taken may do so on November 10-11. Sign up with Mrs. Marra, 4th floor College Center. For all those wanting to re-take their pictures, there will be a sitting charge. Garnet The faculty committee appointed \to investigate 1he effectiveness of faculty involvement in governance\ at the College is soliciting test i m on y fro m t h ~ Co II e 9. e community. If you are Interested ~n sharing your thoughts on th.ls issue, you are encouraged to ~ot1fy any of the following Comn:11ttee members: John Boyer; Clifford Brown· Francis Federighi; Frank Gado; Jim Kenney (Chair}; Kimmo Rosenthal; and Ann Seemann. likely that they are guilty. I did not (and do not) know if the fraternities on U ;C. campus are sexist and/or racist; several incidents in the past told me that they might be and, so, I raised the issue. However, against the prevailing attitude among people who followed last spring's scuffle, I do not believe tht fraternities are inherently evil and am not hosti'le to their members. I am merely a critic fulfilling what I believe to be an important duty of questioning an institution's right to exist in the way it does. Acting in its role, the institution must then answer these criticisms; defend itself against invalid criticisms in order to improve itself. Critics might be seen to work against institutions but, in fact, they work with them. In effect, I expected fraternity members of U.C. to prove my accusations wrong, but I also expected them to admit that their organizations had problems and that they, the protectors and enthusiasts of the system, would be anxious to improve themselves. I expected to hear them counter against my accusations that their \Rush\ is racist or that they allowed or even encouraged conspiracies of infamy to arise around certain women. However, I also expected them to acknowledge the fact that this campus is Most importantly, though, I expected to hear they they repudiated the numerous occasions of gang rape that have occured in fraternities in the recent past. I do not have proof of these infractions but everyone knows that they have occurred and have gone unpunished. Unfortunately, what is done is done and it is not possible to correct tllose incidents; however, it is possible to take actions to prevent them from occurring in the future. The process begins with an act of good faith. The spokespersons of fraternities should openly repudiate the collusion of brothers who out of a sense of \brotherhood\ chose to overlook the criminal and morally repugnant behavior w~ was a+ Uruo~ ~\-k Unfortunately, the debate last spring degenerated (in part, due to my use of names in the flrst article I wrote) into a battle of wits which completely obscured what I stiU believe are important issues. I have yet to hear (but after talking to one president of a fraternity. ~ee~ certain I will) the fraternities reasoned response to the criticisms that I, as a critic, not an enemy have offered. I will end by just saying that were it not for critics, all institutions that are dedicated to the exchange of ideas (a democracy, for example, or a fraternity) would collapse under the wieght of their onw self- approving policies. You pat yourself on the back too hard or hike up your britches too often, you are likely to do yourself real injury. This is really the end, I promise. In the admonishment above, I was careful not to say \free\ exchange of ideas because to hear a critic ism of yourself or your organization usually costs you, sometimes dearly. However, improvement virtually means \extend.Jd existence: and whatever must be suffered in terms of humility will be more than compensated for in the continued existence of your cause. Of course, this goes for critics, too. Chidsey Dickson '88 JJ Vt1e'ign f?itW,r-e& back tar a LVII\ De workskop on RACE' RELATioNS I0/~7 7pm

00 00 ~ ...... r;; !\! ;;.. \\' ~ ~ ~ C'.::l ~. ~ i:J;l \\'' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ N .-< ~ :! PHY 013-01 Introduction to Physics IT- J, Neuman .. BUTJl204 PHY 013 - 02 Introdu,ction to Physics II - R. ~gahiz- BUTR 204 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 • 2:00·4:00 f.M. ARS 074 - Classical Art & Architecture- D. Robbins - ARTS 2i5 BIO 150 - Evolutionary Biology - J. Boyer - SSCI 016 CER 152 - Environmental Engineering I - P. Snow - BU1R 300 CHM 154 -Physical Chemistry ill - I>. Hayes - BUIR l04 CLS 024 -Classical Art & Architecture- D .. Robbins - ARTS 215 CSC 011- Programming For Soc. Sciences- J. Castleberry- STZH 106 ECO 012 - 03 IntrO<;lUction to Economics .. J. Kenney - SSCI 104 ECO 043 -Economic Gtowth & Development- B. Reynolds - SSCI 014 BGL 026- Tragedy - P. Heinegg .. HUMN 019 ESC 022 - Science Of Engmg Materials - F. Milillo - NWSE 222 ESC 033 - I;\Juid S:ystem:S Analysis - T. Jewell - BU1R 109 FRN 012 -Basic French ill,- R. MeHni- HUMN 110 GER 120 - Intermediate German I - S. Kellenter - HUMN 014 HST 121 - Amer. Constitntional & Lega1 Hist. - M. Jonas - ~SCI 112 :MER 030 - Dynamics of Linear Systems - M; Rivera - NWSE 210 PHL 020- ClassicalLogic- s. Kaminsky- HUMN 114 PHY 011 - 03 Introduction to Physics I - Khosoropour - NWSH 112 PHY 014 -ElementS of Modem Physics- A. Anderson- BAIL 100 PSG 011 - 02 Contemporary American Politics - L. Miller - HUJ\.1N 115 'PSC 012- 01 Contemp. International Politics- J. Board- SSCI 103 PSY 010- 03 A First Course in Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 PSY 038 - Developmental Psychology - L. Stanhope - PYCH 102 RUS 010 - 01 Basic Russian I - J. J etnakoff- HUMN 117 RUS 010 - 02 Basic Russian I - Hash • HUMN 112 SPN 012- Basic Spanish ill- R. Vinick- HUMN 116 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21 .. 8:30-10:30 A.M. IHO 066 ~ Sex And Sexuality • F. Lambert - SSCI 01:6 CER 165 -Systems Analysis and Design - T .. Jewell - BUTR 109 ECO 012 - 04 Introduction to Economics - B. Reynolds - SSCI 112 ECO 145- Managerial-Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 014 EGL 020- Major English Authors IT- B. Mciver- HUMN 115 ELL 012 - Homes, Bldgs., & Egr. Principles ~ H.G. Harlow ~ BU1R 204 ELL 033- Energy I- W. Aubrey- NWSE 116 · FRN 010 ~·02 Basic French I - J. Weinstein - HUMN 117 GER 010-02 Basic German I-S. Kellenter- HU1v.1N 116 HST 013 -History of U.S. To Civil War-P. Reed- SSC 103 MTH 018 - 02 Intro to Logic and Set Theory- J. Barbanel- BAIL 201 M11I 040 - Applied Linear Algebra- M. Frame - BAIL 207 MTH 132 ~Abstract Algebra I-S. Niefield- BAIL 100 PHL 012- Philosophical Problems- R. Baker- HUMN 019 PHL 140 - Knowledge And Scepticism - S. Kaminsky- HUMN 014 PHY 011 M 04 Introduction to Physics I ~ D. Peak ~ NWSE 112 PSY 015- Introduction To Experimental Psychol.- D. Morier- PYCH 213 RUS 130 ~ Irttro. To Russian Literature- N. Jemak:off- HUMN 119 · SOC 136 - Wealth and Poverty in America- S. Zehr- SSCI 110 SPN010- 02 Basic Spanish I- R. Vinick- HUMN' 112 JPN 010- Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 114 CHM 030-01 Organic Chemistry I~ L. Hull- BU't'R 204 CHM 030 - 02 Organic Chemistry I - W. Martin - BUTR W9 ECO 012 - 05 Introduction to Economics. H. Fried- SSCI 016 ECO 012- 06 Introduction to Economics- H. Fried- SSCI 016 EER 143- 01 Electromagnetic Engineering I- J. Mallick- NWSE 114 EER 143-02 Electromagnetic Engineering I- J. Mallick- NWSE 114 EGL 072 - Literature of the New Nation - B. MacDonald ~ HUMN 112 ESC 018-01 Intro To Digital Computers- J. Gajjar- BAIL 207 ESC 018- 02 Intra To Digital Computers- C. Traver- BtJTR 106 HEB 010- Basic Hebrew I- D. Heckelman- HUMN 116 JPN 120- Intermediate Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 116 ! . VJ-' '--\LL\'· .[::,\! EE!R 033 - 02 Elect. Circ. Analysis & Design - E. Hassib - NWSE 116 ESC 041 - 01 Electric Circuits- C. Traver- BAIL 201 HSC 041 - 02 Electric Circ1,1its ~ Y. Chang'- BAll.. 205 HST 036 - History of Europe II - M. Walker - SSCI 110 :qH:L 042 - Ethics - R. Baker - HUMN 114 · PSC 068- Electoral Politics- T. Holbrook- SSCI 103 PSY 010- 05 A·First Course in Psychology- G. Atlas- HUMN 115 PSY 048- Psychotherapy I· T. Dowling- PYCH 113 SPN 138 - Intro to Spanish Short Story - P. Moyano - ~ 110 TUESnAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. . ACC 010 - Financial Accounting I - N. Garrod - BAIL 207 · ARS 045 -Music Cultures of the World~ T. Ross - ARTS 215 BIO 036 - Invertebrate Zoology - B. Boyer- NWSE 116 CLS 042- Special Topics jn Classics- J. Marincola- HUMN 116 · ECO 138 - Quantitative Methods in Econ. - E. Motahar - SSCI 012 ECO 147- Economics of Urban Problems- LF. Burgess- SSCI 110 EGL 040 - Literature of the Bible - H. Freund - BUMN 115· FRN 131 -Intro to French Literature- W. Thomas- HUMN 110 FRN 143-- Writers Of Romanticism -C. Laparra- IWMN 114 GEO 041- Structural Geology- P. Ryberg- BUTR 201 GER.131 -Goethe's Faust- A. Warde- HUMN 213 HST 016- Antebellum America- f. Dudden- SSCI 112 HST 060 -History of Mexico- T. Meade- SSCI 104 ~ PHL 134 - Analytic Philosophy - J. Ludwig - HUMN 112 ~SY 046 ~ Introduction to Psychobiology - C. Weisse - PYCH 102 PSY 123 ~ Psychology of Advertising - K. DeBono PYCH 113 SOC 010 - 03 Introduction to Sociology -D. Loseke .. HUMN 019 SOC 141- Crime & Justice In Society- M. Huggins- SSCI 103 SPN 141 -Voices of Hispanic Women- P. Moyano- IlUMN 117 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSE WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 4:30-6~30 P.M. CSC 136 - Advanced Programming Techniques - G. Williams - BUTR 204 EER 030- 01 System Theory I., V. Fatic- BUTR 109 . EER 030-02 System Theory I-V. Fatic- BUTR 109 MTH 010-01 Calculus I- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 204 MTH 010 - 02 Calculus I - A. Prindle - BAil 207 MTH 010-03 Calculus I- A. Prindle- BAIL 207 MTH 010 - 04 Calculus I - K. Zimmermann - SSCI 104 MTH 010 ~ 05 Calculus I- K. Zimmermann- SSCI 104 MTH 010- 06 Calculus I - S. Perera- BAIL 2Q5 MTH 010- 07 Calculus I - W. Fairchild - BAIL 203 MTH 013 - 01 AP Calculus - T. Bick- BAIL 100 MTH 013 - 02 AP Calculus - J. Barbanel - BAIL 104 MTH 013-03 AP Calculus- S. Niefieid- BAIL 106 MTH 013-04 AP Calculus -J. Hefferon- SSCI 103 MTH 013-05 AP Calculus- A. Taylor- BUTR 300 MTH 013- 06 AP Calculus- J. Hefferon- SSCI 103 MTH 013-08 AP Calculus- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 MTH 014- 01 Calculus III- E. Gillette- BUTR 106 MTH014- 02 Calculus III- W. Stone- BAIL 201 MTH 030- 01 Ordin. Differential Equations- W. Stone- BAIL 201 MTH 030 - 02 Ordin. Differential Equations -A. Seiken - STZH 106 MTII 030 - 03 Ordin. Differential Equations ~ J. Muckenfuss - BUIR 204 \ -, \

!\\\ . .,...; ~ ~ gg \\ \\\; ~~. ~ ~ q:j ~ C.> t::l ~· ~. ~- ~ \.;)· ~ c !;;..). ~ UNION COLLEGE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE Fall Term 1988-89 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, \day\ undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies, courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to :Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar not later than November 1st, 1988. Examinations wUI be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS- Arts Buildin . .... g BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR - Butterfield Hall HUMN - Hmnanities Building NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center PYCH - Psychology Building SSCI- Social Science Building STZH - Steinmetz Hall FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. ARS 010- Introduction to the Arts- D, Robbins/H.A. Wilson- ARTS 215 BIO 016- Introduction to Biology I- P. Tobiessen- .SSCI 016 BIQ 180- Biochemistry- H. BiFecks- HUMN 014 CER 143 -Foundations & Construction- G. Gifford- BUTR 300 CLS 021 - History of Greece- M. Toher- HU:MN 019 CSC 037- Structured Programming- D. Hannay- STZH 106 ECO 012.- 02 Introduction to Economics- D . .Klein:.. SSCI 103 EGL 018 - 02 Introduction to Literary Forms - W. Hathaway - HUMN 114 EGL 042 - Humanities: The Origins.- P. Heinegg .: HUMN 115 ESC 026 - 02 Thermodynamics - W. Aubrey- NWSE 116 ESC 030-02 Mechanics ofPefo:rmable SOlids- D. Bunk- NWSE 222 ESC 042 - Signals & Systems - L. Hollander - BlYfR .104 GEO 010- Physical Geology- K. Hdllocher- BU1R 109 GER 012 - Basic Gertrum ill - L Hamm-Ehsani ... HUMN 110 :W:ST 050- Western Impetialism ~E. Hansen- SSCI 104 liST ll7- Amer. Econ. Sinc.e The New Deal- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 110 LAT 010- Principles.of Latin I- J. Marincola • HUMN 116 MER 141 - 02 Engineering :pesign·II- H. Lyo~s- NWSE 210 . MTH018 -' 01 Iniro.'to Logic and Set Theory- W. Fairchild- BAIL 205 PHL 015 .. Philo & Existential Literature- L. Patrik.- HUMN 117 PHY 011 - 02 Introduction to Physics I - K. Mead - NWSE 112 PHY 047 - Scientific & Tech Photography • C. Jones - STZH 108 PHY Bl '\RlectromAgMtis!m. I~ R:. Schick- NWSB 114 PSY 010- 02 A F\rrst Comse in Psychology- C. W. Huntley- PYCH 113 PSY 024 -.Social Psychology- D. Morier ~ PYCH 102 SOC 010-01 Introduction to Sociology- S. Zehr- SSC 014 SOC024- Social Psychology- D. Morier- PYCH.102 ECO 032 - 01 Labor & Industrial Relations - P~ Prosper - SSCI 112 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 - 11:15-1:15 P.M. ECO 031,. 01 Microeconomic Analysis~ L. McCarthy- SSCI 103 ECO 031 - 02 Microeconornic An&lysis -, L. McCarthy - SSCI 103 ECO 042 - 01 Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - T, McCarty - SSCI 016 ECO 04.2 - ·02 Ma~roeconomic Theory & Policy - T. McCarty - SSCI D 16 ESC 015 ... 01 Numerical-Methods And Fortran- L. Almstead- BAIL 207 l?HY 013-01 Introduction to Physics ll- J, Neuman .. BUIR 204 PHY 013 - 02 Irttrod~ction to Physics II - R. ~gahiz - BtJTR 204 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 • 2:00·4:00 P.l\'1. ARS 074 - Classical Art & Architecture - D: Robbins - ARTS 2i5 .BIO 150- Evolutionary Biology- J. Boyer- SSCI 016 CER 152 - Environmental Engineering I - P. Snow - BU1R 300 CHM 154- Phvsic::UChemistrv ill- .It Have~- HTJTR 104 \' ,. / PHY 010- 01 Extended Intro To Physics-A-S. Maleki- NWSE 112 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. BIO 024- Genetics & Evolution- J. Boyer- SSCI 016 BIO 032- Compar;ative Vertebrate Anatomy- G. Butterstein- BAIL 201 BIO 147 - Immunology - T. Styles - SAJL 100 CHM 010- Fundamental Chemistry I- C. Scaife- BU'IR 204 CHM 142- Chemical Instrumentation- T. Werner- S'IZH 106 · CSC 012- Programming For Natrl Sciences- L. Almstead- S1ZH 108 ECO 034 - 01 Intro To Financial Analysis - B. Lewis - SSCI 014 EGL 023 - The American Short Story ~ F. Gado - HUMN·l15 ESC 026 - 01 Thermodynamics - J. Shanebrook - NWSE 222 ESC 030-01 Mechanics of Deformable Solids- P. Weiss- BUTR 300 · FRN 010- 01 Basic French I- R. Merini- HUMN 114 FRN 120 - Intermediate French I - C. Laparra - HUMN 112 GER 010-01 Basic German 1- K. Hamm-Ehsani- HUMN 1117 GRK 010 - Principles of Greek I - C. Sorum - HUMN 116 GRK 130- Homer. The Odyssey - M. Tober- HUMN 113 HST 035 - History of Europe I. - E. Hansen - SSCI 103 HST 065 - East_Asian Civilization - D. Thurston - SSCI 112 MER 141-01 Engineering Design ll- M. Rivera- NWSE 210 MTH 146- Advanced Calculus I- W. Zwicker- BAIL207 PHY 011-01 Introduction To Physics I- G. Reich· NWSE 112 PHY 050 - Electronic Circuits - L. Baksay - NWSE 303 PSC 011 - 01 Contemporary American Politics~ J. Garber- SSCI 104 PSY 010 -· 01 A First Course in Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 102 PSY 020 - Statistical Methods In Psychol. - S. Greenberg- PYCH 113 SPN 010 - 01 Basic Spanish. I. - M. Ruiz - HUMN 110 ECO 032- 02 Labor & Ind111strial Relations- P. Prosper- SSCI 012 'fUESDA Y, NOVEMBER 22 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. ANT 010- Intro to Cqltura] Anthropology- T. Gordon- SSCI 103 BIO 051 -Ecology -C. George- BAIL 205] ECO 020 - 02 Int:to To Statistical Anayysis - L. Cavalluzzo - SSCI 012 ECO 144- International Economics- D. Phaup- SSCI 112 EGL 019 -.Major English Authors I- H. Freund- HUMN 116 EGL 022 - Major American Authors - B. Wineapple - HUMN 115 EGL 076 - Modern American Novel- F. Gado - HUMN 114 ESC 013 - High Level Lang. Programming - N. Mazur - BAIL 207 HST 028 - Afro-American History I. .. P. Reed- NWSE 116 LAT 130 - Catullus and Horace - C. Sorum - HUMN 119 MTH 100 • Orthogonal Fum:tions - T. Bick- BAIL 100 PHL 030 - Greek Philosophy - L. Patrik ~ HUMN 110 . PSY 010- A First Course in Psychology- S. Benack- PYCH 113 PSY 030 Personality- D. Spring- PYCH 213 PSY 031- 01 Abnormal Psychoiogy- G. Atlas- PYCH 102 SOC 010-02 Introduction to Sociology- M. Huggins- SSC 104 SOC 022 - Soc. Problems & Soc. Policy - D. Loseke - HUMN 112 · STA 110- Intro. to Statistical Methods I- D. Holmes- BAIL 203 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 1:15-1:15 P~M. ANT 043 -Anthropology of Religion- T. Gordofi- SSCI 112 ECO 012 -.0'1 Introduction to Economics- T. Kershner- SSCI 104 EER 033 - (H Elect. Circ. Analysis & Design - E. Hassib - NWSE 116 E.ER 033 - 02 Elect. C:irc. An~ysis & De~ign - E. Hassib - NWSE 116 ESC 041 - 01 Electric Circuits- C. Traver- BAIL 201 TISC 041 -02 Electric Circuits~ Y. Chang'- BAIL 205 HST 036 - H:istoty of Europe II~ M. Walker- SSCI 110 rfHJ-- 042 - Ethics - R. Baker - HUMN 114 . PSC 068 - Electoral Politics - T. Holbrook - SSCI 103 PSY 010- O\i A ·l<'tr<:!t C'nn-r<:!\' 1n Pcout\'hnln ...... - r! Ai-1nn mn.n..T 11&: ..

Page 14 . CONCORDJE!_VSJS October . ~0:~ 19;88 THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER STUDY[N OXFORD, ENGLAND Academic Program SeveraJ.colleges of0xford·Univel'$ity ~ve invited 1heWa.shingtonlntem•liollru Studies<;:enter (WISC) to recommend quclified students to study f'cr o~e year or for on~ or two te~. Lower Junior status is required,. and graduate study is available. Srudcnts arc directly enrolled in their colleges and reaive transcripis from·their Oxford college; this is NOT a.progtam conducted by a U.S. college in Oxford. Oxford colleges are accredited I:!Y ·the U.S. Deptof Education to accept students with Guaranteed Student Loans. Multi·naiional student housing and social . activities are offered, and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special sumlller session is du:ected by WISC. 1NTERN1N WASHINGTON, D.C. P~profession£U Progran1 The Washington International Studies Center offers summer internships with Congress, with the White House, with the media and· with think tanks. Government and Journalism courses are tau~t by senior-level government officials, wbQ are also scholars, and by experienced joiunalists. All college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible. For further information, please write or call: WRSC The Washing'ton International Studies Center . 214 Mass~cbusetts Ave .. N.E. Suite 230 Washington. b.c: 20002 (202): 547·3275 EO I 'A.A $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CHRISTMAS CHRISTMAS MONEY VACATION UNITED PARCEL SERVICE 'EMPLOYMENT Full Time- Part Time Monday thru Friday ·till Christmas All Shifts Available · HELP WITH CRtSTMAS BILLS WHILE BEING PAID TO WORK OUT Apply in person: Each Monday between 10am-8 pm UPS Personnel Office 24 Avis Dr. Latham, NV 12110 (1st left off Wade Rd.- off Rt. 7) E.O.E. MJF . $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ WANTED: Concert Security Ushers The conce.rt committee needs stu·dent · security ushers to wor·k for ·u.pcom:ing· concerts.: · Few responsibilities, but m:ust be responsi:ble. · Shirts provided, but must provide own- . flashlight C~ny size). If interested/haye questions, contact B.UI (372.·5120) or la·n (346-0476). Monsnp below to Box 275. Cl .. S· · .• ,. & s· · ·d• · ---~--~~---------- 1p, nt en ··-----------------· SURE, :I'D LOVE TO BE AN; USHE~RI Name ...--------~~~· .. ,_.,.,__~- Box Phone_·--------~------~------- Empfoym~nt OppQrtunitie$ 'Ski Instructors- Lift Attendandts Snow Makers - Food Service J3ar- Rental Shop- Retail Ticket Sellers -· Race Department Part Time/Full Time Days/Nights/ Afternoons. Benefits include reduced rate skiing, meal deals and ski shop discounts. Apply in person at the Base Lodge · o·f the ski area on . . · THURSDAY, October 27 at 7:3() prn: 1-87 exit l8,left on Corinth Rd., 3 mile~ toW. est Mountair:t Rd., turn right; West Mountain is 1/4 mile up on the left.. Say the word Alcohol and most people. think, beer, parties, and more b'eer. However wine and other types of alcohol are often used to enhance the flavor of food. · The Rathskellar invites you to stop by today, Thursday, October 20, between 2 & 4 pm and sample foods prepared with alcohoL Wine Marinated Chicken Wings. ,, Jello with Vodka Mo-ussy and Warteck Non-alcoholic Beers. OCT. 20 2-4 PM AT RATHSKELLA;R I i- - I i I i

I l . I i CQNCORDIENSIS October 20, 1988 Page 15 . - - - . SCIENC.E & TECHNOLOGY Why Is Everyone Talking ·About· Cholesterol ? llY A.MY BAB'OFF Why . is everyone talking about cholesterol? What is· it? Why shoald it concern a -colle:ge s:tlldent? Cliolest.erol is a crystalline fatty a1coltol believed to be a factor in arteriosclerosis, a slow developing .process in which the lining of arteries becomes coated witb fatty substances. A· diet rich in . saturated fat and cholesterol is a major risk f-actor -of coronary heart disease. Narrowing of the arteries due to fatty deposits leads to a loss of vessel ef:asticity which in··iurn 111i:tY · lead to. increased blood pressure. A high blood pressure re.adin:g increases the probability of developing arteriosclerotic symptoms. Stress can speed up the process, especially when . accompanied by an unhealthy high-c1I<>leste'rol diet. therefore, the college student ' vopulation is very susceptible. Often, a student may be under stress du.e to academic, athletic, or social reasons. and may have erratic, rrnhealthy junk food binges. Thus, if \Ye are AWARE. of . stress ·and· cholestef()l-in our diets, we could. be reducing our risk of cardiovascular diseases. But, 'you qon't bave to cut ou~ all of those. foods you love - the pasta, the bagels and cream cheese, the .popcorn and cookies. You don't have to make sacrifices ·to lower your cholesterol l~vel. The fact is~ that many of our f~vorite foods are already part of a low- cholesterol diet. Cholester<Jl control may be like a two-w.ay street. Then~ are two ~ypes- <Jf cholesterols. One type is .a high -density lipoprotein (HDL). It is composed cf primarily protein and very little fat. A high level . of HDL enhances cardiac health. Foods that keep eholesterol levels · down include: fruits, oat bra11, beans, garlic, polyunsaturated oils, fish and avocados. The se.cond type is a low-density lipoprotein (LDT), composed of mostly fat and. little protein. Foods. that ~ring. cholesterol into the body include those ·from animal. origin - meat, poultry, eggs, seafood, dairy products and those containing saturated fats found in common baked goods and in oils. This · is called \bad\ cholestet()l. HDL works to minimize the · harmful effects of LDL by causing the body , to excrete LDL. It has been reported tltat most Americans have four ·times as much LDL as HDL t . ·:.. . . . - •- ~ ' ....... HUDSON MOHAWK 'FRACTALS AND CHAOS SEMINAR '\Fractals and Real Pl:an,ets\ David Peak Physics Department Union Colleg~ Wednesday,- October 26 7:00 P.M 203 Bailey Hall Union College (F()r1hose new to our campus, Bailey Hall is the ivy covered building across from Steinmetz Hall.) The Biology Department and Biology Club · present ·· Dr. V.R. Villanue.va, Research Director Institute of Chemistry of Natural Products National Cen1er . ol Sciemtific Research Gif-SurNvette, France \ \Bitchemical & Physiological Effects of Air Pollution In Forest Trees\ Wednesday, October 26 4:40 PM 207 Bailey Hall Refreshments 4:30 let*~ . . . ~ • • ~ CUME w_nrcH THE FRC,UlTY fft1 l~l MATCH WITS WITH · (Cg\iEGEj THE CHAMPIO~S! . ~lf'f The Chemistry Dept Faculty (led by Prof. Werner) Vs .. Last Year's Student Champions \11:\e Vanguards\ (led by R.AI·Amin Khan). Thursday, October 20th Dutch H.oiJow Restaurant 7:30-:-8:00 pm which supports the fact that the number one caus.e of death in the U.S. is heart disease. Cholesterol is necessary for the nonnal chemical processing of the body. It is produced mainly in the liver and used in cell wall constructien and serves as an insulator between ceUs. However, the blood cholesterol level is . the key indicator .or cardiac risk potential, A b1ood test is taken to cdetermine one's cholesterol level - the amount of milligrams of cholesterol in one deciliter of blood. Currently, a reading of 250 is the acceptable U.S. mean score. According to the National Institute of Health, for our age group 20-29, less than 200 is recommended, 200- 220 is a moderate risk, and more than 220 is a high risk:. Considering that the average daily cholesterol consumption is approxiamtely 600mg, the next time you are stressing out, do some aerobic exercise to enhance your HDL level or, if you want to eat,. grab so·me fruit, get some unbuttered popcorn, or order a pizza with extra garlic. Be AWARE of yeur eating habits now to prevent high cholesterol levels and thus, an increased chance of heart disease in your future. .. ~ \It was bound to happen.- they're beginnin~ to think like binary computers.\ PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM ''A TALE OF TWO CHAOTIC OSCILLATO.RS\ Professor Steven Luzader Department of Phys-ics State University of New York, Brockport ' Friday, October 21,1988 Steinmetz Haii,Room 106 Refreshments Will Be Served At 3:30 All Are Welcome ADIRONDACK RESEARCH CENTER ANNOUNCES PROGRAMS Schedule? programs of the Adirondack Research Center include a presen~at1on. on Wednesday, November 30 by Michael White, Execut1ve D1rector of the Lake George Park Commission. Additional programs may also be scheduled. For further information, please call the Adirondack Research Center, 382-7890. , The Adirondack Research Center (ARC} is an educational, collections and research fa_ciHty open to the public, housing books and rare archives that span the h1story of the Adirondack Park and Forest Preserve. ARC was founded in Schenectady in 1980. It recently became part of The Ass~ciation for the Protection of the Adirondacks, an organization ded1cated to the protection of the Adirondack Park and the New York State Forest Preserve. • COMING ATTRACTION • LOOK FOR_ THE NEW BUSINESS PAGE COMING TO THE CONCORDIENSIS IN THE- NEXT-FEW WEEKS. ANYONE· INTERESTED IN WRITING ABOUT CURRENT BUSINESS EVENTS- LET US KNOW. ANTHONY E. VRODISSIS PETROS D. GONEOS TEL. 386-4217 .·

Page 16 CONCO!lfJIENSIS October 2·0. 1988 ... . .. SOAP OF THE WEEK:: ONE LIFE . TO LIVE Ferret Face Falls Flat By: AN EMBARASSED MALE SOAP WATCHER QUOTE OF THE WEEK: \Individualism is what made this country great\. Michael Grant's words of wisdom. Definitely the theme of Tuesday's One Life to Live. MOST RIDICULOUS PlOT: Mel.inda and tler ~ laughable WVLE C·rime Watch Halloween Burglar Set. ~ She's one community activist that dares to make a ~ difference. in Landview. What she needs is a gttest ~. appearance by Morton Downey Jr. LU(/J: .. c;, '\.\ti~o; MOST PATHETIC FAMILY CRISIS: Becky Lee is back in Landview and reunited with her post-pubescent ·~ · son Qrew. But not for long .... Becky wants to go on tour ~ as a vocalist and leave Drew behind. Becky, please leave, l:i: · ::l but watch out for those raging back stage sex/drug 8 parties. o TRIVIA QUESTION OF THE WEEK: (Choose one). ~ Q: ls Clint's new hairstyle: G. • A: a) An attempt to look younger/hotter? b) An attempt to look like a GO business guy? c) Is he having an artif:icial hair·loss replacement? d) None of the above; he's just a conceited pretty boy. MOST PERTINENT QUESTIONS: 1. Will Steve screw his brother M;;lx over for a chance at power and wealth? Do it Steve! 2. Will Becky follow the paths of other rock legends like Morrison, Hendrix and joplin, and die from an overdose? 3. Will Gabriella leap into the world of bimbo-hood and fall prey to Michael Grant's adulterous yearnings? 4. Who cares about Vicki's long lost daughter? But will her daughter be the long awaited ltnk between Landview's • • One Life to Live _and close by Pine Valley's All My Children? 5. Finally, was Asa \just fooling'; with the Skeltor m·ask . when he scored Rene? Or is he really the Halloween Burglar/Axe Wielding maniac we 'know he's capable Of, _ being? · ' · ' Find out on One Life to Live, 2:00 weekdays on ABC. By KATIE BOYD , Arts Editor Larry Lin,ville gave a great lecture, but what a disappointing comedic routine · it was. M* A *S'*H. junkies from Union and the Capital area were in fuJi force at Union's Memorial Chapel to hear Frank \Ferret Face\ Burns speak. At first, the audience was enchanted by Frank;s thin, complacent laugh, .and childish, hypersensitive comebacks ''1 don~t look the same? That w~as ·. fifteen years ago l-betyou aon•f. look the same either.\ Expectations of an. evening s.pent with the victim of Hawkeye, Trapper, and BJ}$ jokes seemed justified. However, the man behind the cloud soos appeared and everyone's favorite pathetic character dissapeared much too soon. Larry LinvHle spoke about h-is' life, accomplishments, defeats, and chances. He emphasized the force of choice and chance, and he encouraged,·as the'moral-of· the story; ·people· to· take adyantag_e 'of whatever comes the'ir way .-:,Which is all fme and gooo and moderately interesting-· if the audience had originally . and kn9wingly, committed _ themselves to a lecture. But the atmosphere of the chapel seemed to :suggest that the audience had expected more and wanted less. They expected Frank to be on stage, and they wanted merely to be .· entertained. TMy wanted M*A*S*H gossip (\did Hot Lips really have hot lips\ \how did he get the name ferret face\ \was th.ere such improvisation\ were aU ·questions ~ked during perhaps the most interesting segment of the presentation, as the audience could direct Liniville to· speak on what they felt. most interesting). Sure it was. nice to hear how Linville got' where he did, but did he have to · spend an hou·r on his precocious childhood? Frank did appear from time to time, escaping from the dramatist Linville in either a whiney laugi'J, or that famous accn:satory look. · However,:• · these were rare occasions· in m otherwi~e serious and :slightly· . self congratulatory lecture. The·· uncut· M~A*S.*H episode · Linville,,sbow,ed.was a,teU,ef,:.as,. Frank :fue •iwinlp,.:geek;,· nerd\:- had center st3.g~ M~ Linville ,. the decent, hard working, : educated man was left behirid -~ thesc~es. ··• Reviv~al .o·n . . . Br.oadway HomeCohllhg•· Concert '· .. -~ By LISA CHERA:NDE Certain plays \make it\ qn Broadway, but these plays are, far and scarce. Most plays end up closing early with the producer in debt for the endeavor. The fate of, Broadway in the 1980's has been unfortunate, with the most successful plays originating in London or abroad. Sky-rocldng ticket prices, mediocre plays, and the advent of movies and videos has changed the face of Broadway. But this past yeal', it appears that Broadway has undergone a revival with the production of two of London's hits - Les Miserables and The Phantom . of the Opera. Both shows are impressive, and both are complete with special effects and talented casts. Les Miserables is a long, but ·action-packed musical that depicts the story of a man returning to his town after a jail sentence, and his attempt to rebuild his life and . By MEG PARSONS ti),at o,f an (W;p~anecl .. girl dpring • · lhe French Revoh.i'tion. 'It is a : : comp1ex plot which i encompasses romance and ·: humor in the· .backdrop _of 1 France's class struggle. The : ·:. Tpis Saturday night wasn't just any night in Memorial Chapel when the Union College Choir, The Garnet Minstrelles, and the Dutch Pipers gave j:heir Homecoming _ concert. Under the direction of Professor Hugh Allen Wilson the choir performed several works including a medley of songs from West Side Story, in celebration of composer Leonard Bernstien's seventieth birthday. Phantom of the Opera, in · contrast, is a timeless romance · . in which a young opera singer - is adored by a lonely, evil . phantom who runs the opera house. It is a touching and beautiful story, and the · phantom receives much sympathy. Both are well- performed by their American actors, and have done phenomonally in the box offices. Unfortunately, the ticket prices reflect this success. As an example, someone paid $250 a ticket from a scalper just to see The Phantom · of tbe Opera this past summer. Judging from the popularity of both- ptays 1 both will . remaip on Broadway for quite a while. Do go and experience at least one of these exciting shows when tickets become available. The other works performed by the choir included: Music Spread thy Voice Around from Handel's Solomon with an impressive solo by sophmore Tracy Mischa, two works by Ra1ph Vaugn Williams with a bass solo by senior March Howard, an~ \fhe Road Not Taken, a musical version of the poem by Frost. The most enjoyable part of the choir's HALLOWEEN VISIT 'I'O KINGSWAY ARMS NURSING HOME Stmday, October 30th 1-3 Meet in Costume CC 1 p.m. Transporation provided Call 6087 for further information repetoire came in two parts; l-adies performed :four songst freshman tenor David including Somewhere Over the.:• ' Martorano sang the difficult Rainbow and One Fine Day. solo To Sylvia, a Shakesperian w hie-h,. were light and sonnet set to music by Franz entertaining. :· Schubert. Next the choir · The Dut9h-Pipers eight man~ followed ·with an .amll'sing · accapella group, famo·us for·• version of this piece set by the their bathroom concert;s during .. , satirical composer P.D.Q. : exam time,sang.five.&ongs; au: Bach; the clever lyrics were · .. of which were performed,;. sung with great spirit which terrifically and very well. the choir obviously· enjoyed r;eceived. these guys offered ... almost as much as the audience original tunes for their did· program, ~ few. o1d favourites ... All pieces sung by the choir were done so with an ob\l'ious ·. l~vel of professionalism. The ·· choir is fortunate enough to be · blessed with a strong tenor . ·section and for the most part gave an enjoyable performance. One criticsm could be made for a few missed entrances causing rushing through the following section, but overall the works were well performed. Joining the choir was the eight woman accapella group, the Garnet Minstrelles. The and a few new ones. The solos featured each of the petfoiillers ~· including:· senior·. Andy;;- Livemois and sophmore Dave · Kohl, and it is obvious that the voice. of senior soloist Marc Howard will be greatly missed, by b0th the Union choir and the Dutch Pipers in the future. The finale of the evening was a medley of old Union fight songs ending with the alma mater. All alumni in the audience were invited to join . the choir in their spirited . renditiori of Fitzhugh Ludlow's masterpiece. MOUNTEBAN,KS PRESENTS ... QfJ)£$.'{02{f£5 6y Jllice (jersten6urg Dinner Theatre at the Upperclass Dining Hall in the College Center .. Free with meal card punch (those not on meal plan can pay cash) Friday, October 21st and Saturday, Octo·ber. 22nd ,·

.. CONCORDJENSIS October 20, .1988 Page 17 ~~~~---:_A_R_T_S_& __ E_N_T_E~R_T~A_I~N~M~E~N~T~·~~~~~~'J: ? ? ? ?p· u· · fi. ···C. h• .}· l··n. -e· ? ? ?. ? .,_H-OR-. O_S_C_O_P~ti-S -B-Y-,A-,-. • • • • • •••• • •••• By CAMERON KENNY Assoc. Arts Editor \Punchline'~ is a mediocre film stan:ing Tom Hanks aned S-ally Fields. Hanks plays an ex- medical student trying to make it big in the world of comedy; while Fields is aNew Jersey housewife moonlighting as• a stand,-up comic. nle film . comes up short in almost aU respects: the amateur cGmedians are not particularly funny, Fields as usual is. · mildly irritating, and tl,le plot . is .scattered and ultimately inconclusive. · The first major problem with \Punchline\ is that it largely concentrates on .Fields' character instead of the much more interesting Hanks. Aside from leading her ~ry uninteresting domestic li:fe, Fields' character (appropriately named Lila somethil\g) apparently -and ~ unconvincingly- burns to make other . people laugh. Her husband and children are neglected as she races from · home to the \Gas Station.\ at night,. where she performs with • • • •. • • • • • n. • Crossgates Ma I • • Cinema • cliG - PG • 1 :45; 4:20; 7:10; 9:45;12:00 • • • • RUNNING ON EMPTY - PG 13 • 1:05;4:05; 7:25; 10:15: 12:30 • • • e GORILLASJN THE MIST- PG 13e • 12:2s; a:ao; sso; g:ss;12:25 • e TH~ ACCUSED - R. : e· - • 1:35; 4:30; 7:15; 1.0:10; 12:30 • e PUNCHLINE-R e • 1-2:45; 3:45; 6:40; 9·:40; 12:10 • e' BAT21-R e • 2:00; 4:40; 7:30; 10:30; 12:35 • e ALIEN NATION- R e • 2:15; 4:45; 7:55; 10:20; 12:20 • • • CROSSING DELANCEY- PG •. 1 :25; 3:55; 6:35; 9:10; 11:20 • • • e A FISH CALLED WANDA- R e 12:50; 3:40; 6:30; 9:20; 11 :45 • • e HALLOWEEN 4- R e 11:50; 1:15; 7:00; 9:30; 11:40 • • • Dlt: HARD-A e • 12:15; 3:15; 6:15; 9:15; 11:50 • e DEAD RINGER- R . e • 12:20; 3:20; 6:10; 9:00; 11:25 • e ALL SHOWSAFFER 11 ONLY e • PLAY ON FRI. & SAT. e • • • • • • • • • Hanks and other aspiring comedians. Most of these ·suburban .scenes are acceptable, but not particularlr amusing. Hanks.' character, Steven Gold, has · some interestin-g . quirks which catch the viewer's wandering attention, y.et they are left largely unresolved at the film's conclusion. His character at fttstappears almost ruthlessly self-centered, yet midway through the film we disc()ver that 'h.e may actual.ly be just hyper~sensitive and misunderstood. Regardless however, more exploration or his charactet. would h.ave · substantially imp{oved the quality of the film. Most of \Punch-line'' is in · most respects a bad ve~ion of ''A Choms Line\ (The musical, .not the film). It attempts. '>to show how the young comedians must handie the pressure of competition, and tb:ere are inevitably winners and losers. The difference iS that in \A Chorus Line\ we are . actually entertained by the auditioners, and believe that they all have some talent. Also, when the plot varies from the general cast, jt picks the more interesting charactaers to spend · greater time on. In \Punchline'.' many of the comedians simply aren't that talented, and when the plot leaves tbe nightclub, it goes to N:ew Jersey with Sally. Which is, needless to sar, unfortunate. ''Punchline\ can't seem to decide whether it wants to be a comedy or a drama, and as a result it is an uninteresting version of neither. Had it been advertised as a drama, it probably would have been a much more engaging filtn. A ftim with two big stars about stand-11p comics seems very hard to mess up, yet that is precisely what was done: it is probably as least cohesive and entertaining as Was possible. · Hanks and some of the other comedians, with little help from the screenwriter, keep the movie afloat, but on the whole \Punchline\ is a movie with a Jot of potential and not many . laughs: as Fields. says to a seedy joke seller at the beginning of the film, \Where's the Punchline?\ -A & E Briefs • * - .. ' : ' 'F - w ... . Cohoes Music Hall, Coh{)eS - 235-7969. ' Opening Friday, 8:00. \'Tbe Wonder Years'': A Comedy which tells the story of the \baby boomers\. Call for tickets and prices. The Egg, Albany - 443-5 Ill. Saturday, 8:00. \GL INNAMORATI\: An Italian comedy: $9.00 for Srudents. Albany Public Library, Albany - 449-3380. . Tues. 2:00 1 &:00. Hitchcock Film Festival: \The Thirty- nine Steps\. Admission is Free. Proctor's, Scheqectady - 346-6204. Fri. 8:00. Odori - Festival of Japan. Sun. 8:00. \The Phantom Strikes Again ••• and Again\. ' Call for tickets and prices. Union College, College Center Auditorium . Fri. Sat. Sun. 7,9,1L \Stand and Deliver\. Wed. 7,9J 1. \Tootsie\. If You See . (3()13 (3.4.~,_.-=~ WITH: MAGIC COMEDY MENTALISM AUDIENCE PAR'TICIPATION This Could Be YOU · Friday ,Oct. 21 8pm CC Auditorium Sponsored by Social Alternative Committee LIBRA: This is a week for· great achievement. Libras tend to · be of a powerful and authoritative nature. Concentrate this .asset in the right areas and watch your success zoom. SCORPIO: ~exy and self-destructive are common · characteristics of Scorpios. This week be careful that the sclf- destructiye side does not take over. Concentrate on academic matters this week rather than romance, for you may hurt someone dear to you. ' SAGTfTARIUS: Your open, honest nature may be . intimidating to some this week. Aft~r a long week of ' · indulgent partying and little productivity, it's time to seule down in the library. CAPRICORN: The coming weekend will not be of high energy, rather of great contemplation. It is the perfect time to set future goals for yourself with a realistic frame of mind. . AQUARIUS: This week is the perfect opportunity to channel out and meet new people. Take advantage of group study projects, athletic events, etc -- who knows what these new acquaintances may lead to. PISCES: A seemingly hopeless situation may make a . surprising turnaround this week. Although it may be difficult to face it day by day, that is the only way it'll work itself out. · You may fmd ·yourself f~ling restricted by the small campus this week. ARIES: This is the week to make your needs known to a loved one. You may be trying too hard to be everything to everyone -- relax! It's time now to be self-indulgent. TAURUS: If there is someone holding you back in your life do not be afraid to break free this week. It may be difficult, but • it'll be truly beneficial. Consid~r visiting family for a relaxing weekend . G.EMINI: Romance is at its height this week if you play your cards right, yet not if combined with alcohol. Avoid the · crowded party scene and spend an informal evening with a special someone at a cozy restaurant or taking a walk in Jackson's garden . CANCER: Your sexuality is at its monthly peak this week. Avoid burdening yourself with the problems of others. Now is the time to go wild, for rougher times may be ahead. LEO: Leos may find a brand new romantic interest this week . the perfect .remedy for getting· out of an emotional and social rot. Do not create unrealistic expectations, and you could have · a lot of fun. VIRGO: Although your popularity is at its peak this week, don •t Jet your ego be yo_gr downfall. Appreciate others for their inner beauty, and allow them to experience yours. Let your romantic side run free! · ,. The WRUC Top 8.97 Quote of the week - \Give me another bong hit!...No! I didn't say that, I didn't say that!\ - Fast Ed Kovo? '89 - Listen his coming Tuesday night at 8 p.m. to hear the rest of the story and the New 8.97 at 9:30 p.m . No 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Artist U2 Primitives Soundtrack Oingo Boingo Wet,Wet,Wet Edie Bricknell &lheNew Bohemians Drivin' n Cryin' Screamg Tribesmen Album Label Rattle &Hum 'Island Lovely ~ Married to the Mob Alive 'IIICA \Wishing I w~ Lucky\ UNI Shooting Rubberbands at the Stars Geffen Scared But Smarter Island Bones & Flowers RYKOi 8.97 \.,. Camouflage Voices & Images Atlantic ..J

. Page_ 18 -: \ • of- CO!'fCORDIENSlS October UJ, 1988 The Apple Stude,nt Loan-to-Own Program Overview The Appl~ Student Loan-to-Own Program is a unique new plan that helps college students to purchase an Apple® Macintosh®- computer. It's a speciallow-inter- est.loan designed exclusively for the parents of undergraduate and graduate students who do not qualify for traditional sR.Ident assistance programs or who need to supplement federally sponsored aid. cards, personal credit lines, or home-equity loans, it lets your parents borrow on their own signature, with no collateral re- quired. There's no need to show financial hardship. And repa-y- ment is just as easy, because the Apple Student Loan-to-Own Program lets your parents spread their payments over as many as 10 years--which makes for ex'\ ceptionally affordable monthly payments. The loans are available for a minimum of $2,()0(} for each stu- dent. The interest rate is tied to the rate of the 91-da.y United States Treasury Bill (T-'bill}-and is typically mucll kJwer than the · rates ofother consumer loans. · · · The Apple Student Loa.n-to- Own Program makes the borrow- ing process easy. Unlike credit But even though this ftgure may_ fluctuate a little from month to month, monthly payments will remain constant for a year at a time, because th~y are estab- lished at the beginning of each · 12-month period, Features!lknefits !)- Low monthly payments ~> Offers a competitive interest rate, lower than that of most other consumer loans. :>- Allows the payments to be spread.out over as many as 10years. ~> Helps the borrower to plan ahead; because payments remain constant for a year at a time, \' Gives the option of.prepayingv.:ithout incurritlg penalties. • ........ -\- ............................................ ·-- ............ - ......................... - •••••••••••••••••••••••• •! •• it' ..... ,,, ... . !I' Simple eligibility requirements 1> Is not based on fmanciaf need. l• Makes it easy to apply. ·· ............... , ................................................................................................. , ..................... . . l> A special deferred-payment . \' Lets the borrower make interest-only payments while you are option enrolled in school. Eligii>Uity Applicants for the Apple Stu- dent Loan-to-Own Program must be U.S. citizens (or,per- manent residents) and the pare11ts, legal guardians,·or heads of household supporting the- student for whom the loan willbeused. (Self-supporting students may apply, but must meet ~n of the financial eligi- bility criteria.) You (the student) m\lSI be enrolled, or accepted for enrollment on a full-time basis, at an institution that grants either undergraduate orgrad- uate degrees. No coUateraHs required, but to receive th~ loan, ihe applicant must have good credit and employment records, and a current financial standing that indicates the loan won'tprovide too great a fio~11cialburden. I111etest rate Tbe interest rate is a variable mte tied to the \bond-equiv- alentrate\ ofthe 91-dayUS. Treasury Bill. and is typically lower than that ofmost con- sumerl~ns, Eachmonth, the rate on the loan is set b'y adding 35percentage points to the average T-bill rate in the pre- ceding month. For eX\lmple, if you had taken out.a loan.on July 1, 1988, your initial interest rate would have been 10.2 per· cent (11.1 APR), :Monthly pay- ments reti'l;lin constant for 12 · months at a tinle, and rhe an- nual percentage rate will be . provided in the Disclosure Statement. Rt:payment Clptions . The Apple Studellt Loan.to- ·Own Progmm offers two re- payment options: ,... The Standard Payment Plan: Repayment of1prindpal and in- terest beginS within 60 days qf loan disbursement ,... The Deferred-Payment Plan: Make interest..on\y p~~yments during the entlte time that you are enrolled i!i.S<:nool. Specifi- cally, mon1hly p.ayroents con· sist of eirher interest only or 530; whichever is the greater amount. OverpJ!id interest \\ill be deducted from the principal balance. Principal and remain- ing interest payments will begin within 30 days from the date of your graduation or when you leave school. Application procedure Apple Stu\dent Loan-to-Own Pro- gr.im applications are available at on-campus computer resale locations or by calling 800-831- LOAN . .Allow two to four weeks for processing. If the loan is approved, the check (less a 2 percent fee) will be mailed directly to -your parents' home. The Apple Student Loan-to- Own Program was developed inconjunction with First Amer- iCan Bank ofWashingtop, D.C. SEE THE COLLEGE BOOKSTORE OR THE OFFICE OF COMPUTER SERVICES FOR LOAN APPLICATIONS

CLVB NEWS Weekday morning prayer continues in die 4th floor CC lounge from 8:15.:.8:35. Bible ~·study meets from 11:30-12:45 in CC:205. Bag lunches provided for those on the meal plan. Others please bring your ·own. People are welcome to collie occasionally as their schedules pertnit. Volunteers are needed for the Oxfam fast. Sign .. up sheets are in the Religious Programs lobby (404CC). · A support group for tllose who have had a loved one die will meet for the first time in 404B CC Thursday, 10/27 at 3' p.m. Sunday worship is at 6 p.m. in the 4th floor lounge of the CC.ALl welcome. NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Merton Tapes - Fr~day, October 21st at noon all are invited to bring a brown bag lunch and listen· .to a Merton tape in CC404B. Over-Nigbt Retreat - 5 p.m. Friday, OctOber 2.1 to 5 p.m. Sattirday, October 22 at . 1630 Nott Street. Theme: The Many Paths to Prayer .. Donation of $5 when you register with Sr. Joan. Catholic Wor.ker House - Sunday, October 23rd any Union students who wish to visit a Catholic Worker House , in Syracuse - House of Hospitality for the· poor :.. contact Sr. Joan. We will leave from the CC at 9 a.m. arrive in time for noon Mass with their guests;. help serve lunch, • eat and assist with clean up. Transportation provided. Contact Sr. Joan 6087 or CC404B. Sunday Night Suppel.\ - will not meet this week .due to visit to Catholic Worker House. I Brown Bag Lunch & Bible Study • Tuesday, October 25th in CC204. Tutoring - Union Cellege studeats can be used in the following areas at St. John's school: Kindergarten Aides, Computer Math Aides, and Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson (386-4354) or Sheila Hennigan (386-4353). Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry .at the 7:30 p.ni. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. Visiting Shut-Ins - Any Union students who wish to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please cQntact Sr. Joan's sister, Gerri Borne 372-3381. Abortion Forum Theological stances of Jewish, Protestant and Roman Catholic Faiths on a very controversial issue. Friday, November 4th at 6 p.m. in the Kosher Kitchen. Those on a meal plan may use their meal card. Spaces are limited - please contact Sr. Joan to make a reservatian. You are also most welcome to come just for the Forum at 7 p.m. ~CONCORDIENSiS Octo.IJer 20, 1988 Page 19 CAMPUS NEWS !:!===:======::::::.1, Death Row Prisoner, ~CLASSIFIEDS Caucasian male, aged 42,. , JO,BS IN AUSTRALIA ·Immediate opening {or Men · · and Women. $11,000 to • $60,000. Constructi~Qn, • Manufacaturing, Secretarial : Work, Nurses,. Engineer.iag, ·. Sales. Hundreds of Jobs Lis1ed. Call Now! 206-736-7000, Ext. • 1078A. - ·CRUISE SHIPS Now Hiring Men and Women. · Summer. & Care·er Opportunites (Will Train). Excellent P~y. Plus World Travel. Hawaii, Baha~PJ~s, Caribbean, etc. Call Nowr .2()6- 736-7000, Ex:t.-1078C. . Part Time Employme:at 1. Handyman or person hWldy w/to6ls 2. Fill in desk clerk Apply at Schenectady Racquet Club, 2699 Curry Roa.d. Schenectady. . Lonely? Need a Date? Write Datetime, 134 W. nnd St., Suite 602, New York, NY 10001.. desires correspondence· with any college student. Wants to form friendly relationship and exchange experiences and ideas. Clarke~ Jackson's waiting for y()u just. inside the gates. .. If interested, write to Jim K, Jeffers, p.O.Box B-.38604 . KONICHIWA -Is P-E-T-E~R Florence, Arizona 85232. . THERE? PERSONALS Tracey,Kasia& Bobbi, I heard Mohawk Movers are seeking employees. You . should all apply as furniture m.overs! Ra. Cseh, Can you make ~t through this · · weekend? I know how often Jrs. toss their cookies; are you sure you're not the pledge?? Crazy · JustWondering. P. HeyKido, How about a movie - Maybe Rocky? This time I'll tell you the ending. Pete . North}Pbi Delta Theta c()~Rec . Soccer Team - Get ready for Monday night's game. Let's go 4-0, [tn.d be play-offbound. Your female captain. Ingrid, Crazy ;L.. I · You, too, will find your knight I'm glad yau are getting a good j irr shining armor. wotkout in Italy and are still ' Ei alive. Miss ya! ! Crazy... ----~~---- ·c, I W!lnt a cheeseburger. I want a greasy cheeseburger. You're the king baby. Liz Bob &Doug, You're going to Grace land! L. To The Union Col1ege Republicans Club: Really sorry about Dan. Hey, there's always '92! Mornin', Mornin', Bluebird Sin gin' in the Momin'. Momin', Mornin', Bluebird Singin' in the Momin'. Mornin', Morn in', Bluebird Singin' in the Momin'l Hey Fatty, Two weeks until Halloween and no power skatin' punkin. Moca, · Thanks for the best year of my life. \Buttons\ owner BLOOM COUNTY by Berke Breathed A5 tHevtTIIf}(£ 115 RliGWffEP fflUliN, 7/E 5EIJSON~· Flf?~T K61/l COtVTf(OVa?SY l?ffff\ifffiPfP UPON 1/iC fr1/JilfJOWCRir1\5 .•• f!IKTY W51PGK6 H()fJ/lt.~ ((} PeC/P€ HOW ~5T 1V .fi!J/f?f£ 1116 FV$6 OVE3K 11/~1/r C!l!.fPI- /liJT6'6111ST Pf(llff AWVf?ArVCIL ' JHG FReSJ Hf/!7 /l/~COV61?~!? Wlfi1T 17£/K C!lf.IPI/7f/7e./IIIP fl()/'16 Pl!RIMJ 7116 n:JffK Yf3f/K5 OF .Vf61Nt1M ... WHY, meKe W~R~ /11()')56 6N6MIIf~ IIU lff11}(JNf?. .. Ntrlf MU05Ef ... COMr1116 fr'IOOoG ... IT W/15\... , l/H, YOU KNOW .. . . 9 117t~ IY B/{ tOom fie(), ., 1 1 ~~.1N3/Si5: · rVAS f)*\***~ PROIJP. TO 5£RVE . IN THE CIINRfJIIJN NATION!lL MOOSE MOVNTffS r ~; . ,, ' , dftt feast I wasn·t a - ~fr dociger\ 5 - ... -· -- •. _ ~.. . ay.7 cat NAil I \ ~ AS IJN(f{HEK M~M WARF!IOR ONC& 5111/J, we Mt1Y ee tN fl(Zfl P00-/?00.

/. Page 20 CONCORDIENSlS October 20, 1988 PERSONALS ATTENTION: To place a personal in th~ . paper; you MU3.r go to the lnfmmation D€sk. · Each personal costs 50 cents and no personal over 28 words ·vvi II be permitted . .Persl}naJs must be submitted by 4 o!clock on Tuesday .. Jen & Vicki (Als<J1 known as \The Funnel Womm\!}. Thanks for comingover- You guys are hysterical!!! Love, Andrea Lorraine ' Thanks for everything, you can ·. never be \replaced\!.! I'm s:till' waiting for our own version .of l'equipe de tag!! Comprends? Kathy · Dear Bozos, You have the attention span 0f two-year-olds. Everyb()dy . knows the best is last! ! The 3 Dwarfs · Dear Bozos, When girls throw slurnbecr parties, they don't fall asleep. · We'll show you how it's done! The3 Dwarfs Laljl'en, Congratulations on the balloon launch! Get p~yched for rush! Aplomb, Impertu:r:bable self\possession poise, or assmance. Oh, is that what that means? The student, or no wait - a tourguide? Hey Gamma Phi, Good luck oil rush - remember Rabin and Peter and SMILE! Hilary and J ene, 1'banks for folding and mailing! You guys are Awesome! J en, Katie, V ick..i, Cathy, Laura, Thanks for listening to me babble about \my man\ . Your support has Ifle2nt a lot. I'm glad we've all become good friends! I Am The King Baby! Thank you very much!! Get Messed October 29th is Coming. , Flip Flop, Flip Flop, Flip Flop, Flip Flop, Flip Flop, Miss your meals, lose your :. sleep, smile! Love, Andrea Wendy, Do you mind if I dance wit yur : date? PJB, North Deltas Thank you for the talk. You know that your friendship means alot! Don't yoll? North Deltas, ORay I had the best time! !Iit . · me! Kathy The eternal pessimist LZ, What'll we_ d<> without Waddles? He would ltave died in our sauna anybC>w! Do you have a PHILips screwdriver? Nothing is permane.r1L!.! Big Sis, For all the personals I forgot to send last year. Sorry. Love, Maggie KC Greg, Christos & Andy, We know you're not having· fun. Hmm, I need somoeoite to move my refrig, cinder blocks ... Seriousl:y, I just , stopped by to say hi! Maggie & Tara L. J.M., How 'bout next Sunda·y? Moonstruck? Goober, (What a cute name!) Thank you for sC> :many fun times! M.S. -- We'll always be frie11ds -even without the duck! Kathy Lindsey and Zoe, Keep up the good work. Weare almost there! ATTENTION: STUDENT FORUM NEEDS ACTIVE ENERGETIC PEOPLE FOR COMMITTEE POSITIONS! The Student Forum needs people to apply for several committee positions available. Participating on a committee is extremely important for th~ school as wetl as for yourself. Committees ate a. vital part of t.Jnion's operations and functions. Decisions made from these committees affect school policy. If you are a.n active member of the campus and you feel y<Ju can make the dedication and commitment, a.pply for a committee today! These positions are available: . Two seni<HS and one junior position for Carnp~s Ope.rations Commi~tee Board. Two positions for the Conduct Committee. This committee decides on appropriate action on a student's miscol'lduct. One positi:()l1 for the Committee on Research a.11d Grants. One junior, ~>n e senior position available for Tile Honorary Q,egree Board. This comm1ttee decides on the commencement speaker at graauation. Pick up applications in the Student Activ.ities Office, College Center room 408. . . . . . 1 Dot, Miss you. L()ve Myron Maria, Kristen & Beth, You guys were great! Thanks so much. 1 Love Laura Hang in there, Michele! Only one mote week!! Found: Sunglasses and case on Saturday. Call Barb at x4463. Poops, Let's cross our fingers; hope that Mr. W. comes to ·his senses and realizes that I'm Ms. Right!. Do you think he ever will?! They all left me. Love, Munchkin Marn, Is it D.D. or J. whatever? You think you're pretty tricky, but I know what you're all about. Love in the nature with Me. TIS Alumni of .the House: We hope your liquid refreshments are up to your standards. Enjoy the weekend! The Pledges Kimba: It's a lst Come 1st Serve Basis. The race is onf Unless U want 2 compromise and double up? CAB, Airs quiet en the home front. Don't .start any· new wars w/your roommate! You've got to survive until at least March 18. Miss-you lots! SMC Dirty, We have some great friends! They're watching out for me. (Jeretny wllo?) Though I must say, having Zim walk me 11ome just isn't the same. E.B.A.F.D.E.M.U. Sport- Willy CAMPUS NEWS, Robin B., t I hope you brought your raquet .abroad - you wouldn't wan anyone to ask \You're on the team?\ After see:ing us play! P. P.S. I knew Andy was there for some reason! ! Davidson,. You were real sly Saturday night ... Did the lirie work? Wink! Wink! Burt and Stan Attention Union Males, ·One jappy girl seeks wimpy, ugly man - If interested Contac~ Burl!! To My Rapping Roorrries: · How about a game of jacks? No cheating! Love your rocking rap master, Beeky P.S. Jane, .sorry for getting you sick! · · Senior Meddler: GDI, who said our seniOT year was meant to be spent at Drunk Club? Senior Meddler: If you think its going down the tubes, then get going on your' own Drunk Club. If you're · Greek, you know where the bar room is. Rich and Brad, Brad and Rich, It was amazing seeing you two this weekend.' I've missed you both. The Golden Child. Robbie D, Thanks for the amazing dinner Saturday night - Pass the roast beef, pass the potatoes .... Listen to the Bottom Line! : Sunday at 9-10 p.m. on WRUC. Topic: Cheating. Call in: 370-6151 or 6154. Ing, L. Was that a left at the 4th stop light from Syracuse? \Thumbwhip\ P.S. \Is there.pne missing?\ · (Keep Smiling!) Julie Brand: Sorry Toto, you don't go through Kansas to get from New York City to Schenectady! How was New 1 Jersery? Love,. Becky IGUANA KlSS, LINDSAY? -J.A,L,T. Hallie, You sleep too much and you never study! Jen ... And one moldy cantelope. Ju-ju, A1 & V.- . Lefs do Mexican again - but 1 next time, we'll go for three ' rounds of f<>09. . L&J I I I I I ! I I I Alyn, If you forget the strawberry again - I'll Kill you! \\-'·· Larir Lori, Ken and Silverman, I am not a pledge! Peer pressure, maybe? Not good! Little 1;.-ina Dear Tri Delta - You Guys Are Doing A Great Job! · Delta Love, Lester Ex-frap: Happy 20th! I h~'>pe it's the best one yet. Let's go out and have fun. This may be a birthday you'll forget. You're the best! Love, ex-frap . ' Little Twerp, Lina & Denny, Spechen zie Rim! Love, Kill. SDT, Tri-Delta, and DG: One week and we'll all be relieved, happy and having fun with out new :pledges. Good luck. Love, Gamma Phi Beta Carolyn (little moose) .. Happy Birthday. Have a good one arid let's party. · 'Love, the sisters ofG-Phi-B Little Jill, Price Chopper? Make a right? Make a left? Finally! . Little Lina G-Phi-B's: . It's almost time, get psyched. Keep smiling and ... \ don't wony, be happy:t\ · Nancy, Feliz Anniversaire!! . Hope you have the best birthday. Love, us' three MaryAnne, Happy Birthday!!· I sure do love your haircut. Love, the giggling haircutter Lori, Jill & Denny, Conjugation of the word ... maybe getting carried away? It was fun although a little queer. Little Lipa Dave, Toby, John, Aids, Bulemia, Cancer, Dyptheria ... Liz& Tara Leslie,~ Don't leave home without t ... tin foil! i Chris & Sue, Ships Allow!! T. They didn't wear their popeye utfits!ll 0 North Deltas , . '

' I ' > i , I CONCORDIENSIS October . 20, 1988 STATE LEGISLATIVE INTERNSHIP The Political Science Department will offer PS 7 6 (Legislative Observers) during :Winter .Term. This course requires participants to work 12 hours per · · week in the New York State Assemby, tQ. a attend a .. ·Support Group for Grieving Have you experienced the loss of a parent, relative or close friend? D.o you need to talk about how you deal with the upco~ning holidays? If so come to CC 404B Thunxlay, October 27th 3 PM For more information contact: Religious Programs ,OUice 6618 .. 6087 6539 bi-weekly seminar in Albany sponsored by the . '--\\'\-------------------' Assembly Intern Program, and to ~submit written work to Prof. Tidmarch, Campus Coordinator of the program. Participants must promise to continue in the Spring term with PS 78 (the second half of ~ ' Le.gislative Observers). Only ten interns can be · . acco~modated. If you are interested, please C9]llplete the application form in the Pol. Sci: Dept. office (SS 216) prior to Wednesday, October 26,1988. Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation 712 Jacksan Place, NW. Washington, DC 2006 ~elephone 202-395~4831 ~.·~· Union College ' Union College sophomores interested in a caFeer in .government sexvice at the federal, slate or local level are invited to apply for a 1989 Harry S. 1nunan Scholarship. ~tabllshed by Congress in 1975, the Hany S, Truman Scholarship Foundation operates an ongoing educatlonalscho!arship program designed to provide opportunities for outstanding U.S. students with polentlalleadershtp ability to prepare for careers in government seiVice. In April 1989, the foundatlc;m will awarcl 105 Scholarships nationaUy. The DEADLINE for all 1989 applications is ~emeberl, 1989- ~ Union College caD nominate ·three students for the 1989 competition.,._ The Scholarship award covers expenses. up to $7,000 per year for Jt the junior, the senior, and two years of graqul,l.te study. * To be eilgiable; a student mu~t be a full-Ume sophomore working ~ toward or planning lo pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a uB\ ~ average or equivalent, stand in the upper fourth of the class, and be a U.S. citizen ot U.S. national heading toward a career in government* Interested students should submit a letter of application, a statement of career plans, a Ust of past public-service ·activities or ....._ oU1er leadership p<lslllons, a current transcript, and a 600-word ,.,..... essay discussing a pUblic policy Issue of their choice to ..L.. Prof. Charles Tidm'llrch. .-.-- Truman Scholarship Faculty Representative Soc. Sci. 216, byNovernember 10. ******* * * \Reagan Fest\ to honor. the Gipper The Union College Republican Club is sponsoring Reagan Fest, on Mond~y, October 24. It will beheld in Social Sciences 016 from 7:00 ·P.M. to 10:00 P.M. The evening will feature The/ Promise, a sho~t tribute to Reagan, produced by the Republican National committee. Following ./ that, there will be a showing of Knute· Rockne: American Hero, Reagan's biggest Hollywood s~ccess.Refreshments, including jellybeans, will · b_e serve~. Admission will be $1.00 person, payable at the door. Turn out and help make it one more for the Gipper~ Page 21 Students accepted for next fa.ll's TERM ABROAD to Bath are now requested to take ONE of the following courses: ENGLISH 19, 20, 21 HISTORY 47, 48 The course may be taken at any time before the student participates in the program, not necessarily in the preceeding term. AWARE PRESENTS PMS A Discussion .with Karen Tabor,RN Monday, October 24 7:3.0 PM cc 409 ATTENTION UPPER CLASS MEAL CARD HOLDERS The Winter Term Meal Plan zs approaching rapidly. If there are any changes for winter please contact Rich Bain at Union College Dining Services. If not notified of change your meal plan will remain the same next term. · Attention All Fraternities And Sororities Anyone intersted in wearing their letters or drinking their letters from T\shirts to boxers, wine glasses to sunglasses for competitive prices call Mary Levinson x4 i 40 · Box 1020 Samples and Pricing LANGUAGE TABLES FRENCH .. Mon. 12:45 -1 :45 SPANISH -Tues. 11:45 -12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN- Wed. 12:45\ 1:45 ITALIAN - Thurs. 11 :45 - 12:45 JAPANESE- Mon. 12:45- 1:45 All Language Tables will be in the College Center Uperclassmen's Dining Hall. Anyone not on the meal plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub and bring it up· or \brown bagn it.

· Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS QctoiJer 20, 1988 C!rnncn,r~iensis SPORTS ~'\ \ Women's Soccer dereated rival R.P.I. Saturday 2-0. The Capital District Squash League Toumam.ent has begun. The Union team consisting ·of students and faculty competes against several area teams. Anyone inter~sted in joining· can Ru.gby ·lllds With a Bang :By LES MCFLY Ancient Rugby Lore has it that on Homecoming, presidential election years •• and a full moon that the sun will shine and so will the team. · , This past Saturc;iay was no ·\ exception as tl)e Union R.G.B. lot cruised to a 21-15 victory over rival RPI. Union came out flying as Phil \Philo\ Hom officially declared it open season on RPI ruggers as he popped one of their scrummers lnto the cheap seats ()n the opening kick-off. Union quickly took a 3~0 lead as Captain Chris Sheridan took advantage of a RPI penalty and made good on a ~nalty kick from 40 meters. Union continued to dominate due to \ the strong play of their serum and cheetah-like s~d of their line. Captain Dave \Spud\ Webb was quoted as saying, at . the post .. game press conference, \I've never seen us click like that before. It ·seemed like we owned them.\ Union was, in fact, so intimidating that they forced the RPI fuU back t() who made a ,perfect up and under kick to the R.PI wing. UI!fOrtunately for that wing! Steve Silbertnan was in a demo mood Saturday an<;l did just that: demoed the wing. John \Weaponbead\ ]3ak:er picked up . the ball and ran ~or greenbefore he was caught by the RPI prop. However, he did make a patterned pop kick which went out of bounds at the RPI 23 . meter line. Union won the lineout and senior fullback John \Dangerous Jack\ Gobron faked a :pass spin off the RPI fullback and ran in for the try. Gobron was, however, looking to pMs to Toby Oberdorf who had earlier complained that tb.e line get~ to have all the fun. Sheridan rni.ssed the kick and the score was 12~9 at the end of the flrst haif: Contact: Sandy Vohr 377-2910 · panic on a kick and send the hall up and backwards right into the hands of a surprised but ever alert Dave \SlomC>\ Morrison who caught the ball The second half was a hitting clinic .as RPl bodies were strewn about with reckless abandon and one RPI :tugger claimed to have removed a tooth · from his leg. Brian Spring was curiously seen at the dentist Monday morning. When questioned he replied, \Beats me!\ Union scored again when Chris \The Radiator\ Sheridan picked up the llall after an RPI pen·alty and tiptoed through the sleeping RPI team for Union's third try. Later in the half, \Terminator\ Matt Taylor recieved a pass from Dan \Don't call me stonebands on game day;\ Gilbert and. ran 10 meters to the try line which was· being guarded by four RPI ruggers. Taylor bowled through· them' and torched the ball down Don't let wm:g~asses blur thetr vtston. Whether a glass holds 12 ounces of beer, 5 ounces of wine, or 1 1 /4 ounces of spirits, the alcohol content is the same. It's important to know this because the sizea.ndshape of the glass can give peoj>le a distorted·im pressionofhow much alcohol they're actually drinking. . So when you're out to share some cheer with frienil$, remember how much alcohol is in y()ur gi!ISs and that drinking sensiblY lets you hold things in focus. Always keep safe driving within your sight. A public service message from Will':Rgget.S Institute and ran it 15 meters fm the try. \I've never seen anything like that before in all my years of rugby. It seemed like the Rugby gods. just dropped the ball into my hands as a gift.\ RPI knocked towards the end of the first half by converting two penalty kicks and a quick drop-kick, but Union; sensing its opponent's hope, began to. play the brand of 15-man rugby that has made the ROB lot famous throughout\ the nation. With about 6:17 left in the flrst half~ they began the drive that would break RPI's back. Union hooker Mo. \Don't call ME slow\ Kauf stole the ball from ail RPI rush· with a beautiful hook. Scrumhalf Jamie 0 1 need a nickname!' Janawitz alertly played a slide to create an overload. The . dumfounded R..PI line was clueless and quickly converged on Perry \I ain't heavy\ Levy -<one centimeter over the line. Dave Austin, who was in Indiana for the day <>n a recruiting trip but was nevertheless watching the game via mental telephone, said, \He· should have passed.\ The game ended shortly. Coach and mentor Skip Acox described the game as \a triumphant victory that will long live in the memory and hearts of all who witnissed the event.\ A special thanks goes out to all who supported the team throughout this 4-2 season. See you in the spring. I, ;·. \

\ ..:..· - . .. /. Athlete of the Week . By DAVE MOR.:RJSON One who has played a maj:or and a win over Williams .. She Sports Editor Fole in the success. of this fall'~ has not only done well of late; field. hockey team is juni<;>r but she also has an incredible As the Fall. sports season ,goaltender Jennifer ~yon$, this nine shutouts thus far in the marches onward, the field week's \'Athlete of the Weelc.'' season. She has made 57 saves hockey team finds. themselves Jen.nifer is a political seienc~ and has only let up fom: goals. with a 12-0 record. This marks major from Queensb~y H.S., Jennifer Lyon has proven to their· best season ever and they Glens Falls, NY. She earned be a big asset to her team and <anncor~i.en.&is SPORTS ACC:ORDING TO GO.ETZ ·By GREG GOETZ Page 23 SPORTS ·are. the ottly undefeated team her fttst varsity spot and letter the team's success is riding in this fall. In the past, last .year when s'he started 11 p~ on her shoulders; She has · Once again,. my proficiency recognition nas gon¢ to a games having a record of 7-3 done an excellent job so far and ·as a prognosticator has prov~n number o.f . outs:tan:din.g with 89 saves. This week, with a team effort it looks like less than spectacular, The scoring drive, it was obvious that RPI was already hanging their beads in defeat. For the first time tbis season, the defense di<l_aot allow the big plays whicll have buried them in past weelcs. The offense also deviated froi!l the predictability which has cll·aracterized their performamce tllis season. The offensive players for their Jennifer dei,Uonstrated her Union field hockey will have Wodd Series could very well scoring abilities. However, it outstanding ·defensive ability continued success. be over hy the time this !lfticle is betortling more. and more and her importance to her team We at Concordiensis wish is printed. And of 'Course, the apparenuhatdefense is the ktw by making 16 saves in a 1..-0 Jennifer and her teammates ·team I didn't pick is now the ingredient to any great team. win over Middlebury College luck in the rest of-the season. · ·favorite. At first glance, the -~-......,...---------. ... ----~-----~--------- · Oakland A's are the most . c· . . : . . . c· . . . .. . . . . . . . powerful team in baseball. ..•. ross · .. oun .. ·· tr·y·,· :~;ra~:uo~a~~:~:~~~~~~~ ~ake one of the great Sp. otlig .. · ht · :~::;D:n~!~ . trick plays that they used surely ca11ght RPI by surprise, but the SJ)ectators were as incredulo11s as the Engineers, (I know I was): By X-C Team Hello there cross country fans! Shortcake here, reporting for Concordiensis Sports, bringing yC>u the Cross Country S;pC>tlight. This week's focus is on the top two runners found on this year's team, Sandy Anselment and Kara Merrill. · Sandy, th~ newest member tQ. thiS year's young team, has been a s.tandout all season. In the frrst cross country race of her college career, she surpdsed the competition, as well as her QWri te~m. by running . an oqtstanding race and finishing as Union's top finis~er. }\s if that .wasn't enough, in bet. next ra~e she improved her tin}~ by over a ininute and finished fourth overall in a tough field. Again she crossed the line' as Union's top finisher, setting ~~ stag.e with her now at the head. of the team and there to stay. LflSt Friday, at Saratog~, she again held her own as she crushed the ·competition, crossing the line first for Union and sixth overall on the hi1ly 5K course. According,to the women's captain, ;'Sandy has been a very consistent and strong runner this year. Shcr's a hard worker and I see great potential iri her since she is just beginning Iier coUegiate running career~ She'~ a defin!te asset to the team.\ Kara is a second-year veteran to the cross country team. Last year she was plagued ·by being overshadowed . by . senior standout Jen Lee. This year,. it seems to be occurring again as Sandy is, stealing the show. However, her running ability does not go unnoticed. Although Qverw\ielmed py an unfortunate occuttel').ce in bet first race of the season, Kara came back strohg in her second race as she improved her ti~e by three minutes finishing second for Unidll and eighth overall. Last weekend, she came back even stronger to c~ose the gap that exists between her and Sandy. \Kara is a vital member of this year's- team,\ says the women's captain. \In a cross country meet, it is not the first runner that causes the win, it's the ones who follow. Without Kara, the team would not be as strong as. it is.\ Now, for a recap of last weekend's meet. The women's cross country team traveled north to Saratoga to compete in the Capital District Meet. They ran .strongly, proving themselves to be the third best team in the area As mentione'd before, Sandy and Kara both ran strong races helping the cause. Jen Regan ran an extremely tough race mentally as she attempted to concentrate without the help of her usual running partner. She succeeded, finishing nineteenth overall. Rounding out the top five was Miss 400 m convert herself, Meg Parsons, who continues to bum up the x-c courses with long distance abilities that she never thought she had. Impressive races were to be found throughout the group that day as Lynette Nielson, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, Tracy Reynolds and Sue Lyon all heiped put Union on the Capital District map of great running schools. .- Saturday, the lady 'fq,nners are traveling to SUNY Albany to compete in th~ Albany Invitational where they will show their best against 50+ schools.. Will the ladies be impressive at Albany? Will Sandy be a standout again? Who will be in next week's cross country spotlight? The answer to these qu.estions and more can be found in your next edition of · the Concord ie nsis. Same Concordiensis time. Same Conc~rdi.ensis-page. SCOREBOARD Football Union 27 RPI 0 Field HoQkeY · Union 2 Middlebury o Union 2 _ Williams o WontMS Tennis UlianO Williams 9 Union 4 RPI5 . Union 4 . Hartwick 5 \ ' Womens SOccer Union 0 Plattsburg 2 Union2 RPIO MensSQm:er Union3 APIO Women X-C Capital District Meet Finished .3rd of 5 with 72 points MensX.C Union 4~ RPI16 MensAugby Union 22 RPI15 Volleyball Union 15 Manhattenville 9 ·union 15 Manhattan ville 1 o Union 9 Elrnira 15 Union 15 Elmira 12 Union4 Elmira 15 Union 9 Hamilton 15 Union 11 Hamilton 15 Union 11 Hamilton 15 team was victodous over rival RPI. I kind of like that. In fact there's nothing ·quite like seeing RPI sports teams board their bus for the ride hQme after a loss. Too bad its a short ride home. The football team gave the Engineers their just des&erts. Early on, the Dutchmen assumed control of the game. After the ball was . shoved down the \Nerd-ineers\ throat, during Union's first THE NEW ROCK & ROLL DUTCH HOLLOW HOURS: Women's field hockey has continued tlteir spectacular season, stretcbing their record to 2-0. Fiel([ h()ckey is not a sport which asually attracts a great deal of the limelight, but they look as they might finish the season trndefeated which is a rare acc()rnplishment in any sport. On.ce again, a hearty .round of weUdeserved applause goes out to the women's field hockey tea:tn. 4-12 EVERYDAY Come visit us at the college center. CALL Delivery is free with .a purchase . of $5.00 or over, or a small pizza. WANTS TO PICK YOUR BRAIN. 370- 6060 Sign-Ups For Teams ·in College Center 407 Friday, Oct. 21- Friday, Oct. 28 4 players + 1 alternate is required of an teams Rules available at the information botth. .... - ...

...... .. ' On Fire: Field Hockey improves to 12·0 by be~ting ,powerhouse rival Williams. Women's Soccer lost to: P.lattsburgh bwt bounced back agaiost BPI. October 20, 1988 . Fighting. Dutchmen Rip RPI, 27-0 By ANDREW SEEWALD The Union College football squad celebrated Homecoming Weekend and gained a measure of revenge in the process. The Dutchmen dominated on defense and orchestrated an opportunistic offense to put together their finest effort of the season. The large crowd was surprised early as Union moved out to a lead, and then took delight as the Dutchmen defense fiustrated the Engineers and offense controlled the ball. RPI came into the game as a strong favorite over the 1-3 ::.c:: Dutchmen, with last year's 29- ~ 17 Engineer victory still fresh w in the minds of the players and [ij t; fans. RPI was 3-1 entering fii Saturday's game, their only ~ defeat coming at the hands of !2 Albany State, 20-16 on a last c. minute touchdown. Union had also lost to Albany in their outing, 26-12. With the crowd energetically backing his team, Union Coach AI Bagnoli infused the same sort of enthusiasm into his offense. After featuring an extremely conservative, often monotonous offense in the first four games, tl,le Dutchmen got creative and it paid dramatic dividends. In the second quarter, Union executed a flea-flicker play to set up their first score of the day. Freshman quarterback Brett Russ, making his third consecutive start, pitched to senior tailback Ryan Mason, who then flipped the ball back to Russ. Wide receiver Mark Callahan was streaking down the right sideline, and Russ hit him in stride for 55-yard play to the RPI 4. Mason then ran :he hall in an'! after Jason Kraus~ ·.s ~xlra. puJ!Al; Uruon had a 7-0 led. Later, the Dutchmen would convert a halfback option pass thrown by Jerald Walker into another score. Enjoying excellent field position providyd by Union's yet-to-get-untracked offense, the Engineers easily could have taken a commanding lead in the first quarter. Rut Union's defense held tight, coming u:p with big sacks and causing key turnovers. The game was actually the second shutout ()f the season for the defense. Hobart's only points in their 21-7 defeat came by an interception return. penalties,, 65, then they allowed by plays from scrimmage. The Engineers had the ball for 52 plays, picking up just 57 yards. RPI was held ' to three first ·downs for the game, and quarterback Matt Doucet was intercepted 4 Union recaptures '\The Dutchman Shoes\ But Saturday there were no interceptions. Like the Hobart game, the key to victory was minimizing mistakes. That, combined with an offense that finally li,ved up to its potential, led to a sweet homecoming for both alumni and the \Dutchman Shoes\ trophy. *** Brett Russ was 10 for 17 f<lr 131 yards and no interceptions. Two weeks ago, Russ was 26 for 54 in a lqss to Albany State .... Horace ·Griffin was once ag&n the rushing star f()r the DutChmen. He gained 103 yards on 21 carries .. ; .Union allowed RPI more yardage by times .... Next up for the Dutchmen: Coast Guard. Saturday's game (1:30 p.m. kickoff, with radio coverage on WRUC 89.7 FM) is the last home game of the season. After having October 29 off; the Dutchmen will travel to Norwich and Hamilton to complete the 8 game schedule. UNION RPIBOX SCORE RPI Union first downs 3 1.6 rushes-yards 31-'16 54-215 passing yardage 41 163 passes .7-21-4 12·19•0 fumbles-lost 1-1 2·2 ·penalties-yards 6-60 7-65 .. Men's Soccer Putting It Together By CARL &: FRIEDRICH, JR. The men's .soccer team appears to have returned to its winning ways. By registering two wins over the past week, . the team regained its status both with f:?e critical campus press and with its opponents as wen. The see-saw season has so far supplied the soccer team with· many high and low points. Currently the teain is riding a high--they aFe unbeaten in October (3--0-1) and have boosted their record to a strong 5-2-3 overall. The pair of relatively easy wins this past week should prepare the Dutchmen for upcoming weeks. · This past Wednesday, the Dutchmen hosted Siena College and defeated them 4-0. Even this lopsided score does not indicate how badly the Dutchmen pounded Siena. In every facet of the match the Dutchmen held the decisive edge. In the first half the team scored with a goal by Eric Gural. The Dutclutten failed to score again that half, but they controlled the game, putting constant pressure on the Siena defense; which was to collapse in the ensuing period. The second half was perhaps the team's finest of the season, and the_ finest as well for those players from Delta Phi. Led by David Hass, the house that St. Elmo built .seemed to shine on the four members of the team. Haas played his best collegiate game ever, an effort which included his first goal •. Defender Eric Reaman also scored his first goal from forty yards· and played a · tremendous defense, shutting down Siena . strikers with almost comical ease. Kim Obermeyer piayed a fine game at midfield, and Adam Paget combined with Denny McTaigue for the~ shutout, giving the Delta 'house. significant reason to miss their Thursday classes. .Strong efforts were also contributed by Ric}l_ Ep_g_dahl a'ild Aaron Epstein; both have played key roles in the return of the Dutchmen. ' On :Somecoming Saturday, the soccer team added to the sweeping of RPI by beating the Engineers 3-1. The Dutchmen.got on the 'board in the first half with a goal by Gural. Tb.e team carried over much of the effort from the Siena game. Goalie McTaigue played a- strong game, despite having his near four-game sb.utout streak snapped when an RPI free kick took a freaky \bounce midway through the scond half imd skiped over his shoulder. ln the RPI game, Haas again dominated the midfield, and Sandy Ventriglia chipped in a strong game at Striker. D.J. Hodson, filling in for injured Brian Desmari.s, was a: standout on defense as well. From bere, the road will get rough for the Dutchmen. They will ride the wave -of fheir current success straight into five away games, beginnmg with University of Rochester. Included in the roadtri:p are archrivals RIT, Clarkson, and St. Lawrence. If the Dutchmen have any inclinations towards postseaso:n play, they must perform· well against these teams, not to mention the other remaining teams--Colgate and Nortli Adams, both of whom the Dutchmen lost to last year. If the Dutchmen can ·· continue they high level of play which they ~ave shown in past weeks, they should come home for tlle playoffs. Union Is Changing ... Concordiensis is · changing too! Watch Us. Read Concordiensis every week! ... ' J

.. ' ~ VoJ.. CXVIII, No. () VP of Jnstitutiona!Pianning ·Jack Mar:anvlll~ VP .of Finance and Admini$tration John H~l.!sar . • -- ' ! • College 1877 ~- Schenectady, New York Union College's En,dowment Fund 1974 -----------.---$20 minion 197 6 ---&-------- $30 miUion 1985------------ $75-80 million 1987 ______ .:_ ___ $90-92 million (as of June 30) 1987 __ ....,.;... ________ $80 million (as of Nov. 5) 1988.---------------$90 .million (approximately) October 27, 1988 VP College Resources Robert Rasmussen Director of Alumni Affairs Paul Rieschi~k COLLEGE INVESTMENTS: WHY THE SECRECY?. By KEVIN w.- IRLAND . would not disclose whether Union held investments in any As college costs continue to such companies but did refer to spiral upward and the the fact that tile Ad-Hoc importance of obtaining a Committee on Social college education increases, Responsibility drew up a college students and their proposal entitled Social parents often ask where their Investment Policy, passed by hard-earned dollars are being the Board of Trustees in June ·\: 1986. spent. Understanding these costs . When asked about possible becomes more difficult when investments in South Africa, colleg\:}s' announce they have . Vice President of Finance and endowment funds reaching intb Administration John Hauser the millions of dollars. Where !!tated that Union does nothold d · h . . investments in~ ,; ... any oes our money go; ·ow 1s It used, and why~ the College keep asking for.more? Union .• which sports an endowment of nearly $90 million, has also consistently raised tuition within the past .· five years. While people continue to pay these escalating prices, a question which is brought up, is whether College f11nds are invested in companies doing business in South Africa. When asked about how Union stands in regards to divestment of companies doing business in South Africa, administrators consistently \. • • The College has decided. • • • against total divestment • • • on the grounds that such a policy would be · r·~ t• \ me .ec 1ve ••• companies that woilld not be in . accordance with the Sullivan Principles and tttat the Board ·made it very clear to its money managers that they should 'honor their (the Board's) resolution.••. · . The resolution specifi~ally states that, \ ... the Trustees ... ·have adopted a policy of selectively divesting its stocks in companies that .are unwilling, afte:r thorough discussion with the College, to work actively to improve the welfare of black South Africans .. .'; (Social Investment Policy, Union College, 6/3/86). Vice President of • Institutional Planning Jack · Maranville, when questioned about Union College's divestment policy, stated, \ ... that the College decided . there were better institutions to • deal with divestment.\ This . comment is in reference to the portion of the policy which states, \ ..• The College has . decided ... against total divestment ... on the grounds that such a policy would be ineffective in producing constructive change in South Africa ... and would be a . political tactic inappropriate for this College ••. \ (Social Investment Policy, 6/3/86). Vice President of College R~sources Robert Rasmussen stated that, \ ... the College has no investments in companies not comp.lying with the Sullivan Principles.\ This statement was backed up by Term Trustee and Finance Committee Chairman Jerry Serchuck. Serchuck stated that, \ .. .if we held any questionable stocks ... they would have been tot'ally divested.\ When asked what types of investments the College had made and where a majority of those investments lay, administrators were once afl;ain \ • . d t ••• m regar s o divestment of companies doing business in South Africa, administrators consistently would not disclose whether Union held investments in any such companies \ unable to give a definite answer. Hauser stated that, \: .. the portfolio., is well- diversified and that the investments move from industry to industry over time.\ Trustee Serchuck was able to · · elaborate on the inability to pinpoint investmments stating, \ ... there is not necessarily a core group of stocks and there are certain times for certain stocks.\ Despite these attempts to shed light on the College's investments, the - Administration was unable to provide any speccifics. What all · were able to elaborate on in .great detail, is a subject which many people find confusing and that is the subject of how the College obtains and manages its substantial endowment. The first step in the \endowment process\ is the responsibility of Director of Alumni Affairs Paul Rieschick. According t<> Rieschick, \ ... basically my responsibility involves public relations.\ By having a strong alumni affairs program,. Rieschick states, \: .. that the College is showing it cares about its alumni...and goocl feelings produce more dollars.'' Rasmussen and his staff in the Development Office are responsible for the continued growth of the general endowment, in addition to the Annual Fund. The Annual Fund, explained Rasmussen, is Continued on page 3 With Unearthing Restraint \Men of Maintenance\ Pull out the heavy artillery declaring 'War' on Campus Steam All the World Produces Wine, New York State Included Field Hockey Team Advances to State Semi-Finals

Page Z CONCORDlENSlS October 27,. 1988 .· a.tnncorili.en·sis NEWS ANALYSIS Thatcher Reb:uked For Prohib<iting A.n,gJo-l~rish Politicai-Fre:e,dom By PROFESSOR NEIL ... rec<lrnmendation of its lawyers. GARROD · . This not only means that Once again the Iron Lady has shown her metal. In an extraordinary move on October 18, Prime Minister Thatcher effectively gaged any :p olitica.I initiatives taking place in Northern Ireland. Following media coverage of a. news conference with Danny Morrison, a leading member of pcliticians, like Adams, are stifled but, even more ~oliti.cians, like Adams, ne .stifled, but more · mu~Jucingly, individuals n:re .prevented from airing tlleir views on television Ol' radio. Sinn Fein (the political wing • nenacingly, that individuals of the IRA), the British are prevented from airing their government placed a ban on views on television orra.dio. broadcasting coverage (spoken· . F(:)r a country which claims or visual) of anyone · o11e of the oldest surviving supporting, or connected with, . democracies in the world this is terrorist action in the six a q11ite breathtaking move. To countries. Although Americans with their written supposedly limi~ed to direct <:o£Jstitu:tion and first broadcasts of the spoken word, <~rnendrrtent these moves must the BBC has refr.ained from- 1Je,bewildering. · reporting the contents of a <Co11stitutional issues aside, statement by Gerry Adams, · th~re are two factors of leader of Sinn Fein, in v.!Otlwide significance arising response to the ban, on the from. this action. Firstly, how \ . . . can the British government .. 'their secret service agents were . Ireland but is unable to report · defend such moves whilst ordered to kill Greenpeace {)flo o:ne of the main poHtical· . criticising South Africa for its. · supporters in New Zealand viewpoints? Is this likely to censorship laws imposed ·whilst imposing martial taw in lead to ap: improved level of du..r.ing their declared state of • New Caledonia to suppress acts understanding .between the two emergency? The African of violence? Doe~ the USSR . (actions or, simply, alienate National Council(ANC) kills - • one section of the COiiun.l,mity and maims just as do the IRA . which already feels itself and Protestant .paramilitary In this election year, ·aggrieved, unrepresented and groups. The British .. Americans should take disadvantaged? . government clearly feels that it . note and ensure that no Mrs. Thatcher seems, once can differentiate because its political dc>gma is •; again, to have 'buried her head · cause 'is just and the IRA ~e allowed to erode the first · in we· .sand of myopic dogma terrorists, whilst South Africa is . amendment. in her continuing campaign to wrong and the ANC are ·:limit the freedom of · the freedom fighters. Can we, the openly explain their · British people within tbe citizens, tolerate such arrogant persecution of Jews and other bounck of her own bigoted and cynicism from governments~!< ·groups whilst· purportedly • unbendingbeUefs. · who feel under no obligation to · implementing a regime which In this election year,· carefully reason the lQgic .of . frees all? . Americans should take note ~d their decisions? Remem:bet; Secondly, what progress carr . ensure that no political dogma tlds is not just a British .. we . expect from peaceful is allowed to erode tbe· first prQble,m: did the U.S. dialogue in a contlict situation arnenament or the duty of any · · 1· 1 . like Northern Ireland, when one elected representatives to full.y· gov,~rnment c ear Y and .. of the ·pro:tag:oni$ts is succinctly di·ffieren· ·n'ate betw· een and.· co.herentty· outlin.·.e ·the··. · · · ·. · · · effec. tively silenced? Th.e the inv:asions of Grenada and mores and belief structures Afghanistan? Did the French .British press Cah stilt report .. upof!.. which.. their violent attocities perpetrated, · · · government openly argue why by either side, in Northern governmental decisions Wjll be based .• , Military Se,rvice Becoming a Valuable Asset for_ Ca:ndldates By BRUCE HAY, JR. The next president of the United States will be elected in November. Something about this election .. is different though. Suddenly, at least as far as the press is concerned, being in the military or once a member of the military is in vogue. o()ftheir huts. Perhaps you shot ~tu<lents at colleges or . . <:o111mitted a whole slew of · ' ~th er atrocWes right on television during dinner. During the Vietnam war, the i military was not a popular institution. You were a baby killer~ or maybe you burned villages to the ground and then shot the people as they ran out 1\egardless of your position )'Oil were bad. To make matters \WtOl'Se American citizens of :SOiltl~ notoriety were asking the l'iJ!}.lic to sympathize with the Vietnamese. However, the t:J.end has suddenly changed. Yice Presidential Nominee Da11 Quayle has been harassed ab.&ut his military service dlLling Vietnam. He s~rved in the National Guard for six years, one of the possil>le deferments at the time. He may have even used some family S()mething ab()ut this election .is dif.fe:r.ent . • . - suddenly being in the . military· or on~e a member of the military, is in vogue. influence to get his position in the National Guard. Now, George Bush has pictures cfrculating of him from \V orld War Two where he.serv:ed as a·· pilot in the Navy. Michael Duk:akis has made a point of · mem}?ers of the pr~ss. No one mentioning his service in ' wants to die, I imagine given Korea for the Amiy. Some of·· tbe chance nine out o.f ten the political literature I have people who got drafted fQr the read has military service above Vietnam War would have opted. all of the candidate's relevant for the National Guard. I do not .political credentials. Military nece~sarily condone the past. service does not necessarily actions of Vice Presidential mean love for one's country,. • Nc:>minee Dan Quayle, but I do especia)ly if you did not 'have a · · thtnk that the press should choice. stick tO reporting the news and . . . . . · not trying to mold it. America To be president m this shou·ld be m h ... d . . . · uc -more wome co,unUJ: you have to .be at least · about the credentials of th thrrty-flve years old and be a C . . · . . e native-born citizen. You do · andidates like tal¢nt and goals not have to satisfy the than · whether or not they . . . . - • . learned how to dig foXholes and untaung, glory seekmg l h t rift • · · · s oo a . e. ' ' The Trouble . With. Presidential Election Poll~ By JED FERDINA,ND :poll was an aberration, and that ·: ]llSil:'s lead at this moment is a . : $Diid ~eight percent. This does Last week, a friend told me · • 11ot mean, however, that Bush that she was not going to vote • : l111s. already won the election. in the upcoming election. Folli11g appears to have made \Why bother\ she said, \all of i th~ process of voting on the polls say that Bush is ~CJvember 8th simply a going to win anyway\. I . fotmality. understood her frustration with : polls that assure us that George : 'Tillis raises a frightening qmestion about the validity of p~lling. While polls. have us. u ally been accurate. in d~termining the presidential ' ;;Vin::~~er, there have been times .vf:Jen. they were off the mark. Bush is going to win. Such · polls have taken away the imp01tance of our individual i vote. This brings up the rather : disturbing nature of polls: they ' have far too great a part in shaping the behavior of the American voter. · In 1948, the last poll taken : oe:fore the election pr~dicted a J)eV'\Iey victory by five percent, Every poll taken since the : ~lle:n.. in actuality, Truman won second Presidential debate has , llyfo11rpercent. With increased George Bush ahead by more · tecltllology, polls have gotten than the margin of error. An : · 11l«Jre reliable. Yet, as recently NBC/Wall Street Journal Poll : as 1976, the last poll taken of October 14:16 had' Bush . 'fue:fore the election predicted a ahead by 17 pomts. Yet, both • . E()rd victory by one percent, the ABC and Lou Harris polls : ..v.Ele:n Carter actually w<>n by taken last week show Bush · two- percent. For Michael with a. seven and nine point · Duk:akis to have any realistic .lead respectively. What : ch-an~ of an election day upset, accounts for this sudden surge . i.t~Jppears that he has to pull to for Du~aki~ at a ti~e when his ~it~itl three or four percent, campatgn 1s perce1ved to be ' t:llei)Oll's margin of error. remaining it is unlikely that Dukakis will be able to pull to· within three percentage points of Bus·h. Yet, it is not impossible: most of these polls fail to recognize that one third of the voters in this country are still undecided,, and therefore \swi11gable\ to . Dukakis. If Dukakis could manage to sway a large portion · of thP.se voter,s, the election would ·be much closer than the polls indicate~ · upcoming election, why do we need to vote? Maybe I am Polls have traditionally been · being too idealistic, but I a necessary instrument for thought that the election was assessing the presidential .. not over unti1 'the night of campaign. Yet, in this year's . November 8th. Don't allow the campaign, the polls 'appear to . have lessened our motivation 1 ~ 0 people who respond to to vote. If all of the polls show these polls every we.ek determine who our next George Bush with a large and · . essentially insurtnountabl.e lead prestdent IS going to be: go , out and vote. • over MiChael Dukakis in the Union.. Revi·ew of Books . . - - - . . . -- November Selection Stephe·n Hawking A Brief 8istory of Time Wednesday, Nov. 9, 1988 .College Center, 1:00 sharp Mobil Lounge, 4th floor ''Even as he sits helpless in his wheelchatr, his mind seems to soar . evet more brO.liantly across the vastness qf space and time to unlock the; secrets of the universe~\ Time Magazine (Book Jacket) 1 'When the achievements of the physicists of the twentieth century come to be considered objectively, thE: work of Stephen Hawking wilt be writ large in the annals of Science.\ · · Astr()nomy floundering? It is evident that . the NBC/Wall Street Journal· Now on sale bi the Campus Store for $9.50 With only two weeks · L..--....oo-----------------------~---- ..

,. .. CONCORDIENSJS October 27, 1988 Page 3 Union Will Hold ·-AI'os· Conference . \' ·~ ~. . .. Minerva Lecture Features N ationall y~Syrtdicated Cartoonist for the· Cap\ital District By LORI ESTES · several magzines including Rolling Stolle,. Mad, Writers T·he nationally syndica~ed · Di~est, Natiom11lLampoon, and, cartoonist John :Caldwell, a various gentleme:n~s magazines. native of the Albany arear . He has hac,la. :;ymdicated daily ·.delivered his le.cture . panel since t9~5, is currently \Trafficking in Nonsense\ carried by fi,:fb 11ewspapers, and during the Minerva Hour last produces over S20 panels a l'bursday. His. off-beat :humor · year. is evident not 'only in his one- Caldwell'~ work closely panel cartoons, but in his · resembles thuofGa.ryLarson's personality as well, and. the ;'Far Side\ se.lief;, yet Caldwell large au.dience in the · maintains t.ha.t he, unlike auditorium respon.de4 with Larson,. is pri.nlarily concerned unabashed and uproarious .• with the i•pe~ple. aspect.\ He laughter; . . says he &tfte:n gets his Mr. Caldwell was born in · inspiration from newspaper the area and educated during the · headings an([ then :formulates e~ly part ofhis life in CoP,oes. · his cartooll fr()tn that point. A graduate of Hudson Valley . When asked Ito\\ he handles the Commuruty College. Caldwell pressure of .deadlines, he said he was a . \problem ·. replied, \I triC:k myself,\ student\ for two years at · Parsons School· of Design .in In 1985 C~ti}'Yell was taken · NewYorkCity. on by King :Features and has. two books 'imprint, Running /His work has appeared in Amuck and Caldwell. • Dr. Richard Goldsby, a · prominent black researcher from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst will be the keynote speaker for the second AIDS conference to take • place . at Union College. This year's one-day event is · :scheduled for Thursday, November 3 from. H a.m. - 4:30p.m. The public is invited to attend the conference, which includes a lecture by Dr. Goldsby entitled \AIDS Science and Society,\ which will be given at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel. Following lunch, which is available in the College Center, there will be four aft~mc;,on seminars to c:hoose from. They run concurrently, for two hours, from 1:)0 ... 3:30 p.m. Specific room sites fGr. the seminars will be .posted in the College Center, where the afternoon sessions will take place. These include: \AIDS and . Minorities,\ which will be Jed by John W. Diggs, Ph.D., director of the Extramural Activhies Program for the Natiooal Institute of Health; \AIDS and\Women'' with Dr. Victoria Sharp of the AIDS Treatment Center at AMCH; and \AIDS and Community Action,\ at which Paul Wright, . a member of the board of the AIDS Action Committee of Boston, will discuss the various ways in which community groups can dessimiriate information about AIDS and provide support services to people with AIDS. A fouith seminar, also from 1:30-3:30 p.m., will be led by Donna Butcher, a training specialist for the N. Y .S Department of Health. \AIDS Update\ is especially appropriate for health care professionals, college resident advisers artdstudents; Professor Twitty Styles, . conference organizer, says \We want to be part . of a community-wide effort to deliver more infonnation about AIDS, and to bring people together with· some of the leaders in science, medicine and social action, who can help us to be more effective in coping with the disease.\ Bringing minority people into these discussions has also been one of the goals of the · Union College AIDS Committee, which is working with Dr. Styles. The Schenectady Chapter of the NAACP'has contributed funds and other support for the conference, and efforts have beeu made to reach people through the church and school networks. following the afternoon seminars, there will be a reception for all conference participants and presenters in the lobby of the College Center from 3:30-4:30 p.m~ For futher information, call (518) 370-6241 or 370-6331. • College Investments:· Why the Secrecy? Continued from pag'e 1 from a don()r 8lld it be~omes the \living endowment\. This. part of the en\o~ment it falls means that the approximately $2.5 million that is raised goes directly into the operating budget of the College. The endowment, on the other hand, , is money given to the College which legally must be held in perpetuity •. While lthe <;;ollege is not . able to use the endowmentJun.ds directly, it is allowed to use any income that is realized from the investment of .those funds. · s.Aft.er a gift h~, been received . \. • • the IJoar.d does not ma.ke specific decisions and it sho11ldli\t . . • \ ·Term 'Trostee and Finan-ce Committee '\ C_h~irman )el'ry Ser~huck under the res}>(Jnsibility of Vice President ()f Finance and CDC NEWS ·Administration John Hauser . and Vice President :of. Institutional Planning Jack Maranville. Hauser and Maranville both went to great lengths to explain the process by which the endowment is managed. The point was. made repeatedly that the College administration and the Board of Trustees do not make specific investment decisions. . Rather that responsibility is left to the three money-management companies employed by the The following companies still have openings on their scheduliifl. If 1nterested, stop by the CDC and sign up for an interview time with resume and tr1111script. , Clough. Harbour..CE majors- 1'1110/88 Continental Telephone Co.-CS majors - 1118f,8!J First Investors-Any Malor-11/10/88 ·Geary Corporation-Any major with ability to pro~r;arn 1119/88 New Ens land Power Servlce-EE- 11/3188 US Dept. oH:nergy-ME, EE & CE - 11/9/88 · Up)ohn .Pharmac;eutlcals-BI~ CH- 10/28/88 :New Addition: Rochester Telephone- 'EEICS-11111i88 GRAD SCHOOL: School for Field Studies ·1117188 Wasblng1on' & Lee University School ot :t..aVI!I -11/2/88 RESUME fiEFERRAL: Island Recreational -All tnajors, deac:lline 11/t4f8!1 · · · SEA Consultants-CE, ME & EE, deadline 11/14f~ INTERNSHIPS/FELLOWSHIPS . . . • Choate RosemaryHall of Wallingford, CT Has Openlrigs.for stJmmer teaching internships 1n vartous fields. • Dow Jones Newspaper Fund, Inc. located in Princeton; NJ has openings available for copy desk interns. Application Deadline: November.15, 1988. · • The National Wildlife Federation gives graduate studoe111s the opportunity to work in Washington, DC on environmental policy.mrudng. Application Qiljidllne: April13, 1989 • The American Assembly of Collegiate Schools of 8u!Biness (MCSB) is administering several fellowships which can • be applied toward study at many participating sc~ls. A.pl)licatibn Deadline: ~uary 6, 1989 . • For more inlormation.on these, stop by the Career ;{)evelopment Center on the th1rd floor, Old Chapel. PARIJIME JOBS . . • • Open Door Bookstore, iocated on Jay St, Scherl~ad~. is looking for people for sales, register, inventory, and - unpacking work. - • United Parcel Ser\llce,located in Latham, NY,has. or;»iilngsfor driver's helpers and preloaders fOr the hoiiday season and beyond. , • Schenectady Jewish Community Center has T&~c:ll~s.Ailde-Day Care position open. Other locations also available. • CVS Pharmacy, State St, Schenectady, hascashiQor/clerk positions open. Other locations also available. • Referee lsnee(led.by !he .Jewish Community Cent-et'.\Jocated in Schenectady; once a week to referee basketball (lames. .. • Best Temporaries; offers employmentopportuni11~sin'Wa&hlngton, DC. There are a wide variety ofposllions a\lallable in the.office suppart field.. · • Rotterdam Veterinary Hospital, located in Rotterdlliitl .• NY, has:!)art time position available working with animals, stocking inventory, and dealing with clients. • The Software Group, in Ballston take, NY :has a ,art lime posltio.n.$vallabledolng assembly work. . • Herman's has several positions open in their Colol1ie,;tlV, location. These poaitlons intluc!e sporting goods, cashier, htJnting, and more; Company benefits· included, • Desmond. Americana, a hOtel ioca.tec:Uri Albany~ curr:etl~y'ls looking for peopie to fill position a in~ Banquet Dept, Food and Beverage, Housekeeping and laundr)l, l<ltd1en and Front Desk. • More InfOrmation is located in the Career Developrnant Cel\'ler located co .the third floor, Old Chapel. College. While .these three companies are left to do their jobs, the · Administration and the Board of Trustees state I{auser, \ ... keep tabs on the managers and measure their performance against various industry indices.\ Term Trustee and Finance ·, Co)\lmittee Chaitm~n .Jerry · Serchuck concurs with Hauser, stating that, \ .. .the Board does . not make specific decisions and · it shouldn't. .. but we monitor their performance constantly against induslry benchmarks.\ While nobody can complain that the College is mishandling the funds entrusted to it, there are many questions which remain to be answered. The College should address and give proof to its alumni and students that their funds are being used in a proper manner. By not doing so. thy College sheds doubts over its investment practices and this . can only hurt them in the long- run. • Afro-Americanist .Author Scheduled to Lecture An Afro-Americanis~ from the Sta~ University of New York at Binghamton will give a talk on \Black Women's Writirig, Third World Politics, and Feminist Discourses'' at Union College on Friday, November 4 at 1 p.m. The free program takes place in Room 410 of the College Center. Carole Boyce Davies teaches in the English and Afro- American and African Studies Departments at SUNY Binghamton. She earned her Ph.D~ from the University of Ibadan, Nigeria and her master's 1 froll\ :Soward University in Washington, D.C. She has written extensively about women writers of Africa, the Caribbean, and elsewhere . In her articles and books she has also examined the role and . definition of female charactaers in the works of male writers, \such as Wole Soyinka of I Nigeria. Davies sometimes turos to more PQpular forms of culture to examine the roles of women in Third World popu1ations or · in minority groups here in the I States. One· example of her interest is a review of Spike · Lee's first feature film, \She's Gotta Have lt.\ Davies' talk at Union is jointly sponsored by the Departments of Modern Languages, History, and II English; and by Women's p Studies .• • Support Group for Grieving Have you experienced the loss of a parent, relative or close friend? Do you need to talk ab9ut how you deal with the upcoming holidays? If so come to GC Thursday, October 27th 3 PM For more information contact Religious Programs Office 6618 6087 6539 ..

Pag~ 4 CONCORDIENSJS October 27, 1988 Secu·rity Believes Alcohol to be Major Factor . in Va,ndalism By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief The game room on the third floor .of the College Center is temporarily closed due to vandalism. Apparently somebody punched holes in the wall and the ceiling with a pool cue. The sign on the door says that the room will be closed for the next two weeks so the damage can be repaired Director of Campus Security and Safety, Paul Mantica, estimates that the College spends \tens of thousands of dollars,\ repairing ac·ts of vanda,lism every year,\ ..• probably high tens of thousands.\ \Crime from outside the campus is a fact of life. We can · decrease our potential for these crimes by patrolling and other methods. but vandalism on campus is different.\ Mantica states that vandals are difficult to catch in the act because; \It's so easy to run and hide, and during the times that parties are going on (which is when most acts of vandalism occur) · security is involved with :providing escort services.\ · Mantica reports that most institutions attribute vandalism to 'social behavior'. \I think it is tied into peer pressllre and alcohol abuse. Eighty percent of vandalism occurs on the weekends, or is associated with a party during the week. There is a direct correlation between the occurence of vandalism and social events.\ This years file of reparted acts of . vandalism lists such inane acts as the towel and soap dispensers in the men:'s bathroom of the SCience and Engineering Building being :ripped out of the wal:l,. car b.oods. being scratched, and the ticket booth· by the astmturf being tossed into the campus stream. Such acts are not uncommon occurences. ''Every weekend, after a bash, there are at least two light poles pushed over.\ The cost of repairirtg these Iamposts is primarily labor costs, but the price of each new .globe is approximately $30. What the vandals don't seem to realize is that they are ultimately paying for ther repairs. \The students pay for it in the long run. They are inflicting the cost upon everyone else.\ ·The more serious aspect of the vandalism is that it endangers other students. Poorly~~lit walks are unsafe for everyone, and Mantica points out that that false fire-alarms {which he maintains are a -form ·of vandalism.) tend to desensitize students to the point .that they will not evacuate their dorms, mentioning the potential for injury during any evacuation. Manti<;a is quick to point out that b;e has found that most students are responsible and attributes mast of the vandalism to small groups acting out of peer pressure. When asked why he thought students would' want to deface and destruct their own campus, Mantica responded that he has encountered the attitude \Well I pay $17,000 a year to come to this school..;\ and states \I guess that they feel they are exacting the price.\ • Read News Analysis Every_ Week Page Two Writefor News Elise x4410 Jayx4153 Stude.nt .Forum Fo·c.us.es Q:n Minority Sttidents , By BRAD MONDSCHEIN . As well, the Black Latin Alliance. of Students (BLAS) defended the acquisition of Last week the Student Branner House. ·The members. Forum held a meeting · in of the Forum were . con~emed B:ronner House. The FOJ;um with the alienation factor that me~ to hear concerns of might :result from the. house. minority students on campus. The BLAS members. said that · . The major concern mentioned it is a \ to gc) and hang - · · by Craig Sommers was. the ~ out\ and \feel co.mfoJ!table.:\ · school's inability to appoint a · They emphasized the fact that \D¢an of Minority Students.·~ the size of the campus makes Tlie student5 expressed their being · alienated almost concem that the absence oflihe impossible. 'The Student position leaves the St11dents Forum also supported BLAS in with no definite figure to turn their quest to remove ''Native to, Sommers expressed the fact Son\ from the reading list of . that the Dean would be ;'abl~ to Freshman Preceptorial. The get m~ney_ for retention and group cited that the book does graduation ·Of mi11:ority not :por:tray minorities-in a way • .students.\ The students faulted that·the addition of the book to the school in their attempt_to the list intended. ' hire a Dean by poirtting to the The next meeting for the fact that the school. never Forum will be on Thursday ~t adve.rtised in minority ·7 p.m. in the College Center· . magazines while many other Audi(orium. • I schools qo advertise. REVISEO STUilENT FORUM FALL TOUR ~CHEDULE DATE PLACE AGENDA October 27 7:00PM College Center Use of The College Atrium Center November 3 Richmond 7:00PM November 1 0 West College . 7:00PM . .. ~ . ' Women's Issues/ Security The Meal Plan L----------------------------L----------------~--------~_.'.L-------------------------------------_.0 NEWLY. INTRODUCED COURSES IN THE SOCIOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY DEPARTMENT 4 •• \Pec:tples and Cultures of the Paclfic\ · Anth. 101 Prof. T. Gordon This c<Jurse is designed to introduce students to the three culture areas of Oceania: Polynesia, Melanesia and Micronesia, with el1)phasis on Polynesia. Topics will include: prehistory, migration and ethno·history; comparativepolitical systems; religion; social organization; Clllt\!Te and personality; and problems facing contemporary Pacific island nations. Students will be required to write a research paper based on at least <Jne set of backgrollnd readings. and thus will ex.plQre one culture area in greater depth. A midtenn and final exam are. also required. · Prerequisite: Intro. SocJAnth. or permission of instructor. Time: Tu, Th - 2:50-2:30. \Domestic Violence\ Sociology 410 Prof. D. Loseke A sociological examination of issues and questions raised by violence within American families: the public defmition of family violence, subjective experiences of abusers and victims, social. and individual causes and consequences of abuse, comple~ities and problems of social interventions. Prerequisite: Intro. Soc/Anth or permission of instructor Time: Tu, 1h - 2:404:20. The following ·exams which were hsted as being given on Monday, November 2~. 8:30-10:30 a.m. are actually being given on MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21, 11:15- 1:15: ' (Please note: Any additional corrections are underlined) . CHM: 30, Sec. 1 - Organic Chemistry I - L. Hull- BUTR 204 CHM: 30, Sec . .2 ~Organic Chemistry I- W. Martin~ BUTR 204 · ECO 12. LSec. 5 and 6- Introduction to Economics- H. Fried- SSCI 016 EER 143, Sec. 1 and 2 -Electromagnetic Engineeriltg- J. Mallick- NWSE H4 EGL 72 - Literature of tlle New Nation -B. MacDonald- HUMN 112 ESC 18, Sec. 1 - Intra to Digital Computers - J. Gajjar - BAil 207 ESC 18, Sec. 2 - Intra to Digital Computers - C. Traver - BUTR 106 HEB 10- Basic Hebrew I -D. Heckelman ~ HUMN 110 JPN 120- Intermediate Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 116 PHY lOa - Extended Intro to Physics=a - S. Maleki k- NWSE 112 \Sociology of Me~icine\ Soc.l28 Prof. V. DersCh Sociolological perspectives on health, illness, the health professions and institutions, including studies of the social components of disease and its distribution, doctor-patient relat~ons, and alternative health-care systems. Prerequisite: Intro Soc./Anthro. or permission of instructor. Time: M,W.F- 11:40-12:45. MTH 13 - AP Calculus Sec. 1 - T.' Bick - BAIL 100 \The Sociology of Science\ Sociology 129 Professor Zehr . This course is an introductory survey ·of sociological investigations of science and its relation to modem societies. The goal ofthe course is to provide a sociological understanding of the prac*e of science and how it is a fundamental institution in modem societies. Some of the topics covered will include: deviance in science; inequality in science; the construction of scientific knowledge; cultural contexts for the rise. of science; public and private patronage for science; and . scientific authority inpolitics and law. The course will consider science as it is viewed from several theroetical perspectives. Prerequisite: Introductory Sociology or pennission of instructor. Time: M, W,F, 2:00-3:05. Sec. 2 - J. Barbanel - BAIL 104 Sec. 3- S. Niefield- BAIL 1()6 Sec. 4 - J. Hefferon - SSCI 10:3 Sec. 5 - A. Taylor - BUTR 300 Sec. 6 - J. Hefferon - SSCI 103 Sec. 8- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 · MTH 14 - Calculus ill . Sec. 1 - E. Gillette - BUTR 106 Set. 2- W. Stone~ BAIL 201 MTH 30 - Ordinary Differential Equations Sec. 1- W. Stone- BAIL 201 Sec. 2 - A. Seiken - STZH 106 The following exams which were listed as being given on Tuesday, November 22. 4:30-6:30 p.m. are actually being given on WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 8:30~10:30 a.m.: Sec. 3 - J. Muckenfuss - BIJTR 204 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18 - 8:30·10:30 A.M. ADD ESC 10- Mechanics I - Harlow~ BU1R 106 EER 30 Seo. 1 and 2 • Systetn Theory I- V. Fatic- BUTR 109 MTH 10 - Calculus I Sec. 1- J. Muckenfuss- BUTR 204 Sec. 2 - A. Prindle - BAIL 207 Sec. 3 - A. Prindle - :SAIL 207 Sec. 4 - K. Zimmerm311n ~ SSCI 104 Sec. 5 - K. Zimmerrnann - SSCI 194 Sec. 6 ... S. Perera- BAIL 205 Sec. 7- W. Fairchild- BAIT.. 203 MONDAY, NOVEMBER 21 - S:30·1lJ:30 A.M. . .. CER 165 - Systems Analysis and Design - T. Jewell ~ BurR 104 ELL 33 - E~ergy I - W. Aubrey - NWSE 222 SPN 10-02 - Basic Spanish I - R. Vinick - HUMN 110 .. ADD SPN 120 - Intermediate Spanish I • Ruiz - HUMN 112 TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 22 - 11:15·1:15 P.M. EER 33, Sec 1 & 2 ~. Elec Circ Analysis & Design ~ 'E. Hassib - BAIL 207 . .

CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 Educaij,onal Studies Program Student Information Meetings TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 8TH Meetings at 11:00 am , 12.:00 noon,.ltOO ptn and 3:00 pro in College Center Room 203 TIWRSD:AY, NOVEMBER lOTH Meetings at 3:00 pm and 7:00 pm in College Center ROQm409 Union College stndents who:afe consida-mg,careers in secondary schoolteaching for grades 7~ 12 inEngli~b, modem or classic languages; mathematics, ~cience. (biology, ~hemistry, earib science, .physics or general scienc~)or socialstudies. should atten4. Information will begtvenregarding theuild~graduate, graduate, and five-year CQmbmeddegreeprograms. / - M:a:ke a difference ' .... ... become a teacher! , Youc~.now graduate from Union with your •bachelor's degree !Nit certification to teach gr~des 7·12 in biology, chamistry, e~rth science, English; French, geoeral>science, German, Greek, Latin, .mathematics, physics, Spanish, or • social studjes (histOrY, politicB.l science, sociology/anthropology, or economics majors). · THE BOTTOM LINE Sunday 9-10 pm . WRUC 89.7 This We.els Topic: AIDS · · . . . OR You <:an complete a five-year co-mbined degree programand receive· both yourbachelo~s ~egree and a Master (;)j Arts • . Guest: Prof. Styles inTeaching. · , Applications and further information are available from: . · - Prof. Jan McDonald Ph • }k \ Educa;tionai'Studies Program .. ' .· one ID Ta H~nianities:020, x6361 . - . 370~6151· ********************************************* Page 5 i BREAKFAST SPECIAL f· 3 ~~~~~: 4 i AT DUTCH HOLLOW !==================~ * . . * SPAA & BLAS PRESENT: • ' * ~ COMPlETE B.REAKFASTOF 2 EGGS, I. .~ SAUSA,GE·OR BACON, HOME FRIES # 1 ~ AND TOAST J. * * # STILL ONLY $1.89 # * * * * * * * AND THE C,QFFEE IS ON USl * * . * * . . f . . * ********************************************* WttAT IS. COLLE-GE BOWL? . ' ' - ' - . \\!~r.,.~ College Bowl is a game of general knowledge and quick recall. It tests the players on . facts in every a~ademic discipline, .from history to literature to sports to science to currernt even~s_. College ~-O)MI, the \Varsity Sport of the Mind,\ has a long and illustrious history on . · televiSIOn, on rad10 and on campus. 1. 2. . . 3. ·For a quick 10 points -what part of the electromagnetic spectrum was discovered by Wilhelm Roentgen (rent-gen)? J\mswer: X-RAYS or HIGH FREQUENCY or SHORT WAVELENGTH You'd find an airborne division in a modern army. For 10 points -where would you find the Cassini division? Answer: In the RINGS_OF SATURN This team doesn't belong to a league, and never competes for a championship. It was founded in 1927 by Abe Sapp~rstein. For i 0 points - name this world famous team. • Answer: The HARLEM GLOBETROTIERS - SIGN UP SHEETS IN THE COLLEGE CENTER ROOM 407 Teams shouJd be composed of 4 players and 1 alternate CROSSTALK THE I·SSUELESS CAMPAIGN .OF 1988? HOW WILL YOU CHOOSE?r Has this been an issueless campaign, or has the media chosen to focus on the candidates personalities? Perh.aps it would be a poor strategy for a candidate to align himself too closely with issues. Maybe you think these are two good candidates in a well run campaign. Come on out and speak your mind. SUNDAY~ NOVEMBER 6, 1988 (two days before the election) '7:00PM College Center Atrium A Race Relations Workshop w/Tony Harris 1rom American Pictures Tonight Oct. 27, Thurs. 7:30 College Center Auditorium Many Thanks to: The Speakers Forum History Dept., IF C Sociology Dept. Panhellenic, Student Affairs

Page 6 CONCORDJENSlS October 27, 1988 Ill FEATURE ARTICLES With Une•rthing Restraint elbo~s of . pipe to some straight pieces of another pipe. The w@Jd.er, wearing .proteCtive eye we~. proceeded Wlth his task while some curious onlookers watched at an unsafe distance, If .something about vision safety remains unsettled in your stomach you are not alone. In fact the question of safety now arises on a far larger scale. There now exist three By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor For three weeks now I have watched the developing problems and ineffective solutions that have been applied to the resolution of the heating problems. \Being a member of Phi Sigma Kappa I suppose that I, along with my fellow residents have seen the brunt of the problem.\ As observation suggests, the slew of steam that powered its way through the manhole cover immediately outside of Phi Sig, which rattled and jarred the cover creating a geyser of steam,. indicated to those equally observant \Men of Maintenance\ that their skills were indeed needed. I suppose that the intention was to blow all·that nasty steam stuff right back into the earth. This revelation came to me after seeing that a large fan had been placed over the hole, after removing the cover of course, and activated .full time. The results were mixed. Perhaps because of the relatively high density of the earth's crust the ste~ was refuted. Instead, the fan became a local play toy to those who passed by, whirling it about as if it were a helicopter. Obviously a w.ore drastic solution needed to be applied. In comes the heavy artillery. A 1967 Ford rustic backhoe moves in for the kill. Its operator was relentless as \Man and His Machine\ dug through the roots of a young tree, Ripping up all in its way this show of strength inspired a false .consciousness through the staff of those \Men of Maintenance;\ \AHA!\ the operator decl;rred, \I found the phone lines.\ I need not .speak ' of the repair that followed that discovery. To follow such a show an equal show must follow. Out carne the eager teeth of the metal cutting circular s.aw known in Schenectady as \Unguarded Jaws,\ slicing its way through the sheath of steel in search of the troubled pipe~ After the discovery of the troubled pipe the decision was made to replace an entire section. This involved the welding of some holes \in the . earth . ' - ' . approximately ten ·feet deep surrounded by an overburdened red slat fence which seems to be experiencing stretch marks at a very early age. This is an obvi 0 us hazard, one of which I would just love to see the resulting law suit. The fact remains that steam still pours out of the hole, the tree which will die remains as a marker to the sight, and the hazard still . . · exists. Perhaps the \Men of 1 nere's that hungry backhoe. Maintenance'' find this an attractive showing of their strength. More likely, this activity would suggest, to an enrolled or prospective student, the inability that the school has in dealing with a pertinent problem. The sad fact is that this article ran last year, same time, same place. The tree that was dying is dead. The grass is gone; the mud has ren,u;ned., and the steam proudly spews into the air. And again there are . those sagging fences and that \blow it 'back into the hole\ fan. And yes; there is. that 1967 backhoe, guarding the hole. The Children still come by to play ill the boiling ditch. They come at night when they are drunk, looking for friends. Soon one will fall and burn to · death. I would hate to see that.. A Features Commentary: A ReaCtion To Violence By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS A week and a half has passed and one would think that some type of explanation would have been given to us about the violent incidents that occurred during the-weekend of \Home- coming\. Yes, we aU got the orange colored notice that Dean \'Mammola's secretary typed up on October 17, and which we received on the 20th, but I'm sure that a lot of people are not satisfied with just that. ~ If one of the incidents had not created such a \public confusion\ within Schenectady, l doubt from my .four years of experiencing the '!Union College Cover-Up\ technique, as to whether this i1;1cident would have been mentioned or not. If even a white colored notice would have been distributed to us ... Before writing this article I talked to .a lot ofstudents about A little bit of Ultra Violence what they had heard, what encounters they might have ,had, and of course, what they think of this whole situation. N~t one respqnse bared meaning less than that of disgust and disappointment. And that is indeed what the situation can be. summed up as. Paying over $17,000 per ','. \' .. p~~J .. - ~-~---- ___ , , I l ~-.. .... .. . it-:,.. ..... .t ~ I -J : ,_ L, i t.-~- .,.. __ ..,~-·- ~-----~---) ~-- .. ~ ... -:·---·_,.....,.. __ 4 - ... ~~----~-------_ ..... ___ _.;.._,,..\' __ ,_ ----~ .... - year, one would think that the h~ast that he could expect would be some kind o:f protection. I would · be irrational to suggest tl1at each person be guarded and protected, and that every inch of the campus be checked and ··secured from any illegal trespassers. But what I- am saying is that there are a lot of things that coulc:l be done; initiat4ves that should ·have be~n taken a long time ago; acts and measures that should have been established so as to . at 1eas t m1mmtze the occurapces of such attacks. Schenectady is not the safest city which one can· go to school and live in. Almost , every week within my college years here; I have heard of some type of violence plaguing the city. From petty theft, to rapes and murders. And whether we want to uphold the belief that Unidn is a beautiful ulittle community\ we must not\ distance ourselves from the reality of the fact that it is grounded and surrounded by an unsafe environment. No one refutes the bea~ly of· ou~ campus. But no one· can also Continued on page 8 I '

• i CONCORDlENSIS October 27, 1988 Page 7 FEATURE ARTIC'LES The Fine Line Between Preference and Racism By SHEILA DOE It seems: like such an obvious notion that aU people should have equality of opportunity regardless of color, gender, religion, or sexual preference .. Everyone should be entitled to fair and. humane treatment. Yet discrimination exists in all aspects of our society. Affir·mative action exists. Segregation exists. Differences exist. To what extent does racism play a role? Tuesday night on US A Toda.y ,. tbe Televis.ion Show discussed the ·changing face of raCism. There have be¢n improvements made in the past 30-· years. The interesting comment ma.de by Smith College's :presidept, a guest on that segment, was thaf there is an increasing subtlety to racism since the 50's and 60's that still exists despite Civil rights and improving legal · actions. · · Tony Harris, an expert on race relations, emphasU,es this subtlety to racism and claims it to be mt>re damaging and painful to the victims of eppte$sion. He also claims we all own it. this is a powerful statement. Gran.ted, everyone- has preferences for certain personality types but it seems that there is a fine line between these preferences and the segregation and differences that exist today. · On· Thursday, tonight, October 27, at 7:3'0 in the coUege center Tony H3tris- wiU be at Union to discuss race relations. He is here a hopeful response that our community can have a prod~cti~e forum of . discussion on such important issues as the fine line between racism and preferences. Harris will be working with a panel of ten students from different organizations on campus. Through demostration and experiments Mr. Harris works lip a powerful discussion. He will challenge aU ways of thinking. All opinions are important to this event for it to be successful for the issue addresses all of ous. Please Join us. • Direct FrQm. Sub-Saharan Africa, Chip P_,eters Deliv~rs Informed Voters at Union By JANE HACKETT / Sh·ow on Peasant Farmers Last Wednesday night SPAA s.ponsored \Know Your Candidates\. Since the media has largely covered the slander side of the presidential campaign, SPAA offered Chip Peters, who graduated from Union in 1986,. will return to the College on Friday, Nov. 4, to deliver .a t(\lk aq<f sli<J,e. show en' peasant . fariners in Sub-Saharan Africa. Peters, who spent two years in Mali as a Peace Corps ~olunteer, saw the problems of African fatnine and poverty firsthand, as he rode from village to village (on a motorcycle!) as an agricu!tural extension agent Peters' objective while in Mali was to encourage farmers, who focus mainly pn staple . grain crops such as millet and rice,. to grow vegetable crops as z ~- :£- · .. c: .. \\i'\\ ........ ....... ~ (.()a. UJQ) t:r.O: u._- well, during the slack season in between planting and harves tirtg. He learned the native language, \Bombata and lived with a Malian family. \Tne biggest problem was taste,\ he says. \They_ needed the nutrition which the vegetables could provide, ·but they just weren't _used to: the flavor.\ ' The thlk, whjcb is sponsored by the Department of Economics, will be held in the ·first-floor auditcrium of the Campus Center, on Friday, Nov. 4, at 11:3(). All are invited to attend. • . · Union students the opportunity to learn about the party's platforms so they could make more informed votes. The Republican representative was · Michael Saccario, a 1984 · Political Science graduate of Union College. He i~ now Legal Asst. to Rep.. Jim Tadisco and representative to the Upstate Bureau for George 1 Bush. Donald Ackerman, Schenectady County Legislator and member of the -Executive Committee of N.Y. State Democratic Committee, represented the Democrats. Ac'kerman spoke first P£ Tf ~ ARt YOV , ALLF:.I G HT?! \ IT LookS UkE. YOVK . NO.SE 15 St'IASHE.D 1 -rwo Of YI>V~ -r£'1!.1'11 ARE. . ~NOC.k~P 6VI J .AtlD yovR f\(<.M IS B~Okt.N! \ ff;J1 ~~ ~\DO ...... outlining the Democratic piatform. He emphasized Dukakis' committtnent to low and middle income families, the elimination of several nuclear warheads, increased federal funding of public · education, and working to abolish aprutheid in So. Africa. Saccario .presented the main theme of Bush's republican platform as \peace through strength\ indicating that this meant not just the abs.ence of war but also the existence of individual freedoms and democracies in foreign countries. Other points were in support · of SDI, a committment not to raise taxes, and limite,d federal interference in business. The audience asked questions ranging from education, to the Cold War, to campaign rhetoric. Both sides were given equal time to respond and did so frankly, amicably and often humorously. The most satisfying aspect of the evening was h.ow both men respected the intelligence of each other and the audience. The positions of each candidate were heard, without much rhetoric, mudslinging or ambiguity. •Saccario and Ackerman let the i.issues stand for themselves and 'tried to show what type of specific policies would ensue. As one student commented, \They were both so civilized, why can't the candidates be that way?\ By learning about the party platforms, Union voters have ·knowledge to predict not only 'the policies Bush and Dukakis :support but also their ~respective federal and state legislators ·who are up for reelection.·· LOOkS Llk£ _P£1E. 'S IR J P Fl N G -- AGAIN! I

/ Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, t988 FEATURE ARTICLES . . Classical Conference Held At Union By MARY JO CONLEY . If you thought you saw yotir high. school Latin teacher on campus last weekend, you weren't imagining things .. Union was h.ost to the annual conference of the Classkal Association of the· Empire State (CAES). Approximately 100 classicists from New Y mk high schools and colleges gathered to exchange ideas and to celebrate th~e 25th anni.y_ersary of CAES. The weekend conference had something . for everyone: workshops, a dramatic performance, lectures and an emporium .. Most .events were open to Union students as well as CAES members. Perhaps the most unique aspect of the. conference w·as the performance by Frank F. Fowle III, a setf-proclaim.ed. bard. In an hour-long show dedicated to \justice Mr. F()wle guided his audience through· the Iliad, culminating with the death of Hector (Book 22).. Such a performance allowed the modem audience to see wh·at the ancient one witnessed; Homer,. the author of tile Iliad, was an oral.poet who intended his work to be heard, not read. Mr. Fowle, while at times over-dramatic, was faithful to the text of the epic. He also succeeded at giving the crowd an idea of what a bard did. If oral poetry was not your forte, there was a lecture on myth and music. Robert Lenaidon, professor emeritus at Ohio State University, discussed the role mythology has in the world of music. His lecture was augmented by· the .. recordings of various artists who use myth as source material. Dr. Lenaraon showed how myth has a role in all genres of music., from opera to ml,isical comedy to rock. His talk, as well as th~ music he played, · demonstrated that classical mythology has a place in contemporary culture. . David Porter, ~president of Skidmore College, presented a talk entitled \On Entering the Real World.\ Porter, who is a classicist himself, addressed·tbe relevance of the classics in the 20th century world. He stressed that th.e classics are not a fantasy world, but function as a way of opening .u,p a stude:(l.t's outlook on the world and himself. The best :part of ·bis lectuie · was a story · ab()ut a woman who dr()ve from Colorado to Minnesota to ~sk Porter how he had mMaged to coQ1J.pt h.er son into becoming a classics major .l'he .ed11cators in the audience could certainly relate to the o;ppositioa of marty parents to a career in classiC$·. Overall, P£esident Porter was quite succe'ssful irt presenting a case for the value of th.e classics in a liberal arts ~ucation. The·emporium featuted t;exts,. books and exhibits donatel by various :members of CAES. Many of the bookS came from the personal library ()( JOlin T. UnderwOQd, professor of ·Classics· atLeheigh Univetsity, a CAliS member who recently passed aw~y. The emporium provide~ c()nference attendees with the opportunity to puchase a variety of items at irtexpenisve prices, as well as a .chance to obtain hard-to-find texts. The CAES conference was a general s\iccess. All those who attended ·nor only enjoyed. the conference, but the · Union · environment. The success of the conference was ··due .to the hard· work of eve:{}' one iri the Classics Department. The confer€mc~ ·is sure to h~ve increased the · awareness .of Union ·students Of . tl)e ·role of · the classics in · a lib'eral· lll'tS education by bringing it right into our own backyard. • \ Braving the College Center CroWds· f2 0 I 0.. UJ ...J u::: Pumpkin segregation is in.hurnane HAPPY HALLOWEEN! Violence • • • Continued from page 6 refute the fact that it is so open, that in some ways it serves as an open door invitation to unwanted visitors. Just a street away from our front and main gate, there was an incident of an attack. I am sure that not only the students, but the Administration and Security are aware of what is going on in the· city of and said, \We are more than happy to escort students from one part of the campus to the other ... \ I laughed because so many were the times that I had heard students calling security, including myself, and requesting rides, and so many times were there that they were refused. The latest \answer\ which I heard from a girl that was in North and asked for a ride to the Computer Center at around 7:00 p.m., was ! \YOU'RE TOO LAZY!!\ ' Schenectady. A child mofester has abused over five ~hildren within an extremely short period of time. Rape incidents have been occurring so frequently that one wonders if · the paths leading to the dorms, to the library, and to the dining room are safe. To my surprise, when I went to the Office of Security on Friday so as to \re-gain'; my car which had been towed away for the fourth time. nobody knew, or at least acted like they knew anything about the \broad daylight incident in front of the Old Chapel during Homecoming Weekend.\ As · well as the break-in that took place in Richmond. \Do you know this for a fact?\ they asked me. \No. but I wouldn't doubt the fact that it . happened,\ I replied. Debating . at the same time so as to justify my parking in illegal. areas, they tumed around to me , Again, this is disgusting and inexcusable. A friend of mine· told me today that she saw a security car escorting someon'e... someone who works in the Office of Security. No wonder these people don;t have time to escort us... they're too busy providing an intra-campus limousine service for themselves. And who pays for it? Who provides the capital for their pay-checks? WE DO!! I could sit for hours and rage about Administration's and Security's lack of . responsibility, but I think that · it would be meaningless for nothing would be achieved. Hence, I propose that guards be placed in every entrance and gate existing within Union. Some of ypu may laugh when . I By LISA CHERANDE It is 11:25 .a.m. on a Friday. If you were to walk into the · College\Center right now, you would be overwhelmed by the looming mass of people . huddled by the entrance and the .mailboxes. If you were .smart, you would, at this point, tum around and leave. Of course, if you were really smart. you probably ·wouldn't have meandered in the general vicinity of the College Center at all, but taken an alternate route to the Science · and Engineering building. But you're not that smart. You're the typical Union College student, ~till half asleep and recovering from Thursday evening's forum of events. So you take the plunge and walk through the big glass doors. But going to the College Center at 11:26 is not quite the same as going at 2:00 in the afternoon, during the off hours. The ~econd you go to reach for the door handle, someone coming from inside opens the same door, and hits you in th.e reading this for the simple reason that if somebody has the intention of getting into the campus he will find a way. But I do believe that having some of people standing in front of the entrances will act as a deterrent. Students, themselves, can participate in helping out. You would be surprised with the response that I have already gotten from a number of students who are willing to participate in making Union a safer place. Ort this final note, let me end by saying that not only will we be better off, but so will the school. If nothing is done, both faces of the school will be destroyed. Attempts in trying to preserve its exceptional reputation as an academic institution will become extremely difficult. And as a business it :will have to .suffer great losses, for the victims will not restrain themselves from suing the 1 'Business of Onion.\ 8 face. Granted, the doors are made of glass, but you inust remember that is only 11:27' and ev_en though yoll nave already been to one of your classes, you .are still not completely conscious, Once you have recovered from your first trauma,. you enter :the sardine-pack.ed mass · of students.· It is overwhelming at first. You think about turning around and forgetting about spending the 20 minute break. in between classes in the College Center, and opt for the freezing sub-zero weather. It is far easier to stay inside though because you would be fighting. the crowd if you tried to escape now - 11:28 and ticking. Now you make you.- way· towards the mailboxes. There is the usual crowd of people waiting in liae for their packages .who succ'l.essfully deter yqu from reachtng your mailbox for a few minutes. When you finally make it to your mailbox and unscramble your combination, it is 11:32 and you find notlting, but the \black hole\. It's not going to · be a g<>Od {lay-you didn't even get any junk mail! · Fortunately, you see you-r friend '~Joo\ who is getting an \A\ in eeoliomics, and you push yo11r way towards the tables \Vbere he and his \fliiends'\ are mulling over a cup of c<Jf'fee from.J:he Dutch Hol!ow. In the meantime, you notice some more of your friends. Pr(;ltty soon, 11:34, you realize that most everyone you see is someone you know. It must be that nearly the entire campus bas just had or is about to have a class. The twenty minute break is not nearly long enough to walk back to your room or do anything substantial. And it is too long to \take y()ut time\ walking to class. Alas. what must we do. but brave the crowds of the College Center for a twenty niinute fight to obtain our mail and chat with our \friends\? Perfect exc11se for another cup of' coffee to wake yourself up,if you haveD•t done so by now. Well, it's 11:3 7 - time for class! • ·······-··· fJ'Iiere is a gfwst wlio stri/(es on · :J-{a[{oween. . '-. Slie waits in tlie gardens. Slie dies at c£awrt- a,eeeeeeeeee

§ I 0.. L.1J ::::! u. Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 FEATURE ARTICLES Clas·sical Conference Held At Union By MARY JO CONLEY If you thought you saw your high school Latin teacher on campus last weekend, you wereR't imagining things. U A ion was host to the annual conference of the Classical Association of the· Empire State (CAES). Approximately 100 classicists from New York high schools and colleges gathered to exchange ideas and to celebrate the 25th anniversary of CABS. The weekend conference had something for everyone: workshops, a dramatic performance, lectures and an emporium. Most events were open to Union. students as well as CABS members. Perhaps the most unique aspect of the conference was the performan.ce by Frank F. Fowle III, a self-proclaimed bard. In an hour~long show dedicated to \justice Mr. Fowle guided his audience through the Iliad, culminating with the death of Hector (Book 22). Such a performance allowed the modem audience to see what the ancient oDe wibnessed. Homer, the author of the Iliad, was an oral poet who intended his work to be beard, not read. Mr. Fowle, while at times over-dramatic, was faithful to the text of the epic. He also succeeded at ,giving the crowd an idea of what a bard did. If oral poetry was not your forte, there was a lecture on myth and music. Robert Pumpkin segregation is in.humane HAPPY HALLOWEEN! Violence • • • Continued from page 6 refute the fact that it is so open, that in some ways it serves as an open door invitation to unwanted visitors. Just a street away from our front and main gate, there was an incident of an attack. I am sure that not only the students, but the Administration and Security are aware of what is going on in the city of Schenectady. A child molester has abused over five children within an extremely short period of time. Rape incidents have been occurring so frequently that one wonders if the paths leading to the donns, to the library, and to the dinin~ room are safe. To my surprise, when I went to the Office of Security on Friday so as to \re-gain\ my car which had been towed away for the fourth time, nobody knew, or at least acted like they knew anything about the \broad daylight incident in front of the Old Chapel during Homecoming Weekend.\ As well as the break-in that took place in Richmond. \Do yoll know this for a fact?\ they asked me. \No but I wouldn't doubt the fact that it happened,\ I replied. Debating . at the same time so as to justify my parking in Hlegal . areas, they turned around to me . and said, \We are more than happy to escort students from one part of the campus to the other ... \ I laughed because so many were the times that I had heard students calling security, inc! uding myself, and requesting rides, and so many times were there that they were refused. The latest \answer\ which I heard from a girl that was in North and asked for a ride to the Computer Center at around 7:00 p.m., was \YOU'RE TOO LAZY!!\ Again, this is disgusting and inexcusable. A friend of mine· told rne today that she saw a security car escorting someone... someone who works in the Office of Security. No wonder these people don't have time to escort us ... they're too busy providing an intra-campus limousine service for themselves. And who pays for it? Who provides the capital for their pay-checks? WE DO!! I could sit for hours and rage about Administration's and Security's lack of responsibility, but I think that it would be meaningless for nothing would be achieved. Hence, I propose that guards be placed in every entrance and gate existing within Union. Some of you may laugh when Lenardon, professor emeritus at Ohio State University, discussed the role mythology has in the world of music. His lecture was augmented by· the recordings of various artists who use myth as source material. Dr. Lenardon showed how rnyth has a role in all genres of music, from opera to musical comedy to rock. His talk, as well as the music he played, demonstrated that classical mythology has a place in contemporary culture. David Porter, president of Skidmore Col:lege, presented a tallc entitled \On Entering the Real World.\ Porter, who is a classicist himself, addressed the relevance of the classics in the 20th. century world. He stressed that the classics are not a fantasy world, but function as a way of opening up a student's outlook on the world and himself. The best part of his lecture was a story about a woman who drove from Colorado to Minnesota to ask Porter how he had managed to corrupt her son into becoming a classics major. The educators in the audience could certainly relate to the opposition 0f many parents to a career in classics. Overall, President Porter was quite successful in presenting a case for the value of the classics in a liberal arts education. The emporium featured texts, books and exhibits donated by various members of CAES. Many of the books came from the personal library of John T. Underwood, professor of Classics at Leheigh Univetsity, a CABS member who recently passed away. The emporium provided conference attendees with the opportunity to puchase a variety of items at inexpenisve prices,. as well as a chance to obtain hard-to-find texts. The CAES conference was a general success. All those who attended not only enjoyed the conference, but the U nio11 · environment. The success of the conference was due to the hard work of everyone in the Classics Department. The conference is sure to have increased the awareness of Union students of the role of the classics in a liberal arts education by bringing it right mto our own backyard. B Braving the College Center Crowds By LISA CHERANDE It is 11:25 a.m. on a Friday. If you were to walk into the College Center right now, you would be overwhelmed by the looming mass of people huddled by the entrance and the mailboxes. If you were smart, you would, at this point, turn around and leave. Of course, if you were really smart, you probably wouldn't have meandered in the general vicinity of the College Center at all, but taken an alternate route to the Science and Engineering building. But you're not that smart. You're the typical Union College student, still half asleep and recovering from Thursday evening's forum of events. So you take the plunge and walk through the big glass doors. But going to the College Center at 11:26 is not quite the same as going at 2:00 in the afternoon, during the off hours. The second you go to reach for the door handle, someone coming from inside opens the same door, and hits you in the reading tbis for the simple reason that if somebody has the intention of getting into the campus he will find a way. But I do believe that having some of people standing in front of the entrances will act as a deterrent. Students, themselves, can participate in helping out. You would be surprised with the response that I have already gotten from a number of students who are willing to participate in making Union a safer place. On this final note, let me end by saying that not only will we be better off, but so will the school. If nothing is done, both faces of the school will be destroyed. Attempts in trying to preserve its exceptional reputation as an academic institution will become extremely difficult. And as a business it will have to suffer great losses, for the victims will not restrain themselves from suing the \Business of Union.\ • face. Granted, the doors are made of glass, but you must remember that is only 11:27, and even though you have already been to one of your classes, you are still 11ot completely conscious. Once you have recovered from your first trauma, you enter the sardine-packed mass of students. It is overwhelming at first. You think about turning around and forgetting about spending the 20 minute break in between classes in the College Center, and opt for the freezing sub-zero weather. It is far easier to stay inside though because you would be fighting the crowd if you tried to escape now - 11:28 and ticking. Now you make your way towards the mailboxes. There is the usual crowd of people waiting in line for their packages who successfully deter you from reaching your mailbox for a few minutes. When you finally make it to your mailbox and unscramble your combination, it is 11:32 and you find nothing, but the \black hole\. It's not going to be a good day-you didn't even get any junk mail! Fortunately, you see your friend \Joe\ who is getting an \A\ in economics, and you push your way towards the tables where he and his \friends\ are mulling over a cup of coffee from the Dutch Hollow. In the meantime, you notice some more of your friends. Pretty soon, 11:34, you realize that most everyone you see is someone you know. It must be that nearly the entire campus has just had or is about to have a class. The twenty minute break is not nearly long enough to walk back to your room or do anything substantial. And it is too long to \take your time\ walking to class. Alas, what must we do, but brave the crowds of the College Center for a twenty minute fight to obtain our mail and chat with our \friends\? Perfect excuse for another cup of coffee to wake yourself up,if you haven't done so by now. Well, it's 11:37 - time for class! • eeeeeeeeeee %ere is a ghost wlio stri~s on j{a[[oween. Slie waits in tlie gardens. Slie dies at dawn. ., ••••••••• .- '·· ; I 1 1 ' '

CONCORDIENSIS October 27, J!,,,'8 Pag~ 9 HALLOWEEN VISIT 'rO KINGSWAY 'ARMS NURSING HOME Sunday. Qctober 30th. 1-3 Meet in Costume CCI p.m. Transporation provided Call 6087 for further information RRE YOU lOOKING ·fOR R SUMMER JDB? ·Learn to us:e the hidden joll market, establish conta,cts, and do informationa:l interuiew:ing along w i'th «;»ther. strategies Which U:.JlU help !JiO'U find 8 S·llrRJ!ler job. Uetermine the types of jobs that will best suit your needs. • October 31, Monday. Nouember 1, Tuesday . ' ~. 4:30pm 7:00pm 4:30pm 7:30pm CDC Dauidson Lounge CDC FoH Lounge Sponsored by the Career Deueloprnent center VOLUNTEERS NEEDE.D FOR OXFA·M FAST Can you help s:ign people up for the fast for 45 minutes on Wednesday, November 2 or Thurday, November 3 in West or the Upperc.lass Dining HaH? ~we still need workers! Sign-up sheets are in the Relig'io.us Programs Lobby (404 GG). ~]' ~·;- . OXFAM NEEDS YOU! l4ow ~ ve.. help LjC:V ? ~w~~ THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT CAROL WEISS DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY UNION COLLEGE ''Effects of Stress and Control on l'm.mune Function in Humans\ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1988 BAILEY HALL Room 207 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 HOST: R. Olberg .Box 9-C *** *** . Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington, DC 2006 Telephone 202-395-4831 Union College Union College sophomores inter-ested In a career In government service at the federal, state or local level are invite<! to apply for a I 989 Hany S. Truman Scholarship. Established byCtmgress in 1975, the Harry S.1'ruman $cholarshlp Foundaflon operates an ong<Jing educaUonalscholarship pro~ram designed to provide opportunities for outstanding U.S. studen1s wiU1 polentla:lleadershlp abllity to prepare for careers in government service. In April 1989. fue foundation will award 105 Scholarships nationally. 111e DEADUNE for all 1989 applications Is Decel'lleber 1 , 1989 Union College can nominate U1ree students for the 1989 competlllon . The Scholarship award covets expense;<; up to $7;000 per year for the jt.Ja!or, the senior, and two years of graduate study. To he eligiable, a student must be a full-time sophomore working toward or planning lo pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a \B\ average or equivalent, stand In ll!e upper fo\.lrth of the class, and be a U.S. citizen or U.S. national heading toward a career In government Interested students should submit a letter of application, a statement of career plans, a list l>f past public-service activities or oU1er'leadership positions, a current transcript, and a 600-word essay discussing a .public policy i:ssue of their choice to Prof. Charles Tidmarch. Trun1an Scholarship Faculty Representative Soc. Sci. 216 . l>y Novemember 10.

' I~ . ~ i CONCORDIENSlS October 27, B.,'8 Page 9 HALLOWEEN VISIT TO KINGSWAY ARMS NURSING HOME Sunday, October 30th 1-3 Meet in Costume CC 1 p.m. Transporation provided Call 6087 for further information RHE YOU lOOK I N,G FOR A SUMMER JOB? Learn to use the hidden job market, establish contacts, and clo informational interviewing along with other strategies rnhich UJUI help you find a summer job. Oetermine the types of jobs 1he1 will best suit your needs. October 31, Monday 4:30pm CDC 7:00 pm Dauidson Lounge Nouember 1, Tuesday 4:30 pm CDC 7:30 pm FoH Lounge Sponsored by the Career Development Center VOLUNTEERS NEEDED FOR OXFAM FAST Can yoLJ help sign people up for the fast for 45 minutes on Wednesday, November 2 or Thurday, November 3 in West or the Upperclass Dining Hall? We still need workers! Sign-up sheets are in the Rel,igious Programs Lobby (404 CC). OXFAM NEEDS YOU! . -:-::.( ' :. _,- - 1-b.o ~ ve.. help ~OJ ? ~t{/~~ THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB PRESENT CAROL WEISS DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHOLOGY UNION COLLEGE \Effects of Stress and Control on Immune Function in Humans\ WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 1988 BAILEY HALL Room 207 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 HOST: R. Olberg Box 9-C *** ****' *** Hany S. Truman Scholarship Foundation 712 Jackson Place, NW, Washington. DC 2006 Telephone 202-395-4831 Union College Union College sophomores Interested ln a rareer in govemrnPnt sc1vice at the federal, state or local level are lnvikd to apply for a 1989 Hany S. Truman Scholarship. Established by Congress in 1975. the Harry S. Truman Srhobr,.hip Foundation operates an ongoing educational scholarship program designed to provide opportunities for outstanding U.S. student<; with potential leadership ability to prepare for t:areeis in go\\e!lll!H'lll seJVice. In April 1989, the foundation will award 105 Sc-hnlarsl1ips nationally. The DEADLINE for ail 1989 applic-ations 1\ Decemeber 1, 1989 Union College can nominate three students for U1e 1989 competition ' The Scholarship award covers expenses up to $7.000 pe-r ye-ar for the junior, the senior, and two years of graduate study. To be ellgiable, a student must be a full-time sophomore working toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a \13'' average or equivalent, stand In the upper fourth of the rlass, and be a U.S. citizen or U.S. national heading toward a career in government Interested students should submit a letter of applic-ation, a statement of career plans, a list of past public-service activities or other leadership positions, a current transcript, and a 600-word essay discussing a public policy issue of U1elr choice to Prof. Charles Tidmarch. Truman Scholarship Faculty Representative Soc. Sci. 216, by Novemember 10. ****

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS Octobet 27, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES All the World Produc;es Wine, New York State Included By NICOLAS BOCH For ages, wine was considered the privilege of a few European nations. Only the wineries with names that sounded 1ik.e Chateau Lafite- Rothschild, D'Angelo or Kloster Macherrt could have their bottles served at· the finest tables throughout the world. In the past decade, however, there has been a veritable explosion of development in both quality and styles of wine on a truly international basis. T'{)day, for example, in a fine restaurant in the Bahamas,. French wines are listed along with California wines at prices reaching one thousand dollars. Twenty years ago, this statement would have been perceived as a bad joke by the highly European dominated wine world. 0' \ F qtlottllr l >-- ---·-- ffi 5 en ~o· ~ _. -------------t-r-r..~ ~ w f-,. '\0' §5 -----·--- 8 Because the climate plays the most influential role in affecti11g the quality of the output, wines cannot be produced just anywhere. The requirements to grow vines that will provide grapes suitable for winemaking are not as strict as those required by Thomas Welcll in the production of his famous grape juice. The average temperature needed should not be higher than 66 F in the summer and lower than 30 Fin the winter. As well, 27 inches of rain and 1500 hours of sunshine per year would be ideal for the vine. Other important requirements as the aspect of the vineyard and its soil reduces even more the places in. the world where wine can be produced naturally. They are the reason why all the wine-producing areas of the Notice: world are located between the 30 and 50 latitude in both hemispheres. However, there are still a number of smaller winemaking places closer to the equator. California and Argentina, along with European nations, are the ,places that best meet all these requirements. It is not surprising therefore that their wines can compete with the best European wines according to international standards. Apart from the well known wine-producing areas, there are a large variety of smaller places where vines are grown for winemaking. Manhattan and Brooklyn, both have their own wine producers: Schapiro's Winery -and Monarch Wine Company are produCing Kosher wines. New York State has over thirty wine producers: Benmarl Wine Company LTD located in Marlboro is its most Wine Making Areas In The World. successful one. Canandaigua Wine Company in Canandaigua (the \chosen place\ in indian) produces over 8 million cases (720,000 hectolitres). Ontario is the largest wine- producing area in Canada. The Chateau des Charmes is considered by many as the finest winery in the country. The wines of Northern America are usually very sweet because of the rough climatic conditions. Australia's exports of wine account for more than ten percent of the world sales. It exports mosdy to Sweden and the United States. Penfolds Wines produces the Grange Hermitage, which is the most famous Australian wine. There is one sparkling \methode cliampenoise\ wine The Soviet Union is not a Term Abroad in the usual sense. It is an exchange program limited to two studvnts per year. Those who do take part must have completed at least three equivalent years- <;>f college Russian or speak, read and write any other language spoken in the Soviet Union. _ made in India. It is said to have an extraordinarily European character. However the production wine in the country is so small that· no statistics are repoFted. China and Japan have a limited wine industry as welL Su.ntory is one of Japan's ' ..largest wine companies. It produces quality wines that are either pure Japanese or blends from several countries. This article would not be complete without saying that wines are also produced in the \Soviet Union,. Greece, Crete, Turkey. South Africa and Chile. It is with .an open- minded spirit and tolerance for novelty that these various wines should be tasted? It is not the label that gives quality to the wine but the wine itself that makes its owh reputation. Wines, contain in their flavors· the specific charms of their own oountries. 1'hey were made to contribute to the pleasures of life, but as all the goad things in life, they should not ·he abused. • International Float Congratulations For \MOST ORl~INAL\ Award' I ISU TABLE FRIDAY __ 12:30 TO 1:30. International Exchange By MICHAEL GREENBERG Eating, drinking, aancingand talking the night away, the International Student Union · (ISU) held its fourth annual reception October 10 in Milano Lounge. President and Mrs. Morris and sev·eral faculty members also attended. Aside from the food and Conversation, the reception fucluded a dance session in which students demonstrated dances native to their countries. Gevotk Nakhapetyan, a Soviet exchange student, wowed . . onlookers as he performed an Armenian wedding dance, Nakhapetyan explained that in the dance, the bride diops her handkerchief for the groom to pick up. Playing the role of the groom. Nakhapetyan danced around in a circlel pemonstrating the dance's kicks and steps. Amazingly~ h:e dropped to the floor with his legs spread apart and lifted the handkerchief with his teeth. Russian, MeJ<.ican and Greek delicasies contributed to the international .flavor of the ·evening, while American punch reminded guests exactly where they were dining. Junior Laura Calvi, lSU Chairman, welcomed members a11d non- members to the informal evening. Conversation was light in most circles. Chinese Says Avto-6igineishvili, an speaking. with Indians, exchange student from the Americans speaking with Soviet Union, \G.evork's dance Soviets, Greeks speaking with was just amazing; it was gread Italians; Milano Lounge had However, the floor was been converted into Union's shaking, and I was afraid that it own version of the United might collapse!\ Gigineishvili Nations. comments that in Georgia, his ··overall, I found the dinner native republic~ a dance like both exciting and Nakhapetyan's is not popular. enlightening,\ says junior He notes that Nakhapetyan's Ananth Mudgil, .a non~member dance has its roots. in some of ISU. Asks Mudgil,. \How Armenian communities around pften does one have the Tbilisi, Georgia, the republic's opportunity to speak with capital. people from all over the world Other· dances performed in one room? One minute, I during the ISU dinner fnclude was speaking to a Chinese Anthee Carassavas' provocative guy,, and the next (minute), I Greek dance and Primavera was 'asking whether it really Salva Arvide and Syhnove · rains. all the time in London.\ Smeets' Latin American dance. Mudgilbelieves that the dinner ~ays sophomore Hans was an event that \definitely ... Schwarz, \I felt (the reception} -· encouraged\ Union students to was a fantastic opportunity for join the ISU. · intercultural dialogue.\ • INTERN.ATIONAL QUESTION · OF THE WEE.K B)' ANTHEE CARASSAVAS ulf YOU COULD LIVE ANYWHERE IN . THE WORLD WHER.E WOULD IT BE?\ ' Kevin lrland (89) - A Japanese villa overlooking the Inland Sea, near Miyajima. Anthony Vrondissis (90) - On the most peautiful island in the world. My home island of Andros in the Aegean Sea in Greece. · Jay Freeland (91) .. In a lakefront house in 'the Northern part of Maine. Elise Foody (91) - A four bedroom cobblestone house with a white picket fence and an apple tree in the front yard in Arlington,. Virginia. · Fiona Shukri (89.) - A beach-front house in Monterey California. · ~ John Morgan (&9) • Given an optimal lottery number . year after year, Webster. · Greg Goetz. (89) • N where! I long to be a resident of · Schenectady for the rest of my life. _ Kevin Honikel (90) • Amish country is the place for me. Just give me a fungus carpet and a cow named Jeremiah, and I'll be happy. · LANGUAGE TABLES FRENCH-Monday 12:45-1:45- SPANISH-.·. Tuesday 11:45-12:45 RUSSIAN AND GERMAN- Wednesday 12:45-1:45 , ITALIAN- Thursday 11:45-12:45 JAPANESE-Monday 12:45-1:45 , .• ' All Language Tables 'will be\·in the College Center Upperclassmeil's Dining HaiL Anyone not on th_e meal· plan can buy lunch downstairs in the Pub anld,bring it up 1 or \brown·bag~ it.

CONCORDIENSlS October 27, 1988. Page 11 INTERNATlONAL FEATURES THI'S, WEEK lN THLE WOR:LO PlO 'Favors' Jordan'~ Ag~nda By ·sHELLEY SZYMKO l . . .(1 0118- 10/24) I Btitain: Britain has banned broadcast ;interViews with members of. the Irish Republican Army and Catholic and Protestant groups involved in the conflict ih Northern · · Ireland. This action bas been criticized as censorship, but the London government $tated that this pro:hibition ·was necessary to limit .propaganda outlets for terrorists. lndia: Two air crashes in India killed 164 people. One crash in the western city of Ahmadabad occurred when . ' ·· an Indian Airlines jetliner attempted to ,land in heavy fog. · The o•her crash took place in eastern IAdia when a propeller plane .. slammed into a hill. Poland: Political sources info.rrned the .Reuters news · · agency that Polish leaders and the Solidarity trade Union have delayed the start of talks. Internal strife among the Warsaw officials over whether to legalize the union again . may have played a par:t in the thwarting of the talks. ·The Caribbean: Hurricane Joan swept across the ' Caribbean on what forecasters said was an unusual path. ·. The strength of the hurricane brought flooding and left approXimately 50 people dead in Northern Colombia. Haiti: Thre.e .officers, including two members of the presidential guard in Port-au~Prince failed in a coup . attempt against the new .government of Lt. General . Pr_9sper Avril. Details. of the failed attempt are no.t known. Soviet Union: A Soviet policy adviser urged top off.icials to drop their strict secretive policies and called for development of a parliamentary committee to oversee defense. Also. a Kremlin informer said that Gorbachev lacks a deputy as Communist Party chief, suggesting that Yegor Ligachev has lost his post. . :By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS On July 31, 1988, King Hl}sseirt of Jordan announced in a televised speech his intention to sever ties with the West Bank. The statement spurred a sense of \confusion\ or better. an atmosphere .of perplexity within the political arenas of botb the Palestinians and the Israelis as they tried · to decryptify the king's hidden · objective. In. specific, if the statement was to be interpreted ,ifl a literal sense, then what would be implied would be a mere recognition or better \agreement\ to the title which the PLO has inherited as tbe ,;sole representative of the Palestinina people.\ But, one then would be reminded of two important features that would make this assumption self- cpntradictory. These aie (a) the ethnic composition of the Jordanian state, and (b) the 1974· Pan.Arab Convention in Morocco. In par.ticular, two- thirds of Jmdari's population is Palestinian; of Palestinian origin. Hence, to let the PLO assume complete \authority\ over the issue of Palestine and the respective \measures\ that should be taken: by each Palestinian so as to serve in the meth!)dology of Armed Struggle of the al-Fatah, would be detrimental to the Hashemite Dynasty and its influence on the West Bank. The al-Fatah, which is the primary cell through which the umbrella of the PLO developed, would possibly lead the Palestinians to another \Black September\ of the early 70's in which the Hashemite Dynasty was forced to suppress violently the uprisings of tile Palestinians, so as to maintain its survival. Tpe 1974 Pan-Arab Convention, in continuation, served to reflect the King's interest,. when a proposal was made to claim the PLO as the \Sole Representative of Tile Palestinian People.\ All of the Arab countries agreed Union Graduate of 1986,. Chip Peters, will return t9 the ' College-on Fri_day, Nov. 4 to ·deliver a talk and slide show on his :experiencerin Mali as a peace corps volunteer. Peters' objective while ln . MaU was to. encourage farmers, who focus mainly on stapl~ grain crops such as millet and rice; to grow veg_etables crops as w,eH, during the slack ·', · season in between planting ana harvesting. He learned the native language, Bombara,. and lived with a Malian family. ·\The biggest problem was taste, .. he says. \They needed . the nutrition which the vegetables could provide, but they · just weren't used to the flavor.\ -. WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES CALL 393-0697 unanimously; exoept Jordan which cast an abstained vote. {Note that whatever disagreements may !e~ist between Jordan and the PLO, the first bas granted and continues to grant extreme support for the goal of liberating Palestine). Furthermore, the secon.d interpretation was that the King's announcement was oriented towards a desire to attract and re-address the question of Palestine. Indeed one can claim the time in which Hussein decided to make this speech was significant. Both, Israel and, most important, the United States were undergoing preparations . for their respective national elections. Jlussein, in short, might have been interested in trying to get an early statement by the candidates on the respective policies that they would pursue for the future peace talks in the Middle East; something which the American presidential campaigns had yet to be addressed; and, in my personal opinion, still haven't. The third and final interpretation, was that of making an effort by the king to \clear his agenda\ as I like to call it. In specific, with so maqy disagreements prevailing in the methodology of \liberating Palestine\ between the Jordanians and the PLO, the King might have been seeking to simply understand what the FLO's stand was toward Jordan. That is, if indeed the PLO wanted the King to have an active part in their struggle, then they would have to formally \invite\, acknowledge and accept him as a participant and co-protector of the Palestinian cause. In short, the statement might have revealed a desire to \clear the .slate\ and begin a more progressive and cooperative · relation between Jordan and the PLO. And if such a stand would be accepted by the PLO, then the \agenda\ would strive toward pushing. for Peace Talks with Israel and the United States. If not, then the PLO would have to deal with the situation by itself as the \sole representative of the Palestinina cause.\ Now almost four months after the king's announcement pertaining to the options that it offered the PLO, we see that Arafat has picked up the most \favored\ o1:f;; reconciliation with Jorclan. and an orientation directed toward Peace talks. The necessity to place the word 'favored' in quotes is important because, in my personal opinion, no \lee-way\ is given to the Palestinian initiative by the Arabs. Throughout the organization's evolution, it has always been dependent on other Arab countries. The constant oscillations noticed in its policies toward Israel reflect not only this binding or better, depending nature, but it also can be viewed as a mirror of those conflicting policies prevalent within· the Arab political world. In other words, if the PLO does indeed want to survive it has to play on both sides .of the Arab court pertaining to the issue of Palestine. To be even more specific, the PLO is the ball which the Arab countries play with. And the only thing that it wants, is for it to be constantly iri motion,. and in the air, for it fears the possibility of \deflating\; becoming extinct. So now, we see the ball in the court of the · \Pro Negotiation\ team. On Saturday, October 22, the PLO leader Y asir Arafat was accompanied by President Hosni Mubarek of Egypt to Jordan so as to seek a critically timed· reconciliation with Hussein, in advance of Israel's general elections next month. In specific,· the officials' concerted efforts to help Israel's Foreign Minister, Shimon Peres, win the November 1, parliamentary elections. It should be stated that Peres has pledged to convene an international peace cnference, at which Jordan, and primarily the PLO would be represented so as to \setttle\ the Middle E.ast conflict. Prime Minister Ytzhak Shamir of the hard- lined Likud bloc, has opposed the convention of such a conference, as well as refuses to consider territorial concessions in the West Bank or in the Gaza Strip in return to peace. Unfortunately- in my opinion- he is leading the election polls. • The Department o'f Sociology and Anthropology Announces its Third Annual Lewis Henry Morgan Colloquia The Fall term speakers are: NOVEMBER 10 Dr. Stephen Zeh:r. Visiting Assistant Professor of Sociology \Interpretative Flexibility and the Professional Interests of Scientists in the Acid Rain Controversy\ 3:30 -. TRACY ROOM (SS 213) Please contact Martha Huggins, chair of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology (X6292)

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1!)88 . C!!111t0lrbirnsis Follnded at Union Co.llege 1877 ----- False . Illusions Union dropped its SAT admissions requirement last year. The applicant pool increased 13%. On the surface, it seems that Union has only to benefit from such a change. By drawing a larg~r number of applicants, the College appears more selective. By promoting the 'liberal arts ideal' and offering high school seniors alternatives in the average • college admission requirements, the College has drawn a wider appeal.· But how has this affected its credibility within the academic community? A recent study of American colleges by U.S. News and World R:eport ranked the top 25 Hberal arts colleges in the nation. Hamilton made the top 25 .. So did Colgate, along with Bowdoin, Vassar, Colby ... Union did not. It looks like U.S. News & World Report failed to recognize the sweeping changes that Union has made, one of which was the admissions dropping of SA Ts. It has failed to consider the jump in the College's endowment and changes in Administration policies. Or . havethey? . \America's Best Colleges;' (U.S. News & World· Report, Octoer 10, 1988) listed the five \critical academic areas 11 that it used to compile the rankings for the 141 national liberal arts colleges. They were selectivity (acceptance rates), faculty quality (student- . to-faculty ratio, salaries), resources (college · endowment), retention (attrition rates), and academic reputation (\a survey of college presidents, deans, and admissions officers\). Perhaps the harsh realilty needs to hit certain _ members of the Union community. College. governance policies are not as successful as they seem. The Morris Administration initiatives have attempted to fulfill the five requirements on which surveys, such as this one, base their ranking, and thereby incraease credibility. Motions have been made to increase faculty salaries. SA Ts hve been dropped to increase the applicant pool. New undergraduate requirements are about to be enforced. . But it is exactly here where the fault lies. Governance at Union offers superficial, short-run answers. Instead of building for a better academic environment geared to attract faculty, Union has only responded by offering faculty more money--an incentive that seems rather weak considering most professors did not choose their profession with high ambitions of affluence. Instead of focusing marked . improvements in academic quality and educational resources--the true source of applicant attraction, Union has responded by dropping the SAT thereby increasing the applicant pool making our selectivity status 'look better.' Instead of stressing 'classroom' quality and rigorous studies, Union has increased course requirements forgetting the fact that a good education starts in the classroom. Union was once a member of the top 25. And while U.S. News & World Report's survey should not be taken as God-given truth, it serves as yet another indicator that \something is rotten in ·the state of Denmark.\ Governance at Union needs to competently assess its goals as a liberal arts college and its responsibility of tackling college issues with a long- tetm perspective. The priorities of a higher institution of education have been put on the back burner for fast and drastic 'facelift-like' improvements. The true test of whether an improvement has proved its worth is reached by asking oneself how has this improved the level of education that students should have reached by their senior year. Are graduates leaving Union with the skills and qualities that they should be leaving with? Have they earned their diploma? Regardless of outside surveys and rankings, it owes its students a quality education, no~ pretensions of· increased credibility and reputation. Take steps to improve the College with this forefront in the minds of the decision makers, and recognition will ultimately follow. LETTERS : .. \ Brotherhood Actions Ch~llenged To ~e Editors: I was deeply saddened to see the editorials of Mr. Chidsey Dickson come to an end: I want to congratulate his efforts in making all of us more aware of the problems associated with the Greek system and how these problems can affect innocent v:ictims. I can only speak for myself and the problems which I know of. I was extremely shocked to hear ofan incident tht occurred in 1987, during my sophomore year. When I frrstheard of one · specific gang rape, I couldn't believe my ears especially because the fraternity where it occurred was one in which I had frequently visited. When I questioned several btothrs at this house.afew had nothing to say except that they were not involved,. while others were · depp,ly troubled by what had happened. They, too, could not understand how such a hotrible thing could've happened in - . their house. 1~ bothered me · held reponsible in a court of\ because I was friends with la.w. In· fact, they were follnd- several members of this house guilty. I do riot know the legal and I kept wondering how they reality of this .. - I am not .. could contain themselves and acquainted with the law. Tile not divulge the awful things point is, these men cheered ancl that- they knew. I, too, feel screamed as a woman was g.uilty for not speaking up being horribly brutalized, they . sooner. My. h·esitation condoned the criminal emanated from. my knowledge behavior. In a .similar vein,. the of the incident being 1 second silence of an entire hand', tllaUs, I was told by a organization concerning the. member of the house who had wrongs committed also · also heard of the news 'second condones the critne. hand'. • . t do :not s_!iy all fraternity The end of my silence was men are . bad. I would be a triggered by a film called, it 'The hyprocite for I know many Accused;' a movie whic\1 I fraternity men, including encourage aU to see. This fllm members of this partic;ular was about a btutal gang rape house; to be quality people. where the victim, as so often What I am trying to say is that. in our society, was held some have allowe.d the system responsible for the crime. te dete:hnine th.eir morality. Is Being drunk is not a crime. \brotherhood\ more important Being drunk and flirtatious is thtt.n choosing right over not a crime. But rape is a . wrong? If so, isn't~ this a: crime. . . ,dangerous vow to ptake? Ill the film, thpse men who Thank you, solicited the crime-- those men Katherille J. Gaffney, who cheered on the rape were Class of '89; · UNION COLLEGE HOSTS AIDS CONFERENCE ·FOR COMMUNITY Union College invites the community to a free, one day conference on AlPS. It will take place on thursday, November 3 on the schenectady campus. The keynote adress at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel Will be given by Dr. Richard Golas by ·of the university of Massachusetts. In the aftemoon, participants can choose from four different seminars. They Will take place from 1:30 - 3:30 PM. In_the College Center. For more information, call370-6241. That's 370-6241. Errata Due to a printing error, last week's letter, \Dickson's Fraternity Challenge Ends,\ omitted a subordinate clause in the last part of the third paragraph. The excerpt should have read: Acting In Its role, the institution must often answer these criticms; defend itself against invalid c.riticisms (and say why they are Invalid) and act on the valid criticisms in order to improve itself. Critics might be seen to work against institutions, but, in fact they work with 1hem. ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE • CONCORDI·ENSIS dFFICE BY 4:00 PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSlS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL N-OT BE ACCEPTED. - - - U1 in .z a) is T n. b v ·~ v I

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 Oivnrorbtrnsis Founded at Un'ion College 1877 ------ False Illusions Union dropped its SAT admissions requirement last year. The applicant pool increased 13%. On the surface, it seems that Union has only to benefit from such a change. By drawing a larger number of applicants, the College appears more selective. By promoting the 'liberal arts ideal' and offering high school seniors alternatives in the average college admission requirements, the CoUege has drawn a wider appeal. But how has this affected its credibility within the academic community? A recent study of American colleges by U.S. News and World Report ranked the top 25 liberal arts colleges in the nation. Hamilton made the top 25. So did Colgate, along with Bowdoin, Vassar, Colby ... Union did not. It looks like U.S. News & World Report fai1ed to recognize the sweeping changes that Union has made, one of which was the admissions dropping of SATs. It has failed to consider the jump in the College's endowment and changes in Administration policies. Or have they? \America's Best Colleges\ (U.S. News & World Report, Octoer 10, 198&) listed the five \critical academic areas\ that it used to compile the rankings for the 141 national liberal arts colleges. They were selectivity (acceptance rates), faculty quality (student- to-faculty ratio, salaries), resources (college endowment), retention (attrition rates), and academic reputation (\a survey of college presidents, deans, and admissions officers\). Perhaps the harsh realilty needs to hit certain members of the Union community. College governance policies are not as successful as they seem. The Morris Administration initiatives have attempted to fulfill the five requirements on which surveys, such as this one, base their ranking, and thereby incraease credibility. Motions have been made to increase faculty salaries. SATs hve been dropped to increase the applicant pool. New undergraduate requirements are about to be enforced. But it is exactly here where the fault lies. Governance at Union offers superficial, short-run answers. Instead of building for a better academic environment geared to attract faculty, Union has only responded by offering faculty more money--an incentive that seems rather weak considering most professors did not choose their profession with high ambitions of affluence. Instead of focusing marked improvements in academic quality and educational resources--the true source of applicant attraction, Union has responded by dropping the SAT thereby increasing the applicant pool making our selectivity status 'look better.' Instead of stressing 'classroom' quality and rigorous studies, Unio11 has increased course requirements forgetting the fact that a good education starts in the classroom. Union was once a member of the top 25. And while U.S. News & World Report's survey should not be taken as God-given truth, it serves as yet another indicator that \something is rotten in the state of Denmark.\ Governance at Union needs to competently assess its goals as a liberal arts college and its responsibility of tackling college issues with a long- term perspective. The priorities of a higher institution of education have been put on the back burner for fast and drastic 'facelift-like' improvements. The true test of whether an improvement has proved its worth is reached by asking oneself how has this improved the level of education that students should have reached by their senior year. Are graduates leaving Union with the skills and qualities that they should be leaving with? Have they earned their diploma? Regardless of outside surveys and rankings, it owes its students a quality education, not pretensions of increased credibility and reputati<Jn. Take steps to improve the College with this forefront in the minds of the decision makers, and recognition will ultimately follow. LETTERS Brotherhood Actions Challenged To the Editors: I was deeply saddened to see the editorials of Mr. Ch-idsey Dickson come to an end. I want to congratulate his efforts in making all of us more aware of the problems associated with the Greek system and how these problems. can affect innocent victims. I can only speak for myself and the problems which I know of. I was extremely shocked to hear of an incident tht occurred in 1987, during my sophomore year. When I first heard of one specific gang rape, I couldn't believe my ears especially because the fraternity where it occurred was one in which I had frequently visited. When I questioned several brothrs at this house a few had nothing to say except that they were not involved, while others were depply troubled by what had happened. They, too, could not understand how such a horrible thing could've happened in their house. lt bothered me because I was friends with several members of this house aad I kept wondering how they could contain themselves and not divulge the awful things that they knew. I, too, feel guilty for not speaking up sooner. My_ hesitation emanated from my knowledge of the incident being 'second hand', that is, I was told by a member of the house who had also heard of the news 'second hand'. . The end of my silence was tri,ggered by a film called, \The Accused,\ a movie which I encourage all to see. This film was about a brutal gang rape where the victim, as so often in our society, was held responsible for the crime. Being drunk is not a crime. Being drunk and flirtatious is not a crime. But rape is a crime. In the film, those men who solicited the crime-- those men who cheered on the rape were held Feponsible in a cout of law. In fact, they were f <lund guilty. I do not know t1ie legal reality of this-- I am not acquainted with the law. 'The Jl()int is, these men clteered and screamed as a woman was being horribly brutal~ed, they condoned the criminal behavior. In a similar vein, the silence of an entire organhation concerning the wrongs committed also condones the crime. . I do not say all fraternity men are bad. I would be a hyprocite for I kn()W many fraternity men, including members of this particular house, to be quality people. What I am trying to .say is that some have allowed the system to determine their morality. Is \brotherhood\ more important than choosing right over wrong? If so, is11\t this a dangerous vow to make? Thank: you, Katherine J. Gaffney, Class of '89 UNION COLLEGE HOSTS AIDS CONFERENCE FOR COMMUNITY Union College invites the community to a free, one day conference on AIDS. It will take place on thursday, November 3 on the schenectady campus. The keynote adress at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel will be given by Dr. Richard Goldsby of the university of Massachusetts. In the afternoon, participants can choose from four different seminars. They will take place from 1:30 - 3:30 PM. In the College Center. For more information, call370-6241. That's 370-6241. Errata Due to a printing error, last week's letter, \Dickson's Fraternity Challenge Ends,\ omitted a subordinate clause in the last part of the third paragraph. The excerpt should have read: Acting in its role, the institution must often answer these criticms; defend itself against invalid criticisms (and say why they are invalid) and act on the valid criticisms in order to improve itself. Critics might be seen to work against institutions, bu~ in fact they work with them ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00PM ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Editors-in~Chief··. ·ClfnstineUong~ l;Jt~Fa Sbllkrl. ~· News. Editors · . . . ·· '· ... · . . ,J~~~qFrneland :: FeatuteEdit:org · Mm:lc·Uatii?ih · ·· · SJiutker. · ln~tlmt'IJ1eatutes~ers · ··· · · Nicolas ;a; Simon . Cotn:rn~ritm~sfPa~e !Uitor · · · · . ·· · &sCie.iCO'mlii~es:!fmitor ·· · ·· · ; · · Arts BdittJt · Assoo•Arts~t S$lencc Editor ~pq$_~·Editors ·. =·~~.~~~~: • . I 1 j

. . CONCOB.DlENSIS October 27, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS Dukakis '' Platform Put in ,Spotlight Firedrills Can Be Entertaining (This letter, on behlf -of Union College Republicans, is in response to Mr. Philip J, · Z;tccheo'.s editorials, which appeared fu the last two weeks• issues.) To the Editors: Mr, .Zaccheo continued the Pemocratic party ·tradition of- \negative'' campaigning with his editorials of the last two weeks. His letters merely ·infornied us of the reasons why we should not vote for the Bush/Quayle ticket Mr·. Zaccheo failed to paint out the many fine reasons why we should vote for Duk:akis. Although a coJlservative Republican, I have attempted (unbiasedly, of cou-rse) to list some of dfe major reasons for voting for ·Dukalds dris November. -Dukakis opposes mandatory prison·sentencing. .. Dukakis opposed president Reagan's military actio11 · against Libyan terrorism on tile grounds that it may have been \illegal\. -Dukakis ftled a lawsuit to prevent any president from being able ~o use National Guard units. ... Dukakis gave furloughs to murderers, rapists, and drn~ lringpins. -:Ou~s opposes .the de.3th pen-i.lty ih' ah c'ases;. b:e pardoned over~ 500 priminals and commuted the sentences of over...SO tnirrde!llJ:S. · Presented are only several of the reasons for voti(lg for Michael Du:kalds. on Election Day. I·personatly will cast my ballot for him on the basis of his financial 1riumphs in Massachusetts. Duk:akis~ state budget was ;mis:-·estimated by only $1 billion; this would be the equivalent of a trivial' $}00 billion at the federal · level. The Massachusetts State Pension · Plan, the state's equivalent -of social security, was .underfunded by a mere $13 billion. Dul<akis' budget overestimates sources of revenue as well. For example, . hi;s budget ass111D.es. that wages will rise 53% faster in Massachusetts than in the rest of the country. Optimism is ori.Iy one of Dukakis' strong points!. The aspects of Du:kakis' current budget show a k e e n lack of understanding of how budgets worJ.c. I am exhiliarated to know that once Dulc.akis becomes president, the financial .state of our country will be in radical disarray. Now, getting· ·back to Mr. zaccheo's letters~ I am proud to notify him that Dukakis' presiden~ial program will completely end the problems· . of povetty 1 hornelessness, drug addiction. itleoholisni. inflation, high nadonal d.ebt, environmental .pollution, high . . - ' taxes, .foreign trade deficits, low wages, unemployment, inadequate health insUI1IDce, and also the problems associated with the arms race and, · of course, nuclear weapons. I am completely confident that Dukak,js will solve each of these problems within .his first year -of office .. Keep in mind that Dukakis vetoed the · majority of funds appropriated to the Universal Health Care program, that Massachu·setts has a tremendously massive and untonstitutional debt, and that Boston Harbor remains the most polluted body of water in America today. Also, try to forget that Dukalds imposed the highest percentage tax increase in Massachusetts history, and that he op.p_9ses mandatory sentencing for drug-pushers; instead he gives them furloughs. I am tO~!lllY confident in Michael Dukakis. I am completely sure he will make an excellent president, perhaps / . . even one as good as Tyler or Johnson. Everyone who wants the finance, government, and economy of our great country to spontaneously combust should vote for . Michael Dukakis this ~ovember. He's a real ~inner! An avidDukakis \fan\, Don Valerio ('92) To the Editors: Yes, there has been a recent surge of fire drills on campus. Yes, they can be a nuisance. Yes, no .one likes them. But, yes, there will always be more, and we'd might as well get acc11stomed to it, because they are as much a part of living on campus as walking by the Nott So, rather than whining next time you're stunned by the sound of the alarm at 3:42 a.m., look on the brighter side of the situation. You get to see what that blonde chick down the hall looks like without makeup. · You can show off your new pajamas with the Fred Flintstone cartoons on them. It's a good excuse to cuddle in the cold. You can watch RA's and Area Coordinators run. You can interrupt coffee breaks at Security. Long distance phone calls which could have been costly, are suddenly cut short. You get to see who the extra people sleeping in your dorm · for the night are. _ You can check what's on HBO late .at night on the way back to your room. You can take your walkman radio outside with you and listen to amusing late 'night DJ's on WRUC. What about those really annoying times when you're taking a ,shower when the hell goes off? It's a .good time to survey people about the scent of your shampoo. Also, you can show people how impressive ·your sewing techniques are by flaunting the patched. holes in your bathrobe . And, on a parting note, :remember that ftre drills don't always occur at inopportune times. Why, just last week I had one during an 8:50 class in Humanities and then another during a 10:15 iri the Psychology Building .... Karen Schaefer '91 Soviet Exchange Program Clarified .To the Editors: I would like to correct a in the exchange must have completed at least the equivalent of three years of college Russian or speak, read, and write any other language spoken in the Soviet Union. They Will Survive . misimpression created in last week's issue. of Concordiensis. The new program with the Soviet Union is not a term abroad in the usual sense, but an exchange limited to two students per year. Students who participate Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Tenns Abroad To the EditOrs: Through the freezing Alaskan air, I could see the grey whales bobbing. and blowing for air.. With each surfacing they seemed to linger a little ionger. struggling. Their movements looked awkward. They didn't look like the pictures I had seen with their tails turned sideways, slapping the water like a beaver diving for safety. These mammals were in trouble as their breathing area was narrowing to the size of their blow holes. Why was l feeling torn by this? They weren't friends of mine or relatives, or neigltbc:Jrs. They weren't even pretty. They didn't remind me of my guppies darting through tile water or .any other pets I had. I didn it like feeling upset. -Then I realized what was happe11ing. I was reacting to their struggle for survival. They could have given· up but they~ were fighting for life wj.th the little they bad. Only_a few people could be there trying to help them c&me to an even keel. Down the road there were o\thers suppott.ing them and the link continued • Soo.n, Schenectad)': will be white like the Alaskan waters with ever narrowing dark: patcbes. We have fa1nilies fighting for their survival. Some of us are tryin..g- to provide more breathing room. Others, shouting from a distance are trying to show · these survivors the way to life on a more even keel. Nevertheless, many of us cannot get close enough to help. But should we only watch these stories on television'? Cap't we become part of the chain allowing our neighbors to surface? Welt, you probably know the answer. It is through our financial support of the groups closest to the edge of hard and soft feoting, through our United Way donations, that we can help. No one likes to be asked for money, and believe me no orte likes to ask for it either. But many more are helped by funneling our money through this organization than would be if we were to get requests for help seven hundred and thirty days a year. Perhaps you aren't interested in the grey whales. The United Way understands this and will honor your choice whatever it be but also recall that even colleges prefer unrestricted donations. Through the years, our coUege community bas been very generous in supporting the United Way. Judy Brauer and I as cochairs of this year's campaign hope that the students, fac\ilty, and staff will continue with at least the response gjven last year. JohnSowa Chemistry Dept. w·ATSON FELLOWSHIP FINALISTS AndrewBick Bruce Lawton J Dcuglas Pierce Owen Wallace Vernacular Architecture in Latin America International Efforts to Protect Marine Mammals Japan~ Portugal~ Norway The Role of Religion in Revolution Latin America, South Africa Controlled Breeding to Preserve Endangered Species United Kingdom~ South Africa~ India CONGRATUALTIONS TO ALL WHO APPLIEDJI AND ESPECIALLY TO THESE FOUR FINALIS·TS. WINNERS WILL 8[ ANNOUNCED NEXT MARCH. r··

CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1'988 Page 13 LETTERS Dukakis' Platform Put in Sp:otlight Firedrills Can Be Entertaining ('This letter, on beblf of Uni<Dn Ccllege Republicans, is in response to Mr. Philip J. Zaccheo's editorials, which appeared in the last two weeks' issues.) To the Editors: Mr. Zaccheo continued the Democratic party tradition of \negative'' campaigning with llis editorials of the last two weeks. His letters merely ·informed us of the reasons why we should not vote for the Bush/Quayle ticket. Mr. Zaccheo failed to point out the many line reasons why we sh.ould vote for Dukakis. Altho11gh a conservative Republican, I have attempted (1111bias.edly, of course) to list some of the major reasons for voting for Dukakis this Nuvernber. -Dukakis opposes mandatory prison sentencing. -Dukakis opposed president Reagan's military action ~ainst Libyan terrorism on the grounds that it may have been \illegal\. -Dulcakis filed a lawsuit to prevent any president from being able to use National Guard units. ..:Ou.kakis gave furloughs to murderers, rapists. and drug kingpins. -D11kakis opposes the death penalty in all cases; he pardoned over 500 criminals and conunuted the sentences of over 50 murderers. · Presented are only several of the reasons for voting for Michael Duk:akis on Election Day. I personally will cast my ballot for him on the basis of his financial triumphs in Massachusetts. Dukakis' state budget was mis:estimated by only $1 billion; this would be the equivalent .of a trivial $100 billion at the federal level. The Massachusetts State Pension Plan, the state's equivalent of social security, was underfunded by a mere $13 billion. Dukakis' budget overestimates sources of revenue as well. For example, his budget assumes that wages will rise 53% faster in Massachusetts than in the rest of the country. Optimism is only one of Dukakis' strong points! The aspects of Dukakis' current budget show a k e e n lack of understanding of how budgets work. I am exhiliarated to know that once Dukakis becomes president, the financial state of our country will be in radical disarray. Now, getting back to Mr. Zaccheo's letters. I .am proud to notify him that Dukakis' presidential program will completely end the problems of poverty, homelessness, drug addiction, alcoholism, inflation, high national debt, environmental pollution, high taxes. foreirgn trade deficits, low wages, unemployment, inadequate health insurance. and also the problems associated with the arms race and, of course, nuclear weapons. I am completely confident that Dukakis will solve each ()f these problems within his fu:st year of office. Keep in mind that Dukakis vetoed the majority of funds appropriated to the Universal Health Care program, t\hat Massachusetts has a tremendously massive an.d uncollstitutional debt, a11d that Boston Harbor remains the most polluted body of water in America today. Also, try to forget that Dukakis imposed the highest percentage tax increase in Massachusetts history, and tltat he opposes mandatory sentencing for drug-pushers; instead he gives them furloughs. I am totally confident in Michael Dukakis. I am completely sure he will mllke an excellent president, perhaps even one as good as Tyler or Johnson. Everyone who wants the finance, government, and economy of our great country to spontaneously combust should vote for Michael Dukakis this November. He's areal winner! An avid Dukalds ••tan\ Don Valerio ('92) To the Editors: Yes, there has been a recent surge of fire drills on campus. Yes, they can be a nuisance. Yes, no one likes them. But, yes, there will always be more:, and we'd might as wel1l get accustomed to it, because they are as rnu.ch a part of living oa campus as walking by the Nott So. rather than whining next time you'Fe stunned by the sound of the alarm at 3:42 a.m., look on the brighter side of the situation. You get to see what that blonde chick down the hall looks like without makeup. · You can show off your new pajamas with the Fred Flintstone cartoons on them. It's a good excuse to cuddle in the cold. You can watch RA's and Area Coordinators ron. You can interrupt coffee breaks at Security. Long distance phone calls which could have been costly, are suddenly cut short. You get to see who the extra people sleeping in your dorm for the night are. You can check what's on HBO late at night on the way back to y-our room. You ca11 take your walkman radio 011tside with you and listen t0o amusing late night DJ's on WltUC. What a.bout those really annoying times when you're taking a .shower when the bell goes off? It's a good time to survey peuple about the scent of your shampoo. Also, you can show people how impressive · your sewing techniqt1es are by flaunting the patched holes in your bathrobe. And, on a parting note, rememb-er that fire drills don't always occur at inopportune times. Why, just last week I had one during an 8:50 class in Humanities and then another during a 10:15 in the Psychology Building .... Karen Schaefer '91 Soviet Exchange Program Clarified To the Editors: m the exchange must have completed at least the equivalent of three years of college Russian or speak, read, and write any other language spoken in the Soviet Union. Sincerely yours, William W. Thomas Director of Terms Abroad They Will Survive I would like to correct a misimpression created in last week's issue of Concordiensis. The new program with the Soviet Union is not a term abroad in the usual sense, but an exchange limited to two stu.dents per year. Students who participate To the Editors: Through the freezing Alaskan air, I could see the grey whales bobbing and blowing for air. With each surfacing they seemed to linger a little longer, struggling. Their movements looked awkward. They didn't look like the pictures I had seen with their tails turned sideways, slapping the water like a beaver diving for safety. These mammals were in trouble as their breathing area was narrowing to the size of their blow holes. Why was I feeling tom by this? They weren't friends of mine or relatives, or neighbors. They weren't even pretty. They didn't remind me of my guppies darting through the water or any other pets I had. I didn't like feeling upset. Then I realized what was happening. I was reacting to their struggle for survival. They could have given up but they were fighting for life with the little they had. Only a few people could be there trying to help them come to an even keel. Down the road there were others supporting them and the link continued. Soon, Schenectady will be white like the Alaskan waters with ever narrowing dark patches. We have families fighting for their survival. Some of us are trying to provide more b:r:eathing room. Others, shouting from a distance are trying to show these survivors the way to life on a more even keel. Nevertheless, many of us cannot get close enough to help. But should we only watch these stories on television? Can't we become part of the chain allowing our neighbors to surface? Well, you probably know the answer. It is through our financial support of the groups closest to the edge of hard and soft footing, through our United Way donations, that we can help. No one likes to be asked for money, and believe me no one likes to ask for it either. But many more are helped by funneling our money through this organization than would be if we were to get Teques ts for help seven hundred and thirty days a year. Perhaps you aren't interested in the grey whales. The United Way understands this and will honor your choice whatever it be but also recall that even colleges prefer unrestricted donations. Through the years, our college community has been very generous in supporting the United Way. Judy Brauer and I as cochairs of this year's campaign hope that the students, faculty, and staff will continue with at least the response given last year. John Sowa Chemistry Dept. THE UNION COLLEGE PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT is pleas.ed to announce the foUowing colloquium ON THE liMITS OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE JEAtJ-PAUL VAN BENDEGEM GHENT UNIVERSITY November 4, 1988 3:30 Humanities Building Room 213 Raception afterwards held in the Humaities Lounge. pm Colloq·uia are open to the public. For further information can Marianne Snowden (518) 370--6376 WATSON FELLOWSHIP FINALISTS Andrew Bick Bruce Lawton Douglas Pierce Gwen Wall ace Vernacular Architecture in Latin Amertca International Efforts to Protect Marine Mammals Japan. Portugal, Norway The Role of Religion in Revolution Latin America~ South Africa Controlled Breeding to Preserve Endangered Species United Kingdom, South AfricaJ India CONGRATUALTIONS TO ALL WHO APPLIEDJI AND ESPECIALLY TO THESE FOUR FINALISTS. WINNERS WILL BE ANNOUNCED NEXT MARCH. r·· . '

.. Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS OctobeT 27, 1988 LETTERS Inefficiencies in Campus Security Provokes Student Concerns To the Editors: An incident involving the attack of a Union Alumna last Homecoming Weekend has increased the level of fear felt by Union students., especially those who live off-campus. While the attack was in NO WAY the fault of the Union College Administration ot that of Union College Security and Safety; it does represent the type of problem that tile entire Union community could face if changes in the security system are not made soon. Most of the problem lies in some basic flaws in tb.e escort service offered by the College and the abuse of this system by the student population of Union. Union's Student Handbook claims the escort system is \ ... designed to provide personal security when a student must travel the campus or get to their reside.nce when they are otherwis,e unaccompanied. It is not intended to be a shuttle service.\ (hours: Sun.-Thurs. 8 P.M.-1 A.M. & Fri.-Sat. 8 P.M.-3 A.M.) Due to a lack of housing on campus, many students are forced to either make their residence off- campus or to attend school elsewhere. According to Dean Wood, the number of·students living off-campus is abollt four hundred or roughly 25 per~ent. However, many of these students are not able to get to their residences because of a refusal by the school to drive students from one off-campus location to another. They will drive from off-campus to on campus and vice-versa, but not from off-campus to off- campus. It is my belief that since the school has made it necessary for so many kids to move off- campus they should provide rides froni one off-campus location to another. We, as students, pay a large and ever'- growing tuition to attend Union and we call this our home for the better part of four years. The school should do all that it can to insure our safety and I think more can be done. Unfortunately, the ,problem with the escort service does not end here. Other complaints range from student drivers not knowjng their way around campus and the adjoining streets to the dispatcher getting annoyed at students who caU for qdes. Long waiting periods for a ride to show ttP are not uncommon. One person I spoke to, who was on crutches at the time, recalled one instance wheti security did not even s}\ow up and he was forced to walk. While I fully understand that an emergency will take precedence over a security person giving a student a ride, it still seems to me that more can be done to ·improve the situation by the Administration and the students. When I spoke· to Paul Mantica,the Director of Union College Sec~ity and safety, be informed me of a new phone line that was .installed to improve the situation. Whereas ·before, one dispatcher would handle, calls for both the escort service and Securit'y, there is now a FALL TERM PHONATHON Talk on the Phone . D·inner Provided ... Cash Prizes . . . What Could, Be Better? Enter your team today! Sheets at Info. Booth DATES: NOVEMt;lER 6 & 7 HALL HOUSE DINING ROOM 5:30- 9:30PM Letters To. The Editor Do Not· Necessarily Reflect The Opinion Of The Editorial Board. . i separate number. for ,e.ach. However, he also told me .that if fid.river does not show UJl for his shift the Security Officer must handle both duties.. This is when the system getsba.oeked up. If . it is a problem of reso:urces, I do think tlte h:iring of 'additional personel cr the acquisition of a second van wou.ld be weU worth the trou.ble. One taition clleck woll:ld cover the purchase of another vehicle. The powers that be at Union College would prefer .that Union remain a wal1dng campus. If the studen:ts are encouraged to walk, then why does Security an~ SafeJY cruise arouild campus in cars with only ~n occasional stop to check a building? Why is there . · n()t a full-scale walking Jlatrol of security officers, not students? Responsibility for this problem does not lie t(')tally witll the College. A-p~tlte1ic is the .first word that cornes to mind when describing the students of Union~ but th.-ere are more than enough ways the Seniors: student body can help the situation, Now get read:Y, this is where it may take some effort. Oreups of .five or six people should be .safe walking from one. place to anot:her'on or off campus, so le~ve · the escorts for people who need them. As Mr. Mantica. stressed to me; this is an escort service, not a taxi service. ror those people who may be tited: and really do not feel like making· the walk aocross campus or do not like the weather, there are plenty of cab companies in town. Most importantly, for God's sake;· stop pulling fire alarms for any reason other than a fire. ·Besides being an incredibly stuP,id~ thing to do, it causes ufinecessary delays. An increase . in security measure$, however, can O!llY go so far. A note from the Dean of Students explainjng other measures which can be taken was placed in youi mailbox last week. These . mea$ures were also 'printed in last week's Concordiensis. Not traveling ·atone or at night, slopping · the practice of propping doors· . open, and reporting strange characters to · security are just a few of the metho¢s .sugg.ested to red.uce the risx of crime .. I know many students ;ll'e :annoyed by being treated like children, but take ·thirty seconds to look the list over. . I was told by the school that there ls a liability problem ' witlt driving kids around off- camptiS locations and the school would face difficulty in knowin:g wliere to dtaw the Jines of transportation off- campus. There are definite lin~s drawll around campus of ~eas. in which most U niol) Students live. We are not asking to be driyento the City of AlbMy or. to Mohawk Mall, but ortly. to feel ~afe when . going to a frien<f!s house~ I W()tild hate to think a legal hold-up would be the reason for another attack. Obviously no one in the student body or the · admioistration wants anyone to get ilurt. I do hope that sometbing can be worked out before a Union student is refused a ride off.,.campus, is forced to walk and a repeat of . last week's incidentHak:es place. Christos JameS Nikolis '90 Senior pictures will be taken. Thursday, November 1Oth· .. from 12:00-7:09pm and Friday the 11th-from 9:QQ ... 5:00pm. ''· Sign up in advance with Mrs. Marr~ !n the College Center, 4th floor, Student Activities Of_fice. Sign up early to get a· , convienent time.' To get your picture taken again will cost $3.00 for sitting fee. 1989 Yearbooks wi_ll be on sale for $25 and may .be· purchased from Mrs. Marra. Please sign up to get your p.icture taken. . L------------------------------- ......... • l .

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 . LETTERS Inefficiencies in Campus Security Provokes Student Concerns To the Editors: An incident involving the attack of a Union Alumna last Homec~ming Weekend has increased the level of fear felt by Unio:n students, especially those who live off-campus. WhHe the attack was in NO WAY the fault of the Union College Administration or that of U ni()n College Security and Safety, it does represent the type of problem that the entire Union community could face if changes in the security system are not made soon. Mos.t of the problem lies in some basic flaws in the escort service <JffeFed by the College and the abuse of this system by the student population of Union. Union's Student Handbook claims the escort system is \ ... designed to provide personal security when a student must travel the campus or get to their residence when they are otherwise unacc()mpanied. It is not intended to be a sh.uttle service_\ (hours: Sun.-Thurs. S P.M.-1 A.M. & Fri.-Sat. S P.M.-3 A.M.) Due to a lack of housing on campus, many students are forced to either make their residence off- campus or to attend school elsewhere. According to Dean Wood. the number of· students living ()[f-campus is about follr hundred or roughly 25 per<>ent. However, many of these students are not able to get to their residences because of a refusal by the school te> drive students from one off-camplls location to another. They will drive from off-campus to on campus and vice-versa, but not from off-campus to off- campus. It is my belief that since the school has made it necessary for so many kids to move off- campus they should provide rides from one off-campus location to another. We, as students, pay a large and ever- growing tuition to attend Union and we call this our home for the better part of four years. The school should do all that it can to insure our safety and I think more can be done. Unfortunately, the problem with the escort service does not end here. Other complaints range from student drivers not knowing their way around campus and the adjoining streets to the dispatcher getting annoyed at students who call for rj.des. Long waiting periods for a ride to show up are not uncommon. One person I spoke to, who was on crutches at the time, recalled one instance when security did not even show up and he was forced to walk. While I fully understand that an emergency will take precedence over a security person giving a student a ride, it still seems to me that more can be done to improve the situation by the Administration and the students. When I spoke to Paul Mantica,the Director of Union College Sec.urity and safety, be informed me of a new phone line that was installed to improve the situation. Whereas 'before, one dispatcher would handle calls for both the escort service and Security, there is now a FALL TERM PHONATHON Talk on the Phone . Dinner Provided . Cash Prizes ... What Could Be Better? Enter your team today! Sheets at Info. Booth DATES: NOVEMBER 6 & 7 HALL HOUSE DINING ROOM 5:30- 9:30 PM Letters To The Editor Do Not Necessarily Reflect The Opinion Of The Editorial Board. separate number for each. However, he a1lso told me that if a driver does not show up for his shift the Security Officer m11st handle both duties. This is when the system gets backed up. If it is a problem of resources, I do think the hiring ()f ·additional personel or the acq11isition of a second van would be well worth the trouble. One tuition check would cover the purchase of another vehicle. The powers that be at Union Col:Iege would prefer that Union remain a walking campus. If the students are encouraged to walk, then why does Security and Safety cruise amund campus in cars with only an occasional stop to check a building? Why is there . not a full-scale walking patrol of security officers, not students? Responsibility for this pFoblem does not lie totally with the College. Apathetic is the first word that comes to mind when describing the students of Union, but there are more than enough ways the Seniors: student body can help the situation. Now get ready, this is where it may take some effort. Groups ·Of five or six people should be safe walking from one place to another on or off campus, so leave the escorts for people who need them. As Mr. Mantica stressed to me, this is aa escort service, not a taxi service. For those people who may be tired and really do not feel like making the walk aocross campus or do not like the weather, there are plenty of cab companies in town. Most importantly, for God's sake, stop pulling fire alarms for any reason other than a fire. Besides being an incredibly stupid thing to do, it causes unnecessary delays. An increase ·in s.ecurity measures, however, can only go so far. A note from the Dean of Students explaining other measures which can be taken was placed in youc mailbox last week. These measures were also printed in last week's Concordiensis. Not traveling alone or at night, stopping the practice of propping doors open, and reporting strange characters to Security are just a few of the methods s11ggested to reduce the risk ()f crime. I know many students ;n:e aanoyed by being treated like childrea, but take thirty sec()nds to look the list over. I was told by the school that there is a liability problem with driving kids around off- campus locations and the school wo11ld face difficulty in knowing where to draw the l·ines of transportation off- campus. There are definite lines drawn around campus of areas in which m<>st Union Students live. We are not asking to be driven t() 11le City of Albany or to Mohawk Mall, but only to feel safe when going to a friend's house. I would hate to think a legal hold-up would be the reason for another attack. Obviously no one in the student body or the administration wants anyone to get hurt. I do hope that something can be worked out before a Union student is refused a ride off-campus, is forced to. walk and a repeat of last week's incidentttakes place. Cbristos James Nikolis '90 Senior pictures will be taken Thursday, November 1Oth from 12:00-?:00pm and Friday the 11th from 9:00-5:00pm. · Sign up in advance with Mrs. Marr~ !n the College Center, 4th floor, Student Activities Office. Sign up early to get a convienent time. To get your picture ·taken again will cost $3.00 for sitting fee. 1989 Yearbooks will be on sale for $25 . and may. be purchased from Mrs. Marra. Please sign up to get your picture taken.

'· CONCORDIENSIS OcirJIJer 27t 1.·. 9 .. 88. . . ' .. - - --- - . . UN. · ION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITT·EE ' . ' ' ' . . ' ' I ·LOUDLY PR-ESENTS CLIFF AT PROCTOR'.S THEATRE ·NOVEMBER 7., 1~988 AT 8:00PM Tickets:: $8 with Union ID* $12.50 to the. general public Tickets available at C.arnegie Box Office*, CBO Carl's Company and Proctors Theatre .*Discount only at Carnegie Box Office BE THERE, MQN! .. ·ouR FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM: -- More than a learning experience· RECEPTION- THURSDAY, ~OVEMBER 3 . at 10:00 a.m. Albany Hilton~ 10 EyckPlaza --Arthur's Court We invite all Seniors from SUNY-Albany · and Union to get to know the . . people and Finance opportunities available at Salomon Brothers. ·salomon Brothers ln.c Market M;:ikers and lnve'Stment BanKers One to..Jew Y Drk Plaza. New YorK. NY 10004 Page 15 ..... ,

CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITTEE LOUDLY PRESENTS CLIFF AT PROCTOR'S THEATRE NOVEMBER 7,1988 AT 8:00PM Tickets:·$8 with Union ID* $12.50 to the general public Tickets available at Carnegie Box Office* ' ' CBO Carls Company and Proctors Theatre *Discount only at Carnegie Box Office BE THERE, MON! OUR FINANCIAL ANALYST PROGRAM: More than a learning experience RECEPTION THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 3 at 10:00 a.m. Albany Hilton- 10 Eyck Plaza ·Arthur's Court We invite all Seniors from SUNY-Albany and Union to get to know the people and Finance opportunities available at Salomon Brothers. Salomon Brothers Inc ~/1arket Makers and Investment BanKers One ~ew York P!aza. New 'forK NY '0004 Page 15

· Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~ ··_··· --:;·::·. ~----------~--~--~~------~~~---------- \A Bland Waltz\ By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is a moderately entertaining film starring Don Johnson, Jeff Daniels, Susan Sarandort and Elizabeth Perkins. It attempts to explore the relationships existing between two friends and their wives and girlfriends. Daniels is a high schll;)ol principal in the small New England town in which he and his best friend, Johnson, have grown up; Daniels is single · . and becoming involved with ~ • Perkins, a grammar school teacher. Johnson on the other · hand is married with three children, and is beginning to realize, among other things, that his life hasn't turned out exactly as planned. Although .\Sweet Hearts Dance\ is a surprisingly well performed and appealing drama, it ultimately falls short of its own expectations. \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is in . many respects similar to \The Four Seasons.\ It too deals with the successes and failures within marriage and personal relationships, and it also is broken up into small segments which present the action in spurts, approximately over the course of a year. Yet ''Sweet Hearts Dance\ is simply not as weU written as was ''The Four Seasons\; and as a result it ultimate! y lacks the charm and poignancy of that film. For example, the long-standing relationship between Daniels and Johnson is interesting because it does not appear to have changed throughout the course of their lives: they are still unruly boys. in most respects, and they sled .and skate together with a competitive vengeance. Yet their relationship is left strangely unexamined, and tb.ey appear to discover nothing about each other within the context ·of the play. In a film sutb as \The Four Seasons,\ in contrast; all the relationships between the three married couples are examined to some extent. Johnson's and Sarandon's mani(:lge is the central focus of the fllrn, for after realizing that he and his wife \don't kiss any more\ and that he may not ~ally want thtee kids, Johnson leaves his wife. After many ten$e and confused encounters they finally reunite, for Johnson ha;; apparently learned .. -as the moral of the story~-that rnarr~age requires work and dedication. Which. is, needless to say; not the most startling or dramatic:conclusion. Despite its faults, ''Sweet Hearts Dance\ is not without charm, and it has some entertaining moments. Fot · instance, Johnson takes his son and Daniels camping, and his son asks to come inside the adult's tent. When they enter; Johnson reminds them, \no farting,\ and of course his son farts inunedjately. \Sweet Bearts· Pance\ is not a bad film, yet many of its predecessors such as \The Four Seas0ns\ are simply better. It tries to go beyond its depth while examining reJationships, yet itd~sn't make any origiflid or interesting judgn:tents in the long run. Although the actors · are more than competent (even Johnson, surprisingly), the fil:tn .still falls short of expectation. C+/B-. • Hollywood Fax ' . . CROSSGATES By ANDREW COLLINS and MICHAEL SILVERSTEIN So what's Robert Downey, SCHEDULE · Jr. been up to in recent days? Well, you can check out his latest effort in Rented Lips. Downey's father directed the flick and stars include Martin Mull, Dick Shawn, June Big PG 1:40 Gorillas in the Mist PG13 12:20 Fish Called Wanda R 1 :3D The Accused R 1 :10 Bat 21 R 1:55 Punchline R 12:35 Crossing Delancy PG 12:55 Feds PG13 2:1(J Halloween IV R 1:45 Die Hard R 12:15 Running em Empty PG13 .12:25 4:20 7:15 9:50 3:25 6:45 9:45 4:25 7:45 10:25 4:10 7:30 10:15 4:40 7:25 10~05 3:35 6:40 9:40 3:30 6:30 9:00 4:30 7:10 9:30 4:20 6:55 9:20 3:15 6:10 9:10 3:10 6:20 9:05 12:00 12:20 12:30 12:35 12:15 12:10 11 :15 11:45 11:35 11:50 11:30 I . Lockhart and a veritable plethora of others. Oliver Ston~ is currently directing the latest with Tom Cruise: Universal is producing a film based on Ron Kovic's memoir, Born on the Fourth of July. Delays in shooting could postpone the release date, possibly not until well into · 1989. Mel Gibson's latest film, \'Tequila Sunrise, in which he co-stars with Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell, finds him in an awkward love-triangle. He's a retired drug dealer, and a cop (Russell) is trying to get him put behind bars, all while the two men swoon over the proverbial \woman caught in between\ (Pfeiffer). Sounds FALL 1-ERM PHONATHON NOVEMBER 6 & 7 SIGN UP YOUR TEAM TODAYI CASH PRIZES PICK UP FORMS AT LAMONT HOU.SE 3RD FLOOR ' : . •. '!!'. ,thtillin·g·. Welcome to Fantasy Island '88. Richardo · Montalban, in between takes for Chrysler New Yorker ads, stars in The . Naked Gun with Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, O.J. Simpson, and John Houseman. You can already picture Herve. Villachez ready to spring into action with· a cast like this. Apparently an L.A. businessman (Montalban) is hired by terrorists to assassinate the Queen of . England when she visits Southern California. This flick was directed by the same trio that brought us Airplane!, Top SEcret!, and Ruthless Peoph. Unprecedented. appearances by old Mr. October himself, Reggie Jackson, and look\ali.kes ofYasir Arafat and wonderful Mauammer el-Qadafi will grace the silver screen in this one. It is supposed to fllled with wit, outrageousness, and tons of silliness. Bright Lights, IHg City. Does this movie say it all ot what. Michael J. Fox plunges into the electrifying depths of the New York City club sc~ne. A \scorching\ soundtrack with artists such as Bryan Ferry, New Order, Prince and Depeche Mode accompany thi~. party portrait. Showing what tne '80's party scene reaUy means in the city, if you:re try~ng to kick a coke addiction~ this movie is obviously not for you to see, otherwise it's a must What happened with Crowded House? Their last album took off like a rocket in U.S. and Europe, but what's up with 1988's Temple of· Low Me:n? Sales have been disappointing, and they've decided to cut short their promo-tour and head for home to visit with their families .. Temple of Low Men is just that; the tunes are basically down beat and the album has gone in a reverse direction. Hopefully they can recoup and get their act together. Remember, tune in next week; same bat time, same bat channel. • Cabaret! Tonight, 9 PM CC Atrium featuring: • Leau Kell,y, Ray Ashley, Rich Ahl .. Rob Dazinger's Band Be therel

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS October 27, 1988 . ::t~ [ ~:.:!--:..z.-------------------------------------------------- ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Idol Chat \A Bland Waltz\ Clouds - By Jose Andrade Lie down, Looking up, les as if I Am pinned To· Beliefs and The earth While I can Fall any Second into Those Painter's Clouds Or at least His beliefs But that would Make a rness And spoil ~h;e­ Pictu_re, For those Looking . Up, By CAMERON KENNY Associate Arts Editor \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is a moderately entertaining film starring Don Johnson, Jeff Daniels, Susan Sarandon and Elizabeth Perkins. It attempts to explore the relationships existing between two friends and their wives and girlfriends. Daniels is a high sch®ol principal in the small New England town in which he and · his best friend, Johnson, have grown up; Daniels is single and becoming involved with '' Perkins, a grammar school teacher. Johnson on the other hand is married with three children, and is beginning to realize, among other things, that his life hasn't turned out exactly as planned. Although \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is a surprisingly well performed and appealing drama, it ultimately falls short of its own expectations. \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is in many respects similar to \The Four Seasons.\ It too deals with the successes and failures within marriage and personal relationships, and it also is broken up into small segments which present the action in spurts, approximately over the course of a year. Yet \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is simply not as well written as was \The Four Seasoas\; and as a result it ultimately lacks the charm and poignancy of that film. For example, the long-standing relationship between Daniels and Johnson is interesting bee ause it does not appear to have changed throughout the course of their lives: they are still unruly boys in most respects, and they sled and skate together with a competitive vengeance. Yet their relationship is left strangely unexamined, and they appear to discover nothing about each other within the context of the play. In a film such as \The Four Seasons,\ in contrast; all the relationships between the three married couples ru:e examined to some extent. Johnson's and Sarandon's marriage is the central focus of the film. for after realizing that he and his wife \don't kiss any more\ and that he may not really want three kids, Jolmson leaves his wife. After many tense and confused encounters they finally reunite, for Johnson has apparently learned- -as the moral of the story--that marriage requires work and dedication. Which is. needless to say, not the most startling or dramatic conclusion. Despite its faults, \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is not without charm, and it has some entertaining moments. For instance, Johnson takes his son and Daniels camping, and his son asks to come inside the adult's tent. When they enter; Johnson reminds them, \no farting,\ and of course his son farts immediately. \Sweet Hearts Dance\ is not a bad film, yet many of its predecessors such as \The Four Seasons\ are simply better. It tries to go beyond its depth while examining relationships, yet it doesn't make any origh\al or interesting judgments in the long run. Although the actors are more than competent (even Johnson, surprisingly), the film still falls short of expectation. C+/B-. a Hollywood Fax CROSSGATES SCHEDULE By ANDREW COLLINS and MICHAEL SILVERSTEIN So what's Robert Downey, Jr. been up to in recent days? Well, you can check out his latest effort in Rented Lips. Downey's father directed the flick and stars include Martin Mull, Dick Shawn, June Lockhart and a veritable plethora of others. Oliver Stone is currently directing the latest with Tom Cruise. Universal is producing a film based on Ron Kovic's memoir, . Born on the Fourth of July. Delays in shooting could postpone the release date, possibly not until well into 1989. Mel Gibson's latest film, Tequila Sunrise, in which he co-stars with Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell, finds him in an awkward love-triangle. He's a retired drug dealer, and a cop (Russell) is trying to get him put behind bars, all while the two men swoon over the proverbial \woman caught in between\ (Pfeiffer). Sounds FALL 1-ERM PHONATHON NOVEMBER 6 & 7 SIGN UP YOUR TEAM TODAY! CASH PRIZES PICK UP FORMS AT LAMONT HOUSE 3RD FLOOR thrilling. Welcome to Fantasy Island '88. Richardo Montalban, in between takes for Chrysler New Yorker ads, stars in The Nalied Gun with Leslie Nielsen, Priscilla Presley, OJ. Simpson, and John Houseman. Yo11 can already picture Herve Villachez ready to spring into action with a cast like this. Apparently an L.A. businessman (Montalban) is hired by terrorists to assassinate the Queen of England when she visits Southern California. This flick was directed by the same trio that brought us Airplane!, Top Secret!, and Ruthless People. Unprecedented appearances by old Mr. October himself, Reggie Jackson, and look-alikes of Yasir Arafat and wonderful Mauammer el-Qadafi will grace the silver screen in this one. It is supposed to filled with wit, outrageousness, and tons of silliness. Bright Lights, Big City. Does this movie say it all or what. Michael J. Fox plunges into the electrifying depths of the New York City club sc~ne. A \scorching\ soundtrack with artists such as Bryan Ferry, New Order, Prince and Depeche Mode accompany this party portrait. Showing what the '80's party scene really means in the city, if you're trying to kick a coke addiction, this movie is obviously not for you to see, otherwise it's a must. What happened with Crowded House? Their last album took off like a rocket in U.S. and Europe, but what's up with 1988's Temple of Low Men? Sales have been disappointing, and they've decided to cut short their promo-tour and head for home to visit with their families. Temple of Low Men is just that; the tunes are basically down beat and the album has gone in a reverse direction. Hopefully they can recoup and get their act together. Remember, tune in ne:g.t week; same bat time, same bat channel. • Cabaret! Tonight, 9 PM CC Atrium featuring: - Leau Kelly, Ray Ashley, Rich Ahl .. Rob Dazinger's Band Be therel I !I ['

CONCORDJBNSIS October 27, 1988, P~ge 17 ARTS· & .ENTERTAINMENT ... Theatre Fest Success . Cabaret Captivates ·· · d · . ·h ... di N· .. .. 1 . game where one or rnor.e By KATIE. BOYD ·• tmng t e rea· ng. ~t unfl. . Gestures improv until they hit Arts Editor the b!a!lers and the .Poetry such a position that makes Thursday's Cabaret proved once again how exceptionally I ·talented Mountebanks members really are.. An overflowing college center crowd was delightfully entertained with everything from songs to· skits to an interpreted poetry reading. The Roommates (Artdy Livernois, Marc How~d. and Mike Miglioz~i) opefied the s·how with lively. finger snapping sofigs including \Amazing Grace\ (how many times 'have you snapped your fingers to that one?). If only all roommates harmoni~ed as· well... on the other side of harmonizing was the \Poetry Reading.'' The audience was aghast as some spectators continued their heated discussion {which finally escalated i11to a street brawl) Oct. 31 Film Committee presents a Trick or Treat? A.tten SS016 7,9,11 R.eadmg stars bo:-ve~ together another Gesture want into the did ev~one~~eahz.e lt was all actjon, was particularly an act. . I ~eb~;~d they. were ' funny _ with exceptional really ftghtLng. ... and tf you performances. from Eric Gural, .closed ~our eyes. you. would Debbie Byer, Tim Waynes, have beheved.Lotns.Arlilstrong Carolee Allen and Kamal. was reall~ l~ the College then the puppets came back. Center ,that ntght, to~: Don Michele Maratto, and Jessica ~old s thro~ty r~n~~~tton of Adelson gave a sneak preview Mac~ the .Kmfe w~~s .of the Art's coming attraction, fantasM~. Speaking off~ntastlc, \Black Cocoon\ . the essential the puppet sta~e \\:as tight out pie throwing ski{(Don Arnold, of ~c,rne. fau stde-s:llow .. · Tim Wynes) transpired~ stand Melts_sa Bloom ~rote, creat~d, up comedians stood up and and directed ~~ Happy Endin~ made people laugh, emcee Puppet Show ... ~ortunately Lt Derick Berry graciously ~as :not the endmg as Court pres~nted acts' and entertained Gestures turned out and tuned the audience while others set on, as in ''The Human Radio\. up. And a brief two hours later, From portrayals_ofDr. Ruth to Marc Howard, with a clear; Country Western, and Rap, the steady, beautiful voice sang the Gestures went to Hell, went to hit from Cats, \Midnight.\ a funeral, and with some But it was only 11:30. hesitation went to the audience Otherwise, the show was for suggestions.. \Freeze a purrrrfect • ·. - Theatre Feast Mounteban'ks ·Dinner Theatre By KATE BOYD Arts Editor Mountebanks concluded Theatre Fest with a dinner theatre presentation o:f \Overtones\ by Alice Gersteilberg. The one-act play focused on the duality of personality when $plit · by social convention and ·honest emotion. ln bet play, Gerstenberg gives a separate identity to each ofth~se halves. Thus, while it appears that · only two woman are having tea, there are in fact four halves present; all of whom are struggling to achieve their aims. One woman is rich, and one has love, yet both resent and dislike the other. For completely individual reasons, hewever, they also need each other. It is this complex tangle which Gerstenberg's use of two actresses for a single character most .adeptly illustrates. And it is the competent acting of Un!on Mounebanks ·Melissa Rogers, Laura Neumann, Laura Heffel'l'lan, and Tracy Brocks, all under the direction cf Andy Uvemois, which brought this idea to life Friday and Saturday night in the upper class dining hall. · Unfortunately, however, the division of the individual in this performance left on:ly four one-dimensional characters rather than four complicated components. The flat portraits ' were not allowed the .emotional variation essential to any character's 'hull'lanizatln'. While this one level of intensity did help the audience to distinguish which half of the p~rson the actresses presented, it also denied the audience the chance to be a witness to, and participate in, the characters' process of feeling. ·On the whole, Dinner Theatre was an undeniable success. The transfonnation of the upperclas dining hall was complete, with 'fine dancing', beautiful setS, and theatre. • FrL, Sat., Sup. 7,9,11 .MON., 7,9,11 WED., 7,9, 11 ALIEN MR-. MOM HOROSCOPES ~ - - -· BY ''.A'' SCORPIO·: Provocative influences provide an opportunity to update or put into action your plans for the summer or after graduation. yYhile at it;. you may also attract a new admirer. SAGITTARIUS: Your social life and. love life bllbble along pleasantly;. this week is promising f<Jr rrHleting new attractions. Meanwhile, don't get so CBLIQilt up .in socializing that you neglect other aspect$ of ),I()Uf life. .. CAPRICORN: The weekend finale will be a l10t rno.re satisfactory than the previous week- Grasp opportunities this week to make head 'IVS.'f with professors and affairs back at home. AQUARIUS: Aquarians, though incurable r()rn~ntics at heart, o1ten play mind games with those tlle~l tru !y care about. This week if those games continue, y()uwill be the looser. Expect good new$ in the maiL PISCES: Unexpected romantic feelings rna~ conflict with your libido lhis week. Take everythingslowi!J ~- for if it moves too quickly, too soon -- it isn't rn()ving anywhere. Don't give in to peer pressure! ARIES: This past week may have been the CCluse of a great deal of stress, but yol,J will see in the ·C:Oming week how your hard work will pay off. This week indu Jge yourself -- you deserve i_t! · TAURUS: Romance can be at it's montllly he-:ight if you play your cards right. Avoid rushing int<J aflytlling, but do not give up if someone is not respo-n<ling positive~y. Trust your intuition I GEMINI: A dream you are nurturing about a l()ve~ ()ne is unrealistic. This week the time is ripe for b~cGn~ing involved with someone n~w. Take adlra11ta~e of opportunities to meet people outside the Union College social scene. CANCER: You may have foanc;l your worl< Jo.a<l has been piling up, and your procrastination has cenainly not been beneficial. This week concentrate on c:atclling up on your responsibilities in time for a weeke Ad of intrigue _and excitement. LEO:Don't be pressured into making any rn()vEs ~r .. decisions this week that could undermine your peace of mind or security, especially concerning your S()cial life or physical welfare. Trust your owA judgeme11t and the reward will be great. VIRGO: If you are involved in a lo.ng-di:ltance romance -- it will show signs of becoming rewardi11g this wee~<. It's time to sit back and stop making all of tile effort to work things out. LIBRA: This weekend celebrate Halloween ill tile manner it should be celebrated-- go wild! lnto:xiicants may add to your fun, but in excess will lead '()flly to ernbarassment.

CONCORDJENSIS October 27, 1988 Page 17 ____________ A_R_T_S_& __ E_N_T~E_R_T_A_IN_. _M_E_N_T~-----~~·J:: Theatre Fest Success Cabaret Captivates . . . game where one or more By KATIE BOYD dunng the reading. N~t until Gestures improv until they hit Arts Editor the b_ra~lers and the Poetry such a position that makes Thursday's Cabaret proved once again how exceptionally 1 -talented Mountebanks members really are. An overflowing college center crowd was delightfully entertained with everything from songs to skits to an interpreted poetry reading. The Roommates (Andy Livernois, Marc Howard, and Mike Migliozzi) opelled the show with lively finger snapping songs including \Amazing Grace\ (how many times have you snapped your fingers to that one?). If only all roommates harmonized as· well... on the other side of harmonizing was the \Poetry Reading.\ The audience was aghast as some spectators continued their heated discuss ion (which finally escalated into a street brawl) Oct. 31 Film Committee presents a Trick or Treat? At ten SS016 7,9,11 ~eadmg stars bo~e~ together another Gesture want into the did evexyone ~eahze lt was all action, was particularly an act. I believed they we. re , funny witl:- ·e c 1 · 1 11 f h · \ d ·r 11 x ep 10na rea · Y tg tmg. ··· an 1 you performances from Eric Gural closed ~our eyes. you would Debbie Byer, Tim Waynes: have beheved _Loms Armstrong Carolee Allen and Kamal. was really ~~~ the College Then the puppets came back Center, that night, to~: Don Michele Maratto, and Jessica ;.unotd s throaty r~nd,~tion of Adelson gave a sneak preview Mac~ the _Kntfe w~s of the Art's coming attraction, fantasti~. Speaking of f~ntastic, \Black Cocoon\ the essential the puppet sta?e \\:as nght out pie throwing skit (Don Arnold, of ~orne fair side-show··· Tim Wynes) transpired, stand Mehs.sa Bloom ~rote, creat7d, up comedians stood up and and drrected ~e Happy Enclm~ macle people laugh, emcee Puppet Show ... rortunate1y It Derick Berry graciously was not the endmg as Court pres.ented acts· and entertained Gestures turned out and tuned the aadience while others set on, as in \The Human Radio\· up. And a brief two hours later, From portrayals of Dr. Ruth to Marc Howard, with a clear, Country Western, and Rap, the steady, beautiful voice sang the Gestures went to I-Iell, went to hit from cats, \Midnight.\ a funeral, and with some But it was only 11:30. hesitation went to the audience Otherwise, the show was for suggestions. \Freeze a purrrrfect. • Theatre Feast Mountebanks Dinner Theatre By KATE BOYD Arts Editor Mountebanks concluded Theatre Fest with a dinner theatre presentation of \Overtones\ by Alice Gerstenberg. The one-act play focused on the duality of personality when split by social convention and honest emotion. In her play, Gerstenberg gives a separate identity to each of these halves. Thus, while it appears that only two woman are having tea, there are in fact four halves present; all of whom are struggling to achieve their aims. One woman is rich, and one has love, yet both resent and dislike the other. For completely individual reasons, however, they also need each other. It is this complex tangle which Gerstenberg's use of two actresses for a single character most adeptly illustrates. And it is the competent acting of Union Mounebanks Melissa Rogers, Laura Neumann, Laura Heffernan, and Tracy Brocks, all under the direction of Andy Livernois, which brought this idea to life Friday and Saturday nig.ht in the upper class dining hall. Unfortunately, however, the division of the individual in this perfonnance left only four one-dimensional characters rather than four complicated components. The flat portraits · were not allowed the emotional variation essential to any character's 'humanizatin'. While this one level of intensity did help the audience to distinguish which half of the person the actresses presented, it also denied the audience the chance to be a witness to, and participate in, the characters' process of feeling. On the whole, Dinner Theatre was an undeniable success. The transformation of the upperclas dining hall was complete, with 'fine dancing', beautiful sets, and theatre. • TtiiS WEEK'S CAMPUS MOVIES Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11 BEEILEJIUICE MON., 7,9,11 WED., 7,9, 11 ALIEN MR.MOM HOROSCOPES BY \A\ SCORP'IO: Provocative influences provide an opportunity to update or put into action your plans for the summer or after graduation. While at it, you may also attract a new admirer. SAGITTARIUS: Your social life and love life bubble along pleasantly; this week is promising for meeting new attractions. Meanwhile, don't get so caught up in socializing that you neglect other aspects of your li1e. ., CAPRICORN: The weekend .finale will be a lot more satisfactory than the previous week. Grasp opportunities this week to make head way with professors and affairs back at home. AQUARIUS: Aquarians, though incurable romantics at heart, often play mind games with those they truly care about. This week if those games continue, you will be the looser. Expect good news in the mail. PISCES: Unexpected romantic feelings may conflict with your libido this week. Take everything slowly --for if it moves too quickly, too soon -- it isn't moving anywhere. Don't give in to peer pressure! ARIES: This past week may have been the cause of a great deal of stress, but you will see in the coming week how your hard work will pay off. This week indulge yourself --you deserve it! TAURUS: Romance can be at it's monthly height if you play your cards right. Avoid rushing into anything, but do not give up if someone is not responding positively. Trust your intuition ! GEMINI: A dream you are nurturing about a loved one is unrealistic. This week the time is ripe for becoming involved with someone new. Take advantage of opportunities to meet people outside the Union College social scene. CANCER: You may have found your work load has been piling up, and your procrastination has certainly not been beneficial. This week concentrate on catching up on your responsibilities in time for a weekend of intrigue and excitement LEO:Don't be pressured into making any moves or~ decisions this week that could undermine your peace of mind or security, especially concerning your social life or physical welfare. Trust your own judgement and the reward will be great. VIRGO: If you are involved in a long-distance romance -- it will show signs of becoming rewarding this week. It's time to sit back and stop making all of the effort to work things out. LIBRA: This weekend celebrate Halloween in the manner it should be celebrated-- go wild! Intoxicants may add to your fun, but in excess will lead only to embarassment.

I ' Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS October 27,' 1~88 < --·- - . -•1 ARTS.&· ENTERTAINMENT. Causing a Commotion By JOHN S. MORGAN Mainstr earn, Lloyd Co'le and the Commotions' thitd album, may well launcll the Scottish pop group into the rapids of the musical world. The band's first tw{) records have become colleg~ tadio staples, but the single \My Bag\ may well be their \The One I Love,' 1 R.E.M ... s fi:tst popular single. · Both Rattlesnakes and Easy Pieces were both critically acclaimed, and. they sold more than a cot1ple of copies in Europe. Pieces ,even went platinum in Iceland; but Cole was unhappy with the quality of the album after its release. Disgusted, he gave his platinum discs to a .cafe ip Glasgow, where they are used as tea trays even .as you read. While I appreciated both of Cole's previous efforts,. there is little question that Mainstream is special in more than a couple of ways. The album opens with \My Bag,\ containing a steady danceable rhythm and punchy guitars for melodic effect. \My Bag\ is singularly outstanding, putting the other nine tracks in an unenviable position ,. similar to batting after Kirk Gibson. \From the Hip\ and \Jennifer she said\ provide seatnless pop. The song entitled '~'Sean Penn Blues\ gives. Cole a chance to strut his sense of humor, and \Big Snake\ provides another example of the band's fascination with the slithering species. There are noteworthy contributions to Mainstream from outside the. Commotions circle. Police drummer Stewart Copeland kick:s in his share of the beat on ''Her Rusty.\ Ian Stanl~y. who has written for. Peter Gabriel and Tears For Fears, makes his first venture in the production studio. a '~keeper.\ A ~ The <lply down side to the story is that Blair Cowan, co- founding- member of. Lloyd Cole and the Commotions left the band after recording was completed. Tbe parting was a:tnicable, and Mainstream is dedicated to him. Cowan will not be replaced .. the band will continue on as a fout~piece pop machine. • Lloyd Cole A ·Cliff Hanging Term By JOHN S. MORGAN First, the good news: Jimmy Cliff is signed, sealed and-on November 7 will be delivered to Union Colleg.e reggae aficionados. Tickets, the good ones, for the show at Proctor's Theatre went on sale this past Monday at the Carnegie box office. This has proved to be a frustrating term for Concert Committee co-chairmen Bill Boyd and Ian Cooke. Cooke feels a sense of relief that the committee's efforts have finally borne fruit, \The Cliff show offers some hard proof to the College community that Concert Committee is on the job.\ Boyd and Cooke began to work on securing a Cliff show in early September. However, due to the nature of the contract- proposed by Cliff's management and reluctance of the College to go along with several of the clauses in the contract, this is the first issue of Concordiensis in which the concert could be formally announced. Concert Committee began the term with a crescendo ringing from the Atrium, as they presented Even The Odd before classes had begun in earnest on Friday, September 9. Attendance at the show was disappointing, but an estimated crowd of 100 students cheered the pop trio as they performed two encores in addition to their scheduled sets. A proposed Billy Bragg show in Memorial Chapel on October 21 was well within grasp, but difficulties with securing the venue erupted. A ' native of England, Bragg performs an eclectic mix of · ~ political ballads accompanied by his steady electric guitar play. According to Central Scheduling, there was a wedding rehearsal scheduled in the early evening of the .21st. This made planning for equipment load-in and sound check difficult,. and by the time that the venue had finally been secured, Bragg . had book~d another gig in Pittsburgh~ Co- chair Boyd commented that, · \Initially Physical Plant was less than willing . to compromise.\ C<>ncert Colmittee turned to Dean Martunola for assistance, and according to Boyd, he was \entirely supportive in giving administrative back-up to a student endeavor.'' The show fell through by a matter of hours. As soon as Pb.ysical Plant approved use of the Chapel, phone calls were made only to discover that JJ:ragg would be in Pittsburgh. Concert Committee will be extremely busy between now and the end of the tef111. This Friday, the jazz band Long After Lunch ·will be appearing in the Atrium •. Long 'After Lunch played a scorching set of Spyro Gyta like jazz as a last minute fill..:in at this past Camp Union. On Mo11day, Social Committee,... will join forces with Concert Comniittee to present campus favorites · Mambo~X at an aU-campus · Halloween Party. The Mambos have been anxious to retUlll to Union aftet tile rousing - \ The WRUC Top 8.97 U2 continues to eat up the airwaves!!! ' ' If;? AdlAt .A!!2Ym. -~ 1 U2 Raffl~ & Hum Island 2 Primitives Lovely - RCA 3 The Alarm I.R.S. .4 Edie 'Brihell & the. New Shooting Rubberbands Geffen Bohemians al the Stars s. Lloyd Cole &. the Mainstream Capital Commotions 6 Camper Van ;Bet hoven \Turquoise Jewelry\t2\ Virgin 7 Billy Bragg Workers PlaYtime Eiektra 8 Allphaville Singles Colleelion Atlantic 8.97 Camouflage Voic;:es & Images · Allan lie Program Notes: Tune in this Saturday at 7:30 p_.m.· for the opening Qclme of the 1988-89 Union Hockey 'S,eason. Keep tuned to .WRUC to· fi:nd out how to. win tickets 'to the upcoming Jimmy CJlff Concert_ at Proctors. . Support Group for Grieving Have you experienced the loss of a praent, relative or close friend? Do you need to talk about how· you deal with the upcoming holidays? If so come to CC 4048 · Thursday, October 27th 3 PM For more information contact: Religious Programs Office 6618 6087 6539 welcome they receivtad as the 1 1 ,__\\\'!\ _______ ...,. Fitzh·ugh Ludlow Day · \When you party headliners last year. ~l.. t Social Committee chairman remeuwer: .0 ... Bill Floor indicated that this would be the first of several . joint ventures with Concert Committee. According to Floor, uwe are hoping to bring some exciting events, social and musical, to the campus.\ 1ncluded in their plans is a \Winter Term Concert Series,\ which wil bring smaller bands to the campus during the · upcoming tundra season. • Do1ft.get \\'l'ecked. If rmlr.e not :mbcr-oryou·r~ not suce- let someone ellit~do the drh ing Amcs,<:Jj1c pn>•idt'<l bythis 111.'1\Spllpfr' UIIQ llt.'Cr D~nkcrs 11f AIJK:ri.Cll ... ..

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS Octo·ber 27, 1988 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Causing a Commotion By JOHN S. MORGAN Mainstream, Lloyd Cole and the Commotions' third album, may well launch ~he Scottish pop group into the rapids of the musical world. The band's first two rec01ds have become college radio staples, but the single \My Bag\ may we'll be the:: \The One I Love,\ R.E.M. :'irst popular single. Both Rattlesnakes and Easy Pieces were both critically acclaimed, and they sold more than a couple of copies in Europe. Pieces even went platinum in Iceland, but Cole was unhappy with the quality of the album after its release. Disgusted, he gave his platinum discs to a cafe in Glasgow, where they are used as tea trays even as you read. While I appreciated both of Cole's previous efforts, there is little question that Mainstream is special in more than a couple of ways. The album opens with \My Bag,\ containing a steady danceable rhythm and punchy guitars for melodic effect. \My Bag\ is singularly outstandiNg, putting the other nine tracks in an unenviable position - similar to batting after Kirk Gibson. \From the Hip\ and \Jennifer she said\ provide seamless pop. The song entitled \Sean Penn B1ues\ gives Cole a chance to strut his sense of humor, and \Big Snake\ provides another example of the band's fascination with the slithering species. There ar:e noteworthy contributions to Mainstream from outside the Commotions circle. Police drummer Stewart Copeland kicks in his share of the beat on \Her Rusty.\ Ian Stanley, who has written for Peter Gabriel and Tears For Fears, makes his first venture in the production studio a \keeper.\ The <mly down s.ide to the story is that Blair Cowan, co- founding member of Lloyd Cole and the Commotions left the band after recording was completed. The parting was amicable, and Mainstream is dedicated to him. Cowan will not be replaced - the band will continue on as a four-piece pop machine. Ill Lloyd Cole A Cliff Hanging Term By JOHN S. MORGAN First, the good news: J imrny Cliff is signed, sealed and on November 7 will be delivered to Union College reggae aficionados. Tickets, the good ones, for the show at Proctor's Theatre went on sale this past Monday at the Carnegie box office. This has proved to be a frustrating term for Concert Committee co-chairmen Bill Boyd and Ian Cooke. Cooke feels a sense of relief that the committee's efforts have finally borne fruit, \The Cliff show offers some hard proof to the College community that Concert Committee is on the job.\ Boyd and Cooke began to work on securing a Cliff show in early September. However, due to the nature of the contract proposed by Cliff's management and reluctance of the College to go along with several of the clauses in the contract, this is the first issue of Concordiensis in which the concert could be formally announced. Concert Committee began the term with a crescendo ringing from the Atrium, as they presented Even The Odd before classes had begun in earnest on Friday, September 9. Attendance at the show was disappointing, but an estimated crowd of 100 students cheered the pop trio as they performed two encores in addition to their scheduled sets. A proposed Billy Bragg show in Memorial Chapel on October 21 was well within grasp, but difficulties with securing the venue erupted. A native of England, Bragg performs an eclectic mix of · ~~~~ . :pd.itic4!1 ballads accompanied b)' his steady electric guitar play. According to Central Scheduling, there was a wedcling rehearsal scheduled in tile early evening of the 21st. rh is made planning for ecpipment load-in and sound ci:Jeck difficult, and by the time tluat the venue had finally been secured, Bragg had booked an()ther gig in Pittsburgh. Co- •Cha:ir Boyd commented that, ~'Initially, Physical Plant was le:ss than willing to c:::orniJromise.\ Concert Col mittee turned to Dean N arntn.ola for assistance, and according to Boyd, he was ·~elltirely supportive in giving ad-ministrative back-up to a stucfent endeavor.\ The show fell through by a matter of hours. As soon as Physical Plant approved use of the Chapel, phone calls were made only to discover that Bragg would be in Pittsburgh. Concert Committee will be extremely busy between now and the end of the term. This Friday, the jazz band Lo11g After Lunch will be appearing in the Atrium. Long After Lunch played a scorching set of Spyro Gyra like jazz as a last minute fill-in at this past Camp Union. On Monday, Social Committee will joi11 forces with Concert Committee to present campus favorites Mambo-X at an all-campus Halloween Party. The Mambos have been anxious to return to Union after the rousing The WRUC Top 8.97 U2 continues to eat up the airwaves!!! 1\b Artist .8I.!2Ym .!..E!2ru 1 U2 Raffle & Hum Island 2 Primitives Lovely RCA 3 The Alarm I.R.S. .4 Edie Brihell & the New Shooting Rubberba11ds Geffen Bohemians at the Stars 5 Lloyd Cole & the Commotions Mainstream Capital 6 Camper Van Bethoven \Turquoise Jewelry\12\ Virgin 7 Billy Bragg Workers Playtime Eleklra 8 Allphaville Singles Collection Athintic 8.97 Camouflage Voices & Images Atlantic Program Notes: Tune in this Saturday at 7:30 p.m. for the opening game of the 1988-89 Union Hockey Season. Keep tuned to WRUC to find out how to win tickets to the upcoming Proctors. Jimmy Cliff Concert at Support Group for Grieving Have you experienced the loss of a praent, relative or close friend? Do you need to talk about how you deal with the upcoming holidays? If so come to CC 4048 Thursday. October 27th 3 PM For more information contact: Religious Programs Office 6618 6087 6539 welcome they received as the 1 ~ r--~---------. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day When you party headliners last year. ~ 1-.. t Social Committee chairman remeuwer 0 ... Bill Floor indicated that this would be the first of several joint ventures with Concert Committee. According to Floor, \We are hoping to bring some exciting events, social and musical, to the campus,\ lncluded in their plans is a \Winter Term Concert Series,\ which wil bring smaller bands to the campus during the upcoming tundra season. • D01fl gel \r~ckrd If )mi're not soher- or \ou're nul sure- let someorw ~lse do the tlri1 i ng .\ mL~\~~l' pn11.1clt•t.l h~ 1h1~ m·\~~Jl.I[H.'r and Bc:cr Drml<t•r.. <>f. \rue rica 1j

.. \ .. ··HOM~CO'MING T\SHI:RTS A limited number of VOTE UNION T-shftts are still available in Lamount House at the special post- Homecoming price of only $3.00. Get iem while they last! . Tuesday Nights \·8· ~l\tl. ! . \pin-· ') • .• vu ,. / Arts Building Rm. 215< BEGINNERS AND EXPERIENCED DANCER$ - Bring Your 72p Shoes ·It You .Ha'{e 7/Jem TELL A FRIEND NEW MEMBERS WELCOME Any Questions Call Dwight Ext. 4255 · xair Des.ign,sx· .. . 'By. · .. ~kid 'cc c 'i • c WALK-INS WELCOME c c c • c c Carm and Nikki DiMatte\l welcome you to visit our salon on VanVranken Ave. Mon-Sat 9-6 ·and Sunday by appt only. We specialize in all new modern techniques- ancl styles as well as old. . 518·379·5238 · 1689 VanVranken Avce... · AZBT Directory Correction: The Ad for B.uning Florist should read·- a one time discount of 1 Oo/o ·with the ad being brought to the store. ·UPCOMING' C-STEP. SEMIIARS (Calendar Gf Events) Oct. 2D, 3 pm, · S219/Science·Engineering · Flames And Explosions With Prof. Hayes Oct. 25, 4 :3'0 pm, Psychology Bldg. Room102 NeutophysiMogy And Neuroanat()m yOn A Small ·scale: Experie11oing The World Through An Insect's Brain With Prof. Olberg Oct. 27, 4:45pm, Location to be announced · · Career Opportunities ·in Health · And Health-related Fields (Panel) SEMINARS OPEN TO C-STEP ELIGIBLE STUDENTS FOR INFORMA1ION, CALL EXT. 6404 OR VISIT THE C·STEP OFFI:CE IN BAILEY HALL; fiOOM 1Q1A CONCORDTENSIS ()ctl)ber '27, 1988 Page 19 oFAS~liON ATJ-lLE\IlC CL01HlNG o$1l.fDEl\ri OlSCO\JN~S a BACK TO SCHOOL HEADQUARJERS a tOW; tOW PP.lCES \'10% off on any . · merchandise to . : ALL Shrdents 833 MGClellan St. Schenectady, NY 12308 . . 372-4932 ·rc 21~ A E R 0 B l c WEAR $$.$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ . CHRISTMAS MONEY ··cHRISTMAS VACATION UNITED PARCEL_SERVICE EMPLOYMENT FtillTime - ·Part Time MONDAY THRU FRIDAYTILL CHRISTMAS ALLSHIFTSAVAfLABLE Help With Christmas Bills While Being Paid To WorkOut APPLY IN PERSON: EACH MONDAY BETWEEEN 10 AM-. 8 PM UPS PERSONNEL OFFICE 24 AVIS DRIVE, LATHAM, NY 12ll0 (1ST LEFf OFF WADE RD. OFF RT. 7) EOE M/F $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ ' THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND Academic Program ~eve~al college:, of Oxford l!nivetsity have invited The Washing!Onlntel!ladoniil Studies Center • (WISC) to reeomme11d qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled in their colleges and receive transcripts {rom tlleir Oxford college; this is NOT a pro~ conducted by a U.S. college in Ol\fonl. Oxford colleges are accredited ~ the U.S. Dept. of I;ducation ki accept students with Guaranteed Student Lollils. Multi-national student llousing: and social · activities are offered, SJ]d cultural tours are conducted by WJS<;;. A s~ial: ~urnmer session iS di<ected by WlSC. INT}tRN IN WASHINGTON, DeC. .. Pre-professional Program The WashingtonintemadonalStudies Ce11ter offers swnmer ihtemships w.ith C<>ngrtss, with· the White House with the media and with think tanks. G<>vemment nnd J ollmalism oourses are taught by senior-lev~! government officials, who are also scholars, and by ex.perienced j<>umalists. All (Ollege stu~n~ with a 3.0 GPA or abOve are eligible. i . For further informatton, please write or ccm WRSC The Washington lilt:e~tional Stu4ies Center 214 Ma,f!Saciulse\tS Ave .. !'J.E. Sulte 2:31/ ·Washingt~n .. D.c. zooo:z. (ZO:Z.l~H7·:l27o EO/AA 10 o/o orr To Students & Faculty :NISKAYUNA TIRE & SERVICE Expert Auto Repair ~ 24 Hr. Towing Hercu.les • Goodyear ~ Kelly Springfield 1501 Ballt<Jwn Rd. Schenectady, NY 12309 374-9751 GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION 'lbu're working hard for )Qllr college degree. But at graduation, }00 may be one of many :people com- peting for the few really ~· opetings. Get the IIlOst from }OOr degree. Air Force ROTC is one wir; to help }00 get started: Our train- ing program gives )OU' the management and leadership skills Jm:1 need to succeed. As an Air Force officer, ~·n put )Our e<lucatioo to work ina responsible position from the very beginning. Its a greatopportunity. Why settle for anytliing less? CAPT ROBERT KELLER, IV 515-,276-6236 .......... ...... ... .., ~--=---- ... ~ ..... _: ~ LIVE IN JAPAN Individuals with a degree and experience in: electronics, engineering, TESOL, linguistics, phararncy, finance, management, real estate, advertising, publishing, elementary education and the travel employees of major coroporations/ government ministries should send resume and photo: International Educatitm Services Shin Taiso Bldg., 1 0-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome Shihuya-ku, Tokyo 150, Japan Interviews will be heLd in various U.S. cities this fall .. o/is_age Rair ancf rr'anning Sturfio I 557 NottSt. 374-0351 Specials of the Month: all perms are $10.00 off . nail tips with acrylic are $10.00 off nigh lighting is $15.00 off asf(for •Joann •'Betli •(jene ALL YEAR • Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps ate' $10.00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.'00 can be shared waxing is also available ·Premium QjJ.alit!:j fmpri.ntec£ Sportswear 50/50 AND \OOC7c HEAVYWEIGHT TS Fleecewear- Jackets· Caps 6 · color capabilities Complete graphics service Airbrush and Tie-dye Competitive quote+ punctual delivery 399-7160 l87 A Glenridge Rd. Scotia, N.Y.

;. f I ' .. ·J ! I H ! HOMECOMING T-SHIRTS A limited number of VOTE UNION T-shirts are still avaitlable in Lamount House at the special post- Homecoming price of only $3.00. Get 'em while they last! Tuesday Nights 8:00pm·? Arts Building Rm.215 BEGINNERS AND EXPERIENCED DANCERS Bring Your Tap Shoes If You Have Them TELL A FRIEND NEW MEMBERS WELCOME Any Questions Call Dwight Ext. 4265 :H'air Designsx 'By.· . . 9\ikki ~. WALK-INS WELCOME Carm and Nikki DiMatteo welcome you to visit our salon on VanVranken · Ave. Mon-Sat 9-6 and Sunday by appt. only. We specialize in all new modern techniques and styles as well as old. 518-370-5238 1689 VanVranken Ave. AZBT Directory Correction: The Ad for Buning Florist should read- a one time discount of 1 0°/o with the ad being brought to the store. UPCOMING C-STEP SEMINARS (Calendar of Events) Oct. 20, 3 pm, 5219/Science Engineering Flames And Explosions With Prof. Hayes Oct. 25, 4:30 pm, Psychology Bldg. Room102 Neurophysiology And Neuroanatomy On A Small Scale: Experiencing The World Through An Insect's Brain With Prof. Olberg Oct. 27, 4:45 pm, Location to be announced Career Opportunities In Health And Health-related Fields (Panel) SEMINARS OPEN TO C·STEP ELIGIBLE STUDENTS FOR INFORMATION, CALL EXT. 6404 OR VISIT THE C·STEP OFFICE IN BAILEY HALL, ROOM 101A CONCORDIENSIS October 27, 1988 Page 19 neaKers. Qllts ~FASl-IION ATHLE11C CLOTI-Ji,NG HJIJ:':#r.. oSTUDE'NT DlSCOUNTS spqruwuu · · oBACl( TO SCJ-l00L HEADQUARTERS ~LOW, LOW PRICES • 10o/c off on any merchandise to ALL Students 833 McClellan St. A E R 0 B I c WEAR $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ CHRISTMAS MONEY CHRISTMAS VACATION I st< I liP.~ . ,.\. .. ~· UNITED PARCEL SERVICE EMPLOYMENT FullTime - Part Time MONDAY THRU FRIDAY TILL CHRISTMAS ALL SHUTS AVAilABLE Help With Christmas Bills While Being Paid To Work Out APPLY IN PERSON: EACH MONDAY BETWEEEN 10 AM- 8 PM UPS PERSONNEL OFFICE 24 AVIS DRIVE, LATHAM, NY 12110 (1ST LEFf OFF WADE RD. OFF RT. 7) EOE M/F $$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$$ THE WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL STUDIES CENTER STUDY IN OXFORD, ENGLAND Academic Program Several colleges of OUord University have invited The Washington International Studies Center (WlSC) to recommend qualified students to study for one year or for one or two terms Lower Junior status is required, and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled m thetr colleges and rece1ve transcripts from their O>:ford college; th1s IS NOT a program conducted by a U.S. college in O>:ford. Oxford colleges are accredJted by the U.S. Dept. of Educauon to accept students with Guaranteed Student Lcails. Mulu-national student housing and social acnvities are offered, and cultural tours are conducted by WISC. A special summer session IS du:ected by WISC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, D.C. Pre-professional Program The Washington International Studies Center offers summer internships with Congress. w1th the White House, with the media and with tlunk tanks. Government and Jownalism courses arc taught by senior-level government officials, who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. All college students with a 3.0 GPA or above are eligible. For further tnjormation. please write or call: WRSC Tbe Washington International Studies Center 214 Massachusetts Ave., N.E. Suite 230 Washington. ,D.C. 20002 (2021 54 7·3275 EO/ AA. 10% Off To Students & Faculty NISKAYUNA TIRE & SER\!ICE Expert Auto Repair - 24 Hr. Towing Hercules • Goodyear • Kelly Springfield 1501 Halltown Rd. Schenectady, NY 12309 374-9751 GET THE EDGE ON THE COMPETITION '\bu're working hard for }\)Ur college degree. But at graduation, you may be one of many people com- peting for the few really good openings. Get the most from JUUr degree Air Force Rare is one wa:y to help )OU get started. Our train- ing program gives )'GU the management and leadership skills you need to succeed. As an Air Force officer, }\)U~ll put your education to work in a responsible position from the very beginning. It's a great opportunity. Why settle for anything less? CAPT ROBERT KELLER, IV 518-276-6236 --- ----- --------- - -~- --.........r-~ __..---...__ -. ..... _.. - .--. -- .... ....................... _IIi'!! Leadership E:xl:ellence Starts Here LIVE IN JAPAN Individuals with a degree and experience in: electronics, engineering, TESOL, linguistics, pharamcy, finance, management, real estate, advertising, publishing, elementary education ;md the travel employees of major coroporations/ government ministries should send resume and photo: International Education Servin's Shin Taiso Bldg., 10-7, Dogenzaka 2-chome Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150, Japan Interviews will be held in various U.S. cities this fall. 7/isage Jiair and 'Tanning Studio 557 Nott St. 374-0351 Specials of the Month: all perms are $10.00 off nail tips with acrylic are $10.00 off high lighting is $15.00 off as/(for • Joann •13etfi •(jene ALL YEAR • .Lynn Haircuts are $5.00 off Body Wraps are $10.00 off TANNING 100 visits for $79.00 can be shared waxing is also available Premium Qua!ity Imprintec£ Sportsu'ear 'i0/50 A:\JD l00C'r HEAVY\VElGHT T S Fleecewear · Jackets - C'aps 6 -color capabilities Complete graphics service Airbrush and Tie-dye Competitive quote + punctual delivery 399-7160 187 A Glenridge RJ. Scotia. N.Y.

Page 20 CONCORD!ENSIS October. 17, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS ------------------ You are also most welcome to 1 come just for the Forum at 7 p.m. Morning prayer con- , Jan Karski • Saturday, tinues every weekday from November 5th 11:30-12:30 in 8:15-8:35 in the 4th floor Hale House Lower Lounge Dr. lounge of the CC. Jan Karski will speak\' on \The Bible study meets from · Holocaust: Why We 11:30-12:45 on Thursdays in Remember.\ This is a special CC205. Lunch provided for · .. Brunch Program sponsored by those on the meal plan. Others · · the Religious Programs Office please bring your own. Our in conjunction with text, The Bible Makes • Kristallnacht (night of Broken Sense, is available in the Glass). Remembrance Week, bookstore.. ·. November 4-10 whic'h Sunday worship is at 6 commemorates the 50th PM in the 4th floor lounge of' . Anniversary of organized anti- the CC. 1 • Jewish riots of Nov. 9-W, The support group for · 1938. Dr. Karski was the grieving will meet Thursday, Polish courier who alerted the 10/27, at 3 PM in 404B CC. outside world of the Nazi Names of friends and death camps and extennination relatives who have died in the program. All welcome. The last year will be mentioned in • Brunch is free but please the prayers during morning RSVP to Religious Programs prayer on All Saints' Day : Office 370-6087 ifattend.ing. (Tuesday, 11/1}. If you have Halloween_ Visit to names you would like Kingsway Arms • Sunday, mentioned, please call • October 30 Union students will Religious Programs at x6618. . . visit patients . at Kingsway A slideshow on Arms Nursing Home. Meet in Kampuchea will be shown. ,costume at the College Center continuously between 11 and 1 · at l p.m. We will return. by 3 on Wednesday, ll/2, on the first floor of the College P·;omen's Commission Center. Come and learn about one of the countries where Meetings • Nov. 3, Nov. 0 f f d d 1 17, Dec. 1, and Dec. 15. CC x am un s ·eve opment 409. Brown bag lunch. Issues projects. · Sign-ups for the Oxfam for all Womenori Campus. All fast are in west and the college community invited. U pperclass Dining Hall on Tuesday, 11/2 and Wednesday, r .. y ~ 11/3. You can do something PERSON..l'3,.1AJ about world hunger! Steve C. Volunteers fo'r the Oxfam fast are still needed. Sign-up sheets are in the Religious Programs lobby (404 CC). Can I borrow your single . sometime? Somebody has to use it. Newman Club Activities RD, Sunday Night Suppers - Enjoy fellowship and friendship while eating your Sunday supper. New Time. No matter what, a good · friend is a forever friend!! 5 p.m. Sundays CC 203. Brown Bag Lunch & Bible Study - Tuesdays in CC 404B at 11:30 a.m. Support G.roup for Grieving - Meets Thursday from 3-4 in CC 404B in conjunction with the staff of the Religious Programs Office. 1 · Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's · school: Kindergarten Aides, Computer Math Aides, and ' Math and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Kristin Nelson (386-4354) or Sheila Hennigan (386-4353). Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass, please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the Church to rehearse. · Visiting Shut-Ins - Any Union students who wish to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please contact Sr. Joan's sister, Gerri Borne 372-3381. Abortion Forum Theological stances of Jewish, Protestant and Roman Catholic Faiths on a very controversial issue. Friday, November 4th at 6 p.m. in the Kosher Kitchen. Those on a meal plan may use their meal card. Spaces are limited - please contact Sr. Joan to make a reservation. Nifty Five Fifty LAZ, Toussaint was a year ago this weekend! Can you believe it? I bet you still love those white army sheets! OX6! What memories! Send it! KC Ollie, I heard Mike Tyson is looking for a new trainer! KC ·I tried out this weekend? Good ' .. L · k\ , zig Tage! Ich bin seht . einsam ohne dich aber die zeit . vergeht schnelt F;:eine Sorge! MFRDDFPV in La-La Land! · uc •• Quel semester. Quel 4 years. Keep it Up - You're. only a senior once! E.B.A.F.E'.D.M.U. · Hormorie., . . 1 . Schwachkop:tin. Heard he called m the Nick : . --~------~~~-- . oftiine! · . ' . Who Doug up the Petemoss in the Meadow? Under where? Who got Robbed on the day of the Flood? Couldn't be prouder! It's loverly. You're spendiferous! 1987-88 Potter Pe()ple- We miss you - Come visit. G&M Santos, Who gave DG the copyright to the Orgo Song?? LA Hull Hola from Madrid. Have you written Nancy and Margie yet? EEEEE Dill FFFFFFFFH! AJ, Did you know that you are the nicest guy on this campus? Your#l Fan! Jill, New friends? What about me? I miss you! Love, Your Roomie Janey B, Amazing job! Thanks for everything! Love, Your Sisters SDT, Great Job guys!. Give yourselves a Big Hand. We made it. Momma Sig, We'll try to control our big mouths next time. You're the best! Missing: Wolfskin Jacket - last seen on Park Place. I __ _.___....___.._ ___ ~__,_-- I Mr. Baseball #3, Glad you could make it to : the game. Just wait until the spring! Miss Field Hockey #13. Gretch;. Missa, Ma.rn, Beth, Julie, Jaimie, Vic, Dane, Steve, and DJ - Hope things are swell! I miss you - but, believe me -:. there. are things to keep me occupied! · LOve to All, Beck Gretch & Missa - Be psyched for Greece- rm sad I won't see you until spring - Please send news! Miss you - Beck Gilbert, Make sure to send an invite . ;to mother - your moth.er. Third Reich R. Reed Whidden, Having fun? Schenectady isn!t the same w/o you. Remember to vote for the right candidate (Row B, O.K.?). Carl Pookers, I love you! Mondette 10/29/88 CAll: SMC was right, having me walk her home is not the same as when you do it, IT'S BETTER. . MTZ Kath & Ei, . Thanks. for taking ·such good ,care of me! Ing P.S. Ei, Wher~'s that knight you promised? Seeking a night of meaningless sex. Call Jason . x4221. Toby, Ilow come your room smell5 so good. Second Floor Crave, I'm bigger, taller, and . stronger but you still always manage to get your way with me. YourNew Budc1y. Bra- Dave, CONGRATS on the BID!! Do you' know how much it · We had faith even though you costs to mail Concordies to · dicln't! (Damn - that's jerked!) Bath? Wait until you find out We love you! what I wani in return! Start worrying! The Alps aren't tbe same without you. Ricki M, Marlaina, Sean, Lisa and I .are keeping the Chinese tradi_tion alive. Hurry back! We have some unfinish• ed ... matters ... to attend to. I'm Al3SOLUTELY happy. Are you? I miss you! E Liebchen, N ur einhundertzweiundvier Scrappy, I thought an a on Hansen would release the plethora of your libido - but it seems that it vanis'hed down at 28th & Lex. Woody Talk about living on borrowed time :-.Only 3 weeks left. It's true what they say - Time really does fly when you're having an incredible terril!

CONCORDIENSl$ October 27, 1988 Page 21 ... ··- ,. PERSONALS. ~----~----------~·J Jen, Happy 19th: Doll! We'll have a fabulous Quiche, ' weekend. Love Always Taj I never meant to harass you last week. Please bil:l me for all damage$! . • . Coffee Josh W, , When can we s.ee your 22 inches? K&.L Lisa ~d Stepn, Just want to say ''hi\. Caruiot· witit until it's over .. ·because we miss you. . . ·· . Love you; 13eth and Julie ,Karen and Kim, Remember Giving of ·Thanks, Coming Home and Sweet-Heart Dance. Thanks for a great time. Love· ya, Betb. LauriD . Help me out and tell me the best way to get to know you better. · The gu.y that gave you a · flower Manica, Thank you very much for listening to m.e complain. A\ friend indeed.. Ricky, Don't you worry about anything, I'll take care of it under2 conditions- you do the dishes and behave. From your roommate with Love MariaT. P~S. Maybe nexLti.me there will be more people in the · theater. You'redoing an AWESOME -~------''---\-~ : job and_ we love and appreciate Missa, Gretch, Beck, Kristen, Mam; Annie: , you a lot!! All of your sisters. The Hackers stillli ve. We love you and miss the good times. Love, Beth & Julie --------------- Kaz ·and Klmrnie: Prince Spaghetti, Reese's Pieces, Water Safety, Oscar, Scamming, Scooping, Drinking, Late Night, tum right,. right here ... We love you, I Beth and JUlie Michelle, Through it all, yo11 are still the greatest. Christos ------------~-- \ WAY TO GO HOOTERS! 4-0 KEEP IT UP, Now it's PLAY-\OFF TIME. Let's Go For It All. --------------~-- Kasia & Tracy, The movers hired us - made gi]eatnew friends - can't wait for Pam to go away - Sean and Bobbi ----------------- Bobbi, Learn how to use a bathroom Sean Eliaszes- ' 16~9 isn't' the same without you. Enjoy your social life now because in January you won'thave one. Love you! J:3lackie To the crazy road trippers to Boston. Thanks for a great time and special thanks tothe weeble for being s<> sexually frustrated and amusing us all. Kristen Oigit, Yo11 are the best roommate ever! Good luck tomorrow, whatever happens you.'re the bears,! Love yout snooze alarm • roommate. Ziggy ITB, Del~ Gamma Hennehan, Thanks fot all the tim.e, talks and advice. It hasn't lfeen the easiest, but you've made tne smile. What will I do when we're not supposed to \share our problems\ anymore? ITB, Dangler To the DC Crew 1987: A Reunion Thursday after the election - hosted by Cliff- to celebrate the hanging of ~eatross' Doric Columns - Bohemian Beer will be served. To My Secret Password: Thanks for being a great friend. We need to fmda hot tub soon or a couch perhaps. Love - Pebbles Jason, Sony I won't be there to c~eer for your awesome punts · and great field~oals, but I know you will stay ahead .. Your#l Fan Kristin: A llappy Birthday message late but we will still celebrate - It will be like drinking and dancing' at Chicago's. Smile Love- Steffer & Risa MlSHM, What is SUP? I'll meet you ' in the bathroom! Can you sing that song? MISHL Julie & Becky~ I'm just looking for something very BASIC. Missy, Lina · Thanks for putting up with me for all this time. PDE. Gina, We miss you! Write Us! -Ex.-Fowth Floor Richmond and Friends Doug, . I hear yolll' G.F .. is coming up for the weekend. Tickets for the show are already sold out!' My tum to 'la11gh!! Liz Bob, I forgotto leave you a pair of my socks - Sorry maybe next time. Liz To Whom It May Concern: Zim is the best walker- homer that I know (next to CAB) - Any girl would be honored to have such an escort. Thanx,Zim! SMC CAB, Don't let the mundane get yoq_down. Look around! Wbere are you? YEAH! (Keep you.r eyes open for potential rendezvous!) J love you! Keep the Faith. R.Reed, Thanks for the letters. Kelly, the d.Qg witll bald spots, says Hi. ' Fr<Jm someone safe in Schenectady- and far away from Rome's t_,ax:is B1L: Welcome to Schen. What kind of (suntry, rainy, cozy or stormy) weather did you bring 'th ? wt. you. Love,NPH Matt, I blew.it last week. Happy Birthday An-y:way. (Your very own personal!) Ken Keep the Carnegie Name!! Zelmonger, Here's to afmtastic weekend! NYC (that sltotlld be s~g!) Truth or Dare\l I never! Just remember I'm driving you back! Be ruce 10 me!! Kathy FOUND: Ladies Watch Call 377 -440'8 North/PHF Delt Soccer Team. · Congratulatipns on a tough game Monday- night even though you cme up short Here's to nex.t )'ear!!! Joe, Another g~me of cribbage?? Perhaps I can win back the blankets. Delta Gamma, Salvdos de Madrid!! Eileen Love, CC, NF, :M¥- (& KS). '. CAMPUS NEWS To Davidson Assassins, Get Ready to Kill .. - The Game Masters Missy, Taken any showers lately? OK ..• So it wasn't ftmny, Did you like our multicolored letter? Take lots of/Pictures! Miss you! Marlaina & Lina Dave, How are the pigeons over there? Think they can find their way :home?.Hope you can. See ya soon, Marlaina Dave, You're very welcome for dinner - now it's your tum. Taj, Happy, Happy Birthday!!! Love, Fox and Burl Joe Economist, Buy Low Sell High? Buy High Sell Low? Whatever .•.. Fanny Fiscal Lori, When does breast feeding come into play?! Little Lilia TO THE BOYS IN SOUTH Thanks- Our rushees left with a bang. Sigma Delta Tau Peter Brady (Ricer), When it's time to cb:ange, you've got to re-arrrange who you are and as to what you're gonna dooooo. Cathy &Lina Meghan, Is that the ugliest face you can make?! Personally ... I don't think so. I love you Kiddo. Thanks. Wretch &Jess, Great tours guys - were you gatesmen in your last lives. LoveJen M. T., Try to keep your clothes on · in the bar room this year - at least until January! I miss you! Love Sheryl November 8th won't be the same without waterbeds and hockey games! Looking forward \to the ski slopes - -and more waterbeds? Taj, , Hope you had a great birthday! Love Lindsay Jaimie, You have to take me next weekend. Sounds like an ... exciting .. ah ... time. Love, Jen Brad Close, ·I miss you very much! Love, Sue Happy Birthday Tri-Delta!! We miss you all- Good luck with rush! Love Sheryl & Sue Gretcb and Missa, 1 Be psyched for Greece - rm sad I won't see you until Spring- Please send news! Miss you - Beck Gretcb, Missa, Ann. Marn, Beth, Steve, Julie, Jaimie, Vic, Dave and DJ. - 1 ij:ope things are swell. I · miss you - but, believe me there are things to keep me 'occupied! Beck Ing- 3 weeks in a row - WOW! Jen: Terri T, I just want you to know that abscence makes the heart grow fonder. I Love You, Jen Love, me P.S. \There are some things in life that you just can't conttol!\ Got It?! ATTENTION: To place a personal in the paper, you mus~ go to the Information Desk. Each personal costs 50¢ and no personal over 28 words will be permitted. Personals must be submitted by 4 o'clock on Tuesday. •, . ....

Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS October 27, 1988 arnncnr~itn&is .SPORTS Mouthing Off with Andy Braver Eight months. lt takes eight whole months from start to finish. Fine. Why? Why are there only four teams?! Football has ten, hockey and bask~tball have sixteen. So why does baseball have only four? And that is out of a total\of twenty-six. Again, football has twenty-eight, hockey has twenty~one, and basketball has twenty-five now, and next year will have twenty-seven. Each baseball team plays 162 games over the regular season, and they also labor through a rigorous spring training schedule in which an additional 25 games are played. That's almost 200 games apiece, and only four of the twenty-eight make the playoffs. That is really a travesty of justice, not to mention a great deal of 'wasted'. energy!! Football gives playoff berths to the six division winners, and two wildcard teams in each conference. One game at a time, and only one team can spend the summer lmowfng that they won their last game of the season, and that they were the best team in the league. Hockey season does end in late Jun,e, eight months after the start of the season. But the playoffs take over a month to complete~ because anybody who wears a colored uniform can make the playoffs. Well, maybe not, but it certainly seems that way. Basketball has the same problem. Over two-thirds of the league's teams play in post- season games. The playoffs seem to last as long as the regular season. But the excitement is still there, for football, hockey, and basketball. Baseball does not not monopolize it. The regular season games ate still eventful. In baseball, a division can be ' won with 20 games left in the season. The New York Mets did it in 1986. But second place is nQt usually decided until the last few games. Why wouldn't the leag:u.e want to keep attendance up in cities where a team isn't going to win the division, but where it's going to be in a dogfight for second place until the last game? The thought doesn't make sense. This year,. the Milwaukee Brewers played .500 ball in the f'ust half of the year, but after tile All-Star break, they were one of the best teams in the league, At one point in late September, they were Within one and a half games of American League past leader Boston. True, they faded, and finished in third place, but the top five teams in the division were within five games after the last day was completed The League Championship Series and the World Series are both best out of seven. In the strike interrupted season of 1981, the divisional leader at the start of the strike and the leader at end of the season made the playoffs. The divisional series were the best of . five games. They were just as exciting as the ·League Championship and World. Series. The league was not hurt by the expanded · playoff system. And the fans in eight cities could celebrate the fact . that their team made it to the playoffs. If baseball would add a best of three series between the top two teams in the division, it would add a totally new twist to the regular season. A problem is that any team can win on any given day, no matter whom they play. But that is part of .the game. these short series will separate the haves from the have-nots. The only advantage that the divisional winner should receive is the series should be played in their city. Horne field advantage is enough of a reward for winning the division. Expanding baseball's playoff system certainly is not going to huit the league: Yes it is true that with the extra series it would be a great deal easier for the petter teams to lose. But so what? Did anyone actually think that the Minnesota Twins were the best team in baseball in 1987? Playoff expansion could actually be a good idea. It would certainly help the likes of Cleveland and its Indians. They need all the help they can get!!! • Scoreboard Union Union Union Union Union Union Men's Football 10 Coast Guard 17 Men's Soccer 1 Univ. of Rochester 2 0 RI.T. 5 0 _Colgate 1 Field Hockey Plavoffs 1 Hamilton O(Q.T.) Women's Soccer Middlebury 1 c.Dm~tll'\d see. -thtW' k)nep~~ MUSKI~ 1 of o. OW\tl. P~se~ASon ..... . ' .''1heS~~ t)otchmen• ta~t ~.~! Men's. Soccer Stumbles lJy CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. ~ The men's soccer team fell from grace this past week as they dropped two matches to rivals University of Rochester and RIT. The losses seriously wounded the Dutchmen's hopes for a post.-season bid. Last Wednesday the . Dutchmen hosted Rochester in their last horne game of the season, and lost 3-1 in a game Over the weekend me team traveled to RIT, where they were beaten soundly, 5~0, by their nationally ranked opponents. The Dutch~en never really got anything started, but played better than the score might indicate, as bad breaks continued tO abound fot the team. Avery had a sbot rolling i.ntc the net Stopped short by a puddle, and Hodson, had his nose broken enroute to a header, which, cpnsequentl'y ended the Freshman stopper's season. From. here the Dutchmen's luck did not impr&ve~ and the topsy ... turvy season sent the Dutchmen down once more. · that :was marred by poor officiating. The Dutchmen outplayed Rochester convincingly in the fifst half, getting ·strong efforts from Chris Avery at striker and Rich Engdahl at midfield. The half ended with no score. In the first ten minutes of the second. half, the Dutchmen . , became the victirnt_ of perhaps 1the worst officiating in recent memory~ and found themselves trailing ·3 ... 0. Ftom that point on their hearts seemed broken; and, although they staged a comeback late in the game., it proved insignificant. The lone Union goal wa~ scored by A very, who connected on a rebound .of aD~ Hodson header with twelve . minutes remaining. The men's soccer team can still pull out at least an ECAC bid, but with ·a $4-3 record, it wHl require some serious magic in the remaining three \ games. , _ The J. V. squad finished their season this week with a 2-0 win over RPI. The Jay Vees compiled 'a 4-4-2 record, and were led on offense' by ·Pete Cowles.(3 goals, 2 assists) and . Dave Burg (3 goals), whil~ the Defense was controlled by· Ric Morton, Roger Weber, arid Kiel Schmid. • Interested In Sports Photog;raphy? CONCORD·IENSIS,· . . NEEDS YOU! CALL THE OFFICE at 370-6155 There \\Till be a MANDATORY Meeting of Men's Rugby Friday , October 28 ·iri:'the .. R-ugby Room at- 4:30 .. P·m:~ . Bring y()ur c·h.ec·kOook:.- '. I I

ey by an ad a a it ir d CONCORDlENSJS October 27, 1988 Page 23 <lrnncnr~itn.&is SPORTS Athlete, of the Week By DAVE MORRISON · Sp<~rts· Editor . for Union in four years. One was quoted as saying that she was \the driving force behind This season's women's the team, offensively, · defensively and ·emotionally. _volle~balt team finished- >their season with a mediocre record - ._. Anne is.· the key motiva_tion of 13-14. Althoug'h they were for all of us_\ She was selected not league champions, they did to the All- Tourney team at the put in a lot of.effGrt to do the Vassar tournament a few weeks best they could. There are· ago. She was one out of six many occasions _,in sports chosen from sixteen teams. SPOlTS ACCORDING TO GOETZ . . By GREG GOETZ wh~re tremendous taJent goes Anne was also instrumental in overlooked_ due to the image -helpi:qg' her team go to the Steroid use in professional often -given to les:S than quarte:£finals in last week's · and amateur sports is finally spectacular teams. This week~s Anne Hoban Williams Tourney. · 'gaining the attention such a AtMete of the Week is one of Anne and her teammates serious problem deserves. If these people. Anne Hoban is a performance and as this year's look forward to their last .I this society has begun a four year varshy starter and co-captain. displayed leaderhip tournament on Saturday at · crusade .against drug use. then letter winner. She is fro~ on and off the court. Anne is a Slcidmore at 9:00 a.m. We at the use of steroids should Winetk~ 1L, and is a senior ·dean's list student. Concordiensis wish the become a part of the fight to math major. · Anne has played According to her teammates entire votley·ball team· luck cleanse the bodies of America. _an_ .... im....;po~· ... rt ... an..;.· _u...;o_Ie .... _ ...;:in_h.;.:;er;;;;·...;;te..;;.;am.;.;._ ;.;;.';;;.,.s _s_h_e_i_s .... t ........ he_b_e_st....;p;;...l ... ay;;.... e_r_t_o...;;. p;...la...;y;...· _s_a .... tur .... _da_y_an_d_i_n:_th_e;...· fl_u ... ttw_e_._•......,--1· ·The effort put into curtaHing steroid use has been miniscule compared. to the witch hunt fanaticism mounted 'against illicit drugs and alcohol. Field Hockey Beats Hamilton in 0. T. t·ravels to Cortl·an:d for Semi-Finals By MARK.T. ZIMMERMAN Associate Sports Editor The Ullion Field Hockey Team seeded third iti the state tournament, won its opening game. this past Tuesday against sixth seed~ Hamilton. The game went' into overtime before Union scored the only goal of tl;le game. The Dutchmen went into the .game with a perfect record of 13 victoFies and no defeats. Hamilton's record was 6_and 5. In its 13 games, Union has outscored its opponents, .39-5, / so it was not a big sur,prise that Union shut out Hamil~on. Union will now travel to Cortland .. for the semifinal round - Union was ranked fourth in the Mid-Atlantic Field Hockey Poll on October 20. The team's undefeated ~eason is the first ever by a Union Varsity Field H9ekey team The season has been a complete su.ccess for the -team but has not been as ,easy as it appears.. Nine of l'ast year's piayers are on terms abroad and three graduated. But younger player& have managed to fill in the missing links. Currently, there are ten freshmen and sophomores on the team of seventeen. The game began with Union in complete control. The ball did not even. cross mi,dfield fQr the .first seven minutes of play. Hamilton eventually got its offense in to the game .and managed several drives. In the meantime, Union. was attempting ·to score as well. The baH seemed to be going up and down the field with neither team having many opportunities to score. Both teams had shots that hit the post, and that was the closest they would come. Union looked to be -controlling the ball a majority of the time, but could not pieee together a drive ending in a goal. The second half had a si:rtillar scenario. Union controlled the ball most of the time, but again, came ·away scoreless. Overtime was a different story. Union, ,.showing its superior conditioning, set the tempo as the team came onto the field ready for battle. It took only four minutes into the overtime period for Union to score. Alison Pallotta fed Lynn Hyde a pass near the net and the score was 1\0. Union then held off Hamilton for the remainder of the period and secured themselves a place in the final round of the playoffs. The Dutchmen will next .play the winner of the Oswego- Cortland game. Coach Robert was obviously quite happy afer the Hamilton game. \I'm glad we won, but I'm also glad it . was close_ They made us work ha1'der.\ She feels that Cortland will be their next opponent and _ that it will be a very tough game. Cortland is seeded second in the tournament with a regular season record of 12-1- 1. Cortland must first beat Oswego, however. The game will be held at Cortland regardless of who wins the Oswego-Cortland game, at either 12:00 or 2:00 p.m. this Saturday.• · Steroids do provide the results · that young athletes look for in the competitive world -of spaqs, no matter the sport or the level. They do make you stronger and faster, but as the old adage says, you don't get · something for nothing~ The tradeoff involved in steroid· use is· of Faustian proportions. . Instead of ris-king just one's soul; one's health and life expectancy can also be drastically affected by steroids. Ben Johnson has recently been suspended for two years from competition for his involvement in steroid use. In amateur sports, many other competitors have been stripped· of their medals, banned from competing and shamed for using steroids. This exainple of · punishment should be adopted on the professional level. Already existant programs of testing must be refined. Many competitors have found ways to avoid testing positive for steroid use. The problem will exist as long as people can fmd a way to avoid detection. The NFL and the NCAA have initiated steroid testing programs, and tliey have caught some players involved in the use of steroids. However, there jare hypocritical attempts at saving face, saying that they are addressing the problem. Those athletes who have tested positive have received little more than a slap on the wrist, compared to the penalties when one is caught for using mind- altering drugs, which tend to affect performance in negative ways. Doc Ellis is the exception to this rule, by the way, having pitched a no-hitter while under the influence of LSD. But the point is that steroid use is tolerated because it provides a competitive edge: bigger, stronger, faster, and more aggressive athletes. A coach's job is to win. Often to win at all cost. Steroid use can provide a quick fix, short term results. The infusion of steroid use has altered the shape of sports. -Football is the most glaring example of the influence of steroids. The size of the lineman has increased incredibly over the last decade or so. Back then a 300-pound player was a rarity. Now it is nearly the average. Players become involved in steroids as a means of prolonging their careers, of staying competitive. However, this is also a misconception on the steroid user's part. It is truly an arms race, where those involved feel threatened by \the other guy.\ But the mental and health risks inherent in steroid use surely outweigh the advantages of high salary and glory. In football, the pay· is higher because the risk is already high enough. Using steroids only increases it • WANTS TO PICK YOUR BRAIN. This year's undefeated Field Hockey squad. Sign-Ups For Teams in College Center 407 Friday, Oct 21- Friday, Oct. 28 4 players +1 alternate is required of all teams Rules available at the information boHh.

• f· (f) ~ a: § u 0 0: ·~ >- co 0 0 ::r: c..: Lynn oe. scored overtime to boost field hockey past HamHton, and advanced them into the semi-finals round of The Women!.S 'Soccer' team record .stands at I$ Fr lday. · - · · · · ·playoffs. Ott October 27, 1988 Dutch,men Defeated By Coast Guard, 17-10 By ANDREW SEEWALD In what amounted t<> a microcosm of.tlJe 1988 seas'On, mistakes outciid the U11ion football squad. The Dutcllmen entered the game a decided underdog to Coast G11ard, despite comillg off a 27-0 trouncing of RPL The Sears were ranked s.econd in New England, and in the top teil overall in their division, Still, tile Figllting Dutchmen were not to be Slink without a stmggle. Trailing 17-10 with 1:11 remaini11g in the game, Union had the ball on their own 2:0-yard line. A success(ul drive could have given the Dutcllrnen the lead. A series of q11ick passes by quarterback Brett Russ,. to Mario DiLoreto and Aarcn Root, moved tlle ball to the Bears' 21-yard line. At that pointt time was at a prelllium and the Dutchmen needed to punch it in the end zone quickly. The result w~s familiarj in two of their three losses coming into the game, the Dutchmen saw comeback bids fall short, ·and this game was no different. Russ was intercepted by B~ars' linebacker Ryan Eckholm to seal tile Coast Guard victory. Union was f()rced to play come-frorn-behincl ball becau:se of costly lapses Cln defense and sloppy play by the kicking injured tailbaek Ryan Mason, squad. whose straight-ahead style is Braving the miserable usually more successful in weather, the crowd hardly had a such weather. chance to dry off their seats These circumstances led before Coast Guard connected Union coach Al Bagnoli to for an 83-yard touchdown run .. move flanker Steve Hayes into The Bears executed the · the· backfield, a move that was wishbone triple-option well on : greeted with some success. the play and jumped to a 7-0 Hayes' 12-yard TD run capped a lead. The Dutchmen have not 34-yard third quarter drive that won a game in which they pulled the Dutchmen to within have trailed this season. 15-10. From that point on, A 74-yard Coast Guard punt howevert Coast Guard's that bounced to the Union !- wishbone was more of a help- yarflline set up the Bears• final than a hurdle for the 2-point score to provide the Dutchmen. The Bears· fumble- final margin of 17-10. prone wishbone offense turned * * * the ball over a total of 5 times. Coast Guard improved to 6-1 But Union was unable to as Union dropped to 2-4. capitalizet and mistakes of their Union is now faced with own led to more points for having to win its final two Coast Guard. The Bears games of the season, both on increased their lead to 9-0 less the road, to avoid its first than three minutes into tlie losing season since 1981. lThe game when, from deep in Dutchmen are off this Union's own end, the snap to weekend, then travel to punter Jason Krause carried Norwich November 5 aJ;Id over his\head and into the end Hamilton November 12. M zonet where he was ~clded for the frrst of two safeties against the Dutchmen on the day. The early deficit and the raging elements resulted in a poor day for the Dutchmen on the ground. Horace Griffin, their leading group gainer this year, was neutralized by the soggy turf, as he was not able to make quick cuts upfield once outside. Union felt the loss of UNION-COAST GUARD BOX SCORES Coast .Guard 9 60 2- 17' Union 0 37 0. 10 First: C.G- Kenny 83 run (Roth kick); C.G- safety, Krause tacklecf'ln end zone. Second: U- Krause FG; CG· Duermlt 32 blocked punt return (kick failed), Third: U- Hayes 12 run (Krause kick). ' Fourth: CG· safety, RU1!s tackle\~ in end zone. First Da.Yns Rushes•yds Passing yds Passes Fumbles lost Pena!tles-yds Coast Guard !.!!i!2n. 8 12 53-190 36-47 4 162. 1·3-0 20-45-2 6 2 7-68 9-80 SPORTSWEEK Friday 10/28 Women's Soccer vs. Russell Sage Men's Soccer at Clarkson Saturday 10/29 Volleyball at Sk·idmore Tourney Men's Soccer at St. Lawrence Women's X-C a1 New York State Meet Field Hockey at Cortland Monday 1 0/31 Men's Soccer at North Adams - JV Football vs Albany 3:30 3:00 9:00 11:00 12 or2 2:00. 7:00 A.lbany State X-C .Invite-A Splash By TWO ANONYMOUS TEAM CAPTAINS -Due to a mysterious ailment, our regular columnist, Harts Schw~. was unable to run this past Saturday. As a result, this colulJln was written by scab writers, Therefore; we, the Cross Country team, apologize for makiQg this article better than anything that Hans has written so far this season.- (Just kidding, Hans. Hope you feel better soon.) ·Regardless of the inclement weather, the team travelled to the 22nd, Annual Albany Invitational, which was held on · the SUNY Albany campus this · past weekend. The Albany Invitational, with over 50 total teams competing, is the largest collegiate meet in New York State. '- The day started off on a strange note when the bus actually arrived on time. This coupled with Hans' absence put the team at a loss for words. The day was full of weird occurrences, the most memorable being a show of leadership by co-captain . Jill! Campoli. Jim, :in his infinite · wisdom, spared us for the third week in a row from Ed \Rliino\ Rothenberg and his own brand of \psycho-babbl~.\ Unfortunately;, the women's team was not so lucky. (Sorry girls, Jim says .he really tried to stop Ed from reading· it to you.) The men's team; finishing 19th out of a field' of28 vrursity teams, was led by a su:ong performance by sophomore Dave Steen. Steen was the team's top finisher, with his first clocking o( under 29 minutes this season (Z8:46) over ·the 5.05 mile course. Following closely behind was sophomore co-captain Mike Martinez in a time of 29: 16. Mi:ke, quite the .slave to fashjon, attracted the most pre- race attentipn ·in sporting his multi-colored tights that the team has come to .taio·w and love. Still psychologically scarred from aU the \real men don't shave their legs\ jokes, sophomore co-captain Doug Martocci proved that he was indeed a real man. With his sprained right ankle taped halfway up to his \you-know- where,\ Doug ran strongly in a time of 30:05, while battling the weather damaged Albany State cour~e. Junior co-captain Jim Campoli finished as Union's fourth finisher in a -time of 3(}:20. Aside from ltis brilliant save of the team from the Rhino, Jim ran his usual say- nothing, all.:business, run-like- a·demi-god type of race that has characterized his running style this season. Rounding off the bizarre day, super-frosh Rich Zemheck, n<mnally a 400 meter hurdler, continued his ·surprise filled season by rounding off Union's top five in a time of 30:59. With his family watching, Rich unleased an earth shattering finish that ''Kicked the Rhino.\ \'** Next up for the ·team is Saturday's race at Cortlandt. Park in the Bronx:. Van Certlandt is the annual site of the National Cross Country Championships held later in the year,, This race wil prove to be the toughest of the season; the course is difficult, and Union will be entering a new league. . Aga:in. we would like to apologize to the girls' tearn and thank them for their support throughout last week's race. Finally, a reminder to the rest of •the team: 1 any seemingly derogatory -statements in .this article can be taken out on. Rans for giving us the opportunity l:() write it •

(f) .:( X:: ·5: 0 8 u 8 0 1- >- CI:I 0 6 :I D. -~ .,...,~~~ nn e scored in overtim.e to bo0st field hockey past Hamilton, and advanced them into the semi-finals round of playoffs. The Women's Socqer team ·record stands at 3-11. Their last game is Friday. October 27, 1988 Dutchmen Defeated By Coast Guard,. 17-10 By ANDREW SEEWALD In what amounted to a microcosm of the 1988 season, mistakes outdid the Union football squad. The Dutchmen entered the game a decided underdog to Coast Guard, despite coming off a 27-0 trouncing of RJ.>I. The Bears were ranked second in New England, and in the top ten overall in their division. Still, the Fighting Dutchmen were not to be sunk without a struggle. Trailing 17-10 with 1: 11 remaining in the game, Union had the ball on their own 20-yard line. A successful drive could have given the Dutchmen the lead. A series of quick passes by quarterback Brett Russ, to Mario DiLoreto and Aaron Root, moved the ball to the Bears' 21-yard line. At that point, time was at a premium and the Dutchmen needed to panch it in the end zone qaickly. The result was familiar; in two of their three losses coming into the game, the Dutchmen saw comeback bids fall short, and this game was no different. Russ was intercepted by Bears' linebacker Ryan Eckholm to seal the Coast Guard victory. Union was forced to play come-from-behind ball because of costly lapses on defense and sloppy play by the kicking injared tailback Ryan Mason, squad. whose straight-ahead style is Braving the rniserable usl!ally more successful in weather, the crowd hardly had a s11ch weather. chance to dry off their seats These circumstances led before Coast Guard connected Union coach AI Bagnoli to for an 83-yard touchdown run. move flanker Steve Hayes into The Bears executed the the backfield, a move that was wishbone triple-option well on . greeted with some success. the play and jum!)ed to a 7-0 Hayes' 12-yard TO run capped a lead. The Dutchmen have not 34-yard third quarter drive that won a game in which they pulled the Dutchmen to witllin have trailed this season. 15-10. From that point on, A 74-yard Coast Guard punt however, Coast Guard's that bounced to the Union 1- wishbone was more of a help yard line set up the Be31's' final than a hurdle for the 2-point score to provide the Dutchmen. The Bears fumble- final margin of 17-10. prone wishbone offense turned * * * the ball over a total of 5 times. But Union was unable to capitalize, and rnisU!kes of their own led to more points for Coast Guard. The Bears increased their lead to 9-0 less than three minutes into the game when, frorn deep in Union's own end, the snap to punter Jason Krause carried over his head and in.to the end zone, where he was tackled for the first of two safeties against the Dutchmen on tile day. The early deficit and the raging elements resulted in a poor day for the Dutchmen on the ground. Horace Griffin, their leading grouj) gainer this year, was neutralized by the soggy turf, as he was not able to make quick cuts 11pfield once outside. Union felt tbe loss of Coast Guard improved to 6-1 as Union dropped to 2-4. Union is now faced with having to win its final two games of the season, both on the road, to avoid its first losing season since 1981. lThc Dutchmen are off this weekend, then travel to Norwich November 5 and Hamilton November 12. • UNION-COAST GUARD BOX SCORES Coast Guard 9 6 0 2- 17 Union 037Q-10 First: CG- Kenny B3 run (Roth kick); CG- safety, Krause tackled In end zone. Second: U- Krause FG; CG- Duermit32 blocked punt return (kick failed). Third: U- Hayes 12 run (Krause kick). Follrth: CG· safety, Russ tackled In end zone. First Dc7Nns Rushes-yds Passing yds Passes Fumbles lost Penaltias-yds Coast Gyard !.!.Dl2n 8 12 53-190 36-47 4 162 1-3-0 2()-.45-2 6 2 7-68 9-80 SPORTSWEEK Friday 1 0/28 Women·s Soccer vs. Russell Sage Men's Soccer at Clarkson 3:30 3:00 Saturday 10/29 Volleyball at Skidmore Tourney 9:00 11 :00 Men's Soccer at St. Lawrence - Women's X-C at New York State ·Meet Field Hockey at Cortland Monday 1 0/31 Men's Soccer at North Adams JV Football vs Albany 12 or 2 2:00 7:00 Albany State X-C Invite-A Splash By TWO ANONYMOUS TEAM CAPTAINS -Due to a mysterious ailment, our regular columnist, Hans Schwarz, was unable to run this past Saturday. As a result, this column was written by scab writers. Therefore, we, the Cross Country team, apologize for making this article better than anything that Hans has written so far this season.- (Just kidding, Hans. Hope you feel better soon.) Regardless of the inclement weather, the team travelled to the 22nd, Annual Albany Invitational, which was held on the SUNY Albany campus this past weekend. The Albany Invitational, with over 50 total teams competing, is the largest collegiate meet in New York State. The day started off on a strange note when the bus actually arrived on time. This coupled with Hans' absence put the team at a loss for words. The day was full of weird occurrences, the most memorable being a show of leadership by co-captain Jim Campoli. Jim, in his infinite wisdom, spared us for the third week in a row from Ed \Rhino\ Rothenberg and his own brand of \psycho-babble.\ Unfortunately, the women's team was not so lucky. (Sorry girls, Jim says he really tried to stop Ed from reading it to you.) The men's team, finishing 19th out of a field of 28 varsity teams, was led by a strong performance by sophomore Dave Steen. Steen was the team's top finisher, with his first clocking of under 29 minutes this season (28:46) over the 5.05 mile course. Following closely behind was sophomore co-captain Mike Martinez in a time of 29:16. Mike, quite the slave to fashion, attracted the most pre- race attention in sporting his multi-colored tights that the team has come to know and love. Still psychologically scarred from all the \real men don't shave their legs\ jokes, sophomore co-captain Doug Martocci proved that he was indeed a real man. With his sprained right ankle taped halfway up to his \you-know- where,\ Doug ran strongly in a time of 30:05, while battling the weather damaged Albany State course. Junior co-captain Jim Campoli finished as Union's fourth finisher in a time of 30:20. Aside from his brilliant save of the team from the Rhino, Jim ran his usual say- nothing, all-business, rtm-like- a-demi-god type ofrace that has characterized his running style this season. Rounding off the bizarre day, super-frosh Rich Zembeck, normally a 400 meter hurdler, continued his surprise filled season by rounding off Union's top five in a time of 30:59. With his family watching, Rich unleased an earth shattering finish that 11 K.icked the Rhino.\ *** Next up for the team is Saturday's race at Cortlandt Park in the Brom,, Van Cortlandt is the annual site of the National Cross Country Championships held later in the year. This race wil prove to be the toughest of the season; the course is difficult, and Union will be entering a new league. Again, we would like to apologize to the girls' team and thank them for their support throughout last week's race. Finally, a reminder to the rest of the team: any seemingly derogatory statements in this article can be taken out on Hans for giving us the opportunity to write it. II

