Vol. CXVII, No. 17 Nott Memorial Foocus of Student Initiative By MELISSA STEWART Late fall term the \RestorE the Nott\ committee was formed by a group of t;hree students concerned with the delapidated state of the Nott Memorial. Over the years, the Nott has be~ome a symbol of Union CollEge and Schenectady. It is Visible in the aerial view over the capita1 district on the Channel 6 news at 6:00 and is flashed on Channel 13 every night as it goes off the air. In these pictures, the true state of deterioration .of this symbol i$ not visible. However, anyone looking at it at close range ·can see the boarded up windows, the missing slate shingles, the missing copper railings, and the disintigrating bonding between. the stones. The part of the Nott that. is suffering the most is the thLrd floor which has been con- demned due to rusting of the cast iron structure and falling plaster from the dome. It is a shame that the public cannot g!l up to the third floor, because .it contains one .of the most beautiful parts of the structure, the dome. The dome is com- posed of brightly colored ~lass ill urninators. each etched With a five pointed star, displayed in a meaningful colored pattern. Since the beginning their en- deavor, \Restore the Nott\ has gained a great deal of student support. The committee has grown rapidly and now has over thirty members. The. organization has three major goals in mind: to educate the See LAND, pg. 3 An Alumni. F!xperi~n.ee ··pg •. , Garwain On SDl· • PI• 13· · MumntQlJ,~cllanzQ .. pg.lS: . Farewell to·. · ··.·· .. ·'Gh;'llili~l-··: - .. WRUC H:olds Electio<ns for Executive Board By CQRISTJNE HONG News Editor Controversy surr10unded the WRUC elections this past Thursday night as three station mt,Jmbers vied for the position of generalmaoager. . .Jim Cirincione won the position by a slim margin of four votes giving him a total of 28 votes out of 57: cast. John Morgan came in second with 24 votes, and Ricb Aguinaldo netted 3votes. The election statements started with a foar minute speech from John Morgan. He discussed his past 'Work at the station and his flltW\e plans. Following, he answeved questions and clarified his \Many people work hard and have a great time at the station· - -Rich made · the statio-n seem li·ke a group of people with selfish interests. The election for G.M. was clearly unfair, though constitutionally legal.\ involvement in the removal of Scott Elkind from <Jffice in 1986. fie stated tha:t he initiated the petition in the intErest of the station and was, furthermore, supported by the other board members. Rich Aguinaldo, followed Morgan with a speech of which · all five minutes were devoted to Morgan's past acti10ns involving · See WRUC, pg. 4 0 . . College 1877 i3 (/) 0:: ~ ~ ?ii ~ ~ Professor Stanley Hoffmann spoke on \The Future of U.S. Foreign Policy.\ Hoffmann Calls for New Ethics-·Oriented Foreign Policy at Founders Day President J()hn S. Morris, Student Forum President Michael Hiller, Professor Ted Bick, chairman of the faculty executive committee, Trustee Peter VanDyck, and Dean of Faculty James Underwood. By DAVID GUI,.LIVER Editor-in-Chief In a time where the super- ~owers are going bankrupt and lesser powers are threatening the idea of a bi-polar world, the United States needs a revitalized foreign policy with an .eD!P.l!~sis. ol). _ _its. etpi~al ... dimension. That was the theme of Stanley Hoffmann's Founders Day speech, ''The Future of U.S. Foreign Policy,'' last Thursday. Hoffmann, the chairman of Harvard's Center for European Studies and Douglas Dillon professor of the civilization of France, received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree at the ceremony. \ * * * Founders D~y celebrated the 193rd anniversary of the granting of Union's charter ·from New York State. The ceremonies opened With an academic procession, with profl;}ssors in cap and gown. Remarks followed from Underwood called Hoffmann \an admiral:Jl(l model\ of Unlonfs ·success, . someone who 1 'walks the tigbtrope between teaching and scholarship.\ Hoffmann has written several important works .in political science, and some of his comments ecb()ed ideas in his book Duties Beyond Borders .. * * * \In this interminable election year... the candidates have so far studiously avoided foreign policy,\ Hoffmann began. He claimed that foreign policy should be priority, especially in a time of change. March 3, 1988 Student Forum Passes New G.E.B. Proposal; Looks To Future Issues BySTEPHANIEJARYNA Last week, the Student Forum concluded its program, Student Forum 011 the Road, meeting in West College. The major focllS of the meeting was the newly rllleased General Education Board Proposal. Jeff Berkowitz gave the Forum members specific explanations concerning elements of the proposal. James Sawyer, a student member of th<e General Education Board, was present and answered numerous questions of the forum mem- bers concerning the rationaliz-~aon- of ·the speeifie elements .in the ptoJ)osal. The Forum spent an hour and a half discussing the fine details of the proposal, voicing discontent that the proposal does not require a computer course and that thE proposal is highly biased toward liberal arts and that it should be more stringent toward sciences. Questions were raised con- cerning thE lack of foreign language classes, scheduling problems, and lack oflabspace. Student Forum Letter Deems Gel .. Change, 1I<>fftnann said, comes in three ways: wars, revo11ltion, and the slow in- crease or decline of economic and military power among the \main players.\ Since World War !1, wars have not played a rnajo; mle; rEvolutions have also been minor, with the possible exception of Iran. A motion was made by David Cohen that the Sttlident Forum support the General Education Board Proposal in its entirety. Discussion followed that motion and showed that although certain members continued to oppose the rigidness of the proposal .many members felt that Union is a liberal arts college and therefore should provide a liberal arts education. Freshman Representative, Dan Waibel remarked; \Education is not an issue of personal preference of .the student but rather a standard of the college, Time Inappropriate for Union , By ELISE F()ODY Ass()ciate News Editor The Academic Affairs Council passed a revision on their once solid p()licy on Gel- Time Tuesday, Feb. 16. Sin(!e then heated debate over the controversial policy has en- sued. TheStudentForutnis now taking this opp()rtune moment to voice their opini()n on the issue. The Forum has C()nstructed a letter that has been sent to the Academic Affai1l\s Council, department chairmen, and several appropriate ad- ministrative offices, which debates the viability of Gel- Time at an institution like Union College. Michael Hiller, President of the Student Forum said that the basic aim of the letter was to \initiate dialogue,; concerning the]'>olicy. He added that the letter concludes that Gel-Time is not apl)ropriate for Union College. The letter draws its information from the Registrar's Office as well as from surveys aad comments from the student body. · There are three goals which Gel-Time set to accomplish when it was first introduced this past year. The first was to create for the college com· munity an atmosphere con- ducive to studying. Because students · have the option of · taking certain classes Monday, Wednesday and Friday or · Tuesday and Thursday, there is · more free time which the Ad- ministration believed could be used for studying. Hiller pointed out that in fact ap- proximately thirty percent of the students surveyed said that they actually used the time to study. He also noted that under Gel-Time there has been an increase in the number of students taking afternooon classes. Under the old system, most students took three classes four days a week and usually managed to keep af- ternoons free. The second g()al of Gel- Time was to put an end to mid-week parties which were frequent See LETTER, pg. 4 There has been a shift in economic and military power, however, as ex:ernplified by the rise of Japan and the European Economic Community and .the problems of the Soviet Union and the United States. Everyone is aware of the danger of the U.S. trade deficit, Hoffmann See DEMOCRACIES, pg. 3 See STUDENT FORUM, pg. 4 , Photo of the Week:Then Spring Came - and there was much rejoicing. l , l ' ' ' i i ,. ' !' .. I' i: ' }.: ., ' , ' ' i·· ). '· l, . ;.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS~ March 3, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS SDI: Not Compatible with Doctrine of Deterrence By DANIEL J. KENIRY Ass01eiate News Editor The colllltry of Moxambique, in Southeast Africa, has the distinctio.n of being \number one\ at S()mething. It is the poorest C()untry in the world. Most coWltries in Africa, upon achieving their independence after W()rld War II or in the 1960's, made significant By EZRASHERM:AN · achievements. Mozambique has dollaiS dD not have to be spent not. It is an absolute shambles. when the job could be done by a The CCiuntry achieved its Richard Garwin's talk last detonllt<lL similar to the one on indepenc;lrence from Portugal in Wednesday, F.ebruary 24, on the booser of the shUttle which . . 1975.- A gt~erilla group called the \INF and the Future.ofNuclear exploc:ies..after separation. Since Fr.ont. for. the. lhl.beration . 0 f Weapons\ was launched from it is inthoe interest of both sides MozambiC[Ue (F.REUM0)· took the perspective a person who is to msllre against an accidental power tllen. They chose an uniquely qualified to judge launc'.h,. !Joth would have reason orthodox form of Marxism- Unite~ States strategic weapons to use th:-e detonators. Leninism as their new · \pO-licy~ Unlike most strategists, Besidesthequesti()nableneed philosophy. Gee, (you're · Garwin is also an expert on for SDl there is this little scratching your head) I wonder nuClear weapons technology, questi!m of feasibility. To begin what thls has done to the which makes his opinions that with sp.ace weapons are con- . economy? · much more compelling. strained by their position in Over 9~ percent of the Mr. Garwin said that one of orbit. Ollly a small percentage populati()n is rural. Agriculture our goalS should be \to improve of orbiting interceptors would occupies 8fi percent of her food our security and make the be stationed in the right place at needs. Sillce 1981, the country Soviets feel more secure as a given time to intercept a has had a growth rate of well.\ The means to doing so Soviet launch. Given the high . negative 8 percent per year. satisfies the basic tenet of · cost.of a Star Wars system, the The interest on Mozambique's deterrence strategy of assuring Soviets could overwhelm the debt is 2.2 times her exports. retaliation to a preemptive number of interceptors by . And these exports are at one- str.ik~. GarWin said we should build:i!lg more ICBMs for far · eighth the level of the imports. . reduce the number .of warheads · cheaJ:)erih.ail it woUld be for the Church relief workers estimate ·while· ·keeping: the. ·number of·. ·.U$. to oountertheir·buildup. A· .. 3 million. people are. starving target!!. To the United States second shortcoming of space there. The governor of the Bank that would mean reducing the weapons is .that they are of Mozambique estimates half number of warheads on vulner-able to attack. Here the poplllation is without food. multiple warhead missiles like again. it would be cheaper to This is.nearly6.5million people. the Minuteman and the MX to disrupttllesystem than it would · These things just don't one apiece. With about 11,000 be t() gllard against attack. \happen.' 9 The real problem of warheads now, a one warhead Meanwhile, the ground-based famine in Mozambique (and in per missle limit would drop us system, while safe for attack, other parts of Africa) is down to about 2 1 000 warheads. would bave to contend with the political. The Mozambican After talking about what we sepal'ated warheads and with National Resistance, or should do to limit warheads and hundreds of decoys. RENAMO, claims to control 85 verify that both sides are As we contemplate putting a percent of the country's complying, a question on SDis domeoverfortressAmerica,we territory. If, it does not control turned Mr. Garwin's attention should ask ourselves whether . it, it certainly terrorizes it. to what we should not do. If we want to have the ability to (RENAMO is backed by South nothing else, suppOrters of SDI launcb. an ~ttack without fear of Africa, Portugal, and Jesse say that we must have Star retaliati()n. We also should ask Helms.) On top of RENAMO, Wars to guard against ac- ourselves if we waat to extend there is ~ed opposition from cidentallaunch. If we laWlched, the arms race to space when we Africa Liwre, the Free Africa the ICBM's could be shot down alre~dy- have credible movemeat. The FRELIMO before they triggered a detexr-e11ts in the form of retaliatory strike by the Soviet ballistic missile submarines Union. And an accidental Soviet and mobile single warhead launch would not necessarily ICBMs. If Reagan gets his way mean a no-holds-barred and Star- Wars is ever deployed response by the United' States. we might just get the un- Mr. Garwin doesn't subscribe to desirablE opportunity to find out that viewpoint. Billions of the effect of a \yes\ answer. Participate· in Dukakis For President Campai.gn CALL: Chris Apostle 785-5673 -. REAPPOINTMENT REVlEVV FOR PROF~ MAFI The Civil Engineering Department is conducting a reappointment· revi:ew for Assistant Professor Mohammad Mafi. ·All members of the college community who have. knowledge of Prof. Mafi's teaching, professional activities, or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to the committee. Anyone who wants to provide input should contact Prof. Tom Jewell, .Chairman of the Civil Eng:ineering Department. - REAPPOINTMENT REyrEW.FOR PROF. LEE . The Civil Engineering Department is conducting a reappoint- ment review for Associate Professor Keen Lee. All members of the college community wko have knowledge of Prof. Lee's teaching, professional activities, or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written ot~ oral testimony to the committee. Anyone who wants to provide input should contact Prof. Tom Jewell, Chairman of the Civil Engineering Depart;. ment. Guns and Butter Politics· in Mozambique ,, to the West, a«!cepting President Reagan's ~1 ~illion .in aid (and an e~~ttn~rked ~5 million for food), ·ll!ld' alloWing British troops to :train their soldiers. government spends aid money on armaments, and simply forgets the food. Their interest is in staying in. pow:er,'aad th~y can't do it with a qp,ickly gtowin-g insurgen«:y. The populati.on has twin ailments Qf a civil war and :no food. National' Review vorries that }4Dzambiqu.e has the potential. tllere are streets m!UIJ.ed after Bllt a ·Ciliribination of inisled Friedrich Engels md: Ho Chi alliance$.(with theSo\iet Bloc), 'Minh in Maputo. l Slly, \big outdated economic J»licies, and dealO'' This igll~r~s some reccurriruc human rigbts political realities~ ·neiproblems ViolatiDns :has led tl:te country are twofold: food ~ru;i.~Juns, n()t into deep trouble. one or the other. If ihe .struggle . Economic trouble and civil 'for Mozambiql!e is for , war? Yo.U;gue~se.dit: re~ugees. Mozambique an:dl !lOt \the Neigh~l,',.i,ng ·c0.unt.Iie~. ~alawi, , . vangu~rd, of ~he .(;Jr(Jl~taJ,'iat,.\ Zimba,bwe,. ~ Zambia baye 'fhen. l\{p~8plb.i<rue,. eail, ~urn to accepted hundr~ds:Of thpusands . tlle, .W'~st;: :~~N~MO', is sup- of refugees. It 1s safer to cross pos~dlY growing,. ' .but· amDng the border and escape than to :who? Nearly Eiler:y,'one is stay. starving. There is :no desire to At the beg·innin,g of the engage in politic.al ad:ivity if FRELIMO Resistance :vouhavenofood. ran~aniaand movement, September, 1967, ZiniQabwe· have committed they set out with. tl\e p~oper troops for the FBELIMO goals: \a new Mo2amb1que, government. SoUth! Africa has where there will be no hunger supposedly halted its usistance and_ wher::e all men will be free to RENA.MO. But ve have IiDt and equal ... in order to build the~- seriously seen ~tDatb Africa Mozambique that we want, we · adhere to any eommitment. must first destroy the Por- This Civil War C()Uld snowball tuguese colonial system.'\ into a very la:r~e regional These we&e the goals of conflict: Eduardo Mondlane, · the fii,-st Snowball. Bob (l-eld()f wmte, Pr..eshl.ent . of FRELIMO. By ~'There won~t be sn.1lw in Mrica 1975, the Portugl!ese had this Christmas time. The packed it up and ho()fed it. The greatest gift th~y'll get this year spirit of anti-colonialism is life.\ [fl that sucllagreat gift, combined with a bit of global- in a land with IIQ foc;>d and pOlitical naivete perhaps led conf!tant · warfaJe·? Moza:m• FRELIMO to choose the Soviets bicans struggle to a.1tain a meal. over the U.S. But since the early In America, Micltael- Jackson 1980's, Mozambique _has come purchases 32 ca~s <lf mineral 'amund. It is making. overt'ures water to bathe in. Union Review Of Books :March .Selection James Gl,eick CliAOS: MAKING A, NEW SCIENCE (1:9.67) Wednesday, March 9, 1988 College Center Cabaret, 1 :00 Moderator: Professor David Peak \I was caught up and swept along by the flow of this astonishing chronicle of sci'entifi.c thought. It has been along, long time since I finished a boQk and immediately startEd reading it all over again for sheer pleasure.\ ·-Lewis Thomas, author of uves OF .A CELl.. \This is stunnlng work, a deeply exciting subject ' in the hands of a first-rate science wriier. The '· implications of. the research James G Ieick sets forth are breathtaking~::Barry Lopez, author O.f ARTIC 'DREAMS . IIG:Ieick's CHAOS is not only enthralling and precise, but 1ull of beautifully strange ar:~d sitang.ely be.autiful ideas.'' ~-Douglas Hofstadter author of GODE_L, ESCHER3 BACH E ~ COJ COF brc No A~ ·ho) COl pol she thE ,po1 Shl of stt ] ch tr( thl Pr ov thl gr an lec te1 re .Qll wl ar nc in ai nc w M at pi m A al n4 rE a ... 1[ rt a: p n I g ~

CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 Page 3 AWARE Presents ''Not A Love Story\ Screening Aimed at Educating Campus On Eve of Porn Movie By SUSAN SliAFFER AWARE, following their commitment to inform the community of social issues, brought the film Pornogt·aphy: Not a Love Story to campus. AWARE sponsored. the film in ·hopes of educating the Union commUnity to the effects of pornography. The film was shown to a full house .in SS016 the night before the- actual .pomographic movie would be shown.· The audience consisted of meri and _women, faculty and students. . Mary Ann Punham, co- chairperson of . AWARE, in- troduced Prof. Ken I>eBono of the . p.sychology department. Prof! . DeBono gave a brief . overview of the film. He warned: · the audience of its explicit and graphic nature and that it was an experimental film and not a lecture. He advised the at· tendants to keep track oi their reactions, feelings and questions · for the discussion ·which followed the fibn. The filin itself was based on an investigation of por- nography. Many people were interviewed includingthose who are involved with the por- . nography industry and those who were affected by it. Magazine editors, actresses and actors; peep show owners. photographers and theater . owners expressed their views~ Authors and others who weFe affected negatively by por- nography were als() represented. The film followed a sex show star's investigation int~ ·pornograp}ly 'an'd heL\'. reactions.· · The film also Cited evidence as to, the growing size of the pornographic industry. Por- nographic magazines have a greater circulation than Time and Newsweek combined. In Canada, pornographic films outsell straight films 3 to 1. Pornographic tneaters gross $10 million a week and there are fonr times as many peep show theaters than McDonalds .. Aitbough the industry is constantly growing, more women are being affected by it. One particular scene which· evoked· a reaction from the audience was a Hustler ·cover which featured a woman being ground in a meat grinder. This attitude towards women is what pornographic movies convey. A Canadian magazine editor said that the greatest turn on to men is to .have a woman kneeling at his feet. He continued to say that men enjoy dominating women. The .film, which was about an hour in length, was followed by di,scussion. The discussion was a key part of the program for it allowed the audience to relate the problems that the film expressed to themselves. The audience's reaction to the film was mixed. Many were sur- prised at its gr.aphic content. Some women commented that they had never eally thought about how pornography could affect society and themselves. They also stated that upon thinking about it they felt threatened. One man said that he also felt· threatened by pornographic movies since they often lead women to believe that all men ·wish to be .aggressive and domineering. The question as to whether or not Union should brJng the movie to . campus was · again addressed. There-was a general agreement that there is really no place for pornography in society' and that hopefully one day no one will want to view pornographic fihns. SCHAFFER LIBRARY-EXTENDED EXAM HOURS MONDAY, MARCH7-THUR$0AY, MARCH 17 THE LIBRARY WILL BE OPEN FROM 11 PM TO 1 AM FOR STUDYING ONLY No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No reference desk services. please help us keep food and cJrink restricted to the All Night Stuqy Area. Tllarik you. . WINTER • spltiN:G ~.SUMMER • FALL STUDY FOR ON'E YEAR OR LESS AT OXFORD ~e~eral Coll~ges of Oxford Univ~r~ity have mvlted WISC-to reco~end qualified .s~~ents to study under the. tut<Jnal system as Vtsitmg Students or Assoctate Students for one year or for one or two terms. Upper Sophom.ore status . · is required, and graduate study ts available. Integrated student housing, socifll activities, tours offered by WISC. A ~pec1al summer session is directed by WISC. · Past student e-valuations available. INTERN IN WASHINGTON SUMMER1988 Pre-professional program: i,ntemship~jn Congress, the media, the White House, think tanks, etc. Related courses in Government ~r Journalism. The W asbington lllternational Studies Center Room 713A. 901 Six Street SW ~ Wa8hin.gton, DC 20024 (202) 337 e'J78/fJ379 · (130/AA) T:he Nott Memorial, currently the focus of att~ntion. Landmark' s_ Deteriorating Condition Calls for Renovation Continued from page 1 Union Coll~ge community and . residents of the capital district about the present condition .of · the Nott Memorial, to raise funds for the restoration in- cluding money from the .state, and to suggest future uses of the space available. \Restore the Nott\ is gathering ideas which will be presented to the ad- ministntion at a later date in the form of an official pr()posal. Some of the suggestions made include a museum, lounges or study areas, office space, and a meeting facility. The group feels· it is of the utmost im- ' raise IJillllic knowledge and funds. 'The committee is presently w()rking . with the administr-ation to achieve their goals. Tile administration has recently begun their drive toward l\'aising funds~ In an attempt. to illustrate the strong support ()f the college com- munity tl)ward their efforts:, the · committee is circulating a petition -which presently has over 70Cl. signatures, including students,. faculty, and ad- ministration. The group is continl!ing to hold meetings to · plan futnre activities. Next term tile committee hopes to kick off i~ fund drive as well as continue to educate people Democracies Should Push Morals in · Internati;onal Arena, Hoffmann Says Continued from page 1 said, \with the possible ex- ception of the President.\ He cited the decline of technological superiority, the . type of export products {resembling those of a developing country) as signs that the U.S. has sllffered a ''loss of control over its assets.'' The Soviet Union is in a similar position. Tiley are · experiencing a zero, lll:\ possibly negative, growth rate in their economy, and Gllrbachev's reforms are .addres~ing the inefficiency in the economy. · 'Their recent \request for the . liquidation of the Cold War,\ most visible in eff()rts on the INF treaty, shows that \the burden of being a su.perpower has become a heavy cne.\ Hoffmann stressed that neither the Soviet Unilln nor the United States have ''given up their -ultimate goal; \ of im- posing their respective ideology on the wodd, but tbat those goals are really \visbes and hopes ... not policies.\ . ln today's world, HoffmanQ. said, the superpowErs can no longer dictate to small nations, who have developed effective means of resistance. . portance to restore the building keeping its original intent in mind. · The committee has been dealing with interested outside organizations . incl11ding the Schenectady County Historical Societywhich strongly supports · a boat tile N ott and discuss ideas for future usage of the building. The grotlp asks for your support and your signature. &h!>W your . . · support oor the Nott Mem.,rial a prevalel!t. · symbol· . of Union · College~ Therefore, today is a time of \en6rmous opportunites and enormous risks.\ Tile greatest danger, Hoffmann said, is \simply clinging to the familiar.\ He compared the Cold War to a \cruise that goes onforever ... to nowbe.re.\ :\People w.ill . ~o .a~ost \lnything to flee froi.Il tmnlting ... . the corrunittee's attempts to Castelto•s Re·sta·urant Eat in or take out 10.% discount with Union College J.D ... lHE BEST IN ITALIAN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki, Gyros, Wine and Beer Veal Parmesan with spaghetti and salad. Bqked .lasagna with. cheese and sdlad . . ~ . $8.50 $4.95 Casteno;·s Pizza· & Restaurant 1487 State St., Schenectady 'Will Deliver 3Z4-0581 This Week's Events THURSDAY, MARCH 3 8 am - 5 pm Old Chapel. CDC sponsors: recruiting 3~5:30 & 7-8:30 pm College Center Au<L Capital District Counseling Association workshof>. 4:45 pm College Center Aud. Physics Department Colloquium with Attila Csaji on \Physics as Art: All Artist Working with Laser and Holgraphy.\ 6:!30· 9 pm Hale House. CDC sponsors: recruiters. 8-10 pm~Atrium. Concert: Dutch Piop~rs and Garnet Minstrels. FRIDA'{ MARCH 4 8 an-6 pm Old Chapel. CDC sponsors : recruiters Noon-1 pm College Center 404 B MertOtn. tapes discussion 4-5:30 pm College Center 406. German Club social. 5-9:30 pm College Center Atrium. Dutc:hman's night. 7, 9,11 pm College Center Aud. Film: Th.e Big Easy 7 pm - 2 am Old Chapel. Social Alternative Club sponsors MD Danceathon. SATURDAY MARCH5 7,9, 11 pm College Center Aud. film: Tl1e Big Easy S pm - 1 am Old Chapel. Residence Lif& Formal. · SUNDAY, MAROH 6 3 pm Memorial Chapel. Octavos Concart. Jot. l(:·atthe current ea11didates,\ Ifoffh~~nn· said. He noted the tendency in foreigll policy, typified by Zbigniew Brezinski and Henry Kissinger, of \selective paranoia 3 \ where the Cold War is everywhere and technology is the answer. A \revitalization'\ of U.S. foreign policy is needed. He cited tijree main areas for improvement. The first Is a \systematic effort ~t pursuing various directions of . arms proposed. 50. percent· r.eduetion in nuclear forces\ and a reduction in co11ventional forces. However, he- stressed, that should be done \without undermining deterrEnce.\ A total defense, like that of SDI, he called a ''pipe dream.'' Now that small n.ations are developing more power, capabilities, and ambition, Hoffmann said, w~ are in a \less manageable world,\ the U.S. needs an \active diplomacy\ whkh would \reduce conflict between the centers of power.\ Mobilization of other countries allld economic assistance, rather tl!an military assistance, are of greater importance now. \If we do want a much more uncontrollable world to be safe... (we) must reduce the gap between acceptable and unacceptable beba:vior\ in international relati~ns, Hoff. mann said. He called for a system wherein tile western democracies could recognize a common level of rncrality and focus on ''eliminating the worst evils\ that would violate that standard. Nati()ns should remove \the most extreme forms... violence, economic misery, and secrecy.\ Th()se forms appear most <Often in the areas of human rights, distributive justice, and arms control. Nations should, therefore, uphold a certain levEl of human rights and standar<ls of living. Many' .states vi()late their See DEMOCRACIES, pg. 4 i ' i f i ' ! ' i ~~ ' i! ·; i .. I' \' I ;

. Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 Hiller Comments on Gel- Time Letter A.A.C., Dept. Chairs:~ Administration Sent Copies of Forum Document Continued from page 1 prior . to the new policy. Members of the Student Forum maintain that n<>w every night is a potential night for parties. Hiller also said that noise from the parties now can be heard all the time and he sympathized with those students. living in dormitories such as Davidson, Fox and Hickok House which are surrounded by fraternity houses. He also stated that Gel- Time has \effectively in- creased mid-week partying to r. ridiculously high level...and it changes the way we work and relax:.'' The third goal of Gel-Time was to reduce academic pressure. The plan's intent was for students-to take a class and subsequently have a free day for the material to \gel\ therefore enabling a better understanding of the class material. The surveys' results indicate that nearly all students believe classes are too long and that pressure has increased or at least remained the same. Many believe that . the long breaks between classes act against retaining the information gained in class. Hiller also mentioned that there was no historical justification for Gel-Time and that a plan similar to Union's was originally proposed for sch(){)ls on a semester system. He stated that there were two other schools who were both on trimesters and had Gel-Time. However, these schools (Northwestern and Dartmouth) were not in comparable situations with Union. Students at. Northwestern take four classes a term. and students at Dartmouth have . several morning classes, and afternoon classes which are scheduled according to a similar Gel-Time policy. The Student Forum will meet on Thursday, March 3 and will f()cus their attention on academic issues, including some specific problems caused by Gel-Time. The Forum asserts that under Gel-Time, professors do not maintain office hours on days they do not have class. Another problem the Forum wants to address is that many professors can only teach a certain percentage of material within a specific. time frame and rush to finish their teaching material in the last few classes. Finally, Hiller stated that \there are some disciplines such as mathematics and modern languages which need every day reinforcement.\ When originally accepted by the Academic Affairs .Council, Gel-Time was to have a two year trial period during which no changes were to be made. They advised against reviewing the policy before the trial period ended because they believed doing so would not give the policy a long enough period to actually fulfill what it was meant to.accomplish. But with the recent adiditon of a math time slot in the schedule and the changes in class time for next year, Hiller hopes that the A.A.C. will recognize the other flaws of Gel- Time that are \just as im- portant and just as visible.'' He . stressed ihat he was \interested to see how a responsible effort will be greeted by the fauclty and administration. (I) en- ccurage the faculty to receive tbis with the seriousness with whlch it was written.\ · · · Student Forum Reflects on Term Activities of Past Continued from. page 1 ... Union College has the responsibility to provide general education to all of its students.'' The motion was passed with ten members voting in favor of it while two members voted · against the proposal and two · abstained. The forum then went on to address proposed revisions to Gel Time. The Gel Time Conunittee presented a . rough · draft of the letter which they will be sending to the A.A.C. After reading and offering constructive criticism to the format of the letter, a motion was made that the letter be approved by the Forum to be then further amended and again approved by the · Ex:ecutive Board of the Student Forum before being sent to the A.A.C. This motion was passed by an incredibly large margin. New business included the Forum being addressed by a representative of the Graduate Students inquiring how it may be possible for interested Graduate Students to par- ticipate in college cornmn:titY activities. It appears that smce the graduate students do not pay a Student Activity fee th~y are not eligible to vote m elections or polls on campus nor eligible to join clubs. C?eri Lynn Macky, Vice President . of Administration, will be lookmg into this rna tter. Finally, John Meier, Freshman Representative, voiced to the Forum a concern expressed to him by a freshman student that the twenty minute interval between classes, as a result of the Gel Time schedule, promotes a chaotic a~d inef- ficient atmosphere m the College Center. This concern was handed over to the A.A.C. representative, Berkowitz who will direct the complaint through the proper channels. Overall, the Student Forum saw a productive winter tenn. The Forum both implemented and analyzed a Gel Time Survey in which they were a~le to achieve a comprehensive analysis of the students' views .of Gel Time. They were also able to 'put a finger on' specific inherent and incidental problems of Gel Time. The Student Forum also ran successful winter term elec- tions as well as formulated and presented additions to the c!lfrent parking policy. The forum helped in the one . day presentation of the corruruttee on Aids, ensured prope~ and fair analysis of the showmg of tbe pornographic film, and they supported the initiative of the Inter Fraternity Council to investigate the. p:esent problems in the soc1al pohcy on campus. Members of the forum are looking forward to an equally productive Spring Term. Possible issues for further work on the forum will include follow- up on the Gel Time issue and follow-up on the G.E.B. Pr()posal. Members of the forum also see the possibility of addressing issues of the College Center and of the Social Policy on campus. As always, the forum will be holding open meetings and encourages in- volvement of the entire student body. WRUC Elections Spark Intense Debate Betwe~en· Candidates Continued from J)age 1 WRUC. He attributed Morgan's actio11s to personal and not station interest. \\ Cirincione was the third candidate to speak to the cr~wd assembled in the College Center Auditorium. He' turned to his past experience a~ technical manager as a good background for the position ·of the general manager. He also mentioned his involvement in the station's · move from Old Chapel to the College Center as furtller crite·ria for his election. R()bert Goldstein, current WRtJC general manager coiEillented on the G.M. elec- tion results, stating that, ''many people work hard and have a great time at the station. Ricil. made the station seem like a gr.oup of people with selfish . interests .. \ He went on to add, \The election for · General Man~ger was clearly unfair, though constitutionally legal.\ Other positions that were up for election on the Executive Board were programming manager, technical manager, business manager, aBd promotional manager. Nini Mehta and Ed Koval were tied for tbe position of programming man.ager with Mehta winning the second roWld after a question an:d answer session held to break the tie. Bruce Pennypacker capt1,1red the position of technical manager beating Ricll~ Aguinaldo by a New WRUC G.M. Cirincione wide margin. John Morgan was electe<\. business manager over Rich Aguinald() by a wide margin, and Karen Schaefer beat Bans Schwartz for promotional manager also by a wide margin. Terms of office start th,e first day of the spring term and last one year. Each person had to be nominated as a candidate, and then the minination had to be seconded. Bach candidate had five minutes f()r his/her speecll and questions. aft~r which a paper ballot v&te was taken. The candidate with a majority cf votes wins. lf none of the candidates have a majority, the vote is retaken witll the top two vote-takers as the only can- didates. Goldstein released a letter addressed to the campus abQut ThUFsday's. eleqtions and the station's general progress. Concerned. wi~h tile. conttQversy surrounding the elections and statements made about WRUC in the course of election statements, the letter focused on the accomplishments that the station ha~e made over the past term as well as plans for the spring. According to the letter, the recent bumper sticker sale raised $170 for- the lJ nited Way. Representatives were also able to attend a college radio convention in New York City. For the rematnder of the term, a tour- of the radio station is planned for the first grade class from Elnier Elen1entary School. Goldstein conchtded his letter by saying, ' 'I feel that the positive direction the station has taken in the past few years can only contribute under this new group of responsible and creative students. Emergency Medical Sq:IJad Developing On Campus EyR. REED WHIDDEN News Editor The establishment of the Uni<ln College Emergency Medical Squad is underway. Unio11 is among the last colleges in the area to create one, and David Markinson and Darrin D' Agostino feel it is time to join those with existing volunteer emergency medical treatment systems. It is not the case, however, that the College neglects someone who is injured. There is certain protocol to follow in the instance of injury. What Markenson and D' Agostino hope to do is offer a service that is more effective in a sense of time. The protocol for aiding an injured person is as follows: first. College Security is notifled. Security would then have to assess the situation, and if needed they would have to stablilize the patient. If it is so eval11ated, outside help would be called, either Mohawk Ambulance service or the Fire Paramedics would respond to the call. Upon arrival, they too, would need to define the state of the injured party. This process coulcl be very time consuming, and possible precious time .'!ould be lost in very serious situations. Squad members could . reach the scene and prepare the patient for im- medi-ate transport when help arrives. The services of the squad would be offered 24 hours a day, seven days a week. Those on the squad would be trained in CPR, Advanced First Aid, First Responder, or as an Emergency Medical Technician (.EMT). The directors of operations that head the squad would have Emergency Medical Technician training. A Supervisor ·of EMT level training or higher would be on every shlft. In addition, a · member of tbe squad Will have a seat on the Red Cross Com- mittee on Community Health and Safety. Services. This sq11ad W()ul:d not only offer emergency medical assistancet but those members who are ·Certified would also teach cotlr3es and run lectures on first aid and safety. Much of tbe · preliminary leg work to begin the formation of . this squ~d has already been . completed • .Approval from the New York Department of Health has been granted, and the appropriate papers are now being filed witll the New York Department of State. Presentati()r:JS have been made to both the Student Forum and the Inter-Fraternity Council. The IFC and the Student Forum are willing to give their support and help to this endeavor. Joseph Mammola, dean of students and Paul Mantica, assistant director of safety and security, .have met with the . students. E~ch. has expressed his support and given his suggestions f()r the project. Mantika has had experience in setting up tills sort of operation with the Rotterdam Police in 1979. What role he will play is as of yet undetennined, however, he would be '\m()re than happy to act in any capacity to support and promote the program to the degree the administration will . permit.\ Many queSti()ns, howevet, must be asked in light of such a proposal. The first main question is.that of need. For the cost and time commitment asked, Will the nwnber of emergencies the squad could take care <>f truly make the difference? From this question stems others concerning that of fielding rnanpcw:er-will there After 4 Years. •• be enough interest from volWlteers to be prepared to C()mmit to a 24-hoUt-seven day a weelt service'{ otller questions concerning liability and in- surance, method .()f operation, protocol, certification, and finally funding arise. .Many of these details have been smoothed out. A stability factor must be involved as well. The students involved will graduate, and during their <lays at Union their time cb'uld not possibly be totally devoted t() the program. The squad would also need to be properly equipped. Acquiring vehicle for transport of equipment and personnel, and · equipment for com- munication would be among the other obstacles the squad will face. When and if this program gets off the ground., Markenson and I>' Agostino see it ~s a beneficial addition to the College. MarkenS<In commented; \We're not replacing anything, just addin,g to the current system.'' Democracies . . Continued frorn page 3 citizens' essential rights, and western democracies judge rights. There is also a tremendous disp.arity between the standard of living in the developed nations and the third and fourth worlds. The U.S. and other demc;cracies, should place those ideas foremost in their \definition of national interest.\ \It is a ... largE challenge to the discipline of international relations,\ one that would break current C()nventions and models, but, Hoffmann claimed a move necessary for the U.S. in the future. .ARE YOU GO·ING TO GRADUATE?? Let Everyone know you've survived 4 years at Union! Order GRADUATION ANNOUNCEMENTS frorn Mrs. Marra in room 408 College Genter Deadline: Friday, March 4. $.75 each or $10 for 50 personalized with YOUR name ORDER YOURS NOWI! -

CONCORDIENSJS, March 3, 1988 Page 5 FEATURES Talk. ·or the Town Concordiensis recently asked: \)vhat did you think of the Olympics?,., \We bel1eve the Olympic.s were really lame, we're just waitir.lg for beer pong to become anolympic event\ Perry Levy '89, Joel Berard 7? Photos and Interviews by Stan .Kitzinger \It was a very sad moment when Jansen iell.\ Lis!il Rice '89 \I think .its too bad that the Americans didn't do any better~ We better kick ass in the summer games.\ Chris Smith '89 \I had too much work to do so I didn't g.et to see very much.\ Liz Wallach '89 \I thought ey didn't show enough events, and I thought it was funny when 1\atarjna Witt blew off Tomba. I was disappointed that Will Leahy didn't make the Luge .team.\ John Gobron '89 Waitin'g for the Doctor High School Students Opt For Summer of Studies By SUSAN SHAFFEJ:t Ate you bored today? Wishing for some excitement? You shQuld go and ''wait for the Poctor\! I was feeling under the weather today so on my way home from regist.ering I decided to stop by the in- firmary. UpQn arriving I was informed by the nurse that the Doctor would soon be arriving and that·it woUld. be beneficial if I were te wait for .him~ I am so glad that r did for I found that hour of waiting to be hilarious. The wait did not seem long, however, for a friend of mine was also waiting to see the Doctor. She wasthere, however, for a hurt wrist. This entitled her to a bag of ice with which she was able to entertain her- self. She did not realize that she was entertaining me. I sat there and took mental notes for I knew that the situation seemed ridiculous enough to write about. As we were waiting .others arrived to see the. Doctor .. Sick people are not usually happy people but tbose waiting did not seem t~o uncomfortable. One student had lost her voice a week ago. She carried a pad aroWld in order to communicate with otbers. She wrote that her advisor had called her the .perfect woman - she was at- tractive and She couldn't talk. One point of interest was that everyone who was waiting to see the Doctor used the same thermometer. 'The sterile cover was changed yet it was still the same thermometer. The first person to use it had a normal temperature. Upon nearing this someone commented ''Nonnal? No one on this campus is nor- mal!'' '.l,'he st11.dent who had no voice opened her mouth to remove the iherinometer in order to read it witho,ut realizing that it is only;.readable .when. in tb~ IJ\OUtp .. Theretore She had to .sit tllere 'With it m her mouth twice as long, which wasn't so bad since she couldn't talk anyway. The final person to use it was for-gotten about and sat there for several minutes before the nurse remembered that he was tl!ere. ' When evEryone'S tem- peratures had been taken the Do.ctor still bad not arrived. Whenever an:vone entered the infirmary all heads turned in anticipation of the Doctor's arriv;:tl, As people ente11ed we discussed what the proper Doctor would look like. One ·man came i!1to the infirmary wearing ragged jeans, flanrtel shirt, dirty ha11ds and beer belly and we were sure that he was the Doctor. We were wrong however. Otll.ers entered, saw the long line and quickly ran away. When the Doctor finally arrived the nurse guaranteed us that we would all be out of the infirmary within 20 minutes. Why should college,-bound. high school students choose to spend a summer vacation studying? They're joining nearly 100 of their peers from . aroimd the country this swnmer · in The :College Experience - three credit programs for high school juniors and seniors sponsored by Union C()llege. The College Experience provides a bridge between high school and college, offering firsthand participation in a small private college -with high academtc standards and a special opportunity to begin answering some questions - What should I study'? How . dif~erent . will it be from high . . ' . . •' ~~·· ' The student with no voice wrote \Quality care, out in 5.9 minutes or we'll refund your money.\ We were unable to see the Doctor for another 20 minutes after he arrived since he was on the phone with tbe mayor. I guess the mayor was sick and looking for \quality care.'' The wait was worth it however for never before had I seen people go .in and out of an office so .fast. Upon inquiring how the D()ctor was able to diagnose so quickly I was told that those with headaches were given bancl.aids f()r their foreheads. · Currently I am taking Tylenol and waiting for the end of my cold to arrive, which is what the Doctor told me to do. Somehow it does not .seem fair for me to suffer for these days since I am taking care of myself. The suffering is worth it for I was able to have a very funny a!· ternoon. . ' .. ~ ... \' ........ J ... - .. ... \ •• \ .. ' . \' ~ > ....... ~ ' \' ...... \0 ,. > ~ ... o ' L < 0 .. < 0 • o • school? Is my reading fast enougb, and my writing good enough? Instead of just spending a summer, students are investing in it - using the program to get a head start on college, develop verbal skills, or build con- fidence in making choices about college. Offered are three programs: six weeks at Union College, two weeks at Union and four at Cambridge University in England, or one week at Union and four at the University of Tours in France. ''I was kind of scared coming here,\ said Steven Horowitz of Stamford, Conn., a high school j~ior. wbo 1~~ yea1; spent his sUIIUiler ..at Union .:College: ''I iiriagined the. pro(essrir$ woulp act so big and important, and not want to spend any time with you. I was quite impressed with what I foWld out about them. They didn't condescend to me at all.\ Jeanne Naujeck of Oneonta, N.Y., who attended the 1987 session before her senior year of high school, said she was im- pressed with the teachers. ''What I find is that the teachers are so different from high school. It seems like they know more and know how to get it across to you. When you walk into a classroom in college, you get a sense that the teacher is assuming you are there to learn.\ And time outside of the classroom is well spent. Dorm life proved to be a bonus for manyofthe students, who found they could quickly establish friendships with people from diverse backgrounds. \The co- ed donn is nice because it makes a great environment fQr talking and getting to know people,\ said Sean Sapone of Ridgefield, Conn., who spent last .summer at Union. Con- versations, he said, ran the· gamut from fashion to religion. Students who stay at Union for the summer will immerse themselves in the cultural, .intellectual and recreational life of one of America's oldest and most prestigious small liberal arts colleges. Students take two courses, the Freshman Preceptorial and one elective, and reside in one of the College's dormitories Wlder the supervision of Advisors. Course include biology, economics and science. Resident offerings calculus, computer Those at Cambridge will begin the program with two weeks at Union, and then six in England at one of the world's oldest and finest centers of learning. Once there, st!ldents will learn about England through two college courses and exposure to local history, en- tertainment and customs. South of Paris is the Loire Valley -France's picturesque chateau country - students absorb French langmage and culture at L' Institute de Tblitaine · of the · UniVersity Of Tout'~r; ·A!t·er-on'~ wee]t ~'t 'Oilton; students will spend four weeks living with French families in Tours, and studying with a member of the University of Tolirs faculty. Sapone and many of his fellow students found that The College Experience provided a unique opportW1ity. \It's r~ally great because not only is it giving you a taste of what college life is like, but' it also helps you get into the college you want. If you prove •hat you can do the college work, and you've already done it as a high school jWlior, things like the SATs become much less important. \ 1 A summer's enrollment in the College Experience at Schenectady costs $2,200. For conunuters living at hoJile, the cost is $1,200. Fee for the Cambridge program is $3,185. The Tours program fee is $2,990. Financial aid is available. The College Experience programs begin June 26. Candidates are asked to submit an application with transcripts and a recommendation from a counselor by May 30 for the Union College program, and April4 for the Cambridge and Tours programs. Application fee is $15. Because of a rolling admissions process, early applicants will receive first preference in elective courses. For more information, contact The College Experience, Graduate and Continuing Studies, Union College, Wells House, l Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308; (518) 37~288. ,. ' ' I . ., )' i. r I t. . 1 'I .. . •'

Page 6 · CONCORDIENSlS,. March 3,- 1988 FEATURE.S father g_()t. . · . . : .. · . . . out thlnlSands,. for. yQur.. educatio.n and decided to use your Fall- term tuition money as a dowri\ a .·. . case~ .. . . that certain r;~~ces .. pre.¢lu,ded the fttherts Clalxn that he was not abliged .to _ support his son The Court CLASS OF '89 Semi- g:orma{ RAMADA INN FREE TICKETS AVAILJt\BLE IN COLLEGE CENTER 37+7441 • Daneeweatl •Magie! · @ •Make·Upt· ,'1.\0 Jo-in in •Clown _.!l,V the fun! Supplies! ~ (11 •And MOREl ~ -- Jf. 102CH030 Barrett St.. (off Union) Scheneetady ~ Northway Mall u.tlTW TH'9 CouPON .. k Out to Eat with Hersh and Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Cornell's Restauaot- The smaH sign in the vestibUle called it · the \new'' CorneU'.s, an(i indeed,. tile restaurant seemed a lighter and more cheerful place than I · remembered fr()m freshman ' year. The deem: was simple a!ld tasteful, with a fresh appeal Even the semi-.partitioned. bar room, complete with television, did not detract from it. What has not changed is Cornell's being a moderately pric;ed Italian restaurant. The evening started with some of the hest bread we have encountered: ill: was soft and moist on the inside, with .a wonderfully crunch crust. Our water glasses were filled and we looked over-Cornell's me11u~ The appetizers· inCluded clams, shrimp, oysters, and three kinds of mushf()om \caps.\ The entrees, divide:d into chicken, pasta and veal, were the st.andard, but by no means, -limited choices. Also offered were steaks and an after-10 p.m. menu with sandwiches and omelettes. Sharing an ~order of shrimp scampi was a mixed blessing. The shrimp were large and succulent, and the sauce was perfectly fl&vored. Unfor- tunately, the order, at $5.!)5, only included thtee shrimp, and we coUld have eaten many · more. We asked for more bread to dip in the delicious butte(y sauce. Our salads were large and hearty, incl;uding . lettuce, Big Brothers and Sisters of Albmny County. Inc. 649 SiATE S1REET • II.LI3ANY, NEW YORK 1:::1203 h ' :riis -TYPING PLACE-: ' ' , •Profe11lond •Ellperlonced •Tim•lr 1 ' The Place To Tala All V'our Typing Needs I : STATE OF THE ART EQUIPMENT : ' 319-0980 ' ' 10~ DISCOUNT WITH THIS.ADI' ·------------·--- Concerned For The Hungry? Volunteers needed for an hour or two .. Help sort food to be distributed to the >food .pantries of Schenectadlf. Meet Karen Sapio and Sr. Joan at hoon on Saturday, · March 5th at the Colleg~ . Center to drive to .BelleVlle Reformed. C.muct). tomato, carrots~ onions and mushrooms. Everythill.g w:as reasonably fresh and tasty, but the overly greasy croutons were not pleasing. My Italian dressing was a bit sweet and oily, but perfectly acceptable; Hersh's bleu cheese was about average, he felt. · I chose the chicken cordon bleu and Hersh ·had the veal parmigiani; bQth were $9.95. After a bit of a wait, they arrived, very hot . and very large. Hersh's impression of the vef,ll (which I agreed with) was that it was good, but just not great. The sauce and cheese were fine, and it was certainly a generous portion, but somehow the veal wasjust not top notch. I felt my chicken also lacked that elusive quality that elevates . food from good to very good Smothered in a ·strong Hollandaise sauce and stUffed with ham and cheese,. the chicken was big and satisfying, but not memorable. My ziti and Hersh's spaghetti: were reasonably tasty side orders; both were large enough to be meals on their own. · · Our waitress, who through tile evening was attentive and capab~e, if a bit_ uninterested, brought us two delightflll homemade, ch~;~colate chip cookies to accompany oar coffee and tea; We left Cornell's contented and very full. Based on our 1-10 point rating system, r~lative to nther restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave Cornell's a 6% and Hersh ,rated it a 7. Cornell's Restaurant l733Van VrankenAvenae Schenectady, N.Y . 34&-6022 Price, withtax, before tip: $33.32 An Alumni Experience By KIRKBLEEMER I ran out of my last class that Friday, anticipating an exciting weekend. I entered my house and began looking for someone to make plans with for that evening. The house was empty and I couldnot understand why. I walked around the halls until I finally heard some voiees that I did not recognize. It. seemed as if these people were listing off names and then giving short biographies on each. I looked into the room and saw two men I did not know. They looked at me and introduced themselves, and then they said the fatal words \class of '83.\ I became pale and ahnost fainted. My worst nightmare had come true. I was in a room with two alwnni reading off a composite and holding suitcases which seemed to have enough clothes for six months. I was doomed. I felt trapped. I had no other choice, but to sit down with them and talk. ,I was told by other people in the house to never attempt this because it would be a condacive situation for the inevitable alUmni stories-wliich in fact are moe creative than the Star Wars trilogy. The conversation lasted about a half hom in which I had time to calculate a formula .that could bring these stories into some realm of reality. I call it the Alcohol Five. Application of the A.F. iS used towards refergnces of alcohol conu sumption levels. For ex:ample, one alumni told me, \We bad five kegs in one hour.\ This is coqverted to 1·5 of five kegs «md five times one hours, which is actually one keg in .five ;hours. I also came up with other thoughts on .conquering the Alumni Experien.ce. 1-always laugh, laughter is a good sign, that way you avoid other anecdotes to the same story to make it more ''radical.\ 2- Never ask them who they graduated with. By doing this you will avoid hearirig allout a dozen or so people and their psychotic lives. 3~-Never believe an alumni about anything. If you do, you will obtain a reputation as a \believer\ by other alumni' and will be exploited against, when stories or other points of tlleir interest arise. 4-In all cases, try to avoid alumni. A good way to domg this is to place them in a room containing a keg and several large co11cbes. I was once told by a friend that a ten year jail sentence is a lighter sentence than a weekend with a gregarious alumni. Blow Bubbles in the rain and strain to maintain byNFCatPSK

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 FEATURES - . - ~ - . ' . Leg a By TJNASCI.,CCHETTl Another exception to the general principle stems from a Most of us have tbe comfort of preeedent .. setting case in New never having t€l worry about York State in which a father paying for our tuiti&n ourselves~ refused to support his college- Three times a year our parents student son past the age of 21. In send a check to the cashier's the case of HLotd\ v. \Lord\, 96 office and evel.\'ytbing runs Misc. 2d 434 (1978), the Court smoothly. But,. did you ever directed the father to contribute wonder what W\<luld happen if lk of the expense of supporting your parents refused to Belld his 21-year-old son until his son that check for y() u? What if your finished college. In this case, father got sick of shelling out the Court ruled that certain thou.sands for your education circumstances precluded the and decided to u~ your Fall father's claim that he was not term tuition money as a down- obliged to support his son payment on a new Mercedes? through college. The Court . Or what if your mother decid~d thought that based on that she had pl\OVLded for you surrounding drcumstances, the long enough and that it was time child was justified in his belief to take that l<>ng: awaited trip to that he sould attend college and Hawaii using your tuition that his father shoUld help ffi()ney? You would probably support him through college. laugh first; thinking that your Some of the circumstances parents were ki;(Jdlng, but upon were: the child had sufficient realizing that they were oh so abUity to attend college~ he had serious. yoa 1 d say SQmething attended a private college like; \You call't not pay my preparatory bigh school, the tuition,· it~s .yow- duty as my child was raised among other parent In But is that true? Are children and socialized: in a your parents leg,ally obligated wn,ar~ . it would be tQ pay for yow college tuition? unllSl:tal :to go to Most of the litigation that has . .(:QJllegfl. . ba.4., been taJtenplaee intllisr~rea illvolves · .. · en- .. div.orced pal!l'-Rts. Oftttnf a iE!i!!~ divorced perent .v.ifll .. refuse. t~ · pay for a ·cbilli~a t1Ution ~~... . . pensere~~ia1lriUbe.,chU~ba~ .. · l'Q. '·the ~Sl~·\ P~· ~jQ;titY;; . ·. i.e. 21.- · e·courtthaveheld·illat absent ~xc~J)tjonal . ciir· cwnstances~. the ;oQUgationio£ a · par.ent .to $U~t'kf.( chn.d··t~r~. minate$.whentll~chll. · ~:a·· .. · ~~ftf:~;ltt:,~~ . . . .. . I ·~:·t >1 tD ...• :$($bltiJ:di neidtli;~r~;·ete:; ~ivat~ :sililat· ····.\\ .. , .... ~ l1J:\~i<gen..e\i~~~· ilP.eaYtl\~ilt.~ CJ . or t~()ll$g~· tdW>tt· p~t mcltJd{ld. . In fact, in· ~be .· ajJ)sence: . ;()f ~ · <!Qntraetual· ol:l!agationt tbet¢ iS ordinarily· flo J)atental duty t~ support an adull chlild attending · ttiatm~· college. There are ex.ceptions to this general principl~. One is the e()ntractual obligation men· tioned above. A contractual obligation will keep your parent paying your tudtio.n even if . h& sbe no longer wi:sh~s to. For example, if yomr father signed a separation agr eetnent obligating hin)self to pay for half of your college education, then the Court w:iH hold him to that contract u.al obligation. · Divorcing par~nts almost . always addrEss this issue ill their separati()n agreements and it is often an area of stNng disagreement. Most parents have reservations a bout committing themselves to p.l roviding tho~tSaads of dollars for. an adult child's future education. gnta·coU'ege;J.U.the fUture, oar1rmt~. wu.ut~ pay .. coueu;e education and then refuse. <..ilildr.en the educatian by nGt prGviding financial'support. Since Lord; it seems that if tbis is the cir~ · cumstance, the courts will require your parent to con .. tribute to your support through college, tuition ex.penses in· eluded. Few of us would have the impudence to sue our parents in court Eor college tuition money after they supported us all of our lives. Then again, few (Jf us will ever have to. If you Cl:lll gain anything from this legal . brief, maybe it will be an ap-- preeiation of the gift of a college education that your parents give you when they aren't even obliged to give it. . CLASS OF '89 S emi-1' anna[ RAMADA INN FREE TICKETS AVAILABLE IN COLLEGE CENTER '\' ~.STUMI.ft ~~fA~ 0® Join in the fun! 374-7442 •Dance weal! •Magic! •Make· Up! •Clown Supplies! •And MOREl .~~ .-\( ~ ~ 1 ® 1030 Barrett St. (off Union) Schenectady ~ Northway Mall W!TW THLS C.Ou'PON Out to Eat with Hersh and Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Cornell's Restaurant- The small sign in the vestibule called it the \new\ · Cornell's, and indeed, the restaurant seemed a lighter and more cheerful place than. I remembered from freshman year. The decor was simple and tasteful, with a fresh appeal. Even the semi-partitioned bar room, complete with television, did not detract from it. What has not changed is Cornell's being a moderately priced Italian restaurant. The evening started with some of the best bread we have encountered; it was soft and moist on the inside, with a wonderfully crunch cr1:1st. Our water glasses were filled and we looked over Cornell's menu. The appetizers included clams, shrimp, oysters, and three kinds of mushroom \caps.\ The entrees, divided into chicken, . pasta and veal, were the standard, but by no means, limited choices. Also offered were steaks and an after-10 p.m. menu with sandwiches and omelettes. Sharing an order of shrimp scampi was a mixed blessing. The shrimp were large and succulent, and the sauce was perfectly flavored. Unfor- tunately, the order, at $5.95, only included three shrimp, and we could have eaten many more. We asked for more bread to dip in the delicious buttery sauce. Our salads were large and hearty, including lettuce, Big Brothers and Sisters of .\lhan~ Count~. Inc. &49 STATE STREET • ALBANY, NEW YORK 122Q3 463·4429 ' :riis -TYPING- PLACE-: I I 1 •Professional •Experienced •Timely 1 1 The Place To Take All Your Typing Naeds 1 : STAl!E OF IHE ART EQUIPMENT : I 399·0980 I ' 10% DISCOUNT WITH THIS ADII ·---------------' Concerned For The Hungry? Volunteers needed for an hour or two. Help sort food to be distributed to the food pantries of Schenectady. Meet Karen Sapio and Sr. Joan at noon on Saturday. March 5th at the College Center to drive to Bellevue Reformed Chruch. tornato, carrots, omons and mushrooms. Everything was re2:1sonably fresh and tasty, but the·overly greasy croutons were not pleasing. My Italian dressing was a bit sweet and oily, but perfectly acceptable; Eersh's bleu cheese was about average, he felt. I chose the chicken cordon bleu and Hersh had the veal parmigiani; both were $9.95. After a bit of a wait, they arrived, very hot and very large. Hersh's impression of the veal (which I agreed with) was that it was good, but just not great. The sauce and cheese wel\e fine, and it was certainly a generous portion, but somehow the veal was just not top notch. I felt my chicken also lacked that elusive quality that elevates food from good to very good Smothered in a strong Hollandaise sauce and stuffed with ham and cheese, the chicken was big and satisfying, but not memorable. My ziti and Hersh's spaghetti were reasonably tasty side orders; both were large enough to be meals on their own. Our waitress, who through the evening was attentive and capable, if a bit uninterested, brought us two delightful homemade, chocolate chip cookies to accompany our coffee and tea. We left Cornell's contented and very full. Based on our 1·10 point rating system, r~lative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave Cornell's a 6lfz and Hersh rated it a 7. Cornell's Restaurant 1733 VanVranken Avenue Schenectady, N.Y. 346-6022 Price, with tax, before tip: $33.32 An Alumni Experience By KIRK BLEEMER I ran out of my last class that Friday, anticipating an exciting weekend. I entered my house and began looking for someone to make plans with for that evening. The house was empty and I could net understand why. I walked aroW1d the halls until I finally heard some voices that I did not recognize. It seemed as if these people were listing off names and then giving short biographies on each. I looked into the room and saw two men I did not know. They looked at me and introduced themselves, and then they said the fatal words \class of '83.\ I became pale a!ld almost fainted. My worst nightmare had come true. I was in a room with two alumni reading off a composite and holding suitcases which seemed to have enough clothes for six In()nths. I was doomed. I felt trapped. I had no other choice, but to sit down with them and talk. I was told by CJtber people in the house to 11ever attempt this because it vrou.ld be a conducive situation for the inevitable alumni stories-which in fact are moe creative than the Star Wars trilogy. The conversation lasted about a balf hour in which I had time to calculate a formula that could bring these stories into some realm of reality. I call it the Alcohol Five. Application of the A.F. is used towards refertmces of alcohol con- sumption levels. For example, one alumni told me, \We had five kegs in one hour.\ This is c<mverted to 1-5 of five kegs and five times one hours, which is actually one keg in five hours. I also came up with other thoughts on conquering the Alumni Ex.perience. 1-always laugh, laughter is a good sign, that way you avoid other anecdotes to the same story to make it more \radical.\ 2- Never ask them who they graduated with. By doing this you will avoid hearing about a dozen or so people and their psychotic lives. 3--Never believe an alumni about anything. If y()u do, you will obtain a reputation as a \believer\ by other alumni and will be exploited against, when stories or other points of their interest arise. 4-In all cases, try to avoid alumni. A good way to doing this is to place them in a room containing a keg and several large couches. I was once told by a friend that a ten year jail sentence is a lighter sentence than a weekend with a gregarious alumni. Blow Bubbles in the rain and strain to maintain byNFC atPSK .. '

CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 Page 7 Union Colleg·e Philosopher . and Albany-based Composer Collaborate. in Area Hi~gh School Arts Prog·ram This era is marked by the closing of tne Arrlerican mind,. suggest several Americall scholars and classroom ob- servers. Yet, there is significant evidence to the contrary. Evidence that is manifested in some very real and tangible ways as students in an area school district .set both their minds and their hearts on creative projects. None ofthis happens without a little bit of help from friencts:, and. a great deal of guidance from teachers represent an unusual pairing of disciplines and backgrounds that school children don't encounter nearly enough. Union College Assistant Professor of Philosophy Felmon Davis and · Albany~ b<~sed musician and composer Julie Dabat are an artist-and- scholar-in-residence team · at Tamarac High School, outside Troy, N.Y. One of their main tasks is to raise questions that pique t:he curiosity of students whlle challenging them to thiJlk about ·such issues as: should music be controlled by anyone'? Can music be stolen?' Why bring a philosopher and a musician together? And wh:y ask questions when you cotild just play music? The New York Foundation for the Arts believes that everyone benefit£ ·when a critical and thoughtflll approach is .part of a cDm- prehensive arts educatioJl progrant.. To .encourage more meaningful exchanges between artists; teachers and students, the· Foundatioll funds a nwnber of special residencies, like the one in the Brittonkill School District, where Davis and Kabat have been working since December 198'7. Tp.is 3~znoQnth residency program has. meant quite a change of .p~ce for Felmon Davis, a philos.opher who earned his Ph.D. from Prin- ceton University and has been on the faculty of Union College since 1980. In describing one of the Tamarac class discusions about imagine~tion. Davis says, \We asked thoelli about whether imagination l'laspower or force. Much to our surprise, almost uniformly the students described imagination as a good means of es()ape .. or a private r.oadintQ 'One's self.\ When :the t.7artcms responses to a set .of qaestions about imagination were distributed to everyone, the s1lldents seemed sarprised. ·What they suddenly realized was. that, qS Davis puts it, ''Their personal views were actually ·reflected in the classrool)l. That confirmation of their o:wn views seemed helpful to them.\ And became a key factor in Iturturing a sense of community-and collaboration among these students -who profess not to know enough about the views and feelings of their fellow .cLassmates. Phase one of the residency was basically a dialogue among students, clas.sroom teachers and music teachers in two different classes. Incladed was an informal performance by Julie Kabat, which included excerpts from some of her newer works. Kabat's unusual use of texts in her original music, the vocal utterance, and the •percusive and string in- struments she incorporates, make for a musical en- vironment that immediately draws questions from students who often find it bizarre, in- triguing and exotic. From conversations about such syllabus topics as \Voice and Meaning\ and \Com- position and Choice,\ the students went on to consider such . notions as \Life Ideals.\ That could be as simple and yet difficult a question ·to answer as: what sorts of things can make your life meaningful? Or, does God listen to ourrnusic\? After the long talks about difficult questions, the students moved onto the next phase of the project: putting their ideas into concrete form thrDugh the creation of poetry and miiSic. They need freedom to do that, and sufficient time to make mistakes and start again. · · Davis and Kabat le{t Tamarac High SchoDl' for the month of Febuary, leaving the students and several teachers alone to create. They divided up into groups and set to work, hopefully incorporating some of the depth'of thought and feeling that was generated in the previous discusions into tlleir creative expressions. When the artist ~nd scholar return to Tamarac in March, the final phase of the project will take place. There will be editing of the poems and fine FEATURE·S taning of the musical com- positons which will be used as accompaniments for the poetry. Several rehearsals later they will perform a final concert for their fellow classmates at Tamarac High School. Julie Kabat will prDbably share some of the Tamarac studf.mts' creative work with other individuals she · en- counters as she continues her arts-in-education programs for the Foundation and numerous other·organizations. AS Professor Davis continues teaching in the college classroom, he will press more students to think carefnlly, voice their opinions, and listen to others. And another generation of Tamarac High School students will know that bold thoughts and creative energy keep the AJnerican nrlnd open and growing. A Day at St. John's ·:·TYPING BY· CHE:RYL .75¢ per page . ' >!.,< By TRACEY PRYLUCK It began as a normal, dull Thursday morning. I had a .few errands to run, and actualLy completed not only my laund~y, bttt also .some of my homew()rk. By 12: 00, I was ready to go ba~k to bed, with an energy level of negative ten, when I remem· bered that sleep was not in tlte ca-rds for me that afternoon. I was supposed to start my first day as an aide to the first gra<ie class at St. John's Catholic School. I headed for the school shortly before one with Lisa Fischer, who has been a kindergarten aide for the past several months. She went to her class and I went to nii.ne. I rein- troduced myself to Mrs. Karen Holcombe, the . first gra<le teacher, and then learned that I would be helping with the af- ternoon art project- God's eyes. I received a ten second vefresher co:urse in making God's eyes, since r don't recall having done tbem:since I was in the Brownies · in elementary school. I then proceeded to cut the . yarn and· demonstrate to each of the first graaers, in turn, how t() create the God's eyes, repeating tlle directions, \under then ()Ver,\ as I went along. Mrs. Holcombe and I only · worked witlt llalf of the class at a time, since the other hal£ was receiving a religious lesson. Forty-five m3nutes later, the project was coCJmpleted and the class had torm out a page from their math lJCJ()kS for the day's lesson. While they learned hOw to read tberrn()meters · and scales, I colliated and stapled th.e work they had completed for the day. · I left at 2:00, feeling much more alert t~all when I had DUTCHMAN'S o·I:NNER EVERY FRIDAY EVENING Reservations accepted ti:ll 5:00 pm on Thursday. M,eal cards must be punched beforehand to.in~ure you~ reservation. WE .HAVE TWO .SEATINGS FOR YOUF:l CONVENIENCE.;._ 5i30: AND 7:00 PM . SQ STOP B'Y THE DUTCH HOLLOW ...... EAR-lY IN THE WEEK . Upcoming Menu will Feature \· · · . - ~· ·,Many of Your Favorites arrived. I was no longer sleepy, but rather wide awake, cheery, ·and ready to delve into pages and pages of political science reading. My hour at St. John's had brightened my entire day, and I can't wait to .go back this Tbarsday, that's today; to work with the kid's again. Call.: 399-7 614 between 7:30-a.m.-9:o·o p.m. Applications_ tor Career Assistants By V,IRGINIE MELlO , The Career Development Center has announced that they are now taking applications for Career Assistants. This positidn includes a variety of respon- sibilities. A Career Assistant is a resptesentative of CDC, organizing and advertising workshops, meeting in- dividually with undergraduates to work on resume and sununer job searches, meeting with company representatives, helping in the Career Festival in the fall, dealing with R.A.s and fraternities as a liaison to Residence Life Office, distributing the summer job survey, and opening up CDC two times a week. There are few scheduled work terviews on campus hours; the job is very flexible beforehand. For yourself you time-wise. for yourself, Alex learn to write resumes, cover Korotkin, presently a Career letters, speak in public, and Assitant, says the job is- deal with individuals. Presently \meaningful in the sense that there ,are · four Career you see the results of what you Assistants and one minority are doing and you see the im- network coordinator; at least pact. It is gratifying to Jrnow two positions are available. The that people learn from you and job pays minimum wage. The use the knowledge later in in- applications involve small terviewing and job searcWng.\ essays and group andindividual As Terril Bonderoff, also a interviews. They are available Career assistant, points out, one now and are due on April6. For gets fringe benefits from the anyone interested there will be very nature-of the joi>. You are an information session at the better prepared to go out into beginning of Spring tenn, or if the world looking for a job; you want more information sometimes you even get an edge now, call Peter Trol.i.o at 37G- for interviews because you 6176. If you are going on ~erm meet company representatives abroad next ~a~l or .wmter that are going to conduct in- . _c,Qntact Mr Trollo unmediately. . . . ~ ' . . . Union LeadS a Hand • By0AVEGULL1VER ~ ·generally has f~'if\weaker and Food Servfce aha the Dutch Editor-in-Chief has stayed' at ha!Jle. Bryan ·has Hollow staff, the Achilles Rink . recently been~ llilde.-going staff · ai).d .Coach Charlie ·Bryan . . CrpiJI1se, tqe . :c~em~t(lerapy .,.,· treatm'enfs Morrison. · ·schen~ctady·, .. boy with>a rare while he is in between trips to \ ' ., form of cancer, and his family, P~ttsburgh for tests. . . About half the thoney ·raised are. grateful. to . the· .Uniqn . \ Computer center · staffets came .fl:om c~ange don~ ted in cuminuhliY. ' The · · varioqs Michele Wies and Jim Meyer: · the cans· arol.ll1{f~art}p~. Some donation· cans·· and the. 50-50- . _organized the efforts at l:1r1ion. of the raffle winners· also gave ,raffles :at hockey.games :rais(td \The. people have ·been. re'aliy · OO,ck their winpirigs, .Meyer . $1~1,72f~r.hi~~~dicale~~nse~. good;\ Meyer said. He.Qnd'Weis said. Anyone can still con- . . a.nah rpad~ it to one .of tbe would like to thank i.tJ particular: t'db.ute · thro~h . · N<))theut . 'home·' no·cl(ey· ·games~ ~(lt tM BoQkst9re, the Mailroom;' . Saviqgs_ ofS~hen~ctady.~; . . :· . . ~ ' •. ... ) . ·. : . :. . 2 ~~~.i.M~w·~~

CONCORDIENSIS. March 3, 1988 Page 7 Union College Philosopher and Albany-based Composer Collaborate in Area High School Arts Program This era is marked by the closing of the American mind, suggest several American schelars and classroom ob- servers. Yet, there is significaRt evidence to the contrary. Evidence that is manifested in some very real and tangible ways as students in an area school district set both their minds and their hearts on creative projects. None of this happens without a little bit of help from frieHds, and a great deal of guidance from teachers represent an unusual patring of disciplines and backgrmmds that scho@l children don't encounter nearly enough. Union College Assistant Professor of Philosophy Felmon Davis and Albany- based musician and composer Julie Dabat are an artist-and- scholar-in-residence team at Tamarac High School, outside Troy, N.Y. One of their main tasks is to raise questions that pique the curiosity of students while challenging them to think about such issues as: should music be controlled by anyone? Can music be stolen? Why bring a philosopher and a musician together? And why ask questions when you could just play music? The New York Foundation for the Arts believes that everyone benefits when a critical and thoughtful approach is part of a com- prehensive arts education program. To encourage more meaningful exchanges between artists, teachers and students, the Foundation funds a number of special residencies, like the one in the BrittonkHl School District, where Davis and Kabat ha:ve been working since December 1987. This J:-:rn.onth residency program has meant quite a change M pace for Felmon Davis, a philosopher who earned his Ph.D. from Prin- ceton University and has been on the faculty of Union College since 198(). ln describing one of the Tamarac class discusions about imagination, Davis says, \We asked them about whether imagination has power or force. Much to our surprise, almost uniformly the students described imagination as a good means of escape or a private road into one's self.\ When t:he various responses to a set of questions about imagination were distributed to everyone. the students seemed surprised. What they suddenly realized was that, as Davis puts it, ''Their personal views were actually reflected in the classroom. That confirmation of their own views seemed helpful to them.\ And became a key factor in nurturing a sense of comm11nity and collaboration among these students who profess not to know enough a bout the views and feelings of their fellow classmates. Phase one of the residency was basically a dialogue among students, classroom teachers and music tEachers in two different classEs. Included was an informal i)erformance by Julie Kabat, which included excerpts from some of her newer works. Kabat's unusual use of texts in her original music, the vocal utterance, and the percusive and string in- struments slle incorporates, make for Cl musical en- vironment that immediately draws questions from students who often fi11d it bizarre, in- triguing and e:;mtic. From COI1'11ersations about such syllabus t()pics as \Voice and Meaning\ and \Com- position and.. Choice,'' the students went on to consider such notions as \Life Ideals.\ That could be .as simple and yet difficult a qu-estion to answer as: what sons of things can make your life InE<mingful? Or, does God listen to our music? After the long tallt>:s ab01:1t difficult questions, the students moved onto the next phase of the project: putting th-eir ideas into concrete form through the creation of poetry and music. They need freedom to do that, and sufficient time to make mistakes and start agann. Davis and Kabe~t left Tamarac High School for the month of Febuary, leaving the students and several teachers alone to create. ThEy diivided up into groups and set to work, hopefully incorporating some of the depth of thought anod feeling that was gener-ated in the previous discusions into their cr-eative expressions. When the artist and! scholar return to Tamarac im March, the final phase of the project will take place. There will be editing of the poems .and fine FEATURES tuning of the musical com- positmls which wiU be used as accompaniments for the poetry. Several rehearsals later they will perform a final concert for their fellow classmates at Tamarac High School. Julie Kabat will probably share some of the Tamarac students' creative work with other individuals she en- counters as she continues her arts-in-education programs for the Foundation and numerous other organizations. As Professor Davis continues teaching iR the college classroom, he will press more students to think carefully, voice their opinions, and listen to others. And another generati()n of Tamarac High School students will know that bold thoughts and creative energy keep the American mind open and growing. A Day at St. John's TYPING BY CHERYL . 75¢ per page By TRACEY PRYLUCK It began as a normal, dull Thursday morning. I had a few errands to run, and actually completed not only my laundry, but also some of my homework. By 12:00, I was ready to go back to bed, with an energy level of negative ten, when I remem- bered that sleep was not in the cards for me that afternoon. I was supposed to start my first day as .an aide to the first grade class at St. John's Catholic School. I headed for the school shortly before one with Lisa Fischer, who has been a kindergarten aide for the past several months. She went to her class and I went to mine. I rein- troduced myself to Mrs. Karen Holcombe, the first grade teacher, and then learned that I would be helping with the af- ternoon art project- God's eyes. I received a ten second refresher course in making God's eye~, since I don't recall having done them since I was in the Brownies in elementary school. I then proceeded to cut the yarn and demonstrate to each of the first graaers, in turn, how to create the God's eyes, repeating the directions, \under then over,\ as I went along. Mrs. Holcombe and I only worked with half of the class at a time, since the other half was receiving a religious lesson. Forty-five minutes later, the project we~s completed and the class had torn out a page from their mat:h books for the day's lesson. While they learned how to read thermometers and scales, I collated and stapled the work they had completed fortheday. I left at 2: 00, feeling much more alert than when I had DUTCHMAN'S DINNER EVERY FRIDAY EVENING Reservations accepted till 5:00 pm on Thursday. Meal cards must be punched beforehand to insure your reservation. WE HAVE TWO SEATINGS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE- 5:30 AND 7:00 PM SO STOP BY THE DUTCH HOLLOW EARLY IN THE WEEK Upcoming Menu will F€ature Many of Your Favorites arrived. I was no longer sleepy, but rather wide awake, cheery, and ready to delve into pages and pages of political science reading. My h.our at St. John's had brightened my entire day, and I can't wait to go back this Thursday, that's today, to work with the kid's again. Call: 399-7614 between 7:30-a.m.-9:00 p.m. Applications for Career Assistants By VIRGINIE MELlO The Career Development Center has announced that they are now taking applications for Career Assistants. This positioo includes a variety of respon- sibilities. A Career Assistant is a respresentative of CDC, organizing alld advertising workshops, meeting in- dividually witf1 undergraduates to work on res:ume and sununer job searches, meeting with company representatives, helping in the Career Festival in the fall. dealing with R.A.s and fraternities as a liaison to Reside11ce Life Office, distributing the summer job survey, and ()pening up CDC two times a week. There are few sd1edmled work hours; the job is very flexible time-wise. for your!ielf, Alex Korotkin, presently ill Career Assitant, says the job is \meaningful in the sense that you see the results of what you are doing and you see the im- pact. It is gratifying to know that people learn from you and use the knowledge later in in- terviewing and job se11rching.\ As Terril Bonderoff, also a Career assistant, points out, one gets fringe benefits from the very nature of the job. You are better prepared to go out into the world looking fom- a job: sometimes you even ge-t an edge for interviews because you meet company r-epresentatives that are going t() conduct in- terviews on campus beforehand. For yourself you learn to write resumes, cover letters, speak in public, and deal with individuals. Presently there are four Career Assistants and one minority network coordinator~ at le-ast two positioRs are available. The job pays minimum wage. The applications involve small essays and group and individual interviews. They are available now and are due on April ~- For anyone interested there will be an information session at the beginning of Spring tenn. or if vou want more information now, call Peter Trolio at 370- 6176. If you are going on term abroad next fall or winter contact Mr Trolio inunediately. Union Leads a Hand By DAVE GULLIVER Editor-in-Chief Bryan Crounse, the Schenectady boy with a rare form of cancer, and his family, are grateful to . the Union community. The various donation· calls and the 50-50. raffles at hook:.ey games raise,d $1,172 for his medical expenses. Bryan made it to one of the home hock~y games, b~t generally has felt weaker and has stayed at home. Bryan has recently been undergoing chemotherapy treatments while he is in between trips to Pittsburgh for tests. Computer center staffers Michele Wies and Jim Meyer organized the effmis at Union. \The people have been really good,'' Meyer said. He and Weis would like to thank in particular th~ Bookstore, the Mailroom, Food Service and the Dutch Hollow staff. the Achilles Rink staff and .Coach Charlie Morrison. About half ~he money raised came from cl1ange donated in the cans aroUild·campus. Some of the raffle winners also gave back their winnings, Meyer said. Anyone can still con- tribute through Northeast Savings of Schenectady.

Page 8 CONCORDlENSIS, March 3, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES- Politics- In Vietnam . . ByUNHDIEP Vietnam, is a Southeast Asian coilnh;y bordered by Laos and Cambodia on the west and by China on the north. On the east of Vietnam lies the Narn Hai- Sea. The area of Vietnam is about 129,607 s·q. miles and its population is about 60 tni:lli()n. Its capital now isHanoi. Before 1975, Vietnam was divided into North and South Vietnam. South Vietnam was a republic while North Vietnam was coiilffiunist. The political system in South Vietnam was similar to the United States~ system. The Vietnamese had a president, senators and a House of Representatives. The eah· didates running for president were nominated by the senators from the different parties. The president was elected for a 4 year-term. After that he could run again, there being no limit to the ntunber of presidential t~rms. In Vietnam, the citizens are eligible t() vote if they are over 18 years old. After the C~rnml:inists took over South Vietnam in 1975, North and South Vietnam, therefore, w.ere united and became one col.Ultry. Un~ fortunately, tile political system changed totally. Its political system became siiililar to the Russian's. T()day, it is a connnunist system which does not provide freedom to the people and it is no longer a system whicb shows concern for the people of the conntry. The communist system assigns to certain things only a name, not that it has any effect on the political system. For example, it is said that people have the right . to vote for an election. Yet, how cart people vote if there is only one candidate that the communist party presents THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD Dy JASON MESHNICK Panama · President Eric Arturo Delvall~ fled his home after Panamanian leader General Noriega decided to hav~ him removed. He is supposedly hiding in or near the capital. Mos<;ow -Mikhail S. Gorbachev promised Nationalist Armenian leaders that he would personally study their grievan~s. In exchange . the Armenians will quell their demonstrations for tlte next month. Syria - Secretary of State George Shultz is in Jordan and.$yriato teli •of U.S. prop()sals for Middle East negotiations. He me~·-'With both foreign minister Fa:rouk al-Sha:raa and President Hafez al-Assad .. Calgary - Negotiations are underway for Russim hockey player Vyacheslav Fetisov to play for the New Jers.ey Devils as an \Ambassador.\ Fetisov has stated that if allowed, he would go readily. INTERNATIONAL FILM FESTIVAL Luis Bunur:;;ll, THAT OBSCURE OBJECT OF DESIRE (1977) By AIMESIMON Question: Do you feel that the U.S. sho\lld apply eClollontic ilnd-or ~ilitaty .pressllre on 'General Noriega c,f Pamama in an effort to force hiln ·to .step down? to tlte citizen? The communist system works only for its ewn benefit, and net for the benefit · of tile people. It does not con- sider the welfare or provide for the needs of the citizens. Although the Communists may declare that they do, yet they usually take no action on the matter. There is such a saying Missy lJladik {'Sit} I feel that that describes that polidal the United States shollld not system in. Vietnam now. It is penalize Panama by econcinic said ''People are ·the or :military sanctions 1111less the proprietors, the government is people of the country dir~Gt;ly the manager, and the Com- approach the U ,S. for aid. A mun.ist party is the controller.\ - whole coun~ry should 11ot be This conveys the meal'ling that . punished for the crimes of one the Communist party is always · · man. The United States at this the last one to make a decision point should wait ~or the. and perhaps it is the one prompting of the people before organization that aquires all the taking any action. benefits at the end. On the other Matt Malatesta ( '91) I think hand, people in the governeiilnt that the United States sbould just have titles, but possess no implement a trade embE!,rgo power, also perhaps, they are .against Panama lllltil Noriega, the scapegoats of the. Com~ steps down and Dev~lle is munist pa-rty. alloy.red to regain his rightful position as president. It is our GOING TERM ABR·OAD THIS SPRING? . And interested ill being an orientation advisor in the fall? Applications Are Now Av~ilable In The Dean Of · Students' O.ffice And Are Due Monday~ March 7. job as Americans to protect democracy through.()Ut the world. We can't stand t<l see a democracy foiled by the at- tempts of a drug smuggler, a crooked ruler. . · Elissa Rosenweigh ('91) I think that the ·u.s~ ·should become involved in the situation in Panama due to the serwu~ness . of the drug smuggling .problem. We should apply economic pressure on Noriega's govermnerit, and· if ·this does not force his resignation, the Unite.d States · sbould consider a military option. . Christopher Mel'k (Swit- · · zerland, '91) I don't think that economic sanctions would bring th~ desir.ed results. The country has no money, and it would be forced to search . E~r funding from the Eastern Block nations~ In- this way the United States would not only lose Panama as . a friend but also create a space for Moscow on the American continent. To use-rriilitary force against Panama would have the same result, in addition to lowering world opinion, and .most importantly ca.usethe loss g£ the Panama Canal, a great catastrephe for tbe Westem economy. On the other hand, we . can't juE~t sit and watch Noriega export drugs to the states. A possil;)le solution would be for the CIA to start a long term prQgram through which the Panamianian .population would by itself get rid of Noriega; i.e. by assassination or revolUtion . Bunuel's darkly humoureus satire <illustrates the unfathomable nature of sexual obsession. Fenando Rey stars as a fiftyish gentleman who fa:lls desperately in love with a SAitTo OR FRoM EUROPE, FLYTHE OTHER WAY- jUST $999. woman half his age. The object of his affections is portrayed by two different actresses. who alternately . display the excesses of his desires. Tuesday; March 8 campus Center GREAT DECISIONS 1988 The U.S. and the Middle East: Dangerous Rift Past and Q.urent History Tuesday, March8 7:30pm Milano lounge: Hale House Transatlantic travel qn Tomorrow's ·super~ liner Today® is an experience of incompar- able richness. And now our standby fare makes sailing to Europe in five glorious days and nights truly irresistible. This standby fare of $999 provides a berth in a minimurn~grade room for two, and a one-way, economy~class ticket between London and New York, Boston, Chicago, Detroit~ Miami, Philadelphia or Washington, D.C.; taxes extra. Or book QE2 alone-just ~799 on standby, taxes extra. This limited offer is subject to with- drawal without notice and may not be combined with any other offer. Confirma- tion will be given three weeks prior to sail- ing; a $100 deposit is required with your request. For details, see your travel agent or subrtlit the application at right. 'Ht't'kln~\' l.\dn('d}t;>d within 2ld-c:1Y\' df ~diJmg wall f\)rjl 1 1tiht.• $100 Pt.•ptlMl l.t·n~th·nf -..;ten n•,lr:!l\hun ... i2pply QF2'rt'l-;l~tt•tl'd In Grt•t1:l Bntiiln CHOOSE FROM26 SAILINGS < TO EUROPE: Apr. 29; May22; June12, 25; JulylO, 27~ Aug. 11; 21; Sept. 6, 21; Oet, 1,31; Nov. 21. F~OM EURO~E: May :l;June_ 5, 2.0; Julyl, 2.;1.; Aug. 1, 16, 29, Sept. 11, 26, Oct. 15, Nov. 6, Dec. 14. , r - -APPLicATioN FoRQE2 sTANDBY -, Cunard; Box 2935;.Crancl Central Station; · I New York, NY 10163. · · Mail this application and a deposit o.f$100. I 2nd-chmce Sdlilng da!L• lilY 'oll\ll I I I I \''' NO I I Ill' I . ~ I L t:.l\tl::i~=-- - .. - __:t~::·p.~nm·.JJ.C0288_ j QUEEN EuzABE1li 2 Tomorrow's Superliner Today\ ·c 198B CUNARD QUEEN ELIZABETH 2 ~ SAGAFJORD •VISTAFJORb • SEA GoooEss I• St::A GonoEss II

CONCOJU)lENSlS, March 3, 1988 Page 9 ·Union College Resident Advisor ,Selection'88-'89 ... ..-· .\Although 1 had many questions when I .f1rst thought. of applying for the position 0N ould I make it through the process? Would I enjoy being ~n RA? Would I bave time for all my otheractivities and studies?) I've answered yes to all !()fthem and have never once regretted becoming an RA\ · \The RAs have formed a support network that I really feel I can count on. Being an RA is a lot more work than I thought it would be, but it's alsQ a lot more fun.\ ' Jeff Hirschman, RA '87-'88 . Kyle King, RA '87-'88 \Tb me, the RA position has been a fantastic growing experience. While helping people adjust to college living, I have learned a great deal about myself and lhe ways in which I deal with -college life.\ John McQueen, RA '8'7-'88 \As .an RA this year I have gained a better appreciation of the services Uaion ~as lO offer, and have established friendships wjth both floor members and other RAs.\ · Denise Feinsod, RA '87-'88 \Being an RA has been a great experience. I have gained confidence in myself and in my ability to face challenging situations.\ · Louis John Wertalik, RA '86-'88 IMPORTANT DATES 4/5/~8 Mandatory Interest Meeting 6:60 p.rn., College Center Auditorium 4/8/~8 Applications Due at 4:0() p.m.., Residence Life Offic~ 4th Floor College Center 4/11/~8 Interview Process Begins 4!30{~8. Group Process day \I can't think. of another job that grows with you and grows on you the way being an RA does. It's been a big part of my life at Union.\ Donna Lan:rendorf, RA '86-'88 \Being an RA bas great benefits ... fun trips, a comfol'table room and money for plarming activities. Still, the most rewatding benefit is really getting to know and grow close to new friends.\ PaulaNadeau, RA '87-'~8 \ \Being an RA is a lot o.f responsibility bu:t it is also a lot ()f fun. I think it h.as been a great .a learning experience as any coUI~ I could take.\ Colleen Aod~polfi, RA '87· y8~ ... ' ........ 'I, \\ • .. .. • ~ \ 'lo • • • _.,-. • • • •

\Page IU Gen. Ed and Gel-Time Rushed While Writing Proposal Stalled Union is at a crucial turning point when two aspects of il~ educalional policy arc in transition: the curriculum and the scheduling system. The General Education Soard curriculum proposal was • released last week; we spoke on it then' and have since discussed it further with members of the G.E.B. and the A.A.C., whc) also reviewed it last week. Some of our concerns were addressed, but some were not, and new issues have been raised. There is a committee working on the Writing Across the Curriculum proposal as an issue separate from that of the G.E.B. For the past four years we've heard about plans to improve writing. That committee, in one fonn or another. has been working since 1986 but as of now no changes have ~en made in the system. Two years ago the Subcouncil on Writing submitted a report to the A.A.C. with recommendations for writing which arc very similar to the current Writing Across the Curriculum program. This proposal, presented to the A.A.C. in May 1986 even designated \w-courscs\ which were mentioned in the new proposal. None have been implemented yet. As one G.E.B. member said, perhaps writing should be treated as a separate issue from G.E.B., so that if the G.E.B proposal is voted down writing can go on. But writing is being treated as a Jesser issue, which it most definitely is not, and reportedly will not be dealt with until after Gen Ed. It was recently brought to our attention that a professor on one or tht.: England terms abroad was disturbed about the poor quality of writing of the Union students; however, the students on the program were considc'red average or bt.:Lter studenL<.;. It's simple~ Union is graduating students who do not write properly or effectively. The matter should not be delayed until after Gen Ed. is settled. As the A.A.C. discussed last Wednesday, the tenn abroad option in Gen Ed. needs tighLcning. Several countries, such was England and Greece, do not requ.i·re any language, aud England is not, in our view, a foreign culture. And linally, although Professor Warde (sec letter) may he correct that any history sequence option is worthwhile, we all know that a student in one course-- let alone two courses -- in which he or she has no interest will not benefit from the course. Gel-Tim~ is also a disputed issue among many students. While the editorial hoard cannot agree on all issues listed by the StudcnL Forum (sec letter, opposite page), we agree that there arc serious flaws: dawn to dusk classes, reduced course choices because of the fewer slots, the increase of \party nights,\ and difficulties for students trying to find time to meet professors. Moreover, the supposed two-year trial period will, as one professor said, put the system in place and make il more difficult ll> remove, even if it is found to be Hawed. And those c>f us that remember a possibly better system will be in the minority. Champagne Dreams The g.lusscs arc empty and all that's left of the cake arc a few small crumbs, hut the memories will always be there. It's 4 a.m. for the last time for us. Starting next tenn Concordiensis will have two new Editors-in- Chief', but before we put the last paper to bed, the old guard would like to express our gratitude to all of those who have worked with us on the paper to make it what it is. To the editors that have dedicated their time we leav\c: to Tina, a truckload of aspirin, a \portfolio\ for when you're stuck, and ripped blue jeans and an old shirt; to Becky, a ~ncakcr, a hairstylist, another committee, and a 4K hour day; to Matjoric, a pool at her new law school; ' to Wendy. an apartment and a job; to Jan and Jim, a lifetime supply of movie passes and typing lessons for Buddy; to Gary and Aimc, an interpreter; to Lori, less long libelous letters; to Jcn, a smiley-face button; to Lisa and Kelly, a. ten year supply of \Chips\ and no personals; to Chris, a female editor who will go out with him; to Andy, a wire to the Boston Globe; to the Ads and Business departments, more chairs for your staffs and less obnoxious customers. And to all the other editors artd staffers, past and future. that part that you carry with you in your hearts. .. LET.TERS W.riting Committee Still to· Write To the Editor: I appreciate your fun- damentally affirmative editorlal comments on the General Education Board's Curriculum (February 25 )., and I commend Elise Foody for her accurate report on the proposal now before the AAC (one small correcti()n in Elise's article: two hundred students in a g·iven class at Union currently take no foreign language cow-se while they are here; but this is not to say that they gradaate with no knowledge of a foreign language). The editorial raises one point to which I shoUld give you a quick and reassuring response: writing in the curricalum. \Writing Across the CurriculUm\ is totally absent from our presentation to the AAC only because it .is so im- portant that it has a whole corrunittee ofits own workingto prepare a recommendation. Whatever that recomnuml:ation may be, the Genetal Education Board anticipates that the General Education Curriculum will readily • a~commodate it. I want to offer just a word, too, about the .history sequen- ces. Students who come to feel themselves ,, ''locked into'' a given history . sequence will never be locked into SCJmething without good value fer them. Specific though Ancient,. American, and European may each seem to be in its focus, all will nonetheless present a body of historical knowledge worthy of any st11dent's attention. We anticipate that all entering students will get either their first or second preference of a history sequence but that in any case no history sequence will be a \loser.\ Anton Warde Associate Professor, Chair, General Education Board Respect Opposing Political Views To the Edttor: In last week's Cvncordiensis we were quoted in an .in- ternational issue concerning Congress' decision to repeal aid to the Contras. Last Thursday afternoon Rebecca received an obscene phone call in which she was called a \f-· commie.\ The n.ext morning we both received a post-it note in our mailboxes stuck to the clippings stating \This is been noted and your name has been filed.-Carl Freidrich.\ Carl is the room- mate of J-ack Markis '91, als~ quoted on the issue with an opposing viewpoint. Something needs to be said for the lack of -maturity displayed here. Issues such as this are raised to bdng our community to a greater awareness of the world around U$. Well founded opinions on bothsides of an issue whether or not you agree with either one, should be respected. We are not opposed to opinions different from our own,. and. neither will we apologize for stating that which we believe to be true. If this is an iss11e that needs to be discussed further, as it appears that Mr. Friedrich believes it is, then the proper channel tnight be to arrange a moderated debate or hold an ··awareness seminar bringing in authorities to discuss both sides of the issue. - It has been stated and restated that our campus is embarrassingly Wlaware of the issues that now face our society. However, attacking opposing opinions is not the way to bring understanding of awareness of an issue to the campus com- tnunity. Such s•gns of ignorance and immaturity in deafli&g with issues concerning society do more harm than good. -If my statement sounds harsh, it should. Senator Joseph McCarthy would be very proud .of you, Mr. Friedrich. Sincerely, Rebekah Thayer '90 Patrick Peri vier French Teaching Assistant No Cable TV for Psi Upsilon To the Editor: On Saturday morning I turned on my t.v. to find out that the Administration decided they did not like the way the cable wires installed by the Schenectady Cable Company l()oked on the house. Their decision disap- pointed me for several reasons. Firstly, the legality of this action seems dubious, the school does own the physical building of Psi Upsilon and for this reason Dean Alford gave written consent to install cable into an individual's room before they entered . into a written contract with Schenectady Cable Vision incl11ding an in- stallati()n fee and a monthly cable subscription. I cannot find reasoning for the Administration's actions primarily because' they did not present us with any reason but instead chose to instruct the cable company to cut our wires immediately. If the Administration had wished, Elections for Editor-in-Chief There will be an election for lhe two Concordlensls Editor- in-Ch Lei positions on Thursday, March 10 at 7:00 p.m in the Concotdiensis.otfice on the third floor of Carnegie. 4 i ' Any student may run for the position. They are elected by a vote of the editors and staff ' of Cc:lncordlensis. Candidates must sign up in Mrs .. Marra's office by March 1 0 and are expected to give a short speech before the vote. they c;ould have written us a letter explaining their position and asked us for our input on the problem. They should have at least been able to explain to us why we cannot have cable. I feel the College is operating - on a double standard by trying to instill upon its students qualities of maturity and morality and then acting in such a conniving manner. Martin Buoniconti '90

'Page JU <llnttntrbtrnsis I ;,umled u.l f in'lf'li (.(,1/t:t;t: /'(:'( ----~- Gen. Ed and Gel-Time Rushed While Writing Proposal Stalled Union is at~ crucial tu.ming point when two aspects of it'i educational policy arc in transition: the curriculum an<l the schedulin~ system. The General Education Board curriculum proposal was · released last week; we spoke on it then and have since discussed it further with members of the G.E.B. and the A.A.C., who also reviewed it last week. Some of our concerns were addressed, but some were not, and new issues have occn raised. There is a cummittcc working on the Writing Across the Curriculum rroposal as an issue separate from that of the G.E.B. For the past four years we've heard about plans to improve wriling. That committee, in one fonn or another, has been working since 1986 hut as of now no changes have been made in the system. Two years ~go the Subcouncil on Writing submitted a report to the A.A.C. with recommendations for writing which an: very similar to the current Writing Across the Curriculum rrogram. This proposal, presented to the A.A.C. in May 19H6 even designated \w-courses\ which were mentioned in the new proposal. None have been imrlcmente<l yet. As o11c < j .E. B. mcm her said, perhaps writing should be treated as a separate i~sue from G.E.B., so that if the G.E.B proposal is voted down writing can go on. But writing is lx~ing treated as a lesser issue, which it most dellnitely i~ not, and reportedly will not be dealt with until alter Cim Ed. It was rccerllly brought to our attention that a professor on one or tilL: England terms ahroad was disturiA~d about the poor qu~tlity or writing or the Union students; however, th~ students on the program were considered average or hL:tlcr swdents. It's sirn pk; Union is graduating students who do not write properly or cflcctivcly. The matter should nol he delayed until afkr (len Ed. is scllbl. /\s the 1\./\.C'. discussed last Wednesday, the term abroad option in C lt·n Ed. needs tightening. Several countries, such was l·:ngland and Greece, do not require any language, <tlld England is not, in our view, a foreign culture. /\nd finally. allhoug.h Prokssor Warde (sec letter) may he correct that any history sequence option is worthwhile, we all know that a student in one course-- let alone two courses -- in which he or she has no interest will no I hcndit from the course. Cld-TIIIIL' i:-: also a disputed issue among many students. While tlw ~Liilorial hoard cannot agree on all issues listed by the Stude-nt Forum (sec lcllcr, opposite page). we agree that tl1cre arc serious !laws: dawn to dusk classes, reduced course choices because of the fewer slots, the increase of \party nights,\ and difficulties for students trying to lill(.l Lime to meet professors. Moreover, the supposed two-year tria] period will, as one professor said, put the system in place and make it more difficult to remove, even if it is found to be nawcd. And those of us that remember a possibly better system will he in the minority. Champagne Dreams The !_!lassc~ arc empty and all that's left of the cake an: a few small crumhs, hut the memories will always be there. It's 4 a.m. for the last time for us. Starting next term Concurdicnsis will have two new Editors-in- Chief, hut be !\ore we put the last paper to bed, the old guard would like to express our gratitude to all of those who haw wm\ked with us on the paper to make it what it IS. To the editors that h;~vc dedicated their time we leave: to Tina. a truckload of aspirin, a \portfolio\ for when you're ~tuck, and ripped hluc jeans and an old shirt; t() Becky, a snL·akcr, a hairstylist, another committee, and il 4~ hour day: to Marjorie, a pool at her new law school~ to Wendy, 4tn apartment and a job; to Jan and Jim, a. li r~timc supply of movie passes and typing lessons for Buddy; to Gary and Aimc, an interpreter; to Lori, less long lihclou s letters; to Jcn, a smiley-face button; to Lba and Kl'lly, a. ten year supply of\Chips\ and no personals~ to Chris, a female editor who will go out with him; to Andy, a wire to the Boston Globe; to the Ads and Business departments, more chairs for your staffs and less obnoxious customers. And to all the other editors and staffers, past and future, that part that you carry with you in your hearts. LETTERS Writing Committee Still to· Write To the Editor: I appreciate your fua- dameatally affirmative editorial comments en tfue General Education Board's Curriculum (February 25 J, and I commend Elise Foody fer her accurate report on the proposal now before the AAC (one small correction in Elise's article: two hundred students m. a given class at Union currently take no foreign language course while they are here; but this is not to say that they graduate witl::l no knowledge of a foreign language). The editorial raises ()fie point to which I should give you a quick and reassurmg response: writing in the curriculum. \Writing Across the Curriculwn\ is totally absent from our presentation to the AAC only because it is so im- portant tl::lat it has a whole committee of its own working to prepare a recommendation. Whatever that recommendation may be, the General Education Board aRticipates that the General Education Curricull:ll11 will readily ·accommodate it. I want to offer just a word, too, about the history sequen- ces. Students who come to feel themselves \locked into\ a given bistery sequence will never be locked into something without gGod value for them. Specific though Ancient, American, and European may each seem to be in its focus, aU will nonetheless present a body of histGrical kn()Wledge worthy of any studeRt's attention. We anticipate that all entering students wiU get either their first or secGnd preference of a history seq_uence but that in any case na history sequence will be a \'loser.\ Anton Warde AsS()ciate Professor, Chair,General Education Board Respect Opposing Political Views To the Editor: In last week's Concordiensis we were quoted in an in- ternational issue concerning Congress' decision to repeal aid to the Contras. Last Thursday afternoon Rebecca received an obscene phone call in which she was called a \f- commie.\ The next morning we both received a post-it note in our mailboxes stuck to the clippings stating \This is been noted and your name has been fUed.-Carl Freidrich.\ Carl is the room- mate of Jack Markis '91, also quoted on the issue with an opposing viewpoint. Something needs to be said for the lack of maturity displayed here. Issues such as this are raised to bring our community to a greater awareness of the world aroi:U1d us. Well founded opinions on both sides of an issue whether or not you agree with either one, should be respected. We are not opposed to opinions different from our own, and :neither will we apologize for stating that which we beHeve to be true. If this is an issue that needs to be discussed further, as it appears that Mr. Friedrich believes it is, then the proper channel might be to arrange a moderated debate or hold an awareness seminar bringing in authorities to discuss both sides of the issue. It has been stated and restated that our campus is embarrassingly unaware of the issues that now face our society. However, attacking opposing opinions is not the way to bring understanding ef awareness of an issue w the campus com- munity- Such signs of ignorance and irnrnat urity in dealL.g with issues concernillg society do more harm than good. If my statement sounds harsh, it should. Senator Joseph McCarthy would be very proud of you, Mr. Friedrich. Sincerely, Rebekah Thayer '90 Patrick Peri vier French Teaching Assistant No Cable TV for Psi Upsilo11 To the Editor: On Saturday morning I turned on my t.v. to find out that the Administration decided they did not like the way the cable wires installed by the Schenectady Cable Company looked on the house. Their decision disap- pointed me f()r several reasons. Firstly, the legality of this action seems dubious, the school does own the physical building of Psi Upsilon and for this reason Dean Alford gave written consent to install cable into an individual's room before they entered into a written contract with Schenectady Cable Vision including an in- stallation fee and a monthly cable subscription. I cannot find reasoning for the Administration's actions primarily because they did not present us with any reason but instead chose to instruct the cable company to cut our wires immediately. If the Administration had wished, Elections for Editor-in-Chief There will be an election for the two Concordlensls Editor- in-Chief positions on Thursday, March 10 at 7:00 p.m. in the Concordlensls office on the third floor of Carnegie. Any student may run f()r the position. They are elected by a vote of the editors and staff of Concordiensls. Candidates must sign up in Mrs. Marra's office by ~arch 1 0 and are expected 10 give a short speech before the vote. they could have written us a letter explaining their position and asked us for our input on the problem. They should have at least been able to explain to us why we cannot have cable. I feel the College is operating Editors-in-Chief News Editors Associate News Editors · Features Editors on a double standard by trying to instill upon its students qualities of maturity and morality and then acting in such a conniving manner. Martin Buoniconti '90 bitttsis David Gulliver. Lee Ann Schmidt Christine Hong, R. :Reed Whidden Elise Foody, Daniel Keniry Marjorie Hoffer~ Wendy Zimmerman Mark HaughtO':n. .Susan Shaffer Aim.e Simon, Gary Steinbaum Lori Leon A$sot-iate Features Editors Intemational Features Editors Commentary Page Editor Associate Commentary Page Editor Arts Editors Jason Mesbnick Jan Ooldstcin. run MacLaughlin Jennifer Kove Lisa Marzil'li, Kelley Park Chris Hinckley, Andrew Miller Dave Morrison Rebeca Smith Lisa Bro-wn, Lori Kaplan Lauten Feuerman, Kathy Green Beth Tumey Brl\d Mondscbem, Karen Simons C. William Huntley Science Editor Campus Page Editors Sports Editors Associate Sports Editor Photo Editor Advertising Editors Associate Advertising Editors :Business Managers Honorary Faculty Advisor S'T AFF: Elizabeth Berliner, Kurt Bleemer, Prahir Chakrabarty, Lisa . Cherande, Jea,nne Daley,. Alan DeSalvio., Chidsey Dicskon, Jennifer England, Carl Friedrich, Alex GardheT, Patnel~ Haber, Chris · Hartmann, Martin Heck, Andrew Hershaft, LeAta JacksC>n, Stephanie Jaryna, Mary Beth Manning, Cathy Markes. Virginie Melio, Tracey Pryluck, Bill Robbil).s, Tina Sciocchetti, Susanne Shaker, Bzra Sherman, Missy Stewart, Craig Summers. Ellen Tapley, Mark Van .Buren, Mark Zimmerman. ADVERTISING STAFF: Michelle Alfano, Robin :Baskin, Missy Beal, Jill Deutsch, Helene DeVries, Dina Golas, Lina Leung, Ma:rti.na Moor~. Leslie Morris, Liz Perkowski. . · PHOTOGRAPHERS: Todd Cocorikis, Amy G<~Ldstein, Susan Kersch, Stan Kl.ttinger. CONCORDlENSIS is pablished every Thursday by the student body of Uttiocn College, Schenectady, New Yolk 123(}'8; Publications Office; StiSQ.Uelhanna Publicaitot~t Inc., Box 388, SidMy, New Y otk 13838 <601) S6.~;.;&339 •.. Subsm)n14n ·rmttt·$Z4 · p4r. ·r•1··dlltvered my.wh&'e .mfthtFhltdt~d>tS:tati.¥i·:Cofttot,telists:4 · · . thtt Jni«¢.ij ·. . .. ~ .• ;~'\~!.!~~ . : :L. •. . •.

CONCORDlENSIS, March :J, 1988 Page ll You Can't Please Everyone All of the Time To the 'Editor: l'm writing in reply to the letters written by- Professors Laursen and Reynolds. Both professors ask us to substitute our; · own ethnic-radiclfl backgrounc:ls int() a degrading moV:ie (i.e. hovr women .ar,e depicted in po!TiOSJ) and see how we like it then. Well, this has been done for us: Mel Brooks an anti-semite, Ed!lie Murphy a racist, and Momty Pytbon a bunch of bigots. These are not true because the:se movies are considered enter:tainment, as are pornographie .films. Pornos a:re NOT documentaries, they ARE entertainment. If you don't feel that .pornos should be shown on campus and Sponsored by the schOol, that's .fine. But if we can't show these 'degrading' films I don't think the school should· sponsor anti- semitism, as it does. Union College Sponsors 7 co1,1rses involving Shakespeare, a knoWl1 anti-semite. So professors, a<Jcording to you, the school should ban and censor these books. Tbis is w.hy there is the first ·amendment, because. what may be offending to you may be all right for me and vice versa. You can't please everyone all the time. On last topic I: would like to bring up is one of responsibilitY.. As a ·twenty-year-old (old enough to go to war and to vote) . I feel that I am responsible enough to watch pornographic films and not have them affect my lift. If you do11't feel that the students on this campus are that responsible, go talk to Admissions and tell them, maybe we'll get a whole lot of stuffed shirts ami feminists for the class of '92. But until then, as long as the 'irresponsible' have a majority here, you're just S.O. of L. Sincerely, Edward Kulback '90 ·student Forum Deems Gel-Time Ineffective The Student Forum is en- cm~raged by the · Ac~deinic Affairs CouncH\s recent at- tempt to improwe the present Gel\ Time sebedllle: This dear colllRljttment tQ continuing . a tradition of academic ex· cellence is a trtiee. indication of the Council's m()tives. Its recognition that . the Math Department's problem withthis system was not, merely, an adjustment problem, but an inherent problem which required an i!lllEledi.ate change is extremely im:portant to tile Student Forum. With respect to the policy itself, the Student Forum asserts tilat there exists many more inherent problems within Gel-Time s-chedule,. per se, which are a nnandate for its . removal. In lieu of this af- . firmation, the ~twdent Forum endorses eitherr the rein- statement of the previous schedule, or the considerati(}n the many students who preferred to utilize afternoon stady-time as opposed to earlv morning or late night time. This schedule is particularly dif- ficult when one considers the e;;~:tended duration of classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays and tbe later starting times - 2: 00, ()n Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. As a result, many students do not begin their stadying until after dinner. Under the previous system, one !!.ould easily schedule their .classes in the afternoon for 2 days per week. Gel-Time significantly reduces these study-time options for stude~ts. The second problem relates tp the new soCial life which Gel- Time has. created. Certainly, we would be kidding ourselves to Sl\ggest that academic poli'cies do not have a significant effect on the Union College social scene. It is clear that the new and received eve1yday rein- forcement of that material. The pressure system, therefore, served. to reduce acadennic pressure far better than the current system 9 because students tend to ·retain more of the material from class. 1. Gel-time sche<luling allows me time to stu..dy. 4 3 2 1 Historically speaking, the idea of staggered classes evolved at other schools out of necessity. Beacuse the semester .system virtually mandates that students enroll in four classes per semester, the system prevlously used at Union applied to other schools would require that students be in class for much of the day. The concept of staggering the classes., like the present Gel- Time schedule was an attempt to alleviate the students from that burden. Yet that burden never existed at Union, as most stui:ients only take 3 classes per semester-approximately' 2 hours and 20 minutes in class if taken four days per week. It is clear that Union C()llege did' not require this change. 2. Under the Gel-time scheduling, I use the extra time to study. 4 3 Z 1 3. The class sch.edulireg (M-W-F; T-TH) aJlows tlteclass inaterialto gel. 4 3 2 1 4. The.duratien ofdasses (6511ji.nutes. lO!i minutes) allows me to focus on the matenal. The Student Forum believes that if Gel-Time is retained for the· full two year trial period, that there will be only one class which can responsibly com- ment on the difference between the. two schedules. Fur- thermore, it is dear to thQse 4 3 2 I 5. !am able to effectLveily budget my time tmder Gel-time. · 4 3 2 I 6. Gel-time has effectively elinrinated mid-week partying. 4 3 2 l 7. Gel-time scheduling woxks well to reduce the academic presSure which accompanies the tri-semester.system. . 4 3 2 1 8. My academic pwC.ll\lance this past fall leDll was ;~cceptable to me. 4 3 2 I 9. Please discws Gel-1ime scheduling's stro~gpqints: of an alternative proposal. And, it is with this same commitment to education tb:at the Student Forum urgEs the Academic Affairs Council .and all faculty to seriously consider this proposal. The most· serio11s of Gel- Time's inherent problems is that the scbedul>e itself is not conductive to study at- mosphere. From the Student Forum Gel-Time survey, it was clear from ·th()se who responded that although sttl~ents believe that there is mo:re opportunity .. to study, very few of those students actually used the extra time, in fact, to study. (The recorded mea~s for those questions, 1 and!, were 2.82.and 2.02 respective]?.) Of course, with the same amount of classes as a whole, there really is not any m()re or less time to study; however, it is the organization of that time that makes the difference. Through indeJl!endent polling and from the special comments at the bottom of i;h!e survey, we have been able to make several inferences as ,to why many students do not use the, so- called, extra tim,e to study. The greatest impediment to study seems to be the time slots for classes. Apparently, many more students are forced to · take afternelon classes. Ac- cording to th~ Registrati()n Office, the atnelmt of classes offered in the morning this fall tenn decreased by 24 classes front fall term 1986-87. Futhermore, the! enrollment in afternoon classes has increased by over 30%. Tlris has affected schedule has changed com- who have been exposed to this plexion of the social life here. Gei-Time that it bas served as a Under the previous system, counter-productive element in Tuesday nigbt was the un- our educational experience. derstood, \party night.\ The And, while Gel-Time may be a .. present system has no single useful educational tool at some .day when a majority of students . schools. it is clear that it serves do not have classes. As a result., • to imdermine tha:t ideal here 'at students, depending on their Union. schedule, are going out during If the council does decide to all nights of the week. The lack retain Gel~Tirne, there are ()f organized social time seems several other issues which we t<l have resulted in increased believe ought to- be raised so partying. As one students stated that the faculty and A:A(\ can In their sul'Vey: \I love Gel- take action. Time. Now I can go out every 1. Many students object to night and still recover in time professors not being accessible for my next classes.\ The mean on their off-days. For example, response for the corresponding if a professor teaches Monday, question on the survey- \Gel- Wednesday, and Friday, he Time has reduced mid-week may not show up on Tuesdays partying\ .. was 1.98. and Thursdays .. In terms of reducing 2. Many students reported that academic pressure, the their professors admitted that students who responded almost they only taught 80% of their universally conCluded the Gel- material during the fall. Tinne has failed that respect. 3. Many professors had The mean for this question maintained a three lecture, one (number 7) was 2.1. The discussion day schedule under problem lies in the fact that the old system. Now, with only Union students take in the class three classes per week, either material in larger doses with one may retain the discussion breaks in theirs.chedules so that day, and lose -approximately tl!e material will \gel.\ This, twenty minutes of lecture time we assume, is based largely on , ( 150 minutes versus 130), or the the idea that material absorbed professor will lose the f.!,<) .. while taking breaks Will be vantage of a discw;sion day. easier to retain. This theory, 4. Students who em~on in albeit correct in some contexts, modern language and math rests on the presupposition that courses repeatedly emphasized the times during which the need for . everyday rein- material is to be absorbed, are forcement of class material. shorter. Could you imagine Although these are, studying for a test in 4 hour predominantly, adjustment periods with a 2 hour breaks? problems which can -be Under the previous system, remedied; we, nevertheless. students were exposed ~ 0 less believe .that the College Cern .. material during each session munity shoUld be aware of these LETTERS Deans Against Porn To the Editor: With reference to the· letter written by Chris Hartmann and published in Concordiensis on February 25: · It is true that we are especially sympathetic to the conceras of S.A.P. and A WARE. We are even more so after viewing the film Not A Love Story than we previously were. We are .also sympathetic · to the argument that one must tread very lightly when con- sidering the question of restrictions on free expression. However, we would miss what is to be the central issue at hand if we were to view the con- troversy as involving \ideas on sexism and. exploitation\ and \censorsb.ip.\ .Having in the past viewed a pornographic film, having recently viewed Not A Love Story, having thought hard about the obligations of members of a community toward each other, we are inexorably drawn to the conclu.sim that the central issue here is not the wisdom of cen- sorship. The central issue is the regard that members. of the Union College community have for each other, just as that is the central issue in plagiarism, sexual haJiassment, vandalism and violence by one student against another. In a perfectly healthy and \conscious\ community no one would perform any one of these acts. In ·a perfectly healthy com- munity, no one would propose that a pornographic film be shown in a public forwn. Why? Because showing such a film seems to us to constitute a powerful and gratuitous assault on the status and self-regard of a particular set of members of our community. We agree that we at the College \should spon- sor ... events to promote the sharing of ideals and goals.\ However, we cannot accept this as a justification for showing a pornographic film. What ideals and goals are promoted by such a film? We want to emphasize that we do not mean to dismiss lightly the views of most students who participated in the discussion concerning the pornographic film. Nor do we necessarily believe that at an earlier time in our lives we would have taken the position we are taking now. Has our \conscjousness been raised\ over the years on this and other questions.? Yes. Is it condescending of us to believe that others may have the same experience as the · issue of a pornographic film on campus continue to be discussed? We don't think so. Sincerely, James E. Underwood, Dean of the Faculty Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students If No Fraternities, Then No Debate To the Editor: Now that the ''porno debate\ is over, I would like to suggest why, it seems to me, the whole debate was an unfortunate diversion and evasion. Many of the arguments for and against showing a porno film :on campus seemed to me empirically unsubstantiated, moralistic;· or misfires. For instance, those Who criticize porno films for showing women as subservient but sexually potent would have to welcome porno films which show them as dominant and sexually potent. (Many porno fihns do this!) Was the issue one of quality- control <Jn the selection of porno fllms?. The \Free Speech Argument\ for showing porno films on campus is suspicious. One wants to ask, what ideas are being protected here and is showing such films a good way to express these ideas? Is the Student Fihn Committee ex- pressing its own ideas? Who gave them leave to use student mopey to push their own ideology? May other students rent films from the student budget in order to enjoy this l''ree Speech? Free Speech without ideas, without content, is absUld Much energy was wasted' h~re without it . being asked wlto was saying what. If you are willing to offend a significant segment of your commUility for the sake of entertainment, without giving a serious account of the ideas you want to protect, you are in ef- f.ect sa)'ing, you don't care, their, feEllings don't count. The fact that such con~ siderations aren't given more weight is interesting. Obviously sorrie pe()ple feel their position in this community is issues, so thatin the future, the appropriate changes can be made. Michael Hiller '88 f()r the exec. committee ofStudent Forum . precarwus. that their feelings are not taken seriously, that their interests are not ap- preciated. Women at Union who feel this way are, I think, justified. That bad arguments and abstract principles have to be trotted out when it is simply a matter of doing without a certain rather low en- tertainment is a testimony to gross insensitivity. This is connected with the reason why I find the debate diversionary and unfortunate. I suspect that what really makes some women feel not quite at home in this community has to do with the incidence of date- rape, with sexual harassment and with the sexist culture of the fraternities. The porno debate is a misleading symbol, a \displacement\ from these very real and painful concerns. It is too bad that \political capital\ has been spent fighting a symptom. An hypothesis: The fraternity \culture\ has fostered an at- titude that makes it \honorable\ for \brothers\ to hush up crimes committed agains women; it disables young men from participating with young women in new and productive relations; it promotes sexual i'·etardation and poverty of imagination; it oppresses men who aren't in· clined to Bruderbund cultism. If some women and their friends feel they can attack only the tail of the beast, porno films, this is a backwards testimony to the power of real--not merely cinematic-sexism on campus. A suggestion : Why don't we worry about date-rape, harassment of women--and men- ... , why not dismantle the fraternity cUlture? In the right environment, the question of pornography either woUld not come up or would seem ap- propriately trivial and in- conseq uentlal. Felmon John Davis Assistant Professor of Philosophy

CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 198g Page 11 You Can't Please Everyone All of the Time To the Editor: I'm writing iJl reply to the letters written by Professors Laursen and Reynolds. Both pro~essors ask l:lS to substitute our own ethnic-radical backgrounds into a degrading movie (i.e. now women are depicted in porno~) and see how we like it thea. Well, this has been done for us: Mel Brooks an anti-semite, Eddie Murphy a racist, and Monty Python a bwiCh of bigots. These are m>t true because these movies are considered entertainment, as are pornographic films. Pornos are NOT documentaries, they ARE entertainment. If you doll't feel that pornos should be sh&wn on campus and sponsored by the school, that's fine. But i'f we can't show these 'degrading' filrn.s I don't think the school should spons&r anti- semitism, as it does. Union College sponsors 7 courses involving Shakespeare, a known anti-semite. So professors, .according to you, the school :should ban and censor these oooks. This is why there is the first amendment, because what may be offending to you may be an right fer me and vice versa. You can't please everyone all the time. On last topic I would like to bring up is one of responsibilitY.. As a twenty-year-old l old enough to go to war and to vote) I feel that I am responsible enough to watch pornographic films and not have them affect my lift. If you don't feel that the students on this campus are that responsible, go talk to Admissions and tell them, maybe we'll get a whole lot of stuffed shirts and feminists for the class of '92. But until then, as long as the 'irresponsible' have a majority here, you're just S.O. of L. s· l mcere y, Edward Kulback '90 Student Forum Deems Gel-Time Ineffective The Student F ()[\UIIl is en- couraged by the Academic Affairs Council's recent at· tempt to impr'ove the present Gel· Time schedule. This clear committment t() continuing a tradition of aeademic ex- cellence is a trtte indication of the Council's motives. Its recognition that the Math Department's problem with this system was not, merely, an adjustment problem, but an inherent problem which required an immediate change is extremely imp-ortant to the Student Forum. With respect to the policy itself, the Student Forwn asserts that there exists many more inher-ent problems within Gel· Time schedule, per se, which are a mandate for its removal. In lieu. of this af- . firmation, the Student Forum endorses either the rein· statement of t:he previous schedule, or the consideration the many students who preferred to utilize afternoon study-time as opposed to earlv morning or late night time. This schedule is particularly dif- ficult when one considers the extended duration of classes on Tuesdays and Thursdays and the later starting times - 2:00, on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. As a result, many students do not begin their studying until after dinner. Under the previous system, one could easily schedule their classes in the afternoon for 2 days per week. Gel-Tirne significantly reduces these study-time options for students. The second problem relates to the new social life which Gel- Time has created. Certainly, we would be kidding ourselves to suggest that academic poli'Cies do not have a significant effect on the Union College social scene. It is clear that the new 1. Gel-time scheduling allows me time to study. 4 3 2 2. Under the Gel-time scheduling, I usc the ..:ura time to study. 4 3 2 3. The dass schedcl!ng (!1.1· W-F; T·TII) allo1v.s the class material to gel. 4 3 2 4. The duratil>n of classes (65 minutes, 105 :minutes) allows me to focus on the materiaL 4 3 2 1 5. I am able to effectively budget my time under Gel-time. 4 3 2 1 6. Gel-time has effectively eliminated mid·VIeek partying. 4 3 2 7. Gel-time scheduling wmks well to reduce the academic pressure which accompanies the tri -semester :sy.stem. 4 3 2 I 8. My academic paforrnance this past falltcnn was acceptable to me. 4 3 2 I 9. Please discuss Gel-time scheduling's strong point.s: of an alternative proposal. And, it is with this sameconunitment to education that the Student Forum urges the Academic Affairs Council and all faculty to seriously consider this proposal. The most serious of Gel- Time's inherent problems is that the schedule itself is not conductive to study at- mosphere. From the Student Forwn Gel-Time survey, it was clear from those wllo responded that although students believe that there is m()re opportunity to study, very few of those students actually used the extra time, in fact, to study. (The recorded means for those questions, 1 and 2, were 2.82 and 2.02 respectively.) Of course, with the same amount of classes as a whole, there really is not any more or less time to study; however, it is the organization of that time that makes the difference. Through independent polling and from the special conunents at the bottom of the survey, we have been able to make several inferences as to why many students do not use the, so- called, extra time to study. The greatest impediment to study seems to be the time slots for classes. Apparently, many more students are forced to take afternoon classes. Ac- cording to the Registration Office, the amount of classes offered in the m()rning this fall term decreased by 24 classes from fall tEnn 1986-87. Futhermore, the enrollment in afternoon classe:;bas increased by over 30%. This has affected schedule has changed com- plexion of the social life here. Under the previous system, Tuesday night was the un- derstood, ''party night.'' The present system has no single day when a majority of students do not have classes. As a result, students, depending on their schedule, are going out during all nights of the week. The lack of organized social time seems to have resulted in increased partying. As one students stated in their survey: \I love Gel- Time. Now I can go out every night and still recover in time for my next classes.\ The mean response for the corresponding question on the survey - \Gel· Time has reduced mid-week partying\· was 1.98. In terms of reducing academic pressure, the students who responded almost universally concluded the Gel· Time has failed that respect. The mean for this question (munber 7) was 2.1. The problem lies in the fact that Union students take in the class material in larger doses with breaks in their schedules so that the material will \gel.\ This, we assume, is based largely on the idea that material absorbed while taking breaks will be easier to retain. Tllis theory, albeit correct in some contexts, rests on the presupposition that the times during which material is to be absorbed, are shorter. Could you imagine .studying for a test in 4 hour periods with a 2 hour breaks? Under the previous system, students were exposed to less material during each session and received everyday rein- ~orcement of that material. The pressure system, therefore, served to reduce academic pressure far better than the current system because students tend to retain more of the material from class. Historically speaking, the idea of staggered classes evolved at other schools out of necessity. Beacuse the semester system virtually mandates that students enroll in four classes per semester, the system previously used at Union applied to other schools would require that students be in class for much of the day. The concept of staggering the classes, like the present Gel- Time schedule was an attempt to alleviate the students from that burden. Yet that burden never existed at Union, as most students only take 3 classes per semester-approximately, 2 hours and 20 minutes in class if taken four days per week. It is clear that Union College did not require this change. The Student Forum believes that if Gel-Time is retained for the full two year trial period, tha·t there will be only one class which can responsibly com- ment on the difference between the two schedules. Fur- thermore, it is clear to those who have been exposed to this Gel-Time that it has served as a coUnter-productive element in our educational experience. And, while Gel-Time may be a useful educational tool at some schools, it is clear that it serves to undermine that ideal here at Union. If the council does decide to retain Gel-Time, there are several other issues which we believe ought to be raised so that the faculty and AAG can take action. 1. Many students object to professors not being accessible on their off-days. For example, if a professor teaches Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, he may not show up on Tuesdays and Thursdays. 2. Many students reported that their professors admitted that they only taught 80% of their material during the fall. 3. Many professors had maintained a three lecture, one discussion day schedule under the old system. Now, with only three classes per week, either one may retain the discussion day, and lose approxima~ely twenty minutes of lecture lime ( 150 minutes versus 130), or the professor will lose the ad- vantage of a discussion day. 4. Students who enroll in modern language and math courses repeatedly emphasized the need for everyday rein- forcement of class material. Although these are, predominantly, adjustment problems which can be remedied, we, nevertheless, believe that the College Com· mt'lni.ty should be aware of these LETTERS Deans A·gainst Porn ro the Editor: With reference to the letter Mitten by Chris Hartmann and ()Ublished in Concordiensis on February 25: It is true that we are especially sympathetic to the concerns of S.A.P. and AWARE. We are even more so after viewing the film Not A Love Story than we previously were. We are also sympathetic to the argument that one must tread very lightly when con- sidering the question of restrictions on free expressioH. However., we would miss what isto be the central issue at hand if we were to view the con- tr()versy as involving \ideas on sexism and exploitation\ and \censorship.\ Having in the J)ast viewed a pornographic film, having recently viewed Not A Love Story, having thought hard about the obligations of members of a eonununity toward each other, we are inexorably drawn to the conclusion that the central issue h.ere is not the wisdom of cen- sorship. The eentral issue is the regard that members of the Union College conununity have fo1 each other, just as that is the central issue in plagiarism, sexual harassment, vandalism and violence by one student against another. In a perfectly healthy and \conscious\ community no one would perform any one of these acts. In a perfectly healthy com- munity, no one would propose that a pornographic film be shown in a public farwn. Why? Because showing such a film seems to us to constitute a powerful and gratuitous assault on the stat us and self-regard of a partkular set of members of our community. We agree that we at the CoUege \should spon- sor ... events to promote the sharing of ideals and goals.\ However, we cannot accept this as a ju.stification for showing a pornographic film. What ideals and goals are promoted by such a film? We want to emphasize that we do not mean to dismiss lightly the views of most students who participated in the discussion concening the pornographic film. Nor do we necessarily believe that at an earlier time in our lives we would have taken the position we are taking now. Has ollr \consciousness been raised\ over the years on this and other questions? Yes. Is it condescending of us to believe that oth.ers may have the same experience as the issue of a pornographic film on campus continue to be discussed? We don't tllink so. Sincerely, James E. Underwood, Dean of the Faculty Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students If No Fraternities, Then No Debate To the Editor: Now that the \porno debate\ is over, I would like to suggest why, it seems to me, the whole debate was an unfortunate di-version and evasion. Many of the arguments for a11d against showing a porno film on campus seemed to me empirically unsubstantiated, rn<Jralistic,' or misfires. For instance, those who criticize p()rno films for showing women as subservient but sexually p()tent would have to welcome p()rno films which show them as d()minant and sexually potent. (Many porno films do this!) Was the issue one of quality· c~ntrol on the selection of porno films? The \Free Speech Argument\ for snowing pomo films on campus is suspicious. One wants to ask, what ideas are being protected here and is sh<>wing such films a good way to express these ideas? Is the Student Film Committee ex- pressing its own ideas? Who gave them leave to use student rn(}ney to push their own ideology? May other students rent films from the student budget in order to enjoy this Free Speech? Free Speech without ideas, without content, is absurd. Much energy was wasted here without it being asked who was saying what. If you are willing to offend a significant segment of your community for the sake of e11tertainment, without giving a serious account of the ideas you want to protect, you are in ef- fect saying, you don't care, their feelings don't coWlt. 1'he fact that such con- siderations aren't given more weight is interesting. Obviously some people feel their position in this community is issues, so that in the future, the appropriate changes can be made. Michael Hiller '88 fortheexec. committee of Student Forum precanous, that their feelings are not taken seriously, that their interests are not ap- preciated. Women at Union who feel this way are, I think, justified. That bad arguments and abstract principles have to be trotted out when it is simply a matter of doing without a certain rather low en- tertainment is a testimony to gross insensitivity. This is connected with the reason why I find the debate diversionary and W1fortunate. I suspect that what really makes some women feel not quite at home in this community has to do with the incidence of date· rape, with sexual harassment and with the sexist culture of the fraternities. The porno debate is a misleading symbol, a \displacement\ from these very real and painful concerns. It is too bad that \political capital\ has been spent fighting a symptom. An hypothesis: The fraternity \culture\ has fostered an at- titude that makes it \honorable\ for \brothers\ to hush up crimes committed agains women; it dtsables young men from participating with yollllg women in new and productive relations; it promotes sexual retardation and P<JVerty of imagination; it. oppresses men who aren't m- clined to Brnderbund cultism. If some women and their friends feel they can attack only the tail of the beast, porno films, this is a backwards testununy to the power of real--not merely cinematic-sexism on camp~. A suggestion: Why don't we worry about date-r1:1pe, harassment of women--and men- ... , why not dismantle the fraternity culture\' In the right environment, the question of pornography either would not come up or would seem ap- propriately trivial and in· consequential. Felmon John Davis Assistant Professor of Philosophy

Page 12 WOULD YOU LIKETOBEA GATESMAN? Come and learn more about giving tours. Applications will be distributed j , . and questions answered in the College Center during lunch on Wednesday and Thursday, March 9 and 10~ Reappointment Review Shaffer Library is now soliciting recommendations relative to the Reappointment Review for Instructor Maribeth Krupczak, Collection Development Librarian.· All interested students, Faculty, and staff are encouraged to contact Ann Seeman,Librarian at 6277 INTEREST GROUP HOUSING The Student Affairs Council will be ,, CONCORDJENSIS, March 3, 1988 THURSDAY NIGHT IS '.WINGS NIGHT AT DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT Dutch Hollow :P·ub Sund:~y Nlght ~Special's ,, i i' J Before the movie~: Stop in for a pizz·a and get a :pitcher of soda FREE. <l Dove bars at $1.45 10¢ HOT WINGS- Free small soda with every purchase of 20 or more Stop in and fiH your grum-b\elHes! . ' . THE RATHSKELLAR WHI Be Taking Work Applications. For Spring Term ~Feb. 29 Through March 5 Stop By And Fill One Out. ''Mom says the house just isfit the same '\Vithout me,. even thoUgh its a lot cleaner.'' considering requests for • just because your Mom is far away, doesn't mean you can't be dose. You can still share the love and . laughter ori AT&T Lon£ Distance Service. the group housing in the first weeks of the spring term. Groups interested in obtaining housing should submit a proposal, including a description, . rationale, and number and names of students to Suzie Benak, Psychology Department by Monday, March 28.th. For more information, call Prof. Benack at x 6258. 1 It costs less than you think to hear that she likes · the· peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a. . call. You can clean your room later. Reach outand touch someone~ ATaT The right choicei I l l 1 l i

CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 Page 13 - SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Dr. Ric:h,ard Garwi.n ·Ri.d.i-cules Star· Wars • • ~· .Revi.ew :QyPRABJRCHAKRABARTY F.or two days last week Union College was gifted with the visit of a world-renowned physicist Dr. Richar.d Garwin. Dr. Garwin was in a sense the \engineer\ of the hydrogen• bomb, a mere footnote in his long- list of aecornpljshments. These incltide being an IBM fellowship at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center in , Yorktown Heights, N.Y. and positions as adjunct research fellow in the Kennedy School of G(}vernment at Harvard, professor•at-large at Cornell, and adjunct professor of physics at Colum:bia. Dr. GaFwin's broad understal}.dlng of scientific knowledge has l~d him to such achievements in the Council on Foreign Relations, . and the President's Science Advisory Committee. (1962-65, 1969.;72) .• As ·a representative in the American Academy of Arts • • • Garwin Savages SDI at Colloquium By ALANDESALVIO Dr. Richard Garwin was the acclaime(l speaker at a well attended Physics department colloquium last week, It was titled \The Physics in Star Wars'' and Dr. Garwin showed conclusively that his chOice of title was inc(}rrect. It should have been \The LACK of Physics in Star Wars.\ Dr. Garwin systematically presented each prospective anti-ICBM technology as first improbable and then as inef- ficient when compared with the basic defense .of simply building more boosters. Adding insult to injury, he concluded his talk by revea1ing the inefficiency of both the shuttle and the space station as military platforms. Many verbose Strategic Defense promoters were seen leaving the site of the myth- slaughter, the Rojansky room, in a state of shock. Much of Dr. Garwin's revelations dealth with \delta vee,\ astFonautic parlance for change in -velocity. AU of hJs argtiments boiled down to a simple chart giving payloard to total initial weight ratios for various final payload velocities, given typical chemical rocket exhaust velocity and com- bustion efficiencty. It must be mentioned . that certain Two Physics Professional · Up For Reappointmeh1 The Fhysics Department is · conducting a reapp<)intment re- view for Professors Lazlo Bak:- say and Richard Magahlz. Per- . \ sqns wishing to contribute oral · or writt~n testimony regarding Professor Magahiz or Profess- or Baksay\s reappointment are encoUiagedtto contact Profes- soi· David Peak, Chair, Physics Department. \Physics {lS At1: an Artist Working. with l,aser and Holography\ Joint Colloquim of the Society of Physics · Sllrdents, ~e Department·of.Arts, and · the Physics Department Attila Csaji . Center for Advancec;t Visual Studies Massachusetts lnstititue of Technology, , Cambridge, MA and Museum of Holography, New York, NY OATE:Thursday, March 3, 1988 PLACE: Arts Department, Auditorium (room 215)TIME: 4:45 p.m. Refreshments wlllt>il si»VIld at 4:30 Alii Are Welcon19 ~nd Sciences, of which he is a lll~mber, he has visited Union .College· · in the · George ltistiakowsky Visitin~ Scholars :Program. Dr. Garwin's high level of ac)rievement in tlle United .States military and g&vernment llas led him .to many fears about tile United States defense JlO)i~y. This was the maj.or topic ~f his ·discussions given at 1Jnion last week. These · in- <!Luded: a talk on the •I.N.F. and tile Future of Nuclear Weapons, a-talk on \Nuclear Technology\ and a colloquium on ''Physics in ~tarWars:and Industry.\ I at_tended the Physics colloquium co-sponsored by the :Pilysics department and found it to be extremely thought- provoking, and enjoyrable. Dr. .(}.ar-win 'began. his lecture by ()Utlining many myths he found i11volving space. · technology. -rllrough reasoned an<llysis javolvirtg mathematics, Dr. Garwin elucidated many in- <lonsistencies in tile \Star ·Esteemed witnesses (Juestioned the lack of the use ()£ staging te.cl:miques to re<luce the liecessary weight ratio, but :it -was furtively asswned such Slleakihess would be employed IJyboth the Qffense and defense, 11egating the effect on the eKample. The most developed ABM t~<lhnology involves kinetic kill devices striking the booster 'WbUe it is still climbing out of the atmosphere. This requires targeting cap!lbillty. we .possess t()day, but after the very small :in.terceptor is lifted into orbit and then directed at the ICBM at the necessary speed, and tilen mUltiplied by the number.. xeq11ired in orbit to have enough ()Ver the launch area during the :xi:ght time, the individual in- terceptor cost becomes com- parable to that of the ICBM it self, making the defense illefficient. · A. similar argument defeats the Excabllur nuclear-pumped very short wav:elength popup laser. These device~ are in- ten:ded to he launched from the surface of the earth at the in- stant a Soviet strike is launched .. md then reach a. !)Oint from which they can damage the enemy boosters while they are still in their boost phase. This . requires an incredible weight ratio. Dr. Garwin;s critique of the sbuttle detailed the immense rEduction in payload weight DON'T MIS$ I.Tl ./JNJON REVIEW OF BOOKS MARCH .SELEf;TION JAMESGLBCK CHAOS: MAKING A NEW SCIENCE {1987) WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9, 1'9B8 COLLEGE • CENTER CA9ARET, 1:00 SHARP MODERATOR: PROFESSOR DAVID PEAK \I was caUght up and sweptal~ng bV the flow of tlils astonishing chl'onrcle of sdenttflc though. If has beenalong. long time · since I flnis~ed ,a'oook anti ll'!'media!ely started readrng rta11 over agrun for sheer . pleasure.\ . Lewis Thomas, author 91 LIVES OF A.CELL . • \This is stunning wcrk, a deeply exciting sub~ctln the hands of.<dlrst-rata sclence writer. Thelrrpllcatbils d the research James Glak;k sets .fortharebreathtaklng.• Barry LOp;;z:, author of ARCTIC DflEAMS \Gielcl<s CHAOS is not ontr enthralling and ptec:ISEI, bill full (j beaUtifUIIv. strange and . strangalybaautlful f!leas.• [)()uglasHofsltJ.dtar author of OOlJEl, ESCHER, BACH _.._ .......... - Wars\ technologies. These myths included problems in the velocity technology, the of- fensive-defensive mass ratio and other S.O.I. weapons, Overall, Dr. Garwin proved thatS'.D.I. is not cost efficient in its attempt . to prevent the on- slau~ht of Soviet missiles; . he also showed major .scientific inadequacies of thepregram. Towards the ·end of the lec- ture Dr. Garwin explained his view~ about tbe future of the S.D.I. program. Dr. · Garwi.n feelS; the S.DJ.. program should fil~ for ban.kr1.1ptcy. However, he points out that maJ1y itn· portant breakthroqghs have come out of the prqgram, not dirE:ctly related to \Star Wars\ tecnnology. He believes the Penta:g()n - should determine whieh ones are feasible and budget money to these. Dr. Garwin feels that S.D.I. is Pr«Jsident Reagan's pet project which will end when his ad• ministration ends. when. the shuttle is launched into ;polar orbit, the type of orbit most military satellites require. His grand finale involved the proposed use of the. space station as a repairhouse for satetlit~s, in particular the ludi~rousness of moving a satellite from polar orbit to the station's. equatorial orbit and back again, in terms of fuel required. It would be far easier to land the satellite on Earth and relaunch it into polar orbit. Altogether .Or. Garwin's talk prov-ed entertaining and enli.ghtening, and his use of basic mechanics was easily followed by the majority of the crowd. On the other hand, the sub<lued nature of the gathering after the conclusion of the talk gave the impression that many viewed it as subversive. Several of the stunned listeners' faces. seemed to suggest · the quest (Oft asked in the DoD): How coUld he suggest Physics ap- plies to National Defense? \I tend-to agree with you-especially since 6·10~•vt;; is my lucky .number.\ From What's So Funny About Science? by Sidney Harris Space Capsule: Jupiter By MARTIN HECK Each planet in our :solar system is known by its own unique characteristics. Venlls is · known by the thick atmosphere that shrouds it, hiding it from our sight. Mars is referred to as the Red Planet, and Saturll has long been recognized for' its rings. Jupiter is distinguished by the large, oval, red eye, many times the size of the earth, which is. constantly revolving on its surface. The Great Red Spot has IJeen an enigma to scientists f()r over three hundred years. 'rh<>agh Voyager flybys in the 19.7()'s led · researchers to believe that it . was a large atmospheric stllrm, its origin and the forces b~hind it immortality remained a mystery. Similiar storms on . ·Earth la~t' otdyweeks, andtheir power and intensiW diln:inish · rapidly. In the. novel {and . m()vie), 2010 A Space ()dessey Two, the Spot consisted of . thousands of huge ~piral · monoliths, ultimately chCinging . J uplter into a second sun for our . solar system. Recent ·. discoveries, to the char gin of · many romantic science-fiction : devotees, make this scenario · very unlikely. Hesearchers at the Ulliver- sity of Te;x:as at Austin believe they have reproduced a model to the great atmospperic storm that is the. source of the im· mense vortex. The scientists at the university based their research on a computer model created by Dr. Philip S. Mar- cus. Meyers believed that the disturbance created by rotating a· flUid at sufficient speed could generate the forination of a single, large whirlpool within the fluid; a process he likened to. the rebirth of the mythical Phoenix. The University of Texas researchers took this model and applied it t() a body of fluid. They rotated a tank of liquid four times per second, and many small whirlpool develop into single eddy, analogous in shape, and behavior to tl}e.Gr~at, · Red Spot of Jupiter. 'The ex- perimenters have consistantly recreated the phenomenon under such a wide variety of circumstances they are con- vinced they have succeeded in discovering the fundamental characteristics of the Great RedSpot. . _ From this point, researchers hope to aid in the understanding ·Of atmospheric storm movements on Earth, and fluid dynamics in general. SPS Sponsors Attila Csaji By REBECCA KOOPMAN Tl!e Society of Physics Stttdents will sponsor a C()-][()qtiium on Thursday, March 3, in conjunction with the Physics and Arts Departments. AttUa Csaji will speak on the topic \Physics as Art: an Artist Working With Laser and Hol()graphy.\ Attila Csaji was born in Union Math Club Presents . Professor Carl George of the Dept. of Biology Geometry and The Architecture of Ed~ ward Tuckerrna~ Potter _with special reference to the Nott Memorial. · Mar.ch 9 4:30~5:30 pm SS105 Aefreshments will be served Physics Has: You Baffled? PRIVATE PHYSICS TUfORING Tony Vrondissis 370-6831 Stuart Pratt 377-6415 Group Rates AvialablE Physics Turtoring · for AOP Students M, W, th 7·10 p .. m. Hum. 014 Szepsi, Hungary, which is now tile present Czechoslova:kia. He was educated in Budapest and Eger and was one of the le;aders of the progressive art movement. He has partic:i:pated ill over 100 intemdional exhibitions and sympo~ia, in- cluding such countries as France, Germany, and Hungary. In the late 19'1()'&; he and physics pmfesoli Dr. Norbert Kroo, began to in- vestigate the use (}f lasers in art; the subject of this talk. In 1930, before tens of thousands of visitors, the first live laser symphony put on by Csaji and Kroo in the Hungarian National Gallery. In 1984, Csaji par- ticipated in a world exhibition of holograms, and his design was used fora laser crater-light clock in Budapest's new air· port. Csaji is currently a Soros Foundation Fellow at the Center for Advanced Visual Studies at MlTand the Museum of Holography in New York. SPS is proud to be able to sponsor a speaker with such prestigious international stature. The talk will take place in the Arts Building, room 215, at 4:45 PM. Refreshments will be served at 4:30 PM. All are welcome. A Society for You: The Mensa By EGYED ZOLTAN Mensa International is the worldwide organization Ylltl are looking for. With us, Y,!JU can find the person of your interest. There is one condition to qualify for Mensamernbe:rship: you have to have higtter IQ (intelligence quotient) than 98 percent of the rest of IIlankind. The cUtooQff line is aoo11t 140. After you .become a m~,ember, you'll get the monthl-y news c·ontaining the meetings., the life of the organization and - of course · jokes. you can have your message· in it in less than 70 words. People usually use it to find others with coiiimon interests, to make new friends all around the world and to get information first hand. If you are planning to visit other countries, it's always good if you have friends there. If you want to know more about it, or to join us, call me at 370-6053 or 372.,8948, or send VAX mail to UC222EGYEDZ. ' l;. ,,-' ~ ... v.•-o'l\< \\\'·--~·_ ,·

Page 14 CONCORDJENSfS, Marc!•. 3, 1988 ARTS & FILMS - ................. , ..........•....... : Crossgates Mall. Cinema: . . ' ' . • Fri .. & Sat • e OOQ 8 • • : 1. Hair Spray 1:05, 4:00, 7:55, 10:25 12:30 : e • The mystery of \.It's Like • 2 The Last Emperor 12:00,3:20,.6:45,10:10 • This\hasfinallybeenrevealed. • : Those funk.y yellow and black : 3 Broadcast News 12:40, 3:50, 6:50, 9:50 '12:35 e posters that all of us have en- • • countered all over campus • 4 A Night in the • came to life on stage in the •. Life of Jimmy Rearden 1:15, 4:50, 7:35, 10:15 12:20 : College Center Thursday • • February 25 at Cabaret. • 5 Three Men • The entertainment for the d B b 1 50 4 7 o 1 o 20 12 25 e evening was provided by BLAS, : an a a Y .: · · :t 5 , ·· : 4 ' · : · : • {Black and Latin Alliance of e • Students). 'The show, organ~ed • 6 Moonstruck 1:55, 4:35, 7:25, 10:30 12:40 • by David Berry began with • • BLAS' s very talented gospel • 7 Shoot to Kill 1:20, 4:25, 7:00, 9:35 12:10 • choir. The group of twenty : : students .sang various tunes • 8 Ironweed 12:20,3:15, 10:15 • from a spiritual medley along e • with a number of other powerful • 9 Frantic 12:55,3:40, 6:35, 9:40 12:05 8 religious songs; They captured • • the audience with their strong, • • • \'I 0 Good Morning • energetic V()ices. • Vietnam 12:39, 3~25, .6:25, 9:25 • The next act to follow was tap • • dancer Dwight Pierre. Dwight's • i 1 A t' J k 12 45 3 40 6 15 9 05 11 55 • kicks and , twists were per- • · · c IOn ac · sQn : ' : • · : • : ·· : · • formed with great .skill and e • coordination. He was incredible • 12 Serpent & e· hufflin 1.~ • d t · • The Rainbow 1:30, 4:(}'5, 6:20,. 9:15 12:00 • s · g,,Sllo..lppmg an appmg all over the stage. •••••••••·••••••••·••••••••••••••••• The third act sent the By SUZANNE SHAK:mR audience roaring; the band led ~y senior Darrell Shepherd \'rocked\ the entire college center. He began with the song Dreamer followed by Lies by Jonathan Butler, Sbilting Star and severalother popular urban . contemporary songs. The band perfor~ed in such a professional manner one might llave easUy forgotten that they were sitting at Union College's Cabaret and not at the Meadowlands or Madison Square Garden. Four Alpha Phi Alpha brothers hit the stage next with their ''step show,\ a traditional type of performance for black fraternities and sororities. Through their sharp steps and rhyming chants the steppers gave the audience a lesson in black history. The show .ended with two superb authentic African tribal dances,. the Lambda ~d the Mangani. Senior Eddie Remy briefly explained that the two dances trace the heritage of blacks as free people in Africa WRUC. THE NEW 8.97 to slaves in the United State:S. 'ibis journey across the world was reflected in the music ~!ld dancing wbi<!h started off softly and slowly and grad11ally became louder and swiftet. The dancers took part . ,iJJ a two .. day W<lr'kshop led by pi]a[) YaYa, an .African rnClster drummer-dancer who ~as visiting from· Mall, West A:ftiea. The two ()tlle:r drummers were recruited .fr()m the Hamilton · Hill 1\rts·Center. By the ~nd of the show the entire audien<!e was up and dancing some in. tbe ctowd·others right on stage. Tile acts were li:ilked togethei by five short skits, called ''Wo~rds of Life'' each of whiclr in- troduced tile act to follow. The ev:ening was a tremen- dous succef!s, the turnout was .one of the largest for Cal)aret yet this year. The audie11ce coUldn't have been mo:re en- thUSiastic about the show w-llich they actively participatecl in. The performers deservecl an outstanding round of appl~use and tlley received it. · Arts Brlefs This is :the transitional edition of Olll' lovely countdown. Oooooh, please he patient, there are many thickets to be counted, but dan't:s-.veep them lUlder the carpet. . . .. •,. • J The cast of \Chap1er Two\ a~ Union March 9 Art And Physics lecture Thursday, March 3 at 4:45 iFt the College Center Auditorium. Atilla Csaji, a Massachusetts--based artist, will give a talk on \Physics as an Art:\ An Artist Working with Laser and Holography.\ This is a free presentation, sponsored by the Society of Physics Students, the Arts Depart- ment, and the Physics Department. Rep.eratory Theater Of America · Comes To Unio·n Wednesday, March 9 at 8:00p.m. in the Nott Memorial Theater, \Chapter Two,\ a Neil Simon play, is being performed. The play is being sponsored by the Office of Stuclent Activities. Tickets are $3.00 and may be purchased at the door. Folk Dancers On Sunday, March 13 at the Palace Theater in Albany, there will be a Slavic dancing demonstration by the Tri-City Folk Dancers. It will begin at 2:20p.m. At 3:00p.m. the Family Concert will begin. Some tickets are still available for $3.00 by calling the Box Office at 518-455-4663. THE DUTCH PIPERS & GARNET· MINS_TREL~LES \CONCERT IN THE 'ATR.IU.M\: ~ Tliursd•y, March 3·~·-,.-- .. , ;~.- .. ~, .. \ ja···. p M.. -~ ·c '' .- ' . . ... ·,:- :kl.s :·~ept. 4rri~m .... :}~. ?· •. ~~?fllrrti,~ .. ,ReqJJJ?;ripN !q_ F,9LL()YY, TW .LW Band Robyn I:litchcock Pegues Album Glore of Frogs 1 2 3 4 8 5 Jonath~~n Richman Camper Van Beethoven Pat() Banton If I Should Fall From Grace ... Modern Lovers-S8 Vampire Can Mating Oven Never Give In A..&::M I:sland R:.ot:l!ldel' PiLch-~-=Tent P:MRC F()rehead RelatiVity 6 7 4• 8 8.97 TOP ADDS Beauty Constant Jazz Butcher Govenunent Cheese :&!gertones Martini Ranch, PleasurePirates, Splatc;~ts PROGRAMMING NOTES Like the 'Enemy Fishcotheque C'm!ln Back to Bowling Green ... Eagertones ADVENTlJR E PICKS Bambi Scam, Arms Akimbo ,, Reptile Anyone inter.ested in being txained as a WRU~ ~ce Jay should attend a m~ting for new members on ,Tuesday, March 81h in lhc C()].lege Center 4th Floor Lounge at 6:30p.m., or call Nrm (new progn~m dude) at x42l6 INTERESTED IN INNOVATIVE NEW MUSIC? If so, you should cons icier being trained as a WRUC D.J. There will be a meeting on Tuesday, March 8 at 6:30 p.m. in the Mobil Lounge (4th Floor Carnegie) to discuss training. WRUC T'RIVIA HERE ARE THE FINAL RESULTS FROM TRIVIA 1988. GREEKS DORMS Phi Neat G~.:.~ys ZBT Kappa Alpha 55 i6 4 INDEPENDENTS Hickok West Fox Wast13d Goats 38 Floyd 35 Bob 24 SIW's g Squirrels FromHell 3 Clueless Wonders 3 Express 1 Tracey 1 28 6 1 There were 15 stumpers overall. Many thankS to all those who participa1e•d We look forward to doing it once again in the Winter of 1989. , ThJs· W e·ek·ls · ·o·n- Campus Movies ' ' . I - . . ~ . ' . ' 'THE BIG EASY ---.....----......, ·Mar. 4-6, Fri.- Sun. 7.$.11 Ono of the !'.r~~r·s 10 ' best. Dennis Quaid and Elle<n Bar-kin ~ ·.AU &JlOWings at the Coll&sJe Qlnter Au d. Tickets are $1 for Union students. Set in steamy NewOr~ans, THE .BIG · EASY is in the tradition of the classics. Dennis Quaid is a cop who isn't uncorruptable and Ellen Barkin is the . : reporter who is trying 1C> uncover his story. ' The problem is 1 they fall in love. AL TEREO STATES- Mar. 7, Wed. 7.9.11 . William Hurt . 1 · · While studying schizoph:te)'lic patient~.-.~.a. psychologist (Willia~ Hurt) discovers tlla+ through s~nsory deprivation and the \JS9t of Indian m·ush~oonis there is a way to physically regres~ back to the ~ay of ~~r:ly man . NO f9«t or 11&VerJ~ge alfOwec:t ... , .... ....._......._i..- _________ ..,;.,.,;.;..;a._.;.--------....,.....L-J ._ .. '4·~·. . ·. . ;;'• - .~ ~ '

CONCORDIENSIS, Mareh 3, 1988 Page lS t ·~ ~- ARTS & FILMS Busy Weekend at Proctor's The Mesmerizing Mummensch11nz .• •• By C:ATilY MARKES roles .in a make-believe life. But above all, I .found the per- formance to be extremely entertaining. ,, 'rhe history of Mum- rnenschanz began with a the~tre company out of Z.urich, whose performances are now cmly in Switzerland and the USSR. This company trained the ·current members of the American company: Eric Beatty, Tina Kr.onis and Michael Rock. These three have been performing tog~ther since tbe summer of 1986; all have interesting backgrounds based upon their studies of theatre and dance. big \thumbs-up . ., From this point on, there were numerous acts which used black and white foam to create various seemingly living creatures of all s!lapes and sizes. There were also huge plastic bags. which came to life, and black velcrQ-o headed people who received rather interesting facial ex- pressions from pieces of con- 0 torted, colored f()am thrown at b their heads. .6: Through its imaginative wfi) simplicity, Mummenschanz Mummenschan~: it was a name I had heard ,many times in the past,. yet pr.evio11s to this yell.r, I never had the caance to discover what it was an about. Last Thursday night, [ finally . had the opportunity to see this show at Proctor's Tlleatre in downtown Schenectad1. Upon hearing that this was ~· mime performance, I envisioned a classical face,painted cast of entertainers pretendin~ there were imaginary walls around them, etc. Instead, t:he cast members-faces and all-were totally masked in black, as they mnevatively created different sitaations using \sile11t'' props of polyethylene foam's. velcro materials and a bit ()f human ingenuity. It was an i11triguing atmosppere of light-hearted game playing, of e~ploring Thursday's show began with giant white .hands-probably 3' by 5'~which prior to running tllrough the audience to pat people on the head or steal their coats, had opened the curtains onstage to start the show with a allowed eacll member of the b: audience to have a slightly § differ-ent intetpretation of the humor used in the show. The basis of each new· act was unexpected, which added to my enjoyment of tllis performance. I'd recommend it to anyone who was thinking about seeing it-it's definitely a memorable and worthwhlle experience. A plastic bag comes t<l life at Mummenschanz • • • By ELIZABETH BERLINER -\nd il .Touching \Mirt1cle Worker\ Proctor's present~d ·an outstanding performaJlce of · William Gibson's The Miracle Worker by the Alley 'Theatre .from Houston, Te:xas last Friday. The play .is the story of Annie Sullivan, commonly recognized for her miraculous work in bringing the art of com- munication to the blind and deaf-mute Helen Keller. Annie herself was blind as a child; and her childhood experience of\ being institutionalized lidded an irrepressible streak of deter- mination and strengtll to her character. She witnessed the death of her crippled brother, Jimmy, in that unsani~ry hell, and the nightmares still haunt her even throughout the scenes of her involvement with Helen. A majority of the. play takes place on the l{eller homestead in Tuscumbia., Alabama. As the Keller's last attempt to avoid institutionalizing Helen, they take the advice of a physician and hire Annie to make an attempt to at least civilize her uncontrollable behaVior. ' . But the unforgettable perfor01ances of Catherine Fleming and Robin_ Moseley as Helen and Annie ••• bring the true spirit to this dramatic production. From the moment of her arrival, it is obvious that An- nie's impetuous independence is going to bring quite a change to the Keller home. Annie qllickly learns of Helen's clever / ways when oae hour after her arrival, Helen precedes to lock her in her roDm and make off with the · key. From that moment, Annie realizes the extreme intelligence locked away in Helen\'s silent mind. All of the performers did an outstanding job in their potrayl of this family in upheaval. The Captain and Mrs. Keller were played by James Prichett and. Carla Spindt, who truly cap- tured the desperation of fearful but loving parents striving to do the best for their child. Marko Maglich played the part . of Jimmy Keller, Helen's older brother who can't help but resent the attenti()n that she has drained from llis parents all of his life. A small comical diversion is f~and in the \all- knn1wir11:!' ' character of Aunt Ev, 1\/1~1;(\,...1.,. Carroll. But the unforgettable per· formance of Catherine ·Flemlng and Robin Moseley as Rele11 and Annie, respectively, are what bring that true spiirit t~ this dramatic prod11ctioll . Visible sparks seem to emanate from their enduring C€lrufliets, but ironically it is · ()JTI:Y to~ obvious that Helen's fierce stubborness is the same fire that exists in Annie that give:s her tbe strength to relentles:sl::y battre to reach Helen. · This conflict climaxes in ;:~ powerful scene at the breakfast table which Annie forces the Keller family to leave a11d then spends hours physically bat- tling to teach Helen some form of etiquette. It ends witlll!elen having folded her napkin and using a fork. The 'talents Df these two ac- tresses is simply amazing. Tile realism they brought to the stage also brought to life the true personalit~es of Annie Sullivan ami Belen Keller. Overall, the Jlerforrnance was a fantastic presentation of this miraculous event, and in the final scene when Helen realizes the connection between the finger symbCliS' and objects, an emotional alll'a co.uld: be felt throughout the fheatre. An interesting addition to tbe production was the placement of translaters for the hearing impaired in the right corner of the theatre; Tlrls too added a touch of rea·Jity to the prefor- mance and enhanced the overall atmosphere of Pr<JCt{)r's for this speciail. performance. Schenectady Native to Give Dance Performance ' 1 NO,N0.1T' Sa BEFOREQ EXCEPT AFTER~,, 'UlE WRITIRG CENTER By ELIZABETH BERLINER. Dyane Harvey-Salaam, a former member of the Schenectady Civic Ballet, will be performing a multi-c:u1tUl\'a1 dance movement here all Unicm on Friday, March 11 at 8 p.m. With her will be severaL of h.eF students from the Hamilton H:ill Arts Center. Her resideiLcy ~so includes the Steinmet2 Mid(Jle School and the Martill Lutb.er King Elementary E;chocl. Harvey-salaam left tlle Schenectady area at tile yoUilg age of 19 to study with tlle modern dancer a~d choreographer Paul Sanasard(). She became a lead dan<!er in the Union College Student Activities Presents NeU Simon's CHAPTER 1WO 'I'iCkets on Sale at Wf<ilrmatloaBooth, Colleae Center $3.00 Elio Potnare Troupe and has worked with such renowned dancers andl choreographers as Chuck Davis and George Faison. She has appeared in \The Wiz'\ and \Spell 117, Timbuctoo,'' as well as on film, and has ser!\Ed on the New York State Councilfor the Arts. The concert is sponsored by the Black and Latin Alliance of Union College along with the New York State Foundation for the Arts, Artists in Residence Program. Tickets are $4 for adults, $3 for students and senior citizens, and $2 for children. They are avaiable in the Information Booth in the College Center oratthe doDr. SUPER DANCE Friday March 4 9:00 pm-1 :00 am Old~ Chapel Dining Hall -WM a CD, TV or VCR Contact Student Activities at x6618 ~~ .....

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 SCHOLARSHIPS & INTERNSHIPS The State University of New York at Albany offers graduate students the opportunity to apply for the Center for Women in Government's Fellowships en wo·men and public policy. F'ellowships are available to graduate students ef all colleges and universities in New York State for the period January- July, 1989. Applicants should have completed 12 graduate credits and have demonstrated an interest in improving the status of women through their research, paid employment, or volunteer activities. The fellowship carries a $9,250 stipend and 12 graduate credits from the Graduate School of Public Affairs of Rockefeller College, ·the University at Albany. Application deadline is May 27, 1988. For more in- formation and applicati9ns contact: Maud Easter, Center for Women in Government, SUNYA, Draper Hall, Room 302, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY 12222. &18-442-3900. CLASSIFIED Female looking for off- campus housing spring term. Please call 370-6972 or drop a note to Box 1092. Office location 670 Franklin St. Hrs. • open - Salary $4-hr. Please contact Lis 377-2241 ( ·S·\'n o. -~m .c>u-u.u..,,. Typing done for students or professors. Please contact !Jorris at 899-9273. Student needed to babysit 2 chlldren age 1 and 4 1 Mon. & 'Th11rs. morning 8to 12. Close to college. $3.50 per hour. Contact Joanne at 372-8314. Housesitter wanted. J,ob includes child sitting for 10 and 14 year old boys. April2 thur 9. Boys will be at school during normal classtime hours. Graduate student preferred. Will consider mature un- dergraduate · student. $35.00 a day. Contact: Mary Ann Teed at 393-8149. For Sale ..,.. Trumpet - Benge; Silver plated, excellent, new condition. 2 mouth pieces, 3 mutes. Call355-9747. Good buy. The Samaritans, Capital District's only Suicide Crisis Line, has a need for volunteers. The Samaritans use carefully . selected, trained and super- vised volunteers to handle more than fifty calls per day .. No previous experience is needed, nor special education required. Callers are people who are lonely, confused, ,depressed, · and who may be actively or potentially suicidal. A shortage of volunteers is still forcing The Samaritans to occasionally use a taped messagt} stating there is no one there to help. You can make the difference. Call to volunteer at 463-2323. THE DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT r is now accepting Participate in Dukakis f~r President Campaign. Call.CbriS . Apostle at 785-5673 or 449-8292. applications for part-time employments Professional Typing Service: quick and efficient, IBM memory typewriter, complete resume service. 399-4656. Student off-campus job. Looking for students ASAP until March 25 recruiting by phone for April Cancer Crusade. WeLto fM &>ck F «o f{l BARef.\PlS. '{o~ Two WO\ftlA)~ 'T ·Be \Mfb(fuN6 ~~Y1HIN5 -rn~r o~ VNClB SI\N\ u~'T W~Nf 1o ~ seetf\1& ON 1f-te sr((e€1S, uk. WQll\Xl iaJ~r-'1 . ~ r& , All shifts availabl,e. Apply in person Dutch Hollow Restaurant 9-5 ~c:ru~~-·. You r wo {[K)r ~IKe Te~r eat ~ KtffY 1\{fts.'' wHY DoN' r r fAKQ A Q~!Cf\ pe~r lf'l 1H~f Bi\C~fNJ, SO/VN'( Schaffer Li•brary is now soliciting recommendations relative to the Reappointment Review for Instructor Maribeth K r up c z ak , Colle c t ion Development Librarian. All interested student IS, faculty, and staff re encouraged to contact Ann Seemann, Librarian at 6277. 'E.VE\'1 B~T1\£~ ..•. 13ECIME Tltt. Cf\>uALAt..co\loL DR\1-l~\ERSu?l'o~\S \f\l€ ALc:o\-loL tNWST!\)'Jo Tt\E. ~ A~E '1'\~>f\ALL~ B~SfotJS11lLE Fo~ 1lWJRI)E.RS' CflVSE.D 6~ I>\H>Nk D«I'IE.~S rH£)' ARE. ACComPLICES -fo \nUR\>£R !1\\ I RESTORE THE NOlT Show Your SupporU -$ign our petition -Join our group _,MORE TO COME- ~'WAI{ A MltliJI'€, ... B!OCI'ill!iE -r»E CASUfll Cl r;A'REHE smoKf.l\ S.Vf\'omS' THE. ToSACLO ll'lllUS'rR'f, TilEY ARE M()I\ALl'l ~ES'I'orl~\BLf. FoH l'E~tfltNFIL L\J~.G UhlCii~ C.A\JS£1) 8'1 SmoKING, Ttlf:'J ARE'ACcom?UCESio MLlR'PEfS H\ - I '~Oit Nt>.\ J'f Tit£ CA:>IJfiL t'ltu-rt1RVAIP svPPL\cR Gtvfs AR1'11S' -'roT\\,:0 CctJ\TAA REWFlS' WHO nie-t>J tJ5£, TltJ;:\'1\ ~· rtl Krt:L ll'IJ\lOCf:NTCIVILMNS_ J.S THE \.1&-:'_PqNS S\UPPLJ£~ f\'IOAALL'J R!;5fotJS\Bt.f:.. FoR THE5E:1'EIITI\S_, f.lt-1\:>T\\\)S AJ<I AccomPLICE -ro\()vRllER?'I ' 1 t-Jo, r GuESS 1: WllS G£f;f1r-IG c;ARl\l~'P,IIWAY otJ \ll r\1 o \'< E • I · ~ ~~~ SDN\e fRtfr{ D~Ntefru<; lOO~lNS SHoRro, soNNY

CONCQKDIENSIS, Msrch 3, 1988 Page 17 .. PERSONALS Glenn: You OWE US $1. V&L Larissa .. Did you reallythink you could lie to me? ... and get away with it? -Mom Erika- Have fllll in Vienna! -JP Christine (Chica)- Did I ever tell you that your smile makes my day? I'm psyched to have you as a neigh- bor agaill ne,U term.! -Your friend in EBF - Helen- Hang in there ... you have a lot to look f()rward to! -Your secretary MVP- Froliche Geburstag! -Yudi To the resident of DG 207 who sleeps on the L.H. side of the squeaky loft: HAPPY BIR- THDAY! Kris T. & Amy H: Gar.p.batte, ne! I hope you'll love Japan as much as I did! Lizard, You've got great bubbles & now you have your first per- sonal. To my dearest Jenny Vachon: What . you've lost, I have found! ! Wash and dry with caution! Big brother is wat- ching you! With love, The Phantom of FoxSoutb Laundry! ' > Alberto, congratulations on being accepted at Harvard Medical School. Y()U couldn't have done better! Con affetto, . Tutti Noi Mandy- Viel spass in Wienmit Agi. I'll miss ya kiddo! Jill- Happy Graduation to you and Dunkin. To think it's been4 yrs. since that 1st phone call to your parents! I'm gonn~· miss ya. I really am. -MAD Dave, Ted, D.J., Greg H., Greg P .-Thanks for the helmets. Fiji -thanks for the sticks. Jetsons- See you next year! - 'llbe Hackers · - . Come on .Ann! We· g()t balls! Now it is Your turn. Miss and Beck -~ - Beth and Danah-Je.ans and sweatshirts, HoW' Noveaux: Riche! Howie and the pled~es., 1 term to go. No problem! -Millster Twerp-See you at the 1989 Olympics. Maybe Ford, President of US, wlll be there w-atching too. - The guywbo was Mr. Politics, talking; not dealing • Here's the term riln down: L.T.: . I really think you ar-e God! Mary Beth is cheating on the freckled milksop with Fonzi. H()w does your garden grow? How's that for crude, rude, lewd, and obnoxious? Are there gardens in IOWA? CLP You are a senior, and I love you. Pa,· The grain crop must have 4feyouGettingtho~epersonals been good this year.. Farmer or not? · Brown brings his booze to work in a thermos. Alex:, WHJ~ mer<er MBC . You are Mr. Politics. coua? Marn, Beck, Gretch, Kristen, Missa, Beth, & Julie Thanks for a great term. We have one more weekend • let's milke it good. Gretch & Marn Drink for Frink?!? Banann Scoop, Congratulations! You did a great job. Enjoy your Becks. Love, BM. To·all-thesis people--'-(}oodluck - · tl}e light is at the end of the tlinnel. Let's hope the VAX doesn't go down. Welcome SPRING TERM!.! ! - It's snowing in my room. Good! Let's do it again soon. Love, J&T- Scary- Hang in there, only 15 days until fun in the sun with the Sri- Man! -,Banger Mt- Gotta love that weekend adventure! Maybe this· weekend we'll find a Star Wars action . figure in our travels -:_-Banger Butt-head- Try buffooning me again and DIE! Fraternally, Spooge Aldo.Jizz-Bones~ Thanks for the present and for everything Curt & D.J. Thanks · for the party and the beer - Spooge Pledges-Thanks for the cake. Maybe there is hope for you. -8pooge Zebes- 'J.'banks for making this one worth 4 years of waiting. You guys are the best. Fraternally, Spooge The luscious one-We will rage on Fdday! James; the Gideon! Luv, the Maihnan Javad'\\:\I want to run my fingers through your curly hair! You are. the man! -:-L.R. rrNe WITH Me. \ AC771At.t.'v_ MI1PAM I ImQtJimTH€ Pr<06!?£~6fV£ YOfl rat. (}5111€ WRY? ~1/l?t. 60 We6T f'fliT me f(J!?N!lte ... . ()NWOM~N9 tS51/65. WO'f<t lOOKIIYfl f'()f? $16V~'5 CttJ5£T. /(~~ > - ' \ Wf(N Rf6Hl: 1Jff5N II ££f'T- .. IIN01H~R t£rT.~. P!I5T1H6 5NrJKI<t.eW!ICKEF< ~ me-N l?!6Hr 10 eni-r~ 60r IT? / NO. Participate in Dukakis for President campaign. Call Chris Apostle 785-5673; 449-8292. RESTORE THE NOTT! . 2% weeks Lina & you'll never see me or my clothes again! Dave _ Melissa, one more accident arid we're going to put you in a body cast until Florida! Love, Dave Hilary, you've got 2¥2 weeks to fix Melissa & keep her out of the hospital. Love, Dave Matt, great tucknin! What rhymes w-tuck•in? That was great, too (when it was). Roses are red, violets are blue Real women play rugby And if you're a real woman we want you! Learn to play women's rugby -Meeting, Wednesday, · · March 30 -8:00 p.m., Fox Lounge Gang of seven-Let's get wild in Florida ! Vans, tans ... ? TEB-Now that these long weekends are over can you wine me and dine me? Your number one fan Ron- Will it be H. V. or no one! ! -HL Bruce-How much is this thing finally going to cost? -HL Brucie-Marry me in a couple of years? I promise I'll learn to cook! Love, Joy John-Monday will be 1 month! Dinner? Thanks for being a great friend. Love always, your next-door neighbor Hir-Psyched? I am! I can't wait! -LM Una- You must really be sick- no personals for 2 whole weeks! -Your favorite roomie Will you fools never learn? Congrats to this week's idiots: Heidi Groener & Mike Walton Bethy- On~ more week anci we've survived winter term! Good luck finishing your thesis,. as I start mine. Love, Dave Matt :Morgan-Do you have any mousse? We were just remembering the good old times! -gaess who? Larry W- Thanks for going for a ride with me, buddy! BI\uce and the boys were worth meeting. Thanks so much! - Kim Les and Lin-get psyched! You'll be up to your ears in luxury while I'm getting :los1 w- Drewan! Love, Joy Drewrut ( Jw-an) : Friday night can't wait for! Love I you! (remember to get good ·directi&ns!) Y-JO Chris, -Alex called. Get back to him by 8:30. You're a great friend and an amazing room- mate! Bowie-Enjoy the Iimo and champagne- I'm not jealous .. I get Drewan! D, J, C: Next time we'll have Lipton for you. Andy M & Lin a: Looking very forward to tomorrow -HL Leslie- Looking very f()rward to tomorrow. We will have a blast like old times --HL Hey Hackers, We'll get them next year! Missa.~ Two weeks until we meet Mickey & Donald! NYHUS-You know what .tfley think in Greece when you wear black stockings, don't you? Just some ltelpful advice. Come back soon. T & S IAN, Persuasion is the name of the game, I think the Public R.R. is calling our names ... Guess who? f7Nt w1~-? 5fiY AREN'T YO(! .M. 13/NKt£'1. 5. a1UIIS? )/- ===--= \ - . ~ ,., ... ~ . -~ . .. ... \ . ~ . ~ - ... .. . ......... ,. .,. ' -···-~ .. - ........ ·--~·-·

' ' Page 18 *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1_ Tanning. Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men ' I ' I I T . . II I I l. ,. anmng 1 • • . • 1 _1 Special \ ! Tanm_ng 1 Tanm~g 1 ! S~ulptur?d ; 1st.- Visit Free. 1 Spectal _I Spectal . 1 J Natls &.\Ttps 1 ~~T~~~ 1 150 Visits 1 100 Visits · 1 $24.95 i $6 95 • 11· $49.95 .11 ,$75:_00_ I\ rE;lg. 35;oo i • · 1 w1th Un1on I. D. I - - . I , . a · , I Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING COOKIES, COOKIES, C.OOKIES GIRL SCOUT COOKIES WILL BE ON SALE IN THE ATRIUM COLLEGE CENTER MARCH 7TH-11TH AT NOON YUM, TUM, YUM THE CLASS OF '89 IS SPONSORING A Semi-!forma{ at the Ramada Inn March 4th 9,.1 Refreshments D.J. Cash Bar Bring I.D. Juniors Pick up Free Tickets in the College Atrium Geb. 29- March 4th lunch hrs. · Cost for your date is $1. You must have a ticket to go. Come alone or bring a.date. Any question. contact your class officers: Kristin Nelson Mike Van Horn Joe Vovitcky 370-4630 CONC()RDIENSIS, March 3, 1988 DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT------ ee A -Part Of The Olympic Splr_it THE GREAT UN.ION CO·LLE·GE FOOSEBALL TOURNAME·NT IS BAC:K! CHOOSE YOUR Tt::AM OF 2 PEOPLE & SlGN UP WITH CASHIER AT SKELLAR OR COLLEGE CENTER. NUMBER OF TEAMS W·ILL DETERMINE PLAYOFF DATE. ~------~------~--·------------------~-----------~ ... • .. ·'- TEAM ORGANIZATION NAME· __ NA.ME1 • --------------- 2.--------~--------~----~----- PHONE NUMBER: CONTACT PERSON: ________ .........., $2.00 DONATION PER PERSON CHARilY CHOICE:__.. ____ ........ ____________ _ STUDENT 10 NUMBERS:. ______ ClASS YEAR:------ We'd rather tie you up for a couple of hours than see you tie yourseU down to a bad ·career decision. That's why we're hoi(! ing our Jordan Marsh Presentation- and why you owe it to you rs~lf to stop by and find out more about New England's dominant department store. Come get the inside story on our Executive Training Program, considered one of the finest in the country, and ()n how to become a successful executive in today's fast-paced, co-mpetitive retail industry. So whether you're a senior looking to start your career on the right track, or an underclassman tracking down a full-time, paid internship, do yourself a favor and chec:k out the Jordan Marsh presentation. It's one evening you're bound to remember.

.. CON COii.DlENSIS, 1988 Page 19 'O!nncQrb.ttnsis· ·_SPORT'S The Lady ·rracksters H~st' N .• Y.,S. Meet ·woodw11ril lll'e11ks Shot~put Rec•d Speaking of Sports • • • By SJIERRICMtGILE ~ndJENLEE Last w~ekend, the Union Women's Tract team hosted the 5th annual New York Staie Women's Track & Fie-Jd Championships. · After . nime weeks of intense training, t!le lady tracksters byubed. Hllw did, they byube, you ask? Tlley byubed se> well that . tlley finished seventh in the state, tile :highest mark ever achieved •bY Union. The highlight of the two day competition was . Stepha!lie Woodard's record breakilng heave of 36'10\ in the ~hot put. This thre>W won 'her the silv.er medal as she attained tile highest individual place ever in State meet competiti'on. In a competitve 200m dash,. N~g ParsQns, Denise McMillan, a11d Terri .Thomas held their ow11 ;as they finished strongly,· w~th Thomas qualifying for the .fi11als ~bile br;eaking the schiJ()l record witm at.tilne of 27 .7 .. ': Displaying their strong willed &ature, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle and Lynet1;e. Neilsen braved .tbe stiff competition by rui1niitg ·' fast personal times in the 4tJI)m dash, and 300m runs respec- tively. . Among some of the ttOp . distance runners in the state, 'Eileen Brady ran to a seas~~s best,. and qualified for this weekends ECAC meet in t)le '1500m run with a time of 5:02: In J a close race, Jen Lee fought her way tQ a 5th place medal in the 800mrun~tha time of2122. In the Pentatbon competition, Lorie Anderson scored an in- credible 23!lli pQints to crush the school record and raise her to a 5th place med~l. In four of the five events: {high j1Ullp, shot put, ·hurdles, long jump) An• dersoli · achieved personal r.ecordS to keep her. in the running. Then in the final event, (800m run) she crossed the line with an impres$ive time of 2:34 to clinch her 5th place finish. Finishing off the day were two exciting .performances by Unions relay teams. The ulile relay with a team . of Meg Parsons, Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, Terri Thomas, and Jen Lee, surprised · the larger, more experienced teams by winning their heat, and placing third overall with a record breaking time of 4:16. The two mile relay consisting of Sherri Cargile, Eileen Brady, J en Regan, and 'Maria Leon~rd, ran a strong race, with Albany bearly nudging them out at the end. They c~me in seventh qverall and broke '1he school record whi~h ~stood for two years previous to this meet,. with a time of 10:32. Those w-omen who have .qualified ·for this weekends ECAC meet will head to Bates College in M.aine for the two day competition. ·-_- Lady Dutchmen Hold ·at' 9-9 ByS.I.D. The Union College womer~'s basketball team finished its season with an 9\9 reco;rd marking the first time that tile Lady Dutclunen have had a .non-losing season since tbe 10-7 mark of 1983--84 campaign. It is · only \the fourth non-losi11g campaign since the prograJm was .started in 1975. Senior tri..Captain Colle;en Dundon edged sophornOlre teammate Gina Prokosch for the team's scoring title. Dllll- don, who captured last yeal'!s crown with a 10.8 average, averaged 11.7 points thisseas.on whiie Prokosch averaged 11.4. Freshman forward Katie Kaufman took third with Iter 10.0 average while seni()r center, and tri-captain, Mic1Jele Van Patten had her best season with an 8.9 average. She was the team's second-lea rug .rebounder with 129. Dundon, a four-year statter · and a two-year tri.:Captun, , finishes her fine career witb818 ::points, good for third plac~ ()n the Lady Dutchmen's all·tn:ne ; scoring list. She was also t~s year's leading rebounder mth 139. Van Patten, a role playerber first three seasons, took EuU advantage of her starting status. She finished with tile squad's· · highest field ge>al percentage at 49.3. Her career ended on a positive note as .she was selected to the All- Tournament Team as Union fhlil!hed fifth in the CApital District T<lurnament. Van Patten . scored 34 poi:n~ and pulled down 19 rebounds in the two games. ,. Prokosch and Kaufman had solid years and will be the cornerstones in which third- year head coach Bonnie Gehling will .continue to build. Prokoscb, who did not play last year as a freshman, was among Union's . top two scorers six times. She hit the 20.point plateau three times. Twic.e she had 27 ·points. Kaufman;. who did not .play in tlle first four games of tbe campaign, was among the team's tqp two scorers seven times. Slte was also among Union's top two reboundersnine ti.nles. Jui1ior tri-captain Julie Gallo turned in a solid season as the Lady Dutchmen's pe>int guard. Gallo contributed a 6.4 average and 39 assists to the offense, while playing consistantly on defense~ Sophomore Gwen Stevens who missed games with the flu, also turned in a 6.4 average with 52 assists. Sophomore guard Wendy Vincent missed 11 games with a broken bone in her finger. Last year's scoring leader among the freslunan, will be :looking forward to a healthy season in 1988-89. l)y CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. TilLe National Basketball Assodaion (NBA) is in a sad state: Df affairs these days, for a variety of reasons. Drug ad .. dic~iCJn, poor play, ancl bad management. (amongst other thin~s) have kept fans away in . nllt.neroU$ cities; putting both those franchises and the league on skids. Now with the .. out::rageous notion of expansion . addeJCi~ it is 'high time for the NB..A to reorganize and develop a mr()odivision format. fhis very European solution · cou]!l save the league. It would call :f!Jr an \A\ division con- . sistil1g: of the top tweleve teams · based on prior finish and a \B\ . :division which would include the r·emaining thirteen teams. Eacil season, :the top two and bottOtm two teams would be pt().JlDO!ted . and · demoted, resJleetiveiy; and during the ·sea:son the two brackets would 'not J)lay each other. As far as · pla~offs go, each division would haV\e tlteir own with possibly a large futerleague to~ament at .some point during the season. Ties in finish could be settled by mini-playoff series, and the schedule, already too big, could be shortened, to say forty games. · This idea (which is hypothetical, of co~se) would do great service to both the league and the fans. rn the NBA today, there exists a great imbalance between elubs. Some cl11bs have all-the talent, money, and management, while others have 'few or none of these neccessitites. This fact is most evident when considering that the NBA championship has resided in either Boston or Los Aligeles for the past six cam- paigns. Aside from the top si:x or eight clubs, no one else can get into the elite inner circle. Weaker franchises llave to give up all their talent to stay alive · fi11ancially (or vice versa) or waste everything they have due to poor front office decisions. · For the fans, th.e solution would be a sign of relief. The games would be closer, more exciting, and realistic. ',rhe equality of competition would help attendance, spur interest irt the sport, and leave the door open for a more widely ap- propriate expansion. The au.dience could also benefit by being able to see the team improve successfully, instead of being victims to the current gods of the hoop. In fact, both diVisions would proS])er, as in the upper league tile games would take on a similar flavor. As far as other entities such as the draft, the All..Star Game, and scoring leaders go, the current format is fine, and by doing this the league could remain unified. For now though, there is no fun at all in \the rivalry\ of an action packed L.A. Laker - L.A. Clipper game. Our hoP.es are that some day this will be, but it will only happen if the league can mature and make it better for all to enjoy. Despite Small Squad, Men's Track Holds Weight at R.P.I. \Vlliil~ the women's track team was ho~ting their state mee-t, the men's team was com.pleting preparations for its state meet this weekend at C()olgate. On Saturday, the Dlltclunen traveled to Troy to · • · coln.pete in tlie RPI invitational. Despite having less than a com.]>lete team in attendance, Ullioa placed fifth out of the 11 tea(f)S present at the meet. Led by tlte wins from seruor Jim L~l'ou and the 1600 relay team, . U11ioa scored 51 lh points, well belli:nd track power Ithaca College's 146, but ahead of arch~ riV\allAlbanyState's 391h. ·Neither of Union's two vic~ tol'\ies came easily. Although Le BrCJu won the 1000 meters by follr seconds, he had to over- . corn.e a collision with a Hart- wickC~llege runner early in the race. LeBron's time of 2:39.7, his fastest of the season, cer- tainly_ would have been quicke~: without loss of momentum from the accident. The 1600 meter relay team of Steve Hayes, Will Allen, Zack Gobel' and Jef{ Barker perhaps- fia(f lt even more difficult. Runliing in the unseeded heat of the event, Ullion had a commanding lead after Hayes' lead off 52.8 second split. Despite being un- challenged in the race, the relay tumed a 3:35.9 timing that was too fast for the seeded teams to match. Along with those two wins, Union· was aided by ''season's bests\ from several athletes. Zack Gobel added fifth place to his. Victory il1 the mile relay, turning in a 2:02.4 time, wllich shaved 2 seconds off his top performance to date. Senior . 1\987-88 Union College Hockey Statistic~ . !?layer GP GLS 1\STS ~PM ·p·p 'SH GW' 'ferry Campoell 26 1 2 2 1 33 32 4 1 0 G·ary remush 26 1 2 21 33 1 6 4 1 2 Scott Cyr 24 l 5 13 28 32 1 2 3 Guy logan 26 18 8 26 36 3 0 4 Nelson Said 24 1 3 11 24 22 5 2 0 Ell ll Sedergren \ 26 3 18 21 66 0 0 0 Scott Manley 26 6 13 19 36 5 0 1 Mark Goguen 26 8 9 1 7 24 4 0 2 B i 11 Snow 25 4 7 11 59 2 0 0 John Mcintosh 26 5 4 9 22 2 0 . 0 ,!Jeter Cotier 21 1 5 6 30 '1 0 0 EJ an Gould 25 1 5 6. 1 6 0 0 0 BT ian Lucey 26 0 4 4 32 0 0 0 rHck S.aratoff 2·3 1 3 4 1 6 0 0 0 alarre11 Gustafson 18 2 2 4 8 0 0 0 De11ni s Baldwin 22 4 0 4 4 0 0 l Chris l:lunt i ngton 14 0 4 4 1 0 0 0 0 Phil MacLaughlin 9 3 1 4 . 4 n 0 0 'Mark Spease 1· 5 0 2 2 10 o· 0 0 Io<l:d Rut.l edg.e 7 0 l 1 6 0 0 0 Ron Kinghorn 18 0 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 ierry Rathwell 11 0 1 l 2 0 0 0 P.eter Rega.n 1 0 0 0. 0 0 0 0 O·arren Stephens • 7 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 lorn Koester 10 0 0 0 4 B 0 0 lrlalt Keller 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 . 0 Bench 26 0 0 0 6 c 0 0 Steve Szydlik clipped four seconds from his fastest time in the 1500 meter run, taking third place with a 4:11.4. Freslunan pole vaulters Guy Burman and Tom Lombardoni took fourth and fifth inthat event as they cleared 1:3 feet and 12 feet 6 inches respectively. Steve Hayes took a cJose second in the 500 meter dash to go along with his relay victory, as he ran a 1: 10.2 in his first attempt at that distance this season. Will Allen contributed a fourth in the 400 meter dash, covering that distance in 54.9 sec()nds. Fifth places from Mike Trtlmante in the Triple Jump (12.23 meters) and Mike Martinez in the 500 meter dash (72.2 seconds), along with Bill Craig's sixth place in the long jump, closed out Union's scoring . 26 Game Totals - FINALS GT GP GLS AST ns PM 0 22 1 2 20 32' 28 0 22 1 l l 7 2& 16 1 22 l 4 13 27 30 0 22 l 5 8 23 22 1 21 9 ll 20 22 0 22 3 1 7 20 64 0 22 5 10 l 5 32 0 22 8 8 1·5 18 0 2 1 4 5 g 53 0 22 5 3 B 20 0 1 6 1 4 E> 22 0 2 l 1 !) 6 1 4 0 22 0 2 2 31) 0 19 0 2 2 1 2 0 14. 1 1 2 4 0 19 4 0 4 4 0 14 0 4 4 1 0 0 9 3 1 4 4 0 14· 0 1 l 6 0 4 0 1 1 6 0 16 0 1 l 0 0 8 0 1 1 2 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 0 0 2 0 7 0 0 u ? 0 0 0 0 0 lJ 0 22 0 0 0 6 UNfOJii~TOTAH------2'6-,1 oil--.-154--F6T5o9_31_6_13 ___ 2_22~95-T36-231-- 43 f WHAT YOUWAt41T? Baby We Gotltl SWlMMIN·G INSTRUCTORS WANT·ED s .. MUGS, · • T'S • SWEATS • HATS • JACKETS • PIN • BUTTONS • SEW-ON LETTERIN ORDER BEFORE. WEDNESDAY, MARCH 9 AND RECE ITEMSBEPORE SPRING BREAK, MARCH 18 --GALL MARK TRUDEAU AT 386-4322 --+F NOT AVAILABLE, CALL 462~3838 A\MERICAN · ·~·Sportswear Art G IVE YOUR . FOR: SATURDAY MORNING SWIM LESSONS FOR CHILDREN Program To Run 6 Saturdays Be-ginning April16 lf interested send a letter of application to Susan Bassett, Aquatic Director Alumni Gym. These Instructor positions are reserved for qualified Union College stude.nts . .. ....

I. CJ) ;2 lr §· (.) § En 0 '§ Q.. ~ill Sedergren supplies early moments of playoff jubilation m Saturday's loss to R.J.T. March 3, 1988 Cagers Fall One Short of ·Winning Season ••• 90-83 loss to Emory se11ls first losing season since 1978 By MARK VAN BUREN Tile Union College men~s basketball team ended its regalar season this past weekend by placing 3id amongst the 8 teams entered in the Eastern Invitational Tournament at the Catholic University in Washington, D.C. The Dutchmen beat N.Y.U., 103-!)9, lost to Emory College, 9().83, and defeated Connecticut College, 80-73. The game vs. N.Y.U. started out fairly even. After the first 8: 23 of the contest the score was deadlocked at 21-21, with neither team able to gain any sort of advantage. At this point, Union tried to give the .game away. The Dutchmen com- mitted 7 turnovers on theirnext 9 p()ssessions (Union would go on to commit 18 first half tur· novers) to allow N.Y.U. to gain a 33-25 lead. However, Uni()n fought its way back at the 6:17 mark, Bill Peck's three point field goal cut the deficit to 38-37. .foe Romer's lay-up a the 2:23 mark tied the score at 45 and Tom Beck's lay-up 48 seconds later put Union ahead 47-45. Union would take a tw() poil)t lead into the locker room at halftime. Union upped its lead to !l 1ints, 66-57, 5:11 into th, , C()nd half. N.Y. U. then went or~ a 15-4 run to gain a 72-70 advantage at the 9:28 mark. Doug Gregory's lay-up with 9:07 left to play tied the score at 72 and Mark Trudeau's basket at the 8:09 mark gave Union a 76-74 lead. From this point tile Dutchmen opened up and maintained the lead for the rest of the game. Aiding this effort was the fact that Union con· verted 20 of 22 free throws in tile final 4:42. Dylan Kelley's 26 points and 7 rebounds paced Union. Joe Romer added 25 points and 8 rebounds, while Bill Peck chipped in with 19 points and 11 rebounds. T{)rn Beck contributed 17 points and 8 assists to the winning cause. On Saturday, Union was matched against Emory College. Union got off to a fast start opening up ~In 18-8 lead at the 14:38 mark after Tom Beck hit a three point field goal. The Dutchmen held a 31-23 lead after a Joe R.orner jumper 5 minutes later. Union . then scored only 2 points during the next 7 minutes, as Emory grabbed a 42-33 lead. Two Joe Romer . jumpers and a three points field goal by Tom Beck brought Union within 44-40 at the half. The second half for Union began siinilar t() the first half. Tom Beck'S jumper 4:17 into the new period put the Dut- chmen on top 56·52. Union's lead was increased to [) points, 64-58 on Joe Romer's jumper with 12: 02left to play. Seven straight Emory points -put the Eagles ahead 65..S4, l:UB later. One free throw from Dy-lan Kelley at the 7:17 mark gave tbe Dutchmen a 73-72 advantage. Three minutes later the game was tied 79-79 after a Paul Damn free throw. However, in.the last 3:51, Union_ was outscored 11-4 and ·was eliminated from the cham- pionship game, Joe Romer led Union with 211 points. Dylan Kelley had 24 points and Tom Beck added 15 points and 8 assists. In the thlrd\place game, Union was matched against Connecticut . College. The Dutchmen opened up an early 16-10 lead five minutes into the contest. The lead was 10 points, 26-16, after a Bill Peck three point field goal with eight and a half minutes remaining before intermission. The Camels were able to overcome this deficit and with 1:17left in the period, they tied the score at 33-all on a Scott Sawyer basket. The half ended with the two teams tied. The teams remained deadlocked for the first 6:22 of the new half. Mark Trudeau gave the Dutctmen a 44-43lead at this point, which they would not relinquish. Uriion went ahead by 5 points, 61-56, on Dylan Kelley's lay-up with 5:58 showing on the clock. Con- necticut College closed the gap to 61..SO on Fral)k Lombardo's lay-up with 5 :O:l to play. The Dutchmen went (Ina 10.2 run at .this point to move ahead 7l..S2, a the 2:27 mark. From here, they coasted to their 12th victory of the season. Dylan Kelley had 22 points and 10 rebounds for the Dutchmen. Joe Romer (19 pts and 9 rebs), Bill Peck (17 pts and 10 rebs), and Mark Trudeau ( 10 pts) all supported Kelley. TOURNAMENT NOTES ..... Union was represented on the all-tournament team by fresh- man Dylan Kelley, who was second leading vote-getter amongst the players. However, he was not the only Dutchmen to have an outstanding 3-game series. Kelley averaged 24 ppg and 8 rpg. Joe Romer averaged 24 ppg and 7 rpg. Bill Peck and Tom Beck averaged 15 ppg and 13 ppg respectively, with Peck pulling down 9 rpg and Beck dishing out 8 assists per game. DUTCHMEN NOTES . .' ... The Dutchmen finished their regular season with a 12-13 record (12-12 in Div. III). This was their first losing .season in '9 years .. Union was 4-5 at home, 5- 7 on the road and 3-1 on neutral courts .... 20 of Union's 25 games this season were played against teams with better than .500 records .... 18 of the Dutchmen's games were decided by less than 10 points and 11 of these games were decided by less than 5 points .... Dylan Kelley led the team in scoring with a 20.8 ppg average. Joe Romer followed Kelley, averaging 20:2 ppg. Both Kelley and Romer finished the season with over 500 points - 519 and 505 respectively .... Kelley also led the team in rebounding with an 8.2 rpg average. Doug Gregory and Romer followed Kelley with averages of 6.4 rpg and 5.8 rpg respectively .... Tom Beck finished 41 assists shy of Union~s career assist record of 556 .... Romer finished his career 9th on the alHime scoring list with 985 points in 3 years of varsity action .... Senior Kurt Fox, who missed all but two games, finished his career lOth on that same list with 943 points. Support Union Spring Sports! ... accepts administra,tive job at Union Morrison Resigns Coaching· Post By ANDREW MILLER Sport~ Editor As the Skating Dutchmen's season came to anabrupt end in Rochester late on a snowy Saturday night, so toQ did tile coaching career of varsity head coach Charlie Morrison. Morrison resigned his coachirtg position in order to accept an administrative ppst at the college. Morrison will remain at Union as director of Achilles Rink and Memorial Field House. Morrison coached at Union for the past ten season. He compiled an impressive 210 wins during bis career, in- cluding a 1985 ECAC Western Division title. Morrison took over the reins of the Skating Dutchmen in 1!178. He pulled a team out of the depths of mediocrity, and in a matter Qf 6 years transfo~ed them into an ECAC playoff powerhouse. \Charlie has done an out: stan<ling job in .his ten seasons at Union,\ sai:d Dick Sakala, Union's director of Athletics. \I am very pleased that he has · decided to remain atthe College and direct the activities in beth · the rink and field house.\ After a disasterous o-7 '87 season start, Morrison turned arQlllld his team and sent them flyiag into the playoft.:s on the strength of six straight win~ and a tie~. Morrison lead his Dut- chmen to consecutive ECAC and NCAA playoff bids from 1983 to 1985. \Union College has been very good to me,\ said Morrison. urve met a great deal of many outstanding young men over the past 10 years and: I have a lot of wondeiful memories.\ Although Morrison will be away from the coaching sceae he will still be visible at Union, ''I'll miss coaching, but I'm very happy to be staying at Union as. director of the rink and field hou.se. I've spent a lot of. time on the road and away from home the g,ast 18 years. There comes a time to get out of coaching.\ M<1rrison had one of the most effective recruiting programs the school has eve1 seen in any spo1t. The recruiting class of '87 brougbt with it a solid nucleus to last the school for four sue-. cessfll:l years. To Charlie Morrison we thank you for the ten wonderful years of success and dedication. We wish you the best of luck in your new administrative position, and hope that your winning wars find a place in all y<>ur endeavors. a: .r:!i :3 w- ~ :::t: 1Xi ~ 0 :::t: Q.. The Skating Dutchmen's play()ff hopes were dashed in a 5-4 double overtime loss to R.I.T. Goals by Union's · big four, Sedegren, Logan, Cyr, and Temush threw the · game intoovet1irne. Tb.e R.I.T.Tigers took the game at 8:30 into the second overtime oil a loose puck rebound in front of the net. After-an 0-7 start the Dutchmen stormed into the pla:yoffs with a 6-0-1 February. \.

CXVIIj) No.. 18 Outlook for Wr·iting Across the Curriculum By LEE.ANN SCHMIDT · Etlit{,lr·in..Cbief An active concern of the Academic Mfairs. Council (AAC) during fall term was the Writing Across the Curriculum plan. During winter term this proposal was set aside for. the consideration and improvement of the General Education plan. According to Keith Bemis, a student representative on the AAC, it is now their. l'!econd highest priority. · The most recent proposal Cf\ncerning Writing Across the Curriculum, co-written by Professors Harry Marten and Jordan Smith of the English department, was. presented to the AAC in a :meeting on November 25 of this year. This project was a response to the report of the Subcommittee on Writing of May 1, 1986. It recommends adopting a modified version of the Writing Across the Curriculum plan. The goals of this response are similar to those in Bucknell's highly acclaimed writing program. Writing is to be considred as a process that will continue tluoughout education, and not .end with Freslunan Preceptorial (FP 10). Under this program writing will be ·promoted· as a means of com- municating within each of the various disciplines. -There will be frequent writing assign- ments which will be evaluated. Courses throughout the curriculum will be designated as \W courses\ and will involve writing in their curriculum. Although the response b'y Marten and Smith .generally supports the earlier proposal by the Subc<luncil on Writing, there was concern expressed on several points. They were disturbed that the distinction between W-1 and W-3 courses See PLANS, pg. 3 · , Faculty Gel Time· Survey R~~ults .. pg. 3 'Qloont County PI'• 7 · . ... ,, .. ,,., .. B:tJSOBrall .... *SPEC ISSUE* ~ • Dean ofFaculty James Underwood Dean of 'Faculty Reviews Professors' View of Gel Time, ·Current Gen Ed Proposal By DAVID GULLIVER Editor-in-Chief About 60 out of 120 fac11lty members were present ,for the faculty vote on Gel Time, A.pt\il 2, 1986; 58 percent of them voted to implement Gel tUne f()r a two-year trial period. · Dean ·of Faculty JaEes Underwood said that, at th~t time, ''my sense was that the faculty preferred the other (old schedule) system\ and that the faculty believed that \this (Gel Time) would be better for the students.\ Times h$:1ve changed, aiJ- parently. A recent Con- . cordiensis poll showed that the majority of the faculty no1V prefer Gei Time over the old system. The Student Forum Jl()ll at winter term registration, General Education . \ Proposal Reprinted, p. 2 however, showed that students believed that Gel Time has so far, failed in its intentions. Underwood said that one of the intentions of changing to Gel Time was to reduce the \frantic pace\ at Union. However, Ute Forum poll showed tllat students feel that Gel Tftne .has not reduced academic pressure. Students a!so are not 11si11g the extra time to study, ac- cording to the poll, 'whicb in part explains why many feel that pressure is still the same. \You can give them (students in general) the time (to stll{!y), but it may not be used the w~y you want it to be used,'' Un~ derwood said. He said that one student's comment was tllat students were having trolible disciplining themselves under Gel Time and that few stude11ts were settled into the system yet. only the Gel 'l'ime system, were· more likely to approve of the system, while upperclassmen, familiar witb the old system, disliked Gel Time more. Most of the f~culty, according to Underwood and to the sur- vey, see no difference between the two schedilling systems yet. ~·The faculty generally-believe·· that you need\ more time,\ he said. One of tile arguments in last week's Student Forum letter is that after the two year trial period, only one class will remain on campus to judge Gel Time with regards to the old system, and then the college administratioll and faculty will be less likely to move back to what may h~ve been a better system. Underwood agreed in part. \People get ttsed to anything,\ he said, saying that a sort of inertia will set in after two years. Faculty; students and administrators will become accustomed to Gel Time and a move back to another system will . be seen as just an in- convenience. Many stude11ts saw the move to Gel Time as a preliminary step to a semester · system. Underwood discounted that idea, however. When the Committee on Union Education first began to review the idea of a new schedule system, Un- derwood said~ the semester system was briefly considered and then dropped. \A lot of faculty members had serious objections (to going to a semester system). There were See AAC, pg. 2 1877 March 10, 1988 Poll S:hows Most Faculty Favor Gel Time Schedule Large Maj()rity in Humanities, Social Sciences 0 rofessors ~otter Improvements, Alternatives By LORILE()N, Commentarie:5:Editor, and DAVIDGtJLLIVER, LEE ANN SCIIMID'l' Editors·in .. Chief A recent ·Couordiensis random poll of :faculty mem- bers found that& large majority favored the Gel 1'ime system which has now ~en in place for two terms. Support tor Gel Time was overwhelming in tlle Humanities and·;SbcialScienr:es divisions, \'Wllile tlle Engineering ~nd Scien;ce divisions were tile most op- posed. A complete breakdown of results is on page three. Significantly, man.y faculty saw many areas as al>()ut the saooe under either sy,stem. Soooe believed that Ge1 'Time had: !lot been in effect l~ng en()ugh to judge the system~ either. H;owever, mos1 were able to make a choice a11d by now a 28 to 20 margin, fulose polled ap- proved of Gel Time. When tile faculty first voted on Gel Time in April, 1986, 5B percent of about the 60 faeulty membel's voting approved:it. Concordiensis drew 1\ts questions from the origin~! stated goals of Cel Time, the idea of reducing pressure a11d allowing more time to \leam\ material, and fr()In concerns expressed by tbe students a11d from students' r:n()st comm<Jn perceptions of faeulty~ Several faculty members md ideas for adjustiilents to the Goel Time plan, po.ssil>le new systems, the curr~nt debate alld on the initial decision itself. * *One Psych:ol()gy professor didn 1 1 remember participating in t!le original Goel Time vote and now dislikes the system. * *Said one English professor: \I'm af:raid some d the students are using the new schedule to advantage in ways other than academic - in far:t, anti-academic. ihE same goes for some of the fae)tllty.\ * *A Classics ]ll'()fessor said that the focus shOtuld n()t .be on a sys1em that reduces student partying; but on if the system works efficiently: \Ithink it is a fundamental mistake to make any changes in the system for at least another year. We had said we were going to give it 2 years and we should follow through on this. Students will naturally complain because they dislike change even more than faculty. Matters such as whether . students party more or less · uncler Gel Time is irrelevant to the discussion: it, is not the. responsibility of the academic schedule to regulate students' social ~ehavior: that is a Survey Results page3 · - matter for the students the:rriselves and the dean of students.\ * *One professor thinks that Gel Time makes a \big im- provement in both my and the students' prepar~tion. I also think it will become more and more important as a job in- centive here when we hire facmty. Finally, my classes are finally resembling . college classes where the professor and students discuss intelligently the work they have done outside of class.\ * *One professor said that although he was in every d~y, that he did feel that other professors who did not teach on Tues./Thurs. were generally not in on those days. He added that he believes the students are better prepared under Gel Time, but that this could just be a different quality of students and not an effect of Gel Time. * *Classics and Political Science professors from semester schools said that Gel Time posed no problems. * *Several professors said that it would be acceptable to keep Gel Time, except ·for language classes; no one recommended that the language classes be kept as they are under Gel Time. A combination of the old and new systems might be better: for example, language classes could be kept under old system (four days/week) and literature classes to be under the new ( MWF classes). * *A Mechanical Engineering professor felt that he was not teaching as much as usual: each class was too packed, with material being preempted by test and review time. He proposed that tests be given at night, at the discretio~ of the individual professor 1f approved the the College. A MWF class could test on Tue. & Th. He said, \Get me back that test time and let me lecture.\ Underwood said that Gel Time \is not a big students vs. faculty issue.\ One reason f<1r the difference of opinion may be what Underwood said is a \general faculty perception\ that ''students are more resistant to change.'' Of!e • finding of the Forum's survey was that freslunen, who knew Spring Break is days away! * *A Civil Engineering See PROFESSORS, pg. 3

Page 2 CONCORDIENSlS, March 10, 1988 The General ·Education Curriculum Recommendation to the AAC for the CUrriculum in General Education ·from the General Education Board., Feb. 12, 1988 Janet Anderson options in foreign languages StepbenBerk and culture, with doublen Adria.nLFrazier counting permitted for the Alan.Nelson, ex-officio major and for general Michael Rudko education. . James Underwood, ex-officio (a) foreign languages: any James· Sawyer '88 sequence of three courses in a Melissa Stewart '90 classical or modern foreign Antiln Warde, Chair language; students may begin a new language or be placed at the appropriate level in a language of which they have prior knowledge. Students placed at the 12-level or higher earn the waiver of one of the three cow-ses. THE GENERAL EDUCATION CURRICULUM Stu!lents mu..<t complete the Fresllman Preceptorial and twelve additional courses (eight additio11al courses for students of engineering, with the effect of five) or, for students who elect the option in foreign language and ~ultw-e, eleven additional courses (for some ten). All courses may double-cow1t for the major; and, unless other- wise noted, all may double- count where appropriate in the General Education Curriculum. I. Freshman Preceptorial; (b) NonaWestem studies: any rel~ted group of four ·courses in Asian Studies, Latin ' American Studies, or Middle Eastern Studies, one of which inay be History 10. . (c) study . abroad: any Union Term. Abroad with an associated prerequisite (or ' equivalent foreign study). +Engineering students and . student completing the • completely outlined curriculum, i.e.,intheform of a single comprehensive_ ame~d­ ment rather than a list of m- dividual changes. The proposed general education curriculunt outlined below retains. the .structure of the AAC' s plan and includes its group of related courses in history, literatlll'e, and civilization; yet it also reflects (.!ertain emphases that distinguished the CAC's proposal: {1) a refined and . rigorous math-science • requirement, (2) a Western heritage component that stresses the relationship of the· present to the past, ~3) a strong affirmation of the study of foreign language and culture,. (4) an incentive· to study non- Western culture, and (5) a smaller nwnber <if required courses. Our work has been fW'ther ,guided by the desire to create a curriculum for genetl;ll education having the~e characteristics: II. one course in mathematics at tbe level of difficulty presented by Math 20, or higher; Ill. two courses in science or applied science, one of whic~ shall 'have at least occasional laboratories, and the other of whi~h shall either (a) also have at least occasional laboratories, or (b) counttowardthemajor in thegiven discipline, or (c) have a stated mathematics prerequisite; program in Educational Studies with a major in the sciences are exempted from this requirement because of the rigidity and number of requirements in their program. . · Engineering students who wish l. bl'eadth and depth: courses in a wide range of disciplines, but grouped and. sequenced, where appropriate, for coherence; 2. in:tensity: fe-wer courses, but each one a cDurse-without- compromise; IV. one course in social sciences: Anthropology 10, Economics 12; Political Science 10, 11, 12, 13; Psychology 10; Sociology 10,22; and possibly others; V. two courses in history: one of three two-course sequences (1\t!dent I & II, European I & II, or American· I & II); to be completed as· early as possible in each student's curriculum of stacy; VI. two courses in literature (one a survey course) OR on.e co\lrse in literature and one comse in civBization (one a survey course) matching the two-course sequence in history, and completed in as close association with this sequence as the student's schedule pennits; VIT. + EITHER: four additional cowses in Divisions other thall that of the major++ (Divisions In and IV considered as one) fi()t to be double-counted with a11y others in the general education curriculum; not all ciJ!urses shall be taken in the s11111e Division; at least one sllall be a course in literature or civilization; OR: one of the followiug to study a foreign languagl:l or participate in a foreign language Term Abroad may · petition for a waiver of other courses in general education as well. ++Interdepartmental majors between two Divisions may make an arbitrary choice of their \home\ Division. Tpey have the advantage of automatically satisfying the extradivisional requirement. Students who change majors between Divisions will be able to . apply ·the .courses already- taken in expectanon of ·com- pleting their first major toward satisfying the extradivisional requirement. INTRODUCTION When the General Education Board began to meet in early November, 1987, we set out to make changes in the AAC's plan that would result in a curriculum true to the purposes of a liberal arts education and to sentiments :widely shared by members of the Faculty. We were· guided not only by the debate of last spring, but also by the AAC's survey assessing the vote on the proposals. The result, we think is a proposal worthy of wide support. For purposes of clarity we have presented our amendments to the .AAC's plan in the form of a 3. cb.oices: opPQrtunities for students to motivate them- selves; 4. sil:npUcity: a general studies curriculum logical and straight-forward in its struc- ture. The curriculwn we propose retains the Freshman Preceptorial and the requirement of oae course at the introductory level in the Social Sciences. And, like the AAC's· 'Plan; ollr- cw-riculuro waives· . some . l!ourses. for students majoring ln engineering. It differs from the AAC's plan, however, in these respects: A. Change in the number of courses: The Board's curriculum requires thirteen cow-ses (the Preceptorial plus twelve), two fewer than the AAC's proposal of fifteen. Ratillnale: We are sensitive to the curricular \tightness\ felt by students in many majors (including Union's new program in Educational Studies). A thirteen-course· requirement in which most coWJses may do11ble-count both for the major and within the requirement balances liberty with constraint. Furthermore, we think it important that students have room left in their schedules to elect additional courses in an area that may have only a two or three cow-se have that room, even within tlle math-sCience requirement. general education curriculum, C. . Challges in the Western. is in the four-cour.se ex- heri1age group: tradfvlsional reqUirement. The Board's curriculum B. Changes in the math, retains the sequences of hi$1:orY science, and applied science courseswith associated courses requlrement: in literature and civilization; The Board''s curriculum but instead of requiring two replaces the AAC's five courses Uteratu1·e courses and one in math, science, and applied ciVili.2ationcourse, two of which sciences 'with three CO'IJl'Ses, all match the history sequences, of which present the student • our proposal requires two with real math and real science. sequeuce-matching cou.-rses, We do not regard this reduction one of which must be a { l) ~ an overall diminishment in survey.euurse in literature, and importance, since we co11ple our . the other of which may be a. recommendation .with an · coursein (~)either literature or upgrading of the requ,irement. civilizati4Jn. (See attached Furthermore, we anticipate explanation, \Associated that the curriculum will Courses in History, Literature,. eventually contain an array .of and Civilization,\ p. 7.) civUization courses taught in ~Rationale: We all agree that the sciences. our ~t11dents need to ·gain a In mathematics, all studeuts 1 . deeper understanding of their will be required )o take one . own 11eritage. Like the AAC and course at the level of Math 20 or the C.AC, we recommend the . higller. ln science all studeuts · pursuit of this goal through the wlll be required to take tw.o . associated study of history, courses in science· or. applied · litel\'ature and civilization. science in Divisions IU or IV~ Requiring all students to take a One of these courses will have · Civili2:ation course seems ill- at least occasional . advised. in view of the relative l8boratories; ,and the other will paucity of theM in Union's either (a)· also have at least curriculum at this time. ·All . occasional labs, (b) count for· students will be requited, to take the major in the discipline, or a mirlimlllll of one literature (c) have a stated mathematics coursE, if not necessarily two; prerequisite. Elsewhere in the a11d many will find themselves gen~ral education curric\ilwn takinga second and even a third students will alSo · be alboe to . in either the extradivisional learn about science and · reqlii:pernent or the foreign technology by electing language and culture civilization courses that either requirement. treat the history of science and D. Changes in the ex- technology, and may thus be tradi~mic;m.;il requirement: matched to courses in the T11e Board's curriculum history sequence, or treat replaces the AAC's requirement science and technology in with two options: either four today's civilization. additi()nal courses beyond the Rationale: We think .it ap- Divisi()n in which the -student propriate that all graduates of majors (with no double- Union. College have the op- . coUllti.ng ), .not all of which may . p~ortuhity. to ·. ti1?e., _to the b~ t~lt~Q ~ :a. s~gJe Division,. challenge of studying .undiluted and cne of which must be in math and science. And we literat1lre or civilization; or one accordingly believe that Union of t11ree tracks in foreign will make a stronger statement language ·and culture, with about the importance of math double-counting permitted for and science in its general hoth the major and the general education program by requiring edu~ation requirement ana with three courses that \do\ bona other intentives as well. · fide math and science than by . Rationale: The full four- requiring a greater number of· co u:ts.e extradivisional courses that to some degree do req\Jirernent makes clear the· less. Most importantly, desirability of breadth and perhaps, for· the students we intellectual exploration. wish to attract. to Union, we Stucleuts' choices will be limited think the general education only by the range of courses curriculum should have a math.. open to them in the College's science requirement that enti.te <!urriculwn. ·The alter- matches in quality Union's nati.:,-e-to take courses in a reputation for special ex= foreign language,· or to build a cellence in these disciplines of non\\'Nestern studies cluster, or the liberal arts, but one that to st11dy abroad-achieves the matches in quantity the ex- same g.cal by stressing cultural pectations of pr:-ospective rathar than disciplinary di£- students looking at other liberal feren:ce. In part we Chose to arts colleges, most of which see CURRICULUM, pg. 6 AAC To Discuss Faculty Allotn1ents, Course Sequencing, Terms Abroad in Gen. Ed. Continued from page 1 a substantial number of faculty members opposed... it was an issue that had the potential to divide the community,\ Un- derwood said. Out of the faculty members polled this week, only three mentioned that they would prefer a semester system. Many students heard professors comment that they did not complete their entire syllabus during the fall term. Underwood said, however, that. it ,was probably a problem with '~adjustment\ to the new system. \They probably a1so s.aid, 'I'll never let that happen a.gain' afterward,\ Underwood· added. He said that he would be 'csurprised if there's maBy (professors)'' with tbat problem now. The major academic issue on tnis campus, however, is the move to the General Education C1l1Ticulum (see above). Many new faculty will have to be added in order to implement the .new system, but Underwood said that he expects no problemsin that area. \We've alw~ys understood that the College was committed to meeting whatever the needs were; within reason,\ Un- derwood said. He predicted that no more than nine few faculty would be needed for the im~ plementation of the General Education Curriculum. Last year, President Morris suggested that hiring about a dozen new faculty was the . College's objective. Several of the positions have already been filled, but most of them have been temporary positions; and could be juggled at a later date to move positions to where they are most needed. Underwood noted that new positions would probably be most needed in the History and Modem Languages depart· ments, and that the English Deparment might need another American literature profefJSor. 'The General Education Board will make an estimate of how many new positions are needed~ The Academic Affairs Com- mittee will review that estimate and the final estimate will eventually go to the ad- tniJlistration for approval. 'The AAC hopes to complete the process by the end of this year. Tbe idea of linked pairs of history and literature/ civili2ation courses had drawn criticism in Col'l- coriliensis because of the logistics-a freshman locked out of a desired sequence of courses or who mistakenly chose a seq11ence that the person later found unin- teresting migb.t have to take four courses in that area. Scheduling the first course in every sequence in both the fall and winter terms would allow a student to begin a new sequence that same year an(i somewhat alleviate the problem. Un- derwood said that he would take that idea to the AAC. In those sequences, Un- derwood said, the course would emphasize tb.e political and cultural historyy and the push.of society throughout history toward science and technology. H~ added that the books used in the literature courses would be the primary, original works, not secondary or reference texts. · Concordiensis had also questioned the idea of using certain terms abroad as fulfillments for the non-Western studies requirement. Un~ derwood said that the terms abroad in Bath and in Greece were still an \open question\ to be discussed. The big issue now for the AAC, however; is the .science requirement. Underwood said that the GEB's idea was to require \science courses, not courses about science.\ The AAC bas been discussing what sort of courses could be used and the question of how many courses to require. The primary concern of the GEB, Underwood said, was ''keeping the numer of required courses low.'' The proposal does that, with 12 courses · at mDst needed to fulfill the reqwrements. However, he added, that doesn't mean more couldn't be added later in response to unanticipated consequences.'' · One ·Of the biggest problems, be ~aid, was \bow to treat engineers~\ Engineers already ba'Ve strictly regimented scl!edtlles and more required cotu:'ses than any other stu!lents. 'Eventually, Un- derwood said,, Union and engineering schools around the country may have to consider m()ving to five~year plan for engineers, or at least an extra · term, possibly in the summer. Students are welcome to s\lbmit conunents on the General Education proposal ei111er directly to GEB mem- bers or to AAC representatives. 'Tile latest version of the General Education plan (and a list of the GEB members) is reprinted in its entirety above. c •. 4 T s ~ a tc

CONCORDIENSIS~ Ma-rch 10, 1988 Page 3 CONCORDIENSIS GEL TIME FACULTY SURVEY ~ • The departments which ~Yere Polled In the sclen.ce- category Include BJOio9Y s Chemistry 3, and Physiqs 3 · · ' !oM ~ •• The departments which were polled in the engineering category Include E.E. . 4, M.E'. 4, C.E. 2 \ ~ ~ -~ The abbreviation N.A, Indicates the professor did not answer or answered w~h a- ~ ~ special comment (see page one). · s ~ II :-;;; ' Not all professors were available to com!)lete this survey many are on leave \' ~ I and· new-profess~rs couiQ not corrplete the survey as they 'did not have a basis f/rJ ..y, J ~ -~ if s to compare Gel Ttme to the old s_ystem. · ~ q_ J.{. ~ J .{~ QUESTION #1 Do you believe more 2 2 5 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 stude(Jts are, in genera!J, more J~ss 1 1 1 prepared or less prepared for cl~ss ·same 1 1 1 3 1 3 1 5 1 2 2 1 4 under the Gel Time schedule? N.A. 1 . 2 ' QUESTION better 1 2· #2 Is your class 5 2 2 2 2 1 2 1 attendance better or wqrse under worse 1 1 1 1 1 Gel Time? same ? 1 2 1 3 N.A •. 2 I 2 2 8 1 I QUESTION #3 Is the average · better 2 1 1 3 2 1 . student's attention span better or 1 1 worse 1 2 2 1 1 1 2 worse under Gel Time? same • 1 ' 1 4 4 2 .. 1 2 2 6 NA. ' I 1 1 1 1 I QUESTION #4 Are you operating more 2 1 5 .2 4 2 4 1 1 2 3 more or less effiCiently with the less 1 1 3 2 1 1 I' longer class periods? 1 1 1 5 same 1 NA 1 1 ' QUESTION #5 Does the day off helo. 3 2 e . 3 3 1 . 2 4 1 3 between classes·help or-hinder the hinder ''\ 1 2 ? 1 1 1 2 idea of \reinforcement\ of course same 2 1 1 2 - material? N.A. 1 1 2 QUESTION #6 Are students using more. 1 2 1 1 \office hours\ more or less under less 1 3 3 3 1 2 ? 1 Gel Time? . same 5 3 3 2 2 1 ,q 2 4 NA 1 2 QUESTION #7 Was it more or less more 2 . 1 1 1 1 difficult to schedule office hours ,less 2 2 3 4 1 2 1 same 1 4 2 under the Gel Time schedule? 2 .2 1 1 1 1 3 1 7 N.A. QUESTION #8 Overall, which Gel Time 1 2 5 2 5 1 4 1 1 2 3 . scheduling system do you prefer, Old Svstem 1 2 2 2 . 1 1 6 · Gel Time or the old system? no oreferencg 1 .1 1 •. . N.A. 1 ? total profs. ,3 2 1 7 5 2 . 5 5 1 3 10 Professors Propose Alternatives. and Revisions thinks that it is now more dif- ficult to schedule labs since there are more afternoon classes ·competing with labs for those time slots. Continued from page 1 professor felt that engineering requires that things be done in certain dispersed sections and that Gel Time forced CE professors to cover disparate ideas during the same class. * *A Civil Engineering and· a Chenll.stry professor think that student attention span is doser to-50 minutes than an hour and five minutes or more. * *A Classics professor felt that students will tune out the first (or last) 15 minutes of the lecture regardless of how long the class is. * *Another M?th professor thinks that 1 hour 5 minute classes are all right for math courses but the other class periods 50 minutes in the old system were too short and the longer Gel Time periods were too long for both students' at- tention spans and effective teaching. * *A Biology professor * *An Arts professor had the problem that studio courses were all at the same time. * *A Psychology professor thinks that too many classes are scheuled simultaneously because of professors' at- .... ~ !Z ~~ ~ ~ I t$- ~ 1 18 1 5 t3 3 .. 24 3 .. I 2 ~ 4 4 13' 3 ~6 ' 1 2 J ~4 6 !I 16 1 I _M 4 2 29 3 19 4 7 1 4 32 1 11 4 1() 4 _Q 2 13 7 38 3 2 8 2 19 5 29 1 29 5 20 ? 5 1 5 9 tempting to schedulE their classes in the 'prefer11ed' time slots and were unwilling t() use all of class periods. * *One Philosophy professor said that it is all a matter of what oneis used to. . * * A Modern Lang11ages professor wanted to know if Concordiensis could accomplish anything this year fromthis. Space Reconnaissance Foreign Affairs; Harper's Harvard Magazine, New York Magazine, and many others. He . . The Speaker's Forum, American Society of Mechanlcal Engineers, a11d Tau Beta Phi will be Sponsor\ing a lecture .PY William. Bur\row's entitled Spying from Space: Plans for Writing Across the Curriculum Revised What We See and How We See It. The lecture will be heldinthe College Center Auditorium at 7 : 30 p.m. tonight. Burrows is a full professor of Journalism at NYU and is the founder and director of the NYU Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, Science Repor- ting Program. He has reported on aviation space programs for . Tbe New 'fork Times, The Washington Post,. The WaU Street Journal, and The J,\ichmond Times Dispatch. Burrows has also had articles in 'rhe New York Time Magazine, Speakers Fo~um American Society Of Mechanical Engineers 1\nd Tau Beta Pi Present: SPYING FROM SPACE: What We See and How We See It A Lecture By Renowned Author William Burrows TONIGHT 7:30 College Center Auditorium Lecture Will Include Actual Photographs Taken By A Spy .Satellite. · is the author of four books, one of which is a biography of the Red Baron called Richthofen, and another · is called On Reportinl. the News. His last book, published last February by Random House, is: Deep Black: Space Espionage and National Security, which is now in its eleventh printing. This book has received high praise from the intelligence coma munity and is considered the standard work on the subject. The lecture will focus on issues involving space espionag_e. included Will be· several slides of reconnaissance photo~raphs taken .bY a spy satellite. Burrows 1s an out- spoken critic of .Star Wars and says that he would be happy to field any questions concerning the Strateg~c Defense Initiative as well. Currently; Burrows is working. on his ne~t book for Random House, entitled To ·Touch the Stars:. Science, Politics, and the Deep Space Probes. The lecture will be geared to all thOse interested in the · consequences and ad- vantages of spying from space; It promises to be a most in- teresting lecture on a topic that we all should be inform~don. Continued from page1 . was made on the basis of the · quantity of writing in thes~ courses. Another concern in- volved the numerous requirements -of Writing Across the CurricUlum in combination with the General Education proposal. The response suggested that thec.e should be an overlap in the requirements for these programs. The final problem was that under the . pr9posal by the subcommittee, a student could take two W-3 courses and FP 10, to fulfill the units needed to fulfill the · requirement; thus, defeating the purpose of Writing Across the C11I'riculum. The response by Professors Marten and Smith suggested several alternatives that could · so~ve these problems. The focus . of this program should lie in the process of writing, not the quantity of material produced. Writing Across the Curriculum should involve varieties of writing styles, from lab reports to journals. The W-1 and W-2 (originally W -3 courses in the Subcouncil proposal) courses s~ould b~ dist~guished by class stze, which wtll determine the fre9!lency and variety of writing and the level of response and evaluati<..q- given to FOrks. The response en- courages the implementation of the SUbc()uncil's proposal to estab~~sh a Writing· Board, whose responsibility it would be to certify \W courses\ publicize the program, a~d arrange for training for the faculty. To insure that students would receive a comprehensive writing progr:am, the response suggests that the requirements be developed around the number of courses taken rat_her than the number of uni~ earned. It would be required that students take four 'W courses,\ FPlO, and a senior writing experience. One of the four \W courses\ would have to fall into the W-2 category. The implementation of this program would follow a four year process. This plan would involve the education of faculty and a gradual implementation of course requirements. During the first year about 12 members across the faculty would adopt th~ \Yf course\ plan. At this pomt It would not be defined in the course book or be a requirement towards graduation. The faculty would have regular meetings and conferences with instr~ctors involved in comparable writing programs. to monitm the success of the program. In the second year the number of \W courses\ would increase and they would be defined as such in the course catalogue. A partial requirement of the \W courses\ would first come into effect during the third year. By the fourth year the program would be complete. The Response also pointed out the need for incentives to en· courage faculty mem\J.ers to participate in this program. It was suggested that par- ticipation in \W courses\ should be considered favorably in the three year, and tenure evaluations. The recom- mendations of the resp-onse to the Subcouncil on Writing, combined with their Writing Across the Curriculum program provide a s~lid system which has already pr()ven ef- fective other colleges. Within the first few weeks of next term the Writing Across the Curriculum proposals .should appear on the agenda -of the AAC. Keith Bemis repc~rted that he hoped to see a WTiting proposal developed into a policy by the end of this academic year.

Page 4 CONCORDJENSJS 1 March 10, 1988 <HllltfDrbirttsis Founde(/ at Union College 1877 .---------- --~--~---- Get Moving On Academics 'fhis special issue of Concordiensis has been published because we believe that there are three major academic issues that arc unresolved. Neither the students or the faculty have a clca.r perception of some issues, and perhaps the most important issue is still unrecognized by the Union College community. We believe the General Education is the most important iss11e, and the proposal is ready. Assuming that courses required under the General Education Curriculum strictly follow the theme of this system, and are not diluted as Liberal Learning requirements were, we believe that it is a strong proposaL However we have three main concerns. 1. The history and literature sequences demand a very rigid structure that allows no room for error. If a student drops the first course in a sequence, he is effectively locked out of fulfilling four requirements until the first course in the sequence is offered the next year. For this sequence to be feasible, we suggest that the first course in each sequence should be offered during both fall and winter terms. That would pr~vide students wit)l two chances at getting into a desired sequence. To make this centerpiece work, the College must make the co!Ilmitment to back the program with sufficient staff and en()ugh sections to provide students with all the course options. This would insure that students would not be forced into undesired sequences. 2. The non-Western studies section is an important part of the curriculum. Furthermore, the study of modem languages should be emphasized. Under the current proposal terms abroad in Bath and Greece would fulfill the requirement, although no language courses are necessary for the programs. 3. To make certain the students benefit from this curriculum, the College needs to place a greater emphasis on the process of advising incoming freshmen. In order to make intelligent decisions in course selection, freshmen must be informed of the various options and requirements of the system. Advisors should also explain the rationale for the curriculum and the significance that the different requirements have with regard to the modem world. The current advising system at Union, quite simply, is pathetic. Advisors provide little guidance and are generally considered to be a rubber stamp signature that is required for pre-registration. · Another academic issue that Union has not recognized is the importance of writing in its curriculum. As newspaper editors, we are constantly reminded that even students who are seriously interested in writing do not have the skills they need. Each year, Union is graduating hundreds of students who have no idea what a thesis paragraph is, let alone a complete sentence. Education is pointless if students are unable to ce>mmunicate their knowledge. Freshmen Preceptorial 'is currently the only required course that provides any instruction in writing. This is Union's excuse for a writing course. We are painfully aware that Preceptorial is more of a \Great Books\ C()urse than a writing course. To solve this problem proposals such as Writing Across the Curriculum have been considered. Although this process of improvement began well before we entered the College, we are still left with Freshmen Preceptorial as our only writing requirement. The Writing Across the Curriculum has been shelved again as it awaits the final decisions on General Education. We support the proposal with the suggested revisions (see page l) and believe it is time to put it into effect The most visible, but least important issue is Gel Time. It directly affects students, and is therefore their top priority. They are now looking for the faculty opinions. The Concordiensis survey this week ha~ shown that, 'if nothing else, there is a strong difference in opinion between science and engineering and most of the liberal arts departments. It is clear to us that engineering. and perhaps science, need a different scheduling system. In part, this is from Union's hybrid nature as a \liberal arts college with engineering.\ Until the day Union creates a separate Union College School of Engineering and Applied Science, we have to devise a means of accommodating both. - We are not registrars. However, we have several suggestions that might help. Certain classes should be allowed to meet four or five days a week in shorter class periods. This could tie accomplished by starting classes earlier and by having another morning time slot. This system would incorporate some ideas ()f the old system into Gel Time and would help those departments having difficulties with it. To solve the problem with attention spans, breaks in the longer classes should be mandatory and implemented into-the scb.edule for lecture classes; studio arts and science lab would be exempted. These are just ideas. It is obvious that Gel Time works for about two thirds of the departments, but we need to find a way. to accommodate all needs. Revisions should begin now. The faculty must meet, so their ideas can be heard in a forum other than the College 11ewspaper. When was the last faculty meeting? These are valid suggestions, and we see no need to wait another year to begin creating a better system. Some of these ideas have outlived our stay at Union and more. It's time to stop talking and put them into effect LETTERS Faculty Furnishes Further Gel-Time Formula- To the Editor: Michael Hitler's clar-ion call (\Student Foium Deems Gel;. , 'rime Ineffective\) on behalf of the Executive Commitee of ~ .Student Forum in your March . issue surely ·clarified my own • thinking on the matter. Although I do mt agree with his remedy, and I atn sure that student - .opinion is not unanimous on the matter, either, Mr. Hiller has certainly convinced me that drastic measures are necessary here on campus. Were I· given the resources, I would probably begin by im];)lementing the following corr-ective program: 1. Since (as Mr. Hiller tells it) students have difficulty remembering material between Monday and Wednes-day and between Wednesday and Friday, and prefer more short sessions to fewer long ones, I propose seven-day-a-week, 30- minute-per-day classes. Note that this is even better value for students than under the old system, since they would be obtaining seven reinforcements rather than .four, plus an extra 10 minutes of actual contact time, each week. · Alternatively, since most students apparently do not . think they have trouble remembering material between Tuesday and Thursday (as. evidenced by their support for the prior schedule), we could arrange 6-day-per-week, 35· minute-per-dBy classes. This might help arrange selfish faculty concerns about teaching seven days per week, and it leaves one night av~ilable for WRUC General Managers State Positive Direction To the Editor: Last week's article con- cerning the WRUC elections did not represent the attitude at the radio station. The quote at fhe end of the article should have read \I feel that the positive direction the station has taken in the past few years can only continue llilder this group of responsibl-e and. creative students.'\ This past term has been marked by tbree charity events at tile station and more stable 1 yet innovative programming. The next year Executive Board has hopes of improving the station in the next year. WRUC is a large group of proud stu<ients wllo work hard and have a great time doing it. We feel very confident in WRUC's f11ture. Bob Goldstein Outgoing General Manager Jim Cirincione Incoming General Manager, WRUC Elections for Editor-in-Chief There will be ao elec- tion for the 1wo Con- cordiensis Editor-in- Chief positions today at 7:00 p:m .. in the Concordiensis office on tl1e third floo.r of Carnegie. Any student may run for the position. They are el e_cted by a vote of the editors and staff of Concordiensis. partying. We ·might ~ven the afternoon siesta can stay convince some local churches awake. .· and synagogues to host special It will be admitted that these services on Wednesday if a are expensiye remedies, large number of students seek although· the problem appears atonement for their Tuesday to be so serious that major steps night activities. clearly . are warranted. One A side benefit of such short would hope that the faculty and classes .is that we could easily administraion would treat these alleviate classroom .space remedies with the same problems associated with both seriousness as they would Mr. Gel-Time and the prior Hiller;s arguments. However, if schedule. budgetary strain precludes 2. Since the survey data these comprehensive attempts demonstrated that most at a·· solution. I suggest the students think they have more following somewnat cheapet study time under Gel-Time but (though ad.mittedly inferior) they are not using it for study, I solutions: urge the College to construct a , 2,100 seat auditorium with fold~ ou.t writing surfaces for each seat. Students would be ex- pected to report to the auditorium for directed study when not attending classes. Those students who already budget their own time ef- fectively may chafe under such · regimentation, but they would .. probably agree to it rather than · see their less disciplined classmates suffer as at the present. An incidental benefit of constructing such an auditiorumlstudy hall would be that we would have a place for all-campus events like the Minerva Hour, shoulcl we chance to book a top draw like Spuds MacKenzie rather than the ususal assortment of Ph. D's and politicians. 3. For the convenience of those students unable to gain proper access to faculty, we should equip each faculty member with a beeper paging system. A faculty member would be allowed to turn the beeper off during s()me eight- hour period each day, but would otherwise be on call im- mediately whenever the term is in session. 4. Free coffee shollld be provided in each classroom so that any students · in- convenienced by classes scheduled at 9 a.m. or during 1. Daily posting · at key locations around the campus of the weather page of al)y local newspaper, so that all ~tudents will become aware that dawn is always before 9:00_ a.m., and dusk often after 4:30 p.dl., in Schenectady. 2. Wider dissemination of information concerriing the Library's hours, so that those students who believe their study time is eroded by having mainly afternoon classes would know that there is a place for them to study beginning at 8:10 a.m.; they would thus not have to wait until after dinner. 3. A guided tc:mr of General Electric, Ellis Hospital, Mc- Donald's, and other local employers, 'beginning at the time employees ·Of those establishments report to work, to enlighten those students not now aware to the meaning of long work day. 4. Heavier reading and writing assignments by faculty members, in all classes, to raise the cost to students of the nightly partying the disastrous consequences of which Mr. Hiller so convincingly demonstrated. Sincerely. Bradley G. Lewis Associate Professor.of Economics

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, March 10, 1988 drllltlllrbtrnsis Founded at I imon College 1877 ---------- ------------ Get Moving On Academics This special issue of Concordiensis has been published because we believe that there are three major academic issues that arc unresolved. Neither the students or the faculty have a clear perception of some issues, and perhaps the most important issue is still unrecognized by the Union College community. We believe the General Education is the most important issue, and the proposal is ready. Assuming that courses required under the General Education Curriculum strictly follow the theme of this system, and are not diluted as Liberal Learning requirements were, we believe that ir. is a strong proposal. However we have three main concerns. 1. The history and literature sequences demand a very rigid structure that allows no room for error. If a student drops the first course in a sequence, he is effectively locked out of fulfilling four requirements until the first course in the sequence is offered the next year. For this sequence to be feasible, we suggest that the first course in each sequence should be offered during both fall and winter terms. That would provide students with two chances at getting into a desired sequence. To make this centerpiece work, the College must make the commitment to back the program with sufficient staff and enough sections to provide students with all the course options. This would insure that students would not be forced into undesired sequences. 2. The non-Western studies section is an important part of the curriculum. Furthermore, the study of modem languages should be emphasized. Under the current proposal terms abroad in Bath and Greece would fulfill the requirement, although no language courses are necessary for the programs. 3. To make certain the students benefit from this curriculum, the College needs to place a greater emphasis on the process of advising incoming freshmen. In order to make intelligent decisions in course selection, freshmen must be informed of the various options and requirements of the system. Advisors should also explain the rationale for the curriculum and the significance that Lhc different requirements have with regard to the modem world. The current advising system at Union, quite simply, is pathetic. Advisors provide little guidance and are generally considered to be a rubber stamp signature that is required for pre-registration. Another academic issue that Union has not recognized is the importance of writing in its curric1.1lum. As newspaper editors, we arc constantly reminded that even students who arc seriously interested in writing do n()L have the skills they need. Each year, Union is graduating hundreds of students who have no idea what a thesis paragraph is, let alone a complete sentence. Education is pointless if students are unable to communicate their knowledge. Freshmen Preceptorial is currcmly the only required course that provides any instruction in writing. This is Union's excuse for a writing course. We arc painfully aware that Preceptorial is more of a \Great Books\ course than a writing course. To solve this problem proposals such as Writing Across ilic Curriculum have been considered. Although this process of improvement began well before we entered the College, we are still left with Freshmen Preceptorial as our only writing requirement. The Writing Across the Curriculum has been shelved again as it awaits the final decisions on General Education. We support the proposal with the suggested revisions (see page 1) and believe it is time to put it into effect The most visible, but least important issue is Gel Time. It directly affects students, and is therefore their top priority. They are now looking for the faculty opinions. The Concordiensis survey this week has shown that, if nothing else, there is a strong difference in opinion between science and engineering and most of the liberal arts departments. It is clear to us that engineering, and perhaps science, need a different scheduling system. In part. this is from Union's hybrid nature as a \liberal arts college with engineering.\ Until the day Union creates a separate Union College School of Engineering and Applied Science, we have tn devise a means of accommodating both. We are not registrars. However. we have several suggestions that might help. Certain classes should be allowed to meet four or five days a week in shorter class periods. This could be accomplished by starting classes earlier and by having another morning time slot. This system would incorporate some ideas of the old system into Gel Time and would help those departments having difficulties with it. To solve the problem with attention spans, breaks in the longer classes should be mandatory and implemented into the schedule for lecture classes; studio arts and science lab would be exempted. These are just ideas. It is obvious that Gel Time works for about two thirds of the departments, but we need to find a way tn accommodate all needs. Revisions should begin now. The faculty must meet, so their ideas can be heard in a forum other than the College newspaper. When was the last faculty meeting? These are valid suggestions, and we see no need to wait another year to begin creating a better system. Some of these ideas have outlived our stay at Union and more. It's time to stop talking and put them into effect. LETTERS -Faculty Furnishes Further Gel-Time Formula To the Editor: Michael Hiller's clarion call ('~Student Forum Deems Gel- Time Ineffective\} on behalf of the Executive Cornmitee of Student Forum in your March issue surely clarified my own thinking on the matter. Although I do not agree with his remedy, and I am sure that student opinion is not unanimous 011 the matter, either, Mr. Hiller has certainly convinced me that drastic measures are necessary here on campus. Were I given the resources, I would .probably begin by implementing the following corrective program: 1. Since (as Mr. Hiller tells it) students have difficulty remembering material between Monday and Wednesday and between Wednesday and Friday, and prefer more short sessions to fewer long ones, I propose seven-day-a-week, 30- minute-per-day classes. Note that this is even better value for students than under the old system, since they would be obtaining seven reinforcements rather than four, plus an extra 10 minutes of actual contact time, each week. Alternatively, smce most students apparently do not think they have trouble remembering material between Tuesday and Thursday (as evidenced by their support for the prior schedule), we could arrange 6-day-per-week, 35- minute-per-day classes. This might help arrange selfish faculty concerns about teaching seven days per week, and it leaves one night available for WRUC General Managers State Positive Direction To the Editor: Last week's article con- cerning the WRUC elections did not represent the attitude at the radio station. The quote at the end of the article should have read \I feel that the positive direction the station has taken in the past few years can only continue under this group of responsible and creative students.\ This past term has been marked by three charity events at the station and more stable 1 yet innovative progranuJling. The next year Executive Board has hopes of improving the station in the next year. WRUC is a large group of proud students who work hard and have a great time doing it. We feel very confident in WRUC's future. Bob Goldstein Outgoing General Manager Jim Cirincione Incoming General Manager, WRUC Elections for Editor-inaChief There will be an elec- tion for the two Con- cordiensis Editor-in- Chief positions today at 7:00 p.m. in the Concordiensis office on the third floor of Carnegie. Any student may run for the position. They are elected by a vote of the editors and staff of Concordiensis. partying. We !illlght even convince some lecal churches and synagogues to host special services on Wednesday if a large number of students seek atonement far their Tuesday night activities. A side benefit of such short classes is that we could easily alleviate classroom space problems associated with botn Gel-Time and the prior schedule. 2. Since the survey data demonstrated that most students think they have more stady time under Gel-Time but they are not using it for study. I urge the College to construct a 2,100 seat auditorium with fold- out writing surfaces for each seat. Students would be ex- pected to report to the auditorium for directed study when not attending classes. Those students who already budget their own time ef- fectively may chafe under such regimentation, but they would probably agree to it rather than see their less disciplined classmates suffer as at the present. An incidental benefit of constructing such an auditiorurnlstudy hall would be that we would have a place for all-campus events like the Minerva Hour, should we chance to book a top draw like Spuds MacKenzie rathe1· than the ususal assortment of Ph. D's and politicians. 3. For the convenience of those students unable to gain proper access to faculty, we should equip each faculty member with a beeper paging system. A faculty member would be allowed to turn the beeper off during some eight· hour period each day, but would otherwise be on call im- mediately whenever the term is in session. 4. Free coffee should be provided in each classroom so that any students in- convenienced by classes scheduled at 9 a.m. or during llllll .. · .: . · ... ~· -.· ··r· -, !- :_ ? : ~ - :_. : : : .. -.-.: -::. ,·.- ,, . the afternoon siesta can stay awake. It will be admitted that these are expensive remedies, although the problem appears to be so serious that major steps clearly are warranted. One would hope that the faculty and administra.ion would treat these reinedies with the same seriousness as they would Mr. Hiner's a.rgurnents. However, if budgetary strain precludes these comprehensive attempts at a solution, I suggest the following somewhat cheaper (though admittedly inferior) solutions: 1. Daily posting at key locations around the campus of the weather page of any local newspaper' so that all students will become aware that dawn is always before 9:00 a.m., and dusk often after 4:30 p.m., in Schenectady. 2. Wider dissemination of information concerning the Library's hours, so that those students who believe their study time is eroded by having mainly afternoon classes would know that there is a place for them to study beginRing at 8:10 a.m.; they would thus not have to wait until after dinner. 3. A guided tour of General Electric, Ellis Hospital, Mc- Donald's, and other local employers, beginning at the time employees of those establishments report to work, to enlighten those students not now aware to the meaning of long work day. 4. Heavier reading and writing assignments by faculty members, in all classes, to raise the cost to students of the nightly partying the disastrous consequences of which Mr. Hiller so convincingly demonstrated. Sincerely, Bradley G. Lewis Associate Professor of Economics s!f~tt: ~thB~liner, ¥utt 'ni~. Rfabtt ;:M$~ Cberln,d~\ · ·· . ' · D~~! ~an .. ]of Chldse,r;m:· on~ 1¢nnifer Englll.rtct, ·.. t ·.· ~'It A1:ex <if /®tt < fantet a. ··her Chris H~~ M~m ik;kt~VIHt4~tit(i~~(,1~ieri:tee, Mi1f1 Beth Manniri.g, Cathy Markes. Virgfui\1! .Mijlio~ Tt~y Ptyluek, BillltO''b'bifis, 'l'ina Sciocthetlt. Susanne Shaker. i:r.ra Slteman, Mi$S)l SteWatl$ Craig Summe,rs. ·Ellen Tapley, Mark Van Buren, M~ Zimmerman. · · ADVERTISlNG STAFF: Michelle Alfano. Robin Baskin:, Missy Beal, lill Deuts<:h, Hele.ne. DeVties, Dina Golas, Lina Leung, Martina Moore, Leslie Morris, Liz Perk{)W.Ski. PHOTOGRAPHERS: T()ad Cocorikis. Amy Goldstein, Susan Kersch, Stan Kitzinger. CONCOR:DlENSIS is published every 'Thursday by the student · body of Union College, Schenectady, New York 12'308; Publicati()Jis Office; Susquehanna Publicati()fl, Inc., B0cx 388, Sidney, New York 13838 (607) 563-8339. Subscription rate: $24 per year, delivered anywhere in the United States. Coneordiensis subscribes to the intercollegi~te Press (IP). Office T~lephone (518) 37{)-6155. !! -

CONCORDIENSIS, March 10, 1988 Page .5 LETTERS AND COMMENT ARIES Registration Process Impedes Educational Progress Term Abroad Responsibilities To the Editor: I would like to take this OJl\' portunity to express my deepest gratitude to the Union CoUege Administration for making it a real challenge for students to receive an education at this fine institution. The obvious attention and foretbougllt that has g()ne into the· planning of the registration process says. a great deal-for the organization of the College. For the past f()ur years I have been closed ollt of no fewer \than ten courses, ne3rly 1/3 of aU those I attempted to register.for. When I came to l:Jnion, 1 was Wlder the naive impression tllat the reason y()u paid$10,965 a year in tuition (191l7 figure} was to take courses that would contribute to your education. To limit my criticism,. I won't even discuss the problems of understaffi~g and limited course sections and selection. Let me po.int out ·instead, several serious dysfunctions of our registration process. (If you are aware of these problems feel free to skip to the last paragraph). Students are trapped in a catch-22 position whereby they must fulfill nwnerous liberal learning requirements to graduate, but they are con- tinuously shut out ()f these courses. 'I'he. problems I have experien()ed are fairly common. As a freshman, I was closed out of numerous courses because selection followed a senior priority system. As a result I was forced to compromise my schedul~ and take second alternative courses. As a sophomore and a junior, I was still being cl6sed out of courses because seniors had priority. Twice I was locked out of science credit courses (I eventually begged my way into Bio 66 rny junior y~ar). There are a select number of popular courses each year that have waiting lists of somEtimes as many asllO students. The school should either-offer these more frequently ·or open more sec- tions of such courses. There are some cases where the seni()I\ priority system is not the best way to. determine who should be accepted into a class. Some .eonsideration should be given to the student's reason for needing to take a course. What if it is their last opportunity to take a requirement because they · are going on a tenn abroadlO or if it is a Cot:irse in their major, or a requirement for other ~ourses they plan on taking iQ. subsequent terms? As a junbr r· was closed out of \Majo:r American Authors\ which is a requirement for my major, because seniors had priority. · Consistency is also a problem with the -selection pr<Jcess. Now there i:s a new underclassmen~ major !Priority system which some departments follow. As a senior, r expected that the age priority system wollld finally work t() my benefit. I was surprised to find that once again I was closed out of a course because they have started to use the new undei\classmen priority system. Why is it that we I'llllst fight to get an education here? There are several ways the Think Spring/Think: Parents Weekend May s, 7, a ·. Greekweek May i1-14 Dg Olympics May 20 Fitzhugh Ludlow May 20 Camp Union May 28 Have A Wonderful Week! registration system could be improved. It would help if each department established and publici:z;ed the crit.eria for enrollment selection. This policy should remain C()nstant .from one year to the neltt, Then at least students would know how to work. within the system. The increased n1imber of card courses listed was supposed to insure a more just distribation of course allotments, and in most cases it has worked. In some instances it has clearly failed, This fall, . cards for the \Philosophical Problems'' were given out on a first come,. first served basis. This ai\chaic system is reminiscent of the winter term pre-registration seniors experienced our fresh- man year where the system broke down into utter chaos and developed into near riot because of just such a preference plan. The in- consistent policies for different courses and. different majors make it impossible for students to know how to best fight for their courses. Those few departments that have established consistent policies which have been publicized should be commended for their help and cooperation in im- proving a difficult situation. The Office of the 'Registrar needs to set up guidelines t(J insure a more orderly and just enrollment selection process. I can't resist pointing out that another solution would be t() hire extra professors tbey need to increase the number -of courses offered. Several years ago, when the course load .for pro~essors was reduced from seven ·to six, the number of 'courses offered dropved con- siderably. To make up for this indifference the college would have had to increase the faculty by at least 20 full time mem- bers. At the time the ad- ministration Claimed they in- tended to add abou.t 12 ad- ditional positions. Thisis.hardly the number required. Fur- thermore, the yearly increase in class size foi\ the past several years has put an additional burden on those courses of- fered. The· administration admitted this was a mistake, so why couldn't they tak:e the surplus of tuition payments and use it to increment the faculty size? But I promised not to get involved with that problem. So, I'll get back to th.e faults inherent to the registration system. During pre- registratton, students are reqUired to have their advisor sign their pre-registration form. We were given the course listings on Monday. On Wed- nesday, students had to sign up for cards, which were handed out on Friday. Assmning that you .are interested in any card co\lrSe~, as most students are, the earliest you will know what your schedule is will be on Friday. If you have to pre- register on Monday and your advisor is on the new Gel Time schedule with office boars limited to Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, you're out of luck. So you have to waste time hunting down a replacement signature. Under theSe cir- cumstances, the required signature is a complete .farce; even professors have been known to suggest .forgery. In the best of all possible worlds, you get cards from your courses in time to pre-register. But what if you end up on one -of the infamous waiting lists? There you are checking in every day to see if there are any cards left over that students haven't picked up and trying to get them. This problem could be solved by requiring that students either pick up theii\ cards by noon of the day after cards were first handed out, or notify the department of their intention to do so. Following this deadline, the abandoned cards should be given away. Under the present system, you must pre-register for alternative courses, then sit in on the class you want for a week and hope someone wbo is registered for the class doesn't show up. Meanwhile you miss the course you are registered for and it is risky to buy books for the one. you are sitti.Qg in on because who knows if you'll get in. So, either way it's a week lost in a ten week term. This, could be remedied by stipulating that if students do not show up for the first class or indicate .they are still interested their positions will be given away. All of this hunting for signatures, begging for courses, and searching for cards is extremely time conswning. I find myself neglecting my courses because I have to waste hours trying to fight my way into the courses I need. When it came time to registei\ for this term I was not surprised to encounter fUrthei\ proof of the College's obvious emphasis on the importance of education. I went to the Field House to register and found they were closing early to make room for a basketball game. After all, athletics are more important than registration. When I returned to register at their regular office on Friday as I was instructed to do, I did not see the emergency cards we. are supposed to move from pile A to pile B. I told the secretary I was there to register and proceeded to drop and add my courses. The College was kind enough to fine me $25 for a late registration fee because I forgot those all important cards which were on a pile on the counter (how could I have missed them, they were sitting right there). It won't help any to sit around and complain about the system. I tried to follow the proper channe~s of infl~;~enc~ .~d do something about 1t. I Jomed the Registrar's. Task Force ten weeks ago and as of yet no has contacted me. Maybe the group doesn't even exist any more. So I've decided to take the issue up on my own. I am compiling a report which will be .presented to Dean Wolf in the Registrar's Office with suggestions to improve the system.. It would help if you send me (Box No. 1305) concrete examples of problems you have had with registration and suggestions for improvement. It would be nice if we could .spend more time learning and less time fighting for an education. Thank you, Lee Ann Schmidt, '88 EMS FIRST RESPONDER! AMERICAN RED CROSS ATTENTION ...•• Reglstratlon for th~Advanced First Aid course Is soon approaching. A:ll Interested should register before March 14 In Wells House,. Continulng Education, non- credit office. If you have any ques-tions call Darrln at 346-4896 or Dave at 370-6913 T() the Editor: Being accepted for a tenn abroad caiTies with it certain obligations both to your fellow students and to the College. Thus, I ask you to begin now to consider serioUsly the degree of commitment you have toward the program for which you have been accepted. As you are probably well aware, in most of our programs there are waiting lists, often quite lengthy, of students . who would very much like to par- ticipate in the program. Thus, if at any time you decide that you will be unable to participate, you are asked to notify the Terms Abroad Office im- mediately so that the nex:t person on the waiting list can be accepted. If for whatever reason yo11 are uncertain about yow- being able to participate, I ask that you come in and discuss the situation with me. Dong so will not jeopardize yoar position in the program, but will allow students on the waiting list to have a more accurate assessment of their chance of being accepted, which is par- ticularly important because of planning for the prereqUisite course. As in the past, your $200 deposit will be refunded if you are forced to withdraw from the program for valid personal or academic reasons. Such I\easons include: serious per- sonal illness, serious illness or death in your immediate family, ehanged academic or financial circU111Stances that could not have been foreseen, and comparable cir- cwnstances. From the College's point of view, the withdrawals that cause real problems are those that occur at what we call ''the last minute.\ You will find below a list of dates after which withdrawal from a program becomes a very serious matter. Y ott perhaps will not see them as \the last minute,\ given the fact that they occur a month or more before the beginning of the program, but for those of us here and abroad involved in planning for a program, they are. Occasionally, we must pay penalties for last minute with- dra.wal!i tllat go well beyond the $200, di!!p!)Sit. More important, however_, b that these with• drawalst when they oecur for the WT()ng reasons, have the potential to damage seriously the I\e:]Jiltation of our programs andevl!'!ntually their quality. To give yo;u jUS; one example: if a family abroad expects to host a Uni()n st11dent and is then told that Jlle student won't be arriv:in~, it may decide that it can'ttrustUnion. A good family may be lost. There are a number of other examples. Begimning with the academic year 1983-89, i.e., with the Socia]2ed Medicine program in the SlliDill.er of 1988, a student who wtthocaws from a program after tbe dates listed below will' be as~essed a penalty of $500 unles:s a valid personal or acad:em,i c circum stance necess3tates withdrawal. We do not ex:.pect you to go abroad while suffering from mon()weu.cleosis. On :the other hand,. withdrawing a week before the beginning of a progran1 because yoa have decided to change your major is not a· valid reason. There are man;y oceasions to which one has tea rise while studying and ,travellii!g abroad, and hornEsidmess is one of them. Homesickness is a curable condition, not a valid reason to withodraw from a prog:ram. Aga;in,. what I am asking is that ;r''()U think ahead, which I realizE is not always easy So long t!lefore the actual program. If I can be of any help in this thinki:ng process, I would be morE than happy to talk with you. Tnank you f()r your c<Jope-rati<Jn. Dates after which withdrawal from et tenn abroad may cause the assessment of a $500 penalty: S<JciaUzetl Medicine, May 5; Chin!l, France, and Japan, July ~; Bath, Italy, and York, August 1(); Barllados, Greece, Israel, and Mex:.ico.Spain, November 15; Aastria·Germany and the Marine Term, February 20. Sincerely, William W. Thomas, Director of Terms Abroad CDC NE'WS 11th Annual MetroDolitan tlew York Career Night - Wednesday. March 23. 1988. The Metropolitan New York Alumni Club is 5p(lf:IS()rin!J their evening career panel during Spring break. Alumni front a variety of. career fields Vlill tell you their own stories-how1hey made ~ to where !!h-ey are. how Union affected their caroors, and what options are available lo y~>u. Fields represented in~ elude ad11ertising, law, industrial/labor relatioms;, and city govenment to name a lew. Wednesday, Marcil 23, 1988 .. 5:3()-9:00 pm, sandwich buffet amc:l panel presentation New York Telephone, 1095 Avenue of the Americas Reserve your place now at the Care!IElr Development Center (before you leave f()r break). Career Assistant !il)p!lcatlons Applications are available for Career Assistoantpositions with the CDC for the 1988-89 academic year. For inforrnati(Jn and applications, stop by the CDC. APPLICATION DEADLINE; WED., APRILS., If you are going on Term Abroad in the Spring, contact Peter Trolio at x6176 immediately. CAREER OBSER'VATION DAYS How ca,n.l decide on a career field ifl &n•t know what's out there? How do I know what's out th.er'e if I've never had a \real\ ·job? What can someone with my rn.c.Jordo after college? Uniorr College alumni in the Capital District will host students at their work places APRIL 19-21. This is an excellent opportunity to · spend a day \on the job'' gaining an inside -view of careers. The pro- gram is open to all students, freshmen through graduate-level, of all academic majors. You don't have to know what y()ur career plans are to participate. Sign-ups will be held on a first-corn e.1irst-served basis on Tues· · day, Thursday, April 5-7, in the CDC. Jol> descriptions of the hosts will be available at sign-ups. Stude!l!1s who sign up will be required to attend an information 111eeting on April 8.

CONCORDIENSIS, March 10, 1988 Page 5 LETTERS AND COMMENT ARIES Registration Process Impedes Educational Progress Term Abroad Responsibilities To the Editor: I wotrld like to take this op- portunity to express my deepest gratitude te the Union College Administration for making it a real challenge for students to receive an education at this fine institution. The obvious attenti<m and forethaught that has gone into the planning of the registration precess says a great deal for the organization of the College. For the past four years I have been closed out of no fewer than ten courses, nearly 1/3 of all those I attempted to register for. When I came to Union, I was under the naive impression that the reason you paid $10,965 a year in tuition ( 1987 figure) was to take courses that would contribute to your education. To limit my criticism, I won't even. discuss the problems of understaffing and limited course sections and selectian. Let me point out instead, several serious dysfunctions of our registration process. (If you are aware of these problems feel free to skip ta the last paragraph). Students are trapped in a catch-22 position whereby they must fulfill numerous liberal learning requirements to graduate, but they are con- tinuously shut out of these courses. The problems I have experienced are fairly common. As a freshman, I was closed out of numerous courses because selection followed a senior priority system. As a result I was forced to compromise my schedule and take second alternative courses. As a sophomore and a junior, I was still being closed out of courses because seniot·s had priority. Twice I was locked out of science credit courses (I eventually begged my way into Bio 66 my junior year). There are a select number of popular courses each year that have waiting lists of sometimes as many as 80 students. The school should either offer these more frequently or open more sec- tions of such courses. There are some cases where the senior priority system is not the best way to determine who should be accepted into a class. Som.e consideration should be given to the student's reas()n for needing to take a course. What if it is their last opportunity to take a requirement because they are going on a term abroad, or if it is a course in their major, or a requirement for other courses they plan on taking in subsequent terms? As a junior I was closed out of \Major American Auth.ors\ which is a requirement f()r my major, because seniors had priority. Consistency is also a problem with the selection process. Now there is a new underclassmen- major priority system which some departments follow. As a senior, I expected that the age priority system would finally work to my benefit. I was surprised to find that once again I was closed out of a course because they have started to use the new underclassmen priority system. Why is it that we must fight to get an education here? There are several ways the Think Spring/Think: Parents Weekend May6,7,8 Greekweek May 11·14 Dg Olympics May 20 Fitzhugh Ludlow May 2.0 Camp Union May 28 Have A Wonderful Week! registration system could be improved. 1t would help if each department established and publicized the criteria for enrollmen.t selection. Thts policy shauld remain constant from one year to the next. Then at least students would kRow how to work within the system. The increased nwnber of card courses listed was supposed to insure a more just distribution of course allotments, and in most cases it has worked. In some instances it has clearly failed. Tilis fall, cards for the ''Philosophical Problems'' were given out on a first come, first served basis. This archaic system is reminiscent of the winter term pre-registration seniors experienced our fresh- man year where the system broke down into utter chaos and developed into near riot because of just such a preference plan. The in- consistent policies for different courses and different majors make it impessible for students to know how to best fight for their courses. Those few departments that have established consistent policies which have been publicized should be commended for their help and cooperation in im- proving a difficult situation. The Office of the Registrar needs to set up guidelines to insure a more orderly and just enrollment selection process. I can't resist pointing out that another solution would be to hire extra professors they need to increase the munber of courses offered. Several years ago, when the course load for professors was reduced from seven to six, the number of courses offered dropped con- siderably. To make up for this indifference the college would have had to increase the faculty by at least 20 full time mem- bers. At the time the ad- ministration claimed they in- tended to add about 12 ad- ditional positions. This is hardly the number required. Fur- thermore, the yearly increase in class size for the past several years has put an additional burden on those courses of- fered. The administration admitted this was a mistake, so why couldn't they take the surplus of tuition payments and use it to increment the faculty size? But I promised not to get involved with that problem. So, I'll get back to the faults inherent to the registration system. During pre- registration, students are required to have their advisor sign their pre-registration form. We were given the course listings on Monday. On Wed- nesday, students had to sign up for cards, which were handed out on Friday. Assuming that you are interested in any card courses, as most students are, the earliest you will know what your schedule is will be on Friday. If you have to pre- register on Monday and your advisor is on the new Gel Time schedule with office hours limited to Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, you're out of luck. So you have to waste time hunting down a replacement signature. Under these cir- cumstances, the required signature is a complete farce; even professors have been known to suggest forgery. In the best af all possible worlds, you get cards from your courses in time to pre-register. But what if you end up on ene of the Infamous waiting lists? There you are checking in every day to see if there are any cards left over that students haven't picked up and trying to get them. This problem could be solved by requiring that students either pick up their cards by noon of the day after cards were first handed out, or notify the department of their rntentian to do so. Following this deadline, the abandoned cards should be given away. Under the present system, you must pre-register for alternative courses, then sit in on the class you want for a week and hope someone who is registered for the class doesn't show up. Meanwhile you miss the course you are registered for and it is risky to buy books for the one you are sitting in on because who knows if you'll get in. So, either way it's a week lost in a ten week term. This could be remedied by stipulating that if students do not show up for the first class or indicate they are still interested their positions will be given away. All of this hunting for signatures, begging for courses, and searching for cards is extremely time consuming. I find myself neglecting my courses because I have to waste hours trying to fight my way into the courses I need. When it carne time to register for this term 1 was not surprised to encounter further proof of the College's obvious eniphas1s on the importance of education. I went to the Field House to register and found they were closing early to make room for a basketball game. After all, athletics are more important than registration. When I returned to register at their regular office on Friday as I was instructed to do, I did not see the emergency cards we are supposed to move from pile A to pile B. I told the secretary I was there to register and proceeded to drop and add my courses. The College was kind enough to fine me $25 for a late registration fee because I forgot those all important cards which were on a pile on the counter (how could I have missed them, they were sitting right there). It won't help any to sit around and complain about the system. I tried to follow the proper channels of influence at;td do S()mething about it. I joined the Registrar's Task Force ten weeks ago and as of yet no has contacted me. Maybe the group doesn't even exist any more. So I've decided to take the issue up on my own. I am compiling a report which will be presented to Dean Wolf in the Registrar's Office with suggestions to improve the system. It would help if you send me (Box No. 1305) can crete examples of problems you have had with registration and suggestions for improvement. It would be nice if we could spend more time learning and less time fighting for an education. Thank you, Lee Ann Schmidt, '88 EMS FIRST RESPONDER/AMERICAN RED CROSS ATTENTION ..... Reglstratlon for theAdvanced First Aid course Is soon approach lng. All Interested should register before March 14 In Wells House, Continuing Education, non- credit off.ice. If you have any ques-tions call Darrln at 346·4896 or Dave at 370-6913 Te the Editor: Being accepted for a term abroad carries with it certain obligations beth to your fellow students and to the College. Thus, I ask you to begin now to consider seriously the degree of commitment you have toward the program for which you have been accepted. As you are probably well aware, in most of our programs there are waitiRg lists, often quite lengthy, of students who would very much like to par· ticipate in the program. Thus, if at any time you decide that you will be unable to participate, you are asked to notify the Terms Abroad Office im· mediately so that the next person on the waiting list can be accepted. If for whatever reason you are uncertain about your being able to participate, I ask that you come in and discuss the situation with me. Dong so will11ot jeopardize your position in the program, but will allow students on the waiting list to have a more accurate assessment of their chance of being accepted, which is par- ticularly important because of planning for the prerequisite course. As in the past, your $200 deposit will be refWlded if you are forced to withdraw from the program for valid personal or academic reasons. Such reasons include: serious per- sonal illness, serious illness or death in your immedia~e farnily, changed academic Olr financial circumstances that could not have been foresee!l, and comparable cir- cumstances. From the College's point ()f view, the withdrawals that cause real problems are thosce that occur at what we call \thee last minute.\ You will find below a list of dates after whicil withdrawal from a program becomes a very serious matter. You perhaps will not see them as \the last minute,\ given th<e fact that they occur a month ()r more before the beginning of the program, but for those of 11s here and abroad involved in planning for a program, they are. Occasionally, we must pay penalties for last minute with- CDC drawals that go we11 beyond the $200 depvsit. More important, :however, is that these with- drawals, when they occur for the wrong reasons, have the potential to damage seriously the reputation of our programs and eventually their quality. To give you just one example: if a famHy abroad expects to host a Union student and is then told that the student won't be arriving, it may decide that it can't trust Union. A good family may be lost. There are a number <lf other examples. Beginning with the academic year 1988-89, i.e., with the Socialized Medicine program in the summer of 1988, a student who withdraws from a program after the dates listed below will be assessed a penalty of $500 unless a valid personal or academic circumstance necessitates withdrawal. We do not expect you to go abroad while suffering from mononeucleosis. On the other hand, withdrawing a week before the beginning of a progrann because you have decided to change your major is not a valid reason. There are many occasions to which one has to rise while studying and .travelling abroad, and homesickness is one of them. Homesickness is a curable condition, not a valid reason to withdraw from a program. Again, what I am asking is that you think ahead, which I realize is not always easy so long before the actual program. If I can be of any help in this thinking process, I would be more than happy to talk with you. Thank you for your cooperation. Dates after which withdrawal from a term abroad may cause the assessment of a $500 penalty: Socialized Medicine, May 5; China, France, and Japan, July 25; Bath, Italy, and York, August 10; Barbados, Greece, Israel, and Mexico-Spain, November 15; Austria-Germany and the Marine Term, February 20. Sincerely, William W. Thomas, Director of Terms Abroad NEWS 11th Annual Metrooolitan New York Career Night - . Wednesday. March 23. 1988. The Metropolitan New York Alumni :Club is sponsoring their evening career panel during Spring break. Alumni from a variety of career fields will tell you their own stories-how-they made it to where ~hey are, how Union affected their careers, and what options are available to you. Fields represented in- clude advertising, law, industrial/labor relations, and c~y govenmentto name a few. Wednesday, March 23, 1988 5:30·9:00 pm, sandwicll buffet and panel presentation New York Telephone, 1095 Avenue of the Americas Reserve your place now at the Career Development Center (before you leave for break). Career Assistant Applications Applications are available for Career Assistant positions with the CDC for the 1988-89 academic year. For information and applications, stop by the CDC. APPLICATION DEADLINE; WED., APRIL6., II you are going on Term Abroad in the Spring, contact Peter Trolio at :<6176 immediately. CAREER OBSERVATION DAYS How can l decide on a caree.r field if I don't know what's out there? How do I know what's out there if I've never had a. \real\ job? What can someone wi~h my major do after college? Union College alumni in the Capital District will host students at their work places APRIL 19-21. This is an excellent opportunity to spend a day \on the job\ gair~ing an inside view of careers. The pro- gram is open to all students, freshmen through graduate·level, of all academic majors. You don't have to know what your career plans are to participate. Sign-ups will be held on a first-come, first-served basis on Tues- day, Thursday, April 5-7, in ihe CDC. Job descriptions of the hosts will be available at sign-ups. Students who sign up will be required to attend an inf()rmation meeting on April 8.

Page 6 ' CONCORDIENSIS, M~rc\ J_,O, 1988 LETTERS Personal and Political Testimony To the Editor: I am writing in r~sponse to a letter which was ciirected at myself in Concordiensis on March 3, 1988. Th ~ letter, co- written by Ms. Rebekah Thayer and Mr. Patrick Perivier, led the reader to believe that I made an obscene :phone call, am immature, am associated with outside parties, and attack opposing opini()ns. I must therefore defend myself, somehow, against this supreme, all•knowing entity on the Union College grounds. To begin, I deny any charge or association with obscene phone calls-1 am willing to testify to that. I agree with Ms. Thayer and Mr. Perivier that this is innnature, and also believe that it is 'inunature to try to draw conclusions without knowing all the facts. Secondly, my accusers, in my opinion, tried to lie my actions of person~l note writing in with the association I have with my roommate, Jack Markis, whom I can honestly say is one of the finest Americans I have ever met. Jack had n()thing to do with my actions. Ms. Thayer and Mr. Perivier also state that lllave attacked opposing political views, which I have not. Nowhere in my association with either of these people have I done that, nor with any other people to whom I have written. The funny thing is, neither Ms. Thayer or Mr. Perivier approached me per- sonally, and do not even know the p\ll\pose of what or why I did what I did. If they had, they probably never would have cried wolf. A:s for the accusations of inunaturity, i£ my defense is not good enough, then I suppose Ms. Thayer and Mr. Perivier are right again, as usual. If I am immature, my only excuse is that I love my coWltry, and the next time I decide to keep a scrapbook of an election year, I will make sure t() take more careful actions. Just one more thing-Ms~ . Thayer and Mr~ Perivier stated that Senator Joseph McCarthy wollld be proud of me. Senator McCarthy loved and defended Am~rica, and I believe that it is unfair of both Ms. Thayer and Mr. Perivier (who is not even a citizen) to try to associate myself with such a great man. I thank them both, and, in gratitude, would like to offer a similar compliment. \Hanoi\ Jane would be .proud of you both, Ms. Thayer and Mr. Perivier. Carl Friedrich Jr. '91 Gen.. Ed. Curriculum • • • Continued from page 2 make the ex.tradivisional requirement four courses rather than three so that students who feel the pinch will steer themselves into the three- course FL option. For about half of them, th<Jse who could be placed at the 12·level or higher, this requirement can be diminished to two courses. (a) Foreign Language Track: a sequence ofany three courses in a single classical or modern foreign language. Students will not be disc()uraged from beginning a new language to fulfill this option, but students who choose tc continue to study a language tl!ey have· begWl elsewhere and can place at the 12-level or higher will earn a waiver of one course toward fulfilhnent of this requirement. The most advanced students will also have an incentive to double-count liter-ature and civilization courses taken in the foreign language if they match the I:Jistory sequence courses elsewhere in the general education curriculwn. Rationale: If we were to recommend a foreign language requirement, we would not regard it t() be part of a \Humanities requirement\ but see it rather as an all-College requirement. The study of a foreign language develops skills transferable to all other areas of intellectual inquiry; and, once acquired, a· working knowledge of a foreign language opens special routes of access to professionals in any discipline. Instead of a weak FL requirement for all students (the measure chosen by too many colleges), we aim to provide strong incentives for many students, especially those who can best succeed at FL study. With these new in- centives, we expect that more than the current 50 percent of Union students will choose to take courses in a foreign language, and that significantly more than currently do so will leave Union with a true working knowledge of the language they study. · (b) Non-Western Studies Option: any related group of four courses taken without regard to Division in Asian Studies or Latin · American Studies or Middle Eastern Studies (one of which may be History 10). Rationale: The General Education curriculwn should offer this complement to its emphasis ()n Western Civilization. The incentive to students to choose the non- Western Studies option lies in the opportunity to double-eoWlt within a major and, of course, to fulfill the requirement without regard to the Division in which the courses are taken. We keep the required number at four in order to enhance the at- tractiveness of the \com- peting\ three-course track in foreign languages. If Non· Western Studies were a three- c<Jurse requirement, our believe is that it would attract more studens than it could reasonably serve. As time goes on, and we see how students make their choices, we can easily recalibrate our incentives. (c) Foreign Study Option: any Union Term Abroad (at least three courses) with associated prerequisites (at least ()ne course), or equivalent study abroad. Rationale: The conunitment of four courses to cross-.cultural experience without regard to Division is likely to be at least as broadening for most students as any extradivisional array of courses. After 4 Years ..•.• ARE YOU GOING TO GRADUATE?? Let Evuyone Know You've Survilled 4 years At Union! Order GRADUATION ANNOUNCEMENTS from Mrs. Marra in room 408 Co1lege Center $.75 each or $10 for 50 personalized with YOUR name ORDER YOURS NOW Third Party· Cleared From Incidents To the Editor: In reference bl> tlte letter submitted last we·elc. ])y Patrick Perivier and myself~ I would like to make a point .of clarification. Tile poi!l:t of the letter was th.at opposing viewpoints should. be:~respected. Obscene phone <!ails~ notes of any sort of a threatenillg nature and harrassment -of ,aoy sort are unacceptable. Jack ~arkis has approached me, D(!!an Mam· mola, and the ·edtors of Con- cordiensis accllsimg me, although Mt Pattrick of \slandering\ llis n~e. The point was made :tbllt I would like to make clear is tllat blame was not placed ()ll flfr:.. Markis or anyone else for any of the in- cidents mention~d: ill the letter other than the note that was -sent to us by Carl Friedrich. Jack Markis' viewpoint was mentioned as a point of reference from the article that began this controversy in the· previous week's Concordiensis. His viewpoint is shared by Carl Friedrich and those Tesponsible for the other incidents, whoever they may be. This Mr. Markis has affirmed to me~ In this manner rather than restating the conflict within the. editorial itself, those reading it could refer to the quotes by myself, Patrick, and Jack to un- derstand the conflict of interest that prompted Carl Friedrich and the others involved to do what they did. The reason for this ts that the conflict of opil)ion was not the point of the letter. I will not apologize for libelli:og Mr. Markis, as libel is intentional malicious misrepresentation of facts to damage someone's reputation .. As I have made clear here; this was not done. Another clarification I would like to make is the reference to Senator Joseph McCarthy. .. After the paper went to press, it was brought to my attention that the individuals involved greatly admire Senator Mc- Carthy. Ironically, it was taken to be a compliment. However, it wasn't. Sincerely, Rebekah Thaver '90 Why are these students smiling? They are Gatesmen! Pick up an application today at I unchtime in the College Center or stop by the admissions office. Applicaticms are due the first week of spring term. Interviews for prospective Gates- men will be sch..eduled for early next term. Apply today! We are looking; f10r a few good women and men willing to give an hour a week to give toms to prospective students. Learn the campus inside out-meet new people-sophomores~ and juniors are ft~.v()red in the selection process. Show Your Pride In Your School-Become A Gatesman I ;{' GREEN MOONLIGHT .MADNESS SALE!!-·._ March 13th-17th While studying in the spirit of St. Patrick's :)ay, come in to the Dutch Hollow between 8~ 11 p.m. and.get a mint chocolate chip or pistachio nut ice cream cone for SO<t. 'Special on Dove Ba.rs for· $1.3? Come in wearing Green and-get a Reuben for $1.99, and a small soda FREE. ... : ... ·~. _, .. :::.• Stop in this week for Irish Cream coffee and soda bread.

I) It I. I, 1'1 I ~ CONCORDIENSIS~ March 10, 1988 CLASSIFIED LOSTKEYSthispast weekend- if you've found them (1 car key, 1 room key, both on a navy blue key ring), please return to ~ox 872 or call x6850. *This Weekend, 7, 9, & 11 p.m. in the Colleg~ Center HELP WANTED: ·student Clerical Assistants needed for week of March 21-25 to work in Registrar's Office, cUpping together registration packets, sorting student schedules .and delivering materials around on campus. Hours are 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Pay is Minimum Wage. Please contact Penny Adey in the Registrar's Office, Whitaker House, for further BLOOM COUNTY details. ·- PERSONALS Marn- This intersection or 'the next one? Golden Crutch Brady Terrific job on Sunday! Thanks for the handful of cheese! We took a year off my mother's life!- Egger J-,Sorry about the germs -S Gretch-Congratulations! but did you ever find the pizza? Scutter Wolf- Even though things always bounce off you, never forget that I am always available, always. LoveJ To tbose 1 truly love - Thanks for the Vermonster. lt was wonderful. No one has ever been so good to me. -from the one who doesn't deserve it Miss Natole-Here's your personal. Don't miss nie over break. I love you -Gretch Denise- You were pumped up! Maine was the deal Super substitute! -Egger by Berke Breathed )tO(/ MeliN ~Ur<61Cf/U.Y . INV~fn- HI~ fcK50NIIL.I7Y !' Ft.IP-r?OP H/5 Of'INION5 liNt? t.IK£ W€ 117Tmlf1£~ ? RIP TO . . ·I WHIIf&HI&Nfltl1l! I?&C£tm..Y ... IWI11HcN 7rJKN Hllt.P Of rr PIIKKS/< ... M€11NEf? 1 IIA5TicR, MOKtf VHf,gp/t;(lf!Jf..Y eMOT!ON/11.- • ) PICK GS\IIAf<Pr. I 111fiT'~ '/?(JtEZRTION/' YOtJ 8CJ09. ( CHIU.. OtJT. emtcfl.. WilY JT'5 FATAt... I .. Page 7 Terri-As S.N. says-\J[ou can talk to me ... '' I hope you con- sider me one of those you could come to when you're down. You're an admirable athlete and person -Egger Mrs. Stevens--Thanks for so far, dare me to do this f()r another year, here's your silly personal. Big! After tomorrow, consider you gone. Hope you and Man· dele enjoy the mud and the SWl. And the girls. And-oh, forget it. . Jenny Lee-It has been an honor ·to run with you. Keep singing! You're the best! - Egger Bear-Take care of that knee and get psyched for spring! Sub four mile relay! Thank you f()r being a friend. -Egger Deb Freeman: The SWl may not always shine on South, but sometimes we can see the moon! Willie pledge: Only one more term to go before full Williehood. Keep it up - The Willies Concordiensis elections tonight 7: 00 p.m. in the office! BM-Congrats- The light at the end of the tunnel is here, and it's a Cape Cod sunset! Dave Steve and Mike you finally found your event! Thanks for the help -:Sue P.S. Stop tormenting my. roommate. I have a feeling I might be next. Erica-Ha.ve a fantastic time in Vienna. Miss you back in good . old Schenectady -susan · D.W.J.D. Happy birthday to someone who doesn't look like he's over the hill. HOT DAMN! ! ! TAS CLUB NEWS CROSS COUNTRY SKIERS-IE you're interested in skiing with the team next year-A ski company has contacted me - about an exciting equipment off~r. If you are at all in- terested, call Susan 370-6908 But please... suCKLE UP IT'S THE LAW! Have a \Safe Break '88\!

\ Women's Track T ea·m Places Wel-l Ag-.inst .Tough Compe_tition ·at ECAC's Baseball Preview By WOMEN'S TRACK TEAM This .past weekend, six members .of the Union's women's track team made the long tr:ip tp Maine to compete in the Eastern College Athletic Conference Champion-ships at Bates College. The ladies competed against some of the best track athletes in the northeast, coming from as far away as Virginia. Altilough the competition was :t: stiff. the team did quite · · .. ·. g respectably. · ffi The team entered two relays, ~ the BOOm relay, and the Mile ~ relay, both consisting of Terri ~ Thomas, Denise McMillan, Meg o Parsons, and Jen Lee . .Me- ~ Millan was a last-minute ll. replacement for Claire Gin- Mar~h 10,.1988 Dutchmen Look to Power Offense, Soli·d Defense; Pitching Rotation Reb·uilds By CARL R. FRIEDRICH JR. With spring approaching, one's mind can wander frequently to the rites of spring, and what would spring be without baseball?- *** The 1983 Union College baseball team is looking for- ward to the spring with more anticipation than most. After the vistory and finals ap- pearance in the E.C.A.C. tournament in 1986 and 1987, respectively, who could doubt them? The '88 squad possesses the ability to contend again, but must work hard and attain the glory of seasons past. The Dutchmen are fairly strong in all areas, but their overall power is in their bats. With a nucleus of center fielder Dave Anderson ( .338 overall average in '87, 3 home rtms, 20 runs batted in), Tony Amarante (.41~,4,27), and Pat Secchiaroli ( .367, 16 runs scored in limited action as a DH and utility player), the Dutchmen should have no problem scoring runs. First baseman Dan Klinger rounds out Union's big four. After a slow start last year, Klinger came on strong to finish with a .301 average,. with 16 RBI and 14 runs scored. Balance is a suitable word to describe the Dutclunen offense, with no one player dominating or holding thena back. The team runs well, once again with no specialties. Anderson led the team with seven stolen bases, but is not far ahead of the team average in that category. Defense is another strength of this years's squad. Coach Gary Reynolds feels next to run production, fielding is a Union strength. Anderson is a four year starter in Willie Mays Tim Valachovic looks to pick up from his strong finish in 1987. land, and Secchiaroli is reliable in almost any position. Sophomore Scott Dell'Ofano is solid behind the plate and can handle the pitchers well, as is freslunan Rich Wolfe, who will back up Dell'Ofano. Pitching is critical to any team, and the Dutchmen are no exception. Over past seasons, Attention Cross-Country Skiiers If you're considering skiin'g with the team next year -- a ski company has contacted the team with an exciting equipment offer. If interested at all, contact Sus an, 370-6908. Sup.port Union College Spring Athletics the staff was blessed with a leader in Rich Bartosch, who · led the team in wins for two years before graduating last spring. This year the staff will be searching for new leaders, and may find them in seniors Ken Horan and Tim Valachovic. Last season Horan p()sted a 3-1 record ·'with a fine 2 .. 67 ERA. Valachovic had a rough start and ended up 1-2, and 5.51 ERA total, but that d()eS not tell the full story. Valachovic came on strong towards tbe end of the season. This year Valachovic should be 11sed primarily in relief but . should also spot start. . Beyond the top two spots, Mark Trudeau ('90), Bill Weidman ('89), and Ed Whelan ( '91) should see action both in the starting rotation and in the ball pen. Reynolds sees good depth in his pitching, but stresses that it remains to be seen how they (not to mention the whole team) perform under pressure. Injuries are · an unknown factor as well, on from which depth is the only true savior. The overall outlook for the season is a pDsitive one, Reynolds believing that the team \should be cvmpetitive.\ Over spring break the team will travel to ~yrtle .Beach to iron out the imperfectivns and will open up the season hosting the lll.ghly respected St. LaWrence team in an April2doubleheader at Central Park in.Schertectady. 'There is not much quite like a sunny day in the park, especially with good baseball · around. sberg-.Lytle in the Mile relay, after Claire suffered a painful knee injury .. The BOOm relay ran strong, finishing with a fine time <Jf 1:52 in a.field of much larger, more eXperienced teams. The Mile relay showed tremendous .promise for the spring s~ason as they broke yet another school record. Their time of 4:14 was two seconds faster then · their time last weekend which had placed them third in the state. Eileen · Brady represented Union's distance squad as she ran her best time this season in the 1500m run, with a 5:,00 fiat. Over the past few weeks; Eileen has consistently lowered. the times, and come spring she'll he better than ever. J en Lee ran in the 600yd. run, and managed to capture a third place medal for her efforts. Her time of 1:28.6 was % second away from the winner. Ter.ri Thomas represented the team as well as she ran against some of the fastest runners in the east. She was able to nab the 6th place position in the 200m dash, which as a freshman is quite an ac- . complishment. Terri also broke her--:Qwn school ·record in the. process by running a 27 .3. So although Union didn't .score as many points as the larger schools, they definitely held their own. When the team left the meet, they had made su.re that everyone there heard of Unian Callege. · Women's Swimming Completes Best Season in History Team Sets 21 Union Records On Way to s ... J Season The Union College women's swim team completed its best season in history. The Dut- chwomen, under first-year head coach Susan Bassett, posted an 8·1 regular~season record. They scored 207.5 points to place lOth out of 15 at the R Y. State Meet to conclude iheir season. Once more, the team, which is dominated by sophomores and freshmen, set 21 Union College records. ''I can't be prouder of this group,\ said Bassett, who came to Union last summer after compiling a 61·20 seven-year record at William Smith. · The Dutchwomen, who had never won more than three meets in a single season and who had scored 100 points in a meet only once prior to this year, hit the century mark in all nine outings. A 116-100 loss at Middlebury in the final meet of the season was the only blemish on an otherwise perfect cam- paign. Aside from the out- standing dual meet record, Union also took first place honors in the Capital District Meet. Senior Elinor Doty set four records as · did sophonaores Kathy · Kavaney and Mary Kelly. Sophomore Jamie Lipsher ·established three standards. Doty, one of only four seniors on the squad, set the Union records in the 100 breaststroke (1:15.15), the 200 breast (2:40.70), and 100 IM (1:07.90) and the 200 IM (2:23.61). Kavaney established marks in the 100 freestyle (58.01), and the 50, 100, and 200 butterfly events with times of 28.3,. 1:01.41, and 2:.21.28 respectively. Kelly rewrote all of Union~s diving records. In the one meter six dives event, she recorded 170.60 points. In the three meter six dives event she scored 205.55. In the one naeter 11 dives conapetition, Kelly picked up 282.75 points, and· in the three naeter 11 dives event she had 262.40; Lipsher rewrote all of the Dutchwomen marks in the freestyle races. In the 500, she had a time of 5:45.05. In the 1,000, she had an 11:45.57, and in the 1,650, Lipsher had a time of 19:56.72 All five relay teanas set college records this season. The 200 medley, relay team, · which includes sophomore Lisa Pizzuto, .Doty, Kavaney, and freshman Pam Fiedler swam a 2:04.53 while the 400 medley squad, which includes Pizzuto. Doty, sophomore Cindy Curtis, and Lipsher had a' time · of 4:39.57. The quartet of Fiedler, Pizzuto, Lipsher, and Kavaney set records in both the 200 and 400 relay events with respective times of 1:48.67 and 3:58.80. the 800 free relay team of Lips her, Pizzuto, jlUlior Jennifer Nolan (Gales Ferry, CT/Ledyard), and Fiedler recorded a 9:01.25. Fiedler also set the 200 freestyle standard with a 2:08.89. In the state naeet, Union was in the top 15 in 17 of the events. Kavaney did very well as she took second in both the 100 fly (1:01.41) and the 50 fly (28.09). Sne placed third in the 200 fly (2:21.28), ninth in the 50 free (26.42), and 15th in the 100 free (58.21). Doty captured seventh in the 200 IM (2:24.63), eighth in the 200 breaststroke (2:43.43), and 11th in both the 500 breast (35.24) and 100 breast (1:15.25). Kelly took 12th in both the one meter (282.75) and the three meter events (262.40), while Lipsher took 12th in the 1 ,650 freestyle race in 19:22.47. 5 In the relay races? the Dut- ~ chmen were seventh in both the ifi 400 (3:58.80) and 200 (1 :48.67) ·~ freestyle events, eighth in the >- 400 medley relay (4:29;27}, lOth ~ in the 800 free (9:01.25), and 6 12th in th. e 200 medley with a It 2:06.52. An average of 50 swimmers . . Steve H~yes places 5th at Colgate meet. particip~ted in e~ch event. ~- ~ ·._ ... ,_~ .!\\\'· \\Jl\'l.- .,.-_-.,x -.¥.-;;;:.-\\:' ·.'f';.;: :;r-,.4 '/Jl'~~ .::: ;;;. 41 :tr. • ..lf·t:; . ..,,. ~'! .. 1 .1/t, ~ ...... ...,. _ ... - ., ~ ---~,.-..-,.tr ... \.ftll'.._\'<'~.J'- ~-----~~,....-~~~:~'>~ I '•

