• 18?7 CXVII, No. 23 York. May 5, 1988 President Morris Shares Expectations for College Expresses Hop.es for Parents' Weeftend Crossta1k Focuses On h \.... 1. \ t .e Dec1ne of tl1e White Male By CHRISTINE HONG and FIONA SHUKRI E;ditors-fu-Chief present program going through the Academic Affairs Com- By MELISSA STEWART mittee is a' combinatioln of a 'The White Male - A. New · fairly long discusion. American Minority?' .was a Fairly Long? discussion sponsored by .Aware About two or three years. and Cnsstalk on Wednesday Also in '79 about 75% of the April 27 The discussion was student body was from New lead by .a panel consisting of York State, now I would say Carl Friedrich, '90; Denise . roughly 55% are. We have a Feinsod, '39; Profess()F ·:Byron g· more diverse student body and Nichols, pmfessor of p()litical tE more emphasis on minority science; and Dan Schult:z, ~90. · w• · recruitment. Schultz moderated while ~· · What are your future plans for Friedrich presented the pro ~· the college? side of the issue and Feinsod Union College Presidential Poll - General Vote Bush---~ 37:::::37% Jackson 7:;=7o/o Undecided 13=13% ____ __, ,. Other ----------~ 2=2% Poll Determi·nes Dukakis is Presidential Pick for Union Students ~ • We are in the process of argue<! the cons. Professor . ~·· continuing to increase the Nichols provided some By DANIEL J. KENmY vote. Other canclidates made up u. faculty size. This is so im- background into the issae. He Associate News Editor an additional 2% (T:he margin .i!i). portant because it broadens the stated that white male · and ANTHONY MO~ONE of error for the p()ll was plus or . 0 ~ • scope of c~rric1~ar o!fe_rin~s, domination wastheresu.lt oftne Mich?el Dukakis, minus 8.5%). Jo~n ~· Morris, Pre~i~.en~ . :t addl1 new dlVersl.tY Within the . values of the nation's fO\UlQ.ing De:mocratic governor of Coneordiensis p()lled 152 tt · faculty~ and, . enhan.ce.s .. ..the..< ~, .. father;s.~{l're,0f:11i~Eidat\ess;-\ -\Massachusetts ··.·is·· ··Union random tlndergradoate College · How has Union changed since you became president in 19~9? · · That's both hard and easy to answer~ Union h9d just collle· out from a turbulent period in which devisive issues had created tensions and strains within the college. I was ,con- cerned with healing the wounds and I think that objective Was achieved. Facilities needed careful attention because ofsome years of deferred maintenance ... Why was maintenance post- poned? I'm just speculating, but I believe it was due to a difficult period in budgeting. Definite steps have since been taken to improve facilities. - I also saw at the time a need to develop a large faculty. This is beginning to occur. Over the last .several years there has been an increased emphasis on questions which center on, the General Education program. The curricu\wn. . . · he· posed an intere$ting College's pick for tile students at Uni(Jn College and How will the General Education question: ''.Should we he mote Presidency as of the present .. asked, \If the 1988 Pxesidential Program affect tbe. curriculum, impressed with the cha'tlges in time. In a telephone poll con· election were held tomorrow, bl your view?. With the adop- the view that the wliite male ducted by Concordiensis, who W(_)uld yo11 vCJte for?\ tion of · the new General should dominate or with the Dukakis came out. just 5 votes Education Program, we Will see staying in power of the white ahead of Vice-President George new pattern of courses male?\ . Bush, the leading Republican in develQped. Also other Carl Friedrich, who ~laimed the race. curricular issues are being that the white male has be-come Dukakis had the support of developed in the office of the a minority, chose to base his 41% of those polled, Bush 37% · bean. of Faculty. He is very argument on two specific Students who were undecided · concerned with tbe freshman points: affirmative actiori and as of their Presidential can- year ·program which will have college admissions. didate amounted to 13%, while important clir,ricular con- Mfirma,tive action supporters of Jesse Jackson See MORRIS,. p. 3 See WHITE MALES, P- 4 came in fourth wifh 7% of the Former Senator Clark to Lecture, Attend Classes Next Week By DAVID GULLIVER A former U.S. Senator and foreign policy ,expert, who now brings together the country's leading Soviet scholar~ and top politicians . in special con- ferences, will be assisting in several political science classes next week. Richard Clark, senior fellow at Colorado's Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies, began his project a few years. ago to educate Congress's foreign policy experts ()D the latest theories in the academic community. He organizes two such conferences,each year. PrOfessor of PCJtitical Science Charles Gati was a member of one qf the seminars that met last August in Luzerne, Swit- zerland. Senators Sam Nwm and Alan Cranston also atM tended that conference. Clark is visiting Union classes courtesy of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foun- dation. \ the College Center. Keeping with election ;year issues, Clark will t.alk toelasses on topics including money in politics, computer technology in campaigns, and political leadership. He will also address his specialty; u.s.-soviet relations. ' Clark is an experienced voice on campaigns. In additi()Jl to his Senate campaign, he was previously national p()litical ·organizer for Senator RolJeJ\t F. Kennedy's presidential cam- paign. He also helped rn.anage Senator Edward Kennedy's presidential campaignin 198&. Clark was elected as a U.S. Senator from Iowa in Hl72 and was a recognized leader in foreign policy, Congressional and campaign reform, and agriculture. He was reputed to be a highly influential member of the Senate Foreign Relations conimittee. In 1974 Time .. magazine identified Clark as one of its \200 Leaders of the Future.·~ He lost his Senate seat ()n the \coattail effect\ of the 1980 Reagan/Republicanlan(Jslide. U.N. Reform, the Center for Responsive Politics, and the Peace Through Law Education Fund. Clark's exten&i.;e academic background includes a master'.s degree in modern European history and comparative government and a Ph.D in Russian history, both from the University of Iowa. He also served with the U.S. Army in Germany prior to his college education. Dukakis was the clear ·winner among stlldents in the Social Sciences and ·Humanities. However, Ge()rge Bush was the winner among science and engi11eering students. Students were asked ~lso their class year, major, and registration status ;.38% of those polled were not regi::;tered to vote. 25% were regLste~ed with the Republican party, and 19% were Democrats.. Registered Independents numbered 18%. A few trends in tlte polling regarding area ()f study and class year were noted. Michael' Dukakis was the dear winner among students in the Social Sciences, winning 49% of the vote. Dukakis al:lo t()ok the Humanities vote. Eowever, George Bush was the majority winner among st11derrts in the science and engineering disciplines. It was dos~ though- be won by 3 votes among See POLL, p. 3 Clark will also give an open lecture on \Gorbachev's Revolution; Challenges and Opportunities for a New . Ad- ministration\ (ln Thursday night, May 12, at 8:00 p.m. in Currently, Clark is. on the boards of several organi2ati.()ns, including the Campaign for \And the spring comes slowly up this way\ eSamueiTaylor Coleridge , •' . ' ' .. ' ' . ! I ,1 \ ; : ~ 1! ' ··I •,. 1 I . ,. ' .. . ' ... . ' :: ' I 'I i 'l , :I . 'f , I I 1 ·I , i -1 .l ; I 't : l : I I . ~ i

Page 2 * Editor's Note-This article is composed. of ·excerpts from submission as to the Union College Undergraduate Review. It Is hoped that more students are encouraged.to participate in sneb publications as tbe Undergraduate Review. ByETHANSTARR To enlist public support and reaction for his program of restructuring, Gorbachev has encouraged openess (Glasnost) 1nd dialogue. The media leads .he way, discussing new, previously taboo subjects and ,.,oth criticizing and en· couraging criticism from readers. Monologues have been replaced by round~table discussions, interviews, con- versations and reader com· mentary. Glasnost is an im· perative part of perestroika, for CONCORDIENSIS, May· 5, 1988 Gorbachev's Perestroika: Ide.ological or Administrative Change? only by aniinating the people to offer effective criticism, ''based on absolute truth and scrupulous concern for justice\ (US News, 74), can the problems of Soviet society become known and corrected. As Gorbachev states, ''We need glasnost as we need the air,\ (US News, 74). In the implementation of perestroika, Gobachev has effected changes in many areas of the Soviet system of his prede~essors. However, both the role of the Conununist Party and the Communist Party itself remain the .same, in that \The fundamental feature of Party leadership is the fact that this leadership is political,'' (USSR, Today, 1). It is the Party's program, the process of fllrther building socialism and moving toward cornrmmism, that has .changed under Gorbachev. The NEWS ANALYSIS role of the Party in overseeing a new program has not changed. Ideology has not changed under Gorbachev either, but the. basic ideological views llave been expanded on and instituted for the first time. While .glasnost is hailed as a new phenomenon in the United States, and is part of what appears to be a radical expansion ef a previously almost non-existent socl.alist . democracy, Andropov stated in 1983 that ''The attainment of genuine democracy ... has come about in our country,\ (USSR Today, 16). Gorbachev's campaign for increased democracy, criticism, and openness, and the . use of the catchword glasnost to describe this, is an expansion of socialist democracy in order to en· courage the necessary public .support for his new economic programs. . There is also an effort un· derway to change the .econonuc growth process.. Instead of .pursuing extensive growth (the creat·ion of more enterprises), as his predecessors did, Gor- bachev's focus is on intensive growth, or technological im· provement of existing facilities. (Tucker, 180). This is an effort to increase production, automation, and quality. Perhaps the biggest change is the dismantling. of the cen- traliZed management system. Instead of c(jrtcerning itself with operational functions,. such as setting and enforcement of quotas, the central economic man~gement ~uthorities Will concentrate on. economic ·growth strategies · and developing successful economic models. The primary respon· · sibility for management and decision making will be passed on to each enterprise. Go.rbachev' s proposed changes to the economic syst~ are not newtosocialist ideology either. U)te glasnost, the plan to move from a gross-output- oriented economy to a market- oriented economy, with en- terprises. competing against each other for contracts and consumer satisfaction, main., taining profits, and employee wages based oil contract fulfillment, production quality, and profit was also perceived to be a revolutionary i$}eological change. However, these ideas were prop()sed under Brezhnev by a Professor Butenko, who asserted that, in a socialist society, Centrally planned productio.n is built . on commodity ex- change, profit-and-loss ac- counting by enterprises, and the werkers' personal. material stake in the output ·of their labor; d:istribution is ac .. com pUshed thro·ugh . com .. .r:nodity,.mone¥ relations. (USSR . Today, 17) Thus the ideas behind the planned changes do not represent a new · ideological vie:wpoint, they are merely being b:nplernented for the first time as the backbone of Gor- bachev's ,plan to get an ailing economy back on its feet. As demonstrated, Mikhail Gorbachev's program of perestroika ·is not a departure from the ideological principles of socialism and the CommUQitY Party of thE,! So vi~ Union. What ideas appear to he such changes, primarily glasnost and a market-oriented, economy, were part of the socialist ideology under his p~edecessor&. Gorbachev is expanding on some ideol()gical viewpoints and insUtuting others for the first time. Vir· tually all of the changes in the economy which he deems necessary to prevent serious internal crises. The effects of perestroika and attainment ·Of economic impr~ovement remain to be seen, though, and likely will not be seen for many years to come. \'~ ~t.•r.-~. c\slo:.H tO w}\AT -r)-\t: ofF\ItE or T-Ec.\\NOLoGy · l'i)5E,UE'l\\£N\ttAS' Tb S.o..y; THt'(vf sTu1)\ E\) STAR WA l\S~.:T'r\o~oUG~LY. ~\\ t. ~£. ?0 ~>-\ o~:r A 1Ls w\-1\j SiARWA~S Is A FA 1 Lv R e., AN \) \·h'tl rl W\L.t. NEvE.~<. PROvl~E vou.R GONNA EE t-\t..V<r: i\\A\ L\llERI\1.. RE?o.Rl~ lH\5 IS C\)R NAT\ONI\L SfcURJTY ATsl/t I<E. ~ . d l'lofli.- .. l'tofHIN G, '/o IJ K 'No'iiJ 'WE f'~oBAaL)' COULD F'll'ID somE BfTTER usE / Get a clue. Get an opinion. Read Concordiensis News Analysis Page Tvvo. vs W\T'It AN I M ?e. N E. I RAs Lr.. D£ E.!J II WRUC .. Will Air A De- bate Featuring Candidates For Student J:c.,orum Presi- dent-And Jun- ior Class Trustee This Evening At 9:00P.M. 89.7 FM \ RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS YOUR.FIRST STEP TOWARD SUCCESS IS. THE ONE YOU COU!LD TAKE THIS SUMMER. Army ROTC Camp Challenge. It's exciting and it may be your last opportunity to grad~ uate with an Army Officer's commission. · fO-R fffAT P10tJFf.\ Find Out More Contact: A.RMYBOTC THE SMARTEST COLLEGE C01JRSE YOU CAN TAKE. Cpt. Russe'lfA~· Rosati (518) 783-2571 '.... I .I • '. '

I ,I , CONCORDJBNSIS, May 5, 1988 Env-ironmental Celebration Coming on May 22 'Union Stud·ent Wins ·Prestigious Harry S. .. ' ByJ~MANLV, numb,er of campus' beautification projects that Truman Foundation Scholars·hip By EL:JZA:BETHBERLINER Earth Day, it is a reality, ~nd require the cooperation and aid as a member of this p· lanet you · ·of t-he· enti're college th·at w1\ll go · · · . · -· · · · · There are few individuals_ , are encouraged to tike part. On on aU week. who when faced With_ a. t_ he week starting Monday, May E th D · h 1 h I ar - · ay ts,. _ owever, a so a seeinl. ·n. glv insurmount. able · l6t ·, Union College wil 'hold its 1 b ti f 1 t d \ first environmental· awareness ce · e ra · on ° · our P ane an task, wiU surge ahead with · event since the demise of the the beautiful things. it provides fierce dete:rt:nination to prove · · Environmental Alliance a .few us with. SatWiday night will their ability. There are even .. featur~, weather pemritting, fewer wilo then succeed·. years ago. Earth Day is an th f' t 1 1 b . . . e ·. 1rs artnua · campus s eep- Sophoillor'_ e Scharn Ro_ bi'_n_son am itums pr()J'ect tboug_ht elf by . t · J k • G d A on m ac son .s - ar ens. ha. s doneJ'ust that .. a small group of concerned · · · b b 'II f n· sunrise rune· w1 o ·ow so _ Las. t ye\.r she entered· U· ·nt'on· students who are ·quickly th- t · · 11· fill · b n· \' · a -we can a_ · .. · cJur · e 1es ·,_ College undertheAOPprogram· becoming a large organized \th th f d f d f · Wl · • · e ·. oo . rom our goo . · . and tllllled' her dreams of 'orce. The .purpose of Earth earth. Entertainers in the form prof. essional: tenniS to reali_'ti\es· · Day is to ·raise <>Uf awareness of f · 1 1 f. lk. · · · · d o oca . o. singers an of acadellli.cs. Now she'.s one of r the planet we live on, and the drummers will be on hand on · 105 nationwide winners of the , great ·responsibility and care s d t 1 d · th · that is required .frcni each one funti ~Yt. 0 cone u e e illustrious Harry S. Truman : · es VJies. Foundation Scholarshi_p,· .an· · .· of us if we are to continue to reap the ·benefits from the Sound like fun? We think so, award that amounts to $28;000 . Earththatweno\.venjoy. and it's ,important as well, .it over her next two years at. · ultimately formulating her own opini9ns. Her poise and intellect were then put tp test in the semi~final round held' at New York University, dudng which she was intervi~wed by· a panel of .six. or seven members. This weekend . sbe will travel to Spanning tlle course ·()f the really is. This is not a .political · Union alld .then. .into graduate week Will be a series of ~events campaign or a moral agenda, school. constructed towards this goal. but a day to remember that we . Professor . Tidmarch, . ~ Eartn,Speak will be a. lecture all share the same planet,. and chairman of . the Political series on various ·concerns and we are. no good to anybody Science Program here at Union, outlooks on the environment, without it. So no matter who you was her advisor and first ex- and will most likely kkk off the are take an interest in y 0 ur plored the possibility of her week. Other plans include a Earth and plan to do something applicatioru.. Asked for com .. major recycling drive aimed at nice for your planet on May ment, lle .stated, \Scharn was a b: =>· g 0 0 :c a.. reusing the precious materials, 22. If you have any ideas, bit hesitant about going for the · Missouri where she will be like paper and alutnninwn, ~hat ·comments, suggestions or just scholar.sllip at first, :but I honored in the national awards we throw away every day. A support please attend the Earth persuaded her that she had a ceremony. night time star watch and Day meeting at the College shot at it if she would devote candle light walk will lead the Center this Thursday at five, or serious ·effort to the application Pursuing a career in Law, Scharn h~s always sought to · c 1 process.\ . way into Sun/Earth Day the get m touch with Anne a,r 346- 22nd. In addition there will be a 3943. The fkst stage of the . ·battle injustice whenever it · became apparent. She par- procedure asked for three ticipates in MASS, a group of PoiJ Picks D·ukakis. · ~~~c~tutoen;~fr~ ~~::lfiU:e:b~~ C t . d f Now .she is one of 105 others in need. Recently, they ·on tnue rom page 1 showingwith18%. nationwide winners • • • have raised money ·for the engineering undergraduates, On the whole, the campus. this weekend, she will be United Negro College Fund, and other stu.dents with majors seems well~in{ormed and well- honored in the national visited retirement homes, and ·in the sciences. Students in the prepared for the Presidential awards ceremony. worked in cooperation-With l3ig . scienc~ also tee«irded the election. There were ·few · ' ' · ·Brothers and··· Sisters 'in largest :undeci<le!l; i~1~ -of the · · \gosb ... who's ruiming~;.t,. _recreational , and aca~~mic fields, 29% of those polled in the ·responses. The undecided vote' letters <if reco~enda'tio~; projects. . . various science fields. was· attributed by some accompani-ed by three essays. Professor Tidtriarch ex- For the freshman. class, respondents to displeasure with Within one of these, she ad- pressed pride in Scharn's ac- Governor Dukakis defeated all . the leading candidates. In dressed the concern of af- complishment, and hopes that Vice-President Bush hy a single this case then, students are firmative action after con- her success will prompt other vote. The undecideds ran third, responding by party affiliation. versing with several professors students to apply for the and Jackso11 tied other· can- The. . \other\ candidates and family members, scholarship in the future. didates. Forth~ sophomore and · category included ·Bob Dole, - · r------.....;....._ _ __.. ____________ __, senior classes, the pattern was · Paul Sim()n, and Gun1by. relatively the same, with the To do away with the problem exception of the Jesse Jackson of stud~nts not being registered, voting~ Jackson received no Conco:r~ie11sls is sponsoring a votes from the Qlass· of 1990;. and· . Voter Registratton Table for the just one from the s'eniors. In the · . ·states of Connecticut, New junior year voting, Bush was Jersey, New York, and Ver- the victor, receiving 38% of the mont today (Thursday, May 5) vote. Dukakis placed second, in the college Center from 10:30- but Jackso11 made a strong 3:00p.m. M O·TH,E R' S D GET THE F4CTS ON THE' CIA -Admiral Stansfield Turner, DCI in the Carter Administration, will speak during Parents' Weekend. The event will be held in Memorial Chapel at 8 p.m. on May 6. Tickets are $3 and are on sale at the College Center box office. \ -·John Stockwell, former top-level CIA offi~ial and critic of the Agency , will speak on May 17 at 7:30 in the Coliege Center. Botll Speakers Presented by the Spemkers Forum Page 3 Morris Explai,ns Problem About Nott Restoration Continued from page 1 sequences. I think that this office has a .great deal of potential, excitement. We noticed in this year's budgetj there is an allocation of funds for faculty beyond their actual salaries. We are in the first year of a three year program to upgrade salaries across the board. Right now our faculty pay is alright, but we aim to bring the faculty's salaries · up to the standard of other colleges of our sort. We want to be in the top rank of pay. What .kind of emphasis does the College put . on its faculty to achieve outside of the classroom? The Faculty Review Board takes three things into account when reviewing faculty members for tenureship. They are Scholarship, Teaching, and Community Service. A faculty member has to do very well both in scholarship and in the classroom. In other words we want to have a faculty that is consistently working in the field of discipline as well as pays strong attention to the classroom. There is some room for balance. But in no case should we accept'poor teaching skills. On the other hand, poor scholarship is not acceptable. Are you happy with faculty scbolarshtpatUnion?. I think,. , that tlte: . Faculty Review Board does a very good job reviewing and evaluating dossiers of 'faculty. I have no complaints. What are the plans for renovation of the Nott Memorial? There are currently two facilities we have to deal with the renovations of-the Nott, and the Library. We are now working on ways in which to procure funds. The natural date for the · renovation of the Nott to be completed would be the bicentennial. (1995). . There is a lot of debate over what the Nott should be used for. The Nott performs very well as a theater in the round and it has a place within the .facilities. We need a theater. To take the theater out of the Nott would be to add five million plus to any reparations to the N ott. However, the view of some people is that we should make the Nott into a re-creation of its original status and turn it into a handsome museum or gallery. Recognizant of the fact that it should not take up too much of the college's resources, See PRESIDENT, p. 4 rTlle Hair Stud:io 374-0351 557 Nett St. l\lothe!tS <\tt> very special people and you can show her how much she's ·lovcdby bril1!-Jin0 ht?r to the fiitcst ~!OTHER'S DAY BRUNCH in the Capitol Distric.:t Sct'\li-t19 from I I :00 A.M. to 4!00 P.l'v1. Hair and Tanning Studio FOit RESI~RVATIONS CAI,L 3'70-7151 Adults $1:H>5 •Senior Citizens $12;~>5 Children Under 12 $7.H5 • ·Children Un(l~r;,- FlU:~ She'll Love You tor It. RAMADA~ .INN 4:10 Noll Srr~eL Sch!'nect.<\!ly, NY 12~0K $38Perm Special Unisex, Wal·k-lns Welcome $50ffAll Cuts $25for25 • • •ts t;a:nmngVJSl or$1 per visit I ;) .I ' ' •,,, .I I ! ,\ I

' .-., ,.. , -., r.-' • r-. •, Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, . Ma)' 5,. 19811 . \The Art and s,clence of Teaching\ Le,cture· Series Preludes F.uture U:nior1 Teachin·g Program By 'LORlR·ICHARD experience throughout the training program. ·m addition, research and team~teaching models will be put into action at the undergraduate and graduate Levels. As a prelude to next year's ;series took place ·on Friday, Apr:il29 and featured Pr. Greta Dershimer of ·the Division for the Study of 1.'Eae:bin·g at Syracuse University. Dr. This fall, Union will introduce its new Educational Studies Program. After mt:mh deliberation, a rester of courses has been d~veloped for the program, which will com- plement the strong liberal arts · curriculwn already in .place at · Dershimer discusf;ed resear.ch ' and techniques fol' increasing stu<lents' concept dl!veleprnent. The aim of tbe lecture • The final pr,ogi'am in the •. is to provide new series Will be cond:11cted by Or. Union. In the attempt to create·such a balance Janet McDonald, information on the art Kevin Ry11n ·of the BOsten and· craft of te.a.chin .. g. at University School of. EducatiQn, and will take placE. on Frid~y. Friedrich and Feinsod debate white male minority with ril<Odetator • Schultz and Professor Nichols. Director of Educational· · both the college and · . May 13. This fina~ sem~ar Will s.e.condary level. · examine research. oil teacher Studies1 bas been meeting with a. select · group of secondary ;;;;:iii;;;;;;;;;;=;.;;:;:=:=:;;;;;;;;;ii;;;;;; · Q.eyelQpment ant.l.cf.lange. The seminars ·are <~Pert· to all area teachers andi. tbe general public, and refreshments will be served prior to.ea-()h talk .. White Males: A New American MinoritY.? school teachers in tbe capital . , fUll implementation of Union's district. Together with Union teaching program,, a lecture facultyfromthedepartmentsof series entitled \The. Art and HistorY, English, ·Psychology, Sci~nce ·of Teachi'ng '' is Math, Modem La!).guages, ~d currently being held on Union's th~ Scienc~s, McDonald and campus. The aim ofthe lectures local .secondary schoolteachers .. iS to ·gene~ ate enthusiasm, that while it isgener.al•y untrue bave developed a Teacher •· <:lttiosity, and to provide new· that ''lessqualified:\ nlinorities · -Certification .program. This. information on the art and craft receive jobs mer 1 'more · program will place emphasis on of teaching. at bOth· the college qualified\ White males, there content within c. .major area of and seeondary..:scbool level. Anyone intereste!llti )earning .more a'bout thE' new un- derg,raduate ·oL'\ · gr·aduate teacher educatioll progpam at Union should contllct Director Janet McDonal:d.atthe Office of Graduate and Continuing~ Studies inWellSH()tE.Se. . c~mtinued from page 1 legislation, passed in the 196()'s, attempted to end discrimination in the work place as well as in schools. While it set no quota, it en- couraged corporations to set goals and time tables for hiring members of minority groups. Friedrich claimed that it has caused reverse discrimination. He feels that such legislation is· no longer necessary and said it now functions as a means for \minority revenge.\ He argued that in some cases a less qualified minority . would be hired over a white male who is better qualified for the job. He feels that college admissions also reflect this trend. are cases in which this ;does .study combined with· internship The second program in this occur, ThGse cases are ones· in .,.......,_ ........ ...___.._......_ ______ _..__ ....... .....,.........._~ ......... -----....-----...-;..;....-...,_........,....,.;._ ------_ ....... :..._,._...__ ~~~~t~~ea~~o~~~~a~ 0 ~::; • President ,M·orris Restore \the ·Nott them more suitaQle for the job. 6 . - ( 'l·t · For example, it ha~s. been ·. ·X .. ·P .. · resses- Vlew· ·O·n. . ·ommt: ee . proven that wom.en are S ·h d I ·E· f naturally better in some ; c· t. F t It o· 'b. c e u es ! ven ·S Opposing him was Denise Fei~sod who feels that white males are .still a dominant force in American· society. As an example, she cited business clothing fashion. Women in high business positions are expected to wear suits consisting of a skirt and a blazer. This reflects the standard male business suit. It is still a man's world, aspects of police \Vork than· .. ·Urren· • ·· _ra ern1 •y . ·.·. ·e · :ate:. men. As .far as college admissions •. Continued· from page -3 students. Funding for.a, building are concerned, several · restoration is necessary. is being aided by a donor, we members of the audience need to maintain the possibility Po inted ou· t that :manu ad- . What about the renovations of \ .the library? · of re-naming it. It's my mission procedures, suc!l as The expected date of com· responsibility to ·maintain that SAT's, are geared towBrd white pletion of restoration of the th~ college exists for the future. males. Feinsod stated that library depends on funding. We Traditions are formed, and you whJ¥te 1 males may . ~ete are running ou~ . of space on are in the position to see one t. emse ves as , a IIll.nCm y · campus. Expanding the present being formed. because they are no longer as · building would require building How do you. feel about the · powerful as they oiLce were· on to the tennis courts and controversy over the role of However, they continue to have moving them elsewhere. . fraternities and their flaws and an wifair proportion of power in Students have shown concern virtues? American society. Eventually . . th · f th Any debate is very healthy. they will become eq11ais to other over e renammg 0 e College Center. The focus of the issue is groups, .. but they will·aever be a Students here pre-1970 diversity. It is· Import~nt that minority in American society· wouldn't know what we. are thefraternitiesareawareofthe , and are certainly net at the talking about. The 'Carnegie' ,_ issues being raised and take ·present time. name is dear to a small group of them very seriously· ~----......--------------------..,.._--------------\--n. Do you have any message to pare11ts this weekend? she claimed. She also stated Outstanding College Students Of America I hope that the parents enjoy their visits and take a look at what we're doing and particular in all the events designed to Restore. the Nott is taking action again tod~y by holding a press conferepce at 3 pm ~t CC409 to kick off thEirupcoming events as w~U as make com- ments on actlons taken so far dealing . with the Nott Memorial. · Upcoming events : They are presenting a slide presentation on the Nott Memorial deterioration on Saturday at 10 . am and-3 pm atSo!(JialSCi.ences. , They are sp()nsorijlg a lecture · by Professor CarrGeorge on the significance of . the Nott • Memorial on. Mond11y at 3 pm at ' CC409. And they ueholding an ; Open Forumto ha-v:.e discussion • on the· future use:;· of the Nott • Memorial on Tuesliay at a.pm at ' CC410. They are planning to have Mr.. Mesick, the architect in ·charge of the 197~ Histcui(! Stru~ture ~eport, Professpr Carl George,. aiid possibly ~other guest to join Keith Scholarship Program NEWS RE.LEASE help them see the campus. It is €: good opportunity for ~hem come to. understand the place where their daughters and sons , live and learn. I hope that we're able to do a good· job to help . l:Bemis, Restore_ The Nott President, on the panel to bav.e a full discussion af. the campus community on the:future qse of the Nott Memoriat d • OCSA is proud to announce the two $5000 Scholarship award win!lers for 1987-88 are Ms. Kathy N. Wright, Michigan State University; and Mr. Scott A. ·Miller, Massachusetts Institut.e of Technology. These two Out- standing Academians were selected from 42,000 applicants because of their outstanding achievements, ideals, and ,goals. Note: See attached Biogra~ phies of each Scholarship recipient. . \\ Outstanding College Stw;lents of America (OCSA) is a n?tional organiza- tion whose purpose is to highlight the acltievements of outstanding students. OCSA publishes annually the Outstanding College Students of America Directory which contains the names and biographies of students who have a high degree of excellence in scholarly and e:x.tra~urricular activities. This directory represents a new concept in the effective referencing of students . ' from distinguished colleges and universities throughout the nation. Unlike other directories,. the listing in the OC.SA directory is organized by field of study, a feature which makes it a powerful tool for colleges, universities and corporations in supplementing their standard recruiting efforts. The 1987-88 Directory wiH be distributed during April, 1988. OCSA Scholarships awards will be increased from TWO $5000.00 scholar- ships in 1987 to TEN $2000.00 scholarships in 1988. The scholarships will be awarded tp OCSA student members for outstanding achievements. For ' further information please contact Mr. John Templeton at 202-'861-0003. ~ them understand · Union A:ll are . invit~d and en- couraged to attend these eve~ts. College. t---~\~:·.- L--- . ...... '\\ -· . \'-.. ... \ : \, '. I

. I I -- - . - IN HONOR O,F THE NOVEMBER ·IPIRIE§IIIIDIEWlrllAJL JIJ1IECC1riT@N~ . 0 .. (j . Foutidei[,~ 'f!~lf< College 1877 - ·'!:..(tAt'' Is spo,nsoring a: W@lrJEffi ffiJE ((;}IT§ lrffi& lriT CO) N 1rAIB3J1JE for the states of: CONNECTICUT NEW. JERSEY NEW YORK VERMONT Absentee ballot applications will also be available ·· Thursday, May 5 10:30 a.m.-3:00p.m. ' in the College . Center Atrium Page 5

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May. 5, 1988 FEATURES Talk of 'The Town Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger C~ollcordiensi's recently asked: ''Do you think that the white male is the new m.inority?\ ~·: \No I don't think it's come to that yet. But it is kind of annoying to think that underqualified people may be getting jobs just to fit certaiA quotas.\ Doug Fischer '91 \l think that white men are in the best position to get jobs. However, that doesn't mean that I agree with it.\ · Ellen Beyda '90 The rain continued for hours . The game continued for hours ... ., \No not by a ion~, long shot. Very cl~arly, white males still hold significant numbers of key positions in our society, though opportunities .for others will continue to increase.\ Joseph Mammola Dean of Stu~ents But Fun Was Had During the Delta Phi & Phi Beta Volleybal'l Marathon By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor During the D-Elti and Gamma Phl Beta volleyball marathon. You may have heard the music coming from D Phi this past Saturday. Although the weat~er was grim, spirits were cr w LL. ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 b :c a.. high as Gamma Phi Beta and Delta Phi hosted a volleyball marathon to raise money for a local child's kidney dialysis machine. Caleb Snyder, a six-year-old boy from South Glenn Falls, has a rare kidney disease called Nyphrodic Syndrome, a disease which affects 1 out of 100,000 Caleb Snyder, a six year oid boy from S. Glenns Falls, needs a kidrtey dialysis machine. Delta Phi and Gamma Phi Beta raised money through a volleyball marathon this pa.st Saturday. children. He will eventually have complete failure of his kidneys but until then or until he finds a donor he will need to be placed on a kidney dialysis machine. Unfortunately the Snyder's health insurance does not cover the expenses for treatment, which amounts to approximately $400,()()0. Gamma Phi Beta and Delta Phi were informed ()f Caleb's predicament thi\ongb Nancy Schultz and Mike Chase, who are both friends of the Snyaer family. In order to raise money to help Caleb, both Gamma · Phi and D Phi solicited donations door-to-door and sold volleyball marathon t-shirts. Those who participated in the marathon were obligated t10 either gain funds from sponsors or throUgh selling t-shirts. Through these efforts they were able to raise close to $1,000. The volleyball marathon began under grey skies at 8:00- Saturday morning. Teams continued to play unti18 :00 that evening. Althougb it was cold and we only caught occasional glimpses of the sun, the rain was refreshing, the game was fun, the music blared, there was a fire for barbecu>e close by, and a good time was had by alL For those Who would still like to help Caleb and bis family, contributions can be sent to: Caleb Snyder Fund, South Glenn Falls United Methodist Church, Maplewood Pkwy., South Glenn Fans, N.Y. 12803. If anyone would like to bqy a t-shirt, they are $6. Call Mike Chase at 372-431(). Senioritis ByLEATAJACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. + Order cap & gown at the bookstore within the week! + Check with Mrs. Marra about graduation an- nouncements. +Vote tomorrow for Student Trulltees. Do you realize we are the last clua to remember: '!be Pub when it was a pub and not a food court. SbDar cookies When they were Pub cookies. Social Sciences when the first floor looked like the first floor of Humanities. Do yoll remember why you came to Union College? Was it because parents pushed you to come here? It's reputation? location? size? because they acc~pted you? Do you remember what you expected out of here? Experience? Education? . exposure? enlightenment? Did yoll even know what to expect?- It is said that college .iS ''the best years of our lives;\ the best of studying, partying, loving, tbinklng, .•• the best of living. Has it beeB? Did you get the best grades you could? Was your thesis or research as in- depth as you waated? Did you go out and meet people? Make any lasting friendships? Wel'e you a positive faetor .in anyone else's life here? Reflect on thl:i for just a minute. (This is not meant to be dept•essing.) Now, what do you expect out of whatever it is you are doing after JWte? Do you even. know what to elq)ect? No regi.'et!J for the P.liSt - a better attitude toward the ftature. Input for this ·mlllttlli is welcome. · \No the wt11te male is not the new ·minority. They have always been at at:l advantage. Look around you and see Who has always had the upper hand, then ask the question again.\ Lauren Evans '88 \NUmbers wise no. As far as a group being discriminated against, as far as jobs, etc. maybe.\ Seth Katz. •go Grinch Tak.es Spring By JIM MANLY Reporter's Note : The following article was written at the tender age of 18, ·and prillted In the AprD 18, 19B5 edi~oo of the Concordiensis. Bei'Dg a freshman, and thereby eager to please,. I took it upon mys4jU to record the bizarre ~Cir­ cumstances surrounding that spring term. Nl)w, 11ome three years 18ter, I mllSt lll'ge the younger members of ibis · college to community to dig at the causes bebind this latest outrage of five frozen week$ iD. Schenectady. To assist . in this cause I have had this ar.ticle republi~hed so that the tlire .offenses of years gott~ by will be known. As a senior my patien.ce grows bi.cteasingly thin fiJr a solUtion, and my apathy to do anything about i1 is steaOfast. And if I don't leave this scllool with a tan .I will bl10w up ib.at sorry excuse of a college ce11ter that you little ptmks love S€l~oo much! Spring term: the very mention of it brings on thou~hts of sunburns and exteaded periods of Wlconsciousness. Yet to a group of lofty ada ministrators it is a nightmare, one they are prepared to rectify at any cost tothe college and the student. For they hope to cl.\eate an environment of work ill the midst of sun and warmth. This condition is desired from students Who have just.spent ten weeks of pure arctic hell in the gale wind capital of the W()ild, Schenectady, N.Y. These ad- ministrators actually felt at one Ume that it was possible for a student to ignore pleasures of the flesh in order to expand his mental horizons. Yet the strength of a student to be able to utter those famous five words, \Ah I'll blQw it off,\ is remarkable. Besides, \I can always study after a few beers Ul ·< ~ ~ LL 0 ::i ~ § ~ c Cl· ~ ; ::J ui w ~ w ~ ~ in the sun.\ . The situation, however, finally became epidemic .and those evil, dark-sUited men in their alr-conditioned offices finally acted. These actions were so very powerful: to not only deny the student of spring, but the knowledge of . its exist.ence. Unfortunately for the btudents' sake, these men have done some remarkable work in this respect. The administration, in one of their most devio!lS ploys, t()ok it on themselves to destroy spring; For during our so-caUed spring break they gathered a groupof unsuspecting engineers to create the world's largest frozen vacuum around the campus. This accomplishe(i, the administrators felt safe huddled around their heaters, and patiently waited for our return. They were not disappointed, for ·students were welcomed to sub- arctic conditions upon arrival. This cold raged on for another two weeks to which the ad· ministration basked in their success. Yet there was an ethic in these students that no one had ev- er perceived. A rem emberance of times gone by when shorts were worn without snow boots. These crazed individuals braved these sub-arctic conditions in the hope for spring. Yet the effect was disastrous for the students. In sum, thousands of gallons of beer frozen solid, frostbitten yoWlg students stuck to metal lawn chairs, broken fingers ( the result of lead weighted frozen softballs and frisbees) and a perception of lost hope. The men in their dark suits revelled in their glory, they felt victory at hand. But all was not well', the school received its first elec- trical bill since the freezer installation. The amount has Continued on page 7 ~. '80s youth~ · gree·dy or just scared? • --

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 FEATURES Talk of The Town Photos and Interviews by Stan Kitzinger Concordiensis recently asked: \Do you think that the white male is the new minorit_y?\ \No I don't think it's come to that yet. But it is kind of annoying to think that underqualified people rnay be getting jobs just to fit certain quotas.\ Doug Fischer '91 \I think that white men are in the best position to get jobs. However, that doesn't mean that I agree with it.\ Ellen Beyda '90 \No not by a long, long shot Very clearly, white males still hold significant numbers of key positions in our society, though opportunities for others will continue to increase.\ Joseph Mammol a Dean of Students \No the White male is not the new minority. They have always been at an advantage. Look around you and see who has always had the upper hand, then ask the question again.\ Lauren Evans '88 \Numbers wise no. As far as a group being discriminated against, as far as jobs, etc. maybe.\ Seth Katz '90 The rain continued for hours . The game continued for hours .. Grinch Takes Spring But Fun Was Had During the Delta Phi & Phi Beta Volleyball Marathon By JIM MANLY Reporter's Note: The following article was written at the tender age of 18, and printed in the April 18, 1985 edition of the Concordie11sis. Being a freshman, and tb.ereby eager to please, I took it upon myself to record the bizarre cir- cumstances surrounding that spring term. Now, some three years later, I must urge the younger members of this college to community to dig at the causes behind this latest outrage of five frozen weeks in Schenectady. TIJ assist in this cause I bave had this article republished so that the dire offenses of years gone by will be known. As a senior my patience grows increasingly thin for a solution, and my apathy to do anything about it is steadfast. And if I don't leave this school with a tan I will blow up that sorry excuse of a college center that you little punks love soooo much! By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Edit~Jr During the D-Phi and Gamma Phi Beta volleyball marathon. You may have heard the music coming from D Phi this past Saturday. Although the weather was grim, spirits were 0:: LI.J '\'- u... ~ (fJ z <! (fJ ::::J (fJ >- CIJ § I a.. high as Gamma Phi Beta and Delta Phi hosted a volleyball marathon to raise money for a local child's kidney dialysis machine. Caleb Snyder, a six-year-old boy from South Glenn Falls, has a rare kidney disease called Nyphrodic Syndrome, a disease which affects 1 out of 100,000 Caleb Snyder, a si)( year old boy from S. Glenns Falls, needs a kidney dialysis machine. Delta Phi and Gamma Phi Beta raised money through a volleyball marathon this past Saturday. children. He will eventually have complete failure of his kidneys but until then or until he finds a donor he will need to be placed on a kidney dialysis machine. Unfortunately the Snyder's health insurance d>Oes not cover the ex:penses for treatment, which amounts to approximately $400,000. Gamma Phi Beta and Delta Phi were informed of Caleb's predicament through Nancy Schultz and Mike Chase, who are both friends of the Sny'{).er family. In order to raise money to help Caleb, both Gamma Phi and D Phi solicited donatbons door-to-door and sold volleyi:Jall marathon t-shirts. Those who participated in the marat:hon were obligated to either gain funds from sponsors or through selling t-shirts. Through tbese efforts they were able to raise close to $1,000. The volleyball marathon began under grey skies at 8:00- Saturday morning. Teams continued to play until 8:00 that evening. Although it was ~Cold and we only caught occasional glimpses of the sun, the rain was refreshing, the game was fun, the music blared, there was a fire for barbecue close by, and a good time was had by all. For those who would still like to help Caleb and his family, contributions can be sent to: Caleb Snyder Fund, South Glenn Falls United MethGJdist Church, Maplewood Pkwy., South Glenn Falls, N.Y. 1:2803. If anyone would like to b11y a tMshirt, they are $6. Call Mike Chase at 372-4310. Spring term: the very mention of it brings on thoughts of sun burns and extended periods of unconsciousness. Yet to a group of lofty ad- ministrators it is a nightmare, one they are prepared to rectify at any cost to the college and the student. For they hope to create an environment of work in the midst of sun and warmth. This condition is desired from students who have just spent ten weeks of pure arctic hell in the gale wind capital of the world, Schenectady, N.Y. These ad- ministrators actually felt at one time that it was possible for a student to ignore pleasures of the flesh in order to expand his mental horizons. Yet the strength of a student to be able to utter those famous five words, \.Ah I'll blow it off,\ is remarkable. Besides, \I can always study after a few beers Senioritis (J) <( Ul ~ ~ u.. 0 ByLEATAJACKSON Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88. + Order cap & goWll at the bookstore within the week! + Check with Mrs. Marra about graduation an- nouncements. +Vote tomorrow for Student 'I'ruBtees. were Pub cookies. S()cial Sciences when the first flm»r looked like the first floor of Humanities. Do you remember why you came to Union College? Was it because parents pushed you to come here? It's reputation? location? size? because they accepted you? Do you remember what you expected out .of here? Experience? Education? exposure? enlightenment? Did you even know what to expect? ::i living. Has it been? Did you get the best grades you could? Was your thesis or research as in- depth as you wanted? Did yoll ~ go out and meet people? Make :t any lasting friendships? Were 0 you a positive factor in anyrone . ~ else's life here? c: Reflect on this for jus:t a ~ minute. (This is not meant t11 be :::~ in the sun.\ The situation, however, finaHy became epidemic and these evil, dark-suited men in their air-conditioned offices finally acted. These actions were so very powerful: to not only deny the student of spring, but the knowledge of its existence. Unfortunately for the ~iudents' sake, these men have done some remarkable work in this respect. The administration, in one of their most devious ploys, took it on themselves to destroy spring. For during our so-called spring break they gathered a group of unsuspecting engineers to create the world's largest frozen vacuum around the campus. This accomplished, the administrators felt safe huddled around their heaters, and patiently waited for our return. They were not disappointed, for students were welcomed to sub- arctic conditions upon arrival. This cold raged on for another two weeks to which the ad- ministration basked in their success. Yet there was an ethic in these studentstilat no one had ev- er perceived. A rem emberance of times gone by when shorts were worn without snow boots. These crazed individuals braved these sub-arctic conditions in the hope for spring. Yet the effect was disastrous for the students. In sum, thousands of gallons of beer frozen solid, frostbitten young students stuck to metal lawn chairs, broken fingers ( the result of lead weighted frozen softballs and frisbees) and a perception of lost hope. The men in their dark suits revelled in their glory, they felt victory at hand. But all wa;s not well, the school received its first elec- trical bill since the freezer installation. The amount has Cor~tinued on page 7 Do you realize we are the last clua to remember: The Pub when it was a pub and not a food court. It is said that college is \the best years of our lives;\ the best of studying, partying, loving, thinking, . •. the best of depressing.) Now, what d() you ffi expect out of whatever it is you ~ are doing after JW1e? Do you even know what to expect? No regrets for the past - a better attitude toward the future. Input for this colUDUl is welcome. '80s youth: greedy or just scared? Skellar cookies wllen they l I ;, l f

• CONCORDIENSJS, May .5, 1988 Page 7 FEATURES Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe By AN:DREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS The Executive Suite For those looking for a place to take their parents to eat; The Executive Suite is a g.ood choice. In proximity to UniOn, it offers quality food at a reasonable .price, above average service, and a com- fortable atmoSphere. This week we were blessed with the presence of a world renowned culinary expert and part-time political scientist, Professor T. The Professor brings to Schenectady a finely honed palate, cultivated in the great Mid· West. Tht three of us met in the bar room and then moved to the lr shaped dining area. We noticed that it had been redone since our last visit. The decor is characterized by soft green and mauve. colors, ftowery , pain- tings, and dim lighting. The Reported fro$ The National Review It's college admissions time again, and Richard Lederer of St. Paul's School has been collecting some choice items from student application forms. One student wrote, \I am in the mist of choosing colleges/' Other collector'sitems: -\If there was a .single word to describe me,tbat word would bave to be 'profectionist '.\ ... :.-''1 was abducted into the National H()nor Society.\ -\I function well as an in- dividual and as a group/' -\I want to fully bilingual in three or more languages.\ -\1 proliferate with English courses.\ _:_\Needles to say ... \ -\Vietnam was an exuberant price to pay for Grinch Continued from page 6 overall effect is very pleasant, but nothing special. For starters,. I had the Tor· tellini Daniel, at $4.95. It was a large and very filling mixture of tortel.Uni, mushrooms, and bits of lobster, an in a creamy ,sauce .. Altbough the cream sauce was a bi.t thin, and there were too many mushrooms and not enough lobster, the dish was still very pleasing .. Robe chose the Fettuccine Carbonara, a large bowl of fettuccine with bacon, heavy cream and Romano chee(e sauce. It was very heavy, ·but thoroughly enjoyable, witb just the right touch of black pepper. Tne Professor liked his onion sciup, but after a wllile ,the tremen- dous amou11t of cheese diminished llis -overall im- pression of it and ~ept him from finishing it. . vie all chose. the tossed salad over the spinach salad. Each was a large and fresh mixture of lettuce, mushrooms, somnolence.\ .,......'ii am>a freshman at MoUnt Holyoke <College. I am con- sidering going to Bates College for a year and then possibly trans~erring. I applied as an undergraduate and was weight- listed.\ Maybe, pac:e Bloom & Ben- nett, it's just too late. never been det-ermi.Jled but if was high enough that even ()ut tuition couldn't cover it (which is remarkable in itself). The administration .froze: what could possibly be done to stop these sun-starved maniacs? Their first response was a senseless pattern of abslird rules aimed at ending any social, or for that matter, anti,. social activities. From rules banning music t() a concealed attempt to build a dome for the football field extending over all of the Capital District area. This is where the true grit ()f authors, Dr .. Seuss. In his lesser Union students really shone ~own ·sequel ''The Grinch that through. All the effoJ1;s of ,the st()le Spring;,\ he states (or administration fell to failure. close to it) '\It wasn't sun, ,OP These foiled attempts only wear, frisbee,or beer. It wasn't resulted in one .tbing, a greater sand, warmth, tans or cheer. determination of students to No, it was none of these at all. In remain apathetic, a truly ad- fact, it was a desire to do mirable quality. The sight of nothing at all.\ Ami so it is students lazing abc>ut in the SlUl rumored that the ad- is one that renews hope in the / ministrati()n's heart shrunk two American way. This epis()de of sizes that <lay! So let \lS all triumph is one that c~ot help beware Df what they have in but remind me<lf a quote from ·store .for us next; until then, one of America's · greatest enjoy the waunth while it lasts. LO·OK FOR THE FINAL ·EXAM SCHEDULE IN THE INSERTI OR DON'T'! cucumbers, and a large cherry tomato. Robe, who bas d.if• ficulty with overflowing salad bowls, was especially pleased with the large plates the salads were served on. Everyone found a choice he liked from the carousel of homemade dressings. The Walnut Cran- berry Vinagrette that Robe and I had was tmique, sweet and delicious. Professor Twas very pleased with his bacon- horseradish dressing. In ad· dition, I sampled the bleu cheese dressing, Which was robust and enjoyable. ,...._ From the fairly straight- forward menu of chicken,. veal, pasta, beef and seaf()od choices, the Professor ordered Veal Parmigiana, for $10.50. He found it a decent entree, but certainly not up to his Mid- Western standards. The serving was generous, however, and he enjoyed his choices of broccoli and oven-roasted ·p()tatoes. Robe tried the Chicken Executive ($9.95), consisting of breaded chicken sauteed and st·uffed with herb butter and finished with green peppercorn sauce. The two pieces were just the right size, and they had a Hersh and Robe and Professor Tat the Executiv~:: ...,..,, • ..,_ · nice zesty flavor to them. The effect of the peppercom grew, however, until the whole dish · seemed a bit too hot. I · took the advice of our knowledgeable waiter and ordered the Tourned()S Scampi, at $14.95. It consisted of broiled tenderloins of .beef in a shrimp, mushroom, herb and wine sauce. The beef was tender and tasty, while the sauce was exquisite, with a curry-like flavor. The accompanying shrimp were the perfect complement to an outstanding dish .. By this time we were all stuffed, but we still managed to select two desserts after a lengthy discu~sion on the choices. The Tortufo-a ball of vanilla. and chocolate ice cream with a cherry in the center and covered with a, shell of dark chocolate came with whipped cream and was very good. In fairness, this is a simple dessert, ·and difficult to do wrong. Professor T gave the keylime pie a failing grade. I agreed, finding it much too small, not light enough, and just not right, although I could not put my finger on why. The professor's vast reservoir of knowledge was once again an asset, as he realized that the problem was that the pie was too buttery. Robe, who had never tried keylime pie before, tho~t it was quite good. Professor T and I finished up with coffee while Robe had a cup of tea. The· service throughout the night was very good; our waiter and busboy were both in- formative and helpful. In ad- dition, the Executive Suite pays attention to details; our water glasses were kept full, we were served a palate-cleansing bowl of sherbert between courses, and the serving of each course was commendably even spaced. Combining his love of food with his extensive training in statistics, Professor T created a .new and revolutionary restaurant rating system. Ascribing each segment of the meal a weight (based on its cost ill dollars), he rated each one from 1-10. He then multiplied his weights by his ratings, added up the products and divided the result by the .sum of his weights. He came up with a rating of 7.~. The service and atmosphere were neither good nor bad enough to affect the rating, in his opinion. He also added that cigarette smoke froi.D other tables was an an- nDyance. Based on our standard 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable price, I gave The Executive Suite an 8. Robe agreed. 'lbe Executive Suite 108 Jay St. Schenectady, NY 374-8107 · All maj()r credit cards ac- cepted. Reservations s11ggested. Closed Sundays. Price for three, With tax, before tip: $66.85. Meron Benevenisti to Speak on Controversial Middle East Issues JJyLISA CHERANDE In light of the heightened media attention on the Middle East and the growing concern over the dispute of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, the speaker chosen for this year's Anwar Sadat Memorial Lecture seems even more timely. Meron Benvenisti, Head of the West Bank Data Project and one of NEXT WEEK: GREEK ' . . ' WEEK MAY 11-14 WATCH FOR EXCITING SPORTING EVENTS, NIGHTLY PARTIES, PICNICS, CONTESTS AND MUCH MORE! Israel's leading specialists on the West Bank, will be speaking on Wednesd~', :May 11 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Recently, he has been seen as 3 guest speaker on television's Nightline and quoted in the New York Times. Hisle ~ture should prove to be very int ~resting and offer some insight 'ln a highly t;ontroversial issu••: CAMP HOLLYWOOD MEETING Thursday night at 7:30 NEW MEMBERS WELCOME Location-Haskin Lab---behind the Arts Building Word of the Week IT Derivitive of Italicsizability Def: feeling Bent w ~ 0 z < :I: ~ •W :I: ?Q ~ 0 I ,a_ : ,i I .I .; ·i 1 ··! { ' i '} ; : I ·! ·. ;' '· ' \ : _;;. I'

I CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page 7 FEATURES. Out to Eat With Hersh and Robe By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS The Executive Suite For those looking for a place to take their parents to eat, The Executive Suite is a go()d choice. In proximity to Union, i1 offers quality feod a1 a reasonable pri:ce, abovE average service, and a com.· fortable atmosphere. This week we we:re blessed with the presence of a world renovm.ed culinary expert and part-ctirne political scientist, Professor '1'. The Professor brings tv Schenectady a finely h(med palate, cultivated in the great Mid-West. Tht three .of us met in the bar room and then moved to the L- shaped dining area. We noticed that it had been redone sinc-e our last visit. The decor ts characterized by soft green an<l mauve colors, flowery pain- tings, and dim lighting. The overall effect is very pleasant, but nothing special. For starters, I had the Tor· tellini Daniel, at $4.95. It was a large and very filling mixture of tortellini, mushrooms, and bits of lobster, all in a creamy sauce. Although the cream sauce was a bit thin, and there were too many mushrooms and not enough lobster, the dish was still very pleasing. Robe chose the Fettuccine Carbonara, a large bowl of fettuccine with bacon, heavy cream and Romano cheese sauce. It was very heavy, but thoroughly enjoyable, with just the right touch of black pepper. The Professor liked his onion soup, but after a while the tremen- dous amount .of cheese diminished his overall im- pression of it and kept him from finishing it. We all chose the tossed salad over the spinach salad. Each was a large and fresh mixture of lettuce, mushrooms, Admission Blues Reported from The National Review It's college admissions time again, and Richard Lederer of St. Paul's School has been collecting some choice items from student application form~. One student wrote, \I am in tbe mist of choosing colleges.\ other collector's items: -\If there was a single W()rd to describe me, that word would have to be 'profectionist'.\ -\I was abducted into the National Honor Society.\ -\I function well as an in- dividual and as a group.'\ -\I want to fully bilingual in three or more languages.~· -\I proliferate with English courses.\ -\Needles to say .. .'\ -\Vietnam was an exuberant price to pay for Grinch Continued from page 6 never been determined bllt if was high enough that even o.ur tuition couldn't cover it (which is remarkable in itself) . The administration froze: wb.at could possibly be done to stop these sun-starved maniacs? Their first response wa:; a senseless pattern of abs\II'd rules aimed at ending any social, or for that matter, anti- social activities. From rules banning music to a con()ealed attempt to build a dome for the football field extending over all of the Capital District area. This is where the true grit of Union students really shone through. All the efforts of .the administration fell to failW\e. These foiled attempts only resulted in one thing, a grell!ter determination of students to remain apathetic, a truly ad- mirable quality. The sight of students lazing about in th~ SWl is one that renews hope in the American way. This episode of triumph is one that cannot help but remind me of a quote from one of America's greatest somnolence.\ -\I am a freshman at Mount Holyoke College. I am con- sidering going to Bates College for a year and then possibly transferring. I applied as an undergraduate and was weight- listed.\ Maybe, pace Bloom & Ben- nett, it's just too late. authors, Dr. Seuss. In his lesser known sequel ''The Grinch that Stole Spring,\ he states (or close to it) \It wasn't SWl, OP wear, frisbee or beer. It wasn't sand, warmth, tans or cheer. No, it was none of these at all. In fact, it was a desire to do nothing at all.'' And so it is rumored that the ad- ministration's heart shrunk two sizes that day! So let us all beware of what they have in store for us next; until then, enjoy the warmth while it lasts. LOOK FOR THE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE IN THE. INSERT! OR DON'T! cucumbers, and a large cherry tomato. Robe, who has dif· ficulty with QVerflowin.g salad bowls, was especially pleased with the large plates the salads were served on. Everyone foWld a choice he liked from the carousel of homemade dressings. The Walnut Cran- berry Vinagrette that Robe and I had was Wlique, sweet and delicious. Professor Twas very pleased with his bacon- horseradish dressing. In ad- dition, I sampled the hleu cheese dressing, which was robust and enjoyable. ~,-:\ '} ~ ·\\\' From the fairly straight- forward menu of chicken, veal, pasta, beef and seafood choices, the ProfesS()r ordered Veal Parmigiana, for $10.50. He found it a decent entree, but certainly not up to his Mid- Western standards. The serving was generous, however, and he enjoyed his choices of broccoli and. oven-roasted potatoes. Robe tried the Chicken Executive ($9.95), consisting of breaded chicken sauteed and stuffed with herb butter and finished with green peppercorn sauce. The two pieces were just the right size, and they had a nice zesty flavor to them.. The effect of the peppercorn grew, however, Wltil the whole dish seemed a bit too hot. r · ms ·-\ ' Hersh and Robe and Professor T at the Executiv~::: '\'\'\'\'· I took the advice of our knowledgeable waiter and ordered the Tournedos Scampi, at $14.95. It consisted of broiled tenderloins of beef in a shrimp, mushroom, herb and wine sauce. The beef was tender and tasty, while the sauce was exquisite, with a curry-like flavor. The accompanying shrimp were the perfect complement to an outstanding dish. By this time we were all stuffed, but we still managed to select two desserts after a lengthy discussion on the choices. The Tortufo-a ball of vanilla and chocolate ice cream with a cherry in the center and covered with a shell of dark chocolate came with whipped cream and was very good. In fairness, this is a simple dessert, and difficult to do wrong. Pr()fessor T gave the keylime pie a failing grade. I agreed, finding it much too small, not light enough, and just not right, although I could not put my finger on why. The professor's vast reservoir of knowledge was once again an asset, as he realized that the problem was that the pie wa.s too buttery. Robe, who had never tried keylime pie before, thought it was quite good. Professor T and I finished up with coffee while Robe had a CUI> of tea. The servtce throughout the night was very good; our waiter and busboy were both in- formative and helpful. In ad- dition, the Executive Suite pays attention t() details; our water glasses were kept full, we were served a palate-cleansing bowl of sherbert between courses, and the serving of each course was commendably even spaced. Combining his love of food with bis extensive training in statistics, Professor r created a new and rev()lutionary restaurant rating system. Ascrilling each segment of the meal a weight (based on its cost in donars), he rated each one from 1-10. He then multiplied his weights by his ratings, added up the products and divided the result by the swn of his weigbts. He came llp with a rating of 7.05. The service and atmosphere were neither good nor bad enough to affect the rating, in his opinion. He also added that cigarette smoke from other tables was an an- noyance. Based on our standard 1-10 point rating system, relative to other restaurants in the area and of comparable pr-ice, I gave The Executive Suite an 8. Robe agreed. The Executive Suite 108 Jay St. Schenectady, NY 374-8107 All major credit cards ac- e epted. Reservations suggested. Closed Sundays. Price for three, with tax, before tip: $ti6JI5. Meron Benevenisti to Speak on Controversial Middle East Issues By LISA CHERANDE In light of the heightened media attention on the Middle East and the growing cmcern over the dispute of the West Bank and Gaza Strip, the speaker chosen for this yEar's Anwar Sada t Memorial Lecture seems even more timely. Meron Benvenisti, Head of the West Bank Data Project and one of NEXT WEEK: GREEK WEEK MAY 11-14 WATCH FOR EXCITING SPORTING EVENTS, NIGHTLY PARTIES, PICNICS, CONTESTS AND MUCH MORE! Israel's leading specialists on the West Bank, will be speaking on Wednesda:\ May 11 at 8:00 p.m. in Memorial Chapel. Re;_·ently, he has bet>n seen as q guest speaker nn telrvision 's Nightline and quoted in the New York Times. His le~ture sh•mld prove to be very int ~resting and offer some insight rm a highly controversial i:;su··< CAMP HOLLYWOOD MEETING Thursday night at 7:30 NEW MEMBERS WELCOME Location-Haskin Lab-behind the Arts Building Word of the Week IT Deriv iti ve of Italicsilability Def: feeling Uent § ~ <( :I: C/l a: w :I: fu 0 0 :I: a.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 INTERNA'\fiONAL FEA1.,URES Alan Derkazarian This Week in the World ny Nicolas Boch Poland: Police cla~hed with demonstrators dllring a May l)ay protest. Authorities reportedly detained at1cast 200 pr~ncsters nationwide as thousands of people in at least 15 cities heeded a call by the outlawed Solidarity trade union for a national \Day of protest.\ Netherlands: 1brcc British soldiers were killed and three others injured iQ two separate gun and b<Jmb attacks. The !Fish Republican Army claim responsibility. Sri Lanka: Tamil rebels detonated buried explosives beneath a bus. outside Sri Lanka's eastern port of Tincomalee. killing at least 26 passengers. New Caledonia: Mclancs ian separatists refused to accl\pt a Roman catholic archbiship as a mediator in proposed talks aimed at the release of about 20 French police hostages in New Caledonia. ·The Kanaks described the officers as prisoners of war. as four gendanns were wounded in tht·latest incident in I 0 days of violence in the french island territory. Japan: A Japanese cholesterol drug can block the binding of the AIDS virus to its human cells, thwarting infection, .laboratory tests indicate. The drug, dextran sulfate, has been sold over the counter in Japan for two decades. Canada:. Prime Minister Mulruncy pressed Reagan for .<;~,resoltltion of the acid rain dispute between Canat.la and the U.S., but little progress wa~ made on the , issue during theirmcCt:ing in Washfuglon. Middle East: Arafat traveied to Lybia after agreeting with Syrian President Assad to work for a strategic Alliance against Israel and a US Middle East peace plan. Israeli Prime Minister Shamir said the agreement could pose a threat to Israeli's security. (Source: W aU Street Journal, 04/29-05/02) I • h .. · ·1· ·· A. • ns1g • t . nto . ·. rmen1a By ALAN DERKAZARIAN Most Union College students have only come into contact with Armenia through the classic Woody Allen joke. \Annenia - where men are men and the sheep are ner- vous.\ Questions of \Wher.e is Armenia located,\ \Who are they?\ !'Why have I heard the name in the news lately?\ and \Why should I care?\ bombard me when I explain that DerKazarian is an Armenian name. Armenia is a republic of the Soviet Union situated at its southern border between the Black and Caspian Seas. Its strategic value, being a buffer between Turkey and Russia, makes it a hot spot for Soviet policy, as seen in the Azerbajan conflict. There are 4,150,00() Annenians in the Soviet Union with over 1,000,000 of them living in Azerbajan and Georgia. To spew out more unin- teresting facts, Armenia rests at an average elevation of 5,900 feet on the Caucasus mountain range. By 1980 two-thirds of Armenia was urbanized and its economic expansion was un- paralleled in the entire Soviet Union due to its illegal, democratic black market. This black market is enjoyed by most of the Armenians and has given Armenia the highest standard of living in the Soviet Union. Armenians are privileged with free education from the age of seven to seventeen as well as with free, professional medical treatment from one of its many hospitals located in the capital Yerevan. But much of Armenia's pride comes from its history, or should I say from the survival of its history. The first trace of an Armenian cultur.e comes .frCJm the second millennia <ll.C. In 331 ·B.C. Alexander tile Great conq11ered the Arme!lians and infused them with Greek culture. Ever since this time, Armenia has been a diSIJUted country bet- , ween warring empires. The Romans, P~rsians, Parthians, Byzantines,. and Arabs aU had incorporatecl 1 A~;menia into their own res~ective empires throughout •the first millennia A.D; in successio·n. The Armenians ~nly enjoyed brief periods ·of .autonomous relief during thisiJeriod. Tigranesthe Gr-eat wa s able to mold Armenia Lnto a: formidable power in 70 B.C., strong enough to repulse tbree invasions by the Roman Empire led by Pompey and Crassus. St. Gregory brought Cb.ristianity to Armenia ii1 300 A.D., rallying the people to throw off their oppression at the hands ()f the Persians. . Two othel' co.untries, to whom Armenia was a symbol of it& dominion o.\Ver ~ the other were Turkey ancl Russia. After their war in 1878 1 tl:le Russians and Ottoman Turks exchanged massacres. in Annenia in at· tempts to wipe outthe .pesky Armenians and populate the country witb. their own people. This actio11 culminated during World War\ I when the Turks used the 'Nar as a pretext to begin an e:xtennination of the Armenian people. In 191~. ~ 750,000 . .11\rmenians were forcibly m~rclled out .of their rightful ho:meland and into an uninhabitable desert. One million Armenians died in the slaughter.lt has been estimated that two-thirdS of the Armenian race was massacre<! during this fateful yellr. As it turned out, the newly born Soviet Union pushed into Armenia in 1919 and drove out the Turks, .returning the exiled Armenians to their native soil for the price of their loyalty. The dilemma that faces Armt;!nians throughout the world today is the amazing proclamation 'by the Turk government which denies that the massacre ever existed. Of an even more incredulous nature is NATO's reluctance to reprixnand the Turks. NATO believes that the massacre did exist but not in the magnitude that it has been reported; therefore we should lighten Turkey's responsibility for the crime. Maybe NATO thil!ks the nwnbers andthebrutality of the massacre have been overdone, but my Grandfather would disagree. In 191() when he was seventeen years old, tbe: Turks broke into his .family's house and killed his mother, father, and eight sisters whUe he, his older sister, and younger brother fled out the back door. It took .him two years to make his way to America and another three years to learn the language and find a job. It is a crime against hUIIianity for politics to cover up one of the great tragedies ,of history. However, throughout this history of degradation, the Armenians held strong to their nationality and religious faith. They have always fought against irrestible odds, sacrificing thousands for the lives of a hundred, and they have survived. Now they are incorporated in. a waste of an ' economic system, yet instead of \' downing ·.· m:: inefficiency ' the .Annenians have ignored the Soviet Union's threats of in.- vasion and continue to build a strong and vibrant economy done their 0 wn way. I am proud to be an Annenian. The Many Moods of Spain We were welcomed to Spain by the ~lashing neon lights of the Hotel Nuria in the center of Madrid. We spent our first week visiting the sights in Madrid such as the Prado and El Escorial. Between sightseeing we occupied our time by sleeping off our jet lag and discovering Spanish cuisine. At night we sampled tapas (snacks served in small bars) and ex- plored the Madrid nightlife (our first Spanish discos! ! ) We were there for the celebration of the Epiphany and joined the entire population of Madrid in the streets to watch the parade. UnfortWlately an old (and :···mle'?) Spanish man took a !- .rong dislike to Carolyn Barry and chased us all through the streets of a crowded artisan market. No, we diJn't make too mJch of a scene; screaming, jumping over stalls and hiding in stores! Before arriving in Seville, we visited Toledo and Cordoba. Toledo is a small, beautiful city surrounded by ravines where we saw the first of many cathedrals and experienced ·cheap Spanish wine - only $1 a bottle, but tasting a lot like vinegar. Cordoba is home to an ancient Roman bridge and a huge mosque. Finally, we ~ame to Seville where we were placed in taxis late one Saturday night and sent to meet our families and see the places that would be our homes for the next 9 weeks. That first night went smoothly for most of us, except for Pat DiCerbo who turned up at school the next day complete with all his bags and ready to move! Which brings us to school. It is called the Center for Cross Cultural Study and' it was to become a large and interesting part of our Seville Experience. The Center is run by Daria and Geraldo, assisted by Geraldo's son, Nico. Our professors were Spanish and spoke no English in class which made it difficult to understand them at first. The classes were grammar, spanish history, art history, and literature. . Seville itself is an absolately · beaqtiful city. with palm trees and orange trees and beautiful buildings. The city is divided by the Guadilquivir river which is lined by cobblestone paths, stone benches and more palm trees and orange trees. Also alongside the river is the torre del Oro, a circular lookout tower built by the Muslims and once covered with a layer of gold. Other sights in SevHle include the Famous Cathedral and Giralda Tower whj.ch · hovers high above the city. A favorite past ~ime w~s walking through the Parque de maria Luisa, a gorgeous park filled with paths, flowers, fountains and plazas. Other days were spent shopping in the many stores on Calle Sierpes and • Tetuan, taking full advantage of the rebajas (sales) in our 9 favorite stores such as .Sola11a § and Mango. If the sun was out and it was warm, however, (; most of us could be found sitting ~ by the river or tanning on our ?a roofs. Another daily activity for . o most of us was going to a gym to 2 lift or do aerobics, to combat a.. the effects of the huge comidas . and the bakeries found on every corner of the city. As for llightly entertainment, we spe-nt most of our socializing hours together, meeting in a little square . surrounded .with bars mostly filled with Americans, and Spanish guys looking to pick up Americans. We spent a lot of time in Chess and Lapiz, and then would head over to !l.io, a disco on the river where we often found ourselves at the wee hqurs of the morning. As time went on in Spain, we took many weekend trips to the beach and some spent time in the little towns in Andalucia. The group became very close and aside from a few bouts of homesickness, we all came to love Seville and appreciate the positive e~perience of a Union term abroad. International Honse: Experience the ·world 'RACQUETBALL ~TO-URN.AME·NTS . - - - - Sponsored by Phl Sigma .Kappa ior the Benefit of JuvenUe o:iabetes When: May 13, 14 & 15 Where: Alumni Gym For: All members of the college community Oo nations: $'5.00 Prizes: $75.00 · Men's Tournament $25 .. 00 · W~omen's Tou.rneiment If interested you may ·sign up· at the College Center on Mon ... May 9 and Tues.~ May 10 or. notify Brian Moss at Box. 1'548, phone 386-4189 / r ~ ;-~ f j ,[: 1 .. , .~~

/ li \ ,, I ; ·• ·i CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page ~ INTERNA·TIONAL FEATURES 10 We:eks in Israel . . • Th·e Best Abroad 'Term .By AMY BABOF\F' and ST,A~EY ROSENFt&LlJ. The application deadline for the Israel Term Abroaod Winter 19~~ js appJ;oaching .fast. :Sut, what is a kibbutz? What kind of work is done there? Hov long is the tenn there? Is trllver ·in· eluded? What type of courses for Union credit a1e o·:ffered·? Does one have to be J ewisb to go? And, hoW dQes on-E benefit from a term in Israel? It seems that these relevant questions are semehow.related to:thelack , of interest and initiative in appl¥iJ1g to the term abr'Oa<l.. To assist those who ar~ ciirious about what the progrca::m con- sists of, here are· tile basic. ariswersto. many quefi(ions that have been asked of us s;ince we . have just returned f:rom th.is enriching term in Isral!ll. In Hebrew, the wor(!. kibbutz means group. But it i:s not just any ordinary grouJl; it is a voluntary collective •()f •com- muniti.es Which have aided in the development of thE. State of Israel. Kibbutzim fOirrns the backbone of Israel's agriculture. and a significant co'mpc>nent of its industry. Work .ts. both a philosophy and a prin.cipJe in the Kibbutz society. 1bls attitude is part of socialist ideology. EveryonE) must war!! and all ISU T .ABLE. ' ' . . ' - . : ..,. ( -. . }' . 't _' .. ·. ' : . ' 1 ,l ' - __ : : ' . : FRIDAY. COLLE,GE ·cENTER !AT work is highly valued as a contribution to the good of Society. The kibbutz member and volunteer are assigned a variety of jobs. This worlt may be in the fields, in· the factory, in the dining hall, in the 'laundry and clot~ing rooms, in the kibbutz-run store or in the children's .playroom. Union students are elq)ected to work 6 ho.urs per day, 5 days per we~lt M~mbers of the Union CvUege student .. volunteer group ()il the kibbutz, take 2 Hebrew classes in the English classroom there. The third class given by Professor Berk consists of special lect~es by him in the Fall, related seminars in tsrael, and sup.plementarY reading materials, A .paper is · mitten and.sentto J;iim by the end of the term. In total, 8 weeks are spent on the kibbutz. The highlight of the term occurs during the flr:St and tenth weeks of the tTimester. During these two weeks, there . is a private tout of Israel from the northe.rn Golan Heights to the southern l>Eiaches of EUat. Aside from the extensive sightseeing, there are films, hikes, Middle Eastern cllisine, excellent accommodation$ and an impressive overview ()f this small country so rich in eulture all over the world try out kib- butz life. One need not be Jewish to appredate this cultUral experience. Although Hebrew must be learned for the term away, English is .spoken throughoutthe count·ry. In other words, communication is not a problem. The tenn abroad in Israel is spe.Cial. You Will take part in community living, learn a beautiful language, and visit the places that you have read about in the Bible or in a history book. The term is relaxing' in the sense that everytning is taken care .of for you - the tour and accommodations, the kibbutz classes and work and even the postage for your aerograms to be sent back home. This ex- perience has alloWed us to appreciate our surroWldings ·..., our · family, friends, and country. A term away in Israel bri,ngs history alive and kibbutz life brings a different .per- spective to a different culture. As you discover this· foreign land, you win rediscover yourself. Professor Board Professor Board Teaches in .Paris If you were to ask anyone from the 1988 Israel Term, they would give you a factual and enthusiastic account of their stay in this unique atmosphere. If you have any questions, please contact the terms abroad office ... Applications are due Mav 9. By MARJORIE HOFER Most members of the Union community who travel abroad go to study-however, during the late fall, Professor Board of the Political. Science Department went to Paris to teach. Board spent eight weeks at the Sor- bonne teaching a graduate · seminar in the legal and con- stitutional background of the American Political system; focusing on problems relating to power conflict and authority. Professor Board described the French $udents, (who were all PhD candidates) as being \serio.us receptive, very sharp,'' and haying an excellent educational background. He did not need to alter his teaching style wbich consi~ed of lectures and discussions for a group ·Of .15-20 students. Board enjoyed · teaching in ·the ·· French classroom, which he found to be quite lively. The students were . very eager to have an American Professor. In fact some even thanked Board for coming to 2 ·teach. · ~· · Although the students and ~ ·faculty were as Board stated, ·~ ''first rate,\ he also noted that &t unlike Union, the physical ~· · facilities at the University of ~ · Paris were a bit primitive: For example, he said that the office 6:;· space was small and th,e g classrooms tended to be ~ somewhat grimy and un- a. fortunately not well heated. spent at the Sorbonne as one of the most exciting and amazing opportunities he has had •. Board stated that the trip was \an intellectual boost in the ann which stimulated new research ideas.\ The most difficult aspect of Board's time abroad was preparing for his two hour a week lecture which was delivered ... in French. Although he had spent tiine in Paris before, thiS was the first time Board.had composed lectures in French. ln the beginning, he spent a week preparing for a class, after which another Professor wo'Uld look over the material. But Board noted that by the time he left, his · preparation period was down to only two or three days. Board was also pleased with the fact that he had come back to teach ~ an~ area which h'e was rather fainiliar with; for as a student he aiso had stUdied at the University. This time he noticed a lot more security police and special police arotmd Paris and added that the government had done an ex- cellent job in eliminating the terrorism. Even though he has taught abroad in both Sweden and England, Board is especially fond of Paris which he says is ''clearly the most bea1,1tiful city .. ,it is picturesque with a personality all its own.\ 12:3!0 A scenic view af Jerusalem On the other hand, because the Sorbonne is a metropolitan Univeuity with Paris as a campus, the environment proved to be very advantageous on many accQUnts. The students were all well aware of what was going on in the world. Board felt that teaching in Paris was a fantastic intellectual · ex- perience where \the life of the mind was· flourishing.\ He described the eight weeks he Professor Board is grateful for all the help from Union's French Department and' the Terms Abroad offic.e in preparing him for what he termed his immersion.\ In turn, Bof:lrd 1ow hopes to transmit the enrlchiJ'}g experience to the studen· s back home. By in- corporating more French material and philosophy into his curriculum. Board would like to make his students more aware of the Frenen crontribution to our pol~tical 1deulogy. AnYSfuderit: ,(1'\terested in , having a ~()Oth'f()fFit%hUgh Ludlow=Day's ·Flea Market MA:¥'::('''~ao'::::::#fQ:SO·:,·.:AM·4 · :.B'M' .. · · <L!b·~~y.·Pnita,~·ptease.· · centa:c1V:l~afat:·:.;3i2~0;1'-·1\2 or·~'. ... ::Mr$~;l~rr~~,it~~~~~nt:····· · ·.::.,;,,.:~,,,,,: .. ,./A.C,li:V[It·t~$, .. :ia~:.::::S7:~.~6332··•····. INTERESTED IN AN ARMENIAN CLUB? STARTI:NG NEXT FALL? Call Alan Derkazarian 346-4946~ Write for International features!\ Call Gary x6826 Aime x68.27 MERON S. BENEVENJSTI . The leading Israeli expert on the West Bank will deliver this year's Anwar Sadat Memorial Lecture at Union Coll?ge on Wednesday, May 11 at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapei.The public is invited to join us for this free program. Meron S. Benvenisti has been director of The West Bank Data Base Project since 1982. It · · has published several surveys of its findings in recent years. He earned his Ph.D. from the Kennedy School of Government of Harvard University. Earlier, he did graduate work at Hebrew University in Medieval Studies and Oriental Studies. Benvenisti will speak on the issues facing the people of the West Bank in this public address which is part of an endowed lecture series that honors the peace initiatives of the late Anwar Sad at. Before directing The West Bank Data Base Project, Benvenisti was City Councillor and Deputy Mayor of. Jerusalem from 1974-78. He had been administrator of the Old City and East Jerusalem from 1967-71. Earlier, he was director of the Economic and Development Depart- · ment of the Ministry of Tourism.· Benvenisti's scholarship has been rewarded by numerous organizations, including the Ford <and Rockefeller Foundations, the MacArthur Foundation, the Israel Acadmey of Sciences and Harvard University. He is the author of Israeli Censorship of Arab Publications, The Peace of Jerusalem, and Jerusalem, Study of a Polarzied Community, among other works. · . . . y r

P~ge 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Ma) 5, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ' ' CAJtl88tAN ~~~~ ... -~J't. . SEA Y(_· Costa Rica _:,.., . .\:-··~·- '- . .. ;..r-...._...,,v_._ • ·-<~ .•. \ •. \ • .. . ••. · . .'>.~ ·. { :···~ .· -. . ···-_; ·-. -·l lC,~>';;:~~~P''j'(;~_..:, S~LE OF MILES 0 2$ . 50 KILOMrTRES :INTER.NATIONAL. ISSUE By Aime Simon I n1ernanonal Features Editor Do you fee.l that the solidarity movement in Poland can accomplish any of its goals given the Soviet Union's policy of Perestroika? Andrew :Marrein-Efron (89)_The rise of Solidarity at this time again is a test of Gorbachev's willingness for Glastnost and Perestroika in the Eastern Bloc. The continuatio.n of the labor movement is of importance in order fortf:le Poles to be free from outside interference in their homeland. So long live Solidarity! Lakshm I Vadlamudl (89) and Lori Anderson (89)_We d~n·t beli~ve that Gorbachev will allow the Solidarity m~vement in 'Poland to gain much more strength since his openness is merely a superficial show for the West. Russian leaders have not transformed their paradigms to ·the extent needed for· any signif.icant changes to occur in Poland.. · Gina Rlverso (88LJf the opening up of the U.S.S.R. means that the Polish Solidarity movement will have a chance to voice its opinions, rattler than being crushed by the \iron hand\ of the Soviets, then I think it has a chance of gaining support in favor of its issues. I do not however see them achieving immediate resolution. Jared B!ume (90) and Peter Amato (90)_We would like to believe the current events will be beneficial to the solidarity movement. However, it is impossible that the Soviet polilcy has changed as drastically as the world perceives it. The worker's situation may improve slightly but not enough to make a difference in their power. Politically, Gorbachev may create ~he illusion of a more humanistic policy towards the Solidarity movement. But in our opinion the Soviets will continue to strongly control and suppress the efforts to gain workers' freedom and power. IN,TERNATIONAL HOUSE SPONSORS PICNIC Sunday, May 15 4:00 p.m.-6:00 p.m. In Front of Webster FREE FOOD! ALL IN·VITED By MARTY HECK Among the governmental systems of the isthmus .of Central Americ~:t, th~ govemm ment of Costa Rica is an ex~ ception to the rule. In a region where the norm ltas been political turmoil and revolution., Costa Rica bas been a paradigm. of democracy. Consequently stable and democratic since 1948, it has. avoided the crises that have hit the other nations of the region. · · Costa Rica .began as a colQny ofSpain. When MeXico achieved its independence from S,pain in 1821, Costa Rica did also, without having to fight, The coWltries of Central .America seceded from Mexico in 1824 and formed the Federation of Central America. Again, Costa ~ica achieved its independence without a fight. Fourteen years later, the Federation disl:)anded at1d Costa Rica was peacefully left to govern of its own accord. In its early years, Costa Rica lived off goods such as' coffee and bananas. The aristocracy of exporters controlled the government which was a close model of American democracy. The late · eighteenth and nineteenth centuries contained some political turmoil; in- cluding three dictatorships. In 1948, the leader of Costa Rica refused to leave power after being defeated in aii election. A success~ul military coup followed, 'but in December l948, Pepe Figueres, the coup leader, disbanded the military and allowed the real winner of the election to take power under a new constitution. (He was rewarded by Winning tile next presidential election). From Figueres election in 1953, Costa Rica has been. governed democratically. The system is a formal model of the American democratic .system. There are executive, You 'Are Invited To A Panel Discussion in English on FRENCH PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS Which will be held on: THURSDAY, MAY5 AT 4:30PM ROOM410 COLLEGE CENTER Before the second round which will take place on May 8th Sponsored by: French Club Dept of Modern Languages Dept. of Political Sciences LANGUAGE TABLES: MOND_AY: FRE,NCH TUESDAY: ITALIAN WEDNESDAY: GERMAN SPANISH FRIDAY: RUSSIAN Meet in the College Center Dining Roon1 at 12:30 p.m. (Russian Starts at 12:45 p.In.) legislative,, and judiCial branches of governtnent. A .president who may only be el~ed for one- four•year term, heads the country along with two vice presidents. They serve the ;presbtellt and one position carries no salary. The legfslature contains ~pproximately 60 m~mbers and is unicamer8.l in nature. Like the United States, they are elected by a system . of proportioned districts, but they may not serve consecutive terms; at least one must ·in- tercede before r~-electjon. Recent action bythe 'legislature has reduced the power of the presidenf~ by appointing some' administrative duties to in· dependent institutions. . The judicial system is headed by seventeen Supreme Court justices that are elected in staggered years for eight year terins. Perhaps their most important funcUon, and j.ndeed _perhaps the one ·that has in- sured democracy in Costa Rica isthe electi<>n of the members of the Supreme Tribunal of Elections, ortheTSE. The three member justices of this com· mission monitor and govern the elections of 'Costa Rica and interprets an laws connected with elections. The TSE ins11res that Costa Rican elections are honest and fair, that eacb candidate has a fair 'Chance, and · by C~Jntroiling ·eleCtion funds, rewards large stable political organizations and parties, helping to prevent factionalism. The g.<lvernment · also maintains an incredibly large bUreaucracy. The government uses the public job market to ease unemployment and help guarantee a smooth economy. ·Education' has the largest budget ... As. e. result, the literacy rate is akin to western ·stan- dards; 8~ percent of the populace are literate. Each citizen also receives very adequate health care .. All is not perfect, however. Costa Rica has ·lil large in- ·temational debt which puts question mar.ks· ;in its economic future.. Also, the. large bureaucracy bogs doWn policy formation, so, programs are not easUy launched. The population is ~lso growing at tOQ rapid a rateto provide jobs for all. Most recently, · the Sandinistas repr.esent th~ largest threat to Costa Rican autonomy. · Costa Rica, which tetains no real army, has conmantly been tmder pressure to sei,'Ve as a base for rebels. The Sandinistas used the country against Samoza and the Contras sought assistance in overthrowing the Sandinistas. Officially, as of a declaration in 1983, Costa Rica isa.neutralnatiQn, ~lthoughit is· still a member . of the , Organization .of American States and boUnd by the Inter .. American defense treaty of '1947. For over thirty-five years Costa Rica bas represented an oddity, an anomaly in the sea of political- chaos that has ·Characterized the rest of the· region. However, now that the Contras have · ceased to represent any real threat to the Nicaraguan attny, which is by far the largest and best equipeed in the eniire region, onemay wonder how long Costa Rica may continue to hang on to its autonomy. Nicaragua has shown a . predisposition to meddling in the affairs of its neighbors, for instance its support of rebels.jn ElSal\tadot: A Marmt neighbor With the power of Nicaragua may not mark the immediate end of Costa Rican democracy, but Will surely provide at · least some problems to the only model democracy on the Central American istlunus. Japanese film on View at The Al·bany ·lnstit~te of _History On Thursday evening, May 5, at 7:00 p.m., 'the Albany In- . stitute of History & .Art's Education Department will presentthe film RITUAL, with a discussion folloWing. This thirty-min11te film is free . and open to the public, and will be shown in the main building of the Albany Institute of History & Art, located at 125 Washington Avenue, in downtownAlbany. The film,. -RITUAL, portrays the seemingly contradictory nature of Japanese life· that blends ancient Japanese traditions with aspects 'Of Western cll.lture. By examining Japanese · people in various situations - at work, recreation, religious ceremonies and social functions - the viewer will see that the Japanese have created unique rituals that contain elements of Western culture. This program relates to the three current exhibitions at the Albany Institute that illustrate 19th centui-y Japanese art and culture, THE ART OF JAPAN, JAPAN THE FAD and IM- PRESSIONS OF A. NEW CIVILIZATION: THE LIN- COLN KIRSTEIN COLLEC- TION OF JAPANESE PRINTS, 1860.1912. := G·ERMAN FlLM Ein Amerikanischar Freund ( An Am.erican Friend) by Wim Wende.rs, · , with. Bruno Ganz and Dennis Hopper >, Monday, May 9th at 8:00 p111 cc406

' t CONCORDIENSIS, Mt1y 5~ 1988 r41ge 11 SCIENCE AND TECHN.OLOGY Qnion Hosts State Physics Symposium By BECKY KOOPMAN Union College hosted the 59th semi-annual symposium of the N:ew York State Section of the American Physical Society on April 15 and 16, 1988. Tne meeting commemorated the 50th .anniversary of the foun- dirng o( the Sectimt at Union C()lLege in 1938. The chairman .of the Union C()Uege Physics' Department in 19:-llt, Professor Peter I. Wold, reiCeives much of the creditfor the fo.unding of the New York State Section. He suggested its formation,. organized other pllysicists,and worked with the initlal committee to make the Section unique a}Jlortg other se.ctiQns and societies. The three main goals of the Section were to build a closer relatio~ship with New 'York's industrial research, improve lligh schc;>ol physics teaching, aad enc0utage · small college pllysics departments. These g()als were expanded in 1960 und.et the direction of c)1airman D~R. Morey (of Eastman- • Kodak), when the Section decided to devote its semi-an· nual meetings to symposia covering topics of con- temporary interest and im- portance. Most society meetings had previously consisted of sl'lort, highly specialized talks which were nearly incomprehensible to non-\specialists. The Section decided that its· symposia would be tutorial in nature, con- centrating on one subject, b11t covering as broad a range as possible. Therefore both students and scientists in other fields have been able to learn from specialists in con- temporary fields. The topic chosen for the 59th semiannual symposium was one which has received much attention recently: super- conduetivity. (A· super- conductor is a material which loses resistance to electrical current at some critical tem· perature. Superconductivity was discovered in 1911, but only witllin the last two years has it been found at temperatures PHYSICS COLL.OQUIUM '\Primary Photophysical Evellls in Photosynthesis\ Dr. Karoly Csatordi:!Y United Nations B.iological Research Center . Szeged, Hungary, and Department of Chemistry Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute _ DATE: Thursday May 5., 1988 TIME: 4:45 p.m. PLACE: Steinmetz Hall REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED AT 4:30P.M. All are welcome above the single digits in degrees Kelvin. The most. recent results show super- conductivity at temperatures of about 120 degrees K. Tile higher the critical temperat!U~e., the more practical super- conductivity becomes·l- Tlle symposium, which met aU day on Friday, April 15, and Saturday morning, Aprill6,was divided into three parts, covering the history of superconductors, new materials and measurements, and superconductortecl!nology. The keynote speaker . was Paul Ching-Wu Chu from the Uni:versity of Houston., wh() is famous for~ his high- temperature supercmduetor measurements. The sym- posium was well atte11ded and was considered a succe;Ss. \The big bang? Believe me, it was very,. very, very, very, verv, very big.\ From What's So Funny About Science by Sidney Harris ~Physi(cs Department P'romotes Research in Local High Sc1hools By STEPHEN HONIG '92 Vroom! It's another late Monday afternoon as my drag- racing Ford Escort pulls into the Union campusandl begin a desperate search for .a place to park - any place to Jlark - in the same hemispher\e as the science complex. Failing this, 1 st()p in the athletic area, journey from thereto~teinmetz (althougit I note tile many parking spots whi·ch have meanwhile opened up), and jog up the stairs as tile well- maintained elevator meanders· down to the first floor. Now I'm ready to do some .physics. I'm not actually a Union st11dent. I'm just a high sehool senior from The Albany Ac.ademy who likes interesting wO'rk. Six months ago I enlisted in Professor Laszlo Baksay's Hungarian army of physics researchers. Along with Professor RiGhard Magahiz, he provides opportunities t() do meaningful science. not only for Union .. unde~grads, but also for intevested high school seniors. ·I've been luck enough to be included in this group. The experience began mundanely but grew more interesting as time passed. Indeed, my first task was the prer~quisite chimpanzee labor called \Spectrum Data.'' This activity, somewhat akin to the Chinese water tort'ijre, coqsists of carefully typing about 1,500 numbers into- a computer. Excitement! Thrills! Fun for the whole family! Once I got that out of the way, the work which the professors assigned became more challenging. I used previous knowledge about computers to help with a small problem, and then tackled a four-month long project. I learned how to use a graphics program for the VAX called Anvil. Why it is called Anvil I'm not sure, but I've had a few · ideas. Perhaps because one can create mnusual 3-d shapes, like ,an anvil with it. More likely , becaus~ one wants to pound on it with a very heavy hammer'! NevertiLeless, with per- severaniiCe I eventually entered a '\.three dimensional bluepri~t\ of an end cap of the research group's high pressure chambelf.. Hopefully, this will be useful. Most recently, rve taken three \\eekend\long trips to Brookhaven National Laboratoory on Long Island with the pr()fessors. While there I assisted various Hungarians in a high-energy particle ex- perimentt. A partial result of this is my selection as New York representative to a Department of Energy summer research program at Brookhawen. Thus, my work with the Union phyics depart- ment hrus added to both my opportllllities and my knowledge of Physics. Do Neutrinos- Have Mass? tional aspect has now been found to the electron neutrino flux. It is being postulated that the electron neutrino flux is affected by the magnetic field of the Sun, implying magnetic interactions which can c()nvert neutrinos from one type to another, the Mikhaev-8mirnov- Wolfenstein effect. This means neutrinos have a magnetic moment, which means a cbarge distribution, which means mass. If the findings hold up the particle physics world and Standard model will be strongly shaken and astrophysics might have an answer to a big question. By ALAN DE SALVIO One of the more interesting problems in particle . and astrophysics. recently has been tlle question of neutrino mass. Neutrinos were postulated by P~uliin 1930 to conserve energy a11d angular momentum in radioactive beta decay. The neutrality of tte particle pr0oposed in theSe interactions led Fenni to ·christen them \:neutrinos.'' Other more esoteric aspects of the ne\ltrino are known - that it is has spin lk, always travels at the speed of Lig!)t and only interacts with other particles thrpugh the \'Wellk\ force and gravity. The elusiveness of neutrinos (and tlle 'weakness' of both the weak amd gravitational forces) was aptly demonstrated by the 26 ye~:~r d~lay in their observation before Reihes detected them radiating from a nuclear reactor in 1956. Within the Standard Model, or-. tbe accepted framework of theories that best describe p.article interactions as we now k:now them an of the above ,fi>Olds. Additionally, it predicts three types of neutrinos - the e1ectron, :utuon, and tau n~utrinos, and . allows for ~ follrth type; corresponding to· a possible fourth generation , of U:nobserved particles. Two main probleiJlS then · ar.lse. First, thete isn't enough mass in the universe. Present astrophysical theory has the universe starting long ago with a Big Bang, and expanding to tile present size by today. There are two possibilities based on those two conditions - the universe does not have enough mass to stop it's expansion and so blows up forever or the universe does have enough mass to stop its expansion and eventually falls back on itself in a Big Crunch. The problem is that while the first solution isa't aesthetically pleasing to the tlleorist, there isn't enough observable mass to qualify the universe for tll'e second possibility. Present ob· servations have tile Wliverse right between the two. The sec9nd problem appears nearby, in our own Solar System. Obs.ervations of Solar neutrinos do not agree with proven stellar dynamics models, while an other solar and local star characteristics do. Tbe problem isn't the rnodel, it's our understanding ()f neut~ino .interactions. · Recently, theoretical physicists have been trying to unify basic laws of nature, analogous to ihe wah electricity and magnetimn are described in · Maxwell's 'Unified' elec- tromagqetic equati.ons. Glasbow, Weinberg and Salam had substantial success ,Wlifying electromagnetism and the weak force· in the theory of the electtoweak force, and many ha,•e followed in their .footsteps postulating all sorts of Grand Unifying 'rhe()ries linKing the three remaining forces, electroweak, gravity, and the strong nucle.ar, These theories predict all sorts of interesting things, most of them at incredibly high ener-gies But some of them a11e the in- famous magnetic monop\ole porton decay and, lo ai!d behold, a small neutrino ma~, from 1- 1000 to 10 eV. Much of today's particle physjcs is involved in finding or net finding these things, for example the Supereonducting S11percollider will opoerate in a new high energy raage where wild things might happen, and in fact Union is involved in-,both pr~ton decay and neutrino mass ex.periments. Up to now, neutrino mass elq)eriments around the world have established an upper bound on the neutrino mass of :1() eV, still in excess ·of the predicted values. Work is also ongoing to solve the solar neutrino prolllem, and several massive neutrino detectors have come on line in ,tile past several years to get a handle on the pl\\oblem. An elq)erhnent operating since 1971 in a mine in South Dakota bas fomd only 33 perce11t of the pred. icted electron neutrino flux, and this has now been C()nfinned by a Japanese ex- periment. However, .and this is the interesting part., a direc- The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee of Union College presents May 12-.,.. SEYMOUR .ME.LMAN is professor of industrial· engineering at Columbia University. 6eft>re joining Columbia's Department of Industrial Engineering andlOperations Research in 1948, he was on the research staff of 1he. National Industrial .Conference Board. A widely-published economist, he has been honored with the Great Teacher Award from the Society of Older Graduates of Columbia, and the first annual Abraham J. · Herschel Peace Award from the Jewish Peace Fellowship. Thursdays, 11 am All lectures are In the UnlonCollege Centter 1\udltorlum. All are Welcome. Admission Free. For lnforma:tio11: (518) 370-6508.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 . ......._------Founded at Union c~ll~e 1877 ........ ----- Don't U ... ' DIOD S Forget History A small liberal arts college located along; t!he banks of the Mohawk River is fast approaching its bice-ntennial. With this auspicious occasion, opportunities to promote its heritage abound. . It is the first college to be chartered by the Regents of the New York State. It is one of the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country which is exemplar of the Colle.g~'s forefathers' determination to avoid the bias of the already established sectarian American colleges and promote a lhberal education. Its campus is the first planned campus. in the country designed by the French architect Joseph J .aoques Ramee in 1813. It was established as one of the \big fou.r colleges in the United States after less than four decades of existence~ It is the birthplace of the Greek system. inspiring the establishment of fraternities and sororities 11aticmwide. It is the first liberal arts college in thte nation to offer engineering. It promoted diversity of its student ()pldy by drawing students from all regions of the country. What Union's history reveals is its ••lfiber:ality of the educational vision.\ We have set numeroU-S-precedents. The College has proved itself as a pioneer in lrlgher education. And presently, the College is following this pioneer tradition by applying our forefathers~ ide.all of liberality in our present actions, such as the droppill~ o.f the SATs. Such actions illustrate that we are carryirng on the Union ideal. But what we have failed to carry on is our history .. Why don't we exploit our herlta~e--a heritage rich with tradition and precedent? Exploit it b!' promoting the College's history actively. After all, it's 3! history wortlly of being shouted from the rooftops <>f this campus, a campus dedicated to the promoti<>n of a. truly higher education. A Comprehensive Perspective The college is in a period of transition. Both physical and policy changes are being made. ln the pas!t couple of years, tb.e Alumni Gymnasium and the College Center have completed renovation, admissions has <lropped the SAT requirement, the weekly class schedule I:Ia:s been changed to promote \gel-time a new General Educ:ation program is currently being reflned, and a faculty- .salary upgrading project has been implemented. Union is clearly looking towards tbe future. While founding new traditions is difficult an·d often involves debate and controversy, it can be excitiiJg to lmow that you have the opportunity to voice your opinion and perhaps even be influential in the shaping of the College's future. We should regard our opinions on dlese changes as valuable input into the future direction <Jf the college rather than merely complaints about current imconveniences. For example, the current controversy of ch.aoging the College Center's name seems centered on what Camegie meant to us in the past, and our nostalgic feeH.;ngs towards our memories. Perhaps instead, we should regard the: proposal to change the name in a more inclusive manner. The \Carnegie\ name is hardly old and established, the building having been renamed in 1970. The building's name !has been changed several times since its opening so it is almost more in keeping with tradition to change it OIICe again. Also, naming the College Center after the doru.or may be a small price to pay for securing funds needed to maintain the building. On the other hand we may want to -<:onsider whether it displays scholarly ethic to name a builtding in an academic community after someone because the»' donated money, rather than after a notable aluinnus or adnnirable intellectual. Whatever your stance, we urge students and faculty to consider each administrative propcsal :fror change seriously and objectively. What may be difficult for us at the start may be beneficial to future college ·C:olllmunities. Union. will continue after we leave. It is our !I'esponsibility, and will ultimately beneflt us, to insure that Union continues .to strengthen. We must learn to look at decisi<>ns re~arding the college's future with a much broader perspective~ After all, we shQuld be as proud of it ten years from n<>w as we are today. - --- . ·_ '-·-- ~ ' SPAA's.Views Incorrect and Unclear To the Editor: I wish to comment on the first attempt that Students for Political Awareness and Activism have made at ad .. . dressing any .issue. I refuse to sink to their level and fight With rhetoric. Let's talk specific issues; Take note of the fact that ·the article by Denise FeiniK!d 'afpearing in the April28 issue • o . Concordlelisis entitled \Union Students Take a Stand'' is prbnarily a review of their fun-filled trip to Boston. It appeared in the Features section,.not News Analysis, p. 2. They assmne we know their stance on these issues. They're not out to eonvince us or make a . . persuasive argument; they're ' out to make a big splash. SPAA demonstrated in front of the National Security Agency building in Bo!3ton. Feinsod claims the NSA is an organization which ''monitors U.S. citizens to assure internal national security.\ Further, the • NSA is top secret and reports officially to no. one. The National Security Agency was created in 1952 by an . executive order signed by President Harry S. Truman. From that point on, the NSA acted as a member of the U.S. intelligence cDnununity. It was held accountable by the DirectorofCentral.Intelligence,_ who oversaw not only the CIA but all other intelligence- gathering agencies. Executive. Order No. 12036, signed by President Carter on January 24~ 1978, put the NSA under the control of the Secretary of Defense. So that answers one of their points. The NSA reports t() the Defense Department. The National Security Agency certainly does not monitor the activities of American ·Citizens. Its primary work is in in- telligence gathering abroad, especially in the area of com .. munications. NSA works witi'l radio broadcasts, TV aerial reconnaissance, spac.e espionage, and coding and decoding of messages. Indeed one of the finest achievement ()f the U.S. intelligence community is Radio Free Europe and Radio Uberty, broadcasting into the- Soviet Bloc. · 'Ibe NSA deals in computers. In 1986, it sponsored a Super- computers Conference in L()s Alamos, New Mexico. NSA employs incredible \real time.,' capability in its aerial recon- naissance program. \Real Time,\ something the Soviets don't have, is the system of transmitting photographs and All letters to tile Editor must be typed double, spaced, no more than 750 words, and submitted by·4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must b& signed by no more than four pe-ople and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification. Names normally will not be withheld.Concord ensis reserves the right to reject letters that ar~ libelous or· do not conform to standards of good taste. taped telephone cal1s U()m KH- 11 aircraft immediatelydD~ to earth. Before real time, material was dropped from a plane into the Pacific, picked up by a ship and then flcwn to Washington, a timely and tedious task Now, phCltos of Soviet tanks and heUcopters in Nicaragua can be takell and ~ on the President's desk in ap- proximately 90 minute~J .. l(H .. ll recon planes and re~l-time capability planned the attack on Libyl:l in 1986, and asse~sed the damage afterward. KH .. ll's noticed a little problem at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union also that year. From a little bit of research,. one can easily .see that Feinsod and SJ?AA haven't the. foggiest clue to what the NSA does. According to James Bamford in his book on the NSA entitl~d \The Puzzle Palace,\ a bug~ debate took place within the community as to how fl!r their- jurisdiction extends into the u.s: Bamford gives the example of the PLO sending a mi:\Il to . New York to plant bombs. The NSA bas a loose policy of not releasing the names of American citizens or corporations that are piced up by their electronic sensors. The NSA will ,pass . the infc;~rmation on to the State Departmen;t, but it will delete' the names of the American involved: · Feinsod mentions SPAA participation in a demon- stration against United Paper Company. They demonstrated in front Qf the Bank of Boston, \which has connections with United Paper, which refuses to negotiate with its work~rs' union.\ 'Connections.' What's the point? 'ibe :Bank of Boston can't do anything. It's an excuse .to· g9 public and create con- tr~versy. It's not to enlighten, nor tq teach, nor to argue .persuasively. SP AA then demonstrated in front of the armed forces recruiting · center to protest. death. Think about it. SP AA is opposed. to death. Well, who isn't? Political philosophers throughout history have reasoned tbat a $tanding army is not entirely desirable, butit's a.necessity. In an arena of in- ternational relations where there is no enforceable moral code binding on nations,. . a st~nding arm.y, intemgence activities and dipiomatic alliance~ are a necessity for tll.e preservation of the state. And no one can argue that the preservation of the United States is undesirable. SPAA should -enllghten us, educate us, and explain to us their points of vie. Rather than focW!ing on this lofty goal of \raising · awareness,\ an in- telligent discussion of issues should be aimed for. And please get the facts straight. Cordially, · . Daniel J. Keniry '91 LAST .DAY TO WITHDRAW F:ROM COURSES - FRIDAY, MAY 6 ~--------------------------~--------~1 A reappointment review is being conducted for Assistant P~ofessor Kurt Hollocher of tile Geology Department. Anyone who would like to comment on Professor Hollocher's teachihg, scholarly activity or college service is invited 19 provitle written , or oral testimony. to the review committee, which consists of Professor T.C. Wemer (Chemistry), Professor Phil Snow (Civil Engineering) and Pro.fessor JC)hn Boyer (Biology). ·ji

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS) May S, 1988 -..------FoundeJ al Union College 1877 -------- Don't Union's Forget History A small liberal arts college located along the banks of the Mohawk River is fast approaching its bicentennial. With this auspidous occasion, opportuni:ties to promote its heritage abound. It is the first college to be chartered by the Regents of the New York State. It is one of the oldest nondenominational colleges in the country which is exemplar of the College's forefathers' determination to avoid the bias of the already established sectarian American colleges and promote a liberal education. Its campus is the first planned campus in the country designed by the French architect Joseph Jacques Ramee in 1813. It was established as one of the \big four\ colleges in the United States after less than four decades of existence. It is the birthplace of the Greek system inspiring the establishment of fratemities and sororities nationwide. It is the first liberal arts college in the nation to offer engineering. It promoted diversity of its student body by drawing students from all regions of the country. What Union's history reveals is its \liberality of the educational vision.\ We have set numerous precedents. The College has proved itself as a pioneer in higher education. And presently, the College is following this pioneer tradition by applying our forefathers' ideal of liberality in our present actions, such as the dropping of the SA Ts. Such actions illustrate that we are carrying on the Union ideal. But what we have failed to carry on is our history. Why don't we exploit our heritage--a heritage rich with tradition and precedent? Exploit it by promoting the College's history actively. After all, it's a history worthy of being shouted from the rooftops of this campus, a campus dedicated to the promotion of a truly higher education. A Comprehensive Perspective The college is in a period of transition. Both physical and policy changes are being made. In the past couple of years, the Alumni Gymnasium and the College Center have completec.l renovation, admissions has dropped the SAT requirement, the weekly class schedule has been changed to promote \gel-time a new General Education program is currently being refined, and a faculty salary upgrading project has been implemented. Union is clearly looking towards the future. While founding new traditions is difficult and often involves debate and controversy, it can be exciting to know that you have the opportunity to voice your opinion and perhaps even be influential in the shaping of the College's future. We should regard our opinioas on these changes as valuable input into the future direction of the college rather than merely complaints about current inconveniences. For example, the current controversy of changing the College Center's name seems centered on what Carnegie meant to us in the past, and our nostalgic feelings towards our memories. Perhaps instead, we should regard the proposal to change the name in a more inclusive marmer. The \Carnegie\ name is hardly old and established, the building having been renamed in 1970. The building's name has been changed several times since its opening so it is almost more in keeping with tradition to change it once again. Also, naming the College Center after the donor may be a small price to pay for securing funds needed to maintain the building. On the other hand we may want to consider whether iL displays scholarly ethic to name a building in an academic community after someone because they donated money, rather than after a notable alumnus or admirable intellectual. Whatever your stance, we urge students and faculty to consider each administrative proposal for change seriously and objectively. What may be difficult for us at the start may be beneficial to future college communities. Union will continue after we leave. It is our responsibility, and will ultimately benefit us, to insure that Union continues to strengthen. We must learn to look at decisions regarding the college's future with a much broader perspective. After all, we should be as proud of it ten years from now as we are today. LETTERS . SPAA's.Views Incorrect and Unclear To the Editor: l wish to comment on the first attempt that Students for Political Awareness and Activism have made at ad- . dressing any issue. I refuse to sink to their level and fight with rlletoric. Let's talk specific issues. Take note of the fact that the article by Denise Feinsod ap~aring in. the April 28 issue o,f Concordiensls entitled \Union Students Take a Stand\ is primarily a review of their f1ll1~filled trip to Boston. It appeared in the Features section, not News Analysis, p. 2. They assume we know their stance on these issues. They're not out to convince us or make a persuasive argtunent; they're out to make a big splash. SP AA demonstrated in front of the National Security Agency building in Baston. Feinsod claims the NSA is an organization which \monitors U.S. citizens to assure internal national security.\ Further, the NSA is top secret and reports (}fficiaUy to no one. The National Security Agency was created in 1952 by an executive order signed by President Harry S. Truman. Fr-om that point on, the NSA acted as a member of the U.S. intelligence commWiity. It was he1d accountable by the Director of Central Intelligence, who oversaw not only the CIA but all ot~er intelligence- gathering agencies. Executive Order No. 12036, signed by President Carter on January 24, 1978, put the NSA under the control of the Secretary of Defense. So that answers one of their points. The NSA reports to the Defense Department. The National Security Agency eertainly does not monitor the activities of American citizens. lts primary work is in in- telligence gathering abroad, especially in the area of com- munications. NSA works with radio broadcasts, TV aerial reconnaissance, space espionage, and coding and decoding of messages. Indeed one of the finest achievement of the U.S. intelligence community is Radio Free Europe and Radio Uberty, broadcasting into the S-oviet Bloc. The NSA deals in computers. lr!. 1986, it sponsored a Super- c-omputers Conference in Los Alamos, New Mexico. NSA employs incredible ''real time'' capability in its aerial recon- naissance program. ''Real Time/' something the Soviets don~t have, is the system of transmitting photographs and All letters to the Editor must be typed double spaced, no more than 750 words, and submitted by· 4 p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verification. Names normally will not be withheld.Concord ensis reserves the right to reject letters that are libelous or· do not conform to standards of good taste. taped telephone calls from KH- 11 aircraft immediately down to earth. Before real time, material was dropped froii). a plane into the Pacific, picked up by a ship and then flown te Washington, a timely and tedious task Now, photos of Soviet tanks and helicopters in Nicaragua can be taken and he on the President's desk in ap- proximately 90 minutes. KH-11 recon planes and real-time capability planned the attack on Ubya in 1986, and assessed the damage afterward. KH-ll's noticed a little problem at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union also that year. From a little bit of research, one can easily see that Feinsod and SP AA haven't the foggiest clue to what the NSA does. According to James Bamford in his book on the NSA entitled \The Puzzle Palace,\ a huge debate took place within the community as to how far their jurisdiction extends into the U.S. Bamford gives the example of the PLO sending a man to New York to plant bombs. The NSA has a loose policy of not releasing the names of American citizens or corporations that are piced up by their electronic sensors. The NSA will pass the information on to the State Department, but it will delete the names of the American involved. · Feinsod mentions SPAA participation in a demon- stration against United Paper Company. They demonstrated in front of the Bank of Boston, ''which has connections with United Paper, which refuses to negotiate with its workers,. union.\ 'Connections.' What's the point? The Bank of Bostc11 can't do anything. It's an excuse to go public and create con.- troversy. It's not to enlighten, nor to teach, nor to argue persuasively. SPAA then demonstrated in front of the armed forces recruiting center to protest death. Think about it. SPAA is opposed to death. Well, who isn't? Politi:cal philosophers throughout history have reasoned that a standing army is not entirely desirable, but it's a necessity. In an arena of in.- ternational relations where there is no enforceable moral code binding on nations, ~a standing army, intelligencE activitie~ and diplomati<: alliances are a necessity for thE preservation of the state. Anc:! no one can argue that thoe preservation of the Unite(! States is undesirable. SPAA should enlighten us, educate us, and explain to llS their points of vie. Rather tha:n focusing on this lofty goal of \raising awareness,\ an in· telligent discussion of issues should be aimed for. And please get the facts straight. Cordially, Daniel J. Keniry '91 LAST DAY TO WITHDRAW FROM COURSES FRIDAY, MAY 6 A reappointment review is being conducted for Assistant Professor Kurt Hollocher of the Geology Departruent. Anyons who would like to comment on Professor Hollocher's teaching., scholarly activity or college service is invited to provide written or oral testiruony to the review committee, which consists of Professor T.C. Werner (Chemistry), Professor Phil Snow (Civil Engineering) and Professor John Boyer (Biology). r s i I t

CONCORDIENSIS, May S, 1988 Page 13 .. alii Professor Responds to Test·Ban Article To the Editor: Perb.aps tbe use of English reading and interpretati()nwas sloppy in the article,\Test Ban\ in Ctln,cordiensis, but the im· plication which I read out of that, and the interpretatitln which I made out of the wor- thwhile article in the April issue of PhysicS' Today were . far different. I am concerned that the readers of only this Con- cordiensis article would judge that the distingv,ished scientist and military and government advis()r, Herbert · York, is against a comprehensive nuclear test ban. His Physics Today article is a biographical one about his involvement in the Manhattan Project and later in military and · governmental advising. Many of his statements are representative of bC!th sides of issues (such as the n11clear. test ban proposals), and give thinking of. some military, some politicians, and some scientists .. In most places York cites his own convictions on iss'Ues only as a side point. In the case of the comprehensive ' test ban, I could find no definitive position which he took, but my reading is that he implies that he is not against · such a ban. It:strikes me. as distortion and misrepresentation of the Physics Today article to match the concerns of \Com- prehensive Test Ban\ where the statement Cited by York of soiO.e mUitacy, some politicians, and few of the scientists about their fears of being at a disadvantage by certain potential agreements with the USSR, bas been picked out. It would be fme and most acceptable if the article had clear~y labeled these concerns .m(ll'e specifically, · and cited· York's statements which counters in some case such selections. . I highly recommend that all interested in this subject read this very interesting article (available in our library) by a most distinguished scientist. I also suggest further reading of a recent book \Arms Control and Verification the Technologies . that Make It Possible\ (Pergamon, 1986) edited by Tsipis et. al. These two references m,ay allay concerns made by \Com- prehensive Test Ban\ that: \regular tests are considered necessary (by wholll?) to jn. sure that these devices are functional\ and \ ... present state of U.S. nuclear w~apons design and delivery technology, which is behind tile Soviet Union's in most areas .... \ W.B. Martin, Professor of Chemistry SENIORS .LEITJ:M -· - _, Poster Theft Aggravates Play Director 'l'o the Edit<:>r: , I think I speak for both , Mountebanks and BLAS when I , : express indignatipn at the theft ·; and defacement . of a . large ' number of \All God's Chillun • GGt Wings\ posters. I can recall an incidentsimilartothis in the ·winter term '86. The posters, . . advertising \Alice in Won- : derland\ · (a Mountebanks :; production), were stolen as fast as. they were put up. These · posters, however, exhibited a . · very appealing cartoonist : drawing, ·which I can un- . • derstand: .people wanting to . ; .steal for their bedroom waus. .•, Although the ''AU God's ChillUil\ poster is by .far o11e of the nicestthis campus. has seen, I fail to understand why so many would be removed .from bulletin boards. Jen .and Craig (the actors on the poster) are very handsome people, but I can't imagine so many people wanting them on their walls. Unfortunately, I can imagine a couple of other motives~ FCJr one · thing, I can imagine that there are students, despite the fact that we are all at least eigllteen years of . age, bein~ childish enough to draw mustaches and beards. on Jen's face.· For another thing, I can imagine there exist a sufficient number of individuals who are.offended by a suggestive phobof a black man .and white woman and would see fit to rem~ve them. I must emphasiZe heie ·that the above two opinions are my own and llot the positions of either BLAS or Momtebanks. Nevertlleless, it is Qffensive to lloth o(1ganizations, vrho work so hard on this camp\IS, when someone destroys or removes advertising for their ambitious joint venture with '~All God's Chillun Got Wings.'' Michelle Maratto Director of\ All God's \ChillunGot Wings FALL I 88 INTERNSHIPS . # Full-time positions with The Legislative Gazette Reporters, photographers and adv~rtising sales- people needed for the only weekly newspaper exclusively dedicated to reporting the news of New · Yqrk State government. Commencement is fast approaching ·and if you are interested in speaking at Graudation, please submit a 1-4 page draft 'i (about 45 minutes) to Mrs. Marra CC-408. The topic is yours to choose and the dealine.for submission is Friday, May 13. Also ' please indude your ID number only on the speech and enClose 0 Learn first-hand about poiJtics, media and communication while working fUll-time in the capitol of New Yoi'H State. · . I'· a separate sheet of paper with your name, box ni,Jmber, phone n.umber .<~m:llD.numb~r~ , . · . .. . . ... . . . ii' you wlsh ·to sing the ·alma mater· and the National Anthem. please .send. your name, box number, and telephone number. to Mrs. Mar.ra .. CC-408 before Monday, May 16 and you will be notified. ,abdut. an audition .. Ushers Needed ~For . ' . . .;.. ·- - .,.')~--\ \\4 • ~ If you are interested in politics, journalism or sales ~nd marneting, you can't afford to miss this opportunjty. · The program is open to Juniors and Seniors, and offers full-time credit and a stipend. For more· information or to apply, <ontact: Commencement June 12, 1988 Jamie Matzdorf at (518) 473-6482 See Mrs.. Marra cc 408 Committee App,ointments ·for 1988-89 School Year ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMIITEE: Amy Baboff Gwen Wallace Keith Bemis ACADEMIC COMPUTING SUBCOUNCIL: Deborah Culver Lori Richard Tracy Pryluck ADMISSIONS LIAISON COMMITIEE: Stephanie Spencer Dav.id Enteman ATHLETIC LIAISON COMMITTEE: Alan Eisenberg .. Wendy Smith CONCERT COMMITTEE: CHAIR: lan Cooke Bill Boyd MEMBERS: Christopher Mastrangelo Edward Koval Elaine Dugan CONDUCTCOMMIITEE: CHAIR: Mary Margaret t<eniry MEMBERS: Linda Swenson Rita Clement Kevin Decker Werdj Hams Mark Landrio Ruth Cohen Deborah Byer · FIUII COMMITIEE: CHAt R: H. Scott Davis Barbara Stastny MEmBERS: Michael Skarbinski ·Michael Greenberg Suzanne Glass \ HU~AN SUBJECTS COMMITTEE: Carolyn Sch~af PLJ~NNING AND PRIORITIES: Tracy Furney Carolyn Schaaf Michael Schultz RESEARCH AND GRANT: Leslie Shapiro SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES: CHAIR: Stephani Larios MEMBERS: Suzanne Glass Scott Weisberg Cathy Lee Rna Clement . SOCIAL COMMIITEE: CHAIR:William Floor MEMBERS: Lori Richard Stephanie Budlong Elizabeth Berliner Laura Justas COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEE: Michael Schulitz SPEAKERS BOARD: CHAIR: Judith Irish MEMBERS.: Laura Justus Patrick Guy Michael Greenberg Michael Skarbinski S1ANDING OF STUDENTS: Robin Denenberg Rhonda Loner Adam Hoffman Fl NANCE COMMITTEE: Amy Oltchick Stacy Renner Steven Savad S1UDENTS AFFAIRS COUNCIL: Kevin lrland Risa Sotsky Mark Landrio STUOENT GROUNDS COMMITIEES: Lisa Lans William Boyd . STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COURT: CHAIR: Deb<:lrah Byer MEMBERS: Joshua Hooker Allan,Rappleyea Josllua Maridield '·

CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page 13 • .. •• ·' • ' • ' ' • • • • ' - - • Of~ • • : • • • •• - - • • • • • ' • • \ • ' • ' • • ~ •• : • • • ·: • • • ' • • •• - • • ~ ' ' - • ' •• : ' • Professor Responds to Test Ban Article To the Editor: Perhaps the use of English reading a11d interpretation was sloppy in the article \Test Ban\ in Concordiensis, but the im- plicatioa which I read out of that, and the interpretation which I made out of the wor- thwhile article in the April issue of Physies Today were far different. 1 am concerned that the readers of only this Con- cordiensis article would judge that the disttng.uished scientist and military and government advisor, Herbert York, is against a comprehensive nuclear test ban. His Physics Today article is a biographical one about his involvement in the Manhattan Project and later in military and governmental advising. Many of his statements are representative of both sides of issues (such as the nuclear test ban proposals), aad give thinking of some military, some politicians, and some scientists. In most places York cites his own convictions on issues <mly as a side point. In the case of the comprehensive test ban, I could find no definitive position which he took, but my reading is that he implies that he is not against such a ban. It strikes me as distortion and misrepresentation of the Physics Today article to match the concerns of ''Com- prehensive Test Ban\ where the statement cited by York of some mitlitary, some politicians, and .few of the scientists about their fears of being at a disad'\lantage by certain potential agreements with the USSR, has been picked out. It would be fine and most acceptable if the article had clearly labeled these concerns more specifically, and cited York's statements which ceunters in some case such selections. I highly recommend that all interested in this subject read this very interesting article (available in eur library) by a most distinguished scientist. I also suggest further reading of a recent book \Arms Control and Verification the Technologies that Make It Possible\ (Pergamon, 1986) edited by Tsipis et. at These two references rnay allay concerns made by \Com- prehensive Test Ban\ that: \regular tests are considered necessary (by whom?) to in- sure that these devices are functional\ and \ ... present state of U.S. nuclear weapons design and delivery technology, which is behind 1lle Soviet Union's in mostareas .... \ W.B. Martin, Professor ofChemistry SENIORS Commencement is fast approaching and if you are interested in speaking at Graudation, please submit a 1-4 page draft (about 45 minutes) to Mrs. Marra CC-408. The topic is yours to choose and the dealine for submission is Friday, May 13. Also please include your ID number only on the speech and enclose a separate sheet of paper with your name, box number, phone numb~r and ID number. If you wish to sing the alma mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box number and telephone number to Mrs. Marra CC-408 before Monday, May 16 and you will be notified about an audition. Ushers Needed For Commencement June 12, 1988 See Mrs. Marra cc 408 LETTERS Poster Theft Aggravates Play Director To the Editor: I think I speak for both Mountebanks and BLAS when I express indignation at the theft and defacement of a large number of \All God's ChiUun Got Wings'' posters. I can recall an incident similar to this in the winter term '86. The pesters. advertising ''Alice in Won- derland\ (a Mountebanks production), were stolen as fast as they were put up. These posters, however, exhibited a very appealing cartoanist drawing, -which I can un- derstand people wanting to steal for their bedroom walls. Although the \All God's ChiUun\ poster is b] far one of the nicest this campus has seen, I fail to understand why so many would be removed from bulletin boards. Jen and Craig (the actors on the poster) are very handsome pe()ple, but I can't imagine so many people wanting them on their walls. Unfort1:111ately, I can imagine a couple a£ other motives. For one thing, I can imagine that there are students, despite the fact that we are all at least eighteen years of age, being childish enaugh to draw mustaches and beards on Jen's .face. For anather thing, I c.an imagine there exist a sufficient number of individuals who are offended by a suggestive photo of a blaek man and white woman and would see fit to remove them. I must emphasize here that the above two opinions are my own and not the .positions of either BLAS or Mountebanks. Nevertheless, it is offensive to both organizations, who work so hard on this campus, when sameone destroys or removes advertising for their ambitious joint venture with \All God's Chillun Got Wings.\ Michelle Maratto Director of \All God's \Chillun Got Wings FALL '88 INTERNSHIPS Full-time positions with The Legislative Gazette Reporters, photographers and advertising sales- people needed for the only weekly newspaper exclusively dedicated to reporting the news of New · York State government. . Learn first-hand about poliocs, media and communication while UJor-Hing fUll-time in the capital of New Yor-H State. If you are interested in politics, journalism or sales ~nd marketing, you can't afford to miss this opportun.ity. The program is open to Juniors and Seniors, and offers full-time credit and a stipend. for more information or to apphwf, contact: Jamie Matzdorf at (5 18) 473-6482 Committee Appointments for 1988-89 School Year ACADEMIC AFFAIRS COMMIITEE: Amy Babotf Gwen Wallace Keith Bemis ACADEMIC COMPUTING SUBCOUNCIL: Deborah Culver Lori Richard Tracy Pryluck ADMISSIONS LIAISON COMMITTEE: Stephanie Spencer David Enteman ATHLETIC LIAISON COMMITTEE: Alan Eisenberg Wendy Smith CONCERT COMMITTEE: CHAIR: lan Cooke Bill Boyd MEMBERS: Christopher Mastrangelo Edward Koval Elaine Dugan CONDUCT COMMITTEE: CHAIR: Mary Margaret Keniry MEMBERS: Linda Swenson Rita Clement Kevin Decker Werdy Harris Mark Landrio Ruth Cohen Deborah Byer FILM COMMITTEE: CHAIR: H. Scott Davis Barbara Stastny MEMBERS: Michael Skarbinski Michael Greenberg Suzanne Glass HUMAN SUBJECTS COMMITTEE: Carolyn Schaaf PLANNING AND PRIORITIES: Tracy Furney Carolyn Schaaf Michael Schultz RESEARCH AND GRANT: Leslie Shapiro SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES: CHAIR: Stephani Larios MEMBERS: Suzanne Glass Scott Weisberg Cathy Lee Rita Clement SOCIAL COMMITTEE: CHAIR:-William Floor MEMBERS: Lori Richard Stephanie Budlong Elizabeth Berti ner Laura Justas COMMITTEE ON COMMITTEE: Michael Schulitz SPEAKERS BOARD: CHAIR: Judith Irish MEMBERS: Laura Justus Patrick Guy Michael Greenberg Michael Skarbinski STANDING OF STUDENTS: Robin Denenberg Rhonda Loner Adam Hoffman FINANCE COMMITTEE: Amy Oltchick Stacy Renner Steven Savad STUDENTS AFFAIRS COUNCIL: Kevin lrland Risa Sotsky Mark Land rio STUDENT GROUNDS COMMITTEES: Lisa Lans William Boyd STUDENT TRAFFIC APPEALS COURT: CHAIR: Deborah Byer MEMBERS: Joshua Hooker Allan Rappleyea Joshua Markfield ,.

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, May $, 1988 Peter Costa Union College students have usually been labeled as apathetic when it comes to political and social issues. llowever, in the last year, there has been a growing awareness on campus. The Greek system, Gel time, and women's issues are just a few of the topics that were debated both on canapus and in the editorials. As Sophomore Class President, I had the opportunity to become involved in all of them. It is because .of this growing awareness on campus that I decided to run for the office of Student Forum President. This year's Forum ac- complished more than any in recent history. Some of the most important changes were the opening of meetings to the campus, use of polls to deter- mine opinions on sensitive issues, the \Student Forum on the road\ meetings to en- courage greater student par- ticipation, and the sponsoring of forum-faculty colloquims to discuss mutual concerns. These are a few of the very woJ,'thwhile policies that, if elected, I would continue. However, there are many things that need much improvement, the most im- portant of which is student- faculty relations. Lately, there has been a growing sense of hostility between some mem- bers of the faculty and the student body. There is no place for that attitude on this campus. Also of concern are the issues of what to do with the Nott, curriculum ch~:mges, im- provements for the college center, and taking some of the burden of campus social life off the fraternities. The Student Forum's purpose is to represent the entire student body. I hope that you will give me a chance to insure that this happens. Thank you. Christopher Pi,ke After being on the Forum for my 5Clph()more year, I know I now have the knowledge and connections for Student Forum president. Plus, being a junior next year, l will be able to give the tinle necessary to make sure we are heard. Two issues I feel are pertinent are dealing with the administration and faculty and Gel·Tirne. We must not allow the ad- ministxation to keep coming out with new policies that affect students without student input; i.e., the new food service hours. Every time these policies have come out, we have lost more and more and the ad'- ministration has gained. The :way I hope to approach the problem is to improve relations between the students, faculty and administration. But if they . insist on leaving us out of. these very important decisions then we must get tough and not ccmce.de anything! Another important issue next year will be the Gel-Time review. As of this time, everyone knows where people stand on the issue but it will be my job to make sure that Gel· Time is properly and thor()ughly reviewed at the end of its two~year trial period. This als~ applies to the ~ther academic policies that are ccming to a vote; they also should be dealt with properly. There will be many more problems and concerns which will come up next year. As president, I will make sure these will be dealt with promptly and that student concerns come first. We ar-e the :Students' most powerful outlet ancl we must prove to you that we deserve your trust. To get this trust, your first step should be t() vote for me, Christopher Pike, for president on Friday, May! I • Vice President for Academic Affairs ,:'>'. ~il/ii' John Meier My name is John Meier and I'm running for vice- president for academic affairs. The - Academic Affairs Council and the Student Forum have ac- complished many objectives in tbe past. 1 would like to con- tribute to the tradition. My goal as your . vice president for academic affairs is to be an active liaison bet- ween the Student Forum and the Academic Affairs Council. Naturally, the views of the student body must be ascer- 1ained on the pressing issues oonfronting us today. It is my hope that each student surveys the field of candidates and votes John Meier tomonow. Evan Grace My name is Evan Grace and I am running for the position of vice president for finance. This is an extremely important post which demands a great deal of responsibility. A good portion of control over allocating club budgets lies in this office and these budgets must be decided fairly and equitably. If elected, I Will make certain that each club is assigned a sufficient budget to suit . its needs. The specific needs . of e~ch activity need to be taken into account. In the case of the crew club, for example, the team competes in- tercollegiately on a varsity level but has club status at the college. In order to remain competitive, the club needs a. rather large budget. This .is the type of thinking I will employ. After looking into the specific needs of each activity, I will decide upon a fair budget .. This is what I intend to do if elected vice president for finance. Elections are Tommorow Take the Time to .voTE! Since there are only two candidates for the three senior representative positions, the Student Forum will conduct run .. off elections . Steven Savad My name is Steven Savad and l would lilte to be your vice president .of .finance. Many students don't realize that each of us pays $138.00 per year for \activities fees.\ When I discovered that the student body had such a large sum o{ money, I wanted to know how it was being allocated and to whom. I discussed these questions with this year's vice president of finance. I found out that the funds are primarily allocated to clubs and organizations here at Union; and that it was the respon- sibility of the finance com- mittee to see that this job was done fairly. I am an economics major and have much experience with budgeting and fund management. I was the steward of my fraternity last year, successfully remaining under budget throughout my entire ienn in office. In addition, over the summer . I acted as bookkeeper for a small Long Island printing firm. I understand that one of the current problems of the finance rep. system is tbe lack of the availability of the represen- tatives to the club heads. I hope to remedy this through the use of the new club mailboxes in Carnegie, the. use of an an- swering machine so that club heads can leave word of their needs at any time, and through working as many hours as is possible in the student activities office. I hope the aforementioned information illustrates my qualifications, as I would be eager to take on the reSJX>n\ sibilities of this position. I am open to any suggestions and-or criticisms of all students, and hope to m~intain equity throughout the student body. When voting this Friday, I hope that you will sincerely and seriously consider me for this position. Thank you. R.J·. Donohue Overthe last three years, our Class bas witnessed many cnang:esat Union. Some of these · trans;f()rmation~ have been positive while others have been viewed as truly negative. As your class representative, I . wotlld like to see the positive . ch1111ges continue and make sure that the student body and adlninistration work together · forth.at goal. I would be honored · to represent the class of '89and would appreciate your suppQrt. R·db Danziger It is. amazing to think how fast our senior year is approaching. 'lhe Student Forum elections . this .Friday will be the last that olJl' elass will participate in. ' Consequently, it is important that our \Final Forum\ is conaposed of a group who are capable of working for both our · cla8s and our student body. · Sin«!e the senior representative is a representative for the entire undergraduate UniQn com- naUJiity, he-sbe must command the .respect of all his-her peers .as well as the resp~ct of the administration. This will be our last chance to use the Student Forwn to its best advantage. We must shape :it to suit our needs. Recently, IJmi<>n administration has overlooked student concerns. Vice Ptesident of Administration , Issues of Gel-Time, Food Service changes, and the naming of the new student cmter are three examples in Vlbicb the opinions of the st11dent body have been overlooked. We cannot remain pf,issive in light of these · ]lroblems. The Student Forwn c:an be an active and recog.- :ni1able power with the potential to; aneviate these problems. I assure you that my com- mitment and dedication to .. ·.,. .. ~ Ki.m Giglio Dedication, cletermination · &1d drive ar.e three qualities that I possess for the position of Vic~ President of Administration. I have refined these qualities from several . experiences such as resident advisor, career assistant and involvement within various clubs on the Union College campus. Besides qualities, Skills are bnportant for a person involved with ·Student Forum. Com- munication, interpersonal and organizationalskills are a must for an officer and I have these skills · whi<:b are a vital necessity to each officer and the student Forum in general. With these essentiais, I can and will make next year a worthwhile experience if elected •. So remember VOTE KIM ' , GIGLIO FOR V.P. OF AD- MINisTRA'I'ION! · malting the Student Forum an adive and recognized body iS legitimate. If elected, I will best bE able to back up this personal . . c(lmrnitment I have set here on p.aper. Conc;:ordlensis extends our appreciation· to Jenny Brandweln and Mel Hende.rson for this issue's photographs \'

-,. ~) ' ._ CONCQRDlENSIS, May 5,. 1!!88 · Page 15 STUDENT FORU·M.- .. ELE-CII:ON',-- STATE.ME:NTS . \ ' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Jun·ior Re,presentative to the Board of Trustees K:e ith ·Bemis I am running for junior trustee to represent the students of this college· at the . Board of Trustees with as much vigor asc-'1 can. provide. I have gained much experience in areas with which the Board -of Truste~s is concerned: academic and student affairs, aild long-term projects. I .ant concluding my first year as a student representative on the Ac.adenric Affairs Council and will be serving ~n the AAC again next year. As an AAC · member, I have been on the Subc<Juncil on Courses and Programs and~ have been a liai8on between the AAC and the General Education Board.. I have been a member on the Student Affairs CoUncil for the past year and have argued for students' interests on this coundl. ;EXperience g·ained from these two commi.ttees will enable me to best represent students' concerns regarding Union's academic and social affairs .. I am found~r and president of Restor:e the -Nott. This ex- perieace , wiU . ·aid -me in providing students the best representation possible con• cerning long term projects. As class representative -during my freshman · and sophomore years, I gained the .necessary experience in e:x.:presl'!ing students' views and un- derstanding the workirigs of the Forumn. - · As junior tru8tee, I would stciV'e for the restoratipn of: the Nott Memorial and ensure students' input is heard by the Trustees regarding. this matter as well as the proposed Library expan:sion so as,not to repeat the problems of Carnegie. I would also vehemently oppose tuition increases over the cost of living rate-we certainly donJt need another year of an 11 percent tuiti<Jn increase! Please vote for me, Keith Bemis,. for junior trustee. I have the experience and ambition to ensure students' views be best repre:sented to the Board of Trustees! Greetings fellow students. My name is Mel Henderson and I am a candidate for the -office of jWlior representatjve· to the Board of Trustees of Union College. During the past week I have been around to collect signatures on .my petitions for t~is office, and the question, '~Wllat's your platfonn.?\ arose several times. To honestly tell yotl, I do not have a .platform. My only objectives are to represent the entire student body before the Board of Trustees_, to .present to the Board any ideas which the students want to express. I also believe in handling the ~atters at hand in a very quick and. org~~ed Ularinei', Another questlon asked is, \Are you qualified?\ I believe I am· qualified for the position. I feel that I hold ;;ome very good leadership quaUties and that I am a ·gpod.leader. In fact., here is some background in,. . formation to support myself: I attended le~~'rsllip cla_ ss_ es and seminars wniie in high school, I wasVice President of Mu Alpha Theta in highschBol, I spent two years in the u.s. Navy and obtained . the rank of Petty · Officer Third Class, and I am c\lttently the Chairman of the Hickok Dormitory Cowtcil. I hove the · information presented answers your questions, and I hope to see you on voting· day, May 6; 1988. 'll!ank you vety much for your support. I Will support you if elected. /Jon't Complain Next Year ••• VOTE TOMORROW ATTENTION: CLASS OF 1988 How naa~Y. people can you rernember from r·ouR orientation group?- •Senior With most complete listing wins a _ · • . for that senior's freshman ' ' Mary ·Kelly Hi - my name, for those of you who don't know~Jte,is Mary Kelly. I'iil running .for the position of junior trustee. A student trustee is a voting representative of the student body· and should ·express the ideas and interests of the campus to the Board of Trustees~ I am ·involved in many student organizations and active in student activities. I feel that I am innovative as well as responsible and aware of campus happenings. As an aside, I am a work study student employed at Lamont House, and have gained an understanding of the processes of the college. Basically, the stmdent trustee shotild represent yvur views. I am always open to new ideas and responsive to yo_ur opinions. Due to an editorial error - ' ' Leela Mulukutla's ('90) photograph and election statement were omitted. Leela is running for Junior Representative. My naJ.ne ·is Josh Markfield and I am rwming for the position of janiorrepresentative to the Board ()f :Trustees. I am quaUILed for this position because I feel m.y views best represent th()se of the student body ~t large: J f~wor the ad~ tninistration' s greater acknowledgement of the social role .fraternities play on cam· pus. The .admini!rtrationhas ~eft the students no social alter· natives by building a ''student\ center that hosts no social fUllctions. Tbe administration also has to address the issue of housing. As lottery rolls around,. and people are thrown .off campus, Pm sure that you'll see ~· point. As tile junior trustee, I will bi'lng the stUdents' views to the Board and make them un- derstand the students' .positio11s. -I feel that I can and will be more per$uasive to that end than any of .my opponent~. Being jjlllior trustee will be. my highest priority, and will receive all of the attention that the job deserves. Lam. not in,. volved With every other com- mittee .on campus, and will have thetime to do the job properly. I hope that my views best repre:;ent yo11rs and that you'll let me represent you. I will be the most accountable and responsible candidate, and am worthy of your support. John Meyer _ On Friday, M~y 6, you will have the opportw:rlty to cast your vote for several student held positions. Among these is the position of student representative to the Board of Trustees. This is a two year conunitment to work with in- dividuals concerned about Union's long range plans. If I became a member of this group I would -incorporate student ideas into the actions of the board. My decision to run for trustee was carefully thought out because of the commitment made to my fellow students. The student trustee not only has the responslbllity to listen. to the concerns of the· other students, but also return to them in- formation aboat the Board's decisions. This year I have shown my concern for the Union community by holding a resident advisor's position. I have the interest, common sense, and experience in dealing with people to faithfully fill this position. As trustee one also serves on the executive committee of the Student Forwn. I feel that I can also bring new ideas to this group. The Student Forum has been effective this year in increasing student concern by such practices as \Student Forum hits the road.\ I would like to see, and would work for, a continuation of tbese practices. I encourage you to vote for John I'd. Meyer. Junior Representative David Adinolfi My name is· David Adinolfi and I'm running f()r junior class representative.· The Student Forwn deals with the issues that affect you, such as the General Education plan, Gel-Time, and the allocation of funds. J .have very definite ideas concerning each ofthese subjects. The Student Forum also serves as a liaisoll between the students and the ad• ministration. I believe it is : necessary for S()meone in a poSition of liaison to possess and derp.onstrate superior abilities of communicatioa. As an English major I am polishing ami improving. these J~bilities dally. . ... · If elected, I will work ·to the beSt of my ability to responsibly and effectively tel)resent the Class .of 1990. Richard Howard Heno, my .name is Rick Ho~axd and I am rUlli\ing for Jun1or Class R,epresentative to the Student Forwn. The Forwn is an integral part of decision :making and provides a pulpit for open discussion - a place where the student body can voice its opinions and have its tiest interests represented. This past year I was a member of the Student Affairs Committee. We wcrked closely with the Forum and the administration in discussion and deciding issues that concerned you, the student body. I gained valuable knowledge in the area of policy making and learned exactly what The Forum is and how it works. Next year I would like to put this knowledge to use to r~present the needs of our class, the Class of 199(). So vote, Rick Howard, Junior Class Representative. There are still positions open for senior· reps. Watc-h for notices on run-off e'lection or contact the Student Activities Office. .. ..

. CONCORDJENSJS, May 5, 1988 STUD'ENT FO,RUM :E:L,EC'TlO:N_ S.TATEM,ENTS . . - ' ' -\ - ·-. . -- ' - ' . . ·-- ' ~ .... - - - - - - -·- - . ~ . ·- - - - -- - ' - . .. .. . .. Hans Schwarz STOP! It's time candidates stopped hiding behind their personalities, and actually presented a substantive agenda and concrete methods of iffi, provement. Should a colLege bookstore be a money-making enterprise? Is gel-time the best schedule? Is the .food service maximizing its resources? . Are there funds which would belp two or three club sports upgrade to varsity status? What can Union do to improve its national name recognit,ion? These and many more items should be addressed by Stu.dent Forum candidates. Acting in the interest of the class is the job of the rep!esentative; vote for a platform not a pers~n. Unl'egulated monopolies are not allowed to exist in sodety without reglllation, why should they on campus? Since removal of the bookstore's monopoly status is not viable, regulation is the answer. A student, faculty, staff, and ad- ministration committee sbould be: established to monitor and regulate prices. ,Gel~tinie seems'to be favored bY: most of our class. Although it has drawbacks, ,and we have never had the opportunity to try anything else, our class as a whole wants .it to stay intact as it is. The schedule allows for much more flexibility in class scheduling. If any further changes are made in it, they should be put off at least another year. The dining service, after years of growing fat off of beer sales profits,.;had to find ways to tighten its ~lt this year. Why can private corporations rWI cafeterias which are financially SOWld and serve quality food and ollrs can do neither? A better food service co-uld be found if our current service cannot drasticall;y improve their quality, and fiscal management. Sporis are an integral part of Union College life. This is a positive attribUte, however, it is not being maximized. There are a few sports, currently- at the club level, which would be able to . represent Union more positively as var.sity SJ)()rts. The change would strengthen the team, and. would also enhance the image of the schoC}}; Union College must work to expand its name recognition. Altho ugh Union is similar to schools such as Vassar and Colgate, it does not CQme close in name recognition to these schools. This can be changed through various ways. The admissions staff has. worked hard this year to improve this, but more work needs to be done. Union professors lecturing out of the Northeast, sports teams and students themselves are all metbods, currently not maximized, which can bro~den Union's name recognition; helping WI all. The method. the trustees chose to pursue was 811 extraordinary jump in total cost for ne~ year. 'l'J1.U attempt failed, as Russell Sage received front page coverag~ in USA Today for a small.er raile. w~~'t a decreUe in total S,opho:more Representatives Roger Weber My name is Roger F. Weller and I am seeking election to :the Student Forum as sophomore representative. By interacting scho1asticany and SociaUy With the freshman class, I have t1ad the pleaswe of meeting a llood majority of the students in the class. I consider this a great benefit because people can talk to me casually about the .iss11es · that fac:e us as students. It is imPQrtant that we realize that the iss11es that student glJ'Iter- ment here at Union evaluatE are not simply standard c~llege policies, but also the attit11des and actions that are taken by students on and off campus. Anyone who reads the Con- cordiensls every week un- derstands that issues sucfi. as frater11ities, discriminati<m, and Gel-Time require st1.1clent input and that input sllould come from f!orneone sucfi. as myself who can relate well with the class. As SQphomore representative I plan to provide diverse, yet clear input !ln the views and attitudes of the · sophomore class. Hopefllli:Y in turn tile :student Forum will be able to take a stand'· ()n the issues tbat will best bene:flt the students and Union as a '\'/bole. Thus when voting on May· 6, remember that the S'tildent Forum exists for all the st~de11ts' benefit, and therefore it is impo-rtant to elect someone who can best express the concerns of the student IJody. Vote for Roger F. Webu- and rest at ease. Become Famous Among The New Students Next Year ... Draw The Design Fclr ORIEN'TATION I-SHIRTS ? • The theme for Orientation '88 Is \That's What I like About u•• Entries are to IJe submitted to Box 1029 ·by May :11, 198;8 A prize will be award~d to the winner and the design will appear on approximately 125 T-~hirtsl Sponsored by tile Orientation Committee. cost and tuition draw the most media attention, showing Union m a positive light? flow can you feel :you have used your right to vote oorrectly by voting for. a candiclate with an llllkn~wn platform? Vote for the platfonn no~ for tile person. Mlchete Lerner DanWaible ' Elg,in Rhodes My name is Elgin Rhodes and I am running for . sophomore representative. I believe that as' your cl~ss representative, I will fully exercise this poWer to e:x:pand on issues that are both essential and beneficial to the strengthening of our class as a whole. I $trongly believe that our class must be brought closer together, thus building a stronger bond to be productive in the decisions made by th~ school administration. · · I believe that I am qualified t() hold this prestigioUs position because of the previous ex- perience that I have in holding political qffice. I was President of the· Student Government in my high school, and- also the Vice-President of the school's . nationally- affiliated business My nwne is Michele Lerner. I would like to represent the class of 1991, in.theStlident Forum. A representative must be en- thusiastic, responSible, active . in the community and care a bout those who are represented. I fill these requirements. Union is _ v:ery important to me and I want you to get the most out of your stay here. I am willing to wor-k my hardest. for yo.u and have · already ,begilll. .to do so. My continuous work: With Food Services and attendance at the ·Forum meetings are some of the ways I have shown ro:y ·commitment to improving Union 'COllege. Remember a . Th.-oughout my t-erm as frestunan representative .1 have work~d with the :Stud~nt Fofum. towards creating a produ¢t;ive means of commUnication with .faculty and administration. ,Expressing students' opinions on relevant issues as Oel-Time and the . General · Education Curriculum is v:ita:Uy important in ensuring the best atmosphere for Union students, l will ·con- tinue to support the best social and academic enviroiUllents as your Sophomore Represen- .. tatlve. Thank you _ vote for MICHELE 1U}RNER is- a vote for the class of 1991. SC,biAFF,ER L·I·B,RA:RY Club. · - In those positions I was responsible for organizing fundraising events wbicb proved to be quite successful in giving individuals monetary awards which helped to alleviate the high cost of a college education. Wfj(@Jft!TJJ!fl]llrl· . will have· its ·special Collection on display From this tremendous ex· perience l learne~ how t~ both manage a budget and large groups of people. As your sophomore class represen- tative; I plan to bring our class closer together so we will be better informed on 'important' issues that are of relevance to 'our campus community. Please vote for ELGIN RHODES on May 6, to make a better and Il<IJJll~lU®I][!J) ·IJ))WJJ 10am.-noon Saturday . stronger Union. iS. Comincr ... b mtnw. ~®l1lli $400 R Priz.e Day· Ceremony ·,. 11 a~m. Saturday Memorial Chapel AND THE CREDIT YOU DESERVE! $400 CASH FROrA ,fORD· AND PREmAPPROVEO CREDIT FROM FORO CR~Dit At Ja;k Byrne Ford and Mere. we ~w ~~'i C.OLLEc<!' • how han!\it'ls t9 get started finan· ~ · ~ .,.... c ciaHy. So hale's what \\.'8 offer. II ~ · a•. ·•• 'e;. you'vegradualed,.orwlllgraduate. 0 .~ ~ with a Bachelor's or advanced degree ~ · ?:: betweerr0ctotler1, 1987 and Janu· .... \' ary 31, 1989, yw may quality lor ~ ~ $4()0 from f'ofd and. pre-approved o.. r,; credit from Ford Mdot Credit eom· 'T-1,SE . pttO pat¥ 10 q)lalify fur pre:-approved credit, you need: (1) verifiable emplo;lme!1! btigllwling Within t20 clays afier your \l'ehicle purchase: (2) a salary S!Jffk:jent to cover normal living.expenses plus a car payment alid{3) if you have a.cred\ !eCOrd,il must indicate payment made as ·agreed. The $400fromFordiSyours wl:letner yau fin~or.not..Keep it or apply iNo .the purchase or lease of an eligible Ford or Mei'cufy vehicle. · For all the details, c:ontact us or eall Progr-am Headquarters, tOll free. at 1·800·321·1536 · ·But hurry. This limited .lime oftel is only available ~tween~ 1 ~ Oei;ember 31. 1988. SO take acfvall- tage of theFordiMei'QJI'Y'~ Graduate PUrchase~ IIDW• / - . I.

'' ,, ' WHAT Go-op interest meeting -Di'st-ribution of lottery numbers Co-op Lottery Singles Lottery Sophmore Lottery Doubles & Sui-tes Junior Lot1ery Doubles & Suites Senior Lottery Doubles &-Suites 5~ 'JJ,I88 Page 17 .ROOM LOTTE-RY 1988-89 DATE- May4 May 11 May 11 May 11 May 16 May 16 ~ay 17 May 19 M.ay -23 TIME 4:00pm 1 :00-4:00 pm 1 :00-4:00 pm __ 1 :00-4:00 pm H:OO pm 6:30pm 6:30pm 6:30pm 6:30pm PLA.CE WHAT TO 'BRING Fox Lounge All Members of your co-op Seniors- Residence life MUST HAVE YOUR ID Office,College C:enter-403 Distribution of lottery Sophmores MUST HAVE YOUR ID Davidson Lounge Juniors Fox Lounge Achil'les Rink Achilles Rink Achilles Rink · Achil'les Rink Achilles Rink MUST HAVE YOUR ID lD, Lottery Card all members of Co-op ID, Lottery Card !D, Lottery Card All roommates ID, Lottery Card All roommates ID, Lottery Card All roommates Remember .•. You must have your lD and lottery card when choosing a room. The class member present with the lowest number will have first pick.The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, will follow. All roommates MUST BE PRESENT AND SIGN CONTRACTS when the room or suite is chosen. Only -four people may claim a suite. All • occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any rights to the room or suite. Additionally, the person(s) who chea1ed will be fined $100. Sophm.ore Lottery Cards ~t Davidson Lounge Wednesday, May 11th, 1988 1 :00 p.m to 2 :00 pm 2:00 pm to 3:00 pm 3:00 pm to_4:00 pm A through H 1· through R S through Z Junior Lottety Cards at Fox Lounge Wedn~sday, May 11th,,_ 1988 1 :OQ pm ·to · 2 :00 pm: 2:00 .Pro . 19 ~:0() pm 3:00 'piTr ·to A :0'0 pm A through H I tttrough .R S -through Z Sell'ior Lottery Cards at . O.ffice rof Resldence Life The College Center, Roo,m 405 Wednesday, May 11th, 1988 1 :30 JlM to 4:00 pm TIME 6:30-7:30 pm 7:00-7:30 pm 7:30- 8:00 pm 8:30- 9:00 pm 9:00- 9:30 p m 9:30-10:00 pm 1 0:00-un til the last person present is called JUNIOR LOTTERY 1 -50 50-100 100-150 150-200 200-250 300- on up until last per~oli .is c~!J9.d .. : THE SENIOR LOTTERY SOPHMORE LOTTERY 1 -50 50-100 100-150 150-200 200-250 300-350 : I.· 350- on up until last person is called The senior lottery does not have lottery numbers assigned to a specific time period. The senior lottery will begin at 6:30 pm Achilles Rink, Monday May 23, with the senior present who has the lowest lottery number (#1 ). The senior with the next lowest lottery number {#2) and present will then be called. It is to your advantage to be on time as the senior lottery has historically been completed within one hour. LOTT'ERY INFORMATION The room lottery will be conducted from May 11 to May 23. The computer will ra11domly assign numbers to students by class year. That is to ~ay, the computer rah.dDmly assigns numbers to members of the classes of 89, 90, and ~1. The . computer then translBtes the random number to a 11umber that . is understandable - 1 through 500- roughly the size of each class. This will be d.~ne fo:r each class with the exception of the incoming new stude11ts. Members of the Residence · Life Staff will distrillute to eligible students a lottery card bearing the student's.n!lllle, ID number and lqttery 11~ber. The student MUST pre$~nt hiS· her ID and. pick . up !:lis-her lottery.~card IN PERSON. Only students presenting ID 1 ti. will receive a lottery catd.. If a student has a class and is unable to pick up his•htlr lottery card that day, he\She mtaY do so at the appropriate Area .Coordinator~. office tl:le next day. A $10~00 late fee Vri1l apply · to all others - no 'exetlptions. The selection of available ·campus housing is divided into three categories: co-qp-singles- doubles, triples and suites. There will be a meeting to eiq>lain the selection process for co-ops on May 4. A member of the Office of Residence Life will answer all questions about the co-op lottery at this meeting. The remainder of the campus 11ousing will be selecteP, ac- .cording to class year and by the _ lottery number assigned to each student. Singles Lottery.: . The senior with the lowest lottery nunlber (no. 1) will have first choice of av~Uable singles. The senior With the next lowest lottery number (no. 2) will have the second choice. If some .singles have not been selected :and there ·are no mare seniors present;: the-.j,unioJ: pres~nt with the lowest. number - Will have first choice< -ofc.th~ remaining single~. _ ·.mlis pt;oc~ss will cOntinue until all singles have· been selected or no eligible student is present to 'select a . single. Double and Suite Lottery: \ The lottery for doubles, triples, and suites will conclude the process. The sophomore lottery will be held first, followed by the junior lottery, and finally, the senior lottery. The class member present with the lowest lottery number wil have first pick. The class member with the next lowest lottery number, and present, will follow. When a suite, triple any of the roommates do not or double is selected, all sign the contract when the ro<lm roonunates MUST BE present or suite is selected. All oc- and all MUST SIGN CON- cupants of a room or suite who TRACTS. There must be four are found to have cheated will students (not three or two or on·) lose any right to a room or suite. to chose a suite. When Additionally, the person(s) who selecting a triple there must be cheated will be fined $100. Point three (not two or one) room· of interest: class standing is mates. The room or suite will be determined by the nwnber of placed back into tile lottery if nedits receive(} at the end of · - the winter term - no exceptions. \-

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, . May 5, 1988 AR1.,S & FILMS Tonight! \Pippin\! By KATE BOYD Arts Editor 1 saw. a sneak preview of ~·Pippin\ ... tonight y<•ll can :see the opening performance yo11rself. I know ifs great, shouldn't you? Randi Goldstein, di :ector of \Pippin has g me to tremendous length to \Jring her second musical to Union College. While last year's ''Godspell\ was a smash, this year's production has the extra polish of a more experienced director. The cast of 19 undergraduates and production staff · ·Of 21 students and faculty after 10 weeks of r~hearsals and work has put together a production that is absolutely worth ~eeing. From war, to orgies, to tr.ue love \Pippin'' moves at an exciting pace. The acting, dancing, and singing which help to examine these extremes of life and death are outstanding. Union Coll~ge is very forttu1ate to ' have such talent and dedication fill the Nott. , . \Pippin\ is the story of Charlemagne's son's search for the 'superlative.' The musical begins after Pippin's graduation from the University of Padua. Foreshadowing what many seniors will go through this JWie, Pippin is over- whehned by the tulcertainty of his future. Pippin doesn't know what to d~ or where to go. But having recognizeQ himself as ·extraordinary' Ptppin dedicates his life to the pursuit of the superlative. It is the conquest which propels Pippin into his various extreme ad- veBtures. · The ensemble of eleven players is led by Andy Livernois (also the musical director) who as Leading Player is both en- ticing and evil. The ensemble works together beautifully and in the ultimate sense of 'team' strive (and succeed) to make a winner out of a \light musical comedy.\ Dressed m brilliant, sparkling costumes {put together by Jean Beaty) With exaggerated clown make- up the players offer Pippin the superlatives of life and death-sex, murder, ex- citement, war, and magic. Pippin seduced by the prospect of the extraordinary allows himself to be directed and led by the Leading Player. Pippin, having completed his education, returns home to his father's house. Marc Howard with his outstanding voice and acting faithful to the musical genre breathe~ life into the powerful emperor character. Charles is both a motivating and destructive force in Pip- pin's life as he serves as role model for the 'ultimate.' Following his father's footsteps, Pippin goes off to war. Pippin be~..:omes disenchanted with war as he finds the con- ARTS BRIEFS At the Cap.lto1 Rep Theater: Larry Shue's hirlarious and romantic comedy \The Nerd\. May 7 to June 12 Tues-Fri. at 8 pm, Sat at 4:30 and 9 pm, and Sun at 2:30 p.m. · At Caffee Lena: folk singer Cindy Mangsen. May 6 and 7 at 8:30 p.m. At Proctor's: the modern dance extravegenza \Montlx.\ Thursday, May 5. 8 p.m. Tickets avail. able at the box office for $4.00. tradictions too unsettling. In the outrageous war scene in which bc.dies and limbs are scattered everywhere for the promotion of the 'right religion,' the C()ntradictions are ex:pressed in dance. In the dance, choreographed by Vera Orlock, Pippin and the players are battling, stepping over and on tllp of bodies in slow motion while the generals are tap dancing in the background. After the victory is called the S()ldiers joyously march off to 't:ape and pillage' but, much to the chagrin of Charles; Pippin will not join the celebration. Michael Hiller, as Pippin, is quite convincing as the disgruntled soldier. Prodded by the manipulative Leading Player and encouraged by Pippin's wise grandmother ·Berthe (admirab~y played by Melissa Bloom) Pippin dedicates himself to a life of · pleasure. Pleasure found in sex. · 'The erotic dance that follows, with especially terrific dance performances by Maria C. Lomanto and LeslieOmer, the brilliant use of a parachute as orgy bed cover,. and the mood enhancing red lights (light design by John Miller) is outrageous'. It is so outrageous it allows the audiece to concur with Pippin's rejection of this exaggerated seduction. Through various other misadventures Pippin exhausts politics, the arts, the clmrch as possible venues for· fulfillment. Finally it is Catherine (the multi-talented Andrea Mobilio) · and her son Theo (Doublas Diblasio) who introduce Pippin J D 0 l Mike Hiller, Mara Howard, Eric Gural of \Pippin\. to the joy .of domesticity. The dinnax is fantastic as Pippin is f6-:rced to decide between the CJr-d5nary life of husba11d and fitther or to continue his con- :;llJlning search fer the :supeerlative~ again :Michael IDIIer is excellent expressing P'iJ)pin's.struggle ·for fulfillment wllile striving to be happy. A.ndy Livernois and the rest of the: players are intense, fa11atically encouragillg Pip- J}lll's desire for the ultimate act. Eric Gural. and Annette F'raser are fantastic as the c:oi!Il.ic team of Lewis, the momma's boy and ''wanna-be'' lleir to tbe throne, and Fllstrada, the ultimate bitch \i'Vlno demonstrates that money, po-wer, and desire while ' perhaps 'superlatives' do not a happy person make. The set, designed by Michael Cseh, consists of multi-level boxes and steps that are arranged by the actors to make the perfe.ct set for the individual scenes. While the process is at times long, the audience is entertained by T;V. monitors which further the •taped before live audiertce' set motif. And in the end the effect is worth the process. The set, the costumes, the make-up, and the lighting enhance the commendable singing and acting of a dedicated cast lucky to be under the direction of Randi Gold- stein. ''Pippin\ is opening tonight. See it NOW! You're Invitee{ The IDOL, Union Collegeis literary mag - azine, invites everyone to a Jeception~ reading and refreshments- to celebrate and distribute the 1988 edition. Parents' Weekend, Saturday, May 7th 2:00-4:00 in Jackson's Gardens. At Proctor's: \The Canadian Brass.\ Friday, May 13 at 8 p.m. Tickets Available at the box office for $4.50. Parents ' . Weekend Broadway musical is being . · · · . · . · · • • • directed by Randi Goldstein '88 At Proctor's: the original musical \Mother I'm Here.\ May 7 .at 8:00 p.m. Tickets are $10.00 at the Proctor's box office at 346-6204. By JAN GOLDSTEIN Arts Editor All God's Chillun Got Wings, presented by the Black and Latin Alliance of Students (BLAS) and the student theatre ~OTtl[l!.l'~ 11[1![ ' SATURDAY, MAY 7 at 8:()0 P.M. A ML18lCAL Ctl.[BUA.TION MOTHER, I'M HERE! Written and directed by Maria Ricci:o Bryce. Proctor's Theatre, Schenectady, N.Y. Y.W.C.A. 1 OOth: Anniversary Celebraiion. Admission-General, $1 o; Patron with champagne reception, $25. Tickets may be purchased at the Proctor's Box . - .. . Office - 345-6204, All Suburban Carl Company 5=1)1Wcl-OU'S · J stores· .orome Sound; Schenectady· Y.W.C. A t: TI1E.~ TUr . _ ' . . . . · . · · · ..:.\' e:::;y~d 374 3394, and all Commumty Box Off1ces. ~ ___.. ,,w.,.,. \...._ .. ,;::-;, . ~~ ~-]~·-: '~ ~ ~-:;elk -~- ...... -:~ ~~. ~ ~·[(·It .x~/ \\\'- .· . ,,; .. ,. . ~::: '' ........ _..,.. . .. .. - \'·\\ .. ~ . ,,, . .,~ group Mountebank:s, will be and is scheduled to be.staged at performed on May 6 and 7 at 7 the Nott Memorial Theatre. p.m. Tbis drama of forbidden Performances are to take place love by Eugene O;Neill is being May 5th and 6th at 8 p.m. and directed by Miche-lle Maratoo 7th at 9:30 p.m. Other '89 and produced with presentations of \Pippin\ can assistance by the Arts beseenMayll-14at8p.m. Department. The show this For those who wish .for a little weekend is a work-in-progress more musical entertainment, a production and will be concert by the Union College presented later in tlte month in Choir and Orchestra is being its finished state. Admission is held on Saturday, May 7th at 8 free and the performances will p.m. On Sunday, May 8th the take place at Old Chapel. · Union College Concert Band Resexvations must be made by will perform at 11:30 a.m. Both calling 37()..6153. concerts will be held at Pippim will also be shown this Memorial Chapel and are free weekend. The popular to'thepublic. WRUC ;19.7 TOP 1.97 FOR WEEK .OF 5!7/88 Thomas Dolby's new alburn sweeps the boar<!s after only one week on WRUC, with. ;l:IIJQY Marley In the .number ti'IO spot after only twq, The Smithereens ce>me back after a short $sence,. and Boom crash Opera loses ground after being In the top 8.97 lor a couple of weeks. J()e Jackson has an amazing new live al:lum out-; listen for It In the noxt iowweeks. 1. Thomas Dolby Aliens Ate My Buick EMI \- 2. Zlggy Marley Conscious Prty Virgin 3; Prlmltlv.a Ple<~sure Jupollar Remota Citadel 4. Smithereens Green Thoughts Capitol 5. Tile Bears Rise and Shine MCA 6. Tlcla Incredible •Casuals That's That Rounder 7. Barbarian Lovers Fatal Embrace Blue City 8. Arrns Akiinbo This Is Not The Late Show 688 8.97 BIQom Crash Opera Warner Top .Aclda:. Joe Jac:k.~>on (live 1980/86}, S_,ona Laing, Soup Dragons, Social Dlstortlon,Aclventure Plcke: AD's, The Sale, The LlghlsProgrammlllg Notee: Special programrillhgle alive aodiNell at WRUC. On WRUC thursday, May 5the eve of the student· forum elecitons, WRUC will be airing a live debate between candidates. In 'addition to questions asked by ouJ 2 moderators, we will be taking phone calls I romour llstanlng .audletlCe, The debate will b(lgln promptly at 9:15 Pill· · .. , ,,

, ) ~ t e i r [1 e a e g 8 ie d ;h lt ~e CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page 19 -v.····.···.··· .. '.- .... ··.·.··· .. ··· ' . -·· ... · . :p. - .. . , ... -- .... ~ - .. Concert Review . The Al·arm Em.erges By JOHN MORGAN Lead singer Mike Peters led the way as The Alarm took raw energy into their hands, thrashed about, captured the hearts of the gathered masses and molded rock solid music at The Chance, in Poughkeepsie, on Wednesday. F·eaturing ~ongs from Eye of the liurricane, the quartet's latest album, and their 1985 release, Strength, all of the· show's elements were livelier than vinyl (or disk) allows one to imagine. The Alarm is struggling to emerge a~ a force in popular music, taking the aame route as U2. The current tour of the States is likely to do more. for The Alarm's musical reputation than Hurricane -- which delivered little in the way of notable music. However, the vocal depth of the band, evidenced by guitarist Pave Sharp aad bassist Eddie MacDonald's lyrical con- tributions, and the force of the stage show are enticingly not.ic.ea ble. The show opened with \Strength\ and \Knife Edge,'' both from Strength. Peters' showmanship had the crowd in a frenzy - singing along with \Kn'ife ·Edge'' - before he even broke a sweat. ''Newton Jericho\ was performed superbly, minus the slick production effects present on tbe studio rendition. Several of The Alarm's tunes quite obviously lend themselves to live performance; ''J.ericho'' falls into this categpry, but the more obvious example is ''Sixty Eight Guns.\ The dr·amatic pauses and its length ~almost six minutes) does not enhance repeated listening, but blazing lights, blaring sound and Peters' athletic gyrations make it a natural for live per- formances. During \Rain in tbe Sum- mertime\ -- The Alarm's closest thing to a pop anthem - Peters threw cup after cup of water toward the ceiling-to the delight to those in front of the stage but to the chagrin of the sound man who just couldn't Theatre Etiquette Mountebanks is planning to have a busy Parents' Weekend~ Any Jtind student who would be willing to give up their tickets or reservations this weekend for waiting parents should call the Nott at x6153. Tickets are still available .for May 11, 12, 13J and 14. Please do not wait until the last night to see Pippin; there are performances Wednesday and Thursday nights• .(cH-12) as well as Friday and Saturday (13~14). All \God's Chillun\ performances are eighth week in the Nott. The Parents' Weekend performances are a special preview \work-in- progress.\ In order to insure pleasant and orderly performances of \Pippin\ and \All God's Chillun Got Wings,\ we would like to ask you to abide by the · following theatre etiquette: 1. Arrive at least one-half hour before curtain. (All God's Chilltm is at 7 pm and Pippin is at 8 P!ll on Friday and 9:30 pm on Saturday.) 2. Please, no flash photography. 3. No smoking in the Nott Memorial. 4. No food or drink in the theatre ·or. performing space. 5. Do not\go backstage before or · after the performance or during intennission. 6. Do not distract the per- formers by talking to neighbors or performers. throwing items, unnecessary , movement, making faces, or rustling programs. · 7. Do not walk across the stage or touch anything on the stage. Thank you very much, The Mountebanks Crossg.ates Cinema Mall -------. - Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 ..,.The Fox & Tile Hound 1 :50 2 Seventh Sign 3 School Daze 4 Blo9d Sport 5 Milagro Bean Field 6 Colors 7 Salsa 8 Above The Law 9 Dead Heat 10 Beetlejuice 11 Casual Sex 12 Shakedown 13 Biloxi Blues 14 Sunset 4:35, 7:45, 10:30 1:45 4:50, 7:30, 10:00 12:55, 3:50, 6:55, 9:45 1 :15, 4:05, 7:10, 10:05 1 :30, 4:30, 7:20, 9:50 1:25, 4:15, 7:40, 10:15 1 :20, 4:10, 7:00, 9:35 1:05, 3:35, 6:45t 9:15 12:30, 3:15,. 6:25, 9:00 12:50, 3:45, 6:40, 9:25 12:35i 3:10, 6:20, 9:10 12:40, 3:25, 6:15, 8:50 . 12:30 12:10 12:20 12:35 12:00 12:25 ' 11:50 11:35 11:25 11:55 11:40 11:30 keep the board dry. The set concluded with \Spirit of '76,.\ an outstanding song that is just too long~ without the thrill of ·being amongst a croWd that defines the energy of rock 'n roll. The fact that the Welshmen could do no · wrong was ev:idenced by their initial en· ARTS-& FILMS Welsh rock group The Alarm core. Their medley of \Stair- way to · Heaven,\ \Pinball Wizard\ and \My Generation\ was strictly corny, but ended up being widely appreciated. The Chance, a souped up Vaudeville theatre, provides a condusive atmosphere for concerts. The intimate at- mosphere. adds to the ex- citement of a lhre performance and maintains the acoustic excellence .... on the level of the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall - for louder acts. Their handling of the drinking. age allows ac- cessibility to .top notch musieal acts for an over 18, though the 21 crowd looks as if they jllSt emerged from the hospital - Mbeit. with an ear to ear smile. More WRUC (89.7) Record Reviews ByCHIAPET Prefab Sprout From Langley Park to Mem· pbis Epic. Records . The photograph on the cover · ofPrefabSprout'slatest release From Langley .Park to Mem- phis may turn your stomach. It ls, ·unfortunately, a fairly · shallow photo of the group. . Once you get beyond the card- board and paper and find the vinyl, however, you will find some of the deepest grooves this quartet has ever cut. Although Prefab Sprout is a single entity, the man behind the amazing lyrics and music is Paddy McAloon, the guitarist - . - f By CEVIN SOLING Gneander.thal Spongecake The Best of Sludge Records Every now and then, an unknown band will take the world by storm. This will 1ll1· doubtedly be the case when the world gets to hear Gnean• derthal Spongecake's debut album \The Best of Gnean- derthal Spongecake: Superflous Mucouss' on Sludge Records. The songs have a rough edge t'(> them which is a welcome relief from the trend towards over- production that has been common in the 80's. Con- sequently, the soothing melodies and intricate interplay Union College Jazz Ense·mble Come and hear us on Sunday, May 8 at 12:00 Noon in Memorial Chapel OPENING ACT: UNION COLLEGE WIND ENSEMBLE AT 11:00 A.M. and lead vocalist for the unit. He has an incredible poetic abilitY to enchant the listener with a soft tale of blissful distress. The amazing part is that the listener doesn't leave his-her audio unit covered with tons and tQns of sticky:, sappy syrup. This is not a corny, cheesy album, fqlks. This is true. . beauty. S..ongs like~ \.Cars . and -Girls,\ which -sayS' that 1ifEfisn'f · as simple as fast cars and cute girls, (as a young Mr. Springsteen would have you believe), and \Venus of The Soup Kitchen,\ with its references to down and out veterans of a war of sorts leave the listener feeling very warm and cozy, just like a bowl of oatmeal ~n a cold~ rainy day. of guitars is never drowned out. The album's opening track, \Swamp Gas,\ is arguably their best, however, there is something interesting and in- novative in all of the subsequent songs. The group's song-writer and rhythm guitarist was originally of Captaine Ptomaine and the· Electric Enemas after which he formed the very psychedelic band Polyester Marmalade. Due ~o . copyright Fans of boppy dance music may find this album hard to digest atfirst. It is slow: Prefab Sprout is a soft rock band. The power of their music has kept them away from elevators and dentist offices. Prefab Spr()ut has been described as tpe Steely Dan of the 1980s and is also Thomas Dolby's favorite band to. produce. (we all know Thomas Qoll)y _,can do no wrong). . > Granted this album takes more than one listening to trllly appreciate it. By the fourth or fifth listen, however, you will be in love with it. There is som- mething on this album for the true connoiseurs of the filler things in life that take time; things more important than ketchup. disputes they had to chmge their name to Inhumane Piz2a, but broke up shortly af- terwards. The album in no way ~fleets this shaky past. 'I'he songs are solid and rank among the best music that has been produced in this decade. Sponges, as their fans are known, have been waiting a long time for this one, and from the sound of it, they will not be disappointed. DANCE CLUB PRESENTS uwhose side are you on?'' · Fridqy, May 6, 10-12 pm old Chapel during the Apollo Show 1) Something is in the air tonight -choreographed by Stephanie Cooper 2) Ode to a Great Leader- Martin Luther King -choreographed by Keshia Gadson Saturday, May 7, 4-5 pm Arts Bid., -PAS during parents weekend program 1 )Nuclear War ·---choreographed by Keshia Gadson 2) Ode to a Great Leader-Martin Luther King Sunday, May 22nd, 2 pm-3pm Arts Bid. -PAS 1 )Nuclear War . 2) Dde to a Great Leader-Martin Luther King 3)Someth_ing is in the air tonight 4)No more anything- choreographed by Keshia Gadson 5)Why should we care?- choreographed by Keshia Gadson .~

CONCO:lUJIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page 20 ····:-.·.··:.··· .•. ·I Campus News··.· . •• <· • ,,,,~t~:===~~~Mt~::;:t~:t=ftttr::~::~:~:l=·~'t\=:='''''''''''''''t'''''''/::;,,,,,,,,,,,:,,,,,,.,~,,.,::: .... ,.,::,,::::,.,,,.,,.,:,,,., ,: ... · ..... · .... ··· .. ,:, .... ,., ..... , ... ,. ,: .. =· :< ....• .·=. . ••• , •· · ..•.. The Union College Child Care Center is now accepting ap- plications for next fall's registration. The Center provides care for children between 18 months· and 5 years old. First priority goes to children of Union employees and students, but families not affiliated with Union may also apply. Registration deadline for fall is May 20. For infor.mation and a registration form, can Suzie Benack, X625S or 346-7001 Help wanted soon with all types of work connected with a furniture store. Need a strong individual perhaps one who can drive a van. 823 Eastern Ave. 347-7785. Apply now for part-time work this summer and/ next fall! Students needed to work on Fortune 500 Company's Marketing Programs on campus. 3-4 flexible hours each week. Call today: 1-801l- S21-1543. Job opening-Two sales consultants needed part-time Monday - Thursday 4 - 8 and some Saturdays. Call Jim Mann at The Roadrunner 370· 1200. Interested in politics? Make it pay with Citizen Action. Now hiring canvassers to work on environmental and consumer campaigns. 2 - 10 p.m. $190 to $250 per week. Pay training. can John 465-4:600. PUT YOUR PROFESSOR IN JAILI THE SOT JAIL To Ziggy, the short billed loon, Nera,Laura, Tina, Becky, Chia ?et, Pref. Holbrook: The carnptLs couldn't have been polled.'Without you. Thanks. Spacious, unique single . available for summer sublet. ~DJK Great location on University • Place. For info. call370-40'70. LittleLina, WritEUin BLOOD! House sitting situation Love, Little Jill wanted. older returning . • student, single. Please contact •. John McGuire c/o Civil • Engineering Dept. Call ext. , 6262. as soon as possible. JaniE E., Sticks and stones may break mybones ... subtle huh? Love, Jill !: Dutch Colonial for sale by · owner. 4 bedroom, P 1 2 bath. 1092 Brierwood Blvd. $130,000. Walking distance to Union. Call 377-0006. Cheerleading tryouts for football. All welcome. Meet Monday 5/9 at 4 :30 in student center. Problems call Krista 4156 or Jen 4295. Every second counts when 1 am 'With you. I think you are a pig, yoa. should be in a zoo. Don amd Mark, W oeclluldn 't leave you out! Love, Jill and Lina HEY UNION CREW Only 'll. week 'til the Vails! Dad, 1' did not know that was humanly possible on a roller coaster, log flume, ferris wheeL .. TOP 10 QUOTES OVERHEARD ON PARENTS WEEKEND . . By TMV a111d DJK D 1 0. \Have you met any nice (insert ethnicity/religion) boys/girls yet?\ · C 9. \How are you and your roommaJe getting along?\ D 8. HYou're not in any trouble, are . you?'' [J 7. \Well I could use a couple bucks.\ · D 6. \Now what is this Fitzhugh thing?\ D 5. \In-fact-it's the 011ly 16 sided building in this hemisphere.\ D 4. \Your Uncle Louie contacted us about the summer job.\ WILL ·BE IN LIBRARY . 0 3. \When was the last time you went to Church?\ D 2. \We got the tui1ion increase notice in the maiL\ D 1.-\Honest Ma-l haven't touched a drop.\ . . .. · ·> *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men Tannmg Spec1al 1st Visit Free Weekly 6 Visits $6.95 T drlll,f•(J Special 50 Visits '$49.95 Tanmng Sculptured Spec1al Nails & T1ps · 100 Visits $24.95 1 $75.00 reg 3& oo with U~ion I.D. Wallf-fns Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady PLAZA. Friday May 13th. (Free fr~e to use this as a checklist as the weekend goes by.) ~============~====~-------r-----------·-- Stop by our table at the College Center .. on Wednesday · May 11th and Thursday May 12th Proceeds will go to the This is your brC:\n a. e 1his b-0:\n \5 Th\s \s breo.k-\o...s~. <t,U:esHons? J1W I l National Prevention of Child Abuse. ~~--~------------~--~--------~~,------

I \ / -.... CONCORDIENSIS, May 5, 1988 Page 21 ;mrn;;rn;J . · · OnJy 15 more days until the DG· ·M- I don't like being f.:.t .a:p 10 public, PDA, THO. You have •the cutest b- Hi Ed. Hi Jay. Hi everyone. Are you l»u~y? Kill. No glazed donuts. It's Dead J. It's an. inside joke. Love thebowtie. H:adagreattime. S Sarah~ it is nice to have you home! Brian, welcome to Union1 Love, Kat& Sue Olympics!! The DG. Olympics wHl take place May 20 .from 1:30- 4:00 on therugby fie1d. Who. is~ Behind Blue(?) eyes. SKW4 We :voted and you won hottest redhead over 5;8\. We love you! Groupies E:xcuse me Scott,. I may be wrong, but it seems to me we were on .a luxury waterbed, whereas you were just wet! WeCcome Parents ou,• .. • .... ~·,:o, :From YL{{ 51..t 'Dinittg Services - 9{ave JZL ·yreat- Wee~ndl 'Union Co[{ege 'Dining Services COF~ .. IIBE/7 50M6 COF'ffe- .r.IAIIAL .. tJt.IICK ... \ .· -.·· ...... :: ··:-. Boys- You know how it is when men can't .get- <>h, sorry, I just got <;!arried away! -Berthe Whales, Tales, Prince of the Holy Roman Empire, Pippin calls Freud! Beige, I think ... -Berthe Back to the womb/inertia of mud coming soon! ! ! Space- He looked like another cleancut Catholic hoy to me .... I'll bet you went dancing! Ricer, How about a trip to Albany ... That is if we can af- ford the 20 cents yet? :\ SquidandVuls, What's the deal. .. is it spring termyetorwhat?! Formal apology: I said a lot of things I had neither right nor business to .say. Monday night was a shock to me. I am deeply R t Stan, w~ ' alw~ys knew you were · Thanks for the \little piece of . number 1!! !Take the heaven\! By the way, do you ' basement... it's where all the alwaysrnake that much noise? sorry. · best r-ats !lang out! pretzel SAK and Boots\\\ Next· time we go out, we'll eat . slow and fall asleep in your rooms! -tlle twotelepathetics WV~After Monda:y;s .practice -we know that Vassar's wake Stupid little plllllpki.Uheads, We were just kdding, you're, not NIB's, you're pledges tor life. SAKanan will never beat ours ... and your , CAandMA.(M.LT.s) mind goes¥:0! • Aerobics tomorrow? Sure. Just SPAM IS BACK!! 1 one beer ? Sure. Are you 21? Sure. FINESTSTEAKS,PRIME RIB, SEAFOOD &CAJUN SPECIALTIES OUR DAILY LIGHT APPETITE MENU: CAJUN CHICKEN BREAST OR $750 PORK CHOP (GRILLED OR SLACKENED) · SLICED SIRLOIN $850 · GIANT SEA SCALLOPS . •ALL MEALS INCLUDE SALAD, HOME BAKED BREAD, VEGETABLE AND CHOICE OF POTATO, CREOLE RICE OR WHITE RICE 901 McCLELLAN ST., SCH'DY .(COR. EASTERN PKWY.) PHONE HAPPY HOURS 4-6 DAILY 393-1532 10-12 FRI. & SAT. ~'!OVK50N 15 WC/1K/N{j liN tlfl?f<IN6.f \ Heykevin, . . If 1 purple is worth 4: blues, and 2 greens are worth 4: yellows, what is the probability that you get spaghetti AND sa~d AND vegetables? CABF I see a red door and I want it · painted black. · ' ChiaBong- Grow itand smoke .it. MandD, Where are we? Did we hit Sberbrooke y.et? Does anyone know any French? Where's the tower anyway? Quiche and crepes anyone? Hey, ARRET means stop! I'm happy. Are you? E A.V.-Working on thumbs up ... Thanks. -··K.S. Hide needed to Penn State any weekend. Will pay expenses. Call Joanne at382·7860. Get psyched for the .swingle life, Kelley! Personally yours ... To Skusie-Qucumber ... Senior year spring term is the best with you. Next time, let's check the alcohol content by volume. L.A., L. Thanks to everyone who helped me surv:ive the MCAT's and the events thereafter! -R.J. CRat, Pizza, love, and flour. Me lis MaryAnn Let's dirty dance on the tables! Thanx: for the tip. Luv, Your Crush S.B. . Judelbug ... Wake me up before you go-go! Ferris-okay, so when are we really going to play soccer?£ Mike M.-Congrats on that k .. ·y. Who is the wimp now D.M.LS .(Thought I'd say it fory ·L l Little Steven i Stephen l-Don't let it get in the way of our friendship. And don't go get baked either. Kath- Your killer worked well, eh? We should have played it right, too, Perhaps you'd still be alive Beck LOOK FOR THE ALL CAMPUS SHOT MAY 20 WEST BEACH r. .

Page 22 . CONCORDIENSIS, Olnncnr~iensls SPORTS · WOULD. HAVE LOVED US! sy·.-OMEN'S.LACROSSE T· TEAM The spectators were filling in the standS and the players were ready. Friday, Apri129, 1 p.m., the Union Women's Lacrosse team, entering the New York State Women's Lacrosse toUrnament seeded in sixth place, opposed in the third seed, the St. Lawrence Saints. Union took the lead jm- mediately with a goal by Debbie · ''Bodie\ Hodin scoring the first goal on an assist from megan Kennedy. The game took an exciting turn in Union's favor. The spectators cheered as the women Dutchman ended the half with a &4lead. point on the battle was to remain neck and neck. It was a tight match., climaxing in an incredible save by goalie Lynda. Hynes with two secondS left in regulation playing time resulting ina HHOtie. The game went into a six minute overtime, which ended with each team scoring one goal. The next playing period was a six: minute sudden death, in which St,. Lawrence put the winning goal in the net during the last minute on the clock. St. Lawrence defeated Union 12-11. Overall the strong offense and defense wor.ked well as a unit to make an impressive showing against the number 2 division III seed in New York State. Co- captain, Courtney Lynch was named to the aU-tournament team. Attack player Megan ~ Kennedy and ·goalie Lynda =: Hynes were also strong can,. ~a::z didates. · St. Lawrence continued on to 5 the . finals against William ffi Smith where they were a:: defeated by one goal in another ~. close match. The Women's Ill Lacrosse team deserves § congratulations for their fi: The competition was intemse as St. Lawrence challenged the lady laxers, evening the score in the second .half 9-9. An ex- citing passing sequence by tbe Union defense rejuvinatad the team's attack, but from this Kristen Ryan awaits a teammates' pass. commendable performance at the State tournament. Netrninder lynda Hynes .keeps a sharp eye on the baJL MINIMAL FROM FORD TO ASSIST WITH YOUR DOWN PAYMENT. GIV.E YOURSELF A NEW F.ORD FOR GRADUATION. YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERVE IT! PU *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 791 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489-5414 Varsity Athletes should pick up their tickets to the Block U Banquet in the Administrative office of Alumni Gym by Friday, May 6. the BanquerwHI be held Wednesdayt May 18 at the College Center. Hat Tri,cks Spark 'Laxmen ByGREGGOETZ It was an. up and down week for the Union College men's lacrosse team. Last Wedne,!!lday evening, Union hosted local rival, the RPI Engineers and defeated them, 9-5. Union assumed an early lead and never looked back. The Dut- chmen controlled the tempo. and dominated RPI as tbey were able to hold the ball in the Engineers' end of the field for five straight minutes in the third quarter. The Dutchmen werepaced.by attackman Phil Horn and John Keller who each tallied a bat trick with Horn also adding an assist. Other contributions were Dave DeBardinis (1,0), Nick Baratoff (1,0) and Pete Cotier chipped in with two assists. All· American candidate JC>hn Thorne was great in gC>al, turning back 14 shots by the engineers. Senior defensemen Gary Coorniek and Greg Leahey played well, leading tbe checking. of the Engineer at· tack. This victory brought the Dutchmen's record to 5-7. Support On Saturday evening, the Colgate Red Raiders v.isited the turf and beat Union 7 ..;5 in a close, intensely .played game. There was a large, boisterous turnout cheering Union and razzing the bald Colgate eoach who many f()otball and lacrosse players remember as the Tooper from his coaching days here at Union. The Red Raiders held a tenuow; lead thoughout the contest as the Dutchmen were always able to mount a comeback and make the game's outcome uncertain until the final nlinutes when Colgate added a security goal. Senior co-captain Horn led Union with 2 goals and an assist. Attackmen Keller and Baratoff contributed 2 and 1 goals respectively, and defensemen Pat Lawson added an assist on an exciting fast break capped off by Horn. Goalie Thorne played very well and was a _major reason the Dutchmen were in contention of beating the visiting Red Raiders. This loss drops Union's record to 5-8. Union Sports MAKE TRACKS ---....A!lll~\----• ·. 1\11€. ·· ~ttanuer~ c.enTE.IL- .. - .. . ... .. Mon~-Fri. 2-4:·30 Sun ..... Thurs. 7..-10

With .A·. ,· Perspecti··ve ,On: S:po:rts By ~DREW MILLER Sports Editor Cincinnati Reds manager Pete Rose was. levied the most sincere penalty ever sanc- tioned to a Major League Baseball manager for on-field activities. National League President A. Bartlett Giamatti suspendeclRose for 30 days and fined him an unspecjfiedsum of money for his April 30 alter\ cation with ,first ·base umpire Dave Pall()ne. · The league action stems from the sl;lovmg incident th!'lt took place in Saturday's Mets-Reds .game. According to the National Le~gue Press Agency the suspension is a result of Rose's \forceful and deliberate shoving\· .of · umpire Dave Pallone. The league called Rose's actions \one of the worst'' manager-umpire disputes in recent memory. Rose says he will appeal the suspension. liis appeal will allow him to continu~ managing until a decision is rendered. Rose stormed out of the Reds' dugout after Pallone called the Mets base runner, Mookie Wilson, safe at first on a very close play. The runner aP'\ peared to be out by a step but Pallone called hlm safe, claiming the· Reds' first baseman, Nick Es~sky's foot was off the bag. On the play, the eventual winning run was allowed to score. The argument between Pallone and Rose 'heated up as the first base wnpire allegedly poked Rose in \the eye.. Rose . proceeded to shove Palloae twice, and was forci~ly restrained from going after PaUone. The game was del~yed 15 minutes when fans. bombarded Pallone and the other referees with debris. The incens~d fans threw everything from cups to lighters to portable radios. The entire officiating crew were forced into the clubhouse as a protective measure. When play resumed 15minutes later it was without the services of Pallone who decided not to return. Rose said he was ''shocked by the length of the suspension I received.\ The suspension is the mom: severe on-field penalty to a manager in basebaH history. In 1947 Brooklyn Dodger manager Leo Durocher was suspended for the entire 1947 season as a result of his known association with un- derworld gambling figure.s. National Leag11e President Bart Giarnatti also · critic~ed Cincinnati Broadcasters Marty Brennaman and Joe NUXhall. The League !eels that Bren- naman's an(j. Nuxhall's com- ments incited the fans .and led to \the unacceptable behavior.'' Rose was noted as a player for his bard-hitting, aggressive style. His win-at-all-costs at- titude is best exemplified by his career debilitating knock-down of catcher Ray Fosse in the All- . Star game. &se is the game's all-time hit leader with 4:,256. He is a baseball · living legend and destined for the Hall of Fame. So is the 30-day suspension too strict a penalty? A baseball manager, or any manager for that matter, is supposed to be the controlling influence on a team. To see Rose lose his cool in front of all his players and millions of fans and viewers is unfortunate. The League hadto impose. a penalty. A 30-day suspension seems ilnduly harsh for the team and the fans. Rose will Il}iss around 27 games. The teaniwill be affected. For Rose the man, the penalty fits the crime. The shoving incident was uncalled for and un- professional. Rose is an example to his players and the millions Qf fans who follow baseball. The living legend should learn to control his . emotions, or at least his fists, and live up to the expectations that accompany greatness. CONCORDIENSJS, May S, 1988 Page 23 Qtnn·cor~itnsis .SPORTS Ruggers· Mount a Successful Attack on Ithaca By JOSHDERECHIN Saturday was a long day for ; the Ithaca Lone Stars rugby • · team as the Mailmen from •: Union delivered a 16.-o beating · • to Ithaca on the Lone Star's , hOme pitch. Although the Mailmen had a great deal ()£ new faces on the \A'' side, they played as a single unit. A pair of tries each by Steve Neiditz and Andy Sobel, coupled with sanguine hits by rookie tet• minators Matt Taylor and Dave Austin, provedtoo much. for the Lone Stars. The game was Ithaca's last ofthe season and it marked the. second time they were shut out by Union this season. The first contest was a 17.;() drubbing three weeks ago. in this .contest, Union jumped outto a 4-0 lead. The score came as sophomore Steve Neiditz bolted around the outside of Ithaca defense. The score came off a Union serum down in which rookie serum half, Jamie Janawitz, and veteran backfield Fortin,. Derechin, and M\12- zonigro combined with .four quick passes to get the ball out to the. speedy little Neiditz. Unfortunately, Chris Sheridan missed the point after attempt · which was at a very difficult angle. The second try came midway through the first half off a kick by Ithaca's fullback. The kick was received by prop Rob Dodge who immediately recognized a two on one situation from his slimmer days when he was a back. Dodge · drew in his man and then passed the ·pill to Andy Sobel, who ran the fmal 10 meters into tne corner of the try zone before being pummeled by three Ithaca ruggers. Unfortunately, · Sheridan bungled the kick again. Thethirdtry came late in the half. Sheridan got the ball close to the try Z{)ne by a long run off after a penalty. The Ithaca ruggers were unable to tackle the charging Sheridiiin until he tried to htu'dle the last man and was tripped up~ Union managed to keep the ball down in the Lone Stars' end and Steve N eiditz punched in his second try of the garne on a play that was a carbon copy of his first score; The second half saw Andy Sobel score his, second try and Union's last score of the game. Union got the ball deep into Ithaca territory due to a penalty by one of the Lone Stars and a marvelous acting job by John Gobron. Sobel received the ball from Kevin Fortin and broke several tackles on his way to the · try. Itha.£_a threatened late in the half as their fastest player picked up the ball With 70 yards of daylight in front of him. However, Tom Muzzonigro chased down the rugger and tackled him on the 10 meter line. This play extinguished all of Ithaca's hope for a comeback. · Union used many new players ·~the game. The injury plagued backfield was aided by select side fly half from Clarkson,. Kevin Fortin and his brother Keith. Jamie· Janawitz did an excellent job at getting the ball out to the backs in his first 'A' side game. Tim Mathews, also playing in his· first 'A' game did a fine job at wing and almost scored on two separate occasions in the first half. 'l'oby Overdorf split time at hooker with Steve Bordonaro. . Overdorf dished out some punisllment that reminded one of the Terminators. Brendon PoUack, rookie second row, bowled over players and won several line-outs throughout the game.· Captain Sheridan spoke highly of him after the game. The 'B' game was also won by Union as most of the 'A' players had to play. Several of the 'B' players did not make the venture to Ithaca. The game was marked by a misfortunate ,incident in which 'A' side booker Steve Bordonaro, who was playing art excellent game, had his .face stepped on in a ruck by one of his own players. \Bordo\ sustained stitches below the left eye and a banged and bloody nose. Union was fortunate to have Fall Serum Captain Jody :Perkins and injured veteran back Spud. We bbonthe sidelines during the game. They both had a few things to say about the serum and line. Perkins, a former outstanding wing for- ward, said that the Terminators were very impressive and he said that they reminded him of Union Alumni John Friske and Jim McNeil, who were forwards when Union won the Upstate Tournament three years -ago. He also said that Pat Dicerbo, who played wing forward in the 'B' -game played like he had been at that position for his Whole Union career~ \He did everything right,.\ said Perkins. When Jody was asked about how he thought everyone else did, he said, \I don't know, I only watched the wing for- wards.\ Spud Webb was very im- pressed by the backs saying that he could not believe how fast they were getting the ball to the outside. He also said that the game looked like a scrimmage for the Mailmen who were too strong for the Lone Stars. Don't forget to come to the game this Saturday against Hamilton at 1 p.m. on Library Field. A Look at the Pro .. Piayoff Picture NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION Whales Conference Devils vs. Boston 5/2 Boston-5; Devils-3 5/4 at Boston 7:45 pm 5/6 at Devils 7:45 pm 5/8 at Devils 7:45pm *5/1'0 at Boston 7:30pm *5/12 at. Devils 7:45pm · *5/14 at Boston 7:30pm *if necessary ·~ Campbell Conference Oilers vs. Detroit Eastern Conference Boston vs. Knicks Chicago vs. Cleveland Boston 112 Knicks 92 Chi~go 104 Clevelarid93 5/4 Oilers won 5/5 at Oilers 517 at Detroit 5/9 at Detroit *5/11 at Oilers *5/13 at Detroit *5/15 at Oilers *if necessary Boston 128 Knicks 102 Chicago 106 Cleveland 101 9:35 pm 5/5 Boston at Knicks Chicago 102 Cleveland 110 9:35 pm • *516 at Knicks 8:30pm 5/5 at Chicago 8:05 pm1 . \518 at Boston TBA '5/8 at Chicago 8:05 pmr Detroit vs. Washington Atlanta ys. Bucks Detroit96 Wash. 87 Atlanta 110 Bucks 107 9 = 35 pm Detroit 102 Wash. 101 Atlanta 104 Bucks 97 B:OS pm · Detroit 114 , Wash. 106 5/5 at Bucks 9:35 pm Detroit Wins Series 3-0 '5/B at Atlanta . *at Milwaukee *if .neccessary 'at Atlanta Western Confe.rence Lakers vs. •Spurs Dallas vs. Houston Lakers 1,22 Spurs 110 1Dallas 1.20 Houston 110 Lakers 130 Spurs 112 1Houston 119 Dallas 108 Lakers 109 Spurs 107 tDallas 93 Houston 92 Lakers Win Series 3-0 !5/5 at Houston 8 pm Denver vs. Seattle ··517 at Dallas 3:30pm Denver 126 Seattle 123 Portland vs .. Utah Seattle 111 Denver 91 tPortland 108 Utah 96 Oenver125 Seattle 114 !Utah 114 Portland 105 '5/5 at Seattle 10:30 pm !5/4 at Utah 9:30pm '5/7 at Denver •'5/6 at Utah 9:30 pm 'if necessary ·'5/8 at Portland TBA ·'if necessa ZBT-~~~ TWISTIN' BY THE POOL RAFFLE Tickets on Sale Next Week At,the College·center · . All Proceeds To Support th~ STARLIGHT Foundation WIN: A Kohl.er Hot Tub for two Retail Price= $2500!!! WIN: Dinner, Lunch, or Gift Certificate to more than 20 Restaurants and Stores Don't Forget Great T-Shirts and Boxers on Sale Now ! . _·5:}·~ -. -'-------- ----- -

Elghtman Chris \Air\ Sheridan skies to gain control against lt:haca. (p. 23) Tony Amarante slides safely Into second after a bad throw by Albany. May 5,1988 A Tough Week Around the Bases Lady Tracksters Sweep Up Worcester By CARA TABACK Boston Celtics former coach, Bill Russell, once said, \My only feeling about superstition is that it's unlucky to be behind at the end of a game.\ This past week at central Park, Union baseball felt the sting of this remark as opposing teams scored a total of 49 runs to deliver three straight losses. Division I Siena seemed unimposing enou.gh by the end of the first, when Union pulled ahead 2-0, on a single by Bill Brundige and a triple by Tony Amarante, followed by an RBI single by Pat Secchiaroli to right. These two runs merely ignited Siena's spark as they went on to win 24«>. Ken Horan's defense was at its best as he made some fine Graig Nettles-like plays at shortstop. \Crowd pleaser\ Dave Giordano (wearing Nettles' old number 9) filled seats in the bleachers as well as seats on Siena's bench as he handed them their second in- ning of run-less baseball in eighth inning relief. In the next two games, Union defense turned over four double plays, for a total of nine on the year. Bill Brundige shined as be initiated two doubleplays against Albany State, and managed to remain above .400 in batting. Bill Weidman pit- ched three innings of·relief and allowed only one run by which time the score was 14-11 in favor of Albany. At the B diamond on Monday, because the game was a raindate, (the A diamond had. already .been scheduled for a . ·rr \'o/ . ~J~~ zy \ Shortstop Ken Horan game) Union hosted Hamilton~ The mysterious location proved quite surprising to some ; fans went to Albany searching for the game, one .player went back to campus, and no umpires showed up at all. About forty minutes; and a phone call later, _everyone that was supposed. to be at the game was there. Hamilton struck early as they led 7-0 going ·into the fifth in~ ning. Mark Trudeau broke up a Hamilton no-hitter by starting off the fifth with a triple to center. The top .of the batting order than rallied with hits by Dave Anderson, Bill Brundige and Joe Mauro. Bob Anderson also had a great day as designated bitter, as he went 2 for 3. Four more runs in the bottom of the ninth kept the game interesting, but Hamilton won9-5. UTICA CLUB (Light) NOTES ... Beware blue pintos en route to games ... Scott Gold· smith saw his first pitching start in four years, against Hamilton . . .. 400-plus include Tony Amarante, Matt Hoover, Bill Brundige, Dave An· derson ... Anderson also leads the team in total bases with 42 ... Pat Secchiaroli looked strong behind the plate against Hamilton ... The idea for a domed stadium is being con- templated ... As the season winds down, Union is at home in a doubleheader against Rochester on Friday, a double header versus Hobart Satw·- day-Parentl!i' Weekend, and against Williams on Tuesday May lOth ... The last game of the regular season is Wednesday, the 11th, at Colgate. By THE TRACK TEAM ' The Union women's track team continues to roll on, as WPI, Southeastern Massa- chusetts, and Norwich became the latest teams to fall to them. Union scored 85 points to easily win Saturday'.s meet which was run on WPI's fast 11.- lane track. The track, which Coach Ebbets said was \downhill all the way around,\ helped several of the women to record-setting perfonnances. Terri Thomas scorched a 26.72 second, 200 meter time, leading Union to a 1·2 finish in that event. Meg . Parsons continued to approach the orte minute barrier in the 400 meter dash, as her school record now stands at 1:00.53 after her win on Saturday. Eileen Brady ran 5:02.28 to win the 150P, breaking her school record· even though she ran most of the race by herself. Union's 4 x 100 meter relay team of Parsons, Thomas, Denise McMillan, and Jen Lee, ran the other record of 52.1 seconds, which won that race. Thomas was a triple winner on the day, as she cleared 5 feet in the high jump to add to her other victories. . Union's depth clearly showed during the meet as the team Crew Teams Make Last Preparations for 'Dad-Vails' . was consistently able to-place two or three people in each event. Lee and Clare Lytle finished first and second in the 800 meters,. running 2:26.7 and 2:32.4, respectively. Union also finished J.-2 in the 400 hurdles, as freshman Liz Dobbs edged teammate Lorie Anderson by 0.4 seconds in running a 1:11.4. Kara Merrill took sec_ond for Union in the 3000 meter run by TAMRA TWBETS and LISA CLARK On yet another dreary Saturday morning, the Union Crew Team traveled to Lowell, Massachussets to challenge crews from UMASS, University of Lowell, Williams, and Tufts. As one of the last scheduled races of the season, Union was enthusiastic with hopes of winning one more race before the Dav Vails. Facing their strongest competition of the season, the Women's Varisty Four rowed a strong piece, yet finished just behind two crews from Williams artd one from University of Lowell. This crew hopes to repeat history by once again qualifying a Women's Varsity boat for the semifinals in Philadelphia. faced a heavy, and we mean heavy, crew from UMASS. Unable to catch the more ex- perieiJced UMASS crew, Union finished second. The W()men's lightweights are rallying with the intention of finishing tneir season with a strong per- formance at the Vails. Also plagued with injuries, the hard-working Men:s lightweight novice eight finished closely behind crews from UMASS, Lowell, Williams, and Tufts to place fiftll. This dedicated group of men are also looking to better their record with a powerful showing at the Dad Vails. as an important contender in the finals of the Vails. The men's varsity lightweight four rowed a very aggressive race, but victory alluded them as they finished c~osely behind a crew from Lowell. When these · talented oarsmen pull it together they could prove to be Union's most powerful secret weapon. The highlight of Union's day occurred as the Men's Varsity heavy four walked away vic- torious in UMASS shirts. Although the University of Massachussetts crew is reported to be very competitive they could not equal an amazing effort put forth by the dynamic Union men. (11:.43.0), while Meg Parsons added a second in the 200 meter dash behind Thomas togo along . with her two record-setting performances. The men'strack team was not so successful in their meet, as they finished third out of the four teams that raced. WPI won the. men's meet with 106 points, followed by Norwich with 35,. Union with 33, and Southeastern Massachusetts with 31. Despite the disap- pointing losses, _ many of the Dutchmen had their best perfonnances of the year. Freshman Art Broga had both of Union's individual wins. Broga took the l()ng jump and the triple jwnp with leaps of 21 feet 3 inches and 42 feet 5 in- ches, .respectively. Will Allen ran a season's best 52.6 second 400 meter dash, then came back to run even faster in the 4 x 400 meter relay. Allen anchored the relay to victory in 3:31.5 by blazing a 51.5 second split. Bob Lindyberg added a 52 second split in the same relay, which went along with his fourth place in the 800 meter dash, where he ran 201.8, his best time of the season. Sophomore Jeff Simkins also ran a· strong leg ~n the relay, which completed a busy day for him. Simkins also took second place in the 400 hurdles, rwming a quick 57.7 seconds, and a third in the high jump, where he cleared 6 feet 2 inches. This weekend, the women's team will take their 6·1 record to the state meet in Rochester. With the· su.cc~s· of the team so far, Union can expect to score well both as individuals and as a . team. A spunky Women's light- weight crew, which is making a cbmeback after a string of injurinies and other difficulties, The awe inspiring Men's heavy novice four, coming into this race with an impressive winning record, finished second in a field of fou.r. Although Williams crossed tlie finish line before Union, the Uilion crew soundJy defeated two tJMASS boats. This successful group of men bClpes to present themselves With- this race behind them, the Union Crew anxiously awaits their biggest challenge. The crew will be ardently . practicing on Schenectady's own Mohawk river with dreams of conquering the Schuykyll of Phi!adelphia. Women's Track Team goes over their game plan.

- Concordiensis would like to welcome you to Union's campus. We hope you will take advanta~e of this opportunity to learn more about Unions academics, activities, and campus life in general. We encourage you to find the time to explore the Arts department, meet your son's and daughter's professors, and take in a rugby match, as-well as enjoy the elusive spring weather. This insert includes a schedule and is designed . to entice you into participating in the various activities. Enjoy your weekend! '·\* .. --. ~ -- ~ ·=:-~~-~;t',:·?T~-,,7;. ·~ ~ ;.~\'')'>1JY:<•\Pc'·\l:'''\\'·' •.. . · ...... -~'::·:~.- .. ~:· .. ·r~ ·-------~--~--~--------------------, 1 Subscribe to Concordiensis for the 1988-89 school 1 1 year. 1 I I I - I I Name: I 1 I I I I Address: I I I I I 1 You will receive 24 issues for $30. 1 1 Checks should be made payable to 1 1 ''Concordiensis'. I 1 Forms and payment can be placed in the I I Concordiensis mailbox, 3rd floor, College Center I I 'Ot sent to P.O. Box 2577, Union College, Schenectady, I I NY 12308 . I I ._ _________ . _____________ . ___ . __________ ....

Page 2 CONCORDJ;Ti:.NSIS PARENTS' WEEl(END, May 5, 1~88 ' 1P~Jm~1r~Q FRIDAY, MAY 6 5-7 p.m. College Center 7 j)lll SS016 7, 9, 11 p.m. Center 7-9 p.m. Old Chapel 8p.m. Nott Memorial 8p.m. Memorial Chapel lOp.m. Old Chapel REGISTRATION ... Pick up a schedule to find out The :Blatchford Oratorical Contest MOVIES, MOVIES, MOVJES- -The Film Committee College presents, the hilarious THREE MEN AND A BABY A love story of unforgivable desire_: ALL GOD'S CWLLUN GOT WINGS is presented by BIAS and Mountebanks. An evening of theatrical enterta.im:pent. (Reservations required 370-61'53, 1-5 on weekdays) _ A muflical comedy depicting the adventures of Charlemagne's son: PIPPIN (Reservations required call370-6153 1-5 on weekdays $5 .00) ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TURNER- Head of-Central Inteliigenc~ .Agency ..... presented by the· Speakers' Forum (tickets are available at the College Center Box Office) An evening at THE APOLLO THEATER brought to you by BUS . SATURDAY, .MAY 7 9 a.m.-1 p.m. Cqllege Center REGtSTRATION - sign in, pick up ;;t schedule to· find out what is going on, and enjoy the refreshments · 9 .a~m.--:Noon . . Future college students ... Admissions interviews for sons and ne·cker::Hau< · · :-. · :. > datightets·ofUnion parents (for appointments call370-6112} ;:·· :·-~,_,_.· .. ~~--4:'7 .... t:·~~~~·l .. ','' ·: · ....... ~. ~ .. ! .•. ·•• ~.-.·.,,- ~ ..... ,_.~ •. · . . • 9:15 .. 10:45 a.m. Parents Committee meeting Milano Lounge 9:30-11 a.m. College Center 4th floor 9:30-11 a.m. 10 a.m.-Noon Schaffer Library 10 a.m.-5 p.m Arts Building 11 a.m. Memorial Chapel 11:30 a.m.-1:30 p.m. Library Plaza Noon Library Plaza Afternoon Library Field 12:30 p.m.-1 :30 p.m. Old Chapel 1-2 p.m. Library Plaza 1-2:30 p.m. Dance Studio 1-3 p.m. Wells House 1:30-2:30 p.m. College Center Room 303 Open House - Student Activities Office and College Center ~re . . . The Academic Departments ·welcome you to visit during the open house hours Schaffer Library will have an open house with the special Library collection on display The Arts Department presents Works by Students and Alumni PRIZE DAY CEREMONY - Awards will be presented to students for outstanding achievements in academics, athletics,- and service to the College PICNlC benefitting the Union Day Care Center Hear the DUTCH PIPERS and GARNET MINSTRELLES sing the Alma Mater and their own renditions of popu1ar songs. Athletic Events: Men's and Women's RUGBY Upperclassmen and their parents can take advantage of Career Development Center Op~n House . ) . \EN GARDE\ for a fencing dempnstration. GOSPEL ENSEMBLE PERFORMANCE The Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies Open House CONCORDIENSIS - Editorial Board and Staff are invited to bring their parents up to the offices for refreshments •

. l CONCOllDlENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND, MtlJ 5, 1988 JP~~IDJ1r~ Q Saturday, cont'd. WRUC Ice Cream Social 1 :30'\3:00 p.m. Chester Arthur Statue 2p.m. Humanities Bldg. 2p~m. \Vest Beach 2p.m. Sci. & Eng. Bldg. 2-3 p.m. Soc. Sciences 2:30-3:30 p.m. S.S./Hurn. 3:30-4:30 p.m. S.S./Hum. 4:30..,.5:30 p.m. Library Plaza 5p.m. Arts Bldg . Students who attended the Kansai-Gaidai University in Osaka, Japan will present \THE JAPAN EXPERIEN:CE\ with sushi and all. .. Kara-te Demonstration Does a sto:n.eboat float? Attend the: Stoneboat Presentation Political Scien~e seniors will be pre~enting their theses. Weelcend Seminars I -Star Wars: A Panel Discussion -The Tragedy of the Commons Weekend-Seminars II -Arrow's Impossibility Theorem -Why Women's Studies? -Fractals: A New Geometry -Seeing is Deceiving PRESIDENT'S RECEPTION for parents. students, faculty, and staff. (If rain. Achilles Rink) Unio:a College DANCE CLUB 5:30p.m. Dutchmen's Night Dinner - $11.50 '{Reservations required) College Center Atrium 370-6379 7-9 p.m., Old Chapel 7, 9, 11 p.m. College Center Auditorium 8p.m. Menlorial Chapel ·. J:,..love sto.ry .q( \}nfqrgivaple. :d~~\~~.=- ALL GOD'S .. g;tp~\9N:: GOT WINGS IS presented by BIAS and Mountebanks. An even_ing- of theatrical entertainment. .(Reservations required 370-6153, l-5 on ·weekdays) Film Committee presents 'THREE MEN AND A BABY'' Union College CHOIR and ORCHESTRA Performance 8 p.m.~midnight DINNER DANCE ($11.50 reservations required, ca1l College Center Atrium 370-6379, 1-5 weekdays) 9:30p.m. Nott Memorial A musical comedy depjcting the adventures of Charlemagne's son: PIPPIN (Reservations required call 370-6153. l-5 . weekdays $5.00) 10 p.m.-midnight C_ome to the CABARET ... student talent performance Old Chapel SUNDAY, MAY 8 Old Chapel 10-Noon and Noon-2 p.m. College Center __ 10-5 p.m. Arts Building 10:30-Noon Lower Hale House 11:00 a.m. Memorial Chapel Noon-1:00 p.m. 1'4emorial Chapel Noon Boat House \ . 10 a.m. Ecumenical Worship Service MOTHER'S DAY BRUNCH, treat Mom to a special brunch (reselVations required call370-6379., $6.25) GALLERY SHOWING: The Arts Department presents: works of art 1 >y students and alumni. Uni()n Athletes Reception Union College CONCERT BAND performance Union College JAZZ ENSEMBLE Performance CREW reception Page 3

co co 0, \\\-~ .,.) ~I ~- Q :2: ij;J i:( ~- ~ ~ . ~ ~ ~ c:=: ~ t'.l ..... Vll <: ~ ..... ~ ~ c c...> ~ <:::> l.> ~ ~ ~ ~ a.. ••u I Monday, J~ne 6- 2:00-4:00 p.m. ARS 018- The Dance Experience- V. A. Orlock- ARTS- 215 CLS 023, ~.History of Rome: The Empire -.J. Marincola ~ HUMN 019 CSC 010- Computers And Computing- G. Marten- NWSE 014 ECO 012- 03 Introduction To Economics d J. Kenney- SSCI 103 ECO 141 -Monetary Economics- E. D. Phaup- SSCI 104 ECO 148.., Seminar In Econometrics- S. Schmidt- SSCI -105 EGL 020- Major English Authors II - H: Freund- HUMN 115 1 EGL 022- 01 Major American Authors- B. Wineapple- HUNiN 114 EGL 045- Philosophical Fiction- W. Hathaway- HU.MN' 117 ESC 015- Numerical Methods and Fortran- L. Almstead- NWSE 016 GEO 032- Petroiogy- K. Hollochcr'- BUTR 201 HEB 011 - Basic Hebrew II - D. Grossberg - ffiJMN 110 HEB 012 - Intermediate Hebrew- D. Grossberg - HUMN 110 HST 086- Science Policy & Modem State- M. Walker- SSCI 213 LLR 156-01 Bio~Eco Aspects of Health Tech- T. Styles/J. Lambrinos- BAIL 205 MTII 135 -Number Theory - K. Zimmerman - BAIL 106 PHL 065 - Philosophy Of Mind - C. Gould - HUMN 112 PSC 020 ~Social Dahl Analysi~ \T. Ht\lbrook- SSCI 112 PSY 030- Personality- G. Atlas - PYCH- 113 , PSY 031 - Abnormal Psychology - D. Spring - PYCH 102 SOC 062 - Social Data Analysis - T. Holbrook - SSCI I 12 SOC 153 -Sociology Of The Handicapped- T. Weiner- SSCI 110 Monday. June 6 - 6:30~8:30 p.m. . CSC 034- Cobol & Information Processing- sl Chadwick· NWSE 012 Tuesday. June 7 - 9:00- t 1 :00 a.m. ANT 010- Intro to Cultural Anthropology- S. Gmclch- PYCH 102 BIO 011 -Topics in Contemporary Biology Sec. 1-M. Schadler- BAIL205 · Sec. 2- K. Williams- BAIL 108 , BIO 154 ~Chordate Embryology - B. Boyer- NWSE 116 CER 150- Hydrology- P. Snow - BUTR 106 CHM 040- Quantitative Ch~mistry - T. Werner- BUIR 104 CHM 134- Organic Chemistry III- L. McGahey- NWSE 016 CSC 037 ~Structured Programming- D. Hannay- NWS£ 014 ECO 012 - 01 Introduction To Economics dE. Motahar- SSCT 103 ECO 031- Microeconomic Analysis- L. McCarthy- SSCI 012 ECO 033 - Public Pol & American Industry - D. Klein - SSCI 112 EER 154- VLSI Systcfi Design~ E. Hassib- BAIL 203 EGL 019- Major English Authors I- W. Hathaway- HUMN 019 EGL 071 - Irish Renaissance Literature - A. Frazier - HUMN 117 ESC 010 - 03 Mechanics I - R. Eisenstadt- NWSE 222 FRN 133- Mastering Written French- L. Day- HUMN 116 GEO 010- Physical Geology- R. Ryberg- BUTR 204 GER 012 -Intermediate German- D. Lund- HUMN 014 GRK 012- Greek Reading· G. Mclt.wr- HUML'\! 213 HST 010- Hist & Soc: Trad Civilization- E. Hansen /R. Wells- SSCI 016 HST 014 - Hist Of U.S. Since Civi.l War- M. Jonas - SSCI 104 HST 030- American Econ D~vclopmcnt- J. Finkelstein- HUMN 114 LAT 012- Latin Reading- C. Sorum- SSCI 105 MER 040 - 02 Engineering Dcsit:,'11 l - M. Rivera - NWSE 210 MTH 018- Intro to Logic and S~t Theory- W. Fairchild- BAIL 102 MTH 040 - Applied Linear Algebra - D. Tatcvossian - BAIL 207 MTH 124- Geometry- M. Frame- BAIL 106 MTH 185- Math Modds In Life Sciences- T. Bick- BAIL 104 PHL 038 - Eastern Philosophy - L. Patrik - HUMN 115 PHY 011 - 02 Introduction to Physics I- K. Patton-Hall- STZH 106 PHY 013 - 02 Introduction to Physics II- F. Titus- NWSE 012 PHY 014-01 Elements Of Modem Physics- S. Malcki- BAIL 201 PHY 054- Statistical Thermodynamics- G. Reich- NWSE 303 PSC 012- 01 Contemporary Intrntnl Politics- W. D. Clinton- SSCI 014 SPN 012- Intermcdi~te Spanish- P. Moyano- HU:MN 112 SPN 140- Cervantes: Don Quijotc- C. Qualtcrc- HUMN 110 PSY 010 -. 01 A First Course in Psychology - D. Morier- PYCH 113 Tuesday, June 7 - 2:0Q-._1:00 J!.m. - ARS 041 -Introduction to Music, Part II- H.A. Wilson- ARTS 215 BIO 023- Cell Biology- F. Lamben- BUTR 204 BIO 134- Population Biology- J. Boyer- BAIL 106 BIO 157- Plant Systematics- M. Frohlich- SSCI 110 fl ~ ' ( .ct\ l'i\ H~ ! < ...• \·~ ~ ; :; . -~ ~.;. ··:' .. . ' .. f 1t .• ~ \ •' 1V.k MTH 021 -Math Methods For Soc Sci II - W. Zwicker- BAIL 106 MTH 101 - Advanced Calculus For Engrs - L. Tatevossian - BAIL 104 PHY 011 - 01 Introduction to Physics I -D. Johnson - STZH·I06 PHY 013 - 01 Introduction .to Physics II - J. Newman - NWSE 012 PSC 010- Introduction To Politics- J. Garber- SSCI 103 PSY}J20- Statistical Methods In Psychol-L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 SPN 011 -Basic Spanish II - R. Vinick - HUMN 115 SPN 134- 02 Mastering Spoken Spanish.;. C. Qualtere- HUMN 116- Wednesday. June 8- 11:15-1:15 p.m. ACC 010- Financial Accounting I-N. Garrod- BAIL 207 ARS 087 - Music Of India - T. W. Ross - ARTS 313 CER 020 - LAnd Measurements: Thoery & Appl -C. Male - BurR 106 CER 132 -Reinforced Concrete Design - M. Mafi - BUTR 104 ECO 042 - 02 Macroeconmic Theory & Policy - T. McCarthy - SSCI 012 ECO 052 - Women In The Economy - L. Cavalluzzo - SSCI 104 EGL 022- 02 Major American Authors !. F. Gado- HUMN 112 ESC 010 \ 02 Mechanics I • Y. K. Lee • BUTR 300 FRN 140- French Special Topics- W. Thomas- HUMN 114 GMI 250 - Organizational Theory - M. Strosberg- BAIL 201 HST 031 - Economic Hst Of Modem Society - J. Finkelstein - SSCI 103 HST 036- History of Europe II- M. Walker- HUMN 110 HST 111 -Women And America- F. Dudden- SSCI 112 MTH 050- Intra To Applied Mathematics- S. Niefield- BAIL 106 PHL 068 -Philosophy And Tragedy - C. Gould- HUMN 117 PSY 010- 04 A First Course in Psychology\' G. Atlas- PYCH 113 Wednesday. June 8.,. 2:00-4:00 p.m. ANT 013- Medical Anthropology- C. Olsen- SSCI 112 ECO 020- Intro To Statistical Analysis- L. Cavalluzzo- SSCI 104 EER 036 - System Theory ll Sec. 1 - V. Fatic - BUTR 204 Sec. 2- V. Fatic- BUTR 204 ESC 013 - High Level Lang Programming - L. Almstead- BAIL 207 PHL 060 - Issues In Feminism - L. Patrik- HUMN 115 PSY 034-01 Psychology Of Language- T. D'Andr~- PYCH :213 SOC 137 - Sociology Of Develop ~onntries .,. M. Huggins .. SSCI llO Thursday, June 9 - 9:00 - 11 :00 a.m. CSC 011 - Programming For Soc. Sciences Sec. 1 - J. Casteleberry - BAIL 207 Sec. 2 - J. Casteleberry - BAll. 207 ESC 032 - Electrical Circuit & Devices II Sec. 1 - J. Gajjar - BUTR 204 Sec. 2-1. Gajjar- BUTR 204 ESC 042- Signals & Stystems Sec. 1 - Goodheart - BAIL 201 Sec. 2- J. Mallick- BAIL 201 ITL 133 -Mastering Written Italian- M. Keyes - HUMN 110 MfH Oi 4 - Calculus III Sec. 1 - W. Stone - BAIL 203 Sec. 2 - W. Stone- BAIL 203 Sec. 3 - M. Frame - BAIL 108 Thursday. June 9 - 2:00-4:00 p.m. CHM 150- Physical Chemistry I- J. Anderson- NWSE 016 GER 131- Goethe's Faust- A. Warde- Hillv1N 110 MTH 030- Ordin Differential Equations Sec. 1 - E .. Gillette - BAIL 108 Sec. 2- J. Coffey- BAIL 102 Sec. 3 - A. Prindle- BAIL 104 Sec. 4 - J. Muckenfuss - BAIL 106 The following courses have a common exam with the evening division. Monday, June 6 - 4:30-6:30 p.m. CSC 077 - Dalli Structures • N. Mazur- BAIL 201 Tuesday. June 7 - 4:30-6:30 p.m. CSC 144 - Functional Prograq1ming - A. McLoughlin - BAIL 207

U') a,) \:liJ e:s Q., ~ ~ ·~· s ~· ~ ~. ~ at k ~ ~. =>.:: \\=C Q.,. ti':l .... . ~ ~ ~ \.,)· ;(: c C,j .. \ 1 f t,; Final Examination Schedule Spring 1988 IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular \day 11 undergraduates courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 and 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the ~xam time for those courses. Students who have three (3) examinations in one day should speak with Dean Daniels, Room S-100, Science and Engineering Building before June 1, 1988. It should be noted, however, that students regulary expected to take two exams in a single day. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Adey in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 27, 1988. I Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ,, ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR- Butterfield Hall HUMN- Humanities Building NWSE - North Wing, Sci.;Eng. Ctr. PYCH - Psychology Laboratory Monday. June 6 ~ 8:30-10:30 a.m. ANT 034- Race & Ethnic Relations- S. Gmclch- SSCI 104 ARS 130 - Contemporary Art - D. Robbins - ARTS 215 CER 142- Soil Mechanics- G. Gifford- BUTR 300 CER 153- Environmental Engineering II- P. Snow- BUTR 104 CHN 010 .~ Basic Chinese I ~ Zhong Du Zhu • HUMN 116 EGL 021 -Major English Authors III- A. Frazier- HUMN 114 EGL 077 .- Contemporary American Novel - W. Hathaway - HUMN 117 ESC 026- Thermodynamics- W. Aubrey~ NWSE 222 GRK 138- Greek Lyric And Elegiac Poetry- G .. Meltzer- HUMN 213 ITL 010 ~ 01 Basic Italian I- M. Keves- HUMN 110 JPN 010-01 Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa~ HUMN 112 MTH 134- Differential Equations- J. Coffey- BAIL 104 PHL 012- Philosophical Problems- S. Kaminsky- HUMN 115 PHL 183 - Seminar: Systematic Philosophy - R. Taylor- sscr-110 PHY 140- Quantum Mechanics- R .. Magahiz .~ NWSE 303 , PSC 050 - Theories of Internatl Relatns - W. D. Clinton - SSCI 112 PSC 063 - Pol Parties & Interest Groups - C. Tidniarch - ,SSCI 103 PSY 010 - 03 A First Course in Psychology - B. Moore ~ PYCH 102 PSY 033 - Psych of Memory and Thinking - D. Moricr - PYCH 113 Monday.June6- l1:15-1:15p.m. • . . . - - . . . . \ CHM·OlO- Fundamental Chemistry I Sec. 1 - R. Schaefer - B UTR 204 Sec. 2 - C. Weick - BUTR 204 CHM 012 - FuHdamental Chemistry II Sec. 1 - D. Hayes - BAIL 207 Sec. 2- J. Anderson -.BAIL 207 ITL 010- OZ Basic Italian i- M. Keyes- HUMN 110 MTH 180 - Foundations Of Mathematics - J. Hefferon - BAIL 105 PSY Q42- Psychol Asscssmcntr &. Testing- K. DeBono- PYCH 204 Monday, J~ne 6 - 2:00-4:00 p.m. ARS 018- The Dance Experience- V. A. Orlock- ARTS- 215 CLS 023 ~History of Rome: The Empire -.J. Marincola ~ HUMN 019 CSC 010 -·Computers And Computing- G. Marten- NWSE 014 ECO 012-03 Introduction To Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 103 ECO 141 -Monetary Economics- E. D. Phaup- SSCI 104 ECO 148 ... Seminar In Econometrics- S. Schmidt- SSCI -105 SSCI - Social Science Bldg. STZH- Steinmetz Hall l; ~ \ ', CLS 043- Classic:ll Mythology- C. Soruni ~ HUMN 019 . ' ECO 012-02 Introduction to Economics- D. Klein- SSCI 010 ECO 029 - Modeling & Sim Of Econ Policy - H. Fried - SSCI 112 EER 152 - Microprocessors - C. Traver - BAIL 203 EGL 051- Chaucer- A. Scott- HU.MN 114 ELL 012- 01 Homes, Bldgs, & Egr Principles- H. G. Harlow- BUTR 300 ESC 033 - Fluid Systems Analysis - J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 FRN 012 -Intermediate French - S. Hash- HUMN 110 FRN 139 - Survey Of French Literature II - C. Laparra- HUMN 112 HST 047 - England To 1688 - S. Sargent- SSCI 103 HST 058 - The Holocaust- S. Berk- SSCI 016 LLR 051- Nuclear Weapons & Arms Control- W. Martin- BAll.. 207. 1v.1ER 122 -Robotics & Auto. Prod Sys & CAM - R. Guntur- NWSE 210 MTH 119 -Topics In Discrete Mathematics- W. Zwicker- BAIL 108 PHL 021- Symbolic Logic- J. Ludwig- HUMN 117 PHY 013-03 Introduction to Physics II- J. Anderson- NWSE 012 PHY 014 - 02 Elements Of Modern Physics - S. Maleki - BAIL 201 PHY 044- Introduction To Astronomy- L. Baksay- S1ZH 106 PHY 127- Solid State Physics .. D. Peak- NWSE 303 PSC 011 - Conten;tporary American Politics - J. Garber .. SSCI 014 PSC 058 - International Law - J~ Board - SSCI 104 . . . PSY 010-02 A First Course in Psychology- H. Foley- PYCH 102 PSY 024 - Social Psychology - .K. Debono - PYCH 113 PSY 037 -Psychology through Literature - B. Moore - PYCH 204 PSY 038- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 RUS 012- Intermediate Russian I-N. Jemakoff ~ truMN 116 SOC 024- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 113 ·Wednesday, June 8- 8:30- 10:30 a.m. . . . BIO 018 - Introduction to Biology ll- G. Butterstein/M. Frohlich- BUTR 204 BIO 024 - Genetics And Evolution - J. Boyer- BAIL 207 BIO 130 -Comparative Animal Physiology- F. Lambert- BAIL 201 CHM 016- inorganic Chemistry I- C. Scaife- NWSE 01:6 ECO 036 -Financial Markets- B. Lewis- SSCI 112 ECO 042-01 Macroeconomic Theoty & Policy- E. Motahar- $SCI 014 EGL 078 - Engl Lang Struct: Linguistics -A. Nelson - HUMN 114 ESC 010 - Mechanics I- P. Weiss - BUTR 300 ESC 020 - Mechanics II - D. Bunk - NWSE 222 FRN 011 - Basic French ll - L. Day - HUMN 110 FRN 134 - Mastering Spoken French - C. Laparra - HUMN 014 GER 011- Basic German II- A. Warde- HUMN 112 HST 045- The Second World War Era- E. Hansen- SSCI 104 HST 055 - The Soviet Period- S. Berk - SSCI 016 . LLR 015 -Decision Making & Cont Values- H. Fried- SSCI 110 MER 040 - 01 Engineering Design I- M. Rivera- NWSE 210 M'TR 012- Calculus II- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 102 MTH 021 -Math Methods For Soc Sci II - W. Zwicker- BAll.. 106 MTH 101 - Advanced Calculus For Engrs - L. Tatevossian - BAIL 104 PHY 011 - 01 Introduction to Physics I - D. Johnson - STZH I 06 PHY 013 - 01 Introduction .to Physics II - J. Newm·an - NWSE 012 PSC 010- Introductio.n To Politics- J. Garber- SSCI 103 PS¥ 1 020- Statistical Methods In Psychol- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213 •

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND, May 5, 1988 Saxton. Porter. and Speir Scholarships to Albany_ Law School Students who are definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for Saxton,· Porter and Speir Scholarships. Forms are availabl-e in the Political Science Department Office. Deadline for submission is July 1. Application deadli:ne date for all Winter 1989 terms ·abroad (Greece-., M~xico and lsrae:l) is Moy .9, 1988. If you hove questions about the prerequisites for these terms, please-cqll x6002. MALE CAMP COUNSELORS WANTED. ''Dad was right. You get Wliat R.I. Co-Ed ·Overnight Camp For More Information CALL ANDREA X4209 Thinking of a Nissan or Volvo? See Eric Weiner Union Class of '87 Nemith Motor Corp. Route 9, Latham 785-8531 DAMBROSE CLEANERS 1517 Van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING H2-49}2 BH McClEllAN SmEET ScH(Jy, N.Y. 12XJS Friday, May 6, 1988 10:00 pm $2 admission you pay for.'~ I flvites you fo our . Non-Alcoholic Beverages Available PARENTS WELCOME More people choose AT & T over any other long . distance service. Because, · with AT&T, it costs less tha11 you think to get the service you expect, like clearer connections,. 24-hour AT&T operator assistance, instant credi~ on wrong numbers. And the assurance that we can put virtually every one of your calls through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network So when it'stime to make a choice, remember, it pays to choose Ai&T. If vou 'd like to kriow J more about our products or services, like the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. ATaT The right choice. 4th Annual 50¢' drafts $2 mixed drinks 1n Required for Alcohol Purchase • li .,.

~-- li CONCORDIENSlS PARENTS' WEE..KEND, May S, 1988 Page 7 ' ' RESTAURANTS and. ENTERTAINMENT THE BLACK a.nd LATIN ALLIANCE OF STUDENTS Present· \AN EVEt\UNG AT THE, APOL.LO TH·EATER'·' ... .., . . . FRI·DAY, M-AY 9, 1988 OLD CHAPEL · 10:00 P.M. _ ' Celebra~~· & Mother•$ D~y by taking Mom & your family to see: TliE F JRST 40 YEARS *A MVSICAL SPECTACLE FROM - ISRAEL* S~nday~ May8, 1988 3:00p.m. Procto:r~s Theater 432 State Street Tickets: · General$-? t******************* CONES ~ UJJ!M~@OO ©@f!.IL~®~ ~lP~a\~~~® !?®!ru~~ ~ FOR ALL ~ _ PRESENTS . * ~~ : ADMIRAL STANSFIELD TU\lNER l · MOTIIEft DA1' ...,_ _ ~ . May Sth:t1968 \\ FORMER: HEAD OF THE CENTRAL ~ · iC INTELLIGENCE · AOENCY, * t~%!~~x:oo£of -it COMMANDER IN ClllEFOF THE 1 * lYoor.-~Cs! • NATO SOUTHERN FLANK, * 2PhotooC ~.. PRESIDENT OFTHENAVALWAR ....__ You-r¥J.dC.~) -.,.... ...;,. - ...... 3 blf'·th ..), COLL·E. G. n c .. OMMANDER. OF_ . A ......_ certlfic~ r C. ARRIE .. -.R. TASK GROUP, RHODES ~. &.,Grey~~~--- \' sc ,..... .5 ful.bly • HOLAR ......__ . t.x.pectant ~ Mother, ... . FRIDAY, MAY 6 * Get two! • :MEMORIAL CHAPEL * S:~!.m4 .},- -'- Clllaaal 0.0. • 4M-11ml • \' 8 P.M. ..... l:s3tiM·~ ...,. ~~ma.·~'nm ........ ~ TICKETS AT CARNEGIE BOX OFFICE ·* .a . , 4 . 3il'bll&SL·~ ******************** :~ORWt!Dm&·~l Looking for a tasty, home cooked, Sabbath meal? Comejoin us at The Kosher Kitchen (West CQllege) Friday Evening Services at 5:30p.m. Dinner at 6:00p.m. J.S.U. rnembers Just $5.00 Non-members $6.00 Parents are welcome! -- · Castello's Restau·rant Eat in or take out 1 Oo/o discount with Union College I.D .. TI-:!E.BEST lN ITALIAN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Calzones, Pasta, Veal Souvlaki, Gyros, Wine and Beer Veal Parmesan with spaghetti and salad $8.50 Boked lasagna with cheese and salad $4.95 Castello's Pizza & Restaurant 1487 State St., Schenectady ·will Deliver 37 4-0581 Luigi's Restaurant 1125 Barrett St~ Schenectady, NY Phone # 518-382-5429 -' . ,-._, • ·,: ~ :-\ ·.) • ~ -~ ~:.~ ~ . > j'> • - I ~ ' ~ • :f!l .. Banquet Room Open Lunch 12-3:00 Dinner Mon., Wed., & Thurs. 4-9 Closed Tuesdays (Banquet ·Room up to 50) / ATTENTION STUPENTS: Thank you for your overwhelming response to the PARENT'S WEEKEND BRUNCH! The brunch in upperclassmen's dining hall has sold out. Dutch Hollow Restaurant will be open, for cash sales and ... West College welcomes all Parents to Mother's Day Brunch on Sunday, May 8th. No reservatio-ns needed. Continental will be from 10.:00-10:30 ; . and the fantastic WestBru.nch will be'served from 10:30;..1:00. Below is a convenient schedule for the rest of the term. Sat. May 7 Sunday May 8 May 14&15 May 20 May 21~22 May 28th May 29tb June 4&5 West College closed UCDH will serve both brunch and dinner · Both West College & UCDH will serve Brunch & Dinner UCDH will serve both lunch & Dinner. West College is Closed. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. All Units Closed for Dinner UCD H open for brunch & .dinner. West College is Closed Camp Union.All Units Closed Both West College & UCDH Open for Brunch & Dinner Bot~ West College & UCDH will he open for Brunch & Dinner ....

Page 8 THE BOOK STORE PARENT'S WEEKEND. HOURS FRIDAY: 8:45-4:30 OFF SATURDAY 10:00-4:00 370-6188 SELECTION INCLUDING-: I • SWEAT SHIRTS SWEAT PANTS • T-SHIRT·s PARENTS: COME SEE OUR SELECTION OF ART CARVED COLLEGE RINGS FOR YOUR GRADUATING STUDENT. SEE THESE ALREADY DISCOUNTED ITEMS lN THE COMPUTER SUPPLY DEPARTMENT SON-v; soNY $19 . 95 #1 ln. . • 3·1/2\ Format Box of 10 Reg. $22.95 DS DD 3 1/2\ Office Automati Even when economy is a priority, you don't have to compromise on .features. Not when you choose a KX-P1080i dot matrix printer from Panasonic. You get what you nee.d most in a printer- speed, versa- tility, dependabiHt y. All in a compact printer priced to fit your budget. Come see the KX-P1080i- it's your ideal printer. • 120 cps in draft mode • Near letter quality printing • Operator accessible print mode switch • Dot addressable graphics • 2-year limited warranty $215.00 MFG. SUGG. RETAIL $299.00 . \.

' -:- :· >~-~, ' ~ ~ ).~· ., ' CXVII, No-. 24 ~' til m fii· 0 ~. !2 .... )« \\:,~ ~\'--~' ~ 0.... ~hrjs Pike a.nd ~ictor Peter 'Costa debate on WRlJC last Thursday nt~ht re9ardm_9 ISsues faced by a forum president. York May 12, 1988 .Open Forum Discussion 'Hits Topic o·f Future Use of the Nott By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief Former DCI Turner Analyzes New U.S. Position in Wo:rld Affairs By CARLR. FRIEDRICH, JR. between the United States and the Soviet Union. Turner felt Friday, :May 6, Admiral that the relationship between Stansfield Turner spoke before the two countries has changed an estimated six hundred \because Marxism bas failed in people in the Memorial Chapel.· the Soviet Union.'' The failure, The speech was entitled \The Tumer affirmed, was based on Cbanging Role of the United their failing economy, masked States in the World Com- behind the myth of \the new Restore the Nott student munity.\ openness.\ For that reason, our advocate Keith Bemis The former director of the relationship with the other reiterated the necessity of the Central Intelligence Agency superpower has started to and Administration to take action began his lecture by discussing will eventually become a non- em restoring the Nott Memorial how the United States has been factor. ''Perestroika will <luring this past Tuesday's Open eventually hurt them Forum. ('Russia) ... eventually they will Peter Costa Electe·d President of Student Forum . The Forwn, sponsored by the The United States should becomeasecondratepower.\ Restore the Nott Student hold on tightly to its Due to the Soviet Union's Initiative, ended a week long · philosophy and ideology, faltering position, the Ad- Waible Win.s Contr{)versial Sopnomore Repres--e.ntative Position program that the group had and work together with miral's second idea was that we been sponsoring in honor of the all nations towards a should progress with <!aution in building's recognition as a better world. our dealings with the Soviets, 'JUmor class, .wllile David National Historical Landmark by taking \quiet\ advantage of By STEPHANIEJARYNA Adinolfi was eJected Vice (May 6, 1972). The week kicked their openness while at the Peter Costa was voted in as President and LeeJa Mulukulta .off with a press conference regarded as the center of same time remembering that Student Forum president in the was elected Sec:retary/Trea- .commenting on the action that · soCiety since World War Two, one \should not push another elections_ whicH took place last surer. tthke AdmiTh'nistratiton ha.s already · and that our position there has superpower, especially a Friday. The most comg>etitive elec.,. a en. . e even· received local somewhat faded in the decades desperate ane,\ The Admiral Approximately 25% of the· tion took place f()l\' the positions media coverage. since. Turner based his also mentioned that we should Undergl\aduat.e- Students.-. .cast .. et s.QPllorm>re .J:Iep.r£.sen:Wtive. The other two events that the hypothesis on five develop- pay more attention to the rising votes in the elections, 59% of the Approximately. · ·2s% · 0 { · the · • \\program ineluded were a slide rnents Jn which the IJnited p()wers of the world today as _ . votes cast were for Peter Costa, freshman class ca~t votes in the presentation for parents bn States has \lost'' its onae well. thus making him the official election. Dan Wajble captured ~Saturday and a lecture given by seemingly insurmountable Turner then commented on President of the Student the position of ?'resident win- Professor Carl George on \The location as leaders of the world. the Nuclear Arms race. Here Forum. ning a sweeping 76.9% of the Significance of the Nott.\ The first issue the Admiral again the Admiral felt that to a Evan Grace captured 50.9% votes cast wllile Roger Weber See RESTORE, p. 4 dealt with was the relationship See TURNER, p. 4 of the votes to win the position won the ·positLon of Vice __ ....._ ______________________ .:_ ______ _.:....:._ ____ _ of Vice Presidenfof Finance, President with ~7.3% of the Pro£e· s·· sors from .S·ev· eral .Dl·f+:. erent defeating Steven Savad. votes. Elgin Rfuodes, whose 1. ~ Running without contention, petition was ilivalidly John Meier and Kim Giglio won. challenged before. the election, p· 1. eld.s Hold Lecture on star wa· rs the positions of Vice President won the i)osition of for Academic Affairs and Vice Treasurer/Secretary winning President of Administration, 55.2% of the votes cast. respectively. \' Finally, there \Will be a run off R.J. Donohue . won the election on Friday to determine . position of President of the the positi~m of Jlmior Trustee. Senior Class while Rob Dan- The election will be between zinger won the poSition of Vice Keith Bemis and John Meyer. President. Both ran un- In last week's election John contested. The election board Meyer won 36.291> of the votes will be running another election while Keith Bemis won only in the Fall in hopes that an 24% of the votes cast. interested senior will fill the · The run off election will take third senior representativte place dirring the day on Friday, position on the Studen.t May 13 in the 'C()llege Center Forum. Richard Howard will Atrium. All tmdergraduate be the new President of th~ students are elig;ible to vote. ByDANIELJ. KENffiY News Editor It seemed like quite a treat for the visiting parents- a sit down chat with some Union professors to discuss Star Wars. \Star Wars- a Panel Discussion,'' was held on Sati1rday, May 7; with an ex- tremely large turnout of in- . terested parents and \dl\agged along\ students. Profesor David Clinton, of the Political Science Department, handled Minerva Lecturer Discusses the Function of H'igher Education .. By MIKESCHULITZ Last week's Ninerva lecture featured acclaLm.ed writer and speaker Amy Gutman. Amy · Gutman is a graduate of • Radcliffe College, received her Ph.D. from Harvard, and has ' been a professor at Princeton since 1976, She is an Andrew Mellon ProfessCJr in politics and has published rmrnerous works. Her lecture was entitled \UndemocratieEducation.\ The lecture addressed the controversy of the function of higher education. She con- . tr~ted the ES$entialist and pJili~li~t vieW()Ioints and offered a: :ccnnbined atternative for the appiirent=:: (iilemrna. The · essen(bili$t~ . view of higher educ.atiem is tqat of knowledge servmg to e11li.lln?e the search for truth and values. Liberal education is education that liberates the mind from the mundane. Creating a life un- diluted and undistracted. Pluralists stress the practical aspects of life. Higher education serves to teach the individual for his/her future. Its purpose is not so much to enhance as itis to prepare. She stressed the contrast by stating that essentialism teaches the greatest works of the greatest minds of history, while pluralism teaches the knowlege of the moc;t current and most applicable nature. Whi:le pluralism is a philosophy of the nour, ess~ntialism is one of ages. Essentialists fell that practicality can be taught outside the university and that See EDUCATION,. p. 4 the political ramifications. Chemistry Professor William Martin discussed technologies of Star Wars, and Richard Shanebrook, a Mechanical Engineering Professor, dealt with the role of Star Wars in strategic nuclear warfare. Professor Clinton discussed the domestic and international ramifications of SDI. He gave a brief history of the Star Wars program. Research had begun on such an idea prior to President Reagan's speech in 1983. (Later, Professors Martin and Shanebrook attributed the original idea to various scientists but predominately physicist Edward Teller). What the Reagan Administration has done is get the whole program together, call for increased research, and increase the funding. Clinton looked at several emerging sch<>ols of thought on the issue in domestic terms. There are, at present, two {()rms of SDI. One is the proposed defense shield which would completely protect the U.S. population from a nuclear attack. Nuclear weapons will be made impotent and obsolete because of the capacity to shoot down the missles before they can reach their target. Another version of Star Wars is the \limited version,\ which says that we cannot hope to have an impenetrable shield at all. We should focus on a limite-d shield that will protect our own missles, not the whole See SOl, p. 3 Photo of the Week: A freak acctdent tn1s past Parents· weeKena - lots oi sunshine to enjoy in Schenectady. IX LU ~ ~ ~ ~ 0 § c. ! .•' \; . I .. ' '\ I ,, .

·I Page 2. CONCORDIENSIS~ May 12, 1988 By ALEX GARDNER So now that ·it seems clear that Vi~e President George Bush will be the Republican nominee for President, and almost as clear that Governor Michael Dukakis will be the Democratic nQminee, the in· siders new favorite trivial pursuit is about the delicate, uncertain balance that must be struck in picking the vice presidential candidates. A Busll,..Dukakis race this fall frankly has both liberals and conservatives yawning. A poor voter turnout in November may :be in the cards. Much will depend on the vice presidential choices. Too often the business . of choosing a vice president has ._,.become a kamikaze political High C·ourt ~ Will Reconsider Major Civil Rights Case By BRAD MONDSCHEIN On April 25 the Supreme Court V<lttid to reconsider a case involving the rights of minorities. A past Civil War statute, ·section 1981 '()f title 42 of · the United States Code, was ruled in 1976 by the Court, in the case of Ronyon v. McCarry, to include the right of minorities to 0 mission. lnstead of bolstering the ticket.. the choices more often evolve into h~ge political liabilities, largely because they have been _chosen for the wrong reason. It •was notewot:thy that the Now the tali{ bas turned from Jackson to other so-called more experienced Washington insider types who give the .ticket some geographical and ideological balance. morning-after analysts of the New York result tiptoed ner- vously around the critical sue private institutions' if tb.ey, are not accepted on the basis of race .. The outcome at the time was a 7-2 decision. Since the case was decided, the Court has PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTION RESULTS The following new members from the Class of 1988 were elected to the Alpha of New York Chapter ofPhl Beta Kappa: Tamara Barsamian, Alok Bhatt, Margaret-Mary Boitano, Holly Brandt, Anne Carl, Patrick Cook, Christine Donnelly, Stephen Flitman, Jonathan Fox, Melissa Fredericks, Aandi Goldstein, Diane Hinzelrnan, Brian Hughes, KeHh Ireton, Amrita Krishnan, Marina Kurian, Evan Lewis, David Moss, Diana Praus, Christine Rua, louis Schick, Tina Sc;:iocchetti, Richard Siegel, Dorothy Taylor. From the Class of 1989: Andrew Livernois, Robin Miller, Richard Steele, Beni Wolf Those of the Class of 1988 who were elooted last year· as juniors are: Alberto laia; Allan Klapper, Kimberly Silvers, Stephen Szvdlik ·NEWS -ANAJ;,YSIS question: Will Dukakj,s, and the Democratic Party leaders, be able to keep Jackson off the ticket entirely. Their dilemma is obvious. Either risk ·reopening the New York w:ounds, imperiUng Jewish loyalty to the party, or risk alienating the Democrats• rnQst enthUsiastic group of sup~ porters. Now the talk has turned from Jackson to other so-called more experienced Washington insider types who give the ticket some geographical and ideological balance. The Michael DUkakis- Sam Nunn dream ticket, reflecting many Democrats' strong desire for a Southerner is a perfect example. Sounds like a great idea. Nwm is more than regional ticket balancer: he is presidential, bringing needed expertise in the ways of both Washington andthe world. Still, the idea is not seen by all as a good one. Such a .setup would Serve only to highlight the ldeological difi:erences between him and the \Northeast liberal'' Dukakis. Jesse Jackson and n1uch of changed its character. Thetwo dissenters of the decision, Chief Justice William Rhenquist and Justice Byron White, are .presently the head of the con- servative drive on the Court. The addition of the \Reagan\ justices, Antonin Scalia, Sandra Day O'Connor and Anthony Kennedy, have given the con- servative movement on the Court a majority. The pending case of Patterson v. McClean Credit Union has given the conservative side of the Court their first opportunity t<1 show their intentions. The ease was originally heard b~fore the Court on February 25. Mrs. Patterson was suing the credit union for on-the~job harrassment lUlder section 1981. The Court ruled that they could not reach a decision based on .the facts that were p~esented to ·Ga oUr a, 11•~<.\ 't'<A~ oRuG- •EAc•N~ fASc:\~T • , SUMe.S,a,L!..\\ \ .. . . '· .., - ' ., ~'I.fff- - :. the party'.s liberal Wing-may 'be more enthusiastic about regional candidates such as San Antonio Mayor HenrY Chisneros, former Arizona Governor Bruce ·Babbitt or even House Majority Lead~r Torn Foley of Washington. Others Mr. Bush, it is said, might ma:ke a dramatic gesture by choosing a wotnan, possibly Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the Supreme Court. frequently mentioned for the job areSenato..-s Bob Grltbam of Florida, Bill Bradley ·of New Jersey and Lloyd . Benstell of Texas and Dale Bumpers of Arkansas, and .John Glenn of Ohio. As for George Bush, he probably more tharJ Dukakis, has to do something to inject a note of excitement into his .presidential bid. Mr. Bush, it is said, might make a dramatic gesture by choosing a woman, possibly Justice.Sandra Day O'Connor of them. Instead, the Court would like to hear argwnents that are aimed at reversing the Runyon decision. The Court request is seen as a move to reverse the case which may lead to further reversals of other . cases in- volving minority rights. The Court request is seen as a move to reverse the case which may lead to further reversals of other cases involving minority rights. If the Court reverses. the Runyon decision, Affirmative Action may be affected. Affirmative Action came to life in the case of Bakke v. Regents of the State of California, in ... c· NoN, MOvE ,T) YoUR ~lEssltl 'WtTtl ' . ,.H• 'T.OuGHEsT (ourlTRY JN THfi . I ·R I) if vvo L. .. / the Supreme Court, or by choosing·. a candidate whose ethnic background could offset ·.his awn _WASP image, possibly Governor George Deuknlejian of California with its 47 elec- toral votes. · · The • real qu~stion is, w:bere does G~rge Bush lie oa the Ideological spectrum. If he is seen by the Republicans as a real 'Ronald conservative then he Should chom~e one of two moderate governors with a·. lot of electoral votes. James 'Thomson of lllinois (24) and Thomas Kean of New Jersey (16) have often been mentioned. The conservative shopping list includes Buffalo Congressman Jac~ Kemp, MrS• O'Connor or Bill Arifistrong from Colorado. If be can per- suade the right wing that he's one of them, which. seem& impossibl~, then he can get a moderate to balance things. The bottom line is that the Vice President must he qualified to he President but must overshadow the top of the ticket. Gimmicks often turn into fiascos. J·ust ask Walter Monda! e. which the Court ruled that' quotas must be used where long term discrimination has been in effect. The possible reversal would take away the rights of minoritieS to sue private in- stitutions and private com- panies for not adhering to the Affirmative Action Program. Reagan has opposed af- firmative action. Professor of Political Science, Judy Garber, feels that Reagan ''did not have particular cases in mlnd when appointing the justices,\ but looks for people who share the same ideals as he does regar- ding \freedom of social and econon1ic relationships.\ The decision to hear _ arguments involving the reversal of the Runyon case could foreshadow the Court'S effort to reverse the most important civil rights cases ·Of the 1960's. STOP BY THE SDT BOOTH ... t\T THE COLLEGE CENTER TO PUT YOUR FAVORITE PROFESSOR IN JAIL ' ..., Thursday, May 12th On Friday Th.e 13th, The JAIL will be located in library plaza. Come and see your professors an·d SDT sisters locked ·up .. AH Money~Goes Jo? .. Jhe Nati.c),nal Prevention Of:dhild Abuse . -· c A1 tc a a VI () d tl tl v s e a v p ( i: \ 'i t ~ I

I ~ ) :• CONCORDIENSIS, May 12, 1988 Page 3 S.clen.ce .Professors • : • ~· . ~\\. ·..,;o; ,.... . Object to the:,:Strategic C.I.A. Critic Stoc.kwell to Address U .S.-Third World Concerns Def·en·se lniti·ative Sp.ecitics Say Star Wars Won't Work proxhnately 16 miautes to hit a target. - ICBM's can be made to burn faster .. A 60 second \boost phase :is possible Where the warheads can be deployed. - \DecQys\ can be employed. SDI .proponents claim to be able to use infrared devices to detect which are· missles and which are decoys thr~mgh the heat. Martin says the detectors won't ' be able to tell any difference in warmth. - These laser Satellites could shoot down one or two missles at a time. Ifthe :Russians were to attack, they'duse thousands. By R. Reed Whidden News Editor \The Secret Wars-of the CIA\ will be revealed to ;this college community by John Stockwell, a 13•year veteran of the Central Intelligence Agency, on· May 17 at 8:00 p.m. in the conege Center Auditoriwn. · John Stockwell joined the CIA in 1964. He served as a case officer iii Vietnam, Chief of stat~on in Africa, and at the top- secret National Security Council. He Will be speaking from .experience as be was also commander of the .Angola Task Force and was Officer-in- Charge of Tay Nihn, Vietnam. 'Stockwell was, as well, the ,recipient of the· CIA's Medal of Merit. HaVing been the coordinator of the Angola secret action for the National Security Colincil, Stockwell parallels that ex- . perience with the CIA's in~ volver.nent in Central America. He ha,s also traveled numerous .John St()clcwell- CIA's most severe critic. · times to Nicaragua to research · poses; the 111tirnate threat to democracy, and is a major cause of the world's move · towal\d nuclear e:Jttinction,\ . accuf!les Stockwell. He also . states that, c•rcn• the good of the US and the World, the CIA should be di&mantled.\ stock- . well will address questions . regarding the United States · · military and financial in- .· volvement iJl ·El .Salvador, US · policy :in the Third World, and • , United States· support of military dictatorships from Asia to SDuth America. Stoekwell .resigned his CIA career in 1977 .extremely con- , cerned with the actions and the way in which the CIA operates. In Se11rch of J!:Demies by Stock- · . the situation and discover facts • about the CIA's \secret war.\ well ·i:s m1 in~epth analysis of the CIA's' covert actions in Angola wllich has not· set well with the age11cy. The CIA has The hiibest ranked CIA of- ficial to: openly criticize the agency, Stoekwell will lecture on the CIA and its involvement in global' teqsion. \The CIA · sued Stockwen and impoWlded the profitsfrom this best selling book. He 'has also appeared on ~0 Mlnute5; NBC Magazine and m several d0ocumentary fihns. C()ntinued from page 1 American populace.· According to Clinton, the two versions both • arrive at the same endpoint• avoiding nuclear war. The first version \makes deterrence obsolete.\ It goes beyond the deterrence concept by saying that we will prevent an attack in the first .place. The sec:ond version seeks to \enhance and strengthen deterrence. It will ensure there is no possibility of a first strike.\ The former · version ·has a much· greater · popular appeal, Professor Clinton says. It is· ''an inherently more appealing vision to say we'll get rid of weapons.\ The latter version, propounded most recently by Senator Nunn, is harder to- sell · to the public. \It's harder to make a good case to protect mjssles than people.\ The international ramifications focus on how SDI ·. · will .affect our alliance relationships. If we have the absolute, impenetrable shield, two_ things can happen: the • Western European Allies will .. feel mere threatened because the U;S. would get into a con- ventional war more easily. With the limited SDI concept, the - In order t-o power the satellites, a megaton nuclear reactor is placed insirle it. The nuclear bomb goes off, the explosion makes the satellite into a laser, but it ·Can_ only fire one time. It blows up the entire satellite. The satellite that has the mirror on it is . ap- proximatley thE size of a football .field. To fuel this, one might use hydrogen and fluorine. Scientists have estimated, according to Martin, that it would take ti,OOO years to Student Forum: Exa:mines Housing Policy, Denies Funding for SP AA The Soviets learned if you fight, fight to win- and also, the value of surprise. Allies would either be com- fortable or isolated. We might be more willing to come to their aid. But one objection is that in order to save money to build SDI, we must withdraw from Europe, and severely com- promise defense there. Professor Martin reviewed . the basic concept and then expressed the objections to the program. Star Wars is like a giant umbrella over the USSR, or a giant astrodome. It takes six minutes for suchan ICBM to break the atmosphere, and one miimte for the warheads to · ·appear. (Each ICBM can hold from 1-10 warheads). The Star· Wars idea is to shoot down the ICBM and eliminate 1 missle notlO. Professor Martin's objections toSDI: - It does not cover sub- marines. Sub missles never leave the atmosphere, can hug terrain and take only ap- bring up enough. fuel using our existing space sh.uttles. (Also, the satellite co11ld be taken down by .a \spa!!e mine\ and the mirror disabled by a thimble full of oil or a bucket of sand). - The idea of launching the satellites by submar:ine, \pop up weapons;'' takes too much time. They won't be ilfspace in time to shoo()t down the ICBM's. Professor Shanebrook discussed rnilitaTy strategy and outlined how Star Wars could start a nuclear war. Strategy is \how do you win?•• Military planners are paid te win, not lose. ShanebrO()k says the Soviet Union learned a lot from June 22, 1941, when Germany invaded Russia. The Soviets learned: if yo\1 _:fight, fight to win. And also, the value 'If surprise. The idea of \coun- terforce\ was developed· strike atforces in such a manner that the enemy cann<Jtretaliate. Sbanebrook says the Strategic J?efe~se Iniative is the missing lmk 1n a nuclear attack. Since neither power has it, neither power hal:! the capability for a first strike. In the first seconds ' of an attack, the first power See PROFESSOR, p. 4 ·. By STEPHANIE JARYNA The issue of campus housing, or lack thereof, was the most intensely discussecf issue at last week's Student Fortun meetfug. Jennifer Scully, Student Forum representative to the Social Alternatives Committee reported that special interest housing decisions have been made. According . to the decisions made by Residence , Life and based on recom~ mendations of the · S.A.c:, Bronner House has been awarded to the Cultural· Unity Group and Smith House will remain a co-op, available to students on a lottery point system. International House will be moving to the upper floor of Webster House. Severe discontent was voiced by Student Forum members concerning the fact that the decisions were made so late in 'Nrite For News CALL Beck x4416 Elise x4405 Dan x4484, CROSSTALK MAY 25- ''U.S.-SOVIET SUMMIT: WHAT SHOULD WE CONCEDE? WHAT SI-IOULD WE DEMAND?\ Atrium Of College Center ~ p.m. JUNE 7- \SENIOR CROSSTALK: HAVE YOU GOTrEN AN EDUCATION IN FOUR. YEARS AT UNION?'' A.trium of College Center 8 p.m. ALL MEMBJ¥RS OF THE COLEGE C·OMMUNITY ARE--- WELCOME· TO COME EXPRESS:·tBEIR· OPINIONS. the term, thus promoting a housing •pro blem for those who intended.to apply for housing in Bronner- H()IISe. It was an- nounceli that since special in- terest housing is in such high demand. at Union, the S.A.C. plans to propose a formal procedure for dealing with special interest housing deu1and. in 'Upcoming years. The li'i11ance Committee presented the club budget allocations for the upcoming year. Afte;r bdefdiscussion and clarifieation,, the allocations .. were pmssed by the Forum. Also under the topic of Finance, the Forum funded $2350 for Earth Day and $120(l to the I.F.C. in ()fder to obtain the O.P. Ta:ylor band to play during Greek Week:. Both events will be open to the entire campus. The Finance Committee denied :fooding for the Student Politic~l Activist and Awareness Society on the groWtds that the society has too many J)Olitic:al overtones to be definsed as a Union College . Club. . · Aron Car-rel, Student Forum ·_ Vice Pre~ident for Academic Affairs,. reported that the General Education . Board proposal has returned to the original wording of the Science requ:irement. Therefore, in order to fill one's science reqwirement, under the prop<~sal it is necessary to take one science class with a minimum <Jf ten lab hours and anotller science course which has a math proerequisite. The A.A •. C1 is also continuing tis work~ on the Writing Acl'()SS; · the CUJ'riculum proposal and is formulating · ·a . · Calendar·- Committee whose fWtction will be ·to work on the academic calendar with the objective of minimizing the scheduling fluctuati{)ns (}f the Fall term. Fi:nally, the ad hoc committee on Alternative Uses of the College Center presented their suggesti()ns to the Forum. The suggesti()ns will be sent to the proper administrators on campus. The St\ldent Forwn will be meeting tonight at 7:00 p.m. in room 409 of the College. The. ~ntl:re colleg.e- co~Wlity: is welcome to attend. · \Grenada The Smoldering Revolution\ A lecture by Caldwell Taylor, one ofthe leaders in Grenada's New Jewell Movement revolution in 1919, and until the U.S. invru;i~n. in 1983 the Grenadian Ambassado-r to the UN for the Pooples Revolutionary Government. Tayl>Or will present a political survey of cUITent developments in the Caribbean and Centra] America, including an analysis of the ·present situation in Grenada. Wednesday May 18, 7:30p.m., in College Center 410. Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. College Community and Public is invited. THIS WEEK'S EVENTS:---. Thursday, May 12 7p.rn. flp.m. fl p.m. tl p,rn, Greelc Week (Can't.) Fr;(<faY', May 13 1 i a.rn, 3:30p.m. 7. 9; 11 p.m. 8 p:m. GrHk W-eek (Con't.) Delta Gamma Olympics Delta Chi Cabaret. College Center. Mountebanks Pr&.sent: Pippin., Nott Memorial. Lecture: Dick Clark: \G•orbachev's Revolution.• CC Aud. Cabaret. CC Atriurn. Lecture: Prof. Frank Gado \Autobiographical Writing: The Fiction ofT ruth\. CC rm. 409 PhHosoplly Dept. ~ecture: Prof. Joan Stambaugh. Hum.213. Film: Fatal Attraction CC Aud. Mountebanks present: Pipplr-1. Nott Memorial. Sa1urday, May 14 5·7:3() p.m. Dutchman's Dinn.er. Dutch H011low Res. 7, 9, 11 p.m. Film: Fatal Attr.actiO>n. CC Aud. 6 p.m. Octavos concer.t featllring -vespers.• Memorial Chapel. · Greek Week Continues(!) Sllllday, . May 15 12::10-2:30 p.m. :i:Oil !J.m. &- 7:30 p.m. '1, 9. 1.1 D.m. Special Olympics. Ou1door Track. Empire State Yollltn.Ofch. COflOOrt. Memorial Chapel. Dutchman's Oinrnor. OlJtch Hollow Res. Film: F.tal .Attactlon. OC Aud. l \ . ' \ '· .\

Page· 4 Restore the Nott Student Initiative Sponsors Open Forum .Funding Specifics Argued Continued fr.om page 1 ~Tuesday's Forum was directed at discussing ''The Future Uses of the Nott.\ Panelists for the .forum were Professor Daniel Robbins of the Art History Department, Professor George, and Bemis.· The predominant proposal for · the future use of the Nott was as a museum geared at displaying the College ~s vast collection of art and historical pieces. \It would be a great thing for American Architecture and Union College if the Nott was restored as the Nott Memorial,\ commented Robbins. He expanded on his view by citing Eliphalet Nott's original intentions for the building. \Nott~s dr~am was to complete Ramee's plans for the campus· with a . central, roWld building\ tbat would Wlite the campus-both physically and symbolically. Hence, fulfilling the notion behind the College's name, Union. It was intended to be an Alumni Hall, dedicated to ' displaying the successes of the College. Robbins continued by saying that' 'the College badly requires a museum.\ We are, perhaps, the only college of this age and distinction that doesn't have a place to house -the physical history ofthe College.\ ;,;:·,;George agreed adding, \We '·o.on't say that (we are a very ,.. ... i.n).portant institution with a ···m~tory worthy of recognition) very effectively-;- To establish the Nott, that would be a great statement.\ Comments from the panelists were followed by a session where questions and statements were fielded from the floor. Discussion included the funding for the Nott. Debate over the exact lengths at which the Administration has taken was raised. According to .Bemis, the Administration had -:not taken any action to receive .. funding until the past · . :pecember, despite the Fe€-ent ·~creation of the Environmental Quality Bond Act in 1986 which includes an allocaion of funds directed towards the restoration of historical land- marks. Vice President of In- stitutional Planning Jack Maranville, who had been in attendance at the forum commented on Bemis' remark stating that the processes by · which one attains funding is long and complicated. Much work was required .before a proposal could be presented to New York State. He ended stating that \the A-d- ministration had been quite aware.\ Bemis returned by referring to the 1973 Mesick report, which did an inspection on the building and reported the findings to the College. He questioned why has the Colfege not taken any moves towards restorinf~ the Nott within the 15 years since its release. \It's been 15 years since the report came out~and no action.\ Concerning general funding, Robbins added that whatever the solution to the use of the Nott, \there also has to be a solution to where will the theatre be. Wnen discussing funding for tbe restoration and renovation of the Nott, one must realize. that finding a home for the theatre also becomes part of the.:price tag.\ ·. CONCOR·DIENS1S; 'May , 12',\ l988 Gutman Presents the L:iberal Democratic .Philosophy of· ~Edu.cation Continued from page 1 · the greatest comprehension of truth can only be asertained through . the study of the greatest literary achievements. If universities d() not cultivate intellectual values then who will? Pluralists r,espond that intellectual values are im· portant only if they lead to good futures. Admiral Tuf;il~r NoteS Five Trends in iJ.,s.<. Policy . Continued from page 1 certain extent, nuclear arms are increasingly losing their importance. \Due to (recent) reductions (the INF treaty)., both sides showed that they do not want to use nuclear arms and that it is more dangero~ than useful to use them at all.'' Turner stated that .Western Europe . is now (perhaps reluctantly) taking more of the burden in the defense of Western Europe, which he feels · is \healthy.\ Turner feels that our reduced -influence in this sphere can help us concentrate on other regions (such as Asia) though it will significantly re~~e our influence on .Eqtope politically, economically, and socially. · Forme.r director of the CIA, Turner than turned to the s· · often political :world· of tansfield Turner~ · natural dislike for Russia.\ Mter the !';peech, the Admiral answered . several quesions on forei&n policy, while hardly any questions were addressed to his days with the CIA. The one CIA question addressed in the Chapel dealt with the coor- dination of the failed rescue attempt in Iran in 1979. Here he told of. how the CIA was· in. volved in . ~urveying the possibilities of the ntission, and how tney successfully ac- complished thatgoal. The crash of the helicopters was an ac- cident, ~nd tile CIA had little to do with the mission. · · After the speech, Turner answered . a few questions Fegarding his feelings and the CIA. He feels, in regard to the Amy Gutman's combination, a liberal democratic, is best illustrated in her example. A pluralist would study how a doctor treats his patients. An essentialist would stqdy what makes a good doctor. A liberal democratic would study how a doctor treats his patients. An essentialist would study what makes a good doctor. A liberal · economics, beginning by citing that in the last ten years a 430 billion dollar investment' swing from abroad into the United · · that the United States is not a .s respected as we once were. For e~amples: Turner mentioned · kidnapping, terrorist attacks, and international political blunders. He offered many • rec~nt troubles ,ofthe agency, . that '~the problems they (tile . ·CIA) are facing today are do to . abuses of their privileges.\ As far as the 48,hour respcmsibility . democratic would study how a good doctor treats his patients. The liberal democrat is more a contrast than a combination. Since it partially accepts both philosophies it rejects them also. Liberal education demands the reading of great works plus application toward a good life. These works should be read with the spirit of freedom._ Unfamiliarity leads to ·blind rejection, whj.le intimidation leads to blind . acceptance. Students should' learn not for . the sake of learning, but for the love of learning. The university should serve as the base for her philosophy. It - inust- tie · 'tlie ~ haven for new or unorthodox ideas, but also tile protector of the old ones. It should free nothing from criticism and it should be the vessel in which education movestoward pupose · and reality. Boti:J. sides showed that they do not want to use ·nuclear arms, and that it is more dangerous than useful to use them at all. States has drastically altered our economic position. Due to · America's fall in the economic world, Turner feels that the next president will have to face this natinal dilemma. 1 'We can . not afford to be as gentlemanly as we once were,\ commented the Admiral. . Economic choices, viewed Turner, are going to be the important issue in upcoming years. As our economic health becomes more important, Turner feels th;:lt we will have to sacrifice in areas such ~s the military to regain unques.tioned pr~nnirrence> Turner feels· this . wriuld tie ironic, because, \as · we will depend more and more o~ t~e third world in trade, they w1U m turn look to us more and more for military support ... and we're going to need all the help we. can get to pull on the oars.\ Turner then spoke on the fact · solutions., including the obvious · onj} that· \the United States · should hold on tightly to its philosophy· and ideology, and work together with all nations towards a better world.\ The Admirai concluded his , address by reaffirming all ofhls ideas as well as stating the greatness which America still enjoys, and that despite our fall from dominance in the world, we still lead the world in vir- tually all facets. He did con- . elude, though, that \we canno .. longer rely on our military and economic might\ to get us by and that \we must increase our · politieal ability\ in order to achieve the \dynasty\ we enjoyed in years past. Turner · . also ,restate, in regard to in- ternational respect, that \we · 'wlll ·regain respect, by being true to our ideals, and the (belief) that thw world has a · clause to the Congress, Admiral Turner stated \I have always been in f~vo_r of it (the clause)., becau::;e It g1ves enough time·to The Admiral commented that \we have overmagnifled· the problem ill Central America.\ complete {activities) while still keeping in. touch with Congress.'' Briefly, the Admiral- also commented that \we have overmagnified the problem in Central America,\ 'lThe CIA agents today have a changing role. Computers, and now even satellites, do most of the work, arid the agents often do what the machines cannot.\ Turner stated that while this' ~:·:;;:is distressing to many, it fosters more efficiency in the depart- ment overall. · Get a Clue Professor Martin Outlines Problems with Strategic Defense Initiative . . - : - Get an Opinion Continued from page 3 destroys all early warning satellites. lbe nuclear ex- plosions . in space. -wipe out communications · over the power. This is \'blinding\ the enemy. In the \minute six\ phase of a first strike, the at- tacking power destroys the leadership and control centers. There's now no one to push the button. ''You've taken out the eyes, now you lop off the head.'' In \minute 15\ the power destroys the .other powers long- range missles. Subs are taken out, as well as airfields. Professor Shanebrook, describes this phase as, \head's gone, now arms, what's left? Not much.\ \All time,... during this attack, enemy missles that might have gotton through .are shot down by SDI. So \Star Wars starts it all and Star Wars ends it all.\ For Shanebrook, you can't fight a war to win without Star Wars. ~The chance for victory .goes to he ·who strikes first, and the only way to strike first is Star Wars. Professor. . Sbanebrook commented during the question and answer periqd that originally the ,panel wanted to have a debate, but they could not find anybody to argue in favor of SDI. A father later noted that \the State Depart- ment ~ould send somebody- you IDlght wonder if he .r~ny believes what he's saying- but they'll send somebody.'' Professor Martin discussed a petition he circulated in op- position to SDI. He received 30 signatures out of a science News Analysis · PAGE 2 faculty of75. -~ G.U·ARANTEED ,AN:CliG Q,U,ALI·F·fED B'UYER·S~ MINIMAL· DOWN .PAYME,NT. GIVE 'youRSELF A NEW FORD.FOR .· G:RADU~TION. ·Y'OU WORKED HARD, . . YOU D'ESERVE IT! *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: CENTRAL AVE; . .. NY 12208 la•u•14 • J

' J . T :. ·CONCQR.l)1ENS1S~ .. j(•(tJ\ 12, 19~8 would like to thank the Union College Community for participating in the Voter R~gistration Drive held last ·Thursday, May 5 Well over 150 students - ' , ' ,-.., . •. • ' - ' ' ' •-' I • '• • • • ~ . - ' ' • .• ' · · ·•· ·. from the states · of New York, New Jersey and • • ?> ' ' ,·' ' Connecticut were registered. Due tq the tremendous response, CONCORDIENSIS ~ will sponsor a registration table next September. \ CONCORDIENSIS ·also wishes to extend its gratitude to the League of Women Voters.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, May 12, 1988 F'EA TURE·s- •.:·~·:·-: .• . ~ ..._. Increasing Visibility of \Union's Best Kept Secret\ .Any Students Interested in having a booth for Fitzh'ugh Ludlow Day•s Flea Market May2o 10:30 am .. 4 p.m Library Plaza, ByTitACEY PRYLUCK The American Studies Program, an interdepartmental program which has been in existence at Union College for over- two decades, has suffered from decreased enrollment over the past few years. History Professor Manfred Jonas, director of the' program, believes that the major reason for the decline in enrollment, otherthan a nation .. wide decline after the program's boom in the 1960's and 1970's is due to a large degree of ignorance of the program's existence on the part of Union students and faculty. Professor Jonas .is therefore taking steps to increase the program's visibility and attract more students. American Studies combines courses and seminars in American history and Ameriean literature with at least three courses compiled from the arts, economics, political science, and sociology departments. As Professor Jonas ex:plained, ''American Studiestb.us offers students the opportunity to follow a variety of interests, while at the same - time providing a method for combining approaches and disciplines to yield a better Widerstanding of American life and American ~:~ociety than any departmental major can give/' The most recent graduates of the p~ograrn have gone on to law or graduate school, or entered business or government service. One of last year's graduates has been awarded an assistantship at the University of Florida, where she has enrolled .in the Ph. D. program in history for next fall. Professor Jonas believes that the new General Education Program, which will go into effect with the Class of 1992, will 'be conducive to any area studies program, but personally recommends American Studies. Area studies programs provide students with a chance to concentrate on a major by Outing Club's Photo of the Week New this week and every week fcllowing compliments cf the Outing Club Andre Haddad and Jeff Shoemate have brought the Outing . Club to the Shawagunks in New Paltz. The climbs have been top-roped for us to gain rock experiences safely. The climber · is belayed from the ground, attached to the end of a rope whicll runs through two carabines secured to a tree or boulder · at the top of the cliff, and back to the ground held by using a friction device. ;, j I \ 'II ,: Climbing the Shaw~gunks of New Paltz · subject area as opposed to by discipline. The GE program requirements can also he used .to fu1fil.l many requirements f<Jr the American Studies Program. For example students will be required to take a two:term introductory history sequence. By taking this sequence in American history, they will meet two requirements for both ,programs. Professor Jonas is attempting to increase the visibility of the American Studies Program by \sponsoring things around campus.'' The first sucll pmgram will be ''An Evening of Voices from 'Th.e Good. War'\ based on a book by Chicago joW'nalist Studs Terkel which compiles an oral history. of World War II. The presentatim is scheduled for 7: 3() on Mon;- . day, May 16 in the College Center Auditorium. Another potential boost to the American Studies Program will be in connection with the Masters portion of the Educational Studies Program. A specUlative American Studies Seminar, op-en to graduate students, as well as American Studies undergraduate seniors, would, in Pr.ofessor Jonas' opinion, provide \an ideal major along the social studies tract\ of junior high and high school education. Other ideas are still Under consideration, as Professor Jonas continues -in his attempt to increase visibility of what he considers to be \Union's best kept secret.'' · please contact Pat • at 372-0172 o·r . Mrs. Marra at Student Activities at 372-6332 ' · . . .. -:· . S.P.A.A. Defined \. By BOB GOLDSTEIN In: an effort to dispel some of the confusion over SP AA, I attended one of the group's meetings last Thursday. The group discussed the specifics <Jf several events all of which are designed to stimulate campus awareness of certain issues, some of which also acted on these issues. Some of the most common questions about the group are answered below: What is SPAA's .purpose? SP AA, the Students for Political Awareness and Activism, is a student activity this year to ( 1) examine political issues which affe« Union students, international, national, or within the college; (2) educate the college com- munity,. making them aware of tllese issues, and (3) participate in making or changing policies central to these issues, in a way decided by- the membership. Who Is in SPAA? SP AA is open to all Union students paying a student ac- tivities fee, regardless of political ideology. The co· chairpeople are Denise Fein5od and Stephanie Hirnak. The three other board members are Debbie MUlford, Frank Fit· zgerald, and Axel Bauman. The mailing list includes 40 mem· hers, approximately 20 of which are active. Any of the members can suggest an event for SP AA to sponsor, which can be con· sidered a SP AA event onlY after a vote, two-thirds of which must be in favor of the event. Contact 393-3491 Lisa What does SPAA do? The group has co-sponsored (with BLAS) one event thus far, the Candlelight Vigil on the twentieth anniversary of Martin Luther King's assassination. A Latin America Day is scheduled for May 26, with lectures, slide shows, a panel discussion, a political theater, and a benefit concert, for the Peace Convoy. (The Peace Convoy is a caravan of trucks with hwnanitarian aid for people living in Nicaragua, run largely by veterans of Viet Nam.) Events suggested for the Fall include a Nuclear Awareness Day, a workshop on racism, and some en- vironmental projects. Each of these activ:ities is ·expected to educate students and to make them aware of the issues; some are also to take action on these issues. How is SPAA funded? SPAA was approved as a student activity with funding by both the Committee on Com- mittees and the Student Forwn. 'Ihe Student Forum will vote on their request for approximately $2000 for the current term when the students present more specific details on spending. '!heir request for $9950 for 1988;89 has been refused for the same reason. Finance Com- mittee member David Pike said, \The bud_gef can be reconsidered when more details on spending are provided.'' The money for next year 1 s budget must now come from the sur- plus in this year's Student Activities fund. 346-4897 Conrad The money requested b()m the Student Forum is only for the non-partisan activities of SP AA. (Section II, Subsectlon VIII, A.4 ·.of the Student Government Club and Com- mittee Handbook States tllat \Awareness .groups which :are fWided Will not receive funding for the spedfic use of sup- porting a specific partisan or secUlar issue or ideal.\) The money for specific partisan activities approved by SPM members wiH come fmm outside sources, including or- ganizations which support eaeh event. In their 1988-'89 Bud~et Request Justification, the group calls itself \an essential de'Vice for stimulating awareness {)n campus ... open to all ideas tllat any student may have,'\ to create a ''better educated campus, on many issues.\ The group's meetings are an- nounced by posters in the College Center and are open to everyone. May 17 TUESDAY, AFTERNOON • 4~0M9~0 • ALL THE BE'ER AN.D WINE YOU CAN.DRIRK- $l7 .. 5G Includes Trariipoiktation

CONCORDIENSIS, Mtiy ·12, 1988. Page 7 ........ ---~~-----~------ _ _,__:.__ ~ -----,. -- ·----~---··--·- - ·-~---.-- ••• ...._. __ .__._ -~---- --- <-- -- ' •• . r '-\lfri/\• A Bizarre Parents' By_AARON ILAN 1 decided to foreg() the usual entertainment tllis parents' weekend and instEad chose a more b~arre schEdllle of events to amuse my .family. My mother and sister drove foar hours up here to see me, so r tigured they would appreciate a little ex- citement after sueh a long, boring ride. \so wllat did I do?\ you ask. Did I bdng them· to Memorial Chapel to see Admiral Turner speak? Nab. Did I take them to the Nott to ~see ~'Pippin?\ Hell no. I decided to go off campus a:Qd impress my fCimilY with the capital district's most .popular tourist attraction. That's .right, we· hung out in the bulk food section of Price Chopper all..night. . Whether we realite it or not,. all of us Union stllilents have built up an immwity to the enthralling charm of those magical wooden barrels. We no longer feel the irrefltistible urge to satnple an item :from every single bin, inclulling the one containing those Jittle yogurt covered dog bones, Being new to the entire Priee Chopper experierice, h()wever, my family was thoroUghly enr~ptured with tile plethora of exotic delicC1cies at their fingertips. My sister bought a ten-year supply of wagon wheels, while my mom preferred the more unusual treats like gununy spleens and muskrat trail mix. After I rounded out our purchases with a few slices from the bulk toast bin, we beaded. out to the parking lot to enjoy a feast none of us will soon f()rg~t. . . After such a. blissful af- - ternoon, we dec:ided to · ex- perience an eve11ing of high- tension, kill-.o r-be .. killed, ruthless competition. Where better to find this~ thought I, than at the third annual Schenectady Comty Armadillo Show, held in the 'Troy Iv.l$ic Hall Savings Bank:. The com- petition was ceriamJ,y fierce this year as Fippy the Armadillo, owned by Lucretia Phenome of R()tterdam, just barely nosed out local favorite, Agamemnon, owned by Mahatma · Hrbek {)f Schenec~ tady. The armadillos were judged . on appearance, grooming, long·jlimping and lip-syncing. Fipp.y sealed his victory in the final stage with a moving rendition \f the Pajama Slave Dancers' '~'Frain Wreck on Prom Night.\ My sister was particularly impressed with a beautiful purple armadillo.named Stucco. Her ability to sit on · c~mmand 111 enthralled the /thousands of spectators. Alter her per- formance, Stucco told the local press how difficult it was to lea:m such tricks. \Between the post~gradti-ate courses in astrophysics I take at Dart- mouth and the two aerobics classes I teach at the 'Y', I rarely get a chance to practice them,\ she commented: Stucco's spirit and dedication moved my sister to remark in a choked-up voice, \I'm hungry. Can I have another piece of toast7\ After the show J took my family back to their hotel,. the Lizzie Borden Motor Inn. The three of us snacked on the . complimentCirY sticks of margarine as we watched a special on HBO entitled \America Undercover: The · War on Cheese Smugling· Part IV, Gouda.'' Aside from the fact· that .the next morning's eggs were a bit runny, my family was :very pleased with thier accomodations. Mom felt that the .rotting ostrich carcasses in the hallway added a nice, cozy touch of home, although after a while the stench gave my sister . a migraine. On Saturday we arose early rand headed off to Crossgates to do some shopping. AS you all know, Parents Weekend is the .perfect time to get mom and dad to. buy you all the things you've lusted after all year b11t lacked the funds to actually purchase yourself. Parents feel guijty for not having seen you for so long and hence go on otherwise inexplicable spending binges. My mother was feelifig particularly generous ·thig;, weekend, · and I walked out of the mall with two brand•new fezzes, some toe•wart medication, and a cheeseburger~ My sister cried all the way home because Mom refused to buy her that home autopsy kit, but she quieted down after we stopped off at A- plus and got her a burrito. Mom spent the rest of the weekend trying to fig~e out what that \DEC 53\ mark on the burrito wrapp~r meant. We arrived back at the college just in time to sit in on some fascinating lectures by Union's finest. Firstly, we heard a biology professor give a speech entitled \Dissecting- the . Hobby That Lasts a Litetime.;' We then moved next door to hear a philosophy lec- ture called ''Noneof You Really. Exist.\ Lastly, we heard the linebacker coach speak on \The Al.l God's Chillun Got Wlngs ·~· A, story of unforgivable desire There will be an informational meeting for ~hose· interested iri THE WASHINGTON INTERNSHIP PROGRAM for the 1988-1989;:&ghool year. It will be held in SS1 O~:at:4:000 pm on Monday, May-~t:f?th. Weekend Jock Strap- What Is It, an(J What Can 'It Do For You?\ . FEATURES . OveraU, the famUy was mighty pleased with Union. The fact that we have the world~s largest juicer (a.k.a. the N()tt,) in the middle of campus especially impressed them. My sister was awed by my room- mate's slug collection, and my mom ~ppeared to be quite in- · trigued by the moss growing on my dirty lawHiry. Yes, there was certainly an unlimited supply of strange and in• · teresting things to see and do ' 'round here last weekend. If . your parents didn't make it up, here, send them this article and make them feel really guilty. After all, what ·1.1re parents for? Parents enjoying just one of the various displays ol student talent this past weekend. Student Talent vs. Parent's oil Campus: Which is More Entertaining? BySUSANSHAFFER We owe our lives to our parents, literally. ·Who we are today and how we view things has a lot to do with how we were raised. We are our parents~ livelihood, yet at the age of eighteen we all left home and · left our folks for a brighter future at Union. They spent their time, energy and money grooming us to be the fine young adults we all are~ Of course, they miss us dearly- Why else would they drive for · miles to stay in chintzy motel rooms with nothing to do after ·10:00- at night when their children'.abandon 'them· for t:he Unh;n .social life. This past parents' weekend appeared to go very well. It is a tough call as to what was more entertaining, the stu<:tent talent or the parents. My par~nts were very impressed with the talent which they viewed and enjoyed. I, too, was very prl;)ud of my schoolmates. The parents did come in a close second for the entertainment title, however. As they paraded around campus it seemed as if there was a competition as to who was the wittiest, most personable, most like their children, etc. One activity that should have been scheduled is a line-up for the parents where the students guess who they belong to. I overheard one student tell his father that all the parents looked alike. The father responded that it was because all the students looked alike. · . The school did a great job of preparing the campus for our folks. The giant ditch which adorned the courtyard between Plll Sig and .. ZBT was strangely filled -in, however. The fl<!wers and balloons iJJ. most of the buildings were a surprising sight; Many of the performances this weekend were a pleasant treat. The Choir, Orchestra, Jazz Ensemble, Concert Band, Gospel Ensemble, cast of Pippin, cast of All God's Chillun Got Wings, Dutch Pipers and Garnet Ministrelles, those who read from 'The Idol, the con- tributors in the arts atrium, those who performed at the Apollo Theater, the competitors in the Blatchford Oratorical Contest, those who participated in En Garde, D~nce Club, and ·the Cabaret aU deserve a round of applause. Anyone who at- tended all of these events should also be applauded. We must remember that we are all here and talented due to our folks. THANKS, MOM & DAD!! ! SENIORITIS by LeAta Jackson Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular interest to members of the class of '88 • Order Cap & Gown in tile bookstore by tomorrow (Friday). • If you have received a job offer or been accepted In a graduate program, please check In with Lori Rodrigue in the CDC . • If you want. to give a speech at commencement, a rough draft is dlle in Mrs. Marra·~ office tomorro\,'1. • You should have gotten a nOtice in your mailbox about tickets for Oo you. realize we are the last class to remember: ·The guy that warme~ up the crowd beforlll, the movies In SS016. •The little old lady, .Fresh 'Kid, who worked In West •• .\'1 need! I neecll\ \The Real World\. These three words are a bit unsettling for some of us. It seems less tllan half of the semiors know what they ar& going to do next year. Bell Labs, Xerox, AT&T, GE, Coopers & .Lybrand, the U.S. Government. Columbia Business School, Al.bany Law, Albany Mad, Graduate programs at U. of Washington and George Mason, Ph.D. programs, teaching at private schools, being commisioned in the armed forces, traveling on the Watson, ... Another hall of the class is still \Waiting to hear\. And the rest have not started looking yet. Out on our own will mean our own place, our own bills, our own car (not Mom's or Dad's, your car with your insurance and your car note). Oh my God! R-E-S-P-O.:N-S-1-B-1-L-1- T-YJAost of the alum.nila.::~ wi~h whom I have sMken have said \it's great.', \You'll love it. It's exciting. You're making it on your own.\ Can you imagine your crazy roommate from freshman year who only slept, ate, and partied actually · going to tne grocery store for retll food and paying his/her phone bill on time, and getting l.lp before nine in the morning? It seems far-fetched for some, but it's just around the corner. We snould meet it with optimism, eager anticipation, a little planning and common sense. Get psyched for the real • worldUI NEED. EXTRA CASH? We are looking for stadents who want to earn some fm1, easy money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion Weekend (June 12 . & 13), please stop by the Alumni Office or call . Sharon or Kerry at 6168 Greek Week! Designed to promote frienship and intra campus communication. Participate with strength and sportsmanship.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May l2, 1,88 FEATURES The image we portray for parents Do You Care What You Eat? By SUZANNE SHAKER Do you care what you eat? What you put intc that precious mouth of yours? Do you want to be a healthy person? Is nutrition and a proper diet important to you? Let us hope that most of you have answered yes to the following-questions; at least let me think so. For most of us getting a well balanced diet, all four food groups and the proper nutritional make-up is far from easy. In all honesty I think I can safely say that most of us want to be \healthy to be \in shape,\ physically fit and looking good~ but many of us don't want to sacrifice the junk food, the greasy french fries, the Domino's, the Ben & Jerry's the wings etc. We don't want to work at it. It is especially difficult at college to diet or to \just watch what we eat,\ to resist the temptation which surrmmds us everywhere we turn. There is no hiding from food and fattening food at that, but that doesn't mean we can't fight the fat, the sweets, the junk. O.K., O.K., so we have established the fact that food exists everywhere we turn. So we must mak:e the decision not to buy the \garbage.\ We must have the strength, the willpower, the determination to resist. We are not only victims of our own dorm rooms, fraternity hollSe.s, the Pizza Pu~, the Skellar, and the Dutch Hollow but we are also the ·victims of Union College foo~J. services. This article should not. be seen as an attack on the dining services, it is not an excllSe to gripe and lay down my own personal complaints. Although tllere are many problems with the dining ser- vices on camplis, and I know that I am not alone in . saying this, the situation is not hopeless. There is definite room for improvement, changes can and will be made, in fact some already have been. Believe it ()r not we students do have a say; we do have the power of influence even in those areas which seem in general to be run strictly by the ad- ministration food services, for example. Many administrators do care about what the students hav~ to say aad what they want. For those of you who dine in Carnegie andlor West by now you must have noticed, and if you haven't please make it a The Department of History The Interdepartmental Program in American Studies arrl The Minerva Committee present AN EVENING OF VOICES from \THE goon WAB\ .Oral Histories of World War II (Phantheon aooks, 1984) by STUDS TERKEL *** With storytellers JEANNINE .LAVERTY SUSAN FANTL .SPWACK TOM WEA.Jtl.EY ••• College Center Auditorium VNION COLLEGE May 16, 1988, 7:30p.m. Legal :By TINA SCIOCCHEm Dear Legal Brief, I am getting married in June and · rm very happy about it. There's just one pr()blem. My first name is Carol and my Brier·· Barrington, IL 60301, or consult your o:wnfawyer. · Legal advice :provided by Paul V. Sci{)cchetti Attorney at Law Schenectady, NY fiance's last name .is Carroll. t- __________ _, That would make my name • .after marriage Carol Carroll. As you can see, the name would leave me open to some ridicule · and I have already had to face jokes from family and friendS. I don't think it's a laughing matter. I am now considering keeping my own last name _or perhaps .hyphenating my last ' name with my husband's, How . does this work legally? . .:.· ~w·ord.ol The Week Flazgla Def: G l'aflaz ... . .... Good News! The procedures' are relatively simple. If you . want to keep your maiden name li! after you are married, in forty- ·~ eight states, all youhave to do is 11. to continue using your maiden ~ name after you're married. In Alaska you'll have to fill out a special form and in Hawaii, you . must simply sign . y:our What we really are! marriage certificate with the name you intend to use after · marriage. If you opt to create a new name on marriage by hyphenating, or otherwise· combining, the birth names of yourself and your husband, that too is generally permissible. JllSt assume the new name after the wedding and continue ::; to use it. Finally, if you choose ~ tc assUine your husband's last ~ name tdter marriage and then a: find that you are facing .. un~ ~ . favorable · ridicUle, you can (S .. ~··Change· iQctCk to yollf maiden · ·~.· name. In most states, you'll just . iE have to change your name on all your IPs and notify interested parties. However, in some states, you may have to go to ·. Right, · court to have your name . changed. If y:ou run into any difficulties, you can get in touch ·with the Center for a Woman's Own Name, 261 Kimberly, point to (for my sake if for no other reason) the newly established health bar, an extension of the salad bar. This health bar, which is still only in· tlie beginning stages, provides· students with an alternative to the \run of the mill\ all American foods :normally served. When completed the health bar will contain foods lower in fat and calories, natural foods and generally more healthy food. No we are not . trying to turn you into \crunchy\ granola people. Eventually the hot food section will be transformed as well. The main dishes Win be prepared both \normally fried and/or in heavy {often times very fattening) sauces and in a lighter, less fattening, lower calorie . manner, baked or broiled. There are also plans to upgrade the vegetarian menu, with the possibility cf hiring or Dave! training a vegetadan chef. Specialized These changes are being made through the. menu committee, a well kept secret here at Union. So you see there is a formal conuni,ttee in which you can voice your concerns and they will be heard. The menu committee meets. on Thursdays at 11 a.m. in the College Center, first floor {the Dutch . Holl~w are~). Suggestions for Improvements are taken seriously and things do get done quickly, yes much to my surprise too. I encourage any and all of you,. whQ have specific changes you want to see be made in the food services to attend the menu committee meetings~ The issue isn't Apartheid or terrorism, but · nutrition and health are im- portant and why shouldn't we .care about what we eat? How-we live! Storytellers .Ptesent VDiees . lrDm the ,,, ByTRACEYPRYLUCK The American Studies Program and the Minerva Conrulrittee 1Vlil .be presenting \.An Evening of Voices from 'The Good War\' this M?nday, May 16 at 7:30 p.m. rn the_ College Center Auditorium. Storytellers Jeannine Laverty, Susan Failtl Spivack and Tom Weak:ley will read. selections from Studs . Terkel's book on World War II, a compilation of merne>ries collected from in- terviews with the survivors of the Second World War. The excerpts Will include monologues and dialogues, and have been previously presented by the ensemble at Caffe Lena, Skidmore College; Crandall Library of Glens Falls, and in many- area high schools. JeanineLa,verty,aresident of Sarat()ga Springs and a professional storyteller, is a freque11t guest of libraries and scho()]s, as well as the director of storytelling training programs which she offers several tim.es,a year. Susan Spivack is a writer as well as a storyteller. She has published her work in regional journals, such as. ·Groundswell and Bllleline. She is on the staff of Alternative Literary Program in the Schools (ALPS) and bas done storytelling residencies around New York State. Torr. Weakley has been selected by the Vermont Council of the Arts as a touring storyteller this year, going to scho~ls, community centers, and other publie locations. When he isn't telling stories, Weak:ley runs his own business in Vermont. CRUISE SHIPS NOW HIRING MJF Summer & career OpportunHies(WIII Train). • I Ex:cetlent pay plus wor1d tmet. Havvall, BahamaS, caribbean, etc. CALL NOW: 206· 736-0775 ext. 900N

FEATURES 'Twisiifi~ By the Pool ByLISACilERANDE Is it possible to raise money for tel'in,inally ill children and still have ·fun d()ing so? This year Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity and Delta Delta Delta SQroJ\ity will ,prove. that this can be done with their · First Annual Twisting Sf the Pool Outdoor. Party, With all pvoceeds going to be~efit .the Starlight Foun· dation, the~ two neignboring G.ree·ks hope to start a charitable tradition t:bat will stand alongside with such in· stitutio:ns as Camp Union and Fitz]lugh !:ludlow. Day. \Starlight starbright first star I see tonight, wish I may, wish I might, have the wish I WiSh tonight.~' T.bis childhood peem is the motto of the Starlight Foundation which grants wisheS of critically, chronically, and· terminally ill children. This organization, the only one of its.ltind, was founded by the actress Emma Samms and her cousin Peter Samuelson to bring \last ·Wishes\ as a glilnm.er of hope and joy to seriously ill children from the ages of 2% to 18. The wishes granted range from three broad categories. . . First, is tbe · arrangement of a vast-nwnber of celebrities to visit and correspond with the children ill hospitals and hospices across the c~untry: Ronald. Reagan, Burt :ReynoldS, Lionel Richie, and Melissa Gilbert, to name just a few. Secondly, Starlight receives many requests for events like the, opportwlity to ride l,n a race car or be on television, And finally Starlight grants many terminally ill children and their families the opportunity to travel. A1tho11gh Starlight's primary objective is to avoid ever saymg \no\ to any child., it is an e~pensive proposition granting trips to Hawaii and Disney World. Starlight i$ also currently un- dergoing expansion ()f new chapters andtheir functions. All this requires large fund raisers,. as all expenses are covered by the generosity of donors and volUnteer workers. The money raised at Twisting By the Pool will an be donated to· the Starlig-ht Foundation for wherever its use is most needed. Pray·for .sun on Saturday May 21 since the party will be held outdoors iil front of ZBT all day, from 11:30 unti16:00.\0f c::ourse if circumstances beyo11d ZBT and Tri~Delta's control come into pla_y ~like rain!) tlten the party will be held. the f()llowing day. The activities--of the day · include bands and food, raffle tickets, more bands and .food, and . a chance to beat with .a sledge hanuner that ol<i jalopy of a cat which has its engine hanging by a thread f;rom un- derneath and a muffler so loud that even Speedy Muffler· couldn't remedy it. The raffle has as its grand pri2:e _a two · · person, five jet spa-llot tub valued at $2500 donated by Islan<ter Pool andSpaofColonie NY, and nwnerous gift cer- tificates at local restaurants We're Planning an t ~' ~- \ EARTH DAY llnd stores as runner-up prizes. Lots of food will be for ·sale throughout the day-- hambutgers, hot dogs, and Ben and Jerry's ice cre1:1n1. But the higblight of the party sh!)uld be the :band festival. Four Union ·bands will: ·be pla~g. In order of performance: ''Melanie and the Mixed Nuts,\ \The Toasted O'S,\ ''The Other Side\ (wh{) have played at Nightshift and Slapshets), and \The Jones.\ Master ·of Ceremonies for the occasion will be Eric Gural, who will also be performing a stand up comedy, along with Timothy Wymes. Buy a t-shirt, come to the party, and support the Starlight Roun~tion. l guarantee that .this new annual event will be lQads of fun., and who knows maybe you will discover that doing something for a good cause can be f11n! BuY• GREEK WEEK T-SHIRT - Buy a D-CHI CABARET TIE· DYE Buy-a FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY ·y .. sHIRT Buy a AAA-ZBT IWISTIN BY THE POOL T~SHIRT . ' - . . . .. Bur a CAMP UNION T-SHIRT Buy an EARTH DAY T-SHIRT Buy a RUM& REGGAE T-SHIRT Buy a ••• SEX ON THE BEACH 1-SHIRT COURT.ESY OF ISLANDER POOL AND SPA / l ' •• ' ~. '~. ' ' : • 1 _;.. ~ ·-·· '~.; :. - 'I . Schenectady's Hungry ALII l•llUWITI Ailllllll AIIIIIIIALI AT Ill CII!.LIII CIITIIIIIII lA I llsm~a! Jlil By KARA MERRILL Ethiopia, famines and deserts--these are probably some images that c~me to ntind when thinking of the problem of hungeJ.'. We might forget people right in Schenectady County going hungry due -to fires, unemployment, illness or personal handicap. According tothe 1980 Census, Schenectady CoUiltY had 1,462 families living below the poverty level which included 4,319 chilCiren 17 and younger. Four organizations, three local and one international, have ·.decided to tackle · this problem. Catholic Family and Community Ser'Vices, Schenectady Inner City Ministry Emergency Food I>fogram, Concerned for t~e Hungry and CROP (an :ap- ternation~ r~elief service) are organi2ing :a HWiger Walkathon with 15 percent of the money benefitting · Schenectady area programs. The 10 ki:l(lmeter walk will begin at 1: 00 ~I>·m• at nearby Linton High School. Last year, over $10,()00 was raised. Part of this money helped 'Concerned fpr the Hungry run a commw11ty soup kitchen with the Salvation Army · and 31 churches ~nd synagogues. The kitchen served 25,000 hot meals last year and ' received the Eleanor Roosevelt Commtmity Service A ward for outstanding volunteer serv'ice. Money raised ls also used to stock emergency food shelves, provide .food for the elderly and donate .food baskets to needy families at Thanksgiving time (over 2,100 food baskets were distributed last year). 0 i l;:;! Concerned fo~; the HWigry states as one of its goals, \to provide concerned people with opportunities to help.\ Please take · advantage of this op- portW1itY and give. Tables will be set up outsi¢e of the College Center on May 11, 12, and 13 to sign up sponsors and walkers. If you have any questions please. contact Kara at x6875; : '- . .... . . -.\' . Wf!ik~T.ru&!@Jllrl JJmril.U®W ~ • IS Coming -~illW ~®~lli& LL. ............... ______ ......., RAQUET-BALL !TOURNAMENT Phi Sigma Kappa Is Sponsoring A Raquetball Tourney for Juveni-le Diabetes; So Wh.ile It's Raining Play Raquetball! SIGN UP IN FRONT OF CARNEGIE ... -· ,.._ . -,· '\ ....... - ::._ . '

Page 10 CONCORDIENS.JS, May 12, 1988 ) INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Greece an,d the Term Abroad Pers:pecNve By SCOTI'ADAMS \I would rather be a meteor, every atom of me in magnificent glow, :than a sleepy and permanent pl811et. The proper function of man is to live, not to exist. 1 'Shall not waste my days in trying to prolong them. I shall use my time.\ I've respected these words from Jack London for some time. Yet my jnterp1letation of them just recently chan-ged, \I shall not waste my days in trying to prolong them. I shall use my time.\ 1 used· to thin:((, - - . oW' professor, ''The thing bss not moved a centimeter since it was completed.\ So I tread water for a few m()ments; thinking, I remembered when I was a kid and visited the fort at Ticon- deroga where one of the critical battles of the Revolutionary War was fought. How ~azing it seemed · that it was . still f reserved after so many years. could almost envision how. it must have been 200 years when we defeated the British and \our hf$ory began.\ . Well, back at home in Athens, the atmosphere was less a plastic bag filled With two liters of wine. Wbile the oozing \bag of splendor\ might have had SOIIiething to do with it, I remember sitting there, tho11$Ulds of miles_ away from the complications of college and home, the stars above me,. ocean behind, Btld a sootbing, hypnotic fire warming my front. Physically and mentally I was relaxed and felt lucky to be Where I was. I guess my point here is that, under such circumstances, you can't help but start thinkiilg about who yo\1 are, what you . , ·.Panel E{(plores French Elections lly GARY STEiNBAUM · aims Without much obstruction International Features Editor · from Mitterand. However; by and large the President wa$ In orderto add insight ~to the able to form international French elections, :the FrenCh policy; According to Professor · club sponsored a discliSSion Board, cohabitation worked ·panel last . Thursday which reasonably well for two years featured Professor Board.of the and,set ~he stage for the current Political Science Department, elections. as well as three native .French, The French elections occur in Nicholas Boch, Patrick two stages. There are two sets · Peri vier, and Professor of ~lections which . take place Laparra. two weeks apart. In the first Professor Board started·the -round anyone noniinated by a discussion by giving some patty is able to run,· and tlle history to French politics. Since second round is meant to be a 1789, there have been .fifteen run off election between the t:wo constitutions in France as well candidates with the highest - as monarchs, an ,emperor and percentage of votes . five republics. . _The first round was held April Board continued his talk'by '24, and the results which ·giving a lead into the current followed were: Mittetrand, pOlitical situation in France. He Socialist Party, 34 percent; · stated that the Third and Fourth Chirac, conservative right, 20 · Republics, the .governments percent; Barre, center right, 16 before and after World War II, percent; Le Pen, 13 .percent; were headed by weak and the Communist Party . presidents who were dominated received 7 percent. by the Parliament. There were These results spurred a many factions in the govern~ conversation about the reasons ment which made it inunoblle. for Le. Pen's appeal to the When· Charles de Gaulle French .. Le Pen's political became president of France in ideology is on the -extreme right 1958,he rewrotethe.constitution of the French political spec· which marked the beginning of trum. He is a fascist and similar the· Fifth Repuplic. There is a to Mussolini according to ! hybrid mixture of the Board. The French feel the t3 presidential and parliamentary reasons. for his popularity are < system. The president is in~ due to his racist ideas, against ~. dependent1y eleCted .. for seven immigrants from Northern C/1 years while the Parliament Africa. Some French see these headed by the prime minister new additions to French society ~· and cabinet is elected for five as taking jobs away from them ~ · years Which gives the system and their children and do not . ii \a curious overlap\ as stated see second generation im- . by professor Board. migrants as being French. Also, The Parthenon, atop the Acropolis in Athens coming into conege, that that stimulating, a tot_al con- stand for and what you'd like to meant, \Screw grades, .party tradiction to all we learned standfor. . · . , BJ!.d. h~ye, ~~~·- fUn,·~~~ yo1~ .. ·abo~J.ttM $npJ.e G{~lt,~~ture, ., , , . .Utw~ IllY. . .r¢um t~. the. won· ,., .. ·,can~mrrd 'apoiht;: :i;tnmk 'that'~\' ·wnere.wo~~P ~ay at'hQme and· ·detfQl 1 &;itQ.a11 toQ' familiar at· . .tru~~ b~t ~~~g ~c~_~o Union.,~? , !~ .~P;f:n~ w~:lif .~rs~ ~~~g or . . .. :p,to~pp~r.e .<)f. Schenecta~, I. \' · · after· -bavmg · '-sp;ent ' a term drmkirig m the eoffee shops, unmediately got \back m the abroad in Greece ()Ver the Athens was a huge, bustling city saddle\ and back in the old winter, I realize that there's of 4 million. The streets were social mode. But not without~ more to it. One thing's for sure; narrow and crowded with sense that somehow I had a from the time I arrived in buzzing traffic. Buildings were better perspective em my Athens until the time I left, I made exclusively of concrete, college life. It seems. to me that was \using my time.\ I'm sure and overhead was a cloudy haze here (as at any college) it's that the 20 other Union students of pollution. · easy to get caught weaving a who went on the trip will agree. web of stagnation. And once you Kuh·thunk. It was11't pretty, Nonetheless, in Athens there get in a rhythm, it's hard to and it probably sh~»Uld have is a certain mystique, sprouting break it. For me, a term abroad hurt. But my belly f11»p off a 15 directly from the towering was a great way to do j11$t that. foot rock into the chill protected Parthenon which stands atop Judging from the article waters of the Mediterranean the Acropolis at the center of Conrad Tatge wrote three exhilarated me. I surfaced and the city. This building seems to weeks ago about the tenn after raising my arms in vic· be the ultimate architectural abroad in Barbados (\Tlle tory, lowered them to my head. example of s~etcy and World According to Moses\) I It was numb, partly from im- exactness; yet, it must also be was not alone. He wrote, \(it) pact, partly from the-cold ·of the considered the ultimate symbol provided us With a glimpse of a water, and part!y from the of classical Greece, in the years shnpler., more natural lifestyle events of the day. of its glorious past. My fitst whichldon'tthinkanyofus:will Across the bay from me lay visit there I remember soon forget.\ Franchti Cave, the -longest thinking, \Wow in the grand continuously inhabited cave scheme of things, I really am . This system ·had-worked well many of the French who were fordeGaulle,forit fithisstrong - thrown out of Algeria after its · personality, and continued to independence are supporters of iunctjon ·,·through · the , Le Pen. Howev-er, .Professor . ·: presidencies of George Pom- Board does not feel t.e-·Pen will . pidou ,·and- Valery Giscard ·be ableto obtain much1power d'Estang. . except possibly in local, . In 1981 Francois Mitterrand municipal and even in some was elected president of Fvance parliamentary elections. along with a left wing majority · In accordance with Professor in the Parliament. However, in Board's prediction, Mitterand 1986 with -the new elections of won the presidential election the Parliament a right wing last Sunday with. a 55 percent majority came to power and majority over Chlrac. Because Jacques Chirac was named of the large majority in favor of pl.'lhne minister. This created a Mittel:' and, Chirac resigned as situation which de Gaulle did Prime Min'ister and chose not foresee when writing the Rocard, who is towards the constitution. center left, as his new prime Cohabitation, the new minister. Cohabitation will no phenomenon which faced the longer exist. · French people, left Mittetrand The discussion panel was with a rightist parliamentary informative and aided one in majority hostile to him. understanding the current Professor Board teremd French elections. Professor cohabitation as a '''friendly Board and the Fren¢h Club did divorce\ Within the govem· a large service in giving a · ment. The government · of complete presentatlon of the Chirac wascalld'W~d·to ·follow its situation. ever found. People lived there pretty damned insignificant.\ for 27,000 years; from 30;000 BC to 3,000 BC. THJS WEEK IN THE WORLD Earlier that day we had waited the famous 81ll.lihitheatre at Epidauros. An amazing architectural wonder-of•the- world, it is so .stl\Udlll\ally exact, being built on the basis of the later-named Fi bonicci number system, that 3,500 years after its completion, you can stand on the top row and hear someone whisper at the per- - fonnance level below. The day before, we had started our five-day trip through the PelopOnnese (the southern \hand\ of Greece) at the site of Mycenae. This was the place thought to 11ave been the administrative center for the Mycenaean civilization that ruled the Aegean frOom aooo D 1,300 BC. The most impressive feature was the \Treasw·y of Atreus,\ the grande~ of all Tholos tombs. Tbls tomb, comparable only to a pyramid, was massive. Constrllcted of carefully cut and fitted chunks of rock weighing up tOt 120 tons, what was most inconceivable, was the fact that, in the words of After numerous trips wea~g my way through narrow busy streets to reach this odd, looming landmark, it came to me what's special about the physically Unattractive city of Athens. It IS attractive, not for its aesthetic appeal, but for its ageandltshistory.Asl wrotein, · my journal one day after viSiting the Acropolis, \~an· ding there this afternoon .peering out at the expansive city, I felt both significant and lnsignifica:nt. Significant because I was able to look at what seemed like all of creation, yet insignificant becauae of how much creation there is.u But that's the Whole ldea portrayed by modern Athens, one of contrasts, old vs. new, small vs. huge, &elect precision vs. mass intrusion. One weekend a bunch of us escaped this ''mass intrUSion\ to the fishing village of Korystos on the large island of Eubeoa, north of Attica. Another new and different ~atmosphere tQ take ln, we settled in on the beach our first night there with By NICOLAS BOCH France: Mitterrand was re-elected to a second term as France's president. The 71-years old socialist won a second seven-year term with. about 54% of the vote, to conservative Premier Chirac's. 46%. Chirac, wh~> conceded defeat shortly after thep>lls closed in the tun off election, is e'J!.pe<:ted tc submit the resi&ftation of hi.s gov~ent 'Within the next fe.w clays. Soviet Uni~n: Soviet P9lice disrupteg me~tings o( hundr~s of dissidenJs ,se~!c~g . to ch~enge the . cornn1lntist 'pattY;. At least 20 peciple were deta'ined~ dissidents in Moscow said. Orgimizers said the meetings . w~r~-~~1d JQ.f(?,Il}} .~.~.te~~ti~e,poli~q~,p.QlW.,,ca.lled the Dempcrat,kUilion, !llld to attempt tQ:·break: the K:ferrum's monopoly of publislling. . . . . - . Uruguay: Po~ John Paull! vis.ited .the. impoverished northeastern region and expressed strong support for labor unions and worker's right. ·.. , ··. . · Poland: Polish police· raidetl a Krakow steel mill and crushed a 10-day strike. Riot sq_uads smnrted the strlk:e- bound Nova Huta s~el mill, h11rled percussion grenadeS and 1'()1lnded up 38 leaders of the wo:r1c stopPage. France: Chirac indicated that his goveinmeritmay restore diplomatic ties with Iran as tlu-ee.Freu'dunen were freed in Lebancm by pro-Iranian Hdnappers. . · _ · . _ Israel: Israeli forces battled Moslem militiamen in southern Lebanon. As part of its two-day op~ration to search for P!Uestinian guerillas; th.e Israeli military shelled a Syrian held toWn and battled pro-Iranian Hezbollah guerillas deep in southern Lebanoot.. India: A children hospital collapsed in the northern state of Kashnmir, killing as many as 21 people, officials said. . I

. CONCORDIENSIS, ~May 12,' 1988 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ~ ' ·.!it - Experience ''the World: Be Part of International House .ByAll\m.ESIMON Intemati!)llSl Features· Editor The boar:din~ high school I attended, ElllOla Willard, had an extremely diverse student body. In a Jl()p1llation ·Of' 365, there were gi:i'Ls:lltom 18 foreign countries a11d several of my Close friendS. were front Saudi Arabia. Tile environment was quite open a:s i11dividuals were tolerant, making an effort .to understand th.ceir C'Ompanion's backgrounds~ customs . and ideals: I had, envisioned my coll~ge years as a time of further ctil1mral expansion; however; I w-as sadly disap· pointed fresbmall year_ to find .such a homogeneous campus atmosphere. Co-eds seemed afraid to be portrayed as behaving differently, and thus concealed 'Uitder a mask of fear the face of unconventiality. Therefore, last spring during lottery week,. I was overjoyed to be presented witb International House as a. d.ormitory option. Happily, .I qaV,e had cause to be extremely satisfied with my choice. Fall term I had the op- portunity to r10om with an ex- change student fro:!Jl. Yol'k, England, dttr)Dg which time I found myself regularily using such British expressions as \smarmy \brilliant ''pissed\ (drunk}, and describing .fo1>d as \lovely.\ Beneath the sllperficial level, the Englisll attitude toward education, polities anq social behavior, llave deeply in· fluenced my tlliriking, forcing one to re-evaluate indiginous American positions and opinions. Because Inoornational House only consi~ts of13 members, the friendshiJ>S. fo:rrned are strong and intense. Mter working hard • for the first 2 months to break through cultt~,rar barriers, .for e~ample, overcoming numerous differences in the meaning {)f · . friendship throughout the world, a feeling Qf unity has pervaded. I do not professtolive ina Utopia, for as in any group living together; we . have . had our share of disputes and misunderstandings, but rather I suggest . as applicable the notion of a United Nations environment, where each listens atteotiveLy as his neighbor speaks. In our lounge, easily accessible to each room and. decorated with posters and international decor, heated late night discussions frequently take place as we politely sip coffee OIJ such a typical topics as French politics, Italian style dating, the Chinese protest movement, etc .•. International House has also played a vital role in the In- ternational Student Union, as a forum .for .~he meetings, as a gathering place for foreign students on campus, and as a recruitment ground for active members. We have initiated and participated in numerous activities such as the apple pie baking fund raiser, building the Bringing the World to U, sponsoring speakers, the fashion show winter term, and ISU weekend. Through these efforts we bave improved our cooperation skills, and more importantly, gave to the Union college community new and interesting programs. Finally, as lottery time fast approaches I would like to . encourage anyone who is looking for an alternative to regular dorrilitory life or the fraternity/ sorority selection, seeking a more culturally open environment,. to. -seripusly consider International House as a possibility. :By LAURA CALVI 'Living in the International · fl()use is an experience that started for me littlemore than a year ago. As a freslpnan- I had lived len a d,orm, and had a good titne, but I felt it could be · possible to live and learn more ia a different environment. I tllerefore really welcomed the idea ofliving on a .floor with half foreign and half American st11dents. So, I went through an internew process and . a da. y ;before tbe Lottery, I learned I was going to be a part of the '\experiment.\ I met the other mernbers of the first In- ternational House at Union a . few times, and then we were all · . off tovacation. We aU started the year with a }()t of expectations and plenty of energy. We wanted, and still believe in the enrichment that any student gets from being exposed to diferent cultures. I tl!i:nk all the activities that we ()fgaiuzed, all tbe problems that we encountered, in a word, all tl1e fun we had, was mostly due to tile fact that we are such a · h:eter()geneous .group, still By NICOLAS BOCH Associate International Features E~tor This year was an experience that I will never forget. As living with any group, socially it ltad a strong impact on me. The Iatemational House also CJpened my life to new cultural lloriZons. Half of the members of tile House are American, and the other half includes people from various nationalities and clJltutes, The every day life is very different from the one I bad in a dorm last year. Here, there are always people in the Io1111ge, hanging out and talking., ;;=..;:;:::;;:;;;;;;;::::;;:;:;::::::;;;·;::;:.::;:;· :;::;:,;:;:·:;;;:.;:;;;:;· ~·~· ~;:::::=· ::==:=iil about the most diverse sub- ~·;:,;;('Q.ij~ftl~§;'\~~.:,:ljJ:It~~G~~~~~;;q¥\S.I~J.:IJ' •..•... ,: .. · .··.· ·• ~~~~u:::m inPa~:~ou T~~ •· ffr··:rf'····· ··:tto:nal=Relat16ns'·bt!Jb•W11rsptilisof''a':f¢.tindtable :· gathering of different cultures · als() encoura~es .s_ome loud International· Issue \ by Aime Simon _ In.ternational Features Editor II~»w do l'OU view the UN? Do you see any problems. witlt its structure? Alex Sllv.a-Sadder (90)_- The purpose of the UN .is to settle conflicts between. nations and promote world . peace. I think .the main problem with it is that nations are so concerned wi1h. their own interests that they do riot want the UN policing them., which: is what it would have to do to be effective. Jon C()hll (8!)) - In light of post World Wu I Europe, the UN is. definitely a necessary entity., · Unfortuliate:ly, it has often been used for political maneuvers, such as within. rpiddle eastern countries. The UN . should not•be llsedin bloc fashio~ but rather for wot:ld :Peace ana safety. · . Laura Weissbach (90) -The UN doesn't have any real power. Its member nations don't abide by the · body's dedsi()DS. when they disagree. · . . Susan Fitzi)atri~ (88) ~ Jert Reed (88) - We think that the UN is a good forum for airing differences and problems·between countries but is·not effective-in changing inequalities or s!Dl:vi:Dg unacceptable problems. For · example, .. tlae UN h,as liste<J the Pinqchet g()vemrnent in Chile at the t()p of .the list of most repressive • go'vemrnents; .bJtnochange h~ resul~ from lhat fact. · ToddKr~me!r (~) .. I feel that designing a perfectly fluent international mitigating or policing force would . · ·be impossible. The UN prpvides a_highly demanded service, but withoulmuch power. That is the largest . problem with tlti UN from my limited politicat view, the absence of decision eni()rcement on a global scale. : Mel Re1lcl8!rSCln (90) -The UN is ·an ineffective institiution, because it allows the most powerful countries to control- th~ pl'ocesses of. the system. Also the opposing· powers (Russia and the U.S.) are allowed to veto • each other, tli:us accomplishing nothing. · E.thao· StJarr (8$) .. The UN is an organization with good ideals, but it sho;uld play a larger role in the world atena, espt>pially in third world hotspots. The United S taies should increase its contributions to the UN and be more ac1ive.in the administration of UN assistance programs ... . . · FR.ENCH C'LUB el·ecUons and Movie Following;· RUE CASE-NEGRES (1984) Eozhan Paley Darlinglegitimus, · Garry Cadenat, Douta Seck The story of'a-gtaq.dmcther who sacrifices all so tltat a child can e$l&pe \the fate of most children liVing in Mar.t;i1Uque in the 30~s. · MONDAYS AT 8:00P.M. COl-LEGE CENTER MORII.E LOUNGE 406 .. . . ' .. . . animated by a .strong common interest. We learned,. and still do, that there are several dif- ferent and equally -efficient ways of. approaching a situation. The differences can be rewardable and are often . sources .of .good times, and serve to make us all close, I guess that is what made our float win the prize for most original at Homecoming. Put together in a night, the thing was remarkable, not because of its looks, but because of our performance in earning it. The whole house was present there anq had a g~eat time. We tried to share our energy and way , of having fun with everybody watching. Thinking again of this episode, many others come to my mind: orientation for the foreign students, the Thanksgiving dinner, the long discussions about politics and other issues, the apple pie .fund raiser, the Fashion show, the International Weekend, and tons of other little or big events. Even more essential to the International House are the small. everyday particulars that you learn just discussions. The ideas of a Chinese, an American or a Greek rarely are similar. One experiences a lot in the In- ternational House. Living in a group has its ups and downs. It requires of the individual a tolerance that he/she would not have to develop otherwise. During the course of this year social life in the House has had its good and · bad times. We started in the fall with the bUilding of a float, which involved everyone in the H~;mse. We had enl)ugh Em• thusiasm in what we were doing that we even carried our own float! During fall term, the House sponsored many ac- Uvities on campus. Winter term was for me and I think for many in the House the most challenging one. No one liked , by living with;people. So we get to talk on how people go to school in Europe and the USA, and how the food is in England, or how inexpensive lif.e is in China, how yo11 say things witb your hands in Italian, and bow you count ,in Chinese. Some good memorize;rs learned some words in all tbe languages now spoken in the International House (and tller-e are 9). Some Will start singing foreign songs, and a creative mind will learn dirty words in at least 4 languag-es. What we try to do here is tti experience the world and j usttlte fact that each of us carries in. him/herself a part of it make it easy for all of us to be aware and active in approaclling the world. Up to now it's been an amazing ex- perience and there is more to come. I kn()w m,y English is getting better (even if I'm learning a mixture of Boston, Albany, New ~•Joisy'' & Long Island accents). I'm improving in guessing French al'ld Ger- man ... My Chinoese is still under construction ... But I guess I have another year to improve my \Ni Hau.\ Ciao. the winter an!l tbe atmosphere became colder in the house. However, it. was the most in- teresting term. Now I un- derstand what living in a group and sharing a eommon interest means. With. the spring, crazy life came,back in the house. The International Weekend saw many of tbe House members involved ·in it. None of us will forget that Saturday night. It was a very special international party. Now as tile y:ear ends, new people are mterested in the House. Tlle International House will be on the second floor of Webster, and WI welcome 14 people. I think.the International House has a lot more to offer to the campus. a11d what we have now is the IJeginning of a venerablei11stitution. HOUSING 88/89 EXPERIENCE THE WORLD BE PART OF INTERNATIONAL HOUSE GET A TASTE OF IT A1' BBQ .... FREE FOOD ON LAWN 'IN FRONT OF W'EBSTER. SUNDAY, MAY 15 4 P.M. INFO MEETING FOR EVERYONE lNl'ERESTED FOLLOWING AT 7:00P.M. IN lNTL' HOUSE LOUNGE ,

Page 12 CONCORDIBNSIS, M11y 12, 1988 <!tDttnlrbirnsis ------Founded al Union College 1877------ The Nott's Safety Should Be Our First Priority \If my doctor ever tells me that I have terminal cancer, I'll fly my plane into that thing (the Nott Memorial).\ Whether said seriously or meant to be humorous, Vice President Maranville's addition (which he, in fact paraphrased from a Trustee) to the Open Foruin discussion proved to be insightful to those who ponder what goes on 'behind closed doors' at Union. What this statement reveals is that somewhere in the upper echelons of Union College, the Nott Memorial and its existence on the campus is treated as a hassle-dreaded to be dealt with .. It's a shame if this statement is representative of the College's view of the Nott; after all it is this building that probably gains Union the most recognition across the Western Hemisphere than any other of Union's assets. Frightfully enough, the actions that the Administration have taken over the past fifteen years seems to support this statement. The Mesick Report, aimed at r~porting on the condition of the building, was received at the College in 1973. Since then, the College has taken little, if no, action in using the report's suggestions (one of which was the immediate repair of the roof slates). _ Moreover, as pointed out during the Open Forum this past Tuesday, the Nott has become an extremely fire hazardous building, particularly with the College's theatre finding 'temporary' shelter there for more than twenty years. When will the College begin to take action with restoring the N ott Memorial? We can wait. But the building won't. Discussion over which is more accessible to funding: the extension of the library or the restoration of the Nott as well as discussion over the uses of the building is moot. First, action must be taken to put the building in a safe condition where plan~ for its practical use may then be examtned. The College, particularly the Administration, needs to push the notion that funding for the Nott is needed today. Push through the paperwork (the Restore the Nott Student Initiative has offered their help) and rescue the Nott from danger. now. International Students Not Accommodated The first thing that many people think of when you mention foreign students at Union is the International House. However, the International House is home to only thirteen students, and half of those are American. Union boasts over 100 foreign students. On a campus this size, that is quite a significant number. While the students themselves have been quite active in organizing (The International Student Union and The International House), the college does not seem to have found a way to deal with the students adequately. As LeeAnn Schmidt points out in her April 21 article, \Roughing It 'American Style','; these organizations are not able to provide the support needed for foreign students. Schmidt's article states that the need for a trained International Advisor has been expressed by students and faculty, and yet the college has not provided one. She calls I for a policy \which will determine what the students needs are and how they can best be fulfllled.\ As of now the .college has no clear policy or method for helping foreign students adapt to Union and maximize their experience here. We have a large foreign population to be proud of. It is disheartening to think that we are not as eager to help them acclimate as they are to learn and teach us about their backgrounds. While this may not be the case, action taken to correct existing inadequacies is the only way to prove it so. International students are in need of a more well defined policy and program, as well as personnel to run them. LETTERS \\ - Student Clarifies Article's Int~ntion To 1ihe Editor: I WQuld like to respond to Daniel Keniry's letter in last week's Concor:diensis entitled ''SPAA's views Incorrect and Unclear.\ In his letter, Keniry assllllled thafmy article in the pre-vious week's Concordiensis was \the first attempt that SPAA has made at addressing any issue.\ This was not the goal Qf my article. As pointed out,. the article was a feature, not a news item. It was intended to be, as Keniry put it, \a review of our fun-filled trip to Boston.\ It was not a statement issued by SPAA and it. was not an attempt to address SPAA's stand on any issues. It was an aceount of a convention and demonstration attended by some SP AA members, and was not intended to be anything mol'e than that. The Students for Political Awareness· and Activism, as. a new group -en campus, has officially co-sponsored only one event, the c~dle light vigil held on the anniversary of Martin Luther King;s aS$issination. As stated in the constitutien, S?AA's Jlurpose is: \1. To examine issues; international, dom~stic, and. within this college, which affect us as Union College students. 2. To bring education and awareness of these issues to tbe College Ccmrmunity and 3. To actively participate in making or changing .policies which we feel to be important with regard to these issues.'' As such, ·sPAA will plan educational forums on different issues and work to benefit causes which are felt to be important. . \SPAA\ did not demonstrate in Boston. Some members of the group did. The demonstration in which we participated was, to certain degree, \an excuse to go pu.blic and create controversy,\ as Keniry stated. T.he organb:ers of the demonstration mainly aimed to make· their movement visible, and to get the public thinking about cer- tain issues. If anyone wanted to know the opmtons of the students who attended the demonstration, there was. a table set up in Carnegie the following Friday expressly for that purpose. The sign at the table which said, ''S.PAA goes to Boston\ was incorrect and misleading and l am sorry if it caused any confusion. I want to thank .Mr. Keniry for pointing out the inaccuracy of tny article with reference to the National Security Agency (NSA). I certainly should have better researched .the NSA before mentioning it iii · my article. The mistake, however, was wholly mine and not SPAA's. The feature article which I wrote was. jum; that, and not meant to he interpreted as a statement being made by SPAA. Again, I apologize for any confusion caused by my article and for my inaccuracy regarding the NSA. Respectfully, Denise Feinsod '89 Bronner House Petition Denied To the Editor: 'roday we were informed that our petition for Bronner House w~s denied. It was e:xplained to us by the Dean of Residence life that the college decided to give the opportWlity to certain otber groups to have the ad- vantage of living in this com· mUJJal enV'ironment. Having been the sole group to petition for Bronner House several weeks ago, . we were led to believe that most likely we would have been granted the privilege to reside there for the academic year of 1988-1989. Dllting this time interval, we have lost opportunities to sign leases for off-campus housing. As members of the Class of 1989, under -the new lottery system we are only left with the option of sillgles in North College and Richmond College and with the remote possibility of obtaining singles in Fox House or Da-vidson House. It is our colltEntion that the denial of our petition is unfair for the follcwing reasons: · 1. Our options for on-campus ho11sing are limited and possibly non-existent. For the jWliors .in ow· group the op- po~tunities are even more limited. 2. The purpose of giving the other group Bronner House is to integratethem into campus life. However, this purpose is defeated because giving them Br()!lDer House is not a viable means of integration; it onJy serves to isolate them the same way they were isolated in Webster House. 3. We .followed the formal procedure for obtaining a co-op. Does it not follow that every gr()U.p desiring communal hollSing should be obliged to foll()W the same pro<:edure? 4. We were infonned that this group specifically requested Smith House, not Bronner Ho'USe. Residence Life judged Br()llner House to be less popular than Smith House partially because they only received one petition for Brvnner House this year. This does not reflect a lack of J)(lplllarity; rather it shows that a strong interest by one group deterred other groups from submitting proposalS. S. • .At least one of the members of the Student Affairs CoJ.Tho mittee, who made recom· mendations to Residence Life regarding co-op housing, is cllr'rently petitioning for Smith H()uSe. The S.A.C. lacked representation of Bronner HollSe applicants; therefore, the decision may have been biased towards keeping Smith Ho11se as a co-op. 6.We were offered a section of Webster Ho\!.Se as a consolation. H()w can it be justified to move the other group from what they considered an undesirable location into Bronner Bouse, and to offer our equally un~ desirable space in Webster House while depriving us residence in Bronner House? 7. Our petition is comprised of a unique group of Individuals who have all been active in campus life; therefore, we hope to obtain centrally located housing which would enable us to further contribute to campus life. 8. The new lottery system was annoW1ced one year prior to implementation. Should not plans for Bronner House also be annoW1ced one year prior to implementation so as not to disrupt students' plans for housing? Taking into consideration all of the above reasons, we feel that is only fair that the decision to no longer keep Bronner House as a co·op is reYersed. Sincerely •. -r Elizabeth C. Wallach Mira L. Keller Cynthia G. Cooney T .\'l s' r, fl 1! d h r h c sl tl h tJ tl S1 n y tl sl e a 'I

Pa.ge 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 12, 1988 Cllllltfllrbirttsis -------Founded at llniQn College 1877 ------- The Nott's Safety Should Be Our First Priority \If my doctor ever tells me that I have terminal cancer, I'll fly my plane into that thing (the Nott Memorial).\ Whether said seriously or meant to be humorous, Vice President Maranville's addition (which he, in fact paraphrased from a Trustee) to the Open Forum discussion proved to be insightful to those who ponder what goes on 'behind closed doors' at Union. What this statement reveals is that somewhere in the upper echelons of Union College, the Nott Memorial and its existence on the campus is treated as a hassle-dreaded to be dealt with. It's a shame if this statement is representative of the College's view of the Nott; after all it is this building that probably gains Union the most recognition across the Western Hemisphere than any other of Union's assets. Frightfully enough, the actions that the Administration have taken over the past fifteen years seems to support this statement. The Mesick Report, aimed at reporting on the condition of the building, was received at the College in 1973. Since then, the College has taken little, if no, action in using the report's suggestions (one of which was the immediate repair of the roof slates). Moreover, as pointed out during the Open Forum this past Tuesday, the Nott has become an extremely fire hazardous building, particularly with the College's theatre finding 'temporary' shelter there for more than twenty years. When will the College begin to take action wi1h restoring the Nott Memorial? We can wait. But the building won't. Discussion over which is more accessible to funding: the extension of the library or the restoration of the Nott as well as discussion over the uses of the building is moot. First, action must be taken to put the building in a safe condition where plans for its practical u3e may then be examined. The College, particularly the Administration, needs to push the notion that funding for the Nott is needed today. Push through the paperwork (the Restore the Nott Student Initiative hns offered their help) and rescue the Nott from danger, now. International Students Not Acco1nmodated The first thing that many people think of when you mention foreign students at Union is the International House. However, the International House is home to only thirteen students, and half of those are American. Union boasts over 100 foreign students. On a campus this size, that is quite a significant number. While the students themselves have been quite active in organizing (The International Student Union and The International House), the college does not seem to have found a way to deal with the students adequately. As LeeAnn Schmidt points out in her April 21 article, \Roughing It 'American Style',\ these organizations are not able to provide the support needed for foreigN students. Schmidt's article states that the need for a trained International Advisor has been expressed by students and faculty, and yet the college has not provided one. She calls !for a policy \which will determine what tile students needs are and how they can best be fulfilled.'\ As of now the college has no clear policy or method for helping foreign students adapt to Union and maximize their experience here. We have a large foreign population to be proud of. It is disheartening to think that we are not as eager to help them acclimate as they are to learn and teach us about their backgrounds. While this may not be the case, action taken to correct existing inadequacies is the only way to prove it so. International students are in need of a more well defined policy and program, as well as personnel to run them. LETTERS Student Clarifies Article's Intention To the Editor: I would like ta respond to Daniel Keniry's letter in last week's Concordiensis entitled \SPAA's views Incorrect and Unclear.\ In his letter, Keniry assumed that- my article in the previous week's Concordiensis was \the first attempt that SP AA has made at addressing any issue.\ This was not the goal of my article. As pointed out, the article was a feature, not a news item. It was intended to be, as Keniry put it, \a review of our fun-filled trip to Boston.\ It was not a statement issued by SP AA and it was not an attempt to address SPAA' s stand on any issues. It was an account of a convention aad demonstration attended by some SP AA members, and was not intended to be anything more than that. The Students for Political Awareness anci Activism, as a new group on campus, has officially co-sponsored only one event, the candle light vigil held oR the anniversary of Martin Luther King's assissination. As stated in the constitution, SPAA's purpose is: \1. To examine issues; international, domestic, and within this college, which affect us as Union College students. 2. To bring education and awareness of these issues to the College Community and 3. To actively participate in making or changing policies which we feel to be important with regard to these issues.\ As such, SP AA will plan. educational forums on different issues and work to benefit causes which are felt to be important. \SPAA\ did not demonstrate in Boston. Some members of the group did. The dem.onstration in which we participated was, to certain degree, ''an excuse to go public and create controversy,\ as Keniry stated. T.he organizers of the demonstration mainly aimed t() make their movement visible, and to get the public thinking about cer- tain issues. If anyone wanted to know the ap1n1ons of the students who attended the demonstration, there was a table set up in Carnegie the fotloWing Frida:y ell:pressly for that purpose. The sign at the table which said, \SPAA gees to Boston'' was incorrect and misleading and I am sorry if it caused any confusion. I want to thank Mr. Keniry for ,pointing out the inaccuracy of my article with reference to the National Secur.ity Agency (NSA). I certainly should have better researched the NSA before mentioning it in my article. The mistake, however, was wholly mine and not SPAA's. The feature article which I wrote was just that, and not meant to be interpreted as a statement being made by SPAA. Again, I apologize for any confusion caused by my article and for my inaccuracy regarding the NSA. Respectfully, Denise Feinsod '89 Bronner House Petition Denied To the Editor: Today we were informed that our petition for Bronner House was denied. It was explained to us by the Dean of Residence Life that the college decided to give the opportunity to certain other groups to have the ad- vantage of living in this com- munal environment. Having been the sole group to petition for Bronner House several weeks ago, we were led to believe that most likely we would have been granted the privilege to reside there for the academic year of 1988-1989. During this time interval, we have lost opportunities to sign leases for off-campus housing. As members of the Class of 1989, under -the new lottery system we are only left with the option of singles in North College and Richmond College and with the remote possibility of obtaining singles in Fox House or Davidson House. It is our contention that the denial of our petition is unfair for the following reasons: 1. Our options for on-campus housing are limited and possibly non-existent. For the juniors in our group the op- portunities are even more limited. 2. The purpose of giving the other group Bronner House is to integrate them into campus life. However, this purpose is defeated because giving them Bronner House is not a viable means of integration; it only serves to isolate them the same way they were isolated in Webster House. 3. We followed the formal procedure for obtaining a co-op. Does it not follow that every group desiring communal housing should be obliged to follow the same procedure? 4. We were infonned that this group specifically requested Smith House, not Bronner House. Residence Life judged Bronner House to be less popular than Smith House partially because they only received one petition for Bronner House this year. This does not reflect a lack of popularity; rather it shows that a strong interest by one group deterred other groups from submitting proposals. 5. At least one of the members of the Student Affairs Com- mittee, who made recom- mendations to Residence Life regarding co-op housing, is currently petitioning for Smith House. The S.A.C. lacked representation of Bronner House applicants; therefore, the decision may have been biased towards keeping Smith House as a co-op. 6. We were offered a section of Webster House as a consolation. How can it be justified to move the other group from what they considered an undesirable location into Bronner House, and to offer our equally un- desirable space in Webster House while depriving us residence in Bronner House? 7. Our petition is comprised of a unique group of individuals who have all been active in campus life; therefore, we hope to obtain centraUy located housing which would enable us to further contribute to campus life. 8. The new lottery system was announced one year prior to implementation. Should not plans for BronnEr House also be announced one year prior to implementation so as not to disrupt students' plans for housing? Taking into consideration all of the above reasons, we feel that is only fair that the decision to no longer keep Bronner House as a co-op is reversed. Sincerely, Elizabeth C. Wallach Mira L. Keller Cynthia G. Cooney ~·· .. ·vtrasts ~ 0 _0 ~l.'t.l L '~-\ EdilQrs#:in-Chlef ,,~,,,.,,., Christin~ Hong~ Fiona Shukrl. News Editors Elise Foody, Daniel Ke-niry. R. Reed WJ:Udden FeatUreS Editors Mark Haught6n, S\usan Shaffer Asoociate R!.atures Editor Sitzanm} Shaker International Fearures Editors Aime Simon, Gary Stein.ba'!Wl Associate llitemational Feat'IJJ:'$ Editors. Nicolas B<k;h~ Jeanne Dal~y Co:mmentary Page Editors Lori Leon. Jason Me~h:nick Associate COfl'll'IU}ntru.y Page Editor . Deb.ra It Honig Arts Editors Katie Boyd, Jan Goldstein, J.itn. MacLal.lgblin Science Editor . Anthony Vr-ondissis Campus Pa,ge Editors Lisa. MarziUi, Kelley Park Sports Editots Andrew Millet, Da-ve Morrison Photography Editor . SusanKmch Advertising l!ditors . Li$a BroWE,. Lori Kaplan Associate Adverdsing Editors Leslie Mom$, Lit Perkowski, Busin~ss Managers Subscriptions Managers Honor-ary Faculty Advisor - Beth Tur.ney Beth Goodsnrith. R~bin Jacobson Brad Mondsehcin, 1C4lren Simc-n.s C. Wnliam Huntley ST AFJ1'~ Elizabeth Berliner, Anthiklia Carassavas, Lis.a Cherande, Alan DeSa1vio, Cad Friedrich, Alex Gardner, Greg Q('Jetz, Dave Gulliver, Pamela Haber, Bruce Hay, Jr., Marty Htlck. Attdt¢w Herschaft, Aa:ton llan, LeAta Jacl.alon, Stephanie Jaryna,_ Suzanne Judsill1., Becky Koopman. Howie Lazar, Chad l...evin. Melissa Levine, Jim Manley, Virginie Mello, John Mt~rgan, Tom Muztinegtll. Tracey Pryluck, Bill Robbins, LeeAnn Schmidt, Tina 'Sci<Jcchetti, Cara 'f'aback, ConradTatge, Tim Wymes .. PHOTOGRAPH\tRS: Todd Coe(ltikis,. Richard Crocker. Amy Dillenback, Frank Fitzgerald, Amy Goldstein, Jenny <lrm1dwein, St.an Kitzinger. Gary Lambert,. Kris Lynclt, Kate Nunan. - . ADVERTISING STAFF: Michelle Alfano, Robia Baskin, Jill Deutsch, Lauren Feuerman. Kathy Green~ Dina Ooli$; Utbt>Leung, MartinaMQQre, · ~ONC()R;DtiNSlS is ~~blished .every 1'bursday by the· student bodynf Unitiit College~ Sehenect.a:dy~ New Yur1c 1!~8; 'Pfiblidati6ns Wj se re fo A( dil h~ re h:J Cl stl th h~ tr1 th so ne ye th stl e11 ag lD< le' stl wl R1 ne Uil all b~ OV cb M n~ W( pe pe Fl W( to th: lh ar ra Tc re F< I c no Of th Wl TI th so co Oll G~ th

Page 13 . . . .------ . ~ . __.....,_...__. ~ LETTERS A Word On At:Wareness and Activism Prize Money Discriminates To the Editor: The often invoked \rap\ that · we here at Union are apathetic seems to be changing. The recently formed club, Students for Political Awareness and Activism, or SP M is an in- dication of this change. Students throughout the world have always been a force to be reckoned with. What has · happened to this force at Union? Can it be said that Union students are more interested in the pursuit of wealth and ' happiness than in what is transpiring around them? Sadly this has been the case for quite some time. However, this needn't continue. After eight years of Reanesque image and the not~so-active seventies, students seem to be ready to empower themselves once again. · Awareness ofthe issues on the local. national and intemationa.l level is a crucial aspect of student empowerment. Know what is happening in the world. Read the paper, watch the news, get the facts. However, unless we do more than chat about current events over a bagel and cream cbeese (an overpriced bagel and cream cheese I might add) m Carnegie Mall, then our awareness is for naught. Let~s look at the other '!A\ word, activism: a word that people associate with. 1960's peace movement, Civil Rights, Flower Power and ·hippies, a word that students today seem to have no knowledge of. Why is thisso? Granted, we are not living in the '60's, our friends aren't dying in VietNam and racial discrimination is less apparent, but are the issues of 1 the 1980's really that much different from.thoseofthe '60's? The · US is still fighting ''the spread of conm1Ul1i8m!' in third world countries through covert, overt and. downright illegal action, and .racial diserimination c.ontinues in force \protected\ by :Reagan and company. So what's a · person to do? You know the facts; now it's time to· take action. For e~ample, ~am aware, as a former CIA director, Admiral Turner called them in his speech last FridaY n.ight, that the Contras are terrorists~ a band of mercenaries funded by the CIA. I am aware th!lt our illustrio11sleader Ronald Wilson R:e.agan is obsessed with top- pling the freely elected government of Nicat\agua (perhaps on the advice of Nancy's astrologist). Be that as it inay. What can a Union College student, such as myself, do? I can discuss and hash and rehash, but I've got to do _ somethi.og. So :[ write my congressman and serrators expressing my disapproval. Now what~ A: I get frustrated and think that I'm the only one who feels the way I DO? orB: I go to a SPAA meeting where I find out. that contrary to I»Pular opinion, or not so popular opinion; i.e.,that ofMr.Keniry, SP AA members don't have horns and tails. It seems that · they're just people who are aware of issues, but have taken their awareness beyond the overpriced bagel-cream cheese in Carnegie Mall stage. They're . organizing and participating in· events that bring about concrete change. Voter Turn-Out Criticized To the Editor: I am quite upset about the results of this week's Student Forum elections. I'm upsetthat ~didn't win, of course, but that's not why I'm writing this letter. Of the roughly 2,000 students on this campus, only 438 decided it was worth their effort to vote. That's pathetic. Certainly more than one in four students has at some time found something to complain about. Not more than one .in .four people has found Gel-Time objectionable? Less than one in four people cares who the Student Forum President is? I guess not. To those of you who didn't vote and who at some time m the future find something here at Union that pisses· you off, keep your opinion to yourself. You had the chance to do SQmething about who makes the· decisions that affect your life. You decided not to voice. that opinion. Don't bother voicing your comjllaints. Josh Markfield Former Candidate for Junior Trustee ATIENTION SENIORS The four \rain 1ickets\ for commencement exerciseswi'll be issued as follows: College Center Room 409 Thursday, May 19th 10:00 - 1·2:00 am & 1:,30-3:30 pm You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you would like.Students who do not ·pick up their tickets at tbis time may lose thelr opportunity for e)(tra tick~ts. As soon as the total number of available· seats has been determined, extra tickets will be propo.rtiioned and sent to the mail boxes of those students who have requested them. Please take a few minutes to compTijt~ .. the Senior Exit Survey before or after picking up 'y6ut t1~.kets. Thank you. , .Qffice of the Registrar. One such event that SP AA is organizing is Latin America Day, set for iJ:'h'ursday, May 26. The· day's agenda includes a - teach-in on Latin America, J)()litical theater, Slide shows, a panel discus~ion and a benefit concert in the .Achilles Rink that evening. Tl).e ,proceeds of the day will go t() tl:le Peace Convoy, a group of Vietnam vets and other \activists\ who will be driving a car~van of trucks With humanitarian. ~id, such as food, Clothing, ~edicine, etc. to Managua, Nicaragua. The humanitariat~ aid will benefit the people o·f Nicaragua. Another evelit planned for the fall is a W()rkshop on racism featuring the nationally ac- claimed slid~ show, American Pictures. 'Ibis, my friends, is activism. It is important to know that SP AA is open to everyone- regardless of political ideology, and anyone ean pose an idea for an event. F{)t\ ex:ampl~, Latin America Da:y started out as an. idea, a vote was taken and the idea passed, a committee was then formed to organize the event. The ~ame process oc- curred with American Pictures. other · ideas that have been discussed for- fnture action deal with envirolllilental issues, the homeless, ibe Israeli-Arab conflict, tuitioll increases, etc. Any idea ca:n be presented-if accepted by a 2-3 vote then a committee f()l'ID.S and the action starts. Do yCJu dare reach the activism stage? If you are willing to tak:e action then come to a .SP AA meeting on Wed- nesday nights at 9 pm in the Mall's Atrium.. Peace and ,Love,.; Gene Bolger '88 J;» .S. All are C()tdially invited to · participate iJt Latin America Day on May 26. If you want more information please call 374-7504. To the Editor: Last week many of us ·on campUs received a notice about a racquetball tournament for men and women. The event, sponsored by Phi Sigma Kappa, wotild help raise money to benefit those with juvenile diabetes. 'That money would ·come from a $5 donation by each of the players; thel\e would be prizes, too. Prizes of $75 for the male winner and $25 for the sinner of the women's tour- nament. Isn't that thoughtful of the organizers to give women here at Union an opportWiity to prove themselves? We Sure are lucky people. And maybe, .if we work hard enough, sometime we can hope for $75 too. In the meantime, we are happy for anything. Well, just about. Thanks for the memory, BrinQuell Female Feels Cheated To the Editor: Last week I received in my box a notice .from Sigma Kappa inviting me to join their RaquetbaU tournament. Being a raquetball lover l·was very excited until I saw the prize money. Men can win $'75.00 while ·women can only win $25.00 for the same donated entry .fee of $5.00. I was very insulted by this and have spoken with other women who feel the same way. This is supposed to be a charitable fun activity and I don't mean to turn it into a discrimination case, but I don't understand why both winners do not receive the same amount of prize money. Larisss Lucas, '91 Play Leaves Important Impression To the Editor: Last Friday night I had the pleasure of seeing what was referred to as a· 'work-in- progress' production of Eugene O'Neill's \All God's Chillun Got Wings.\ What I saw was an excellent drama that took full· advantage of the talents of its . players its director Michelle Maratto '89, and everyone in- volved. The aspect tllat im- pressed me the most, however, was that this play dared to be controversial and it dared to end without a happy; st()rybook ending.. The contEovel\sy in- volves an interracial relationship, but it was treated not only as a racial issue but as an issue of humanity. I have seen this kind of courage all too rarely during my four years at Union, and it was a refreshing and enlightening change. \All God's Chillun\ was very ef-· fective and thought-provoking, which is a credit to those who obviously put a great deal of time and devQtion into this prodUction. If you missed it during Parent's Weekend, don't despair. \All God's Chillun Got . Wings\ will be shown in the Nott Memorial, May 18th-21st. Sincerely, Judy Price '88 Professor Sells Out Fraternity Dear Editor: us. The administrative division With the aid of Dean Marnmola, of the school wanted this AEPI took every necessary b 'ldin f ff d In h f f · th. step, as. well as many extras· m· w g or 0 ICe space an · t e pas~ · ew years, e would not relent. Thus, the very American edtJcation system has order to insure the procllrement institution to which we pay come under fire. Student's of the house for fraternity money would have no part in needs have cllanged drastically residence. After meeting with helping us, and instead will as the current generatiQn city offidgls1 it was determined purchase the only chance we begins to caL\ry the label of the that due to its size and location, havefor a fraternity house from ''me generati~n.\. The students this was the only viable Location beneath our feet. · of today are self-centered and for a fraternity house in the . tl bo t d .:union College area. Throughout During this process, a source care grea Y 'a u money an of the · ''me\ in the \me their individual careers. Today, this time, Professor Fairchild generation\ has become critics are p(}:inting their fingel\s appeared to be enthused and at America''s colleges ann supportive, apparently op- evident. A college, whose goal is universities, blaming the timistic about the future sale of to direct the thoughts of its American institutions for the his house. stboudetn~ts, is mf· f?re conernthed dd h · t d t t The next ·step whi\ch.Fali'· child a u 1 sown o 1ce space an su en c 8Ilge m s u en a - h 11 b · f f titudes. took forces one to questi()n his t e we • emg 0 a group 0 Until now., I thought this personal morality and people who pay for its very · be ~if· ct. f J'udgment. M. uch to the surprt'se existence- a self-centered act not10n to · . .an au. a o a d . 1 d t . and ·di'smay of AEPI, t'ts by any definition. Furthermore, · 1 s p a c e g e.n era 1 o n f h h uld · 'f · 't · rt la.wyers, and. ·Fair' c·hi'ld.'·s own 8 pro essor w o s · o unpart magm ymg r s ·Own unpo ance. kn 1 d d · However, recent dealings with real estate agent, Fairclilld had owe ge an experience to h . ll ·h 1 d secret·ly entered negott'att'ons his students instead is deceitful t · IS co ege · ave revea e · a d · 1 din I h' 'bl f th ·t· ' WI'th .th·e· school for the· pur·chase an mls ea g. s t IS the type poss1 e solll\ee or e cr1 1c s f 1 d · h h Tf · b d t~... t o·f· the ho .. .,.e ·behm·. d everv. one's 0 rea e ucat10n t at we ave claim. ~. ·lt cart .· e accepte ua ...,. \ u · · If h' · · back· . It was ·not until AEPI come to mon to rece1ve? t IS the · current generatiOn 1s · · 1 f · · 11 ct . 1 lf' h th th subnu· 'tted· \' very gene~ous· b1'd 18 typlca 0 the Amencan coeLVeYSEIS, en e ... •· 1 · d · finger may have peen pointed on the house that it was co leglate system an Its justly at the eolleges. discovered that Fairchild had members, then a good portion of Jn order t() understand the been dealing. in bad faith and the self-centered nature that reason for my reversal in at- had .misled ahnost everyone. today's generation stands ac- . d th t · h' h A.fter dete......... m'. m' g that Unt'an· cused of can be attributed to the tltu e, . e ·e'VEn S W lC ·COID· u.o.• • • Wh posed by tleBlings with the College itself was our only umverslty system. ether or school must be clarified. The competition and thus o11r sole not this is typical behavior, and Alpha Epsi}()] Pi Fraternity of remaining roadblock we I hope not, this incident remains which I am a member, had been thought it best to discuss the a sad indictment of the Union negotiating for a long time with situation with President Morris. College system, where a group Professor 'William W. Fairchild ln a long meeting full of of students may be crushed by of the Unlo!l College Math rhetoric, President Morris the uncaring wheels of an ad- Department, forjh~purchase of assured us that there was ministrative bureaucracy. his house 011 UnJon Avenue. nothing he could do to appease Jeffrey L. Rockmore '88 11te Followl11g Two Exams Were Omitted From the Final Ex:am Schedule Due to Late Submiulon NONDAY, JUNE 6-8:30-10:30 AM soc 157 - Work, Occupations ~ The Pr<~fessions- D. Walczak- SSCI 014 'TUESDAY, JUNE 7-'2:00 -4:00PM ~ soC 10-1 -lntrot:tuction to Sociology- D. Walczak-: HlJMN 115 16

CONCORDIENSIS, May 12, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS A Word On Awareness and Activism Prize Money Discriminates Te the Editor: The often invoked \rap\ that we here at UnioR are apathetic seems to be changing. The recently farmed club, Students for Political Awareness and Activism, or SPAA is an in- dicatioa .of this change. Students throughout the world have aiways been a force to be reckoned with. What has happened to this force at Union? Can it be said that Union students are more interested in the pursuit of wealth and happiness than in what is transpiring aroURd them? Sadly this has been the case for quite some time. However, this needn't continue. After eight years of Reanesque image and the not-so-active seventies, students seem to be ready to empower themselves once again. Awareness of the issues on the local, national and international level is a crucial aspect of student empowerment. Know what is happening in the world. Read the paper, watch the news, get the facts. However, URless we do more than chat about current events over a bagel and cream cheese (an overpriced bagel and cream cheese I might add) in Carnegie Mall, then our awareness is for naught. Let's look at the other \A\ word, activism: a word that people associate with 1960's peace movement, Civil Rights, Flower Power and hippies, a word that students today seem to have no knowledge of. Why is this so? Granted, we are not living in the '60's, our friends aren't dying in VietNam and racial discrimination is less apparent, but are the issues of the 1980's really that much different from those of the '60's? The US is still fighting \the spread of communism\ in third world coURtries through covert, overt and downright illegal action, and racial discrimination continues in force ''protected\ by Reagan and company. So what's a person to do? You know the facts; now It's time to take action. For example, I am aware, as a former CIA director, Admiral Turner called them in his speech last Friday night, that the Contras are terrorists, a band of mercenaries funded by the CIA. I am aware that our illustrious leader Ronald Wilson Reagan is obsessed with top- pling the freely elected government of Nicaragua (perhaps on the advice of Nancy's astrologist). Be that as it may. What can a Union College student, such as myself, do? I can discuss aHd hash and rehash, but I've got to do something. So I write my congressman and senators expressing my disapproval. Now what? A: I get frustrated and think that I'm the only one who feels the way I DO? orB: I go to a SP AA meeting where I find out that contrary to popular opinion, er not so popular opinion; i.e., that of Mr. Keniry, SPAA members don't have horns and tails. It seems that · they're just people who are aware of issues, but have taken their awareness beyond the overpriced bagel-cream cheese in Carnegie Man stage. They're . organizing and participating in·· events that bring about concrete change. Voter Turn-Out Criticized To the Editor: I am quite upset about the results of this week's Student Forum elections. I'm upset that I didn't win, of course, but that's net why I'm writing this letter. Of the roughly 2,000 students on this campus, only 438 decided it was worth their effort to vote. That's pathetic. Certainly more than one in four students has at some time found something to complain about. Not more than one in four people has found Gel-Time objectionable? Less than one in four people cares who the Student Forum President is? I guess not. To those of you who didn't vote and who at some time in the future find something here at Union that pisses you off, keep your opinion to yourself. You had the chance to do something about who makes the decisions that affect your life. You decided not to voice that opinion. Don't bother voicing your complaints. Josh Markfield Former Candidate for JW1ior Trustee ATTENTION SENIORS The four \rain tickets\ for commencement exercises will be issued as follows: College Center Room 409 Thursday, May 19th 10:00 .. 12:00 am & 1:30 -3:30pm You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you would like.Students who do not pick up their tickets at this time may lose their opportunity for extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats has been determined, extra tickets will be proportiioned and sent to the mail boxes of those students who have requested them. Please take a few minutes to complete the Senior Exit Survey before or after picking up your tickets. Thank you. Office of the Registrar. To the Editor: Last week many of us on campus received a notice about a racquetball tournament for men and women. The event, sponsored by Phi Sigma Kappa, would help raise money to benefit those with juvenile diabetes. That money would come from a $5 donation by each of the players; there would be prizes, too. Prizes of $75 for the male winner and $25 for the sinner of the women's tour- nament. Isn't that thoughtful of the organizers to give women here at Union an opportunity to prove themselves? We sure are 1ucky people. And maybe, if we work hard enough, sometime we can hape for $75 too. In the meaRtime, we are happy far anything. Well, just about. Thanks for the memory, Brin Quell One such event that SP AA is organizing is Latin America Day, set for Thursday, May 26. The day's agenda includes a teach .. in on Latin America, political theater, slide shows, a panel discussion and a be11efit concert in the Achi~les Rink that evening. The proceeds of the day will goto the Peace Convoy, a group of Vietnam vets and other i•activists\ who will be drivin.g a caravan of trucks with hw:nanitarian aid, such as food, clothing, medicine, etc. to Managua, Nicaragua. The hlllilanitarian aid wiU benefit the people of Nicaragua. Another event planned for the fall is a workshop on racism featuring the nationally ac- claimed slide show, American Pictures. This, my friends, is activism. Female Feels Cheated To the Editor: Last week I received in my box a notice from Sigma Kappa inviting me to join their Raquetball tournament. Being a raquetball lover I was very excited Wltil I saw the prize money. Men can win $75.00 while women can only win $25.00 for the same donated entry fee of $5.00. I was very insulted by this and have spoken with other women who feel the same way. This is supposed to be a charitable fun activity and I don't mean te turn it into a discrimination case, but I don't understand why both winners do not receive the same amount of prize money. Larisss Lucas, '91 It is important to know that SP AA is open to everyone- regardless of political ideolegy, and anyone can pose an idea for an event. For example, Latin America Day started out as an idea, a vote was taken and the idea passed, a committee was then formed to organize the event. The same process oc- curred '\lvith American Pictures. Other ideas that have been discussed for future action deal with environmental issues, the homeless, the Israeli-Arab conflict, tuition increases, etc. Any idea can be presented-if accepted by a 2-3 vote then a committee forms and the action starts. Do you dare reach the activism stage? If you are willing to take action then come to a SPAA meeting on Wed- nesday nights at 9 pm in the Mall's Atrium. Play Leaves Important Impression Peace and Love, Gene Bolger '88 P.S. All are cordially invited to participate in Latin America Day on May 26. If you want more information please call 374·7504. To the Editor: Last Friday night I had the pleasure of seeing what was referred to as a 'work-in- progress' production of Eugene O'Neill's \All God's Chillun Got Wing_s.'' What I saw was an excellent drama that took full advantage of the talents of its players its director Michelle Maratto '89, and everyone in- volved. The aspect that im- pressed me the most, however, was that this play dared to be controversial and it dared to end without a happy, storybook ending. The controversy in- volves an interracial relationship, but it was treated not only as a racial issue but as an issue of humanity. I have seen this kind of courage all teo rarely during my four years at Union, and it was a refreshing and enlightening change. \All God's ChillWl\ was very ef .. fective and thought-provoking, which is a credit to those who obviously put a great deal of time and devotion into this production. If you missed it during Parent's Weekend, don't despair. \All God's ChillW1 Got Wings\ will be shown in the Nott Memorial, May 18th-21st. Sincerely, Judy Price '88 Professor Sells Out Fraternity Dear Editor: us. The administrative division With the aid of Dean Mammola, of the school wanted this AEPI took every necessary b f ff d In h st f tt Step, as Well as many extra s m· uilding or o ICe space an t · e pa ew years, 1e would not relent. Thus, the very American ed11cation system has order to msure the procurement institution to which we pay come under fire. Student's of the house for fraternity money would have no part in needs have changed drastically residence. After meeting with helping us, and instead will as the current generation city officials, it was determined purchase the only chance we begins to carry the label of the that due to its size and location, have for a fraternity house from \me generation.\ The students this was the only viable location beneath our feet. of today are self-centered and for a fraternity hou3e in the tl bo t d . Union College area. Throughout During this process, a source care grea Y a u money an of the \me\ in the \me their individual careers. Today, this time, Professor Fairchild critics are pointing theirfinger:s appeared to be enthused and generation\ has become at America's colleges and supportive, apparently op- evident. A college, whose goal is universities, blaming the timistic about the future sale of to direct the thoughts of its American institutions for the his house. students, is more conerned sudden change in student at· The next step which Fairchild about its own office space than titudes. took forces one to question his the well-being of a group of Until now, I thought this personal morality and people who pay for its very notion to be an artifact of a judgment. Much to the surprise existence- a self-centered act d · 1 d t · and dr'smay of AEPI, I'ts by any definition. Furthermore, rsp ace genera Ion f uld \f · 't · rt lawyers, and Farr· child's own a pro essor who sho impart magm ymg 1 s own unpo ance. kn 1 d d · t d I . \th real estate agent, Farr· child had ow e ge an experience to However, recen ea mgs w1 · d · d · d f this college have revealed a secretly entered negotiations hls stu ents mstea IS eceit ul possible source for the critic's with the school for the purchase and misleading. Is this the type · If· b d h t of the house behm' d everyone's of real education that we have clarrn. 1t can e accepte t a · f · · back. It was not Wltr\l AEPI come to Union to receive? I this the current generatiOn 1s collectively selfish, then the submitted a very generous bid is typical of the American finger may have been pointed on the house that it was collegiate system and its justly at the colleges. discovered that Fairchild had members, then a good portion of In order to understand the been dealing in bad faith and the self-centered nattJ.rc that reason for my reversal in at- had misled almost everyone. today's generation stands ac- . d h t h. h After determm· ·m· g that Un1\on cused of can be attributed to the btu e, t. e even s w 1c com- posed by dealings with the College itself was our only Wliversity system. Whether or school must be clarified. The competition and thus our sole not this is typical behavior, and Alpha Epsilon Pi Fraternity of remaining roadblock we I hope not, this incident remains which I am a member, had been thought it best to discuss the a sad indictment of the Union negotiating for a long time with situation with President Morris. College system, where a group Professor William W. Fairchild In a long meeting full of of students may be crushed by of the Union College Math rhetoric, President Morris the uncaring wheels of an ad- Department, for the purchase of assured us that there was ministrative bureaucracy. his house on Union Avenue. nothing he could do to appease Jeffrey L. Rockmore '88 The Following Two Exams Were Omitted From tile Final Exam Scliedule Due to late Submissil)_n MONDAY, JUNE 6- 8:3()-1 0:30AM SOC 157 -Work, Occupations & The Professions- D. Walczak- SSCI 014 TUESDAY, JUNE 7-2:00 -4:00 PM soc 10-1 ·Introduction to Sociology- D. Walczak- HUMN 115 Jln

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, May 12, 191J8 . i c.astello's Restaurant Saxton, Porter .. and Speir. Scholarships 10 ,~lbany Law s.choc•l Eat .in or take out lO'Yo discount with Union College J.D. THE BEST IN IT ALlAN & GREEK FOOD Pizza, Ca'lzones., Pastq, Veal Souvloki, Gyros, Wine and Beer Students who are definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for Saxton, Porter, and Speir Scholarships. Forms are available in the Political Science Depart- ment Office. Deadline for submission Veal Parmesan with spaghetti and salad $8.50 Boked lasagna with cheese and salad $4.95 Castello ·s Plzza & Restaurant 1487. State St., Schenectady ·wm Deliver 3 7 4-0581 is July 1. The Philosophy Forum Presents *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men THET·RIAL ~-Tanning . Special 1st Visit Free Weekly 6 Visits $6.95 Tanning Special 50 Visits $49.95 Tanning · Sculptured Special Nails & Tips .1 oo Visits $24.95 $75.00 reg. 35.oo with Union I.D. L__ __ ___l Orson Wens directed this 1962 adaptation .of Kafka's nightmarish novel . 'about a man who is accused of an undefined crime. As with aU of Wells' . works, The Trial's exciting visual style g.rips you from the first frame to the last! Walk-Ins Welcome CAST :Anthony Perkins, Jeanne Mo re·au, Horny Schneider and Orson Wells. *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. Please join us in SS016 on Wednesday, May 18th at 7:00 1307 Nott St. 1 Block. Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady 370-4630 EVERYONE WElCOME ! FREE OF CHARGE ! AND THE CREDIT YOU DESERVE! . $400 CASH FROM FO.AO . AND PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM .FORD CREDIT. At J~k Byrne Ford and Mere. we know '>~~ COtLccl\ how hard\rt'\s to get started finan· . ~ ._,.... c cialty. So here's what we offer. lf ~ -~~ 1',. )UI'vegradUaled. or will graduate. 0 ...,... ... , g with a Bachelor's or advanced degree ~- a:. betweenOc:tcber 1, 1987 and J~u- .... .... ary 31.1989. )IOU may quallry for. .-2 ~ . $400 from Ford and pre--approved c r.; credit from Ford MOtor Credit Com- 11 -1st · rv.o • party. To qualify tor pre-appi'Gved crd. )IOU need: f1) verifiable .. empaoymert begi¥ing Within 120 dayS after )Q,r: whtcle wrcl1ase: (2) a salary sufficient tq,9over normal living expenses plus a car payment: and- (3) if you have a cred'tt reaJrd. it must indicate payment made as agreed. The $400 fror:n Ford is yours whether you fiAance 01 not. Keep it or apply it. to the purctuae or lease of an eligible FQrd or ·Mercury vemcte. For all the details. oontact us m ~~ Program HeadquarterS. toll fn:e. at 1-800·321·1536. Sut hurry. ThiS. limited tit'N(I offer is ,onlY available between Match 1 and December 31.1988. SO take advan- tage of• the Foi'OMercury Colege Graduate Purchase- Program now. FORD JACK BYR FORD. & ME'RCURY JCT. RTS. 4 & 32. ~VIJ.E. N'/12111 PH. fi84.Q8.141 HOURS: t.Df. 1KJA THUA$. tAU-t PM; FR. t AM-IPM; SAT:I.AM--SPM -· ,.

-· ,; j: •l ., ·I \·1 CONCORDIENSIS, May 12,. 1988 Page 1S •· . :SCIENCE AND TEC.HNOLOGY~ The Future df'the U S ·. . . . . •. . .. Space Program The United States space have three prabes. One probe program suffered a major set- woUld investigate the at- back with the Challenger ac- mosphere of Titan, the other cident but continues to be a would investigate Saturn's leader in space exploration. atmosphere and lh:e third .probe T1tis leadersnip is in question would land on the surface of entering the 21st century. Titan. and search for posSible As a result, the Ride Report · life forms. suggests several initiatives 'for The next Jlli.$sion would be the continued U.S. leadership in Mars Rover Sample Return space. The four initiatives are mission and WoUld ;be :of great (1) Mission .of Planet Earth, {2) importance in achieving. the Exploration of the Solar final initiative. These. probes System, (3) Outpost on . the would be sent to Mars tOe collect Moon, and (4) Hwnans on. Mars. samples of the sllliace and It is important to carry out return them to Earth. The Ride these initiatives and others Report suggests. sending tow because as Sally Ride said, probes in 1996 With return in. the ''Withc)ut an eye to the future we year 2002. It is important to note · flounder in the present.\ Space _ that not one of these missions is the unknown frontier. wouldneedtheuseSI)ftheSpace I · The idea of a Mission to Shuttle until the year 1999 when Planet Earth is very import~t. it will be needed to retrieve the As said in the Ride R~port, \Do . Mars samples. · · · · we dare allY our capabilities: to An outpost on tbe moon wo.uld explore the mysteries ·of other enable ~cientiSts to eXplore the worlds and not also explore the potential resources of the moon. mysteries -of· our own.'J The It woUld also allow man to ·Space Capsule - Discovering the· Edge of the Universe Earth is always in a process of understand how to ~dapt tq a global change .. The climate on hostile environment. ··The By MARTY HECK ·Earth iS closely linked by the project hopes to have by the ice covered regions. and the year 2010 up to 30 people Astronomers recently atmosphere. The Mission of working productively on the discovered a galaxy so old and .global observatiqnal sys~em moon. In order to achieve this distant some of the theories would have e1g>eriments, free proposal a robotic lander would behind the foundation of the flying p~atfm'J:ns, in polar, low be sent to the Moon in the 1990's ll!liverse might have to be inclinations and geostationary to map out the surface of the ehanged. orbits and would perform many moon and find a . site for an The distant galaxy is thought measurements. This mission outpost. Then it proposes a ' t(} have originated some 12 would be divided into two return to the moon some time billion years ago. The universe phases and would include the between the year 2000 and 2010. i~ estimated to have begun European Space Agency (ES.A) Withhelp fromthe space station approximately 15 billion years and the Japanese National astronauts would land on the ago. The galaxy, which Space Develo.pment .Agency lunar surface and start the scientists guess is about 10 (NASDA). The first step wollld colonization of the moon. times more massive than our be to launch between 1994-1997 .. Tlle last..Jn~~ion '0~ llum~ ·~'!\ Milky Way Gala_xy, .c~n- four platfotms ~that · wollld · .• -on:' Mars ·oowd be ·achieved: by · ·; t.atns some stars wh1ch .~i:iY provide global polar coverage. the . year 2012, . once the lunar _ have fonned·only about a biU.ipn Then between 1996-2000 five · ·station was totally operational. · years ·after· the Big· Bang;· the · -geostationary platforms wowd These missions and many more , . violent explosion that marked be launched .. This integrated would all be possible with a tlle beginning of our universe. system would provide ·many ~pace ~ation which ~ould be of Technology now allows observations and ·documented . great unportance m man's scientists to view far off data which might allow man to exploration . of the universe. ~alaxi.es and other phenomena. predict changes in the earth. NASA should continue to be a A complicated new procedure The Exploration of the Solar leader. in space and as a result . magnifies the visible light System has .always been of· ~h;opi~ try to o'bt:ain ~he . .l\eceived by space monitoring great importance to NASA. In m1t1attves set up by the :Ebde . i n st r um en t. s, en a b lin g order to continue this leader- Report and many more which astonomers to study objects at ship the Ride Report proposes will help the human race un- tile far edges of the universe. three important initiatives. The derstand:its surroundings more. 'Ihe disc~ver.:y U~st month of the galaxy involved a nwnber of observations with telescopes absorbing radio, infrared and visible light waves. \The Universe is estimated to have f)egun approximately 15 billion years ago.\ The discovery Qf such distant objects in the universe did not, however, catch the scientific conununity by surprise. In the past coUple of years, scientists 11 Discoveries of objects ~!~ ;-til~ \e~es. of tile U9JVe~se are I•kely .to become commonplace • • • \ . have discovered quasars, ex- tremely brilliant obj.ects emitting vast amounts of energy, at least as far .out into the universe and possibly even more distant. Discoveries of objects near tne edges of the Wliverse are likely to become common place in the near future. NASA recently set new priorities for space research. Along with completing projects already underway, NASA plans to orbit four \Great Observatories.\ The first of the four ob- servatories will be the Hubble Space Telescope. The Telescope is due to go up with the early Shuttle flights as soon as they reswne. The Telescope will improve our view of the universe to the same factor that Gallleo's first telescope im- proved vision over the naked eye. AS soon as possible following. ,.·the- . telescepe's launc~;tj~intendSto la~ch and orbit the Gamm..aJRay · Observatory, the Advanced x- ray ARtrophysics Facility, and finally the Space Infrared Telescope Facility. NASA hopes these devices will sufficiently cover the electromagnetic spectrwn that is useful in ob- serving outer sr,ace. The next decade . will certainly mflke many discoveries and possibly lead us to within reach of solving the mysteries of the universe and its creation. first being the CoiDet Ren- -· ---.- ....... --------------------------------------------------- dezvous Asteroid Flyby (CRAF) mission to investigate ·our solar system. The CRAF mission would be launch on 1993 and would have a six month cruise. Its mission would be to fly by the asteroid Hestia and investigate and explore a Main Belt asteroid and comet. The second mission would 'be theCassinimission which would explore Saturn and its latge$t moon Titan. This mission would be laUnChed in 1998 and wollld arrive at its destination in the year 2005. The spacecraft would EARTH DAY! g~~M . : I May 21st THE GARDENS Engineering Mistakes Cause Schoharie Bridge to Collapse • • • ... • - .' •• -~ • J- , By KEVIN GARDNER In April of .1987 the Schoharie Creek Bridge collapsed catastrophically. The New York State Thruway crosses' Schoharie Creek, which iS one of the .largest CQOtri~lltors to the . Mohawk !liver, just about twenty miles from Schenec- tady. On April 5, 1987 one of four piers that support the bridge faUed, dropping the .adjoining span$. Streambed erosion bad allowed the material that sup- ports pier. 3 to be s<:oured out, .r~sulUng jn. the sudden collapse of the bridge. Aithougli sieour w~:s.the actual cause, tMre were rnanY other factors .involved that made the bridge susc~ptible to failw-e, and that made pier 3 a point of special concern. In the design of the'bddge in 1955 the 'designers considered· shallow footings acce able, believillg that the ' was resiStant to . .. we$ obviously not til \ -~. · · ~ ~ _ e son surrounding the sldes of the pier footings Wa$, according to the design. of the bridge, to,:;,~ riprap, an eroslon·resistant fill. In \ con- struction, however; the soil placed around the piers was an easily eroded soil. This soil was tllen capped with riprap. The importance of haVing full depth riprap was not realized, and this deviation from the design aided ill the pjet failure . catastrophic one. Although these methods were not known in 1955, the technology of the 1980's could have easily repaired the weak design that was common earlier in the 1900's. Bridges today are designed.an~ built so that if one ~ection fails, ther<rf!~e alternate routes, called redundants, for In addition to deviation from. . the load· to ·.take~_'l'his was not tlJ.e .. ~design ·and inadequate .., ;the ·.ease ;;Wifu.,ithe.·.,Schoharie bridge· m$pection, the design Bridge. When pier 3 failed, the could have been saved. The design of the bridge should have been strictly adhered to. Any necessary deviations should have been Checked with the designer of the project before installation. Asswnptions, such as flood flow volumes and velocities, should have been understood by bridge inspectors because the conditions met by the bridge change. Changes in conditions should also have been reported to the designer to see if the bridge would still be safe. Finally, old bridges should be cQnstantly evaluated with new technology; we know much more now than we did then. itself waa,not sufficient for the two adjoining spans went . e6n«litions that the bridge would splash, Within a few hours the !Je.subj~cttothirty years later. three standing piers also failed, ,First 1$ that the designers had dropping the other spans. · ll()t anticipated flood flow Thiscatastrophlc event co.uld V()lumes as large as those that have been avoided and lives ()CC\irt\ed·in 1987. This brought· much highet velocities than. expected,. and so increased the etosive · power of the stream. 'l'he :brJdge . had,. in 1955, ex· · perienced-a flood slightlY lar~er tban the: .1987. flood, but thirty year$ of~ero$ion.·had weakened the. pier fQundati<m .. Con- struction upstream from the bridge in 1963 forced · more floodwater under the 'bridge, also increasing the erosive PD'Wer of the flood. There were other factors that beiped make the collapse a PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM \Spin Polarized Atomic Hydrogen'; · Prof~ssor Stuart Crampton Department of Physics Williams College DATE: THURSDAY •MAY 12, 1988 TIME: 4:45 P.M. PLACE: STEINMETZ HALL, ROOM 1 06 Refreshments will be served at 4:30 p.m. AU. ARE WELCOME!

' \ Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, Hay 12; 1988 ARTS~ & FILMS \All God's Chillun\ Main \Sfag·e Deb,u!te May, 18th - 21st ' \\ By MOUNTEBANKS One of the cast members said people are so courageous 1 '' ••• it best, ''Before I wenton stage I \Something like thiS needed to felt ,as if we, as actors, would be done here at Union!\ .•. \The feel like we were on the spot... acting was superb!\... \I en- but once the action of the play joyedeveryminutel '' ... \l cried began I felt different .. ,. I felt as at the end!\ ... \When can I see if the AUDIENCE was on the it again?!\ Well, that question spot!\ That, I believe is the is easy enough to answer. •:• All beauty of this unique production God's Chillun ... \ will make its of Eugene O'Neill's \AU God's main stage debut in the Nott Chillun Got Wings\. It has the Memorial Theatre next week ability to engage the audience after ''·Pippin\ closes. The by making them think and feel. dates are Wednesday, May 18 This highly successful link-up of through Saturday, M~y 21 and two such important cw-tain is at 8,?? every evening. organizations such as Moun- Ticket prices are $3 for tebanks and The Black and students, $4 for faculty and Latin Alliance of Students, has staff, and $5 for the public. provided our campus with an Reservations can be made at opportunity for some· riveting, the Nott Memorial Box Office absorbing drama. Again and (37()..6153). Make sure that you again the same comments were don't miss this once ina college heard after this weekend's career event- \ALL GOD'S preview performance ... \You CHILLUN GOT WINGS\. __ j, ·- 1- Warhol Auctio·n Overcomes Media Hype, Could Prove to be in Co.ntemporary Art June 20 21 24 25 26 John Cougar Mellencamp * Rick Springfield Influential · 'ibyciJRI'§tiNEHONG · '· Edftor\!ino.Ciltef New York City once again was the center of attention of the art world as thousands of art entl'epreneurs and enthusiasts crowded inti) the Sotlleby's New York auction hall last week to witnesstbe highly publicized 10- day auction of the late Andy Warhol's collection. While the media hype, celebrity appearances, and Warhol's . househ()ld name proved to m.;aw attention from even the general public, the tried and true art eonnoisseurs were able to witness the auc- tioning ofseveral contemporary art pieces by prominent artists and in some cases, go home with them. Some of the worthy pieces from Warhol's private collection that exchanged bands last week were Jean Michel Basquiat's double portrait of himself and Warhol which earned $99,000 (this sale could \'help resuscitate Basquiat's career and help him regain some of the ptominence that he had been receiving just three years ago); one of the German artist Joseph :Seuys'. small sketch-drawings which was estimated to bring in $5,000 soared to $55,000; another of the Gennan artists's drawings with a $15,000 value as estimated by Sotheby 1 s .received $121,000 when the gavel finally came down; works by David Hockney also fared well as one of his drawings sold for $7'7,000 as well as his color-pencil portrait of WarhOl which fetcbed $333,000. A srlare abstraction from the artist Max Bill was perhaps the surprise of the Ul·day auction as it brought Jn t89,000, surpassing ten times its estimated value of ·f·· Other artilts that WarJ;lol had coU•ed duriilgb:is career were drawln&a by Tom WeueJ.mann, Cy· TWomblY, Claes OldenbUrg; '·not>ert Rauschenterg and saiD Francis- each of whose work was readily purchased by the auction participants. The two contemporary art sessions which too.k place Monday and Tuesday grossed $7.9 million, far exceeding Sotheby's expected sal~s of $3.2, ~~ :: WhUe~this :auction.,was: .not- of .J:lis. <>m work·but, rather., of his acqllired art collecticn, tbe influence of Warhol's Clwnership on these pieces undoubtedly offered value to the works. Hopefully, the publicity from these pieces might al$C» provide some insight in his CJWil work -28 \ . July. 2,-3 10 17 24 . 25 26 27 28 30 31 August Heart, Michael Bolton* Jethrol Tull Bob Dylan, The Alarm * .(Grateful :Qead(capacity.litnit:30,0.0Q}t., .. • • .. •• r Newport Jazz Festival Richard Marx, Henry Lee Summer · Earth. Wind & Fire John Denver Def Leppard * Robert Plant * Dan Fogelberg Peter, Paul, and Mary Robert Palmer Belinda Carlisle 1 (dance) RudolfNureyev and friends 2 James Taylor 3 Barty Manilow 4 Crosby, Stills and Nash*- 5 Judas Priest, Cinderalla * 6 · Aerosmith 7 Linda Ronstadt (Canciones de mi Padre Tour) 8 Moody Blues 15 Joan Armatrading 16 Judy Collins_, Chet Atkins 21 Ray Charles, the Raelettes and tlle Ray Charles Orchestra 28 Sting* 29· Neil Young and the' Bluenotes * 31 Huey Lewis and the News * September Andy Warhol, Sel.f Portrait, 1986, acrylic and sill<screen on canvas (black and yellow} 2 Chicago to $4.2 million. Other Warhol sessions (outside of the paintings, drawings and prints) . which took up the remaining eight days of the Warhol sale were: Art Nouveau and Art Deco material; eollectibles, jewelry, furniture ·and decorations; jewelry and. watch~s; and American Indian objects. The auction is history now, reinforcing the death of Warhol and his influence on Pop Art during the later b&lf of tbe twentieth .. century. · * There is a 2-6 ti<:ket plll'chase limit per person/order. by revealing his preferenc~s in the eclectic contemporary art Ticket Sale Dates: All tickets (except for The GrateM scene. Dead) for concerts will go on sale starting Sunday, June 5 Those who wisllto see some of from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at the SPAC Box. Office, all the artist's own work may visit Ticketron outlets an~ by telephone from Teletron (1-&00- NewYorkCitywhere severalof 382-8080). Tickets may also be ordered by credit card his pieces may be viewed in the from SPAC beginning June 7. · .. Museum of Modern Art. Closer to Umon, a Visit t() William~ College's new Museum of Art The Grateful Dead tickets will go on sale Friday, June 3 'Will provide you \Vith an op- at 10 a.m. at the SPAC box office and all Ticketron and ~Cru:!~:Mtseb!f!:rg:·~= Teletron o~~ until the 30,000 limit is reached. last year, as weUas tbe works of Approxim,,el~ eight more concert dates. will be many of the artists scld at the annoiattce(fm mtd·J~e. WarhOl auction. L-,..-....;.;;:=~---.;.._--- ......... -- ........................... __...______. /

I _CONCOR.lJlENSIS, May 12, 198$ .rage 17 r v ... · .. ill\_ ... d·· __ - - . ,- ' ' ' . .,· .... : . ByKATIEBOYD Arts Editor A 'ntce' yuppie .birthday party , tlll'ils horror show with the aJ>pearance of the· UpeXI)~ct'ed gnest (gasp) a nerd, in Capital R.ep's. season flnale,. ''THE NERD''. · It's Willum's (the talented e~piring uchitect} 34th bir- thday, and Tansey McGinniS, · WilliJill'S would·b~lover (were it not for their conflicting career a~pirattQns), and Axel Ham- ltl()nd (their disenchanted art- critic always ready with tbe miity. conunent friend), have organized a -birthday party. A pllli;y? A party? The only people who sl1ow up to this dism~n ~eelebration' are Will11IIl~s boss lllld his wife and son. The next ten minutes revolve around t~e yuppies catering to these cardboard cuto.ut characters. Willum caters to his boss Warnock Waldgrave's demands to \take off .all that .molding stufi,\ . regarding the blueprint for Waldgrave's new hotel. 'ransey -- promotes Mrs. Waldgrave and her plate bl'eaking }labit, while Axel UFE. HISTORY: IN Capital Repertory Company's production of the hit Broadw~y eomedy, The Nerd, Rick Steadman (Brad Bellamy, right) -- the quintessential nerd -- bores businessman Warnock Waldgrave (Christopher Wynkoop) with stories of his life as a chalk inspector. Funny and romantic, The nerd runs through J.une 1.2 at the Market Theatre in downtown Albany. For tickets and information e:all (518) 462-4534. attends to the spoiled, crying, moments. Axel (Robertson closet-hiding son. FinallYt the Dean}is an art-critic who has to ·n.erd., Rick Steadman, ap- iniss the last half hour of very !)ears. But hopes of the nerd's play in order to rnake his appearance relieving the . sit.. morning deadlinl!; and. Tansey oom tedium qUickly fade. Rick teases that he, \still tbinks Steadman is also a flat llamelot gets the girl and Godot character, as he is not just a sllows up.\ Riek .Steadman's nerd but \the\ nerdm stereo description ofhisjobworking as tpd black frame glasses, pens an inspector in a cbalk factory in plastic guarded pocket, and is very funny, and several of flood pants. He is the nerd we've .Axel's one-liners are extremely seen again and again, and the clever .. --But, there ate not oiher characters react to him as:, ~o.ougb of- these moments in we've seen numerous other Larry Shue's \The Nerd\. cllaract;ers react again and Perhaps sensational acting llgain. The plot that won't go <!()uld have compi!Ilsated for the 11way, the guest that wouldn't limitation of the plot, however; leave... Hell. tb.e acting in \Tile Nerd\ does No. It's not that bad, and not do any such thing . .All the ,.,The Nerd\ does have its dlaracters seem stiff and the · relationships unbelievable. Compared with the setting, a real life living r!Jom set, the characters appear as mere shadows, demanding the audience to laugb at another shadow. Shadows make iden- tification difficult, and 1 had to wonder: who was really the nerd? If you loveil \Revenge of th~ - Netqs\ situation comedies, and Saturday Night Live skits berating -those -, considered 'unhip' go see \The Nerd\. You won't ·be disappointed. But if you're tired of the \pick on the geek for a laugh re>utine,\ wait until next season to visit the Capital .Repertory Company. WRUC THE NEW 8.97 \Mambo Mania\ strikes again with Machines of Eden , occupying the number one spot for the second week in a row. Where will it all end? CAMP UNION LINE-UP: TOP ADDS Boom Crash Opera, The Dickies, Then Jericho ADYE.NTURE. PICKS Rock:phonies, Deacon Blue, Passion Fodder Eek-a-mouse (reggae) Let's Active (North Carolina) Treat Her Right (Boston) ...:.T...:.W..:...· _ _.,;;::B;;;;,;ag;o;n.:.,'II(I;;;.,_ ______ ;;;;;;,;;A....,Ib...,u;;,;;,;m-..· , ....,\ _____ .L=-:;,;,a b.;;;;;.· ~el 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Thomas Dolby Aliens Ate My Buick EMI Might Lemon Drops World Without End Sire A&M Joe Jackson Ziggy Marley Treat Her Right Bears Firehose 8 . Miracle Legion 8 .. 97 Soup Dragons Live 1980/86 Coscious Party Treat Her Right Rise arid Shine ,:_ !;.... ' ·.·r~ .,Sometimes, Almost Always Virgin RCA MeA· SST· , ,,:l:l Glad Rough Trade Tm~J;.l~ Our Art Sire • I • • \\ ARTS & FILMS ::a· .. ·. ·. w·· ·.· .. lllUC\ I is.JO<?ki~g ~.- .FOt!~ 4. aw_ . I ~ . . ;...~ ~-' ~ ,;J.lJl•·- ~ ,, ' ;, , _· ---_-·· d .. ·_-J·JIZI. ·.. · --~ 1. \ q,, w:o,Mf.Nii: G 'oo. J ~- . , ..... \ ':\ . · .- ~ I -- . 'X -- ' .....;...'. .,.. ARTS BRIEFS \Industrial Buildings, Lansdale, Pa.\ Printmaker & Painter Daniel Da~lman at Union ••• On Wednesday, May 18th at 8 p.m. in room 215 of the Arts Building, Daniel Dallman will present a slide lecture ._ about his ,work.. His. lecture will include prints as W.C?ll as paintings and address the relationship between the two mediums. Mr. Dallman is a Professor at the Tyler School of Arts in Philadelphia and is represented by the Robert Schoelkpf Gallery in New York City. On Thursday morning May 19th Dallman will.be in the Arts Department Print shop for a demonstration. \Pat Sabatini's Eighth Photographer Larry Fink at Union .•• On Thursday, May 19th, Larry Fink will be the Union College guest artist. He will speak about his work from 10:45 a.m. to noon in Arts 215. Fink has received two Guggenheim Fellowhips for photography, a National Endowment for the Arts Photography Fellowship and two New York State CAPS Photography Fellowships. He is currently teaching photography at Lehigh University. Folksinger duo at Carte Lena ••. On Saturday, May 14th at 8:30p.m., Steve Kay and Frank Fusco will perform an evening of original music at the Caffe Lena in Saratoga Springs. The show is a mix of original and contempo1ary folk in a country and blues style. For more infonnatioll call 583..0022. Festival or Nations at Schenectady Museum and Planetari11m ••• On May 14th a c:hiy full of food, music, dance, crafts and culture will· take place at The Schenectady Museum. Twenty nations will be represented in the Festival. For more infonnatioll call 372-7890. ...

J ·~ \ ! '' ' I '· Page 18 CONCORDIENSl$, Ma)' 12·, 1!188 ARTS & FILMS at the movies ..• \Casual'' Sex Fails MiS8ably .. - ByJONBLOOM LEE ANN SCHMIDT and WENDY ZIMMER~ We were wamed, but we dido 't listen. The greasy kid behind the collater openly admittedthat the popcorn was a day old, then he telld us it would cost us the price of a soda to get water. At that pomt we should hav:e researched the refund policy, but there'll alway-s that false hope that leads you on. So what if there vr~re only four other people in tile theater, we rationalized that it was a week night, and wlto wants to deal with a crowd of screaming teenagers anyway'? Casual Sex. The clim~:~x of the movie (no pun intended) came (ditto) when v;e stopped waiting for the film to start and when we were begging. f<>L\ it to end. 'l'he filin makes IIIl attempt to ap- ALL GOD'S CHILLUN GOT . WINGS by Eugene O'Neill Wed·., May 18 - Sat., May 21 NOTT MEMORIAL THEATRE 370-6153 TICKET PRICES $3 Student $4 Faculty _ ·$5 Public THE PASS·ION CONTlN·U ES ... Ll.F\T jilll D~ EARTH DAY IS ,FAST APPROACHING proach issues involving casual sex and relationships in the 1980s (at points it seemed like a falling campaign for safe sex . ~d A.I.D.S. prevention. To pass the time we tried to .figure out who· would take this roovie seriously; we concluded· that Casual Se:x ntigbt appeal to the cheap, gaudy singles set. The only halfway r~spectable character was the humorous \Vin Man,\ a hairy, btillt~up PICNIC. SPONSORED BY THE JEWISH ·STUDENT UNION . SUNDAY, MAY15 AT3:30 PM IN JACKSON'S GARDENS PSI UPSILON Horseshoe T.ournament to Benefit CALEB SNYDER ***First Round: Monday, May 23, 1988. ***Finals: Friday, June 3, 1988 ***Donations: Ten dollars per team *** Matches: Best of Three Best of Seven Final *** Games: Up to Twenty one Played at PSI Upsilon Prizes Donated By: OR IONS STRAWBERRIES ENGLEBARTS GOLDSTOCKS BEN AND JERRY'S MOFFET$ To enter or 1or further lnformatfon--Call; Ceorge or Joe 386·4305 - New Jerseyite looking for. a good tim'e, Within the boun .. daries of a .sketchy scri~ and studio made beach\ scenes, Vin realizes that }lis poor luck· with women is a result of bis superficial exi,stence~ While the movie trudges along Vin educates himself, .starts his OWJ1 business, and becomes a sen- sitive ''and honorable man. UnfortWlately, the '\Vin Man's'' . contribution was not to save this· movie from its weU . deserved place on· the list of· all time losers. . · It seemed like forevet, but the ffi()Vie eventually ended and we fted ·for horne. Apparently the Niskyuna police didn't ap .. preciate our urgency. Officer O'Hara ticketed us for doing 47 in a. 30 zone :and our excuse that the movie's .poor quality drove us to it failed miserablY, just like the fUm .. Arts Congratulates the Jazz ~and Crossgates ·Mall Cinema Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 Seventh Sign / 1 :35, 4:35, 1 0:3'0 12:35 2 Salsa 1:50, 4:50,. 7:40, 10:00 12:05 3 Friday the 13th Part VII 2:00, 4:30, 7:20, 9:50 12:00 4 Above The Law 1:25, 4:20, 7:45, 10:25 12:35 . 5 Dead Heat 1:40, 4:10, 7:05, 9:35 11:30 6 Shakedown 1 :15, 4:001 7:30, 1 0:15 12:30 . 7 Beetlejuice 12:50, 3:35, 6:15, 9:15 11.:30 8 Casual Sex 12:30' 3:1. 5, 6:30, 9:00 11:05 9 Colors 12:40, 3:25, 6:40, 9:35 12:10 10 Biloxi Blues 12:35,3:1 0; 6:10, 8:50 11 :iO . . 11 Blood Sport 1:05, 3:45, 6:45, 9:10 1-1:35 • 12 Milagr<t@~an 12:20. Field 12:55,,3:50, 6:55, 9:45 t ( 1: I I, r.h J :l ., q I '! ,·r 'J

Page 18 ClJNCORDIENSIS, May_ 12, 1988 A _R __ T_S_&_F_I_L_M_S ___________________________ ·~ at the movies . .. ''Casual'' Sex Fails Misef;·ably By JON BLOOM LEE ANN SCHMIDT and WENDY ZIMMERMAN We were warned, but we didn't listen. The greasy kid behind the counter openly admitted that the popcorn was a day old, then he told us it would cost us the price of a soda to get water. At that point we should have researched the refund policy, but there's always that false hope that leads you on. So what if there were only four other people in the theater, we rationalized that it was a week night, and who wants to deal with a crowd of screaming teenagers anyway? CasualSex. The climax of the movie (no pWl intended) came (ditto) when we stopped waiting for the film to start and when we were begging for it to end. The film makes an attempt to ap- ALL GOD'S CHILLUN GOT WI N G S by Eugene O'Neill Wed., May 18 -Sat., May 21 NOTT MEMORIAL THEATRE 370-6153 TICKET PRICES $3 Student $4 Faculty $5 Public THE PASSION CONTINUES ... ~L~'\f-'\·:;.: L_ ' ' ' ,--, . LJ _......-.:.. ___ - (- EARTH DAY IS FAST APPROACHING proach issues involving casua:l sex and relationsllips in the 1980s (at points it seemed like a failing campaign for safe sex and A.I.D.S. preventi(Jn. To pass the time we tried t() figure out who would take this movie seriously; we concLudEd that Casual Sex might appeal to the cheap, gaudy singles set. The only halfway respectable character was the humorous \Vin Man,\ a hairy, l>uilt-up New Jerseyite looking for a good time, Within the boun· daries of a sketchy script and studio made beach scenes, Vin realizes that his poor luck with women is a result of his superficial existence. While the movie trudges along Vin educates himself, starts his own business, and becomes a sen· sitive a11.d honorable man. Unfortunately, the \Vin Man's\ contribution was not enough to save thi~ movie from its well deserved place on the list of aU time losillrs. It seemed like forever, but the movie ewentually ended and we fled for horn.e. Apparently the Niskyuna police didn't ap- preciate ow· urgency. Officer O'Hara ticketed us for doing 47 in a 30 zone and our excuse that the movie's poor quality drove us to it failed miserably, just like the film. Th . w· k' o c·· .··-. · M · · .Is ·. ee . s ·. n. ampus ;.·' oVIes FATAL ATTRACTION May 13~t5 Fri.~StJn. 7, 9, 11 Glenn Close becomes obsessed wrth Michael Douglas after they have. an @.tfaiJ and shefs unable to Uve withowt him. · WITN·ES:S ~~•*·PRiSE**-- MAY 17 TUiS:. 7·911 ..• •··. ' .... ,_ ' ' .. ', ' :·, , ·<'eM'.. . ; '· , . .. . . .. . . . . ·. •· ' · .. :····•:. , ? ·: ''-' •. . . ·. . .. · . H~~£i~Qn(fo·rfii;$t,r$ as Jp~~ Broq~t,Ja tough P:htl@.;qe:l~hta eop wl:to·se only witness t-e ~*~tutat rmurd,e't··is a youn; Amiem boy; ·. . on his firs.l visit to the oltM'~ · ' \ ·. · ' · · · THE • ~'~\h. •-. ,~~~: ~,~:.. ~~~,-.-~~:,,~.~\:1· ·.. ... __ ··.· .. ·. _._ · ......... /:,~_ .. · .. ·· .. , .. Pll').K PI,O~d s O':':lUSl1ll e~tnJ;e~,,f.t~l!ilid.fl.tfil~rJdm. A·~tl~UDiet$!!1€:~, AU rnovies shown in The C4llltiQe Cer~~e.r Atld'iloriu'm, · < ·. · ·· ' · $1 f6r .. ~~~;X~~;'? '\' ,,~,? , ) . NO FO-O·D OR B.EVERAGE ALLOW'EO~ --· -' - ,. -. .. - - ; PICNIC SPONSORED BY THE JEWISH STUDENT UNION SUNDAY,MAY15 AT 3:30PM IN JACKSON'S GARDENS Arts Congratulates the Ja:z:z Band I' PSI UPSILON Horsesl1oe Tournament Crossgates Cinema Mall to Benefit CALEB SNYDER ***First Round: Monday, May 23, 1988 ***Finals: Friday, June 3, 1988 ***Donations: Ten dollars per team *** Matches: Best of Three Best of Seven Final *** Garnes: Up to Twenty one Played at PSI Upsilon Prizes Donated By: ORIONS STRAWBERRIES ENGLEBARTS GOLDSTOCKS BEN AND JERRY'S MOFFETS To enter or tor further Information--Call; George or Joe 386~4305 1 Seventh Sign 2 Salsa 3 Friday the 13th Part VII 4 Above The Law 5 Dead Heat 6 Shakedown 7 Be.etlejuice 8 Casual Sex 9 Colors 10 Biloxi Blues 1 1 Blood Sport 12 Milagro Bean Field Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 :35, 4:35, i 0:30 12:35 1 :50, 4:50, 7:40' i 0:00 12:05. 2:00, 4:30, 7:20, 9:50 12:00 1:25, 4:20, 7:45, 10:25 12:35 1:40,4:10,7:05,9:35 11:30 1:15,4:00,7:30, \10:15 12:30 12:50,3:35,6:15,9:15 11:30 12:30, 3:15. 6:30, 9:00 11:05 12:40,3:25, 6:40,9:35 12:10 \12:35 3:10,6:10,8:50 11:10 1:05, 3:45, 6:45, 9:10 11:35 12:55, 3:5(),. 6:55, 9:45 12:20 l ,,. ! I I :1

CONCORDIENSIS, .May 1.2, 1988 Page 19 ljet ·'Ift: 'Summer County ·~ ~ . :J air ![ee[ing\ ~ ©~[M]lP MOOH@OO at the MAY 27-28 DUTCH HOL.LOW featuring Eek-a- Mouse ·This Week ,. ·• :Fried 'lJougfi May 15-21, 5-10 p.m. , featuring:· Let's Active Treat Her Right • :Frencfi :Fries witfi vinegar DAMBRO'SE CLEANERS • O[d :Fashioned Lemonade • I oed Cfect • Snow Cones OFFICERS. President James c~ Da WSOtl Birchwood Drive Peru, NY 12972 518-6.43-9289 Vice Presidents William P. Dunhan Clarence E, GalstcJn Barbara McMartin Paul A. Schaefer Treasurer David L. New howe 402 Terrace Road Schenectady, NY 12306 Secretary · Edward D. Earl 231 Genesee Street Utica, N\'( 1;150.1 Assistant Secretary Lyclia M. SerreU Chair manE meritus Arthur M. Crock.er STAFF David H. Gibson Executive Direct.or Nott Terrace Heights Schenectady, NY 12308 518-382-7890 TRUSTEES Frances Beifleclte Peter A.A. Berle James L. Biggane Peter R. Borr1ll1i Wayne H. Byrne Thomas L. Cob h Arthur M. Crocker James C. Daws<Jn William P. Dunnam Franklin J. El;y Clarence E. Galston Harold A. Jerry ,.Jr. Edwin E. Ketc:ll1edge Richard W. Lawrence . David H. McAlpin Barbara McMartin David L. Newhouse Harrison H. Payne Clarence Pett.y Daniel R. Plumley Ezra P. Prentice;Jr. Edith G. Reacl Frederic L. Rockefeller William H. Savage Paul A. Schaefer David Siv.e Bernard C. Smith NormanJ. VanValkenburgh · William K.. Verner Grant Webb HONORARY TRUSTEES • Charles H. Callison R. W n-tson Pomeroy Richard H. Peugh Organized 190 1 Incorporated 1902 THE ASSOCIATION FOH. 'l'HE 1517 van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND T AI LORING PROT'ECTION OF THE ADIRONDACKS ·P.O. Box 951 • Schenectady, New York 12301 May 6, 1988 For Immediate Release Contact: David Gibson 518-382-7890 The Adirondack Research Center and the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks will hold a joint Annual Meeting for members and friends· of the Adirondacks on Tuesday, May 17, at the Schenectady Museum, Nott Terrace Heights in Schenectady. The business portion of the n1.eetin.g begins at 1: 30 pm. A program immediately follows at 3:15 pm in the Museum's Auditorium focusing on the signifiqance of the upcoming 1992 Cent~nnial of the Adirondack Park and the need to begin \ planning for this import~nt event. Featured speakers include: Robert C. Glennon, Acting Director of the Adirondack Park Agen9y; Francis J. Murray. Deputy .Secretary for Environment in the Governor's Office; and Barbara McMartin, Centennial Chairperson of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks. This portion of the program is open to all members and the interested public. There is no charge for those attending the program. To conclude the program, at 4: 00 pm a reception will be held to celebrate the' affiliation of. the Adirondack Research Center and the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks. Everyone is welcome. For furthe.r information or directions, please call David Gibson at 518-382-7890. .....

t I l I I I I ! t I { •• CONCORDIENSIS, May 12, 1988 -, (jet rr'fia: '~ummer County % ~ !Fair !F ee{ing\ % at the DUTCH HOLLOW This Week- May 15-21, 5-10 p.m. featuring: ~riec{ 'Dougfi MAY 27-28 featuring Eek-a- Mouse Page 19 Let's Active Treat Her Right • • ~rencli ~ries witli vinegar O{c{ ~asfiionei Lemonaie DAMBROSE CLEANE'RS • Iceirrea • Snow Cones OFFICERS President James C. Dawson Birchwood Drive Peru, NY 12972 518-643-9289 Vice Presidents William P. Dunham Clarence E. Galston Barbara McMartin Paul A. Schaefer Treasurer David L. Newhouse 402 Terrace Road Schenectady, NY 12306 Secretary Edward D. Earl 231 Genesee Street Utica, NY 13501 Assistant Secretary Lydia M. Serrell Chairman Emeritus Arthur M. Crocker STAFF David H. Gibson Executive Director Nott Terrace Heights Schenectady, NY 12308 518-382-7890 TRUSTEES Frances Beinecke Peter A.A. Berle James L. Biggane Peter R. Borrelli Wayne H. Byrne Thomas L. Cobb Arthur M. Crocker James C. Dawson William P. Dunham Franklin J. Ely Clarence E. Galswn Harold A. Jerry, Jr. Edwin E. Ketchledge Richard W. Lawrence David H. McAlpin Barbara McMartin David L. Newhouse Harrison H. Payne Clarence Petty Daniel R. Plumley Ezra P. Prentice, Jr. Edith G. Read Frederic L. Rockefeller William H. Savage Paul A. Schaefer David Siv.e Bernard C. Smith Norman J. VanValkenburgh William K. Verner Grant Webb ijONORARYTRUSTEES Charles H.Callis{)n R. Wat.son Pomerr>y Richard H. Pough Organized 1901 Incorporated 1902 THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE 1517 Van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING PROTECTION OF THE ADIRONDACKS P.O. Box 951 • Schenectady, New York 12301 May 6, 1988 For Immediate Release Contact: David Gibson 518-382-7890 The Adirondack Research Center and the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks will hold a joint Annual Meeting for members and friends of the Adirondacks on Tuesday, May 17, at the Schenect.:l.dy Museum, Nott Terrace Heights in Schenectady The business port; on of the n1eeting begins at 1: 30 pm. A program immedwtely follows at 3. 15 pm in the Museum's Auditorium focusing on the significance of the upcommg 1992 Centennial of the Adtrondack Park and the need to begin planning for this important event. Featured speakers include: Robert C. Glennon, Acting Director of the Adirondack Park Agency; Francis J. Murray, Deputy Secretary for Environment in the Governor's Office; and Barbara McMartin, Centennial Chairperson of the Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks. This portion of the program is open to all members and the interested public. There is no charge for those attending the program. To conclude the program, at 4: 00 pm a reception will be held to celebrate the' affiliation of the Adirondack Research Center and the Association for the Pt-otection of the Adirondacks. Everyone is welcome. For further information or directions. please call David G1bson at 518-382-7890. ' ' • ' l •' > o ' '' • • '• ' ' I ' ' ' • \ • ' ~ • ' •' o • o • J < \ •

f ' . ' ' <' i Page 20 CONCORJ)IENSIS, May .12, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS SCHOLARSHIPS · hunger _ (,)rganizations: . CROP/Church World Service . ----------'!'\' and, in Schenectady, CFS Reading on a one to one. Please contact Lisa Mercugliano, 37();. 6986. The B\lsiness and Professional Women's Foun- dation announces a new scholarship fund to assist black women aged 25 · and over. Scbolarshi,p awards of up to $500 will be made on a first come, first served basis to be used £or tuition ami/books. Applications are available between February 1 - April l with an April 15 deadline and between July 1 - September 1 with a September II> deadline. For more information and an ap- plication on the St. Paul Foundation send a self- addressed business-size en- velope with two first class stamps to: The Business and Professional Women's Foun- dation, 2012Massachusetts Ave. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. CLASSIFIEDS He~p wanted soon with all types of work connected with a furniture st{)re. Need a strong individual perhaps one who can drive a van. 823 Eastern Ave. 374-7785. - . Resumes professionally composed and typed for that impQrtant decision. IBM memory typewriter. Call Kathy 399-4657. Hoose sitting situation wanted: Older returning studen~. single. Please contact John McGuire .c/o Civil Engineering Department. Call Ext. 6262 ASAP. Interested in politics? Make it pay with citizen action. We are now hiring canvassers to work on envirorunental and con- sumer campaigns. 2 ... 10 · p.m. $190 to $25() per week. Pay training. Part time/full time. Call John at 465-4600. Wanted: Delivery Person. Pizza shop afternoons or eve:nings. Ph<lne 355-7875. CLUB NEWS Hunger Walkathon-Sunday, May 15 a ten kilometer walk starting at Linton High School. Registration at 1:00 p.m. Walk begins at 1:30 p.m. Funds raised will go to world and local Senior Meals Program, the emergency food pantries and concerned for the Hungry. Prizes will be awarded. Sponsor sheets may be picked up in t)1e Religious Programs Office. Newman Elections\-Monday May 16 at 7 p.m. in CC 410 there :will be elections for '88 p '89 officers as well as an assessment of this past year . and brainstorming for the future. All are welcome. Newman Picnic--Monday, May 23 5-7 p.m. Union students, faculty, staff, and their families are invited to Dutch Holl()W Patio or in case of rain Cabar.et Pit. Please RSVP by Friday, May 20 to Sr. Joan's office 1 3'70- 6087. Leave namE and number attending. Visit Shut-Ins-Any Union student who wishes to visit a homebound parlshoner .of St. John's on a regular basis during these spring m()nths please contactGerri Borne 372-3381. Tutoring Prctgram-Union College students 'can be used in the following areas at St. John the Evangelist School: Kin- dergarten, Computer Math & Folk Group--Meets Sunday evenings with Friar Phil at 7:30 p.m. in St. John the Evangelist Church to .prepare. for 7:30 p.m. Liturgy. New members are always welcome. PERSONALS Dean D. Blue is in the eyes of the ·beholder! Skat Apartment on Van Vranken Ave. available for fall term - · very inexpensive. For more information call Nancy or Margie x4374. Gina Riverso, you dancing wild woman, hope yoa had a great senior week. Delta Gamma loves you. · Chris Donnelly- , Hope this week is something special. The best is yet to come! Have a blast! Love, You.r secret sister Fox 224 Resident-\You remember the faces, the places, the names;. you know it's never GREEK WEEK '88 May 11-14 Don't Miss Out! -Sporting Events (Wed.-Sat.) volleyball, softball, tug-of-war, utlimate ---Greek Tour '88 . c- -Delta Chi Tie Dye Cabaret- Thurs. 9:00 pm - Hot Dog Eating Contest- Sat. 1 :30 pm -Mystery Event- Sat. 2:00 pm - Stay· tuned -O.P. Taylor Band- Sat. 2:30 -5:00pm -Awards - Barbecue- Sat. 3:30 -Dusk --Alpha Epsilon Pi party Fri., 1 0 p.m. 305 Seward . &3G60U~-u . ] • J?~ S~\). '\w'~ \~\«J oN \X\~ sr\\\~ \e~r<\ ?JUlt· __) '. over, it's as rel«3ntless as the rain.\ Do you·reme:rnl)ef'wbai happened a year .ago'? Do you care? Thank you, everyone. Love LeAta t. .. ' Deero--- . ~· Sunday you won't be a teenage1 any more! Does tllat mean yo11 become stag-0? Olympic teams get ;psyched, only 8 more ·days until the DG Olympics! ! Attention Psi U: To the person who is missing tan benetton pants and bluchers,-youhave a lot of cleaning to do! 1·1 Leslie Ross Vuarnet wants YOU to help Doe~. market their products ·. natienwide ... You've got the To the Happy Days gang: perfect nose·! ; FOUND at Jack's Restaurant: HERCUES RETURNS! B11t will he have an \l'' in his nam-e this time One set of SOT parents left,over R:ude,. Crude, Lewd,. • from Saturday dinner. and Ol>noxio11s Pa- Wasn't sightseeill!g in Water· vliet exciting? I~d never see:.n thearsenal before! Fred Leather & CindiiJ()U-'-' Come the wee wee hours, well m;,;.J.ybe baby, the ticketron ma.n wanted more money! Mary :Beth • Marjorie~ . Thanks for casting Marj.orie • Morningstar and the coconut. splurge. It made Parents Weekend more bearable. Love, Gail Jen, Larry, Jill, Maria,. Amy and Jenny: Thanks for making· my 21st great! · -scake. To:p 10 Reasons Why We.Did·n't Write A Top lO.>list This Week by DJI< and TMW tO. Couldn't 1ear ourselv~s away from Oprah special on overweight, bald, battered, minority women 9. DJK distraught over ni~tltmare about Gorbachev in Smartfoo.d boxer shorts a. TMW had to fish roommate out of dirty clothes pile · 7. DJK couldn't miss \Killg Tusk\ in Glens'Falls · ·. · · 6. TMW busted by Dining Services (there was nowhere to hide .... ) 5. DJ.K had notes stolen by mysterious on-campus gorrilla 4.TMW too busy killing f\.linjas in Carnegie 3. DJK's roorn being picl<eted by SPAA 2.TMW recQ;vering.fromPIPPIN cast parties · 1 . Parents' VJeekend just too emotionally draining 1~e F\Rcsi S1€P lS 1o Al>fi'l\ \ mes A~·fv\. ~ I I

CONCORDIENSIS, May 12., 1988 Page 21 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONA.LS I. Deb,. DUke, YUke, and the ·quicker • Julie-''If you only wanted to .. · look you should have gone to · Corey-Uh, ltink I, uh, like you. piCker upper. · ' · · · Have a PEPSI-it'sonme. Val • the li~rary\ -Killer Come and uh, viset me at uh, URI. RD-What were you doing in West late Monday night (Tuesday morning)? See anything interesting on y9ur way out? - Tbe embarrassed.one YO B-'get over here! Did you dropthe cucwnber? -A con(!erned consumer 4., nay, who? 3 •.. 3~ .. Val, are you wit:h us? - Wanna bet where he sits?_ Always remember and never forget.,;you~re in a Chi Psi--if you don't getthat beer •.• ·- OhSy'lvia, _Jlow do :rou call your lover boy? Mickey ' Deb, Better yet, have a Big Mac·! Jo • SIX slimey snakes slowly . slithering so1,1thward. Yes, turtle. Are you .a turtle? Jo- Please feel free to· address me as·.R.H. Val How do you feel; J.()hanna? v~h Val, I feel random! Jo Lizard- Welcome to the Onion-it's a good change from hell. Be careful during your limited stay ... I have random friends. DJK-Whati? NoTopTenList? God forbid! -TMW \Pippin\ cast & crew~the opening gets no credit! Oh well, keep it up and if we \practice\ hard we'll be ready for the final cast party by Saturday. -Your Favorite Comic, TMW Mo'!ISSaka? SDT JAIL---'Friday, May 13~ Library Plaza, 10:'30 a.m. to 2:00p.m.! · How many times have you said , to yourself, \Ah s--t nothing to . do this weekend'!\ Come to - :Duteb.HoUow Resta11rant! Andrew S.-1 still love you even though you have a Big Mouth! · -.:Les Spaces still available in Lori Kaplan's Driving Scl'loor. Road tests given nightly-drinks will be served. BW-4 weeks to go! N~ more of this serious crap, we're having fun!_:_LM PSI UPSILON,...-Horseshoe tournament 1st roWld Mon., May 23. For more information contact George or Joe at Psi U, 386-4305. The Following Two Exams we.re Omitted from the Final Exam Schedule MO·NDAY, JUNE 6- 8:30-10:30 A.M SOC 157 - Work, Occupations & The ·Professions- D. Walcza·k ·- SSCI 014. due to Late Submission . BLOOM COUNTY weNT ON fl t?flrf: Wt7H COKNff../11 we~r. ( 1fi/S 15 COF<tf/f.Ufl 6fJ~r6 1110nrer< / J$r11Y t.fl'f\l.£ \\ COr<NY 611£~ mt:::Ke :<' O(JT fi()W6R5. . • · 'F{Jf( 111/:ifl.R 13/C.t 1Hf; C/1.T. II / f - I /l!WC!N& W/1118/U. 1HE Cl1r. / T~ESDA Y, JUNE 7- 2:00~4:00 -PM SOC 10-1 - Introduction to, Sociology - 0. Walczak- HUMN 115fll Ofl MY @OP. MY WdRlfl/5 CK(JMBC.fNG 1180(JTM6 ... ·~ !Jt.!Til.f. ·~·; IV.U It:;; • I by Berke _Breathed' ~--------------~· CORNU/A 11N/J 13/U- / ''MY Pa1RE5T Blt.L. , 171EJf !fO~f5j /1/~r<e Rfff?, evr rvow mf.Y'KE a!IP, I IIOJRIJ YrJ(J'K6 l?fll!N& CORNet../ It' ... 1 W/51-f YrJ(J WOf</11(} IN YO(JR HMfJ.'' --J tfiJCrAC. Ct-l/lllf3!NG . / H&/i..Hrrrfl NO FfJ!<.Y UKE! • Jet/NC KlrfkPifl!?ICI< :J(,{)f{NI!P. ( Bill , FRIDAY THE 13. Pods and . Peas let's make it another · • memorable nigllt~and let's ·. even trytorememberitaU! Anything goes (almost) May 20 · - 3:00 - All Campus Picture DAVE: With Gretch's history and yours, we've decided to move into the bathroom. It seems to be more convenient for all involved. \Shoot Yourself\ May 20, 10 a.m. - 2 p.m.,.'College Center Myron 4 pins??! Take your vit. E, I sense a title match in the planning. Contact Dot for Details. Almost anythning goes at the All Campus Picture May 20, 3:00p.m., West Wall. Wanted: Use of a Radio Shack model 100 portable computer for next year winter term. Next year winter term. Please call6908 Susan J-How is the housing situation this weekend? Any vacancies? --8 POD POSTERITY Shaw- What is it that you want to grow after college? Won't that require you to change your name? Inez Dane Ross, DoubJe threes...:. , Drink Pledge! Sue, Thank you for the photo. See you around. Mel Dear Bob, Sorry I didn't get to kiss you goodbye. I hope it's not as bad as you said it would be. Love and kisses, Jules Welcome hOme Honey! · Congrats on a successful 1st year post-grad. One down, two to go! Are you still looking for a summer job? The Maine Medical Center is hiring: good wages, flexible hours, lots of benefits[. Monday night, will yo11 be my dinner date? Congratulations J en Lee and Terri T.! We'reproudofyou! DG seniors ... Aren't we awesome!! Toad B- Thanks for the advice, but who knows what is right? Besides, it's not always fun that way. Love Jenn(FB) Ezzy- Tuck in the -. Your best friend, AT&T. P.S. Here's the schedule for tonight?: At 10:35 we strangle her with the phone cord. TFT-Look, we're not even leaving you: a personal. Congratulations! Now you're in the Delta house! Wa Wa Wa! Your only friends, Davidson 251. P.S. No moire festering on our COilCh. Lou - Who, Look ·what you've done to my rep! and me, such an jnnocent lil' chi!'! Skinny-Butt! Innuendo and libido would like to say that they like you anyway. So be psyched! . _,

Page 22 CONCORDIENSlS, May 12, 1988 .-------~----.....--NEW GAT:ESMEN *88 -------,_, NAME 1. Dave Adinolfi '90 2. Janice Altieri '91 3. Ben Auslander '90 4. John Baker '89 5. Katie s·oyd '89 6. JuUe Brand '91 . 7. Shirley Cagle '90 8. Catherine Chiu '91 9. Cyndie Cooney ~~go 1 0. Nancy Conway '90 11 . Martha 'Downer '90 12:. Sheryl Dunn '90 13. Karen Fitzgerald '91 14. Andi Goldberg '90 15. Karl Hartmann '90 16. Bruce Hay '90 17. Lynda Hynes '90 18. Robin lsserles '90 19. John Jadhon '91 20. Mary Kelly '90 21. Susan Kersch '91 . 22. Stan Kitzinger '89 23 .. Mary Beth Manning '89 24. Franz Litz '9:1 . ·2s. Ellen M.auo.tf '91 26. Joel McKuln '90 27. Karen Nourizadeh '90 28.. Leslie Orner '89 29. Sue Overslaugh '90 30. Robin Palladino '90 31. Margaret Parsons '91 32. Gina Prokosch '90 33. Jill Ridy '91 34. Annette Romita '89 35. Kristen Ryan '90 36. Kristen Santos '89 37. Lesli\e Shapiro '89 38. Gwen Stevens '90 39. Craig Summers '89 40. Beth Turney '90 41. Ingrid Vai '89 42. Mark Zim·merman '90 ''Mom says the house just istit the s~e without me, even though its a lot cleaner.'' . . ~·:.t University of Roches~e·r . Graduate School of Education & · Human Development We Matcb Emp,ire State Scholarships (fuli.;tim.e, matriculated students only) Apply today for admission for M.Ed. & MAT leading to teacher certification J)eadline for Completed Application: July 1, 1988 Write or call (collect) Office of Academic Services~ GSEHD 304 Lattimore • University of Rochester Rochester NY · 14627 (71~ 275-3950 just because your Mom is far away, doesn't mean you can't be close. You can still share the love and · laughteronAT&TLong Distance Service. It costs less than you . think to hear that she likes · the peace and quiet, but she misses you. So go ahead, give your Mom a caU. You can dean your room later. Reach out and · touch someone~ AD.T The right choice. GE:T THE FACTS ·ON· TH·E CIA John Stockwell, former top-level CIA official and critic of the Agency, will speak on May .17 at 7:30 in the · ·• College Cente.r Presented by the Speakers Forum H2·49~2 8~' McCit:!lAN SliiEEl ScH<fy, N.Y. 12~

CONCORDIENSIS~ May 12, 1988 Page 23 -- . .,... - - - - ~ - ---- Women Tracksters Put Union on· Map Bringing b()JP.e the first of several.medals, freshman Kara Merrill placed sixth in the lOkm run with a time of 42:35. Also competing Friday, .Liz Dobbs ran an impressive 100 meter hurdle race in 17 ;0 seconds breaking her o\m school record. Later ,in the evening, she was joined by Lori Anderson as the two shared the thrill of the 400 :::.! meter hurdles. ~ Claire Ginsberg-Lytle ran her ~ seasonal best as she challenged ~ nationally .rallkedrunners in the ~'\' 800 meter dasll. A}though net in · ~ her USQal event, Claire held her ~ own with a fine time of 2:31.1. Iii Qualifying . on Friday for ~ Saturday's finals were the o: 4x400m relay, Meg Parsons in 5 the 400ni dash and Jen Lee in 0 the 800m dash. Saturday proved The Union Women's Track team:_congratulations on a successful fruitful for these talented season. · athletes. Once again, the Union the New York State CJham- Early in the day, Eileen Women's Track Team faced a pionships. Represented j)y nine Brady demonstrated her ability busy weekend. Thirteen teams talented teammates, the able as she competed well in her met at the University- of athletes put Union on t.lle map event, the 1a00 meter run. Meg Rochester in order to compete in with their whopping 14 points. Parsons ran powerfully iri the Speaking of Sports Heroic Lady's Lax Appreciated By'CARL FRIEDRICH, JR. So moved was I by last week's women's lacrosse article that I had to briefly l\eturn to my beloved Sports section from my current term abroad in the News department. Last week's article was entitled \If You Had Been There You Would Have wved Us!\ Although tb,e title sounded somewhat sarcastic, I could not have agreed witn its literal translation more. . feeling towards the team. Seldom in the arena of sports can one leave the field ()£ play, after a loss, and feel as close to a victory ·as the women 1 s team often enables the fans to do. The Dutchmen work hard, never giv up, and never leave this fan with an unsatisfied feeliJJg. star, .but everyone is a hero. In fact, last week; s article is a· tribute to that spirit, as the by- line read \By the Women's Lacrosse Team.\ In resP.()nse to the ladies feeling- of -·possibly . unap- . 400m dash. Her time of 6(J..4 seconds earned her a new sc6ool record .and a shiny fowth place medal. Terri Thomas also earned one of these higbly touted honors as· she sped her way to a fourth place finish in the 200m dash with an in~ credible time of 26.2 seconds; yet another school r~ord for Terri! Also capturing a medal for Union, Senior star athlete Jen Lee ran to a siXth place finish in a very competitive 800m dash. Crushing the <~ld school record by over three seconds, Jen's time is more than com- mendable. Both of Union's relay teams had fine perfonnances. The 4x400m team of Terri Thomas, Denise McMillan, Meg .Parsons, and Liz Dobbs finished their lap in a mere 52.0 seconds, ad· vancing them into the final competition and setting a new school record for Union. The 4xWOm relay team of Terri Thomas., Meg Parsons. Claire Ginsberg-Lytle, and Jen Lee added some points to Union's score as they placed fourth in the event with their time of 4: 12 ininutes. Ending the competition With 14 points~ four medals, and five new $!hool records, the girls have every reason to be proud. Represented by nine ·talented teammates, the able athletes put Union on the map. . Though this meet marked the end of a successflll season for some of the runner$, several will CC)ntinue by competing this weekend in the prestigious ECACmeet. Finally, the members of the track team would like to congratulate their own Jen Lee and \rerri Thomas for being awarded .SENIOR ATHlETE OF 1'HE• YEAR and MOST PROMISING ATHLETE, respectively. 1:~ • .'?~-\'\' My as frequent·asmpossible trips to the La(ly Dutchmen's games have always left this writer wi~h an inspirational From the pre-game cllant to the post-game cheer, thelaxters give hope .and feeling to the sport. In this sence, they put a smile on Y.Our face, while never letting you forget the intensity of their desire to win. Th~y play as a tean., and never forget that key fact to success. No one is a preciated effort, they should not fear. Their performance was well noted and remembered. It is the sincere hope that all people can see the good which was visible throughout the entire 1988 campaign, and that it in turn will set the tone for the future of athletics in all sports at Union, With inspiration like this, we can never lose. Face off: Sarah Shaw draws for the ball. Need a Part~Time Job For Next Year? . Beco!MA CAREER ASSISTANT SEARCH REOPENED for 1988 • 1989 This paraprofessional, p~id pqsition enables students 10 work with tile CQ:reer ~velopment Genter, conducting workshops, acting as a liaison betWeen stuqents and COC. and asliisting students in lhe jo~ search process. For applicalions.and position descriptitm contact CDS_ or Peter Trolio ~~ o 310-6176. '•\ ·Application DeadUne: M.ay 17 Open to Freshm.en, Sophomores & J~ors Softball Season Wrap Up By SUSAN KERSCH For the Union Softball Team, the season ended in a flourish of activity. · They lost ~.to St. Rose due to a couple of errors which proved ' ~ fatal. Kris Tieney pitched a ~ strong game and went 4 for a at g theplate. 8 A big comeback in the 7th ~ inning wasn't enough for Union c:5 to ptill ahead of Oneonta who ..,.. won 6-9. Catcher Becky Thayer ili tripled and Joyce Whitted S doubled. ~ Next, UI!i()n faced ~hman and destroyed them 27·3, scoring 17 in the first inning. Colleen Duad()n and Thayer both had homers. Hamilton was much more of a challenge. h1 freezing rain and hail Hamilton came back .in the 7th to win 45. Jean Monaco hit 2 singles and a double. The The team finished with a11 8-8 r~cord and is going to states this Friday. If their bats remain explosive, they could easily' be very successfu 1 l. second game was lost 1-3. Susan Kersch batted 2 for 2. Union defeated RPI in a fast paced game. Union's, strong defense kept RPI scoreless (7-0).. RllSsell Sage was beaten 11-9 in an ex: citing game. Tierney & Theresa Sanchez homered in the 7th and both Thayer and Monaco tripled. Univn's bats weren't as alive in the second game. They lost 2-4. The highligllt of the game was a breathtaking diving catch made by Shelly Pino. . Union ended their season with a strong performance against North Adams 2~1. Dund~n tripled and Missy Itladtk doubled. . The team finished with an 8-8 record and is g!)ing to Stat~s thisFriday.lf their bats remam explosive, they coUld easily be very successful. \The Jewish Vote and the '88 Presidential El:ection\ SPEAKER: DEAN TERRY WEIN~R Friday, May 13 6:00 p.m. Dinner 7:00p.m. Speaker Program KOSHER KITCHEN, WEST COLLEGE -

Dutchmen take pair from Rochester In doubleheader finale. Ever get that .ltmely feeling? May 12, tea~ Baseball, Hot Dogs, Apple Pie an.d Doubl,e Headers Dutchmen Run ·Hartwick Warriors into the Groun;d By GREG GOETZ and some players missed games due to minor injuries. By CARA TABACK stolen base and - an RBI. Designated hitter Deke Lincoln This week in basebal1• local · took a hard one for the team as fans joined in on the celellration he was hit by a pitch on the side of· Matts Brewery l(loth anm of his batting helmet. He had niversary. In the stan(!.s, the three ml)re passes to first -· with comeback to an umpire making two walks and a single to right. a bad call was overwhelmingly And New Hampshire residents \Sic Pete Rose on him['~ And as had something to cheer about as Union paid tribute to parents, Matt Hoover added two singles dozens of adoring :family · to leave him batting .429 after 20 members crowded in for a pair games. of double headers on this Meanwhile the seniors have Central Park giveaway- opted to end their Union careers weekend, as the basebaU team much in the same way as for- gave away a pair of losses t() mer Red Sox player Ted both Rochester and Hollart. Williams. Williams powered in In Game One on F'riday, Mark a homertlll in his last time at bat Trudeau completed lris first and the seniors are following game of the year as he led suit. Ken Horan, as shortstop in Union over the Univel'sity of Friday's first game, smashed a Rochester, 7-6. The three games double 8Ild a triple for 3 RBI's to that followed showed fi!ie play boost Ws average even closer to by the seniors as well as by the the .400 mavk. The next game, freshmen who proverl great he pitched his best of the year as prospects for next yea-. Neil he allowed only 1 unearned run Walkoff, batting, first in the and 4 bits. He faced three order, a spot he is likelyt() grow batters in every inning but the accustomed to next yea-:~ went 2 third, when Rochester sent five for 4 on the weekend~ with a men to the plate and scored with two out on a Union error. Dave Anderson hit two singles to left in Game Two forntwo .RBI's as he warmed up for the next day. Bob Anderson and Dan Klinger, who double as football players in the fall, though facing no Bo Jackson- like criticism. are ending the year on an upswing of power. (Anderson is a sophomore and Klingerisajunior.) Klinger had three hits against RPI earlier in the week and contributed 2 RBI's against Rochester in the second game as Union defeated them by a score of 9-1, after a 7- run second inning. Bob Anderson has taken .part in 11 of Union's 16 double plays on the year. Against Hobart on Saturday, he smashed two doubles to right and a single for two RBI' s as Union won the first game, 6-2, and the second game, 12-7. . Last Wednesday, the Union The Datchmen played a very College Men's Lacrosse Team competitive schedule including ended their season under some nationally ranked teams, weather conditions one would such as BIT, St. Lawrence and assiciate with a $pring sport, as MiddlebW'y. They also fac.ed opposed to the cold wet and other to11gh teams, generally windy climate which has played a hard-nosed brand of followed them around like a lacrosse, and were rarely out of cold you can't get rid of. The any game. There were times Hartwick Warriors visited and when the only thin,g wrong with suffered .from a little team Union's game was that their dissension, apparent in their in- shots wollldnot find the cag.e, as fighting on the bench. Union opposing goalies would make played an up-tempo game and saves.()nly possible during REM outran the Warriors to a 11-6 sleep or the goal posts woUld victory. stop what t_he goalie couldn't. The Dutchmen jumped out to ~ Union's offense was led by a quick 4-0 lead in the first Keller (29,6), Horn (28,8)) and quarter. They overwhelmed Len LpMoii.ica (4,22). Scoring Hartwick who did not play like a was rounded out by De Bardi.nis team with a 1-3 record. Union (11,3), Baratoff (10,3), Cotier cleared the ball at will and (6,3), Henderson (5,3), I...ciwson physically dominated the t0,6), Jason Albert (4,2), Warriors. Defensemen Steve Uccellini (3,1), Friedrich (2,1), Garnett, Pat Lawson, and Bob · Jon Garguilo (2,1), Greg Again, seniors showed their veteran power. Tim Valachovic pitched a 3-hitter in the first game to lower his ERA to 3.51. Dave Anderson had fans yelling from Schenectady to his home state of Maryland as he drove w two doubles to left center in his . ~ first two appearances at the ~ plate, and then slammed his § second homer of the year over the fence in left. Ken Horan, 0 1-8 again on the rampage, smashed his sixth double of the year and 1D his first homer. Glenn Kata, not 2 to. be outdone by fellow ~ classmates, also had two hits on c., the day. Playing position three, first baseman Dan Klinger added 3 singles in the second game and Scott Goldsmith, two. Five insurance · ruris in · the nr:tn were ignited by Neil Walko££ who drove the ball hard to left to score a run. After that, the Hobart pitcher lost much of his control and Dave Giordano went on to save Mark Callahan's second win of .the year. The weekend was chock full of Youth, talent, and leadership should help the laxmen break out of the pack next year. Gobronled fast breaks and got assists on each of John Kellel\'S goals ... Phil Horn was lln- . stoppable with five goals and one assist. other scorers f()r Union were Dave DeBardinis (1,1), Nick Baratoff (1,1), Carl Friedrich (1,0), Blake Hen- derson (0,1), and Pete Cotier (0, 1). In goal, John Thorne was ()Utstanding, stopping nearly 80 percent of the Warrior's at- '.• . . .· ~· ·. ,,., . fUn and baseball- base hits · · :.:.* 4 ~.:;- mr .:t . . . . , balks, an ejection, a foul ball tempts. . . It was a difficult seasou for the Dutchmen who finished at6- 8. Coaches Priore and Fogerty had a talented squad to work with, but had to overcome early season injuries, including a season ending wrist injury to senior attackman Tony DaRin. Another important loss to the team was- midfielder Mike Uccellini who fell .prey to the turf and blew out his right knee during the :Middlebury game and was lost for the seas()n. Besides.thesemajor injuries the team suffered nagging injuries Leahey (0,1), Sean Morton (0,1), Steve Garnett (0,1)., and Bob Gobron (0,1). John Thorne didrl't leave net all year and registered over 200 saves, stopping nearly 70 percent ·Of all shots. Union's defense was led by consistent performances by Gary Coornick; Leahey, Lawson, Chuck Weber,. Garnett, Gobron and Chris Johnson, who showecl much improvement during the course of the season, Thollgh they are losing leadership and experience in all areas; enough young players gained valuable experience which should overcome these losses. These underclassmen should be able to assume leadership roles and .gwde the Dutchmen to a more successful sea130n next spring. If the hard work and effort which went into this season can be repeated next yetlr 1 then the Union College Men,s Lacrosse Team should be abL-e to rebound given their tale~t and youth. 4-.. ;:,· .. ~:t:··'i : ;~ .. ,· ~~'.:,:: :· ·-~~-;~s:~\~;~ !r::~;,~;J~:~:fc~:;r~~~ t~li1ll' · ~,! • '·\\' .• , • · • J* \' ·-- • ·'#1. · \' games, a mini~rain delay, ··.· .· ./':::~K*:t~'~:~J!?s f:;~ :,;_;;~i:Y,,iJ~:;:~, ., •. :·,·ii parents, warm, sunny days, \\' \'' . guest appearances by Buddy, and best of all- wins. The throw istoo late to cut down the Dutchmen r Support ·u • · ·· nton Spring Athletics

CXVJI, No .. 25 .S·e·nator Clark, Visiting Fellow, Speaks on His Me,eting with Gorbachev ~ynAVIDGULLIVSR Relatively few Americans have met Soviet leader Mikliail Gorllachev face to face, but Senator Diek Clark, last week's visiting Wo.oclrow Wilson fellow, is onE of them. Clark: s~l.\'ed his perceptions of Go:rbachev and of U.S.-Soviet relations ill classes and a lec- ture . last week. Clark, with Senators Nunn, Cranston, Levi:n. Cohen and Simpson and several U :~. scholars, met with Gorbachev· in March for a threE·bour interview. G.orbachev is a ''quick .study-\ and a \~ood listener,\ ac- cord:ing to Clark. When a Senator w~uld ask a par- ticularly long, detailed question, Gorbachev would easily grasp the nuances of it. Gortlacllev also answered questions iJy using facts and det!Lils rather t:ban generali~ations; and. appeared to have all the necessary in- formation coiiUilitted· to .. me.iJlQl'~{ ii !~ 'H:' I'.''' iII' r·: r (!' jl ! H~'was ~1So '·'qfiii.:l{t'dtak~ tlie appearances, and has become one of his closest advisors. In general, Clark sO:id, the · Soviet scientific commlll1ity has . mueh more access to the political leadership than Senator Dick Clark at Union American s.cientists. . . Ov:erall, Gorbachev is \vetj ·biiight'' and. a · ''formidable leader,\ Clark said. He called Gorbachev' s views on ideology \adaptable;\ that See CLARK, p. 3 ~·High Voltage_ Wire Explodes And Leaves Campus Powerless By R. REED WHIDDEN News Editor For approximately 16 hours last Thursday, the College experienced a loss of power. At 5:30a.m. a cable running from 1877 Sto,ckwell Blasts c·.I.A. Exposes Secret Wars and Central Intelligence Scandals a power sub-station exploded By BRUCE HAY, Jr. causing much damage to several other wires. John Stockwell came to Union · As has occurred in the recent College Tuesday evening to past, this cable grew old and its discuss \The secret wars of the deterioration caused the power CJA.\ He spoke at length on . outage. Five other wires were what he called \the magic of damaged by the mishap in the . words\ and \how destabilizing sub-station. According to Jack Nicaragua led to the arms · Hill, director of campus race.\ operations, the primary wire The former CIA officer was \knocked out\ servi.ce to one involved in three major covert leg of the power lines. That leg operations, and was required to is the one which services such testify in front of Congress in · buildings as Humanities, the much the same manner as Lt. Library, Social Sciences, Hale Colonel Oliver North did with House. and Adlninistration regards to the operation that be buildings; - \'and · Fmc · arnl· · ·Ied;c:in .AngOllt iP -19-¥5.~St.Q.ekw:ell Davidson Dorms. Some (lther did not plead the Fifth Amell• buildings in that a:rea, such .as dment and is now one of the the fraternities, receive .power ,biggest critics of the CIA. from the street and were not His statement about the See POWER, p. 3 \magic or words\ revealed how May 19, 1988 Former CIA official John Stockwell. the CIA and the government in general rationalize covert and illegal activities to gain support of the Congress and the people of the United States. Stockwell pointed out that Nazi war criminals were recruited after World War Two to organize death squads. Also highlighted was the Reagan .Doctrine which President Reagan supports \low intensity conflicts\ around the globe, to put num- bers on them, 50 major covert and hundreds of minor · .Qpe;rations. needle,'' Clark said, nottng' that he was easily- offended by some questions. When one Se:ncatQr prcessed· him on hlimaii rigllts, Gol.\'~achev attacked: the U.S. prtOblems of homelessness and umm!>loymerit. I11part,Ciark said, that stems {Fom. a S0oviet perception that eq nates human arid economic rights; for- example, thai the right to s!lelter and a job is equ:<~ll~r im!)ortant as the right Cultural Unity Center Members Will Live In Bronner .House The drug problem in the United States can also be traced to the CIA. After every major covert operation, drug problems arose. Stockwell pointed out The French Con- nection, Golden Triangle, and most recently in Mghanistan, The Golden Crescent. In each case war supplies were flown into the countries and drugs brought out. For instance the operation \Mongoose\ ties Vice President George Bush with drug traffickers in Florida. After the trained killers were removed from their respective conflicts, they started · up drug trade in Florida. When they had a Washington official killed, Bush told them to leave the country to let things cool down. General Noriega reportedly has enough proof to expose George Bush. Oliver North gave drug traffickers his telephone number to help them avoid justice. to free spee~h. · One notable difference bet- ween the S()viet leader and. the U _g:. presidEnt, Clark said, is how Gorbachev relies more heavily up()n scientists as ad- visors, rat:lrer than economists or political e:x;perts. The vice president of the Soviet Academy of Sciences, a n<>ted · physicist and arms control exr-ert, was present at the mecetillgs and many Gorbaellev By FIONA SHUKRI Editor-in-Chief Last week Residence Life awarded Bronner House to the Cultural Unity Center, previously located on the top floor of Webster. This and the decision to determine next year's Smith House occupants on the basis of grade point average have been the source of some controversy. A letter to the editor appeared in last week's issae of the newspaper questioning the fairness . of the college's decision to grant the Cultural Unity Center Bron11er House although they hadn't petitioned for it. When questioned whether, instead, the Cultural Unity Center's petition for Smith should have been either rejected or accepted like any other groups' petition, Dean of Residence Life, David Wood stated that that was a \narrow view.\ He stated that diversity is one of the college's priorities, and his decision was an effort to helRpromote it. . · When asked about the decision process,. Wo()d wanted to \start at the begiooing.\ Both the Cultural Unity Center and the International , House are new organizations. Last . ye~r the two groups petitioned - . for residency. Residence Life decided that the Student Mfairs Committee should aid in determining the worthiness of the two petitions. One week before last year's spring housing lottery, the Student Affairs Committee recoinmE:'nded that Residence Life house the. two organizations. The Cultural Unity Center was given the top floor of Webster and the In- ternational House was given Webster's basement. The organizations were granted housing on an ex- perimental basis. This year the Student Affairs Colll!ilittee reviewed tbe two organizations \in terms of viability.\ They also de€ided to review the Smith and Bronner oo-ops, previously never done. Wood said that \the College\ determined that Smith House was more successful than · Bronner House. When asked to explain, Wood stated that Smith House makes a positive con- tribution to the college com- m.unity's consciousness. Bronner, he noted was founded on a pre-sorority campus to offer women an opportunity to live together and share cooking facilities. Since then four sororities have been founded, three that offer housing. Ap- parently it was determined that the· benefits that the Cultural Unity Center offered the campus outweighed those of an all-women co-op. There have also been some questions raised over the fairness of deciding the Smith Bouse tie ·.by grade point average. This year twQ. groups composed entirely of members of the class of 1989 applied. \We've never had a tie-breaker before,\ states Wood. He went on to explain that four years ago r-ules and guidelines were devised for petitioning and obtaining Smith House. \We never put in a clause t() determine action in the event of a tie.\ Wood claims that he heard ()£ the probability of two even groups applying this year, and therefore stated in the co-op interest meeting that two petitions resulting in a tie would be determined by cum, unless the two groups proposed an acceptable alternative method. When asked whether this would remain the method for • deciding co-op eligibility, Wood said that. he was considering alternative methods and that he welcomed alternative suggestiol)s. Most startling, however, was Stockwell's point on \how destablilizing Nicaragua led to the Arms Race.\ In painstaking detail, since 1980 countless people have witnessed the See FORMER OFFICIAL, p. 3 / . .. ' \ l.r ·.··~· •l ~... I 1!\.i ..,,~.;. .\\\\\\\' -·· ...... Photo of 1h~ Week: Our favorite time of year - Lottery. Do you have a place to hve next year? !'l : 1 ~ ' i . I ' ·, '' i . I . i '! '; I \ I \. •I ' ~ ~ I ·d :1

Page 2 CONCORDlENSlS, MliJ _19. 1 ._1?88 Kiss-and-Tell Books· Depict Reagan As A Joke By ALEX GARDNER In Ronald Reagan's eight years as President he has frequ-ently been criticized for being a President that many :Jeopl€ see as ore with little uas{) of the everyday goings on in the White House. However, R.e. lgan has been able to keep the majority of the American public behind him because .of his incredible ability as a communicator But now, not even \The great communicator\ can absorb the latest punches thrown athim by his former Chief of Staff Donald Regan. What makes it worse is thatthe wounds Ronald Reagan has suffered have been inflicted' by his friends, not his enemies. No Democrat and no \liberal reporter\ has dmwn as un- flattering a picture Of this President as his chosen How Intelligent is Intelligence Oversight? Ry DANIEL J. KENIRY News Editor The International Relations Club was proud to host two distinguished Political Science profe:ssors from Colgate University last week to lead a discussion on Congressional oversight of the intelligence community. The session was extremely informal, as Union profe:ssors exchanged anec- dotes with the two guests. Ro!Jert Shepard re\ceived his Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University. He has been a consultant to the House Foreigl'\ Affait-s committee. His soon-to- be-published book is entitled Superpower and Regional Power: ·The United States and Nigeria, 1960-1988. Daniel Franklin received his Ph.D. from the University of Texas. His Vi()rk has been published in Presidential Studies Quarterly and Congress and the Pre~lidency. He is currently contributing to the book PoiD.t Counterpoint. \1./ >~As YoU• Rot< '\ r\E. . to ,..IRAw-C•~,lb' = -\FF \ The two spoke on Friday afternoon, May 13. Professor Shepard cited six cases in American history where secrecy was used and the question still remains- why was our involvement not officially noted? His. examples were: Guatemala in 1954, Iran, the Bay of Pigs, Diem in Vietnam in 1963, Chile, and Angola in 1976. The Professor then set out with a number. of possibie ex- planations for keeping an ac- tiVity secret. It allows the members of the executive Secrecy hides operations that are morally questionable. The example here is the attempt in 1959 to make Castro's beard fall out. branch to operate as they wish with impunity. The example Shepard gave of this is the Iran- Contra scandal. Secrecy hides operations that are morally questionable. The example here AGENDA FOR: LATIN AMERICA DAY 11-12 pm 12-2 pm Prof. Meade: TUESDAY, MAY 26 Brought to you by SPAA Andean Music by Atehuelpa in Library Plaza Teach-in· on Latin America \The Drug Connection: Latin America and the U.S.\ Prof. Nichols: \US Foreign Policy in Latin America~ . Prof. Higgins: \Police and S~curity _in Latin A\!erica\ . . Karen Beatie: From the Soc1al Justice Caner: Democracy 1n 4-Spm 7-t2 pm El Salvadore?\ Slide show on Nicaragua in room 410 of the College Cneter.Dan Jones fran:' theP~ace and Justice Center \Getting Acquainted Wlh Nicauragua\. Video on a en liflder ,. Benefit Concert in the Rfnk featuring·General Eclectic, the Vestrymen, and the Twelfth of December NEWS ANALYSIS associates in government- David Stockman, Alexandet· Haig, Michael Deaver, Lar~y Speakes and now Re~an-m their books. The portr.att they paint is appalling: _· ?f a President almost devoid of curiosity, reflectiveness,. energy of purpose, a ri}an fall of his own preconceptions, yet easily manipulated and fooled by others. Donald Regan depicts Nancy Reagan as responsible. for a \shadowy distaff presidency\ that featured an astrologer influencing aH major scheduling derisions and the First Lady ruthlesly ()Fdering Cabinet members fired while the presiEient reacted passively. Nancy, the books says, was a much more determined and calculating person than her husband. It goes on to say that she relied upon a confidential adviser,. a mystic, whe claimed special expertise in religion, politics and even medicine, and whose influence is now a national scandal. Hegan .speaks angrily of the frustrations of dealing with the is the attempts in 19fi9 and 1960 to make Fidel Castro's hair and beard fall out. Secrecy is also used to hide actions undertaken for political gain, and the classic example of this is Watergate. A veil of secrecy often protects hidden motives, such as business interests. Or, it protects corrupt methods, as was the case in the Iran-Contra affair. Professor Shepard C()ncluded with a list of possible reasons why, if secrecy is invcked, it might be Legitimate. It is often used to \create the illusion that there are indigenous forces in a country that are opposing pro- Soviet or pro-communist .'for- : ces.\ This was the case With Guatemala and Iran. The element of surprise is another reason. The overthrow ()f Diem in Vietnam is ex:ernplary. Keeping secrets helps \squeeze a lot of power out of a small commitment of resources.\ It is · also used to hide possible violations of international law or even violations of ''imagined standards of international behavior.\ Lastly,· a possibly legitimate use of seCllecy is what Prof. Shepard calls \covert-overt\ activities. This is what the U. S. d()es in Afghanistan or Nicaragua. In astrologer. The astrologer was the reasQn Mrs .. Reagan did not attend the Reykjavik, Iceland, s11IllJIUt in 1986, he says. Regan Claims he warned tbe First Lady that the president was \going down in flames\ during the early Iran•contra disclosures but, based on the astrolQger's warnings, she refused to allow the president to discuss it with the news.media. In his four years as Secretary of the Treasury, Regan describes an administration that was rarely directed by the president. Regan says he never tnet With Reagan alone. \The president never told me wha:the believed or what he wanted to accomplish in the field of economics.\ Reagan was ''content to exercise the symbolic powers of his office- and his. astonishing skill in doing so was Qf course the very thing that made success possible.\ Aside from its revelations about astrology, the· Regan book has a so-what~else-is-new quality to it. David Stockman has told us how he hoodwinked this secrecy, \everybody knows, nobody can prove it.'' But this is useful because we can still not disclose the quantity, quality, number, and kind of weapons we might be usmg. Congressmen don't want to know because to kn()W is to be responsible. Reagan on economic policy, Michael ·Deaver has written about Reagan's excessive emphasis on the appearence of things. Larry Speakes· revealed that he concocted presidential quotes. And the Tower com- mission, after investigating the Iran-contra affair, reported that the president has a :management !1tYl~ so lackadasicaland laid .. back, that it's probably a fortunate thing the heavens were being con- sulted. Noone else was. And what about the lack of loyalty of the men WbQ wrote these kiss-and-tell books? They are now thought of by the White House and others as Judas-like traitors. Particularly Regan's book which not only ridiculed the First lady for her belief in the occult but because of the_ fact it was released on Mother's Day. But so what? Assuming the~ are telling the truth why should they be criticized for showing us the side of the president we rarely see until years after he has faded into the sunset. Congress. For domestic and foreign politics, there are ·also \police patrols and fire alann~ s.\ Police patrols take place periodically when the Congress looks at .policies and chekcs on them. Fire alarms are pulled by certain groups of people, and the Congress reacts by ad- justing the law. But in in .. telligence oversight, there are no police patrols; there's no \There is a legitimate neecl General Acco.unting Office, and for improved intelligence the committee staffs have oversight,\ said Professor higher security. There are no Daniel Franklin. But the fire alarms (except for oc· problem is thatthere is a lack of casionalleaks) because there's will in the Congress to carry o;ut nobody to pull the alarm. The this function. There are tW() Congressional Committees are reasons for this. First, dependent on the Agency itself. \CQngress is an ,t8th Centurv-: ~ Ofte~tjm.es, .according to institution , in the mo.derll - P r of e· s so r · F· f' an :It 1 in , world.\ It reacts to policy, Congressmen don't want to rather than initiating it itself. know.because ''to know is to be Secondly, Congressmen are . responsible.\ primarily interested in te- Franklin concluded by stating election. Concentrating on that ~h;e national interest is well intelligence oversight rather serve~ . by consulting the than pork barrel projects does Congr.ess. It builds bi-partisan not help the Congressman's suppo.rt, and the Congressmen possibility for another term in often· have something to con- office. tribut~, even if they do object. Prof. Franklin believes in the He 11opes that somehow con- legislative veto, which has been sultation can · be in- deClared unconstitutional by the stitutionalized, so that we can Supreme Court. A veto of this guarat)tee Congress is brought nature is designed to overturn fnto \the decision making an executive deciSion py the process. H<RE tr W.o.S, 1t1e \1!\~C>EsT ScooP oF T~E YEAR, Ato~OAtL HE HAo wAs A KE 1-lADSelilt 'rl-\E (At-\fRA-c:WEW . Ho.M e Mo!'l:r\-ls- A \;C> I T\E PA\R oF · LE~o~t~ON SrE~s · All[) • SUNScReEN ?\-\ o1oGRAY.\1cR TWo WeEKS ~GQ, Atio No.5. IllS ;~ t'bllt.fER 1\\.J!>T . 'fESTEtt])Ay. ~ ~\•l>U ..• ! .. -Hnf'1r. .•..•. • \ RnltVED; 1-1~: l'lfA!ltl> a.Ac:-Jr Tq 11'/S.' se~T. THE WATSON FOUNDATION IS LOOKING FOR A FEW GOOD PEOPLE. Thomas J. Watson believed that travel was educational, and that more. Widely travelled people would ma~e a better world. Jo this end. the Foundation which bears his name awards •$14,000 to graduating seniors from sm~ll liberal arts colleges, to finance a year of directed travel (a Wanderjahr). There are no strings attached, all yo1:1 .need is a sincere reason for wanting to ·go. Applications are due early ira Fall term, but to have a good proposal, you should start thinking and planningnow.lf you are .atall interested, or even just curious, please let Doug Klein in the Ecanomics Department know BE•FORE THE END OF THIS TERM (Soc. Sci. 109, x6056). • , • .• THE. PHILOSOPHY DEPARTMENT OF UNION COLLEGE wishe~ to announce that the Colloquium originally scheduled ft>r Friday, May 20~ 1988 has beea po;stponed until . . TUESDAY, MAY 24, 1988 AT 4:30PM IN HU 213 Professor Sven Peterson will speak on \Space Matter, and Mind-Blocks 11 \Suggl';Sted readings pertinent to the talk ar~ available in Humanities 215) Followed by· a r~eptioo in ht ci:Jillllanitics Faculty Lowtge John ' Meyer ·was officially elected Junior :. Repres~ntative ·to the Bo·ard of Trustees in the run-off election which took place tast Friday. Running.again.st Keith Bemis,· Meyer ·captured 63% of the 252 votes cast. · ,

t 'J.l'£0'1! 'I,~P.•:~ '-'' 1·'1',\1,11 ~I, \J ~;i\ •~t'\ ':H'(\t\M)'' C:ONCOil_DIBNSI.S~ May 19, 1988 Page 3 Faculty. andi :AAC 'Pass Finaliz~ed G.E.B. Proposal Former CIA -Official Barrages U.S. Policy Ab~oad By ELISE ·FOODY News Editor After months of hard work and exhaustive debating, the General Education Board's proposal has finally been ap- proved. Modificati:ons on the present Liberal Learning Requirements Progra;m ·have tieen accepted· by the Coll¢ge Faculty and members of the Academic Affairs Committee. The new proposal will debut in the Fall Term' of 1989 and will · only affect members after and · . in~luding the Class of 1993. · . T.t\e .most re~;ent contfi);Versy sutr~Junpj.ng, the pr,oposal .dealt . with the. ·SCierice r~.g\lir~ment. . 'l;'he .ne!i :.propo~a~. will require The most recent .contr.oversy .surrounding tb'e pr0posal dealt with the scienee requirement. students to take two· sCience courses, One of which would . include a laboratory in con- nection with the class. The other required science course will eitber count towards a major in the discipline or .have a stated math prerequisite. An .amendment was in- troduced regarding this plank of the plan that would have no stated math prerequisite and require at least ten hours of laboratory work. The amend- ment also pro.posed creating a broad science course. The amendment was rejected , by members of the G .E.B. an the basis that a.ccepting it would be to go against the pdnciple< of creating a strong, challenging science requirement. · The proposal will also require · students to ·take at least one mathematics course at the level of . difficulty now associated with Math 20. Two courses in History. will also be required of students and -these courses will be taken in sequence according to students' gepgraphic and chronological preferences. Students. ·must also take either Continued from .page 1 operations in Nicaragua and · • many bo~ks have b-een written, Reagan was quoted as ~aying \I'm a Contra\ a:~ul that he will not leave office With the San- danistas stm existing.\ However, the '•evil communist Sandanistas\ have made great strides to help tlle people. 2500 clinics, land reforms, rescinded the death .pellaltr. and most suprisingly frOtm a communist group, left the ec();nomy a free enterprise. · two courses in literature or one cour$e in. literature or one · course in literature and one ·course in.civilizati()n · F1nally 1 • students will have the· option of taking a seq:uence ~ of three courses in a classical or modern foreign language; or . · · they may take four courses in Asian Studies,. Latin American Stadies or Middle Eastern St11dies; or students may take · any Union Term Abroad ~ith the corresponding prerequisite. Now that the G.E.B.'s proposoal has been accepted, courses are being developed for future approval. Plans are also · being made to hire several new professors. . The A.A.C. unanimously passed the proposal at their . · meeting last Wednesday and all ·· faculty· members but two passed the proposal last week · as well. In an effort to '':put pressure on the government by r~pping · · the social and eco11omic fabric of the {Nicaraguan) society,\ the Contras, according to Stockwell, have gone on massive killiag sprees, been instructed in torture techniques, b()rribed churches, etc., all funded.by ,the CIA. The exact amount of money spent to fund the Contnis is close to one billion dollars. _ Extensive · J)ropoganda leads the American public to believe that Nicaraguaan-d many other third world nati<Jns are our enemies. St!Jckwell believes that our next war will be in Central America, and the build up of the American Military was no coinciden~Je in light of this. After at least seventeen years of covert actions,. it is surpising how critical John Stockwell is .of the CIA. St()ckwell appeared extremely bitter, but controlled his emotion iru a barrage of facts and figures agaiBst the Central Intelligence A.gen~y. _ .. _.,Ca:m.pu_s EnJoys . A ·:\'Day Without Power ·-SPECIAL TERM ABROAD S.tude-nts interested in participating in tile following, possibl~. \jlpecial event\ term . · · · abroaq.in the fall! of 198~ should makEi' their lro~erest known and begin to plan tlleir C:O!Jrses now. In the fall ter:rn of the year after next Union 111ay .offer. for a Continued from page 1 affected. , . Physical Plant inspe·cted the damaged wire and determined the wire could be repaired bY Splicing it. They approXimated· a return to power by 2:.00 p.m. that afternoon. This high voltage work requires special expertise; therefore,' . a professional contractor· was called upon. It was established by the contractor that,. ill fact, splicing bad to be done on the other wires affected by the main cable. This splicing process requires at least 11/2 to 2 hours. Another factor to be considered was that the splicing had to be done down in a manholes enough room for only one man to work efficiently. 'Thus, power was not restored to the buildings until late in the evening betwen the hours of · 8:30and 10:00 p .. m. Realizing ·the extent of the damage, Physical Plant was forced to cut the power to the rest of the~C!ltJlPUS. Around 7:30 a.m., buildings on the north side of campus lost ·power. Rich- mond House, N9rth College, Arts, Psychology, and. the College Center completed the down campus blackout. Upper ca~pus, however, was not JF ~ itz.il!I 1ll ~ lh JL rn riJ 0@ 111 l/))(/(j. IS COMING TOMORROW! affected. All of the buildings along Lennox street are powered by lines off that street. Their power was maintained that day. This is the same for Alumni Gyrn, Achilles Rink, and the Field House. The academic buildings on upper campus are fed power from a leg that was ll{laffected by the accident. This is not1he first incident to occur due to aged wires, but Hill reasoned that is it relatively difficult to estimate the life expectancy of these cables. He also stated that if there are any imperfections in the wires, problems, like this one, will arise wfth their usage. While Greek Week festivities continued as planned~ and,. Dining ·Services turned lunch and dinner into cook-outs, many students found it difficult to study in the dark that night. Evening classes, as well as some· during the day, had to be cancelled. However, by about 10:00 p.m. everytlling had, returned tonormal. · carefully selec.1ed .(Jro!.lp 12 to 15 students, a WIO -GERMANIES TERMABROA!D, -co:nducted for five weeks in caplt:alist \'lest Germany and five weeks in Marxist-Leninist East Germany.. ()f Particular interest to SilJDENTS OF ECONOMICS, POLITICAL SCIENCE, AND liiSTORY, The term will provideo an' exciting comparative exj>erience of life in \State .of art\ capi1atism in Western Europe and 'State of the Art\ Marxist Sod~lis111 In Eastern Europe. In s:tll>rt, students will experiem:e firs:tha!ld and In some depth the ,ohiel Ideological . dichotomy .of toda!''S wolld. The West German p~rtion of the . program will be located in the · University townof'!Marburg, where ·students wili be housed with families; and the East German pi>rtion will be- located in Magdeburg, l'ilith siudan~ housed in a university dormitory. Professor Warde will serve as the progr;:pn's resident director. All students with; even tentative interest s!Hould speak wiht Professor Warde a:; soon as possible (Tel. 6055; HU Building 211) and arrange their courses accordingly. \\fhe prerequisite for this special term abroad will be completion <>f three terms of German Lali1JUal)e Study or the equivalent.· THIS WEEK'S EVENTS: Thursday, May 19 S.p.m. S$016. Environmental Mo'Vie. 9 p.m. College Center Atrium. Cabaret. Friday, May 2.0 12:30 p.m. a p.m. 7, 9,11 p.m. Saturday, May 10 a.m. - 1 p;tn. · Naon•5 p.m. 5-7:30p.m. 7:30p.M. a p.m. Library Field. Delta GammaOI}fmpics. West .Beach/Library plaza~ Fitzllugh Ludlow activities College Center Aud. Fnm: GoOd;Moming Vietnam. (Also 5/21 and 5;22) 21 College Center Atrium. M~Vslc 1Jroup \Rapture\ Courtyard between Fox & [)aiJidson. ZBT .charity/band party. Dutch Hollow Restaurant Dutchmen's Night. Jackson's Gardens Earth Day Celebration. Events continue through Sur!Ciay 10 a;m. Memorial Chapel. Mohawk \!alley Chorus Concert. 8 p.m.-2 a.m. Sunday;. May 12:30-2:30 5-7:30 p.m. College Center Atrium. Nlglltclllb. 22 Special Olympics-Outdoor Track. Dutch Hollow Restaurant.. Duoohmen's Night. Clark Describes Gorbachev's New Foreign Policy; Doubts Perestroika Will Succeed Continued from page 1 the traditional Marxist idea of· class str.uggle needed adap- tation to the present times. ''He still believes in the struggle ... bnt knows that it's wise to treat workers ·well and pay them well,'' Clark said. Gor:bachev also breaks :from ideology, alth()ugh not from recent Soviet thought, in his belief that was is not inevitable. He believes in the idea of mutual security, that both snperpowers must consider each other'S view, because as long as either side believes its seclU\ity is being challenged, war is a possibility. Gorbachev also believes that neither country can afford nuclear war, despite. their separate and conflicting systems,.Clark said. He has some new thinking on foreign policy as well, ac- cording to Clark. He has decided. that \subsidi~ing the tbird World is not a- good in- vestment,\ Clark said, citing Vietnam, Angola, Ethiopia, and Mozambique as examples. The Soviet satellites, outside of Eastern Europe, are all \basket cases\ economically, Clark said. In fact, dropping Vietnam would serve his purpose of improving relations with China, who views Vietnam's hostilities in Kampuchea as a threat to regional security. Gorbachev would like to . reduce the amount of regional conflicts., such as those in Central America and In- dochina,. but, Clark added, that \Gorbachev is not about to walk away, to disengage from other areas ... you can guarantee that they will do what's in tbeir best interests.'' Moving away from those conflicts and their economic burdens would allow tlie Soviets to concentrate on perestroika, but Clark dcoubts that Gor- bachev's reforms will succeed. \There's so much history and so many pe()ple to convince.\ Clark cited the soviet Union's . lODO-year autocratic history and that the reforms would hurt the very Soviet bureaucrats that are supposed to implement them: \They're not opposed to the ideas-it ·just hurts their way of life.\ Clark dismissed many U.S. officials' fears .of perestroika's success leading to a more powerful Soviet Union. \He probably can't succeed at this (perestroika)... but ies hypocritical not to welcome it in the Soviet Union if we want it capitalist-type economy and political reform) everywhere else.\ \It's inconceivable that they will become such a power that they will overcome the West,\ Clark added, ''and ... we would be better off if they had a better standard of living.'' Over the past ten years, he said, the Soviet economy has actually had a negative growth rate if one discounts vodka sales and the increase in oil prices. In addition, the average life expetancy for males is. getting lower. \We shouldn't overestimate our ability to influence perestroka,\ Clark said. \We could make some difference, but not much. They'll succeed or fail on their own.\ Looking forward to the sunnnit conference, Clark said \Gorbachev has decided that he needs a better relationship with the U.S., and... he is willing to give up even more for a START agreement (strategic arms reduction).'' He will ''deal'' now, because Gorbacbev realizes that any treaty is more likely to receive . Senate ap- proval if President Reagan negotiates it. Even if the Republican-dominated Senate's vote is after tbe elections, Clark said, \Dukakis could say to them (the Senate), 'This is Reagan'streaty. \' FINANCE COMMITTEE CLUB BUDGET STATUS q.uB OPENING BALANCR 1988-1989 REQI:JEST AMNI!StY JNT $l ARTS C1.UB $l AMOUNT ALl:.OCATE> AWARE $2..470 $190 BIG BRO/SIS $10,229 $5,873 BIOO..UB $3,261 $1,304 BLAS $16,235 $3,000 CABAREI' $l SO CAMPHOLLYWOOD $3;304 $2,120 CAMPUNION $23,500 $19,000 CHEERLEADERS S22!5 9 $1,515 OJBM CLUB ;)::llS $80 CIRa.B K $5,19.3 $~ ,76!j CONCERT BAND $5,400 $3,000 CONCERT COMM $30,500 $30,000 CONCORDIENSIS $33,779 $29,600 DANCR Cll1B $850 S6SO DIITCH PIFBRs $1,300 $560 ECO CLUB . SO SO EQUESTRIAN a.uB $6,914 $4,420 FENCING O..Ul! $5,630 $3,338 FILM COMM $14,900 $14,900 FlTl.HUGH $l $l FRENCH CLUB $1,315 S17JJ FRISBEE CUJB $1,550 $950 GAMING ASSOC $1,000 $430 GARNEr $33,525 $32,100 G~MIN~TRELS $1,020 $435 GERM~ CLUB ST70 $435 GOSPEL BNSE.MJILB $2,665 $1 ,CJ70 HOMECOMING . $2,000 $2,000 IDEAUST $l Sll JD<1 $7,600 $3,740 IRC $Ci,64S $3,195 ISU $3.640 $2,635 JAzZENSBMBLB $4,535 $2,735 KARATECLUB SO Sll . MA'IH<:LUB SO SO MOUN'll!BANKS $11,755 $10,000 OUfJN~(l.l]B $4,1!19 $1,320 PEP BAND $2,520 $800 PHILOSOPHY CLUB $2,400 $290 PHOTOCLUB $3,200 $1,002 PRE-HBALni $3,753 $1~040 PRE-LAW SO $1 PSYCH S4,6S4 $l.S34 ROWING ASSOCJAITON $11,690 $6,3€0 RUGBY· MENS ~185 $4,720 RUGBY· WOMENS $1,!170 S1,S30 S.P.A.A. $9,950 SO · SAJlliO Q;UB $1,S65 $9()1 SCUBA CLUB $715 ~ SBNlOR FLING $2,500 SSOO SKI a..UB (ALPINE) SO SO SKI Q,Ul! (N()RDIC) $2,496 $2,496 SOC AJ.TCOMM S22,CJ75 $9,200 • SOC COMM $10,110 S.S,S30 SOCIBTYPHYSICS $3,006 $1,00 SPANISHCLUB SO S1 SP&.Ki!RS FORUM $50,471 $77,886 SmAKINOHANDS $2,815 $2,785 S'l'ONilBOAT SO Sl S'JlJDllNT AC!'IV $14,000 $10000 STUDBNTFORUM ' UUNIVTRAVLd.UB $U,~ $~ W:aJC $1,125 SIUS mw~xoo~~~axm~~----~------~-----s-~~7~~L----------~--~~ TOTALS: S491,Sl4 S-.100 A. 'VE~AGES: $'1,426 $4)25 ,\ . I

·Page< 4 C:ONCORBJ'ENS1S/ 'Maj 19; ·1988 FEATURES Talk of The Town Interviews and Photos by Frank Fitzgerald Co.ncordiensis recently did not ask. a question, instead we gave an answe_r: The Nott Me.mo:rial .. \What potential national landmark, located on Union College campus, does not serve peanut butter and spam. sandwiches?\ Edward '88 \What's the most unusua·l building on campus?\ · Nadia Duvllalre 'SO \What bUiding· served as the setting for Alice On Acid.ln Wond(Jr/and?\ tarry Festa '89 \What will cost $5 millioA plus to renovate just se twenty kids in tights can prance aro~;~nd it?\ Br1.,1ce Pennypacker '90 \What •looks like a giant?\ Andrew Collins '91 .. Get Ready .. . Get Set .... Go!!! Twenty teams of Olympians are registered to participate in the loth Annual Delta Gamma Olympic Games, to be held on Friday, May 20, at 1 :30, on rugby field. The sisters of Delta Gamma wish the lucky 200 participants the best of luck and hope that everyone else will come out to cheer them on. · F,IT.ZHU'GH 'LUDLOW D:AY Our Traditional. Non-Aicoh·olic Event. Let's keep the tradition alive jn '88. Have fun without · · alcohol. Senioritls ByLEATA.JACKSON Senioritis is a column !lesigned to bring together annoUncements of particular interest to members .of the cl~ss of '88. • +You should have picked up tickets for commencement This represents double the number of teams in last year's Olympics, and four times the expected number of par- ticipants in the 1981 Olympics. This event is Wlique to the · Epsilon Alpha chapter .of Delta Gamma, and has been a success since it began in 1979. The proceeds of raffle tickets, sold by both sisters and Olympians, will be donated to the Delta Gamma Foundation, in support of aid to the blind and ·~ sight conservation. The Delta ~ Gamma Foundation will a: disperse the proceeds among o their philanthropies, wbich ~· include: The National ::! Association for the Prevention ~ of Blindness, The American ~ Foundation for the Blind, and ~,~, The Blind Children's Center. u today!! · · +If you have received a job offer or been accepted in a graquate pr()gram, please .. checJt i:n With Lori Rodrigue in the CDC. +The CDC will be send,ing out sqrveys to seniors: about what w~ are 4oing next year. Please take two seconds to fill it out. Do you realize we are the last class to remember: . ~when Debbie Eisenbeng played her teeth at Cabaret. ·, -,.parties that were broken up· by security at 4 (as opposed to 1 or 2) .. ~keg parties in dorm bathro\)mS. · --only 24 m()re days ... ' iisn't that ~pecial!\ _ ... .. Word of :the Week Over forty prizes, which have .~ . been donated by local c: businesses, will be awarded to 00 => the· owners of winning raffle tickets during the Olympics. While last ·year's'profits totaled $890, almost double the amount raised in 1981~ this year promises to be yet more sue\ cessful. 198~ Truman Scholar Scharn Robinson, 1Ei88 lale Boulevard, Schenectady, ·New York, 12304, rece1ves her award from Dr. Elmer B. Staats, the former Comptroller General·of the United States and Chairman of the B?ard o_f tile Truman Scholarship Four~dation, in ce·remonies at the Truman Library, lnde.pendence, M1ssoun. Suraday, May 8. Robinson, a student at Union College, will receive a max1mum of $7,000 per year .for up to four years of education leading to a career in public service. ·Lax.atlve Def.: LaCrosse season is over Wonderful· Washington By THE STUDENTS ON THE TERM IN WASHINGTON D.C. 1988 We arrived in Washington attheCapltolllill Ready and waiting were Anuj and Neville Professor Brown was there in his suite We all found our rooms, which were smoldering with heat The night started out at the Hawk and Dove Just one of the many bars we know and love The ladies (<llris and Linda) wcr~t out wilh E-Z-R-A To i.heir mild surprise, they found the barto be gay Kevin displays his talents as the international aid He acts as the interpreter for all the foreign maids We wish you could see Caruso's guido shoes At night after pwnping iron he's been known to make his moves . , Cohn is here, he still furrows his brow When it comes to dealing on women, he surely knows bow I guess you're all wondering what's doing wilh.Jed Don\ worry Jill, he's g6l a single bed Kristin is still talking, God knows she never stops Her seven and a half hour monologue just can't be topped Usa is a reception givers nightmare She eats as much as she can, she doesn\ care And you should see Helene when she's out of her head All the bald fat men want to shut her bed Worting a 9-Slife is not for Kris She's been knoliMl to wander from the office, not tO be missed Dave Kasow is also rarely here He'd ralher be !tt'G W •. drink~g some beer Stephanie is OUl' bubbly tour guide · Always krtowillg which Metro to ride Risa is the re<:e:ption king Pretending she·~ sc:rncone else she need not pay a lhing Ellen decided to give the reception game a try But when she·~ld \I'm Leslie Kane\ slle got caught in a lie Kate went 011tdancmg.and met a guy named Hartk He was from tile Naval Academy but of a low rank Sarah has been known to bum some toast And has been &een hanging out with,on.e of lhe hosts Robbie needs:mis sleep because he's not at his best But. he's had a ]lroblem imding a place to rest When Tan's tenqJer abounds Watch out be!311se pots and pans getthrown around Suzanne doesn•tlike the popcorn on the floor She's ready tc,k[ck her sloppy roommates out lhe door. Cliff bas becane our friend and not our foe Does he workforthe ClA-we all are dying to know Beware because we will be back realsoon · We're oominBDP for Camp U and we'll be trashed by noon While you're \V'()rldmg hard, we're havingf~ We must say gm<lbye, for our poem is now done. Reprinted from TIME Magazine May 2, 1988. THE CAMPUS SCRAMBLE JO.RECRUII \One boy in Suburban New York with 1 ,220 SA Ts and three varsity letters was · wait-listed by all four _colleges he tried, including Schenectady's Union .. .'' ' . LIP SYNC & AI:R BAND· - CONT.EST Camp Union Weekend If interested contact Box 1403 Great·Prizes Given! Sponsored by the Social Alternatives Committee 7 •

- CONCORDJENSIS,. . M.ilJ' 19~ 1988 Page'S FEATURES, SensorY Overload By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editcn• They boarded up my window today. Those crafty fix it men, they've done it again. Now I'll never know lf the- siln is out, hell, I could be missing valuable uv's. Handel is playing hiS familiar W~ter Music and all I hear is Woof, woof, tweet, tweet, Woof. The light over my head is bouncing · ftom its suspended position in space. It makes a honeycomb pattern on the ceiling which oscillates with every }Jeat. That damn thing never stops moving. TWo rings; off campus don't answer it! Wait ! Could be Dominoes we 1 d best check. \Pizza for a M:r. Floyd Stone1'' · \Yeah.'' ·~Five ntlnutes<'' · ·. ·\Good.'' · . ~ ' What am I thinking, I'm in no shape to leave this room. These tunes are driving me .crazy. ''Turn it Up! ! \ Zappa now belts out the lyrics at peak volume. ••The torture never stops.\ Moon Unit, not far behind, cries in pain, she;s being a good backup. \Rats and snot and vomit on the floor.\Sounds a bit like this room. They boarded up my damn window today. Pmnot sure if they were trying to keep the oUtside from coming in or just me from going out. Someone is screaming in the hall. ·\Pizza!\ We eat now. In no more than three minutes we've managed to inhale the thin disc. · \SODA! t\ The life saving . liquid is passed through the door to our clutching hands. Now -We drink. Gulll,· burp, gulp; burp. Abhh. Outing Club Photo qf the Week: Last weekend the club wen-t ,· .. caving in t,he Adirond~cks. We explored:·Tales Caves, which still had bizarre ice and frost form.ations from winter. C ()~gratulations to. the Orientation Advisors 1988 Edwin M. Adeson' Peter R. Amato · · Benjamin: M. Auslander Amy L. Baboff · · Peter T. Belden Diane M~ :B:ruschetti · · Stanley A Kitzinger E·lizabeth W. Landsiedel Michael A. Lenotte Donna ~· Lazendorf LinaL~ung Perry Scott Levy ·' Richa.td J:Capriola ·. ii:Od.d.w: Co~.or~i~ · .. · :. :Patir~c!t 'J ... :d:.nnl!tingha:m Robert A. Dan~iger · Helene J:)e Vries · Debra M. Dick~:r · · ·! Robett M~·Lichten Charl~s ~L .. MeGa vern Chtisdp.e. M .. Mechler Eric B. Miller Stephen Miller · Robert J. Donohue Carter H. Edgertor1· Pamela J.~:Fied,ler· .,~:.. Susanne H. Frantangel<? Neha J. Gajjar :Ma.rnje L. Gia:rnbruno . Amy B. Goldstein · Philip S. Hess • Christine E. H~mg · Arthur :S. H uds()r'l Laura Iacoviello jennifer ~zo. , StacV.ey 1. Jabs · Eli:zabetlLA: J'Osephs.On: Brad N. Mondschein Gerarld D. Moon LeJ;lie S. Morris George P. Motyka Kristin Nelson . Ashley M. Oliver Elliot I_>. Olschwang Leslie A Orner Robin L. Palladino Dri$ten Peterson Tammy· M. Richardson Stacey J. Rosenfield S~9tt M. Russell Kristen A. Santos ·Valerie J. Sarwin -. If only George Washington could see us now. I'll tell yoa this damn board ain't goma last the night. Things will be hop- ping later. We may eve11 open the door. Maybe a woman will joiii the rank:s anct add some new ideas to oW' dull night. Women are such bl\ight lights. Perhaps we will motivate and go to the Gardens, think Earth Day. The :dog ~is really w:ondering if he'J:L e¥ef' escape this sensory overlQad. His eyes are forever :watching the door: They boarded qp this damn window, I can't stand the wood staring me in the shoe, I mean face. Someone turns 011 the light, the WHITE light. \Ahh! ! Turn that off.'' Earth or Bust! Earth Day Info. We broke down the :board tonight. The release was too much to deal with. TlJis was definitelys.ensory overloa:d. · What is ea:rthday? Earthday is a day set aside to appreciate the earth and to gain a bettei\ .o., understanding of tbe world in => which we live. Our goal is to ~ educate and to jun generally ~ become more aware. Earthday :z is an effort to place ·emphasis on ~ pertinent environmental issues ~ in a positive and upbeat man- ner~ Yesterday a fiiie time was bad by all at \Earthspeak\ in Memorial Ch·apel. If you missed it, and even if you didn't, here is a schedule of the rest of the week's events. Please attend! Not only might you pick up something that you didn't know before, but great fWl and a good time are assured. Tell us your story - Write for Features · Congratulations to .th,e W,in,r~er. ·of the Phi. Sig - Racquetball ~ a (.) Tourname111 Scott Danziger Dump_ on 'EEJrl:hD~ $.~---~---;..~:_~. -hi.£r£ will be. a.. C LO THfS 6DX LiL th c m u.J1. oJ.Q do..J] +PcM·'f· F=i..o_· if-\. \\\'-/-vR Ht..l ht:\tJdlj \--\ EARTH DAY ***ThuX\sday May 19*>~<* lunch time- info. table 12:30 - campus recycling 4:30 - Earth Day Tree Planting. Meet by the Idol. - Master of ceremonies: President Morris 4:45 - Public Test of what pollutants may lurk in our \brook . that l;loumls~\ · 8:00 - Earth Day Movie: Koyanasgatsi. Sponsored by Earth Day and Film Committees. Free admission. SSOI6. ***Saturday, May 21*** 10:00-12:00 - Morning Trash Bash in Steinmetz Park on Lenox Rd~ Meet at College Center. Picnic following pick-up. 10:00 p.m.'- Late Night Earth Entertainment on the new College Center back patio. incl: folk singing, Earth chanting, Earth spirituals. Earth wisdom, Earth poetry, Earth dancing, star gazing ... Aftcrwards: All-campus sleep-out between Richomd and West. Games to be played, fun to be had for lhe whole family, more star gazing ... ***Sunday, May 22***EARTH DAY 9:00- Sunrise Breakfast 11:00 - Ed<ly and his African Drummers do a campus-around Earth March and more Earlh Dancing. High Noonisll - Ellie Marshall (formerly of \Jonathan Richman and the MOdern Lovers\) singing and playing for the EARTH. \Livestock as opposed to \Woodstock.\ All on West Beach. Jld ISfiN' G.y The L8 -~ - f:itJ.. 6 j1 I. 00 Is LHO) FOOd ()..Jill be Sold - •) H\'m'b\\3~rs •) HQtJos_s 31\Jefl ( Je~r)\~ 'I'\'(~Ifl 1.1) (()<.<\ • (of A ~flffle Tic.hd!'> Still .A-1 fl1l .-:d>l~ k8:f Suoher. 0ol1f'l-kd by Beffer Hodv l:!odrs .. ~\'~ \ '· -!'·~··::; .. ~:. ~~'::. 0 b :c a.. ~ u: ' ,,, i

Page 6 · CONCO.RDI'ENSIS~ Me4y 19, .198'8 . . ~---- - - . . ' ~---~~~ . FEATURES Hersh and Robe mak.e their choice. About the Cultural Unity Center By CRAIG SUMM,ERS I have become very aware ·of the discontent that has arisen due to the relocation of the Cultural Unity Center ( Cl,JC) to Br.onner House. I Should state · that I am indeed sympatheticto those students whe feel that they have iost out in some fashion. I would Hke to take this opportunity to clarify the purpose of the cue. The cue was ·established to diversify and, ultimately, enri.ch the Out To Eat With Hersh and Rob·e cam,pas. For too long, Afro· Americans and Hispanic students were relegated to dorm rooms and . vacant classrooms in order to convene -and achieve a sense of racial identity. The unfamiliar at- mosphere of a predominantly white school sent several minorities into cliques. Minorities Were involved minimally in Union's ·ex- tracurricular life, The cue was established in oFder to rectify this problem by providing a central meeting and loW1gilig location. Having access to the CUC, minorities W()uld ideally cultivate senses of consolidation and pride. Subsequently, we as minorities would be more compelled to interact, not only among the minor:ity popUlation, but also the non-minority students. BLAS, minorities 11ave begun to participate in the campus community. BLAS has eo- spon~()red functions such as the Gwendolyn. Brooks reading, and the Dyane Harvey concert. BLAS produced the \It's Like This\ cabaret, as well as linked with Mountebanks to produce Eugene O'Neill's \All God's ChillunGot WINGS.\ BIAS had the Candle Light Vigil with SP AA, and the Assemblyman Arth11.· Eve talk in conjunction with the Career Development Center. These and BLAS's other activities were de.signed to enrich the campus li£e at Union as well as create a social en- vir«~ntr.lent where racial· lines could converge. Further, BLAS solicits :ideas, participation, and-or membership from all students--minority or non- min()rity. Our Ten Favorites (in no particular order) By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Our Ten Favorites (in no particular order) 1. Papa GaUos-228 Washington Ave., Albany, 436- 0017. . The best pizza in the Capital District. Unbelievable calzones- ·huge, fresh and Hersh's all- time favorite. Authentic run- down pizza parlor atmosphere. 2. I Love N.Y. Pizza--469 State St., Schenectady 370.,()474. Why did it take so long for good pizza tc come to Schenectady? Great veal parmigiana sandwich, friendly employees, and they deliver to Union. 3. Executive Suite-108 Jay St., Schenectady, 374-3107. Our favorite \nice\ restaurant for the past four years. 4. Sutter's Mill & Mining Co.- 1200 Wastern Ave., Albany, 489- But still want to live on campus? 4910. Our favorite place to eat like pigs. Excellent cheese fries, wings and burgers. Ask for Julie and tell her Hersh and Robe sent you. 4. Homestyle Pizza-Union St. and Van Antwerp Rd., Schenectady, 372-7270. Not for pizza. Great hot and cold sandwiches. Outstanding homemade breads. Take-out only. 6. Jack's Oyster House-42 State St., Albany, 465-8854. Excellent service, qu~lity food, fairly expensive. Char- ming Old-Albany atmosphere. 7. Gershon's Delicatessen-1600 Union St., Schenectady, 393- 0617. Monstrous triple-decker sandwiches. A mecca for displaced New Yorkers. 8. Brandywine Diner-970 Emmett St., Schenectady, 393- 0617. Good food at any time. Try the cinnamon rolls. Top-notch, thick french fries. Didn't Get Hou~ing? Are you .experienced with scissors? Do you enjoy working with tape? Do you want to be on top of the movie schedule? The Confordiensis Advertising Staff is searching for devoted, hard-work- ing, dependable, energetic, fun- loving, honest, dexterous, students for the next school year: For A. Good Tim.e Call X6155! 9. Bruegger's Bagel Eakery-29 N; Pearl St., Albany, 463-4961. Stuyvesant Plaza Gllilderland, 432-3579. And other locations. Delicious, fresh and cheap. 10. The Old Daley IBll--499 2nd Ave., North Troy 235-2656, The Raindancer Steak Parlour-Route 3(), Amster- dam, 842-2606. Tremendous steaks and prime ribs-take your pick. '. The fact is that through Finally ,Jt is important to note that the cue is a theme house that highlights· the Afro-· American and Hispanic cultures. Any student interested ·in coming to the center is welc<lmed. Again, BLAS en- courages non-minority mem- bersbip. Once a member, each student would be eligible to pattieipate in the BLA$ housing lotteey. We hope, with the CUC, to begin to make greater strides an illterracial harmony, by ~working, recreating and.or living together. Smart Food :For , · · · · Smart People By JASON MESHNICK Commentaries Editor There is a product on the market today which is .prepared to solve -an of life's nagging problems, or at least a few of them. The product is 'smart- food, the cheesy tasting popcorn in the zany black and yellow package. If you're looking for a swn- mer internship in Boston, or Dther Northeastern locations, Smartfoods, Inc. is your an- swer. They are looking for \energetic intelligellt, cheese popcorn addicts who desire an educational, -resume building, marketing experience, while having fun.'' Only unpaid positions are available, bat interns are eligible for a lifelong SMARTFOOD and the Social Alternatives Committee presents the First Annual HARDEST LEGS CONTEST open to males ami females Winner receives 60 bags of SMARTFOOD each month for a year. Call Steff ani for details. x4265 Event to be held during Camp Union supply of Smartfood. Interested applicants may call or write Sue Hoffman, Smart foods, .Inc .. , 259 Cedar Hill Street, Marlborough, Mass. 01752 (617} 481~6. Wit1;t Father!s Day just around the corner, JFm sure that . you're all frantically worried about what to get Dad besides the usual Union sweatshirt. For only $17.95 Dad will receive hal£ dozen four-ounce bags of all natural Kentucky popcorn, a pair of all natural, all cotton, Smartfoods b!>xer shorts (size 32, 34, 36, 38), and a per- -sonalized gtft card. The Smartfoods Giftpack is available directly from Smartfooc:ls, Inc. and is sure to please him. Please send a check fo $17.95 along with pad's boxer shorts size and a personalized no.te to : Attn. Father's Day Gift Pack, 25!1 Cedar Hill Street, Marlborough, Mas.s. 01752. Yes; even you are eligible for a year long supply .of smart food,

Page fi CONCORDIENSIS, May 19, 1988 FEATURES LU 8 a: ~ I VJ a: w I 10 0 0 iE I Hersh and Robe make their choice. About the Cultural Unity Center By CRAIG SUMMERS I have become very aware of the discontent that has arisen due to the relocati0n of the Cultural Unity Center (CUC) to Bl'onner House. I should state Out To Eat With Hersh and Robe · that I am indeed sympathetic to those students who feel that they have i0st out in some fashion. I wolilld like ta take this opportunity to clarify the purpose of the cue. The cue was established to diversify and, ultimately, enrich the campus. For too long, Afro- Americans and Hispanic students were relegated to dorm rooms and vacant classrooms in order to convene and achieve a sense of racial identity. The unfamiliar at- mosphere of a predominantly white school sent several minorities into cliques. Minorities were involved minimally in Union's ex- tracurricular life. The cue was established in order to rectify tl:lis problem by providing a central meeting and lounging l()cation. Having access to the cue, minorities would ideally cultivate senses of consolidation ami pride. Subsequently, we as minorities would be more compelled to interact, not only among the minority population, but also the non-minority students. BLAS, minorities 11ave .I:Jegun to participate in the .campus community. BLAS has co- sponsored functions such as the Gwendolyn Brooks reaciing, and the Dyane Harvey concert. BLAS produced the \[t' s Like This\ cabaret, as weU as linked with Mountebanks t(J produce Eugene O'Neill's \AU God's Chillun Got WINGS.\ BIAS had tlle Candle Light Vigil with SP AA, and the Asseinblyman Arthu..· Eve talk in Wljunction with the Career Development Center. These and BI...AS'sother activities were desi~ned to enrich the campus life at Union as well as create a social en- vironment where racial lines could converge. Further, BLAS solicits ideas, participation, and-or membership fl'OJil all students--minority or non- minority. Our Ten Favorites (in no particular order) By ANDREW HERSHAFT and BILL ROBBINS Our Ten Favorites (in no particular order) 1. Papa GaHos-228 Washington Ave., Albany, 436- 0617. The best pizza in the Capital District. Unbelievable calzones- -huge, fresh and Hersh's all- time favorite. Authentic run- down pizza parlor atmosphere. 2. I Love N.Y. Pizza-469 State St., Schenectady 370.0474. Why did it take so long for good pizza tc come to Schenectady? Great veal parmigiana sandwich, friendly employees, and they deliver to Union. 3. Executive Suite-lOB Jay St., Schenectady, 374-8107. Our favorite \nice\ restaurant for the past four years. 4. Sutter's Mill & Mining Co.- 1200 Wastern Ave., Albany, 489- I But still want to live on campus? 4910. Our favorite place to eat like pigs. Excellent cheese fries, wings and burgers. Ask for Julie and tell her Hersh and Robe sent you. 4. Homestyle Pizza-Union St. and Van Antwerp Rd., Schenectady, 372-7270. Not for pizza. Great hot and cold sandwiches. Outstanding homemade breads. Take-out only. 6. Jack's Oyster Hollse-42 State St., Albany, 465-8854. Excellent service, quality food, fairly expensive. Char- ming Old-Albany atmosphere. 7. Gershon's Delicatessen-1600 Union St., Schenectady, 393- 0617. Monstrous triple-decker sandwiches. A mecca for displaced New Yorkers. 8. Brandywine Diner-970 EIIllllett St., Schenectady, 393- 0617. Good food at any time. Try the cinnamon rolls. Top-notch, thick french fries. Didn't Get Housing? Are you experienced with scissors? Do you enjoy \\'V\'orking with tape? Do you want to be on top of the movie schedule? The Concordiensis Advertising Staff is searching for devoted, hard-work- ing, dependable, energetic, fun- loving, honest, dexterous, students for the next school year: For A Good Time Call X6155! 9. Bruegger's Bagel Bakery-29 N. Pearl St., Albany, 463-4961. Stuyvesant Plaza Guilderland, 482-3579. And other locations. Delicious, fresh and cheap. 10. The Old Daley Inn--499 2nd Ave., North Troy 235-2656. The Raindancer Steak Parlour-Route 30, Amster- dam, 842-2606. Tremendous steaks and prime ribs-take your pick. The fact is that through Finally, it is important to note that the cue is a theme house that highlights the Afro- American and Hispanic cultures. Any student interested in coming to the center is welcomed. Again, :BLAS en- courages non-minority mem- bership. Once a mernller, each student would be eligible to participate in the BL.AShousing lottery. We hope, with the CUC, to begin to make greater strides an interracial harmony, by working, recreating and-or living together. Smart Food For Smart People By JASON MESHNICK Commentaries Editor There is a product on the market today which is prepared to solve all of life's nagging problems, or at least a few of them. The product is 'smart- food, the cheesy tasting popcorn in the zany black and yellow package. If you're looking for a sum- mer internship in Boston, or other Northeastern locations, Smartfoods, Inc. is your an- swer. They are looking for \energetic intelligent, cheese popcorn addicts who desire an educational, resume building, marketing experience, while having fun.\ Only unpaid positions are available, but interns are eligible for a lifelong SMARTFOOD and the Social A Iter n a ti v e s Committee presents the First Annual HARDEST LEGS CONTEST open to males and females Winner receives 60 bags of SMARTFOOD each month for a year. Call Steff ani ior details. x4265 Event to be held during Camp Union supply of Smartfood. Interested applicants may call or write Sue Hoffman, Smartfoods, Inc., 259 Cedar Hill Street, Marlborough, Mass. 01752 (617) 481-4866. With Father's Day just around the corner, I'm sure that you're all frantically worried about what to get Dad besides the usual Union sweatshirt. For only $17.95 Dad will receive half dozen four-ounce bags of all natural Kentucky popcorn, a pair of all natural, an cotton, Smartfoods boxer shorts (size 32, 34, 36, 38), and a per- sonalized gift car<d. The Smartfoods Giftpac k is available directly from Smartfoods, Inc. and is sure to please him. Please send a check fa $17.95 along with Dad's boxer shorts size and a pers<malizednote to: Attn. Father's Day Gjft Pack, 259 Cedar Hill Street, Marlborough, Mass. 0.1752. Yes, even you are eligible for a year long supply of smart food. '! \ I 1 \.! ' \ .. l :i

I I \ ,.~.otto!}~·~ .::~~ ' ''&.(«· ~.'9t:\'·1-t&-o't t\'\i{;.:.t.'\·r:~·\tJ\f.i\t:~\'' CON'CORDIE'NSIS,, May 19, 1988 BOSTON.·· . : . ARE YOU w:oRKlNG OR LIVI·NG IN . . BOSTON THIS SUMMER OR NEXT • YEAR .. I AM LOOKING FOB. ROOM:MATES. Contact To-dd :Harder 386-4107 Box 712 Page 7 -. ~- ! •. . .... $, ...... ~~--~:~~; ...... . ., tJJistordiensis . . 1S . coming! lOth ·week ~yatenOir Brett Mt~l~>fsky _ Taj Mulukatla Lisa M!il~ellj'liano J h·· ·M~ · . A?. :n ....... eyer . MaJtina Moore D~bbie Mulford . GarryPastizzo Patrice .. Prusko CONGRATULATIONS to those· seniors who were able . ·to name all the members of their Orientation Group: LeAta Jackson Mary O'Sullivan Emily SooHoo Ethan ·stour You have all won PIZZA PARTIES for your Orientation '84 Groups. DETAILS TO BE ANNOUNCED. TermAb:tUld.AltenutteBesidentAdvisor Todd Adelman Jeff T..Jberman Leslie B. Sliapiro Christopher P. Sheridan Elizabeth 0 .. -~rk~n Erie T. Starck ·· PeU1r ·M.· Viilerio THERE WILL BE A ·MANDATORY MEETING OF ALL ST;UDENT REUNION WEEKEND WORKERS ON TUESDAY, MAY 24 AT 4:30PM IN THE COLLEGE CENTER., ROOM 203. IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND, CALL SHARON AT 6168, THANK YOU. ·.UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERs· FORUM presents . STAND;UP COMEDY AT ITS BEST I AS SEEN ON TV: GILBERT GOTTFRIED BEVERLY HltLS COP n THE COSBY SHOW FRIDAY, 8:00. p.m. PRICE: . ' $1.00 MEMORI.AL CHAPEL l i ;I l \ . i \

• , • • ~ 1'), .p 'l ... r jl[ t 1l ' '• '' '• > .. CONCORDIENSIS, May 19, 1988 BOSTON ARE YOU WORKING OR LIVING IN BOSTON THIS SUMMER OB NEXT YEAR. ,. ,· l' -· . ~. ;1\,11:'''''•1:• l> ••• : '· . ·' ' • ,!;;@'.;\l1;:«~·~11~k~~~&:,,,,<' , .. :.· ... , · DaVid J: Adlnom·· u Rich Aqui:naldo · · . .: :·E~beth Berliner · Meg Cocozzo ··· Naney c~nway Tonia Ellsworth Robert Itarvey Aaron Katz I AM LOOKING FOR ROOMMATES. Contact Todd Harder 386-41 07 Box 712 Kyle G. King ZBI Nisith Kumar Mark Land.rio Kenya Lenoir tDistordiensis • 1S coming! 1Oth Week Brett Malofsky ~raj Mulukutla Lisa MereugUano John Meyer Martina Moore Debbie Mulford Garry Pastizzo Patrice Prusko Mark Ricther Danah Ritter Annette Romita Michael Schulitz CONGRATULATIONS to those seniors who were able to name all the members of their Orientation Group: LeAta Jackson Mary O'Sullivan Emily SooHoo Ethan Stour You have all won PIZZA PARTIES for your Orientation '84 Groups. DETAILS TO BE ANNOUNCED. : ', . lM Sti$V~lWk < ,· ·: ' • ' • Shelley Szymk.o llrewWard . · Alison Wllliams Victoria Wise ·stephanie Woodard Head ResidentAdvisor's Dawn Buon()Core Bruce Hay Eileen Sweeney ; • ~- ' • '•<-~ '..,_.. ...... • Term Abroad Alternate Resident .Advisor Todd Adelman Jeff Liberman Leslie B. Shapiro Christopher P. Sheridan Elizabeth G. Sorkenn EricT. Starck Peter M.'Valerio Wendy A. Vincent Grewhen A Wirth Mark T. Zimmerman Page 7 THERE WILL BE A MANDATORY MEETING OF ALL STUDENT REUNION WEEKEND WORKERS ON TUESDAY, MAY 24 AT 4:30PM IN THE COLLEGE CENTER, ROOM 203. IF YOU CANNOT ATTEND, CALL SHARON AT 6i68, THANK YOU. UNION COLLEGE SPEAKERS FORUM presents STAND UP COMEDY AT ITS BEST AS SEEN ON TV: GILBERT GOTTFRIED BEVERLY HILLS COP H THE COSBY SHOW FRIDAY, 8:00 p.m. PRICE: $1.00 MEMORIAL CHAPEL

- Page 8 FHL Day Preview By BETH STANGER Drink, shmink, who says Union students can't have fun without alcohol? Well, on April 21, 1979 some Union students said so. It was on this day that the first FitzHugh Ludlow day was celebrated; Although the committee saw the day as a way of having fun without alcohol, they also saw it as a way to cure student apathy, and promote student interaction. Since then FitzHugh has been celebrated annually to reconfirm the original com· mittee's ideas. There are many events which will occur througb()ut the day this year, so get involved! To start the day off, t-shirts (you know you need another one!) will go on sale at 9:30 am. From 1Cl-2, the Yearbook is sponsori11g an opportunity for you to Sh()ot Yourself in Library Plaza, photographically speaking; of course. The annual all-campas picture will be taken at 3:00 ()n the West Wall. Delta Gamma's 1oth annual Olympics begin at 1 :30 on the Rugby Field. There are 20 teams participating this year, so it should prove to be an exciting event to watch. If you don't want to be a spectator, starting at 2:00, you can slide down the ever popular J ello Slide on the side of the Nott. Or, if you had something cleaner in mind, a campus wide Twister game will be held in front of the Nott along with snow cones. Later on in the afternoon, a barbecue will be held on West Beach from 4;30-6:00, Slipknot and Mambo-X will also be . playing on West Beach between 3:30 and 7:00 with a game of Simon Says in between the two. If you still haye energy left, a Scavenger Hunt will take place between 7:00 and 8:30 starting on West Beach. Revenge of the Nerds and Caddyshack will be shown outside at Library · Plaza between 9:00pm and 1:00 am to bring the day to a close. So come out and enjoy some or all of the activities, and remember; even being sober can be fun! ·. Chester A. Arthur: By CYNDIE COONEY It is often the nature of students at Union to \decorate\ the statues on campus. Although this act is more frequently carried out with the painting of the IGol, it is not such a rare occasion to see a fishing pole or a beer can in the hands .of the statue of Chester Arthur. To some, it may appear inappropriate that · the memorial of the only United States president to graduate from Union, be the object of student pranks; after all, a man of such great statUre ought to be revered. It is said by his classmates however, that Arthur loved a joke. Granted, he was clasSified as an \in veterate · punster\ and is remembered as having possessed \none of that blustering spirit so conunon among college boys,\ nonetheless, a joke is anything said or done to amuse or provoke laughter. So the students are really enhancing the statue of Arthur by con- tinuing the personality of our twenty-first U.S. president now, 140 years after his graduation from th,e college. The students' additions to Arthur's memorial are not the only reflections of his life. The . six and one-half foot base is granite which was quarried in Vermont near ·Fairfield, Arthur's birthplace. He was born on October 5, 1830 as a son of a minister and he entered Union as a sophomore when he A_ History was eighteen years of age. The stance; he received praise .for statue at the entrance of vetoing the Chinese Exclusion Jackson's Gardens is holding a Bill and the River and Harbor newf;paper which , is also BilL During his term Atthur significant since ArthUJ.\ was also rf)placedthree cent postage said to be a constant reader. At with two cent postage and. Union, he e;ll:celled in Greek and reduced the. public debt by ()Vel' Latin, and he marvelled · $400 1 000,000; he personally classmates by maintaining ''a dedicated the Washin~ton high standing in his class Momunent and the Brooklyn without long and laborious Briuge .. The acquisition of Pearl application to the college Harbor as a naval base and the curriculum.\ It is this ability organ~ation of terri~orlal which earned him the nickname government in Alaska also took \Old Chet'' which can still be place, and he is responsible for heard on campus today. A the Civil Service Reform Act as classmate e:Jq>lained the name-' well as tbe declaration of two by describing Arthur as \an old n a t i o n a 1 h o 1i d a y s .: head on young shoulders:'' He_ Thanksgiving. and Amen· didnotalways actolderthan he can Decoration Day was though; while living in (presently, Memorial Day) .His room 25 ·Of North College, he final official act was the signing carved \C. A. Arthur\ in the of the bill which made Grant windowsill which was later general of the army. It is a preserved and usually is shame that the presidency ()£ a displayed in Milano LoUnge. He man who accomplished .so mucll also took no part in political (all of the above and more) ! contests while he was in school. should be \slipped under the A surprising f~ct about a man carpet,\' but seeing as it btlgan who later became our nation's with the cry of Garfield's leader. assassin; CbarlesGiteau: \1 am Often Arthur's term in office a Stalwart of the Stalwarts- is forgotten. Perhaps this fact Arthur is president now!\ it is can be justified because Arthur understandable why historians was never really elected pay little attention to Artliur. president, he was elected vice Chester Alan Arthur !lied president alongside Garfield. In November 17, 1887 from a fact, Arthur's nomination was kidney illrtess which he bad offered to him without Gar- known about, but he had kept a field's endorsement .. It is said secret. He is buried at Rw-al that his ability to make a Cemetery in Albany, NY and his decision is the . · factor that memorial statue is between the gained .Arthur his place on the College Center and the Arts Republican ticket, and while in Building. He is being hono:red office,. he did make many May 20 for FitzHugh Ludlow respected decisions. For in- Day and rightly so 1 An Interview· With Chester A. Arthur Concordiensis: Well, Mr. Arthur as you probably know you've been nominated as the guest of honor for this year's Fitzhugh Ludlow celebration. CAA: Yes, thank you so much. I feel great. Concordiensis: There's been some .~screpancy as to w~t year you were really born. It seems that when you registered you wrote down that you were 16 yrs. old, but a further check into your records shows that you may have been only .14 at the time, in which case you were not of legal age to become . a Union student. CAA: No comment, I plead the fifth. Concordiensis: Oh come on Chet. CAA: Well, let's just say that when I registered there wa:s a nasty rumor circulating abCJut a drinking age being im· plemented. Concordiensis: Would you attend Union now if you were going to go l;>ack to col~ege? CAA = Are you kidding me? I paid $28 for tuition and $125 for room and board when I went here. With that amount Mday I'd be living in a tent in library plaza. Concordiensis: Did you have any memorable P.xperiences at Union? CAA: Well, once in dass 1 gave Dr. Nott a hot foot after he marked one of my questions wrong on a test. He's still mad ,at me for that. To tell you the truth, I think that's the reason be got the building, well I g(lt the little statue. Concotdiensis: Are you still sore at him? CAA: No way. He never had Robert Redford grab ont() his butt. Concordiensis: Have you beenback to your old.room'? 25 North I thirik it was, correct~ :FitzHugh L~tow, tomorr()\1('9 na_m~.~·, . • · ·- ·.:.'r:· ...... ', ~ .. , :~~tfnuect~!n;:,P44!. ,tl~ i

I ' l l. I l f I' \:: !: :, l !; 'I I' ,. l ;..1 ' I ' i ' ~ ,, '· THE FITZHUGH LUDLOW DAY PRESENTS: S-l,ipknot 3:30 and M.am.;bo -X 5:30 AT W·EST BEAC·H Page 9 . Scaven.ger H u~nt . Fonow·i:ng Mambo- X •West Bea·ch 7:00 p,m •5 peo.ple to a team • Prizes Aw·ard.e·d DON'T MISS SIMON SAYS:! West Beach 5:00 Cash Prizes ! OUTDOOR -MOVIES REVENGE OF THE NERDS and· CADDVSHACK Library Plaza 9:00 I . ' ' ! ' I, '' 1' ,, ' ,, l ' •' l

Page 10 • Meal Card Hol,ders: In Order to eat free at the barbecue, you must bring your meal cards and I. D. If you are not _on the meal plan, please bring ,cash. How many positions do you know? I I .The next best th:ing to mud wrestling Twister - -~1 \ . 2:00 at the Nott (South Side) I I .do it at the Nott· (north side) 2:00-3:00 SCHEDULE FOR FHL DAY 9:30 FLEA MARKET: STUDENT VENDORS, T-SHIRTS (LIBRARY PLAZA} 10:00 SHOOTYOURSELF\ (LIBRARY PLAZA) 2:00 JELLO SLIDE (NORTH SIDE OF NOTI) TWISTER (SOUTH SIDE OF NOIT) 3:30 SLIPKNOT (WEST BEAC:H) 4:30 CAMPUS BAR-B-QUE (WEST BEACH) 5:00 SIMON SAYS (WEST BEACH) 5:30 MAMBO-X- (WEST BEACH) 7:00 SCAVENGER HUNT (LIBRARY PLAZA) 9:00 OUTDOOR MOVIES REVENGE OF THE NERDS/CADDYSHACK (LIBRARY PLAZA) TIIINI SUN FOR TOMORROW IT'S NOTT HISTORY By W.T.SMYmE As some of you may remember from this column several years ago, during the fire that ravaged Smythe House in the nineteenth century, FitzHugh's bong bounced out of the house and across campus, where it finally exploded, forming the arma.ture for the Nott. In a televized news con· ferenc.e last week, Keith Bemis announced that during his recent investigations into the state of the Nott, he learned that not only did Fitzhugh's bong form the armature· of the Nott, but of Carnegie as well. On hearing the news, the Ludlow family, noting that the nameplate above the door was .. · etnpty, suggested that the · ·- ' building be named the Ludlow College Center. Prezmo im· mediately called the Alumni Office to find out how much money FitzHugh had donated to the College after he · left Schenectady. The results of this :conversation are unknown. At a news conference, Prezmo announced that in his view, to name the building· ~lle Ludlow College Center woul\d be to insult the memory of Andrew Carnegie. Thus, he said, tlle building will continue to be called the Co1lege Center. When a reporter from Concordiensis asked why the building couldn't . be called .carnegie, Prezmo attacked Union students, refusal to learn foreign languages. As Msmo and I have been trying to· teach people, he pointed out, the Welsh term for Carnegie is College Center~ Prezmo also announced t1Iat the last great building project of his presidency would not be the extension of the library (\Bag b()oks!\ ), but an extension of the College Center atrium ove!j the entire campus. The Morris Atrium, he said, chortling mysteriously, will guarantee that at Union, every day will be as dry as FitzHugh Ludlow Day. · Enjoy the day. See you next year.

·r. FITZHUGH LUPLOW DAY~ .MAY 1988 Page 11 ;~ ''!'• .. 4,1 *' :.4·~(\41 ,...,.... 4 • ... ~ ,.,.._ I'll~ r- ~~~---·*~-~----------------·--·~~--~----~--.-------------~ «<UTe GARFIELD AND ARTHUR.?~~ ~·SONG- AND CHORUS.~ WORDS A·ND MUSIC BY THOS~ Px w:ESTENDORF~ Co?T-R~:.'sT, 1880. :aT W. F .. Sa.1w. CHORUS With G~rfield and ArHllU, then, To lead us thro' the fray. Beneath the dear old flag again, We're bound to win the day. We march a patriot band. In answer to· the bugle call, That's ringing thro the land, Each loyal heart with nope is rife, We love our country still, And to defend her precious .life, We're coming w~h a will~ Beneath the .dear old flag again. The fight we're bound to win, Our leaders they are trusty men, They've heard the battles din, on Chickamauga's bloody field, · Amid tt1e dangers there, Brave Garfield stood, nor would A,e yield, Tho' others might despair. .In senate halls we've heard his voice ring forth in eloquence that made a nations heart rejoice, when raised in its defense, and to reward this honored son, our energies are bent, and when the victory is won, he'll be our president. ~.--.~~~~~~c...o.-.~ ' The Fitzhugh Ludlow Committee would like to thank Prof.· Thomas for all his help and 'dry' humor. / Interview Continued from page 8 CAA: You bet 1 have. ·Ever since they made it into a female dorm I visitJt every year!! Comcordiensis: Would you want to run for President ~gain? CAA: Not on your life, the press is too rough nowadays. Concordiensis: But you had a very successfUl administration, I'm sure you would have nothing to worry about CAA: But a l()t bas happened in my personal life since then ... if you know what I mean. Concordiensis: What was . your greatest accomplishment as President? CAA: I would have to say it was my bill to have extended postal services. Concordiensis: When was that.approved? • • • CAA: I'm not sure. It hasn't been mailed back to me yet. Concordiensis: In 1883, you lost the Republican nomination ·to Mr. Blaine, who eventually lost the election to NY Governor Grover Cleveland. How did you feel about that? CAA: At the time I was really mad, but if history repeats it· self, I'll get over it. Concordiensis: Well, any final comments on your being honored as this year's Fitzhugh Ludlow day honoree? CAA: Maybe we could make this a yearly event. Each year my statue could be painted, there could be a huge party, lots of food, drinks, no hamework ... Concordiensis: Ahem, excuse me Chet, I'd love to let you continue but the festivities are about to begin and I don't want ln be late. .. AJ·I God·s Chillun Got Wings .. Performance Dates Thursday, May 19 Frid·ay, May 20 Saturday, May 21 Curtain is at 8:00p.m. every evening

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, May 19, 1988 -------Founrleif' CJI Union College 1877 ------- You Bought It; Use It Like many small Libte1al Arts Colleges Union is somewhat homogenous. We rue ~:ware of this problem, however. and have taken steps to try to diversify such as the Academic Opportunity Program, BLAS, The International House, and dropping the SAT re.q11irement. This past week both the International House and. tile Cultural Unity Center petitioned for new housing (both (:arrently occupying Webster.) The International House luts been moved from the north half of Webster's first floor liJ tile top floor, and the Cultural Unity Center was moved to llr~Jnner at the expense of one of the co- ops. While we do not q ue~tion the merits of the cue, nor deny their right to housin,g,. it is a shame that another beneficial organization and al te:ri()r housing opportunity had to be sacrificed. Housing is 11'lltllre of a problem than ever if the cotlege wishes to continue to cffer alternative housing opportunities that promote diversity. While city zoning regulations restrict the college from utilizing many of the <>ff-campus houses it owns, it would seem that this isn't the case ~r two of its newest acquisitions. The fraternities Delta Upsilo11 and Alpha Epsilon Pi were both in the process of bidding for tt.v!O houses on lower Union A venue w,hen the college secured thern for its own. We cannot, of course, assume that this was dcne out of spite. and therefore must assume that the college believes these houses to be of some benefit to the campus cornmunity. It would seem, thc:n, that we now have two more housing options. If the college b;elieves Ulese houses to be beneficial let's see them benefit us. And if the college is; as concerned with diversification as it claims, let's see them act on iL Turn ~The Tables The General Educatio-n Board provided the communiity with the underlying goals of their pr()posed curriculum last month with a response (in tb~ April 21 issue) to Concordiensis' invocation (in the Aj>ril 14 issue). While the issue of General Education at Union h~s taken a back seat to more prominent topics this spring, tile j)roposal's passage Monday has brought the issue face forward There is no doubt tlia.t the G .E.B. is aware of the magnitude in which this curricullllm will affect the College's academic system: the G.E.B. pl'o-ved it in its response last April. However, its awareness of the <;wrriculurn's role as a signal (or lack thereof) to the collegiate cornrn11nity abroad is doubted. Although the Colleg.e has not openly admitted to participating in an initiative to be.1ter its name,' its actions over the past four years have betrayed its.~lf. Both .physically and aeademically, the College has taken m easures to improve and 'upgrade.' The Alumni Gymnasium <kn..d Carnegie renovations. Gel Time. The dropping of the SA \T from the admission requirements. And, now, General Educatiorn. The College's aspirations ar.e not criticized here. After all, positive improveme11ts::llave been made that have been beneficial to the college comm.udity, and they have succeeded in bringing much deserved recognition to the institution. But what is being ct:riticized here is the General Education Curriculum and its deficiency in originality. Is it worthy to be a part of the College's ()mg;oing self-improvement and promotion? The curriculum that tbe G.E.B. has formulated is nothing new to the academic COllliilllnity. Its framework is based heavily on the trends that some \Vell known colleges and universities have been following for 11early a decade--for example, the undergraduate program at Harvard University. The College, by irupl~menting the curriculum, will be riding on other's coattails. Is that where we wmt to be? Reaction against the 'general curriculum idea' has already started. U,S. Secretary of Education William Bennett State:d last year that while he agrees with its underlying goals, theclJITiculum that stresses breadth and depth throughout the diffe:rent disciplines, particularly Western Civilization, is not the most efficient means through which to reach the goals of an irasl.itute dedicated to higher education. With the opportulliilyr for change at Union, why doesn't the G.E.B. provide the College with a curriculum that really deserves all the encrg)' tllat wiH be exerted on phasing in a new program? Moteover.,.,.,.,lly doesn't the G.E.B. offer a curriculum worthy to be a part cfthe College's '{Ilulti ... tiered' initiative? It's not too late. With some up-to-th.e-min11te research, a little innovation, and several alteratiolls., the G.E.B. could provide the College with a. revis-ed curriculum that is on the cutting edge of education, thereby a -voicing riding on the coattails of an already outdated curricular framlework and, instead, turning the tables by making a statement lh!1t the academic world will want to take notice of. ~- - ~~--- ------. LET'TERS Residence Life Makes Poor Decision '!'o the Editor: The recent changes in the housing lottery system has drawn more than its share of complaints from the campus. Complaints are always ex- pected when new policies are made and the administration has always made the effort to listen to them in one way or another. However, when there are complaints about residence life, the only people open to us are in the Residence Life Office. To be more to the point, to whom can we express our idignations when we feel the culprit is the Residence Life . Office itself? Just about every administrative office seem to say~ \we agree with you, but it is out of our jurisdiction.\ The recent decision by Dean Wood to give Smith House to the bidding gr()up with the highest combined cummative index: is an example .of ~ad policy~ ·Furthermore, it is not even an alternativeto the lottery system described in the Aca§l_emic Register or the Student Hand- book. It, in fact, made the entire lottery s.ysteni obsalete for those involved. Why is it so bad? Union is not a school that only r·ecognizes academic achievement but all the other things that bring vitality to the campus. T.e add housing as a reward for studying hard or intellectual faculty only depletes .from the life of the campus. I regretfully say that with .my GPA, grad school rejections are inevitable but never have I thought it would decide where r live. NQW we lq:}ow where those with high cwns will live. As for me, I'll be in Davidson 315 wi'U)te the \not as smarts\ belong. Perhaps my friends in Smith House can offer me 5ome tutoring neltt year. What d'you say guys? I must confess that ()ne good thing did come out of this. I am putting more time .into the · library ~d less time into frivolous things like parties and dates and all that jaz~; My parents wauld~ like t() extend their heart~felt .gratitude to Dean Wood. · Anyway, what's done is done and I congratulate gext year's Smith House group. But for the benefit of the next bunch of bidders, I ask for a fairer and more sensible set of crita·i.a. But get good grades. to play it safe! · Sincerely, EdLin, President,. \Not As Smarts\ Smith House Tie Breaker Deemed Unfair To the Editor: Dean Wood's decisions regarding cooperative housing hav~ come under much scrutiny in the recent past months, and with good_ reason. As any Union resident would know the housing lottery, (hence the tenn \lottery\) has · been traditionally based on a random number system. Thus, no one group would be discriminated against. Then, the lottery is broken down and ranked by class year realizing that every student would progress from freshman to· senior. Smith House, a cooperative was based on seniority; and never needed a · deciding .factor _ beyond seniority to house one com- peting group over the nex:t. However, with the new order of housing preference (given to sophomores instead of seniors) a greater demand for Smith- House has surfaced. Thus, about three weeks before Smith House decision was made, Dean Wood announced his \tie breaker\ plan which would be used in the case. of two groups with equal seniority. The plan was based on a swnmation of the competing groups GPAs, the one with higher GP A,getting the house. The following story is based on two rather lengthy meetiPgs Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and · submitted by 4;p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for verificaiton of the letter. Names nonnally will not be withheld. Concordiensls reseiVes the right to reject · letters that are libelous or do not confonn to standard s of good taste. with Dean W.ood, the ad- ministration and discussions W:ith faculty members. It is-the personal eKperience of one of the undersigned. Since there were two groups totally comprised of seniors, the tie-breaker was necessary as a decisive means to allocate the scarce reoourse- i.e. housing. The collective grade point averages of the two competing senior groups would be added up and compared by Residence Life. The winner was that with the highest. In my discussions with Dean Wood I mentioned to him that I had read once that there is trend among different majors to have ·different aggregate grade distributions. He carelessly brushed· this· aside. The insignificance of these studies would be to prove that allocating housing based on GPA would be discriminatory agamst certain majors, This may not even bethat one major is \harder\. Rather, there are different methods of testing within each group, and that somehow .grades simply reflect a difference. UnfortWlately, I could not list my source and the Dean certainly would not consider my word. It is true that the tie-breaker plan was announced three weeks before the final decision; but when questioned why tbis system, he replied that the Administration felt it ap- propriate. He gave no reaso~ why the traditionally used· random lottery system had . been disregarded. Definding the 'justice' of the program, Wood gave me· the example that college sports teams useGPA to detertnme if oJle can play in the game. I pointed out to Dean Wood that housing is not sports, Continued on page 13 '·

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 19, 198/l <!Illttfllrbtrnsis --------Founder/ at Union Co/Jet1,f 1817 ------- You Bought It; Use It Like many s~nall Liberal Ans Colleges Union is somewhat homogenous. We are aware of this problem, however. and have taken steps to try to diversify such as the Academic Opportunity Program, BLAS, The luLcrnational House, and dropping the SAT req uiremen l. Tnis past week both the International House and the Cultural Uuity Center petitioned for new housing (both currently occupying Webster.) The International House has been moved from the north half of Webster's first floor to the top floor, and the Cultural Unity Center was moved to Bronner at the expense of one of the co- ops. While we do not question the merits of the CUC, nor deny their right to housing, it is a shame that another beneficial organization and alterior housing opportunity had to be sacrificed. Housing is more of a problem than ever if the college wishes to continue to offer alternative housing opportunities that promote diversity. While city zoning regulatio11s restrict the college from utilizing many of the off-campus houses it owns, it would seem that this isn't the case for two of its newest acquisitions. The fraternities Delta Upsilon and Alpha Epsilon Pi were both iA the process of bidding for two houses on lower Union A venue when the college secured them for its ow11. We cannot, of course, assume that this was done out of spite, and therefore must assume that the college believes these houses to be of some benefit to the campus commuuity. It would seem, then, that we now have two more housing options. If the college believes these houses to be beneficial let's sec them benefit us. And if the college is as concerned with diversification as it claims, let's see them act on it. Turn The Tables The General Education Board provided the communiity with the underlying goals of their proposed curriculum last month with a response (in the April 21 issue) to Concordiensis' invocation (in the April 14 issue). While the issue of General Education at Union has taken a back seat to more prominent topics this spring, the proposal's passage Monday has brought the issue face. forward. There is no doubt that the G.E.B. is aware of the magnitude in which this curriculum will affect the College's academic system: the G.E.B. proved it in its response last April. However, its awareness of the curriculum's role as a signal (or lack thereot) to the collegiate community abroad is doubted. Although the College has not openly admitted to participating in an initiative to better its name,' its actions over the past four years have betrayed itself. Both physically and academically, the College has taken measl!rcs to improve and 'upgrade.' The Alumni Gymnasium and Carnegie renovations. Gel Time. The dropping of the SAT from the admission requirements. And, now, General Education. The College's aspirations are not criticized here. After all, positive improvements have been made that have been beneficial to the college community, and they have succeeded in bringing much deserved recognition to the instit11tion. But what is being criticized here is the General Education Curriculum and its deficiency in originality. Is it worthy to be a part of the College's ongoing self-improvement and promotion? Th..:: curriculum that the G.E.B. has formulated is nothing new to the academic community. Its framework is based heavily on the trends that some well known colleges and universities have been following for nearly a decade--for example, the undergraduate program at Harvard University. The College, by implementing the curriculum, will be riding on other's coattails. Is that where we want to be? Reaction against the 'general curriculum idea' has already started. U.S. Secretary of Education William Bennett stated last year tha.t while he agrees with its underlying goals, the curriculum that stresses breadth and depth throughout the different disciplines, particularly Western Civilization, is not the most efficient means through which to reach the goals of an institute dedicated to higher education. With the opportunity for change at Union, why doesn't the G.E.B. provide the College with a curriculum that really deserves all the energy that will be exerted on phasing in a new progran,? Moreover, why doesn't the G.E.B. offer a curriculum worthy to be a part of the College's 'multi-tiered' initiative? It's not too late. With some up-to-the-minute research, a little innovation, and several alterations, the G .E.E. could provide the College with a revised curriculum that is on the cutting edge of education. thereby avoiding riding Oil the coattails of an already outdated curricular framework and, instead, turning the tables by making a statement that the academic world will want to take notice of. LETTERS Residence Life Makes Poor Decision To the Editor: The recent changes in the housing 1ettery system has drawn more than its share of complaints from the campus. Complaints are always ex- pected when new policies are made and the administration has always made the effort to .listen to them in one way or another. However, when there are complaiBts aoout residence life, the only people open to us are in the Residence Ufe Office. To be more to the l>t)int, to whom can we express our idignations wheil we feel the culprit is the Residence Life Office itself? Just about every administrative office seem to say, \we agree with you, but it is out of our jurisdiction.\ The recent decision by Dean Wood to give Smith House to the bidding group with the highest combined cumulative index is an example of bad policy. Furthermore, it is not even an alternative to the lottery system described in the Academic R.egister or tb.e Stud~nt Hand- b~()k. It, in fact, made the entire lottery system. obsolete for those involved. Why is it so bad? Union is net a school that only recognizes academic achievement but all the other things that bring vitat.ity to the campus. To add housing as a reward for studying hard or intellectual faculty eniy depletes from tb.e life of the campus. I regretfully s~y that with my GPA, grad school rejections are inevitable but n.ever have I th@ught it would clecide where I live. Now we know where those with high cums will live. As for me, I'H be in DavidSon 315 wllere the \not as smarts\ belong. Perhaps my friends in Smith House can offer me some tutoring next year. What d'you say guys? I must confess that one good thing did come out of this. I am putting more time into the liarary and less time into frivolous things Uke parties and dates and aU that jazz. My parents would like ta extend their heart-felt gratitude to Dean Wood. Anyway, what's done is done and I congratulate next year's Smith House group. But for the benefit of the next bunch of bidders, I ask for a fairer and more sensible set of criteria. But get good grades to play it safe! Sincerely, Ed Lin, President, \Not As Smarts\ Smith House Tie Breaker Deemed Unfair To the Editor: Dean Wood's decisions regarding cooperative housing have come llllder much scrutiny in the recent past months, and with good reason. As any Union resident would know the housing lottery, (hence the tenn .. lottery\) has been traditionally based on a random number system. Thus, no one group would be discriminated against. Then, the lottery is broken down and ranked by class year realizing that every student would progress from freshnaan to senior. Smith House, a cooperative was based on seniority, and never needed a deciding factor beyond seniority to house one com- peting group over the next. However, with the new order of housing preference (given to sophomores instead of seniors) a greater demand for Smith House has surfaced. Thus, about three weeks before Smith House decision was made, Dean Wood announced his \tie breaker\ plan which would be used in the case of two groups with equal seniority. The plan was based on a summation of the competing groups GPAs, the one with higher GPA getting the house. The following story is based on two rather lengthy meeti.rlgs Letters to the Editor and Commentaries do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board of Concordiensis All Letters to the Editor must be typed double-spaced and · submitted by 4.p.m. each Tuesday before publication. All letters must be signed by no more than four people and all writers should provide their addresses and phone numbers for veri1icaiton of the letter. Names nonnally will not be withheld. Concordiensis reserves the light to reject letters that are libelous or do not .confonn to standard s of good taste. with Dean Wood, the ad- ministration and discussions with faculty members. It is the personal experience of one of t:he undersigned. Since there were two groups t~tally comprised of seniors, the tie-breaker was necessary as a decisive means to allocate the scarce resourse- i.e. housing. Tb.e collective grade point averages of the two competing senior groups would be added up and compared by Residence Life. The winner was that with the highest. In my discussions with Dean Wood I mentioned to him that I had read ouce that there is trend among different majors to have different aggregate grade distributions. He carelessly brushed this aside. The insignificance of these studies would be to prove that allocating housing based on GPA would be discriminatory B-usiness M~~t~agors Subscription$ Mi~nagets Honorary Faculty Advisor against certain majors. This may not even be that one major is \harder\. Rather, there are different methods of testing within each group, and that somehow grades simply reflect a difference. Unfortllllately, I could not list my source and the Dean certainly would not consider my word. It is true that the tie-breaker plan was announced three weeks before the final decision, but when q,uestioned why this system, he replied that the Administration felt it ap- propriate. He gave no reason why the traditionally used random lottery system had been disregarded. Definding the 'justice' of the program, Wood gave me the example that college sports teams use G PA to determine if one can play in the game. I pointed out to Dean Wood that housing is not sports, Continued on page 13 Mnrn\'. Liz P~rkowski. Beth'fmney Beth Good.smith, Robin Jacobson :Brad Mondschein, Karen Simons C. William Huntley STAill<'= Elizabeth Berliner, Anthlklia Carassavas, Lisa Cherande, Alan De;Sahio, Carl Friedrich. Alex Gardner, Greg Goetz, Dave Gulliver. Pamela Haber, Bruce Hay, Jr., Matty Heck. Andrew Hcrschaft, LeAta Jackson. Stephanie Jaryna, Becky Koopman, Howie Lazar, Ch.ad Levin, Melissa Levine. Jim Manley, Virginie Melio, Tom Muzzlnegto. Tracey Pryluck, Bill Robbins, LeeAn:n Schniidt, Tina Sciocchetti, Cara Taback. Conrad Tatge. Tim Wymes. PHOTOGRAPHERS: Jenny Brandwein, Todd Cocorikis. Richard Cr.ocker, Amy. Dillenback, Frank Fitzgerald, Amy Goldstein. Richard Gurney, Jenrw Orandwein, Stan Kittinger, Gary Lambert.. Kris Lynch, Kate Nunitt!. AI)VERTlSlNG STAFF: Michelle Alfano, Robin Baskin, Jill Deutsch. Lavren Feuerm.an, Kathy Greene, Dina Golas, Lina Leung. Martina Moore. CONCORDIENSlS is publis,hed every Thursday by the student body of'Uni<m Collegtl, Schenectady, New York 1.230'8; Publications Office; Swqlldlanrta PUblication, Inc., Box 388, Sidney, N¢w York 13838 (tJO'l) 553·&339. Su.bsc:ripti¢n rate; $24 per year, delivered anywhere .in the United States, CdUC()tdiensis subscribes to the Intercollegiate Ptess (IP). Office Teleph~ne (518) 370--6155.

CONCORDJENSJS, May 19, 1988 Page 13 . . -~ ' . ' --- --.-·- __ ....._.._._.... ~. -·· --- ·- ,·~- -...... ,. Oppression Is Wrong To the ·Editor: Free spe.e.ch· censorship, suppression of ideas, the rights ofindividuals, who cares? Not I said the wort. In these days of the Space Shuttle MX missile, arid djgital watch, we humans find so 'cool' it's all right if a few people get trampled under the marching feet of civilization as long as we .get where we're going, right? Wrong. We live in a societY where the individual is supreme, king of the hill, cream of the crop, and all that jazz. No matter how wrong, .stupid,. or idiotic your ideas are, we will defend to the end your right to stand on the top of:soapbox on-Jay Street and scream: out at the top of your lungs. · On this ·is foUnded what we call'civillzati(ln'. ~ Professor Berk seems to have ignored thi$ simple fact. O.K. Picture this: Wednesday, May 11th,, 1988. Around 9 p.m. You're sitting in Memorial Chapel, wondering if the ben- ches could be any harder. Listening to an old man with a thick Israeli accent who reminds you of some old man with a thick Israeli accent. He's babbling about how wondedul Israel is to a group of people who want to- hear someone say just how wonderful Israel is. He l()ses your feeble mind in big words you thought you could forget after the SAT's. Which makes you think he probably knows what he's talking about. Ok. Question and answer time. Things are picking up. Professor Berk, like the . a-x~rag~ rv ~~e. ~bo~host, ~s., cal11ng the ~liots. We go through the nsual questions of which is the best brand of gefilte fish, When Pat Sajak c~ls on, the dark gentleman in the b~c::k· \I would like to say something -and then ask a question,'' he says, in a medium thick Palestinian accent. \No replies Pat, rather rudely, ''if you have a question, ask it now.\ A few minutes of rather ob- noxious di$cussion follow, Pat hands the Palestinian a soap- box, and tells him he may find an audience on J·ay Street. 'l'be Palestinian ·asks· directions. . Ok. You're right. We're D()t at a debate, we're at a lecture. But intelligent questions are based on facts, or so my Preceptorial .professor told me. I can maintain that bill·:the-cat will win the next Presidential election, but Without supporting facts it all sounds like something from Ronald Reagan. The Arab man wanted to point to some facts for the other side, showing that everything might not be as peachy-keen as the lecturer's babble led· one to believe (.as I found out af~ terwards), and ask of what the lecturer's babble was made. But that's not the point. Ok, Pro.fessor Berk,. by silencing this man, you merely proved to him once again that the minority has no say, be they Palestinians under Jews, blacks under whites, women under men, or Jews under Nazi Germany. Remember that when your people, Our People cried out for help, the world answered. Last I checked, our system is designed to prevent this discrimination, not en- coUrage it. Oppression is wrong, no matter who is in con:trol. We, who pride ourselves on human rigbts, seem to have a stragnely eaf!y . time taking them . away . No wonder Arabs call Americans hypocrites. In Peace, Lawrence A. Jacobs '91 The Department of sociology and Anthropology · announces two cpurses of special Interest. to , , Union,?.College Students .. S . 1 15° \A i: d s. . t II Th· . I · . oCio agy · o glng an . oCle y ; e socta , • psychological and economic consequences of agillg. Social programs and policies for the aged are evaluated. . MONDAY, wgDNESDAV, AND FRIDAY 2:00-3:05 Soci<>logy 22, \Social Problems,\ This course · identifies the social roots of major social prob- .. lems (e.g. poverty, discrimination, crime, the . eldedy, health care) and critically examines current and alternative social policies for dealing with them. . TUESDAY AND THURSDAY 8:50·10:30 Dr. Donlleen Loeske, Instructor ATTENTION-SENIORS LETTERS Smith_House Goes to Higher GPA's Continue!;~ from page 12 and further, sports. teams have a cutoff point because they don't want one to play who is in danger of failing the academics. Still Wood contended that using GPA js a legitimate form of a . tie-breaker for housing allocation, and wol.il.d not reason with the netion of a random lottery. He did, however, state . that he felt allocating housing primarily .by GP:A would be unfair, but using it to decide among the two .groups would be. Wondering who was involved in the ''administration's'' decision I sought infoflllation from other members of the col1ege hierarchy. This proved enlightening. When askedif the .policy could be changed above Dean Wood's -office the reply was genuinely empathetic, but the choice was for the Office of Residence .Life to make. Thus, I returned to Dean Wood realizing that he is the only \administration•·• within the Office of Ftesidence Life. Why was Dean Wood unwilling to admit that he so strongly sponsored the PQlicy? .. I was given knowledge of a report that was created by Dean Daniels' office. The report was a three-year· .study examining the . differences in G.P.A.s ' among the different depart~ ments HERE AT UNION. The faculty member said that this was released to- \all\ the faculty on February 29, 1988, and revealed differences inherent in each department. Armed with what I had learned ,from the other administrator and from information supplied by faculty I re-entered Dean Wood's office. With this data and a belief in DaveWood's moral fiber I was certain he would take a moment ami call Dean Daniels for a copy. My instincts were wrong, Dean Wood wasn't interested in that study and only pressed that this was the decision that the ad- ministration had made• He stated that at this point in time he was going to have to stick to the decision. . B~ck-tracking, and in fair- ness to Dean Wood, we would like to state that he agreed to change the \ tie-breaker\ if both groups agreed that this one was unfair. Unfortunately. as I pointed out to him that this would be ipso facto and each group would know their status. The groups could not possible make a decision based on ethics, inStead rnemi;Jers of each group would be motivated by · self-interest. In fact, representatives of the other ·group seemed quite C()nfident in their ability to win and had no interest in damaging their position. They had no ~eason.· to want to change the pollcy which is quite understandable. Dean Wood claimed that it would be· unfair to change the policy if both groups did not feel it was unfair. We would just like to point out that many Whites did not feel the Jim CrCJW Laws unfair, either, and would not have lobbied for their abolish- ment. Further, if one has the power to create a policy in the first place and doesn't need agreement from both groups to enact it, why would one need to consult them both when changing it? In the future, we hope more consideration is given to the outcome of rash deeisions by .Residence Life We have greater respect for one Who concedes his mistakes and tries to make reparations, than one who is unwilling to strive fer fairness. Respectfully submitted to the college community, Steven E. Cole '89 AlexKorotkin '89 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ,ELSE'S EXPENSE Yes, juniors, it Is nottoo late to express interest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSI-JIP. If you win, the Thomas J. Watson Foundation pays you $14,000.00 TO GO ANYWHERE and DO ANYTHING for the year after you graduate. And it's not hard to apply-just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of reference, due at the beginning of Fall term. YOUR ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years, more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON. That is better than one in twenty. (Compare that to the odds in the New York State lottery!) ; If you have any interest at ~II in letting someone else pay for a Y~R OF TRAVEL, pl~ase bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Kein in the Economics Department (SS 109), A s1mple phone call Will do (x6056), or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No ·salesperson will call. ~------~~---~--------,------------------------~------------ I WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME TO TRAVEL ANYWHERE AND DO ANYTHING FOR A YEAR. Name Box# Graduation Year: Major(s) (Send to o~ Klein, Economics Department, Campus) \ The four \rain\ tickets for commencement exercises will be issued as fol.lows: College Center - Room. 409 Thursday, May 19th 10:00-12:00 a.m. and 1 :30-3:.30 p.m. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity t? indicate the number of ex~ra tickets. (if available) you would like. Students who do not p1ck up the1r , tickets at this time may lose their opportunity for extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats has been determined, extra tickets will be proportionea and sent to the mai·l boxes of those seniors who have requested them. Please take a few minutes to complete the Senior Exit Survey before or after picking up your tickets. Thank You. , Office of the Registrar

CONCORDJENSIS, May 19, 1988 Page 13 Oppression Is Wrong To the Editar: Free speeelil censorship, suppression of ideas, the rights of individuals, who cares? Not I said the wo1f. In these days of t1le Space Shuttle MX missiLe, and digital watch, we hwnans find so 'cool' it's all right if a few people get trampled under the marching feet of civilization as long as we get where we're going, right? Wrong. We live in a society where the individual is supreme, king of the hill, cream of the crop, and aU that jazz. No matter how wrong, stupid, or idiotic your ideas are, we will defend to the end your right to stand on the top of soapbox on Jay Street and scream out at the top of your lungs. On this is ~ounded what we call 'civilization'. Professor Berk seems to have ignored this simple fact. O.K. Picture this: Wednesday, May 11th, 1988. Around 9 p.m. You're sitting in Memorial Chapel, wondering if the ben- ches could be any harder. Listening to an old man with a thick Israeli accent who reminds you of some old man with a thick Israeli accent. He's babbling about how wonderful Israel is to a group of people who want to hear someone say just how wonderful Israel is. He loses your feeble mind in big words you thought you could forget after the SAT's. Which makes you think he probably knows what he's talking about. Ok. Question and answer time. Things are picking up. Professor Berk, like the average TV game show host, is calling the shots. We go through the usual questions of which is the best brand of gefilte fish, when Pat Sajak calls on the dark gentleman in the back. \I would Hke to say something and then ask a question,\ he says, in a medium thick Palestinian accent. \No replies Pat, rather rudely, \if you have a f!Uestion, ask it now.\ A few minutes of rather ob- noxious discussion follow, Pat hands the Palestinian a soap- box:, and tells him he may find an audience on Jay Street. The Palestinian ·asks directions. Ok. You're right. We're not at a debate, we're at a lecture. But intelligent questions are based on facts, or so my Preceptorial professor told me. I can maintain that bilHhe-cat will win the next Presidential election, but without supporting facts it all sounds like something from Ronald Reagan. The Arab man wanted to point to some facts for the other side, showing that everything might not be as peachy-keen as the lecturer's babble led one to believe (as I found out af- terwards), and ask of what the lecturer's babble was made. But that's not the point. Ok, Professor Berk, by silencing this man, you merely proved to him once again that the minority has no say, be they Palestinians under Jews, blacks under whites, women under men, or Jews under Nazi Germany. Remember that when your people, Our People cried out for help, the world answered. Last I checked, our system is designed to prevent this discrimination, not en- courage it. Oppression is wrong, no matter who is in control. We, who pride ourselves on human rights, seem to have a stragnely easy time taking them away. No wonder Arabs call Americans hypocrites. In Peace, Lawrence A. Jacobs '91 The Department of Sociology and Anthropology announces two courses of special interest to Union· College Students. Sociology 158 \Aging and Society'', The social, psychological and economic consequences of aging. Social programs and policies for the aged are evaluated. MONDAY, WEDNESDAY, AND FRIDAY 2:00-3:05 Sociology 22, \Social Problems,\ This course identifies the social roots of major social prob- lems (e_g. poverty, discrimination, crime, the elderly, health care) and critically examines current and alternative social policies for dealing with them. TUESDAY AND THURSDAY 8:50·10:30 Dr. Donileen Loeske, Instructor ATTENTION-SENIORS LETTERS Smith House Goes to Higher GP A's Continued from page 12 and further, sperts teams have a cutoff point because they don't want one to play who is in danger of failing the academics. Still Wood contended that using GPA is a legitimate form of a tie-breaker for housing allocation, and would not reason with the notion 0f a random lottery. He did, h0wever, state that he felt allocating housing primarily by GPA would be unfair, but usiRg it to decide among the two groups Weluld be. Wondering who was involved in the \administration's\ decision I sought information from other members of the college hierarchy. This proved enlightening. When asked if the policy could be changed above Dean Wood's office the reply was genuinely empathetic, but the choice was for the Office of Residence Life to make. Thus, I returned to Dean Wood realizing that he is the only \administration\ within the Office of kesidenee Life. Why was Dean Wood unwilling to admit that he so strongly sponsored the policy? I was given knowledge of a report that was created by Dean Daniels' office. The report was a three-year study examining the differences in G.P.A.s among the different depart- ments HERE AT UNION. The faculty member said that this was released to \all\ the faculty on February 29, 1988, and revealed differences inherent in each department. Armed with what I had learned from the other administrator and from information supplied by faculty I re-entered Dean Wood's office. With this data and a belief in DaveWood's moral fiber I was certain he would take a moment and call Dean Daniels for a copy. My instincts were wrong, Dean Wood wasn't interested in that study and only pressed that this was the decision that the ad- ministration had made. He stated that at this point in time he was going ta have to stick to the decision. Back-tracking, and in fair- ness to Dean Wood, we would like to state that he agreed to change the \ tie-breaker\ if both groups agreed that this one was unfair. Unfortunately, as I pointed out to bim that this would be ipso facto and each group would know their status. The groups could not possible make a decision based on ethics, instead members of each group would be motivated by · self-interest. In fact, representatives of the other group seemed quite confident in their ability to win and had no interest in damaging their position. They had no reason to want to change the policy which is quite understandable. Dean Wood. claimed that it would be unfair to change the policy if both groups did not feel it was unfair. We would just like to point 0ut that many Whites did not feel the Jim Crow Laws unfair, either, and would not have lobbied for their abolish- ment. Further, if one has the power to create a policy in the first place and doesn't need agreement from both groups to enact it, why would one need to consult them both when changing it? In the future, we hope more consideration is given to the outcome of rash decisions by Residence Life We have greater respect for one who concedes his mistakes and tries to make reparations, than one who is unwilling to strive for fairness. Respectfully submitted to the college community, Steven E. Cole '89 Alex Korotkin '89 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ELSE'S EXPENSE Yes, juniors, it is not too late to express interest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP. If you win, the Thomas J. WatsoR Foundation pays you $14,000.00 TO GO ANYWHERE and DO ANYTHING for the year after you graduate. And it's not hard to apply- just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of reference, due at the beginning of Fall term. YOUR ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years, more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON. That is better than one in twenty. (Compare that to the odds in the New York State lottery!) If you have any interest at all in letting someone elsa pay for a YEAR OF TRAVEL, please bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Kein in the Economics Department (SS 1 09). A simple phone call will do (x6056), or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No salesperson will call. ------------~---------------------------------------------- YES I WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME TO lRA VEL ANYWHERE AND 00 ANYTHING FOR A YEAR. Name Box# Graduation Year: Major(s} (Send to D. Klein, Economics Department, Campus) The four \rain\ tickets for commencement exercises will be issued as follows: College Center - Room 409 Thursday, May 19th 1 O:QQ .. 12:00 a.m. and 1 :30-3:30 p.m. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you would like. Students who do not pick up their tickets at this time may lose their opportunity for extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats has been determined, extra tickets will be proportioned and sent to the mail boxes of those seniors who have requested them. Please take a few minutes to complete the Senior Exit Survey before or after picking up your tickets. Thank You. Office of the Registrar

Page 14 Fraternities! Looking for a Charity Idea? THE NA TIONA.L COUNSELING CENTER :IN NISKAYUNA is looking for a fraternity interested in doing g.round work (mowin.g and trimming). Contact Rita Sanders at 370·4589 CONCORDJJENSIS, May 19, 1988 NEED EXTRA ,CASH? . We are looking for students who want to earn some fun, easy money!Students who would like to work on ReUnion Weekend (June 10 & ~1), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168 FAll TERM PREREGISTRATION PROCEDURES Pregistration materials (the \Pregistration Course Request Form\ and a list of courses) will. be available at the Registrar's Office beginning Friday, May 13. Students sho.uld review the course listing, consult with their advisors, and select the courses they wish·. It would be advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in caser one of thek firstthree choices becomes unavailable. TO PREREGISTER EVERY STUDENT WILL BE HEQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEI-R PREREGISTRATION FOORM. IF THEIR ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULTWITH THE HEAD OF THEIR ADVISER'S DEPARTMENT. DAM:BROSE ClEAN·ERS 1517 van Vranken Ave 374-5193 DRY CLEANlNG AND TAILORING Some colJrses ar.e available only witll the permission of the department. These are ref erred to as \list courses and are indicated on the course listing by an asterisk. Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on Wednesday, May 18. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then should retufn to the departments on Friday, May 20 to find out whether or not they have been admitted. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. In order to pick up a card you must have your preregistration form with you to be stamped by the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) caards. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PREREGISTER FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT SUCH A CARD. THESE ARE THE ONLY COURSES THAT REQUIRE SUCH CARDS. Cards not picked up by 4:30p.m. on Monday, May 23, will be given to the next student on the wait list. Preregistration for an independent study or research require:s completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's Office. It must be signed by the supervising faculty menmber and his/her chairperson. *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men ·The date and time for each studentt's appointment is printed on the label affixed to the \Pregistration Course Request Form.\ Students may not preregister prior to their assi.gned time. Preregistration will conclude on Friday, May 27. Additional course changes may next be made during the Drop/Add period at the start of the fall term. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their \Preregistration Course Request Form\ (this form, filled OUT AND SIGNED BY THEIR ADVISER, must be brought to preregistration). Once inside they should verify that the courses they desire· are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and. correct their preregistration form. The.n, they should see a staff member who will preregister them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the fall term, except graduating seniors, must give notice of their plans to the Dean of Students. Potential December '88 graduates should inform 1he Office of the Registrar of their plans to 1inish their studies at the end of the fall \1988 term. SENIOR BEER NITE, TONITEI . ·-· ·.-··- -----. --.., • ' i . I . 1~~~\~? Tanning Tanning Sculptured I 1s1 Visit Free Special Special ' Nails & Tips ! We~~ly 50 Visits 1 00 Visits , · $·24 95 : 6 ViSitS · · · . • $6.95 · ~ $49.95 1 ,$75:00 : reg. 35;oo ' ····----·-----·-· ; ·----- . _ _ YJit~_\:!'l 1 9[!J:.!?·L _____ . _, Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers. Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 ·Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady at the 370-4630 ,, RATHSKELLAR COME AND SEE ALL OF YOUR FR1ENDS also last chance 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. to purchase a raffle ticket for great All proceeds Will go towards the Charlie Morris·on Scholarship FuD.d. SEE Y·OU THERE!! . . prizes 2/$1.00 TONIGHT, MAY 19.

CONCORDlENSIS, May 19, 1988 Page 15 SCIENC~E AND· TECHNOLOGY Space Capsule - · SOviets :Loo·k To·ward. Mars . ' . By MARTY HECK decreased resistance to germs shownthat by rotating a cageto and other bacteria. Infections • speeds that create forces 'I'h·e retur-n of Soviet ar.emuch easierto.pickup ~om .nearly equivalent to the Earth's Astronaut Yuti Romanenko in contaminated food ·or other gravitational pull greatly December frQm a 326-day items. Most serious isthe loss of reduced physical deterioration mission Spi,ice. h.a~ helped bone calCiwnastro.nauts suffer. in rats in space. consoiid~te S~?v:let ·.plans for a Romanentto exercised every ' There a . great number of mission to Mar~: . day of his mlssion, incluc\ipg problems. The process is irn· While s~me scientists met last isotonic, or muscle ... resistance,. perfect, expensive and likely to month with scientists from the e:21:ercise. Romanenko's strict take a long time to develop. One United . States ·· to discuss ·exercise regimen, along v.ith technical difficulty is the fact possil>le · landing .sites, others doses of hormones and vitamin that in a rotating section, the have been examir)ing mission D kept his calcium loss to five subjects feet. will be trav~ling requirements .from a human percent, a surprisingly lo'! faster, and thus ex:periencing perspecti~e. A manned mission number. However, astronauts stronger \gravity\ than the to Mars -Would take fifteen to on a Mars mission would not subject's feet. This causes eighteen. · months, and just need to remain healthy, balance and movement astronauts would certainly they would have to remain in problems. In order for artificial .experience a wide variety . of prime physical condition to gravity to Work, the radius .of complications being in ~pace for complete the rigorous physical the spinning section must be such a long, period of time. -, ~ctivity necessary to complete v~stly larger than the height ·of Extended · ·. pe,riods of a ,successful Mars mission. In the astronaut. This makes for weightlessness experienced by hopes to attain this level of an extremely large spacecraft. , ROmanenko and all astronauts physical health, Soviet scien~ Before the mission to Mars cause a number of discomforts, tists are bopingto equip the ship takes plaee, scientists must also along._with sotne mor.e serious to Mars with.~rtificial gravity. learn how to protect astronauts mal~dies. Space sickness, Artificial gravity is not a new from solar flares and the in· nausea, dizziness, and idea. Famous science-fiction creased radiation· they would headaches, affect more than author Arthur C. Clarke (2001: encounter on the trip. Even with half of all astronauts. These .A Space Odyssey et al) used the all these problems, the mission symptoms are caused by ·the idea decades ago. His could be on t~ack for the hoped~ collection of a quart of blood in · astronauts traveling to Jupiter for lam~ching early next cen~ the upper half of the body. This would live in a spacecraft which tury. Technology is growing at a condition generally disappears 'contained a rotating section, a rapid ra~e, and in 20 years, in a couple of days but is centrifuge, the outer edges of there may easily be men on sometimes more ·serious, which ·would create fotces Mars. May 21st THE ·GARDENS depending on the astronaut's sijnilar to gravity. Thil' is much ------------....----- own metabolism. In the long like the Soviet idea. Soviet A. ,. e J e _rtm_._a_st __ r_o_na_u_t __ s_s_u£_£_er_fr_o_m-a __ e_x_p_er_im_ .. _en_t_s_w-.it ..... h_r_at_s_h_av_e_ • - rip to Up· Iter By KRISTEN J. BERNER so that a day on Jupiter is just under ten hours in length . as oppossed to the twenty-four hQl.ll'& . in,, a day .on Earth. Temperatures on Jupiter range from 25,000 degrees Celcius at the core to -110 degrees Celcius at its cloud tops. sp·s Sp:onsors - Phy,si.c.s Colloquium By .BJ!l€1WK'OOPMANN· .. ' ... 'Y::re$earcli, ·. reci'eived . it :· 'Nobei . The Society of Physics Students will sponsor tonight's Physics Colloquim, \Looking at Supernova Explosions.\ The seapker will be Elena Aprile- Giooni, a native of Italy and now a professor at Columbia University. ~ · Aprile..(}iboni received. •. , her Ph.D. ~ physics in Ita!~h'She did post-doctoral · work at Harvard with Carlo Rubbia and participated in the discovery of. the Z and W particles (which carry the weak force in particle i,nteractions) at the European Center for ~uclear Research fCERN) in Switzerland. (Rubbia, who directed the Prize for this discovery.) Since 1986, Arpile-Giboni has been a professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at Coltirtlbia. Aprile-Giboni's interest lies in the application of high pressure particle . physics in- strumentation to astrophysics. She will be talking with the Union High Energy Group about a possible collaboration to develop bigh pressure detectors for use in satellite-based space observation of gamma-ray sources, like supernovae. . Thetalk wiUbe at 4:45p.m. in Steinmetz· 106. Refteshmenrs · Will be served at 4:30p.m. PHYSICS COtlO'QUIUM ' \ ••tooking Rt Sup·ernoua ·EH·J)Iasions·· With A Liquid He·on Detector• . -.... . Have you ever wondered what Jt wot!ld beJik:e to visit another. ·pt::Uftff!' ; - . . . . . . · Of the eight to choose· from (hot counting the Earth) .in this solar system, Jupiter is the largest. Its mass is 318 times that of the earth accounting for 70 percent o~ all the mass in the solar system other than the sun. Jupiter's. equatorial diameter is 143,800 km, more than eleven times that of the Earth. It is the fifth planet from the sun, and is at an averagediStail.ce of a half- billion miles from the sun. Because of this, J11piter requires. 11.86 years to revolve aroWid the sun; in other words., a year on .Jupiter is nearly 12 Earth years. However, it rotates on its axis very quickly, \ The planet consists of 82 percent hydrogen, 17 percent helium, and one percent other materials. It is though to have a rocky core, surrounded by 40,000 krn thick liquid metallic hydrogen and an outer layer 20,000 krn thick with molecular hydrogen. The visible features of Jupiter include many bands of colors called belts and zones, and a PFOminent red spot. The red spot itself can be as large as three times the diameter of the Earth, but varies in size. It is The Minerva Hour caused by a huge high pressure area of opposing windstreams, much like a hurricane on Earth. The colored,.bands are caused by layers of atmosphere of different temperatures, but the reason for the various colors is not known. Jupiter had one ring discovered by Voyager I in 1979; the ring consists' of par~ ticles thought to range from microscopic to a few meters in diameter. In addition, Jupiter is orbited by 16 moons. Scientists speculate that life could exist on Jupiter in layers of atmosphere where temperature and pressure resemble Earth's; it is almost certain that organic molecules exist there. Overall, Jupiter would be an interesting place to visit, but you probably wouldn't want to live there. Professor Elena flprile-Giboni Department lif Phgsics and Astronomy Columbia Uniuersity The Minerva Committee of Union College Presents: Thursday_, May 19,1988 4:45pm Sleinmetz Hall, Room 1 06 Refre·shments UJiJI: be serued~. All are welcome.! P .. HYSICS . ' . . . -SPONSORED BY S~PS- R:AL.J:'H ALPHER, distinguished professor of physics at Union, joined the coi.lege after 33 years on the research staff for General Electric Corp. Alp her, who earned his PhD. From George Washington University in 19.48, is perhaps best known for his work with other scientists on nucleosynthesis in an evolving universe, now known as the \big bang\ theory·. He is a member ot a group of area scientists who oppose the proposed .. Star Wars'' defense system. THURSDAYS 11 AM· MAY 22 1-4 PM. All lectures Are In The Union_ College Center Auditorium. · · All Are Welcome. Admission Free. For Information: (518) 370 .. 6508. , RICE ESTRTE , . ~:_ •.. :.:· .~ _ .... , .. -·· .... ...

Page 16 CONCORDJENSJS., May 19, 1988 ~--··. - -· ... INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Off the Beaten Track ~ An Excursion to Tibet ~ySTEPHEN BARRETT Last fall, following the con- On the second pass. clusion of our studies in Nan· I= jing, China, Kal Patel., Stefan ~ Jaeger, and 1 boarded a train ~ and· headed west. Our :z destination was Lhasa, the ~ ancient capital of Tibet, and 1±1 then we were to continue on to Ui Kathmandu, Nepal. Ever since Eii we received the news of mu- ~ acceptance into the China ~ program, Stefan and I planned a.. on making the excursion to the Tibetan Plateau, ''the roof of the World.\ 'Tibet was once an independent nation, but since 1959 it has been a province of the People's Republic of China. Kal, with his sense of ad· venture, was. easily convinced to join us. The Majesty of Hong Kong But it wasn't as simple as hopping on a train and all of a sudden being there. Over the summer we were informed that monsoons had washed o.pt m~ch of the Friendship Highway, the major route from Lhasa to Kathmandu. Whether or not the highway would be repaired before we set out was very uncertain, and we were ad- vised to seriously consider an alternate travel plan by the terms abroad guru, Prof. Thomas. We refused stubbornly to even consider another route and were optimistic the road would be repaired in time. Then while in Nanjing, we heard of the October riots in. Lhasa, which further confused our travel plans. We were told that fereigners wer~ not allo~M into Tibet because of their par- ticipation in the uprising. Yet several officials at Nanjing Teachers' University, our place of study and ~ome for three months, told us we would have no problem visiting because of our status as foreign students. We learned not to take anything we were told seriously while we were in China, particluarly anything .related to politics. By JEANNE M. DALEY The traveler arrives at night. It is pitch black outside, save for the myriad of lights hovering below. This is the serenity of what we call Hong Kong. The winds of the plane tilt to the right until they are in danger of grazing the tops of buildings. From the plane one can see the faces of the old men on the smallest of the boats in the harbor. Thirty seconds later, the wings dip again, appearing to skim the water, and the plane has landed. Then, without consent or re-quest, the traveler and his luggage are hurled into a Ui:lti and whisked off to ·one of the area's many hotels. \ After a night's sleep one wakes to find that exotic night replaced by a melee of colors, sights, and sounrls. And more likely than not the newcomer finds himself wondering just hQW many colors this chameleon has. One hundred and fifty years ago the island of Hong Kong was taken forcibly from the Manchu Dynasty to serve as a base for British trade. In the next 60 years, part ofthe mainland and a few smaller islands were added. The five and a half million inhabitants of these combined areas form the British Crown Colony possession called Hong Kong. In 1984 London and Beijing reached an agreement · which will have a great impact on Hong Kong, and may serve to once again change its color. In 1997 HongKong will be returned to the People's Republic of China. How will- this change Hong Kong? Hong Kong's population is 98 percent Chinese. Some of these are emigres, others are natives. They range from those who sleep on the streets, those who sell on the streets; and those who own the streets. And, of course, there are the foreigners; the British who would bristle at the term, as well as Americans, French, · Koreans and Japanese. English is spoken on equal footing with Chinese, and every aspect of the lifestyle eiBp~es the multiplicity of its personality. Now, capitalist Hong Kong will be placed in the care of conununist China. As a great financial, business, and in- dustrill! center, . Hong. Kong could~ in sucb an arrangemen~, undergo a drastic change: ~t IS for this re8SOI'l that .proVISions were made linder the treaty. China bas agreed that after 1997 Hong Kong wW remain semi· autonomous and will continue to be eapttiiJat for ·another 60 years as Administrative China. a Special Region of So, 50 years remain in which to mingle in the airs, not air, of Hong Kong. Hong Kong has become synonymous with SHOP!! Even those who hate to shop find themselves trapped within the impetus of Hong Kong. Every street is filled with shops, some expensive, some cheap, and some which have gone to extravagant lengths to look genuine. But, all of them are, in every sense of the word, cheap. Hong Kong's cheap is peculiar in that it is cheap with the promise of becom.ing cheaper. The thrill of haggling leads to more streets and more potential bargains and treasures. Aside from shopping, Hong Kong is ·filled with restaurants of every type. You can ·choose from among Chinese, Viet- namese, Indian, Pakistani, or one of the 300 McDonalds which are . randomly splattered throughout the streets. At night, the trip to Victoria's Peak is an exhilarating ex- perience. The bus ride itself leaves one's heart in one's throat, or, perhaps, stomach. Once at the top the entirety of mainland Hong Kong and Kowloon Island lie below their . lights glimmering. Despite what one chooses to do there they will be captivated by its moods. Every inch of the city is an adventure and for at least another 59 years, will remain so. We left Nanjing with our fate still very muclt· uncertain. We remained optimistic but knew we really had no control over the final outcome. We traveled west by train through China's interior to the city of Chengdu, the staging point for flights to Lhasa. There were many foreigners in Chengdu and we . soon discovered that no plane tickets to Ulasa had been sold to foreignen in two months. My friends and I had ~ome prepared with a telex ·of our In:tormational Meeting About The ~el Tel\Dl Abroad Monday May 23rd 7:00 pm SS0.12 RefreSiunems··willlle served. AppU~tions available~ : . .. . . A chance to 'talk with students who have gone on this term abtoad · hotel reservations (at the Lhasa Holiday Inn no less which was like findin~ McDonalds in the middle of the sahara Desert), a letter .of introduction from Nanjing Teachers' UniveFsity's v,ice president, who was a delegate to the 13th Connnunity Party Congress earlier in the fall, and our ability to com· municate in Chinese. The moment of reckoning came, and we made our way to the CAAC (the Chinese Natianal Airline} ticket office to plead our case. We talked to a group ·of Swedish people we ~ran irito on the way and they laUghed at us when we told them where we were going. We explained our plan to them and they informed us that a booked tout recently was refused .entry from Nepal. If this was true, our plan. ap- peared ta be useless. We made our way to the ticket office for the fir&'t tiine doubting our chances and cansidering alternative routes·in China. We walked into the ticket .office and there was no attendant at the booth far Lhasa tickets. Things looked incredibly bleak. We walked up to the adjacent .. window and said we wanted to purchase· plane tickets to Lhasa. With nothing else said, the attendant started the procedure of selling a plane ticket. I must say it was the biggest surprise of my short life.. The tickets were con· siderably more expt;!nsive than we had read, so we found ourselves -with. the opport~.ity to buy tickets tb Lhasa; but with our money in our dormitory room across town and the ticket office closing in twenty minutes. We asked if we could pay for part of them im- mediately, and pay the rest and pick up the tickets the next day. He told us to just come back in the morning when we had the money. We knew that just becausethe tickets were on sah~ at the moment, there was no guarantee that they would be available the next day, no matter what the attendant told us. Luckily Kal ha<1 an American Express card, so we ran as fast as we could across the street to the tourist hotel, and without knoWing how much money he had already used on it (such things became unim· portant in our quest to see the isolated anmysticalland), got a cash advance to cover the cost ofthe plane tickets. We made it back to the surprised attendant just h1 time to secure our seats on the plane leaving in two days. We saw the Swedish people in the tourist hotel, where we went to relax and fully grasp what had just taken place and they jealoUsly, and bitterly, said they'd believe it when they got a postcard from us. l hope they .received it. We flew to Tibet, an ad· venture . in itself, and spent seven days in ·Lhasa where daytime temperatures reached the &O's but dropped well below freezing at niglJ,t. The first couple of days were spent recovering frQm altitude si<ckness--a BLlSTERJNG headache and weakness. We left Lhasa and traveled by Land- cruiser via the Friendship Highway to the Chinese- Nepaleseboi'der with a Tibetan refugee, 'Iashi, whom we met in Lhasa. Tashi said be hadto rush to Kathmandu because,. tie explained in his broken English, his f<tther was \serious.\ We didn't ask questions because Tashi agreed to pay for half of the landcruiser and with our newly limited financial situation, that's all we needed to know. Tashi's family, or wnat was left of it, t1ed Tibet after tne defeated rebellion against the Chinese in 1959, and they now . own a ''business\ in India. We ventured ··across the Tibetan Plateau which involved two days of breathtaking passes .and dusty, desolated flatlands en· compassed by moon-like higl1lalJ:ds, b:tcl\lQipK a clear view of·ttie rtoiib.· fa¢e of ·Mt. Everest on the horizon. We gra<i_ually learned. that Tashi's fatll.er wasn't \serious\ and waSjj't even in Kathmandu, but that'·1'ashihad acq:uired a rare Tibetan antique fu Tibet and w8ts ;:smuggling it across' the bot'der to Sell in Kathmandu wr a l:a~ge profit. He, like niost ot th~~~1,'ibetans we met, was ex- treh1ely g.enerous an.d .we atfe'ed, without really di~c~ssing it, to help him in any wgy__ we could. A}ong the two da)hirive, he often spoke to us of~ 1 ·1!he atrocities committed agf}inst his people by· the Ciiin·ese and' asked us to write books about. it when we w'ent back to the United States. · While passing through th~ Himalayas our landcruiser g~t stuck in a snow drift. Tashi and the· Tibetan driver walked an hour down into the· valley to a lone dwelling to inquire about a Continued on page 17 THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH Afghanistan: Soviet troops began pulling out.of the country after more than eight years of war. Lebanon: Syrian troops and tanks ma..c:sed outside southern Beirut and the army said it would move into Shiite Moslem slums and shoot ~ kill if rival mili:ti~.~S don't end a 10 day-old bloodba~h. Kuwait: The Reagan adminisu:a~ol1 is backing a r~uest by Kuwait to buy F-18 Fighter-bombers. If appr('Jved by Congress, it'W(Yqld be the fust sale of advanced warplanes to an Arab country. Cyprus: A bomb exploded near the Israeli Embassy, killing three people. Poland: Workers ended a strike at a Gdansk shipyard without an agreement. Pa11ama: Banks rcc;.pen~ for ljmh~~ withdrawal!> for the first time · since a U.S. engineered cash crisis :Degan 2.moths a~o, bu~ h~mob~ of angry depositors predicted by opponents of Gen. Nonega didn t rnatetialize. ·' . Soar~e: Wall Siree~ Journal, .J)S/10A)5/t6 , •• '• c.: ·. . .. ',•'

Page 16 CONCORDJENSJS, May 19, 1988 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Off the Beaten Track - An Excursion to Tibet ~y STEPHEN BARRETT Last fall, following the con- clusion of our studies in Nan- ~ jing, China, Kal Patel, Stefan a: Jaeger, and I boarded a train ~ and headed west. Our z destination was Lhasa, the ~ ancient capital of Tibet, and w then we were to continue on to ~ Kathmandu, Nepal. Ever since Eil we received the news of our S acceptance into the China ::c program, Stefan and I planned On the second pass. a. on making the excursion to the Tibetan Plateau, \the roof of the world.\ Tibet was once an independent nation, but since 1959 it has been a province of the People's Republic of China. Kal, with his sense of ad- venture; was easily convinced to join us. The Majesty of Hong Kong But it wasn't as simple as hopping on a train and all of a sudden being there. Over the smnmer we were informed that monsoons had washed o.pt much of the Friendship Highway, the major route from Lhasa to Kathmandu. Whether or not the highway would be repaired before we set out was very uncertain, and we were ad- vised to seriously consider an alternate travel plan by the terms abroad guru, Prof. Thomas. We refused stubbornly to even consider another route and were optimistic the road would be repaired in time. Then while in N anjing, we heard of the October riots in Lhasa, which further confused our travel plans. We were told that foreigners were not allowed into Tibet because of their par- ticipation in the uprising. Yet several officials at Nanjing Teachers' University, our place of study and home for three months, told us we would have no problem visiting because of our status as foreign students. We learned not to take anything we were told seriously while we were in China, particluarly anything related to politics. By JEANNE M. DALEY The traveler arrives at night. It is pitch black outside, save for the myriad of lights hovering below. This is the serenity of what we call Hong Kong. The winds of the plane tilt to the right until they are in danger of grazing lhe tops of buildings. From the plane one can see the faces of the old men on the smallest of the boats in the harbor. Thirty seconds later, the wings dip again, appearing to skim the water, and the plane has landed. Then, without consent or request, the traveler and his luggage are hurled into a taxi and whisked off to one of the area's many hotels. · After a night's sleep one wakes to find that exotic night replaced by a melee of colors, sights, and sounrls. And more likely than not the newcomer finds himself wondering just how many colors this chameleon has. One hundred and fifty years ago the island of Hong Kong was taken forcibly from the Manchu Dynasty to serve as a base for British trade. In the next 60 years, part of the mainland and a few smaller islands were added. The five and a half million inhabitants of these combined areas form the British Crown Colony possession called Hong Kong. In 1984 London and Beijing reached an agreement which will have a great impact on Hong Kong, and may serve to once again change its color. In 1997 Hong Kong will be returned to the People's Republic of China. How will this change Hong Kong? Hong Kong's population is 98 percent Chinese. Some of these are emigres, others are natives. They range from those who sleep on the streets, those who sell on the streets, and those who own the streets. And, of course, there are the foreigners; the British who would bristle at the term, as well as Americans, French, Koreans and Japanese. English is spoken on equal footing with Chinese, and every aspect of the lifestyle emphasizes the multiplicity of its personality. Now, capitalist Hong Kong will be placed in the care of communist China. As a great financial, business, and in- dustrial center, Hong Kong could in such an arrangement, unde~go a drastic change: ~t is for this reason that proVISions were made under the treaty. China has agreed that a!ter 1~ Hong Kong will remam serru· autonomous and will continue to be capitalist for another 50 years as a Special Administrative Region of China. So, 50 years remain in which to mingle in the airs, not air, of Hong Kong. Hong Kong has become synonymous with SHOP! ! Even those who hate tu shop find themselves trapped within the impetus of Hong Kong. Every street is filled with shops, some expeHsive, some cheap, and some which have gone to extravagant lengths to look genuine. But, all of them are, in every sense of the word, cheap. Hong Kong's cheap is peculiar in that it is cheap with the promise of becoming cheaper. The thrill of haggling leads to more streets and more potential bargains and treasures. Aside from shopping, Hong Kong is ·filled with restaurants of every type. You can choose from among Chinese, Viet- namese, Indian, Pakistani, or one of the 300 McDonalds which are randomly splattered throughout the streets. At night, the trip to Victoria's Peak is an exhilarating ex- perience. The bus ride itself leaves one's heart in one's throat, or, perhaps, stomach. Once at the top the entirety of mainland Hong Kong and Kowloon Island lie below their lights glimmering. Despite what one chooses to do there they will be captivated by its moods. Every inch of the city is an ad.venture and for at least another 59 years, will remain so. We left Nanjing with our fate still very much uncertain. We remained optimistic but knew we really had no control over the final outcome. We traveled west by train through China's interior to the city of Chengdu, the staging point for flights to Lhasa. There were many foreigners in Chengdu and we soon discovered that no plane tickets to Lhasa had been sold to foreigners in two months. My friends and I had come prepared with a telex ·of our Informational Meeting About The Israel Term Abroad Monday May 23rd 7:00 pm SS012 Refreshments will be served. Applications available. A chance to talk with students who have _g_one on this tenn abroad hotel reservations (at the Lhasa Holiday lnn no less which was like finding McDonalds in the middle of the Sahara Desert), a letter of introduction from Nanjing Teachers' University's Vice president, who was a delegate to the 13th Community Party Congress earlier in the fall, and our ability to com- municate in Chinese. The moment of reckoning came, and we made our way to the CAAC (the Chinese National Airline) ticket office to plead our case. We talked to a group of Swedish people we ran irito on the way and they laughed at us when we told them where we were going. We explained our plan to tJilem and they informed us that a booked tour recently was refused entry from Nepal. If this was true, our plan ap- peared to be useless. We made our way to the ticket office for the first time doubting our chances and considering alternative routes in China. We walked into the ticket office and there was no attendant at the booth for Lhasa tickets. Things looked incredibly bleak. We walked up to the adjacent window and said we wanted to purchase plane tickets to Lhasa. With nothing else said, the attendant started the procedure of selling a plane ticket. I must say it was the biggest surprise of my short life. The tickets were con- siderably more expensive than we had read, so we found ourselves with the opportunity to buy tickets to Lhasa, but with our money in our dormitory room across town and the ticket office closing in twenty minutes. We asked if we could pay for part of them im- mediately, and pay the rest and pick up the tickets the next day. He told us to just come back in the morning when we had the money. We knew that just because the tickets were on sale at the moment, there was no guarantee that they would be available the next day, no matter what the attendant told us. Luckily Kal ha<t an American Express card, so we ran as fast as we could across the street to the tourist hotel, and without knowing how much money he had already used on it (such things became unim- portant in our quest to see the isolated an mystical land), got a cash advance to cover the cost of the plane tickets. We made it back to the surprised attendant just in time to secure our seats on the plane leaving m tw~ days. We saw the Swedish people in the tourist hotel, where we went to relax and fully grasp what had just taken place and they jealoasly, and bitterly, said they'd believe it when they got a postcard kom us. I hope they received it. We flew to Tibet, an ad- venture in itself, and spent seven days in Lhasa where daytime temperatures reached the 60's but dropped well below freezing at night. The first couple of days were spent recovering from altitude sickness--a BLISTERING headache and weakness. We left Lhasa and traveled by Land.- cruiser via the Friendship Highway to the Chinese- Nepalese border with a Tibetan refugee, Tashi, whom we met in Lhasa. Tashi said he had to rush to Kathmandu because, he explained in his btoken English, his father was \serious.\ We didn't ask questions because Tashi agreed to pay for half of the landcruiser and with our newly limited financial situation, that's aU we needed to know. Tashi's family, or wl1at was left of it, fled Tibet after the defeated rebellion against the C11inese in 1959, and they now own a \business\ in India. We ventured across the Tibetan Plateau which involved two days of breathtaking passes and dusty, desolated flatlands en- compassed by moon-like higt!lands, including a clear view of the north face of Mt. Everest on the horizon. We gradually learned that Tashi's father wasn't \serious\ and wasn't even in Kathmandu, but that Tashi had acquired a rare Tibetan antique in Tibet and was smuggling it across the border to sell in Kathmandu for a large profit. He, like most ot the Tibetans we met, was ex- tremely generous and we agreed, without really discussing it, to help him in any way we could. Along the two day drive, he often spoke to us of the atrocities committed against his people by the Chinese and asked us to Wl\ite books about it when we went back to the United States. While passing through the Himalayas our landcruiser got stuck in a snow drift. Tashi and the Tibetan driver walked an hour down into the valley to a lone dwelling to inquire about a Continued on page 17 THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH Afghanistan: Soviet troops began pulliag out of the country after more than eight years of war. Lebanon: Syrian troops and tanks massed outside southern Beirut and the anny said it would move into Shiite Moslem slums and shoot to kill if rival militias don't end a 10 day-old bloodbath. Kuwait: The Reagan administration is backing a request by Kuwait to buy F-18 Fighter-bombers. If approved by Congress, it would be the frrst sale of advanced warplanes to an Arab country. Cyprus: A bomb exploded near the Israeli Embassy, killing three people. Poland: W orkcrs ended a strike at a Gdansk shipyard without an agreement Panama: Banks reopened for limited withdrawals for the first time since a U.S. engineered cash crisis began 2 moths ago, but he mobs of angry depositors predicted by opponents of Gen. Noriega didn't materialize. Source: Wall Street Journal, 05/10-05/16

CONCORDJENSIS, Maf 19, 1988 . Page 17. INTE·RNATIONA~ FEATURES Sreng Escapes From Cambodia ByLINA NGAMTRAKULPANlT If you were asked to recall your childhood life, Y()lll' fond memories might lnclude family, friends, scho()ls, and girls but it was not so forSreng Van. Sreng was eleven years old when he left his homeland. His experience was n.ot a memorable one. Cambodia Is located in Southeast Asia. It borders ·Thailand on the west, Laos on the northeast, Vietnam on the west, as well as the Gulf of Thailand on the south. Prior to 1972, Cambodia was under Prince Norodom Seyhanok's supremacy. After 1972 a. mayor by the name of Lon NoJ came ' into power:, but he soon lost his power following an. . un- successful struggle against the Kbmer Rouge. Sreng Van~ a 19 year old,. Cambodian who is currEntly a freshman at Union, has given us the opportunitY to interview him about his life in Cambodia and how he arrived in the United States. · Sreng was about 11 years old when the Vietnamese Com- muniststook over Plu!om·Penh, · the capital City of~<:c:~mbodie~, and drove away the Khmer Rouge. He lived for 4: years under the Khmer Ro.uge before his family escaped t() the Thai border. Living under . the Khmer Rouge \was terrible,'' he said. ''You were not anowed another reason why Sreng and hi~ 'family decided to leave Cambodia. Sreng left Cambodia about fifteen days after the . Viet- namese Communists took over Phnom Penh. His .aWlt, uncle, his aunt's family and himself escape.d into the Thai border along With eighty other Cam- bodians,. There were two guides who direCted the way toward the border. Eaeb pe.-::son had to .pay a certain. fee iil gold. The gltid,es were Cambodians ·who made their liVing selling Thai goods to the Cambodians. The · group of eighty people left on foot after dark and marched toward the border. Sreng he~d no idea of what he was doing nor Where be was about to go. He said \one night my aunt and my Uncle just .came up and asked if l was ready. I se~id yes and $0 they said 'let's go.' The journey took 12 hours. . They were not allowed to use lights to guide their way sU.ce.they could have been easily spotted by the soldiers. They walked through the jungle, .and. rice fields after rice .fields. It was very scary,\ he said. \If you walked too .slow, . they would leave you behind. My aunt was very tired, so we stopped for awhile. We lost them. We were in the middle of the jungle, did not know Which way to go, no food, no lights all we did was pray to God to lead the way.\ The family kept on walking, following footprints, and finally, they.caught up with 'he group. to own anything, everything was common. For exsmple, all of the people would plant common rice .fields.'' Everyone Once he arid his 'family was made equal. Tile young reached the border, they joined wer~ being taught to b.ate thj!ir other . Cambo~an$ Uving i9. a parents and to · devote them- caiQp, set up by the Cambodian selves to their superi()rs and Nationalist soldiers to protect obey their orders. The Kbm.er the Cambodians from the Thai Rouge \killed many innocent soldiers. The Cambodians were people.\ They chose t<J kill the not allowed to come · into the professional .people; i.e., Thai vill~ge which was located soldiers, doctors, law:yers .and about one-half mile inland. college students. They \'~re Those who were .caught were afraid that these pe()ple ~ght bea~~n by the Thai sol~er~; have revolted against them. · Tha1 people ar~ very mce, Often bombs were caref,Wy - Sreng said. \They would offer buried undet the groUIId wJ;ie,:re us their h()mes ~~·hiding places town meetings were su.ppose<{to when the Thai ·soldiers came. be held. People were eva~:~ted When we reached the border of to the countryside, often wi~ll. a Thailand l kneW. I would be promise of returnimg ltoine going to a third country. I hoped soon. ~ for the day to come when I could When Sreng was asked \What go to France or to the U.S. I felt were the main reaSOllS which I could have a second life.\ forced you to leave your The situation became better homeland?'', he replied, once he reached Thailand. With ''starvation. There was not the help of the United Nations, enough food.\ He added, \The he was given food, shelter, and people were given 'gtilod f()od' schoolli)g. The $Chools were every two to three months just free. The youn·g · stud1ed enough to keep them alive~ Cambodian and Chinese After that \you. could count aH Literature, Mathematics, Arts the bones;'' Srengsaidj()kingly, and sports. The schools were until another two .cJr three taUght mostly by Cambodian as months came by .and ••you well as Chinese college would become swollen again.\ students. It was there that his The family was f()rcEd to uncle, who worked as the head separate, the young were .~ot accountant in the Cambodian given any type of educatton. government, was interviewed The Communists wollld teach by an American immigration the young that they have no officer for an opportunity to family, no parents. 'ibis is come to the United States. The All God's Chillun Got Wings ... A story of unforgivable desire ®-ISU TABLE · Friday 12:30 Dutch HoUew. P.ub professional people were chosen for interviews first, while the laborers, and farmers were the last to be interviewed. '':Sasically they were trying to get people who were not Kluner Rouge.'' The Khmer Ro11ge were scattered, living .in the jungle and they too wanted freedom from the Vietnamese Communists. When Sreng was asked for his personal feelings toward the :Khmer rouge during those years they i>cc11pied Cambodia, he replied, \Those who killed people were just doing their job, the big.g.uy ju:st ordered them to kill. The people who killed others were uneducated. It was not their fault. It was the big guy's fault. They too wanted to survive and wanted to come with us.\ t; • d Each incomer was reqWl'e to have a sponsor in the count~:Y' which he wished to go. Sreng along with his uncle, aunt and a cousin all weFe sponsored by tile Catholic Church here In tile States. Sreng left Thailand md boarded a plane for- tile Philippines. It was in _ the Philippines where he first learned English. English is tatJght in a special schovl. c•r knew only 'Hi,' 'How are y()u• and 'Thank you.\' After four months in tll.e Philippines, Sreng boarde~ a plane headed for the Umted States. The trip took 24 ho11rs. It was his first. experience on a plane. He said with laughter, \I was nauseousj dizzy a~d sleepless, but I loved it I lt was like a second life. I was very happy,\ Sreng states. \1\ly dream came true.\ · Sren,g.is living in NYC and is very happy here n the States. \1 love the American people, especiallY girls,\ he said. His ambition is to join the Peace Corps Service for 1-2 years and go to Thailand or CainbDdia to help his people. His sec()nd dream is to pursue and M.D. degree here. \I left my C()Wltry not because I hated it, btlt because of political reasoJls. Freedom was what I wanted;\ he ended. Tibetan Continued from page 16 $pare shovel. It took a go(Jd two hoW's to dig ourselves out, bat what a place to be stuck f~r twc hoW'S with nothing to do bllt marvel at the frozen W()l)· derlandl Now we were pressed !for time. Dusk was alreaay setting in when we arrivea ln the tiny settlement of Nya,Iam, the last town before the border town of Zhangmu. There was a Chinese checkpoint in Nyalam, which made Tashi very 11er· vous. He would constantly consult as to where he should hide' the antique. He became 011r close friend. The officer at tile checkpoint told us that the road ahead, which desperately hugged the side of the valley, was im~ssable because it was blocked by snow. -rbere w.as no lodging m Nyarrun; ana the Eiltt of the day was upon us, so after a qUick discussion we decided to forge ahead. Zhangmu, we were told by our experien<:ed Tibetan driver (tbrough translation) was quite cl()se. lie had driven this.route for several y~ars. We plowed. tprougb several minor snowdrifts that sent chills qp my spine, but tlley were only a sign of what wa~to come. TheY gotlarget; readlitag aroUnd knee height, lllld the land cruiser was makin~ ~me terrifying horiZoptal motioll as we sw:ged . s.loWlf ahead .. · '11le nJghtmarisif~h~ugHt·, \Willthey , . GERMAN MOVIE \HUNGER YEARS IN A RICH CO UN TRY\ 1979,·directed by Jutta Bruckner. This film deals with the love-hate relationship of a m.other and daughter in postwar Germany. The conflict is brought on by the generation gap of two different eras. MONDAY, MAY 23 AT 8.:00 P.M. -CC 406_:_ • end?'' rushed through my mind, our previous experience, except but. then a lonely figu.,e ap- that we were n()\V veterans to peared ahead and waved us such life-risking excitement and down. We were told that it werealmost.readytoacceptour would be impossible to round fate regardless (}f which path it the next corner because of a took. We spent the nelct week in monstrous snowdrift. We again Kathmandu relanng, believing discussed our options and each webadhadourfillof adventure. one seemed hopeless, twning For many · UKnion College back, continuing on, or trying to students, survivillg Schenec- suvive the night in the land- tady is adventur()u.s enough. But cruiser. We decidedthat looking I don't mean to break your forward was o.ur only choice. heart when I :tell. you that We were so scared we were Schenectady is mt Jife; nor is laughing; I think it was the United States. The terms something botderiltg . . on abroad programs o~fer people a hysteria. We reached tile olr · chance to plot the1r course of stacle and got out to examine it destination, to· plan their own and our prospects of conquering adventure. I can $ay that it was it. It was calm around the the smartest tiling I've done comer-no more snowdrifts. We since I arrived. And if you're jumped on the snowdrift trying lucky, you may learn something to pack down the S!JOW to ease too. the vehicle's transport. Sud- ,_....-----------. denly the landcruiser came towards .us, the Tibetan driver its lone occupant. Through the heap of snow it went sliding out w·r··· te of control, teashing the cliff'S edge ·until it reached tbe op- for. posite side, just around the end, victorious. For the rest o{ I .. . • I the s~ort trip to Zhangmu we nternatlona were m a state that few people . . . · everfeel·happyto be alive. The Fea·t·ures ne.t day we rode atop a huge · , flatbed truck from Zhangmu customs to the border on a road seriousiy. damaged by land· mi.de8. '11~. may ~ave rivaled a- ........ ..,....__._ ____ _. __ ... .. . '·

CONCORDIENSIS, May 19, 1988 Page 17 INTE·RNATIONAL FEATURES Sreng Escapes From Cambodia ByLINA NGAMTRAKULPANIT If you were asked to recall your childhood life, your fond memories might include family, friends, schools, and girls but it was not so for Sreng Van. Sreng was eleven years old when he left his homeland. His ex~erience was not a memorable one. Cambodia is located in Southeast Asi;;t. It borders ·Taailand on the west, Laos on the northeast, Vietnam on the west, as well as the Gulf of Thailand on the south. Prior to 1972, Cambodia was under Prince Norodom Seyhanok's supremacy. After 1972 a mayor by the name of Lon Nol came into power, but he soon lost his power following an un- successful struggle against the Khmer Rouge. Sreng Van, a 19 year old Cambodian who is currently a freshman at Union, has given us the opportunity to interview him about his life in Cambodia and how he arrived in the United States. Sreng was about 11 years old when the Vietnamese Com- mWlists took over Phnom Penh, the capital city of Cambodia, and drove away the Khmer Rouge. He lived for 4 years l:lllder the Khmer Rouge before his family escaped to the Thai border. Living under the Khmer Rouge \was terrible,\ he said. \You were not allowed to own anything, everything was common. For example, all of the people would plant common rice fields.\ Everyone was made equal. The young were being taught to hate their parents and to devote them- selves to their superiors and obey their orders. The Khmer Rouge \killed many innocent people.\ They chose to kill the professional people; i.e., soldiers, doctors, lawyers and college students. They were afraid that these people might have revolted against them. Often bombs were carefully buried under the ground where town meetings were supposedto be held. People were evacuated to the countryside, often with a promise of returning home soon. When Sreng was asked \What were the main reasons which forced you to leave your homeland?\ he replied, \starvation. There was not enough food.\ He added, \The people were given 'good food' every two to three months just enough to keep them alive. After that \you could count all the bones,\ Sreng said jokingly, until another two or three months came by and \you would become swollen again.\ The family was forced to separate, the young were not given any type o~ education. The Communists would teach the young that they have no family, no parents. This is another reason why Sreng and his family decided to leave Cambodia. Sreng left Cambodia about fifteen days after the Viet- namese Communists took over Phnom Penh. His aunt, uncle, his aunt's family and himself escaped into the Thai border along with eighty other Cam- bodians. There were two guides who directed the way toward the border. Each person had to pay a certain fee in gold. The guides were Cambodians who made their Uving selling Thai goods to the Camoodians. The group of eighty peeple left on foot after dark and marched toward the border. Sreng hadno idea of what he was doing nor where he was about to go. He said \one night my aunt and my uncle just came up and asked if I was ready. I said yes and so they said 'let's go.' The journey took 12 hours. They were not allowed to use lights to guide their way since they could have been easily spotted by the soldiers. They walked through the jungle, and rice fields after rice fields. It was very scary,\ he said. ''If you walked too slow, they would leave you behind. My aunt was very tired, so we stopped for awhile. We lost them. We were in the middle of the jungle, did not know which way to go, no food, no lights all we did was pray to God to lead the way.\ The family kept on walking, following footprints, and finally, they caught up with •.he group. Once he and his family reached the border, they joined other Cambodians living in a camp, set up by the Cambodian Nationalist soldiers to protect the Cambodians from the Thai soldiers. The Cambodians were not allowed to come into the Thai village which was located about one-half mile inland. Those who were caught were beaten by the Thai soldiers. Thai people are very nice~\ Sreng said. \They would offer us their homes as hiding places when the Thai soldiers came. When we reached the border of Thailand I knew I would be going to a third country. I hoped for the day to come when I could go to France or to the U.S. I felt I could have a second life.\ The situation became better once he reached Thailand. With the help of the United Nations, he was given food, shelter, and schooling. The schools were free. The young studied Cambodian and Chinese Literature, Mathematics, Arts and sports. The schools were taught mostly by Cambodian as well as Chinese college students. It was there that his uncle, whc worked as the head accountant in the Cambodian government, was interviewed by an American immigration officer for an opportunity to come to the United States. The All God's Chillun Got Wings ... A story of unforgivable desire 'ISU TABLE Friday 12:30 Dutch Hollow Pub professional people were ch@sen for interviews first, while the laborers, and fanners were the last to be interviewed. \Basically they were trying to get people who were net Kluner Rouge.\ Tbe Khmer Rouge were scattered, living in the jungle and they too wanted freedom from the Vietnamese Communists. When Sreng was asked for his personal feelings toward the Khmer rouge during those years they occupied Cambodia, he replied, \Those who kHled people were just doing their job, the big guy just ordered them te kill. The people who killed others were uneducated. It was not their fault. It was the big guy's fault. They too wanted to survive and wanted to come with us.\ Each incomer was required to have a sponsor in the country which he wished to go. Sreng along with his uncle, aWit and a cousin all were sponsored by the Catholic Church here m the States. Sreng left Thailand and boarded a plane for the Philippines. It was in _the Philippines where he first learned English. English is taught in a special school. \I knew only 'Hi,' 'How are you' and 'Thank you.'\ After four months in the Philippines, Sreng boarded a plane headed for the United States. The trip took 24 hours. It was his first experience on a plane. He said with laughter, \I was nauseous, dizzy and sleepless, but I loved it! It was like a second life. I was very happy,\ Sreng states. \My dream came true.'' Sreng is living in NYC and is very happy here n the States. \I love the American people, especially girls,\ he said. His ambition is to join the Peace Corps Service for 1-2 years and go to Thailand or Cambodia to help his people. His second dream is to pursue and M.D. degree here. \I left my coWltry not because I hated it, but because of political reasons. Freedom was what I wanted,\ he ended. Sreng Van International Issue by Ai:me. Sitnao illtermational Featur&S Editor Do y&u think tbttt the Senate wlll ratify the lNF treaty !:before the summit mooting May 29th? Wily?' Stephanie Archibald (S8) and Ray Asbl~l' (89) • No, it's not going to be ratified at this time ~us;e t.hete are enQugll congresm~en in office now that · will consider the impact that it would hive on the defense indus.tty. ·Aiatl DeSalvo (88) • Yes. Because it is an election year,. and Proxmire and his l'e<Wtionary oohom are the mly politkians wh<J will benefit from the lNF treaty not be~ ratified. . $t~.Y.eu Cole (89) \ Thera $eems to be a lot of pressure from diverse groups . including the president for mtification. However, Reagan is a l<lme duck and has ·l¢st muCh of his infl;.uenee. Overall, since \retitkation procedures are defined, and .· this was a major obstacle.,. they may v-ou; in favor .. , l{im.bwly St<ev~ns (90) • :No, because the subject is too oontroversiaol for lhe $mate to contemplate. the pa$.11lng uf the t~ty·i>yMay Z9th. Th.e process is mucll •ilfhtlt4n1 • t !:hW:k :thai· b wbpld ile ~\;lpt ·for lbe s.mate to wait .. <. ~dtaps al,'li)' thattt;\' ~ the d~ate of relations caul4 ~eiUI;le$·s Qi'INF. ... . . . . ~~~ aq4 Republie~W wilt probably be GERMAN :MOVIE \HUNGER YEARS IN A RICH COUNTRY\ 1979,·directed by Jutta Bruckner. This film deals with the love-hate relationship of a mother and daughter in postwar Germany. The conflict is brought on by the generation gap of two different eras. MONDAY, MAY 23 AT 8:00 P.M. -CC 406- Tibetan Adventure .. • Continued from page 16 spare shovel. It took a good two hours to dig ourselves out, but what a place to be stuck for two hours with nothing to do but marvel at the frozen won- derland! Nowwewere pressed lfor time. Dusk was alreaily setting in wheri we arr1vect in the tiny settlement of Nyalam, the last town before the border town of Zhangrnu. There was a Chinese checkpoint in Nyalam, which made Tashi very ner- vous. He would constantly consult as to where he should hide the antique. He became our close friend. The officer at tne checkpoint told us that the road ahead, which desperately hugged the side of the valley, was impassable. because it was blocked by snow. There was no lodging in Nyruam; ana the enct of the day was upon us, so after a quick discussion we decided to forge ahead. Zhangm.u, we were told by our experienced Tibetan driver (through translation) was quite close. He had driven this route for several years. We plowed through several minor snowdrifts that sent chills up my spine, but they were only a sign of what was to come. They got larger, reaching around knee height~ and the land cruiser was making some terrifying horizontal motion as we surged slowly ahead. The nightmarish ;h~ught, \Will they our previous experience, except that we were now veterans to such life-risking excitement and were almost ready to accept our fate regardless of which path it took. We spent the next week in Kathmandu relaxing, believing we had had our fill of adventure. For many UKnion College students, surviving Schenec- tady is adventurous enough. But I don't mean to break your heart when I tell you that Schenectady is not life; nor is the United States. The terms abroad programs offer people a chance to plot their course of destination, to plan their own adventure. I can say that it was the smartest thing I've done since I arrived. And if you're lucky, you may learn something too. end?\ rushed through my mind, but then a lonely figure ap- peared ahead and waved us down. We were told that it would be impossible to round the next corner because of a monstrous snowdrift. We again discussed our options and each one seemed hopeless, turning back, continuing on, or trying to suvive the night in tlte land- cruiser. We decided that looking forward was our only choice. We were so scared we were laughing; I think it was something bordering on hysteria. We reached the ob- stacle and got out to examine it and our prospects of co11quering it. It was calm aroWld the corner-no more snowdrifts. We jwnped on the snowdrift trying to pack down the snow to ease the vehicle's transport. Sud- r------------, denly the landcruiser came towards us, the Tibetan driver its lone occupant. Through the heap of snow it went sliding out Wr. •If& of control, teashing the cliff's edge Wltil it reached the op- for posite side, just around the end, victorious. For the rest of I . • I the s~ort trip to Zhangmu we nternatlona were m a state that fe-w people everfeel-happyto be alive. The Features next day we rode atop a huge natbed truck from Zhangmu customs to the border on a road seriously damaged by land- slides. That may have rivaled'-----------

. ' Page 18 CONCORDIENSTS, May 19, 1988' ATTENTION STUDENTS: Message from Union College Dining Services Be;low is a convenient schedule for the rest of the term: May 20 FitzHugh Ludlow Day. All Units Closed for Dinner ·May 21-22 UCDH open for brunch & dinner. West College is Closed J\1ay 28th Camp Union. All Units Closed. · May 29th Both West College & UCDH Open for Brunch & Dinner •, . June 4 & 5 Both West College & UCDH will be open for Brunch & Dinner G'UARAITEED ANClN,G Q:UALIF:IED . B·UYERS!~* . ' .- ... FROM FORD TO . · · ATTENTICJN LADIES! THE GARNET . MINSTRELLES Will Be Ho]djng AUDITIONS For Next Year's Group During 9th Week. For More Info: Kate X4012 . Sharon X4281 Jennifer X6962 Or Look For Signs In The ARTS BUILDING! \SHOOT YOU,RSELF\ MAY 20TH 10 A.M.· 2 P.M. Outside The College Center MINIMAL ASSIST WITII YOUR DOWN PAYMENT. GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION. YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERVE IT! *With ProperQuali.fications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 19.9 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489-5414 AND THE CREDIT YOU·· DESERVE! . $400. CASH FROM .fO·RD . AND- PRE-APPROVED CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT. FORD i ! .. v I t ' r f t

I - l \. CONCO.RDIENSlS, .May 19, 1988 Page 19 •... ·.·,.·~.·.·.· , I ~ . '\·-_.. .·. :.il'!:':_ '- . ~ ....... . . . . . ' . FitzHugh Ludlow Preview: Mambo.-X By JIM MA-CLAUGHLIN Arts Editor Yes,. the time we've all been waiting for bas finally arrjved. It's time for all of us here at Union to gather outside, in various f(Jrm;s of semi• nakedness, t<~ catch. rays, throw frisbees, quaff ales, and listen to some great live music, In honor of Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, the springtime air of this fine college will once agaii) carry the wafting, throbbing, dulcet tones of \rock'n roll.'' The featured performer for this year's cj).mmencement of oUtdoor or,gi~s is :W:1ilnlba-X., a local band from Albany, Who will bring tbeir own uniq11e brand of music to Schenectady. Consi$ting of Erin O'Hara as vocalist, Seth. Kaufman on lead guitar, MitiChell Rosen [)n guitar, Dave Polloc\t on drums and bas!lr and Dennis Blaine 011 bass gUitar, Maznbo .. x came into being in November .of 1986. O'Hara, Kaufman and Rosen were the fc;>unding members of the band, cUlling their name from an alia$ of an obscene phone caller. Earlier this year they added the talents of Pollock and Blaine m an .effort to increase the output of power, funk, ami general, aU-around' karma to the ·rhyt;lun section. · The Mambo•X soimd is a difficult one to collar, as they profess a \world·music\ feel that draws comparisons to the music of Paul Simon's \Graceland\ album. With their distinctive gUitar oriEllltation and female vocals, the band also hints~ at the 10,000 Maniacs, but Pave Pollock sums the group's sDund up best with his statement~ \We ' get together and jam; what comes out is the sound.u Mambo uX i.s . currentlY tDa.rtce C{u6 Presents: ~~whose Side Are You On? .. -Nuclear War --Martin Luther King -No More Anything -Something Is In The Air Tonight promoting a seven song EP entitled \Machines of Eden.\ Twice atop the WRUC \top 8.97,\ \Machines of Eden\ (Trust Records) features the songs \Window Pains,\ and a Sunday, May 22nd at 2 pm Pedor:ming .Ads· St.uqi.qjnJJ'le Art~: ~.Yildin.g Come for an afternoon of D-ance you won't forget! ·ARTS ·BRIEFS Rok Against Reagonmx 1be last ann-ual festival will be held in Washingtop Park in Albany on Sunday, May 22 from 12 noon until 7 p.m. Music w:ill be provided by Glenn Weiser, Emilio Dabul, Scratch Your Head and Wilnder, Begonia, The--Stompl!stics, and E P'le;mnista. Also a olie~act play entitled \Littl~ Americus Bound\ will be performed !J'3:30 p.m. 3-D Plwtography. Exhibit WRUC THE NEW 8.97 Listen for Mambo-X and Slipknot on WRUC this w~ck to prepare yourselves f<>r Friday's musical eargasm. Next week listen for Let's Active, Treat Her Right and Eekamouse, to g.et ready for Camp Union. c'isten to WRUC and hear what's happening over our spring weekend. TW, Band 1 Thomas Dolby ARTS.& FILMS Albany based group Mambo-X cover ofT Rex's \Mambo Sun.\ The album is currently available in th.e Union College Bookstore. Slipknot, a perennial Union favorite, will lead off the Fit- . zhugh festivities, playing their usual excellent assortment .of originals, Dead covers, and other classic gems. Gaffe Lena Celebrates 28th Anniversary By JAN GOLDSTEIN Arts Flditor Special programs to com- morate Caffe Lena's 28th an- niversary are scheduled for this weekend, Friday-Sunday, May 20-22. On Friday and Saturday Cooney, one' of the· Caffe's most popular artist, will be featJ,lred. Cooney has been performing at the Caffe since 1966 and is billed as \A one-man fold festiVal.\ To accompany his enchanting tenor voice Cooney employs a variety of instrwnents, many archaic and handmade. He shifts between a six and twelve string guitar, four and five string banjo, concertina, pennywhistle and Jews harp. The music Cooney produces is ageless and the program diverse. His repertoire contains over 600 songs, ranging from traditional ballads to ragtime. Album Aliens Ate My Buick Cooney has performed for audiences throughout the U.S., Canada and the British Isles. His Friday and Saturday shows at The Caffe will begin at about 8:30p.m,. Virtuoso Hurdy-Gurdy artist Robert Mandel willcontinue the anniversary celebration on Sunday. Mandel , a trained musical instrument maker, has been devoted to promoting the use of the Hurdy-Gurdy and expanding its technical range. The Hurdy-Qurdy is a stringed .instrument played by turning with the right hand a handle which operates a rosined wheel It is similar to the violin. Mandel-and his Hurdy-Gurdy have accompanied nwnerous musical combinations including rock bands and various jazz groups. His instrumental ex- pertise will be featured at The Caffe at7:30. Label The New York State Museum will present a multi-media presentation featuring live performances and special effects from May 28 through May 30, 1988, highlighting the history of 3-D photography. Snows are at 1 and 2:30 p.m., and admissi{)n is $2 for adults ~nd $1.50 for children. Cosby Cancels 2 3 4 Camper Van Beethoven Primitive Pleasure Boom Crash Opera Our Beloved Revolutionary Sweetheart Jupitar Remote Boom Crash Opera EMI VirginMight Citadel Warner Virgin Sire Top Frontier Due to scheduling conflicts, comedial Bill Cosby has been forced to cancel the six city Northeast tour that would have brought hin1 to the Glens Falls Civic Center on June 4, 1988. All Ticketron tickets may be refunded at their place of purchase. All other tickets should be returned at the Civic Center 'Box Office. 5 6 7 8 8.97 \ Ziggy Marley Talking Fleads Young Caucasians Young Fresh Fellows Deacon Blue. The Melody Makers Naked· The Shroud of Elvis Totally Lost Rain town Cross gates Mall Cinema .THIS. WEEK'S ON CAMPUS MOVIES .. a Go.od Mo:rning Vietnam ... Fri, Sat, and Sun at 7, 9, and 11 p .. m. Jumpin' Ja'ck. Flash ... l Wee) 7, 9, and 11 p.m. ALL SHOWlNGS AT THE COLLEGE CENTER ,. . . . AUDITORIUM, $1 FOR ALL SHOWS. PLEASE, N:O FOOD QR BEYEr:lAGE ~LLOWED. 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 .g .. 10 11 12 Seventh Sign 1:25, 4:00, 7:10, 9:45 ' Dead Heat 2:1'0, 4:45, 7;50, 10:30 Milagro Bean Field 12:45 .• 3:25, 6:45, 9:40 Friday the 13th Part VII 2:00, 4:35,. 7:45, 9:40 Above The Law 1:30, 4:15, 7:25, 10:05 Shakedown 1:00, 4:35, 7:40, 10.25 Colo~s 1 :00, 3 :50, 7 :00. 9:50 Beetlejuice 12:25, 3:00, 6:15, 8:55 Biloxi Blues 12:40, 3:20, 6:20, 9:00 Willow 12:30, 3:30, 6:30, 9:3o Casual Sex 12:50, $:10, 6:40, 9:10 Blood Spor:t 1:15, 3:45, 6:50, 9:20 Coiumbia. i=ri. & Sat. ONLY 11:45 12:25 12:05 12:05 12:15 12:35 12:20 11:00 11 :10 12:10 11:05 '11.20 .....

' Page 20 CONCORDlENSlS, May 19, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS Guest HomiHst-Deacon Phil Daley, OFM who was ordained on April23 will assist as Deacon at the 7:30 p.m. SWlday Mass on May 22 and deliver the . homily. Congratulations Friar . Pbil,. thank you for the two years that you have been with the Folk Group & Newman Club , and best of luck to you as you · prepare for your priestly Or- dination. · . Reception-Sunday, May 22 . immediately following the 7 :30 p.m .. Liturgy the Union com- munity are invited to St. Jobn's rectory for a final reception for the school year: Please come to congratulate Friar Phil and bid him ~arewell. Newman Picnic-Monday, May 23, 5-7 p.m. Union students, faculty, staff and their families · are invited to Dutch Hollow Patio or in case of rain Cabaret · Pit. Please RSVP by Friday, May 20 to Sr. Joan's office, 370- 6087. Leave name and number attending. SCHOLARSHIPS The Business and The NY State Engergy Office is offering an internship whiGh involves a variety of technically oriented duties in support of progr.ams or . State regulations for energy efficiency in new and existing building design, con- struction, and rehabilitation; and in the mechanical and electrical equipment,· ap- pliances, and construction materials used in buildings. For more information contact the CDC. Sharon Wolin Productions !s offering specific internship positions in the fj.eld of \ideo- film production. More in- formation is available at the Center. CLASSIFIEDS Interested in politics? Make it pay with Citizen Action. We are now hiring canvassers to work on environmental and con- sumer campaigns. 2 - 10 p.m. $190 to $250 per week. Paid training. P.art time - full time. Call John at 465-4600. First Investors Cor.poration established since 1930, invites aU Capital District residents interested in an opportiUlity in the investment in-dustry to attend an informational seminar to become acquainted with our organization and the positions we have available here in Albany. Contact Murray Leonardson at 459-5415. Avoid th~ September REN- TAL CRUNCH; Spend one month's rent ($475) to hold a beautJ.tUl, completely furnished · flat until September. From 9~1 . · throughout the 'School year rent is $4 75-month plus utilities. This· 1st floor 2 bedroom flat is 1 mile from Union camp~ on a quiet street, near Price Chopper and Central Par:k.:,. in an owner- occupied l).ousE. Includes wall to wall carpet, refrigerator, stove, dishwasher, :microwave oven, · celiling fans and screen-storm windows. Full furnishings are included, or bring your own. References required at ap- plication. A refundable security deposit will . be collected in S e p te m be r . Q U I E T , RESPONSIBLE STUDENTS ONLY! Call Paul at 377-1266. Need l student for ap- proximately 9 months ta do radiation monitoring for Dept. of Energy -Science, Math, Lab- Science, background helpful. Location 1130 Central Ave., Albany, N.Y .Phone 482-0978 ask for Mike :Brown - $8.00..:hr primarlly day shift. Starting date mid May. Empire Vision Centers - 3 locations: Central Ave., Albany, Troy-Schenectady Rd., Latham Crossgates Plaza, Schenectady. peeking outgoing professienaUndividuals to work in doctor's office. Receptionist and Sales positions-Start at $5.00-hr. plus commissions with · scheduled r-aises. Positions will involve ~reeting patients, scheduling appointments, data entry-computer terminals, merchandising & eyeglass- frame selection. Professional working environment. No ex- perience necessary. We will train. Fllll and part-time Professional Women'!S Foun- dation announces a new scholarship fund to assist black women aged 25 and over. Scholarship awards of up to $500 will be made on a first come, first served basis to be used for tuition and-or books. Applications are available between February 1 - April 1 with an April 15 deadline and between July 1 - September l ·with a September 15 deadline. For more information and an application on the St. Paul Foundation send a self- addressed business-size · en- velope with two first class stamps to: The Business and Professional Wo'llen's FoWl- dation, 2012 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. BLOOM COUNTY World without War Councn- Midwest, a program dedicated to world affairs is offering the opportunity for college graduates· to gain valuable experience and leadership training in the world affairs field and the nongovernmental sector. Applications are dq.e on the first of June, and more information is available at the CDC. WNET.Channel 13 is once again offering students the opportWiity to gain valuable entry-level experience in a wide variety of disciplines which are directly related to either the broadcast communications industry in particular, or to business administration in general. For more information about these internships,, contact the CDC. A summer bou.sing iiltern is needed to work in the Schoharie County Community Action Program with A Cobleskill Village Zoning Officer~ Student should be able to plan in- terpretation as well as have knowledge of structural, mechanical and electrical construction. More information is available upon request at the CDC. WMIIT Is announcing its special Nelson A. Rockefeller Minority Intern Program for this summer of 1988. The in- ternship is o~n to all NY State minority high . school seniors and college undergraduates, and involves worKing with radio and television broadcasting. More lnfonnation can be at· tamed at the coc .. 13/LL .(/ 71115 /5 YOri~ FKIWCJ AN!7 RrJNNift/6- MATe OPfJ5/ 7H£ I'OUC~ Hf/Vt K€()rJ£516P f- '1..:1 1H~ FOt.L.OWIN& : ·\ !JIU/ SrrJP 5H()JT(N0 / Jr3!lNF3 KIKKf!TTKICK IS' ON 7Hf.. PHON€/! 57lJP 7HI?OWIN& WHI:JKEY 6017U6> liT JH£ M€/?1/l ... S7iJP 5/f()OTJN& AT Tiff£ Nef6H6iJR:l ... 1/N/J PVT7lff3 MACHfN~ brJN PtJWN.If I .:.\ 01? 1HE vt/ollftlY &W!l&bf1RT /1/fTHOfJ. CRYIN: positions. Flexible }lours. who can ddve - a van. 823 Positions available im- · Eastern Ave. 374-7785. mediately. Apply at any office; House · Sitting situation Ask for offke manager. wanted. Older returning Rankin Ave. Storage 393.;(1008 Monthly, yearly, sto11age of large items :such as autos, boats, furnit!li'e etc. Wanted......,Help wanted soon , with all types of work connected with a furniture store. Need a strong individual, perhaps one student, single.· Please contact · John· :rvicGuire c·o Civil Engineering Dept. Call ext. 6262 A.S.A.P. Do you have a surmner sublet available? Student ·working at GE over the summer is looking for a stm:uner sublet. Call Kurt at (313) 285-3255. . . Top 10 Probelms ·With the Lottery System by TMW and. DJK 10. No clue wich geek R.A. is going to be on your floor 9. Still says 1986 on the lottecy ticket (did anyone notice)? . 8. Floor with condom dispensers set aside for freshmen 7. Let us pick first, then set .aside for freshmen 6. You can let in more than one person at a time to .get their lottery number! 5. Every roommate is an unbearable slob 4. No accomodations for pets 3. Can't wait in line ... have to watch; \Max I-Ieadroom\ 2. Everywhere you live is too damn far _from everything else 1. 'You can't win ifyou don't play.\ tY1!1Yet; me Ytu · CA5£Y M&1HO!?. Berke Breathed .. ttJy &OJH/ . I THINK 'Tlf/5 C()(JLfJ APV£f<(}EC..Y · :·1/ffttT 1Hf Cf!tltPAI&N/ \ IiL. TJ<Y /0 P(JT A f05/T!V~ 5PIN ON IT fOr< 1H£ N£TVI/0f(K'5. \, Y£l/H 1 {j()(}P,/ I ' m~ P~vtL- · Milt?£ HIM PO fT. w~ HfJVt. . POCIJI'IIf!NTiJ, I

I . . CONCORDIENSJ'S 1 May 19, 1988 Page 21 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Tilt-Have you seen any dead men.running aroilnd lately, or have you been too blJ.SY buying 6 packs 5lor 2 dollars.· Hey how about a pyramid practice you illegal aliens II again thanks to you \My Brown Eyed Girl.\ Q;C.- ) So, what are the top 10 · computer science and electrical engineering courses at Union College? S.J. & K.D. Lori L . ....Sptil}g is finally here! What flavor is the yogurt; today? PICNIO! ! ! Paula_,;,feeling a little vin'\ dictive la~el~ aren't we? .()h yeah! ..... Tilt& Tree What'sthedealwith the SPAM? There are no Vikings at Union. Are short billed loons really allergic topuppies? Deero. Done any bologna with mayo lately? Know you meet youm know-who in the c. library. Wouldn't jello be easier? With cool-whip of course! Dear Andrea, I missed you last weekend. I can't wait until swruner. Your driving up to me this time. I love you. Love, Pooky Stupe- r love him (in the nature). 'Tiny Impatient Clipper Looking for a permanent roommate (male or female, nonsmoking) to live in Albimy with 2 senior girls .starting this To the Person who 'Sent me money for a \HMFH\ t~shirt­ You forgot tG include your name or box nwnber. Leather's Revenge Congratulations Brother Sales! Thanks for being a buddy. Bets Small refrigerator for sale. Good condition-$55. Call Joanne 382~7860. ZBT: , summer. Call 6972 or 6960. Jube- B.F. Get psyched for \Twistin' by the Pool'' Tri Delta \ I thinll: it's aU for the best. M for Satall. I want no M. Woah! P.olysyllllbie. ' Love; aelchy Happy b'day Lisa 0. Keep the popcorn popping. We love :you most. Kate, Ellen & Chris: .I see. a red dpor and I want it . painted black! ... AND SO THE next day was Friday and tb.ey tied them~ • selves tegether with a leasb and · . wandered·aim.lesslythrough the · gardens. and tben I wok~ up! ! I . don't know what I mean. · The DG Olympics are tomorrow ·from 1:30 - 4:00 on the rugby field. Come watch the .fun! ! M.N.~ ZBT: \When's hell week over?\ ''What's tonight's activity?\ ''How are your pledges?\ ''Send your pledges our love\ Sorry- MM, AS, SF Ric, I hope it \s not as bad as you said. R~rnember what you promised! - Lov~, M.S. : Congrats on PBK Rva, and Kate & Ellen maybe you can make it too one day just like me. Love, Marl P~aches.,.._Naughty girls need love, too-our day wiU come. Kenny I don't know, but I kind of think that it looked. 'better on Cathy. Mayl:>e a one;.piece would look better on you! Lina Tbanx for taking care of me- not everyone can fend for themselves at the movies. ' · Love,Dirt Dot~They've found us out! Remember the waitress at Lombardo's? The message is Wlder her name. To the new brothers of ZBT: Congratulations!! You'll add a lot to the house! 3rd Floor Fox: Pledges Don'tw()rrywe'll ta.ke care of Love ya'- your best but definitely not your last daughter Myron Marge--Being clean is fun (even if ~he noise can't be helped). DE:LTALOVE -TheSquatch Family Yom loving hall you! g....,.Cheer up! ! !!1 Love always--L / New Brothers, Welcome to the \Dark Side\! Jeffrey, Jeffrey, Jeffrey- Where were you 2.ioo the ni#ffit of the 14th? The 31st of Feb.? MAR....,. Jum drag your naked a- and · yom key thru the tunnel. · Frieze,. You were right ... I'm having an affair at h()lne with one of·· PingPing's .friends-Una 132 Park Place- Thanks for a great fonnal! Hope everything is back to nonnal! -Tripods Lord Leon & Mr. Spooge To Scary, Nature, Banger & MoWltain Tilt,......l dCJn't know about all this library :stmf. I think your old reputatl(lll might be shaking! -Sue Gimpster-We hope you get on your feet again. We're hungry ; and very smelly! xoxo Mookie &Poopster StanleY, there's still room for · youin the bottom left corner of· my closet if you need me. (next · to my nanny and the two pit~ . bUlls) Gladys Matthew, , Congratulations BJlOTHER sugar lip~! -sweetness Saturday is the time to do something harsh, don't space it because if you don't take the .initiative to be creative, someone will. Sharon, Lauren.--How was the seance? Did y()u kill any men? ___:TT Lauren and Suzanne---.. Tilt and I are going to pick up some guys this weekend .and do some \laundry~'! ·(Wink) Emily 8-When .are we going to play tennis? From the owner of . \Little Stench'' Get psyched for the Metro this . Friday everybody! ! Going home. too often leaves me with a huge appetite ... good thing I had a feast! The little oriental one· Missa and Bethy-Who do we think we are-a bWlch of \Big Shots\ or something? 72 hours has to be a record-Let's do it again! ! ! Beck Never let it be said that you don't party every nigbt in• eluding your birthday. Shall we dance around the \cup\? Happy belated 21st - The Clique -Tree&Tilt Thank you for being so special. My life is happy and complete Go.dzilla, Blob's the thing- Here's to next year. . . .. .Here __ · is .~a list of th·e Recipients at t.h·e. May 7th Prize Day ~ ~ ··-· - ... -· w ~- - ' • • ... • - ::.o A.cademy of Amer:fcan Poets Prize ....... .' .. A .. Chidsey Dickson • Joy E. Runyon :William F. Allen: Essay Prize ............. A. Chidsey Di.c.kson Gevin D. Soling · Ronald Amiraian Memorial Prize ... ·. . . . . . . Christopher E. Hartmann 1\ndrew W. Archibald Pr.ize ................ Tamara L. Barsamian .David Brind Memorial Prize ............... Meg J. Gorman · Shawn H. Morton Joseph D. D.oty Prize .•..........•...... ; .Richard E. Durbin Hans Hainebach Me~orial Prize in Judaica ... ; ....................... Brad E. Oren Oswald Heck-Irwi~l Steingut Prize .•.•..... Devin N. Wenig Samuel M. He.ssoh <Prize ................... Lisa B. Wachter Hispanic Society of ~chenectady P_rize .... William F. Ennis t Albert c. Ingham ~f:rize, .............. : . .. Alok Bhatt · John Iw13;ni.k I:>i:iz~~~.. . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . • . . . Timothy G. Valachovic WU1iam B. Jaffe Art Award ............•.. A,ndre M. Haddad Th:om~ J. Judson Memorial Award .•.....• , .Michael. Silberstein Ear old. A. LaJ:rabee Prizes ... · ..........•.. Andrew · P .. Livernois · Karen L. Taylor Robert G. O'N'eale Prize., ..•..•.......•.. David M. Gruber . Elias Peissner Prize ..................... Victo·r J. Davis Charles Alexander Richu!ond Prize ......... Edward Lin Rotary Club. of Schenectady Foundation · Prize • . . . , _ . . . . . . . .•................. Mary Ann Dunham Daniel Shocket Prize ...............• , .... John M. Goguen. ~essel Ten Broeck Van Orden Prize ..•..... Tamra L. Tibbetts Mildred Witd.er Prize ...................•. Amy H. Berke llugene I. Yudis Prize ..•...•.............. John M. Goguen Allle-rican Society of' Civil Engineering Award ................................ Mary K. Morse Alllerican Chemical Society Award in Analy:t!i.cal C::hemis try ............ , ..... Robin . L. Miller Samuels. Feuer Prize ...........•........ Jonat;han M. Gerst,man Robert M. Fuller Prize ................... John G. Cummings Elie F. Fraij i :Bruce M. Garher Prize .................... Charles A. Blatnik Shankar Gokbale P1=ize •................•.. Mary Aim 'T. Schiazza (lharles B. Hurd Prize .................... Susan Rocker 1n!!;Var Ingvarsson Prize ...............•.. J.effrey H. H~rschman Varner King Prize .................•..... Jeffrey H. Huschman Ei:hel Kirchenbaum Memorial Prize .•.•..... Sharon A. Panas ~illiam E. La!lni\t Prize ..........•......• Robert K. Luntz John Lewis March Prize .......... : ..•..... Vincent J. Ruzzo Edith Emilee MacCoy Prize ..•......••..... Keitlh P. Ireton · Robert P. Goldstein The Moles Pt:ize .......................•.. Joseph M. Lanaro It. E. Morgan Memorial Award .............. Donald P. Orofino Psi Chi S~rvice Award ..............•....• Tina E. Sciocchetti Martin Terry Resch Prize .....••.......... David J. Moss Stephen D. Szydlik Robert J;... Royal Award .......... · ......... Tri Lee Mortimer F. .Sayre Prize •.......•.. • ..... , Sandra B'. Noell llr.Reuben Sorkin Award .••.•..... ······• Tri Lee Ralph w. Stearns Prize .... • .... · • · · · • • · • Mary A· Murphy . · Bt11ee E. Hopkins James Henry Turnbull Prize •..•..•.••.•.•. Michael T. klingiesmith · James L. Po·irhr Lee and William Wrubel Memorial Prize ..•. Alberto laia Delphic Honor S.ociety Awards Juniors: Seniors: james D. Cirincione Colleen C. Adinolfi Wendy L. Endress Randi F. Goldstein Christine E. Hong Robert P. Goldstei~ Stephanie L. Jaryna Michael S. Hiller Donna L. Lazendorf Marjorie G. Hoffer John A. McQueen Ma.rk A. Hutchins Kelley G. Park LeAta R. Jackson Stephen J. Rock Jean A. Matus Wendy Bernstein Memorial Award ......... Matteo 'Coveri-Abbondio Alan Lake Chidsey Citizenship Award ...... Martin N. Cepkauskas Frederick B. Hawley, Jr. Memorial Award .. Martin N. Cepkauskas. Meritorious Service Awards ............... Anthony B. Holston LeAta R. Jackson Geri L. Mackey Jean A. Matus Tina E. Sciocchetti Mark G. Webster Outstanding Resident Advisor Awards ...... Charles J. Campione Kenneth J. Horan · Donna L. Lanzendorf Eileen A. Sweeney Panhellenic Awards Abademic Achievement: ................. Delta Delta Delta Community Service .......... · ........... Delta Delta Delta Extracurricular Activities ............ Delta Ganun~ Outstanding Greek Woman ............... Carolyn A. Zutell Calvin G. Schmidt Award. .................. Donna L. Lanzendorf Silver Plate Award ....................... Craig S. Ratner David Wagenseil Memorial Award .........•. John E. Thorne Fred W. B~uhn Prize ...................... Kenneth J. Horan Eastern College Athletic Conference • Medal of ·Merit ......•.........•....... Julie A. Gallo Freshman Athletic Prize .................• Dyian A. Kelley William B. Jaffe Medal ................... Richard H. Romer William A. Pike Memorial Trophy.' > ........ Scott D. \Manley Ronald F. Plumb Memorial Prize ........... Darrell~. Shepherd Robert R. Ridings Award .................. Carolyn A. Zutell P·resident' s Commission Prizes Senior Thesis Prize ....•............•. Amy H. Berke Athletic Promise Award ................ TerriL. Thomas Community Se.rvice Award ............... Mary Ann Dunham Senior Athletic Award ................ ,jennifer R. Lee Senior Scholarly Activity Award ... , ... Frances M. Czajka Julian B. Hoffman, M.P. Memorial Award ... Edward Lin Daniel F. Pull!llatl Prizes Engineering .........•.... -· ........... !<lark A. Hutchins HI,Uilanities ..............•............. Brian F. Hughes frances Travis Memorial Award ............ James E. Stoddard Horatio· G. Warner Prize, ..............•.. Alok Rhatt George H. Catl:i.n Prize ................... Stephen D. Szydlik Joseph Daggett Prize •...................• Ma-rk G. Webster Frank Bailey Prize ....................... LeAta R.. Jackson , ,•

Page 22 CONCORDIBNSlS, May 19, 1988 ~ . - ·UNION VARSITY LETTERWINNERS 1987 - __ 6_8 Robert Ander·son Cecil tlr i ght Michael Calderoni Nickolas Capuano Mark Caruso 'P:hi lipp~ Chang . Wi Hi am Conk 1 in Thomas Connolly Patrick Cook Christopher Duffy Kevin Fiala William Floor Michael Ford George Fot i adi s . Mi ch ae 1 Garguilo Gregory Goetz Football William Groesbeck Gregory Hallas Steven Hayes Blake Henderson John Johnson Daniel Klinger Jason Krause James LaFrance Stephen Marqi!Jart Ryan.Mason George McAvoy Kevin Melaughltn Sean Mclaughlin Thomas McM-ahon Chris top her 01 son. Bryan Palumbo FALL M-arc Paquin Gregory Peden James Poirier Kevin Ramu.ndo Allan RappeJyea Daniel Rattay Todd Richardson Richard Romer Richard Samuelson Darrell Shepherd 'Matthew Smith . Mark Stachowiak Ti.mothy Valachovic .Michael VanHorn Field · Hockey Frances Czajka Carolyn Hardy Lynn Hyd:e Dan ie l'le Lavigne Courtney Lynch Jennife,r Lyon Ann ·Mulvany Alison 'Pallotta Kri sty Rodenhiser Ellen Tapley Kris Tierney Monica Zifcak CarolynZutell. Women's .. Soccer··;: Nicole Ange Hdes .. ·sa,r~ti st:i:aw ·' · Melissa Blake Erin· SheehaPo tynn.Chabot .Ktmberly\Stevens Julie Ga.llo Terri Thomas Katheri 11e Hawke Leona· Wethere l1 Deborah Hodi n Vi·ctoria Wise Kathleen lawl i•ss EHtabeth Wright Cheryl P ackmar, Volleyball Amy Benusis Debbie Berman W~me-n's· Te nni\s · :, _,, · Mary Brush Ellen Beyda Roxanne Ghezzi . A.lysia Dashef J.ane Ha,ckett Cynthia Pantazi s Anne Hoban · Scharn Robinson .. Melanie Masterson Elissa Rosenzwe•i.cg Shelly Pino .Julie Silberman· L.i sa Stillman Emily Stenhouse Men's Soccer M .. ' .ens Michele VtJolo · She~i Weinstock '' David Haas ,_ .. Jeffrey Barker David Cope Victor Davis Brian Desmarais Richard Engdahl · Norman Hale Michael Kijak Jonathan LaDuke Denning McTague Brett Mi 11 er Cross Country lVomen's Cross Country . Mark Nadeau Dani e 1 ·Pittenger' James Campo 1 i Eric Reainan David Defilippo Michael M:arti-nez Eileen Brady Kara Merrill ·David Tewksbury . Wayne Kotary David Steen Sherri Cargile Lynette Nielsen Douglas Tulley James Le.Brou Stephen Szydlik . Jennife·r Le.e Jennifer Regan. H9ckey Dennis Baldwin Brian Lucey Nichol as !3aratoff Scott Manley Terry Campbell Philip Maclaughlin Peter Cotier John Mcintosh Scott Cyr Peter Orenberg John Marc Goguen Terry Rathwell Daniel Gould Nelson Said Robert Grady Bill Sedergren Darrell Gustafson Bi 11 Snow Chris Huntington Mark Spease Ronald Kinghorn Gary Temush Guy Logan Men's Basketball WINTER Women's Basketball Theresa Bor:~i Katie Kaufman . Colleen Dundon Gina Proknsch . Julie Gallo Gwendolyn Stevens Karin Hayes Mi che 1 e Van Pat ten · Lynda Hynes Wendy Vincent Men's S .... • .WIIDIDing Mark Abbey M.aurits Boon Women's Indoor Track Lora Anderson Eileen Brady Sherri Cargile Jennifer lee Claire Ginsberg-Lytle Denise McMillan Lynette Nielson Ma.rg aret Parsons Jennifer Regan Terri Thomas Stephanie Woodard~ All One, Two or Three Year r- 'LETTER WINNERS Should Pick Up Their A wards in Thomas Beck Steve Khentigan Jason E. Broome Gordon Buchin Thomas Christopher Lee Fraij i ·Joseph Kowalski Todd Kramer Jefrrey Nolan Stephen Sav ad Lawrence Schachter Louis John ~rtalik Craig Wortman DICK SAKALA.'S OFFICE -- Steven DeBal so Wi 11 ard Peck Kurt Fox Joseph Romer Scott G~bbs Mark Trudeau Tom Kim Douglas Gregory Mark VanBuren Dylan Kelley Philip Zaccheo Women's Swimming Janice A lteri Cindy Curtis Joy Cybul Elinor Ooty Pamela Fielder Kathleen Kavaney Mary Kelly Jaimie lipsher Ellen Matloff Jennifer No 1 an Lisa Pizzutto Aime Simon Nina Smilari Wendy Sternberg Tara Thomas Susan Torpie Ji n Wo lkstei n Elizabeth Wright between 9 a.~. and 4 p.m., - . ~ . ;· .~, .. ~ - . ·~ ·Men's Indoor Track • William All en Jeffrey Barker Guy Burman James Campoli William Craig Zachary Gobel Steven Hayes James LeBrou Robert lindvberq Thoma-s lombardon i Michael Martinez Andrew McMahon Shawn Mowry ·.:oavid Shepard George Silver :·Jeffrey Simkins ;·>Mi ch ae 1 s.; rowi ch · ~;j-Stephen · Szydl i 1< :- Michael Tremante.· • Baseball Tony Amarante Robert Anderson Da'lid Anderson William Brundige Mark Callahan · Scott Dell'Orfano David Giordano Scott Goldsmith Matt Hoover Kenneth Horan Glenn Kata Daniel Klinger Joseph Mauro Timothy O'Leary Pat Secchi aro 1 i Mark Trudeau Timothy Valachovic Tracy Valachovic Wi 11 i am Weidman . Cara Taback SPRING Women's Lacrosse Anna Allen Nicole Angledies Jane Barkin Oanie1le Lavigne Courtney Lynch Stacey Ro·senfi.e l d ·Women's Track Lora .1\nderson Eileen Brady Elizabeth Dobbs Claire Ginsberg-Lytle El ilabeth Jewett Jennifer lee Denise McMi11 an kara Merrill Lynette Nielsen Margaret Parsons Jennifer Regan Terri Thomas Alison Williams Sot\tball Colleen Dundon Julie Gallo Melissa Hladik Kimberly Ke 11 er Susan Kersch Jennifer Kove Kathy Lawlis s Jean Mon9co Michelle Montoney Shelly Pino Teresa Sanchez Rebekah Thayer Kris Tie·rney\ Joyce Whitted Men's Track Wi 11 i am A 11 en Art Braga Guy Burman Wi 11 i am Craig Mi ssa Blake Kate Hamil ton Debbie Hodin lynda Hynes Megan Kennedy Kristen Ryan. · · Sarah Shaw · Ell en Tap ley Carolyn Zutell Matthew Guyette Steven Hayes James LeBrou Robert Lindyberg Thomas lombardoni Michael Martinez Andrew McMahon Daniel Randolph Terry Rathwell David' Shepard Geo:rg.e Silver Jeffrey Simkins Michael Siro'tlich . Stephen Szyd 1 ik Michael \Tremante Men's Lacrosse Golf Mike B.ruh11 Chris ~Garvin Peter Katz Richard Roberts Stu Steinberg Jason Albert Matthew Arnold Nicholas Baratoff . Gary Cornick ..--------t Peter. Cotier Men's Tennis Robert Ackerman John Conti Chad levin · Kei 1 Schmid Joseph Voyticky David OeBarardi ni s Sean Doherty Alan Fleischer Jay Freeland . Carl Friedrich Jonathan Gargi~lo Stev·en Garnett· Robe.rt:Gobro-n Joseph Goethe Blake H~nderson ' Philip Horn -Arthur Hudson ·. Christopher Johnson · Jeffrey Johnson ·. John Ke 11 er . ' leonard LaMonica Patrick Lawson Gregory Leahy Brendan Lowney Shawn Morton Christopher Ramsay h . Step.en Savarese _ John Thorne Michael Uccellint ' Charles Weber ' ·~ I

CONCORD1ENSJS, May 19, 1988 Page 23 <l!oncnr~iensis SPORTS Athle.te of the Week With A Perspective On Spo:rts By IlAVE MORRISON · Sports Editor The 1988 Union College baseball squad wiU be. rememQer.ed. for being the \hard luck''. team; if remem- bered for anytbing.. Unfor- tunately, this year~s team cotild not post a wiuning record (10-10- 1) despite the fact that the team's st~tistical .output was not much different that the 1987 season where they posted a 16-6 record. , Although not represented, by their record, there were. many outstanding lndividuaJ. efforts throughout the season. One such demon .. stration of this effort and consistent o1.1tstanding · play is· this week''S Miller ''Athlete of the Week\ Dave Anderson. Anderson is a senior, four year letter winner o.ut .of Bethesda, MD- St. Alban's. He was voted this year's Most Valu~:~.ble Player and batted .437 (28 of 71) and led this year's team with 28 r~s scored. Anderson was also second in RBI's with 18. Anderson has hit . 341 in his 75-game college career {'77 for 226) and stole 28 bases in 33 attempts. He was chosen to play .in this year Is All- Star game. We at Concordiensis eldend our congratulations to Dave Anderson for an excellent season. We wish him continued success in his life after Union. We would also like to thank the team ·for some · very exciting moments and wish them good luck ne?tt year. By ANDRJI:WMlliLER • Sports Editor If there is one man who has helpe<f the University. of San-· done it aU at all levels of his Francisco win National .sport, it •Would have to be K;C. Collegiate Athletic Association Jones. K. C. Jones.is basketball. basketball titles in 1955.:56. Men 1 S Track at States On May 3rd, the Celtics Head Jones' shadowing defensive Coach shocked the basketball play and offensive spark helped world with a surprise an- to ignite the Bill RusseU led noun cement concerning his west Coast squad. As a member retirerneni from coaching at the of the Green Team during the end. of this 1988 season. Jones \Glory Years\ Jones played on will step down as the Celtics eight championship teams. As a coach after compiling a 5-yeat coach his team finished first in record .of 308-102 in. the regtilar seven of his eight NBA seasons. season and a 5~29 mark in the So where does this leave the playoffs. Jones· has led the Celtics? Some say Jones used Celtics to the championship his retirement announcement round f<1r the past four ye~s as the· ultimate motivation includ:iag two NBA titles. The factor to push his aging Celtics former Celtics great will be through the rigors· of playoff replaced by assistant coach, play. I tend to disagree. The and close confidant, Jimmy Celtics are a team of Roger&~ Rogers is cracked from professionals. l'be likes of the Jones mold, but will have to Larry Bird and Robert Parish . deal with an aging veteran don't need a false stimulus to teamp unlike the personnel push their desire to win. The · situation Jones inherited. Celtics starting five just may be · It was small but valiant contigent of Union trackst.ers who made the trip out to ·. '· / . - Rochester last weekend for the NYSCT&FA state meet. With only seven members of the team competing, Union was one of the smallest groups represented. Nevertheless, the Dutchmen turned in a respectable performance; as several of the athletes had their best races of the season. Chip Silver picked up Union's first points of the meet as he scored a sixth place finish in the high jump, where he cleared 6 feet 4 inches. Jeff Simkins then added a .fifth place finish ih the 400 hurdles with aa impressive run in that event. Simkins had run a personal best the night before in the semi-finals .of the event, clocking a 56.8 second time to qu~lify for the finals. In the finals, Simkins took another full second off, With his 5~.8 second riui getting him his\ fifth .place. Also running his fastest time of 4th place finishing 4 x 400m relay: Jen Lee, Meg Parsons, Claire Ginsberg-Lyte, and Terri Thomas. •SUPPORT · UNION SPO.RTS the year was freshman Bob Lindyberg, who took over three seconds off .his previous best in. the 800 meters. Lindyberg was timed in 1:58;69 for the race., and missed qualifying f()r the finals in that event by ~ single place. Art Broga also fell just short of scoring, as he made the finals in the long jump, but was unable to improve on his 6.29 meter junp in the trials. All in all, however, it was a successful two days for the team as it wound up the championship meet portion of the season. The final meet for the track team is Friday night under lights, as Union hosts its annual Spring Classic. As :in the past, this meet Should tum out to be an exciting one, as athletes from around the ~'tate will be . making their final bids to qualify for: the NCAA national meet. Jones was quoted in The New the most determined squad in York Times as saying, ''I the league. They know what thought about it for quite a they have to do, and do it night while. f'm very happy about it. in and night out. As far as the It's n()t often one gets a chance future of the Celtics is con- to say, ''Well, I've done it all and cerned, it appears tense. A new I can't go any further so let's coach, three aging players who step dl)wn.'\ In the sport of may retire within the nex:t two- basketball, K.C. Jones has done three years, and a spot-role it all. 13esides his total coaching bench all adds up to a big mark ()f 463.:193, including his question mark. It will take some three :ll~asons as Head Coach of Red Aurbach magic in trading the Washington Bullets,. and the maneuvers and the draft to turn two coached NBA titles, Jones this team around in the next _shared in the abundant Celtic four-five years. Jimmy Rogers success as a playmr. Before his .. just may be the first Celtics years in green, Jones, a back- coach in .recent memory not to court defensive specialist, inherit a playoff caliber team. Records Fa·ll as LadY Tracksters Storm ECAC's By THE TRACK TE~M This past weekend, six members of the Women's Track Teatn traveled to Fitchbur~. MA to compete in the highly competitive Eastern Con- ference Athletic Cham- pionships. This meet attracts top athletes from Maine to Virginia. Although Union College is small in comparison to some of the powerhouse universities that were there, the girls did amazingly well ! Terri Thomas had a busy weekend as she ran in the lOOm, the 200rii, as w:ell as two relays. She made it a8 far as the semis in the 200m dash, with a very fast 26A, but just missed going on to finals. Liz Dobbs had some ,Stiff competition in the 100 hurdles (Which included an Olympic hopeful). She .r.an very strongly, finishing with her best time ever of 16.9. She also ran in tbe gruEling 400m hurdles, and again, ra:n one of her best times with a 71. Meg Parsons, Union's top 400m rmner, ran up against some ofthe best q1.,1arter milers in the east. She ran very well with a time of 61, to finish up a very successful season. Eileen Brady took on the 500m run, arid ran a very ctetennined race to crosstlle line with a fine time of 5 :02. Eileen is an im~piration to the team because she's in- jured, yet does so well! Jen Lee represented Union in the BOOm run. She scored the first point for Uni-<ln with her sixth place finish. >Her time .of 2:18.9, was a persOnal best, and a school record. Unio11 also entered two relays. The 4X100m relay ran a strong time of 52.2. to place 8th. The most. exciting race of the . day for Union was the 4X400m relay. The team made up of Meg Parsons, Clare Ginsberg- Lytle, Terri Thomas, and Jen Lee were the perfect com- bination. Although Union was placed in the slow heat, the girls were not be denied! They won their heat in a blazing 4:06.0 which broke the school record by over fow- seconds!. This t:ime was good enough to give the team a fifth place finish. It was satisfying to see the looks on people's faces as little Union beat big name teams! Thus. the trip was a perfect ending for a very' fine season. If you never made it to a track meet this .year, you missed out on some terrific running. This Friday night Union hosts the Spring Classic. It's sw-e to be exciting. If you can't make it, then there is always next year- Union Track needs your support! Anything. Goes (almo_st) ALL CAMPUS PICTURE ' . MAY 20TH 3:00 P.M. WEST WALL

A vicious cut is taken by Kim Ke'ller., in Union's one and · only States appearance. Josh Derechln snatches against. Hamilton. May 19, 1988 z • Delventhal Accepts Head Hockey Coach Position By DAVE MORRISON Sports Editor • Last Wednesday it was an- nounced that Bruce Delventhal had accepted the position of Head Hockey coach and director of Achilles Rink at Union. He was selected from a nation wide search and will arrive to begin bis new job on July 1. Delventhal will l!ave some big shoes to fill by replacing Charlie Morrison who resigned and then suddenly passed away in April. Delventhal comes to us from the Rochester Institute of Technology where he was head coach for four. He is a graduate of Hamilton College and has a great deal of coaching experience. H~ began as a coach al the Peddie School in New Jersey from 1973-77. For one year he was assistant hockey coach at Princeton Day School, before taking over as head coach and athletic director at Northwood Prep School in Lake Placid, from 1978-81. From this position he moved on to be assistant coach at Prin- ceton University until1984 when he accepted his position at RIT. As one can see, Delventhal has a wealth of eXJJerience and a lot of knowledge. Athletic director Dick Sakala stated, \The Coach Bruce Delventhal search committee was very impresserl with Bruce's academic baekground and with his concern for the academic welfare of bis players.'' Delventhal had a very sue- Ken Horan takes the stre1ch. 6 ' c ··$· '' - cessful career atRIT, bringing his Tigers to the ECAC tourney in all ofbis.four years and to the NCAA's twice. By beating the Dutchmen in the semi-finals to reach the finals, he won the national championship in 1985. His record at RIT was an im- pressive 87-39-2 (31-6~ in 1986). While also being a member of the American Hockey Coaches Association, Delventhal's other credentials include: professional instructor at the RIT Hockey Clinic, Penn State Elite Camp, the Bowdoin College Clinic, Morristown Park Commission, Wissahickon Hockey Clinic in Philadelphia, Can-Am Hockey School and the Pocumtuck Hockey School in Massachusetts. If Bruce Delventhal is all that his experience and credentials make bim out to be, Union College Hockey will have a successful and winning future. Combined with the youth and talent that was seen on the ice this past season in the ECAC Tourney, Dutchman Hockey could be headed for a national ·championship under Bruce Delventhal's supervision. :_ , Best Wishes to Coach Reynolds and his wife on the birth of their daughter Serra Elizabeth .. The Baseball Team A Sweet But Final Season By CARA TABACK Myrtle memories Lingered over an up and down baseball season of too many, and; not enough runs. Salt and Pepper became more than just table condiments. The two day seminar on fair balls and foul territory continued to boggle curious minds. Mother Flet- cher's gave new meaning . to fashion, and cold became more than just mind ovet matter; it was a state of being as the baseball team ended their season at 10-10-1. A 19-19 intersquad tie during their spring trip to South Carolina, promised an in- teresting year game-wise, and a fUn year personality-wise .. Freshman Ed Whelan, with the highest batting average down south, broke out full-force in the Colgate Verbal War. First-base coach and active player Dave Giordano fungoed his way into the hearts of the fans as his relief .pitching~ · verbal encouragement and even intimidating pitches at bat against Hartwick bring a smile to everyone's face. His faithful crowd the Utica Club (Light) braved heavy precipitation, strong winds and low temperatures to vigorously cheer on Union, and psyche out ·opponents and umpiies. They were joined by the Valachovic crew, Anthony's Mom and Dad,. Kodiak, Tippy, Buddy, and Professor Bristol, who has regularly attended home games for years, lending support which was much appreciated. Paula, who will never live down living in Vermont, dazzled everyone, player and fan alike, with ber well thought out remarks to questionable wn- pires, with ber undying devotion to the team and her fashion- defying gold shades. .speaking of fashion, Rich Wolfe fowtd a cure for the sun, the one day that it shone brightly, with his sun visor catcher's mask. Rally caps turned into smelly caps when · woolen hats soaked up rain arid snow, but no cap outdid 'l'im O'Leary's green aviator cap. For the first year WF AN listener and firstbaseman Dan Klinger could listen to home games on WRUC- the only group of people to pronounce V alachovic .correctly. Jn 47 at bats, Tracy walked only two times and brother Tim racked up quite a few wins with his final ERA of 3.97. :Misspellings in programs haunted Joe Mauro and Nell Walkoff. But Neil predicted the hits and his entnusiasm for the game enlivened us all. Matt Hoover finished the year at .429 and Bill Brundige at an impressive .409, with an on-base percentage of 49. Mark Callahan of Dover Plains, population 10,000, smashed a homerun in his .first Union at bat to add to the google of runs again.st Hartwick and pitched his waY into the consciences of all opposing batters, especially when Union \needed it\ most. In one of the best seasons of his pareer, senior . Dave Anderson hit .437 with 7 doubles, 1 triple and 3 homeruns. He had a to tid of 72 bases on the year, braved the track af Bleecker Stadium and repelled down Mt. Right Field at RPI, following up last year's.homerWl and double play in tbe Cooperstown Tournament wonderfully. Bob Anderson .(accent o1dhe \o\) t{)ok part in most of Union's 19 double plays on the year and. turned his own unassisted one during the Hartwick game at home. Glenn Kata, starring in the Colgate pre-game with Scott Dell'Orfano and- Tim O'Leary, c almost made the book of fines when he missed the cut-off man and threw home, but his strong arm gunned the man out. As pitcher and shortstop Ken Horan ended the year at an even .400 with 6 doubles, 1 triple and 1 dmger and an ERA of 2.90. He joined a fine staff of pitchers, Mark Trudeau, Boll Weidman, Mike Switzer, and Chris Brush, who also shared the respon- sibility of monitoring coach Field's pitching chart. Scott Goldsmith chipped in with dutch hits and Pat Sec- chiaroli, strong offensively despite facing harsh umpires, also played .extremely well at short and bebind tbe plate. On. one of our last road trips we left mountainous North Adams for a Fabian and Marvelettes concert. Mike Dukakis was. discovering that he bad won the New York State primary and Venus and the moon glowed ii1 the sky as we left the blustery St. Rose game. And now it is. time . for Dave, Glenn, Scott, Ken, Tim, Tim, Paula and I to leave four years of Union baseball. Sadly but most' of all fondly.

• . .. ~ . 1877 CXVJI, No~ 26 HousiQg Lottery Yields ·Mixed Results for Students ·Fraternity and College Conflict on L(lcal Real Esta-te Purchases - By ELlSEFOODY News Editor The 1988. Union College Iloillling Lottery is over ... almost. All but eleven· students who reguested. on- ·. . hoUsing for next year haire.tteeJl gtJ.arl~nteect a room. freslunan class .. Regardless of the size of the current freshman class, more uperelassmen were housed· by the college thfs . year than last year. In the 1987 lottery .232 sopbo~ores received housing; thfs year, 306 .sophomores were · housing. There '·.-.' lnvesti~ative Reporting & Analysis By R. \tEED WHIDDEN News Editor Last week on the Com- mentaries. page of Con· cordiensis, a letter regarding the selling and purchasing of ,property near the College was printed. · The Alpha Epsilon .Pi fraternity bad been tcy'ing to secure a house on upper Union Avenue. The opportunity arose for them, and \much to (their) surprise. and dismay'' the real estate was instead sold to the College. Delta Upsiloll, in need of housing after. being kicked off campus in the fall of 1986, looked into buying a house off campus, as well, according to Tom Connolly, president of Delta Upsilon. the greek system. The College's offer to the American Legion house inhibited Delta Upsilon from fully purchasing and movinginto the house. · The purchasing of the house of Union Avenue certainly stopped Alpha Epsilon Pi from attaining off. campus housing. However, there is more to this than meets the eye. To begin With, each time the College made offers to the sellers, it was the ad- ministration that was ap- proached first. It was not the case that the College went to the sellers, hearing that fraternities were interested In the property, and offered them tremendous deals . in order to secure the. real estate. Students appear · by present housing lottery system. The American Legion house they .found was for sale and fit their needs. The trustees of the fraternity put a dvwn payment on the house. Unaware of Delta Upsilon's offer to the Legion, the College also made an offer to the Legion. The Legion then tried to breach their contract with Delta Upsilon, and sell to the college. However, the College, realizing this, with- drew their offer and Delta Upsilon is now waiting to hear if they will in fact own the house. In the case of ·Alpna Epsilon Pi, the situation was more in- volved. The seller, coin- cidentally; was a member of the College's faculty. William W. Fairchild, Professor of Mathematics, was approached 'by the fraternity more than ten month~ ago. The property, located at 36 Union Avenue, was not at the time on the market, althDugh it had been two years ago. : : .. ' ' : . ' 1 ~ . ' : - : \ : . Tile · lottery' llegari 'Tuesday evening, May 17. 'Students Wbo are currently freshmen received first choice of next year's available housing. As a result, sixty-six percent of the housing had already been ac- counted for when the jUnior class lottery took place. Mr. David Wood, Dean of Residence Life, proVided the following statistics from this ·year's lottery. There were 1083 independent beds available for students who desired to live on campus next year. Forty•one of these were set aside for resident advisors. Twenty beds were reserved for exchange and meclica} students. Eighteen beds accounted for Sniith House and fourteen beds accounted for the Cultural Unity Center. .Fourteen beds wer-e made available to members of In- . ternational House and 513 beds were reserved for the incoming were 132 juniors in the 1987 lottery who received housing compared to 91 in this year's. Finally, '95 seniors received housing in 1987 compared to 59 seniors this year. Overall, 463 upperclassmen received . housing compared to 459 last year. · There :were many students • who chose to live in suites next . year. Unfortunately, there were · not enough suites available to accomodate everyone. For women's suites, the last See LOTTERY, p. 3 - This all seems. to be great evidence toward the rumor that this college (like many others) wishes to gradually .phase out After 22 Years of Service to the College, Dean Daniels Moves On to RIT \ ByTAMRA TmBETTS smaller units of the university, so it appears that again Dean After serving Union College Daniels will be on the ground for 22 years, Dean William . level working to build a sue- Daniels is moving on. He has cessful program. His goal is to accepted the position of Dean of ''make the College of Liberal the College of Liberal Arts at . Arts as dynamic and visible as Rochester Institute of the other colleges, with the 'rechnology and will be leaving. same fine reputation.\ He Unionthefirst.ofJuly. regards his new position as an· Dean D~els began his career . \interesting chanenge\ and is at Union in 1966 as a professor looking forward to it, although in the Political Science department. He came as the it marks a basic .change from department was in its beginning teaching to full-time ad· ministration. stages and he has seen it grow . over the years to become one of ' Dean Daniels has offered Union's strongest programs. ·much to the students and Five years ago, he started his faculty here at Union. In the work as an administrator as the Political Scien~e Department, associate dean on un- he was the first program ad· dergraduate studies. In 1987, his : ministrator for the internship responsibilities ex:panded and ~ program in Washfngton, DC. he bacame the associate dean · That program is now in its 11th for undergradu~te programs ' year. As a contributor to the and minority affairs. 1 Academic Affairs Council, his The vice president of Alpha Epsilon Pi, Evan Pickus, as well as the president, David Frieze, and Secreatry of the house, Jeffrey Rockmore worked extensively on fulfilling the necessary steps towards purchasing the house on lower Union. Before they made an offer to . Fairchild, he stated that he would \not take (his) house off the market while (Alpha Ep- silon Pi) seeks a Special Use Permit.\ This permit is one that is necessary in allowing a . single. family residence to become a multiple housing dwelling. The approval of the city, as well as the neighbors around the house in question, had to be granted. The purchase agreement offered by Alpha Epsilon Pi contained this contingency. Fairchild, being See TRENDS, p. 3 May 26, 1988 Peter :Grace to Speak at 194th Commencement ·By DANIEL.J. KENIRY ' News Editor Peter Grace, the president, chairman, and chief executive of{icer of W. R. Gr.ace & Co., will be the graduation speaker at Union on Sunday, June 12. He will be awarded an honorary chancellor. 546 bachelor's degrees , 129 master's degrees, and one doctoral degree wiR.be awarded in the College's 194th com- mencement. The program will be held at Schaffer IJbrary J. Peter Grace, Union's commencement speaker. Plaza (Achilles Rink in case of rain) and will begin at 10 a.m. Grace graduated from Yale University and joined W.R. Grace & Co. in 19~. He was named chief executive officer and president in 1945. President Reagan appointed Grace chairman of the President's Private Sectory Survey on Cost Control in the Federal Government in 1982. He publisbed a b()ok entitled BIU'D.ing Money: The Waste of Your·Tax Dollars ln 1985, which docwnented some of the fin- dingsof the commission. Union College will award See GRACE, p. 3 His move to RIT will mean broad vision enhances this increased responsibility, as the · committee's work. Dean executive officer of one of nine · Daniels has a special talent for colleges which report directly mediating between acadelTIJcs, to the Provost Vic&President · the students, and · the ad· of Academic Mfairs and the ministration which have made President. The College of · him a vital asset to our college Liberal Al't$ is one of the community. Photo of the Week: Spring Semester .•• skidding .to a close. 'I .l ' ,, 'I ' ,, ': ·' ,, .!, '•I

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 NEWS ANALYSIS A look back at the goings oH at Union during the height of the Vietnam protests - professors and students look back By ALEX GARDNER The decade of the sixties and the first half of the seventies · probably witnessed one of the most rapid changes in student interests, values and life styles of any comparable period in the history of Union. Typical problems for college students in the 80's, like grades, sex, and where the best parties are, somehow lost their significance as students faced the possibility of being drafted to fight $n Vietnam. Union students, like students all over America and all over the world, realized for their first time that they could no longer passively follow decisions of their elders. To set t.\te stage a little bit, Union was, of course, an all- male school with about 1,500 students. The pre-war at- mosphere was parietal as the Soviet Military Power in The 1990's students never saw the need to wrest control from the ad- ministration, ma'king few demands and getting almost nothing in return. A lellder in the student protest movements at Union, Mark Coven, layedout the setting for Un'ion in the late 60's, ''Besides during parietal hours we C()uldnot have women in our rooms. · There was an ROTC on campus. And the administration and faculty was very much in control of the institution. The students had very little involvement in any sort of the college's policy- making.'' But stud~nts of the early 70's did not \wait for .the college · bureacracy to incrementally catch up with the times. They adamantly fought their own batties, using methods previously used. by the blacks in the Civil Rights movements. Violent Prptests AtOtber NY Universities Carry Over to Ullion Two nearby colleges were at the .forefront of the protest. At Columbia, student militants , turned Sit-ins into forcible. seizure as they took over a building and held a facUlty member hostage ,in. order to force a redistribution of Unlversity power. At Cornell, a too, showed. thelr passions through building take-overs, teach·ins, and ant~war protest. marches.. The main action at Union took place during one :week in May of 19.70 when the normal routine of :the. campus :was decidedly changed. Students BumNixGn InEfflgy- . And:March toG. E •. · band. of 100 black men and It began on the ;eve of May women students carrymg an Day, when the _Union students, arsenal of 17 rifles, shotgWls after hearing Nixon announce and homemade spears turned that troops were being sent into the college buildiug into an Cambodia, _;~s:;embled at a rally arm.ed camp, as students at the nag pole aJid. burned a claimed they were willing to die life-siZed figure of Nixon. ant take others with th•- The next day, five or six Moreover, it radiated beyond hundred student:; b~gan a Cornell and Columbia to every march to downto:wn Sehenec- other U.S. campus· and indeed - Utdy. · Across Nott Terrace, beyond the universities to U.S. chanting such slogans as \We society as a whole. don't want Nixon's war,\ they For the country as a· whole, it marcbed up to the main gate ~f was estimated that at least a the General Electrie Plant, with thousand campuses w:ere the disputed notion. tbat G.E. seriously affected, some to the was·the second largest Defense extent that the college was Departme11t contractor. Sitting closed for the spring and down and blocking access to the commencement not held. plant, the student$ listened to What happened. at Union was speeches for abom; an hour less explosive and dramatic before moving Uptown tQ :the than events at institutions like Site of the Selective Service Cornell ~nd Columbia, but they, Office. the other. Tom Clancy (author Clancy , in an article in the of Red Storm Rising and The January issue of Poli~y Review, Hunt For Red October) has theorized that these distortions been arguing this point now for must be due to ''intellectual some time. The .political right in laziness and ideological pre- the U.'S. believes that the conceptionsthatdonotallow for Russian military ·13 top-notch, is the objective examination of astronomically funded, and has evidence.'' It appears that with equipment that can dwarf any the 1968 issue of Soviet Military Western power. And, even · Power, the Pentagon has worse, thiS weaponry is aimed ceased to be \ right us- God· and freedom- ll\ZY\ or ''ideologically ByDANIELJ. KENIRY been pnblished each year loving people that we are. Now preconceived.'' _ · News Editor during . the Reagan on theleft, we hear that the U.S. New items to talte note of in The new issue of SOViet Administration. military is .equipped with this year's report: . Military Power is out. The The boCJk concludes, this year, weapcns sMStems that cost the . -A complex system of Wl· Pentagon in its yearly public with an assessment that's right taxpayers millions of dollars derground facilities and tlin- documentation of Soviet might, on target and seems to be and never work. The K()rean nels, capable of housing the has apparently held off on the promising. \We believethat the stalemate, Vietnam- and tbe nation's leadership in the event. rhetoric and taken a more level- strategic balance today is debacles of Beirut, Grenada, of a nuclear war. The bunkers. headed view of Russia's essentially stable.\ Neither and the tJSS Stark are proof of are equipped with large stocks defenses this year. The book has superpower is really ahead ·of U.S. Army incompetence. Mr. of food and with air filters. What's -------------------------------------- the deal with this? IS this a new Lights, Camera ... Summit system, built recently by the Gorbachev regime, or i,s it just being discovered by the WeSt, or has the U.S. lmown for eons and is just decidiiig to disClose it?· Remember that Soviety Military Power is available to the aver~ge sbnloe so it's almost a statement to the SOviets- \look what we know.'' ByADAMGAHTAN ' Never before in the eight-year miniseries that has beell in the Reagan Administration has it been more appropriate that the President's roots are in Hollywood. When 'Swnmit IV: Mr. Reagan Goes to Moscow' opens on Sunday, he will be taking the show on the road for the final, and perhaps most important, performance to date. At least as far as he's concerned. For this summit isn't going to be about monumental treaties. No missiles will be eliminated, no human-rights policies amended. Involvement in third- world countries will be a· non~ issue as well, Gorbachev having made sure that the first troops crossed the Afghan border before the 28th. And this summit isn't going to be about Mikhail Gorbachev. His moment in the SWl was in December, when the Soviet's youngest and most progressive leader in decades lived up to the media hype surrounding him as he outshone the Great Com- municator in front of his own audience. He has also strengthened his position as General ~cretary in a recent Politburo infighting victory. No, this summit is about Ronald Regan, the actor /President. Moscow will provide him With one last op- portunity to walk the boards before final curtain in November. And he needn't worry that it's an off-Broadway production. He Will be playing to a packed house. The world will be watching if not with an edge-of·yl)ur-seat anxiousness, at least a bemused anticipation of the Gipper' s final pep -talk. image, as we all know, iS very important to the actor-turned President. At times itseems an obsession for him. And, despite the worldly achievements of the smnmit in December, Reagan was, on a personal level, badly upsta·ged by his counterpart. -· What makes this particularly embatassing-is that intelligence reports indicate no formal training; thespian-wise, for the Soviet leader. Is this Reagan's last chance .. Is this tne final scene .. Probably. With the writers still on strike, the rest of the ad- ministration will be, mercif1llly, epilogue and reminiscence. There have been enough plot twists and intrigues to last the world several presidencies to come. But in this last sllining moment, the instincts of the primadonna will return, and Reagan will take center stage. Once there, he will employ all the Hollywood skills he has used thus far -skills that at one time landed him .a job opposite the hottest chimp in show-biz- and try to deliver a performance that will make .people think no more of Gor- bachev's than they would of an extra's in a crowd scene. The practiced. professional will not be thrown by the ab- scence of any other stars but red ones. And it will not distur:b him that his performance will be, at least to the masses of the Soviet Union, essentlaUy a foreign film. And that he is a devout anti-commlltlist will not hinder bi.s delivery. It ju:St seems terr;ibly ironic that when the curtain falls for the last time on President Reagan, it will be an ironic one. Rcll tbe·credits. -A radar plane comparable to the U.S.'s AWACS, called MAINSTAY. -A radio-frequencY weapon intended to knock out electronic parts of nuclear warheads or even satellites. It is intended.. to be groUild-based, and will be · tested in the 19()1)'s. -The ~24 medi11m size ICBM has been deployed. It is rail .. mobile. This year's book also makes a key point in saymg that in the future, the Soviets Will con- , centrate their efforts on qualifY ·. rather than quantity. They are · developing a new emphasis on the technological ilnportance of their weagC>ns. 'lbe book notes, ''The Soviets appearto be gearing up for a more sophisticated level of com- petitionWith the West.''· The U.S. Navy is way ahead of the Soviet Navy, in terms of technology. Mr. Clancy at- · tributes this to the personnel superiority on U.S. ships. If something breaks on aUS ship a 21 year old kid with a .few years . of experience fixes it, with Th_ey then marched to the corner of State and Erie Boulevard wherethey sat down, bloc~ing traffic for abQut an hour. A little later, most of the men returned to the campus, but a grotJp of about' o~e hun• dred went back to G.E. and managedto get inside the plant, but there was no violence nor any arrests. _ Political Science professor Joe Board felt the students actions at the time were \an -inappropriate respc>nse.\ He called the student protesters a bunch with \.unitifected ~eal. The college did what it could to direct the students l:mt the movement_ qUickly e~aped the college's efforts to structure it and to guide it.'f _ The faculty and the students were frequently seen disctlSsing the war and the issue of mmorities on carnpllS in both · small groups and large rallies on Library Field and in Memorial Chapel. Many faculty, like Prof. Board, disagreed with many of the students' actions, Some professors felt the campus was an educational institution which Should · not be .inv.olved in political efforts but should stick See VI'ETNAM,. p. 4 maybe the advice of 8ll officer. on a Soviet ship., an officer has to fix a 'broken piece of equip- ment. Clancy condu(les \as a result, the best way tb.e Sovi.Erts have to make sure tbitigs· don't break is not to· use them.'' The Soviets build more classes of ships and they.- build a lot of subin~rines. But the U.S. still has the technological lead. Some analysts cannot stress enougn the importance of helicopters. The . Defense, Department seems to downplay, it. :Warsaw Pact liter~ture has described. futur-e warfare as b~ing a ''three-dimensional battle,\ in which there Will be large-scale airborne-operations. Manfred Niesters; 'in an article in.~. Intetuatioual Defense Rev.eiw, notes \The Sovlet Army gives high priority to the further development of the helicopter as wen as the for- mulation of new command and o~J:ational principle$ for ~his weapon system.\ Russta's longstanding (since the 1970's) top . helicopter is the Mi-24- HIND, heavily armed .witb combat experience . in Afghanistan and deployed in Nicaragua. The Hind is suited' perfectly for anti-taD:k missions and. air suppOrt but it has very poor mobility. It has been vutnera:ble in Afghanistan to the U.S.-roade, hand-.held, Stinger missiles. The Soviets -newest helicopter is the Mi·2s:.HA VOC, designeg similar to the US Army APACHE. Is there hope in the Soviet military? Obviously they have a lot of guns. SOme of the people. in the inilitary have no f8llillies, and som~ have serious grudges against the &oviet state. 'Ihese are the kind of officers that decided to defect in Clancy~s book The Hunt ~F~r R~d Oct4)ber. Career military personnel are most likely not great Party-lovers. There's a glimmer of hope- they have guns,. possibly a.. motive- but there'$ tbe KGB, keeping a very close eye on· the military all the time. A great army with top of the line weapons and personnel is, perhaps, the worst night- mare of the Commtmist .Party in the SOviet Union. · lnterested in working on the Dukakis Campaign next fall? Get a Clue. The N atiorial Office wants to ·organize groups 'NOW for next fall'. · Contact Dave at. Box 660 or 370-3315 Get an opinion. .Read CONCORDIENSIS New Analysis .. ,. w c1 n: a1 oJ ti v a' w d F u h Sl n o: o: ( f f I ( .; f J

CONCORDJENSlS, May: 26, 1988 Trends of ·Fraternities Lea~dinf~ Downhill. Other~ Liberal Arts Colleges· Abolish :i;raternitie~.; Un:ion to Follow Suit? Continu•d ftom page 1 as the College buying, or at.. for it$ greek ·system. Mid- wacy ·that there · WliS ·SOPJ.e . temptigg to buy, properties dlebury College in Middl~bury, chance . that the fraternity before any· greek organization, • Vermont has certain control might have been unable to Mar~ville ''assures (that it) • over the greek system because attain the permit;. refused. this . . bad zero to do with fraternities. they QVfn the houses. offer because of this con~ . Tliese px;op~rtie~ are ''easy . aecently; however;. a ad)'UD. Cts'to. campus.\ · fraternity .prank has caused tingency. From the seller's point of . Maranville also commented mucll debate at the college, and. view, it woUld be foollsh to · that had they, in fact, been ~ble the Associate Dean of Students, t ff 'th · h to purchase the American Carl Lindholm, believes that · =~wns an ~vo,~ed~ ne!&s · · Legion. bouse, they might not the s-ituation at Middlebuty will di ·r· ectty· WI'th the .s·chool. have< made an offer to Fair- event!Uilly match that of suc:h ' child.. colle..tes· . as Fr· anklin' . and· Fairchild 'informed the ad~· ;!:; ministration of l}is plt:tns to sell . As it $tands, the .greek system Marshall. his. house. 'The school in tul'll, is. safe .at our college. However, Colieges such as Amherst, seeing the advantage of· ·buying, at other ·Colleges, this is not the -· Colby., and Williams have long made an offer to the seller. This ca_se. Asqf late, atmany liberal ' sin«Je abolished their greek offer,. for Fairchild, was a gQod · arts colleges, the trend has been· · systems. oneandthe,one.he accepted. to slowly stunt, or even arrest Bowdoin College and :For Alpha Epsilon Pi this was • the growth of fraternity WeslEyan's fraternities have a harsh blew, as was stated in · systems. gone .co-educational, which the letter to the editor writted The .Soard of Trustees ~t · · admits David Stameshkin, by .Rockmore. For a period .of Franklin ' and Marshall, a · associate dean of students at ten· months, the brothers of . college approximately the same Framklin and Marshall, is a A;lpha _Epsilon Pi had. several size 'as Union in Lancaster, means to the end, or to stunt meetings with Mayor of Pennsylvania, for e~ample .growth of fraternities. Schenectady Katen Johnson, \has unanimously agreed to Joseph Mammola, dean of City Zoning. Inspector Jim withdl'aw support from the st11dents, accentuates that \the Kalohn, and City Planning Colleg~'s greek system.'' · College has not had any reason Director Jim Pone. The house The greek system at Franklin to initiate any of the actions was extensively examined by . · and Marshall, three years ago, agaii:Jst fraternites on our own Mr. Pone in. order t() assure the . was allowed from the· fall of 1984 campus as a group that have fraternity that meeting. city fire to the spring of 1987 to been initiated at schools like codeswasindeedap.ossibility~ ~·reform.\ After incidents in · · Amli:erst, Colby, and now After months · of work,. which 4isciplinary action ~with F·rallklin and Marshall.\ Fairchild sold' his house to the the fraiernities was necessary, \To their credit/' he con· school, unbeknownst to Alpha it was fhe opinion thaUhe.greek tinued, \fraternities have Ep~ilon Pi. Howev.er, ope must . system at that college, as well wor~ed with the College, on the look attbis as purely a business as nati~nally, had \slipped\ in whole, to be responsible transaction. Fairchild was a recent years. .After being members of the college com- seller who took· tne best offer . unable to effectively prove their munity. I believe that the that came to biro. But, of . worth, the board'::; decision was . fraternity system is not grossly course~. the parties involved made. alieaated from the ·Central were all' closely related and for . Gettysburg College in Get-· , • purpose of the college. As long a fraternity, finding .a house off tysburg~. Pennsylvanja is as tlieir goals and purposes. are. campus and ·close by js a dif- having a year•long study in• consistent With those of the ficulttask. volving outside consultants College, and they so act, then it The College has the ability to regarding their greek system. should not be necessary for us purchase any ·land or building Saint Lawrence has instituted a to take the kind of action taken as the opportunity arises, a three y~r tefotm similar to on <itller campuses!' fraterrii.ty does not. · that of Franklin nnd Marshall A fraternity .. muSt corn-·. ;;....F·-·-· ·~h-----· .--·w·..;.. .. ~i-1 ....... -H-.--. __ L ........... t't......__ mumcate-throughthe·chamels·: .·res-· men_< ·,·In- .n · ... OUSt~g .· o· ery of itS natnlnal and-its lawyev~, . Con.- til'l.ued< from .pa.ge .. 1 < · arid 'it •int!St ·recei'v£i appro~~l • - from m~my different parties t() · number to get a suite was 102. . opti€ln available .... none will be be.' allowed to make an \otf: For men, the number was 17. . ign()red.'' campus purchase. . · '' ; ' Becall5e of the demand for After the senior room lottery The plan, however, is not·~ sttites, Fox and Davidson were . · this past Monday, the only get 1n the way of fraternitieS: the first dormitories to be h()using not to be taken on The purchase , of . pro~ertie~ · selected. After the sUites were . campus were two complete by the College Is prrmarily for· taken, most ..freshmen chose to . . r:oorns in Richmond and three '!sug~ space\ according. to Dt; · live in West. All seniors, juniors • · half rooms for women scattered Jack Maranville; vice president· and sophomores. who chose to • thmughout the campus. AU for institutional planning. In tite · live in singles . next year w<Jmen who requested housing reconstruction and tnoveme'nf'. received ·them. · received ·it, but tllere remain of offices around campus, some·· A problem with the lottery · eleven men on campus without \temporary. office space ~s that remains to be addressed · housing. These elev:en have been eaten up.\ Any new concerns housing for students been placed on a waiting list acquisitions may be used, fox: who participate in the Terms · and will.be .notified July 1 on temporary office space, as wen· Abroad Program. Union their housing situation. Dean as a buffer zone to the rest of the guaral!ltees housing to those Wood stated that some students comnrtmity. . . . . students who want to live on already given h~using may As of yet, legally the school campus and ~hoose to take a leave the college for academic cannot use most of its off tetm abroad. This year the or personal reasons o~ because campus properties for college is housing 86 junior . theypreferoff-campus housing. residency or offices. If it were, womec as opposed to the 64 . There will then be a lottery it would have to go through the junior women they housed last arn<Jng these eleven men ac- ordinary city ·channels as well. ye;:tr. This implies that there is cording to their .class year 'and, At presen~, there are no specific more housing available for lottEry number. plans fer any bordering students who take a term ~erall, the majority of property. . abroad, as more women choose · students hav~ made The College;s. policy is· simply to take a term abroad. Because arrangements for housing on to try to \~cquire property as it the College has made a com- and <Jff-campus for next year, becomes available,. and hold as mitment to house these and Dean Wood is relatively part of Union College campus,\ students, Oean Wood stated . pleased with the results of the according to Maranville. As far that, \we will explore every 1988lottery. SENIOR CROSSTALK JUNE7 S.enior Cross Talk: Have You Gotten An Education In Four Years At Union? ' ATRIUM OF COLLEGE CENTER 8 PM ALL MEMBERS OF THE COLLEGE COMMUNITY .ARE WELCOME TO COME EXPRESS THE.IR OPINIONS ·. ~--------------~--~ N.OTlCE Due To Problems With · lhe Transmitter, W,RUC Will Be · Off.. The Air, Possibly Until The End Of The Term Caldwell. Taylor Speaks On \Grenada: T·he S ld . .. . . R .. . .. ,. . t' I \ mo ~ · er1ng . ev·o u ton ByELIZABETJIBERLINER Last Wednesday, C.aldwe11 Taylor spoke to a crowded: room concerning . the political evolution on the srnall island of Grenada. His relaxed manner of speaking and hUIIlorous outlookmadethediscussion of a controversial and. very · emotional' subject both en .. tertaining and informative, and · left the group longing for more time to examine the issue. Throughout tbe 17th and 18th centuries, Grenada was con- trolled by the French until,. in 1793, the' British moved in and \anglicanized\ the country, Eventually, in 1967~ it was declared an ''associated state\ which held responsibility for all Calwell Taylor was a member of this ye>ung, idealistic, and self· righteous group of individuals. of its own actions except in foreign affairs and self-defense. Unfortunately, this also meant aloss of imperialist support and the government soon became corrupt. In the early seventies, student activity and agitation spoke out against Br-itish im- perialism, and, joined by the educated factions of doctors and lawyers, rallied against . Grenada's ·Prime Minister, Eric Gery ~ commonly known as the \crime minister\. In· 1979, a new generation came to power through an ex,tra. governmentacy over~ throw: Caldwell Tayl()r was a member of this young, idealistic, and self-righteous group of individuals led by Morri~ Bishop. Becat113e of their movement towards Caribbean unity and interaction with Cuba, Us-Grenada relations were adversely affeded and their exchange of ambassadors was discontinued. In the end, · the Grenadian revolutionaries · could J}Ot last ag;3i11st US foreign policy; · In 191S3,. the government collapsed: 1111der a conspiracy to remove M()rris Bishop. When he was placed. 1.111der house arrest, 25,000 peo)lle rallied in . the streets to free him, f:lfter which he was captured and shot by .the military C()UilCil. It was at this time tha1 the United States invaded ()D the premise of protecting the American students on..tlle islaM. Today, tile old regime of the Grenada !Sational Party has returned; violence and unem· plQyment sweep the land. Ironically, the student sen- timent has ultimately turned fiercely cmti-American in that they believe America has failed to bring about the im., provements for which. that they had earlier sought and expected upon the :invasion. They longed for a retttin to dependency and protection from the powerful American· economy. Instead, they have been left to make it on their own~ and consequently, have fourtde<l the Morris Bishop Patriotic Movement in an at- tempt to once again gam political inf111ence. Today, file old regime or the Gren.ada National Party Ius returned. Caldwell Taylor has not returned to Grenada since the dissoluti<Jn of the young regime in 1983, and does not believe he could d(). S() safely in the im- mediate future. However, his family arJdhis loyalty remain in Grenada, and his greatest wish for the tin;y island is that it will \realize .s(ime of what Morris BishOp dreamed... maybe not all of it, but some.\ In addition, he hopes that the standard of living and economic possibilities will increase to a functional lEvel. At this time, Grenada seeks only a few honest ·leaders, and approval from the awesome power of the United States. · Grace to S:peak ... ConUnued from page 1 other degrees to Michael Butler Yeats, an Irish writer, economist, and statesman; Benjamin DeMott, Mellon Professor of English at Amberst College and a distinguished writer ()f fiction, · nonfiction, and essays; and Alvin Pcn1ssait, M.D., associate professor of psychiatry and ;:tssociate dean for students Affairs a1 Harvard Medical School. ..-----THIS WEEK'S EVENTS:-__, Thursday~ May 26: _ 5 p.m. Dining Hall. Mountebanks Din11er Theatre. 7 p.m. Achilles Rink. Band Concert ' 9 p.m. College Canter Atrium. Cabaret Friday, May 27: 5 p,m. Dining Hall. Mountebanks Dinner Theatre. 8 p.m. Library Field. Films: Animal House and Stripes \\ Saturday, May 28: CAMP UNION 5 p.m. Outen Hollow Restaurant. Dutellmen's night. 7 and 11 p.m. SS016. Films: Animal House and Stripes. 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel. Speakers forlJm- Comedian Sunday, May 29: 5 p.m. Outch Hollow Restaurant Dutchmen's night. 7 and 11 p.m. CO Aud. Films: A.nima1 House and Stripes. The Philosophy Department Of Un·ion College Wishes To A11nounce That The Colloquium Originally Scheduled For Friday, May 20,1988 Has Been Postponed Until TUESDAY,MAV 24,1988 AT 4:30PM IN HU 213 Professor Sven Peterson will speak on \Space Matter, and Mind·Biocks\ (suggested readings pertlnentot the talk are available In Humanities 215.) Followed by a reception In the Hutnal1i11es. Faculty Lounge ,l .\ I •: :I . ., ·) 'I ,; !I ,I ,; .. ,. ,,

Page 4 CONCORDIENSlS, May 26, 1988 Minerva Lecturer Traces the ·History of.· Anorexia-Nervosa in the Victo,ri,an Era By.AIMESIMON lnternaticmalFeatures Editor On Thursday, May 19th, Prof. Joan Brumberg of Cornell · University author of Fastmg Girls: the Emergence of Anorexia Nervosa as a Modem Disease, gave the· Minverva lecture on the topic, \Appetite as Voice: Anorexia in the Victorian Era.\ I.n her address Brmtiberg, traced the history of the disease from its discove~y . in the late 1880's to its manifestqtions and influence on college campuses today. thus arose the adage coined by . family. Duting her hospital George Eliot, \A woman .should stay, she was not asked any never he seen eafing.\ psycnologicar questions for Scatalogieal concerns also had Victorian society shied away an impact. Reduced con- .from e;x.amining emotional sumption was encouraged as . problems. Anorex:ics were the indelicacies associated with • generally clasified as ''morally digestion and elimination were ' perverse,\andaidwasdirected disdained. In fact, it was · mere1y t(): ''adding flesh\ to the common for a woman to boast, sublect. In contrast, today \Nature calls upon me hut once psychological evaluation is as or twice a week.\ substantial as physical She . asserted that family dynamics played an important role in causation of the pathelogy. Anorexia, emerging at the end of the nineteenth century affected priviledged' upper middle . class young women in the 16-24 old .age group. During 1his period in • history, the size of .the family was declining, the nurturing term for female (hildren, whc remained in their parents household until marriage, prolonged, and family life was intensilied. Adolescent girls were highly dependent on their parents, were held under close sc;rutiny. becoming emotionally ~nceless, although ecanomicallv useless. Often a child With an eating disorder could attract a · great deal of attention from the mother due to the need for continual interaction, pushing and pulling, inherent in the ritual of_ food ·offering and refusal. Not suprisingly, the general success of therapy for the patient corresponded tG removal from the home en- . vironrnent. Cultural pressures also had a · significant influence on tbe emergence .of .AnoreXia ac- cording to Brumberg. Ideals of · fashion changed in the strict and proper Victorian era. Robustness was now considered passe, a sign of working class origin, showing a lack of refinement and restraint. Slimness was admired as physical appearance was ill- terpreted as signifying one's moral, state. Being thin represented the triumph of the soul over the body, the ability to place ethereal interests abov-e ' baser preoccupations witb bodily satisfaction. In addition, displays of appetite implied :tc the Victorian conscience sexuality and promiscuity. a11d The symptoms of Anorexia diagnostic care and · both have not c!hanged drastically psychiatrists and nutrition · · experts are employed. Brumberg went on ta describe the democratizatian of Anorexia, the spreading of the diSease to the lower classes, due to mass media probency & power, w.hich became in- creasingly pervasive as the century progressed. By 1912, Marmola diet pills were being advertised in, Ladies Home Journal. Public diet strategies began t() be aimed excluslvely at fem;:tles, who were told that they must Suffer to be beautiful. Indeed, the rising divorce rate was att:ributed to the matronliness of married · women. In the 1920's· the Flapper lQok introduced by Coco Cbanel required a flat chest. Cigarette ads promoted the prodllct as an appetite control devise, and stan· dardized sizing added new vigour to the ''thinness\ campaign. In the 19~0's the Home Economics Movement made the weight of famjly members the mother 1 s responsibility. and at the same time new illfonnation was being 'i)ver the . years although hyperactivity, obsession with exercise, and Bulimia, , sequences of successive l>inging · and vomiting, are purely modern possible components of the .phenomenon. Treatment methods however .have un- dergone important reform. Prof. Brumber:g used the case study of Eva Williams from tM 1920~s to illllStrate this . .point. Eva's.symptoms were classic in that she professed lack .of hunger, complained of dif- ficulty in swallowing, of in- digestion, and pain af~ereating. The evidence of illness was merely a visible wastmg away, no damage to .organs, such as . the heart were cited, although · menstruatioll had ceased. Eva was admitted to the hospital weighing under 100 pounds, while she had weighed 140 pounds thr.ee years beforehand. Her treatment included massag(ls, warm baths, and forced feeding if necessary. The. . basic diet consisted . of fish, eggs, and .vegetables and new · items were added whenever · possible. Within. seven weeks Eva had gained 14 pounds and . was permi'~ted to return to her In the 1980's female college stlldents are especially vulnerable to the disease. \ dissemiria:ted linking obesity to heart disease.· The 60's were of course the. age of Twiggy. Thus the forces of science, marketing~ and public opi~on converged to create an ex- plosion in the incidence of Anorexia in the 1970's that has continued to build momentum today. Schaffer Library- Extended Hours In the 1980's female college students are ~specially vulherab1e to :the disease, BrUIIlberg · stressed. At a tuiiversity., a young woman bas tremend()us personal freedom, access to food at any time, and is in' a desocialized eating en- vironment. While· Joan admits that ther'e is nothing sbe can do to prevent Anorexia ill co-eds, she !lopes that her lectures on campllSes. can make an impact by ex:panding knowledge of the problem. Students and Professors Recall Vietnam Protests at {Jnion Continued fr.om pQge 2 to its primary focus of .teathine:. However., Mark Coven r~members good spirited dtscussions. ''There were professors who disagreed with us, but there was good heated debatt;, producing a highlY educational effort .for all in- volved.'' · · Students Take (}ver A:drplnistratioll B\lildbg: !lndComputer Cen:ter ~Minority Problems Ese~late One year later in ,May of 1971 the first ~udent t~e-Dver of a college building took place as a ,group of about la black students, .entered the ,Cornputer Center, asked the ,perSQnnel there to leave at once, ~nd according to Ct~i:lc4lrd:iensis, forcibly ejected ~n ad- mini$trator who had entered the building.- Later, the students issued their demands which wer.e. that (1) the Black Student Alliance he given oile ·of 'the buildings on Lenox; R()ad as a \cult{U'al center.\ {2} that schola,rships be increased, and (3) tllat amnesty be given to the participants in the take-,over. · The pl'Qtesters eventustly with- drew .of their own accord; a day later. Little was acco!llplished by their actions. ' A few days later, a second, and final take-ever occurred, when a· small group of white student:s moved into the A<lministration . Building with essentially the same three demands as the blacks. Like the • Computer· take-over, they gdt nowhere. However, the racial problems on campus were somethtngtbat woilld not go away. Political · Science _Professor Byron Nichols said some of tb.e blacks on campus· ~· .the time . were perceived to be quite militant. ''Some of the Blacks were visibly upset with wbat they perceived to b<lth racist attitudes and racist behavior in · the ~ampus atm6spher'e toward them.\ Nichols recalled that in looking for ,a new Dean. of Students the se~cb cQmmittee had as its num~r one .priority someone who could solve the race relations problem. ''We • . had -enough problem:::; that we hired a white !i'U\ :11Kl-pourid former DiVision I. basketball player as Dean to try and hn- prove. relations between, blacks and whites.\ ''ll Com.Dlencement Features Prof. Bick Tacildlng a Fellow Teacher Commencement of l971 saw the .most uglY fac.e ()f protest of the Wbole period. The. exercises had just barely begun wnen a rag•tag looking group marched onto Library Plaza, c@.try:ing what was thought to be a North Vietnlllllese flag,. and led by Dennis .Peskin '66, a part-time E n.gli s h Professor. Mathematics Professor Ted Bick, Class of '56, a veteran of the K:()rean War got up from the faculty section, stormed TakiRg over buildings, protest marches and · deuonstrations seem t(). be a thing of the past. thr.ollgh the bushes and wrestled Pesldn.to the ground. Bick attained lasting. fame as The Scbenect~dy · Gazette pictUl\e was picked up by evecy new~paper in U1e 'United states and manY others aU over the world. Compared to other campuses the actions at Union were subdued. 'l,'bete was no harassment of faculty. And, as Professor Board states best, \thedamage was no worse than anytlling like the aftermath· of most fraternity parties.,,, H<rwever., if a school is judged by the amolmt of intellectual growth a ,student receives in his foUI;years of college, there is ne doubtthestuderitsinvolved with the ·movement learned at a · y()ting ag~ that their generation . co.iild make a difference. With the Scorning. of many of t)leir ~ld,el\s the students ,fought for what they believed. T):ley may Mt-llave .gotten any subStantial m~eri,al gain_s in retw;n but they certainly expanded their . minds faster tban an~ clas~room experience cotrld ~ave ta~ght -tnem.. ··It's a lesson we should tearn · from almast .20 years later. Apathy, and the conservative view that-change is bad, creates a. static intellect11al en• . virenment. Taking over buildirtgs,protest marches and demonstrations seem to be a tbiltg of the past. But it cer- fairllY does not haveto be. <>n:e faculty ()bserver recalls · --the Dean of Undergraduate · Studies, William Darliels, one of two black professor$ ~mployea by the college at the time, wearing a Dash:ilti. (African· ganne.!lt) to classes. Monday, May 30- Tuesday, June 7 The Library will be open. from 11 P.M. to 1 A.ML for study:lng only Fratern:ities! No circulating or rese:rve materials will be charged out. No refe'rence desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the ALL \IGHT STUDY AREA. LQ,QKING .FOR.A :CHARITY· IDEA? THE NUTRITIO·N,AL C,O·UNSE:LING CENTER IN NISKAYUNA IS .LOOKING FOR A FRATER~ITY INTERESTED IN DOING GROUND WORK (MOWING ~D TRIMMING). /.Contact Rita Saunders at-370-4589 ·' _.· > UNION· OOLLEGE - ...... i:

Page 4 CONCORDIENSISJ May 26, 1988 Minerva Lecturer Anorexia-N·ervosa Traces the History of in the Victorian Era Students and Professors Recall Vietnam Protests at Union By AIME SIMON International Features Editor On Thursday, May 19th, Prof. Joan Brumberg ()f CorneH URiversity author of Fasting Girls: the Emergence of Anorexia Nervosa as a Modern Disease, gave the Minverva lecture on the topic, \Appetite as Voice: Anorexia in the Victorian Era.\ In her address Brumberg traced the history of the disease from its discovery in the late 1880's to its manifestations and influence on college campuses today. She asserted that family dynamics played an important role m causation of the pathology. Anorexia, emerging at the end of the nineteenth century affected priviledged upper middle class young women in the 16-24 old age group. During this period in history, the size of the family was declining, the nurturing term for female clllldren, who remained in their parents household until marriage, prolonged, and family life was intensified. Adolescent girls were highly dependent on their parents, were held under close sc:rutiny, becoming emotionally ~nceless, although economically useless. Often a chHd with an eating disorder could attract a great deal of attention from the mother due to th.e need for continual interaction, pushing and pulling, inherent in the ritual of food offering and refusal. Not suprisingly, the general success of therapy for the patient corresponded to removal from the horne en- vironment. Cultural pressW\es also had a significant influence on the emergence of Anorexia ac- cording to Brumberg. Ideals of fashion changed in the strict and proper Victorian era. Robustness was now considered passe, a sign of working class origin, showing a lack of refinement and restraint. Slimness was admired as physical appearance was in- terpreted as signifying one's moral. state. Being thin represented the triumph of the soul over the body, the ability to place ethereal interests above baser preoccupations with bodily satisfaction. In addition, displays of appetite implied to the Victorian conscience sexuality and promiscuity, and thus arose the adage coined by George Eliot. ''A woman should never be seen eating.\ • Scatalogical concerns also had an impact. Reduced con- . sumption was encouraged as the indelicacies associated with digestion and elimination were disdained. In fact, it was common for a woman to boast, \Nature calls upon me but once or twice a week.\ The symptoms of Anorexia have not changed drastica~ly '{lver the years although hyperactivity, obsession with exercise, and Bulimia, sequences of successive hinging and vomiting, are purely modern possible components of the phenomenon. Treatment methods however have un- dergone important reform. Prof. Brumberg used the case study of Eva Williams from the 1920's to illustrate this point. Eva's symptoms were classic in that she professed lack af hunger, complained of dif- ficulty in swallowing, of in- digestion, and paill after eating. The evidence of illness was merely a visible wasting a way, no damage to organs, such as the heart were cited, although menstruation had ceased. Eva was admitted to the hospital weighing under 100 pounds, while she had weighed 140 pounds three years beforehand. Her treatment included massages, warm baths, and forced feeding if necessary. The basic diet consisted of fish, eggs, and vegetables and new items were added whenever possible. Within seven weeks Eva had gained 14 pounds and was permitted to return to her Schaffer Library- Extended Hours Monday, May 3D- Tuesday, June 7 The Library will be open from 11 P.M. to 1 A.M. for studying only No ci.rculating or reserve materials wi II be charg.ed out. No reference desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink rest ric ted to the ALL NIGHT STUDY AREA. family. During her hospital stay, she was not askec;l any psychological questions for Victorian society shied away from examining emotional problems. Anorexics were generally clasified as \morally perverse,\ and aid was directed merely to \adding flesh\ to the subject. In contrast, today psychological evaluation is as substantial as physical diagnostic care and · both psychiatrists and nutrition experts are employed. Brumberg went on to describe the democratization of Anorexia, the spreading of the disease to the lower classes, due to mass media probeacy & power, which became in- creasingly pervasive as the century progressed. By 1912, Marmola diet pills were being advertised in Ladies Home Journal. Public diet strategies began to be aimed exclusively at females, who were told that they must suffer to be beautiful. Indeed, the rising divorce rate was attrib1:1ted to the matronliness of married women. In the 1920's the Flapper look introduced by Coco Chanel required a flat chest. Cigarette ads promoted the product as an appetite control devise, and stan- dardized sizing added new vigour to the \thinness\ campaign. Ill the 1950's the Home Economics Movement made the weight <lf family members the mother's responsibility, and at the same time new information was being In the 1980's female college students are especially vulnerable to the disease. disseminated linking obesity to heart disease. The 60's were of course the age of Twiggy. Thus the forces of science, marketing, and public opinion converged to create an ex- plosion in the incidence of Anorexia in the 1970's that has continued to build momentum today. In the 1980's female college students are especially vulnerable to the disease, Brumberg · stressed. At a university, a young woman has tremendous personal freedom, access to food at any time, and is in a desocialized eating en- vironment. While Joan admits that there is nothing she can do to prevent Anorexia in co-eds, she hope3 that her lectures on campuses can make an impact by expanding knowledge of the problem. Continued from page 2 to its primary focus of teaching. However, Mark Coven remembers good spirited discussions. \There were professors wno disagreed with us, but there was good heated debate, producing a highly educational effort for all in- volved.\ Students Take Over Administration Building and Computer Center -Minority Problems Escalate One year later in May of 1971 the first student take-over of a college building took place as a group o.f about 15 bJiack students, entered the Computer Center, asked the personnel there to leave at once, and according to Concordiensis, forcibly ejected an ad- ministrator who had entered the building. Later, the students issued their demands which were that (1) the Black Student Alliance be given one of the buildings on Lenox Road as a \cultural center,\ (2) that scholarships be increased, and (3) that amnesty be given to the participants in the take-over. The protesters eventually with- drew of their own accord, a day later. Little was accomplished by their actions. ' A few days later, a second, and final take-over occurred when a small group of white students moved into the Administration Building with essentially the same three demands as the blacks. Like the Computer take-over, they got nowhere. However, the racial problems on campus were something that would not go away. Political Science Professor Byron Nichols said some of the blacks on campus at the time were perceived to be quite militant. \Some of the Blacks were visibly upset with what they perceived to both racist attitudes and racist behavior in the campus atmosphere toward them.\ Nichols recalled that in looking for a new Dean of Students the search committee had as its number one priority someone wh<l could solve the race relations problem. ''We had enough problems that we hired a white 6'11\ 300-pound former Division I basketball player as Dean to try and im· prove relations between. blacks and whites.\ One faculty observer recalls · the Dean of Undergraduate Studies, William Daniels, one of two black professors employed by the college at the time, wearing a Dashiki (African garment) to classes. Fraternities! LOOKING FOR A CHARITY IDEA? THE NUTRITIONAL COUNSELING CENTER IN NISKAYUNA '71 Commencement Features Prof. Bick Tackling a Fellow Teacher Cemmerrcement af 1971 saw the most ugly face of protest of the whole period. The exercises bad just barely begun when a rag-tag looking group marched onto Library Plaza, carrying what was thought to be a North Vietnamese flag, and ted by Dennis Peskin '66, a part-time English Professor. Mathematics Professor Ted Bick, Class of '58, a veteran of the Korean War got ~p fr-om the faculty section, stormed Taki,ng over buildings, protest marches and demonstrations seem to be a thing of the past. through the bushes and wrestled Peskin to the groWld. Bick attained lasting fame as The Schenectady Gazette picture was picked up by every newspaper in the United States and many others aU over the world. Compared to other campuses the actions at Union were subdued. There was no harassment of faculty. And, as Professor Board states best, \the damage was no worse than anything like the aftermath of most fraternity parties.'' However, if a school is judged by the amount of intellectual growth a student receives in his four years of college, there is no doubt the students involved with the movement learned at a young age that their generation could make a difference. With the scorning of many of their elders, the students .fought for what they believed. They may not have gotten any substantial material gains in return but they certainly expanded their minds faster than any classroom experience could have taught them. It's a lesson we should learn from almost 20 years later. Apathy, and the conservative view that change is bad, creates a static intellectual en- vironment. Taking over buildings,protest marches and demonstrations seem to be a. thing of the past. But it cer- tainly does not have to be. IS LOOKING FOR A FRATERNITY INTERESTED IN DOING GROUND WORK (MOWING AND TRIMMING). UNION COLLEGE Contact Rita Saunders at 370-4589 = -· - i: t

·CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 PageS j' INTERNATIONAL ·FEAT.URES . ' ' Mexic·o Faces Elections ~y ANDREWMAREIN Mexico · . is holding a Presidential election this year. There are . major differences between the U.S. political system and that of Mexico .. One plac~ of major \difference is in the political party structure. The United States is mainly a two party system in which Democrats and Republicans hold primaries in which. any member may announce his or her candid<}CY for apy elected position. In Me'lrico the political system is mainly a one party system. In this system the Institutionary Revolutionary Party (PRI) has been in .. power for over fifty years. Mexico does not have a primary system and its can- didates for office are selected by the leader13 of the party. In order to run for public office a candidate must be the can~ didate of an existing party in order to be on the ballot. The PRI party :is represented by each sector of MeXican soCiety. The largest labor unions in Mexico, the Con- federation de Trabajadores Mexi¢ano~ ( CTM), Con- federation National de Cam- pesinos, and the Confederation Republican de Ohreros Popular support the PRI. These unions represent the farn1ers and workers of Mexico. The PRI has never lost a gobernatorial race to any of the opposition parties. In the early days of the PRI the opposition was funded and supported by the PRI itself. In this election year a new party has been formed by Cuahtemoc Car- denas son ot. ex-president of Mexico Lazaro Cardenas. This man has formed the Corriente Democratica, a leftist party which is formed ofmany·ex PRi officials. This party with the little resources given to it by the govermnent has launched C~ahtemoc Cardenas for the presidency ofMexico. In response to tbis split in its ranks the PRI decided to hold a selection process in which six ·Are you going~ on a term ab_road? · or Do you want to go on a term abroad? Find an answer to all your QUESTIONS about going abroad. A follow up to last terms Panel Discussion • wi1h • Prof. Thomas \ • Prof. Nichols ·Nicolas Boch and Students from Japan and York , will be there to answer your questions. THURSDAY, JUNE 2. CC AUDITORIUM 4:30 P.M .. JAPAN FOUNDATION AWAROS GRANT TO UNION The Japan Foundation has awarded Union a Staff Expansion Grant of about .$70,000 to support a full-time Japanese language and literature teacher for a period to three years.- Under the terms of this matching grant, Ur:)iolil wilt provide additiqnal funds for the teaching· pos.ition. The grant was submitted by Don Thurston, professor of .history arid political science, who says this s1:1pport will allow Union to better prepare students for the Te(m Abroad and e~change program with Kansai University of Foreign Studies (Kansai Gaidai) in Hirakata, Japan. In addition, the presence o.f this new faculty member will also allow for more enrichment of the College's offering in East Asian Studies. The Jap~n Foundation is a non-profit organization whose objecitive is to promote international cultural exchange. and rnutual understanding between Japan and countries overseas. : ~\':·-~-::i;..-:1.-~~~·~ ... - >~·.,·~ ' ~ public officials choosen by the party leaders will be in- terviewed for the Presidency, The six men selected held a present cabinet position in the Mexican government. In the interviews each man highly praised' the President .of Mexico and said nothing of what they would do if elected president of Mexico. The candidate which the PRJ selected was Carlos Salinas de Gortari, ex Secretary of Comp1erce. This man is a close friend of the .present president of Mexico. This man will be Mexico's next. president but if he is; ~able to deal with the present economic crisis con- fronting Mexico he will have to allow greater democracy in Mex:ico which will infuriate his small' group of supporters. If he does nothing, the risk of revolution is great ·as the Mel'dcan society grows angrier and more cynical towards the PRL U'PEOPLES, PLACES AND FACES\ Prof. Twitty Styles wHI show slides from his recent trip- to Japan and China On Tuesday, May 31 in HUMANITIES 019 at 4:30 p.m. Especially for Students Going To Japan and China. Miguel de Ia Madrid, President of Mexico THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH International Features Hungary: the Commpnist Party namCd Premier Grosz. 57,. a hard nosed politician who can be expected to proceed with economic changes, to succeed the 75-year-old IC:adar, who had been the leader of Hungary since 1956. South Africa: Assailants hurled hand grenades at a political rally in the township of Soweto, killing at least two people and wounding about 30 others, police said. thoe attack came amid an upsurge of violence over the weekend. Five blacks were killed in clashes in Natal province and a wllite farmer was burned to' death ncar Johannesburg. Persian Gulf: Iranian gunboats attacked a Ncrwegian owned tanker in the Southern Persian Gulf wounding a 'crewman as the ship headed toward Kuwait. South Korea: Funeral turned violent as thousands of protesters battle police after carrying the coffin of a dissident student through the street of Seoul. Street battles involving at least 32,000 people erupted in 34 locations ac(()SS the country. Israel: Israeli soldiers raided two isofatcd vilbges in the West Bank and kilkd a Palestinian youth after they were surrounded by hundreds of stone-throwing protestors. India: Sikh sq~aratist~ surrendered lo Iudian troops at .the Golden ~emple ·~ Amntsar, but three committe£ suicide by swallowmg cyanide capsules and one was shotand killed as he attempted to escape. (Source: Wall Street Journal, 05/17-()5/23) FRENCH MOVIE Avery funny classic with Ja.cques Tati Monday, May 30th, \LES VACANCES ~~ 0 fa~· DE MR. HULOT\ . ... MINIMAL DOWN PAYMENT. FROM flliiD TO ASSIST Vllrtl YOUR GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION·. YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERVE ITt * WifiT Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DEi AILS: 199 CENTRAL AVE. ALBANY, NY 12206 489-5414 .l i ,, d. .:'2 l :::;) , I Cti :z Ui t; ;. ~ < .~, C!l ,, ~ g 0 :::r: D. .I· I' I ;, ' I,

CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 Page 5 INTERN.ATIONAL FEATURES Mexico Faces Elections By AN:DR.EW MAREIN Mexico is holding a Presidential election this yea,r. There are major differences between the U.S. political system and that of Mexico. One place of major difference is in the political party structure. Th.e United States is mainly a two party system ia which Democrats and Republicans hold primaries in which any member may announce his or her candidacy for apy elected position. A In MexicG the political system is mainly a one party system. In this system the Institutienary Revolutienary Party (PRI) has been in power for over Hfty years. Mexico does not have a primary system and its can- didates £or office are selected by the leaders of the party. In order to run for public office a candidate must be the can- didate of an existing party in order to be on the ballot. The PRI party is represented by each sector of Mexican society. The largest labor unions in Mexico, the Con- federation de Trabajadores Mexicanos (CTM), Con- federation National de Cam- pesines, and the Confederatien Republican de Obreros Popular support the PRI. These unions represent the farmers and workers of Mexico. The PRI has never lost a gobernatorial race to any of the opposition parties. In the early days of the PRI the opposition was funded and supported by the PRI itself. In this election year a new party has been formed by Cuahtemoc Car- denas son of ex-president of Mexico Lazaro Cardenas. This man has formed the Corriente Democratica, a leftist party which is formed of many ex PRI officials. This party with the little resources given to it by the government has launched Cuahtemoc Cardenas for the presidency of Mexico. In response to this split in its ranks the PRI decided to hold a selection process in which six Are you going on a term abroad? or Do you want to go on a term abroad? Find an answer to all your QUESTIONS about going abroad. A follow up to last terms Panel Discussion with • Prof. Thomas • Prof. Nichols • Nicolas Boch and Students from Japan and York will be there to answer your questions. ifHURSDAY, JUNE 2. CC AUDITORIUM 4:30 P.M. JAPAN FOUNDATION AWARDS GRANT TO UNION The Japan Foundation has awarded Union a Staff Expansion Grant of about $70,000 to support a full-time Japanese language and literature teacher for a period to three years. Under the terms of this matching gran1, Union will provide additional funds for the teaching position. The grant was submitted by Don Thurston, professor of history and political science, who says this support will allow Union t,o better prepare students for the Term Abroad and exchange program with Kansai University of Foreign Studies (Kansai Gaidai) in Hirakata, Japan. In addition, the presence of this new faculty member will also allow for more enrichment of the College's offering in East Asian Studies. The Japan Foundation is a non-profit organization whose objecitive is to promote international cultural exchang.e and mutual understanding between Japan . and countries overseas. public officials r;:hoosen by the party leaders will be in~ terviewed for th.e Presidency. The six men selected held a present cabinet pesitien in the Mexican government. In the interviews each man highly praised the President of Mexico and said nothililg of what they would do if elected president of Mexico. The candidate which the PHI selected was Carlos Salinas de Gortari, ex Secretary of Commerce. This man is a close friend of the present president of Mex:ico. This man will be Mexico's rnext president but if he is unable to deal with the present economic crisis con- fronting Mexico he will have to allow greater democracy in Mexico which wiU infuriate his small group of supporters. If he does nothing, the risk of revolution is great as the Mexican society grows angrier and more cynical towards the PRI. \PEOPLES PLACES AND FACES\ Prof. Twitty Styles will show slides from his recent trip to Japan and China On Tuesday, May 31 ill HUMANITIES 019 at 4:30 p.m. Especially for Students Going To Japan and China. E1 Miguel de Ia Madrid, President ofMexico THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD By NICOLAS BOCH International Features Hungary: the Communist Party named Premier Grosz, 57, a hard nosed politician who can be expected to proceed with economic changes, to succeed the 75-year-()}d Kadar, who had been the leader of Hungary since 1956. South Africa: Assailants hurled hand grenades at a political rally in the township of Soweto, killing at least two people and \Vounding about 30 others, police said. the attack came amid an upsurge of violence over the weekend. Five blacks were killed in clashes in Natal province and a white farmer was burned to· death ncar Johannesburg. Persian Gulf: Iranian gunboats attacked a Norwegian owned tanker in the Southern Persian Gulf wounding a crewman as the ship headed toward Kuwait. South Korea: Funeral turr-:ed violent as thousands of proLesters battle police after carrying the ce>ffin of a dissident sUJdent through the street of Seoul. Street battles involving at kast 32,000 pcopk erupted in 34 locations across the country. Israel: Israeli sokli~rs raided two isolated villages in the West Bank and kilkd a Palestinian youth after they were surrounded by hundreds of stone-throwing protestors. India: Sikh separatists surrendered t<l Iudian troQps at the Golden ~emplc i_n Amritsar, but three committed suicide by swallowmg cyan1de capsules and one was shot and killed as he att~mpted to escape. (Source: Wall Street Journal, CJS/17-05/23) FRENCH MOVIE Monday, May 30th, 8:00p.m. \LES VACANCES DE MR. HULOT\ CC406 GUARANTEED FINANCING QUALIFIED BUYERS!* A very funny classic with Jacques Tati 0 MINIMAL DOW'N PAYMENT. FROM FORD TO ASSIST WITH YOUR PURCHASE!* GIVE YOURSELF A NEW FORD FOR GRADUATION~ YOU WORKED HARD, YOU DESERVE IT! *With Proper Qualifications. CALL FOR DETAILS: 799 CENTRAL AVE. AlBANY, NY 122D6 489-6414

Page 6 CONCORDIENSI$,. May 26 1 . 19_88 FEATURES Talk of The Town Interviews and Photos by Susan Kerscb \The old skellar, the theater and Gel-time.\ Mike Hiller '88 \Free beer, spring term and smart food. Sandy Nueil '88 Patti Houmlel '88 Con.cordiensis · recently a$ ked thl! Class of-~ '88: \What will you miss most about Union.?\ \An education.\ Greg Zaml:llasa \Helen Au psi • you know her, you love her, you can't live without her. J·ean Monaco '88 Shelly Plno '88 \The aura of tradition that the school has tried so hard tQ maintain;\ Jeff Carstens '88 ·\ The ·Prizes Th.at Weren'·t Given on Prize Day, But Should Have Been By ALEX GARDNER The constant flow of credit card offers, opportunities to buy life insurance, communications from the alumni council, and sudden realizations that the best four years of my life may be behind me is starting to inundate me with cynicism. So in return, I have chosen to slash back at all those who, during the course of my four years, have facilitated my deprecation. Being one of the many students that was snubbed on Prize Day, I would like to call for the creation of a series of new prizes to be awarded. The folloWing are some possibilities. THE SCREW OFF AWARD: A prize of $100 to be awarded to the senior graduating with the lowest ctim. The prize does not apply to students who get so scared about their entering into the real world that they flunk out spring term. Yes folks this was .accomplished last year by an anonymous person who still has yet to receive his diploma. - THE NOTT SCHOLAR AWARD: A prize of $1000 will be awarded to the first member of the college community - student, faculty member, or administrator - who comes up with something constructive to do with the Nott Memorial. THE GUT AWARD: A prize of $1000 to be given to the professor who has the most spring term seniors in his class. THE HUMANITARIAN AWARD: A prize of one million dollars to the first person who blows up the Idol. THESAPFRATAWARO:A . prize of $50 will be given to the Fraternity that in the last four years has not gone under social probation of any kind. The winning fraternity must use the money to do something at least slightly crazy: An unregistered party; gas money for kid- napping a pledge or the hiring of a cheap dancer. THE LEAST LIKELY TO BE AN AIDS CARRIER AWARD: We will award $25 to all those men and women who have either not found Mr. or Mrs. Right or who are waiting forthe wedding day. No tests will be required; we will take your word for it. THE \JUST ASK HOW\ AWARD: $25 dollars will be awarded to the Concordiensis staff member who writes at least a slightly controversial article that pisses people off enoughto attract a response. THE HERSH AND ROBE A WARD: $50 will be awarded to the Concordiensis columnist that cla.ims expertise in a certain field but fails to show any reason for us to believe his is qualified to judge anything. THE MOOCH AWARD: One cent will be awarded to each senior-independent who has managed not to Spend a penny on alcohol. THE REST OF WEST AWARD: $15 to the senior who has failed to put on the fresh- man15. The Bands start Saturday at 2:00 on West Beach! THE APATHY IS THE BEST POLICY A WARD: One ticket to Proctors will be awarded to a student who has faHed to attend a cultural event on campus,. (cabaret, lecture, play), and an extra bonus will be thrown in to those who have failed to vote in anelection. THE HENRY CLAY AWARD: $100 to the student who has continually run for student elected; positions and has failed to take the hint that although he might be qualified, it is more fun to- see him repeatedly lose. THE \BROWN\ NOSE AWARD: $100 to the student who is so insistent on sucking up to the administration that he writes a letter to the editor enthusiastically praising the top brass of the school. (If the winner of this and the Herny Clay award is the same person, he wins the mini grand slam and gets a $500 bonus). THE WEEKEND HYPO- CRITE AWARD: $25 to those students who seductively scream out their version of \Mony-Mony\ and regularly leave parties with their roommates by their side. Co me Hear the Sing·· ·~··\ ~t/J; UNlONAIRS ~ THEIR GREATEST H·ITS !! WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1 OLD CHAPEL, 12:15 P.M You are cordially invited to hear the UNIONAIRS ·in their' own concert on WEDNESDAY, JUNE 1, in OLD CHAPEL at 12:15 pm. This will be the last performance of this school year, and we hope to have you come. Refreshments (Punch and Cookies) will be provided after the concert COME AND JOIN US. WE HOPE TO BRIGHTEN YOUR DAY, AND YOU WILL BRIGHTEN OURS WITH YOUR ATIENDANCE. SENIORITIS By LeAta Jackson Senioritis is a column designed to bring together announcements of particular iriterest to members of the class oC88. - Senior Dinner· this Sunday - 6 p.m.- semi-formal . .. So things are winding up· for the senior yel!l\ 1988. We are reading our last books, writing our bst labs and .papers, going to our last parties, cabarets, formals. Some people are hanging their head against computer· terminals writing those last chapters of their tl1esis. Some are burpjng the midnight oil finishing that project.'. Ot.lters have already \psyched themselves out\ that school is over and they are lazing about somewhere with a coici drink in theifhand. We are winding up affairs with the Registrar:s Offic~anclthe Accqunting office. The caps & gowns have been ordered, the senior pictures have come back. We are taking advantage of the party weekends and the senior dinner and department picnics and the good weather ( .•. alright so rm stretching it about the weather). Things seem to be winding up for the class ofl988 at Union College. But think of it this way, folks. All the arudety, all the paper work, all the bull of senior year is almost over. Thing$ are winding up for that dramatic jllinp into .the real world. Some people have set into motion .plans for what they l!re going to do and where they ate going to be after June 12. We are winding up for that first job, that first apartment, aJi.d yes, money! With no strings attached except the responsibility to spend iL Seeds have been planted for memories which will be enjoyed foryears. Things are winding up for us to \boldly go .. ;\ We are the last class to remember: the cheap pla.Stic chaits in West Dining Hall the pub when it was a pub (and not a food court) painting the idol behind the library the Pre-Registrati~ ~tampeq¢: of Winter term 1985 drunk club when. it was foFseniors the quote ''This is not Woodstock, it is Camp Union.\ 17 more days ..• \Graduation adds pomp to yo11r circumstances.\ ..

' . . CONCORDIENSIS,.. May 26, 1988 I See What You're Saying!!! ByDQNNALANZEND()RF Sign Language... that sigtling fun and innovative! Expect to see much more 'from Speaking Hands in the near future and you are invited t() be a part' of iH We will miss some great seniors but we're ready to take on the fres}unen · and · you, the campus com- munity! Call any of the officers to get your name on our list this spring, and ask these members what it's aU about! Chances are they may even he able to \sing\ a·Uttle .James. Taylor to you! [t will be the nicest thing you understand all day! ! So can YOU hear what I'm sigili'ng .. ! Treas. CherylSobieraj Secret. HilarySilver Tracy Bagatelle Jill August Courtney Bartll Bobbi Carrol Beth Deaner Christine Dvorsky Mary Farris Eric Frishman Christine Gleeson Roberta Goldberg Michele Kupfer Kristin Knauf Debbie. Mulford' Tracy Reynolds .rage 1 gracefulway of .saying how you feel. It's fascinating and beautiful to watch, but to many, it is an essential part of life. All too often this form of com~ munication is left to the chosen few· who teach within our deaf community. Why? Deaf people are active people;. engineers, artists, biologists and yes, even people you Will Qorne in contact with. A group of Union College students now are forming a' setting for this skill to be learned. \SPEAKING HANDS\ - a club designed purposefully to learn and ex:ercise sign language skills within our OWn college community is officially bere ·to stay! Recognized by Student Forum and our Student Activities Office, Speakitlg Hands is concluding their first term of instruCtion;. and anxiously looking forward to fall term and your in- volvement! Pres. Donna Lanzendorf V.P~ Debbie Culver Gwen Wallace Nilgun)1git Ellen Kapi[off Members of the Class of'88: These boys are going toba graduating? Club members have joined for a variety of reasons, but :r: many enjoy signing purely for ~ the fun and value in securing ·~ this vital means of com- ~ muni<;ation. In the process, we :s are learning more about the (fJ Capital District's efforts to 10 raise the public awareness § about hearing impaired and the :c deaf, as well as the facilities c.. springing up all over to ac- commodate their needs. .. Sounds interesting, doesn't it? Currently we meet-- once a week in the college center and spend, about an hour with Jacquelin Serebrani- from the Empire State Institute for the Performing Arts. Sh~ makes Earth • • • @u,\~~ ~~II@~ UNION COLLEGE !!@$$) ByANNECARL Earth Day was a tremendous success. A ,greater part of last week's outdoor events went off as scheduled, despite huge rain cloud configurations also in attendance. \Earth Week\ as some insist on calling it, began during lm1ch time on Wed- nesday, May 18th, and ·con- tinued on .into Sunday, May 22nd, or \Earth. Day\ and the .celebrating looked something Iikethis: · Wednesday's Earth Speak was a series of .short presen- tations to honor the Earth. Wint Aldrich, assistant to the New York State CDmmissioner on *Wash, Cut, Blow Dry Plus 1 Tanning Session $12.00 Women $10.00 Men Tanning . Special 1st Visit Free . We$kly 6 Visits $6 .. 95 Tanning Special . 50 Visits . $49.95. Tanning Special Sculptured Nails & Tips . 100 Visits· • $.24.95 . $75,00 reg. 3s.oo with Union tD.'-. ___ __...,.~ Walk-Ins Welcome *Student Price Available with Select Hairdressers: Please mention this ad. 1307 Nott St. 1 Block Past Ellis Hospital Schenectady 370-4630 Environmental Affairs, opened things up with a brief talk about the political nature of adequate environmental responsibility. He urged anyone interested in state environmental openings to apply, so if you're still looking for that summer job •.. Then, for something _ co:rnpletely dif- ferent, Emily Farrell, an herb and crystal enthusiast, passed crystals around for onlookers to touch and wonder at, and herbs to smell and eat. Using esoteric explanations, she gave a brief summary of their healin~ powers, something totally new to many. Schenectady's own Mary Predel gave a word on recycling, hopefully given in time to save Schenectady from getting buried in its own gar~ bage. Mr Oliver Wendel Mt. Pleasant, from the Tuscal_\ora Nation, giVing a presentation \ which inspired all, spoke on the red man~s way of appreciating Nature. And finally, Gail George had everyone perform · with her a ritual honoring the · .Earth and its four directions. There · was something for everyone. On Thursday, the Earth Day recycling crew assembled during a torrential rain storm to . collect 1900 lbs. of paper, which faculty members and students · ' alike had collected over_the past few weeks. Predel's Recycling plant bought the whole truck full for a grand total of $14.25, and the \worthless\ paper will be recycled to make newsprint, tissue paper, grocery bags, cardbpard and other demanded products tbat all of liS take for granted.at one time oi\another. Later that day, a public test of the water in the \Brook that Bounds\ through campus, expertly conducted by Donna Lanzendorf, showed that there were high amounts of chlorine, E. coli and human waste in the water. Think twice before drinking it. Because of the rain, traffic and other minor delays, the Earth Day tree~ which was supposed to be. planted that afternoon, has been rescheduled for sometini.e this week. It's a beautifw zumi crab tree, generously donated by Faddigon's Nursery; check it out once it's in the ground near the Idol. Koyallnisga1si, the Earth Oay Movie, was a big hit, and ••a drugless high\ on Thursday night. Based on a Hopi Indian word meaning 'Life out of Balance~, this movie combines brilliant cinematogi\aphy with a Philip Glass score. It truly was an amazing movie. Earth Dayers broke early Saturday morning to join in a commtmity effort to restore beatiful Steinmetz Park on Lenox Rd. Late Saturday night, Earth enterntainment got underway featuring Uni()n's Gospel Choir, folk songs with guitar and flute, and other singing and chanting that kind HOLD YOUR BREATH DISTORDIENSIS IS HERE NEXT WEEK Aspects of the Earth of just emerged from the Eartli. One tent was spotted ()!l Saturday night out on Union's rough and wet terrain, but that's no indication of what may happen at some future date, say Earth Sleep speculators. Those .who ventured to West Beach on Earth Day at high noon experienced fine weather, northern lights, continenbll drift, and contact with ~n in- telligent lifefonn. It was Ellie Marshall of UJonathon Rich- man and the Modern Lovers\ singing and playing with Ro[) Johnson, and the Earth Day Committee was calling it \Earth Stock\ and for good reason. Old and new games were played, as Ellie and Rob played the music of Carole King, the Mamas and the Papas, Ronnie Blakely, the Beatles, the Supremes, and a whole lot more. It was nuts. In these nex:t couple weelai, look for the solar oven demonstl·ation under the SU!l. Perhaps the Earth table will appear again, as well. Feel free to stop by and pick up some invaluable information on everything from household toxin alternatives to garbage and acid rain, herbs, crystals ... etc. The Earth Day Committee regrets that the T~shirts were .never printed, and apologizes to those who wanted onE. Finally, the committee would like to thank everyone who took time out to celebrate the Eartll. Let the celebration continue. WOMEN'S TENNIS There will be an important informational meeting with Athletic Director Richard Sakata, Tuesday .May 31st at 4:00pm in the Classroom in Alumni Gym. 0 b ::r: ll. ~ u: . ! ' '

... Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 . '·-· .. ,. 'l.'r'·~-·· ~-: . ...,.. ·; •, ~ . -: . J ···.;. FEATURES The Way We Wer,e By JIM MANLEY This story you are about to read may sound like fiction, but there is a group of Union students to which this story will be all too real; it is for them I write. A few years ago when I was a lad, I had a quite strange ex- perience in a strange place that had quite a strange name. I often look back and smile. I woke one morning and missed breakfast again, but it was of little consequence because I was paying for it anyway- I was stupid, I was a fr·esh- man. Instead of eating I dressed and went to class. I had another amazingly difficult time finding the room- I always thought that I had to find the blue triangle with the day-glo spheres, but it's really the checkered dome with white Strip~ that was my department. Anyway, I sat through mum of it without realizing it was Wednesday- you see, we never had class on Wednesday. It was a .really smart system, all the students liked it. With no activity in the front of the class I was afforded the opportunity to recall the . various events that clogged my brain so severely the night before. I was at a place commonly referred to as the Skellar, and this place serves beer- cold, cheap, friendly beer, and they serve it in pitchers. I drank this beer at a large round table with a large, black X on my hand that my friend had put on me so they would let me have this beer. It sure was good, and there was music there-not loud, fancy music, but simple rock and roll. As a matter .of fact we all sang to it, especially \American Pie.\ They played that one a lot. Someone called this place a social altemative. I called it a good time. · Remembering this, I could now piece together· what to do for the rest of :the day. 1 got out of class, a bit late, but out nonetheless, and the day was mine. I thought I could always · go to that Skellar place~ but I was told that they don't serve beer Wltil 2:00, so I decided to walk around a bit first .. The idea of checking my mail sounded appealing, and I was off to a large, old building with a majestic, college sounding name. r think it was Carnegie, but maybe they changed it. Anyway, I walked up these big steps and into tbis place. It didn't look like most places today, you know with all those sun roofs and lights. It was a classic. There were big marble stairs and.oldMlooking Wi!llS, you kn()W, like a eo liege would have. I decided to hWlt for the mailroom, but I didn't have to look long,. since once I got near the door I was dragged in by the powerful current of students that fluwed in and out of this place .. Once inside I saw all the people I had seen the previous night . and they were very friendly-quality people at this place. One of the more outgoing of these students invited me to the Pub. Being adventurous, I went with him. Down some · stairs was a really cozy little joint, with stained glass win• dows and beautiful wooden floors. It looked like it had been recently refurbished, not the kind of place that was going to be changed real SQon. This guy told me that the Pub also served this beer stuff, bu.t it was a little more expensive here~­ ~~~ · something about atmosphere I , think he said.- whatever. .In addition to this beer, they also served a wide vai'lety of what he called mixed drinks. I did not have one but he assured me that they were tasty as well. After sitting for awhile we .played Some fun games and watched: T.V. on this big ol' screen. He then took me over to this little cubby where they made this fancy bread called \pizza.\ It was sweU.lhada good time and the young man was quite an affable sort; I hope he is doing well. Before he left he told me if I really wanted to meet people I should go to the library, that's where the action was. girls, and they were all talking to apyune who woWd listen. T~lking was a bit stuf(y for me though, and I rm:nbled on. There was a large metal dog of some sort covered in war paint .out- side, I simply let this one pass. My neld: stop was an ·old b1;Jilding, kind of seedy, with a little hole in the ground that had lines painted on the bottom of it, and a big cage fW.l of animals that were moving large objects around. This place needed fixing up, bUt I don't think anybody ever woUld do it-- it would take far too long. Unimpressed, I rambled on and wondered how I got to this place, andhowhappy I was that l didn't have any classes in the middle of the week. This was a good place, a happy school. Just as I was about to return home and hop in this junky old loWlge on big ugly ·couches with pizza stains on them, I heard some really g()od musi.c coming from somewhere. I followed the sounds until I found a big band out on this 'field,. with kids dancing on it. There was also a big truck that seemed to be leaking that beer .stuff. Everybody was catching it, though, so it wouldn't muddy up the ground. I spent the day ~ere. Scott Pearlman, Greg Zambiasi, Dave Orlando enjoying their last weeks at Union. He was right, this place hopped. Girls, girls and more A few weeks later I had to leave this place. It turns out I had applied to a different school and had to go there. I've never been back to . that place but I know it is still the same- good things never cbange. I think that some of those kids I knew are graduating soon- I wish ~hem the best of luck. They knew what it was all about. 0 5 if OUTING CLUB PHOTO OF THE WEEK: .:&;- This past weekend, the Outing Club took a trip into the vast wilderness of the Adirondacks. We spent an enjoyable day hiking, spelunking, and rock climbing. 1his week's photos are. of a chasm that we discovered and explored. FRESHMAN CLASS UBEN & JERRY'S\ ICE CREAM PARTY IT'S FREE at West College Friday 12:30 - 3:00 pm BLAS and Gamma Phi Beta . ~ Hold·· Program . on Racism By SUSAN SLOFFER Features Editor Racism is an issue that is being brought to everyone's attention acrossthe country. On many college campllSes a rise in racism has been noted. BLAS and Gamma .Phi Beta recently. held a program to educate one another about their feelings on racism. Members of both organ~ations got together and put on skitsthat showed blatant forms of racism. Following each skit, people wrote down their thoughts and afterwards broke into discussion groups. Some examples of racism that were represented in the skits were the s.tereotypes of minority groups causing a curve in the~' grading system and that blacks were ignorant-- not uneducated. Racism dues occur ii1. both directions, by minorities and against minorities. Tbrough our discussion, we were able to come up with some ways of relieving the Union Community of racism. Exposure of minorities is one way of educating the community. BLAS has been taking many steps . in order to accomplish this. They recently just com- pleted the production of 'All God's Chillun' Got Wings'. Interaction of minorities with the re.st of campus educates the community and often resolves learned stereotypes. Programs, such as the one held by BLAS and Ganuna Phi Beta, only aid in re&>lving any racism on campus. Word of the Week DARKNESS Def: What 500 seniors will be in on June 12, 1988. DAMBROSE CLEANERs· t517. Van Vranken Ave 374-5193 ,DRY CLEANING AND TAILORING I ..

CONCOB.DIBNSJS, Ma1 26, 1988 Page 9 ~ ----- -~ -- • ' ' - -. - ' ... • _....,...._ - • - - ' -- • -- - • - - - ..:.. ~------c ~- - • - -- ,. • - ' •• - • / . Today: Is: ·L·atin America Day! As you have hopefully noticed by the time you read this article, today is ~atin America Day on campus. This event cQnsists of .many educational . ·activities all day as well as a benefit :concett tonight. The schedule is as follows.: 11-12 12-2 2:30-3 3-4 4-6 7-12 - Library Plaza .. Andean Music by Atehuelpa Library Plaza - Teach-in on Latin America featuring: Prof. Meade: The Drug Connection, Lat. Am. and the U.S. Rrof. Nichols:· U.S. Foreign Policy in. Latin America Prof. Huggins: Police and Security in Latin America Karen Beatie (from the Social Action Center): Democracy in El Salvador? in front of Carnegie - political theatre in front of Carnegie- Hispanic Union students speak on The Transition-Lat. Am. to. the U.S. Carnegie room 410- slide show with Dan Jones of the Peace and Justice Center: \Getting Acquainted 'with Nicaragua\ - video on Ben Linder Achilles Rink - BENEFIT CONCERT - $2 donations appreciated - The co~cert will feature General Eclectic, the Vestrymen, Falling Staircases, and TheJoneses All proceeds from the concert are going for humanitarian aid for the people of Nicaragua through the Veter~iis ~eace Convoy, a project supported nationwide by many different groups, which is planning to dri:ve truckloads of grain and other food diregtfy to Nicaragua. Latin America .'.Day is being spo_ns.ored independently by~:,the Students' for, Political Awarenes.s and Activistn (SPAA). It is not funded by the Union College Student Forum.- . SP AA is also selling t~hirts, the proceeds from · which are also going to the Peace Convoy. SPAA hopes tqateveryone will~ take advantage of this day to learn about this important region of · · the world, share your views, and enjoy yourself-· • at th~ concert tonight. .©~lMl~ ~~U@~ UNION ·COLLEGE' !l~$3$3 .· ... -' Conc.ert Tonight 7 p.m. to Midnight . FEATURES Another Fun & Successful D·G Olympics By C:A'fHY MARKES It was 1:30 .Friday afternoon. All tbe events were especially fun thlsyear,, both for the teams to attempt and for the sisters to watch. My personal favorite this year was watching the .standard human pyramid race With the added twist of having the uppemost person peel and eat a banana. (Nice going, Jean!') lnthe end, the results were as follows: for Latin ··America And the Oames began ... Delta Gamma gathered on the rugby field, the location of the renoWned annual event ~ the l>.G. Olympics. 200 Union students also gathered, representing the twenty teams which took part in this year's CQmpetition. The common goal of all those present was to celebrate Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, to have a great time and to raise money for blind and vision-impair.ed individuals. Shelly Pino started things off by carrying the Olympic torch. onto the field. Having run for endless IDiles, she still -looked wonderful in her multicolored toga. The games commenced with an exciting round of musical chairs, followed by the illustrious J ello·eating com- petition. As participants anxiously awaited the comine events, Gail Blwnenfield en• tertain.ed the crowd as emcee. First: The Fine Posse Sec()nd: Vodka.Jello Eaters Third: Metal Militia Thanks to all teams who par- . ticipated ... we had a great time and we hope you did, too. Congratulations to all the winners of the rame prizes! You will reCleive your prizes shortly. Overall, the big winner this year was Delta Gamma's Foundation, Sight Consenration and Aid tothe Blind. Over $1,600 was raised at the Olympics, all of which is oontri,buted to D.G.'s philanthropy:. Great job Chrissy Gleeson! · ! Day . The Seoul sponsors of the '88 Olympics Gongratulations to the Orientation Advisors - 1988 Our apologies to the eight OA's who suddenly became Term Abroad Alternate RA's. We did not mean for them to be excluded from the fine list of 1988 Orientation Advisors Edwin M. Adeson Peter R. Amato Benjamin M. Auslander Amy L. Baboff \ Peter T. Belden Diane M. Bruschetti Richard J. Gapriola Todd W. Cocorkis Patrick J. Cunningham Robert A. Danziger :R~l~.q~ .. :Q.e Y ries · Debra M. Dicker Robert J. Donohue Carter H. Edgerton Pamela J. Fiedler Susanne H. Frantangelo Neha J. Gaijar Marnie L. Giambruno Amy B. Goldstein Phi-lip S. Hess Christine E. Hong Arthur B. Hudson Laura Iacoviello Jennifer Izzo Stac~y L. Jabs . Elizabeth A. Josephson Stanley A. JGtzinger Elizabeth W. Landsiedel Michael A. Lenotte Donna L. Lazendorf Lina Leung Perry Scott I:.e:vy Robert M. Lich ten Charles L. McGavern Christine M. Mechler Eric B. Miller Stephen· Millet Brad N. Mondschein Gerald D. Moon ·Leslie S. Morris George P. Motyka Kristin Nelson Ashley M. Oliver Elliot P. Olschwang Leslie A Orner Robin L. Palladino Kristen Peterson Tammy M. Richardson Stacey J. Rosenfield Scott M. RusseU Kristen A._Santos Valerie J. Sarwin Leslie· B. Shapiro Christopher P. Sheridan Elizabeth G. Sorkenn Eric T. Starclt. Peter M. Valerio Wendy A. Vincent Gretchen A. Wirth Mark T, Zimmerman I i ' i i I !/) a: 0 z i z 0 (.) :2 Cf ~ 0 b ::r: c..

AIRBAN.D co·N:TEST SPONSORED BY SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES COMMITTEE If interested, it's not too late,. contact box 1'403 WHEN; Saturday of Camp Union at 1 :4·5 WHERE: :next to the flag pole Win prizes like a pizza party, a v.ermonster from Ben and Jerry's and much. much more!! Did you ever want to show of·f your hard legs ? Well, here's your(!hance .. Smartfood and Social Alternatives Committee are sponsoring. \THE HARDEST LEGS CONTEST\ WHEN: Saturday o.f Camp Unio.n at 3:45 WHERE: next to the flag pole Sign up the day of the event. One 'male and one female at Union College will win 60 bags of Smartfood Popcorn a month for a whole year I! Free 1-shirts :& boxers to those who enter. Free Smartfood popcorn for~all:!! CONCORI)IENSIS, May 26, 1988 . THE PIZZA. PUB ·(·I:N· . W· · .... ····E· .... s· .. , .... ··J•· l , ': ' ' -' .; •· ·,-. ' . -' .. : ' . ' -. . '·. . ... ' . - :· ' ~ ·.: . : :. ·::· . ' . . . · · will· be· open--for :GcJm·p ·u·· •.. ··~ .· , n1o.n~. ·aetw,een 11 ·am a:nd 5 ··pm you can get: - ·cO.LD'.:SODA C0'0·KIES . . ·C:HlPS CANDY· B.ARS POPCORN lJNIONfCOLL.JEGIE SPlE;JlKEl{S JF(I~tOJ1Yl , . . - .. -.--~· ~ \' _ .......... . ._.;.:.~ )Jres;ents STAND uP COMEDY AT ITS BEST JUDY TENUTA and .. Saturday. _C~IJ:l_P . Union Weekend Me·morial··. C.ha.p~el. Price $1 .00 -. .,.1 ,. ,•·· -.i . ' l ; I : 1

l . ' UNIQN COLLI!IGE fl@IBJtJ !10lD tiiMAfr 1 1',t.Ul.\.· n,;,, r~H•\f· -~CfJNCORDlENSIS, Mat 26, 1988 ? CAMP UNION FRIDAY, MAY. 27 . ·ousk, Library Plaza: ·Movie: Cartoons, Animal House, Stri·pes. lj \. t,. e • , , f '. ·.~~ -~~- PIZZA PUB c COLLEGE CENTER ANNOUNCEMENT s·ATURDAY, MAY 28 11:30-6:00, West :Beach: Barbeque, straight serving. 12:00, West Beach: Band: Ee.k-A-Mouse 1. :45, West Wall: Air Band Contest (Prizes Awarded) 2:00, West Beach: Band: Treat Her Right 2:00, West Wall: Ice Sculpture of the Nott 3:45, West Wall: Hard Legs Contest 4:30, West Beach, Band: Let's Active 9:00, Memorial Chapel: comedians Judy Tenuta and Kevin Nealon, presented by Speakers forum . THE NOTT PAY·. ? ·& \\\UOW ., DORM ~ DUE ~~ · 'tru~-o\. • 1101 Union $100 3112~5_!!58 The Co lege Center will close Friday, .....-- . May 27 at 8:00 pm. The buildir.~g will J-;;;...;,._. ~~- \ re.-:op~n on Saturday, May 28 from. l:l----..f.o-1 9:00am .. 12:00 pm. The building will \\-\='--• ; close at 12:00 .pm on Saturday and .~.~..~· re-open Sunday at the usual time. .. . . ·. Let's Active goes on stage at 4:30 on . West Beach this Saturday Mohawk Grocery & Dell .· :wv LET'S ACTIVE EEK·A·MOUSE .TREAT HER RIGHT .. ~~~· ,. : ,ce~~· .. • J':/ · cl CAMP UNION T-SHIRTS GO ON SALE TOMORROW Page 11

.. •• .,. ' Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 --=-------Fountlerl al Union Colle~e 1877 ...,... ____ _..._ ..... Housing Shortage A Problem, Again Many students are angry and disappointed about next year's lack of housing accommodations. As a. result of this year's new housing lottery system that gives sophomores priority for doubles and suites, many upperclass students found themselves forced off campus. Last year, under the old system of upperclass priority, it was the sophomores who found themselves in the same. situation. This year, there was also more competition for the two co-ops. While we could evaluate the Residence Life decisions to change the lottery system, award Smith House on the basis of gradepoint average, or grant the Cultural Unity Center Bronner House individually, we would be avoiding the obvious and main issue. There is not enough housing a~ Union. What is being done about it? In 1985 the Committee on Residence Life was created to examine the housing situation. According to the article \Housing Shortage Confronted,\ that ran ill th~ October 2, 1986 issue of Concordiensis; \it (the committee) was founded in recognition of the failure of the college to provide a sufficient amount of adequate housing. According to the report, Union knows there is a housing problem, btlt they have not acted quickly enough to rectify the situation.\ The report concluded that there was a housing shortage even prior to the college gaining two of its largest freshman classes ever. When does the college plan to deal with the real issue rather than just re-shuffle disgrunded students? No mattet how housing is decided, with the limited amount available, a . significant number of students will ultimately be unaccommodate<l It should not be put off any longer, tlic College must provide more housing to students: by eil.her building new housing--dorms, co-ops or thp apartment complex recommended in the report-- or by utilizing bu.ilding~ it already owns. A Salute to our Seniors As this is the last issue that is published this year. it seems appropriate for Concordiensis ta give its thanks to all those graduating seniors who have worked on the paper. Particular thanks must be given to those members who, despite the temptations of senior spring term, stuck with the paper up to the end. Jim, Jan, and Buddy, your movie reviews will be sorely missed. Thanks for all the work, particularly this term. Gary, International Features would not be what it is without your commitment and 3 a.m. endeavors. Lori, commentaries has earned its centerfold position week after week since you first started last year. Let's hope those who take your place will remember that the headlines go 'noun- predicate.' · To those senior staff members who have made a strong contribution to the paper over the year, we salute you (an~ wonder what inspired you to pound out the articles right up to the end). Hersh and Robe (a.k.a. Andrew Hershaft and Bill Robbins), your restaurant reviews have continuously offered a new dimension to the features section. What we want to know: how many times a week do you eat out? Alex, our official presidential campaign correspondent, the Washington :rost is holding a position open for you on their staff, but they're requesting that you learn how to spell \hemorrhoid' properly before you start. LeAta, you never became a, victim of \Senioritis and it's lucky 'for features you didn't. Conrad,\Chip\and Bert\ have become person~ties on campus due to your comic strips over the past two years. Thanks 'dude'; the personal pages won't be the same. Cara, .thanks for the diligent (and colorful) coverage of this past season's baseball games. Members of the class of 1988 who have neld p<)sitions on the editorial board in the past, but have moved on, need to be thanked also. Marjorie Hoffer (we'll miss you even though you did have a tendency to eat only the crusts off the Tuesday pizzas), Maggie Boitano, Cathy Markes, and Wendy Zimmerman: former features editors; John .Bergeron, Chris Hinkley; Bob Koch. Doug Lloyd, Charlie Slotnick: former sports editors; Lisa Ordower and Jackie Bell: former advertising editors; Dave Gruber and Allan Klapper: former photography editors; and here are some other editors who came and went-but left their impression on the paper: Lisa Katz, Celia Mann, Bob McGowan, and Stewart Sands, and Chris Wright-thanks for your commitment and contributions to Concordiensis. Finally, Concordiensis and its board and staff would like to show our appreciation to Dave and LeeAnn-to whom we are all indebted to for guidance which has extended over the past two years. Your commitment has served as an example to all of us. We wish the both of you, a11d all the other graduating class members, the best of luck in your coming endeavors. LETTERS Gen. Ed. Director Clarifies Facts Dear Editors of Concordiensis: ·Last week's editorial on Gen Ed' exhibited the arrogance that sometimes accompanies ignorance. Here are the facts. The new general education pr()gram owes nothing to any other college. It was developed by this faculty fer this faeulty and for this institution. Most elements of the new program have no parallel elsewhere-but we shoUld not be surprised if others even- tually imitate them. Two maj()r aspects are especially in• novative : 1) the assc;~ciation ()f several courses in history, literature, and civilization, to give students the beginnings of systematic knowledge of a significant segment of th~ Western heritage: ~nd 2) the excellence-enabling ihcentives for the study of foreign languages and foFeign cultures (including non-Western cultures), instead of tbe mediocrity•fostering require- . ments uncritic~Uy adopted elsewl:lere. The . structue ()f the program is by' design an open one, with a • framework ready to ac- commodate . whatever modificatiom wisdom may dictate as Uhlon moves for- ward. Ver:ytruly yours, · Anton Warde Director, Gen Ed Misquotation Distorts Original Meaning T() the Editor: In the recent \Talk of the TCJwn\ section of the Con- cordiensis (May 19) I was in· tentiollally misquoted. Instead of printing my comments pertaining to the N ott Memorial in full, the editors decided to dElete a key word which wasthe basis of my quote .. Wl).at I had said, in reply to the answer: 'rhe Nott Memorial, was \What lo~ks like a giant breast'?\ However, what was printed was \What looks like a giant?\ This comment obviously has a completely different meaning and totally distorts my origi11al thought. This may seem a very trivial matter, but I think that it speaks to ·something much larger: the issue of censorship. Had I said something which was not in keeping with good taste, the editors of Con- cordiensis would have be'en well within their rig~ts to have deleted ~Y quote given the fact that they reserve the right to do so in print. Since my quote, however, wa'S the correct terminol<>gy for the descriptioii of a \body part 1 ' I feel I was denied my constitutional right of free .speecll. Further, becaue ConeotdiellSHI ll::rs been guilty 1>f such censorship in the ·past, I would appr.eci~te it if the editors would clearly define their edit()rial procedur~s in an upcoming issue of the paper. Sincerely, Andrew Collins '91 . . Behavior at Slipknot Performance Seems Immature T<J the Editor: I would like to address this letter to those men who, on Friday afternoon, were pokillg fun of a woman who was dan- ciag while Slipknot was playing. They were making a cruel parody of her movements, cutting her off, and running around her. Not only do I ~ind such behavior immature and pathetic, but cruel, snobby and generally .disgusting. I . was appalled to see Union students act in such degrading fashion to this woman, and was em- barrassed for the rest . of the students at Union. S11ch behavior perpetuates negative stereotypes of Union students by Schenectady residents. I, for one, did finany say something to one of the offenders on Friday. He resJlonded by tur- ning on me tbreateningly and poking fun (){ me until r yelled back at him- r am disappointed that such actions O(!cur by students here at Union and would like t(} e~press my distaste witll tile perpett:ators of these actions. · Disrespectfully 1 - Diane S. Mehta.- Student Praises Dean Alford for Contributions To the Editor: Over the past four years at Union the class of 1988 has seen nlllllerous changes that have transformed the college into something that would not be recognizable to someone casually passing by. We have endured a lack of facilities over half of our stay at Union, though we are fortunate enough to finally be able to utilize the College Center and Alumrti. Gymnasium. The purpose of tllis letter, however, is Mt to eKJ)and upon .past grievances, f~r they are truly part of Union's past. Understandably tllese improvements were made t() enhance Union - no one can deny tbat they haven't. I am writing to congratulate the administrations's selection of Fred Alford, the Assistant Dean ()f Students. . The years of- \Dean Massamola\ have been too easily forgotten. Students viewed this fictitious character with much content and: un- certainty. It was almost im- possible to get a staight answer to.any question and impartiality . :was virtually nonexistEmt. Dean Alford has brought with bim to Union a sense of trust, llonesty, and . openness. Students fears of hidden aces and wild cards quickly disap- ,peared. Dean Alford has ·also · taken an active rcle in the . carilpus conununity. Hed has · l)rganized the Cr0$8 Talk series and is quite visible on campus - trying to get a comfortable feeling for his new suttoun· dings. Most importantly, . though, is his ability ·to com~ ' municate with students and students feeling .that they can work with him. It is a welcome change from years past. Dean Alford has truly earned the respect of this college and I congratulate him· for his con- tributions ill reopening positive dialogue between students and the ad.Init)istration. David L. (;ohen '88

,, Page ·12 CONCORDJENSIS, May 26, 1988 <llnnrnrbirnsis --'--------Founckd a/ Union College 1877 -----· Housing Shortage A Problem, Again Many students are angry and disappointed abol!lt next year's lack of housing accommodations. As a result of this year's new housing lottery system that gives sophomores priority for doubles and suites, many upperclass students found themselves forced off campus. Last year, under the old system of upperclass priority. it was the sophomores who found themselves in the sam~ situation. This year, there was also more competition for the two co-ops. While we could evaluate the Residence Life decisions to change the lottery system, award Smith House on the basis of gradcpoinl average, or grant the Cultural Unity Center Bronner House individuaUy, we would be avoiding the obvious and main issue. There is not enough housing at Union. What is being done about it? In 1985 the Committee on Residcace Life was created to examine the housing situation. According to the article \Housing Shortage C<>nfronted,\ that ran in the October 2, 1986 issue of Conc()rdiensis; \it (the committee) was founded in recognition FJf the failure of the college to provide a sufficient amount of adeql!late housing. According to the report, Union knows there is a housing problem, but they have not acted quickly enough to rectify the situation.\ The report concluded that there was a housing shortage even prior to the college gaining two of its largest freshman classes ever. When does the college plan to deal with the real issue rather than just re-shuffle disgruntled students? No matter how housing is decided, with the limited amount available, a significant number of sutdcnts will ultimately be unaccommodatcd. It should not be put off any longer, the College must provide more housing to student~ by either building new housing--dorms, co-ops or th~ apartment complex recommended in the report-- or by utilizing buildings it already owns. A Salute to our Seniors As this is the last is~ue that is published this year, it seems appropriate for Comcordiensis to give its thanks to all those graduating seniors who have worked on the paper. Particular thanks must be given to those members who, despite the temptations of senior spring term, stuck with the paper up to the end. Jim, Jan, and Buddy, your movie reviews will be sorely missed. Thanks for all the work, particularly this term. Gary, International Features would not be what it is without your commitment and 3 a.m. endeavors. Lori, commentaries has earned its centerfold position week after week since you first started last year. Let's hope those who take your place will remember that the headlines go 'noun- predicate.' To those senior staff members who have made a strong contribution to the paper over the year, we salute you (and wonder what inspired you to pound out the articles right up to the end). Hersh and Robe (a.k.a. Andrew Hershaft and Bill Robbins), your restaurant reviews have continuously offered a new dimension to the features section. What we want to know: how many times a week do you eat out? Alex, our official presidential campaign correspondent, the Washington Post is holding a position open for you on their staff, but they're requesting that you learn how to spell \hemorrhoid' properly before you start. LeAta, you never became a victim of \Scnioritis and it's lucky for features you didn't. Conrad,\Chip\and Bert\ have become personalities on campus due to your comic strips over the past two years. Thanks 'dude'; the personal pages won't be the same. Cara, thanks for the diligent (and C()lorful) coverage of this past season's baseball games. Members of the class of 1988 who have held positions on the editorial board in the past, but have moved on, need to be thanked also. Marjorie Hoffer (we'll miss you even though you did have a tendency to eat only the crusts off the Tuesday pizzas), Maggie Boitano, Cathy Markes, and Wendy Zimmerman: former features editors; John Bergeron, Chris Hinkley, Bob Koch. Doug Lloyd, Charlie Slotnick: former sports editors; Lisa Ordower and Jackie Bell: former advertising editors; Dave Gruber and Allan Klapper: former photography editors; and here are some other editors who came and went-but left their impression on the paper: Lisa Katz, Celia Manll. Bob Me Go wan, and Stewart Sands. and Chris Wright-thanlcs for your commitment and contributions to Concordien.sis. Finally, Co11cordiensis and its board and staff would like to show our appreciation to Dave and LeeAnn-to whom we are all indebted Lo for guidance which has extended over the past two years. Your commitment has served as an example to aU of us. We wish the both of you, and all the other graduating class members, the best of luck in your coming endeavors. LETTERS Gen. Ed. Director Clarifies Facts Dear Editors 0f Concordiensis: Last week's editorial on Gen. Ed exhibited the arrogance that sometimes accompanies ignorance. Here are the facts. The new general education program owes nothing to any other college. It was developed by this faculty for this faculty and for this institution. Most elements of the new program have no parallel elsewhere-but we should not be surprised if others even- tually imitate them. Two major aspects are especially in- novative: 1) the association of several courses in history, literature, and civilization, to give students the beginnings of systematic knowledge of a significant segment of the Western heritage; and 2) the excellence-enabling incentives for the study of foreign languages and foreign cultures (including non-Western cultures), instead of the mediocrity-fostering require· ments uncritically adopted elsewhere. The structure of the prcgram is by- design an open 9ne, with a framewerk ready t() ac- commodate whatever modifications wisdom nay dictate as Union moves for- ward. Very truly yours, Anton Warde Director, Gen Ed Misquotation Distorts Original Meaning To the Editor: In the recent \Talk of the Town\ section of the Con- cordiensis (May 19) I was in- tentionally misquoted. Instead of printing my comments pertaining to the Nott Memorial in full, the editors decided to delete a key word which was the basis of my quote. What I had said, in reply to the answer: The Nott Memorial, was \What looks like a giant breast'?\ However, what was printed was \What looks like a giant?\ This comment obviausly has a completely different meaning and tota1ly distorts my original thought. This may seem a very trivial matter, but I think that it speaks to ·something much larger: the issue of censorship. Had I said something which was not in keeping with good taste, the editors of Con- cordiensis would have been well within their rights to have deleted my quote given the fact that they reserve the right to do so in print. Stnce my quote, however, was the correct terminology for the description of a \body part\ I feel I was denied my constitutional right of free speech. Further, becaue Concordiensis has been guilty of such censorship in the past, I would appreciate it if the editors would clearly define their editorial procedures in an upcoming issue of the paper. Sincerely, Andrew Collins '91 Behavior at Slipknot Performance Seems Immature To the Editor: I would like to address this letter to these men who, on Friday afternoon, were poking fun of a woman who was dan- cing while Slipknot was playing. They were making a cruel parody of her movements, cutting her off, and running around her. N0t only do I find such behavior immature and pathetic, but cruel, snobby and generally disgusting. I was appalled to see Union students act in such degrading fashion to this woman, and was em- barrassed for the rest of the students at Union. Such behavior perpetuates negative stereotypes of Union students by Schenectady residents. I, for one, did finally say something to one of the offenders on Friday. He responded by tur- ning on me threateningly and poking fun of me mtil I yelled back at him. I am disappointed that such actions occur by students here at Unim and would like to express my distaste with the perpet;ators of these actions. · Disrespectfully, Diane S. Mehta Student Praises Dean Alford for Contributions To the Editor: Over the past four years at Union the class of 1988 has seen numerous changes that have transformed the college into something that would not be recognizable to someone casually passing by. We have endured a lack of facilities over half of our stay at Union, though we are fortunate enough to finally be able to utilize the College Center and Alumni Gymnasiwn. The purpose of this letter, however, is not to expand upon past grievances, for they are truly part of Union's past. Understandably these improvements were made to enhance Union- no one can deny that ~hey haven't. I am writing to congratulate the administrations's selection of Fred Alford, the Assistant Dean of Students. The years of \Dean Massamola\ have been too easily forgotten. Students viewed this fictitious character with much content and' un- certainty. It was almost im- possible to get a staight answer to any question and impartiality was virtually nonexistent. Dean Alford has brought with him to Union a sense of trust, honesty, and openness. Students fears of hidden aces and wild cards quickly disap- peared. Dean Alford has also taken an active role in the campus community. Hed has organized the Cross Talk series and is quite visible on campus - trying to get a comfortable feeling for his new surroun- dings. Most importantly, though, is his ability to com- municate with students and students feeling that they can work with him. It is a welcome change from years past. Dean Alford has truly earned the respect of this college and I congratulate him for his con- the administration. tributions in reopening positive dialogue between students and David L. Cohen '88 Editor.· ,<.-·\ -·- .. - ·• · ... ·· .•.••..... ·-. . . · · :futemational F~tiite$ Edirors · N' ¢tlfagJl6(J~Airit~ S'-· :ott· ~Plllll'ElJ!itlr ' ' ~= AssociateC<immen.taty Page Editor . . Oelttt.B• Sonig Kane Boyd, Jan Ooldste,in,.,Iim MneL.aq.~ An1thot1y Vro.sis

CONCQRDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 Page 13 LETTERS A Visit to Noinu Housing Problem Persists To the Edtior: the available residences. The greying elder~ leaned on their To the Editol.\': canes and watclled with great Doubtless the adverse signs of sadness. When all of · publicity for the Residence Life their hopes Were shattered, they Office contained in this Con~ gathered their belongings and cordiensis is quite substantial grouped tQgetner to make the enough without this let1;er, but I journey into F ofo, 'Spurnas' s feel I mnst:contribute to it. chaotic world. Prior to the lottery, a friend of Before . they departed, . mine, a Freshman at Union this however, they dispatched a year, was forced to ~pply to representative. to request an Union as a transfer student .for audience with Nade Dowo. This neu yeaf, tor purely This was gracioiLSly .given, and bureaucratic reasons~ Dean the represen-tative was Wood in Residence Life saw fit providedwiththeanswers to an to s~ubbornly exclude him from q.Uestions save one-- · why the lottery, ~lthough he is going weren't these problems ad- home to England this slimmer, clressed in the. domicile crisis? and it is thliS that much more Nade Dow<J, assured the difficult for him to obtain off- representative that a special campus housing. At the ,time it task force from the Cabinet was assumed that all the class would look into the situation. of '91. would receive on-campus The represe11tative l-eft the housing, and D~an Wood's offices of Nade Dowo; aiJ.d ~m an unusual reluctance to treat him impulse, h~aded f()r the im- . as · an ordinary Freshman . perial Cabinet bull ding. This (which, for all intents and courageous elcier cfi'cumvented purposes, he is), was. only every infallible security overcome after intervention measure, and clin.lbed to a from Dean Mammola, .. sup- window fQr one peek into tile posedly leading to Dean wood great Cabinet -chambers. He gaining a better appreciation of glimpsed some Cabinet mem- my friend's circumstances .. bers riding bicycles. around the Enough has already been said chambers. Others seemed to be about the . . clearly working at making a difficult decj.sion by by tossing a dart at discriminatory and arbitrary the \Living Expenses\ board decision macle by Residence which had tbree circles-- Life to award Smith aouse next \High\, \Higher\, and · year to those students with the \Impossible to .Afford\ as the highest GP .As, f:iut I too, 'bullseye. And still other Cabinet register my ()pposition. b 1 · · The • format of the lottery :mem. ers · were s eepmg · · itself • was' changed from soundly. In t]le center of a table previoils years, With the result was an aged bellow memo · title.d, \Shelter Shortage-- . being that it provides_ less on- Meeting Postponed Until· Year ca~pus hOousing overall. The reasQn is that many class of r~l Greeks, effectively guaranteed on•campus housing, opted not to move into their fraternity or sorority houses, so providing less on .. campus .housing for everyane else. In addition, the classes of '89 and '90 lose out in terms of housing for all their years as Union upperclassmen. Another apparently poor bit of judgment by Residence Life concerns the $10 fine levied on people who did not have their lottery cards with them, whether they had forgotten them or failed to pick thein up. The official taking down which people were rooming together had a list of lottery numbers in frl)nt of him, and when the person without their lottery card had their I.D., it. seems impossible to understand why a fine should be levied since no delay was involved. Par- ticularly in the cases where the number was not actually being used, the fine seems to be. just another example of Residence _ Life's inflexibility and unreasonableness. After the lottery·, a friend .of mine and his roommate wanted to make a total switch of rooms with two other people, in which each pair would simply occupy the other pair's room. When this was proposed to Dean Wood, he collld only say that it was completely impossible, because it was College policy not to allow this sort of thing. I can see how pennitting :changes of roominate would leave the lottery system open to abuse, but I cannot see how abuse could occur where such ~com­ plete ... room switches are in- volved. To be fair to Dean Wood, be was too busy to ex- plain .to me why this should be policy, but any argument in- volving the Residence Hall Contracts that we signed is invalid, because the room- numbers were written on after we signed them. Essentially, this is an opportunity for four people to be happier with their accommodations without detriment to anyone, yet Residence Life is unwilling. To keep room-changes under control, it would seem reasonable to set a deadline by which time changes must be made, a maximum number of changes per person ( (pres'UIIlably one), and to impose a modest fine on people wanting to do this. Banning room-changes outright seems to be just another example of poor decision-making in the Residence Life Office. Residence life is in dire need of some good publicity at the moment, and it seems tliat making the concessions outlined above would represent an act of good-will, so that the large majority of Union students might be able to escape the conclusion that Residence Life is shamelessly manipulative and inflexible. Yours Sincerely, Christopher D. Horn '89 Onceuponatime, there was a ,kingd()m called Noinu, ruled by King Sirrom. Sirtom had many adviS()rs and a tremendous and valuable Cabinet which con,. vened -~very day behipd Closed doors.E:very et{ening., these doors would open, and the weary members would trudge home, grumbling about .how their salarie.s were disp..-o:protionate to the nwnber of services they rendered. Now, there· was an assistant to the Cabinet named Nade Dowo who was.in charge of immigration to Kingdom.Noinu. Inthe Year of the Thundercloud;. the ad .. missions offices of the Cabinet accepted far too many · im- ,migrants than there was room in Noinu. However~ th~se im .. migrants We:te guaranteed shelters and nineteen meals a week. the .disorganization o{ the kingdom caused an uproar, and many ·of tbe younger citizens were forced to emigrate to the wilderness of Fofo Sup- mac.. The prospects were hopeful that the same. mistake would not be ·made again, and existing shelter problem would be rectified by tlle , great Cabinet. In adilition to ttml crises, the cost of living was inflated to an inordinate amount. Many citizens .could not :comprehend why· the Cabiltet's treasl.ir~r did not charuiel fundS to the establish- ment . of more humble domiciles. But everyone knows that a peasant citizen has no true intelligence except com- mon· sens~ and the Cabinet loathed to be considered anythingbut elite. Hence, there was a decree for the disap- pearance of common se~se of Nothing Better T-o Do.\ · __ ,__. ____ -:--..___;......,.... ______________ ...,.... ______ ...,.. sli:;d ~:::~=:~ b~~~~ Play· Inspires Fight Against Prejudice he had- witnessed. He walked quickly, reaching the grand two hundred room palace of King Sirrom and his wife. As the sun set behind the ·castle; the representative saw the king and his wife walk: into their spacious home from the gardens, hand in hand. As the king and queen settled into a restful sleep that night, the, hopes and prayers of the wondering elders who slept under the open .sky, went with from all decisions. ' Time passed;, and the Cabinet continued to meet and even~ tually, a ''solution'' was devised- provide the younger citizens with shelters before the -re\$pected- and meritoriou$ elders. There were many disgruntled elders, yet the situation did not explode until the time of shelter distribution. In the Year of the Power FailiJl'es,. the . younger citizens rushed to devour abnost all. of them. UNION COLLEGE \ . . ' •' Idna Grebdlog Concor4yvs. WRUC SOFTBALL GAME TODAY Library Plaza· 4:30 All proceeds . go to Charity .. To the Edit()r: Who am I1 I am the kind of person wh() will sit back and watch the world until I know where I belong and how I feel. · Once I've seen enough to establish my own opiilion, I'm not afraid to tell the- world how I feel, and to act on those feelings. When I first came to · Union, I looked around to try to find that one place where I would belong. This was not an easy task, in fact I realize now that no one belongs in just one place On Saturday night; I went to see the Mountebanks/BLAS pr()duction. of Eugene O'Neill'li! All God's Cbillun Got Wings, I went knowing that it would be a serious play, but I never knew I could learn so much, and enjoy myself at the same time. This is not meant to be a review o( the play, but rather a platform for me to express my feelings about the way we all ~ake judgments · about sometbing or someone we do not know, simply because it or they are different. O'Neill wrote about an inter- racial marriage: a black* man married to a white woman. They loved each other, but their marriage could not succeed because soeiety poisoned tbeir minds and mentally ~tapped them in a . room whose walls kept moving in on them, inhibiting their space and growth, eventually driving them crazy. Society seems to divide the world into Blacks and Whites, Jews and Christians, brains and jocks, males and females, rich and poor etcetera. For every group of people who exist, there is a group that is \different.\ These differences are just on the surface, but they inhibit most of us from sear- ching within a different \group\ to find a person who shares our ideals. Prejudice has changed over the years. Most Americans today do not feel that the blacks should be slaves, and the Jews should be persecuted. We seem to be able to coexi'3t, as long as we don't :mix. This may be a step in the right direction, but it is far from ideal. I watched All God's Chillun, and saw my hometown, where the Jews were separated from the Christians, and the rich were separated from the poor. All my life, I was aware of the divisions, unsure of where I belonged, then when I thought I found a person I could really trust, I became her friend. We were friends even though society said we shouldn't be. We came from two different worlds, brought together because we had many of the same likes and dislikes. We were like the couple in AU God's Chillun because we knew we were different on the outside, but best friends on the. inside. As time went on, we had to face unnecessary problems brought on by society. Neither of us felt completely comfortable with the other's friends, or family. These problems slowly began to seep into our relationshjp, and after three years, the best had ahnost been destroyed. I've sat and watched the world destroy a great friend- ship, separating two people who were so similar inside, but different outside. I'm no longer going to be a spectator to prejudice. I'm going to fight for what I believe in, because I came to college to find out who I am. I cannot achieve this if I limit my friends to those who look like me. If I don't find out who I am, I will never fully achieve my other goals and dreams. I hope we can all enrich our Union. College education by stepping beyond society's lines and making friends with people for their insides, not their outsides. Sincerely, Barbara J-ensen '91 The Following Tw.o Exams Were Omitte~ From the Final Exam Schedule Due to Late Submi.ssion .' MONDAY, JUNE 6-8:30-10:30_ AM SOC 157-Work, Occupations and The Professions-D. Walczak- SSCI 014 . TUESDAY, JUNE 7-2:00-4:00 PM SOC 10-1-Introduction to ~ociology-D. Walczak- .. HUMN 115

CONCORDJENSIS, May 26, 1988 Page 13 A Visit to Noinu To the Edtior: Once upon a time, there was a kingdom called Noinu, ruled by King Sirrom. Sirrom had many advisors and a tremendous and valuable Cabinet which con- vened every day behind closed doors.Every evening, these doors would open, and the weary members would trudge home, grumbling about how their salaries were disproprotionate to the number of services they rendered. Now, there was an assistant to the Cabinet named Nade Dowo who was in charge of immigration to Kingdom Noinu. In the Year of the Thundercloud, the ad- missions offices of the Cabinet accepted far too many im- migrants than there was room in Noinu. However, these im- migrants were guaranteed shelters and nineteen meals a week. The disorganization of the kingdom caused an uproar, and many of the younger citizens were forced to emigrate to the wilderness of Fofo Sup- mac. The prospects were hopeful that the same mistake would not be made again, and existing shelter problem would be rectified by the , great Cabinet. In addition to this crises, the cost of living was inflated to an inordinate amount. Many citizens could not comprehend why the Cabinet's treasurer did not channel funds to the establish- ment of more humble domiciles. But everyone knows that a peasant citizen has no true intelligence except com- mon sense- and the Cabinet loathed to be considered anything but elite. Hence, there was a decree for the disap- pearance of conunon sense from all decisions. Time passed, and the Cabinet continued to meet and even- tually, a \solution\ was devised- provide the younger citizens with shelters before the respected and meritorious elders. There were many disgruntled elders, yet the situation did not explode until the time ·of shelter distribution. In the Year of the Power Failures, the younger citizens rushed to devour almost all of the available residences. The greying elders leaned on their canes and watched with great sighs of sadness. When all of their hopes were shattered, they gathered their belongings and grouped together to make the journey into Fofo Spwnas's chaotic world. Before they departed, however, they dispatched a representative to request an audience with Nade Dowo. This This was graciously given, and the representative was provided with the answers to all questions save one-- Why weren't these problems ad- dressed in the domicile crisis? Nade Dowo assured the representative that a special task force from the Cabinet would look into the situation. The representative left the offices of Nade Dowo, and on an impulse, headed for the im- perial Cabinet building. This courageous elder circumvented every infallible security measure, and climbed to a window for one peek into the great Cabinet chambers. He glimpsed some Cabinet mem- bers riding bicycles around the chambers. Others seemed to be working at making a difficult decision by by tossing a dart at the \Living Expenses\ board which had three circles-- \High\, \Higher\, and \Impossible to Afford\ as the bullseye. And still other Cabinet members were sleeping soundly. In the center of a table was an aged bellow memo titled, \Shelter Shortage-- Meeting Postponed Until Year of Nothing Better To Do.\ The representative quietly slipped away, stunned by what he had witnessed. He walked quickly, reaching the grand two hundred room palace of King Sirrom and his wife. As the sun set behind the castle, the representative saw the king and his wife walk into their spacious home from the gardens, hand in hand. As the king and queen settled into a restful sleep that night, the hopes and prayers of the wondering elders who slept under the open sky, went with them. IdnaGrebdlog UNION COLLEGE Concordy vs. WRUC SOFTBALL GAME TODAY Library Plaza 4:30 All proceeds go to Charity LETTERS Housing Problem Persists To the Editor: Doubtless the adverse publicity for the Residence Life Office contained in this Con- cordiensis is quite substantial enough without this letter, but I feel I must contribute to it. Prier to the lettery, a friend.of mine, a Freshman at Union this year, was forced to apply to Union as a transfer student for next year, for .purely bureaucratic reasons. Dean Wood in Residence Life saw fit to stubbornly exclude him from the lottery, although he is going home to England this summer, and it is thus that much more difficult for him to obtain off- campus housing. At the time it was assumed that aU the class of '91 would receive on-campus housing, and D~an Wood's unusual reluctance to treat him as an ordinary Freshman (which, for all in.tents and purposes, he is), was only overcome after intervention from Dean Mammola, sup- posedly leading to Dean Wood gaining a better appreciation of my friend's circumstances. Enough has already been said about the dearly discriminatory and arbitrary decision made by Residence Life to award Smith House next year to those students with the highest GPAs, but 1 too, register my opposition. The format of the lottery itself • was changed from previoUs years, with the result being that it provides less on- campus housing overall. The reason is that many class of '91 Greeks, effectively guaranteed on-campus fuousing, opted not to move into their fraternity or sorority houses, so providing less en-campus houstng for everyone else. In additien, the classes ef '89 and '90 lose out in terms of housing for all their years as Union upperclassmen. Another apparently poor bit of judgment by Residence Life concerns the $10 fine levied on people who did not have their lottery cards with them, whether they had. forgotten them or failed to pick them up. The official taking down which people were rooming together had a list of lettery numbers in front of him, and when the person without their lottery card had their l.D., it seems impossible to understand why a fine should be levied since no delay was involved. Par- ticularly in the cases where the number was not actually being used, the fine seems to be just another example of Residence Life's inflexibility and unreasonableness. After the lottery, a friend of mine and his roommate wanted to make a total switch of rooms with two other people, in which each pair would simply occupy the other pair's room. When this was proposed to Dean Wood, he could only say that it was completely impossible, because it was College policy not to allow this sort of thing. I can see how permitting changes of roommate would leave the lottery system open to abuse, but I cannot see how abuse could occur where such '(!,com- plete.;room switches are in- volved. To be fair to Dean Wood, he was too busy to ex- plain to me why this should be policy, bll.t any argument in· volving the Residence Hall Contracts that we signed is invalid, because the room.· numbers were written on after we signed them. Essentially, this is an opportunity for fmu people to be happier with their accommodations without detriment to anyone, yet Residence Life is unwilli:ng. To keep room-cha:nges under control, it would seem reasonable to set a deadline by which time changes must b€ made, a maximum number ()f changes per person ( (presumably ene ), and to impose a modest fine on people wanting to do this. Banning roorn.-changes outright seems te be just another example of po()r decision-making in the Residence Life Office. Residence life is in dire need of some good publicity at the moment, and it seems that making the concessions outlined above would represent an act of gaod-will, so that tile large majority of Unbn students might be able to escape the conclusion tllat Residence Life is shamelessly manipulative and inflexible. Yours Sincerely, Christopher D. Horn '89 Play Inspires Fight Against Prejudice To the Editor: Who am I? I am the ldnd of person who will sit back and watch the world until I know where I belong and how I feel. · Once I've seen enough to establish my own opinion, I'm not afraid to tell the world how I feel, and to act on those feelings. When I first came to Union, I looked around to try to find that one place where I would belong. This was not an easy task, in fact I realize now that no one belongs in just one place On Saturday night, I went to see the Mountebanks/BLAS production of Eugene O'Neill's All God's Chillun Got Wings. I went knowing that it would be a serious play, but I never knew I could learn so much, and enjoy myself at the same time. This is not meant to be a review o~ the play, but rather a platform for me to express my feelings about the way we all make judgments about something or someone we do not know, simply because it or they are different. O'Neill wrote about an inter- racial marriage: a black• man married to a white woman. They loved each other, but their marriage could not succeed because society poisoned their minds and mentally trapped them in a room whose walls kept moving in on them, inhibiting their space and growth, eventually driving them crazy. Society seems to divide the world into Blacks and Whites, Jews and Christians, brains and jocks, males and females, rich and poor etcetera. For every group of people who exist there is a group that is \diff~rent.\ These differences are just on the surface, but they inhibit most of us from sear- ching within a different \group\ to find a person who shares our ideals. Prejudice has changed over the years. Most Americans today do not feel that the blacks should be slaves, and the Jews should be persecuted. We seem to be able to coexi3t, as Long as we don't mix. This may be a step in the right clirection, but it is far from ideal. I watched All God's Chillun, and saw my hometown, where the Jews were separated from the Christians, and the rich were separated from the poor. All my life, I was aware of the divisions, unsure of where I belonged, then when I thought I found a person I could really trust, I became her friend. We were friends even though society said we shouldn't be. We came from two different worlds, brought together because we had many of the same likes and dislikes. We were like the couple in All God's Chillun because we knew we were different on the outside, but best friends on the inside. As time went on, we had to face unnecessary problems brought on by society. Neither of us felt completely comfortable with the other's friends, or family. These problems slowly began to seep into our relationship, and after three years, the best had aln1.ost been destroyed. I've sat and watched the world destroy a great friend- ship, separating two people who were so similar inside, but different outside. I'm no longer going to be a spectator to prejudice. I'm going to fight for what I believe in, because I carne to college to find out who I am. I cannot achieve this if I limit my friends to those who look like me. If I don't find out who I am, I will never fully achieve my other goals and dreams. I hope we can all enrich our Union College education by stepping beyond society's lines and making friends with people for their insides, not their outsides. Sincerely, Barbara Jensen '91 The Following Two Exams Were Omitte~ From the Final Exam Schedule Due to late Submission .' MONDAY, JUNE 6-8:30-10:30 AM SOC 157-Work, Occupations and The Professions-D. Walczak- SSCI 014 TUESDAY, JUNE 7-2:00-4:00 PM SOC 10-1-Introduction to Sociology-D. Walczak-. HUMN 115

. Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, May 26, 1988 .LETTERS. Offensive T -shirt Roaming Campus To the Editor: I was recently walking amund downtown when I noticed a woman wearing an unusual T-shirt. On the front was a picture of the Nott Memorial with a big red \X\ ~hrough it, and on the back it said \Slaughter A Snot\ in big garnet letters. Assuming \snot\meant a Union student, 1 felt a little uneasy knowing that some woman I never met considered me a sel( •centered, eg()tistic.al jerk. I quickly forgot tbe incident and continued my walk into one of the downtown shcps. . That same uneasy feeling came over me again when I saw the store clerk wearing the . same shirt. Chances are the clerk didn't kn.ow I was a Union student, but -what if he did? Wouldhe be rude to me? Would he refuse to assist me? Would he harass me? 'lbese are the only assumptions I could make from the attitude portrayed by his shirt. · After several encounters with people wearing that shirt, I came across the merchant who was selling them. Trying to hide my student identity, I asked her about them. \Aren't they hip?\ she said. Asking· her if she really felt that way about Union students, she said no. \Actually I'm seeing some. guy from Union. I just think it's a cool shirt design. You know, there are a couple snotty people at Union ... \ Of course, this is not true. I just made it up. However, the storyline .parallels the selling of a newT-shirt on campus. On the front of this new, shirt is a picture of Bloom County's BUl the Cat, wearing a GE baseball cap. On the back, in oversized, George Michael style letters is the phrase, \Avoid the Doid,\ a phrase taken from a popular Dominoes Pizza ad campaign. When I approached the person who made shirt, h-she said, ''Well, it's not directed at you, af course.\ If not me, then to whom is the shirt directed at and what are the people wearing these shirts saying to people like me? If you haven't guessed, I am from Schenectady, as are many other Union students. This makes us \.Ooids\ (short for \Schenectoid l believe) which is a nickname for locals or townies. Many colleges have nicknames for locals, usually having a negative connotation. For exampe, RPI students frequently refer to Troy resid~nts as \Troy-lets\ (do you get it?) These nicknames andthe people they refer to ar:,e the brunt of several campus jokes and are even used in normal conversation. I Wonder, however, if a Union student is aware of the .group of people he- sheistagging.when they use the term \Doid\? Due to · its frequent use, \Doid\ cannot simply refer to the unusual and undesirable characters that roam the streets of Schenectady. \Doid\ must be opened up to include everybody who resides and or works m :)chenectady: mer- chants, meat cutters, dock .. workers; doctors, cooks, city and State o·fficials, pizza makers, professors, Union students, Union graduates, and so forth. In other words, an enti:re community (and a relatively prosperous one at that) must wear a garnet ''Doid\ emblem on their forehead. Name calling can cause damage. I am not sure if people actually take a seriQus offense to beirig called \Doid\ (I don't), but a sensitive person could be hurt by a Union student wearing the \AVOID THE DOID\ T- sbirt. This shirt can be tr~­ slated into saying, \Hey .. Scllenectoid, I want nothing to do with you.\ Ouch[ Suppose the scenario presented in the beginning of this letter was true? How many students would patronize businesses downtown that expressed such a violent hatred for Union students? Not many. Schenectady is just as. dependent on Union students as Union students are dependent ()n Schenectady. It is a mutually beneficial relationship. Think of aJl tbe hatred and bigotry • e:x- p;ressed in other nickname~, 'cGeek'', \queer\, ''Dyke'', 'cJap'', \nigger'·' \yuppie'' 15 commien are all names frequently used that have ·the al>iUty to hurt · som,eone. ·Granted , everyone is· different, ·and some people may have ·characteristics that are not appealmg tc others, but they are still human ·beings, com- plete with emotions and 'feelings, two very delicate features. No one has the right to put another person down Sil'nply l>ecause they are different. Several instiutitions - are ·making concerted efforts to demote the use of name call~g. For example, many ()rganizations have been 'Working to increase the awareness and damage caused by JAP-bashing (see Newsweek May 23, 1988, p~ 79}. Closer to llome, our vel.\y own campus xadio station, one of the only forms.of campus media to reach off ..campus for blds th'e use of \Doid'' over the air for fear of offending off-campus listeners. I would like to make it clear that I am not condemning the \AVOID TaE DOID\ t-shirt, nor the individuals who made and-or wear them. They are a rather clever Shirt, and one of the best designed shirtS on sale this spring. I just want to make those individuals aware that the slog~ \Avoid The Doid\ is offensive. I doubt that any student on this campus wishes to totally avQid Schenectady residents; that would mean avoiding many professors, avoiding the College Center employees, avoOiding several of the deans of thiS school, and avoiding many friends. Keep in mind, however, that wearing this T-shirt says exactly that you want nothing to do with .Schenectady residents. If you still decide to purchase and wear this T·shirt, I would advise yo~ not wear it into town; most \Ooids\ know they are \Ooids\. Respectfully, Bill Boyd '90 ATTENTION STUDENTS: Thank your for your overwhelming response to the PARENT'S WEEKEND BRUNCH! • Below is a convenient schedule for the rest of the term. May 28th May 29th Camp Union. All Units Closed. Both West College & UCDH Open ·for Brunch and Dinner June 4 &5 Both West College & UCDH will be ·open for Brunch and Dinner ·. Q' ·dA' S~udent Poses ·. s an .. s To the Editor: Hey, .did you know that you contract- ll()ne of which were applicable. In exasperation, she told-metotmJ(to Dean Wood. At that time l did not. If be wanted to, he could have ~poken With me. The 'burden of defense should nQt be placed. on me. . . can tell the day of the week ·from the lettuce at the salad bar? Honestly. On Tuescla.ys the salad is fresh. On Wednesdays it soaks in four inches of water, . and the .subsequent days the salad. is in various prpgressive · stages of wilting and dymg. Did you ever wonder why the toilet paper is locked up? Oh, · sure, thetoUet paper can still be removed by pulling dcnvn hard one side and then the other., but wrless you do that you can only get out one sheet at· a time. · Later, I found out that Sharon Anderson l}as cable. H;ow deligbtfullyhypocriticaH A$ far as R@sidence life lmows up until reacling this letter, I donlt have cable.. The great thing is that as iar as 1 ·know, they have not changed the leases $0 everyone :next year can ·have cable. . . . Daes anyone else wonder why · you can only get noodles with the ''meat\ and rice with the shrimp? If all of our meals are ah·eady . paid for, why -can't the meal • cards be transferable? · · Why is the drain the highest point 'in the shower floor? Oh,. here's one few people .. know- did you know that you can get cable television in your room? I sent a copy of the housing contract to a lawyer in White Plains who told me that be saw nothing that would prohibit a student from getting cable (provided · no room alteration is involved). Fur- . thermore, if Residence Ut:e tries to take it away from ,they are in breach of contract and subject to litigation. This brings me to an amusing little anec- dote about Residence Life's deceit., hypocrisy, and ultimate incompetence. When Residence Life first found out that J had cable I was calle~ by area coordinator Sharon Anderson who asked me if I had cable TV. I told her I did and the picture was great and was tempted to thank her for her interest in my well .. being. She told me that I was not allowed to have cable. I told her that was not true as I had read the housing contract. She told me she woUld get back to me after she spoke with Dean Wood about this new revalation, but that NO action would be taken until she got back to me. The following day I got a call from Schenectady Cable telling me they had gotten a phone call . from the Dean and that they were coming to disconnect my cable TV that very day. I told them not to and they didn't. I couldfiave left it at that and had cable for the rest of the year with Residence Life confident that they had succeeded jn preventing another student from getting cable. However, on my own initiative, I spoke with Sharon Anderson the next day since I was somewhat sickened by the fact that her·attitude of getting back TO me was in fact getting back AT me.· She was extremely cordial and listened to my reasons why I co11ld have cable and she went off With a long list of her own reasons why I co.uld not-which ranged from aesthetics to some things in the In aU faime~ to Dean Wood, .he is always niore than Willing totalk to studentsthat make an appc,>intmentwithhim. I did just that and he agreed that thete were pr.oblems with ·the maintenance system, but made no promises for cbanges so I wouldn't bold my breath. He tried to hide 'behind the housmg contract when l told him that floor fines should be abolished {I stated the ·reason wpy in a previous letter to t11e editor, so suffice it. to say they involve presumption of guild and denial of due processes). He seemed not to care 'When I told him that I bad been advised by. several attorneys to go to the American Civil Liberties Union which, in fact, iS what I have done. I mailed them a: letter about a week and a half ago. While I prefer to make changes throUgh the system, I feel I have exhausted all reasonable measures and it will be nice to see administration having to answer .to someone for their actions. Ever wonder why the campus phones are placed inside the dorms instead of outside .where people collld can their friends to let them in inste~d of having to resort to;smasbingin the doors? Does anyone really believe that the SATs were dropped to promote diversity among the student population? Ifthis is so, why were the scores decreasing up until they were dropped? Did you know that the op- position to the new housing system is because \there always is resistance to new systems~' and not that only half the student body can have on· campus housing? . Did YIJU know the bathrooms in West and Richmond will never be renovated because they, like the Nott Memorial, are historic landmarks? Did yiJu ever wonder why the housing lease prohibits hand- cuffs? Did you ever wonder who Lina is and why she needs fif· teen. personals every week? Well, certainly one could find more imponderableS, questions, and facts about Union, but this .task will simply have to be left to the remaining classes. Cevin Soling Class of 1983 Look for Distordie·.nsis ·Next Week!

CONCQRDIENSIS, May 26 1 19/l8 Page 15 - • ---- --------,---• •--~--' --=-~ ~ ·~ •-- ~ - c- • ~-- - -~~-t• ~ • ...-- - • • - ~...,_ ,_.' ., ,. • SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Pumpin'g.Health to Third World Countries »y KEV~GARDNER · On May 1.0, 1979 a DC..10 crashed while taking ~ff from O'Hare air.port .. in Chicago, . All two htmdred ~eventy five -people aboard were killed. All DC-lO's wer.e grounded at great expense to the airlines; and worldWide media coverage occtttred for weeks. During that sattl.e hour; six times that many . people .died in third would countries because .of· diarrhea. Diarrhea alone kills between 10 :and 20 million peQple every year, most ·Of which are children under· five years old. The reason -is dirty water. washing clothes in con- taminated:water. Waterborne diseases claim ·the largest number of lives in third wot!Ld countries• These include typhoid, cholera, dysentery, hepatitis, the guinea worm, lllld various forms ·of diarrhea. Diarrhea kills bet- ween 10 and 20 million people annu,ally. The. guinea worm infects 10 to 48 million people annually. A ·COnSultant to the World ~ank writes, \guinilea worm is . the example par ex- cellence of a disease for which tranSmission can be totally interrupted by pr~ntision of safe drinking water supplies.\ · Water.oCQntact diseases ~­ elude Scbistosomiasis (another thousands of those handpumps can save hundreds of thousands .of lives. ~Y seaUng the now open . well~ and installing handpU1Ilps, the reliance on contaminated surface water and on. contaminated open well water can ibe eliminated. In addition,. the tune now spent carrying water, for which eight hours a day is not uncommon, can be used towards more producti:v:e ends .. The decrease . in sicigtesses will also increase producti\ity by decueasing the time that people are unabl~ to .. · work, and by decreatsng · medical expenses. For . the · majority of · our world, elaborate and expensive technology is not n~eded to drastically improve the quality of life. r trom What's So Funny About Sclence, cartoons ·by Sidney Harris WorldWide, approxilp.ately eig~t. percent of all sic19lesses can be attribUited to inadequate. water supply, which includes water for drinking .. ;;md .. for sanitation. The problem is. that the water used comes from either. open· wells or streams. This water :j.s .easily polluted :by people's hands touching the well buckett and by feces, both from people and aniinals, that may get into streams. Tl)ere are two basic types of diseases that stem from this· pollution: waterborne diseases, gotten by drinking contaminated wate~, and water -contact diseases, gotten by bathing, fishing, or . . .parasitiC. worm), ·scabies .• leprosy; trachoma, and · con- junctivitis. The figures are: 200 million infected with schistosomlasis; 500 million · With trachoma, 'manY causing blindness, .and the inCidences·.of . the sldn diseases, scabies and · leprosy, approach 80% of the ,populationin.some.areas. ;Ev·erything Y·OU Wanted to Know About Venu~s, But Were Afraid to Ask . · These astoll1lding figures can be :co:rhbatted very effectively with one'i•siJllpl~ and., to most America:i!S;·· ··,s~~roirJgly trivial devise: the ·'~~~~PtunP· The same rusted, negl~cted . pwnp seen ori' ·old farms out'l)Y·the outhouse, but not too close,.·can save hundreds of lives. And - ByMARGARETESHOO Perhaps some of you have observed an unusually bright star in our skies recently. Well, the star is .actually the planet Venus and it is hardly unusual. Venus is the closest object to-the earth besides the .. moon. Therefore, it is not \' The Minerva H·our The Minerva Committee of Union College Presents: May26 HALPH ALPHER, distinguished professor of physics at Union, is.P.erhaps best kllown for his work with other scientists on nucleosynthesis in an. evolving universe, better known as the \big bang'; . theory .. He is a memp~r of a group of area scientists who oppos.e the proposed \ Star Wars\ defense system. : j . THURSDAYS 11 AM All Lectores Are In Th~Union College Center Auditorium. All Are Welcome~ Admission Free. For lnfonnation: (51 B) 37().6508. PHYSICS .COLLOQU I·UM · MOY 26 NEW RPPRORCH:ES TO INTRODUCTORY PII'YSICS Jl. Resnick, Department o.r Physlcs. Rensseloe·r Polgti!cbnic Institute ;JlJN,E 2 _ · RUTHERfO.RD Bfi:CK SCRTTE'RtN& RN RNRlYTICRL TOOt RS Dr. Peter R.euesz, Department O:f Material Sciences Rlld ~nginee.ring; Corne:ll Uniuersity Anti central Ph!Jsics Research .Institute, ·Budapest Stelnmelz .Hall, Reom 106 Refreshments will be serued at 4:30 ~urnrising that. it shines so brlgbf;JY,:in the. sky. In fact, the Babyloiu.a~ were the first to observe tli'e:···.Q:1Qvements of Venus in 1700 BC. Venus had spe~ial significance .~to :many ancient cultures who · · bUilt temples in honor .of the goddess· and worshipped her. We are most familiar With the n3Ille Venus derived frorn .. the. Roman _goddess ~of beauty. It is claimed that in Polynesia, human sacrifices were offered to the planet as late as tile 19th cen· tucy. Thus, Venus bas had a striking significance in the history of our world. However, Venus has an en· tirely ' different scien~c significance. Understanding Venus helps astronomers ·place our own· earth in to the framework of understanding the universe. In some ways Venus is almost a twin of the earth. It is olll,y slightly smaller and less massive, but it is 41,000,00() kilometers clo::;er to the sun. The radius of Venus is \16 km which is 95% the radius of the earth. The mean density of Venus is5.Zgm!cm3, which is also 95% of .th'e earth's density. This suggests. that th_e planet's interior is generally similar to that ·of the earth. . Although Venus is simil~r to ~he earth in density and 'SIZe, tt's atmosphere and . surface en~ vironment are quite different .. The surface ()f Venus 1s always obscured by tbick MelloWish douds .. 'rhese clouds consist .of droplets of con- centrated sUlfuric acid and sUlfur dust making the en- .1 . \!'ironment hostile towards any form. of .life~ The pressure on . Venus is 90 bars which is equal to the pressure 900:meters down in our oceans. Active volcanoes may be. responsible for main· taming, these sulfur rich clcouds and would also explain· theii: yellowish color. The main cloud is broken into several layers and extends down to about 30 km from the.surfaee.Below, the · -atmosphere is essentia:lly clear. , Space probes, such .as . the Pioneer Venus Orbiter laun· ched by NASA in 1979, . reveal . that 96% of the Venusian at· · · mosphere is,carbcn dioz!de witb .___......., ______________________ ......,. small amounts of rutro~e~. Other constituents illclude hydroflouric acid and hydrochlork acid. The temperatUre on Venus averages 900 . degrees. Farenheit. This high slli'face temperature is believedt() bem maintained by the greellhouse effect. A simple example of the greenhouse effect is observed when you leave your car 'in the summer sun fol'\ a few hours and find that the temperature inside .becomes much higher than outside~ This phenomenon occurs because incoming. light easily penetrates tile win~ows and is absorbed by the obJects itlside. These objects then re- . radiate this energy at infl\ared wavelengths to which the glass windows are opaqued. The trapped inf:rared radiati~n. is absorbed by the air and obJe?ts,. causing the temperature to nse. A similar condition occ1.1rs in Venus' atmosphere to proouce the ·high tetnperature~ Ultraviolet radiation from the sun . filters through Venus' clouds and is reradiated' at infrared wavelengths that cannot get back out. Therefore; the atmosphere traps and retains energy. Much attention was focused 011 the remarkable difference between the at- mospheres of Venus an~ the Earth. It is generally believed that Venus being closer to the sun is too hot to permit water to exist hi a liquid state. Radar obServations of the surface reveal that the :planet spins slowly backw~rds on its axis once every 243 odays compared to our 24 hours. The planet orbits the sun in a nearly circular orbit once every 225 days compared to our~363 days~ Tll.us, the sun rises in the east and sets ln tbe west and there are two solar days per· year. V enos's atmosphere has been detected to rotate every 4 <;lays causing a sharp contrast with the slow ~otation of the :planet. Because of . this, strQng . prevailing headwinds blow east to west on the surface. The surface of VenllS has been studied tbrougit ra~r observations. Venus: IS remarkably nat. There are two large continents rising above the generaUy dry, sun scorched, level surface. In othe northern hemisphere there is a oontilient called Ishhtoar Tetra, named after the Babylonian goddess of love. It is approximately the same size of- Australia and consists of a high plateau that is ringed by high mountains. The highest regicm is called Max- well Montes and it peaks nearly 12 km above the reference level. Our Mount Everest is 9 km above ·sea level. The second Venusian continent is called Aphrodite Terra, named after the Greek equivalent of Venus, and it lies just south o~ the equator and is about the SIZe of Africa. The surface of Venus has an orange tone because the thick cloudy atmosphere ab- sorbs the blue .component of sunlight. Venus is believed to have evolved in a geologically similar.manner to the earth, but to a lesser extent. The present atmosphere of earth~like planets are considered to be ~e result of gradual outgassmg from the interior, with carbon dioxide and water as the principal constiturents. On earth this water condensed to liquid creating the oceans and the carbon dioxide disolvoed in the water and was eventually locked oup in carbonate rocks. On. Venus the carbon dioxide was released and remaikns in the atmosphere . The text book by William J. Kaufmann called Tbe Universe, contains this interesting statement about Venus: \In a certain sense, Venus is the .Earth's twin. Its surface tells us of our geologic past, and its atmosphere suggests that earth will have an awesome future. Five billion years from now; as our Sun swells to become a red giant star the· oceans w'ill boil and shroud the EBrth in a thick cloud cover. As. the greenhouse effect drives temperatures toward 1000 Kelvin, vast amounts of carbon dioxide will be ,baked out of tlw Earth's rocks. In looking a' V ;!nus's atmosphere, perhaps we see.~he · distant fate o( our own world . Anyone Interested Q w •t• . ID .·. fliDg for tlte Science and Technology Page should contact Anthony Vrondissis Box 2242

Page 16 CltNCORDIENSlS, Ma1 26, 1988~ GET YOUR HAN.DS ON ... LuJg·i's Restau:ran:t CON'CORDIE.NSIS AND 1125· B·arrett St . • GET A GRAS·P ·oN TH-E CAM:p·us. Saxton; Porter, a·nd $:peir Scholar·shlps to Alba~ny La·w S·chool Students who are definitely planning ot attend Albany Law ·School are eligible to apply for Saxton, Porter and Speir Scholarships. Forms are avaHable in-the Political. Science Department Office. Deadline for submission is July 1 . S:ch,e·ne.ctady, NY Phone # 518-382-5429 Banq.uet Room O·pen Lun:cb 12-~:'0:0 Dinner M~o'-nm:' Wed., & Th·urs. -4--9 Closed Tues~days ' (Banquet .Room up to ·5·0) MALE CAMP · COUNS.ELOR WANTED ''Dad was right.. \bu get what you pay for.~'· R.I. Co-Ed Overnight Camp For more information CALL AND'REA · X4209 Thinking of a · Nissanor Volvo? See Eric Weiner Union Class of '87 · Nemith Motor· Corp. Route9 ~ ' Latham 785-8531 8l~ McCld!AN 5TRE£T ScHay, N.Y. 12308 More peQple choose AT&T ovetlanyother Iong · · distance-service. Because, with AT&T, it costs less than you think to get the service you expect, like clearer connections, 24-JJ.Our AT&T operator · 'assistance·, instant credit on wrong numbers. And the assurance that we can put virtually every one of your calls through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. So when it's time to · make a choice, remember, it pays to choose AT&T. . If you'd like to know more about our products or services, like the AT&T Card, colt us at 1 800 222-0300. AT ~aT The right choice.

CONCO~DlENS!S, Mqy 26» 1988 Page 17 - - ~ ,.- ·' /, ' ' ., ·.·.' ~ ... •' ·, '. ' ,. ''\ - - . 'F. ... . . I • ARTS & FILMS ... ', .. . \\' ·- - . . - - ,Q'Neill's \All ·God-'s Chillun . • • Astounds. at the N:ott By KATIE BOYD AdtJEditor While \All God's Chillun Got Wir:lgs;' . s-ociety (through prejudice, sexism, and in- tolerance,) clips these wings. In this play· O'Neill has con- centrated his analysis on these .mortally earthbound charac- ters. And, in the characters' defeat, -O'NC:Jill demands the audience to empathize, to · condemn, and hopefully to recognfze.and change .situations similar intlleir,own lives. Michelle Mara:tto, a first time director, and Moun- tebnaks/BLAS were very ambitiou.s to briilg this emotionally charged. subject matter to t:he Nott. The play centers Qn the courtship and. eventual marriage of Jim Harris (Craig Summers) and Ella . Downey (Jennifer England). The tension created by this intEr-racial relationship is the motivating force of the play. Craig Summers was ex- ceptionalas the tortured victim of both >love and hate. David Berry as ,Joe, and Roliert Waxmanas the 'fighter' Mickey represented the staid character!l who by accepting their limited 'roles' promote · prejudice andgivetheaudience a tangiblE identification ·Of its destructive force. Due to -fine performances by both Berry and Waxman, these characters \P Chillun Got Wings.\ were more complex: than they appear on paper, _and thus, harder for the audience to ignore. But perhaps the greatest aspect of this peru formance was the ·cohesion within the cast. All the cllaracters listened to and complimented their fellow actors in a play performed by a team dedicated to the complete pr(,lduction. Argw:nents could be raised that this play is dated,. that its language is stereo-typed; and degrading (as Maratto notes) to blacks. But, Maratto also notes, it is degrading to whites as well. And the final condemnation must be to intolerance that hurts people, that clips wings._ At times the acting was too big and one wishes Maratto had centered the actors more. But in her defe.nse the project was overwhelming, as was the subject matter, and the issues raised. Finally, Maratto must be applauded .for her ambition and the success of her effort. TAMARA BAR,SAMIAN I Drawings - Paintings Photographs - Sculpture May 27 ~ June 1 0, 1 988 First Floor Arts Building Union CoHeg.e~ Schenectady. New York Opening Reception 'Friday, May 27 4:00 - a:oo pm By JIM MacLAUGHLIN Arts Editor The last one. This column will be the last of this series of ::r: movie reviews, as this reviewer g will be passing through the ffi gates of Union for the final time ~ in June for a date with· his ffs \future.\ But, knowing that a ii5 greater part of this issue of >- Concordiensis will be filled with ~ sappy articles and personals b dealing with graduation, this 1l: art,icle will inflict no · such melodramatic torture on its few, precious readers. Instead, the aim of this swan song is to provide a semi-useful tool for entertainment purposes. As summer draws nearer and nearer, many of us begin to dream of how much .fun we are going to extract from its two, extremely short, months' length. However, the reality of summer falls somewhat short of the fantasies it provokes. After a planned day of tanning is rained out, or an all-night party doesn't agree with waking up for work, or your loved one takes off for a long family vacation, one's impressions of summer can quickly turn. Suddenly ,you may find yourself stuck with nothing to do, no one to do anything with, and left with no good movies to see. Such an occasion can elevate your VCR to a equal position with frisbees, of · golf clubs, tanning oil, and back seats. Thus, the pur,pose of this article becomes clearer, to suggest a few favorite videos cf Buddy and me, in order to assist you in times of summer distress. Jim and Bu.ddy at.th.e Mov:ies 1. Caddyshack... Certainly not the greatest movie ever made, but when viewed with a large crowd, and a couple of cases of Bud (in cans), it becomes absolutely hysterical. 2. Ferris Bueller's Day Off. \anyone ... anyone\. 3. About Last Night... Rob Lowe's only worthwhile movie is not only steamy and sexy, but extremely funny. 4. Anything with Steve Martin. 5. Anything with Rodney Dangerfield. 6. -First Blood ... Forget the _dumb sequels, this film has everything you could possibly want from a movie of its type; great violence, good action, and lots of memorable quotes. 7. Innerspace ••. Dennis Quaid and Martin Short in a great comedy take-off of the sci-fi classic, Fantastic Voyage. 8. Monty Python's Holy Grail and Life of Brian ... The best two movies made from the British comedy troupe. ·These are just a few choice ~elections that never fail to provide at least a little en- joyment. If, perhaps you are in the mood· for more challenging movies try, Tin Men, Starman, Local Hero, Harold and Maude, Diner, After Hours, Cal, Something WBd, The Right Stuff, 12 Angry Men, Anna, anything by Woody Allen, and, of course, The Graduate. In any case, if your best laid plans. go awry, and you are forced to seek relief from your local video srental store, don't be afraid to experiment. Don't bypass movies because you have never heard of them, perhaps you might find a new favorite. Enjoy the summer, and don't be too much of a veg. Cross gates Mall Cinema Hey ..:ampersl Hope your school year was as exciting as this Top 89.7 was for me. Fri. & Sat. ONLY 1 Bestlejuice 1:50, 4:50, 7:40, 10:10 12:15 2 Seventh Sign 1 :4o, 4:1o, 7:3o, 1 o:2o 12:25 3 Above The Law 1:30, 4:35 ' 7:45, 1 0:~5 12:40 4 'Rambo Ill 12:10, 2:35 .• 5:15, 7:50, 10:30 12:35 \ 5 Biloxi Blues I 12:40, 3:20, 6:20, 9:00 1\1 :10 6 Casual Sex 1 :15, 4:25, ?:15, 9:55 12:00 7 ·wilbw 12:30, 3:30, 6:50, 9:50 12:20 8 Colo~s 12:50, 3:4q, 6;40, 9:40 12:10 9 Friday the 13th Part VII 12:40, 3:20, 7:00, 9:20 11:.20 10 Crocodile Dundee II 1 :05, 3:50, 6:30, 9:30 ' 11:55 11 Shakedown 12:35, s:2s, 6:20, e:ss 11:.15 12 Milagro Bean Field 12:45, 3:25, 6:45, 9:40 12:05 Its -ben a long year and I hope this play list lines up to your ultimate fantasies about WRUC. Let's see, oh yeah, listen to 'RUC for previews of Lets Active, Treat Her Right and Eek-A=Mouse .. because they will be on West Beach for Camp Union. So get . ready to thow off your shoes and dance on grass. l. Robyn Hitchcock: ·The Egyptians 31. Meal Puppets 61. Sountrack: Dogs in Space z. Mighty Lemon Drops QateSt album) 3:2. OUI)(comp.) 62. The Cucumbers 3. Thumas Dolby 33. Aztoo Camera 63. Defcnestration 4. Camper Van Beelhoveo 34. Soup Dragons 64. Attitude 5. NilS 35. Proclaimetll 65. Close Lobsters 6. Smithereens 36. Hollse of Freaks 66. Woodentops 7. Mambo- X 37. Government Cheeu 67. Bolshoi 8. Sinead O'Connor 38. Doctors Children 68. Fishbone 9. Talking Heads . 39. Eager Tones 69. Erasure 10. TheBeaiS 40. Midriight Oil 70. AnnsAkimbo 11. The·Chutch 41. Soundtrack: She's Having a Baby 71. Barbarian Lovers 12. TheCtmlras 42. Dead Milkmen 72. TI1c Ot.her Kids 13. R.E.M. 43. It's Raining 73. Houscmartins 14. Firehose 44. Monty Python 74. Daddy in His Deep Sleep 15. Beatnik Bcatch 45. Communards 75. Jesus & Mary Chain (older album) 16. Game Theory 46. Drivin' & Cryin' 76. Balancing Act 17. Morrissey 47. Gun Club 77. Naked Raygun 1&. Johnathan Richmond &The ML's 48. TheAlann 7&. BuUhole SurleJ:l; 19. Boom Crash Ope.tll 49. P.I.L. 79. Alice Donut 20;. The Invisible so. TheBo~ 80. Echo & the Bunnymcn 21. Jazz Butchoc 51. Prefab Sprout 81. Waterwalk 22. Psama Slave Dancers -' 52 82. The Pixies 23. TheConnells 53. Deacon Blue 83. The Dickies 24. The Wild Seeds 54, The Smiths 84. Bobby McFerrin 25. Mhillo Legion ss. M<itorcycleBoy 85. The Yuwig Caucasians 26. The'Pogues 56. Scruffy The Cat 86. Dumptruek 21. Ziggy Marley • 57. The Mirrors 87. Red Hot Chili Peppe~ 28. ioe JackSon {live) 58. ·Pato Banton 88. Rock phonics 29. Billy Bragg 59. Beer on the Penguin 89. T-Bonc Burnet 30. 10;000 maniacs 60. Broadcasters 89.7 Love & Rock..:ts (

Page 18 CONCORD(ENSIS, Mlly 26, 1988 CAMPUS NE,WS CLASSIFIEDS LOST: Gold signet \Taft School\ class ring in 2nd floor South lounge$$ REWARD$$. For sale-Small cube refrigerator. $40.00. Call Barb 386-4293~ Working or .going to school in N.Y.? Want to .share an apart- ment- call377 -7058. FOR ' SALE-52\ · Square Butcher Block Laminated Dropleaf Table with . 4 Breuer style chairs. Excellent con- dition. Asking $90. Please contact Penny Adey, ext. 6015. WANTEDS: 16\BMX-type bike with or without training wheels. 3714883 or 371-1284. For Sale: 3 yr. old, 3 HP Snapper Lawn Mower w/ grass catcher, $125. 371-1883 or 371- 1284. First Investors Corporation established since 1930 invites all Capital District residents in- terested in an opportunity in the investment industry to attend an informational seminar to become acquainted with our organization am} the positions we have available here in Albany. Contact Murray Leonardson at459-5415. Interested in politics? Make it pay with Citizen Action. We are now hiring canvasers to work on environmental and com- sumer campaigns. 2 - 10 p~m. $190 to $250 per week. Pay training. Part _time/full time.Call John at 465-4600. Lose the lottery? Need third roommate beginning fall term. l'rf\ (o~cr:)C:f!Nb f\ ~ALL.VCl No6eN\C HA~BJI?beR. \ ·Just redone .. furnished - male or female. can x4084. Sanyo Cube Refrigerator .for sale. Great condition. The freezer compartment has a door so it really keeps things cold. Only $M. Call x4369 or leave a note in box 1089. PLEASE :LEASE our .spec- tacular summer sublet!! ! 3 bdnn., Gillespie St., furnished, dean, and just a bargain! If you are even \kinda\ interested please call xS962 or x6967. Avoid the September RENTAL CRUNCH. Spend one months' rent ($475} to hold a beautiful, completely fur- nished. flat uritil September. From 9/1 thl\oughout the school year rent is $475/month plus utilities. Tbis;. 1st floor 2 bedroom flat is 1 mile from Union campus on a quiet street, near Price Chopper and Central Park, in an owner-occupied house. Includes wall to wall carpet, . refrigerator, stove, dishwasher, microwave oven, ceiling fans and screen./sto~ windows. Full furnishings are included, or bring your own. References required at ap- plication. A refundable security deposit will be collected in September. QUIET, . RESPONSIBLE STUDENTS ONLY! Call Paulat377-1266. House sitting situation wanted. Older returning student, single. Please contact John McGuire c/o Civil Engineering Dept. Call ext. 6262. ASAP. Wanted. Help wanted soon with all types of work connected with a furniture store. Need a strong individual perhaps one who can drive a van. 823 Eastern Ave.; 374-7785. If ~ou· wt~L. ... ~ ~~s~R~rvl ~~Get\{ PERSONALS . J, V,&K- Thanks for a most amazing . year. You guys have been the best; I'U certaillly lever forget i 252,David.son'South! 1049 University--So what if we had fuzzy creatures running around, our roof leaked, and we · didn't have a ~tove ... living with you guys wasstill the best. . The old 3rd floor Richmond , gang-I'll be back! Make next year the best! . Love, Syracuse Bound **Congratulations** To Larry Mannino and John George The only men to defeat \the- Behind-the-Scenes-Ninja\ and retire from \Shinobi.\ Rm. 260: This i_s just to say thanks for tbe laughs, the cries, the late night talks and the times when we had nothing we'd rather do than be with each other! I love you gp.ys!! Jennifer Mary Beth, Don't be cheating on Mr. Cunningham Junior with Mr. Cunningham Senior next year just because you're the on the same floor. Be careful! L andD P~, we look forward to seeing you next fall. Let us know how the Siberian prisons are-if they ever let you out of them. Don't create any incidents in Russia! LandD Deero, We'll be spending our entire swnme:rs just looking for John MacE.-are you • frightened? Don't miss your friends at . the C. Library too much:and' don't OD. on·bologna! :LandD The . .nugget is coming, the nugget is coming~ t-i. · Subliminal Message: Write the research students over the summer. Write the 1 research students over the summer. Muttley.....,..Where weekend--S to this ROBERTA GOLD~ERG and ASHLEY EDMONDS, I always thought your last Union personal would take longer to .get here. Though I know you don't bave l to be standing in front of me , o be a part of me, I'll miss you just the same~ -D.L John Gifford Cummings, This is your very own personal. Do I ever forget anything? Don't answer that. I hear there's a great zoo in Cape. Cod. Want to go? No goodbyes 'cause Iknow I'll see you. Kris Tri-Delta Suite 260: Thanx for making me an honorary member of \the click\ rt has been a great senior year-the highlights are too numerous and humorous to . mention. Good luck-the 5th suitemate liTO- Be it OC or the big \T.\ I . couldn't have had the' same fun without you. I have no doubt that Utica will become the social· spotlight upon your arrival. Happy GEing! '------------------------------------- · Janey·B- . You better be, back when :thj.s comes out! I've missed you a · . wholebuncb! A C- It mu8t have been the sexy red leather tie. It seems like forever since group No. 1 metin Bailey. Looking back on college-I'U · nevedorget you. the girl in the black shirt Delta Gamma Senj.ors, · Good luck! May your future be · filled With happiness and success! Love,C.V. Tracy, Molly, Nancy and Jenny · B . I hope you guys are going to : have an extra bedformEr-Lina JenF---I did it! I beatyou to Chi . Psi on Sat. night! Ha, Love Lisa • 1041 UniversityGalso£88-89, Get .psyched for an amazing year of pre-party parties and • schmoozing! -:-Tine Suz-1'11 miss you much. Yes, • once again I'm rommateless! · Hope next year is better for you. Lov€ ya, Sue · Gary, I have this great ~2 deal for you, so how about some Grade Asmack?! Love, Me Sue Bee, What's in the bag? I can't tell, hut its definitely festering!! -Shell --.~~..,_---.. -----------... _ __, I \:R'Jc>\0 o~ ~Ni ct\~~,c.~t,. SJBS\1\\{Cf \)ffGcffi6Uc ~i tf\OQcRN DR~G \e.<;'\\~& ~ND fN-n{fCI' OR\J~\'\\C··. I \::') vt((!J/(~r-~ J v ~· / -rHAf ~B~ SH(1}?{) Be ¥:t~NG trll+nY ~CoN[) !YWI

C'AMPUS 'NEWS \bull caca'' is over. What's wrong with the air in there? Maybe we should import some from overseas. Smtle! You look prettier ' that way. LOve, \Faith\ Kim Burning down Smith Housel!! GPBSertiors: You create the most delectable · Remember Gamma Phi Beta culinary delights but there's ' Remember when you're away always plenty CJf empty Remember the friends you've stomachs. -Julia Child met here .and don't forget to come back some day! Christopher, Gooter, Mannino. R.J., A.J., andJohnG.- Thanks,fot making a potentially difficult term for q1e, a good one. True friends are always true friends. Thanks for being there for me. You're the greatest. Love, Splatt JAM''73\ I don't know, officer, did H!.lil to put my directionat on when changing lanes. ' KBH \cruise control\ Kirby, Oh what a tangled web we weave, . When we practice todeceive! Untrue but incredil>ly profound -Kibby DG-Sunday night J was awesome! Thanks tQ all who helped . make ft possible. Scary, Mt., Nature aBd Banger •.. The clock is ticking kids! ,., Someone w/ a g()od sense of humor. Return my door xerox's. 3rd Floor Fox S. It's been a year' I'll never forget. Thanx, RJ~A John- It's been a fine four months. I'll miss you. Have a fantastic summer, honey. Keep in: touch. Love always, yo11r next-door neighbor Jill& Cathy,Sneeze, sneeze, cough, cough, swollen glands ... worth it? Lin a Matthew, Directions for a simple taskJ ready? step 1: Place right ind~x finger on .. . * · don't hate me Amy, . Only· two more weeks until this Anju, Fulfill your senior prophecy! . Keep us up to date on bow . tpings ate goingt We'll miss you . -GPhiB , 88MALHOTRA: Finish that thesis, we. have to party! Happy Senior Week! -Cyndie Ranger, I'll let you know· how deep the tan gets. Good· luck out there, it's a bit scary, even with a hatchet. Fletch ·Cindy-Lou-Who- You're a . · wonderful· roommate! (That's what you are-a! ) Get psyched for· Camp U! Let's fina.lly party togetfier. Your Roomie Push it, push it real good. Who said Debbie Gibson was coming to Union? What a farce. Gina! We ~ll really miss you next year! . . Love, Val, Lindsey and Jill Gina Mancuso is an awesome sister! Time to celebrate, SENIOR! Kristy, Best of luck next year. We're all ; going to miss you! Love, Gamma Phi Beta Dana, Which would you rather be? A zombie, a head hunter, or a dragon? Pc;Jrson!lllY, I prefer to be a dragon! Your cloned chopstick Cori, Remember fluorescent the yellow sweatshirt and Top 10 Quotes Overheard- at the ·Moscow Summit' and · at Registration bY DJK and JMW 1 O.\All I need and alii want iis a liberal learning credit\ 9. \If you're back in the D.C. area, I know agreat massage parlor\ 8. \AU right .. .is Music Cultures of th~ World closed out?\ 7. \Pay no attention to those labor camps over there.\ 6. \What do you mean I have to write an essay to get in .this ~cour-se?\ 5. \Missiles? Wnat missiles?\ 4.\Fines? W!lat unpaid library fines?\ 3. \The st~rs are right for our meeting this time.\ .. 2.\First no room-- now no courses!\ 1. Tie.: \It's all just a problem of the class system.\ lolqpop~?: Uuop times will roll again, b11tat a faster pace! ! Loveya, Rox Seniors ofG-Phi-B, Hope you enjoyed senior celebrati,on. We're going to . miss you ~11. Let's make the most ofthe next 17 days. Love, Gamma Pili Beta I saw a re;ld·door and I painted it black. To the h()use of S.- Any new pLays opening soon? I've been aaditioning actors all · 4 years :but haven.'t found many who.hasJiislines down. J,K,&M, Her.e's t() the future! Here's to the passted (out) night! Thanks · for the IJest four years of my life. Loveya P .S. You.have 2 weeks left to do your dislle,s. Melissa .and Hilary~ What will Junior Year be without seemg you every second ()f th~ day? Wendy~ 110 Ri<!hmond is going to he great...,thanks to you! Gary & Shawn-I'm so glad I got to meet you and become your fri-end. You really are two very special guys. Good luck with everything and come and visit! YQu put a big smile into my Spring Term. Thanks. Love, Andrea Gail~No )llore z()os, no more thesis, no more meetings! ! Union is: g()ing to be unexciting without you. We love you! Cheryl, Mamie, Judith and Jackie Morris and Pepe le Den- Thanks for Saturday. , Missa,. Kirsten, Gretch,, Becka, . Annie, Marn, Bethi: Here's to .. the Riclunond HackeL\s and the awesome-ist 8 chicks at Union .. Thanks for a great y-ear! Love, Julie Sue • • Had two of the best times at the formals. You looked ab- solutely ravishing. Totally umrrorgettable nne, not the formals! !fi): § I . ~ ';:: - ,. - .. .. ~· ,, j •• . '. t...t> ....... v v Love, John PIZZA PUB Steph, Beth, Julie-Get psyched! Thank God we got tbe last suite on campus! · Love, Lisa GJR, . From Monday night Skellar nights to spring term porch parties -we've been through it all! It's been the best four years. I'll miss you! Your eternalroonunate! JGC-Couldn't let you graduate 0 for 4. Can we have a brief synopsis of the movie Friday night for our personal files? The women To the Women- \you've got the look\ but no one's got the \Big Red Star\ - keep trackin'! All the men whotried P .S. Are we really neurotic?? Greece '88-- Dude man it was baked! Ouzo power! Yasoo-MOU Jimbo- Thanks for Monday night ... You were a great ...... storyteller! You're the greatest. We love you. And you don't snore!! Bruce and Drewan- Hope you have a great sum- mer! I'll miss yoalots next fall. Don't forget mel · Love always, Joy Gary, Morty, and Jim, n:s nap time so put your keppie on the pillow and go shhiffie! Love, H Tina, You're an amazing sister not to mention vice-president! We're always behind you because you're one of us and we love YOU!! Love in PKE, Gamma Phi Sarita, Many thanks for \saving my life.\ I owe you one? Love, Jill Jimbo, You're the one for me ... maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but someday in the future. C- I'm always happy, just very shallow! -trouble- Butthead PAY OORIII DU£ uoo .Attention Geri Lynn Mackey! ! As the only junior in the Alpha P.ledge Class we're sorry to see your Wldyirig jovialiless go to some sterile Corpora~on! We love you! Your secret sister. ' ' LoriL- Only 17 days left. Have an amazing time. I am going to miss you next year. TammyB- Love Your LittleSister Get psyched for your show. Best of luck. Love, Gamma Phi Beta Sigma Chi: Thank you for the use of your bar room. It was very much appreciated. Gamma Phi Beta To all the members of B.L.A.S.- Thank you for the amazing meeting Monday night. Think positively! Love, Garruna Phi Beta Sigma Phi: Get psyched for Friday. It is · going to be amazing. Gamma Phi Beta Dirt-Fall tenn\s ccnning soon, where will you be? London, France or Italy? Maybe Greece in the winter? Make a decision,. but for now, go buy some stilts or platform shoes. Love, KILLER & TWERP Twerp, Which would you rather have -a computer to work at in the CHUC room or a boyfriend? C-C-C-Cevin, Alas! Your name can be folllld on a page other than letters tCJ the editor. K-K-K-Karen Tracey- I've got the nails, whipped cream, and cherries ready. It'll be a great year. Your Roommate-to-be Gary andShaWil, Shawn and Gary, Well guys, it's been awesome and I swear that I'll miss you! 0AX ' ACliYI II~·A·WOUSI '\'·' ... Lina . l

Page 20 CONCORDIENSlS, May 26, 1988 CAMPUS NEWS ' \Excuse me, how long have you two been going out? You look like you still like each other.\ \About 3 months,\ she replied. C.A. . AEH-I'm gl~d that everything · Jo--- ·Nice ~form! Good. to se;· worke~ out f1ne. Now you can that you have talent! I know deal With any potential rumors. · that I couldrl't balance a couple I had fun making them think! ! ! · of glasses like thaH! ! Oh PERSONALS PMA/KBA: There's still time to avoid the dreaded graduation monster, thus contributing mightily to the happiness of everyone but your bank ... MM- Thanks for being there when I · needed someone to .talk to. Enjoy your time at Union! You'll always be thought of as a · special friend. Keep in touch! -GR Shel Shel and Michele, Thanks for being such great friends! I'm going to miss you guys! When are we .going for lunch'? DGSeniors, Let's make the next 17 days the most incredible yet. We owe it te ourselves. J.T.- It really is too bad that you're graduating - geod luck, whatever you end up doing next year. Lester, You will be missed! Don't worry, I'll write with all the gossip! Lin a To the new owners of 317% Seward, Get psyched! We have much work to do but it will be great! Don't forget a dog can make a house a home! ? ! ? MishM- There is a dog out there that wants your love! MishL Amy&Kristin, Thanks for · organizing an awesome party. Anchors Away Chrissy, The Olympics were the best ever~ Great job! DG Les- Get psyched for Europe - England will never be the same again. Have fun in Hong Kong! -Joy HeyBD, First the room, then the of- fice, now TAU. What's next'? Have an amazing time this summer.MM Acapulco '88--\De nada y veinte,'' \For yoU a special price, almost free, today!\ Juan English, Jean the Pina Colada queen,. Disco Circus, J en and Johnny! Scam Master, It's been a great 4 years-from 2fld floor Nun- nery to.the •·•Romper Room''! I'm gonna miss you! Keep Scammin'-Love, Spelling Bee Champ · Smiths, I've had the time of my life ... Just remember (or try your . best!) . .. Taco's, Sandy's chicken, house gossip, 3, 2, 1 drink! and \Burning Down ·the House.\ C&G- We're gonna miss you. Do you have a .pull out couch? Pukcip and other fun! Yourother\3-D\ 1!2 The four crazies at 853 Nott- It has been a hectic, but fun year. I'll miss you guys lots. You're all welcome to visit me in NYC any time. Good luck here or there. Love the 5th OSMJr.: I know you are working hard-but, it will all be worth it in the end. After all, what better a way to end \the four best years of your life? ! ? - Y mirtravel companion My \forever\roomie: \We survived her workload, quiet and introverted neigh• bors, and tons of personal crises ... \ We have come a long way since West 429-thanx for 4 great years! S-ya you Remember who loves ya babe! Jo-mama Remember the Golden rules: know 'em, learn 'em, and live 'em. Most importantly - never crash and burn! USA baby S-Cheer up! ! ! (Yes, this one is REALLY FOR YOU!) Dave, Big Dave that is, For Sale-Sanyo Cube Refrigerator. Like new, freezer compartment really works. Asking $50. Call x4369 or leave a note in box 1089.1 Good to see you off your back-! was considering coming over and 'whipping' you back into shape! Little One DAP- Please, won't you leave your books behind. Can we go out S'daynite? -El Dear Dr. Ruth, . It may be a lost cause but I'm taking Zn to keep the Wd's going! Thanks, Whoos Pam-Whatever you're thinking I'll be here all sum .. mer. One Aim Dave Lina- . You owe me dinner and tell your sister I want to marry her, .the one you never visit. 7- 130.0 ... pee, sweat, run, spit, (underwear) ... 130.0!! 130.6 ... pee, sweat, run, spit, (underwear) ... 1300!!! Way to go, babes! Happy Belated Birthday! ! Love, 8 KT- Thanks - for everything! Keep in touch. RG To all the Smith Girls, Thanks for everything you've been and are my best friends and you are part of my fondest memories! I'll miss you! G.Jen JM-Get ready, get GR Anyone interested ln Israel next · psyched- 19 more days and Europe here we come 1 ! ! winter, .hurry and contact the Terms Abroad Office. \vtelissas A, . · Have fun next year with your two \insane\ roomies - hope you like Barry Manilow. · .. BGE s .. BlynnN. Here~s to a great roonunate and friend of 4 years! Thank you for everything. I'm going to miss you! G. Jen So what ex.acUy is that bet? And by the way, am I ever going . to get my B & J ice cream? See you when I'm 75. S.K. Your Dirty Dancing Partner · ·. Sylvi~! So, do you think we have enough Personals this week? Who is to blame? Gamma Phi or Lina. LoriL., Hope you enjoyed senior celebration. Good luck. We're going to miss you. Love, Garnma Phi Beta E(L)- I could never put it all in a personal, but I'll say what I can, HKNUOXNT! :! ! -R.O. (HAL) . Mat~If you look in a mirror and Qon't recognize yourself . when drunk, just assume that it is you, and have another beer. -S CAB ' . Thank you for making this year !)--. • E(L)- Guesswhat? ~ He is with his other girlfriend! (Kidding!) S so special! . What will I do without you? I'll remember your cliche, \Absence ... \ Love, SMC P.S. I'll miss you!! ! CO·NGRA TULATIO·NS TO TH:E RESI:DENT ADVISORS 1988-1989 HEAD RESIDENT_ ADVISORS Dawn Buonocore Bruce Hay Eileen Sweeney RESIDENT ADVISORS Laurl A de I stein David J. Adinolfi. II Rich Aquinaldo EUzabeth Berliner Meg Cocozzo Nancy Conway Tonia Ellsworth Robert Harvey Aaron Katz Kyle G. King Nisith Kumar. Mark l. annrio Kenya Lenoir Brett Malofsky Mary Beth Manning Taj Mulukutla Lisa Mercugllano John Meyer-·~. Martina Mo&re Debbie Mulford Gary Pastiito Patrice Prusko Mark Richter Danah Ritte'f Annette Hoooita M.ichael Scllillitz Ed Stevens Shelley Szymko Drew Ward Alison WlUiams Victoria Wise Stephanie Woodard TERM ABROAD.ALJERNATE BESlQENI AQVISOR Todd Adelman Jeff -Liberman Reprinted from last week's Concordiensis. Sorry about the mix-up in names. @~~~ ~~U©~ !J@@ft} UNION COLLEGE .-.\\'.

CONCORDIEft{SIS, May 19, J98S Page 21 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALs Ziggy and Eeyore--.:Thanks for the memories. You've taught me that it is a .plaid world. Remember, it's only a paper moon. Your lifeloag .friend. ·Mel Ee, the fog is velvet! Union College-:That'sJ•azz! Zig Frieze.. . .. W.W. Clarke I'm haPPY that we spent time t()gether this .terni! 'Let's CI!OSs our fingers for passing Frazier's f-inal and Buffalo --together next year. -Real world watch out!. Love·ya, AB d.P., G.B.,S.C., andM.M., 'l'he po.tato convention wiltmeet again on Monaay, at Slapshots, to discuss milkshakes, closets and sex1 See yath.ere, LeslieandAndrea All I want is a present!!! l'U ; Jean, miss you .. ,. · ·The joke .was fabulous! Be Me , . prepared for revenge! Dinner Terrill, It's been the beam; getting to ' know you. The fun has just begun! Here~s to the undecide.d future! Luv,Andrea Bruce (Navy•wuss) CybiL hopes to receive phone cans .next year! If she doesn't, . she is likely to do sometbing AWFUL! She says she'll miss you next year but I'mnot sure - which personality to beLieve! Mailman-Miller, What a.m I going to do without · · you and the secret handshakes? I'll miss you!1 Luscious Linl;l Little Una, Just a note to say goodbye. soon? (I'll pay!) I'm going to miss you in a big, bad, mean way! Luv, Andrea Mowgli, A friend like you comes once in a lifetime. Thanks for alway:; heiag there. What will I do next year w/o you? I guess my phone bill will be huge•! Love you-One Momma Stuie, Keep those feet dancing! Maybe one day you'll make it to the Nuteracker Suite! · Love,Jill Lori, tina, Lindsay (and Julie), Get .psyched for Potter House 2! It'll be an experience to say the least! Love, Jill West, How can you summarize an experience like this? It's beenevetytbing. Michele- . ~ Good luck in .Mass.! I'll miss you! Love, Lisa .Scruffy-! like your style! Muttley_:This is great! We're crazy~and the delays keep getting longer! Boy watch out • for mornings! -s Rich and Brad, Hello, Hello, Hello ... I'm going to miss you guys ... Who loves you babe?'? · It's all fun and games until someone loses their jungle · animal! · Tubby, Expect a few visits during the summer. Get ready for some,cold showers. Tb.eT.ease Help try to save the Pizza Pub! Order our great {and cheap) pizza. Delivery is still free. 370-. 6060. Don't forget that the Pizza Pub will be open in West from 11 · a.m. to 5 p.m. on Saturday of Camp Union. We'll be the only · place open on campus! N., Beal1; Special \T\, Sheila and Honey~Love you guys. Thanks.' 3 more years like this?! Honey I want a puppy! Lub you-8BL. Craig, Freshman recoJ;d staff: Thanks for all the goDd WQrk so far. There's a lot mDte todo though. Stan P.S. Nancy-.smile, one of the ''hot\ freshmen just withdrew. GOOD LUCK 'ISR\ grads. Per:ge P .S. Larkin! get some hair and don't forget, we have a bottle of Absolutto finish. Papandreou, 1J would li'ke to see another of yo11r famous Greek smiles with lettuce and BIG tomatoes! \GIN-SENG\ I don't know h()W to spell it but we are ALL going to eat it.. .... andsee! Do you remember a specific \ECHO'·' inside a certain truck inS---A? To the Lady Trackst-ers: Thanks so much! You g11ys are the best! Best of luck nex:t year, I'll miss you! ! ! Jen Steph- It is great· to see y()u back at U nioh! I missed you! Love, your little Sis To those pmne to setting off · aliums-Smartfod and En- tenmanns are :perfect breakfast food. Flyihg pool balls and Roxanne-Won't this make a great story? Riger-We wailna play with you this summel\! Is that okay? next Should weask.theteacher? visit . Don't forget the Mailman when . • . be is ol1 his European to,ur. I'll , ·send you some ravi-oli. Have a ·. .greatsununer! · Luy, Andy. Love, LeeAnn .. Good luck in France year-maybe I'll come yo11. Who's got a big ole butt? 1041's JAK · got a bigolebutt! P .S.l'm coming home. BLOOM COUNTY 1UMbHT: RJf(f!f~l?. !?8'/€t/1170!J/o !{&G!IKfJIN6 CIINPIP!Irf! 5fl//lS !MCK6NZ!li: .1\ by Berke Breathed fiiJ5T SHoa<ING Or AU.,· W11'Nii:ftf£S !?fJfORr HIWIN'G 5f£N MR. MfiCKeNZII? . • !?KfNK l7 CA5~~ (Jf: .. I l. .,, flfJINtK~N. 4 \ .. \•·.,-. .... .. • Sf WE HIIV£\11 SCIIN!lllt. . \ Becky Don't forget. to feed the cow . ne:d year. It likes an occasional · slice Df Italian bread! Oh and don't let Golden House go !>Ut of business~ither. Love yaJ Ollie and Pope John Paul, My hands only sweat when I'm ne~t t() you two! Vanna . James-Well, the spring term . has been a lot of fun ... what will • happen this fall? I know you couldn't forget me ... but will you wr.ite1 We'll wait and se, right? ~Me Marni.:......Tllanks for a great term. I hope the fall will be just as amazing. Make sure you don't forget about me --Nilla Ne-Ne, I'm leaving and you're in charge of seeing that she stays out of trouble. After all the .fan club is rapidly ex- panding. Stoneberg, that means you too -xoxo Me Mesilla. Anne - Another term It jllst · won't be the same. Be sure to. keep in touch. Firenze's nat thatfar away,.and it's only ten weeks -Georgie ·Going to Syracuse for grad scho()l? Looking for a roomma,de? I am. Contact Dave at Bot 660 or 370-3315. Stace and Ricer- Thanks for everything. MAD \Found- Watch at ZBT Twistin' by the Pool Party, Saturday, May 21. Call4447. Bethy--From lighthouses to dinosaurs and now, back again. What a year and what a fast year. Love, Dave Would you like to work on the Dukakis campaign on campus and locally next fall? The national office wants me to organize a group now, before I gradu.ate. Contact Dave atBox 66()or 370-3315. Don't be cheap Andy. Buy us a pin \keg before you graduate. Hey Sexy.: Nice party last Friday. Just remember, I get the inside of the couch tbis weekend. The guy with the fum1yankle 301 ..... I'm gli?.d I .got to know you two this year (you too M.A.)-Keep in touch ovq• the sllinmer. . 156 P~S. Annette, see you around Easter? Killer, \Oooh baby, it's a Wild World!\ Love, the Twerp Alberto;. C()rnplimentoni per un ~nno pieno di successi e d.i belle sotl.disfazioni !. In bocca al lupo per il prossimo anno ad. Har- v.ard. Con tanto affetto, Cristina Pal~ . Where will we find an 'o'? Buddy I see an idol and I want it painted black! Little Little Lisa, · I'm g()ing to miss you a whole lott Little, Little Lina Dave, Almost a year! lcan't wait.to go to B.I. this year. I'll miss the beach and the stars and the night. Love, Seth

Page 22 CONCORDlENSIS, May 26J, 1988 -WE HAVE A MONO,POL Y ON: FUN . CAMP UNION FRIDAY AND ·sATURDAY S>EE PAGES 10 AND -11 FOR DETAILS THIRD ANNUAL CHARITY SOFTBALL GAME Coacord:ien·sis vs. WRUC Today at 4:30 on Library Field. Castello's Restaurant, Eat in or take out 10% discount with Union College I.D. THE BEST IN ITALIAN & GREEK FOOD P!zza. Calzones, Pasta, Veal SouvlakL Gyros, Wine and Beer Vea\ Parmesan with spaghetti and salad $8.50. Baked lasagna with cheese and salad $4.95 Castello ·s Pizza & Restauranr·· 1487 State St., Schenectady ·ww Deliver 3 7 4-0581 SENIORS: CLASS Of 1988 Keep in touch with ll\\\\\'\~~!! .. ~.!!l!!!!.:..\\\' Subscribe to Concordiensis for the § 1988-89 school year. NAME: ______________ _ ADDRESS:. __ · __________ ,__ You will receive 24 issues for $30. Checks should be payable to 'Concordiensis' For.ms and payment can be placed in the Concordiensis mailbox, _3rd floor, College Center or sent to P.O. Box 2577, ~=~~~ge, Schenectady, NY 12308~ Where You-Can _ Distinguish Yourself This Summer Summer Session I (May 31-July 1) AnatonlY & Plly~iology I *Field Bota11y . Chemistry & Health Fundamentals ·of Chemistry Public Speaking Comparative· Political Cultures *lntroductionto Early Childhooo Education Intermediate French Review American Dreams & Nightmares: An Ex.ploration. of the 1960s Introduction to College Algebra Elementary Statistics Computet Sc.ience H lnteilnedillte and College Algebra Morality and Sexuality *The Cinema and Society Summer Session J:l (July 5-A.ugust 5) *Innovative Explorations in Landscape Drawing *Innovative· Explorations in Landscape Painting \ Anatomy & Pbysiology H Computers & Applications *Curriculum Design for Early Childhood Education Introduction to College Algeb111 H Elementary Statistics American N11tional Government Summer Session III (May 31-Aug~st 5) *Pre-Med, Pre-Health Professions Extemship Introduction to Organic and Physiological Chemistry Internship in Communication Arts Developmental Psychology Abttonnal Psychology Social Welfare Policy S~J«i~l Course OtTerings *Jose Campeche at the Metropolitan Museum (July 7~8) • *'Experimental Raku Workshop: Focus on Nature Folins (August 8--19) *Reduced' tuition: $.140 per credit RegistratioQ: Sessions 1 & Ill- Through May 20 - (Late registration May 23-27. 31) Session II- Through June 17 (Late registration June 27-29, July 5). ' CoUegeof Ner.v RocheUe School of Arts ~ ScileKI~es.,:•Schooi of Nursin_g • School of New Resources • Graduate School Gf?lj~~:of New Rochelle. New Rochelle .. NY IOH05 . . -/:;~;\ (9:14-1 654-5248 __ .- .- ·~ '·t:£~'. : ... ~ ........ ·· .. ,.; ·~ ....... ~:... ·•~'~ ... :~.~- I 5 INT~ANS.Hif?S .f?. r~ Fult-:time positions· With The Legislative Gazette · Reporters, photographers and advertiSing sales- people needed for the onl.y weekly newspaper exclusively dedicated to reporting the news of New York State government Learn first~hand about politics, media and · <ommunication while working full-time in the capital of New York State. ' ' If you are interested in politics,. journalism or sales and marketing, you con 't afford to .miss this opportunity. The program is open to Juniors and Seniors, and offers full-time credit ond a stipend. For more information or to apply, contact: Jamie Matzdorf at (518) 473-6482

CONCORIJIENSlS, May 26, 1988 Pag~ 23 <!runcnrbitnsis ·SPORTS and ·takers But. Advance By ANDREW SEEWALD 'At the time of this pri.nti!Jg, . the conference final& of the NBA playoffs are already Underway, with the Lakers holding a 1-o lead over Dalla~ after an easy victory Monday night, and the Boston vs. Detr-oit series beginning last night. But tbe CQnference semi-finals featured events remar.kal:Jle enough to deserve some reflection. · Swulay afternoon at Boston Garc;len, the basketball world may have witnessed a $hifting of power in the NBA as the Atlanta Hawks .played With' the resources and the resolve to unseat the favored Celts from the throne of ~he Eastern Conference. In previous years, the young but talented Hawks. could have been shrugged a~ide without difficulty; . they were famous for their· ·late season collapses and early exits from the playoffs .. star LarrY Bird had guaranteed a victory, and he held true to his word, but not without a yeoman· like effortin the fourth quarter. The first tbree quarters saw the score bo gack and forth., as Randy Whittmf.Ql sparked the. Hawks With his near~perfect outside shooting, while the Celtics' Kevin McHale scored and drew fouis near the basket. McHale would t:;nd up with 33 points .and Whittmim finished 11-13 from the field,, but in the final quarterthe game belonged to Bird and the Atlanta's All· Star forward, Dominiqu.e Wilkins. Even with multiple. defenders all over him, Bird showed why . he is one of the game's all~time greats by hitting fall-away jumpers, one-handed, off. balance runners, and a number of other shots of whicll as of yet are not ter;med. Bird had 20 points in the quarter to finisll with a team-high S4 for the game. Meanwhile, at the other end of the court, Wilkins was Celtics to escape with a two· ·point victory, and the op· portunity to test their mettle against the Pistons, who ad· vanced in five games over Michael Jordan and the Chicago Buns. The Pistons feel .confident that they will be able to end the string . of five straight final round appearances for Boston, over which sPan they have won two-titles. The team that has banded the Celtics their three final round defeats is the Los · Angeles Lakers, who alSo struggled in their conference semifinal series, as the Utah Jazz ex- tended the defending champs to a seventh game at]he Forum in Los Angeles. during· the regular s.eason, crushed the team that bad the NBA's best reglllar season record in the game . Tbe Cinderella story finally ended at the Forwn.in game 7. After a close first half, the. Lakers asserted themselves in the second half and ·.pulled away. But IJlaDY think that Utah lifted the aura of invincibiUty from the Lakers. Among the believers is the Dallas Mavet:icks, their Dpl)!>nents ilr the next round The Mavericks had defeated the Denver Ntiggets in six games. Now, looking at the series in progress, the Loakers and Celtics have certainlY been proven to be vulnerable . However, last year• s .finalists cannot be counted out. than competent; even out- .st;anding at times, they simply do not, cannot inthnidate and block shots like Eaton. Another reason that the Lakers should reach the finals once again is their prowess at point guard. Magic Johnson and super•sub Michael Cooper, who both played through injuries against Utah, have recuperated in time to restore the impetus to tne famous LA fast break. But after winning gru:ne 5 at the Garden. ·for a 3-2 series lead, the suddenly clutch Atlanta squad• despite losing game 6 at home, demonstratei;l from the start of game 7 that the tiqle- tested but aging Celtics would. have to earn this game, Boston · also scoring in spect~cular fashion en route to a game-high 47 .• Wilkins' magic ·kept the · Hawks within reach, but Dennis Johnson's free thro.w in the dosing moments. iUiowed the Led by a powerful yoUJ1g scorer, Karl Malone, the NBA's assist leader this season, John Stockton, and the largest center ip the league, Mark Eaton, the Jazz became the first team in rec~nt years to dominate the Lakers for multiple games in a series. Utah scored big victories at Los Angeles in game 2, and at home in the Salt Palace in game 3. After loSing narrowly in the next two games at home and away, the Jazz, mediocre The Lakers won game 1 of their series Monday night, and, although Dallas is probably a better team than Utah, the Mav.s do not have a center comparable to the Jazz's 7-foot 4-inch, · 2~pound Eaton. Eaton was the single greatest factor contributing the Lakers' problems, and while the Mavericks' tandem of James Donaldson and sixth-man-of- the-year, Roy Tarpley is more In tbe Eastern Conference, the tired Celtics ·will feel the effects of back-toback games (last night and tonight) at home before going to Detroit this weekend. It is unfortunate that this could be a deciding factor in keeping Boston . from winning this series. All close as it was, the Celtics did defeat Atlanta, and it is doubtful that Detroit can play any better than the Hawks did. Also doubtful is the status of Pistons' forward Rick Mahorn, the only Piston who can defend McHale with any success. Mahorn is injured and will probably miss the entire series. In any event, one of the two series should produce a new contender for the title, with Detroit the more likely can· didate. Third Annua,l Concordie,nsis- .· WRUC S·o·ttball Batt.le THANKS TO THE SPONSORS OF THE By The MUCKRAKERS This afternoon at 4:30 on Library Field, a bitter WRUC ~ftbl;\ll team willtQT to reg1r.~ . Itself after last ye'ar's . hpmiliating 11.;2 defeat against the ever..strong and articulate Concordiensis Muckrakers. This will be the third annual Ooncordiensis-WRUC softball game played to benefit the .S.chenectady Big Brother-Big· ~ister. program. · ·if!' - ·Local businesses ~ve pledged money in return for advertising in either the newspaper or on the air, and several faculty members .are sponsoring one of the teams. Of cQurse, ~hos.e choosing to sponsor WRUC are in luck, a:; they will be holding on to tbeir money. The jocks of the· air, are certainly not joclts of the playing field. This Y.f*lr's should be an especially competitive game as WRUC managed to squeak out · an undeserved 18-4 Victory in the first annual game. leaving the two teams in a blood-thirsty tie. College bragging rights h&Qg in the balance. Concordiensis, however, is not worried, possessing athletes with admirable softball and language skills. Thesauruses in h,and, the Concordiensis . Muckrakers are sure to silence WRUC for-good. · The ~arting lineUp consists .of Sue 'Killer' Kersch, Bill 'Robe' Robbiris, Greg \·let me at 'm\ Goetz, Jen 'double-play' Kove, Dave 'slo·mo' Morrison, Mark 'hot hands' ~ugilton~ Andy !'sports is my life\ Miller, Chris 'Hini' Hinckley, Jim. \I'm so / good I don't need a nickname\ · MacLaughlin,. and Fiona 'shortfielder' Shtikri. All ~Coll­ cordieqsis staff and board are invited to play or just come to watch us win. · La·st year, the two organization$ were able to raise $300 for Big Brother-Big Sister Spectators are welcome: come see tpe \first station · in the nation\ finish last. CONCORD'IEN.SIS WRUC TH.IRD ANN·UAL CHARITY. SOFTBALL GAME: De Cresente Dis~rib~tors Co., Inc. Upper N. Main St., Mechanicville Drome Sound 3456- State Street McDonald's Upper Union Street Northern Distributing Co., Inc. 1 707 State Street Come and watch Concordiensis and WRUC play softball on Library Field, Thursday, 4:30 pm Winners: 1985-86: WRUC 1986 ... 87: Concordiensis 1987 .. 88: ? \ ·CLASS OF. '88 YOU'RE INVITED TO ATTEND A COMMENCEMENT EXERCISE If you've graduated, or will grad- uate, with a Bachelor's or advanced degree betw~en October 1, 1987 and January 31, 1989, you're ir~vited to attend a commencement .exercise at Jack Byrue . You must indicate payment made as agreed. . The $400 from Ford is yours whether you finance or not. Keep it or apply it to the purchase or lease of an eligible Ford or Mercury vehicle. · may qualify tor $400 from Ford and p~e-approved credit from Ford . . Motor Credit Company. To qualify for pre-approved credit, you need: (1) verifiable employment begin• ning·within 120 days after your vehicle purchase: (2) a salary sufficient to· cover normal living expenses plus a car payment; and {3) if you have a credit record,. it For all the details, contact us or call Program Headquarters, tolf free. at 1~800-321-1536. But hurry. This limited time offer is only availabte between March 1 and December 31. 1988. So take advantage of the Ford/Mercury College Graduate Purchase Program now. JACK BYRN,E ·F.ORD & MERCURY WHEN: MARCH 1, 19B8.:.:DECEMBER 31, 1988 FOR: • PRE·APPRO\IEI) CREDIT FROM FORD CREDIT • $400. CASH BONUS FROM FORD JACK BYR·NE F'ORD & MERCURY JCT. RTS. 4 & 32, MECHANICVILLE, NY12118 PH. 664-9841 HOURS: MON. THUR THURS. 9 AM- 9'PM; FAt 9 AM-. 6PM; SAT. 9 AM- 5PM ··Go CONCORDIENSIS - Beat· WRU€ ! ..

It was a season of hard knocks for the gridders. Union ,dropped 5 games from their tO-O NCAA season of '87. · Softball made the states, but it was a limited engagement. ·$ Tough break boaters stayed above water in '88. Cincinatti's newast Bengal: Rich Romer Laxwomen take St. Lawrence to brink in States. Ruggers rebuild: Look to '89. UNION '88 SPORTS Union fans throw their weight behind the playoff oound Dutchmen. Baseball had its ups and downs in '88. Men arid Women indoor and spring track: Tile surprise of the league! . start men and women swimmers to most successful season ever. Hoopsters look to rise in standings 1':1 '88·'89. j l l I i

