ollege 1877 Schenectady, New York September 21, 1989 Security Problem.s Continue To Plague Campus Last we~k. Presidf;Jnt John Morris, the College's 16tl'l President, announced his plans for retirement effective August, 1990. ·By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager · President Morris Rape on the college campus has been the focus of much attention in the press this past summer. The New York Times ran an article about the understanding of why date rape occurs. The rape crisis hit close to home, as well. \On June 28, 1989 at .about 1:45 A.M.\ reports the Security and Safety Department, \ one of our female students was attacked in her first floor apartment as she slept\ on South A venue. 'The woman was raped\. \On September\3 1989 in the same building at about 3:49 A.M. another female student was attacked as she slept,\ the report continued. \Fortunately she was able to fight off her attacker\: The Security and Safety Department said that they have had no reported forcible rapes on campus_ On the other hand, Syracuse University has reported two forcible rapes this year on campus. Announces Fro.m Courtesy of Public. Relations Office John S. Morris, president of the College since 1979, has announced , his retirement, effective at the end of August, 1990. ' Speaking at the opening faculty meeting, Morris, 64, said, \As I look forward to the next five or six years, one future event takes on a clear symbolic and determining role in the life of the College. That event, of course, is the celebration of the Bicentennial of the College. \Looki11g at what my age will be 1996, it seems to me that in order for there to be continuity of leadership leading into the Bicentennial and beyond, it would be appropriate for me to retire from the presidency at the end of August; 1990. This would , allow time for the seareh and choice of your ·~ew president by September, 1990.\ · The president said that . . .. .· ·_ In This Iss.ue: .. An ·Introduct-ion t~ UniQtl · .. page 6. Lt • . - e s go . Deutschland . · · -page?. RehabiUtatinn · of .tlte N:ott - ·. . ·page 18 •·.- · - Dutelunen. Sting - ·. • Yell~wj~ckets , . -Ju•ge· 24 · . . . .. •' . ·--. Retirement Union- William G. Burns '54, chairman of the Board of Trustees, will work with Prof. . Charles Tidmarch, c.hairman of the faculty. about the appro- priate search and .selection committees. During Morris's ten years as president, Union made a number of change,s and additions in its academic pro- grams, renovated and expanded several buildings and Other physical facilities, and dramatically increased its endowll}ent. The academit changes include a new general education curriculum, whic.h will take effect with the class entering this fall; creation of a Department of Ge<llogy; the Continued on page 3 Continued on page 3 College Receives Engineering Scholarship Endowment By CATHY PORTER A memorial scholarship in honor of Eugene Crippen (Union, 1919) has been granted to the College by Mrs_ Eva Hayes Crippen. Mr. Crippen, a Schenectady native, graduated with a degree in electrical engineering and was considered a pioneer in radio electronics. Mrs. Crippen has donated $125,000 to the College for the establishment <>f a four-year annual scholarship of $7,500. The scholarship has been grante~ to a member of this year's freshman class. Preference was given to a student intending to pursue a degree in aeronautical engineering, electrical engineering, or medicine. Mr. Crippen was instrumental in the field of radio electronics, aircraft radar and air traffic control sytstems. He was also the first engineer involved in the installation of radio station WG Y, Schenectady. Crippen was a radio engineer with the Civil Aeronautics Administration from 1937 to . 1945. He was also employed by the Federal Aviation Agency from 1945 to 1962. He retired from government service in 1963 and taught in Binghamton, New York, as Assistant Professor in Electrical Technology. -He returned to the area in 1970 and moved to Troy in 1986. He died Marclt 25, 1987 . Union Creates New Major In Women's Stu-dies By SUSAN D. SHAFFER Editor-in-Chief Schools nationwide have implemented Women's ·studies programs, and Union is following their example. Professor Donileen Loseke, the acting director of Union's Women's Studies major, sees this as a corrective measure. In the past, the academia which has been taught is often slighted from the male perspective. We've been taught a history of great men, ll_u::ir ideas and works. Academici1lly., the Womenis Studies major will open up new areas of study_ It will be offering the female perspective that has been ignored in the past. The Women's Studies major provides what cult1ual observers view as the point to education. Students will develop· their ability to think~ write, analyze and synthesize. Loseke stressed that this is an academic program which is concerned with knowledge., information and scholarship. It promotes new ways of viewing the world while preparing stadents for a career, as well as for being good citizens. As stated in its curricular description, \Women's Studies is an interdisciplinary major through which students engage in the systematic study of gender and explore the varied experiences of women_\ Course req.uiremen ts cover the following perspectives: theo- retical and literary, llistorical, world, biological and psycho- logical, and contemporary. Its diversity in con tent and perspective provides a true liberal arts education. It provides the preparation needed for careers in law, social services, the arts, publishing, teaching, and other fiel-ds. Loseke sees the p.rogram as an exciting major that is not just f6r women. According to Loseke gender affects us all and patterns our lives. It permeates all our opportunities and experiences: All stmdents are encouraged to take the introductory course. Gender & Society. This course focuses on the sociological, anthropological, historical, biological, psychological and literary treatment~ of gender. Loseke hopes that eventually a Women's &tudks major will not be needed, instead this knowledge wHI be integrated throughout the curriculum. UNION COLLEGE C(ASS OF 1993 Number applied- 2,941 Number accepted - 1 ,350 -- 45°/o NUMBER EN ROLLED - 494 Males - 286 -- 58% Females - 208 -- 42% Number from public schools- 351 -- 71 ()/o Number from private schools - 143 -- 29o/o Number oi Transfer Students - 42 AREAS OF INTEREST: Engineering - 66 -- 14% Humanities - 31 -- 6% Sciences - 155 -- 31% Social Sciences - 98 -- · 20% Liberal Arts/Undecided- 144 -- 29% GEOGRAPHIC DISPERSION: New York State - 51 o/o New England - 32% Mid-Atlantic - 8% Other- 8% I ·I I 'l j i ,-

Page 2· By CARL It. FRI'EBRICH, JR. Within the first two weeks of President Bush•s revamped war on drugs, silo-ck waves have already had all effect on the drug culture in Capitaland. A large marijuana llus.t and the arrest of several coc:ai11e dealers in the area are :among the beginnings of a National effort to destroy tile hold 'Wihich drugs have on om country. While the Natioru1l effort has gotten off to a roaring start, it is especially encour2ging to see the quick start in our community as well There are those who may be a little drier CONCORDIENSIS, StJtJ;IEmber 21, 198?. (!lnncnr.bitnsis on campus this year, and for good reasoll-· there should be a lot of cllan,ges c::oming. Most people believe the drug problem to be conveniently located in lhe cities of America, where it is easy for sociologists to blame the problems often associated with • • • as David Gergen recently pointed out, the drug problem in America is essentially an upper· class white problem. the urban en vir on men t. However, as David Gergen recently pointed out, the i:lmg problem in America is essentially an upper-class white problem (U.S. New and World Report, Sej)t. 18, 1989). The ' ' ~, ·.u··s· • 1n inner-cities are a i}attleground, but they .are primarily one baased on economics. Poor urban minorities sell drugs for the same reason that daddy and mummy sell stocks-- it pays for the M(rcedes. As long as the white ·~casual\ abuser is willing to pay for the some alien city. Without ca8ual abusers, there would be no war; From this stage we move to the 'arena of the law. One of those Albany men arrested for attempting to sell $45 worth of cocaine is now awaiting trial drugs, there will be violence. ·Poor, urban minorities Every time someone says \I sell drugs for the same can handle it\ about their reason that daddy and habits, another machine gunned mummy sell stocks • it teenager is gunned down for pays for the mercedes~ trying to pull his quota on the _ wrong side of the avenue. In case any()ne hasn't n<;>ticed, Union is a predominantly well-to-do, white campus. It is of sincere hope that the recent drug raids in our area cause enough · incon:venience to the casual abuser here to stop tJ1e chain of death which filters down in with a bail of $25,000: In 14 states, if you are arrested for drug -related offences, you will lose your license. These two examples can happen here, and while one may be able to conceal a forty-five dollar a week habit, a twenty-five thousand dollar bail is another story. Goodbye -college, goodbye grad school, _hello, officer. , Thi$ ,is just the beginning. States are getting serious about their, enforcement policies, and share the attitude which Bush convocated earlier this month-- \ (If you sell or do drugs) ... you will be caught.\ The message was hard hut the message was clear. The U.S. is going to win this war, so watch out. Of course, there IS oppositi~n. TI1ere always will' be. But with opposition, there is also ~ope. J,\1:ost are re,!ldy to accept the challenge, but there are ·some who.· cannot be helped. Bush's fire may not sound kinder and gentler, but it has to be fought. One idea is going back home to the family. Here at school; we all really have no family to help us through the war. However, we have our friend~ here, which in some cases, is better. Tom Bisset echoed this idea in last Sunday's Times Union, stating \ .. .I know 'it can be done in small groups.\ A small group can be two people-- if you want it to be. You just have to care. From ... Washington to Schene~tady, it's up to us. Law School Forum To Be Held In NYC Conrtesy of Law School Admis.si()n Council Prospective law students will have an opportunitY' to talk one-to-one :with representatives of more th3ll 100 law schools at the sixth annual La'W School Forum to be held in New York City. The Forum is cle,si_gned to provide up-t{)-date inJ.;ormation about law school admission policies and financial aid to a broad spectrum of prof;pective applicants. In addition to talki11g directly with law school repres;entatives and obtaining a.d mission materials and catalcgues, all Forum participants will have a chance to view a videotaped program about the Law School Admission Test (LSA T) , the Law School Admission Council's national admission exam. Other videotapes suggest key discussion topics to pm:sue with law school representatives. Particular attention has been given to the needs of minority group members and to career opportunities available to law school grad11ates. The free, twQ-day recruitment event, scheduled October 6 and 7 at the Vista International Hotel, three World Trade Center, is sponsored by the Law Sch()ol Admission· Council and the participating law schools, all a}}proved by the American Bar Association. \The Law S\ch(}ol Forum presents an exc~llent opportunity for people who are considering legal education and careers in law. Realllenefit can be derived from spe11ding time and effort gathering firsthand information about law schools- · what admission credentials are expected at specific law schools, what individual law schools have to offer~ and what ·career opportunities are available in the pr()fession,\ acco:rdling to Be-th Cobb O'Neil, LSAC Associate Executive Director and LSAS Vice President-Council.Affairs. With 25 percent of applicants between the ages of 26 and 32 and another 11 percent between 33 and 40 years old, the Forums provide an important opportunity for people considering a career change. Of the more than 5,000 persons attending th~ Law School Forum in New . York City last fall, 80 percent indicated they were employed full- or part-time and over 30 percent said they were. members of a minority group, according to O'Neil. The Law Scltool Forum has been scheduled on Friday, October 6 from noon to ·7 p.m. and on Saturday. October 7 from 10 a.m. fo 3 p.m., in order to accommodate a broad spectrum of prospective applicants. \The Forums provide the optimal setting to gather quality. law school information at one time and place from those who know the facts - admissions deans and directOrs, faculty, students, and alumni,\ O'Neil said. Other Forums will be held this fall in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago and Los Angeles. For further information on the 1989 Law School Forums, contact Law Services, P.O. Box 63, Newtown, PA 18940- 0063, (215) 968-1120. New York La.w School Forum October 6-7, 1989 Boston University University of Bridgeport Brigham Y()ung University University of California, Berkeley Indiana University, Bloomington University of Iowa John Marshall I.aw School Lewis & Clark College Louisiana State University Loyola Law School, Seton Hall University South Texas College of Law {Jniversity of Southern Calif.ornia Southwestern University Vista lntermational Hotel PARTICIPATING LAW SCHOOLS (as of Aug;ILSt 25, 1989) Law Schools hi New York State .-\lbany Law Scltool Brooklyn Law Scilool Benjamin N. CarciOZ() School of Law City University ~f New York Law Sch.ool at Queens College Colurnbi;:t Univenity Cornell Law Scltool' Fordha\m Law Sch.ool Hofstra University New York Law School :-Jew York University Pace U ni v.ersit:y \ St. John's Uni.vers1ty State University of New York at Buffalo Lai.V School Syracuse C ni·versity Touro College Other La:w Sclio!l}l.s t \niversity of Aicroll A mer ic::m Unive1sity Arizona State UJt.iversity l\niver<:ltv of BaDtimore · £l.J;con College Law Sc~o,al University of California, Davis University of California, Los Angeles Cali:fornia Western School of Law Capital University C:Jse Western Reserve University Catholic Ufliversity University of Cincinnati Cleveland State University University of Colorado University of Connecticut Creighton University Cumberland School of Law University of Dayton Unive~sity of Denver University of Detroit Detroit College of Law Dickinson School .of Law Drake University Duke University Duquesne University Emory University Franklin Pierce Law Center George Washington University Georgetown University Golden Gate University Hamline University aarvard {)njversity University of Houston University of 1llinois . . Illinoi.!J Institute. 0£ Technology Los Angeles Loyola University, Chicago Loyoia University, New Orleans Marquette University University of Maryland McGeorge School of Law University Of Miami University ·Of Michigan University .of Minnesota University of Mississippi New England School of Law University of North Carolina Northeastern University North.ern Illinois University Northwestern University Notre Dame Law School Nova University Ohio Northern University Ohio State University University of Oregon University of Pennsylvania Pepperdine University University of Pittsburgh ':Rutg~rs University, Camden Rutgers University, Newark St. Louis• University St. Thomas University University of San Diego Univ~rsity of San Francis~o Santa~ Clara University . ~ -•'i< -~· --- .......... _ .. Stanford Law School Stetson University Suffolk University Temple University University of Tennessee University of Texas University of Toledo Tulane University Valparaiso University Vanderbilt University Vermont Law School Villanova University Wake Forest University Washington and Lee University Washington University Wayne State University West Virginia Univ.ersity Western New England Col·lege Whittier College Widener University William Mitchell College of Law Yale Law School Participating Organization Council on. Legal Education Opp.ortunity . ' I, i L r· ' . !' : ) . ; ',I \' :; '· i ' I [. 1 ., .. i i t J

·, '. ' : . ( l '! :; l ., ' .i 11 I I CONCORDIENSIS, Septembe-r 21, 1989 Page 3 Security ·PersonDel Ask For Campus Involvement A Decade of Morris Comes To A Close Continued from p.age 1 The repcrt marks the beginning of the \TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS\ campaign .sponscred by the Security and Safety Depart- ment. The department reported that one of the biggest problems on campus i& propped doors in· dormitories. Last· year the Security Department began a student patrol to check doors of the dormitories. Between J anuaty 19 and June 4, 1989 during 319 working h()urs. this special patrol remarkably unpropped 660 doors. This figure does not include the times that regular security perscnnel unpropped doors. The report issued by the Security and Safety Department fists measures ·that all students should take to make this campus safe for all of the students: 1. AI ways l()ck your suite room door. 2. Always carry your dorm key with you. 3, Do not let unknown people enter the dorm. Ask who l;hey are and what they are doing in the donn-then call security with the information. 4. Don't walk or jog alone, especially off campus or at night. 5. Don't venture into ~n unlit area; that may be a shortcut to disaster. 6. Keep your room drapes shut, windows shut and locked and leave a light on in the rootn when it's unoccupied. \By not becoming part of the solution you become part of the problem!\ the report says. Also, the report stressed that students shou19 report incidents as soon as they occur. If an incident is not reported, tile Security and Safety Department cannot plan strategjes to counteract the problem. In addition, the Security and Safety Department has recovered several items. Due t() no teports of the items being stolen, they will be returned kl the thief. In conjunction witll the report, the Security and Safety Department comPiled a list of incidents that occurred last year: Vandalism ........ ~ ...... , ....... 254 Theft. •o, ••.•••••••••.••••••• ,,., ••••• 193 Assault.: .......................•.. 18 Fiarassment ....................... 32 Trespassing . . .. . . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . 88 Suspicious/Undesirable Person .................. u •••••••••.•••.•••••••••• 23· Disorderly Conduct.. .......... 20 Annoyance/Obscene Telephone Calls ............................... 1 rJ.. Fires ...... N···············CI····-··:!·18. UNION COLLEGE SECURITY AND SAFETY TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS - WORKSHOP SEMINARS SCHEDULED !- TUESDAY., SEPTEMBER 26, 1969 7:00PM • SOCIAL SCIENC~S BOOM 016 TARGET GROUP' ALL FEMA·LE OFF CAMPUS RESIDENTS SPONSORED BY: UNION COLLEGE SECURITY AND SAFETY DEPARTMENT AND DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE SCHENECTADY POLICE DEPA!lTfiENT AND THE RAPE CRISES SERVICE. 2- THURSDAY, SE:PTEME>ER 28, 1!'169 7:00PM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM TP.RGET GROUP' fi.LL UNION COLLEGE STUDENl'S SPONSORED BY: IJNIQN COLLEGE SECURITY AND SAFETY DEPARTMENT AND DEAN Of STUDENl'S OFFICE IN ASSOCIATION WITH THE SCHENECTADY POLICE' DEPARATMENT AND THE RAPE CRISES SERVICE. 3- . DATE: AND ACQUAINTANCE RAPE PROGRAMS AND BROCHURES ARE IN PLANNING STAGES. ~ 9-4 9-4 9-4 9-4 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-5 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-6 9-7 <i-7 9-7 9-1 9-7 9-7 9-8 9-8 9-9 9-9 9-9 9-i.o 9•10.- lteported Security Incidents for Week of 9/4-9/10: ..:illlL LOCATION 12:05 AM Zeta Beta Tau 7:18 AM Greenhouse 5:58PM: West college 10:09 PM: Raymond lot i: 11 AM: Edwards '9:00AM: South Col. 11': 00 AM: North .Col. 11:00 AM: North Col. 11:15 AM North Col. 12:47 AM: Edwards 5:01 Pt-f Sigma Phi 6:35 Pt-r College Center 7:15 PI{ Security Lot 7:31 P!l South Col. 7:57 PM J<appa Alpha . 8:24 PI{ Security office 1: o·2· AM Phi Delta Theta 1:44 AM Silliman Hall 2:12AM Achilles Rink 2:40 AM Richmond 5:51 AM Security Office 10145 M Psi !Jpsilon 6:42 PM Kappa Alpha 10:07 I'N south Col. 2:05 AA ~est campus 2·: 12 AM !Hckok lot . I·NCIDENT Urtd~sirable at social event. Vandalism - broken window. Pizza delivery person going room to room - warned off. ·Theft - stereo stolen from car. Theft from student's room. Water balloon thrown at car. Student's ear broken into. Student's car broken into. Student's car broken into. Missing wallet reported. Missing bicycle reported. Hit and run - vehicle damage. Auto accident - manor damage. No Hot water -·maiht not;,fied. Theft - radio stolen. Missirtg vehicle repOrted,xecavei False fire alarm - ~ine issued. Break-in attempt - no entry gair Training room cart found ln· steam.hole. Replaced. Undesirables on fourth floe>r. Report of known theif lea.ving area .of college. SPD notified. Fo~low up. C>n theft rport, Follow up on theft report. Safety hazaJ;d - ear leaking gasol·ine. Moved. Fourth pull, box ac·tivation. Unknown person entering dorms causing f.alse fire alarms. Report of vandiUism to cars. 4: 4 B AM F'ox entry Vandaiism .to winC!,ow, 5:10 AM !lew Entrv Rd Vandalism to road block. 11:~2 AM Dalta Poita Delta Theft reported. 4:30 PM ·Coilege Center Fire hazard reported. 3:05 AM Silliman !I: 04 AM \fest Col. 9:03 AM 'l\ieldhouse 4:51 Pi>l Siue Gat.e ll •. 18· PM A.lpha Deita P,M 1 , 4 2 AM kaY!llond 3:03 .AM r.mnont Students on roof. Food Service reports theft. Break-in reported. Undesirables advised off. ·False fire alarm - fine i ssuec vandalism - broken windo~. Vandalis~ - east stair/porch c . Weapons or Fireworks .......... 8 Animal Problems .................. 8 Drug/Alcohohelated incidents l*••a ll•lei'IIIIIIIQ.III'IIIII'I 11110<11111 5* Sex related incidents ........... 4* Ethnic related incidents ....... 1 * Rape (off campus) ............... 1 * These are separate incidents and do not indicate mere involvement with listed issues. As well as these reported incidents, there were 5402 escorts and 5040 room accesses not including R.A.'s. Of all the incidents on campus the Schenectady Police came only 15-20 times. Paul Mantica, head of Security, explained \the incidents are not reported when they occur,\ therefore the Security office cannot do anything to arrest the person(s) because the suspect has disappeared. The Security .and Safety department works very closely with the Schenectady Police in investigations when events occur. The report emphasizes that the Security and Safety Department is available 24 hours a day 7 <Jays a week. They ask that you call them immediately when an incident occurs. They also wish to remind the campus that the escort service is available. If not abused, it will be able to perform its proper function. It is not a taxi service, and \when · you abuse . it you defeat the system.\ The report concludes please remember that each of us is a potential victim and if we each follow simple rules for .safety and security we can impact favorably by reducing that potential- \TOGETHER FOR A SAFE CAMPUS.'' Continued .from page 1 start of an Educational Studies program, in which students can become certified to teach at the secondary school level; and th<t addition of 10 faculty members. The College expanded its overseas exchange programs to · China, England, Japan, and: Russia; introduced Japanese language courses; increased summer research opportunities for students and Capital District teachers; expanded its M.S. and M.B.A. programs; began a joint M.S.-M.D. degree program with Albany Medical College; added East Asian and Women's Studies programs; began summer programs for young people. such as the College Experience and Summerskill;. and added a Writing Center. In 1987, Union eliminated the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) as. a requirement for prospective students, an action that gained considerable national attention. .The changes to the campus include the renovation and expansion of the College Center and AI umni Gym- nasium; renovation of the Arts B ullding and Becker Hall, the admissions ()ffice; the addition of Frank Bailey Field, an all- weather athletic field and track; restoration .of the Whipple Truss Bridge, a national historic civil engineering landmark; expansion of the computer facilities, including a campus network; renovation of Old Chapel to provide seminar and office space; and con- struction of an engineering laboratory. There also has been significant landscape work, both in Jackson's Garden and throughout the campus. During the decade, the CoHege~s endowment increased from $30 million to $90 million. The Campaign for Union, a major fundraising effort, reached S50 rnillion- $12 million more than its original goal. The College received major grants from many national foundations, including the National Endowment for the Humanities and the National Science Foundation of Wash-ington, D.C.;. the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation of New York; lhc W.M. Kcck Foundation of Los Angeles; the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation of Chicago; the Charles A. Dana Foundation of New York~ and the Pew Memorial Trusts of Philadelphia. John Selwyn Morris was born in 1925 in Tonypandy, Wales. He earned a B.A. degree at the University College of .South Wales and Monmouth- shire at Cardiff and both B.A. and M.A. degrees from Cambridge University. He obtained his M.A. degree in philosophy from Colgate , University and earned a doctoral degree in the philosophy of religion from Columbia University. He became the 16th president of Union College in 1979. At the same time, he assumed the title of chancellor of Union University, an association of five autonomous institutions in the Capital District. New Director of College Center Select,ed By CHRIS ANDERSON After earning a Bachelor of Allen at The Johll Houseman Arts degree in English ftom Theatre Center in New York Union in 1976, Bloomrosen City in 1988. He was also Earlier this· month, Lee went on to pursue a Master of Stage Manger for T h e Bloomrosen was chosen to Fine Arts degree in Theater 'laming of the Shrew and succee<l Jerri Clark as director from the CalifoFnia Institute of The Importance of Being of the College Center and the the Arts in 1978. Earnest both of which were Student Activities Office at The new appointee was a performed in New York City as Union College. Blootntosen director and stage manager for well . comes to the College as a various theatrical productions. Bloomrosen and -his wife previous member of the Fine Bloomrosen directed I Can't Jody Stollmack, also a Union Arts Department at Fairleigh Imagine Tomorrow by College gradt~ate (1978). are Dickinson University in Tennessee Williams and currently living in Madison, New Jersey. Death Knoc:ks by Woody Schenectady. Bloodmobiles will come to Union College on Wednesday, Oct. 4; Thursday, Oct. 5; and Friday, Oct.' 6. The bloodmobiles will be held at Fox Lounge in the Fox House from 11 :30 am to 5:30 pm each day. · Sponsoring groups are: KAPPA SIGMA, PHI GAMMA DELTA, and DELTA GAMMA. Why should you bother to donate blood? What's in it for you? To be perfectly honest there's nothing in it for you. It won't give you a better grade, make you more popular, or even help with your career aspirations. Donating blood, however, is one of the very few things left that is done out of complete seHiessness. Hundreds of area hospital patients need blood to get better. Blood is a medicine th_at cannot be manufactured. The patient in Ellis Hospital, who 2 clays ago, used ten umts of blood for gastrointestinal bleeding will be eternally grateful to the indi~iduals .~ho took one hour out of their day to donate blood. That one. tlour turned 1nto a life- saving hour.\ Donor sign-up tables will be located in the College Center_ !=or appointment, call contact persons: Keith Bemis. 374-3239 .(KAPPA SIGM~) Steve Silverman, 386-4170 (PHI GAMMA DELTA) Amy Joslin, 386-4373 (DELTA GAMMA) OR stop by Room 408, College Center ·' I I

. Page 4 CONCORDIENSI$, September 21, 1989 Music :Professar Wins International Composers Campelition College Appoints New Director of Campus Operations By JON COLES Winter Sun, S11mmer Rain is also one: ()f several · Hilary ·Tann, Ass()ciate c<>rnpositions writteii by Tann Professor of Music at Union, tha.t has l>een accepted for shared first place honors With a j>ublication by the Oxford Dutch composer at the Un.iversity Press .. National Concert Hall A commissio11 f:rom the Composers Competition in Welsh Arts C<lullcil in 1986 Dublin, Ireland last month. e11abled Tantt t<l W'ri1e Winter Tann, a Welsh composer, Su11, Summ<er Itaim. It has was selected from among b~n perfoinled,b:y tlu L<>ndon- numerous composers from the b~ed Lontano E11semble and in By JOHN GONCALVES, JR. Last month the College appointed Thomas F. Smyth to replace Jack Hill as director of Campus Ope:rations. Hill, of Clifton Park, recently retired following the 1988-89 academic year_ . · Smyth's ne\' responsibilities include the administration and management of the Col·lege's . physical plant, including .building m~intenance and renovation, c~stodial services, : grounds, central utilities, and . safety and security. · Smyth was formerly an assistant administrator of St. · Professional Studies degree in Health. Care Administration from C.W. Post College in 1978, a Master's degree in . special education from . - Fordham University in 1975, and a Bachelor's degree in History from Manhattan College in 1972. Among Smyth's new responsibilities are the administration an<J management of the Collegets physical plant .• Smyth is a member of Pi Alpha Alpha,. the national honor society for public affairs and administration, and of the Vincent's Medical Center. He American College Health CaFe received a Master of , Executives. United States, Great Britain, several U.S. dUes including Australia, Germany and the l'lew York. The .composition Netherlands. was also petf()I:rned at Union Kap:pa Sigma Receives National Aw,ard Tann's winning composition College on N(lvenber 'O, 1987 was titled Winter Sun, for AmericmMusiC:Week. Summer Rain, and will be Tann has been a member of performed from August 4 to tile Union College faculty October 20 during the since 1980 at:ld h:()lds two Lunchtime Concert Series . graduate degreesfi()lllPrinceton sponsored by the National · University. Te~nn wtts also the Concert Hall. The theme of the ' fi:rs t woman to g;rad11ate from series is \Women Composers,\ . tile University of Wales, and features music written by : C.ardiff, with a FitiSt Class W{)men from the 12th to 20th . H<Jnours Bacbelbrs. Degree in centuries. · Music. Courtesy <lf Mitchell B. Wilson . Charlottes'Ville, VA-- The Delta-Tau Chapter of Kappa Sigma Fntemity at Union C()llege has lleen selected as the 1988-1989 recipient of the Kappa Sigma Frater~ity Community Service Award. The award wa:S presented to the. State Of The Union By DAVE COHEN 011 January 1, 199(). 1'he most imJXJrtant of thes~ la:ws raises The 'Union College Student . the ~erving of alc()h<.>l to those Forumhasstartedanotheryear. ·under twe11ty from a This column is designed to misdemeanor offense to a keep the students aware of the · fel()ny offense. 'Titese new laws decisions of the forum and the • also impose very ~tiff penalties issues being discuss·ed. to minors wllo p<Jssess and Although it is early in the C()nsume alwbol. The concern year, there is already one major onr these new l:CI\l'YSc is going topic that the Union College to require serio11s action on the community must begin to part of the administration as discuss. This topic concerns well as the st11de~ts. This issue several receqt New York state · will have a lasting effect on the laws, concerning the use of . S()cial climate ~f Union alcohol, that will go into effect College. Anyone wl'i() wishes to voice the~r concerns and ideas is enco11raged to attend student forurn meetings and contact their class representatives. In other news. the student forum is looking for students to fill some v-acant committee positions. l'here is also an upcoming election for a Junior class represenltative which will be held on Friday, September 29. Those wllo are interested can pick up information in room 410 of the College Center. BRITISH MARSHALL SCHOLARSHIPS finance young Americans of high ability for a degree in the United Kingdom in a system of higher education recognized for its excellence. They are tenable at any British university and cover two years of study in any discipline, at either undergraduate or graduate leve·l, leading 1o the award of a British university degree_. Applications available at Financial Aid Office. Zonta Amelia Earhart Fellowship Awarcis, annual grants to women for graduate study in aerospace-related seiSin~~ or er~g~neerir.g, .are. offered ann~ ally ~r Zo~ta lnterntional, the world-wide dass1hed serv1ee ~rganzahon of execut1ves m hus1ness and the professions. Qualifications f()r the Fellowsbip:s are: . . . . • an undergraduate degree preparatory for adva11ced study and research 1111' a quahfymg area of science or engineering; • a superior academic record and evidence of p.otential; • an acceptance by an institutbn offerin~ fullr accredited graduate courses and degrees in aerospace-related scienc:es .and eng1neer~n~.. . Application materials and iriforrnation aoout the Fellowships are available from: ZONTA lNTERNTIONAL 557 W. Randolph Street Chicago, IL 60606-2284 USA (31 2) 93()·.5848 Telex: 19()200 UT f~::x: (312) 930-0951 - officers of the Chapter on July · 28, 1989 at the Kappa Sigma Grand Conclave held at the Peabody Hotel in ·Orlando, Florida. The Union ·College. Chapter · was selected out of a possible ·. 207 _ ~ollege and university , Chapters in the Community . Service Award competition. The award recognized the. Chapter members for outstanding service to their fellowman in the 1988-1989 · · academic year and for upholding the standards of their Fraternity and academic institution. Kappa Sigma Fraternity is a college men's social fraternity and currently ranks among the top five in North America. The Fraternity is represented on 207 college and university campuses and has 106 Alumni Chapters. The current membership of Kappa Sigma is 175,000. Online system Public Access ready for use The online public access catalogue to Minerva, Schaffer Library's automated system, is up for patron use. There ar~ two terminals available on each floor very soon. The software is a test version, and within a year we expect a major upgrade to the system that will result in online capability that is · more complete, more sophisiticated, and more efficient. Problems that are encountered by users should be take to the Reference Desk Staff for explanation. An important caveat: be sure to check the card catalog for older materials; not all of the Library's resources are yet in the online system. We hope you will all come to enjoy using the new system. Good Luck! The United States Institute of Peace invites qualified candidates to compete for three types of fellowships offered by the Institute's Jennings Randolph Program for International Peace. These fellowships enable outstanding professionals and scholars to undertake research and education projects that will increase knowledge and spread awareness among the public and policymakers regarding the nature of violent international conflict and the full range ·Of ways to deal with it peacefully. Individuals from a broad spectrum of backgrounds-higher education, government, diplomacy, international affairs, military service, law, the media, business, labor, religion, humanitarian af.fairs, and others-are encouraged to propose innovative, caref.ully conceived fellowship projects reflecting diverse interests, project approaches, and communication mediums. Stipends and other sapport are ordinarily provided for a one-year period beginning in September 1990. The program honors former United States Senator Jennings Randolph, who was instrumental in establishing the Institute. To obtain further information about the program, nominate a candidate, or apply for afellowlship, contact: Jennings Randolph Program for International Peace United States Institute of Peace 1550 M Street, N.W., Suite 700 Washington, D.C. 20005 .. 1708, U.S.A. Telephone: {202) 457-1706 FAX: (202) 429-\6063

.., CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 Not going h;ome for the Jewish ·High Holidays? . ' . Sept. 29-0ct. · 1 - Join the Film Page 5 Rosh ·Hashanah Committee -. I • October . 8·-9 Yorn Kippur Synagogue and Home Hospitality in the Schenectady community available If interested, contact ASAP Ira Gurland at 393-2145 or Carol Needleman at 438-3768 DEADLINE SEPTEMBER 26 SPECIAL LIBRARIES ASSOCIATION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 19~0/91 Collect Tickets Once Every Two Weeks for Free Admission To All Movies! Call Mike, at 6832 or Don, at 6877 For Information and to Sign Up 89.7 FM proudly presents: One $6,000 scholarship will be awarded by Special Libraries Association ior the academic year 1990/91. The award, to be announced in May 1990, is ior graduate study leading to a master's degree at a recogr;ized school oflibrary or information science in the United States or Canada. Preierencewill be given to those applicants interested in pursuing a career in speciallibrarianship. Eligibility is limited to msnority group members as defined by current guidelines of the US. Government. Special libraries provide research and ira formation services to business. industry, and government. Speclallibraiians are men and women trained in the theory and practice oi library or information science as well as the fundamentals or a particular subject iield. Specialists are needed in many organizations, among which are research institutes, newspapers, insurance companies, bani<s, law firms, hospitals and governmental LIVE FOOTBALL , agencies. Subjeet specializations may iraclude the social sciences. economics, 'the fine arts, engineering. and the physical and biological sciences. ELIGIBIUl'Y: QUALIFICATIONS: APPLICATIONS: Member oi a minority group according to the present guidelines or the U.S. Government. Cellege graduate, college senior or matriculated graduate library schoCJI student with an interest in specialli~rarianship. Applicant must be a citizen of the United States or Canada, · or submit e.'<~idence of becoming naturalized at the beginning ofthe awatd period. Definite interest and aptitwde for speCial library work. Financial n!!:ed. May be reqlleSted by writing to: Special Ubraries,~ociation Scholarship Committee 1700 18th Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20009 Applicaticr~s must be completed and returned by October.27,1989. Union vs .. Hobart Saturday, Sept. 23 1:00 countdown to Touchdown 1 :30 Kickoff . .. and at halftime a talk with Rich Romer Cincinnati Bengals Union '88 ,. I

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 ,. FEATURES Union 101: An Introductory Course To Union By LISA R. CHERANDE This class is a brief overview of what the freshman can expect to see in their next four years at Union College. If you have not pre-registered, registered,. and re-registered for this course, please do so at the field house. (You will know you have found its location by the aromatic stench emmiting from the trench just outside.) Upperclassmen: this is a freshman course only-- if you do not know the basics by now, you've done a good job of hiding in the past few years. Unfortunately, this course does not utilize text ·books and note taking, nor does it elicit letter grades. The only way to learn the material in this course is to live it! It is a pass or fail course. If you succeed, you will be a happy, well-adjusted student and if you do not, well, who knows? You may still be a happy, well-adjusted student. The first subject you will be studying is the subject of STUDYING itself. You will quickly learn that studying is a rare commodity at Union during the first three weeks of the term. If you enter the library on a typical sunny afternoon during the week, you will obseNe a few intently focused stu<tents. Those are seniors who are busily preparing for their senior theses' and graduate school applications. The remaining students you notice buried in the cubicle:~ and stretched on tile cozy chairs are underclassmen taking their mid-afternoon nap. Be careful net to interrupt them for they need every wink of sleep they can muster in preparation for tlleir evening activities (You will learn more about that subject in the latter part of the course.) In and around the fourth weel: of the term, the library will begin to get noisier as students begin to utilize the ALL NIGHT STUDY to catch up on the past three weeks of work before MIDTERMS. Of course, catclting up on half of a semester's work is not an easy t:tsk, and is not advisable unless you are one who can Sllrvive on a ft;Jw nights of lost sl~ep. My helief (which is lugely agreed. upon by the faeulty) is that one cannot aclequately learn material that was diffused over the colirse of thiee weeks ]n a. 24-hour period even if you are an academic Sllper hero. If you do choose the \pulling an all-nighter\ option, don't forget to try Jolt. It is double the sugar and double the caffeine! Also, order munchies early-- Domino's closes at 1:00 on weeknights. For those students that survive midterms, they have one or two more blessed weeks before the finals crunch. Just when you get back into the pace of things, the end of the term crawls up on you. Freshmen: this is an important point to remember. Even the most conscientious find that the term breezes by at hurricane rates after midterms. Please do not panic though because the academics at Union are managable. By the end of my freshman year the following academic standard was being expressed by my classmates-- \lf you don't do any work for a class, but show up for the midterm and final, you ean get a C, if you do some work, you will receive a B, and if you really ·work hard, A's are attainable.\ Of course, I have yet to figure out why so many students are on Academic W aming and Special Academic Warning if A's are attainable, B's are the result of minimal effort, and no one gets below a C except those who forget to go to the midterm and final. Most of the students for whom that academic standard is applicable are no longer on the academic standard at all. They do not survive the long winter until graduation. It is the bitter irony of Union Academics. The students who think that Union. is a breeze are blown right away on \Dean's Vacation\ all expenses paid! Let it be a lesson to you. Every myth has a grain of truth in it; but every myth also contains falsities, otherwise it would not be a myth :in the first place. Th~re are far too many freshmen who do not return for Fall term their sophomore year. If you learn anything from. this course, I hope it is not to believe everything you hear, unless it will keep you off of Dean's Vacation! The next aspect of this course I think would be a crime to dismiss as unnecessary is the Social Life. I'd like to preface this by saying that, as you are all well aware of, college is an academic institution and its primary purpose is · to educate its students, but a whole lot more happens at college than studying. The degree you will earn at the end of four years at Union will signify only one . r part of your education. The other patt will be gained from your day to day experiences. You will learn about how to deal with roommates who snore and maybe even roommates who are homesick. Yau will learn the ins and outs of West College Dining Hall. (As a side note, (luring the freshman year, tumor has it that the food in the Upperclassmen Dining Hall is better than the food in West. This is not true-- it is the same exact food, it is· simply eaten in a more agreeable atmosphere~ without PYX 106 blaring.) Additionally, you will learn that waking l,lp in time for Sunday morning bru.nch is well worth the possibility of suffering a hangover {because you can still go home and take a nap before dinner!) Brunch is the reward for a rough weekend cf social events. You will come to think that yo11 have learned how to budget yo11r time so that you can manage to . do aU your homework and still go to fraternity parties every night of tile week. B11t as you learned in tlle lesson on Academics, hopefully, this is all an illusion. On that matter, you Continu.ed on page 8 Union Revisited ELECTIONS FOR JUNIOR CLASS REP. By DESMOND WARD We are all back at Union and are looking forward to another year. Unfortunately, the sun still doesn•t shine in Schenectady but some of the same old hangouts are still around. Domino's is stronger than ever, the new bagel store is packed with Union College students, while Rupsi's is taking over the local night scene since Slapshots closed over the summer. Some of us are preparing for classes that either meet two or three times a week and are trying to find out where we can go on our off nights. The library, I am sure, is as comfortable as always while the temperature is constantly modified to the near perfect comfort level. The freshmen will soon learn, if they go to the library in the first term, that the temperature exceeds normal room temperature by several degrees. The ideal clothing for the library is aT- sbirt, shorts and no shoes. So, wlutis new at Union? Well, the Skellar shake that yo~ got for a dollar last year . has. doubled in price. You W(}n't find any extra potato cbips with your Dutch Hollow hamburger but it 'is still comforting to know that the la<.lies behind the counter wili take a few penaies from their \Tips\ cup so that you can have fewer coins when they giV'e you your change. Oh yah! I heard from a fre:~hman that President Morris is retiring and leaving Union. How come the freshman knew about his resignation before I did? During the orientation the freshmen were infom1ed about this before letters went home to parents and st\ldents. But the fact tllat Union sent out a yearly calendar of events and \mportan t dates is sig11ificant. This was the first year that many of us knew when to come to school. Last year, it was somewhat fru~trating a11d embarrassing when I had t<> call Union Information asking them when classes start. All in all, Union is still the same. Absolutely no freshmen under the age of 21 may be served alcohol on campus. We all know that, don't we? Beer trucks are still not allowed on campus, right? And we all feel comfortable not knowing where our $18,000 goes. I don't mean to be too bitter but it is great to see that the school has enough pride in renovating the Nott. I think those six 2x4's holding up eight of the sixteen sides of the structure will do the job. · See Mrs. Marra for Petitions on 4th Floor College CtrB 89.7 FM proudly pres·ents:_ LIVE FOOTBALL Un,ion vs. Hobart Saturday, Sept. 23 1 :00 countdown to Touchdown 1 :30 Kickoff . . . and at halfti nie a talk with Rich Romer Cincinnati Bengals Unio.n '88 r

r CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 Page 7 FEATURES Show Their Strength that this. cloud may be Greek houses to not only carry campus community with compelled to take from us. Greeks By ARTHUR HUDSON Because of the controversy surrounding the recent removal of Delta Chi and Delta Upsilon from their on-campus housing, a dark ominous cloud has been cast upon the reputation ·Of Greeks as well as the future of Greeks. Many people, both faculty and students alike, fear permanent. However, many out there charity events and faculty and administrators is a · If any member of a Greek Greeks feel that this negative community service projects, give-and-take type of organization is interested in thinking is able to linger only but to highly publicize them as relationship where each group writing articles on news because the positive well through t h e must acknowledge and concerning Greeks, for the contributions that Greeks make Concord i ens is a n d understand the purposes and Greek Corner portion of to campus life and the community newspapers. even goals of the other. The more Concordiensis, on a hi- community these contributions the T.V. stations like to run we, the Greeks, give to the monthly basis only, please arenottecognizedandtherefore segments on organizations that campus and community, and contact Arthur Hudson at 370- are not talked about. That is help out the community in let it be known by every one, 1822 or Concordiensis. why it is very important for some ways. Living ·in a the less others will be Soae Contributions and Charity Events from 1988-1989 Theta Deita Chi - sponsored a r-ac:quetball tournament to ·benefit the A:i:thritis Foun<:lati.on- ,..a.:ised SH>O -Chicken Wing ·Eating Contest for~thritis .Foundation •$120 - Tuck Ins to benefit the American ·c.ancer Society - $150 - Bowl .For ·Kids Sake to help Bi9 ·Ba:o~heJ;s/Biq SiSters .:$300 - Weekly volunteer v.eek at the 'l.oci3l Boys Club - Blood· D;-ive for lhe .American .Red C:ross - Helped build a. play.gr 0 und for tfie <:ommunity - Awarded the Collllll.unity Service Awat<l·, presented by Union Kappa Si~ :. Sponsored II Blood Drive on campus, .assi·sted in the promotion of the drive as well liS thoa recruitment of d<>nors. - Bottle Drive, Yhere el!lpty cans ,..,. being return and the ·· deposit money being donated to a .Boy Sco\lts of America troop for their merit bad9e pajllphlet l:ib:o::a:rv. - Assisted Circle 1( set up and pro,.ote the Circle K Special Ol~pics. . - Cleaned up the ·~nuel HalfYils;r Eil'<lse for the mentally disturbed in the fall and sprin9 - Oll'er 369 hrs.of illiinpoyer was donat-ed to these and other events and $232 ,-2& contributed·. Si(JJ!a Phi - Participated in Bowlathon to h~l~ Eig .Brothers/Big Sisters and raised $900, In 1958 and 1987,. ·tlle!' raised $750 and S60Cl· respectiilell,l in this event. - Sponsored a SIG-SAW, that rais~d: $diOO .for .the United wav Phi De~ta Theta - Won the Scholarship Award, a national award f·or excellence in. scholarship. - Sponsored the '\Mile of Money· and raised $~, ooo tor tbe Arthritis foundation. - Softball Marathon vbich raised $350 for the American ·cancer Society. Alvha Epsilon Pi - Doilatec1 $500 t\O thO! Bryan Cruinnes Fund (local boy in need of heart transplant). ~ Donated $363 to the American Association o! .Etheopian Jewry. - Donated $~15 with Detta Gamma to the Northeastern Ass~iation for the Blind. Delta Upsilon - Cleaned up a Schen~ady home (Rita Sanders) and helped to renovate the home i.ntQ a wellness center. De1ta Delta n .. lta - Sponsored a 51!. run in Centra~ Park which raised SB 00 for their national philant:hrophies, lilol!len' s Scholarship and Children's Cancer. - Sponsored a Smoke Out which raised $180 - Jail & Bail which raised $5,300 - Twistin by the Pool party which raised $1000 tor the Starliqht Foundation. - Give a day to the Schenectady Girl's Club - ·Won Panhellenic A'ifard for Co!nmuni ty Serv·ice Si(JJ!a ·Delta Tau - Sponsored such e~ents as tne M&H-A-THON, Puzzle-Grams and Ballon-A-Grams, and raised .$2320 that was contr1buted to their natio~al philanthropy, the National Assoc1at1on !or the Prevention of Child Abuse. - Won the Super Dance Contest by raising $800 for \ • s Kids • , fighting muscular dystrophy. - Won a national SOT award f·or being involved in the most eKtra-curricular activities. Delta GaiUia - Sponsored the lOth Annual Delta Gamma Olymp1cs ·tor S1ght Conservation and Aid to the Bllnd, .wb1ctl ra1sed $2100. - the Pledge Candygram ·Project, which raised $200 - Participated in the Phone-a\thon for Aid to the Bhnd - Received avards from Union College Panhellennic .honorinq Academic Achievement and .Extracurr1cular Act~vat~es GaJUia Phi Beta - Puts out tbe Greek Calendar which ratses $1000 for Cerebral Palsy - Participated with Delta Phi in a volleyball tournament that raises $600 - Performed the BalloC>n Launch at Homecoming in support ot the Arthritis Foundation and Cerebral Palsy. - Conducted a Food Drive tor the Salvation Army· ra1sed $100 - Won the S1lver Fork Award, a nat1onal award for the highest cum. average in their province. WANT TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF AI,R FORCE ROTC? What Is SP AA? SPAA is the Students for Political Awareness and Action. lt is a group on campus created to promote campus awareness of social and political issues. In other words, there are finally people out there _who wish to fight the apathy!!!!!! According to its constitution, the purpose of SPAA is: 1. To examine issues; international, domestic, or within this college, which affect us as Union College students and 2. To bring education and awareness ot these issues to the college community. year's election. Last winter, four delegates were sent to the 12th Annual Student Conference on International Affairs at Mount Holyoke College. Information was brought back concerning environmental awareness, which was presented to the s c h o o 1 d u ring our \Environmental Week\ held in the spring. Some members attended a New York State Legislature Environmental and Conservation Subcommittee Hearing which was followed by a letter writing campaign about some of our environmental concerns. Last spring we co- sponsored a two-day Leadership and Educational Empowerment W arks hop. We also sponsored a letter writing campaign and awareness table dealing with the tragedy of Pan American Flight 103, and what is being done in the legislature in the aftermath. SPAA also did volunteer work at the local nursery. This was followed by another letter writing campaign concerning the future of WIC, a federally funded program which provides food for disadvantaed single mothers and their children. ... ·NJt all colleges and un.ivel- sities .()frer Air Force Rare. If you want tile advanta@S of Air Force and~r school doesn't have the nror1~am you sti[ maybe able to participate. Ask about the \crosstOMl\ program. You may be able to take Air Force Rm:c at another college if:l }Wr area VVe have four- and 1\\u-~ programs that lead to an Air Force commission. \tlu may- aloo apply for a scholarship that pays some colle~ E%pellses,. :j)llls $100 tax free per academ- ic month. Coo.tac:t: MAJOR 11 f\11· SERA TI 518·:276-8024 ......... - ... - ~-=---;; ... _: ~ Leadership Excelleslce Starts Here (~ .... •. ...-:::: ...- • l. 1~~~·-r\'Cf~ ~· -7.· ~ 1.;/(•·l·!·!' ~.\1' ~,.,hml;. ~ .. ·,X. ~r\~ ~} ~fi~Jl~, '89 EXPO ·. Monday, September 25 Place: The College Center- Front E'ntrance Time: 1-4 p.m. Ralndate: Tuesday, September 26 Free Fried Dough - Free Lem()nade - FRISBEES - T-SHJRTS FOR SALE WELCOME NEW STUDENTS SPAA had a very busy, successful year, sponsonng various programs at Union. Last fall, we sponsored the production of American Pictures along with several other campus organizations and we are currently working on its return scheduled for early November. SPAA also· sponsored the \Know Your Candidates\ Night prior to last Support * Are .you confused about your sexuality? This fall several projects are in the workings. Aside from the return of American Pictures and the accompanying workshop, we will be holding a \Peace with Justice Week\ in the middle of October. We are also working on another recycling program to be instituted here at Union. During the past school year, SPAA has grown in numbers and stature. We feel that we have become a vital group on this campus, and have brought a great deal to the college community so far, and are very enthusiastic to continue our trend. We encourage anyone and everyone to come to our meetings and get involved. There is so much that has to be done, and SP AA firmly believes it can!! Group * Do you want to meet others who feel the same way as you, in a non- erotic environ-ment? * Would you like to find out about Gay Happenings in the Albany-Troy- Schenectady area? The Gay, Lesbian & Bisexual Support Group is a newly formed confidential group that is by students for students. If interested send a letter to: Support Group Student Activities Office 4th Floor C.C. All names & meeting times will be kept confidential! i.

Page s CONCOilDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 FEATURES Prerequisite For Freshmen Continued from page 6 will learn all about fraternities. If you are like most curious and socially eager freshmen, you will make it your point to visit each one before the term is out. Most of you will muddle over the decision of whether you want to join the Greek system. Some will find themselves vehemently opposed. Others will not be able to imagine college without a fraternity or sorority pledge pin to show for it. Some advice given to me when I was a puzzled freshman (l was one of those people for whom the statement \It's all Greek to me\ was really true) by an upperclass sorority member was to participate in Rush, but not to \rush\ into joining a fraternity or sorority without much deliberation. Good advice, I think, for those freshmen utterly uncertain about the Greek social life. At the time, choosing whether one was going to join the Greek system seemed like an all- important, life-determining decision, but as we all know, no decision in our life is irreversable or irrevocable. There is always an opportunity to rush as a sophomore or depledge once you have joined. Just remember, there is no right or wrong answers on that section of the test. Only a little more than half the campus participates in the Greek system. In the next four years, you will be learning so much that you won't even realize you are learning. For some people this· might be the first time they try a beer. For others, this will be the first time they don't have to lie about their age and pay to get their beer. As you settle into the social life, you will observe that it is the \in\ thing to go drinking four nights a week. Just remember it is not \in\ for the same people every night because different people have different schedules, permitting different times to relax and socialize. Therefore, you don't have to go drinking at Fiji on Monday night with Joe, at Smith House on Tuesday night with Mary, and at Chi Psi on Wednesday night with your roommate. At some point during your four years at Union most of you will do crazy things under the influence that you will regret the next morning (that is, if you wake up the next morning!) Silly as these incidents are 1 you will learn a great deal from them because you will form your opinions and values about life based on many of these social pressures and blunders. Hopefully, most will learn that moderation is the key to all aspects of life, not excluding, socializing and drinking. Of course, there are always some students who manage to go through four years without learning, but they usually are the ones who struggle to complete their senior year, write a res11me, and find a job. One final myth of the freshman year, that I'd like to include in my lesson is the ever-so-common \there is nothing to do on this campus but go to fraternity parties\ syndrome. You might have already said it yourselves. This is the myth of one half of the student population. The other half takes advantage of all the extra-curricular offerings. They join clubs, take part in campus events, attend the lectures, try area restaurants, watch athletic events, and even have their own parties! Don't be afraid to \just say no\ to a fraternity party to go to an event sponsored by the Social Alternatives Committee. Well, boys and girls, that is the conclusion of the · Introduction to Union College. I would like to personally welcome you to the wonderful world of Union College. It is a wonderful place to grow and learn. Remember all that you have learned in this class and you will survive. It is no myth ANNUAL FALL SQUASH TOURNAMENT Sign up NOW for the ANNUAL FALL SQUASH TOURNAMENT. Sign-ups are across from the cage in the Alumni Gym. -' Play will begin early in October. For more information, call SANDY VOHR at 377-2910 and leave a message. that much of what you hear from the upperclassmen is a myth, so keep your ears and eyes open in order that ym can form your own opinions about what goes on this campus. Good luck and have fun! See you at graduation for Introduction to Real Life 101 ! ! According to Dr: Spocl<, breathing can be hazardous to your children's health0 Air pollution is all around us and it hurts children mo~t. ·Kid:; inhnlc mon.: pollutants per pound than adult:;, and their length ofcxposurc is longer, which increases their risk ofpcnnancnt clamugc .. Additionally, children under 10 have an incrensccl rate of respiratory ' infections. When infections are coupled with irdtating air pollutants the damnge to young lungs is intensified. So do what Dr. Spack recommends. Call or write the Pllblic Information Ollicc of the Sierra Club and fincl out what you can do to help clear tlJG air. Public Information 730Polk Street San Francisco, California 94109 415/776\2211 IfY.ou can find a Macintosh · in tfiis ro9m, we llllght put one m yours. Free. In what -vvill surely he the easiest test of your intellect this term, Apple invites you to try v.inning a free Apple:Jl Madntosh.x.Plus personal computer merely by finding it in this drawing, . . We'll even give you a hint: It's not the table, the lamp, or the chair. Now you~re on your own. To register, look for contest details where Madntosh computers are sold on your campus. Oh, all right, we'll give you a hin.t for that, too: Look at the bott'Om of this ad But do it really; really fast. Because only one Macintosh is being given away on this campus, and it's going to happen soon. Soon, as in right away. Pronto. Quick-like. But hey; you can take a hint. •• Somebody's going to win a free Macintosh. Enter September 5th-September 22nd College Store © 1989 Apple Computer, Inc. Apple, the Apple logo, and MaCintosh are registered trade~ of Apple Computer, Inc. Illustration © i989 Matt Groening. One entry per person, please. Only fulltime students, faculty, and sWf are ellgib1e to win. .r

CONCORDIENSIS 9 September 21, 1989 Page 9 ***************************************************** * * : TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP i * * * * * * ~ Union College sophomores interested in government service at the ! ! federal, state, or local level are invited to apply for a 1990 Harry S. * * Truman Scholarship. ~ * * . Established by Congress in 1975, the Harry S. Truman Scholarship ! : Foundatiot;t operates an ongoing educational scholarship program * * designed to provide opportut;tities for outstanding students in the United : : States with potential leadership ability to prepare for careers in * * government .service. ! * . * In April 1990, the Foundation will award 92 Scholarships nationally. : : The DEADLINE for all 1990 applications is December 1, 1989. : ~ Union College can nominate three students for the 1990 competition. * * * * The scholarship covers eligible expenses up to $7,000 per year for the ! : junior year, the senior year, and two years of graduate study. lt * : To be eligible, a student must be a full-time sophomore working * * toward or planning to pursue a baccalaureate degree, have a B average ! ~ or equivalent, stand in the upper fourth of the class, and be a United * * States citizen or United States national heading toward a career in ! ! government. . ! ! Interested students should submit a letter of applicati.on, a statement ! t of . care~r pla~s; a list of past publi.c-service activities or other * * leadership posttlons, a current transcnpt, and a 600-word essay ! : d~scussing a public. policy ~ssue of their choice . to Prof. Charles * * Ttdmarch, Truman Scholarshrp Faculty Representative, . SS 216, by : * November 1. * * ' . * LA·NGUAGE TABLES MONDAYS: ·FRENCH, ;HEBRE'W, RUSSIAN, 12 :45-1! :45 TUESDAYS·: CHINESE, 11:30-12:30 WEDNESDAYS: GERMAN, JAPA'NESE,. SPANISH, 12:45-!; :45 THURSDAYS: ITALIAN, 11 :30- f2:30 . All Language Tables will meet in the U pperclass Diningroom in the College Center. .\*************'1i**************************************.._ ________________ __,_ w A .T s 0 N FELLOWSHIP APPLICATIONS DUE OCTOBER . 2nd See Pro,fessor Klein w.ith any question sa ~ ... ., ' ; ~ . .., ' ' . ' .

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS~ Septemb.e·r 21~ 1989 SCIE. NCE & TECHNOLO·GY -- . . Toxic Terroris.m: : . . Exporting· Love· Canal By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Governments around the world have recently begun acting to defuse a potential international time bomb. The conflict centers on increasing shipments of the developed world's industrial waste to Third World nations~ The attraction of Africa, Central America, and the Caribbean as toxic dump sites has emerged with tightening regulations on the treating and dumping of toxic wastes in Western Europe and North America. The cost of shipping toxic incinerator ash, sewage sludge, refinery tailings, and other wastes overseas can be dramatically less than the cost of treating them in the indu strial world. Over the past few years it has become increasingly difficult to lega11y dispose of wastes. It is now even becoming a problem to dispose of common household garbage. Landfills across the U.S. are closing, and it is becoming hard for towns to afford insurance on those that remain. Wastes are therefore increasingly being shipped overseas. The Environmental Protection Age11cy has been receiving a soaring number of official notifications about hazardous wastes that wili be shipped to the Third World. The agency recorded receiving 30 such notices in 1980, the first year it required them. After Congress tightened disposal rules the figure jumped to 465 in 1987. The agency received over 500 midway through 1988. However, although the EPA monitors toxic waste shipments, requiring a permit from the receiving country, no such notice is needed to export a wide range of other materials such as common garbage or untreated sewage. The increasing spread of advanced technology to the Third World further complicates the hazardous- dumping is sues. Peru is seriously considering building the Third World's first incinerator capable of handling . industrial was1es; Guyana recently rejected the idea. But incinerators raise their own environmental alarms- mainly concerning air pollution. They could also attract shipments to less technically advanced countries, where a breakdown could result in massive problems. The involved Third World nat'ions see the toxic waste trade as a source of much needed cash. In Africa, an aborted agreement to accept hazardous wastes from the United States and Europe would have earned Guinea- Bissau more than its entire gross domestic product. However, developing nations are increasingly unwil1ing to continue accepting wastes. For example, a freighter bearing toxic incinerator ash from Philadelphia sailed international waters for over a year looking for a dump site. Panama, the Bahamas, Honduras, and the Dominican Republic all rejected the ash. Haiti's Department of Commerce finally .agreed to accept the ash, but rescinded ther permit after being alerted to the hazruds by Greenpeace. By then thollgh, 3,000 tons of ash had been spread on Haiti's northern coast. Later tests revealed dangerously high levels of cadmium, arsenic, mercury, and dioxins at the site. Several U . .S. House representatives have condemned the dumping practice and have sponsored legislation in order to combat the problem. The Organization of African Unity, one of several international groups working to curb such shipments, has also condemned the practice on the African continent. On a variety of levels, other governments and regulatory groups. are moving to control the trade. The United Nations Environmental Program is pressuring western governments to reduce hazaradous-waste shipments and to explore different methods of disposal, but developed nations insist that exports remain an option. Also, the European Economic Community has recently adopted directives that will require waste handlers to notify recipient nations of what they will get. It is dear that the problem of exporting waste will only become increasingly worse unless specific regulatory measures are enacted. The problem of illegal dumping, into the ocean for example, also remains unsolved. Obviously, it is necessary that some solution be quickly found. Union College Gets $3001000 Pew Grant for Sciences A one million volt tandem Pelletron Accelerator that will enable Union College students to examine the nucleus of the atom is one of the instruments the college will acquire through a $300,000 grant from The Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia. This is the third major grant that has been given to the college by Pew Trusts, one of the largest philanthropies in the United States. \The accelerator can do a little bit of nticlear physics,\ he said. Peak said that the accelerator also will be used in experiments in which the properties of solid materials are modified by exposure to the energetic particles the accelerator can produce. He said such processes are used commercialy in improving the resistance of materials to wear and corrosion, in making new alloys and in tailoring the electrical properties of .semi- conductors. hands-on eJCperience in a field which has exploded since the development of the laser. The laser was co-invented by one of Union's gradua-tes, Gordon Gould, Class of 1941. \Modem optics is a billion-dollar-a-year industry,\ Peak said. The new optics equipment will consist of such items as a dye laser tunable to different colors, optical tables that will float on columns of air, and apparatus that concerts sound energy to light impulses. Fiber optics and holography instruments are among the other pieces of equipment. \An important part of our educational misssion is t.o Continued o.n P~e 11 ,.\ ' ,. ·\. -. ~ ., .•• ,, -- -v· '- EXPLORE THE GRAND :CANYON W·ITH NEW YORK STATE MUSE\JM' .·G:EOLOQISJ .. ,~i . ' New York State Museum geolo:gist, Aobe,rt: Fickles, will lead a walking tour of the Grano Canyon from October 21 thto.ugh 26. , · Fees are $830 per person .($795 for Museu~ Members) .. Pre-registration is required. CaH 518/ 474-5801 for information. · Tour participants win .examine in detail over a billion .... years of earth history revealed in the . canyon walls as they descend over 5,000 feat to the Colorado River. Highlights include th$ unusual flora and fauna of the Inner Gorge, and a hi.ke .along Clear Creek Trail with its spectacular views of tbe ri:ver. This is a must for the hearty adv.enture·r! This program is sponsored by the New York State Museum Associates, the Museum's membership group. Find out how yotJ. can become a Membe.r and enjoy discounts on this and other special tours. Call 518/ 474- 5801 weekdays for information. A Plateful of Qu·estions Weekly discussion series presents this week's question: \What D~ you Live For?'~ TUESDAYS 12:00 - 1 :00 PM AU welcome! Bri,ng your lunch to the 4th Floor Lounge of the . COLLEGE CENTER REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROF .. LEE The Civil Engineerin~ Department is conducting a reappointment review for Associate Professor Keen Lee. All m'3mbers of the college community who ·have knowledge of Prof. Lee's teaching,, professional activities, or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to the committee. Anyone who wan1s to provide input should contact Prof. Tom Jewell; Chairman of the Civil Engineering Department. The latest grant, which will be supplemented by funds from the. National Science Foundation and other sources, will aid the physics, chemistry and biology departments in purchasing several pieces of state-of-the-art equipment. The new accelerator will replace an aging 500,000 volt instrument already owned by the college. It can fire protons at atoms, exciting their nuclei. Professors and students can e;<amine the results and explore some of the structure of the nuclei, said Professor David Peak: of Clifton Park, chiarman of the Physics Department. Peak pointed out that Union is one of only a handfu:l of small U.S. co11eges that own accelerators. \This machine will help maintain a strong undergraduate research program,\ said Peak, who noted that among small colleges, Union is the fourth largest producer of students who go on to earn doctorates in physics. Watson Applications are due The Pew grant also will provide money for optics laboratories in physics that will enable students to get October 2 See Prof.- Klein

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Septemb_er 21, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLO·GY Toxic Terrorism: EXPLORE THE GRAND CANYON WITH NEW YORK STATE :MUSEUM GEOLOGIST Exporting Love Canal New York Statf:l! Museum geolog:ist, Robert Fickles, will lead a walking tour of the Grand Canyon from OctOtber 21 through 26. By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Governments around the world have recently begun acting to defuse a potential international time bomb. The conflict centers on increasing shipments of the developed world's industrial waste to Third World nations. The attraction of Africa, Central America, and the Caribbean as toxic dump sites has emerged with tightening regulations on the treating and dumping of toxic wastes in \V estern Europe and North America. The cost of shipping toxic incinerator ash, sewage -.Judge. refinery tailings. and other wastes overseas can be dramatically less than the cost <lf trcatmp: them in the indu>~nal \\:orld. (her t l1c past few years it ha~ hecomc increasingly rliftL·•dr ,., kgall\· di'f\\'t' •'f \' .. t~r,.,. lr '' n<~\\ l'\ ('n h·•_l•!n.ll.c' .ll'l''bklll t·• di'I\\L~ ;, f .. ,.-,~~~·;-.: ''1 h, qf,~'}H -~r! f ~1rb.1~~:~·. ! :l'l•!t.,IJ\ ,L·r:·,, •!:,· l' .S ,tr~· l L \.~ill..:. ,1nd if 1-..: hc.'~~n1~c~~ ~~.!It: r!f 1 < •\\ !l• iO ;;j (,rei ln'.qr:t~':, )'\! ,.!1.\\'-' d1.!f r~·n1~ti~. :i fl\ ~r~_·r··:l'1'1.'.~Y !'L'in~·. 'hlpr't.'d (1\cr-.t:a'-. ThL' En\'inlnnwnr;rl l'r(,fL'i.'tion /\r.ency has hL'l'n rccei\ ing a soarinr number of official notifications about hazardous wastes that wili be shipped to the Third World. The agency recorded receiving 30 such notices in 1980. the first year it required them. After Congress tightened disposal rules the figure jumped to 46) in 1987. The agency received over 500 midway through 1988. However, although the EPA monitors toxic waste shipments, requiring a pennit from the receiving country. no such notice is needed to export a wide range of other materials such as common garbage or untreated sewage. The increasing spread of advanced technology to the Third World furtller complicates the hazardous- dumping is sues. Peru is seriously considering building the Third World's first incinerator capable of handling industrial wastes: Guyana recently rejected the idea. But incinerators raise their nwn environmental alarms - mainly concerning air pollution. They could also attract shrpment:-; to less technically advanced countrie:-;. where a breakdown could reo.;ult in mas\ive prohkm'. The imr)hd Tl1ird w,,•lri n:ttinn' \.'l' liw ·~ ·\, · \\ :1' IL' rr;tdt.· .~ .. I ''·'urc:· (If Pl\:~' 1 1 n.__~L~dl·<i ;,···, .... t.~. In \! ~i~· .t ~u1 :~hr'rt.:·i ·t:: r ·~ . .-~:1,_' ri L' :tc,__ ~~i't ft..ll.trd,~c 1 i'- \\.J-...'.:~ fu_·,•n rt1:...~ \l,,\\V\cr. kv,'I•T:n,' r.:l'i,ln'- are in,·r~asrngly un\\illin~ to L·ontinue ~~-·,epting \l!astes. I'M example. a freighter bearing toxic incinerator ash from Philadelphia sailed international waters for over a year looking for a dump site. Panama, the Bahamas, Honduras, and the Dominican Republic all rejected the ash. Haiti's Department of Commerce finally agreed to accept the ash, but rescinded ther permit after being alerted to the llazards by Greenpeace. By then though, 3,000 tons of ash had been spread on Haiti's northern coast. Later tests revealed dangerously high levels of cadmium, arsenic, mercury, and dioxins at the site. Several U.S. House representatives have condemned the dumping practice and have sponsored legislation in order to combat the problem. The Organization of African Unity, one of several international groups working to curb such shipments, ha._<; also condemned the practice on the African continent. On a variety of levels. other governments and regulatory groups are moving to control the trade. The United Nations Environmental Program is pressuring western governments to reduce hanradons-\\'astc 'hipmcnt'i and t<' cxplm.: different :llcthorl-; of cJi,r(ls~tl. but ~L· \ ,']( jt.:cl r1:11i nns i r.\ i, t r h :1 t -''!'''\' L'r.uin an optior;. \!',•\, the' Ft;n\rt.·:m rc,ll1(ll11ic :>:·;mur.i~' h;is rc;:~·ntl'­ :td•·r'kd dir·.?cti\':?' th;it .... i!l rL·quirl· waqc handler' to notify r<:ipi~·•1l !Uf:('rJ·- •>f wh:H the; lt is cf·.:ar thJt the prohkm of e\porting waqe will only b<:come increasingly worse unless specific regulatory measures are enacted. The problem of illegal dumping, into the ocean for example, also remains unsolved. Obviously, it is necessary that some solution be quickly found. Fees are $830 poer person ($795 tor Museum Members). Pre-registration is requ:i red. Call 518/ 4 74-5801 for information. Tour participar:a,ts will examine in detail over a billion _years of earth history revealed in the canyon walls as they descend over 5,000 feet to the Colorado River. Highlights inc:lude the unusual f.lora and fauna of the Inner Gorge, and a hike alan~ Clear Creek Trail with its 1 spectacular views of the river. This is a must f!Q r the hearty adventurer! This program is sponsored by the New York State Museum .Associates, the Museum's membership group. Find out how you can become a Mem l>er and enjoy discounts on this and other special tours. Call 518/ 474- 5801 weekdays ffor information. A Plateful of Qru®$itH\On~ Weekly discussion se~rees preserots this we~!<'s question: .~w fiv t?Jl f{JJL Jl!JJJ-=lJziJ!UJJJr L: TUESDAYS 1 :OOJ PM All welcome! Bring your lunch to the 4th Floor Lounge of the COLLEGE CENTER REAPPOINTMENT REVIEW FOR PROF. LEE Union College Gets $300,000 Pew Grant for Sciences The Civil Engineering Department is conducting a reappointment review for Associate Professor Keen Lee. All m'3mbers of the college community who have knowledge of Prot Lee's teaching, professional activities, or college service activities are encouraged to contribute either written or oral testimony to the committee. Anyone who wants to provide input should .contact Prof. Tom Jewell, Chairman of the Civil Engineering Department. A one million volt tandem Pelletron Accelerator that wiU enable Union College students to examine the nucleus of the atom is one of the instruments the college will acquire through a $300,000 grant from The Pew Charitable Trusts in Philadelphia. This is the third major grant that has been given to the college by Pew Trusts, one of the largest philanthropies in the United States. The latest grant, which will be supplemented by funds from the National Science Foundation and other sources, will aid the physics. chemistry and biology departments in purchasing several pieces of state-of-the-art equipment. The new accelerator will replace an aging 500,000 volt instrument already owned by the college. It can fire protons at atoms. exciting their nuclei. Professors and students can exanUne the results and explore some of the structure of the nuclei, said Professor David Peak of Clifton Park, chiarman of the Physics Department. 'The accelerator can do a little bit of nuclear physics,\ he said. Peak said that the accelerator also will be used in experiments in which the properties of solid materials are modified by exposure to the energetic particles the accelerator can produce. He said such processes are used commercialy in improving the resistance of materials to wear and corrosion, in rnaking new alloys and in tailoring the electrical properties of semi- conductors. Peak pointed out that Union is one of only a handful of small U.S. colleges that own accelerators. \This maclline will help maintain a strong undergraduate research program,\ said Peak, who noted that among small colleges, Union is the fourth largest producer of students who go on to earn doctorates in physics. The Pew grant also will provide money for optics laboratories in physics tbat will enable students to get hands-on experience in a field which has exploded since the development of the laser. The laser was co-invented by one of Union's graduates, Gordon Gould, Class of 1941. \Modem optics is a billion-dollar-a-year industry,\ Peak said. The new optics equipment will consist of such items as a dye laser tunable to different colors, optical tables that will float on columns of air, and apparatus that concerts sound energy to light impulses. Fiber optics and holography instruments are among the other pieces of equipment. \An important part of our educational misssion is to Continued on Pa e 11 I , I Desperately Seeking Sqie~~tft~ters! ,, .. \ ' ' i ':1{(j',17', .. :;;:.:· ~\\·~\f\i t- ·~~<:\'· · ... «.. ',. ... .... . . . . .- ... Watson Applications are due October 2 See Prof. Klein I i

CONCORDIENSJS, September 21, 1989 S:CIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 1. E. ·F.· Deadli:ne •.• The deadline for proposals for the lnter,nal. Education Fo~nd~tioh . in two categories-- student-initiated res~ arch projects ,and \educationally innovative pr()j&Qt$\ is Monday., October 2, t9S9. Union College Professor -Begins Study of Physi·cian Assistant O:c.cupation PropOsals for ~tudent\i re~earch [)rojects mu$1 have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. T:he propOsals should be submitted to • the Dean's office (S100, Science & E:.ngineerihg 'Building) on ,, .. _forms available there. · Similarly, members of the ·college community who have \educationally innovaiive\ should sLJbrnit them 1o the same office :on forms available there. · Forms for Faculty Research Projects are alsc ~vailable in the Dean's Office (StOO). Guidelines with respe.ct to the I.E.F. are available in the Oean's Office .. Inquiries-about I.E.F., the guic:lelines, or the proposal deadline. should be directed to George Butterstein, Associate Dean .of Faculty .. When prepati11g budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally lim ita<! to $80.00 per d~y. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates a.v.ailable. Students who ar planning to do. interviews 11.1ust ·indicate that arrangeme11ts have already been made. If: your ·research includes work with human subjects then the proposal must· have preliminary approval from the Human Subject 'Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants .. SPECIAL LIBRARIES ASSOCIATION SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM 1990/91 Up to three 56,()00 scholarships will be awarded by- Special libraries Association for the academic year 1990/91. The awards, to be announced in May 1990, are lor graduate study leading to a master's degree at a.r.ecagnized school of library or information science in the United States or Canada. Preierer.~ce will be given to thQse applicants interested in pursuing a career in speciallibr;uiansilip. Awards are made witilcut regard to race, sex. age. religion, or ethnic backgtou111d. A Union College professor has begun w nationwide follow-: up study of tbe occupational situations and view of ,physician assis-tants under a grant from the Robert Wood Johns.o-n Foundation, Princeton, NJ. Terry S. Weiner is the principal investigator in a team of three professors that will examine. the Cl!:feer paths of 1,126 people who were studied in 1977 as students training to be PAs. The $49.681 grant to Union College for the research is the ftrst one Union has ever received from the foundation. Weiner, who is also associate d,ean of faculty at Union, will tale a sabbatical leave in the 1989-90 academic year to pursue the research. Biology professor George M. Butterstein of Charlton. will serve as assoc1ate dean in his absence. The study will examine the choice of work settings of the members of the Class of 1977. Among the issues to be looked at are the following: how PAs' ·career aspirations and role definitions now compare with those they had as new graduates, how well PAs have adapted to the emergence of managed-care settings such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and multiple-specialty clinics, how satisfied are they with their current relationships with other health care providers such as physicians and nurses, how . many have left the occupatin and why. and to what extent do they fill a primary care role. \The PA was established to deal with the growing perception at the time (the 1960's) that tbere were too few physicians and that physicians were increasingly uninterested in primary care,\ said Weiner. \Further PAs were one way to solve the growing problem of serving medically under- serviced areas-- communities without doctors, such as ghettos, rural towns and Indian reservations. \Today Weiner said, \PAs confront a different environment. Some experts believe that there are now too many doctors, not too few. Health care is increasingly provided by clinics and large groups, not solo physicians who might employ a PA or a nurse to deal with their overload. \This study,\ he said, \will examine how the P A has adapted to this new health care environment.\ Weiner, of Schenectady, said he expects that 600 or 700 of the Class of 1977 will respond to the team's questionnaire. He said the investigators also will use personal interviews to examine the questionnaire results in depth. Problems relating to women and minority PAs, those who have dropped out of the field, and those who have become physicians will probably be looked at more closely, he said. Fifty or sixty Capital Region PAs will be queried. Joining Weiner in the study are Eugene Schneller of Arizona State University, who is. a former Union College professor, and Reginald Carter of Duke University. Schneller Special libraries provide research .<~nd information services to bushuss, industry,.and government. Special librarians are- mer1 and ~omen trained in •tl\le ~~ryan~ practice of library or-information science as loVell as the tundamentals of a p2rt1cular subrectfield Specialists are. needed in many or~anizaticns. among whi_cil are research institutes. newspapers, insurance compani~. banks. law firms, ~ospi~ls and go..,ern~ental ~gendes. Subject specializations may include the soc1al sc1ences, etanom1cs, the fine an:s. engineering. and the ph'!Sic<JI and biological sciences. College Receives PEW Grant D EliGIBiliTY: QUALIFICATlQNS: APPLICATIONS: ·PLEASE POST CollEge graduates or college seniors. with an interest in speci<~llibrarianship. Work experience in a special library is helpl~.:~l. Applicant must be a citizen of the U11ited States or Canada. or submit evidence -of becoming naturalized at the beginning of the award period. , Definite interest and aptitudef«Jr special.library work. Good. academic record. Financial heed, May be ~quested by writing to: Spe<li:al Ubraries AssociatiOn 1700 18tl15treet. N.W. Wash~ngtcm, D.C. 20009 Appliocations ~ust be completed ancl'.retumed by Octollet 7.7, 198;9. {ULY 1989 Continued from page 1 0 acquaint. students with modern instrumentation,\ Peak said. The Chemistry Department will obtain an instrument called a Fourier-Transform Infrared. Spectrometer and a Macintosh computer that will replace a dispersive infrared system. The new equipment will be used to identify a substance, usually an organic compound, by determining what energies of infrared radiation are absorbed by it, said Professor Thomas Werner of FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE ••. The Subcoundl on Res.earch and Grants is now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Butterstein's Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals 1s October 2, 1989. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean. Butterstein. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human proposal must have preliminary approval Subjects Research Committee before it can Subcouncil or1 Research and Grants. subjects, then the from the Human be funded by the Schenectady, chairman of the Chemistry Department \This type of technology has completely taken over the old technology [dispersive],\ he said. \It is a crucial tool.\ The Biology Department will purchase a new JeiCo transmission electron microscope to replace a model that is more than 20 years old, said Associate Professor George Smith of Scotia, who oversees the college's electron microscopes. Smith said the new microscope provides a sharper image and increased penetration and magnification. It is also easier to use than the old microscope. \We can l()ok at thicker was the principal i11vestigator in the 1977 study. The team's work: has been preceded by a Capital Region pilot study by Dina Lee of Branford, CN, a 1989 Union College .graduate who did the work for her senior thesis in sociology. Lee is DOW living in Schenectady and is a researoh associate for the team. Weiner joined the Union College faculty io 1974 and served from 1978 to 1986 as chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and from 1983 to 1986 as chairman of the Division of Social Sciences. He had been a visiting instructor in sociology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, before coming to Union. Weiner received a doctorate and a master's degree in sociology from the Univerwsity of North Carolina in 1975 and 1972 respectively. He earned a bachelor's degree in sociology from the Cniversity of Illinois at Chicago Circle in 1970. Among his published articles are \Black Attrition in Physician Assistant Training Programs' in the Am e dean Journal of Public Health April 1981 and \The Black Physician Assistant: Problems and Prospects for a Minority Group in a New Health Profession\ in the Journal of Medical Education August 1978. The Robert W()od Johnson Foundation is the largest supporter of research on health care in the nation. It awards about $100 million in grants each year. e D materials and get more information from our samples,\ he said. · The Pew Charitable Trusts consist of seven individual charitable funds established between 1948 and 1979 by the sons and daughters of Joseph N. Pew, founder of Sun Oil Company. The Trusts support non- profit organizations dedicated to improving the quality of life for people and communities and encouraging personal growth and self-sufficiency. Grants are awarded in the areas of conservation and the environment, culture, education, health and human services, public policy, and religion.

CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 Page 11 SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY I. E. F. Deadline ... The deadline fer prCJposals for the Internal: :Education Foundation in two categories-- student-initiated research projects and \edwcati<lnally innovative projects\ is Monday, October 2, 1989. Union Colle·ge Professor . Begins Study of Physician Assistant Occupation Proposals for stuclent..,in~iated research projects must have the written approval of' a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the ,projel:t. fhe proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S 10('), Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, membefs of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on fmms available the.re. Forms for Faculty Flesearch Projects are also available in the Dean's Off~ice (S i ()0). Guidelines with ~espect 10 the LE.F. are available in the Dean's Office. lrnqu i~ies about I.E.F., the guidelines, or the proposal deadline s.hc11ICI be directed to George Butterstein, Associate Dean of .Fact:ilty. When preparing budgets, please remember tl:tat per diem rates are normally limited to $80.00 per day. Transportation. costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students vvllo ar planning to do interviews must indicate that arrallg~rneflts have already been made. If your ·research includes Vl()rl< with human subjects then t~e proposal must have prelimina.r.Y' approval .from the Human Sabject Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. SPECIAl U B RARI ES ASSOCIATION SCHOlARSHIP PROGRAM 1990/91 Up to three SG,OOO scholars.hips Vlill be awarded by Spe<:iallibranes AssociatiOn for the academic year 1990/91. rhe a\\'irds., to be announced in May 1990, are for graduate study leading to a master's de~ree ata re<ognized school of library or onrormation science m the United States or Canada. Prererence woll be given to those applicants interested in pursumg a career on specoaJ librananship. Awards are made without regard to race, sex, age, religion, or ethmc l>;oc3<ground. A Union College professor has begun a nationwide follow- up study of the occupationa1l situations and view of physician assistants under a grant from the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Princeton, NJ. Terry S. Weiner is the principal investigator in a team of three professors that will examine the career paths of 1,126 people who were studied in 1977 as students training to be PAs. The $49,681 grant to Union College for the research is the first one Union has ever received from the foundation. Weiner, who is also associate dean of faculty at Union, will take a sabbatical leave in the 1989-90 academic year to pursue the research. Biology professor George M. Butterstein of Charlton. will serve as associate dean in his absence. The study will examine the choice of work settings of the members of the Class of 1977. Among the issues to be looked at are the following: how PAs' career aspirations and role definitions now compare with those they had as new graduates, how well PAs have adapted to the emergence of managed-care settings such as health maintenance organizations (HMOs) and multiple-specialty clinics, how satisfied are they with their current relationships with other health care providers such as physicians and nurses, how many have left the occupatio and why, and to what extent do they fill a primary care role. \The PA was established to deal with the growing perception at the time (the 1960's) that there were too few physicians and that physicians were increasingly uninterested iiJ primary care,\ said Weiner. \Further PAs were one way to solve the growing problem of serving medically under- serviced areas-- communities without doctors, such as ghettos, rural towns and Indian reservations. \Today Weiner said, \PAs confront a different environment. Some experts believe that there are now too many doctors, not too few. Health care is increasingly provided by clinics and large groups, not solo physicians who might employ a PA or a nurse to deal with their overload. \This study,\ he said, \will examine how the P A Ius adapted to this new health care environment.\ Weiner, of Schenectady, said he expects that 600 or 700 of the Class of 1977 will respond to the team's questionnaire. He said the investigators also will use personal interviews to examine the questionnaire results in depth. Problems relating to women and minority PAs, those who have dropped out of the field, and those who have become physicians will probably be looked at more closely, he said. Fifty or sixty Capital Region PAs will be queried. Joining Weiner in the study are Eugene Schneller of Arizona State University, who is a former Union College professor, and Reginald Carter of Duke University. Schneller was the principal investigator in the 1977 study. The team's work has been preceded by a Capital Region pilot study by Dina Lee of Branford, CN, a 1989 Union College graduate who d.id the work for her senior thesis in sociology. Lee is now living in Schenectady and is a research associate for the team. Weiner joined the Union College faculty in 197 4 and served from 1978 to 1986 as chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology and from 1983 to 1986 as chairman of the Division of Social Sciences. He had been a visiting instructor in sociology at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, before coming to Union. Weiner received a doctorate and a master's degree in sociology from the Univerwsity of ~orth Carolina in 1975 and 1972 re~pectively. He earned a b achelcJr\' degree in sociology from the L'nJ\cr~ity of Illinois at Chkctf· · Cucle m 1970. Among his publi~hed artkk~ are \Black AttrJtic•n 1n Physician Assistant Trainmg Programs' in the American Journal of Public Health April 1981 and \The Black Physician Assistant: Problems and Prospects for a \f inori ty Group in a Ne\1; Health Profession\ in the Journal of Medical Education August 1978. The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation is the largest supporter of research on health care in the nation. It awards about $100 million in grants each year. Speoal/ibraries provode research and iniormatoon services to business, industry, and government. Spec1al !ibrarrans are men and women tramed on the theory an~ prao•ce of library or information scimce as .well as the tundamentals of a partocular subject field. Specialists are needed ira ·many organozations, among which are re5earch institutes, newspapers, insurance co,..,pan&es. banks, law iirms, hospitals and [tovernmental agencies. Sub jed specia.iizatoons may include the soc1al scoences, economocs, the fine artS. engineermg. and til,ephyslcal and biologocal sciences. College Receives PEW Grant . • • EliGIBILITY: QUALIFICATIONS: APPLICATIONS: PLEASE POST College graduates or college seniors with an·interest in spec1al lobrananship. \o\lork expenence on a special library is helpiuL Applicant must be a cotizen of the United States or Canada. o .. submot ev1dence oi becomong natur.o!ized at the beginning oi 11're award perood. Deoi .,te interest and aptotude for spec1al library work. Good academic record. Fi na11cial need. lvlay be requested by wnting to: Specoallibraries Associatoon 1700 1Bth Street, N.W. \1\ia!;hongton, D.C. 20009 ,<~..pplications must be completed and returned by Oct<Jber 27, 1989. JULY 1989 Continued from page 10 acquaint students with modem instrumentation,\ Peak said. The Chemistry Department will obtain an instrument called a Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectrometer and a Macintosh computer that will replace a dispersive infrared system. The new equipment will be used to identify a substance, usually an organic compound, by determining what energies of infrared radiation are absorbed by it, said Professor Thomas Werner of FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE ... The Subcauncil on Research and Grants 1s now soliciting proposals for faculty research and scholarship acttvtttes. Application~ and guidelines are available m Dean Butterstein's Office (S-L()O, S & E). The deadline for submission of proposals ts October 2, 1989. Questions concermng the Faculty Research Fund should be directed to Dean Butterstein. When preparing budgets, please remember t'hat per diem rates are normally limited to $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human proposal mttst have preliminary approval Subjects Research Committee before it can Subcoundl <Jll Research and Grants. subjects, then the from the Human be funded by the Schenectady, chairman of the Chemistry Department. \This type of technology has completely taken over the old technology [dispersive],\ he said. \It is a crucial tool.\ The Biology Department will purchase a new JeiCo transmission electron microscope to replace a m()del that is more than 20 years old, said Associate Professor George Smith of Scotia, who oversees the college's electron microscopes. Smith said the new microscope provides a sharper image and increased penetration and magnification. It is also easier to use than the old microscope. \We can look at thicker materials and get more information from our samples,\ he said. The Pew Charitable Trust~ consist of seven individual charitable funds established between 1948 and 1979 by the sons and daughters of Joseph N. Pew, founder of Sun Oil Company. The Trusts support non- profit organizations dedicated to improving the quality of life for people and communities and encouraging personal growth and self-sufficiency. Grants are awarded in the areas of conservation and the environment, cui ture. education, health and human services, public pol icy, and religion. Desperately Seeking Science Writers! Call Don x6877

. Page 12 CONCORDlENSlS, September 21, 1989 <!LDltfllrbirnsts Founded at Uni0'/1. College 1877 ----- Prevention Through Precaution~ .. · Uni()n College, like most of society, is unsafe. We need t() take the necessary precautions in order to protect <mrselves. We cannot be fooled by the false sense <>f security which our lifestyles here provide .. The Security and Safety Office is willing to take the necessary measures as long as the students act respoasibly. The Security and Safety Office has implemented a new safety program entitled Together For A Safe CamJ)tiS. They hope that throu.gh campus awareness, students will be concerned and beware the potential dangers which exist both on and off Union's grounds. It is essential for us to take defensive steps in order to avoid such hazards. As responsible adults. we shoulci make the effort to adjust our lifestyles to the Security and Safety Office's suggestions. Notifying the Security and Safety Office when we observe something suspicious is an initial defensive act. By n.ot taking action we .are putting everyone at a risk. If assistance is needed, d() not hesitate to call for help. Campus emergency telephones are placed strategicallly for such instances. We need to become accustomed to locking our doors and windows when we leave our rooms and apartments. An open door is an open invitation for an intruder. Walking alone at night is an irresponsible act. Rapes have taken place, assault has been reported and still students think nothing of walking alone at night. Students often take short cuts through campus, avoiding lit walkways. Remember that dark often means danger. Take advantage of the student escort service. We cannot regard Union's campus as separate from the real world when it comes to safety. Past incidents are proof that precautions are necessary. These precautions need to become an integral part of our daily college routine. Through conscientious and responsible actioo students will be taking the initiative towards working Together For A Safe Campus. Deficit: Who's Responsible? Officers of clubs across the campus have received notices from their finance committee representative and from the vice president of finance to the Forum explaining that we are faced with an even greater deficit than calculated last fall. C.oncordiensis, as well as all otller clubs, will be seeing a cut in the budget this year. During the spring, every organization in need of monies submitted to Student Forum a budget proposal. Like that of Concordiensis •, many were returned with figures welrunder what was originally requested. Clubs request what they need and usually get less than that. Now it looks as though we will all have to suffer further cuts. · Last year Concordiensis reported in the fall of an increase in the student activities fee. Student Forum raised the fee from 138 to 159 dollars. They did this to avoid taking the funds out of this years total budget for all the clubs. The increase in the fee produced an extra 25,000. It seems as though 300,000 dollars should cover all club expenses. So, what happened? Furtlter cuts in the budget will only hurt the school as a whole. Clubs will be forced to be inactive. Without proper funds C(lncordiens;is itself will be unable to publish every week. Many other clubs will face a similar dilemma. We,. as clubs, produce a budget to make known our financial needs. Now we will pay for Student Forum's miscalculations. We are all counting on certain budgets for this year, now our financial future is uncertain. LETTERS \A .. ·ch.·l·.·e· .. ·v·e t t· t···h· .· .o·o·· .. R.·''? men s o. · e . · .· ... • . . To the editor: That Peter Janz should deliver a talk extolling \The Achievements of the DDR\ at the very moment that thousands are wrenching their 1i ves to flee the prison created by one of the most hatefult unrelenting, murderoust repressive regimes in Etll'ope is obscenely funny. That the Department of Modem Languages Should have issued the invitation to an aparatchik of that· regime · without, at the very least, providing an occasion for informed· rebuttal is s'imply obscene. FrankGado Professor of English R.ecycling Effort Needs \Pick-Me-Up\ To the Editor: The issue of environmental degradation is one that should be considered seriously by all of us. The fact that this is not the case is clearly indicated by the massive landfills that are constantly growing all around the United S~ates. As reported in the Friday, September 8 issue of the Schenectady Gaz- ette, and from what I have seen myself, having Just returned from a summer studying in the Southern Appalachian Region many of these landfills are: one, composed of 50% recycl'able materials, and two, are contaminating large amounts of underground water supplies. Although landfills Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OplDIODS of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDJENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE lllJNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEP1ED. obviously ar.en't the only environmental problem, their relatively unexamined existence by the larger American pop- ulation reflects a larger trend of thought. That being the, \I'll' just throw it away\ or \I care, but I'm not really willing to do anything\ type of thinking. The point I want to make is that we must all start to recycle now! There is no excuse for idleness or inertia when the environment is suffering. People must begin to realize that humans don't live separate from nature but are intricately part of nature. Therefore, if we choose to destroy our environ- ment, then we choose to destroy ourselves. Why was the recycling bin taken. out cf the College Center? Why did the administration stop such an effort that was showing that people care about this issue. I feel Union C91lege has a respansibility as an educational institution to institute a recycling plan or at least to support those who do. Put the bin back and begin to educate students through curriculum or workshops how to recycle because there is too much being thrown 'out that could be recycled on this campus. For further reference see the . Summer 1989 issue of the Hudson Valley Green Times. Eric Oddleifson '90 The Staff of Concordiensis would like to welcome everyone back for the 1989-1990 school year. - • 1 r F I

. Page l2 CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 rbtrnsts - Founded at Union College 1877 ---- Prevention Through Precaution ... Union College, like most of society, is unsafe. We need to take the necessary precautions in order to protect ourselves. We cannot be fooled by the false sense of security which our lifestyles here provide. The Security and Safety Office is willing to take the necessary measures as long as the students act responsibly. The Security and Safety Office has implemented a new safety program entitled Together For A Safe Campus. They hope that through campus awareness, students will be concerned and beware the potential dangers which exist both on and off Union's grounds. It is essential for us to take defensive steps in order to avoid such hazards. As responsible adults we should make the effort to adjust our lifestyles to the Security and Safety Office's suggestions. Notifying the Security and Safety Office when we observe something suspicious is an initial defensive act. By not taking action we are putting everyone at a risk. If assistance is needed, do not hesitate to call for help. Campus emergency telephones are placed strategicallly for such instances. \Ve need to become accustomed to locking our doors and windows when we leave our rooms and apartments. An open door is an open invitation for an intruder. \Valking alone at night is an irresponsible act. Rapes have taken place, assault has been reported and still students think nothing of walking alone at night. Students often take short cuts through campus, avoiding I it walkways. Remember that dark often mea~s danger. Take advantage of the student escort service. \Ve cannot regard Union's campus as separate from the real world when it comes to safety. Past incidents are proof that precautions are necessary. These precautions need to become an integral part of our daily college routine. Through conscientious and responsible action students will be taking the initiative towards working Together For A Safe Campus. Deficit: Who's Responsible? Officers of clubs across the campus have received notices from their finance committee representative and from the vice president of finance to the Forum explaining that we are faced with an even greater deficit than calculated last fall. Concordiensis, as well as all other clubs, will be seeing a cut in the budget this year. During the spring, every organization in need of monies submitted to Student Forum a budget proposal. Like that of Concordiensis', many were returned with figures well under what was originally requested. Clubs request what they need and usually get less than that. Now it looks as though we will all have to suffer further cuts. Last year Concordiensis reported in the fall of an increase in the student activities fee. Student Forum raised the fee from 138 to 159 dollars. They did this to avoid taking the funds out of this years total budget for all the clubs. The increase in the fee produced an extra 25,000. It seems as though 300,000 dollars should cover all club expenses. So, what happened? Further cuts in the budget will only hurt the school as a whole. Clubs will be forced to be inactive. Without proper funds Concordiensis itself will be unable to publish every week. Many other clubs will face a similar dilemma. We, as clubs, produce a budget to make known our financial needs. Now we will pay for Student Forum's miscalculations. We are all counting on certain budgets for this year, now our financial future is uncertain. LETTERS \Achievements of the DD:R.''? To the editor: That Peter J anz should deliver a talk extolling \The Achievements of the DDR\ at the very moment that · thousands are wrenching their lives to flee the prison created by one of the most hateful, um;elenting, murdero•as, repressive regimes in Europe is ol>scenely funny. That the Department of Modern Languages should have issued the invitation to an aparatchik of that regime without, at the very }.east, providing an occasion for informed rebuttal is simply obscene. Frank Gado Professor of English Recycling Effort Needs ''Pick-Me-Up\ To the Editor: The issue of environmental degradation is one that should be considered seriously by all of us. The fact that this is not the case is clearly indicated by the massive landfills that are constantly growing all around the United States. As reported iA the Friday, September 8 issue of the Schenectady Gaz- ette, and from what I have seen myself, having just returned from a summer studying in the Southern Appalachian Region many of these landfills are: one, composed of 50% recyclable materials, and twD, are contaminating large amounts of underground water supplies. Although landfills Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OpiDIOOS of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBM11TED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE ITIJNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEPTED. obviously aren't the only environmental protllem, their relatively unexamined existence lly the larger American p(,)p- alation reflects a larger ttend of thought. That being the, \I'll just throw it away\ or \I care, but I'm not really willing to do anything\ type of tb.iRking. The point I want to make is that we must all start to recycle now! !here is no excuse for idleness or inertia when the environment is suffering. People must begin to realize that humans don't live separate fmm nature but are intricately part of nature. Therefore, if we choose to destroy our environ- ment, then we choose to destroy ourselves. Why was the recycling bin taken out of the College Center? Why did the administration stop such an effort that wa.s showililg that people care about this issue. I feel Union College has a responsibility as an educational institution t() institute a recycling plan or at least to support those who do. Put the bin back and begin to educate students through curriculum or workshops how to recycle because there is too much being thrown out that could be recycled on this campus. For further reference see the Summer 1989 issue of the Hudson Valley Green Times. Eric Oddleifson '90 The Staff of Concordiensis would like to welcome everyone back for the 1989-1990 school year. ~ . ... · · . . t·· ···r·. '~.~:tat .. ;~.···.·· · : ·· IIUI41 ··>.:--··..- ··-· Utr:itet:t ... ·State'S: . . •*O the Inter¢()1l~giate .Press (IF)., Oftice T~~p.pon't -(~18) 3 7()·6155, Ad'\lettising Telephone {51S) 370\6494. - · · · - - ] T

CONCORDIENS!S, September 21, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS From My Point Of View To the editor: Here I am, Jll.Y f1rst Saturday night back at tile school I love, run by the britliant men wh9m I now intensely abhor. It is 2:00 a.m. and I am sitting in my aprutment .room far down on Carrie St. My system is so full of rage thtat 1 must write down my feelillgs. 1 don't want to belabor tile point, I just want a·littl'eju.stice. I am a .soptl()more at Union. Last fall I decided I wanted to joiQ. the Greek system. So many great g\lyS on campus, I thought, whicb house should I join? For one reason or for many, myfinaldecision landed me as a pledge in Delta Chi. One month l>efbre the ·end of last . school year, the administration took away Raymond H()11se from Delta Ci1i; sentence beginning as of this September. They felt this was necessary :because we were unable to meet the minimum housing requirements over the . last few years. · In tesponse to the administration's initial warning of taking away Raymond House, Delta Chi answered with nineteen pledges.from fall and spring pledge classes to show the administration that we are going to have. this house at nearly 100% occupancy in the coming year. We also su,ggested with signatures from Qver half of the student body that our house provided. a healthy environment that added to one's growth outside the classroom. Toward the end of my pledge period,. my excitement for the future became somewbat void when our president informed us that we had indeed lost our house. But it was decided right there that we were going to go out with class. Contrary to popular belief, we did. Presently, Raymond House is occupied by a mere twenty people, many of whom would like to move out. Already in STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Sevf\t:al·collegesofOxford Ctuverslly have mvtted The Washington !ntt·rtlational Stut.li•·~ Ccntc• to recommend q~oJa)iflC'<I students to study for one year or for one or two terms. Low<•r .Jumor status IS requtred. and graduate study is avaliable Student> ar•· direc-tly enrolled m thr<r • olin(<'' and reeetw t ranscnpts from their· Oxford college: thts ts :\OTa program conducted b~· :t C S. Col· le~r in Oxtord. A special summer session ts directed by WISC. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WJSC o!Te.-s su.mmer mtemsh1ps with CongreSs. with the Wh1te House. with the medi.J and wuh think t.ank~. G<Jvemmetit ... md Journalism rourses are taught -by _senior IeveY gn~.\rnmt·nt omri~S who-a.rr ·aJ.:;;o S{'holars. and by expPrit>nrf\d jnumalic;tcc; Similar oppor1unltlt <;.In puhllc · polu.:y LllLCnlStUt>~are otTcred{wllb at:adernh. ''!Tdlt)-ln L.-;tu.Jon {Fcl..ll Spnng.:1nrl Sun1nHT-) WP.SC The Washington InternationalStudles Center 2l4 Mas:sd<.'hUSCilS Ave. N.£. Su1u· 230 Washington 0(' 20002 !20\11547177~ EO/AA GET ON THE TRACK TOA SCHOLARSHIP. An Air Force Rare· scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Find out if )00 qualify. for tuition and other eq>enses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: MAJOR TIM SERATT 518·276·8024 ...... .. - .... - amMil .. ,. - -... ... ..,. =·\\=-\\=\\' = '\\= - Leadership EJa:ellence Starts Here this first week, at least four students J'i,ving there have verbally expressed that they absolutely would like to be living elsewhere, preferably with the rest of their classmates. These unfortunate students have been stuck in the most undesirable housing location on campus. That's no opinion. It must be such an ove.rwbelmin.gly joyous experience being isolated from the rest of your peers .. As I bave been going out the past few nights hanging out in other fraternities, I have been experiencing two emotions. The fi.J:st feeling is one of a mature 19 year-old telling himself to ignore the pit in the bottom of his stomach because fife comes with its share of ups and downs, and besides, I still share a great brotherhood with a group of awesome friends. The second feeling leaves me angry and frustrated. With this emotion I simply cannot accept what has happened. Many people feel that for the most part, it certainly isn't the house that makes the fraternity. Every student on campus who joined the Greek life did so for a feeling of brotherhood or sisterhood that can be defined by one word: unity. This is the purpose a house serves to a . fraternity. Tp live· with the people that you enjoy being with creates a special bond. I can't tell you this from living in Raymond House because I never got the opportunity to live there. I can, however, back up this statement by recalling the bonds I made last year as a freshman living on Davidson 3rd floor north. Without this source of unity, it becomes very difficult to keep a bond with brothers as well as friends of Delta Chi as tight as we'd like to be. Throughout the past few nights, I have heard fellow brothers and various friends of Delta Chi mutter the exact same words. '\Damn they spurted out, \now would be a great time to head up to D- Chi.\ Every time I hear this, the pit in my stomach gets a little bigger. My anger is swelling and sooner or later I feel like I may explode. 1 will finish my years at Union and make an effort to hold my head up high. Though I am an optimistic person, I also see things for what they are. It irks me that a group of responsible individuals who are an integral part of Union's learning experience have been screwed over by such an unaccepting, intolerant administration. My fraternity will go on as it has for the past sixty-two years. But from here on in, the administration has gi·ven Delta Chi a handicap. Unfortunately, Delta Chi isn't the only group on campus that has to deal with this ridiculous error. For crying out loud, the punishment doesn't fit the crime. David Burg '92 --------~------~ • • • Schaffer Library wlll hold a books ale on the following dates: F@ll Term September 27th October 12th November 8th Spring Term April 11th May 16th June 6th Winter Term January 17th February 14th March 7th The sare will run from 12:00 - 4:00 each of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer library. Please save this schedule for your convenience . • I . I ' ..,

CONCORDIENS!S, September 21, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS From My Point Of View To the editor: Here I am, my first Saturday night back at the school I love, run by the brilliant men whom I now intensely abhor. It is 2:00 a.m. and I am sitting in my apattment room far down on Carrie St. My system is so full of rage that I must write down my feelings. I don't want to belabor the point, I just want a little justice. I am a sophomore at Union. Last fall I decided I wanted to join the Greek system. So many great guys on campus, I thought, which house should I join? For one reason or for many, my final decision landed me as a pledge in Delta Chi. One month before the end of last school year, the administration took away Raymond House from Delta Chi; sentence beginning as of this September. They felt this was necessary because we were unable to meet the minimum housing requirements over the last few years. In response to the administration's initial warning of taking away Raymond House, Delta Chi answered with nineteen pledges from fall and spring pledge classes to show the administration that we are going to have this house at nearly 100% occupancy in the coming year. We also suggested with signatures nom over half of the student body that our house provided a healthy environment that added to one's growth outside the classroom. Toward the end of my pledge period, my excitement for the future became somewhat void when our president informed us that we had indeed lost our house. But it was decided right there that we were going to go out with class. Contrary to popular belief, we did. Presently, Raymond House is occupied by a mere twenty people, many of whom would like to move out. Already in STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWO TERMS IN OXFORD Se\'Pral 1 !Jlleges ol Oxford Lnt\e'fl)tt~· haH.' mVltf'd The- \V..1shmgtnn bllt·mat Jnndl ~lutlw ... { ~ ·nt r·r tcJ nTomrnend quahht\C.i students to .,tudy for ont' vear •>r tor one or l\1.'0 tt\rrnc; Lown Jun10r '-ll.Jiu ... ,.., rf'qutr(~d J.nd ~r.lducJtt\ study IS available S1 udt'rlt\ J.rt· dm:·nl:-- e-nrolk·d 1111 hr\r' \lit l!_f-.., J.nct rrn·1\t> tr.Jfl'-lt npb trom lht·lr Oxtord r:olkgt· th1~ ,.., \\OT ..1 prnj;!r.un r·onducwd h\ ,.11 ..._, Col lt'J.!«' m fhlord .-\ .... pe·nai ... umme-r <;t'':IS!On ,.., dlrf'\c!f'd b\ \.\.\IS< INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WlSC offers summer mremsh1ps Wlth Congres.<:.. wtth the Whttf' House. w11h tht' mt\d•a dnd With thmk tanks Government and Journah5m caurc;;e\•; arf\ laugh! by senior-le\·el g,o\t-rnmt\nt o!TKJd.ls who .J.rt\ al-.o ~holar.;. and b_\· ex{.Jt\tlt\llt'f'd JOurnJ.ll':ol~ St:rul.u (Jpponunll<•..., •r, ,t~Jhtl, pohly Uilt:rn~tul-'~ arc ulkred (wllh ,u-adcmlc nPrltll1n London tF.tll Spnng ami Swrn•r rl WRSC The Washington International Studies Center 214 Mas.-.; •. u:-husetts Avf: :\I E. Sum· 230 Washrngron DC 20002 12021 547 3275 EO/ AA GET ON THE TRACK TOA SCHOlARSHIP An Air Force ROTC scholarship may get you on the right track to success. Find out if )'OU qualify for tuition and other expenses, plus $100 each academic month. Get on the right track. Talk to: MAJOR TIM SERATI 518-276-8024 Leadership Elocellence Starts Here this first week, at least four students living there have verbally expressed that they absolutely would like to be living elsewhere, preferably with thre rest of their classmates. These unfortunate students have been stuck in the most undesirable housing location on campus. That's no opinion. It must be such an overwhelmingly joyous experience being isolated from the rest of your peers. As I have been going out the past few nights hanging out in other fraternities, I have been experiencing two emotions. The first feeling is one of a mature 19 year-old telling himself to ignore the pit in the bottom of his stomach because life comes with its share of ups and downs, and besides, I still share a great brotherhood with a group of awesome friends. The second feeling leaves me angry and frustrated. With this emotion I simply cannot accept what has happened. Many people feel that for the most part, it certainly isn't the house that makes the fraternity. Every student on campus who joined the Greek life did so for a feeling of brotherhood or sisterhood that can be defined by one word: unity. This is the purpose a house serves to a fraternity. To live with the people that you enjoy being with creates a special bond. I can't tell you this from living in Raymond House because I never got the opportunity to live there. I can, however, back up this statement by recalling the bonds I made last year as a freshman living on Davidson 3rd floor north. Without this source of unity, it becomes very difficult to keep a bond with brothers as well as friends of Delta Chi as tight as we'd like to be. Throughout the past few nights, I have heard fellow brothers and various friends of Delta Chi mutter the exact same words. \Damn they spurted out, \aow would be a great time to head up to D- Chi.\ Every time I hear this, the pit in IllY stomach gets a little bigger. My anger is swelling and sooRcr or later I feel like I may explode. I will finish my years at Union amd make an effort to hold my head up high. Though I am an optimistic person, I also see things for what they are. It irks me that a group of responsible imdividuals who are an integral part of Union's learning experience have been screwed over by such an unaccepting, intolerant administration. My fraternity will go on as it has for the past sixty-two years. But from here on in, the administration has given Delta Chi a handicap. Unfortunately, Delta Chi isn't the only group <Jn campus that has to deal with this ridiculous error. For crying out loud. the punishment d<Jesn't fit the crime. David Burg '92 SPRING TERM ABROAD IN VIENNA The application deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Vienna this ct>ming spring is nearing. There are still places available, and students are invited to enroll in the program. One must be at least a sophomore and satisfy the minimum prerequisite for acceptance which is completion of German II (Basic German II}. The Austro~American institute in Vienna is organizing several levels of instruction in German which will suit the student's different language abilities and it will--provide for housing in private families. The \Arts Architecture and Culture\ course taught by Union faculty members in residence {Prof. Kellenter during the 1irst half of the term and Prof. Warde during the second half) will draw on aff of Vienna's resources and acquaint the students with its riCh traditions. Vienna. a magnificent city with its famous Gothic St. Stephen's Cathedral, its Renaissance and Baroque palaces and monumental buildings, occupies a leading position among the world's centers of artistic and intellectual life. It has produced masters . of literature and science; its art collections are renowned the whole work! over; and as a musical center, it probably has no equaL Today, as wen, Vienna is a center of diplomacy between East and West {and for that reason, too, a capital of espionage!). Severa! trips ~Included in the oost of the term) wiff enrich the program, among them a boat trip on; 1tte · [)anube -to the worfd famous monastery at Melk and an eight*day exoursio:n to the ~t:tfman Democratic Republic (East Germany) via Pragu&. Stops in the qDR witt include Dresden, Weimar, Leipzig, and East Berlin. A day in West Bertin will prcovide intera&tirtg-.cornrasts. __ , fif1'hent~matm a:!tJnnoxirnat1~s the cost of a term spent on the Uni()n campus. Alt •SQflota~rsn ,,curre;Jtltlv r:etJeiv:e!d' w~u~ ~tnoliv. The only additional expense is tM air fare to ts tle.rticipatir1·g in the spring term can :the summer without spending Abroad Office, Prof. Warde or Prof. · October 20 . • Schaffer Library will hold a booksale on the following dates: Fall Term September 27th October 12th November 8th Spring Term April 11th May 16th June 6th Winter Term January 17th February 14th March 7th The sale will run from 12:00 - 4:00 each of these days in the main lobby of Schaffer Library. Please save this schedule for your convenience. . . ~, • • ' • • • • >•' • • ....

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, September 21, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Profle of Solidarity: LechWalesa By KEVIN HONIKER too soon, they stood tclli)Jle .~ that they ha4 gained. Organized protests, noneth~less~ were undertaken by Walesa and his union~ as the need arose:.. Ca Ira! His name is Lech Watesa, and .although he has never been an official in the government of Poland, he. has nevertheless · been one of the most :itnportant figures in shaping his country's domestic policies. A$ organizer and leader of contemporary Poland's only independent trade union, known as Solidarity, Walesa has succe~ded in improving the working conditions of his fellow Poles,. while keeping the movement moderate enough to avoid direct action by the Communist government against the union. Born in Popow, Poland in 1943, Walesa's original occupation when he graduated from vocational school was an electrician at the Lenin, Shipyard. His career was cut short in 1976, when he vocalized his objections to the shipyard's treatment of the workers, and was summarily fired. He continued hi~ activism in labor affairs at subsequent jobs, and on -many occasions was again dismissed, or, in some cases, jailed. strike grew to include workers across the Baltic Coast,. with Walesa made the head of an inter ... factory strike committee. Despite some government concessions. Walesa held. fast in his pursuit of freedom for the unions, and the strike ex,panded · fwther to include. some 300,000 workers. At this point, Deputy Prime Minister Miecyslaw Jagielski began serious negotiations with th.e strike committee, and eventually signed an accord with Walesa referred to as the Gdansk agreement. This agreement was the first ever to grant workers the rights to organize independent trade unions and to strike in a Soviet bloc nation. Despite the dissatisfaction of radical unionists with W!llesa's moderate tactics, ·he was reelected chairman of S<>lidar.i.ty on ()Ctober 2, 1981 d11e to his success at ke.eping tlte :union strong. Wab~sa succeeded in steering a moderate ·e6~rse by not .going up agail'lst the Communist system i1S.elf. He has saic\, \We in the u11ions are the u.pholders of SocLalism,\ and that he is merely, against any government which ;'makes people forget they are IJ.uman beings.\ Br GARY LAMRERT St()nning the :Bastille in Paris on July 14, l '789, the sansc11lottes made histo:ry. One of the rnost symbolic events of the ~French Revoluti&n, that day ·- Bastille Dar ·- is festiv-ely celebrated. Thiis summer happenetl to be especially notewortlly. This year was the Bicentennial of the French RevQllltion. In addition, it just so hapJ)enS that the Eiffel Tower was bu.ilt a century ago to the year. This conc:urrence of his t()ry was eno11gb to induce h()ards of camera-toting touris~ t() swell the narrow streets of Paris. InteLligent Parisians went into temporary exile en Fro-vence. Those people who d.idn()t leave Paris received the ple4tsure of dealing with people like me. I v:vas fortunate enoa:gb to be a p!lrt of this history \in the mak:ing.\ Being ll modem language student wb() attends the French table every Monday, I w~s more than eager to hone my conversation skills with any Frenchman unlucky enQugh to be seated be~ide me in the metro. Mucll to my chagrin, most of the con!Versations I had were in English. I decided that 'it would be prudent to take in as. many sights before tile 14th as pos:si ble; thus freei 11g myself for Eastille Day's e~etlts. Of course, whell in Paris, one is obliged to at least stroll by the Eiffel T<Jvttlr. This yeat\'s visi~ors received. 11: speci~l treilt upon. gazing UJ' a.t th1s mammoth of steel. ()Jle could read the words \1'00 ans,\ or \t()O years,\ lit U]J in huge glowing letters. The lines to trawel to the Eiffel T~wer's top weire exceptionally long, and made many tourists easy prey for the souvenir vendors. The famous Tuile:rie Gardens played host to a celebration of French culture. Robotic exhibits of famous Frenchmen, historical dramas every hour, anti more souve11ir vendors ab<Junded. The Grand Arch,. in an unwsually modem s~ction of Paris, was anoth~r site of interest. The Arch is directly in line with the Arc de Triomphe, behind the Champs Elysees. Ad.ding to the new look of Paris was the lle'\V Opera H()use, with its ultra-modem glass facade. · 'llastille Day was, to say the lei~st, crazy. That morning I w11s awakened to tlle sounds of Mii.rage jets and Dauphin he:liocopters screaming. over the fo31er where I was staying. As a}WJays, there was a. huge military parade d()wn the Champs Elysees. S:o mally side streets were blocked off that it made it difficult at times to get where one wanted to go. Unfortunately I missed all but the end of the parade but was looking forward to the fireworks that night. Just before dusk I was seated in the Champs de Mars, with several Australian stndents and thousands of others awaiting the massive fireworks display promised to us in every tourist brochure. Unfortunately for us, the fireworks were launched on the other side of the Riffel Tower and were essentially impossible to see from our vantage point. Feeling like· they had been cheated, many purchased their own firecrakers from waandering vendors and proceeded to lob them in every direction. _ I realize I have given but a taste of what Paris was like but I could write endlessly on the subject and still not include everything. In the words of the French writer Balzac, in speaking of Paris, \You may survey its surface and describe it; but no matt~r what pains you take with your investigations and recognizances, no matter how numerous and painstaking the toilers in this sea, there will always be flowers and pearls and monsters of the deep overlooked or forgotten ... \ · Walesa continued, however, to · emphasize that independent trade unions, and not simply strikes, were what were really needed to better the workers' situation. It was not until 1980 that Wales a led his first large-scale strike. After the Lenin Shipyard workers went on strike on August 14, Walesa -joined the strike~ and then, as its leader, sought to force the government to recognize the free union mov~ment. The Subsequent to this, Wales a and his unions used their striking power on a number of occasions to obtain further wage increases, greater freedom of the press, and recognition of the unions as legal entities. The government did not grant each union legal status, but allowed them to register as one national union, known as Solidarity. Walesa became chairman of the union's national commission, and met for the first time with the Communist Party · Leader, Satnislaw Kania, on November 14, 1980. This meeting firmly established Solidarity as a political force to be reckoned with in Poland. IIi his position as Solidarity leader, Walesa kept the union's demands from becoming so extreme as to force the Soviet Union to intervene. He well knew, that if the union too hard, With tbe most·rece'llt events in Poland, W alesa has remained a dominant figure, althollgh he has not acted according to many people's exp~tations. In April of this ye11r, the Communist Party in Poland fully legalized selid~ity and invited the union to tak:e pat;t in a semi-ftee elie<ltion, believing they would have enough support i(} keep Solidarity from gainrn~ much. The result of the elec.ti<>ns of this pas June, however, garnered Solidarity '99 out of the 100 seats jn the Senate, and 161 seats in the Lower House, the .Sejm (In the Lowel' House, Solidarity was only allowed to contest 161 seats). W alesa was . then instrumental in forming a coalition with two smaller parties, the Peasants a:nd the Democrats, givillg the coalition control <>ver tlle office of the Prime Ministe1. Walesa, however, turned dovvn his nomination for the position, which went tO a comrade who was with W alesll at the start of the movement in 1980, Tadeusz Mazowiecki. Whether Walesa will- ass11:me the position at a later time is impossible to s,ay. JI()Wever, Solidarity has definitely become much more the po1iticai force in Pola;11d today than it was in 1980, i:n a large part due to the effort; of Lech Walesa. Not :a bad accomplishment for :a once unemployed electrician from Popow. JlD lL JE A § lE Write for Inte:rnational Feat11res (

Page 14 CONCORDIE'NSlS, September 21, 1989 INTERNATI,ONAL FEATURES Profile of Solidarity: LechWalesa Ry KEVIN HONIKER too soon, they stood to lose all that they had gained. Organized protests, n(!)netbeless, were undertaken by Walesa and' his union, as the need arose. Ca Ira! His !lame is Lech Walesa, and alth()ugh he has never ))een an o.fficial in the government of Pd 3nd,. he has nevertheless beell! ()fie of the most important figures in shaping his cou11try's dome~tic policies. As organizer and leader of contemporary Polmds only independent trade uni()n, known as Solidarity, Walesa has succeeded in improving the working conditions of his fellow Poles, while lceeping the movement mooerate enough to avoid <lirect acti()n by the Communist government against the union. Born in Popow, Poland in 1943, Walesa's original occtE]}ation when he grad.uated from vocational school was an elec:trician at the Lenin Shipyard. His career was cut short in 1976, when he vocalized his objections t() the shipty~rd's treatment of the worlers, and was summarily fire<!. He continued his activism in labor affairs at subsequent jobs, and on many occasio11s was again dismissed, or, i11 some cases, jailed. W alesa continued, however, to emphasize that indepelldent trad~ unions, and not simply strikes, were what were ~eally need~d to better the workers' situ~ti()n. strike grew to include workers across the Baltic Coast, with Walesa made the head of an inter-factory strike committee. Despite some government· concessions. Walesa held fast in his pursuit of freedom for the unions, and the strike expanded further to include some 300,000 workers. At this point, Deputy Prime Minister Miecyslaw Jagielski began serious negotiations with th.e strike committee, and eventually signed an accord with Walesa referred to as the Gdansk agreement. This agreement was the first ever to grant workers the rights to organize independent trade unions and to strike in a Soviet bloc nation. Despite tbe dissatisfaction of radical unionists with Walesa's moderate tactics, he was reelected chairman of Solidarity on October 2, 1981 due to his success at keeping the union strong. Walesa succeeded in steering a rnooerate course by not going up against the Communist system itself. He has said, \We in the unions are the upholders of Socialism,\ and that he is merely against any government which \makes people forget they are human beings.\ By GARY LAMBERT Storming the Bastille in Paris on July 14, 1789, the sansculottes made history. One of the most symbolic events of the French Revolution, that day -- Bastille Day -- is festively celebrated. This summer happened to be especially noteworthy. This year was the Bicentennial of the French Revolution. In addition, it just so happens that the Eiffel Tower was built a century ago to the year. This concurrence of history was enough to induce hoards of camera-toting tourists to swell the narrow streets of Paris. Intelligent Parisians went into temporary exile en Provence. Those people who did not leave Paris received the pleasure of dealing with people like me. I was fortunate enough to be a part of this history \in the making.\ Being a modem language student who attends the French table every Monday, I was more than eager to hone my conversation skills with any Frenchman unlucky enough to be seated beside me in the metro. Much to my chagrin, most of the convers-ations I had were in English. I decided that it would be prudent to take in as many sights before the 14th as possible; thus freeing myself for Bastille Day's events. Of course, when in Paris, one is obliged to at least stroll by the Eiffel Tower. This year's visitors received a special treat upon gazing up at this mammoth of steel. One could read the words \1 00 ans,\ or \1 00 years,\ lit up in huge glowing letters. The lines to travel to the Eiffel Tower's top were exceptionally long. and made many tourists easy prey for the souvenir vendors. The famous Tuilerie Gardens played host to a celebration of French culture. Robotic exhibits of famous Frenchmen, historical dramas every hour, and more souvenir vendors abounded. The Grand Arch, in an unusually modem section of Paris, was another site of interest. The Arch is directly in line with the Arc de Triomphe, behind the Champs Elysees. Adding to the new look of Paris was the new Opera House, with its ultra-modem glass facade. · Ba.<;ti\le Day was, to say the least, crazy. That morning I was awakened to the sounds of Mirage jets and Dauphin heliocopters screaming over the foyer where I was staying. As always. there was a huge military parade down the Champs Elysees. So many side streets were blocked off that it made it difficult at times to get where one wanted to go. Unfortunately I missed all but the end of the parade but was looking forward to the fireworks that night. Just before dusk I was seated in the Champs de Mars. with several Australian students and thousands of others awaiting the massive fireworks display promised to us in every tourist brochure. Unfortunately for us, the fireworks were launched on the other side of the Eiffel Tower and were esselltially impossible to see from our vantage point. Feelin~ like they had been cheated, many purchased their own firec.rakers from waandering vendors and proceeded to lob them in every direction. I realize I have given but a taste of what Paris was like but I could write endlessly on the subject and still not include everything. In the words of the French writer Balzac, in speaking of Paris, \You may survey its surface and describe it; but no matt~r what pains you take with your investigations and recognizances, no matter how numerous and painstaking the toilers in this sea, there will always be flowers and pearls and monsters of the deep overlooked or forgotten ... \ It ....vas not until 1980 that W alesa led his first large-scale stri:B:ce. After the Lenin Shipyard workers went on strike: on August 14, Walesa joined the strike, and then, as its leader, sought to force the govet1lment to recognize the free union movement. The Subsequent to this, Walesa and his unions used their striking power on a number of occasions to obtain further wage increases, greater freedom of the press, and recognition of the unions as legal entities. The government did not grant each union legal status, but allowed them to register as one national union, known as Solidarity. Walesa became chairman of the union's national commission, and met for the first time with the Communist Party Leader, Satnislaw Kania, on November 14, 1980. This meeting firmly established Solidarity as a political force to be reckoned with in Poland. In his position as Solidarity leader, Walesa kept the union's demands from becoming so extreme as to force the Soviet Union to intervene. He well knew, that if the union hed too hard, 1seng Xiaopir.ti.f ·~·~~···· ~!l~~~ .:h·is heii'r ,~~:.c.-~-~ .. ~oi, .r:\ ~:S:.i;l,a1f,IJJI·tw·~tl'· acoordi,ng · to ·a ,_ oonfi~entwa'1 re·p~rt~ · Tl\e · ,bst-r .ls t:heFFC:a.mtmtlA'i:~~~;\.: General Set~retary ~ Jiang Iemin. Salvadorian reb&l$ would b~ willing t~ \cease. ,hC?~ti~itl~.~ 1 : •. if!~~ ~l~-···. halts all military assistance tQ El Salvadors new rtgtlt .. wtng government, a guerilla leader said. _ . . . , .. _ . .. . . _ ·, \\f1· • _ · C()urtesy of the, Neyv York , unes With the most recent events in Poland, Walesa has remained a dominant figure, although he has not acted according to many people's expectations. In April of this year, the Communist Party in Poland fully legalized solidarity and invited the union to take part in a semi-free election, believing they would have enough support to keep Solidarity from gaining much. The result of the elections of this pas June, however, garnered Solidarity 99 out of the 100 seats in the Senate, and 161 seats in the Lower House, the Sejm (In the Lower House, Solidarity was only allowed to contest 161 seats). Walesa was then instrumental in forming a coalition with two smaller parties, the Peasants and the Democrats, giving the coalition control over the office of the Prime Minister. Walesa, however, tu.rned down his nomination for the position, which went to a comrade who was with W alesa at the start of the movement in 1980, Tadeusz Mazowiecki. Whether Walesa will assume the position at a later time is impossible to say. However, Solidarity has definitely become much more the political force in Poland today than it was in 1980, in a large part due to the efforts of Lech Walesa. Not a bad accomplishment for a once unemployed electrician from Popow. IF IL E A § JE Write for International Features 1

( CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 19S9 Page 15 IN'TERNA TIONAL FEATURES :Let'-s Go -Deu.tschla. · nd U .. l . . ' ' - .Ry CURTIS .BUTLER Amd JEREMY MOORE Klaus Schmidt might be considered a typical student at a 'Gemurn university. Bis alarm b11zzes. at .six-thirty~ and as is ·.his CU!stom~ Klaus quickly d.iesses, slips Qn ·his sandals, and makes his. way to the kitcbett,. soared by all eight stu{!ents on the floor. There he attendt\~ to the first order of · hnsine:ss-- a cu.p of coffee ~or tea) and whole grain bread with autter,. jam and cheese. The cotlversation at breakfast center:s around the national soccer team's sorry defeat at the hancls 0f the Italians tl!e night befocre.. Klaus expresses his disapp-ointment at the team's performance and would like to discuss the matter in greater deptl1, but he must be on his way. His first class begins at ei~ht. \To lay claim to a \goo.d\ se'at in the lecture hall (cr:tp3dty: 751), Klaus hops on his Model-A Schwinn and millleu-vers his way thro11gh the sea of would-l>e seat-takers al()ng t:;he 15-tninute ride to the university. Entering· the lecture han, he checks the ·clock. It's 7:45. Once safely situated he neatly arranges his stock of colored pencils and straight- edges, then watches over the seats he's saved for hjs friends. Promptly at eight, the professor .steps up to the podium~ hooks the microphone around his neck and Class begins. At one point duri~g class the professor makes a mathematical error and is interrupted by a flurry of whistles. With two minutes remaining, the professor, unaware of the time~ introduces as new topic. Some students decide that it should wait until next week and initiate a roar of desk pounding, drowning out anything the professor might wish to add. Klaus tops off the morning classes with a trip to the Mensa {cafeteria). Over a tray - ofl.eberkaese unGartensalat he and his friends comment on the latest superpower summit and crack jokes about their chancellor. A cup of coffee follows lunch, and it's back to the student house. In the· house Klaus checks his mailbox, fetches the newspaper and grins at the headline: \Becker~ Graf Wimbledon Champs AgF}in\. He leafs through the p-aper (which he fully intends to read later) and hurries upstairs. On: this Friday aftern()on, like so many Friday afternoons, the house willsoon be abandoned as the stu<lents head for home. Klaus gathers his things for the weekend and waits for his ride. The main street out of :t-own takes him past the block of university buildings. The sound of passing cars· slips through the gate and ech<Jes in the empty COUrtyard. }Cla1!S spots a lone student leavi11g the library. What he doesn't see are groups of students miEling about, cars lining every '{;utb awaiting the end of c::lub meetings, and the busy practice fields of university ·teams. There aren't any to be foUlld. As the car passes the I ast university building and t.akes the exit for the Auto.b.ahn, Klaus sits back in his seat and opens up his paper, contemt in knowing he'll have a ha>me- cooked meal and still catch the seven o'clock news. WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES - International Question By A. SIMON What do you think about the US policy to combat drug traffic from Columbia? At Octoberf.est New Yor.k Internationally ·By MICHAEL GREENBERG And THE TROUPE Winding clown the New York State Thruway on September 15, the Internatiorral House members prepared to do the City. The trip was not terribly stylish-- Air Force One was not available and the police were too preoccupied to provide a motorcade. Nine members and friends of the House crammed! into two cars for a three-hour trip to Larchmont, a plush suburb of the City. A short respite reenergized the trottpe, and soon, the trek to tile train station began. AU abooard! For 30 minutes, the commuter train lazily wound down toward the City. Little did the International House partv know, those 30 minutes would be the quietest, most relaxing and possibly most intimate moments of the entire night and the next morning. Grand Central Station welcomed the party with that damp~ sometimes honid~ smell only characteristic of the City. Past the big Maxell, Scny, and Camel lights, everyo-ne headed towards Rockefeller Center and Cllina Town, not knowing whether the two destinations wer.e even in the same direction. The International House troupe walked, and walked and walked, for several hours;. until finally, they chose to stop half-way somewhere in Manhattan, Hungrily searching for a res tau rant, the International House party collapsed in a Sbarro, that Italian place located ncar almost every turnpike, thruway, and city in America. While some of the tourists decided to vanquish their hunger, two female· members of the group decided to spice up the evening. Standing on the street comer, the ladies were approached by a slightly obese, friendly-looking gentleman, He handed them matchb(}oks emblazoned with the w<>rds \Honey Buns ... TI1e International House men escorted the ladies away from the friendly New Yorker. The night ended at 5:30 a.m. on the Brooklyn Bridge. The next day, the International House troupe went sightseeing again. The evening proved fantastic, and the group went dancing at The Tunnel. Early Sunday, everyone awakened around 3:00 p.m. o.f the Week Susan Kersch, 1991 - I think US policies aimed at stopping drugs from entering the country have proved totally ineffective. I believe we need to pursue a forceful and offensive policy in Columbia . aimed at stopping drug ·· .· \' production. Mary Jo Conley, 1990 -I think that Bush is on the right track starting an anti-drug program. However, the people in Columbia should have to deal with the prosecution of their own drug dealers. Extraditing them to the US when we know they are assassinating Columbia's own judicial officials is foolish. Why should our judges and members of the Justice Department be put at risk? Dan Doyle, 1~92 - There shoul~ be a mandatory death sentence for anyone caught importing controlled swbstances in a quantity intended for sale. The US should not however, intervene with Columbian internal affairs. 'Jhe US needs to protect its borders from drug transportation. The Army and Navy should be stationed at the South American border. Carl B. Dickson, 1990 - The main problem in the drug war is the issue the current administration refuses to face. The issue of why is there such a huge demand for drugs in this country. Why is society so stressful that peoJlle tum to drugs instead of facing up to their probLems? Peter Katz, 1991 - I think the Bush adminstration is making a valiant yet feeble attempt to end the drug problem. More pressure and more money should be placed into the \war\~ if the administration is going to make it a maj()lt goal. Only then should we intervene and if we do, it sho11ldn't be half-hearted. ...

i· ' t ! ' 1 J I I 1 C()NCORDFENSIS, Septembtr 21, 1989 Page 15 INTERNATlONAL FEATURES Let's Go Deutschland U.! By CURTIS BlfTLER And JEREMY MOORE Klaus Schmidt might be considered a typical student at a Germa11 university. His alarm buzzes at six-thirty, and as is his custom, Klaus quickly dresses, slips on his sandals, and makes his way to the kitchen, shared by al!l eight students ()n the floor. There he attends to the first or:der of business-· a cup of c<>ffee JOr tea) and whole grain bread with butter, Jam and cheese. The conversation at breakfast centers around the national soccer team's sorry defeat at the hands of the Italians the night before. Klaus expresses his disappoi11tment at the team's performance and would like to discuss the matter in greater depth, lmt he must be on his way. His first class begins at eight. T(} lay claim to a \good\ seat in the lecture hall (capacity: 751), Klaus hops on his Model-A Schwiiln and maneuver!> his way tlucmgh the sea of \.VCluld-be seat-takers aiong the 15-minutc ride to the universit:Y- Entering the lecture hall, he checks the clock. I t 1 S 7:45. Once safely situated :he neatly arranges his stock of colored pencils and straight- edges, then watches over tlte seats he's saved for his friends. Promptly at eight, CITe professor steps up to t11e podium, hooks the microphone around his neck and c IC£ss begins. At one point du:ri11g class the professor makes a mathematical error ami is interrupted by a flurry of whistles. With two minutes remaining, the professor, unaware of the time, introduces as new topic. Some students decide that it should wait ullitil next week and initiate a roar of desk pounding, drowning 01ut anything the professor mi~h t wish to add. Klaus tops off the momimg classes with a trip to tlle Mensa (cafeteria). Over a tray of Leberkaese un Gartensalat he and his friendr.; comment on the latest superpower summit amd crack jokes about tC1eir chancellor. A cup of t·otfee follow~ lunch, and it's hal' k to the student house. In the hou~.;e Klaus chct\ b his mailbox, fetches t11e newspaper and grins at the heM.line: \Becker Graf Wimbledon Champs Again\. He leafs through the paper (which he fully intends to read later) and hurries upstairs. 011 this Friday afternoon, I ike so many Friday aftemoons, the house will soon be abandoned as the students head for home. Klaus gathers his things for the weekend and wait:; for his ride. The main street out of town takes him past the block of university buildings. The soun<i of passing cars slips thromgh the gate and echoes in the empty courtyard. Klaus spots a lone student leaving the library. What he doesn't see are groups of students milling about, cars lining every curb awaiting the end of club meetings, and the busy practice fields of university teams. There aren't any to be found. As the car passes the last university building and takes the exit for the Autobahn. Klaus sits back in lli~ scat and npen:s up his paper, content in knmving he'll ha\ c a home- cooked meal and still c arch the seven o'clock news. WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Question At Octoberf.est New York Internationally By MICHAF:L GREENBERG And THE TROUPE Winding down the New York State Thruway on September 15, the International House members prepared to do the City. The trip was not terrihly stylish-- Air Furce One wa~ not availahle and rhe polirc were too pre(x.Tupil'ci to prm ilk a mot orr ade. :\me n~r.:mhcts and frk'nd.\ ,>f !hL' llou~c cLilll!IIL'd tmu l\\1 1 c.Jr~ fur a three ltl•Ur trip 1\l Larchmont. :t plush suhurh ot th,· Clty .. \ ·,h,ln Ic.plL reenergized the troupe, and ~oon, the trek to the It a in station began_ All aboard~ hlf 30 minutes, the commuter train lazily wound down toward the City. Little did the International House partv know, those 30 minutes would be the quietest, most relaxing and possibly most intimate moments of the entire night and the next morning. Grand Central Station welcomed the party with that damp, sometimes horrid, smell only characteristic of the City. Past the big Maxell, Sony, and Camel lights, everyone headed towards Rockefeller Center and China Town, not knowing whether the !'All dc~tination~ were even in r he ~aml' direction. Tht: lni.t:rnatillnal House troupe \1' ;tlked. and walkcc, and walh:d. fm <.,L\veral hours; until finalh~thcy chme tn stop half-w;t;. ~~ )fllL'Whl'rl.' m rvtanhattan. Hungril\ 'l'arl h!n~~ !Pr a TL':-tauranl. rh~.: lnttTlldt t·•fl.tl flLIIJ\L' pdl(\ ._·, 1:J ,tf''l'd Ill ,I ~harrtl. til.1r : u :; .111 r: .1\ l' !d,·~u~:d r~; .. ·~tr ~ti:ti~l·d ~·\~.:r\ l':IIIJliL·. rlt!H'~ .•'- .r11d, 1 1 :- 111 .\ 111L'IIC,I. \\ illlc '\ rl\1..' I ,j ~I;,· jltiJih]' dn·t:: ·,; : :· \ .t!Hjlli·,il t!ll:ir hunl'c·r. 1\.\CI irl~ltk t~~·~·tPt'r...~f\, I ,f 1}1·-· P'(\ :;) ''C!,,~~\~ in 'PIC~ up !liL' L'\l.'lllll~. Standtn~ un th,· ,tr<....:L'I C('llil'l_ lhL•JadiL'-., \\.L'rt• .lf~J':f•>;tdiL'd h\ .I srtghtly OOL\'L' fH>:fltfly-lo<•J..mg gentleman. I IL· tJ:Jn ded filL' 111 matchbooks ernhl<.!!wned \\ irh the words \Honey l~uns\. The International Hc1use mt?n escorted the ladies ~tway from the friendly New Yorker. The night ended at 5:30 a.m. on the Brooklyn Bridge. The next day, the International H<Ju~e troupe went sightseeing again. The evening proved fa111 as tic, and the group went dan(;i ng at The Tunnel. Early Sunday, everyone awakened around 3:00 p.m. of the Week By A. SIMON Wf\ Susan Kersch, 1991 - I What do you think about the US policy 1o combat drug traffic from Columbia? Mary Jo Conley, 1990 - I think that Bush is on the right track starting an anti-drug program. However, the pe<rple in Columbia should have to deal wifh the prosecution of their own drug dealers. Extr(ld.iting them to the US when we know they are assassinating Columbia's own judicial officials is foolish. Why should our judges and ·members of the Justice Department be Jntt at risk? Dan Doyle, 1992 - There should be a mandatory death sentence for anyone caught importing controlled substances in a quantity intended for sale. The US should not however, intervene with Columbian internal affairs. The US needs to protect its border~ from drug tran.sportation. The Army and Navy should be stationed at the South American border. think US policies aimed at stopping drugs from e11tering the country have proved totally ineffective. I believe we need to pursue a forcefal and offensive policy in Columbia aimed at stopping drug production. Carl B. Dickson, 1990 - The main problem in the drug war is the issue the current administration refuses to face. The issue of why is there such a huge demand for drugs in this country. Why is society so stressf u 1 that people tum to drugs instead of facing up tCl their problerns? Peter Katz, 1991 - I think the Bush adminstration is making a valiant yet feeble attempt to end the drug problem. More pressure and more money should be placed into the \war\, if the administration is going to make it a major goal. Only then should we intervene and if we do, it shouldn't be half-hearted.

Page 16 Rosa Fernandez By AIME SIMON Rosa Maria Escoto Fernandez, the Spanish teaching assistant, hails from Chihuahua, Mexico, which is located in the northern part of the country approximately 4 hours from El Paso, Texas and 18 hours from Mexico City. Currently 22, she graduated from Chihuahua University with a degree in English studies. She was chosen by Frank Malgesini, her language teacher, for the opportunity to come to Union for this year. Rosie was very helpful in ' I CONCORD1£NSJS, Sept~mber 21, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student of the Week presenting an understanding of the current outlook in Mexico. She characterizes the life of a college student in the States as being extremely different. In Mexico, the majority of students remain in their parents' home as there .are no dorms at the university. It is unusual for a male t() have his own apartment while in school and unacceptable for a woman to live alone. Moral standards are higher due to the emphasis on the family clan and the importance of religion. A girl attends college in order to be preparedJor marriage. As Rosie says, \The Mexican dream is a family; a woman is not worth anything without a husband.\ Such traditional Catholic values as the prohibition of sex before marriage, the den_!lnciation of the use of the birth control pill, and the total shamefulness and int()lerance of adultery are still firmly instilled. \You have to obey your parents - if they tell you not to go out, you don't go out. If they tell you not to have a boyfriend, you don't have a boyfriend.\ She explained that on tile two most important holidays, Christmas Eve and New Year's, one spends time with the whole family instead of going out with friends. In.· fact, the custom is so strong that when two people get married, from the first, an arrangement is made to spend one of the festival days with the husband's family and the otiler with the wife's. Formal practices including attending mass every Sunday are generally expected since religion plays a dominant role in the lives of Rosie's parents' generation. However, today things ae changing, and Rosie does not consider herself a religious individual. Rosie grew up in Mexico City, a \t()wn\ with a population of 20 million. It is an exciting· place; the center of all government and financial activities. It offers .the best stores, restaurants, theatres, and horse racing tracks in the country. Yet there are also many social ,problems. The pollution is so dense that it is sometimes difficult to see the sun by day and the stars by night, and so each car has a sticker which determines the days of the weekone can drive. Another diffricuJty is the fairly rigid social structure in terms of a gross distinction between the wealthy and the poor. Rosie discloses that there are certain discotqlles oo which she cannot gain entrance. Mexico City has two amttsement parks - Reino A ventura for the rich and Chapratepec for the ''I don't want a lot of hype. I just want something I can count on.,~ Some long distance companies promise yo1..1 the moon, but what vou really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a C()St that's a lot less than you think You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, dear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network When it's time to choose, forget thegimmicks and make the intelligent choice- AT&T. If you'd like to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300 ATilT The right choice. \ \common folk.\ Materialistic competition is fierce. \If a neighbor buys a new car, one would also buy a car even if it would mean that you couldn't· afford. to eat meat for a year.\ Rosie describes herself as funny and friendly. Her future plans include a year of study in Eng1and and she has eventual career plans to teach English to Mexican executives. Apparently, this is a service whiCh is in much demand since so many American .companies manufacture their products. in Mexico. She enjoys swimming, going to the beach, and dancing. Her favorite movie is ;, Somewhere in Time\ with Christopher Reeve and she likes a11 kinds of modern music including the Pet Shop Boys. Rosie has had a good time at Union so far and looks forward to upcoming experiences. ·. Lan·guage ··· Table.s. ····Colleg.e: ·Center · ·Monday 12:45-1:45 · Fre·ncb~ :Rus~ian, Hebrew·· Tuesday 11 :45~ 12:45 Italian Wednesday 12:45- 1:45 German, . Japanese & Spanish· At the Spectrum 4 Theatres 290 Delaware Avenue Albany, NY 12209 449u8995 LA u:CTRICE (THE READER) LA LECTRICE is an erotic · French film which operates , on several levels at once. A woman Constance (Miou- . Miou) is asked by her boyfriend to read a book aloud to him. As she does Constance imagines herself . as the heroine of the novel. • The novel tells the story of , Marie (Miou-Miou), a • charming young woman who, like Constance, has a. passion for literture. When • Marie decides to advertise : her services as a professional reader .a range . of eccentric characters soon · respond to the ad, and . Marie finds herself entering • the lives of these unusual people in unexpected ways. , \Stylish French eroticism entirely by the book.\ Bruce :Williamson, Playboy. \Fascinating. Two thumbs .up.\ Siskel & Ebert. In French w/subtitles. AREA ; PREMIERE (R) 98 min.

CONCORDIENSIS, Septembe.r 21, 1989 THE OFFICE OF FINANCIAL AID WELCOMES THE CLASS OF '93 AND ALL RETURNING STUDENTS We are located on the second .floor of Becker Hall. Our office hours during the academic. year are Monday through Friday, 8:30a.m. to 4:45 p.m. Our telephone extension is 6123. Please contact our office should you need any assistance. FYI...FYL..FYL.FYI ... FYL.FYI. .. FYL.FYI.. .FYI ... FYI. .. FYI.. .FYI ... FYI • Do yon plan on taking the Graduate Record Examination? You may be eligible for a GRE Fee Waiver should you be receiving extensive financial assistance. Visit our office to see if you quality. MEMBER UNIVERSITIES Indiana University · New York University The University of North Carolina at Chap[!] Hill University of Southern California The Uaiversity of Texas at Au'>tin Washington University in St. Louis Uni vcrsity of Wisconsin For more information, write to: CONSORTIUM FOR GRADUATE STUDY l'.i \1Af'.:AGE M E\ .. 1 One Brookings Drive Box 132 St. Louis, MO 6} I _\W Page 17 eAre you a minority student interested in graduate study in management? The Consortium for Graduate Study in Manager:nent is a nine university alliance working to hasten the entry of minorities into managerial positions in business. These universities recruit college-trained Black, Mexican, Cuban, Puerto Rican, Dominican, and Native American men and women for fe11owships for graduate study leading to the Mater of Business Administration (MBA) degree. \Have you heard aboullhc following scholarship progr..tms avaibbh: in li br..tl)· science? Fellowship Applications are due to Prof. Klein October 2 ·\ You can save literally days Better algorithms and chip of work between now and design help you finish much graduation. Simply by using faster and more accurately an HP calculator. Th keep than their way. So, whether you fi·om endlessly retracing you're in engineering, busi- your steps, ours have built- . ness, finance, life or social in shortcuts. Such as the· · sciences, we've got the best unique HP Solve function calculator for you. For as for creati,ng your own fonn- little as $49.95. Check it out ulal!. Menus, labels and at your campus bookstore prompts. Program libraries. or HP retailer. ·Algebraic or RPN models. 0 1989·tlewlett-Paekard Company PG12905 Our way. There is a better way. Ffl_n :II HEWL.ETT a!i!ll PACKARD

'-' Page 18 CONCORDJENSIS, Septembu 21, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT IDOL CHATTER The Rehabilitation Of The Nott Memorial As Follows By Jose Andrade I saw you in the lobby dancing about--I walked to talk to you but you danced into another hall, amidst my gaul, I followed with little doubt into a comer I surmised, you disappeared perhaps to the left or perhaps right, into a store or out to the street among many other dancing fee, my efforts blighted to join your joyous beat I walked through the hall, contemplating the downfall of my efforts and dancing you came bumping me into a wall Welaughand dance, pran.ce and glance and perchance, our duet complete we can repeat our dancing feet in splended sight, nothing too contrite, camelias or quick cats, perhaps \Plum-blue lips\ amidst flighty trips, something like that By KAREN BURNS If asked to describe the grounds ofUnion's campus one structure always comes to mind; this structure is the Nott Memorial. The Nott is an historic landmark and presently it is undet•going a stabilization period, or more specifically, a \rehabilitation program.\ At this time, the Planning Priorities Committee is trying to determine the Nott's future. The first .step being taken is stabilizing the exterior of Nott. Union has contracted a structural engineering firm which is working on the immediate steps which must be taken in order to keep the structure in condition for regular use. After a thorough THE WESTMINISTER PIANO TRIO will present a program of \Poetry and Music\ in the Performing Arts Studio 1st Floor, Arts Building Tuesday, Sept. 126 8:00p.m. Schubert * Haydn & Walker & more! UNION COLLEGE CHAMBER ORCHESTRA REHEARSALS UNDERWAY THURSDAYS, 7:00 Memorial Chapel SLring players welcome. Bass available. Timpanist and percussionisL needed. Come to rehearsal and/or call: Prof. Tanh (6566 or 6201) inspection the Nott's weak spots were located and splints have been put up to keep the stone facing intact. once initial planning and designing has been laid out, a formal plan will be drawn up and submitted by the structural engineering firm. Subsequently, after funds are approved, the actual construction will begin. The entire project, which consists of reconstructing both the exterior as well as the int~rior, will require funds estimated to be between $3.5- $4 million. Union has approached the State of New York's Historic Preservation Society. However, of the $1 million requested, only $300,000 has been offered. Additionally, the Olin Foundation has been approached for funds to build a new theatre, and if funds are granted the planning and actual construction of a new theater will he many years down the road. A common assumption on campus is that the Nott is undergoing construction because the splints are indications for long term constrUction. This assumption, however, is incorrect for there are numerous steps which must be taken before lillY changes are made. Right now the college is doing its best to prevent further deterioration of the Nott. In keeping the e~terior intact they are preserving the building so that it can continue to be used as a theatre. r------- CLIP 'N SAVE ----- --. I I I I I THE NEW 8.97 I I I I Are you ~ick of going over your summer? Has your suntan I I I faded in Schenectady's constant rainfall? Don't you want to I forget about the summer and enjoy the fast-paced days of fall?- I I Nope, neither are we. But we're on the air anyway, with new I I records all over the place. Tune in and hear your future. Thank I I you. I I Record I I Artist Title ~QIDJlilDI I I 1. Camper Van Beethoven Key Lime Pie Virgin I I 2. Hoodoo Gurus Magnum Cum Louder RCA I -·. 3. Various Artists The Bridge Caroline I I 4. Lucinda Williams Lucinda Williams Rough Trade I 5. The B-52's Cosmic thing Reprise I I 6. Toad The Wet Sproket Bread & Cir<;:us Columbia I I 7. Poi Dog Pondering Poi Dog Pondering Columbia/ I I Texas Hotel I 8. The Pouges Peace And Love Island I 8.97 Meat Beat Manifesto Storm The Studio Wax Tray I WATSON FELLOWSHIP I I Deadline: Oct. 2 I I See Profs Klein Wlth Any Questions ____ .,.. __ ...... - - --------- --- . '

I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I B 0 CONCORD/EN SIS, September 21, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT IDOL CHATTER The Rehabilitation Of The N ott Memorial As Follows By Jose Andrade I saw you in the lobby dancing about--1 walked to talk to you but you danced into another hall, amidst my gaul, I followed with little doubt into a corner I surmised, you disappeared perhaps to the left or perhaps right, iHto a store or out to the street among many other dancing fee, my efforts blighted to join your joyous beat -IDOL- WORKSHOPS Help you find your voice in creative writing· Come to our meetinQS at 8:00 an Camegiein Room 204 Bring an Open Mind! I walke<l through !:he hall, contemiJlating the downfall of my efforts and dancing you carne bumping me into a wall We laugh and dance, prance and glance and perchance, our duet complete we can repeat our dancing feet in splended sight, nothing too contrite, camelias or quick cats, perhaps \Plum-blue lips\ amidst flighty trips, something like that By KAREN BURNS If askecl to describe the grounds of Union's campus one structure always comes to mind; this structure is the Nott Memorial. The Nott is an historic landmark and presently it is undergoing a stabilization period, or more specifically, a \rehabilitation program.\ At this time, the Planning Priorities Committee is trying to determine the Nott's future. The first step being taken is stabilizing the exterior of N ott. Union has contracted a structural engineering firm which is working on the immediate steps which must be taken in order to keep the structure in condition for regular use. After a thorough THE WESTMINISTER PIANO TRIO will present a program of \Poetry and Music\ in the Performing Arts Studio i st Floor, Arts Building Tuesday, Sept. 126 8:00p.m. Schubert \ Haydn & Walker & more! UNION COLLEGE CHAMBER ORCHESTRA REHEARSALS UNDERWAY THURSDAYS, 7:00 Memorial Chapel String players welcome. Bass available. Timpanist and percussionist needed. Come to rehearsal and/or call: Prof. Tann ( 656o nr 6~0 I ) CLIP 'N SAVE - - IIK&'8 II!ID - .... -. I I THE NEW 8.97 I I I I I I I I Are you sick of going over your summer? Has your suntan faded in Schenectady's constant rainfall? Don't you want to forget about the summer and enjoy the fast-paced days of fall? Nope, neither are we. But we're on the air anyway, with new records all over the place. Tune in and hear your future. Thank you. inspection the Nott's weak spots were located and splints have been put up to keep the stone facing intact. once initial planning and designing has been laid out, a formal plan will be drawn up and submitted by the structural engineering firm. Subsequently, after funds are approved, the actual construction will begin. The entire project, which consists of reconstructing both the exterior as well as the interior, will require funds estimated to be between $3.5 - $4 millioR. Union has approached the State of New York's Historic Preservation Society. However, of the $1 million requested, only $300,000 has been offered. Additionally, the Olin Foundation has been approached for funds to build a new theatre, and if funds are granted the planning and actual construction of a new theater will be many years down the road. A common assumption on campus is that the N ott is undergoing construction because the splints are indications for long term construction. This assumption, however. is incorrect for there are numerous steps which must be taken before any changes are made. Right now the college is doing its best to prevent further deterioration of the Nott. In keeping the exterior intact they are preserving the building so that it can continue to be used as a theatre. H 0 . R a·· s c·· ·~· ·o· , ... ,.··p' '~!!~···· · .... :· .... ······.·· .. · ..... · ...... :'·•··a- By MADAME \X 1 * lfbra: Take a big step back and look wha.1 youtve been doing. It's onfy the beginning of the school year so take it slow so you won't lose your mind! Scorpio: Everything seems to be coming your way and you need not duck! You are the envy of a lot of folk so enjoy yourself. but make sure it doesn't go to your head. Sag,ittarius: If Schenectady is getting you down ... open up your imagination and do something crazy! Don't l.et your inhibitions siand in your way---go for ltl Capricorn: Money may be a little tight, but you can still enjoy yourself.. .take a walk with someone you admire on a cool autumn evening .. Aquarius: Bored? Household items can entertain. Paper clips make great earings, calculators form words, and yogurL.weH ... ? Pisces: What is going on here? You can't be happy if you keep repressing your other side ... take my advice and play naked lacaross! . Arie$: Stop telling tan tales of the night before. If you put your money where your mouth is y<>u'd be a biUionaire. So I'd keep a lid on it before It comes back in your face I Taurus: This marks the beginning of a new leaf for . you ... so don't start off on the wrong fQot. Remember, procrastination only adds up to. a big headache in the end! Gemini: Find solace in front of an unUt firepl'ace. Snuggle up to y<>or favori~e T.V •. show or m~Uow out with a tri;ent'~ Relax. But if you arra already at this point may:be take a nap. · Artist Title Record Company Virgin I cancer: Your da~·:dt ams.,l,are, 'ittinl.'ti'H~)best of 1 , •· you,, $top<la(l:~l1 1 ~f lt •..... ··· . ·· · ~o(.~ ~ : .: · , · ;~ti tili~~UI !fh~ · · · voiti yo:~;;~,•ve oett'l fe~nrrg. L.eto~rners ~q~w~o you 1. Camper Van Beethoven Key Lime Pie 2. Hoodoo Gurus Magnum Cum Louder 3. Various Artists The Bridge 4. Lucinda Williams Lucinda Williams 5. The B-52's Cosmic thing 6. Toad The Wet Sproket Bread & Circus 7. Poi Dog Pondering Poi Dog Pondering 8. The Pouges Peace And Love 8.97 Meat Beat Manifesto Storm The Studio RCA Caroline Rough Trade Reprise Columbia Columbia/ Texas Hotel Island Wax Tray I are an~' Jefgot · · ·. · · · · I I I I I I I I I :, \ll,~f(): ··rxo:u~re dolnPJ graan ;V:,u'v~··~irt~llty.'~!am·e, • •·.·· intO yOUr OWrl. il$ happy fl$\c\Q h$W far ycuva eome ••• ~<eep moving forwarE.If·~oo may S'O'Oli reach the Q'Oid at tha end of your tafnbow. . · WATSON FELLOWSHIP Deadline: Oct. 2 See Prof. Klein With Any Questions ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~------~

CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 Page 19 . . ARTS & EN1,ERT AINMENT Steven Wright At Proctor's By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Edit1n time, space, and reality; and it is this surrealism which makes him different. ··Sex, Lies And Videotape .. On Friday, Sept. 15, Steven Wright brought to the Proctor's Theatre his slightly skewed _ observations on everyday life. It is hard to describe Wright's humor, but ilfter 60 minutes of his comatose dead pan delivery I would have to .say it rests somewhere between catatonic and the sublime. Wtight is the .type of man · who probably sleeps in a bed which rests on a cliff in a random area of the world for he appears to live on tile edge of :reality. Before comin_g on stage Wright looked like he just came out of a sh month hibernation period,. and he sounded like he was on valium. However. this is the juice whieh helps make him a funny guy. As Wright walked hack and forth on stage scratching his head he dropped o-ne liners which had his audience throughout his perfoqnance what kind of drug he was on when he wrote h.is material. But then I remembered that Wright's drug is in his philosophical abstract view of Even though Wright's material was worth thinking about long after his performance was over, I was · disappointed that much of his act was made up of old material. In fact, there wasn't much comedy that was really new, but considering he did have an HBO special on T.V. · last year it must have been hard for him not to repeat alot of already funny material. Steven Wright describes his view of life as \from the perspective of a child\ using · ''the words of an adult.\ He is a talented comic who has a lot in his future to look forward to, but I Just wonder what would happen to him if he woke up on the wrong side of his b~d? By KIM CAREY \Sex lies and videotape\ has already been called the \Big Chill\ for the 1990's. In fact, the two movies are similar. Both movies involve slightly wacky people in their early thirties with a wide array of neuroses. However, don't .go to \sex lies and videotape\ expecting a · comedy even though there are a few funny points. his impotence. For Gram, videotaping women, speaking aoout sex, or masturbating bring him his only sexual excitement. Gram soon realizes that he has very little in common any more with John. However, Anne and John can really relate to one another. Anne reveals that she is afraid to talk about sex because she doesn't want to be anything like her loud and provocative sister. WeU, 1'm not going to give away any more of the plot except for saying that the excitement reaches its peak when Anne learns of her husband's infidelity with her sister. Gram is ·the focal character for his arrival changes the lives of Anne, John and Cypthia. · laughing and contemplating about concepts such as ... \I b(lught a cordless extension cord\ \I live on a one way dead end street\ and \If I wanted to shoot a mime would I use a silencer?\. This is just a sample of his unique EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY The movie begins with Anne, a chaste southern housewife (played by model Andie McDowell) speaking to her therapist about her obsession with dirt and garbage. She also admits that sex is not a big deal in her life. Anne thinks that her husband John seems to have lost interest in sex. Lo and behold we soon find out that John is having an affair with Anne's younger sister, Cynthia. The cinematography in \sex lies and videotape\ is extraordinary. It plays a major role in making the scenes more dramatic or erotic, whatever the case may be. \Sex lies and videotape\ may seem a little offbeat at first glance, but give it a try. It is definitely worth seeing. NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, 'Mlshington, DC 20036·2268 • The plot thickens when John's college buddy, Gram, whom he hasn't seen in nine yeaiS, comes to town for a visit. Gram has been through hard times. We find out later that these proble~s ha.-:e led to - imagination •.md r wondered A&E BRIEF-S Proctor's Theatre. Schenectady · 346-6204 Sat., Sept. 23 at 8 p.m. The Canadian Brass perform everything from Bach and Mozart to Gershwin and Dixieland. The Empire Center fer the Arts Alb any (The Egg) Sat., Sept. 23 at 8:30 p.m. Begonia, a band brimming with soulful originality and a blues/rock/folk twist. Union College Fri., Sept. 22 at 2 p;m. Music of India (in the Arts Building) Tues., Sept. 26 at 8 p.m. Tbe Westminister Piano Trio (1st Floor, Arts Building) Call Theaters for Show Titnes. s c R I M A R 0. E A M R . E u u M M E M M E R 0 M AN E s A N C K 0 N C R 0 S S S E A \A SEXY SIZZLER.\ .~an event.: i.J-.Nf. \>IIAU1 N/1( r\' 11U.It.ll'\\ \'\ .1\t TEQVILASUNB!SE A d1111gerous mix ~ ~~.. _. ......... 11 ~ . ····~···, ..... ,~ ............ ~ .. • o<OUO.oo .................... ON'\' .~a gem.: 1<\1.1\hl«tl tl,..\1 .... 1~-·'\ .:us ajewel...perfecL\ ~1/1 J/At.l lni.AI[!,l.R,VV UlSi'LVf,/1/\:< .:it deseroes a medal.\ .~an enduring classic.\ -lf\/'1-.k IM\'Io;H.., H..tJI'f.l AUI\\?IM. TEQUILA SUNRISE 7, 9, 11 Friday SS 016 7, 9, 11 Sat., Sun. College Center Auditorium THE PURPLE ROSE OF CAIRO 7, 9, 11 Wed., 9.27 College Center Auditorium ORGAN RECITAL SERIES ·survey of Masterworks for the Organ performed by: Hugh Allen Wilson, chairman, dept. of the Arts Dates: Mondays, beginning Sept. 25 Other dates: Oct. 2, 9, 16, 30; Nov. 6, 13 & 20 Time: 4:30-5:15 p.m. Memorial Chapel '

,, :l 'l l ; CONCORDIENSJS, September 21, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Steven Wright At Proctor's \Sex Lies And Videotape\ By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Editor On Friday, Sept. 15, Steven Wright brought to the Proctor's Theatre his slightly skewed observations on everyday life. It is hard to describe Wright's humor, but after 60 minutes of his comatose dead pan delivery I would have to say it rests somewhere between catatonic and the sublime. Wright is the type of man who probably sleeps in a bed which rests on a cliff in a random area of the world for he appears to live on the edge of reality. Before corning on stage Wright looked like he just came out of a six month hibernation period, and he sounded like he was on valium. However, this is the juice which helps make him a funny gl:ly. throughout his perfonpance what kind of drug he was on when he wrote his materi at. But then I remembered that Wright's drug is in his philosophical abstract view of time, space, and reality; and it is this s·urrealism which makes him different. Even though Wright's material was worth thinking .a bout long after his performance was over, I was disappointed that much of his . act was made up of old material. In fact, there wasn't much comedy that was really new, hut considering he did have an HBO special on T.V. last year it must have been hard · for him not to repeat alot of already funny material. Steven WFight describes his view of life as \from the perspective of a child\ using \the words of an adult.\ He is a talented comic who has a lot in his future to look forward to, but I just wonder what would happen f() him if he woke up on the wrong side of his bed? By KIM CAREY \Sex lies and videotape\ has already been called the \Big Chill\ for the 1990's. In fact, the two m<Jvies are similar. Both movies involve slightly wacky peo1Jle in their early thirties with a wide array of ne-wroses. l-i<J>Never, don't go to \sex lies and videotape\ expecting a comedy even though there are a few funny points. his impotence. For Gram, videotaping women, speaking about sex, or masturbating bring him his only se xu a! excitement. Gram soon realizes that he ha:-; very little in common any more with John. However, Anne and John can really relate to one another. Anne reveals that she is afraid to talk about sex because she doesn't want to be anything like her loud and prov{)cati ve sister. Well, I'm not going to give away any more of the plot except for saying that the excitement reaches its peak when Anne learns of her husband's infidelity witl1 her sister. Gram is the focal character for his arrival changes the lives of Anne, John and Cynthia. As Wright walked back and forth on stage scratching his head he dropped one liners which had his audience laughing and contemplating about concepts such as ... \I bought a cordless extension cord\ \I live on a one way dead end street\ and \If I wanted to shoot a mime would I use a silencer?\. This is just a sample of his unique imagination and I wondered EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY The mo\'Be begins with Anne, a chaste southern housewife (p!layed by model Andie McD-o:weli) speaking to her therapiis t about her obsession 'With dirt and garbage. Site also admits that sex is not a biig deal in her life. Anne thinks that her husband John seems to have lost interest in sex. Lo and behold we soon filld out that John is having an affair with Anne's younger sister, Cynthia. The cinematography in \sex lies and videotape\ is extraordinary. rt plays a major role in making the scenes more dramatic or erotic, whatever the case may be. \Sex lies and videotape\ may seem a 1 ittle offbeat at first glance, but give it a try. It i::; definitely worth seeing. NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, YVashington, DC 20036-2266 • The plot thickens when John's college buddy, Gram, whom he h<Jsn't seen in nine years, c ames. to town for a visit. Gram ltas been through hard times. We find out later that these prdnle:ns h<.ve led ~.a A&E BRIEF-S Proctor's Theatre. Schenectady 346-6204 Sat., Sept. 23 at 8 p.m. The Canadian Brass perform everything from Bach and Mozart to Gershwin and Dixieland. The Empire Center for the Arts Albany (The Egg) Sat., Sept. 23 at 8:30 p.m. Begonia, a band brimming with soulful originality and a blues/rock/folk twist. Union College Fri., Sept. 22 at 2 p.m. Music of India (in the Arts Building) Tues., Sept. 26 at 8 p.m. The Westminister Piano Trio (1st Floor, Arts Building) Parenthood The Package Cheetah and Friends Nightmare on Elm St. Part V Relentless Uncle Buck When Harry Met Sally Casualties of War Sea of Love Uncle Buck Turner & Hooch The Abyss When Harry Met Sally The Package Call Theaters for Show Times. ··Friday, .Septo 22nd at 2 p.m. Sol uti o;n to \Brush up on your Shakespeare\ MUCH LOVES FITS MUSIC OF INDIA in the Arts Building A Free Concert! \A SEXY SIZZLER.\ I TEQ!JILA SUNRJSE fi!J·n· A dmtgm•u:::.:.u,: ,. ,::~.:·:!::·.~ M A c A M R E 0 N ROSE .: pw~~ FJ\~!~f}!l{[[l,er 11: .::a11 t'll{_'rll.~ I.., '\-1.1 ,.,.._,. 1\ I If! IIHH >~• ~~ .:tt gern~ ~ • 'II' I' '1- ''\' t I'\ .: fl S a.JL 'li!.Y.{._pe~t( '(:f.\ \' of.<~ ,~, .,,._ • MI. , I' '\\ 1' I' I oU~ ~ .~il clesenr:tsn medal.\ .~an enrirrrfn.rJ dn•-;si£ ·: •'t • I 1< ..,.,1 \' It \'~I \tAo ,'1..'/\f TEQUILA SUNR!SE 7, 9, 11 Friday SS 016 7 ~ 9, I 1 Sat., Sun. College Center Auditorium THE PURPLE ROS!E OF CAIRO 7, 9, 11 Wed., 9.27 College Center Auditorium N NE A V 0 K A E R A N M A N U C K R 0 S S S E A ORGAN RECITAL SERIES Survey of Masterworks for the Organ performed b_y: Hugh Allen Wilson, chairmm.n~ depL of the Arts Dates: \1onda'·\· beginning Sept~:::: Other date\: Ck·t. ~. 1 ). 16, 3(); :\uv. (l, U & ,:?() Time: 4:30-:': 15 p.m. \1emorial Chapel

. . Page 20 CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Ni~:ht Supper Sept ... 26th - All Union students are invited touse meal card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC205 for supper a11d an informal discussion on \Is There More Than One Way To Pray?\ Folk Group - AU singers and musicians interested in being part <>f tile music · ministry at the 7:30 p.m. · Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the charch to rehearse. Eucharistic Ministers and Lectors - Any Union student who wishes to become a Eucharist Minister or a Lector please contact Sr. Joan (370- 6087) or at CC404B. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following ar~as at St. John's ·School: Pre SchoO>l, Kinder- garten, After School Play Program, LiiJrary and tutoring Math and Re:tding on a one to one. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231. Ove·rnight Retreat Friday, September 29th at 5:00 p.m. to Sat-urday, September 30th at 5:00 p.m. at: 1630 Nott Street. therne: The Risk of Being Myself. Donation of $7 when you register with Sr. Joan. CLASS1F1EDS Babysitter needed for one 18 month old child Tuesday & Thursdays L (}:00 arn-4:30 pm. Location: Niskayu.na, near Mohawk Mall Please call 382- 8106. Part-time babysitter needed. Must have own transportation. Please call 317-5527. Babysitter needed for 2-year- old. Tuesdar, wednesday, or Friday, 11:()0 a.m-3:00 pm. Must have ovvn transportation. Location: NiskaytJna. Please cal1346~7754. Part-time· Telemarketing. 2 shifts: 9:00 a.m-12:00 pm OR 5:30 pm-8:30 pm (Satur- days available 9am -1pm) $5.00 per llour or $7.50 per sale (which ever may be higher at the end of the week). 19/21 hours per week. Woodlawan Plaza, State Street, Schenec- tady. Call 370-0111 ask for Bill. Wanted!! Students and clubs to join tile '89-·9o student travel services' sales team. Earn · cash andlor. free winter and spring break vacations. Travel with the best to our exciting ski and su11 destinations. For more information call 1-800- 648-4875. Help Wamted: Working in a furniture store. All types of jobs available. If interested, please contact Mrs. Lee at 3374-7785 .. Personalized Mugs and other wonderful gifts. Two Spruce Pottery, 158 Jay Street, Tues.-Sat. 12- 5. 393-5011. For Sale: The Stereo System Sansai: P<Jwer Amp B2101 003THD at 20() UP Channel, Control Amp C2101, SP299. 4 spkers 320W each. DBX- 3BX Dynamic Range expander • CONCORDIENSIS, September 21~ 1 1989 CAMPUS NEWS Yamaha: CD3 CD Player, T80 Digital Tuner, JVC: QL Y66F Quartz locked auto tu.mtable cherry - bi~h gloss. Piollleer: SG90B K 17 band per channel graphic EQ- All about 3 yrs. old - excellent condition. 393-2085. PERSONALS Wb:oremoan, Oops! The time of your life at Ridgewood C. C. Jer. Nice Wheels! The Gang Snirl- HOow's your work going? Must be _great with all your free lime. Get a phone!! Love Mickey Hey Zim- Nice hat! Are you sure it's Kosher though? Erika and Michele, We hope you have arrived safely and no Roger Eatwell. Have you heard the chimes of the Abbey's bells'? The lluntsmen is right next door. - It's a good place to go. If you're ever bored. We know the University has kept you busy. We'll' be back next week with more clues so you don't get dizzy. Love Amy & Leslie. 1021- I Love You - I even love the panelling. Thanks for putting up with me! DearD.K.- Where have all the coonservatives gone. R- Love, Beck The Kinks Sari Showered. I h()pe your family is cool. Thanks for the postcard. I miss yo11. -E. 0 This week a,,. ihe. c0i1elJ$ .... ·· · ·. ·• Ce·n~t.e··rf':.· .. ·. ·· · · · .. :··· litt ~ ·9l21 c ' . ··- .. ·, ' ._.,'. • ' ~ • < • • ' • ( .··.·Thursday~. 9t2t-$n(l)Ft14ay, ~~2~t · .·. · ... ·· . · · · · ..•. ·. · · ···· · .:tfr~.t . ~r~~~~s . . . . .. . Front entrance •. . . . . . ! . .·. :. ,:_ • . .' ·_ .• ~ .... · .. . .. ,' -.-,·-.: . . ' '. ~. •. ' -·. ,. ::··Mo~da~,·~/26 .··•· .. ·.·· .. ·.. · · ·· . · .:i.h . · , . • · • f$~@:0 ; r · · .. ·•··• ... ····· ... ·. . . .. ·· \: \ ~ront.~ptr~no~'i· 1.-4 \~rn •. R·atnci~te ~12S · : . .· ... ~~:~ ·~~~·~~·~· -· ;;_< :Wednes~ay 1 9t~'7L ~- . . . ... < : . . . . : · · ... , , .... · :. ···: :.Ft:t~\' .. ;·~·;·,,th~l!.· . Purple\·· a·o$e :a·t· .. ·cairo''. · · · · · ··.· · · ·, · · 7~ 9,··11 ·.p.:m.,· · Auditorium ·. · · , · .. ·. · . .. . . ,. - ' •' '. ' . \-. ~. -.:.' ' { . \ :· ~ • • ; :. ~ •• • < : • • • ~- ~ ~ :.t . ;. ~ . \ ... :- :._· Tn1Jr$dayt 912tti.· . . . ·. · • .· :. . .. , . . . . . < • ; ..• · ~tnefir~ ~~~r~~ 1 ~~~-· ~~·.~~k·•·.A~ter .· ''. . . :\ ~ ~--\ ,l .· ·Friday. ~/29 .. :- . . ' • ,- n ',• <-. ,·',• • ._,. · . Pt;o:cto~r's - H'MS .· Pi.n·afore . Jr .. ~ :Rep·resf:n'ltative. · . El·ectlo·.ns ..... Friday1 9/29 Thru ·sunday, 1011 .. '· . . .. •. . . . . . F1l:m ·\Dangerous · 7, 9, 11 :p.m. · .. .liaSORS·· ·' •

Page 20 CL VB NEll'S NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Night Supper - Sept. 26th - All Union student<; are invited to use meal card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC205 for supper and an informal discussion on \Is There More Than One Way To Pray?\ Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Eucharistic Ministers and Lectors - Any Union student wlilO wishes to become a Eucharist Minister or a Lector please contact Sr. Joan (370- 6087) or at CC404B. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Pre School, Kinder- garten, After School Play Program, Library and tutoring Math and Reading on a one to one. Please con tact Sheila Humiston 372-923 L Overnight Retreat Friday, September 29th at 5:00 p.m. to Saturday. September 30th at 5:00p.m. at 1630 Nott Street. theme: The Risk of Being Myself. Donation of $7 when you register with Sr. Joan. CLASSIFIEDS Babysitter needed for one 18 month old child Tuesday & Thursdays 10:00 am-4:30 pm. Location: Niskayuna, near Mohawk Mall. Please call 382- 8106. Part-time babysitter needed. Must have own transportation. Please call 377-5527. Babysitter needed for 2-year- old. Tuesday, wednesday, or Friday, 11:00 am-3:00 pm. Must have own transportation. Location: Niskayuna. Please call 346-77 54. Part-time· Telemarketing. 2 shifts: 9:00 am-12:00 pm OR 5:30 pm-8:30 pm (Satur- days available 9am -1pm) $5.00 per hour or $7.50 per sale (which ever may be higher at the end of the week). 19/21 hours per week. W oodlawan Plaza, State Street, Schenec- tady. Call 370-0111 ask for Bill. Wanted!! Students and clubs to join the '89-'90 student travel services' sales team. Earn cash and/or free winter and spring break vacations. Travel with the best to our exciting ski and sun destinations. For more information call l-800- 648-4875. Help Wanted: Working in a furniture store. All types of jobs available. If interested, please contact Mrs. Lee at 3374-7785. Personalized Mugs and other wonderful gifts. Two Spruce Pottery, 158 Jay Street, Tues.-Sat. 12- 5. 393-5011. For Sale: The Stereo System Sansai: Power Amp B2101 003THD at 200 UP Channel, Control Amp C2101, SP299. 4 spkers 320W each. DBX- 3BX Dynamic Range expander. CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS Yamaha: CD3 CD Player, T80 Digital Tuner, JYC: QLY66F Quartz: locked auto turntable cherry - high glos!i. Pioneer: SG90BK 17 band per channel graphic EQ - All aboat 3 yrs. old- excellent conditio11. 393-2085. PERSONALS Whoremoan, Oops! The time of your life at Ridgewood C. C. Jer, Nice Wheels! The Gang Shirl - How's your work going? Must be great with all your free time. Get a phone!! Love Mickey Hey Zim- Nice hat! Are you sure it's Kosher though? Erika and Michele, We hope you have arrived safely and no Roger Eatwell. Have you heard the chimes of the Abbey's bells? The huntsmen is right next door.- It's a good place to go. If you're ever bored. We know the University has kept you lmsy. We'll be back next week with more clues so you don't get dizzy. Love Amy & Leslie. 1021- I Love You- I even love the panelling. Thanks for putting up with me! Dear D.K.- Where have all the conservatives gone. R- Love, Beck The Kinks Sari Showered. I hope your family is cool. 'Thanks far the postcard. I miss you. -E. (.) This Week at the Co:llege Center: 9121 - 9/27 Thursday, 9/21 and Friday, 9/22 Trent Graphics Front entrance Saturday, 9/25 Frisbee Contest West Beach, 12 noon Monday, 9/25 E.xpo Front entrance, 1-.4 p.m. Raindate 9/26 Ven·dor - Cotton Clothing 10-5 Wednesday, 9/27 Film: \The Purple Rose of Cairo\ 7, 9, 11 p.m.- Auditorium t Thursday, 9/28 Minerva Hour: Speaker Dick Adler 11-12 noon Friday, 9/29 Proctor's - HMS Jr. Representative Friday, 9/29 Thru Sunday, 10/1 Film \Dangerous 7, 9, 11 p.m. Pinafore Elections Liasons ~: i.

• PERSONALS Cheryl- You're doing great as pres no! Keep up the great work and let's get more Portugal wine soon! Love always - \Dean\ C . ' are. Eey - 'I miss our crazy morning C()ffee binges, but weU make it up wfcappucino in the aftemoon. Miss you. -Dina Bean Nouri.zadeh: rm glad we made · \New Leaf II\ - It was necessary and worth it. -Schweitz C- I miss you. Thanks for the s11rprise. Peggy and Pan are awesome. We can't wait to see )'011. -E. C an().R, Remember Grampy's. I l.ove 'Y 011 gu.ys, · P.S. BUl'ger King has been renovated and looks great. Green Snot, -E. Ih.o:pe everythin's going great. · This poem is second rate. I love you and miss our lunches, talks, etc. Take Care. -Lan. The Boys of Phi Gamma Delta Get ready for a gourmet feast! SllZanne, The Broccoli at Carnegie isn't as green without you. We miss y()u! Leslie and Elam1a Delta's, Get Psyched for the boat bash! ! ! Who is taking Bartles and James on the cruise? Dave·- You <>we me an A-Plus run and a chocolate milk! Love, Becky Stillntan good luck this weekelld! Love, Beclcy · CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS Interested in Rushing a Fraternity? Page 21 All freshmen men considering fratern.ity·rush should attend the informational meeting RUSH CONVOCATION September 26 Tuesday, at 7:30 p(m in the College Center Auditorium ALL FRATERNITY HOUSES WILL HAVE REPRESENTATIVES PRESENT TO SPEAK WITH AFTERWARDS Good Luck Kevin! Laurel & Andrea, How psyched are e? Ou.r room is awesome! I Love You Guys! Stephanie Larissa- ! miss you!! -Michele Beth- Chrissy~ Alexis (demon) and Liza.- . · P.S. You too Tony. Catch all the excitement of Union College football on WRUC 89.7 FM. Tune in on Sarurday for\ countdown to touchdown\ at 1:00 and kickoff at 1:30 as Union visits Hobart. Stay tuned at halftime for a talk with Cincinnati Bengal Rich Romer (Union '8-8). Let's start our own SADD Chapter. Love Jules You. are the greatest roomies! Get psyched for an awesome year; Be prepared for some nigh.tmarish twin stories - love your evil twin. P.S. Liza stay away from Jeck:el. Cybil . Melissa, Nancy, Kiisten, Ruth, and Rachel, r Miss You Guys! Love, Stephanie Eve Lynn· Hallie · · . Let 1 s have an amazing year! I Miss you tons just don't forget , . Love You! to rome back! Cathy and Lina Wendy and all other Italy poople: I MISS YOU! Please write witlt tile scoop! Love, Becky •· Brand. Get out from in front of the 1V! Stephanie Liz,. Cheer Up and Smite - Love, Stephanie 714 Union, So far so good. .. a drug bust to the left and a Peeping Tom to the right artd the seven of us Love, Becky i · right smack in the middle!! Twerp, Card out, security Janice, you live here? Sorry, search party was not as big as Rob's! but still worried! Little Big Guy, Another year, another fruitful October? LoveMe , Cath, Rumor bas it that you make awesome sandwiches ... Love, Lina Karen~ My pants are drying on the curtain rod, Could you please throw on the wipers when you're finished licking the wallpatper? John C. Catch all the excitement of Union College football on WRUC 89.7 FM. Tune in on Saturday for \Countdown to touchdown\ at 1:00 and kick off at 1:30 as Union visits Hobart. Stay tuned at halftime for a talk with Cincinnati Bengel Rich Romer (Union '88). Stillman- When are we going to hang out?! I never see you! Your buddy in North. 854 Union- Where barefoot elegance is a way of life! As a campus representative you,l be responsible for placing advertising materials oh bulletin boards and working on marketing programs for ~!Ients such as American Express, Boston University. Eurall, and various movie companies, among others. Part-dme work, choose your own flours. No sales. Many of our reps stay with us long alter graduation. If you are self-motivated, hard- working, and a bit of an ·entrepreneur, call or write for more lnlormatlon to: AMERICAN PASSAGE NElWORK 6211 W. HOWARD STREET CHICAGO,Il 60648 1 (800) 7Zi'·6783 or (312) 647-6860 CHICAGO DALLAS LOS ANGELES NEW YORK SEAfn.E

PERSONALS Cheryl- You're doing great as pres no! Keep up the great work and let's get more Portugal wine soon! Love always - \:Dean\ Care! Hey - I miss our crazy morning coffee binges, but we'll m.ake it up w/cappucino in the afternoon. Miss you. -Dina Bean Nourizadeh: I'm glad we made · \New Leaf IT\ - It was necessary and worth it. -Schweitz C- I miss you. Thanks for the surprise. Peggy and Pan are awesome. We can't wait to see you. -E. C and R, Remember Grampy's. I Love You guys, P.S. Burger King has been renovated and looks great. Green Snot, -E. I hope everythin's going great. This poem is second rate. I love you and miss our lunches, talks, etc. Take Care. -Lan. The Boys of Phi Gamma Delta Get ready for a gourmet feast! Suzanne, 'The Broccoli at Carnegie isn't as green without you. We miss you! Leslie and Elanna Delta's, Get Psyched for the boat bash! ! ! Who is taking Bartles and James on the cruise? Dave- You owe me an A-Plus run and a chocolate milk! Love, Becky Stillman good luck this weekend! Love, Becky Chrissy, Alexis (demon) and Liza- You are the greatest roomies! Get psyched for an awesome year; Be prepared for some nightmarish twin stories - love your evil twin. Cybil P.S. Liza stay away from Jeckel. CONCORDIENSIS, September 21, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS r----------------------- ATTENTION EN! Interested in Rushing a Fraternity? Page 21 All freshmen men considering fraternity rush should attend the informational meeting RUSH CONVOCATION Tuesday, September 26 at 7:30 pm in the College Center Auditorium ALL FRATERNITY HOUSES WILL HAVE REPRESENTATIVES PRESENT TO SPEAK WITH AFTERWARDS Good Luck Kevin! Laurel & Andrea, How psyched are e? Our room is awesome! I Love You Guys! Stephanie P.S. You too Tony. Melissa, Nancy, Kristen, Ruth, and Rachel, I Miss You Guys! Love, Stephanie Eve Lynn- Catch all the excitement of Union College football on WRUC 89.7 FM. Tune in on Saturday for \countdown to touchdown\ at 1 :00 and kickoff at 1:30 as Union visits Hobart. Stay tuned at halftime for a talk with Cincinnati Bengal Rich Romer (Union '88). Twerp, Card out, security Janice, you live .here? Sony, search party was not as big as Rob's! but still worried! Little Big Guy, Larissa- I miss you!! -Michele Beth- Let's start our own SADD Chapter. Love Jules Hallie - Let's have an amazing year! I Miss you tons just don't forget : LcJve You! Anotller year, another fruitful October? Catch all the excitement of Union College football on WRUC 89.7 FM. Tum: in on Saturday for \Countdow11 to touchdown\ at 1:00 and. kick off at 1:30 as Union visits Hobart. Stay tuned at halftime for a talk with Cincinnati Bengel Rich Romer (Uni<Jn '88). As a campus representative you11 be responsible for placing advertising materials on bulletin boards and work! ng on marketing programs for clients such as American Express, Boston University, Eurall, and various movie co mpanles, among others. Part-time work, choose your own hours. No sales. Many of our reps stay with us long after graduation. If you are self-motivated, hard- working, and a bit of an entrepreneur, call or write for more Information to: to come back! Cathy and Lina , Wendy and all other Italy people: I MISS YOU! Please write with the scoop! Love, Becky · Brand, Get out from in front of the TV! Love, Becky Stephanie Liz;, Cheer Up and Smile - Love, Stephanie 714 Union, s(:) far so good ... a drug bust to the left and a Peeping Tom to the right and the seven of us right smack in the middle!! Love Me Cath, Rum()r has it that you make awesome sandwiches ... Love, Lina Karen, My pants are drying on the curtain rod. Could you please throw on the wipers when you're finished licking the wallpatper? John C. Stillman- When are we going to hang out?! I never see you! Y\our buddy in North. 854 Union- Where barefoot eleg3Il(;e is a way of life! AMERICAN PASSAGE NETWORK 6211 W. HOWARD STREET CHICAGO, IL 60648 1 (800) 727-6783 or (312) 647-6860 CHICAGO DALLAS LOS ANGELES NEW YORK SEATTl.E

. , . ... !' Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS~ Septem,ber 21, 1989 ~ . .. - . . CAMPUS NEWS • zn • • oznln ntereste a ororit ? • Come to an informational \GO GREEK'' meeting Tonight! 8:00 p.m. in the College Center Auditorium FRESHMAN···RECORDSFOR··sAtE. '. t ~- ' . ·AT UNlON.COLLE:GE.BOOKSTOBE ... ·· .· .... · CLASS OF I 993 -$10.00- cLAss <>F 1992 - $5.oo · SUPPLY LlMITE.D Weekly CrQssword \BRUSH UP ON YOUR SHAKESPEARE;' By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 \--Ado About Nothing\ 5 \_._Labor lost\ 10 Seizures 14 Celebes ox 15 Silly . 15 Bard's home 17 Upright wall support 18 \Taming of the Shrew\ musical 20 Unit of weight 21 Ionian City 22 Ms. Taylor: Actress 23 To educate 25 New lealand tree 27. Shakespeare product 29 Sir John __ Shakespeare's clown 33 Perhaps 34 Cleanse 35 New {prefix) 36 Offerings to tile poor · 37 Cuban dance 38 Caesar's fateful day 39 Suffix 40 Juliet's beau 41 Shakespeare had a way with these 42 Shakespeare's troubled father 44 Without proboscis {2 wds) 45 Fewer 46 \He was the noblest --~of them all\ 47 South American weapons 50 Melville .protagonist 51 Stevedore's union 54 \_ Night's Dream\ 57 Peruse 58 Depencl on 59 Polite negative (2 wds) 60 Charctcter in 54 across 61 Genetit acids 62 Ba£1 ttJmper 63 On tile Pacific DOWN 1 Sa it .support 2 \Golden Rule\ word 3 \Friends RGm;~ns .• .. 4 Possessed 5 \Asyou ___ \ 6 Te.arf11l vege1al:lle at timts 7 Precelles \AR\: Woman's coUege 8 Naval Officer (abv) 9 Theological $CIIool (abv) 10 Mak.e believe {2 wds) 11 The T1miMe 12 L11g 13 Dagger 19 Obli1erate 21 Use !lie VCR 24 BarbettJe specialties 25 Greta _____ _____ 26 __ Korb11t: Russian Gymnast 27 Wallop 28 Precedes \'GRAPHY\: Fancy penmaRshlp 29 Defense de_: \No smakinu .. 30 Sllalaspeare's Titus 31 Provides sustenance 48 warning sign 32 Bob 49 Girl's nam~ Choreograpller 50 Food tor an M·1 34 Cougars 52 Tatting product 37 Kind of deer (plural) 53 Singer Paul 38 Island in the Hebrides 55 Mom's brother for short · 40 Without \R's\ 56 Precedes \TIMER;': One 41 Uterus ot Bergen's dum\'ies 43 _ Knight and the Pips· 57 Saratoga for one 44 Without weapons (2 wds) See Arts 46 ostricMike .bird$ & Entertainment 47 William Shakespeare for for Answers one ©1989·GFR Associates A:ll Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Scheflectady, N.Y. 12309 .. . . . ~ -.. . . . . EDITOR'S NOTE / \POMP AND CIRCUMSTANCE'' will be our new .. carto.on this year. Berke Breathed, the cartoonist of \Bloom County\ retired this past summer, and we therefore had to select a new comic for the campus news section. We, the editors, hope you · enjoy it. USE TRASH cANst

. CONCORDlENS/S, September 21.r 198.'1 Page 23 Cl!nncnrilitnsis SPORTS Offensive :Li.ne ior Dutchmen is Key to Victory .~ -- 1op row: Anthony Priore and Jason Evans Bottom. Row: Bill Dean, Dam Ricciardi and Jac.k Catanzo By MARK T. ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor The Union College Athlete of the Week award goes to tlle entire offensive line of tile Dutchmen football sq11ad this week. In U11ion's season ()pener against Rochester liist Saturday, the line pr()vided sophomore quarterback· Brett Russ the time he needed and continua1ly opened up huge holes for the running backs. The li11:e is made up of guards, senior Jack Catanzaro and scphomore Bill Dean, center junior Dom Ricciardi and taddes; junior Anthony Priore and Sophomore Jason Evans. These five played outsta11di.ng football for four quarters and as a result, Union ran for 183 yards and Russ was able to complete 16 of 27 passes for· 262 yards and was named ECAC Player of the Week i11 doing so. Lasr'season the Dutchmen were plagued with injuries and the offellsive line was hit hard. SPO·RTSWEEK Thursday, September 21 Varsity 'Field HQckey vs. Rochester Saturday, Septem'ber 23 Football at Hobart Men~s Soccer at Binghamton Varsity Soccer vs. Mt. Holyoke .women's Volleyball · Ur1ion lnvitatior~al Women's Tennis vs~ North Adams Cross Country at Williams Invitational . . sunday, September 24 JV Football at Williams Tuesday, September 26 Women's Volleyball at New Paltz Wednes.day, Se,ptember · 27 Men's Soccer at Middlebury · Field .H()ckey vs Oneonta . . JV Fif1!d _Hockey vs Hamilton Women's Tennis vs One<in1a 7:00 1:30 2:0.0 1 :{)0 9:on 1:00 2:00 6:00 3:30 3:3:0 :3:30 3::30 Because of that, the coaching staff was able to move players around which resulted in several younger players seeing a lot of playing time. Although the season is young the Dutchmen look to have a solid line to lead the way for the backs and protect Russ. Once again, congratulations to Jack Catanzaro, Bill Dean, Dom Ricciardi, Anthony Priore and Jason Eva11s as this week's Players of the Week. ·wRUC 89.7 FM proudly presents: LIVE FOOTBALL Union vs. Hobart Saturday, Sept. 23 1 :00 countdown to Touchdown 1 :30 Kickoff ... and at halftime a talk with ..... Rich Romer .. Cincinnati Bengals Union '88 ,_.,. ... ~ __ .. _,-~.-.···.\\'· ~-\~ Mouthing Off By ANDY B:RAVER first round draft picks get so Welcome back sports fans, I've missed you! What I really want to do is recap all or the memorable sporting events which occurred over this extremely short and face-paced summer. Hqwever, that's boring, and anyway a true sports fan would not have missed a single day of the New York Rangers' three month odyssey in search of a new coaclt and general manager. Instead, I have decided to focus on professional football. · Now I am sure you are wondering what derogatory statements can be made about the game after the Philadelphia Eagles' incredible 42-37 comeback victory against the Redskins in Washington this past Sunday, but believe me there are many. I'll just try to keep them to a minimum because I don't want to spoil the taste of that spectacular game. First of aH, why did it take 30 minutes to play under 5 minutes of football and over 1 hour to play the fourth quarter in the Eagles' win? It was as if there was a beer commercial after every play. If I see Dwight Clark and his hands of glue stick to that waitress' sleeve again, or even worse, Bob Uecker trying to trade his baseball card for a case of some 'watered down version of a regular beer,' I'll go nuts. But now that I think of it, that may be the p11rpose of the ads - to drive you so crazy that you have to go out and buy some of the beer so you can. throw a few cans at your television set. Another thought came to mind while flipping the chcmnels to avoid more commercials. The game on after the Redskins and Eagles was the New York Giants versus the Detroit Lions. Now by no stretch of the imagination was this a great game to watch, but it certainly had its exciting moments. Fortunately,· none of those moments came while we were awaiting the conclusion of the first game, which ended at4:38. p.m. Kickoff at Giant Stadium ws at 4:05, but because of the length of the Eagles' victory, we missed the first 18 minutes of action from the Meadowlands. I do not have a problem with the fact that 18 minutes of generic football were not televised. But what if the situation was reversed and we missed the first 18 minutes of the Redskins and Eagles. The Rcdskins scored 20 points· in the first five minutes. Thirty- follr points were scored in the first quarter. It was one of the best quarters of football I have ever seen. If the N .F.L. does not change its policy about· not leaving a televised .game until it is over, some of the best moments in the future will also be missed. I guess that is the price fans have to. pay when tn(}ney is involved. -5peaki'1g nf mcmey, ·why tJo · much of it when many actually contribute very little to their teams? It is a question that I think teams should address. The majority of this year's first round picks missed som ... · nr all of training camp. Of course, · players like Barry Sanders will have an immediatge impact on their teams because their teams are awful. Furthermore, all Sanders ,has to do is run forward with the pigskin and avoid the bad guys. But for a lineman or a defensive back. it · is. much more difficult to come right in and contribute. Take Brian Willims of the New York Giants. He was drafted in the middle of the first round and he signed for middle of the road first round money. But because he missed so much of training camp, he is really not worth the money he is making this season. The Giants drafted Williams with hopes that he would become a starter this year, but now he is their eighth lineman. He should get paid according to his production, at least this season. Next year, after a full training camp and a year under his belt, he should get the money that he is getting now. I saw an interview with Giant's Coach Bill Parcells before William., signed, and he summed up the first-rounder problem very well. Parcells said that in the past trading a first round pick would be like giving away the franchise. Btlt now a first round pick is almost useless, and he would be very willing to trade a pick for a quality veteran who can contribute. A perfect first round bust is Giants' guard Eric Moore, who was last year's first round pick. He missed camp his rookie year, and now he is the seventh lineman on the team. That is not what one would call productive drafting, but the jury is still out on Moore and Williams. Only time will tell, but it shouldn't take so long to find out if they will become 'quality veterans.' My last point has to do with noise. Fans pay good money to go to football games so they can drink beer, while avoiding the commercials, and scream while sitting out in the cold (that is, unless the home team play in a dome). But now the NFL owners have passed . a rule penalizing home teams for crowd noise. I can see the scoresboards now: \SHUT UP!\ What's next, penalizing the team because the grounds crew didn't do a good job of painting the end zones, or because a player's shoes don't match his uniform. This is football, not tennis. Football fans are not civilized, and neither are the owners for that matter. Th~y'have tnore to lose than any fan watching his team, and they make more noise at games than most fans. So if the owners stop cheering for their teams, maybe the league can ju~tify it~;cff for ·rena-Iiting the nnw&.

Union back Vladimir T~lemaque goes over two def~nders as Union defeated Rochester 28·6. Th~ Rugby team Is back In action tills fall, looking better than ever. Men's C~oss Country Opens Season With a Victory By MIKE MARTINEZ The men's Varsity Cross Country team began their season this past Saturday with a dual meet against Oneonta State, and for the first time in over a decade the course was on Union College grounds. The eight kilometer (5 mi) course, which starts and finishes behind the football bleachers, includes' a trip through Jackson's Gardens, around the rugby field, and of course the infamous \campus loop.\ The men's team felt they bad their first shot at winning a dual meet in over two years and they were hungry. · The first mile of the race went quite smoothly, except for a slight mishap in the Gardens where an Oneonta runner took a fall (no thanks to Doug \the hitman\ Martocci). The race was still close through two miles, but thanks to some dynamic team running and bold strategic moves by Jon \Mr. Reconnaissance\ Rosenfeld, Union was able to knock out Oneonta' number two runn~r in the third mile. Union clinched the race in the last two miles by separating themselves still farther from the Oneonta squad. Union's top finisher was Mike Martinez, who placed second overall with a time of 28:13. Personal bests were turned in by Jon Rosenfeld and Dirk \the machine\ Gunther, a WestGennan foreign exchange student studying Computer Science at Union. Their times were 28:36 and 28:39 respectively. Rounding out Union's top five were outstanding pesrformances by co-captain Doug Martocci, who placed seventh, and transfer student on \GO SU!\ Dubow, who Onished eighth. The Union squad also received strong performances from Rich \Gumby\ Zembeck and team philosopher Ed Rothenburg, who helped shut out Oneonta's fourth and fifth men. The final score was Union 35 and Oneonta24. This Saturday Coach Dave Herrington will lead the men's and women's teams out to Williams College for their annual invitational meet and then on Sat., Sept. 30 both teams return to Union for a home meet versus Hamilton College. Please come out and show your support or just yell from your window if that is more convenient. Fencing Club Begins 7th Season lJy GARY LAMBERT While unknown to many, Union College has an active fencing club on campus. This year marks the seventh season that our fencers will compete at various local and state competitions. Union has never hosted any intcraollegiate tournaments of its own. However that will change this coming Sunday when the area's first fencing competition will be held in the Memorial Fieldhouse. Fencers from RPI, Vassar, U Mass, and SUNY New Paltz are among those expected to attend. All three weapons classes, foil, sabre, and epee, will be fenced in both men's and women's groups. Union is to be represented by veteran club members Ken Oroz, Jean-Claude Abed, Dave Medich, Keith Sultan, Virginie Melio, and Gary Lambert; while several new members, including two Hungarian students, will be present as well. Everyone is welcome to attend this unique competition begins at 10:00 a.m. with the finals to be held around 1:00. Anyone having any interest in learning to fence ot improving their skills please contact Gary Lambert at 374-3239. September 21 , 1'989 Dutchmen Foo Hangs Jackets By ANDREW SEEWALD The Union offense met the high standards of the Union defence and together they greeted the University of Rochester's Yellowjacke.ts with a 28-6 whipping last Saturday afternoon at Frank Bailey Field. The victory was the second straight for the Dutchmen on the · season. Going back to last year, they have now won four in a row. It is premature to label the team with tags of greatness, but on Saturday the elements of success were displayed on both sides of the line of scrimmage, and the results · showed up on the scoreboard, if not immediately. The first half saw both teams put together several long drives only to be stopped deep in the other team's territory, Union finally seized an opportunity in the closing minutes of the half, however. Rochester had the ball, third down and three from their own 27. Quarterback Jim Polcyn found tight end Doug Hand open up the middle. If Hand makes the catch, the Yellow Jackets will likely have the first touchdown of the game. But Union defensive back Eric Tryon got over in time to put a helmet on the ball and knock it out of Hand's : hands for an incompletion. 'After a short punt, the Dutchmen took over on the Rochester 48. Following two incompletions, sophomore quarterback Brett Russ hit a streaking Gene Ray over the middle. Ray outraced the YellowJacketdefense and, after Scott Goodwin's extra. point, the Dutchmen led 7-0, which was the halftime score. It was ~the second big touchdown reception of the season for Ray, a sophomore. He was the receiver for the s.core that enabled the Dutchmen to come from behind to beat St. Lawrence, 14-13, two weeks ago. The second half featured continued dominance by the Union defense, which, despite losing the shoutout, actually got stronger as the game progressed. With 9:35 left in the third quarter, Greg Hallas and Bryan Paris combined to sack Polcyn and force a fumble, which Union recovered on the Rochester 28-yard line. Nine seconds later, a Russ-to-Ryan Mason-back-to-Russ-an'd-on-to Mark Callahan-in-the-end-.zone flea-flicker gave Union a 14-0 lead. By this point it was obvious that this game was a complete turn around from the 28-3 shellacking the Jackets handed Union at Rochester last year. Rochester did score a touchdown late in the third quarter, but missed the extra point and never threatened again. That's because the Dutchmen roared back against what had been a tough Rochester defense to restore the two touchdown bulge. Russ converted some dutch third down passes to keep alive what would be a 63- yard drive culminating with a 4- yard run by Russ on a naked bootleg. Union's final score came on a third down touchdown pass to junior tight end Mario DiLoreto. But perhaps more important than the clutch third down passing was the passing on flrst and second down that kept Rochester off-balance· all game. The Jackets never knew what to expect, and the result was terrific. success by the Dutchmen both in the air and on the ground, where Mason led all rushers with 81 yards on 18 carries. DiLoreto and Pat Ahearn each had four catches to lead the team. The Dutchmen travel to Geneva this Saturday to take on the Hobart Statesmen. Last year at Frank Bailey Field, Hobart scored its only points on an interception return as Union prevailed, 21-7. All of the Union-Hobart action can be heard on 89.7 FM WRUC, beginning at 1:00 p.m. An interview w.ith Cincinnati Bengal and Union alumnus Rich Romer will be aired at halftime. Staying At Union This Weekend? Watch The Varsity Men's Soccer and Women's Tennis Games.

.. .llege 1877 Vol. CXIX, No. 2 Schenectady, New York September 28, 1989 Men's Rugby: Admini·stration Reneges On Promise;· Sells Girling Center Nott 'To Receive Club Susp.ended Following Alcohol- Related Incident. By JAY FREELAND News Edcitor On September 27. 1989. the Union College Men~s Rugby Club was suspended for violations of the Union College Student Conduct Code. In a 'letter from Dean of Students Joseph. Mamrnola and Assistant Dean of Students Fred Alford, the club was informed that their suspension was effective immediately following the last game of the 1989 Fall season. The v·iolations cited in the letter were in reference to an incident at a fraternity house following team practice on September 15 of this year . According to the account, a Union College woman \was abducted by members of l,he Men's Rugby Club and forcibly carried to a fraternity house.\ The .student c1aims she was forced to remain at the house while \intoxicated\ team members sang \obscene\ songs to her. The Men's Rugby Club was charged with sections I and III of the Student Conduct Code and found guilty by Alford following an investigation. As a result. the team has been suspended for the Spring season of the 1989-90 academiC year. Prior scheduling commitments were the criteria for not receiving immediate suspension. Effective immediately, the team can no longer receive funding from the Student Form. The letter concluded by stating that any further violations this fall would result in immediate suspension tmd that the club may not petition for teinstatment any earlier than August of 1990. By BRAD MONUSCHEIN General Manager On June 11, 1989, the Board af Trustees approved' the sale of the Girting Center to A.W. Lawrence. The school sold the property for $18,000 a:n acre. Tile company promised a minimum paym·.ent of $900,000, since the exact· acreage has not been surveyed yet. The acreage is believed to be between 52 and 53 acres. · · Jchn Hauser, Vice-President for ·. Finance and Administration, .. said that \the sale will be final . . by the end of October.\ The ·. C<lmpany, A.W. Lawrence, told · tile school that the property . will be used for their corporate . Ooffices, although there is no · restriction on what the land C()uld be used for. The school acquired the . property in 1970. Four years after the buy, Union placed the · Girling Center on the market · to be sold. In 1985, the school took the property off the . market due to student protest. The Administration sent a call out to students asking them for feasible suggestions for the use . of the property. Since 1985, the school has received inquiries into the sale of the . Girling Center, but the offers were refused for various reasons. The present offer came to the · · school· in January or February. C()ncordiensis received ififonnation during Spring term from an anonymous source , infonning the paper that the • Girling Center was up for sale. . The paper was directed to Jack · . Maranville, Vice-President of Institutional Planning. He told · Co·ncordiensis that \the studems would be informed of any sale of the Girling Cen-ter.\ He went on to say that \the Board of Trustees will have to approve the sale.. The Board meetings are attended by stud~nt representatives and are cevered by the paper.\ Neither the student representatives nor Coocordiensis could inform students about the Trustees meeting because it occurred on · the day of Commencement. Mr. Hauser continued to explain that the \Planning and Priorities commitee met one month before the Trustees meeting\ to look over the proposal. He said \it is up to the three student representatives on the committee to inform the students of the sale.\ In fact, the Planning and Priorities Cemmittee met only six days before the Board of Trust~es, on June 5, 1989. This was during finals week and was not attended by the students. According to Professor Chades Tidmarch, \~he committee is advisory and does not make the final decisions.\ Therefore, the students on the committee did not have :any power to block the sale. When Mr. Hauser was asked \In other words, the students did not have a ch.ance to block the sale?,\ he responded with the chance in 1985 to suggest a feasible use for the properly. When he was informed that the Seniors arrived at Union in 1986. he did not comment. The money .acquired from the sale will go to the endowment fund. The money will be used on an emergency basis if the Board of Trustees approves its use. IFC Places Fraternity On Rush Probation By ELISE FOODY News Editor This past Monday evening, the Inter-Fraternity Council voted to place an anonymous fraternity on rush probation for the Fall term of this year. The . fraternity was found guilty of inviting freshmen prospectives to dine with them at various . Iu11ches and dinners before the official rush period began. According to Arthur Hudson, President of the IFC, the Committee is attempting to set a precedent to notify other fraternity houses that actions will be taken as a result of rush violations. Members of the Conduct Committee include Arthu.r Hudson, Steve Bordonaro, Craig Ferrero, Brad Close and John Walls. The Committee further concluded that the cited fraternity may continue their current rush program, but if they are found guilty of one more rush violation, they could lose their rush privileges for this academic year. $3 Million In Reconstruction Funding By KELLY McGOWAN Tllis past summer, on the morning of June 28, a 48 square foot section of the outside wall of the Nott Memorial fell to the ground leaving a gaping hole. The news of this deterioration was cover~d by aU three local television stations, various radio stations, and the Times Union and the Schenectady Ga.zette. Shortly after, the admi11istration called in a structu.ral engineering firm, Ryan and Biggs of Troy, New Yor.k, to give an assessment of Premature reconstruction of the Nott Memorial began this past sumrner. the damage. The result of their immediate consultation was the placement of beams strapped to two c()rners. The hole was filled with bricks to stabilize these corners from further deterioration. Currently, the firm is nducting a more in-depth study. The deterioraLion has closed one entrance into the N ott, and thus, the Nott is now a safety hazard. A building must have at least tw() fire exits in order to hold public events. The College's application for state money through the 1986 Environmental Quality Bond Act was approved with an awa1d of $300,000 over the summer. Thi·s stale funding was granted to the College on August 14, and must be matched with an additional $300,000 from the College. The College may :apply two more times through this state program for additional funding. At the September 16 Alumni Council meeting, Vice- President Rasmussen opened wilh an announcement that the College will embark on an exterior restoration of the Nou with a price tag of $3 million and that the funds must be raised for the project. During the ensuing discussion, Vice- President Rasmussen assured the Alumni that the integrity of the building would be maintained and that it would be returned to its original state. President Morris ilally stated that the exterior restoration of the Nott Memorial needs to be done now and that it will be done. \There was much support from the Alumni during the discussion for the project, however, many of their comments called for a full restoration, both exterior and interior, with it becoming a place to promote the very rich heritage of Union College,\ says Keith Bemis, president of . the Restore the Nott Student Initiative. The Restore the Nott Student Initiative is very pleased with the administration's movement on the $3 million exterior restoration project. However, the group agrees with the alumni that they would like to see a full restoration of the Nott Memorial. On September 27, the Department of the Interior visited Union to tour the Nott with the administration and members of the Restore the . Nott Student IJ\itiative. Anyone interested in becoming a part of the Restore the Nott Student Initiative should contact Keith Bemis at 374- 3239. Cl a: ~ ~ z ···. 0 (f) 3 .q; ~ ~ 0 . :I: . . . ~ Phot<l of the Week • Kenya Lenoir demonstrates her favorite dancirlg technique. i , ' ,

Page 2 i*. CONCORDIENSlS, Septemfler 28, 1989 (!tnn cnr blensis Tennis , ith George By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Six months ago, if one was to propose the question, \Is there a possibility that Eastern Europe might regain their freedom?\ the questioner would have to accept a jeering laugh ia reply. In fact, when I wrote on the fate of my favorite Baltic Republic last Spring, in my heart l was not sure that Estonia would ever be free. But tllen something happened. And til en something else ... The Soviets have had quite a year. First half protests coupled with the hole-in-the-doughnut economics of Peristroika, the withdrawal from Afghanistan, tile opening of the Hungarian borders, .and the establishment of 'democracy' in Poland, has led opinion to believe that there just might be hope for Europe after.all. The Soviets have fallen into an era in which they cannot get away with being the stubborn, evil power which they attempted to be while Mr. Reagan was with us. Violence breeds violence, you see. Finally (or hopefully, at least), the Soviets have admitted their weaknesses and are ready to join the world. As the wall crumbles, the West stands at a crossroad, looking to the great traffic-cop for a signal. Mr. B usn to serve. No rush in these matters. First service. Mr. Bush's strategy for a new Europe was recently characterized by R. W. Apple as one in which he \is feeling his way\ (The New York Times, Sept. 26, 1989). Tile fact of the matter, though, is S.P.A.A. Generates Aid For Nicaragua By EILEEN SCUTT As of September 26, Students for Political Aware- ness and Action will be sponsoring a box for Nicaragua i11 the College Center. The pllfPOSe of the box is to collect d<>nations in the form of pens, . pencils, markers, and other school supplies that will n<>t only help the school children of Nicaragua, but aid in the upcoming elections as well. Tile program, called Pens and Pencils for Nicaraguan Elections, is a project of the Nicaragua Network and the Quest for Pea~e. Nicaragua's national and local elections will take place on February 25, 1990. These election processes have been revised as a part of the \Costa del Sol\ Peace Accord that was signed by five Central American Presidents as a part of Nicaragua's liberalizing process. However, the $1() million that the election processes will cost places a strain on Nicaragua's fragile economy. Thus the pens, pencils, and donations collected will help the cause of democracy in Central America. In addition, after the elections all supplies will go to help educate the country's impoverished youth. The Club Economics will hold a General Meeting Monday, October 2 at 3:3·0 in ss 103e Elections will be held for club officers. All are welcome! that he :has no plan-which really is o.k.-for now. The speed with which the demise of the Eastern bloc has taken on allows for this. However, the H'e. (Bush) is on top of his game, but must continue to be ''aggressively conservative'' at all costs. vacation is over and it is tim~ to play ball. This past week has seen the president receive a sixty-nine percent approval rating in a poll conducted by (the now pride-swallowing) Ap.ple's Times and CBS. Such popularity has. put the ball in Bush's court, and it is time to go on the offensive in Eastern Europe. A taste of this w:as palated. last Monday in Mr. Bush's United Nations address. · He was assertive (\We are. witnessing an ideolog.ical collapse [of the S(rviet Union]\) while constructive (\a new attitude prevails between the U.S. and U.S.S.R.\). Bush worked on his serve this. Summer. and now it is appearing to pay off. Game one is five from a set,. and two sets from a match-an ethic whicb: Mr. Bush ~nust remind himself of in the coming months. He is on top of his game, but must contiltue to be 'aggressively conservative' at all costs. The Eastern Eur&pean, open is not a Gr.and Slam, but it carries a big purse. L~oking - ahead to the bir.th o'f the European Econ()mic Community in 1992, the market which the East could provide us with could help recover the losses we·may have l~st in a divided Europe. A possibility of further dissembling the nuclear arms in Europe could be a resutt as well. Closer ties C:Olll'il: also encourage ·the cleaning- up of the environment-.. some.thing which evetyone sba:res. in a divided world. There is a phra1;e in First Corinthians which goes something like, 'there exists a great opportunity, yet there is resistance.\ Wise words for a man of Bush's capacity, The next meeting of the Women's Commission will be on Wednesday, October 4, 1989 from 12:00 - 1 :00 Brown Bag Lunch in College Center Room 409 All College Community Invited Agenda: 1. James Underwood will offer an update on the , Affirmative Action and Sexual Harassment policies. Future meeting for the Fall, Winter and Spring terms will always be on the first and third Wednesday of each month unless otherwise · announced. ' Box 2589~ Union College, Schenectady, NY 12308 ·• I i 1

i \ CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 Page .3 State Of The Union By Df\\'E COHEN housing 11eeds to be looked at '· from tbe viewpoint of what the ·: students wa:nt In other llews, there has been contiBuecl <liscussion on the recent passing of r~vised New Yo.d.:State laws concerning the .posse~ston and consumption of alcohol. There is a drive underway :t<> try and get these new laws repealed. Many feel that the ne;w Jaws will have negative co11sequences and do more ~age than good. Anyen·e . wishing to voice their opinion on any of the topics rn~n.doned in this colutnn is encouraged ~o submit their ideas to Box 449 or they .can present their ideas in .pers()n to .the Student Forum The issue ~t Ute forefront of this week's &rtiele is rhe concern ove:r S]>ecial interest hou:sing. S;pe;kial interest housing bas lJeen a. constant : topic over tbe li!st few years, Many st1Jde11t:s: feel that most ()f the bacl<in,g for special interest .hou:sin1J comes from the adminstration and faculty. In some cases,. there have been problems 'C~ol'dinating the actual number ()f students V{hO wish to partalce in special interest hQt~.si,ng and the number of r()otns allotted fo:t their use. If tl!e students are the main propolllellt of special interest housiEg, there should be very little trouble in determining a finite number. The issue of s:;pecial interest . · on Mo11da;y nights at 6:30 .p.m. in Rocm 4-09 .of the College Center. Armed Schenectady Resident Appre:hended On Campus 'By MIKE KLEIN'FELDER On Friday~ September 22 at 11:55 p.m., twe students called Security witlt ~· report of a snspicio11s ;peJson in the vicinity of Edwuds House. The pcrpetrat<>r, posing as a security official and carrying a fake badge, VIas tormenting passing students_ Security qllick]y responded to the scene. Upt>Il reqnest f<>r some identifimtion, the suspect brandished a. knife at the responding officer. Fortunately, two additioilal officers had arrived, and the suspect was disarmed and a(lprehended. A further searcl1 of his person revealed anotfler lnife concealed within his belt. The suspect ·ViJas held at the Security ancl. ~afety Building until the Scllellectady police arrived. He wa~r 'then .taken into custody and charged with menacing a11d trespassing. According t{)- Paul Mantica. director of security. ~e knowledge arld[Juick response of the students who made the call enabled the arrest to be made witho11t a:n injury or an assault. There. is a problem with security. Mr. Mantica, along with othe.r organizations, has started a program to hei.ghten securi~y awreness within the student b<>dy. On the subject of security .awareness, Mr. Mantica say-s that we must first get it 10ut t() the campus, and then ta1eprecautions. One of security's biggest \sore J>Dints\ is the propping open o-f dormitory doors. Mantica says, \The students must realize that c-onvenience is .seco11dary to safety.\ The dormil<>ty doors are the students'\ first line of defense. They are there to protect us from theft, !lssault, and rape. Students must remember to keep drorsl(]Cked and windows closed wh.ile out. If you forget your keys, there are many ways in which to get belp. Mantica says U> fi11d a.resident advisor, use the collitesy phones, and if need be, call security. Many student~ shmg this conseioasne:ss off as nonsence. \Safeguards are there to increa.se .s:ecurity, not to decrease inconvenience,\ Mantica sa.ys. \We are not crying W()LC' Repor-ted for Security Incidents 9/11-9/17.: ~ 9-11 9-11 9-11 9-1.2 9-12 9-13 9-l..3 9-13· •-u 9-l3 9-l3 9-14 9'-i4 9-14 3-14 9-14 ···14 •-15 ?-15 '·15 g.J.s 9-J.6 9·16 9·16 9-16 S-16 t :=2:3 AM' off campus 1: :.JS PM Maxcy Hcuee 4 :C3 PM Fox Lot :::!.2: 38 AM' Ph.i Gamma Beta '&.:'55 AM c~c.c;rc~e 1\:00 A!'! Unicn Ave J.l :,OD AN We!1s l.ot ll :~S AM ·Ph)•s:.cal Plant S=~~ PM College Cen~er 6:02:: PM Collegt; Center ~&~:~PM Sec~~~ty Off1ce 1 -: 1D A\l ·J.!e.xander L~ •3 dD AM Wh:.pple Brici:ge l)l :)::, 1\M Ri:::-- .. -cnd 1 :d·2 PrJ. ttaym::::n::! .2 ; 20 p~ ,Mt:J\ear. House 3 ::t.7 PH Co:::.ege center ·s ~ls PN' ba..-:.dson •9 :Z~ PM Sill !man l·:dZ AM1 N~w Ent:t'y Rc3. 4 =00 PM Secu;-ity Off ice 4 :(5 Pl-l Oa\•lc~:son area 8 =IS,. PM Wes:: Col:lege 12 .:2B .AM NC)'t': Meinoriel: ~ = 22! AM Soet h Te::r. Ln .• ~ ~2~ A.\i s~:.:..aan 4: l~ ·PM· Ch;. ?Sl. h· ls. PM Fox libuse ~-= j(J PM WebS-:er l-lous.e l·l:. C•9' AM Edve.=-C.s House 9 .. 17 ~=-~!il\ AM Hl.C:-itolt Lot 9·1? ~'-=- UL PM J.la::::Ky Hoose 9-17 ~1-: ~&. .[)M. Ri::h.-=,:)nd INC::iD£11:1' Adv:i.sed SPilf o£ .y-ou-ths With bat:s south Ave..are.a. Room door JU.ck:eti i:tl, SuspiCious pe:-.son- chased off .. Off campus compl.ai:%!t noise. Motor veblc:le t:~C::ci<lent. H:otcr voQiele ~c:c1cient c:auseQ dAmai;!e to c:-oll.egu _property. Vand~lism t 6 ailton\-ob.ile. Undesirable ,a~i sed' off c:empus. Undes;~:rabf~, adll\lsed o!f campus~ Kids on b'ic'jcJ.es. 1.ma.i.de, warned off can'lpl.%.s. DespOndent stude~t , Oe~n cal!ed. B~rr1cedes -vandl1zed. Vand:alism t--o Gro:ul\dsmaster reported. - - Possible ~u~o br~a~·±fi. Student rep.otrs theft of 'keys. Student repor-::.s itEms stolen Over the s\1:Jl\1Tler. Food serviCe repor\\ts stolen furniShings .• Flooding i~ lau~dry room. Maintenance persQ~nel notifi~d. Transpoi:'teclt studen.,t to E~l·is ElL Traffic sign sta·le.n. 'l\he.ft of de>Ill! keys w:rl.t-te.n up~ Undesirable- soli:.Ci.. ting. student Is k:.ey liot 'WO:k.illg,, accessed. Vehicle· dri vir:~g on gras$. v.andali·sm· to bol.lt.r\1. vandalism to tree. ·Arran9ing repau::·s to f .1.te systEm. Malle temPor~r:,.· rep-a~:rs to craCked WU)odcw. tire gafety- e-=;ui.prment ciischa::rged·. Student ref usel to- 1!-.racua te dur~ng· !~te a~~~. Fight .i.nvol.-vipg st udent.s .and n.on-student . Dumcs-;er kn-ockee o-vez, Undes.ir~ble remove<. G:bup Of AlUmci dr 1Mking. Professor Martha Huggins Professm Frank Milillo Professor George Shaw Union Faculty Members Receive Endowed Professorships By STEVEN CARR Three Union College faculty members were installed in endowed professorships the morning of September 16, in a convocation at the Memorial ChapeL The honored professors are Martha K. Huggins, chairman of the Department of Sociology and· Anthropology, who has b~n named the Roger Thayer Stone Professor of Sociology and Anthropology; Frank F. Milillo, chairman of the Mechanical Engineering Department, the Thomas J. Watson Sr. and Emma Day Professor of Engineering; and Geore H. Shaw. chairman of the Geology Department, the John and Jane Wold Professor of Geology. Huggins' and Shaw's eventual successors as department chairmen will also . ' • Huggins, who is presently in Brazil, leading a group of students, is a comparative sociologist who specializes in research on crime and social control in Latin America. hold the endowed professorships; Milillo's professorship will be passed on to the chairman of one of the engineering departments. • The endowed chairs were awarded to Union and the administration then decided specifically which professors should receive the honors. \The endowed .chairs are a recognition of the teaching and research quality of our professsors,\ said Union President John S. Morris. Morris also commented that the professsors received the chairs because of their contributions tc the high academic standard bere at Union. Huggins, who is presently in Brazil leading a group of students, is a comparative sociologist who specializes in research on crime and social control in Latin America. She received her doctorate in sociology from- the University of New Hampshire and joined the Union College faculty in 1979. She was appointed chairman of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology in 1986 whle serving as director of Women's Studies. Besides teaching classes, Huggins is also involved in many other academic areas including the editorial boards of two social science journals and membership in several prestigious committees on ' criminology. llle Stone professorship has been endowed by Doris Zcmurray S to1u~ and her son, Samuel Z. Stene, in memory of her husband and his father, Roger T. Stone, a 1928 graduate of Union College. Roger Stone was a founding and distinguished member of the Terrace Collncil. Each year, the coUeg e recognizes individuals do11ating $1000 or more that yeai\ by awarding them memhership in the Terrace Council; a distinguishe<l member, like Stone, has to be a member for at least ten years. Milillo, wh~ received his doctorate from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, joined the Union C()lkge faculty in 1974 and became the Mechanical Engineering Department chairman in 1987. In the surn mer of 1977, Milillo was visiting scientist in the Radi.ation Kinetics Group at Argonne National Laboratory ,Arg()nne, Illinois. He was also vis:iting associate professor of metallurgy with the Ion-Jrnplantation Metallurgy Group at the Institute fot Materials Science . Milillo received the Alfred H. Geisler Award in 1978 from the America11 Society for Metals for bis teaching and research at Union College. The Watson and Day professorship was donated by members ofthe Watson family through the efforts of Dr. Richard G. Day in memory of his uncle Th()mas J. Watson Sr. and his mother, Emma Milillo who re(eived his doctorate from Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, j~ined the Union College faculty in 1974 and be~ame the Mechanical Engineering Department cltairman in 1987. Watson Day, as well as Essie Watson Brol3ghton, Jennie Watson Miesse and Loua Watson Earl. Tllomas Watson, the founding president of International B usincss Machines Corporation, received an honorary dc.grce of civil law from Union in 1'953. His sister Emma was a tifelong resident of Schenectady with a constant interest in U11ion College. Milillo commented that the endowment W()Ul<l be used to help fund \equi}>'ment related to my materials research,\ specifically in the scanning electron microscope lab. Shaw, wbQI was born in Schenectady an<! graduated from Scotia High School, came to ' Union in 1988 as the result of a national search by the school to find a chairman for its Geology Department. He received his doctoral and master's degrees in geology at the University of Washington. He was a National Science Foundation Postdoctoral Fellow at the University of Edinburgh, Scotland, in 1972. Shaw received a travel grant from the American Geophysical Union Lo an internatinal conference iun Peru. He also conducted research at Lhe NATO Advanced Study Institute on Petrophysics. Before he came to Union, Shaw was the associate head of the School of Earlh Sciences at the University of Minnesota from 1984 to 1988. Shaw is a Shaw's endowment represents a gift from the Wold family to Union College. The gift supports the re- establishment of the Geology Department. member of several scientific organizations including the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Geophysical Union, and Sigma Xi, a science honorary sodety. Shaw's endowment, the John and Jane Wold Professorship, represents a gift from the Wold family to Union College. The gift will support the re- establishment of the Geology Department. JohnS. Wold is a 1938 graduate of Union, majoring in geology, and is trustee of the College. His father, Peter Wold, was a physics professor at Union from 1920 to 1945 and served as chairman of the Physics Department. John Wold is the founder and president of Wold Minerals Company, which is headquartered in Casper, Wyoming, and is now operated by two of Wold's children. Wold was elected to the Wyoming State Legislaturce in 1956 and served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1969 to 1971. The three endowments make positive statements about the quality of teaching at Union College. This quality would not be able to be upheld without these kinds of contributions from the outside community. As Union President John S. Morris commented, \We are grateful to the Stone, Watson and Wold families for their generous support for higher education and for Union College.\

Page 4 CONCORDlENSIS, September 28, 1989 FEATURES and Fitness Trends'' Health \Body By JEN FRIEDMAN Well, summer is now officially gone ... those days of sun, fun and recreation are a distant memory. We may not find our bodies looking as tan and lean as they used to. Many find that it's gotten a lot easier to opt for that ex:tra hour of shut-eye rather than hau.ling our lazy behinds off the couch to the gym. We just can't miss \Days Of Our Lives', or have too much work to do and have no time to fit in that workout. Well, don't let the change in the weather change your exercise habits. Bored. with the gym scene? Beginning to have nightmares about the stationary bike with the broken pedal? Then be a little creative, you'd be Surt>Iised. Swimming is the best possible body toning form of exercise and leaves you felling refresh.ed and invigorated. lf yo11're not a water person and would rather stay on land, ;then why not try the aerobics that Union .offers on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. You'd be surprised at how great you'll feel after an hour and a half of exercising to music. Stair climbing is the latest craze in the fitness arena. Climbing provides cardia-conditioning, firm· buttocks, thighs and calves. Also, why not take advantage of the bike path and set out for an eleven mile excursion through the back roads of Schenectady. Lastly, why not resort to the good ol' standby, something you do every day, walk. You'd be ·amazed at how good wallcing really is. For many it relieves the strain and pounding associated with running. It's betterf<Jr your knees and ankles and,. if done at a fast pace, can tone your thighs, buttocks, and calvesto perfection. So, just because it's getting colder and consequently easier to hide body flaws with bulky, oversized sweaters, don't give in to tile winter blahs. Choose sometb.ing, anything, even if it's just for an hour. Remember fitness is now all over the place not just in the gym. So find y<Jur favorite form of exercise and keep it up, you'll love the results! - Union 201: An Upper Level Course For Union Students Ry LISA R. CHERANDE This class is a mandatory class for all juniors and seniors before they graduate. The only pre-requisite is junior and senior standing. If you have not pre-registered for this one, no need to worry ... you have already been matriculated by the Registrar in Union's Academic Heaven. Unfortunately, the rules are different now. Say goodbye to Introduction to Union! If you do not pass this course, well, chances are you are going to have a rough time making it to Real Life 101. In other this course, you will not receive the golden diploma, which is your entrance to Academic Heaven. Though a few lucky souls manage to sneak past the almighty Registrar, ultimately, they pay for their failures! This course will not be easy, so upperclassmen, ,beware. Drop oul now before it is too late, and you are forced to take only two classes. (Though two classes sounds nice, think about how much fun it will be spending your summer vacationing in fiery Academia.) In case you have not yet observed, the focus of this course will be on Academics. Because this is an institution of higher learning, it seems only appropriate that the course \weed\ out those who are not intent on fulfilling .the college's mtsston. (See \Introd11ction to Union\ if you remain uncertain as to wb.at the defining characteristics of an institution of higher learning is.) Additionally, becausce this is an upper level class, a minimum of five hours a day on homework is not an unrealistic expectation. Those of you wh<l choose to complete a tltesis will be compensated with a slightly less class load, but tile thesis will provide sufficient work consumption. Here is an overview of what you will l>e studying this term. To make it easier on your already strained eyes, it has been IJro:ken down into lessons. Lesson #1. You are a senior or a junior. You must spend more time studying. You can no }()nger bring home a 1.5 cummulative average and expect Mom and Pop to pay · $18,000. (This will likely be , the most difficult lesson for many.) Lesson #2. You must take upper level coutses in your major. Yes, that means that all those indecisive and unmotivated juniors and unquestionably unmotivated seniors must declare a major soon. No longer can you get away with taking \Introduction to Every Major in the School\. It also means that you must take courses with a more substantial amount of work. A 20-page term paper will be the standard, rather than the exception. Lesson #3. You must spend more time in the library. Some of you might even come to think of it as your second home. Do not try to sleep over, llowever. You will never finish any work that way! By the way, for those of you for which ,this is your first time in the library, there is a 24-hour study, b11t be careful not to overdo it your first time or you will land yourself in the Land Of The Academically Overworked. Take heed, the library can be fun if you find yourself a comfortable seat and some back issues of Concordienses. Lesson #4. You must attempt to write a Senior Thesis if you are in \one ,of those majors\. Scientists and Engineers are exempt, but will be kept busy enough in the next two years, juggling labs with distribution requirements. And Liberal Arts majors that do not require a thesis are lucky, in a sense, but .ought to anticipate a large proliferation of paper writing as the course level increases and the number of students in the class become~ smaller. Lesson #5. This is a repeat of the fitst lesson because it needs to be reinforced. Juniors and seniors: you can no longer expect things to be spoon-fed. JOIN THE S aifing C{u6 Call Mark 386-4305 \To be academic or not to be academic\ that is the qaestion you must answer. It remains up to you to take the initiative and do what needs to be done; or else to be done with! Thus done, I guarantee you the golden diploma to Academic Heaven and good grades .in Real Life 101. t.·~ ., .• - , • . •;. .. ··- ~·~~~ . ~ --~~ . ~ '·--- . INDIAN BLANKET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90 4 And Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentic Indian Design Each one Personally Blessed By Wise Owl. Medicrne Man And Chi.ef Drowning Creek Reservation $150. Value For Only $39. Postpaid Satisfaction Guaranteed. The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed BY tndlan MediCine Man Your Order Provides Help urgently Needed By lribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Qwl, Drowning creek Reservation, R/11'2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 If you haven't discovered us yet, then now is the time .... FALL SALE - 25% OfF ALL CLOTHING \' rrfie Slioppe neat clothing, jewelry and accessorios $ALE Sept. 25-30 133 Canal Square, Downtown Schenectady

C()_NCORDIENSIS, Septem/Jer 28, 1989 Page 5 FEATURE.S Union Fencing . . . A Touch Above The Rest By GARY LAMBERT Last Sunday, Union's Fencing Club hosted the college's very first interc@J.Iegiate tournament at the Memorial Fieldhouse. Over 60 fencers from five area schools were in attendance. Competition began shortly after ten o'clock with the finals ending just before six. Union had nine fencers competing in the foil and saber weapon classes. Despite the fact that Union's club is run by students and has no professional ins~ction per se, our fencers managed to take home two trophies from this tournament. In saber, a team composed of Ken Oroz, Jean-(laude Abed and Gary Lambert came away with second place narrowly losing to the RPI A team, 27- 25. An even bigger upset came in the Men's foil competition when Union took first place in that class, beating out the RPI A team, 5-3, in the fiNals. Union's team, composed of Jean-Claude Abed, Sandor Lokos, and Gyorgy Vamosi, had to beat out eleven other teams to reach this point. The results of this tournament hope fu II y foreshadow a successful season for Union's fencers. If you would like to' be a part of this exciting sport, contact Gary at 374-3239. West Dining: The Next Best Thing to a Fraternity Party By KAREN BURNS, BETH FISCHB'EIN and JULIA PATTISON As a freshman, one may complain about being required to eat in a designated dining facility. However, after \Week 2\ the many previously overlooked advantages can be seen. The first obstacle that must be overcome before a meal is the location of the actual meal card. It is usually misplaced in the dorm room somewhere but it almost always turns up just in time. After finding the meal card the initiitl preparations may be made. as the five o'clock hour approaches. Suddenly, the outfit you are wearing must be changed or fixed up and hair must be brushed and make-up applied. By now, everyone who is accompanying you to dinner is ready in the hall, awaiting the voyage to West. Upon entering West, a quick scan of the room provides the answer to the impending SPRING TERM ABROAD IN VIENNA .. The applicati()n deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Vienna this coming spring ;!s nearing. Tll~re are still placEe available, and students are invited to enroll in the program. One must be at least a .sophomore and satisfy the minimum prerequisite for acceptance wtlich is completion of German II (Basic German II). The Austro·American institute in Vienna is Qrganizing several levels of instruction in German whidl·Will suit the student's different language abilities and it will provide for housing in prilrate families. The ''Arts, Architecture and Cutture\ course taught by Union faculty members ir:l residence (Prof. Kellenter during the first half of the term and Prot Warde during 1he second; half) will draw on all of Vienna's resources and acquaint the students wittJ.Its rich tradnions. Vie~na, a magnificent city with its famous Gothic St. Stephen's Cathedral, its Re~~rssanoe and Baro9ue palaces a~d. moriu!f!ental buildings, occupies a leading po~1t1on ame>ng the. world~ centers of ~rt!st!C and n:'lf~llectuallife. It has produced masters of literature ar~d sc1ence; its art cc.llecttons are renowned the whole world over· and as a musical cent~r, it probably has no equal. Today, as welk Vienna is a center of diplomacy between East and West (and for 1ilat reason. too, a caphal of espionage!). Several trips. (included in the cost of the term) will enrich the proQrahl, among them a boat trip on .tf:le Danube to the world famous monaste.ry at Melk and an eight-da/ excursi?n.to tile German Demo_cratic Rc;p~blic {East Germany) via Prague. St~ps in the GDR W!ll .nc1ude Dresden, We1mar, Le1pztg, and East Berlin. A day in West Berlin will provide interesting contrasts. · ~ The c:ost oftfle program appr'olliimatesthe cost ot.a term spent on the Union campus. All scholarships ctJrrently received V~rtl apply. The only additional expense is the air fare to Vienna and bac::l< .. An added attraction is that students participating .in the spring term can choose to spend some extra tiiTle in Europe during the summer without spending adcfitonal airfare. , · All interestEd students should contact the ierms Abroad Office, .Prof. Warde or Prof. Kellenter, HU 211. The applications must be received by October 20. . question: \Who will I see at dinner tonight?\ A feeling of either satisfaction or hopefulness sets in as you slowly proceed to the tray stand, anxious to grab the highly coveted BLUE tray. A two-hour \all you can eat\ session allows you to pian a step by step food intake plan. The first selection of either salad or dessert, or hot food is made and then a trip back to your strategically located table where your seat is already reserved by a meal card and coat draped over the chair. Immediately, chatter sets in over the table as each diner has a story about who they have . seen or, on disappointing nights, not seen. Now, being as discreet as possible there are numerous glances over at the table you would like to be seated at. A second trip up to the food is next, but only after a survey of the room to make sure nobody notices that you are going up for food again. Since the meal is eaten in stages everything already cons.umcd is forg<Htcn as additional food is grabbed. In the meantime, attention is continuously f<Jcused on the door at any entering interests. A well thought out plan of exit is made as the clock approaches 7:00 p.m. With stolen snacks in hand for later you steal a final glance over at the table of interest and the journey home hegins (only after avoiding an embarrassing trip on the long, red carpet). As the door doses behi,nd you and your close dining buddies, you may breathe a sigh of accomplishment with the assurance that tile same thing will happen again the next evening . In reflection of.the years that have passed one can now recognize the long-term advantages of a freshman dining hall as it is a place Where many friendships are · started and strengthened and funny moments are cherished and remembered throughout your college years. UNION'S SOCIAL, ALTERNATIVE Movie feature: I'm Gonna Get You SUCKER! This Friday, Sept. 27th 8:00p.m. . Sponsored by: Bronner House (Cultural Unity Center) located on the North Side of North College Do file R.ight Thing BE THERE!

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 28,- 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES lnternation,al Student ,of the Week By KEVIN HONIKEL Union College has once again lleen fortunate enough to host a great group of students from York, England, including this week's Ihternationa'l Student, Karen Pitts. As one of the six students here from the College of Ripon and York St. John's, she is able to get credit toward her degree and to see a bit of America at the same time. Unlike many of Karen's fellow Y ode ~;tudents on the exchange prognm, her major is not American studies, but history. Now, in her second year of college at York,. Karen is enrolled in two political science courses and one history course at Union. Needless to say, sl1e is quite busy, study- wise. Karen's courses have not dampened her pmsuit of extra- curricttlar activities, however. She has become a member of the women's rugby team, saying tllat the team has \made me feel very welcome.\ She also believes that both the men's and women's rugby teams are \a great bunch of people with a lot of character-- ! wish them all good luck this year.\ Aside from rugby, Karen finds time ·to play intramural soccer, and she maintains a healthy social life. college. Karen is also no stranger to ttavel.ing, and she enjoys it a great deal. She has been aU over Europe, and at 16, represented Great Britain in an international organization for young people. As a member of the organization, she travelled to several different countries, including Canada. Prior to arriving at Union, Karen worked at Wimbledon for two weeks. She also spent Karen Pitts three and one-half weeks working as a children's camp counselor in Pennsylvania. Although sbe is having a great time at Union, Kaven concedes that a number of things are quite different for her. First, she is surprised that upperclassmen live in dormitories on campus. In England, she states, only fttst- year students live in · dormitories, while groups of four or five upperclassmen live together in \student houses\ off campus. Our language was Karen's second surprise, which: s'he found to be quite different over here. She confesses that she \has had a lot of fun trying to communicate with people,\ and that \some people cannot understand a word that I say.\ Aside from the different accent, some of her words take people by surprise. When she says \loo she means \bathroom.\ \French fries\ for her are \chips while chips are \crisps.\ \Sweats\ in England, are track-suit bottoms, and .sneakers are \trainers.\ When Karen leaves Upion in , November, she win travel around America for four or five weeks with her friend and fellow York exchange student, Rebecca Morely. Karen looks forward to seeing the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas, Mexico, Canada, and New York City-- where she and Rebecca will catch a plane home for England before Christmas. Despite her love for traveling, she wishes she could stay for a full year at Union: since, as she says, \Everyone here is friendly and dead canny (awesome).\ She will definitely be missed when she leaves in November to \take the world by stonn.\ putUQ}l!,W S!OOU&Ii[ \S .--lS~JQAg 1UOOJtq \t ilUp[Qd 'E lfiOOUIAJd \l- When Karen is at home in Leeds, England, she enjoys waterskiing, windsurfing. and canoeiag whenever possible. She is also on the mixed (co- ed) field hockey team at her DQ IT! Write for International Features under ·m Nn:ISJ ·6 un:n.IJsnv ·s ptm[J~Zl!M.S 'L U!PUJ ·g SlJ:tfA\SNV umJSI\l THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD President Bush told the U.N. that the United States will destroy 80 percent of its chemical weapons if the Soviet Union agrees to cut its stockpile to the American level. Two rival Soviet republics, Armenia and Azerbaijan, were warned by President Gorbachev that they have two days to negotiate an end to an extraordinary rail blockade that has paralyzed Annenia. Yasir Arafat should be denied a visa if he seeks permission to come to the United States to address the United Nations, say 65 senators in a letter to the Bush Administration. · The war by Colombia's drug cartels is leaving behind a trail of victims less visible than the bomb blasts and the assassinations: children who are afraid to play in parks, go shopping or eat in restaurants. A SCl'Viet newspaper apologized for an article that depicted Boris Yeltsin, a popular Kremlin critic, as a drunken knave dllring his recent tour of the U.S. The paper, Pravda, received a stonn of criticism from readers. Vice President Quayle told Japan that its alliance with the United States should not be overshadowed by trade disputes. His upbeat words were in sharp contrast to recent statements by the Bush Administration. Saudi Arabia beheaded 16 Kuwaitis by sword in the Islamic holy city of Mecca in connection with bombings and other terrorism during the annual Muslim pilgrimage in July. Courtesy of the New York Times. (f) ~ (f) 2 ~ f ~ 0 b J: a.. 2 c .flour I t baking soda ~l t salt 2 t cinnamon GERMAN APPLE CAKE ·~ c walnuts ·~ c raisins 3 eggs 5 c tart baking apples· I !h c sugar I t vanilla ~coil Heat oven to 350\. Sift together and set aside the flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Pare apples and slice thin. Chop walnuts and use a small portion of the flour mixture to coat the nuts. ln mixer bowl 'beat eggs, sugar, vanilla, and oil. Add flour mixture and beat well. Fold in nuts, raisins ~nd apples. Spoon into a well-greased and floured 9 x 13 x 2 pan. Bake for one hour. Remove from oven and let set for a boutS minutes. Remove from pan and cool on rack. Sprinkle top with confectioners' sugar. (juten J!lppetit! Language Tables College Center Monday 12:45-1:45 . French, Russian, Hebrew Tuesday 11:45-12:45 I'ta lian . Wednesday 12:45- 1:45 German, Japanese & Spanish KNEELING: Mark Zimmerman; :tst ROW: LaraJean Ancona, OaJolyn Dunn, Amy'\\Hali, Professor Sargent, Paummi Header, Helen Lee, Tuan Lee. 2ndROW: Ken Preisser, Rena Symansky, Shirley Cagle, Kim Wieland and (hidden) Mrs. Sargent. MI~SING: Pam Kustas.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student of the Week By KEVIN IIONIKEL Union College has once again been fortunate enough to host a great group of students from York, England, inclu<ling this week's International Student, Karen Pitts. As one of the six students here from the College of Ripon and York St. John's, she is able to get credit toward her degree and to see a bit of America at the s arne time. Unlike many of Karen's fellow York students on the exchange program, her major is not American studies, but history. Now, in her second year of college at York, Karen is enrolled in two political science courses and one history course at Union. Needless to say, she is quite busy, study- wise. Karen's courses have not dampened her pursuit of extra- curricular activities, however. She has become a member of the women's rugby team, saying that the team has \made me feel very welcome.\ She also believes that both the men's and women's rugby teams are \a great bunch of people with a lot of character-- ! wish them all good luck this year.\ Aside from rugby, Karen finds time to play intramural soccer, and she maintains a healthy social life. college. Karen is also no stranger to traveling, and she enjoys i~t a great deal. She has been all over Europe, and at 16, represented Great Britain in an international organization for young people. As a member of the organization, she travelled to several different countries, including Canada. Prior to arriving at Union, Karen worked at Wimbledon for two weeks. She also Karen Pitts three and one-half weeks working as a children's camp counselor in Pennsylvania. Although she is having a great time at Union, Karen concedes that a number of things are quite different for her. First, she is surprised that upperclassmen live in dormitories on campus. In England, she states, only first- year students live in dormitories, while groups of four or five upperclassmen live together in \student houses\ off campus. Our language was Karen's second surprise, which she found to be quite different over here. She confesses that she \has had a lot of fun trying to communicate with people,\ and that \some people cannot understand a word that I say.\ Aside from the different accent, some of her words take people by surprise. When she says \loo she means \bathroom.\ \French fries\ for her are \chips while chips are \crisps.\ \Sweats\ in England, are track-suit bottoms, and sneakers are \trainers.\ When Karen leaves Union in November, she will travel around America for four or five weeks with her friend and fellow York exchange student, Rebecca Morely. Karen looks forward to seeing the Grand Canyon, Las Vegas, Mexico, Canada, and New York City-- where she and Rebecca will catch a plane home for England before Christmas. Despite her love for traveling, she wishes she could stay for a full year at Union: since, as she says, \Everyone here is friendly and dead canny (awesome).\ She will definitely be missed when she leaves in November to \take tbe world by storm.\ pmmmrw s~o:nre.Id ·s lSgJgAH nmow ·p 2uP£gd '£ q1noUL\yd ·z When Karen is at home in Leeds, England, she enjoys waterskiing, windsurfing, and canoeing whenever possible. She is also on the mixed (co- ed) field hockey team at her DQ IT! Write for International Features u~d~f ·or pC.ISJ '6 un~.nsnv '8 puupgZJ!M.S . L ~!PUI '9 SH3MSNV WUJSJ 'I THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD President Bush told the U.N. that the United States will destroy 80 percent of its chemical weapons if the Soviet Union agrees to cut its stockpile to the American level. Two rival Soviet republics, Armenia and Azerbaijan, were warned by President Gorbachev that they have two days to negotiate an end to an extraordinary rail blockade that has paralyzed Anncnia. Yasir Arafat should be denied a visa if he seeks pcnnission to come to the United States to address the United Nations, say 65 senators in a letter to the Bush Administration. The war by Colombia's drug cartels is leaving behind a trail of victims k~-;s visible than the bomb blasts and the a<;..;assination..;: children who arc afraid to play in parks, go c.;hopping or eat in restaurants. A Soviet newspaper apologized for an article that depicted Boris Ycltsin, a popular Kremlin critic, as a drunken knave during his recent tour of the U.S. The paper, Pravda, received a stonn of criticism from readers. Vice President Quayle told Japan that its alliance with the United States should not be overshadowed by trade disputes. His upbeat words were in sharp contrast to recent statement<; by the Bush Administration. Saudi Arabia beheaded 16 Kuwaitis by sword in the Islamic holy city of Mecca in connection with bombings and other terrorism during the annual Muslim pilgrimage in July. Courtesy of the New York Times. en ~ en ~ :2: ~ ro 12 0 :r: 0... GERMAN APPLE CAKE 2 c flour I t baking soda \1 t salt 2 t cmnamon 5 c tart haking apples 1-l c wa louts 1-l c raisins 3 eggs I Y! c sLJgar I t vanilla 1-l c oil Heat oven to 350\. Sift together and set aside the flour, baking soda, salt, and cinnamon. Pare apples and slice thin. Chop walnuts and use a small portion of the flour mixture to coat the nuts. In mixer bowl beat eggs, sugar, vanilla, and oil. Add flour mixture and beat well. Fold in nuts, raisins and apples. Spoon into a well-greased and floured 9 x 13 x 2 pan. Ba~t! fnronc hmu. Remove from o\'en and.let set for about 5 minutes. Remove from pan ar1Li cool on rack. Sprinkle top with confectiont:rs' sugar. yuten Jlppetitf Language Tables College Center Monday 12:45-1:45 French, Russian, Hebrew Tuesday 11:45-12:45 Italian VVednesday 12:45- 1:45 German, Japanese & Spanish KNEELING: Mark Zimmerman; 1st ROW: LaraJean Ancona, Carolyn Dunn, Amy Hall, Professor Sargent, Paummi Heeder, Helen Lee, Tuan Lee. 2nd ROW: Ken Preisser, Rena Symansky, Shirley Cagle, Kim Wieland and (hidden) Mrs. Sargent. MISSING: Pam Kustas.

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 INTERNATIONAL ·FEATURES ·East Germany: Trouble Ahead? By AIME SIMON The 40th anniversary c~lebration of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) will take place October 7. Mikhail Gorbach~v will -be attending the festivities. The occasion, however, is not being anticipated without trepidation. Gorbachev, a young energetic new face, represents political reform and liberalization within the community regime, as the tolerance of change in both Hungary and Poland demonstrates. By ,contrast, East German :Politburo General Secretary Erich Honecker is 77 and seriously ill. Furthennore he is seen as the symbol of the stagnant economy and known as the notorious consttuctor of the Berlin Wall in 1961. Thus there is a legitimate fear that Gorbachev's visit could trigger a great surge of demonstrations and a possible uprising. The climate is tense: thousands .of East Germans are camped in tent cities across Hungary,. now that the border is open, preparing to flee to the West. The reasons for the mass exodus are multifold encomp.assing emotional, economic, and social ~pects. The concept .of East · Germany holds no s.entimental appeal for its citizens. It is an artificially conceived state, a false partitioning of the Oerman nation, a harsh consequence of World ·war II. In the late 1970's an attempt was made by Honiker to give East Germany a \soul linking it to its Prussian past. Quickly restoration was begun on palaces and churches. A statue of Frederick the Great was installed on the main sbopping street. It did not work.J,tussian troops are still neavily stationed in this police state which is cut off from the West by barbed wire and electric fences. The Stagi secret police are more aggressive tban the KGB. Economically, East Germany is far behind its western counterpart. The landscape is dreary, <lotted with. concrete apartment buildings. The absence of consumer products is sorely noticed. Thus not surprisingly, it is the young who form the kernel of the migration. Most are skilled workers and professionals between the ages of 20 and 40. The drain of employees has already had a serious impact. Medical facilities in the countryside are becoming scarce as doctors flee. A dental clinic in Leipzig had to close last week due to lack of staff. All over East Berlin shops are advertising for workers. As refugees explain, they are leaving for their \children's sake.\ The elements of a crisis are at hand. The future of the East German leadership is uncertain. But one thing is clear. The government must take immediate measures to open up both political and economic frontiers. Population Gross dol!lestic prod®t Average household income (after tax). Exports Imports Inflation Growth rate . infant Mortality (.per 1000 births) life expectancy Population growth {pllr 1000) Divorce (per 1000) Abortions (per 1000) Education spending ( % of GNP) Cars (per 100 households.) Television sets {per 100 households·) Telephones (per 100 households) Washing machiQes (per 100 inhabitantS) Indoor toilets Central heating Food consumption per annum (per person) Meat & meat products Potatoes beer Religion Catholic/Protestant 61m I I £529bn : £16.000. £19Ibn , £148bn ; 2.5% 4% 8.9 75 -1.3 2.1 15 4% 78 121 89 64 95% 70% Page 7 17m I £12&bn L £8,000 '-- £20bn ' ' I-'- £20bn i 2.5% E oo:a 9.2 ·~ 72.5 0 3.1 21 5.3% 42 111 22 23 60% 1 36% \' c E c. .:; 91kgs ~ 145kgs 0.. ~ .Q 1471itres ., ! 7/42o/o E ~ '-' _ GDR Official Speaks at Union By CURT BUTLER An audience of Union students and faculty filled a classroom last Thursday to hear the words of guest speaker Peter Janz, Head of the Press and Cultural Office of the German Democratic R~public's Embassy in Washington. The title of the address was \40 Years of GDR,: Accomplish- ments and Outlook,\ commemorating East Ger- many's fortieth year of existence, founded October 7th; 1949. Mr. Janz explained the history surrounding the establishment of the two German states, telling of a war- torn Europe, and a Germany divided into zones among the allies. The easternmost zone, present day East Germanyi was under Soviet rule. It split from the western zones, following disputes with the other allied powers concerning fundamental political views, and the future of Germany. Today, Mr. Janz sees a GDR that has come a long way. It is ranked tenth in the world in industry, enjoys the highest standard of living in Eastern Europe and a virtually non- existent unemployment rate. He believes his country has made progress in equal rights, and in providing a free education for any interested citizen. We, in the West, see a rather different East Germany. We see a nation struggling to hold fast to a descadent system, while its neighbors in Eastern Europe move toward reform. We see a Berlin divided by a winding concrete wall, erected by the GDR in 1961 as \protection against the fascist forces of the West.\ The rest of the world has come to recognize it as East Germany's way to keep its citizens from escaping to the \free West;\ several attempts to cross the Wall are foiled every year by border patrol gunfrre. G·ERMAN MOVIE: Monday, Oct. 2; 7:30 - CC 406 System ohne Schatten/System Without Shadow {1983) During a visit to an exhibition, Victor Faber, a computer expert, gets acquainted with a gentleman named Melo and a young French actress, Juliet. While playing a game of chess they soon find special interest in one another. Melo induces Faber to program a bank computer to transfer enormous sums of money to a Swiss bank account. But before that happens, melo double-crosses Faber. Directed by: Rudolf Thome. Starring Bruno Gauz, Hanns Zischler, Dominique Laffin, Sylvie Kekule, Konstantin Papanastasiou. Last week, nearly twenty thousand East Germans wishing to escape to West Germany by way of the newly- opened border between Hungary (another East-bloc country) and Austria, were granted passC~ge by the Hungarian government. This decision seems to have been in direct defiance of its fellow Warsaw Pact nations. When asked about the recent events, Mr. Janz declined comment, expressing only his confidence that the two countries will find a solution \in accordance with their agreement on friendship and cooperation.\ Following his prepared speech, Mr. Janz answered audience questions about the German Democratic Republic. In his hand was a stack of index cards, which seemed to contain the \official party line\ on most any topic, complete with the latest official statistics. This allowed the numbers to speak for them- selves, and avoided trouble with attempts at explanation. I doubt they appeared on Mr. Janz's cards, but the numbers of East Germans involved in last week's mass exodus to the West certainly speak for themselves. IJ=: [11~-

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES East Germany: Trou:ble Ahead? By AIME SIMON The 40th anniversary celebration of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) will take place October 7. Mikhail Gorbachev will be attending the festivities. The occasion, however, is not being anticipated without trepidation. Gorbachev, a young energetic new face, represents political reform and liberalization within the community regime, as the tolerance of change in both Hungary and Poland demonstrates. By contrast, East German Politburo General Secretary Erich Honecker is 77 and seriously ill. Furthermore he is seen as the symbol of the stagnant economy and known as the notorious constructor of the Berlin Wall in 1961. Thus there is a legitimate fear that Gorbachev's visit could trigger a great surge of demonstrations and a possible uprising. The climate is tense: thousands of East Germans are camped in tent cities across Hungary, now that the border is open, preparing to flee to the West. The reasons for the mass exodus are multifold encompassing emotional, economic, and social aspects. The concept of East Germany holds no sentimental appeal for its citizens. It is an artificially conceived state, a false partitioning of the German nation, a harsh consequence of World War II. In the late 1970's an attempt was made by Honiker to give East Germany a \soul linking it to its Prussian past. Quickly restoration was begun on palaces and churches. A statue of Frederick the Great was installed on the main shopping street. It did not work. E.ussian troops are still heavily stationed in this police state which is cut off from the West by barbed wire and electric fences. The Stagi secret police are more aggressive than the KGB. EconomicaJ!ly, East Germany is far behind its western counterpart. The landscape is dreary, dotted with concrete apartment buildings. The absence of consumer products is sorely noticed. Thus not surprisingly, it is the young who form the kernel of the migration. Most are skilled workers and professionals between the ages of 20 and 40. The drain of employees has already had a serious impact. Medical facilities in the countryside are becoming scarce as doctors flee. A dental clinic in Leipzig had to close last week due to lack of staff. All over East Berlin shops are advertising for workers. As refugees explain, they are leaving for their \children's sake.\ The elements of a crisis are at hand. The future of the East German leadership is uncertain. But one thing is clear. The government must take immediate measures to open up both political and economic frontiers. Population Gross domestic produtt Average household income (after tax} Exports Imports Inflation Growth rate Infant Mortality tper lBOO births) We expectancy Population growth (per 1000} Divorce (per 1000) Abortions (per 1000) Education spending ( % of GNP} Cars (per 100 households) Television sets (per 100 households) Telephones {per 10 0 households) Washing machines (per 100 inhabitants) Indoor toilets Central heating Food consumption per annum (per person) Meat & meat products Potatoes beer Religion Catholic/Protestant ·- 61m : 1 £529bn · j £16.000 w £19lbn ~ £::;t F, , -1.3 R 2.1 15 4% 78 121 89 64 95% 70% Page 7 1 Im I £12&bn '-- £8.0 00 £20bn £:Obn 2.5 0\0 >--- O<~'o I_ 9.2 1-- 72.5 0 3.1 27 s.3 ao u 111 22 23 r- 60~ f- ~ 36% 9lkgs 145kgs 1471itres 1/42 '!'o .:.~ GDR Official Speaks at Union ·Matt Tratnl)r .. Clas$ · ··?z: East OelT!);atJ:S' ·lea~ :s~~t · ·. ~~i.~a~i'l!''~~~~,:~~:, ,,, __ ,, · · · '\'~~oriyjir§l!~~ immigrants collect in me artd. t-owfi~ but r see no reason for people to live in a society that they db not want to live in. Gyorgy Vamosi - Hg.ngar~an ExeJumge Student: From the point of view of East Germany: common East German people's opinion is more important than thaf of their government. From Hungary's point, of view: the Hungarian stare's BEHAVIOR allows for good connections with the future, democratically elected government of the GDR. East Gennany's present government does not consider the intentions and needs of its \electors.~~ Sigred Kellenter: I feel compassion for all East Germans who are pushed by their government with its many inhuman policies either into total resignation or into fhe present exodus from their homeland. It must be heart wrenching to have to decide that leaving home, family, friends, a working place~ etc. is better than continuing to tolerate the curtailment of one's basic freedom. It must be tragic to have to give up on !!the socialist dream\ and face the reality of the situation. On the other band, the cour{lgeous actions of those fl~ing might make a ~t. difterebce and lead .to long awaited changes within East Oetq~J:!fiY~ l am sur~ th~ soul searching by even the most i)gid hatnl~n~r$ h,a$ ~Llegnn •. . -' : ·:<-+·.);-~::- - - . By CURT BUTLER An audience of Union students and faculty filled a classroom last Thursday to hear the words of guest speaker Peter Janz, Head of the Press and Cultural Office of the German Democratic Republic's Embassy in Washington. The title of the address was \40 Years of GDR: Accomplish- ments and Outlook,\ commemorating East Ger- many's fortieth year of existence, founded October 7th, 1949. Mr. Janz explained the history surrounding the establishment of the two Gennan states, telling of a war- tom Europe, and a Germany divided into zones among the allies. The easternmost zone, present day East Germany, was under Soviet rule. It split from the western zones, following disputes with the other allied powers concerning fundamental political views, and the future of Germany. Today, Mr. Janz sees a GDR that has come a long way. It is ranked tenth in the world in industry, enjoys the highest standard of living in Eastern Europe and a virtually non- existent unemployment rate. He believes his country has made progress in equal rights, and in providing a free education for any interested citizen. We, in the West. see a rather different East Germany. We see a nation struggling to hold fast to a descadent system, while its neighbors in Eastern Europe move toward reform. We ~ee a Berlin divided by a winding concrete wall, erected by the GDR in 1961 as \protection against the fascist forces of the West.\ The rest of the world has come to recognize it a!'> Fast Germany's way to keep its citizens from escaping to the \free West;\ several attempts to cross the Wall are foiled every year by border patrol gunfire. GERMAN MOVIE: Monday, Oct. 2; 7:30- CC 406 System ohne Schatten/System Without Shadow (1983) During a visit to an exhibition. Victor Faber, a computer expert, gets acquainted with a gentleman named Melo and a ~oung French actress, Juliet. While playing a game of chess they soon find special interest in one another. Melo induces Faber to program a bank computer to transfer enormous sums of money to a Swiss bank account. But before that happens, melo double-crosses Faber. Directed by: Rudolf Thome. Starri~g Bruno Gauz. Hanns Zischler, Dominique Laffin, Sylvre Kekule, Konstantm P apan astasiou . Last week, nearly twenty thousand East Germans wishing to escape to West Germany by way of the newly- opened border between Hungary (another East-bloc country) and Austria. were granted passage by the Hungarian government. This decision seems to have been in direct defiance of its fellow Warsaw Pact nations. When asked about the recent events, Mr. Janz declined comment, expressing only his confidence that the two countries will find a solution \in accordance with their agreement on friendship and cooperation.\ Following his prepared speech, Mr. Janz answered audience questions about the German Democratic Republic. In his hand was a ~tack of index card~. whit·h seemed to contain the \official party line\ on most any topic. complete with the latest offiual statistics. This allowed the numbers to speak for them- selves, and avoided trouble with attempb at explanation. I doubt they appeared on Mr. Janz's cards, but the numbers of East German~ Involved 111 last week's ma~s exodus to the West certainlj speak for themselves. JJ~­ [11~\ISI

CONCORDIENSIS, Se:ptember )8, .1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Legacy of aS The Real Disaster By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor The Exxon Corporation recently halted its clean-up efforts in Valdez, Alaska. Since the ll million gallon Vald.ez crude oil spill on March 24, Exxon has been engaged in a public relations offensive with the state of Alaska and environmentalists worldwide. The company confidently states that 60,000 barre1s of oil has been recovered and that all 1,087 miles O·f formerly pristine Alaskan coastline has been made environmentally stable. The state of Alaska, meanwhile, asserts that only 30,000 barrels were recovered and that a mere 118 miles of beach were restored. public relations effort that has little to do with environmental reality. For examp'le, in response to numerous calls and letters from animal lovers, Exxon spent $30 million in a largely vain attempt to save wiidlife. Eight million dollars alone was spent to rescue about 200 otters - that works out to $40,000 per animal. Crews employed enough oil-catc::hing booms to encircle Manhattan three times. Amidst the public relations rhetoric, marine scientists are telling a different story. Most claim that the spill's most damaging effects were done in the first few weeks. This damage is blamed on inadequate initial clean-up response. Scientists say that the $1 billion clean-up effort since then has been little more than a Initially, most environmental damage was done to sea birds and otters. About 33,000 birds and 1 ,000 of the mammals either were found dead or later died in rehabilitation centers.. More damage could have resulted from Exxon's prolonged clean- up efforts. Industrial strength techniques were used to scour oil off the beaches with blasts of hot water. Many of the fragile marine organisms in the beach zone were scalded and some of the oil was driven deeper into the sediment. Also, birds, whales and other wildlife were probably disturbed by the armada of aircraft and helicopters and flotilla of more than 1,400 boats brought in to help with the clean-up. Contrary to public opinion, Prince William Sound is no longer an environmental disaster zone. Despite the oleaginous assault, the beaches remain startlingly beautiful. The water is clear once again and the devastatilng scenes of drowning oil-slicked otters are gone. AU that remains is an occasional rainbow sheen on the water and dark bands of weathered oil, resembling bathtub rings, along about 10 percent of the coastline. The weathered crude on rocks and beaches will remain unsightly for three to six years but has already become relatively nontoxic. · The American public responded vociferously when The Amazon - A Dying Rain Forest: Can We Interfere? By HANNAH HAZEN As Brazil's farmers torch the Amazon, the rainforests are ablaze, sending clouds of dark thick smoke into the skies above its lush green canopy. This is the time of year when cattle ranchers and farmers perform their annual ritual of destroying the rain forests in order to clear land for crops and cattle. This year the destruction seems to be magnified as more trees are leveled, vast amounts of land are flooded by dams and miners poison the mighty river with mercury. Worldwide attention is being focused on the rescue of these ancient forests. as people become aware of the endangered environments of their planet, and fear the reality of losing the Amazon and its treasures forever. The Amazon River itself is 4,000 miles long and delivers an average of 170 billion gallons of water to the Atlantic. The jungle surrounding it is dense, moist rain forest with an unusual variety of plant and animal life making it unique among the different natural environments of the earth. \A 1982 U.S. National Academy of Sciences report estimated that a typica14 sq. mi. patch of rain forest may contain 750 species of trees, 125 kinds of mammals, 400 types of birds, 100 of reptiles and 60 of amphibians. Each tree itself may support more than 400 insect species.\ With the destruction of the Amazon 1 million species would disappear. The rain forest may also contain the answers to many human problems. As well as revealing new food sources, jungle chemicals have also been found which may replace certain pesticides as well as lead to treatments for human illnesses and diseases. Some chemicals have alre~tdy led to cures for various fomis Of cancer. Climatic disaster is another major concern of scientists, which we could face if the Amazon is destroyed. Generating large amounts of clouds the rain forest is an important factor in how the sun's heat is dispersed throughout the earth. If this process is disturbed it could lead to numerous changes in our climate for us to deal with. It is also predicted that the fires might magnify the greenhouse effect because of the large amounts of carbon dioxide they would produce. This buildup of carbon dioxide could lead to drastic climatic changes by increasing temperatures which would warm up the earth and pose problems for all people. Up until this point Brazil has only provided motives for destroying the Amazon, by offering tax incentives and subsidies supported by the government and Sudain,. which is an ag.ency for the development of Amazonia. However. now the world is putting pres sure on sthe Sarney administration and is forcing them to take some form of action. Trying to get some of the pressure off their backs, Continued on page 9 Biology Club Meeting Monday, October 2nd 5:30 p.m. in the Ryon Room (across from the Biology Department office) Exxon suggested that it might not resume fuLl-scale clean-up in the spdag. Scientists, however, have come to believe that by spring continued efforts wilt do more harm than good; indeed, that may already have been the case; By spring, the oil deposits that remain will pose , virtually no environ men tal threat, accordiong to many marine experts. ·:\ The 400 previous oil spills into Prince William Sound amounted to a relatively miniscule 200 barrels. Obviously, the extent of future damage from such a large spill as that of the Vald·ez will not immediately be known. The major lesson of the spill is that next time there had better not he ai next time. Today'.s cl~a:ning methods ate a decade out .Of date· and are liSeless for large ·spills. Even with increasing technology and a pledge olf $250 million over the neKct five years to improve c:leaJI-Ilp procedures, it appears evident that there is no techn:ical fix within. sight to handle a major spill. In the meatltime, environmentalists will still preach energy coaservation and the oil indu~ try will continue to insist that U.S. security depends on a steady supply of domestic crude. However, both sides do agree on one .J>oint_: given the foibles of human behavior and the· Limits .of technology, it seems that other catastrophic oil ac:cidents are inevitable. FACULTY RESEARCH DEADLINE ... The Subcouncil on Research and Grants is · now soliciting proposals f()r faculty research . and scholarship activities. Applications and · guidelines are available in Dean Butte:rstein's · Office (S-100, S & E). The deadline for, submission of proposals is October 2, f989. Questions. concerning th~ Faculty Research Fund sl1ould be directed t-0 Dean Butterstein. When preparing budgets. please remembeJ · that ·per diem rates are normally limited to · $50.00 per day. Transportation costs should : also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the pro poosal must have preliminary approval fr()m the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants.

CONCOJU)IENSTS September 28, 1989 SCIENCE AND TE·CHNOLOGY Union College Creates Women's Study Major ,, ' Union. College, whic~ was an all-male school fm most of its' history, added a women's studies major in. September. The major will require 13 courses, . including an introductory course and a two- term senior project. The remaining 10 courses must be selected from courses organized into five categories: 'theoretic.al and literar)', historical, wodd, biological and psychological, and contemporary. The addition of a women's studies major is symbolic at Union because the college was all-male for 175 years~- until 1970-- and that male image still persists in some people's minds, said Donileen R. Loseke, a visiting assistant profes.sor of sociology and acting director of the Women's Studies Program. Women now make up 45% of Union's undergraduate body. Among institutions of higher education, Union College is late in developing a women's studies major, but that is workipg to the college's advantage, she said. The college is adding a major at a time when women's studies has gained recognition as a sound academic discipline, Loseke said. \We're dealing with a field that has intellectual credibility now,\ she said. \The scholarship-is e~cellent. \Women's studies is an accepted major on just about every college campus.\ Loseke said the systematic study of gender and the application of. women's perspective in scholarship has produc.ed. \a veritable transformation in intellectual work.\ Concern with the r I' expertences of women, for instance, has led historians in general to discover the importance of examining daily life, greatly increased the canon of ;English literature to include previously ignored women writers, and caused sociologists to distinguish \men's work\ from \women's work\ in studying modem employment, she said. Loseke, of Saratoga Springs, emphasized the coherent and interdisciplinary nature of the new major. \This is a classical liberal arts major\ that produces people \who can think, analyze and synthesize,\ she said. \It doesn't allow students to be narrow. Gender intersects everything.\ Most of the courses for the major already have been available and individual students already could create a women's studies major with a professor's approval, but the new women's studies program creates a more formal academic package, Loseke said. A women's studies major, she said, can be used in preparation for careers in law, social services, the arts, publishing and teaching as well as preparation for graduate studies in social sciences, humanities and women's studies. GET YOUR FUTURE OFF THE GROUND Imagine the thrill of fly- ing a jet aircraft! Air Force ROTC offers )OU leadership training and an excellent start to a ca- reer as an Air Force pilot lf )QU have what it takes, check out Air Force ROTC today. Contact: MAJOR TIM SERAIT 518•276·8024 If you are in Bio 16, 18, 23 or 24 and would like some help studying ... '810-BACK UP Every Tuesday evening from 7- 9 PM· in the Ryon Room (across from the Biology Department Office) Incirieration: Is It Just A \Landfill In The Sky?\ Ey GEORGE KENNY \American industry produced a.bout 300 million tons of lla:zardous waste last year. That's over a ton of toxic waste for every man, woman, and child in the nation.\ Every year, land. based bazardous waste incinerators spew thousands of toxic wastes into the atmosphere we brea.the. Every .day Congress closes its eyes to this threat to our environment 'Two decades ago; Congress pass·ed a series of laws curtailing \direct discharge to water and shallow land burial of hazardous waste.\ However, reg11lation of air emissions is a topic yet untouched. Currently, one percent of all hazardous waste produced in the United States is disposed via incinerators. Although in<Jinerators have been operating for years, little is known about their risks to the public because they tend to be located in developed areas where the effects are not easily distinguishabl~~from the effects of other toxic air emissions (s11ch as automobile emissions). In spite of the possible da:n:gers, the Office of Technology Assessment has approved a plan to increase waste disposal through incinerators to 20% of all ha:zardous waste produced. This wo11ld call for the development an.,d construction of new incinerators and a push to maximu.m capacity and oJ}erating times of all existing incinerators. The danger of incinerators comes from the heavy metals and PIC's, \products of imcomplete com'bllstion,\ emitted in the stack gases. Most hazardous waste, such as a chlorinated organic solvent, when bumed, break down into carbon dioxide, water, and chlorine. Of these, only chlmine is toxic. But, the hot molecules often rearrange and recombine into many new, relatively complex chemicals, so called \products of incomplete combustion.\ Some of the most notorious PIC's are. chloroform, formaldehyde and diox.ins. Dioxins are so toxic that a safe level of exposure cannot be determined. A study performed by the Canadian government in 1983, determined that industrial incinerators are the greatest contributors of dioxins to th environment. Besides burning wastes, hazardous waste incinerators also generate waste in the form of ash and residues ·from air pollution control devices. These can amount to as much as. 29% of the mass of the original waste. The rnos t common method of di~posal of this concentrated wast is burial in landfills. Ironically, incinerawrs that have air pollution control devices do not reduce toxic emissions from incinerators even one percent. Instead, they simply shift them from one medium, air, tto another, water or soil. To dat~, the EPA has claimed that due to a lack of resou. rces \ ... the A gene y continues to experience difficultie~ !both in assessing and managjng hazardous waste incinerator pr.o ,gram~.\ In recent months, the !EPA has restricted six categ,0'ries of air contaminent:s emitted Dy incinerators. Yet, their own Advisory iBCJI!rd has admitted that these actions have been inadequate at best. The risks from hazardous waste inc in~ ration are sti II unknown. It:; appeal lies in its ability to make hazardous waste .seem to disappear. It has already been called the only \permatJent\ solution. In reality, incineration has only led rns tu filling our air. . water, and S()i} with substances three to f0our times as toxic as the garbagetl!at produced it At thi:s point, source reduction-- avoiding the generation !()fhazardous waste-· is the only f~asible solution to the proiJlem. Much hazardous waste is m. ade up of imperfect products and r:aw materials that were poor!, processed, the result of inefficient or careless operations. Good management, high prQdl!ction efficiency and non-toxic teclmologies are in everyone's ~elf-interest. Hazardous ~aste is not a fact of life. S.ol!rce reduction is a real is tic answer to the hazardous waste problem. A Dying Rain Forest. .. Cc:~ntinued from Page 8 they have created a C()nservation package called bur Nature and have developed a·new environmental agency. This is a good start but obviously a lot more has to be done and quickly. The world needs to get involved, but looking back into our own bi:story does America have the right to interfere, and if so euctly how much? This is an important question we should ask ourselves, which President J()se Barney raised when he brought up Tongass with visiting U.S. senators. The Tongass N a tiona! Forest is North America's largest temperate rain forest and the closest thing in comparison to the Amazon. For many years the U.S. government has· subsidized the destruction of this rain forest which is an example of the \ecological recklessness\ within our own country. Instead of keeping it as a sanctuary, in 1947 the Congress anthorized the Forest Service to create contracts with timber companies which would build pulp mills and supply jobs. Located in sou them Alaska, it turns out that poor weather alld remote location have made io,gging there very uneconomical. Therefore 500 year-old tree51lave been cut and sold at extren..ely low costs and now there is nothing to slt0ow for it or reJll ace all the damage that has be.en done. Seeing tll e destruction that has taken pi ace in our own cou.nt:ry, I f<eel it is America's responsib:ilit:y to help keep Brazil from. making the same mistalce. Wha.t do you think? Sources: 'Time, Sept. l8; New York. \Times Sept. 20. Big Brothers I Big Sisters Informational Meeti.ng Date: Mon., Oct 2nd Place: Hale House Time: 7:00 p.m. - 9:00 p.m. *If you cannot attend ttte me.eting but are still interested in finding out about Big Brothers f Big Sisters please call the agency at 374-4523. ·.. ..··Write: fOr SCierice & ... .: ···'·· •. ···:·c.··. 11.·. 1.:· .. •• ·.···Oio .... ·· ... ··.· .. · .. ····· .. ··.·.a·•···.· .. ,............. .. W·De.l- ...... ·.' ':: ' ., ·'' ' ., ', \ ' ' ' ' . ' ' ' ' ' ,, ,. '<.' •,

l· Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September. 28, 1989 ... .....,... rbirnsis LETTERS . . Founded at Union College 1877 --- Offense Taken, None Meant Thought police have no plac:e at Union • To the Editors: second, irony, is an intellectual apprehension attending (in this What Frank Gado fQund case) the discrediting of . \ o b s c e n e 1 y fu n n y \ something rejected--a response · \Achievements of tile DDR, as muoh as cerebral as visceral. Currently, Schenectady Police Detective September 21, 1989\ most The first response is primitive other critics of repressive ai1d one-dimensional because it Larry Attanasio is searching for six different regimes would find deliciously can't incl-ude the second. The rapists in the· area. With a world of crime · ironic: that a speaker from the second can include the first but d . ld h th t East German embassy in also goes beyond it in the way surroun · tng us, one wou Op· · e ·· a we · wa.s.·h.I'ng·.ton ·s'.hout.d ft\n· d · h · td · h responses s ou · tn · t e W·Ould not encounter SUCh dangers in OUr himself billed to present a talk academy -- into a realm OWn back yard. Yet, recently one incident, · entitled \Achievements of the informed by reason .as weU as a1thoug· h not a hideously violent crime, has GDR'' just when the world is emotion. . witnessing a dramatic exodus Now I must ask, did anyone of.irotty? More importantly, did anyone besides Franl;: seriously dorrptthat there could ever .be a lack of b:lfortned and eag~r rebuttal from the audience for this. particular speaker -- in case the overwhebning irony alone· were not rebuttal ·· enough? Most importantly of · all, perhaps, is anyone else ready to suggest that Union College au.diences are so immature un.der any circumsta11ces as to need thought-police, patronizers to do their thinking for them? required the immediate action of the ofrefugeesfromthese_so-called else besides .Frank miss the Administration. accomplishments. built,. in rebutting power of this While the inciden. t had no malicious. intent . . Frank's response, fury, is an irony? Did anyone really think Sincerely yours, emotional reaction to that we presented an apologist Anton Wade whatsoever, it did, in fact, ''threaten or something he clearly bates; the for the GDR without a sense Dept. ofModern Languages endanger the well being or safety\ of others. ---------------------. ------· ---· - ........ ----..-- ......... ----.-:-, ----.. .............. ___ .,.....,..,_ The Men's Rugby Club, following in a. HGoodbye Milano Lounge!' . tradition of sorts, did not think before they··------------------..:~~---------------=--_,__..,._........._ __ ____ acted. They did not take into consideration To the Editor: the people \from higher up\ person from \higher up\ who had established that the Milano contributed to this new -policy, the implications of their actions. The \skellar Every year the International Lounge would no longer be I woUld like you to respond and P ractice\ ritual, done in fun and team spirit, is Student Union organizes a fall available for any student group to explain your thinking. I . reception to welcome all the - as the woman from Central thQught tbat this campus was in fact for many offensive. If the practice lS : new international students to Scheduling told me. Only the for the students, since their COntained to the team only and those WhO . campus. As in the past, we Administration will be able to economic .contribution is h t b th th th · h proceeded to reserve the usual use it in the future. Since this cr.u.cial to the maintenance of C . OOSe 0 e · ere, en · ere lS no arm • room, the Milano L()unge, as appeared to be a new the facilities. Now I atn a little done. It is only when they \interfere with the . the location for our reception. regulation, I asked for the confused. Would you please right tO personal privacy of any member of Things did not go as-smoothly reasons that might have pushed help me? That'.s all from down the COmmunity\ that harm is done. as usual, because unfortunately the Administration to make below. Thank You. · this year we were no.t able to such a decision, but no one at This is not to say that the Men's Rugby reserve the Milano Lounge. Central Scheduling seemed to Club is a bunch of ugly rapists who want to . The reason was not that it has know; they were just passing · 1 h h' h h. already been reserved for on information from \higher Vl 0 ate t e WOmen On t lS campuS, rat er t lS . someone else, but simply that up\ to the students. If you are a Cristina Calvi '91 Co..Chairman of International Student Union is to stress the implications of such assumedly innocent acts. Anything that • makes anyone, not just -women, feel personally jeopardized in any way is a . violation of their personal rights. Perhaps, · the measures the Administration is taking will enforce this point and bring it into student · According to Dr. Spock, breathing can be hazardou~ fo your children's health. . consciousness. Throughout our community, actions seen as innocent often have hidden implications. Fraternity parties are frequently the environment for such occurrences. Men and women alike recurrently do not recognize that their actions may be threatening to others. No o'ne is granted the license to act · barbarically even though offensive behavior is so widely practiced. One must take responsibility for one's own actions, regardless of how others behave. There are no excuses. For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction: equal in intensity, opposing in force. The Administration is reacting appropriately to the actions of the • Men's Rugby Club. The measures being · taken are legitimate and the sentence justified. In the real world actions such as these are . treated far more seriously. Jail sentences, lawsuits, and criminal records are the effects • of such exploits. We cannot get away with . these things outside of Union, and we will no longer get away with them here. flir pollution is an at uund us and it hurts children infections. When infections are coupled with irritating air 111o~:t Kid~ inhale nH•re pol\ulanls JX'r· puund than achllts, pollutants the damage to young lungs is·inlcnsiflcd. <ll!d their l!!nJltb or c>.:pu:mn.: is lon~er, which increases So do what Dr. Spock recommend~. Call or write their ri'k or permancnl damage. 1\dclitionnlly, children ...... - .. ~ !he Public Inform&tion Office Of the Sicrm Cl~b and under 10 hm.'(' <111 in~rl!a~(!d ra\c of rcspirntory ,_:...,~ :-'\ lind out what you c:m dolo IJCii> clear lhc mr . ~'<,!. .. SIERM~~ 1 ~~~ ' -.;..CLUB l'ubltc Information. 730 Polk Street San Fmncisco, California 94109 415/776-2211 Letters to the Editor do not necessarily . refle.ct the • • OplDIODS of the Editorial ·Board ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE' SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LE'ITERS AND . THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED.

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 .......... ~. .rbtrnsts LETTERS Found('d at Union College 1877 --- Offense Taken, None Meant Thought police have no place at Union Currently, Schenectady Police Detective Larry Attanasio is searching for six different rapists in the· area. With a world of crime surrounding us, one would hope that we would not encounter such dangers in our own back yard. Yet, recently one incident, although not a hideously violent crime, has required the immediate action of the Administration. To the Editors: What Frank Gado found \obscenely funny\ \Achievements of the DDR, September 21, 1989\ most other critics of repressive regimes would find deliciously ironic: that a speaker from tlile East German embassy in Washington should find himself biHed to present a talk entitled \Achievements of the GDR'' just when the world is witnessing a dramatic exodus of refugees from these so-called accomplishments. Frank's response, fury, is an emotional reaction to something he clearly hates; the second, irony, is an inteUectual apprelilension attending (in this case) tbe discrediting of something rejected--a response as much as cerebral as visceral. The first response is primitive and one-dimensional because it can't include the second. The second can include the first but also goes beyond it in the way responses should in the academy -- into a realm informed by reasmt as well as emotion. Now I must ask, did anyone else besides Frank miss the built-in rebutting power of this irony? Did anyone really think that we presented an apologist for the GDR without a sense of. irony? More importantly, did anyone besides Fran!~ seriously doubtt:hat there could ever be a lack of informed and eager rebuttal from the audience for this particular speaker -- in case the overwhelming irony alone were not rebuttal enough? Most importantly of aU, perhaps, is anyone else ready to suggest that Union College audiences are so immature und:e'.r any circumstances as to need thought-police, patronizers to do their thinking for them? Sincerely yours, Anton Wade Dept. of Modern Languages While the incident had no malicious intent whatsoever, it did, in fact, \threaten or endanger the well being or safety\ of others. The Men's Rugby Club, following in a tradition of sorts, did not think before they acted. They did not take into consideration the implications of their actions. The \skellar practice\ ritual, done in fun and team spirit, is· in fact for many offensive. If the practice is contained to the team only and those who choose to be there, then there is no harm done. It is only when they \interfere with the right to personal privacy of any member of the community\ that harm is done. \Goodbye Milano Lounge!\ To the Editor: Every year the International Student Union organizes a fall reception to welcome all the new international students to campus. As in the past, we proceeded to reserve the usual room, the Milano Lounge, as the location for our reception. Things did not go as smoothly as usual, because unfortunately this year we were not able to reserve the Milano Lounge. The reason was not that it has already been reserved for someone else, but simply that the people \from higher up\ had established that the Milano Lounge would no longer be available for any student group - as the woman from Central Scheduling told me. Only the Administration will be able to use it in the future. Since this appeared to be a new regulation, I asked for the reasons that might have pushed the Administration to make such a decision, but no one at Central Scheduling seemed to know; they were just passing on information from \higher up\ to the students. If you are a person from \hl.gher up\ who contributed to this new policy, I would like you to respond and to explain yo11r thinking. I thought that this campus was for the students, since their economic contribution is crucial to the maintenance of the facilities. Now I am a little confused. Would you please help me? That's all from down below. Thank You. Cristina Calvi '91 Co-Chairman of International Student Union This is not to say that the Menis Rugby Club is a bunch of ugly rapists who want to violate the women on this campus, rather this is to stress the implications of such assumedly innocent acts. Anything that makes anyone, not just women, feel personally jeopardized in any way is a violation of their personal rights. Perhaps, the measures the Administration is taking will enforce this point and bring it into student According to Dr. Spock, breathing can be hazardou~ to your children's health. . consciousness. Throughout our community, actions seen as innocent often have hidden implications. Fraternity parties are frequently the environment for such occurrences. Men and women alike recurrently do not recognize that their actions may be threatening to others. No one is granted the license to act barbarically even though offensive behavior is so widely practiced. One must take responsibility for one's own actions, regardless of how others behave. There are no excuses. For every action there is an equal and opposite reaction: equal in intensity, opposing in force. The Administration is reacting appropriately to the actions of the Men's Rugby Club. The measures being taken are legitimate and the sentence justified. In the real world actions such as these are treated far more seriously. Jail sentences, lawsuits, and criminal records are the effects of such exploits. We cannot get away with these things outside of Union, and we will no longer get away with them here. 1\11 j~lllllilllll\ ;ril Dl UlliiU liS illlrilllill! L~ childr~n I)ICI'.I l\111, ''''\ll•·moll'l'ollul;llll~ 1•·rpound IIL\11 ,ululh, l'rlhlr< lr!lorntalron 7.>0 Polk Str<\'l Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE· SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED.

CONCORDlENSlS, September 28, 1989 F~ge ll PROMOTIONAL TO:D·AY! The Ho:mecomtng T .. shirt will debut, as well .;~s FR:E'E apples, popcorn and Homecoming Buttons. .\The Way We Were, The Way .weru Be'• Hom.ecom,ing O,ctobe:r :6, 7, '89 8 EMERGENCY & COURTESY TELEPHONES The College installed an extensive \emergency ph.one hotline\ network throl.,lghout the campus. There are nine outdoor emergency phones housed in RED telephone boxes at these locations: - 27 North ']:'errace Lane Southeast corner o.f Arts Building East side Achilles Rink near Whipple Bridge East side Bailey Hall Corner South Terrace Lane and South Lane Northeast corner of Davidson House Southwest corner of Humanities Building Northeast corher of Social Sciences Building South side of 17 South Lane TheE;e phones were installed to provide security .access for any person needing emergency help, 24 hours a day. Upon lifting the handset of the hotline telephone, the Security Office is immediately notified of the location of that phone, and will dispatch an officer to that location to assist the caller needing urgent help. The caller need not :talk for help to be dispat.ch;ed. The College also installed interior WHITE telephones, in pub lie locations, which are prog.rarnmed to be \hotlined\ to College Security when the receiver is lifted off-hook, or to provide courtesy on-campus telephone calling capability. Identification and instructions for use are provided next to all teLephones .. Five outdoor telephones housed in GRAY telephone boxes were installed on the following exterior building entran.ceways which provide calling capability to any on-campus extension: West College: South College: Fox House: North and South Entrances West Entrance North and s.outh Entrances Any telephone noted to be mal functionihg or damaged should be reported i:nrnediately to the Telecommunications Office, Ext. 6411. EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS FOR ALL EMERGENCIES DIAL COLLEGE SECURITY & SAFE'r'l:-EXT. 6911 24-hour direct connection to all services. Other Emergency Numbers: Fire Department Schenectady Police Ambulance Service College In~irmary Building R~pairs 374-3111 374-7744 374-4401 Ext. 6121 Ext. 6181 TO OETAIN A.N ENTRY'FO RM AND INSTRUCTIONS ABOii.JT C;ClNTEST After receivi11~the N~l:lel Peace Prize in I 986, Elie Wiesel <'stablish<'d a Foundaticm for Humanity. Its ptupose: to ~tdvancc .the cause or human rights and peace hy ' creating a forum f()t th.e dis<ussion of urgent ethical issues confronting humankind. · RECIUIREMENTS, SE~llllo. STAMPED, SELF·ADDRESSED ENV £LClPE TO: The 1-:li<• Wi<'Sl'i l'ri.lt' in ~:thk~ The Elie Wicsl'l Foun<la.lit>n fur llum.u1i 11 666 Fifll1 Al·t·nuc. I hl1 Floor Throt1gh its programs, the Foundation hopes to awaken and reinforce lnnnan~ sensil>ilities, inform public ().pinion, and influence the thinking ofdecision makers. II<'Mic '\~ ami c·cn.lc'c'l\ll~ ahl)tll <'lhks an~ I!C>I llt'\V, I~VCI'Y eJ'll has had its share of shady deal makers, but toclay, . ._,__~newspaper.~ rt~ad like a chmu iclc of' cunuptli:>n. Government, business, academia, :sports, even the church are affected by a11 erosion of ethics and tainted. by people who put self before the common good. One cannot help but ask, \Are eth!ics passe, quaint relics in a fast-movinll, ego-Centric age?\ Concerned about such questions, The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Hlllmanity announces an annual essay contest intended to challenge senior studenu in colleges and universities tO give attention to the ethical questions and issues facing them. in a complel- amd ever- changing world, As the result of a generous grant fr:om E. Billie Ivry of New York, the Fourndation Will offer the following prizes: FfRSt PRIZE: $6,000 SECOND PRIZE: $3,000 THIRD PRIZE: $2,000 THREE HONORABLE MENTIONS LENGTH OF ESSAY: Reiwcen 3,000 ancl 4 ,()()() words. TYPE OF ESSAY: Nonfiction prose writing. The essay may l1e developed fl•om any point of view and can take the form of a case study, a personal experience, or it may be an analysis that is philosophical, historical, biogmJ1h ical, ~ociological, theological, psychologic:11, etc. Students are encouraged to raise <JUCslions, single · out issues, and icle11 tify dilemmas. ELIGIBILITY: llH~ wdler muM be a full· time snnior sti\lent enrolled in an a<TI'(•rlitr<l rollq;:c or llllil'crsity in ( :onnt't'linll, {)('!mvnn•, l;loricla, Ge<>rgia, Massachusetts, Maine, N.orth Carolina, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, l'ennsylv:\llia, l~lwrk Jshuill, South Cai·oliml, Virgi1iia, Vermont. or the District of Columbia. No more than three (:\) <'.~says from 'I lit• snlllt' <·olll•gt~, Nc.·w \nl.. ~\' 11110:1 Univt:rsily, or campu~ will be cmisid ... ·rc.,<l in any one con lest year. DEADLINE: E.ssays n1ust be poStmarked hy December ~n. 19H\), l>r received ir111.hc.· office of The Elil· Wi('scl ~-oundat i1~11 lilr Humanity lJy !i:OO j>-111. on Dt•celnhl:!r 29,. 1989. DETERMINATION OF AWARDS: Es!!>a,~ tntlst be the {)riginal, unpu hlished worl\ of :the author ancl cannot· lie submil!ed elsewhere lllllil after the awards <Lrt· announced, The deci~ions of the j11<lges are final. WINNERS ANNOUNCED: Winrtc·r' will lw annouucccl hy M<trd1 :{0, l\IHO ami will lw notified in writing, The colllcst o-llhi:ollly ends with the announcement of the::: winners. RIGHTS OF PUBLICATION: Tlw Elit· 1'-'it·•wl Foundation fin·l-tum:mityrescrv~s ll•c right to pttblish the First, Scct>nc[, <llilc:l Third l'lacc winnhlg essays. Entr~111 ts :~rc advised to retain a copy of their essoars. as ilo essays will be nmrned.

CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 Page I 1 PROMOTIONAL DAY TODAY! The Homecoming T-shirt will debut, as well as FREE apples, popcorn and Homecoming Buttons. \The Way We Were, The Way We'll Be\ Homecoming October 6, 7, '89 8 EMERGENCY & COURTESY TELEPHONES The College installed an extensive \emergency phone hotline\ network throughout the campus. There are nine outdoor emergency phones housed in RED telephone boxes at these locations: 27 North Terrace Lane Southeast corner of Arts Building East side Achilles Rink near Whipple Bridge East side Bailey Hall Corner South Terrace Lane and South Lane Northeast corner of Davidson House Southwest corner of Hu~anities Building Northeast corner of Social Sciences Building South side of 17 South Lane These phones were installed to provide security access for ar:y person needing emergency help, 24 hours a day. Upon lifting the handset of the hotline telephone, the Security Office is immediately notified of the location of that phone, and w i 11 dispatch an officer to that location to assist the caller needing urgent help. The caller need not talk for help to be dispatched. The College also installed interior WHITE telephones, in public locations, which are programmed to be \hotlined\ to College Security when the receiver is lifted off-hook, or to provide courtesy on-campus telephone calling capability. Identification and instructions for use are provided next to all telephones. Five outdoor telephones housed in GRAY telephone boxes installed on the following exterior building entranceways provide calling capability to any on-campus extension: West College: South College: Fox House: North and South Entrances West Entrance North and South Entrances were which Any telephone noted to be malfunctioning or damaged should be reported i~mediately to the Telecommunications Office, Ext. 6411. EMERGENCY TELEPHONE NUMBERS FOR ALL EMERGENCIES DIAL COLLEGE SECURITY & SAFETY-EXT. 6911 24-hour direct connection to all services. Other Emergency Numbers: Fire Department Schenectady Police Ambulance Service College Infirmary Building Repairs 374-3111 37~-7744 37~-~401 Ext. 6121 Ext.. 6181 TO OBTAIN 4N ENTRY FORM 4NO INSTRUCTIONS 4BOUT CONTEST REQUIREMENTS, SEND 4 STAMPED, After receiving the Nobel Peace Prize in 19R6, Elie Wi('sd <'~lal>li~ll('d a Foundation for Humanity. Its purpose: to advance Lhc cause of lttnnan righ l> and JH'<It\l' IJ\ ' creating a forum for the discussion of urgent ethical issues confroming humankind. SELF-ADDRESSED ENVELOPE TO: The Elic- \\'tncl 1'1111' 111 f:thu' The Elie \\\tnd FutiiHirlti<>ll fnt llnlll.llltll 666 Filth t\1 cntl<', II th Hoot Through its programs, the Foundation hopes to awaken ami rei nfcwce humant' sensibilities, inform public opinion, and innuence the thinking of decision makt.:r'i. uc·•tio11, and nllll't'I'IIM aho111 t•lhin an• no! li<'W, Evt•ry era has hac! its share of shady deal makers, but today, _....._ ___ ~ new~papt•rs rc·ad like a chronicle of rotTuption. Government, business, academia, sports, even the church are affected by an erosion of ethics and tainted by people who put self before the common good. One cannot help but ask, \Are ethics passe, quaint relics in a fast-moving, ego-centric age?\ Concerned about such questions, The Elie Wiesel Foundation for Humanity announces an annual essay contest intended to challenge senior students in colleges and universities to give attention to the ethical questions and issues facing them in a complex and ever· changing world. As the result of a generous grant from E. Billie lvry of New York, the Foundation will offer the following prizes: FIRST PRIZE: $5,000 SECOND PRIZE: $3,000 THIRD PRIZE: $2,000 THREE H«lNORABLE MENTIONS LENGTH OF ESSAY: n,•twcc·n 3,000 ;mel 4,000 wonk TYPE OF ESSAY: ~onfiction prose writing. Th<' '''\')\ IJJ,r)' h!' developed !rum auy point of view and ran take the for·m of a c.tse 'tucly, a personal cxperience, or it may be an ar1alysis tllal is philcJsophical, lli~torical, l>io~raphical, sociological, <heologir,tl. psychologkal, etc. Students a1 e en C<>lii\<Ji-><'cllo r.tise que,tions, single out issues, a11rl identtfy dilernm•\· ELIGIBILITY: The Wlllt'l\ mtl\1 he a full- time '''nior studt'lll enrolled i11 an arrn•dil<'d n>llq~<' or uni\·pr,ily in ( :o11m't tint!, lki.JW<IIt', Florid.,, Georgia, I\la~s.och u'elt.l, :-.!aim. 1\orth Carolina, :'\cw llalllJHhire, :-Jew .Jrrsey, New York, l't•lfm)\ll';lllia Rhode (,land, Smtih Caroli11a, Vir~iuia, \'ennont. or the Di,t.ric-1 of C:\lum hi a. No rnorr than three (:1) t'\\,1)' lin Ill till' .\,litH\ t olk~t·, Nt•w \i11 ~. :--;y lll\!J:\ L._ ___________ --- unhcrsily, \' tdlllj>t\ willllt' tllll\Hit•J.-d \' any one r<>n tt''t year. DEADLINE: E'\'Y~ mu~t bt' po\im,trkccl h1 December :!9, l!lH~l, \' tt·ceil\.-d 111 tla· offLCe ofTht· ~Jit· Wit·,el Fnunti,Jilllll lnr Humani11· b) :\>:I HI p.m. o11 Dt·t elllht'r ~'1. I~JS9. DETERMINATION OF AWARDS: F.\·'\ mu\1 be the origin.tl. unpuhil\ht·rl \mk of the attllior and <.llmol ht· ,uhtllitled elsewhl're lllllil .nlt<·r t.lll' ''\·\d' .lit' announ<e<l. The den~ions of the jtldge' are final. WINNERS ANNOUNCED: Wtlllll\t \til la- anllolllllt\<l hy M.u<h :w, l~l'lll,ulll 111lllw notificrlnl \\' iltllg. Tile conte'l nlru 1.dh ends with the announcement of the winners. RIGHTS OF PUBLICATION: TIH\ Fill' \\.'\'\·1 Foitnchllion [or llumanity lt''t'IH'' lilt· rig 111 to publish the Fint, Semnd, and Third l'lace winnin~ t's.•ays. Entrant1 illl' ad.,iserl to l\l'tain a C<lJl)' of their rs'a''· ,,, no essays wiiiiJe returned.

Page 12 CONCORDlENSIS, September 28, 1989 ARTS & ENTE~TAINMENT Idol Chatter ... ,.h M · • ·o· ,. -~· · d.·· · \ · ·,. e · .USIC . _ · · . n ·1a -- involved in creating a (Odes'To ''Hugo'') By TONI SUBKLEWE composition of Indian :ttmsic, and he demonstrated 'some of these techniques on an instrument similar to a guitar, called a sarod. \Look Who's Dancing'' by Llina Schweitz~r Arts Editor A street light shining on a car named Desire and then the trees ... I should have noticed them: breathing with the awakening r alm, mftling their foliage (but not in vain) and shaking loose their dying leaves onto the huddled garbage bags beneath them . And with the stage light before them, their silent shadows cast, miming gestures (upon the house behind them) as in a tribal stance: branching· far above the roof top, merging in-to-gether ... tlten into a sudden HALT. The calm before ... but then. again they began their Arabian dance. \To The Stran·ger\ by M.B. Hi, Hi How've you heen? Good. Good. So intimate for strangers So strange for lovers Warm wind and a storm that never quite broke Here we are Dancing in backyard shadows Wrestling by a fence. Bug bites amidst a passion Old friends in new form Fine appreciation of the form Hello, who are you? Smile Sweet wind in the leaves Nice to meet you. I Cs Friday afternoon and I'm sitting in the Arts Building, wondering \what am I doing here?'', \How can I possibly review a concert of the \M.usic ofindia\ when I've never heard Indian music before?\ As I looked around, I saw s~veral strang.e l-ooking wooden instruments, and a group of people dressed in baggy clothiAg and scarves shting Indian style on a rug in the front of the room. · Then I noticed that these people were all barefoot. \That's odd\ I thought. As I continued to look around, I realized that it wasn't odd at all; no one was wearing shoes. Then I looked down at my own feet, no one was wearing shoes, except me! After contemplating for a moment what to do, I quickly added my shoes to the pile that had collected outside the entrance to the dance studio. Then returning to my seat I hoped I would be able to get through the rest of the show without any furtbet embarrassment After a short wait the Specifically, the demonstration was of North Indian music, in the blues-like Thumri vocal style. The group consisted of two instrumentalists and one vocalist. Zakir Hussein, the percussionist,. played a type of drum native to North India caHed _Tabla Drums. The sarod, an instrument .similar to a lute or a guitar, wa.s played by Buddhadev Das Gupta and the unique style of singing was performed by vocalist Gir J adevi. The unusual sounds created by these instruments and vocals combined to produce an interesting and exotic style of music. · - ** ' * ** - * *' * * - *** Internships in Europe · presentation began with Buddhadev Das Gupta, a member of the group, giving a short lecture on the basics of Indian music. Be spoke in a very technical manner about the basics of the music tbey were about to perform. He described three k~y concepts Hussein explained that this type of music is \based on the vocal system\. The notes that are played are determined by wltat key the vocalist decides to sing on. All members of the group seemed to have had great respect for the singer because they considered' her to be the most important part of their music. The vocalist appeared to orchestrate the entire group through the use of her voice. The word \vocalist\ seems more appropriate than \singer\ in describing J adevi because she seemed to be \playing\ her voice (as any musician would Continued on page 13 ~- - - - - - - - -- -- .... - - ... - -- - ..... - - -. ¥ Programs in london, Bonn, Paris, Madrid.~ Brussels ¥ A wide range of placements- se111estennd summer ¥ Full academiccredit- financial aid maybe applicable I Board and lodging refund i nclucte<l in fee The Study Abroad or International Programs Office on campus has fu II detai Is, or co ntac::t: Study Abroad Office, lctttirnore 312, University of Rochester, Rochester N1' 14627'(716) 215-2354. - 0 ~ i; :r: = 0 - IDOL WORKSHOPS Help U find your own voice in Creative Writing Come to our meetings: Mondays at 8:00 in Carnegie Room 204 t CLIP 'N·· SAVE 1 I I : THE NEW 8.97 : I I I This week the countdown m·oves like quicksilver, two-stepping 1 1 with no place to go. Listen to the boss of the Hed Hot ChiH 1 1 Peppers, throw in the backbeat of the B-52's, and a touch of 1 1 the now defunct Mambo-X for local flavor, and you'll see that 1 1 even the dead can dance. ' 1 I 1 Thank you. : Artist 1 t. Camper Van Beethoven I 2. Hoodoo Gurus I 3. Red Hot Chili Peppers I I 4. Mambo-X I 5. B-52's I 6. Squeeze : 7. VariOus 1 8. The Stone Roses I 8.97 Primitives 12\ I Title ,Key Lime Pie Magnum Cum Louder Mother's Milk Whirled Cosmic Thing Frank Mashin' The Nation Stone Roses \Sick Of It\ I I Label I Virgin RCA EMI Wang a Reprise A&M Razorbeat I I I I I I I I I I' Silvertone 1 'RCA I I -~----- ' --·--·\-- ---- --------·

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, September 28,. 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Idol Chatter ••rh M • of 1 d. \ e US:I!C · · ;n 10 (Odes To \Hugo\) ,lJinln~· llll iH Oi n;t Sdn\ l'illtr \ rh Fclitor .t~..;tr n;tltll'd ik-.n\' ;tnd then tlh.' tn?•:-. ... I -.;hnuld ha\·c JHltirl·d them: hrt:athint! with thc awakl'ning calm. ruflling their foliage (but not in vain) and shaking loose '-' their dying leaves onto the huddled garbage bags beneath them. And with the stage light before them, their silent shadows cast, miming gestures (upon the house behind them) as in a tribal stance: branching far above the roof top, merging in-to-gether ... then into a sudden HALT. The calm before ... but then, again they began their Arabian dance. _.. . * . . . . ·. *:1< * .. -· . ·1i ._· *' . . •· .. · * . .. ·. *· ** : . *. . . '. \ hy \LB. IIi. IIi llow'\'e you heen? Good. Good. So intimate for strangers So strange for lovers .__ Wam1 wind and a storm that never quite broke Here we are Dancing in backyard shadows Wrestling by a fence. Bug bites amidst a passion Old friends in new form Fine appreciation of the form Hello, who are you? Smile Sweet wind in the leaves Nice to meet you. ,,.,.., . ·.· t. •: .1. oar:: zs. h .. .. . ,, . to uman By TONI SUBKLEV\'1\ It's Friday afternoon and I'm sitting in the Arts Buildiing, wnnderi ng ·• what am l doing here:·. 'llow can I pos.siih ~~ rc\· ii!\V a cm1cert of the·· M111~ic of India·· when 1\e never heard lnd1an mu~i,· before?\ A..~ I iuoked around, I saw se v~r<JI strange looking woode11 instrument~. and a grotJp, of people dressed in baggy clothing and scarves sitting Indian style on a rug in the front of the room. Then I noticed that these people were all barefoot. \That's od<i' ', I thought. As I continued to look around, I realized ~htat it wasn't odd at all; no one was wearing shoes. Then I loo!ced down at my own feet, no [)Tle was wearing shoes, except rne! After contemplating for a moment what to do, I quic.k!y added my shoes to the pile that had collected outside ttlle entrance to the dance studib Then returning to my seat I hoped I would be able to :get through the rest of the shiO~ without any furtlnn embarrassment. After a short wait tth.e presentation began liNitll Euddhadev Das Gupta, a member of the group, givin!!J a slt':.rt lecture on the basics ()f Indian music. He spoke itn a very technical manner aiJOtl t the basics of the music t!Je:y were about to perform. He described three key conce(lts involved in creating a composition of Indian music, and he demonstrated ~orne of these techniques on an instrument similar to a guitar, called a sarod. Specifically. the demonstration was or :\orth Indian music. in the blues-like Thumri vocal style. The gmup consisted of two instrumentalists and one vocalist. Zakir Hussein, the percussionist, played a type of drum native to North India called Tabla Drums. The sarod, an instrument similar to a ltlte or a guitar, was played by Buddhadev Das Gupta and the unique style of singing was performed by vocalist Gir Jadevi. The unusual sounds created by these instruments and vocals combined to produce an interesting and exotic style of music. Hussein explained that this type of music is \based on the vocal system\. The notes that are played are determined by what key the vocalist decides to sing on. All members of the group seemed to have had great respect for the singer because they considered her to be the most important part of their music. The vocalist appeared to orchestrate the entire group through the use of her voice. The word \vocalist\ seems more appropriate than \singer\ in describing Jadevi because she seemed to be \playing\ her voice (as any musician would Continued on page 13 Internships in Europe .; Programs in London, Bonn, Paris, Madrid & Brussels .- 1 I I ------- ------- --1 ----- ----- CLIP 'N SAVE .; A wide range of placements - semester and summer .; Full academic credit - financial aid may be applicable .; Board and Lodging refund included in fee The Study Abroad or International Programs Office on campus has full details, or contact: Study Abroad Office, lattimore 312, University of Rochester, Rochester NY 14627 (716) 215-2354. -~ c; ~ IV ::J: C) - c C) :;::; = C) Cl) IDOL WORKSHOPS Help U find your own voice in Creative Writing Come to our meetings: Mondays at 8:00 in Carnegie Room 204 D E E M T H A u R T A R ·v A l E E y S E A E E K E N S I I THE NEW 8.97 I I I I I I This week the countdown moves like quicksilver, two-stepping I 1 with no place to go. Listen to the bos.s of the Red Hot Chili 1 1 Peppers, throw in the backbeat of the B-52's, and a touch of 1 the now defunct Mambo-X .for local fla\or and you'll see that 1 even the dead can dance. I 1 Thank you. I : Artist Title label I 1 . Camper Van Beethoven Key Lime Pie Virgin I 2. Hoodoo Gurus Magnum Cum Louder RCA I 3. Red Hot Chili Peppers Mother's Milk EMI I I 4. Mambo-X Whirled Wanga I 5. B-52's Cosmic Thing Reprise I 6. Squeeze Frank A&M I 7. Various Mashin' The t--Jation Razorbeat I I 8. The Stone Roses Stone Roses Silvertone I 8.97 Primitives 12\ \Sick Of It\ RCA I ~---------------------~ I II !I il l

CONCORDJENSIS, September~ Z·8, 1989 Page 13 .. ! ' ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT· Hugh Wilson on Key By JULIE BLUMENFELD Hugh Wilson, chairman of the Arts Department, performed the first Ln a series of organ recitais on Monday, September 25. This series is a surv.ey of masterworks fcr the organ and includes classical composers such as :Bach and Mozart. as well as nl()dern, twentieth ~­ century ccrnposers such as ~ Jehn Alain.. Wilson. a -~ distinguished choitmaster and a < virtuoso soloist at both the -~ organ and the harpsiehord, has b played close to 1,000 organ 5: recitals throu.gbout Europe and the Uoited' States. He designed the recitals. this fall partly as a supplement to \Arts 10\ and also as a general relaxation option for students, faculty, and the public; On Monday, Wilson played selections from five different compoers. He began with Couperin's \Kyrie\ from\Mass For The Convents\. He then played what is one of the most Prof. Hugh Wilson background music, or kind of spiritual outlet for its elsewhere,. representing the dark composer, Jehn Alain. This unknown. piece has a modern, more The third selection was abstract sound. The final piece Brahms' \Two . Chorale was from Vierne's \Final Peludes\ each of which had its Symphony # 1 ;, which had a own distinct sound. The first full orchestral sound in contrast was much simpler than the to traditional organ music. powerful .Bach piece for it had less of a traditional organ sound. The second, \Faith For God\ was fuller and louder with a catchy melody that Wilson pointed out, is very similar to Rogers and Hammerstein's ' famous pieces of organ music; Bach's \Prelude and Fugue in D Minor\. The chillfng beginning of this piece familiarizes even those auditors with little knowledge of music. , 1 'Some Enchanted Evening\. In upcoming recitals, Wilson will perform Mozart, Hindemithe, Dupre, Widort, Messiane, Bach, Alain, and many others. He is also planning to have brass and string quartet accompaniments. The recitals are Mondays from 4:30 to 5:15 p.m. in Memorial Chapel; Oct. 2, 9, 16, 30, and Nov. 6, 13 and 20~ Admission is free. Check it out! If nowhere else, we have all heard this piece boom in~ from haunted houses as eerie Following Brahms, Wilson performed selections by two twentieth centu.ry composers. The first was \The Hanging Garden\ which is considered a Who's Coming to Homecoming? By STEVE HOROWITZ Richard Belzer, the veteran stand-up comic and talk ·show host will be appearing on October -6 at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel, Homecomin·g Weekend. Richard Belzer has had many appearances on \Saturday Night Live';, \The. Tonight Show\ and his own comedy series ott Cinemax, ';'The Rich-ad Belzer Show\. He is also host of the live national talk show, \Hot Prpoerties\ on the Lifetime Cable Net\vork. Belzer makes his home in comedy clubs like \Catch a Rising Star\ \The Richard Belzer lmprov\ and \The Comedy Store'~. His comedy is one with .an edge, laughter with a thrill. Admission will be free~ India Music • • • Continued from page 12 play an instrument)) rather than merely singing words. The vocalist beg an, and the musicians attentively followed her lead as they accompanied her choice <>f notes witb their instruments. What I found most interesting about the performance was the fact that all of the music was entirely improvised; thus, every compositiOll ever performed was completely unique. Hi!ssein described the music as \special because it wru; created right in front of the audience and was left with that audience always\ never to be duplicated. When I went to this concert/demottstration, I had expected to hear a program of incredibly symbolic music which cotddn't possibly be appreciated by someone who had never heard that sort of music before. However, I was pleasantly sw::prised to find that my expectations were · completely wrong. I found the musicians to be highly skilled music enthusiaasts; their lectuie was educational, and the music itself was very unique (a bit bluesy). If this sounds interesting to you, a full length c:oncert of\The Music of India\ is soon to be held at SUNY Albany (for more info. contact the Arts Department); but rcernember, shoes off at the tloor! Watson Fellowship Deadline Oct. 2nd S.ee Prof. Klein with any • quest1ons Parenthood Black Rain Black Rain Sea of Love Cheetah and Friends Uncle Buck Lockup Turner & Hooch The Package The Abyss When Hany Met Uncle Buck Sally When Harry Met Sally The Package Call.Theaters for Show Times .. MOVIES THIS \1eet . ~'o toughest cops i11 tn\\ n. tlrh ..._ HL ... I .Jiil!lt• WEEK jA:\tES BELl'SHI K·9 Dangerous Liaisons K-9 Fri.-Sun. 7, 9:30, 12 Wed., Oct. 4, 7, 9, 1 i

CONCORDIENSIS, September. 28, 19'8\9 Page 13 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Hugh Wilson on Key By JULIE BL,UMENFELD Hugh Wilson, chairman of the Arts Department, performed the first in a series of organ Jecitals on Monday, September 25. This series is a survey of masterworks for the organ and includes classical composers such as Bach and Mozart, as well as modern, twentieth ~ century composers such as ~ Jehn Alain. Wits on, a ~ distinguished choirmaster and a ~ ' virtuoso soloist at both the ~· ) organ and the harpsichord, has b played close to 1,000 organ it recitals throughout Eur()pe and the United States. He designed Prof. Hugh Wilson the recitals this fail partly as a supplement to \Arts 10\ and also as a general relaxation option for students, faculty, and the public. On Monday, Wilson played selections from five different compoers. He began with Couperin's \Kyrie\ from\Mass For The Convents\. He then played what is one of the most famous pieces of organ music, Bach's \Prelude and Fugue in D M in or \ . T h e chi 11 in g beginning of this piece familiarizes even those auditors with little knowledge of music. If nowhere else, we have all heard this piece booming from haunted houses as eerie background music, or kind of spiritual outlet for its elsewhere, representing the dark composer, Jehn Alain. This unknown. piece has a modem, more The third selection was abstract sound. The final piece Brahms' \Two Chorale was from Vierne's \Final Peludes\ each of which had its Symphony #1\ which had a own distinct sound. The first full ()rchestral sound in contrast was much simpler than the to traditional organ music. powerful Bach piece for it had less of a traditional organ sound. The second, \Faith For God\ was fuller and louder with a catchy melody that Wilson pointed out, is very similar to Rogers and Hammerstein's \Some Enchanted Evening\. Following Brahms, Wilson performed selections by two twentieth century composers. The first was \The Hanging Garden\ which is considered a In upcoming recitals, Wi15on will perform M()zart, Hindemithe, Dupre, Widort, Messiane, Bach, Alain, and many others. He is also planning to have brass and string quartet accompaniments. The recitals are Mondays from 4:3() to 5:15 p.m. in Memorial Chapel; Oct. 2, 9, 16, 30, and Nov. 6, 13 and 20. Admission is free. Check it out! Who's Coming to Homecoming? Watson Fellowship Deadline By STEVE HOROWITZ Richard Belzer, the veteran stand-up comic and talk show host will be appearing on October 6 at 8 p.m. in the Memorial Chapel, Homecoming Weekend. Richard Belzer has had. many appearances on \Saturday Night Live\ \Tite Tonight Show\ and his own comedy series on Cinemax, \The Richad Belzer Show\. He is also host of the live national talk show, \Hot Prpoerties\ on the Lifetime Cable Network. Belzer makes his home in comedy clubs like \Catch a Rising Star\ \The Richard Belzer Improv\ and \The Comedy Store\. His comedy is one with an edge, laughter witil a thrill. Admission will be free. India Music • • • Continued from page 12 play an instrument)) rather than merely singing words. The vocalist began, and the musicians attentively followed her lead as they accompanied her choice of notes with their instruments. What I found most interesting about the performance was the fact that all of the music was entirely improvised; thus, every composition ever performed was completely unique. Hussein described the music as \special because it was created right in front of the aadience and was left with that audience always\ never to be duplicated. When I went to this concert/demonstration, I had expected to hear a program of incredibly symbolic music which couldn't possibly be appreciated by someone who had never heard that sort of music before. However, I was pleasantly surprised to find that my expectations were completely wrong. I found the musicians to be highly skilled music enth us iaasts. their lecture was educational, and the music itself was very unique (a bit bluesy). If this sounds interesting to you, a full length concert of \The Music of India\ is soon to be held at SUNY Albany (for more info. contact the Arts Department); but remember, shoes off at the door! Oct. 2nd S.ee Prof. Klein with any • questions · OR;osCOPEs B·Y ''A'' L1BRA: Your n>putation is a! risk if you don't watch your step If you:. are drinking in orde-r to face the Union social life, you'd be llett.ilr ()ff staying in and studying. SCORPIO~ Yollr sex and love life have been basically non-existent. Cil~wing ice and watchin~ sexual movies are just no substitute. Be opem minded and flirtateous and your tensions will shortly be releiased. SAGITTARIUS: The ti1ne has come for a period of celibacy. Your hormones are f'()rcing you to compromise: yourself. You could have sootrlething spedal in the near future, so don't give up on your dreams. CAlfRICORN: You better get your honnoncs under control. B ... ca-reful of drinking and fraternity parties. A dangerous figure has Sj)tmng into your life. A(liUARIUS: lf you are finding yourself feeling vulnerable, do not wonry! Your potential partner feels as nervous as you do. Now is the time to take risks -- they will all pay off. PISCE'S:. This is not the time to commit to a relationship. Allow :YOunelf sexual freedom, being careful not to hurt anyone along the w~y. Do not pay so much ~are lo how others may perceive ymL A~JIES: You have been very busy these <:lays. lt is time to let your hair down and go wild ·~de> something or someone you have always wanted to. TAURUS: You have outworn your welcome at certain places nn cam pus. Look in places where you would not expect to find rolTI:ancc;:. This term you will be more successful academically than SOcd.ally. GENii\ I: lf involved in a long distance relationship, cxpccnhis to be a rocky month. If involved with someone on campus, give each othe-r needed space. H suffering from an unsuccessful Jove life, expe-ct no change. CANCER: After a slow past few months, your time has come for H)lllance. Your academic life is .on an upclimb, your social life soon til bllow. You will meet a p<JWerful partner of passion. LEO: The effec~s of over.indulging yourself in drinking and sex will pr()vte detrimental to your health. Try to maintain a healthy balance be.otW.een acad¢mic.s and yo'llr busy social calendar, .. W~G{): You ltave done many self-destructive things in the past \ N~~ i:S t® tllhe to ~end pa:st m~takes and acknowedge those who cat\e'~oouty<Ju. Now ts NOi the trme to sleaze around! Parenthood Black Rain :Black Rain Sea of Love Cheetah and Uncle Buck Friends Lockup Turner & Hooch The Package The Abyss When Harry Met Uncle Buck Sally When Harry Met The Package Sally Call Theaters for Show Times. MOVIES THIS WEEK JA:\lES REU \If I K-9 Pl. II;: \\lll'\1knhlfi\I,Jtkln!H \'1!1~1.\ll.l Dangerous Liaisons Fri.-Sun. 7r 9:30, 12 Wed., Oct. 4, 7, 9, 11

Page 14 By KIM CAREY \Sea of Love\ ,is the type of movie that keeps yo:u on the edge of your seilt for two hours. J,t can be called a \thriller\ in its :purest form. The movie begins with a series of three murders that seem to be related. All three men were found nak:ed on their beds with a single glinshot to their head. The onLy evidence was the killer's fingerprints left at the crime scene and a few lipstick stained cigarette butts. A special Nevt York City task force is sent Ollt :to find the murderer. Frank~ a lonely, heavy-drinking twenty-year police veteran played by AI ·w. • omens Group Organizational Meeting 7:30 Tonight CC205 AI/ Women Welcome NATIONAL COLLEGE POET'RY CONTEST open to all college & university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. Cash prizes will be awarded to top five poems. Deadline: October 31. For further information send stamped envelope to: INTERNATIONAL PUBLICATIONS PO Box 44044-L, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (or talk to Arts Editor about more info) CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 AR'fS & ENTERTAINMENT ea Pacino and his partner Sherman, plltyed by John Goodman, are ·{)aired to rind the killer. After a bit of digging they discovered that all three men had placed a personal ad in an exclusive singles magazine. Frank and Sllerman quickly place an ad in the magazine so they can find tile killer. The three m~Le victims had placed love poems in their ads instead <Jf personal descriptions, thereby indicating that the killer W()uld respond to love poems. Frd used an old love poem written by his mother as a l11re. Frank and Sherman proceeded to date all the women wllo responded to their ads, knowi11g one of them was a killer. The pair got all the women's fing.erprints except for one. When Helen, played by Ellen Barkin; meets Frank, she tells him irilmediately that she does not \Sea of Love\ is the type of movie tbat keeps you on the edge .of your seat for two hours. It can be called a \thriller\ in its purest ·form.. . like him because she feels no \animal attraction.\ She leaves the scene without leaving her fingerprints. Later that week, Helen and ·Frank meet unexpectedly at a supermarket. Helen seems to be attracted to ove Frank now. The two spend the night .together in what proves to be one of the steamiest sex scenes on screen in a long time. The lab results of the fingerprints all come back negative. Sherman warns Frank that Helen could be the killer~ but Frank simply shrugs off . the comments because ll.e has really fallen for Helen. As the movie progresses more evidence points . to Helen. At night Frartk an:d Helen are romantically involved, while during the day he is tracking her wondering if she is the killer. The tension builds steadily until the killer is reve!iled. The movie's ending leaves you feeling exhausted because you are so involved in the characters' lives. This is Pacino's best acting since \The Godfather,\ and Barkin's character, the sexy Helen, is quite a contrast from the naive district attorney she played in the \Big Easy.\ The only drawback to this 'film is that the writers should have broadened the characters even more. For example,. Ftank's relationship with his ex~wife and with Shennan could 'have been expanded a. bit more. Don't get me wrong, however, \S'ea of Love'' is worth seeing if you are in the mood for an action-packed, erotic thriller with some excellent acting. ''I don't want a lot of hype. I just want something I catl count on.,., Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than you think You can expect low long distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, dear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent choice-AT& I. If youtllike to know more about our products or services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. ATs.T The right choice. . . ' . . ,. . . . . .

Page 14 By KIM CAREY \Sea of Love\ is the type of movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat for two hours. It can be called a \thriller·· in its purest fonn. The movie begins with a series of three murders that seem t() be related. All three men were found naked on their beds with a single gunshot to their head. The only evidence was the killer's fingerprints left at the crime scene and a few lipstick stained cigarette butts. A special New York City task force is sent out to find tile murderer. Frank, a lonely, heavy-drinking twenty-year police veteran played by AI Women's Group Org,anizational Meeting 7:30 Tonight CC205 All Women Welcome NATIONAL COLLEGE POETRY CONTEST open to all college & university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. Cash prizes will be awarded to top five poems. Deadline: October 31. For further information send stamped envelope to: INTERNATIONAL PUBliCATIONS PO Box 44044-L, Los Angeles, CA 90044 (or talk to Arts Editor about more info) CONCORDIENSJS, September 28, 1989 _, __ , ___________________________________ _ ARrfS & ENTERTAINMENT Pac ino and his partner Sherman, played by John Goodman, are paired to find the killer. After a bit of digging they discovered that all three men had placed a personal ad iN an exclusive singles magaziae. Frank and Sherman quickly place an ad in the magazine so they can find the killer. The three male victims had placed love poems in their ads instead of personal descriptions, thereby indicating that the killer wo11ld respond to love poems. Frank used an old love poem written by his mother as a lure. Frank and Sherman proceeded to date aH the women who responded to their ads, knowing one of them was a killer. The pair got all the women's fingerprints except for one. When Helen, played by Ellen Barkin, meets Frank, she tells him immediately that she does not \Sea of Love\ is the type of movie that keeps you on the edge of your seat for two hours. It can be called a \thriller\ in its purest form. like him because she feels no \animal attraction.\ She leaves the scene without leaving her fingerprints. Later that week, Helen and Frank meet unexpectedly at a supermarket. Helen seems to be attracted to ove Frank now. The two spend the night together in what proves to be one of the steamiest sex scenes on screen in a long time. The lab results of the fingerprints all come back negative. Sherman warns Frank that Helen could be the killer, but Frank simply shrugs off the comments because he has really fallen for Helen. As the movie progresses more evidence points to Helen. At night Frank and Helen are romantically involved, while during the day he is tracking her wondering if she is the killer. The tension builds steadily until the killer is revealed. The movie's ending leaves you feeling ex.hausted because you are so involved iN the characters' lives. This is Pacino 's best acting since \The Godfatlur,\ and Barkin's character, the sexy Helen, is quite a C:()ntrast from tfle naive district attorney she played in the \Big Easy.\ The only drawback to this film is that the writers should have broadenecl. the characters even more. For example, Frank's relationship with his ex-wife and with Sherman could have been ex.panded a bit more. Don't get me wrong, however, \Sea of Love\ is worth seeing if you are in the mood for an action-packed, erotic thriller with some excellent acting. ' ' ., • ' '•, ,\' • 'f ' :: ' ' o : ,' • ' ' ' - ',' ' < • • • I \ • • • - '< ', • ''I don't want a lot of hype. I just want something I can count onG'' Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but vvhat you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than vou think. You can expect low long distance rates, }±-hour operator assistance; dear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that vinuallv all of vour calls will go thro'ugh the first time. That's the genius< lf the AT&T \X(JrlJvvide Intelligent ;\let work When it\ time to clmose, forget the gimmicks and makL: the intdligent ch< )ice -AT&T If vou<J like to know more ahout c mr products or :-,l'l'\ IL'L~:--. like lmematiullc.tl Calling and the AT&T Card, call u~ at I ~00 222-0:~00 AT&T The right choice.

CONC(JRDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 ......... 1\TTENTION STUDENTS- Homecoming Weekend '89 Dutch Hollow Restaurant Presents DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT October 7, 1989 Sign Up ~arty: M,enu consists of: .Prlme Rib • Chicken Plccata Stuffed· Sol:e • Seafood · N,ewburg Our way. Pa~e 15 ~ . . T·~gethe:r --For.A ' ' - ._; . . . ~-. - ' - . ' ·.: ,\ . . . : - . ' ___...,._ ........... · · ••'·Safe -··:_ . You can save literally days of work between now and graduation. Shnply by using an HP calculator. Th keep~ you from endlessly retraCing your steps, ours have built- in shortcuts. Such as the unique HP Solve function for creating your own form- ula&. Menus, labels and - prompts. Program libraries. Algebraic or RPN models. ©.1989 Hewlett-Packard Company PG12905 Better algorithms and chip design help you finish much faster and more accurately than their way. So, whether you're in engineering, busi- ness, finance, life or social · sciences, we've got the best calculator for you. For as little as $49.95. Check it out at your campus bookstore or HP retailer. There is a better W8:Y. Ffi0W H_ EWL_ E_ T_ T ~~ PACKAR.O -..... CadtpQ.s, ........ ._.... '' .,,·. .-· . : . . ... . . : . ~ .· . . . va.·····_··c· ·-:_t· .• ,· ...... · ·· · .r.· ·. • . . t 'ont of 5 ftlmal~~ is . · sexl.ially. assaubeP. by . age 18.. .. . . . .. \ ' '\\ .-. -- '• . ·_ .... _ ·. ·Every six .minutes a .rap~ i~. conu~Iit~ed-. in • the United States .. .. . . . . . ··Fact: . 1 outofevery .. lO· .... \'\\\'\''' -~=-- is reported. Fact: The Schenectady Police are hunting for six different rapists ·on '---1 · the Union side of State Street Fact: Schenectady has fue s.e:c·ond high~st number .of reported rapes in a second class . _City .. Fact: . It can happen to you. ·take the necessary · preoautio1ts:

CONCORDJENSIS, September 28, 1989 -ATTENTION STUDENTS- Homecoming Weekend '89 Dutch Hollow Restaurant Presents DUTCHMAN'S NIGHT October 7, 1989 Sign Up Early: Menu consists of: Prime Rib • Ch,;ic!ken Piccata Newbu:rg Stuffed Sole • Seafood You can save literally days of work between now and graduation. Simply by using an HP calculator. To keep. you from endlessly retracing your steps, ours have built- in shortcuts. Such as the unique HP Solve function for creating your own form- ulas. Menus, labels and - prompts. Program libraries. Algebraic or RPN models. © 1989 Hewlett-Packard Company PG1290fi Better algorithms and chip design help you finish much faster and more accurately than their way. So, whether you're in engineering, busi- ness, finance, life or social sciences, we've got the best calculator for you. For as little as $49.95. Check it out at your campus bookstore or HP retailer. Our way. There is a better way. F6,=tl HEWLETT ~~ PACKARO Page 15 Together For A Safe Campus Fact: 1 out of 5 females is sexually assaulted, by . age 18. ·Fact: Every six minutes a rape is committed in the United States. Fact: 1 out of every 1 0 rapes is reported. Fact: The Schenectady Police are hunting for six different rapists on the Union side of State Street. Fact: Schenectady has the second highest number of reported rapes in a second class city. Fact: It can happen to you. Take the necessary precautions.

Page 16 CLUB NEll'S NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Night Sup.per, October 3rd - All Union students are invited to use meal · card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC205 and Join other members of Newman for s u.pper and an informal discussion with Professor Joseph Board of the Political Science Department who will speak on \Doubters Believers, and Bigots or The Unex.amined Life Revisited.\ Folk Group - All . singers · and musicians interested in being part of the music . ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. Eucharistic Ministers and Lectors - Any Union student who wishes to become a Eucharist Minister or a Lector please contact Sr. Joan (370- 60&7) or at CC404B. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Pre-school Kindergar- ten, After School Play Program, Library and tutoring· Math and reading on a one to one. Please contact Sheila Hurniston 372-9231. The-aay;1esb~n-a~d-a~ Sexual support group is beginning its regular meetings. If interested, send your mime and phone number to the support group. Student Activities Office, 4th Floor CC. Someone will call you with the meeting time and location. All locations and meetings are kept confidential. CLASSIFIEDS -~- STUDENT EMPLOYMENT - OFF CAMPUS WoR.o-\Pifocisson:s-: Editing, typing/word process- ing and proofreading reports and other clerical duties. Word processing experience preferred but will train qualified person. Typing speed of 50wpm required. Hours are flexible. DATA ENTRY CLERK Audit time/expense reports and input financial entries and source docume11ts into computer. Must have ability to input a minimum of 10,000 keystrokes per hour (keypd and text). Hours flexible. Contact· Dunn Geoscience Corp. @ 458-1313, 12 Metro Park Road, Albany, N.Y; 12205. sT1JDEN-1f-sirLES--RE~ PRESENTATIA VE f<>r inn<>vati ve · T-shirt and casual clothing manufacturer and distributor. Work for yourself - make your own hours - earn college expenses - sales incentives - free trips - dis- counts - personalized designs for your college or create yollr own. Only a limited number ()f CONCQRDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS positions available. Call or write immediately for mol'e info. This opportunity is offered only to a limited number of students depending on size of coll~ge. DYE- MENSIONS UNLIMITED. Corporate offices: 27 Indian Drive, Claredon Hills, IL 60514, 312-920-9797. Manufacturing & Warehouse: 1908 N. Linview #15 ' . ' Urbana, IL. 61801, 217-337- 6442. PART- TIME MAINTEN- ANCE POSITION, 1 0 hours/wk. Includes cleaning interior of Church, setting up chairs & tables for programs, putting out trash for weekly collection, and sweeping walkway entrances. $4.00/hr., with possible raise to $5.25/hr. Jan. 1, 1990. If interested, please call Fr. James Clarke, St. Andrew's Church, Scotia, 3374-8391. JOANN'S HALLMARK SHOP - 356-5627 from 5 to 9, at 2666 Hamburg St., Rotterdam. Person to work nights 3 to 9. Counter work, retailing must be 18 yrs. of age. BLUE PRINT READER. Position available for someone with skills in l>lue print reading and take off work - Hours 8AM to 4:30PM. Contact Rollie Keith. Salary negotiable. Phone 518-783- 7411. SALES POSITION intimate apparel & adult novel items. For further info. Please write Jordan Fox, Fox & Co., P.O.B. 779, Douglaston, N.Y. 11362'\9991. Anyone Interested in , WOMEN'S LACROSSE this Spring there will be a meeting MOnday, October 2 at 7:00 p.m. in the Alumni ,Gym T'his We,ek at the College Center: 9/28-10/4 . . Thursday, 9/28 Monday, 10/2 Promotional Day for Homecoming Weekend. Senior Pictures Outside, 9-4 · CC4l0, 1-6 pm Minerva Hour: Speaker \Dick Adler\ Fareign Film Series Auditorium, 11-12 noon CC406 7:30-lOpm Crime Prevention Program Dan Welch- Sweater Sale Auditorium, 7-9 Outside 9-4 Women's Group Meeting CC205, 7:30-9 Vendor-Cotton Clothing Outside, 105 Friday, 9129 Jr. Representative Electipns 10-4 . Proctors-HMS Pinafore, 8 pm {tickets at information booth) Friday, 9/29 - Sunday, 1()}1 Film: \Dangerous Liaisons\ Auditoriulli, 7, 9, U pm . Tuesday, 10/3 Senior Pictures CC410 10-7 Counselors on Campus: Stt.Jdent Panel · Auditorium 2:15-3:15 Fa~mlty Panel . Auditorium 4:45-5:45 pm . EaJ:!,ng disorders meeting . CC409/410 7:15-10:00 pm Dan Welch - Sweater Sale Outside9-4 Wednesday, 10/4 Senior Pictures CC410 10-7 pm Meditation Study - CC302 5-6:30 pm Film \K-9: . Auditorium 7, 9, 11 pm Jewelry Sale - Outside 10-5 pm

CONCORDIENSIS~ September 28, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS CIASSIFIEDS VfiN1fton~---~~-~-~-~ · Students and Clubs to join the '89-'90 Student Travel Services', Sales TeanL Earn CASH and/or FREE -Winter and Spring Break vacations, Travel with the best to ow; exciting ski and sun destinations. For more ~onnation call 1-800- 64'8-4875. AS A CAMPUS REPRE- SENTATIVE you will be · responsible for placing advertising materials on • bulletin boards and working on marketing programs for clients · s~ch as American Express, · IBM; Ford and Campus . recr11iters. Part-time work . choose your own hours. No · sales. Call or write for more info to: American Passage ', Network, 6211 W. Howard St., Chicao, :a 60648. 1-800-221- · 5942. TRAVEL SALES - sell spring break package tours to JAMAICA and . MARGARITA ISLAND. Earn free travel and extra cash. Great Sales experience and flexible hours. Phone 1-800- 426-7710. LARGE COLLEGE SIZE REFRIGERATOR stands 3 feet tall. Separate ice chest. W oodtone exterior. Great condition. Call Brain 374- 2939. · ~eekly Crossword \HALLS OF IVY\. ACROSS 1 to liege ~ead -s :colfege near A:lbanv, NY 14 10 Festive oc~asion, 14 Box for keeping pi11s t6 n a difficult situation:· witlt ''up the'' :16 Long narrative poem n !talian mountain 18 fragran' oil 19 City in Alaska '211- College in New Brunswick, NJ 22 \Come_-.-\: SMU By Gerry Frey invite t ~:-i-!--+--+-- 24 Participated at the dining hall 25 Biologieal classification 26 Extra tire 29 One ol LBJ's dogs 30 Is ahead of the pack 34 __ bucks: In !lie money · 35 Corp .Exec. 36 Tone deafness 37 She's \Sweet as aiJple cida\ 38 Follows ''HYPD\: Brr 40 Follows \CAV\: Roe 41 Patty's alias 43 Tooth holder 44 College near Olean, NY · • (nickname) 45 Cum laude eg. .~ \The Sweetheart a! _maChi\ .of? Univ. of Miami team ' nickname 48 Lariat (var.) . ..so famous Bruin 51 SR(J participant 54- College in .Dublin 58 Possess' 59 Put the top back on 61 Set adrift 62 Soviet mountain range 63 Pimenlo holder 64 Stench 65 Wilt Chamberlain, eg 66 Break off 67 Cub scout groups DOWN 1 Bambi 2 Ides of March words :! !.lad's sister 4 College near The Falls 5 Frighten 6 The BMTs, INDs and 7 Follows \STR\: lh oroughlare 8 Cleaner 9 !.:olleile in Ohio 1 U College near Batavia, NY 11 \.. Wit~hes curse 12 City in Peru 13 \Top Guns\ 21 Juin at the Sorbonne 23 College in Oklahoma 25 ':allege in Athens, Ga. ~ ;allege In Northhampton, Ma. 27 Tijuana Peter 28 Encore 29. Half a .bray jl ·NegatiVely charged • particle -3-2 Ms. Chambers ol Cheers 33 Ubangi women 35 Half a dance 36 Goal 38 Exhausted 39 Police ID Photo 42 College high above Cayuga's waters ~ College in NYC: Columbia affiliate 46 \Kaleidoscope\: Author R Dernier _: latest fashion 49 Aviation prelixes 50 Direct 51 Closed 52 Scarlet's place 53 Grandparental 54 Follows \DIREC\ and \NARRA\ 55 Understanding words 56 Adolescent 57 Natters ·oo Ms. Ullmann ©1989 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved ROOMS FOR RENT: -:1 double room and 1 single room available. -Females only! - $250/month per person including utilities (except telephone) - 5 blocks from campus .(behind Ellis H()sp.) -. New home, 1368 Belmont. -Kitchen, 2 baths, laundry, living room, family room and deck in backyard. -For more info drop name, box # and phone # in box 85. PERSONALS 301Seward- Welcome back!! Get psyched for a great year and alot of work. Sue&Kaen: I'm sorry for being such a crab .•. I'm coming out of my shelH! I'll see you guys at the beach. Dina Friedmonster: See ... someone is thinking of you! Love your Big Sis- Dina Beth W, Congratulations on the LSAT's. Sorry about the car. Love, Kim D.K.- Your face may be in Italy, But the memories remain. A. CRIFC Slow-Mo: Get psyched because I am! Europe here we come! · Love, Lisa Super. of the World- Too bad we won't be here for Curt's return! Love, Bookkeeper Dutch Hollow Restaurant --NOW FEATURING- Specialties: •CAPPUCCINO• •ESPRESSO• Italian Pastries for Your Extra Enjoymen.t SPECIAL LOW PRICES Page 17 Mami -Knock! I'm so glad you're here this term! I Love You! - Wilson Christy- Where are we going? Luigis? The Demon from Bruege B ... Sybi! behave yourself. Liz a R. Reed, My love - When will we by chance meet? Louise- You're the best roomie- I Luv ya! Hail Queen Maggie! Monkey & Beth - I Love You Guys! Leigh. Mami Mami Congratulations on your win. Jer, Du bekomst aile dieFrguen! Und nette Rader. MZ L.T.- It's been a great three weeks -I hope there are more to come. J.S. To Everyone that helped me through my dreaded oral report. TIIANKS. Love, Amy Schack D.R. You are awesome. Did you. wear your new purchase yet? If we stay away from THAT FRAT, We might stay SANE! A.S. Catch all of the excitement of Union College Football on WRUC 89.7. Tune in on Saturday· for \Countdown to Touchdown\ at 1 :00 and kick off at 1:30 as Albany visits Union. You're on the right track Kevin Chris- Want to make a phone call? Anyone wishing to place personals, please go to the information booth. They cost .50 cents each. Becka- We miss you tons at 301, don't have too much fun!!!

Page 18 CONCOBDIENSIS, September ~8, 1989 OJuncnrbiensis Women's X-Country Debuts By SANDRA ANSELMENT This past weekend, the women's cross coyntry team raced its first meet of the season. On Saturday the women travelled to Williams College to face a cold, rainy, and mud-covered course. The women, however, pmved their past weeks of training to be very productive and all ran a very strong race. Lynne Erdman, apost~gradllatc who is running her first season of cross-country ever. finished first for Union with a time of 21:11, proving to be \the machine\ of the team. Sandy Anselment finished second for Union with a time of 21:57. Denise McMillan, showing that she worked hara this summer and is ready for the season, finished in a strong time of 23:22. J en Regan, returning for her final season of cross-country, finished next for Union in 24:04. Jen Robbins, one of three new freshmen on the team this year, proved to be a valuable asset to Lbe team finishing fifth for the squad in 24:15 .. Lauren Karp, a junior who decided to \try her stuff .. at x-country this year, had an excellent \first race\ time of 25:00. Sue Lyon, a returning junior, ran an outstanding race fini§hing in 27:22, improving her time .a good amount over that of last year. Due to Sue's terrific performance, she was awarded the honor of \Runner of the Week.\ Congratulations to Sue! Teresa Sibcni, a junior and also a newcomer to the team, finished her first r~ce with a great time of 29:28. Ov.erall, the team finished 9th out of 21 teams. Next week the team will go up against Hamilton here on the new home course. Race time is 11 a;m. and covers most parts of the campus. So, roll out of bed on Saturday and come cheer the team em! For anyone still interested in running cross-country, physicals are being given at Achilles Rink on Sunday, October 1. The men are at 6:40 p.m. and women at 7:00 p.m. For more information, call Dave Herrington at X6547. Men's Soccer Looking For First Win By RON BIRNBAUM Although the Union Men's Varsity soccer squad slill has high hopes of seeing sunlight, an overcast opening record of 0-4 has put a damper on its original hope of attaining a .500 record by the end ·Of the season. For their opening game, a 5-0 loss, the Dutchmen trave lied to Cortland, returned back to the homefront for its next two bouts against Skidmore (1-0) and Hamilton (2-l),and played SUNY Binghamton (4-0) last Saturday at Binghamton. Cortland, which is ranked among the top ten soccer schools in the state, was simply excellent, and Union wasn't up for the game. Against Skidmote, the Dutchmen were much more determined. Although they had more control of the game and had a plethora of opportunities to score, they couldn't seem to put the ball in the net. On a fast break with 2 1/2 minutes left, Skidmore scored the only goal to clinch the win. In the first few minutes of the game against Hamilton this past Thursday, things were looking up for the Dutch hooters. After a.n early Hamilton corner kick was saved by sophomore goalie Paul Viviano, the ball was worked upfield to sophomore midfielder Adam Epstein. Epstein crossed to freshman forward Dave Romeo who successfully found the net with only 1:57 elapsed i11 the first half giving Union an early 1-0 lead and its first goal of the season. After an unsuccessful scoring attempt by Hamilton junior forward Jamie Perry, midfielders Epstein and Brett Miller each attempted shots at the Hamilton goaL But midway thr:ough the first half, Hamilton sophomore halfback Mark Donohue scored to tie up the game 1-l. Despite goal attempts by Epstein, junior Brian Desmarais, sophomore Jeff Gower, junior midfielder Rob Kaulbach, and freshman forward Dan Wilmot, the Dutchmen could not regain the lead. The ball fluctuated back and forth for the rest of the first half, and with half a minute left, Sollinger attempted to fool in and Gower attempted to head in a goal, both to no avail, and the score remained tied. Senior co-captain Mark Nadeau and freshman forward Eric Cressman were injured during the first half. The other co~captain, senior Mike Kijak, has been out all season. Hamilton had the breaks and the momentum with them going into the . second half. Within the first five minutes, Union was called on an obstruction, committed a foul, and Hamilton was awarded a corner kick. After a cheerless interchange with neither side taking any real shots, Hamilton's number 19, forward Stephan Schlagenhauff, took two shots which were deflected by Union's defense midway through the second half. But with the help of forward Chiis Fauci, Schlagenhauff was able to sink the ball with 23 minutes remaining on the clock, putting Hamilton up 2- 1. Union did not take many shots, and Hamilton goalie Tom Bacon finished the day with only three saves. while Union's Viviano made seven. From a spectator's point of view, it may have been considered an average game; but the coaches and players both agreed that much needed improvement. According to Head Coach Bob Magee. the team lacked on defense and didn't work the ball upfield welL The midfielders tried to come up and strike too oflen instead of playing back on defense, and the sstrikers elaborated too much on their chances to score instead of taking more shots. According to Romeo, \We have to work the ball more and make cleaner passes. We're trying to become more of an offensive team,\ In addition, this is a very young team, comprised of about half freshmen and only three seniors, and the fact that two of them were injured didn't help . Playing Binghamton, ranked fourth in the state, in cold, rainy weather and on only two days' rest was also difficult. Union played well in the first half as Binghamton only scored once on a penalty kick. In the second half Binghamton scored again and was held off for the most part until it was able to put in two fast goals at the end for a 4-0 final score. Co- captain Mark Nadeau was still out injured from the home game vs. Hamilton, Hopefully, things will come together by the end of the season. The team is now concentrating on getting a .solid line-up and deciding. upon whether to use a 4-3 or 4-2-2 formation, based on whether it plans to emphasize forwards or midfielders. The next game will be played this upcoming Monday at SUNY Albany~ It's only a fifteen minute drive by car, so everyone is expected to be there to root on their comrades. ERRATUM Brian Faria's name was incorrectly stated · as Brian Paris in last week's football article. The score of last year's Rochester- Union football game was also incorrect. It should have read 38~3, not 28-3. Vladimar Telemaque caught the winning touchdown to beat St. Lawrence three weeks ago. Qb; sothewh~re · .. · . ·.. . ...... · · . • . ·. . &Jm,i$ $ •b.rlgl1t~< . · Thf) ba~cHspl~~,!fS~:tneW}l~~· . !JQ~Wh¢re,.. . ~ll~pt. · ·· But a ~gi(( no~.·s~c.k; the<baseball wor;td~o 9n~1a:te; Al!g~~t day,; .· · · · At1.d just eight <fays i\\Wrlt Jimk aglilil. as a.bero p!!Ssed :away; ' ' - . '· ,- ' ' . ,, . ' -· ':-. Note: , . . . · .. ·· . . .. > . . .·· ·.. . . . The title of thi~:roell): W~$ chosen op Sunday,. Septemb~r 17; 1989. In the September Z5.1~$ue:_of SpottS I1lustr~ted~ an .:artide by Pet~r . GaJ)1rrl.ons cc;;i-ncid~t1y my favorite $port$· .wntet, appeared with the · same title. M~jl6e there is a fut1.1re at SI for me. . WRUC 89.7 FM proudly presents UNION vs. ALBANY STATE 1:00 Countdown to Touchdown 1 :30 KICKOFFI Tune in .fo the Dutchmen Sports Network all season long! Tucker•s Laond.ry IP..aTiurzu Special • CONVENIEN'T DROP OFF ON CAMPUS • FREE DEUVERYID DORM ROOMS Mario Cuomo expressing his support for Union athletics.

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, Septembt!.r 28, 1989' _________________ m_n_n_c_n_r6_i_en_s_i_s __ S_P_O_R_.T_S ______________ ~~ Women's X-Country Debuts By SANDRA ANSELMENT This past weekend, the women's cross country team raced its first meet of the season. On Saturday the women travelled to Williams College to face a cold, rainy, and mud-covered course. The women, however, proved their past weeks of training to be very productive and all ran a very strong race. Lynne Erdman, a post-graduate who is running her first season of cross-country ever, finished first for Union with a time of 21: 11, proving to be \the machine\ of the team. Sandy Anselmcnt finished second for Union with a time of 21:57. Denise McMillan, showing that she worked hard this summer and is ready for the season, finished in a strong time of 23:22. Jen Regan, returning for her final season of cross-country, finished next for Union in 24:04. Jen Robbins, one of three new freshmen on the team th;s year, proved to be a valuable asset to the team finishing fifth for the squad in 24:15. Laurea Karp, a junior who decided to \try her stuff' at x-country this year, had an excellent \first race\ time of 25:00. Sue Lyon, a returning junior, ran an outstanding race finishing in 27:22, improving her time a good amount over that of last year. Due to Sue's terrific performance, she was awarded the hoHor of \Runner of the W cek.\ Congmllulatimls to Sue! Teresa Sibc11i, ajun.ior and also a newcomer to the team, finished her first race with a great time of 29:28. Overall, the team finished 9lh out of 21 teams. Next week Lhc team will go up against Hamilton here 011 the new home course. Race time is 11 a.m. and covers most parts of the campus_ So, roH out of bed on Saturday and come cheer the team on! For anyone still interested in running cross-country, physicals are being given at Achilles Rink on Sunday, October 1. The men aJ:e at 6:40 p.m. and women at 7:00 p.m. For more information, call Dave Herrington at X6547. Men's Soccer Looking For First Win By RON RIRNBAUM Although the Union Men's Varsity soccer squad still has high hopes of seeing sunlight, an overcast opening record of 0-4 has put a damper on its original hope of atl.aining a .500 record by the end of the season. For their opening game, a 5-0 loss, the Dutchmen travelled to Cortland, returned back to the homefront for its next two bouts against Skidmore (1-0) and Hamilton (2-1), and played SUNY Binghamton (4-0) last Saturday at Binghamton. Cortland, which is ranked among the top ten soccer schools in the state, was simply excellent, and Union wasn't up for the game. Against Skidmore, the Dutchmen were much more determined. Although they had more control of the game and had a plethora of opportunities to score, they couldn't seem to put the ball in the net. On a fast break with 2 1/2 minutes left, Skidmore scored the only goal to clinch the win. In the first few minutes of the game against Hamilton this past Thursday, things were looking up for the Dutch hooters. After an early Hamilton corner kick was saved by sophomore goalie Paul Viviano, the ball was worked upficld to sophomore midfielder Adam Epstein. Epstein crossed to freshman forward Dave Romeo who successfully found the net with only I :57 elapsed in the first half giving Union an early 1-0 lead and its first goal of the season. After an unsuccessful ~coring attempt by Hamilton junior forward Jamie Perry, ·m idficlders Epstein and Brett Miller each attempted shots at the Hamilton goal. But midway through the first half, Hamilton sophomore halfback Mark Donohue scored to tie up the game 1-1. Despite goal attempts by Epstein, junior Brian Desmarais, sophomore Jeff Gower, junior midlielder Rob Kaulbach, and freshman forward Dan Wilmot, the Dutchmen could not regain the lead. The ball fluctuated back and forth for the rest of the first half, and with half a minute left, Sollinger attempted to foot in and Gower attempted to head in a goal, both to no avail, and the score remained tied. Senior co-captain Mark Nadeau and freshman forward Eric Cressman were injured during the first half. The other co-captain, senior Mike Kijak, has been out all season. Hamilton had the breaks and the momentum with them going into the second half. Within the first five minutes, Union was called on an obstruction, committed a foul, and Hamilton was awarded a corner kick. After a cheerless interchange with neither side taking any real shots, Hamilton's number 19, forward Stephan Schlagenhauff, took two shots which were deflected by Union's defense midway through the second half. But with the help of forward Chris Fauci, Schlagenhauf£ was able to sink the ball with 23 minutes remaining on the clock, putting Hamilton up 2- 1. Union did not take many shots, and Hamilton goalie Tom Bacon finished the day with only three saves, while Union's Viviano made seven. From a spectator's point of view, it may have been considered an average game, but the coaches and players both agreed that much needed improvement. According to Head Coach Bob Magee, the team lacked on defense and didn't work the ball upfield well. The midfielders tried to come up and strike too often instead of playing back on defense, and the sstrikers elaborated too much on their chances to score instead of taking more shots. According to Romeo, \We have to work the ball more and make cleaner passes. We're trying w become more of an offensive team.\ In addition, this is a very young team, comprised of about half freshmen and only three seniors, and the fact that two of them were injured did11't help. Playing Bingharnt()D, ranked fourth in the state, in cold, rainy weather and ()D only two days' rest was also difficult. Union played well in the first half as Binghamton only scored once on a penalty kick. In the second half Binghamton scored again and was held off for the most part until it was able to put in two fast goals at the end for a 4-0 final score. Co- captain Mark Nadeall was still out injured from the home game vs. Hamilton. Hopefully, things will come together by the end of the season. The team is now concentrating on getting a solid line-up and deciding upon whether to use a 4-3 or 4-2-2 formation, based on whether it plans to emphasize forwards or midfielders. The next game will be played this 11pcoming Monday at SUNY Albany. It's only a fifteen minute drive by car, so everyone is ex:flected to be there to root en their commdcs. ERRATUM Brian Faria's name was incorrectly stated as Brian Paris in last week's football article. The score of last year's Rocltester- Union football game was also incorrect. It should have read 38-3, not 28-3. Vlaclimar Telemaque caught the winning touchdown to beat St. Lawrence three weeks ago. For the Love of the Game by David Sa~'h.ar Thee outlook was brilliant for Major League :Baseball, on. opening day; Coming off tl:le heels of a brilliantOctober. when Kirk Gibson led L.A. Atl:d the boys ;Qf summer took the field, for their love of the game; 1Bu.t as the summer passed, my love was 1 los.t,. and my heart was ·rmed with shame. Apo.ril seemed so promising, a new comnrl.ssioner in command; · A. Renaissance schol;rr and a \Yalie••; he was \Commish;\ by popular de.rnancl A Bartlett Giametti, working at a job he loved to do, Even if he colilld not wear, his beloved scarlet and blue. As the summer progressed, some of our childhood heroes faded, Startling revelations surfaced, as their private1ives were invaded. An.d' th.en it came; the most startling story of them all, A story so great, it may preclude Charley Hustle's entrance to the HaJt · \And when (Pete Rose) bet baseball ..• \. The Dowd report swirled ;ft'bou.t. The end was near, a career gone Sour; a habit he could not putout. The Big Red :Machine, all those one hu!!.drW hlt seasons too; It !loesn't even matter that, he hit four tl!lousand one nine two. \Fnalld!\ cried the maddened thousands, and echo answered fraud; · Sut one unhappy look from Pete, and the au<tience was awed. They saw his face groW stem and cold, they saw his muscles strain, And they kneW that Rose would not be near the game he loved; again. Oh, somewhere in this favored land the sun is shining bright; The band is pl:aying somewhere, and somewhere hearts are light. But a tragic nate struck the baseball world, one late August day, A..ndjust eight days later it struck again, as a hero passed away. N0>te: The title of this poem was chosen on Sunday, September 17, 1989. In the September 25 issue of Sports [llustrated, an article by Peter G!l11llllons coincidently my favorite sp()rts writer, appeared with the sanne title. Maybe there is a future at SI for me. WRUC 89.7 FM proudly presents UNION YS. ALBANY STATE 1 :00 Countd·own to Touchdown 1 :30 KICKOFF! Tune in to the Dutchmen Sports Network all season long! Tack,zr•s Laundry ~a[J '])rg Cfeaning Special ® lilY Clean A Sweater, Get tile Next One FREE! IEir 24 HOUR SERVICE • CONVENIENT DROP OFF ON CAMPUS l<il' FREE DEL.J\i'ER Y TO OORMROOMS a\ \WE Bll..L HOME\ Mario Cuomo expressing his support for Union athletics. 'I l

CONC01l.DJENSIS 11 September 28, 1989 <!Lnncnr~itn.&ill SPORTS Lynn Hyde Leads Union Over Rochester By MARK ZIMMERMAN ·consecutive invitation to the assist. She was named an Sports Editor New York State Invitational, Academic all-American, as well This week's Athlete of the Lynn is currently second in . as to the second teams of the Week is junior field hockey Mid-Atlantic Region and all- player Lynn. Hyde. Lynn had· state teams. two first half goals in 'the Dutchmen's 2-1 victory over Rochester last week, helping Union break a three game non- . win streak. The team is . currently 3-2 ... 1 after going 17-1 last season, and capturing the ECAC championship. The team is looking for its fifth goals behind Mary Hayes. Last season she led the Dutchmen jn Lynn's efforts this season along with the other members of the Field Hockey team should produce another successful season for the Dutchmen. Congratulations to ~yon Hyde, this week's Athlete Qfthe Week. Field· Hockey Defeats Yell ow jackets By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY It was a dark and rainy night and Hurricane Hugo was. knocking at the door of Union College .. people were indoors, closing all their windows and waiting; nobody was outside .. If one walked by Frank Bailey field, however, what did one see? Union's ~termined field hockey team squaring off against tlie University of Rochester while it was a battle in itself for the one-hundred plus fans to weather Hugo's storm, the real challenge took place on the one-hundred yards of green astroturf. Union stung the Yellowjackets early, when Lynn Hyde scored on a penalty shot. The spectators were given a display of world class defense as the D11tcbmen thwarted every Rochester scoring opportunity. Goalie Jennifer Lyon squeaked through the frrst half with a shutout still intact. Lyon's great goaltending was not ignored by the Dutchman offense. They responded when Lynn Hyde rocketed her second goal of tbe game past the shocked Yellowjacket goalie with only a few ticks on tbe clock ·re~aining in the first half. At the start of the second half, Union came out of their hive ready to sting. Just as. the yellowjackets dominated the fixst half but came up sllort, Union moanted a second balf attack witlt no .goals to show for their efforts. In fact, the secondhalf appeared as if the two teams exchanged uniforms at halftime. Although Union dominated the second llalf, domination <lid not produce goals. Rochester scored the .()nly goal of the half as Jennifer Lyon could do nothing to stop the well-executed Rochester strategy~ After this single letdown the Dutchman defense tightened and the game ended2ml, In previous games Union defeated the Engineers of R.P .I. 2-1, with Mary Haye~ scoring both Dutchman goals. Hayes then scored her third goal of the season as Union ties Skidmore 1-1. The Dutchman then went on a two game skid as they lost l-0 to both Oswego and the Continentals of Hamilton. After the Rochester victory, Union defeated Wells college 22-0, with Carolyn Hardy and Patty Donaldson registering the goals. In her first game in goal, Allison Snyder recorded the shutout. Men's X-Country Braves The Weather By DOUG MARTOCCI The Williams Invitational, traditionally one of the hardest races run· during the Cross- Country season, lived up to its reputation for yet another year. Course changes, in addition to heavy rains, increased the difficulty of this already tough race and proved te be an early test of tbe men's team strengths and weaknesses. Modifications to the existing course added to the steep hills that were so difficult a year· ago. This ;,new\ setup challenged runners from the beginning, where an uphill reached from the start to the 1- l/2-mile mark. Coupled with a constant rainfall and the presence of 175-plus runners. this hill was transfonned into a giant mudslide which made footing treacherous and .added a different twist to the competition. Developed in the ~arty season, and proving to be tllis team's greatest strength, is the strong front running of Dirk Gunther, (:o-captain, Mike Martinez. and Jon Rosenfeld. This combinati.on led Union to its first dual meet victory one week ago against Oneonta and, once againp put the team in a very good scoring position. Dirk was the team's top finisher in a time of 28:49 ;0 which earned him a very respectable 38th place in the large field. Mike Martinez survived ail early race f..an to finish 53rd with a time of 29:20.0. Clcse behind was Jon Rosenfeld who finished 56th with a time of 29:23.0. A welcome surprise of .the day was the running of freshman Ed Dorsey. Finishing 108th in a time of 31:16.0, gained ,him- an important first i step in securing a position on the varsity squad. Rounding out Union's top finishers w~re co-captain Doug Martocci (115th), Rich Zernbek (I21st), and Ed \Phino\ Rothenberg (124tb). Rhino's performance was particularly impressive due to the fact that he fell four times in the mud. Overall, the team expressed a timidity to racing all-out on the downhills due to the rain and bad conditions. Regardless, the team placed strongly in a difficult field, finishing 11th eut of 18. This weekend, the men•s teain returns home for a tri-meet against Hamilton, Siena. and C.W. Post. The race begins at 11 a.m. Saturday and, with a little support, the men's team hopes to improve their · undefeated dual meet record. Note: Last week the ··men won their dual meet with a score of Union 24, Oneonta 35. The score was incorrectly stated in 1ast week's issue. By. ANDY BRAVER , With October in sight and l.he end of the baseball season just around the. corner, I thought it would be fitting t.o look back upon this past season and; reflect on some of the news making performances. So, in the tradition o'f David Letterman, I have created my own top ten. This week's category: \The Top Ten Memories of the 1989 Baseball Season.\ But before I go any further, I would like to dedicate this article to the memory of A. Bartlett Giamatti, the Commissioner of Baseball whose sudden death stunned the sports world earlier this month. He was a man who loved the game of baseball, and it will miss him dearly. Anyway, just to repeat this week's category from the home office in Schenectady, N.Y.: \The Top Ten Memories of the 1989 Baseball Season.\ #10: The Baltimore Orioles-This bunch of hapless hopefuls stunned the baseball world by winning before their 21st game this year. They also proved that the experts are.nothing of the sort after spending more than half of the season in first place or fighting to regain the top spot in the American league (L) East. Their series in Toronto this weekend will determine whether they will become the first team in league history to go from last to first place in successive seasons. #9: Willie Randolph-The former New York Yankee's Captain signed as a free agent with the Los Angeles Dodgers after the Yankees surprisingly gobbled. up the Dodger's second baseman last Thanksgiving Day. He has had a vintage Willie Randolph year, playing solid defense, coming through with the clutch hits, and providing great leadership. However the World Champions resemble nothing of the sort because their heart and soul of last year's team in strutting his stuff in Willie's old backyard. #8: Steve Sax-Though Willie's old backyard has been very good to this sparkplug, he has not been able to bring the Yankee team to life with his intensity. Sax has continued to dazzle at the plate while blossoming into a good second baseman. Both Randolph and Sax had great seasons. However, they both would have done their respective teams a service not leaving home and staying put in the frrst place. #7: Mark Langston and Frank Viola--The two best left-banders in the American league are now strutting their stuff in the National League after blockbuster deals sent Page 19 • I them packing. A lot of good it did both the Montreal Expos and New York Mets. They can start playing g()Jd next week. #6: Bo-·. That is really all that needs to be said. He proved that he is a great one by belting a borne run in the All- Star Oame and hitting 30 for the season. I hope the next hobby Bo picks up is the guitar so he can teach Bo Didd1ey a few things. #5: Kevin Mitchell and Will Clark-They are the best three- four punch in the game of baseball today. What a show they have put on this season holding the injury riddled San Francisco Giants together on their way to their second division title in three years. Clark really is Tile Natural; he is smooth, graceful, he is awesome. Mitchell has played this season as if on a mission. They should both get half of the MVP trophy. #4: Lonnie Smith-It's too bad he is playing for such a bad team. However, this Atlanta Brave has had such a great year that he has become its second best comeback story. Smith has overcome his drug problems, learned how to play left field with Gold Glove ability. and put up great numbers at the plate (he is third in the N.L. with a .317 average). What other surprises can a team ask for? :#3: Nolan Ryan-\Texas Heat\ is right; this guy only gets better with age, and his heat can still srnoke it. Over 5,000 strikeouts in a career is unbelievable. But just think how many fastballs it took to strike out all of those guys. Think of how many that arm has thrown in his career. How can he still be so good? One can only wonder in amazement. #2: Dave Dravecky-· This story is as happy as it is painful, but it's always incredible. Less than a year ago, a large malignant tumor was removed from the .pitching arm and shoulder of the San Francisco Giants' starter, and he was told that he would not be able to lift his arm above his head. In August, he made a successful return to the majors with a win in his first start. But in his second start, the bone in Dravecky's upper arm shattered. In less than a second, all of the hope and happiness that he felt was replaced with pain and fear of having 1.0 make another comeback. But after overcoming cancer, what is a broken arm? #1: Pete Rose-.Since he has been the topic of David Letterman's Top Ten so many times, I thought it only fitting to make this former betting, I mean baseball great, my numbet one. I BET you all knew that Rose would be at the top. ...

1 i ., ! CONCORDIENSIS, September 28, 1989 OLoncnr~ tens is- SPORTS Lynn Hyde Leads Union Over Rochester By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor This week's Athlete of the Week is junior field hockey player Lynn Hyde. Lynn had two first half goals in the Dutchmen's 2-1 victory over Rochester last week, helping Union break a thFee game non- win streak. The team is currently 3-2-1 after going 17-1 last season and capturing the ECAC championship. The team is looking for its fifth consecutive invitation to the New York State Invitational. Lynn is currently second in ... , ·~~ . ·~ goals behind Mary Hayes. Last season she led the Dutchmen in assist. She was named an Academic aU-American, as well as to the second teams of the Mid-Atlantic Region and all- state teams. Lynn's efforts this season along with the other members of the Field Hockey team should produce another successful season for the Dutchmen. Congratulations to Lynn Hyde, this week's Athlete of the Week. Field Hockey Defeats Yellowjackets By JOHN SCHACHNOVSKY It was a dark and rainy night and Hurricane Hugo was knocking at the door of Union College. people were indoors, closing all their windows and waiting; nobody was outside. If one walked by Frank Bailey field, however, what did one see? Union's determined field hockey team squaring off against the University of Rochester while it was a battle in itself for the one-hundred plus fans to weather Hugo's storm, the real challenge took place on the one-hundred yards of green astroturf. Union stung the Yellowjackets early, when Lynn Hyde scored on a penalty shot The spectators were given a display of world class defense as the Dutchmen thwarted every Rochester scoring opportunity. Goalie Jennifer Lyon squeaked through the first half with a shutout still intact. Lyon's great goaltending was not ignored by the Dutchman offense. They responded when Lynn Hyde rocketed her second goal of the game past the shocked Yellowjacket goalie with only a few ticks on the clock remaining in the first half. At the start of the second half, Union came out of their hive ready to sting. Just as the yellowjackets dominated the first half but came up short, Union mounted a second half attack with no goals to show for their efforts. In fact, the secondhalf appeared as if the two teams exchanged uniforms at halftime. Although Union dominated the second half, domination did not produce goals. Rochester scored the only goal of the half as Jennifer Lyon could do nothing to stop the well-executed Rochester strategy. After this single letdown the Dutchman defense tightened and the game ended2-1. In previous games Union defeated the Engineers of R.P .I. 2-1, with Mary Hayec scoring both Dutchman goals. Hayes then scored her third goal of the season as Union ties Skidmore 1-1. The Dutchman then went on a two game skid as they lost 1-0 to both Oswego and the Continentals of Hamilton. After the Rochester victory, Union defeated Wells college 22-0, with Carolyn Hardy and Patty Donaldson registering the goals. In her first game in goal, Allison Snyder recorded the shutout. Men's Braves X-Country The Weather By DOUG MARTOCCI The Williams Invitational, traditionally one of the hardest races run during the Cross- Country season, lived up to its reputation for yet another year. Course changes, in addition to heavy rains, increased the difficulty of this already tough race and proved to be an early test of the men's team strengths and weaknesses. Modifications to the existing course added to the steep hills that were so difficult a year ago. This \new\ setup challenged runners from the beginning, where an uphill reached from the start to the l- l/2-mile mark. Coupled with a constant rainfall and the presence of 175-plus runners, this hill was transformed into a giant mudslide which made footing treacherous and added a different twist to the competition. Developed in the early season, and proving Lo be this team's greatest strength, is the strong front running of Dirk Gunther, co-captain, Mike Martinez, and Jon Rosenfeld. This combination led Union to its first dual meet victory one week ago against Oneonta and, once again, put the team in a very good scoring position. Dirk was the team's top finisher in a time of 28:49.0 which earned him a very respectable 38th place in the large field. Mike Martinez survived an early race fall to finish 53rd with a time of 29:20.0. Close behind was Jon Rosenfeld who finished 56th with a time of 29:23.0. A welcome surprise of the day was the running of freshman Ed Dorsey. Finishing 108th in a time of 31:16.0, gained him an important fust step in securing a position on the varsity squad. Rounding out Union's top finishers were co-captain Doug Martocci (1151h), Rich Zcmbek (121st), and Ed \Phino\ Rothenberg (124th). Rhino's perfonnance was particularly impressive due to the fact that he fell four times in the mud. Overall, the team expressed a timidity to racing all-out on the downhills due to the rain and bad conditions. Regardle<>s, the team placed strongly in a difficult field, finishing 11th out of 18. This weekend, the men's team returns home for a tri -meet against Hamil ton, Siena, and C.W. Post. The race begins at 11 a.m. Saturday and, with a little support, the men's team hopes to improve their undefeated dual meet record. Note: Last week the men won their dual meet with a score of Union 24, Oneonta 35. The score was incorrectly stated in last week's issue. ou By ANDY BRAVER With October in sight and t11e end of the baseball season • just around the C(:)rner, I thought it would be fitting to I ook back upon this past season and. reflect on some of the news making performances. So, in the tradition (){ David Letterman, I have created my own top ten. This week's category: \The Top Ten Memories of the 1989 Baseball Season.\ But before I go any further, I would like to dedicate this aFticle to the memory of A. Bartlett Giamatti, the Commissioner of Baseball whose sudden death stunned the s:ports world earlier this month. He was a man who loved the game of baseball, and it will miss him dearly. Anyway, just to repeat this week's category from llle home ()ffice in Schenectady. N.Y.: \The Top Ten Memories of the 1989 Baseball Season.\ #10: The Baltimore Orioles-This bunch of liapless hopefuls stunned the b>aseball world by winning b-efore their 21st game this year. They also proved that the e.xperts are. nothing of the sort a:fter spending more than half of the season in first place or fEghting to regain the top spot in the American league (L) East. Their series in Toronto this weekend will determine whether they will become the first team in league history to g() from last to first place in su~ccssive seasons. #9: Willie Randolpll-The former New York Yankee's Captain signed as a free agent with the Los Angeles Dodgers after the Yankees surprisingly gobbled up the Dodger's second baseman last Thanksgiving J)ay. He has had a vintage Willie Randolph year, playing solid defense, coming through with the clutch hits, and providing great leadership. l-lowever the World Champions resemble nothing of the sort because their heart and soul of htst year's team in strutting his stuff in Willie's old backyard. #8: Steve Sax-Though Willie's old backyard has been very good to this sparkplug, he has not been able to bring the Yankee team to life with his i11tensity. Sax has continued to d~zzle at the plate while blossoming into a good second baseman. Both Randolph and Sax had great seasons. How ever, they both would have done their respective te.ams a service not leaving liome and staying put in the ftrst place. #7: Mark Langston and Frank Viola-The two best left-banders in the American le.ague are now strutting their stllff in the National League after blockbuster deals sent Page 19 • 1n them packing. A lot of good it did both tile Montreal Expos and New York Mets. They can start playing gold next week. #6: Bo-That is really all that needs to be said. He proved that he is a great one by belting a horne run in the All- Star Game and hitting 30 for the season. 1 hope the next hobby Bo picks up Is the guitar so h~ can teach Bo Diddlcy a few things. #5: Kevin M itchcll and Will Clark-They arc the best three- four punch in the game of baseball today. What a show they have ptit on this season holding the injury riddled San Francisco Giants together on their way to their second division title in three years. Clark really is The Natural: he is smooth, graceful, he is awesome. Milchell has played this season as if on a mission. They should both get half of the MVP trop,hy. #4: Lonnie Smith-It's too bad he is playi111g for such a bad team. However, this Atlanta Brave has had such a great year that he has b~omc its second best comeback story. Smith has overcome his drug problems, learned how to play left field with Gold Glove ability, and put up great numbers at the plate (he is third in the N .L. with a .317 average). What other surprises can a team ask for? #3: Nolan Ryan--\Texas Heat\ is right; this guy only gets better with age, and his heat can still smoke it. Over 5,000 strikeouts in a career is unbelievable. But just think how many fastballs it took to strike out all of those guys. Think of how many that arm has thrown in his career. How can he still be so good? One can only wonder in amazcmcnl. #2: Dave Drt.tvccky- This story is as happy as it is painful, but it's always incredible. Less than a year ago, a large ma1ignant tumor was removed from the pitching arm and shoulder of the San Francisco GianL-;' starter, and he was told that he would not be able to lift his arm above his head. In August, he made a successful return to the majors with a win in his first start. But in his second start, the bone in Dravecky's upper arm shattered. In less than a second, all of the hope and happiness that be felt was replaced with pain and fear of having to make another comeback. But after overcoming cancer, what is a broken arm? #1: Pete Rose-Since he has been the topic of David Letterman's Top Ten so many times, I thought it only fitting to make this former bcuing, I mean baseball great, my number one. I BET you all knew that Rose would be at the top. .. :- . •.; ...

:g' ~ c: ~ jjj ·~ ttl ~ 1i' ~ o.. A -\~o:C! ~- .: ~--. -~.--_ ' ·.::> __ ,,_., >::.. .. 0 0 ..c: Q. Rebecca Smackey takes the ball down the field .agalnst Rochester. Union won 2·1 anel is now 3·2·1. The Dutchmen,. off to a quick 3·0 start, face .a stern test against SUNY Alban.Y. this Saturday. Rugby Looks For Second Win By JEFF GOOGEL The men's rugby team opened up their fall season with a disappointing 6-4 loss at the hands of SUNY Albany. After a scoreless first half, senior fullback Ken Laubacher scored the only try of the game for either team, as lte gave Union a 4-0 lead. Late in the second half, Union was penalized for playing the man without the ball, and also a high tackle. Albany converted on both penalty kicks to come from behind and steal the win from Union. The following week, Union traveled to Plattsburgh and evened up their early season record at 1-1 with a very impressiye 12-0 win. Eric Springer scored the first try of the game in the first half to give Union an early 4-0 lead. Later in the half, Brian Spring scored his first of two tries to take a commanding 8-0 lead. Spring's second try in the second half came from a line out, as he caught the ball and ran it in from ten meters out to cap off the scoring at 12-0. The difference in th·e Plattsburgh game was an impressive and powerful Serum. The size, strength and speed of the Union Serum enabled them to walk over Plattsbl!l',gh. This year's Serum is led b:y captain Andy Sobel and tile Three Terminators, Matt Tay,lor, Dave Austin, and Toby Overdorf. The strong Scrwn O']Jened up the game and allowed Union to put forth a diversified and well balanced attack. Line c:aptain Dan Gilbert and Rugby President Steve Neiditz put together a few great runs,. and Mo Kauff abused his opposing hooker by stealing over 5()~ of Plattsburgh's put- ins to ad.{J to the already potent Union attack. Captain Andy Sobel w~s very satisfied with the play ·Df the Serum and tbe play of tile team in general. \I was real pleased with the way the Scmtn pursued the ball. Every single person in the Serum played an incredible game. I know we have the strongest Serum in all of New York State, and I dare any other team to prove me different, Dammit!\' Uni()n wiJllook to improve it's record to 2-1 when third season coach Skip Aicox leads the confi!lent Union team in it's 'll.omeopener against Oneonta Dn Satwday at 1:00 p.m. ir1 what promises to be a great gBI11e. September 28, 1989 Dutchmen Put Damper On Hobart Homecoming By ANDREW SEEWALD Senior tailback Ryan Mason carried the ball 31 times for 187 yards, including 126 in the second balf, as the Dutchmen defeated Hobart 21-7 at Boswell Field in Geneva, N.Y. last Saturday. The victory moved Union to 3-0 on the season and was the eighth straight for the Dutchmen over the Statesmen. Last year at Frank Bailey Field, Unio11 also won by a score of 21-7. Hobart fell to 1-2 for the year. Statistically, the game was completely dominated by the Dutchmen in every aspect except on the scoreboard. Until Mason scored from one yard out in the closing minutes of the game, the Statesmen were within one touchdown of taking tbe lead. Union, coming off a 28-6 victory over the University of Rochester, came out red hot from tile start. Sophomore quarterback Brett Russ. who took over as the starter in last year's Hobart. game, engineered touchdown drives on Union's first two possessions of the game. The first drive began on the Union 49 and featured two fourth down conversions and roll-o11t passing by Russ, a new dimension in the Union attack. The march culminated . in a 7 yard roll-out pass to junior fullback Tom Lombardoni. After Scott Goodwin's extra point, the Dutchmen led 7 -0; · The Union defen-se then demon-strated the form it. has exhibited all se.ason when defensive end Greg Hallas sacked Hobart·quarte:J.ihack :Neal Pettinelli to force Jack MiLmoe to punt from his (\Od zo11e, a position he woLJld beoome accustomed to as the g-ame progressed. The Dutchmen quickly moved in f:rom excellent field po~ition, the Hobart 24, with a 5 yard TD pass from Russ t() fullback Kevin McLaughlin putting Union ahead 13-(), after the missed exl:t'a point. The remainder of the first half was characterized by missed opportunities. by l111ion to put the game o:ut of re:ach. Goodwin missed 3 field goals (2 in the first half), including one that hit the cr()ssbar and another that was blocked. Union would c:ontinue'- its pattern of missed ()pportum1ties until Mason's fourth qulll'ter score. Meanwhile, howe-ver, the defense proved up to the challenge of protecting a Slim lead. Free safety Tim Kem(lski had 2 interceptions, including one deep in Union territor)!, to lead a defense tbat allcwedonly 144 yards for the game_ In contrast, the ])u tchrnen amassed 399. t()tal yal'ds, including 291 on the gr<>und. In three ganies dtis season, Unio11 has allowed jmst 26 points:. Hobart's only score of tbe game came on an 80 yard drive which was capped by a picture- perfect ()ption pitch to tailback Andy Pemberton, wbo c!aslled In fmm 22 yards ouL Th-at made the score 13-7 with over 24 niin11tes remaining. At this point, Mason !Jecame the story, as he poundc:ed out one bdg gain after , a11other, punishirag the Hobart seoon~ after bursting through huge holes ()pened up b.Y the offellsive line. Mason av~raged over() yards per carry. Mas<>n's one yard toucl!down run was the punctuatioll mark on a 6 play, 4 7 yard drive consisting solely of Mason left, Mason right, Mas.on l.lP the middle, and another banged up Hobart defender coutsy of Maso11. Thi.s Saturday at Frank Bailey Field, Union will look to avenge last year's 28-:1.2 l<>ss at the hands of Albany State. Game time is 1:30. The Great Danes defeated Divisio11 II Springfield 28-14 last weekend and now .s:port a 2-1 record. Albany feattJtes an expl()sive running attack led by seni()r quarterback Pat Ryder and seru()r fullback Pete IPe<lro. That tandem combined f~:~r 259 yeards on the ground against Spri11g:field. Albany likes to run- the option. an offense tllat the D11tchmen saw quite a bit of agai11st Hobart. SPORTSWEEK TOO.AV J.V. Soccer at HVCC ........................................................................ 4:00 Monday, October 2 J.V. Football at Hamilton ................................................................... 4:00 Friday, September 29 Men's Soccer at Albany ......................................................................... 3.: 30 Tennis at Russefl Sage ................................................................... 3:30 Saturday, S~ptember 30 Football vs. Albany St.. ................................................................... 1:30 Field Hockey at Vassar ................................................................... 1 :0 0 Women's Soccer at Vassar .............................................................. 1 :00 Volleyball- Plattsburgh Invitational .............. , ........................... ; ......... 9:00 Cross Country vs. Hamilton ............................................................... 1 :00 Tuesda)l, October 3 Women's Soccer at Skidmore ................................. _ ........................ 3 :3& Field Hockey vs. Hartwick ....................................... _ ........................ 3 :30 J.V. Field Hockey vs. Hartwick .......................................................... 5 :00 Tennis vs .. Hartwick .•.•.... ~· .........•.........................•.. _. ............................. 3: :3 0 Volleyball vs. Saint R(>se ................................................................ ? :00

