Vol. CXVlll~ . No. 21 Secon.d ·Stud:ent S .... d·' d . u:s.pen. ei- _· For Flre Alar·m Violation For the second time in less than· a month, another student has been suspended by the College fot pulli!lg a false ftre alarm. The sus.p.ension followed an investigation, of an incident in Fox Dormitory last month which resulted in the evacuatio~ of the dormatory. On April 9, a student was caught pulling fire alarms in Fox and Davidso11 Domtitories. He cllose to b~ve his-- case reviewed by an administrative review board who subsequently suspended him. ,,.Students rnus:t understand the seriousness of these incidents,\ Dean. of Students Joseph L. Mammola noted. \It's not a joke to wake everyone up. False alarms jeopardize the safety of all residents. Should a re~ fire occur in the building many will conclude it's another · joke.\ The suspensions follow a number of similar earlier incidents in which the perpetrators were not identified. • liege 1877 Schenectady, May 4, 1989 Chemistry. Student Selected For Elite Suin.mer Program fellowship includes 1,11l ·; transportation fees as well as room and board, books, and student fees. Willey's instructor at the San Jose site will be Professor Alan King, Ph.D.,. University of London, England. Proposed Honor Code Reiected By Union Stude:nts - ~ . Chris will be taking three courses at the program. Two of ~ . them will· fulfil'l Union fJ) College credits and one of a: 5 .. thos(( two will count towards -~ · · his ACS degree requirements. ~- , An ACS degree is a degree ~ slightly higher than a c. · Bachelor's and requies the Sophomore chemistry major completion of a co1:1ple Chris. Willey has been C?hosen additional upper-level courses to atte,nd a fellowship program that are not required by the at San Jose State University, Bachelor's. By JAY FREELAND News .Editor Three weeks after this school · year ends, Union· College sophomore Chris Willey will ~ttend. a fellowship program in chemistry at San Jose State University. Sponsored by the Nuclear Chemistry and Technology division of the American Chemical Society, Chris was one of only twenty- four students nationwide to be selected for the program. The pr<>gram runs from J one 26 - August 4 and the Upon completion of the program, the participating students will be provided with information on graduate schools in chemistry as well as assistance in finding summer employment for the following year in National Laboratories, . universities or industry. Chris plans to attend graduate school to receive his Ph.D. and wiU specializ'e in forensic chemistry. Forensic chemistry is the analyzing of physical evidence from crimes and other such· incidents. Upon Continued on page 3 Personal Public Relations Gains Praise Throughout Capital District Area By JAY FREELAND . The recently published book, Personal Public Relations, by Autllor John A. Chestara, is receiving acclaim by Capital District newspapers and at the same time adds a new t~ist to . the process of selling an9 marketing. \I wish I'd had· a copy of PPR when I started my career,\ says John J. Finn, Ph.D., President, New Orleans Hospital Council.. \Better yet, · when I was in · college. II According to Polaris, a national magazine with a circulation of 8.000, the book . is \easv to out down and piclc up again but it's likely you won't put it down often. II \I don't want to give a book to someone who can afford to pay for it,\ said Chestara. \I just want to give a copy of. PPR to people who really can't afford to buy one. Or at a lesser price to those who can't afford to pay the full price. I wrote PPR1 based on my experiences and those of other. PR . . professionals, had it published, . and now I own the company. And I've got a lot of faith in people. Most are pretty fair and honest.\ Chestara's goal is just to get people to read PPR, thus the adoption of the \pay what you can\ marketing. Chestara has already donated three copies to the Albany library system and will be. donating five for Schenectady's, one for each branch. The author-publisher said PPR, published last December, is already in more than 200 libraries in the midwest. Its Library of Congress number if 88:..18212. Quality Books, Inc. is Sage's library distributor~ Union students can order it from the bookstore for $19.95. Its ISBN number if 0-929222- 00-8 and Baker & Taylor, the country's largest wholesaler. is · the distributor. \1 wanted to set a price for PPR that you could afford,\ Continued ·on page 3 By MARCI SILVERMAN The aU-campus vote concerning student opini<>n of the Honor Code Proposal held on Friday, April28, revealed a defeat of the proposition by a small margin; 56 percent to 44 percent in favor. The Student Forum conducted the poll through tile process of mass- mailing and concluded the results based on the ballots The all campus vote concerni11g stude:pt opinion revealed a defeat of the proposition by a small margin; 56 ·percent to 44 percent. returned by the student community. Interested students who took the initiative in propou)lding the proposal presented a discussiolt of its purposes. and benefits on Monday, April 24, in the College Center. Subseque11tly, on Tuesday evening, April 25, the issue was brought up for discussion by the Student Forum before concerned students, faculty .. and adJ,ninistration. : The large amount of : publicity the proposal received 1 serves as evidence of the Student Forum's efforts in striving for a more influe11tial role and stronger voice in ·student 3nd · administrative affairs. John Meier, \lice President of Academic Affairs, I feels that the success of the · Student Forum and various , student advocates of the 'proposition in informing the school community about the different aspects of the Honor Code can be seen as a giant leap in student influence and ability. The Student Forum served as . the means of presenting the issue and discussing its pros and cons and did take a position in favor of the Honor Code. · The purpose of the all-campus vote was to derive input from the student community as to whether students approved of and desired an Honor Code. According to John Meier, \the idea was brought about as to inform the community of Tbe large interest in the proposal • . . indicates a growing involvement of tbe student community in academic affairs. the positive and negative aspects of an honor system. The large interest in the proposal as evidenced by the large number of ballots returned and defeat by a surprisingly close margin indicates a growing involvement of the student community in academic affairs. Photo o.f the Week: Can we expect the Administration to save the Nott wl'len they allow Old Glory to look like this?

Vol. CXVIII, No. 21 Seco.nd. Stud·ent Suspended For Fire Alarm Vi.olation For tile second lirne in less than a m()nth, anoth.er ~tudent has bee:n suspended by the College for pulling a false fire alarm. The ~u:Spension followed an investigation of an incident in Fox Dormitory last month which resultoo in the evacuati()n of the d()rmatory. On April 9, a staulent was caught IJUlling fire alums in Fox and Davidson D(lrmitories. He chose to have lli~ case reviewed by an administrative review board who su.bsequently suspended him. \Students must understand the sel'iousness .of these incidents,\ Dean of Students Joseph L. Mamrnol:a noted. \It's net a joke to wake everyone up. False alarms jeopardjz:e the safety of all residents. Should a real fire occur in the building many will C()nclude it\s .another joke.\ Tile suspensions follow a number of similar earlier incidents in -wllicll the perpetra1Drs were not identified. 1877 Schenectady, New York May 4, 1989 Chemistry. Student Sele·cted For Elite Summer Program ~ ~ :: en a: :c 0 ~ 0 b :c 0.. Sophomore chemistry major Chris Willey has been chosen to attend a fellowship program at San Jose Siate University. By JAY FREELAND News .Editor Three weeks after this school year ends, Union College sophomore Chris Willey will attend a fellowship program in chemistry at San Jose State University. Sponsored by the Nuclear Chemistry and Technolegy division of the American Chemical Society. Chris was one of only twenty- four students nationwide to be selected fC>r the program. The pr()gram runs from June 26 - August 4 and the fellowship inchldes all transportation fees as well as room and board, books, and student fees. Willey's instructor at the San Jose site will be Professor Alan King, Ph.D., University of London, England. Chris will be taking three courses at the program. TwC> of them will fulfill Union College credits and one of thos~ two will count towards his ACS degree requirements. An ACS degree is a degree slightly higher than a Bachelor's and requics the completion of a couple additional upper-level courses that are not required by the Bachelor's. Upon completion of the program, the participating students will be provided with information on graduate schools in chemistry as well as assistance in finding summer employment for the following year in National Laboratories, universities or industry. Chris plans to attend graduate school to receive his Ph.D. and will specialize in forensic chemistry. Forensic chemistry is the analyzing of physical evidence from crimes and other such · incidents. Upon Continued on page 3 Personal Public Relations Gains Praise Throughout Capital District Area By JAY FREELAND The recently published book, Personal Public Relations, by Author John A. Chestara, is receiving acclaim by Capital District newspapers and at the same time adds a new twist to the pr<Jcess of selling and marketing. \I wish I'd bad a copy of PPR when I started my career,\ says John J. Finn, Ph.D., President, New Orleans Hospital Council. \Better yet, when I was in college.\ According to Polaris, a national magazine with a circulation of 8,000, the book is \easy to IJut down and 1>ick up again but it's likely you won't pnt it down often.\ \I don't want to give a book to someone who can afford to pay for it,\ said Chestara. \I just want to give a copy of PPR to people who really can't afford t> buy one. Or at a lesser price to those who can't afford to pay the full price. I wrote PPR, based ()D my experiences and tltose of other PR professionals, had it published, and now I own the company. And I've got a lot of faith in people. Most are pretty fair and honest.\ Chestara's goal is just to get people to read PPR, thus the adoption of the \pay what you can\ marketing. Chestara has already donated three copies to the Albany library system and will be donating five for Schenectady's, one for each branch. The author-publisher said PPR, published last December, is already in more than 200 libraries in the midwest. Its Library of Congress number if 88-18212. Quality Books, Inc. is Sage's library distributor. Union students can order it from the bookstore for $19.95. Its ISBN number if 0-929222- 00-8 and Baker & Taylor, the country's largest wholesaler, is the distributor. \I wanted to set a price for PPR that you could afford,\ Continued on page 3 Proposed Honor Code Reiected By Union Students B;y MARCI SIL YERMAN The all-campus vote concerning student opinion of the Honor Code Proposal held on Friday, April 28, revealed a defeat of the propositlon by a small margin; 56 percent to 44 percent in favor. The Student f()rum conducted the poll through the process of mass- mailing and concluded the results based on the ballots The all campus vote concerning student ()pinion revealed a defeat ()f the proposition by a small margin; 56 percent tCl 44 percent. returned by the student community. [nterested students who took the initiative in propounding the proposal presented a discussion of its purposes and benefits on Monday, April 24, in the College Center. Subsequently, on Tuesday evening, April 25, the issue was brought up for discussion by the Student Forum before concerned students, faculty, and administration. The large amount of p11blicity the proposal received serves as evidence of the Student Forum's efforts in striving for a more influential role and stronger voice in student and administrative affairs. John Meier, Vice President of Academic Affairs, 1 feels that the success of the Student Forum and various student advocates of the proposition in informing the school community about the different aspects of the Honor Code can be seen as a giant leap in student influence and ability. The S tudcnt Forum served as the means of presenting the issue and discussing its pros and cons and did take a position in favor of the Honor Code. · The purpose of the all-campus vote was to derive input from the student community as to whether students approved of and desired an Honor Code. According to John Meier, \the idea was brought about as to inform the community of The large interest in the proposal . . . indicates a growing involvement of the student community in academic affairs. the positive and neg a ti vc aspect~ of an honor system. The large interest in the proposal as evidenced by the large number of ballots returned and defeat by a surprisingly close margin indicates a growing involvement of the student commllnity in academic affairs. en ::;: <( :::; :::! 3: Cf) a: :c 0 fu 0 b :c 0.. Photo of tho Weak: Can we expect the Administration to save the Nott when they allow Old Glory to look like this?

. Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 (!T.nn curb i.ensis N-EWS ANAL YSI·S Jim Wright Sealed His own Fate By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. The end of the road may be in sight for Jim Wright's political prominence within. the beltway, and. in light of his own ·Cut-thmat attitude towards politics, it is both. fitting and ironic. As charges of his \lack of ethics\ and political manipulation mount, the House Speaker may finally realize that a wounded foe is the most dangerous one of all. Wright is charged With 69 counts of breaking the House rules, not to mention suspected collaboration in the extension -· of the S&L crisis in his horne ' state of Texas. Among the more visible of these allegations are dodging outside income. restrictions, filing incompl·ete financial disclosures, accepting illegal gratuities, and using fedetta:l funds for the poor to ·enhance his re.putation back horne (National Review April 21, 1'989). To the charges, Wright has the gall to go so far as saying that \everyone does it.\ While the recent rampage of character assassinations on Capitol Hill has. reached ridiculous popularity, Wright's case is befitting .. The Texas A.nniversary Of Wash:ington's lnn.auguratio·n Yields A Time To Reflect By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager This week has made the news world reflect on the past two hundred years of ·the presidency. The past weekend had many c~remonies com- memorating the inauguration of George Washington. One such event was held on the actual site of the inauguration in New York City. The event was attended by {!eorge Bush. This week forces people in politics to drop the disputes going on in the Congress and be happy that we are free to have disputes. It gives Americans a time to reflect on democrat reveled in both John_ Tower's and Oliver North's respective falls, while cleverly avoiding the punches. Now that he is in the ring, Wright appears unable to box. Pointing the finger has terrible consequences these days, and even loyal democrats admit tbat Wright has put himself \in hip deep water\ (New.sweek, April 21, 1989). W tight claims that the charges against him are \minor but one could. argue that so are accusations of a mid-70's drinking problem. Indeed in the Congress according to Wright, the speaker is above peer scrutiny. the history of the :United States. When thinking of history, the first event in the mind .of all Americans is the Revolutionary War. The great military mind of Ge()rge Washington, the winter at Valley Forge, and the victory at Williamsburg. Most Americans would then skip to , the Civil War, a dark blotch in our history. The battle of Bull Run and brothers versus brothers. Then comes the two World Wars and the United States as the liberator of captured people from the · .tyrants of authoritarian regimes. Next, the Cold War that has lasted until the present day, with arms buildups and explosive power never before What Mr. Wright fails to realize is that he too is an elected officer and must adhere to the same oath which all other · representatives do. Casualness towards the rules is . for the wielding of golf dubs, not Congressienal gavels. Wright probably believes mulligans don't count, either .. The stumbling ·Wright· admits that \I have had easier times.\ This certainly must refer to the good old days of ha.rd- baH, Lyndon Johnsonesque Congress, where things were more easily swept under the rug, and \understood.'' Jim. Wright .called the cleaners a bit too equaled on the face of the earth. the history· seems a glorious and untarnished story of a , country striving for greatness. More educated individuals and followers of the political scene would tend ·to recall the even~s listed above but ·there is more to the story tnan listed. After the revolution and the presidency of Washington, the partisan politics of Jeffers()n and the historic Supreme Court case of Marbury v. Madison, which fostered judicial rev.iew .. Next would be the War of 1812 and the Mexican-American War. After the Civil War, the discussion would tum to the politics of the industrial revolution and tbe union formations. After that, the two Wotld Wars, the Cold War. and early this time. If good judgment is what be was elected for, one must wonder why he, of a11 people, pushed ethics to the forefront. In a sense, Jim Wright turned himself in . We need leaders who are able to practice what the,y preach, who. are unafraid to walk the thin line. Wright wealdy fell into conupQ.on,-and now· must pay the price. If I were John Tower, -I'd: mink to Jim Wright, an4 even ask ~im to drop by. In their own eyes, they should ba:ve a lot in common, and should both have a lot to talk about, and wonder how it all went wrong. the Civil Rights cases in the Supreme Court. There would also be inclusions of Watergate and the Cuban Missile crisis. It is impossible to list all the major events. After this reflection, a smile would come to, someone's .face and be satisfied that tbe country is not perfect, but it is the best country in the world. Therefore, I say to all, the disputes are what made this country great and without them we would not be able to argue at all. So, to the Democrats .and the Republicans please do not stop the arguing because that will stall the growth of- the country. The politicking has made this country great and it is getting even better. Is Gorbachev A True Reformer? . I By STACEY PAPA In the past yeat, the western press has made headlines of Soviet reforms and its moves toward democratization. How much of this democratizing is for foreign consumption and how much is genuine? Does · Mikhail Gorbachev plan to lay the groundwork for the demise of the Communist Party's \leading :role?' This is not the first time a Russian leader has made piecemeal reforms. Catherine II of Russia came to the throne in 1762 during the Enlightenment Period. She so11ght to convince the world that Russia was part of Europe and not a backward Asiatic state. She wanted to convince the philosophers that despotism was endemic. She also wanted to convince her people that the system was changing in order to get their cooperation for economic reforms. Mr. Gorbachev has made a huge media spectacle out of a few insignificant reforms. He claims to be increasing the living standard of the average Soviet citizen by increasing economic efficienc-y (Perestroika); be further states that the Soviet Union is rnore open (Glasnost). He boasts that he is leading the country toward democmcy. Unfortunately. the reforms are designed to allay the fears of both countrymen and outside observers while keeping power in its traditional hand. The significant reforms are in the economic sector and are designed to increase the efficiency of Communist rule. The openness of the press is restoring people's faith. in the written word. The elections which have been touted as the freest ever are a propaganda master stroke. Like the legislative commission of Catherine, the Supreme Soviet has no power. By yielding, \Low Politics\ which includes many local offices such as dog catcher and electing people to a Sham Parliament, Gorbachev has convinced people that he js a true· reformer. Gorbachev has used these elections to solidify hi~ own hold on power. While doing so he bas preserved \high politics\ as the bastion of the Communist Party. The real decisions will continue to be made by the same men (The Politburo) while keeping the pretense , of popular participation. Gorbacbev was forced to institute some changes. The inefficient · Communist economy was half the size of the United States. In order to match U.S. anns spending the USSR needed twice the percentage of GNP. Trying to match the Reagan artns spending nearly ran the Soviet economy into the ground. The Soviet Union would not be capable at this point to go to war with the western powers. They spend approximately 14% on arms whereas we spend about 7% in terms of our GNP. They cannot keep op at this. With a stronger modernized economy the USSR will have the economic means to back up its military power. Remember that in the early Bolshevik years the Soviets had the New Economic Policy (NEP) to increase economic production. Land was given to people, and the majority of the power was in the hands of local Soviets. Then came Stalin. He slaughtered the Kulaks, took their· land and recentralized power. He was able to •do this after the NEP had created an economically viable system. People claim that reform once given to them cannot be taken away.· To reiterate, Gorbachev's reforms are mostly insignificant. Thus:it is as a mother possessing the authority to take a piece of candy a:way from her child. Stalin and his reign of terror wiped out re~orms in a month. His KGB is still in place and a new NKUD can be established. Gotbachev could reinstitute his . own reign of terror, just ;:t more advanced one. .Gorbachev's peaceful disposition has allayed western fears and allowed the Soviet Union to catch its breath. With decr-eased fears, western technology and· capital is beginning to flow into the east block. By yielding a few insignificant reforms . Gorbachev has captured the hearts ·of Western idealists. With its new found friendship with the ·west the Soviet Union will be able to gain valuable technology and hard currency. .This will enable the Communist Party to develop a stronger. mpre efficient dictatorship. Beware: Gotbachev- is in Russian tradition \a wolf in sheep's cloth .. \ Economics Club Lunch Table Wednesdays 12:55 in College Genter Room 302 Economics Crisis Center If you need help in Intro or any core courses Social Sciences Room103 4:00-5:00 pm ' ' 'I i

CONCORDIENSlS May 4, 1989 Page 3 Conservation and Environmental 'AWare.nes·s .SPAA Encourages Alternative Method of ·Waste ·.Disposal By EILEEN SCUTT · If the red bins in the College Center and Steinmetz have had you confused. question no more! It is a part of a larger effort tQ promote environmental awareness and consequently, recycling. This week SPAA is sponsoring environmental awareness programs at a table in the College Center in order to increase awareness on such issues as recycling. · receive; while recycling plants can produce reusable and maJketable products. Do we .really need more · JandfiJ.ls? Eventually· space is . bound. to run out. Conservative estimates say that within eight years, 90% of ·now-empty landfill space will be filied. . While many people support · a \Not in My Backyard · Theory.\ i.f we continue to , produce garbage and hazardous · waste irresponsibly, it is bound to wind up there. Recycling produces mote jobs for the . <;ommunity; and it has the Union Student Receives National Fellowship Continued from page 1 completing his Ph:D., Willey 1 hopes to work for the PSI or the Dow Chemical Company. This fellowship, however, is not the first honor Willey has received in the field of chemistry .. Upon completing high school where he was valedictorian, Willey was awarded a f<lur-year :scholarship by Dow. Willey currently works in the chemistry department as a student aide and will continue working there next year as a Dana ·scholar which will grant him $500 pet PPR Has Much To Offer Past, Present And Future College Students Continued from page 1 Chestara said. \But who are you? A college student or a professor? Starting your first job, a new job, or looking for a job? Climbing a.career ladder or stalled on a rung? Happily married or wishing you were? Or just someone who wants to take control of your life?\ employees showed that 35% couldn't get along with their . boss; 25% couldn't get along with their co~workers. Many relations go bad as well because of not getting along, \I don't want to give a book to someon~ who can afford to pay for it,\ said Chestara, \l just want to give a copy • to people wh.o really can't afford it.\ Why recycle? Other methods of solid waste disposal are landfilting· and incineration. • .. potential to become a · profitable industly. It take~ more people to create than to · , term. His main responsibility PPR discusses in depth how to present ideas, opinions, and viewpoints; get agreements, . • cooperation and recognition; nnd learn and underStand others' needs and desires to help ·you , achieve your own .. The ,book · describes how easy ~t is to define one's \publics get to know and understand them, and · motivate them. He also defines · how to communicate easily and effectively in the four distinct · ways we' all communicate -- how one looks, acts,. speaks, and writes. It suggests pitfalls to effective communications and how to avoid them, and finally, how to research a company, your boss, a professor, meet and get to know that person, and plan and develop a PPR program to meet personal objectives and goals in school, career, business, marriage, and social life. With re.cycling, no harmful by-products are .produced and valuable resources are conserved instread of continuously e:xtrac·ting material from the environment~ · simply destroy. It also . · encourages local responsibility . rather than -sending the community's garbage to a distant facility. We must face up to the fact that someday oar planet's resources will run out unless we take steps to conserve them. SPA.A urges Incineration is environmentally unsound; it destroys part of the limited resources available to us on this planet. The health risks that go with incineration are net well understood, but we do know that it produces an ash that contains quantities of two toxic metals, lead and cadmium. This ash must then be disposed of at hazardous waste landfills. With recyc1ing no harmful by-products are . produced and valuable resources . are conserved instead of · continuously extracting material frollJ. the environment. Recycling is also a more economically feasible method of disposal. Incineration plants c~ only bum the garbage they •; Recycling produces more jobs .for the community; it bas the potential to become a profitable industry. the college commumity to use the red bins in order to do this. This week, in addition to paper recycling; information on the controversial amendment to the bottle bill will also be presented. This amendment would take the proceeds from unreturned bottles and turn them over to the local municipalities as funding to be used for toxic waste control. IN·CIDENTS REPORT Date Time location 4/25 2:35am South Lane 4/25 9:44am Hale House . 4/25 3:29pm Delta Delta Delta 4/25 6:53pm Campus 4/26 5:38 pill Chi Psi 4/26 6:15 pri1 Webster House I 4/26 11:22 pm Fieldhouse 4/27 12:31 am West Colleg~ area 4/28 4:43am Delta Chi 4/28 6.:04pm Girting Center 4/28 7:44pm Alpha Delta Phi 4/29 4:00am North Terrace Lane 4/30 12:38 am Silliman Hall 4/30 · 1 :06 am Day Care Center 4/30 1:21 am Delta Chi 4/30 2:00 am Security Office 4/30 3:20 am Richmond House Incident Vandalism to college owned vehicle. Theft of Food Service equipment reported. Report of undesirable. Assisted Niskayuna Police in attempting to locate individual. Student ·removed from roof area. Student reports theft of credit cai'd. Unauthorized entry into building. 'Repart pf suspicious group of males in area. Report of outside fire unattended. Report of suspicious group of individuals on . property. \Removed students fr.om roof. Report of hit \' run property damage automobile accident. Non-student attemptin(J forced entry into .buildirtg. • security Officer assaulted during questioning. Attempted burglary. Property recovered. Report of unattended exterior fire. . Non-student reports ·'being assaulted ~;~t Chi Psi while attending Social event. Report of unconscious female student. Paramedics respondecl. Student transported to Ellis Hospital. Sponsored by the Nuclear Chemistry and· Technology div.ision of the American Chemical Society, Chris was one of only twenty-four students nationwide to be selected for the program. will be to run the stock room in the chemistry department. Willey's advisor is Professor Werner,. and Willey hopes that the summer after his junior year he can work at the College with Werner and o.ther chemistry :professors and help them in their research. Willey looks forward to his challenge . which lies ahead at San Jose State and to his future at Union College. Lee Iacocca says that having · trouble getting along with people is \the kiss of death.\ A study of 100 terminated ERRATA or the inability to communicate effectively . In addition to Polaris, PPR has· also gained favorable reviews from the Schenectady Times Union and the Troy Record. Chestara expects another favorable review this Friday from the Schenectady Gazette. \You can get your copy of PPR by sending a check for $5, $10, $15 1 $19.95, any amount in between, or 'nothing' ~ if that's all you can honestly afford- plus $3.90 for postage and handling (I can give you a book, but I can't pay P&H to get it to you) to Sage Publishing Company, 26 . Moonlawn Road, Troy, New York 12180. Just mention the · name of your school.\ Concordiensis apologizes for the errors made in last week's article titled \Student Forum Gains First Quorum Of Term.\ President Peter Costa notified Concordiensis that it was the second quorum of tbe term, the $21,000 debt referred to as the Student Forum's actually is the Student Activity Fund's Debt, and Greek Week, not Camp Union, will be held behind the fieldhouse. Concordiensis apologizes for these errors. SUMMER/PART TIME JOBS • Girl Scouts of Genesee Valley are looking for a waterfront director for their summer staff. Located in the Finger Lakes area of New York State. • Norrell Services, a temp. agency located in Albany, has a variety of clerical positions ~vailable, for now and the summer. • Student Hosteling Program needs leaders for their bike trip in aU parts of the world t,p.is summer. • Choices, a temp. agency, offers long and short ter.m positions in downtown Washington D.C. area for the summer. • The Legal Assistant Program at Syracuse University is now accepting applications for their sumrner program~ APPLICATION DEADLINE: MAY 8. • Regional Marketing Systems, Inc., located in Dobbs Ferry, has· a position open this summer in sales. • Cornell Cooperative Extension of.Schenectady County is looking for a student full time this summer for the designing, producing, and marketing of materials for a 4-H program. • Simrnon's Fastener .CorpOration; located in Albany; NY, has openings this summer in mantlfacturing and assembly areas. . ***FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THESE JOBS AND MORE, COME TO THE CDC.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 FEATURES The Health and Fitness Column ' . By JACQUELINE RANDALL Americans are becoming very health conscious. In an effort to eat nutriously, many people unconsciously avoid important nutrients. Iron is a valuable nutrient that is often lacking in our diets. Our specific needs for nutrients are based on our biochemical .inheritance, the environmental stresses in our life and our eating habits. Out bodies cannot function without iron. bon makes up an important part of the protei1;1 . hemoglol)in--f:he compound in blood that carries oxygen from the lungs to our body cells. After releasing oxygen, the red blood cells pick up the carbon dioxide and bring it back to the lungs to, be exhaled. About three-quarters of the iron in the body is in the red blood cells; therefore, when we lose or give blood, our iron levels decrease .simultaneously. Many women during their. menstruation time suffer from iron loss. In fact, iron deficiency is far more common among women than men. To replace the lost iron, the body provides special proteins to absorb it from the food and carry it to the liver, bone marrow, and other blood- manufacturing sites. Our bodies have the ability to .store excess iron in special organs. If our body's supply of iron decreases, or the need for iron increases for any .reasons, the body can respond accordingly. Iron deficiency in the blood is widespread among all ages, sex and races. If we have low levels of iron, then our bodies cannot produce enough hemoglobin to fill its new red blood cells. If this occurs., every cell in the body responds and we ,may feel weak, tired and eXperiencebeadaches, shortness of bre.ath, paleness of skin, constipt.ti<Jrt· and anemia. Iron deficiencr anemica can make us. feel cold,. get sick more often and mal:e us more prone to infectio11s. Sometimes ou,r fmgemails even tum pale~ An iron deficiency can also ~ffect -other body tissues includ:i!l:g the brain. Iron, along with 31\C)ther enzyme, assists in the maki,ng of the neUf()tJ:llri·Smitters -- the sub-stances that transport messages from ene nerve cell toanoteer. To check if we are deficient in iro-n., measure the number and size of ihe red blood cells and of their hemoglobin conce11tration. Most of us do net get the Recommended Dietat:Y\ Allowancd (RDA) of iron which is 10 .. 15 mg for infants,. 15·18 ;mg for chil~en, 10 mg for men and 18 mg for wome11.. In fact, our bodies absorb only 10% of the iron that we:. intake. The IJest preventative of iron deficie11cy is an iron-rich diet. Some S()urces of iron are lean meat,. liver, egg yolks, leafy green vegetables, wheat germ, whole grain breads and cereals, blackstr~p molasses, legumes, oysters, turkey; and Pried fruits. The darker the meat, the higher the iron content; this also applies to leafy green ve.g¢tables. So, the next time you are at Price Chopper, liven up your diet t;y adding spinach, collards, kale and bole choy to your grocery list. Then stir fry these in an iron skillet. By cooking in an iron pan, the iron content of the foods can be tripled. As college students, we come and go as we choose and eat when we want, when we have time, Obviously, this affects the amount of iron we get in our iliet. It is important to note that it is possible to get our iran requirement without eating meat. Iron supplements such as ferrous gluconate or ferrous fumarate can be taken to improve iron absorption. In addition~ absorption of iron from plant sources is often enhanced when it's combined with Vitamin C. Students should also increase their diet of iron-rich · food when exercising. Adequate- ingestion of iron is critical to our health and vigor. Ptease direct your questions and comments to Box 1993. STUDENT FORUM ELECTION·s. TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDEN·TS President -Senior Representives to Aluntni Council V.P. for Acadetnic Mfairs Junior Trustee V.P. For Administration V.P. For Finance Sophon1ore, Junior, Senior · Class Representatives PETITIONS AVAILABLE NOW In the Student Activities Office 4th Floor College Center . PETITIONS DUE MONDAY, :MAY 8th! \The Student Forum is . . . responsible for promoting the student body of Union College., The elected officals administer the student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise stuqent organizations, and through student membership on College comittees, .advise the College Administration of issues pertaining to the student body.\ .I I I. f: ; ' I

i i ;, .. ' l i CONCORJ)lENSlS · May 4, 1989 Page 5 FEATURES ·Don't ·Ever Wear A . ; ' . ' . - ..... I The Demythologizing Of The Animal House Image Strapless Dress By KRISTIE ARNHOLD If any of you are thinking of wearil)g one of tliqse .charming strapless bapgowns to any - spring formals~ please think · twice. It could mean ' the difference betWeen a memorable evening for you, . or a memorable evening for those who have to look at you. Whether busty or flat, the strapless dress ·is simply a menace to the fashion world. No m~tter how many pins are attached,. or b.ow little one is able to hfeathe, the dress without straps refuses to· stay up. And wb.y should it? The thing itself is a contradtction in terms. How can a dress Without straps hold ii$elf up? Even if it has a great deal to cling onto, it is a helpless mountai·n climber without a rope, fearing the inevitable and embarrassing fall. The Lost and Found, located at Security and Safety Dept., Campus Operations Center, has many arUcles of Clothing, Glasses, Car Keys and Books. If you have lost. articles, please check with us, in person, at the Security Dept. any time during the hours of 8:30 a.m. to 4:00p.m. Monday thru Friday. ls fast, before Graduation. approaching PLEASE check leaving camp:us. YOU PROBABLY SHOLILD START A NEW PARAGRAPH HERE,· ANDTI4EN MA¥BE CAPITALIZE TillS WORD ... W~AT El5f: ,UJOULD '(OU LIKE 10 KNOW., If on~ stand,s perfectly still with one's anns pinned to one's · sides,. a strapless dress is tolerable. It is uncomfortable, but bearable for pictures. and stuffy introductions (as iong as you don't have to shake hands). However, usually one wears a strap less dress to some sort of ball or dance type of function. Dancing for the strapless dress is analogous to an avalanche for the mountain climber. \She' is trying to shake me off, she is testing me!\ orders tb.e black velvet. \They need a1r, let them out the top,\ orders the pink taffeta. After the dance battle, the strapless dress wants nothing more than to relax. This is where the wearer's war begins, when the strapless dress gives up. \Pull up your . dress, honey,\ \Look! That girl's dress is going to fall dQwn if she keeps dancing,\ \That poor girl, she's been tugging at her dress all night.\ I am sure that many of you can sympathize 'With whispered comments such as these which generate through every dance crowd. One would think that strapless dr~sses would have found their way out of vogue long ago, but their presence overwhelms every formal function. By DESMOND WARD Last Wednesday in Memorial Chapel, Will Keirn, a Delta Upsilon alumnus and a campus minister at Oregon State, spoke on the pros and cons of greek life. Mr. Keirn has spoken to over 100,000 students in over 500 colleges about the responsibi,litics greek organizations have to the colleges and communities around them. He captured the Union audience with his humor and sobered the crowd with a moral behind every story he told. Calling for a more responsible greek system, Mr. Keirn insisted that fraternities and sorarities coop~rate to eliminate alcohol and drug abuse. sexual abuse, and hazing. \The fraternities and sororities are what y<lu make of them,\ he said, \and they can do a lot for you, so don't misuse them.\ Fraternities and sororities have contributed over $10 million, and over one million hours of community service to chari.ty, the large.st contributions of any student organization. Greeks hold a higher GPA than uon-greeks and they graduate at a 10% higher rate as well. The roster of greeks in the community includes doctors, lawyers, judges, cabinet advisors, chairmen/ chairwomen of corporations and several presidents of the United States. Then, vrhy do the greeks have that animal house image.? The dark side of lhe matter is that over 40 brothe.rs and pledges have been killed and over 50 date rapes have been committed within the past ten years. As Mr. Keim noted, there is a problem of drinking in some fraternities that has to be curtailed and most date rapes are alcohol related. \You guys are in a time when sex can kill,\ Mr. Keirn said, \and you better become more rcsponsibile with both your sex and your alcohol.\ Will Keirn's speech was funny, entertaining, and he definitely got his point across. The greek system, can be a great asset to your college life if you are responsible about it. Time~ have changed and the greek system is under fire. Fraternities and sororities have to compromise their traditions a little so that the system can survive. UNION COLLEGE Speakers Forum Presen'ts this Spring Term: G. Gordon Liddy Friday, May 12 , • Memorial Chapel • 8 p.m. IF JJ Jf CZ!BI [fJ rt; lJf1 John Roarke, Impressionist Friday, May 19 • Upperclass Dining • 8 p.m. I Rich Hall, Comedian Sat. May 27 • Memorial Chapel • 8 p .. m. ·FREE • FREE • FREE • FREE

Pag~ 6 CONCORJJlENSlS M-lly 4,. 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Special Tours of Soviet Union Planned For Student andY outh Travelers. . 'o/1@ 1L @ fM 1f I~.~ I~~ lM ·~·. ~ ® ·~ ·.tg Young Americans will have the oppottunity this summer (}[ walking the sa11dy beaches (}[ Odessa, explorillg the medieval town of Tallin:n and strolling the Red Square ·in MosC()W through a program of special travel tours to the USSR. designed for.st11dents and youth by SPUTNIK:; the Sov.iet Union's Youth 'Travel Bw·eau.. There are nine tou1s available, according to Lany Feldman, Cou11cil Connections Tours Manager at Council Travel Services, the U.S. operator of the program. Council Tra-vel is the travel division of tbe Council en International Educatio11al Exchange, a not-for-profit organizati()E of 200 universities, C()lleges and youth GERMAN CLUB PRESENTS Frualingssinfome (Spring Symphony) .. 1·.983 May 15 cc 406 7:80pm agencies. \There are one-week tours to Moscow and Leningrad, the great centers of Rus.sian history, politics, and culture,\ s~ys Feldman. \There .are also two-week tours that include Moscow and Leningrad plus a selection of other cities, including Tallinn in Soviet Estonia; Kiev and Odessa in the Ukraine and :Sukhara; Khiva and Tashkent .in Soviet Central Asia,\ During the trip, American youths will be able to meet wi~h and talk to their Soviet peers, according to Feldman. ''The positive changes in V.S.J Soviet relations have sparked an enormous increase in . interest in the Soviet Union from Americans of all ages,\ says Feldman. \It's important for young Americans to have an opportunjty . to see the Soviet Union themselves.\ Cost of a one-week tour is as 1ittle as $349 for the land-only portion, which includes accommodatians in two to four-bedded rooms with full board, sightseeing programs, internal rail travel in four-berth sleeping cars, English-speaking .guide and, where applicable, domestic flights in economy~ class. Airfare to Russia from Paris is available at attractive rates for participants. For a free brochure and ad(iitional information, contact Cbui:lcil Travel Services at 20$ East 42nd St., New York, NY 1:0017. Telephone (212) 661- 1450. Anyo,ne interested in worki:n.g for the Schenectady Museu,m M:ay 12 - 14 for th:e·ir International Week - Plea·se contact Sue at x4066 They need· h·elp. in $ettjing up ta·bles on Friday a:nd cleanlng up o:n Su.nday. ''No matter how bad they are, Grandrila loves to hear the latest jokes.,~ You miss her sparkling sense of humor. She misses you and your jokes. Even the bad ones. That's one good reason to call long distance. AT&T Long Distance Service is another good reason. Be- cause it costs less than you think to hear your grand- mother start to giggle be- fore you even get to the punch line. So whenever you miss her laughter, bring a·smile to.her face with AT&T. Reach outandtouchsoineone~ Ifvou'd like to know more ab.out AT&T products and services, like the A.T &T Card, callus at 1 800 222:0300. ATS&T The right choice.

This Week . in -the World by Shelley Sz:ymko (4/25{89 .., 5!1/89) Japan: The resignation of Prime Minister Noboru Takeshita is an action away from political corruption within the country and an action toward increased leadership abroad, However, leaders~ip will be weakened and political-uncertainty will occur following this resignafr()n, It is not known who will be Takeshita's successor1 but this individt;Jal will find it necessary to rebuild the Libera} Democratic Party·'s image which presently is viewed as a dirty-money oligarchy following tbe disastrous Recruit Co. stock 8candal. - Palestine: two men accused of colalborating with Israeli authorities were lcilled by Palestini,an assailants. The attack was initiated by underground leaders of the Arnb uprising for attacks on those aiding IsraeL · China: Protests for more democratic freedons in China started by university students April 15th had subsided but once agam· have recurred as workers and six thousand students have riot:OO .in J3eijing. The Chinese government has warned that any fu.rther student unrest poses. a threat to the CCP and that such actions will receive strict punishment. The warnings came as students boycotted classes for a second day. Workers have also been urged by government officials to .stay on the job. Soviet Union: Mikhail Gorbachev has further increased his power with a purge of senior Soviet officials. This action occurr~d as an attempt to speed up the nati~n's restructuring prqgram. One hundred members of the Communist Party's main decision-making bodies have resigned from their positions following the national elections in late March. Among those resigning are officials linked to the Brezhnev era , .. and nearly a quarter of the Central Committee has been dismissed. According to Gorbachev this move will ~low fer \rearrangement of the forces in the party and in society as a whole.\ Lebanon: More than 300 peQple have been killed and 1,000 have been injured in wb.at is the worst devastation in Beirut in 14 years of war. The chaos was caused by the latest shelling duels which have continued since March when General Aoun and the Lebanese army blockaded Moslem seaports used for gun-running and drug-trafficking and also when Syria retaliated by firing Shells on Christian East Beirut. The conflict is to be resolved by the Arab League. l·sraeli Week May 8 .. -May 13 Monday, May 8 Falafel Sale • Library Plaza Tuesday, May 9 Term-Abroad Booth • GO Wednesday, May 10 Israeli Independence Day Israeli Dancing Program Thursday, May 11 Ttee in Israeli Sale Friday, May 12 Shabbat Dinner Saturday, May 13 \Judaism at the Crossroads\ Professor 8 erk wi II speak in SS 1 05 at 10:15 a.m. Brunch will be served:. Sponsored· by the J.ewish Student Union CONCORDIENSIS M~y 4, 1989 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES The Border Wars of 1992 By NATALY RE~BAULT 19.92 is the European phenomenon... The great project of the EEC~ is to turn its twelve countries into a barrier free market, by the end of 1992, a \Europe without frentiers.\ This project without a doubt will do mote for the coming together of Europe than any other European initiative since the Treaty of Rome of 1957, which removed the tariff and quotas between European CQuntries. Furthermore, subsequent failed attempts to move tbe EEC forward showed what avenues to avoid. This is partly why this initiative is prone to success, the designers of 1992 learned from the mistakes of the past. Frontiers are the most obvious symbol of the EEC's . division and in 1992, they are to fade away; both for people and for .goods. But European countries will have to face great changes in order to abolish frontiers, and this will certainly not go without problems. The fact that 12 counties, each having their own set of laws and regulations, are to work and cooperate together will lead the European countries to reach some kind Of common conSensus. Problems start with .. the fact that the EEC is to become a zone without passport control. Among the numerous complications that might occur, here are two obvious examples: West Gennany has extremely strict gun controls, France has an American-like right to bear arms. De-nmark, which is a member of the EEC, ipsists upon maintaining a passport free arrangement with the Nordic countries (not members of the EEC). With respect to laws, 1992 offers the prospect of competitive lawmaking. in European countries. Europe's companies and people will in principle be allowed to vote for the member state that offers them laws. Hopefully, competitive lawmaking will not lead to anarchy. 1992 will, in fact, be an adventure in deregulation; deregulation fot drafting Community laws to a new majority voting system to push those laws through. This project without doubt, will do tn()re for the coming together of Europe than any other European initiative since the Treaty of Rome. Tax is also a cru-:;ial point for the expectations of 1992. In choosing wheth.er to tax peeple's income or what they do with it European governments have remained their own masters. The experience of the United States shows that contiguous states can maintain differences in sales tax of up to about five percentage points without the tax leakage becoming unbearabl~. Europe will definitely, one way or another, have to ahcieve such an American order of tax sameness if it is to get rid of its tax frontiers. But the differences across the EEC's sales tax are large.and are compounded by the VAT. The finance ministries have had two committees study the problem of.taxes and_ both have nodded gravely at the problems involved. Every government has its reasons for refusing a given tax rate. The British government, for example, insists that high rates on duty on drink and tobacco be maintained for health reasons. But it cannot entertain the idea of VAT on food because it promised never to ompose it during the campaign for lat year's general election. The Danes face the prospect of losing 6% of GDP's worth tax. And by the way, neighboring Germany's standart VAT rate is eight percentage points lower than theirs. Yet, there are other problems with regard to the elimination of frontiers. In a custom free Europe the only trade policy that a member-state can have towards the outside world is a Community one. Such a prospect does not square with the article 115 of the Treaty of Rome, which authorizes the commission to allow member- states to take their own protective measures to shield themselves from \economic difficulties.~~ Article 115 underpins a number of practical blockages that are inconsistent with project 1992. For example, France and Italy limit the number of Japanese cars imported each year by \Voluntary Restraint · Agreements.\ Because of the fact that there is no uniform \type approval\ for cars in the EEC, France and Italy can block any fl,ow of Japanese cars via other EEC countries~ So far, some progresses have been made to overcome the frontier problems within the Community. But governments are still working at it and until they come up with some customs-free solution, a proper internal market will not exist.·

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Chemistry Students Report On Research Ten seniors majoring in chemistry at Union College gave report<; on their joint rc<.;(;arch with professors at the Undergraduate Chemistry Symposium sponsored by the Eastern New York Seeton of the A mcrican Chemical Society April 22 at Skidmore College, Saratoga Springs. Union had the largest number of studenL<> making rcsc<.~rch presentations among the 12 students from nine colleges who participated in the conference. The students, the research topics and the professors in vol.vcd arc as follows: In the Organic II and Biophysical Section, William Jones of East Hampton, NY, \Attempted Synthesis of 1,2- Bis-Orthotolyl- Cyclopcntcne,\ Professor William R Martin Jr.,; Ronald L. Willson of Hicksville, N.Y., \Synthesis and Characteri1.ation of Two All-Aliphatic Sterieally Hindered. Esters: Prof Martin; Beni Brian Wolfof Newburgh, NY, \A Mechanistic Study of the Sap<Jnification of PivaJoatc Esters,\ Prof. Martin; and Steffani Larof of Plattsburgh, N.Y., \Tyrocidine Interactions with DNA,\ Prof. Janet Anderson. In the Orgaznomctallic Section, Robin L. Miller of Massapequa, N.Y., \Construction and Testing .of a System for Flash Photochemical Studies,\ Prof. David M. Hayes. In the Physical/ Analytical/ Inorganic Section, Raymond Ashley of South Plainfield\' N.J., \An Attempt at S tercospccific Inorganic Synthesis,\ Prof. Charles F. Weick. In the Physical Organic, Bio- Organic and Biophysial Section, Kristine A. LoParo of Wayne, N.J, \Effects of Fluorinated Alcohols on the Spectral Properties of 2'- · U/C IBM USERS GROUP MEEflNG Announcement TllURSDAY, MAY 11, 1989 Noon - 1:00 p.m. COLLEGE CENTER RM. 409 \New Product Demonstration · with Jay Ilurewitz of Egghead Software\ Desserts and Beverages provided The D~partmer:-tt of Mathematics is conducting a re·appointment review for · Professor Michael Frame assistant professor of Mathematics. Any member of the college community who wishes to contribute written or oral testimony about Professor Frame's teaching, professional activites~ or college- service may contact Professor William Zwicker in Bailey H.all 200A (Ext. 6160). Acetonaphthone in Non-Polar Solvents,\ Prof. Thomas C. Werner; Lisa R. Nicosia of Greene, N.Y .• \Determination of the Kenetic and Thermodynamic Properties of Bisulfate Addition to 4-Nitro a n d 4 - DimethylaminocinnamaJdchydc ,\ Pr:of. Lesl.ie A .. Hull; Diane A. Piasecki of Philadelphia, Pa., \'Cl3-H-NMR Studies of the Bisulfite Addition Products of S implc Carbonyl Compounds,\ Prof. Hull; and Leslie Shapiro ef Scarsdale, N.Y., \Conforfmational Energy Calculations of Tyrocidine;\ Prof. Anderson. < New England Environmental Career .Fair '89 May s, 1 o, 11 HYNES·CONVENTION pENTER BOSTON, MA. It was announced tod.ay that plans are being finalized for the New England Environmental Career Fair '89 and information. packages are now being maileo to companies wishing to exhibit and career appliCants wanting to be prescreened. This Career Fair, being held in conj.unction with the New England Environmental Exposition, will be held on· May 9, 10, and 11 ~t the Hy-nes Convention Center in Boston. Katherine Honey, organizer of the Career Fair, said that \Career Fair '89 will provide a unique opportunity for professionals and students of environmental disciplines to meet with companies recruiting exclusively for positions- in the environmental fields.\ She explained that individuals taking advantage of the prescreening service will receive a list of companies partic~pating at Career Fair '89 that hire .personner -' with their qualifications. \We are very excited about this new service which will be invaluable to both companies and individuals and will make the best use of everyone's time,\ Honey said. She added that prescreened applicants will be able to meet with company representatives at times prior to the general public opening. Honey also announced that the Career Assistance Center ;will be providing a speaker's schedule,. including presentations by the Environmental Internship Program and Massachusetts State Senator William Golden, and. representatives of various public sector. agencies will be available to discuss career opportunities in their agencies. In addition, the Massachusetts State Office of Minority and Women Busines~ Assistance will be available on Tuesday, May 9th to meet with businesses wishing to do business with the state. Honey said that companies wishing to exhipit, and individuals wishing to be prescreened, should contact her office as soon as possible for application packets. Information is available from the New England Environmental Career Fair '89 by writing to them at P.O. Box 2179, Attleboro, MA 02703 or by calling 508/222-2254. CALENDAR EDITORS: NEW ENGLAND ENVIRONMENTAL CAREER FAJR '89 MAY 9, 10, and 11, 1989 Hynes Convention Center Boston, Massachusetts @ /\-. ~[17 Office of (C Computer Services ~ Newsletter· Subscriptions Available Name Oep·t. a ox# Add res's - HARNET/UC Newsletter is a. bi-monthly newsletter containing valuable information for the novice to the ex:pe~t computer user at Union College. The following areas are featured in every newsletter: OCS Information, Micro Corner, Administrative Happenings, ,, Announcements, Technicians Corner. ' ) ' , ' .

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLO·GY Chemistry Students Report On Research that both P+2 and P+4 prime only if p:3. ·1 ~:n '>CnJ!H\ maJoring In chcmt-.,try <Jt Lnion College gave rl'p()rt<., on their JOint rc,,·arc h wtth prc>k~\or\ at the [ 'n<krvr<t!luate Chcmi'>try <-iyrri[H>'>iurn ..,pomored hy the L.t\tL:rn ~ew York Seeton of tlH· ArrJcrican Chemical S1 )C Jet y Apn I 22 at Sk Hlmorc Collq~c. ~aratoga Sprin!\'· I :r11<1n harl the iar~c\l numlwr of <,lrJCicnh making '''\<';lrt h prr,,·nt;ttron<, among 1 lw \: '-.! 11dn1 t.., I rom ni nc l[)lkgc, · .... ho partrupatcd 1n the cc mfcrencc. The '>hHient\, the research toprc'> and the professors involve<! arc as follows: In the Organic II and Biophysical Section, William Jones of East Hampton, NY, \At tern pted S ynthcsis of 1 ,2- Bis-Orthotol yl- Cyclopentcne,\ Professor William B. Martin Jr.,; Ronald L. Willson of Hicksville, N.Y., \Synthesis and Characterization of Two A II- Ali ph a tic Sterically If indered E<;ters, Pr<lf Martin; Bcni Brian Wolf of Newburgh, NY, \A Mechanistic Stl!ldy of the SaponificatioH of Pivaloatc E\ter-;,\ Prof. Martin: and I) tc flanr Larof of Plattsburgh. N.Y .. 'Tyrocidine lntcractiofls with DNA,\ Prof. Janet Arukr\fm. In the Orga;.rnornctalli<: Sectron, f{ohin I .. Miller ol M<l<;<;apequa, N.Y., Ton'>tructron an<l Tc\ting of a Sy'>tcm f()r Flash Photochemrcd S.ttJdJc\,\ Prof. David M. Hayes. In the Physical/ Analytical/ Inorganic Section, Raymond Ashley of South Plainfield\ N.J., \An Attempt at Stcrcospeci fie Inorganic Synthesis,\ Prof. Charles F. Weick. In the Physical Organic, Bio- Organic and Biophysial Section, Kristine A. LoParo of Wayne, N.J, \Effects of Fluorinated Alcohols on the Spectral Properties of 2'- U/C IBM USERS GROUP MEETING Announcement THUI~SDAY, MAY 11, 1989 N non - 1 :00 p.m. COLLEGE CENTER RM. 409 \New Product Demonstration with Jay llurewitz of Egghead Software\ Desserts and Beverages provided The Department of Mathematics is conducting a reappointment review for Professor Michael Frame assistant professor of Mathematics. Any member of the college community who wishes to contribute written or oral testimony about Professor Frame's teaching, professional activites, or college service may contact Professor William Zwicker in Bailey Hall 200A (Ext. 6160). Acetonaphthor.c in NoR-Polar Solvents,\ Prof. Thorn as C. Werner: Lisa R t'litcosia of Greene, N.Y., \Determination of tlile Kcnetic and Thcrmodynam ic Properties 0f Bi s~:~lfatc Add it ion to 4 -Nitro a n d 4 · DJmethylaminocinll<.Jmaldehydc ,\ Prof. Leslie A. Hun; Diane A. Piasecki of Philadelphia, Pa., \Cl3-H-NMR Studres of the Bisulfite Addition Products <ll S 1m pic Carbonyl Compound~.\ Prof. llu II; and Leslie Shapiro of Scarsdale, N.Y., \Conforfmational Energy Calculations of Tyrocidine,\ Prof. Andc!'son. Congratulation~ to Rick Piedocca) who correctly solved last week's problem of the week. Wayne Lubin also submitted ,a correct solution to this problem. Correct solutions to the previous week's problem have been received from Jesse Hull, Peter Katz, and Peter Lambert. · Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. \' 11 a.m. and 2 p.m ... 4 p.m., Monday through Friday.-The first correct solution submiitted wm receive the weekly ten New England Environmental Career Fair '89 May 9, 10,11 HYN:ES CONVENTION CENTER BOSTON,MA It was announced today that plans are being finalized for the New England Environmental Career Fair '39 and information packages are now being mailed to companies wishing to exhibit and career applicants wanting to be prescreened. This Career Fair, being held in conjunction with the New England Environmental Exposition, will be held on· May 9, 10 1 and 11 at the Hynes Conven.tion Center in Boston. Katherine Honey, o-rganizer of the Career Fair, said that \Career Fair '89 will provide a unique opportunity for professionals and students of environmental disciplines to meet with. companies recruiting exclusively for positions in the environmental fields.\ She explained that individuals taking advantage of the prescreening service will receive a list of companies participating at Career Fair '89 that hire personnel with their quaJ.ifications. \We are very excited about this new service which will be invaluable to both companies and individuals and will make the best use of everyone's time;' Honey said. She added that prescreened applicants will be able to meet with company representatives at times prior to the general pubLic opening. Honey also announced that the Career Assistance Center will be providing a speaker's schedule, including presentations by the Environmental Internship Program and Massachusetts State Senator William Golden, and representatives of various public sector agencies will be available to discuss career opportunities in their agencies. In addition, the Massachusetts State Office of Minority and Women Business Assistance will be available on Tuesday, May 9th to meet with businesses wishing to do business with the state. Honey said that companies wishing to exhipit, and individuals wishing to be prescreened, should contact her office as soon as possible for application packets. Information is available from th.e New England Environmental Career Fair \89 by writing to them at P.O. Box 2179i Attleboro, MA 02703 or by calling 508/222-2154. CALENDAR EDITORS: NEW ENGLAND ENVIRONMENTAL CAREER FAIR '89 MAY9, 10, and 11,1989 Hynes Convention Center Boston, Massachusetts @ A/'-...~ ~p Office of (b Computer Services ~ Newsletter Subscriptions Available Name Dept. Box# Address G ARNET/UC Newsletter is a bi-monthly newsletter containing valuable information for the novice to the expert computer user at ·onion College. Tlte following areas are featured in every newsletter: OCS Inrormation, Miero Corner, Administrative Happenings, Announce111ents, Technicians Corner. ·I' .? .1 j ! I .I ,, I

CONCORDTENSIS May 4, 1989 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY SuperFund A Super Flop? By DON VALER:IO Copy Editor The large meadow outsjde Uniontown, Ohio, looks unremarkable on the surface. But beneath the field grass, tuft patches, and bramble shrubs is a: noxious stew of sewage, trash, waste, and chemicals. Over four years. ago, the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) targeted the sit.e for cleanup under its ambitious Superfund program because Congress re~ently decided that the project. is so ailing that the Super Fund budget should be drastically cut over the next .five years. harmful chemicals wer-e leaking into nearby water supplies. Today, however, the dump is still oozing to;xicity, and the townspeople are up,set and scared Since 1980, when Superfund was enacted, the program has managed to anger almost everyone it touches: homeowners around the dumps, budget analysts, environmentalists, and major companies, which Congress has designated to foot the clean-up bills. ln almost every respect, the program is not working. Congress recently decided that the project is so ailing that the Superfund budget should be drastically cut over the next five years; pendin.g a significant restructuring of the program. To date, the EPA has cleaned up only 43 hazardous waste dumps., spending an unbelievable $4 billion in the process. Superf\QPd was created. as a short-term effort to rid the nation of its toxic-waste sites. It has been realized, however, that the problem is too enormous for a quick solution. It takes up to nine years from the time a: site is listed until the cleanup be.gins, and cleanups typically take two to three years to complete. It has been estimated that 10,000 sites may eventually need work at a cost of more than $300 billion. The fund, supported by taxes on industries that generate waste, has been collecting about $1 bHlion a year. The Uniontown landltll is in the top 200 of the EPA's priority-ranked list of 1,173 sites. However, status as one of the nation'.s worst toxic dumps sites dbes not translate into federal action. In Uniontown, the EPA had .been sampling · the site's soil and finding noxious chemicals since September 1985, but it wasn't until a year later (hat the preference for spreading its fmite resources ()Ver many sites instead of thor()~ghly cleaning up. a few. Becamse of cost, the agency also ))refers to contain rather than destroy a dump's contaminants. FtOr example, in Uniontown, inci11eration would TOXIC ·wASTE· SITES PERWSTATE NEVADA 0 CALIFORNIA 85 NEW YORK 7!5 FLORIDA 45 MASSACHUSETTS 25 CONNECTICUT 1& NEW JERSEY O\V;€:t 100 TEXAS 5 VERMONT 5 ILLINOIS 35 PENNSYLKVANIA 95 MAINE 5 RHODE ISLAND 15 NEW HAPSHIRE 35 * US News & World ReplJl't agency began testing residential water supplies. The cleanup plan was finally released last December. The Uniontown plan reflects t~e EPA's longstanding take at least 15 years and cost $500 millio11, compared with $20 million for capping. Critics also blame the EPA for not consideri11g other and more innovative methods of \'Careers 'in So,eial Services~' disposal. However, even Su}Jcrfund's harshest .critics ack11owledge that the nation cannotafford to restore all contami11ated areas to their formerly }lri>tine state. ln theory, the U.S .. tJC>uld spend an infinite amount of time and money cleaning tip. 1'1'esently, the main underpinning seems to be a lack of o.-g.a11ization. Cleanup decisions are made in the EPA's ten regiomal offices; the agency's wa~ftington headquarters does ~ot even have the complete rec()r[Js of what .happens at each site. Cleanup requirements al:;o vary unpredictably from site to site. For example. tlle cleanup ' standard for be11Ze11e at one South Carolina site was seven times more stringe11t than the standard for benzell:e at a New Hampshire site. Finding a bala11c:e between environmental pootection and cost is complicat~ b:y the fact that scientists ()ften don't understand the complicated health effects C1\t!Sed by exposure to toxic Slibstances. It takes years of intensive studying and testing to determine the ()Ut<:ome of chemical exposure on people and the environment. The science of toxicol()gy is too weak right now to either support or refute IIlaJlY of the \ ·claims of chemical safety-. Ideas· for fixing the deteriorating Sup el'fu nd situation range from scra!)ping the project altogether to.Jrastic reorganization efforts. But most agree that ntlmerotJS changes are necessar:y. Fi:t:st, the EPA . should ev.alttatc hazardous sites quickly- im.<Jrder to decide which presc11t an immediate danger to Jl'llblic health or the envir<lnmetlt. Then, swift action sllould be taken at the worst sites Vtbile the best long term soliition is decided. The agency sh.owld also reward cooperative conLpa11ies, Ideas for fixing tllie deteriorating Supel' Ftind situation range fralll· scrapping the projed: altogether to drastitt reorganization ,efre~ .. ts. per.haps by sharing the cleanup costs. Finally, the EPA must reorganize its structure ill order to achieve centralized cOtntrol of projects. But the only real sdution may come with time, as tbe hazardous-waste wort force gains experie11ce and cleanup technologies get bettoer and cheaper. In the meantilll,c. more action must be taken ill order to prevent Supcrfu11d from turning into a supcrflop. An informal discussion with Melody Anderson Psychotherapist, co-founder and director · so RESOURCES Center for counseling and psychotherapy. Any student who is interested in a career in Social service is inVited to attend If you are uncertain about what to d<l aft~r graduation, and you ha\e an interest in psychology, here's your cllance to explore the opportunities avaHabie to you. The Psychology Cl~:~b and Psi Chi are sponsoring the third ar.nual career Day on May 6, 1989 from 12-5 pm in Hale House/Old ChapeL There will be repre~entatives from a variety of career fields and graduate school programs present to talk with students. Keynote Speaker Dr. Hobert A. Baron .from RPI, author of several books, inc.luding textbooks in lndustriai-Orgarlizational and Social Psycl1dogy, will give a personal account of the car~er choices he made to arrive at his present status as a psychology professor. Wednesday, May 10 4:30 Social Scle_nce Building Lounge Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. For further information contact Alonileen R. Loseke extension 6083. PSYCHOLOGY CLUB MANDATORY Meeting Wednesday, May 10, 1989@ 7:00pm Psychology Building Room 213 Elections will be held ·------ Please Attend!!! . munchies :provided

' ~ ! \ f ! l f l i I' I SuperFund A Super Flop? By DON VALERI() Copy Editor The large meadow Otltside Unientown, Ohio, 1<Joks uruemarkable on the surface. But beneath the field grass, tllft patches, and bramble sllrubs is a noxious stew of se~age, trash. waste, and chern icals. Over four years ago, the federal Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) targeted the site lor cleanup under its ambiti<>us Superfund program bccatLse Congress recently dec icled that the project is SCJ aiiUng that the Super Fund budgd should be drastically cut over the next five years. l:t takes up to ni:Ac years from the time a site is Hsted until the deanup begins, and cleanups typically take two to thFee years to complete. It has been estimated that 10,000 sites may eventually need work at a C()St of more than $300 billion. The fund, supported by taxes on industries that generate waste, has been collec~ing about $1 biHion a year. The Uniontown landfiB is in the teJl 200 of the EPA's priorit~-ranked list or 1 '173 sites. However, status as one of the nation's worst toxic dumps sites does not translate into federal action. In Uniontown, the EPA had been sampling the site's soil and findin.g noxious chemicals since September 1985. but it wasn't until a year later that the CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY preference for spreading its finite resources over !Tlany sites instead of thorougbly cleaning up a few. Because of cost, the agency also prefers to contain rather than destroy a dump's contaminants. For example, in Uniontown, incinerati<ln would disposal. claims of chemical safety. harmful chemicals were lcalcing into nearby water SUJlplies. Today, however, the durnp is stil'l oozing toxicity, and the townspeople are upset and scared Since 1980, when Supe:t:fund was enacted, the progr2rn has managed to anger aliTl<>St everyone it touches: homeowners around tile dllrnps. budget analysts. environmentalists, ancl. major companies, which Co11g:ress has designated to fo()t the clean-up bills. In almost every Fespect, the program is not working. Congress recently decided that the project is so aiHng that the Superfund budget should be drasticall)l cut over the next five years, pending a sign iificant restructuring of the )J'rogram. To date, the EPA has cleaned up only 43 hazardo11s waste dumps, spendi n.g an unbelievable $4 billi()n in the process. TOXIC WASTE SITES PER. STATE However, even Superfund's harshest critics acknowledge that the nation cannot afford to restore all contaminated areas to their formerly pristine state. In theory, the U.S. could spend an infinite amount of time and money cleaning up. fresently, the main underpinning seems to be a lack of organization. Cleanup decisions are made in the EPA's ten regional offices; the agency's Washington headquarters does not even have the complete records of what happens at each site. Cleanup requirements also vary unpredictably from site to site. For example, the cleanup standard for benzene at one South Carolina site was seven times more stringent than the standard for benzene at a New Hampshire site. Ideas for fixing the deteriorating Supe.rfund situation range from scrapping the project altogether to drastic reorganization efforts. But most agree that numerous changes arc necessary. First, the EPA should evaluate hazardous sites quickly in order to decide which present an immediate danger to public health or the environment. Then, swift action should be taken at the worst sites while the best long term solution is decided. The agency should also reward cooperative companies, NEVADA 0 CALIFORNIA 85 NEW YORK 75 FLORIDA 45 MASSACHUSETTS 25 Ideas for fixing the deteriorating Super Fund situation range from scrapping the pmject altogether to drastic reorganization efforts. CONNECTICU'l., 15 NEW JERSEY over 100 TEXAS 5 VERMONT 5 ILLINOIS 35 Finding a balance between environmental protection and cost is complicated by the fact that scientists <lften don't understand the complicated health effects caused by exposure to toxic stLbstances. It takes years of intensive studying and testing to determine the outcome of chemical exposure on people and the environment. The science of toxicology is too weak right now to either support or refute many of the perhaps by sharing the cleanup costs. Finally, the EPA must reorganize its structure in order to achieve centralized control of projects. PENNSYLKV ANIA 95 MAINE 5 RHODE ISLAND 15 NEW HAPSHIRE 35 But the only real solution may come with time, as the hazardous-waste work force gains experience and cleanup technologies get beLLer and cheaper. In the meantime, more action must be taken in order to prevent Superfund from turning into a superflop. * ris News & World Report Superfund was ct:ea.ted as a short-term effort tc riel th.e nation of its toxic-waste sites. It has been realized, h()wever, that the problem is too enormous for a quick solution. agency began testing residential water supplies. The cleanup plan was finally released last December. The Uniontown plan reflects the EPA's longstanding \Caree·rs in Social Services\ An informal discussion with Melody Anderson Psychotherapist, co-founder and director so RESOURCES Center for counseling and psychotherapy. Any student who is interested in a career in Social service is invited to attend Weda,esday, May 10 4:30 Social Science Building Lounge Sponsored by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology. For further information contact Alonileen R. Loseke extension 6083. take at least 1 S years and cost $500 million, compared with $20 million for capping. Critics also blame the EPA for not considering other and more innovative methods of If you are tJncertain about what to do after graduation, and you have an interest in psychology, here's your chance to explore the opportunities available to you. The Psychology Club and Psi Chi are sponsoring the third annual Career Day on May 6, 1989 from 12-5 pm in Hale House/Old Chapel. There will be representatives from a variety of career fi.elds and graduate school programs present to talk with students. Keynote Speaker Dr. Robert A. Baron from RPI, author of several books, including textbooks in Industrial-Organizational and Social Psychology, will give a personal account of the career choices he made to arrive at his present status as a psychology professor. PSYCHOLOGY CLUB MANDATORY Meeting Wednesday, May 10, 1989@ 7:00pm Psychology Building Room 213 Elections will be held------- Please Attend!!! munchies provided

Page 10 CONCORDIENSlS MDy 4, 1989 . . Formdqd at Union College 1877--- Administration Anti-Gr-eek? Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Phi Alpha, Delta Chi, Delta Psi Delta, D.elta Upsilon, Gamma Plti Beta, and Kappa Sigma are the six. out of the 2:3: Greek organizations recognized by the College witll'()ut on- campus housing. At this point in time most of them are on a waiting list to be granted on-campus housing. While two of these · organi:lati~ns had housing and lost it, the others have been waiting patiently at the pFomise of the next availabLe space. · While the interests of the student body are. ,tlte first consideration of the Office of Residence Life, one must examine their disposition towards the Greeks. Greeks are, after all, students entitled to on:-camp1.1s housing. In the action of removing some Gteelcs and not granting othets housing, tli.e message tllllt is sent out is a confused one. Is it that the Administration wishes to abolish the Greek system? ltte they slowly phasing out fraternities and sororities?. The College is bound in some ways to f<Jilow the policies and regulations it has made for itself. One must respect this. However, in eliminating one organization from on-campus housing and denying the rights of another to that space, the College illustrates more than the adherence to rules. The push for alternative housing such as living and learning centers, language houses, or other theme housing places the same-restrictions on the College's housing that Greek organizations do. Is the College truly being more receptive to the students' demands for housing? Is it that they are addressing tile needs of independents or are they finding a subtl'e way of filtering out the Greek presence on campus? Are they forcing off this campus a way of life that is most suitable to the students here? It seems as though a large minority is being ignored-· a minority that needs housing as much as the majority. Serious Consequences for a Serious Offense Pulling false fire alarms is no joke. No ()ne laughs, no one enjoys it, it is not funny. Yet afte1 numerous warnings and numerous fines people are still abusing pull boxes. We have all had to stand outside~ cold and uncomfortable, during false alarms. Some of us have hid in our rooms in order to avoid Schenectady's sub-zero temperatures. Others have sloQ/ly crawled out of their beds and then have taken the time to clothe themselves before leaving their dorm. These are the people who will bum when a real fire occurs. Tampering with fire safety equipment will not gain us any respect from the Administration. I.n. order for the student body to.be taken seriously by those who make the decisions at Union we n!;!!ed to act responsibly. Pulling false fire alarms is a serious offense, which could lead to serious consequen()es. These consequences not only will affect the prankster, but any victim in a real frre. We must not let our peers get away with this. They are risking our lives as well as their own. In addition, everyone is sick ,of standing ou.tside in the cold! Two students have already been suspended this term for acting irresponsibly. Let this be a. deterrent, act responsibly! L·ETTERS. Hostility Apparent In West Workers To the Editors: In response of ;the letter concerning the conditions in West Dining Hall, I belie:ve that the letter to the editor was totally unfo11nded and irrelevant. All the letter was was a complaint about tlleit job. While the workers at West definitely have legitimate gripes about their working conditions, they chose not .to respond at all t& Jessica'& just as legitimate complaints about the diner's eating conditions. It seems there is a b11ilt-in hostility of the students to the West workers and vice versa. These Maury Pauvich, Morton Downey-like attacks of the last series· of letters de not help- matters at all. They just make:. it worse. B11~. it l.s not even ,the workers who are at fault. tt s management. They have m> incentive to pre})are good. clem meals~ They are going tO get . our money wheth,er they SCl'Ie dog food or caviar. This is I1Gt to ·say that West serves ·d()g food, but it is certainly ll()t caviar. Maybe we should n()t require that freshmen pwcbase the nineteen meal plan. We all know that the huge majority of freshmen don't even eat fourteen meals per week. Ve also know that many of 11le freshmen (including myself) have achieved that mythical ''Fcesbman 15.\ Tnis is l\Ct ~11tire1y ·d~e to the amoant of . \leer they c0nsume. 'They are s;till eaiin.g~c jl!st not at West. If tlte Fteslunell: weren't r~uired tc e~t in West, management woald be forced to improve the food attd the service, Jessica was· pers()n;ally insulted by P\l'(Jple wbodaimed they were h11rt by ..the facts that she .p!>inted -out No, she does·not I(Jlow what it :i,s like to work in the kitchen l:lf West. aut she sllould not have to know. All slle asked f()r is good food and deanlineS1l~ This is not an CluilaBdjsh Tequest sm.cerely, AramFuchs · P'.S. The pla~tic gloves ate a start. Thatlk; you. -··-·~----------~~-----·------------------------------------------------- In Response to '~Cementing_Our Hatred\ To the Editors: I cannot help but be outraged, di.sgusted, and concerned by the brutal reality of rape and Mark Houghton~s portrayal of it However, I fail completely to see the logic of his vague and idealistic solution. Rape is a violent criminal act whose perpetrators cannot be characterized by any partic11lar socioeconomic status. A product of hate and malevolence, yes. Is that hate, as it seems he would have us believe, solely the product of the deranged criminal's social LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD ALL LBT1ERSTO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUB:rvtiTIED · TOTHE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M.·ONTHE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL ' NOTBE ACCEP1ED. and economic \opportu.nity\!\ I think not. h, for ex$11.ple, .the college student \V:lto participates in a gang m~ at a party driven by alack of •!clear and attainable visions of pe~tce and tranquilly?\ H-ardly. Is the average rapist likely tC> be. deterred by a better j ()b or a little ffi()fe welfare? Let•s be realistic. More to the point;we. I::J~tve not done too little, but too much to \advanc~ the opportunit'y\ of potential rapists witll ridiculously light penalties and sho::rt prison terms that msult the vi<:tim and mock the borror and violence '<>f the offemse. Ratber than take tire potential rapist -o11t to lunch and for .a walk thro11gh t.be flowers (as our .current penal code. seems to do); why don't we respond to rape with a level of ,pu11ishment which will both refle~ the severity -of the crime and either deter rapists or, at the very least, de11y them the opport11nity of repeating their crime. Marc Klrritz '92 I - un us be m: ad di se Cf at e4 Sl h: f( y ll' p p d t: c r t

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 198~ <!rJJltfllrbirnsis Follnded at llnion College 1877--- Administration Anti-Greek? Alpha Epsilon Pi, Alpha Phi Alpha, Delta Chi, Delta Psi Delta, I)elta Upsilon, Gamma Phi Beta, and Kappa Sigma are the six out of the 23 Greek organizations recognized by the College without on- campus housing. At this point in time most of them are on a waiting list to be granted on-campus housing. While two of these organizations had housing and lost it, the others have been waiting patiently at ilie promise of the next available space. While the interests of the student body are the first consideration of the Office of Residet1ce Life, one must examine their disposition towards the Greeks. Greeks are, after all, students entitled to on-campus housing. In the action of removing some Greeks and not granting others housing, the message that is sent out is a coafused one. Is it that the Administration wishes to abolish the Greek system? Are they slowly phasing out fraternities and sororities? The College is bound in some ways to follow the policies and regulations it has made for itself. One must respect this. However, in eliminating one organization from on-campus housing and denying the rights of another to that space, the College illustrates more than the adherence to rules. The push for alternative housing such as living and learning centers, language houses, or other theme housing places the same restrictions on the College's housing that Greek organizations do. Is the College truly being more receptive to the students' demands for housing? Is it that they are addressing the needs of independents or are they finding a subtle way of filtering out the Greek presence on campus? Are they forcing off this campus a way of life that is most suitable to the students here? It seems as though a large minority is being ignored-a minority that needs housing as much as the majority. Serious Consequences for a Serious Offense Pulling false fire alarms is no joke. No one laughs, no one enjoys it, it is not funny. Yet after numerous warnings and numerous fines people are still abusing pull boxes. We have all had to stand outside, cold and uncomfortable, during false alarms. Some of us have hid in our rooms in order to avoid Schenectady's sub-zero temperatures. Others have slowly crawled out of their beds and then have taken the time to clothe themselves before leaving their dorm. These are the people who will burn when a real fire occurs. Tampering with fire safety equipment will not gain us any respect from the Administration. In order for the student body to be taken seriously by those who make the decisions at Union we need to act responsibly. Pulling false fire alanns is a serious offense, which could lead to serious consequences. These consequences not only will affect the prankster, but any victim in a real ftre. We must not let our peers get away with this. They are risking our lives as well as their own. In addition, everyone is sick of standing outside in the cold! Two students have already been suspended this term for acting irresponsibly. Let this be a deterrent, act responsibly! Hostility Apparent In West Workers · To the Editors: In response of the letter concerning the conditiOE!; in West Dining Hall, I beli-eve that the letter to the editor -was totally unf&unded and irrelevant All the letter -was was a complaint about ~tlleir job. While the workers at West def1nitely have legitiin!tte gripes about their working conditions, th.ey chose tl()t to respond at aU to Jessica\s. just as legitimate complaints aro11t tlle diner's eating conditi()n:s. It seems there is a built-in hostility of the students t() the West workers and vice -versa.. These Maury Pauvich, M(}Jton Downey-like attacks of tlu~ last series of letters do not help matters at all. They just mak.e it worse. But, it is not even tile workers who are at fault. It is management. They have rlo incentive to prepare good, clean meals. They .me going to get our money whether they serve dog food or caviar. This is n()t to say that West serves dog food, but it is certainly D()t caviar. Maybe we should 1wt require that freshmen purcha..se the nineteen meal plan. We all lrnow that the huge majority of freshmen don't even eat fourteen meals per week. We also know that many of the freshmen (including myself} llave achieved that mythical \Freshman 15.\ 1'nis is not entirely liiJe to the amount of beer they consume. They are still eating, just not at West If the Freshmen weren't required to eat in West, management would be forced to improve the food and the service. Jessica was personally insulted by people who claimed they were hurt by the facts that sh.e pointed -out. No, she does not know what it is like to work in the kitcllen of West. But she should not have to know. All she asked. for is good food and cleanli!le-ss. This is not an ouliland:ish request Sincerely, Aram Fuchs P.S. Tile plastic gloves are a start. Thank you. In Response to \C'ementing_ Our Hatred\ To the Editors: I cannot help b11.t be outraged, disgusted, and concerned by the brutal reality of rape and Mark Hou~ht(>)n•s portrayal of it. However., I fail completely t() see the l~gic of his vague and idealistic solution. Rape is a violent cTiminal act whose perpetrators c:aDn()t be characterized by any particular socioecaiu>mic status. A product of hat.e and malevolence, yes. Is tltat hate, as it seems he would llave 11s believe, solei y the product of the deranged criminal's sucial LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARilY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIJI BOARD ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYFED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUB:MI1TED TOTIIE CONCORDIENSlS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETfERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEP1ED. and economic \o:pportunity?\ I think not. Is, f()r example, the college student who participates in a gang raJle at a party driven by a lack of '\clear and attainable visions of IJeace and tranquilty?\ Hardly. Is the average rapist likely to be deterred by a be~ter jol> or a little more welfare? Let's be realistic. More to the -po}nt. we !lave not done too little, but too much to \advance the opportunity\ of potential rapists with ridiculously light penalties and short prison terms tllat insult the victim and mock the h<>rror and violence of the Dffense. Rather than take the p()tential rapist out to lunch and for a walk through the flowers (as our current penal C()de seems to do), why don't we. respond to rape with a level of ~unishment which will both reflect the severity of the crime .and either deter rapists or. at the very least, deny them the opportunity of repeating their crime. Marc Kuritz '92 - - L - 1 I um us be( my ad< dirl see ca abc aw an ou the C3l ed sa ha re ye m; pi p~ dt til C( rn tt w rr p

CONCORDIENSlS May 4, 1989 Page ll LETTERS Be Aware, Drink With Care Prisoners For Life To the Editors: I would like to bri11g, up an unsettling issue which affects us all,. but has conv~niently been neglected among the myriad of controversial matters address«~ on campus~ To be direct, the amoung of people I see drinking and driving on this campus is absolutely abominable. every single one. That same speaker -also told us that almost 90% of the drurtk driving accidents which occur happen withi11 one mile of the victim's home. One inil~ •. That means everyone who lives off campus and parks up in one of Ute lots because it's \easier\ isn't somehow magi~y exempt because they ate only traveli1ng a mile at the ertdofthe evening. giving some answers. Therefore I ask, \What can be done?\ First of all, waiting twenty or even forty-five minutes for .security isn't such an incredible inconvenience when you weigh the odds. Enough said. Alsa, if the person is insisting that they can drive, an entire car load of people saying that they would \rather walk\ is. often effective. To the Editors: A couple of months ago, a very wonderful thing happened on the Union College campus. Students, faculty:, and staff united to help raise over $.5,000 for the work of the American Cancer Society ~turing the Tri-Delta Jail 'N' Bail.·We would like to thank everyone for their efforts. Those who gave their time to be jailed, those who gave money sacrificed two precious commodities. They are to be commended. We would like to give an exttea sepcial thank- you to the women ofTri-Delta. They .gave so much of themselves to make the Jail 'M' Bail a success. We appreciate their hard work and dedication. We l()Ok forward to working again with the fine people of Union College. Sincerely, The Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society In case everyone· wasn't aware, drunk driving accidents are one ofthe leading ki1lers in om countty for people under the age. of 25. Clearly the campus. population hasn't been educated 0n this topic. with the same de.gree of rigor that I have. Regardless, I can still remember back to freshman year in high s¢booi when a man came In and showed us pictures of wbat happens to people when they ·get into drunk driving accidents. At the time, I thought, \This is completely inappropriate! This man has no right to show us these slides!\ How wrong I was. Those photographs of mangled bodies served their purpese. I can still visualize Top focus on another .point, I feel that .the people who actually get into these cars are equally guilty. I see being in college as an opportunity to take responsibility for your own actions and bear their consequences. Da the people who drive with their drunk friends think that they are in some way special; that they . won't get into an accident? Given even the few statistics listed this is clearly a fallacy. People who allow their friends to drive drunk because it's \easier\ ~ 1 t possibly be \real\ friends as my definition of a \real\ friend is one who will look out for the other. In a<ldition, everyone knows about the \designated driver\ idea. However, it only works if one person doesn't drink:. I ' guess the bottom line here is that we all must take ' responsibility for our own actions. IFC Seeks to Coexist With Independents It would be hypocritical of me to just accuse without This is not intended to be an accusatory article. Rather, its purpose is to make you a little more aware. There is n() grey in tbis issue. Not only is DW1 against that. law, but every time you drive drunk or you get into a car with a drunk driver, you are putting youtself at risk. Please realize this befol\e you make yourself, or somebody else, a statistic. Erica Frank Take Notice, Union Students To the Editors: Monday, May 8 is the deadline for submitting nominating petitions for · positions on the 1989~90 Student Forum. As stated in the student constitution, students elected to Student Forum positions will take on th·e continuing \ ... responsibility for promoting the student body of. Union College. Student Forum is the principal governing body of the Student Government Association (SGA) of which all students are members. These elected officials administer the .student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and. through student membership on College committees. advise the College Administration on issues pertaining to the student body ... The purpose.;. is to consider issues artd to review, :recommen,d, or formulate policies ... in areas ... involving the student body. The SGA. .. also seeks to provide extended channels of communication. increased areas of cooperation, and a greater acceptance of shm:ed responsibility between ~ faculty, administration. and student l)ody in matters of general and academic interests.\ The President of the SGA is the chair of all Student Forum meetings and serves as the liaison between the Student Forum and the administration of the College. The Vice President· for A d m i n i s t r a t i o n is responsible for the general administration of student activities and organizations. The Vice President for Finance is responsible for the annual budgeting and monthly allditing. of student activities and organizations. The Vice President ·fol' Academics will serve as an active liaison between the Forum and the Academic Affairs Council. The junior class representative to the Board of Trustees represents the SGA in all functions of t:be Board of Trustees for a two-year period. 0 ll§ Students are elected to these positi0ns by the entire student body. Three senior, junior, and sophomore class representatives are elected by their respective classes and will serve on the Student Affairs Council, Committee on Committees, and Finance Committee. All elected representatives begin their tenn of <>ffice the last day of classes spring term. A position on Student Forum c3:n provide the opportunity to work with a diverse group of students. to remain informed and involved in issues concerning the c6llege, and to work with various members of the facnlty and administration. Any student intere$ted in the Student Forum is urged to pick up a petition in the Student Activities Offices today. TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS, this is your chance! Resepctf ally, The 1988-89 Student Forum Elections Board gvTJblce cdlra1y ~Ihle tra§lk g1rea1L vg <CellelhnrtaJ.tte md IHion01r The N(())tt Memoria] 0 Jl§ M&y 18 is trlhle dlSly; JRevitaJlilztaJ.U«llJrn~ tfule ~asJlc The 1875 Initiative To the Editors: Recently, the brothers of the Delta Chi Fraternity were notifed that due to low occupancy over the past few years, they would no longer be allowed to occupy cooperative on-campus housing. While this decision on the part of the Administration must be respected, it brings to light several problems which need further investigation. It is for this reason, that we, the InterFraternity Council of the College write today. The first problem to surface following -the removal of Delta Chi is that of the future residents of Raymond House. It has been proposed that the Delta Chi house be used for independent housing, removing yet another greek organization from the Union campus. It would seem that if .the College had designated a particular area for greek housing, the building would remain classified as greek, especially in light of the fact that there is a waiting list of greek organizations which have requested such accommodations. Since 1984, three organizations, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Gamma Phi Beta, and Alpha Phi Alpha have patiently awaited on-campus group housing. In 1987, when the Delta Upsilon Fraternity was asked to vacate Potter House, they were told that after a period of two years, they would be able to once again apply for group housing. Delta Upsilon has taken such steps, adding their name to the growing list of greeks waiting for housing. One of Union's finest contributions to the collegiate system was the establishment of the fraternity system with the introduction of the Union Triad over 150 years ago. Fraternities have provided millions of students with the ability to join organizations which help the student mature and learn responsibility. Fraternities provide a student with the opportunity to make and maintain close frindships which last a lifetime. As well, fraternities provide for the ! . community; each chapter hosts , annual philanthropy drives, -the proceeds of which help the likes of the American Heart Foundation 1 societies for the disabled and th.e American Cancer Society. Three times each year; fraternities are called upon by the American Red Cross to find donors for their frequent blood drives. Finally, fraternities provide much ofthe social life eri most campuses. 'The current trend here at Union College seems to be the phasing out of on-campus fraternities. It would seem a . shame to eliminate one of the finest traditions begun here at our college. _ The argument has been made that in making housing decisions, the Office of Residence Life must take into consideration the fact that greek organizations are in essence, social organizations, and therefore priority must be given to those who choose to stay independent. Although the argument is valid, one must notice that currently, 46% of our student body is involved with some greek organization. It would seem that an organization, representative of almost half the student body sheuld receive equal consideration in such decisions. When Union College was chartered in 1795, the student body consisted of only men; women were not admitted until 1970. This is reflected by the presence of only four sororities on our campus. It would seem logical ihat the College would take all possible steps to insure equal opportunities for both men and women here at Union. This fact heightens Gamma Phi Beta's right to Raymond House. It is recognized that if the Office of Residence Life decides that Raymond House shall be re-classified as independent or theme housing, the greek organizations here will have no other recourse than to abide by that decision. However, it must also be recognized that by systematically removing the greek system from the Union College campus, the Administration will be slowly dismantling one of the finest traditions begun by our college. And if this is the case, we would like an explanation as to the reasons for this abomination. Respectfully submitted, The InterFraternity Council

CONCORDIENSJS May 4, 1989 Page 11 LETTER,S Be Aware, Drink With Care To the Editors: I would like to bring up an unsettling issue which affects us al:l, but has conveniently been neglected among the myriad of controversial matters addressed on campus. To be direct, the amoung of people I see drinking and driving on this campus is absolutely abominable. In case everyone wasn't aware, drunk driving accidents are one of the leading killers in our country for people under the age of 25. Clearly the campus population hasn't been educated on this topic with the same degree of rigor that I have. Regardless, I can still remember back to freshman year in high school when a man came in and showed us pictures of what happens to people when they get into drunk driving accidents. At the time, I thought, \This is completely inapptopriate! This man has no right to show us these sli:des!\ How wrong I was. Those photographs of mangled bodies served their purpose. I can still visualize every single one. That same speaker also told us that almost 90% {)f the drunk driving accidents which occur happen within one mile of the victim's home. One mile. That means everyone who lives off campus and parks up in one of me lots because it's \easier\ isn't somehow magically exempt because they ate only travelilng a mile at the end of the evenillg. Top focus on another point, I feel that the people who actually get into these cars are equally guilty. I see being in college as an opportunity to take resp<>nsibility f<>r your own actions and bear their consequences. Do the people who drive with their drunk friends th.ink that they are in some way special; that they . won't get into an accident? Given even the few statistics listed this is clearly a fallacy. People wl!o allow their friends to drive drunk because it's \easier\ can't possibly be \real\ friends as my definition of a \real\ friend is one who will look out for the other. It would be hypocritical of me to just accuse without giving so1ne answers. Therefore I ask, \What can be done?\ First of all, waiting twenty or e\en forty-five minutes for security isn't such an incredible inconvenience when you weigh the odds. Enough said'. Also, if the person is inshting that they can drive, an ·elltire car load of people saying that they would \rather walk\ is often effective. In adtHtion, everyol'le knows about the \designated driver\ idea. However, it only works if one person .doesn't drink. I guess the bottom line here is that we an must take responsibility for our own actions. This is not intended to be an accusatory ar1icle. Rather, its purpose is tl> make you a little more aware. There is no grey in this issue. Not only is DWI against that law, but every time you drive drunk or you get into a car wi1h a drunk driver, you are putting yourself at risk. Please realize tllis befare you make yourself, or somebody else, a statistic. Erica Frank Take Notice, Union Students To the Editors: Monday, May 8 is the deadline for submitting nominating petitions for positions on the 1989-90 Student Forum. As stated in the student constitution, students elected to Student Forum positions will take on the continuing \ responsibility for promoting the student body of Union College. Student Forum is the principal governing body of the Student Government Association (SGA) of which all students are members. These elected officials administer the student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and. through student membership on College committees, advise the College Administration on issues pertaining to the student body... The purpose... is to consider issues and to review, recommend, or formulate policies ... in areas ... involving the student body. The SGA ... also seeks to provide extended channels of communication, incFeased areas of cooperation, and a greater acceptance of shared responsibility between faculty, administration, and student body in matters of general and academic interests.\ The President of the SGA is the chair of all Student Forum meetings and serves as the liaison between the Student Forum and the administration of the College. Tile Vice President for A d m i n i s t r a t i o n is responsible for tbe general administration of student activities and organizations. The Vice President for Finan£e is responsible for the annual budgeting and monthly auditing of student activities and organizations. The Vice President for Academics will serve as an active liaison between the Forum and the Academic Affairs Council. The junior class representative to the Board of Trustees represents the SGA in all functions of the Board of Trustees for a two-year period. 0 ll§ Students are elected to these positions by the entire student body. Three senior, junior, and so.pllomore class representatives are elected by their res]Jective classes and will serve on the Student Affairs Co11ncil, Committee on Committees, and Finance Committee. All elected representatives begin their term of office the last day of classes spring term. A position on Student Forum can provide the opportunity to work with a diverse grQup of students, to remain infQrmed and involved in issues concerning the college, and to work with various members of the faculty and administration. Any student interested in the Student Forum is urged to pick up a petition in the Student Activities Offices today. TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS, this is your chance! Resepctfull y, The 1988-89 Student Forum Elections Board 0 ]§) grrea~o Q~ C e le1bnr101 te oo dl 1HI 0Iril «J)Jr The N (Q)t~ MemorfuaR Slmdl il trs ~1radlil ~iioiDls 0 M~y 18 is trlble <dl<a1y; JRevntratliLzaJ.trii(()n 9 ~he ~?illskc The 1875 Initiative Prisoners For Life To the Editors: A couple of m()llths ago, a very wonderful thiitg llappened on the Union College campus. Students, faculty, ;and staff united to helf nise over $5,000 for the \W<()I'k of the American Cartcer Society during the Tri-Delta Jail 'N' Bail. We would iil\e to thank everyone for tlleir efforts. Those who gave tlleir time to be jailed, those wl1o gave money .sacrificed two precious commodities. 1hey are to be commended. We would like to give an extrea sepcial thank- yoll to the women ofTri- Delta. They gave so mucb of themselves to make the Jail 'M' Bail a success. We appreciate their hard W<lrk and dedication. We look forward to working again with tbe fine people of URion College. Sincerely, The Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society IFC Seeks to Coexist With Independents To the Editors: Recently, the llro:tllers of lhe Delta Chi FI~tern ity were notifed that d1t1e to low occupancy over ttle past few years, they wo11ld 110 longer be allowed to occul)~ cooperative on-campus hell~ing. While this decision 011 lfle part of the Administrati(} n must be respected, it b>ri11gs to light several problellls which need further investigatiun. It is for this reason, that we, the InterFraternit~ Council of the College write t~y. The first pr<Jbl~rn to surface following the removal of Delta Chi is that ~f the future residents of Raymond House. It has been pr()pDsed that the Delta Chi hou:se be used for independent ho1.1sing, removing yet another gre-ek organization from the Uni()n campus. It would seem tll!lt if the College had designated a p.articular area for greek housi11g, tile building would remain classified as greek, especi!lll y iu light of the fact that theFe is Cl waiting list of greek orgarJizCttions which have requested such accommodati<JES. Since 1984, three organ:iz:alli<Jns, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Gctmllla Phi Beta, and Alpha Phi Alpha have patiently awaite<l on-campus group housing_ Ia 1987, when the Delta Upsil()n Fraternity was asked to- v;acate Potter House, they were told that after . a period of two :years, they would be able to once again apply for gr()UJl h-ousing. Delta U:psilon has talce11 such steps, adding their n;ame to the growing list of greeks waiting for housing. One of U11ion 's finest contributions utile collegiate system was the establishment of the fraterlllity system with the introducti<J£1 of the Union Triad over 150 years ago. Fraternities lave provided millions of sttldents with the ability to join <Organizations which help tile s.tudent mature and learn rc:sponsibility. Fraternities ])rovide a student with the Oj)purtunity to make and maintain clcse frindships which last a [ifetime. As well, ' fraternities J)ro-v ide for the : community; ac'h chapter hosts , annual philantllropy drives, the proceeds of \Which help the likes of tile American Heart Foundation, ~o-cieties for the disabled and the American Cancer Society. Three times eacll year, fraternities ru:e called upon by the America11 Red Cress to find donors for their freqllent blood drives. Fin;ally, fraternities provide m11cb of the social life mi most campuses. The current trend here at Union College seems to te the phasing out of on-campus fraternities. It would seem a shame to eliminate one of the finest traditions begun heFC at our college. The argument has been made that in making housing decisions, the Office of Residence Life must take into consideration the fact that greek organizations are in essence, social organizations, and therefore priority most be given to those who choose to stay independent. Although the argument is valid, one must notice that currently, 46% of our student body is involved with some greek organization. It would seem that an organization, representative of alrnost half the student body sllould receive equal consideration in such decisions. When Union College was cllartered in 179 5, the student body consisted of only men; women were not admitted until 1970. This is reflected by the presence of only fo11r sororities on our campus. It wou Id seem logical that the College would take all possible steps w insure equal opportunities f<Jr both men and women here at Union. This fact heightens Gamma Phi Beta's right to Raymond H()use. [t is recognized tltat if the Office of Residence Life decides that Raymond House sllall be re-classified as independent or tlleme housing, the greek organizations here wi!I have no other recourse than to abide by tbat decision. However, it must also be recognized that by systematically removing the greek system from the Union College campus, the Administration will be slowly dismantling one of the finest traditions begun by our college. And if this is the case, we would like an ex.p lanation as to the reasons for this abomination. Respectfully submitted, The InterFraternity Council C. Demereski &retftM..~ m,(}f'lit,b (518) 374~4000 ''!i»pNHS If w1tll Flowers\ 96 J~y S-tre~t N\AfURESCAPi PESlGNS tC~r- \1 J!y ~ o.l~rty St.l · Sc:hwettad-y. N. Y. 1~305

Page 12 CLVB NEWS CONCORDIENSIS M4l)' 4, 1989 Paid training, benefits, work hrs. 2-10 p.m. Call462~5526. .(Looking to sublet an apartment. 2-3 person, located -----------on University. End of J1;1ne to end of August. Call Gretchen or Missa at 386-4427. Afforda:ble TW() Pt;!rSOil Townhouse for summer sublet. ---campU[s-P1v~stant-- MinistJ::v --=.-nTbTe-itii<r;-c-a;tillii\e'S frurn 11:30-12:45 on Thurs- ~ys afternoons in mom 205 of tile College Center. We are now starting a Stuily ·qf \Peace making.\ Pleasebring lunch. -A Plateful <lf Questions discussion series wiil be held Gil Tuesdays from 12:00-12:45 in the fourth flo()t lounge of the College Ceater. P1ease h:ri.nglunch. -The Food Pa.ntry at First Methodist on St!\te St. needs vn lunteers for Monday, Wednesday, or Ftiooy mornings from 9-12. For more infor- mation, please call 374-2683 or contact the PJ:()testant office at 370-6618. Newman Club News -------~------------- Merton tapes-Friday, May 5tb at Noon. A1l are welcome to bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404:B. Father Jolm Jlertolucci- S unday, May 7th at J olln the Evangelist Church.. A reception will follow in lh.e Rectory. All are welcome. Monday Nigllt SuJ>per- May 8th at 5 p.m. in CC203 either use y<mr meal plan or bring your <lwn and join Profes$or Bob Schaefer, Chemistry for C()nversation and an informal presentation on \Choosing a C:areer Based on Christian Values.\ All are welcome. Eucharistic Ministers-A workshop f<Jr those interested in becoming E uc:haristic Ministers will· be given by Sr. Joan, Thursday, May 25th in - the Rectory from 7-9 p.m. Union stu<le11ts may contact Sr. Joan to register. On Sunday, May 28th at all the Masses for the Feast of C<lrpus Christi all old and new Eucharistic Ministers will be commissioned for '89-'90. Catholic \Video Series- Tuesdays fr()m 4:30 - 5:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students call be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kin<lergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Homiston 372-9231. Folk GrotJp-All singers and musici<tns interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:~0 p.m. in the church to rehearse. CLASSlFIEDS L.Ook:fnito-sub\fet_in_Fiin 1989. Female only. Call Christine or Liz 386-415 5. Lookill~ for female to share small apartment on upper east side <>f Manhattan June lst. If illterested, call Julie. Daytime 212-303-5103 - Evenings 212-772-7066. Attent·ion - Government Homes from $1 (U-repair), Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 ext. GH7090. ' Attention · Government seized vehicles frc;>m $100~ Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes. Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602~838-8885 ext. A7090~ \Attention Hiring\ Government jobs, your area. Many immediate openings · without waiting list er test. $17,840-$69.485. Call 1-602· • 838-8885 exL R 7090. Hous·esitter ayaiJable · May-August Professional. For il).fmmation call 346-2034. · Ask for Joan. Duplex Van Vranken Ave., near campus, 3 BR up, 3 down. Nice, year· lease, security. Available May '89. 456-3548. Looking for a fraternity, sorority, or student organization that would like to make $500-$1,000 for a week • on campus marketing the project. Must be organized, 'hard working. Call Jill or Corineat 1-800-592~2121. _•100 yds. from carnpus •fully furnished •d'ishwasher a11d , many appliances included. •.private parking lot md laundry facilities __ •very safe area, quiet and clean. U interested please call Brian and Marty at 374-2939. Student Off C.ampus Jds . · For summer employment ~ Mechanical Engineering stud{mts that have had courses · in materials & fi11ite element analysis - hrs. &-5 Salary . depends on experience. Contact . Gary S t Onge, In-Circuit Test, Clifton park, 877-7045. Retail Sales--Bath ti qu.e Store, Rotterdam Square Mall. Work schedule, all different shifts available Mon.-Sun. Fot further info calli 374-2993 or apply in person. Student need~ll !<> do yard work and other odd jobs · $8.00/hr. Location Niskay1:1na, · off Rosendale 'Road. Please contact 377-9043. Part-time he Jp - Light mechanical, ti£e chanj!;ing, clean-up etc. Me!l.··Sat_ no evenings, hours t() be arrwig;ec!. Contact Cliff nu<lley, Goodyear, State Street, 374- 3~26 ..... ~9~lti~J1S~. ~yailabl~ immediately. Loolu.ng -to sablet. 3 -4- .. person apartment . for the summer. Great location, near campus. If fnterested please call Lisa, Kristen, or Ann at 3 74~ 8984. ·PERSONALS FOUND - Jean & Leather jacket left at Psi U this }last weekend. Cal13864306. Great retreat. Meg. FOR SALE: Whistler Spectrum 2 Radar Detector. Rated as one ·Of the best by Road and Track. Must seil due to financial straits. No reasonable offer will be refused. Call 386-4132, ask for Doug. Love, The sistel\S of Delta G:amma It's Coming! ! ! Sherri, SUMMER JOBS - Spend your summer helping proteck · NY's Environmental future. The environmental planning lobby i's now filling summer positions. Earning $200-$500 · a week while working to pass vital environmental legislation. Don't forget ab<Jut our date and I think we shoul<l show everyone how well we sing Sunday night. Liz. Jim, You may not be a pledge anymore ... but you're stiil an -ss. ! 'l I I ' 34'.6•9034 HOURS: tAon. thurSlln. 3:30 to 11:00 PM Sunday 2 to 7 PM BUFFALO STYLE WINGS (with FREE talers) 10 ................ , .................. 3.79 60 ................................. 19.99 1s .................................. 5. 79 oo ................................ Zl.f:B 30 ................ , ....... ; ....... 11.49 100 ................................ 34.49. 50 ................................. 1-7 .29 200 .................................. 67.99 Sauces: Batbeque, Louisiana Mild, Medium, Hot, Sicilian Mild, Medium Hot ~-----------KOOPON----~------~ ·10 FREE WINGS : When You Purchase 50 or More ' ' ' . l ·--~-~----~-KOOPON-----------~ Free delivery for orders of $10 or rn.ore Deliveries on the hour CAM·PUS· NEW·s Gretch & Missa - I'm having nightmares about PANELING! . . Hey BigWilJ- Torp, It has really been a hellish five weeks for me since g~ttipg back. Thanks for 'bemg there, You're a great freind. Chris. · · To lan, Steve, Brett, & Lauri, Congmts on a great job! The Senior Ball was a night to remember! Beth, Robin & v ai . GAPO Woman hops a plane to • Schenectady without · · · · speedstick, razor or extJ:a cloili,ing. Beware! · Laura · . ' . ' ' Thanks for the cards and encourag~ment. You're one in a million.· cv We know where the mugs are! Do you??? C'mon Tanny.:.get those dancing shoes on for $unday night. Pre-party G & T's are required. Wear your earring or else! I want to scam on your red stubble! Tom Falati- -J We want your body you hunk! -3rd Floor Richmond Willie, Great to have you back (germs anoall!) xxooFIFl Cords- We love you no matter what you major in!!! Love; Kaz, )ell, Beth, Jul, Meg & Kim. Beth, Our phone is broken, we think the problem stems trom the· · phone jack. -Love, Kaz, Meg & Jen & Kim & Julie. Ellen., 14 hours in the car just wasn't enough. Next time round trip to Florida. Thanks for an .awesome time. Rob ~=----,.._.· ... • 1°6\~~~~~~~ _.,.....,...... BRUNG . · . ~~ Schenectady's unique gourmet shco ~ . andrest~uran.tinvitesyout?e~t?Y.a . ViSA I s~rumot1ous Sur.day Bruncn w1, ~ ;,;:; . MC th1s weekend and next weekenc D-:: 1· ·'6ririg ymir tam. nv:vou.r frieri:Js 1 .•·• · · ~\j. . ·. · Did you know that •,ye 'r'3 . · · ccen for Breakfa ;t tvlr;,\':c::J'! . ·- ~. through Sa.turda·;s. too? \ . ~ We~~~~r; 0 ~~7 a.m. -lcin ~ ... :lt T 1624UPPER Union.·· . .,.~ ~TOQTtl~ch~nectady N@2A

<I I J ~ r- !• QJ: CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 Page 13 CAMPUS NEWS Scott, PERSONALS . Now am I officially in ROTC ----------· 1: after being ~ttack & mauled in Grosser than Gross .• We haven't gone, to class, work or/even showered, for that matter, in weeks! I'm havmg the time of my life. Love, Grosser than Ever. Jill, < Let's go to Coco!s, but this time together! Love, Becky. Janey B.- We love you!!.! Becky& Jill Julie-. Well, the 3 letter word still doesn't know but the 41etter word might know and all I know is that I don't know. · Chi Psi's parking lot by three rai!d9m soliders? Linlls, , HePGeda year so he's only · one. year younger. So don't . W()I:Ty. •. Jen F: · Let yow- chest fly freely the wh()le highway enjoyed the Sb()W, To the Infamous \10\ - We horrified SDT and the rest of tile Syracuse campus. They needed to learn how -to party. Let's hit Cornell next weekend. , · Feeley- Is tiJat 5 1/2 for one or both combined? We must ... we must .•. SOT Caravan Ken P., I am glad you are having fun in Germany. Miss you a lot. Can't wait to see you soon. Rob Laksh, Washington was a blast Keep eating - you have to feed junior. Don't shake hands with strange men. Thanks for always being when I need yQu. Becky, I love you. Dinner soon? Woodly too! Rob Love, Jill ll21tiU~•()~ l\Vlfti\IIJ• .. JI) ·~sg, Jl1u~~ 9. -11()-11 ·~ li~S9• Alumni Affal:rs · lamo11t House (518) 370-6168 $N£ED EXTRA CASH?!$ We are looking for students who want to earn S()me fun, easy, money! Students who would like to work on ReUni()n/ Commencement Weekend (June 9 & 10 }, please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. Lit, I appreciate you tons & tons! You are the bestest! Ox- If we give you boxers, will you do naked beer runs? Syracuse Phi Delt. Bu,rlap-_ Now that the real spring term is upon us - you deserve only the best - and it is yet to come! Love, Fox · Stanley- · I challenge you to a drinkoff this weekend. How many cases? Fox ROADTR.IP TO SYRACUSE WITH SDT TillS FRIDAY!!! Hey Union- Marine tenn abroad needs mail! We dori't even get Concordy - So write us. Gimpy. Wally & Jess - Let's go back to tb.e PKA house, but next time bring something home that fits in the .car! You guys are awesome! LF, KC, MF, GP, LD Sorry you gays missed out on all the gossip - I guess the Air Force guy story will hve to BLOOM COUNTY Berke Breathed VIIIAT StiOVttJ .· .! f?O.~ ' ~' ' ·~'''\. ,-J,, .. ~ tfo .. ,,, \ YeP. He~ HIW!Nb rJN€ OF 7!1(}5/i N~f< PelffH I OU1-QF-1Jt)f7Y &XPGf?f&NC&~ / \\ walt until June.- KT :Wally and Krane, We knew you guys were kleptos, but did you have to ' resort to men's underwear? Kath, ·Thanks for ·the bed to sleep in, and the company, but really, I could have taken the floor. KT · Manda(Stanley), · My initial impression of you was on the nose, you are definitely anally fixated. Keep peeling roadside pal. I love you, Jen Hi Barney! Hi Kristen! Hi Yak! To The Isuzu Trooper - Let's ask Freud - Is it nudity or repression? The Wallace Wagon Wanted: One partner for the Norfork County Jugglers, preferably not from Canton and accustomed to sunroof etiquette. Hey Buddy. 0 for 4 at Jungle Love? Your little brother S. Frasier, I wanted to do my laundry but I was scared to death to go in. Grosser than Gross, Have you gone to'work or gone to class? Do you even know what your Professor looks like? Take a shower. Cream Puff, We loved that wicker chick! We'll do it again soon! Love, The Love Birds Woody, Doggie, Doggie, Doggie! Please? Kill, My checkbook is ready and waiting, any day now .•. Love, Your ex-roomie Wendy, What Motrin's contagious? Bye-Bye, Becky Rob & SSShmoo, The true meaning of trust is allowing an inexperienced driver to drive on a dark highway. Only you two could make 7 hours fly bye. Love, the person resting, not sleeping in the back. Day 12: Worm Expulsion. Remember The Alamo!!! Marie, Congratulations on joining the ranks. Sue Ld- Was that the first time a man reached down your pants for his underwear? SOT Caravan Brand, That's 4 out of 5 weekends, does that make me a part-time student?

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 '!lJ) ~ {if @! r@aa•a ()) ( !JI1Mt p ii CC,$ !{riiay • !May 19 · 1:00p.rn. Submit your Term Abroad pictures to the Yearbook. Drop them off in cc 40'8. ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237-9012 ROl has excellent part-time and full-time positions avail able working With adults with. developmental disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting. Work with a professional team while providing assistance and supervision in the a:-e::t3 of daily living skills, socialization and recreation. FlelCible hours on weekday evenigr1s, overnigh1s nad weekends. Earn between $5.50 and $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday_ bonus incentive (part-time wages). Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus lull benefits. sr~RT YOUR CAREERIN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient loca11ons. Call for information . . Residential Opportunities, lr1c. is a not for profit Hurna.n Service Agency lo~ated in the Albany area. Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, NY 12047 (518) 237-9012 Econonlics Club Lunch Table Wednesdays l2:55in Carnegie Room 302 Economics Crisis Center If you n.eed help in Intro or any core courses Social Sciences Room 103 4:00 ... 5:.00 pm T-Shirts for and·· and GREEK WEEK ' . ON. SALE SOON! $50 Gift Certificate tp the Cranberry Bog for the_ winner of the· UNION . . ' HISTORICAL. , TRIVIA CONTEST Sponsored by Student Alumni Association Pick-up forms outside the main dining hall of the College _Center. Contest Runs Ma 8th 12th·

• I ' CONCORDIENSJS May 4, 1989 ·- . . . .. . \'' - D. · .. t' c:.aren .. · s eekend • •. 9 V.nion Co[{ege Spea~rs j'orum \ ··outrageous.\ \Sensational.\ · \Mind·blowing:\ \Extreme~~~ I \Fasci-nating.\ \Standing Room Only.\ · \Frightening.\ · \Riveiing.\ Presents · Liddy. You may not agree with him; you will never forget him. Friday, May 12, 8 p.m. . Memorial Chapel Page 15 .FREE FREE • _ _J . .

i 1·. ! Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS May 4, 1989 : . . . .... = .-· ·- - .. , '· __ - ..... -~- : ... - .... ,_ .-. - ·.· ....... -·. -·-· ... ·· .. -· ··.···-.·-······'.I .. · . ' - ' . . . . ' . . · ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT IDO·L CHATTER I. :\' The Idol would like to thank all those who submitted work for this year's editi9n. Unfortunately, the Idol's mouth is painted shut so we will have to thank you instead. Thanks! Thanks! CONTESTI CO·NT.ESTI CONT:EST! The Newton Falls Paper MiU, Inc., has announced the opening of the firm's second annual caleEdar contest, a competition for New York State students enrolled in visual arts curricula. The contest, which results in the publication of a calendar featuring thirteen winning emtries, carries a top award of a $2,000 cash scholarship grant. The competition offers aspiring young artists the opportunity to achieve natiarul exposure in the widely circulated calenda.t. Photographs to water coler paintings helped create a memorable first edition,. and they are looking for talent from various schools in the area for the next issue. Information about the Calendar Contest may be 'Obtained from art department 'ileads or school fina11c.ial.officers. The competition deadline is June 30, 1989. Entry forms may be obtained throllgll them or by writing; Newton Falls Calendar Contest, c/o CYM Corp., 120~ James Street, Syracuse, NY 13203. GOOD LUCK! WRUC SHOW PICK.:.OF-THE-WEEK THE FINAL FINAL ••• A show dedicated to and in anticipation of ... The only show on 'RUC proclaimed to be \Eargasmic\ by Erin O'Hara.. · Monday Nights - 8 - 10 PM. •. r-------- -CLIP· 'N' SAVE·------- -• I S11btlety reigns this week, with two acoustic acts in the top three. But with groups like Concrete 1 Bl-onde and the Pixies, with their mountains of joyful grundge in the distance, exiJect an opp'Osition attack. And with the Cure's new album squaring up against the 10,00() Maniacs in I future weeks, it is a war to be ignored at your peril. Thank you. I I I Artist l. The Indigo Girls 2. 10,000 Maniacs 12\ 3. Miracle Legion 4. The Godfathers 5. Concrete Blonde 6. The Cure 7. The Pixies ~- Firehose :8.97 The Cult Title Indigo Girls \Tremble Me' Me&Mr.Ray M()re Song~ About Love& Hate . Free Disintegration Doolittle Fromohio Sonic Temple Label Epic Elektra Rough Trade Epic I.R.S . Elektra Elektra SST Beggar's Banquet I I I I I I I I I Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week - Stan Ridgway - \GQint Southbound\ Pr()gramming Notes: • Coming in two weeks - The WRUC NEWS SHOW. Stay tuned. • Miraacle ~gion giveaways are still irreffect Listen and Win! I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .. _ Do You know what the show pick is? - - ... - - -· --- - --- .... - -- ........ _, _ __ ... I RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST Preliminary Roun.ds Week of May 8th UtUS·IGN' .. U· p· 'NOW'\\ ..... ' . . .... DISPLAY YOUR SKILL AT ORAL EXPRESSION ·Friday, May 12- 7pm --SS 016-- . CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES Applications: . . 1) Science & Engineering Bldg .. Room S-10 2) library Circulation Desk 3) Student Mfairs Office - College Ce~ter

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT IDOL CHATTER I ' The Idol would like to thank all those who submitted work for this year's edition. Unfortunately, the Idol's mouth is painted shut so we will have to thank you instead. Thanks! Thanks! The Newton Falls Paper MHI, Inc., has announced the opening of U1e firm's second annual calendar contest, a competition for New York State students enrolled in visual arts curricula. 'The contest, which results in the publication of a calen.dar featllling thirteen winning entries, carries a top award of a $2,000 casll scholarship grant The competition offers aspiring young artists the opportunity to achieve national expostlfe in the widely circulated calendar. Photographs to water color paintings helped create a memorable first edition, and they are looking for talent from various schools in the area for the next issue. Information about the Calendar Contest may be obtained from an deparunent heads or school financial officers. The competition deadline is June 30, 1989. Entry forms may be obtained through them or by writing: Newton Falls Calendar Contest, c/o CYM Cbrp., 1208 James Street, Syracuse, NY 13203. GOOD LUCK! WRUC SHOW PICK-OF-THE-WEEK THE FINAL FINAL .... A show dedicated to and in anticipation of ... The only show on 'RUC proclaimed to be \Eargasmic\ by Erin O'Hara. Monday Nights - 8 - 10 PM. *s~fFs* r-------- -CLIP 'N' SAVE·---- --- -· Caffe Lena 583-0022 Fri.~ Sat., Jazz guitar duo of Bucky Pizzarelli and Son will perform at 8:30. Call for reservations and information. I Subtlety reigns this week, with two acoustic acts in the top three. But with groups like Concrete 1 Blonde and the Pixies, with their mountains of joyful grundge in the distance, expect an opposition attack. And with the Cure's new album squaring up against the 10,000 Maniacs in I futme weeks, it is a war to be ignored at your peril. Thank you. Capital Rep 462-4534 Opening May 6 and contiuil1g through Jrme 11 is Biloxi Blues. Call for tickets and inforniation. I I I I I I I I . Half Moon. Cafe 43:6·,03-29 I Fri~, Heavenly Jazz of C!grtus , I . that has tlae ·ability, to tVJfil y:p1ttr · I frown into a · s~ile ', without I Artist Title Label 1. The Indigo Girls Indigo Girls Epic 2. 10,000 Maniacs 12\ \Trouble Me' Elcktra 3. Miracle Legion Me & Mr. Ray Rough Trade 4. The Godfathers More Songs About Love& Hate Epic 5. Concrete Blonde Free I.R.S. 6. The Cure Disintegration Elektra 7. The Pixies Doolittle Elektra 8. Firehose Fromohio SST 8.97 The Cult Sonic Temple Beggar's Banquet Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week- Stan Ridgway - \Goin' Southbound\ Programming Notes: • Coming in two weeks - The WRUC NEWS SHOW. Stay tuned. • Miraacle Legion giveaways are still in effect. Listen and Win! I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I turning you upside down. L - _Eo_!o'!!n~ ~t ~ =wJ!ct;.!,s? ________ _ ___ ... Sat., 7-11 pm. Acoustic rock of the Bohemian Masters who play in the tradition of Dylan, . Garcia, etc. ., Proctors 382-8884 Fri., 8 pm, Boy Meets Girl Sat., 8 pm, Flying Karamazov Brothers . . ,·.. . ........ : .::.::.- ...... '\'· . . . ........ : ... : .. :·.,,·:. RICHARD BLATCHFORD ORATORICAL CONTEST Preliminary Rounds Week of May 8th !!!!!SIGN UP NOW!!!!! DISPLAY YOUR SKILL AT ORAL EXPRESSION Friday, May 12- 7pm --SS 016-- CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRIZES CASH PRJZES CASH PRIZES Applications: 1) Science & Engineering Bldg .• Room S-1 0 2) library Circulation Desk 3) Student Affairs Office - College Cer:ter I i,l 1.1 :I ,I .! ' I l '

I I I I I I I I I I I I ~ CONCORDIENSI$ May 4, 1989 . ;_ ,. ARTS & ·ENTERTAINMENT . . . , Third World First In Reggae By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor The Wailers and Third World played to an excited, diverse, ~d receptive crowd of 1200 reggae fans Friday night at Albany's Palace Theater. After · a belated start, the tickets said 7:30 curtain, the box office said 8:00, The Waiters finally appeared on stage at 8:30. Opening with traditional reggae the ·Waiters demanded that everyone get out of their chairs and feel the music. As most of the crowd were already on their feet dancing, this requst was met instead •by a rush to the stage. With a steady beat and compelling bass The W ailers lead singer sang songs about Nelson Mandela., apartheid, and of course the power of love. In tribute to the band's founder, Bob Marley, some old favorit(is were thrown in as . well. Among these songs were \Is ATTENTION MASK MAKERS! If you participated in the mask _ making event during the fall, your face has returned! Please pick up your creations ASAP in College Center . 407, 8:30 am- 5:00pm Third World · , this Love'' and \Exodus.\ Uliimately one could not help but be somewhat disappointed by The Waiters. However .competent their performance is now, the memories of Marley and the magic between him and the original· Waiters will never be forgotten, cannot be copied and .will always overshadow 'l'he Wailers.' Third World, unencumbered by such an overwhelming legacy. proved to be much more compelling than The Wailers. With a .tighter, cleaner sound, they championed many social issues and proclaimed themselves reggae ambasadors. Incorporating elements of pop, . rock and roll, and even rap witb their tight reggae foundation this band offered an expansive reggae experience. Especially refreshing were the fantastic lyrics of such songs as the \Reggae Ambassador.\ Rather than repeating simplistic lyrics. as so many reggae bands do, Third World injected their songs with brilliant images and original ideas. And, while heavily promoting their latest album, \Serious Business,\ in the beginning of their set, the band delighted the crowd by playing old favorites .as well. \Try Ja Love\ brought cheers from knowing audience members as did \Moving Up.\ While it is still too early to determine whether Third World's mission of \peace unity, love for all so that humanity can change the problems of the world by love\ has been recognized, one could clearly determine that the concert itself was a success. Special thanks to Ulysses Love who pulled together a last minute insurance policy so that the show would go on and the fans would be delighted. STUDENT ART EXHIBITS May 5- May 17, 1989 10 am to 4 pm Monday - Friday and Parents Weekend May 13, 14, 1989 10 am to 4 pm Saturday and Sunday KIMBERLY QUIRK '89 Japanese Brush Paintings Arts Building Atrium & Foyer WILLIAM CASE '90 Photographs - Portraiture Barbados and Schenectady · Arts Bujfding Second Floor Pet ~ematery The Rescuers. She's Out of Control Listen To Me Criminal Law Major Leagu.e Page 17 . .,. Dream Team Pet ·Sematery ·'!I.,. Horror Show I Say Anything See You in the Morning Rain Man

I I I I I I I I I l 'I I . , u 1 I ,. I ,I CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ,. ---------------------------------------------------------------- ~ Third World First In Reggae By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor The Wailers and Third World played to an excited, diverse. and receptive crowd of 1200 reggae fans Friday night at Albany's Palace Theater. After a belated start, the tickets said 7:30 curtain, the box office said 8:00, The Wailers finally appeared on stage at 8:30. Opening with traditional reggae the Wailers demanded that everyone get out of their chairs and feel the music. As most of the crowd were already on their feet dancing, this requst was met instead by a rush to the stage. With a steady beat and compelling bass The Wailers lead singer sang songs about Nelson Mandela, apartheid, and of course the power of love. In tribute to the band's founder, Bob Marley, some old favorites were thrown in as well. Among these songs were \Is ATTENTION MASK MAKER 51 If you participated in the mask making event during the fall, your face has returned! Please pick up your creations ASAP in College Center 407, 8:30 am- 5:00 pm Third World this Love\ and \Exodus.\ Ultimately one could not help but be somewhat disappointed by The Waiters. However competent their performance is now, the memories of Marley and the magic between him and the original Wailers will never be forgotten, cannot be copied and will always overshadow 'The Wailers.' Third World, unencumbered by such an overwhelming legacy, proved to be mucb more compelling than The Wailers. With a tighter, cleaner sound, they championed many social issues and proclaimed themselves reggae ambasadors. Incorporating elements of pop, rock and roll, and even rap with their tight reggae foundation this band offered an expansive reggae experience. Espcciall y refreshing were the fantastic lyrics of such songs as tile \Reggae Ambassador.\ Rather than repeating simplistic lyrics as so many reggae bands do, Third World injected their sorigs with brilliant images and original ideas. And, while heavily promoting their latest album, \Serious Business,\ in the beginning of their set, the band delighted the crowd by playing old favorites as well. \Try Ja Love\ brought cheers from knowing audience members as did \Moving Up.\ While it is still too early to determine whether Third World's mission of \peace unity, love for all so that humanity can change the problems of the world by love\ has been recognized, one could clearly determine that the concert itself was a success. Special thanks to Ulysses Love who pulled together a last minute insurance policy so that the show would go on and the fans would be delighted. STUDENT ART EXHIBITS May 5 - May 17, 1989 10 am to 4 pm Monday - Friday and Parents Weekend May 13, 14, 1989 10 am io 4 pm Saturday and Sunday KIMBERLY QUIRK '89 Japanese Btush Paintings Arts Building Atrium & Foyer . HOROSCOPES BY \A\ TAURUS: Last week's considerable losses may tead to substantial gains in the near future. This may be a difficult week-- do not be afraid to turn to someone for comfort. GEMiNI: Confused emotions wilf find themselves resurfacing in relation to members of the opposite sex. Follow your instincts and everything will be perfect . CANCER: After last weekend it's time to settle down your party animal side and set your priorities straight. A productive and pleasantly surprising weekend is ahead. LEO: The time to settle down into a serious relationship has come. You have played the fie'd long enough and tested every option. Do not allow anyone to get in the way. VIRGO: Confidence is essential this week You may meet a powerful partner of passion ·just be careful of unrealistic expectations. LIBRA: Your bad luck in the romance department is attributable to your close~ minded and immature outlook. Be confident -- someone you have been admiring from afar is admiring you. SCORPIO: Avoid making promises this week or else you will inevitably disappoint someone. Confront suppressed emotions-~ let 1oosen SAGITTARIUS: If intoxicants play a large role in your social activities, watch your step this weekend. Saturday evening promises to be a memorable one. CAPRICORN: This week could get off to an exciting start --socially speaking. Do not get caught up in your popularity. Avoid romantic flings -- confusion may occur in terms of commitment. AQUARIUS: Emotional damage from past romances may be interferring with beginning a future with. someone new. After this week no one should stand in your way. PISCES: You horny thing youl Dontt you think it's time .you committed yourself to someone -- you are certainly at no loss for admirers. ARIES: This has been a very difficul1 term thus far. So many peopfe care deeply for you that you should have faith that youtH ge1 out of this rut with flying colors. lfs time to turn to someone for hetp. \ ~h ... c·. Call Theaters for Show Tin1.es.

?, Page 18 CONCORDfENSIS. May 4, 1989 ATTENTION ALL: Chrissies, Ivans,. · Martinas, MacEnroes, and all you other • tennis addicts. • Sign up now for Union's First Annual Mixed (Up?!) Doubles Tournament on Saturday May 20th. Teams • of student-student; student-faculty, and faculty- faculty are welcome. · Players of all levels are encouraged to participate. Call AMY at x4365 or LAKSHMI at x4467 t.o participate. Prizes from local sponsors will be awarded. This event is spo:nsored by The Intramural Dept. CHEERLEAD lNG ··CLINIC FOR FOOTBALL CHEERLEADERS MONDAY, MAY 7, 1989 4:30 in front of Alumni Gym NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY DRESS APPROPRIATELY ALL ARE WELCOME :~~~ INDIAN ·B:LANKET Special Offer Free Blessing ·size 72X.90, And Choice of Blue or Brown~. Authentic Indian Design Each one Personally Blessed By Wise owt, Med:icfne Man And. Chief orownLng creek Reservation 5150. Value For Only 539. Postpaid · SatisfaCtion Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed By ln(11an Mecncine Man Your Order Provides Help • u~gentlv Needed By Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Owl, Drowning creek ;Reservation, R#2 Box · 108. ·Maxton, N .. c. 28364 ·• !Rit_lu~~.~v~· l\V~E.:t\1~~~() ~~sg,. JI1U~IE 9~·-11()-11,~ ll'9tS9~ Alumni Affairs· Lo.rn.()nt House Schenectac;ly, N.Y. 12 308 (5.18) 370-6.168 $NEED EXTRA CASH?!$ We are looking for students who want to earn some fun, easy, in<>neyl Students who would like to work on ReUnion/ Coiniilencement Weekend (June 9 & 1()), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. · Seniors: MAY CALENDAR Bean As_sociate Class Agent Contact Ericka Rauscher Third Floor, Lamont House Saxton, Porter, Speir Scholarships All Union students who are accepted and definitely planning to attend. Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept .. Office, and should be returned to Prof. Board in the PoL Sci. Dept .. ' by July 1, 1989. Don't get your dates confuse~d! May 12-14 Parents Weekend May 17-20 Greek Week May 19 Fitzhugh Ludlow May 19 Delta Gamma Olym.pics May27 Camp Union

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS May 4, 1989 ATTENTION ALL: Chrissies, lvans, Martinas, MacEnroes, and all you other · tennis addicts. • Sign up now for Union's First Annual Mixed (Up?!) Doubles Tournament on Saturday May 20th.. Teams . of student-student; student-faculty, and faculty- faculty are welcome. Players of all levels are encouraged to participate .. Call AMY at x4365 or LAKSHMI at x4467 to participate. Prizes from local sponsors will be award,ed. This event is sponsored by The Intramural Dept. Pick. up, oppliecit.fons in Terms Abroad Office CHEERLEAD lNG CLINIC FOR FOOTBALL CHEERLEADERS MONDAY, MAY 7, 1989 4:30 in front of Alumni Gym NO EXPERIENCE NECESSARY DRESS APPROPRIATELY ALL ARE WELCOME ,) INDIAN BLANKET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90, And . Choice of Blue Or Brown. Authentic Indian Design Each One Personally Blessed By Wise • Owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek : Reservation $150. Value For Only 539. Postpaid ! Satisfaction Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed By Indian Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help Urgently Needed By Tribe, Pl,ease write: Chief Wise Owl, Drowning creek Reservation, R#2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 ll21tiU~~~u~ l\Viti[I\IE~I[) ·~sg» JI1U~IE 9t·-ll()-lll j~ 119~S9t Alumni Affairs· Lamont House Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (518) 370-6168 $NEED EXTRA CASH?!$ We are looking for students who want to earn some fun, easy, money! Students who would like to work on ReUnion/ Commencement Weekend (June 9 & 10), please stop by the Alumni Office or call Sharon or Kerry at 6168. Seniors: MAY CALENDAR Bean Associate Class Agent Contact Ericka Rauscher Third Floor, Lamont House Saxton, Porter, Speir Scholarships All Union students who are accepted and definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to Prof. Board in the Pol. Sci. Dept. by July 1, 1989. Don't get your dates confused! May 12-14 Parents Weekend May 17-20 Greek Week May 19 Fitzhugh Ludlow May 19 Delta Gamma Olympics May27 Camp Union

' CONOORIJIENSlS May 4, 1989 By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor . Senior slugger Tracy Valachovic and freshman ph~nom Sarah Dudzic share Athlete of the Week honors this week for their respective play 011 the Men's Baseballand Women's Softball, teams~ ·home run came in the season opener agaillst Oneonta and won the game for the Dutchme~: the timely 3 .. run · A graduate of Johnstown High School and four\-year letter winner here, Tracy has emerged as a team leaders statistically and emotionally for the Dutchman baseball · squad this year. Noted particularly for his defensive play at third base in his three previous seasons, Tracy's. bat has come alive this year. He leads the Dutchmen in RBI's with 13,. bas scored 8 runs and is l,>atting .354 on 17- 48 hitting (third on the team)~ Strictly a line drive hitter in years past, what has been par.ticularly impressive about Tracy's offensive gam:e this year has been his P9wer. He leads the teaitl with 3 \<lingers\ (home runs) and has a .580 slugging percen~ge. His frrst -o ... 1\- . §! a. '!:':! ; u: Co-Athletes of the Week, Tracy Valachovic aAd Saratl Dudzic. VARSITY 'LETTER WINNERS Please pick up your tickets for the Sports Banquet. They are in the Athletic Office at the Alumni Gym, op·en from 9 am - 3 pm. The Banquet will be held on Wedn,esday, May 17 at 6:00 pm in the Colleg~ Center. blast came with two outs in . · .the seventh inning and gave the Dutcllmen a 6~5 victory. Tra<:y's. defensive game has not waned in light ·Of his new foun(l power; he has just two errors in 16 games this·seaspn. Eqpally impressive has been the well-rounded play of Sarah Dudz.ic, who has led the softball squad in hittillg, pitching and fielding. Wb.en she's on the diamond, Sarail seems not to have a . weakness. Offensively, she leads the team in batting · average (.344), RBI's (10), and • slugging percentage (.500). ' Defensively, she has made just one error in 61 chances for a · .984 fielding average. Perhaps not surprisingly, Sarall's performance on the mour1d has been just as impressive. She has pitched in eight games, . and has a 4-3 record with a 2.83 ERA. Havillg completed .all seven of the .games sile started, her steady p~rformance has served as an inspiration for the team. Congratulations, Tracy and · Sarah., on jobs well done! SPORTS ACCORDING TO GOET'Z By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor It is impossible to remove the human el·ement from sports. In sports where an athlete's emotions often fuel their efforts, nobody is going to ~e happy all the time. with officiating or even coaching, but that does in no ~ay provide a j:ustificati()n for such outbursts. However, it may provide s~me understanding of why such melees occur: tempers tend to flare when athletes and coaches work so hard to improve and win, and the unhappy, unwanted results of their endeavors leave bitter, often resentful feelings. The recent events on this campus have made me realize that this kind of occ•JITence is seldom understood unless experienced. Most athletes can recall a similar incident, if not as participant, then as a Mouthing Off 'By ANDY BRAVER I'd love to know the name of the National Football League's geographer. I need from him a long explanation of how aad why certain teams have wound up playing in certain divisions. There seems to be no logic to their organization; when teams from Minnesota and Tampa Bay, New Orleans and Los Angeles, and Dallas and New York are placed in the same divisions, one must begin to wonder if perhaps this NFL geographer person is also in the jet fuel business. \V'lten the Colorado Rockies of the. National Hockey League moved to New Jersey and began callings themselves ,DevRs,. the league moved the team into the Patrick Division. which was already the home of the five other regional teams. Out of the Norris and away from tlie likes of Detroit, Minnesota and St. Louis, and now alongside of New York, New York and PbiladelP,hia. This is only logical, as well as geographically correct. · When an NFL team excllanges cities, it should follow the NHL 's lead. Screw competitiveness; the only thing that .matters is that a leagu.e have logical organiz:e4 divisions and conferences. As it stands now. certain divisions are only competitive for last place. Maybe, like management says all too often about players, a change of scenery would be helpful. I say move teams. What we need is a total reorganization of the league including two more teams to round out the nllffiber to 30 in the league. He~e is the conference and division breakdown that I advocate, including my two new teams: At1lerican Football Conference (AFC)-EAST: Miami, New York, New England, Buffalo, and Wayne, Maine (my first team). CENTRAL: Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Indianapolis. WEST: Los Angeles, Seattle, Denver, San Diego, and Houston. Almost the same, but here come the real changes. National Football Concerence (NFC)- EAST: New York, Washingtin, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Tampa Bay. CENTRAL: New Orleans, Detroit, Chicago, Green Bay and Minesota. WEST: San Francisco, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Dallas, and Pocatello, Idaho {my second team). There, I feel much better. That wasn't hard. All I can do now is hope- that the new commissioner agrees with me. RICH ROMER TO SPEAK 1988 graduate Rich Romer, a player with the N.F.L.'s Cincinatti Bengals will speak at a reception to be held by the U:ni()n College ALumni Club of Albany-Troy from 5:30 to 7:~0p.m. Thursday, Mayll, atNorstar Plaza in Albany. Starring at defensive end, Rich was chosen as an Academic All-American for the Dutchman Gridders. He was also selected by the l3engals in the seventh round of the 1988 draft. __ A selection of hot and cold hor d'oeuvers will be served, and a cash bar will be available. Entertainment will be provided by members of the U:Qion College Concert Band. Page 19 SPORTS spectator. And if they have not witnessed a similar instance of trauma, then they can at least admit to having the pent~up emQtions which are vented in this kind of violence. So, if anyone was totally surprised that such ~n incident C()uld occur to someone that they . know, then they are fooling themselves. It takes time to gain a perspective from where one can evaluate their actions,. look at the roots of the pmblem, and decide if the situation could have been avoided or handled differently. Isolated outbutsts often result from problems which are constantly avoidoo or left unsolved. If fighting is ~the only availabfe alternative to settle disputes between players and coaches, then some kind of constant upkeep of communication or settlement of differences must be arranged. As the old' adage says, big rrees from little ac()ms grow. In the guise of motivation, coaches often goad players into becoming angry, hoping that it can be chaiinelled into tlleir efforts in tile field. It is a technique that often works, but the dangers of it must be realized aloiig with a player's demeanor. However shocking and outrageous these recent events may be, and need attention, tlley should not detract frorh the overall success of our players and coaches. ATHLETE OF THE WEEK ******* Winners may pick up their framed award certificates in the Sports Infromation Office, located on the first floor of 17 South Lane: - Wendy Vicent .. Ann Glicksman - Jeanne Cutrone - Ron Kinghorn - Terry Campbell - Paul Garnett -John Keller -Tony Amarante - Kathy Kavaney -Jen Joyce ...

By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Senior slugger Tracy Valacbovic and freshman phenom Sarah Dudzic share Athlete of the Week honors this week for their respective play on the Men's Baseball and Women's Softball teams. ·A graduate of Johnstown High School and four-year letter winner here, Tracy has emerged as a team leaders statistically and emotionally for the Dutchman baseball squad this year. Noted particularly for his defensive play at third base in his three previous seasons, Tracy's bat has come alive this year. He leads the Dutchmen in RBI's with 13, has scored 8 runs and is batting .354 on 17- 48 hitting (third on the team). Strictly a line drive hitter in years past, what has been particularly impressive about Tracy's offensive game this year has been his power. He leads the team with 3 \dingers\ (home runs) and has a .580 slugging percentage. His first home run came in the season opener against Oneonta and won the game for the Dutchmen: the timely 3-run Co-Athletes of the Week, Tracy Valachovic and Sarah Dudzic. VARSITY LETTER WINNERS Please pick up your tickets for the Sports Banquet. They are in the Athletic Office at the Alumni Gym, open from 9 am - 3 pm. The Banquet will be held on Wednesday, May 17 at 6:00 pm in the College Center. · Page 19 Qlnncnr(l iensis SPORTS blast came with two outs in the seventh inni:ng and gave the Dutchmen a 6-5 victory. Tracy's defe11sive game has not waned in li.ght of his new found power; lle has just two errors in 16 games this seaspn. Equally impressive has been the well-rounded play of Sarah Dudzic, who has led the softball squad in hitting, pitching and fielding. When she's ()n the diamond, Sarah seems not to have a weakness. Offensively, she leads the team in batting average (.344), RBI's (10), and slugging percentage (.500). Defensively, shoe has made just one error in 6t chances for a .984 fielding average. Perhaps not surprisingly, Sarah's performance on the mound has been just as impressive. She has pitched in eight games, and bas a 4-3 record with a 2.83 ERA. Having completed all seven of the games she started, her steady performance has served as an inspiration for the team. Congratulations, Tracy and Sarah, on jobs weU done! SPORTS ACCORDI'NG TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor It is impossible to remove the human element from sports. In sports where an athlete's emotions often fuel their efforts, nobody is going t<> be happy aU the time with officiating or even coaching, but that does in no way provide a justification · for such outbursts. However, it may provide some understanding of why such melees occur. Tempers tend to flare when athletes and coaches work so hard to improve and win, and the unhappy, unwanted results of their endeavors leave bitter, often resentful feelings. The recent events on this campus have made me realize that this kind of occ•rrrence is seldom understood unless experienced. Most athletes can recall a similar incident, if not as participant, then as a Mouthing Off By ANDY IJRA VER I'd love to know the name of the National Football League's geographer. I need from him a long explanatiOtn of how and why certain teams have wound up playing in ce.rtain divisions. There seems to be no logic to their organization; when teams from Minnesota and Tampa Bay, New Or\.eans and Los Angeles, and l)allas and New York are place.d in the same divisions, one must begin to wonder if perhaps this NFL geographer person is also in the jet fuel busi11ess. When the C@<lorado Rockies of the National Hockey League moved to New Jersey and began calling;s themselves Devils, the league moved the team into the Patrick Division, which was already the horne of the five other regional teams. Out of the Norris and away from the likes of Detroit, Minnesota and St. Louis, and now alongside of New York, New York and Philadelp.hia. This is only logical, as well as geographically correct. When an NFL team exchanges cities, it should follow the NHL's lead. Screw competitivene;ss; the only thing that matters is that a league have logical organized divisions and conferences. As it stands now, certain divisions are only competitive for last place. Maybe, like management says all too often about players, a change of scenery would be helpful. I say move teams. What we need is a total reorganization of the league including two more teams to round out the number to 30 in the league. Here is the conference and division breakdown that I advocate, including my two new teams: American Football Conference (AFC)-EAST: Miami, New York, New England, Buffalo, and Wayne, Maine (my first team). CENTRAL: Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Cleveland, Kansas City, and Indianapolis. WEST: Los Angeles, Seattle, Denver, San Diego, and Houston. Almost the same, but here c<>me the real changes. National Football Concerence (NFC)- EAST: New York, Washingtin, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Tampa Bay. CENTRAL: New Orleans, Detroit, Chicago, Green Bay and Minesota. WEST: San Francisco, Los Angeles, Phoenix, Dallas, and Pocatello, Idaho (my second team). There, I feel much better. That wasn't hard. All I can do now is hope that the new commissioner agrees with me. RICH ROMER TO SPEAK 1988 graduate Rich Romer, a player with the N.F.L.'s Cincinatti Bengals will speak at a reception to be held by the Union College ALumni Club of Albany-Troy from 5:30 to 7:30p.m. Thursday, May 11, at Norstar Plaza in Albany. Starring at defensive end, Rich was chosen as an Academic All-American for the Dutchman Gridders. He was also selected by the Bengals in the seventh round of the 1988 draft. A selection of hot and cold hor d'oeuvers will be served, and a cash bar will be available. Entertainment will be provided by members of the Union College Concert Band. spectator. And if they have not witnessed a similar instance of trauma. then they can at least admit to having the pent-up emotions which are vented in this kind of violence. So, if anyone was totally surprised that such an incident could occur to someone th.at they know, then they are fooling themselves. It takes time to gain a perspective from where one can evaluate their actions, look at the roots of the problem, and decide if the situation could have been avoided or handled differently. Isolated outbutsts often result from problems which are constantly avoided or left unsolved. If fighting is the only availabfe alternative to settle disputes between players and coaches, Lhen some kind of constant upkeep of communication or settlement of differences must be arranged. As the old adage says, big trees from little acorns grow. In the guise of motivation, coaches often goad players into becoming angry, hoping that it can be channelled into their efforts in the field. It is a technique that often works, but the dangers of it must be realized along with a player's demeanor. However shocking and outrageous these recent events may be, and need attention, they should not detract from the overall success of our players and coaches. ATHLETE OF THE WEEK ******* Winners may pick up their framed award certificates in the Sports Infromation Office, located on the first floor of 1 7 South Lane: -Wendy Vicent - Ann Glicksman -Jeanne Cutrone - Ron Kinghorn - Terry Campbell - Paul Garnett -John Keller - Tony Amarante - Kathy Kavaney - Jen Joyce ....

?<--. t:~ '· 0 \\ ~ c. ·w ....1 i!: Courtney Ly:nch drives to the net against ·o.neonta. Women's lacrosse split two games last week. Rob Ackerman and ttu Men's Tertnls team dominated t·he competition. last week In bea·tln.g Hattwlck s~a -and St. Rose 8·6. May 4, 1989 - . Hectic Sc.hedule, Art Broga Push Men's Track to· Strong Showing By HANS SCHWARZ The Union Men's track team has recently been led by Lhc powerful scoring effort of Art Broga. On Saturday, May 22, the men Lravc.Jed to Colgate to compete against fifteen other schools in the Colgate Invitational. Sophomore Art Broga is a ·student at the Albany College of Pharmacy. which is part of the Union University athletic department. Competing in both the long and triple jnmps, he netted nine points at Colgate. His 6.54m long jump captured sixth, and 13.74m triple jump, a personal best, took second place overalL Meanwhile, Chip Silver led the runners to strong performances with a 15.9 time in the ll Om hurdles, and a split of 53.46 in the 4x400m. to help the relay team; also composed of Jeff Simkins, Bob Lindyberg, and Tom Frisbie, to finish in 3:35.35~ Sascha Lewis and Michael Martinez turned in fine efforts. by registering times of 4:26.5 and 4:29;6, respectively. in the 1500m. In the 800m, Bob Lindyberg, Hans Schwarz, and Doug Martocci, all turned in strong performances while fighting gusty, cold winds. Rounding out the top performances in the rpnning events, were Steve Hayes. Tom Frisbie, and Bob Lindybcrg in the 400m, with times of 53.0, 55.5, and 55.2, respectively. In the throwing events, Shawn Mowry was the star for Union with a throw of the 16 pound weight of 32.46, a personal best. Last Wednesday, the Union Open was another bright spot for the Dutchmen. Personal bests were the order of the day. in the 800m, Doug Martocci, Sascha Lewis, and Hans Schwarz, all achieved personal records, with times of 2:08.0, 2:08.3, and 2: 10.2. MiChael SPORTS WEEK THURSDAY, May 4 Women's Softball vs. North Adams 3:30 Away 7:00 Away 8:30 Away Women's lacrosse vs. Hartwick JVWomen's lacrosse vs. Hartwick Men's Baseball Men's Gdlf Men's lacrosse Men's Baseball Womens'Softball Men's Tennis Men's Baseball Men's lacrosse Men's Baseball Women's Lacrosse FRIDAY, May 5 vs. Rochester (Doubleheader) 2;00 Away vs. MiddlebUty 1 :00 Away vs. Clarkson (ECAC Playoff) 4:00 Away _ SATURDAY, May 6 vs. Hobart (Doubleheader) 1:00 .Away vs. Russell SAGE (Doubleheader) 11:00 Home V$. Oneonta 1:00 Away MONDAY, May 8 vs. Skidmore 3:00:-Away vs. Albany 3:30 Home TUESDAY, May 9 3:00 Away vs. Williams vs. Williams 3:30Home . JV Women's Lacrosse vs. Williams 5:00 Home Men's Tertnis vs. Williams .3:00 Away Martinez and Bob Lindyberg also recorded similar feats, with times of 4:23.3 a_nd 4:25.9, respectively. In addition to his state qualifying time in the 200m of 23.0, Steven Hayes recorded a 5 1.8 in the 400m and a 11.3 in the lOOm. Finally, the remaining personal best was Jim Campoli's personal best in the 3000m racewalk. The student support was very encouragiQg to all those participating. The next home meet will be the Union S.pring Classic on May 19. This past Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Hartwick to compete in their fifth meet . · in only fourteen days. The field event crew helped propel Union with two strong first place finishes. They included Art · Broga leaping 6.53 in the long jump and Tom Lombardoni throwing a personal best in the javelin of 49.64. Putting the shot 14.02, qualified Matt Guyette for the state meet in two weeks. Art Broga also jumped to a third in the triple jump with 13.15. Shawn Mowry was another pillar of Union strength with his javelin throw, a personal best of 38.84. In the running competitions, Bob Lindyberg's seasonal best in the 800m in 2:01.9 clinched second place and Michael Martinez's personal best in the .3000m steeplechase of 10:24.5 were demonstrations of the Dutchmen's ability.. Steven Hayes took a second in the 200m, with 23.3 and came back with a third in the 400rn in 51.3. Although .the .recent meets seem to have taken· its toll on some longer distance runners, Sascha Lewis captured a fourth place with his personal best in the 1500m of 4:19.5. Lady T rackste rs End Season On High Note By SHORTCAKE put with a 10.44 m heave and, to end the day. twirled her way The wornen •s track team had to a fifth place finish in the a busy schedule last week as discus with a toss of 29.71 m. they finished up a very In addition, :Beth Jewett had a successful outdoor season. L<~st strong. disc throw of 27.70 rn, Wednesday~ the Union Open In the shot put, Adrien and then on Saturday, t1ley Bagatelle had a 7.25 m throw. traveled to Hartwick to ru11 in Sanqy, when sl:te was not the Hartwick Invitational. ln running, could be found at the both meets, the women had a high jump pit whe:re she strong sbllwing, proving they jumped her way to a second are ready for their upcoming place finish over a 1.28 m high post seasonc()mpetition. bar. In the long jump, Natalie At the Union Open, the earned fourth place honors by women had a day ofoddevemts jumping 4.14 m. as many .competed in races At the Hartwick Invitational, outside O<f their speciality. the women spent the day in the Sandy Amselment, who is rain, something they have usually a distance runner, tried become accustomed t() doing, her hand attwo hmdle races 31ld and put forth some of tlteir best did suprisillgly well. Irt the 100 performances all seasorn. In the m high hurdles, Sandy powered 800 m run, Sandy ran a PR her way te a fourth place finish (personal record) (or tbe season in 19.5 sec:onds~ She then ca111e as she crossed the line fourth back to take second in the 400 with a time of 2:27.-fJ. Deb m interme-diate hurdles witlt a also ran a strong 800 m and time of 1:15.4. In the 400 m followed close behind in 2:36. dash, Lynne Erdman, who h.as Lynne missed the school record excelled at many differe-nt by one second as she ran aPR events this year, finished with the 1500 m run in 5:()6. Rika, a respectable time of 64.7. the team's freshman sensation, Denise McMillan follo-wed blew away her closest rival, with a tim-e of 66.5. Rika Poor along with the rest of the field, blew away the competiti<m in to clock an incredible 59.2 the 100 m dash with a time of second 400 m and rack up yet 13.0 seccnds. In the l~tst another PR for the day. The running event of the day, tile 4 field women had just as good x 100m reLay team of Lymne, of a day as Kim had a PR Deb Danforth, Shortcake md throw of 19.66 m in the Sandy, finished second witll a javelin and a mark of 23.11 m. time of 4:44.5. in the discus. Natalie looked In the field event, the women strong in both of her jup1ping excelled once again, finisf:iiflg events as sherecotdedmarks of the day with two firsts, two 4.12 m in the long jump and s.econds. a fourth ~d a fifth. 8.55 min the triple jump. Deb Alix Gol~~ch,midt gav.e Umi.On . also excelled in the triple jump their .two first place_ finishes as as she jumped; bopped and she muscled her way to a first · skipped h.er way to a 8.70 m in ... both fhe javelin and tile mark. hanuner where she achieved This weekend, the women marks of34-.:9S m and25.50 m will be competing t1S&inst the respectively.. She gained a ])est in the state .at the two day second'p1ace honor in the sllot state meet at Ithaca College. T u· N I - 0 R N l--

·\'' \'\:·~ '·'-,.-·~_w __ _ Courtney Lynch drives ta the net agai:nst ·oneonta. Women's lacrosse split two games last week. Rob Ackerman and the Men's Tennis team doml,nated the competition last week in beating Hartwick 6-3 and St. Rose 8-6. May 4, 1989 Hecti;c Schedule, Art Broga Push Men's Track to Strong Showing By HANS SCIIWARZ The Union Men's track team has recently been led by the powerful scoring effort of Art Broga. On Saturday, May 22, the men traveled to Colgate to compete against fifteen other schools in the Colgate Invitational. Sophomore Art Braga is a student at the Albany College of Pharmacy, which is part of the Union University athletic department. Competing in both the long and triple jumps, he netted nine points at Colgate. His 6.54m long jump captured sixth, and 13.74m triple jump, a personal best, took second place overall. Meanwhile, Chip Silver led the runners to strong performances with a 15.9 time in the 110m hurdles, and a split of 53.46 in the 4x400m to help the relay team, also composed of Jeff Simkins, Bob Lindybcrg, and Tom Frisbie, to finish in 3:35.35. Sascha Lewis and Michael Martinez turned in fine efforts. by registering times of 4:26.5 and 4:29.6, respectively, in the 1500m. In the 800m, Bob Lindyberg, Hans Schwarz, and Doug Martocci, all turned in strong performances while fighting gusty, cold winds. Rounding out the top performances in the running events, were Steve Hayes, Tom Frisbie, and Bob Lindybcrg in the 400m, with times of 53.0, 55.5, and 55.2, respectively. In the throwing events, Shawn Mowry was the star for Union with a throw of the 16 pound weight of 32.46, a personal best. Last Wednesday, the Union Open was another bright spot for the Dutchmen. Personal bests were the order of the day. in the 800m, Doug Martocci, Sascha Lewis, and Hans Schwarz, all achieved personal records, with times of 2:08.0, 2:08.3, and 2: 10.2. Michael SPORTS WEEK lHURSDAY, May 4 Women's Softball vs. North Adams Women's Lacrosse vs. Hartwick JV Women's Lacrosse vs. Hartwick FRIDAY, May 5 3:30 Away 7:00 Away 8:30 Away Men's Baseball vs. Rochester (Doubleheader) Men's Golf Men's Lacrosse Men's Baseball Womens' Softball Men's Tennis Men's Baseball Men's Lacrosse 2:00 Away vs. Middlebury i :00 Away vs. Clarkson (ECAC Playoff) 4:00 Away SATURDAY, May 6 vs. Hobart (Doubleheader) 1:00 Away vs. Russell SAGE (Doubleheader) 11:00 Home vs. Oneonta 1 :00 Away MONDAY, May 8 vs. Skidmore vs. Albany TUESDAY, May 9 3:00 Away 3:30 Home Men's Baseball vs. Williams 3:00 Away 3:30 Home 5:00 Home Women's Lacrosse vs. Williams JV Women's Lacrosse vs. Williams Men's Tennis vs. Williams 3:00 Away Martinez and Bob Lindyberg also recorded similar feats, with times of 4:23.3 and 4:25.9, respectively. In addition to his state qualifying time in the 200m of 23.0, Steven Hayes recorded a 51.8 in the 400m and a 11.3 in the 100m. Finally, the remaining personal best was Jim Campoli's personal best in the 3000m racewalk. The student support was very encouraging to all those participating. The next home meet will be the Union Spring Classic on May 19. This past Saturday, the Dutchmen traveled to Hartwick to compete in their fifth meet in only fourteen days. The field event crew helped propel Union with two strong first place finishes. They included Art Braga leaping 6.53 in the long jump and Tom Lombardoni throwing a personal best in the javelin of 49.64. Putting lhe shot 14.02, qualified Matt Guyette for the state meet in two weeks. Art Braga also jumped to a third in the triple jump with 13.15. Shawn Mowry was another pillar of Union strength with his javelin throw, a personal best of 38.84. In the running competitions, Bob Lindyberg's seasonal best in the 800m in 2:01.9 clinched second place and Michael Martinez's personal best in the 3000m steeplechase of 10:24.5 were demonstrations of the Dutchmen's ability. Steven Hayes took a second in the 200m, with 23.3 and came back with a third in the 400m in 51.3. Although the recent meets seem to have taken its toll on some longer distance runners, Sascha Lewis captured a fourth place with his personal best in the 1500m of 4:19.5. Lady Tracksters End Season On High Note By SHORTCAKE The women's track team had a busy schedule last week as they finished up a very successful outdoor season. Last Wednesday, tile Union Open and then on Sattirday, they t:raveled to Hat:twick to run in the Hartwick Invitational. In both meets, the women had a strong showing~ IJroving they are ready for their upcoming post season com.petition. At the Union Open, the women had a da:y ef odd events as many comJ>eted in races outside of thei,r speciality. Sandy Anselme.nt, who is usually a distance runner, tried her hand at two hurdle races and did suprisingly well. In the 100 m high hurdles, Sandy powered her way to a follltll place finish in 19.5 seconds. She then came back to take seco11d in the 400 m intermediate hurdles with a time of 1:15.4. In the 400 m dash, Lynne Erdman, who has excelled at m~my different events this year, finished with a respectable time of 64.7. Denise McMillan followed with a time of 6645. Rika Poor blew away the competition in the 100m dash with a time of 13 .0 seconds. In the last running event of the day, the 4 x. 100 m relay team of Lynne, Deb Danforth, Shortcake and Sandy, finished second with a time of 4:44.5. In the field event, the women excelled once again, finishing the day with two firsts, two seconds, a fourth and a fifth. Alix: Goldschmidt gave Union their two first place finishes as she muscled her way to a first in. both the javelin and the hammer where she achieved marks of 34.98 m and 25.50 m respectively. Slle gained a second ·place honor in the shot Io T N put with a 10.44 m heave and, to end the day, twirled her way to a fifth place finish in the discus with a toss of 29.71 m. In addition, Beth Jewett had a strong disc throw of 27.70 m. In the shot put, Adrien Bagatelle had a 7.25 m throw. Sandy, when she was not running, could be found at the high jump pit where she jumped her way to a second place finish over a 1.28 m high bar. In the long jump, Natalie earned fourth place honors by jumping 4.14 m. At the Hartwick Invitational, the women spent the day in the rain, something they have become accustomed to doing, and put forth some of their best performances all season. In the 800 m run, Sandy ran a PR (personal record) for the season as she crossed the line fourth with a time of 2:27.6. Deb also ran a strong 800 m and followed close behind in 2:36. Lynne missed the school record by one second as she ran a PR the 1500 m run in 5:06. Rika, the team's freshman sensation, blew away her closest rival, along with the rest of the field, to clock an incredible 59.2 second 400 m and rack up yet another PR for the day. The field women had just as good of a day as Kim had a PR throw of 19.66 m in the javelin and a mark of 23.11 m in the discus. Natalie looked strong in both of her jumping events as she recorded marks of 4.12 m in the long jump and 8.55 m in the triple jump. Deb also excelled in the triple jump as she jumped, hopped and skipped her way to a 8.70 m mark. This weekend, the women will be competing against the best in the state at the two day state meet at Ithaca College. R Ts

; • ! ! ., ·' CONCORDJENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT 'c.oncordiensis · would.like to welcome you to Union's campus. We hope you will take advantage of th1s opp-ortunity to Je~n more about Union's academics, activiti:es, and campus life in general. We encourage you to find the time to explore the Arts department, meet yo11r son's and daughter's professors, and take in a rugby match, as well as enjoy the elusive spring weather. This. insert includes a schedule and is designed t:o entice you into participating in the various activ:tties. Enjoy your weekend! Page A r------------------------------------ .. 1 Subscribe to Concordiensis for the 1989-90 schooll 1year. 1 I I I . I 1· Name: 1 I I I I I ~dd[ess: I I · I I I 1 You will receive 24 issues for $30. 1 1 Checks should be made payable to 1 I 'Concordiensis'. . . I 1 Forms and payment can be placed In the I I Concordiensis mailbox,. 3rd floor, College Center I I or sent to P.O. Box 2577, Union College, Schenectady, I ~~~~~ I ~--~--~~--~-------~---------------~

CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT Page A • • ' ' • • • c • • • : • .\' ;· • • • : ~ • • • Concordiensis would like to welcome you to Union's campus. We hope you will take advantage of this opportunity to learn more about Union's academics, activities!> and campus life in general. We encourage you to find the time to explore the Arts department, meet your son's and daughter's professors, and take in a rugby match, as well as enjoy the elusive spring weather. 1\'his insert includes a schedule and is designed to entice you into participating in the various activities. Enjoy your weekend! iii ' .,,~ -· t: .: ·~ -~· .. --------------~--,------------------, 1 Subscribe to Concordiensis for the 1989-90 school~ 1 year. 1 I I I I I Name: I I. I I I I Address: I I I I I 1 You will receive 24 issues for $30. 1 1 Checks should be made payable to 1 I 'Concordiensis'. I 1 Forms and payment can be placed in the I I Concordiensis mailbox, 3rd floor, College Center I I or sent to P.O. Box 2577, Union College, Schenectady, I I NY 12308 I ._ _______________ . _______ . ___________ ..

PageB CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT Parents' Wee· Scfteifu{e FRIDAY,. MAY ·12 c 5-7pm 1 7pm 7pm 7,9,11 pm 8prn 8pm Parents' REgistration: Pick up scltedule, sign in, enjoy refrEShments and Camp Union Videos Blatchford Oratorical Contest Piano and Dan<;~ Program (refreshnie:nts) Film - MISSJSSIPPI ~URNING Mounteban:ks Theater Production- IT WAS A DARK AND STORMY NIGHT (a series of one act plays) .. · Tickets requaired in advance Speaker's Forum - G. GORDON LIDDY Old Chaper SS,.Q16 Performing Arts Studio College Center Auditorium Nott Memorial Memorial Chapel SATURDAY, MAY 13 9 am-Noon 9-11 am 9 am-Noon Parents' Registration Pick up program schedule, sign in, enjoy ref:reshrnents and Camp Union Videos Educational Studies Program (Prepare f()r Teaching) Admission~ interviews for sons and daughters of Union parents (Appointments 370-6112) 9-11 am COFFEE AND DONUTS AVAILABLE 9:30-10:30am Parents' Committee Meeting 9:30-11 am Academic Division and Department 10-11 am lOam Open Hou~es . *DIVISION I (Humanities) *DIVISION li· (Social Sciences) *DIVISION IV (Engineering and Computer Science) · *CHEMISTRY *BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT *STATISTI:CS LAB (free software and refreshments) *PSYCHOLOGY DEPARTMENT Jewish Student Union - Speaker - Frof. Stephen Berk 10 am-Noon Stanley G. Peschel Computer Center- 10:30-Noon 10 am-4 pm 11 am 11:30-1:30 Noon 12:30-1:30 1pm lpm 1-2pm 1-3pm 1:30-3 pm 2pm 2pm 2pm 2pm Open Hottse Schaffer Lib1ary Open House The speda.l collections of the library will be on display. Arts Department- Student Exhibition Prize Day Ce:remony Awards ari€ presented to students for outstanding achievements in academics, athletics, and service to the College. Picnic to benefit Union Day Care Center (In the even_t of rain - ,event cancelled) Dutch Pipets and Garnet Minstrelies Career DeveLopment · Karate Dem()n.stration Men's Rugby Fencing Dem()rtstration Gospel Ensemble Performance WRUC Ice C:ream Social Concert Bartd The Japan E>tperience The Chinese Experience IDOL - Poetry Reading (In the event of rain .... CC41 0) Old Chapel HU~020 Becker Hall Library Plaza ·Milano Lounge HU-Lounge SS-Lounge S&E-N205 S&E-5330 S&E-51103 SS-001 PSY-2104 ss.:1os Computer Center Schaffer Libr~ry Arts Building Memorial Chapel .... Library Plaza Memorial Chapel Steps CDC-3rd floor . West Beach Library Field Library Plaza Old Chapel Chester Arthur Memorial Chapel HU-019 HU-014 Jackson's Garden I

CONCORDJENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT Parents' Wee 2:~0-3:30 pm 3:30-4:30 pm: 3-4pm 3-4pm 4:30-5:30 pm 5:30 p:tn 7-9 prn 7, 9,-11 pm 8pm 8pm 8pm 9 PI.J.1~2 am . 10pm-Mid- night . 10 am 10-noon &Noon-2pm lOam-4 pm Noon-1 pm > Scfiec[u[e Weekend ·Seminar~ *WOMEN AND SCIENCE AT UNION: 55-104 A PANEL DISCUSSION Prof. Janet Anderson (Chemistry) Prof. Barbara Boyer (Biology) Prof: Roset Khosropour . (Physics) Prof. Susan Niefield (Mathematics) *WHAT DOES IT .MEAN TO BE MODERN?HU-115 A HUMANIST'S PERSPECTIVE Prof. Peter Heinegg (English) *APPEALS TO IMAGES AND CLAIMS HU-114 ABOUT QUALITY: UNDERSTANDJN·G THE PSYCHOLOGY ·OF ADVERTISING Prof. Kenneth DeBono (Psychology)· *FRENCH INSTRUCTION FOR .THE HU-019 VIDEO GENERATION Prof. Leroy Day (Modern Languages) *CHAOS AND FRACTALS: NEW IDEAS 55-112 ABOUT OLD IMAGES Prof. Michael Frame *SOCIOLOGICAL CHANGE IN THE 55-1(}3 'YUPPY' GENERATION ·Prof. Martha Huggins (Sociology) HU-115 *THE. GENESIS· 'OF GenE.d FOR THE NINETIES: THE CURRICULAR DEBATE AT UNION Prof~ Adrian Frazier (English) Prof. Anton Warde (Modern Languages, GenEd Director) ' - DANCE CLUB PRESENTS LEGACY RECEPTION President's Reception for Parents, students, faculty and staff Dutchmen's Night Dinner - Reservations Required in Advance BLAS - Dance Group · Film - MISSISSIPFI BURNING Union College Choii: and Orchestra (Beethoven, Handel, , Ravel, Borodin)_ Dutchmen's Night Dinner Reservations. Required in Advance Mountebanks Theater Production - IT WAS A DARK AND STORMY NIGHT (a series of one act plays) Tiekets required in advance BLASI A9P Reception Student Cabaret-Performance Performing Arts Studio CC-203 Library Plaza (alternate- Achilles Rink) College Center Atrium Hale House DR Old Chapel S5-016 Memorial Chapel College Center Atrium (groqnd floor) Nott Memorial Hale House DR Old Chapel SUNDAY, MAY 14 Religious Services - Pick up schedule at ~egisttation . - Ecumenical Worship Service Mother's Day Brune~- Reservation Required in Advance Arts Department- Student Exhibition Uni:on College jazz Ensemble Performance CC-410 College Center Upperclass Dining (2nd. floor) Old Chapel & HHDR Arts Building Memorial Chapel EVENTS IN BOLDFACE ARE ADDITIONS/CHANGES TO THE ORIGINAL SCHEDULE PageC

'PageD CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT ( UNION REVTEW OF BOOKS On f\A:oli\day, May .22, 1989 the poet Judith Hemschem:eyer wil'l read from her work at 8:00 pm in the Humanities Lounge at Union College. Ms. Hemschemeyer's book of poe:ms, The Ride !H·ome was tha 1986 AWP Poetry Prize W:inner. Other book.s ·include Very Close and Very Slow and I Remembe:r The· Room Was Filled With :Li.ght, both from Wesleyan University Press. She has recently co:mpleted a book of translations of the poems of the legendary Russian poet Anna Akhmatova. This free program is sponsored by the English Department and ldol magazine. · · Rachel and Her Children 1 Co-Winner Robert F. Ken11edy Memor·ial Book Award 1989 By Jonathan Kozol May 17 Mobil Lounge 4tlz Floor 1:00 p.m. Moderator: PrQjessor Donileen Loseke, Director of Women's Studies **The May selection is now on sale at the College Bookstore for $4.50 'whiclt 'is half of the regular price. est Los Angeles $99 roundtrip Phoenix $99 roundtrip Denver $99 roundtrip Chicago $99 roundtrip Seattle $99 1'0undtrip Miami $99 roundtrip A special offer for students, only fbr American Express·Cardmembers. If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines only for full-time students who carry the American Express Card ./ Travel privileges that offer: \8 l'wo $99roundtriptickets-· fly to many of NORTiiWEST the m~re than 18~ cities served ~y North- AIRLINES westm th~conttguous48Umted.states. LOOK TO us Only one ttcket may be used per SIX- month period. Special Quarterly Northwest Destination Disrounls' throughout 1989-up to 25% offmost available fares. 5, 000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS@) free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 l)nited States or Canada-uvon enrollment through this special student offer. And, of cours{J, you'll enjoy all til€ exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from AmeriCan Express. , The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu- d~nt, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the· card.* Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. Just calll-800-942-AMEK We'll take yom application and begin to process it. righ.taway. What's more, with our Automatic · Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in school. Apply now. Fly Later -. forless. Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX *Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines: Tickets must be purchased Within 24 b.ours after making reserVations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be · made after purchase. Seats at this fate are limited and may not be availai>Je when you Gall. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between cities to which N1>rthwest does not have direct connections or routings. City fueltax surcharges not included in fare from Bostotl ($2. 50), Chicago ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and other restrictions may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current student Ca.rdmembets automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the AnAmri<an E~<P<•sse<Hnpliny mail. © 1989 American Express Travel Related SeJVices Company, Inc-. _,

Invites you to join us for our Fifth Annual CON.· CORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEBKEND SUPPLEMENT . . - . . . Fri·d:ay, M.ay 12 1989 · $ . 50 draft beer Mixed Drinks and Cocktails Live 00 8 Dancing $2.00 Admission Proof of Age Required Ptopec Attire Requested Parents Welcome ''I dotlt want a lot of hype. I just,want .something I can count on_.,_, Some long distance companies promise you the moon, but what you really want is dependable, high-quality service. That's just what you'll get when you choose AT&T Long Distance Service, at a cost that's a lot less than you think. You can expect low long .distance rates, 24-hour operator assistance, clear connections and immediate credit for wrong numbers. And the assurance that virtually all of your calls will go through the first time. That's the genius of the AT&T Worldwide Intelligent Network. When it's time to choose, forget the gimmicks and make the intelligent · choice-AT&T. If youtllike to know more about our products or services, like Intemational Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1 800 222-0300. A TaT The right choice. PageE ·CONGRATULATIONS NEW GATESMEN: NEW HEAD GATESMEN: KRISTEN ALLISON '90 JEFF SIMKIN '90 1. Edwin Adeson '91 2. Stephanie Budlong '91 3. Usa Carlson '90 4. Jill Cochran '90 5. Andrew Conway '91 6. Peter Cowles '91 7. Julie Davis '91 8. Brian· Desmarais '91 9 .. Jill Deutsh '90 1 o. Eric Duchscherar '90 11. Amanda Flink '90 12. Jay Freeland '91 13. Nena Gajjar '91 14. Amy Goldstein '91 15. Kathleen Gorman '91 16. Daniela Hoffman '92 17. Lynn Hyde '91 18. Barbara Jensen '91 19. laura Justus '91 20. Amy Kantrovitz '91 21. Lauren Karg '91 22. Peter Katz '91 23. Gary Lambert '91 24. Cathy Lee '91 25. Rachel Levine '91 26. Mike Martinez '91 27. Kerry McKibbin '90 28. John Meier '91 29. Eric Miller '91 30. Michelle Montoney '90 31. leslie Morris '90 32. Kathryn Morrison '91 33. Judy Park '92 34. Lisa Plotnik •91 35. Herrika Poor '92 36. Sue Porell'91 37. Mike Rolnik 38. Maggie Schneiderman '91 39. Mike Schulitz '90 40. Courtney Shapiro '91 41. Nina Smilari '91 42. Elizabeth Sorkenn '91 43. Megan Stamper '91 44. lisa Stillman '91 45. Beth Swaggert '91 46. Ellen Tapley '90 47. Jennifer Wallace '92 50. Drew Ward '91 51. Beth Welch '92 52. Sarah Wilcox '90 53. Cheryl Yanofsky '91 FREE SOFTWARE FREE FOOD Come to the: SOCIAL SCIENCES STATISTICS LAB PARENTS WEEKEND OPEN HOUSE Saturday Morning 9:30-11:00 am Social Sciences OOi Attention Mask Makers! If you participated in mask making event during the fall~ your face has returned1 Please pick up your creations ASAP in College Center 407, 8:30 am- 5:00 pm.

~ ~I ~· ~ ~ \'.:! ~ ~· t;;'l ~ ~ f.;;~ ~ ~ ~ £::! Q :5 ~ 8 !:I. E :LJ.J.- :1. l:'laAa J.J.VJ.Yli'll J..J?v MER-162·01- Thermal Energy Conversion- F. Wicks- NWSE 210 MTH..018-01 - Intro to Logic and Set Theory - A. Taylor- BAIL 106 MTH-119..:01 - Topics in Discrete Mathematics .. S. Niefield .. BAIL 100 PHL .. l6l-01- Philosophy of Language- J. Ludwig.- IIUl4N 213 ~~~~t~1 ~ ~:a~~~~cl~~~~ P!·a!:'::-a~~!~. Frome~ snit 106 PHY-126-01 .. Nuclear & Particle Physics .. R. Magahiz -NWSE 12 . POR-010-01 .. Basic Portuguese I- J. Weinstein- HUMN 014 PSC-010-01- Introduction to Politics- D. Rejati- SSCI 016 PSC-054-01- Chinese Foreign Policy ... D. Thurston- SSCI 112 PSY-0~2-01 -Sensation & Perception .. H.. Foley- PVCH 113 SOC..:Ol0-'02 ... Introduction to Sociology- M. Huggins .. SSCI 103 SPN-121-01- Intermediate Spanish U ~ P. Moyano- SSCI 110 SPN-121-02., Intermediate Spanish II- P. Moyano- SSCI 110 ·, ·TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. ARS .. 04.l-Ol - introduction to Music, Part II - H. A. Wilson - ARTS 215 BI0•024-01 - Genetics & Evolution - J. Boyer - BAIL 207 BI0-130-01- Comparative Animal Physiology- F. Lambert- BAIL 201 CER .. 132-01- Reinforced Concrete Design- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM-134\01- OrsganicChemistry III- L. McGahey- S'IZH 10I CLS-043-01 - Classical Mythology - C. Sorum - HUMN 019. EC0-052-01- Women in the Economy- L. Cavallpzzo- SSCI014 EGL-018-02 - Introduction to Literary Forms - W. Hathaway SSCI 117 EGL-051-01- Chaucer- A Scott- HOMN 114 · ESC·010-Q2- :Mechanics l- f', King- NWSE 116 FRN-121-01 - Intermediate French U. L. Day - HUMN 014 GER-012-0t ~Basic Gennan Ill- K. Hamm~Ehsani .. BAIL 20S GER-122•01 • Advanced German .. S. Kellen~r • HUMN 112 HST\051 ~01 -Modern Germany 1815-1939- M. Walker~ SSCI 112 HST-058.:01- The Holocaust-S. Berk- SSCI 016 MER-040-02 .. Engineering Design I - M. Rivera- NWSE 210 MTH-028-01 -Probability\\ J. Hefferon~ BA..IL 104 MTH-101-01 - Advanced Calculus for Engrs. - A. Seiken - BAIL 106 MTH-134-..01- Differential Equations- S. Perera- BAIL 203 MTH-170·01 u Topology I. .. M. Frame- BAIL 102 PIJL-011 .. 01- F'hilosophical Classics- L. Patrik- HUMN UO PHL-078-01 .. Technological Values .. S. Kaminsky- HUMN 115 PHY--013-03 -Introduction to Physics II .. IK. Schick- NWSE 114 PSY-010-03- A First Course in Psychology- D. Morier -.PYCH 113 PSY -020-01 - Statistical Methods in Psycbol - L. St.aq.hope - PYCH 213 RUS-012-01- Basic Russian III- S. Hash- HUMN 113 SPN-01-01- Bawsic Spanish II- R. Vinick- HU;MN 116 RUS-132-01 - The Russian Short Story - N. Jernakoff- HUMN 213 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 ~ 1:00-3:00 P.M. ANT-010-01- Intro to Cultural Anthropology- T. Gordon- HUMN 019 ARS-133-01- Modem ARt, Patt II- D. Robbins- ARTS 215 BI0-018-01- Introduction to Biology II- M. Frohlich -SSCI -16 BI0-170~01- General Endrocrinology- G. Butterstein- BAIL 201 CER-035-01- Water REsources & Environment- P. Snot- BUTR 106 CER-131-01- Structural Steel- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM .. Q40-0l ~Quantitative ChemiStry- T. Werner- BAIL 205 CHM-152-01- Physic&l Chemistry U- J. Anderson~ BUTR 104 CSC-037-01- Structured Programming- D. Hannay- BAIL 106 CSC-154-01- VLSI System Design- G. Williams- S1ZH 106 EC0-012-01- Introduction to Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 112 EC0~31-0l- Microeconomic Analysis- L. McCarthy- SSCI 012 EER-154-01- VLSI System Design- G. Williams- S1ZH 106 EGL-071-0 1 - Irish Renaissance Literature - A. Frazier \ HUMN 115 ESC-026-01 -Thermodynamics- W. Aubrey- NWSE 2i0 ESC-026-02 - Thermodynamics -C. S. Reddy .. ALUM 307 ESC-033-01- Flt1id Systems Analysis- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 FRN-012-01 - Basic French Ill - S. Croigny- HUMN 116 · FRN-139-01- Survey of French Literature II- C. Laparra- HUMN 112 GE0-010-01 - Physicasl Geology - G. Shaw - :BUTR 204 GER-121-01- Intermediate German I- D. Lund- SSCI 105 HST-014-01 - Hist. of U.S. since Civil War-M. Jonas- SSCI 104 C.HM-016-01 - Inorganic Chemistry I - C. Weick - BAIL 201 CSC-010-01- Computers & Computing- G. Marten- STZH 108 EC0~33-0l- Environmental Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 112 EGL-078~01 - Engl Lang Struct: Linguistics - A. Nelson - HUMN 114 ESC-010-01- Mehanics I· Y. K. Lee· BUTR 109 ESC-020-01 - Mechanics II - D. Bunk - NWSE 222 FRN-011-01 - Basic Fl'iench II - R. Merini - HUMN 110 FRN-122~01 - Advanced French - C. Laparrn- HUMN 213 GER~Oll-01- Basic GvrmaQ li-D. Lund- HUMN 117 GER-132-01 ·The GennanNovelle- A. Warde- HUMN 106 GER-142-01 - Romantik und Realismus- A. Warde- HUMN 106 GRK-012-01 - Greek Reading - C. Sorum - HUMN 119 HST-052-01 -Modem France 1815-1945 -E. Hansen- SSCI 104 . :MER-040-01 - Engineering Design I - H. Lyons .. NWSE 21Q ,MTH-124-01-- Geometry- A. Seiken- BAIL 104 PHY-013-01- Introduction to Physics ll- R. Khosropour- NWSE 114 PHY-014-01- Elements of Modern Physics- K. Schick- BAIL 203- PHY -054-01 - Statistical Thermodynamics Ma:leki - BAIL 205 PSY-010-01- A First Course in Psychology- D. Spring .. PYCH 102 PSY-038-01- Developme~tal Psychoology- L. Stanhope- PYCH 213· PSY-047-01- Intro to Health Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 213 SPN-122..:01 -Advanced Spanish- M. Ruiz- HUMN 0:14 THURSDAY, JUNE 8 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. CHN-010-01 -Basic Ghinese I - L. Gao- HUMN 113 l'IL-010-01 -Basic Ita]ian I - M. Keyes- HUMN 116 I1L·Ol0·02 • BasicltaJlian I· M. Kbyes • HUMN 116 MTH-012-01 .. Calculus II- J. Muckenfuss- BAll.. 207 MTH-014-Q1 - Calculus III- J. Barbanol- 13AIL 102 MTH-014-02 - Calculus ill - S. Perera- BArr, 104 MTH-014-03 .. Calculus III- J. Barbanel- BAIL 100 MTH-021-01 - Math M~thods Social Science 2 - A. Taylor - 100 MTH-021-02- Math Methods Social Science 2 -J. Hefferon- 203 MTH-021-03 - Math Methods Social Science 2 - A. Prindle - 3123 MTH-030~01 - Ordin Differential Equations - K. Rosenthal- BAIL 201 MTH-030-02 - Ordin Differential Equataioos - J. Muckenfuss - BAIL 207 MTH-030-03 .. Ot.din Diffetential Equations - K. rosMthal- BAIL 201 THURSDAY, JUNE 8 • 1:00 .. 3:00 P.M. CHM-010-01 .. Fundamental Chemistry I .. J. Sowa -BUIR 109 CHM-0 10-02 - Fundamental Chemistry I - J. Sow a - BUTR 109 CHM-010~03 - Fundamental Chemistry I - R. Shchaefer - BUTR 104 CHM-012~01- Fundamental Chemistry II- D. Hayes- BUTR 204 CHM-012-02- Fundamental Chemistry II- W. martin .. BUTR 300 CSC-011-01- Program for'Social Sciences- J. Castleberry- BAIL 201 CSC-011-02- Program for Social Sciences- J. Casf.\ebetty- BAll. 201 PSY-068-'01- Sen Seminar in Clinical Probs-T. Dowling- PYCH 213 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMONEXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: MONDAY, JUNE 5 • 4:30-6:30 P.M. CSC-077-01- Data Structures- L. Spallholz- NWSE CSC-077-51 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 1:30-3:30 P.M. STA-202,.-51- Statistical- Methods- J. Lambrinos- BAIL 312 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 4:40-6:.30 P.M. EER-036-01- System Theory II- V. Fatic- BAIL 207 EER-036-02 EER-036-51 CSC-014-01- Information Processing- D. Cossey- S1ZH 106 CSC-144-01- functional Programmin;g- N. M. Mazur- NWSE 112 CSC-144-51 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 - 4:30-6:30 P.M. CHM-118-01- Inorganic Chemistry II- C. Scaife- NWSE 222

0 ~ ~ ~ ~' ~ t;:j ~ ~ tlo.:l. ~ -~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Q..;_ ~ ~ ~- .... fZ. 8 ~ 8 \ ,fJ 1988-89 SPRING TERM FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE IMPORTANT: This exam schedule is primarily for regular, day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52':· courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Friday, May 26th. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS~ Arts Building BAIL • Bailey Hall BUT.R - Butterfield Hall HUMN - Humanities Building NWSE - North Wing, S/E Center PYCH - Psychology Building SSCI ·- Social Science Building STZH - Steinmetz Hall MONDAY; JUNE 5 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. ACC-010~01 n Financial Accounting I-N. Garrod- BAIL 207 BI0-164-01- Ethology~ C. George- BAIL 201 EC0-012-02- Introduction to Economics- T. McCarty- HUMN 019 EC0-042-01 - Macroeconomic Theory& Policy- E. Motahar- SSCl112 EC0-053·0 1 - The Economy of China - B. Reynolds - SSCI 112 E.GL-040-01 - Literature of the Bible - H. Freund - HUMN 115 EGL-057-01 - Literature of the 17th Century - a. Mciver HUMN 110 ESC-011-01- Engineering Graphics- ,_K. Lee- BUTR 104 HST-063-01- Caribbean & Central Amer Hst- T. Meade- SSCI 010 HST -115--01 .. History of American Families - R. P. Reed - NWSE 112 LLR -070~01 - Afro·Amer & AFrc Women Writers,_ R. Merini- HUMN 112 PHL-07()..01 ,. Philosophy of Law - R. Baker - HUMN 17 . PSC-051·01- American Foreign Policy- C. Gati .. SSCI104 PSC-061-01 -Public Administration- M. Strosberg- BAIL 203 PSY-015-01- fntto Experimental Psychology- H. Foley- PYCH213 SOy-157-01 - work. Occuptns & the Professns - S. Zehr - SSCI 110 MONDAY, JUNE S - 11:15 .. 1:15 P.M. CER-020·01• Introduction to Communications- P, Weiss- BUTR 106 ESC-042-01- Signals & Systems- E. Craig- BU1R 109 ESC-042;..02 - Signals & Systems- .. E. Craig - BUT.R 109 JPN-010-01- Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa .. HUMN 10 PHY-011-01- Introduction to Physics I- A. Anderson- BAIL 207 PHY •011-02 - Introduction to Physics I - A. Anderson - BAIL 207 MONDAY, JUNE S • Z:00-4:QO P.M. r ANT-102-01- Language in Culture & Society- T.Gordon- PYCH204 ARS--088·01 .. Music of Africa - T. W. Ross - ARTS 313 _ EGL-073-01 -Realism & Naturalism .in Am Lit- B. MacDonald- HUMN 117 . ' - . ' ' . . BLL~l2~01 - :Hotrte~ 1 • :Bides 1 & Eet Ptit\cipl~ ~ H. 0. Hatlow- BUTR 300 'P:RN-141·01 - Prench PlillosophimU Prose- L. :Ony- SSCI 104 HST -054-01 - Russia in the Imperial Age - S. Berk - SSCI 104 HST;.085·01·-Histocy,ofMOdemScience .. M.Walker- SSCI 010 JPN-012 .. 01- .. Basic Japanese III - Y .l'fakagawa HUMN U6 · MER-162-01- Thennal Energy Conversion- F. Wicks- NWSE 210 MTH..Ol8-.0l - Intro to Logic and Set Theory - A. Taylor- BAIL 106 MTH-119-01 - Topics in Discrete Mathematics .. S. Niefi.eld .. BAll. 100 PHL .. l62-01- PhilosQphy of Language- J. Ludwig.- IIlJMN 213 ~~~~t~~ ~ ~;a~:1~c~~~~~ ;!·!:C~~~P!~. Fninie ~ sTZH 106 nY.l'V 1,_t= i\1 lt..T .... ..!'l .... n.- D ... n .... -h'...-.1,. D\u'\.: .... ~ . D 'l.Kn.n-nh.:,... .JLrtl.TC'C 1·'1 \ HST-045-01 -The Second World War Era- E. Hansen- SSCI 103 HST-048-01 -Britain: 1688 to the Present- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 110 HST-068-01- Modern Japanese History~ D. Thurston- SSCI 010 LAT-139-01- Roman Satire- M. Tober- HUMN 213 \MER-150-01- Heat Transf Analysis & Design· F. Wicks- BU1R 300 MTH-040M01 -Applied Linear Algebra- W. Zwicker- BAIL 207 PHL-021-01- Symbolic Logic- J. Ludwig- HUMN 114 PHY-013-02- Introduction to Physics II- G. Reich- NWSE 114 PliY-014-02- Element5 Qf Mod.;rn Physics- C. Jones- BAIL 203 PHY -044-01 - Itttroduction to Astronomy - K. Mead - NWSE 112 PHY-049-01- Laser Technology & Modem Optics- J. Newman- NWSE 303 PSY .,.OJ0-02 - A First Course in Psychology - H. Foley - PYCH 113 PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- K. DeBono- PYCH 102 RUS-122-01- Advanced Russian- N. Jemakoff- HUMN 119 SOC-024-01- Social Psychooogy- D. Morier- PYCH 102 SPN~012-01- Basic Spanish III- C. Qualtere- SSCI 014 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 - 8:30-10:30 A.M. BI0-011-01- Topics in Contemporary Biology- K. Williams- BAIL 207 BI0-165-01 -Neural Circuits & Behavior- R. Olberg- BAIL 201 EGL-021-01 -.Major English Authors III- H. Marten- HUMN 114 EGL-056·01- Shakespeare Afater 1600- H. Freund- HUMN 115 ESC-011-02- Engineering Graphics - Y. K Lee- BUTR 104 ESC-013-01 - High Level Lang Programming - L. Almstead - STZH 106 ESC-015-01 -Numerical Methods and Fortran- L. Almstead- STZH 106 GE0-032-01- Petrology- K. Hollocher- BUTR 202 LA T -012-01 - Latin Reading - J. Marincola ~ HUMN 110 LLR-155-01 -Health Care Technology- L. Hull- NWSE 116 MTH-105-01- History of Calculus- W. Stone- BAIL 203' PHL-038-01 - Eastern Philosophy - L. Patrik - HUMN 112 PSC-012-01 - Contemp International Politics - C. Brown - SSCI 104 PSY-024-02- Social Psychology- D. Marier- PYCH 113 PSY-030-01 -Personality- G. Atlas- PYCH 213 ~ PSY-062-01 - Practicum in Human Relations~- 1. Girdner- PYCH 204 SOC-010-01 -Introduction to Sociology- S. Zehr- ·SSCI 103 . SOC-024-02 ~Social Psychology- D. Morier- PYCH 113 SOC-052-01- Issues in American Education- T. Weiner/J. Ludwig- HUMN 016 SPN-136-01- Intro to Latin American Theater- M. Ruiz- HUMN 116 STA-111-01- Intro Sta!tistical Methods II- J. Schmee- BAIL 106 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 • 11:15 A.M.-1:15 P.M. CER-151Bb01 -Hydraulics- T. Jewell,. BUTR 106 EGL-022-01, 02- Major American Authors- B. Wineapple- }IUMN.114 EGL~036-01.- Studies in Special Topics- B. Wineapple -· HtJMN 114 ESC-032-01- Prin of Electronic Instrument- J. Gajjar- NWSE 116 ESC~032~02- Prin of Electronic Instrument- J. Gajjar- NWSE 116 GRK-139-01 -Greek Comedy- J. Marincola • HUMN 213 HEB·Ol2~01 .. Basic Hebrew lli ·D. Hetkelman • HUMN 116 WEDNESDAY, JUNE ''1 - 2:00-4:00 P.M. BI0-023-01 - Cell BioUogy - F. Lambert - SSCI 016 CER-142-01 -Soil Mechanics- G. Gifford- BUTR 300 CHM-016-01- Inorganic Chemistry I- C. Weick- BAIL 201 CSC-010-01- Computers & Computing- G. Marten- STZH 108 EC0-033-01- Environmental Economics- J. Kenney:.. SSCI 112 EGL-078~01 - Engl Lang Struct: Linguistics - A. Nelson ~ HUMN 114 ESC-010-01- Mehanics I· Y. K. Lee· BUTR 109 ESC-020-01 - Mechan~cs II - D. Bunk - NWSE 222 \ODl'••Lf\1 Lf:\1 _ 11'3\; J<'.,.,,.nr>h TT _ \D \llf. - l.:rrTh.iiN llf\ '(>. .. ..

. PageR CONCORDIENSJS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT ELECTION STATEMENTS President David Cohen Are you tired of hearing abollt things that go on in this sc:hool after they happen? It seems to me that a · lot of decisions are made with very Utt.tle .knowledge and p11rticipation on the students' p1.1tt. Most of us found out 1.'Vhat Geltirne was when we receeived our schedule about an ' hour llefore class and noticed that something was d.ifferent. What I can accomplish if eJ.ected (;annot be predicted. What .I can promise is that the students will always be aware of what i:s on the student forum agenda, and they will always 'koow when decisions affecting tli.em are to be made. Leela (Taj) Mulukutla The Student Forum is one of tlle most powerful tools we as students have at Union C·ollc,ge. Allhough in the past tile Student Forum has not mad.e noticeable contributions to tile college community, this year the Forum has made great efforts to become more active on (:ampus. This year the forum addressed such issues as G.eltime~ the Greek meal plan a11d tbe housing policy. As I have been on the student forum I have been involved in the effort to- increase the forum's effectiveness. It is obvious to eV~eryone that the forum has the potential to do even more than Lhis year; however, continuity i.s something which the forum hfi.S l~cked in the past but needs Ln order to be truly effective. Having been a contributing member of the forum, I know I will be able to represent UlliOll 1 Sstudent body. VOTE! submitted which lost in a 8-3 V~P. Of Administration '. vote. This kind of in.itiati ve can be expected of me and with my experience I will be. able t(} be more effective in the position of Vice President of Academics. This is very important during this upcoming year when two major policies are instituted: Mike Schulitz Hello! I'm Mike Schulitz and am running for the position of · Vice President of Administration. I am cur.rently 011 the Committee on Committees, which is headed by the current Vice President. I am familiar with the position and with many of the key College Administrators. I am also on the Planning and Priorities Committee and work with President Morris and his top Administrators. I have a great deal of experience and a clear understanding of what the position entails. I will have a smooth transition into the office and ask for your support. V.P. Of Academies Keith Bemis ' '\ My experience as a member of the Academic Affairs Council for the past two years, Academic Affairs Subc(}uncil on Courses & Programs for the . past two years, Academic Affairs Council Liaison to the General Education Board for one year, and Academic Affaits Subcommittee on Geltime for one year, will enable me t(} provide the students of Union Cbllege a voice of continuity alld knowledge in discussing future issues of the Academic Affairs CounciL I have also been a member of the Student Forum for two years as Class Representative in my Freshman and Sophomore years. While being a member of the Academic Affairs Council and its subcommittees, I bave constantly fought for the .Views of the students. In the Gel time discussion, the proposal that was recommended by the A<:ademic Affairs Council was up against a proposal that I General Education and: Writing Ac:ross the Curriculum. 'The students need .this type cf voice representing them to ,be most effe~tive in policy-making on the Academic Affairs ·council, especially with the policies that I have seen enacted or are being discussed as a member of · · the Academic Affairs Council and oth~r committees dealing with Union's academics: General Education, Writing Across the Curriculu,m, Staffing, Educational Studies, Women's Studies, East Asian \ Studies, Religious Studies, Faculty Staffing, Geltime '· Review, calendar, and Major/Minors. Vote for Keith Bemis for Vice President for Academic Affairs on Friday, May 12. Experienced in representing you. Elizabeth Berliner Having served Student Forum throughout the past year in the role of Secretary, I have gained knowledge not only of the Forum as a. whole, but specifically of the Academic Affairs Council. In the future~ the council will be . evaluating the implementation of a Major/Minor program; I would be thrilled to be a part of this ,process. In additon, I am strongly interested in the further development of newly specialized programs including Far Eastern Studies and Religious Studies. I would be truly honored to receive this position, but more importantly, just remember to vote on Friday. Let's make the Forum a truly representative body. v 0 T E v.·.p. Of Financ.e handled proper.ly. As Vice President I would work with the Finance Committee to determine the pareto~optimai allocation. In other words, I would find a distribution where everyone is made as well off as the circumstances will allow. ·. In order to be effective, however, l would need a · ,committee that is responsive and sensitive to the . organization's demands as wen as dedicated to finding reasonable budgets. Ta do this, I would use the experience I gained as Junior, Senior and Permanent Class President of John Jadhon •. my high school. In these positions I was confronted with a lot p:f the same My name is John Jadhon and I am running for Vice President of finances. The Vice President · is the chairman of the financial committee and your financial representative to the student forum. It is this committee that oversees the allocation of approximately three hundred thousand dollars and makes sure that it is used efficiently. As I went around getting · signatures for my petition several people questioned me as to why their club or organization was. either denied · funding or given substantially · less than they requested. I believe there is no reason ·for this. Of course everyone can't . be c0mpletely satisfied but they should aU know the reasoning behind the decision. If I am elected I would make communication a top priority. I feel that in order to be effective in this position a ·person must have a good understanding of what is . expected of him and be well in tune with campus attitudes in · general. Through my involvement in the orientation committee, scholars weekend :committee and the greek system I feel that I fulfill these qualifications and could do the job well. Thank you and please rem em bet to vote. Mark Richter The position I am running for is Vice President for Finance. If elected I would be· responsible for the annual budgeting and monthly auditing of student activities and organizations. It doesn't take an economics major, although I am, to see that this is no simple task. As rm sure most of you reading this are aware of, there is .an over- abundance of demand for funds of a limited supply. This can create a real problem if not · · circumstances-! worked with a council to detel'fQine student;s needs and used this information to allocate funds in the best way possible given. our monetary constraint. I realize that the position of Vice President will demand a . good deal of time and effort if it is to be done properly. It is for this, reason that I hope you vote for me, Mark Richter. With your vote and my hard work, I will ensure that no one willlose .. Junio·r Trustee John Meier . My name is John Meier and I'm running for Junior Trustee. The position of Student Forum Representative to the Board of Trustees is an important ·One. The office requires that student views and concerns be heard by the Board. Moreover, the job is a two way street. The Student Trustee must, also, inform the students as to the issues confronting the Board and the policies which they implement. The Forum needs a person who will effectively communicate between the Board and the students. I believe that through my diverse interests and past experience on the Student Forum that I will better serve the student body. Solutions can come about but only through active representation. Vote tomorrow and elect John Meier. Don't Compl11in Next Year ••• VOTE TOMORROW .1 1 !

! l I CONCORD!ENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT Page I ELECTION ST ATEME:NTS Sophomor·e ·Class 'Representatives Brendan Clifford The~e ar~ many reasons f()l' my wanting to be a sophotn()re class represent!.~ve. First, I have had an interest in how tile student forum functions to provid~ fcH our s.tudent body and particll'larly the sophom()!e class. S.econd, I want to give the sopl!omore class dedicated represe11tation in the stude11t forum. ~ The decisions that colll~ from the ·student forum ate important ones that affect yell and me. J served as cl~s represelitative in high school, therefoFe t assume the systeJtJ. is similar with a little moJe ' comple.:xity. If elected, I car1 gain knowledge concerning this decision-n~aking process &n!l help illfluence it in a gooti direction. . Most importantly, I want to provide good representation f~r opr dass. My position as representative. if elected, wotrlcl come fhst because of its importance to every- sophomore. Finally, as aa elect~d representative of Oll!:' class, I would try to prom<:>te the well being of, not only oul' class·, but the entire school. In high school, I served ig various leadership positions in athletics and stude11t . organizations, such as representative and busine.ss administrator. I would like to continlle my involvement io , student representation ill . college, but. to do this I netld your V<>te. lf elected, I promise to he a dedicated reprsentative of the class of 1992. Thank you. Take The lime To VOTE.· Tomorrow· .Seth EIHs It was once stated that after · the orientation meeting at Ola Chapel, that the next time the class of '92 will be together will be at graduatioll. We migh~ not be physically together, hut we must act as a whole. ·We now have three years left at Union and we the class of '92 should make the best of it! As. a ·class rep:resent<ltive I want to be in the forefront helping to make decisions and to see them impientented. · This is why I am asking you to vote for me as class representative. I have the energy and motivation t(} make Union the type of sch()ol that the student b6dy wants. We need to express oursel-ves and the best way to do so is through tlie. student foFum. I want to be your represeatation and I want to be the one to express YOUR ideas. Help me to make Union the school that we want it t() be! VOTE FOR SETH ELLIS FOR SOPHOMORE CLASS REPRESENTATIVE Aram Fuchs ,Recently I have. bee11 asked, . \Wfiat have you done <In the , Student Forum?\ My aiJsWer: · \nothing.\. There is not one concrete proposal that will • change Union dramatically that I have initiated at the Student • Forum .. I do· not have the experience at Union (()1 that, yet.. No Freshman bas the experience· yet. It is absurd to think otherwise. What I have done ·is listen to what yoll have . · to say aad then express those opinions at the Forum meetings. A lot of yoll know where I will be practiclllly every Wednesday, Friday and Saturday night. Come talk to me if you have a problem or a.. · sugg~stion to make Union a 'better place. If I remember I will bring it up at the next meeting, if not the immediate one after that. (Just A Joke.) have learned from these experiences has prepared me to continue this work as your Sophomore Class • · Representative. I feel th~t in my experience, a meaningful dialogue does exist between the Administration and student i I bo~y on stu~e?t affa~s. I have ·,·acllvelypafUCtpated m matters ·involving student affairs and J:essica Gray .Hello. My name is Jessica Gray and I am running for the position of Sophomore Class Representative. As Class , Representative, I will have the , power to evaluate present · issues as well as propose new · policies. I hope to bridge the : gap between the administration and the student body with more collaboration of social and acaaemic interests. Union has a · lot of good things going for it. but as with all great things-. there is always room for a little improvement. Being the victim · of a break-in, I feel strongly ; that students' safety must be discussed. I feel th.e requirements of the meal plan, · as well as the administration's policy towards the greek · system, ought to be reviewed. These are just a few of the · topics I would like to see addressed in the upcoming scho9l year. As S6phmore Class Representative I will do just that... represent YOUR opinions and positions on the i~sues concerning the college and the student body. I have the energy to make Union all that it can be. And with your vote. I will! Photographs By Chris Will:iams ' :have established my credibility · and sincerity in dealing with ': these issues. I would like to 9 . ·continue to be an active voice, ·: oa behalf of our class. in the • coming year. I ask that you re- Jon Lennon . elect me as your Class Representative so that I may · build on the progress we have It has been only 13 weeks: 111ade as a class and members of since I took office as your .. this college community. Class President. During th~t time, on your behalf, I have: learned about the Uni{)n: ; \system\ and have taken .all active part in both Stude11t Government and cmnmunitr · • volunteer work. When- I asked you to •ele(t me as your ClasS! :' · Representative, I targete!l specific objectives. Tne one : that has affected the stude11t · · body the most is that of fi1e alarms. Since serv.ing as yo;ur President, that situation h:~s drastically improved. The imposition of penalties f<>r false alarms, thouglk undesirable, has brought abo,ut cooperation in reporting ami punishing persons responsibl€. On your behalf, I ha~e worked on matters involving; Security; Student Affair~. Finance, the IFC, Gel-time, Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, a11d Camp Union planning. Our Class, specifically, has. a special responsibility to tHe upcoming Camp Union activities, which I will explai11. Camp Union is an administration sponsored evernt for all Union students and their guests. For many of us, Ma~y 26-28 will be our first opportunity to enjoy this special weekend. As it approaches, you must be aware that the existence of Camp Union is in jeopardy if tlu senseless vandalism that seems: to accompany the event is nCJt repr<;lssed. The destruction th3t occurred during previous CamP' Union weekends was either caused by Union students., persons outside our college: community, or both. Tile Administration and Stude11t Forum are encouraging all of us to ensure the continuation: of our Camp Union weeke11([ by promptly reportinK t()< security any va11dalism we: observe. It is our responsibilitr to protect the continuation of · this event, for OlUSelveS aB([ those students who follow IIS- V ery few colleges or universities have anythint similar to our Camp Union. It · has become a tradition :at Union College for over e1 decade, and is more than just!l .. party weekend. It is a symb-ol of support from our colle~e Administration. Tony Marcon Since I've been at Union, I've been surprised and pleased with the attitudes I've seen. The attitude of the students, the attitude of the faculty, the attitude of the administration and, the attitude of the total Union environment. If everything is so good, why am I running for Sophomore Representative? Simply, because I believe my class should have a representative voice in the total administration of Union College. I believe my values, my knowledge of the students or, perhaps, my understanding of the entire class makes me qualified to represent the views of the entire class. While Union is great-1 want it to be better. One of the ways to achieve that objective is to acknowledge the needs of all participants in the Union community and I believe that I can represent the \needs\ and views of the class of 1992. I believe in Union College and I believe I can represent tlle class of 1992, so that its voice will be heard and, more importantly, understood. v 0 Election Polls in the Q()llege Center between 9 .am and·~ pm VOTEJ· My acting as your Cla.ss Pr~sident has given me a st~p into working on importa.n1 nutters involving ~ the Administration and ·the colle_ge community as a whole. Wha.t J 1 E .. ... '

• PageJ CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND .SUPPLEMENT . ELECTION STATEMENTS Sophomore Class Representatives Rawn Salenger Hello, ny name is Wanda Thomas and I .am runming for Sophomore ;Class Representative. My ability to work well with people and my enthusiasm is vital to this position .. I will Qeable to work wilh administration a11d all of Union''s 'heirarchy for the betterment of our class. Pursuing an active role ill'- academic and social ~flairs, I will make sure the sophomore voice is heard. I will be open to all suggestions to make sure that all sophomore activities I am looking forward to the chance to ~et more involved in Union life. If elected,. I will approach the position with enthusiasm, perform my duties responsibly; and do the best job I can. As a Representative of the Class of '92, I will work with the rest of Student Forum to help get your ideas heard by other students as well as by the faculty. Every student should have a voice in .decisions made about this campus. Through hard work, I hop-e to achieve my goals of helping my classmates and improving Union College for all students. . ·. are done in harmony with your • wislles. I will be tlrere for • YOU. Andrea Slade Having been previously elected as freshman representative to the Student Forum, I now have the experience behind me that is . necessary to take an active role. I have watched, listened and learned from first hand experience how the Student Forum functions. It is interesting to actually see what goes on behind the scenes,a nd to be able to participate in the decision making processes. I would like the opportunity to continue to be a part of the Student Forum as a sophomore representative for the upcoming year, and with your support that can be made possible. VOTE! Concordien;sis was unable to obtain a photo of Mr. Tollman. Our sincere apologies Mark Tullman 1 was an active member of the student body in high school an.d I would like to continue doing so here at Union. I feel I have both the energy and the time to successfully represent o11r class. I believe that I can contribute a lot to the college community and one of my m~in goals will be to make your college experience the best that it can possibly be. I would appreciate your support PHOTOS BY CHRIS julie Walter Student Forum is a group meant to represent the students. . It is important to me that , · representatives act on the ·. · wishes and feelings of the · students. They also must . consider the many aspects of • . the issues raised. Since I feel stro.ngly about these responsibilities of the representatives, I would work · hard.to uphold them. I would do my best to represent the interests of the class of 1992. : So, class of 1992, be sure to · vote! Junior Class Representatives Jack Markis There are several reasons why I feel that I would be the most viable candidate for the office of Junior Representative. The first is the fact that as a high school student I served upon a conduct committee; as well as a representative of my class in my senior year; This provided me with valuable leadership experience which .could be applied to any office held ~t Union. The second and most important reason, is the desire r have to hold this position. I hope to represent my fellow classmates and to address their grievances to the best of my ability. I am also skilled to voice the complaints of my constituents, and with my ability for innovative thinking, I wi11 impro:ve many of the aspects of life at Union College. VOTE! Drew Ward lisa Archabald Given the small size of the . Union community, it is- easy . My name is Lisa Archabald · to get to know many· other and I am a member of the students. Every one of them Class of t990 .. I am running seem to have an opinion~ As for the position of Senior ·your Junior Cla~s ·. Class Representative .. I believe Representative, I would gladly Student Forum should confront · accept the .responsibility of significant issues such as voicing our views. · · social pol'icies, academic We have to ask: ourselves if .policies, tuition hikes, and any the actions of the other changes or administration mirror the · · implementations in school desires of the student body, for policies such .as the Delta Chi we are the ones who contribute housing conflict. These the funds that they so gladly changeS affect the class of 1990 dispurse of. However, to make and as seni01' representative I our opinions heard, we have to will work to develop · take action, and the first step in communication and interaction doing so is to vote. To give 11p between the students and this privilege is to give up our Student Forum so that the right to be recognized. students' opinions will be heard · I want to speak for you and · · and action will be taken. help your opinions reach the Another important fuention of ·ears of people who can change the Student Forum is to aetas . things. That is what the a liaison between the students Student Forum is all about, and the Administration. I and that is what I will make it believe . that by working do for you~ together with the When you vote, and I hope I Administration, the Student you will; remember Drew Ward Fop!rtl can voice the concerns · for your Junior Class , of the student body to ertsui'e Representative. Thank you. 1 ,. tha~ actio~ will be taken when actton ts due. I am a . responsible and hard working individual willingtodevote my time to student government. I Senior Class Representatives am proud to be a member of the Class of1990 and would be honored to represent the Class of 1990 as a member of the Student Forum. Student government plays an illlpoitant and critical role in our life here . at Union. As senior representative, I will strive to meet your r~quests and needs which will have a significant impact on our final year at · Union. David Adinolfi Hello- I'm, home sick with . mon.o at the present time; · however, for the past two terms I have represented our class on the Student Forum. This year the Forum bas . achieved many of its goals. • Experienced incumbents are necessary in order to continue to make progress. 1 would . enjoy representing our class again in the comimg year. Written by the committee to re-electDave Adinolfi. Rick Howard To the class of 1990: I am pleased to come before you again as a candidate for Senior class representative after a successful y~ar as Junior

r r ,· . CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT PageK E.LECTION STATEMENTS representative and , class implemented in the social president. I have a long track . policy without siudent record of activities here at · . consideration. The Student 1 Union, and have gained the • Forum's job is to have a clear kn<>wledge and feel for student : · line of communication between is the activities and · involvement of a great number . of students.. which makes Union unique, especially because they are almost all student managed. , This br:ings me t<> my next :point. The Student Forum is a student run governing body · established for the 1Jurpose of reflecting the needs and desires . · . of the students to the College Administration. It is this . function of the Fororn~ which · is becoming increasi~tgly more and more 'important, The Forum can, and has •IJad a large · :influence in swa·y·ing or · advising the Administration on many issues. We. the students, . tnust nat lie idle and allow the Administration to single- Class of '89 Alumni Council ~- · Representatives, through committee work and periodic Council meetings provide important input, on behalf of our class, into ·the College decision making process. In EdLin My gratitude to Union, and more so, to all the students .. government which is vital to ·. th.e students and the this. position, By working on • Administration. The Forum various committees, and with • · must\' make \Sure that these feUow t:epres~ntatives from our changes are not just class and others, I have used : 'implemented by the stlldentgove:rnment as a tool to : Administration's \rubber represent tile interests and goals ' stamp\ but with the voices of of Ql,lt class.. and to make • • the student body heard as well. Union a more interesting place ' This is going to be our last for future classes; For those of · • year at Unon and we all want it you-who .have submitted ideas ; to be a memorable one. For and-proposals to me I thank this to happen student you.,, a11d I hope others wiU ; • representation must ·b~ fellow suit ~d voice their :, stronger. Things must getdone ne-eds; this is what ' with .an active and forceful representatio11 is all about. ·. voice and I will be that .ty.pe of Finally, as OUJ,\ last yew; here at • • representative.. Elect Jeff Union comes to a close, please • . Liberman to be your Senior execute your right to vote in : Class. Represen.tative this student elections. This is the , · Friday. . · hanoedly m~e school ,policies. · addition, .the representatives remain in cQntact witll our class as they plan our first and five-year Re-Unions. As Senior Trustee and through my involvement in various other organizations, I've had the chance to illustrate my commitment to Union College. I would like the op,po:rtunity to contimre to r~present our class as an Alumni c;:ou11cil Representative. Please exercise your right to vote tommorrow! .• wh() have made my last four years an integral part of my life prornpts me to run for Alumni Rep. year in which our Class, the . · class -of 1990, will make a • lasting impression on Union ' · and a time to .secure the lasting . admiration and respect of past, • .present, and .future Unionites. ·' Thankyou. · \ *-~_-'··\'~-~''··:·.· Jeff Liberman In our three years at Union we nave seen our fair share of chttnges and it is safe to say that in our last year more are to come. As your representative to tire Student Forum, I will insure that your voices are heard and acted upon. In the past we have seen Delta Chi lose their house, new curriculum proposals, as well as neverending changes being 'Brian ·Moss··· I would like to take this opportunity to introduce myelf • • and explain to you why I would like to be elected as our senior class representative on the- Student Fotum. Throughout my college · · years. I have been actively involved. in a number of school organizations, which include both college athletics, academic clubs, and sociai organizations. This involvement has allowed me the. pleasure of obtaining a \hands on\ look at the activities which are so important for Union College. • 1 Fur the most pan, I believe, it HOURS: Mon. thur Sun. 3:30 to 11 :00 PM BUFFALO STYLE WINGS (w~h FREE talers) 10~ .. ~~~ttteuod...,toh•Oouoi1Uoo•.3•'19 OOooneuoeot~!tUotoouoieouuooo19.~ 15 ..... , ...................... ~ ...... 5.'79 oo~ ..... ._ ...................... ~.Zl:oo 00 ................................ 11.49 100, .. ,, ..... ,. .. ,.,,,,utoiioutuo34.o49; 5),. .. ,.,, .. ,,. .... .,, .. ,,nneuoue17:ziJ. a:o ... ,,, .. ,.,,,,,.,., ..... ,, .. ,, .. , .. Ol.,'YJ S~uces: Barbeque, Louisiana Mild, Medium; Hot, Sicilian Mild, Medium Hot ~----~------K~OPON------~----, 10 FREE WINGS I When You Purchase 50 or More • . I a. - - ~ - ... - .... - ~ - - KOOPON .......... - - ... - \ii!J'Io - - ........ Free delivery for orders of $10 or more Deliveries on the hour · 'Rather, we must work · :collectively with the · .administration in shilping the academic and ·social environment ofour college. It is for these rease>ns that I seek the opportullity to participate on the Student Forum. Please allow me this chance, by voting in Brian · Moss as your class representative. Alumni Council Representative . .. ;--\~ Wendy Endress The Class of ·~9 raised approximately $3,5()0 in our Senior Gift Drive. The Class of '89 sponsored a Senior Ball when an event such as this hadn't been spon~ored in several years. The Class of '89 had over 300 people in attendance at our Seni()r Dinner last week. The Class of '89, which has already iflustrated commitment to U11ion, is graduating in a fe-w short weeks, and will be entering the ranks of the Alumni cf Union College. No one will forget Union or the people· that we ·met here, and maintaining contact with Union can be an I important part of o-ut 'Life After Union'. Donna Lanzendorf I am interested in representing you on the Alumni Council. The ·Council's role ultimately, is to influence the College in its decisions; both financial and . policy. The active intercflange of ideas and concerns can best be met through the involvement of committed individuals who have been a part of Union. As an undergraduate, I have . had the opportunity to catch a glimpse of some of these decision making processes. Like many, I have molded my efforts into trying to make Union a better place to b-e. As graduates, our efforts to shape our institution are even more worthy of a listening ear. It is my hope to remain a committed part of this institution, and to lend my concerted effort to insure its 1 bettennent. I would be honored to fulfill our Alumni C()uncil position, if so selected. VOTE! Restore tlta Nott Studentlntitiative Presents NOTT MEMO.RIAL WEEK May22·27 Enjoy h1 the promotion of the Nett Memorial's heritage during the week of events. Jt•s easy to lose contact with Uni«ln e$pecially if you end up across the country. I know be.cause I'm gonna be in Iowa next year. Being Alumni Rep is my way of keeping in touch with this place and helping my fellow graduates keep in touch witbit. My experience doing \odds and ends\ on campus has ta1.1ght me a lot about the administrative, academic and sodal aspects of Union. I've had my share of fundraising, stud.ent activities, and other campus involvements. W11atever I've done, I did it bocause I care about the people wb() make up Union~ We've earned respectable de~rees from a great in!;([tution. The only way we can >Continue to hold our alma mater with high esteem is thro;ugh good alumni work. That's my ultimate goal. No m()re, no less. r must say that the other guy~; who are running for the position are great people and I would be proud to serve with any ()f them-- and to be served by them. Be out there· to voLem

· ... ' ~ . · PageL CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS~ WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT ELECTION ST ATEMENT.S Alumni Council Re:p Vale'rie JHI Sarwin I gave up on pitches when I discontinued my intercollegiate softball career. l stopped designing platforms after I survived Professor Harlow's Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles. With all of my new-found time I pondered being our Alumni Council Representative. For the record, my pondering began sophomore year. I'm not one to say \vote for me,\ but I'll write it. \Vote Val Sar, she cares.\ Conceitedly speaking, I am mild mannered, cooperative. and opinionated in a good way. Additionally, .. I have an incredible desire to represent our graduating class, you, tbe creme de Ia creme 1 of 1989, as your Alumni Courtcil Representative. I am realistic. I understand how desire doesn't win one an appoiptment, that's why I need you. I hope on Friday, you'll remember that you need tne, too. Happy Graduation. · 1 Prof. Bcrk lng:rid Short Our time here at Union has almost come to a close. Union willl always be a part of us as • we should always be a part of it! Our means· of accomplishing this is the · Alumni CounciL I would like to be one of the individuals who will represent the Class of 1989. Many changes have occurred • here during the past four year. , Some of these have b~en . beneficial but, ·unfortunately, there have also been decisions made ihat we found disturbing and, perhaps, even unfair. Carnegie lost its name. The Skellar lost its beer. f>elta Chi lost it'!l housing. All of this, and more, despite sometimes desperate sttempts by students. There are many new issues that will have to be decided upon in the near future. Should tbe Nott be restored? If so, how wilf the restoration be funded? Should the Greeks without housing be given the opportunity to live on campus, or should more Greeks be forced off-campus in order to give more housing to independents? Hopefully, the wrong decision will not be made to these questions. We should not stop caring about this community merely because we will no l<>nger be here to experience it. 1 will not stop caring. That is the primary reason _ wh.y I feel suited for the position of Alumni Cc:uncif Representative. My concern for Union and its students, coupled with my wil)ingness to work diligently for a cause I believe strongly in; would enable me to be a vital part of the process that will allow the · right decisions to be made. Stephanie Spencer My name is Stephanie Spencer, and I am running for Senior Class Representative to the Alumn Council. I am qualified to represent our class on the Council for several reasons. I h~ve bee11 active in campus affairs thro:ughout my four years at Union. My activities include: a member of the Society of Gatesman, a member of the Executive Board of the Admissions Liaison Committee, two offices at Delta Delta Delta: Corresponding Secretary and Chairman of CoHegiate- Alumnae Relations, and varsity STUDENT FO·RUM ELECTIONS TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS * TOMORROW MAY 12 9-4 in the College Center Absentee Ballots are available in the Student Activities Office \The Student Forum is . . . responsible for promoting the student body of Union College .. The elected officials administer the student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and through student membership on College committees, advise the College Administration of issues pertaining to the student body.\ football and basketball · cheerleading. These activities , have helped me develop leadership and communications skills which would be essential . on the CounciL With these skills I feel I would contribute • · many new and innpvative ideas to the Council and previde important input into the . College decision making process. As a Council member I would help organize our class · ReUnion and other activities . involving outclass as a whole. I view this as an opportunity and challenge to become actively <and effectively involved _in the operation of the College. As a class, we seniors have contril:JUted greatj.y to Union in a variety of ways. On . the Council 1-Will uphola this tradition by being a concerned and dedicMed member, representing the best interests of tbe Senior Class. Thank you for your consideration and please vote on Friday. Joshua Waldman I've been active: -RA -Phon-A-Thon -Parents Weekend -Crew '-Senior Gift Drive -Head Agent, Class '89 and would 'like to continue to be. Please vote. PARENT·s WEEKEND WORSHIP led by IHE PROTESTANT CHAPLAINS SU-N·DAY 10 A.M ROOM 410 THE COlLEGE CENTER. 1989-90 COLLEGE CALENDAR September 1989 3 Residence halls open 3-6 Freshm~n orientation 5 Freshman advising 5-7 Fall term registration 7 Classes begin 22 Last·day for changes in schedule October 1989 6-7 Homecoming weekend November 198,9 l5 Classes end l7 Fall term exams begin 22 Exams end at 4:oopm; recess begins; residence halls close at 6:00pm January 1990 2 Residence halls open at·noon 3 Winter_ term classes begin 3-4 Winter term registrat~on 16 Last day for changes in schedule Ma·rch 1990 13 Classes end 15 Winter term exams begin 21 E>:ams end; recess begins 2'2 Residence halls close at noon April 199o 1 Residence halls open at noon 2 Spring term classes begin 2-3 Spring term registration 13 Last day for changes in schedule 19-20 Academic recess (no classes) June 1990 8 Classes end 11 Spring term exams begin 14 Exams end 15•17 ReUnion weekend 17 Commencement

· PageL CONCORDIENSIS PARENTS' WEEKEND SUPPLEMENT ELECTION STATEMENTS Alumni Council Rep Valerie Jill Sarwin I gave up on pitches when I discontinued my intercollegiate softball career. I stopped designing platforms after I survived Professor Harlow's Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles. With all of my new-found time I pondered being our Alumni Council Representative. For the record, my pondering began sophomore year. I'm not one to say \vote for me,\ but I'll write it. \Vote Val Sar, she cares.\ Conceitedly speaking, I am mild mannered, cooperative, and opinionated in a good way. Additionally, . I have an incredible desire to represent our graduating class, you, the creme de Ia creme 1 of 19 89, as your Alumni Council Representative. I am realistic. I understand how desire doesn't win one an appointment, that's why I need you. I hope on Friday, you'll remember that you need me, too. Happy Graduation. lProf. Bcrk Ingrid Short Our time here at Union has almost come to a close. Union will always be a part of us as we should always be a part of it! Our means of accomplishimg this is the Alumni Council. I would like to be one of the individuals who will represent the Class of 1989. Many changes have occurred here during the past four year. Some of these have been beneficial but, unfortunately, there have also been decisions made that we found disturbing and, perhaps, even unfair. Carnegie lost its name. The Skellar lost its beer. Delta Chi lost its housing. All of this, and more, despite sometimes desperate sttempts by students. There are many new issues that will have to be decided upon in the near future. Should the Nott be restored? If so, how will the restoration be funded? Should the Greeks without housing be given the opportunity to live on campus, or should more Greeks be forced off-campus in order to give more housing to independents? Hopefully, the wrong decision will not be made to these questions. We should not stop caring about this community merely because we wiH no longer be here to experience it. I will not stop caring. That is the primary reason why I feel suited for the position of A I u m n i C o.u n c i I Representative. My concern for Union and rts students, coupled with my willingness to work diligently for a cause I believe strongly in, would enable me to be a vital part of the pvocess that will allow the right decisions to be made. Stephanie Spencer My name is Stephanie Spencer, and I am running for Senior Class Representative to the Alumn Council. I am qualified to represent our class on the Council for several reasons. I have been active in campus affairs throughout my four years at Union. My activities include: a member of the Society of Gatesman, a member of the Executive Board of the Admissions Liaison Committee, two offices at Delta Delta Delta: Corresponding Secretary and Chairman of Collegiate- Alumnae Relations, and varsity STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS * TOMORROW MAY 12 9 .. 4 in the College Center Absentee Ballots are available in the Student Activities Office \The Student Forum is . responsible for promoting the student body of Union College. The elected officials administer the student activity fee, officially recognize and supervise student organizations, and through student membership on College committees, advise the College Administration of issues pertaining to the student body.\ Joshua Waldman I've been active: -RA -Phon-A-Thon -Parents Weekend -Crew -Senior Gift Drive -Head Agent, Class '89 football and basketball cheerleading. These activities . have helped me develop leadership and commllilications skills which would be essential on the Council. With these skills I feel I would contribute many new and innovative ideas to the Council and provide important input into the College decision making process. As a Council member I would help organize our class ReUnion and other activities in.volving our class as a whole. I view this as an opportunity and challenge to become actively and effectively involved in the operation of the College. As a class, we seniors . have contributed greatly to Union in a variety of ways. On the Council I will uphold this tradition by being a concerned · and dedicated member. representing the best interests of the Senior Class. Thank you for your consideration and please vote on Friday. and would like to continue to be. Please vote. PARENTS WEEKEND WORSHIP led by THE PROTEST ANT CHAPLAINS SUNDAY 10 AM ROOM 410 THE COLLEGE CENTER. 1989-90 COLLEGE CALENDAR September 1989 3 Residence halls open 3-6 Freshman orientation 5 Freshman advising 5-7 Fall term registration 7 Classes begin 22 Last day for changes in schedule October 1989 6-7 Homecoming weekend November 198~ 15 Classes end 17 Fall term exams begin 22 Exams end at 4:0opm; recess begins; residence halls close at 6:00pm January 1990 2 Residence halls open at noon 3 Winter ter~ classes begin 3-4 Winter term registration 16 Last day for changes in schedule March 1990 13 Classes end 15 Winter term exams begin 21 Exams end; recess begins ~2 Residence halls close at noon April 1990 1 Residence halls open at noon 2 Spring term classes begin 2-3 Spring term registration 13 Last day for changes in schedule 19-20 Academic recess (no classes) June 1990 8 Classes end 11 Spring term exams begin 14 Exams end 15-17 ReUnion weekend 17 Commencement

' ! ·ege 1877 I Vol. CXVIII, No. 22 Schenecta<ly, N.ew York May 11, 1989 Vice President Of Chinese University Exchange Program. Arrive.s At Union Ex-Nixon Official G .. Gordon Liddy To Speak Friday College Selects Conservative Com:mencement Speaker By ELISE FOODY News Editor This past Monday evening marked the arrival of Tan Feng Liang to Schenectady, and more particularly tc Union College. Mr. :Peng Liang is the Vice-President of Nanjing Normal University where Union currently sp()nsors its Chinese exchange program. In the fall of last year President Morris visited China and met with Vice President Tan to discuss a proposal to continue the colleges' exchange_ program. for three more years. Vjce President Tan is here to formally confirm the expansion.· There are several ter.m~ outlined within the agreement. Twelve student$ are chosen from Union to travel and Study in China for approximately three mpnths; or the equivalent , of one semester at U11io11. In ex~hange, four young Chinese professors will come to Union for one year. During their stay. they enroll in classes and also teach a Chinese language course to students who have been accepted to study the following . year in Chin,a. The professors ~so teach a follow-up course to Union students after the students have completed the program. Vice Pr.esidnt Tan has. been a faculty me)l1ber of Nanjing Normal Uaiversity for his entire pt()fessional career, and 'specializes in the field of Chinese literature. He was also a delegate oo China's Thirteenth ·Nation~ Party Congress held. ·in the fall ~>f last year. Union c:urrently maintains the buge.st f()reign exchange program at Nanjing Normal University. President Morris · and Vic.e President Tan were iqstrumeatal i11 fonnulating ~ expansion of tile program. - PTGfessc.r Reynolds of Union ':s Economics Department w:ho has . participated i)\* the program testifies that Vice Pres1d~nt Tan .. can step right out of ihe ivory tow:er md maint:aln close . relationships with people from · all walks ()( life in rural counties Slll'r<>unding Nanjing.\ Steve Bar,rett, a student participant . iii. the program claims that Vice President Tan was ••extremely well-liked by every<>ne wh() took part in the . program.•• · Tan will be speaking as the Minerva lecturer today and will · continue his visit here through Wednesday, May 17. ,., f.C G. · Gcm:ion Oldy.; this year's .fSar:antS' V(~slc-end· spe~k$r. By JAY .:I'REELAND News Editor 0 § ll, This Friday h1 Old Chapel, G. Gordon. Litlll)' will speak to Union C()llege raral:he topic of surviving Y s·. prevailing-. Known for his powerful and motivating sty 1~ of speech, Liddy win Uik:~ tile stage at 8 ·PM. Perhaps. beSt mown for his involvement ~d <;onviction in the Watergate scmdal, Liddy is receiving prai~ from colleges • and universities thr()ughout the country wb.o '-ave witnessed Fire Alann Proposals Return To SAC For Reconsideration By J.\Y FREELAND N ew.s Editor This w.ee:k, the Student Affairs Council of Onion College will revise their fire a1ann pt()lJ<)Sal and re-:submit it to the Student Forum for approval. 'The proposal that was initUllly entered calls for a $500 fine, dismissal from residence hall and th.e possibility of dismissal from the seh()ol for a pull box offender. Campus S!tfety and Security. was present at the SAC meeting whem tile pmposal was · devised. He feels that it is important t()o illl.ake students aware that fire aarms are not a joking matter mel this message must be C()ll\tJe:yed across the campus. Manlioa also suggests the possibilit)' cf a peer group to help infomstlldents. Dean of Stlildellts. Joseph Mammola; :~oot.ecl that the $25 By ELISE FOODY News Editor his talks. Le Mat in, a leading French newspaper portrays Liddy as \a man of fantastic . intelligence and complexity:\ C()ngtessman Lee Hamilt<Jn Measured as having an IQ ()f has been chosen as the speaker 137-142 (the genius range), for Union's 194th corn- Liddy is a Law Review mencement ceremony. 'Tbe graduate and holds a doctorate College announced their ·in law from Fordh_am selection to the camptts ; University. He was one of the community Tuesday afternoon. youngest supervisors at FBI Commencement exercises life national headquarters at the age to be held Sunday, Jttne 11. of 29 and also served as the Hamilton will be coming to assistant district attorney in Uni()n with an impressive list · ·Manhattan. of credentials. From 1965 to Liddy served under the Nixon the present. Hamilton has . Administration in three sewed as a US Repr~sentati ve different positions: Special from Indiana. He is a member . Assistant to the Secretary of of tile Democratic Party and is · the Treasury, Enforcement also ~· Senior Member Df the Legislative Counsel and Staff Indiana Cengression al Assistiult to the Ptesident ()f Delegation, . the United States. He then Hamilton is Vice Chaitrnan 1 became a member of the secret of the Joint Economic ·Special •Investigation Unit Committee as well as which he eventually left to Chairman of the Subcommittee become General Counsel to re- on Economic Goals a11d . elect the President · Intergovernmental P()licy . Liddy eventually served five Perhaps he is more famously years: of a twenty-one year known as the former Chairman sentence for his involvement in of the Select Committee to the Watergate affair. Liddy's . Investigate Covert Arms refusal. to implicate anyone else Tra~tsactions with Iran. This from the scandal landed him in particular committee reviewed a maximam security prison the actions of former which has since been destroyed Lie11tenant Colonel Oliver by a federal court f()r its Nortll . concerning the illegal inht~maa living conditions. sale of arms to Iran. Liddy was finally freed by Hamilton attended DePauw President Carter, but had still University as an undergradWlte · remained silent. 1 and graduated with honors. He In addition to numerous talks 1 went ()n to study at Goetlle across the country, Liddy has , , University in Germany and written tw<> best selling novels .later attained a law degree fr<im in four languages and has had Indiana University School of two movies made about his Law. He was also the 19&8 life. He has been on radio and recipient of the Central television numerous times, has J Intellig. ence Agency Medalli<ll1, acted in such TV shows as and tile 1987 recipient of tile ~i Vice and currently owns 1 Defense Intelligence Agency an industrial security company. 1 Medallion. ~ ~ (J) 0: ~ ~ The .lileC()nd part of the proposal created some concern within 111e Student Forum. · This secti()n calls for a $25 fme fote!l(!h member of a floor whose pullboJC is activated and an offender is not found. . fine would be .ena.cted only if enough c<lmpe:llillg evidence was presented tCJResidence Life by the flo.or R.A. and the Area Coordinator. ibis year. there · have been 271 fire alarms activated. Mantica feels that the fining systelll and better ·o Paul Mwtica, Director of · communicaticn .are the only . ways to re<luooilis number. Photo cf the Week: Spring term was brightened last week with a free barbeque and music by Free Spirit. ·6 liE ! ' I,

Vol. CXVIII, No. 22 Vice President Of Chinese University Exchange Program Arrives At Union By ELISE FOODY News Editor This past Monday evening marked tile arrival of Tan Feng Liang to Schenectady, and more particularly to Union College. Mr. Feng Liang is the Vice-President of Nanjing Normal University where Union currently sponsors its Chinese exchange program. In tbe fall of last year President Monis visited China and met with Vice President Tan to discuss a proposal to continue the colleges' exchange program for three more years. Vice President Tan is llere to formally confirm the expansion. There are several terms outlined within the agreement. Twelve students are cllosen from Union to travel and study in China for approx.imately three months, or the equivalent of one semester at Union. In exchange, four young Chinese professors will come to Union for one year. During their stay, they enroll in classes and also teach a Chinese language course to students who have been accepted to study the following year in China. The pr()fessors also teach a follow-up course to Union students after the students have completed the program. Vice Presidnt Tan has been a faculty member of Nanjing Normal University for his entire professional career, and specializes in the field of Chinese literature. He was also a delegate to China's Thirteenth Nati0nal Party Congress held in the fall of last year. Union currently maintains the largest foreign exchange program at Nanjing Normal University. President Morris and Vice President Tan were instrumental in formulating an expansion of the program. Professor Reynolds of Union's Economics Department who has participated in, the program testifies that Vice President Tan \can step right out of the ivory tower and maintain close relationships with people from all walks of life in rural counties surrounding Nanjing.\ Steve Barrett, a student participant in the program claims that Vice President Tan was \extremely well-liked by everyone who took part in the program.\ Tan will be speaking as the Minerva lecturer today and will continue his visit here through Wednesday, May 17. _ ollege 1877 Ex-Nixon Official G. Gordon Liddy To Speak Friday G. Gordon Liddy, this year's Parents' Weekend speaker. By JAY FREELAND News Editor This Friday in Old Chapel, G. Gordon Liddy will speak to Union College on the topic of surviving vs. prevailing. Known for his powerful and motivating style of speech, Liddy will take the stage at 8 PM. Perhaps best known for his involvement and conviction in the Watergate scandal, Liddy is receiving praise from colleges and universities throughout the country who have witnessed his talks. Le M atln, a leading French newspaper portrays Liddy as \a man of fantastic intelligence and complexity.\ Measured as having an IQ of 137-142 (the genius range), Liddy is a Law Review graduate and holds a doctorate in law from Fordham University. He was one of the youngest supervisors at FBI national headquarters at the age of 29 and also served as the assistant district attorney in Manhattan. Liddy served under the Nixon Administration in three different positions: Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Treasury, Enforcement Legislative Counsel and Staff Assistant to the President of the United States. He then · became a member of the secret Special Investigation Unit which he eventually left to become General Counsel to re- . elect the President · Liddy eventually served five years of a twenty-one year sentence for his involvement in the Watergate affair. Liddy's refusal to implicate anyone else from the scandal landed him in a maximum security prison which has since been destroyed by a federal court for its inhuman living conditions. Liddy was finally freed by President Carter, but had still remained silent. In Issue!··· ·A view against . the death penltlty -p.p.ge 1 Fire Alann Proposals Return To SAC For Reconsideration In addition to numerous talks across the country. Liddy has written two best selling novels in four languages and has had two movies made about his life. He has been on radio and television numerous times, has acted in such TV shows as Miami Vice and currently owns an industrial security company. -Uni~>n · establishes.·· new E . ··t· A. •• } . as .astan Studies· · Prilcra~,, .111· ; ·~·- ,~. -. By JAY FREELAND News Editor This week, the Student Affairs Councirl of Union College will revise their fire alarm proposal and re-submit it to the Student Forum for approval. The proposal that was initially entered calls for a $500 fine, dismissal from residence hall and the possibility of dismissal from the school for a pull box offender. Campus Safety and Security. was present at the SAC meeting when the proposal was devised. He feels that it is important to make students aware that fire alarms are not a joking matter and this message must be conveyed across the campus. Mantica also suggests the possibility of a peer group to help inform students. May 11, 1989 CoUeg~e SHiects Conservative Commencement Speaker By ELISE FOODY News Editor Congressman Lee Hamilton has been chosen as !.he speaker for Union's 194th com- mencement ceremony. The College announced their selection to the campus community Tuesday afternoon. Commencement exercises arc to be held Sunday, June 11. Hamilton will be coming to Union with an impressive list of credentials. From 1965 to the present. Hamilton has served as a US Representative from Indiana. He is a member of the Democratic Party and is also a Senior Member of the Indiana Congressional Delegation. Hamilton is Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee as weiJ as Chairman of the Subcommittee on Economic Goals and Intergovernmental Policy. Perhaps he is more famously known as the former Chairman of the Select Committee to Investigate Covert Arms Transactions with Iran. This particular committee reviewed the actions of former Lieutenant Colonel Oliver North concerning the illegal sale of arms to Iran. Hamilton attended DePauw University as an undergraduate and graduated with honors. He went on to study at Goethe University in Germany and I later attained a law degree from ·Indiana University School of ! Law. He was also the 1988 . recipient of the Central i Intelligence Agency Medallion, , and the 1987 recipient of the : Defense Intelligence Agency ; Medallion. ' .-. The second part of the proposal created some concern within the Student Forum. This section calls for a $25 fme for each member of a floor whose pull box is activated and an offender is not found. Paul Mantica, Director of Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola, stated that the $25 fine would be enacted only if enough compelling evidence was presented to Residence Life by the floor R.A. and the Area Coordinator. This year, there have been 271 fire alarms activated. Mantica feels that the fining system and better communication are the only ways to reduce this number. Photo of the Week: Spring term was brightened last week with a free barbeque and music by Free Spirit.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 .QI.nncnrbi.ensi.u N\EWS ANALYS.IS Democracy Needs The U.S. Noriega's actions enabled him to protect himself aga,isnt the inevitable. When defe!lt appeared imminent, shot~uns put an end to democracy. Polls at the time of the break -up indicated the .opposition party, re:~ueseJJ.ted by Guillermo Endara, leading the pro-Noriega choice, Carlos Duque, by as much as a 3: 1 margin. Noriega would have democracy, as long as it suited him. This fact was the· policy of the In Panama By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. I usually fall asleep in front of the tube around 11:45 pm, waking up somewhere through Letterman's top ten list. As if this isn't bad enough. this past Monday it was \Nightline featuring former president Jimmy Carter. Carter was relaying the message wh.jch many of us already knew-- democracy in Panama cannot exist while General Noriega i~ ? By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager The unlikely combination of science and politics have been intertwined for the past forty years in the relationship between the Soviet Union and the United States. The United States and the U.S.S.R. during the Cold War of the forties and the fifties were marred with allegations of espionage of scientific secrets about the atomic and hydrogen bombs. Many controversies of the espionage activities were the focus of the Commission on in control. Noriega appeared to be an unlikely hero when he allowed democratic elections to be held this Spring. This concession had the U.S. press buzzing for some time. while Noriega systematically did everything he could to complicate the .process. His wrath of confusion included a reduction of the voting· population, intensive gerrymandering, and a slowdown Of the voting process. · Reagan administration, While alm0st all laughed. Cartoons appearing on this very page even .portrayed the U.S. as being the bully in the region. Now that the facts have .come out, even the biggest opponents of intervention must agree that somet~ing mote must be done. ,Science Adds Strength To Political Gap Between The U.S. A,nd The U.S.S.R. UnAmerican activities, headed by McCarthy. The result of the inquiries sent a husband and wife to their deaths at Sing Sing Prison; the Rosenbergs. The distrust .of the two governments was fueled by many of the scientific espionage activities uncovered during this period. In recent years the spy activities have focused on conventional military secrets, such as Marines in tlie U.S. embassy in the Sov·iet Union. It has followed that as tension between the two superpowers increased, the number of espionage cases alleged against the other country increased as well. The Magellan probe to Venus- is no ~xeeption. The difference of this scientific activity is that both sides are cooperating in fmding ou~ the secrets of the surface of the planet. Politically, the cooperation marks an increase in the trust the two countries are feeling towards each other under the Bush-Gorbachev reign. The shared responsibilitY of probing the surface of Venus is another step towards greater cooperation. The help that the Soviet Union is giving the U.S. could be viewed as a good sign for the upcoming START SPAA Tackles Problems .With Local And Nation\al Minorities By NAMITA RAVAL Last Saturday; nine members of S.P.A.A. (Students for Political Awareness and · Action) and Pete · Costa of Student Forum helped clean and paint part of the Schenectady Day Nursery. a 77 year old organization that provides daycare as well as healthcare for children. The Schenectady Day Nursery runs on a sliding fee scale since many of the children who attend come from disadvantaged homes. Because of this, its income is spent almost entirely on food, educational materials, and transportation. Another project that S.P.A.A. is planning is in response to the number of children living in poverty. Nearly one-fourth of all children, and nearly one-half of all black children, live under conditions of poverty. Each day 27 children die from these conditions in the U.S., which is ranked nineteenth among inudstrialized nations for keeping babies alive during their first year of life. A federal government operation that is trying to reduce these statistics is WIC-- the Special Supplmental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children. Its goals are to provide more nutri¥ous diets to low-income pregnant women, new mothers, and children to assist in health service referrals for prenatal care and child immunizations. Government evaluations have shown . that WIC reduces fetal death and low birth weight, which is a maJor cause of infant mortality. Other studies have found that for every one dollar spent on wrc, three are saved in hospitalization costs and that for every WIC dollar spent, Medicaid saved 49 cents that it would have spent in the first 45 days of a baby's life alone. Despite its importance and success, . WIC is not fully funded and does not serve all the women and children who qualify f.or its benefits. Its legislation expires this year and as a result is up for reauthorization. revisions, and possibly funding cuts. In response to this, people are writing to U.S. senators and representatives urging them to \Keep WIC Lit\ and sending a birthday candle so that more children celebrate their first birthday. On Tuesday,May 16, S .P.A.A. will have a table in the College Center with information about WIC. They urge students t~ read about WIC and participate in their letter drive. The U.S. is the defender of democracy, and for that reason we must act. Not becaus:e we support one individtta] over Noriega would have- democracy, as long as it suited him. This fact was the policy of the Reagan Administration while almost an laughed. anoth~r. but because w~ have faith in our .system. as ·doos the maJo·ri ty in Pail am a. Democracy is failing lhot by choice, but by force. How the U.S. :should talks that will limit anchreduce strategic we_apons. As well,. the countries are interested in the atnlospliere .of Venus. The atmosphere is very warm due to the green;.h(JUSe effect of carbon dioxide in the atmospheres. Gireater understanding of the green/louse effect wilL give Bush a rebuttal to acco~tions that he is doing nothin.g about the environment. F>ar the Soviets; Gorbachev will attempt to keep increasil1g his appeal as a politician. to the American people .. By hcelping interrere. is unclear at this point. Economic sanctions wotild hurt Nicaragua, and this is not necessarily what we want. After all. the people would be the ones to suffer these hardships, not Noriega and his gang. This. policy would also attract communism. The vitality of the canal should be reason enough· not to even 'chance this possible disaster. . An armed invasion sounds radical, but it wouid in fact be the best thing for botb. the people and democracy. The Pahamafliarl people do not have the capability to overthrow Noriega alone. In the same way France aided the Amer:ican revolution, we must now help Panama. The longer the U.S. waits, the more the hope for democracy fades. .. ' NASA to explore die Sl;ll'face of Venus, he is showing his cooperation with· the United · States. He hopes that this increa~e appeal will rub ·off to the President at the rtegotiaion table in Geneva. The science and political ar~nas have been partners since World War Two and are once again being mixed for the good of the Soviets and the United States. There is no doubt that the cooperation in the scientific venture of Venus will expand to cooperation in other fields. REQ·UIRED MEETING Tuesday, May 16 11:00 A.M. SS016 Majors in Economics, Industrial Economics, Managerial Economics, and ID/ECO Who Will Be Writing a Senior Thesis in 1989-90 DOUGLAS HARPER Dept. of Sociology State University of New York at Potsdam Will speak on ''Working Knowledge: Skill and Community in a Small Shop'' Thursday, May 11 12·:15 pm Steinmetz 106 Sponsored by the Departments of Sociology and Anthropology and Economics ~d by the Minerva F1Utd. Everyone is welcome. . ,EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL . 1400 16th Street NW; V~shingtcm, DC 20036·2266 I i I l

CONCORrJIENSIS Mlly 11, 1989 Page 3 Senior ·Becky ·Engineering Professor Speaks Out . Koopman A warded Fullbright Grant Against Discriminatory GE Policies By MARCI SILVERMAN several reasons. She speaks By JENNIFER IJOLMES' German, and many scientific A \Victory for equal Becky Koopman has been advances have been made in opportunity in employment selected as a l'ecipient of the Germany. Recently, Europe and sullse:quent advancement Fulbright Grant. The puJPose has become more involved in , • ;ensues from· the persistent of the Fulbright Graat program space exploration. In Gennany, efforts()fengineering professor is \to enable t:he .govemtnentof she will study and take courses Frank: Wieks. The source· of the United States to increase at Bonn University. She wan.ts this s.uccess stems from mutual understanding between to do research at~e University •; Profes~:r Wicks' share owner the people of t;lte t;Jnited States and focus. on globqlar clusters proposal: tp tile General Electric and the people of other which are very ()ld; densely Compa:n~ which stated: \I am countries.'' The United' States packed balls of stars. Studying protwsillg that our company Congress-provides money for these stars is helpful in promJltly implement a policy the grant. Students with any determining stellar evolution, of for])idding the conduct of major and with any academic since one can compare them to • ·comp~JIY. business at private degree can apply for the grant newer Stars. dubs with discriminatory but they must have a Koopman plans on going to · mernbMs~ip practices and pay proficiency in the Janguage ef graduate school at Yale · no membership fees nor the country where they want to University after she finishes e~nse~ for such clubs.\ study. Everything is provided her year .in Germany •. She the intentions of the for the recipients of the grant wants to receive :her PhD. in proposal• tie in the elimination excluding housing for which astronQmy. She owes much of of diS<~rimination and possible Koopman will recehe a her success to. Professor Peak establidlment of an \apartheid stipend. Koopman, a physics and Professor Alpher, and culture within the company.'' major. is planning Qil studying thanks Professor Maleki for his :The j11stifications of the astronomy in Germany. suppoJ,t through her four years prop()S8~ derive from the 1964 She chose Germany for atthe College. Civil Rights Act that -----------------------... · prohibi.te(J \discrimination on PID BETA RAPPA ELECTION RESULTS On Tuesday, May 2, the Union College Chapter of Phi B:eta KaJipa held its !Ulnual election meeting. Twenty seniors and two Juniors were elected to membership. They will be initiated into the Society on Monday, May 29. The new members are: the IJagis of race, color, . . . religi()o, 11ational origin or sex . : by ernlll()yers. labor unions, : and ernJ>loyment agencies,\ .accor<lin.g to Wicks. He feels that tlli~ type of discrimination not on:ly hurts the potential . employees, but also damages the colilpmy. Alth()ug;h he did not win the vote, Professor Wicks won satisfaction in initiating signifiCl\llt changes at GE. Five years ait€r informal suggestion of his pr()posal and three years follov;ing its formal or written subiilissi()ll in GE's Proxy StatentellL the effect of the influemoe of the resolutions compelled the company ~ take actioJL in clarifyin~ or estaJ)li-sll:ing none-discrimina- tory p()li<:hesin private clubs. After initial refusal of Schenectad,y 1 s Mohawk Qub to reforro. tll:eir membership · policy, <EE managers in the city wi;thdrew their memrersh.ips from the club. In additi()n, tile company issued an or<!ef forbidding the conduct of bu~;i11e:ss at the club. The severe uneasures taken by GE · pressed the Mohawk Club to open nembership to include femal~. Tlte C()nsequences of the • atteitti10111:eeeived by the vote also incl11ded the progress in the st:ruc::ture of resolution submissi()n and consideration. Wick~ \1VEIS able to meet with the Chairman of the Board at . GE, Johll· F. Welch. Wicks felt ·that this llad a major effect on Mechanical Engineercing Professor Frank Wicks • 1 the mode of doing business by means of speaking directly to the top of the company; Professor Wicks' resolutions, which received a substantial six percent of the vote, made a strong impression on the Board of Directors. Ten percent of tlle vote constitutes a definite , victory. Professor Wicks, who worked for GE for 13 years, · consistently pursued support for his proposal as he said, \I feel a sense of accomplishment\ 19S9 Newly.ElectedM:embers of Phi Beta Kappa Qlass of 1989 GenEd Curriculum ·To Add New Lora L. Anderson · · Jonathan E. Mz Stephanie Blirit Rita A Cle.ment Catherine A Diamond Anne M. Hoban Jeffery J. Huban Robin S .. Jaeobson Scott A Jones Rebecca A Koopmann Kathryn A.. Kurtz Mark Landrio Sing Y. Lee Denning McTague Tristen A. Pivacek Arlene B. Silverio Karen Laree Taylor Robert G. Uzzo Lisa B. Wachter Robert N. Waxman Class ofl900 Kristin A. Allison Laura-Eve Moss Members ofthe·Class ofl989 eleQted last n:ar Andrew Livernois · Robin Miller Richard Steele Beni Wolf . Repo-rted Incidents Date Time 5/1 8:00pm 5/1 8:32pm 5/1 9:32pm 5/2 4:38pm 5/J 5:27am S/5 4:10pm 5/5 2:05am 5/6 4.:08 pni SAFETY TIPS: Location Incident Day Care Possible break in door open Fox NE Broken window· SDT :Sroken window ; Centtal Park North Student reports being followed Unknown trying to get in bldg. thru windows Auto accident Security lot New Entry ' Accident SPD, SFD, Holmes called On scene West C Dining Gas leak Over the past two weeks two female students have beet1 approache~ by undesirables while they were jogging. These incidents occurred during daylight hours. It is highly recommended that .students do NOT jog alone on City streets. If you do not have a partner to accompany you please try to confine your exercise jogging to the campus property. Both of these incidents occurred off c~pus. Courses In Literature In Translation :&y A. WARDE Stutients in all classes-- not only 11ext year's freshmen-- .. will lin-d a new dimension of litemtlli\t open to them, thanks to the GenEd Curriculum that . replac(ls Liberal Learning. The AACitas approved several new · courses in foreign literature in translation, two or three of which will be offered each year. three .()f the new courses will alradr lle available next year, one b1 the fall, one in the winter, and one in the spring. lN'TERNSHIPS ••. The ·COourses, labeled MLT (Ma-d ~I'll Literature in Tl\allsbti<Jll) will be taught in Engli~h,. with all readings in English:. All will count in categories. \A\ and \D\ for Liben1 Learning until GenED fully re!)IIICes it The fi.JS;t course to be offered, one f<>r which students can preregister this spring, is Jap a11 Through Its Litei'Ettllre (ML T 17), taught by Pr()fe~sor Roy Statrs. It will e:xplbre over 1,000 years of J aptt;nese literature, from · • Pal!ll CorWin, a Union alum, is offering a surnn~e:rinternship in his New York City lilw office, Corwin & Greenberg. In1ereste:d students should send res.\Urlles no later than May 15. • Tit~ .SterLing Research Group currentl:yhas 0openings for Data Nangemertt Specialists in their summer interap ro gram. Interested .cornJloter science majors should apply now. • Ailla11ce of Resident Theatres/New York is a-ccepting applications for su1m111ertheatre internships in New York Cit)\ . .Applications should be sui)mitted by June 1. · •• l\11()r;e infnrmation on these and other available:: lntemships is located at the Cat;Eer Development Center, third floor ()f Ol~. Chap<;l. SUNMER /PART TIME JOBS • Pio _gram Resources, Inc., is looking for studentsin a 'll'ariety of fields to participate in.t1C~arcb: programs this surtuner. • Ent::rr level Human Resources person needed at n21ir(Jmal Savings Bank in Albany. f>(l:;ition ~pen now and this summer. • SuOlOler sales managers are. needed to work for A..m...eiica By Mail, Inc. Abie to do wo:;-k: in yllur local area. • MtltisJle's Moving and Storage, in NYC, is empbjing people for part and full time wo-:xlt tbis sUillttler. • N()o'l'rell Services, Inc., net;ds phone operators, ·W'()rcl !;)I'OCessors, and more for now illld.this s\Jilliller. Located in Albany. • tlbivenity of California at Santa Cruz is ()ffering.~~es ilt it's Summer J.;anguage Instl:tu:te in a side variety of languages. APPUC.A'£10N DEADLINE: MAY 12. • T/!.:114 Food Services has many positions i.e. waiters, waitresses, bartenders, and ll!oreopen for this suttm'ler. • ~CParlci and Recreation is seeking swim irlStructoos for the 198~ Summer Slli'il:llllling Season. medieval myths, rotnarices, and drama, to the modern- psychological novel. Emphasis will be placed on soc io- historical and cultural background as well as on literary analysis. The readings will include some critical, historical, and biographical works by Western scholars as well as Japanese literary texts in English translation. Professor Warde will offer German Masterworks (ML T 12) in the winter tenn, a course likewise ranging over 1,000 years. It will include among others the medieval Parzival. works by Luther and Lessing, Goethe's Faust, Schiller's William Tell, Nietzsche's Birth of Tragedy, and fiction by Thomas Mann and Franz Kafka. In the spring term, Professor Hash will teach M a j o r Russian Writers of the 19th and 20th Centuries (MLT 16), with readings by Turgenev, Dostoevsky, Tolstoy. Chekhov, Gorky, Solzhenitzyn, and others. In 1990-91, Professor Thomas will offer The Artist As Hero; Professor Day will teach The French N&vel .Since 1789; and Professor Moyano will offer T he Nobel Laureates of Latin America (lvU.T 14). And, the year after that, Professor Kellenter will offer From The Pedestal to the Parlor: Women in German Literature and Society (MLT 13) and Professor Ruiz will teach Literature and Society in Spain :rvlLT 15). • I

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Restore The Nott Offers. Historical. View Of Nott Memorial By JILL PHILlPPS Originally planned over 175 years ago by the famous French architect, Ramee, construction on the Nett Memorial did not begin until July 28,. 1858. With the support of alumni, it was Eliphalet Nott, Union College's fowth president, who initiated the construction of the Nott Memorial on Graduate's Day of 1858. Eliphalet Nott, through the funding of Richard M. Blatchford, directed Jonathon Pearson (Union's treasl!fer and business manager) to continue the building of the Nott in the spring of 1859. By June of that year, six feet had been laid. From that point, work on the Nott ceased until1873.. Union's decline in student enrollment during the Civil War, along with the unfortunate death of Eliphalet Nott in 1860, ca11sed the construction of the Nott to come to a 13-year stamdstill. In 1873, with the support of the Potter brothers (the grandsons of Nott) and several student demonstrations, the College Trustees allowed for the recommencemenf of the building of the Nott Toward the epd of J874,Jhe framework for the dome had been completed. and the roofing was finished in 1875~ The :four oak doors were installed in the fall .pf 1875, and the windows at the start <lf 1876. In 1877, there were several large donations which .. made possible the completion - of the Nott. For instance, a relative of Howard Pouer of the Alumni Association, Mrs. Alexander Brown, donated $15.000. Mrs. Brown also provided the encaustic tile floodng from England. Finally, upon the installation of. the tile floor, the Nott Memorial was completed in November of 1878. There have been several changes on the Nott' subsequent to 1878. The most dramatic change came in 1902-03 when it was adapted into a library through funds from Andrew Carnegie. Also, during that time the windows near the dome were installed. Th11s, the Nott Memorial took an entirety of 20 years to be built. However, 65 years passed before Ramee's original conception of the Nott Merncrial was completed. This is the first of a series of articles that Restore ·The Nott Student InitiJt tive is presenting to educate the College·. a:Qd .. the community of the Nott Memorial. AAC ·pt.ac.es Two Calendar Proposals Before . Administration Monday of this past week, t.he Academic Affairs Council met to discuss among various topics, recommendations concerning the annual College Calendar. Prior discussio11s within the AAC, and in divisional meetings as well, resulted in the elimination of fhe split winter term, beginning classes in late September~ and the Dartmouth calendars. There remained two final options available for the calendar; (1) The present calendar (with Orientation starting .in early September and exams fmished by Thanksgiving) and (2) the former Union calendar (starting abou~ two weeks. after Labor Day, with a week of dasses and exams after Thanksgiving). The four student members of the committee and the two voting administrators (Deans 'ferry Weiner and Arnold Oussin) voted for the present early .start. The six faculty members present voted for the later start. Because the two options each received six votes, the AAC's formal recommendation to the administration will be that one of ·the two alternative starting dates should be chosen. Do you have artistic inclinations? WANT TO WIN 50 BUCKS? The 1989 Orientation Committee is accepting designs for this year's Orientation. newspaper and T-shirts involving the theme: HE~'S TO U! Deadline for entries is WEDNESDAY, Mayl7 All entries should be mailed to Box 533 * REFERENCES TO ALCOHOL WILL * * NOT BE CONSIDERED \' Winner will be notified on May 18 Plea~e include Name, Box number and Phone nurriber on all entries. ALL SENIORS INTERESTED I:N HELPING WITH DISORIENTATION AND · SENIOR WEEK, PLEASE COME TO MEETING MONDAY MAY 15TH AT 7:00PM COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM (If You Can't Make It Send Name To Box 1767) Professor Chan Wook Park,. Franklin Marshall University, wHI deliver a public lecture, \Partisan Conflict and lmrnobillsm in the Korean National Assembly\ 3:00 p.m. in College Center 203, Wednesday~ May 17. Office· Of Reg.·istrar Rele.ases Fali.Term ·.Preregistration Procedures Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, MAY 12TH, Students should review the course listings;. consult their adviser, and .select the courses they wisb to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in .the event one or mote of their ftrst three courses becomes unavailable. EVERY S'IUP.ENT . WILL BE REQUIR.ED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN · THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OFTHEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the ~rmission of the department. These are referred to as \card\ courses, and are so indicated en the course listing with an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, MAY 17TH. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and .then return to the department on ·FRIDAY, MAY 19TH tO FIND OUT WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAVE BEEN ADMITTED. Those admitted io an order to :pick_ up a card MUST have their prescheduling form with you to be validated by the department. You are ~ot permitted to pick up more thart three (3) 9ards~ PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30 p.m. ON MONDAY,. MAY Z2NJ) Wil-L BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL HE . • ALLOWED TO. SIGN UP FOR A !'CARD\ COURSE WITHOUT. THE. CARD. Only these courses tequite pennission cards~ Signing up for an ~ndependen~ Study or Internship requires the completion of a form which is available in the Registrar's Office. This form: must be properly filled out and signed with all the necessary signatures and is due by the second week of classes or it will not be processed. A first term terni Research projeetrequires the signatures of the department • chairman and the supervising faculty member, prefera'bly on . deparunentallette~heador memo paper. The date and time fQr each student's appointment is printed on · the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However, they may come anytime AFI'ER their appoinbnent if their schedule · . •. permitS. PRESCIJEDULING WILL CONGLUDE ON FRIDAY, MAY !fiTH. Additional course changes may : next be made dl,lfing ;ili,e .~'dr,op/add\ periqd at .Registration in ; September at the Fieldhouse. · · · i · Students will oo admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the c<lurses they have chosen are not dosed. If one or more couri)v:s are closed, they should select new ones and correct their form. Then they should see a staff member in the Registrar's Offtce who will process their courses. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Fall term, except for seniors, should IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE. . $1,000 First Prize Join us in celebrating National Catholic Reporter's 25th Anniversqcy through participating in NCR's Featw:e Article Contest. ' J The Challenge: To compose a feature. article (Maxtmum 1500 words) that speaks to the Chrlstian of the 90's. · . The Subject Matter: Framed as a challenge for the Chrlstian of the 90's, address one of the following: 1. Women: New Roles in Society 2. Environment: A Matter of Survival 3. Life Style: Measure of Success Submissions will be judged on the basis of content.. writing style, clari.ty and imagination. . . · First Prize: $1,000 The .Prizes: Second Prize: $500 Third Prize: $250 The three willning entries will be published in NCR. The thirty finalists wlll receive a free one year subscription to the NCR. The Contest Rules: To enter one must be a full-time 1988-89 college or university t:mdergraduate. Articles must be typed (double spaced with one inch margins) aad contain a maximum of 1500 words. Deadline for eaby is July '15. Finalists will be chosen by a screening eommittee and winners selected by a panel of distinguished judl!es. Where to send the feaure article: Mall to: Wllliam L. McSweeney, Jr. Publisher Natwnal Catholic Reporter · P.O. Box 419281 Kansas City, MO 64141 Be sure to include your address and telephone number. Deadline is July 15, 1989.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Restore The N ott Offers Historical View Of Nott Memorial By JILL PHILIPPS Originally planned over 175 years ago by the famous French archi~ect, Ramee, construction on the Nott Memorial did not begin until July 28, 1858. With the support of alumni, it was Eliphalct Nott, Union College's founh president, who initiated the construction of the Noll Memorial on Graduate's Day of 1858. Eliphalet Nott, through the funding of Richard M. Blatchford, directed Jonathon Pearson (Union's treasurer and business manager) to continue the building of the Nott in the spring of 1859. By June of that year, six feet had been laid. From that point, work on Lhe Nott ceased until 1873. Union's decline in student enrollment during the Civil War, along with the unfortunate death of Eliphalct Nott in 1860, caused the construction of the Nott to come to a 13-year standstill. In 1873, with the support of the Potter brothers (the grandsons of Nott) and several student demonstrations, the College Trustees allowed for the recornrnencemenf of the building of the Nott. Toward the end of 1874, the framework for the dome had been completed, and the roofing was finished in 1875. The four oak doors were installed in the fall of 1875, and the windows at the start of 1876. In 1877, tlicrc were several large donations which made possible the completion · of the Nou. For instance, a relative of Howard Poucr of the AI umni As soc ia tion, Mrs. Alexander Brown. donated $15,000. Mrs. Brown also provided the encaustic tile flooring from England. Finally, upon the installation of the tile floor, the Nott Memorial was completed in November of 1878. There !lave been several changes on the Nott subsequent to 1878. The most dramatic change came in 1902-03 when it was adapted into a library through funds from Andrew Carnegie. Also, during that time the windows near the dome were installed. Thus, the Nott Memorial took an entirety of 20 years to be built. However, 65 years passed before Ramee's original conception of the Nott Memorial was completed. This is the first of a series of articles that Restore The Nott Student Initiative is presenting to educate tbe College and the community of the Nott Memorial. AAC Places Two Calend,ar Proposals Before ·.Administration Monday of this past week, the Academic Affairs Council met to discllSS among various topics, recommendations concerning the annual College Calendar. Prior discussions within the AAC, and in divisional meetings as well, resulted in the elimiFlation of the split winter term, beginning classes in late September, and the Dartmouth calendars. There remained two final options available for the calendar: (1) The present calendar (with Orientation starting in early September and exams finished by Thanksgiving) and (2) the former Union calendar (starting about two weeks after Labor Day, with a week of classes and exams after Thanksgiving). The four student members of the committee and the two voting administrators (Deans Terry Weiner and Arnold Gussin) voted for the present early start. The six faculty members present voted for the later start. Because the two options each received six votes, the AAC's formal recommendation to the administration will be that one of the two alternative starting dates should be chosen. Do you have artistic inclinations? WANT TO WIN 50 BUCKS? The 1989 Orientation Committee is accepting designs for this year's Orientation newspaper and T -shirts involving the theme: HERE'S TO U! Deadline for entries is WEDNESDAY, Mayl7 All entries should be mailed to Box 533 * REFERENCES TO ALCOHOL WILL * * NOT BE CONSIDERED \' Winner will be notified on May 18 Please include Name, Box number and Phone number on all entries. ALL SENIORS INTERESTED IN HELPING WITH DISORIENTATION AND SEN lOR WEEK, PLEASE COME TO MEETING MONDAY MAY 15TH AT 7:00 PM COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM (If You Can't Make It Send Name To Box 1767) Professor Chan Wook Park, Franklin Marshall University, will deliver a public lecture, \Partisan Conflict and lmmobilism in the Korean National Assembly\ 3:00 p.m. in College Center 203, Wednesday, May 17 .. Office Of Registrar Releases Fall Term Preregistratio~n Pro,cedures Prescheduling materials will be a:vailable at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, MA. Y 12TH. Students should review the course listings, con~ult their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of ~heir first three collfSes becomes unavailable. EVERY STUDENT WILL BE REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, A STUDENT SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR. MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only w.ith the permission of tlte department. These are referred to as \card\ coruses, and are so indicated on the course listing with an asterisk (*). Lists for these courses wiH be posted by the departments on WEDNES:DA Y, MAY 171'11. St:udents shou:ld sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, MAY 19TH 1'0 FIND OUT WHETHER OR NOT THEY HAVE BEEN ADMITTED. Those admitted to an order to pic~ u:p a card MUST have their prescheduling form with you to be validated by the department. You are not permitted to pick up more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NO'T PICKED UP BY 4:30 p.m. ON MONDAY, MAY 22NI) Wll..L BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON TilE W A.IT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO SIGN UP FOR A \CARD\ COURSE WITHOUT THE CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Signing UJl for an Independent Study or Internship requires the completi<>n of a form which is available in the Registrar's Office. This form must be properly filled out and signed with all the necessary signatures and is due by the second week of classes or it will not be processed. A first term term Research project requires the signatures of the department chairman and the supervising faculty member, preferably on departmental letterhead or memo paper. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than theil assigned time. However, they may come anytime AFfER tlleir appointment if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, MAY 26TH. Additional course changes may next be made during the \dfop}add\ period at Registration in September at the Fieldhouse. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside. they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more cour:~vs are closed, they sllould select new ones and correct their form. Then they should see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will process their courses. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Fall term, except for seniors, should IMMEDIATELY NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE. $1,000 First Prize Join us in celebrating National Catholic Reporter's 25th Anniversary through. participating in NCR's Feature Article Contest. The Challenge: To compose a feature article (Maximum 1 500 words) that speaks to the Christian of the 90's. The Subject Matter: Framed as a challenge fer the ChristiaR of the 90's, address one of the following: 1. Women: New Roles in Society 2. Environment: A Matter of Survival 3. Life Style: Measure of Success Submissions will be judged on the basis of content, writing style, clarity and imagination. First Prlze: $1.000 The Prizes: Second Prize: $500 Third P:rize: $250 The three winning entries will be published in NCR. The thirty finalists wUl receive a free one year subscription to the NCR. The Contest Rules: To enter one must be a full-tlme 1988-89 college or university undergraduate. Articles must be typed (double spaced with one inch margins) and contain a maximum of 1500 words. Deadline for entry is July 15. Finalists will be chosen by a screening committee and winners selected by a panel of distin~uished judges. Where to send 1he feaure article: Mail to: William ·L. McSweeney, Jr. Publisher National Catholic Reporter P.O. Eox:4l9281 Kansas City, MO 64141 Be sure to include your address and telephone number. Deadli:rae is July 15, 1989~ I.

. . CONCORDlENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 5 NORDIC SKI CLUB PRE·PRE S'EASON MEETING . . . AND POST SEASON PARTY TUES. 1-6TH 7PM CC410. 1:F INTER:ESTED COM-E SEE WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT!! CHUCAND OCS ATTENTION - SENIORS INVITE UNION FACULTY TO A WRITING AND HUMANITIES SOFTWARE WORKSHOP . . WEDNESJ)AY, ~y -17 .. . Peschel Computing Center Seminar Room: . \ 1:30. pm; · · · . Refreshments \ 2:00--3:30 pin, Fac11lty & Staff Presentations: · • 2:00 ..•. JYRITER,S HELPER: a pre-writing/revision tool 2:15, .... NOTA BENE: the word processor endorsed by the MiA 2:35 ... ,.TORNADO NOTES~ to manage research notes & more 2:55 ..... SYSTE~ D: A French wordprocessor with dictionary, etc. 3:15 •.•.• CALIS: An authoring program for languages Steinmetz 110: 3:30 .. 5:00 pm, Ha-nds-on Practice Questions? ·call Margaret Wadehra, Instrudional Technology, X6438,. or Theresa Pardo, O.CS, X62~. In Commemoration of Hispanic Heritage W·eek at Union College The MASS Society is honored to present: Sandra Padilla The Deputy to the- ·Commissioner ior .Affirmative Action at the N'ew York State Department of Mental Health Topic: ~~cultural Differences and Needs for Cultural Awareness .. Date: Wednesday, May 17, 1989 Ti.me: 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM Place: College Center Audito.rium The four \rain\ tickets for commencement exercises will be issued as follows: College Center - Room 302 Thursday, May 18th 10:00 - 12:00 A.M . and 1:30 - 3:30 P.M. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you would like. Students who do not pick up their tickets at this time may lose their opportunity for extra tickets. As soon as the total number of available seats has been detennined, extra tickets will be proportioned and sent to the mail boxes of those senjors who have requested them. Please take a few minutes to complete the Senior Exit Survey before or after .picking up your tickets. Thank you. Office of the Registrar '. !'· I ' . ' .,

f. t CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 5 ~ * ~~· ~· • .. · --~ \ ;;. ~ .' CHUC AND OCS INVITE UNION FACULTY TO A WRITING AND HUMANITIES SOFTWARE WORKSHOP 'WEDNESDAY, MAY 17 Peschel Compating Center Seminar Room: 1:30pm, Refreshrntnts 2:00--3:30 pm, Faculty & Staff Presentations: 2:00 ..... WRITEK'S HELPER: a pre-wrlting/rel'ision tool 2:15 ..... NOTA BENE: the word processor endorsed by the MLA 2:35 ..... TORNADO NOTES: to manage research notes & more PRE-PRE SEASON MEETING AND POST SEASON: PARTY TUES. 16TH 7 PM CC41.·ll IF IINTERESTED COME SEE WHAT IT'S ALL ABOUT!! ATTENTION · SENIORS The four \rain. ti<:Ik_ets for commencement exercises will be is.s-u_edi as follows: College Center .. Room 302 Thursday, May 18th 10:00 · 12:00 A.M. and 1:30 · 3:30 P.M. 2:55 ..... SYSTEME D: A French wordprocessor with dictionary, etc. You will be asked to sign a receipt for your tickets, and will be given an opportunity to indicate the number of extra tickets (if available) you woulrl Uke. Students who do not pick up their ti;Cik·ets at this time may lose their opportunity for ~~tra tickets. 3:15 ..... CALIS: An authoring program for languages Steinmetz 110: 3:30 • 5:00 pm, Hands-on Practice Questions?· Call Margaret ~a!lehra, Instructional Technology, X6438, or Theresa Pa.rdo, OCS, X6293. In Commemoration o.f Hispanic Heritage Week at Union College The MASS Society is honored to present: San:dra Padilla The Deputy to the Commissioner for Affirmative Action at the Nevv York State Department of Mental Health Topic: .. Cultural DiUerences and Needs for Cultural Awareness•• Date: Wednesday, May 17, 1989 Time: 8:00 PM - 9:30 PM Place: College Center Auditorium As soon as the tota1number of available seats has been determinerl~ extra tickets will be proportioned and sem t to the mail boxes of those seniors who 11~-v·e requested them. Please take a few mLnutes to complete the Senior Exit Survey lb-efore or after picking up your tickets. Thank you. Office of the Regis.tr11r (518} 370-6168 - J . We ttre looking fox- at.udoilbS ~ltl> want to earn some fun, easy, money! Students vrhp \W(}'-u}ti like to work on ReUnion~ C'{)mm~ncement W<,iekend ~.l\'lttll!!) & 10), please stop by U10 Alumm Office or call Shar<>n or K1ll\l')Y st 6168.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSlS May 11, 1989 I , _ .. \_.. . ~ F.···EATURES . - ~ . The Hollywood Of The East Coast By SUZANNE SHAKER Feature Editor Florida's Disneyworld is indeed becoming just that, a world in and of itself. Disneyworld has expanded once again. May 1, 1989 marked the opening of a brand new MGM Studios Theme Park. For all you seniors who aren't quite ready to face the real world, why not head on down to Disneyworld and lose yourself in the land of fantasy. The rest of you, how about a term abroad to Disneyworld? Forget France, Italy or England. There are just as many sights and attractions in Disneyworld as there are in any foreign country. Learn the culture and customs of the land -of make- believe, procrastinate as you never have before. Be one of· the first to discover the new and exciting Disney-MGM Studios Theme Park, the Hollywood of the east coast. Disney-MGM Theme Park gives its guests an insider's look at the world of television and movies. The grand opening celebration was held on April 30th, the 50th anniversary of the first television broadcast which took place in 1939 at New York City's World Fair. The main attractions of the park are The Great Movie Ride in which guests journey through a recreation of Hollywood's most famous film scenes. Visitors will have the opportunity to witness the recreation of classic filins such as \Singin' in the Rain\; \The Wizard of Oz\ and \Casablanca\ performed by actors who look like their famous real life counterparts. The train will travel through the doors of a full scal'e reproduction of Hollywood's famous Chinese Theatre. Passengers will be greeted by a large revolving cake topped by more than sixty dancers, .a fantastic fireworks display and left with a grand finale, a . Hollywood film montage of more than one-hundred memorable moments. Catastrophe Canyon, set in the American Southwest allows park goers to experience fire, . .-floods and earthquakes with no a<:tual risks i11volved. The World of disast~rs and special effects will be right beneath· y<mr feet. Catast:J:ophe Canyon is equipped to create the worst weather and guarantees a realistic disaster experience. It provides its guests with a quiet dose of special effects realism 1\nd the· chance to Ullderstand the behind the scenes magic. Where else but at Disneyland would you have the cltance to ride aboard the back of an eight foot bumble bee? A dream come true. For those of you who still can't figure out how Mickey and Minaie, two cartoon cltaracters are able to hold hands, kiss and have a relationship here's your chance to learn a little about the art of animation. Discover the process from start to finish at Disney's Animation Theatre. Let~s face it Mickey Mouse has got it made. The brand new, BMW mom and dad. just bought you for \Just Being You\ or for receiving a \C\ on your Chinese midterm is nothing to brag about, compared to Mickey's new forty foot limo, the longest fixed frame vehicle that can legally be driven on U.S. toads. Mickey's limo is probably mo:re luxurious than your ftrst apartment will be. Spectators can- peer through ·the limo windows and glance at the incredible interior which includes, a cheese cabinet, Soda fountain, full range video and sound equipment and the distinctive puffy furniture found in Micltey's home. The Epic Stunt . Specta(!ular caters to those thrilled and fascinated by Hollywood stuntmen. Stunts from hit shows are recreated to demonstrate the skills required. The Sound Effects Stoliio gives audience members die opportunity to create their ()9/ll sound effects for fihn. lf y()u~ve alway.s dreamed of being a television star, and whG has:JJ\t Disney's Supe.rstar Television is for you. Witll .today's electronic technolQ~ guests may step into some ,()f the most famous scenes ~n television. Be seen on I l»v~ Lucy or broadcasting the news ne~t to lane Pauly. S()nj•s Blue Screen Electronics magically merges Hve action tapes with clips from clas~ic shows. If you happen to have :solll:e extta cash while at the MGM Studios Theme Park venttJre into the One~of-a-Kind ~ta()J> which Specializes irt rate Hollywood memorabilia.l1ems sold in the shop include~·a Ied mohawk wig wom by Chei' for two-hundred and fifty dollms, a Continued em Page 7 Eureka, Excellence In Undergraduate Research • • By JENNIFER KOVE For the past few weeks I have spent long hours with 19 other Union students preparing oral or poster presentations to be given at a national undergraduate research· conference in San Antonio, Texas. We convened with ma!1Y other schools for three days at Trinity University to report on our work in different disciplines. Union students spoke on topics ranging from the economical impact of advertising in Japan to the optical isotope shift of singly ionized calcium. The conference was a great idea and many ideas were exchanged. We also managed to get some sun at the pool in our luxurious Marriott Ri vercenter and explore the beautiful Riverwalk at night. Here are some examples of the \Eureka\ e\'perience. Champagne in the hot tub. Emies', a friendly bar and that scenic walk to get there - a drunken 5-6 miles. Free breakfast - if yo11 sneak in . . ~ Participants from Union prepare to take off for the National Undergraduate Research Conference in San A11tonio Texas. (that's right Benedict?) Dick's Last Resort, another friendly bar, with gangrene- a shot to go. A happy birthday to Beni from the Marrachi band. Margaritas insprired Winona's revelation aoout alcohol. \It works!\ Bottom Exchange (Bottom's Up!) - yet another friendly bar - perhaps too friendly for the Union group who wanted to dance with the other sex. Hey which one of these was not like the other one? .. .John, Ben, Stephanie, ROBIN, ... some of us were not very tan! The Baked Lobster A ward goes to Kim though. Why is there stunted growth of vegetation on the Riverwalk? Maybe the ray of sunshine hadn't come yet. Laszlo, is that name Hungarian? Obviously! Who was that knife wielding German tearing through the airport terminal? Oh, just Gerlinde. Heads at the conference cited Lori R. f()r her project on the deficit that will someday solve all proMems. What a shame for her pa-tner Scott who worked really bard and wasn't even mellti>Clned. Then there were all those exciting men with the best pick-up lines ... \Hey baby, now did you get that argon im. :your 'compound?\ ProfessC>r Peak thinks Union is upside d()vrn - or was that a mistake ill the slide show? Then American Airlines was almost 11p.~ide down. Good news and bad:news - you're alive but you cllll't fly home. Wasn't there SUP'.Jl()Sed to be bad news? Dean :Massa knew where to move. He is .enjoying San Antoni(), ])ave. remember the antelope? You bad to be there! That's m1 for Union \down chonder.\ •

Page 6 CONCORDIENSlS May II, 1989 FEATURES The Hollywood Of The East Coast By SUZANNE SHAKER Feature Editor Florida's Disneyworld is indeed becoming just that, a world in and of itself. Disneyworld has expanded once again. May 1, 1989 marked the opening of a brand new MGM Studios Theme Park. For all you seniors who aren't quite ready to face the real world, why not head on down to Disneyworld and lose yourself in the land of fantasy. The rest of you. how about a term abroad to Disneyworld? Forget France, Italy or England. There are just as many sights and attracti()ns in Disneyworld as there are in any foreign country. Learn the culture and customs of the land of make- believe. procrastinate as you never have before. Be one of the first to discover the new and ex.citing Disney-MOM Studios Theme Park, the Hollywood of the east coast. Disney-MGM Theme Park gives its guests an insider's look at the world of television and movies. The grand opening celebration was held on April 30th, the 50th anniversary of the first television broadcast which took place in 1939 at New York City's World Fair. The main attractions of the park are The Great Movie Ride in which guests journey through a recreation of Hollywood's most famous film scenes. Visitors will have the opportunity 10 witness the recreation of classic films such as \Singin' in the Rain\ \The Wizard of Oz\ and \Casablanca\ performed by actors who look like their famous real life counterparts. The train will travel through the doors of a full scale reproduction of Hollywood's famous Chinese Theatre. Passengers will be greeted by a large revolving cake topped by more than sixty dancers, a fantastic fireworks display and left with a grand finale. a Hollywood film montage of more than one-hundred memorable moments. Catastrophe Canyon, set in the American Southwest allows park goers to experience fire, floods and earthquakes with no actual risks involved. The World of disasters and special effects will be right beneath your feet. Catastrophe Canyon is equipped to create the worst weather and guarantees a realistic disaster experience. It provides its guests with a quick dose of special effects realism and the chance to understand the behind the scenes Inagic. Where else but at Disneyland would you have the chance to ride aboard the back of an eight foot bumble bee? A dream come true. For those of you who still can't figure out how Mickey and Minnie, two cartoon characters are able to hold hands, kiss and have a relationship here's your chance to learn a little about the art of animation. Discover the process from start to finish at Disney's Animation Theatre. Let's face it Mickey Mouse has got it made. The brand new, BMW mom and dad just bough,t you for \Just Being You\ or for receiving a \C\ on your Chinese midterm is nothing to brag about, compared to Mickey's new forty foot limo, the longest fixed frame vehicle that can legally be driven on U.S. roads. Mickey's limo is probably more luxurious than your first aparlment will be. Spectators can peer through the limo windows and glance at the incredible interior which includes, a cheese cabinet, soda fountain, full range video and sound equipment and the distinctive puffy furniture found in Mickey's home. The Epic Stunt Spectacular caters to those thrilled and fascinated by Hollywood stuntmen. Stunts from hit shows are recreated to demonstrate the skills required. The Sound Effects Studio gives audience members tb.e opportunity to create their own sound effects for film. If you've a'lways dreamed of being a television star. and who hasn't Disney's Superstar Television is for you. With today's electronic technology guests may step into some of t:he most famous scenes on television. Be seen on I Love Lucy or broadcasting the news next to Jane Pauly. Sony's Blue Screen Electronics magically merges live action tapes with clips from classic shows. If you happen to have some extra cash while at the MGM Studios Theme Park venture into the One-of-a-Kind shop which specializes in rare Hollywood memorabilia. Items sold in the shop include, a red mohawk wig worn by Cher for two-hundred and fifty dollars, a Coratlnued on Page 7 Eureka, Excellence In Undergraduate Research • • . By JENNIFER KOVE For the past few weeks I have spent long hours with 19 other Union students preparing oral or poster presentations to be given at a national undergraduate research· conference in San Antonio, Texas. We convened with many other schools for three days at Trinity University to report on our work in different disciplines. Union students spoke on topics ranging from the economical impact of advertising in Japan to the optical isotope shift of singly ionized calcium. The conference was a great idea and many ideas were exchanged. We also managed to get some sun at the pool in our luxurious Marriott Rivercenter and explore the beautiful Riverwalk at night. Here are some examples of the \Eureka\ experience. Champagne in the hot tub. Ernies', a friendly bar and that scenic walk to get tbere - a drunken 5-6 miles. Free breakfast - if you sneak in I Participants from Union prepare to take off for the National Undergraduate Research Conference in San Antonio Texas. (that's right Benedict?) Dick's Last Resort, another friendly bar, with gangrene - a shot to go. A happy birthday to Beni from the Marrachi band. Margaritas insprired Winona's revelation about alcohol. \It works!\ Bottom Exchange (Bottom's Up!) - yet another friendly bar - perhaps too friendly for the Union group who wanted to dance with the other sex. Hey which one of these was not like the other one? ... John, Ben, Stephanie, ROBIN, ... some of us were not very tan! The Baked Lobster Award goes to Kim though. Why is there stunted growth of vegetation on the Riverwalk? Maybe the ray of sunshine hadn't come yet. Laszlo, is that name Hungarian? Obviously! Who was that knife wielding German tearing through the airport terminal? Oh, just Gerlinde. Heads at the conference cited Lori R. for her project on the deficit that will someday solve all problems. What a shame for her partner Scott who worked really hard and wasn't even mentioned. Then there were all those exciting men with the best pick-up lines ... \Hey baby, how did you get that argon in your compound?\ Professor Peak thinks Union is upside down - or was that a mistake in the slide show? Then American Airlines was almost upside down. Good news and bad news - you're alive but you can't fly home. Wasn't there supposed to be bad news? Dean Massa knew where to move. He is enjoying San Antonio. Dave, remember the antelope? You had to be there! That's all for Union \down chonder.\ •

The Union Of My Years lly KATIE BOYD Arts Editor That's me in the middle. The other people are just some alumni. They're s~:anding in my picture because l brought .them t·shirts from my college. From their college. F:rom Union College, whiCh I probably never would have heard of (living in Boulder, Colorado as I do) had it not been for them. So if it hadn't been for Paul Rickard '58 and John Seward Will l, as a bragging graduate, confide that \Union isn't 'what it w~l\s'? '58, I probably never would have spent four glorious and frustrating years. here. lt seems so strange to me that soon I, too, will be an East Coast Hollywood alumnus. I wonder if I might affect someone as my Boulder alumni friends affected me. Could my tales ef wild times and prowess at \ping\ pong and fcosball· intice another human being to take tlle Union four year voyage, And would I be the subject of a disgruntled sophomore's tirade that ,;Union isn't the fun place I was told it'd be.\ And will I, as a bragging graduate, confide to others that \Union isn't 'wbat it was'.\ All alumni (or .all those who graduated .after 1875 .anyway) share the common bond of having spen~ four years in the shadow of the Nott Memorial. Yet, each graduating class had completely differel1t experiences. And when commenting on my college days_I hope to remember that I am speaking of \my\ Union. Arid what a changing, transforming, shrinking, and evolving Union roy Union has been. My class, the class of 1989, started college life in the · unbearable heat and humidity · of a Schenectady Indian summer. Sweating bullets, we toured our campus., besieged by c · construction. We picked up our · _IQnt~nued frc_:»m page 6 · first class, ·schedules in paif. of purple flowered napkin · . Richmond, we shopped for :rings from the Liberace estate . f<>r fifty dollar!!, a red robe Page 7 Pa:ut Rickard '58,. Katie Boyd '89; J.ohn Seward '88. books in tile basement of tbe Nott, we walked through tbe ma21e in the social science bulding, a:nd did nautilus in the field house, And while we never knew what it was to drink a beer in the Pub. we did sneak in those. last drafts at the · Skellar. We saw the departure of Delta Upsilon early in 011r career here, and regretfully see out Delta Chi with. our graduation. But our experience differs from aU others not merely because <>f tl;!e uniq_ue circumstances of our: stay here on campus. The events of the world beyond \old Union's grounds\ have directly influenced our perspective and expectations. With the alert eyes· of freshmen, we recorded the Mexico City ear.thquake, Chernobyl disaster, the Challenger explosion, and the bombing of Libya as signs of just how frightening the real world could be. And, now as seniors we excitedly point to news reports such ·as the possibility of cold fusion as examples of the marvels waiting \out there\ for us. Of course, the major news in betwe.en these years also greatly affected our Class, and may constitute another article. So, yes, Paul Rickard and John Seward and I will sit around next Thanksgiving and speak of Union in the glowing terms used only by alumni. However, we will be speaking of different Unions. Unions of the classes of '58 and '89, Unions which. existed for a brief and brilliant four years. worn by Steve Martin in \All of Me\ and a solid sterling silver loving cup award given to Bing Crosby for three- thousand and two-hundred donars. If 11one of the fol1owing has excited or inspired you enough t<> bop on a plane or drive all nigltt and all day the fabulous array of dining options at the MGM Studios Theme Park will. Only in Disneyland can. one dine in your own 1950's kitchenette equipped with videoscreens showing black and white film clips from 50's sitcoms. The health conscious 5()'s style menu is served in T.V. dinner trays by waitress dressed as sitcom moms. The SO's Prime Time Cafe is only <>f of ten places to eat at the MOM Studios Theme Park. The or,i.ginal Hollywood Brown Derby has been recreated, under the same name. The chic 1930's atmosphere o( the original restaurant fills the new location. The menu includes orne famous classics along with trendy SO's dishes. The Soundstage food colJ!l ~ three areas pizza/pasta, sandwichs and soup/salad. The other dining options include The Catwalk Bar, a full service cocktail lounge; .. Starring Rolls, a bakery; Hollywood & Vine Cafeter.ia, a modem day version of a SO's diner, stainless steel with pink accents and a central area for display cooking; The B1acklot Express, which serves trendy, upscale fast food; Min & Bill's Dockside Diner,. serving seafood and Dinosa'UI' Gertie's, a life' size \California Crazy\ A View Against The Death Penalty dinosaur vendor. By STEPHEN BARRETT Amnesty International In 1890, New York earned the distinction of perfonning the first electrocution in the world., and despite its last being in 1963, has executed more than any other state. A New York State Death Penalty Bill has been reintroduced every year .since 1977, and every year it has been vetoed by the Governor. Yet last year the vote 1D override the veto was only seven votes short. This coupled with changes after last autumn's elections has brought this reality even closer. Why should we as voters and tax payers oppose these measures? 1. there is no evidence that the Death Penalty deters people · · from killing. While murder rates have indeed. increased everywhere in the last ten years, they have increased more in states with the Death Penalty. We cannot prove that the Death Penalty caused this increase, but we know it did not prevent it. Since New York in 1977, murders of the state's police officers have declined. Over the years 1976 through 1986, murder rates in states that held executions were twice those of states without capital punishment. 2. T~e Death Penalty option does not make .society safer or fight crime. Drug-related murders, so much in the news today, aie the least likely to be effected by the threat of the Death Pe11alty. Drug dealing is already a high-risk, li.fe- tbreatening occupation. 3. Inn<X:entpeople have been executed many times. In the United States, fmm 190() to 1985, at least 350 people have been mistakenly convicted of potentially capital .crimes; of these, 141 were sentenced to death, and 23 have been executed., 8 in New York, mme than any other state. Ther~ is no way to ensure that such mistakes will n<>t happen again. 'fhe Death penalty is fatal and irreversible. 4. The Death Penalty works like a ·ri,gged lottery. Imposed in an arbitrary manner, the Death Penalty sentence is impacted by many circumstances other than the crime itself. Key factors include: attitudes of police and prosecu:tors; skills of court- appointed defense counsel; prejudices. of judges andji.Jli.es, and the defendant's race and socio-economic statns .. Amcan American, Hispanic and other minorities are more likely lo be se11tenced to death than White de£endnts, for the same crime. In Florida, lHack offenders who murder Whites are f<>rt)' times more likely to end up on death row than Whites who :kill Blacks. 5. Executions costs far more than imprisonment. A 1982 New York study sh<>wed that the average murder trial and the first stage of appeals cost tax .payers $1.8 million, more than twice the cost of keeping a person in prison for life .. Capital cases would be a disasterous drain on the finances of individual counties in New York State, leading to selective and arbitrary prosecutions. The mill!ons of dollars requaired to. execute one person wo11ld be better spent on services to the families of victims. 6. The New York Bill will ·not prevent the execution of mentally retarded defendants. The New York State Association for Retarded Children has opposed the bill, and the American Bar Association has taken a position ill opposition to the execution of the mentally retarded. 7. By executing people, the State teaches that 'killing in retaliation is legitimate- precisely the wrong message. Executions may stimulate violent crime by exemplifying s<>ciety's approval of killing. The State does not burn the house of an arsonist or rape the rapist. 8. The United States is the only Western industrial nation using capital punishment. Our executions put us in the company of such countries as South Africa, Iran, Nigeria, Turkey. China and the USSR. This years bill was passed by both houses of the New York State Legislature. Governor Mario Cuomo vetoed it on March 20. The veto is one vote away from ·being overridden, with the override vote expected in the first week of June. The Union College Chapter of Amnesty International is working with other local Amnesty groups to prevent the ?assage of this bill. There will be many activities relating to the Death Penalty in the area during the next month, including a rally sponsored by Amnesty International on the steps of the capital building on . May 23 at noon. I challenge people t<> form an opinion and encourage someone else to provide a counter argument in next week's paper. For more information on what you can do to help, please come to the Amnesty International meeting on Tuesday evenings at 7:00 in the room 409 of the College Center. '' I I l. ' r ' I

CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 7 FEATURES The Union Of My Years By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor That's me in the middle. The other people are just some alurnni. They're standing in my picture because I brought them t-sl'lirts from my college. From their college. From Union College, which I probably never would have heard of (liv iag in Boulder, Colorado as I doy had it not been for them. So if it hadn't been for Paul Rickard '58 and John Seward Will I, as a bragging graduate, confide that t'Union isn't 'what it \':as'? '5&, I probably never would have spent four glorious and frustrating years here. It seems so strange to me that soon I, too, will be an East Coast Hollywood Continued from page 6 pak of purple flowered napkin ri11g s from the Liberace estate fo:r fifty dollars, a red robe worn by Steve Martin in \All of Ne\ and a solid sterling silver loving cup award given to lHng Crosby for three- thousand and two-hundred d()!lars. If none of the following has ex.:cited or inspired you enough to bop on a plane or drive all ni_ght and all day the fabulous an:ll.y of dining options at the MGM Studios Theme Park will. Only in Disneyland can one dine in your own 1950's kitchenette equipped with \Vi.deoscreens showing black and white film clips from 50's sitcoms. The health conscious 50's style menu is served in T.V. dinner trays by waitress d1essed as sitcom moms. The 5()'s Prime Time Cafe is only of of ten places to eat at the MOM Studios Theme Park. The original Hollywood Brown Derby has been recreated, under tile same name. The chic 1930's atmosphere of the original restaurant fills the new location. The menu includes ome famous classics along with trendy 80's dishes. The S()undstage food court has three areas pizza/pasta, sandwichs alld soup/salad. The other dining options include The Catwalk Bar, a full service cocktail lounge; Starring :Rolls, a bakery; Hollywood & \Vine Cafeteria, a modem day -version of a 50's diner, ,stainless steel with pink accents and a central area for display cooking; The Blacklot EJtpress, which serves trendy, upscale fast food; Min & Bill's Dockside Diner, serving seafood and Dinosaur Gertie's, a life size \California Crazy\ dinosaur vendor. alumnus. I wonder if I might affect someone as my Boulder ah1mni friends affected me. Could my tales of wild times and prowess at \ping\ pong and foosbaH intice another lluman being to take tlie Union four year voyage. And would I be the subject of a disgruntled sophomore's tirade that \Union isn't the fun place I was told it'd be.\ And will I, as a bragging graduate, confide to others that \Union. isn't 'what it was'.\ All alumni (or all those who graduated after 1875 anyway) share the common bond of having spent four years in the shadow of the Nott Memorial. Yet, each graduating class had completely different experiences. And when commenting on my college days I hope to remember that 1 am speaking of \my\ Union. And what a changing, transforming, shrinking, and evolving Union my Union has been. My class, the class of 1989, started college life in the unbearable heat and humidity of a Schenectady Indian summer. Sweating bullets, we toured our campus, besieged by construction. We picked up our first class schedules in Richmond, we shopped for Paul Rickard '58, Katie Boyd '89, John Seward '88. books in the basement of the Nott, we walked through the maze in the social science buldiRg, and did nautilus in the field house. And while we never knew what it was to drink a beer in the Pub, we did sneak in those last drafts at the SkeUar. We saw the departure of Delta Upsilon early in our career here, and regretfully see out Delta Chi with our graduation. But our experience differs from all others not merely because of the unique circumstances of our stay here on campus. The events of the world beyond \old Union's grounds\ have directly influenced our perspective and expectations. With the alert eyes of freshmen, we recorded the Mexico City earthquake, Chernobyl disaster, the Challenger explosion, and the bombing of Libya as signs of just how frightening the real world could be. And, now as seniors we excitedly point to news reports such as the possibility of cold fusion as examples of the marvels waiting \out there\ for us. Of course, the major news in between these years also greatly affected our class, and may constitute another article. So, yes, Paul Rickard and John Seward and I will sit around next Thanksgiving and speak of Union in the glowing terms used only by alumni. However, we will be speaking of different Unions. Unions of the classes of '58 and '89, Unions which existed for a brief and brilliant four years. A View Against The Death Penalty By STEPHEN BARRETT Amnesty International In 1890, New York earned the distinction of performing the first electrocution in the world, and despite its last being in 1963, has executed more than any other state. A New York State Death Penalty Bill has been reintroduced every year since 1977, and every year it bas been vetoed by the Governor. Yet last year the vote to override the veto was only seven votes short. This coupled with changes after last autumn's elections has brought this reality even closer. Why should we as voters and tax payers oppose these measures? 1. There is no evidence that the Death Penalty deters people from killing. While murder rates have indeed increased everywhere in the last ten years, they have increased more in states with the Death Penalty. We cannot prove that the Death Penalty caused this increase, but we know it did not prevent it. Since New York in 1977, murders of the state's police officers have declined. Over the years 1976 through 1986, murder rates in states tllat held executions were twice those of states without capital punishment. 2. The Death Penalty option does not make society safer or fight crime. Drug-related murders, so much in the news today, are the least likely to be effected by the threat of the Death Penalty. Drug dealing is already a high-risk, life- threatening occupation_ 3. Innocent people have been executed many times. In the United States, from 1900 to 1985, at least 350 people have been mistakenly convicted of potentially capital crimes; of these, 141 were sentenced to death, and 23 have been executed, 8 in New York, more than any other state. There is no way to ensure that such mistakes will not happen again. The Death penalty is fatal and irreversible. 4. The Death Penalty works like a ~rigged lottery. Imposed in an arbitrary manner, the Death Penalty sentence is impacted by many circumstances other than the crime itself. Key factors include: attitudes of police and prosecutors; skills of court- appointed defense counsel; prejudices of judges and juries, and the defendant's race and socio-economic status. African American, Hispanic and other minorities are more likely to be sentenced to death than White defendnts, for the same crime. In Florida, Black offenders who murder Whites are forty times more likely to end up on death row than Whites who kill Blacks. 5. Executions costs far more than imprisonment. A 1982 New York study showed that the average murder trial and the first stage of appeals cost tax payers $ L8 million, more than twice the cost of keeping a person in prison for life. Capital cases would be a disasterous drain on the finances of individual counties in New York State, leading to selective and arbitrary prosecutions. The millions of dollars requaired to execute one person would be better spent on services to the families of victims. 6. The New York Bill will not prevent the execution of mentally retarded defendants. The New York State Association for Retarded Children has opposed the bill, and the American Bar Association has taken a position in opposition to the execution of the mentally retarded 7. By executing people, the State teaches that killing in retaliation is legitimate- precisely the wrong message. Executions may stimulate violent crime by exemplifying society's approval of killing. The State does not bum the house of an arsonist or rape the rapist. 8. The United States is the only Western industrial nation using capital punishment. Our executions put us in the company of such countries as South Africa, Iran, Nigeria, Turkey, China and the USSR. This years bill was passed by both houses of the New York State Legislature. Governor Mario Cuomo vetoed it on March 20. The veto is one vote away from being overridden, with the override vote expected in the first week of June. The Union College Chapter of Amnesty International is workillg with other local Amnesty groups to prevent the \)assage of this bill. There will De many activities relating to the Death Penalty in the area during the next month, including a rally sponsored by Amnesty International on the steps of the capital building on May 23 at noon. I challenge people to form an opinion and encourage someone else to provide a counter argument in next week's paper. For more information on what you can do to help, please come to the Amnesty International meeting on Tuesday evenings at 7:00 in the room 409 of the College Center.

CONCORDIENSTS M.ay J 1, 1989 Page 8 F·EATURES The Health An,d Fitness Column lly JACQUELINE RANDALL Many of us S:U.ffcr .from work .pressure in otu relationships, bealth issues, loneliness •. and . financial inst!lbility. Without thinking mucll about it, we sometinics respond by pouring ourselves an aLcoholic drink, lighting a .cigarette, overeating, or exercising excessively. Whether we are conscious of it or not, in each case we. are trying to solve a problem but, in fact, are creating new ones·. Most of us are drinking more alcohol this term because we have lighter schedules,. the weather is nicer or we are graduating {finally). Many of the parties of spring term are centered around drtnking. It is important to keep in mind that alcohol is the nation's leading mood-altering drug. ·It is extremly powerful and potentially addictive .. Because alcohol drinking is more socially acceptable than taking other drugs. ::tlcohol abuse is the most common fonn of drug abuse. Alcohol affects the body in a negati¥e fasbion. The most dramatic evide11ce of alcohol's impact appears in the liver. As we drink alcollol whether it is beer,· wine et)olers, or grain punch. they aJl diffuse through the walls of tll~ stomach. So., if we don ~t eat before we drink, then the drinx•s effect will be more dramatic. Thus, if we don't want to become so \drunk\ at }Jarties. we should eat high-fats11acks. Once ou.r stomachs are full, then the alcohol has less chance of touching the walls of the stomach and diffusing through . and we don't get as \bombed.\ The liver i~ the only part of the body that detoxifies alcohol and converts it to usable energy. As we dJ:ink more and moxre, the harder our liver has 10 work. When the Liver attends to the alcohol ingested, other body functiorr·s are affected. First, prote illi synthesis is stopped l;>ec<t.use the liver cells usc all the ava Hable resources to make alcoll:o!dehydrogcnase. Second, so111e important antibodies and other enzymes essential to tllte health of the body are not.sy-n'lhesized either. So, excessive drinking can lead to the risk c.f d~generation of the Liver andlivet cancer. Heavy drin!cillg can also lead to cancer of the: throat.. mouth, larynx, and esophagus. Alcohol affects the stomach and .can worsen ulcers and damage the stomach linimg. It can also injure the lining of the small intestine. Alcohol is reonsidered an aphFodisiac. As it may stimulate 311 ;I:ntetest in sexual activity, it GO the other hand can impair p;erformance. For men, ale()~ ol can cause temporary l<Jss of potency by causing the liver to produce excessive am.()unts of the enzyme. t!Iat breaks down · testostero11e (the male : hormone). W\ omen who drink . during pre~n!ln:cy may give · birth to babies. having growth · abnormalities a:nd birth defects. Alcohol Clkn be a means of withdrawal ?llld some people ' use it either consciously and . unconsciQD~ly to help them sleep~ 'Yet, a1c:ohol can lead to insomnia U!dcan diminish the body's ability to fight off infections. .Alcohol can also cause he~d!lches, nausea, dizziness !lnd inhibit conception. Alcohol llrovides the body with empty c:alories. Beer and wine con~i11 some vitamins, minerals and. c:arbohydrates, but the amou!lt is so little that it doesn't really provide substantial nutritional value. Alcohol deprives the body of nutrients from other foods that we eat. Alcohol is also a diuretic and can cause us to lose certaio water-soluble minerals such as zinc, potassium and mag11esium. Excessi·ve drinking over a long time period can ·lead to physical addiction. How many times have we woke up with a splitting headache.. stomach ache, dry mouth, snaky jitters and feelings of nausea? This is the famous hangover from last nighfs indulgence. While some believe that coffee and aspirin are good ~;emedies,. these may temporary relieve us. But, the most effective remedy is time and rest. Thus, coffee and exercise are obviousl'Y counterproductive. Before we drink, we should . eat something that is high protein or fat such as ·milk, cheese, meat or .peanut bqtter. Drink sl<J:wly, and dilute drinks with ice and mixers. :Be careful not to mix drinks with drugs. Remember that if you are tired or sick, the alcohol can affect your system more powerfully than us11al. Lastly. try not to use alcohol as a problem solver and do not drink and drive (take security). On a good note, drinking in moderation (1-2. drinks a day) may seem to benefit oui h~aJ:t and blood vessels. It can allnw us to relieve tension. Some studies show that a moderate dose of alcohol can help the heart and can relax the muscles. So, eat healthy. get plenty of exercise, and· drink in moderation. Please direct your questions and comments to Health/Fitness Editor. Box 1993. Who's Future Is It Anyway? By KRISTIE ARNHOLD Any senior who made the trek home for the weekend this term has inevitably encountered those acquaintances of one's parents whose primary concern is YOUR FUTURE. Upon entering the bank I spotted one, not just a friend, but a neighbor too. I dashed to the nearest teller, but my attempt was to no avail. \Kristie is that you? Why. you must be graduating this year. From ... where is that place, in Pennsylvania some place? \No Mrs. Nosepants, it is Union College in upstate New York.\ \What are your plans for next year? My Ophelia is, of course, graduating from Iian'ard and is gong to Stanford Medical School in the fall. Irene from down the street got a marvelous offer from SwissBank st!lrting at $50,000.\ \Gee thafs greaL Actually, I am rather unsure about my TAKE SOME TIME ON THURSDAY, MAY 18, AND CELEBRATE THE NOTT MEM.ORIAL. plans for ne:ct :year.\ Good Grief. I dreaded entering the video rental store but it was better than facing the b0redorn of the family living roon with no other entertainmeut except that of my mother trying to stay awake past eleven. Just as I had swiped my 13st copy of .. Big\ Mrs. Earful blocked my path. \Kristie darling, your mother me11tioned to me that you were· cDming .home. Are you excited :about graduatio11? Are you W()rking next year? '.'. How about th.at Blane boy that you've been seeing? You aren't thinking (}:f getting married are you? Sow y.our oats for a bit-- you know my Hattie is 42 and very happily single!\ \Actuall·:y~ I am rather uncertain as to my plans after gracluation, but thank you for your fud~tlvice.\ I really 11eeded shampoo.; but a trip t~ the drug store probably vro11ld have meant a dead neigbl>otnear the hair~care aisle. Althougll this is not an Ann CHRISTOPHER B. R. PELLING, Landers type of column, a bit of advice to those thinking of traveling home before or after graduation. Either avoid all parental contacts cr create some outlandish job offer, or plan for the future to keep them off your back. Tl;le next time I venture to the homestead, I propose to tell them that I am going to raise pigs with my new boyfriend Wilbur in Montana, and make extra money from belly dancing on the w~kends. :Fell·ow & Praelector in ClassicsUniversity College, Oxford will speak on:. . \ANTO·NV AND CLEOPATRA'·' (AN ILLUSTRATED LECTUR~) Thursdar, May 11, 1989 HUMANITIES LOUNGE 7:30 p~m . . THE LECTURE IS SPONSORED BY TKE DEPARtMENTS OF LITERATURE AND CLASSICS • ! j - -

CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 8 F·EATURES The Health And Fitness Column Uy JACQUELINE RANDALL Mruty of us suffer from work pressure in our telatio11ships, health issHes,. loneliness, and financial instability. Without thinking ffi'ltch about it, we sometimes respond by pouring ourselves an alcoholic drink, lighting a cigarette, overeating, or exercising excessively. Whether we are conscious of it or not, in each case we are trying to solve a problem but, in fact, are creating new ones. Most of us are drinking tnore alcohol this term because we have lighter schedules, the weather is nicer or we are graduating (finally). Many of the parties of spring term are centered around drinking. It is important to keep in mind that alcohol is the nation's leading mood-altering drug. It is extremly powerful and potentially addictive. Because alcohol drinking is more socially acceptable than takiHg other drugs, alcohol abuse is the most common form of drug abuse. Alcohol affects the body in a negative fashion. The most dramatic evidence of alcohol's impact appears in the liver. As we drink alcohol whether it is beer, wine coolers, or grain punch, they all diffuse through the walls of the stomach. So, if we don't eat before we drink, then the drink's effect will be more dramatic. Thus, if we don't want to become so \drunk\ at parties, we should eat high-fat snacks. Once our stomaclls are full, then the alcohol has less chance of touching the walls of the stomach and diffusing through and we don't get as \bombed.\ The liver is the only part of the body that detoxifies alcohol and converts it to usable cn~rgy. As we dri.nk nwrc and more, l!hc h:udcr our liver nas to work. When the liver attends to the alcohol ingested, other body functions are affected. First, protein synthesis is stopped beca11se the liver cells use all the available resources to make alcohol dehydrogenase. Second, .some important antibodies and other enzymes essen.tial to the health of the body are not syn!hesized either. So, eX:cessive drinking can lead to the risk of degeneration of the liver and liver cancer. Heavy drinking can also lead to cancer of the throat, mouth. larynx, and esophagus. Alcohol affects the stomach and can worsen ulcers and damage the stomach lining. It can also injure the liaing of tne small intestine. Alcohol is considered an aphrodisiac. As it may stimulate an interest in sexual activity. it on the other hand can impair performance. For men, alcoho 1 can cause temporary }()SS of potency by causing the liver to produce excessive amounts of the enzyme thl.l:t breaks down testosterone (the male · hormone). Women who drink during pregnancy may give birth t() babies having growth · abnormalities and birth defects. Alcohol can be a means of withdrawal .and some people use it eitbler consciously and unconsciously to help tbem sleep. Yet, alcohol can lead to insomnia an{i can diminish the body's ability to fight off infections. Alcohol can also cause headaches, nausea, dizziness and inhibit conception. Alcohol IJrovides the body with empty calories. Beer and wine contain some vitamins, minerals and carbohydrates, but the amount is so little that it doesn't rc ally provide s~:~bstantial nutritional value. Alcohol deprives the body of nutrients from other foods mat we eat. Alcohol is also a diuretic and can cause us to lose certain water-soluble rn incrals such as zinc, potassium and magnesium. Excessive drinking over a long time period can lead to physical addiction. How many times have we woke up with a splitting headache, stomach ache, dry mouth, shaky jitters and feelings of nausea? This is ~he famous hangover from last night's indulgence. While some believe that coffee and aspirin are good remedies, these may temporary relieve us. But, the most effective ~emedy is time and rest. Thus, coffee and exercise are obviously counterproductive. Before we dri11k, we should eat something that i,s high protein or fat such as mHk, cheese, meat or peanut butter. Drink slowly, and dilute drinks with ice and mix.ers. Be careful not to mix drinks with drugs. Remember that if you are tired or sick, the alcollol can affect your system more powerfully than usual. Lastly, try not to use alcohol as a problem solver and do not drink and drive (take security). On a good note, drinking in moderation (1-2 drinks a day) may seem to benefit our h~t and blood vessels. It can allow us to relieve tension. Some studies show that a moderate dose of alcohol can help the heart and can relax the muscles. So, eat healthy, get plenty of exercise, an<! drink in moderation. Please direct your questions and co mm en ts to Health/Fitness Editor, Box 1993. Who's Future Is It Anyway? By KRISTIE ~RNHOLD Any senior wllo made the trek horne for the weekend this term has inevitably encountered those acquaintances of one's parents whose primary concern is YOUR FUTURE. Upon entering the bank I spotted one, not just a friend, but a neighbor too. I dashed to the nearest teller, but my attempt was to no avail. \Kristie is that you? Why, you must l>e graduating this year. From ... where is that place, in Pennsylvania some place? \No Mrs. Nosepants, it is Union College in upstate New York.\ \What are your plans for next year? My Ophelia is, of course, graduating from Harvardandis gong to Stanford Medical School in the fall. Irene from down the street got a marvelous offer from SwissB ank starting at $50,000.\ \Gee that's great. Actually, I am rather unsure abont my . . . ~ '. . ,. . . ' . ; ~ ' ' ' . . ' ~ ~' . ~ ' TAK~E SOME TIME ON TH·URSDA Y, MAY 18, AND CELEBRATE THE NOTT MEMORIAL. plans for next year.\ Good Grief. I dreaded entering the video rental store but it was better than facing the boredom of the family living room with no other entertainment except that of my mother trying to stay awake past eleven. Just as I had swiped my last copy of \Big\, Mrs. Earful blocked my path. \Kristie darling, your mother mentioned to me that you were- coming home. Are you excited about graduation? Are you working next year? How about that Blane boy that you've bee11 seeing? You ruen't thinking of getting married are you? Sow your oats for a bit-- you know my Hattie is 42 and very happil:Y single!\ \Actually. I am rather uncertain as to my plans after graduation, but thank you for your kind advice.\ I really needed shampoo, but a trip to the drug store probably would have meant a dead neighbor near the hair-care aisle. Although this is not an Ann CHRISTOPI-IER B. R. PELLING, Landers type of column, a bit of advice to th0se thinking of traveling home before or after graduation. Either avoid all parental contacts or create some outlandish job offer, or plan for the future to keep them off your back. Tbe next time I venture to the homestead, I propose to tell them that I am going to raise pigs with my new boyfriend Wilbur in Montana, and make extra money from belly dancing on the weekends. Fellow & Praelector in Classics University College, Oxford will speak on: \ANTONY ANO CLEOPATRA\ (AN ILLUSTRATED LECTURE) Thursday, May 11, 1989 HUMANITIES LOUNGE 7:30p.m. THE LECTURE IS SPONSORED BY THE DEPARTMENTS OF LITERATURE AND CLASSICS • .. , ·' i I I 1 j I i •

\ \1 \l. ,..~ 1'1' ,. •• : ...... ., • ! ' .... CONCORDIENSJS MtJy 11, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY From the Colonization of Spac:e to the M·aint~nance of Wildlife Populations: Man-Made Wetlands for Wastewater Uy KEVIN GARDNER Science & Technology Editor ''Our :research into wetland treatment started 18 years ago with a desire to develop an ·effective closed-systern treatment process that could ultimately be used to treat wastewater in space colonization projects/' says Bill Wolverton, a research scientist who works at the Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. The space center had created wetlands consisting of floating water hyacinths in large lagoons by 1976~ Evet since 1976 the wel.lands have been treatirig the wastewater created by the 4,000 employees at the space center. The wetlands concept created :by NASA will be put to the test beginning next year. The Biosphere II project is a simulated .space station, Eight scientists will live und(¥r 2 acres of glass without contact with the outside warld. The. environment they live in is intended to be a complete and self-sufficient ecosystem, The airtight glass structure will contain a 20?000 square foot fann where all the food will be grown. There will also be a desert, ocean. marsh, lahoratory,library, apartments, and of course a wetlands system to treat their waste, (The questiol't that must be put to the reader is, \What is life without a wastewater treatment · facility?\) Wetlands usecl as wastewater treatment facilities have marty more applications than just being used in space. The other main thrust for the development of wetlai\ds treatment systems came from • the Tennessee V ~Hey Authority. they were concemed with the tratment of \:re4 wat.er.\ that is, the acid <bainage that is produced by coal mining in the Appalachians. The discovery was just that, a discovery. They found that untreated waste from a mine was flowing into a native· wetland, and upon exiting that wetland, the water was of very bigh quality. This finding. led to ·extensi:ve wetlands studies. and the TV A now has nine acid-mine wetlands treatment systems all operating above standard. Agricultural wastes are also eyeing wetlands for treatment. A~ Auburn University's agricultural school a wetland was created to treat the waste produced by the 50 hogs th~y have in residence there. The wetlands consist of cattails, bulrusbes, reeds, and sugarcane in native day soils. The future A Fracas Over Fusion By DON VALERIO Copy Editor The scientific community is in a major uproar over .the recent series of claims for the cheap and simple means of achieving sustained nuclear fusion at room temperature. The astounding proclamations began in late March; Dr. B. Stanley Pons, chairman of the University of Utah's chemistry department, and Dr: Martin Fleischmann, of the University of Southhampton in England, announced at a news conference that they had generated fusion neutrons in a jar. Any high . school student who has split water by electric current would. be acquainted with the simple fusion apparatus used by the two chemists. Pons and Fleischmann reported that they were getting up to an 800% energy yield - eight times as much energy out as they put in! This far exceeds the energy \break even\ that has forever eluded fusion experimenters. The high energy claim raised not only eyebrows, but also conjecture -amc:.mg dubious workers in the fusion field. Only several aspects of the experiment were released at the \time of the March 23 news conference, and no technical repart on the findings has yet been published. The conventional methods of scientific disclosure normally include the publication of a detailed paper in a peer- reviewed journal. The by- passing of this step has The Biology Department and Biology Club present KATHY KEENAN Genetics Counselor: Div. of Clinical Genetics Dept. of OB/GYN: Albany Medical Center 'IDGHLIGBTS in the Fll4:1 ,D of GENETICS: CAREER CHOICES, NEW DIRECTIONS, and ETHICAL ISSUES'. THURSDAY, MAY 11 4:40pm Social Sciences Room 016 Refreshments at 4:30 Host: Karen Williams contributed to a feeling of dismay and skepticism among many scientists, despite the fact that both Pons and Fleishchmann are respected and achieved researchers in their field. The technique the two used is simple: first, immerse two electrodes, one made of palladittm. the cathode, in a bath of heavy water, or deuterium oxide. Then, pass an electric current through the liquid. This .causes the heavy water to split into deuterium and o-xygen. Deuterium will collect on the cathode and infiltrate the network lattice structure of the palladium metal. There, in some as yet unexplained way, the ions of deuterium approach so closely that fusi1>n results, with high amollnts of energy released. Sea water provides a seemingly unlimited source of deuterium; t!lere is enough in one cubie fodt of sea water to provide the energy capabilities equivalent to that of ten tons of Coal. Sinpe the invention of the atomic bomb, however, most physicists have concluded that extremely high temperatures ranging anywhere from 1 0 million to 100 million degrees- fahrenheit would be necessary \ to get the heavy hydrogen nuclei to fuse. Hydrogen fusion is the ultimate energy source, It is non-polluting and is run by cheap and replenishable ·fuel. If the Pons and : Fleischmann team is right in will certainly see agricultural wastes such as pesticides and herbicides treated by wetlands. . Strategically placed wetlands could treat these harmful chemicals in tile fa:rmland runoff before they reach water :supplies. Wetlands used as wastewater · treatment are nearly identical to · natural wetlands, and as such, · are essential to the health of . our nation. Tile nutrients ·accumulated by wetlands ·.enhance the growth of all kinds · of plants. The .plants, in tom, : provide food, shelter, and nesti11g areas for all sorts of game and non-game animals as · well as the wet habitats needed by song birds, water fowl, birds of prey, aquatic insects, . amphibians, reptiles, and fish. Man-made wetlands are treating wastewater from coal . mines and from small towns, and man is looking toward the heavens with his purifying · swamps. Perhaps just as : important are the ecological . implication-s that these . extremely productive • ecosystems have for our · nation; that they will play a · crucial role in the maintenance . of a diverse and. healthy wildlife population. The inventors of the dubiOIJS room-temperature fusion. The Promises •t-~uclear fusion is clean. It would not produce gases that cause either acid rain or contribute to the greenhouse effect. . .. Fusion is safer than conventional atomic power, in which the reaction that splits atoms can run a!fluck. . . •Fusion uses cheap and VIrtUally Inexhaustible fuel. . •Fusion would alter geopolitics: OPEC would lose clout wh1le developing nations could produce all the energy they needed. Tile Problems •Cold fusion may not yield enough heat to drive a turbine, the conventional way of generating electricity. · •Cold fusion usillg palladium may not work~~ all.. . •The palladium, unlike the fuel, is expens1ve and rare, found mostly 1n South Africa and the Soviet Union. •It may be difficult-or impossible-to convert the apparatus from a tabletop model10 a massive commercial scale. their conclusions. theirs would be a significant energy breakthrough indeed. There are some problems, however. For example, a group at Utah's Brigham Young University has also reported successful attempts at achieving fusion at room temperature. Their process also involves the electrolytical .SJ)litting of heavy water and the infiltration of deuterium into palladium. The major difference, though, is that the Brigham Young group reports obtaining an -energy release some 10 trillion times smaller tban that obtained by Pons and Fleischmann. In the meantime, researchers iii dozens of laboratories around the world have been trying to replicate both groups' experiments. So far, all results have been conflicting and inconclusive. A bustle of tentative confirmations of several sections of the Pons- Fleischmann experiment have come from such reputable places as Texas A&M, Moscow University, and Kossuth University in Hungary. These endeavors remain unconvincing nonetheless. Other major labs, such as MIT, have had to reports of success. Until more experiments are done and more information is obtained, the best and only thing to do is to wait patienl.ly.

CONCORDJENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY From the Colonization of Space to the Maintenance of Wildlife Populations: Man-Made Wetlands for Wastewater By KEVIN GARDNER Scienl:e & Technology Editor \Our research into wetland treatment started 18 years ago with a desire to develop an effective closed-system treatment process that could ultimately be used to treat wastewater in space colonization projects,\ says Bill Wolverton, a research scientist who works at the Stennis Space Center in Mississippi. The space center had created wetlands consisting of floating water hyacinths in large lagoons by 1976. Ever since 1976 the wetlands have been treating the wastewater created by the 4.000 employees at the space center. The wetlands concept created by NASA will be put to the test beginning next year. The Biosphere II project is a simulated space station. Eight scientists will live under 2 acres of glass without comact with the outside world. The environment they live in is intended to be a complete and self-sufficient ecosystem. The airtight glass structure will contain a 20,000 square foot farm where all the food will be grown. There will also be a desert, ocean, marsh, laboratory, library, apartments, and of course a wetlands system to treat their waste. (The question that must be put to the reader is, \What is life without a wastewater treatment · facility?\) Wetlands used as wastewater treatment facilities have many more applications than just being used in space. The other main thrust for the development of wetlands treatment systems came from the Tennessee Valley Authority. They were concerned with the tratment of \red water,\ that is, the acid drainage that is produced by coal mining in the Appalachians. The discovery was just that, a discovery. They found that untreated waste from a mine was flowing into a native wetland, and upon exiting that wetland, the water was of very high quality. This finding led to extensive wetlands studies, and the TV A now has nine acid-mine wetlands treatment systems all operating above standard. Agricultural wastes are also eyeing wetlands for treatment. At Auburn University's agricultural school a wetland was created to treat the waste produced by the 50 hogs th~y have in residence there. The wetlands consist of cattails, bulrushes, reeds, and sugarcane in native clay soils. The future A Fracas Over Fusion By DON VALERIO Copy Editor The scientific community is in a major uproar over the recent series of claims for the cheap and simple means of achieving sustained nuclear fusion at room temperature. The astounding proclamations began in late March; Dr. B. Stanley Pons, chairman of the University of Utah's chemistry department, and Dr. Martin Fleischmann, of the University of Southhampton in England, announced at a news conference that they had generated fusion neutrons in a jar. Any high school student who has split water by electric current would be acquainted with the simple fusion apparatus used by the two chemists. Pons and Fleischmann reported that they were getting up to an 800% energy yield - eight times as much energy out as they put in! This far exceeds the energy \break even\ that has forever eluded fusion experimenters. The high energy claim raised not only eyebrows, but also conjecture among dubious workers in the fusion field. Only several aspects of the experiment were released at the time of the March 23 news conference, and no technical report on the findings has yet been published. The conventional methods of scientific disclosure normally include the publication of a detailed paper in a peer- reviewed j()urnal. The by- passing of this step has The Biology Department and Biology Club present KATHY KEENAN Genetics Counselor: Div. of Clinical Genetics Dept. ofOB/GYN: Albany Medical Center ''lllG~GBTS in the F'l El D of GENETICS: CAREER CHOICES, NEW DIRECTIONS, and ETHICAL ISSUES\ THURSDAY, MAY 11 4:40pm Social Sciences Room 016 Refreshments at 4:30 Host: Karen Williams contributed to a feeling of dismay and skepticism among many scientists, despite the fact that both Pons and Flcishcbmann are respected and achieved researchers in their field. The technique the two used is simple: first, immerse two electrodes, one made of palladittm, the cathode, in a bath of heavy water, or deuterium oxide. Then, pass an electric current through the liquid. This causes the heavy water to split into deuterium and oxygen. Deuterium will collect on the cathode and infiltrate the network lattice structure of the palladium metal. There, in some as yet unexplained way, the ions of deuterium approach so closely that fusion results, with high amounts of energy released. Sea water provides a seemingly unlimited source of deuterium; there is enough in one cubic foot of sea water to provide the energy capabilities equivalent to that of ten tons of coal. Since the invention of the atomic bomb, however, most physicists have concluded that extremely high temperatures ranging anywhere from 1 0 million to 100 million degrees fahrenheit would be necessary · to get the heavy hydrogen nuclei to fuse. Hydrogen fusion is the ultimate energy source. It is non-polluting and is run by cheap and replenishable fuel. If the Pons and . Fleischmann team is right in Problem of. the Week Suppose you have a six-minute \hour glass\ and an eleven-minute \hour glass,\ and you wish to measure thirteen minutes. Describe in detail how you would perform this measurement. Congratulations to Rick Picciocca, who correctly solved last week's problem of the week. Laszlo Boroczky, Jesse HuU, and Aaron Uan also submitted a correct solution to this problem. .Solutions should be submitted to lois Bing in . the Mathematics Department Office be1ween the hours of 9 a.m. - 11 a.m. and 2 .p.m. · 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted will receive the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions wit\ be posted on ttKl bulletin board outside Bailey 1 06. will certainly see agricultural wastes such as pesticides and herbicides treated by wetlands. Strategically placed wetlands could treat these harmful chemicals in the farmland runoff before they reach water supplies. Wetlands used as wastewater · treaunent are nearly identical to · natural wetlands, and as such, · are essential to the health of our nation. The nutrients · accumulated by wetlands · enhance the growth of all kinds of plants. The plants, in tum, provide food, shelter. and nesting areas for all sorts of game and non-game animals as · well as the wet habitats needed by song birds, water fowl, birds of prey, aquatic insects, . amphibians, reptiles, and fish. Man-made wetlands are treating wastewater from coal mines and from small towns, and man is looking toward the heavens with his purifying swamps. Perhaps just as · important are the ecological implications that these . extremely productive · ecosystems have for our nation; that they will play a crucial role in the maintenance . of a diverse and healthy wildlife population. The inventors of the dubious room-temperature fusion. The Promises •Nuclear fusion is clean. It would not produce gases that cause either aciEl rain or contribute to the greenhouse effect. •Fusion is safer than conventional atomic power, in which ltle reaction that splits atoms can run a~uck. . . •Fusion uses cheap and vtrtua\ly tnexhausttble fuel. . •Fusion would alter geopolitics: OPEC would lose clout whtle developing nations could produce all the energy they needed. The Problems •Cold fusion may not yield enough heat to drive a turbine, the conventional way of generating electricity. •Cold fusion using palladium may not work at all. . •The palladium, unlike the fuel, is expensive and rare, found mostly tn South Africa and the Soviet Union. •It may be difficult-or impossible-to convert the apparatus from a tabletop model to a massive commercial scale. their conclusions, theirs would be a significant energy breakthrough indeed. There are some problems, however. For example, a group at Utah's Brigham Young University has also reported successful attempts at achieving fusion at room temperature. Their process also involves the electrolytic at splitting of heavy water and the infiltration of deuterium into palladium. The major difference, though, is that the Brigham Young group reports obtaining an energy release some 10 trillion times smaller than that obtained by Pons and Fleischmann. In the meantime, researchers in dozens of laboratories around the world have been trying t0 replicate both groups' experiments. So far, all results have been conflicting and inconclusive. A bustle of tentative confirmations of several sections of the Pons- Fleischrnann experiment have come from such reputable places as Texas A&M, Moscow University, and Kossuth University in Hungary. These endeavors remain unconvincing nonetheless. Other major labs, such as MIT, have had to reports of success. Until more expcl'iments are done and more information is obtained, the best and only thing to do is to wait patiently .

CONCORDIENSJS May· 11, 1989 INT.ERNATIONAL FEATURES Union Establishes New East Asian Program \ Ill the By SHELLEY SZVMKO > ( !;)/2/89 - 5/8/89) World South Korea: On the ~ve of the May Day labor holiday, labor · and dissident groups rallied in Sequl and called for the oustirng ol President Roh. The protestors could not be controlled by secunty forces so :riot police came to the scene and arrested them for their incorrigible behavior. Israel': Heightened violence between Palestinians and .Jewish settlers in the occupied Wes·t Bank and Gaza Strip were discussed by the Israeli Cabinet Defense Minister Rabin said that harsher steps toward the Arabs will be implemented if they fail to accept Prime Minister Shamir's offer of electionR In addition, Rabin rejects the proposal of freer use of firearms by settlers. Great Britain: Br.itain is likely to increase its emphasis on nuclear power in order to fight against the greenhouse effect The greenhouse effect, the global waming of the earth, is expected to bring abou.t an increase between 1 .5 and 4.5 degrees c.entigrade of the earth withira the next century. Resulting would be an increase in sea levels and disasterous effeds on agriculture. Britain is to reduce its coal burning plants and switch to nuclear burning plants and Prime Minister Margaret fh.atcher is ambitiously seeking internationa'l leadership to solve this environmental problem. By DON 'THURSTON Professor of Political Science and History The newly established East Asian Studies Program is now able to accept majors. Students interested in declaring a major in East Asian Studies are urged to see Professor Thurston, the Director of !.he Program. The major consists of 14 interdisciplinary courses on East Asia: three introductory courses, at least four courses in Chinese or Japanese language, five electives, and a two-term senior project. A detailed description of the major and tlte courses available can be obtained from Professor Thurston. In addition to the courses on East Asia already being taught, the Program will be able to introduce several new ones over the next two years. The Department of Modern Languages, for example, beginning tfi,is faH term will offer both first-year Chinese and Japanese. These courses in \Basic Chinese\ and \Basic Japanese\ are open to all students. not just to those planning to go on the Term in China or Japan. For students who hope to go on the Term in China or Japan, of course, the more language study prior to the Term Abroad, the richer the experience. With full-time professors available for the first time in both Chinese and Japanese language instruction, students who choose to do so wiH be able to complete at least two years of Chinese or Japanese while at Union, giving them a solid fou11dation in the language. Another new course in the Program that will be offered this fall by the Department of Modem Languages is \Japan Through lts Literature.\ This course will be given by the new Japanese language instructor, Professor Roy Starrs, Reading Japanese literature in translation, students will focus on 1,000 years of Japanese literature, from the ancient myths and court romances through the medieval No drama and Haiku to the modem psychological drama h addition, two new courses in ihe Program will be offered in the winter term by members in the Economics 'Department. Pr()fessor Reynolds will offer \11\e East Asian Development N«<el,\ which will explore the st~rtling success of the e.cenomics of Japan, Korea, 1aiwan, HongKong, Singapore ~d the People's. Republic of Cl\lna. Also in the winter teflll, Professor Fried will teach \U.S.- Japanese Econemic 'Roelations\ which will focus in :partie ular on .the trad·e imbalance. In 1990-91 the Program in East Asian Studies will add Mo 11ew coutses: one in East .A.-sian music, to be taught by Pl'ofessor Tann, and the second inJapanese management, to be ll!11ght by Professor Nydegger. Students who have questions a\bout these language or literature courses may contact J»rofessor Kellenter., Chair of tile Modern Languages Department; Professor :~eynold, Economics Department; or Professor rl1urston. Director of the E~t ~ian Studies Program. Eastern Europe: One hundred thousand Solidarity supporters marched the streets of Warsaw rejecting communisr11 on May Day as it was the union's first legal May Day protest following a seven-year ban. In the cities of Gdansk. and Wroclaw, riot police also battled with dissident youths. In the Soviet Union, however, the \bite and bombast\ of the May day celebration has lightened compared to the May Day celebrations un-der the Stalin and Brezhnev eras. The celebration was far from political as the country is undergoing a process ol de-idologization, and a goal toward increased national and interntional peace is evident as a placard urged: The International Relations Club presents: \Peace for everyone.\ A panel discussion on St. Denis Island, French Indian Ocean: The city of Reun1on. St. Denis Island, is to receive a visit from Pope John Paul II who paid tnbute to the racial harmony present in the multi· ethn1c community, which has the highest living standard in the lnd1an Ocean. Reun.ion's well-kept ro·ads and homes are a strong contrast to the poverty the Pope will see on his visits to Madagascar,Zambia, and Malawi. \FOREIGN POLICY IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION\ . Thursday, May 18 in the College Center Atrium I.S.U. Organizes International Week Hy LAURA CALVI ISU Chairman This year the International Student Union will co-sponsor the International Week from Monday, May 15 to Saturday, May 20. Two special events will start and conclude the week. On Monday, May 15, after the German movie (see schedule for more details), in the College Center Atrium, ISU members present \Travel With ISU: Dances; Music and National Costumes.\ The event will start at 9 p.m. Union College students will perform national dances from India, Mrica and Eastern Asia, in their national costumes. These performances will offer the chance to the Union community to experience the cultural diversity that our campus can offer. The Inten1ational students have a lot to give and are always proud to share their background. This year. again, Marinia, a belly dancer. wil perform with us. To conclude the program, the International students will be modeling international costumes. Refreshments will be offered. , Earlier on Mdnday, from 12:45 to 1:33 ... Parlez vous francais?? Then come to the French Table, in the CC Dining Halt At the same time and place, practice your Japanese at the Japanese Language Table. At 7:30, in the fourth floor lounge, CC,the German Club and the Modem Language Department present \Fruhlingssymphonie with Nastassja Kinski and Herbert Gronemeyer. After the movie, come down and enjoy dances and music in the Atrium. On Tuesday; -Chinese Language T!ible, 12-12:.50 p.m. in the CC Dining Hall. TheRussian Club and. the Modern Languages Department will show a Russian movie (title to be announced) in the CC fourth floor lounge. On Wednesday. Willst du Deutsch sprechen? So Komm mal zri dem German Table!$ Si Usted habla espanol. el miercoles hay la Mesa Continued on page 11 Term in Washington, 1990 The Political Science Department announces that applications for ne)(t year's Washington program will be available on Tuesday, May 16 at a 4:00p.m. informational meeting in Soc. Sci. 103, This meeting will provide the best opportunity for prospective applicants to hear about the program. and to ask. questions~ Applications must be completed and returned to the Political Science Department office (SS 216). by 4:30 p •. m., Wednesday, May 31. You must apply by then if you want to be considered for next year's program. Profs. Clifford Brown and Charles Tidmarch will conduct the May 16 meeting. Applications will! not be available prior to the meeting. ************~*********** ITALIAN MOVIE: \GINGER & FRED\ By Federico Fellini Staring Marcello Mastroianni and G. Masina · Thursday 7:00pm-~ cc 4()6 ************~*********** GET INTO SOMETHING GOOD ... WRITE F·OR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Contact Anthee ~74-3833, Mike x6832 •' !. I

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEA TURE:S Union Establishes New East Asian Program This Week • 10 the By SHELLEY SZYMKO (5/2/89 - 5/8/89) World South Korea: On the eve of the May Day labor holiday, labor and dissident groups rallied in Seoul and called for the ousting of President Roh. 1he protestors could not be controlled by security forces so riot police came to the scene and arrested them for their incorrigible behavior. Israel: Heightened violence between Palestinians and Jewish settlers in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip were discussed by the Israeli Cabinet. Defense Minister Rabin said that harsher steps toward the Arabs will be implemented if they fail to accept Prime Minister Shamir's offer of elections. In addition, Rabin rejects the proposal of freer use of firearms by settlers. Great Britain: Britain is likely to increase its emphasis on nuclear power in order to fight against the greenhouse effect. The greenhouse effect, the global warning of the earth, is expected to bring about an increase between 1 .5 and 4.5 degrees centigrade of the earth within the next century. Resulting would be an increase in sea levels and disasterous effects on agriculture. Britain is to reduce its coal burning plants and switch to nuclear burning plants and Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher is ambitiously seeking international leadership to solve this environmental problem. By DON THURSTON Professor of Political Science and History The newly established East Asian Studies Program is now able to accept majors. Students interested in declaring a major in East Asian Studies are urged to sec Professor Thurston, the Director of .the Program. The major consists of 14 interdisciplinary courses on East Asia: three introductory courses, at least four courses in Cllinese or Japanese language, five electives, and a two-term senior project. A detailed description of the major and the courses available can be obtained from Professor Thurston. 1n addition to the courses on East Asia already being taught, the Program will be able to introduce several new ones over the next two years. The Department of Modern Languages, for example, beginning this fall term will oner both first-year Chinese and Japanese. These courses in \Basic Chinese\ and \Basic Japanese\ are open to all students, not just to those planning to go on the Tenn in China or Japan. For students who hope to go on the Tem1 in China or Japan, of course, the more laaguage study prior to the Term Abroad, the richer th.e experience. With f>ull-time professors avai:lable for the first time in both Chinese and Japanese language instruction, students who choose to do so will be able to complete at least two years of Chinese or Japanese while at Union, giving them a solid foundation in the language. Another new course in the Program that will be offered this fall by the Department of Modern Languages is \Japan Through Its Literature.\ This course will be given by the new Japanese language instructor, Professor Roy Starrs. Reading Japanese literature in translation, students will focus on 1 ,000 years of Japanese literature, from the ancient myths and court romances thr:ough the medieval No drama and Haiku to the modern psychological drama. In addition, two new courses in the Program wHl be offered in i:he winter term by members in the Economics Department. Professor Reynolds wiU offer \The East Asian Development Model,\ which will explore the startling success of the economies of Japan, Korea, Taiwan, HongKong, Singapore and the People's Republic of China. Also in the winter tenn, Professor Fried will teach \U.S.- Japanese Economic Relations\ which wiH focus in particular on . the trade imbalance. In 1990-91 the Program in East Asian Studies will add two new courses: one in East Asian music, to be taught by Professor Tann, and the second in Japanese management, to be taught by Professor Nydegger. Students who have questions about these language or literature courses may contact Professor Kellenter, Chair of the Modern Languages Department; Professor Reynold, Economics Department; or Professor Thurston, Director of the East Asian Studies Program. Eastern Europe: One hundred thousand Solidarity supporters marched the streets of Warsaw rejecting communism on May Day as it was the union's first legal May Day protest following a seven-year ban. In the cities of Gdansk and Wroclaw, riot police also battled with dissident youths. In the Soviet Union, hoVJever, the \bite and bombast\ of the May day celebration has lightened compared to the May Day celebrations un-der the Stalin and Brezhnev eras. The celebration was far from political as the country is undergoing a process of de-idologization, and a goal toward increased national and intemtional peace is evident as a placard urged: The International Relations Club presents: \Peace for everyone.\ A panel discussion on St. Denis Island, French Indian Ocean: The city of Reunion, St. Denis Island, is to receive a visit from Pope John Paull I who paid tribute to the racial harmony present in the multi- ethnic community, which has the highest living standard in the lnd1an Ocean. Reunion's well-kept roads and homes are a strong contrast to the poverty the Pope will see on his visits to Madagascar, Zambia, and Malawi. \FOREIGN POLICY IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION\ . Thursday, May 18 in the CoUege Center Atrium I.S.U. Organizes International Week By LAURA CALVI ISlJ Chairman This year the International Student Union will co-sponsor the International Week from Monday, May 15 to Saturday, May 20. Two spc.cial events will start and conclude the week. On Monday, May 15, after the German movie (sec schedule for more details), in the College Center Atrium, ISU members present \Travel With ISU: Dances, Music and National Costumes.\ The event will start at 9 p.m. Union College students will perform national dances from India, Africa and Eastern Asia, in their national costumes. These performances wHl offer the chance to the Union community to experience the cultural diversity that our campus can offer. The International students have a lot to give and are always proud to share their background. This year, again, Marinia, a belly dancer, wil perform with us. To conclude the program, the International students will be modeling international costumes. Refreshments will be offered. Earlier on Monday, from 12:45 to 1:33 ... Parlez vous francais?? Then come to the French Table, in the CC Dining Hall. At the same time and place, practice your Japanese at the Japanese Language Table. At 7:30, in the fourth floor lounge, CC,thc German Club and the Modem Language Department present \Fruhlingssyrnphonie with Nastassja Kinski and Herbert Gronemeyer. After the movie, come down and enjoy dances and music in the Allium. On Tuesday, Chinese Language Table, 12-12:50 p.m. in the CC Dining Hall. TheRussian Club and the Modem Languages Department will show a Russian movie (title to be announced) in the CC fourth floor lounge. On Wednesday, Willst du Deutsch sprechen? So Komm mal zu dem Gennan Table!! Si Usted habla espanol, el miercoles hay Ia Mesa Continued on page 11 Term in Washington, 1990 The Political Science Department announces that applications for next year's Washington program will be available on Tuesday, May 16 at a 4:00 p.m. informational meeting in Soc. Sci. 103. This meeting will provide the best opportunity for prospective applicants to hear about the program and to ask questions. Applications must be completed and returned to the Political Science Department office (SS 216) by 4:30 p.m., Wednesday, May 31. You must apply by then if you want to be considered for next year's program. Profs. Clifford Brown and Charles Tidmarch will conduct the May 16 meeting. Applications willl not be available prior to the meeting. ************************ ITALIAN MOVIE: \GINGER & FRED\ By Federico Fellini Staring Marcello Mastroianni and G. Masina Thursday 7:00pm cc 406 ************************ GET INTO SOMETHING GOOD ... WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Contact: Anthee 374-3833, Mike x6832

I ,. \. CONCORDIBNSIS Ma, 11, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES. ~::- ~-,;~~-. ~ .. ·(!~:,';:-t~\~ \:-~;:;·'*~-%~:.;-.-:::..o:· ·'t· -:0 ;:· •. -::~! .. _;:'' ;~ .,.._ .... ~ ,.·· :~ -:· ~--···-::·.:·> • -, '. ._, •..._.• -:- ·-:· -:~? . -:.-· ·- raneFttlt$'fiflationatt·•~tm@rS. AISG leattHimo: Oean. of Stutiell:tS) - . 12\JU:t·1~#'\ t\ffi\' • ·e...r.. 1'\J-~M t.f,'..;Jt~ · .. - • ...-w• _. -~v. ~> - -·~r - --. -~~ ~Ull{ .. - :•:.t~~~ ·.;.;. _-_ ,·• ·:•'' ' . ,, > . ., ·'. · .. ·:'*~ .. ,~.-~---···;:> 't:~~b_l_._~J.~_-···.· ·-----:\,' --. CC Atrium FRI'DAY, MAY 19 SATURDAY, MAY 20 ,_ 8:00-10:00 pm: tLlUSIONS: A modem European and American Fashion Show. Sponsor~d by ISU. l*'ww4W';;i®xpiwt%tt4t•dl\%f*Bmw(t\~~;tfu~Mil Travel· With the International Students Continued from page 10 Espanola. Or, if Russian is your favorite language, join the Russian Table. All of these Language Tables are held from 12:45~1~30 at the CC Dining Hall. On - Thursday... Parlate Italiano? E Allora... come to the Italian Table, 12 to 12:50 or later~ CC Dining Hall. At 7:00 p.m., CC fourth floor lounge, the Italian Club and the Dean of Students present \Grand Affari in via della Madonna\ (\'Big Deal in Madonna Street\) with Marcelio !vfastroianni, in Italian with Englisb subtitles. On Friday, join all the Internatienal students for lunch, frem 12:45-1:30, inc the CC Dining Hall!! Everybody is welcome! Concluding the week, on Saturday, May 2() 1 from 8 to 10 p.m. in the College Center Atrium, the I11ternational Student Union presents: U.LUSIONS, a European and American Contemp<>ry Fashion Show. The eveflt will be featuring models from the Union College community and clothing from Fiorucci, Emporio A.rmani, Cohoes, The Gap, Benetton and others. s~. travel with us this coming week. You will find out that many of these activities, like the Language Tables and the movies, are offered to the Union Community every week. But you have to come, you have to make the first move... So, please, next week come with us, the International .students. Travel with ISU. Every week will be a new adventure. 111E IDEA OF'I'URNING·~TARC1'1CAIN10 A WORLD PARK ISFORIHE BIRDS. When some people first . hear about our plan toturn the South Pole into .a World Park, ' they think we've been out in the snow too long. But then we tell then\ some- really crazy. how some cottr1trles ·like to drill for oil there. In spite of the fact th_·. · at long winters and dangerous ice· bergs could Keep an oil spill spewing for months. And h()w others would like to strip mine for minerals on a continent so unrenewable a single footprint will last for over ten years. And how still others would like to harvest the 'seas in an ecosystem that's as delicate as a baby penguin. But with your support we could stop that cold. Greenpeace has already collected a million signatures in favor of preserving Antarctica as a World Park. Make a donation. Let's keep Antarctica, as pure as sno>V. GREENPEACE 1436 U .Street, Washington, DC 20009 INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By A.NTHEE CARASSA. VAS Inter11atlonal Features Editor \What is your favmite International Drink?\ Stephanie Jary11a '8' -- \Irish Coffee:.\ Sue Shaffer '8!.' -- A jlint of Dogbolter ( a British ale made at the Firkin Ptlbs ), Kevin Honikel '9() -- MALATOV c<Jcktails. They've got a certain pizzazz yo11 j11st .dcnl fmd in othe-r drinks. Gevork Nakbapetian -· Apricot juice because my Mom always squeezes fresh jnioe from our Armenian gardens. Avto Gigineisll\i1i -· Cucumber juice. Mel Henderso11 '9() -· \Dave's Meg,a Punch.\ Where elst~ can you get a juice th.at bites back. Colleen McAufeE '91 -- Hawaiiall Punch with tequila and worm. Ellen Nichols ~91 ·-Tea that the Japanese women give you before dinner. Karabeba '89 -- My all time favorites arc champagne., seven and seven~ atu:l that which I dnuik Saturday night.

CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES .1tfr~~~~I~C{t1~kA~~~~TJo~~~. *********** .·· IIION·DAY, ·MAY 15 12:45 .. 1 :~0 .Pf!t! · CoU~;~e O~nter Dining Han frenCh 8JlQ. J~anese Language Tabfe 7:30~rn: Q>ltege ,Qt,nt'Jr 4th Floor Lounge '*Fruhlingsymphonielt (Spring Symphonie) witt Nasta~ia Kinski and Herbert Gronemeyer in German with English subtitles. (Sponsored by the Modem B~p-t. and the German Club). 9:00pm: CatJeffe C~ni&r Atrium . . \Trav~t ~~Jhe I:S:U\- dance, music and internationaJ costumes. Also featuring: Th~ ,ln<:i\9..~ · Qance The Fa-n Dance ···~ Merinial' The Belly Dancer The Tradi1ionalln1emational Cos1umes Fashion Show REFREStfMENTS ! I I TUESDAY, MAY 16 12:00-12:50 pm: CC Dining Hall Chinese Language Table 7:00pm: . GC 4th Floor Lounge Russian Movie (Sponsored by the Modern Language Dept. and the Russian Club.) 12:45-1:30 pm: WI;DNESDAY, MAY 17 CC Dining HaU GermanJ Spanish and Russian Language Tables 12:00-12:50: T:HURSDAY, MAY 18 cc Dining Han JtaJ1an language T atbl:~ 7:00pm: CC 4th Fto.or.,Lounge \Big Deal in Madonna Stre~t\ with Marcello Mastroianni in Italian, with English subtitles. (Sponsored by the Italian Club and the Dean of St:ude.trts) 12:45-1 :30 pm:. CC Dining Ha~l International Tab~~, CC Atrium FRIDAY, MAY 19 SATURDAY, MAY 20 8:00.-10:00 pm: l'lLUSIONS: A modern European and American Fashion Show. Sponsored by tSU. Ctot'hes sponsored by: F . . ' tontcct Glorgio Armani ~a:lph Lauren TheG~,· Benetton Travel With the International Students Continued from page 10 Espanola. Or, if Russiaa is your favorite language, join the Russian Table. All of tllese Language Tables are held from 12:45-1:30 at the CC Dining Hall. On Thursday... Parlate Italiano? E All ora... come to the Italian Table, 12 to 12:50 or later, CC Dining HalL At 7:00 p.m., CC fourth floor lounge, the Italian Club and the Dean of Students present \Grand Affari in via della Madonna\ (\Big Deal in Madonna Street\) with iv:iarcelio Mastroianni, in Italian with English subtitles. On Friday, join all the International students for lunch, from 12:45-1:30, inc the CC Dining Hall!! Everybody is welcome! Concluding the week, on Saturday, May 20, from 8 to 10 p.m. in the College Center Atrium, the International Student Union presents: ILLUSIONS, a European and American Contempory Fashion Show. The event will be featuring models from the Union College community and clothing from Fiorucci, Emporio Armani, Cohoes, The Gap, Benetton and others. So, travel with us this coming week. You will find out that many of these activities, like the Language Tables and the movies, are offered to the Union Community every week. But you have to come, you have to make the first move... So, please, next week come with us, the International students. Travel with ISU. Every week will be a new adventure. 1HE IDEA OF TURNING ANTARCTICA INTO A WORLD PARI IS FOR THE BIRDS. When some people first hear about our :plan to tum the South Pole into a World Park, ' they think we've been out in the snow too long. But then we tell them some- . really crazy. Like how some countries like to drill for oil there. In spite of the fact that long winters and dangerous ice· bergs could keep an oil spill spewing for months. And how others would like to strip mine for minerals on a continent so unrenewable a single footprint will last for over ten years. And how still others would like to harvest the.seas in an ecosystem that's as delicate as a baby penguin. But with your support we could stop that cold. Green peace has alreml y collected a million signatures in favor of preserving Antarctica as a World Park. Make a donation. Let's keep Antarctica as pure as sno\v. GREEJVPEACE 1436 U Street, Washington, DC 20009 INTERNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS International Features Editor \What is your favorite International Drink?\ Stephanie Jaryna '89 -- \Irish Coffee.\ Sue Shaffer '89 -- A pint of Dogbolter ( a British ale made at the Firkin Pubs). Kevin Honikel '90 -- MALATOV cocktails. They've got a certain pizzazz you just don't fmd in other drinks. Gevork Nakhapetian -- Apricot juice because my Mom always squeezes fresh juice from our Armenian gardens. A vto Gigineishvili -- Cucumber juice. Mel Heoderson '90 -- \Dave's Mega Punch.\ Where else can you get a juice that bites back. Colleen McAufee '91 -- Hawaiian Punch with tequila and worm. Ellen Nichols '91 -- Tea that the Japanese women give you before dinner. Karabeba '89 -- My all time favorites arc champagne, seven and seven, and that which 1 drank Saturday night.

. Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS May 11, 1989 . . . <!rllltflltbirnsis LET'TERS Founded at Union College 1871 --- Union College Is A Disgrace to the United States Be A Part of Democracy Student Forum elections are tomorrow in the To .the Editors: College Center; where what seems like hundreds of The United States of students mill between classes. This Friday one may America is the only country cast his or her vote, taking part in an exercise that thattakes pride in herJlag. The many, not only on this campus, but nationwide, take only one that has special rules for ·granted. If there is one active role you play on . · pertaining to the flag and when · it flys and when it does not. this College Campus through the years you are at The only on~ that insists it be Union --to cast your ·vote should be that functio.n you . burned if it is soiled or brushes perform. You are being given the right to choose, to with the ground. It is a symbol make your voice heard--the exact request often cried of pride and honor that was b h d h Ad · · · · D made by the forefathers of our out y t e stu ents to t e mtntsttatmn. · o not . country. Union College is throw away your right to complain if the elected · apparently not in the United officials do injustices -to their positions and the States of America. The flag students they represent. Do not throw away the that da11gles before the·ru.gby grounds for your right to be proud of their field could not be that of the accomplishments. This is where it all starts--with U.S.A. It bas, to m.y knowledg,e, never been your vote. removed from. the pole,. nl}t in Tile candidates took the time to gather your ,. rain or snow or .even at ni~ht. signatures for the opportunity to run. The ,}eas-t you merely takes ten minue.s each day to .care for our flag. I do not think the R.O.T . .C. program would object to caring for the symbol that they will soon serve and protect following graduation from Union. l myself would find it a · great .person~l honor to be the. one to raise the flag in the morning and lower it at dusk:. It would be easy to simply remove .the flag when tne· weather started turning haJ.'sh. · · This school is a disgrace to our ' country .. The flag that now flys · should be burned so no Oile , will see how we - have 6i:,shofti>red our forefathers,. o:u .llome; so ihat we ma,y try tO · f.orget What we have dOne. Matt TrainQ~. '97, can <1(), an(! with much less effort than they put into the endeavor, is to follow through with your support of the game of politics and cast your vote. Give these .candidates the recognition they deserve for their efforts. Dignify this election and make· it creditable. Parents' Weekend Conflicts with Exam Last year only 25 percent of undergraduates voted in the elections. Only 28 per9ent of the freshman class bothered to check the boxes next to the name of their choice candidates. The percentages of the sophomore and the junior classes that made it to the polls on May 6, 1988 were not much better. It looks like a hearty race this year--there are really no ex:.cuses not to vote. Concordiensis does not back any individual participant in thfs or any year's elections. What this paper promotes is the student body's active participation in the election itself--candidates and voters .. This is a strong race--much competition is present for most of the positions. It is hoped that a strong turl}out of voters will complement the strong twnout of candidates. · Resources Required Union College, as stated in the 1988-89 catalog, \believes that every student should learn to gather and evaluate information, to think coherently, to write succinctly, to form aesthetic judgments, and to view a time and place from a perspective of knowledge. This same institution has a pitifully inadquate library system. It is unfortunate that Union does not back up its admirable goals with the necessary resources. Senior thesis writers~ engineers, English majors, students from all areas of study are disappointed with the library. An institution of Union's caliber, which establishes such commendable goals for itself, needs to make the library accessible as well as improve its resources. The library closes at 11:00 p.m. throughout the week, a time in which students involved with extracurricular activities are just becoming engrossed in their studies. T~is institution complains of the weekend social pressure yet it fails t() stimulate, nor allows the student who wishes to study on a Saturday evening the opportunity to do so. Saturday night activities make most dorms and residences impossible to study in. Students with serious projects often like to work Saturday night · when they will pot be bothered by the library S()cializers, yet the library closes at 5:00 p.m. on Satu.rdays. Libraries play a fundamental role in the proces.s of' a college education. While Union has worked so hard to improve other aspects of the campus this. essential intellectual resource ~as been, fo.r the greater part, ignored. We have the gym, we have the college center. Thank you. Please may we now have! a library? To the .Editors: Just recently, a student in one of my classes asked if our profe~sor would reschedule our second and final hour exam of · the trimester currently . scheduled for Monday, May 15; for t~is is the day after Parents' Weekend. Although the professor admitted his mistake, he denied the student's request, saying that he did not realize this when he made up the course syllabus and that this was a perfect time to have the Take Notice, Union Students To the Editors: Student Forum Elections are TOMORROW from 9:00 to 4:00 in the College Center. As stated in the student consitution, students elected to Student Forum positions ·will take on the continuing \ ... responsibility for promoting the student body of Union College.\ TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS! Exercise your right to VOTE: Respectfully, The 1988-89 Student Forum Elections Board r-----------------~- ALL LETTERS TO THE~DITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TOTiffi CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4-:00. P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOus· LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEPTED. exam. Tile professor has every right to deny the student's request; however. Parents' Weekend should be art exti;muating cir<Jumstance. Parents' Weekend is an important time for many students and their families, as . it enables students to be with theh families who they may not !lave seen in quite some time, and it enables parents- to see what, they are paying eigbteeen thousand dollars a yeal'for; The exact date of Parents' Weekend was set far before the, school year even began, and the . date was clearly made known to all. I understand that the professor is -restricted to only a · ten week :period in which he · has to cover a tremendoQ.s amount of material, . but rescheduling the test to later in the :week, while moving on toO new material in the meantime, would not be a very difficult alternative. -David Sachar '92 ._.. ·- tl L ir p c, p 0 a e p il tl 11

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS May 11, 1989 . <!rnnrnrbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 --- Be A Part of Democracy Student Forum elections are tomorrow in the College Center, where what seems like hundreds of students mill between classes. 'This Friday one may cast his or her vote, taking part in an exercise that many, not only on this campus, but nationwide, take for granted. If there is one active role you play on · this College Campus through 1he years you are at Union--to cast your vote should be that function you perform. You are being given the right to choose, to· make your voice heard--the exact request often cried out by the students to the Administration. Do not throw away your right to complain if the elected officials do injustices to th.eir positions and the students they represent. Do not throw away the grounds for your right to be proud of their accomplishments. This is where it all starts--with your vote. The candidates took the tirne to gather your signatures for the opportunity to run. The least you can do, and with much less effort than they put into the endeavor, is to follow tb.rough with your support of the game of politics and cast your vote. Give these candidates the recognition. they deserve for their efforts. Dignify this election and make it creditable. Last year only 25 percent of undergraduates voted in the elections. Only 28 percent of the freshman class bothered to check the box.es next to the name of their choice candidates. The percentages of the sophomore and the junior classes that made it to the polls on May 6, 1988 were not much better. It looks like a hearty race this year--there are really no excuses not to vote. Concordiensis does not back any individual participant in this or any )'ear·s elections. What this paper promotes is the student body's active participation in the election itself--candidates and voters. This is a strong race--much competition is present for most of the positions. It is hoped that a strong turnout of voters will complement the strong .turnout of candidates. · Resources Required Union College, as stated in the 1988-89 catalog, \believes that every student should learn to gather and evaluate information, to think coherently, to write succinctly, to form aesthetic judgments, and to view a time and place fr()m a perspective of knowledge. This same institution has a pitifully inadquate library system. It is unfortunate that Union does not back up its admirable goals with the necessary resources. Senior thesis writers, engineers, English majors, students from all areas of study are disappointed with the I i brary. An institution of Union's caliber, which establishes such commendable goals for itself, needs to make the library accessible as well as improve its resources. The library closes at 11:00 p.m. throughout the week, a time in which students involved with extracurricular activities are just becoming engrossed in their studies. This institution complains of the weekend social pressure yet it fails to stimulate, nor allows the student who wishes to study on a Saturday evening the opportunity to do so. Saturday night activities make most dorms and residences impossible to study in. Students with serious projects often like to work Saturday night· when they will not be b()thered by the library socializers, yet the library closes at 5:00 p.m. on Saturdays. Libraries play a fundamental role in the process of a college education. While Union has worked so hard to improve other aspects of the campus this essential intellectual resource has been, for the greater part, ignored. We have the gym, we have the college center. Thank you. Please may we now havej a library? LET'TERS Union College Is A Disgrace to the United States To the Editors: The United States of America is the only country that takes :pride in her flag. The only onetlmt has special rules pertaining to the flag and when it flys and when it does not. The only one that insists it be burned if it is soiled or brushes with the gmund. It is a symbol of pride :and honor that was made by the forefathers of our country. Union College is apparen1ly not in the United States of America. The flag that dangles before the rugby field could not be that of the U.S.A. It has, to my knowledge, never been removed from the pole, not in rain or snow or even at night. The edges are tattered and 'liere is a tear that runs a foot and a half down lhe middle of the flag. l'<J my greatest dismay, I discovered that the flag was, in fact, a United States flag. This college is spitting on the image Df this country! I am ashamed to be part of an insti~ution that does not take better care of that which is the symbol of our independence. Americ:kn soldiers are draped in the flag before they are buried. The flag then represents their personal achievements for the country. People have died for this flag and the administtaoon lets the one at Union be torn apart ~Y foul weather and constant flight in the high winds of Schenectady. It merely takes ten minues each day to .care for our flag. I do not think the R.O.T.C. pr.ogram would object to caring for the symbol that they will soon serve and protect following graduation from Union. I myself would find it a ·great personal honor to be the one to raise the flag in the morning and lower it at dusk. It would be easy to simply liemove the flag when the weather started turning harsh. This school is a disgrace to our country. The flag that now flys sBould be burned so no one wiU see how we have Elishooored eur forefathers, our lltime. so that we may try to forget what we have done. Matt Trainor '92 Parents' Weekend Conflicts with Exam To the Editors: Just Fecently, a student in one of my classes asked if our professor would reschedule our second and final hour exam of the trimester currently scheduled for Monday, May 15; for this is the day after Parents' Weekead. Although the professor admitted his mistake, he denied the stadent's request, saying that he did not realize this when he made up the course syllabus and that this was a perfect time to have the Take Notice, Union Students To the Editors: Student Forum Elections are TOMORROW from 9:00 to 4:00 in the College Center. As stated in the student consitution, students elected to Student Forum positions will take ()n the continuing \ ... responsibility for promoting the student body of Union College.\ TAKE NOTICE, UNION STUDENTS! Exercise your right to VOTE: Respectfully, The 1988-89 Student Forum Elections Board ALL LETfERS TO THE EDITOR l'vl1JST BE TIPED, DOUBLE SPACED, At'-<l) SUB:NIJTTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETfERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEP1ED. exam. The professor has every right to deny the student's request; however, Parents' Weekend shoul<l be an extenuating circumstance. Parents' Weekend is an important time for many students and their families, as it enables students to be with their families who they may not h[lve seen in quite some time. and it enables parents to see what they are paying eighteeen thousand dollars a year for. Tile exact date of Parents' Weekend was set far before the school year even began, and the date was clearly made known to all. I understand that the pFofessor is restricted to only a ten week period in which he has to cover a tremendous amount of material, but rescheduling the test to later in the week, while moving on to new material in the meantime, would not be a very difficult alternative. David Sachar '92 - - n rr cl b sl 81 p tl I g b c c ~ ~

CONCORDIBNSIS May 11, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Financial Obstacles Run Rampant at Union Disrespect Breeds Hostility To the Editors: unessential c;:ourses at a cost of over $5,000. When I tuition bikes, yet Union · ·To the Editors: e-:xampD~ (although not all are guilty of this) busing one's own tray is a huge· s~arat. \Please\ aRid \Thank You,\ in turn, ·receive a \You're Welcome.'\ It is elementary politeness w.hich I'm sure all of us were ta11ght by our parents. Witho11t , abiding by these simple r:~les the student workers feel disrespected and may 1Jec<1me hostile. The studeruts who eat at West s()metilliles sense this hostility and i111 tar:n may breed more llisrespe:ct. It is a vicious cycle tilat em })e terminated~ students have quietly According to the R:ef!-istrar~ questioned the Registrar as t() regularly miltriculat~d Stlldents .. reasons for such a ru~e, th~Y' may take one course l!nd tle had no answer except, \It's out chargedfortwoortak(!tvro and policy.\ They atso cauld be charged for th:te~. 'Ihis provide no alternative to this Should be of great C()n(J~em to \policy.\ 1 would now like t() students who have lld'Vallced ask the administtation tD placement or college- ~rellits en declare its reasons for tbe:ir r~ords. In my c;a:se, 1 find implementing such a policy; I have enou:gh e:redits to otherwise, I Will ha~e t() g;raduate one tentt early; assume the worst To me sucl1 however. due to s:clleilu1ing a :policy is yet anpltier attempt conflicts my thesis Wlill :El()t be to wt;ing every lastcent out of completed until my last term· the student body. Lately we here: Thus I fiJ;ld m~s;elf in the bave witDessed protests by posuion . ()f taiCimg two studeats· of SUNY A ovcer experienced back-to-hack For those of you who have tuition increases of over 10%. been following the battles Every year seniors are told that stemming from tile cold war they now have 36 credits and between the students who eat at would they kindly leave' d1ieir West and the workers of West on-campus housing mict:·year? College Dining Hall (of which That i·s, those· st11dents · I am one) i say it is time to fortunate enough. to have on- . call a truce. I'm sure we could campus· housing. And not, we · . spend the rest of the term discover yet another financial writing insulting letters to each. obstacle thrown in our path. other and yet never get to the Why? heart of the issue. The heart of the issue is that Sincerely, each side se~ms to blame the Susanne M. Hoff '90 other, therefore nothing gets ' . - . . -- . . - ... ForeigJt,News Programs Praised .-.\-· \ ' To the Editors; I'd like·.·to ex.pre~; eKtreme thanks - to the M()dern Languages Depamnr:nt f()t 1he introduction of for~iga news programs to the camp11s community. Su~Cit; news programs allow me tlte opportunity to lellrl.l tnQre about foreign cultllt.es,. media elsewhere in the 'YrC:t:ld .. and provide me with tile· !tbility to improve my lang11age skills through listenLn.g. The programs are interesting and fuR to watch. Personally speaking, it's been really eye- opening to watch the Soviet news and to compare it to Amerien news. l'm a new fan of the Soviet anchorwom~n. and she's soon to replace Tom Brokaw as my favotite newscaster. However, she did wear an unusual pink silk outfit on the air l~t week that I think was a bit foo radical t() the public eye. (And I did11't even thillk silk would ever be found in Russia!) I \ltge my fellow classmates to stop by 0 the lab (located in the basement · of the Humanities Building) to see the news in German. French, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, and Russian. I promise it'll be a worthwhile experience. Once again, I wish tO thank the Modem Lailguages . Department and all those · invo.lved in initiating these i news programs. Sincerely, • Shelly S zymko Class of 1990 · §Jh(Q)Irto 9 0 Jl§ gireCdl~o vo The 1875 Initiative will be hosting, May 18, Nott Day to CCJEILJEI83~ATJE ffiiiDcdl IHI (Q) NCQ) ffi JEnn I¥ Irn.®ll®u J[\!(Q)ft(ta§ JMI ®miD ((J) illl $1 il IJ®Vll uiDilllLZCE;o 0 ~nrnm fr® 1r.Ihlce 0 IT~ This concerted effort will make the Nott's offical addition ·to the Administration's priority agenda for restoration Keep looking for details The countdown to Nott Day ~s in ONE WEEK. I .accomplished. Ill. the first letter the studeHt blames the workers; in the next letters tile workers blame dte swdents; in the third letter the student: blames the management. I am not. blamilJig anyone. The line must be dtaw11. Granted there is some hostility betwee11 the student workerts and the students who eat at West. I could cite many examples where students were rude to me ~d l do not doubt the fact I may have been rude to some students myself. On a, fin;al note I would like us alh0o reatize tltat altho\lgh it is easier to complain most of the :time, it is more successful tc get thiags changed if one call emp atlli:re with tile opposhthc:tu and then express.his .opini()R. I hope those who bave OOcOE'Ile in:volved in these battle~ can. find some solace in this letter and hopefully help to dissol-ve this disrespect and hostilLty that has already gone toofau. What we need is a mutual respect for each other. For Sincerely, Julie Comstock '90 JoJn··.u .. sfor_.~ .· .. ~~ ... ~ ,r::::~-;;;.··. SUNP~Y~=';i')~ _..._..d BRUNCH* .. ~~ Schenectady's unique gourmet shop and r·estaurant invites you to enjoy a scrumptious Sunday Brunch with us this weekend and next weekend. Do bring your family, your friertdsl Did you know that we 1 re O!)en for Breakfast Monday t tuough Saturdays, too? We\.re 'here at 7 a.m.- join us, won't you? V ·~A ., I~M ~.lC ~ Calll93-5592 ' ~~ \; SWEET 0. 1624 uPPER un1on st .)'~~f: ~Schenecta(Jy, NY ~~J ~TOOTli~ · ~ . \ The Union Sentinel Cordially invites members of the Union College Community to the First Annual Seniintellecture on The State of tile University. This year's spe:aker is: JOSEPH BOARD Robert Porter Patterson Profess<>r of Goverment 7:00 p.tn.. Reception 7:20 P.m. Adtlress (Semi- Formal. Dress Required) Wednesday, May 23 Hale House Lower Lounge •

CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Financial Obstacles Run Rampant at Union To the Editors: According to the Registrar, regularly matriculated students may take one course and be charged for two or take two and be charged for three. This should be of great concern to students who have advanced placement or college credits on their records. In my case, I find I have enough credits to graduate one term early; however, due to scheduling conflicts my thesis will not be completed until my last term here. Thus I find myself in the position of taking two unessential courses at a cost of over $5,000. When I questioned the Registrar as to reasons for such a rule, they had no answer except, \It's our policy.\ They also could provide :no alternative to this \policy.\ I would now l~ike to ask the administration to dedare its reasons for implementing such a policy; otherwise, I will have to assume the worst. To me such a policy is yet another attempt to wring every last cent out of the student body. Lately we have witnessed protests by students of SUNYA over tuition hikes, yet Union students have quietly experienced back-to-hack tuition increases of over 10%. Every year seniors are told that they now have 36 credits and would they kindly leave thieir on-campus housing mid-year? That is, those students fortunate enough to have on- campus housing. And not, we discover yet another financial obstacle thrown in our path. Why? Sincerely, Susanne M. Hoff '90 Foreign News Progratns Praised To the Editors: I'd like to express extreme thanks to the Modern Languages Department for the introduction of foreign news programs to the campus community. Such news programs allow me the opportunity to learn more about foreign cultures, media elsewhere in the world, and provide me with the ability to improve my language skills through listening. The programs are interesting and fu.a to watch. Personally speaking, it's been really eye- opening to watch the Soviet news and to compare it to Americn news. I'm a new fan of the Soviet anchorwoman, and she's soon to replace Tom Brokaw as my favorite newscaster. However, she did wear an unusual pink silk outfit on the air last week that I think was a bit too radical to the public eye. (And I didn't even think silk would ever be found in Russia!) I urge my feUow classmates to stop by the lab (located in the basement of the Humanities Building) to see the news in German, French, Spanish, Chinese, Japanese, and Russian. I promise it'll be a worthwhile experience. Once again, I wish to thank the Modem Languages Department and all those involved in initiating these news programs. Sincerely, Shelly Szymko Class of 1990 u u 1fllil e cdl (ffi y ~Jhle tat§Jk 0 0 Jl§ §Iblort; gre[Blto uu The 1875 Initiative will be hosting, May 18, Nott Day to CCJEILIElli3illAilJE tBJJIDafl IETI n I}}) Ihl2alll ~ fr 0 ~ll]]Jil lllln® IHI(Q)N(Q)ffi 0 n~ OO®mru@rrfi~il Ir®\Yll fr2IDilllLZ® o This concerted effort will make the N ott's offical addition to the Administration's priority agenda for restoration Keep looking for details The countdown to Nott Day ~s in ONE WEEK. Disrespect Breeds Hostility · To the Editors: For those of you who have been following the battles stemming from the cold war between the students who eat at West and the workers of West College Din~ng Hall (of which I am one) I say it is time to caU a truce. I'm sure we could spend the rest of the term writing insulting letters to each other and yet never get to the heart of the issue. The heart ·Of the issue is that each side seems to blame the other, therefore nothing gets accomplished. In the first letter the student blames the wor.kers; in the next letters the workers blame the students; in the third letter the student blames the management. I am not blami111g anyone. The line must be drawn. Granted there is some hostility between the student workerts and the students who eat at West. I could cite many examples where students were rude to me and I do not doubt the fact I may have been rude to some students myself. What we need is a mutual respect for each other. For example (althougll not aU are guilty of this) busing one's own tray is a llt1ge starat. \Please\ and \Thank You,\ in turn, receive a \You're W cleo me.\ It is elementary politeness which I'm sure all of us were taught by our parents. Without abiding by these simple rules the student workers feel disrespected and may become hostile. The students who eat at West sometimes sense this hostility and in turn may breed more disrespect. It is a vicious cycle that caB be terminated. On a final note I would like us all to realize tllat although it is easier to complain most of the time, it is more successful to get things changed if one can empathize with the opposition and then express his opinion. I hope d1ose who have become involved in these battles can find S()me solace in this letter and hopefully help to dissolve this disrespect and hostility that has already gone too far. Sincerely, Julie Comstock '90 join us for Schenectady's unique gourmet shop and restaurant invites you to enjoy a scrumptious Sunday Brunch with us this weekend and next weekend. Do bring your family, your friends! Did you know that we're open for Breakfast Monday through Saturdays, too? We're here at 7 a.m.- join us, won't you? The Union Sentinel Cordially invites members of the Union College Connnunity to the First Annual Sentinel lecture on The State of the University. This year's speaker is: JOSEPH BOARD Robert Porter Patterson Professor of Govennent 7:00p.m. Reception 7:20 P.m. Address (Semi- Fonnal Dress Required) Wednesday, May 23 Ha1e House Lower Lounge

. ' < Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT HOROSCOPES BY \A\ TAURUS: Your social and love life bubbles along pleasantly; this. week is promising. for meeting new attractions. A Capricorn may play a key role in romance. GEMINI: Be extra care.ful ·of your health this week. Make sure you are not trying to do too much. A week of rest and relaxation is definitely needed. CANCER: Watch your grades soar now that you are giving tOO%. The second half of this term promises to be fantastic socially as well as academically. LEO: It may be baseball season but don't always be striving to make a home run. Old fashioned romance will work much better for you. Expect good news in the mail. VIRGO: Make sure that your ego is not interferring with getting something yoe want. Virgos have to be careful not to let their self-destructive side take over. LIBRA: Perhaps fear of getting hurt is preventing you or your mate from completely commiting-. it's time .to talk. Don't destroy the best thing you've had since you've . been at Union. SCORPIO: It's time to get your plans together for the summer-do not leave yourself without any plans. Your sex life will be seeing an upswing. ' SAGITTARIUS: You may be feeling confus~d about' your life-be sure you are not creating problems. You: need to be pampered this week by either your boyfriend/girlfriend or your parents when they come up. CAPRICORN: Your .hormo11es have been on full speed ahead while your academics are on halt. It is time to rechannel your energy into something productive. AQUARIUS: If you are bored with your social life, try something new. Be spontaneous, go wild! And if romance is what you desire look at someone you previous thought of only platonically. PISCES: Get out of your rut! Ybu are full of uncalled for self-pity. Be cortfident in yourself and take on a positive outlook and watch them flock to you. ARIES: It seems everything in your life is terrific-You are having a great time and you've met someone really special. But do not loose track of your academics or it'll haunt you at finals time. ''Fast Ed''' In The Fast Lane By DINA SCHWEITZER Associate Arts Editor For those of you are unfamiliar with the \Fast Ed\ show here at Union, it can be described as a montage of new. progressive music that is seldom or never played on other radio shows. Recently, however, Ed Koval (alias \Fast Ed\) has ventured out .of college radio into the real world of radio air time on station WVK:z 96.7 FM. This opportunity was just a jump for Ed from a position he bad comfortably managed since he ~ began his radio show several .-.~ ..J• years ago; and now, in the fast 3 lane, it is .his voice that's d going to carry him forward. ili Ed began his move by ·~ 1 keeping his eyes and ears open ~ , for any opportunity he could . \Fast Ed!' Koval get his hands on; but Ed was not without experience. He began by working as a beard operator on FLY 92 AM •. and then last summer he worked an internship at WGLI 1290 AM in Babylon, Long Island. Through this internship he learned much about voice regulation and station management, and as a result he felt ready for a bigger move. Koval got his part time job at WVKZ because the station manager got word about his show here at Union and decided to tune in one Wednesday night to hear \Fast Ed\ spin. Soon,. Ed was sending in a demo tape of one of his shows and bingo he landed air time on \real\ radio. It's not that Union doesn't have great radio, for the e~perience ot being on air for four ye<trs at Union was something that \no broadcast school C{)Uld ever simulate;\ but WVKZ \isn't college radio anymore.\ ln fact WVI<Z is more of a Rock station, so even tho11gh there is some crossover from WRUC. Koval has to remember his audience wants R<lCk. \Fast Ed\ stated that he was ''shalcing like a leaf\ when he began his first \real\ show this past Satur.day night, from 12 p.m.-5 a.m.; but after the butterflies subsided, . \it all went over well.\ For the moment Koval won't have a permanent air time spot on WVKZ because he ana others are rotating one or two weekend shows until something stable opens up .. He still plans to continue his \Fast Ed\ ·show for the remaining Wednesdays from 8,.. 10 p.m. and he intends to work througb the summer at WVKZ . with the hope of landing a full time job next year. So, although in the immediate future, \Fast Ed\ might be living very modestly in the \fast lane,\ he will be living out his dreams. WRUCSHOW PICK OF THE WEEK ·r--- ....... --- ..... -----,. I Clip·N -Save . I I THE NEW 8.97 .. _ I I The Incas were an Indian tribe that gave us chocolate, 1 I tabac(o, an~ the ~eat~st customers th~s side of Venus. Could you 1magme If they had then paws on this I I ~ou?tclo~? Tie-d~ing outfits while listening to. the 1 THE INTELLECTUAL ROMPER ROOM with lath Nyhus A. I.A. '' Sp.ike'' TUESDAY, 6-8 PM SHE'S SEXY, SHE'S CHA,RISMATIC, AND SHE KNOWS WHAT YOU WANT. I Indmgo Girls? Gopmg on war-hunts to 10,000 Mamacs? Jeepers, Thank You. I I Artist 'fitle TaOOJ 1 1 1. The Cure Disintegration I 1 2. Indingo Girls Indingo Girls I . . 1 3.1(),000Maniacs }2\. . . Trouble Me\ 1 1 4. JnREHOSE FROMOHIO 15. Miracle Legion I Me & Mr. Ray 16. Simple Minds Elektra I I Epic I I Elektra I I SST I I Rough Trade I I I Street Fighting Years A&MI 17. C()ncrete Blonde I I Free I.R.S. I Is. Godfathers I I . More Songs About Love & Hate 1 I . . . .. Epic 8.97 Love & Rockets I 1 Love & Rockets · . . . . I I Beggar's Banquet I 1 Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week -1 .LuWishing Well'i. Bob Mould . J ____ . ______ ....,....,. __ .

• I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I .I I I I I I -I t I I -I J CONCORDIENSIS May 11, .1989 ART·s & ENTERTAINMENT .. .. , Picture Perfect Photo Exhibit By Bill Case By KATIE BOYD Arts Editor This yea:r marks the 150th a.nni ve:rsa.ry of photography. A rece.nt Va11ity Fnir article note·d that much of today's portrait ph~tography is d(,woted t<l '' gym-m:()lded bodies... so ' many pr:ett~., pretty peopl'e. Phe>tograpbs are turning into perfume.\ While polished, muscle rip;pling bodies are. all fine and go()d {and Often lust inspiring} tltey alone do not an art make. Yanity Fair writer Mark Stevens notes \stylish:ne~s today often seems suffocating,_. those who prefer a strict· eye and a cool intell:ig.ence.., whe welcome the stap of truth., will be getting l:Joted.\ Union student Bill Case's :photo exhibit is not boring. Which is n~t to say that it is not pollshffi. And his honesty-- apparent iii the unaffected, natural pr~sentation of his subjects-- 1~ more a gentle . shove than a slap. '· Bill's w.otk is the product of a winter-term independent:study concentrati11g on protraits. Bill worked ·primarily with a 2 1/4\ camera. 'fhis large camera is - held at the waist. Bill remarked that· bein,:g abte U>' have eye contact \\ith .his subj:ects allowed him to ·establish a rapport with his subjects. This rapport is evident in the subjects' poses. Also responsible for the spontaneity of Bill's photos was the fact that while the subjects knew he was taking the :pictures they did not know when the shutter snapped. Not Olle of the photos bung in this exhibit is distracted by stilted poses. Bill Case is also to be commended for his telling use of natural sun:oundings. His portraits. of Barbadians incorporate the land oi Barbados, and the kids. on his block in Sch.enectady are backed by their street in his photos, This feature of Bill's work is no accident, as he stated one of his objectives was to use \them (the land and the people) ,to describe each other.\ Adding to Bill's refreshing portraits is his use. of black and white film to its fu11est potential. .:Sill's photos scream with detail and contrasts. Bottomless black and searing white, along with all the shades of gray,, are present in each photograph. For example, in the photo accompanying this article, the bag in the little girl's hand seems even whiter than the border which surrounds the photo. Michael Bach, the visiting professor of photography, introduced Bill to finished printing and thus allowed for the polished quality of Bill's portraits. It is unfortunate that the narrow hallway where much of Bill's work is hung doesn't Photos By William Case allow one a distanced perspective. However, the finished printing. professional matting and framing (so rare for student art work), brilliant detail and fascinating subjects make close proximity to Bill's .Photos a joy. One cannot help PARENTS WEEKEND ART EXPLOSION Page 15 but remark how like the magazine Life Bill's ,...photos are. Bill Case's exhibit is on the second floor of the Art's Department-- which will be open this Parents' Weekend. PERFORMANCE (THEATRE, DANCE, MUSIC) ·1 ART & PRESENTATIONS Friday, May 12 7pm Piano & Dance Program Performing Arts Studio 8 pm Montebanks Theatre Production \ ''It Was A Dark And Stormy Nighf' : Nott Memorial Saturday, May 13 1-3 pm Gospel Ensemble Performance: Old Chapel· 1:30-3 pm WRUC Ice Cream Social: Friday, May 12 7, 9,11 pm Film- ''Mississippi Burning'' : College Center Chester Arthur Cast \Snipes\ of It Was a Dark & Stormy Night ,. 2pm 3-4 pro Concert Band : Memorial Chapel Saturday, May 13 Dance Club presents : 10 am:- 4 pm Performing .Arts Studio. · Student Exhibit : 3:80-4:30 piil Arts Building French Instruction for the Video Generation : Hu.019 7-~ pm BLAS - Dance Group : 2:00 pro Idol Reading Jackson Gardens ' Old Chapel Montebanks Theatre Production ., ''It Was A Dark And Stormy NighfJ' : ~ott ~emorial Union College Choir & Orchestra : Memorial Chapel . 10 pm Student Cabaret Performance Old Chapel Sunday~ May 14 N <l ()n-1 pro Union C9llege Jazz Ensemble Performance : · . Memorial Chapel Gospel Ensemble . -~ •

'' Page 16 CONCORDlENSlS Mtly 11, 1989 ART'S & ENTERTAINMENT Japanese Bru.sh Art Exhibit From now until ·May 17 interested students can enjoy Kimberly Quirk's Senior Arts 'Thesis of Japanese Brush Art .. 'The works of ar~ are being displayed in tile Arts Building and are deserving of campus- wide attention for not only for her talent, but also for its unique cultural and artistic exploration. Kimberly spent last year studying in Japan and it was there that she learned the various techniques of brush art. It is a genre which requires rice paper and paints similar to watercolors. Some fundamental forms must be teamed, such as orchids, chrysanthemums, and bam'boo; however, the artist may incorporate his/her own creative perspective. Her workS of art are most colorful and her sense of th~ power· and beauty: .of simplicity can be enjoyed even by those whose interests do noyusu~ly include art. A review of Kim's work will be included· in next ·week's edition. HEAR T.HE 1::DOL ROAR!! At the Movies with R & A FIE'L.D OF DR·:EAMiS<****) By RACHEL LEVINE and AMANDA ARONOFF The latest trend in the movies seems be plots involving baseball. Field of .Dream.s, starring Kevin Costner and James Earl Jones, utilizes baseball solely as a vehicle by which the audience comes to understand the aspirations and dreams of its characters. This inspirational movie concentrates. on . the characters' ability to· release . themselves from the norms of · . society and to put faith in the unbelievable in order to achieve those drams. The audience, too., must allow themselves to put aside preconceived notions of traditional plo~s in order to understand and appreciate the deeper meaning of this move. Fiel.d or Dreams is centered around a fanner., played by Kem·Cosmer, wh() lleats a voice in his cornfield which tells him fo build a baseball diamond: hi his back yat\l :He is moved by a force that he doos not uaderstand, nor !loos the audience. The characters have no foresight and can~ot conceive of the consequenCes or outcome of their actio-11.s.. A.. s a < ' ··- result; the audience cannot sp.~ulate on the pr<>gession of the plot. This rnovieis based 011 What seems to be a ridiculo11s sw.face plot. However, it is a fantasy in whkh you, the audie11oo .• can coille to believe lhe UIItealistic. We both feel this movie is · · worth seeing, as it is to11ching; humorous, and boasts a ~ast which lends to its ·quality. Out of a five-stat rating srs~m~ we both agree that Field of Dreams gets four stan •. MOUNTEBANKS PRESENTS: IT WAS A DARK AND STORMY NIGHT An evening of one act plays May tO, 11 , 1.2, 13 Nott Memorial Theatre All Shows 8:00 pm Tickets on Sale Now. Pet Sematery The Rescuers She's Out of Control Listen ToMe Field of Dreams Pet . .Sematery ·say Anything Saturday, May 13 in Jackson Gardens· Come for a Poetry Reading Starting at 2:00 PM Criminal Law Major League The Dream Team (Refreshments Available) monday, may 15th sacred spirit music --------- erica kundidzora azim of zimbabwe mbita at 5:00 prn room 215 in the arts department Call TheatersforShowTimes. Derek Pearsall, distinguished Profes~or of Chaucer and Medieval literature at Harvard University, wiH be giving a lecture open to the. general pub lie on Friday; May 19, at 4:.30 p.m .. in HumanUies 115. The title of his talk Is: \The Book of the Tal&s -of Canterllury\. Professor Pearsall is autnor of numerous articles and books, most recently The Canterbury Tale·s, and has lectured widely in America, Europe, and England, where l:le held a chair of Medieval literature at Vork University for many years. .. ·.,,

Page 17 ~ CONCORDIENSIS May 11, 1989 Saxton, Porter, . Spe.ir Scholarships • Submit your Term Abroad . pictures to the •· · Yea.rbook. Drop them off . .. in cc 408.· CAMPUS CHAMPIONSHIP DATES: MONDAY, MAY 15, 1989 LOCATIO·N-: College Center AudHorium $100 First Place Preize $50 Second Place Prize .SIGN:-UP: For more information and to register, See Jerri Clark, . . CC 407 or call Am'in Khan, 377-4169 • Put your mind to it! \'· / All Union students who are accepted at'ld definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to Prof. Board in the Pol. Scio Dept. byJuly 1, 1989. A Plateful of Questions Discussion Series Presents This Week's Question: \Is There SoiDe One Behind Your I:m.age?\ Tuesday, May 2 12:00 - 12:45 pm Please bring your lunch! 4th Floor Lounge of the College Center All Are Welcome! Economics Club . The Economics Club is sponsoring ·Mr. Brian Mary Alumni of Union Economist at the Commodities Future Trading . Commission Mr. Mary Has a PhD in Economics and a JD . . , He will talk about his research paper on Model of Judicial Influence on - Congressional Policy Maki.ng Wednesday., May 17 3:30 in SS1 03

> I CLUB NEWS ---------------- •' CAMPUS-PROTESTANT· MINISTRY ::x--~-IIta~ieru1 ____ or Questions discussion series meets on Tuesdays from noon- 12:45 in the 4th floor lounge of the CC. Please bring your lunch. -Bible Study continues on Thursdays in CC205 from 11:30-1:00. Please bring lunch. N --E-W=M~A~N~C=L~U=B~N~·~EW~S~. M\ei-tontapes-\FridaY\.-M:a\Y 12 at Noon. All are welcome to bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404B. Monday Night Supper-·· May 15th at 5 P.M. in CC203, either use your meal plan or bring your own and join Ann Fleming, Admissions for conversation and an informal presentation on \College is Easier the Second Time Around.\ All are welcome. Concern for the Unborn Child-Come to e:xpress your views and interact with David Tolge (Alumni '85) a Pro Life Speaker from ALPHA Center for Women (a local crisis pregnancy center). Monday, May 15th CC409 from 7-8 P.M. Newman Picnic-Monday, May 22nd from S-7 P.M. at Dutch Hollow Patio, or in case of rain Cabaret Pit for Union students, faculty, staff and their families. Please RSVP by Friday, May 19th to Sr. Joan's office (370-6087). Leave name and number attending. Eucharistic Ministers-A workshop for those interested in becoming Eucharistic Ministers will be given by Sr. Joan, Thursday, May 25th in the Rectory from 7-9 P.M. Union students may contact Sr. Joan to register. On Sunday, May 28th at all the Masses for the Feast of Corpus Christi all old and new Eucharistic Ministers will be commissioned for '89-'90. Catholic Video Series- Tuesdays from 4:30-5:00 P.M. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Homiston 372-9231. Folk Group-All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 P.M. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 P.M. in the church to rehearse. CLASSIFlEDS suiiNfEi-]on_s ______ _ Spend your summer helping protect NY environmental future. The environmental planning is now filling summer positions. Earn $200 - $500 a week while working to CAMPUS NEWS pass vital environmental legislation. Paid training, benefits. work hours 2-10 P.M. Call462-5526. Housesitter available May- Enis; Thanks for the ride and the great conversation. If you ever need a ''hot\ co-pilot, jJ,JSt let me know. Dave, . Is your face still flUshed? How did tllilt bappen? - Love Becky I PURV-¥an, . - ' ' I'm glad you didrft rnak~ a · wish. That would've been a nautical faux Pas; c August. Professional for Love, Lina. Woody: information call 346-2034. .,------~--::---:-- , . Thanks for dinned Which CT Biker Woman ., Ask for Joan. It was. a bizarre weekend. course did JOU like ,better, the Wanted female ro'()mmate one wjth too much talking Ol' Nice job on the tower rack. · ' · Y out MUneGuy to share 3-bedroom t()wnhouse. It's Coming ... the on~ with no talking? Available June, in Waltham, DeltaOamma's MA. Off Interstate 12&. Please Fraternity/Sorority W1N, Pete, Jlilie,)ill: ~H t.617) 899 33·go LOSE, or DRAW-Monday, Le ' ak B · an· d c.w..: - . . .. ts m e · • ruggers Kate, . -This tinte it was better than Ronald McDonald, but still no action. Third time's a chann. Looking for a fraternity, May 15th, 8 P.M. SS016 - es~ially the conversation a sorority or student or~anization Where a picture is worth a Sunday.ttadition!! . . C,A,C. that would like to malre $500- thousand words! .$1 admission. Love:U.ecky $1,000 for a one Neek On- campus marketing project. Must be arganiz;ed and hardworking. Call Jill or Corineat (800) 592-1121. Sandy, Scary, Banger and Mountain: Does the woman in red get ·the Harsh award for the record of consecutive horniness and harsh activity er what? I think so, but then again, you ain't seen nothin~ yet! Native Woman Hip; Groovey times are ahead for you if yot~ aeed a pad to store your mind, body, and soul for the fall alld winter terms. We've got til('; place for you!! Reasonable tent, Ifi coul.dirthtaldak, I'Ald~ay •. in convenie11t location!! Call Sue : Happy B · Y ·Ison ... at 382-5723. Looking to sell a 2 yr. old Hi, Mom & Dad- computer. OriginaU:r a $2~000 I Love You Beth value - will sell for .$400!! For more information call Marsela Doyle at 355•6334- between 1:30-4:30 P.M. Duplex VanVranken Ave. near campus. 3 BR up, 3 bedroom down, nice. Unfurnished, year lease, security. Available May '89. 456-3548. Apartment in B()ston! -·Sublet June, July, August ~Fmnished Call Suzanne (617)783-1648 Looking .to s11blet an apartment. 2-3 person, located on University. End of June to end of August. Can Gretchen or Missa at 386-44l7. Affordable One or Two Person Town:bouse for summer sublet. •100 yds. from .campus •fully furnished •dish washer and many appliances included~ •private parking lot and laundry facilities •very safe area, qui~t and clean. If interested please call Brian and Marty at 374-2939. Looking to s11blet 3-4 person apartment for the summer. Great location, near campus. If interested please calL i Lisa, Kristen, or Ann at 3 74- 8984. PERSONALS ·. r>ear-Fls1liWisliY:------~-- count 'em- 6! w~ were out of ·control. Love your tie-dye pal. Jill, Shall we do lunch some time? Get back to me. Mel Ellie- Don 't worry - Fry will be done soon, or has be a1ready finished? You're psyched! Missy Will, Ronald baby, Time's running out you scamming gland. What a clown! KDS Curt, Please do not touch the quilts! · Thank you. The Quilt Patrol Rain man, Lunch at the Deli? Don't do it! Love, Wilson We Love Our Pledges- Karen W ..• Karen F., and Rachel. -Gamma Phi Sisters Big Sis Lori, .· . . I just wanted to say Hi! I mtsS you! Little Sis Stillman Kerry Blinder, I want you most desperately. Don't play games with me. John Matkovich RM- Quote: \You've my castle and my cabin and my instant pleasure dome - I need you in my house 'cause you're my home\ - endquote. I love you .. -RM Melissa- You don't believe us? Okay, we'll show you!! S, E, AJ., M & K: I am aspmt . 4yearsold The end of my story Never wastold. Dave, Dirty Dancingj you stud! Ronnie: One month 2 go! Fat chance! LZ, Burgstein The hat-trick club will be closing it's membership drive · in 31 days! Time is running . out! Start making some phone calls - this time we won't hang up!! -KC ..-----~------..-- -. Reza & Steve - Thanks for a great weekend. It was the luck of the die that allowed you to win. Let's do it again. Love Kristen & Lauri Jill· Keg room?? Leave the music alone It ' Love, Becky - Everyone Neects a Sophomere to Love!! Or is it a Senior? Mill .. ~ We~re not that Shaky! . Jill and Kill Jane aiid Wendy: I missed you tbis weekend! We11 bave to make up for it! Love, Becky -·~------~~~~--~ For all tllose who partied potluck at 1021 University, pick up your pots please .. Sigllla Cbi, TharlkS for the great party and the goldfish! . . T The Sisters of Sigma Delta 1 au. Congratlllatiqns Kar:en . . Gamma Phi Beta Karen, 373 days of freedom, enjoy it! · . Love, Lynda · To Kristen & Julie, HOME SLICE - Just say \no\ Ex-HSBA; (Let's keep it that way) .. ------~~~-----· Karen, It is .said that \Diamonds are a girl''s best friend; 11 So don't forget aoout us. Lynda& Sue. Sheila~ Protect your man, the goosers are on the loose. C,A,C. Car:los, From Pattycake to Bump and Grind ... GAY To the Lacrosse Seniors: C()urtney, Danielle, Nicole, Stacey, and Fiona- Thank you · and good luck. We'll miss you. From the Lacrosse Team Stop by sometime and I'll introduce you to my fi'iend \.Hairy legs\ Alix, ss I wonder why al:l those Albany families had. to report to the Awards Area!? ss DAP- Please don;t stress out yet. We still have to do something after ·thesis. Good Luck! · EL Rika- How was it that you got .those electric lips? And from. whom? Edlin -77 Rita- 50 Leslie- 39 Josh- 23 Steffi -19 ss Meg~ - . How are those throbbing lips?? ss P.S. What do we say to those Brownies ? SEE Y A! Lea- Thanks for a great time at the formal. EL Pebbles, You should have put lotion on . so that you would not have gotten your back burned in the Vennont Woods. Love, Bam-Bam I'm in love with blrle eyes at 305 Briart- Do you like silver hoop earrings? I do - Beck Pate .,., Iaco ... , & Pete, _ Welcome to the Bucket Club. Love, Deutsch It's Coming .•.. Delta Gamma··Sponsors Fraternity /Sorority WIN, LOSE o,r DRAW MONDAY, MAY 15 at 8:00 in .SS016 $1.00 admi~ion at the door. Come Cheer For Or Laugh At Your Favorite Team.

s y ;s ;e 1? ss s?? ss ;e te EL on the Bam - it Beck - ub. utsch . \ _ .. C.ON.CORDIENSJS Mfl~ 11., 1989 •• . • 't'··. . - ;,-'\' .· ~. . PERSONAls..~- ... Denny- Thanks Jor listening. · Love, Jill Moles, !{ill & Little Lina, · · You guys are the ultimate defense committee. A little scary too! Thanks a lot. Love Jill Bxand & Beck, To 'I.he Women TraGksters- . ' Awasome job against States ~c. Meatball Guys- TJmnks for listening lO me · • babble! No I didn't win , scrabble. You guys ate great! Love Wendy . Jane- Thank you for ~ excellent weekend! From Baa\'Baa to colors, etC. Thanks! . CAMPUS NEWS ....... · Karen, Tracee & Jen, Thanks a lot, couldn't have · made it home w/out you. Maybe we'll do it again sometime - Like next time you want' a day from hell. · Cathy, Hallie, and Ken: Brandywine ... Mike the Chopper Man .. ;and just hanging out. HAL- . It's Poltergeist, It's The Heidi Hookup, Holly Ho Over, . Shining, It's Nightmare On Sally Sleep on Someane Else's Elm Street - It's like a movie! · Floor, Freida Fish Killer~ :. RETCH Are seniors supposed to have _: this much fun?? Thanks for the : .· laughs! Keep Smiling!l . ' HNA ... Your pattner in hat tricks. .· I never thought I'd want to drive a Chevy. We need to find \FLASHGORDON\ .. See ya Saturday! Sig- Cbllgratulations on becoming an O.A.! And keep that grin on your face- it keeps people wo11dering - well, some of them anyway!' K:lath I think the Breakfast I..oveWendy · · It's your FIRST personal- ~~----~--~~-- · · I'm glad we got to know eaclt a car for you ... 'HEO, Sausage- -AAA · I want to ride a bike with shorts at this specific time of Convo, .. scared aw~y my little boyfriend!! Love, Jill BBO- Please dorrl ever forget the promise we made at OX. Sandy- Thanks for the company. You're the best PLO Becky, Glad you're in better spirits. Congrats on O.A.! No motron ·is not contagious! Bye-Bye. Love Wendy ·· LoLove- . i Happy 1 year annive~! r ·, love you berry much! •I LOve, snookums · ., Rio •: HBO- I saw him ... He smiled ... He remembered .•. and he left Twerp, Killer and Twerp, Exploring the dark side .•. Can it get more exciting than that?? . LoveLina PLO BLOOM ;COUNTY YW 5'1lJ?f'etJ 8/ft:fllf/IIV& ... J}(IT W& &!IVG w M(}(/{!f- ro- MfJtJ11f/ otber before June 11. Next time you want to .spend tbe night in tbe gardens - call me. When's the next full moon? Margaret, Sunday was awesome but donrt you hate this feeJing ... just hanging. Debemos Ham~ o :llo debemos Hamar eso es 1a prequnta. ·Nancy Great job with the fonnal, Missy. We had a blas~. Love, The sisters of Delta Gamma. Hi Barney! Welcome to Union! the term. Hi Mom! \HBO FOR PLO\ Hi Kristen! Hi Beth! Hi Mom! Hi Dad! Hi John! Eileen- Thanks a million for being my · eyes. ears. co-pilot aand dialing 1 fingers. IT it weren't for you. I'd · still be lost! So when are you coming to visit? Kath WANTED: In search of good quality felt! Squirrel Pelt Felt! Send infor to Rennin W. Mifiner Agent Brian, Can you spare a napkin and some crakers? Goose by Berke Breathed !31KfNf8 ... 811!36:3 ... FrJU.- etJPY MA56!16e6 ... : } JO& tt11KK W/111 fl ___./ /JilT. .. \'-

1; ' ,, ,, . . Page 20 CONCORDIBNSlS May 11, 19$1 CAMPUS NEW.S Room Lottery May 15 to May 30 The room lottery will be conducted from May 15 to May 30. The computer will randomly assign numbers to students by class year. That is tG· say,, the computer randomly assigns numbers to members of the classes of 90, 91, 92. The computer than translates the random number to a number that is understandable - 1 through 525 - roughly the size of each class. This will be done for each class with the exception of the incoming new students. Representatives of the Office of Residence Life will distribute a lottery card bearing the student's name, ID number, and lottery number to eligible students. The student MUST present his/her ID and pick up his/her lottery card IN PERSON. Only students presenting ID's will receive a lottery card. If a student has a class and is unable to ,pick up his/her lottery card that day, he/she may do so at the appropriate Area Coordinator's Office the next day., A $10.00 late fee will apply to all others - no exceptions. The selection of available campus housing is divided into three categories: Smith House/singles/doubles. triples and suites. There will be a meeting to explain the selection process for Smith House on May 3. A member from the Office of Residence Life will answer all questions about the Smith House lottery at this meeting. The remainder of the campus housing will be selected according to class year and by the lottery number assigned to each student Singles Lottery: The senior with the lowest lottery number (#1) will have the first choice of available singles. The senior with the next lowest lottery number (#2) will have the second choice. If .some sin.gles have not been selected and there are no more seniors present, the junior present with the lowest number will have the first choice of the remaining singles. This process will continue until all si11,gles have been selected or no eligible student is present to select a single. Double and Suite Lottery: The lottery for doubles, triples, and suites will conclude the process. The sophomore lottery will be held first. followed by the junior lottery. and finally the senior lottery. The class member present with the lowest lottery number will have to pick first. The class member with the 11ext lowest lottery number, and present,. will follow. When a suite. triple or double is selected, all roommates MUST BE present and all MUST SIGN CONTRACTS. There must be four students (not three or two or one) to choose a suite. When selecting a triple there must be three (not two or one) roommates. The room or suite will be placed back into the lottery if any of the rommates are not present to sign the contract when the room or suite is selected. All occupants of a room or suite who are found to have cheated will lose any right to the room or suite. Additionally, the person{s) who cheated will be fined $100. Point of interest class standing is determined by the number of credits received at the end of winter tenn - no exceptions. ROOM LOTIERY J:im!< 6:30-7:00 pm 7:()()-7:30 pm 7:30-8:00 pm S:Q0-8:30 pm 8:30-9:00 pm 9:00-9:30 pm 9:30-10:00 pm 10:00 until the last person present is called Junior !Attecy 1-100 101-200 201-300 301 on up until the last person present is called TilE SENIOR LOTI'ERY Sor»homore Lottery 1-50 51-100 IOL-150 151-200 201-250 251-300 301-350 351 o:n up until the last person present is called The senior lottery does not have lottery numbers assigned to a spetific time period. The senior lottery will begin at 6:30pm Achilles rink, Thursday May 25. with the senior present who has the lowest lottery number (#1 ). The senior with the next:lowest lottery number (#2) and presellt will then be called. This process will continue until the last senior present is called. It is your advantage to be on time as the senior lottery bas been historically completed within one hour. Point of interest: The schedule is strictly adhered to and lottery numbers are NQI called early. However,.it's best to show up a few minutes early if your lottery number is one of the first few to be called. A· NEW CAMP U.NlON . ·· ·a9 EVENTS: Bands performing on West Beach from 12-6 p.m. on Saturd,ay. Continental breo'kfast begins at West at 11 :30 on Saturday and runs into barbeque on West Beach .. . .. Comedian . Rich hall perform:ing in Memorial Chapel Saturday night at 8:00. Look for t-shirts going on sale, soon and watch' for wristbands in your mailbox - your ticket to Camp Unionl · · REMEMBER - No glass bott.les, only cans and cups. WHAT Co-op interest meeting Distribution of lottery numbers Co-op. Lottery Singles Lottery Sophomore lottery doubles & suites Junior lottery doubles & suites Senior Lottery doubles & suites DA1E May3 May 16 May18 Mayl8 May22 Mey24 May25 REMEMBER ............. . ROQM TIME 4:00pm 1:00- 4:00pm 1:00- 4:00pm 1:00- 4:00pm 6:00pm 6:30pm 6:30pm 6:30 prn 6:30pm LOTTERY PLACE WHAT TO BRING Fox Lounge . All members ofyour co-op Seniors- MUSTHAV:EYOUR Residence I.D. Life Office Sophomores- MUST HAVEYOUR Davidson Lounge I. D. Juniors- MUST HAVE YOUR Fox. Lounge I.D. Achilles Rink ID, Lottery Cud All members of co-op Achilles Rink ID; Lottery card Achilles Rink ID, Lottery card All roommates Achilles Rink ro. Lottery card All roommates --Achilles Rink ID, Lottery cud All roommates -You must have your ID and lottery card wlien choosing a room. -The class member present with the lowest 11tlmber will have first pick. -The class member with the next lowest l>Ottery number, and present, will follow. -All roommates MUST BE PRESENT AND SIGN CONTRACTS when the room or suite is chose11.. -Only fout people may claim a suite. -Only three people may claim a triple. -All occupants of :a room or suite who are fot1nd to have cheated will lose an.y rights to the room or S'Uite. Additionally, theJlei's()n(s) who cheated will be fined $100.

11, 1989 Page 21 <!tnucdt~.fensis SPORTS Campus Bikers· lake · ·J o The Road Men's Rugby FireS Up ByLES MCFLY Cycling Qub Presents Tour of llllion · · . . . .· keep the club alive. Look what Halftime speeches can often By R. REED tJme: make. four ,laps. Bo~h Donald Trump has done witll be the tuming point of a close WHIDDEN ~ens and Wom~n s Mountam the Tourde Trump. There are game. Kn11te Rockne has been Edito.r-in -Chief Btke category. will go two laps a lot of cyclists on the campus immortalized for his \Win One around the campus. and there seems ot be a lot of For The GLpper\ speech which Now joining the ranks of such great races as the Tour de France and the Tour de Trump is the soon to be world famous Tour pe Union. On day 21 of this :month, cyclists will wind their way around the campus on a two mile. loop. there are six different categories in this, the first race through old Union's ~ounds. For a ~hree­ doUar· entry fee, one may enter one or more of the following levels: Men's or Women's Racers, Sport or Recretional, or Mountain Bike. Men's Racing will complete the loop five times and Men's Sport four times, Women's Racing and Recreational Will, at this Helmets are required for bikers planning on competing in this r,ace scheduled :(rom 1:00 to 3:00 tbat Sunday afternoon. Winners of the race will receive such prizes as bike racks, packs, gloves, or water botllles. The purpose of the reinstitution of this race is to regenerate inter.est in the Cycling Club here at the college. lt is to make people more aware that there is a club for this spen which. seems to be fast becoming quite popular thesedays. · · \I would hope the student . body bas enough interest to , / t1\1.\1lo , interest,\ commented Jamie propelled Notre Dame to Clark, president of th~ club. . victory many years ago .. This The club was once quite Saturday at Trinity College in active and in fact, the last Tour . Connecticut, Union rugby de Union was made in 1974. coach, Skip Aycox, also earned The record for the race from his place in the coaches hall of then stands at 49:53. fame by motivating Union's While the Tour de Union best fifteen to overcome a 0-10 won't last ten days, and the halftime deficit and emerge 21- cyclists won't end up· in 10 victors at game's end. Atlantic City, and :Mr. Trump Union 1legan the gatr~e with. won't be here to fire the . a listless,. lethargic display of starting pistol, this race can be nonchalance which cost them a great for this small . · Trinity try in the· first two community. A table will be set minutes of the game. It seemed up ,in the ..College Center as if the Ruggers were in for tomo:rr()w and Wednesday, yet anotller day where their Thursday. and Friday of next mouths r;an rampant before the week where one r;nay pick up game but, except for some entry forms and pay the entry whining. were Silent at drink- fee. Please direct any further up. Captains Chris Sheridan questions. about the race or the and John Gobron could do .. ?]· . It··\ ' ' club t<> Jamie Clark at 386- nothing t() get the team going. . . 4191 or the vice president of Union ended the half with tile C the. club, Erica Pankow at 386- score down ten, but their heads ·~·•r1 ---- TOUR DE :UNION 4016. were even lower. However. Union had a secret weapon. He stomped on to tb.e muddy fie~d at halftime, his eyes ablaze with desire and deliver~ what will sure'y go down iii tlie ·annals of Rugl>y' as the \Win One For Tile · Skipper•• speech. The team Trinity saw open the seco11d balf was not tb.e same team they had been playing Just minutes earlier. Trinity ]Jllt up a battle for a few minl!tes, but it wasn't long before the carnage and destructi()n which Union was inflictin.g upon them finally broke them. Union' forwards were swartning and seemed to envelop· Trinity every time they t()u<;hed the balL The backs ran with reckless abandon, running over, around and through Trinity's ill-fated line. • Unio11's first score came early ia the second half. Fullback \lola hair-flip\ Gordo11 lGcked an \up :and under\ wnich was covered well by the Union pack. Serum captain \do I get a comb now\ Sherida:n was mascaradipg as an outside center and juniorrookie Matt \do I get a jacket now\ Parisi was filling in at wing. The tw() proved to be up to their respective tasks when Sheridan dished to Parisi for his first A-side try and Union Rugby's first points of tile day. However, Union was still down 6-10. But, the Union pack began to dominate as Brian \tee bee bee\' Spring, Ro:ger \what me worry\ Weber, and Matt \Springsteen\ Taylor began to inOict some serious damage to Trinity's ball camers. Union lessened Trinity's lead to one with a penalty kick for points midway thro11gh the second half making the score 9- 10. The big break for Union came when Sheridan picked off a pass in the Trinity line, and trotted effortlessly across the try line to ut Union ahead to stay. Union did not sit om their five point lead thou.gb as they continued the pressure both offensively and defensively. John \Weaponhead\ B.aker also had his chance for glory when he broke loose around midfield with nothing ahead ef him but green pastures and adoring fans. Unfortunately for Baker, one of his square wheels got a flat tire and he was overc()tTJe by the Trinity ruggers, but !lOt before he got off a textbook pass to his. pursuing Union teammates. As the final secon.ds ticked away and bloody Trinity ruggers were layin.g ·prostrate all over the pitch, Union flexed .their muscles one In()re time . and scored with 110 time remaining on the c:lock. This score was the epitomt\; of hustle as Dan \I flip for Rugby\ Gilbert simply ()Utran everyone, and put the ball down in the try z()ne. for Union's 19th point. Sheridan hit the conversion to put Union at an even 21 .(»ints. Union's Killer B's once again proved that they deserve their name as they too tJ'()UIICed over Trinity 71-0 in one ()f the biggest mud bowl blowouts ever. The whole team shone, and singling out individual players would be a crime against rugby. · So the rugby Mo11tlls can once again be unleased for at least a week until Uaion meets local rival Windover Men's Club on Saturday at 1:00. This year's meeting Sh()uld once again prove to be .a ~eat game so come out on Sat11rday with your parents and cheer on your favorite rugger! I ' SPORTS WEEK We've wo11 Wimbledon, US Open, SATURDAY, May 13 Men's Track @ · State Meet, SUNY Binghalllton ; Away •· Women's ·Track @ Worchester Plo~ Tech Away 1:00Home •. Men'sRugby vs. Windhover -:·'. French Open ... but now the event on the tour is: \Union's Mixed Doubles Tournament on Saturday May 20th.\ , .. ...

,' I '' I 'i I Page 22 CONCORDlE'NSIS May 11, 1989 . . - . Men's Track Battles At Conference .Meet Ct1mpoli Racewalks Into First Ey the Track Team Ten of Union's finest track and field athletes traveled last weekend to Kings Point, NY and Trenton, NJ for the Collegiate Track Conference Meet. This was the Running Dutchmen's op,portunity to compete against the best Division I and Division II schools from tile Northeast. The conference includes such powerhouses as Seton Hall Univesity, J()na College, Southern Connecticut College. and SUNY Alban~. Although a final score was not available after nineteen events, at press time, Union had sole possession of six:th place in a field of over 25 teams. The bulk of Union's scoring was a result of the men's track and field athlete of the week, Jim \Racewaller\ Campoli. Friday night, defeating high winds and torrential rains at the fitting setting ,C)f the United States Mercltant Marine Academy. Jim walked away with the .ftrst place medal. This successful bid at defending his indoor track title pushed the team to strive for high. marks on Saturday as well. Jeffrey Simkins was the other big scorer for the Dutchmen. Running his seasonal best in the 400m hurdle with a 55.5, he clinched At press time • • • Union had sole possession of sixth place in a field .of over twenty-five teams. sixth place. He was able to place strongly, de~pite a poor seeding. This was a positive way to start the day for Union. Mike Sirowich and Cliff Genge were the field representatives for the Dutchmen. Sirowich took eighth in the discus throw with 36.36, while Genge captured eighth in the hammer, with a throw of 25.36. Later, Genge came back in the shot put with an 11.88 toss. Fine running performances were tallied by lSOOm nmners. Sascha Lewis and Doug Martocci, with times of 4:20.4 and 4:34.7, respectively. This time was a seasonal best. for Martocci. Bob Lindyberg; and Hans Schwarz rounded ·out the middle distance rurmeis, by competing in the 800m. Lindyberg faced the competition and ran a seasonal ·• • best of 2:01.0. Steven Hayes and Will Allen both had extremely good times in the 400m race~ Hayes came in at 51.1, which may qllalify him for the states, while Allen ran a personal best of 52.1. Hayes also showed well in the 200m,. running a 23.42. Tomorrow morning the squad leaves for the two-day state championship meet in · Buffalo. This will be the climax of the . post-season competition for many athletes; however, they will compete in their last meet at home on Friday, May 19. Neither the tvten's nor the Women's Track Teams can afford to lie down on the job this week. The men · head to Buffalo for the States and the women to WPI for.ECAC's. :01~ 'I,NDIAN BLANKET special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90, And · Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentic lnd.lan Design Each one Personally Blessed BY Wise owl Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reservation $150. value For Only $39. Postpaid satisfaction Guaranteed. The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed BY Indian MediCine Man Your Order Provides Help urgently Needed BY Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise owl, .Drowning creek Reservation, R#2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 ATHLETE OF THE WEEK Winners may pick up their framed award certificates in the Sports Infromation Office, located on the first floor of 17 South Lane: - Wendy Vicent - Ann Glick~man - Jeanne Cutrone - Ron Kinghorn - Terry Campbell - Paul Garnett -John Keller - Tony Amarante - Kathy Kavaney -JenJoyce Wo!men's Lacrosse Finishes Long Campaign At 5-7 ··Says Goodbye to Veteran Standouts By C.R. FRIEDRICH junior Kristen Ryan {two On a sunny Bailey field this past Tuesday, the women's lacrosse team bowed to Williams College, 13-9, bringing their final record to 5- 7. In the final match, Union stayed with the Ephwomen for much of the contest, but midway 'lhrough the second half, Williams took control of the game, and a late rally by the: Dutchwomen was not enough to overcome the deficit. Playing in her las:t: intercollegiate game, senior Courtney Lynch scored two goals. The captain has been a standout throughout her four years, both in lacrosse and in field hockey. Other Standouts included junior Megan Kennedy, seniors Fiona Shukri and Nicole Angelides. Their .strong play inspired some (){ the younger players as well. Rookie Robin Bidstru:p pumped in three goals, while assists) and .sophomores Lynn Hyde andJen Branwein all put in strong efforts. On defense, the goaltending tandem of Shelia Con~ay (eight saves) and Kim Seed (six saves) kept the tea~:D close in their end of the field. While· the season was not as statistically successful .as was hoped earlier this spring, the team came together and met success on many o.ccasions. The upperclass leadership surely had a tremendous effect on the team, which they will carry into next season. That combined with the actual ' ' playing experience gained by the younger players will no doubt transfer into more wins in 1990. Coach Morrison earlier in the year said that this. team could be whatever it wanted to be. The hard work and dedication put in by this year's team has placed them one step closer to that goal. SCOTI\S TOP 10REASONS WHY YOU SHOULD WRITE FOR CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS by Scott Adams SporlsEdi4>r 10. You'll get to hang out with Greg Goetz, who is a storehouse ofknowledge 9~ It'll look good CJn your resume 8. No one else does, and as we all know, it ain't cool to co-nform to the norm. 7. Your parents will be proud of you and buy you all kinds of stuff 6. It means a fre-e ,meal, and we're not talking peanuts l5. It beats staying home and having phone sex 4. Members otthe opposite sex will dig you 3. Look at this section; there's nowhere to go but up!. · 2. We don't want to do it anymore, we've . g<>t better things to do with our senior . spring terms. 1. You'll get to hang out with Greg Goetz, who is a stor~house of knowledge O,N BEHALF OF CONCORDlENSIS SPORTS Greg and Scott say . WELCOME PARENTS I I

IJ:v SCOTT ADAMS .Spor.ts Editor Beating out some stiff competition, this week's Atlllete of the Week is Fresl!man Track sensation Rika Poor. Rika went to the New Y&rk S:tate Track Meet in 011ecnta last weekend just happy to be there, but came away with bet name in the tec<Jtd books. Rika blew away the competition by running a stare record 59.16 in the 400m dash, wilich, of course, is also a· school record. She adds this te het already established state record of 1:01.68 in the indoor 40(L Jltst a freshman, Rfka shows the pote11tial to destroy quite a CONCORDIBNSlS May 11, 1989 few more records before her track· days are done. Her personal best in the indoor 400 (1:00.29) is already better.than 'the state record she set last winter. Rika now looks forward to the ECAC's to be held at. WPI this weekend. She qualified in not only the 400 meter dash, but also the 100 and 200 meter tuns. Unfortunately, she will be unable to ccmpete in all three, but her chances in the 400 look quite good. Rita is a history majQt from Cornish, NH, and attended Loomis Chafee ;pr~p school. Honorable Mentions for Athlete cf the Week honors go out to two of Rika's track teammates. On the men's team, junior Chip Silver added another accomplishment to what has been an exceptional track season for him by finishing second in the Decathlon State Cllampiom;hip held at SUNY Geneseo. He now looks fo.rward.; to competing in tile 100 meter high hwdles at tile Men's State 1'rack Meet to te held in Buffalo this weekend. Senior Lynne Erdman also bad a great week at the Women's State Meet. She blew away the sehool record in the 1500 meter run by four seconds, finislling with a time of 5:01 and will join Rika at the ECAC Tournament. Congratulations, Rika, Chip, and Lynne and good luck in your upcoming meets. Pa.~ge 23 OLuncnr~ iensis SPORTS SP·ORTS ACCORDING ~TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor Mandarich would not be the · first football player to try his luck in the ring, maybe he could eventually beco111e the first heavyweight cha111pion/ a:ll-pro tackle/ Mr. U!liverse (his aspiration after his football Jon Peters And The Duke A bizarre rumor is floating around the world of sports. It seems that a boxing match between heavyweight champion Mike Tyson and mammoth offensive lineman Tony Mandarich is in the works. Like it's not bad enough that Sugar Ray Leonard is coming out of retirement again. But anyway. there are a couple of roadblocks that must be removed before the fight between Tyson and Mandarich could ever be realized. Firstly, the Green Bay Paclcers, who selected Mandarich in the first round of the NFL draft, would have to sanction his participation in -the brawl. (What else could it be but a brawl. Mandarich may be even more of a sociopath than Tyson when involved in competition.) And secondly, Tyson would have to start taking cabs before he gets more . career). And besides themoney, what would Trscn's motivation be to com\)at this gridiron Goliath? Besidt':s ~ome macho incentive, ntOtlling would seem to make sense. Tyson does not have toO fight him. but if he didn't ,tJtell he might look like a wimp. And no heavyweight ch~m·pion wants to be known as a .sissy. By ANDREW SEEWALD Jon Peters, a high school pit(;her in Te}:as with a 51-0 record, was on the cover of a re<:ent Sports Illustrated. Wilen I first saw the cover, I said to myself, \He'll probably ttl-rn out to be a bum.\ I. said tb.is because, in fact, even the . most sucessful high school pitchers often do not succeed in tile major leagues. As I was reaOing the story, I was thinking,: 1) I wish I could pitch like this guy, and 2) this 1s what sports are all about. , Th.e significance of Peters' record is that it is a high school record for wins without a. loss. For the record 51st win, tile entire town of 11,000 !)eople rallied behind Peters .. Tile excitement of those· in a;t~endance, or those listening on the radio, or those who were going to watch the game on videotape later was as great as tbat -of a fan at a major league game. ·The question, then, is tltis: even if Peters flops at the next level, can't this be an end in itself! Maybe sports in America have been blown so far out of pr-oportion that no longer does a rally on the diamond rally the local town. Professional sports l!ave become a polished, high- twh, increasingly distant and cold, buy-the-best- team-you- can (both college and pro), billion dollar industry. Sports have created an entire economy of their own. This is OK with me. But, if a fan can gain the sante excitement from cheering Jon Peters to another no-hitter as from cheering Nolan: Ryan to another no- hitter, and at th.e same time know Peters personally, know that he's part of the community, then why can't the _pro players have the same relationship with their fans? . . The .answer to this does not rest with the athletes themselves. The system has grown, thanks mostly to television, and is 11ow all- consuming. Not too long ago, the players used to be .paid only two or three times what their average fan was making; and they were11't so distant from the fans. Maybe the cbange happened · when the Brooklyn Dodgers moved to LA, and maybe that just haJ>pened to coincide with the rise of television, but ballplayers, and therefore the games. have changed. I cannot speak from personal e:xperience what it was like to cheer for the Brooklyn Dodgers, but I can speak abo11t one particular Dodger, Duke Snider. Snider wrote a book that came out last summer, and lle did a book- signing at a New York City bookstore. · This book-signing is something I'll never forget. Even standing in line in anticiJ>ation was incredible. Hundreds of people spent their lunch hour and then some waiting to meet the Duke. Everyone was telling their Brooklyn Dodger stories. I was telling my dad's Brooklyn Dodger stories. It was a spine· - chilling sense of community there in the basement of B Dalton. People were talking about the Duke, PeeWee, Campy, and all the rest as if they lived next door and had had Thanksgiving dinner with them. Then the moment came. Think of the way your hand feels when yoa finish two hours of writing for an exam. Now imagine signing your name for three straight hours. And, imagine that he was IJersonalizing each book! The Dodgers had a wllole bunch of guys ju~t like this. I guess that as long as we don't have any more Brooklyn Dodgers to cheer for. the best we can do is to cheer for people like Jon Peters who, for now, is just another guy who happens to :play baseball better than most ·than a speeding ticket, or at least he should find a bobby that would help him manage his neep for speed (Le. give Paul Newman a call.) What would this fight prove? Since both would be assured millions, and Tyson could not lose his title, tllere would be nothing more than bragging rights at stake. While It would be an interesting contest to say the least, the sce11ario bas the rnakirugs of a spinoff from the Rocky movies: Clubber Lang vs. Drago. Whether or !lot this match occurs, the type 10f'hype that the public would :have to endure would be even more dizzying than the excitement surrounding Robbie Kni evel's fum p of the fountains at Ceasar's Palace. ActualJy. Evel Knievel's ill-fated Ieapo0ftbem may be a better comparison. At ·least this is the kind Otf :result that oddsmakers an!l other hop lessly concerned parties would want. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER There is nothing better than · watchi11g an NBA play-off game. Nothing. I had thought that a good hockey game can create the same excitement and move at the same intense speed. but it can't. I had also thought that tb.e Super Bowl could produce tile same magic. •. But, it can't. Th.ere is only one Magic, and he plays for the Los Angeles Lakers .. • 1 National Basketball Asociation Commissioner David Stern has created a league Sec()nd to none in the .world of sports. I congratulate him for a job well done. This past S11nday, I was in basketball heaven. I witnessed Michael Jordan of the Chicago Bulls take the final game of the first round play-off series against the Cleveland Cavaliers into his own hands. Jordan . shaked, baked, soared, swished, -~ dribbled, and dunked all over and around Cleveland, and the Bulls now face the New York Knicks in the best-of seven conference semifmal ,matchup. In the last three games of the Cleveland series, Jordan averaged an astounding 46 points a game. He helped to . defeat the Cav's who the Bulls never beat in six regular season games. Enough superlatives about the series as a whole. The last 20 seconds of game five were all that I needed to see to ·realize that nothing could beat the NBA come J>lay-off time. I watched the game with a semi-Bul1s fan, a Knicks fan, and a non-fan with cnly a grade school gym class knowledge of basketball. The four of us were hunched over the television, anxiously awaiting a heroic finish and a breathttaking victory for either team. It really didn't matter to us who won, because we had already gotten our money's worth. During the commercial break with about 20 seconds remaining, the three 1 of us fans were howling and screaming. We were pumped up, and we were watching a game that didn't mean much to us. Our non-fan was unenthused. When the game caooe back on, Chigago scored tel take a one-po:int lead. Needles:s io say, Jordan scored the hccp. Our ncn-fan began to f.eel the excitement and the energy. She/He (I do not want to be seldst and I do not w:ant to divulge the non-fan's sex) started to jump, flail, and even began to yell. Clevelamd's ball with six seconds. Tb.ey scote on a set play off of the inbounds pass. Cavs: by one point We were screaming, all four of us. Chicago inbounds to Jordan, he fakes ri;gbt, goes left, and shoots ... WOW! He hit the shot and. time expired. We were drained, ex.c~pt for our non-fan, who was ready for the next game. Too bad for she/he there wasn't another one on. But Jam glad there wasn't, at least for my health. Too much e:xcitement in one afternoon is b.ad for the health. At least no\W 1 know where I can always find it when .1 need it. Thanks. Mt. Stern. ......

,•' John Ke-ller, pictured here, was selected to the Capital District All Star lacrosse team along with MVP Dave DeBardinis, Blake Henderson and Paul Garnett. women~s Softball went 1 .. 3 last -week and finished the sea$0:n witll a 6·7 record. DeBardinis Names MVP Of Area All-Star Lax Team Keller, Henderson, Garnett to Join Him By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Senior Lacrosse captain Dave \DeBo\ Debardinis was unanimously named MVP for the Capital District All-Star Lacrosse tei\m Monday as selected by the lax coaches from Union, RPI, Albany and Siena. A mechanical engineering major from Rush, N.Y. Dave was one of four Union players selected to this elite squad. Joining him is junior John Keller at the attack position, senior Blake Henderson at mid- field? and freshman goaltender Paul Garnett at defense. A four year letter winner, Dave was a mid-fielder for his first three seasons on the Dutchman squad but adjusted easily to the attack position this year. Sidelined with a knee injury for three games, he has scored 22 goals and 25 assists for 4 7 points in the 11 games he was able to .play. His 4.7 points per game average is even higher than that of the total points leader, Keller. Coach Chuck Priore credits Dave for his unanimous MVP selection. \He has made us click this year,\ Priore said. \Both on and off the field. Dave has done everything wen above average.'' · · \He has made us dick this year • • • Both on and off the field, Dave has done everything well above average, tt Another of Dave's accomplishments this year was helping the D11t~hinen win the Capital Cup for the fourth straight year. The Dutchmen beat out each of Siena, Albany and RPI for that.honor. · Congratulations, Dave, on this prestigious award! VARSITY LETTER WINNERS: THIS lS YOUR LAST CHANCE PICK UP YOUR TICKETS FOR THE ATHLETIC AWARDS BANQ:UET IN THE ALUMNI GYM ATHLETIC OFFICE BY 11:30 AM FRIDAY. THE BANQUET WILL TAKE PLACE ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 17 AT 6:00 PM lN THE COLLEGE CE-NTER. May 11, t9S9 Women's Track Impressive At States Poor Sets State Record in 400 Meters By SHORTCAKE Last weekend, the women's track team traveled to Ithaca to compete in the two day New York State Meet. Union was well represented by six women who qualified for the prestigious meet. They didn't let Union down as they returned home the sb!.th best · team in New York State. The field events began the day as powerhouse Alix Goldschmidt received medals in both of her events. In the · javelin,. Alix speared a silver · medal with a personal best throw. Alix then teak sixth place in the shot put. · Meg Parsons fmished fourth in the goo m run by crossing the line in 2: 19, brealcing her own personal record .by 8 seconds and missing the school record by less then a second. Lynne Erdman then ran a strong race in the 1500 m run. Her time of 5:01 was good enough to smash the school record by 4 seconds, but landed her in just eighth place amidst the sttong field. Sandy With style and grace (Rika) ran a 58.99 in the trials and a state record 59.16 in t:he finals. Anselment proved herself a versatile_athlete when she opted to enter the seven event Heptathlon instead of single events she usually competes in. In this brutal undertaking. Sandy jumped, threw and ran her way to third place. Out of the seven events, she achieved personal records in fmu with marks of 7.38 m in the shot put, 23.6 m in the javelin, 2:28 in the 800 m run, 19.0 seconds in the 100 m high hurdles, L67 m in the high jump, 4.22 m in the loa.g jump and 30.0 seconds in tile 200m dash. One of the exciting highlights of the weekend came in the 400 m run whea retgning indoor state champ Rika Poor raced for .the outd()Or crowt'l.. With style ·she ran a 58.99 in the trials and a state record 59.16 in the fmals. Her 58.99 second split leaves ller less than a second shy of qualifying for Nationals. In the 4 x 400 m relay, the team of Lynne, .Meg, Rika and Denise McMillan finished sixth in the state as they crossed the line ill 4:12. Although the State's are now over, the women ate not finished yet. There are more . -records to break and medals to be won as they prepare for yet another two day meet. this Saturday and Sunday, the lady tracksters will be competing i11 the ECAC meet to be held at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. - Got JO,CK BLOCK? Turn lt lnto WRlT,ER'S ITCH. WRITE F.QR CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS! Call Greg 374 .. 2489 or Scott 386-4347

~ ~ ~ (/) a: :::c (.) 1D 0 b :::c a.., John Keller, pictured here, was selected to the Capital District All Star lacrosse· team alo:ng wi:th MVP Dave DeBardi:nis, Blake Henderson and Paul Garnett. Women's Sof:tl>all went 1m3 last week and finished the season· with a 6-7 record. nn DeBardini·s Names MVP Of Area All-Star lax Tea~m Keller, Henderson, Garnett to Join Him By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Senior Lacrosse caplain Dave \DeBo\ Debardinis was unanimously named MVP for the Capital District All-Star Lacrosse team Monday as selected by the lax. coaches from Union, RPI, Albany and Siena. A mechanical engineering major from Rush, N.Y. Dave was one of four Union players selected to this elite squad. Joining him is junior John Keller at the attack position, senior Blake Henderson at mid- field, and freshman goaltender Paul Garnett at defense. A four year letter winner, Dave was a mid-fielder for his first three seasons on the Dutchman squad b11t adjusted easily to the attack position this year. Sidelined with a knee injury for three games, he has scored 22 goals and 25 assists for 4 7 points in the 11 games he was able to play. His 4.7 points per game average is even higher than that of the total points leader, Keller. Coach Chuck Priore credits Dave for his unanimous MVP selection. \He has made us click this year,\ Priore said. \Both on and off the field. Dave has done everything well above average.\ \He bas made us dick this year . . . Both on and off the field, Dave has done everything well above average.\ Another of Dave's accomplishments this year was helping the Dutchmen win the Capital Cup for the fourth straight year. The Dutchmen beat out each of Siena, Albany and RPI for lhat honor. Congratulations, Dave, on this prestigious award! VARSITY LETTER WINNERS: THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE PICK UP YOUR TICKETS FOR THE ATHLETIC AWARDS BANQUET lN THE ALUMNI GYM ATHLETIC OFFICE BY 11:30 AM FRIDAY. THE BANQUET WILL TAKE PLACE ON WEDNESDAY, MAY 17 AT 6:00 PM IN THE COLLEGE CENTER. May 11,1989 Women's Track Impressive At States Poor Sets State Record in 400 Meters By SHORTCAKE Last weekend, the women's track team traveled to Ithaca to compete in the two day New York State Meet. Union was well represented by six women who qualified for the prestigious meet. They didn't let Union down as they returned home the sixth best team in New York State. The field events began the day as powerhouse Alix Goldschmidt received medals in both of her events. In the · javelin, Alix speared a silver medal with a personal best throw. Alix then took sixth place in the shot put. Meg Parsons finished fourth in the 800 m run by crossing the line in 2:19, breaking her own personal record by 8 UNION .UNION UNION UN UNION IJNION tJ:NIO~ seconds and missing the school record by less then a second. Lynne Erdman then ran a strong race in the 1500 m run. Her time of 5:01 was good enough to smash the school record by 4 seconds, but landed her in just eighth place amidst the strong field. Sandy With style and grace (Rika) ran a 58.99 in the trials and a state record 59.1() in the finals. Anselment proved herself a versatile athlete when she opted to enter the seven event Heptathlon instead of single events she usually competes in. In this brutal undertaking, Sandy jumped, threw and ran her way to third place. Out of the seven events, she achieved personal records in four with marks of 7.38 m in the shot put, 23.6 m in the javelin, 2:28 in the 800 m run, 19.0 seconds in the 100 m high hurdles, 1.67 m in the high jump, 4.22 m in the long jump and 30.0 seconds in the 200m dash. One of the exciting highlights of the weekend came in the 400 m run when reigning indoor state champ Rika Poor raced for the outdoor crown. With style she ran a 58.99 in the trials and a state record 59.16 in the finals. Her 58.99 second split leaves her less than a second shy of qualifying for Nationals. In the 4 x 400 m relay, the team of Lynne, Meg, Rika and Denise McMillan finished sixth in the state as they crossed the line in 4:12. Although the State's are now over, the women are not finished yet. There are more records to break and medals to be won as they prepare for yet another two day meet. this Saturday and Sunday, the lady trackstcrs will be competing in the ECAC meet to be held at Worcester Polytechnic Institute. Got JOCK BLOCK? Turn It Into WRITER'S ITCH. WRITE FOR CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS! Call Greg 374-2489 or Scott 386-4347

' Founded-. a 1877 / \'C : '1:1 j;• .... v·ol. CXVIii, No. 23 . Schenectady, New York May 18, 1989 Student Forum Elections Complete Despite Low Voter Turnout Last Friday the Student Forum held their annual officer ele~t.ions. . This year's top pOSlti.On of President has been taken by David Cohen. The election. however,· has provoked many questions, as less than half of Union's student body turned out ·to vote. The class of 1992 had the most voters with 240 ballots cast and the class of 1991 placed a mere 180. With a· total number of 776 ballots cast, nearly two-thirds of the student body went unrepresented. · There were no landslid.e victories in this year's election. The largest percentage of votes .. received went to David Cohen with 59% of the total ballots cast. A majority of 51% is required for election. The position of Alumni Council Representative was the only office which was not completely filled, Two positions are necessary and only one has beeq filled. The candidates for the run-off election are Wendy Endress and Donna Lazendorf. The first position has been filled by Josh Waldman. The run~off will be held on Monday May 22. Other winners in this yeat's election include Michael Schulitz as Vice President for Administration; Elizabeth :Berliner as Vice President of Academics; and Mark Richter as Vice President for Finance. The Presidents for each class are: Usa Archabald: (class of '90),,Dtew Ward (class of '91) · and Jon Lennon (class of '92). 57th Annual P·rize Day Honors Outstanding Students By JENNY LYNN COOK Annual Prize Day occurred this past Saturday, May 13, at the Memorial Chapel. Prize Day, which has been a tradition at Union since 1932, was scheduled for the Saturday of Parents' Weekend; so that the parents of the prize winners are able to watch the ceremony. The welcome was given by a Union trustee, Norton H. Reamer, class of 1958. It was followed by the announcement of prize winners given by: Margaret Schadler, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs: Lawrence Hollander, Dean .. of Engineering; Peter Costa, President of Student Forum; Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students; William Scanlan, Basketball/Golf Coach; Margaret Schadler, Co- chair Women's Commission; and President John Morris. Most of -the prizes awarded are in memory of Union alllmni and have monetary value . The most prestigious award is the Frank Bailey Prize, and this year's recipient is Kevin W. Irland. This prize is given to the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any field. Irland has implemented the first International Student Orientation as well as coordinated International Student Assistance .. He also served two years on the Orientation Committee and the Student Affairs Committee. A silver bowl inscribed with Kevin's name was awarded to him and his name will appear on the large Bailey Prize plaque in the College Center. G. Gordon Liddy Sparks Controversy And Mixed· View·s At Union By JAY FREELAND News Editor · Last Friday at Old Chapel, G. Gordon Liddy delivered a lecture which caused split reactions among those in attendapce. Speaking for over two and one quarter hours, Liddy discussed many occurrences within his career and held a half hour question and answer session at the end · of his lecture. ~ Presented by the Union § College Speaker's Forum, z O r Liddy's bill a.t Parent's -, Weekend provoked a full house 1iii of students, parents and faculty. r§ The topic of Liddy's talk was \Surviving vs. Prevailing,\ and G a.. drew upon his experiences as . Gordon Liddy during his co ntrove rs.ia I Parents' an assistant district attorney in · • Weekend lecture. Manhattan. as well as his· Liddy was asked what his career with the United States feeling would be if he killed Government and his someone and later found out Liddy was asked what his feelings would be if ·he killed someone and later found out that person was innocent. Liddy's response was, 11 it would just be one more dead person in the world.\ involvement in the Watergate Affair and subsequent prison term. Receiving praise by most of the colleges who have witnessed Liddy's tal~s. Union's reaction appears to be a mixed one. Many of those opposed to Liddy's speech took • offense to several comments made by Liddy and the actual categories he discussed. The statement which seems to have stirred the most controversy came during the question and answer session. . .. ' 11 ,, I I~ 6 I i ' that the person was innocent. Liddy's response was, \It would . just be one more dead person in . the world.\ Many people also took offense to the fact that Liddy seemed to display a sense of pride in his past actions. . Liddy at one point made a joke to his license plate having the inscription \H20-GA TE\ and · referred to the affair as being \his\ several times. Liddy's talk, however, did receive a standing ovation and he was reportedly asked back to Union again. Several of those in attendance made a point of shaking hands with Liddy after the talk and mariy found him equal to or better tban their expectations as a SJleaker. During the question and answer session, Liddy's moral · values as well as additional questions regarding the . Watergate affair were brought to his attention. During one question, Liddy was asked to have a beer at a fraternity .house following the lecture, to which, Liddy condemned the use of alcohol and urged fraternity members to do the same. ~- s; ~ til a:· ~ fii 0 § a. ~hoto of the Week: One of our several new ~nvestmen1s sits locked in$ide from the outside world. · $500 Overall, the response to Liddy's lecture remains split as has been the case for several other controversial speakers at Union. Last year's Parents Weekend speaker Stansfield Turner and Commencement speaker Peter (}race received somewhat similar reactions. The next major speaker to take the stage at Union will be this year's Commencement speakel'. Lee Hamilton. ' i

t , s Uege 1877 Vol. CXVIII, No. 23 Schenectady, New York May 18, 1989 Student Forum Elections Complete Despite Low Voter Turnout Last Friday the Student Forum held their annual officer ele~t.ions. This year's top posltlon of President has been taken by David Cohen. The election, however, has provoked many questions, as less than half of Union's student body turned out to vote. The class of 1992 had the most voters with 240 ballots cast and the class of 1991 placed a mere 180. With a total number of 776 ballots cast nearly two-thirds of the student body went unrepresented. There were no landslide victories in this year's election. The largest percentage of votes received went to David Cohen with 59% of the total ballots cast. A majority of 51% is required for election. The position of Alumni Council Representative was the only office which was not completely filled. Two positions are necessary and only one has been filled. The candidates for the run-off election are Wendy Endress and Donna Lazendorf. The first position has been filled by Josh Waldman. The run-off will be held on Monday May 22. Other winners in this year's election include Michael Schulitz as Vice President for Administration; Elizabeth Berliner as Vice President of Academics; and Mark Richter as Vice President f<>r Finance. The Presidents for each class are: Lisa Archabald (class of '90), Drew Ward (class of '91) and Jon Lennon (class of '92). 57th Annual Prize Day Honors Outstanding Students By JENNY LYNN COOK Annual Prize Day occurred this past Saturday, May 13, at the Memorial Chapel. Prize Day, which has been a tradition at Union since 1932, was scheduled for the Saturday of Parents' Weekend, so that the parents of the prize winners are able to watch the ceremony. The welcome was given by a Union trustee, Norton H. Reamer, class of 1958. It was followed by the announcement of prize winners given by: Margaret Schadler, Associate Dean of Undergraduate Programs: Lawrence Hollander, Dean of Engineering; Peter Costa, President of Student Forum; Joseph Mammola, Dean of Students; William Scanlon, Basketball/Golf Coach; Margaret Schadler, Co- chair Women's Commission; and President John Morris. Most of the prizes awarded are in memory of Union alumni and have monetary value. The most prestigious award is the Frank Bailey Prize, and this year's recipient is Kevin W. Irland. This prize is given. to the senior who has rendered the greatest service to the College in any field. Irland has implemented the first International Student Orientation as well as coordinated International Student Assistance. He also served two years on the Orientation Committee and the Student Affairs Committee. A silver bowl inscribed with Kevin's name was awarded to him and his name will appear on the large Bailey Prize plaque in the College Center. G. Gordon Liddy Sparks Controversy And M'ixed Views At Union By JAY FREELAND News Editor Last Friday at Old Chapel, G. Gordon Liddy delivered a lecture which caused split reactions among those in attendance. Speaking for <>ver two and one quarter hol!rs, Liddy discussed many occurrences within his career and held a 11alf hour questi()n and answer session at the elld · of his lecture. Presented by the U11ion College Speaker's Forrrm, Liddy's bill at Parent\s Weekend provoked a full house ()(students, parents and faculty. The topic of Liddy's talk was \'Surviving vs. Prevailing,•• a11d drew upon his experiences as an assistant district attorney in Manhattan, as well as bis career with the United States Government and his Liddy was asked what ltis feelings would be if be killed someone and later found out that person was innocent. Liddy's response was, \it would just be one more deacl person in the world.\ involvement in the Waterg;ate Affair and subsequent prison term. Receiving praise by most of the colleges who have witnessed Liddy's tails, Union's reaction appears to be a mixed one. Many of Lbcse opposed to Liddy's speech to()k offense to several comme-nts made by Liddy and the actual categories he discussed. The statement which seems to have stirred the rn()st controversy came during tile question and answer sessi()n. G. Gordon Liddy during his controversial Parents' Weekend lecture. LLJ a: a: 0 1- z ~ >- ro 8 ~ a. Liddy was asked what his feeling would be if he killed someone and later f()und out that the person was innocent. Liddy's response was, \It would just be one more dead person in the world.\ Many people also took offense to the fact that Liddy seemed to display a sense of pride in his past actions. Liddy at one point made a joke to his license plate having the inscription \H20-GA TE\ and referred to the affair as being \his\ several times. Liddy's talk, however, did receive a standing ovation and he was reportedly asked back to Union again. Several of those in attendance made a point of shaking hands with Liddy after the talk and many found him equal to or better tban their expectations as a speaker. During the question and answer session, Liddy's moral values as well as additional questions regarding the Watergate affair were brought to his attention. During one question, Liddy was asked to have a beer at a fraternity house following the lecture, to which. Liddy condemned the use of alcohol and urged fraternity members to do the same. Overall, the response to ~ Liddy's lecture remains split as :g; has been the case for several ::l other controversial speakers at ~ Union. Last year's Parents a: Weekend speaker Stansfield :X: o Turner and Commencement >- co speaker Peter Grace received ~ somewhat similar reactions. a: The next major speaker to take ~hoto of the Week: One of our several new $SOD the stage at Union will be this mvestments sits locked inside from the outside world. year's Commencement speaker, Lee Hamilton.

.Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 ,, . . . . . . . -· (!Lnnrorb·tensis N-EWS ANALYSIS. Minimum Wag.e Presents Two Front Battle On The Hill By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. The minimum wage debate floating around Congress has not received a great deal of lip service since its proposal, but very quietly it has caused an uproar. The decision to raise the wage to either $4.25 or $4.65 has pitted Congress and President Bush in a power struggle, while concurrently raising the question of the necessity of a minimum wage at all. The D.emocraticall y contt()lle-d House of Representatives has emphasized that the 30 cent deficiency which Mr. Bush proposed is the gro11nd for battle over the issue. Knowledgeab'le accountants suc·h as Jim Wright argue that without the extra change, the increase will not help at all. This argument, however (brought .to us by the same people who proposed a Congressional increase in New Recycling Program Stressed To Union's Campus And Comm,unity without supplying new garbage cans or boxes. But, IF YOU NEED A BOX OR TRASH CAN TO PUT RECYCLABLE PAPER INTO I p L E A s E CONTA.CT US. The paper waste {foes not have to be separated by color, and magazi.nes, laser-print paper, staples~ and plastic-windowed envelopes CAN be included. However, NEWSPRINT AND NEWSPAPERS CANNOT be put into. the bin. S.P.A.A. will mollitor the bin, and call for it to· be emptied. If dtere are any concerns or problems, please call Alan Eisenberg (x4247) or Robin Isserles (382- 5767). Please help us and encourage recycling, as this can be a very successful program salary upwards of 40% not six months ago), is not over a nickel and a quarter. The real' struggle is over wbo will carry the big stick: · Congress or Bush. Bush, in his first months in office, has presented himself as a compromiser. The honeymoon now over, minimum wage is the precedent for which influence over the next three and a half· years will be determined. Bush, wary of earlier concessions, now wants to tighten the leash, while Congress, realizing the opportunity, is attempting to break free. The legitimacy of minimum w.age is an important question which should arise from the debate as well. The idea of minimum wage comes from a different age. Inaugurated during the FOR years, minimum wage was intended to combat the Great Depression, when millions had no income to speak of. Since then it has become a vehicle to hold back individual progress in pursuit of the American dream. · It is sad to think that an extra thirty cents is going to help the av:erage mintmum wage laborer. The truth is that minimum wage jobs usQally Tbe real struggle is over who will carry tbe big stic'k;. Congress or Bush. Bush, in his first months in office, has presented himself as a compromiser. The honeymoon • . . <is now over. fall into tw9 categories: those hard labor jobs w·hich indeed deserve more than $4.25, and those whiph are so mindless that the $3.35 now earned is an embarrassment to the work ethic which made our country gr-eat. By eliminating a minimum, employers wou1d be forced to pay people what they truly deserve, rather than having a ;taw which holds the employee at bay. To imply that removal of the law would. recreate the sweatsh:op scenario is llnrealisdc. Those industries which do use minimum wage wm:~ld be forced to raise their h()urly, or else suffer the C(msequence of under- ~mployment. This stance might encourage migrant labor by illegal aliens, but a strong fElderal commitment to the eradicadon of sue~ groups could help counter such a trend. The worker held down by the limitations of minimum wage -is the real problem., not how little he or she earns 'legally. An end to minimum wage w(i)uld free the worker to pursue a realistic salary, instead of h.aving ·to wait for the bureaucracy to decide what the level of poverty will be for the next generation. SP AA Sponsors WIC Program And Strives For Campus Involvement By KARA MERRILL Keep WIC lit! This past Tuesday, Union students signed hundreds of letters bearing this mes.sage for our national legislators. In conjunction with the health fair held in the College Center, Students for Political Awareness and Ac.tion sponsored a table concerning WIC-- the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children, operated by the U.S. government. The WIC program performs three crucial functions: It provides high protein foods to low-income pregnant women, as well as to infants and children up to five years old. It motivates and educates mothers to be attentive tO the nutritional quality of food that they and their children eat. In addition, WIC ensures that its participants' medical needs are met and handles referrals to health 'Services. WIC is highly effective for the people who do participate in the program; however, not everyone who is eligible can participate. Be.cause of inadequate funding; WIC nmst tum away an estimated 3.6 million women, childen and infants. Considering the affluence of the United States, this is a disgrace and a tragedy~ (The U.S. ranks 19th among industrialized countries in preventing infa11t mortality. Twenty~sev:en children die each day in America from the effects ()f poverty). It cannot be ignored that our s.ociety, as a whole, will pay much more in the long run if programs such as WIC ate not given money now. We will ltave an inadequately prepared work-force unable to meet economic challenges of the future. In addition, funding programs such as WIC will actUally save taxpayers~ money. For example, each dollar spent o.n women in the WIC program can s~ve up to three dollars in hospitalization costs. As President Theodore Roos.evelt said in 1909 at the first White House Conference ()n the Care of Dependent Cltildre'n: \When you take care ()f the children, you, are taking care of the nation of tomorrow.\ - · . . A recycling program has · been started by ·Students For Political Awareness and Action. During Spring Break, a red bin was installed in the mail room area of the first floor of the College Center. Physical Plant is willing to help us in recycling the great amount of paper waste which is generated daily in the · College Center, primarily by the mail room and offices in the College Center. Physical Plant will help us by taking the S 0 R TED paper waste from the offices in the College Center, and putting it in the bin. In order to help us, we would like all offices in the College Center to start sorting their paper waste, and placing it in separate boxes or trash cans. We feel that if there is a separate can for paper and one for other waste in each office, this can be accomplished . and the proceeds from the ' ~-------------------------------- ... project are being used to benefit tlie college community. The International Relations ~lub presents: a panel discussicn on ''FOREIGN POLICY IN THE BUSH ADMINISTRATION' Panelists include: Thomas Fallati '92 KenOrosco '90 W'IllShields '90 \The Domestic Side of Foreign Policy\ \US-Soviet Relations\ \Bush Policy on Terr-orism\ Thursday, May 18 7:30pm College Center Atrium Sample Letter Date Representative U.S. House of Representatives Washington, DC 20515 , Dear Representative : I am sending you a birthday candle to remind you to \Keep WIC Lit\ by supporting full funding for the WIC program. · Thousands of babies and small children in our state are hungry and undernourished. Please make sure the WIC program receives more money so that all these (bildren can live to celebrate their first birthday. , ~©@fHI@Wlfl~lf If@ @IM WJ@!JJJrg;~fi~ · Sincer¢ly, Y ~ur ~ame and, address : ~ffJ&Jl!K fJ ~~ [Jj) !E ~ Aline Quester, a former senior staff economist on President Reagan's Council of Economic Advisers, will speak about wornen ·in the labor force J and male-female wage di.fferentials at the 11 a.m. ~in~rva Hour lt Thursday, May 2~; 1n the College Center aud1tonum. .. As a former senior economist and study director at the Center for Naval . Analysis, she led studies to determine Navy personnel requirements and training costs. Quester holds a doctorate in economics from. Tufts University. · i •

·' l fage 3 · CONCQRDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Former Watson Recipient To P.iscuss Fellowship . . ' . By ELISE FOODY News Editor Susan Knoll, a 1987 Union 11ecipient of the Watson fellowship is scheduled · to speak about her year-long venture thi~ Tuesday, May 23. Knoll, who graduated from Union· jrt 1987 spent ber following ye<l!' after graduation studying tbe lives and values ()f working class women in East She wants to dispel the mytb tbat accepting a Watson 'Fellowsbip means wasting a year after college. Asia. She travelled to H<'•ng Kong, Thailand, The Philippines and the People's Republic of China. All expenses she incuned were t>aid for by the Watson Foundati{}n. While she was in Hong Kong, Knoll taught English to local garment workers. In Thailand she worked on a cooperative sHk farm. S;he interviewed several politicians in the Philippines and worked with members of the Max.i tribe.it:~ the People's Republic of China. Knoll described the Maxis as the matriarchal tribe in which women held the most pow.er. within the society. She found this fact most interesting because East Asia is a predominantly male-oriented society. During her visit to Thailand, · she he~ped to plan both a day care cen~r :and a healtll clinic. This proposal is .also l)eing • . used as a model for various · . villages throughout Tllailand. Knoll will be tetuming to Thailand for a year to begin the actual building of the day care center. She will also train people and .organize events throughout the center's few beginning months. In September, Knoll will enroll in P:flnceton Universi~y's Woodrow Wilson School of International DevelDpment. Tht;,>, program will consist of studying 2 years at Princeton and spending a year in Thailand. :Knoll spoke avidly on the . benefits she gained as a result of her Watson experience. and stated that Princeton actually recruited her to attelld the Woodrow Wilson school upon . hearing about the Watson fellowship. She believes that the Watson \opens so many doors for you,\ and .slle stated that it .helped her to get into · graduate school. She will speak to all those interested in the program Tuesday in SS 103 at 7:30 p.m. She wants to di~pel the . myth that accepting a Watson Fellowship means 1 'wasting a year\ after college~ as is · sometimes the unfortunate misconception. She encom:ages everyone to apply and is eager to answer any questions concerned students may have. Report.ed Security Incidents Week of 8/5 to 8/14 DaiQ· Time 5/0.9 8:50am 5/10 3:04am 5/10 9:30am 5/11 1:34am 5111 1o:ooam 5/12 7:12am 5/1~ 7:33pm '5/12 8:59pm 5112 11:5Spm 5f13 2:10am 5/13 4:34am Location Hale House Restroom · · Vanclalism~brciken.glass Fiel<l house Forced en!fY into door Cdllege Center Vandalism/criminal mischief in restroom & lounge area Rathskellar Unauthorized entry. Students appreher~ded S&E Quad area Fox Loading Dock Si{Jma Chi Fraternity Parking complaint Parking complaint Disruptive bllhavior observed Si[Jma Chi Fraternity Vandalism to .eritrance door . Administration Bldg Vanclalism.:broken window All Night Stu.dy Vandalism t() college telEphone F()X House Vandalism to Men's Resrtoom, · Theft of money 8 property from vendingrnachine 5114 12:5~am . Webster House · Unde&irable/Vandallsm to lot!r'lge area (broken glass & trash I 5/14 3:25am SlgmaChiFratemity Fight betWeetl house brothers 5/14 4:14am Webster House Report of violent student Chinese Economist T,o Le:cture During Gam pus Visit· Twenty-One Stu.dents ···Represent Union At Research Conference By BECKY KOOPMANN David Greenlaw, Gerlinde a.nd 1\1IKI NOMURA Gukelberger, Rebecca Koopmann, Jennifer Kove, San Antonio, Texas, is . Sing-Yun Lee,' and Mike famous for the Alamo, Spanish . Nomura from Physics, and missions, and the scenic Winona Wigfall from Riverwalk. From April27-29, Sociology. Union had one of In the decade since the strut it was also the site of the Third the largest contingents of of ~conomic reform in China, National Conference on students at the Conference. that country's growth rate has Undergraduate Research The main purpose of the . . exceeded any other country in (NCUR). conference is to bring together . thle world. China's success has The conference was undergraduates from all been duein large part to a shift establisehd in 1987 to disciplines to share the results a\\~Y from central planning. reco.gnite under grad nate of their scholarly and creative and toward the use of free' students · for their reserach work. According to Michael · ma.rkets to guide economic · achievements. Union was well Doyle, Chairman of the Third activity. represented at the first two NCUR, \NCUR is a According to Prof. Bruce conferences, ,both held at the celebration of the undergraduate Re:ynolds, who is teaching a UniversJty of North Carolina scholarly life.\ Research is a ClOuse this term on the. Chinese in Ashville. The third NCUR valuable part of the e;conomy, an important secret was hosted by Trinity undergraduate education. It ()f China's successful reforms University, a small college provides :the opportunity for is this: the government has (2500 students) in San students to interact directly ·. aJl<>wed entrepreneurship to Antonio. This year's title was 1 ·with professors in their field. lJlossom in rural areas. in the EUREKA, an acronym for Students often learn more from f<>rm of \township and village Excellence in Undergraduate research than from coursework. imdustry.\ These small-scale, Research: Experience., Research allows a student to ex]JOrt-oriented factories have Knowledge, and Achievement. pursue a specific problem by grown four times as fast as .the Participants from 46 States combining and applying ofd,...fashioned, state-owned .and Puerto Rico attended, theories learned in class. One illdustry in cities.. representing . over 300 of the most exciting aspects of 'Tonight, a visiting Chinese · institutions and 20 academic undergraduate research is the pr()fessor will elaborate on this . disciplines. 634 students . opportunity to study interesting phenomenon. Prof. · presented posters or talks: 369 something no one has ever Wuwei Li, from the Academy 1 in the natural sciences, 143 in studied before and perhaps add a of Social Sciences in · the social sciences, 82 · in little to scholarly. knowledge. Shanghai, is spending a year in • humanities, and 40 in Attending a conference . the U.S. as a visiting scholar, engineering. Among the ·, heightens this sense of · . most recently at Amherst. His presenters were 21 Union c o n t rib u t i o n an d .. taJk, entitled \Township students Beth Landseidel, I_ accomplishment. For the Enterprise: China's Secret Robert Stoltz, and Chris presenters, it was a rewarding Reform Strategy,\ is sponsored Villani from Biology, Steffani and memorable experience. l>;r the Department of Larios, Kris LoParo, Robin Union students will have a Economics. Miller, Diane Piasecki, and unique Opportunity to The· talk will be held in Beni Wolf from Chemistry. participate in NCUR next year iRocm 104, Social Sciences Scott Fisher, John McQueen, when Union College will host Jluilding. at 6:00 Thursday, Kim Quirk, and Laurie Richard . NCUR-90 from April 19-21. May 18, and is open to the from Economics, Benedikt The trip to San Antonio was ]lublic. Blunschi. Laszlo Borozcky. funded by an IEF grant. Thanks LWuti ~®rro ©®aU®~® ~ OO?®tru!k@[f@) Present John Roarke \IMPRESSIONIST;' Upper Class Dining Hall c.c. 8 P.M. Friday, May 19 FREE FOOD FREE ADMISSION SUMMER/PART TIME JOBS • Math tutor needed, 2 nights per week, for the end of May to the beginning of June, to tutor for a final exam. In the local area. ~ • Troy B()ys Club has summer positions open at Camp Barket,located in Rensselear County. • The .Lighthouse. New York Association for the Blind, is looking for students for various positions. Located in New Jersey. • Schenectady Branch of the Troy Savings Bank needs a teller for a part time position this summer. • Guilderland Town Department is looking. for an Engineering Assistant this summer to help with draftitlg and design. **FOR MORE INFORMATION ON THESE JOBS AND MORE, COME TO THE CDC. go to the advisers who devoted time and energy to the research projects. Special thanks go to Professors Peak and Werner, who organized the trip and accompanied the group. Concordiensis apologies for the misleading headline introducing last week's article on Lee Hamilton, the sche- duled speaker for Commencement ex- ercises. It has been brought to our atten- tion that Hamilton should not be re- ferred to as con- servative but rather he should be referred to as \non -contro- versial\. The head- line's intent was to indicate a conser- vative 9hoice by the College in retrospect· to last year's · sp.eaker, Peter Grace.

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS };f(ly 18, 1989 Congratulations! 1989-1990 Student Forum Junior Trustee ~J '91 Mark Ric:btc~r V .P. Ad·ministration \{!l' ~-~~ Preside lit David- Cohen Academics ........ , ..... _ Schulitz · '90 Berliner '91 CLASS OF 1990 REPRESENTATIVES Vice 'President Treasurer Lisa Arcbabald David Adinolfi Brian MC)ss CLASS OF 1991 REPRESENTATIVES President Vice President Drew Ward Jack Markis CLASS OF 1992 REPRESENTATIVES President Vice President Treasuret Jon Lennon Aram Fuchs A Plateful of Questions Discussion Series Presents This Week's Question: \How Is Racism. Your Problem Too?\ Tuesday, May 23 12:00 - 12:45 Please bring your lunch! 4th Floor Lounge of the College Center All Are Welcome! Schaffer Library .. · Extended Hours Monday, May 29 - .Wednesday, June 7 ' The Library will be open · from 11 p.m. t() l .a.m. for studying only · No circuTating ()t reserve materials will be- charged out, No reference desk services. Please help us to keep food and drink res1ricted · · to the All Nigllt Study area. Thank y()u.. . Wendy Endress 'Fhe Class of '89 raised approximately $3,500 in our Senior Gift Drive. The Class of '89 sponsored a Senior Ball ' wb.en an event such as· this • hadn't been spansored in several years. The Class of '89 · had over 300 people in . attendance at our Senior Dinner last week. The Class of '89;, which has already illustrat~d commitment to Union, is graduating in a few short weeks, and will be entering the Donna · · · . lanzehdo:rf I · am · intereS:ted in • : representing you · ·On the ' · Alumni -Coundl. · The;· Council's role ultiinately, is to· .· influence the College in its , decisions; both financial and: . poUcy. The' active iUtercha.nge< • of ideas ~nd conceros can, best .· be met thrmJ.gh the • ' involvement of committed: individuals who have l:leen a. pan of Union. · ranks o{ the Alumni of Union College. No one will forget As an undergraduate, I llave • Union or the people that we had the opportunity to catch a · · met here, and maintaining glimpse ef same of tllese . contact with Union c;:an be all decision making processes. · · important part of our 'Life Like many, I have ·molded my · After Union'. efforts into trying to make. Class of '89 Alumni Council Union a.better place to be. As ReJ)resentatives, through · graduates, our efforts to sliape committee work and periodic our institution are even more Council meetings provide wo~y of a listening ear. important input, on behalf of our class, into the Colleg~ decision making process. In addition. the representatives remain in contact with our class as they plan our ftrs~ and five-year Re-Unions~ As Senior . 'Trustee and through· my involvement in various other organizations, I've had the· It is my hope to remain a committed part of this insdtution, and ~o lend my . concerted effort to insure its bettennentl woultl be honored to fulfill our Alumni council · position, if so selected. chance to illustrate my ..------------.. commitment to Union College. I would like the opportunity to continue to :reptesent our class as an Alumni Council . Representative. Please exercise your right to vote tommorrow! VOTEI CLASS OF '89 Alumni Council Representative Run-Off Elections • Monday, May 22, 1989 ®jg!NJH@IN® \\J@Jrjg~ Congratulations to Josh Waldman! . ALL GRADUATING SENIORS WITH COLLE.GE LOANS (NDSL/Perkins, UC Gen, Swope, Ryder, Nelson, Schaffer) You must see Mrs. Mitchell BEFORE Graduation ....•... College Center Auditorium May 30, 31 & June 1 10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m. ALL questions answered about loans .•.. grace periods payments deferments -

.l .. --~i ... --;.~ .. _ .. ,.-f' ..... ·~·~·-~-]'\· . ·cONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 NOTT MEMORIAL WEEK May 22 - 26 May- 22 .. · To.ur of the Nott Mem.orial with elected- officials and community leaders at the Nott Memorial at 1 PM. May 23 - Lecture on the Nott Memorial \'The Nott Memorial: Another Time Around?'' by Mr. John Mesick, architect who performed the -1973 Historic Structure R~port.­ College Center Room 410 at 8 PM. May 24 - Lecture on the N ott Memorial - ''Significance of Round Buildingst' by Professor Daniel Robbins, Professor of .the Arts Department. College Center Room 410 at 8 PM. May 25 - Lecture on. the Nott Memori~l­ - _''Symbolism of the Nott Memorial\ by Professor Carl George, Professor of the Biology Department. College Center Room 410 at 8 .PM. May 22 · 26 Library Exhibit on the Nott Memorial at Schaffer Library. Enjoy in the promotion of the N ott Memorial's heritage during the week of events. Presented by The Restore the Nott Student lnitative NOTICE: Due to the_apathy of some students and the exertive pressure of others, the 1875 Initiative will not b.e hosting Nott Day. It is unfortunate that the entire Union community will be. denied the opportunity to gain access to the Nott's third floor to view the dome from the inside. The 1875 Initiative encourages the community, however, to participate in the Restore the Nott's plethora of activities scheduled for next week. ' . ' Page 5

, Page 6 CONCORDJENSIS May 1.8:~ 191J9 . ·. ·- ~ .;;.. ., .. _ .. '~' . ,..,...., '\:: FEATURES' ·The Health And Fitness Column By JACQUELINE RANDAf.:L Calcium is considered one of the most important nutrients. Unfortunately, most of our diets lack in this essential nutrient. Calcium is needed to build our bones and teeth. In fact, about 98% of the calcium in our body is in the bones, 1% in our teeth and the remaining 1% is in the tis sues throughout tile body. On average, we carry around 3-4 pounds of calolllm. All of us have hormones to maintain a constant level of calcium in our blood and in other body fluids. It is important to have a steady supply of calcium to aU our nerves and muscle cells. Calcium is essential for muscle The Image Of Fraternities And Sororities On Campus By DESMOND WARD A little history: In 177 6 the Phi Beta Kappa society, a social and literary organization, was granted a charter at the College of William and Mary. While formed for literary purposes and encouraging composition and oratory, the Phi Beta Kappa society had many of the traditions that . social fraternities still have today. The formation of the first social fraternity, the Kap.pa Alpha Society, was fostered here at Union in 1825. Two other fraternities, Sigma Phi and Delta Phi were also founded here to complete the \Union Triad\. Sororities had their origins al Wesleyan College, Macon, GA ·in 1851 with the formation of the Adelphian Society. This organization later became known as Alpha Delta Pi and is regarded as the firt women's sorority. Since the founding of the greek system at Union, fraternities and sororities around the world have contributed over 10 million dollars to charity. This year alone, almost all fraternities and sororities at Union have sponsored an event that raised money or made some contribution to the community. Alpha Delta Phi sponsored a Bloodmobile. Beta Theta Pi held a blood drive and were \Big Brothers\ in the Schenectady Big Brothers and Big Sisters program. Delta Delta Delta rctised money for the American Cancer Society with the \Jail'n Bail\ game. Delta Phi contributed money to the United Way raised by a volleyball tournament. Kappa Alpha donates clothes and otb:er items to the Schenectady City Mission weekly. Psi Upsilon has raised. money for handicapped children by raising money throtigh a billiards tournament. The list goes on. Other fraternities and sororities have made significant contributions SlLCh as these. · · Sfrice Will Keirn's speech on.:, \Demythologi::iing the Animal House Image;\ people have inqnired ab()ut the greek's responsibilities to Union and the community. It is evident that they do m.ore than provide· the social life for half the students in tile school. It has been hard to overcome the \animal house\' image, but here at Union, the response to charity drives has been gratifying for both the college and the students. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION · \1400 16th Street NW, washington, DC 20036·2266 relaxation and helps to regulate the-heart beat. · If our body seems deficient in calcium amounts, a particular set of hormone~ removes some calcium from our bones. If our body i& consistently short of caicium (this is a particular problem for women), this may cause rickets in children and osteoporosis ill adults. Around 20 yearss of age, many women begin t<> lose calcium from their bones .. This process continues and accelerates after menopause and can result in a weakening and shortening of the bones. This also increases the possibility of bone fractures. Obviously our bones hold up our bedies. Also as important, our bones serve as a \bank\ for calcium, Calcium is contained in the blood in small amounts (around 10mg/100m) of blood. If this ratio changes at all. the body adapts by correcting it. Calcium is involved in different systems to maintain the proper blood-calcium level Cafcium is involved in maintaining cell membranes, blood clotting, absorption of B 12 and activation of enzymes. Varying dietary intake 'Of calci11m barely affects our . calcium level. But, a deficiency of calcium casued by a failure of the body to maintain a proper concenttation,.'can cause symptoms of muscle cramps,. joint pains, tQeth decay, inability to relax, hypersensitivity to pain and a tendency to h.emorrage. Dietary calcium has a very minor effect on its Mood concentration. Besides c.alcium itself, many other factors may affect the amount and level of this mineral in out body. For example, Vitamin D is needed for calcium to be absorbed through the intestinal tract. Other vitamins, such as Vitamin C and Vitamin A, are known to improve calcium absorption, Other factors such as eating an overabundance of fatty foods or eating too much protein can interfere with calcium absorption. Also, lounging around in front of the TV can lead to a loss of calcium; exercise is indispensible in helping our bodies absorb calcium. Many women in college go on .some form of diet. Most of these diets call for a decrease in dairy consumption. This may lead to a minor calcium deficiency and can cause brittle nails and minor hair loss. Studies show that calcium defjciencies can· be traced to the , ~videspread substituti~n of soft drinks (diet coke) fon:rrilk. Our recommended daily calcium intake is 1,200 milligrams- (equivalent to four 8 oz .. sewings of milk or. yogurt). Calcium is needed during periods of growth-- childhood;, adolescence,. pregnancy and lactation. Calcium is found in many dairy products. Yet,. there are many nondairy sources of calcium including: shrimp, clams, oysters, cod, chick peas, ct>Hard greens, broccoli, peas, cabbage, spinach, sesame seeds, oatfla:kes, brown rice; figs, and eggs. Vegetables, especially green and white hard vegetables contain calcium in larger volume, often more than milk products. Calcium deficiency is not just the result of taking in insufficient amounts of calcium. It is also caused by overeating and miscombining foods. An interesting study showed that calcium may prevent recurrences of herpes. So: .• don't just run to the frig and drink a quart of milk. Calcium is plentiful in many other sources. Please direct your questions and comments to Box 1993. What Will Yo.u Do With Your Cap And Gown? By KRISTIE ARNHOLD To keep with the tradition ()f my senior-type complaints, we must·discuss the cap and goWil conttoversey. Approximately 500 Union students per year purchase a cap and gown. Of those 500, who do yo11 suppose actually wears the111 again? Personally, I can think: . of several occasions where I could wear mine, but for those not as creative as myself, what can te done? I have thought of a few things that one can do . with his/her .cap and gown after graduation. After all, this is no cheap piece of clothing we're talking about here, one should be ·able to put it to use more than once. Possibility #l: Drive out to see your aunt and uncle inNew Jersey next June wearing your cap and gown. They probably won't remember how old you are or if you graduated last year. They will write you a che~k on sight. Possibility #2: Get your local tailor to cut the top off and tum it into one of those irritating strapless gowns. Possibility #3: Cut it in half and give it to your little sister for a finger painting smock. Possibility #4: When your mother is pressuring you to get a job, put on your cap and gown and she will cry her heart out like .she did on June ll, and forgive you. Possibility #5: Force your son or daughter to attend Union and he or she won't have -to buy one. Possibility #6: Scholarly maternity wear. . Possibility #7: When you become famous one day, sell it to a greedy fan for $5,000. Possibility #8: _Use your entrepreneurial skills; take several from those who have no use for them and sell them for $40 apiece to the class of 1990. Possibility #9: Use it instead of kindling; its fine polyester fiber makes it extremely flanunable. Possibility , #10: Assuming that your living · room is some shade of gloomy black, do a reverse Scarlet O'Hara. Tum your cap and gown into a marvelous set of drapes with tassles-- memories of Union will always be with you. AWARD WINNER: .Justin Wilcox of Saratoga Springs Senior High School won the statewide poster contest of the New York State Council on Alcoholism. The theme was: \Alcohol Advertising: Fact or Fiction.\ In the Unit~d States there ar-e 4CO deo+bs -~ ~k' 0::;8 every ....:ee~~. I. , ALCOHOL ADVERTISING: FACT OR FICTION? ~,~~~~ .. w ac ju e ac b~ in rtl Ul he hi Yl th E vi ' 1 1

.. .. CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1'989 Page 7 FEATU.RES· Restore The Nott: Eliphalet: Th·e Man and His Memorial Nott A Disease· By JILL PUJLIPPS Restore The N ott Student Initiative Eliphalet Nott (1777-1866) was a man of many accornplishrnents other than just being President Gf Union College for 62 years. His ac,hievetn(:mts reflect his background. · He was born on a small farm in Ashford, Connecticut. His mother provided his education vntil the age of 8, when he left home to live and study with his brother, Samuel, for' 10 years. His brother Samuel was the person who impressed upon Eliphalet Nott his reltgious views. At age 21, he became the school.master of the Franklin School in Connecticut. There, he managed the school successfully devoid of strJct rules and scheduled ac.tivities. In 1791, he left that school and became the !IJ.:ead ef the Plainfield Academy which at that time was a. very renowned scneol,. and soon to become one of the mast successful acadetnies ill tltat state. After spendEng 2 successful: years at 'the Plainfield Academy, E. No()tt decided to go into ministry. And in 1795, he entered the Odll~ge of Rhode Island and received a degree of Master of the Arts. In the summer of 1796, E. Nott went to New York with the intenti(')ll of starting Congregational churches there. hi Schenect~tdy, he met President John B .. Smith, wb.o brought him i:nto contact with Union Col1ege. He remained in Schenectady because he.1iked the fact that ,people there practiced the same religion as his own. Instead of spreading CongregationaJ churches, as originally planned, he settled there and became a Presbyterian minister. After 2 years as a minister, he became a successful principal of Cherry Valley Academy in Schenectady. Then in 1798, Nott moved to the ,firs.t and most influential Presbyterian Church in Albany. There, he was recognized for bis unique and extraordinary ].')reaching skills. After serving 6 years as pastor of the Presbyterian Church of Albany, his concern in sectarian ma.tters, and theological orthodoxy eventually faded, as he ~urned more toward: politics. He . possessed strong feelings for education, which were apparent in his leaderhip as trustee. :Between 1801-04, he became . Trustee for Union Colilege,. attended many board meetings; served in 14 other trustee committees, as well as becoming an active memlJer of the Temperance Movement. With this unique background filled with experience in educ~tional matters, Nott became Union College's folfrtll president in 1804. Here are just a mere sample of his accomplishments during his reign as president at Union College. Along with being responsible for the construction of the Nott Memorial, be developed a system of elective courses and established science and engineering at Union. He : was instrllmenta1 in buying the land that Union presently sits on and having famous French architect Joseph Jacques Ramee design. the central part of campus. including the concept of a central building, which ·became the Nott Memorial. Unioa College became financially stable and grew in size during his presidency. An otlter interesting accomplishment was the invention of the new anthracite burning stove which was not only used for homes, but for ~;teamboats as well. Truly, Eliphalet Nott was a historically important person and is deserved of the recognition of the Central Building of Union CoHege being rnemorial tQ him and his accomplishments. Tenure By DEBBIE BEAUDY Have you ever wondered what happens to · those - profess..or evaluations sheets that we, as students, are required to fill out at the end of each term? Believe it or not, they do serve a useful purpose. They help to determine whe¢-er or not a professor at Union College will receive tenure. The process itself is very complicated and laborious -- but necessarily so -- for once a professor is granted tenure at Union, he or she is, barring extreme e.xtenu a ting circumstanes, here to stay. In order to be tenurable, ·a person must bear the title of either professor or assistant professor, ancl must have six years of teacbi:ng experience at Union. At the end of this time, the professor's departmental head sends a resume and a recommendation for tenurabitity · to Dean Underwood, who along with the Faculty' Review Board, can approve or '<iisapprove the recommendation. This board consists of several chosen faculty m~mbers, Dean Underwood~ Dean of Faculty, and Dean Sc:h.adler, Dean of Graduate a11d Continuing We've won Wimbledon, US Open French Open ... hut now th() hottest event o.n the tour is: UNION MIXED DOUBLES TOURNAMENT ON SATURDAY, MAY 20th ,, Follow the champs· advice and sign up NOW! Call Lakshmi at x4467 or Amy at x4365 to enter. Students and faculty are welcome. Prizes awarded from Ben and Jeny's, Radio Shack, Goldstocks, Leeder's Video, Fot!r Season's, Friendly's; Gershon's, Open Door, Graubart Jewler's, 'The New England Fudge Co., & the Bookstore. This event is sponosred by the Intramural Dept., Fireside, Bruegger's, Film Committee. Deadline for entries .. Thursday, May 18th Studies. If the .professor's tenurability is approved, Dean UnderWood appoints an \ad hoc\ committee consisting of four people specially chosen for that particular persbn. This is the group that does most of the work in determining whether or not a professor is worthy of tenure. This is where we come in. Student opinion -- usually in the form of those evaluation sheets -- is one of the three general categories taken into consideration. The ad hoc committee chooses three different people from three different universities who are experts in the exact field of study of the candidate. These people evaluate any written and/or published work or projects that the professor has undertaken in his/her years at Union. Taken intO account as well, are the opinions of the Faculty Review Board . participation in the college community by a vote of either excellent, very ~ood, good, or less than good. In order t() obtain tenure, a person must receive either a very good or an excellent for teaching ability and scholarship .. Less stress is placed on college participati(:)1l. Other factors taken into account are a candidate's potential contribution to the Union community, the structure of hisf:her department, and the financial aspects cf , his/her appointment. After much review the two committees produce a decision. If positive, tile recommendation is put down in writing by either Dean Underwood or President Morris. The President has tbe power to disagree with the final decision. The last step is the final recommendation of the candidate to the Academic Affairs Council of the Board of Trustees. security and \academic freedom\ to the professor, it \does not guarantee ... subsequent promotion or salary increments.\ (p. 6 Union · College Tenure Plan.) Salary ine:reases are u.sed as further incentive to promote higher levels of scholarship and insttuction after a professor has mad~ tenure. According to Dean Underwood, Union College believes that \few people can be effective for thirty years of teaching if they haven't produced extracurricular work which has been evaluated by peers.\ The need to maintain \the intellectual edge\ is all important in the Union community. It is firmly believed that research does not detra.ct from teaching, but, in fact, -enhances it. The process through which a candidate achieves tenure cannot be taken too seriously, and must be done with care, becauiie, quite literally, once a perso11 achieves tenure, he's From these sources the candidate is judged for his/her teaching ability, scholarship (or outside projects), and Although tfle purpose of tenure is to promote a sense of . here for life. The Union College Chapter of Amnesty International weekly meetings - Tuesday @ 7:00 pm RM 409 - College .center Everyone is Welcome! \It is better to light on candle than to curs~ the darkness\ THE IDEA OF TURNING ANIARCTICA INI'O' A WORLD PARK IS FOR THE BIRDS. When some people first hear about our plan to twn the South Pole into a World Park, they think we've been out in the snow too long, But then we tell them some- really crazy. how some count:J.ies like to drill for oil there. ·In spite of the fact that long winters and dangerous ice· bergs could keep an oil spill spewing for months. And how others wou1d like to strip mine for minerals on a continent so unrenewable a single footprint 'Will last for over ten years. And how still others would like to harvest the 'seas in an ecosystem that's as delicate as a baby ·penguin. But with your support we could stop that cold. Greenpeace has already collected a million signattrres in favor of preserving Antarctica as a World Park. Make a donation. Let's keep .Antarctica as pure as snow. GREEI\TPEACE l436 U Street, Washington, DC 20009 '• . ' ,'(•

Page 8 CONCQRDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Senior Crosstalk Presents Union College: Was the Investment Worth it? Wednesday, May 25, 8:00 .p.m. Co !lege Center Atrium Do. you like to travel? Plan an:d organize trips? The Traveling ·Club has posU:ions available for ·• 1989-1990. Contact Mn. Marra in the Student Activ>if·ies Office (CC408.) x6ll8 if you are in.teres:ted. GOOD NEWS!! The Department of Modem Languages and The Russian Club presents: Foreign language news programs will be ·shown in the Language Lab (HU 010) until the end ofSpring term. All are welcome to attend. MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, & FRIDAYS: GERMAN FRENCH SPANISH TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: CHINESE JAPANESE RUSSIAN Sckedule: 2:00.PM 3:00PM 4:00PM 2:00PM 3:00PM 4:00PM SCARECROW A Look at Life Through the Eyes of ·young Soviet Teens (In Russian with English subtitles) May 23rd at 7:00 in CC 406 All Welcome! Other languages are available on tape. Trois Hommes et un couffin (Three M(en and .a Baby, French authentic version!) (1986) by Coline Serreau with Roland Giraud,. Michel Boujenah and Andre Dussolier Monday May 22, 1989 at 7 p.m. in the Mobile Lounge in the College Center . (CC406) in French with English subtitles sponsored by the French Club ATTENTION Students interested in CHINESE And JAPANESE languages! The Modem Languages Department offers beginning courses in both languages that are · open to all students, not only those going on Terms Abroad. Come and try these exciting languages! P .S. All language courses are card courses; be sure to sign the lists. You will need a card to register. The First Annual Hispanic Heritage Week Committee -- at Union College presents: \Latin Dance\ featuring: ' . ' \ALEX TORRES Y LOS REYES LATINOS\ .... :,. ·~ (salsa, merengue, club, and more ... ) Saturday, May 20, 1989 9-PM-2AM Old Chapel, Union College General Admission: $5.00 Union. Students: $4.00 For more information call Tony at (518) 377.-7659 - .... :..:~ ~~ ~.~ ~~ ~~--....... \. ~·\'......__ .........._...,--.,_ ~---- ~---- ,~.-....;,..~ ............... '\-~~ . . ., . '

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Senior Crosstalk Presents Union College: Was the Investment Worth it? Wednesday, May 25, 8:00 p.m. College Center Atri urn Do. you like to travel? Plan and o·rganize trips? The Traveling Club has positions availabl·e fo·r · 1989-1' 990. Contact .Mrs. Mana in the Student Activities Office (CC408) x6118 if yo·u ore interested. GOOD NEWS!! Th D f M d r,·l'.· · e · epartment o · . o ern Languages and The Russian Club presents: Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 0 1 0) until the end of Spring term. All are welcome to attend. MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS, & FRIDAYS: GERMAN FRENCH SPANISH TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: CHINESE JAPANESE RUSSIAN Schedule: 2:00PM 3:00PM 4:00PM 2:00PM 3:00PM 4:00PM SCARECROW A Look at Life Through the Eyes of Young Soviet Teens (In Russian with English subtitles) May 23rd at 7:00 in CC 406 All Welcome! Other languages are available on tape. Trois Hommes et un couffin (Three Men and a Baby~ French authentic version!) ( 1986) by Coline Serreau with Roland Giraud, Michel Boujenah and Andre Dussolier Monday May 22, 1989 at 7 p.m. in the Mobile Lounge in the College Center (CC406) in French with English subtitles sponsored by the French Club ATTENTION Students interested in CHINESE And JAPANESE languages! The Modem Languages Department offers beginning courses in both languages that are open to all students, not only those going on Terms Abroad. Come and try these exciting languages! P.S. All language courses are card courses; he sure to sign the lists. You will need a card to register. The First Annual Hispanic Heritage Week Committee at Union College presents: ''Latin Dance\ featuring: \ALEX TORRES Y LOS REYES LATINOS\ (salsa, merengue, club, and more ... ) Saturday, May 20, 1989 9 PM- 2 AM Old Chapel, Union College General Admission: $5.00 Union Students: $4.00 For more information call Tony at (518) 377-7659

- CONCORDIENSlS M4y 18, 1989 Page 9 SCIE.NC;E & TECHNOLO.GY .. - - . Great Blue H·erons Indicate Environmental Instability :By KEVIN GARDNER Science & Tech Editor Every year environmentalists and birders (bird-watchers) flock to Vancouver Island in Canada to abserve and enjoy the hatching of a new generation of great blue herons. Great blue herons ate known to bird- watohersand environmentalists as magnificant, stoic. and peaceful birds; a symbol {)f serenity and a wonder for the human to behold. In 19-87 no eggs hatched on Vancouve:r Island. Instead of damp baby herons squirming and crying for a meal, the large nests of the great blue's contained only broken egg shells. The Canadian Wildlife Service had been monitoring the colony of birds as part ·of a study on pollutants in the environment. The wildlife service found that dioxin was responsible for the death of thiS: whole generation of great 'blue's. Since the great blue heron is at .the top of the aquatic food chain, virtually all of the pollutants in the enviro11ment end up in the - herons. Pollutants do not just go away if you put them into the environment. If you dump wastes such as dioxin in the ocean, 11ley will be taken up by plankton, shellfish, fish, and the like; When the .great blue's indulge in a fine cuisine of, say, fresh salmon and maybe a mussel or two, the pollutatnts will :be tansferred. to the heron. There turned out to be two sources of the dioxin. One is a local . paper mill which produces the dioxins as a by- product .of :the manufactw:ing process. The second is wood prservatives used by the lumber companies which abound in Britisll Columbia. This problem is a small example of many such hazards. Other examples include DDT, PCB 's, and Agent Orange. All are synthetic organics that do net degrade readily. Scientists s:peculate that if tested, virtually all Americans would contain residues of DDE, which is a by-product of DDT, even though DDT was outlawed in A.inerica over 20 years ago. The great bllle heron is an indicator species. This means that its demise should serve as a warning tbat something is seriously wrcng in the :environment. The great blues of Vanc011Ver Island point out to Canada that something is WFOJ)g, And this is just the tip of the iceberg. Throaghout the world there are over 60,000 different chemicals being produced, of which !l majority will eventually end up in the environment. It1 the case of chemicals that are potentially hazardous, it should not be \innocent un.til proven guilty\ but vice versa. In a sense, we are conducting a massive experiment in toxicology, with the earth as OUI laboratory. The great blue's in Canada just gave us some ofour results. . Talk set on 'Two Problems of Intellectual Property' . • Schenectady, NBY. (May 4) -- Arthur Kuflick, a · ··philosophy professor at the University of Vermont, will . . · speak at Union College on ''Organisms and Algoritluns: · •. Two Problems of Intellectual Property't at 3:15 p.m. • Friday, May 19, in Humanities Building Room 213 for· · the Department of Philosophy's Winter/Spring Term Colloquia. The talk is open. to the public. Psychology Clu,b 0000@. Wed. May 24th 5:00 - 7:00 Jackson Gardens Free Food & Music All Psych. Students and Faculty welcome Raindate Thurs.. 25th SPECIAL CLASS IN CHI KUNG - Chinese breathing . exercises for activating vital (chi) energy, which is essential in the martial arts and healing .. Dr. Wang Sheng Qui from China will teach a two-part class on Cbi Knng on Tuesday, May 23, and Tuesday, May 30, from 4 P.M. to 5 P.M. in the Exercise Room of Alumni gym. The total cost for both classes is $6 for students, and., $12 for non ... students. These class~s are open to · everyone on campus and open to the public. For more · . information contact Linda Patrik at 370-6340. · The College Baml Rssaciation held it's 1st Hnnual Spring Tournament last mondag. The minniDg team of: David Sachar P .J. Andrejkovies .Cathy Lee Donald Valerio Alternate: Neil Grodsky Won the 1st place prize qf $100 •

! !, J CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 P'age 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Great Blue Herons Indicate Environmental Instability By KEVIN GARDNER Science & Tech Editor Every year environmentalists and birders (bird-watchers) flock to Vancouver Island in Canada to observe and enjoy the hatching of a new generation of .great blue herons. Great blue herons are known to bird- watchers and environmentalists as magnificant, stoic, and peaceful birds; a symbol of serenity and. a wonder for the human to behold. In 1987 no eggs hatched on Vancouver Island. Instead of damp baby herons squirming and crying for a meal, the large nests of the great blue's contained only broken egg shells. The Canadian Wildlife Service had been monitoring the colony of birds as part of a study on pollutants in the environment. The wildlife service found that dioxin was responsible for the death of this whole generation of great blue's. Since the great blue heron is at the top of the aquatic food chain, virtually all of the pollutants in the environment end up in the herons. Pollutants do not just go away if you put them into the environment. If you dump wastes such as dioxin in the ocean, they will be taken up by plankton, shellfish, fish, and the like. When the great blue's indulge in a fine cuisine of, say, fresh salmon and maybe a mussel or two, the pollutatnts will be tansferred to the heron. There turned out to be two sources of the dioxin. One is a local paper mill whicb produces the dioxins as a by· product of the manufacturing process. The second is wood prservatives used by the lumber companies which abound i11 Brilish Columbia. This problem is a small example of many such hazards. Other examples include DDT, PCB's, and Agent Orange. All are synthetic organics that do not degrade readily. Scientists speculate that if tested, virtually all Americans would contain residues of DDE, which is a by-product of DDT, even though DDT was outlawed in America over 20 years ago. The great blue heron is an indicator species. This means that its demise should serve as a warning that something is seriously wrong in the environment. The great blues of Vancouver Island point out to Canada that something is wrong. And this is just the tip of the iceberg. Throughout the world there are over 60;000 different chemicals being produced. of which a majority will eventually end up in the environment. In the case of chemicals that are potentially hazardous, it should not be \innocent until proven guilty\ but vice versa. In a sense. we are conducting a massive experiment in toxicology. with the earth as our laboratory. The great blue's in Canada just gave us some of our results. Talk set on 'Two Problems of Intellectual Property' Schenectady, NBY. (May 4) -- Arthur Kuflick, a philosophy professor at the University of Vermont, will speak at Union College on \Organisms and Algorithms: Two Problems of Intellectual Property't at 3: 15 p.m. Friday, May 19, in Humanities Building Room 213 for the Department of Philosophy's Winter/Spring Term Colloquia. The talk is open to the public. Psychology Club ®riD@ Wed. May 24th 5:00 .. 7:00 Jackson Gardens Free Food & Music All Psych. Students and Faculty welcome Raindate Thurs. 25th SPECIAL CLASS IN CHI KUNG - Chinese breathing exercises for activating vital (chi) energy, which is essential in ·the martial arts and healing. Dr. Wang Sheng Qui from China . will teach a two-part class on Chi Kung on Tuesday, May 23, and Tuesday, May 30, from 4 P.M. to 5 P.M. in the Exercise Room of Alumni gym. The total cost for both classes is $6 for students, and $12 for non-students. These classes are open to everyone on campus and open to the public. For more information contact Linda Patrik at 370-6340. '*- ,,. Problem of the Week If tw& pe9ple want to share a lemonade, one way divide if fairly is for the f\'trst person to dwide it w}Utt :lpo~ like equal portions and then let the person choose which portion to take. How can . people share a le~nade fairly? COJllJ)&ratu:tati~ons to Peter Lambert, who correctly last w&ek 1 S problem of the week.. Bill Alli)rev, Michael Emmi., Jane Huange, Jesse Hull. · llan, · Wally K()l)h~ David Lai) Melisf;tt .Lo~ · .. , Mowry, D~as ~itt,.Rick Robert$> Lrndsey wenson, and Step'hante Young also s·ubm:itted 011l'e,e·t ·SO~iltd!Jil~,·~~·tltis ~bl!tn· SoJrut11tYns· ·. · ...... · ·~It{; £)e. §Qbm~~ed ro Loi~ ~ing in the .. · .... · '!F~t om~e 'betwe¢ti the honrs of .. a.m.·- 11 a.m.' lU!d 2 p.m. ~ 4 p.m., M()f!day ·. · . Friday. The first correct solution submitted :rU&·:m~~eilre'the·weeldy ten d'Ollar prize. C~ct otu1~orts will be post.ed on. the bulletin board <Jtttside The College Boml association held it•s ls1 Rnnual Spring Tournament last mondag. The minning team of: David Sachar P.J. Andrejkovics Cathy Lee Donald Valerio Alternate: Neil Grodsky Won the 1st place prize of $100.

Page 10 CONCO~DIE/t{SIS May 18, J!J89 IFnTZZ J]Jl!JGJJIT JLTUJJ))JLCO)WY J])A W ' ·: ~ ·. 1979 - ~-\\19'89 • c \A Decade Of ·Dryness\ The Meaning Behind The Day FIT·ZHU.·. GH LUDLOW . . . By SUZANNE SHAKER Features· Ed:itor Tomorrow marks tile tenth anniversary of Pi tzhugh Ludlow Day, which w:as created in 197~ by a group ofstudents who wanted to do s-omething for Union rather than for themselves. The original committ~e was. kept anonymous. Members could not list committee participation on their transcripts or resumes. The day was originally developed to achieve three main £Gals, First, to create a sense of Ci()mmunity amo n.g the faculty. administration, staff and students by pr()moting interaction between tile groups in a non-academic environment. Second, to encO'urage the entire college comm11nity to gather together and htve a good time. Third, to ins ti 11 a sense ()'f pride by reDecting on UniQJJ.•s unique history. Most importantly Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is to be non-alcoholic, net to be misiaterpreted as anti- alcollolic. U11fortunately the tradition and tbe original goals of the day are becoming lost. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is bec()ming another Camp Union. Many students, in fact, have gone out of t.beir way to \party\ and \drink\ even more on Fitzhugh Ludlow Day in spite of its noa·alcoholic aspect. There seems to be little school spirit or pride associated witb the day any more. \Having a good time\ has been misintetpreted to mean drinking ~to excess. Many students know Fitzhugh Ludlow only as a drug addict of tb..e 1800's. A graduate of_ the class of 1856, a · ptomirient ·literltl'y ·figure and author .of Union's alma mater, Fitzhugh Ludlow thoroughly_ enjoyed Union and was extremely proud to have lived and teamed here. Fitzhugh Ludlow was chosen to represent Unicn on this day because he appreciated and realized that great events take place at Union. We all should be as proud and as excited to be part of Union as he was. Fitzhugh Ludlow Day is a concept and the success or failure of tile day may determine how the administration vtill treat us in the future. 'This is our opportunity to show the administration that we are responsible and can responsibly celebrate being here at Union. La&t year lhe day after Fitzhugh Ludlow Day the campus was a disgrace. West beach was completely littered with empty cups and broken bottles. How can we possibly honor distinguished alumni on this day when our own behavior has strayed far from honorable? GS!Mfl wU~!JfJ@~ ~@ fJUD@[jj)fk !M!l~Q !Ml@flfl@ fl©fl @JUU ©fl 0D@[f fifJ@O{P) The FitzHugh Ludlow Committee would like to thank Prof. Thomas for all his help and 'dry' humor. DAY 1989 THURSDAY,. MAY 18th 1:00•4~00 T-Shirt Sales in Library Plaza 10:00-5:00 1:00-3:00 1:30-3:30 2:00 FRIDAY: .MAY 19th· ' ' . . . .. T,_Shirt Sales in Library Plaza Sh<>ot Yourself, Library Plaza. ,, Delta Gamma Olympics Library Field Jello Slide, West Side ofNott All Campus Photo, West Beach . 3:15 2:00-6:00. Bands: BLUES ALLEY & MIRACLE' LEGION at West Beach 4:30\-6:00 8:00 9:00 THINI SUN FOR TOMORROW Shoot Yourself or Your Friends FREE Campus Wide·BBQ! C{)median JOHN ROURKE U pperclass Dining Hall Sp()n.sored by Speaker's Forum Movie WORKING GIRL Library Plaza FHLD was formed to: 1) Cure Student Apathy 2) Create a s·ense of community between faculty, · administration &: students 3) To celebrate Union's history And Reme'mber, All This Can Be Done & BE FUN While Sober! in Library Plaza 1:0.0- 3:00 . -''

I t CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 FitzHugh Ludlow Day 1989: Honoring The Man By Which It Was Named Each year, Union College anxiously awaits the co:rning .of FitzHugh Ludlow Day. This year it has been decided that FitzHugh himself will be honored. Who was -this man who was quoted as calling Union \the pleasantest home of my life\? tbe first written work on drugs. FitzHugh himself was addic~d before entering college. He entered college at the age of 17. His whole life was a constant battle against drugs. FitzHugh Ludlow, a Kappa Alpha brother, graduated from Union with highest. literary honors as a poet with the class of 1856. A transfer student from Princeton, he lived with his brothers on the fourth floor of North College for his two FitzHugh was described by classmates as \brilliant m conversation, genial, generous to a fault.\ In New York City he studied law and entered the bar but never practiced. Instead he wrote for magazines such as the .Evening Post, Home Journal, and Harper'~ Bazaar, In 1870 his health had \ dramatically deteriorated years at Union. · Union's Alma Mater, \Ode to Old Union,\ has been sung at every commencement since 1856. This song, which we all know and sing proudly, is but one of the many poems and songs FitzHugh wrote about Union. He was a well rounded, dedicated writer with other interests too. The Hasheesh Eater (1857) was another of his masterpieces. It is known as because of his drug habit. He traveled to Switzerland in an effort to become healthier. It was a futile effort and on his 34th birthday, FitzHugh Ludlow died in Geneva, Switzerland. He was brought to Poughkeepsie, NY for burial. He always remembered Union fondly. and wrote to Professor Jonathan Pearson five years after he graduated, \Union has always been one of my idols.\ Song to Old Union by FitzHugh Ludlow Class of 1856 Let the Grecian dream .ofhis sacred stream, And sing of the brave adorning. That Phoebus weaves from his laurel leaves At the golden gate of Morning: But the brook that bounds through Old Union's grounds Gleams bright as the Delphic' water, · And a prize as fair as a gOd may wear, Is a dip from our Alma Mater! Chorus Then here's to thee, the brave and free, Old Union smilirlg o'er us, _And for many a day, as their walls grow gray. May they ·ring with their children's chorus. Could out praises throng on the waves of song. Like an Orient fleet gem-bringing. we would bear to thee the argosy. And crown thee with peals of singing: But thy smile beams down beneath a crown Whose glory asks no other. We gather it not from the green sea-grot - 'Tis the love we bear our mother! Chorus Let the joy that falls from the dear old walls, Unchanged brave Time's on-darting. And our only tear falls once a year On hand that clasp ere parting: And when other throngs shall sing thy songs, And their spell once more hath bound us, Our faded hours shall revive their flowers, And the past shall live around us. May 19, 1989 It's Nott History FitzHugh . Through The Years By W. T. SMYTHE I was about to begin my annual columm with the usual .. FitzHugh bong story, when I discovered a poem written by . W.T.I. Smythe, winner of the . Bailey Cup in 1882, which · gave me pause. The lines that concern me are: FitzHugh Ludlow had no bong, He was straight, all day long .. Right. '- Being the sarcastic soul that I am, I'm not sure just how to interpret this poem. So, I thought I would skip the bong story and get down to real history. Some random thoughts on- ten years of FitzHugh Ludlow Day, an event that proves that time flies when you are having fun. It all began ten years ago when Mary Mattimore and some of her friends decided to attack sagging student morale (we had just been ~ough the hockey scandals) with a special day, organized by an anonymous committee, that would promote pride in Union by focusing on College history. The day was to be dry, not that the committee was anti-alcohol (good grief, far from it), but to prove that people could have fun sober. And so we met endlessly in the old Pub in a building we were once·allowed to call Carnegie. On April Zl. 1979, the first First FitzHugh Ludlow Day occurred. John Morris made his first appearance on campus as president that very same day. And it was dry, more or less. Over the years, we have brought you· lots of slogans, my favorites being: \We do it liberally three times a year.\ \Union's for athletes, Union's fer scholars, A five- star attraction for ten thousand dollars.\ \A Union of People\ For about eight years, we wanted to use \Do a Line for FitzHugh\ but we weren't sure if Prezmo would Catch on. You decide. We brought you rides (but never bumper cars, which I always wanted) and fireworks (which were my favorite thing, despite the fact that one night we almost burned down University Place). Ever since the jello (red) from the jello fight almost didn't disintegrate until graduation, we have stuck to the jello slide (green), which only stains people. You could \shoot yourself\ and watch movies which, given our budget, you had probably seen twenty times before. The tee shirts were usually above par, but there were a couple that gave Lorraine lots of ammunition for her annual garage sale. And we've had a lot of Figi bands, many of which tended to be smaller than Figi beers. Over the years, the committee has changed its meeting locations. We started in Carnegie, moved to Smythe House (a fraternity for independents), where one ridiculous night we were seen assembling big wheels with water-and-tonics in hand (I forget what the point of the big wheels was), then to 700 South (where relics of the day remain), and eventually returned to the FitzHugh Ludlow College Center. Every year, we worried about Page 11 the weather. Fortunately, it has never rained on FitzHugh· Ludlow Day-- since the day is dry -- but an awful lot of Tanqueray has fallen from the sky. How else do you think that the committee could have gotten through the whole thing? PrezMo, MsMo, JoeMo, Lorraine, and Ruth Anne have been very supportive and deserve lots of thanks, as do the hundreds of students who have done so much over the years. FirtzHugh thanks you all. All right, all right. One bong story, since you insist. It has recently been discovered that in the infamous Smythe House fire, which unleashed FitzHugh's bong on the campus and caused the Nott to be built (See Concordiensis FHL Day 1987), a smaller . bong also rolled off the front ·porch and lleaded in a different direction. Landing on the site of the Administration Building, it 'shattered, thus providing the beams for the building. Unfortunately, this historical accident is impeding technological improvements on campus. Although it is a \\ell known fact that Presid.;>nt Morris would like t0 air condition the Administr:ni~\n Building, Keith Beams ~ \\ h(1m PrezMo recently named Campus Architect. noting. cryptically, -\If you can't l1cat 'em, join 'em\) refuses to allow him to do so. Air conditioning causes nineteenth century beams to disintegrate, says Beams. It's Nott history. See you next year for number eleven.

Page 12 CONCORI)IENSIS May 1~, 1989 Iff ~ • w.JIDillf v ttttStB Founded at Union College 1877: ---- The D·eterioration Of The Conc.ept In 1979 a day was created upon which all of the college community was to practice sobriety. That day is tomorrow, May 19, FitzHugh Ludlow Day. The original design of the day was to foster a sense of community, to instill a sense of pride, and above all else, to have a good time without the consumption of alcohol. Many students do not know this initial plan of the first FitzHugh Ludlow Day Committee. Upperclassmen certainly do not pass this on to freshmen. These goals even more certainly are not met. Here is a day with a budget of $8,000 specifically designed as a social alternative to those events dominated by drink. Here is a day . offering· op:portanities for students to be social and mix, not only with their peers, but with faculty and administrators, as well. The day incl~des hal\dS, a bar-b-que, a comedian, an outdoor movie, the all- campus photo, and more. Ts it necessary to drink at any of these events? Should it not be the attitude of students to enjoy the day without a. beer in hand. This is not so. It is rather the attitude of sfudents that FitzHugh is just another excuse to get trashed. It is precisely this attitude that may jeopardize the existence of the celebration altogether. If we continue to treat this day as we treat any other day, what is the point of having it at all? It could tun into another Camp Union, which might not see many objections from students, but the loss of this tradition would be a sad occasion. Is it so difficult to spend the day alcohol-free? Have we no regard for tlle conunittee of '79 that we, now, as young adults believe ourselves incapable of achieving and, theref()Te, do not even strive for them. To what point has our social mentality evolved? There is a time for everything, and this day is a time to be dry. Ten years larger and this campus seems to be as dry as early spring in Schenectady. Safe Saves Sex Lives We must promote the use of condoms. We must practice safe sex, or perhaps even abstinence. We must protect ourselves against the risks of contracting AIDS. AIDS is the leading killer of men between the ages of 18 and 40 in New York State. It is estimated that through 1991, 200,000 Americans will have died from the AIDS Virus. High risk groups are not the only ones who need to take precautions. As college students we are highly susceptible to the HIV · infectiQn. Due to ·our community's sexual habits, greater sexual activity and greater likelihood of having several sexual partners, we need to confront the issue of AIDS. The rise in AIDS over the past year causes alarm. The number of homosexual men testing positive from the virus has increased 50% since last year. As well, the numbers of those testing positive has risen 63% in cases of heterosexual men and 77% in that of heterosexual women. Due to the long incubation period of the AIDS virus, students may be infected in college but tests will not reveal the presence of the virus for up to six months. Since symptoms may not be present in students until they leave college it is necessary for us to be educated. Practicing safe sex is the easiest way to protect oneself from getting AIDS. Condoms prevent the exchange of blood, semen and vaginal fluid which all can carry the AIDS virus. Oral sex also allows for the spread of infection. Every time we have sex withollt using a condom, we are risking our own lives. We can no longer shrug off the responsibility, we need to be aware of the risks and to take the necessary measures to protect ourselves. LET'TERS Union Continues to Overlook Gamma Phi Beta To the Editor: The Union College Panhellenic Council serves two major .functions for the college community. First, it is the unifying force for all sorority members. It attempts to meet the needs of sisters and pledges throughout the year .. Secondly, Panhellenic is the largest and perhaps the only representation of women on tlie Union campus. It is With this two- fold purpose that we, the Panhellenic Council, would like to address the issue of Greek housing. More specifically, we would like to address the right of Gamma Phi Beta to an on-campus house. The letter written 'by the IFC spoke of the traditions ~nd virtues which the Greek system has brought to. Union. As a Greek organization we share the same sentiments as the IFC. However. our argument on behalf of Gamma Phi Beta focuses more directly upon the rights of women, and Greek women at Union. The admissions staff is working hard to increase the . female enrollment to Union. The new Women's Studies Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the .. . op1n1ons of the Editorial Board ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED · TOTHE CONCORD1ENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00. P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDSWIT..,L NOT BE ACCEPTED. Program, the General Education Requirements and . the. removal of the SAT have all made Union more attractive and obtainable to qualified female students. Yet Union remains a male dominated school as reflected by its history and social system. Although the College has recognized women's academic needs, there has been a failure to notice the social needs of Union's \new' student body. While 18 fraternities exist at Union, only 4 sororities have been colonized. The posSibility of a fifth house seems improbable in the near future. Sororities· are necessary and important. They provide Union's female population a rneans of expression ~md bOnding which is not evident elsewhere on the campus. As the IFC stated in their May 4 Letter to the Editors, \It would seem logical that the College would take all possible measures to insure equal opportunities for both men and women here at Union.\ It seems that the College has not been able to provide these equal opportunities .. Living as a cohesive unit permits. sororities to work togettier, foster closer friendships and maintain the· ideals established in national traditi,on. The College wants to promote theme/ common interest housing, yet they have overloo~ed Gamma Phi Beta and all Greek organizations as common interest groups. As both a common intexest group. and a women's organization, Gamma Phi Beta deserves an on-campus house. Gamma Phi Beta bas proven itself to be a powerful and ;gr-owing sorority on this campns. Their increasing membership proves their ability to ~occupy a b.ouse. As · the SAC continues to deny Gamma Phi Beta a house it helps to perpetuate ·a male dominated social sy~tem where women are net fully assimilated students. · The Panhel~enic Council urges the. SAC to reexamine the rights of Gamma Phi Beta to a bouse. There seems to be much room for discussion on the matter. Respectfully submitted. The Panhellenic Council NOTT MEMORIAL WEEK May22·27 · Enj()y in the promotion of the Nott Memorial's heritage during the week of .events. - ......... - To un fi~ C< Fr Cl Stl th w al Oi 01 be \] C( w vi eJ It \ d u a ti 1J ' r r 2 ' f I

Page 12 CONCORDJENS:IS May 18, 1989 C!tnnrnrltirnsis Founded at Union College 1877· ---- The Deterioration Of The Concept J n 1979 a day was created upon which all of the college community was to practice sobriety. That day is tomorrow, May 19, FitzHugh Ludlow Day. The original desi.g:n of the day was to foster a sense of community, to instill a sense of pride, and above all else, to have a good time without the consl!lmption of alcohol. Many students do not know this initial plan of the first FitzHugh Ludlow Day Committee. Upperclassmen certainly do not pass this on to freshmen. These goals even more certainly are not met. Here is a day with a budget of $8,000 specifically designed as a social alternative to those events dominated by drink. Here is a day offering opportunities for students to be social and mix, not only with their peers, but with faculty and administrators, as well. The day includes bands, a bar-b-que, a comedian, an outdoor movie, the all- campus photo, and !:nore. T s it necessary to drink at any of these events? Should it not be the attitude of students to enjoy the day without a beer in hand. This is not so. It is rather the attitude of students that FitzHugh is just another excuse to get trashed. It is precisely this attitude that may jeopardize the existence of the celebration altogether. If we continue to treat this day as we treat any other day, what is the point of having it at all? It could tum into another Camp Union, which might not see many objections from students, but the loss of this tradition would be a sad occasion. Is it so difficult to spend the day alcohol-free'! Have we no regard for the committee of '79 that we, now, as young adults believe ourselves incapable of achieving and, therefore, do not even strive for them. To what point has our social mentality evolved? There is a time for everything, and this day is a time to be dry. Ten years larger and this campus seems to be as dry as early spring in Schenectady. Safe Saves Sex Lives We must promote the use of condoms. We must practice safe sex, or perhaps even abstinence. We must protect ourselves against the risks of contracting AIDS. AIDS is the leading killer of men between the ages of 18 and 40 in New York State. It is estimated that through 1991, 200,000 Americans will have died from the AIDS virus. I Iigh ri~k 6Tfoups arc not the only ones who need to take precautions. As college students we are highly · susceptible to the HIV infection. Due to our community's sexual habits, greater sexual activity and greater likelihood of having several sexual partners, we need to confront the issue of AIDS. The rise in AIDS over the past year causes alarm. The number of homosexual men testing positive from the virus has increased 50% since last year. As well, the numbers of those testing positive has risen 63% in cases of heterosexual men and 77% in that of heterosexual women. Due to the long incubation period of the AIDS virus, students may be infected in college but tests will not reveal the presence of the virus for up to six months. Since symptoms may not be present in students until they leave college it is necessary for us to be educated. Practicing safe sex is the easiest way to protect oneself from getting AIDS. Condoms prevent the exchange of blood, semen and vaginal fluid which all can carry the AIDS virus. Oral sex also allows for the spread of infection. Every time we have sex without using a condom, we are risking our own lives. We can no longer shrug off the responsibility, we need to be aware of the risks and to take the necessary measures to protect ourselves. LET'TER:S Union Continues to Overlook Gamma Phi B.eta To the Editor: The Union College Panhellenic Coundl serves two major functions for the college community. First, it is the unifying force for all sorority members. It attempts to meet the needs of sisters and pledges throughout the year. Secondly, PanheHenic is the largest aNd perhaps the only representation of women on the Union camp~s. It is with this two- fold purpose that we, the Panhellenic Council, would like to address the issue of Greek h-ousing. More specifically, we would like to address the right of Gamma Phi Beta to an on-campus bouse. The letter written by the IFC spoke of the traditions and virtues which the Greek system has brought to Union. As a Greek organization we share the same sentiments as the IFC. However, our argument on behalf of Gamma Phi Beta focuses more directly upon the rights of women, and Greek women at Union. The admissions staff is working hard to increase the female enrollment to Union. The new Women'~ Studies Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • opinions of the Editorial Board ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED ·TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPIED. Program,. the General Education Requirements and the removal of the SAT have all made Union more attractive and obtainable to qualified female stadents. Yet Unrion remains a male dominated school as reflected by its history and social system. Althougb. the College bas recognized women's academic needs, there has been a failure to notice the social needs of Union's \new' student body. While 18 fraternities exist at Union, only 4 sororities have been colonized. The possibility of a fifth house seems improbable in the near future. Sororities we necessary and import ant. They provide Union's female population a means of expression and bo11ding which is not evident elsewhere on the campus. As the IFC stated in their May 4 Letter to the Editors, \It would seem logical that the College would take all possible measures to in.sure equal opportunities for both men and women here at Union.\ It seems that the College has not been able to provide these equal opportunities. Living as a cohesive unit permits sororities to work together, foster closer friendships and maintain the ideals established in national tradition. The College wants to prom·o:te theme/common interest housing, yet they have overlooked Gamma Phi Beta and all Greek organizations as common interest groups. As both a common interest group and a women's organization, Gamma Phi Beta deserves an on-campus house. Gamma Phi Beta has proven itself to be a powerful and growing sorority on this campus. Their increasing membership proves their ability to occupy a house. As the SAC continues to deny Gamma Phi Beta a house it helps to perpetuate a male dominated social system where women are not fully assimilated students. The Panhellenic Council urges the SAC to reexamine the rights of Gamma Phi Beta to a house. There seems to be much room for discussion on the matter. Respectfully submitted, The Panhellenic Council NOTT MEMORIAL WEEK May 22-27 Enjoy in the promotion of the Nott Memorial's heritage during the week of events. - - To ~ Ull< fig1 Co Fri Ch stu the Wll aw ov l ou be \p co wl VI~ en In w: d€ ur at fe pl \' N n ru \\\ f~ h il b d p p J: s I i

CQNCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Page 13 Liddy Prevailed at Union?. Hitler Was Dynamic Too To the Editor: Mr. G. Gordbll. Liddy is undoubtedly ~ most ,popular figure on the cam.;pus of Union College. Mr. Liddy .spCJke on Friday evening at Memorial Cbapel to an assembly of students. and their parents. At the end of th~ tall:, the speaker was warmly embFaced by the audience and given a standing ovatin. Why? Mr. Liddy's ))resentation outlined the distinction between \sur.viving\ and \prevailing\.- 'Tile former connotes mer.ely. staying alive, while the latter tt:anslaies into . . - ' victory and control over one's environmen~ and ·situation. Indeed one cannot argue; tbat within the ftamework of his· definiation, Liddy has undeniably prevailed. Mr. Liddy sltared with tl.J,e audience his e:xperiences in federal prison, in which he was placed for his role in the Watergage scan<lal, during the Nixon a.dministration. He reminisced abo11t the time he and fellow prisonet:s.were faced with a shortage of toilet facilities. It was e:xplained how be managed to. trick both inmates ant:l guards into believing he ll.ad a venereal disease and, tb.us, obtained a private toilet. :Mr. Liddy had prevailed. He had his own private facility although the shortage' sti1l remained a problem f1>r tile rest of the inmates. In another sh-ort anecdote, Mr. Liddy sllared with the audience how he convinced a rather \big fat. ugly\ prison guard that his 'tlbig, fat, ugly\ wife was having sexual relations with several of the inmates. At the anecdote's conclusion, Mr. Liddy translated· the fact that the incident led to the \big fat, ugly\ man's mental collapse, although it was reasoned that had the breakdown not occurred, .potentially worse harm would have resulted fr:om remaining in the confines of the prison. Mt. Liddy had prevailed. The anecdote was greeted with laughter and applause. · During the question and answer session. a student asked Mr. Liddy what would happen if during the operation of a covert maneuver, a government had mistakenly killed someone. Quite succinctly it was replied to this student, \then we-wculd have-one extra dead person• ' 1 PresentlY the public has 'become outraged · at the brutality .of a gang rape and assault of a white woman in New York's Central Park, by a gang of black youth. Would we welcome those who had committed this crime as warmly as we welcomed Mr. Liddy? Quite obvieusly, the answer is no. Mr. Liddy's indisputable oratorical talents, knowledge of politics. and intelligeace make him an entertaining attraction. However~ Mr. Liddy is, self admittedly. unremorseful for his crimes. Indeed, he clearly described his belief in the importahce of ambition, power and \prevailing\ and in the utilization of often cruel and To the Editor: illegal methods to gain these objectives. Why then do we I was appalled that College sympathize with Mr~ Liddy? resources were used to further Why don't we sympathize with fatten the purse of G. Gordon the young men in New York, Liddy. Inviting Liddy to most of whom Were raised in campus to discuss Freedom. poverty, in a society littered Liberty and tile American Way with racism? Is it because ?vir. . is like inviting the New Liddy's story makes us feel Bedford pool table gang rapists better for cheating in school or . to campus to speak about for being ruthless and unethical · · sexuality. Liddy's escapades, of in the business world? Indeed. · which he is quite proud, have it would be quite di;fficult to . . arguably done more to subvert arg:ue that Mr. Liddy would · democracy in this country than oppose such immoral acts. any other act of recent memory It is not this student'S by turning a generation of intention to accuse all who Americans into political enjoyed Mr; Liddys speech as cynics. Remember that his being dishonest and evil. It is antics were directed against a simply to point out that we are facet of our o~n government, much more willing to overlook not some threatening foreign blatant amorality when the . power. I spoke to some students about his presentation, and, although they were repealed by some of his ideas, they were impressed with his dynamism and intellect. I understand that Hitler was dynamic and intelligent, too. I resent it when people are able to turn their felonies into fortune. and I regret that Union has made its contribution. If there was anything instructive about Liddy's presentation, it is that we must constantly strive to maintain and fuel our moral beacon to protect ourselves against the likes of G. Gordon Liddy. Peter Tobiessen source happens to be white, neat in appearance, and financially suc.cessful. If we fear the suspects in the Central Park case and are horrified by their crime, why do we not fear G. Gorden Liddy and hate his crimes equally, if not more? Questioning Liddy's I.Q. When we remember our experience last Friday, let us remind ourselves that we filled Memorial Chapel to hear a man whose place in history was fixed not by acts of political greatness or moral triumph, but by acts of illegality, cruelty and infamy. , Is this kind of man we want to present with warmth, laughter and a standing ovation\ If indeed we do, let us ask ourselves \why?\ Sincerely, Ruth Cohen, '89 To the Editor:: I read .tbe introduction to G. Gordon Liddy in the May 11 Concor diensis. While I realize tllat the reporter probably got his information on Liddy from a press release, I would like to clarify a common misconception. In beginning the list of Liddy's credentials you state, \Measured as having an IQ of 137-142 (the genius range) ... \ Currently, I am teaching a course \Theories of Intelligence\ here at Union and one of the major points of the course is the wrongness of such an evaluation ·Of a person. I find it embarrassing that Mr. Liddy or his promoters have to stoop so shabbily to use an IQ test measure as a guarantee that he is worth listening to (paying for). And putting aside the fact that we are not told what measure was used or. when in Liddy's life it was made; there is considerable disagreement regarding the meaningfullness of classificaton of people's mental abilities using a single number. There is no disagreement that use of a • person's IQ score in other than a therapeutic manner is inappmpriate. Sincerly, Rosemaire Heinegg Graduate and Continuing Studies, Adjunct f!Jloofl®l1il ©®UUcE~@ !~[p@@Jft@~ W®111!1!Wi1 Presents RICH HALL Comedian ©@.11ilf!J]) [JJwf!®rJf! ~llQ~ Jill®zyJ ~71 ~g@XP) [p(#WilQ f)]&wa®~cruU ©rhctJJ}XBa ~ ~ w~ The Union Se·ntinel There will be a mandatory meeting of all Student ReUnion Weekend workers on Wednesday, May 24 at 4:30 p.m. in the College Center, Room #203. If you cannot attend, call Sharon at 6168. Robert Cordially invites members o.f the Union College Comm-unity to the First Annual Sentinel lecture on The State of the University. This year's speaker is: JOSEPH BOARD Porter Patterson Professor of Govern.ment ' 7 :00 p.m. Reception 7:20 p.m. Address · (Semi-Formal· Dress Req.uired) Wednesday, May 23 Hale House Lower Lounge

CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Page 13 LETTERS Liddy Prevailed at Union? To the Editor: Mr~ G. Gord()n Liddy is 'l:lRdoubtedly a most popular figure on the campus of Union College. Mr. Lid.dy spoke on Friday evening at Memorial Chapel to an assembly of students and theLr parents. At the end of the talk, the speaker was warmly embraced by the audience and given a standing ovatin. Why? Mr. Liddy's presentation outlined the distinction between \suniving\ and \prevailing\. The former connotes merely staying alive, while the latter translates into victory and control over one's environment and sitt~ation. Indeed one canaot argue, that within the framework of his definiation, Liddy has undeniably prevailed. Mr. Liddy shared with tile audience his experiences in federal prison, ill which he was placed for his role in the Watergage scandal, during the Nixon administration. He reminisced about the time he and fellow prisoners were faced with a shortl.lge of toilet facilities. It was explained how he managed to trick both inmates and guards into believing he had a venereal disease and, thus, obtained a private toilet. Mr. Liddy had prevailed. He had his own private facility although the shortage still remained a problem for the rest of the inmates. In another !;hart anecdote, Mr. Liddy shared with the audience how he convinced a rather \big fat, ugly\ prison guard that his \big fat, ugly\ wife was having sexual relations with several of the inmates. At the anecdote's conclusion, Mr. Liddy translated tlile fact that the incident led to the \big fat, ugly\ man's mental collapse, although it was reasoned that had the breakdown not occurred, potentially worse harm would have resulted from remaining in the confines of the prison. Mr. Liddy had prevailed. The anecdote was greeted with laughter and applause. During the question and answer session, a student asked Mr. Liddy what would happen if during the operation of a covert maneuver, a government had mistakenly killed someone. Quite succinctly it was replied to this student, \then we would have one extra dead person.\ Presently the public has become outraged at the brutality of a gang rape and assault of a white woman in New York's Central Park, by a gang of black youth. Would we welcome those who had committed this crime as wannly as we welcomed Mr. Liddy? Quite obviously, the answer is no. Mr. Liddy's indisputable oratorical talents, knowledge of politics, and intelligence make him an entertaining attraction. However, Mr. Liddy is, self admittedly, unremorseful for his crimes. Indeed, he clearly described his belief in the importance of ambition, power and \prevailing\ and in the utilization of often cruel and illegal methods to gain these objectives. Why then do we sympathize with Mr. Liddy? Why don't we sympathize with the young men in New York, most of whom were raised in poverty, in a society Httered with racism? Is it becat~se Mr. Liddy's story makes us feel bener for cheating in school or for being ruthless and unethical in the business world? Indeed, it would be quite difficult to argue that Mr. Liddy woHld oppose such immoral acts. It is not this student's intention to accuse all who enjoyed Mr. Liddy's speeca as being dishonest and evil. It is simply to point out that we are much more willing to overlook blatant amorality when the source happens to be white, neat in appearance, and financially successful. If we fear the suspects in the Central Park case and are horrified by their crime, why do we not fear G. Gordon Liddy and hate his crimes equal! y, if not more? When we remember our experience last Friday, let us remind ourselves that we filled Memorial Chapel to hear a man whose place in history was fixed not by acts of political greatness or moral triumph, but by acts of illegality, cruelty and infamy. Is this kind of man we want to present with warmth, laughter and a standing ovation\ If indeed we do, let us ask ourselves \why?\ Sincerely. Ruth Cohen, '89 The Union Sentinel Robert Cordially invites members of the Union College Community to the First Annual Sentinel lecture on The State of the University. This year's speaker is: JOSEPH BOARD Porter Patterson Professor of Government 7:00 p.m. Reception 7:20 p.m. Address {Semi-Formal Dress Required) Wednesday, May 23 Hale House Lower Lounge Hitler Was Dynamic Too To the Editor: I was appalle<l that College resources were used to further · f<~tten the ptuse of G. Gordon Liddy. Inviting Liddy to campus to discuss Freedom, Uberty aRd the American Way is like inviting the New Bedford pool table gang rapists · to campus to speak about sexuality. Liddy's escapades, of which he is quite proud, have arguably done more to subvert democracy in this country than any other act of recent memory by tH.rning a .generation of Americaas into political cynics. Remember that his antics were directed against a facet of our own government, not some threatening foreign power. I spoke to some students about his presentation, and., although they were repealed by some of his ideas, they were impressed with his dynamism and intellect. I understaad that Hitler was dynamic and intelligent, too. I resent it when people are able to turn their felonies into fortune, and I regret that Union has made hs contribution. If there was anything instructive about Liddy's presentation, it is that we must constantly strive to maintain and fuel our moral beacon to protect ourselves against the likes of G. Gordon Liddy, Peter Tobiessen Questioning Liddy's I.Q& To the Editor: I read the introduction to G. Gordon Liddy in the May 11 C on cordi e n s is . While I realize that the reporter probably got his information on Liddy from a press release, I would like to clarify a common misconception. In beginning the list of Liddy's credentials you state, \Measured as: having an IQ of 137-142 (the genius range) ... \ Currently, I am teaching a course \Theories of Intelligence\ bere at Union and one of the major points of the course is the wrongness of such an evaluation of a person. I find it embarrassing that Mr. Liddy or his promoters have to stoop so shabbily to use an IQ test measure as a guarantee that he is worth listening to (paying for). And putting aside the fact that we are not told what measure was used or when in Liddy's life it was made; there is considerable disagreement regarding the meaningfullness of classificaton of people's mental abilities using a single number. There is no disagreement that use of a person's: IQ score in other than a therapeutic manner is inappropriate. Sincerly, Rosemaire Heinegg Graduate and Continuing Studies, Adjunct [!Jrruu®oo. ©©U UCBffJ:B $3JfJriJ®Jkcarm .ffil&'YIJJ/Jn Presents RICH HALL Comedian ©®.rm;p Wlw:d!®lfJ. ~l!Q)) m~ ~71 ~gcpyo p?;m~ Jiil&wu®JY!!:na :CJ1ca;pJJ 2 ~ }Ji;J&E'E )]f~ There will be a mandatory meeting of all Student ReUnion Weekend workers on Wednesday, May 24 at 4:30 p.m. in the College Center, Room #203. If you cannot attend, call Sharon at 6168. ..

. Page 14 CONCQRDlENSIS May 18, 1989 AIDS A ware ness Be Aware , \ . . . . ' . --' . .Get the Facts About By AMY 'BABOFF Consider these facts: AIDS is s:preading throughout tile general population. New York State has the highest incidence rate of AIDS. Union College is in New York State. In the back of your mind are you thinking --\maybe this can happen to me?\ Health professionals and edacators are worried that not eno~gh American students are AWARE of the measures to protect themselves in the sexually permissive atmosphere of campus life. Many, if they know any facts about AIDS, seem to believe that this disease will not affect them. There is a combination of fear and ignorance which allows one to conclude- \It's not my problem.\ College stadents, at times, think: they are invincible; they maintain the youthful attitudes of risk- taking and sexual experimentation. Protection and education is in the public interest. Campuses nationwide are distributing literature, creating condom advertisements, and organizing AIDS conferences in an effort to promote AIDS AWAREness. AIDS campaigns aim to inform the AIDS masses of the latest developments in AIDS research as well as l(iJ< promote responsible sexual behavior. One must question, how much of this information is really i'eaching students? How much is eliciting responsive action? How mucll is invoking fear? How many students stop listening when you mention AIDS'? Unfortunately, there is no concrete data to indicate the possible answers to these questions. How effective ~ducational and i:nformational programs are i.s far fn~m certain. Understandillg bow tlie AIDS virus enters and affects tile b()dy is not diffic11lt to C()mprehend. Let us follow the assumption that students are in college to broaden their intellect, to expand horizons, to discover personal potentialities, and to prepare, in some way, for the future. Factors attributing to individual and intellectual growtil consist of information, experience, and interaction. It follows then that voluntarily reading pamphlets and listening attentively to speakers will provide you with We know AIDS is bad. We know that AIDS is not confined to the bisexual and homosexual population and to IV drug users. We know that the probability of its occurrence can be reduced. , YOU ca~ prevent AIDS. information. Understanding how the AIDS virus enters and affects the body is not difficult to com:prehend. Talking about AIDS with family, friends and health care educators will help to give you the experience in honestly discussing the disease and to clarify any misunderstandings. F,or example, AIDS is n0t spread through everyday, casual contact. And, pertinent to college students is interaction. Once you learn how AIDS can be prevented and feel comforta:ble in discussing the disease~ share that information with others. Discussing AIDS and sex among friends and potential partners could possibly cause anxiety and embarrassment. But, if done in an informed, honest manner, you'll be more relaxed and can make better choices concerning safe sexual activity. Living in a society with AIDS can be scary. Although you should be concerned, you need not be afraid. The fact is that one has more control over the disease than is realized. And, it is now, in college, with information, experience and interaction readily accessible that we must learn, trust in and share tile facts about AIDS. Take controi and increase your AIDS AWAREness now! Friday • IS A ·Awareness Day! SUMMER \ ~ OF .'42 Starring Jennifer O'Neill and Gary Grimes. . A nostalgic melodrama . about an adolescent boy and· a young warbride. (1971) ·RatedR. FRE ··E·''' . . ·•. ·• SHOWING AT 7, ·9, & 11 TONIGHT!! 1 ~ Greeks, Sponsor AIDS Awareness By. AMY BABOFF As Will Keirn stated in his speech on Wednesday, April 26, in Memorial Chapel, \You are in a time when sex can kill and you better become· in ore responsible. II Following this advice, all 23 Greek organizations have chosen to sponsor an AIDS awareness campaign. We need to take AIDS more seriously and especially need to be aware and convinced that we are at risk. The Greeks are unified in the attem:pt to promote AIDS awareness. To do so, infm;m.ational pamphlets will be available when purchasing a Firzhugh Ludlow Day T -shirt. This is an effort to provide you with the latest information. Learning about AIDS is the first step in protecting yourself and others from the illness. Another means to acquire information is to call the AIDS toll-free hotline. This number will be advertsied at the all- campus barbecue. And, finally, tonight, the movie II Summer of '42\ will be shown - free admission. It is a story about love and sex during the war. At present, there is no cure for AIDS and the death rate for people with AIDS is high. One in every 3,000 students has AIDS. However, there is a lot you can do to prevent the spread of the virus that causes AIDS. . I~ is the hope that during this Fitzhugh Ludlow Day, its lOth anniversary, that each individual will increase his/her awareness and understanding of AIDS. These AIDS awareness promotional efforts are for YOU the Union Community, sponsored by the Union Greeks. Take advantage of this infonnation. It can save your life. It will only get worse. It won't go away. Ignoring it and fearing it is more contagious than the disease itself. . ......... , .AIDS. .. - a t i - b e c tl r1 ) a tl c d ll d e lJ a f ) ( t t

CONCORDIEN,SIS May 18, 1989 Page 15 AIDS Awareness By SVZANNE SHAJ{ER Fea·tures Editor Editor's Note: This article is reprimted from the October 13, 1988 issue of Concordiensis. There is one case of AIDS being discovered in the world every minute. There are more cases of AIDS than births in today's world. These facts are real and they affect all of us. AIDS is a part of ou:r society and even though it may' not touch all of us· directly we cannot deny that the dead•y disease exists and is .snatching up more and more lives each day. Because the AID'S · epidemic is so new, the general public knows relatively little about it. Many concerned faculty members, the Administration, and a number of very interested students want to change this, especially on this campus. They realize how . The November Conference Was T'he Sta·rt Of Consciousnes·s important it is to educate the communio/ about AIDS, its symptoms and effects. These people are taking action and doing their part to inform Union College, to make the college community ''AIDS Aware.\ A conference on AIDS has been planned for Thursday, November 3rd by the college committee on AIDS. The keynote address will be given at 11 a.m. in Memorial Chapel by Dr. Richard Goldsby, Professor of veterinary and criminal science at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a Professor of biology at Amherst College (Dr. GoldSby has also written and lectured extensively on the AlDS epidemic .. ) Following .his presentation there will be four individual seminars from -1 :30 to 3:30 p.m. in the College Center. All students, faculty and the pu\>lic are welcome for an open discussion during these sessions. The topics to be discussed include \AIDS and Minorities,\ \AlDS and Women/ \AIDS and Community Action\ and \AIDS Update.'\ Each session will be led by an expert in the field. You may attend as many seminars as you like. The focus of this year's ,conference, which differs from last year's is primarily .aimed at the effect of AIDS on minorities and low income groupus. These groups tend to know the least about AIDS and yet are highly affected by the disease. Although .the conference has not been established as an annual function the college is considering that option. According to Professor Twitty Styles, the chairman of the committee on AIDS, the main goal of the conference is to define AIDS, its causes, symptoms. transmission of the virus, available resources and public health care treatment, and pr~tection and prevention against AIDS. The AIDS .committee which is mostly WHERE comprised of faculty but does include some students hopes that the audience will come away with a greater understanding of AIDS after the conference. Last year's conference received a tremendous turnout In order for Union to become an AIDS aware environment, th.ere needs to be a sense of college committment •.• and the coriunittee hopes that this year's program will be even more successful. The committee has been reaching out to the community contacting schools, churches, hospitals and social workers, encouraging those outside the college to participate in the opportunity to have their questions answered as well. The conference will be videotaped so that those who are unable to atteiJd can view CQNPOMS ON CAMPUS TYPE West Co.llege -Laundry Room Close Encounters Fox - 3rd floor south \ Davidson .. 3rd floor north \ Union College Bookstore 2nd floor WHERE Planned parenthood 44 Union Stre.et Mohawk Grocery & Deli Nott Street A+ Mini Mar1<et 80 Nott Terrace Trojans - Latex Trojan-Enz Lubricated Trojan Ribbed KingKondom CONDOMS OFF CAMPUS TYPE Secure Trojans -Latex Trojan Ribbed Trojans -latex Trojan-Enz Lubricated Trojan Ribbed the conference at a later date. In order for Union to become an AIDS aware environment there needs to be a sense of college commitment, the college community must want to educate itself and support the efforts of those who are involved in specific projects that promote AIDS awareness. In addition to the AIDS committee the student forum is planning to distribute one hundred copies of the October single topic issue of \Scientific America,\ which is solely dedicated this month to the AIDS crisis. The psychology department is also buying one hundred issues of the magazine as is the office of Dean Mammola. Some of the magazines will be sold for markedly less than the cover price. subsidized by the college at the information booth in the College Center. Don't forget to attend the conference. We cannot deny the existence of AIDS. Its is out there and it affects us all. COST $ .50 cents II II $1.19/3 pk. $1.59/3 pk. II $1.99/3 pk. COST free $1.39/3 pk: \ $1.69/3 pk. $1.99/3 pk. ... \It's Condom Sense to use a AIDS Hotline 1-800-541-AIDS ....... •

' - -- }~ . Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS May ~8, 1989 The Larry & Dawn Moister Scholars.hip Raffle winners were drawn Saturday May 13, 1'89 at 4:00 p.m. All Junior ('90) Political Science majors are · required to .attend a meeting pertaining to the senior thesis scheduled for T:hursday, ;May 25, 7:0;0 p.m. in Social Sciences 103. The faculty· of th·e d·epartment will be pres:ent to disc·uss ·· 1opic sel·ection, ad'vising arrang·ements, and\ • general prep.aratlon for. th:e thesis .experience. Adviser preference forms wiU b:e .made avai lab:l e for the first time at this m:eeting .. Amana Microwave: Dave Vincelette of Altamont Schwinn Bike: Cathy Delanoy of Catskill Dinner for 4 at the Glen Sanders Mansion: Jack Hogle of Physics Dept. The Vetter Rainsuit: Linda Tiedemann of Midd·leburg Congratulations! ! ! and THANK YOU ·to all who partic:ipflted. LosAngeks $99 roundtrip Phormix $99 roundtrip Denver $99 roundtrip Chicaga $99 roundtri:jJ· Seattle $99 roundtrip Miami $99rou~p · A special offer for students, · only for Atilerican Expres~Cardmembers. If you wa11t to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. Because UC)W y()U can take advantage of new travel privileges on NCJrtilwest Airlines only forjull-time students who ca1'ry the American Express Card. Travel privil.egesthat offer: .,6\ 'Iwo $9!J r{)und/rip tickets-fly to many of NORTiiWEST tbernort! than 180 cities setved by North- AI A LINES 'llest in the contiguous 48 United States. LOOK TO us Ollly one ticket ~ay be used per six- mollttl ,period. Spedalf}uart~{-v.Northtmst.Destinotion1Ji$counts throughout 1.9.89-up to 25% off most available fares. 5,000 bonus miles in Notthwest's WORLD PERKS® free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you a free rou;ndtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contig~ous 48 United States or Canada-upon enrollment through this special student offer. And, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal seiVice you would expect from American Express. The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu'\ dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. just call 1-800-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it tight away. What's more, with our Automatic Approval offers, you can qualify now while you're still in :SChool. Apply now. Fly late~ -·for less. Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX *Fare is for roundtrip travelon N()rthwest Airlines. Tickets must be purchased within 24 hours aftermaking reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no itinerary changes may be made after purchase. seats at tlliS .fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be completed by certificate expiration date and may not be available between cities to which Northwest does act have direct connections orroutings. City fuel tax surcharges not included in fare from Boston ($2.50), Chicag() ($5.00}andFiorida cities ($2.00). Certain blackout dates and otlumesttictionS.may apply. For complete offer details, calll-800-942-AMEX. Current studentCardmembers automatically receive two.$99vouchers in the An Arnorican ElOjlre .. _nv mail. © 1989 American EJqJress navel Related Services Company, Inc.

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS May 18, 1989 The Larry & Dawn Moister Scholarship Raffle winners were drawn Saturday May 13, 1989 at 4:00 p.m. All Junior ('90) Political Science majors are required to attend a mee1ing pertaining to the senior thesis scheduled for Thursday, May 25, 7:00p.m. in Socia.l Sciences 103. The faculty of the department wil'l b·e present to discuss topic selection, advising arrangements, and general preparation for the thesis experience. Adviser preference forms will :be made available for the first time at this meeting. Amana Microwave: Dave Vincelette of Altamont Schwinn Bike: Cathy Delanoy of Catskill Dinner for 4 at the Glen Sanders Mansion: Jack Hogle of Physics Dept. The Vetter Rainsuit: Linda Tiedemann of Middleburg Congratulations! ! ! and THANK YOU to all wlw participated. est Los Angeles $99 roundtrip Pboeni;r: $99 roundtrip Denver $99 roundtrip Chicago $99 roundtrip Seattle $99 roundtrip Miami $99 I'OUndtrip A special offer for students, only for Arherican Express·Cardmembers. If you want to go places, it's time for the American Express® Card. Because now you can take advantage of new travel privileges on Northwest Airlines only for full-time students who carry the Amerium Express Card Travel privileges that offer: .8 7Wo $99 roundtrip tickets-fly to many of NORTI-IWEST the more than 180 cities served by North- AI.RLINES west in th~ contiguous 48 United .states. LOOK TO us Only one ticket may be used per SiX- month period. Special Quarter{v Northztest De.sti1Ultion Discounts throughout 1989-up to 25% off most available fares. 5,000 bonus miles in Northwest's WORLDPERKS® free travel program-where only 20,000 miles gets you a free roundtrip ticket to anywhere Northwest flies in the contiguous 48 United Stat€S or Canada-upon enrollment through this special student offer. Aml, of course, you'll enjoy all the exceptional benefits and personal service you would expect from American Express. The only requirements for privileged travel: you must be a Cardmember, you must be a full-time stu- dent, and you must charge your Northwest Airlines tickets with the Card.* Getting the Card is easier than ever because now you can apply by phone. Just calll-8()0-942-AMEX. We'll take your application and begin to process it right away. What's more, with our Automatic Approvfll offers, you ca11 qualify now while you're still in .schml. Apply now. Fly later -for less. Apply Now: 1-800-942-AMEX *Fare is for roundtrip travel on Northwest Airlines 'Tickets must be purchasedwithin 24 hours after making reservations. Fares are non-refundable and no iti!lerary changes may be made after purchase. Seats at this fare are limited and may not be available when you call. Travel must be comJ>Ieted by certificate expiration date and ma-y [l()t be available between RElATED cities .to which Northwest does not ha~e ?irect co11nections or routings. City fue~ tax surcharges not included in fare from Bostm ($2. SO), Chica~o ($5.00) and Florida cities ($2.00). SERVICES Certam blackout dates and other restnct10ns may apply. For complete offer detaJis, call t:ll00-942-AMEX. Current student Cardmembers automatically receive two $99 vouchers in the AnArnencanE•prosscompanv mail.© 1989 American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.

CONCORVIENSltS May 18, 1989 ,; ' ARTS·~ ENTERTAINMENT Mountebanks' ·\Dark And Stormy Night. . . \ \It was a dark and stormy than IlOt to know. This was the nigbt\ of \umbrellaed\ theme ()fl;he one-act play • . applause in the Nott Memorial This. play, which was as Mountebanks presented four performed to a room hrll of one-act plays this past week. parents and teens on the first Aside from the running theme night {){parent's weekendt was of rain, which tied the acts a bit controversial because it together.; each student-written dealt ~With collegiate issues play was different in content conce;mmg casual sex and the from the n¥xt; thus the promiaent use of alcohol. production consisted .of an Since the audience was unlike assortment of works rainging tbe (}Des on previous nights, from the dramatic to the · , the re~ponse was different than h · te · al the acoors. had expected. As a ys nc . res1,1lt, tile players were thrown On Friday, ·May 12, the officer and consequently didn't crowd rolled in slowly and get things smoothly ,off the filled up the available sea:tfng ground.. Additionally, the script around the perimeter of the was full of underlying ~arcasm turquoise and black checkered and wiitticisms which ended up stage. Th,e title of the gettin~ diluted by a somewhat perfonnance was painted on the weak: delivery, combined with far wall of the theatre, and in the allcli~nce's inability to catch ftont of it stood a constructed on t() what was happening. array of stained wo.oden pieces Subse!(luently, although. the nailed t<>gether and covered scri})t itself was full of juicy with records, phones, and ail ma:tetiid, the act didn't shine assortment of .junk yard that evening the way it should leftovers. Although a lack ~of have. seating for those with tickets . The second one~act,. \October for that night's perfmmance 16~ 2C>g9\ by Jan Berlage, and caused some delay, the sta:rring Tim Wyme:!h Hilary production finally began. Henkind, and Michael S. \Snipes\, was writttert by Colt~n,, was a 'parody of the Katie Boyd and starring Andrew future which mocked parental F. Braver, Phil Chang, Ben concerns over children and Davoudzadeh, Laura Heffernan, harped upon natural occurrences and Nancy O'G lisben, opened sue b. as the common rainstorm.. the first scene with a blast of In thls act,-the Starburst family/ music by The Who. When the fears acid rain because it has music stopped a spotlight the capability of melting focused solely on one or two h11man:s if they are not properly characters who questioned love pr{)t(';cted. Consequently, the affairs,. homosexuality, and playl'evolves around a raincoat whether it is better to know whicll the son, John Starbust, Celebrate Sobriety ••• .lfDfril. I}{IQ!J@!iu l11YJ@I~©W · ©©IW\\ ••• Lover Boy Pet Sematery The Rescuers She's Out of Control Criminal Law Listen To Me Major League is supposed to wear :to school when it rains~ This play was eccentric and exaggerated ill sc:ript was well as in costume. The outfits Mr. and Mrs. Stllil!lmrst wore were brilliant in C::Cilor and bluntly clashed to amms.e the audience. Ironically .the S()D was as tall .as .the father and wore 1989 • • • the prod11ction consisted Cll an assortment of works ranging fro•m the dramatic i() tlile hysterical. stylish clotlle;s~ yet the beanie on his head distinguished him as the som of the family. During ·the «:muse of the play, sporadic musiic: would chime in to foreshadow tllat something bad was going to happen. When this 10ccurred, the characters woeuld pause and look upward5 a:s if they, too, wondered wheae the music came fronn. 1fhis idea of See No Evil Hear No Evil Field of Dreams SideboaTd Pet Sematery How I Gat Into College Rain Man ''A Decade of Dryness\ Call Theaters for Show· Times. FITZ HUGH LUDLOW DAY presents: Miracle Legion on West Beach 2-6 p.m. The cast of \Snipes\ stepping out of character for a few seconds helped drive home the elements of parody existent in the play. Although the script was not substantially fulfilling in terms of the character sketches, it sufficed as a lighthearted comedy which managed to get its point across to the audience in a simple manner. After the intermission,· tile third act began entitled, \One Woman\ written by Carolyn Dunn, and starring Katie Boyd and Peter Katz. This play opened with the sound of rain in the background as Lucy (the one woman) sat in a cafe · speaki11g to a friend about her literary accomplishments and of her present day problems with men. In her discussion of men she recalls a relationship she once had, and it is here that the .stage served to exhibit this flashback. The flashback, stemming from Lucy's stream of consciousness- in the cafe, Page 17 reveals a college relationship she .had had with a guy named Pete. As the act shifts its focus back and forth from the present to the past, the audience is taken through Lucy's and Pete's relationship as it progressed from ,one of courtly flirtation to love. Although it has been said that all good things come to an end, we are left with a sense of wonderment at the end of the play as to whether or not Lucy and Pete will ever meet again. I enjoyed watching this play and give much credit to Katie Boyd for delviering many of her lines to an empty chair, and to the lighting crew who greatly refined their techniques from the dress rehearsal they had held the previous Monday. The final one-act play, \Self- Portrait\ written by Melissa Bloom, and starring Ed Vassalo and David Lopiano, ended the entire production on a very high note. It was full of Continued on page 19

•I 'I ,, ., 'I ·' I / I ! CONCORIJlBNSIS May 18, 1989 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Mountebanks' \Dark And Stormy Night& . (j\ \It was a dark and stormy night\ of \umbrellaed\ applause in the Nott Memorial as Mountebanks presented four one-act plays this past week. Aside from the running theme of rain, which tied the acts together; each student-written play was different in content from the next; thus the production consisted of an assortment of works rainging from the dramatic to the hysterical. On Friday, May 12, the crowd rolled in slowly and filled up the available seating around the .perimeter of the turquoise and black checkered stage. The title of the performance was painted on the far wall of the theatre, and in front of it stood a constructed array of stained wooden pieces nailed together and covered with records, phones, and an assortment of junk yard leftovers. Altbough a lack of seating for those with tickets for that night's performance caused some delay, the production finally began. \Snipes\, was writtten by Katie Boyd and starring Andrew F. Braver, Phil Chang, Ben Davoudzadeh, Laura Heffernan, and Nancy O'Glishen, opened the first scene with a blast of music by The Who. When the music stopped a spotlight focused solely on one or two characters who questioned love affairs, homosexuality, and whether it is better to know Celebrate Sobriety ••• [ffifr~ ~®@lru [LQJJ@la©W ©©IW \' ••• than not to know. This was the theme of the one-act play. This play, which was performed to a roorn full of parents and teens on the first night of parent's weekend, was a bit controversial because it dealt with collegiate issues concerning casual sex and the prominent use of alcohol. Since the audience was unlike the ones on previous nights, the response was different than the actors had expected. As a result, the players were thrown off key and consequently didn't get things smoothly off the ground. Additionally, the script was full of underlying sarcasm and witticisms which ended up getting diluted by a somewhat weak delivery, combined with the audience's inability to catch on to what was happening. Subsequently, although the script itself was fuU of juicy material, the act didn't shine that evening the way it should have. The second one-act, \October 16, 2089\ by Jan Berlage, and starring Tim Wymes, Hilary Henkind, and Michael S. Cohen, was a p;nody of the future which mocked parental concerns over children and harped upon natural occurrences such as the common rainstorm. In this act, the Starburst family fears acid rain because it has the capability of melting humans if they are not properly protected. Consequently, the play revolves around a raincoat which the son, John Starbust, Pet Sematery The Rescuers She's Out of Control Criminal Law Listen To Me Major League is supptOsed to wear to school when it rains. This. play was eccentric and exaggerated in script was well as in costume. The outfits Mr. and Mrs. Startmrst wore were brillia11t in color and bluntly clashedto amuse the audience. Ironically the son was as tall as the father and wore 1989 g 1he production consisted of an ass()~:1m~nt of works ranging from the dr a Ill a tic to the hys1:er ical. stylislt clothes, yet the beanie on his head distinguished him as the son of the family. During the course of the play, sporadic music would chime in to foreshadow that something bad was going to happen. Whe11 this occurred, the characters would pause and look upwards as if they, too, wondered where the music came from. This idea of See No Evil Hear No Evil Field of Dreams Sideboard Pet Sematery How I Got In to College Rain Man \A Decade of Dryness\ Call Theaters for Show Times. FITZ HU-GH LUDLOW DAY presents: Miracle Legion on West Beach 2-6 p.m. The cas1 of \Snipes\ stepping out of character for a few seconds helped drive home the elements of parody existent in the play. Although the script was 11ot substantially fulfilling i.n terms of the character sketches, it sufficed as a lighthearted. comedy which managed to get its point across to the audience in a simple manner. After the intermission, the third act began entitled, \One Woman\ written by Carolyn Dunn, and starring Katie Boyd and Peter Katz. This play opened with the sound of rain in the background as Lucy (the one woman) sat in a cafe speaking to a friend about her literary accomplishments and of her present day problems with men. In her discussion of men she recalls a relationship she once had, and it is here that the stage served to exhibit this flashback:. The flashback, stemming from Lucy's stream of consciousness in the cafe, reveals a college relationship she had had with a guy named Pete. As the act shifts its focus back and forth from the present to the past, the audience is taken through Lucy's and Pete's relationship as it progressed from one of courtly flirtation to love. Although 1t has been said that all good things come to an end, we are left with a sense of wonderment at the end of the play as to whether or not Lucy and Pete will ever meet again. I enjoyed watching this play and give much credit to Katie Boyd for delviering many of her lines to an empty chair, and to the lighting crew who greatly refined their techniques from the dress rehearsal they had held the previous Monday. The final one-act play, \Self- Portrait\ written by Melissa Bloom, and starring Ed Vassalo and David Lopiano, ended the entire production on a very high note. It was full of Continued on page 19 HOROSCOPES BY MADAME nxu Taurus: Beware! The truth is painful, yet it must be pursued. You'll run into many difficulties this week but you can pull through. Cancer: Your love life is sprouting like the early flowers of spring. Be daring and go after the person you've been lusting over for the past few weeks. Leo: Your ego is definitely interfering with the success of your social life. Put your nose down for once and show who you really are. Virgo: Your body tingles too much . . . try and lower your honnone level by being active in .something else other than Roman Ecstacies! Play a little backgammon . Libra: Weigh out the pros and cons to your success. This period is extremely beneficial in making serious. plans .. . like balancing your checki:n.g account. Scorpio: Don't wallow in your thoughts of yesterday. Look to Friday to exert the high energy and animalistic tendencies you've been h:iding! Sagittarius: Go for it. Capricorn: You have finally realized that you are bored. Go play a little frisbee and dream on ... maybe you'll bump into someone unexpectedly. Aquarius.: Stop swimming in someone else's waters. Get out before a shark devours you!! Pisces: Something is cooking in the kitchen ... Get the pot boiling by, turning the flame up high. Aries: You're too horny. Drench your body in Ben Gay and try not to stick your finger in your eye. This Saturday promises rewards! (/) :fi ::!: ....J ....J 5: u >- a:J 0 f- a :r: a_

Page 18 CONCQRD1ENSJS May· 18 1'989 ' . '· ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Urban Bush Women At Proctorls Too· By DENISE FEINSOD Last Friday night, I skipped Liddy and headed off campus for entertainment. In order te fulfill an assignment for a class, two friends and I headed downtown to Proctor's Too, a ·new theater on Broadway behind Prodor's whictr bills itself as ,presenting \new stages of performance\ and begins all shows at 8:02 p.m. Urban Bush Women danced that night in a powerfu,l and rnov·in~ perf<irmance which left rne .dancing home, trying to The Union College Choir has major plans for the 1989-90 school year. Included in these plans is a restructuring of the choir. We are establishing a · \Concert\ Choir which will be a division of the larger Union College Choir. Plans for the Union College Concert Choir include a tour of Israel, Egypt and Greece at the conclusion of the Fall trimester, a tentative· ,.Spring Break\ tour, and others. Course credit is also available for all choir members. . repmduce · their incredible energy, strength, beauty and e:cpression. Under the artistic direction of Jawo1a Willa Jo Zollar, these eight women danced all different aspects of their life experiences; they danced as girls and as women, as black VI<Jmen living in Al1terica, and as hll111an beings struggling in a tr<lul>led world However, auditions are required for possible place.ment in the Concert Choir,. and will be taking place next week. Theil first dance was entitled \[Don't Know, But I've Been 1'old If You Keep On Dancin' You Never Grow Old\. Mu·sically, they were accompan.ied: by David Pleasant, however they basically accompanied Please call Professor H.A. Wilson at x6201 for auditions or fm:_ther information, or feel free to stop by the Arts Office. TOM ROSS & TRIO Wednesday,. May 24@ 7:30pm Performing Arts Studio Jazz Guitar Special Cabaret on Thursday, May 25@ 9:00pm Mrican Music Class Performs together with visiting students from Ghan, along with the live Hamilton Hill Drums. WRUC SHOW PICK-OF~THE-WEEK THE COFFEE BREAK with Ruth Cohen and Donna Lanzandorf Tuesday 10:00-Noon Like a fine wine ... Coffee, Break has matured over the span offour years to appeal to the taste of many. Starting with the grounds of classic artists, we perk up your musical mouth with a gamut of tunes spanning the decades, leaving you with a taste of progressive brew. themselves with singing, yelling, foot stomping, hand clapping, and even the sound of their own breathing. This dance showed the rhythm and dance in many parts of children's lives, from jumping rope to cheerleading to strutting down a street. The dancers seemed filled with energy; they excited the audience with their vitality> skill, and obvious .enjoyment in w:hat they were doing. A \structured improvisation\ by Jawola· Willa .Jo ZoHar, entitiled \Working For Free\ was next on the program. Alone on a bare stage with no accompaniment, Zollar. danced different moods and rhythms, . showing, at one point, the difference between the rhythm of New Orleans and that of New York. The audience laughed in recognition of .the New Yorker frantically wallOng through a crowd. ZoUai then invited the audience to provide her with \spirits\ to dance. She danced the spirit of \cool;' and \whimsey\ and of II sophistication\ and U sex\ choosing to. dance the latter \ two together. Her d:ances were great for their .simplicity and sense of humor; she slipped in and out of dance, her movements always sensitive to the 1hythm which she showed pervading our lives. The third piece performed was called \Girlfriends\. Here we saw four girls at a slumber party. The dancing here was wonderfully expressive. One, and then another cf the girls became upset; thJnugh their movements they showed feelings of alienation and confusion. They then comforted each other and made up their .differences. One girl opened her robe and with obvious relish, she revealed to the others the sexy teddy she was w~aring. For what seemed like a long, long time, the otber three girls la11ghed at her, hysterically, in incredible slow motion. Moving at. a guatter of normal speed, they bent double with laughter, fell on the ground and rolled with it. Their slow, silent laughter had the entire audience laughing with them-- they were fantastic! llere again, the rhythm of ordinary life could be seen; they were dancing tghe teal's · I:Uld laughter of fol!I adolescent girls at a slumber party. · · The ·last danc.e before the intermission was called \Bitter Tongue\. Part of this dance ' was done to the traditional music of the Gbaya people of the Central African Republic. The unfamiliar music was interesting and beautiful, and was coupled with an intense dance of women singing of their husbands' bitter tongues. Their pain and outrage and vows of defiance were' all expressed in their dancing and · singing. Beginning separated from each other bot concluding Continued on page 19 .---- .... ---------- .. I I I I Clip ''N' Save THE NEW 8.97 I 1 Softball is the rage, my friends. Softball, Softball, I So1tball! The sound of smacking ball on leather. The slide into second base. Then there's the multitude o' I I I I I I I I ,;refreshments\ to imbibe while waiting to bat. Sensations of inevitable Victory are as sweet as the 10,000 Maniacs 1 taking the top spot. Thank you. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Artist 1. 10,000 Maniacs 2. The Cure 3. Indigo Girls 4. The Godfathers 5. FIREHOSE 6. Tom Tom Club 7. The The 12\ 8. Simple Minds 8.97 Bob Mould Title A Blind Man's Zoo Disintegration Indigo Girts More Songs About Love & Hate FROM OHIO Boom Boom Chi Boom Boom \The :Beat( en) Generation\ Street Fighting Years Workbook . I Label 1 ~lektra 1 Elektra Epic J Epic 1 SST Sire I ~pic 1 Asm · Virgin 1 Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week \Happy\ • P.l.l. I I I Programming Notes: ,, •Stay tuned fo,r, oh, six hours or so 1 Wednesday, the 24th as Fast Ed counts down I the top 8.97 songs of the school year. I •For those who like to see a newspaper staff rot in the dust, catch the softball game on May 24th. I I I L-- --- --------- ... J'

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ·.K. · i~'ifi!ia.~:. ·•.· ... - ... :QI:t·~o·vc *' .. - . --·~ As the air in between 1:n$:clo¢k's tiiQks; a:n~f:I''. Urban Bush Women At Proctor·'s Too T ocks passes ana a roost&r sing$ from his fence, · .. · · Incipient sunshine brings shadows to 1he night; Even though dawn exists without your presence, you ~· Make into a poem this arriving daylight By John Donohue The Union College Choir has major plans for the 1989-90 school year. Included in these plans is a restructuring of the chuir. We are establishing a \Concert\ Choir which will be a division of the larger Union College Choir. Plans for the Union College Concert Choir include a tour of Israel, Egypt and Greece at the conclusion of the Fall trimester, a tentative \Spring Break\ tour, and others. Course credit is also available for all choir members. However, auditions are required for possible placement in the Concert Choir, and will be taking place next week. Please call Professor H.A. Wilson at x6201 for auditions or fur_ther information, or feel free to stop by the Arts Office. By DENISE FEINSOD Last Friday night, I skipped Liddy and headed off campus for entertainment. In order to fulfill an assignment for a class, two friends and I headed downtown to Proctor's Too, a new theater on Broadway behind Proctor's which bins itself as presencing \new stages of performance\ and begins all shows at 8:02 p.m. Urban Bush Women danced that night in a powerful and movh1g performance which left me dancing home, trying to reproduce their incredible energy, strength, beauty and expression. Under the artistic direction of Jawola Willa Jo Zollar, these eight women danced all different aspects of their life experiences ; they danced as girls and as women, as black women living in A111erica, and as human beings struggling in a troubled world. Their first dance was entitled \I Don't Know, But I've Been Told If You Keep On Dancin' You Never Grow Old\. Musically, they were accompanied by David Pleasant, however they basically accompanied TOM ROSS & TRIO Wednesday, May 24@ 7:30pm Performing Arts Studio Jazz Guitar Special Cabaret on Thursday, May 25@ 9:00pm Mrican Music Class Performs together with visiting students from Ghan, along with the live Hamilton Hill Drums. WRUC SHOW PICK-OF-THE-WEEK THE COFFEE BREAK with Ruth Cohen and Donna Lanzandorf Tuesday 10:00-Noon Like a fine wine ... Coffee Break has matured over the span of four years to appeal to the taste of many. Starting with the grounds of classic artists, we perk up your musical mouth with a gamut of tunes spanning the decades, leaving you with a taste of progressive brew. themselves with singing, yelling, foot stomping, hand clapping, and even the sound of their own breathing. This dance showed the rhythm and dance in many parts of children's lives, from jumping rope to cheerleading to strutting down a street. The dancers seemed filled with energy; they excited the audience with their vitality, skill, and obvious enjoyment in what they were doing. A \structured improvisation\ by Jawola Willa Jo Zollar, entitiled \Working For Free\ was next on the program. Alone on a bare stage with no accompaniment, Zollar danced different moods and rhythms, showing, at one point, the difference between the rhythm of New Orleans and that of New York. The audience laughed in recognition of the New Yorker frantically walking through a crowd. Zollar then invited the audience to provide her with \spirits\ to dance. She danced the spirit of \cool\ and \whimsey\ and of \sophistication\ and \sex\, choosing to. dance the latter ' two together. Her dances were great for their simplicity and sense of humor; she slipped in and out of dance, her movements always sensitive to the Ihythm which she showed pervading our lives. wonderfully expressive. One, and then another of the girls became upset; through their movements they showed feelings of alienation and C·onfusion. Tl1ey then comforted ·each other and made up their differences. One girl opened her robe and with obvious relish, she revealed to the others the sexy teddy she was w_earing. For what seemed like a long, tong time, the other three girls laughed at her, hysterically, in incredible slow motion. Moving at a guarter of normal speed, they bent double with laugllter, fell on the ground and rolled with it. Their slow, silent laughter had the entire audience laughing with them-- they were fantastic! Here again, the rhythm of ordinary life could be seen; they were dancing tghe tears and laughter of four adolescent girls at a slamber party. The last dance before the intermission was called \Bitter Tongue\. Part of this dance was done to the traditional music of the Gbaya people of the Central African Republic. The unfamiliar music was interesting and beautiful, and was coupled with an intense dance of women singing of their husbands' bitter tongues. Their pain and outrage and vows of defiance were· all expressed in their dancing and singing. Beginning separated from each other but concluding The third piece performed was called \Girlfriends\. Here we saw four girls at a slumber party. The dancing here was Continued on page 19 ,.---- I I I I THE --- ------ ---, Clip 'N' Save I NEW 8.97 1 Softball is the rage, my friends. Softball, Softball, Softball! The sound of smacking ball on leather. The I slide into second base. Then there's the multitude o' I \refreshments\ to Imbibe while waiting to bat. Sensations I I I I I I I of inevitable victory are as sweet as the 10,000 Maniacs 1 taking the top spot. Thank you. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I Artist 1. 10,000 Maniacs 2. The Cure 3. Indigo Girls 4. The Godfathers 5. FIREHOSE 6. Tom Tom Club 7. The The 12\ B. Simple Minds 8.97 Bob Mould Title A Blind Man's Zoo Disintegration Indigo Girls More Songs About Love & Hate FROM OHIO Boom Boom Chi Boom Boom \The Beat(en) Generation\ Street Fighting Years Workbook I Label 1 Elektra 1 Elektra Epic J Epic J SST Sire I Epic 1 Asm Virgin 1 Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week \Happy\ - P .I.L. I I I I Programming Notes: •Stay tuned for, oh, six hours or so 1 Wednesday, the 24th as Fast Ed counts down I the top 8.97 songs of the school year. I •For those who like to see a newspaper staff rot in the dust, catch the softball game on May 24th. I I I L-- ------------ J

· CONCORDIENSIS May 18., 1989 Page 19 ARTS & ENTE.RTAINMENT \ . . . . ~- . . . •· , Traditional Mbira:· .. \ ; . Let's ExpJo,de With Miracle Legion Music Of Zimb·abwe By KAREN BURNS and BETH FISCHBEIN The first Ea,st Coast :performance -of Mbira music, which is sacred music from Zimbabwe, Africa,. was played by Erica Zundidzora on Monday night in the Arts Building, The \Mbira\ is an unusual instrument commonly_ played by two or three people; however, in her e:xihibition of this instrument, Erica played solo. The instrl.!-ment creates a buzzing sound with a slight hint -of a piano in the background. People usnaHy dance, clap, and sing along with the music; yet our crowd, so enthralled . in the music, only participated upon request. The introductory piece Erica played was called \Living Happily. Free from Fear\ and the second piece,. \Meat and Blood,\ was our personal favorite for not only was it the oldest, but it had ·many versions. The \Taisiveva Mukoma,\ which translates to ''I told you so big brother'\ was the first singalong and the crowd eagerly joined in. This piece was used by ancestors to convey .advic.e which was frequently ignored, and it was also an underground political song sung by blacks to whites during a revolution. Traditionally it is an oral language, but recently the songs hav:e been written down. In the remaining works, each song conveyed. a different message and was· left open for . self-interpretatioen. To close the concert Erica demonstrated. how to play the instrument and highlighte.d tlre techniques involved that make it difficult to learn. -The concert was delightful.and if anybody has the opportnnit:y to p<l!'ticipate in a Mbira cotlc.ert we highly ·. recommend it. By RON EUGENIO Miracle Legion, the four- piece band from Rough Trade Records, will be the headlining band for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. Their latest release, \Me and Mr. Ray,\' topped the WRUC 8.97 recently. The group started in 1984, and released three albums..,\Back Yards,\ \Surprise \ and \Glad\ until , . . two members left. The remaining two, Mark Mulcahy and (Mister) Ray Neal, went on and released the aforementioned · number one .album. For the tour, Mulcahy and Neal picked up a bassist (Davy Mac) and a drummer with a canine moniker (Spot) . Mulcahy is glad to be both out on tour and \being in a band again.\ This tour has taken them to gynmasiums, small stadiums. and in one unique case, to a mall \at the bottom of the escalator.\ For Mulcahy, it doesn't matter what size the crowd is as long as it's a · reCeptive <me. Urban Bush Women Continued from page 18 together, the women were anguished · but strong. Watching them dance I could feel the emotions which mu·st be shared world wide by oppresssed wives, wdmen whose husbands tongu.es are bitten. \'· '· . · . . . ..... \Lipstick\ was the frrst dance performed afte,r the intermission. This dance was accompanied by both talking and singing. It began with young women .putting on and rejqicing in lipstick. In the course of the dance, the women competed for a man, they loved him and lost him; they became aware of themselves as sexual beings in- relation to men. Toward the end of this piece, the women returned to singing about the lost man and their lipstick. By now they had become angry, as if their consciousness had been raised to the reality of their situation as women in society. As the .. dance concluded, they were wiping off their lipstick and hitting their chests in gestures which said, \Me Not the Lipstick! Forget the lipstick! Me!\ This piece was followd by another solo by Jawola Willa Jo Zollar called \Madness\. She spoke a text and danced the action and emotions accompanying it. It was a story of a bl~k woman watching the taxis pass her by because of her color, and thinking of how they had passed. by her mother and grandmother, and were now passing by not only herself, but her daughter as well. Zollar danced with-adry humor and an undisguised bitterness at the ridiculons injustice of her situation. The last, longest, and definitely mos.tpowerful dance performed by Urban 'Bush Women was entitled \Shelter\. It was performed by the entire company accompanied by David Pleasant playing drulllS and a variety of other instru.ments (including his voice). andJawola WillaJo Zollar readin~ from different texts. \Shelter\ began witlt the plight of the homeless. The dancers were separated from each othe:r on stage, occasionally corning together and supporti.n:g each other only to separate again. They were desparate, on :t!te edge of losing control, running around the stage, jumpi!lg up only to fall back to the ground. Their expressions ()f fear and horror and desperation were incredible; as I watched them I was upset and fearfal. The text spoke of, how close we all Could be to losing the balance of life and falling illto homelessness, despair, a terrible existence. Gradually, the dance slowed. The women rose and fell with less strength, they came together still literally shaking with fear, but perhaps unable to fight anymore. And, here the text changed from the personal to the global. Zollar was · reading of the death of the Brazilian rain forests, termed \the death of birth\; she read a · list of elldangered species, ending· with human beings. The dance moved from the individual and personal to a gronp of writhing people; the fear moved from every woman personally to the entire race and the entire .planet. This dance was fantastic; its movements were incredible and impressive while its message was nnmistakable and frightening. After this performance, the company was met with an immediate standing ovation from an obviously moved and impressed audience. My friends and I left the theater and headed back to campus. We danced up State Street. Or at least we tried. We stamped and clapped and yelled and jumped and · wished that we, like Urban Bush Women, could · powerfully express ourselves . through movement and sound. May 201h, 8 p .. m. College Atrium Giorgio Armani Fiorucci Benetton Missoni The Gap Gantos Esprit and mo.re!! Conte and Experience the International Fashion Show Expect a show that, at the same time, shows flashes of · the band's past as well as the gro11p's future direction. They plan to cull songs from their jangly earlier material as well as :the rich acoustic tracks from \Me & Mr. Ray,\ including \Yon're the One, Lee\ and \The Ladies From Town.\ Also expec~ a killer remake of \Academy Fight Song\ by Mission of Burma. This is the same song R.E.M. performs on their current Green Tour. But most of all, expect to see a lot of intensity and energy. This is Miracle Legion's final date on their tour; and Mark Mulcahy has one personal motto for the day: \Let's explode.\ The Storm Continues. • • Continued from page 17 sarcasm and wit as tWo extreme personalities confront each other in a small remote c<»ttage. The basis of the plot is simple. One man is a \painter\, the other a \stranger\, and in the course of aa evening they become friends. In the opening scene, Vassalo dips his hands in blue paint and then places his palms · 011 the firm breasts of a mannequin .. As he continues to p():r:tray this existential painter, he brings to light the eccentric nature of this character throllgh gesture, eye contact, and of C()u.rse, dialogue. Lopiano, C()nservatively dressed in a plaid shirt and khakis served as a :POignant contrast to the free- S})irited \painter\. Over wine aad spaghetti they spend an evening immersed· in ccnvers a tion about homosexuality, marriage, divorce, and fantasies. During the course of such interaction they exchange verbal portraits of themselves, and at the end of the play they embrace. As the play ends the audience is left to ponder the events which have taken place during the evening .. We are not sure what is to become of these men, but we appreciate the realtionship they have established. The actors in this play, in combination with an excellent script. put on a powerful performance to end the night. Credit is due to all those who were involved in putting the show together. The lighting crew, sound design, and especially the actors, actresses, and playwrights deserve applause in getting this first of its kind production off paper and onto the stage. lrJWEi~'i'-f£(3WsaU;dis1ingtiished ·Profe·ssor of ... ··. . . -··and· Medi:evat t.iterature at Harvard ':::t~al;rJt, 1 \gifit open to the . , @eflittf.d pubRo Qrl , .,

CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Page 19 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT , ~ , Traditional Mbira: Let's Explode With Miracle Legion Music Of Zimbabwe By KAREN BURNS and BETH FISCHBEIN The first East Coast performance ·of Mbira music, which is sacred music from Zimbabwe, Africa, was played by Erica Zundidzora on Monday night in the Arts Building, The \Mbira\ is an unusual instrument commonly played by two or three people; however, in her exhibition of this instrument, Erica played solo. The instrument creates a buzzing sound with a slight hint of a piano ia the background. People usually dance, clap, and sing along with the music; yet our crowd, so enthralled in the music, only participated upon request The introductory piece Erica played was called \Living Happily Free from Fear\ and the second piece, \Meat and Blood,\ was our personal favorite for not only was it the oldest, but it had many versions. The \Taisiveva Mukoma,\ which translates to \I told you so big brother\ was the first singalong and the crowd eagerly joined in. This piece was used by ancestors to convey advice which was frequently ignored, and it was also an underground political song sung by blacks to whites during a revolution. Traditioaally it is an oral language, but recently the songs have been written down. In the remaining works, each song conveyed a different message and was left open for self-interpretation. To close the concert Erica demonstrated how to play the instrument and highlighted the techniques involved that make it difficult to learn. The concert was delightful and if anybody has the opportunity to participate in a Mbira concert we highly recommend it By RON EUGENIO Miracle Legion, the four- piece band from Rough Trade Records, will be the headlining band for Fitzhugh Ludlow Day. Their latest release, \Me and Mr. Ray,\ topped the WRUC 8.97 receatly. The group started in 1984, and released three albums-\Back Yards,\ \Surprise and \Glad until two members left. The remaining two, Mark Mulcahy and (Mister) Ray Neal, went on and released the aforementioned number one album. For the tour, Mulcahy and Neal picked up a bassist (Davy Mac) aNd a drummer with a canine moniker (Spot). Mulcahy is glad to be both out on tour and \being in a band again.\ This tour has taken them to gynmasiums, small stadiums, and in one unique case, to a mall \at the bottom of the escalator.\ For Mulcahy, it doesn't matter what size the crowd is as long as it's a receptive one. Urb.an Bush Women Continued from page 18 together, the women were anguished · but strong. Watching them dance I could feel the emotions which must be shared world wide by oppresssed wives, women whose husbands tongues are bitter. \Lipstick\ was the ftrst dance performed after the intermission. This dance was accompanied by both talking and singing. It began with young women putting on and rejqicing in lipstick. In the course of the dance, the women competed for a man, they loved him and lost him; they became aware of themselves as sexual beings in relation to men. Toward the end of this piece, the women returned to singing about the lost man and their lipstick. By now they had become angry, as if their consciousness had been raised to the reality of their situation as women in society. As the dance concluded, they were wiping off their lipstick and hitting their chests in gestures which said, \Me Not the lipstick! Forget the lipstick! Me!\ This piece was followd by another solo by Jawola Willa Jo Zollar called \Madness\. She spoke a text and danced the action and emotions accompanying it. It was a story of a black woman watching the taxis pass her by because of her color, and thinking of how they had passed by her mother and grandmother, and were now passing by not only herself, but her daughter as well. Zollar danced with a dry humor and an undisguised bitterness at the ridiculous injustice of her situation. The last, longest, and definitely most powerful dance performed by Urban Bush Women was entitled \Shelter\, It was performed by the entire company accompanied by David Pleasant playing drums and a variety of other instruments (including his voice), and Jawola Willa Jo Zollar reading from different texts. \Shelter\ began with the plight of the homeless. The dancers were separated from each other on stage, occasionally coming together and supporting each other only to separate again. They were desparate, on the edge of losing control, running around the stage, jumping up only to fall back to the ground. Their expressions of fear and horror and desperation were incredible; as I watched them I was upset and fearfuL The text spoke of how close we all could be to losing the balance of life and falling into homelessness, despair, a terrible existence. Gradually, the dance slowed. The women rose and fell with less strength, they came together still literally shaking with fear, but perhaps unable to fight anymore. And, here the text changed from the personal to the globaL Zollar was reading of the death of the Brazilian rain forests, termed \the death of birth\; she read a list of endangered species, ending with human beings. The dance moved from the individual and personal to a group of writhing people; the fear moved from every woman personally to the entire race and the entire planet This dance was fantastic; its movements were incredible and impressive while its message was unmistakable and frightening. After this performance, the company was met with an immediate standing ovation from an obviously moved and impressed audience. My friends and I left the theater and headed back to campus. We danced up State Street. Or at least we tried. We stamped and clapped and yelled and jumped and · wished that we, like Urban Bush Women, could powerfully express ourselves . through movement and sound. May 20th, 8 p.m. College Atrium Giorgio Armani Fiorucci Benetton Missoni The Gap Gantos Esprit and more!! Come and Experience the International Fashion Show .. ~· Expect a show that, at the same time, shows flashes of the band's past as well as the group's future direction. They plan to cull songs from their jangly earlier material as well as the rich acoustic tracks from \Me & Mr. Ray,\ including \You're the One, Lee\ and \The Ladies From Town.\ Also expect a killer remake of \Academy Fight Song\ by Mission of Burma. This is the same song R.E.M. performs on their current Green Tour. But most of all, expect to see a lot of intensity and energy. This is Miracle Legion's final date on their tour; and Mark Mulcahy has one personal motto for the day: \Let's explode.\ The Storm Continues. • • Continued from page 17 sarcasm and wit as two extreme personalities confront each other in a small remote cottage. The basis of the plot is simple. One man is a \painter\, the other a \stranger\, and in the course of an evening they become friends. In the opening scene, Vassalo dips his hands in blue paint and then places his palms on the firm breasts of a mannequin. As he continues to portray this existential painter, he brings to light the eccentric nature of this character through gesture, eye contact, and of course, dialogue. Lopiano, conservatively dressed in a plaid shirt and khakis served as a poignant contrast to the free- spirited \painter\, Over wine and spaghetti they spend an evening immersed in conversation about homosexuality, marriage, divorce, and fantasies. During the course of such interaction they exchange verbal portraits of themselves, and at the end of the play they embrace. As the play ends the audience is left to ponder the events which have taken place during the evening. We are not sure what is to become of these men, but we appreciate the realtionship they have established. The actors in this play, in combination with an excellent script, put on a powerful performance to end the night Credit is due to all those who were involved in putting the show together. The lighting crew, sound design, and especially the actors, actresses, and playwrights deserve applause in getting this first of its kind production off paper and onto the stage. Derek Pearsall, distinguished Professor of Chaucer and Medieval Literature at Harvard University, will be giving a lecture open to the general public on Friday, May 19, at 4:30 p.m . in Humanities 115 .. The title of his talk Is: \The Book of the Tales o1 Canterburt'. Professor Pearsall is author of numerous articles and books, most recently The Canterbury Tales, and has lectured widely in America, Europe, and England, where he held a chair of Medieval Literature at York University for many years.

I i. CONCORDIENSJS May 18, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS Folk Group-· ·All singers CLUB NEWS and musicians interested in ----------- . being part of the Music Campus Ministry . Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Protestant ·Sunday Mass please meet at · 6:30 p.m. in the church to · . rehearse. _ -A Plateful of Ques- .. Confirmation-Saturday, tions discussion series con- . • May 20th at 5:30 p.m. the tinues to meet on Tuesday , following Union students will afternoons from 12:00:-12:45 in be confirmed hy Bishop the fourth floor lounge of the ··Hubbard at St. John the CC. Please bring your lunch. Evangelist Church: Shannon -Bible study meets in CC Bayreuther, Jennifer Johnson, 205 from 11:.30-12:45 on . Kyle King, Teresa Sanchez. Thursday afternoons. The Union Community are -Sunday worship con- . cordially invited to join them tinues on Sunday evenings. at this 5:30 p.m. Mass and Please contact Tammy (386- : l reception that will follow in 4371) or Barb (x6885) for more . the school hall. information. Merton tapes-Friday, May 19 at Noon. All are welcome to bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404B. Newman Picnic-Monday, May 22nd from 5-7 p.m. at Dutch Hollow Patio, or in case of rain Cabaret Pit for Union students, faculty, staff and their families. please RSVP by Friday, May 19th to Sr. Joan's office (370-6087). Leave natne and number attending. Eucharistic Ministers-· A workshop for those interested ; in becoming Eucharistic Ministers will be given by Sr. Joan, Thursday, May 25th in· the Rectory from 7-9 p.m.' Union students may contact Sr .. Joan to register. On Sunday,· May 28th at all the Masses for the Feast of Corpus Christi all old and new Eucharistic Ministers will be com- missioned for '89-'90. Catholic Vid~o Series- Tuesdays from 4:30-5:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231. CLASSIFIEDS. 1--------1 Want(!d female roommate to share 3-bedtoom townhouse. Available June, in Waltham, MA. Off InterState 128. Please call (617) 899-3380. Looking to sublet an apartment. 2-3 person, located on University. End of June to end of August. Call Gretchen or Missa at 386-4427. Affordable One or Two Person Townhouse for summer sublet. •100 yds. from campus •fully furnished •dishwasher and many appliances included. •private parking lot and laundry facilities •very safe area, quiet and clean. If interested please call Brian and Marty at 3374-2939. Looking to sublet 3-4 person apartment for the summer. Great location, near campus. If interested please call Lisa, Kristen, or Ann at 374- 8984. Wanted! Roommate to share apartment next year. 3 bedrooms Carrie St. Close to campus. Call Molly 386-4083 or Dave 386All0. Third floor studio apartment available for female TAKE SOME TIME ON THURSDAY, MAY 18, AND CELEBRATE THE NOTT MEMORIAL. ·Submit your Term Abroad pictures to the Yearbook. Drop them off in cc 40·8. border. House shared with but my heart lurches out family. Kitcllen and bathroom ·. lustingly toward you. privileges. One block from xox,o Linton Higb· School on Waverly Pl. Call AI Hutson 372-3565. SUMMER JOBS: Spend your summer llelping protect NY Environmental future. The environmentaL planning lobby is now filling summer positions. Eal'n $200-500 ' Steph, How many pairs of shoes can timid Tim buy over Parents' Weekend if he didn't divorce himself from the situation? It was a blast. Love,. Lisa d&llars a week while working I wantedto kiss him, but I to pass vital' environmeRtal didn't. legislation. :Paid training, benefits, work. hrs. 2-10 p.m. · Call 462-55264 House sitter a vailabte May·August. Ptof\{ssional. For information call 346-2034 .. Ask for Joan. 1 · Duplex Van Vranken Ave near campus. 3 BR up, 3 BR · down, nice. U:nfurnished, year • lease, security. Avail. May '89. . 456-3548. PERSONALS Dalt, I hope its not as. bad as you said. Good luCk. Love, Nan FOUND: One partner fortb.e Norfork County Jugglers. WAN'IED: Another partner, not from · Norwood. Look Cowboy, I thought you were doing it alone. Who is the new black haired philly. Tom Fallati, I'm too timid t<J approach you, To the Bank ef Missa,.. Thanks for subsidizing a great weekend. Baking the wedding · cake was a thrill - I hope to do more baking with you in the future - p~rhaps in a travel villa. . A2 .. ' \ ~ ARE YOU H-NEE??? -Wickerbasket case of beer · Pomroy, Happy 21st Birthday. Eileen 'Bud 8? Braun .families .. Thanks for a terrific weekend even if you did buy out the entire City of Schenectady. We love you:, the daughters, ·Lisa & St:eph · : Norcyleptic B:mos, · Get ready for an amazing DG . . Olympics. Don't forget. the, : Cocktail party beforehand · Svveeney CORRECTIONS TO THE SPRING 1988·89 FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE MONDAY, JUNE 5 • 8:30-10:30 AM . EC0-053-01 - The Econ()my of China - B. Reynolds - SSCI 012 PHL-076-01- Change room to HUMN 117 SOC-157-01 =Work HST-115 shouold become HST-120 MONDAY, JUNE 5 • 11:15 AM-1:15 PM CER-02.0'-01 - Land Measurements • JPN-OlQ,QL -Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 110 MONDAY, JUNE 5 • 2:00-4:00 PM PR.N-141-01 -French Philosophical Prose- L Day.- SSCI 213 PHY -12.6-0 1 - Nuclear &. Particle Physics - R. Magahiz - NWSE 112 TUESDAY, :TUNE 6 • 9:00-11:00 AM CHM-134-~01 - Organic Chemistry ill- L. McGahey- S1ZH 108 PHY-Ol ~..()3 • IntrOduction to Physics ~ K. Schick - NWSE 114 SPN-011-()1 - Basic Spanish ll - R. Vinick - HUMN 11C5 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 • 1:00-3:00 PM ARS-133-()1-ModemART, Partll BIO..()lg,Dl - Introductioll to l)iology II- M. Frohlich- SSCI 016 CER-035-()1 -Water ReS<>urces & Environment- P. Snow- BUTR 106 GER-121..()1-.J.ntermediiUe German II, D. Lund, SSCI 105 . SOC-024..()1 - Social Jlsychology • K. DeBono - PYCH 102 WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 - 8:30·10:30 AM EGL-()56.()1 ·Shakespeare After 1600 - WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 • 2:00·4:00 PM . CSC-010-01 - Computers and Computing - G. Marten - SS<?J 010 . Add: EC0-033-01 -Public Pclicy & Amer Industry -D. Klem • SSCI 103 ECO-OSl,()l - (the BC0-033 listing should be changed to EC0-051) PHY -054'-()1 - Statistical Thennodyn~ics - G. Reich • NWSE 303 Add: PHY-140-01 - Quantum Mclicanics - S. Maleki::: BAIL 205 PSY-047-0l- In!ro to Health Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 THURSDAY;. JUN.E 8 • '.J:00-11:00 AM . MTH-O~l-01 -Math Metl!ods Social Science 2 - A. Taylor -BAIL 100 MTif -o~r..:()2 - Math Metbods &cial Science 2 - J.llefferson - BAIL 203 MTH-021-03 - Math Metl!ods Social Science 2 - A. Prindle -BAIL 312 THURSDAY, JUNE 8 • 1:00.3:00 PM · CHM·Ol2-02 - Fundamet'ltal Chemistry ll • W. Martin- BUTR. 300 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH THE EVENING DIVISION SECTiON: MONDAY, JUNE 5 • 4:3fl-6:30 PM . CSC~017-m -Data Structures· L SpallhQlz- NWSE 11fi . I TUESDAY, JtTNE 6 • 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-144-01 - Functional Pr.oaranunlftg • N.M. Mazur - NWSE 112 f

Page 20 CONCORDIENSTS May 18, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS Folk Group-AU singers and musicians interested in being part ()( the Music Campus Ministry Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Protesta11 t Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. -A Plateful of Qu~s- · CDnfirmatien-S aturday, tions discussion series con- 1 • May 20th at 5:30 p.m. the tinues to meet on Tuesday . follow~ng Union students will afternoons from 12:00-12:45 in ·be confirmed by Bishop the fourth floor lounge of the . Hubbard at St. John the CC. Please bring your lunch. . Evangelist Church: Shannon -Hible study meets in. CC Bayreuther, Jeanifer Johnson, 205 from 11:30-12:45 ()n Kyle King, Te:t:esa Sanchez. Thursday afternoons. The Union Community are -Sunday worship co11- cordially invite<l to join them tinues on Sunday evenings. · at this 5:30 ]!l.m. Mass and Please contact Tammy (386- 1 reception that will follow in 4371) or Barb (x6885) for more the school hall. information. Merton tapes-Friday. May 19 at Noon. All are welcome to bring brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton tape in CC404B. Newman Picnic-Mond2y, May 22nd from 5-7 p.m. a~ Dutch Hollow Patio, or in ca.se of rain Cabaret Pit for Union students, faculty~ staff and their families. please RSVP by Friday, May 19th to Sr. Joan's office (370-6087). Leave nanne and number atte11ding. Eucharistic Ministers-A workshop for tl1ose interested . in becoming Eucharistic Ministers will be given by Sr. Joan, Thursday. May 25th :in the Rectory fr<Jm 7-9 p.In. · Union students may contact Sr .. Joan to register. On Sunday, May 28th at alltb.e Masses for the Feast of Corpus Christi all old and new Eucharistk Mini~ters will be com- missioned for '89-'90. Catholic Vid~o Series- Tuesdays from 4:30-5:00 p.m. and Wednesdays at Noon in CC404B. All are welcome. Tutoring-Union College students can be used in lhe following areas at St. Johu's , School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231. 1 CLASSIFfEDS. ! ------------------- Wanted femal<e roommate to share 3-bedroom townhouse. Available June, in Waltham, MA. Off Interstate 128. Please caH (617) 899-33.8(). Leoking te subJ.et an apartment. 2-3 person, located on University. End of June to end of August. Call Gretchen or Missa at 38()-44.27. Affordable Om~ or Two Person Tow11bouse for sN.mmer sublet. •100 yds. from campus •fully furnished •dishwasher and many appliances inclu<led. •private parking lot and laundry facilities •very safe area, qlliet and clean. If interested pl{;ase call Brian and Marty at 33 74-2939. Looking to sublet 3 -4 person apartment for the summer. Great location, near campus. If interested please call Lisa, Kristen, or Ann at 374- 8984. Wa11ted! Roommate to share apartment nex:t year. 3 bedrooms Carrie St. Close to campus. Call MoUy 386-4083 or Dave 386-4110. Third fi()()J' studio apartment available for female TAKE SOME TIME ON THURSDAY, MAY 18, AND CELEBRATE THE NOTT MEMORIAL. Submit your Term Abroad pictures to the Yearbook. Drop them off in cc 408. border. House shared with family. Kitchen and bathroom privi1leges. One block from Linton High School on Waverly Pl. Call Al Hutson 372-3565. SUMMER JOBS: Spend your summer helping protect NY Environmental futwe. The environmental planning lobby is now filling summer positions. Earn $200-500 dollars a week while working to pass vital environmental legislation. Paid tmining, benefits, work hrs. 2-10 p.m. Cal 462-5526. Hous,esHter available May-August. Prof(}ssional. For information call 346-2034. Ask for Joan. , Duplex Van Vranken Ave near campus. 3 BR up, 3 BR down, nice. Unfurnished, year lease, security. Avail. May '89. 456-3548. PERSONALS Dalt, I hope its not as bad as you said. Good luck. Love, Nan FOUND: One partner for the Norfork County Jugglers. WANTED: Another partner, not from Norwood. Look Cowboy, I thought you were doing it alone. Who is the new black haired philly. Tom Fallati, I'm too timid to approach you, . but my heart lurches out lastingly toward you. Steph, x.o.xo How many pairs of shoes e:an timid Tim buy over Pareot:s 1 Weekend if he didn't divarce himself from ~he situation?' lt was a blast. Love, Lisa I wanted to kiss him, but I didn't. To the Bank of Missa- Thank:s for subsidizingagreat weekend. Baking the woodi~g cake was a thrill - I hope t(:)do · mor.e baking with you i~ the future - perhaps in. a travel viUa. A2- ARE YOU H-NEE??? -Wickerbasket case of beer Pomroy, Happy 21stBitthday. Eileen Bud & Brn11n families- Thanks for a terrific weekend even if yo11 did buy out the entire City {)f Schenectady. We love ym1, the daughters, Lisa & Steph Norcyl'eptic: Emos, Get ready for an amazing DG Olympics. Don't forget the Cocktail .party beforehand. Sweeney CORRECTIONS TO THE S,PRING 1988-89 FINAL EXAM S<:l!EDULE MONDAY, JUNE 5 - 8:30-10:30 AM EC0-053-01 -The Economy of China -B. Reynolds - SSCI 012 PHL-076-01 -Change room to IIUMN 117 SOC-157-01 =Work HST-115 sh<mold become HST-120 MONDAY, JUNE 5 - 11:15 AM-1:15 PM CER-020-01 - Land Measurements • JPN-01 0-01 -Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa- HUMN 110 MONDAY, JUNE 5 - 2:00-4:00 PM FRN-141-01 -French Philosophical Prose- L. Day. - SSCI 213 PHY -126-01 -Nuclear & Particle Physics · R. Magahiz - NWSE llt TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 9:00-11:00 AM CHM-134-01 -Organic Chemistry lli- L. McGahey- S'IZH 1()18 PHY-013-03 -Introduction to Physics - K. Schick- NWSE 114 SPN-011-01 -Basic Spanish li - R. Vinick- HUMN 116 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 1:00-3:00 PM ARS-133-01 -Modem ART, Part II BI0-018-01 -Introduction to Biology II- M. Frohlich- SSCI Olti CER-035-01 -Water Resources & Environment- P. Snow- BU'IR.106 GER-121-01 -Intermediate GermM II, D. Lund, SSCI 105 SOC-024-01 - Social Psychology • K. DeBono - PYCH 1()2 WEDNESI>AY, JUNE 7 • 8:30-1():30 AM EGL-056-01 -Shakespeare After 1600- WEDNESDAY, JUNE 7 • 2:00-4:00 PM CSC-(}1 0-01 - Computers and Computing - G. Marten - SSCI 0:1~ Add: EC0-033-01- Public Policy& Amer Industry- D. Klein -SSiCI 103 EC0-051-01 -(the EC0-033 listing should be changed to EC0-()51) PHY-054-01 - Statistical Thermvdynamics - G. Reich • NWSE 3Q3 Add: PHY-140-01 -Quantum Mel!canics- S. Maleki =BAIL 205 PSY-047-01 - Intro to Health Psy-chology- C. Weisse - PYCH 113 THURSDAY, JUNE S • 9:00-11:0() AM MTH -021-01 - Math Methods Social Science 2 - A. Taylor -BA.IL il.OO MTH -021-02- Math Methods Social Science 2 - J. Hefferson - JlAIL 203 MTH-021-03- Math Methods Social Science 2- A. Prindle -BAIIL 3i12 THURSDAY, JUNE S - 1:00-3:00 PM CHM-012-02- Fundamental Chemistry li- W. Martin- BUTR 300 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMM()N EXAM WITH TlfE EVENING DIVISION SECTION: MONDAY, JUNE S • 4:30·6:3() PM CSC-077-01 -Data Structures- L. Spallholz- NWSE 116 TUESDAY, JUNE 6 - 4:30-6:30 PM CSC-144-01 - Functional Prognmming - N.M. Mazur - NWSE 112 f \ j! I I I I ,I i i I

CONCORDIENSlS May 18, 198!1 CAMPUS NEWS , PERSONALS '-· ·Gabrielle, Satur~y night was not a ¥ ou~re right, it was a bizarre •. weekend. We l()ve our family- dream. ·But lt was definitelY · Love, Mom andA.J. • To my Honey, . . Happy Birthday! Ihope it's a great day. Just be\Vare because I'Jil.notafraid to rub your fur the wrong way! IIave fun! -<.T-uess Who? • RISA, · Anymore vedka'? heaven. I hope to see y()u again . Bill, . at my bOuse. but stay away · Can we just go to a movie this SL . from my brother. week?· · . Long Live Ray tile Seal! ! ! . Amanda- Times up, Here I come! Chris<l- J~st smilei dear. Mark J '· . Seth- Your ~partmen~ will never be thesame. . . . · -~en andJanet : HeyRM; Are you up for Friday night Island hopping? A.nybody else care to join us? Stef · · _-:::1:1-o-~an=-· -of:-'th:-'o ..... s-'-e-w-:-h'\'\o\t\ 1 ;a~do-- ...... pted,__ ~- ,.:- .. Hope, Jen and Tracey, I'm glad we finally have our apartment! I know that it will all work out and be great! But, who has a couch? Love, Wendy Becky and Jane, . · I missed hanging out with you • last weekend. This weekend · definitely! Bye Bye! Love, wendy ·. Liza, I hope you're looking forward to our dinner witb Mark and ·. Cory! Hopefully it won't be too out of control! Love, Wendy . Chri$ and Jim- What's your point? me for Parent's Weekend: Seems like yesterday we were · · · outlining your body in_powder! . · ·ThankS aga'in! r really Jen, Michael. Zeller· Upfor a game ofstupid-portg? Ninji, Ninji,- Oops, that's King Ninji .. To the Multi-colored sister- \ Good luck with those of us in . black next year, Mr. Bunch- Get ready for a summer and a winter in black. . • appreciate it! . . It was great starting my 4 years -:Leslie (The Ot:phan} • w.ith yoa!! Thanksf()r the- memories. My little puppy! .Kathy ' I.W.L.y. and A,Y. and W.Y P .. ·• Meg- .and E. with all M.H. and S. Congrats on ECA..C'sl 'Track is You make -my heart b~ wike atlnpst over, mayllethen we'll · fiwel · 1 have some fun! L. ofL, J . .Love 1 Wendy LZ, Hallie,. Peut-etre c'est le finl! There Thanks for calling! l Just will never be words... • · kidding I still love you! •Lots of love, KC. · · Wendy Your bad week is over! Look .forward to afun weekend! Love, Wendy APU- Who's the chainnan? Nice · cover-up! Who you tryin' to · kid. anyway? Love, RS DearSippy, Thanks for the ice cream, cheese-n-crackers and beer on ..:Tfie Sisters · my shirt. What a way to start ,........., _________ ....__ ...... ....__.. _______ ,......._ _______ .....,\'\'1 · the week. Delta Gamma proudl·y announces the resu1ts of th.eir Greek ''Win, Lose, or Dr-aw\ . 1st p·lace: Delta Psi·- Delta .. 2nd place: Sigma Delta Tau 3rd p.lace: Ph:i Gamma Delta Cong.ra,tu I allo-ns! Special Thanks to Sheila Henni;gan, Chuck · McGavern, Jerri Clark .and Dean Alford Gulpie The Phantom, watch out for those early morning policeman. Snoozie Allison, Corey. Laura, Next titne you h()ld a concert at Fiji, watch out f()r flying Chi Psi beer. Senior Tri-Deltas~ Anyone for a fuzz:y navel shot and a game ofAli Baba? Page 21 Baby, I don't have any shirts without stains on it anymore, nor do I . have a job. Boogerman says Hello. Love, Now and Later j 1941bs. · , I got it! 2 bills by Camp Union? The name is n<>t Sphincter . Brandywine ... the Knott .. the typing room ... the U .. .IHOP ... the elevator ... the Idol. •. tour of duty ... hattrick central. •. only 24 .days left! Move it, or Lose it! ! Hey Hickey- Work on a senior while I'm away on the biggest weekend of the year! Say Hi to Hurky and watch my gear! Keep UP the good work! Yes, Hallo. Practice safety. Sheila,. If we had only six dollars, I would steal it and buy us beer. If you were an alcoholic you would know how I feel! From Dangler Chris Mad-d()g, Thanks for everything. I really, really, really like you! Stef P.S. Dinner at Maris, again? This time use the emergency brake!! Tangerine, Remember .•. no guy is ever worth losing your cookies over! Get pumped for a great summer and next yeat! Movie and bagels this Sunday? -Your new found buddy Mudpack, Happy 20th!!! (Just think- only 1 1/2 months 'til you're _legal!). Have a great day, Roomie! Love ya! Soup Margarita, Esta semana la pregunta es ... debo escribir o no debo escribir. SuCadera SQUIRRELS BEWARE .... There's a sniper running loose. Tracy, Tofutti or bust! -the headhunter flood committee Tracy Reynolds, Take the pants and wear them or lose him forever! -Those who miss Tofutti Lisa S- The term is almost over. When is dinner? I Love you. -Keny WATSON MEETING TUESDAY, MAY 23 7:30PM ..

.I CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Gabrielle, Saturday night was not a dream. But it was definitely heaven. I hope to see you again at my house, but stay away from my brother. Amanda- Times up, Here I come! Chris G.- Just smile, dear. Chris and Jim- What's your point? Michael Zeller- Mark Up for a game of stupid-pong? Ninji, Ninji,- Oops, That's King Ninji. To the Multi-colored sister- Good luck with those of us in black next year. Mr. Bunch- Get ready for a summer and a winter in black. -The Sisters You're right, it was a bizarre weekend. We love our family- Love, Mom and A.J. Bill, To my Honey, Happy Birthday! I hope it's a great day. Just beware because I'm not afraid to rub your fur the wrong way! Have fun! -Guess Who? RISA, Anymore vodka? SL Can we just go to a movie this week? 1 Long Live Ray the Seal ! ! ! Seth- Your apartment win never be the same. J• -Karen and Janet To all of those who \adopted\ me for Parent's Weekend: Thanks again! I really appreciate it! -Leslie (The Orphan) My little puppy! I.W.L.Y. and A.Y. and W.Y.F. and E. with all M.H. and S. You make my heart bum wike fiwe! L. ofL, J ·• LZ, Peut-etre c'est le fin!! There will never be words ... -Lots oflove, KC Hey RM, Are you up for Friday night Island hopping? Anybody else care to join us? Stef Hope, Seems like yesterday we were outlining your body in powder! It was great starting my 4 years with you!! Thanks for the memories. -Kathy Meg- Congrats on ECAC's! Track is almost over, maybe then we'll have some fun! Love, Wendy Hallie, Thanks for calling! ! Just kidding I still love you! Wendy Delta Gamma proudly announces the results of their Greek \Win lose, or Draw'' 1st place: 2nd place: 3rd place: Delta Psi . Delta Sigma Delta Tau Phi Gamma Delta Congratulations! Special Thanks to Sheila Hennigan, Chuck McGavern, Jerri Clark and Dean Alford Jen and Tracey, I'm glad we finally have our apartment! I know that it will all work out and be great! But, who has a couch? Love, Wendy Becky and Jane, I missed hanging out with you last weekend. This weekend definitely! Bye Bye! Love, wendy Liz a, I hope you're looking forvvard to our dinner with Mark and Cory! Hopefully it won't be too out of control! Love, Wendy Jen, Your bad week is over! Look forward to a fun weekend! Love, Wendy APU- Who's the chairman? Nice cover-up! Who you tryin' to kid, anyway? Love, RS DearSippy, Thanks for the ice cream. cheese-n-crackers and beer on my shirt. What a way to start the week. Gulpie The Phantom, watch Ollt for those early morning policeman. Snoozie Allison, Corey, Laura, Next time you hold a concert at Fiji, watch out for flying Chi Psi beer. Senior Tri-Deltas, Anyone for a fuzzy navel shot and a game of Ali Baba? Page 21 Baby, I don't have any shirts without stains on it anymore, nor do I have a job. Boogerman says Hello. Love, Now and Later i 194 lbs. . I got it! 2 bills by Camp Union? The name is not Sphincter. Brandywine ... the Knott ... the typing room ... the U .. .IHOP ... the elevator ... the Idol... tour of duty ... hattrick central...only 24 days left! Move it, or Lose it! ! Hey Hickey- Work on a senior while I'm away on the biggest weekend of the year! Say Hi to Hurky and watch my gear! Keep UP the good work! Yes, Hallo. Practice safety. Sheila, If we had only six dollars, I would steal it and buy us beer. If you were an alcoholic you would know how I feel! From Dangler Chris Mad-dog, Thanks for everything. I really, really, really like you! Stcf P.S. Dinner at Maris, again? This time use the emergency brake!! Tangerine, Remember ... no guy is ever worth losing your cookies over! Get pumped for a great summer and next year! Movie and bagels this Sunday? -Your new found buddy Mudpack, Happy 20th!!! (Just think- only 1 1/2 months 'til you're legal!). Have a great day, Roomie! Love ya! Soup Margarita, Esta semana la pregunta es ... dcbo cscribir o no debo escribir. Su Cadcra SQUIRRELS BEWARE .... There's a sniper running loose. Tracy, Tofutti or bust! -the headhunter flood committee Tracy Reynolds, Take the pants and wear them or lose him forever! -Those who miss Tofutti Lisa S- The term is almost over. When is dinner? I Love you. -Keny WATSON MEETING TUESDAY, MAY 23 7:30PM -

CONCORDlENSIS May 18, 1989 Page 22 Softball .Marathon May 22 and 23 Any and all teams welcome H For information on how to enter call 372~ 8292 / Proceeds to benefit a$k for Sonny 8 American Cancer Society Sponsored by the New Yo.rk Beta·Chapter of Phi Delta Theta at Union College ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE VOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237-9012 ROI has excellent part-time and full-time positiQns available working with adults with developmental · • disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting. Work with a professional team while, providing assistance and supervision in the areas of daily living skills, socialization and recreation. Flexible hours on weekday evenings, overnights and weekends. · Earn between $5.50 and $€.25 pwer hour plus holiday bonus incentive (part·time wages). Full-time salaries s·tart at $13,500; plus full benefits. STARfYOURCAREER INHUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient · locations. Call for information. ResidEntial Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service Agency located in the Albany area. Residential. Opportunities, Inc. 73 Co.ngress St. Cohoes, NY 120~7 (518) 237-9012 At The College Bookstore College Center, Union College Ifs never been difficult for students to convince their parents of the need for a Macintosh® compu· ter at school. do is fill it out, .sign, it, and send it. If they qualify,. they'll receive a check for you in just a few weeks. Persuading them to write the check, however~ is another thing altogether. Which is why Apple created the Student Loan- to-Own Program. An ingenious loan program that makes 'buying a Macintosh as easy as using one. Simply pick up an application at Compute1· Professionals. All your parents need to' Area's largest loeally owned full-service eompu.ter cen~l~. Monday tluu Friday 1~ AM.;9 PM Saturday 10 AM-6 PM • Sunday Noon-5 There's no collateraL No need to prove finan· . CDMPUTER ~ . 'PRCFESSIDNALS I An aJPiia.te q{Decision Resources · · .__,.,. ()ial hardship. No application fee. Best of all, the loan payments can be spread ()Veras many as 10 years. Which gives you and your parents plenty of time to decide just who pays for it all. t ••• Intoducing Apple~s Student Loan-to-Own Program at Computer Professio!lals. Come to our store and see a demonstration on the Macintosh Computer: Yon 1 ll like what you ~ee... . . ' .: '. 438-0010 . ' Stayvesant Plaza · · .

CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 Page 22 Softball Marathon M.ay 22 and 23 Any and all teams welcome !! For information on how to enter cal:l 372- 8292 Proceeds to benefit ask for Sonny I 8 Am,eri can Cancer Society Sponsored by the New York Beta Chapter of Phi Delta Theta at Union College ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518) 237-9012 ROI has excellent part-time and full-time positions available working with adults with developmental disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting. Work with a professional team while providing assistance and supervision in the a:-e::t3 of daily living. skills, socialization and recreation. Flexible hours on weekday evenings, overnights and weekends. Eam between $5.50 and $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday bonus incentive (part-time wages). Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus full benefits. START YOUR CAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! ROI offers a shuttle service from two convenient locations. Call for information. Residential Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service Agency located in the Albany area. Residential Opportunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Col1oes, NY 12047 (518) 237-9012 At The College Bookstore College Center, Union College It's never bee11 difficult for students to convince their parents of the need for a Macintosh® compu- ter at school. do is fill it out, .sign. it, and send it. H they qualify. they'll receive a check for you in just a few weeks. Prrsuading th('m to write the check. however, is am1ther thing altogether. Wlrich is why Apple created the Studl'nt Loan- t()-0\'\'n Program. An ingenious loan program that makl's huymg a Macintosh as rasy as using onp-. Simply pirk up an appliration at Computrr Professionals. All your parrots need to Area's largest locally owned full-seni.ce computer center. Momlay thru Friday lO AM-9 PM Saturday I 1• A:'i-6 PM • Sunday Noon-5 Tltere's no collateral. No need to prove finan- COMPUtER PROFESSIONALS An affiliate ofDecision Resources ..__..., __ cial hardship. No application fee. Best of all, the loan payments can he spread over as many as lO years. Which gives you and your parents plenty of time to decide just who pays for it all. li. lntoducing Apple~ s Student Loan-to-Own Program at Computer Professienals. Come to our store and see a demonstration on the Macintosh Computer. You'll like what you see. 438-0010 Stuyvesant Plaza .l ! '

. CONCORDIENSIS May 1'8~ 1989 .. C!Lnncdt~iensis SPORTS· At States Men . . . . ' Show Might ..... - - .. - . . . - ' . -- -' .. . ., ' ... S .. k'' · .zm .tns Scoring Additionally, as a result of . nu~tous fine performances and overall endurance, Chip Silver took second in the decathlon with a total of 5,202 points. this. event was ; conducted the previous weekend, bt.J.t was a part of the meet. te.am of Will Allen, Simkins, Silver, and Hayes was also able · to capture sixth, despite being . in the slower _heat, and having . members who had all , previously competed in the · meet their time of 3:26.9 was • · facil~tated by Simkins' 51.!~5. The Dutchmen will ltave , their last meet· tomorrow at · home in the Union Spring Classic .. Come out and support the team. SPORTS ACCORDIN:G TO GOETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports Editor As this spring term winds down, certain student-athletes whose performance exemplified the excellence which Union Athletics have achieved this year were honored this last weekend during Prize Day, or will have also receive<! recognition at the Sports Banquet. But many competitors will have gone unnoticed. Except for those who saw th.eir peronnances or read about them in this section of Concordiensis {if there were any writers covering their sport), they wi'll have .gone unrecognized. For all those unsung heroes of Union Athletics here is your deserved congratulations for a job well done. By. HANS SCIIWARZ Last weekend, the Union College ·men 1 .s track team competed !lt the New York State Trac:k and Field Cb ampions;h:'ip Meet at Buffalo. Tbe Running Dutchmen were able t.O capture 24 points, considetably more than in past years. The .8-114 points sc.ored by Track: 'and Field Athlete Of The Week Jeffrey Simkins were helpfui in the team's plethora of scoring at the meet Jeffrey was able to take s.econd place in the 400m intermediate hurdles. His tiine ·Of 55.2 was not only a fitting climax to his season because of his high finish, but was also a personal best. Hori~ontaljumper Art Broga leapt to dual placement, as he took. both a six. til place in the triple jump with'13.56, and a fourth. place with: a long jump . of 6.63. This was the best. long jump of his career. The other field event where Union took points was the javelin throw. Tom Lombardoni ~captured sixth with his lengthy throw of Mouthing Off Strong individual performances we:te also turned in by numerous other athletes, including Steven Hayes and Chip Silver. After competing in the 400m prelinrinaries, and. successfully proceedi11g from the preliminaries in the 200m, Hayes had a very noteworthy time of 23.44 in the 200m, despite his block's slipping. 47.20~ . The DutCbmea relay teams both finished Strong, taking sixth place in their respective races. The 4X800m team of Doug Mattocc4 Sacsha Lewis, Hans Schwarz, and Michael Martinez recorded a seasonal best with a time of 8:38.0. ~elpful in this effort were the personal best splits of Martinez, 2:06.2, and Doug Martocci, 2:06.5, The 4X400m ·Women's Track Excels At ECAC's By SHORTCAKE.- After a long, tough season, the lady· tracksters sent six women to the prestigious ECAC meet held at WPI. These women, wha represented . the best runners at Union, were up against the best teams in the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference. and came home with a feeling of pride as they continued their success on the track. In the 400m dash, Rika Poor ran 59.09 seconds in trials and 59.30 seconds in finals to place herself as the fifth fastest · woman in the East. Hot after the 800m run school record, Meg Parsons came that much closer last weekend as she powered her way to a 2: 18.05 .. Alix Goldschmidt threw her way to a 10;54m mark in the shot put and then stabbed an eighth place finish in the Javetirt with a toss: of 34.60m. Lynne Erdmatt,. the remaining Union athlete who competed in individual events,. ran up against the. toughest competition seen thus far. this year in the HOOm run, and fared well as she crossed the line with 5:07.8. The ·first relay event was the 4X800m relliy consisting of Meg, Lynne, -snortcake and Deb Danforth. Despite a mishap which le<l toa Union runner being bumped and the baton being di:opped, the team finished respectably in 10:07.71 with ·two of the team's runners churning out personal records for themselves. In the · 4X400m relay, the team of Meg, Lynne, Rika and Denise McMillan finishing in 4:10~07, their best : time all season, and personal records were set within the relay. Overall, the women had a great day (even tile weather was nice, for once) and ended their season on a good note; This Friday, the Union track team is hosting the Union Spring Classic in which. a few -.of the athletes will be cempeting. To all those who are· done, we wish you well and keep on running. SALE ' . USED .IQE HO.CKEY EQUieMENT FRIDAY, MAY 19th,. MONDAY, MAY 22nd and TUESDAY, ,MAY 23, \1989 2:00 .. 4:00 p.m. • · SQUIPMENT & TRAVEL BAGS,, JERSEYS, GIRDLES, ETC; .. · ACHILLES RINK -LOCKER ROOM #3 (off main lobby) By ANDY BRAVER Sports dynasties are a funny thing. Some sports have them, others don•t. But they are .still strange and difficult to understand. In some cases, it is difficult to comprehend how the team ever got to be so good, and in others cases, one wonders how in the world they are still as good as they are after so long. When I look at the National Hockey League to find a 'dynasty', I really only see one team. Sure, in the past decade, the New York Islanders and the . Edmonton Oilers have each won successive Stanley Cup Championships. But, sa what? Both teams were very good, and at times could dominate a number of games over a week. The Islanders had Bossy, Potvin, Trotier and Smith. Great players, Hall of Fame players. 'The Oilers even llad, arguably, the best player in the history of the game in Wayne Gretzy, not to meation Messier, Kurri, and Fuhr. But the one team that jumps into my mind every time I bring up the subject is the Montreal Canadiens. I kn()w, ·. they have only won one Cup this decade. They are also appearing in the second of the decade even as I type. Bu.t this is also the same .franchise that · has appecn:.ed in 31 Stanley Cup Ch.ampionship series before this year. It is the same franchise that won the Cup in 1946, 1956, 1966, 1976, and ag:ain in 1986. That is a . · dynasty: Same people may say that the league only had six . teams until after the third of these tive Cups. But now there ate· 21 te~s and the streak is still alive. That is the mark of a dynasty. By the way, tlte · Canadiens also have ten, sorry, make that eleven mote · appearances in the Stanley Cllp than the next closest team, the Toronto Maple Leafs, wllo have been the league's doormat for years. Why do they always find the great players? Do they become great after they don that red, white and bl11e uniform? I wish they co11ld share their wealth, or at least their secret. Basketball is a different story than hockey. In the NBA, teams rarely do repeat as leaglle champion. Undoubtedly, the Boston Celtics are the greatest franchise in ·the sport. Until last year, they were the last team to repeat as NBA Champion, but the)' accomplished that feat in tlte late 1960's. But now, the Los Angeles Lakers are only eight victories away from the becoming the last team since, you got it, the Celtics, to repeat as champions three straight years. They are a dynasty. But how? How did they get Magic Johnson in the draft, or James Worthy? When they needed a scorer off the bench a few years ago, they g<Jt Bob McAdoo. He is the sam~ guy who won only thre~ scoring titles in the seventies. They trade an aging, great player like Norm Nixon ami get Byron Scott in return. Gi~e the other teams a chance to witt sometime, will ya! So unfair. So good. All they have do11e since 1980 is win five titl.tls and appear in all but o11e Championship series. Not bad! Forget baseball. No team ltas repeated since the Y ank:ees in 1977-78, but now they stillk., and have made it to the Wcrld Series only once this decade:; Some teams are good every year, others have one or two good seasons in a row. Take the New York Mets, for example. They did nothing for ten years, 1974-1983, except battle the Chicago Cubs for -last place. Then all of a sudden, both teams are good. The Cubs win the division, which they have not come close to doing since, and the Mets come in second. Their manager, Davey Johnson, is the only manager ever to win over 90 games in his first five seasons, and he will make it six this year. But how did they get good in one year? They stink up the place one year and the next they can do no wrong. Why couldn't anybody see it coming? Strange. In the National Football League, the seventies was the decade of the dynasty.The Pittsbutgh Steelers won four Super Bowls, defeating the Dallas Cowboys twice, while the Cowboys also won two of their own. Those were dynasties. ~ow they are in the doldrums. Last year Dallas had the worst record in the league, and Pitts burgh won only five times. Bad times, and bad players. In this decade, the Raiders and Redskins have each won two Super Bowls, and the San Francisco 49ers have won three. Tile NFL does not have a dynasty of sorts. At least, they don't have a one-team dynasty.· !hey have a dynasty of teams. Now why couldn't team executives in all four sports look at this and see what they can do to help keep their teams on top. See what happens to the winners that makes them losers. Maybe, just maybe, they can keep themselves on top for a while.

I I . CONCORDIENSIS May 18, 1989 QLnncnt~itnsis SPORTS· At States Men Show Might ·Simkins Leads Scoring Additionally, as a result of numeFous fine performances and cverall endurance, Chip Silver took second in the decathlon with a total of 5,202 points. This event was conducted the previous weekend, but was a part of the meet. team of WiH Allen, Simkins, Silver, and Hayes was also able to capture sixth, despite being . in the slower heat, and having members who had all previously competed in the meet. Their time of 3:26.9 was facilitated by Simkins' 51.85. The Dutchmen will have their last meet tomorrow at home in the Union Spring · Classic. Come out and support the team. SPORTS ACCORDING TO GO·ETZ By GREG GOETZ Sports EdHor As this spring term winds down, certain student-athletes whose performance exemplified the excellence which Union Athletics have achieved this year were honored this last weekend during Prize Day, or will have also received recognition at the Sports Banquet. But many competitors will have gone unnoticed. Except for those who saw their perormances or read about them in this section of Concordiensis (if there were any writers covering their sport), they will have gone unrecognized. For all those unsung heroes of Union Athletics here is your deserved congratulations for a job well done. By HANS SCHWARZ Last weekend, the Union College men's track team competed ;tt the New York State Track and Field Championship Meet at Buffalo. The Running Dutchmen were able to capture 24 points, considerably more than in past years. The 8-1/4 points scored by Track and Field Athlete Of The Week Jeffrey Simkins were helpful in the team's plethora of scoring at the meet. Jeffrey was able to take second place in the 400rn intermediate hurdles. His time of 55.2 was not only a fitting climax to his season because of his high finish, but was also a personal best. Horizontal jumper Art Broga leapt to dual placement, as he took both a sixth place in the triple jump with ·13.56, and a fouFth place with a long jump of 6.63. This was the best long jump of his career. The other field event where Union took points was the javelin throw. Tom Lombardoni captured sixth with his lengthy throw of 47.20. Mouthing Off Strong individual performances were also turned in by numerous other athletes, including Steven Hayes and Chip Silver. After competing in the 400m preliminaries, and successfully proceeding from the preliminaries in the 200m, Hayes had a very noteworthy time of 23.44 in the 200m, despite his block's slipping. The Dutchmen relay teams both finished strong, taking sixth place in their respective races. The 4X800m team of Doug Martocci, Sacsha Lewis, Hans Schwarz, and Michael Martinez recorded a seasonal best with a time of 8:38.0. Helpful in this effort were the personal best splits of Martinez, 2:06.2, and Doug Martocci, 2:06.5. The 4X400m Women's Track Excels At ECAC's By SHORTCAKE After a long, tough season, the lady tracksters sent six women to the prestigious ECAC meet held at WPI. These women, who represented the best runners at Union, were up against the best teams in the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference, and came home with a feeling of pride as they continued their success on the track. In the 400m dash, Rik:a Poor ran 59.09 seconds in trials and 59.30 seconcls in finals to place herself as the fifth fastest woman in the East. Hot after the 800m run school record, Meg Parson~ carne that much closer last weekend as she powered her way to a 2:18.05 .. Alix Goldschmidt threw her way to a 10.54m mark in the shot put and then stabbed an eighth place finish in the javelin with a toss of 34.60m. Lynne Erdman, the remaining Union athlete who competed in individual events, ran up against the. toughest competition seen thus far this year in the 1500m run, and fared well as she crossed the line with 5:07.8. The first relay event was the 4X800m relay consisting of Meg, Lynne, Shortcake and Deb Danforth. Despite a mishap which led to a Union runner being bumped and the baton being dropped, the team finislled respectably in 1 0:0'7. 71 with two of the team's runners churning out personal records . _for themselves. In the 4X400m relay, the team of Meg, Lynne, Rika and Denise McMillan finishing in 4:10.07, their best time all season, and personal records were set within the relay. Overall, the women had a great day (even the weather was nice, for once) and ended their season on a good note. This Friday, the Union track team is hosting the Union Spring Classic in which a few of the athletes will be competing. To all those who are done, we wish you well and keep on running. SALE USED ICE HOCKEY EQUIPMENT FRIDAY, MAY 19th, MONDAY, MAY 22nd and TUESDAY, MAV 23, 1989 2:00 • 4:00 p.m. EQUIPMENT & lRAVEL BAGS. JERSEYS, GIRDLES, ETC •.. ACHILLES RINK- LOCKER ROOM #3 (off main lobby) By ANDY ERA VER Sports dynasties are a funny thing. Some sports have them, others don't. But they are still strange and difficult to understand. In some cases, it is difficult to comprehend how the team ever got to be so good, and in others cases, one wonders how in the world they are still as good as they are after so long. When I look at the National Hockey League to find a 'dynasty', I really only see one team. Sure, in the past decade, the New York Islanders and the Edmonton Oilers have each won successive Stanley Cup Championships. But, so what? Both teams were very good, and at times could dominate a number of games over a week. The Islanders had Bossy, Potvin, Trotier and Smith. Great players, Hall of Fame players. The Oilers even had, arguably, the best player in the history of the game in Wayne Gretzy, not to mention Messier, Kurri, and Fuhr. But the one team that jumps into my mind every time I bring up the subject is the Montreal Canadiens. I know, they have only won one Cup this decade. They are also appearing in the second of the decade even as I type. But this is also the same franchise that has appeared in 31 Stanley Cup Championship series before this year. It is the same franchise that won the Cup in 1946, 1956, 1966, 1976, and again in 1986. That is a dynasty. Some people may say that the league only had six teams until after the third of these five Cups. But now there are 21 teams and the streak is still alive. That is the mark of a dynasty. By the way, the Canadiens also have ten, sorry, make that eleven more appearances in the Stanley Cup than the next closest team, the Toronto Maple Leafs, who have been the league's doormat for years. Why do they always find the great players? Do they become great after they don that red, white and blue uniform? I wish they could share their wealth, or at least their secret. Basketball is a different story than hockey. In the NBA, teams rarely do repeat as league champion. Undoubtedly, the Boston Celtics are the greatest franchise in the sport. Until last year, they were the last team to repeat as NBA Champion, but they accomplished that feat in the late 1960's. But now, the Los Angeles Lakers are only eight victories away from the becoming the last team since, you got it, the Celtics, to repeat as champions three straight years. They are a dynasty. But how? How did they get Magic Johnson in the draft, or James Worthy? When they needed a scorer off the bench a few years ago, they got Bob McAdoo. He is the same guy who won only three scoring titles in the seventies. They trade an aging, great player like Norm Nixon and get Byron Scott in return. Give the other teams a chance to win sometime, will ya! So unfair. So good. All they have done since 1980 is win five titles and appear in all but one Championship series. Not bad! Forget baseball. No team has repeated since the Yankees in 1977-78, but now they stink, and have made it to the World Series only once this decade. 0 0 Some teams are good every year, others have one or two good seasons in a row. Take the New York Mets, for example. They did nothing for ten years, 197 4-1983, except battle the Chicago Cubs for last place. Then all of a sudden, both teams are good. The Cubs win the division, which they have not come close tc doing since, and the Mets come in second. Their manager, Davey Johnson, is the only manager ever to win over 90 games in his first five seasons, aJJd he will make it six this year. But how did they get good in one year? They stink up the place one year and the next they can do no wrong. Why couldn't anybody see it coming? Strange. In the National F<Jotball League, the seventies was the decade of the dynasty.The Pittsbutgh Steelers won four Super Bowls, defeatin~ the Dallas Cowboys twice, while the Cowboys also won two of their own. Those were dynasties. Now they are in the doldrums. Last year Dallas had the worst record in the league, and Pittsburgh won only five times. Bad times, and bad players. In this decade, the Raiders and Redskins have each won two Super Bowls, and the San Francisco 49ers have won three. The NFL does not have a dynasty of sorts. At least, they don't have a one-team dynasty. They have a dynasty of teams. Now why couldn't team executives in all four sports look at this and see what they can do to help keep their teams on top. See what happens to the winners that makes them losers. Maybe, just maybe, they can keep themselves on top for a while.

:_, ,. CONGRATULATIONS- 1988-89 TEAM MVP's: FOOTBA·Ll MEN'S SOCCER . WOMEN'S SOCCER VOLLEYBALL WOMEN'S SWIMMING MEN'S INDOOR TRACK . '' -- MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY WOMEN'S TENNIS Thomas E. McMahon .Denning Fl. McTague Kimberley L. Seed Ann M. Hoban Michael F. Martinez Sandra M. Anselment Lakshmi Vadlamudi Monica M. Zifcak WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK BASEBAL.L f\IIEN'S LACROSSE WOMEN'S LACROSSE MEN'S . fE,NNlS FIELD :HOCKEY ICE HOCKEY ·G·OLF . . MEN'S BASKET·BA:LL WOM'EN''S BASKETBALL MEN'S SWIMMING Guy T. Logan Douglas E. Gregory Gina M. Prokosch Thomas c;:. ·Kim WOMEN'S O'UT.DOOR TRACK MEEN!$ OUTDOOR TRACK SOFTBALL flllay 18, 1989 ' - . - - .. . ' - . . Griffin, Manley, Amarante, Gallo, Lynch, Kaveney, Kinghorn, Russ, Gibbs and Romer Awarded for Outstanding Performances . By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Seniors Horace Griffin, Scott, Manley, Tony Amarante, Julie Gallo and Courtney Lynch, juniors Kathy Kavaney and Ron Kinghorn and freshman. Brett Russ were honored at the prize day ceremonies last Saturday. Senior Scott Gibbs and Freshman Robin Romer were also honored with prizes at Wednesday's Block U Sports Banquet. Horace Griffin, a mechanical engineering major, took home the Ronald F. Plumb Memorial Prize which is awarded to the senior varsity football player who best exemplifies the qualities of :Mr. Plumb, class of 1980. Horace led the Dutchman gridders in rushing last fall, despite a variety of injuries. He carried the ball 142 times for 555 yards and a pair of touchdowns. • An Economics major and four year letter winner for the Skating Dutchmen, Scott Manley won the William B. Jaffe Medal. The award is presented to the senior male athlete voted by the athletic department to be the outstanding athlete of the year, taking into account the character and motivation of the individual in addition to athletic excellence. Scott was co-captain of this season's 19-8-2 squad, played in 105 games in his career, and scored 47 points on 15 goals 1 and 32 assists during that time. Tony Amarante,· a political science major, was awarded the Fred W. Bruhn Award, for the 1 mem her of the varsity baseball · team who has made the greatest contribution in terms of inspirational leadership, sportsmanship, team and· college loyalty, and service as a player. A three-year letter winner, Tony has led the Dutchmen in RBI's and been in the top three in hitting in each of those three seasons. A math major, Julie Gallo won the Women's . Commission Senior Athletic Prize, which is awarded to the senior female student-athlete who lias done the most to promote sports for women at Union College. Julie won a four-year starter in both soccer and basketball as well as three- year starter in softball A fullbac:k in soccer, point gLJard in basketball and catcher/centerfielder in softball, Julie was elected captain at least <>nee in all three sports while at Union. An English/Political SCience major, Courtney Lynch enjoyed an outstanding career in botil field hockey and lacrosse and was awarded the Robert B. Ridings Award Saturctay. This award is presented to a senior female athlete for her attitude, ability, participation, and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Courtney's achievements indeed have been many. She becarne the first woman at Union ever to be named an All- American when her field hockey accomplishments landed her spots on the f1rst team Mid-Atlantic Field and second team National squads last fall. She led the field hockey team in scoring this year and finished her career with 32 points on 22 goals, 10 assists. In lacrosse, Courtney finished as the team's all-time leading scorer with 167 points on 139 ,goals and 28 assists. Kathy Kavaney, a former stando11t at Guilderland High School in Albany and a math major, took home the Easlern Collegiate Athletic Conference Medal ()f Merit. This medal is presented to the junior female athlete who has combined excellence in athletics with excenence in the classroom or in service to the college. Kathy is a th:re:e-yeat letter winner and led the women's swim team to a fourtll place finish in the New York State Meet. She won tile state butterfly champicmship with a 1:00~11 and set a state record in the txials with a 59 .88. A Managerial Economics Major, R<>n Kinghorn received the Winiam A. Pike Memorial Trophy awarded to a juniQr male athlete for his attitude, ability, participation, and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Ron tended goal and led the Skating Dutchmen into the NCAA Division III tournament last winter. Posting a 19-7-2 record, he set Union.records for wins in a season, minutes played in a season and consecutive games played. His goals against average (2.69) and save percentage (90.8) were also outstanding. A standout at Worcester Academy, Brett Russ stepped in to start at quarterback in the last six football games for the Dutchmen last fall and was awarded the Freshmen Male Athlete of the Year Award. Union went 4-2 with Brett at the helm as he completed 87 of 173 passes (50.2%) for 979 yards, four touchdowns and eight interceptions. An Electrical Engineering major and three-year letter winner for the men's basketball team, Scott Gibbs was awarded the Paul Rieschick Award Wednesday at the annual Block U Awards Banquet This award is presented to the basketball player who, in the opinion of· the coaching staff regardless of playing time and individu.al statistics, exemplified the teant concept througlt desire, attitude and loyalty to the program. Scott appeared in 74 garn~s dw:ing his career at Union and was a captain of this year's 14- 11 tf;am, which qualified for the ECAC postseason tournament. Finaly, freshma,n Robin Romer was awarded the Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercamp Memorial.. Award at the Block U Banquet. This award goes to the female stuClent-athlete who has shown desire, dedication, sportsmanship and inspirational leadership on the field of competition as well as in her daily life. A two Sport standout, Robin led the Lady Dutchmen Hoopsters in both points (320 for a 15.2 average) and rebounds (184 for an 8.8 average) and started both at catcher and in the outfield for $e softball team. Concordiensis joins the athletic department in congratulating all ten of .these fme athletes and thanking them for their excellent representation of Union College. SCOREBOARD MEN'S BASEBAI,L (7·16) UNION . 10 WILLIAM'S 14 WOMEN'S SOFTBAI.L (9·9) STATE TOURNAMENT (finished 5th) UNION 7 UNION 6 UNION 5 STONYBROOK 9 (8 innings) Mt. St. Vincent 0 HUNTER 1 MEN'S TENNIS (5·7) UNION 1 . WILLIAMS 8 WQMEN'S 1 1 ACRQSSE (4·8) UNION 8 WILLIAMS 13 Kathleen G. Kaveney St~ven T. Hayes Herrickf.l· D.. Poor Antho.ny D.~ Amarante David J. DeBerardlnis Courtney Lyn~h Chad s. Levin Richard H. Roberts · AHx J. ·Goldschrnidt ·George E.. Silver J.ulie A. Gallo Errata Last week's article entitled \DeBardinis Names .MVP of Area All Star Lax Team\ contained three ignominious. blunders. Firstly, the correct spelling of the MVP referred to in the title is DeBeratdinis, as . D . \D B II s . . dl . m ave, ·. e . o. . . econ y, 1t should have read \De.Berardinis Named .•. \ not \DeBerardinis Names .... \ Lastly, and with our deepest regrets, it . was not freshman goaltender Paul Garnett who was named ·to the team along with DeBerardinis, Jolin Keller and Blake Henderson, but rather, Paul's bro.ther Steve Garnett. Steve is a junior defenseman from Concord, Mass. and a three-letter winner with the DutChmen Lax teruil. Once again, the editors of C on cor d ie n s is Sports apologize for this error. ·Announcing: THE UNION ·sPRING CLASSIC WATCH THE TRACK· TEAM COMPETE !It The last home track meet will be held ·tomorrow. Come by · after Greek Week and . Fitz Hugh Ludlow . festivities. It will begin · · in the afternoon and continue in the early evening. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS!!!

CONGRATULATIONS 1988-89 TEAM MVP's: FOOTBALL MEN'S SOCCER WOMEN'S SOCCER VOLLEYBALL MEN'S CROSS COUNTR'V WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY WOMEN'S TENNIS Thomas E. McMahon Denning R. McTague Kimberley l. Seed Ann M. Hoban Michael F. Martinez Sandra M. Anselment Lakshmi Vadlamudi Monica M. Zifcak WOMEN'S SWIMMING ME:N\S INDOOR TRACK WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK BASEBAll ME;N\S LACROSSE WOMEN'S LACROSS,E ME·WS TENNI'S FIELD HOCKEY ICE HOCKEY G·OLF MEN'S BASKETBALL WOMEN'S BASKETBJ\LL MEN'S SWIMMING Guy T. Logan Douglas E. Gregory Gi'na M. Prokosch Thomas C. Kim WOMEN'S OUTDOOR TRACK MEN'S OUTDOOR TRACK SQ:fTBALl May 18, 1989 TEN ATHLETES HONORED Griffin, Manley1 Amarante, Gallo, Lynch, Kaveney, Kinghorn, Russ, Gibbs and R·omer Awarded for Outstanding Performances By SCOTT ADAMS Sports Editor Seniors Horace Griffin, Scott, Manley, Tony Amarante, Julie Gallo and Courtney Lynch, juniors Kathy Kavaney and Ron Kinghorn and freshman Brett Russ were honored at the prize day ceremonies last Saturday. Senior Scou Gibbs and Freshman Robin Romer were also honored with prizes at Wednesday's Bh:lCk U Sports Banquet Horace Griffin, a mechanical engineering major, took home the Ronald F. Plumb Memorial Prize which is awarded to tile senior varsity football player who best exemplifies the qualities of Mr. Plumb, class of 1980. Horace led the Dutchman gridders in rushing last fall, despite a variety of injuries. He carried the ball 142 times for 555 yards and a pair of touchdowns. ~ An Economics major and four year lette;r winner for the Skating Dutchmen, Scott Manley won the William B. Jaffe Medal. The award is presented to the senior male athlete voted by the athletic department to be the outstanding athlete of the year, taking into account the character and motivation of the individual in addition to athletic excellence. Scott was co-captain of this season's 19-8-2 squad, played in 105 games in his career, and scored 4 7 paints on 15 goals · and 32 assists during that time. Tony Amarante, a political science major, was awarded the Fred W. Bruhn A ward, for the member of the varsity baseball team who has made the greatest contribution in terms of inspirational leadership, sportsmanship, team and college loyalty, and service as a player. A three-year letter winner, Tony has led the Dutchmen in RBI's and been in the top three i11 hitting in each of those three seasons. A math major, Julie Gallo won the Women's CC>mmission Senior Athletic Prize, which is awarded to the senior female student-athlete wl1o has done the most to J)romote sports for women at Union College. Julie won a four-year starter in both soccer and basketball as well as three- year starter in softball. A fllllback in soccer, point guard in basketball and catcher/centerfielder in softball. Julie was elected captain at least once in all three sports wllile at Union. An English/Political Science major, Courtney Lynch enjoyed an outstanding career in both field hockey and lacrosse and was awarded the R.()bert B. Ridings Award Saturday. This award is presented to a senior female athlete for her attitude, ability, participation, and achievement in intercollegiate sports. Courtney's achievements indeed have been many. She became the first woman at Union ever to be named an All- American when her field hockey accomplishments landed her spots on the first team Mid-Atlantic Field and second team National squads last fall. She led the field hockey team in scoring this year and finished her career witl1 32 points on 22 goals, 10 assists. In lacrosse, Courtney fi11ished as the team's a11-time leading scorer with 167 points on 139 goals and 28 assists. Kathy Kavaney, a former standout at Guilderland High School in Albany and a math major, took home the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference Medal of Merit. This medal is :Presented to the junior female athlete who has combined excellence in athletics with excellence in the classroom or in service to the college. Kathy is a three- year letter winner and led the women's swim team to a fourth :Place finish in the New York State Meet. She won the state butterfly championship with a 1:00.11 and set a state record in the trials with a 59.&8. A Managerial Economics Major, Ron Kinghorn received the William A. Pike Memorial Trophy awarded to a junior male athlete for his attitude, ability, participation, a11d achievement in intercollegiate sports. Ron tended goal and led the Skating Dutchmen into the NCAA Division III tournament last winter. Posting a 19-7-2 record, he set Union records for wins in a season, minutes played in a season a11d consecutive games played. His goals against average (2.69) and save percentage (90.8) were also outstanding. A standout at Worcester Academy, Brett Russ stepped in to start at quarterback in the last six football games for the Dutchmen last fall and was awarded the Freshmen Male Athlete of the Year A ward. Union went 4-2 with Brett at the helm as he completed 87 of 173 passes (50.2%) for 979 yards, four touchdowns and eight interceptions. An Electrical Engineering major and three-year letter winner for the men's basketball team, Scott Gibbs was awarded the Paul Rieschick A ward Wednesday at the annual Block U A wards Banquet. This award is presented to the basketball player who, in the opinion of the coaching staff regardless of playing time and individual statistics, exemplified the team concept through desire,attitude and loyalty to the program. Scott appeared in 74 games during his career at Union and was a captain of this year's 14- 11 team, which qualified for the ECAC postseason tournament. Finaly. freshman Robin Romer was awarded the Terri Lynch-Jackie Havercamp MemorialAward at the Block U Banquet. This award goes to the female student-athlete who has shown desire, dedication, sportsmanship and inspirational leadership on the field of comJJetition as well as in her daily life. A two sport standout, Robin led the Lady Dutchmen Hoopsters in both points (320 for a 15.2 average) and rebounds (184 for an 8.8 average) and started both at catcher and in the outfield for the softball team. Concordiensis joins the athletic department in congratulating all ten of these fme athletes and thanking them for their excellent representation of Union College. SCOREBOARD MEN'S BASEBAI,L (7-16) UNION 10 WILLIAMS 14 WOMEN'S SOFTBALL (9-9) STATE TOURNAMENT (finished 5th) UNION 7 UNION 6 UNION 5 STONYBROOK 9 (8 innings) Mt. St. Vincent 0 HUNTER 1 MEN'S TENNIS (5-7) UNION 1 WILLIAMS 8 WOMEN'S LACROSSE (4-8) UNION 8 WILLIAMS 13 Kathleen G. Kave.ney Steven T. Hayes Herricka D. Poor Anthony D. Amarante David J. DeBerardinis Courtney lynch Chad S. levin Richard H. Roberts Alix J. Gtl'ldschmidt George E. Silver Julie A. Gallo Errata Last week's article entitled \DeBardinis Names MVP of Area All Star Lax Team\ contained three ignominious blunders. Firstly, the correct spelling of the MVP referred to in the title is DeBerardinis, as in Dave, \DeBo.\ Secondly, it should have read \DeBerardinis Named ... \ not \DeBerardinis Names .... \ Lastly, and with our deepest regrets, it was not freshman goaltender Paul Garnett who was named to the team along with DeBerardinis, John Keller and Blake Henderson, but rather, Paul's brother Steve Garnett. Steve is a junior defensernan from Concord, Mass. and a three-letter winner with the Dutchmen Lax team. Once again, the editors of Concordiensis Sports apologize for this error. Announcing: THE UNION SPRING CLASSIC WATCH THE TRACK TEAM COMPETE!!! The last home track meet will be held tomorrow. Come by after Greek Week and Fi1z Hugh Ludlow festivities. It will begin in the afternoon and continue in the early · evening. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS!!!

llege 1877 Vol. CXVlll,: No. 24 Yor.k May 25, 1989 Two Proposals By Freshman Year Committee To Be Iinplemented Next Fall Witbin the past week, the Freshman Year Committee has presented two proposals to two different committees and both of tbem have been· approved. Beginning next fall, .major: changes will take place in both Hickock Rouse and the manner _in .which incoming freS>hman : limited to only forty-five . freshmen as that is the ma:ximum allowed in Hickock. Within the program, the students Will be enrolled in one common class per -term and will often .see their ·classes · taught ht Hickock as well as · campus classrooms; ~Y:- the freshman das s can participate. The second plan to be implemented is a ne:w freshman advising pr<Jgram. Acconling to the plan, \Beginning ne:xt year, each freshman will be assigned to a freshman advisor s:elected from a cadre of faculty speciall:y trained to a<lvise freshmen.\ The plan gained the go-.ahead for implementation after approval by the Freshman Year Committee as well as the Academic Affairs Council. In the program, each faculty advisor will have fifteen freshmen in his group. At the · end of the freshmen year~ each student will select a new advisq>r within the deprutment ofhis major. . Hickok House; The sight of a new living-learning plan for freshmen. 'A.fter receiving intense training, the advisors will meet with their freshmen several times each year and offer advice on the new Gen-Edprogram, as well as answer any ether questions tllat the freshmen may have. ·students will be advised. The first of these two is a plan that has been approved by the Student Affairs Council. The plan initiates a program available to all incoming freshmen to live as a group in Hickock House. The program is called \living-learning\ and. will stress that fun and seriousness can be had in both the donns and in the classroom and are interchangeable with each. The plan is, however, Although the program created soine minor problems for Tesidence life (it was implemented one week before the housing lottery began), . Professor Byron Nichols of the political science department . sees the plan as an excellent concept for the new freshmen. It is intended to unite members of the freshman class and help · them thrQugh the General Education requirements. One drawback, however, is the fact that only a small proportion of Both of these programs have been brought forward after an entire year's worth of w<>rk by the Freshman Year Committee. Comprised of several students and faculty members fro!Jl the College, the Committee has devised these plans after c!ll'eful thought in hopes of enhancing the interests of the new freshmen and helping to make their start at Union a positive and more comfortable one. Additiona.l Changes To Fre'shman Year Proposed By ELISE FOODY News Editor There are currently two new proposals pending appropriate approval to affect the Class of 1993. The proposals are scheduled to be voted on by the end of this school year. The first of these proposals cO'ncetns a change in the present Fraternity/Sorority Rush Policy. The Committee on the Freshman Year ha$ proposed a change in the initiation processes of all Greek organizations. Their first recommendation is that freshmen not be pemiitted ro participate \in any formal activities of a fraternity or sorority during fall term of . the freshman year.\ The IFC and the PHC as well as the SAC and the Dean of Students' Office would monitor observance of the policy. . During the fall term freshmen · would be advised and infonned of rush functions scheduled for winter term. During winter term freshmen would \be permitted to join in ! any of the common activhies, both fonnal and informal, of all fraternities and .sororities.\ This time period would also serve as a time for freshmen to refl.ect about participatio11 (or non-parti':'ipation) in a Greek organization. Students wculd then (as early as the seventh week in the term) receive bids from respective .fraternities or sororities. Pledge activities. wo11ld then be scheduled throughout spring term. Finally. by the end of spring term, each organization would know \who their members are and make appropriate housing plans: for Continued on page 3 Campus Attack Sparks New Fears Involving Student .Safety By JAY FREELAND News Editor This past weekend, an attack was made on one Union student and a friend while walking hick from a party. The attack occurred on Fri:day, May 19, and has raised safety concerns among many Union students who are aware of the incident. The twist to last weekend's incident is that both victims were males. One Union student and a friend from home were · walking back from a party. They were confronted py three men from off-campus as they were passing. The Union student, who has asked to remain anonymous, stated that they did not provoke the attack, but were simply received. Acting as a non- student, he approached the men and asked ·them about the incident. The two men described the events with the same detail asthe victim. The Union student then · informed the victim and got security. Up<Jn reaching the ·house, however, security ref used to enter, stating that the men inside had nOL acted in a manner provoking the necessity of the security : officers. The group called the Schenectady Police Department, informed them of the situation an:d waited at the fraternity house. Two phone cails and forty-five minutes later, Schenectady Police had still failed to arrive at the 1 scene. This past Monday, the · victim talked with the Deans of the College. He stated that they .vere understanding and willing to find out why security had not entered and why the Police Department did not come. No permanent damage occurred to . punclled and kicked by the three men. The friend of the Union student went to Ellis llospital with a: broken nose and received four stitches. The Union student remained on-campus and reported the incident to security despite a broken nose that be himself had suffered. At a fraternity party the following evening, a Union student who is friends with th~ victim saw two of the three men fitting a description he had . either of the victims; however, the Union student remains baffled as to why security did 11ot make an attempt to apprehend the men when they had the chance. Geltime Schedule Approved The most recent Geltime scheciule which has been debated nearly all year long has finally been approved by all appropriate channels. After being passed by the AAC, and the Administration, the proposed schedule was approved by all faculty division members by a vote of 5-1. The schedule will go into effect beginning winter term 1990. There rem~ins one final decision to be made by the Administration wnceming the · academic c~lendar. This decision should be reached by the end of the current school year. Photo of the Week: That's the hottest golden ~etriever I've seen in the last 4 weeks!

Hege 1877 Vol. CXVII1, No. 24 Schenectady, New York May 25, 1989 Two Proposals By Freshman Year Committee To Be Implemented Next Fall Within the past week, the Freshman Year Committee has presented two proposals to two different committees and both of them have been approved. Beginning next fall, major changes will take place in both Hic::kock House and the manner . in which incoming freshman limited to only forty-five freshmen as that is the maxir:nurn allowed in Hickock. Within the program, the students will be enrolled in one corrum()ll! class per term and will !Often see their classes taught in Hickock as well as ·campus classrooms. f.Jt,,J:. ' ' _·,:~ ~~;; '•;¥!- ·:::':;~ 'I! <_. (i;}' >-.-~; . z_~: :{~•- , ·;..,·: the freshman class can participate. The second plan to be implemented is a new freshman advising program. According to tbe plan, \Beginning next year, each freshman will be assigned to a freshman advisor selected from a cadre of faculty specially trained to advise freshmen.\ The plan gained the go-ahead for implementation after approval by the Freshman Y car Committee as well as the Academic Affairs Council. In the program, each faculty advisor will have fifteen freshmen in his group. At the end of the freshmen year, each student will select a new advisor within the department of his major. Hickok House: The sight of a new living-learning plan for 1reshmen. After receiving intense training, the advisors will meet with their freshmen several times each year and offer advice on the new Gen-Ed program, as well as answer any other questions that the freshmen may have. students will be advised. The first of these two is a plan that has been approved by the Student Affairs Council. The plan initiates a program available to all incoming freshmen to live as a group in Hickock House. The program is called \living-learning\ and will stress that fun and seriousness can be had in both the dorms and in the classroom and are interchangeable with each. The plan is, however, Birthpllys··,. -page S Camp Umon Schedule ·page 9 1988-89 Varsity Letter Winners :~page .·l-8 .-... -.·· .. - ·~. Altllough the program create.d some minor problems for residence life (it was implemented one week before the hl()using lottery began), Pr{)fes.sor Byron Nichols of the politicaJ science department sees tile plan as: an excellent concept for the new freshmen. It is in tended to unite members of the freshman class and help · them through the General . Educati{Jn requirements. One drawback, however, is the fact that onl:y a small proportion of · Both of these programs have been brought forward after an entire year's worth of work by the Freshman Year Committee. Comprised of several students and faculty members from the College, the Committee has devised these plans after careful thought in hopes of enhancing the interests of the new freshmen and helping to make their start at Union a positive and more comfortable one. Additional Changes To Freshman Year Proposed By ELISE FOODY News Editor There are currently two new propos:aJs: pendin.g appropriate approval to affect the Class of 1993. The prop()sals are schedu ledl to be voted on by tbe end of this school year. The first of these proposals concerns a change in the present Fraternity /Sorority Rush Policy. The Committee on the Freshman Year has proposed a change in the initiatio-n processes of al1 Greek organizations. Their first recommendation is that freshmen not be permitted to participate \in any formal ac£ivities of a fraternity or sorOtrity during fall term of the fre~hm.an year.'* The IFC and the PHC as well as the SAC ancl the Dean of Students' Office would monitor observ .ance of the policy. During the fall term freshmen would be advised and informed of rush functions scheduled for winter term. During winter tenn freshmen would \be permitted to join in any of the common activities, both formal and informal, of all fraternities and sororities.\ This time period would also serve as a time for freshmen to reflect about participation (or non-par(inipation) in a Greek organization. Students would then (as early as the seventh week in the term) receive bids from respective fraternities or sororities. Pledge activities would then be scheduled throughout spring term. Finally, by the end of spring term, each organization would know \who their members are and make appropriate housing plans for Continued on page 3 Campus Attack Sparks New Fears Involving Student ·Safety By JAY FREELAND News Editor 'This past weekend, an attack was made on one Union s tud.ent and a friend whi Ic walking back from a party. The attack occurred on Friday, May 19, and has raised safety concerns among m~my Union s.tudcnts who arc aware of the incident. l'hc twist to last weekend's i11cidcnt is that both victims were males. One Union student and a friend from home were walking hack from a party. Tiley were confronted by three men from off-campus as they were passing. The Union student, who has asked to remain anonymous, stated that they did not provoke the attack, but were simply punched and kicked by the three men. The friend of the Union student went to Ellis Hospital with a broken nose and received four stitches. The Union student remained on-campus and reported the incident to security despite a broken nose 1hat he himself had suffered. At a fraternity party the following evening, a Union student who is friends with the v.ic tim saw two of the three men fitting a description he had received. Acting as a non- student, he approached the men and asked them 3[bout the incident. The two men described the events with the same detail as the victim. The Union stud em then informed the vic:ti m; and got . sccurit):. l'pon re.aLhing the house, however. s~.'curity rcfu~crJ tLJ cnt~.·r, slating thatth~.· men ins ide had 11 oL dC ted in a m a n n ..:r p r o v o k 1 01 g t h c necessity of the security officers. The group ciJllcd the Schenectady Police Department, informed them of the situation and waited at the fraternity house. Two phone calls and fony-five minutes later, Schenectady Pclice had still failed to arri v<e at the scene. This past Monclay, the victim talked with the Deans of the C<lllege. He stated that they .vere understanding aild willing to find out why security had not entered and why Lhe Police Department did not c-ome. No permanent damage occurred to either of the victims; l10wevcr, the Union student remains baffled as to why security did 110t make an attempt to apprelle11d the men w llCn they had the chance. Geltime Schedule Approved The most recent Geltime schedule which has been debated nearly al1 year long has finally been approved by all appropriate channels. After bei11g passed by the AAC, and tl1e Administration, the proposed schedule was 2pproved by all faculty division members by a vote of 5-l. The '/ ·~ 1'.\ f ' ' schedule will go in to effect begi11ning winter term 1990. There remains one final · dec is ion to be made by the Administration conccming the acadern ic calendar. This decision should be reached by the end of the current school year. Aij,l[!l! £\ill'llt,,;'~\' ' . .!~~'\\ill ~ ' --~'\'*\\\.,;;-.-~· Photo of the WeE!k: That's the hottest golden retriever I've s.een in the last 4 weeks!

. Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS M4Y 25, 1989 . ,. . QI.oncnroiensili N\EW·S ANALYSIS· By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. In recent weeks, relations between West Germany and her NATO allies have become particularly tense. The root of this tightness is partially lodged into a policy of rampant appeasement by the German government towards the East and its people. Considering the consequences, both Ge.rmany and her allies should reevaluate West Germany: A Hot Potato? their grievances. The Germans, for their part, have not been pulling their weight in the agreement. Due to their location, NATO officials have been historically lenie.nt on their abuses. Since Hans-Dietrich . . . Genscher took over as Foreign Minister, West Germany has attempted to abandon support for El Salvador,. while continually avoiding action in the fight against cortununism in Africa and ·elsewhere. AH this while taking full advantage of NATO support in Europe. To tl!ese indiscrepancies, NATO ltas turned the cheek. However, West Gennany has now leaned towards the Soviet Union ()Jl ,key :matters in the arms reductions talks. Gennany has usee :as an excuse a desire for detente on both sides of the Wall. This is all fine ap.d good, but Ge1many fails to see the bear in sheep's clothing. The Soviets have continually nicked away at the NAto allies while keeping a smile on the public's face. Examples of this are evident most recently in their .cutting of ·Britain's Moscow embassy staff in half., while colll,promising on weaJ>ons which they have already ••in thot~ght\ have scrapped-- in e:x.clunge for a West prolll.ise on llot to update their own. Tn botll of these incidents, the Gerrn~s ·have been supportive of tlte East, thereby crippling tl!estance of the entire West. Evidence th;i.t the Germans ha-ve been mote than holding ha:nds wit:h. t:Ji~ Libyans has on.ly made matters worse, The suspected terrorists ·of Pan Am Fli!llt 103 have been link:~ to~ West German intellige;nce, ac<:ordin.g to The New Yrork. Ti,oo e.s. Such p;romisc:u.ity calls for a rew!)rking of pdlicy to'W;trds the D~utchers.. . · On the other· side of th.~ :plle11ig, West Genn.any's ·allies hav-e to ·be careful in their corralling of this ally. German popular opinion is wholeheartedly against a hard- line West approach, and NAT() must be wary. Elections are around the comet~ and the \ cooperative K<)hl government's security is in queston. NATO has in reality already lost France {rememll~r 'Not in our airspace:\) and cannot afford to lose such a viable member as West Germany; Germany m11st, -though, change . their p()licy on who they. ·negotiate with. If .· G.erinany has a problem ·internally, they sbould work with their allies to solve it, not undercut tbem atld appease the opposition:·· Tllis ·implies 'weakness, and as the mqst · important buff.~ against . the . Warsaw Pact, co.11ld speH disaster not only, for NATO~ but for: the Gennans. Th~ lias~ would like. to see a unified Germany, too. . . Education And It's Ties To Minimum Wage By LANE ~IRKLAND President, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations President Bush now has a golden opportunity- to fulfill his campaign pledge to be the \education president,\ and do so without breaking his other promise to hold the line on taxes. He can accomplish this feat by signing into law the compromise minimum wage increase recently adopted by Congress. In addition to easing the plight of America's working poor, who haven't had a raise since 1981, a minimum wage increase from $3.35 to $4.55 an hour would go a long way toward helping millions of teenagers and young adults pay their way through college. · The cutbacks in student financial aid programs during the Reagan years have enhanced the significance of student employment to the point where work is now one of America's foremost tuition-assistance programs. Consequently, the· minimum wage legislaton is one of the most important education hills that will come before the President in this or any year, Oddly enough, the fact that many of those whb earn the. minimum wage are teenagers is one of the primary arguments used by the opponents ·Of the increase. These young workers, they say, couldn't possibly have any need for the extra income. · Anyone familiar with the cost of a college educaton these days knows that isn't true. Over the past decade, tuition, fees, and room and board expenses at private colleges and universities have nearly doubled. Similar costs for higher education at public fom- SPAA Reflects On Past School Year And .L,ooks To The Future By ALAN EISENBERG Students for Political Awareness and Action is a group concerned with appealing to the diversity of students on. this campus. We try to raise and promote awareness in the Union community of many issues which we feel affect us as students. We do this in a non-biased, non-partisan manner, allowing us. to better understand the issues. As we approach the end of the school year, S.P.A.A. would like to reflect on its accomplishments for this year. During the Fall, S.P.A.A., along with other campus organizations and academic departments brought. American Pictures to campus. This non-partisan show helped raise campus consciousness of the problems of racism and poverty which exist in American society. In fact, protrayal of American society is a mandatory event during orientation at several colleges. throughout the United States. As a follow up, S.P.A.A. sponsored a one- night workshop on racism. S.P.A.A. also sponsored the League of Women Voters on campus to help register voters. Finally, we sponsored \Know Your Candidates Night\ prior to the November election. This event featured representatives of the Republican party and the _Democratic party each speaking year institutions have increasecd more than 70%. Yet the minimum wage has remailled the same. While it is a fact that some students come from families who are wealthy enough to pay all of their college expenses, the ~rkyrocketing costs associated with higher educati()n are leaving an ever- decreasing number of undergraduates with this option. Acc()rding to the United States Student 'Association, about 40% of full-time college studeats are employed, while 90% ()l part-time students hold jobs. The U.S. Department of Educaticm reports that one out of every five undergraduate stu.deat:; receives no help from either fi11ancial aid programs or their .patents; that is, they rely solely ()n their own teso\Jr.ces to attend college. Aside from increas~ng its financial support of educational for 2() minutes, followed by a questi<>n and answer session. This e-vent helped to raise aware11ess of the major party platfoJms for the Presidential electioll. programs, no activity of govoernment could help tllese stu(Jents more than raising tlle :rnin:imum wage. Apparently, President J3ush doe~n't see it that way. By threatening to veto the · minimum Wage bill unless the increase is. reduced by 30 cents, be·fails to make the connection tetween the :nllriiinum wage · md educationat·oppoltunity. · Moreover, the Presjdent is in~i.ning that any increase in the minimum wage include·a pro-vision for a so-called six- m.()Dth \training wage\ \Lnder \'.lli.ch any worker starti11g a 11ew job could be paid at a · s11bminimum rate of $3.35 an bo11r. Under this system, students working their way. tltrough college would be entitled to earn the higber llrillimum wage <;>nly after they stayed at one job for a italf- :yea:r. Those who work i11terrnittently,or who switch j()bs several times, could end Duri:ng Winter Term, . S.P.A.A. turned its attention to the environment. In weekly <;oncordiensis articles~ S.P.A.A. attempted to raise the campus community's awareness of the many envirollmenta1 problems which our W()rld faces. Four members of S :?~A.A. contributed to the Elevell•th Annual Student Conference on International Affairs at Moudt Holyoke College. This conference focus~ci on \Environmental Management and Resource Devel()pment.\ Through this conference. S.P.A.A. was able to gain ideas which helped to benefit the Union Comrtlunity durillg the Spring term. Steinmetz Hall. These . tec:::ycling bins are part of a gr()wing effort nationwide to cot'lserve and reuse the limited res()urces which out planet }><Jssesses. During the week of Mlly 2-5, S.P.A.A. lleld \Environmental Safety Week\ wll:ich served to raise awareness of many environmental problems. The problems addressed were the Exxo11 Oil S._pill and the debate of oil drilling in the Arctic National. Wildlife Refuge, Non_point So :u.rce Water Pollu:tion, recycling, and the possible The Spring terin has proven to lle a great success for S.P.A,A. Over Spring Break, Red Bins were installed in the Collejge Center and in . modifications to the New York 8()ttle BHI~ S.P.A.A. also promoted awareness of . tile Federal government'·s WIC program, which provides lligh protein foods to impoverished pregnant women, nu.rsing mothers. infants, and y()u.ng children. In conjunctiofl with this; S.P.A.A. performed c01mlllunity service at the Schenectady Day Nusery, v.'bich is a non-profit day care ce:nter for primarily u11derprivileged infants and up earning notlling more than the subminimum wage throughout their sch.ool years. Clearly, thell',. some o( the severest con seq l!ences of the President's training wage proposal would fall on the very individuals our economic system should te~11C()n:taging. In an· ··e:ra ()f: :limited., governm¢l).t resoUI'eeS,·it :Would' seem that raising the 11iiriirnum wage-- and raising it for everyone-- mi~ht he President Bush's best available option for the time being if he truly wants to take that important first step towar<i fulfilling his pledge to be the \education president\. 1'he lesson of experience, h<l\.VeveJ:, tells us that ,campaign Jlf<ll'nises often . amount to· less til an zero after election: day is over. Let's hope the President lives up to this one by changing his mind and signing the minimum wage bill. . young children. .. S.P.A.A. co-spons()red ·an awar-eness table with the · Victims of Fligllt 103 Political Action Committee, Which provided aware11essinfo:tmaton about the events .4n:volving the crash of Pan Am Flight 103 and the su.bsequent investigation. S.P.A.A. also co-sponsored \Educational Empowerment~· .and leadership workshops with\ A Plateful of Questions\ dis.cus-sion group. These workshops offered many ways to augment tlle 'standard' educaron wh.ich students receive while attending college • In addition to the events which S.P.A~A. bas been involved in, we h.ave have also been w.eekly contributors to Concordiensis. This year, 'S.P .A.A. l1as been very active in raising tile C()mmunity's awareness; at'ld we wish to thank all of the people and organizations wllich helped us. We hope to cootinve raising and promoti11g awareness of issues which affect us as students. I

Page 2 By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. ln recent weeks, relations between West Germany and her NATO allies have become particularly tense. The root of this tightness is partially lodged into a policy of rampant appeasement by the German government towards the East and its people. Considering the consequences, both Germany and her allies should reevaluate CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 Qloncnroiensis NEWS ANALYSIS West Germany: A Hot Potato? their grievances. The Germans, for their part, have not been pulling their weight in the agreement. Due to their location, NATO officials have been historically lenient on their abuses. Since Hans-Dietrich Genscher took over as Foreign Minister, West Germany has attempted to abandon support for El Salvador, while continually avoiding action in the fight against communism in Africa and ·elsewhere. All this while talcing full advantage of NATO s11pport in Europe. To these indiscrepancies, NATO has tamed the cheek. However, West Germany bas now leaned towards the Soviet Union on lcey matters in the arms reductions talks. Germany has used as an excuse a desire for detente on both sides of the WalL This is all fine and good, but Germany fails to see the bear in she~p's clothing. The Soviets have continually nicked away at the NATO allies while keeping a smile on th.e public's face. Examples of this are evident most recently in their cuuing of Britain's Moscow embassy staff in half, while compromising on weapons which they have already \in thought\ have scrapped-- in exchange for a West promise on not to update their own. In both of these incidents, the Gennl;Uls have been supportive of the East, thereby crippling the stance of the entire West. Evidence that the Germans have been more than holding hands with the Libyans has only made matters worse. The suspected terrorists of Pan Am Flight 103 have beeR linked to West German intellige11oe, according to The New York Times. Such promiscuity calls for a reworking of policy towards the Deutchers. On the other side of the phenig, West Germany's allies have to be careful in their corralli11g of this ally. German popular opinion is wholeheartedly against a hard- line West approach, and NATO must be wary. Elections ale around tile corner, and the · cooperative Kohl government's security is in queston. NATO has in teal.ity already los:t France ~remember \Not in our airspace.\) and cannot afford to lose such a viable member as West Germany. Germaay must, though, change their policy on who they negotiate with. lf Germany has a problem intemaHy, they should work with their allies to solve it, not undercut them and appease the opposition. This implies ·weakness, and as the most important buffer against the Warsaw Pact, could spell disaster not only for NATO, but for the Germans. The East would like to see a unified Germany. too. Education And It's Ties To Minimum Wage By LANE KIRKLAND President, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations President Bush now has a golden opportunity. to fulfill his campaign pledge to be the \education president,\ and do so without breaking his other promise to hold the line on taxes. He can accomplish this feat by signing into law the compromise minimum wage increase recently adopted by Congress. In addition to easing the plight of America's working poor, who haven't had a raise since 1981, a minimum wage increase from $3.35 to $4.55 an hour would go a long way toward helping millions of teenagers and young adults pay their way through college. The cutbacks in student financial aid programs during the Reagan years have enhanced the significance of student employment to the point where work is now one of America's foremost tuition-assistance programs. Consequently, the minimum wage legislaton is one of the most important education bills that will come before the President in this or any year. Oddly enough, the fact that many of those who earn the minimum wage are teenagers is one of the primary arguments used by the opponents of the increase. These young workers, they say, couldn't possibly have any need for the extra income. Anyone familiar with the cost of a college educaton these days knows that isn't true. Over the past decade, tuition, fees, and room and board expenses at private colleges and universities have nearly doubled. Similar costs for higher education at public four- SPAA Reflects On Past School Year And Looks To The Future By ALAN EISENBERG Students for Political Awareness and Action is a group concerned with appealing to the diversity of students on . this campus. We try to raise and promote awareness in the Union community of many issues which we feel affect us as students. We do this in a non-biased, non-partisan manner, allowing us to better understand the issues. As we approach the end of the school year, S.P.A.A. would like to reflect on its accomplishments for this year. During the Fall, S.P.A.A., along with other campus organizations and academic departments brought American Pictures to campus. This non-partisan show helped raise campus consciousness of the problems of racism and poverty which exist in American society. In fact, protrayal of American society is a mandatory event during orientation at several colleges throughout the United States. As a follow up, S.P.A.A. sponsored a one- night workshop on racism. S.P.A.A. also sponsored the League of Women Voters on campus to help register voters. Finally, we sponsored \Know Your Candidates Night\ prior to the November election. This event featured representatives of the Republican party and the Democratic party each speaking year institutions have increased more than 70%. Yet the minimum wage has remained the same. While it is a fact that some students come from families who are wealthy enough to pay all of their college expenses, the sky rocketing costs associ a ted. with higher education are leaving an ever- decreasing number of undergraduates with this option. According to the United States St11dent Association, about 40% of full-time college students ill'e employed, while 90% of pa11t-time students hold jobs. The U.S. Department of Education reports that one out of every five undergraduate students receives no help from either fin3llcial aid programs or their parents; that is, they rely solely on their own resources to attend C()l!ege. Aside fr<>m increasing its fmancial support of educational for 20 mi11t1tes, followed by a question and answer session. This event helped to raise awareness of the major party platforms for the Presidential election. During Winter Term, S.P.A.A. turned its attention to the environment. In weeldy Concor.<liensis articles, S.P.A.A. t;~ttempted to raise the campus community's awareness of the many environmental problems which our world faces. Four members of S.P.A.A. contributed to the Eleventb. Annual Student Conference on International Affairs at Moun't Holyoke College. This conference focused ()ll \Environmental Management and Resource Development.\ Through this conference. S.P.A.A. was able to gain ideas which helped to benefit the: Union community during the Spring term. The Spring term has proven to be a great success for S.P.A.A. Over Spring Break, Red Bins were installed in the College Center and in programs, no activity of government could help these students more than raising the minimum wage. Apparently, President Bush doesn't see it that way. By threatening to veto the minimum wage bill unless the increase is reduced by 30 cents, he fails to make the connection between the minimum wage and educational opportunity. Moreover, the President is insisting that any increase in the minimum wage include a provision for a so-called six- month \training wage\ under which any worker starting a new job could be paid at a subminimum rate of $3.35 an hour. Under this system, students working their way through college would be entitled to earn the higher minimum wage only after they stayed at one job for a half- year. Those who work intermittently,or who switch jobs several times, could end Steinmetz Hall. TIJ.ese recycling bfns are part of a growing effort nationwide to conserve and reuse the limited resources which our planet possesses. During the week of May 2-5, S.P.A.A. held \Environmental Safety Week\ which served to raise awareness of many environmental problems. The problems addressed were the Exxo11 Oil Spill and the debate of oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, Nonpoint Source Water Pollution, recycling, and the possible modifications to the New York Bottle Bill, S.P.A.A. also promoted awareness of the Federal government's WIC program, which provides high protein foods to impoverished pregnant women, nursing mothers, infants, and young children. In conjunction with this, S.P.A.A. performed community service at the Schenectady Day Nursery, which is a non-profit da:y care center for primarily underprivileged infants and up earning nothing more than the subminimum wage through<Jut their school years. Clearly, then, some of the severest consequences of the President's training wage proposal would fall on the very individuals our economic system should be encouraging. In an era of limited government resources, it would seem that raising the minimum wage-· and raising it for everyone-- might be President Bush's best available option for the time being if he truly wants to take that important ftrst step toward fulfilling his pledge t<l be the \education president\. The lesson of experience, however, tells us that campaign promises often amount to less than zero after election day is over. Let's hope the President lives up to this one by changing his mind and signing the minimum wage bill. young children. S.P.A.A. co-sponsored an awareness table with the Victims <lf Flight 103 Political Action Committee, which provided awareness infmmaton about the events .involving the crash of Pan Am Flight 103 and the subsequent investigation. S .P .A.A. also co-sponsored \Educational Empowerment\ and leadership worksltops with \A Plateflll of Questions\ discussion group. These workshops offered many ways to augment the 'standard' educaton which students receive while attending college. In addition to the events which S.P.A.A. has been involved in, we have have also been weekly contributors to Concordiensis. This year, S.P.A.A. has been very active in raising the community's awareness, and we wish to thank all of the people and organizations which helped us. We hope to continue raising and pr()moting awareness of issues which affect us as students. I ! I > t.

CONCORDIENSIS May 2~, 1989 Page 3 • < College Begins Formal Discussion of en ~· ::l 3: en a: ::c () ~ ·en 0 13 Nott Memorial .· . ::c .·· .. · ·~~ . Professor-s Louise Miller and Thomas Holbrook-:Provow ~re two of the three poli:..sci professors leaving [Tbe following pre~s • We will examine the Nott release is .from the Office i Memorial from ·the perspective or tb.e P,resident.] ! of fut1ue. use, campus priorities, and fun:din.g · Union aft~:H this year. · College Bids Farewell To Three Political, Sc.ience Professors By ELISE. FOODY New Editor · .J things are in today's world.\ 1 .. ~ tbi~d professor leav~ng ~· we approach the end of possibilities. This examination the acad.emic year, I would like . f o.ll ow$ preliminary the College Community to administrative planning }(npw that as part Qf a concerning interrelationships continuing effort to address the among theater facilities,. . facilities need$ of the College, · · Schaffer Library expansion, and we have begpn formal . the Nott. · discu:ssion of the Nett Furthe.-, the question of Memorial in the Planning. an~ general facilities needs is under Priorities Conunittee. · . discussion within the Campus The end' of this school year The Not~ fm many reasons, · Study committee chaired· by . will bring with it various occupies a.specialplace within Professor Peak. That . faculty ch.anges for several our discussion. We must committee is expected to academic departments realize, however, that our submit a report early in the fall ·. throughout the College. The be. will have a greater opportunity to conduct research through the use of the school's Survey Research Center~ He also mentioned dtat the s.tlldent b()dy is much larger than at Union (25,000) and is therefore .. Umon 1s Professor Danus : · Rejafi. Professor Rejali, who has only been at Union for a • also less homogeneous. assessemnt is taking place in temL . department that will be perhaps con:jlinction with a review of · Periodic reports will be made the hardest hit as a result of A second professor scheduled . to leave Union is Professor • Louise Miller. Professor Miller . will be heading to SUNY- . year, will begin teaching at Reed College after the end of this term. His specialty is political theory and third world politics, and Rejali will pursue these interests at his new position. various facilities and program as appropri!lte. We hope to be these chan:ges is the needs at the College. All thj,~ . I able to make further Depalttnertt of PoHtical is taking place within the. announcements as our work Science. Thtee faculty context of a recently developed progresses within the nex;t members from the department · Albany where she will teach American Government and Public LaV!f. She has been at Union since the Fall of 1987, Reed College which is located in Portland, OR, is smaller than Union (1,200 : students) and issues in essence ·no final grades to its students. · Rejali described the school as a . \very intense teaching college\ . and is looking forward to this three-ye~planning cycle. ! academic year. will be leaving the College to teach at different universities. Congratulations New Alumni Council Representative Donna Lazendorl. Concordiensis . extends their congratulations to senior Donna Lazendorf who recently won a position of ~ Alumni Council ~ Representative. ~ lazendorf w--on ~ , the run-off :?:· ~ ·election .against \\' . ~· Wendy Endress this past Monday afternoon. The remaining position was fi.Hed. during last week 1 S Student Forum elections by Josh Wdldman. Saxton, Porter, SPeir Sch:olarships All Union students who are accepted and defin~tely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to. Prof. Board in the Pol. Sci. Dept. by July 1, 1989. Professor Thomas Holbrook- Provow will be leaving Union to begin teaching American politics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He has been at Union since the Fall of 1987. Holbrook- Provow mentioned that he enjoyeq very much his two years at Union, and stated that his stay at the college \has truly been a learning experience.u Holbrook-Provow is looking forward to starting at Wisconsin- Milwaukee because . and has also previously taught atSUNYA. She mentioned that she has especially enjoyed teaching and working with the students here. . She particuarly enjoyed teaching a course called Women and the Law and was . impressed by the number of men who enrolled in the course both terms it was offered. Professor Miller \encourages Union students to continue to think creatively and in a new way that will change the way challenge. He stated that he also enjoyed teaching at Union but mentioned that there are all types of liberal arts colleges and is excited about the prospects of teaching at such a unique one. Concordiensis wishes . these and all departing i professors the best of luck as ! they embark on their respective ·ventures. FitzHugh Ludlow Shirts FY C Proposes Changes In Greek Rush are on sale in Mrs. Marra's Office for $5.00 INTERNSHIPS Continued f.rom page 1 the coming year.\ ·.a Freshman Center. The goal The IFC has stated that it 11 of the Freshman Center is to would not support the proposal I 1 \create a space that freshmen unless specific changes were: i identify comfortably as their made .. The SAC has yet to vote: i ~wn, in which both learning on th1s proposal but hopes to. , activites and social functions do so before the year is out. : 1 can take place.\ Approval of One final proposal which has ' this plan is required by the not yet been approved by the· FYC as well as the SAC. This Freshman Year Committee proposal too is expected to. be involves the implementation of · voted on by year's end. •The Brooklyn Museum of Brooklyn, NY is seeking candidates to fill three internships for the summer and six internships for the 1989-90 academic year. Minority students are encouraged to apply. Deadline is May 3 1, 1989. -. •The West Hill Improvement Corpor.ation, a non-profit neighborhood housing agency in Albany has internships available that involve surveying, rehabilitation inspections, drafting, design work and packaging of grant applications. •Residential Opportunities, Inc. of the Capital District offers internships to students interested in working in areas related to social work, psychology, physical therapy, human services and rec-reation. •More information on these and other internship'S is available at the Career Development Center on the third floor of . Old Chapel.

I l I > CONCORDI.ENSIS May 25, 1989 College Begins Formal Discussion of Nott Memorial [The f()llowing press release is from the Office of the P.resident.] As we .approach the end of the acadentic year, I would. like the Colle~e Commu,nity to know that as part of a continuing effort to address the fadlities n.eeds of the College, we bave begun formal discussion of the Nott Memorial, in the Planning and Priorities Committee. The Nott, for many reasons, occupies a. special place within our disc11ssion. We must realize, however, th~t our assessemtlt is taking !)lace in conjunction with a review of various facilities and program needs at the College. All thi~ is taking place witli.in the context of a recently developed three-year planning cycle. We will examine the Nott Memorial from the perspective of future use, campus priorities, and funding possibilities. This examination . follows pre Hminary administrative planning concerning inten:e1ationships among theater facilities, Schaffer Library expansion, and the Nott. Further, the question of general facilities needs is under discussion within the Campus Study committee chaired by Professor Peak. That committee is expected to submit a report early in the fall term. Periodic reports will be made as appropriate. We hope to be I able to make further announcements as our work progresses within the next academic year. Congratulations New Alumni Ccuncil Representative Donna Lazendorl. Concordiensis extends their congratulations to senior Donna Lazendorf who recently won a position of ~ Alumni Council ~ Representative. ~ ~ Lazendorf won ~ , the run-off g election against ~ Wendy Endress this past Monday afternoon. The remaining position was filled during last week's Student Forum elections by Josh Waldman. Saxton, Porter, Sp,eir Scholarships All Union students who are accepted and definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to Prof. Board in the Pol. Sci. Dept. by July 1, 1989. rn ~ ::J ....J ~ rn a: :c 0 >- OJ rn § • . _.if . Professors Louise Miller and Thomas Holbrook-Provow (ire two of the three poli-sci professors leaving Union after this year. CoUege Bids Farewell To T.h,ree ,Political Science By ELISE FOODY New Editor The end of this school year wiU bring with it various faculty changes for several academic departments throughout the College. The departmettt that will be perhaps the hardest hit as a result of these changes is the Department of Political Science. Three faculty members from the department will be leaving the College to teach at different universities. Profess0r Thomas Holbrook- Provow will be leaving Union to begin teaching American politics at the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee. He has been at Union since the Fall of 1987. Holbrook- Provow mentioned that he enjoyed very much his two years at Union, and stated that his stay at the college \has truly teen a learning experience_\ Holbrook-Provow is looking forward to starting at Wisconsin- Milwaukee because FitzHugh Ludlow Shirts Professors he will have a greater opportunity to conduct research through the use of the school's Survey Research Center. He also mentioned that the student body is much larger than at Union {25,000) and is therefore also less homogeneous. A second professor scheduled to leave Union is Professor Louise Miller. Professor Miller will be heading to SUNY- Albany where she will teach American Government and Public Law. She has been at Union since the Fall of 1987, . and has also previously taught at SUNY A. She mentioned that she has especially enjoyed teaching and working with the students here. She particuarly enjoyed teaching a course called Women and the Law and was impressed by the number of men who enrolled in the course both terms it was offered. Professor Miller \encourages Union students to continue to think creatively and in a new way that will change the way I things are in today's world.\ , A third professor leaving : Union is Professor Darius Rejali. Professor Rejali, who has only been at Union for a year, will begin teaching at Reed College after the end of this term. His specialty is political theory and third world politics, and Rejali will pursue these interests at his new position. Reed College which is located in Portland, OR, is 1 smaller than Union (1 ,200 . students) and issues in essence no final grades to its students. Rejali described the school as a \very intense teaching college\ and is looking forward to this challenge. He stated that he also enjoyed teaching at Union but mentioned that there are all types of liberal arts colleges and is excited about the prospects of teaching at such a unique one. Concordiensis wishes . these and all departing . professors the best of luck as \ they embark on their respective ·ventures. FYC Proposes Changes In Greek Rush Continued from page 1 are on sale in Mrs. the coming year.\ 1 a Freshman Center. The goal The IFC has stated that it 'I of the Freshman Center is to would not support the proposal i i \create a space that freshmen unless specific changes were: 1 identify comfortably as their made .. The SAC has yet to vote ; \ 0wn, in which both learning on this proposal but hopes to ! activites and social functions do so before the year is out. 1 can take place.\ Approval of Marra's Office for $5.00 One final proposal which has · this plan is required by the not yet been approved by the FYC as well as the SAC. This Freshman Year Committee proposal too is expected to be involves the implementation of · voted on by year's end. INTERNSHIPS •The Brooklyn Museum of Brooklyn, NY is seeking candidates to fill three internships for the summer and six internships for the 1989-90 academic year. Minority students are encouraged to apply. Deadline is May 31, 1989. • The West Hill Improvement Corporation, a non-profit neighborhood housing agency in Albany has internships available that involve surveying, rehabHitation inspections, drafting, design work and packaging of grant applications. • Resi rJential Opportunities, Inc. of the Capital District offers internships to students interested in working in areas rei ated to social work, psychology, physical therapy, human services and rec-reation. •More information on these and other internships is available at the Career Development Center on the third floor of Old Chapel. ;~~~:·Gpml ,''~~= .,-· No circulating or reserve materials will ~ charged out. No reference desk services. Please help us to· keep food and drink restritted to tb.e All Night Study area. Thank. you.

. Page 4. CONCORDIENSIS May 25, .1989 By JACQUELINE RANDALL Cancer is the number two killer disease in the United States. It is found more often in older persons than in people our age. Yet, this disease can take as long as twenty years to reach a detectable state. There are many ways we can protect ourselves from cancer: one is by changing our dietary intake. By reducing fat consU:mption and eating more fruits and vegetables, we can minimize our risk of developing this disease. What is cancer and how does it affect us? Cancer refers to normal cells in our bodies that become abnormal and grow There will be a required Senior Thesis Meeting for all students planning to do a Senior Thesis in 1989/90 in the Sociology and Anthropology Department. This meeting is required in full a.nd Inter Departmental Majors. PLACE: Social Science Faculty Lounge 2nd Floor Social Sciences Building. TIME: 6:00 - 8:00 pm All19·89/90 Senior Thesis · · students are required to submit a thesis topic by · May 30 to Professor Huggins. FEATURES The Health And Fitness ·c·olumn wild. When this tumor grows, it interferes. with the normal functioning of the org,an or tissue. If these cancerous cells are alive, the,y can take nutrients from the host's diet or body reserve. Certain environmental and hnereditary factors can cause cancer. We can inherit traits that are passed on to us through our genes. The environment includes the air we breathe,. the food we eat and the things that we come into contact with. Approximately one-thir.d of all the cancer deaths are related to what we eat. Cancer can be related to ounliet because food may be the vehicle for bringing carcinogens into our bodies .. These carcinogens include artificial sweeteners, such as saccharin and nitrates which are found in smoked and pickled foods. Some toxins that occur naturally in foods may cause cancer such as flatoxin, a fungus thatr can develop on potatoes and cotn. A nutrient deficiency may cause cancer development. In addition, an excess of some of the nutrients may induce abnormalities that favor cancerous growth. By avoiding, carcinogenic foods, we can reduce our riskof cancer. Also, we should eat healthy and lower the amount eati11~ mote fiber foods. Also, of. fat, aotcohol and salt we :it is important to include fpocls intake. Some studies show a ri:<:ll i'n Vitamin A, C, and JL link be~ween fat in the diet , Vit!l:min A plays an with cancers of tlte liver, impl)::rtant role in the pmcess prostate, pancreas, and testes. 'by which our cells devel!>p _to Also,. a high-.fat diet is lillk:e<l form reJ.ifferent body tissuesC A in some w.ay to the higher risk deficiency ,in tliis vitillllin nay- of breast and colon callcer. leadto abnormal cell and :tissu.e Excessive alcohol and smokillg ,grow-tfi. Sources of Vitamin A may lead to a nsk of cancers of are cmots, apricots, broccoli,. the mouth,. throat and lungs. If gJJeell Cinions, romaine lettuce, we eat foods high in sooillltl, nectarines, peaches, a11d this may lead to risks of :canta}()upe .. stomach cancer. Vitamin C is known to h~ve Signs and symptoms of same effect in .prev.en ting . cancer depend on the location carcillogens from being active · in ()U.f body. Sources of of the a:bnormal gr()wtlt. V'it~mnin C are in citrus .f:ru:its Cancer can produce geneJal and. ill ~~ed potatoes {with the waming signals. Some of tllse sti:n). Vitamin E is involved in include fatigue,. weakness, loss · of appe··· tite., ·.a chang· e in towel antli>leidant activity inv()lving ceU membranes. Some fC3ocls or bladder habits, an unhealing sore, unusual bleeding or richin Vitamin E include green discharge;, a thickening C3r bimp lea:fr vegetables. Vitamins A alld c can reduce the risk of in the body, indigesti<1n or problems swallowing, an c anc:e:r of (he esophagus, obvi<;>us change in. a ·wart or larytu., and lungs. Also, by mole. .adlling cruciferous vegetables to o.ur diets, we can reduce tile Ways of reducing the risk. of riskdf stomach cancers. cancer are not smoki11g or Tile news of cancer is rarely staying in a .smoke-filled g:oocl. 'But~ there are dietary · environment, avoiding ::x-rays. vwa:ys we can protect ourselves when possible, avoiding ti:o11tthis disease. By choosing obesity, minimiz.img seasonal fruits and vegetables cons11mption of 11moke<l, :high in Vitamin A. c. and E, salted, or pickled foods, a:nd incorpo:ratin~ them into limiting alcohol consumpticn, our :meals, . w.e . can hoQefoJly , cutting down on fat int*e, ~d reducec our, cancer risk. ATI'ENTION ECONOMICS MAJORS - INTERNATIONAL ·ECONOMIC,S (ECO 144) T., TI-l. 8:50 - 10:30 Prof.: Hal Fried Please Note: ( 1 J This course Will NOT be taught Winter terna. · (2) ECO 31 and 42 are recommended prerequisites .. Concurrent enrollment is acceptable.· See the instructor for further details. CARDS are available from the Department Secretary. - F J J

CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 Page 5 Features That Make The Nott Memoriat A Unique Building By JILL PIDLIPPS On the interior .of the Nott is the orna,te . encaustic tile Nearly anybody that walks flooring. Tb.is style .of the tile b:Y the. Nott .can't :help but to pavement was common in feel its· sense of uniq.u:eness. ·England in the 1830's, and But whJ}t is it .that makes the spread to the United States N:ott different from tile other about 40 years later. The tiling abuildings? WeU, in contrast to was P.I\OVi.ded from Engbmd by the Neo-Classic style of .tbe Mrs, Alexander Brown,. a rest .of · Union, the Nott relative. of H()WaJid Potter of the . diverges from this prevailing Alu.mni Association. These style with its High Gothic tiles of umber, blues, reds, and design. Originally, the N ott green color$ really liven up the was to be. in the design of a interior of the building. Roman Pautbeon, as planned Presently, a plywood floor fot bye French architect Jacques the theatre covers most of this Ramee. However, this· plan floor from view. was changed to the domed,.16- . The windows and catwalk sided rotu.nda, as in th:e present- beneath the dome (the chrum) Clay Nott; are also intertlsting features of the Gothic· exterior· of the the Nott. In place of these - Nott is made up of stone walls, were, originally, a wooden while the interior has an iron dnim enclosure and wooden framewor~. The Nott consists walkway which were very of 3 levels, the first of which common at the end of the 19th on the . outside lias the doors centu.ry when it was added. It and 12 sets of three columns was in 1902(-03) thatthe wood with unfinished capitals. The drum and walkway were exterior of the second level removed and replaced by a includes the 16 arches, and. tbe window and peripheral third, elongated windows in walkway made of steel and sets of 'thr~e with smaller wood, When the catwalk was \The work is great, the day is short, the master presses the workmen.\ Chosen by a former Philosophy professor at Union, Dr. Thomas Lewis, the quote was taken frQm a longer .quote from the Talmud, which dates back to 200 AD. Rather than l:eaving the dome with a senseless pattern of slates, be thought it would be more useful to leave a quote for people to interpret its meaning. These features are just a part 0f the reason why the Nott Memorial was placed on the National Register of Cultural and f!istoric Places on May 5, 1972, and was designated as a N ationaJ Historic Landmark on June 24, 1986. Also, this is a reason why ther~ is much concern. for the Nott Memorial's condition since its placing on the priority one list of this Nation's Endangered Landmarks. windows abo·ve them. in good condition, you could ~. Birthdays Supporting the' third floor get .a captivating view of the extension on the interior are ,Mohawk Valley .·and Union iron trusses,. Which 'were added · C o I: 1 e g e ,camp u s . to the beams in 1902(-03) Urifortuantely, this walkway is · By KiUSTlE ARNHOLD that one?) - in any case, changes always came. Even last year brought with it my gleeful rise to the drinking age. t am now a:ble to consume alcohol legally throughout the states of America, and I will remember that birthday and some of the night for a 'long time to come. 20 was kind of a. let down, teenagerdom left along with its glamorous scapegoat qualities.· 18 of course allowed me the cherishe(l privilege .of the franchise, and 19 permitted me the last year of being a fun loving young person. But this year will be the worse of all. 22. What privilege do I' get this year? Does my allowance increase? It seems unlikely unless I enter the job world. Increased responsibility? i might have to pay my own car insurance; but none of these are happy tbougbts. Your mother harps, \I was married and pregnant when I was your age.\ I think tbat I will pass on that state of affairs. always found my birthday to be at a rather apropriate time. At Christmas I received all of my winter clothes from Santa, and for my birthday, I received all of my summer clothes. This particular gift motif was sufficient for me from grade 6 through about grade 12. Recently, clothes have lost their appeal; of course I still wear them, but acquiring a pile of them for my birthday is not a major concern. when the N\att was modified no lorrger safe enough. to use into a library. Although these because it has .suffered were thought to add support, deterioration. they actually caused a slight And of course, the dome, bending of the cast iron being one of .the Nott's most ~tlJlftur~ .~u~)5?. ~e.~~~~~~ 9~ ... p~<>~p~~t fe~~~s~ .CO?f!iJ>ut~s tlie·heavy·boofe·as-es· on the·· ·to ·tile buiimng's rarity. Tile third floor. interior of the dome is a dark, In describing the different cobalt blue, decorated with elements of the Nott, let us stained glass illuminators begin at its entrance. Four which shine colored rays of wooden entrance steps were light down into the Nott. The added leading to the four illtuninators are arranged so exterior oak doors in 1872. that the ones on the northern TheN ott originally had four side are the sacred colors, and doors, which were designated to the ones on the southern side signify the foU\r .cmmpass are the colors of the Newtonian , points. Then, during the speetrum. The exterior of the modification of the Nott in dome is made of pblychrome 1900( -01), cement steps to the slate in the colors of red, green, . doors were conSt:r'Qcted on the and purple. Along the lower south side, and the east and part ofthe dome runs a band of west doQrs were filled with slates with. Hebrew lettering, stonework and glass. ...... which in tran5lation reads: 'Distorc£iensiS • 1S coming! 10th week There is a special day coming, everyone e:x:periences one of these days, but this one · is extra special. It is my birthday. Altllough it is over a m(nitli away, its ·date is branded in my mind. All year the · month of June has a special · ring to it, and why? Because my birthday is in that month. Although I am not shaking in anticipation, ill the far reaches of my mind I am excited ab9ut my birthday. Every year it happens, you wait and wait and the big day arrives, and it goes, and you wait and wait again for another year. It is actually rather anti- climatic; there is the cake, presents, dinner,. but really nothing great ·~ maybe a ·surprise party. When you're ; little, birtb.days are grand. · \Another year\ generally signifies a higher alowance, greater privileges and the \assumin~g of more responsibility\ (didn't you love When I was younger, I Despire my old age, and relatively dwind.ling enthusiasm for birthdays, there is one thi;ng about my birthday that will never change -- I hope. It is my day. I don't make my bed, I don't have to make my own breakfast, I have my choice of activities for the day, my choice of a dinner menu, my choice of friends to atrend my birthday dinner, and whatever type of cake I want If anyone asks me to do something, I can say no simply · because it is my ~irthday. According to Dt Spock,breathing can be hazardous to your children's health. Air pdllutior i-; all around us and it hurts children infections. When infections are coupled with irritating air mo~r. Kid~ inhale more pollutants per pound than ndulr.c;, pollutants the damage to young lungs is intensified. and their length ol'cxposurc is longer, which increases So do what Dr..Spock recommends. Call or w,ritc their risk or pa~mancnt damage. Additionally, children -\\\- ... , the Public l11forrnation Office of the Sierra Club and under 10 have an increased rate of respiratory •• ~~. find out what you can do to help dcartl1c air. Public' Information 730 Polk Street San Francisco, California 94109 415/776~2211

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 FEATURES Camp Union By RICK HOWARD for the Student Forum and the Camp Union Committee Camp Union will take on a slightly different appearance this year. We'll still have the .same sun, fun and frolicking as in the past, bu:t an emphasis will be placed on safety. In the face of other schools cancelling .their equivalent of Camp Union due t<J similar problems · of bottle throwing, injuries from broken -glass, excessive litter,. high schol and other underage drunkenness, Can the bOttles at Camp Union! problems which have· also touclted Union, our school has decided to give Camp Union another chance. To save Camp . Union the .Administration, the Student Forum,. the Camp Union Committee, and concerned otlters, have been meeting regularly tp set down ground rules for this event. These niles are reasonable, easy to follow, and not overly taxing, designed with our safety in rnJnd and with the intention to keep the tradition of C~m,p Union available for fu~ure Unioni~s to e:ijjoy. . . These rules consist of the following,: Shnply stated there are no.glass bottles of any .size, shape, or color allowed. Broken, glass has :been a problem in the past and has caused serious injuries for.: not a few fellow students. Stitches and shots tend to ruin one's. day, and·there are better ways to remember the day than witb a scar. The ban is also meant to protect the Friday nigh.t. ·· movie projectiqnist whose safety .has been endangered by ballistic bottles. Let's face it -- there is not much you can buy in bottles. which you can't also buy in cans. Next, everyone will be required to wear a wristband which will be. sent to you in your mailbox. You can pick an . extra one up for your friend, and obtain others from those not having guests. Bands are mainly to keep outsiders, inclu.aing · young highschool age people, awa.y·frot.n food we are paying far and.· out of trouble. 'this will make it easier to haud.le any security problems that may arise - if you have no band and there is trouble you will be escorted from campus. So ·wear your wristband. After an hour or .so you won·~ even ·care if you haveoneon. · Finally, use your head. We are all reasonably responsib1e college studetns who can. have a good time without jeopm:dizing the safety and well-being of ourselves, other students and friends. 'These rules are eloquently simple to follow and, eloquently stated, if they aren't· this could be the last Camp Union ever. So have a great time at Camp Uniot1, but do it With cups.orcans ... and a wrist band ·on your hand. This Didn't Happen On A Monday By JENNIFER WINTRICH If I could have studied outside I would have, but aU of the smiling people running around and saying \Isn't it soooo beautiful out!' made .me distraught, angry, and bewilderaed that I had to (and still must) catch up on a month's worth of work in a few hours,. so I decided to head for Schaffer Library. Little did I know that I was heading to a \temple of doom,\ a sweltering repository for tormented procrastinators, such as myself, and dedicated students of academicia whose sweat. on their brows is a product of strained concentration. For me ,)~ it was simply~ a response to the heat. I think that anyone, upon entrance tooiJ! library, can lose ·five pounds in about five minutes. This may be an exaggeration, but I doubt it. Here reality is twisted, .and I am becoming delirious, like a stranded sarvivor on a desert who has vi.suali~ed s·weeping palms and a beckoning glint in the distance. and filled with hope, funs, falls, and thea runs to that imagilled body of water, and unconsciously .drinks handfuls of sand. I am surviving, but growing desperate. Exam time is here, and accommodating space in the library is ever present. It is so easy ~o get a quiet, comfortable IND'IAN BLA·N:K'ET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90. And Choice of Blue Or Brown. AUthentiC Indian Design Each one Personally BlEssed BY Wise Owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drown.Jng creek Reservation $150. Value For Only S39. Postpaid Satisfactl.on Guaranteed .. · The Only Blanket Offered TO The Public Btesse<l By Indian Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help Urgently Needed By Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Owt, Drowning creek Reservation, .R#2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364 space where I can work. Sweat runs down my back soaking my shirt, plastering my skin to the Naugahyde cushion beneath me, and I reillinisce of ·those days of sitting in my grandpa's old, unairconditioned Buick on the way to Mr. Frosty for a double scoop with sprinkles, not \jimmies and laughing about the funny patterns imprinted on my legs where I was stuck to the vinyl car seat. But I'm not on the way to Mt. Frosty's, and I'm definitely not laughing. I am going insane in my cubicle as the guy next to me is tapping hi.s pen tn an irregular beat, and the girl on my other side is unirttelligbly singing off key along with a tune on her Sportsman. I can't rightly blame them for disturbing my peace for they . are probably going through . their own private hell as I am. I just didn't want to be, privy to theirs; my own did more than suffice. So, determined to read at least a page ·every two minutes, I put my hands over my ears, and while turning · . each ,page let out an intermittent sigh to contribute my share to the caucaphony. - Soon my eyes grew heavy, and discouraged with ·my lack of concentration, I went in search of someone to share in my misery. I was sidetrackied reading all of the scribblings on the walls and was tempted to erase some nasty remarks and write something nice, perhaps even funny, enlight~ning, · or just· plain stupid, but the din from the fluourescent lights dulled my tired brain. I did read next to the window .something about Milton and realized that I had. to write something about his writings, as well as read a little bit more too, so I went down to ~he card catalog and found many listings for secondary sources. My search began, and seemed to never end. I sort of confused the order of one book's call number and 64 7 .003dTnMhaha, or whatever it. happened to be, wasn't to be found. So I asked for some .~sistance, which was truly helpful, and I found the · section I was looking for, but not the book. It was gone .. The whole row was gon:e as we~l. Ugh. I thought that i would · have_ a conniption· and tear up the ugly linoleum, but I didn;t want tbe added expense tacked onto my tuition,. so I headed for the peace and serenity to be found in Davidson with people playing volleyball in the cour{y ard. to the accompaniment of Guns and Roses. At least I had the comforting breeze from my porta6le fan to. cool my frustration. My panic .does prevail, ·· as does my procrastination, but at least I know it's for .the last time this school year. I guess . I'll . eventually trudge back there and perhaps fmd a coveted third floor desk tucked away in an obscure comer; after I attempt to clean my ·room, do some laundry, nuke some burritos ... EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY · NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION • . 1400 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036·2266 · The Department OfSociology And Anthropology Invites You To Attend The SPRING TERM LEWIS HENRY MORGAN COLLOQUIA MAY30th. Dr. Martha Huggins, Associate Professor Of Sociology \LATIN AMERICAN A-UTHORITARIANISM: PARADIGMATIC AND THEORTICAL ISSUES'' 3:30 - SOCIAL SCIENCES 103

Page 7 . . . INTERNATIONAL FEATURES lnterna,ti_onaii.D. Card OHers Special Benefits. For Stu:dents Traveling Abroad MoFe than 1.3 million students in 62 countries this year will obtain lower aitf~es, visit museums and theaters. at reduced rates and tap int() ··l:l toll- free, 24-hour travel assistance botline by cvarryi~g the International Studerit I.i:>. Card, made available since 1951 by the International Student Travel Confederation, a wQrldwide federation of student travel organizations based in Zurich, Switzedand. . \The International Student LD~ Card helps high school and college students enjoy interi1ational travel · at a discount and also provides a coFtpre~ensive pack!lge of benefits that reduces at1xieties about traveling abroad,\ says Anne Bellows, of The Council on International Edacational Exchange, the U.S . .sponsor of ~he card. \it's the only in~mationally recogniZed proof of student status.\ · Americans .tend to be surprised that st11deEts have a special status in foreign countries and: ~e ·entitled to reduced rates for travel, lodging$ and; cultlll\al events, says Bellows. Major benefits. include domestic and i11temational travel discounts :by air, rail, bus and ferry; disc()unts on accommodations ancl:shopping, reduced or free [(}mission to museums, theaters, cinemas and other places ()f interest. There is also a basic accid~nt/sickness insurance package irtcluded. While the discOlltits are of special appeal to the student ttaveler, the card's new T!;avel Assistance Service is particularly poJiular with parents. \It's reassuring f<>r parents to know .that in case of a medical, .legal or financial.energency -- from locating an English- speaking doctor t() llelp in replacing a lost passport -- a student traveling abroad can dial a toll-free number and get help,\ says Bellows. \The hotline also helps student travelers with practical advice such as necessary health precautions for travel to remote areas and even information about car rentals, exchange rates and the date of national holidays.'' Students who are at least 12 years. old and enrolled in a program of study leading to a diploma or a degree at an accredited seconaary or post- secondary educatgional institution are eligible for the card. Maximum age restrictions may apply for some of the ·discounts. Information about how to obtain the card, which costs $1 0; is avail ale by contacting the Council on International Educational Exchange, Dept. 16, 205 East Third St., New York, NY '10017. (212) 661-1414. International Drin.k Of The Week \THE GREEK . SLAMMER\ 2 Shot Glasses Of Ouzo • '\\ t ... ' , ... . . . . .. J2 ,Fl~. ~oz .. Of {3ffv~n Up . · ·· ·shake WeU-And ·serve· tJnder The Sun Impressions From Germany By CAROLYN DUNN Greetings .from Freiburg, Germany! We, are alive and well on our term abroad. There are thirteen of us here enrolled at the Goethe-Institut in , Freiburg, a city in southwest Germany. Prof. Sargent is also here with his family. . Freiburg is an old city, dating back to the 12th century, located in the \Schwarzwald\--Black Forest. There is plenty to do and see irt Freiburg, but unfortunately our first month here was very rainy and cold. May has been only warm and su.nny so far. The Goethe-Institut is about a twenty-minute walk from our apartment building. There are only abo11t 200 students enrolled here at the Goethe- Institut, and the average age is thirty. The students here are from almost every nation in the world. Many of them are learning German for occupational reasons. We live in the Baslor Tor Studentenwohnheim, an apartment complex-type building of eight floors, and we share suites with other students of the Goethe-Ins titut. Every week we receive 260 or 270 DM for living expenses. We can either spend our money on decent meals during the week, or make (bearable?) food in our kitchenettes and use the rest of the money on the weekend. Weekends ate very important here. Many students have Eurrarl passes, so frequent travel is convenient. Not many of us can be fo11nd here in Freiburg on weekends anyway. Popular weekend destinations include: Austria. Switzerland, France, Italy, or other areas in Germany. 0 yeah--academics. We have our language classes from 8 AM to 1 PM Monday through Friday-- we do get short breaks in between though. But, it is still harsh sitting in the same room for five straig,ht hours. (Be thankful your classes are only an hour.) On Mondays and Thursdays we meet for \The First Reich: Imperial Germany 962-1806 (History 53) with Prof. Sargent. Our in-class lectures are augmented by several class outings to historical sites. It is a good course, but you will not get to see all the REAL castles and churches if you take it at Union. Overall impression: a great experience. I've really enjoyed getting away fora term. We are learning a lot both in and outside of the classroom. Do a term abroad! There is so much to be seen and experienced. )ottt tt~e lltttttttattottal features 1team - '4totttaet fltttbtt 374-3833 INTERNATIONAL · FEATU'RES CONGRATULATES THE INTERNATIONAL STUDENT UNION FOR. A SPECTACULAR INTERNATIONAL WEEK! INTEF:iNATIONAL QUESTION OF THE WEEK by Anthee Carassavas If you could be any . International figure, who wouiC;I you be? Brett Malofsky '89 - a circle Scott Halpert '91 - ·Donald Trump. He is a financial wizard. Kenya .Lenoir '90 - Mahat ma Gandi Michael Graner '89 - Bob Marley Gregory Watson '90 ... Cristina Calvi Kevin Ireland '89 - Louis XIV; money, power, and decadence. Anthee Carassavas '89 e Any one - other than Kevin Irland ... Robert McDonald '92 - Mickey Mouse Mary Mersky '91 - Well ... I'd like to have Reagan's humour, Gorbachev' s intelligence, and Spud McKenzi~'s looks.

· Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS May 'tS, 1989 Who do you bet will win the Concordiensis/WRUC Softball Game? Concordiensis [~ WRUC D They're all talk Place your bets at the College Center Information Booth. Proceeds Go To Big Brothers, Big Sisters Come find out for yourself[ J ~ne 1 at 4:30 on Library Field! New AluiD.ni Council Re-presentatives «· ' Congratulations to Donna Lanzendorf and Josh Waldman Donna Joshua Lanzendorf W aidman ALL GRADUATING SENIORS WILL COLLEGE LOANS (NDSL/Perkins, UC Gen, Swope, Ryder, Nelson, Schaffer) Y()u must see Mrs. Mitchell BEFORE Graduation ... College Center Auditorium May 30, 31 & June 1 10:00 am-2:00pm ALL questions answered about loans ... grace periods payments deferments Campus Photo · :: , Please _gather on West .. Wall after the frrst band ·has finished on ' Saturday .. c·h.anges in the exam schedu.le: SPN - 121 -01 Moved to SSCI 012 -02 CHM .. 010 -01 . -o2 e·urR 203 . -03 CH·M -012 -,01 .;.Q2 ·s.All 207 MTH -014 -01 S,SCI t04 -03 l LISTeN TQ ... NOTE: The College Center will close Many .thanks to the Student P·honathon Committee: on Friday, May 26 at 7:00p.m~ and will re-open on Sunday, May 28 at 10:00 a.m. The Center will be closed al_l day Saturday, May 27. , ........................ '- ............... \- ............ , ' .......................... , ...... ' \'\... '' ,, ''' ................... , ...... , ............. ' ~ ACT IN TV· COMMERCIALS ~ ~ No Experience AllAges \ ~ Children, Teens, Young Adults., -~ • ~ Families, Mature People, Animals, Etc. ~ ~ CHARM STUDIOS -~ ~ CALL NOW! . ~ . ~ (313) 542-8400 ~ . ·- -·~· ~· Josh Waldman '89 Liz Wallach '89 Kim Quirk '89 Judy Bruhn '89 Steve Hall '90 llana Klein '89 Dave Wachtel '90 M. J. Conley '90, Cindy Silverio '91 Ed Stevens '90 Best of luck to our graduat-ing- seniors; and· we]e.ome to our newest ~members: Dan Waible '91. Sheri Yanofsky '91 Ken Berlack '91 Dennis Foley '92 Louise Oster. '92 Julie Medow '92 \ Ext. A-7414 \. ,,,,,,,,,,,, ...... ,, ...... ,,, ...... ,,,,,, ........ ~ ...... ,, ............ , ...... ~ ··\'-------------------~

CONCORDIENSIS M4y 25y 1989 Page 9 ' •• : -\ ( • ,, ' •• • • ' ~ • • ~ ' • • • .·, ' • '. • • • ' • •• '. • \ • • • • • • • • • • ' \ • • ' • ' • J • • • ' • • - ;:~ . ' A :NEW CAMP· UNION CAMLP UNION Jl®8~ ... . - ··~ . -· : ,: . ... \'~ ,...\\, '·\\\«) t.i\a l!'f fl• \f.\\\'i1 1 1 • 1 · ·;r·;\ ·.7> , -.-, • .,_ ii t> ~'OI·' l\ u\. ;I\\' <'>('I lit l•r· ~\\-\'\ 1,-:J • ...,. ~rl _,...,! ,-,, .•. , ·.~· ''-!\'I r, .~·--·- I '· ,·-, -· .• ~ 'r. 'I /. ., 1 J ~r l \ · ' 1 • v ~ ., ., t• .·. ·' ·I ., · : 1 • ·1 ,, , \ , 1 , 1 · ) • , • r- · \....lC • 1 \ ,, ·, ., ~.J... ~Yo \~v \ V e'l 0; o \.)sJ lU~ i /1 .~.-1JL o ~) c01J1.Jl ·:~ .. ~ i-.:) V J~ 1.. . <1 \C ~ lL, -~-~-' l.\_; ·;_~ ·.~:J -~L .S. 12:00 : V.Vilson Blru1e 21nd1 tl~~~ Blu1<e Roo·fs Reggae Band; 2:00: 1\JRBQ: 4:00: vrom To111 Clubo 1 :00-4:~00 pm: Free characatures on West Beache 8:00 pm: Comeqian Rich Hall ·performing in Memorial Chapel. REMEM.BER: NO GLASS BOTTLES, ONLY CANS AND CUPS!!! T-Shirts are on sale. Look for wristbands in ' ··your mailbox ~ your ticket to Camp Union ' WJoofl®oo ©®UU&@J~ . ~Jf)@®JkCB~ J1i®V1!I!fii!a . ) ,· '=:..'; . -. ~'Prese'llti; RICH.HALL .. .:-··Comedian-· cti&JJ.ii)UlfJ . f!Jootl®OO ~flo$) Jl'il@I!j $7/ fGJg@® [f)offfi!o m@®®rri!@U ··©lh@JPr8U USE TRASH ~ ,, • J1im1B JF~ ~ CANS!

Page 10 CONCD_R'DJENSIS May 25, 1.989 Qtnnrorbirnsis LETTERS Founded at Union College 1877 --- End Apathy Enter~ Activism · College- Center Drives Out Cabar~t : To theEditors: The ·Cabaret gives students : an opportunity to perf()tm their Union students when questioned as to whether the talents while entertaiming their major adversity found on college cal1)puses is that of . · peers. Unfortunately the ignorance or,. apathy would most likely reply, \I don't . interest in ·this event has know and I don't care.\ This camp us attitude, · · .greatly diminished in the past , however, may soon face some transformation. few years. Peopl~ once waited The current trend. of apathy, passive involvement and in lines to attend a C~baret but lack of intellectual concerns may soon be replaced with: • today' the Cabaret is very a scouring for knowledge and answers and learning for·: infre'J.llent and not as well 1 attended, • learning's sake as we 1 as an attitude that yes~ WE CAN make a difference. Mu.ch of the reaso11 for the Through the Freshman Year Committee's efforts lost interest in the Cabatet can be attributed to the new college these attitudes could soon become a. reality at Union. ·. center. In the old Carnegie, the The formation of a Freshman Center would introduce • Cabaet was given a private new Union students to a particular ffi()de of thought. room with a very relaxed ·This Center would promote tile integration of· atmosphere. It cons.isted .of learning with socializing, spurn personal growth and.· booths, carpeting, dim intellectual exchange as well as build an \atmosphere · lighti.rrg, a piano, lllld it was of curiosity, exploration and openness.\ Their goal i~ · simii!H to a coffeehouse. to \orient students towards a posture of ·activism and Faculty members acted as waiters and served the .students food and drinlcs. Both the fa:culty and the students performed a very diverse array of acts. The performances ranged. from singers and bands to comedians and even one girl who pl:ayed heT teeth. Obviously, the old Cabaret was very different from the one we have today. The Cabaret is now held in the Cbllege Center atrium and is very definitely not a private event. Beckey Thayer, the student in .charge of the Cabaret, attributes some lost interest to the new attnosphere. People are always coming· and going ir, the College Center, and it certainly isn't a quiet area for one to perform in . There is also a lack of diversity in the acts. Very few people have contacted Beckey in order to arrange a Cabaret and therefore, there wasn't a performance fot tf:le ftr$ t. six weeks of tltis term .. The Students Activities Committee has disc1,1ssed findiQg a room for the Cabaret but· it isn't considered a club and has no budget. Also, .every week there used to be reviews and previews in. T h e Concordiensb of the Cabarets. This gave students an idea of what the shows were · about and what they would see. Perhaps next year more srudertts will participate in the Cabaret and it wilt regain the prestige it once held. Sincerely, Jessica Sheinman, '92 responsibility for their own educatio11 and growth.\ Motivation is contagious and hopeful,ly this new ideology, if implemented, would c:reate this sense ()f• activism and student responsibility that is essential (but: is currently dormant) at Union Colle~e. NEXT WEEK: It appears that the upperclass students have found a comfortable niche, thus by starting with the new students, trends can be set, follow-ed, supported and implemented. We can aU look forwud to these positive new attitudes if and when the Freshman Center is established. What .. We've Seen Although it does not seem like ·it, another year has come to an end. And even more incredibly, we have experienced some events and changes that have shaped our collegiate careers. However subtly this bas happened, it has. Union met this year its first class sans SATs. Yet this class had the privilege to know the all too familiar construction that has decorated this campus for the past four years. This year also welcomed the first Soviet exchange students to campus as Delta Chi found their welcome had worn out. While Union students had the opportunity to have some say in the change of our country's presidential adnrinistration, we returned winter tenn to find we had had no say in the change of our social policy. The shocking news of one student•s suicide hit very close to home and warned us all, as does the frightful and rapid spread of AIDS to colleg~ campuses, that life, as immortal as it may seem to 11s now, is all too fragile. Uncertainty came to us in another form as we all felt the terror of the attacks that occurred in the fall Violence seemed to rear up as security had to deal with fights on campus and the increase of vandalism and the problem of false fire alanns. As measles hit Siena College nearly incapacitating their undefeated basketball team, Union sports saw it~ glory in the magic of the Field and Ice Hockey teams. But on the flip side, the Athletics Department felt partial defeat in the softball controvel'sy. A two hundred dollar rise in tuition at SUNY Albany incited a sit-in while a 2,000 dollar hike at Union sparked nothing. Pro Life and Pro Choice opinions were certainly expressed. Students took to the streets of Washington, and both Concordiensis and the Union Sentinel published articles on this issue that comes out of the past and into ot1r present and our future. The Red Bins came and went and so did the honor code. Next year we will know a class t!X]>eriencing the new General Education. Nex:t year Geltime will be in a permanent mode having passed its two-year trial test. Perhaps Delta Psi Delta will find a solid niche in this college community; officially recognized ,by the students as well as the Administration. Whatever the case this year has changed us and next year, however different it will be, will change us, t.oo. ©f DISTORDIENSIS Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the op1n1ons of the Editorial Board Don't Miss It! • • • < • ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMIITED TO THE CONCORDJENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00: P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDJNG WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDJENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPIED. - - ] To 11v re to ~f fil U1 nc S<J WI ad CG Stl it: w. Stl 11b cc 0 sc m in C< to fc Q fc re di te rn re w n

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 (!tllltfllrbtrnsis Founded at Union College 1877 ---- End Apathy Enter Activism Union students when questioned as to whether the major adversity found on college campuses is that of ignorance or apathy would most likely reply, \I don't know and I don't care.\ This campus attitude, however, may soon face some transformation. The current trend of apathy, passive involvement and lack of intellectual concerns may soon be replaced with· a scouring for knowledge and answers and learning for· learning's sake as well as an attitude that yes, WE CAN make a difference. Through the Freshman Year Committee's efforts these attitudes could soon become a reality at Union. The formation of a Freshman Center would introduce new Union students to a particular mode of thought. This Center would promote the integration of learning with socializing, spurn personal growth and intellectual exchange as well as build an \atmosphere of curiosity, exploration and openness.\ Their goal is . to \orient students towards a posture of ·activism and responsibility for their own education and growth.\ Motivation is contagious and hopefully this new ideology, if implemented, would create this sense of activism and student responsibility that is essential (but is currently dormant) at Union College. It appears that the upperclass students have found a i comfortable niche, thus by starting with the new students, trends can be set, followed, supported and implemented. We can all look forward to these positive new attitudes if and when the Freshman Center is established. What-- We've Seen Although it does not seem like it, another year has come to an end. And even more incredibly, we have experienced some events and changes that have shaped our collegiate careers. However subtly this has happened, it has. Union met this year its first class sans SA Ts. Yet this class had the privilege to know the all too familiar construction that has decorated this campus for the past four years. This year also welcomed the first Soviet exchange students to campus as Delta Chi found their welcome had worn out. While Union students had the opportunity to have some say in the change of our country's presidential administration, we returned winter term to find we had had no say in the change of our social policy. The shocking news of one student's suicide hit very close to home and warned us all, as does the frightful and rapid spread of AIDS to college campuses, that life, as immortal as it may seem to us now, is all too fragile. Uncertainty came to us in another form as we all felt the terror of the attacks that occurred in the fall. Violence seemed to rear up as security had to deal with fights on campus and the increase of vandalism and the problem of false fire alarms. As measles hit Siena College nearly incapacitating their undefeated basketball team, Union sports saw its glory in the magic of the Field and Ice Hockey teams. But on the flip side, the Athletics Department felt partial defeat in the softball controversy. A two hundred dollar rise in tuition at SUNY Albany incited a sit-in while a 2,000 dollar hike at Union sparked nothing. Pro Life and Pro Choice opinions were certainly expressed. Students took to the streets of Washington, and both Concordiensis and the Uni()n Sentinel published articles on this issue that comes out of the past and into our present and our future. The Red Bins came and went and so did the honor code. Next year we will know a class ttxperiencing the new General Education. Next year Geltime will be in a permanent mode having passed its two-year trial test. Perhaps Delta Psi Delta will find a solid niche in this college community, officially recognized by the students as well as the Administration. Whatever the case this year has changed us and next year, however different it will be, will change us, too. LETTERS College Center Drives Out Cabar~t To the Editors: The Cabaret gives students an opportunity to perform their talents while entertaining their . peers. Unfortunately the interest in this event has greatly diminished in the past few years. People once waited in J,~nes to attend a Cabaret but today, the Cabaret is very infrequent and not as well attended Much of the reason for the lost interest in the Cabaret can be attributed to the new college center. In the old Carnegie, the Cabaret was given a private room with a very relaxed atmosphere. It consisted of booths, carpeting, dim lighting, a piano, and it was similar to a coffeehouse. F acuity members acted as waiters and sexved the students tood and drinks. Both the faclllty and the students performed a very diverse array of acts. The performances ranged from singers and bands to comedians and even one girl who played her teeth. Obviously, the old Cabaret was very different from the one we have today. The Cabruet is now held in tbe College Center atrium and is very definitely not a private event. Beckey Thayer, the student in charge of the Cabaret, attributes some lost interest to the new atmosphere. People are always coming and going irt the College Center, and it certainly isn't a quiet area for one to perform in . Tllere is also a lack of diversity in the acts. Very few people have contacted Beckey in order to arrange a Cabaret and therefore, there wasn't a perforrn~nce for the first six weeks of this term. The Students Activities Committee has discussed finding a room for the Cab~et but it isn't consider.ed a club and has no budget. Als:o, every week there used to be reviews and previews in T II e C o n c o r d i e n s i s of the Cabarets. This gave st11dents an idea of what the sho\Vs were about and what they would see. Perhaps next year more students will participate in t:he Cabaret and it will regain the prestige it once held. S:incerely, Jessica Sheil)man, '92 NEXT WEEK: Th ®J 5f!h J.l !l7J [fjJ M ~U IP w !WO orgrm ~i©J [ffJ ©ff DISTORDIENSIS Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . op1n1ons of the Editorial Board Don't Miss It! ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOTBE ACCEPTED .. - - ] To \VI re< lO< of fir Ur no so wl ad co St\1 its wi stt \b co C< sc na im co to: fo Ql fo re1 di: n:

.CONCORIJJF;NSIS May 25, 1989 P'age 11 LETTERS Ethics of Union Administratjon Questioned Again Liddy's Critics: Missing the Point? To the Editors: The question fot the week is, \What happened to the red recycling ·bins which were located in both the :niail room of the College Center and the fir~t floor of Steinmetz?\ UnfortUnately this question has no answer but rather casts some doubt on the ethics which the Union College a.dministraton follows in conducting bu:siness with its students. The administraton prides itself on its abilit,y and willingness to assist the .student body in .promoting a \bigger and. better· U\. They continuously refer to Union College as a ''community of scholars;'' Please excuse my naivete, but I was under the impression that a community consists of people working together in an honest fashion for the benefit of the whole. Qaite to· my surprise, I soon found this to be a fallacy as the red bins SP AA instituted were discarded without notification. Toward the end of the winter term, a plan was organized by membe:rs of SPAA to begin a recycling progra.lll Gn campus which . several colleges nati~nwide are currently participating in as well. 11his was in response to the h~ated debate concerning the landfill i,s~ue which has recently been in the forefront of discussion in the State legislature. The . intel'ltions of the program were to educate the college pop~laton of the necessity of recycling as a viable alterntive, as well as to diminish the amount of unnecessary waste. Clearly, this would have benefitted Union College intell~(.:tually as well as monetarily, for there would itave been a slight Stipend for tbe ])aper collected. This money was to be used for a planned activity for the student body .. Although, according to <me . coUege administrator, SPAA went through the correct ch:mnels to the fledgling stages of its institution, eight weeks later the bins were removed withou:t informing SPAA of this decision. There were seve:ral reasons for this. HQwever, some ofthese rquiie some careful examination. It seems that they were found to be aesthetically unpleasing, not fitting in with the decor of the newly renovated College. Ce11ter. In other words, a· solution to a present environmental problem was barricaded because of physical appearances, Then, coincidentally, on the same day, the bins were deemed a (rre hazard and in violaton of the New York State fire codes. Does it not seem odd that it took ·a ·school administrator almost an entire term to decree that .the bins were too ugly and unsafe to remain in the College Center? Had he confronted-the members of SP AA at the time the initial plans were approved, the problem could have been resolved. I close this letter frustrated and ang:ry at the methods the Union College administraton uses when carrying on relations with its students. It is quite obvious that because of an inexusable lack of communication on the part of the administrators, a student run ·program was wrongly eliminated. If the administration wishes to maintain or increase its relationship with the students, they should follow a different course of action, one that proves its trust in the Union College student body. Robin Isserles '90 To the Editors: In last week's edition of Concordiensis (May 18, 1989), there appeared to be a ·considerable amount of unrest in regard to the Parents:' · · Weekend speaker, G. Gordon Liddy. While Mr. Liddy must certainly not be as morally ups tanding as his critics, those who judge him are perhaps missing the point. Mr. Liddy did not come to Union to justify his actions at any point in his career. He spoke about surviving versus prevailing and sent home the message with the type of vigor which almost all in attendance could appreciate. But I guess you had to have an open enough mind to attend to realize this. In fact, it was not antil the post~.speech question and answer session that Liddy became questi<>nably opinionated, which he had the right to be, given the nature of the questions. Those who went to the Chapel learned a great cleal on May 12th. For that, a standing ovation was in the highest order. With wannest regards. _Carl R. Friedrich, Jr. '91 ''DEMYSTIFYING THE MACHINE''. Troy, New York-- The Russell Sage College Center for Women's Education will offer an introductory workshop in computer literacy Saturday, June 10. \Demystifying the Machine\ will run from 10:()0 am to 4:00 pm in the College's Computer Center on First Street on the Russell Sage College Troy Campus. The workshop will be led by Kristi Anderson, assistant professor of English at Russell Sage. , The winner of the STUDENT ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Historical Trivia Contest was Bruce Ikelheimer '91. ·He is the recipien..t of a $50· gift certificate to the Cra~be·rry ·Bog. The registration deadline is Friday, June 2. The objective of the workshop is to help participants overcome anxieties about using computers. \Computers are a science, and many women have the belief that the sciences are for men only,\ said Anderson. \Computers are information tools. Acquiring knowledge of how to use them is .something women will be able to use in their lives.\ The topics to be covered include: the math myth, understanding computer jargon, and practical applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, and databases. - The answers to tbe Trivia Contest were: 1. a stamp holder 2. the artifact was from b.) the freshman banner for the dass of 1903 ' 3. d.) Washburn Hall · 4. c.) Frank Bailey has a bUilding, an award, and an athletic field named in his honor 5. d..) Captain Jack's daughter drew the sketch of Jackson's Garden To register or for more information, con tact the Center for Women's Education, Russell Sage College, at 270-2306. 6. a.) Charles Proteus Steinmetz's personal notes 7. c.) EUpbilet Nott used the stamp holder Changes in the exam. ·schedule: SPN • 121 cH·M- 010 CHM -012 MTH -014 -01 Moved to SSCI 012 ·02 ·01 ·02 BUTR 203 ·03 -01 •02 BAIL 207 -01 SSCI 104 -03 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ELSE•s EXPENSE Yes, Juniors, even if you missed last Tuesday's meeting, it is not too late to express interest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP. If you win, the Thomas J. Watson Foundation pays you $14,000.00 to GO ANYWHERE and DO ANYTHING. for the year after you graduate. And it's not hard to apply-· just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of reference, due at the beginning of Fall term. YOUR. ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years; more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON, that is better than one in twenty. (Compare thatto the odds in the New York State lottery!) If you have any interest at all in letting someone else pay for a YEAR OF TRAVEL, please bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Klein in the Economics Department {SS 109). A simple phone call will do (x6056}, or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No salespe.rson will call. • II II ..... C!lllllll Ill al) Ill II •11 1111.1 I .. II I a I a II li,l \\lila I I G II II 11.11 I ll._l I I II 1 • II II 1 I Ill IIIII I I 1 II II 1 Ill 1 Ill I Ill •• II II II 111111 I I 1 I I II II •tiS II tl I 1 I YES t WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME TO TRAVEL ANYWHERE AND DO ANYTHING FOR A YEAR NAME:. ______ ~_BOX#-:---------~- . GRADUATION YEAR: MAJOR(S) _____ ~~- (Clip and return to D. Klein, Economics Department, Campus.)

CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 Page 11 LETTERS Ethics of Union Administration Questioned Again Liddy's Critics: Missing the Point? To the Editors: The question for the week is, \What happened to the red recycling bins which were located in both the maH room of the College Center and the first floor of Steinmetz?\ Unfortunately this question has no answer but rather casts some doubt on the ethics which the Union College administraton follows in condu.cting business with its students. The administraton prides itself on its ability and willingness to assist the student body in promoting a \bigger and better U\. They continuously refer to Union College as a \community of scholars.\ Please excuse my naivete, but I was under the impression that a community consists of people working together in an honest fashion for the benefit of the whole. Quite to my surprise, I soon found this to be a fallacy as the red bins SP AA instituted were discarded without notification. Toward the end of the winter term, a plan was organized by members of SP AA to begin a recycling program on campus which several colleges nationwide are currently participating in as well. This was in response to the heated debate concerning the landfill issue which has recently been in the forefmnt of discussion in the State legis,lature. The intentions of the program were to educate the college populaton of dle necessity of recycling as a viable altemti.ve, as well as to diminish the amount of ttnnecessary waste. Clearly, tilis would have benefitted Union College intellectually as well as monetarily, for there would i1ave been a sl·igbt stipend for tile paper collected. This money was to be used for a pi anned activity fer the student body. Although, according to one college administrator, SP AA went through the correct channels to the fledgling stages of its institution, eight weeks later the bins were removed without informing SPAA of this decision. There were several reasons for this. However, some of these rquire some careful ex.amination. [t seems that they were found to be aesthetically tmpleasing, not fi~ting in with. the decor of the newly renovated College Center. In other words, a solution to a present environmental problem was barricaded because of physical appearances. Then, coincidentally, on the same day, the bins were deemed a fire hazard and in violaton of the New York State fire codes. Does it not seem odd that it took a school administrator almost an entire term to decree that the bins were too ugly and I!Bsafe to remain in the College Center? Had he confronted the members of SP AA at the time the initial plans were approved, the problem could have been resolved. I close this letter frustrated and angry at the methods the Union College administtaton uses when carrying on relations with its students. It is quite obvious that because of an inexusable lack of communication on the part of the administrators, a studeBt run program was wrongly eliminated. If the administration wishes to maintain or increase its relationship with the students, they should follow a different course of action, one that proves its trust in the Union College student body. Robin Isserles '90 To the Editors: In last week's edition of Concordiensis (May 18, 1989), there appeared to be a considerable amount of unrest in regard to the Parents' Weekend speaker, G. Gordon Liddy. While Mr. Licldy must certainly not be as morally upstanding as his critics, those who judge him are perhaps missing the point. Mr. Liddy did not come to Union to justify his actions at any point in his career. He spoke about surviving versus prevailing and sent home the message with the type of vigor which aimost all in attendance could appreciate. But I guess yoa had to have an open enough mind to attend to reaLize tlilis. In fact, it was not until the post-speech question and answer session that Liddy became questionably opinionated, which he had the right to be, given the nature of the questions. Those wbo went to the Chapel learned a great deal on May 12th. F<Jr that, a standing ovation was in the highest order. With wannest regards, Carl R. Friedrich, Jr. '91 ''DEMYSTIFYING THE MACHINE\ Troy, New York-- The Russell Sage College Center for Women's Education will offer an introductory workshop in computer literacy Saturday, June 10. \Demystifying the Machine\ will run from 10:00 am to 4:00 pm in the College's Computer Center on First Street on the Russell Sage College Troy Campus. The workshop will be led by Kristi Anderson, assistant professor of English at Russell Sage. The winner of the STUDENT ALUMNI ASSOCIATION Historical Trivia Contest was Bruce Ikelheimer '91. The registration deadline is Friday, June 2. The objective of the workshop is to help participants overcome anxieties about using computers. \Computers are a science, and many women have the belief that the sciences are for men only,\ said Anderson. \Computers are information tools. Acquiring knowledge of how to use them is something women will be able to use in their lives.\ The topics to be covered include: the math myth, understanding computer jargon, and practical applications such as word processing, spreadsheets, and databases. He is the recipient of a $50 gift certificate to the Cranber.ry Bog. The answers to the Trivia Contest were: 1. a stamp holder 2. the artifact was from b.) the freshman banner for the class of 1903 3. d.) Washburn Hail 4. c.) Frank Bailey has a building, an award, and an athletic field named in his honor 5. d.) Captain Jack's daughter drew the sketch of Jackson's Garden To register or for more information, contact the Center for Women's Education, Russell Sage College, at 270-2306. 6. a.) Charles Proteus Steinmetz's personal notes 7. c.) Eliphilet Nott used the stamp holder Changes in the exam schedule: SPN - 121 -01 Moved to SSCI 012 -02 CHM - 010 -01 -02 BUTR 203 -03 CHM -012 -01 -02 BAIL 207 MTH -014 -01 SSCI 104 -03 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ELSE'S EXPENSE Yes, Juniors, even if you missed last Tuesday\s meeting, it is not too late to express interest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP. If you win, the Thomas J. Watson Foundation pays you $14,000.00 to GO ANYWHERE and DO ANYTHING for the year after you graduate. And it's not hard to apply- just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of reference, due at the beginning of Fall term. YOUR ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years, more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON, that is better than one in twenty. (Compare that to the odds in the New York State lottery!) If you have any interest at all in letting someone else pay for a YEAR OF TRAVEL, please bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Klein in the Economics Department (SS 1 09). A simple phone call will do (x6056), or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No salesperson will call. I I 111111!1 11111111111111111111111111111111111111 II Oil 1111111111111111111111111111111111111 II Ill II 111-011111 II Ill Ill 11111111!1 Ill 10 ••• II II II II 1!1111 10 II IIIII IIIII II till 01 I YES 1 WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME 10 TRAVEL ANYWHERE AND DO ANYTHING FOR A YEAR NAME:, ________ BOX# _________ _ GRADUATION YEAR: MAJOR(S) _______ _ (Clip and return to D. Klein, Economics Department, Campus.)

l .. .·' Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS May 25, 1989 '¥WMfen:. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT June 19 - JacKson Brown .J:Y-i':; 2C · s;:eviEJ Hav Vauohn B~ !)ouoie .t ~·· \T r'~.l ~ 1 :,:1 ;' (~ fCd·, _J-~ i! 1 \(! ;.~~ (1 ?:~ ~-! ~1 r1 lz ',- ·.,.. ~._., • ~.,.-, ~ • .--~: ,; d' · r\':.- ,l,.r>. .. ' 1\i \_iu;· .. / ~:. -~~ - 1'·::-~:~,'·';:~():-i~ L~·:':·-:· ~--· ~0S!!,, l_::_~;~~ -;~· -- ~:1_ 1 ;;-:;\C: :~~··.1-C)i_;-~-~~~·<:: Heari:brE~akers Tic~{et55 g© on ~a~le June 10 .,. iil ~ I w a.ma Q ~ jp.m. Cmll SPAC tao){ Office for more info! ·I ~--it-)., ''\ < \' ', f ' ', ,' J. · • • ' , 1 · .. , ' 1-.,: l- H ~-' ·•!_~';l.._v__;, ~· ;h.,.li .~.-1-·H,___~..J. ·.~d .. ~~ \'.,,J.,. V., i\.Jl·i·~ .. ')\)~J r~~;l 1 • lhG.~i~ '·ua ~. - ' ... ' , • . ' . ,-1 . . n J (j 1 J u i •- L t ~ .._ ~ \~ :., ~ i.j y ~J u t \llllnJ,·i~.\ \', i1i1 this, you <rrt _'i\':>::iLi- .. ~-- .. ;:£ tn\~t.nr...\' 1·\'/ U~L~ o~.>unh~ <l ... - l >..:1 Li1i::: cot.ui.Lry ~ince tl1ey a1e uni'.Hnili:J.r with this ;.;\ p:..::-.\iun. At the !enure on Cultural Av.. ar;;;ness la.st Thusday evening, Sandra Padilla of the NYS Office of Mental Health used this as an example to explain that language is often the only thing that binds us together. This may seem humorous at a glance, but Ms. Padilla has seen many similar circumstances with her position as Deputy to the Commissioner for Affirmative Actions. Ms. Padilla stressed the need for being aware of differences in levels of c·ommunication among diverse cultures. Consider the simple differences in oculistics, the use of the eyes. While Americans are taught from an early age to make eye contact, especially The following is a list of the winning ticket numbers for the SIGMA PHI/UNITED WAY SIG·SAW RAFFLE DINNER FOR 2 AT CORNELL'S CAR WASH FROM RAINBOW CAR WASH HAIRCUT FROM JOE SUPERIOR BREAKFAST FOR 2 AT PETER PAUSE $10 GIFT CERTIFICATE FROM UP YOUR ALLEY $5 GIFT CERTIF/CATEFROM THE OPEN DOOR FREE SUB FROM MOHAWK DELl 2 CHEESE PIZZA'S FROM HOMESTYLE'S CASE OF COKE FROM UNION BEVERAGE FREE GAMES AT BOULEVARD BOWL $5 GIFT CERTIFICATE TO EARTHLY DELIGHTS FREE CONE FROM BEN & JERRY'S PRIZES CA:N BE PICKED UP AT SIGMA PHI. CALL 386-4400 FOR INFORMATION. '90 .. Show Your Class Spirit! 828161 8'28084 828197 828012 828129 828198 828186 82804.6 828075 828096 828216, 828169 828003, 828'114, 828144, 828209, 828096 Enter the '90 Senior Gift Drive T-Shirt Contest!- Be the artist of YOUR class T-Shirt - WIN $50 Cash! Deadline: Friday, ·June 2 Call x6175 for details - - c ltur v.h .. :ii ·.n,•;'l·irl·\ lJ .,.tUl't· · •· 4 ·~~-'' 'Q l (tU :':r, !!:dtf-~tn ~-Hh.i ~c\iiTibt~.an '..'hilJ~· .. ·n .. ,, • l I··!)' ;,., ']('' I ),.f, '• '() d.d...: (\l,_iol:..; I l·-· t !!. ~~-\-~!\ ,i.L_ ~l<it:L:..:~ <:~.·~'·, ·,_·,;n·-.td,..-·!\>~J 1}_i-. c.. tf.JL Gi'- -~::n I h ;\, n•-._·!·i~,._·~.:.r~ :--~· ;~f:(·.~i:--- flt?~, ll(· I ·• ' t l ·' ., :H.·~_-P:·,(.C ( 1t h ii\;~~ ~·/rh.:n Ln·~) ~~u, ~ . . . • ~. . . . . . I l1_~ 1t;vL. i~h..~ L __ ;_~cr·~~r \);· fi~_c ... L1J~~; . ' \H ld.; ;;.;y.z~,. ;\ ·~oil'oer cornrnon culturol diiJerence i.n commuilic<:1tion e~ ists in body 1:;-,nguag:~. ';Vhi!e r'\mt::Lican:-. tend to b~ re!'erved and untouching, Hispilnks are often son1ewhat tactile and physically expressive. If such differences are not understood, misjudgments can arise, and people can be unintentionally offended. Differences in cultural beliefs can similarly cause misconceptions.. A belief in spirits may be a part of a person's life-long religion, but if· (s)he moves to another country in which beliefs differ, that person can easily be mistaken as abnormal, or even insane. Furthermore, differences in cultural practices can be aggravating, especially if you do not realize .where the other person is coming from. For instance, Ms. Padilla explained that Latins ate . She's Out Of Control Pet Sematery Listen ToMe Major League Indiana Jones & The Last·Crusade pJlydH011!4tl.i:.; i£1 \.h~i.t Lh.;y do 110t fu.nr:.linc~ tu u1·dt:r ~,.t .:.:ro'\~- J. ,.,_{ • • , .. ) · · \·· Tl ;,. -··-\'~ )' ~-· \ ~.- 1·.- .-, ~ v~ i ... · .... Jty ~· ...... { L· ~ \l.'t... t.~h._Lr •.1~.~,luH f(h- 1:fcr!:~. t;J '.\'.Jil ur1 {~lur~ tl1Jn . . .. . l~{i\..: pcr:,~fi i.Ji. ~:. ti.l!~(· iH L.~~U!'i \\ t~·! \_;; .. ~ t.. ~~ J.nd !.'fl~:(~J' r:f t~~;~ ·. :<t ... .-:.:\1 i .... Jui·\u.'l.:,...~i 2 un ~h-..:: o{J-i~-~- t:~~·JC:, ~ ;_ i~:- r:1~.l·~11nJ.ry ~- - - 'l ' - '. _· toE 1.:::-·u.::~H .. LU ·:...~_ucu~ u9 ) ~n(t r.:.tJ!t~fi~ in or in'''·'!'!)ptil1g ure ''\()r·j· .! (11 ; .• ,;•r·c·>;)'t':Jl-;)''' d - 11..-~1 .. ) .U~..-.-la'v~ _,L \..~ Thus, cultur;.ll diJferences e:ds1. at all level!<, from religion w gasrronomy, ;md it is important to be aware of these differences so as to avoid the an too often misunderstandings that arise from mere cultural differences. Most importantly, it is language that rea11y ties people · togethel', and for that matter, also pulls us apart. This ·is evident in the \English Only\ proposal, which says that only English should be taught in schools. If this proposal is accepted as a rule, then there would be no need for people to learn other laqguages, and in turn~ peopie would be ignorant of other cultures. The \English Plus\ proposition suggests that English plus another language should' be taught ih schools. After all, kno~ing two Continued Qn page 13 How I Got Into College See No Evil Hear No Evil Field of Dreams Pet Sematery Indiana Jones & · The Last Crusade Call Theaters for Show Ti:ID.es. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION · 1400 16th Street NW; INashington; DC 20036·2266 • T@n!igh~ CeU~Ibrtl~~~ PHOTO CLUB MEETING f!)J.-Cf!JJiil$ Tlh!itd /:l(fi}IfiffiJJ~U Ty~--f!Jo~ C~ibllm~l *MANDATORY* for all. Members 7:30 Tonight CC ~Room 203 W®Q!Hr ®fiil:~rr~ ~® W©Ollf 1!~©-fk®il ~® @ [lijj)@'liO®W ©ff®\\iVJ ©~ [f@[!JJ®~®@!U ii@l0®Uilll®.~ Supp@rt/ Y@f!Jf f®UU@W stliJJd~nt m~mfb~f~ liffl th~or Clhfllriity . C~lb\-te~ I riD[§ If~[§ rnl:~ g ~ tJ~Q@@ fP~ m~ ~ flJ .. Chill

{ ' Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS May ZS, 1989 ' i ' r u I .. .:..., __ -.:,.,. __ . ···-\ _·:.._:~;_-\ ·_·.:..-\ ----· -· _\_ .. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT \ \ THIS SUM AT M0{~- ~g ~\ ~'r: \\' l .1 /.-~., .\ n '·~ -~ LJ \..1 ~- June 19 - Jach.son Brown ,J!.Hle ?0 - Stevie Hay Vaughn <:<;{ 0Qubie TrcHJt:) 1 r::' ' G!\8'.-: J-\llr:•an 82nrl ! : ;r· ,:') ? {·. ··· C' C>· :\:\ (' ;., J· '? rh I - ,t\ !'I q () 1\ 1 \'!: .. , f'' ~-'\·! •',.J ·--- 1 '·~'·,- ._,,,,_J, ~A '\..-•• 'J ; t,; ; 0 ·'.;_:-;_;•¥,<' ., /\LJC!. ~; -:-:~. - ;:_: ·:. ~.::;:~ s·i: (C; (\ 1 ; _.... ~~ t:. ~ , · 1 · r:·t ~ r 1 c:; r-~; :··~ ; ~ ,_ :) . , ..._. - c~ .i • - ._ . ·' ~ iJ- ., .. •)t-. ('\\C ,, -~ i,...,_,....,t ,~, l r~ .... .,~.; ..... C:.'l' .;,......_t .• i':\q nU:tl· ;;;.lJ · <..J _J.i 1 f!Ud;ey , CU;.;;; w i H .... r\.cl \ .,. 1 ,---, , '~ ! ,.f ,. r f'IUQ. ;~ l - i-f.:-)i8!. l- G\Ui, ~_.,. iV>a;y l\u~i 2 7 - Tom F'BUV & I he Heartbreal-\(-}f'S lickets g«» @n ~at~e June 10 10 a.m. = 5 p.m. Cali SPAC Box Office for more info! I ll ii , .~1r;~~~;,;-n~ ) o.LlJ~l.Jf ~n ~ ful\~·!gn ,, - ~ . ··\ ~- .. ~- ~ .. d'-:·L) ~£ \'. _iJh.;H )\~U d'j HVl \-\ ~L.J -,·-.~~\.a.:;;, )'UtA .f;;pl) tk.At..:~~ :;~cu ~Ll.i ~b~:~.tu .... .;:f;_i~.,..~ rx1 yvut ~,tuHra~.:.h. W nh this, }!OU axe '-'\~''Sidcred insane h•1 ~1c !)Coote , ,.. t\ t of this coumry since they are unfamiliar with this e'<.pn:s:>\lon. A.t the lecture on Cultural Awareness Ja.st Thusday evening. Sandra Padilla of ~he NYS Office of Mental Health used this as an example to ex.plain that language is often the only thing that binds us together. This may seem humoroU:s at a glancel but Ms. PadiUa has seen many similar circumstances with her position as Deputy to the Commissioner for Affirmative Actions. Ms. Padilla stressed the need for being aware of ·differences in levels .of communication among diverse cultures. Consider the simple differences · in ocul:istics, the u.se of the eyes. While Americans are taught from an early age to make eye contact, especially The to/lowing is a list of the winning ticket numbers tor the SIGMA PHJIUNITED WAY SIG·SAW .RAFFLE DiNNER FOR 2 AT CORNELL'S CAR WASH FROM RAINBOW CAR WASH HAIRCUt FROM JOE SUPERIOR BREAKFAST FOR 2 AT PETER PAUS£ $10 GIFT CERTIFICATE FROM UP YOUR ALLEY $5 GIFT CERTIFJCATEFROM THE OPEN DOOR FREE SUB FROM MOHAWK DELl . 2 CHEESE PIZZA'S FROM HOME STYLE'S CASE OF COKE FROM UNION BEVERAGE FREE GAMES A f BOULEVARD BOWL - $5 GIFT CERTIFJCATE TO EARTHLY DELIGHTS FREE CONE FROM BEN & JERRY'S PRIZES Ci\N BE PICKED UP AT SIGMA PHI. CALL 386-4400 FOR. INFORMAtiON. . . ' - ' ' . '90 - Show Your Class Spirit! 828161 8~28084 828197 828012 828129 828198 828186 828046 .828075 8.28096 82821'6, 828169 828003, 828114, 828144, 8282{)g, 828096 Enter the '90 Senior Gift Drive T-Shirt Contestr Be the artist of YOUR class T-S·hitt - WIN $50 Cash! Deadline: Friday, ·June 2 Call x6175 for details .. · CUltural lectur lt.lh:n :~p~aling to ad.ulb, Tbiti.Jn ;md Carribean drikl:•..:n arc ; :tug h t in not loc}k. [ n u \\.-t,~h,' r,, ...... , h-.c··~- 1 :~·~·· ~:~ ~ .... d u l, ' '\ •-' ~ .J ~. i,_ll___ a. .• ~'... ,! \, 1 .• • 1 • _\!!i-' r. t \\\'\' .. ~-( ~:~· .. ;t(J:2r\..' .-J i_ .. \_,.<n,~~P~\.~inJ. # e_,~,, ~·r! t.!~ ~-··~ \ ~-· :H i_Ji -: h ~! d' L_k~: t :·:. :\ t'd~ . .\~(i.\.~.~.i :; '.·~·-:.-~ }.1fJC.\~.~·; -n.·~' 1- .... \\ . •:[!_{\..._; ! __ • _ __... ... ,~ ~s···-~ · f' f'·ir., ,, h--.n tJ~,_-,,. r,.d-~ ~~'--·~I-.~\·. • .... J. ~~~ ~-};•\.-· c·~v_.; .~·_;. ~ . •,, j,.<.li '·-\CP ,. l'T \. ,.,.; '·' .--~..; .. , l1..-.1 . ._j \''\ 1 )IJ\, trl~' ia lh..: ..::y .. ::.. . A notl,1e1· comraon cui1ura! difference in comrm.mica~Jor; .exists in body language. YNhnle Americans tend to be ress::n•.;!d and untourhing, Hispanics are oft~n somewhat tactile and physkaHy expressive. If s.uch differences are not understood, misjudgments can arise, and people can be unintentionally offended, Differences in cultural beliefs can similarly cause misconceptions. A belief in spirits may be a part <>f a person's 1ife-iong religion, but if· (s)he moves to an<Jther country in which beliefs differ, that person can easily be mistaken as abnormal, or even insane. Furthermore, differenc~s in cultural pract:ic.es ~an be aggravati~g,, especi:jl)y if you do not realt;le where the othet person is coming from. For instance, Ms. Padilla explained that Latins are Rescuers . She's Out Of Control Pet Sematery Listen To~ Me Major League Indiana Jones & The Last·Crnsade poly-chro1n<.~tf . ..: i:n u1;H they do n\Jt forrn line;:. ;.0 ord~r a t:fO·'l:.(l of pcup!~. lt i'S- not urJ~\Jn·un·au l ~·-·· l~! ~.-'1 \. ~f') 'd .... ~;- y'l''' .-.~ ,-_. tl··\1'' \.../!' ~~l.:·'-' .t~ ·' '···h\. \:~~ .~~~>~1\,. \\.!~4j\ (;(h .. ' p~i··~c.;n ~,~ ;l_ urr~---~· id Lt-Ul~l {·v··•frtt ;,_'-..:. f1! ;; :·· 1 ~~ ;tfld ttl~P1'' :~;I '·n:~ ··~.~-:._·:· .. ·, ~; c~' ~u~·~t:l.;;~;, · ·~)~! th(' ···~1h ··;· \.-Ti.-~ ;! :\. ·~·lr'.·;· .. -!:·-h·\ . ........ '-'c .. \.. .. [,_.\A.,,.·- 1.. '-'··-•li.Jl ku.! rn·; '\''';•l\ c·(,J ''•.'i''d•'. ·,;n'' '\l\l .\..J'.t .\\\~~-'{'-... \':· \\!: .. vT '\!' .... _-~· } p- ... . . ~ ~ CI:Htulg Ar\l .._,. Hw~:rcupung ·a.to:: socially .iDJ.cccpt:Jh!e. Thus, . cuhur4l differences exist at aH levds, from religion to gastronomy, and it is important to be aware of th~se differences so as ~o avoid the all · too often misund~rstandings that arise from mere cu~ltura1 differences. Most hnportantly, it is language that really ties people · together. and for that matter, also pulls us apart. This -is evident in the 1 'English Only\ proposal, which says that only English should be taught in schools. If this propo.sal is accept~d as a rule; then there would be no need for people to learn other languages, and in :turn, pe<)pie wo.uld be ignorant of ·Other cultures. The ''English Plus\ proposition suggests that English plus anoQler language should· be taught m schools. After aU, kno~ing two Connn-..ed Qn page. 13 How I Got Into College See No EVil ·HearN o Evil ·Field of Dreams Pet Sernat.ery ·· . . ' Indl.ana Jones & .·The Last Crusade· · Call Theau...S for Show Tirites. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY • T@nlgf!iJt CfJU~brafls~ ., PHOTO CLUB· MEETING fD ... Chfilj~ TlhitNJJ Arutn(JJJflQ Tye .. I!JI~ Cab~mtl *MAN·DATORY* for al·l· Members 7:30 Tonight CC Room 203 r.t @I!Jllr ®-lillfif1it ~® W®M [f ~D©U'!®fr. ii® &I miD®fr'O@w ©11®\Ym ®g mJilT!!l~D ®@U U@la~[fi)fl® Y . . Swpp@tf! f@(fj}tr f(#JQ/@W ~tudtJnt. memfbrets Ira g(he.lr C/h11.tiUy . OalbaNtl · ®~ tr~l§rm~g, Y · ftJ:O(f)) p<Jm~ ·~ 1/))4 Cllilfl'l

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. I. 10. 11. 12. 13. 14. 15 .• HI. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21-. 22. 23. 24. 25 .• 2~. 27. 2f. 29. 3\0. CONCORDlENSIS May 25, 1989 Page 13 . . ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Cultural Lecture Continued fromn: page 12 languages makes you all the more cultllred and thus richer. But where do the real changes begin? Well, according to Ms. Padilla, we all can be \catalysts for change''. But the changes must not only occur at the individual level, but also in every aspect .of the social services. It is especially necessary at the educational level in order to better communication between teachers, students, and parents, since school is, for many, a first experience in dealing with society. In any recruitment, people must 11nderstand where the other people are coming from in order to fairly integrate the community. Ms. .Padilla gave this interesting lecture on cultural awareness last Thursday evening at the College Center thanks to the Mass Society, , and Ralph. Hernandez (a member of Mass), who invited the guest speaker. C-Step and AOP also helped in contributing to the sponsorship of Ms. Padilla. I was disturbed by the lack of concern of the student body, which was apparant in the extremely small number of students who attended. How can we expect to ch311ge, or even begin to get rid of our ignorance of different cultures if we don't show interest or initiative? The Union College Chapter of Amnesty International weekly meetings - Tuesday @ 7:00 pm RM 409 - College Center Everyone is Welcome! \It is better to light a candle than to curse the darkness\ CAM·P UNION BANDS: N.RBQ, TOM TOM CLUB, & Reggae Music by Wilson Blue & The Blue Roots Oil WEST BEACH Saturday 27 12-6 pm &ooii®oo ©®UUr3[f]@ ~jp@®)Jscg~ Jlf®[ffl[!WJ.. Presents RICH HALL Comedian ©@.fiUf!J]) Wloou®rru ~~QQ Jl'ii®4J!} ~7/ ~g®@ J])o@o Jl'Jl®[ii][!®rrftCfflU ©fru@J}J®U THE WRUC TOP 89.7 ACTS FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR .. ''Close yqur eyes, here we go, we'r.e playin' at the Talent Show' -The Replacements -~ LABEL -MIT LABEL AQI LABEL The Replacements Sire 31. Camoflage Atlantic 61. Robyn Hitchcock A&M U2 Island 32. Velvet Elvis Enigma &2. The Pixies YAD/Eiektra Elvig Costello Warner Bi'llis. 33. Siouxsie and the ~nshees Geffen n. House of Freaks Rhino Lloyd Cole & The Commotions CapitOl 34. Violent Femmes Slash &4. Tom Tom Club Sire R.E.M. Wamer Bros. 35. Dead Milkmen Enigma &5. Game Theory Restless The Cure Elektra 36. Let's Actlve LR.S. &6. The Vandals Restless XTC Geffen 37. TheRamones Sire &7. Fishbone Columbia The Primitives RCA 38. B.A. D. Columbia 68. Tom Waits Island Lou Reed Sire 39. Edie Brickell & New Bohemians Geffen &9. Couteau Twins Capitol Indigo Girls Epic 40 .. Camper Van Beethoven Virgin 70 . Bob Mould Virgin BillyBif.lgg . Elektra 41. Concrete Blonde I.R.S. 71. Shreikback Geffen The Sugarcubes Elektra 42 •. The Feelles A&M 72. Blue Clocks Green Pre Post Da 1(),000 Maniacs Elektra 43. Sonic Youth Blast First 73. Marc Almond Capitol Tile AI~ I.R.S. 44 .. The Pouges Island 74. Love Tractor DB The Cult Beggar's banquet 45. ·Dingo Boingo MCA 75. Christmas I.R.S. The P(oclalnters Chrysali$ 46. Big Cc.iuntty Polyg(am 76. Depeche Mode Sire They Might. Be Giants Bar None 47. New~r Quest 77. The Smiths Sire Miracle Legion Rough Trade 48. Flighi of Mavis Record Cellar 78. Dreams So Real Arista &reaming Tribesmen Rykodisc 49. The Popes Upon this rock 79. Joe Jackson A&M Throwing Muses Sire 50. Cowboy Junkies RLA eo. Love & Rockets Beggaar's Banquet · Guadalcanal Diary Elektra 51. The Waterboys Chrysalis 111. The Fall Beggar's Banquet Dri\'in' and Cryin' Island 52. The Connells TVT 112. The Sidewinders Mammouth Married to the Mob Reprise 53. The Buck Pets Island 113. Mama- X Wangan . (soundtrack) 54. Balancing Act Island .84. The The Epic Psyoh.Fuus Columbia 55. Scruffy the Cat Relativity 85. Bruce Cockburn Gold Caste Fine Young Cannibals I.R.S. 5ti. Dinosaur Jr. SST 66. Enya Geffen FIREHOSE SST 57. Simple Minds A&M 81. Stay Awake A&M Morrissey Sire 58. J.heSaints TVT 88. That Petrol Emotion Virgin The GOdfathers EpiC 59. A House Sire - Reprise 89. Public Image Ltd. Vitgin WetWetWet · Uni 60 .• The Wishniaks Blood Money 89.7 Cindy Lee Berry hill Rhino Julian Cope ·Island Happy Throngs Take this joy wherever you go. Thank you.

1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. a. •• 10. H. 12. 13. 14. 15 •. 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. u. 23. 24. 25. 2$. 27. 28. 29. a·o. . C'(.)NCORJ)ll!.NSIS May 25, 1989 Page 13 ART'S & ENTERTAINMENT Cultural ,Lecture Continued fromn page 12 languages makes you all the more cultured and thus richer. But where do the real changes begin? Well, according to Ms. Padilla~ we all can be \~atalysts for change''. B'ut the changes must not only occur fit tbe lndividuallevel, but also in every aspect of the social services. it is especially necessary at the educational level in. m;der to better commu·.nication between I teachers, students~ and parents, .since s.chool is, for many, a first experience in dealing with society. In any recruitmert~ people must understand where the other people are coming from in order to .fairly integrate the community. Ms. Padilla .gave this interesting lecture on cultural awareness last Thursday evening at the College Center thanks · to the Mass Socie~y. and Ralph Hernandez (a member of Mass), who invited the guest speaker, C-Step and AOP also helped in contributing to the sponsorship of Ms. Padilla. I was disturbed by the lac~ of concern of tile stuc::lent body, wbjch was appar~t in the extremely small number of students who attended. How can we expect to change. or even begin to get rid of our ignorance ()f diff~rent · cultures if we don't show interest ar initiative? The Union Collc;ge Chapter of Amnesty International weekly meetings - Tuesday @ 7:00 pm RM 409 .. CoUe~e Center Everyone is Welcome! \It ls better to light a candle than to curse the darkness\ CAMPUNlON BAN:DS: NRBQ, TOM TOM CLUB, & .: Reggae Music. .by . Wilson Blue& The Blue Roots Oil WE:ST BEACH Saturday· 27 · 12-6 pm l!Jfuuf!®oo. ©®UU~@Y~ ~)]XB@Jk&~ W®ffVJJJJJJ Presents RICH HALL Comedian ©cmJJililJP W!Ui!fl®rru. ~lJoQ JNl®zyJ ~7/ ftJg®@ JfJ~f111!o JJ:il®filli!®rrft@U . ©ll!@[f)@U JliU?JB· ~fi'N~ ~·~ THE WRUC. TOP 89.7 ACTS FOR THE SCHOOL YEAR \Close yqur eyes, here we go, we're playin' at the Talent Show' -The Replacemen.1s The Replacements Sire lJ2 Island Elvis- Costello Warner Bros. lloyd Cole & The Commotions CapitOl R.E;M. Watnar Bros. The Cure Eleklra XTC Gef@n The Primitives · RCA Lou Reed Sire Indigo GirlS · Epic Billy Bragg . ~leklra The Sugarcubes Elekll\a 10,000: Man!~ Eleklrct The Alarm 'I.R.S. The Cult · Beggar's banquet The Proctailr.tlrs Chrysali$ they Migbt 138· Giants Bar None . Miracle Legion Rough 1rade ScreamlnO Tribesmen Rykodisc Throwing M!.!ses Sire · Guadalcanal OiarY Elektr.a brtvin' and Oryln' Island Married to the Mob Reprise (soundtrack) Psyeh.Fuus Fine Youttg cannibals FIREHOSE Morrl~ The GOdfathers WetWetWet Julian Cope Columbia I.R.S. SSi Sire Epic- I Unl 'Island 31. 32. 33. 34. $5. 36. 37. 38. 39. 40. 41 .. 42.' 43. 44. 45. 46. 47. 4$. 49. '0- 51.. 52. $.3. 54'. 55. &.&. 5'7 ~ 58 •. 50. &0. LAEJ:EL LABEL Camoflage Atlat~tic 0 61 • Robyn Hitchcock A & M V&lvetEivi$ . Ehlgma 62. The Pixies YAD/Eiektra Siouxsle and the Banshees Geffen 63. Hoose of Freaks Rhino VIolent Femmes Slash 64. Tom 'tom Club Sire Dead Milkmen Enigma 65. Game Theory Restless Let's Active I.R:S. 66.. The Vandals Restless The Ramones Sire 6 7. Fishl:>one Columbia B.A.O. <::Piumbia 68. Tom Waits Island Edie Brick&JI & New Bohemians Geffen 69. Couteau Twins Capitol Camper Van Beethoven Vi~in 70. Bob Mould Virgin Concrete Blonde I:R.S. 71. Shreikback Geffen The Feelies A& M 72. Blue Clocks Green Pre Post Da Sonic Youth Blast !=irst 73. MaroAimond Capitol The Poi)Qes Island 74. Love Trae~r DB ·Dingo Boingp 'NCA 75. Chrisbnas I.R.S. Big Country Polygram 76. Depeche Mode Sire New Order Ouest 77. The Smiths Sire Ftlghiof Mavis f'lecord cellar 78. Dreams SoRe~ Arista The Popes tlpon this rock 79. Joe Jackson A & M cowboy Junkies RLA 80. Love & Rockets Beggaar's Banquet The Waterboys <:hrysalis 81. The Fall Beggar's 13anquet The Co.nnells 1\IT 8 2. The Sidewin®rs Mammouth The Buck Pets 1sland 83.. Mamo-X Wangen ~crng Act 1slancJ 84. The The Epic: SCruffy the Cat Relativity 86. Bl'lkle.Cockbum Gold Caste Dinosaur Jr. $ST t6. Enya Geffen Simple Minds A&. M S:t. Stay Awake A & M Ttl$ Saints 1\IT 8 8. 'fhatPetrdl Emotion VIrgin A House Sire • Reprise at. Public lma.QQ Ltd. Virgin The Wlshniaks Blood Money 89.7 Cindy Leo Beny hill Rhino Happy Throngs Take this joy wherever you go. Thank you. . '

·Page 14 CONCORJ)tENSIS May 25, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS CLASSIFIEDS Found: TwO> w.atches last term around Ric.hrnortd. Call :x4413 Waiiied-roommatet\osii&e three bedroom apt. on Carrie St. next year. Call Molly 386- 4083 or Dave 386-4110. »1i\P1ex---va-u~--vraiikeii Ave. near carniJus. 3 BR up, 3 BRdown, nice~ Unfurnished, year lease, se:curity. A vail. May '89. 456-3548. lfo1iseSitier:-a;-a1iii\ble-IVIa\Y - August Pr0'fessional. For information c:all 346-2034. Ask for Joan. ---~-----~----------- Third floOo()·\t studio hrs. 2-10 p.m. Call462\5526. WANTED ___ GENERAL HELP to work in furniture store. Students who will be here for the summer, full or part time, and continuing later when classes resume in the fall. Male or female. 3374- 7785. NEED-s'fffiflfNT-To-no GARDEN WORK - $8.00/hr. Location - Niskayuna. Please contact 377- 9043. . . iA\'B\vsi'fTER-NE'EifED for 6 yr. old. Also have 10 & 11 yr. old. - $4.00/hr. Part time now - Full time June 26th 8-4 Mon.-Fri. Please contact Mark Kellett (Horne) 355-4755, (Work) 474-3914. Location, Gui19-erland. You gu.ys are so queer, I'm going t()smack you!! What are you goi11g to do without me next ye!ll''?! What am I going to do without you? Thanks for . everything guys! Love, P With an F Kim, Vick, Chiu & Killer- You gu,)'s have been the .best - It's hard! ito believe we have just met! l'na going to miss you soo mucl1! Love, Munchkin {A.K.A. The Peanut Gallery, S Platt, Gersty, and ·much more!) Jonesy· I had f11n, even though it wasn't abizarreweekend. Lookin!! forward to more loops ; .and water things this .summer. · Love, your biker woman. Cindy,. Susie & Leigh- . Amy, We've been through a lot- it's amazing that we've stayed.such good friends. Good luck in all that yo11 do. Love, your fellow crazy woman with the hormones. · Carolyn, Beth, Dara, Lisa, Hope you're excited for ne~t year. Get 20 Union good and ·ready for my return!. Love, karen · Craig, Yo11 are one ofmy rnost favorite people in the world and I'm going to miss you terribly. .. Always l;le as wonderful as you are and aJ.ways have been. Love, Andrea G. Congratulations to Chad levin and Leslie Ross, winners of mixed doubles tournament! Azia- . Here's your personal! Thetiext bottle of vodka (name yollf brand) is on me! · ·• Paoper- I don't even know where to begin -We've shared so much . over the past 3 yea,rs, it's hard · to-believe it has only been 3. Thanks for everything .. Love, the M:unchkin who's. gonna iniss you! Mike,· I love those Mickey Mouse _ boxers, when is the ne:xt show? P$. A horse is a horse of course, of cl)urse. Liz . ' apartment avaiLable for female boarder, ho\Lse shared with family. Kitcbern and bathroom privileges. 011e block from i Linton High School on i Waverly Place. Call AI Hutson 372~33565. .. I'd have to say its been an ~====~-·-===~~· interestillg year! Good luck in PERSONALS England, Israel, & China. Perry, -- I'm brewing a new pot of that . · magic potion ... Definitely next ... year!! I'll miss you. Larry, - Can't wait to play \all fall down\.· Buuuhb! r-e>i-fl>eciifeneedei-r\or apartment St\pL 89 -June 90. 317 l/2 Seward Pl. Call Larissa 377-44Qg, lTnTon-Siliii~nfdesvera!eiy Risa- Thank you for two wonderful years! You Will be gre~tly missed! I love you, Usa, Mami, Steph, Co11rt, Sorry I missed yoa and the weekend but I think it was worth it in the end! seeks to obtain summer housing in M:anhattan. I am very clean. neat, and quiet. Please help me; out. Call Brian Moss at 374-2939.: Love, Lisa Larry, Watch out for falling shopping i carts and thanks for the clothes. i7)<>kTilg---f\o.--sliiifei--aii Art apartment. 2-3 person, P.S. You hurt my rugby shirt located on University. End of and you die! June to end of August. Call Gretchen or Missa at 386- 4427. A.rfcir£ia\b1i-o\De--o-r--fwo Person Townhouse for summer sublet. • I 00 yds. fr()m campus .. fully furnislle<l • dishwasher and many appliances mclllded. R. Denny- I will really miss our weekend brunches, apple walnut muffins, aisle seats, walks and talks. Good luck with Panhell and enjoy the Holy Land! Lisa Stillman- 1: BBG, Union, SDT, SOC and Panhell...What's next? , Anymore trivia? Good luck . • private P\a;rking lot and laundry facilities. • very safe area, quiet and clean. If interested, ]Jlease call Brian and Marty at 374-2939. · next year. Remember I'm just a : phone call away. I Lori an9 Jill, LookTng-tO.--subiet-3-=4 Fun in the sun at Love, Hope person apartment for the Canajoharie ... it was a little summer. Gre~t location, near . clo11dy, now that I think about campus. If inteTested please call I it, but lots of fun. Next time, Lisa, Kriste11, ()r Ann at 374- maybe Dolina and Dick??? 8984. Lina Wanted-femaie-rooiiimate BMS- ' Thanx for everything. to share 3-bedroom townhouse. Available Jmrae., in Waltham, MA. Off Interstate 128. Please 1 call (617) 899--3380. · I I iiifLP-WANTED _______ i A-c1f---~-fN ______ Tl7 I Mannino- Now you're going to miss me!!! And don't ever try to deny it! LJL COMMERei ALS High Vero- Pay. No Ex::perience ... All ages, Je suis si hevreuse que toe tait kids, teens, young adults, a Union ette annee. Bonne families, m a.ture people, chance awee taus ce aue tu animals, etc. Call Now! Charm vou.draist Tu es une vraie anie~ Studios. (313) 542-8400 Ext. I · Gtos, Gros, Gros, Bisons. 7414. Andrea . sifMMER-J<fss:-s-p-eiid. your summer helping protect NY Environmoental future. The environmental planning lobby is now filling summer positions. Etun $200-500 a week while working to pass vital environmental legislation. Paid trainin,g, benefits, work · I always knew I would look back at us crying, and laugh. I just never thought I would look back at us laughing, and cry. Karen Anna. Hey you Z Rebels- Love, Jen D.I. Buddy, Lose the broad and in the next three weeks; let's lift the cup ... Art DaveF, I've reviewed your application and you've been instantly approved. Congtatulations! To u·s bot!I. and: do it. Buddy . Lots of memories ft:om a long · · time ago ... I'll really miss you. L.M. What Y*ould I do without you??!! You are there for everylthlng. We are almost seniors! ME ~~~~~--------~ Big Sis Lori: Good luck with everything! I love you Little Sis Lisa Little Sis, Kerry b.- Time is runn_ing out! Dinner soon! Love Big Sis Usa Keny, Cathy, 203 Ri(lhmond? Just as long as · Did you see a·bike outside? we're tcJgether- I love you. · , · ' Stili waiting fot~a-j>ict~H Gaby you and grandpa. I'll serid my LZ andevery other retarded name I've given to you! -From. Paul to Paula to Wonder Burger, we never cease to amaze me!! A good friend is a forever friend, who cares what happens in September?? Much Love, KC KC, Swan dive ... \J.ugs\ ... late night Comedy hour ... April Fools ... absent roomies ... Those were the best of times! I'm glacl we remained close friends all these years. Althomgh home will be further away, next year let's not allow it to come between us. You're thebe:st! Love,HF BucklmJO Beaver, I'll rni~s you and the retroactive drinkiJJg and everything else fun! Kathy .... everyone needs a senior to love l!lld miss ... To that \very clean, neat, and quietdesperate student\ - I hope ,ou fmd a home this summer. Where will I send post c:ards? Congratulations on getting the job., by the way. Zint! We miss you up here! See you in the fall! Hope the flight home is OK! Love, Sue & Beck Carol:yn and Beth, Keep the phone ringing and the teeth dean while I'm gone. Love, Karen number - you can wake me next year too! '- Love, Lori Apurva and Rob, Start cooking breakfast for usl -LandM Little Jill, Fiji Island - It still coulda been you on that couch, all the clothes on my bed ... I really . . · didn't know. But I do know - that I heart you. Little Lina T0 My Younger Friends, In case you are still \in the dark\ - I really am a senior and leaving in 2 weeks ... Unless ... Hansen! It's time to be going -I'll miss you all! Christopher, My very own hus machine :- where am I going to f\md another one! I'll never findone as wonderful and special as you. I'm going to miss you. · with all of my heart Love Andrea ' . . RJ, Well baby th!~ i~ it. I ~on:t be , W~ Sentimental woman y;ou take me for - JUST always . know how much I cherislt your friendship. Bye Every<>ne! LoveLina Suggestion! . If you ever come back from a term abroad live with Freshman. Try a \metal head\ a \Y akker'' and a \dork\ . I lqved it!! To All My \Little\ Friends - (all under 5'4\) After all that ... I'm a rho chi. ~tjust doesn't matter anymore ... June 1st ... get ready for an amazing year!!

PERSONALS To the girt who goes• both ways- A teen singer beats a red muppet hands down, and if I want to die just like · Hemingway .... Isntt tonight the SOT formal? Oh, i rneim ZBT! · Mon, G. Feteh, Miss - · Never was a di,JJ.ltn.ome.nt! We'll miss- yciu: .guys! But you.~re well traitled for the Senior life!· Work by day; drink by night ... Spring term, no work:. Hook up too! L&K .. ~ Married, single, hom~ abroad, starving, full~ plentiful, <by, healthy, sick, showered, dirty, CONCQRDIENSIS May 25, H~9 CAMPUS NEWS . Lisa .StiJlniari - - Thanks for making history more enjoyable! We'll \do lunch\ over the sllltliiler! Get ·psyched for tonight! Your new friend When I grow up, I want to be jlist like Chris Ponsiglione. When I gmw up, I want to be ju:st like Pete O'Connell. Sigma Delta Tau Seniors - The House will never be the same ever again. We1U miss Steve, Good luck with your finals and · . congratlllations on your up and coming graduation! Love always~ Karen · SDT Seniors - Good luck next year! !We will Page lS miss you. -The House -Lori \Killer\ Kapl~m­ Registrar called; made a mistake ... sorry, but you can't · graduate ... you're still missing a \dfhd\ credit. Love, Lina Kelley Green (is that really yow middle name??)Park .. We are: really going to miss you next ~ear! Good luck! Love;, Your Bath .Buddies (Joy, · -you guys beyond words .• ,don't ' I ever forget us!! Sarah, Amy, Les-lie) : Delta Juniors - ;. ; . I BethW, I ca,Q't wait ~ntil fall term when-wecari spend more than an ·hour of time together at once. 1 :miss you! ·. We have had some great · · banding _in the last week: - L.et's · keepitup! . ! Corne -watch the -annual Leslie Joy, DS- 3Weeks. :tinds, My .fall tenn -roomie: maybe breaking wood on our legs .We~e .goipg. to be neighbors again - Ju.st like the good old • • \W/asn~t such a good idea after Les :· all. days! i ·: CONCORDIENSIS ': ... ' I : : fatiguec4 insomniac, life, death, . AT .:. happy, .sad,joliy, zitty, · ~ Summer in New York and Love, Black and Blue Karate KidLina - WRUC Charity Softball Gaine. dumpy, endless conversation. · '·Hang Kong, Autumn in · · Cathy Lynn - There aren't enough words! DiSneyworld (?),and Christmas · · Well, it's almost over! It really · · L · inCQiorado- Good thing Ilike · wasn't 52 bad. June 1st, we'll : : From Pyramid to Jeopardy, from strawberry D's to vooo- woo's-,· from shy to let it loose, from lot& to p1ethora, we've co~ so far! J qst twist my arm! WIIere'd it all go? It's an enigma. It's unforgettable. to travel)' I'm going to miss . · ()fficialty be residents of y<;nd Schenectady. I'm so psyched LM When l grow up, I want~ be just like Bob Lip<lyberg. · Love always, Lina ·. Mikey- I1l all started that night 3 years ago •.. me and my infamous red ·. ----me boots. I\m going to miss you tons. . I Wednesday, May 31st, 4:30 p111 in library field! Brand- · · When i grow up,J want to be just like Doug Martocci. Love always, Lina 1 - :!.....-------------------- I think I've missed you!! I .promise that we'll hang out more in the fall. I'm definitely coming up to visit. •. · ' · ., -- · · · .Lina Smitb.House boys (including Hodge) ' Thanks for all those Tuesday and Wednesday ll,ights.! Grease, meeatloaf, intense intoxication! You guys :are the ultimate studs and we love yoU:! L&K Blow-off Ben, We're so glad were all friends! We'll think of you everytime we watch LA Law, alone. Let's ·cruise in the Volvo. We'll miss you. Lorri & Kathy Big Dave, Or shall I just call you Presmo? Thanks for dinner!! I -Hear Kansas calling my name ... Love Little Lina SDT, :Qidn't you have a good enough time at your own formal?? John and Mike, Are we really going to be roomates next year? We are going to have a great time. I can't wait. Chris Rob D, Remember me, I'm the one you used to hang out with, visi~ etc.? Well, wl1ether you believe it or not, I will teally miss you next year. Luckily, I'm art excellent letter writer! Lesmo. Lina& Amy, . You deserve apel'l)onal because you worked so hard copying over evecyone elSe's • so here it is! - by Berke Breathed ~--------------~ \5fi7KT 5/N«£ Milt£, Hfllf<Y t£65, /ICJ7V€ · NI&IIT tiF€, CIII?Rfff{j !21 ~# P/513111%5 ... :JffEK:J,, (//1. .. \ WI/AT?/ NOtJRIIN SCUM PI' •• Leslie L,;._ ____________ ~-----------------------------

Page 16 PERSONALS Kathie Boyd- The chuc schedule for next year is in your mailbox, so you. come visit me. Good luck and au that other stuff. Love Lina P.U.! You shouldn't throw what you're made of onto other people. Pepper Rinds and Macaroni Elbows certainly befit your style!! Lin a, Can I call you Sushi next year, too? I still expect personals when I'm gone. Love, Killer Jill, I must qaote Robin Denny from the last Concordy issue of Fall term 1988 - \I Miss you already!tl To all our younger SDT Sisters & Bruce We are sorry - Capital J Lori, - Not funny -I'll miss you! Maybe we'll all be able to do some work now. Love, Cathy Jill, Pick plan will be cheaper next year. LOve, Cathy .Robin, June 1st is sounding so good. No more signs. Love, Cathy Ken, We'll have a great summei. Can't wait for golf? Racquetball? Bike? Ha Ha! Love, Cathy Leslie and Amy, Leslie, F and Amy, 3: I've definitely exceeded my limit. I think I even broke my old record. Looking forward to .all the pizza and cookies next year. Love,Lina Lori,. Housemeetings - any more questions. No Respect. I promise to carry it on. Love, Cathy My name is Elizabeth Rose McArthur, I am tired of living a life of sin - next year I'm joining a convent. To the Only \No\ - Don't be sad! Someday yow prince will come. v CONCORDJENSIS Ma,y ~5., 1989 CAMPUS NEWS make it uphere? If so ... Major ·. miss you. Culture Shock! Love, yow little sister Love, The pseudo-senior. • · ~~~~-:o-;;:;:----::-:'t::':-:--­ V ALSJ\R ls the Pop-a-shot Queen. , 1 Stillman, Have fun! Nice dress! I'll miss . . -::-::--==::::::;;;;:-;:;:--;-:;;:-;;:-;;;;;;::;--~- .1 you Lil Sis! · 21 SEED SALUTE Love, Lori · Happy Birthday \Bob~' Hope Jen & Kristen. · Get Psyched For \Fruitcups\ Concert! \' Zin- Zee,. · To your first personal! Say \Hi\ to Pete. I love you. · -Poopie ·: Wendy, . , We love our little senior who : dropped her courses so she would have more time to go . ' out. And we will miss.her very, very much. Good luck next year - remember you can always come back to 301. Love, your apartment mates Lauri- I'm sure I\ be seeing plenty'of · you~ but I'll miss you next year. We'll plan more weekends. 301 Seward Place, It's been an awesome two · terms. q:\hanks for everything. Love, Kristen Karen L, · You're an awesome big Sister. Thanks for everything. I'll you · see many more \Sling shots,\ and many happy days, under yo'Ul' tree .. . '=-::--:--'\-'--;;----;:-\\-;-;.-;-- At least it wasn't .a killer buzz. What a relief to be at the Big U where it is safe to be bad, Committee for Violations at Snatcher Park. Five tons, ·One towel, four cars, thirteen dogs and a mounted policeman who advices: '\Don't choke -don't smoke;\ Thanks for the advice you big jerk. Thanks to everyone who helped · celebrate my 21st Birthday. I had a great time. You're the best. MHH- Thanks! Steff, , Christos. KL First too much yawning - Then Shaky, Sweaty dreams. What is happening to me? . -Mad Dog .P.S. I really,. really, really like you, too.! · BLOOM COUNTY Nancy, Senior Delta's- Y ou.'re the best ,. I love you, You.'re all wild ;.jnd crazy girls, . but nexNime try ·NOTT t~· Margie lose your clothes! Thanks for P.S. I 'hear there might be a ~ale on meat grinders! . , the tlowersl Luv,1' When lying on West Beach, · for th-at bottle do· not reach, dJink only out of cans. and .- - . do not forget your wrist bands! • Happy Camp Union! liy-:Berke ·:areatbedn· .~------~--------~ Love, Me· Can I just tell you- I've got hearts on my shorts now lose the bra- '~ Art- you're a nerd. Larry .... everyone needs a Steven to love ... F14U- Get my room ready. Could I possibly ever be too bu~y to ~ I . . -

CONCQR.Dl11NS.lS May 25, 19-89 Page 17 CAMPUS NEWS ===========··= . them all in one house? You are Jen Wallace, what you eat!! C. C. · Just remember that all I do and PERSONJ)LS L & K , say is because-I love you. I GMC, •. To My NewFound Buddy- Thanks for the invitation - i You are the best and I can't Tuesday morning. When I told : wait for next year! Time to 6en, S~ and Kees, they I' Rage. . will miss next year, but don't worry .. you11 be hearing from :rne. :Best of luck! All my love. Your Big Sister Delta Seniors- You guys are awesome, We love you! Love, Beka Psi . lZ, Amy, Congrats for a job well done this Saturday. It was great to work with you! Laksh To the Deltas at the Monday night reunion: wanted to cometoo buti told Tangerine. . • Muncbkin- themi wanted one night of ye11 Too t:nanr memories to count!. Zelma and Edna seem so f~ away! You're a super duper friend. I look forward to sharing many more good times with you. I love ya! Thanks for the fun and the game! It will have to hold us over until we all return from our worldly ttavels. to myseJ[ 1 A dog, -a sunrise, raiti, and Thank you for being a terrific Love, P. 1 silver ... Thanks far the friend~ you're always there to Dits DL, .I• memories and the mind games! lis~n (to the same babble). -Keep smiling. You.\re the beans! Denny, Love Liz & Karen P.S. Meet, greet, love, leave and break them in right. What can I say? You're amazing - congratulations!.! r . · Jitz & Aldo, · · can't tell you how happly I am \We used to love you but we for yml! , · had to kill you!\ W ¢'11 miss Love always, your Sappy out two favorite Zeebs and the · Daughter ·. 0-N-R!!! Let's hope the :;:.-:-~;--'-:';:,.___~=---\\\\:\\'---~ ' telephone lines aren't down St11d (that's you Bryce), farever! Wish we had gote11 to know you sooner!! Stay Happy!! . L&K Steve, Jon and Lori~ · Dinner again?? I promise to bring money. I'll miss ·you guys more tnan ever. Little Lilla Billy, B., Tone, Caroose & Aroor, Roses. ate Red, The real thing you fa){e; will miss you .all next year, and the abuse ,fuat we take!! L&K Nancy andJavaQ, . · All this cuteness could make me crazy! L&K Sophomore Deltas· Monday was a blast! · ·'{telephone, the ' 1 Ftaternity Game\) Let's do it again soon! I'll miss yo!l guys! Delta Love, Nicole .. Rob, Make some big bucks and maybe we'll actually make it to the movies. I'll miss yo11. · Love,Lina Bon Jeari - . · Here's the ~onal you begged for. We'll go to sig chi soon so you can check out ... Love, Me Puck Suite, Stillman, · ~!r 17 ~ys to get~~~ last_. -<;~and J..missed you ~ery g}iifipse Qfth~;ga.JaxyHf you · · · : rnuchtHope your weekend was t:md yourself iJp,campus, that .amazing:! · · is·!· Love, Denny· (Q.P.) L&K Prokosch & Zifcak- Cpngratulations on MVP ranking! Love, the other half of suite 250 * * * LameApartmentofthe yeat: award goes to)046 Park: Ave.*** Killert Twerp and Lit:, · I'm. going to cry soon but it's because rm happy sad not really sad sad ... Little R- Thanks for the piggy-back ride and for making me laugh. (tickle-tickle) Love, N. . 714 Union- . I am so excited! Can not wait for next year! Love, Denny. Jen, I.L.Y. T.l! I.W.T.M.L.W,Y. F -- 1·0: h.; A T.. A\' • ' s . I ••• I SOT- Steve Lope, . Don't forget - mugs come with After all you've been through... . Senior Banquet! · What will you do,withmrt Submit your Ter1n Abroad pictures to the ·Yearbook.- Drop them off in cc 408. - \ . Pooper. SDT- Beware of K9 and any inversly proportional relationships! Love, Killer . Wlty are we waiting???!! The Seniors Jill, A. :S.abs- You know how much you mean to me! :Get ready - I'm coming to Pb.illy! Lots of Love, Ellis the rim man, Ann, Bob, DF-IID, Social misfits, Mr. M., Photo album, phone game, MY answering machine, my exhausting Sis and All our great times! Charity. Love, Kill 1989-90 COLLEGE CALENDAR September 1989 . 3 Residence halls open 3-6 Freshman orientation 5 Freshman advising 5-7 Fall term registration 7 Clases Begin 22 Last Day for changes in schedule October 1989 6-7 November 1989 Homecoming weekend 15 Classes end 17 Fall term exams begin 22 Exams end at 4:00pm; recess begins; residence halls close at 6:00pm January 1990 2 3 3-4 16 March1990 13 15 21 22 Apri11990 1 ~ 2-3 13 19-20 Jmte1990 8 11 14 15-17 17 Residence halls open at noon Winter term classes begin Winter term registration Lb: st day for changes in schedule Classes end Winter term exams begin Exams end; Recess begins Residence halls close at noon Residence halls open at noon Spring term classes begin Spring term registration Last day for changes in schedule Academic recess (no classes) Classes end Spring term exams begin Exams end Reunion weekend Commencement .. I' ~ .•

' ., ~ Page 18 CONCORDJENSIS Moy 25, 1989 BLOCK U VARSITY LEnER WINNERS: ~ . . . FOOTBALL Ahearn, Patrick Anderson, Robert .Bowers, Brian Calderoni, Michael Callahan, Mark Caruso, Mark Catanzaro, John Conklin,. William Cushman, Trey Delisio, Mark Diloreto, Mario Duffy, Christopher Faria, Bryan Felipe, Alejandro Fiala, Kevin Floor, William WOMEN'S SOCCER Angelides, Nicole Blake, Melissa Butler, Cynthia Carlir:1, Meghali Erdman,. Jynne Gallo, Julie Mattsson, Karen Ross, Leslie - Seed, Kimberley Stevens, Kimberley Thomas, Terti Wise, Victoria ~Poor, Herrika WOMEN'S TENNIS Budlong, Stephanie Cohen, Andrea Dashef, Alysia Hill, Jennifer Oltchick, Amy Redding, Jayme Rice, Lisa · Rosenzweig, Elissa Sarwin, Valerie Vadlamudi, Lakshmi FIELD HOCKEY WOMEN'S CROSS COUNTRY Anselment, Sandra Cargile, Sherti Neilsen, Lynette Parsons, Margaret :Regan, Jennifer HOCKEY Baratoff, Nicholas .Burchill, Richard Campbell, Terrance Clifford, Richard Cotier, Peter Oregan, limothy D'Orio, Christen Ferrero, Craig Goguen, J. Marc Gould, Daniel Gustafson, Darrell Kinghom,. Ronald Logan, Guy Lucey, Brian Manley, Scott Menhall, Dalton Orenberg, Peter Railton, William Robertson, Keith Sedergren, William Sullivan, Paul Whitney, Scott WOMEN'S SWIMMING Curtis, Cindy Cutrone, Jeanne Cybul, Joy Dorsa, Kerstin Fiedler, Pamel Glicksman, Anne Halsdorf, .Jennifer Joyce, Jennifer Kavaney, Kathleen Kelly, Mary Upsher, Jaimie Matloff, Ellen Nolan, Jennifer O'Neill, Amy Pizzuto,. Usa Sternberg, Wendy Tille, Karen Torpie, Susan Torrant, Jennifer Walsh, Melita Wackerle, Heather MEN'S INDOOR TRACK Nadeau, Mark Root, Aaron Secchiaroli, Patrick T:rudeau, Mark Valachovic, Tr:acy Walkoff, Neil · MEN'S TENNIS Ackerman, Robert O'Orio, Christen Lasewiei;, Garrett Levin, Chad Miller, Christopher O'Brien', James Schmid, Keil Voyticky, Joseph GOLF Bruhn, Michael Katz, Peter Roberts, Richard Wellington, David WOMEN'S LACROSSE MEN'S LACROSSE Albert, Jason Arnold, MattheW Belldwin, Dennis Baratoff, Nicholas Ber:iage, Jan Cassidy, Micbael Cotier, Pe~er .Daniels, Scott DeBerardinis, David Dolherty, Sean Donaldson, David Fleischer, Alan :Freidrich, Carl · Gargiulo, Jonathan Garnett, Paul Garnett, Steve Geraghty, Brian Gobron, Robert Gc:»ethe, Joseph Hamilton, Christopher Henderson, Blake Johnson, Christopher Keller, John Lawson, Patrick. Lowney,, Brendan Luc;ey, Brian Mahar, Thomas Ray, Eugene Ramsay, ChristQpher Ford, Michael Fotiadis, George Genge, Clifton Giamo, Vincent Goetz, Gregory Hayes, Steve.n Healy, David Henderson, Blake Horrigan, Thomas Johr.~son, John Klinger, Daniel Krause, Jason Lombardoni, Thomas Manti, Anthony Mason, Ryan Mclaughlin, Kevin Mclees, Timothy McMahon, Thomas o~connell, Maurice Peden,. Gregory Poirier, James Priore, Anthony Rappelyea, Allan Ricciardi, Dominic Richardson, Todd Riglietti, Robert Root, Aaron Bohl, Mary Beth Donaldson, P.atricia Eisma, Roselle Greener, Heidi Hardy, Carolyn Hayes, Mary MEN'S BASKETBALL Allen, William Campoli, James Emmi, Michael Frisb!e, Thomas Genge, Clifton Guyette, MattheW Hayes, Steven Lindyberg, Robert Martocci, .Douglas Mowry., Shawn Protzel, Peter Reynolds, Keith Rosenfeld, Jonathan Schwarz, Hans Sirowich, Michael Shepard, David Silver, George Simkins, Jeffrey Sweet, James Townsend, Robert Zembek, Richard Allen, Anna Angelicles, Nicole Bidstrup, Robin Blake, Melissa Bohl, Mary Beth Conway, Sheila Hardy, Carolyn Hyde, Lynne Kennedy, Megan Lavigne, Danielle Lynch, Courtney Rosenfield, Stacey Ryan, Kristen Seed, Kimberley Shukri, Fiona Tapley, E;llen . Richardson, Michael Royce, P.hilip U~llini, Michael Wehrum, Treyh · Winship, William Qui~, Kim Rosin, Benjamin Russ, Brett Samuelson, Richard Sirowich, Michael Smick, Todd Griffin, Horace Groesbeck, William Hallas, Gregory Smith, Matthew Smith, William Sokolowski, Robert Strolla, Michael Tryon, Eric Van Horn, Michael Walker, Jerald Werdann, Richard MEN'S SOCCER Avery, Christopher Desmarais, Brian Engdahl, Richard Epstein, Aaron G1.1ral, Eric Haas, David Hodson, Donald Kijak, Michael McTague, Denning Miller, Brett Nadeau, Mark Reaman, Eric Sollinger, Jeremy Ventriglia, Alexander Smith, Jacqueline Hyde, Lynn Lavigne, Danielle Lopata, Jean Lynch, Courtney Lyon,..Jennifer McKibbin, Kerry Mulvany, Ann P.allotta, Allison Swaggart, Beth Zifcak, Monica VOLLEYBALL Berman, Debra Brush, Mary Charbonneau, Lisa Dudzic, Sarah Ghezzi, Roxanne Goldschmidt, Alix Hackett, Jane Hoban, Anne Kim, Jeniffer Marra, Kim Masterson, Melanie Smith, Susan Stillman, Lisa MEN'S CROSS COUNTRY Campoli, James LeBrou, James Lindyberg, Robert Martinez,. Michael Martocci,. Douglas Rothenberg, Edmund Steen, David Zembek, Richard 1988-89 VARSITY LETTER WINNERS: Brescia, Gerald Brindle, Paul Bruhn, Michael Feeney, Michael Gibbs, Scott Gregory, Douglas Nestor, Alexander Nicolas, Steve Rhodes, Elgin Scott, Joseph Sussman, David Zaccheo, Philip WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Alquist, Catherine Gallo, Julie Getty; Wendy Hill, Jennifer Hilton, Lisa Hunter, Cynthia Lopata, Jean Prokosch, Gina Romer, Robin Vincent,. Wendy MEN'S SWIMMING Boon, Maurits Broome, Jason Buchin, Gordon Fraiji, Elie Judge, Timothy Kim, Thomas Lynch, Timothy Pitt, Dallas Tremaglio, Anthony Wagshul, Andrew Walsh, Christopher Wertalik, Louis John All one, two, or three year winners Inay pick up their awards in Dick Sakala' s Office this week between 9 am ~ 3 pill WOMEN'S INDOOR TRACK Anselment, Sandra Cargile, Sh(mi Danforth, Debra Dobbs, Elizabeth Erdman, Lynne Goldschmidt, Afix McMillan, Denise P.arsons, Margaret Poor, Herrika Sarwin, Valerie Williams, Allison Woodard, Stephanie BASEBALL Amarante, Anthony Bowers, Brian Brundige, William Callahan, Mark DiLoreto, Mark Ferrero, Craig Giorgano, David Haas, David Klinger, Daniel Lincoln, William SOFTBALL Alquist, Catherine Dudzic, Sarah Eisma, Roselle Gallo, Julie Hladik, Melissa Keller, Kimberly Kersch, Susan Kove, Jennifer Lawliss, Kathleen Lopata, Jean Romer, Robin Sanchez, Teresa Thayer, Rebekah Whitted, Joyce WOMEN'S OUTDOOR TRACK Anderson, Lora Anselment, Sandra Bagatelle, Adrian Cargile, Sherri Danforth, Debra Erdman, Lynne Gifford, Natalie Goldschmidt, Alix Jewett, Elizabeth McMillan, Oenise Parsons, Margaret Poor, Herrika Reynolds,. Kimberly Williams, Alison MEN'S OUTDOOR TRACK Allen, William Barrett, Gr~ory Broga, Arthur Campoli, James Etnmi, Michael Frisbie, Thomas Genge, Clifford Guyette, Matthew Hayes, Steven Lewis, Sascha Lindyberg, Robert Lombardoni, Thomas Martinez, Michael Martocci; Douglas Prot4el; Peter 'Reynolds, Keith Schwarz, Hans .Shepard, David Silver, George Simkins, Jeffrey Sirowich, Michael Vasandani, Jitendra Zembek, Richard Anderson Lora THE UNION INTRAMURAL DEPARTMENT WISHES TO CONGRATULATE ITS 1988-89 LEAGUE CHAMPIONS: 6 Man Flag Football-- Sigma Chi S Man Flag Football -- Sigma Chi Co-Ree .Flag F~otball -- Sigma Chi Men's Soccer-- \YOU SUCK\ Co-Ree Soccer-- \THE HOO'IERS\ Women's Volleyball -~ \NO NAMES'' 3-Man Basketball-- Zeta Beta Tau Men's Tennis Doubles -- Pete Saperstone & Jed Ferdinand Men's Broomball -- ;'RACCOONS\ Women's Broomball-- \JETSONS\ · Men'~ }i:ock.ey -- Chi Psi \A:' 5-Man Basketball, \A\ League -- Sigma Chi \GOLD\ 5- Man Basketball, \B\ League -- Delta Phi Co-Ree Volleyball-- Sigma Chi \GOLD\ Foul Shooting Contest -- Pat O'Day - \iN.' teague Softball -- Delta Upsilon \B\ League Softball -- No Champion dut to ineligible players Co-Ree' Softball -- F'IJI Men's Lacrosse -- Delta Upsilon Men's Volleyball -- \FORESl\IN\ Men's & Women's Tenis Singles -- To be determined THA.NKS. TO ALL PA,RTICWANTS!!!

CONCQRDIENSIS Mav 25, 1989 Page 19 I -; ··.\ Qtnntntillens is SPORT'S Mouthing. Off SPORTS ACCORDING T·O GOETZ By ANDY BRAVER 'Will somebody please tell -me the difference between a 'Most Valqable Player' and a 'Player ()f the Year'?. After Magic · Jo1tnso~1 of the Los Angeles: Lakers won the N:ational Basketball League's ~award,. my understanding of-lhe award is rton~existent~ il'his is not a . knock on M.~gic.~ He is a .great player, d~fmitely Qne of the best ·of all tiirie. Bt1t his_· team woula still wtn without him . .Is tliat what 'vtJJuable' meansi .The player who means the most to his ·~ _, - - . team is 'most valuable' because . - wfthout him, they would collapse. Or does it mean the player wl:i.o has had the 'best' season ofJU1yone in the league? Does he have to win games witlt last sef;ond heroics, or score, or retioutid, br just do everything? What does it mean?:Let r!1e falls k:I'low~ · so. there is no seeond guessing after the award has been given. I,.ast year's MVP was Michael Jordan. He had a great year, leading his team single- handedly to over 50 wins. But tlfis year was better. He AVERAGED over 32 points, 8 . re.J?punds, and 8 assists a game. Wow. Sure, .. Magic 'also had gfeat munber-s:,... ·bu1 they ·were not as good as they were when · he won the MVP in 1987, If you took Jordan away from Chicago, the Bulls would be just a mirror image of the pa~hatic Miami Heat. A Mf}gicless Laker team still has great players in James Worthy, Contributions ARE WELCOME ~ AND· ~-WOULD BE GREATLY APPRECIATED FOR NEXT WEEK'S D I s T 0 R D I E N s l s Byron Scott,... the list continues. Take Saturday's playoff game against the Pl'10eni~ Suns. Magic sat down halfway throqgh the third quarter with five fouls in a two-point game. The Lakers still won by eight Jordan bas averaged over 37 points a game in the playoffs and has raised his game to incredtible levels. He is the only reason Chicago is still alive. :and in contention for the Championship. This is not unlike what happened a few years back when Lru;ty Bird wen the MVP and Bernard King of the Nw York Kn_icks finished second. King led the league .in scoring and played incredibly, even though he was the only gurt on the team. The Knicks · were awful with him on the bench' they · practically stunk up Madison Square Garden when Bemard was not on the -court. Bb;d, on the other hand. played for a fttst J2lace team with four other all-stars. Sure, he had a grat year, but the Celtics still: would have won a lot .of games witllout him. I sug.gest reworking the award system. Tile writers can still vote for tlle winner, but add a second award. for outs tanding players. Create a 'P1ayer of the Year' aw!ll'd to go the one guy who had the best season, regardless of how his team did. Wlto excelled higher than the rest? Fer the second, make ~e MVP areal award for a VALUABLE player, the guy whQe holds his team up, and wh~ does win games single- h.andedly for his. team. Then maybe, the controversies will end. By G:REG GOETZ Sports Editor Damn, this is the final installment _ of Sports According to Goetz. The bon voyage. It surely has been an interesting year. We'v.e !~nghed, we've cried: by golly, It s been educational. Before fall term, how _ many of you knew that Doc Ellis pitched a no-hitter on LSD. See what I mean. One term which I hope that I've clarified, or at least shed some light on the meaning of, is the student-athlete. Athletics at the Division HI level are unlike any other type of sporting event. For the many issues related to Division III athletics and its competitors, I've tried to apply my experience as an English major and football player here at Union. Hoepfully, my column has .proved the quality of both of these departments. ··············-················· Tuesday night, I was walking to the Concordiensis office to write this column, and someone asked me \Are you that sportswriter?\ and, \Who is going to win the Calgary/ Montreal game?\ Now, hockey is not my favorite sport. I don't even follow it closely. I just like ~!1e highlights on the eleven o'clock news. But he wouldn't leave without an answer. After a tense moment of not knowing who was favored or where the game was being played, I said \Montreal.\ That's what he wanted to hear, so I realty didn't pick a team. If there is one thing that I have learned from writing this column, it is Congratulations! Delta Upsilon and Delta .... Gamma Greek Week Champions 1989 . to never again make picks on any sporting event. It's hard to put your money where your mouth is when you continue to bounce checks. Probably the biggest reasn that I have enjoyed writing this column, and continued into my spring tenn, senior year (when •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• If You Intense Enjoy Thrilling, Competition, Go See The ·CONCORDIENSIS Staff- versus~· 89.-7 WRUC staff· in Fo_urth Annual - Softball Game Thursday, June 1 @ Library Field - 4:30 P.M. Mark Zimmerman could use some help Fall Term Don't Forgetl Write lor Spom ALUMNI GYM will be closed SATURDAY, MAY 27 due to Camp Union I could've easily found an excuse not to) is the reaction to and discussion provoked by it. Hey, it even gave me . something to talk about at parties. Seriously. the measure of success of my column has been the generous amount of feedback which I have received since the fall. Also, the fact that so many people have enjoyed the wit, ins~ght, and sincerity I have offered indicates the degree to which Sports AccoJding to Goetz will be missed as much as I will miss it. FINAL SPRING ' SPORTS SCOREBOARD \' MEN'S BASEBALL (7-16) WOMEN'S SOFTBALL (9-9) 5thPlace finish in the STATE TOURNAMENT MEN'S LACROSSE (9-5) WOMEN'S LACROSSE (4-8) MEN'S TENNIS (5-7) GOLF (2-4) RUGBY (3-8)

''· Fiona Shukri, David Sussman, Guy Logan, Horace Griffin, Alan Fleischer and W I s • • omen s ·. W1mm1ng PHOTO ESSAY BY: CHRIS WILLIAMS . .,., ... ,. - . ..., \\-\ May 25,1989 · .. ·.~ • ~~J' .. · -· ' . \'' -

Fiona Shukri, David Sussman, Guy Logan, Horace Griffin, Alan Fleischer and Women's Swimming PHOTO ESSAY BY: CHRIS WILLIAMS May 25, 1989

a Jol\e •• · Vol. IIIA.X~l'I No. AI' Continued .From Pag~ One Read the column on the right first, dummy! will happen then? Maybe, if we're lucky, ·we'll remember the countless thousands Who have died at the hancls of ruthless communists. So we pr.epared to go into the pit, where as the National .Liddy demonstrates t~e traditional family death grip which he Review, our personal favorite used on Professor TobJesser:t newspaper, says we ···are once L· l .. ··d .. dy· p· r,. e.v· 31 ·l··s A.s again becoming a battleground- -and an uneven one at lhat with . • . I . Q t · d radicals trampling the righ~ of TobIe sse n s . us e . : free expressiOn and bullymg . · . · · ~oJ'tp~re~~~:;,~;- ···From--chairmanship the pursuit .of truth ... \ We By THE ''·COURSES\ Tobiessen. approached our first SPAA Gallavanting towards meeting cautiously, knowing Following a controversial Tobiessens 1 desk, he adjusted that it was a nest of · · editorial in the May 18 issue,of . himself once, and assumed a Communist, leftist, Marxist, Concordiensis, G. Gordon dominating stance in front of • and quite possibly fascist pigs. Liddy returned to Union with • the desk. He glared knowingly After all they have had • tllougbts of revenge circling into the tiny eyes of a previous record of supporting within his devious yet Tobiessen. \You claim that such vile programs as WIC and intellectually stimulating Hitler was dynamic too,\ Liddy environmental cleanups. As we brain. As Liddy stonned into remarked, \but did he have an all know, the best use for any the Science and Engineering · IQ like mine?\ Tobiessen given natural space is to put it Building, he warned that he chimed in a child~like manner, to work for us, you know, as would \prevail\ and that Peter \Rosemary Heinegg says that something worthwhile like a Tobiessen would not \survive.\ IQ is not a valid measure of landfill, or a mine. · Liddy burst through the intellect.\ Well, we were right to be Biology Department office, · Now enraged, Liddy prepared for s<_>mething awful. opened fire on the Department paralyzed. Tobiessen with ~e From the openmgperfonnance secretary,andexclaimed, \What traditional family death gnp, of the :Russian national the hell, it's just one more dead returned to the secretary's anthem, to the closing plans person in the world.\ Taking a office and began to issue for Presmois assassination, 'the brief moment to reinstate Sex . mem~s on Department whole experience resembled a and Sexuality as a course at letterhead declaring himself brainwaslled cult The members Union, he then proceeded into newly appointed chair of the all had an eerie, hypnotic look. the office: of Professor Biology Department. Their glazed eyes were a sure _ sign of mushroom induced madness. We a1I know what they do at those rallies. ,Obviously this was not the place to .save W~stern civilization as we know It. We . waited out the meeting and then fled, fearful for our lives an.d open minds. 1877 Restore The Nott Gives ln: \Alumin·um · Siding Is The Right Choice'' D-Day The Union Under- ground By BETTY BOOP and PHONDA PHANS Having heard about the By THE \COURSES\ rampant rise of liberal activism After countless months of on the Union Campus and hard' work and determination, taking the large number of tie- Keith Bemis, Founder and dyes around as solid eviden.ce, President of the Restore The we decided to set out and fmd Nott Stud~nt lrlitiative, has · the root of the trouble. We abandoned the cause. Bemis ' received an anonymous tip-off stated in a press conference last that SPAA (Society for Pinko week that \I have yet to find Anarchists and Assassins) was gainful summer employment, a veritable hot bed of bleeding and have decided that this heart liberalism, you know the Restore The Nott thing is a sort based on emotional poor excuse for a -resume'· · ·sentimentHlity, God forbidJ! builder.\ The 1Jnion campus has Joe Pascarelli, owner of previously been notorious for Pascarelli Aluminum Siding . inviting speakers who \attack Co. who wasa1soin attendance everything America is today,\ at the press conference, also such as the renowned refused to offer Bemis a job, communist, G. Gordon Liddy. but did offer a positive solution We were in fact horrified ti:Jat to the problem. Pascarelli : · out tuition dollars, ten maintained that \Aluminum • thousand of them, were siding is both attractive and · supporting a man who affordable, and is the right displayed such consideration for choice.\ such a subversive issue as Upon hearing this human rights. The next thing compelling evidence. VP Jack you know those anarchists will Maranville, also in attendance, be inviting one of those immediately crowned Pascarelli amnesty people araund to as the chairman of a new speak, and who knows what initiative which would be fully , Look to the left dummy· overseen by G. Gordon Liddy. In closing, Berni~ pledged support to the newly founded cause. and added thal \Orange aluminum siding would provide a faaaabulous contrast to the already magnificent colors of autumn at Union.\ ...... \'Bf1Jitt:'Oti 'Dread ·~ ~ ' . ~w~n 1 s. Thus our fears were confirmed, the red peril is alive and well at Union College. It is now upon to us to expend all our energy in protecting truth, justice, and the American way. After all, we are the inheritors of the Western world, the only bastion of freedom. Yeah, how . could those damn liberals attack everything America is today-- the racism, poverty, and balilnced budget??? We think it might just be time for us to transfer to a tnore conservative school like Hampshire. ho\\- aboutyou? Photo of the Yaar: Union students march on Washington.

It's Just a Joke • • 1877 Vol. IIIAX~YI No. AI Continued From Page One Read the column on the right first, dumm;y! wiU happen then? Maybe, if we're lucky, we'll remember the countless thousands who have died at the hands of ruthless communists. So we prepared to go into the pit, where as the National Review, our personal favorite newspaper, says we \are once again becoming a battleground- -and an uneven one at that with radicals trampling the right of free expression and bullying those who do not share their zealotry to place ideology over the pursuit of truth ... \ We approached our first S.? AA meeting cautiously, knowing that it was a nest of Communist, leftist, Marxist, and quite possibly fascist pigs. After all they have had a previous record of supporting such vile programs as WIC and environmental cleanups. As we all know, the best use for any given natural space is to put it to work for us, you know, as something worthwhile like a landfill, or a mine. Well, we were right to be prepared for something awful. From the opening performance of the Russian national anthem, to the closing plans for Presmo's assassination, ·the whole experience resembled a brainwashed cult. The members all had an eerie, hypnotic look. Their glazed eyes were a sure sign of mushroom induced madness. We all know what they do at those rallies .. Obviously this was not the place to save Western civilization as we know it. We waited out the meeting and then fled, fearful for our lives and open minds. Thus our fears were confirmed, the red peril is alive and well at Union College. It is now upon to us to expend all our energy in protecting truth, justice, and the American way. After all, we are the inheritors of the Western world, the only bastion of freedom. Yeah, how could those damn liberals attack everyLi}ing America is today-- the racism, poverty, and balanced budget??? We think i1 might just be time for us to transfer to a more conseiVative ~chool like Hampshire, bo\\ about you? Liddy demonstrates the traditional family death grip which he used on Professor Tobiessen. Liddy Prevails As Tobiessen Is Ousted Fro111 Chairmanship Tobiessen. By THE \COURSES\ Following a controversial editorial in the May 18 issue of Concordiensis, G. Gordon Liddy returned to Union with thoughts of revenge circling within his devious yet intellectually stimulating brain. As Liddy stormed into the Science and Engineering Building, he warned that he would \prevail\ and that Peter Tobiessen would not \survive.\ Liddy burst through the Biology Department office, opened fire on the Department secretary, and exclaimed, \What the hell, it's just one more dead person in the world.\ Taking a brief moment to reinstate Sex and Sexuality as a course at Union, he then proceeded into the office, of Professor Gallavanting towards Tobiessen's desk, he adjusted himself once, and assumed a dominating stance in front of the desk. He glared knowingly into the tiny eyes of Tobiessen. \You claim that Hitler was dynamic too,\ Liddy remarked, \but did he have an IQ like mine?\ Tobiessen chirned in a child-like manner, \Rosemary Heinegg says that IQ is not a valid measure of intellect.\ Now enraged, Liddy paralyzed Tobiessen with t~e traditional family death gnp, returned to the secretary's office, and began to issue memos on Department letterhead declaring himself newly appointed chair of the Biology Department. Restore The Nott Gives In: \Aluminum Siding Is The Right Choice\ By THE \COURSES\ After countless months of hard work and determination, Keith Bemis, Founder and President of the Restore The Nott Stud~nt I11itiative, has abandoned the cause. Bemis stated in a press conference last week that \I have yet to find gainful summer employment, and have decided that this Restore The N ott thing is a poor excuse for a resume builder.\ Joe Pascarelli, owner of Pascorelli Aluminum Siding Co. who was also in attendance at the press conference, also refused to offer Bemis a job, but did offer a positive solution to the problem. Pascorelli maintained that \Aluminum siding is both attractive and affordable, and is the right choice.\ Upon hearing this compelling evidence, VP Jack Maranville, also in attendance, immediately crowned Pascarelli as the chairman of a new initiative which would be fully overseen by G. Gordon Liddy. In closing, Bemis pledged support to the newly founded cause, and added that \Orange aluminum siding would provide a faaaabulous contrast to the already magnificent colors of autumn at Union.\ Photo of the Year: Union students march on Washington. D-Day The Union Under- ground By BETTY BOOP and PHONDA PHANS Having heard about the ram pant rise of liberal activism on the Union Campus and taking the large number of til:- dycs around as solid evidc~.cc, we decided to set out and imd the f()Ot of the trouble. We received an anonymous tip-off that SPAA (Society for Pinko Anarchists and Assassins) was a veritable hot bed of bleeding heart liberalism, you know the sort based on emotional sentimentality, God forbid!! The Union campus has previously been notorious for inviting speakers who \attack everything America is today,\ sucb as the renowned communist, G. Gordon Liddy. We were in fact horrified that our tuition dollars, ten thousand of them, were supporting a man who displayed such consideration for sucll a subversive issue as hum.an rights. The next thing you know those anarchists will be inviting one of those amnesty people around to speak, and who knows what Look to the left dummy! Not-.In This Issue: ... onion rings -Pineapple yogurt -Fudge chocolate cbun k ice cream -Broccoli bread -Chicken wings -Milkshakes .. cole slaw .;.Good taste

, , Page 2 DISTORDlENSIS D-DAY, 1989 The Overwhelmingly Unbearable Dilen1ma of DK By DJK Sometimes, when the air is full of jealousy and confusion, I let my mind wander--1 let it soar. I let it fly beyond the farthest· reaches of my imagination. To lands, seas and places far away .and unknown I traveL At times, in the deepest reaches of my soul, I find her waiting there. She is reading Calculus For the Confused Reader, by Emile St. Interpolate (a· native of Borneo). I offer her a mango. She refuses, saying she'd rather eat mangoes with former Education Secretary and now Drug Czar William Bennett. I arrive for class just in time to get my favorite seat. I see it there, winking at me, and urging me to come forward and imbibe in its seductive pleasures. The perfect seat. \Hey Dan!·\ shouts a rude voice. Here comes that fat guy, Willy Lardo; \Oh God,\ I think, \now I have to deal with this boorish swine and at the same time keep an eye on my seat.\ Well,. needless to say, I found Willy's conversation about mud wrestling and alcohol consumption enthralling, and my attention moved from my seat to Willy's drooling. Willy eventually ran out of saliva, and I turned to my seat. There is a monstrous, overpowering figure dominating my precious flower of a chair ... William Bennett, He smirked in my direction and held his hands in the air. I step from a small pub in the Georgetown to the edge of the .curb, and hold my hand up for a passing cab. It slows down. puts its· directional on, a1;1d drives up .. But at the last instant, it speeds up, drives past me ten yards, and picks up a happily chortling Bill Bennett. She sat alone in the College Center, leafing through a psychology text and a mail order catalog, licking her fingers to tum the pag~. Only a few nearby tables were occupied, so eavesdropping and other social-espionage tactics wouldn't be to.o great a problem. ;'What's the worst that could happen? She could call you a fascist swine and send you on your way. At least you11 have conquered your fear. Go on up and ask her ... \ I told myself forcefully. It was performed in a textbook manner, as if Federal Rules of Civil Procedure had stipulated precisely how to ask a girl out to din:ner. It couldn't have been better performance. \But I'm sorry, what was it you said you bad to do Friday night? I understand ... but, I'm not quite sure I heard what you said.\ \Oh it's just a banquet for The Not So Top Ten List With Only Nine Listings 1 ) Saab 900 turbo - roadblock for run-away 18 wheelers. 2) Idol - hood ornament for a really big car. · 3) The Ginko - Sawed-up and used as arromatic paneling in Presmo's office. 4) Gravel. Gerties -· meeting place for the Altiance to Ban Harley Riders from the Nations Highways. 5) Library - National Center for Insomnia Control. Tropical temperatures and hypnotic blowing sound of ventilation system insure than even insomniacs get a. good nights 6 ) ssleepb. b' . ~- . aa · tur · o - crushed up, as a ballast in ships. 7) Student Center. ---- convention center for Mall Builders of America. 8) G. Gordon Liddy - ground-up and taken by the meek to insure tha they prevail and by the ethical to allow them to get ahead. 9) Squirrels Locked into 1000 tiny treadmills, the power source for Union's new electric generating plant. former Education Secretaries.\ great deal about a personality if I ·was . finally. in the \Education secretaries.\ you pick out one piece of mail limelight. 1:-ights and cameras \Yes ... Bill Bennett?\ at a time or just snatch up the on me~ tape recorders going, \Bill Bennett. Right.\ whole bundle at once. lUllS. · microphone in front of me. I, · I sit down with my dessert in postcards, and .s.uddenly., exp<>un.ded at great lengtll with· front of the. TV. It's· news time._ elation! Ed McMahon says, intellectual jar:gon ·that was · the happiest time oftlie day. · \You may already have won a beyood repr:oach. I could feer·~ \T. da th tl' h m.i11iort dollars. That's tight~ th dr. . 1 . . . . . . .... •·d ... o · . y · e spo • 1g . t was on you! Mr ~ William .Bennett.\. . e ~ · ena rn pumpmg m~1 e; .: . America's elementary .schools/' Mi. Bennett\ Mr. Bennett 7 .. me. ~ can.~s~~e the Amenc!W'. , . Tom Brokaw muttered, \as. Can't r even get my own·juOk: pC;lople that:~·· S~dde?ly, there : . . Education Secret~y William mail? · · · .1s a gr.ea~ distract.ton JUSt ~own~ Bennett met With a 5th grade \Excuse me tnyth •. .I mean~ . t;he com.dor, Peopl~ ~egm !D<. \· class in Billings, Montana.\ miss..:\ g~ther m a . sem~cuC'le In Oh no. ,;Yes, sir\ she J;espoaded. earnest.. The reporte~s . . \Hi kiddies!\ the beaming giggling. . , sufounding my pJ.!i~on begm Water was warm, soap - lots of it, but as l pulled the handle for the paper towels nothing happened. \Aww I exclaimed loudly and crassly, \WhG ·took· the last paper towel?\ Secretary exclaimed. \Hello Mr. Secretary!\ the students squealed in sheerjoy.. I proceeded to watch M:F. Bennett squeeze into an elementary school seat,. remove his jacket, and lecture the class on trapezoids. I opened the mailbox slowly, cautiously, pondering. the philosopbical implications of mail and its applications to the university. I wasn't looking forward ·to receiving that godawful gift subscription someone sent me, gee thanks. Could be \occupant\ tnail or \boxholder.\ I think it reveals a \Do you haye·any copies .of to ade away, bac~mg away last month's Commentary .still. from .me and turmng. to. the left?\ I queiied. . , . . . , new tssu~. 'The cameras back. \Uiilm'••· I ·believe, the last·. awa~. from. me,. tlle. report~rs. one just w~nt out the ·doot Sir- holdin~ t~en hands_ m th~ cur., .... - that. ge_ntleman .. .the:re and ~~~g ~t me, sheepishly . purchased it.\'lt was a long, -.astftosay, s~~· wefound slow tum to the door, but ther-e a. be~ter story: . I am left he was. standing halfway f1:1 the stan~g alo~e ~n a ·now darlt door and half out.--holding c~mdor • amtd htte~ and ~dy Commentary up next to bis wrappers, y~s~day s Waslnng- face--Willliun Bennett. · ~on Post drifttng down .the hall I noted to myself wh.at a m the breeze. . . clean facility this rest room I sa~nter down the hall t~ the happened to be. Perhaps 1 massive . and rambu,ncuo~s should dine here more ()[ten. crowd gathered at the oppos1te Water was warm, soap--lots of end. ~eporters are practically it, but as I pulled the handle for crawling on to? ·Of each other paper towels, nothing to hear what thts pers?n ~as to happened. \Awww-'' I say. Asthe beads sh1f~ m the exclaimed loudly and crassly, crowd, I can see ~he ft~r~ at \who took the last paper the center ~f attentiOn: Brillta~t towel?\ The last paper towel, ca!ll~ra, hghts ,twmkle. m in a crumpled state, landed in Wilham B-ennetts eye, as ~e the waste bin next to me. respo!lds t.o a reporters ''~''1·1: . B tt . . 1 d questton w.1th a humor. ous n 1 .. tam enne sm 1 e , . . · 'l d . · k · nodded his head to me, ana qmp •. a s~m e, an a wm m strode out. my .difectJ.on. .Safety and Security:· The Year In Photos Paul Mansnica recruits for·neX:t yearis campus ~ecu A security job at Union nas its fring.e benefits such as this luxurious company car. \Tu~a Surprise again?\ \ Mealtime at Alcatraz or just West College? . -· Safety al)d Security's infamous. \undesireables\ finally reveal themselves to the college community.

i ! . DISTORDIENSIS D-DA¥,. 1989 EEK · · Schedule of Ev~nts: T~u .. r,s.d·ay, . June 8th llilorie o tat ion Questions? CoU Rob D. x4196 --Cost is '$5- Featuring-- Food, Soda, the ToastJe-O's, and free beer from a beer truck! -Buses wlll start leaving irom the CoUe.ge CentPr at 4 p.m. Event ends ·at 9. p.m·. _ Sign up for the Boo;ze Cruise! Fri,day, _Ju.ne·_ 9th . Booze Cruise (Otl the Hudson) · -Buses leave from the CoHege Center at 12 p.m. · . , ------Return ·by 4 .p. m·. that day -$15 price includes hors d'oeuvres, beer, soda, bussing·, and D.J. ----Beer and Wings return to the Skellar -Cash/Sates basis Saturday, ·J-une. 10_th · ----Party wJth the Ctasse~ of 1988 and 1.989 · -Free Beer and Wings -8- 11 p.m. Page 3

.Page 4 DlSTORDIENSIS D·DA.Y, 1989 FEATURES Where Does The Money. Go? By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Where o' where has our parents money gone o' where o' where can it be? And where o' where is it going? How much more can it be? A hundred here a thousand there. Money, money everywhere, but in our pockets, purses and bank accounts. Ten dollars for a cap, ten dollars for a gown, well worth it though! You don't want to stick out like a sore thumb in the procession . · of soon to be real worlders on graduation day, so basically you got no choice. You got no choice!!! Six bucks for a tuna sandwich and some chips at West. Another seven if you lose your genuine paper meal card and seventeen if you lose . the plastic casing. Ten for your lost key and who knows how much for the valued Union I.D~ The hole made by a thumbtack in the top left band corner of your closet ceiling, seventeen dollars, just give them a twenty they will take care of the change, the extra three should cover the mud stain on the \clean white\ linoleum floor of your dorm room. $1,352 per course times thirty- six. $810 a term for housing, which isn't guaranteed or available. An additional fifty cents for every slice of tomato on that sandwich at The Dutch Hollow, five cents per spririkle on your ice c~ cone, and ten cents. a .cup please~ \That will be one-hundredand twenty-five _ dollars for each and every studio art course you take here at Union. Thank you_\ The seventeen required books for HistQry 207 will cost you $207, but the one· te-xt for Chern. 10 will cost a mere $6 (times 10) .. Oh I'm sorry we L forgot to inform' you that curtains don't come with the rooms, $25 a piece, yes they are required. Mom and Dad yc)U 'te not shelling out quite enough yet so could you please fork over another $15 a tenn to send me an exam box full of food that will rot JR.Y- teeth away. And next year we will probably have to pay to use bathrooms on campus, probably have to just like we do at Grand Central Station. Seniors just bec~use you no longer have to pay $18,000 a year in order to qualify to pay anotPer $5~000 in \additional expenses\ doesn't ~ean the bills will stop coming your way, you are what Union thrives on now, ALUMNI. So what exactly does the- $20,000 include. I quess next years' $2~000 increase must finaliy cover the· cost of ·curtains right? Culmlnat. • i.on . . '· · By SCOOP SARWIN J • ' ' Mr. World is very busy. Years ago, kids of all ages made his acquaincince. They were known as child laborers. Due to increasing demand to meet Mr. World, kids were put on a waiting list known as Mrs. College. Mrs. College has many faces. One can enlist in Mrs. Junior College, Mrs. Normal College, Mrs. Schmed College or even Mrs. Professional College. It all depends on how much prepping one needs before being introduced to Mr; World. For those of you having difficulty placing yourself, we here have chosen Mrs. Union College. In this land of waiting, Mrs. College p·tesents us ·with obstacles similar to those that Mr. World poses. Here in Mrs. Union College. the majority of us have money problems (tuition). Our existence is also challenged with job stress (exams). However undesirable these conditions appear to be, the masses opt to be detained in Scherieetady. Consequently, Mrs. Union College as well as numerous other Mrs. Colleges have had to create their own waiting list. One waiting list goes by its generic name, the other,. High School R.G. Is relief in sight?? What consellation is there to being on a waiting list of a Solution to the housing problem. waiting list? If we were just standing on line here, one would see a lot of cutting in line, as well as a. lot of burt feet. Therefore, it must be resolved that we are· in some way benefiting from the wait. Like we are .taught to do, this author asked elders their opinion of Mr. Wottd. Some commented that he was boring while found him interesting. Ironically, their opinion-of Mr. World and Mrs. College was identical. Interestingly enough, Mr~ World and Mrs. College are united under one; the institution of marriage. O.K. you missed the point. It's a love story and we're the products of it. Only $883,1 Fees: Admission and continuation dep.osit. , • , •.•..•• , ... , •• •· .•..•...••..........•.. $20() $./(}(} wifJ be applied against thejirst·tenir bill. The remaining$!()() deposit is tetained llnlil waduation or withdrawal. . Appli¢atioli fees (nonrefundable) 4-Year Undergraduate ......... , .............. , .............. , , •.• : .· ..•.. $35 6-Year and 7- Year Accelerated Programs ..•..•............•..•...•......•.. $35· Collection .fee ..•. .' .....• , ...•.•.••..•.•••.•.......... : ..............••... $10-25 Afee !'/ $10.for the jim check •. SIS for rhe second check. and $25/or {he third check I'L'i/1 be charged for ead1 rhet'k returnt:'dfor insr,~fficienr funds . Graduation fee ...... , ......•. _ ..... , ..•...•.•.......•.................. , .... •'·. S60· Group programs abr.oad lndut!es tuition. room, board;. and the·cosi a/required immunizations ai/mmisrered·by ·I he C allege Health Servire, hrri.I!'.\<Ciudes transportation. Deposits are reqi1ired fbrrhrs!! programS 10 T(!Set\'1! a.p/at:e in the group. Summer M~icirte 'Program ......... , .. , ............................ $6,380 . lsra~I.Program .•. , •.•..• , •••.•.•.•...••.•.....•........••....•..•.•..... $4.260· · All other prqgr~ms' ........................ , ........................ , ..... $5.490 4bo~toty feel>(per course) •. 4 .... , .. ,, .. , • , , ......... , .............. $10 to .156 Required by V(lrivus. cour3,(\J for. ma!trif1/s and s!lpplies .consumed l..;ltc f~ ..• , . , ............... - ....................... , •.. , .............. , .... $2S AS,Sessedfor.failw:e to pay hifb; pr~reyiJter. or regiJter on sche~ Malteo.Up .or ~pecial exa!Tlination. term ~Xli.Jllinadon •.••••••.... , , , ••. , •..•... , ... :525 Or_i9lta:tion fee 1 . · Entering F~hlll~n Fee ..•. _ ...•...•.• , •...•.•.. , ... , ..................... 5100 Transler Fee ................. · ........ , ... , • , ...... ., •.••.. , • , ·: • ......... $8!J Charge.d to all new students.j'resh,men qnd ti'artsfors; to rov\ costs of the orimtatic>n program, . . . Student acti\•ityJee ............ ~ .... , . , ..•. , ..• · ......... .' ................... $138 One-third ($¥.6) pfi.l'able each term to co\•er cost uf stuifenr a<:/il•ities. Thtse fund; 11re allocotct/ltJ .~iudenl org(lni::qrions fcommillets by the .rtUdelJI governrnem. Payment iS. · requiied·ofallfu/f.time mattidllaied undergradtiqte .ttuiknis. · .. Getrid of moles. gop/Jet$ ond qfher bur.rowing pt!Sis; With •. • Mole-Ex VI Just $59!!2* . . . *But.readthe adwran even bett~ decJ1 fOR FASTEST SERVICE, ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 621-12()3 58.95 lor three. Add !iales tax forCAdelivery. Yo11 have 31J.day .return and one yeat warranty. 24 honTS a day, ? d;>ys a week Please give order #100SJ;:!IS3.lf yC>U prefer, mail check or card autlioclzation and, expiration. We need daytime phone for all orde~ a~d !~sUing. bank for charge orde,.. We can.~\>t' shLp W11hout this. UI'Siinsurance: 55.95 for one Mole·E:( VI. .nrer•itls ia1 Towhsend !?tree!, Sah francisco. CA 94107 .FLAGS POLES AND ACCESSORIES CALL. OR WRrrE FOR FREE CA'OO.OG P.o.eox 1s2TsM MIDLOTHIAN, VA 23113 {81}4}744-5862 G,n,R• · eid .. · Co. ANY KIND ANYSIZ£ RESIDENTIAL INStiTUTIONAL NAUTICAL HISTORIC- CUstOM STATES - NATIONS ·HOWTOSEND.A GOURMET. CHOCOLATE CAKE Air Expressed to any·address in the U.S. i~ 48 hours or less. BAKED FRESH DAILY . A rich, moist, Datk Chocolate CSke. Four layers high, \\ith a most delicious,. Dark Chocolate Fudge Icing, Crushed Walnuts decorate the sides. serves 15 to zo guests. ITALIAN CREAM CAKE THIS COLDEN. LIGHT G01.Jit:MET CAKE. WITH PECANS AND COCONUT THROt:GH· OUT. IS EUROPEA:'Il-ST\'LED. 9 .. iN DIAMETER, 3 TALl LAYERS. AND SER\'ES I$ TO 20 GUI!STS. THE CREA~I\'' CREAM CHEESE ICING IS FULL OF PECANS. EACH GOURMET CAKE IS $34.9_5 COMPLETE ·• FULL\' GUARANTEED tO ARRI\'E IN PEiU\Ect CONDlTION AND TO BE ' : THE BEST CAKE \'OUHA\'E EVER tASTED OR \'OtlR MONEY BACK. CALL TOLL FREE 1 .. 800·338-7840 . SEND A CAKE INC. • 1855 38th S1'RitE'r • BOULD~R, CO 80302

DlSTORDlENSl$ D·DAY, 1989 Page s 1. . FEATURES So I'm A Sexist? By KRISTIE A.RNOLD I .am a sexist. So long ago, I -was referred to as sach on the grounds that \most humor is a form of prej.udice •. '' I saw a great deal of students at the comedian show on Saturday night, inch..!ding my accuser. I take this as a sign that in the last reaches of seniorhood, this person and others bave finally decided to lose the thesis grouchies and lighten up. However, I find it difficult to resist the urge to humor this soul one final time. I admit it, I am a seJdst. Boys are superior beings. They are stronger, smar.ter {factually proven to maintain higher SAT scores}, less sensitive, and most certainly do not suffer from the hormonally induced distress that girls do. Girls are obviously weaker, (manual labor and fighting on the battlefront are out .of t:he question for those of the female persuasion). Girls are generally less intellectually active than boys (has there ever been a female president? Huh?) But girls are undeniably mote sensitive. They are remarkably more sensitive to the needs of w;hining children, and to knowing when the toast is Durning in the kitchen. Girls will never fait to cry ten times as often as they normally would during PMS. Boys do not cry at all. Boys ,should always b~ the ones to ask girls out on dates. Those possessing male attributes should send flowers and candy and girls should aways giggle in response to such romantic favors, but accept them humbly. Girls, if they attend college, should surely be liberal arts majors. They should alsa be required to take plenty of psychology courses to a·id in the d.evelnpment of psychologically healthy offspring. Proposed Freshman Preceptorial Reading List I .. ' . L· ' :t '- ,, j ~•ltj After becoming a sexist, my view of life has been irreversibly altered. No more job interviews for me. I am going to return home, wed the first boy who buys me roses and sends me truffle brownies. I will tben proceed to break the Guiness record for the number of children that can be given birth to before one reaches the tender age of thirty. My fidelities will he to my husband, of course, dir.ty diapers, meatloaf twice a week, and Santa Barbara every day at 3:00p.m. I have one further comment to make that everyone who attended Camp Union should he able to relate to: IF MY DAUGHTER EVER SPORTED A SKIRT THAT SHORT, SHE WOULD BE LOCKED IN A ROOM ·WITHOUT A KEY. To prove that I am, in fact, not a sexist, IF MY SON WORE A SKIRT THAT SHORT, HE WOULD BE IN THE ROOM WITH HER. Unidentified senior waits for exam results. He was overheard saying, \I already sent out my commencement announcements.\ Union College Alcohol Use - Social Events Policy '89 . By THE STUDENT'S BODY ' ' Private Kvents: Alcohol may be served (and .brought) to t11e event if: ;_attendance exceeds the nurn l>er of 9rganization members by at least 250 people or the number of guests can be calculated based on multiplying the number of members by the number of kegs that are available for \late night.\ -non-alcoholic btwerages may not be permitted at any ·event. Alc<>holic beverages must be provided for people at least seven times the proportion of under-age Schenectady high school students and Doids. -the event may not be confined to indoor facilities w.- :-:',. ~ ~· ~ ........, ·' •:/·:..;; Expected a,ttendance at graduation unless weather permits. Public· ·E:vent-s: ·· ',':, Alcohol may be served and bmught to the event if: -attendance is open to all students and \A Plus Big Shots\ are available to provide individuals with an adequate supply of an alcoholic beverage. -the alcohol served is not a domestic brand. -people expect to defend friends in. raging, drunken stupors. For All Events With 20 or More Participants: -the college cannot be notified via the social notification form unless Union College administrators participate in all \boat races\ five minutes before any social event ' ... . .. -all indoor events must s\lqlass .tbe tixne,, a.lloca~~d by security on weekdays. Rav, the security guard must be forced to funnel five beers before entering any event -Student activities and dorm council funds may be used only to purchase alcct.ol or outstanding quality. \Meister Chow\ cannot be bought with these funds. -Open containers of alcoholic beverages must be disposed outside any fraternity before entering, so the physical plant has something to do. ** Note **: The form for fighting may be obtained at the Dean of Students Office - College Center, room 306-and must be brought to the Security and Safety Office for approval. ..

Page 6 DlSTORDlENSIS D-DAY, 1989 ...... .. ' A ,. . ~ ~~ rbirnsis Founded at Union College 1877 --- Thank· You, Thank You, Thank Yo·u. Once again Distordiensis hits the stands. However, it is only through the efforts of our tireless staff that this year's final edition comes to you, our faithful and numerous readers. Those of · us returning to continue creating this fine literary 1 , masterpiece would like to take this opportunity to 1 acknowledge and thank the seniors who are leaving us for the real world. · First we would like to thank those seniors who are not editors, but write for us unfalteringly. It is your interest in the paper that helps keep other's interest in the paper. Even during your spring term of your final year in college you've found the time to get an article in by that deadline that we underclassmen face every week. Thank you. Of course, the writers would have no one to go to if not for our editors. You, too, could have escaped as spring term seniors have a right to, but every week you were here. Thank you. Our sports section, although returning to the hands of one who is perfectly competent, will certainly never be the same without our Sports Editors. We will miss Scott Adams and his awesomely articulated alliterations·, and the . \storehouse of knowledge\ Greg Goetz. We regret that there is not ·enough space to print the top 10 reasons for why these two are the funniest guys this side of the Mississippi. We thank Commentaries Editor Stephanie Jaryna for her prompt pages and continual efforts to improve Tuesday night pizza. Steph's smoke-house partner international fashion plate Anthee Carassavas did a remarkable job bringing us the world every week. Katie Boyd and Cameron Kenny dedicated more than enough time to the Arts & . Entertainment section, predicting the future and briefing us. Without Cameron and her unrestrained pizza consumption our paranoia will soon return. (We'll miss Ma:x, too). Marc Haughton's contribution to the Features section as an editor and writer with a cynical intellect will be missed. The Science and Technology pages face another turn-over when Kevin. Gardner bikes his way down the isle at Commencement. Kevin created an audience within our environment. Even Kevin Irland graced us with his presence his.final year at Union. The creation of Copy Editors brought him up here to the office to spend hours on the phone making corrections. The people to get personal with, Kelley Park and Lisa Marzilli, willlea~e the Campus news section forever (along with Berke Breathed) after having done a great job with the section over the past year. Lori Kaplan and Jessica Adelson mastered the art of bringing in money. As Advertising Editors, they and their staff generated revenues that no other club . or organization sees. Business Managers Robin Jacobson and Beth Goodsmith saw to it that the 12,000 dollars owed to us for space assigned to advertising actually came in. · Finally it is with utmost gratitude and sincerity that we send off Tina ·Hon.g and Fiona Shukri, former Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis. Under their guidance, their successors ate able to continue bringing this honored periodical to the college community. We would ·like to thank our readers, as wefl, \Where as a man may have noon audience. Nought helpeth it to tellen his sentence\--Cbauc~r. Thank . you everyone. LETTERS During the past year, we at Concordiensis have received a veritable plethora of exciting letters. In this final issue, these .exalted letters of importance shall be recognized. Distordiensis presents: The Editorial Awards The Editorial Taken Least Seriously: Union Co11eg~ is ·a Disgrace to the United States.\ This leiter written by· Matt Trainor '92 in the May 11 issue comments on Union's disrespect towards the U.S. flag. · The college obviously held it in high regard. This past Mondny, the flag was at full mast despite it w~s Memorial Day ... The Most Success,ful Editorial(s) Of The Year: ~Stolen Skulls Degrade Institution\ and '\Skull Caper Ends\ both written by Professor Tobiessen. This is a The letter of the year and the only one worth listen~g to: ALUMINUM IS NOTT RIGHT To the Editors: I'm amused by Frederick V. Bronner's plea for the destruction of the Nott Memorial. It would be The editors · of Concordiensis thank Union College and its students for continuing to provide us with interesting things to write about. Keep up the good work. ERRATUM Concordiensis · apologizes to Jessica Sheinman for · · having printed her article on Cabaret as a letter to the. editor. It was meant for the Features section of last week's paper. fortunate sto:r:y from the editorial pages. In the Jan. 19 issue a letter states, \Not only is it expensive to replace these items, but it encourages us to cater to the lowest ,common denomi.Qator of student conduct when we plan our ~departmental displays.\ The saga ended when Prof. Tobiessen wrote back in the April 6 issue notifying th.e · Union community {still sitting on the edge of their seats) that the missing skulls bad. been returned to their proper homes. in the department. The Most Stressful Situation Portrayed In A..n Editorial: \Parents Weekend Conflict with Exam\ David Sachor '92 , wrote in to C on('ordlensis May 11letting th.e community know of his and his class' extenu~ting and, insuffetable situation. Well, the staff of D'istordiensjS sincerely hopes you and your entire class passed the exam. blasphemous to tear down the most remarkable edifice on the Union College campus. In addition, the Nott is a ·national landmark, and as such one would not. be permitted to tear it down. Furthermore, if that fine building is perceived as an eyesore as Mr .. Bronner would lead one to believe, an option that would be more acceptable is aluminum sidinffi~ Aluminum siding is both attractive and affordable. Please The ~ditorlal Readers Were Most Relieved To Read: \Dicks·on' s Eraterpity Challenge .Ends'' - Chidsey Dickson '88 Octobet 20 issue. Enough said. The Most U~appetizi:ng Editorial Of The Year: \Hairnets Can't Catch Everything\ - Michael Glowak ''89 wrote in;..- ·to Concordien:sis April 27 \ .•. ,if one or two er even ten are dirty, that's not.a bad number,\ in reference to the dishes the student body uses at West Dining Hall. The 'Editorial Wbich Was Titled By Themselves: \Delta Upsilon asks 'Whose campus is this anyway'?\ l'he Brothers of t)elta Upsilon primed in the April issue of Concor<J.iensis; the question was never answered .. Now do you understand why the editors make up the headlines? keep this option in mind. Aluminum siding is the right choice! · Sincerely, Joe PascoreRi, '63 Pacorelli Aluminumn Siding Co. Reprint from April 27 issue of Concord·iensis.

PagE 6 DISTORDJENSIS D-DAY, 1989 ... .... ' ... ~ ·~ ~ ,.p rbtrnsis Founded at Union College 1877 --- Thank You, Thank You, Thank You. Once again Distordiensis hits the stands. However, it is only through the efforts .of our tireless staff that this year's final edition comes to you, our faithful and numerous readers. Those of us returning to continue creating this fine literary ' masterpiece would like to take this opportunity to' acknowledge and thank the seniors who are leaving us for the real world. First we would like to thank those seniors who are not editors, but write for us unfalteringly. It is your interest in the paper that helps keep other's interest in the paper. Even during your spring term of your final year in college you've found the time to get an article in by that deadline that we underclassmen face every week. Thank you. Of course, the writers would have no one to go to if not for our editors. You, too, could have escaped as spring term seniors have a right to, but every week you were here. Thank you. Our sports section, although returning to the hands of one who is perfectly competent, will certainly never be the same without our Sports Editors. We will miss Scott Adams and his awesomely articulated alliterations, and the \storehouse of knowledge\ Greg Goetz. We regret that there is not enough space to print the top 10 reasons for why these two are the funniest guys this side of the Mississippi. We thank Commentaries Editor Stephanie Jaryna for her prompt pages and continual efforts to improve Tuesday night pizza. Steph's smoke-house partner international fashion plate Anthee Carassavas did a remarkable job bringing us the world every week. Katie Boyd and Cameron Kenny dedicated more than enough time to the Arts & Entertainment section, predicting the future and briefing us. Without Cameron and her unrestrained pizza consumption our paranoia will soon return. (We'll miss Max, too). Marc Haughton's contribution to the Features section as an editor and writer with a cynical intellect will be missed. The Science and Technology pages face another turn-over when Kevin Gardner bikes his way down the isle at Commen·cement. Kevin created an audience within our environment. Even Kevin Irland graced us with his presence his final year at · Union. The creation of Copy Editors brought him up here to the office to spend hours on the phone . making corrections. The people to get personal · with, Kelley Park and Lisa Marzilli~ will leave the Campus news section forever (along with Berke Breathed) after having done a great job with the section over the past year. Lori Kaplan and Jessie a Adelson mastered the art of bringing in money. As Advertising Editors, they and their staff generated revenues that no other club or organization sees. Business Managers Robin Jacobson and Beth (ioodsmith saw to it that the 12,000 dollars owed to us for space assigned to advertising actually . camem. LETTERS During the past year, we at Concordiensis !~ave received a veritable plethora of exciting letters. In this final issue, these exalted letters of importance shall be recognized. Distordiensis presents: The Editorial Awards The Editorial Taken Least Seriously: Union College is·a Disgrace to the United States.\ This letter written by Matt Trainor '92 in the May 11 issue comments on Union's disrespect towards the U.S. flag. The college obvious:ly heM it in high regard. This past Monday, the flag was at ful:l mast despite it W<J.S Memorial Day ... The Most Successful Editorial{s) Of The Year: ~Stolen Skulls Degrade Institution\ and \Skull Caper Ends\ both written by Professor Tobiessen. This is a The letter of the year and the only one worth listening to: ALUMINUM IS NOTT RIGHT To the Editors: I'm amused by Frederick V. Bronner's plea for the destruction of the Nott Memorial. It would be The editors of Concordiensis thank Union College and its students for continuing to provide us with interesting things to write about. Keep up the good work. Finally it is with utmost gratitude and sincerity that we send off Tina Hong and Fiona Shukri, former Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis. Under their guidance, their successors are able to continue bringing this honored periodical to the college community. We would like to thank our readers, as well, \Where as a man may have noon audience. Nought • helpeth it to tellen his sentence\ -Chaucer. Thank . · you everyone. ERRATUM Concordiensis apologizes to Jessica Sheinman for having printed her article on Cabaret as a letter to the editor. It was meant for the Features section of last week's paper. fortunate story from the editorial pages. In the Jan. 19 issue a letter states, \Not only is it expensive to replace these items, but it encourages us to cater to the lowest common denominator of student conduct when we plan our departmental displays.\ The saga ended when Prof. Tobiessen wrote back in tne April 6 issue notifying the Union community (still sitting on the edge of their seats) that the missing skulls had been retuniled to their proper homes in the department. The Most Stressful Situation Portrayed In An Editorial: \Parents Weekend Conflict with Exam\ David Sacher '92 wrote in to Concordiensi:s May 11 letting the community know of his and his class' extenuating and insufferable situation. Well, the staff of Distordiensis sincerely hopes you and your entire class passed the exam. blasphemous to tear down the most remarkable edifice on the Union College campus. In addition, the Nott is a national landmark, and as such one would not be permitted to tear it down. Fuitherrnore, if that fine building is perceived as an eyesore as Mr. Bronner would lead one to believe, an option that would be more acceptable is aluminum siding. Aluminum siding is both atu\active and affordable. Please The Editorial Readers Were Most Relieved To Read: \Dickson's Fraternity Challenge Ends\ - Chidsey Dickson '88 October 20 issue. Enough said. The Most Unappetizing EdHoriai Of The Year: \Hairnets Can't Catch Everything\- Michael Glowak '89 wrote in to Concordiensis April 27 \ .. .if one or two or even ten are dirty, that's not a bad number,\ in reference to the dishes the student body uses at West Dining Hall. The Editorial Whkh Was Titled By Themselves: \Delta Upsilon asks 'Whose campus is this anyway'?\ The Brothers of Delta Upsilon printed in the April issue of Co:ncordiensis; the question was never answered. Now do you understand why t:he editors make up the headlines? keep this option in mind. Aluminum siding is the right choice! Sincerely, Joe Pascarelli, '63 Pacorelli Aluminumn Siding Co. Reprint from April 27 issue of Con cordiensis.

IN,DIAN. BLAN\KET · Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90, And Cholce of Slue or Brown. Auth·entlc Indian Design· Each One Personally Blessed By Wise· Owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creel< · Reservation S1SO. Value For Only 539. Postpaid Satisf:a:ctlon Guaranteed, The only Blanket Offered To The Pubtlc Blessed BY Indian Medicine Ma[l . Your Order Provldes- HelP urgently Needed B:Y .Trit:>e, Please Write: Chief Wise Owl, .or-owning cr~k Reservation, R#2 Box 108'. Maxton. N.C. 28364 Saxton, Porter, Speir Sch~larships . All Union students who are accepted and definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obta.ined in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to Prof. Board in the Pol. Sci. Dept. by July 1' 1989; I would like to thank the following people for doing another terrific job. at Camp Union '89. Bopker Erkine ·Terry Ainsworth Jason Gabree Mindy Marshall Angie Marra · Shirley Pelicone Roseanna Iuliano Jesse Borst Marg~ Gregiore Shawn Jurgenson Tdm. Cickocki Frank Ivliano Sandy Marshall Chris B.ensinger Mari~ Iuliano Dawn Chiormitro Dave Kolakoff Michele Sloan BethOksa Ann Higgins Francesa Iuliano Andy Appel Tish D'Agostio Sean Scales Micah Gabree Theresa Vira Steve Clark Henry Barbie Alex Chiv Joe O'Conr.~:or T.J. Miller Thanks again for another fine job! Special thanks to: Physical Plant, Security, and S.~ent Activities. Joe DiCarlo Janet R. Gray Richard Baia ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (518): 237-9012 ROI has e>ecellent part-time a,nd full-time positions a.vailable w<>rking with adults with developmental disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting. Work with a professional team while providing assistance and supervision in the are~s of d.aily living skills, sociallzation and recreation. Flexible hollrs on weekday evenings; overnigh1s and weekends. Earn between $5;50 and $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday banus incentive (part-titne wages). Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus full · · benefits. START YOUR CAREER IN HUMAN SERVlCES AND COME WORK WITH THE BEST!!! f:!OI offer$ a sh~;~ttle serv.ic·e from Mo convenient locations .. Call for ··information. Residenllal Opportunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service Agency located in the Albany area. Residential Qpporfunities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, N'f 1.204 7 (518) 237--9012 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ELSE'S EXPENSE Yes, Juniors, even if you missed last Tuesday's meeting, it is not too late 10 express interest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP. U you win, the Thomas J. Watson FoundaUon pays you $14,000.00 to GO ANYWHERE and DO ANYTHING for the year after you graduate. . And it's not hard to apply- just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of refere11ce, due at the beg_inning of. Fall term. YOUR ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years, more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON, that is better than one in twenty. (Compare that to the odds in the New York State lottery!) If you have any interest at all in letting someone else pay for a YEAR OF TRAVEL, please bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Klein in the Economics Department (SS 109). A simple phone call will do (x6056), or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No salesperson will call. · •••••••••••••••••••&•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••·••\'•·•••••••••••••••••••• ••.,•••••••••••••••• YES :1 WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME TO 1RAVEL ANYWHI:!RE AND DO ANYTHING FOR A YEAR NAME::, ______ ~_BOX# __ ~-----~ GRADUATION YEAR: MAJOH(S) ____ ~--- (Clip and return to D. Klein, E:.conomics Department, Campus.)

DISTORDJ£NSIS D-DAY, 1989 Page 7 t~( INDI,AN BLANKET Special Offer FreE Bl:esslng Size 72X90, And Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentic Indian Design Each one Pe.rsonalty Blessed By Wise • owl, Medicine Man And Ch~ief Drowning creek , Reservation $150. Value For Only $39. Postpaid · · Satisfaction Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Pub:llc Blessed By Indian , Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help Urgently Needed By Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Owl, Drowning creek Reservation, R#2 Box 108, Maxton, N.C6 28364 Saxton, Porter, Speir Scholarships All Union students who are accepted and definitely planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. Applications can be obtained in the Political Science Dept. Office, and should be returned to Prof .. Board in the Pol. Sci. Dept. byJuly 1, 1989. I would like to thank the following people for doing another terrific job at Camp Union '89. Booker Erkine Terry Ainsworth Jason Gabree Mindy Marshall Angie Marra Shirley Pelicone Roseanna Iuliano Jesse Borst Tom Cickocki Frank I vliano Sandy MarshalL Chris Bensinger Maria Iuliano Dawn Chiormitro Dave Kolakoff Michele Sloan Beth Oksa Ann lliggins Francesa Iuliano Andy Appel Tish D'Agostio Sean Scales Micah Gabree Lefs have a 4th Conseeutive Marge Gregiore Shawn Jurgenson Theresa Vira Steve Clark Henry Barbie Alex Chiv Joe O'Connor T.J. Miller win for the most powerful and influencial Thanks again for another fine job! Student \ Special thanks to: Physical Plant, Security, and Student Activities. Joe DiCarlo Janet R. Gray Richard Baia Organization on campus .. 'Express it with Flowers·' 96 Jay s·treet NA~~E$(:APE Og$!GNS ICor. <>!Jay ~ l~ibtrty St4. ·!:i ::·· . Sthtne(tady, 12305 ATTENTION STUDENTS!! ARE YOU GRADUATING SOON!!! (513) 237-9012 ROI has excelle11t part-time a,nd full-time positions available working with adults with developmental disabilities in a residential and day treatment setting_ Work with a f>rofessional team while providing assistance and supervision in the a~e~3 of d_aily living skills, socialization alild recreation. Flexible hours on weekday evenings, overnights and weekends. Earn between $5_50 and $6.25 pwer hour plus holiday bonus incentive (part-time wages). Full-time salaries start at $13,500, plus full benefits. START YOUR CAREER IN HUMAN SERVICES AND COME WORK WITH THEBESTI!! ROI offers a slluttle service from two convenient locations. Call for .information. Residential Opp,>rtunities, Inc. is a not for profit Human Service AgEncy located in the Albany area. Residential Opportuflities, Inc. 73 Congress St. Cohoes, NY 12047 (518) 237-9012 SEE THE WORLD AT SOMEONE ELSE'S EXPENSE Yes, Juniors, even if you missed last Tuesday's meeting, i,t is not too late to express inte.rest in applying for a WATSON TRAVELLING FELLOWSHIP. If you win, the Thomas J. Watson Foundation pays you $14,000.00 to GO ANYWHERE and DO AN\YTHING for the year after you graduate. And it's not hard to apply- just a 4-6 page essay, and two letters of reference. due at the beginning of Fall term. YOUR ODDS OF WINNING ARE EXCELLENT, as these things go. Over the past few years, more than 5% of Union's applicants have WON, that is better than one in twenty. (Compare that to the odds in the New York State lottery!} If yoeu have any interest at all in letting someone else pay for a YEAR OF TRAVEL, please bring yourself to the attention of Prof. Klein in the Economics Department (SS 1 09). A simple phone call will do (x6056), or better yet, clip the coupon and return it to Prof. Klein. No salesperson will call. · I I I U I I • I I I 1 1 1 1 I 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 o 1 1 11 o 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 o 1 1 1 1 0 1 1 • 1 I 1 1 1 I. 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 o 1 1 o 01 1 1 o 1 1 1 1 I o 1 1 o I o I I I I I I I I I o I o o o I o 0 I o I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I YES I WANT TO LET SOMEONE ELSE PAY FOR ME TO TRAVEL AJI! YWHERE AND DO ANYTHING FOR A YEAR NAME: ________ BOX# ________ _ GRADUATION YEAR: MAJOR(S) _______ _ (Clip and return to D. Klein, Economics Department, Campus.) l.

Page 8 DJSTORDIENSIS D-DAY, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Union College Student Gives An End To Socialism In· Greece By EEHTNA SAVASSARAC International Features Editor Socialism with a distorted Papandreou face underwent a major \face lift\ on May 29, as the Greek populace voted to . finally liberate itself from the eight years of corruption and treachery. Carassavas, was asked by its leaders to \help salvage the natiori from the plague of Papandreou socialism.\ The Greek populace was overwhelmed with the return of Anthee Carassavas who had been exiled: for her deliberate attempts to overthrow the Papandreou regime on February 31, 1985. Papandreou: From riches to rags - recuperating from his devastating defeat. New Democracy, the right wing political party, was experiencing great.difficulty in its campaign rally up until two months ago when Union College graduate, Anthee The new prime minister commented that \the 70 to 30 percent victory achieved was indicative of the masses' di·Sgust forPapandreou's naked betray~;tl of the public trust with his minister of orgasmic research.\ WANT 'TO HAVE THIS SPACE FILL.ED-UP? • WRITE F·OR· INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Question of the Week By ANTBEE CARASSAVAS \What would be your International Question of the Week?\ Jason Meshniek '89-''Who is the . shortest rn<>.st petfumed butt sucking whimp on campus?\ Scott Adams I s'-\When searching for computer storage discs do the majority ()f women prefer floppy or hard disc~? · Greg Goetz '89-\Who has the brownest nose on campus?\ Sue Schaefer t~O-\Why can't soft ice · cream be served in a sugar cone?'' Kevin Gardner I s~-''Who is the shortest . butt sucking whimp on campus?\ I I Anthee Carassa-vas '89-''Who is the shortest butt sucking whimp on campus?\ AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI will speak on Commenceme(lt Day Topic: A Generation of Liberals; The Iranian Solution

Page 8 DISTORDIENSIS D-DAY, 1989 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Union College Student Gives An End To Socialism In· Greece By EEHTNA SA VASSARAC International Fea.tures Editor Socialism with a distorted Papandreou face tmderwent a major \face lift\ on May 29, as the Greek populace voted to finally liberate itself from the eight years of corruption and treachery. Carassavas, was asked by its leaders to \help salvage the nation from the plague of PapaRdreou socialism.\ The Greek populace was overwhelmed with the return of Anthee Carassavas who had been exiled for her deliberate attempts to overthrow the Papandreou regime on February 31' 1985. Papandreou: From riches to rags- recuperating from his devasta1ing defeat. New Democracy, the right wing political party, was experiencing great. difficulty in its campaign rally up until two months ago when Union College graduate, Anthee The new prime minister commented that \the 70 to 30 percent victory achieved was indicative of the masses' disgust for Papandreou's naked betrayal of the public trust with his minister of orgasmic research.\ WANT TO HAVE THIS SPACE FILLED-UP? WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Question of the Week By ANTHEE CARASSAVAS \What would be your International Question of the Week?\ Jason Meshnick '89-\Who is the shortest most perfumed butt sucking whimp on campus?\ Scott Adams '89-\When searching for computer storage discs do the majority of women prefer floppy or hard discs? Greg Goetz '89-\Who has the brownest nose on campus?\ Sue Schaefer '90-\Why can't soft ice cream be served in a sugar cone?\ Kevin Gardner '89-\Who is the shortest butt sucking whimp on campus?\ Anthee Carassavas '89-\Who is the shortest butt sucking whimp on campus?\ . ~. -~· ~-~ :;~ .· . . • ... ' . AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI will speak on Commencement Day Topic: A Generation of Liberals; The Iranian Solution ' I tl . ~- ~ I ~ j ; I

DISTORDIENSI$ D-DA.Y, 1989 Page 9 . . ... I ·~·-··CLIP N SAVE····· Be Safe At Graduation ·By DINA SCHW:elTZER Arts .& Crafts Editor Did you ever feel like you're in reverse and parked ona.~teep incline? Well, if you've ever felt like this lts lime to get rolling and Union is going· to make sure you'r,e ready when they are. In fact, all precautions · have been made to he sure you're secure for ·graduation. Over the past school year concern has been mounting about the decorum of some individuals at the Commencement exercises, and in particular the inappropriate behavior of students dUring, the Invocation. This is a mes~ge for those men and .womert who are graduating this June 11. •Graduation is a time for reflection, and a .time to get serious. At this point ill yout career the game is over; Face it- ... there is no fun after Union. In fact, life is going tQ be hell and to help you come to this realization, Union has ensured that ,this year's graduaticn will get you ready for the \real world\ outside. Since last ·year, many restrictions have been made which contribute to the already existing rules forbidding head sways, mouth_ drools, and yawns during conventional ceremonies held outside library plaza. This year it has been announced J:>y the committee on committees that there wiil be no breathing. talking, or public display of affection during graduation. Furthermore, instead of caps and gowns, all graduating seniors must pick . 11Jl their helmets and bullet proof vests at the Veterans' ·Club. Remember this is a precautiQnary. action tl>_ ensure that no ·one gets erroneously -Do you want · to be known? Well make yourself heard in th~ next IDLE ISS'UE Start this summer and· send all Idle entries to Box 666 by Feb. 29, 1999 struck over the he~d by a passing. frisbee or hacky sack. Additionally, all alcoholic beverages will be confiscated by those members on the social committee who will be rn.anning posts during ceremonies at aU enttances of Union College. Furthermore, before and .after commencement, all students will be required to take urinary drug tests to en!lure that no part of the ceremony will be interrupted by raucous revelry. Moreover, if anyone is found fondling private parts or drinking beverages other than water, juice, or milk, one's graduation will be immediately suspended until further notice. Appeals to these decisions will be handled by the Standards Board Committee at a later date. . Remember how you felt blowing you could get a free burger and not get kicked off campus by security because y<>u owned.- your own blue hospital band? Well now Union has taken it a step further to ensure your safety. This year your ticket to . l. graduation is a fluorescent seat belt which all seniors will find in their mail boxes. Accommodating this device, one will fmd a flyer explaining its use and how it is to bee worn. Of course yotl can get ir.tto the ceremonies having it tucked away in your pocket, but once you are in your seat you must put it on immediately. In fact, up.on requst the BSNS (Be Safe Not Sorry) committee will stra.-p you into your seat. give you a walkman to keep you qui~t, and a button which says h<lw much you }()ve your school. 'fhis is all f()I' free. but buttons are limited so be .prompt and be safe. To the graduating rnemlxlrs of the class of '89, remern1Jet that .as you rise to t:bis occasion it not only marks an important milestone in y()ur life; but it tests your ability to endure the crap yo11'U have: to deal with when you get Ollt of this zoo. And as you enter tile jungle of -the \real wor 1!1\ remember to put )1()llrse1f in gear, hold ()n tight, and dotl~t' forget to buclde up f<lr the ritle. ~EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION i400 16th Street NW, washington, DC 20036·2256 Yell At Me Trailer The Drowners . She's Anal Retentive Little LeagU.e Dog Bones .Indiana Jones & The Last ·Crusade How I Failed Out of College Field of Failures Shuffle board ' Indiana Jones & · The Last Crusade Speak No Evil ·can Theaters for Show Times. IDLE CHATTER By S.J.V. my stream of consciousness, no it was yours, ok, it was mine, but it was ovedlowing yeah, overflowing into the garden yeah, Jackson's Garden, flooding newly planted flowers and washing away recently painted grass because the maintenance crew forgot to deposit a sufficient amount of grass seeds which were scheduled to blossom the morning of June 11th also known as graduation or commencement which is a time when :administration.· and faculty put on their robes and acts - the message to parents that the fruits of their labor have been well supervised and cared for , for the mere price of 18 thousand dollars per year. • Tonight • The Committee on Committees is chairing the discussion on Mandatory Club meetings. All members must attendl Please bring lunch money and a friend. '-Ji

DISTOJlJ)JENSJS D-DAY, 1989 Page 9 I ----·-CLIP N 5 Be Safe At Graduation By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts & Crafts Editor Did you ever feel like you're in reverse and parked on a steep incline? Well, if you've ever felt like this its time to get rolling and Union is going to make sure you're ready when they are. In fact, all precautions have been made to be sure you're secure for graduation. Over the past school year concern has been mounting about the decorum of some individuals at the Commencement exercises, and in particular the inappropriate behavior of students during the Invocation. This is a message for those men and women who are graduating this June 11. Graduation is a time for reflection, and a time to get serious. At this point in your career the game is over. Face it--there is no fun after Union. In fact, life is going to be hell and to help you come to this realization, Union has ensured that this year's graduation will get you ready for the \real world\ outside. Since last year, many restrictions have been made which contribute to the already existing rules forbidding head sways, mouth drools, and yawns during conventional ceremonies held outside library plaza. This year it has been announced by the committee on committees that there will be no breathing, talking, or public display of affection during graduation. Furthermore, instead of caps and gowns, all graduating seniors must pick up their helmets and bullet proof vests at the Veterans' Club. Remember this is a precautionary action to ensure that no ·one gets erroneously Do you want to be known? Well make yo·urself heard in the next IDLE ISSUE Start this summer and send all Idle entries to Box 666 by Feb. 29, 1999 struck over the head by a passing frisbee or hacky sack. Additionally, all alcoholic beverages will be confiscated by those members on the social committee who will be manning posts during ceremonies at all entrances of Union College. Furthermore. before and after commencement, all students will be required to take urinary drug tests to ensure that no part of the ceremony will be interrupted by raucous revelry. Moreover, if anyone is found fondling private parts or drinking beverages other than water, juice, or milk, one's graduation will be immediately suspended until further notice. Appeals to these decisions will be handled by the Standards Board Committee at a later date. Remember how you felt knowing you could get a free burger and not get kicked off campus by security because you owned your own blue hospital band? Well now Union has taken it a step further to ensure your safety. This year your ticket to gradu2tion is a fluorescent seat belt which all seniors wiU find in tlleir mail boxes\ Acc<Jrnmodating tllis device. one will find a flyer explaining its use and how it is to be wom Of course you can get inta tlte ceremonies having it tucked away in your pocket, but o11ce you are in your seat yo11 must put it on imme:diately. In fact, upon req11st the BSNS (Be Safe Not Sorry) committee will strap you i11to your seat, give you a wa~rnan to keep you quiet. and a.. button which says how muclt :you love your school. This is all for free, but buttons are limited so be prompt and be safe:. T<l. ti:Je graduatin~ members of t1Ie class of '89. remember that as you rise to this occa~ion it not only marks an impo:r:~nt milestone in your life,. bt1t it tests yom ability to endl!re the crap you'll have to deal Vlith when you get out of this :>:O(). And as you enter the jun!jle of the \real world\ remember to put yourself in. geu, llold on tight, and don't forget to buckle up for the ride. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION • 1400 16th Street NW, washington, DC 20036-2266 Yell At Me Trailer The Drowners She's Anal Retentive Little League Dog Bones Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade H()w I Failed Out ofCollege Field of Failures Shuffieboard Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade Speak No Evil Call Theaters for Show 'limes. ltti.ltrBfi)'t3ifiiDJw:·sl-g. :n· · may·{be\Loo .. the Lion.b.ut your bemwJor this t·,•w,as.: mt~'· li~ '*'\snake·> Spend the summer celibit and ~t.i11g tiat:y~ur sinsH · · · J[ii1ffiJiii~G·•~·( >:. Ybu're lucky the year is almost over becaase your could not. bave taken much more torture. Commitment is .not in the far future .for yon. however a few Hone nigbters\ · l¥tlet1t11lt~lty are. 1 ,''\\\'\\\\'\'~···· You 1 re summer will be exhilarating and fulfilling, as newest fling tutns out to become a long lasting (J(~latlOU1~111t) .. -(101lQtlet tho~ Words scare you away! · your summer plans will keep you me opposite sex ~-- you will have oo ·mr~tha1t'.d,~~:tm~mtlri\ilru·!l comf~ irJ religion. l\ik~Stati$•:'$•1:lg8t~l;,.~~·~. your love life could begin •ne.···n~•n. it's too late and the year is . . , '··· .. :;r~{;:\·m~t ~~d time with your family, they love • JI.Q matt~ what. To quote Bazooka Joe \What you think 't -b:appren,. wilt\ ':-' (,•.,AB~J~~,.; . ... Yo.ur.$igll. tnaY.. be tl,ie Ram. b\lt it seems yo have been ~·~ 5 ,,,~;~•u;•• , ... ,. t(JQtnUCn t() neattl This summer give your genitalS; a n.ew<~YU9 recllann€(1 yQ~r energy •. S: You. certainly can squirm your way out of any tt.U~lt:to:n .. Pontt try using any cheesy excuses to end a rel~Jti(>nSilip just because it's the. end of the year. The fuU moon . tu;~.good luck. , IDLE CHATTER By S.J.V. my stream of consciousness, no it was yours, ok, it was mine, but it was overflowing yeah, overflowing into the garden yeah, Jackson's Garden, flooding newly planted flowers and washing away recently painted grass because the maintenance crew forgot to deposit a sufficient amount of grass seeds which were scheduled to blossom the morning of June 11th also known as graduation or commencement which is a time when • administration and faculty put on their robes and acts - the message to parents that the fruits of their labor have been well supervised and cared for , for the mere price of 18 thousand dollars per year. • Tonight s The Committee on Committees is chairing the discussion on Mandatory Club meetings. All members must attend! Please bring lunch money and a friend.

Page 1() D1STORDIENSIS D-DAY, 1989 CAMPUS NEWS :========== • To My Con(ordiensls Family- •I Thanks for putting up with me ----------- 1 {and. the pizza ~ we'll do . PERSONALS To.SP & DK, There once was a college in . Schenectady, Whose con-servatives (some of them) JJad a perplexity, One felt there were too many radicals, Although the implication was purely fanatical And now 'SENTimeNTAL'. Tracy &. Katie D., they're . Chinese next year). Can't wait for next year! See you in the · fall. R. Reed Tangerine, ·· t. . Congratulations buddy on . graduation. I'm so glad I met you when I did. Can't wait to · cook pasta and chili! Love, Your new found Frizzy buddy! · LisaRice- Michele M. and Erika F., When you· go to rtaly, Germany, and France, Clink you'r~ glasses and be · sure to dance Michele -·· Don't .pack too much crap and Erika -Be in cbarge of the rnap. We are so jealous we want you to know, · Agajn to Bath, we wish we could go!!! Love, Leslie and Amy 4th Floor North, Thank you for a great year. Good .luck. I hope ·to see you · guys again sometime. Love, Primavera Tina & Fi ~ , I'll miss you. We're. really on our own next year. I can't believe it! Thanks for every thing! . LoveR:. Reed ' ·' --.._,...-~.-.....,.-~~-- R. Reed, Spanish 11 and 12, Buena Suerte en sus examenes fmales. Primavera D~b, Monkey, Suz, Cath, Len, · Steve, _ 1 · [ forgot to thank you for being · Freshmen last week. Amy Harrison Ford called. He wants you to meet him un~er tbe bjg tree next to the Nott. Don't forget the sunflower seeds (David's, not Planters). Beth, fen. Kristen, ~Y- · Thanks for letting me live in your room. I never did get a key. Yottr botll awesome! Little sisters are speciaJ. l'll miss you dearly when you I are gone! Congrats on your up · To the Featw!~$Editor who My Little \Greek Editor\- Mad Napper, · I'm glad we talked. You mean the world to me. Thanks for always being there for me. You know I will always be here for you. 301 Sewar<i Place: Wendy · and coming graduation - you deserve it! Love, Your next door neighor · Caveman- Thanlcs for 2 great terms; Beck and Wendy 171 miss you next year. . · I'll see you downstairs in the Love, Lisa flower room with .coffee and a 301 Seward: The 111()use in the wok, the fire detecttn, the Church Lady, · cig - let's try not to do pirouettes unless its necessary! -Dee Ralph Lauren curtains, stir Penny- fried chicken, pasta and more \ · You're the beans - and don't · pasta, Days of Our Lives, and forget it! especially to the best plumbing in Sch-enectady! Love, Wendy Becky, Whose that you want to kiss? Uh - What's his name? 301 Seward, THANKS for everything these last tw[) terms! Good luck next year amd stay in touch. Wendy Becky, It's a g()od thing you don't have a father Mound here! ! ! Love, Kristen Kriste-n, I'm e;~;;pecting a third hat .trick by Ju;ne 11! Don't disappoint me! Tony, Thanks for an amazing weeke.:nd. I can't wait for a hot- sizzliag summer wiih you. Love always, Lisa Roses are Red Viole~ are Blue 301 Seward Oh, Wb:at a Crew. Congr-atulations Rhonda & Ev. I'll mi:ss you next year. Love, Cheesie Amy, B.eth, Tracy, Elise & Danah:, THANK YOU for a great Senior Weeki You're the best! Wendy Ed Lin- Yow annbrella is up in The Concordiensis. COME GET IT ! ! ! 301 Seward- Thanks for a great roof over my he;ad! I'll miss it next year- don't \?lOrry I'll sleep over, OK? (I male yen some spaghetti Carbollara for you one night!). Love B. Patricl, How <loos some6ne earn a letter? Goetzy l' -Dina Kris B- See someone is thinking of you! We'll have a great swnmer! -Dina NYHUS- One last tour, one last radio show, one last personal - -Steph • Tina, I can't believe they used Phil's . ladder - that must be 'against '' the law. Sephanie Kath- I lied, this is the last one. It's on to dress codes and condos you don't P..ay for. Love, Steph BLOOM COUNTY by Berke Breathed lives in Richmond 104: You~re a great roomie and rm really going to miss you in the fall! Ciao!' I will miss you (but not your . smoke),,. Ciao, Bella! Good luck as Greek Prime Minister! You've got my vote! Love, R. Reed The Exam Season has come upon us· Studying is something we feel we must. The partying must come to an end; . While our grades we try to mend. We will be ba~k next fall, The incoming~ freshmen can not wait to meet us all Cheers to the graduating class With them we have had a blast!. HAVE A GOOD SUMMER! / Meanie fl')tp rr..Jflt/ /?IPIV'T 51$1!11/T ~7fllfr 5fl()l1/£t:1 tiP lfAKt'l tW ? \------ ,/

Lose Sonwthing? Check out the Lo,st & Found· in the . . Security & . Safety Q.ffice: .saxton, Porter Speir s·cbo·larships All Union students ~ho are accepted and definately planning to attend Albany Law School are eligible to apply for these scholarships. , Applications can be obtained in the Political Science ·Department Office, and should be returned to. Prof. Board in the Political Science · Dep·arttnent by JUly 1, 1989 DISTORDIENSIS D-DAY, 1989 Page 11 · CoiTie to Disorientiationl 'Thursday, June 8th $5.00 fee Toastie - Os & FREE BEER Listen for the Primal Screams Beginning June 5. Continue the Tradition by Releasing your tension 1989-90 COLLEGE CALENDAR Septembe·r 1989 3 Residence halls open 3-6 Freshman orientation 5 Freshman advising 5-7 ' Fall term_registration 7 Classes begin 22 Last day for changes in schedule October 1989 6-7 · Homecoming weekend November 15 17 22 1989 Classes end Fall terll) exams begin Exams end at 4:00 p.m.; recess begins; residence halls close at 6:00p.m. January 1990 2 Residence halls open at noon 3 Winter term classes begin 3-4 Winter term registration 16 Last day for changes in schedule March 1990 · 13 Classes end 15 Winter term exams begin 21 Exams end; recess begins 22 Residence halls close .at noon A.prll 1990 1 Residence halls open at noon 2 Spring term classes begin 2-3 Spring term registration 13 ·Last day for changes in schedule 19-20 Academic recess (no classes) June 1990 8 Classes end 11 Spring term exams begin 14 Exams end 15-17 ReUnion weekend 1 7 Commencement

. ,. This is why the new exercise .program wlll be lnst·ated. Dale Rochford, contortionist ot Gumby wanna Be? D-DAY Calisthenics To Become Mandatory for Entire Ca.mpus By BOB JACK LALANE This upcoming fall, a spartan exercise program will be instituted for all those who do not participate in varsity sports. Also, those who have won the President's Award for Physical Fitness will be declared exempt. Athletic Director Dick Sakala unveiled this ambitious attempt to invigorate and condition the out of shape, flabby students here at Union. The benefits from such a program could include a higher quality of academics. The reasoning behind this is that the mind functions much better after blood has coursed through the veins and· arteries fogged by nocturnal alcoholic imbibing activities. The daily morning exercise program would be strictly enforced. Those who refuse to cooperate will be forced to parade naked around campus, showing their pitiful excuses Those who refuse to cooperate will be forced to parade naked around campus, showing their pitiful excuses for physiques. of physiques. The college plans to lease Parris Island . drill instructors, and Hans and Franz to lead the rigorous activities. The DI' s job would begin by rousing even the most hung- over students fro@ bed. Then., they will shoot over the he~tds of students who will lle, . scampering through obstacle courses and barbed-wire nets soon to be erected in J ackS()n Gardens and behind Presiden1 Morris' house. With the help of Hans and Franz, student.s would proceed to be pumped .up and become manly men, -w:ho can flex with the big boys. Long sweatshirts will aLso be prohibited, so no one will be able to hide their lar;ge bubble butt. Any pers()o caught violating this law wiLl be forced to don the shorte-st, tightest shorts available. s() here~s to a healthier, happier .. smarter Union College community. Top Ten Athletes Of The .Year 10. 9. 8. 7. 6. 5. 4. Con-cordiensis, for beating WRUC .Jerri Clark and Mrs. Marra for never taking the College Center Elevator Canajoharie Waterfall divers who've made it back alive. Masked streakers at last hoop game. Mail Room workers for - . shovelling 700lbs. of mail per day Chi Psi porch bailers Dean Alford, biking enthusiast 3. All those groovy hacky sackers 2. Gamma Phi Beta Seniors (i.e. Nude Nott Run) 1. Val Sarwin, Pop-A-Shot Queen Come Watch the Concordiensis staff conti.nue their winning streak over the 89.7 WRUC staff TODAY 4:30 @Library Field EXCITING SOFTBALL ACTION

