ollege 1877 Vo:l. CXYIII, No~ 15 Schenectady, New York March 2, 1989 Steamy Crosstalk . . . Focuses On Romance At Union ~ . By )).&NlSE FEINSOD 0~ Wednesday, February 22, the Cro-s~talk Committee p:r~seated a discussion entitled,. \SciiiiU1i:iqg o:r Romance; What Do U11ion Students Want?\. with tlie su.btitle, \Are Union stu.-dents less likely to get inv()lv.ed in · long term telati<>nshjpsl Why?il There was a :relatl\ely large audience . (ab<lu.t 50 people) in attendance. th:e moderator was Professor B.yt()n Nich.ols of the Political Sci.enee cepa1ment. He opened by sta-ting the evening's disc u ssio11 · topic and intro-ducing tile four panelists, .eac:h of wlrom would present their vi.e~}ioirits, to be foll()wed b-y a question and 1 ans:wer disc11ssion session. The ' panelists were Katharine· Nylms, Katie Hamilton, Josh .. Waldman~ attd Tim Mathews, all of whom are seniors; They were. ~ch ·free to talk briefly on any aspect of the question wlric::b interested them. Kath b-egan. with the ugllmellt tbat the Greek S yst~rn • at Union hinders reLationships and fosters · scam.ming. Slle stated that the Greelc System unnaturally separates rnmand women, in a way tilat tlit~y are not separated in largy£ society. It also serves to c:reate sterectypes about sta<le11ts, as well as limiting male/femate, interaction to \IJOO'ty\' situ~tions. ' , Katie sp-ole second, and Cont lilued c.n page 2 . Decline In Admissi'ons Applications Paints Misleading Picture - .. 7 · Union considers, according to Delta Chi Reacts To ·SAC Housing Decision ' ' Nourse. He states that a greater .. . emphasis is placed _on grade After a record· number of~ · point average and class rank as applicants last year, Union well as achievement. test By JAY FREELAND News Editor 600 Signatures On Petition College will see its frrst drop scores. . in the size of the applicant . Union still requires three · pool in almost ten years. . · achievement tests in the By DEl~ISE FElNSOD projects 100% occupancy of their house in the 1989-90 Delta Chi has currently been academic year. This percentage gathering signatures on a would exceed the College•s petition to be presented 1:.0 the guideline of 95%. Corresponding to a widespread problem across the country this year, Union has sUffered a 15% decline in its number of · applicants from- last year~ However, aCcording to Kenneth A. Nourse, dean of adniissions and financial aid, this number • ·E Student Affairs Committee. Professor J. Douglass Klein, ~ The petition states that those the chair of the S.A.C., is not an alarming one. g signing have considered Delta pointed out that the S.A.C.\s w Chi's housing situation and decision was not b~ed on an::y Nourse states that everyone has been expecting a drop like this for almost ten years and it is merely a part of a cycle . · ~ that they, \firmly and projections for next year, b11t · >- ·emphatically petition the · ratber on Delta Chi's currellt ·g Student Mfairs Committee and ' occupancy as well as their g the College Administration to. occupancy in the past few · which has occuqed many times Dean of Admissions and c. reconsider their recent dedsion years. He indicated that tltoe befo,re. He states that the Financia-l Aid Kenneth A. important figure to look at is Nourse the average · number of . application process, ·and out of applicants over the past ten· • 1800 schools in the United years. This number is currently 1 States which require tests, only 'at 3,170 and using this as a 150 require the achievements. comparison, Union's drop is 'j This number, states Nourse, is ~only 8%. • · just one more example which The reason that the difference ! shows that Union has not in the number of applicants i declined in quality or between this year and last is so i competitiveness. Although a large is because of the inflated ·1 fu. 11 study on Union's first class number of applicants that acepted without S.A.T.'s . union received last year. One . ! cannot be accurately completed of only four schools of its kind : until around 1992, Nourse to drop S.A.T. scores as a ' issued assurance that the requirement, Union's ·I quality of students has not applications r.ose to an all-time · 1 declined. With this in mind, · high. This, however, has not I many people wonder what hurt the quality of student that Continued on . page 3 WRUC Elects New .Board Unconfroversialln Light Of Previous Elections By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-in-Chief The WRUC membership elected Nini Mehta '90 as their new general manager. Thursday evening in a run-off election·. Unlike previous years, the elections were not surrounded in controversy. Three candidates ran for the general manager position: Dave Sloat, Jared Blume, and Mehta. The run-off election was between the two highest vote- getters. Me,hta won by an 11 vote margin (34 to 23). Other eleptions for the WRUC board similarly were uncontroversial; in fact, three of the four other positions were UJlCOntested. Technical Manager went to Bruce Pennypacker '90. ·Andrew Seewald '91 and· Karen Schaefer'91 were elected · ' business manager and promotional manager. respectively. ·The other WRUC board position that was contested was . programming manager. Jared · Bloom '90 won by a wide margin over Dave Weissmann · '91. Newly-elected GM Mehta commented on the controversy surrounding last year's el~ctions saying that, \there · may have been some animosity . last year, but the bottom line · is that everyone who tan last year cared about WRUC and its . welfare.\ Commenting on this year;s elections, Mehta added, \There's no animosity within the board or between WRUC , members. I'm really pleased about who I'm going to be working with. This is going to be a really tight board.\ to deny Delta Chi housing S.A.C. would certianly look at privileges.\ any petition submitted t() . The S.A.C. -recently voted them. The S.A,C. would · :\1lhanimously to recommend tO' · require a majority vote in order the Office of Residence Life . to reopen discussion on the \that Delta Chi be denied its ' Delta Chi housing question ()f group housing privilege to conduct another vote. beginning with the 1989-90 academic year.\ In making this . decision, the S.A.C. cited the 95% occupany policy of the school, as well as the fact that over this period of time, Delta • : Chi has consistantly been under these occupancy levels; It is important to note that · the final decision on any housing question lies with the Office of Residence Life .. The S.A.C. decision is a recommendation to Residence Life that they enforce the Student Forum policy of 95% occup&nyrequrrennents. · Delta Chi, which has been conducting rush steadily since fall term, has given out their spring bids early this year to indicate to the college that they are taking this problem seriously. Currently, the house has 19 pledges. Taking these pledges into account, as weU as the brothers who are currenly on terms abroad, Delta Chi Delta Chi's petition reads, \We as students of Union College believe our opinion should not ~ be disregarded in this ma.tter.\ Delta Chi's petition reads, in part, \We as students of Union College, believe our opinions should not be disregarded in this matter.\ Michael Cseh, the current president of Delta Chl, stated that \the S.A.C. believes it is acting on behalf of the students: we feel this is untrue.\ This is an important point in view of the many decisions made by Union College in the past few year~ which disregarded student input. As of this past Tuesday,. February 28, Cseh estimated that Delta Chi had approximately 600 signatures. PHOTO OF THE WEEK: A Public Service Announcement: Beware the dangers of the Epiladx - The Surgeon General advises wearing a protective hair device when operating this piece of equipment.

Vol. CXVIII, No. 15 Steamy Crosstalk Focuses On Romance At Union By DENISE FEINSOD On Wednesday, February 22, the Crosstalk Committee presented a discussion entitled, \Scamming or Romance: What Do Union Students Want?\ with the subtitle, \Are Union students less likely to get involved in long term relationships? Why?\ There was a relatively large audience (about 50 people) m attendance. The moderator was Professor Byron Nichols of the Political Sciellce department. He opened by stating the evening's discussion topic and introducing the four panelists, each of whom would present their viewpoints, to be followed by a question and answer discussion session. The panelists were Katharine Nyhus, Katie Hamilton, Josh Waldman, and Tim Mathews, all of whom are seniors. They were each free to talk briefly on any aspect of the question which interested them. Kath began with the argument that the Greek System at Union hinders relationships and fosters scarnming. She stated that the Greek System unnaturally separates men and women, in a way that they are not separated in larger society. It also serves to create stereotypes about students, as well as limiting male/female, interaction to \party\ situations. Katie spoke second, and Continued on page 2 • Schenectady, New York March 2, 1989 Decline In Admissions Applications Paints Misleading Picture By JAY FREELAND News Editor After a record number of applkants last year, Union Coll~ge will see its first drop in the size of the applicant po()l in almost ten years. Corresponding to a widespread problem across tb.e country this year, Union has sllffered a 15% decline in its number of applicants from last year. However, according to Kenneth ·Union considers, according to Nourse. He states that a greater emphasis is placed on grade point average and class rank as well as achievement test scores. Union still requires three achievement tests in the A. Nourse, dean cf admissions and financial aid, this number • is not an alarming one. Nourse states that everyone has been expecting a drop like this fur almost ten years and it is merely a part of a cycle whi()b has occurred many times before. He states that the important figure to look at is the average number of applicants over the past ten years. This number is currently at 3,170 and using this as a comparison, Union's drop is only~%. The reason that the difference in the number of applicants between this year and last is so large is because of the inflated number of applicants that Union received last year. One of only four schools of its kind to drop S.A.T. scores as a requirement, Union's applications rose to an all-time higl1. This, however, has not hurt tbe quality of student that Dean of Admissions and Financial Aid Kenneth A. Nourse ; application process, and out of ; 1800 schools in the United States which require tests, only 150 require the achievements. [This number, states Nourse, is i just one more example which ; shows that Union has not .: declined in quality or : competitiveness. Although a I full study on Union's first class i acepted without S.A.T.'s • cannot be accurately completed · until around 1992, Nourse : issued assurance that the i quality of students has not · declined. With this in mind, i many people wonder what Continued on page 3 WRUC Elects New Board Uncontroversial In Light Of Previous Elections By CHRISTINE HONG Editor-ill-Chief The WRUC membership elected Nini Mehta '90 as their new general ma11ager. Thursday evening in a run-off election-. Unlike previous years, the electiuns were not surrounded in coatroversy. Three candidates ran for the general manager position: Dave Sloat, Jared Blume, and Mehta. The run-off election was between the two highest vote- getters. Mehta won by an 11 vote margin (34 to 23). Otb.er ele_ctions for the WRUC board similarly were uncon:troversial; in fact, three of the four other positions were ooc()ntested. Technical Manager went to Bruc:e Pennypacker '90. Andrew Seewald '91 and Karen Schaefer '91 were elected business manager and promotional manager, respective! y. The other WRUC board position that was contested was programming manager. Jared Bloom '90 won by a wide margin over Dave Weissmann '91. Newly-elected GM Mehta commented on the controversy surrounding last year's el~ctions saying that, \there may have been some animosity last year, but the bottom line is that everyone who ran last year cared about WRUC and its welfare.\ Commenting on this year's elections, Mehta added, \There's no animosity within the board or between WRUC members. I'm really pleased about who I'm going to be working with. This is going to be a really tight board.\ Delta Chi Reacts To SAC Housing Decision 600 Signatures On Petition By DENISE FEINSOD Delta Chi bas currently been gathering signatures on a petition to be presented to the Student Affairs Committee. The petition states that those signing have considered Delta Chi's housing situation and that they, \firmly and emphatically petition the Student Affairs Committee and the College Administration to reconsider their recent decision to deny Delta Chi housing privileges.\ The S.A.C. recently voted · unanimously to recommend to the Office of Residence Life \that Delta. Chi be denied its group housing privilege beginning with the 1989-90 academic year.\ In making this decision, tile S.A.C. cited the 95% occupany policy of the school, as well as the fact that over this period of time, Delta Chi has consistantly been under these occupancy levels. It is important to note that the final decision on any housing question lies with the Office of Residence Life. The S.A.C. decision is a recommendation to Residence Life that they enforce the Student Forum policy of 95% occupany requirements. · Delta Chi, which has been conducting rush steadily since fall term, has given out their spring bids early this year to indicate to the college that they are taking this problem seriously. Currently, the house has 19 pledges. Taking these pledges into account, as well as the brothers who are currenly on terms abroad, Delta Chi projects 100% occupancy of their house in the 1989-90 academic year. This percentage would exceed the College's guideline of 95%. Professor J. Douglass Klein, the chair of the S.A.C., pointed out tllat the S.A.C.'s decision was not based on any projections for next year, but · rather on Delta Chi's current occupancy as well as their occupancy in the past few years. He indicated that the S.A.C. would certianly look at any petition submitted to them. The S.A.C. would require a majority vOle in order to reopen discussion on the Delta Chi housing question or to conduct another vote. Delta Chi's petition reads, \We as students of Union ColJege believe our opinion should not be disregarded in this matter.\ Delta Chi's petition reads, in part, \We as students of Union College, believe our opinions should not be disregarded in this matter.\ Michael Cseh, the current president of Delta Chi, stated that \the S.A.C. believes it is acting on behalf of the students: we feel this is untrue.\ This is an important point in view of the many decisions made by Union College in the past few years which disregarded student input. As of this past Tuesday, February 28, Cseh estimated that Delta Chi had approximately 600 signatures. PHOTO OF THE WEEK: A Public Service Announcement: Bewars the dangers of the Epiladx - The Surgeon General advises wearing a protective hair device when operating this piece of equipment

Page 2 CONCOJJ.DIENSIS Mtirc/t, .Z, 1989 ' : - . . . - - . . Student Forum Stresses College Better Inform Student Body Of Policies Recycling Leads TheW ~y In The. Meeting Hears Discussion Of Housing Lottery, Co.,ops, New Academic Departments, Delta Chi . Situ,atiQn Fight··Against· By CHRISTINE .HONG Editor-in-Chief over 'YhY Raymond House . . hasn't been ()ffered for fraternity or sorority housing, in ~he The Student Forum's agenda possibility that Delta Chi will for discussion this past have its housi~g revoked. SAC Thursday included housing representative Rick Howard '90 l<>ttery policy, Union's co-op noted that Dean. of Students bousing, the three newly Joseph Mammola had installed academic departments, commented that it was a and the proposed- academic \foregone conclusion ~ that bonesty policy. they'te (the Greeks) not going The two-hour long meeting to get housing in the near convened in the Mobil' Lounge future.\ · <lfthe College Center. Reports R.J. Donohue, senior class were offered from the Student representative, commented on Forum subcommittees. Gamma Pbi Beta sorority's The Student Affairs situation. \If Gamma Phi Committee re})resentative doesn't receive housing from Ieported on the pr()posed lottery Union soon, other national system aadjustments that SAC sororities will not be drawn,J:o is making to Residence Life. · colonize at Union. This would Discussion concerned the be unfortunate.\ present policy which John Meier ;91 reported on (!etermines which student pool the Academic Affairs will be awarded co~op housing Committee. The thr~ proposed (Smith and Bronn~r houses). academic departments were Although the Forum's approved. Women's Studies, recommendation has been, •. Religious Studies. and East :requested by the Forum to be· Asian Studies were approved withheld until SAC formally and will be implemented in the receives it, the For.um did 1991-92 academic year. A stress that Residence Life ·search for professors will start silould inform the student body next fall. of its policies more vocally. Concerning the academic The present review .of Delta honesty program, the Student Chi occupancy level was also Forum is awaiting for the discussed. Question was raised AAC to complete their Gel- \Scamming or Romance\ Crosstalk- B.rings Poign.ant Issue To Forum C(lhtinued from page 1 began by stating that Union is definitely a \scamming\ school, p.ossibly because people either do not lhink that there is anyone here that they \Would be interested in, or that they believe a relationship would cause them to sacrifice too much of their time. She said that the drinking focus of Union's .social life became a \vicious cycle\ in which students are inhibited about talking to others, they start <lrinking, they do things which tlley normally would not do, tliey then become embarrassed, which leads back to the <lriginal inhibitions. She concluded that although students often have negative J>reconceptions about relationships, they do not gain from \scamming which rather . leads to a loss of self-esteem. Tim spoke next, in support · <lf scamming as a viable altemtaive to a long term relationship. He sa:id that <:ollege was a unique experience ill which we are stmounded by a large number of people our age, often with similar interests. Because this situatiQn could never be duplicated in the real world, he stated that wanting to meet a lot of people dUring this period makes sense. \Meetingl' people was Tim's alternative definition of \scamming.\ ·Tim pointed out that he was not discouraging lo~g term relationships, but rather defending those whe choose not to engage in them. Josh spoke in favor of long tenn relationships. He stated that these kinds of relationships enhance a stadent's experience at college· in many different ways. They provide people with new groups of friends, as well as a positive experience to look back on. He also pointed out the often noted \tendency of · Spring to foster the desire for · more serious relationships. Following thes·e presentations was an hour of- ' discussion ranging int.o many Continued on page 3 Thl.nldng about teaching? This is the course for you ... Issues in American Education (SOC 52) 6 Spring Term Professsors Weiner and Ludwig T, Th 8:50 • 10:30 am · time review for the Union . faculty. Meier stated-that the AAC will be ready to present · their report to the faculty on · April 27. The Forum will also be waiting for the AAC to address the majors/minors. proposal. The addition of a minor declaration policy at Union is expected to be · reviewed early spring term. The Forum also h.eard a · request for funding from · Concordiensis. The funding . was asked in order to send two Concordiensis members to a · jmJrnalism seminar in Washington, D.C. Match 18 and 1~. The Forum also heard two proposals for an upperclassmen study library (preferably in Old Chapel) and the reinstallation .of a magazine ·reading room in tbe Schaffer ·Library. The Student Fo:r:um. will meet tonight at 8 p.m. on the fourth floor of Ute College Center. WRITE FOR NEWS! CALL Elfse~x4410 Jay-x4153 Becky-37 4-8984 .W,aste · By ,J'ENNIFER. HOLMES Center estimates that it receives seven hundred pounds Why Tecycle? This question of mail per day for faculty .and should follow another question: • , students, Themailroom throw.s does the future matter? away abOut seventy to eighty · Everyday we ~reate an over\ pounds of mail per da,y. In abundant amount of waste and addition, students·-~ toss this will threaten our future if , approximately forty pounds of we are not willing te act mass. mailings. A$ a result, at immediately. Recycling ~an · least two,.bundted and fifty make a large impact on the pounds and maybe up to four ---~--\\l'.----- . hundred pounds of mail each · Each year Union spends · · week is thrown away. 75~000 dollars to take Unnecessary waste is a away trash. It costs . • problem that needs to be nothing to come and take • addressed on carnpus. Students away recyclable material. • for Political Awareness and fight against waste. · · Action are working toward a Cutr~ntly; eighty-five solution. In the future, one ' . percent of househoid ttash is . · will see red bins on campus for taken to landfills. Why are recycling. Soon, there will be . landfills a problem? Firstly, we no neep to throw your mail or · are running out of space to cite other paj)er in the waste basket these landfills. Secondiy, toxic : because these bills will provide waste from household you with the opportunity to chemicals wbich are dumped in reeycle. Recycling will not the landfills is leaking out of ·. ?nly .benefit ~e env~onmertt, them and onto the ground · . · It w1ll benefit ~mon also. . surface. Thirdly, most of the Each year Umon spends waste that is thrown in the · ·$75,000 te take aw.ay trash. It landfiHs can be recyCled. costs nothing for someone to Consequently, we are depriving . • come and take the recyclable future generations of these . !Date~al. Choosing t? recycle resources. · , · IS an Important step m a long Eighty to ninety percent of . term goal of solving our waste all paper can be recycled. The · crisis and working tOgether can mailroom in the College make a difference. Si_glna Phi Booksalel!! • The Department.of Philo$optly Union College presents PROFESSOR HOWARD MCGARY Rutgers, New Bunswick At the beginning of next term we will-be selling hundreds of textbooks for the upcoming spring classes. and if you would like to add any textbooks of your own to our stock (you set the price you want) then~hring them to Sigma Phi immediately following.';Your exams at the end of this tenn (or during the sale at the · beginning of next term). This will provide . students with a convenient method of reselling used hooks and getting the bookstore ., caE!h for books\ where you receive as little as a quarter of your original cost. . . A small percentage of all sales will go to the United Way as charity. / . \Paternalism Slavery & Liberalism\ March 3, 1989 3:15pm . Humanities Bldg., Rm. 215 Reception immediately following colloquim in Humanities Lounge All colloquia.areopen to the public For further details call the Philosophy · Department Office (51.8) 370-6316 .. SENIORS - STUI)Y FOR ONE YEAR OR E'OR ONE OR TWO TERMS m' ' Due to overwhelming popular demand, commencement speeches will not be due until March 31 at 4:30 am. All speeches must · be in Mrs. Marra's office (Room · 408 Carn_egie) at this time. Again, the topic . 1s yours to choose. OXFORD Sevetlil colleges of Oxford Univcrsity·have in~!ted The\yashlngton International Studies Certl'\ to· recomrn~n.d q!l<!llficd studencs to study foe one y~ or for one or two term.;. Lower .Jumor status is rc(IJ.llred. and grad~te study !s av:illable. Student.!; arc i:llrectly enrolled In their c;otlcge:s ' and:rec;elvo; transcripis lrom their·Oxford.rollege: this is NOTa progr.irtl•CQrtdu~:ted by'a U.S, Col- . , lege in Oxford. A sJ)«ial Sl.!mmer session Is directed by WlSC. \ / INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WJSC air~ SimUTiet intel'n!!hlps With COngress. with tl1e Whlte House. wlth the iPedia and with lhink' ta.Ms. 0\>vernment and ,Jcllirrlallstn ~are ~ght by iSertlor·levd government otntfals. who·~ also· scholars. and by ~llced J!iUfMIISis. Similar Qpportunitle; IIi. public policy !ntertuhlps an: offctcd (with acadeinlc crtdlt),lli London IF'a\1. 5.J:ring .and Swumerl - . TheW~onint~d~Studies Center · . I ~14 Ma$$acllbSI:tl:$/t.Vc .. N.E; S\il!c 230. · W~n. D.C. 2!l002 (2021 547•321!1 WRSC EO.IAA - '

.CONCORDIENSIS March 2, 1989 Page 3 Fewer High School Graduates Shrink Applicant Pool Continued from page 1 _exactly bas caused the fall in the number of applicants and what can be done, if anything, to reverse the cycle. · . · down only 5% from last year. · These numbers show that there has not been a loss of interest in Union, despite what may be apparent from the overall figures. Crosstalk Examines Relationships At Union Continued from page 2 en :a:· < 3 . different aspects of the original ;: . question. One point brought .~ out was the changes which 5 took place from freshman to .i13 senior year. Most students -~ agreed that scamming generally ~ lessened with age. Kath c.. suggested that this was because Nourse stated that a primary reason for the nationwide decline in applications can be. traced back to the high schools which feed colleges with students every year. Nourse presented numbers from the State of New York as a prime example of what has occurred. In the 1985-86 school year, 192~500 students graduated from high schools in New York State. In l989-90, this number will be 173,200 and by 1993, the number is expected to dtop to 158;000, Nourse stated that states such as Connecticut, New Jersey, and' Massachusetts, which are all primary feeders for Union, have and will suffer similar drops in high school graduates. · · Founder's Day ceremony procession marks 1'94th anniversary of. . seniors are more self-confident . College~ · · · and more aware of what they Nourse admits that we are going ·into a difficult time as far as admissions go, especially because of numbers and costs. Because the present decline has been expected for some time now, the admissions office has ·: prepared itself to the fullest possible extent. Nourse states that Union has developed an excellent network of alumni across the nation, and this· will be a major factor in helping to recruit students during the upcoming dry years. Although Union will have to accept a greater percentage of the applicants this year, Nourse reiterated that the studenis will remain to be the same caliber as we have seen in the past. He also stressed that the geographic dispersion and the male/female ratio of 50/50 will not be disturbed. One other important point that Nourse made is that the number of early decision applicants has only dropped by .one or two people; and the number of interviews conducted is 3,800, The key to all of this, Nourse states, is that Union is not alone in the applications decline. This is a nationwide problem and fits in with the trends and cycles of the past. Nourse stated that the only reason that Union's decline may appear so much higher in relation to comparable schools is because of the oversized applicant pool that was received last year. Nourse ihas no doubts that we will make it through the \application drought\ without lowering our standards and states that in the long run, suffering five rough years after two-hundred outstanding years will not even dent the tradition and quali~ we have at Union. Reported . Security Incidents Week of 2/20 - 2/26 2/20, Monday, 1:15 PM, College Center - Student reports. being harassed by unknown person. Unable to locate subject. 2/20, Monday, 5:00PM, Zeta Beta Tau - Theft of stereo speaker reported. No forced entry noted. 2/20, Monday, 8:26 PM, Rink area - Youths consuming alcohol. Advised off campus. property. 2/20, Monday, 8:50PM, Richmond- Student reports theft of wallet from room. No forced entry noted. 2/20, Monday, 10:18 PM, Davidson - Undesirable reported in atea. Unable to locate subject. 2/21, Tuesday, 1:15AM, S & E Building- Student injured while working on project. Transported to Emergeney Room. . 2/22, Wednesday. 12:45 AM, IDOL - Fire Department on campus to extinguish gasoline fire. 2/22, Wednesday, 2:11 AM, Delta Delta Delta - Noise complaint - advised · 2/22, Wednesday, 3:27PM, Fox House .. Vandalism and theft of services - washers and dryers. 2/22, Wednesday, 4:25PM, Nott Memorial- Report· of missing personal property. 2/1.2, Wednesday, 7:30 PM, Security Office - Campus wide bomb threat was received. Police department advised, unfounded. 2/42,. Wednesday, 8:38PM,. College Center,.. Student unconscious. Possibly due to donating blood. Transported to room for rest. 2/23, Thursday, 11:00 PM, Delta Delta Delta - Student reports missing purse from kitchen area. 2/25, Saturday, 5:15 PM, Sigma Chi- VandaJJsm- broken window. 2/25, Saturday, 9:00PM, Maxcy House- Vandalism .:. broken light fixture. i/26, Sunday, 12:52 AM; Old Chapel- Vandalism- coat rack torn from wall. 2/26-, Sunday, 2:22PM, Delta Phi- Noise complaint ... Officers unable to end Social Event. Dean Marrunoh\ contacted and responded. . 2/26, Sunday, 3:06 PM, Webster House - Report of Zeta Beta Tau pledges removing furniture. Subject _ apJX'ehended. . . 2/26, Sunday, 3:30AM, Richmond Lot- Report of suspicious vehicle. Vehicle gone on arrival. .. <:Founder's Day Ceremony Pays Tribute To, Union's Pioneers ·By MAURICE J. KAUFF • Last Thursday ·one of Union, i College's more obscure and· · forgotten ceremonies was held. · · Founders Day exists to pay tribute to those \pioneers as President Morris called them, who had the courage to found a college in wbat was then and · still might be frontier country. . This year·s ceremony had the · required pomp of an academic · procession as well as several · interesting comments, greetings, and speeches that, · quite by accident, developed a common theme. President Morris began his address with a · tribute to the founders, : commenting that Union still · represents tlie kind of \pioneer spirit'' that <!rove the founding of the Colle-ge. He cited the innovation of our Sciences, and the new General Education program as examples of Union's commitment to innovation iil academia while still rnainUtining a healthy respect for tradition. Peter Costa, President of the Student F<>rum, echoed President Morris by admonishing the faculty to continue their commitment to learning, but never to forget that \the sta11dards you set for yourselves are the standards you set for us.\ He indicated a strong desire to see the faculty become m()re involved in the intellectual life of the Col~ege outside the classroom. . Following this theme, the Honorary Degree recipient, Professor Gertrude Hhnmelfarb, began what was to become a highly controversial and thought provoking speech. She began by painting a rathc!r dismal picture of the current state of higher education in America, but was highly complementary of Union. Commenting that she was relieved by Union's stated purpose of \graduating students with an appreciatioll of the Western Tradition.\· One of her major points was that this tra,ditio:p. is being lost in higher edUcation tlu:cnlgll. emphasis on more obsc\iire academic disciplines. Claiming that the traditions of our society are being obfuscated by those who seek to place their academic pursuits out of reach of everyday thought. She reminded the audience of the importance of colleges and universities as resources to their communities, not just their students and faculty. Founder's Day ceremony was stimulating and challenging. Despite the low turnout of both faculty and students, it is good to see the continuation of tradition in this 194th year of the College. A PLATEFUL OF QUESTIONS The weekly group-participatory discussion series will be held Tuesday at 11 :45 in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center This Week's Question: HOW DO YOU KNOW WHEN YOU'VE HAD ENOUGH? All Are Welcome! Bring your lunch . Sponsored by DELTA. PSI DEL:TA- and the Campus Protestant Ministry are looking for. Tim, however, believed that scamming increased With age. One question discussed at · length dealt with the reasons that Unioll is so scamming oriented. Katie gave a few reasons: first, that there is · nowhere off campus for students to go on dates,- and second, because Union is so small, students do not want to be talked about or have their actions monitered by other students. The drinking orientation of Union's social life was also suggested as a reason for the lack of relationships. Another possibility raised was that the ' 10 . week academic schedule keeps students away from relationships, especially · because of the long winter ·break;. At one point, Kath made the much awaited point that it is . acceptable for students to not 1 be in a relationship, not · scamming, and 'not nctively · looking for either of these things. The last question discussed at length involved the actual · definition of scamming, which had been unclear. Among the suggestions made were that scamming involved a misunderstanding on the part of one of the parties as to the intent. One student stated that scamming could be seen as a substitute for dating, however one response made was that in dating one gets to know someone before one sleeps with that person, while with scamming, one gets up in the morning and introduces one's self. Some students said that scamming implies a victim, :,vhile others c-ontinued to defend scamming as an alternative to relationships. Overall, this was a very interesting Crosstalk. The members of the panel, as well as members of the audience, all spoke extremely well and raised many interesting issues. Many of the central issues at Union were raised, such as the social life, the academic schedule, and the problems with male/female relationships on campus. It is always good to see students attending forums such as these. Crosstalk provides the opportunity for positive, and sometimes even constructive discussion of which everyone should try t() take advantage. WRITE FOR NEWS! CALL Elise-x4410 Jay-x4153 Becky-37 4-8984

Page 4 CONCORDIENSJS March 2, 1989 .FEATURE ARTICLES The Health and. Fitness Column By JACQUELINE RANDALL It is that time in the ~erm when we need extra energy. The best way to get energy from our food is by eating complex carbohydrates. · By TOM SARTIN! If you have ever worked at a summer camp or as a playground counselor then you know that working with kids can be an extremely rewarding experience. The opportunity I am about to reveal to you, and to those who have not had these experiences but would like too, is to benefit inner-city children. The Fresh Air Fund is a program working out of New York City with an aim to help children of all sorts. This program has two parts; to give the kids an opportunity to attend camp and the other is what the program cans \friendly towns.\ This involves host families from a variety of different locations (13 states) that sponsor the kids in their homes during the summer. The program is free of charge for the kids. It is made possible by fund raising within The Fresh Air Fund. There are a total of 7500 kids in the program ranging in age from 6 to 16. They are from different cultures, different races, and some are handicapped. Yet they are all still kids hoping for a summer of fun and love. Pay attention Union students because this is how you cart help and get involved. The Fresh Air Fund is presently recruiting 175 counselors~ including program specialists Carbohydrates are fuel foods for our body functions .. Carbohydrates increase our ertergy, endurance and .sports performance. · Carbohydrates ru;e made of carbon, hydrogen and oxygen. There are iwo kinds · of carbohydrates: the starches (complex carbohydrates) and the sugars (simple carbo·hydrates}.. Complex carbohydrates are the best source of energy because they are broken down into usable sugar at such a slow rate that they are less likely to stimulate the flow of insulin which tends to make us crave food·. Carbohydrates also keep protein frorn being used for energy needs, so that they can be used primarily for body- building functions. They provide our main source of energy and also provide ·the glucose vital for certain brain functions. Carbohydrates also. assist in digestion and assimilation of foods. They regulate our metabolism and aid in ~he burning of fat. Complex carbohydrates are abundant in rice, bread, cereal, pasta, crackers, fruits, vegetables (corn, squash, potatoes), dried peas, beans, popcorn, and milk. They are a source of dietary fiber. It is important to increase our blood glucose level because the health of our body depends on it. If our blood sugar level doesn't rise, then our brain is deprived of energy and our mental processes are affected and we cannot study. Our brain controls our muscles and if we . don't eat enough energy foods, we will feel weak and shaky. Also, we might feel anxious~ depressed or irritable. We may . get headaches, dizzy spells and< feelings of nausea. When we wake uP for our first class, depending on whether it is an 8:50 or 2:00 class, our blood .contains between 800 and 120 milligrams of glucose in each 100' milliliters of blood. This is a normal range and provides us with feelings of alertness . and well-being. But, if we don't eat, our blood. glucose level gradually falls. Seventy milligrarns/milliliters, is the low end of the normal range and this is when we will probably ·experience feelings of hunger. If we dedde to eat quick-ene:rgy foods such as a Coke or a candy bar (a simple carbohydrate), then our blood sugar level shoots up too quickly and. an insulin over reaction may o.ccur. On tlle other hand, if we decide to eat complex carbohydrates, then our blood sugar level rises to a normal healthy level. After we eat, our blood glucose level returns to nonnal and any extra glucose is stored as glycogen. During the next few hours before we eat again, the stored· glycogen can replenish the glucose supply as the brain and other body cells use it to meet their energy needs. Tofeel good and healthy, w~ Fresh Air Fund and waterfront staff, for summer positions at their four campS in Fishkill, New York. Applicants should have completed freshman year, be at least 18 years old, feel comfortable in the outdoors, and enjoy teaching and working with children. The Fresh Air Fund is looking for students who want more than just a summer job. This is an opportunity that is both challenging and rewarding for those who desire to work with underprivileged kids. The counselors as well as the campers gain new strengths within themselves as they grow and work with each other. Only 2500 of the 7500 children go to camp while the other are involved in the \friendly towns\. At camp, the children and counselors hike, fish, swim, boat, cookout; and sleep under the stars. They also visit the camp's wildlife refuge, model farm, and planetarium. There are four camps sponsored by The Fresh Air Fund in Fishkill, New York. The 3000 acre wilderness camp site h~s provided free summer vacations to over one million inner city children since 1877. must eat h alanced meals including .Protein, fat and .carbohydrat$ in. our diets. Eat a variety of f.r.11its, vegeta,bles, wholegrai:n \b~r.cads and cereals, fish, poultry:, ~ggs, and low fat dairy .product:s. W.e must avoid too much fat, s~turated fat and cholesterol and choose low fat sources of protein. Eat foods with adequate starch and fiber and avoid t()O rnuch sugar and sodium and <!rink alcohol in moderation. The average.Arnerican diet is about 46% ca:.rb()hydrates. But to keep our glycogen stores filled, we sllo\llld try to get 56- 60% of our total calories from complex carb<lbydrates. If you are engaging in serious exercise, 65% is. recommended. We can see how important glucose is fer tl1e functioning of tne brain a:nd other body tissues. Ot:.her ways of maintaining C()e.rgy are through rest and slee(l• If you have a heavy work load this w~k. eat right, getregula:t exercise, fresh air and slee}r. A void extreme activities su<:b as work overload, ·ov-erindulgence, sexual excess, overeating and emotional stress. In order tore h.ealthy and not hurt ourselv~s .. we should be moderate in 011r activities so that we call aaintain energy .and vitality. (lood luck on fmals! If you think y~u would like to contribute al)d btxome involved with . the calll::ps this summer, please call tile following toll free number r;o()n: 1..:800~367- 0003. This tJ.Umber will put you in contact with more information ab()ut The Fresh Air Fund camps and their summer staff positions in addition to aiiswering questions that vou may·fut.ve~ ·

. CONCORDIENSIS March 2,. 1989 Pnge 5 Ollie And Morris Dine Out By STEVE COLE. & -BRETT MALOFSKY Ollie Wid Morris ventured to a place that they didn't have to and enjoyed it. What we mean to say is that we were the happy patrons of a \we deliver\ restaurant. The establishment was No. 1 Chinese Take Out Restaurant. and it still had the grand opening sign taped to the window. {Ah, virgin ten;itory for a critic!) From the outside we could hardly distinguish the restaurant from the laundromat :£!:ext door due to the bright fluorescent lighting and the white sterile linoleum fYoors. Though tbey had a few tables, and posters held up by tape in the comers, take out was their goal. Morris .is used to, yet the flavor was intensely .satisfying. Ollie's, Egg Drop Soup· was also a bit thicker than one would expect and had a mucb yolkier appearance; however, he is not all that picky when it comes to Egg Drop Soup. The shrimp rolls were moderately thick skinned (notice the 'thickness' motif so far), were crispy and the shrimp were large and more prevalent than usual~ whieb was a definite plus. Now, on with the entrees!!! For appetizers we both had shrimp rolls and soup; Morris desired the Hotand Sour while Ollie, a conventionalist, opted for Egg Drop~ The Hot and Sour was a bit thicker than Morris' orange beef was covered in, yes, a thick and pungent orange sauce with a few, hot peppers and sesame seeds thrown over it alL The beef was fried until crunchy, yet still tender on the inside, while the sauce was not too spicy. On the side was a large number of broccoli spears adding nicely to the meal. Once . this was mixed with the steamed dee, complimentary,_ Ollie ~nd Morris dine out thls week at No. 1 Chinese. (Chinese decor cotutesy Phu Le) of course, Morris' meal was more than sufficient to please him, despite the plastic plates, Ollie had General Tso's The T--Word By KRISTIE ARNOLD T ----S. Those of you who can fill in the blanks are all too familiar with this horrific word. For Lhose of you who can't, it is aii eighty page weight that has been over the heads of most. seniors since the beginning of September. For underclassmen,. here is a brief. scenario of what life may be ,like during your senior year. It is impossible to recall the sweet feeling of finishing midterms and not having a care in the world until finals. Some have tried to regain the feeling, but reported that they cannot. One never feels Jinisheq, one never has \nothing\ to do, If one ventures out 0n the _ weekends, guilt sets in. If one - naps or attempts to grab that extra half hour in the morning, sleep eludes him/her because he/she knows that he/she should be writing. To make matters worse, everyone-. friends and strangers-ask for daily reports on how the T-----S is coming. From underclassmen, this is understandable as they can only anticipate the tOiture and are curious, hut from seniors in the same boat, why bring it up? Something inside possesses each of us to ask in order to gleefully absorb the cringe that moves through the body of the fellow t-word sufferer. The day is feared when a lucky individual is able to strike back with the words, \I'M DONE. II ' The senior thesis. tends to encompass the brain, especially during the last month of the second term. The folder (or briefcase in some cases) which envelopes the \masterpiece\ becomes attached to the body of the senior-the grip is finn and unbreakable. Forbidden thoughts begin to flicker through the mind, \What if there is a blackout while l am typing?'' \What if my disk is stolen?\ or worse \What if there is a fire in my apartment and all copies of my thesis and my disks are destroyed, what would I do?'' STOP!!! Young people such as ourselves should not be plagued by such thoughts! The senior thesis writer fr:eq.uen.tly looks perplexed. and has usually developed crow's feet by February. He/She feels more comfortable at the computer center than in his/her own living room, and some have even been known to nap in carpeted roams nearby when their nose continues to hit the GH keys on the computer keyboard. To tell the truth, it is not all that bad. Three twenty page chapters, introductions, conclusions, graphs, reading forty books, numerous articles, conducting sw:yeys, and weekly meetings with one's thesis advisor (\Who's this thesis advisor person that you have been seeing so much of lately, honey?\) is not THAT time consuming. It is worth it, after all, l am sure that it will be a best seller someday. RESIDENT ADVISOR SELECTION PROCESS 1989-90 Informational meetings will be held during the first two weeks of Spring Tenn. Look for posters annoitnci:ng specific iriformation. Applications will be available at The Office of Residence Life and Area Coordinator's Offices. chicken, a favorite of his for many years. The chiden was prepared well but the sauce was a bit different than he expected. Instead of a spicy orange sauce., the sauce was more a sweet and sour with a bit of zip given by hot peppers. the dish included sweet red peppers and other diced-vegetables an sprigs of broccoli here. and there. Ollie was satistiedlmt wonders if the orange chicken that he could have ordered would ba:ve been more- like <th'e·· traditional General's cllicken. ' We .are very excited about this restaurant because the food was excellent, the portions were large, tbe prices· were extremely reasonable ($6.85 for Geperal Tso's Chicken and ·$7.15 for Orange Beef), and ~hey deliver on orders over H5.00. We do not recommend eating in the restaurant itself beca11se it was a cold and sterile environment where people on their \Way to take out food were cons~ntly pa~sing .by. May yout egg rolls_ be many a~d. yoltf troubles be few. Army ROTC: An Investment In The Future By JEFF- KLITZ Army ROTC-. a great way to start. Sounds pretty- silly, but actually it is true •. l am in the Army ROTC program and I believe that because of the program I will be better prepared for the business world. The R01'C program gives many benefits to its cadets. Obviously, there is the military naining: maneuvers. marksmanship, tactics, drill and ceremony, and many other military 1 Skills. Some people feel that these skills have no place in tile business world. I agree that you do not need to know how to build a rope bridge in order to succeed in business, but the skills, and. the organization, that goes along with the learning of these skills is very applicable to the real world. Through. ROTC, I was given the chance to attend the US Army Airborne School at Fort Benning, Gerorgia. Knowing how to Jump out of airplanes, and fly at 1200 feet, will not help you sell stocks, but I learned .much more than just how to jump out of a perfectly good airplane. I had tc deal with 50() totally different individuals. I had to learn bow tP take orders without question. , I had to de things which. 1 did not particularly want to do. These things can be related to the b11siness world. If you think that the real world is just waiting for you to come along, think again. You will have to strive to achieve what you want. Nothing is for free. That sounds pessimistic, but it is true: 1'he Army helps people to become strong and to stand up for th~mselves. Besides investing m your future, why would anyone join ROTC? In my case it was a sense ()[duty. I will admit that this is not the motivating facto-r in most people\s decisi()ns. And although that was my main motivating factor the money is not bad either. The Army is looking for good people and they are willing to pay fer them. There are schol<lrships ranging from 2 years to 4 years. That includes tuition, books, lab fees, and $100 a month spending money. But since tuition at Union is not suppose to go up again, who needs more money. Personally I prefer the Army's guara:ntee money. If you would like to know more about the program or have any questions feel free to 1 contact me. If I can not answer the qt1estion, there are 13 other Anny cadets on campus who will talk with you. WR,ITE FOR FEATURES

/ ) P-;a:::ge=6 ==============~C ....... O\NrCiiO~RJjiENSIS Ma~ell 2, 1:598~'9rJ~itj~ Mm:E'S MERCED.l!;S SERVICE, INC. M.ICHAEL W. CYlJYLO (51'8) 377-2266 349 Antllotfstreet (24 Hr. Towing - 374 .. 1 0~7) Schenectady, NY · Now Hiring Men& Women '12,000 to '50,000 Call now! 1-206-736-7000 <J><t. 120C (Cull rofundouto) CRUISE S,HlP JOBS! ·RENT-A-WEDDING WeCarryAU YourWeddingNeedstrom · Party Tents to Electric Fountains ... Including .•. table linens, punch bowls, ctlampagne buckets, bars, flatware, china, glassware, trays, coffee service, tables, chairs, dance floors ... AND MUCH, MUCH MORE! DUANE RENTALS · 950 State Street, Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (518) 346-3477 THE RED BINS ARE COMING two s;;roce potter 158 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12305 • WHEEL- THROWN STONEWARE Stop hopping around for a special· treat. Join us for .. Dutchman-'s Dinner· Wednesday, March 8th Menu will feature·: Roast Prime ribs of beef Chicken Chablis . - ' . Stuffed Jumbo Shrimp Sign up Early at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. We wish you good luck, on your exams. '' [ wasflt rubbing it in~ I just wanted Eddie to know the score of last nights game.'' Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the way to Chicago with AT&T Long Distance Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. So give him a call. It costs a lot less than you think to let him lmow who's headed for rhe Playoffs. ReaChoutandtouchsorneone~ If youtllike to know more about A1&T products and services, like International Calling and the AT&T card, call us at '1 soo 222-0~00. ATaT- The right choice. I

Page 6 MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. MICHAEL W. CYOYLO (518) 377-2268 349 Anlhot1y Street (24 Hr. Towing- 374.10~7) Schenectady, NY Now Hiring Men&Women '12,000 to '50,000 Call now' 1-206-736-7000 Bxl. 120C iC•II oelunduute) CRUISE SHIP JOBS! ·RENT-A-WEDDING We Carry ALL Your Wedding Needs from Party Tents to Electric Fountains •.. Including ... table linens, punch bowls, champagne buckets, bars, flatware, china, glassware, trays, roffee service, tables, chairs, dance floors ... AND MUCH, MUCH MORE! DUANE RENTALS 950 State Street Schenectady, N.Y. 12307 (518) 346-34n THE RED BINS ARE COMING ftuo SjJroce potter ' ' 158 JAY STREET SCHENECTADY, NY 12305 • WHEEL- THROWN STONEWARE CONCORDIENSIS March 2, 1989 Stop hopping around for a special treat. Join us for Dutchman's Dinner Wednesday, March 8th Menu will feature: Roast Prime ribs ofbeef Chicken Chablis Stuffed Jumbo Shrimp Sign up Early at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. We wish you good luck on your exams. ''I wasnt rubbing it in- I just wanted Eddie to know the score of last nights game.~-, Go ahead and gloat. You can rub it in all the WXf to Chicago with AT&T Long DistaRce Service. Besides, your best friend Eddie was the one who said your team could never win three straight. So give him a call. It costs a lot less than you think to let him know who's headed for the Playoffs. Reach out and touch someone~ If youl:llike to know more about AT&T products and services, like International Calling and the AT&T Card, call us at 1 8()0 222-0300. ATa.T The right choice. r :;

I Any questions about the lecture or about the Christian Science Organization on campus call Kristan x4231 or Eric 382-9688 FRENCH MOVIE Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES ·Something More Than Just· Pictures By GAO LEI g<>vernmeii:t wishes to an advisor. Students in the en<Jourage more young people class can go to the teacher for These pictures are ofNanjing to study at this school (to help or advice, even for Normal University, where become teachers). personal problems. Union Term Abroad students in Union students just cannot During weekdays, lights in C~ina have stayed every fall imagine how early Chinese the donns have to be turned off term since 1986. The campus st11dents get up. It is usually before 12:00 A.M. The is made up of typical around 6 A.M. Some students University wants to make sure traditional Chinese buildings like to do some exercises in the that students do not go to bed with verandas connecting one moming: running, Tai Chi, too late (12:00 A.M. is building to another. Although etc .... Others would do what considered late in China, but it's not the best u11iversity in tlley call morning reading-to it's definitely early at Union). China, students there still have read something (most On the weekends, there are some reasons to feel proud of :probably, English) aloud in the all kinds of activities for themselves because they had to fresh air of early morning. students to get relaxed and to pass a national entrance Classes begin at 7:30. enjoy themselves, although examination, and There are about 2 hours some students stiil work as approximately four out of five l:letween morning classes and hard as they do on weekdays. examinees fail it afternoon classes. Having Students hardly drink alcoholic The exam is difficult and gotten up so early, students beverages even though there is lengthy. lt lasts for three days, need to take a nap after lunch. no minimum legal !lrinking with two exams a day. I:f 111 the evening, the library and age in China. students make it into college, classrooms are full of students The University does not their futures seem brightened: doing their \night-studies.\ encourage students to have a they will be provicled with Chinese students do not have boyfriend or girlfriend although good jobs by the as many tests as Union it is not written in the school government-career counseling students. Instead, they only rules. It is mutually understood is something they've never have a midterm and a final in by everyone. The basic intent heard of. They do not'have to each class. Thus, great is that the school lookforjobsafter graduation. emphasis is placed on. doing· administrators want the· Tuiti()n is paid by the well on each test. students to concentrate on their government. Col.lege housing Students having the same studies. Some students do not is free. Almost all of the major are placed in the same care and date discreetly. college .students live on \class.\ All the students in the campus. The dorms, however, class have the same course In class, Chinese students are are not as spacious as Fox · schedule,' which is prescribed quiet. They seldom ask any House ()I North College~ Due by the school. They are true questions during lecture. to the large population, the \classmates\ in that they take Passive learning is what housing problem in China is the same courses together mostly takes place. whereas serious. One donn room might during !~Je four years they study . many Union College students be sharoo by 6 to 8 students, so at college. They really get to are accustomed to active it's only a place for sleeping, know each other quite well. . learning. . not for studying. Every month , Each class has four students Interested? Want io know students receive an allowance who are each in charge of one more? Apply for Term Abroad· from the University because of the following: study, life, to China next year (sorry, you -Nanjing Normal l(niversity is activity, and sports. For each have just missed the deadline a school for teachers, and the . class, a teacher is appointed as for this coming fall term). ·~~----~~~~~--~--~~ ·CHUC ROO BASEMENT OF HUMANITIES WORDPROCESSING AND WORDPERFECT CLASSES USEHI'RINTING FOR 1 C~PY D(tf lATRIX FOR JliJLTIPLE COPIE~ FREE!!! \La Traversee de Paris\\ by Claude Autant-Lara (1956) with Jean ~asim, Bounvi!'and Louis de Fumes Monday, March 6th Rosile Lounge 406CC 7:00 P.M. * * * * ITAliAN MOVIE 61ULIEITR OEGLI SPIRITI (Juliet of the Spirits) By Federico Fellini (With English 8ubtitJes) Tuesday, March 7 - 7:00 P.M. CC4~6 * * * * . INDIAN BLANKET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X90, And Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentic Indian Design Each one Personally Blessed By Wise Owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reservation $150. Value For Only $39. Postpaid satisfaction Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed By Indian Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help urgently Ne.eded By Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Owl. Drowning creek Reservation, Rn BOx 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364

CONCORDIENSIS March 2, 1989 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Something More Than Just Pictures - • '' ,.... ' -~ •' < • ',.,. \'. .. - . . · .. -~;;,.-... ',... ,Jt (~f'#'. -· .. By GAO LEI These pictures are of Nanjing Normal University, where Union Term Abroad stHdents in China have stayed every fall term since 1986. The campl!ls is made up of typical traditional Chinese buildings with verandas connecting one building to another. Although it's not the best university in China, smdents there still have some reasons to feel proud of themselves because they had to pass a national entrance examination, and approximately four out of five examinees fail it. The exarn is difficult and lengthy. It lasts for three days, with two exams a day. If stwdents make it into college, their futures seem brightened: they will be provided with good jobs by the govemmen t--career counseling is something they've never heard of. They do not have to look for jobs after graduation. our own. Produced by The Christian Science Board of Lectureship Tuition is paid by the government. College housing is free. Almost all -of the college students live on campus. The dorms, however, are not as spacious as Fox House or North College: Due to the large population, the housing problem in China is serious. One dorm room might be shared by 6 to 8 students, so it's only a place for sleeping, not for studying. Every month students receive an allowance from the ·University because Nanjing Normal University is a school for teachers, and the March 5, 1 :30 p.m. March 9, 12:30 a.m. (following NjgbHjne) WTEN TV-10 Any questions about the lecture or about the Christian Science Organization on campus call Kristan x4231 or Eric 382-9688 ··- : .. ·. . . ·. ·: ::·j~~ :~~ ::\~~;~~:=\~~~~:~!1~:~~~\~~~l~:\1~~:-~~~: 1 : :;~:l\\:~~tm;~rj=: := ~ ::\;~~:: -:: :r:~ ~~ :~ -:~:~ :·: .: ~ ~ :· ::: = ~~~~-= ~:~~- :=:: ~ ~ :~:: ~~= ~ ~==: :~~;- -:~\:~ . . ' ··::: -;.·:.-:.. . . ·.···-~·:·,_•,::':,-::r~n.::~;·Fis:a.rs.'•~·-.····:,:,· .. J\i1:JJ.:FI:CFI~~::::--··:a,·N·o·· 4:30 PM SO.CIAL · ~CIENCES BUILDING FRENCH MOVIE \La Traversee de Paris\\ by Claude Autant -Lara (1956) with Jean ~asim, Bounvil and Louis de Fumes Monday, March 6th Rosile Lounge 406CC 7:00 P.M. * * * * IT ALlAN MOVIE GIULIETTR DEGLI SPIRITI (Juliet of the Spirits) By Federico Fellini (With English Subtitles) Tuesday, March 7 - 7:00 P.M. CC406 * * * * government wishes to encourage more young people to study at this school (to become teachers). Union students just cannot imagine how early Chinese students get up. It is usually around 6 A.M. Some studeFltS like to do some exercises in the morning: running, Tai Chi, etc .... Others would do what they call morning reading-to read something (most probably, English) aloud in the fresh air of early morning. Classes begin at 7:30. There are about 2 hours between morning classes and afternoon classes. Having gotten up so early, students need to take a nap after luRch. In the evening, the library and classrooms are full of students doing their \night-studies.\ Chinese students do not have as many tests as Union students. Instead, they oRly have a midterm and a final in each class. Thus, great emphasis is placed on doing well on each test. Students having the same major are placed in the same \class.\ All the students in the class have the same course schedule, which is prescribed by the school. They are true \classmates\ in that they take the same courses together during the four years they study at college. They really get to know each other quite well. Each class has four students who are each in charge of one of the following: study, life, activity, and sports. For each class, a teacher is appointed as all advisor. Students in the class can go to the teacher for help or advice, even for personal problems. During weekdays, lights in the dorms have to be turned off before 12:00 A.M. The University wants to rnake sure that students do not go to bed to<l late (12:00 A.M. is considered late in China, but it's definitely early at Union). On the weekends, there arc aU kinds of activities for students to get relaxed and to e11joy themsel vcs, although some students still work as hard as they do on weekdays. Students hardly drink alcoholic beverages even though there is no minimum legal drinking age in China. The University docs not encourage students to have a boyfriend or girlfriend although it is not written in the school ruJes. It is mutually understood by everyone. The basic intent is that the school administrators want the students to concentrate on their studies. Some students do not ewe and date discreetly. In class, Chine5e students are quiet. They seldom ask any questions during lecture. Passive learni11g is what mostly takes place, whereas many Union College students are accustomed to active learning. Interested? Want to know more? Apply for Term Abroad 1() China next year (sorry, you l!ave just missed the deadline f()r this coming fall term). ·CHUC ROON BASEMENT OF HUM.AN1TIES WORDPROCESSING AND W()RDP:ERFECT CLASSES UmRINTING FOR 1 COPY DOT .IIATR.IX FOR Jl1J1TIPLE COY.IE~ FREE!H INDIAN B:LANKET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 72X:90, And Choice of Blue or Brown. Authentl{ Indian Design Each one Person ally Blessed By Wise owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reservation $150. Value For Only $39. F'ostpald satisfaction Guaranteed, The Only Blanket Offered To The Public Blessed BV Indian Medicine Man Your Order Provides Help urgently Needed By Tribe, Please Write: Chief Wise Owl, Drowning creek Resetvatlon, R#2 BOx 108, Maxton, N.C. 28364

Page 8 CONCORDJENSIS March 2, 1989 ANNOUNCEMENT ANNOUNCING- The Philosophy Department announces a · competition for essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Celia Glaubach Prize - awarded to a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by submitting a work on one of the following . subjects: literary and textual critism of B:ibl.ical subjects; development and production of a short st<>ry or_ play based on the Bible; Biblical archaeology; Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. An automotive service center where the emphasis is -on service -We offer ce.rtified technicians on duty until midnight Monday-Friday .-Full Service Citgo Gasoline (at self-se·rv-ice prices) Availabe M-F 6 am til midnight; Sat. 7 am ~ 8 pm;; Sun. gam -7 pm. TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR COUPON SPECIALS! . CALL TODAY FOR AN APPOINMENT. The Milton Hymes Sternfeld Prize- awarded for the best original essay in philosophy by a member of the senior class. . Niskayuna TIRE & SERV:ICE CENTER Entries for either prize competition should be submitted pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden, Humanities 215, no later than 12:00 noon . on March 29, 1989. The author's name and campus ~ddress sbould be enclosed in a separate envelope keyed to tbe pseudonym. • •• .J<IVo .,, .. ··~ . ' 1 .. When my friends and I graduated from high school, we all took part-time jobs to pay -for college. They ended up in car washes and hamburger joints, putting in long hours for little pay. · . · Not me. My job takes just one . weekend a month and two weeks a year. Yet, I'm earning $18,000 for college. Because I joined my local Army National Guard. · They're the people who help our state during emergencies like hurri- canes and floods,. They're also an importan. t part of our country's military defense. So, sincei'm helping them do such an important job, they're helping me . make it through schooL 1'501 Balltown Road (Corner N·ott Street) SCHENECTADY•PHONE 374·9751 24 Hour Towing As soon as I finished Advanced Training, the Guard gave me a cash bonus of$2,000. I'm also getting another $5,000 for tuition and books, thanks to theN ew GI Bill. _ · Not to mention my monthly Army Guard paychecks. They'll add up to more than $11,000overthe six years I'm in the Guard. And if I take out a college loan, the Guard will help me pay it back-- up to $1,500 a year, plus interest . It all adds. UJ? to $1~,000--- or n:ore -for college for JUSt a httle of my ttme. And that's a heck of a better deal than any car wash will give you. THE GUARD CAN HELP PUT· YOU THROUGH COLLEGE, TOO. SEE YOUR LOCAL RECRUITER FOR.QETAILS, CALL TOLL·FREE 800-638-7600~ OR MAIL THIS COUPON. *ln Hawaii: 737-5255; Puerto Rico: 721-4550; Guam: 477-9957; Virgin IslamJs <St. Croix): 773·6438; New jersey: 800-452·5794. In Alaska, consult your local phonedirectory, · © 1985 United States Government as represented by the Secretary of Defens.e. All rights reserved. · r-~-----~~~~-·--~~~~--, I MAIL TO: Army National Guard, P.O. Box 6000', Clifton, NJ 07015 1 I NAME DMDF I' I l I ADDRESS I : CITY/STATE/ZIP : I AREA CODE PHONE us CITIZEN. 0 YES 0 NO I ; SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER : I OCCUPATION I I STUDENT 0 HIGH SCHOOL 0 COLLEGE I I PRIOR MILiTARY SEJ!¥1CE DYES 0 NO 1: I \BRANCH RANK · ... AFM/MOS NationaiGuard I I l}fflrHf~fiOH vouVor.lJ(loiTMR..V PAOVtlE,HCt.lJOtHQ. v~ MC!At. SECI..Rit\''NutMJl , · ( ' '\''\'\\O'OOA<CR\,MIII<O\\\PO!ESONlV V()URSoclloi.\C\\'rY......... A 1:CWJC06()3NP l ~=o_::vz;.:r:cwSE.U::,'::=IOUac:w.:_ _ .-... __ ..._ ~ ~ _ ~ _. j Army ationalliuard Americans At Their Best. •

Page 9 SCIENCE & TECHNOL.OGY Treating 'Sewage Using. A.rtificial Wetlands . By KEVIN GARDNER Science and Technology ·Editor those little critters that we've already kicked out of 'their homes. This is how they work: Small towns have been Picture a series of cascading looking toward a new ponds, the last pond (Le. the alternative for treating lowest in elevation) feeding wastewater~ It is cheaper, as into a stream. The first pond effec.t·ive as traditional accepts the raw sewage. As the treatment, enhances the-quality sewage is introduced it is of our environment, an,d aet;ated-(air is bubbled into it) provides for an increase of to stimulate aerobic digestion wildlife. Wetlands across of organiCs. In other words, the America :have been destroyed little bugs that consume either for development (the human waste ·need air. The Rotterdam mall}, for .disposal · waste. will have a- certain sites, or for farming. Wetlands residence time so the reaCtions. are very productive, and: provide will be comple~, and then will a haven for birds and small filter through the sediment and animals as well as for many through a marsh down to the species of plantS. A. wetland is ne~t pond. This filtration a generato-r of life. The process removes any particulate destruction of these nationwide pollutants which are then either has had tremendous effects on metabolized by .. the roots of the s.tatus of our wiltllife. the plants· or absorbed onto the use. df wetlands as -natural - soil. This process is repeated as treatment plants has 'p(Jsitive many times as is nec.essary j , implications with respect to all -depending on amo'l:lllt -of flow, Problem of the Week What is the right-most digit of seven to the seven to the seven.th power {i.e., seven to the forty-ninth power)? quality of influent, nature of influent, and desired quality of influent. . Unfortuaately, the main proponent of this treatment system is its cost, which is anywhere from one-tenth to one-half the cost' of a traditional treatment plant. In addition, the cost of operation and maintenance is also extremely low. The reasons for these low costs are that: 1. All you have to do is push some dirt. m:ound to form· these ponds instead of excavating ·and pouring concrete and constructing ail the buildings Science withoiJt 1ectmology for a conventi()n.al plant. 2. There are no rnai11Lenance costs because it is a :Pllrely natural purification process. The main pr<lbl.ern with the wetlands is that they take a lot of space (r-eb ti ve to a traditional pla11t). Wetlands take about 20 a~res for a flow of one million gaJI<Jns a day, which is the waste,..,ater created by about 19,000 Americans. In Kentucky, 3· town's two-· lagoon sy.ste111 was not meeting fedentl stta11dards. To 'build a traditi()nal plant would have cost about.SS million; the wetlands sys te:m that was :constructed cost the .town .$260,000. In additioon, the two , lagoons where people would go to shoot rats and . dump trash is now a park vi~ited by cranes, wild turkey, deer, and all the little critters you d<ln't see. Says one resident, \You'd never know it was a sewage treatment plant, people go there and park.\ Outside of Chicago there is a $10.2 million project to clean the Des Plaines River. Wetlands are being created to divert 49% of the river. The water will travel through the wetlands and will be purified natural'ly, and then retiJflled to the river further downstream. Congratulations to Benedikt Blunschi, who won the ten dollar .J>rize for tne sixth Problem of the Week. Our apologies to Janet Anderson, Benedikt Blunschi, Laszlo Boroczky, Rita·Clement, and Neil Garrod who submitted correct solutions to the previous problem but were accidentally left off last week's list. Interested in informing the college community abol;l t developments in your f~~eJ<I of study? Contribute to the Sci.ence · & Technology sec1ion. Artificial wetlands are a fantastic alternative to traditional treatment schemes. The cost o{ construction is ve,ry. low. as is the cost of maintenance, Wetlands can be used to clean rivers, municipal wastewaters, industrial wastewaters, and farmland runoff (pesticides and animal waste). Also very important is that wetlands create wetlands; an essenntiallink in the United States' eeosystem. Essential to the beauty of our lands and the existence of our wildlife. -Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the · Mathematic Department Office between the hours of 9ani - llam and 2pm - 4pm, Monday through Friday. · The first correct solution submitted will receive the (Science Majors: Notice the size <of U\)e personals section compared with thi.s section.) Contact Kevin Gardner at 37 4-1543, ill C. E. office or at Concordiensis. . . - weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solutions will be posted . . on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106 . ·. . IBM USER GROUP The IBM User Group is a n!awl.y formed group for the purl?ose, among other things, to J;ri:'ovide a forum for product presentatJ.ons, to .arrange for visits frol\1 vendors to adqress software and hardware issues, to ailow users doing interesting and different or even _ju:st useful things with thel!r microcomputer:::; to share that in-formation. The first gr~;>up meeting was held.February 7th in CC409 .. P7ter Prosper Professor of Ecor1omics., was tne guest speaker gJ.vJ.ng many )leipfU:l hints and other information for using Word Perf.ect 5.0. The next meeting will. be held, Thursday, March 9th in Statistic;:s Lab 001 Soc;:ial Science Bldg .. noon to 1:00 p.m. The pro~ram WJ.ll be a software swap with Doug I<le,in, Associat7 Professor J.n Economics. Please bring a formatted bla~k dJ.skette. !>Lease indioC~,te your interest in this group by_~i.lling out the fat lowing infor_rn.a.tion, and _reti.lr:t'f to George SchJ.ller, Graduate and continuing\ Studies, W~l.l:s.House. ot . · Dessert and. Beverages will be ,.served --------~-~------~-·--~---~------------------- .. -'!\\ __________ ':\\\ ______ _ {leal\OD this 1111e, iDoU bollom ·hall) Na.me.: Dept • .jBox II: l?ho11e: i. · A.te yeu interested in a user Group1_...,__..... attend?_....--_ would you 2. -Is ThUJ:;sday, 12:00 to 1:00 p.m. a good time for you to meet? --- Bring your lunch. Al.:ternat.e day __.....~__.... Tim·e ~-~ J.. What wo.uld you ·like the group to focus on?_.__._.. ___ ,....,.__~-----..-...--------'-'--------_,__ 4. Would you like Deines ........__,..,. Hands on -~ __ speakers -------- other r~p sessions s.. commel'ltS UNION COLLEGE ·DEPARTMENT OF BIO-LOGICAL SCIENCES THE lliOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB present SiEPHEN LA BONNE DEPARTMENT OF BIOCUEMISTRY University of Mississippi \Mol e~ular Genetics of early ne111'11.~enesis in Drcsophila\ Thursday, March 2, 1989 4:40 pm SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHEMENTS 4:30 Dr. L~ Bonne is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department.

. Page 10 CONCOR1JIENS1S March. 2, 1989 . . ·~ ..,:. ·.- : .. <lr11nrnrbirttsis Founded at Union Cflllege 1817 ----- LET·TERS .~ Support Group Extends Thanks , · Nott Restoration · . To the Editors: for au his help ~dac:ivice. other Monday students. can get . : together informally and> \rap\ about their problems. The restoration of the Nott M~Vmorial has· been the topic of debate for several years at Union. The most recent controversy has been Vice- President for Institutional Planning Jack Maranville's dismissal of the U.S. Department of the Interior's report stating: \stabilization measures to protect the Nott Memorial should be undertaken immediately. u Maranville questioned the validity of the report claiming that, to his knowledge, no formal investigation was made. · · · I wQuld like to thank all those who helped witb the starting of the student support group. I would especially like to thank Residence Life and most importantly Dean Wood Thanks to the students who showed up on Monday night. It was a success, and many students got the opportunity to express their anxieties. I am hoping that this will become a biwweekiy event. On every Ag~_in many thanks to Residence Life for making .the mailbox fliers and distributing them. It was much appreciated. Alison Williams '90 Library Vandalism Appalls S~dent . To The Editors: the mahogany tables provided for Union citizens to read or Walking up the Phi Beta study on. Not only is this While specific structural threats are uncertain, it is · · apparent that the Nott's windows are broken, its steps are cracked, bonding between stones is missing, and tiles have fallen from the roof. It is also apparent that it i Kappa staircase in Schaffer action indicative of a terrific. This Saturday I felt embarrassed and ashamed to be a fellow student to a person who could commit such an act is seldom used and that many current students have never even been in this magnificent building. The Nott Memorial, completed in 1903, was na.n'led after the College's fourth p:resident, Eliphalet Nott. · The architect, Nott's grandson and a Union aluiilllus Edward Tuckerman Potter, was a leader of the Victorian Gothic revival in the United States. The building's oddity (it is the only sixteen sided building in the western hemisphere) is surpassed only by its magnificence. The interesting outer appearance only . begins to hint at the awe inspiring beauty found inside-if one disregards the cracks, holes, and the section that's been condemned. . The Nott is literally and figuratively the center of the College. It is a symbol of Union. ~It is also a symbol of the distinctiveness the College has sought since its founding by setting such precedents as being the frrst college in the country to offer an engineering degree. Space is precious on this tiny campus. From a practical standpoint ~s well as a sentimental <?ne, the Nott needs to be restored and. utilized. Maranville believes that there is no structural urgency, and that the added cost of increased ~eterioration is negligable. \ This is debatable. What is certain is that the Nott will not be part of thousands of students' experience at . Union. This is not negligable. It is rumored that the Administration is waiting for the College's bicentennial in 1995, when they can decoriously announce the coptplete restoration of the building. While cerainly a date that promises good publicity for the Administration's responsibility in restoring this historical landmark, it is offensive to current and recent students. 'rhe College is planning a public display of sentimentality while lacking it in actuality. The restoration job is estimated to take three years to complete. There is no need to wait to begin it. Maranville states that students incorrectly speak of the Nott being res~ored, when in actuality it has to be renovated to accommodate its future pui'pose. This decision of the building's future function, he states, is somewhat responsible for postponing reconstruction. However, \renovations\ will be, presumably, primarily interior. The uncertainty of these future renovations in no way justifies not fixing holes in the dome so rain continues to leak in, further deteriorating . the walls. The College has to bite tne bullet eventually. The Nott won't go away; it may just crumble. The estimated cost for the Nott's restoration is $6 million. Administrators have expressed concern about establishing its eligibility for federal money as the College will forfeit an uncertain amount of control over the building. Also, doubt has been expressed at how much money is actually available. Presumably, soliticing funds from alumni for restoration of this intrinsic part of their alma mater would be relatively easy. The class of 1981's senior gift was money to restore the Nott, and there is a strong chance that this year's senior gift will be the same. Students have , demonstrated that the Nott is important. There are many ideas of how best to utilize the Nott in the future and how to best secure funds for complete renovate. But uncertainty of its future is not a justification for letting it deteriorate, and denying its magnificence to thousands of students. · library Saturday afternoon, 1 lack of maturity, it is also a was appalled to find· an instancte slap in the face. to those of vandalism hitherto rare at faculty, administrators and Union College. Someone had students ·who seek to proVide . carved their initials in. one of _ us all with something \extra\. I hope that I never have · occasion to observe such actions again at Union College. Benjamin M. Auslander '90 DISTlN·GUISH·ED MEMBERS OF THE CON·GORDtE.N.SlS B.·. OAR,D AND STAFF: . - ' . . Mandatory Meeting Today At 4:30pm .. -Concordiensls Offices, 3rd Floor C.C. Elections ,For Edltor-ln-Chi:.ef Will Be Held. The M.eeting Wit.l Last 45 Minutes. .:.._THE PRESENT EDITORS-IN-CHIEF' STAYJNGIN SCHENECTADY THIS SUMMER? LOOKING FOR A JOB? COMETOTHE SUMMER JOB FAIR· .IN TilE COLLEGE CENTER TUES., MARCH 7 10:30- 1:00 TALK WITH PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYERS ABOUT SUMMER . JOBSAND INTERNSHIPS IN THE LOCAL AREA. ·LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILy I REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD •• 1 ( t t ( , l

. Page 10 CONCORDlENSlS March 2, 1989 Nott Restoration The restoration of the Nott Memorial has been the topic of debate for several years at Union. The most recent controversy has been Vice-President for Institutional Planning Jack Maranville's dismissal of the U.S. Department of the Interior's report stating: \stabilization measures to protect the Nott Memorial should be undertaken immediately.\ Maranville questioned the validity of the report claiming that, to his knowledge, no formal investigation was made. · While specific structural threats are uncertain, it is apparent that the Nott's windows are broken, its steps are cracked, bonding between stones is missing, and tiles llave fallen from the roof. It is also apparent that it is seldom used and that many current students have never even been in this magnificent building. The Nott Memorial, completed in 1903, was named after the College's fourth president, Eliphalet Nott. The architect, Nott's grandson and a Union alumnus Edward Tuckerman Potter, was a leader of the Victorian Gothic revival in the United States. The building's oddity (it is the only sixteen sided building in the western hemisphere) is surpassed only by its magnificence. The interesting outer appearance only begins to hint at the awe inspiring beauty found inside-if one disregards the cracks, holes, and the section tllat's been condemned. The Nott is literally and figuratively the center of the College. It is a symbol of Union. It is also a symbol of the distinctiveness the College has sought since its founding by setting such precedents as being the first college in the country to offer an engineering degree. Space is precious on this tiny campus. From a practical standpoint as well as a sentimental one, the Nott needs to be restored and utilized. Maranville believes that there is no structural urgency, and that the added cost of increased deterioration is negligable. This is debatable. What is certain is that the Nott will not be part of thousands of students' experience at Union. This is not negligable. It is rumored that the Administration is waiting for the College's bicentennial in 1995, when they can decoriously announce the complete restoration of the building. While cerainly a date that promises good publicity for the Administration's responsibility in restoring this historical landmark, it is offensive to current and recent students. The College is planning a public display of sentimentality while lacking it in actuality. The restoration job is estimated to take three years to complete. There is no need to wait to begin it. Maranville states that students incorrectly speak of the Nott being restored, when in actuality it has to be renovated to accommodate its future purpose. This decision of the building's future function, he states, is somewhat responsible for postponing reconstruction. However, \renovations\ will be, presumably, primarily interior. The uncertainty of these future renovations in no way justifies not fixing holes in the dome so rain continues to leak in, further deteriorating the walls. The College has to bite the bullet eventually. The Nott won't go away; it may just crumble. The estimated cost for the Nott's restoration is $6 million. Administrators have expressed concern about establishing its eligibility for federal money as the College will forfeit an uncertain amount of control over the building. Also, doubt has been expressed at how much money is actually available. Presumably, soliticing funds from alumni for restoration of this intrinsic part of their alma mater would be relatively easy. The class of 1981's senior gift was money to restore the Nott, and there is a strong chance that this year's senior gift will be the same. Students have demonstrated that the Nott is important. There are many ideas of how best to utilize the Nott in the future and how to best secure funds for complete renovate. But uncertainty of its future is not a justification for letting it deteriorate, and denying its magnificence to thousands of students. ' LETTERS Support Group Extends Thanks To the Editors: I would like to thank all those who helped with the starting of the student support group. I would especially like to thank Residence Life and most importantly Dean Wood Library V To Tile Editors: Walking up the Phi Beta Kappa staircase in Schaffer library Saturday afternoon, I was appalled to find an instance of vandalism. hitherto rare at Union College. Someone had carved their initials in one of for all his help and advice. Thanks to the students wh.o showed up on Monday 11ig1Jt. lt was a success, and ma11y students got the oppm:runity t(l) express their anxieties. I arn hoping that this will bec<Jrne a bi-weekly event. On every other Monday students can get togetller informally and \rap\ about their problems. Again many thanks to Residence Life for making the mailbox fliers and distributing them. It was much appreciated. Alison Williams '90 andalism App·alls Student the mahogany tables pr()1'Jicled for Union citizens t0 r~a(i <lr study on. Not only is tltis actio11 indicative of a te-r-rific lack of maturity, it is also a slap in the face tG tb.o se faculty, administratGrs and students who seek to pruvi<ie us all with something '\e:xtra\. This Saturday I felt embarrassed and ashamed to be a fellow student to a persoN who could commit such an act. I hope that I never have occasion to observe such actions again at UnioN College. Benjamin M. Auslander '90 DISTIN GU:ISHED MEMBERS OF RDlENSIS BOA'RD AND STAFF: THECONCO Mandator y M.eeting Today At 4:30pm. ensi~s Offices, 3:rd Floor C. C. or Editor-ln-Chtief Will Be Held. Concordi Elections F The Me STAYING IN SCHENECTADY THIS SUMMER? LOOKING FOR A JOB? COME TO THE SUMMER JOB FAIR IN THE COLLEGE CENTER TUES., MARCH 7 10:30 \ 1:00 TALK WITH PROSPECTIVE EMPLOYERS ABOUT SUMMER JOBS AND INTERNSHIPS IN THE LOCAL AREA. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT ' I NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD eting Will Last 45 Minutes. -THE PRESENT EDITORS-IN-CHIEF - • T c t1 t1 c y \ fl p s v e s c s s f ( f 1 I l ] 'I

.. Delta Chi Presents the Other Side. To ·the Editors: :\so. I gue&s· it's final. Delta Chi is history. It seems like they basically deserved it.~' If this is the impression of Delta Cbi~s housing situati,on .which you inferred from the· facts which have been publicly released thenread.on. it should prove-enlightening. 'Fhere are several rather • significant points to this issue with which' we must take exception. . The most significant of these are the facts re1ated to the. occQpancy level's of our house over tile pastf several years. Firstly, the 91.8% occupancy level q)loted for other Greeks on campus is due, largely. to the fact that fraternities and sororities in Fox and · Davison have moveable fire doors. This allows them to change the size of the house to accommodate. any mernl)ership level, resulting in 100% occupancy. Furthermore, the fraternities which own their ow.n houses are exempt from the housing requirements.; The chart which appeared in last week's article in tbe Concordiensis was a ·copy of one whic!\ was given to our resident at his· first meeting with the SAC. The chart verifies the figure of .64% occupancy quoted in the articl~~ The reason for this is that the chart fails to recognize brothers orl terms abroad. ·. - In· the past we have been e~pli:citly informed by_ the administration that members on terms abroad would _not negatively impact our occupancy standing as it would be unfair to make students choose between the survival of their 'f;ratemity and one of tlle greatest academic opportunities which Union has to offer. If one looks at the revised chart published in this article it is cleat that our memership is C()flSiderably higher, than 64% and will reach 100% next fall, exceeding the housing requirement by 5%. The other ~ point which the chart bring$ out is that the phase-in period of tlte ;housing requirement )JOlicy ends next year. not in have only housed. 8 additional students this year as the 28 Delta Chi members would have entered the lottery system or been iforced off c~pus.' the '88-'89 period. Before the Finally, I must emphasize wlicy was initiated we were in the fact that the decision to compliance with the housing deny Delta Chi housing is, in requirements and when it is in no way, the result of an fun effect next fall we wiii infraction of the school's again be in compliance, policies, or a disciplinary provided we a:re given the action. In the 5 years (not due chance. to academic dismissals) that I The 100% occupancy figure have been at Union I have :re.presents brothers and never .seen the house in better associate members (pledges) standing. In a period of time who will--;he living in. the · which has seen numerous house . next ft,\'11, and not infractions of school policies, independents as last week's · not to mention state and federal artiCle suggested. While we laws, ·On campus, Delta ·Chi have, in the past. bad friends ·Of has committed no crimes and the fraternity living as has been steadily improving independents in the house this over the years. Our academic will not he necessary (or standing is shown by the fact possible) next fall. Iri. r-esponse that we held the second highest to Dean Mammola's statement house .GPA on campus last that hQJ!sing compatible fall. Furthermore, we will have independents at Delta Chi 0 debt to the school at the end would be \defeating the lottery of this ~erm, we have 2 very system,\ 1 must point out that strong pledge classes. and we Delta Clli tanks eve11 below work with Meafs'-On-Wheels Hickock as the least desirable every week on top of our !lousing on camp~s and would annual Charity Tie-Dye certainly ·be no ()De's lottery -Cabaret · choice if they were 1tot either friends of the house or one of the most unlucky lottery players. Raymond House is not a pretty place to live, 'but it is bill's and we like it Along these same Lines, I must .also· :re~pond ,to the bean's statement that our occupancy has ]?een \forcing students to live off campus.\ l hardly feel thatth~re are many students who would rather live in one of Raymond's 10~x 15' cublicles, for $745/term, than in an off-campus a)Jartment which costs about $300/month and offers privacy and kitchen facilities. Personally, I would have lived off~campus as an upperclassman had it not been for the housing requirements .. Furthermore~ making Delta Chi an independent dorm would So what's all this fuss about? If the issue truly revolves around occcupancy levels. , we have enough members to completely fill the house next fall, and we are preparefi to produce 36 signed housing contracts at the end of · this term to prove it. If there is some other issue at hand here, we are certainly at a loss to identify it. We are strong academically, strong socially, and committed to perpetuating a house which we fec1 has a lot ' to offer its members, the campus, and the community. To evict us now would be to destroy the exact product which the administration's policies were aimed at creating. Eric S. Turer '89 Delta Chi Occupancy Report of 36 Total Year 89-90 '88-89 87-88 86-87 Fall TA 1 7 5 1 Fall Total 37 28 32 28 *T.A. ('l'er.ms.Alroad) Occ...(Occu.pancy). Winter Winter . Spring Spring Ave. T.A Total ·T A Total 3 1 7 28 0 26 0 29 0 O>urtesy Delta Chi 27 26 28 Oce. 36.0 27.7 28.0 28.3 Ave. Occ.% 100% 77% 78% 79% Required Occ.% 95% 90% 85% 80% 1988-89 SPRING 'TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring temi. classl}s will begin QO: MONDAY, MARCH 27th. Stu.dent schedules will be distributed to student mailboxes located in the College Center prior to the·begiilning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy of their class schedl}le will be able to secure a copy ·at the Fieldhouse on .the first day of classes. Formal registration will take place in the Fieldhouse on MONDAY and TUESDAY, MARCil 27th md 28th. Students are reminded that completion of the formal registrati.011 procedure coo.sists Of the fanowing steps: · 1) Picking up their registtation·packet. 2) .Filling it ou.t and making any necessary correctioos to the data. 3) Droppirig'it intlie designated boxes. . .. · . · This pl'()tess is required of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM n:_my ARE IN ATIENDANCE AT UNION CO;LLEGE, regardless <>f whether or not they have fmalized their schi;dule cr have paid forth~ term .. Failote to complete your registration packet may jeopardize fmancial ~ida wards and academic credit RegiStration packets turned in after FRIDAY, MARCH 31st, will be C<lllSidered LATE an<l. a fme of$:ZS will be assessed· NQ EXCEPTIONS! If you anticipate returning to school late, ~ pi.ease noitify the Registrar's Offic:e immed_iatelyl PI?vided \:fiere is alegi~a~ ~on, we can th~ give yo_u an extens.ion to 1 hand in your registrdon packet wtthout bemg penlllized. It ts your-responstbihty, however, to notify your mstructors if you I . are late relllming to classes. . . ht addition to fonnal registration, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at the Fieldhoose . , on Monday, March 27th and on Tuesday, March 28th UNTIL 3:00P.M., and thereafter, beginning on Wednesday, Mareh 1 29th, at the Registrar's Office lOOtted in Whitaker House. The l11st day to declare a· oourse \PASS-FAIL\ is FRIDAY, · : MARCH.3l sL The last day for making schedule changes (adds, drops, section changes, etc,) with~t \special permission\ provided the eoorse is still open, ·is FRIDAY, APRll. 7th. Any coorse dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of ''W\ on the student's transcript. (It is strongly reccminended that you speak with the instructor of arty course that you add if you've missed the fttst week of classes.) . A representative of the Bosiness Office will beavallable at the Fieldhouse on Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28th, ~ to handle lllte payment of tenn bills and. to help !llSolve any hilling problems. After Tuesday, th~y will be back in their office · located oo. the fliSt floor of the Adinitlistl'ation Building. · I PLEASE NOTE: REGISTRATION WlLL Cll.ASE AT 3:00 P,M •. ON TUESDAY, MARCH 28TH. IT WILL RESUME ' ONWEDNESDAY.MARCH29TH AT THI;! REGIS'l'RAR.'S OFFICE LOCA'rEO IN WHITAKER HOUSE. Page 11 LETTERS Delta C·hi Trustee Appeals To the Editors: The Alumni Board of Trustees (ABT) of the Union Chapter of Delta Chi feels it must lodge its formal appeal in this open forum of the Union community, since one. was granted befo-re the governing body which is making the recommendation. Our alumni, as a group, are in awe -of the rapidity and su'btlety which have characterized the administration's actions t() banish our fraternity • at its strongest point of the last IS yeats. There was expressed surprise on the part of the administration to see alumni involvement as of Monday, February 20, the day Dean Wood received the recommendation from the SAC. That, the elusive formal procedure which was followed, and the lack of an appeals process for such a profound action combine to cause an unsettling emotion among us. What is more hewilderinng is the change of attitude in how supportive the administration has been in boosting our membership in the first two years of the implementation .. of the Student Forum policy, compared with its . i\'}transigency in allowing ns to prove that we had fulfil1ed our quota this third year. Despite our plea to allow us ·to guarantee the 95% occupancy for Fall '89, and back that with signed housing contracts as was dorie last year, we were informed that this allowance would not be afforded. Perhaps there was disbelief of the magnitude of men who were essentially waiting for our Spring bidding to join Delta Chi. Indeed, we have expedited ow bidding which has created the situation of 36 ( 100% occupancy) Union students desiring to live in Raymond House as fraternity brothers in Fall '89. The bidding process continues so this number may · continue to grow. The ABT presented, in registered mail format, the 36 names to the Dean of Residence Life on Monday'· 27 February. In terms of the numbers game, this creates a buffer of two brothers over and above the required 34, or 95%. It is our fervent hope that this new evidence of our strength, along with abundant support on many fronts, will sway the administraion to forgo· the SAC recommendation in light of this new encouraging information. Other salient points included in our appeal are: -The numbers presented by the administration to tile SAC. on which to base their recommendation, were misleading and misrepresentative of their stated policy of not penalizing us for terms abroad -~ This is dramatized by the acute difference of 80% (inCluding our seven TA's this past fall) with the 64% figure reviewed by the SAC (please see Eric's article which closely examines numbers game). -Speaking pragmatically, to revoke our housing privileges under the current circumstances would have the effect of forcing 36 students off campus to provide the opportunity of on-campus living to 36 other students. -Our half of Raymond l;Iouse is perhaps the least desirable site of on-campus housing. we suggest an alternative of creating coed or common interest housing in the abundant, inexpensive housing stock in proximity to Union's periphery. While not physically being within the fence, it 1s actually a shorter walk to classes and the center of campus. Additionally, the local community would react more favorably to this type of group housing than having another fraternity in their midst. Zoning laws negatively impact our seeking off-campus abodes. -Sheet percentage of occupancy criteria as the basis of granting Greek housing privileges is inherently flawed. Greeks in Fox and Davidson have the luxury of moveable firewalls so that they can fit their occupanncy ·availability to their changing· size. · · · -The House scored better than a 3.0 GPA la~t term to place us second amon'g fraternities. Certainly this is indicative of a favorable academic nurturing currently ongoing within our Chapter. -This procedure was NOT, as the administration would have us believe, brought at the prodding of the greater student community. Your signatures on our petitions and your voice in this publication will substantiate this assertion. -An arguable reading of the policy ap.provcd by the SAC states that the required occupancy quotas arc to be reviewed at the end of the prescribed implementation years or lose their privileges for the subsequent year. Why were we judged against 95% when we are currently in the middle of the second implementation year, set at 9()%? -There is sufficient time to weigh all this infonnation - particularly our now current numbers dedicated to living in Raymond House in the fall - before the bidding process begins in May. -We expect a response as to why Delta Chi is being eliminated at a time when they have finally satisfied the occupancy numbers game, prior to the final year of implementation. We're afraid the simplistic answer of req.uiring additional coed housing, due to the changing demographics of the student population, is not acceptable. Delta Chi Alumni Board of Trustees f' •..

CONCORDIEN$1S March 2, 1989 Page 11 Delta Chi Presents the Other Side To the Editors: .\So. I guess it's final. Delta Chi is history. It seems like they basically deserved it.\ If this is the impression of Delta Chi's housing situation which you inferred from the facts which have been publicly released then read on. It should prove-enlightening. There are several rather significant points to this issue with which we must take exception. The most significant of these are the facts related to the occupancy levels of our house over the past' several years. Firstly, the 91.8% occupancy level quoted for other Greeks on campus is due, largely, to the fact that fraternities and sororities in Fox and Davison have moveable fire doors. This allows them to change the size of the house to accommodate any membership level, resulting in 100% occupancy. Furthermore, the fraternities which own their own houses are exempt from the housing requirements. The chart which appeared in last week's article in the Concordiensis was a ·copy of one which was given to our resident at his first meeting with the SAC. The chart verifies the figure of 64% occupancy quoted in the article. The reason for this is that the chart fails to recognize brothers on tenns abroad. In the past we have been explicitly informed by the administration that members on terms abroad would not negatively impact our occupancy standing as it would be unfair to make students choose between the survival of their fraternity and one of the greatest academic opportunities which Union has to offer. If one looks at the revised chart published in this article it is clear that our memership is considerably higher. than 64% and will reach 100% next fall, exceeding the housing requirement by 5%. The other point which the chart brings out is that the phase-in period of the housing requirement policy ends next year, not in the '88-'89 period. Before the policy was initiated we were in compliance with the housing requirements an.d when it is in full effect next fall we will again be in compliance, provided we are given the chance. The 100% occupancy figure represents brothers and associate members (pledges) w:ho will be living in the house next fall, and not independents as last week's article suggested. While we have, in the past, had friends of the fraternity living as independents in the house this will not be necessary (or possible) next fall. In response to Dean Mammola's statement that hou.sing compatible independ~nts at Delta Chi would be \defeating the lottery system,\ I must point out that Delta Chi ranks even below Hickock as the least desirable housing on campus and would certainly be no one's lottery choice if they were not either friends of the house or one of the most unlucky lottery players. Raymond House is not a pretty place to live, but it is ours and we like it. Along these same lines, I must also respond to the Dean's statement that our occupaocy has been \forcing students to live off campus.\ I hardly feel that there are many students who would rather live in one of Raymond's 10'xl5' cublicles, for $745/term, than in an off-campus apartment which costs about $300/month and offers privacy and kitchen facilities. Personally, I would have lived off-campus as an upperclassman had it not been for the housing requirements. Furthermore, making Delta Chi an independent dorm would have only housed 8 additional students tbis year as the 28 Delta Chi members would have entered the lottery system or been 'forced off campus.' Finally, I must emphasize the fact tilat the decision to deny Delta Chi housing is, in no way, the result of an infraction of the school's policies, or a disciplinary action. In lhe 5 years (not due to academic dismissals) that I have been at Union I have never see11 the house in better standing. In a period of tilne which hlls seen numerous infraction:; of school policies, not to mention state and federal laws, on campus, Delta Chi has committed no crimes and has been steadily improving over the years. Our academic standing i~ shown by the fact that we held the second highest house GPA on campus last fall. Furthermore, we will have 0 debt to the school at the end of this term, we have 2 very strong pleodge classes, and we work with Meals-On-Wheels every week on top of our annual Charity Tie-Dye Cabaret. So wh.at's all this fuss about? If the issue truly revolves around occcupancy levels, we have enough members to completely fill the house next fall, and we are prepared to produce 36 signed housing contracts at the end of this tenn to prove it. If there is some other issue at hand here, we are certainly at a loss to identify it. We are strong academically, strong socially, and committed to perpetuating a house wllich we feel has a lot to offer its members, the campus, and the community. To evict us now would be to destroy the exact product which the administration's policies were aimed at creating. Eric S. Turer '89 Delta Chi Occupancy Report of 36 Total *TA (Terms .Abroad) Ooo. (Occupancy) Fall Fall Winter Winter Spring Spring Ave. Ave. Required Year TA Total TA Total TA Total Occ. Occ.% Occ.% 89-90 1 37 36.0 100% 95% 88-89 7 28 3 28 0 27 27.7 77% 90% 87-88 5 32 1 26 0 26 28.0 78% 85% 86-87 1 28 7 29 0 28 28.3 79% 80% Courtesy Delta Chi 1988-89 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring term classes will begin on MONDAY, MARCH 27th. Student schedules will be distrilmted to student mailboxes located in the College Center prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a C()py of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at th\C Fieldhouse on the first day of classes. Formal registra£ion will take place in the Fieldhouse on MONDAY and TUESDAY, MARCH 27th and 28th. Students are reminded tha.t completion of the formal registration procedure consists of the following steps: 1) Picking up their registration packet. 2) Filling it out and making any necessary corrections to the data. 3) Dropping it in the designated boxes. This process is required of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM THEY ARE IN ATTENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE, regardless of whether or not they have fmalized their schedule or have paid for the term. Failure to complete your registration packet may jeopardize fmancial aid awards and academic credit Registration packets turned in after FRIDAY, MARCH 31st, will be considered LATE and a fme of $25 will be assessed- NO EXCEPTIONS! If you antici()llte returning to school late, . please nottify the Registrar's Office immediately! Provided there is a legitimate reason, we can then give you an extension to , hand in your registrtion packet without being penalized. It is your responsibility, however, to no0tify your instructors if you , are late returning to classes. In addition to formal registration, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) m~y be done at the Fieldhouse on Monday, March 27th and on Tuesday, March 28th lJNTll, 3:00P.M., and thereafter, beginlling on Wednesday, March '29th, at the Registrar's Office located in Whitaker House. The last day to declare a course \'PASS-FAll..\ is FRIDAY, MARCH 31st. The last day for making schedule changes (adds, drops, section changes, etc.) without \special permission\ provided the course is still open, is FRIDAY, APRil.. 7th. Any course dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the student's transcript. (It is strongly recommended that you speak with the instructor of any course that you add if you've missed the fLTSt week of classes.) A representative of the Business Office will be available at the Fieldhouse on Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28th, to handle late payment of tenn bills and to help resolve any billing problems. After Tuesday, they will be back in their office located on the fiTSt floor of the Administration Building. PLEASE NOTE: REGISTRATION WILL CEASE AT 3:00P.M. ON TUESDAY, MARCH 28TH. IT Wll..L RESUME ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29TH AT TifE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE LOCATED IN WHITAKER HOUSE. LETTERS Delta Chi Trustee Appeals To the Edit<Yrs: The Alnmni Board of Trustees (ABT) of the Union Chapter of Delta Chi feels it must lodg:e its formal appeal in this O]Den forum of the Union cornmunity, since one was gra11ted before the governing body which is making llle recommendation. Our alumni~ as a group, ru:e in awe of the rapidity and subtlety which have characterized the administr2tion's actions to banish our fraternity - at its strongest IJOint of ~he last 15 years. Th.ere was expressed surprise on the part of the administration to see alumni involvement as of Monday, February 20, the day Dean Wood l'eceived the recommendation from the SAC. ihat, the elusive formal Jlro<:edure which was followed,. and the lack of an appeals IJr-ocess for such a profound action combine to cause an unsettling emotion among us. What is more bewilderinng is the cllange of attitude in how Sllpporti ve the administruion has been in boosting ()Ur membership in the first two years of the impleme11tation of the Student Forum policy, compar-ed with its intransigency in allowing us to prove t!Jat we had fulfilled our qtiota. this third year. Despite Ollf plea to allow us to guauntee the 95% occupa11cy for Fall '89, and back that with signed housing contract~ .as was done last year, we 'li.lere inforined that this allowance would not be afforded. Perhaps there was disbelief of the magnitude of men whu were essentially waiting for our Spring bidding to join Delta Chi. Indeed, we:. have expedited our bidding which has created the situati<J[J of 36 (100% occupan\y) Union students desiring to live in Raymond House as: fTatemity brothers in Fall '89. The bidding process continues so this number may continue to grow. The AET presented, in registered mail format, the 36 names tc the Dean of Residenc.e Life on Monday, 27 February. In terms of the numbers g;ame, this creates a buffer (}f two brothers over and al'l()\,le. the required 34, or 95%. It is our fervent hope that this new evidence of our strengthp along with abundant support <Jil many fronts, will sway t!J.e. administraion to forgo the SAC recornrn~ndation in light of this 11ew encouraging information. Other salient points inducted in our appeal are: -Tbe numbers presented by the ~ldministration to the SAC, (')[\ which to base the1r recom.rnendation, were misleading and misreiJre£entative of their stated p()[ icy of not penalizing us for terms abroad -- This is dramatiz,ed by the acute differe!lce of 80% (including our seven TA's this past fall) with the 64% figure reviewed by the SAC (please see Eric's article which closely examines numbers game). -Speaking pragmatically, to revoke otu housing privileges under the current circl!lmstances would have the effect of forcing 36 students off campus to provide the opportunity of on-campus living to 36 other students. -Our half of Raymond House is perhaps the least desirable site of on-campus housing. we suggest an alternative of creating coed or common interest housing in the abundant, inexpensive housing stock in proximity to Union's periphery. While not physically being within the fence, it is actually a shorter walk to classes and the center of campus. Additionally, the local community would react more favorably to this type of group housing than having another fraternity in their midst. Zoning laws negatively impact our seeking off-campus abodes. -Sheer percentage of occupancy criteria as the basis of granting Greek housing privileges is inherently flawed. Greeks in Fox and Davidson have the luxury of moveable firewalls so that they can fit their occupanncy ·availability to their changing size. -The House scored better than a 3.0 GPA last term to place us second among fraternities. Certainly this is indicative of a favorable academic nurturing currently o11going within our Chapter. -This procedure was NOT, as the administration would have us believe, brought at the prodding of the greater student community. Your signatures on our petitions and your voice in this publication will substantiate this assertion. -An arguable reading of the policy approved by the SAC states that the rcq uired occupancy quotas arc to be reviewed at the end of the prescribed implementation years or lose their privileges for the subsequent year. Why were we judged against 95% when we are currently in the middle of the second implementation year, set at 90%? -There is sufficient time to weigh all this information - particularly our now current numbers dedicated to living in Raymond House in the fall - before the bidding process begins in May. -We expect a response as to why Delta Chi is being eliminated at a time when they have finally satisfied the occupancy numbers game, prior to the final year of implementation. We're afraid the simplistic answer of requiring additional coed housing, due to the changing demographics of the student population, is not acceptable. Delta Chi Alumni Board of Trustees

Page 12 Study? NO! Rent!! Alien Nation By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor Good Purple Rose of Cairo: With Mia Farrow, Jeff Daniels. Clever and entertaining film about an actor who leaves the screen and comes to life to woo a dreamy and unhappy waitress. Murder by Death: With Peter Sellers, David Niven. Entertaining satire of a mystery movie. Ordinary People: With Timothy Hutton, Donald SutherlatUl, Mary Tyler Moore. Thoughtful and extremely well acted film about\a family's struggle to deal with a member's death. Even if you've already seen it, it may be worth renting again. The In-Laws: With Peter Falk, Alan Arkin. Hilarious comedy about the adventures of an unpredictable CIA agent and' a dull New York dentist. Hoosiers: With Gene Hackman, Barbara Hershey, Dennis Hopper. A predictable but extremely pleasant drama about an under-dog basketball team. House: A modest but surprisingly good thriller about a h<>use haunted by Vietnam veterans. (Ding dong, you're dead). Sounds goofy but actually pretty good. To Catch a Thief: With Cary Grant, Grace Kelly. An elegant and romantic Hitchcock mystery. Definitely worth seeing. Missing: With Jack Lemmon. Sissy Spacek. Politics made per:s<>nal in this superbly acted and interesting film. Just terrific. Pretty Lousy Police Academy IV; Assignment Miami Beach: With JaMt Jones, Matt McCoy. Wait until double digits, they might get better. The Survivors: With Robin Williams, Walter Matthau. lias its moments, but they're too scarce to make an otherwise extremely silly movie worthwhile. I Spit On Your Grave: The rental case reads: 'This woman has just cut, chopped, broken and burned five men beyond recogition-but no jury in America would ever convict her! I Spit On Your Grave .. an act of revenge!!\ Not a great movie. (Incidentally th<>ugh, it's the \original complete, 102 minute uncut version\. Maybe it's worth seeing after all.\ Alien Nation: With James Caan. Aliens try Lo take over the earth with a super-narcotic. Yikes. Switching Channels: With Burt Reyrwlds (plus toupee), Kathleen Turner, Christopher Reeve Horrendous. The last half hour is cspc<:ially painful. It's also un liDO this month, but still avoid it at all costs. The Legend of Billie Jea11: With Helen Slater, Peter CoylJte. A girl tracks down some bad guys and becomes a national cult figure in the process. Very cheesy. I Innovative Flutist Ends I mprov. Series By JOHN PEDERSON Last Friday night, Robert Dick-one of today's most innovative flutists-performed in the arts building for the final concert in the Winter Improvisation Series. In many ways, Mr. Dick redefined his audience's ideas about flute music, and at the very least. evaded the boundaries of conventional playing by creating new techniques and adopting old ones. During her introduction, Hilary Tann explained to the audience that if only flute music was expected, then a pleasant surprise was in store. She was right. Dick proved to the audience his conviction that there is more to the flute than people are willing to believe. Dick told a humGrous story about his first flute lessons, begun at age eight~ At the end of each lesson, he would learn a new note until he finally one day ran out of new notes. High C, he was told, was the last note there in existence: moreover, he was not going to learn how to play two or three notes simultaneously. The flute, he was told, could only u® IDOL! TITITI('h play one note at a time. Fortunately, however, Mr. Dick was not willing to accept these \givens.\ He wanted to throw them away, and start fresh with only his imagination limiting his capabilities. The result was years of study an!l exploration-with an imagination that hasn't seemed to limit him-and a final style that is quite unique:..-~- Mr. Dick doesn't simply play the flute; he plays with the flute. He uses mechanical sounds_ that a traditional flutist would attempt to disguise. For instance, by striking the keys fairly hard, Dick can· use the clicking sound produced to add some percussion elements. Contrary to what he had been told, Dick did learn to play notes higher than high C, and in fact he plays these on top of single notes, melodies, and scales. · These are-techniques that he has created, but he has :also adopted the methods used in Hungarian folk music. From . these musicians Dick has learned amethod of holding air in his cheeks which he expels while he is inhaling. This allows him to sustain notes' as long a1J! he pleases. Coupled' with his other techniques,. he can hold' out one note O!J top of an entire piece. Another way in which Pick attained harmony. was by actually vocalizing while playing. In order words, as he is breathing into the mouthpiece, he is simultaneously singing. Obviously this technique not only provides a harmony for his melody, but it also adds a human quality to· certain works. So what do all these techniques sound like together in his works? His pieces. as he told the ·audience, try to imitate the way light sounds, or the way in which air travels. His pieces are ·not necessarily melodic, and they are de:fmitely not classical. Instead, they are thoughiful, self-expressive, inventive and new. · Until recently, Robert Dick was one of the only artists employing such methods, but now he has begun teaching his techniques to others and broadening the boundries of flute music. PHOTO CLUB 7:30 Rm. _409. Coll~ge C_enter COLOR SLID'E DEVELO.PMENT TONIGHT • - • ! [.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS March 2, 1989 X 0 u. ~ :::::l 1- z UJ 0 ~ u. 0 >- C/l UJ 1- a: :::::l 0 0 0 b I 0.. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Study? NO! Rent!! Innovative Flutist Ends I mprov. Series i. Alien Nation By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor Good Purple Rose of Cairo: With Mia Farrow, Jeff Daniels. Clever and entertaining film about an actor who leaves the screen and comes to life to woo a dreamy and unhappy waitress. Murder by Death: With Peter Sellers, David Niven. Entertaining satire of a mystery movie. 0 rdinary People: With Tirrwthy Hutton, Donald Sutherland, Mary Tyler Moore. Thoughtful and extremely well acted film about a family's struggle to deal with a member's death. Even if you've already seen it, it may be worlh renting again. The In-Laws: With Peter Falk, Alan Arkin. Hilarious comedy about the adventures of an unpredictable CIA agent and' a dull New York dentist. Hoosiers: With Gene Hackman, Barbara Hershey, Dennis Hopper. A predictable but extremely pleasant drama about an under-dog basketball team. House: A modest but surprisingly good thriller about a house haunted by Vietnam veterans. (Ding dong, you're dead). Som1ds goofy but actually pretty good. To Catch a Thief: With Cary Grant, Grace Kelly. An elegant and romantic Hitchcock mystery. Definitely worth seeing. Missing: With Jack Lemmon, Sissy Spacek. Politics made personal in this superbly acted and interesting film. Just terrific. Pretty Lousy Police Academy IV; Assigmment Miami Beach: With Janet Jones, Matt McCoy. Wait until double digits, they might get better. The Survivors: With Robin Williams, Walter Matthau. Has its moments, but they're too scarce to make an otherwise extremely silly movie worthwhile. I Spit On Your Grave: The rental case reads: 'This woman has just cut, chopped, broken and burned five men beyond recogition-but no jury in America would ever convict her! I Spit On Your Grave ... an act of revenge!!\ Not a great movie. (Incidentally though, it's the \original complete, I 02 minute uncut version\. Maybe it's worth seeing after all.\ Alien :\'iation: With James Caan. Aliens try to take over the earth with a super-narcotic. Yik.es. Switching Channels: With Burt Reynolds (plus toupee), Kathleen Turner, Christopher Reeve. Horrendous. The last half hour is !!specially painful. It's also on HBO this month, but still avoid it at all costs. The Legend of Billie Jean: With Helen Slater, Peter Coyote. A girl tracks down some bad guys and becomes a national cult figure in tlle process. Very cheesy. By JOHN PEDERSON Last Friday night, Robert Dick-one of today's most innovative flutists-pcrform.cd in the arts building for the final concert in the Winter Improvisation Series. In many ways, Mr. Dick redefined his audience's ideas about flute music, and at the very least, · evaded the boundaries of conventional playing by creating new techniques and adopting old ones. During her introduction, Hilary Tann explained to the audience that if only flute music was expected, then a pleasant strrprise was in store. She was right. Dick proved to the audience his conviction that there is more to the flute than people are willing to believe. Dick told a humorous story about his first flute lessons, begun at age eight. At the end of each lesson, he would learn a new note until he finally one day ran out of new notes. High C, he was told, was the last note there in existence: moreover, he was not going to learn how to play two or three notes simultaneously. The flute, he was told, could only u® IDOL! TITITI® M . ·· ... . ·o· ·u·· .. ·N···· :J··· .,.E.\'B· 2 1i:i :.:.N .. ··11· .... ::.s .. ·:·:::: .. ::. ·. . . . -.· -: ::;: ·._:.; ' :> .-.... :-· . . .. . .. . - . . . .. ·R.·-'····R······· . . :. ::. - ~·:;:~t=> . : ·:_ ··P.·.·.· . . . . -:-:- play one note at a time. Fortunately, llowever, Mr. Dick was not willing to accept these \givens.\ He wanted to throw them away, and start fresh with only his imagination limiting his capabilities. The result was years of study and exploration-with an imagination that hasn't seemed to limit him-and a final style that is quite unique. Mr. Dick d()esn't simply play Lhe flute; he plays with the flute. He uses mechanical soLinds. that a traditional flutist would attempt to disgtlise. For instance, by strildng the keys fairly hard, Dick can use the clicking sound prodaced to add some percussion elements. Contrary to what he had been told, Dick did learn to play notes higher than high C, and in fact he plays these on top of single notes, melodies, and scales. These are techniques that he has created, but he has also adopted the methods used in Hungarian folk mLisic. From . these musicians Dick has learned a. methocl of holding air in his cheeks which. he expels while he is iBhaling. This D ..... 4~m·· .. · ... ~ l,1*J.Ja. . ·4 ~(;4 ·· · - s .--.Lot(~·V.l~W ·o:r:eaxif'; ... , ·i'·· ./··. ,, •... : · BiU&Ted's ... ': :\ .. _.;, allows him to sustain notes as long as he pleases. Coupled· with his other techniqt~es, he can hold out one note on top of an entire piece. Another way in which Dick attained harmony was by actually vocalizing while p1aying. In order words, as he is breathing into the mouthpiece, he is simultaneously singing. Obviously this technique not only provides a harmony for his melody, but it also adds a human quality to· certain works. So what do all these techniques sound like together in his works? His pieces, as he told the ·audience, try to imitate the way light sounds, or the way in which air travels. His pieces are not necessarily melodic, and they are defmitely not classical. Instead, they are thoughtful, self-expressive, inventive and new. Until recently, Robert Dick was one of the only artists employing such methods, but now he has begun teaching his techniques to others and broadening the boundries of flute music. L :Adfi ..... n·. ·. ~~n ~ ... u .tYJ:.v PHOTO CLUB 7:30 Rm. 409 Colle,ge Center COLOR SLIDE DEVELOPMENT TONIGHT

I l' CONCORDlBNSIS March 2~ 1989 Page 13 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The ··visit HOROSCOPES BY \A'' PISCES: Settle down! Although your college years are ones for experimentation of all kinds, make sure you are using gQO<I judgement. This w~k coocentrate on academics and begin thinking-commitment. By KATIE ·BOYD ,Arts Editor injustice results in demands that a man be killed for his guilt. Yet the death sentence is The Arts Department's latest. backed by financial reward and \The Visit,\ is a b::utal, thus the motivation behind the horrible, and fantastic: play. proposed -murder must be The production 1 is_ remarkable questioned. in siz~. student and fa.culty The -play takes place in a commitment, and stre~tgth of horribly dep.re.ssed yet the story. The audience can't seemingly content town. The help but leave impressed and town makes welcome its most disquj.eted - famous citizen, who has While .first performe<i· over returned for a \visit.\ She's the thirty years ago, the disturbing richest woman in the world. story line presented iil \The She'll breathe life back into the Visit\ has special relevallce to t9wn, as long as the toYJn today's, ·Society ... - Elell.)eatS:· . -· a:v,enges ber inJustice .. which are part of prese11t life . T~e· motivation is what? take center stage in Justice? Hardly. Mme. Duerrenmatt'.s ]llay. Zachanassian' injustice (a . Materialism, while today man 1 s betrayal} is simply used viewed as a beneficiary to justify another injustice (the motivation yet also berated as a murder of lhat man, Anton root for so much evil, is in fact Schill). If the town had truly the motivation f!Or a wished to right a wrong they townsman's murder. Lik:e· the would have punished Schill and recent death warrant against . rejected Mme. Zachanassian's Salman Rushdie, a pUlpotted _reward. A man's guilt is simply used·to cloak the greed generated by promises of prosperity. The word justice is espeCially innocuous when used to describe a crime with pure materialisitic motivation. . It is a tribute to the acting ability of Michelle Maratto, under tlle direction of Barry Smith, that Mme. Zachanassian is not presented as evil but :rather tonnented by her desire for revenge. Anton Schill's {Craig Summers) transgression froin most respected citiz~n to hunted black panther is balanced by his 'spiritual' growth. Summ~rs valiantly conquers the tremendous range required for t:his, the play's most humanly complex role. Other commendable performances included Jessica Adleson (as the nun}, Marina Bernard (as the Mayor), and Johanna Campbell (as the school teacher). Minor but notable performances were ARIES: As finals slowly creep up on you, it's time to begin organizing your life. This week straighten out your priorities, however, be sure not to deny yourself release from your anxiety.' Ti\.URUS: This week you will make progress with someone at Union College who you fmd stimulating to bothyour body and mint!. If also involved elsewhere do not.thi,nk you can have your cake and eat it too. GEMINI: This week your social life will not be a fulfilling one. The best advice one could give you would. be to concentrate your effons elsewhere than fraternity parties ·OT m the bedroom. This has potential tO be a very productive week. CANCER: This month has been a perplexing one and staggering in the relationship d!;parimetJ.t. You want 'lo have it all. This week you must begin takmg responsibility for your actions and make some serious decisions. LEO: Although recent trends have suggested a celibate term, this week a brand new prospect may surface. However, now is not the time for _commitments. Expect good news in the mail. VIRGO: Hormones are ·high, commitment is low. You should have gone to CROSSTALK .last week-'-lhe topic was scamming versus relationships at Union College. You neglecuhe former and your reputation is at ril!k. LJ.B:RA: You've been complaining about an unfulfilling love life; however, you are unwilling to take the necessary risks. Allhough this week may find you buried under a load of school work, find time to spend with that special someqne. SCORPIO: This .is not a week to forget emotional rejections by going on a spending spree. News received the end of this week should guarantee some long, overdue recognition. SAGITTARIUS: You may be fmding it difficult to find that special someone. Perhaps you are only looking on the surface for a challenge and an ego boost. This week you may see someone in a new light with whom you could have a healthy relationship. CAPRICORN: It doesn't take much to undermine your confidence and make ' you retreat into yourself. However, in the weeks to come, hold ftrmly to your beliefs and watch the respect and admiration you will receive. This week you can do anything you put your mind to. AQUARIUS: This week is going to be .a tough one for Aquarians--detours lie ahead that distrupt your seemingly simple existence. Keep your head high, ignore what others say and soon you'll find yourself in full swing again. given by the wwn drunk {Josh Waldman), the two eunuch rappers (Billy Rooney, Nat Keller), and the clucking \charge it\ women (Elanna Pollack, Christina Weymann). The grotesqueness of Duerrernatt's original \The Visit\ was lost in the primary translations of his work into English. Smith, however, has retrieved some of these· elements which give the play added impacL One example of a 'grotesque' characterization was the judge putting on \big nose, bushy eyebrow glasses\ so that the town could recognize him. The fine performances and frighteningly relevant topics . make \The Visit\ a play not to be missed. ...-A\-~'f'<= t-~ A & E ~ - BRIEFS Capital Rep., Albany 462-4534 · Tonight-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winning play by David Mamet. $9 for students Albany Public Library, Albany 161 Washington St. Tonight, 7:30. The 1989 Esoteric Film Series: \Lola\. Free Admission. Proctor·s Schenectady 346·6204 Fri., Sat. 8:00. \Ma Rainey's Black Bottom\. Wed. 8:00. \Israel Philharmonic\. Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs 583-0022 Tonight. 8:00. \Open Mike Night\. Fri., Sat. 8:30 .. \Jerry Rasmussen\: Connecticut-based folksinger and song-writer. College Center, Union College Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, t1.\Big\. Wed. 7,9,11. \Hannah and Her Sisters\. SENIORS IN ALL MAJORS The Allen Prize in non-fiction is for you Deadline March 29 Ask for information in the English Department . \

CONCORDIENSIS March 2, 1989 Page 13 : ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Visit HOROSCOPES BY \A\ PISCES: Settle down I Although your college years are ones for experimentation of all kinds, make sure you are using good judgement. This week concentrate on academics and begin thinking~nunitment. By KATIE :&OYD Arts Editor The Arts Department's latest, \The Visit,\ is a brutal, horrible, and fantastic play. The production is remarkable in size, student and faculty commitment, and strength of the story. The audience can't help but leave impressed and disquieted While first performed over thirty years ago, dle disturbing story line presented in \The Visit\ has special relevance to today's society. Elements which .:rre part of present life take center stage in D u errenmatt 's play. Materialism, while today viewed as a beneficiary motivation yet also berated as a root for so much evil, is in fact the motivation for a townsman's murder. Like the Fecent death warrant against Salman Rushdie, a. purported injustice results in demands that a man be killed for his guilt. Yet the death sentence is backed by financial reward and thus the motivation behind the proposed murder must be questioned. The play takes place in a horribly depressed yet seemingly content town. The town makes welcome its most famous citizen, who has returned for a \visit.\ She's the richest woman in the world. She'll breathe life back into the town, as long as the town avenges her injustice. The motivation is what? Justice? Hardly. Mme. Zachanassian' injustice (a man's betrayal) is simply used to justify another injustice (the murder of that man, Anton Schill). If the town had truly wished to right a wrong they would have punished Schill and rejected Mme. Zachanassian's reward. A man's guilt is simply used to cloak the greed generated by promises of prosperity. The word justice is especially innocuous when used to describe a crime with pure materialisitic motivation. It is a tribute to the acting ability of Michelle Maratto, under the direction of Barry Smith, that Mme. Zachanassian is not presented as evil but rather tormented by her desire for revenge. Anton Schill's (Craig Summers) transgression froin most respected citizen to hunted black panther is balanced by his 'spiritual' growth. Summers valiantly conquers the tremendous range required for this, the play's most humanly complex role. Other commendable performances included Jessica Adleson (as the nun), Marina Bernard (as the Mayor), and Johanna Campbell (as the school teacher). Minor but notable perfonnances were . , '.N' SAVE *' \':-- .... ..,. \\\- ...... - - - - - --- - ... - - - - ~~·~~·~,..~~,. ~. j ARlFS: As finals slowly creep up on you, it's time to begin organizing your life. This week sttaigbten out your priorities, however, be sure not to deny yourself release from your anxiety. TAURUS: This week you will make progress with someone at Union College who you find sti.mulating to both your body al'!d mind. If also involved elsewhere do not think you can have your cake and eat it too. GEMINI: This week your social life will not be a fulfilling one. The best advice one could give y()u would be to concentrate your efforts elsewhere than fraternity parties or in tile bedroom. This has potential to be a very productive week. CANCER: This month has been a pe1plexing one and staggering in the relationship department. You want to have it all. This week you must begin taking responsibility for your actions and make some serious decisions. LEO: Although recent trends have suggested a celibate term, ~his week a brand new prospect may surface. However, now is not the time for commitments. Expect good news in tlJe mail. VIRGO: Hormones are high, commitment is low. You should have gone to CROSSTALK last week--the topic was scamming versus relationships at Union College. You neglect the f01mer and your reputation is at risk. LIBRA: You've been complaining about an unfulfilling love life; however, you are unwilling to take the necessary risks. Although this week may find you buried under a load of school work, find time to spend with that special someone. SCORPIO: This is nC>t a week to forget emotional rejections by going on a spending spree. News received the end of this week should guarantee some long, overdue recognition. SAGITTARIUS: You may be finding it difficult to find that special someone. Perhaps you .are only looking on the surface for a challenge and an ego boost. This week :you may see someone in a new light with whom you could have a healthy rel.ationship. CAPRICORN: It doesn't take much to undermine your confidence and make you retreat into yourself. However, in the weeks to come, hold firmly to your beliefs and watch the respect and admiration you will receive. This week you can do anything you put your mind to. AQUARIUS: This week is going to be a tough one for Aquarians-detours lie ahead that distrupt your seemingly simple existence. Keep your head high, ignore what others say .and soon youU find yourself in full swing again. given by the town drunk (Josh W aidman), the two eunuch rappers (Billy Rooney, Nat Keller), and the clucking \charge it\ women (Elanna Pollack, Christina Weymann). The grotesqueness of Duerrematt's origin·al \The Visit\ was lost in the primary translations of his work into English. Smith, however, has retrieved some of these elements which give the play added impact. One example of a 'grotesque' characterization was the judge putting on \big nose, bushy eyebrow glasses\ so that the town could recognize him. The fine performances and frighteningly relevant topics make \The Visit\ a play not to be missed . Capital Rep., Albany 462·4534 Tonight-March 19, 8:00. \Glengarry Glen Ross\: Pulitzer Prize winning play by David Mamet. $9 for students Albany Public library, Albany 161 WashingtoA St. Tonight, 7:30. The 1989 Esoteric Film Series: \Lola\. Free Admission. Proctor's Schenectady 346·6204 Fri., Sat. 8:00. \Ma Rainey's Black Bottom\. Wed. 8:00. \Israel Philharmonic\. Caffe Lena, Saratoga Springs 583·0022 Tonight. 8:00. \Open Mike Night\. Fri., Sat. 8:30. \Jerry Rasmussen\: Connecticut-based folksinger and song-writer. College Center, Union College Fri., Sat., Sun. 7,9, 11.\Big\. • • • ,._.: : ·; > ·- ... ·-. • '- • ., :' •• •'• •• ·--· • ·-· -· - • ~ • .• • : •• ·- Wed. 7,9,11. \Hannah and Her Sisters\. ... ;::•~t~;~i:Ni::»~:~;:::~f.:iii~'1.~::~<~3-~oiilil!.:~\!-:~.;'~~-:.~~- ... ~->\-:;:;·;ii .. --.~,~~~\.:~ ... ·.·~;;;.:..;....:.;oo;--'.»''''ililih\~'--~----.J/Mt-·-~- -~ •. - .. ~--- ...... ------ ... -...-.. ..,, ..... - .,. ... - - Jl SENIORS IN ALL MAJORS The Allen Prize in non-fiction is for you Deadline March 29 Ask for information in the English Department

•• Page 14 CONCOR_DlENSIS March 2, 1:9~9 _______ A_R .... T_·s .... · .. ~&_E_N_: ..... TE ..... ···· R .... ·•·· T_ .• A_I .... N_ .. M_· · ._E_N_T_. ------------·· ..... ' An Introduction To METALLIMUSIC By JOHN F. MULLER This is part one of a three- part story on Elektra Recording Artists METALLICA. When is the last time an unseen force peeled back your skull. reached in and restructured yo9r mind - raising your consciousness yet CAN YOU SING? I . ill:. , ~--- ... _ . . . . . - - ~ ~ . . , .. ._ ,_ .·-.,.. ~ ~ - ~ - ~ .. ~ . -: N~ed an excuse to stay at school and watch . : your friends graduate? ll . All people or groups interested in ~inging at commencement should contact Mrs. Marra at 370-6118, or stop by room 408 of the College Center. FREE·STUDY BREAK PARTY Date: Wednesday, March 8 Comedian Band (Dirty Face) 8:00pm Auditorium 9:00pm Atrium · FREE FOOD: SKINS WINGS PIZZA SODA Be There - Enjoy the · j evening with your peers. Sponsored by: Our very own Concert Committee and Speakers Forum cauterizing the wounds society has imposed? Can music be so ferocious yet cunning?' · Welcome to Metallimusic. Metallica is not \gimmick- PRIZES FOR POETS Dealine March 29. · Find out more in the . English De.partemt bop;\ that sugary-sweet, pass- me.:.;the-Rolaids plague inherent ill commercialized sound w.aves. Metallica is four men with words and music .• as they say. Half-man and half-beast, Metal1ica is a panther with E-instein's brain. I do notjest. The most bdllia.Ilt innovative thinker of our time meets the most fluid yet vicious killing ~ machine ever .. a genius with tbeability to get the job done. · Metallica's music ,plants its seed deep within, becoming immense and all-consuming until there is no hope. You are ~ependent - a. MetaHijunkie, dragged into the abyss - an .adrenaHne-pumping freefall. Immense, abrasive guitar riffs emerge from the darkness from all angles as the beat chums breathlessly on. Tempo .changes unwittingly, sending the song careening toward yet ano.ther hairpin turn and further adventures. James Hetfield's voice attacks, - sometimes piawling and ·patiently stalking, other times sinking its teeth in and tearinng free your very souL A more apt thrash melal singer I defy you to tind. As Hetfield ,;speaks. the word,\ his guitar spits fire - its flame seers through you - the ultimate axe of destruction. ·Meanwhile Kirk-Hammett, on lead guitar, fearlessly treads the hot coals laiQ. by the relentless rhythm corps: Hammett's solos emit an unearthly melodic glow -.speed and dexterity that belie l)is guitar's unnerving force. Jason Newsted and'Lars Ulrich · lay the founditiion, ·Newsted's bass leaps and catapults itself .into a futious whirlwind of sound • locked in . a deathkhell struggle with twin-gu.i,tar asssault. aehind the • ' drumkit, Lars Ulrich is a human perpetual motion machine~ his -bass drum th1mders · - muscling your senses -·as the cymbals, snare and toms. slug it out at unconceival:be speeds and impossible times. Lars Ulrich is heavy. He is the heart and souLof Metallimusic. Metallica has four full-length albums and one EP out. Their lyrics· are minor epics, often socially conscious, written from the soul by way of the brain~ These boys aren't afraid to say what they feel, but they take the time to say it well.· Will you receive the beast and be reborn? NEXT WEEK: The albums and their messages. FRESHMAN IN ALL DEP ARTl\IIENTS The Van Orden Writing Prize is for you. Find out more in the English Department Deadline March 19, 1989

CONCORDIENSIS March. 2, 1989 Page IS DRESS FOR SUCCESS. TOYOTA PARTS AND SERVICE. CHECK OUR SPECIALS! QUALITY SERVICE OIL CHANGE WITH Fit •Includes up to ; quarts of oil and genuine Toyota double-filtering oil filter. • Complete under-the- hood check of all belts, hoseS and fluid levels .. Expires 3-31-89 $19.95 TOYOTA QUALITY SERVICE FRONT END ALIGNMENT • Set caster. toe and camber on applicable vehicles. • Inspect steering, shocks and tire wear. $ 2 9 9 s· •_Center steering wheel. · · • · · .-------•1Explres 3-31 .,..~----------1 I I A,s a Navy officer,. pdde and profes- women committed to beiog the best. To qualify, you must beaU. S. sionalism come with the territory. You'll get a solid starting salary Citizen no more than28 years old, You also develop the potential that and additional allowanc-es: that add have a BA orBS degree, and pass an yo\1 know you have and gpin leader- even more to your income~ Plus, aptitude test and physical exam. Get ship experience that.builds success. you'll get benefits like free medical a leadership and managementoppor- In operations and management, and dental care, thirty d~SJS' paid tunity that makes a big difference in in sd~tific and technical fields, you vacatioJl each year, and OJlportuni, any career. Call Navy Man~gement work with highly talented men and ties forpostgraduateedlication. Programs ~t 1-:BQ0-444-7134, An Offic:er Recruiter. will be on ~mpus. fQr interviews at the Career De'Velopment Center today 0830-1645 •. ·- I I 'I I I TOYOTA QUALITY WHO COULD ASK FOR ANYTHING MORE! ---- ... -·-IIIIID ------ 1 0°/o Student Discount with Coupon · I I I I I L :-- - - ~·- - -- ... - - - .. .· _NAVY OFFICER . You are Tomorrow. You are the Navy. THERE'SNOTHING LIKE THE REAL THING FROM ... are: 1. Buy a Macintosh. fLj · 2. Add a peripheral . • ;\pp}.,;;,-~~;f . -----~:~~~!~:.:it . . ~.:-;.?~'ft.'# :-!,~' ~-';:- ·'~. i \'\'~!;;.r ... ~- ...... . ·, ·~ ., · 3. Get a nice, fat check. Now through March 31, when you buy selected Macintosh®SE or Macintosh II computers, you'll get a rebate for up to half the suggested retail price of the Apple® peripherals you add on- so you'll save up to $800. · Ask for details today where computers are sold on campus. Apple Pays Half College Bookstore or Office of .Computer Services ©! 1989 Apple ConlfJUiel; !tiC. Jfpple, t/111 Apple k>go, and MIICiniOoh are registered trademarks o}Appk Comp/J/er, !nc GIJ1'/CIJII rnmr:trons apply Att.rebates stibject to strict, Cl)fllp/i4nce With the 'fe:liw at!d i:tmditwitS riflbe 'iJjpk Pt!ys Half' Program Gukielilles,at'lliklble jivm your autlx»ized A,f>JJle wse/ll!f. Offer void where prohibiied by lato .,\

'. Page 16 CONCORJ)IENSIS March 2, 1989 ·CAMPUS NEWS:. ==========· . Registtar, Whitaker House for· CLUB NEWS · more information. DJ, Thanks for the gt:eatest year!'! isn't lit. Campus Protestant Ministry News -Mornin.g Prayer every weekday fr<>m 8:15-8:35 in the fourth floor lounge of the College Center. -Bible study will be held Thursday at 4:30 in the Religious Programs office on the fourth floor of the College Center. -Sunday worship is from 6- 6:45 Sunday evening, also in the fourth floor lounge. -A Plateful of Questions discussion group meets . on Tuesdays from 11:45-12:30 in the same leunge. Newman Club Activities M\er\ioi-'fapes-::-\\\:FrT<i~\Y~ March 3 at noon, all are welcome to bring a brown bag lunch and listen to a Merton Tape in CC404B. . M\onrfay-~-Nrg-w-~s~u-p-p-ers': March 6th at 5 p.m. in CC203 either use your meal plan or bring your· own and join Professor Hugh Foley, Professor of Psychology for conversation and an informal talk \Reflections On My Lif~: Turning 40 During Lent.\ All welcome. Confirmation· - This spring, Bishop Hubbard will administer the Sacrament of Confirmation in St. John the Evangelist Church. Union students are invited to participate. Any Union student who· has not been confirmed may contact Sr. Joan 404B College Center who will arrange meetings to assist st1:1dents in their preparation. Tutoring - Union College students can be used in the following areas at St. John's School: Kindergarten and Math Aides and Reading on a one-to- one. Please contact Sheila Hennigan 386-4353. Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the Music Ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sund·ay Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. CLASSIFIEDS SUMMER JOBS $8.40/hr or commission. Advertising sales. No experience necessary. We will train. Work locally. Car recommended. Call Steve Gorman at (800) 344-6766 for details & application. METRO MARKETING GROUP. HELP WANTED: Two students needed for the week of March 20-24 to work in the Registrar's Office. Duties include: clipping together registration packets, sorting materials for delivery to academic departments and sorting student sch(}dules. Hours are 8:30-12:00 and l :00- 4:30 p.m. Please contact BASS 'PLAYER needed for Niskayuna spring play .. Sbow Love; T, T, & A, Gme MR- . Does th~tuck-in include a wake up in the mo~ing? · date: April 11. Please contact . Mike Pletman 377-3123 (work) or 393-8191 (home). . Lind8ay ~ =~======== I Oujimustjust be. tired! . PER·SONALS . ' . - - - . - . . - ·. AnJl McDermott • . Are you really getting in the shower now? AAA.· . Rika- ·· Congta.ts, ms .. state champ! . But whete's ·my 54? . To ·the Fwoinan-w0rd: ThankS! -SS LpveLina Jon, . . · · lbe long~awaited: dinner finally · came true---unless it didn't. . LL -a fellow $;-Word · · RetCh: _ . JB- ·. You ate just so deep-in. every • sense ·Of the word. J&:L ·- =z=rM--::---- ---___,_.....,..,_~__,...,.~ Everyone must be calling Gordon's mo.ther! · - ., -Your Roomie • Hallie~ INTRIGUED- , I'm out to here. E.D. (alias B.B.) Which one of the seven dwarves is next? · Rumor ha& it that you can still get cancer even if the cigarette · ' HNA. . l got areally weird feelin~ inside me the other day .. .I think it was the ouji board. Elisa; · Little Jill, ·· Still INTRIGUED~ I miss you so much - With agapi, pttle Lina . . sophistication without pretension .•• Fine lodging and exquisite dining trt the midst of the Adirondacks. Gore Mt. Midweek Ski Getaway Only $68./person including: lodg~g. 5-cou:rse dinner. full breakfast (Sun.-Thurs.) and ... lift ticket! BLOOM ·COUNTY I .5f/W YQU.F<. C&17l!J{. \ tN me f!CIIYIJ~ PanheUenic CablVe~ · ·· •\-· .Place: · · ·· ···• . · . OldChapel ,}' Date: Thursday, March 2nd 9:00pm . .~ $2,00 Adm.i$ion ·All proceeds go to the Schenect~dy Rape Crisis Center by Berke Breathed P---------~~----~· . A ~lUtoN PtJU.JIK5 fiJK 71ft N06& Of1H6/Nfll%l 1 Penny Adey, · Assistant. 1 . t·----------------;.-.--------------~~------------~ ,, :l 'I : ~

..._ CONCOS.DlENSIS Marek ;t, 1989 Page 17 Wendy- PERSONALS ' . ' How 'bout those Mercedes. What's your mother going to cook for us again? To The Lady Tracksters: Good Luck in ECAC's.! You're the Best;. Now let's prove it! · .:The California Meatball. ·Allison- Do you think they play ,hockey inhere? · Jen- Don't ever worry about it! Where were you .the other night? Missed you. Cindy- ,..ss Since when .do you do tt:ack? Whose wings are those? Find a Gamma .Phi Beta - · • sturdier, wilting floating : flowers. Kate- Would like to 1hank those who donated clotlle.s to our clothing drive. It was 'Very successful and we appreciate everyone's support. Thai!k you. Lisa- Tripper, muscles, Thanks for writing on the waH, forgot she was a sensitive person. Warm up J)artner, tolerance level · needs work. Warm up '}>artner; CT, Slammer. I will survive, good . . . · ~ng we all were sober those · ! Go to Bath!!! nights let's work on tolerance · · Go to B.ath! ! ! ' . . ' ·a· 'thHII gondola. o to Ba ...... The NEW Creamy Frozen Fruit Treat VlTARI Offers ... Fresh fruit goodness with no added sugar. The creaminess of • tee cream with no cholesterol or lactose. It's so unique; it's patented! Winner of Vitarj Shirt- Scott Weisberg -~ . . ... ', ·: . ,: .. -., '-/''- · Dru11k Boweling, Funnels,. shot guns, z bottels of beer on the wall...Funnel it down, \.Put me into.the ballgame\ Stepb, Lefs go campin,g in the spring . G.G. It's All Over! The season is finally over and we have survivecl. , Jeann- Seatbelts .for barstools should be mat1datory. Why are you so tired tonight? What happened last nignt? Rosella - my- bella - :rust \Rox\ Thanks, \Cracklin' Rose\ Keep the hair tucked in! Gina-Porkv \Walkin' Down Canal Street! Grilled cheese, anyone? Reg told me not todance, Honest I'm not. Duck- The Funnel Queen, 1, 2, 3, ... F! Moscow Canada~ Pitched anyone lately? · California Dreamin' You've corrupted us! Julie- Yoll're the only legalone! Butter the bread first! You won a q11alityaward? Why? Because she knows you. Co11gratulations Scary. Harsh test '89 is officially underway. Unfortunately the rest of ris are far, far behind. Ami you have pictures too .. Holy Dick. Does Roger eat well? Where is· ow hope? Has Marty been jammin'? I can't think of any others; Oh by the way, Banger Mountain and Nature it's time to catch up ... Scary's done Ha:rshday! Mail tbis cc~ctn, ot .c;¥ll-SOO.'lNDS:NU; in Illinois, 012) $1-4114. ···:;;:;-:'' CAMPUS NEWS Todd Swartz - (Got it right this time!} Now J.. ... A News Flash; Dog hit by car!! Film at 11 PM!! you can put this one on your ~1 : wall! 1/ -,-B-ov-e----~--~· ~- Kathy i . Happy Birthday two weelcs ~--~~----- 1 early! I wish we could celebrate · our B-Days together. Ed, Tilly Eileen . , SDT - 1 Don't forget to invite Curt ; Nassau for cocktails on Congrats on the Poly-Sci Midtenn. Way to go ! ! ! Risa- I Friday!! Congrats! You should be very proud, I am going to miss you lots. Hope Kwasha Lipton has I I I a WATS line! Love Stef I Meanne, Even though JM doesn't realize your A potential, and you inconvenience your housemates, we love you and we will keep you. ppp Robin- \Carrot Queen\ How big is it? How 'bout thos(' Bengels? My brother has been violated. Cath, To go to Italy or not? To go to Florida or not? To live in the apt. or not? Am I dirtball or not? Delta's- What a great formal Friday night! Thanks Robin! -JACK- Denny, Keep up the good work. We all appreciate it. -The Brothers The most exciting night last week was ti1e movie - and it was nothing to get excited about. - Kim T. LoveLina I I ·I l I I I l I I ·I I l I j. I I l I I After all my hard work this tepn, you had your chance and you blew it. Oh well, there is still R.P.I. If you don't get sick before you go out. J ... A Hey DJ ...... You#?/!@ Chris, Bob and Seth, Here's to spring t~rm and \Fun in the Sun\ If all of you made it in. Sweeney Leash- Spring Break will be amazing! Keep smiling & remember don't drop gum between 2 buildings. -LoveS squared Brand- Bernie called, wants to see you desperately. I can't make it this weekend, I'm going to Maine to pick up a load of potatoes. -Lina Becky, Don't mess with Sports. YouKnowWho Countdown: T-18 days until St. Maartin. Get ready NYHUS!! Becky, My answering machine doesn't sound like that! Love you anyway. -Stephanie G.G. Want to come over for breakfast - I'm serving chocolate covered sugar bombs. RSVP: Calvin and Friends NYHUS: Perhaps you could spend a few consecutive days on campus next week? I won't hold my breath. -Stephanie Nort~westem University Summer Session '89 Think or swim. 2003 Sheridan Road Evanston, Illinois 60208- 26SO Save me a seat. send rne a free c;opy of tbe Sulflnier Sessi()ll '89 catalog With financial md and registration infol'tllation (a\IUilable .IJlid~Match)' Please Send the catalog to D my home. 0 my school. Name __ __.__,:_ ___ ....._~ ----.- .. School Address -· Clty Stllte Zip ·----·· --·-·--· Home Address ------\--~- ----- City Sllll~t Zip l

Page 18 CONCORDIENSrS March 2, 1989 Cross Country Ski Team Finishes Sea:son In 'lalce Placid. By SUSAN· KERSCH and WILLIE STEVENSON Throughout the season the Union College Nordic has made noteworthy . advances. Several experienced members perfected their time-honored technique, some beginners successfully conquered their first collegiate races, and even some first timers were taught the skating technique used in races by the masters of the Nordic teain.. For all the season offered much excitement, several surprises, and a few big upsets. Two weeks ago a once again healthy team creatively descended on Lake Placid for the regional meet. There, they would confront awesome challenges of the Olympic course and infamous Russian Hill. While at Lake Placid the team was able to witness the wonders of winter that have evaded Schenectady this entire season. As the race time approached the temperature edged to a biting twenty-five below zero discounting windchill. Despite these harsh conditions Union skiers slashed the course· with vigor. Overnight, racers Will Shields' and Willie Stevenson's times for the ten kilometer race plummeted from 46.51 and 64.12 to 40.43 and 60.50 respectively. The women turned in. competitive times in their eight kilometer race. and in their· Sk relay, racers Susan Kersch and Erika Pankow melted the course with split times of 31.05 and 27.51. For the women this .was not only a large improvement over their individual times, hut also a vast improvement of about five minutes from the time of the previous race. At the Lake Placid meet, CLarkson, a shoo- in for the Nlltionals, was defeated by ' D11i-versity of Rochester in a mail-biting :race.· the U of R rela}\ team secured first place by oliiy .11 seconds, less than 75 feeL The ya:oag team's enthusiasm coBld not be dampened by the lack of snowfall tllis season, and continued tohll!vejun weekends both on arid off me slopes. Presently the tt:e:am has begun its diverse a11d extensive training for mex.t year's season and with helJ.l from Mother Nature, the coming year will find them not~;Jnly competitive but in the Nati0>11als. There will be a targe interest meeting th~ f:i:rst week in Spring term for anyone interested .in joilling. this up- and-coming sp()rtS group. If you have art) -q11estions, please call Susan or Will' at 370-6876 or 374-8812. Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER No class! That is the only way to put it. Jerry Jones and George Steinbrenner, you have no class. They both replaced mainstays in their organizations, and unnceremoniously so. Jones the new owner of the Nationa. Footall League's once great Dallas Cowboys, and Steinbrenner, principle owner of baseball's New York Yankees, forced the most respected man in their respective employments into unemployment. Cowboy coach for the las( 29 years, as well as the only coach in franchise history, Tom Landry was thrown out without a bit of thanks by the new owner who paid a reported $180 million for the team as well as Texas Stadium. \People will forget me pretty quick,\ said the ever humble 64-year-old Landry. How wrong he is-he will not only be remembered for his coaching ability and accomplishments, but also for his innovations and contributions to the game of football itself. On Monday, February 27, Landry bid his team an emotional farewell. \There was not a dry eye in the room,\ said Cowboy linebacker Eugene Lockhart. Quarterback Danny White stated it..best: \It was something I'll never forget. (The goodbye) must have lasted only five minutes but time stood still, believe me.\ J believe you Danny. Jones replaced Landry with his college roommate and teammate from Arkansas' 1964 National Championship football team, Jimmy Johnson. I do not think it would have done anybody any harm io let Landry resign, or maybe give him a front office position. Maybe he couldhave even been· .allowed to buy part of the team. But now it is aU too late. Landry is gone, and the uprising has begun. I just hope Jerry Jones realizes what he has done, and how much he has hurt the game of professional football. George Steinbrenner might not have hurt the game of baseball when he let Willie Randolph go through the free agent waters, but he certainly hurt the 'peace and serenity' (yea, right) of the New York Yankees. Randolph exudes class, and was one of only a few true Yankees. From the day of the 1976 .trade with the Pittsburgh Pirates, he gave his blood and heart to New York:, only to be run over when George was done with him'. Randolph was the Yankees'' starting second baseman for thirteen years, through countless managerial changes. and unending controversy. He was also co-captain of a team that has only had one other hold that JlOSt since Lou Gehrig. Like Landry, he was The Man arnc:Jngmen. But a yoltlllger man was available a.t Randolph's position, ar1d go()d old George could not parss up the opportunity. J\..t 3:00 in the afternoon 011 tlle day before Thanksgiving:, Willie Randolph was unemployed. The Yankees ~Ld aot need him any longer, I:JecJJase Steve Sax was signedt()1ej)lace him. See ya later, tha:nks !for your time and effort--we WJ()n't miss you. That's the mes:satg;e he received, but nothing ~o11ld have been farther from the !truth. Willie Rudolph was a diamond amo·ll£ the Bronx rough. He Wl\!S the Yankees' light in Geor~e Steinbrenner's fog. He was clas:s. I know you will make tile DC!dgers thankful that you are in their employ. and you wilL definitely. make the people ()( Los Angeles proud to hav-e you playing in their blue arnd white. Good · luck. Jerry and <J-oorge, you should be ashamed., 'Jam and Willie, I miss you botthalteady'! Q!nncnrbitnsis SPORTS ;Heart ':H:elps Bring Ho,me Hardware For Men's Track T·eam By HANS SCHWARZ The. men.'s· track team patticipated in the RPI Marty McConagh Indoor Invitational Track Meet last weekend and, as a result of some very gutsy performances, came away with twenty-five medals and a .third place team trophy. As the Running Dutchmen had only two first place finishers, Matt Guyette putting the shot 14.47m and Chip Silver running the 50m hurQles in 7.4 seconds, depth proved the key to success. In addition, six Union athletes, Mike Sirowich, Steve Hayes, Will Allen, Hans Schwarz, Bob Townsend, and Jim Campoli, had 'personal bests.' Led by Matt· Guyette, 14.47m, .and Jim Sweet, l3.21m. in the shot and Mike Sirowich; 1 I,43m. and Cliff Genge. 9.93m, in the 35 lb. weight throw, fine results were, as usual, turned in by the Union field event performers. Heart showed to be the ingredient needed for v~ctory. The ability to dig down within .oneself to achieve the best possible result was the difference between victory and defeat. Jim Campoli, despite injury, was able to get two third place finishes·,i-including one persoal best, bf doubling in the two longest races of the afternoon, 3000m and 5000m. Doug Manocco? also, was able to pull out all he had, to, stun Hudson Valley's 4x800m relay team with a last minute kick on the final straight. O~her strong showings were by Tom Frisbie, 2nd in 54.4 in the . 400m, Bob Lindybetg,, 4tb in 2:47.40 in the lOOOm, as well as Jeff Simkins, 2nd in 1:09;.7, Steve Hayes, 3rd,in 1:09.9, and Will Allen, 5th in 1:11.5, in the 500m. Overall, the Dutchmen were pleased with the results which they achieved, as was coach Larry Cotrell who said, \I'm proud of you all.\ Next week the men's track team will compete in the New York State Track and Field Championships at Colgate University. Pastizzo Wins Silver ·Medal at Empire State Games By CHRIS GRIMALDI Gary Pastizzo won the silver medal in figure skating this past weekend at the Empire State Games in Lake Placid, N.Y. The Union College Junior narrowly missed the top l c ~ ' Bill spot in the Junior Men's bracJcet. Pastizzo won the silver last year and took horne the gold two years ago. Gary is a member of the Achilles Figure Skating Club here on campus. Railton .. · ........ .Bill has been one of the keys to Union's success this season. He has S points in hta last two games (not including the game winner in overtime. In the first round of the playoffs against Canisius he also had 2 goals and two assists. Bill is currently third on the scoring chart 'fJith 11 go<Hs and 19 ~;~ssists for 30.points. He also . has the highest plus/ minus ratio on the team with 17. ''

I CONCORDIENSIS Ma·rch 2, 1989 Page 19 Men's ·Basketball Team On A Ro:ll <!ton cnrlt iens is SPORTS Sports Commentary Of Slapshots and Slams . By CARL R. . ' FRIEDRICH, JR. a comparison of Football and Baseball. In FootbaU, the ball is moved ~up and down the field in accordance with the ability of the players. In Baseball, even if a player masters the perfect swing, a. broken bat ends up in an out rather than a hit more often than not (unless the batter is using one of those hideous artificial. bats). Jerry Brescia leading The w.ay I am about to embark on a crazy and unrealistic a:rgument, By MARK ZIM~ERMAN Sports Edit~r The men's basketball team has won its last.three games and propelled itself. into tlJ.e · ECAC playoffs. Jerry Brescia, this weeks's' Athlete of the /Week, has played a large role · in the team's recent success. ·The Dufuhtnen squad hadtwo big wins ovr the weekend against Rochester and Alfred. Against Alfred, the team was doWn by a score of 46-24 at the naif. However,, the .second half was all Union, more specifically, all Brescia. Jerry had aU of his game high 24 points i11n the second half: He was 7 of 8 from the three point range and had a streak at one point of five in a . row. In addition, he hit 3· of 4 foul shots. Jerry's 24 points in the second half were only 2 shy of the entire Alfred team, who scored 26 as Onion overcame their deficit and won by 12, 84- 72. Against R.()chester he was the second le!tding scorer with 15 points. Once again he made his living ft-<>m behind the three point line. Jerry scored 5 of 8 tllree pointers as Union but hefo1e I do, pl~ase won 75-73. understand-that it is truly in the For the week, Jerry made 12 .spir.it of de-bate, and that .no of 19 ;three pointers. .offense should be taken .. After two years on the jayvee In the all-encompass·ing team, Jerry has made the most world of sports, two of his· opportunities as a starter distinctions can be made: a for the varsity. He has started sport. is eiiliet 'natural' or in all 23 games and thus far 'unnatural.' A natural sport is has scored. 203 points, third orte which situates the athlete highest on the· team. against few or no outside Coach Scanlon feets that elements. Ex.amples of these ''Jerry has come a long way.\ sports include {but me not He went onto say thathc was · exclusive to) Football, impressed with Jerry's all Basketball, 'Soccer, and most around perfortnallce .and that he . Track events. In these sports, ha·s become a \complete · the only real variables are the basketball player.\ Jerry has competitors .themselves. become aggressive and plays An unnatural sport is ·one both offense and defense with which involves an outside equal mte11sity. On the basis of :. element, which occasionnally his fine '88..:'89 season, Jerry cart play suct1 a significant role looks to play a key role as a as to determine the outcome of seni()r next year. an event. Some illustrations of Con.g:ratulations to Jerry unnatural sports are· Baseball, Brescia, tbis week's Athlete of Hockey {ice and field), Golf, the W-eek. _ · and Lacrosse. These sports, ---------------~---------- ........ ----------------=----------·.while incorporating .many of Natural sports however are much mote fun to watch. Their 'simplicity' allows for this. Watching Michael Jordandunk is undoubtably more quenching than a Jack Nicklaus putt for par. When most people watch natural sports, they can better appreciate the participants because of the visible difficulty observed (especially if you're 5'8\ and cannot get rim). Unnatural sport.'! appear almost foreign by comparison. R~gardless of their Tom Klm Sets 3, Records And Qualifies For Natipnals As Swim the same principles of natural sports, are intimately tlifferent. Both types of sports require · the same · physical manipulation of one's body, . but unnatrual sports further • require the mastery of an appearance, unnatural sports are secretly 'harder.\ It looks as though anyone can hit a tennis ball, but ask a good player just how he or she hit that last ball. The answer might very well be a ten minute lecture on how they decided in an instant what type of spin to use on the shot so they could recover from the cross court dive it took io hit the ball in the first place. The argument could go on and on, but the basic idea of it remains .the same. While no sport is easy to play, some which may look easy are in no way simplistic at all. And for all. those who are wondering about the ultimate sport, be assured that Beer Pong is highly unnatural. Team Fares Well At State Meet The men '.s .. swim team traveled to Buffalo this past weekend and came home with ten school records, a twelfth place finisb,and a qualifier for the Nationals. · · The Dutchmen broke five records in relays and .5 in individual performances. Tom Kim led the team as he bad three ind~vidual school records of his own. Kim qualified for ·the Nationals by tying for first place in the 100 freestyle with a time of 46.86. This was a new school record: In addition, he also set records in, the 200 free and the 50 free in times of 1:45.27 and 21.69 respectively. Freshman Tony Tremaglio had two school records of his own. In the 200 IM he had a time of 201:53~and in the 400 IM he had a time of 4:23.71. respec.tively. The medley . finished with a time of 3:45;07 while th~ free finished in 3:18.67. The medley team · .School rec()rds were also set finish put them in fourth place. by five of the relay teams. The · The fifth l'ecord was set in the 200 Medley team of Andrew · 200 Free by a team of Wagshul, Tim Lynch, Wertalil~. Walsh, Lynch and Tremaglio, a11d L.J. Wertalik: Kim. finished in a time of 1:44.21 Coach Bassett felt that the and a twelfth place finish. team bad a tremendous meet. Wagshui, 1'remaglio, Chris ''Everyone turned in their best Walsh and Kim set the record times of ·the season.\ She was in the 800 free in warrtmps very cptimistic that the team with a time of 7:22.14. The would im:prove on this year~s 400 Medley and 400 Free also dual meet record of 4-5 as the set schoof reecrds. Both wre led team is still so young, The by Kim and Tremaglio while team will graduate one senior, the third and fourth swimmers L. J. Wertalik. were Lynch: and Wagshul and Ne~t year's squad already Walsh a11d Wagshul looks quite promising. ·Hoop FiniShes w.ome'n's Season at 10-11 By KATE ALQUIST The women's basketball team finished the season with a 10-11 record. They needed to win their last three to finish above .500. Starting with Vassar, Union won, 70-57; to improve their record. Robin Romer led the scoring with 28 points .and 12 rebounds. Jen Hill had 11 points and -Jean Lopata had 10 rebounds. Continuing to win, the team beat Skidmore 67-38. Again, Romer led the scoring with 21 ap.d Gina Ptokosch added 12 points. To insure a winning season, the team played RPI on. the road. Previously, the team had lost to RPiby four. At ope point during the game, Union was down by 19 points. In the last 8 min11tes, they fought to come back within four. This was as close as they could get. With eigllt freshmen, two juniors and one senior, the teatn already looks quite strong for next yelll'. Senior Captain Julio (lan()•s leadership, intensity a11d. bustle win be missed. Ne~ leadership will be provided by future Captain Wendy,_Vincent and returning Captain Gina Prokosch. Tlle squad should continue to improve with the return of freshman Robin R()met who led the team in scoring with a 15.2 average and 8.8 rebounding average. Freshman Lisa Hilton led in blocked shots and Gina Prokosch led in assists with a 2.2 average. With all of the returning tale11t the team sbould' have a very successful seas.on next year. , · outside element to :reach the same goal. For this reason, the desired ends in an unnatural sport are harder to achieve, and therefore it may be implied that unnatural SJ!Orts are harder to · master. . An example ·Of ths would be BA'SKETBAL·L PLAYOFF SEEDINGS Hamilton 20-4 Albany 17-8 Geneseo 19-9 St. John Fisher 18-8 Ithaca 16~9 U. of Rochestor 16-9 Nazareth 14-11 UNION 13-10 / Playoff Matchups: 1 vs. B, 2 vs. 7, 3 vs. 6, 4vs. 5 ~ UNION .WILL PLAY AT ALBANY STATE ON SATURDAY NIGHT AT 8:00 PM ~GDtPrP®~li UNION ~IP®~V~ .....

'· Dan -Gou:ld, got Union on the board fln~t against Canlslus. Union never looked, back as they won s .. g; Dave Sussman passes of.f. · U!JiO~ · gained a 'berth ·lhte tlte ECAC tournament .. They :play at Albany State ·on Saturday. M.en's Basketball Team Wins last 4: ECAC Tournament Bou.nd By GREG GOETZ Associate Spor'ts Editor During most (){ the regulat . season, the Union College Men's basketball team hovered around the .500 mark. As the regular seaso11 nneared its finish. receiving an ECAC bid become a :POssibility. within their grasp.. T<> reach post- ! season play,. the Dutchmen I would have to maintain a level of play they bad not shown often enougil during the season. They took their destiny into theil:. han.ds, and won their last 5 of 6, against some higher regarded teams. Last Monday. the hoopsters scored an ea&y 84-66 victory over the Norwicb Cadets. Once they assumed a 10-8lead at the 16:07 mark ()D a ba~ket by Elgin Rhodes, they never looked back This basket began a 27-8 point stretch that saw the senior g11ard Scott Gibbs come off the bench to can two three pointers, his fust of five in the game. Senior center Doug Gregory was the high scorer with 18 points, and Rhodes added 17. Next, tbe Rochester YeUowJackets visited Memorial Fieldhouse on last Friday nigllt. Rochester had a taller, more exJJerienced team. which is rariked sixth in the ECAC, but U11ion would not be intimidated, ForwardRhodes scored a hsket with two seconds left to give :the Dutchmen a 41-40 halftime lead. It was a nip and tuck battle with neither team scoring more than three unanswered hoops. The 75-7 3 victory was sealed by two Rha<kls freethrows with : 12 seconds rel[laining. Rhodes led with 21 points. Steve Nicolas unselfishly controlled' the ball and dished out 10 ~sists, and J cny Brescia began ius Lhrcc p()i.nL barrage with 15 points, on five three point bombs. The most exhilirating performance of the season was against the ALfred University Saxon~. recipients of an NCAA play()ff bid. Saturday afternoon, Union hosted a much quicker and aggressive team than the night before, and took a while to adjust to the Saxon's different pressure defenses and ability to drive to the hoop. At halftime, Alfred led46-24. In the second half, the Dutchmen hoopsters twned the momentum around. by gaining their composure and drastically They took their destiny into their llands. ~arch 2, 1989 Dutchmen Down .. · C.ani.s:ius 6-3-· . . ~ . - . . . ' Future Depends On Last Night By ANDREW SEEWALD A Tuesday night deadline, . the big game played on Wednesday night, and Thursday publication have forced tllis beat writer to· abandon the more conventional game r~port-story. Little worry. there is- plenty of · hockey oo write about. Regardless of whether the Dutchmen won or lost at Hamilton in their ECAC West semifinal game last night, it has been a marvelous season . for the boys that call Achilles Rink home. The season began · when 2,500 people packed Achilles on November 4 and saw a lot of unfamiliar flfCes. Behin4 the_ Union bench was Bruce Delventhal, previously known to Union fans only as the man whose R~T team always seemed to eliminate the . Dutchmen from the playoffs. And out on the ice there seemed to be two new faces for each familiar one, because in fact there were. The te:am that the Who.-Are- These-Kids were playing that opening Saturday was· RPI. The same RPl that only one year earlier bad demolished the Dutchmen 1.3·0. Three times the Engineers pulled ahead, and three times the Dutchmen caught _up. Finally, · with the o:vertime • · period drawing to a close, a · veteran kid Terry Campbell, spotted a new kid, Tim Cregan, sprinting all alone toward the RPI net. Campbell, who has led the Dutchmen in assists in each of his two seasons, made no mistake with the pass. Cregan buried the puck past Steve Duncan, and the :Dutchmen were There for the game and on their way to getting There for the season. Where is There? They're there · right now: a high level of play against high level competition. Ever since that RPI ~arne, tremendous excitement has effervesced from the youthful enthusiasm exuded-on the ice. It hasn't been just the kids who have made the Kids so strong, though. Sure, a rookie had the big goal against RPI. But in the next game. a more impo~tant divisional contest against Elmira Jur~ior co- captain Guy Logan scored the first of his three hat tricks to. lead the Dutchmen. Elmira is the team that the Dutchmen are contending with for not only tile ECAC championship, but also for an NCAA bid. Juniox~ goaltender Ron Kinghorn, who had all 18 Union wins through Satu.rday. has been invaluable. Elev.en times Kinghorn has · held the opposition to two goals or less, including tllree shutouts. Junior Dan Gould, who had Ever since that RPI game, . tremendous excitement has. effervesced from the youthful enthusiasm exuded on the ice. the tying goal against RPI, is the -second leading score:r to Campbell with 33 pomts. There is definitely a mutual depe!Jdency among the freshmen and the upperclassmen. Logan has scored 19 goals and so it is no coincidence that his center, freshman Craig Ferrero, is second on the team with 20 assists. Gould's production can be ~ partially credited to freshman wing Bill Railton, ~who has 30 points. Junior Nick Baratoff has been an effective penalty killer partialty thanks <to freshmen ·Chris . D'Orio and Riclc Clifford. And vice versa on all· of tbe .above. Back on the blue line. Seniot co-captain Scott Manley has watched his play get even ' better as his freshman partner. Scott Whitney. has improved on his already c.onsistent play-. \If the · fr'{lshtne~ .are tile body. then the uppperd.assmen are the brain and the heart,\ says Coach Delventhal. It doesn't take a biology major to figure out that one can't operate without tile otller. Right now. this unit, B.ody, brain, heart and all has :its sights set on an ECAC championship and an NCAA bid. Saturday nights 6-3 victory over Canisius was tile continuation of a march to Match that began in November. * * * * * Here are the ·possible scenarios for Satu;rday's ECAC championship and for the NCAA tournament. If Union won ·last night and RIT beat Elmira, then Urrion goes to RIT on Saturday night, with the Dutchmen all but guaranteed an NCAA bid. Union· lost to RIT 6-3 at Achilles Rink on February 4. If Union won and Elmira beat RlT, then the Soaring Eagles would C()me to Union Saturday night, with both teams almost assured of NCAA bids. Union beat Elntita 5..,3 at Achilles on Nov~rriber 9~ If Hamilton won and Elmira won, then the Dutchmen cross their fingers that Babson ot UMass-Bostondon't snealc into the NCAA's from the East. If Hamilton won and RIT won, then th~ Dutchmen would most likely tec~ive an. NCAA bid. . The NCAA playoffs begin either March 10 or 1 I.

~ ( 3lJ, ~ tJj a: 5 >- g., ... '~ ... ~ \,. . .. c. .• Dan Gould got Union on the board first against Canlslus. Union never looked back as they won 6·3. Dave Sussman passes off. Union gained a berth l'nto the ECAC tournament. They play at Albany State on Saturday. Men'·s Basketball Team Wi:ns Last 4: ECAC Tournament Bound By GREG GOETZ Associate Sports Editor During most of the regular season, the Union College Men's basketball team hovered around the .500 mark. As the regular season nneared its finish, receiving an ECAC bid become a possibility within their grasp. To reach post- season play, the Dutchmen would have to maintain a level of play they had not shown often enough during the season. They took their destiny into their hands, and won their last 5 of 6, against some higher regarded teams. Last Monday, the hoopsters scored an easy 84-66 victory over the Norwich Cadets. Once they assumed a 10-8lead at the 16:07 mark on a basket by Elgin Rhodes, they never looked back This basket began a 27-8 point stretch that saw the senior guard Scott Gibbs come off the bench to can two three pointers. his first of five in the game. Senior center Doug Gregory was the high scorer with 18 points, and Rhodes added 17. Next, the Rochester Yellowjackets visited Memorial Fieldhouse on last Friday night. Rochester had a taller, more experienced team, which is ranked sixth in the ECAC, but Union would not be intimidated. Forward Rhodes scored a basket with two seconds left to give the Dutchmen a 41-40 halftime lead. It was a nip and tuck battle with neither team scoring more than three unanswered hoops. The 75-73 victory was sealed by two Rhodes freethrows with : 12 seconds remaining. Rhodes led with 21 points. S tevc Nicolas unselfishly controlled the ball and dished out I 0 assist-;, and Jerry Brescia began h1s three pomt barrage with 15 points, on five three point bombs. The most exhilirating performance of the season was against the Alfred University Saxon~, recipients of an NCAA playoff bid. Saturday afternoon, Union hosted a. much quicker and aggressive team than the night before, and took a while to adjust to the Saxon's different pressure defenses and ability to drive to the hoop. At halftime, Alfred led 46-24. In the second half, the Dutchmen hoopsters turned the momentum around by gaining their composure and drastically They took their destiny into their hands. improving their shooting' accuracy. Jerry Brescia exploded for 24 points on 7 for 8 three point shooting and three foul shots. Union erased the 22 point deficit and took their first lead, 74-72, with 3:36 left on the clock. Gregory was lost for tlle season when he broke a bone in his foot near the end of the second half. The leading sc(}rer was Brescia with 24, and Gregory and Rhodes both finished with 18 points. Tuesday night, the Skidmore Thoroughbreds trotted into Memorial Fieldhouse. Union trailed until Rhodes scored eight consecutive points between 3:13 and :58 remaining in the first half. Union led at the half34-33. Union walked away to an 80- 68 victory after an 8-0 run between 15:02 and 12:55. Perhaps the most exciting part of this game were the two male streakers in brown ski masks who barefootted it across the court during a timeout with 6:01 left in the second half. The leading scorers were Rhodes with 23, and Nestor with career highs of 21 points and 12 rebounds. According to head coach Bill Scanlon, reaching the tournament is \a great accomplishment for this team. They have worked extremely hard all year long. Everyone has played with heart, desire and guts. They deserve this reward.\ The hoopsters finished the regular season with a record of 14-10. March 2, 1989 Dutchmen Down Canisius 6-3; F;uture :Depends On L·ast Night By ANDREW SEEWALD A Tuesday Hight deadline, the big game ]Jlayed on Wednesday nigll.t, and Thursday publicatioJJ bave forced this beat writer to abandon the more conventional game report-story. Little worry, there is plenty of hockey to write about. Regardless of whetller the Dutchmen won or lost at Hamilton in their ECAC West semifinal game last 11ig:ht, it has been a marvelous season for the boys that call A.chilles Rink home. The season bega11 when 2,500 people packed A.chilles on November 4 and saw a lot of unfamiliar faces. Bellind the Union bench was Bruce Delventhal, previously lcnown to Union fans only as tlle man whose RIT team always seemed to eliminate the Dutchmen from the -playoffs. And out on the ice there seemed to be two new faces for each familiar one, bec;a'Use in fact there were. The team that the Who-Are- These-Kids were playi11g that opening Saturday wa~ RPI. The same RPI that only one year earlier had demolislled the Dutchmen 13-0. Three times the En~ineers pulled ahead, and tluee times the Dutchmen caugllt up. Finally, with the overtime period drawing to a dose, a veteran kid Terry Campbell, spotted a new kid, Tim Cregan, sprinting all alone toward the RPI net. Campbell, VJIIo has led the Dutchmen in assists in each of his two seascos, made no mistake with t,lle pass. Cregan buried the puck past Steve Duncan, and the Dutchmen were There for the game and on their way to getting There for the season. Where is There? They're there · right now: a high level of play against high level competition. Ever since that RPI ~ame, tremendous excitement has effervesced from the youthful enthusiasm exuded on the ice. It hasn't been just the kids who have made the Kids so strong, though. Sure, a rookie had the big goal against RPI. But in the next game, a more important divisional contest against Elmira Junior co- captain Guy Logan scored the first of his three hat tricks to. lead the Dutchmen. Elmira is the team that the Dutchmen are contending with for not only the ECAC championship, but also for an NCAA bid. Juniot .• goaltender Ron Kinghorn, who had all 18 Union wins through Saturday. has been invaluable. Eleven times Kinghorn has held the opposition to two goals or less, including three shutouts. Junior Dan Gould, who had Ever since that RPI game, tremendous excitement bas effervesced from the youthful enthusiasm exuded on the ice. the tying goal against RPI, is the second leading scorer to Campbell with 33 points. There is definitely a mutual dependency among the freshmen and the upperclassmen. Logan has scored 19 goals and so it is no coincidence that his center, freshman Craig FerFero. is second on the team with 20 assists. Gould's production can be partially credited to freshman wing Bill Railton, who has 30 points. Junior Nick Baratoff has been an effective penalty killer partially thanks to freshmen Chris D'Orio and Rick Clifford. And vice versa on all of the above. Back on the blue line, Senior co-captain Scott Manley has watched his play get even better as his freshman partner, Scott Whitney, has improved on his already consistent play. \If the freshmen are the body. then the uppperclassmen are the brain and the heart,\ says Coach Delventhal. It doesn't take a biology major to figure out that one can't operate without the other. Right now, this unit, Body, brain, heart and all has its sights set on an ECAC championship and an NCAA bid. Saturday night's 6-3 victory over Canisi us was the continuation of a march to March that began in November. * * * * * Here are the possible scenarios for Saturday's ECAC championship and for the NCAA tournament. If Union won last night and RIT beat Elmira, then Union goes to RIT on Saturday night, with the Dutchmen all but guaranteed an NCAA bid. Union lost to RIT 6-3 at Achilles Rink on February 4. If Union won and Elmira beat RIT, then the Soaring Eagles would come to Union Saturday night, with both teams almost assured ofNCAA bids. Union beat Elmira 5-3 at Achilles on November 9. If Hamilton won and Elmira won, then the Dutchmen cross their fingers that Babson or UMass-Boston don't sneak into the NCAA's from the East. If Hamilton won and RIT won, then the Dutchmen would most likely receive an NCAA bid. The NCAA playoffs begin either March 10 ot 11. SUPPORT. UNIGN SP,ORtS . . '~....... ' '\-'~· .

\I .- - '. .. • 1877 . . y-oi. ·CXVIIl, N&. 16 Schenectady, .New York March 9, 1989 ·Bookstore Cracks- Down·on Petty Theft Schenectady grants use of. 740 Union Street to Delta Upsilo;- fraternity after a month of dis!)ute. Delta Upsilon Regains By JAY FREELAND News Editor House Lost · In ''Heat Starting this spring. the · Union College Bookstore will undergo some major changes in its· shoplifting and petty theft dilemmas. In conjunction with Union College Campus Of The Moment'' By R.. REED WHIDDEN News . Editor Recently legal council to< the Delta Upsilon Fratemity inet with legal council to the City of Schenectady to discuss: the decision of February 1 regarding the fraternity's u~e ()f 740 Union Street. D e1ta Upsilon now has the rigat to total use of the house save· actual resi.dency and ~ajor construction. In light of comments wtd complaints made to the B<>ard of Zoning Appeals, the citydid not grant· Delta Upsil()n a Special Use Permit that wolild allow them to use 740 Union Street as a fraternity hc11se. The board ordered them to leave the house and to change Locks on the doors. The frater11ity was also warned that if tftere was a congregation on the premises a ;'warrant would. be issued. for the arrest of the president of the Delta Upsilon Alumni Board of Trust~es,\ according to Jack Catanzaro, president af Delta Upsilon. The Board claimed that Delta Upsilon had been using the house as they would a . : security and the Schenectady Police Department, shoplifting will become a Class A Misdemeanor for larceny. · fraternity house. because the area is not zoned for a fraternity, they werejustified in their actions. Catanzaro...- commented that the fraternity has only been using the building as the former occupants once did. They had been using it for meetings, social, gatherings, alumni functions, and pledge functions. After some discussion, it was concluded that it was ''in the heat of the moment, to anger and false accusations that the City overstepped it's bounds and · denied (Delta Upsilon's) use of property (they) owned,\ according to Catanzaro. He also commented that the City \felt it was not necessary to take this through the appeals process.\ However, the appeal for a Special Use Permit must go before a · Superior Court judge. This wilt take place sometime in May ... Catanzaro feels that, \without question (Delta Upsilon) has won round two. (Delta Upsilon) was able to prove to the City that 99 percent of the accusations made by the neighbors were false and gross exaggerations at best.\ In response to the Board's decision regarding the use of their property, Catai1zaro stated that, \Delta Upsilon is very happy with the decision. We felt we've used the building all along responsibly and wisely. It was a shame that we had to be out the six, weeks we were disallowed to usc the building. Catanzaro also commented that the College's Administration \has been a real help through all this and they did every thing they could to accommodate us.'' · Under New York State Penal Law, \a person steals property and commits larceny when, with the intent to deprive another of property or to appropriate the same to himself or to a third person, he wrongfully takes, obtains or withhold$ such property from If caught' u.nder the new policy, a stud.ent may find himself with a one year maximum sentence in county jail or a $1,000 m~ximum fine, or both. an owner thereof.\ It is under this definition that shoplifting fits as larceny. The new policy, as adopted by the bookstore .with complete approval from the President's Cabinet, makes an attempt to curb the number of incidences of shoplifting at the Campus store. Although only five people have been caught this year, Elias Majlaton, Bookstore Manager, suspects that for each person caught, another dozen or so are not. Majlaton hopes that the stricter penalties of the new policy will make students think twice before they try to take something. Under Union's old policy, a student who was caught shoplifting would be taken to the. Union College Security off1ce, a report would be filed, · and then the student would have to face the Dean to receive disciplinary action. This action, however, often resulted in just a warning to the student. Continued on page 3 Future Implementation. Of Geltime Pending AAC Approval By ELISE FOODY News Ed-itor Time's up. That is, the two y ...... · trial perio4 for the institution of Geltime_at Union College has just a:bout come to a close. Now it is up to the Academic Affairs Council to decide whether the College should continue to implement this particular type of class schedule . Ort March 6, 1986, the AAC accepted the Geltime proposal from the Committee on Union Education. Ther6 however existed the stipulation that after · a two-year trial period, a committee would be formed to examine the schedule's successfulness, and to present their findings to the AAC who would then vote on the possibility -of a continuation of the schedule. In _keeping with this regulation, the Geltime Committee was formed by the AAC. Its members include Professor Bradley Lewis (Economics), Professor Gary Reich (Physics), Keith Bemis '90, and John Meier '91. . Monday of this past week, the Geltime · Committee presented their report to the AAC. It is expected that the AAC will not reach a definite decision on Geltime until sometime next term. In preparation for the presentation of the report to the AAC, the Geltime Committee surveyed and conducted meetings with facu.lly and · students about both Geltime and pre-Geltime clas schedules. The Committee also reviewed the usage of class time slots under both schedules and developed possible alternatives to the current weekly schedule. Overall, faculty reaction to Gelti:me is favorable. The report maintains that \A five to four majority of the faculty surveyed prefer continuing with Geltime over a retutn to the pre-Geltime schedule.\ The surveys also conclude the faculty believe Gel time is more time-efficient. However, on a Overall, faculty reaction to Geltime is favorable . .. the student opinion on Geltime is distinctly divided. somewhat negative note, the surveys revealed that the average rating for Geltime is lower than the average rating for the pre-Geltime schedule. And finally, some faculty members believe that it is necessary to have some classes meet more than three times per week. Student opinion on Geltime is distinctly divided. Juniors and seniors preferred pre- Geltime scheduling and freshman and sophomores preferred the current Geltime schedul~. Students were also divided on the effects of Geltime on their study-time and class preparation time. A more positive aspect of Geltime, the report notes, is that the scheduling of classes Continued on page 3 PHOTO OF THE WEEK: What about the Nett? See editorial on the Restore The Nott Committee, and why it might nbt be helping. Page B. . '. . i

liege 1877 Yol. CXVIII, No. 16 Schenectady, New York March 9, 1989 J! • •• ' I I ~ :§ ....J § en a: ::r (.) I> OJ 0 0 if Schenectady grants use of 740 Union Street to Delta Upsilon fraternity after a month of dispute. Delta Upsilon Regains House Lost In \Heat Of The Moment\ By R. REED WHIDDEN News Editor Recently legal council to the Delta Upsilon Fraternity met with legal council to the City of Schenectady to discuss the decision of February 1 regarding the fraternity's use of 740 Union Street. Delta Upsilon now has the right to total use of the house save actual residency and major construction. In light of comments and complaints made to the Board of Zoning Appeals, the city did not grant Delta Upsilon a Special Use Permit that would allow them to use 740 Union Street as a fraternity house. The board ordered them to leave the house and to change locks on the doors. The fratemity was also warned that if there was a congregation on the premises a \warrant would be issued for the arrest of the president of the Delta Upsilon Alumni Board of Trustees,\ Depep,de:td~ ~p. 7 Hurricane: JDan ... .. p .. ··tt· Kill \em Alh Tne Quintesse.atiat···· Metal A:l:bum···. ... ) •. 12\ Union to Face according to Jack Catanzaro, president of Delta Upsilon. The Board claimed that Delta Upsilon had been using the house as they would a fraternity house. because the area is not zoned for a fraternity, they were j11stified in their actions. Catanzaro .. commented that the fraternity has only been using the building as the former occupants once did. They had been using it for meetings, social gatherings, alumni functions, and pledge functions. After some disc11ssion, it was concluded that it was \in the heat of the moment, to anger and false accusations that the City overstepped it's bounds and denied (Delta Upsilon's) use of property (they) owned,\ according to Catanzaro. He also commented that the City \felt it was not necessary to take this through the appeals process.\ However, the appeal for a Special Use Permit must go before a Superior Court judge. This will take place sometime in May. Catanzaro feels that, \without question (Delta Upsilon) has won round two. (Delta Upsilon) was able to prove to the City that 99 percent of the accusations made by the neighbors were false and gross exaggerations at best.\ In response to the Board's decision regarding the usc of their property, Catanzaro stated that, \Delta Upsilon is very happy with the decision. We felt we've used the building all along responsibly and wisely. It was a shame that we had to be out the six wcck.s we were disallowed to usc the building. Catanzaro also commented that the College's Administration \has been a real help through all this and they did every thing they could to accommodate us.\ Bookstore Cracks Down.On Petty Theft By JAY FREELAND News Editor Starting this spring, the Union College Bookstore will undergo some major changes in its shoplifting and petty theft dilemmas. In conjunction with Union College Campus security and the Schenectady Police Department, shoplifting will become a Class A Misdemeanor for larceny. Under New York State Penal Law, \a person steals property a~d commits larceny when, wtth the intent to deprive another of property or to appropriate the same to himself or to a third person, he wrongfully takes, obtains or withholds such property from If caught under the new policy, a student may find himself with a one year maximum sentence in co11nty jail or a $1,00() maximum fine, or both. an owner thereof.\ It is under this definition that shoplifting fits as larceny. The new policy, as adopted by the bookstore with complete approval from the President's Cabinet, makes an attempt to curb the number of incidences of shoplifting at the Campus store. Although only five people have been caught this year, Elias Majlaton, Bookstore Manager, suspects that for each person caught, another dozen or so arc not. Majlaton hopes that the stricter penalties of the new policy will make students think twice before they try to take something. Under Union's old policy, a student who was caught shoplifting would be taken to the. Union College Security office, a report would be filed, and then the student would have to face the Dean to receive disciplinary action. This action, however, often resulted in just a warning to the stude11t. Continued on page 3 Future Implementation Of Geltime Pending AAC Approval By ELISE FOODY News Editor Time's up. That is, the two y.... • trial period for the institution of Gel time at Union College has just about come to a close. Now it is up to the Academic Affairs Council to decide whether the College should continue to implement this particular type of class schedule. On March 6, 1986, the AAC accepted the Geltime proposal from the Committee on Union Education. There however existed the stipulation that after a two-year trial period, a committee would be formed to examine the schedule's successfulness, and to present their findings to the AAC who would then vote on the possibility of a continuation of the schedule. In keeping with this regulation, the Geltime Committee was formed by the AAC. Its members include Professor Bradley Lewis (Economics). Professor Gary Reich (Physics), Keith Bemis '90, and John Meier '91. Monday of this past week, the Geltime Committee presented their report to the AAC. It is expected that the AAC will not reach a definite decision on Geltime until sometime next term. In prepatation for the presentation of the report to the AAC, the Geltimc Committee surveyed and conducted meetings with faculty and students about both Geltimc and prc-Geltimc clas schedules. The Committee also reviewed the usage of class time slots under both schedules and developed possible alternatives to the current weekly schedule. Overall, faculty reaction to Geltime is favorable. The report maintains that \A five to four majority of the faculty surveyed prefer continuing with Gcltime over a return to the prc-Gcltime schedule.\ The surveys also conclude the faculty believe Gel time is more time-efficient. However, on a Overall, faculty reaction to Geltime is favorable . . . the student opinion on Geltime is distinctly divided. somewhat negative note, the surveys revealed that the average rating for Gcltimc is lower than the average rating for the prc-Geltime schedule. And finally, some faculty members believe that it is necessary to have some classes meet more than three times per week. Student opinion on Gcltime is distinctly divided. Juniors and seniors preferred prc- Gcltime scheduling and freshman and sophomores preferred the current Gcltime schedule. Students were also divided on the effects of Geltime on their study-time and class preparation time. A more positive aspect of Geltime, the report notes, is that the scheduling of classes Continued on page 3 .. ~ ·~ .....,...:: ')-~ - ~ , ... ~ -~ -:.. ·~· .•• ··% ~~~- ~ • ~, ;··~\(< ~ •'. . ,,.,:; -~ .d{' ' :~' ~ /'' . . ~~ -~. .- } .<~·~ , . _.,.. ......... ' .'\'4-J;.-:.' / '~~~-'>:I' ::J ,·-,;. .':._ ·\~ .'\-~ 'H $. ·}\\\ ~ ~~, '. ~ . ' ~-~ ~. -~.~~ .., ~ . '~ PHOTO OF THE WEEK: What about the Nott? See editorial on the Restore The Nett Committee, and why it might not be helping. Page 8.

· Page 2 . CON(;ORDIENSIS Mq.rch 9., 1989 I. OJ,nncnrbi.en.&is NEW,S. ANALYSIS Bush Doesn't Need A Black Eye By BRUCE HAY, JR. Of the many things by which the !lush Administration may be judged in its early days, the most important js the resolution of the John Tower 'scandal'. The scandal revolves around the nomination of John Tower for Secretary of Defense, a high ranking cabinet position. According to the Senate inlcrprctation of an FBI inquiry on the background of Tower., he is not only an infidel, but a drunk and a crook. One other issue is· the loss of love ao~nongst some former colleagues who · may be needlessly putting up a fight to block the nomination of the credentials of Tower. However. it could definitely be said that certain allegations are a. little overreaching, for instance, his womanizing which has supposedly included Soviet women. When asked if he would abstain from dating, The Other Side Of Nixon's Administrati.on By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Historians have already sketched Richard Nixon into the history books as one of the worst presidents in U.S. history. It is no lie that our generation snickers whenever his name is mentioned, while squawks such as \Watergate\ and \Vietnam\ arc regurgitated in the process. For all his misgivings, Richard M. Nixon was a good president, and has, over the course of the pas(15 years, received a bad rap which in full he did not deserve. Nixon was elected in 1968, during a low point in American history. From the very beginning of his tenure, the most immediate problem he ' ,. faced was the Vietnam ·conflict. John F. Kennedy and Lyndon ·- Johnson dumped the situation on him, and it was all Nixon could. do to remedy th:e situation. JF:K and LBJ had escalated the. U.S. troop support to incredihle proportions, yet it was Richard M. Nixon who effectively ended U.S. Commitment there- - which was exactly what the American people wanted. Nixon pledged to end the conflict, and he did. One side car on the South East Asian raHway to Communism (aka The Ho Chi Minh Trail) which Nixon dealt with was the U.S. \invasion\ of neutral Cambodia. Nixon wanted an end to war between the South and . North · much like his public vow not to touch .alcohol, Tower replied, \I'm a single man. I do date women.\ That does not When asked if he would abstain from d'ating, much like his public v.ow not to touch alcohol, Tower replaied, \I'm a single man. I do date women.\ seem like such an outrageous proclamation from a single man, even after he has made it Vietnamese, and .to do so, the North (or V.C.) had to be pursued into Cambodia where they maintained bases 'with Cambodian approval. It is a sad truth that Nixon was called a blood·thir.sty hawk for . bombing Cambodia, while this was precisely what the Allied forces did to defeat their enemies in both World W ru:s. Despite Nixon's belligerent tag, he actually was a great worker f<:>r peace, Again1'unlike JFK and LBt Nixon worked with both the Soviets and Red Chinese for a more peaceful world. Nixon ope.ned up relations with China, and went so far as to make plans . for JFK and LBJ had escalated the . u.s .. ~roop support to incredible proportions, yet it was Richard M.. Nixon who effectively ended U.S. commitment there. trade with them. Nixon negotiated with the Soviet Union as welL For the first time since the beginning_s. of the cold war, reductions of arms were on the agenda. In the 1972 summit in Moscow, the results included the ABM and: SALT treaties, which both SENIORS IN ALL lVlAJORS The Allen Prize in non-fiction is for you Deadline March 29 Ask for information in the English Department clear that b.e was nQt monogarno11s during ltis f:i,rst marriage. However, his vow, '''I have never been an alcoholic nor dependent .on alcohol,\ bas been lambasted by critics as .being a c.fassic ;sign of an aleoholi~. especiaUy after Tower mentioned a drinking problem ill the 70's. The implication .of Tower being a crook comes from some ~f his influence W·ith regards to·defense prec.urement which :is also under scrutiny on Capitol Hill. Hi's earnings from such business are reportedly ever $700,000. Probably the biggest re~on that Tower is not ·meeting Gpen arms is his personality-- not aU of his past colleagues regard. him as a friendly individual. It would be advantageous for a high ranking official to be able to get along with Congress. Senator Sam Nunn has .said. -that he .feels that Towei \'is qualified based on policy, to be Secretary {)f Defense.... not were aimed at ending the buildup of nuclear ,a:rsenals. While the conference ill.ilo way melted the. cold war, it provided the necessary first . steps towards the hope for a mote peaceful wqr~d Domestically, Nixon was again a fo:.:gotten . ch~pion .of the American people. Perhaps the greatest reflection gf this was his program for weliare reform. Nixon's version of this was tossed around' Congress from 1968 to 1972 before ra.tif.ica,ti.On, .. :and : '.aftf;r .· Congressmen significantly stripped it of all significance. _ Nixon wanted a guaranteed : income for impoverished ! families while world:ng for ' increased social well-being. . . This key idea was eventually scrapped by Congress. ·. Nixon worked against racism as well. Unfortunately, time, along with an effective media, has continued to cloud this · aspect of Nixon as well. He has long been shunned by black voters, mainly due to l)is 1960 campaign's neutral stance on the racial equality issue. Nixon in no way intended to be labeled.a racist, but his stance was twisted into a crcatiofl of racist sympathies, In ·.fact, despite advice to the contrary, , Nixon promoted plans to qualified ..... based on some of the· behavior patterns, as well as tlte revolving door a.p.pear.ance ... '' More irnportantly , than th.e nominatio.n of Tower, is the Senator SaiD Nunn has said th·at he feels .that Tower \is qualified, based on .policy, to be secretary of Defe.nse • • • not qualified • • • based on some of tb.e behavior patterns as wen as the revolving door a.ppearance. effect all of this will have on President Bush. If he back~ down to Congress arid picks another candidate he only solidifies his image as a \wimp\. If Tower is ~ comfirmed, it will c;:~rtai.nly set a bad tone in regatd tG: Busb's decision making prQC~ss, much the same .as Reagan before him. encourage ....black · owned. businesses, and federal funding for increased educational opportunities fo:t minorities: especi~ly on tradit-ionally neglected. areas of the South. · Perhaps the problem~ of the Nixon Administration were due to the press, as it was. and still Perhaps the problems with the · Nixon Admiqistrat.ion were due. to the press as it was and : sJill 1 i~. ,k,n()w~. ,that. t~e ~ twO·.:. did ,,n·ot m1x well.' ' is knq~n ·the two did not mi,K, well.· Nixon's avoidance and fear, may be another reason for: the unrelenting badgering of him, ·In the world ·of a door . bashi-hg 'media, though, an: unfriendly pres-s can he anyon.v's worst enemy. ·For Nixon: the press was the executioner and undertaker. · Nixon will never be: appreciated for the good he did,, and considering his other accomplishments, perhaps .with good reason. The time has· come, though, for a mote· honest, objective look at the. nian. He, like others, had great dreams, and urrlike others, succeeded in accomplishing them. ''The Bins are . Corn.ing!'' r: ,,. I : I ~. ,, l< i ! .I I I : I .. ) .. : f ~-·, ~ . ~ 1 '.

) .. f ~-·, ~ . ; 1 '. CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 Page 3. -· tJ ~----~~------~--~~~--~~~-~ .. ~.~~~~~~~~--------------------------~~--~--- -Co·mmitfee Pres.ents -E~valuation Of Gel- .. .T A· d · ·· . ttme .. ·. o .. · .·ca· ·.·.em.Jc Affairs Con-neil CQntlnued from page 1 and other specific meeting has gone smoothly and that times. there· has also been a Another alternative to significant increase in the total Geltim~ is Galled Simplified number of sections of courses Geltime. This schedule has being offered at the College. morning. classes beg·inning at According to the report, 8:30 AM and ending at 3:20 1:>wight Wolf, Registrar af the PM. Another feature of this College, has. stated that schedule is that there are eight \Gehime is working class periods and seve:n lab satiSfactorily. it is providing an periods per week. Under this improved utilization of ·the · plan, there would be two time slots· and a consequent morning Tuesday/Thursday reduction in scheduling cla~s times as well as the con:fllcts~\ current afternoon time slot, and The Geltime Comm.ittee has all_ ~lasses . w~~d inclu4~ the made several·recommendations requuedten mmute break. to the AAC concern_ing These alternatives and Geltime. Am()ng them, the . canclusions are just a sampling ·Committee stresses· to not·. of findings in the report that return to pre-Geltime has been placed before the scheduling. They also propose · . AAC If the AAC decides to adding ten min11te to the veto tQe continuation of typical one hundred minute Geltime, chances are that the Tuesday/l'hursday class. Th® immediate effects of the new extra ten minutes would serve proposal. whatever it might be, as a required classtimebreak. will not be instituted by the One alternative to Geltime beginning of next year's fall which the Committee includes. , term. There would be too many in tileir report is a schedule modifications to iron out and called Flextime. This schedule . not enough time to complete allows for classes to begin at · them. H<;>wever, th~ jury is Residence Life Offers Housing Alternatives As Lottery Approaches By ADAM GUNZBERG and RICHARD HOWARD The housing lottery annually takes place dUring the· second week of May. Lottery ·numbers for room assignments are rand•omly chosen by a · computer and distributed to all. The ordet of preference begins with sophomores, then juniors, · • and finally seniors for doubles, triples, and suites. The actual choosing of rooms take place in Achilles Rink. AU available . rooms will be displayed and · there wjll be residence advisors to explain the layout of their . respective dormitories~ When · students go to choose triples . · and suites. all the roommates : must be present. Jt is possible, · however, for one person to . choose a double, but · roommates may be assigned. for those individuals involved in Greek life. once the 95% · occupancy level in each house . is reached, then the other members wiU be eligib'le to enter the housing lottery. Other options include Smith House, and singles. Smith House is a coed co-op which . .favors seniors and has eighteen beds. There will be a singles lottery and preference will be given to seniors, then juniors and finally, sophomores. The possibility of additional co-ed. theme housing is also being discussed. · The pFoject involves the ex:pansion of our current common _theme housing, to help promote a living-learning atmosphere at Union. Students are encouraged to submit proposals with concrete~ carefully thought .. out goals which show how their group will contribute to heightening the intellectual. academic, and social environment in the Co I I e g e com m u n it y . • Coeducational gFoups should represent a fair number o.f s tudems from each class. The experience is also meant to foster faculty/ student : interaction in order to add a · new dimension to living on campus, as well to extend . ·learning expriences from the classroom to everyday life. The · new experiences. enjoyment, and education gained, in · addition to those experiences in · ·normal everyday residence hall living, will improve your stay at '{Jnion and your outlook on the future .. Please take some · tim¢ and think about this over l>reak. It is a great chance for a · group of students to live · together and leave a lasting . · impression upon Union , College. More complete details · will be available at the Office of Residence Life, 405CC, at · the beginning of Spring term. Stricter Pe,nalties Sho·uld ' Curb Shoplifting At 9:00AM and to end by 3:50 in still out on the future of· : the afternoon. It also includes · · Gelpme at Union. The Geltime .six various class schedules . . Committee has reported their which can be incorporated into findings to the AAC and for the class system if necessary, now, the campus will wait for an!l accounts .fOr' Minerva Hour · · the final verdict. Campus Bookstore INCIDENTS 02/27. Mon .• 8:06 AM, North. Lane, Property Damage AutomQbile accident. 02/27, Mon., 11:57 AM, North College Lot, Suspicious person .. 02/28, Tue., 10: 11 AM Nott Memorial Basement, Panic Alarm unfounded. 02/28, Tue ..• 1:05 PM, Fox/Davidson Lot, Student reports theft of radar deiectodrom vehicle. · . ' 00/28. Tues., U:30·PM,.Fox House, Reportoffight 03/01, We&, 4:54PM. West College, Student reports that person(s) unknown entered room and left threatening note no items reported mssing. 03/02.-Thu... 1.2:01 AM, Potter, Report of suspicious person · ·. 03/02~ Thu., 8:10AM, Security Office, Referral by Albany Police Dei>artment 03/02. Thu., &:44 AM, Campus, Two undesirables observed crossing campus - escorted off campus. 03/03, Fri., 12:01 AM, Potter, Report of suspicious person. 03/03, Fri., 1:54 AM, fox House, Student involved in small ftre in dorm room. Conduct Charges filed. ()-3/03,Fri:, 3:40PM, Humanities, Vandalism -wheels removed from chair in CHtJC Room. 03/04, Sat.. 3:20 AM, Richmond Lot, Student vehicle observed with rear doors open and interior lights on. No forced entry noted. Owner advised. · . 03/04. Sat., 3:22AM .• ·Delta Chi (outside), Small fire ~. observed/extinguished. Student conduct charges ft1ed. . 03/04, Sat., 3:22AM, Delta Chi, Vandalism .. exterior door ~ panel removed. 03/04, Sat., 5:06 AM, College Center, Report of person(s) using elevator. Unfounded. 03101. Wed .• Unk., West College, Student harassing student with telephoned threats. , , 03102, Thu.; 11:00 PM, Off Campus res .• Student assaulted student 1 03104, Fri., 12:01 AMt Tennis Courts, Recovered College property removed from all night study. Continued from page 1 If caught under the new . policy, a student may find · . himself with a one year maximum sentence in the county jail or a maximum fine of $1000, or both, In addition, the student will still ha¥e to face the- Dean, who this time, may not be as lenient now that the student has a criminal record. When paught, campus security will be summoned to the bookstore at which point they wjll either: take the , . student back to the security office to wait for the Schenectady police to come perform the arrest by · handcuffing the stud~nt and taking him away, or, the security officer will wait with the student right at the . bookstore and ask the p()lice to perform the arrest on the SJX>t. Ernest Conti, Director of Administrative Services~ states . that although they _go not want . to institute such a stringent policy, he feels that it is still necessary. Conti continiJed by stating that since the bookstore · direct cost to the bQokstore also. Thus, when the policy becomes implemented, the bookstore will try to enforce . ; tbe change only through closer . ()bservation before they spend tile money on further · equipment. is not affiliated directly with . the College~ any losses from · shoplifting must . be made up . for with higher prices, whicb in turn hurts the honest students. Both Conti and Majlaton stated their hopes that they will not have to enforce the policy very often. They both hope The bookstore will begin posting signs today warning students of the new changes and allowing them to be prepared for when tile new policy takes effect. There are plans in the works for the ·installation of mirrors and perhaps. two video cameras, but items such as these are of ' tbat when .students realize the stiff penalties that stealing a pack of gum or a sweatshirt will yield, they ·will change their mind and their course of -action. Majlaton and Conti both hope that other students who observe a .possible shoplifter will report it immediately and that through tllis policy, the bookstore will deter its shoplifters and gain more customers. lt.ESIDENT ADVISOR SELECTION PROCESS 1989-90 Informational meetings will be peld du~ing.thefirst ~o wee~ of.Sprin~ 'rerm Look for posters announcmg specific mformatr.()n. Applzcatzons wtll b~ av~ilable at The Office of Residence Life and Area Coordinator's Offices.

. Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS March ~·. 1'989 . '· .. Collegiate Tffiles Universities Replace Old History With A Fresh Approach History isn't what it used to be. The \old history\ in which I was trained sought to connect a narrative sequence of events over a significant span of time. It focused primarily on great events and historical figures, on regimes and adminis- trations, politics and diplomacy, constitutions and laws, revolutions aha wars. In. many universities, this has now been replaced by a \new history\ which borrows techniques from ·other social- · science disciplines to study groups and subjects supposedly neglected by the \old history\. Insofar as such efforts help us to understand the past as it really was, they are to be welcomed. Yet the varieties of new history have proliferated so quickly that the very term \new history\ has become problematic, and history itself, our sense of the past, has become fragmentary and elusive. Take, for example, social history, an approach which argues that the true reality can best he found in the small, intimate details of \everyday life.\ I once heard a .histofian describe his \in-depth analysis' of the life of a New England town in the late-eighteenth century. With colleagues doing comparable studies of other towns, he hoped to produce a \total history\ of that place and time. In the democratic e!:hos of the new history, no .subject or theme wants to take second place to any other. But there is, after all, ohly one first place, and some historical events and figures have to be judged more important than others. If this fragmentaton of history were not enough, we · now have to wowy about the \deconstruction:\ of history. ' Just as deconstruotionism in 'literary criticism denies to the author of a text any auth.ority over its interpretation or meaning, so some historians deprive the past of its meaning and rea'lity. Using words like \invent\, \imagine\, \construct\, and \decode\ to describe their work, they leach their younger colleagues not to become mere \fact fetishists.\ It is one thing to write women!S history, another to write feminist history. The assumption that race,. gender, and class-- to use concepts in vogue-- are. FRESHMAN IN AIJII DEPARTMENTS The Van Orden Writing Prize is for you. Find out more in the English Department Deadline Mareh 19, 1989 have always beent the basic determinants of history deconstructs the past not only as historians have known it, but, in many cases, as contemporaries lived it. \' Working historians have traditionally assumed some corre.sponoence between interpretation and fact, between language and reality. Painfully aware of a past that always eludes them~ they have also been _cognizant of the need to close the gap as much as possible. The. new history stands outside received opinion and is prepared to pronounce it simply false. The· old history stands within recieved opinion, . trying to understand it as contem-pora:cies di(l, to find out why they believed what they did, why those b~liefs seemed' to Qtem \credibl~\, a \faithfu'l interpretation of their ex~riences.\ The new hlstory may :have mnch to teach the old, but this is one important lesson the old may teach the new. (Thfs C!.ilumn is excerpted from a .paper presented at the annual meeting .of the American Historical As.s<•cia.tion:.) (c) 1989 by the .. Collegiate Network. Sigma Phi Boo~salel!! At the beginning· of next term. we will be selling hundreds of te;xtbo.oks for the upcoming, spring classes .. and if you. would like to add any textbooks of your own to our stock (you set the .price you want) then bring them to Sigma Phi immediately following your exams at the end of thiS\ term (or during the sale at the beginning of next term). This ·will provide students with a convenient m:ethod of reselling ·used books and getting the bookstore .. cash for · books\ where yQu receive as little as a quarter of you! original cost~ · A small percentage of all sales Will go to the United Way as charity. SCHAFFER LIBRARY-EXT·ENDED HOURS. Sunday, March 5- Thursday, March 16 · The Library will be open from t t pm. to 1 am f.or studying only. - No circulating or. reserve materials will be. char.ged out . No reference desk services. :Please help us keep food ~nd drink restricted to the All Night Study area. Thank you. Write for· ·NE'.W·S Call · · · Elise x4410 or J~y x4153 FINAL APPLICATION DEADLINE: 10 APRIL 1989. . . - - . - - . , G .EI·.;· ... YO• .· ·····U·R i I ; I I . PLEASE WRITE OR CALL FOR INFORMATJON AND APPLICATION · Accredited by WILLIAMS COLLEGE Taught at MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM AMERICAN MARITIME STUDIES 0 Ecology 0 Ecohomics 0 Biology 0 History 0 Literature 0 American Studies 0 Public Policy 0 Oceanography 0 Off-Shore Research - 1'hQ W:illi3msd\ily$tic ProgJam offers you a chal- lenging opportunity to focus one semester of your studies on our relationship with the sea. While living in cooperative houSes at Mystic SeapoFt Museum, you take four Williams College courses in histOry, literature, oceanography or ! · marine ecology, and marine .policy. You can also develop new maritime skills, such as boat build- jug, sailing, or celestial navigation, aild spend . two weeks offshore on a marine vessel. The in· comparable facilities of the Museum, Mystic's varied marine habitat, and the companionship,of fellow students interested in the sea provide an exceptional setting for maritime studies. WILLIAMS-MYSTIC PROGRAM • MYSTIC SEAPORT MUSEUM, INC. • MYS!IC,CONNECTIC,lJT 06355 • (203). 572-0711 Ext. 359 . . ~ .~ . . . . CON CO AN'D GRASP .'.r ·:;t:-..:.~£.7.: ~-· 0 HE C~MPUS

• C()NCORDI&NSIS Mt~rch 9, J989 . . . TOYOTA PARTS AND SERVICE CHECK OUR ' .· ·:· . ' . SPECIALS! A QUALITY SJ::RVICE OIL CHANGE WITH FI~ • lnc\ttc;les up to 5 qu~rtS of oil and .gem,dne Toyota ·double-filteiing oil.filter. ·• · · · • C6mplete under-the~ hood clieck of all belt$, hoses andfluid levels, · $19.95··.'' TOYOTA QUALITY SERVlCE FRONT END ALIGNMENT • S~t caster: toe and .camber on applicable vehicles. ;; · • Inspect steering. shocks and • ~~~~~~~eerlni Y~h.ee~. .. . . $ 2 9 • 9 5 I------- f;XP,{fAR 3·31•89 TOYOTA QUALITY WHO COULD ASK FOR ANYTHING MORE! - .... -- .... - ......... ___ -- 1 0 °/c, I . Student Discount with Coupon I I :L ·- - - - - .... -.. - ·- - - - .a . . . . THERE'S NOTHING LIKE THE REAL THING FROM .•. JJ-RTriiRVED '!.. CLASS RINGS LEGEND leads the way to a new level of style ... strong, distinctive; elegant. LEGEND, with handsome new school identification. features, · andam\ultj.tude ofother customizing options, is also · . th~ first ring to ()!fer a . th()ke o{two-~i~e desigi)s. ·. For the ultimate memento ofyourtolltJge experience, .choose LEGEND. Exclusively from ArtCarv~d, thestyle leaders. The Quality. The Crqfl.smanship. Th-e RewardYou1Jeserve. 3/8-3/10 9:00-4:00 College Center Atrium © 1988 ArtCarved CliiSS RhiMS. DepoSi!Required = Z Page 5

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 \l . CONTACT YOUR I •.. 'LOCAL REO I . CROSS CHAPTER!. : : Albany Area Chapter, Hackett Blvd., Albany,. 462-7461 Rensselaer Gty. Chapter, 737 Third Avenue, Troy, 235-4450 Saratoga Cty .. Chapter, 368 Broadway, Saratoga Springs, 584-251·0 Schenectady Cty. Chapter, . 8 So. Church St., Schenectady, 393-3606· + . American Red Cross . . . . ~phlstlca~~Otl WithOUt pr~tePslOil .. , . Fine loqging and ~quisite. dtiu:ng in; the Ii11dst of . the AdQ:\ondac~. Gore Mt •. Mid.we\k Ski ~taway Only $68./persan ineluding: lodging, 5-course d,inrJ:er, full breakf<\St (Sun.-Thurs.) and ... lift ticJ.<.et!· MIKE'S MERCEDES '· SERVICE, INC. MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 · 24 HR .. TOWING- 374-1067 349 Anthony Street · Schenectady,NY . . .·~ •WANTED• ~- 1 ~ .... ~ \JI The 1988 Sigma Delta Tau Com,posite Let's get it .back! No questions asked. -- 1988-89 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring term classes will begin on Monday, March 27th. Student schedules will be distributed to student mailboxes located in tile: College Center prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy however, to notify your instructors if you are late returning to classes. In addition to formal registration, schedule ·changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be· done at the Fieldhouse on Monday, March 27th and -on Tuesday, March 28th UNTIL 3:00P.M., and thereafter, beginning on Wednesday, March 29th, at the Registrar's Office located in Whitaker House. The last day tQ · declare a course.;PASS-FAIL\ is FRIDAY, MARCH 31ST. The last day for niak:fng schedule changes (adds, drops, section changes, etc.) without \special permission'', provided the course is still open, is FRIDAY. APRIL 7TH. Any course dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the student's transcrip~. (It is strongly recommended that you speak with the instructor o(any - of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Fieldhouse on the first day of classes. Formal registration will take place in th~ Fieldhouse on Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28the Students are reminded that completi ()ll of the formal registration procedure consists of the following steps: 1) Fie king up their registration packet 2) Pilling it oat and making any necessary C()rrections to the data 3) Dropping it in the designated boxes course that you add if you've missed the first week of This pr()cess is required of EVERY STUDENT EA.CI-l: , classes.) . . . . . . . . ; . · . , . TERM 'THEY A~E IN A'XTENDANCE . AT UNION A representative of the Business Office will be available . COLLEGE, regardless or whether or not they finalized at the Fieldhouse on Monday and ·Tuesday, March ·21th·~ their. schedule or havl() ;paid. for .the. term. Failure to . ·and 28th, to handle late payment of term bills and ~o help complete: your registra1ion packet may jeopardize \-resolve any billing problems. After Tuesday, they will be financial aid awards :a:n<i academic credit. Registration back in their office located on the first floor of the packets turned in after Friday, March 31st, will be Administration Building. · considered LATE and a fine of $25 will be assessed - NO EXCEPTrONS! Ifyou.a11ticipate returning to school late, please notify the Regi~trar's Office itnmed,iateJ:y! Provided there is a legitin1ate reason~ we can then give you an extension to band in your registration packet without being penalized. It is your responsibility, I PLEASE NOTE: REGISTRATION WILL CEASE AT 3:00 P.M. ON 1UESDA Y, MARCH. 28th. IT WILL RESUME ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29TH AT tHE REGISTRAR.'S OFFICE LOCATED lN WHITAKER HOUSE. \ i·

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 CONTACTYO,UR I· LOCAL RED . . sophistication without ~retension . . . i CROSS CHAPTER' Fi.n.e lodging and exquisite dining in the midst of the Adirondacks. Gore Mt. Midweek Ski Getaway Albany Area Chapter, Hackett Blvd., Albany, 462-7461 Rensse~laer Cty. Chapter, 737 Th:ird Avenue, Troy, 235-4450 Saratoga Cty. Chapter, 368 Broadway, Saratoga Springs, 584-2510 Schenectady Cty. Chapter, 8 So. Church St., Schenectady, 393-3606 Only $68./person including: lodging, 5-course dinner, full breakfast (Sun.-Thurs.) and ... lift ticket! MIKE'S MERCEDES SERVICE, INC. MICHAEL W. CYDYLO (518) 377-2268 24HR. TOWING-374-1067 349 Anthony Street Schenectady,NY American Red Cross •WANTED• The 1988 Sigma Delta Tau Composite Let's get it back! No questions asked. 1988-89 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Spring term classes will begin on Monday, March 27th. Student schedules will be distributed to student mailboxes located in the College Center prior to the beginning of classes. Students who do not receive a copy . of their class schedule will be able to secure a copy at the Fieldhouse on the first day of classes. Fonnal registration will take place in the Fieldhouse on Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28th. Students are reminded that completion of the formal registration procedure consists of the following steps: 1) Picking up their registration packet 2) Filling it out and making any necessary corrections to the data 3) Dropping it in the designated boxes This process is required of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM THEY ARE IN ATTENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE, regardless or whether or not they finalized their schedule or have paid for the term. Failure to complete your registration packet may jeopardize financial aid awards and academic credit. Registration packets turned in after Friday, March 31st, will be considered LATE and a fine of $25 will be assessed- NO EXCEPTIONS! If you anticipate returning to school late, please notify the Registrar's Office immediately! Provided there is a legitimate reason, we can then give you an extension to hand in your registration packet without being penalized. It is your responsibility~ however, to notify your instructors if you are late returning to classes. In addition to fonnal registration, schedule changes (the adding and/or dropping of courses) may be done at the Fieldhouse on Monday, March 27th and on Tuesday, March 28th UNTIL 3:00P.M., and thereafter, beginning on Wednesday, March 29th, at the Registrar's Office located in Whitaker House. The last day to declare a course.\PASS-FAIL\ is FRIDAY, MARCH 31ST. The last day for making schedule changes (adds, drops, section changes, etc.) without \special permission\ provided the course is still open, is FRIDAY, APRIL 7TH. Any course dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the student's transcript. (It is strongly recommended that you speak with the instructor of any course that you add if you've missed the first week of classes.) A representative of the Business Office will be available at the Fieldhouse on Monday and Tuesday, March 27th and 28th, to handle late payment of term bills and to help resolve any billing problems. After Tuesday~ they will be back in their office located on the first floor of the Administration Building. PLEASE NOTE: REGISTRATION WILL CEASE AT 3.:00 P.M. ON TUESDAY, MARCH. 28th. IT WILL RESUME ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29TH AT THE REGISTRAR'S OFFICE LOCATED IN WHITAKER HOUSE.

Stressful By . SUSAN S:HAFFER Featur~s Editor College is a strssful dine in which many dependencies are .formed. . Music; most cannot fall asleep without it. The mind races, thoughts fly into one· . another. Collision after collision, one canm>t reht~. Listen to the music. The mind T.hink carefully • . Is there something that you .,011ld not :live witbout? slows down, focusing on the road. Television: Outside pressures can cause anxiety or pain. Look at the screen. See funny man. See funny woman. Hear fake audience laugh. Laugh. Laugh. See reallif~ situation, Feel concern for t.v. characters. . Forget about own problems. Books: Get invol~d with the plot. Thrive on the created lifestyles. Lose yourself in the emotion. Solve the problems of the wotld. Become the problem of the world. Travel around the world, the galaxy, tlie arts .•. aah. aah. Acting: People enjoy getting up and doing ,things they nonnally would not do. By taking on a role thev are CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 FEATURE ARTICLES Situations Send Students Something SoOthing \ actually \getting outside themselves.\ Analyzing: Through analyzi11g others .apd events, people can remove themselves from their own immediacy and free themselves from .direct affectations. Think carefuH y. .. Is there something that you could not live wiJ:hout? Our dependencies are initiated by several fates :but Qne ()f the most commmon is stress. Newsweek recently ran a cover story on addictive pers(}nalities. Many of us do have addictiVe personalities, but while we may he dependent upon several! things Newsweek says ~hat we are not necessarily .physically addicted to them. Television, Music, Books, Cats, Sex, Friends, Q~Tips, Dental Floss, Cover llP· Daydreaming, Analyzing, Acting. Tlle.se disruptive dependencies are not considered to be physical addictions. Caffeine, Choc(}late. Alcohol, Marijuana. Nicotine, Cocaine, Dependencies on these substances are, however,. Stick one in your ear, · move it around and feel the se.nsations throughout y~ur entire body • physical addictions. Tenth week ... We will all observe some bizarre and exaggerated behavior this week. It is a mode to release stress·. Our dependencies, formed in order to deal with everyday pressures, tend to blow out of proportion during any tension overload. Witness the chain smokers around. One cigarette, two cigarettes, wait, you didn't even finish the last one! Puff, puff, puff, study, puff, puff, puff, puff, study. For those dependent upon those double-sided soft, funny, feelies, Q- Tips, keep a box on your desk so that you do not have to get · up every 2.4 minutes to go into the bathroom. Stick one in your ear, move it around and feel the sensations throughout your entire body. Don't be sur,prised to see chain Q· Tip users, either. The chocoholics are always evident. Those who normally need a fix of one bag of M&Ms will be seen with an arm'ful of 13 or 14. M&Ms are always the students' chocolate by choice, for we all know that m&m's \melt in your mouth and not in your hands.\ So, instead of chocolate smudges in their notebooks, the chocoholics will have pretty colored smudges. Exercise fanatics will be seen lifting unbelievable amounts of weights, playing incredrble games of raquetball and riding remarkable distances on the exercycles. Survival seems sound - si.:kly sarcastic? Drug abusers and alcoholics will be scowering for intense satisfaction upon completing exams. One week without their ;· ·, .. it sends people scurr'ying every which way, especially over spring break. Twenty-four hours a day. Twenty-four hours a day. H()w long can one watch television? Withdrawal is serious, upon leaving campus one is lured to the screen. Stressful situations send stu.dents seeking soq~ething soothing, survival seems sound-sickly sarcastic? Page 7 Seeking ;)£ w. ~ .w z . u.. 0 ?n ·w '1- a: a u 0 0 ::r: a. A Senior's Surrender JJy MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor A slow moving ro.ar. slid underneath followed by the shocking, sharp rip of ice under our feet. Instantly, a whirl of dusty snow raps around and aronnd, twisting the arms counterclockwise. The face cril}ges in' pain as the wind- driven cold constricts the body \and cracks the skin. You are the goalie, but you've got no skates. You are now in·the clear. At the fat end of the cold is a ma.Tl with a long stick and a flat, . bard disc. With this stick he can whip the disc at high speed, with little sacrifice for accuracy. If the man is good \the disc will hover ten inches above the ground. This is just over the top of the tongue of the skate; but you have none, so knee cap height is a most accurnte estimate. A;nd if that were not' bad enough, attached to the man's feet ate a pair of razor sharp, foot lo11g blades that glisten off the ice and the sun. They are fast feet, and rather fleet. They ltave the disc and they're moving our way. So, from off in the snow dusted distance rides a horse whose name is... HI hooo Silver. Op, I mean number seven. The disc now darts hack and· forth, the fleet, feet follow near and the stick nearer still. Your vision clears. Now you can focus on the wake 0f dusty snow that follows the man. You can see him clearly; his intentions you understand; his fury you wish to avoid. So settle in, it should prove to be what you fear most. You lower your stance. The back creaks in resis~ce, your eyes dart down at the flat, blue ice with the deep crack and the A _NOte from the Yearbook ·Senior$ return your proofs to your studio. Terms Abroad pictures are needed from this years travel. Candids are needed from all classes and events all pictures can be returned by placing name and address · • . on back of photo. · _ · · Tl}e Galleais a new ~ection of the yearbook. It will· ·be a collection of the student's artwork. Photographs .must be final prints and at least 5x7 inches. Paintings,· • drEtwings,. and sculpt~~s can. be pho_tographed by The , .·Garnet staff by wr1t1ng to The Garnet, Student • Activities Office, College Center. · Thank you for your cooperation, The Garnet shattered contacts. The head bounces up, the man is much closer now; too close. \Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace to the last syllable of recorded time. And all our yesterdays have lighted fools; the way to dusty death. OqJ! Out! brief candle ... Life is but a wandering shadow, a poor player who struts and frets his hours on the stage until he is heard no more. It is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.\ I'm positive that Macbeth was compelled by your situation, and Shakespeare, well he just wrote about it. So in the similar manner that Macbeth took the sword into the heart, you take the puck into the knee. In writhing pain you spin toward the ice. The hip slams dow'1 first, whipping the head, cracking it against the cold. The teeth grind through the tongue. You taste the bits of ground enamel and blood. The man glides by and the puck dribbles between your legs. Yes ... the game is over. And you as the player are tired. Walk 3VJ.ay poor. Walk away angry and hurt. Walk away! wi 11 close on MARCH 10 at 4:30 See you 1n the spr1ng

Stressful By SUSAN SHAFFER Features Editor College is a strssful time in which many dependencies are formed. Music; most cannot fall asleep without 1t. The mind races, thoughts fly into one aAother. Collision after collision, one cannot relax. Listen to the music. The mind Think carefuHy ... Is there something tha.t you could not l'~ve without? slows down, focusing on the road. Television: Outside pressures can cause anxiety or pain. Look at the screen. See funny man. See funny woman. Hear fake audience laugh. Laugh. Laugh. See real life situation. Feel concern for t.v. characters. Forget about own problems. Books: Get involved with the plot. Thrive on the created lifestyles. Lose yourself in the emotion. Solve the problems of the world. Become the problem of the world. Travel around the world, the galaxy, the arts .•. aah, aah. Acting: People enjoy getting up and doing things they normally would not do. By taking on a role thev are CONCORDIENSIS Mt1rr~h 9, 1989 FEATURE ARTICLES Situations Send Students Something Soothing actually \gettiRg outside themselves.\ Analyzing: Through analyzing others and events, people can remove themselves from their own immediacy and free themselves from. direct affectations. Think carefully ... Is there something that you could not live without? Our dependencies are initiated by several fates but one of tile most commmon is stress. Newsweek recently ran a cover story on addictive personalities. Many of us do have addictive personalities, but while we may be dependent upon several things Newsweek says that we are not necessarily physically addicted to them. Television, Masic, Books, Cats, Sex, Friends, Q- Tips, Dental Floss, Cover up. Daydreaming, Analyzing, Acting. These disruptive dependencies are not considered to be physical addictions. Caffeine, Chocolate. Alcohol, Marijuana. Nicotine, Cocaine, DependeAcies o.n these substances are, however, Stick one in yoo11r ear, move i·t a·round and feel the sensations throughout your en tire body. physical addictions. Tenth week... We will all observe som.e bizarre and exaggerated behavi()r this week. It is a mode to release stress. Our dependencies, formed in order to deal with every day pressures, tend to b\()...v out of proportion during amy tension overload. Witness the chaill smokers around. One cigar-ette, two cigarettes, wait, yo11di<ln't even finish the last one! Puff, puff, puff, stady, puff, pllff, puff, puff, study. For those depemden t upon those double-side<! S()ft, funny, feelies, Q- Tips, keep <1 box on your desk so that you do not have to get up every 2.4 minutes to go into the bathroom. Stick Dllte in your ear, move it around ~od feel the sensations througb()at your entire body. uon't lle surprised to see chain Q- riiJ users, either. The chocoholics :are always evident. Those who normally need a fix of one bag of M&M s wiH be seen with an annful of 13 or 14. M&Ms are always the students' chocolate by choice, for we all know that m&m's \melt in your mouth and not in your hands.\ So, instead of chocolate smudges in their notebooks, the chocoholics will have pretty colored smudges. Exercise fanatics will be seen liftillg unbelievable amounts of weights, playing incredible games of raquctball and riding remarkable distances on the cxercyclcs. Survival seems sound - siddy sarcastic? Drug abusers and alcoholics will be scowering for intense satisfaction upon completing exams. One week without their ;· · .. it sends people scurrying every which way, especially over spring break. Twenty-four hours a day. Twenty-four hours a day. How long can one watch television? Withdrawal is serious, upon leaving campus one is lured to the screen. Stressful situations send students seeking something soothing, survival seems sound-sickly sarcastic? Page 7 Seeking ~ U.J U.J :!: ~ U.J z ~ fii U.J 1- c: 5 () 0 0 ::t: a. A Senior's Surrender By MARK HAUGHTON Features Editor A slow moving roar slid underneath followed by the shocking, sharp rip of ice under our feet. Instantly, a whirl of dusty snow raps around and around, twisting the arms counterclockwise. The face cringes in· pain as the wind- driven cold constricts the body and cracks the skin. You are the goalie, but you've got no skates. You are now in·the clear. At the far end of the cold is a man with a long stick and a flat, hard disc. With this stick he can whip the disc at high speed, with little sacrifice for accuracy. If the man is good the disc will hover ten inches above the ground. This is just over the top of the tongue of the skate; but you have none, so knee cap height is a most accurate estimate. And if that were not bad enough, attached to the man's feet are a pair of razor sharp, foot long blades that glisten off the ice and the sun. They are fast feet, and rather fleet. They have the disc and they're moving our way. So, from off ill the snow dusted distance ride:s a horse whose name is .. _ HI hooo Silver. Op, I mean !lumber seven. The disc now darts back and forth, the fleet, feet follow near and the stick ncearer still. Your vision cleru:s. Now you can focus on the wak:e of dusty snow that follo\Vs tllc man. You can see him dearly; his intentions you mtders tand; his fury you wish to avo·id. So settle in, it should prove to be what you fear most. You lower your stance:. T'lte back creaks in resistance, your eyes dart down at the tla t, blue ice with the deep cr<~clc and the A Note from the Yearbook SeniorS return your proofs to your studio. Terms Abroad pictures are needed from this years travel. Candids are needed from all classes and events all pictures can be returned by placing name and address on back of photo. The Gallery is a new section of the yearbook. It will be a collection of the student's artwork. Photographs must be final prints and at least 5x7 inches. Paintings, drawings, and sculptures can be photographed by The Garnet staff by writing to The Garnet, Student Activities Office, College Center. Thank you for your cooperation, The Garnet shattered contacts. The head bounces up, the man is much closer now; too close. 'Tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace to the last syllable of recorded time. And all our yesterdays have lighted fools; the way to dusty death. Out! Out! brief candle ... Life is but a wandering shadow, a poor player who struts and frets his hours on the stage until he is heard no more. It is a talc told by an idiot full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.\ I'm positive that Macbeth was compelled by your situation, and S hakespcare, well he just wrote about it. So in the similar manner that Macbeth took the sword into the heart, you take the puck into the knee. In writhing pain you spin toward the icc. The hip slams dow\'l first, whipping the head, cracking it against the cold. The teeth grind through the tongue. You taste the bits of ground enamel and blood. The man glides by and the puck dribbles between your legs. Yes ... the game is over. And you as the player are tired. Walk away poor. Walk away angry and hurt. Walk away! \vi 11 close on MARCH 10 at 4:30 See you in t~1e spr1ng

CONCORDIENSIS Mllrch 9, 1989 OJnnrnrbtrn.sis Founded ot lfnion Collef[e 1877 ·------- About The Fine ·Print The Restore the Nott <Committee's recent efforts to bn.ng altention to the condition of Union's symbolic landmark · should be examined before one offers them praise. While Keith Bemis' vocal endeavors have added a h~althy dimension to the college debate over, the Nott Memorial, some of the points he and his committee have stressed to the carrtpus community should be questioned. Bemis and the RNC have openly criticized the Administration for failing to ~pply for federal (via state) funding for the restoration of the Nott. Undoubtedly, the notion that any governing body would pass up an opportunity to receive monetary aid for a project seems, at the least, absurd. Repeatedly, in interview after interview, Bemis has posed the question, why has Union not taken advantage of • these accessible funds? RNC would like you to come up with ! the obvious conclusions: the Administration's lack of interest, · their passive attitude. other administrative priorities ... the list • · can go on. But the problem with tb.is rationale is that the reason why . Union has not applied for funding is per:haps_not so obvious. Vice President of College Resources Jack Maranville .· · pointed out that the funds offered from the New York State • government are not without stipulations. An acceptance .of · .. such funds from the government would Urnit the freedom that the College could exercise when making decisions about the : Nott's restoration and possibly its use. E~en Maranville was : · stated as saying that he cannot fully find out what these ' restrictions would entail In this situation, the College has · opted not to apply for go~emment funding. Furthermore, if the College did decide to apply fot such aid, · · chances that they would see that money before completion of ' the Nott's restoration/rcnovationn are very small. (Chances that Union's application would even make it onto the priority waiting list before the Nott's completion are small.) In fact, the amount of money that the College would receive would cover only a fraction of the entire cost ()[such an operation. Maranville rationalized that the amount available to the College, if approved; would not be wortll. the interest that the College would have to forfeit to a government agency concerning major decisions in the Nott's restoration. Concordiensis is in favor of the Nott's well-awaited restoration. However, we would like to make RNC aware of Maranville's reasoning behind administrative actions and advise them to read the fine print and d.edde for themselves. Concerning the Admini-stration , we strongly encouage it to start looking for alternative sources of fund-raising now--so planning and implementation of a Nott initiative can begi11, tomorrow. The Only Cure For Writer's. Block Is Writing Almost as if an omen, the paper for the line printer just ran out. Our year of editing the newspaper really is over. All that stands between my co-editgt's and Ill)' final moments of . 'editor-in-chiefdom' is our editorials. This is no time to fall prey to that all too familiar writer's block. So, pardon me while I plow _through this chummy tone I have a~parently adopted in attempt to share with the campus what IS on my mind this last night as editor. The newspaper has been a fantastic experien~e, one that I recommend to all students. O.K., mayhe notstaymg up every . Tuesday night until 3:00 in the morning.putting it all together, · but at least writing once in a wltile. R~porting for Concordiensis is not only good writing experience and exposure to journalism~ it provides yo-u with a way to get to know your school better. By contributing to the paper you learn more about the college's history, policies, and plans; you meet people you otherwise wou~dn't have, and. you. gain .a · better understanding of campus tssues. At the very least 1t looks nice on a resun1e, · How often have my co-editor and I !)een approached with ·• the question \Why don't you do an article on ... \ _There are only so many editors on the paper, all of whom sacnfice much of their time to making sure the paper comes out week after . week. They are regular writers; yet writing every week is really above and beyond the call of duty. If you have ever wondered why the paper has not printed an article you would have liked to .have seen written, I'll give you an answer-- . because you never wrote it. You must be at least marginally interested in the paper as · · you are reading the editorial column (a rare virtue), so why not consider writing sometime? Congratulations to R. Reed Whidden and Susan D. Shaffer Newly Elected • • / ·nmr .· trnsrn EditOrS-in-Chief from, <1!1'·· The Staff, Board and former E.ditors. . . . This is the last issue of the term. Good Luck on final exams ALLLETIERSTO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEP'IED. LETTERS TO ·THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION. , OF THE EDITORIAL BOARD

CONCORD!ENSIS March 9, 1989 <llllltfllrbirnsis - Founded at Union College 1877---- About The Fine Print The Restore the Nott Committee's recent efforts to bring attention lo the condition of Union's symbolic landmark should be ex:amincd before one offers them praise. While Keith Bemis' vocal endeavors have added a hcahhy dimension to the college debate over the Nott Memorial, some of the points he and his committee have stressed to the campus community should be questioned. Bemis and the RNC havr. openly criticized the Administration for failing to apply for federal (via state) funding for the restoration of the Nott. Undoubtedly, the notion that any governing body would pass up an opportunity to receive monetary aid for a project seems, at the least, absurd. Repeatedly, in interview after interview, Bemis has posed the question, why has Union not taken advantage of these accessible funds? RNC would like you to come up with . the obvi<Jus conclusions: the Administration's lack of interest, their passive attitude, other administrative priorities ... the list can go on. But the problem with this rationale is that the reason why Union has not applied for funding is perhaps not so obvious. Vice President of College Resources Jack Maranville pointed out that the funds offered from the New York State government arc not without stipulations. An acceptance of such funds from the government would limit the freedom that the College could ex:crcise when making decisions about the Nott's restoration and possibly its usc. Even Maranville was stated as saying that he cannot fully find out what these restrictions would entail. In this situation, the College has opted not to apply for government funding. Furthcnnore, if the College did decide to apply for such aid, chances that they would see that money before completion of the Nou's restoration/renovationn arc very small (Chances that UNion's application would even make it onto the priority waiting list before the Nott's completion arc small.) In fact. the amount of money that the College would receive would cover oNly a fraction of the entire cost of such an operation. Maranville rationalized that the amount available to the College, if approved, would not be worth the interest that the College would have to forfeit to a government agency concerning major decisions in the Nott's restoration. Concordiensis is in favor of the Nott's well-awaited restoration. However, we would like to make RNC aware of Maranville's reasoning behind administrative actions and advise them to read the fine print and decide for themselves. Concerning the Administration , we strongly encouage it to start looking for alternative sources of fund-raising now--so planning and implementation of a Nott initiative can begiTI, tomorrow. The Only Cure For Writer's Block Is Writing Almost as if an omen, the paper for the line printer just ran out. Our year of cdi ting the newspaper really is over. All that stands between my co-editor's and my final moments of 'editor-in-chiefdom' is our editorials. This is no time to fall prey to that all too familiar writer's block. So. pardon me while I plow through this chummy tone I have apparently adopted in attempt to share with the campus what is on my mind tllis last night as editor. The newspaper has been a fantastic ex:perience, one that I recommend to all students. O.K., maybe not staying up every Tuesday night until 3:00 in the morning putting it all together, but at least writing once in a while. Reporting for Concurdiensis is not only good writing experience and exposure to journalism, it provides you with a way to get to know your school better. By contributing to the paper you learn more about the college's history, policies, and plans; you meet people you otherwise wouldn't have, and you gain a • better understanding of campus issues. At the very least it looks nice on a resume. How often have my co-editor and I been approached with the question \Why don't you do an article on ... \ _There are only S() many editors on the paper, all of whom sacnfice much .. of their time to making sure the paper c~~es out week aft~r · I week. They are regular writers; yet wntmg every week IS · really above and beyond the call of duty. If you have ever. wondered why the paper has not printed an article you would · have liked to have seen written, I'll give you an answer-- • becau5e you never wrote it. , You must be at least marginally interested in the paper as • you arc reading the editorial colwnn (a rare virtue), so why not consider writing sometime? Congratulations to R. Reed Whidden and Susan D. Shaffer Newly Elected Editors-in-Chief from, The Staff, Board and former Editors. This is the last issue of the term. Good Luck on final exams ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR :MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.IVL ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR DO NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE OPINION Of THE EDITORIAL BOARD

CONCORDIENSIS , March 9, 1989 Page 9 ·SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY · A-m>erica: Home of· the Free was no suitable site at the appropriate distance upstream. Their solution was to put a dam at a particular spot where the water could be store4 in a lake formed by a minor tributary. The Corps said that the lake that would be formed could be used for recreation and as a water supply for the surroundin.g towns. Construction of the dam began in 1967. By KEVIN GARDNER Science & Technology Editor It is generally agreed upon that the benefits of ~ project · should outweigh the harms that the project may cause; both to humans and their property, and to the ci_:uaHty of the environment Politics, and in some cases a lack of morals, can have drastic effects on -engineering projects, which inevitabty have the same drastic effects on humans and their ~nvirons. A project undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1967 illustrates the effects politics may have in decision-making, a.nd the reSUltant cost to humans and the environment. The Haw River has, in the past, caused serious flooding in Fayetteville, N.C. The Army Corps of Engin.eers was called upon to come ·up with some design to control flooding. The typical solution of building a dam to catch the floodwa~ers could not be used because there PrOblem ·-of the Week Following construction ,came a flood of controversy. A hydrologist from N.C. State found that the Corps had estimated much larger flood volumes and. much. greater damage than actually would ever have occured. The Corps was then asked to publish an environmental · impact statement (e.i.s.). An e.i.s. is actually supposed to preceed a project so that the wisdom .of a project can be evaluated. It is a powerful tool, in conjunction with the court, used to halt potentially dangerous projects. This, however, was not the case with the Corps. Suppose a and b are positive integers and suppose ab + 1 divides a 2 + .b 2 with no remainder. Show that the quotient (a2 + b2)/(ab + 1) is the square of an iilt!'!ger. Opposition to the project continued. N.C. State graduate students evaluated the, project with a benefit/cost ratio. A value of at least one is usually needed to justify a project. The gntduate students got three- tenths of one. Experts from around North Carolina also opposed the project because it would cover thousands of acres 0f prime agricultural land with water of very poor quality. The water would have nutrient levels a· magnitude higher than is necessary for accelerated eutrophication, which negates the possibility of using the water for recreation. In addition, the phosphorous levels would mean that, in C<mgratulations to Nakhillpetyan Gevork, who won the ten dollar pri2;e for the seventh problem of the week. Correct solutions were also submitted by Benedikt Blunschi, Laszlo B~>roczky, Je~nne Bouchard~ Michael Emmi, Scott Fisher, Roxanae Ghezzi, Jesse Hull, Peter Katz, Doug Koehn, Keith Reynolds, and Matt Trainor. Solutions shottld be submitted to Lois Bini!; in the Mathematics Department ()ffice between the hours of <Ja.m. - 11a.m. ~tnd 2p.m. - 4p.m., Monday through Friday. The first correct solution submitted:will receive the weekly ten dollar prize. Correct solution~ will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB pre~ent MARILYN ROSSINCK Dept. of Plant Pathology Cornell University \PlantVnuses as Models for MolecUlar Mechanisms'' Thursday, March 9,1989 4:40pm SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHEMENTS 4:30 :br. Roossinck is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department. Adirondack Research Center Contact: David Gibson Adirondack Research Ctr. 518-382-7890 Schedules Spring Programs Schenectady filmmaker Larry king will show the film \Adirondack Adventures\ at the Adirondack Research Center's first spring program on Wednesday, March 15 beginning at 8:00 pm at the Schenectady Museum Auditorium. The Museum is located on Nott Terrace Heights in Schenectady. The program is free of charge and everyone is welcome. The fumis introduction states that: \the 'forever wild' protection of our State Forest Preserve is · always under attack by those who would diminish its wild forest character. The purpose of this film is to promote public awareness of the non~desttuctive uses of the Forest Preserve. The film features such uses as hiking, wild flower photography, canoeing, cross-country skiing, and snow-shoeing.\ ~ The Research Center'.s second program is set · for Wednesday, April 19. The speaker will be . Nina Webb. who will describe her construction : of a model boat built by the late 19th century Adirondack surveyor, Verplanck Colvin. The Adirondack Research Center and its archival and ·libtary collections was founded in Schenectady in 1979 to promote research and · • education about the Adirondack Park and the New · . York State ·Forest Preserve. In 198S it joined with The Association for the Protection of the : Adirondacks. For further information about programs or other activities, please contact· the · · · , Research Center at 382-7890. order to get potable water from . the lake, millions of dollars would have to be spent by the surrounding towns on treatment systems. The experts agreed that, \If we looked for the worst place to build a dam in North Carolina, we would not do rn uch better than this site.\ It is apparent that the Corps was wron:g in saying that the lake was needed, as evidenced by the benefit to cost ratio. The Corps was also wrong in saying tllat the lake could be used for recreation and drinking water. The Army Corps of Engineers is a very old and reputable orgnization. \It is, in short, a select club of highly skilled professionals, beholden to each other and to the Corps.\ The Corps, however, is an exclusive federal agency; it does !lot play by the same rules a~ all other federal agencies. \The Corps can dictate its own projects without even full congressional oversight, much less any control from the executive branch.\ There have been many attempts to reduce the power of the Corps; all have been unsuccessful. The latest attempt was by President Jimmy Carter, who tried. to halt 40 projects that were not cost-efficient and were detrimental to the environment. Two prejects were eventually stopped. Since this project was nine years old, there were a few project directors before Colonel Johnstone, the director in 1976 when a report was published by Hydroc-om.p stating, in essence, that the dam project was a big mistake. The Colonel had three options: 1. Stop consturction. 2. Finish and leave the lake bed dry. 3. Finish the project as planned. If the Colonel chose to stop construction after millions of dollars had been spent, he would ruin his car.eer. His predecessors on the project were now his superiors, and the Corps' \old-boy\ method of promotion would eliminate any• chance of the Colonel advancing his career. The second choice was obviously the best if the politics of the situation are not considered. The farmland could be used, it would not be necessary to elevate roads to allow for the lake, and the volume of floodwater able to be held would be increased. The Colonel, presumably succumbing to Corps pressure, decided to go ahead and fill the lake, and to downplay the report that said how bad the water quality would be. In 1986, lhc towns surrou_nding the lake had to pay millions of dollars to remove the phosphorous. Colonel Johnstone went from North Carolina to Korea, to becoming a brigadier general before being honorably retired from the Corps. Although we don't know what went through the Colonel's mind, it appears the Colonel acted contrary to ideal moral standards. He acted selfishly at the expense of every taxpayer and many fanners. He saved his career and saved the face of the Corps by going ahead with the project, though by any engin~<,ering, economical, or environmental viewpoint an alternative should have been chosen. America ... home of the free. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB present SCOTT PRIEBE Dept. ofBiology Brookhaven National Laboratory ''Conjugative Elements in the Baterial Genus Streptococcus'' Monday, March 13, 1989 4:40pm SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHEMENTS 4:30 Dr. Priebe is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department.

CONCORDlENSIS Marcfl IJ, 1989 Page 9 ·SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY America: Home ·of the Fre,e was no suitable site at the appropriate distance u pstreil.In. Theitr solution was to pt~t a dam at a particular spot where the water cot:tld be store<l in a lake formed by a ndt1or tributary. The Corps said tbat the lake tt1at would be formed could be used for Fecreatioll and as a water supply for the surrounding tov;ns. Construction of the dam began in 1967. By KEVIN GARDNER Science & Technology Editor It is generally agreed upon that the benefits of a project should outweigh the harms that the project may cause; both to humans and their property, and to the quality of the environment. Politics, and in some cases a lack of morals, can have drastic effects on engineering projects, which inevitably have the same drastic effects on humans and their environs_ A project undertaken by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1967 illustrates the effects politics may have in decisioR-making, and the resultant cost to humans and the environment. The Haw River has, in the past, caused serious flooding in Fayetteville, N.C. The Army Corps of Engineers was called upon to come up wi 1h some design to control flooding. The typical solution of bu·ilding a dam to catch the floodwaters could not be used because there Problem of the Week Following construction came a flood of controversy-.. A hydrologist from N.C. St2te fo~;md that the Corps !tad estimated much. larger flDod volumes and much_ g:veater damage than actually VI (lllld ever have occured. The Co:rps was then asked to publish an environmental imp~ct statement (e.i.s.). An e_i.s_ is actually supposed to precee<l a project so l!hat the wisdom of a project can be evaluated. It is a powerful tool, in conjuncUon with the court, used t<J halt potentially dangerous projects. This, however, was n()t the case with the Corps. Suppose a and b are positive integers and suppose al> + 1 divides a 2 + b 2 with no remainder. Show that the quotient (a 2 + b2)/(al> + 1) is the square of an integer. Opposition to the project continued_ N.C. State gradLJate students evaluated the pr()jcct with a benefit/cost ratio. A value of at least one is usually needed to justify a project_ 'The graduate students got three- tenths of one. Experts irom around North Carolina <tlso opposed the project because it would cover thousands of .acres of prime agricultural land with water of very poor quality. !he water would have nutrient levels a- magnitude higher tllan is necessary for accelcnted eutrophication, which negates the possibility of using: the water for recreation. [n addition, the phospho rolls levels would mean that, in Congratulations to Nakhapetyan Gevork, who won the ten dollar prize for the seventh problem of the week. Correct solutions were also submitted by Benedikt Blunschi, Laszlo Boroczky, Jeanne Bouchard, Michael Emmi, Scott Fisher, Roxanne Ghezzi, Jesse Hull, Peter Katz, Doug Koehn, Keith Reynolds, and Matt Trainor. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9a.m. - 11a.m. and 2p.m. - 4p.m., Monday through Friday. Tb.e first correct solution submitted will receive the weekly tell dollar prize. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletill board outside Bailey 106. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB present MARILYN ROSSINCK Dept. of Plant Pathology Cornell University \Plant VIrUSes as Models for Molecular Mechanisms'' Thursday, March 9, 1989 4:40pm SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHEMENTS 4:30 br. Roossinck is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department. Adirondack Research Center Contact: David GibS()I1 Adirondack Research Ctt. 518-382-7890 Schedules Spring Programs Scllenectady filmmaker Larry king will sllow the film \Adirondack Adventures\ at the Adirondack Research Center's first STJring program on Wednesday, March 15 beginni11g at 8:00 pm at the Schenectady M u:scurn Auditori urn. The Museum is located on Nott Terrace Heights in Schenectady. The program is free of charge and everyone is welcome. The film's introduction states that: \the 'forever wild' protection of our State Forest Prese:rvc is always under attack by those who ~auld diminish its wild forest character. The puryo~e of this film is to promote public awareness af the non-destructive uses of the Forest Preserve. The film features such uses as hiking, wild nower photography, canoeing, cross-country skiing, and snow-shoeing.\ The Research Center's second program is set for Wednesday, April 19. The speaker w-ill be Nina Webb, who will describe her construction of a model boat built by the late 19th century Adirondack surveyor, Verplanck Colvin. The Adirondack Research Center am~ its archival and library collections was founded in Schenectady in 1979 to promote researclll and education about the Adirondack Park and tile New Yor:k State Forest Preserve. In 1988 it joined with The Association for the Protection ()f the Adimndacks. For further information .about programs or other activities, please conta_ct the , Research Center at 382-7890. order to get potable water from . the lake, millions of dollars would have to be spent by the surrounding towns on treatment systems. The experts agreed that, \If we looked for the worst place to build a dam in Nord1 Carolina, we would not do much better than this site.\ It is apparent that the Corps was wrong in saying that the lake was needed, as evidenced by the benefit to cost ratio. The Corps was also wrong in saying that the lake could be used for recreation and drinking water. The Army Corps of Engineers is a very old and reputable orgnization. \It is, iH short, a select club of highly skilled professionals, beholden to each other and to the Corps.\ The Corps, however, is an exclusive federal agency; it docs not play by the same rules as all other federal agencies. \The Corps can dictate its own projects without even full congressional oversight, much less any control from the executive branch.\ There have been many attempts to reduce the power of the Corps; all ha vc been unsuccessful. The latest attempt was by President Jimmy Carter, who tried to halt 40 projects that were not cost-efficient and were detrimental to the environment. Two projects were eventually stopped. Since this project was nine years old, there were a few project directors before Colonel Johnstone, the director in 1976 when a report was published by Hydr ocomp stating, in essence, that the dam project was a big mistake. The Colonel had three options: 1. Stop consturction. 2. Finish and leave the lake bed dry. 3. Finish the project as planned. If the Colonel chose to stop construction after millions of doUars had been spent, he would ruin his career. His predecessors on the project were now his superiors, and the Corps' \old-boy\ method of promotion would eliminate any chance of the Colonel advancing his career. The second choice was obviously the best if the politics of the situation arc not considered. The farmland could be used, it would not be necessary to elevate roads to allow for the lake, and the volume of floodwater able to he held would be increased. The Colonel, presumably succumbing to Corps pressure, decided to go ahead and fill the lake, and to downplay the report that said how bad the water quality would be. In I {}R6, the towns surrounding the Jake had to pay millions of dollars to remove the phosphorous. Colonel Johnstone went from North Carolina to Korea, to becoming a brigadier general before being honorably retired from the Corps. Although we don't know what went through the Colonel's mind, it appears the Colonel acted contrary to ideal moral standards. He acted selfishly at the expense of every taxpayer and many farmers. He saved his career and saved the face of the Corps by going ahead with the project, though by any engine.cring, economical, or environmental viewpoint an alternative should have been chosen. America ... home of the free. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB present SCOTT PRIEBE Dept. of Biology Brookhaven National Laboratory \Conjugative Elements in the Baterial Genus Streptococcus'' Monday, March 13, 1989 4:40pm SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHEMENTS 4:30 Dr. Priebe is a candidate for a faculty position in the Biology Department.

Page lO CONCORDfENSJS March 9, 1989 Want to ... Go to extravagant places, Do wild things, meet interesting people and kill them! Play Women~ Rugby!! Information Meeting Tuesday, March 28th Fox Lo·unge 7:00pm Be There - no experience neccesary! WHAT CAN U DO TO HELP? Special Olympics is hosting a local bowling tournament on MARCH 12, 1989 FROM 11 AM- 2 PM and is looking for volunteers to keep score for the atheletes. Anyone who is interested in helping out can contact Jeanne at 381-3933. SPONSORED BY CIRCLE-K, UNION I'N:DIAN BLA:NK:ET Special Offer Free Blessing Size 12X90, And· Choice of Blue or Brown. AuthentiC ·Indian .oeslgn .Each One Personally Blessed av Wise Owl, Medicine Man And Chief Drowning creek Reservation S150. vatue For Only $39. Postpaid Satisfaction Guaranteed, The· Only Blanket Offered To. The Publl:c .Blessed By Indian Medicine Man Your Order ProvideS Help urgently Need.ed .By Tribe., Please Write: Chief Wise owl, Drowning creek Reservation, R#2 Box 108, ·Maxton N.C. 28364 Taste The ~~reamy · Frozen Frutt Treat p VITARI Offers .... Fresh fruit goodness with no added sugar. The creaminess of • tcecream with no cholesterol or lactose. It's so unique, it's patented! Winner of Vitari Shirt - Scott Weisberg· ------------------~----~-- UNION COLLEGE JAZZ ENSEMBLE CABARET TONIGHT , College. Center Standards and Rock n'Roll Free of Charge Directed by Tom Ross Rob Vlock-bass Joel McKuin-al1o sax Doug Koehn- alto sax Greg Spampin~do-percussion · Gary Pastizzo-drums John Lennon- tru~pet Adam Gunzberg- t~n.or sax .,, Steve Sanders- .guitar Mark· Allen trombone · · l .

; . CONCORDJJJ,NSIS March 9, 1989 Page 11 . . Nicargua Needs lnternafion.al Assi.stance By TAMRA TIBBETS Hurricane Joan completely devasted parts of Nicaragua when it hit shore on Oct0er 21. Crops were destroyed and towns levelled as waters rose up to 46 higher than nor.mal and winds ripped through the small country at speeds· up to 150 miles per hour. ·Response to tlJ.e disaster was immediate. Several European countries,. including Belgium, Czechoslovakia, East and West Germany, France, Great Britain, Italy, the Soviet Union, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland, quickly .sent · necessary funds and resources. As the last winds died down and t!le waters receded, the long. road to recovery began. Many, schools· were also ruined and are now facing this tilne of reconstruction, Students in Nicaragua are seeking school supplies; items found in abundance on college . campuses. Pens, pencils, notebooks; and other student parapherialia are being sent to ,Nicaragua. The opportunity w ·reach across political barriers and assist in restoring educational institutions is at hand. Hearing the ):oices of ®f~~&~~ct Eryoy Spring.·_ Break· +~11•~@:g-l_~ Nicaraguan. students, the Campus J;>rotest:ant Ministry is responding and asks for your assistance. A box will be :r>laced near the Bookstore dl}fing Central America week. the first week .of S~ring Term. Supplies wHi be delivered through the Quixote Center,. a clearinghouse responsible for much of the humanitarian aid that has been sent to Nicaragua from the United States .. Pens and paper breed knowledge, which in terms implies reason and understanding. As we contribute to the educational needs of our generation, perhaps the futu-re will hold peace. Language Tables. Mondays: FRENCH SPANISH JAPANESE 12:45 - 1:45 Tuesdays: 11:30 - 12:30 . CHINESE Wednesdays: GERMAN .RUSSIAN 12:45 - 1:45 . Tbursdays: 11:30 - 12:30 ITALIAN Friday: 12:45 - 1:45 ISU . Meetin the Upperclass Diningroom in the ~olleg~ Center. ·TAitE THI!EE INTERNATIONAL FEATURES What Are The Two Germanies? By· JENS BOLI{OEFER W'henever I have been . identified as a foreigner at · · Union College and asked where I was {rpm, my answer~ \I'm. · · fr.om Germany, II has rarely sufficed. sometimes to my dismay.. Most people know that there are two Gertn:anies, · but many don't know which is which and that people from East Gennany are usually not allowed to travel-freely :in tbe Western world. After all, an East German at Union would be a rare finnd indeed. Questions like II Are y&u the j · good guys or the bad .guys?\ . 1· have not been unique. Thus. I now try to make my ans-y.rer more specific by saying that I am from West Germany, the \Fed.eral Republic of Germany.\ Inorder to banish a few common American misconceptions at Union about my country, I would like to review the status of th.e two Germanies today. However. it is very difficuh tq. tell something about a country (now two countries), which is so strongly shaped by its history. One can only understand Germany tb.rough its history. . The two German States.are a product of the total defeat of Nazi Germany in World Warn and the inability of the victorious Allies (the United States, the Soviet Union, . Britain, and France) to work together . toward the establishment of a peaceful and democratic n~gime in a 1.1nited country. In 1945 the Allies agreed on far-reaching changes · affecting Germany's ~ocial, economic, and political · institutions under joint and long-term Allied co-ntrol. However., Soviet and Western ideas on how to attain these -objecti..es soon proved to be so contradictory that within two years of the occupation -of Germany by wartime allies, joint control ended, and the country was split into two sections, one controlled by the Soviet Union; the other by the three Western powers. In 1949 the Western Allies terminated their military gqvernmertt and the western part of Germany became the Federal Republic of Germany (FRG)--my Germany. The Soviet Union, for its part, established the Gern1an Democratic !tepub~ic (GDR)-- the _ \Peoples Republic of Germany\ --in its zone so that the two Germanies were built . up as bulwarks against each other; that is to say, against the economic syste~;n represented by the other: Eastern versus Western ideology. In 1955 West Gt._many became a sovereign country and, a day later, joined NATO. The GDR followed by joining the Warsaw Pact so that from then on it has seemed virtually impossible that the countries could ever be reunited. This situation by itself is not entirely unique because there are other countries in the world that have been divided for several reasons. What makes Germany's situation peculiar, however, is the confrontation it presents between state-of-the- art capitalis-m in a Western, technologically advanced FRG versus state-of-the-art Marxist- Leninist-socialism in an equally industrialized GDE. None of the other divided countries of the world show such an intense contrast. The contrast is even more startling in the microcosm of the two Berlins. Berlin, the former capital of \greater Germany,\ lies in the middle of the GDR and is actually closer to Poland than to West Geriilany. It is a divided city. Just as the rest of Germany had been split, into four zones, Berlin is divided into four sectors, three of which make West Berlin, the fourth (former Soviet) East Berlin. Since 1961 the city is divided not only politically bitt also physically through the ''Wal-l\ and aU that goes with it. It is this situation that makes the contrast so .striking, because here the two ideologies collide: an intense little capitalist island enclosed by a socialist country. West Berlin does not belong to West Germany, but is only represented by West Germany in its foreign affairs. Although the East German govermcnt calls East Berlin the capital of the GDR, it is not an official part of East Germany. It is subject to the same restrictions of self-government and control by the Allies as the three sectors of West Berlin. The West Berlin Senate sends 22 representativs to the West Gen:rtan Bundestag (Congress). Those representatives, however, have no right to vote, but are only observers. Many West German laws also apply to West Berlin, but there are still several fields where only the four Allies can make decisions. The complex situation of what determines Gcrrmany today explains why so few people really know and understand my country. Maybe this brief article sheds some light on the many differences between the lwo Gcrmanies and helps eliminate misconceptions about Germany which has become two different countries, both with some\good guys\ and some \bad guys.\ Next Spring The French Club Might Sponsor A Trip To • • - I I I • • I • • • • ..... iJlH~ IIANll -- •. t~ · ATifltl.\\ T.H. 9·11 1•,\\ I I I • • • ·• . • • • • • I I I • • • • • •••• ...... ' ••••• ---- ---- ---- ---- MONTREAL Anyone interested should contact Andrea x4185

.,age U CONC()BDIENSl$ March ,, 198!} .. I ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT I I. '':' .... I .. I I .. Evolution Of A Revolution .. . By JOHN F. MULLER This is part two of a three- part story on Elektra Recording Artists METALLICA. In 1983, Metallica released Kill 'Em All and launched a whole new style of music; \thrash metal\ was born. Nurtured out of the band's affection for the New Wave of Rri ti sh Heavy Metal (the early wnrks of Irorr l'v1aidcn, Judas Priest, Saxon, and the liulc known Diamond Head), Me tall ica's style was an abrupt twist on the standard formula. A comhination of the crunchy guitar riffs of heavy metal and the all-out speed and rebellion of the long-dead punk scene, Kill 'Em AH has become quintessential metal album of the 1980's. The album begins with Lars Ulrich's rolling thunder on the skins and then the nearly . preposterously heavy power ' chords of \Hit the Lights\ rip in like a buzz-saw. This album breaks into a new frontier jn music; razor-sharp riffs played at the speed of light laid the foundation for Metallica's raw, in-your-face lyrical style. All the songs were destined to become classics, but \Whiplash\ (with its furious double-bass beat uniting with a chaotic rhythm and fire-burst solo) and \Seck and Destroy\ (Mct:allica's ultimate live song) have found a special place in metal afficionados' hearts. With an unpretentious philosophy, Metallica was in the business for one reason - to make the best music possible, one way and one way only, THEIR WAY. The most amazing part about the Metallica Revolution is that it began on the tiny Megaforce Record label and thus got rather minor distribution and promotion. As it turns out, Megaforce has ·become a megaforce in the rise of numerous thrash metal bands, but for Metallica to gain such notoriety right from the start is a testament to the band's genius. Next, Ride the Lightning JVas released. in 1984 and Meta:Uica was quickly snapped up by Elek.tra Records. Metallica's legion of fans quickly grew as exposure to_ the new album increased. \Creeping Death\ became the newest Metalliclassic, showing the boys have read the Bible, of all bits of literature. The song tells the .story of the Hebrews, the Pharoah, and Passover; need I say more? \Creeping Death\ contains at least five different rhythm changes and absolutely impossibly fast drum runs. James Hetfield is particularly menacing on vocals, \Die by my hand .. .l creep across the land ... killing first born men.\ On the flip side of the European single for \Creeping Death\ is Metallica's tribute to their fall-time faves Diamond Head, the destined show-stopper, \Am I EviL\ \Am 1 Evil:' is an eight minute epic that tells the story of a young man whose mother was burned at the stake for supposedly being a witch. This PRIZES POETS Deadline March 29 Find out more in the Eng:Hsh D~partment - .doomy number not only shelves and quickly sold over a displays-James ·Hetfield as a 'tniUion ·copies' .in the l)'.S. bonafide singer but showcases - alone. The alhurn is thankfully Kirk Hammett'S guitar not a departure from the :true virtuosity as he reproduces Metallica style but production Brian Tatler's original solo has become even more crisp~ note-for-note. It is one. of the sending the drum sound into many jewels -in MetaUica'.s ano tb.er dimension. Also, crown. (By the way,, the good ••• And Justice For AU pWple .at Elektra have included sho\Ws a marked change in the this on the re~telease of Kill way guitar solos have been 'Em AU.) incorporated into the songs. In 19.86, Maste~r o.f So:los are no longer in the Puppets certified· them gold. spotlight but serve to tell tbe This album combined the story fhnher; they &re viciousness of the early days incredibly intricate and wilh the band's growing emotion~laden. \To Live Is To ma·turity and an excellent Die\ is a!l a:fi.sorbing production sound. Metallica insttomental piece written by incorporated intricate melodies Cliff Burton and included in the with their patented immens.e albam as a tri15ute to the late guitar blast to break more. new bassist. It is an excellent ground in .the metal scene. The philosophic comme~t· on a fitle track is an eight minute sordid world .•.. And_ Justice in6_:c,tment of the evils of drug Fer All opens with abuse and how it transforms a \Blackened a n:>Her coaster human being; \Leper Messiah\ ride rhythm behind the song's foretold all the ridiculous warning of environmental revelations about televangilists destruction if man does not pay we have heard over the past · m6te attention to civilization's year. Clearly, Metallica was effects on the Earth ... \One way ahead of their time. They based on the film Johnny embarked on an arena tour G~1 His Gun; is the piece de opening for Ozzy Osbourne and resi~tance of the album. It all indications were that the continues the anti-war theme boys were about to go right to beg11n in RTL's brooding \For the top. Tragedy struck in Whom The Bells Tolls\ and September 1986 when bassist the scathing indktment of Cliff Burton was killed in a mil-itary culture, M 0 P 's bus accident in Sweden. In \Disposab-le Heroes.\ The story Cliff, MctaHica lost not only of a man destroyed in the war. an incredible musician but a \One\ writhes with gut- great friend and intricate part of wrenching dispanty. This song the band. But the boys forged has sent Metallica into on and recruited Jason Newsted, uncllarted territory - undeniable the energetic bassist/leader of commercial s~ccess. Flotsam and Jetsam. Soon after, Mctallica released The $5.98 E,P, introducing Newsted to the world on five cover tunes. J.n September .'88, .•. And Justice For All bit the T:lie next Metallica article will be a review of their live shows on March 15 atRPI and Match 18 at Syracuse. There w·ill. also be an interview ·(I hope). ·~- CABARET!! . . .. , ,,;~ . ~,..~ .. ~· . . ; ' Tonight - 9:00 Free Admission

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 ~~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~~ .................................................. ~~~~ .............. ~ .... ~ ................................ . Evolution By JOHN F. MULLER This is part two of a three- part story on Elcktra Recording Artists METALLIC A. In l<JX~, Metallica rcka\cd Kill 'Em :\II and launched a \hok lh'W o.;tyk of music: \thLt- tlll'lal\ v-.:ao.; hPrn. '\urtur,·,t cut 111 the band'..; ;t:J .. 1:••11 ·''\ tlh· '\,·\\ \\ ;i\'t' ol 1\ I ' i ' '!I f I..; I \ '. \ 1 ! \I I llll' '.: lr h \,,.,,_, <I Jr,,n \Ltttkn. Ji,t 1 .,, 1'!!.,:. S.i\(IIJ. :trLIIIw li!lk J...JIIl\\1} j)J.IIIIillld fk;tdl. \ !.·; tl!t, ;1·, --~~ k \\:1-. an :tl>rupt t11.1't •HI tiJ,· -.randard IPrmui:L r\ c\\\''n:tllllll olthc crunchy l!tlltar rill.; 1'f hea\'\' metal ~m~l ' - th~.· all-out ~p~.·cd and n:hellion ol thl' lun,\!-dcad punk scene. Kill 'Em :\11 has become quint~·o.;-.;ential metal aloum ot the I <JX()'s. Tht' album hegins with Lars Ulrich's rolling thunder on the skins and then the ncar! y preposterously heavy power chords of \Hit the Lights\ rip in like a huzz-saw. This album breaks into a new frontier in music; razor-sharp riffs played at the speed of light laid the foundation for Metallica's raw, in-your-face lyrical style. All the songs were destined to become classics, but \Whipiash\ (with its furious douhlc-hass heat uniting with a chaotic rhythm and fire-burst -;oln) an,J \Seck and Destroy\ 1'\kt:tllic·a·, ultimate live son~l kt\ ,. ltlltlld J 'l''',·1al pbrc in n~c·t.d .tilt'\ >n~~tlo-.. ill'arts. \\ ilh ;!II U!lpi'L'l~:'lll!OU\ pLtlll'•'l'hy, \kt:tlltl.·a was m the· bu-..111<':-..-.; li!l' lllll' rL~a:-.l>ll- to lll:!h.l' till' bL'\[ llll!Sil' JhhSihlc. mw I}. ay and orll.' way only, TIIEIR \\'AY. Till' mo~t amat.ing part about the Metallin1 Revolution is that it began on the tiny Megaforce Record label and thus got rather minor distribution and promotion. As it turns out, Mcgaforce has become a megaforce in the rise of numerous thrash metal bands, but for Mctallica to gain such notoriety right from the start is a testament to the band's genius. ·College Center, Union:: College Tonight~, 9!'00~ *fCabrotet! n . Of A Revolution Next, Ride the Lightning was released in 1984 and Metallica was quickly snapped up by Elektra Records. Metallica's legion of fans quickly grew as exposure to the new album increased. \Creeping Death\ hecamc the newest Metallic lassie, showing the boys have read the Bihk. of all hits of literature. The song tells the story of the Hebrews. the· l'haruah, and Paso.;over: llL't'd I s~ty n1nr~..·) 'Crn·rin~; Death\ contai \\ at ka-.t fivt' di ffercnt rhythm chan~~.·...; :md ahsolutdy impmsihly fast drum runs. Janw-. lktfidd i~ particularly lllt'nacing on vocals, \Die by my h<.~nd ... l creep across the land ... killing first horn men.\ On the flip side of the European single for \Creeping Death\ is Mctallica's tribute to their fall-time faves Diamond Head, the destined show-stopper, \Am I Evil.\ \Am I Evil\ is an eight minute epic that tells the story of a young man whose mother was burned at the stake for supposedly being a witch. This PRIZES POETS Deadline March 29 Find out more in the English Department ., doomy number not only displays James Hetfield as a bonafide singer but showcases Kirk Hammett's guitar virtuosity as he reproduces Brian Tatler' s original solo note-for-note. It is one of the many jewels in Metallica's crown. (By the way, the good people at Elektra have included this on the re-release of Kill 'Em AH.) In 19.86, Master of Puppets certified them gold. This album combined the viciousness of the early days with the band's growing maturity and an excellent production sound. Metallica incorporated intricate melodies with their patented immense guitar blast to break more new ground in the metal scene. The fitlc track is an eight minute inC:ctment of the evils of drug abuse and how it transforms a human being; \Leper Messiah\ foretold all the ridiculous revelations about tclevangilists we have heard over the past year. Clearly, Metallic a was way aheud of their time. They embarked on an arena tour opening for Ozzy Osbourne and all indications were that the boys were about to go right to the top. Tragedy struck in So:·pll'lllhcr Jl)g6 when bassist Cllll Burtun was killed in a huo.; \'' i,knt in S\\~dcn. In Clift. \ktall r-:a loo.;t not onh an i11- r~.·dihk musician hut ~~ !!TC:ll l r it' rlll :md i nt ric ate part of tho.: band. But the boys forged on and rccruit12d Jason Ncwstcd, th,· energetic bassist/leader of Flotsam and Jetsam. Soon after, \1ctallica released The $5.91'1 EP, introducing 1\:cwsted to the world on five cover tunes. In September '88, •.. And Justice For All hit the shelves and quickly sold over a million copies in the U.S. alone. The album is thankfully not a departure from the true Metal'lica style but production has become even more crisp, sending the drum sound into another dimension. Also, ••. And Justice Fur Ail shows a marked change in the way guitar solos have been incorporated into the songs. Solos are no longer in the spotlight but serve to tell the story further; they are incredibly intricate and emotion-laden. \To Live Is To Die\ is an absorbing instrumental piece written by Cliff Burton and included in the album as a tribute to the late bassist. It is an excellent philosophic comment on a sordid world .... And Justice For All opens with \Blackened a roller coaster ride rhythm behind the song's warning of environmental destruction if man does not pay more attention to civilization's effects on the Earth. \One based on the film .Johnnv Got His Gun, is the piece de resistance of the album. It continues the anti-war theme begun in RTL's hrooding \For Whom The Bells Tolls\ und the sc:.~th ing i ndi nnwn t of military culture. :\1 0 P ·~ \Dtsposahk Hl'Wl''· · Thl· -.tmv of a man J..:stro~ .::J in Lh..: wa~. ··one\ wrilhl·~ \~ ith l:,Ut- \vrenchin)! disparity. Tlu-. ~llll)! has sent Metallica into uncharted territory- umkni:..thlc commercial success. The next Mctallica article will be a review of their live shows on March 15 at RPI and March 18 at Syracuse. There will also be an interview (I hope). CABARET!! ' Tonight - 9:00 Free Admission I IIIII ' ,( i. ' ' ;·. ' ,• ' I .. ,.,

... CQNCORDlENSIS Mar~h 9, 1989 Page 13 ·, ART.S & ENTERTAINMENT Horoscopes by \T\ \FugitiVes\ .~ails PISCES: It's okay if no one remembers your birthday. Believe it or not, this is .the ~right .side of things to come. By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor performances by Short and Nolte are incredibly typecast. Nplte is a bearish and seemingly insensitive criminal The day .that bank robber' who is actually just tJ;\yi~g to exttaordinaire John LUkas conceal a heart of gold. Short (Nick .Nolte). is released from is a bumbling incompetent jail, Ned Pllll)' (Martin Short) who trips over\ his own feet at tobs a hank and takes Lukas lea~t three times per scene. The hosta;ge. ih·e police, combination of the two is suprisingly en~ugh, believe amusing .at first but quickly that Lukas, super·thief, has in becomes unexciting .. fact masterminded Purry's Tpe. plot of · \Three incredibly bungled robb¢ry. So Fugitives\ is posslbly even (stupidly) .begins \Three tess original. M{)$t of ·the Fugitives/' a gopfy and· action is constituted by Nolte extremely predi-ctable comedy threateni:n.g. people, or the duo diiiectM by Francis Beber. running from the police. Most \Three Fugi;tives' 1 ' major of its jokes are -old hat (an problem is that th'e .elderly veterinarian ha~ difficulty disti~guishing between Nolte and' a hunting dog; a small-time hood gets caught with hi.s .pants down (literally: Short dresses as a woman in order to evade the police, etc.), and the happy ending is not exactly a shocker. Sitting through \Thre Fugitives\ is like watching \Innerspace\ (minus a· decent plot and some interesting special effects) and ''48 Hours 1 ' (minus Eddie Murphy) combined. AHhough \Three Fugitives\ is not without some better moments, it · is thoroughly mediocre and painfully unorigililal. Wait until HBO. C. The Replacements . D.on''t Stink By JOHN S~ MORGAN On their third Sire Records release, Don't ,TeU a Soul, The Replacemeu.ts have cleaned up andtoned d<iwn their act- aU in the name of maturity. Maturity alone does not make a good record, which is what Don't Ten a Soul is. The preponderance of the evidence s ugges t.s. that The Replacements bave sold out, but just enough of the toughness exhibited in their independent label days ren1ains - making their crafted pop of today superb. This effort is :fat from Let It Be (one of their Twin Tone releases); with the excep.tion of \I Won't,\ no song displays genuine ''kick.\: Old guaxd Replacement fanatics judge \·'Mats\ albums by the number of times the adjective \raucous\ can be applied to it. Those who count themselves among this crowd can stop reading a sentence ago. Ther:e is little doubt that Don't Tell a Soul is being targeted at commercial radio. The Replacements used to aim higher, but YUPPIE PYX listeners have Tarely been e~posed to catchy pop w.ith such a pronounced artistic edge. \tll Bet You\ is a beautifully performed mid· tempo rocker featuring Paul WeSterberg's trademark vocals over top of inelancholy guitars. And then there is \Asking Me Lies.'' While the hypothesis is o-verstated (\The rich are getting ii:cher, the poor are getting drunk .. ~\) this song win undoubtedly be the darling of music critics that wait for songs to be heard on AOR radio before they rave about them. It's a great tune; you heard it here first. This is the first time a Replacements record has had two well designed singles. Throw in a leact.:off track, \Talent .Show,\ and this is a · record worth having. The Replacements will be performing at The Palace Theatre on March 17. While this is not Spike~ there is no new recQrd that comes any closer. Speaking of Elvis, he plays The Palace on April7. ·s· · · · ···b .. · ·. · ·t t· .. · T· · ·h· .. ·.. ·1· ·o.·O·. . •.L·· 11 u m1 0 . e ·.. I I Box #1116 ARIES: Now isn't the time. TAURUS; People dream of you, or else you dream of people dreaming of you ... GEMINI: The twin you never met, well, you'll nm into this week. (A good excuse for the final you fail.)· CANCER: The moon might be in Leo, which could either mean sudden death or lottery success. LEO: Go home now. There's no hope. VIRGO: Keep checking you:r reputation. You never know where it's at. liBRA: Your moon is in a black hole. A void construction sites. SCORPIO: People aren't ignoring you. Stop listening to those voices in your head . SAGITTARIUS: The library is no place to scan for someone to keep you warm during exams. Try Wonder Burger. CAPRICORN: Help yourself! Help yourself! Help yourself to Stouffer's Pizza! ' AQUARIUS: Never take advice from strangers. __ ._ ____ _ - !===-=======. ============::::;;-:r;:. =-.-=-=-=-=--=-=-=-=-:-=-.·-=~- _. -cLIP 'N'SAVE- _. - SENIORS .;, . • The WRUC New· 8.97 I .. Due to overwhelming popular d.emapd., ... · c0mniencement ' - - - - ~ . . .,_· - - - . speeches will _not be due until . March 31 at 4:30 pm All speeches must be in Mrs. Marra's Office (Room 408 Carnegie) at this time. ·Again, the topic is yours to choose. I I What follows. is a listing of 8.97 albums to listen to while traveling to week long I. . . fun-orgie~. I I N·o •. -ARTIST ALBUM. ·.1 I I I I I I I I I I 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8.97 - . Gua<lalcanal Diary Fine Young Cannibals •The Replacements Elvis Cos\ello Tht()wing Muses The Buck Pets XTC Lou Reed. The Procwmers FLIP-FLOP THE RAW & THE COOKED DON'T TELL A SOUL SPIKE HUNKPAPA TilE BUCK PETS ORANGES AND LEMONS NEW YORK SUNSHINE ON LEITH Eye:brow nRaising Song 0' The Week: THE CONNELS,. \SAT NITE (USA)\ · Most Requested: . TIIAT STUPID DEAD MILKMEN SONG LABEL Elektra IRS Sire Warner Sire Island Geffen Sire Chrysalis I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I ~- .... - ..... ___ ___ Certified accurate to two decimal digits by Ron Eugenio and JohnS. Morgat 1 ----- ... ------------ 1.

r: I' ' \ ,, I '· ; ~ •' ., d ,• ,, I r • > ' CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1989 Page 13 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT \Fugitives\ Fails Horoscop.es by '' T'' PISCES: It's okay if no one remembers your birthday. Believe it or not, this is the bright side of things to come. By CAMERON KENNY Arts Editor The day that bank robber extraordiaaire John Lukas (Nick Nolte) is released from jail, Ned Purry (Martin Short) robs a bank and takes Lukas hosta,ge. The police, suprisingly enough, believe that Lukas, super-thief, has in fact masterminded Purry's incredibly bungled robbery. So (stupidly) begins \Three Fugitives,\ a goofy and extremely predictable comedy cfuected by Francis Beber. \Th.ree Fugitives\' major problem is that the performances by Short and Nolte are incredibly typecast Nolte is a bearish and seemingly insensitive cr.iminal who is actually just trying to conceal a heart of gold. Short is a bumbling incompeteNt who trips over his own feet at least three times per scene. The combination of the two is amusing at first but quickly becomes unexciting. The plot of \Three Fugitives\ is possibly even less original. Most of the action is constituted by Nolte threatening people, or the duo running from the police. Most of its jokes are old hat (an elderly veterinarian has difficulty distinguishing between Nolte and a hunting dog; a small-time hood gets caught with his pants down (literally: Short dresses as a woman in order to evade the poHce, eLc.), and the happy ending is not exactly a shocker. Sitting through \Thre Fugitives\ is like watching \Innerspace\ (minus a decent plot and some interestiNg special effects) aBd \48 Hours\ (minus Eddie Murphy) combined. Although \Three Fugitives\ is not without some better moments, it is thoroughly mediocre and painfully unorigiNal. Wait until HBO. C. ARIES: Now isn't the time. TAURUS: People dream of you, or else you dream of people dreaming of you ... GEMINI: The twin you never met, well, you'll run into this week. (A good excuse for the final you fail.) CANCER: The moon might be in Leo, which could either mean sudden death or lottery success. LEO: Go home now. There's no hope. VIRGO: Keep checking your reputation. You never know where it's at. LIBRA: Your moon is in a black hole. Avoid construction sites. The Replacements Don't Stink SCORPIO: People aren't ignoring you. Stop listening to those voices in your head. SAGITTARIUS: The library is no place to scan for someone to keep you warm during exams. Try Wonder Burger. By JOHN S. MORGAN On their third Sire Records release, Den't Tell a Soul, The Replacements have cleaned up and toned down their act - all in the name of maturity. Maturity alone does not make a good record, which is what Don't Tell a Soul is. The preponderance of the evidence suggests that The Repla<:ements have sold out, but just enough of the toughness exhibited in their independent label days remains - making their crafted pop of today superb. This effort is far from Let It Be (olle of their Twin Tone releases); with the exception of \I Won't,\ no song displays genuine \kick.\ Old guard Replacement fanatics judge '\Mats\ albums by the number of times the adjective \raucous\ can be applied to it. Those who count themselves amoRg this crowd can stop reading a sentence ago. There is little doubt that Don't Tell a Soul is being targeted at commercial radio. The Replacements used to aim higher, but YUPPIE PYX listeners have rarely been exposed to catchy pop with such a pronounced artistic edge. \I'll Bet You\ is a beautifully performed mid- tempo rocker featuring Paul Westerberg's trademark vocals over top of melancholy guitars. And then there is \Asking Me Lies.\ While the hypothesis is overstated (\The rich are getting richer, the poor are getting drunk ... \) this song will undoubtedly be the darling of music critics that wait for songs to be heard on AOR radio before they rave about them. It's a great tunc; you heard it here first. This is the first time a Replacements record has had two well designed singles. Throw in a lead-off track, \Talent Show,\ and this is a record worth having. The Replacements will be performing at The Palace Theatre on March 17. While this is not Spike, there is no new record that comes any closer. Speaking of Elvis, he plays The Palace on April 7. CAPRICORN: Help yourself! Help yourself! Help yourself to Stouffer's Pizza! AQUARIUS: Never take advice from strangers. ~==========================================~~r-~~--~~--~~--~~--~:--~=--~-- -- -cLWN'SAVE .. _. ._ -- .... _. .. _. SENIORS .., I -- I I I I I Due to overwhelming popular demand, commencement speeches will not be due until - March 31 at 4:30pm All speeches must be in Mrs. Marra's Office (Room 408 Carnegie) at this time. Again, the topic is yours to choose. I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I The WRUC New 8.97 What follows is a listing of 8.97 albums to listen to while traveling to week long fun-orgies . NQ. ARTIST ALBUM LABEL : 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. 8.97 Guadalcanal Diary Fine Young Cannibals The Replacements Elvis Costello Throwing Muses The Buck Pets XTC Lou Reed The Proclaimers FLIP-FLOP THE RAW & THE COOKED DON'T TELL A SOUL SPIKE HUNKPAPA THE BUCK PETS ORANGES AND LEMONS NEW YORK SUNSHINE ON LEITH Eyebrow Raising Song 0' The Week: THE CONNELS, \SAT NITE (USA)\ Most Requested: THAT STUPID DEAD MILKMEN SONG Elektra IRS Sire Warner Sire Island Geffen Sire Chrysalis I I I I I I I I I I I Certified accurate to two decimal digits hy Ron Eugc·nJn ami J,,hn S \f,,rg.ll 1 . --------------- ,.-------~

Page 14 PERSONALS To '\The Cbmnmnity\ I was swallowed by a green monster in a huge sea of doom, but tllanks to you I was rescued and sent home. I thank you all. The Curtain Pulling Mad Woman. Wiley, Have a great break (where ever you wind up!) , I'll miss you! -Sylvester. Gladys, Yo11 aerobics throat. Just don't be j-ealous when I come home from tango lessons and you're still running around the room in circles. -Stanley the Disco Kid. Em~ Here's to Boston, whale watches, bra shopping, Domino's, fire alarms, endless beei'S, Dick Cocktus, Webster; So11th, a l'ot of laughs and a new year. Happy Birthday. Love Eh & B. Lerraine. Congresswoman Dirt, If and when you get those late nigllt munchies~ just run over to tbe House. the White House that is. -Open invite from George & Barbara. YAK., Jll.N and KRISTEN: Only three weeks until Anne moves in. T() the team -·good job this weekend. Keep an eye out for \The Hitchcr\. 4 x: 400 - Your amazing, Nice race. Sandy, Freshman connection will strike again. Ca-n I ha-ve a coo-kie ple-ase1 . Meg, Y()u're a great roomie! Baths, Sat-night live? G & R Keep an eye out for those penguins. Thanks for the ~Upport and talkls. To my old roomie (West 420, in case you forgot!) - Have a great break and a happy birthday when you return (or m;a11y happy returns, as they say!) G() to Bath!!! Gc to Bath! !! Gc to Bath! ! ! Love, LM. AJ\d to anyone else who helped out on my night from bell, I thaJ\k you- I surYived. Alison- Where did you learn to drink or J>Clur? Sherri, Is it cupcake, shortcake, or the C.aJifotnia meatball? No. 54 yet maybe next time. D.a11ielle, From me to you, congratulations on finishing thee big thesis. Love, Hola Woman. So now you know my name is not Karen. I thought you'd find out sooner or later. Thank you, Alex.. By the way that's Alex. with an X. CONCORDJENSIS lv.larvh 9, 1989 .Ein Prosit den Union Studerter! Schmeckt das arnerikanische Bier? Jermany. Lynne, Where did you say Wendy's was? Keep your eye out for a rabbit which sounds like an elephant. Phil, Thanks for the couch, the .toothl::>rush, and the bucket. T !!lf)We you one! Emily. L. Your \lis.t\ keeps getting longer! It's u0t fair. Mayhe I should go for those young ones. H. Ricer, Brandywine at Zarn is a real treat, huh? Like all those ·sexy men? Next time you call security, please give your own. name! Peter, Peter, Marty, Michael. Art, Smitty, Jeff, We're going to ·miss you gays! Aufwiedersehen! The Apartment Wenches. Ei, Have a great break! Here's to an amazing spring term Priorities ... fun, friends, smiles & bruises! Love ya'! Kath. Katie, .· Hippy 21st- March 22nd! Have a blast in Florida. and I'll sec you 1st week back! Kath. Ing, Have an amazing cruise! Send a Quinby home for me! (P.S. - Happy Birthday a little early!) • Lovey~!~th. Sheri. I owe you many! Just remember pay back is a \' · * well you know, l'll g.et you back! · Alis<>n. To our no-longer -.pathetic .Pi Alph's- We love you! ITB,.Eva, Anna & Mary. Greetings from Mexico where life , is a Beac·h! Good Luck shovelling your way to finals! Love, The Mexico Term Abroad. LZ, Happy 1 year Food- Poisoning Anniversary!! I never thougllt being so sick could be so funny! I hear Petia's is known for their lasagna!! :..KC .. Tiff & Britt. Holy Cow (ElF) only 9 days to go!! I've got the hairspray, hail_ dryer and wheat thins!! Wh<>'s bringing the soap?? Don't forget our 1 a.m. curfew and the photo rule!! Love, Caprice. Dimples, Jake and Elwood told me tllat green balloons are the same - and lhat we better study integration by body parts because it's on the finaL No more friendly Sundays. \The \F.PM\ ';q;. The Lady T:racksters! Well, it was a dirty job but someone had to make a fool of themselves, glad I could oblige. -You Know Who. Killer B, Should have taken the keys from the door - that way we could steal ketchup and cockroaches. \D. B. To Mr. & Mrs. birtban: Parent•s Weekend~ an option for brunch at Ruby's Diner with the Kaplan family. IT'S IN THE WOK!!! THE MOUSE IS IN THE WOK!H To the Sisters and .Pledges of Gamma Phi Beta, Greetings from Mexico. Life is a Fiesta here. I'm having an awesome time and I'm super tan. Looking forward to seeing you all soon. · Love in PKE, Cheryl. Dear Darren, Just for the record I really am going to miss you n~xt term. But you're going to miss me more. Have a great time! Love Always, Ellen. Coacli Delventhal - Congratulations on an excellent rookie season at Union! Good Luck this weekend! Your Fans in the Box Office. SHEENA of the Jungle, I'll miss you more than you know. -An Admirer. Brand, When- · it rains it p.ours ..• weatherman predicts typhoons next term. To Everyone at SDT, · Thank you £Q; ·much for the flowers, they really cheered me up! Suzy-Q Sozy-Q, You're more than welcome!! With lovet the Hou~. Jav~ Wine, women and song for spring term. Okay, maybe just the Yankees and alot of fishing. z. Robby D~ It's been a lonely {in a friendship sense) term. Movie, maybe spring term!!?? Stanley, . I~ this an option?? .. J'll miss you tons. Gladys. Squirrel~ · Bleiben Sie zu Hause, bitte Mark P.S. Just kidding Okay Cathy Lynn, No more stressing!! It's been a long term and it can only get better. I heart you!! So does Ping-Ping. Kim, May I escort you to the BRD. Is late March good for you? You can make me cookies in return. ~M·. CAMJ>.US NEWS Desperately seeking the Sigm~ Delta Tau composite! Return· it. .. please. Dirt, . We'll miss you but we'll have more: ,coffee~ food, peanut · butter, clothes in the closet and definitely more sleep._ · Killer and Moles. Holly, Kathy, Fran& Jenn, Get psyched for Florida! 10 days and.counting! , Love Jocelyn (Peanut). Adam·, Rod, & Jeff: Thanks for breakfast at Ruby's. Definitely worth _being dra.gged out of bed. at 9:30 a.m.:! Wake us whenever you need breakfast partners. Holly & Jocelyn. Dirt. · You're here one term and gone the next! You are (were) 1 can't make up my mind, the bestest roommate ever. ~Gladys. Jen,. Dutc·hmen'.s Night, fishing,· help with physics ... we·re so goodtQ you! Box 1632, I Love You. Jen, M &J. Please don't buril down our house next term!!! -Carolyn, Helen & Nanc. ABS; I ~ove Ya' :Babe. 10 days? I'll miss you .. -LL. Zim, You owe $10.00 for the personals. We're billing you. Lina. BMS, HA Ha ~- I won't tell your secret if you don't tell minel -LL. SDT Pledglings, Have fun over break but don't forget your pins! -The House. ML, Y ou!re the bestest roommate ever,.. goOd luck on finals. . ·LL. SDT get out your Ben~n:.ierry's hat Curt is coming! Curt Nassau is coming! Curt Nassau is .coming! D.U. Beware!! In full-fledged exhibitionist s~yle, these following personals are finally in:. Responses to the prolific pers<>11als of past for my truest- friend and .corifidant. An acco11nt of this term - (\we hold no preten.sions but are · ]>retentious nonetheless\). Modern _dat·s Buddy Holly: dreamboat or not a dreamboat? Guess what, no dinner ·.., it'~ Monday. By the way, you don't get a 's1eepover'from too much sleep ... those people on crack!· l,Jnderstand?!? (I quit, I :give up ... ) . \It;s a heathen creed so your grandma says but better to live byk .. drink it aU in bef{)re it's dry. ·II ... Most triumphant, one t.erm to go before \a cellophane encased display of paper certificate, .. · another christening, Marymeg, There's one everywhere_ ... Wiltiams ... Price Cho;pper ... and, yes, Union .. P;'M ... I miss you already. Wanda, Phyllis,. and their KeeiJ&, Be careful in the asylum. I'm goittg to miss you next term. Try .and see if you can make a friend. O.K. Heck will il()t. be the same! Rhonda. Congratulations Skating Dutcbrnenl!l Let's show BabSon what Union Hoc:key, is made of! Good Luck! · Over Spring Break Please w·rite short stories, plays, poems and funny postcards for th.e Spring_ Edition of THE IDOL Send to Box 1116

: ' . CONCORDIENSIS March 9, 1'989 Page 15 By SGO'l'T ADAMS · A-ssociate- Sports Editor Sophomore forward Elgin R.h'odes, who turned in cons is tantly s:t·ron.g performances this basektbdl season but was never ·awarded the ·\Athlete of the Week 11 honor? gets it tl:lis week for his play throughout the season. Elgin led ·the Dutchmen in total points scored (380) :,md · total rebounds (199) tbi$ · season and was right bebind senior standout Doug Gregory in averages for both of those categories. After av~ragingjust 1,6 points and 1 ;6 rebounds in 11 'games for the varsity team. last- year, Elgin elevated · his game this season; his 15.6 and 8.0 :averages were an important part of the young team's success. · What was particularly impressive abo~t E1gin.'s performance was his consistency. \The main goal .. \' . .: ~ Elgin Rhodes Honored For A Grea.t Season · for me from the begining to the end of the season;n he ~d. \was to be consiste-nt and to contribute.\ Last week, ~lgin turned in ag~inst a tough Albany State squad on Saturday, he scored 16.· rn reflecting about this se!lSOn, Elgin said of the team's play, \It was a season of ups and downs for us. We played well, but had· to overcome the unfortunate death of Dylan Kelley and several injuries.\ Of his play he said, ,;I was happy with it, but I can do better. I\d like to improve on my outside shooting and increase my physical strength;\ At 6'5\ and 185 pounds. Elgin is quite thin, and he believes that if he added some size and strength, getting .into § foul trouble would be less of a · iE problem. . ~ With four of five starters !Elgin Rhodes two fine performan.ces. In the· fimil regular season game against Skidmore. b~ had 23 points, and in the Dutchmen ECAC . Tournament loss u: returning, next year's team should prove to be an exciting one, especially if Elgin continues to improve, and he looks forward to the challenge. Congratulations to Elgin for a very successful season! . -.~~,...~ ... ~~ ...... ~._ .. _o,£.J.-., ..... ~ .. t. ' ~; ' .. ; . ·the lacro$se season is rapidly approachil'lg by Berke Breathed r--~~-\\=~--. SPORTS Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER The saving grace was cllosen on a .hot afternoon last J1.1ne in New York's Felt Forum. He lived in Harlem and attended Harry Truman High Schoe>l in the Bronx. He is a true New Yorker. \With the 19th pick, the New York ·Knicks select Rodney Strickland of :DePauL\ These were the words uttered by NBA Commissie>ner David Stem, much to the dismay of the fans who packed Madison Square Garden's smaller side arena, who wanted the K.nicks to draft another local,_ Shelton Jones of St. John's. Al Bianchi (the G.M.) and Dick McGuite (the chief scout), thanks-. you guys saved this season, as well as the future. Point guard Mark Jackson is out indefinitely due to a knee injury. If one considers Patrick F.wing the Knicks' . body, J..t.ckson is the heart. 'Action' runs the team and keeps it going with his great ability and strong desire. But without . Jackson the Knicks now need a pacemaker and in Rod Strickland, they have discovered a gold one. He can shoot, pass, drive to the hoop, and score with ·the best of them-- in his 14.7 minutes per game, he averages 8. 7 points, which is almost 29 points in a full game. But Strickland proved in college ~ that he could be a top-11otch r\.ffiA player, although his bad relationship with DePaul C()ach ,Joey Meyer had him labeled as a malcontent and trouble maker. Those who knew him, however, were not worried about Strickland's attitude or work ethic. He was just misunderstood in Chicago-~ the only thing about DePaul that Strickland did not like was the work, the school work. How many guys, especially first round draft choices, do not complain about playing under 15 minutes a night? You would need a calculator and a masters in calculus to figure it ot:It. But Strickland is not one of the complainers-- he just waited for his time to come. He sat, and watched, and learned. He knew he had the talent. It was just a matter of the opportunity popping up. And now that Jackson's knee has popped {he has torn cartilage), Stickland's time has come. In his first NBA start, he played 41 minutes, a feat his coach. Rick Pitino, was bight y impressed with because there. were doubts about Strickland's conditioning and stamina. Not any longer. Against the Chicago Bulls, there were career highs across the board for the Pace~rnaker: 41 minutes, 20 points, 124 assists, and 5 steals. There was also a 122-104 victoy for the Knicks, who extended their horne winning streak to 22 games, a team record and 9 short of the league single seasen record. Way to go, Rodney,not bad for a rookie. The ultimate compliment came from the NBA's best player and scoring leader, \IL's a luxury when you can lose a player like (Mark) Jackson and bring in a player like (Rod) Strickland.\ said Michael Jordan. Without Strickland, this season might have been lost. But we can all breathe easily now knowing that our hear:t is still beating regularly. Scott Manley By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor Senior hockey captain Scott Manley has been one of tile forces behind Union's defense over the past four years. Scott, affectionately known as \Jelly\, was a four year starter for Union. This season, Manley had 3 goals and 11 assists to boost his career statistics to 15 goals and 33 assists. Manley took a _g~eat deal of pressure off goalie Ron Kinghorn with his aggressive defensive play. Against Hamilton in the semi-final round of the playoffs, Scott had a devastating hit on one of the Continental players which freed up the puck and allowed Union to score the winning goal. The Dutchmen will gteatly miss - the leadership and playing abilities of their captain next season. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS •vt\

'sol• The Dutch men Skaters will take on a talented Babson squad this weekend. Union lost to Al;bany $tate ln th'e playoUs. Abo:ve. Scott. Gibbs 'goes for the. rebound. March 9, 1'989 Again, Union Stopped by RIT Dutchmen ,Host B11bson In NCAA's This Weekend By ANDREW SEEWALD In .the past, Union and RIT have had some classic battles. The series dates back 00 1983- 84 and, after Saturday night, 9 of the team's 13 meetings have come in playoff competition. RIT won ECA.C titles in 1984 and 1986 and both times the road to the championship went right through Union. In 1985, Union captured the ECAC title by defeating RlT 7-3. The rivals squared off again at Ritter arena on Saturday night, and again the game would decide the ECAC West championship. When Tim Regan of the Tigers tied the game at 3-3 at 8: 11 of the third period., it appeared that the teams might play their fourth overtime game in series history. Last year, RIT beat Union 5-4 in double overtime in the first round of the ECAC's. The game remained tied until Tim Cordick put the Tigers ahead for good with a powerplay goal at 15:19 of.the third period. RIT went on to win 5-3. At one point, Union led 3-0 when the Dutchmen exploded for 3 goals in a 1:36 .span midway through the first period. After that, a host oJ Union penalties allowed the Tigers Lo roar back. \The heartbreak is to come that close to being able to take the whole thing and not really feel that they beat you but that somehow you inflicted the pain upon yourself a 1 ittle bit,\ said Union coach Bruce Deventhal. \That's the hard part to take.\ Union had taken their lead when freshman center Craig Ferrero drove a hard slapshot past RIT goal tender Fred Abraham at the 11:12 mark of the Tirst period. Fifty seconds later, junior left wing Guy Logan buried the rebound of a Ferrero shot into the unguarded net and Union led 2- 0. Then, to conclude a furious span, sophomore Terry Campbell scored off another rebound and the Dutchmen led 3~0. Incredibly, through a combination of Union penalties and RIT's ferocity and tenaciousness, the Dutchmen scoring column would end right there. . Less than a minute and a half after Campbell's goal, Ken Moran scored on a powerplay to set the Tigers on the board. Clearly. the momentum had shifted. Union goaltender Ron Kinghorn did all he could to try to preserve the Dlltchmenlead. In the second period, Kinghorn faced a barrage of 14 shots, plus he had to react to countless others that were blocked by the defense. Yet he permitted onfY Scott Brown's goal four minutes into the period, again on the powerplay. \In my mind, the· MVP of that game was Ron Kinghorn,\ said Delventhal. \I realize that .people that pick those type of awards tend to go with the winni'ng club, but without Ron Kinghorn, we're in a lot of trouble. Ronnie had a tremendous game.\ Moran was presented with the Most Valuable Player of the tournament award. In addition to scoring RIT's first goal of the night, he scored their last to provide insurance. Despite being dominated for the last two periods, Union did have some great scoring opportunities. The play of the game might have been turned in by Cordick when, late in the second period, he stopped a Union shot at the last possible moment while Abraham was caught out of position. \I think Cordick might have saved the game,\ sa,id . DelventhaL \Timmy made a terrific play to keep them in the game.\ Had Union scored, they would have led 4-2 heading into the third period. Although it was a hearatbrcaking loss, Delventhal said that it ·was a positive experience. \We're going to learn from it. I said to the guys afterward in the locker room that I wanted them to remember how they felt, because that's going to be a real motivating factor for us down the road. Someday, we will make due on how we felt,\ said Delventhal. The Dutchmen are back in action tomorrow night at Achilles Rink for the first round of the NCAA's. Babson will be in town for a two game series Friday and Saturday night at 7:3'0. If the two games are split, a 10 minute mini~ game will be played at the conclusion of Saturday's game to decide the series. In the other series in the East bracket, RIT hosts Oswego. Last Sunday night, before the pairings were announced, Delventhal indicated that he would like to face Babson who beat Union 4-3 in overtime at Achilles earlier this year. The . · Beavers are 18~8 on the season. \I think ~he Union team wouldn't mind seeing Babson again,\ said Delventhal. \They're a team that we had a real good game with. Sometimes if you have another crack at a team, you can play them a 1i ttle better.\ After last Saturday's game, the Dutchmen certainly have to be hOping for another crack at RIT. Tickets for this weekend's Hockey Game are being sold at Achilles Rink -A Weekend Pass for Both Games is $8.00- M. en's 8-ball Ends . .. Season At Albany Loses in First Round Of ECAC Tounrament Ry SCOTT ADAMS Ass()ciate Sp~rts Editor The Dutchmen hoopsters closed 011t an up ... and-down season with a 74~60 loss at Albany State in the first round of the ECAC. Tournament on Saturday and with it bid farewell to seniors Doug \Diego \Fresh... Gregory, Scott \Th~ Riddler\ Gibbs and Joe \Boobie\ Scott. Playing without Gregory, Who missed the last two games with a broken foot, the Playing without Gregory, who missed the last two games with a b r o ke.n · foot, the Dutchmen bad a bad night shooting and never cont-rolled the tempo of . the game. Dutchmen had a bad night shooting and never controlled tile tempo of the game. After jumping outto a 21-14 lead with 9 minutes left in the first half, the Dutchmen squandered it away by shooting 37% from the field and were down -33~29 when the first buzzer sounded .. For the game, Elgin Rhodes and Alex Nestor turned in solid performances with 16 points each, but it was not not enough. Five Union guards combined to shoot a dismal 3 for 27 from the field. Though this was a sour way for the Dutchmen to end the season, the 198&·89 campaign was a highly successful one for them. They ended the regular season last Tue.sday with an 80.-68 victory O\Ver Skidmore that was their folll'th in a row and made their final regular season record' 14~10. This computes to a .580 winning percentage, the highest of the season for the DuW,hmen. The young team showed more and more character as the season progr.essed, overcoming the tragic loss of Dylan Kelley berfore the season began and injuries to Elgin:, Doug and Paul Brindle durirrg it. Looking ahead to next year, the team should be even tougher. Doug will be the only starter not rettJrning and the jayvee squad has several talented players tbat could step in and contribute. The young team showed more and more character as the seaS:Oll progressed, :Overcoming the tragic loss of Dylan Kelley · In conclusion, we should all thank Diego, th~ Riddler and Boobie for fotJr years of hard work. Thanks for the memories, guys, and good luck in the big pick -up games of life. · GOOD LUCK UNION . 7n The NCAA Playoffs! Beat, Buck and.Bludgeon some Babson BZftt!!!!l . i

I.L \' <t: l- en En § :::c 0... The Dutchmen Skaters wiill take on a talented Babson squad this weekend. Union lost to Albany State in the playoffs. Above. Scott Gibbs ·goes for the rebound. March 9, 1989 Again, Union Stopped by RIT Dutchmen Host Babson In NCAA's This Weekend By ANDREW SEEWALD In the past, Union and RIT have had some classic battles. The series dates back to 1983- 84 and, after Saturday night, 9 of the team's 13 meetings have come in playoff competition. RIT won ECAC titles in 1984 and 1986 and both times the road to the championship went right through UHion. In 1985, Union captured the ECAC title by defeating RIT 7-3. The rivals squared off again at Ritter arena on Saturday night, and again the game would decide the ECAC West champ ions hip. When Tim Regan of the Tigers tied the game at 3-3 at 8: 11 of the third period, it appeared that the teams might play their fourth overtime game in series history. Last year, RIT beat Union 5-4 in double overtime in the first round of the ECAC's. The game remained tied until Tim Cordick put the Tigers ahead for good with a powerp lay goal at 15: 19 of the third period. RIT went on to win 5-3. At one point, Union led 3-0 when the Dutchmen exploded for 3 goals in a 1:36 span midway through the first period. After that, a host of Union penalties allowed the Tigers to roar back. \The heartbreak is to come that close to being able to take the whole thing and not really feel that they beat you but that sonKhow you innicted the pain upon ytntrsclf a little hit,\ said Union coach Bruce Deventhal. \That\ the hard part to take.\ Union had taken their lead when freshman center Craig Ferrero drove a hard slapshot past RIT goaltender Fred A braham at the I 1: 12 mark of the first period. Fifty seconds later, junior left wing Guy Logan buried the rebound of a Ferrero shot in1o the unguarded net and Union led 2- 0. Then, to conclude a furious span, sophomore Terry Campbell scored off another rebound and the Dutchmen led 3-0. Incredibly, through a combination of Union penalties and RIT's ferocity and tenaciousness, the Dutchmen scoring column would end right there. Less than a minute and a half after Campbell's goal, Ken Moran scored on a powerplay to set the Tigers on the board. Clearly, the momentum had shifted. Union goaltender Ron Kinghorn did all he could to try to preserve the Dutchmen lead. In the second period, Kinghorn faced a barrage of 14 shots, plus he had to react to countless others that were blocked by the defense. Yet he permitted ani)' Scott Brown's goal four minutes into the period, again on the powcrplay. \In my mind, the MVP of that game was Ron Kinghorn,\ said Delventhal. \I realize that people that pick those type of awards tend to go with the winning club, but witho1:1t Ron Kinghorn, we're in a lot of trouble. Ronnie had a tremendous game.\ Moran was prescn ted with the Most Valuable Player of the tournament award. In addition to scoring RIT's first goal of the night, he scored their last to provide insurance. Despite being dominated for the last two periods, Union did have some great scoring opportunities. The play of the game might have been turned in by Cordick when, late in the second period, he stopped a Union shot at the last possible moment while Abraham was caught out of position. \I think Cordick might have saved the game,\ said Delvcnthal. \Timmy made a terrific play to keep them in the game.\ Had Union scored, they would have led 4-2 headiNg into the third period. Although it was a hearatbrcaking loss, Delventhal said that it was a positive experience. \We're going to learn from it. I said to the guys afterward in the locker room that l wanted them to remember how they felt, because that's going to be a real motivating factor for us down the road. Someday, we will make due on how we felt,\ said Dclventhal. The Dutchmen are back in action tomorrow night at Achilles Rink for the first round of the NCAA's. Babson will be in town for a two game series Friday and Saturday night at 7:30. If the two games are split, a 10 minute mini- game will be played at Lhe conclusion of Saturday's game to decide the series. In the other series in the East bracket, RIT hosts Oswego. Last Sunday night, before the pairings were announced, Delventhal indicated that he would like to face Babson who beat Union 4-3 in overtime at Achilles earlier this year. The Beavers arc 18-8 on the season. \I lhink the Union team wouldn't mind seeing Babson again,\ said Dclventhal. \They're a team that we had a real good game with. Sometimes if you have another crack at a team, you can play them a little better.\ After last Saturday's game, the Dutchmen certainly have to be hoping for another crack at RIT. Tickets for this weekend's Hockey Game are being sold at Achilles Rink -A Weekend Pass for Both Games is $8.00- Men's 8-ball Ends Season At Albany Loses in First Round Of ECAC Tounrament By SCOTT ADAMS Associate Sports Editor The Dutchmen hoopsters closed out an up-and-down season with a 74-60 loss at Albany State in the first round of the ECAC Tournament on Saturday and with it bid farewell to seniors Doug \Diego \Fresh\ Gregory, Scott \The Riddler\ Gibbs and Joe \Boobie\ Scott. Playing without Gregory, who missed the last two games with a broken foot, the Playing without Gregory, who missed the last two games with a broken foot, the Dutchmen had a bad night shooting and never control:led the tempo of the game. Dutchmen had a bad night shooting and never controlled the tempo of the game. After jumping out to a 21-14 lead with 9 minutes left in the first half, the Dutchmen squandered it away by shooting 37% from the field and were down 33-29 when the first buzzer sounded. For the game, Elgin Rhodes and Alex Nestor turned in solid performances with 16 points each, but it was not not enough. Five Union guards combined to shoot a dismal 3 for 27 from the field. Thmtgh this was a sour way for the Dutchmen to end the season, the 1988-89 campaign was a highly successful one for them. They ended the regular season last Tuesday with an 80-68 victory over Skidmore that was their fourth in a row and made their final regular season record 14~10. This computes to a .580 winning percentage, the highest of the season for the Dutchmen. The young team showed more and more character as the season progressed, overcoming the tragic loss of Dylan Kelley berfore the season began and injuries to Elgin, Doug and Paul Brindle during it. Looking ahead to next year, the team should be even tougher. Doug will be the only starter not returning and the jayvee squad has several talented players that could step in and contribute. The young team showed more and more character as the season progressed, overcoming the tragic loss of Dylan Kelley In conclusion, we should all thank Diego, the Riddler and Boobie for four years of hard work. Thanks for the memories, guys, and good luck in the big pick-up games of life. GOOD LUCK UNION . zn The NCAA Playoffs! Beat, Buck and.Bludgeon some Babson Butt!!!!!

