·Vol. CXIX, No .. 15 Schenectady, New York Beta Theta Pi's house Will be vacated on Beta Theta Pi To Lose House At End of Spring Term By MAT1' LANNI On February 20 the Office of Residence Life sent a letter to Beta Theta Pi formalizing the administration's decision to \terminate the housing lease between Beta Theta Pi and the College as of June 17, 1990.\ The letter further states that the decision was based on \the integrity of the building's physical structure and the inherent obligation of the College to provid~Z residential areas which are cornfottable, safe, secure, and meet minimal standards of fire safety codes and building laws.\ According to Di!ector of Campus Operations Thomas Smyth, there is a list of structural problems with the house that need to be assessed and repaired. At the top of the list are problems with the supports and steps of the front and back porches. A complete assessment and repair of the interior structure needs to be done of the floors, the ceilings. the chimney, and the interior stairway. Throughout the inside of the house many · doors, windows, and door jams must be replaced. Also, many holes fo11nd in the wa:tls need to be patched, taped, an<t The a!lminsitrati()n has decided to termin2te the housing lease between Beta Theta Pi and the College as of Jllne 17, 1990. painted. On the outside of the building, the roof neecls to be repaired. and the College is presently planning to fix the fire escape within the next ten days. Certain electrical problems with the heating system and the fire alarm system need improvement. Smyth concluded his list with less important problems such as plumbing fixtures, :potholes and cmcks in the pavement, and the general landscape. \It is simply -a matter of funding.\ commented Dean Alford, Assistant Dean of Students. \The College is faced with a decision of making major repairs at significant expense or discontinLJing the use of Maxcy House as a residence facility.\ Dean Alford continued to say that the · College needs a more detailed account of the repairs needed in order to make a more- informed decision. \We .are getting thrown off for something that is not our · fault,\ comtnented John Torpie, alumni secretary of Beta Tlleta Pi. \We have not broken any rule.s.\ Torpie supported this by saying that if a brother brealcs .something, the individual or the fraternity Continued on Page 3 Winter Budget ~Deadlines Are Set By MARK RICHTER The following information is of particular interest. to the officers and (active) members of student activity clubs, and orgarizations: 1. Don't forget that status reports shoul-d be completed and returned to the Student Activities Office or your finance representative's mailbox NO LATER THAN MONDAY, MARCH 5,. If reports aren't returned by this date, then your club's account will be frozen. 2. If your club/organization is planning to withdraw money from its account, you should expect it to take roughly a week for the check to be processed--cash is no longer going to be used if it can be avoided. Clubs .should act accordingly by planning ahead and informing their representatives well in advance · of upcoming purchases so that the money will be available. · One final note to keep in mind is that there will be no transactions processed after the end of May--this is to avoid outstanding bills into the summer. 3. Clubs that have an income category in their budget · MUST be sure that they meet • this figure because failure to do · so is comparable to . overspending from the perspective that it is spending money that it doesn't have. . Therefore, it is very important that clubs meet with their representatives to get an update on their current status as soon as possible so that potential problems can be avoided. 4. The committee strongly encourages clubs that have the potential to go over-budget to FUND-RAISE. Clubs that overspend will not be looked upon favorably in the Spring during budgeting. The deficit is everyone's problem and because · of this it is important that we work together to resolve it. If you have any questions, contact your finance- representative or Mark Richter (VP for Finance} through the • Student Activities Office. March 1, 1990 Housing Debate Heats Up Freshmen Moved Up Campus By TOM ANDRUCHOW At approximately 4:45P.M. on Tuesday, February 27 Dean Wood made the following announcement to Concordiensis: the Office of Residence Life has decided to make centrally located housing more accessible to all upperclassmen. In general, housing for upperclassmen will be concentrated down .campus and housing for incoming freshmen will be broadened in Hickok. Potter South. More co-ed housing will be reserved for upperclassmen in North College. Also, if more incoming freshmen expressed a desire to live in a Living and Learning Center such as Hickok House, more may be designated for them up campus. The specific changes are: Potter South will be co-ed and all freshmen, North College will become co-ed; first floor all women; floors 2, 3, and 4 co-ed, the number of suites available for the upcoming sophomore class will increase from 30 suites to 33 suites, 20 suites will be reserved for juniors and seniors, Smith House will remain co-ed, co-op, and sophomores will continue to have first pick of the suites; then juniqrs and seniors will select from the 20 reseryed suites. These changes come as a response to the increasing w demand by upperclassmen for amenable on-campus housing. They have complained that in order to remain on campus they must live in singles, separated from their classmates. These changes of reallocating suite housing for the upperclassmen in Fox and Davidson will put the freshmen in the minority in these buildings, which will dramatically ·change the atmosphere.· There is also an attempt to create more equity in housing as more women have access to singles and kitchen facilities. Even thou.gh most North is switching from all female to co-ed, this will not have any diminishing effect on the arnou.nt of rooms available to women. The rooms in North normally occupied by women will be offset by the giving of singles on co-ed floors to women which were previously reserved for men. Many students have questioned this because increasingly placing freshmen up campus (:Hickok and Potter) could polarize the freshmen from the upperclassmen. However, when questioned, Dean Wood thought that this would not lJe the case, only that the flavor of life would become quieter and more upperclassmen-like in Fox and Davidson. Photo of the Week: In a furious rush, the Skating Dutchmen tried desperately to tie up the game on Tuesday, but to no avail, as it ended 5·4 Mercyhurst.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, l,t1artJt 1,.1990 (!Innror}trnsts NEWS ANAL:YSIS B;,r J()HN ZIPPERER St!Udents returning to school this past fall at the University of Wisconsin received a disturbing lesson from their teachers. In response to numerous incidents of racial misconduct in recent years, the unil.'ersity administration insui tuted a ban on speech that \crc~ted a hostile environment\ for other students. The administration claimed that raci:.sm had grown to such proportions that it demanded immediate and drastic action-- even if this involved the extraordinary step of restricting speech. Interestingly, in the first semester in which the uni \' crsi ty was armed \.Vith such a strong weapon against racism, UW officials failed to use it. Unfortunately for the school, however, the mere presence of a rule banning racially offensive sppech Tongue Tied: Restricitng Ra,cia:l Speech On Campus creates \a hostile environment\ for the teachers and·students within it, and ultimately makes the problem of racism worse. Attempting to deal with the problem of racism on our college campuses by restricting free speech is destined to fail; most of what we value will be destroyed in the process, while racism will inevitably survive. And yet at the Universities of Pennsylvania, Berkeley, and Michigan, administrators have adopted bans on racial speech Most rules also ban insults based on a person's age, sex, religion, sexual orientation, handicap and veteran status. similar to the one in place at Wisconsin-- and many other colleges and universities are considering adopting such rules soon. Almost uniformly these rules prohibit students from making derogatory comments about another student's race. While most rules also ban insults based on a person's age, sex, religion, sexual orientation, handicap, and veteran status, the rules' main focus is racism. Penalties for violation include a reprimand, \sensitivity reeducation'', and expulsion from school. Even those who would never offend another person will still suffer from the mere pres.cncc of racial speech · rules. They will find themselves getting an incomplete education as their professors avoid harassment by wat~ring down controversial subjects or avoiding them altogether. The reality is that in order to teach, sometimes one must offend. And in order to learn, sometimes one must be offended. By attempting to teach history without dealing with Ortega Down But on April 25. As a recently returned short term delegate of the WJ.tness For· Peace Program, a faith-based organization that has monitored U.S. policy towards Nicaragua since 1983, I stand by their statement given on Monday, February 26 from its national headquarters in Washington, DC: Not Out By CARL DICKSON In response to the clear upset by Violeta Chamorro -and Lhe UNO coalition in Sunday's Nicaraguan election, where The DaiJy Gazette reports 82% of precincts reporting, this opposition party won 55% to 40% over Daniel Ortega and the FSLN (the Sandinista party) across the board including the national assembly, municipal councils, and mayors. President Ortega has promised to respect the results and hand over that position at the scheduled time \The Nicaraguan election was free, fair, and democratic. The citizens of Nicaragua: and the Sandinista-Ied government should be praised for elections that set new ~nd higher standards for Central American democracy. Now· that the election is over and the process has been declared free and fair by hundreds of international The Philosophy Department announces the competition for essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Celia Glaubach Prize, - awarded 1o a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of the Bible from a secular point of view by submitting a work on one of the foUowing subjects: literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the Bible; Biblical archaeology; Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. The Milton -Hymes Sternfeld 'Prize - awarded for the best original essay in philosophy by a me.mber of the senior class. Entries for either prize competion should be ,submitted pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden, Humanities 215, not later than 12:00 noon racially offensive material, we may c:r:eate a situation in which, perversely, ~se .same racigJ beliefs we are fighting are able to find a recep~i ve audienc. For example, when teaching about slavery or the Holocaust, students must get an understanding of how millions of people could believe in the racist ideologies behind sudh events. Professors will find it easier to just exclude any material., such as Nazi speeches or slave owners' defenses of slavery. than to go head to head with the institutionalized intolerance . creatd by racial speech rules. By creating an environment If racial comments are barred fr;()m college conversations, they will still be freely used in 'the private conversations between fellow racists. that limits the material a professor may use in teaching, we thus face the danger of producing a generation of students who are so poorly educated about history that they threaten to repeat its worst nightmares through, a combination of ignorance and moral arrogance. Most of u.s would feel very uncomfortable being forced underground because of our beliefs, but racism actually flourishes ill the dark recesses of our society. If racial comments are barred from observers, we call on the U.S. to respect the choice Of the Nicaraguan people and begin immediately to restore-normal state-tO-sta~e relations with Nicaragua. WFP hopes and prays that yesterday's elections will bring calm reconciliation and an enclto the U.S. funded violence tllat has ravished Nicaragua for so long. It is an unfortunate fact that the U.S. government effectively created the issues that set the terms for Nicaragua·s election debate. The main issues of both major campaigns were the economic collapse·, caused in large part by the U.S .trade embargo and the U.S. funded Contra war. We call 011 our government to at least respect t.he Central .college conversations, they will still be freely used in the ·priviate con-versations between fellew racists, ~Y replanting racism in its most fertile soU, the nici:al speec.h rules spreading across American campuses wiU prove worse than ineffectual; they will prove counterproductive. · Using universities to restrict free speeeh is. a, sad reflection of our times .. Universities act as the caretakers of' our society. transmitting and, we hope. improv-ing our values from generation to generation. In attempting to deal ith racism by expelling students who say things construed to be racist, the current generation of academic leaders are forsaking one of the most important roles ofthe university. By their punishment~ th~y force those who may be racists to dam up, and thus take ~hem out of the discussions in which their racist beliefs might be challenged and changed by other students. Curbing racist speech on our college campuses does not solve the problem pf racism, it only hides it. History, while it is still allowed to be taught, should teach us that burying our heads in the sand proves inffective in making problems disappe<rr. John Zipperer, a senior at the University of Wisconsi.n, Madison, is an editor of The Badger Herald, the nation's oldest independent student newspaper. American Peace agreements and effect the immediate demobilization of the Cqntra army. The U.S. must also end the economic and credit embargos ·that have devastated Nicaragua's economy and imposed s\lch hardship on its people. We hope the new Chamorro-led government will continue on the path of democracy,. towards reconciliation of all sectors of Nicaraguan society, and revitalize the health care, education, and agrarian reform programs which were destroyed by U.S. aggression against Nicaragua. WFP will continue to stand with the people of Nicaragua in their struggle to rebuild thelrnation.\ .. Interested in working for- Concordiensis? JOIN THE ADVERTISING STAFF Call370-6494 and leave a message I a N . re tc h: re di o: st fe IT q ir a]

Beta SPAA Contemplates :Mandala's. Re.feas·e Loses Housing Privilege ,By TRACEY PR'YLUCK a•Ild M~G ROSENBERG lteform..actually seems to be a JXlSSibility in S011th Africa. Now that Mandela has been released, the question arises as to what effect his presence will han .on the progress of the refo1111 movement. T:llis issue was a topic of discussion at SP AA' s meeting of February 26. The current stare of affairs in South Africa, fears of police suppression and minority retribution, and the question of whether the integJ:ation can ever exisf were all<liscllSsed. Ne1son Mandela was the . :leac<ler of the ANC {African National Congress) in 1962. The ANC was, andstill is, the largest anti-apartheid guerrilla .g]oup i'n Soutb Africa. :Mllndela was sentenced to life in prison for espousing the o=vert:lttow of the g()v:emment. H~ was offered release numerous times over the past 27 years on the condition that lle renounce the use of violent methods to overthrow the a.P'artheid government. Mandela's position as a heroic leader has grown with each refnsal. His recent release · si~tlifies a changing climate in S()uth Africa. Now that he is free, Mandela ha.s been focusing his efforts 011 uniting the black community. Factional fighting · Contin.ued from page 1 between llhe Inkatha, a Zulu • itself will pay for .it. political and cultural As for the f1:1ture, some Beta organization, and the United Theta Pi brothe1:s are trying to Democratic Fmnt (which . rent out apartments dose supports the ANC) has resulted together to form some sort of in the death of 2.,500 blackS home base. The fraternity is over the paqt 5 years. Mandela also drawing up plans for a is urging an end to this tribal proposal to give to the Board rivalry in o:rd.e.r .to attain . of Trustees. They are planning authentic black unity. A united on asking alumni and their black community can better national chapter to donate work for reform: money to renovate the Beta SPAA also discussed the house and work out .a plan with strength. of the police force, the College. which as spe-nt many years · · ----------- learning to suppress. rebellion · \We are getting thrown by the minorities. The police . off for something that is. forces includes many ultra•right · not our fault.\ supporters. It is uncertain . ..John Torpie whether these forces. can be controlled. · Mandela 's position as a heroic leader has grown with each refusal of · release signifies a changing c)imate in South Africa. \This is not the case of getting rid of a fraternity house,\ Alford stressed. \Many . students recognize that these arc decisions we have to make.\ There are no future plans for j the building. 'Xhen Th.ere is also concern of . · · minority retribution. If the blacks take power, w.hat will their response to the whites be? Will there be a backlash? you give blood you give another birthday, another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance It is uncertain if the blacks will ever have complete control of the government, and if indeed they do. a backlash does not appear to be politically expedient. . . . + .AlnericanRedCross • Please gi\e blood ~ SECURITY AND S.AI=ETY NOTES: ~ , ~ \\\. Page 3 Hoc-key Players Receive M-emorial Awards Two Union hockey players, junior de.fenseman Bill $edergren and sophomore . forward Tim Cregan, recently received awards. S edergren, a managerial economics majot,. was given the fixst Charles N. Morrison Memorial Aw~d between the second and third periods of Union's hockey game against • Colby College. Cregan, a Chemistry /English major, received the Thomas ,Van Arden Dukehart Award during a ceremony before the Skating Dutchmen's game against .Bowdoin College. Sedergren, who is in his third letter-winning season for · · · the Dutchmen, was the team's top~scoring defenseman during his first two campaigns. He is the frrst National Hockey League draft pick to attend Union. Cregan. a two .. year letter- winner fer the Dutchmen, tallied nine goals and two assists in 29 games last season while helping Union to a 19-8- 2 record. He has had 12 points on four goals and eight assists in 22 outings this year. · The Morrison award is an endowed scholarship created from the gifts of friends in memory of Charles N. Morrison, head hockey coach at Union froml978 to 1988, with income awarded annuaJ.ly tc students requiring financial assistance to attend Union, who participate in extracurricular activities while demonstrating academic interest and achievement. Morrison, who recruited Sedergren, died of a heart attack in 1988 while on a recruiting trip. The Dukehart award, which originated in the 19 77-78 season to preserve the memory of Thomas Van Arden Dukehart, is presented annually to. the Union hockey player wtth the highest grade-point average. Tenurability Committee Formed An ad hoc committee of the Faculty Review Board has been formed to investigate and report on the tenurability of Associate Prof. Walter Hatke of the Arts Department. . Any member of the College community who wishes to contribute to the committee's review of Hatke's teaching, · scholarly activities, and college service may submit written testimony by April 9, 1990, to any of the following members of the committee: professors Martha Huggins, sociology/anthropology, cummittee chair; Martin Benjamin. arts; Carl George, biology; and Harry Marten, English. Interviews also may be arranged through Huggins . 1· - Please be advised that there is a current telephone scam going on .in which an unidentified person calls you to advise that you ha~e won a prize but that in order for ~ou to qualify you must provide them with your credit ()ard number. This Is a scam!!! Do not give out :YOur credit card number to anyone over the telephone unless you know the person and the J)roper purpose. If you receive such a call try to obtain the callers full name and telephone number and report the - incident to the Security and Safety Office. Speak with PRESIDENT MORRIS :2- Please keep your room doors locked at all times ... (..lrever:-~t oppo~unity for a thief to make you a victim. :3·- Never walk alone at night on or off campus ... use the Buddy system or call the escort service- x-6386 (8 pm-1 <1m s- Th./8 pm-3 am F -&Sat.) 4 - Report all suspicio\,ls persons or activities immediately to the Security and Safety C1ffice x-6911. • Reported Security Incidents DME _:TIME LOCA'!'IOI'I INCIDENT 2-18 3:10 .A.II South College ~yfriertd - girlfriend dispute. R.A notified. 2-18 10:43 All Tennis courts 2·18 11:09 P.-1 West College Student fined for life Safetr vi,Olation - cooking in room. 2-19 6.:58 :?.-! Fox House Student reports theft of personal it~ .• 2-19 7~55 lN Fox llouse Velldor a~vised against entering dormt 1:or1es. . 2-ZO 12:07 .Ill! .Achilles area Group of suspicious persons. GOA. 2-20 3:09 :fl.! Fraternity Kegs reported s1:olen. 2-ZO 9:58 IN we .. ter lbuse Suspicious person. inside, QQ~. 2·21 5:54 IN South College Vanclaiism to west interior door. 2-21 8:30 •flo: Off campus Vandalism to Student Affairs van. 2-Zl 1: 30PII Fox HOuse Telephone Scam-Credit ·Cards 2-22 12:48 AN Administration Vanda~.ism to sign at offi~e. 2-22 1:10 ~ B:lwards House Vehicle overturned ii1 parking lOt. 2·22 2:17 AM College Center Unaut!!Orized entry by ·student~. 2•22 7:43 ·PJ.! Coliege Center Attempted unauthorized. use of College Center mail ineter repol'ted. 2·22 2:49 '1'!1 Undesirable reported neat loading rock. Z·23 l: 07 J/.1 Or£ campus Assisted intoxicated· student. 2·23 5:13 m fox I louse Vandalism to window in entrance dOOl\ 2-23 5:13 JV.1 IJavidsOII Vandalism to wlndow. 2-:i3 9:.40 f1t.1 nutterfield Classroom windO\'I vancljllhep. · fl-23 lO:VO· J\\1 \'lest College Suspicious pcrs\n on ~·Zl reported, 2-24 2:05 /'ll1 Fox tlorth VatodaliSI)I to window and Coke Z•Z4 3.:28 J\H Ridun:md ·machine in entry reported, Student reports Unkrtown person 2-l4 tried to gain a(cess to ro<>m. .3:40 11\f l!eckel' Circle .ana U!known person swiilg~g Cl.'\ltch at ~-24 3:41 1/1! Fox llot\Se vecple passing by. 00\, .ASsalil t of stll4ent reported, on a special edition of THE BOTTOM LINE TONIGHT Thursday, March 1st 9:00PMon WRUC89.7FM Co-Hosts . Nat Keller and Mark Richter will be taking calls at 370-6151 or 6154 throughout the show ... so CALL IN and we'll get to the BOTTOM LINE! 1\ 'I' 'J,J~N'J,I(JN: Th0 Kasner Kitchen has a (lEW CHEF~ Corr1e to the nevvly renovated K1tchen this Friday night, lV1ar-ct1 2, at 6pn1 for Sl1abbat dinner and enJoy the Gourmet Kosher ·Cuisine of ou·r nevv Kost-:-,er chef!

Page 4 CONCORDIENSI$,. March 1, 1990 FEATURES Educatiot1al Dinners Progran1 Continues At Union By DESMOND WARD is relaxing and interesting for students. They have a good meal and enjoy the entertainment in a casual atmosphere. Mountebanlts Presents Union Coll~ge Dining Services is providing a series of multicultural feasts aimed at education and social interaction The various meals extend an invitation to those who are unfamiliar with exotic and foreign dishes. Last Saturday, the program continued with an Argentinean meal being served in the Vpperclass Dining Room of the College Center. The purpose is to expose students to the vast array of cultural similarities and differences one could not usually experience .. More dinners are scheduled at 6 p.m. on Wednesdays. in the Hale House dining room. On March 7 the school will provide a continental dinner presented by Ogdens Restaurant of Albany. On March 14 a kosher Hungarian meal prepared by Chef Anton Segor of the Albany Jewish Community Center. Participants at each dinner will receive a handout containing a brief biography of the chef and/or a hist0ry of the restaurant, an overview of the culture and .cuisine, Tonight, March 2 and 3rd, Matinee March \3rd 2 p.m. N.ou Memorial Theater Box Office 370.,6153 The meal featured guest Chef Raquel Vinick, a Spanish instructor at Union and consisted of a triad of culinary influences - French, Italian, and Spanish. recipes, and often a glossary of terms. The meals are $19.95 per person for the general public. Reservations must be made 48 hours before. the events by calling Union College Dining Services at 370-6487. SCHENECTADY COUNTY PLANNER TO SPEAK AT UNION COLLEGE Frank Calabria, a retired professor of psychology at Union, and his wife, Angela, were teaching the tango at the event. This type of program . Schenectady, N.Y. - William Roehr of the Schenectady County Plannmg Department will speak on \Working in the Public Sector: 'The Good and the Bad'\ at the 3:30p.m. MBA Colloquium on Thursday, March l, in Room 312 of Bailey Hall at Union College, sponsored by the College's Graduate Management Institute. The talk is free to the public. COLLEGE OUTDOOR EMERGENCY AND COURTESY TELEPHONES The Telecommunications Office irutalled 13 outdoor courtesy telephones (identified as e ) ihJ.t provide 4-digit calling capability to any on-campus extension. They are located at: Fox North and South Entrances, Davidson North and South Entrances, South College Main Entrance, West College North and South Entrances, Webster East Side Entrance (facing DDD), Richmond Main Entrance. Hickok Southwest Entrance {facing Fieldhouse), Potter South, Southwest Entrance,Raym()ndNorth, Northwest Entrance. These phones were primarily iru>talled to: I. TO PROTECT THE SAFE!Y OF THE RESIDENCE HALL S1'UDENTS AND THEIR BELONGINGS. The college hopes that students will work toge1her to keep doors to Residence Halls closed and locked, to prevent unauthorized persons from entering and wandering through these buildi:ngs. An authorized visitor will know ~Vhich resident hall occupant he/she wants to see and be able to call the resident hall occupant for access into the huilding from the outdoor rourtesy phone. ,...... fJl <lJ X 0 ~:() OUTDOOR COURTESY & EMERGENCY PHONES ~~----------~~~~ 1-< (_? ._., t/l w 5~------------------~~~~~ g:r------------_:..,-;:--_;;:~~!'2 2. TO PROVIDE AWAY FOR PERSONS SEEKING EMERGENCY OR GENERAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE FROM VIRTUALLY ALL POiNTS ON CAMPUS. Security and Safety Officers can be called for emergency assistance, medical transportation, or to provide escort services. In iiddition -to these cutdoot courtesy phones, there are 9 OUTDOOR EMERGENCY PHONES, (identified as@) v.:hich are \hotlined\ to the Control Center Operator, located in Security. These phones provide security access for any person needing emergency help, 24 hours a day. Upon lifting the handset of the EMERdENCY PHONES the Security Office is immediately notified of the location of that phone, and will dispatch an officet to that 1ocation to assist the caller needing urgent help. The caller need not talk for help to be dispatched. These phones are located on ·the exterior walls .of: 27 North Terrace Lane, Southeast Comer of Arts Building, East side Achilles Rink near Whipple Bridge, East side Bailey Hall, Comer South Terrace Lane and South Lane, Northeast comer of Davidson House, Southwest comer of Humanities Building, Northeast comer of Social Sciences BuildinE. South side of 17 South Lane. ,g >-'.! 'g 10 ,:;.:~ - -t.rl 'lii t:;o 0 \-lt'l ·Z I() . - ,....:: \' l::t: 0 - IZ t>:: •en ,,...., ,?;;' 0. I trl 10 -x liD CJl ''-' ----------1 The Union College Grounds ! - 1< b l. tl 11 1 J1 f: ~ i a

The_ Schenectady Boys Club · STAFF The Schenectady Boys· Club. located at 400 Craige Street. is lla:ppy to receive the. many Union students and fraternities that stop by to spend time with the young children in the club. The students are usually products of low income families, and are looking for good role models to direct them in their early stages of adolescence. In the past few weeks several fraternities have expressed interest in volunteering at the Boy's Club. This past Wednesday the. Zeta Beta Tau fraternity participated in the Nmual Schenectady Boys Club Penny_ c;:arnival. Fraternity brothers ran sports events for the lclds, .such as the free throw shoot :;tnd football toss. The event was held from H a.m. to 3 p~m. with a big turnout of · boys and girls from the community. Other fraternities such as Psi Upsilon and Alpha Delta Phi have participated in serving the Schenectady .Boy:s C1ub as well. Psi Upsilon has taken trips with the students and bas hosted them as chaperones at Union's home hockey games. They have run charity ski boot sales and are currently sponsoring a pool tournament to benefit the Boys Club. Alpha Delta Phi has a long re~ord of volunteering at tfie Boys Club and is familiar with . ' '' FACT AND FICTION Ccurtesy of the Peer Relations Committee MYTH Rape is committed by crazed strangers. A woman who gets raped deserves it, especially if she agreed to go to the man's house or ride in his car. Women who don't fight back haven't-been raped. If there's no gun or knife, a woman hasn't been raped. It's not really rape iftbe victim isn't a virgin. · If a woman lets a man buy her dinner or pay for a movie or . ' drinks she owes him sex. Agreeing to kiss or neck or pet with a man means that a woman has agreed to have intercourse with him. FACT Most women are raped by \nonnal\ acquaintances. No one male or female deserves to be raped. Being in a man's · house or cat does not mean a woman has agreed to have sex with him. A woman has been raped when she is forced to have sex against her will, whetber she fights back or not. It's rape whether the rapist uses a weapon or his fists, verbal threats, drq.gs or alcohol, physical isolation, a woman's own diminshed physical or mental state, or simply the weight of his body to over come her. · Rape is rape ev.en if the woman is not a virgin, even if she willingly had sex with .the man before. No one owes sex as a payment _to anyone else, no matter how expensive the date. Everyone has the right to say \no\ to sexual .activity, regardless of what has preceeded it, and to have that \no\ respected. .. Source: I Never Called it Rape, 1988 by Robin Warshaw Taken from \Black Issues· in Higher Education. Decem:ber-'7, 1989. Columbia University . Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation The Shape of ·Two Cities: New York/Paris Special. UndergraduateProgcam A junipr year introduction 10 architecture, urban planning, and historic prest)rvation for students who have completed their sophomore year at an accredited college or university. Studehts spend the first semester iA New York a1 the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preserv<!tion and the second semester in Paris at Columbia's studio <md classroom facility in the historic Marais district. The program offers a choice of academic terms: 1. Summer. 1990 in Ne>N York artd Fall. 1990 in Paris. 2. Fall, 1990 in New York and Spring, 1991 in Paris. Applications due MarcR 15. 1990. Application forms and additional information may . be obtained from: Dean of Admissions · Graduate School of Ar-chitecture, - Plar-minQ, and Preservation 400 Avery Hall Columbia University New York, NewYork 10027 (212) 854-3510 Col~mbla LJn1versity is.an affirmative aCtion/equal oppanunity institution. FEATURES ZBT Brothers at Boys ~lub la.st week. the activities that the childen volunteer internsb.ip program at enjoy. the Boys Club. TI1e volunteers Moreover, the sociology of the Schenectady Boys Club department offers a course encourage those who would credit to those who enroll' in .a ~ like to help these children to contact one of these fraternities, or ca11 the Schenectady Boys Club. Software Costs Le:ss For Students LEESBURG, VA_ Business software costs too. much! At least for students and other members of the academic community. So, a four-year-old company is doing something about it by arranging for high- tech software publishers· to offer their PC and Macintosh . software programs to colleges, faculty members and students at bargain basement prices. CAMPUS TECllNOLOGY began operations in 1985 under the guidance of William R. Hornbeck, formerly the head of one of the technical sales divisions for WordStar International. \I saw a trend coming,·~ said Hornbeck, \which indicated that software companies would be willing to give up a little of their front- end profits in exchange for an opportunity to build brand loyalty among members of the academic community .... \After all,\ he continued, \university men and women soon become business 'leaders an.d their experiences wit!I good software in school can ·carry over to purchasing decisions at tlleir f11ture places of employment.\ Following an initial start with W ordStar word processing software. in which the :publisher agreed t() market the $495 software .prqgram to educational buyeis for just $120 througb Campus Technology. thecom}Jany soon expanded its repre-sentatio11 to ever 300 software products. \We were able to establish ourselves as ll national centralized service <:enter,\ said Hornbeck, \and w~have found ourselves in a position to recommend acaden1ic pricing to many of the strategic software publishers.\ In addition to special single unit and lab pa:ck pricing programs made available to the school purcllasi ng office, CAMPUS offers savings of between 50% a1td 80% off regular retail prices to the individual buyer. The faculty member or student provides a photocopy of their current I.D. Card along with the order to verify their current academic status. That procedure provides several hundreds of dollars in savings on contemporary software products. S orne examples include the award- winning Macintosh spreadsheet, WINGZ, which can be purchased for $99 instead of the listed $399; and, on the PC side, include WordPerfect ($495) for only $135, or SmartWare ($695) for only $179, SuperCalc5 ($495) for $95. \These are not reduced 01 restricted student versions,\ states Hornbeck. \but are the actual and complete commercial versions of each product... and at very special prices.\ A catalog of available software products is available by contacting CAMPUS TECHNOLOGY, P.O. Box 2909, Leesburg, VA 22075. or by callil\g toll-free (800) 543- 8188. The Philosophy Department announces the competition for essay prizes traditionally awarded at Prize Day: The Celia Glaubach Prize - awardEd to a student who has shown an interest in the cultural significance of' the Bible from a secular point of view by submitting a work on one o11he following subjects: literary and textual criticism of Biblical subjects; development and production of a short story or play based on the .Bible; Biblical archaeology; Biblical historicity, philosophy of the Bible. ., The Milton Hymes Sternfeld Pri:ze - awarded for the best original essay in philosophy by a member o11he senior class. · Entries for either prize competion should be submitted pseudonymously to Mrs. Marianne Snowden, Humanities 215, not later than 12:00 noon on Apri.l 2, 1990. The author's name and campus address should be enclosed i·n a separate envel.ope keyed to th,e pseudonym. WRITE FOR FEATURES Call Suzanne at 381-1660 or Des at x4305

Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS March 1 1990 - . , . ' INTERNATIONAL FEATURES -~--····.·· ....• : -, ' - ; > ' ·t. ' : ___ j - ... Reunited Germany: Reason for F. By MIKE SILJlERSTEIN Within the comim.g year, the nations of the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany) and the German Reopublic (East Germany) may cease to exist as we know them. Yet another attempt is being made to put together one single German nation, something; which has been tried time and again throughout the course ··of history, and Germany may actually become one single country, after 45 years of east- west separation. At the same time when the world has exau1ted in the downfall of repressive governments in Hungary, Poland, Czech:oslovakia, Bulgaria, and Romania, the thought that East Germany will finally join again with its democratic partner in the west seems somehow unsettling .to a lot of peopl'e. Ironically, the · twentieth century seems like it may end as it began, with one large German nation in the middle of Europe. Is it this that stirs people's feelings or is it something else which goes even deeper? For after all, ·if and when East Germany becomes absorbed with the west as one country ,aoes it reaUy have al;l that much to offer which would drastically change things? From an economic standpoint East Ge.rniany has been mismanaged in the true sense of the word. The German DEMOCRATIC 'Republic was hardly democratic as we have come to define the word in the west. And since its \birth\ as a nation in 1949, the Socialist ideals on which the GDR was founded have yielded this: factories in total disrepair without any spare machinery or parts, shops containing nothing except the · bare necessities, the most severe pollution problem in Europe (perhaps the world), outdated autobahns on which even more outdated-looking cars travel, and a nation of deceived and disheartened people who are trying to cope with the fact The New Superpower Balance of Trade Japan $77.5 billion United Germany $73.9 billion Soviet Union $3.3 bill ion United States ·$138 billion 1988 Data, CIA Handbook of Economic Statistics and U.N. Monthly Bulletin of Statis..tics that .the 'Socialist Dream' was actually a nightmare four decades long. So dres East Germany really have that much to offer whicli would make one Germany more of an economic powerhouse? Probably not. However, the - vigorous economy of West Germany with its. $80 bi:llion trade surplus and multi\nati.Onal firms such as Volksw~gen, Braun, Siemens _-, and Metallgeschaft is in a prime poSition to :;1bsorb the-defunct and imploding economy of the GDR into its own . .A reunited Germany may indeed-become a ~ - . . outdo the United States and .the Soviet Union economically, and is d1is not where power real-ly lies'? However, I don't think it's economic supetpowerdom which worries most people . ~bout a reunited Germany. To be 'blunt, it seems likely many people fear sofue inherent barbarism,. something arrogant and over-ambitious, which gave rise to some of the I don't think ,its economic superpowerdom wbic~ worries most people .about a reunited Germauy ••. Germ;tn}i. He is a former SS membel whose un-apol()getic nationali:St views stir fear of a resurgellt. \u1traright\. There are alSo tllQ:se who want to see Germ!l-n-y have its 1937 borders:,, -whi.ch include parts of Cz.ech<J~lovakia, P()land, Litbua11!a~ and France. This does n~t seem possible at all and it even appears that a reunit~ Gemi:any may remain a NATO member, so Iong_.as this a!Jf:3rlce exists.- Atempts by the Bolish government to g()t Vest Germany to ackno'iV]edge their c:urrent • ·botdeNJ, however, ·,have been met with the cold respl,)nse of \The c:pestion of borilets is sornethLng- which mttst be decided by a single German . nation, and 110t n<>W ;\ This seems .IJarticulaFly- COnfusing, Woul<tn•t the Germans pounce · on this first opportunity to say to tb.e rest of the world, \See there is nothillg to be afraid f! \ - - ·o. , ·Yet (J-ermans. know that ·reunification. m:ust be a~nieved in a wa-y which is Kobl (right) wtth GDR' Prime Minister Hans Modrow · · ackno,..;iedged by the rest of the worlcl'~ J'his concept does not sound ~rrogant, barbruic. and over-~U~~hitious at all. It is not. Hopeflllly, the generation of Gerrna11s_ which the w<>rld is now <lealing with has listened to .th~. -voice of b,istory_. 1m's come to grips with the an:xietie:s of its neighbgts and the rest of the world, and can make Jleace possible. worl<lleader economically, and in the future it seems like an economic superpower is what is going to count,' not military superpower, as we have come to know them. Just take a look at the economies of the United States and the Soviet Union, who used so much of their economic resources for military purp-()ses. Whereas West Germany and Japan built their economies from a non- militaristic foundati-on (nut that they had much of a choice, following defeat in World War II). A united Germany stands to atrocities of World W arii. Of cou_rse, jt is not right to think of a pe0:ple collectively in such a way. But the hideousness of the Holocaust is not so distant in the minds of many, and the. memory of this is enough to give even slight reservations about \Deutschland Ein Vaterland!\ Even though the. \Revolution of '89\ may actually be a genuine thing, there are those . facets of Getman society which are somewhat unnerving. There is Mr. Franz Schonhuber, currently a TV host in West As ()fie commentator for News week exjJlains, \Grall:ted_ democracy is no guarantee Qf civility or domesticity within. the Euro!)eallllouse. Nazisrn grew from a small faction into a mass movement, then into a . govern[Jlertt under the Weimar RepubJgc.. :But nothing_ in the civic llle. o.f postwar Germany justifie-s the prejudice that discerns a terrible continuity in Gennmtife.\ .. - J'S ·a. I ' I WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES [B I. Avoid the housing lottery II. Avoid RA's DiiJe T Profes ogether sors Ill. Avoid Freshmen . IV. Meet. new ~nd interesting people- frpm around the world. 8 . . Conclusion: Jom the International House.· · lihare Inter . . ~, C,ont-rac·ts fo.r INTERNATIONAL HOUS·E r. Ollse J\1 . }latJOltaJ Tog tL ()Vle N· _e •1 er · !gb-ts Laugh Together .Are Ready To Be· Signed Call 370-6834. fo.r more itJfo. -

' CONCORDIENSIS, March 1~ 1990 P:a.ge 7 INTERNATIO-NAL FEATURES This Week in the World 'My people w:Ul call y:o-ur people': East Germans crossing to the West. ' · Courtesy ef Newsweeke · \Our greatest problem is mediocrity. But that's a worldwide problem.\ · - Albanian writer Ismail Kadare, - on his country's arts and letters Courtesy of Newsweek. \We must be concerned, as a country of conscience, what it means for a nation of 250 millionpeople to choke a country of3 million people, .impose military and economic sailcttons, and then finance the opposition in the campaign; and call that Democracy. I am not sure we want to teach our child~en Democracy by that definition .. \ -The Rev. Jesse Jackson.; on US policy towards Nicaragua Courtesy of Pacifica Radio \We have shown the world an President Bush sees Germans have two ways exa-mple of civic duty, • Nical'aguan aid and to reunify. West German ' demonstrating that we improved econoillic and conservatives favor breakirtg · . Nicaraguans want to live in diplomatic relation.s as the East Germany into old states, democracy, want to live in i immediate American reaction which can vote to join Bonn, peace and, a!Jove all, that we I to the election. of Violeta while some East Germans want to live in. liberty.'' · · Chamorro as the mew President favor a negotiated merger. -Violeta Barri()s de Chamorro; of Nicaragua. President-elect ofNicaragua Courtesy of The New York Times Courtesy of The New YCJrk Times Courtesy of The New Y CJrk Times. i . ••. · · Nicatagua~s opostion Th.e South African ·leader won· the national Defense Minister told elections, sweeping to a Parliarnentthathehadordereda stunning victo-:ry (:)Ver President covert military u11it to suspend Daniel Ortega. The landslide its activities. Th:e unit was victory by Viol~ta Barrios de reported to have assassinated Chamorro apparently brings to oppon.ents of apartheid. an end a decade ofSandinista Courtesy of The New York Times rule. Courtesy of Tile New York. Times The Tokyo Stock Exchange plunged by 4.5 percent. As the Government moved to intervene, many Japanese started to blame the . steep decline on foreign. securiteis houses, particularly American ones. Courtesy of The New York Times Monday, March 5 THE lAsT lEMPTATION -OFOiRIST C C Auditorium 8:00 PM ·F-REE Discussion to ·Follow On Monday, March 5 at 8 p.m. in the CC room 406 the French Club will be presenting~ Le Mepris directed by Jean-Luc Godard and starring Brigitte Bardot and Michel Piccoli, in French , with English subtitles. AU are welcome, admission is free. International Trivia Cl1. What does OAS stand for? 02. What 2 counties border the Dead Sea? .r.J3. Who said: \Soldlers win the battles and generals get the credit?\ C.l4. What country sold the Virgin Islands to the U.S. in 1917? l:l5. Who lives at 24 Sussex Drive, Ottawa? Q6. What is the largest city in Africa'? CJ7. What's the only European country that uses schillings? Cl8. What 4 countries occupied Germany after World War II? LJ9. What country are you visiting if you land at President Duvalier Airport? a1 0. What French painter gained renown for his posters? oaJtmn-asnolnOJ. !JUaH ·o ~ !1!-eH '6 ·s·n pUB 'UO!Un l8!AOS 84l '80UtU.:J 'U!BHjg ·g B!-llS ny . L OJJ~~ '9 epeueo JO J8lSlU!W awpd S4.L ·g )jJewueo ·v uee1od-eN '£ u-epJor pue i&-eJst ·z S6lBlS ueopawy ~0 UO!lEZ!Ut:?5JQ . -~ SHlMSU'f GOOD NEvVS! Foreign language news progr(fms will be shown in tlze Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MON])AYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRlDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMA!.'l\ 3:00 PM SP ANI:SH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM 'flews programs are also transmitted from many other countries :and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lt~b for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Langr;tage Lab Technician, .X6216. LANOUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM .

. . Page 8 THE KOSHER KITCHEN has a new chefl M·arch 2 at 6 PM The KOSHER KITC.HEN will have .Shabbat dinner Coming to U:n.ion No charge for this Friday's meal SUMMER JOBS at CAMP AprD 8th 1'990 SUSS'EX Await You!~ Cabin and Speciality Counselors (male and female) needed at this 8 week, overnight, co- ed camp in the beautiful m-ountains of Northern New Jersey. Also waterfront, pioneering, and nursing jobs available. Call Gary at (718) 261-8700 or (609) 753-9?,65 BUY YOUR 1990 YEAR BOOK NOW $30 cash or check CC40B '.lh\!m~~l§ll£.~ Aii©t~if~i©i b .~~i.tntro~ lMti1©1IDIRU®1fY I ~@ID@!t'OO.ll lit@®MID~ !niD@llL®©1t!!!l!f(;. Topics to be discussed during the meeting include: - S!)ring Term Activities - Nominations for 1990 ACM Officers Lecture: \'Natural Language Understanding and POCER (Anatll.rallanguage understandingsyst>~m)\ Given by: Elliot Olschwang. Elliot is a graduate student at Union College majoring in Math and Computer Scier.ce. He will be demonstrating POCER. the natural language unde~standing system which he designed with Prof. Neal Mazur. ~!mWcdhmnl§.l · 'B,.efreshments wi{{ 6e smud ~o!M~®- Z/~ IfclMic ~~fm llllt2 Mountebanlts Presents Tonight, March 2 and 3rd, 8 pm Matinee March 3rd, 2 p.m. Nott Memorial Theater Box Office 370-6153 ' i . ' Year, Wi,n Prizes fro·m: ,;;;--~~~;;,;] The 'ttaqi& . '. Het\& ------.-~1 i i ___ · .,....,_.,.__,- PONDEROSA - and Manohar lndja lmpcirts(Wholesale) __ 163 Jay St. P.O. Box 935- Schenectady, NY 12301 . 377~7973 Fou ·R s· E. A. s·o··N·s ug *· tl : • · , • . ·. · · · · .. QIIIIUE RESTAURAJit 1 183 NOH TERRAEE SCHENECTADY N.Y. 12308 M·anhattan Exchange~ at 605 Union St. · The Canary and the Elephant New .England Fudge Co. at Jay St. Castello's Restaurant at 1487 State St. Peter Pause Restaurant on Nett St The Hosts ofTrivia-1990 Bruce Pennypacker, Nina Mehta, Kim Schaefer, Jim Bunch GOOD L:UCK!

Page 8 THE KOSHER KITCHEN has a new chefl CONCORDfENSlS, March I, 1990 . . . . ' .. .. - ' . - ' ;· .. '.\\' ' .' ' ' - ·-, March 2 at 6 PM The KOSHE'.R KITCHEN will have Shabbat dinner WILLIAM SLOANE CO'FFIN Coming to Union No charge for this Friday's meal SUMMER JOBS at CAMP A prO 8th 1990 SUSSEX Await You! Cabin and Speciality Counselors (male and female) needed at this 8 week, overnight, co- ed can1p in the beautiful mountains of Northern New Jerse-y. Also waterfront, pioneering, and nursing jobs available. Call Gary at (718) 261-8700 or (609) 753-9265 BUY YOUR 1990 YEAR BOOK NOW $30 cash or check CC408 ~~~~£.~ ~~@~~ftfi@i b ~~fril1fil~ lM[~©lltlfilfil~ Topics to be discussed during the meeting include: -Spring Term Activities - ~ominations for 1990 ACM Officers Lectun: \Natural Language Understanding and POCER ( Anat\:.J\a: :anguage understandmg systerr.) II Gi\'en by: Elliot Olschwang. E:::ot :sa grac:.:ates~~dent at Ur.:on College maJonng tn Math anc C:orr.;:.>.~er Saer-ce l-ie w1llbe de!'<'.onstratrng POCER. the natural language t:~.ce~s-:ancmg sys~em wh1ch he designed Wlth Prof Neal Mazar ~tk3'W~n@ 'Itefreshment.s wi{{ 6e served f~olMI~® w~ folMlc ~-m ll1lt2 MountobanJ(S Presents Tonight, March 2 and 3rd, 8 pm Matinee March 3rd, 2 p .. m. Nott Memorial Theater Box Office 370-6153 J!tPRIZE TO THE TOP . eJ17 DORMITORY,! . FM ~R~~K, INDEPfNDANJ TEAMS --'''--=----- PONDEROSA and Manohar India lmports(Wholesale) 163 Jay St. P .0. Box 835 Schenectady, NY 12301 377-7973 1 83 NOTT TE RRAE:E SCHENECTADY N.Y. 12308 Manhattan Exchange at 605 Union St. The Canary and the Elephant New England Fudge Co. at Jay St. Castello's Restaurant at 1487 State St. Peter Pause Restaurant on Nott St. The Hosts of Trivia 1990 Bruce Pennypacker, Nina Mehta, Kim Schaefer, Jim Bunch GOOD LUCK! i' I i

CONCORDJENSIS, Mt~rclr 1, 1990 Page 9 SCIENCE & TECH.NOLOGY PRO-CHOICE . . MEETING 5:30- .. MONDAY MARCH 5 In Room 4()9 Fourth Floor Q,f ~The College Center· By J)ON VALERIO Science & Te(bnology Ed·itor Low Calorie Fat Substitute AJlproved The Food and Drug Administration recently approved the first low-calorie substitute for fat, opening the door to new foods that may revolutionize the American diet. The substance, known as Sim:plesse, was developed by the Nutrasweet Company. It is a blend of proteins from egg white and rnilk, made into a rich creamy fluid. The new substitute is unable to withstand high temperatures and therefore cannot be used in cooking. However, work on other substitutes is currently under_ way at several other companies and it is expected that a fat substitute that can be used in cooking will soon be developed Simplesse is expected to become the fat substitute in a wide variety of foods, especially in the area of frozen desserts, where the product is an excellent substitute in frozen yogurt and ice cream. The FDA has approved the new product for general use. Exxon To Renew Cleanup Efforts The Exxon Corporation has agreed to renew cleanup efforts on the Alaskan beaches fouled by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. The company plans to return to Prince William Sound and the Gulf of Alaska no later than May 1. The announcement settled the question of whether the over whether more work was needed to repair the damage done by the nation's worst oil spill. Until last week, the comp11ny had refused to commit itself to any further cleanup this year. It bas been estimated by the Coast Guard and the state that between 120 and 140 miles of coastline still are polluted by significant deposits of oil. The Exxon Corporatioll, the world's second-largest oil company, has been battling a serious image problem since the Valdez spill at the end of last March and has been under intense public pressure to throw in even more resources for the cleanup. Under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972~ the government has the power to take over the cleanup and send Exxon the bi1l if it is not satisfied with the progress being made. · Hints Of Harm The preliminary results of a new study show that coronary bypass surgery leads to subtle, long-lasting impairment of mental performance in nearly one in five people who undergo the heart operation. Patients have reported having trouble concentrating, remembering new information and performing mental tasks. The trouble persisted in 17% of the patients a year after surge.ry. . However, the findings.are far from definitive and scientists say the problem is not seriusly debilitating. their mood change resulted from damage sustained in surgery. The significance of the study is uncertain. The results have not yet been published in any scientific journals or endorsed by scientific peers. Some American heart surgeons have expressed skepticism that the findings will hold up, and many say that physicians and patients should not become overly alarmed by the findings because the effects on mental ability, if real, are minor. Pilotless Flights To Explore Ozene Researchers at Harvard University are building a pilotless airplane for research flights through the ozone hole in tile upper atmosphere over Antarctica. Presently, piloted aircraft are used, but they are unable to reach heights greater than 68,000 feet. Weather balloons are also used, travelling up to 85,000 feet, but they are unable to remain long enough to gather data regarding many of the chemical reactions that occur over time which could be re sponsbile for ozone depletion. The prototype aircraft under construction at Harvard will have a wingspan of 60 feet and be capable of reaching 85,000 feet. The fuselage and wings will be made of a strong, light-weight material resembling graphite. The craft will be battery prowered and guided by remote control. The first flights of the new aircraft are expected to begin in the fall of 1991. source: ..._ ____________________ ..... company would fight the state The study also suggests that up to 20% of the b-ypass patients are depresssed one year after their operation and that New York Times America's Last Peacenik William . Sloane Coffin Coming to Uniort April 8th . ''Wily,_ thank_ YQ'-1· ••• J~an~ you very mu¢hl\ SENIORS Thought about speaking ·commencement? at If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (apiox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone numbers. lf you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Ivlrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you wi~l be notified about an audition.

CONCORDJENSIS, Marcil 1, 1990 Page 9 ~=-~====~~--------------~~-=~~~~~--------~----------~~h SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY ·Pfpblem.·. ot. tbe Week. ;IYirtg ma.tqy ·. Y2iS 1 .. c~l~i'!\4· •·.... (Y ~x;) . PRO-CHOICE MEETING 5:30 · MONDAY MARCH 5 In R.oom 409 Fourth Floor Of The College Center By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Low Calorie Fat Substitute Approved The Food and Drug Administration recently approved the first low-calorie substitute for fat, opening the door to new foods that may revolutionize the American diet. The substance, know11 as Simplesse, was developed by the Nutrasweet Company. It is a blend of proteins from egg white and milk, made into a rich creamy fluid. The new substitute is unable to withstand high temperatures and therefore cannot be med in cooking. However, work on other substitutes is currently under way at several other companies and it is expected that a fat substitute that can be used in cooking will so()n be developed Simplesse is expected to become the fat substitute in a wide variety of foods, especially in the area of frozen desserts, where the product is an excellent substitute in frozen yogurt and ice cream. The FDA has approved the new product for general use. Exxon To Renew Cleanup Efforts The Exxon Corporation has agreed to renew cleanup efforts on the Alaskan beaches fouled by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. The company plans to return to Prince William Sound and the Gulf of Alaska no later than May 1. The announcement settled the question of whether the .._ ____________________ _... company would fight the state over whether more work was needed to repair tile damage done by the nation's worst oil spill. Until last week, the company had refused to commi,t itself to any further cleanup this year. It has been estimated by the Coast Guard and the state that between 120 and 140 miles of coastline still are poUuted by significant deposits of oil. The Ex.xon Corporation, the world's second-largest oil company, has been battling a serious image problem since the Valdez spill at the end of last March and has been under intense public pressure to throw in even more resources for the cleanup. Under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, the government has the power to take over the cleanup and send Exxon the bill if it is not satisfied with t:he progress being made. Hints Of Harm The preliminary results of a new study show that coronary bypass surgery leads to subtle, long-lasting impairment of mental performance in nearly one in five people who undergo the heart operation. Patients have reported having trouble concentrating, remembering new information and performing mental tasks. The troable persisted in 17% of the patients a year after surgery. However, the findings are far from definitive and scientists say the problem is not seriusly debilitating. The study also suggests that up to 20% of the bypass patients are depresssed one year after their operation and that their mood change resulted from damage sustained in surgery. The significance of the study is uncertain. The results have not yet been published in any scientific journals or endorsed by scientific peers. Some American heart surgeons have expressed skepticism that the findings will hold up, and many say that physicians and patients should not become overly alarmed by the findings because the effects oR mental ability, if real, are minor. Pilotless Flights To Explore Ozone Researchers at Harvard University are building a pilotless airplane for research flights through the ozone hole in the upper atmosphere over Antarctica. Presently, piloted aircraft arc used, but they are unable to reach heights greater than 68,000 feet. Weather balloons are also used, travelling up to 85,000 feet, but they arc unable to remain long enough to gather data regarding many of the chemical reactions that occur over time which could be responsbile for ozone depletion. The prototype aircraft under construction at Harvard will have a wingspan of 60 feet and be capable of reaching 85,000 feet. The fuselage and wings will be made of a strong, light-weight material resembling graphite. The craft will be battery prowered and guided by remote control. The first flights of the new aircraft are expected tc· begin in the fall of 1991. source: New York Times America's Last Peacenik William Sloane Coffin Coming to Union April 8th ''Why, thank you •••• Ttlank you very muchl\ SENIORS Thought about speaking Commencement? at If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone numbers. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday. May 4 and you will be notified about an audition.

Page 10 (!!IlttfJlrhirnsis -------· Fo.unded at Vni6n College 1877--- Registrar's Office: Theatre of the Abs·urd GenEd is on the rampage, rearing its ugly head as it wreaks havoc with our Spring Term schedule. Seniors have had their ·choice classes denied them. Juniors are dazed and confused as course sections are all offered at the same time. Sophomores have yet to feel the impact of this awful monster, but, just as no ancient saUor was safe from Scylla and Charybdis, they~ too, will meet a similar fate. GenEd was not intended to be evil or resented. In fact, it is not a bad idea. Compared to the liberal learning system, which will soGn have passed into oblivion, GenEd is a real itnprovement. It demands that its s:nbjects to be well-rounded students, requiring the class of '93 and those to follow to meet stricter standards for breadth of education. It would be foolish to argue with the principles behind GenEd. But until every single Union student is subject to it, more care must be taken in its implementation. With three-quarters of the school stili following the liberal learning program, the registrar's office ought to be more mindful of the concerns of this majority. Many seniors see spring term as an opportunity to take a course that they always wanted to but never could because they were busy fulfilling requirements. It is a time when many seniors have already been offered jobs or have been accepted into graduate schools. Perhaps there was a certain history class that had always appealed to a student, but had conflicted with a lab he was required to take. Now, . with all labs behind ltim, the student eyes American History Since the Civil War. Three different sections, he sees. One has to be at a good time. Much to his dismay, he finds that all sections are offered at the same time, a bad time. What's more, even if a sacrifice or two can be made to open up this time slot, he finds that all spots in all sections are reserved for freslunen who have to tiave to meet GenEd requirements. Freshmen Preceptorial is not open to all students. Therefore, it is not listed as an option that a student might reasonably mistake as a course for which one can actually be signed up. Some indication should be made on the course listing denoting those classes that are pre-assigned. The complaint that we make here is a specific gripe that is easily correctable. The positive aspects of GenEd cannot be overlooked. Liberal learning has forced many students to take courses that they have no interest in and that they do not learn very ntuch in either. If it is working as hoped, GenEd has cut back on, if not eliminated, many of these \gut\ courses. But the registrar cannot forget the remnants of the liberal learning age. CONCOJUJJENSIS, March 1, 1990 LETTERS Student Scrutinizes Security System ' To tile Editor: Almost everyone is familiar with the experience of being alot1e and needing to get smne:where after dark. Astutely, ycu c:all security and then wind up st3nding unaccompanied in the cold, waiting for half an how_ By the time you finally cra\'1 into the car, you wonder why you didn't just walk home in tile first place. / Tllis happened to me less than two weeks ago. Furious and frozen, I was detennined to write an article condemning security. However, before I tore the system to shreds, I decided it w auld be prudent to go to the people who actually worked for it. It would only be fair to give them a chance to defend themselves. Astonishingly enough, during the two hours I spent interviewing Paul Mantica (Director of Security and Safety) I realized that I had been completely misinformed. The first thing I learned was that EVERY security incident which is reported is published· each week in the C o n cor die n sis . These include suspicious persons, harassments and/or attacks. Pre\\Viously, I had suspected that many assaults were occurring and they were kept from the st~tden·t population because security didn't want to retain a bad safety record. This is a definite fallacy. Paul Mantica states, i•n1ere is no attempt to keep Letters to the ·Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • optntons of the Editorial Board. AU_.. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMI'ITED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. anything secret because we have nothing to hide ... \ Another important fact is that no attacks with a witness present have ever been reported. I'm neither claiming that it . hasn't happened nor that it can't happen. However, based on these statistics, it is safe for two girls to walk on campus together at night. . This verity leads to an essential point. Exactly what is security's purpose? There are two cars per night which exist primarily to handle things like fire alarms, building checks, disciplinary issues (fights), and vandalism. During the week from 8 pm to 1 am and the weekend from 8 pm to 3 am, it is the job of the Student Escort Service (the van) to ·cart .students at risk (i.e. solitary girls) from place to place. During especially busy hours, security assists the Student Escort Service in handling the overload. It is important to note~ however, that only during the hours when the student escort service doesn't operate is it security's duty to make carries. Neither the security systerr. nor the van is designed to operate as a student taxi service. Unfortunately, they consistently get treated as such. On the average, between 300 and 500 carries are made each week (with. each \earn\ containing as many as five or six people). Therefore, because security is really transporting about 1000 j>e()jlle per week, it is unavailable for the studen~ who reall-y need it. Paul Mantica feels that the core ()f the problem lies in the abuse of the syste:tn~ \The esc()rt service is a vital function a:; lo·ng as it's not abused ... ·tl!eo abuse is why it's not working ... it's becoming a_ taxi service a£ opposed to l:lD. escort service .•. \' The people who work for security wa11t to improve the situation :as much as the students do. However, ill reality. tnG:st ()f dle proposals to make it. better .are muclt more difficult to install thaii they may seem. It sounds very easy to say, \Why do11't they just have more cars? G<Jd knows. Union must have enough. money.•• Paul Mantica claims that having an~ther car would1lft help because the system would still remain abused. If security was more e:fficient, more students ~~,~LOilld use it and dlerefore tile IJrohlem wouldn\t go away. It has aJso been suggested that the cotl{lge hire a shuttle bus whiCil would run on a consistent schedule around tile campus. · Agai:n, this is barder to do than it appears. Not only would the ~ollege have to deal with expeose.cf buying/leas:illg buses ancl hiring people to drive tmem, but it is impossib·le to. determin~ whether <»r not such a system Contin:a.ed on page l1

Page 10 CONCORDJENSIS, Nt!lrch 1, 1990 O!llltfllrbirnsts ----Founded at Union College 1877--- Registrar's Office: Theatre of the Absurd GenEd is on the rampage, rearing its ugly head as it wreaks havoc with our Spring Term schedule. Seniors have had their choice classes denied them. Juniors are dazed and confused as course sections are all offered at the same tin1e. Sophomores have yet to feel the impact of this awful monster, but, just as no ancient sailor was safe from Scylla and Charybdis, they, too, will n1eet a similar fate. GenEd was not intended to be evil or resented. In fact, it is not a bad idea. Compared to the liberal learning system, which will soon have passed into oblivion, GenEd is a real improvement. It demands that its subjects to be well-rounded students, requiring the class of '93 and those to follcw to meet stricter standards for breadth of education. It would be foolish to argue with the principles behind GenEd. But until every single Union student is subject to it, more care must be taken in its implementation. With three-quarters of the school still following the liberal learning program, the registrar's office ought to be more mindful of the concerns of this majority. Many seniors see spring term as an opportunity to take a course that they always wanted to but never could because they were busy fulfilling requirements. It is a time when many seniors have already been offered jobs or have been accepted into graduate schools. Perhaps there was a certain history class that had always appealed to a student, but had conflicted with a lab he was required to take. Now, . with all labs behind him, the student eyes American History Since the Civil War. Three different sections, he sees. One has to be at a good time. Much to his dismay, he finds that all sections are offered at the same time, a bad time. What's more, even if a sacrifice or two can be made to open up this time slot, he finds that all spots in all sections are reserved for freshmen who have to have to meet GenEd requirements. Freshtnen Preceptorial is not open to all students. Therefore, it is not listed as an option that a student might reasonably mistake as a course for which one can actually be signed up. Some indication should be made on the course listing denoting those classes that are pre-assigned. The complaint that we make here is a specific gripe that is easily correctable. The positive aspects of GenEd cannot be overlooked. Liberal learning has forced many students to take courses that they have no interest in and that they do not learn very much in either. If it is working as hoped, GenEd has cut back on~ if not eliminated, many of these \gut\ courses. But the registrar cannot forget the remnants of the liberal learning age. LETTERS Student Scrutinizes Security System ' To the Editor: Almost everyone- i:S familiar with the experie11~e of being alone and needimg to get somewhere afterdaLk~ Astutely, you call security an-d tllen wind up standing unacc~mpanied in the cold, waiting for half an hom. By the til11ie you finaHy craw 1 into the car, -yoa wonder why you didn't just ~alk home in the first place. This happened to me less than two weeks a.ga. Furious and frozen, I was determined to write an article cOondemning security. Howeve:r, fuefcre I tore the system to shreds ,I decided it would be pm cieru ~o go to the people whD acttwllly worked for it. It would ordy be fair to give them a c b&nce: to defend themselves. A.s tonishingly enough, during tJ1e two hours I spent intef\li e'M'iing Paul Mantica (Director' of Security and Safety) I rea.li;ze-d that I had been completely misinformed. The first thing II I earned was that EVERY se:eurity iacident which is reported i5 published each week.. in the Concordierns:is. These include suspicious persons, harassments il.l1d/()r attacks. Previously, I had su.spected that many assaults -were occurring and they were keJ)t from the student popul atiofl because security didn't 'Wmt to retain a bad safety recol'<i. This is a definite fallacy. P;aul Mantica states, \There i.s Il<l att~mpt to keep Letters to th~ Editor do not necessarily reriEct tlt.e .. . opirnions of the Editorial Board .. ALL LETTERS TO THE EDlT,OR MUST BE'fYPED, DOUBLE S?ACED AND SUBMJTIED TO 'THE CONCQRDIENSIS OFFICE. BY 4:00 P.M, ONTHE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCOIIDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRE.D WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCBPfED. anything secret beca11se we have nothing to hide ... '' Another important fact is that no attacks with a witness present have ever been repoited. I'm neither claiming that it hasn't happened nor thel!t it can't happen. However, based on these statistics, it is 8afe for two girls to walk oFt campus together at night. This verity leads tD an essential point. Exactly what is security's purpose? There are two cars per night which exist primarily to handle things like fire alarms, building ,checks, disciplinary issues (figllts}, and vandalism. During the week from 8 pm to 1 am and the weekend from 8 pm te> 3 am, it is the job of the Student Escort Service (the van) to cart students at risk (i.e. solitary girls) from place to place. During especially busy hours, security assists the Student Escort Service in handling the overload. It is important to note, however, that on1y during the hours when the student escort service doesn't operate is it security's duty to make carries. Neither the securit:j' systerr. nor the van is designed to operate as a student taxi service. Unfortunately, they consistently get treated as such. On the average, bet~een 300 and 500 canies are made each week (with each \carry\ containing as many as five or six people). Therefore, because security is really trallsp<Jrting albout 1000 people per week, it is unavailable for the students who really need it. Paul Mantica feels that the core of the problem lies in the abuse of the system. \The escort service is a vital function as long as it's not abused ... the abuse is why it's not working ... it's becoming a tax.i service as opposed to an escort service ... \ 'The people who work for security want to improve the situation as much as the students do. However, in reality, most of the prop<Jsals to make it better are much more difficult to instal:! than tlley may seem. It sounds very easy to say, \Why don't they just have more cars? God knows, Union must have erough money.\ Paul Man tic a claims that having another car wouldn't help because the system would still remain abused. If security was more efficient, more students would use it and therefore the problem wouldn't go away. It has also been suggested that the college hire a shuttle bus which would run on a consistent schedule around the campus. Again, this is harder to do than it appears. N<>t only would the college have to deal with expense of buying/leasing buses and hiring people to drive them, but it is impossible to determine whether or not such a system C<lntinued on page 11

s .. crutiny·. ·C-ontinue.· ·d···· ·· .· ·· . . .. . . . . . -~ would even be utilized. This notion is based on the fact that less than a year and a half ago, security helped to design a student escort/walldng service. Female students called an-Uffice and male students were dispatched to walk them home .•. After all the work to set it up, no one ever used it and the walki11g system had to be abandoned. lt would be too great an expense to have ,th.is happen with a shuttle bus. Paul Mantica and President Morris meet frequently to discuss the problem and to inf~r possible solutions. While progress is being made, in new policies we may see this spring, Paul Mantica feels that student apathy is a big problem. Appare11tly ~ this is the type of situa.tion where everyone _claims tbey want to help, yet are unwilling to put .in the time and follow through w;ith their commitment. In addition, Paul Mantica affirms that it is essential for students to not only be more aware, but also to take the time to notify security when a problem arises. the campus will b.e best protected if everyone makes a coHective effort and works together. What most frustrates the peo.ple who work for security is the too popular rumor that CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1990 they ~e unconcerned and disinterested in the students. Obviously they care or they wouldn't be here .. Paul Mantica asserts, \We don't exist for some self-efficacy. We exist for the students and the staff to provide and maintain the highest level of security -possible together.\ He also added; \What happened to you was a mistake, Erica, yet we all make mistakes. liowever, if mistakes such as tllese are called to our attention and we can correct them, we'll do anything humanly .possible to do so.\ Erica Frank '92 1989-90 SPRI:NG TERM PROCEDURES PRESC'HEDULING Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16. Students sh<>uld review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for · students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CO:NSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY~ FEBRUARY 21. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP · BY 4:30p.m; ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 WILL BE GIVEN TO TilE · NEXT PERSON ON lHE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO · PRESCHEDULE FOR A ''LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. · However they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, M;\RCH 2. Additional course changes roay next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, 1st floor. Students will. be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside,. they s.hould verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more co11rses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration form. They should then see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will preschedule them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Spring term should notify the DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE il1ll11ediately. Students who wiU be on. a Union College term abro.ad for the Spring term do not need to preschedule their courses. Spring term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Page 11 LETTERS. English -Department Writing Prizes The Department of English welcomes submissions for their annual writing contests. Prizes for the four contests range from $100 to $1000, and will be announced at Prize D~y in May. Two of the contests are intended for creative writers, and are open to all students: the Yudis Prize, for the best work of fiction, and the Academy of American Poets Prize, which includes recognition by the nationally-known Academy of American Poets, for the best poem or group of poems. The remaining two contests are intended to reward excellence in non-fiction writing. The VanOrden Prize is for \the freshman student who excels in English composition.\ The Allen Essay Prize is awarded to the senior who submits the best essay. The pieces considered for these contests may be written as part of a student's course work, or they may be the product of indepe,ndent -e.fforts. Prizes are sometimes divided, in order to recognize several works of quality. The deadline for the submission of entries will be Wednesday, March 14. All e11tries must be submittged to the Department office, with a psuedonym, accompanied by a sealed envelope with the pseudonym on the outside and the writer's real name inside, and must be clearly labelled with the name of the ~ppropriate contest. For more information, please contact Professor Jordan Smith. FRESHMEN IN ALL DEPARTMENTS The Van Orden Writing Prize is for you Find out more in English Dept. Deadline March 14, 1990 PRIZES FOR POETS Deadline March 14 Find out more in English Department SENIORS IN ALL MAJORS The Allen Prize in non-fiction is for you Deadline March 14 Ask for information in Eng. Dept. DO YOU WRITE FICTION? We PRIZE your work Find out about prizes,'for your taleni in the English De.pt. Deadline March 14 'Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE. WAY YOU LIKE IT!!

Scrutiny Continued .. e would even be utilized. This notion is based on the fact that less than a year and a half ago, security helped to design a student escort/walking service. Female students called an office and male students were dispatched to walk them home. After all the work to set it up, no one ever used it and the walkiHg system had to be abandoned. It would be too great an expense to bave this happen with a shuttle bus. Paul Mantica and President Morris meet frequently to discuss the problem and to infer possible solutions. While progress is being made, in new policies we may see this spring, Paul Mantica feels that student apathy is a big problem. Apparently, this is the type of situation where everyone claims they want to help, yet are unwilling to put in the time and follow through with their commitment. In addition, Pall! Mantica affirms that it is essential for students to not only be more aware, but also to take the time to notify security when a problem arises. The campus wiH be best protected if everyone makes a collective effort and works together. What most frustrates the people who work for security is the too popular rumor that CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1990 they are unconcerned and disinterested in the students. Obviously they care ox: they wouldn't !De here. Paul Mantica asserts, \We don't exist for soJD.e self-efficacy. We exist for the students and the staff to provide and maintain the highest level of sec1:1rity possible together.\ He also added, \What happened to you. was a mistake, Erica, yet we aH make :mistakes. However, if Inistakes such as lhese are called to our attention and we can correct them, we'll do anything humanly possible to do so.\ Erica Frank '92 1989-90 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES Prescheduling materials wiH be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16. Students should review the course listing, c<Jnsult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and aie so indicated on the course listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21. Students should .sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. You are penni.tted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30p.m; ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Onlv these courses require pe1mission cards. • The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigne<i time. However they may come any time AFfER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, MARCH 2. Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, lst floor. Students wil1 be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once in!>ide, they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration fonn. They should then see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will preschedule them. Students wbo do not plan to return to Union for the Spring term should notify the DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE immediately. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Spring term do not need to preschedule their courses. Spring term course prescheduling will take place from M 0 N DAY, FEBRUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Page 11 LETTERS. English Department Writing Prizes. The Department of English welcomes submissions for their annual writing contests. Prizes for the four contests range from $100 to $1000, and wiU be announced at Prize Day in May. Two of the contests are intended for creative writers, and are open to aH students: the Yudis Prize, for the best work of fiction, and the Academy of American Poets Prize, which includes recognition by the nationally-known Academy of American Poets, for the best poem or group of poems. The remaining two contests are intended to reward excellence in non-fiction writing. The VanOrden Prize is for \the freshman student who excels in English composition.\ The Allen Essay Prize is awarded to the senior who submits the best essay. The pieces considered for these contests may be written as part of a student's course work, or they may be the product of independent efforts. Prizes are sometimes divided, in order to recognize several works of quality. The deadline for the submission of entries will be Wednesday, March 14. All entries must be submittged to the Department office, with a psuedonym, accompanied by a sealed envelope with the pseudonym on the outside and the writer's real name inside, and must be clearly labelled with the name of the appropriate contest. For more information, please contact Professor Jordan Smith. FRESHMEN IN ALL DEPARTMENTS The Van Orden Writing Prize is for you Find out more in English Dept. Deadline March 14, 19'0 PRIZES FOR POETS Deadline March 14 Find out more in English Department SENIORS IN ALL MAJORS Tbe Allen Prize in non-fiction is for you Deadline March 14 Ask for information in Eng. Dept. DO YOU WRITE FICTION'? We PRIZE your work Find out about prizes for your talent in the English Dept. Deadline March 14 Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!!

l , Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS,. March I, 1990 ARTS & .ENTERTAINMENT ~~ --------------------------------------------------------------------------- The Little Mermaid Loose Cannons War of the Roses Enemies: A Love Story Stella Red October Revenge Night Breed Glory Mad House Men Don't Leave Born on the 4th of July Driving Miss Daisy Hard to Kill Call Theaters for Show Times. CAMPUS MOVIE ''LOOK WHO'S TALKING'' FRI. MARCH 2 - SUN. MARCH 4 7, 9, 11 P.M. i< lc. * lc. \HIGHEST RATING. AN EXTRAORDINARY ACCOMPUSHMEN1\ -Mike a..ri<. USIITOO'.Y #THE MOST POWERFUL CRUCIFIXION SCENE ON FILM. Scofsese has given us a very contemporary image of jesus, torn between body and soul, whose triumph is ultimately one of the wilt' -David Ansen. NEWSWEEK MAGAZINE '\THE LAST TEMPTATION . OF CHRIST' EXERTS ENORMOUS POWER. Willem Dafoe has a gleaming intensity. What emerges most memorably is. its sense of absolute conviction, never more palpable than in the final fantasy sequence~' -Janel Maslin, NEW YORK TIMES UNM.RS111. PICTURES..,OMPUX <ltl£00 fllMS..,,. IHE LAST nMPTAliOtfOFOIRIST\ WILlEM DAFOE • HARVEY KEffiL • B.A.RllARA HERSHEY •HARRY DEAN STANTON• DAVID BOWIE -:PAUl SCHRADER -=~Nit:OS KAZAmZAXIS ~Prn.RG.Al!Rill :::::JEAN-PIERRE 0£UftR\\:'.~JQHN .ill:AAD -:THli.IAASCHOONMAKER. ~Miov.lltw.li-WJS.A.SC::I:I::;'.H.OJIKY Ufi.AND --:B.\RWA. DHIN.\ IR ~.....- ·~ ttL~r --MAATINS(C)I\5(S( ·-\\\''\' ~--~.:=~l.. --- . - --~~- .. -- Mon., March 5 CC Aud 8:00 prn 'FREE Discussion to follow. The Birds Are Chirping!! SUBMIT TO THE SPRING IDOL ISSUE: *POETRY *SHO,RT STORIES *ART WORK and/or *PHOTOGRAPHY Contact: Dina Schweitzer or Submit to Box: 2021 11 The House of Horror 11 at Union's .Non Memorial Paul Zaloom, who first appeared at PROCTOR'S TOO in 1988, returns with THE HOUSE OF HORROR. THE HOUSE OF HORROR, Zatoom's aptly horrifying an<! hilarious indicUnent of the tangible and intangible poisons in our contemporary W()rld, is in three ·~· parts. \Safety Begins Here\ is ~. an eye-opening e){pose of real ·I! products designed to clean up ~ after chemical spills and o !- nuclear accidents. Animating g various found objects such as 8: toys, tools, appliances, .t:) packaging materials and other Eii debris, Zaloom performs g \Yikes\, a series 10f hyperactive ::l 8 vignettes about Pentagon 0 PauiZaloom procurement practices, ocean :tc.b dumping, religio11s intolerance and the crim tnal justice system. \The Ho11se of Horror\ Serious Fun! at Lincoln Beyondo on :HBO in 1988. _Center. THE HOUSE OF Stephen Holden of The New HORROR was awarded a 1989 York Times wrote that THE Obie Award by The Village HOUSE OF HORROR \marks is a dummy-puppet show about the phenomenCJn of indoor pollution, in which an innocent family i:s terrorized by Voice. Zaloom's emergence as one of the very ingredients of its modem home. The show premiered last year at Dance Theatre Workshop in New York, m'Oved to the Vineyard Theatre and has subsequently been performed at the Americall Repertory Theatre, Spoleto Festival USA, the International Movement Theatre Festival and A member of the famed the most original and talented Bread and Puppet Theatre for political satirists to work in many years, Zaloom has been the theatre.\ performing his one-man shows Zaloom's PROCTOR'S throughout the world since TOO performances will be at 1978, including FRUIT OF the Nott Memorial Theatre at ZALOOM, CRAZY AS Union College, March 8, 9 and ZALOOM and THEATER Of 10 at. 8:02 p.m. Tickets are TRASH. His comic -film $12.50 ($7.50 students}. Box EATING IN AMERICA was - Office is 346-6204. part of Bette Midler\s Mondo Social Alternatives in the Capital District Saratoga- Caffe Lena On Friday, March 9th, Chris Proctor brings his mastery of the guitar to Caffe Lena. He is a leader in the field of new guitar music. Cover charge is $7 and the show begins at 8:30 p.,m. On Saturday, March lOth, Caffe Lena will present a southern old-time string band called \Critton Hollow\. Schenectady - Proctor's The lOth anniversary tour of the Big Band Festival with the Horace Heidt Orchestra, conducted by Horace Heidt, Jr., will be at Proctor's, Thursday, March 8th at 8 p.m. Call346-6204 for tickets. The Ballet Folclorico Nacional de Mexico will be at Proctor's Wednesday, March 7th at ~ p.m. The troupe is dedicated to capturing the vitality of its national heritage through choreography, costuming and ethnic mu~ic. Call 346-6204 for tickets. Proctor's Too· in the\ Nott \The House of Horrol' will be performed March 8th, 9th, and 1Oth, at, ,. , .. : 8 p.ttl. in~ the Nott. The play is about the phenomen?n of ~ndoor pollution, in which an innocent family is terronzed by the mgredtents of its home. Call 346-6204 for tickets. · .,

P.age 12 COSCORDIENSIS, llr1arcll 1, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT The Little Night Breed Mermaid Glory LGose Cannons Mad House War of the Men Don't Roses Leave Ene1nies: A Love Story Born on the 4th of July Stella Red October Driving Miss Daisy Revenge Hard to Kill Call Theaters for Show 'limes .. CAMPUS MOVIE ''LOOK WHO'S TALKING'' FRI. MARCH 2 - SUN. MARCH 4 7, 9, 11 P.M. *it..* *\HIGHEST RI\T\NG. AN EXTRAORDINARY ACCOMPLISHMENT.\ -Miler a..t. UY. TOO.O.Y \THE MOST POWERfUl CRUCIFIXION SCENE ON FILM. Scorsese has given us a very contemporary image of jesus, torn between body and soul, whose triumph is ultimately one of the will:' - D~\d Ansen, NEWSWEEJ< MAGAZINE .....__.. THE lASr ~ lEMPrATION OF CHRIST \'THE LAST TEMPTATION OF CHRIST' EXERTS ENORMOUS POWER. Willem Dafoe has a gleaming intensity. What emerges most memorably is its sense of absolute convidion, never more palpable than in the final fantasy sequence:' - Janf.'l Maslm. NEW YORK TIMES UNlVf.J\.W. PICT\WJ.S -ONEPUXOO!:QI'•mt.IIS .... --nfE LAST TWPTATfON Of OfRJSr WilL EM DAFOE.· HARVEY !<EITEL· &ARilAAA HE.RSHEY • HARRY DEAN STANTON a DAVID BOWIE ~:PAUl SCHRADER -::::-:NIKOSKAZAmZAKIS ~ Pfl!RGA!IRJEL =IEAN-PIEIIJU D£UfH -::-.-::I()HN 8f.AJIJ) •\:THELMA SCH()O!IIM.IIJ(ER =MICIWl1lAllJ-WJS, ,t,.SC: =HARRY IJflAND --:&.RIW\I. DEfiNA ~~~~ ~ --:w..RliNSCOftSE.St ;.u:!\:' ... ~ .. Mon., March 5 CC Aud 8:00pm FREE Discussion to follow. The Birds Are Chirping!! SUBMIT TO THE SPRING IDOL ISSUE: *POETRY *SHORT STORIES *ART WORK and/or *PHOTOGRAPHY Contact: Dina Schweitzer or Submit to Box: 2021 \The House of Horror\ at Union's Nott Memorial Paul Zaloom, who first appeared at PROCTOR'S TOO in 1988, returns with THE HOUSE OF HORROR. THE HOUSE OF HORROR, Zaloom's aptly horrifying and hilarious indictment of the tan.gible and intangible poisons in our contemporary world, is in three parts. \Safety Begins Here\ is an cyc-opclling expose of real products designed to clean up after chemical spills and nuclear accidents. Animating various found objects st~ch as toys, tools, appliances, packaging materials and other debris, Zaloom performs \Yikes\, a series of hyperactive vignettes about Pentagon procurement practices, ocean dumping, religious intolerance and the criminal justice system. \The House of Horror\ is a dummy-puppet show about the phenomenon of indoor pollution, in which an innocent family is terrorized by the very ingredients of its modern home. The show premiered last year at Dance Theatre Workshop in New York, moved to the Vineyard Theatre and has subsequently been performed at the American Repertory Theatre, Spoleto Festival USA, the International Movement Theatre Festival and Paul Zaloom Serious Fun! at Lincoln Beyondo on HBO in 1988. Cellter. THE HOUSE OF Stephen 1-Iolden of Tbe New HORROR was awarded a 1989 York Times wrote that THE Obie Award by The Village HOUSE OF HORROR \marks Voice. Zaloom's emergence as one of A member of the famed the most original and talented Bread and Puppet Theatre for political satirists to work in many years, Zaloom has been the theatre.\ performing his one-man shows Zaloorn 's PROCTOR'S throughout the world since TOO performances will be at 1978, including FRUIT OF the Nott Memorial Theatre at ZALOOM, CRAZY AS UnionCollege,March8,9and ZALOOM and THEATER OF 10 at 8:02 p.m. Tickets are TRASH. His comic film $12.50 ($7.50 students). Box EA'TING IN AMERICA was Office is 346-6204. pa1t of Bette Midler\s Mondo Social Alternatives in the Capital District Saratoga - Caffe Lena On Friday, March 9th, Chris Proctor brings his mastery of the guitar to Caffe Lena. He is a leader in the field of new guitar music. Cover charge is $7 and the show begins at 8:30p.m. On Saturday, March lOth, Caffe Lena will present a southern old-time string band called \Critton Hollow\ . Schenectady - Proctor's The 1Oth anniversary tour of the Big Band Festival with the Horace Heidt Orchestra, conducted by Horace Heidt, Jr., will be at Proctor's, Thursday, March 8th at 8 p.m. Call 346-6204 for tickets. The Ballet Folclorico Nacional de Mexico will be at Proctor's Wednesday, March 7th at 8 p.m. The troupe is dedicated to capturing the vitality of its nationallleritage through choreography, costuming and ethnic music. Call 346-6204 for tickets. Proctor's Too- in the Nott \The House of Horror\ will be performed March 8th, 9th, and lOth, at 8 p.m. in the Nott. The play is about the phenomenon of indoor pollution, in which an innocent family is terrorized by the ingredients of its home. Call346-6204 for tickets. l

CONCORDIE.NSIS, March 1, 1990 Page 13 'ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT HO.ROSC:OPES BY ''An Pisces: You've been a bft depressed lat~ly, but this week your mpod will change to a positiw one. Someone you are interested in is interested in you as well, but keep them guessing, • 1\..ries: Aries sbould' spend one night this weekend at home when a mate needs some intimacy and understanding. If you 1lre· not involved at this time a good friend may need you. Be· .sure you are therefor them. · . . Taurus: With finals .approaching, you can ·no longer procrastinate! Find yourself somewhere to get work done and: then treat yourself with one night of extravag·ant partying, Expect something unexpected to happen that evening. Gemini: This week you are ready for some new challenges- socially and academically. For the res! of this term whatever you set your eyes on is within reach with hard work. Do not . be afraid of b¢ing vulnerable. Can~er: Dedicate the remainder of this tenn to academics - your grades wi:U contillue to pay off. Treat yourself to something frivolous this weekend - you deserve it!! Le(): The end of the term is really hitting hard on your wallet. To alleviate your monetary situation, watch out for a aggressive and appealing Capricorn or tibra to wirie and dine you. . Virgo: Virgos tend to feel.~ great deal of stress. Fortunately your sex life will be improving in time .for finals and so this problem can be remedied. Libra: Your Sex life will h.it an all time low soon. However; this .can be seen in a positive light as wei( for your libido has been known to interfere with your productivity. Concentrate , on your academics! Scorpio: Scorpios have been working hard this term and although it does show in your grades,_ it shows in your appearance. Rest up this weekend. You and~a loved one should just shut the door, and forget the outside world. Sagittarius: This week you are irresistible everywhere -at parties, in the library, or just hanging otit in the college center. People of the opposite sex are drawn to you. Lucky you!- y0u will have some fun choices to make and you'll end the term on a· great note. Capricorn: Perhaps this would be a good weekend to go home. and get work done. It seems :that Capricorns are unable to stop themselv~s from indulging in partying and drinking even when it has detrimental effects on their work. It is time to use better judgement. Aquarius: Stop loq.king to other.$ for approval, find confidence from within. Your preoccupation with what others think has been preventing you from doing what is truly best for every.one. Do not bother looking for a serious relationship, but do search for a _partner who could relieve your tension caused by the up and coming finals. .. ·· HUG'H WILSON on Key March 7th and 14tt1 at -Memorial C·hapel at 12:30 . Sweet Honey in The Rock at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall TROY _ SWEET HONEY IN THE R()CK. a quintet of black women vocalists will perform their !>lend of gospel, blues, folk, jazz and African music at the Troy Savings Bank Masic Hall on Friday, March 9, at S .p.m. SWEET HONEY's strength lies withi:n its sound and repertoire. ropted in the tradition o.f Black American unaccompanied: choral singing. Each singe;r is an electrifyng soloist WhoO, when joined in chorus, produces an awesome blend of instruments, changing rhythms, switching leads, slurring, leaping and dancing through ;Octaves-- making breathtakillg music. They si11g fiercely of being fighters, taking their ever- growing aadiences through the historic strugzie that is the Black American experience. The concept and leadership of SWEET HONEY rests primarily with Bernice Johnson Reagon, who as vocal director of the D.C. Black Repertory· theatre, founded the gmup in 1973. Re~g?n ~egan her .'o/?rk as an acuv1$t m 1961 dunng the Albany., GA ci vii rights movement struggles. The musical and political groundwork set by Reagan is constantly expanded by SWEET HONEY's ever- changing personnel. Twenty Black women have lent their voices over the past years so that there could be a SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK. Besides Reagan, the sounds of SWEET HONEY are currently created by the voices of four other Black .women artists. Evelyn Harris, a member of the group since 1974, works as an administrative ass1s.tant tor SWEET HONEY's production company. Ysaye Maria Barnwell is a speech pathologist and health care professional who has, since 1979, provided the full bodied base lines heru::d in so much of SWEET HONEY's music. Aisba Kahlil (1981) is a performing artist, teacher and ·choreographer, specializing in the integration of contemporary dance, theatre and music. The newest member of the group, Nitanju Bolade (1985) has combined her love of music, dance, and performance of African folklore into her SWEET HONEY experience. SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK has performed for sell- out crowds at New York City's Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall, Town Hall, and The Bottom Line; Orchestra Hall in D~'troit as well as 11 cities in Japan, and has particpated in events sponsored by the New Song Movement in Mexico City and Ecuador, and in the Edinburgh Festival in Scotland. SWEET HONEY has been featured on a PBS sp~cial and has recently released a new album entitled, \Live at Carnegie Hall\. Solution lo \M & M's\ 'rhere are tickets still available for SWEET HONEY's performance at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Friday, March 9, at 8 p.m. All seats are $12.00. Tickets may be purchased at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Box Office at 88 Fourth Street, downtown Troy, any branch of Community Box Office, or by charging your tickets to Mastercharge, VISA or American Express through the Music Hall Box Office at (518) 273-0038. Box office hours are Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. A T 0 N E C A'M - B E -..---......-,--, A L L l E 0 A I N T E L S 'The Troy Savings Bank Music Hall is located at the corner of State and Second Streets in downtown Troy, on A S I E E P the third floor of the Troy Savings Bank. UNION COLLEGE Winter Concert Series OFF THE BEATEN TRACK Final Concert WORLD MUSIC & JAZZ Professor Tom Ross,·guitar and voice with accompanying band . Friday, March 2,nd at 7:30 PM ~ in P.A.S. Arts Building . FREE ADMISSION ( . ...:.·

CONCORDIENSJS, March 1, 1990 Page 13 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT HOROSCOPES BY \A\ Pisces: You've been a bit depressed lately, but this week your mood will change to a positive one. Someone you are interested in is interested in you as well, ,l[)ut keep them guessing. Aries: Aries should spend one night this weekend at home when a mate needs some intimacy and understanding. If you are not involved at this time a good friend may need you. Be sure you are there for them. Taurus: With finals approaching, you can no longer procrastinate! Find yourself somewhere to get work done and then treat yourself with one night of extra\agant partying. Expect something unexpected to happen that evening. Gemini: This week you are ready for some new chaUenges - socially and academically. For the rest of this term whatever you set your eyes on is within reach with hard work. Do not be afraid of being vulnerable. Cancer: Dedicate the remainder of this term to academics - your grades will continue to pay off. 'Treat yourself to something frivolous this weekend- you deserve it!! Leo: The end of the term is really hitting hard on your wallet. To alleviate your monetary situation, watch out for a aggressive and appealing Capricorn or Libra to wine and dine you. Virgo: Virgos tend to feel a great deal of stre.ss. Forttmately your sex life will be improving in time for finals and so this problem can be remedied. Libra: Your sex life will hit an all time low soon. However, this can be seen in a positive light as well, for your libido has been known to interfere with your producti,vity. Concentrate on your academics! Scorpio: Scorpios have been working hard this term and although it docs show in your grades, it shows in your appearance. Rest up this weekend. You and a loved one should just shut the door, and forget the outside world. Sagittarius: This week you are irresisti@le everywhere - at parties, in the library, or just hanging out in the college center. People of the opposite sex are drawn to you. Lucky you! - you will have some fun choices to make and you'll end the term on a great note. Capricorn: Perhaps this would be a good weekend to go horne and get work done. It seems that Capricorns are unable to stop themselves from indulging in partying and drinking. even when it has detrimental effects on their work. It is time to use better judgement. Aquarius: Stop looking to others for approval, find confidence from within. Your preoccupation with what others think has been preventing you from doing what is truly best for everyone. Do not bother looking for a serious relationship. but do search for a partner who could reliieve your tension caused by the up and coming finals. HUGH WILSON on Key March 7th and 14th at Memorial Chapel at 12:30 Sweet Honey in The Rock at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall TROY _ SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK, a quintet of black women vocalists will perform their blend of gospel, blues, folk, jazz aHd African music at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall on Friday, March 9, at 8 p.m. SWEET HONEY's strength lies within its sound and repertoire, rooted in the tradition of Bl::ick American unaccompanied choral siNging. Each singer is an electrifyng soloist who, when joined in chorus, produces an awesome blend of instruments, changing rhythms, switching leads, slurring, leaping and dancing through octaves-- making breathtaking music. They sing fiercely of being fighters, taking their ever- growing audiences through the historic struggle that is the Black American experience. The concept and leadership of SWEET HONEY rests primarily with Bernice Johnson Reagan, who as vocal director of the D.C. Black Repertory theatre, founded the group in 1973. Reagon began her work as an activist in 1961 during the Albany, GA civil rights movement struggles. The musical and political groundwork set by Reago!l is constantly expanded by SWEET HONEY's ever- changing personnel. Twenty Black women have lent their voices over the past years so that there could be a SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK. Besides Reagan, the sounds of SWEET HONEY are currently created by the voices of four other Black women artists. Evelyn Harris, a member of the group since 1974, works as an admmtstratt ve assistant tor SWEET HONEY's production company. Ysaye Maria Barnwell is a speecll pathologist and health care professional who has, since Solution to \M & M's\ 1\ I' R c B E R R D E T M E T E A S S T n N .... A M M E s s E A L l L E 0 A N N E T 8 0 E T L S E E E P 1979, provided the full bodied base lines heard in so much of SWEET HONEY's masic. Aisha Kahlil (1981) is a performing artist, teacher and choreographer, specializing in the integrntion of contemporary dance, theatre and music. The newest member of the group, Nitanju Bolade (1985) has combined her love of music, dance, and performance of African folklore into her SWEET HONEY experience. SWEET HONEY IN THE ROCK has performed for sell- out crowds at New York City's Lincoln Center, Carnegie Hall, Town Hall, and The Bottom Line; Orchestra Hall in Dt'troit as well as 11 cities in Japan. and has particpated in events sponsored by the New Song Movement in Mexico City and Ecuador, and in the Edinburgh FcstiV<il in Scotland. SWEET HO\IEY ha:; hccn featured on a PBS special and has recently released a new album entitled, \Live at. Carnegie Hair'. There are tickets still available for SWEET HONEY's performance at the Troy S<!vings Bank Music Hall on Friday, March 9. at R p.m. All seats arc $12.00. Tickets may be purchased at the Troy Savings Bank Music Hall Box Office at 88 Fourth Street, downtown Troy, any branch of CommLJnity Box Office, or by charging your tickets to Mastercharge, VI SA or American Express through the Music Hall Box Office at (518) 273-0038. Box office hours arc Monday through Friday, 10 a.m.-5 p.m. 'The Troy Savings Bank Music Rall is located at the corner of State and Second Streets in downtown Troy, on the third floor of the Troy Savings Bank. UNION COLLEGE Winter Concert Series OFF THE BEATEN TRACK Final Concert WORLD MUSIC & JAZZ Professor Tom Ross, guitar and voice with accompanying band Friday, March 2nd at 7:30 PM in P.AsS. Arts Building FREE ADMISSION

Page 14 CONCORDIENSlS, March 1, H90 Increased Residential Options for 1990 .. 91 In helping students prepare for the upcoming 1990 housing lottery, the Office of Residence Life is making centrally located down~campus housing more available for all . upperclassmen. Generally, for next year, housing for upperclassmen wm be concentrated down-campus while housing for new incoming freshmen is. be.ing broadened to include small residential houses (Hickok and Potter South). Additionally, co-ed housing will be expanded to No.rth College. The changes will go into effect for the upcoming housing lottery {Spring 1990). The Specific changes are: Potter South will be co-ed and all freshmen. North College will become co-ed; 1_st Fl. all women; 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors co-ed. The number of suites available for the upcoming Sophomore class will increase from 30 suites to 33 suites. 20 suites will be reserved for Juniors and Seniors Smith House will remain a co-ed co-op Sophomores will continue to have first pick of the suites; then Juniors and Seniors will select the 20 reserved suites. The quality of life in Fox and Davidson will become markedly different with the large increase of upperclassmen coupled with an equally large decrease of freshmen. Fox and Davidson will primarily house sophomores, juniors and seniors. In response to increased demand for co-ed housing, North College will become co-ed. The changes in everyday residential living should be clear. The number of singles in North College available to women would decrease by 16, but this would be offset by the number of singles on co-ed floors previously reserved for men (l2). There will be annour:Jcements forthcoming shortly providing specific information to allow students to make informed choices. The lottery will begin in mid-April, approximately one month earlier than last year. February 20, i 990 Sunday March 4th is The final Night of Trivia 1 90 Score Update: Greeks-- Kappa Sigma -15 \Phi Delta Theta - 9 Phi Neat Guys - 6 Independents--Chaos 60 Relatives - 9 Wing Wong Family - 5 Mikedos- 3 GDI-1 Dorms--Team Ed/Webster - 21 Smith House -10 Cfiff Heads/West 4th - 5 South 2nd- 3 Start Counting Your Trees! Good Luck. Think twice ·\\ •W 0· ancl save a• ,P,t~IJ~ ·· · ·· ··· Our multicourse registration discount saves you 20 percei11 ()0 two cou~s, 25 percent on three or mo:re. Calll-SOO-IlJNDS NU (in lllmois, ~all708/491·41l4) of. . · .. Come to the CHUC room and take advanta,ge · of a corn u<;opia ofcomputer possibi'lites. 'Wheilier you are composing a resume, typing a paper, or struggliQg with your thesis, CHUC is the pbce to go. CHUC is located in the basement of the Humanities building. Step 386/25 80386 25MHz Processor· 2MB ,RAMwit)l128K Cache Memory for Zer() Wait State Performance 80MB Disk- 28MS Access VGA M()nitor and Adapter 1 Seria]/1 Parallel Ports 5 1/4\ 1.2MB Floppy MS/DOS3.3 On Site Maintenance \The Step 386/25 finished first in our CPU performance trials.\- Info World $4,227 Viith:Valld School ~reID C.U for otl!er coafl&W\\tlcoo SSI Software Solutions, Ineo semne; lhe CapJtal J)llltrld Silica 1m 2li Cllooputer Drive But Alhlny, NY 1221& (518) 45&-1860 . ' ~,:) -----.. I ~ .. I I ·I I

Page 1_. CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 199(} increased Residential Options tor 1990-91 In helping students prepare for th€ upcoming 1990 housing lottery, the Oflice of Residence Life is making centrally located down-campus housing more available for all upperclassmen. Generally, for next year, housing for upperclassmen will be concentrated down-campus while housing for new incoming freshmen is being broadened to include small residential houses (Hickok and Potter South). Additionally. co-ed housing will be expanded to North College. The changes will go into effect for the upcoming housing lottery (Spring 1990). The Specific changes are: Potter South will be co-ed and all freshmen. North College will become co-ed; 1st Fl. all women; 2nd, 3rd and 4th floors co-ed. The number of suites available for the upcoming Sophomore class will increase from 30 suites to 33 suites. 20 suites wrll be reserved for Juniors and Seniors Smith House will remain a co-ed co-op Sophomores will continue to have first pick of the suites; then Juniors and Seniors will select the 20 reserved suites. The quality of life in Fox and Davidson will become markedly different with the large increase of upperclassmen coupled with an equally large decrease of freshmen. Fox and Davidson will primarily house sophomores, juniors and seniors. In response to increased demand for co-ed housing, North College will become co-ed. The changes in everyday residential living should be clear. The number of singles in North College available to women would decrease by 16, but this would be offset by the number of singles on co-ed floors previously reserved for men (12). There will be announcements forthcoming shortly providing specific information to allow students to make informed choices. The lottery will begin in mid-April, approximately one month earlier than last year. February 20, 1 990 Sunday March 4th is The Final Night of Trivia '90 Score U pcdate: Greeks -- Kappa Sigma -15 Phi Delta Theta - 9 Phi Neat Guys - 6 Independents--Chaos 60 Relatives - 9 Wing Wong Family- 5 Mikedos- 3 GDI-1 Dorms--TeamEd/Webster- 21 Smith House -10 Cliff Heads/West 4th - 5 South 2nd- 3 Start Counting Your Trees! Good Luck. Think twice and save 20 percent. Our multicourse registration discount saves you 20 percent on two courses, 2; percent on three ot• more. Call J-800-FINDS NU (in Illinois, call 708/491·4114) or rnail this coupon, Come to the CHUC room and take advantage of a cornucopia of computer possibilites. '\Vhether you are composing a resume, typing a paper} or struggling with your thesis, CHUC is the place to go. CHUC is located in the ~~ ~~ ba~.ement of the Humanities 00. building. ·-· - ~m~ Step 386/25 80386 25MHz Processor 2MB RAM with 128K Cache Memory : for Zero Wait State Performance 80MB Disk- 28MS Access • · VGA Monitor and Adapter ' 1 SeriaVl Parallel Ports 1 5 1/4\ 1.2MB Floppy MS/DOS3.3 On Site Maintenance SSI ''The Step 386/25 finished first in our CPU performance trials.\- Info World Software Solutions, Inc. $4,227 Serving !he Capital Dlotdct Since 11178 2t.Comput4irDtlve ll.aJt,Alban): N¥12215 Wilh Valid School Picwre ID Call f<>l' olher ocoofigwotlooa I'm thinking. Send me a free copy of tile Su~:=~~ financial aid and registrafton infol'mation (;11 Please send tbe catalog to \ D my Mme. ~ummi!r $e$$ion '90, 2003 Shctid.n J(jjad ~$flf-1i (518) 458-186()

CONCORDIENSIS,March 1, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS NEWMAN ACTIVITIES CLUB Tuesday Night Supper • March 6th at · 5 p;m. .. AU Union students are invited ~o use meal card,. go throng~, Upperdass Dining, bring tray to CC203 and join Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and other students for supper and conversation. CONFIRMATION· Any Union student who has not been Confinned may contact Sr. Joan at the College Center 404 a. Classes in preparation . for Bishop :Uubbard's visit on · · June 3rd will be arranged with student. schedules in min-4 and Will begin first week of spring . term. · Folk GJ'OUp • All singers and musici_ans interest~d in being part of the music ministry at the 7:3.0 p,m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. the group welcomes .anyone to join who reg:ularly attends~this Liturgy. Tutoring ·u Union College students needed to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231 or box 965. VISITNG SHUT-INS • Any Union student who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please contact Gerri Borne at 372-3381. BIBLE STUDY AND HOLY HOUR • On Tuesday, March 6th in the Chapel of Catholic :& Family Community Services from 7:30 to 8:15p.m. there will be a study of the Gospel of Matthew. followed by a Holy Hour which will conclude with Benediction at 9:15 p.m. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS. For_ Sale: 1988 Ford Mustang - Smoky grey with red pinstripe; hatcbbac~; automatic; 4 cylinder; power steering, brakes. mirrors and lock:s; Dolby stereo with AM/FM cassette player; exc~llent condition, $8,000. Call evenings, ask for Tom · 374-4:786. Attention: Earn money watching TV! $32;000/year incQme potential Details. {1) 602-838-8885 ext TV 7090. COLLEGE CENTER WEE·KLY SCHEDU:LE Thursday, March 1, 1990 . . · ·. ·· · 11:30 am-- CCAUD Minerva Hour: Gary Alan Fine, \The Challengers of Youth Facing the 21st Century, 8:00pm.,.- CCAUD Philosophy Lecture: n .... Soljd Waste Crisis\ Friday, March 2, 1990 . 12:30pm -- CC203 Phil. Dept. Speake:t' 12:30 pm -- CC409 MSA Friday Services 7, 9 & 11 -- CCAUD .Film: Look Who's 'Talking 7:30pm·- CC302 Coffeehouse . Saturday, March 3,--1990 . 7, 9, & 11 -- CCAUD Film: Look Who's Talking Sunday, March 4, 1990 · . , 7, 9 & 11 -- CCAUD Film: Look Who's Talking Monday, March 5, 1990 . _ 5:30pm :.. CC409 Pro Choice Group 7:00'pm~~CC406Modern,Lang.·F~lms.: _,. ,, ~· . . . 8:00pm--:- CCAUD fJ.lm & Panel D1scuss1on: Martin Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ Tuesday, March 16, 1990 7:30pm -- CC406 & 410 Eating Disorders Wednesday, March 7, 199.0 3:00pm -- CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting 7 j 9 & 11 -- CCAUD Film: Someone to Watch Over Me 7:30pm -- CC406 Spanish Club Film SHOE by Jeff MacNelly ! WN'T W~ITG. At·m- ~.-rrrfZ~NG­ };:t?ITor<rAt...~. T\'1\.'~\\\\:\~~ f;VT NOTUING 11/A T I C.At-.1 '' VIGW WITil ALAI<N't' -~.--. Page 15 Students -Partlfull time cruiseshjp jobs. No experience necessary. 1-800-9Ui-844 7 ext. C-138-3. Students/entrepremeurs: Instant cash, grants and loans. Gmvel1lmellt guaranteed. 1·800- 926-8447 ext G-138-3. Australia Study Abroad one or two semesters. Apply now for s11mmer or fall1990. Paid internships available. For information on the best semester abroad program in the world call800-245-2575. Spring Break 90 u break for less!!! Montego Bay. Jamaica ... from $449 Negril, Jamaica .:. from $469 Cancun, Mexico ... From $459 Daytona Beach, Florida ... from $159 Attention Easy work, excellent pay! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602-838-8885 ext. W-7090. Attention: Earn money typing ·at home! $32,000/yr. 'income potential. Details (1) 602-838-8\885 ext. '1-7090. Attention Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings without waiting. or tst. $17,840 -$69,485. Call 1-602- 838-8885 Ext. R-7090. Attention - Goverament seized vehicles form $10. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys, Surplus BtJyers Guide. 1-602-83&-8885 E1t t. A -7090. Attention - Government homes from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 Ext. GH-7090. Attention : Earn money reading books! $32,000/year income potential. Details (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. Bk-7090. L

CONCORDJENSIS, March 1, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS NEWMAN AC'TIVITlES CLUB Tuesday Night Supper · March 6th at 5 p.m. - All Union students are invited to use meal card. go through. Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC2Q>3 and join Dean of Students Joseph Mammola and other students for supper and conversation. CONFIRMATION - Any Union student who has not been Confirmed may contact Sr. Joan at the College Center 404 B. Classes in preparation for Bishop Hubbard's visit on June 3rd will be arranged with student schedules in mind and will begin first week of spring term. Folk Group • All singers and musicians interested in being part of the m11sic ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. In the church to rehearse. The group welcomes anyone to join who regularly attends this Liturgy. Tutoring - Union College students needed to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231 or box 965. VISITNG SHUT-INS • Any Union student who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please contact Gerri Some at 372-3381. BIBLE STUDY AND HOLY HOUR · On Tuesday, March 6th in the Chapel of Catholic & Family Community Services from 7:30 to 8:15p.m. there win be a study of the GosFel of Matthew, followed by a Holy Hour which will conclu<le with Benediction at 9:15 p.m. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS. For Sale: 1988 Ford Mustang - Smoky grey with red pinstripe; hatchback; automatic; 4 cylinder; power steering, brakes, mirrors and locks; Dolby stereo with AM/FM cassette player; excellent condition, $8,000. Call evenings, ask for Tom 374-4786. Attention: Earn money watchin.g TV! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602-838-8885 ext TV 7090. COLLEGE CENTER WEEKLY SCHEDULE Thursday, March 1, 1990 11:30 am -- CCA UD Minerva Hour: Gary Alan Fine, \The Challengers of Youth Facing the 21st Century\ 8:00pm-- CCAUD Philosophy Lecture:\ ... Solid Waste Crisis\ Friday, March 2, 1990 12:30 pm -- CC203 Phil. Dept. Speaker !2:30pm-- CC409 MSA Friday Services 7, 9 & 11 -- CCAUD Film: Look Who's Talking 7:30pm-- CC302 Coffeehouse Saturday, March 3, 1990 7, 9, & 11 -- CCAUD Film: Look Who's Talking Sunday, March 4, 1990 7, 9 & 11-- CCAUD Film: Look Who's Talking Monday, March 5, 1990 5:30 pro-- CC409 Pro Choice Group 7:00 pm -- CC406 Modern Lang. Films . 8:00pm-- CCAUD film & Panel Discussion: Martin Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ Tuesday, March 16, 1990 7:30pm -- CC406 & 410 Eating Disorders Wednesday, March 7, 1990 3:00 pm -- CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting 7, 9 & 11-- CCAUD Film: Someone to Watch Over Me 7:30pm -- CC406 Spanish Club Film SHOE by Jeff MacNelly w~~~.,. '(<'U'~<::r NOT GG.T11NG IT F~M 11\E.. Page 15 Students -Part/full time cruiseship jobs. No experience necessary. 1-800-926-8447 ext. C-138-3. Students/entrepreneurs: Instant cash, grants and loans. Government guaranteed 1-800- 926-8447 ext G-138-3. Australia Study Abroad one or two semesters. Apply now for summer or fall 1990. Paid ~nternships available. For information on the best semester abroad program in the world call800-245-2575. Spring Break 90 · break for less!!! Montego Bay, Jamaica ... from $449 Negril, Jamaica ... from $469 Cancun, Mexico ... From $459 Daytona Beach, Florida ... from $159 Attention - Easy work, excellent pay! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602-838-8885 ext. W-7090. Attention: Earn money typing at home! $32,000/yr. income potential. Details ( 1) 602-838-8885 ext. T-7090. Attention Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings without waiting or tst. $17,840 -$69,485. Call 1-602- 838-8885 Ext. R-7090. Attention - Government seized ve hie les form $1 0. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys, Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602-838-8885 Ext. A-7090. Attention · Government homes from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 Ext. GH-7090. Attention : Earn money reading books! $32,000/year income potential. Details (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. Bk-7090. ,, Congratulations to Tri-Delta for • • ralslng $8700 • zn Jail 'n Bail last week ·~: ..

; 11:\- Page 16 PERSONALS Wendy, Wendy is our gal cause she'w our eco pal. Egg-A-M11ffin is co~ing soon. To my handsome blanket \hogger\ I LOVE YOU! Ronnie Life is a donkey, if you learn to eat the exhaust. Baskin, Give 6 girls a compliment, and it goes to their heads. Gamma Phi Pledges, Keep it up with your books - you can do it! Love, The sisters Gamma Phi Beta Pledges- We all pulled. through together and we did it! Breakfast in bed 1990 rules! Feel like ----? Why not breakfast in bed: Go for it! Love, the G Phi B Pledges Hey city girl-- Just wanted to \rash\ you! Couldn't you have bought a doctor? Love, the poor people you live with · (and owe money to!) RKT- Happy 21st birthday!! Love, HUB Sisters- You're the best! We're having a great time! Can't wait to be your sis;ters. -The pledges Maddog Mary- The name says it all. You gotta come out with us again this weekend. -Wendy Cheri- I have more than 5 friends, how about you? Freshman Men- -W Adam. John, Jim, Jason, Hal, Jared, Billy and now Jeff- wow --look at all the freshmen men I know! Boy o Boy -· too bad I'm not a freshman girl! Cece- Let's double date with Adam and Sc:an. . Y out Basic Business buddy Mary '' CONCORDIENSTS, March I, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS Jesus C. If you do not beh&v~ Friday night - it will be your last supper! Mary Magdelene Ann- My friend wanted to thank you for your humor and medication. ~The right cheek W,R,C,C,B I know you are there if ·I need you - thanks for caring- P.S. Hi! Elanna we miss you. Love - Beulah Patty Cakes, I guess there is too, too much GAS in Connecticut - so let's go somewhere else soon! Love, Beulah Robin, Cece, Chen, & Mary Let's be study buddies all the time, so we can all take a long vacation. -W M - If these are the worst times, I'm really psyched for spring term •.. despite the rumored \digression stage.\ I figure you got your digression out of your system this week. Hang tough and I love you. -E Jetsons - Thanks for a great game. Congratulations. Hackers: -YoW' formidable foe, The Hackers We did the best we could. · We're really the best. Live it, . love it, learn it, and die. Donna- ! hope you like orange! I'm psyched you're my· Uttle sister! Pledges beware! Alexandra Love in PKE Beth Love in PKE! You're the best little sister ever! Get psyched and beware! · Love inPKE Alison Mamsters . It was classy. Congrats! Love in PKE, SN ERRATUM: Last week in Concordiensis Sigma Phi was noted as having raised close to $100 for Big Brother/Big Sisters Bowl for Kid's Sake tournament. They, in fact, raised $1,000 for the tournament Tuns- Last night was gyeat. You're too :rrmcM Can we do it a,gain tonight??? To Sl;,..F in MD: Tell Mike and Scott front t;he Naval Academy that they m~ssed it. Maybe next time, I miss yo:u. This was a good weekend .. Pray fot more. XOX<)-Lynn Melissa, Basky & Bethy What about the jazz - we forgot about the jaz:z. • Pi.unpldn heads Great job with Petes Beware of Berard Veetes. Even though she is shorter, don't look down on Wendy To My Dickie.: I'm psyched you're here, thanks for being great, I love ~ou· forever. · Love, Chunkey!!! MW- Maybe after this week your life will . be back to normal. Maybe?! LM Tri-Delta: Lori, welcome to Union!· Hope • Get ,psyched for tlie fonnal to see you here riext yew::! Chris 'When Lori, . Welcome to Union! Hope to ~ee you here next year! you give blood you give anod1er birth~ another anniversary, another charice. Chris · Jim, Bruce & Nini, Next Sunday· Simpsons + Karen RAPE SERVICE of Schenectady PLANNED PARENTHOOD 346-2266 Weekly Crossword \M & M's\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Short lor bullets 5 Expiate 10 Phone 14 Lion's imperative 15 Bactrian 16 Bread spread 17 P;:IUse that refreshes 19 Street, artery ()r idea 20 \ ... and a star to_ ·J.......;...-+--+- her by\: John Maesfield's Sea Fever ...,.,_-+---+-+-- 21 Dressing the tree 23 Asian desert 26 Mr. Brummel 27 Pacino and Smith 30 Phil's father-in-Law 32 \ and sn:(li Is ... \ 36 Germs 38- Picnic place setting 39 Follows \PART\: Seating secticms of a theater 40 Wireless 42 Woodwind 43 lo fly an airt:raft 45 Existing only .in the mind 47 Vicki Lawre11ce character 48 Fairy tale brothers 49 Sociologist's adv. de~ree 50 Follows \VEfl\: Dutch painter 52 Domesticate 54· Queen Mother?: 2 wlls 58 Feeds the ki1ty 62 Clifford ~· _: Playwright 63 Colonel Kiillk, eg 66 Dole 67 Word with board, cloth or wheel 68 Otherwise 69 EXisting condition: 2 wds 70 German city 71 Heavy DOWN 1 Curved lines 2 Law school court 3 Broadway musical 4 Jo, or Amy, or Beth,-._ . : .. ·· · · ~ ·~·Little 'WOmen\ ~· 5 Height combining form: Variation 6 Tic's partner 7 Leave out 8 Neighboring 9 Miss·_: TV Dallas cllaracter 10 Eucharist 11 Jai_ 12 Comes before \STEff': P·rovince in Ireland 13 Ms._. -· _: Cheer's Diane . 18. Rust , .~ , 22 Hawkeye's unit 24 Ballet bar 25 Follows \SARD\: Mediterranean isiand 27 Abreast the middle of the ship's side 21! Immature insect sta~e 2S -. _ shaw: Whale bone carving 3i Opposite the zenith 33 \I should have stood _ _\:Joe Jacobs re 1935 World Series 34 Mexican peasants 35 Editors marks 37 Lawrence Taylor and Phil Simms 38 Clause separator 41 Children's tag tarm: 2 wds · 4.t Asiatic weight 45 Capital of Jorda11 p 4S Horses' valets 51 'George Jesse!, eg 53 Finished - · 54 ltalia's capital ·55 lyric poems 56 Abominable Snowman 57 Mesdames: Abbreviation 59 \A_- -·-· of Two Cities\ 60 Precetles \NADA\: California cicy 61 St~ir 64 Adv. degree in religious education 65 Rand: \Fountainhead;' author Answers on .Page 13 . .•

.• CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1990 The Minority Affairs Committee presents: MULTI-CULTURAL DINING TA~LE • - A. tabie where all ethnic groups can engage their differences in..,apracess of mutual enrichment In Up,perclass Dining Room Fridays 11:30-1:30 Page 17 First Meeting .., Friday, March 2, 1990 Moderator: Edgar· Letriz - Hispanic Heritage Remem!)er to reapply for financial aid {~e'hola!\sllip • loan • work study). Co-Hosts:: Twitty J. Styles, John Sowa, George. Smith and Robert Leung BY APRIL 15TH l>.pplic:atiotts· available at the Union College Financial Aid Office 2nd F'loaa', Becker Hall • 37Hl:23 OCI 'Yau Want VISA & MasterCard Credit Cards? · - f'\lo\W¥Youc:.<~il.haV.C two of the· most •ecogn•ted·ana~cepledci'.edlt 11ii'~~ ' , ~ar<l!•nthe~orl(,! VI~A.· andMa.!l!erCarlf·c•e~ltcards .. \mvnur • ~- •. 1 want. VISA\'IMfls:terCarct- 1 ~~~E~'g'~'~ ;Er:,~:~E NEW IN CR~IliT or IIAYE ·BEEN credit cards. :l;':nciQ~ !!nci s 1 5:00 ,.~lch ·IS I \+-\' 1{)()ltlfa-refundabfe tr not aPp_rove~.itnmP.dll!ltelv. ,;r-*\ , V1SA'·end ,_.aslerCird\ 1tllt cr~!fc~~s J~ .til~~ .youd~ssrve·an~,~n&edfor•lo·• BOOKS ~~---- ~· ,(,0 *IJEPARTMEN'I' STORES+ TUITION NAME , _,o- . ~ +ENTERTAINMENT <t EMERGENCY'CASH ' \<'\ ,,.~ . * TICKETS * RESTAURANTS ' 0 •HOTELS+GAS+CARRENTALS --~~-- ' .... ... REPAIRS .. ANOTO BUILD ADDRESS . YOUR CREDIT RATING! I STATE Z:l~ 'CV~RANTEECI t;tlY GOLD CARD ~----- VISA/MASlERCARD PRONE• GUARANTEED ISSUE ·OR MONEY BACK SOC. SECURIT'Y tt ·Approval· alisolutety-1 Quaranteed SO•I-fLJrry 1•111 ~-~---­ oul·thls carc:J today ... I Vour-credi! cards are wa•l•ng' BREAKFAST IN BED! HELP A HANGOVER -Bruegger's Bagels -Orange Julce .. cream Cheese -Aspirin delivered by 2 Gamma Phi pledges em March 3rd, 4th between 10:30-1 :00 . ONSALEALLWEEK $2.00 \ All money goes to Cerebral Palsey LUDLOW HOUSE ... Sometimes chaotic, always fun! A residence hat/ alterna1 .. ive. AfJplications are now available for next year and this spring term. Ft~r Applications or more in:forma11on call: Susan @ 6830 Narc • 68 ZO or talk witfl anv ~nemberl Deadllne f9r applications March 9th THE KOSHER KITCHEN has anew chef! March 2 at 6PM The KOSHER KITCHEN will have Shabbat dinner No charge for this Friday's meal ..... -• ...... ..

· • • • ' • ) I • ' • I • A l' Page. lS CONC'O.RDIENSIS, Marek'], )990 ~~--------~----~--------~~~~----~~~~~------------------------------------ <lfonntrbirusts SPORTS Mouthing Off • • • Continued from page 19 post-season. I hedged my bets on the other three teams, and I will continue to do so. None of them are that dominating or even that good for me to go out on a limb. But-, I will. If Bernie Nicholls can get the rest of his teammates to score at least one even strength goal in each game until the playoffs, the New York Rangers will win .their first Patrick Division title ever, and will have as good a chance as anybody to win the Cup. America's Last Peacenik WILLIAM SLOAN COFFIN Coming to Union APRIL 8th SHADES OF GREY See It Tonight SS-016 • tn at 8:00 THIS IS YOUR LAST CHANCE!! CONCORDIENSIS and WRUC would like to thank THE SKATING DUTCHMEN for another great season M '·S .. ·F··· ··h.· s· · ens . wtmmtp.g · ·· 1n1s ·_·es ... eason Continued from .page 19 the meet, the 400 freestyle relay of Zabka, Wilbur, Tremag lio, and Wagshul once more finished in 9th place, just missing a school record. All in all it was a good weekend for the team. We finished 2 places better than last year, and can only b~ positiv:e about our accomplishments. The entire team deserves credit for swimmi~g fantastically at this meet and all year. We would like to thank our coaches for a fine season (and for ge~ting us home alive in a blinding snow storm), and bid congratulations and a fond farewell to our captain and only senior Lee Fraiji. Next year promises to be even better and more -competitive for Union's Aqua Men. A new age for Union Aquatics has arrived in both swimming and now water polo, which begins this spring. Don't miss out on all the action! PURCHASING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF EA!iTERN NEW., YORK ANNOUNCES **** SCHOLARSHIP AWARDS **** To encourage college students interested in Business A<ltninistration allld related fields to consider careers in the area of Purchasing, the PURCHASING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF, EASTERN NEW YORK will award~ ~cholarships in the amount of $1000.00 eacb for the 1990-91 academic year. Additionally,. each award includes a one-year drues-free membership in t!)e Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York, and the O[Ppvttunity to attend, at no cost, all educational meetings. and seminars sponsored. by the Association. ELIGIIIILITY: To be eligible, the stu <lent must be presently cmnpleti~g the Sophomore y!!ar, on a fuH-tim..e basis, at a local college or university, and be entering at the ,Jevel of a junior or above during th.e 1990-91 academic year. Sons or daughters of Association me:mbers are also enco\Jraged · to apply, regardle.ss of college or university attended. SELECTION CRITERIA: Awards are to be p.resented at the associatieon's meeting on APRlL 1~ 1990. Awards are intended to be used for educational expenses du!ring the 1990-91 acadeniic year. The student and the school will be notified of the award deeis[ens on or about ~lUL 1, 1990. TO APPJ;,Y: To apply for the award, the student should obtain an app!Lcation fm::mfrom the office of the Department Chairperson, Director of Counseling Advisor or ))!\rector of Financiai Aid or by contacting: · JANE S. GORZELNIK, DIREC\I'Olt1 BUSHffiSS SERVICES HUDSON VALLEY COMMUNITY COLLEG:E 45 VANDENBURGH AVENUE TROY, NEW YORK 12180 (518) 270-1519 APPLICATiON'S: Applications are due on or before MARCH lS, 19!)0. Applications must include: 1) COMPLETED STUDENT APPLICATION FORM. 2) COMPLETED FACUL'IY RECOMMENDATION, PROPERLY SIGNEI) AND SENT UNDER ~EPAllATE COVER. 3) OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT OF GRADE;;$ FROM ALL COLLEGES OR UNIVERSITIES A'ITENDED. All parts of the application should be mailed to Jane S. Gonelnik at th•! above address. *Union has had 2 winners in the past. *This award is given only in this region. Independent Chaos 35 Relatives 9 Wing Wong 3 Mikedoes 3 WRUC TRIVIA UPDATE Dorm Smith House 8 Team Ed/ 6 Webster Cl.iff Heads/ 1 West College Greek Phi -oelta Theta/ Wasted Goats Kappa Sigma TUNE IN THIS SUNDAY - AT 8:00 P.M. .I WRUC _ . J . - 89.7 ,_ STEKG • 6 3 J

v \ . CONCORDIENSIS, March 1, 1990 Page 19 .SPORTS Jeny Brescia finishes Union Career With Every 3-pt Shooting Recerd 8y Sports Jn.formati6n Prior to the start of the varsity basketball t-eam's game on Tuesday night, senior Jerry ·Brescia was honO;red for his outstanding perfomance during the season of his t:wo years of service on the varsity team. Brescia is thus the recipient of this· week's Athlete of the Week Award. In his two seasons in the vars.ity uniform, Brescia has set all of Union's three-point records. Entering Tuesday's game against Hamilton, he had connected on 128 of 292 attempts (43.8%) and also holds the ·college records for consecutive three point baskets (8) and three point baskets· in a game(lO). This season, he has hit 33 of 43 three pointers. lie~ has converted on 109 ()f 247 field . goals and has 88 reboands and 66 assists. In his two :y~s on the varsity team, ·he has scored 553 points, including 384 points on three pointers. alone. Jerry is one of tile team's co- captains and will be sorely missed nex~ seasoll. Men's Swimming Finishes Strong Year By ANDY WAGSHUL After compiliilg the first winning record in 21 years of Union College Men's Swimming, it seemed as if we were a team of destiny. A team headed towards greatness, with .nothing able to stop us now except maybe the K-Mart trained driving skills of our coaches, with wh(}m we entrusted our Lives to get us safely to the University of Buffalo for the Upper N.Y. State Swimming Championships. :Here tbe team would come QP against 16 other teams coming from Division 1, 2, & 3 schools, in what is considered the second- most competitive state meet in the country for this level. What could possibly be more exciting than this'] Amazingly e:nough, our coaches got us there in one piece; it appeared the rest of the week would be smooth sailing. We, along wit:h the other teams, stayed in tile lux.urious accommodations of the finest Hqliday Inn in the area. Armed with razors, clip~rs, and lots of shaving cream we proceeaed to create the hoters and maid's worst nightmares come true. After mutilating cur bodies for a couple of b.ours, we were slick, sleek, and ready to go faSt; not to mention covered with lots of razor burns and cuts, displaying the most awesome hair cuts imaginable. On the first day, we let the world (or at least the people at the meet) know that Union Swimming had arrived. We invaded St. Lawrence's bench space (whieh created a pleasant encounter when they arrived), hung up ridiculous signs, and yelled obnoxipus cheers, much to the dismay of our coaches. We knew that if we couldn't win in the water we would sure win on deck - intimidation, it's a great thing. We were now ready to swim, and swim well we did. We captured tenth place at the end of the day, Which was the main goal. To make it into the top ten is a great accomplishment. The 200 freestyle relay of Chris Walsh, Joe Kowalski, Frank Avason, and Kevin Wilbur finished 14th. (The top 24 in every event score.) In the 200 yard I.M. Andy Wagshul finished 17th and Tony Tremaglio set a new school record by half a second, finishing 12th out of about 65 swimmers. Freshman Dave Robinson, who rewrote the school records in his first meet finished 7th out of 26 divers in the 1-meter competition. The last event of the day was the 400 medley relay composed of Sven Zabk:a, Tremaglio, Cliff Congratulations to the JET SONS·! The 1990 Women's BROOMBALL CHAMPIONS their .victory was over. the Hackers at a score of 2-1 Shaw, and Wagsh11l. They · finished first and set a new · school record to give Union lOth place overall ()Ut of 17 teams, one point ahead of Hobart. On the second day we . continued to swim welL The 200 medley relay te~rn of the above foursome again set another school r~cord in finishing in the eharnp!onship heat in 6th plac~. l11 the 100 The team compet~d . • . in what is considered the second-most c ornpetitive state meet in the country. butterfly Shaw £i.nisbed 16th; in the 200 freestyle Wagshul finished 13th; in the 100 breaststroke T()ny fi11ished in 16th while breaking; another school record whieh llad stood for some 15 years; and in the 100 backstroke Sven tied for 9th and Shaw finished in 22nd. To finish out the day, :the familiar foursome stroked to their second 9th pla.ce, while the other relay of Walsh, Buchin, Lynch.. and Fraiji .firlished24th. Despite the great swimming, we: fell into 11th place, half a poiiit behind Hobart, who had outnumbered us in the finals .a11d yet couldn't pull away from u.'S. Tb.e last day was a dogfight for lOth place, b11t Hobart and St. Lawrence (who we <;lid become friendly with in the end) out-manned us in' the end. We finished ll tb. overall, 116.5 points ahead of the 12th place team and .55 points out of 10th. The higl1lighted swims of the day were Shaw finishing in 15th place in the 200 backstroke, Wagsh. ul getting 19th in the 100 frecestyle and Tremaglio taki11g 12th in the 200 breaststroke while setting one more record. In the 3-meter diving Robinson finished 8th, one of only 3 Divisicn 3 divers in the top eight. T() finish out Continued ()D page 18 outhing Off What Do You Mean I'll Never Be An Odds Maker? By AN])¥ BRAVER Sports Editor A few montbs ago, I took a great step,, From that day forward, I have beea trying to get my foot out of my mouth, or more specifically, out of my · wit and insigllt. I have been hoping that, with time, my premonitions and thoughtless predictions would come to fruition. Unfortunately, my proverbial fo()t is .still stuck in my clouded judgement and expertise. In the October 5, 1989 issue of this newsp~per, I made the mistake of writing about hockey instead of the baseball playoffs. ·r mistakenly put my heart where rny mouth is (or hands are) supposed to be and tried objectively to predict the winners and. losers in the National IIuckey League this season. I found it hard to believe that I could actually put my name to such a preposterous piece of work when I read it over a few days ago. Ifs not that it was poorly written or that the facts · were incorrect. In fact, it was fairly entertaining to read over. That is because I was wrong. I was wrong nn just about everything tbat I thought I foresaw. What happe11ed to create such a poor piece of journalism or expertise I do not know. The only thing that I am sure of is tllat in order to save face and preserve my reputation, one of two things must occur: either everythin.g 1 predicted must continue to be wrong throughout th.e end of the regular season into the playoffs; ill which cas'e I will be seen as an e:x-expert; or my playoff wisd()m will actually be true t() f<lrm, in which case the regular season embarrassrne11t will be looked upon as a flUke and I will once again be Ie.vered as a soon-to- be-ex-expert. The way my luck is going, rigllt now I'd have to predict it will be the former. Anyway.. 1 would like to analyze my- ():riginal predictions and see ex.ac;tly where I went wrong. I need to know if I was temporaril)' insane, or if the conditio!l ispennanent. In October, I saw Lord Stanley's Ci.1p and thought of two words: Calgary Flames. (Now I see two different words, Who KlloVJs, and two Alka- Seltzers.) ihe once dominant Flames V!en.t almost a month without a win earlier in the season. 'Though they are · .battling far the lead in their division~ the Flames also have more competition than most of us 'experts 9 believed they would have. I sav; the Edmonton Oilers a11d Los Angeles Kings as battling for second in the division. In actuality. Edmonton is battling witl1 Calgary for the top spot, while the Kings are toiling in doldrums of fourth place. Not only is Los Angeles' defense terrible, but their ··internal bickering and discontent has taken a team on the verge of winning a Stanley Cup to the undesirable position of struggling to finish the season with a .500 winning percentage. The Winnipeg Jets will definitely finish above .500. In fact, they will make the playoffs and b.ave a good shot of advancing all the way . to the Campbell Conference Finals. They have won five of the six meetings with the Flames this year and seem to play very tough defensively against high-,.scoring opponents. And then there is the Vancouver Canucks. I saw them as battling for second. I was partially right. They have a shot at being the second worst team in the entire league. In the Norris Division, I saw the Chicago Blackhawks on top, and they are. But their main competition ( so I thought), Detroit, is battling to get out of the cellar. The Red Wings have recovered from their horrendous start, however, and will probably be the dark horse. I had originally seen S t Louis or Toronto in that role, but, much to my dismay, they are playing too well to be dark horses. In the Adams, Montreal is running away with. nothing. The Canadiens are third in the league's best division, battling with. Boston and Ruffalo for first place. Hartford is too far behind the leaders to be a factor. The Quebec Nordiques are nothing. They would be one of the worst teams in the International Hockey League. Unfortunately, the return of Michel Bergeron had the opposite effect on this once competitive franchise - ile drove them into a deeper hole · and Guy Lafleur is a decade past his prime. And finally, the Patrick Division. I was right about one ·of the two non-playoff teams - the Philadelphia Flyers have .found their home for the rest of the season in last place. That is where I was positive the New York Islanders would be because they lacked talent. However, they seem to have decided that they do not need arty. Quebec is losing with talent, whey can't the Islanders win without it? And then there is flrst place. The Penguins and Mario Lemieux never made it. He is great, but if he can't skate, his team won't make the Continued on page 18

0 b 5: U..J ... 1.1. Union's Steve Listzwan blows out of the starting gate leaving the Rochester skier in his tracks. Mter faliling to Mercyhurst on Tuesday, Union fin:i!lhed the season at 16a8~3. Women's Basketball Wins 3 of Final 4 Games By RO~ BIR:\>>BAl 1 \1 The past two weeks have been a good scason-ender for the Union Women's Varsity Basketball team. Their final three aW;J}' games \\ere victories at Plattsburgh (7-+- 53), Vassar (70--+7) and Skidmore (63-56). The season's last game was at home vs. RPI. This game turned out tu be a heartbreaking one-point (57-56) loss and the Lady Dutchmen fini::,hcd 11-12. r n the thrt:c away games Cnion's offense wa:-; potent and LH~i.tniD.:d, and the t'ntirc team played w1th intensity and togetherness. Currently Cnion has the two highest scorers in the capital disLrict in senior guard Gina Prokosch and sophomore forward Robin Romer. Prokosch and Romer averaged 18 and 22 points, respectively, in these three games. Plattsburgh ·was simply not a good team, entering the game with a 3-16 record. With poor ball- and self-control on the court, the Cardin1ls sent Union to the free-throw line 44 times. Tn addition, tlle Lady Dutchmen were able to outhustle Plattsburgh as they greatly needed the win and were ready to fight for it. In the Vassar game, Union shot v.cll unci their intensity level was up. The defense pbyed particularly well and took the Vassar players out of their offense to pull ahead hy 21. points by the end of the game. Against Skidmore, Union's tenacious defense came through <mce again. With the exception <Jf the first eight minutes of the ~econd half, during which neither team scored, this was a hrilliantly played game. While Skidmore began to sink several three-point shots toward the end of the second half, the Union lead was large enough by then for this to make little difference. Though the Thoroughbreds did have a few tough players, they needed more to beat Union. According to head coach Bonnie Gehling, Union was a better team in all than they had been for most of the season. The defense, always Union's strong suit, provided great scoring opportunities, and everyone contributed to the team's success. Aside from Prokosch and Romer, other high scorers included sophomore for,vard k3I1 Lopata and senior guard Wendy Vincent. RPI has been ranked in the state, jumping in and out of the regional top ten all season. RPI has always been a big rival in the past, and Union has generally played well against them. Last year the Lady Dutchmen lost by only four points. This year, things got off to a slow start in the first half. The players were evidently wound too tight, as poor shot selection and defensive breakdowns abounded. In the second half, Union had its chances to tie the game, but could not capitlize on RPI's mistakes. The Lady Dutchmen played hard and shot well, but it wasn't enough to beat the Engineers. As the team will not be going to the playoffs, coach Gehling wishes the two team captains, seniors Wendy Vincent and Gina Prokosch, all the besl. With the los-. of these two seniors, the squad is losing an average of 34 points per game. Though next year's team will be more experienced with more upperclassmen, much will depend on the freshmen and how well they arc able to fill the guard position. All in all, this has been a good seac;on for women's varsity basketball at Union, as they came very close to achieving their .500 goal. SPRING TRAINING IS STILL NOT COMING TO A BALLPARK NEAR YOU. March 1, 1990 Skating Dutchmen Stunned By Lakers, S-4 Mercyhurst Hangs On to Eliminate Union In First Round of ECAC's 13::;- ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief In what was almost a fitting ending to a season in which the Dutchmen were plagued by inconsistency and a profound difficulty with weaker opponents, the Union hockey team fell victim to the visiting Mercyhurst College Lakers, 5- 4, Tuesday night at Achilles Rink. The loss eliminated Union from the ECAC West Playoffs, a tournament that the Dutchmen finished as runner- up in last season. The missing element from Union's game was \the playoff edge.\ The defeat also signaled the end of the college hockey careers of one of the strongest classes of seniors that Union College has ever seen. Nick Baratoff, Peter Co tier, Marc Goguen, Dan Gould, Darrell Gustafson, Ron Kinghorn, and Guy Logan will all be graduating this spring. \The remainder of the game was a race against tile clock. The clock did not have to contend with an opponent, though.\ Union outshot Mercyhurst, 19- I 7, in the third period as the Dutchmen furiously and frantically tried to pull even. The third period began with the Lakcrs holding a 4-3 lead, but the Dutchmen had wrested the momentum away toward the close of the second period. But when Scott Burfoot intercepted a clearing pass deep in the Union zone and beat Kinghorn, the Dutchmen had dug themselves a hole too deep for even as mighty an effort as they could muster. Dalton Menhall did pull Union to within one when he picked up the rebound of Scott Whitney's shot and buried it past Mercyhurst goaltender Gary Bowles. That left the Dutchmen one goal down with 11-1/2 minutes remaining. The remainder of the game was a race against the clock for Union. The Union players and the clock both kept going steadily toward their objectives right up until the end. The difference was, though, that the clock did not have to contend with an opposition that was content to force the Dutchmen to constantly reset, by gently nudging the puck toward the less frantic pastures of Union ice. \They played good hockey,\ said Union head coach Bruce Delventhal. \Tonight we just didn't have a good playoff edge and a good team beat us.\ Logan put the Dutchmen on top early, when he jammed home a rebound on a power- play just 2:22 into the game. For the two-year co-captain, the goal was his 66th career, breaking a tie with Rod Fobate for second place on the aU- time Union list. When Mercyhurst was called for another penalty just eight seconds after Logan's goal, it looked like the Dutchmen were going to enjoy an easy night en route to their sixth consecutive win. The Lakers' Scott Burfoot, for one, had other ideas. With his team shorthanded, Burfoot, who would finish with a hat trick, stole the puck in Dutchman ice. He snapped into the near side past Kinghorn and, lickety-split, the Lakers were here to play. Exactly three minutes later, at 6:44 of the first period, it would become apparent the Dutchmen were not going to put on one of th~ir more memorable exhibitions. Shaun Cyr, barely across the center red-line, wound up and fired a humpback line drive of a slap shot over the riglll shoulder of Kinghorn and inta the top left comer of the net. At 11 : 21 , the Lakers finally got a goal that they truly deserved. Burfaot and his linemate, Scott Pauerson, exchanged passes as they carne into the Union zOtne. The final feed was right in to the goal mouth, where Burfoot was waiting, and aft~r he slid the puck in, Mercyhurst had exploded to a 3-21ead. Jn the second Jlleriod, just as would be the case in the third, it looked like thlc Dutchmen were poised to make a comeback. Scott Whimey, who finished with three points on the night, fired a low drive through a screen for a power- play goal at 1:32. \Tonight we just didn't h3ve a good p-layoff edge all d a good tellm beat u~.\ When Menh:all took a tripping penalty at 2:51, however, Union would continue to sputter. Micky Keen. a small but speedy wing, scored 59 seco11ds in to the penalty and the Lakers had re- esmblished a two-goal lead. The Dutchmen again looked like they were g<Oing to catch MeFcyhurst when, at 10:12, Tim Cregan took a bank pass from Greg Eccles.ton and found himself all a;l{)ne against Bowles. Crega11 shot low, scored and made the score 4-3. In commenting on the season, an obviously disappinted Delventhal did find some words of e11couragcment for this team. \I think we did overachieve,\ he said. \I think we have overachieved. That's a credit to these kic!s.\ Union, despite being outshot 19-9 in the first{juarter, ended up outshooting Mcrcyhurst by a count of 43-35.

•. ~ 5 en z w > w In w :l ...J § 1D g 0 I 0.. Union's Steve Listzwan blows out of the starUng gate leaving the Rochester skier ,In his tracks. After faiHng to Mercyhurst on Tuesday, Union finished the season at 16&8·3. Women's Basketball Wins 3 of Final 4 Games By RON BIRNBAUM The past two weeks have been a good season-ender for the Union Women's Varsity Basketball team. Their final three away games were victories at Plattsburgh (74- 53), Vassar (70-4 7) and Skidmore (63-56). The season's last game was at home vs. RPI. This game turned out to be a heartbreaking one-point (57-56) loss and the Lady Dutchmen finished 11-12. In the three away games. Union's offense was potent and organized, and the entire team played with intensity and togetherness. Currently Union has the two highest scorers in the capital district in senior guard Gina Prokosch and sophomore forward Robin Romer. Prokosch and Romer averaged 18 and 22 points, respectively,. in these three games. Plattsburgh was simply not a good team,. entering the game with a 3-16 record. With poor ball- and self-control on the court, the Cardinals sent Union to the free-thr:ow line 44 times. In addition, the Lady Dutchmen were able to outhustle Plattsburgh as they greatly needed the win and were ready to fight for it. In the Vassar game, Union shot well and their intensity level was up. The defense played particularly well and took the Vassar players out of their offense to pull ahead by 23 points by the end of the game. Against Skidmore, Union's tenacious defense came through once again. With the exception of the first eight minutes of the second half, during which neither team scored, this was a brilliantly played game. While Skidmore began to sink several three-point shots toward the end of the second half, the Union lead was large enough by then for this to make little difference. Though the Thoroughbreds did have a few tough players, they needed more to beat Union. According to head coach Bon.nie Gehling, Union was a better team in all than they had been for most of the season. The defense, always Union's strong suit, provided great scoring opportunities, and everyone contributed to the team's success. Aside from Prokosch and Romer, other high scorers included sophomore fmward Jean Lopata and senior guard Wendy Vincent. RPI has been ranked in the state, jumping in and out of the regional top ten all season. RPI has always been a big rival in the past, and Union has generally played well against them. Last year the Lady Dutchmen lost by only four poiats. This year, things got off to a slow start in the first half. The players were evidently wound too tight, as poo1 shot selection and defensive breakdowns abounded. In the second half, Union had its chances to tie the game, but could not capitlize on RPI's mistakes. The Lady Dutchmen played hard and shot well, but it wasn't enough to beat the Engineers. As the team will not be going to the playoffs, coach Geh.ling wishes the two team captains, seniors Wen.dy Vincent and Gina Prokosch, all the best. With the loss of these two seniors, the squad is losing an average of 34 points per game. Though next year's team will be more experienced with more upperclassmen, much will depend on the freshmen and how well they are able to fill the guard position. All in all, this has been a good season for women's varsity basketball at Union, as they came very close to achieving their .500 goaL SPRING TRAINING IS STILL NOT COMING TO A BALLPARK NEAR YOU. March 1, 1990 Skating Dutchmen Stunned By Lakers, 5-4 Mercyhurst Hangs On to Eliminate Union In First Round of ECAC's By ANDREW SEEWALD EdHo.r-in-Chief In what was almost a fitting ending to a season in which the Dutchmen were plagued by inconsistency and a profound difficulty with weaker opponents, the Union hockey team fell victim to the visiting Mercyhurst College Lakers, 5- 4, Tuesday night at Achilles Rink. The loss eliminated Union from the ECAC West ~ Playoffs, a tournament that the Dutchmen finished as runner- up in last season. The missing element from Union's game was \the playoff edge.\ The defeat also signaled the end of the college hockey careers of one of the strongest classes of seniors that Union College has ever seen. Nick Baratoff, Peter Cotier, Marc Goguen, Dan Gould; Darrell Gustafson, Ron Kinghorn, and Guy Logan will all be graduating this spring. \The remainder of the game was a race against the clock. The clock did not have to contend with an opponent, th()ugh.\ Union outshot Mercyhurst, 19-17, in the third period as the Dutchmen furiously and frantically tried to pull even. The third period began with the Lake-rs holding a 4-3 lead, but the Dutchmen had wrested the momentum away toward the close of the second period. But when Scott Burfoot intercepted a clearing pass deep in the Union zone and beat Kinghorn. the Dutchmen had dug themselves a hole too deep for even as mighty an effort as they could muster. Dalton Merthall did pull Union to within one when he picked up the rebound of Scott Whitney's shot and buried it past Mercyhurst goalte.nder Gary Bowles. That left the Dutchmen one goal down with .tl-1/2 minutes remaining. 'the remainder of the game was a race against the clock for Union. The Union players and the clock both kept going steadily toward their objectives right up until the end. The difference was, though; that the clock did not have to contend with an opposition that was content to force the Dutchmen to constantly reset, by gently nudging the puck toward the less frantic pastures of Union ice. \They played good hockey,\ said Union head coach Bruce Delventbal. \Tonight we )ust didn't have a good playoff edge and a good team beat us.\ Logan put the Dutchmen on top early' when he jammed home a rebound on a power- play just 2:.22 into the game. For the two-year co-captain, the goal was his 66th career, breaking a tie with Rod Fobate for second place on the all- time Union list When Mercyhurst was called for another penalty j.ust eight seconds after Logan's goal, it looked like the· Dutchmen were ,going to enjoy an easy night en route to their sixth consecutive win. The Lakers' Scott Burfoot, for one, had o.ther ideas. With his team shorthanded, Burfoot, who would finish with a hat trick, stole the puck in Dutchman ice. He snapped into the near side past Kinghorn and, lickety.,split, the Lakers were here to play. Exactly three minutes later, at 6:44 of the first period, it would become apparent the Dutchmen were not going to put on one ,of th~ir more memorable exhibitions. Shaun Cyr, barely across the center red-line, wound up and fired a humpback line drive of a slap shot over the right shoulder of Kinghorn and into the top <left comer of the net. At 11:21, the Lakers finally got a goal that they truly deserved. Burfoot. and his linemate, Scott Patterson., exchanged passes as they came into the Union zone. The final feed was right in to the goal mouth., where Burfoot was waiting, and after he slid the pu.ck in, Mercyhurst had expi<Xled to a 3-2lead. ln the second period, just as would be the case in the third. it looked like the Dutchm~n were poised to make a comeback. Scott Whitney, who finished with three points on the night, fired a low drive tluough a screen for a power- play ·goal at 1:32. \Tonight we just didn't have a good playoff edge and a good team beat US, n vrhen Menhall took a tripping penalty at 2:51, however, Union would continue to sputter. Micky Keen, a small but speedy wing. scored 59 seconds into the penalty and the Lakers had re- established a two-goal lead. Tbe Dutchmen again looked like they were going to catch Mercyhurst when, at 10:12, Tim Cregan took a bank pass from Greg Eccleston and found bim-self all alone against Bowles. Cregan shot low, scored and made the score4-3. In commenting on the sea.son, an obviously disappinted Delventhal did find some words of encouragement for this team. \I .think we did overachieve,\ he said. \I think we )lave overachieved. That's a credit to these kids.\ Union, despite being outshot 19·9 in the first quarter, ended up ou.tshooting Mercyhurst by a count of 43-35.

]: Vol. CXIX, No. 16 Alleged Date Rapist Revealed To Dean of Students Anonymous Letter Gives Name By R. REED WHID>DEN Editor•in·Chier Joseph Mammola. dean of studcnts 7 recently received a letter accusing a certain student of committing several .sex crimes. Tile letter was anonymous and implied that it was written from the perspective of a group who either knew of these alleged crimes or were victims of them. The authors of the letter · stated that ''X\ (name withheld by the Dean of Stud:ents' Office) (has) committed crimes of sexual acts against · · numerous girls... (He) attempcd to rape many girls, in casual encounters. who were his friends at Union College. In some cases he was successful, and forced intercourse on girls who clearly said no.\ Tile student against whom the letter makes allegations met with Marnmola last week. After being made aware of the claims made against him. the St11dcnt \absolutely denied the· allegations,\ according to Manunola. The letter also outlined steps that the authors would take if the Administration chooses not to take action. The steps would be to \gather together a petition, take legal action.\ and · Continued on page 3 Schenectady, New York Minor Revisions Made in 1990-91 Acad.emic Calendar After extensive discussion, the College has decided to stay· with a mid-September start for the academic year 1990/91. At its meeting of February 15, 1990,. the AAC passed a resolution which stated that \The AAC makes no new recommendations to the Administration regarding the academic calendar. The Administration should use its best judgment in dealing with the coming year's calendar paying attention to the issues raised in this body.\ It is apparent that detennining the starting date. under Union's three t~rm calendar is a very complex task. It . may in fact be impossible to reconcile the competing' values that are at issue. However, for the sake of providing some predictability as to starting dates, the President intends to appoint a committee which can provide him with advice on starting dates for the five year period beginning in 1991/92. In approaching its task the Committee need not be bound · by an assumption that all five years must have either a \late start\ or an \early start.\ To the contrary, tbe Committee should recognize that either a late start or an early start may be appropriate in any given year depending on a variety of factors including the date of commencement. the date of Thanksgiving and the dates of religious holidays. The Committee will be asked to report before the end of the spring tenn. It did become dear in discussions of the 1990/91 calendar tllat a small change in the starting date for next fall would yield two benefits. A starting date of Monday, September 17 rather than a . starting date of Wednesday. September 19 produces two benefits: 1) creation of a four day fall break running from Saturday. October 20 through. Tuesday. October 23; and 2) avoiding a conflict between the: first two days of class and a religious lloliday, a conflict that poses a painful dilemma for a substantial number of incoming freshmen. March 8, 1990 West College Survives W e.ekend Fire By ELISE FOODY News Editor Procedures are returning to normal in the dining area of West Coll~ge. This p;ast weekend a small fire was extinguished in the kitchell of .. the residence hall. At approximately 3:40 in the afternoon on Saturday a small fire was observed on tlle left front side of a combined oven and grill in the kitchen, A · production chef on duty at the time was able to suppress the fire by using a nearby fire extinguisher. When he was finished working for the <lay, h.e notified his supervisor of the occurrence and mentioned · the possibility of someone checking the area for .any fmther problems. Less than an hour after the . initial fire, a second fire ignited at the same location. This time, however, a fire extinguisher would not suppress the flames which were between six and eighteen inches high. At this point, the supervisor called Campus Security for assistance. lJ(lon · the arrival of Security. the residence hall was evacuated and procedures were begun to quemch the fire. Mter activating the dry powder fire extinguishing system, Security was able to take care of the fire. Tbe Schenectady Fire Department was called as a pr~c.sutionary measure, but before they arrived on Lhe scene. Campus Security had already controlled the fire. West Dining Service reopened for students on Tuesday morning for breakfast. According to Jan Gray, Director of Food Services, studc11ts were directed to the Dutch Holl()w Restaurant and the Rathskellar for obtaining meals in tbe interim. To accommodate the influx of · additional students, extra employees and food were sent to these dining facilities. The College also contracted an outside cleaning company to assist them in cleaning up the dirt which resulted from using the dry powder fire extinguishing system. A health inspector was also called in to reaffirm that the dining facility was in order and ready again for business. PHOTO OF THE WEE.K: Conc()rdlensl& advicep for finals week •• don't look back, Spring 1errn Is fight around the corner.

Vol. CXIX,. No. 16 Alleged Date Rapist Revealed To Dean of Students Anonymous Letter Gives Name By R. REED WHIDDEN Editor-in-Chief Joseph Mammola, dean of students, recently received a letter accusing a certain student of committing several sex crimes. The letter was ' anonymous and implied that it was written from the perspective of a group who eiLhcr knew of these alleged crimes or were victims of them. The authors of the letter stated that \X\ (name withheld by the Dean of Students' Office) (has) committed crimes of sexual acts against numerous girls... (He) attcmpcd to rape many girls, in casual encounters~ who were his friends at Union College. In some cases he was successful, and forced intercourse on girls who clearly said no.\ The student against whom the kttcr makes allegations met with Mammola last week. After being made aware of the claims made against him, the student \absolu~tely denied the allegations,\ according to Mammola. The letter also outlined steps that the authors w<Juld take if the Administration chooses not to take action. The steps would be to \gather together a petition, lake legal action,\ and Continued ClD page 3 Schenectady, New York Sel*l:mber 12. . :Fresnmar~;{rWi~mation.·be.g;ins .. .·: Minor Revisions Made in 1990-91 Academic Calendar After extensive discussion, the College has decided to stay with a mid-September start for the academic year 1990/91. At its meeting of February 15, 1990, the AAC passed a resolution which stated that \The AAC makes no new recommendations to the Administration regarding the academic calendar. The Administration should use its best judgment in dealing with the coming year's calendar paying attention to the issues raised in this body.\ It is apparent that determining the starting date under Union's three term calendar is a very complex task. It may in fact be impossible to reconcile the competing values that are at issue. However, for the sake of providing some predictability as to starting dates, the President intends to appoint a committee which can provide him with advice on starting dates for the five year period beginning in 1991(92. In approaching its task the Committee need not be bound by an assumption that all five years must have either a \late start\ or an\ early start.\ To the contrary, the Committee should rec1>gnize that either a late start or an early start may be approprialle in any given year depending on a variety of factors ind11ding the date of commencement, the date of Thanksgiving and the dates of religious holidays. The Committee will be asked to report before the end of the spring term. I L did become clear in discussions rof the 1990/91 calendar that a small change in the starti11g date for next fall would yield two benefits. A starting datce of Monday, September 17 rather than a starting date of Wednesday, September 19 produces two benefits: I) CR'eation of a four day fall break running from Saturday, Dcttober 20 through Tuesday, October 23; and 2) avoiding a. conflict between the first two <lay:s of class and a t•eligious :lloliday, a conflict that poses a :painful dilemma for a subs tamtial number of incoming freshmen. March 8, 1990 0 1- 0 ::r: Cl. IJ.J ::! u. West College Survives Weekend Fire By ELISE FOODY News Editor ProcedUI'es are returning to normal in the dining area of West College. This past weekend a. small fire was extinguished in the kitchen of the residence hall. At approximately 3:40 in the afternoon on Saturday a small fife was observed on the left front side of a combined oven and grill in the kitchen. A production chef on duty at the time was able to suppress the fire by usi.ng a nearby fire extinguisher. When he was finished wDrking for the day, lle notified his supervisor of the occurrence and mentioned the possibility of someo11e checking the area for any further problems. Less tha11 an h.our after the initial fire, a second fire ignited at the same location. This time, however, a fire extinguisher would not s11ppress the flames which were between six: and eighteen i11chcs high. At this point, the supervisor called Campus Security for assistance. Upon tbe arrival of Security, the rcsid~:ncc hall was evacuated and procedures were begun to quench the fire. After activating the dry powder fire extinguishing system, Se<:urity was able to take care of the fire. The Schenectady Fire Department was called as a prt:c~utionary measure, but before they arrived 011 the scene, Campus Sccllrity had already controlled the fire. West Dining Service reopened for students on Tuesday morning for breakfast. According to Jan Gray, Director of Food Scrvi<:cs, students were directed to the Dutch Hollow Restaurant and the Rathskellar for obtaining meals in the interim. To accommodate the influ1e of · addi tiona I students, extra employees and food were sent to these dining facilities. The College also contracted an outside cleaning company to assist them in cleaning up the dirt which resulted from using the dry powd~r fire extinguishing system. A nealth inspector was also ca.lled in to reaffirm that the dining f2cility was in order and ready again for business. PHOTO Of THE WEEK: Concordlensls advice for finals week-· don't look back, Spring Term is right around the corner.

Pl!lge .. 2 . CONCORDJENSJS, March .8, 1990 ·- Clrilitrnrbirttsis NEWS ANALYSIS SPAA Aids Schenectady Food Pantry ·with issues sucb as unnecessary animal testing, investment in South Africa and the recent money problems of Schenectady Food Pant.J;y. The Food Pantry· is currently experiencing financial difficulties including the termination of their 1990 budget by mid-spring, due to lack of incoming funds. Almost 17,000 peop'le received assistance in 1988. Without the support of U!e Food Pan, try, many of these people, incLuding the elderly and young children, will go hungry. With the assistance of Dining Services an.d . Jan Grey, Students for Political Awareness and Action raised over $100 through student donations, for the benefit of the Schenectady Food Pantry. Anyone interested in contrihtlting further to ·Schenectady Food Pantry please contact them directly at 346-4445. Any assistance is welcomed and urgently needed, . While winter term has been aimed primarily a~ awateQess, next term we have· already planned several campHs-wide ev·ents, including the celehration of .the 20th anniversary of Earth Day on April 22nd and assorted activities for Parent's Weekend. In addition, early in the term we wefcome William Sloane Coffin, Jr... America's last Pe.acenik, to Union. Anyone interested in participating in Students for Political Awareness and Action, come to SPAA meetings in the spring, By JULIE DAVIS and JENNIFER HOLMES Winter term 1990 has been extremely busy for Students for Political Awareness and Action. We began a new format for our meetings. It involved a discussion session each week on various topics including Central America, South Africa, animal rights, conservatism/ liberalism at Union, and the developments in Panama early in the term. We publici.zed the topics of discussion each week., so that those interested, including noR- members, could pattidp-.atc .. This furthered our task of promoting awareness 011 campus. Next term we '!Lave already enlisted faculty to aid us in our discussions. ·Outside our meetings, SP'AA recently sponsored all Awareness Week that dealt . held Mondays at 7:30 in CC 203. Apartheid Sparks Activism on U.S. Campuses Courtesy of NSNS In early February, the government of South Africa legalized the African N atiDnal Congress and freed its leader, Nelson Mandcla, after 27 )'eaTS in prison-- and American students are taking some credit. Throughout the 19&0s, students on U.S. campuses led the fight for divestment or companies doing business in South Africa and for economic sanctions against the South African government. Over the course of the decade, students pressured 60 schools-- from Columbia University in New York to the University of Hawaii-- to divest. Their campaigns often met staunch opposition from college administrators and trustees as well as members of the student body. Since the divestment movement began, some students have argued that economic pressure only hurts the blacks of South Africa. But those who have fought to change schools' investment policies say that recent events in South Africa vindicate tile power of divestment and economic sanctions to win reform. \What's happening in South Africa is not the end of apartheid, but it is an important victory,\ says Richard Knight of the Africa Fund, an organization that supports anti-apartheid campaigns across the United States. \It's a victory not just for the people of South Africa, but for tile international movement. I think that it's really important that those students wbo' sat in cold shanties on their campuses or worked in anti-apartheid coalitiQl:IS realize that it's their victory as well.\ In recruiting supporters fur across the country arc urg;'ing their communities to \vote\ for democracy in S0t1th Africa:and for continued sanctions agajllst its apartheid government. The nationwide cam!)an;gn> \Vote for Sanctions, Vcte for the People,\ organized :by the Africa Fund, involves sHtdeats on doze.ns of campuses~ including the Uni versitr of Illinois at Urbana and tbe South Africa\) and on sanctions {\Yes I vote for comprehensive mandatory sanctions now,\ or, \No I don't want to pres.sure the · white minority govermcnt to end apartheid\). · The Africa Fund's Knight says that the campaign is a way for students to continue to campaign for change in South Africa. \The basic: Africa. Tony Zagotta, national chair of the College Republicans, argues that the divestment movement and trade sanctions against South Africa actually .hurt South Africans by depriving them of jobs and economic power in their society. \Black South Africans have to take advantage of free market economies to win their freedom,\ he says. Mi\ndi·ng the Universitr:'s .B~s~ness. Colleges and Universities Divesting from Companies thaaDo Bus mess m South Afr1ca Zagotta, who has visited South Africa three times, also disputes Nelson Mandela's claim to leadership of South African blacks. Outside the large cities, he says, black South Africans' primary allegiances are to tribal heads like the Zulu leader Buthelezi who opposes sanctions. Zagotta says .such leaders \should be the first invited to the negotiating table.\ D Substantively revised panlal dlvestrnent Q Total dh1estment revised from partial • Partial divestm~nl • Total divestment• 1977 1979 1981 Leaders on both sides of the issue believe that student campaigns on the aparLheid issue show a broad student willingness to take on issues that are important to them. • in<:ludos phaS<Id totol dive3tment plans ... ltlrough Juno, 198S So11rce: Investor Responsibility Res-aarch Center, Washington, D.C. NSNS \Some people are putting out the line that students are less active now,\ says the Africa Fund's Knight. \I think student activism has gotten more complex because there arc more issues; education funding, their campaigns, pro- divestment activists insist that the need for divestment did not end with Mandefu's release. They argue that economic pressure still is necessary to win full citi2enship for South Africa's maj.ol'ity black population. In campaigns to reaffirm support for economic pressure against South Africa, students Claremont Colleges in California. During the week of Much 21st to April 1st, stude:nts active in the campaign will urge members of t!Ieir communities to fill out ballots on South African democracy (\Yes every South Afil~t:an deserves full democracy,\ or \No I don't believe that democracy is the answer for political demand in South Africa is universal adult suffrage-- everybody gets the vote,\ says Knight. Organizers will send completed baUots to tile U.S. Congress . and to South Africa to urge continued sanctions and further reform. Not all students agree that divestment and sanctions are the right policies for bringing freedom to the blacks of South - tuition, and racism on campus have become increasingly important. But still, students are sitting up now and letting .people know that we're going to march with the people of S0uth Africa.\ The U·nion c.o,llege Compute·r Center has openings for positions as Computer Operators Opportunity for advancement. Houts are flexible bn a term bas1s Work study program preferred, however not required App·ly at the Computer Center · Days 8:30-5:00 \ I ( s and to getl the~ als< pH spr: pro I us i l b(lc., Un ad< ftu cau mo 1 vic bik pn Se< ad· de! of phl if inf ca1 ret ail de an no sir 2 2 2 2 . 2

Pa.ge 2 CONCORDJENSIS, March 8, 1990 OJnnror~irttsis NEWS ANALYSIS SPAA Aids Schenectady Food Pantry By JULIE DAVIS and JENNIFER HOLMES Winter tcnn 1990 has been extremely busy for Students for Political A \varcness and Action. We began a new format for (}UT meetings. It involved a disc11ssion session each week on vario tiS topics including Central America, South Africa, animal rights, conservatism/ liberalism at Union, and the developments in Panama early in the term. We publicized the topics of discussion each week, so that those interested, inc lLiding non- members, could participate. This furthered our task of promoting awareness on campus. Next term we have already enlisted faculty to aid us in our discussions. Outside our meetings, SPAA recently sponsored an Awareness Week that dealt with issues such as unnecessary animal testing, investment in South. Africa an<.i the recent money pv()b terns ot Schemectady Food Pantry. The Food Pantry is currerHly experiencing financial difficulties including the termination of their 1990 budget by mid-spring, due to lack of incoming funds. Almost 17,000 people received assistance in 1988. Without the support of the F()od Pantry, many of these people, including the elderly and young chilmen, will go hungry. With the assistance of Dining Services and Ja.n Grey, Students for Political Awareness and AcLion raised over S 100 througf:t student donations, for the benefit of the Schenectady Food. Pantry. Anyone interested in contributing further to Schenectady Food Pantry please contact them directly at 346-4445. Any assistan.ce is welcomed and urgently Heeded. While winter term has been aimed primarily at awareness, next term we have already planned several campus-wide events, including the celebratioH of the 20th aNniversary of Earth Day on April 22nd and assorted activities for Parent's Weekend. In addition, early in the term we welcome WiHiam Sloane Coffin, Jr., America's last Peacenik, to Union. Anyone interested in participating in Students for Political Awareness and Action, come to SPAA meetings in the spring, held Mondays at 7:30 in CC 203. Apartheid Sparks Activism on U.S. Campuses Courtesy of NSJ\'S In early February, the government of South Africa kg:lli.t.cd the African National Congr~ss anJ freed ib leader, :\ c ls~m ManLk h, after 27 years m prison-- and American students arc taking some credit. campaigns across the UnitcJ States. \It's a victory not just for the people of South Africa, but for the internation;..tl movement. I think that it's r~ally important that those students who sat in cold shanties on their campuses or worked in anti-apartheid coalitions realize that it's th..:ir victory as well.\ In recruiting supporters fur across the country are urging their communities to \vote\ for democracy in South Africa and for continued sanctions against its apartheid government. The nationwide campaign, \Vote for Sanctions, Vote for the People,\ organized by the Africa Fund, involves students on dozens of campuses, including the University of Illinois at Urbana and the South Africa\) and on sanctions (\Yes I vote for comprehensive mandatory sanctions now,\ er, \No I don't want to pre-ssure the · white minority gonrment to end apartheid\). The Africa Fund's Knight says that the campaign is a way for students to continue to campaign for change in South Africa. \The basic Africa. Tony Zagotta, national chair of the College Republicans, argues that the div~stment movement and trade sanctions against South Africa actually hurt South Africans by depriving them of jobs ami economic power in their society. \Black South Africans have to take advantage of free market economies to win their freedom,\ he says. Throughout the 1980s, students on U.S. campuses kd the fight for divestment of companies d(}ing business in South Africa and for economic sanctions against the South African government. Over the course of the .decade, students pressured 60 schools-- from Columbia University in New York to the University of Hawaii-- to divest. Their campaigns often met staunch opposition from college administrator!> and trustees a~ well a-; members of the student body. Minding the University's Business. Colleges and Universities Civesting from Companies that Do Bus1ness m South Afnca Zagotta, who has visited South Africa three times, also disputes Nelson Mandela's claim to leadership of South African blacks. Outside the large cities, he says, black South Africans' primary allegiances are to tribal heads like the Zulu leader Buthelezi who opposes sanctions. Zagotta says such leaders \should be the first invited to the negotiating table.\ :__j Substantrvely reVtsed partial divestment D Total dovestment revosed from partial • • Partral dl'lestrr.ent Total diVestment• 1977 1979 • tncludes phased to!aJ divestment p!nn.s • through June. 1989 Leaders on both sides of the issue believe that student campaigns on the apartheid issue show a broad student willingness to take on issues that are important to them. Since the divestment movement began, some students have argued that economic pressure only hurts the blacks of South Africa. But those who liave fought to change schools' investment policies say tllat recent events in South Africa vindicate the power of djvestment anJ economic sanctions to win reform. Source: Investor Responsibility Res':3arch Center. Washington. D.C. NSNS \Some people are putting out the line that students arc less active now,\ says the Africa Fund's Knight. \I think student activism has gotten more complex because there arc more issues; education funding, tuition, and racism on campus have become increasingly important. But still, students are sit.ting up now and letting people know that we're going to march with tile people of South Africa.\ \What's hap-pening in South Africa is not the end of apartheid, but it is an important v-ictory,\ says Richard Knigbt of the Africa Fund, an or~anization that supports anti-apartheid their campaigns, pro- divestment activists insist that the need for divestment did not end with Mandela's release. They argue that economic pressure still is necessary to win full citizenship for South Africa's majority black popu Iation. In campaigns to reaffirm support for economic pressure against South Africa~ students .. ,.,, .. ,' ····: ... ,,.,,., · :~:. . .. -.···.;·.--:••;u.~· .. ·:· :··s·,:···.. .' ··,:;]\''':·:··:: • · 'i ATTEN'TION All STUDENTS Anyone interested in being involved with subscriptions next term, please call Cheri at 381 ... 1660. It only requires 1·2 hours a week* Claremont Colleges in California. During the week of March 21st to April 1st, students active in the campaign will urge members of their communities to fill out ballots on South African democracy (\Yes every South African deserves full democracy,\ or \No I don't believe that democracy is the answer for political demand in South Africa is universal adult suffrage-- everybody gets the vote,\ says Knight. Organizers will send completed ballots to the U.S. Congress and to South Africa to urge continued sanctions and further reform. Not all students agree that divesLmcnt and sanctions are the right policies feJ bringing freedom to the blacks of South The Union College Computer Center has openings for positions as Computer Operators Opportunity for a,dvancement. Hours are flexible on a term bas1s Work study program preferred, however not required Apply at the Computer Center Days 8:30-5:00 I I, ( ,..... .. c SJ and to 1 getti tl1esc also pro spri pr()t us i5 L~ bike Uni add frus cau: IDOl T viet bik( pre Sec adv desr ef: plac if : iofc can ret1 arc dq anc not sirr [ 2. 2. 1 ~· ~· z

!j •i I I II: f : 1 ' . ~~ .. ~ l~ •...;. ~ \\ • ... '... ., 1' .. ~ •. , - .... ctiiicdRhliifvsrs; Miir'cli 8, · i99o · Together For A Safe Campus Courtesy of: Campus Security · Spripg is fast approaching~ and we are all l<loking.·forward to the warm weather and getting outdoors. However, these na;rbingers of springtime also bring to mind some problems associated with · springthme. One of these problems that affects some of us is bic-ycle theft. positive identification. The· Securtiy and Safe_t:.y Department will a1so ·be glad to register your bike., at no cost. and keep the infonnation on file for you. If your bike does not have a serial number, the Security and Safety Department will assist you in engraving an identification number on thtr bike. Many times bikes are stolen in spite of chains and locks. You should make sure that you have an adequate chain. and lock and that you properly lock the bike. There have been instances where improperly locked hikes were easily stolen by removing one of the wheels. The Security and Safety Department Last year; there were 15 b~kes reported stolen on the Union College campus. In additi()n to t-he anger and frustration that these crimes caused., tbere was a reported mone~ loss of .$5,1·85. , has brochures available on bicycle theft prevention and you can pick one up by stopping at the office. This springtime potential for victimiz:ation can be avoided if bike o'Vrllers follow some crime prevention protocols. The Security. and Safety Department · advises that ·you iog the descri:]>tion and· serial number · of your bike and keep it in a place where you will locate it · if yo-ur bike is stolen. This information is important and can help in getting yout bike returned to you. Many bik:es are rec<>vered by local police departlllents and the Security and S~fety 'Department but are .. not retllnled to lawful owners simply because there is no Anyone who wishes further information should contact Bob Tomeck, Crime Prevention Officer (X-6911) between 4 p.m.-midnight, Tuesdays through Saturdays. With heightened awareness and by following some practical precautions you may not become a victim this springtime. Working together for a safe campus can produce positive results. Reported Security Incidents . ,DA'I'E LOCA'l'IQN 2-25 Delta Ph.i 2-25 Fox South 2-25 Of:f campus 2-25 Davidson 2-25 Nest Dining 2-25 Fo:x South 2-25 West College 2-26 Arts 2-26 West College 2-26 South College 2-26 North College 2-27 Ilavidson 2-2 7 Achilles Rink 2- 2'7' Fieldhouse 2-2 8 Fox/1Jav1Json Lot 2 -: ~- Rayr.1cncl llous e 2-28 College Center 2 -: ~· lio t t 1:ernor ia 1' 2-: F F o ' / Jl a\. i J s.o n Lot :) • 1 College Center 3- 1 Ric !c:nond/llc s t 3-1 lla v i J ~,.on . 3- z Ads 3-2 Fox Lounge 3-Z SGr. 3-2 Fox House 3-~ r:c s t Coller,e 3-3 Coll.ege Center 3-3 Da:v-idson 3•3 . \~est College lNCIPJ;:NT Stude.nt reports assault by anothe-r student. Vandalism to >vindow by student Studertt arrested for vandalism Vandalism to north entrance. Staff harassment bv student - theft of services.' Student vandalizing detector - Life Safetv Violation. Burning material in. room - Life Safety Violation. Vandalism to door. Student repEnts undesirable seen in area on Z-?3. Student reports possible theft of room property. Phona harassment reported. RA keys reported missing - student prank. . Unauthorized solicitat-ion by student .. Personal property stolen from locker room. Student reports \·e~iclt> d:~na;t> from to1~ Housekeeping pror1E\n. Report of harassm~nt ±y staff n~::mber Theft of non.ev rc~ortt>d. Student nr·OT.t5 c~~:lP€' tr v~hicle from to1.; Unauthorized erttTv bv student. Suspi~ious rerson. re~orted o~ IV3 1 kwav'. GOA. Stud~n~ reports recC'ivin~ phone scam call. Vandalism to classro~n ~indow. Vandalism to potted tree. Undesirable rt>ported. Fled area. Unable to lotate. Fa 1 se fire a 1 arm. \'aradalisn to Lif~ Sah-ty Equipmeil t. Vandalism to bollards. Undesirable reTJOrted. Loo!;ing for student. Advised off • Grease fire. SFD notified. Anonymous. Letter Names Student As Sex Criminal Continued fr()m page 1 make public the fact that the Administration did nothing in the way of disciplinary action. While Marnmola states that the Dean of Students' Office \not infrequently receives letters, about a half dozen of these a year,\ they !He usually, however. fre>m off-campus sources. This one is quite serious fot another reason. This letter, according to Mammola \implicates the Administra- tion\ as guilty in knowingly · allowing this alledged criminal to go unpunished. There is little, however, the Administratio.n can do with anonymous allegations. \The Administratioll's hands are tied,\ Mammola stated. In a letter to the editor in · this issue ef Concordiensis (see page 12), Dean Mammola requests the a1tonymous body come forth and offer \more specific infoimation and proof'' to help his office and the Administration to talce proper action. Anonymity is understandable on tbis campus. The alleged victims do not want to have to \suffer the humiliation and alienation from (their) peers,\ as the letter stated, in exchange for coming forward. However, it is not, according to Mammola, right to \deprive a IJerson of the opportunity for an education without due process.\ The Administration cannot simply ask this<\student to leave the College witll such little and vague information on which to go. The letter was brought to the attention of Joanne Tobiessen, Chair of the Peer Relations Committee. Mammola does not wish to jeopardize the future of the accused, if he is not guilty, nor does he want life to be made uncomfortable for the alledged victims. But the only way the truth can be learned and action taken is if that anonymous body comes forth in confidentiality. William Sloane Coffin To Speak In April Q a: :f z iii •a: ·~ ~ in w ti: 8 (.) 0 b :I: a.. By PROFESSOR BRUCE REYNOLDS capsules from the past, our reporter turned to those among Union's faculty whose \William Sloane who???\ memories stretch way, way This was the typical response back ... all the way back to the 'tO our roving reporter, as he· Vietnam War. moved about the campus \What sticks out in my cornering stu.dents and asking, mind,\ comments Prof. Byron \What do you think about Rev. Nichols, \is the leading role William Sloane Coffin Jr., that Coffin and the clergy who's coming to Union in played in both the Vietnam April?\ The puzzled looks or anti-war movement and the blank stares make it clear that civil rights movement. They the man whom Time mag a- were out front.\ Indeed, Coffin zine last year called probably attained his greatest \America's last peacenik:\ is an national prominence as one ot unknown quantity to those five indicted felons_.- charged aged25 and under. along with Dr. Benjamin And in fact, Coffin has been Spock and others, of in eclipse for nearly a decade, \conspiring to incite draft along with the whole peace and evasion.\ That period-- the social justice movement which early 1970s, especially-- saw he has led ever since his days at hundreds of war resisters Yale in the 1960s. The Reagan burning their draft cards and Eighties were the Age of the going to jail (or to exile in Yuppie, not the Age of Canada). Aquarius; folks who wanted to Prof. Thomas Jewell was in right wrongs and defend the the army at the time. \Coffin poor and disenfranchised seemed . was a person who lived by his as out of place as Don Quixote convictions-- who did what he on the Cross-Bronx thought was best for the Expressway. country,\ says Jewell. \Some So, who, indeed, is William of his views weren't all that far Sloane Coffin Jr.? For the from mine-- I wasn't all gong- record, after more than ten ho on the war; but I had a years. as senior minister at commitment (as a graduate of Riverside Church in New York West Point) to serve the City, he recently took on the country.\ presidency of SANE/FREEZE, Prof. Bruce Reynolds a national disarmament group remembers Coffin as a headquartered in Washington, wordsmith-- playing on the DC. Hoping to open up time Continued on page 4 RESULTS CONGR.i\'l'ULATlONS

CONCORDIEN'SIS, Marclt 8, 1990 Page 3 Together For A Safe Campus Courtesy of Campus Securi:t:y Spring is fast ap:preaching and we are all looking forward to the V!arrn weather and getting ()Utdoors. However, tbesc harbingers of sp~>ingtime also bring to mind s01ne problems associ~ted with springtime. One ef these pr()blem~ that affects some <>f us is bicycle theft. Last year, tllere were 15 bikes reported stolen on the Union College Clllllpus. In addition to the 11nger and frustration that these crimes caused, tlleFe was a reported monetary loss of $5,l85. This springtime Jl(Jtential for victimization can be. a. voided if bike owners follow some crime prevention protoc<>ls. The Security and Safety Department advises that yo11 log the description and ser:ial number of your bike and keep it in a place where you 'Will locate it if your bike is stolen. Tllis information is important and can help in gettin~ your bike feturnetl to you. Many bik-es arc recCl-vered by local police departments and the Security and Safety Department but <:UC not retllmed to lawful owners simply because Ihere is no positive identification. The· Securtiy and Safety Department will also · be glad to register your bike, at no cost. and keep the information on file for you. If your bike does not have a serial number, the Security and Safety Department will assist you in engraving an identification number on the bike. Many times bikes are stolen in spite of chains and locks. You should make sure that you have an adequate chain and lock and that you properly lock the bike. There have been instances where improperly locked bikes were easily stolen by removing one of the wheels. The Security and Safety Department has brochures avaHable on bicycle theft prevention and you can pick one up by stopping at the office. Anyone who wishes further information should contact Bob Tomeck, Crime Prevention Officer (X-6911) between 4 p.m.-midnight, Tuesdays through Saturdays. With heightened awareness and by following some practical precautions you may not become a victim this springtime. Working together for a s.afe campus can produce positive results. Reported Security Incidents DATE LOCAT:lDN 2-2 5 Delta Phi 2-~5 Fox Sou\\h 2-25 Off campus ~ - 2 5 Da vi ds on ~-zs ll'est Dining 2-25 Fox South 2-25 West College 2-26 Arts 2-26 West College Z-26 South Col l~ge Z-2& 1\orth College Z-27 Davidson ~-27 Achilles Rink 2-27 Fieldho~se INCIDENT Student reports assault by another student. Vandalism to window bv student Student arrested for ~andalisr Vandalism to north entrance. Staff harassment bv student - theft of services.· Student vandalizing detector - Life Safetv Violatlon. Burning material in room - Life Safety Violation. Vandalism to door. Student reports undesirable seen in area on 2-23. Student re~orts possible theft of room pro~erty. Phone harass~ent reported. RA keys reported missing - student Jl'Tank. Unauthorized solicitation h· student. · Personal property stolen from locker room. ~-:s lox.diJ'.:t~'Son Lot :'tuJt>nt rc;,orto- \c':;ic!e ,•,,-~.1,:<' fron t 01~ 3. 1 3 ·I 3\ 1 3-2 3\ 2 3\ 2 3· 3 3-3 3-3 Ra,·:'lcnd liotlse rcjllege (enter t:ot t 1 ~ei!1CTi al Frx 1 PaYLdson Lot (allege Center R 1c 1 ·:nunJ; 1'c st Arts Fox Lounge s r,r Fox liou5e Lest C:o1ler,e Co liege Center Davidson Illest College l~use~ce~ing pro~lc~. Re~ort of harass~cnt ~v staff n•:ml:ter . Theft of nonev rc~0rt~J. Student reports ca::J:li'L' t c v~hicle from tow ''n:wthori:L'c 1 ent~,. l''\ <tt:Je~t. StJsri(iou~ t'crsorl rcportct! o~ t.:alkt;a\. GO.·'\. ~tuJent z..:n<'rts recei1i:1: rhone SCilm. call. . Vandalisrn to classroon hindc~. Vandalisn to potteJ tree. Undesirable reported. Fled area. Unahle to locate. False fire alarm. \\a'1dalisn to Life Safetv Equipment. · Vandalisn to bollards. Undesirable rt>norted. Loo!;ing for stud~nt. Advised off. Grease fire. SFD notified. Anonym,ous Letter Names Student As Sex Criminal Continued from pa~e l make public 1he fact that the Adm1nistration did n.othing in the way of disciplinary action. While Mammola states that the Dean C>f Students' Office \not infrequently receives letters. about a half d(]zen of these a year,\ they are usually, however, from off-campus sources. This one is ·'l uite serious for another reasun, This letter, according to Mamrnola \implicates the Administra- tion\ as guilty in knowingly allowing this alledged criminal to go unpunished. rhere is little, however, the Administration can de> with anonymous allegatio11s. \The Administration's hantls are tied,.\ Mammola state<!. ln a letter to the editor in this issue of Concord iensis (see page l2), Dean Mammola requests the anonym()us body come forth and offer \more specific information a11d proof' to hdp llis office and the Administration to take proper action. Anonymity is understandable on this campus. The alleged victims do not want to have to \sl!ffer the humiliation and alienation from (their) peers,\ as the letter stated, in exchange for coming forward. However, it is not, according to Mamml)la, right to ''d~privc a person of the opportunity for an education without due proccs s.\ The Adminisuation cannot simply ask this student to le<t ve the College with such little and vague information Oil wbich to go. The letter was brough.tto the attention of Joanne 1'obiessen, Chair of the Peer Relations Com mi ttce. Mammola does not wish to jeopardize the future ()f the accused, if he is not guilty, nor does lle want life to be made uncomfortable for the alledged victims. But the only '-Vay the truth can be learned a11d action taken is if that an<Jnymous body comes forth in confidcntiali ty. ..... en w ti: B () 0 b :r: a. Wil.liam Sloane Coffin To Speak In April By PROFESSOR BRUCE REYNOLDS \William Sloane who???\ This was the typical response to our roving reporter, as lle moved about the campus cornering students and asking, \What do you think about Rev.. William Sloane Coffin Jr., who's coming to Union in April?\ The puzzled looks or blank stares make it clear that the man whom Time maga- zine last year called \America's last peacenik\ is an unknown quantity to those aged 25 and under. And in fact, Coffin has been in eclipse for nearly a decade, along with the whole peace and social justice movement which he has led ever since his days at Yale in the 1960s. The Reagan Eighties were the Age of th~ Yuppie, not the Age of Aquarius; folks who wanted to right wrongs and defend the poor and disenfmnchised seemed as out of place as Don Quixot~ on the Cross-Bronx Expressway. So, who, mdecd, is William Sloane Coffin Jr.? For the record, after more than ten years as senior minister at Riverside Church in New York City, he recently took on the presidency of SANE/FREEZE, a national disarmament group headquarLered in Washington, DC. Hoping to open up time capsules from the past, our reporter turned to those among Union's faculty whose memories stretch way, way back ... all the way back to the Vietnam War. \What sticks out in my mind,\ comments Prof. Byron Nichols, \'is the leading role that Coffin and the clergy played in both the Vietnam anti-war movement and the civil rights movement. They were out fC'ont.\ Indeed, Coffin probably attained his greatesr national pr::'ominence as one of five indicted felons-- charged along wLth Dr. Benjamin Spack and others, of \conspiring to incite draft evasion.\ That period-- the early 1970s, especially-- saw hundreds of war resisters burning their draft cards and going to jail (or to exile in Canada). Prof. Th.wrnas Jewell was in the army <:.lt the time. ''Coffin was a pen on who lived hv his conviction:<;-- who did wh;lt he thought ~-J.as hest for the country,\ ::says Jewell. \Some of his vic1,,.~ weren't all that far from mine-- I wa'>n't all e:un~­ ho on the: war; but I had ~a commitme:nt (as a graduate of West Poiint) to serve the country.'' Prof. B rucc Reynolds remembeiTs Coffin as a wordsmith-- playing on the Con ti11ued on page 4 ImSULTS CONGHATULATIONS ·· o··.· .. a,le: ···N· ·T .. ··A· ·T··ION -.· .. - ... n::·: : .. : .. · ... ·· ADVlSO,RS ·tor ·od,e;f.itation Advlsor

L,ast Of American Peaceniks Business Ethics . . . . Seminar Sctleduled To Speak At Union Continued from page 3 , 50% from the military budget,. and reinvest most o'f the English language and savings in human needs.\ The especially; Biblical allusions) ' real global issues today, says like Galway on the flute. \At a Coffin., are not issues. of war par.ticularly low }Joint in the and peace, but. of ecology. \The anu~war movemen~~\ Reynolds . _planet is at risk in an order of recalls, \Bill Coffin came : magnitude never previously through Ann Arbor, where ·. imagined,\ he observed. \If we SDS and so many <lther student : don't think of the future, we groups had been born. And he ', won't have one.\ saw the despondency, and said After talking witil Coffin just. the· ri.ght thing, '~hen your reporter sought out tW~ c?e~1shed .1de~ls and vtsions more faculty time capsules, ?te, h.e sa1d,. yo11 have to do , from opposite ends of the JUSt what you do for people . politial spectrum, asking each, whom you lo\Ved: you mourn ! \What is your memory of them, and then yoLI take them William Coffin?\ Said Prof. out to the graveyard and bury Martha Huggins: \I remember them-- andyou wal~away.\' Coffin as a pillar of strength-- In a \:tde-ra.npng phone , willing to speak out when conversation th.ts week from others wouldn't. He was, and h~s Washington o£fice, Coffin is, an establishment g11y who's dtsplayed some of those \word- willing ~o challenge the smith\ skills. \My most establishment from which he urgent message today,\ ht.. benefits. Think how rare that explained, \is that we need to is!\ Indeed, Coffin, a member tum away from confrontation · of an old, monied, New with Russia, and begin to England family, boasts a solve some of our problems silver-spoon upbringing: here at home. We need to cut · Andover, Yale, piano study in eESUMES ~ -DMMUNII4JLIE5 - A .. ~~~'!' (51'8) 869·3671 6 Ravenwood Drive • Albany. New York • 12205 • Professional Resume Writing & Design • Business Communications • Newsletter:S Ann Marie Ducharme Lynn M. McGuire Call for tlu Submission of Nomination> JHE 1990-91 -- --~~~~~----- RAOUL WALLENBERG SCHOLARSHfPS A Graduate Stu<h' Program at The Hebrew University of Jerusalem for the Fostering of Future Leadership in Democracies Th€ WaH~nber~ ~..:h1.1ian. ~ •• ,. . .,• J~' ··.~·'\~ ~·i ~.j.~ J\-·'!'l'!\'.}'t\...:'\'·\r\·_..:'f!'l·\' 1 J..!t>\'l Jbo .'~Ml•\-''OJJI \' n \l:''e ... ~\~'.t.J.Jc:: :\.,. ~ ....... ~ .... :-: •• l~dt •• '\!> _: .. t ... JC-~~ ..... t.· .... dr -.J~~ 3~~...;er. .• , :-..i.r:e)l5 \:\; .• : .~.: er!\ln .t:-,...; :~ .;· .... .._~ afttl1tltton~ ,l.re ~tt'('n~tv enLoura'!ed Background and Deals ~f the Program \Th~ Raoul \'(.'allenberg Schoiarsh!p Progr<~m was tmtuteci 1n 1986. The Program was concetved m ~he· !>Pll'U of Ra0ul Wallenoe~. \ Chrmtan Swechsh J1plom.:n o.-llo. at great persor'!al penl. Jevoted 'hamself r:o ~-he resc1.1-e or:· Jews tn the tace of ~a21 b::trbansm. Bv tdenc-ltvtetg and devdopmg porent1al furore leo.der.s,·rile '1.'allen.be115 Schoiarsh1p Program seeks to perp.:ru.:ue a11d promulgate his ex.arnple of humane and .:ourn19e01.1S leade:TShtp 1n petperuann~ democratic tdeals. The Wallen:berg Scholarsh:tp Rrograrn prov1des an oppoitu'llLN ior a ~elect group ot voung· rnen and women who ha..,·c recentlv earned an urldetgtaduate degree 1a rhe '-' _S ro studv the ?henomenon orleadershtp 1n a spectal!\.\\ designed Ytsmng Srudem l tA:.A. Ieveli prog:nnn <it:·tlu Hebrew L 1 mverntv (.)t ]etlls.alem. The program 1s ~orHfl.l,v;:ed undet che ausp1ces oft he Provost of· the Rorh.·~rg School for Uverseas Si':udents and the 0~1\ <£the Faculrv of Soc:!al\ ScienceS. StrUcture of che Pt'agram Th~ purpose t,t rhe '&'nllenb~~·Scholars Program tsto srudv rhe phenom,;non ot leadershtp and.M .:onrnl> \lte·ro the 1d~nnil,anon anJJevelopment ot rh~se ,1blv •tO·emerge as lf!\ll.ders m rhe tuture. A ma-Jor uti>der· lnng, goal of rhe Program 1s ro develop rhe Schcilar·~ ~ 1 ull and apmude f-or underrek1ng and· &mple3l\er~tung aT\di\•Jdual and gnJllP'Irllt\a\CI'ICS The Wallenberg Program bq1fl:! wuh an ancensave H-ebrew' language: surnmo::r course and 1S followed.dut:mg rhe .lo..ademac. vear with .1 wtekh· semmttr de!.tgnechpecthtali'Y for ·rhe \'(,,\aJ!enb~ Scholars. The c~.Jrr1cuillm wtll ~ondud~ :.a{e v1san and t1'1tct1ngs wHh Israel's leadC!rs. The s~ho!arS-a-re encour:~ged to·p·aruc!p~te·m 111Lh· \1dual mrem~h1ps and are nqu1red ro engage m a s!gn1f1cant group proJect. Each Scholar wi!l also purstJ~: hts- OT her own acadcintc mttrem. The Wallenberg,Scho-lars mav also chot»se·trorn a wrc:le range o1 re·li':v-:~n~ 'ourses.llffered tn·EngiLSh.auhe Rs;lthberg .:ichool fo'I'Uverseas Srudl::nts. regular Cour$c5 adhe uet&vers,w. or u('lde-rtoke an mdet>endent ~tUdv. The program requ11'e!'i 11 rnllnths ~o complcre. !'>lom1naung Pro~edttre NC?rnlneo.musr hav~ comPiered ·rhetr un~c~duate degrees·bv June 1990. Nommat~ons of po[enu;~.l >cholars must b< •ubrnttte<ibv Aprtl 10, 1990. and ,.,II lie acc<:pted onlv from ti->e p..,tdent, Vice Pl\t:!t<ient o~m. or a Drpanmoent: Churprrson ::It [hi;! apphcanr's t:,.lnlVe\tslrv. . Paris witi1Nadia Boulanger. Prof. Frank Gado had both praise and criticism for Coffin's role in the sixties and seventies. ''He was chaplain at Yale during the time of Tile Troubles,\ Gado recalled, ''His notion of religion was a:n active one-- for that I applaad him. But I blame him for this: at that time in our history, we were badly in need of people to affirm principles which go beyond the moment; instead, he lent his prestige as a member of the Yale faculty to this notion of situational ethics.\ So who, indeed, is William Sloane Coffin-- a one-tinte preppy; the man whom tile Williams fraternities ran out of town after only one year in tile chaplaincy there; for four years a Russia specialist for tile C.I.A.; then, 20 years later, the target of one of the F.BJ's most expensive investigations. On Sunday evening, April 9, we will find out for ourselves. Write For News Call Elise x4434 Jay x4153 Union will offer a seminar on creative ways to implement successful ethics strategies and models in business organizations, from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. on Tuesday, April • · 24. ~ Among the issues to be covered will be white.:c:ollar crime, fairness in evaluations, · plants closings or downsizings, , product liability, and procurement ethics. The seminar will be given by Dr. Peter Madsen, executive director of Carnegie Mellon University's Center for the Advancement of Applied · •' , Ethics. He has given semi11ars in more than 26 cities and ill Switzerland and wor:ked with numerous corporations, p11blic organizations, and professiooal and trade associatons. The fee, which includ~s lunch and coffee breaks, is $136 through March 26, amd $150 thereafter. A free brochure and registration may be obtained fly contacting the College's Office .of Graduate and Continuing Studies, Wells House (x6388). Visa and Mastercard will ()e accepted. AnMBAde~e that ~ves yoq a degree of expenence. TheN <:>rtheastem Co-op MBA program enables you to earn your degr€e in just 21 months and still earn money for your education-paid profes.•.;ional wMk experiencp i.-; an integral part of the cuni.culum. Northeastern University, one of the country's leaders in cooperative education, has offered tills outstanding educa- tional option to MBA candidates for over 20 years. The Co-op MBA program begins in June and January. Applkationdeadlinesare Aprill5and November 1, respec- tively. For details, return the coupon below. ~·---~--------·--------~-~ 1 Yes, I'd like to fincl out more about a Northeastern Co-op MBA degree. Send to: 1 I Graduate S~hodl·of Business Administration, 205 Hayden Hall, Northeastern I University, 3&0Huntirtgton Ave., Boston, MA 02115. I ~ I I Address I I I I City State Zip I I Northeastel'!l Unil'ersity is an equal opportunitytaffinnattve action. employer. The College of Business I I Admmistration is!iccredited by the A!Rerican Assembly· of Collegiate Schools of Business. I 1 Q} Northeastern University ~ I ' ., By I mu knew e know al having two ye; I have very fu U. Befc heinom tell yc ·story is roomm a ge11et of the 1 what J should into th wtiting some wo:rki stumbl unsavo my ow I go1 my res year. 1 say, I\ protecl one d talkin. worki1 love h pretty mu&t A

. ; CONCORDiENSIS, MarCit 8; i99(J , Last Of American Peaceniks Business Ethics Seminar Scheduled To Speak At Union Contimaed from page 3 English languge and especial'1y, Biblical allusions) like GalV~ay on the flute. \At a particularly low point in the anti-war movement,\ Reynolds recalls, \Bill Coffin came through Ann Arbor, where SDS ancl so many other student groups had been born. And he saw the despondency, and said just the right thing. 'When cherished ideals and visions die,' he said, 'yota have to do just wh:at you do for people whom rou loved: you mourn them, and then you take them out to the graveyard and bury them-- and you walk away.\' In a wide-ranging phone convcrs:ation this week from his Wa~hington office, Coffin displayed some of those \word- smith\ skills. \1\Iy most urgent rncssagc today,\ hl explained, \is that \\C need to turn U\\.<1)' from confrontation \vith R u~sia. and he gin to soln.· soml' or our problems hcrt' at :home. \\\ l' llL'CJ to cut 50% fr:om the military budget. and reinvest most of the savings in hllman needs.\ The real global issues today, says Coffin, aile not issues of war and peace, but <Jf ecology_ \The planet is at risk in aH order of magnitude never previously imagined,\ he observed. \If we don't think of the future. we won't have one.\ After talking wit:h Coffin, your reporter sought out two more faculty ~ime capsules, from opposite ends of tht' politial spectr11m, asking each, \What is your memory of William Coffin?\ Said Prof. Martha Huggins: \I remember Coffin as a pillar of strength-- willing to SI>eak out when others wouldn't. He was, and is, an establishment guy who's willing to challenge the establishment from which he benefits. Think how rare that is!\ Indeed, Coffin, a member of an old, monied, New England family. boasts a :-ilvcr-spoon upbringing: Andover. Yale, piano study in lltlli 11111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111111 EAR1H DAY • EVERY DAY NA:lO~~AL WlLDL:FE FEDERATiON 1400 ~6th Street N\V, vVashington, DC 20036· 2266 I!!IE5UME5 r\: CMMLINII41UES ..... ~ \'~\ (518) 869-3671 6 Ravpn~coc Drve Aloan 1 Ne11 York e 12205 • P rofess1ona1 Resume Wnt1 ng & Des1gn • Bus mess Commun1cat1on s • Newsletters Anrn Marie Ducharme Lynn M. McGuire Call for the Submissiun of :-.:l)minannn~ THE 1990-91 -- ~~------------- RAOUL WALLENBERG SCHOLARSHIPS .-\ l;raJuate Stud\ Prugram .11 !h~ Hehrew L\niversirv L)f J eru~alt:ll) 1M the f,,..,teri ng nf Future Leadership in De moe racies I \ :-J . '' l' \ . . ~- .. -, \..:··- -: ... -.~ ::'!:'\' \'t\· r : \.hl :- :' 1 '>t\·t\. ,J .. :~tir;eu \ .s.r:nli! -.-~u~n: '~1lo. t\'-t\·' :;r•>o;:,....liT 1' ··-: \o, I ; ' ,_.- • _:P• • ~ • ,'- • e' ' • '• ' ~tru~tu -re ct 1h~ Prugra.m 7h t=\'Jr\\t\'~(\ •r •ht> .\'alle-nt'len,: Slhular!> Pro~m .., ru (,tu.:iv rhe phenornu~on 01 lea.iersh1p anJ rv .. ontrtl'l· ,r•: :,• ·n~ Jcr\Lit anJ j~vt'lopment .•1 tho<>t• >~t.elv tO eme~e a$ ieade-n 10 rhett.JtJre -\ ma1 .. ,r unJe• '• lng ~tl='lo .,, !\'.e.\ r'\t~gr\dm '\ [Q dev~Jop the :5cholar s o;kall anJ apmude tor undertaklrtg and tmplcmcnnng .l'l.dn. •d.1.J1 .an.J ~rour lnltJattVl'S '!'lw 'J:.1-J:mherg PnJi;iram 0~11\~ w1th an 1nt~ns•ve Hebreu.r :Jn~uaste summer ,curse a nJ IS tnllllwffi Jur1ng •hr J~.l~trn•\. of\ar ~.~otrh J \'~~~~ ~emmar Je'lol!lne-J '>PC't.Jtv .. a,lv tor rhe \X.ahe'nbe-1'\! Sml.),ar'!> The ~u.rn. \JL<Jrn \\,,( .n.t~:.Jo.k ~.re '·~at> an..:l >neer1ngs '\''h hrae-i'<o lt\aders The _,l hl11an att ~n~ouragcd ro ~JrtJ(tpatt.'\ m 1l\1U1 ..,,Jual n!em~hiPS J.nd art requm•..J 10 enQa~ote •n a ~•gmtlf.ant grouo pron•ct. Ead'. :=irtDlilr wtli abo pursw.r: \ts \~r he:r own a~aJemll lf'ltt!resrs 7he W.1i1e-nbet\R ::ilho!ars mav .uso choo'51.' rrom A w1de ranRe or rrie-\anr • <ltlf~ ,._,rferN m En~l1sh Jt the R.o1hbe~ :Ot.hool tor L)vt'rsca& Stu..J~nr~ r~lar L!Jur-SC!t at the unt\.CTsarv. or JPde-rraQ..r an :n...1<*'~ndenr c;rudv Th~ rmgram requtre-s I; month~ ro o..Omf\,ete ~umr111.atmg PrO<:edur~ \-.;o•runees mus.t have u.JfllPi~ted rhm unJe-rgradua1e degrees bv june: !QQ(l ~om1narton'i of potentl.al S<..ho1Jr\5 must ~ .. ubm•ntd bv April IJ. :qQQ, and Will be J(.Cepted .:Jnh trorn the rre.s,denr. V1Ct Pre-:.ld~nt. nl\nn. :~r a 0t1='arrmc-nt Chomperwn at the app!JCanc::. L'ru\.le'fSirv Paris with Nadia Bo11langer. Prof. Frank Gado had both praise and criticism for Coffin's role in the six ties and seventies. \He was chaplain at Yale during the time of The Troubles,\ Gado recailed. \His notion of religioll was an active one-- for that I applaud him. Bllt I blame him for this: at that time in our ltistory, we were badly in need of people to : affirm principles which go beyond the moment; instead, he lent his prestige as a member of the Yale faculty to this notion of situational ethics.\ So who, indeed. is William Sloane Coffin-- a one-time preppy; the man whom the Williams fraternities ran out of town after only one year in the chaplaincy there; for four years a Russia specialist for the C.I.A.; then, 20 years later, the target of one of the F.B.I's most expensive inv~stigations. On Sunday evening, April 9. we will find out for ourselves. : . . ' • ' ' : . ' '~ '' ·,. .~ .. ~. l ' • • ' .Write For NeMrs Cal! Elise x4434 Jay x4153 . : : ~\' . . ' . . . .~ . . ~ ~ Union will offer a seminar · on creative ways to implement successful ethics strategies and • models in business ' organizations. from 8:30a.m. · to 4:30p.m. on Tuesday, April : 24. . Among the issues to be · · covered wHI be white-collar crime, fairness in evaluations, : plants closings <Jr downsizings, product liability, and: • procurement ethics. The seminar will be given by Dr. Peter Madsen, executive director of Carnegie Mellon University's Center for the . Advancement of Applied , Ethics. He has given seminars in more than 26 cities and in Switzerland and worked with numerous corporations. public organiz:ations, and professional and trade associatons. The fee, which includes hnch and coffee breaks, is $13 5 through March 26, and $150 thereafter. A free brochure and registration may be obtained by coHtacting the College's Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies. We1 1 ls House (x6388). Visa and Mastercard w1ll be accepted - - - - ~TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS- - - - - - DID YOU KNOW: Your Calling Card carrier charges you up to an additional $1.50 over the cost of the toll call eaoeh time you make a Calling Card call? An MBA degr:ee that ~ves yoq a degree of expenence . ThP !\orthPa.\-;t Pm ( 'o-op ~·1BA program enab IPs you to Pan1 your degre(' in just 21 month-; and still earn Hloney for your ('ducat ion- paid profpssi on a! work expeti('l WP i\ an integral part of the curriculum. ~ortlwa.~t Pm l: niv•·r-sit y. otw ',f t hP c·1 llllltr-y \, IP<Uh'rs in cr H 'l~·r.-tt iw Pdll('a! ion. ha.-, ()ffnPd this olltst;tnfling <'dt!f'<t ti«Hlal option to :\1BA candidatP:-. for owr 20 yt><:u:-.. Tiw Co-<;p ;\lBA prugrant b\'gil\s i:n.JunL·and .January. Application deadlines are A~.»rillS and November 1, respt>c- tively. For details, return the coupon below. r------------------------, Yes, I'd like to find out more about a Northeastern Co-op MBA degree. Send to: Graduate School of Business Admini.sLration, 205 Hayde11 Hall, Northeastern University, 360 Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 02115, Address City State Zip NortheastPrn Umwrs1ty !San f'qual oppm:tunity'affirmatlv~ action emph>y~ r Th~ Collf'gP of Busmf's; Admmtstration is accrE>dlted by the Amrriran A~\\mbly of Collegrate Sch<>ois nfBu,iness. Northeastern University By I m knew, know: havin~ two y( I haV( very f U. BeJ heinot tell y story i room11 a gem of the what shoul{ into tl writin some work stuml unsav mym I g< myre year. say, l protC( one talki1 work love · prett~ must

1 ·, i it '' !: Page 5· ·' ···~ FEATURES Tales From Th.e Dark Side By DOUG FISCHER I must admit, I thought I knew everything there was to know about my room.mate .after having lived with the guy for two years now. Not only that, I have known him since our very frrst days here at t:lle big U. Before I disclose to you my heinous discovery, let me first tell you that the following · story is true but it is not about roommates at alL Rather, it is a getteral warning to members of the Union community as to what lies in wait for you should you decide to venture into the Nautilus room. I am writing in the hopes of saving scHtte poor, trusting, hard- worl.dng student from stumbling upon a fate as unsavpry and as distressing as my own. I got to be pretty tight with my resident advispr sophomore year. I'll change his name to say, Nis Kumar, in order tet protect the innocent. Afi¥way, one day Nis and I got io talking about bodies and working out and things like love handles and how I had a pretty fine pair myself. Nis must have feh pretty New c_omfortable talking with me that day, because he went so far as to inform me that I just so happened to be pear shaped. I:Irnmm. I pondered the thought resembling an awkwardly shaped pieee offruit for the rest of my life. Then, after about two seconds of deliberating~ I decided it was time to start working out. At this point my story . takes us to ~he lower level of Alumni gym, where. during a good week, I can be found on Monday, Wednesday; alld Friday afternoons for approximately one hour~ . Although the Nautilus room may appear to be a nice eno1,1gh looking facility to the casual observer, it will reveal itself to be a merciless and unforgiving hell hole to the seasoned veteran. Basically, the point 1 am getting at is this: The machines do not like you and they are not your friends. With the exception of the lower back machine, your only friend in tile entire complex, the machines are bitter, .unforgiving contraptions, and tb.ey will do everything in tlleir power to make your stay in the bowel's of Alumni Gym as miserable and lonely as and Presents: possible. Let us begin with the Super Pullover machine, where I choose to start my infrequent workouts. I greet the machine with a waJ!lll. \Hi how are ya?'; and the machine just gives me a long, cold' stare back as if I just kicked sand into its dying mother's fa<::e. The machines hate you with a passion that cannot be understood by you or I. Haven'~ you noticed how they rmake )'OU grimace in pain and make :you wish yoll were ·anyplace else*? (*Anyplace else with the possible exception of a J oms bistory lecture d1U'i:ng spring term.) And please, whatever you do, don't think for one minute that those machines aren't Laughing at you each and eveJy time you set foot into their room. Luckily I finish my tour on Mr. Super Pullover machine quickly a11d move on before the machine can inflict too much pain on my pear-shaped body. Altho11gh I realize now that my roommate introdllced me to the Nautilus room j11St to spite _ me, it is enjoyable to meet up. with otller ftiend·s who voluntarily allow themselves to be p11nished by the same An evening of Jazz, The Dutch Pipers, an·~ Acoustic Guitar This Thur. March 8, CC.302 Two Shows: 8:00P.M. 10:00 P.M. Refreshments Will Be Served Our multicourse registration discount saves you 20 percent <wn two c~u~s, z; percent on three ot' more. Call I-ROO-FINDS NU Un llli:n{}is, call 708/491·4 H 4) or mail tbis coupon. ) t' l .. ~ ;~ as I do. Evan is one su~jh friend of mine. I recently caugfut up with him in hell, we <iiscussed each of our reltionsh ips with the machines. I w;as very- than:kful to hear tb~t Evan perceives the situatio!l the same was as I do. De~pite the fact tllat Evan is a mt!mb-er ·Of the Crew team, I musL say that I do so consider him to be a fairly rational humam being. Aside from doing way too much Nautilus and way too much running to get in shape for their season, crew people do these rowing exercises nicknamed Ergs. From all the horror stories I have heard about them, I can only conclude that Ergs must really suck. What I am getting at is that Evan knows workouts and Ce>ntinued om page 6 America's .last peacenik . • • ..-......-.....L. SLOANE COFFIN Memorial April 8th - l'tlFthil'ddng;:Sood meg[ frilli~ tl.miit''tlf fiJ:lwcial aid and {e· gisll:a!fro.Jllnf{fl'fintti Pl~~ send the cata1<~g til \' D 4!ly · SillruMr Session '90, 2CID3 Slleridltii ~ ,' .\\-'·\ ~ Chapel 7:30 p.m.

CO.NCORDIENSIS, Mtlrch 8, 1990 Page 5 · FEATURES Tales From The Dark Side By DOUG FISCHER I must admit, I thought I knew everything there was to know about my roommate after having Hved with the guy for two years now. Not only that, I have known him since our very first days here at the big U. Before I disclose to you my heinous discovery, let me first tell you that the following story is true but it is not about roommates at all. Rather, it is a general warning to members of the Union community as to what lies in wait for you should you decide to venture into the Nautilus room. I am writing in the hopes of saving some poor, trusting, hard- working student from stumbling upon a fate as unsavory and as distressing as my own. I got to be pretty tight with my resident advisor sophomore year. I'll change his name to say, Nis Kumar, in order to protect the innocent. Anyway, one day Nis and I got to talking about bodies and working out and things like love handles and how I had a pretty fine pair myself. Nis must have felt pretty New c.ornfortable talking with me that day. because he went so far as to inform me that I just so happened to be pear shaped. Hmmm. I pondered the thought resembling an awkwardly shaped piece of fruit for the rest of my life. Then, after about two seconds of deliberating, I decided it was time to start working out. At this point my story takes us to the lower level of Alumni gym, where, during .a good week, I can be found on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday afternoons for approximately one hour. Although the Nautilus room may appear to be a nice enough looking facility to the casual observer, it will reveal itself to be a merciless and unforgiving hell hole to the seasoned veteran. Basically, the point I am getting at is this: The machines do not like you and they are not your friends. With the exception of the lower back machine, your only friend in the entire complex, the machines are bitter, unforgiving contraptions, and they will do everything in their power to make your stay in the bowel's of Alumni Gym as miserable and lonely as and 1: Presents: possible. Let us begin with tile Super Pullover machine, where I choose to start my infrequent workouts. I greet the machine with a warm \Hi how are ya?\ and the machine just gives me a long, cold stare back as if I j11st kicked sand into its dying mother's face. The machines bate you with a passion that cannot be understood by you or I. Haven't you noticed how ttley make you grimace in pain and make you wish you were anyplace else*? (*Anyplace else with the possible exception of a Jonas bistory lecture during spring term.) And please, whatever you do, d<m't think for one minute that those machines aren't laughing at you each and every time you set foot into their room. Luckily I finish my tour on Mr. Super Pullover machine quickly and move on before the machine can inflict too much pain on my pear-shaped body. Although I realize now that my roommate introduced me to the Nautilus room j11st to spite me, it is enjoyable to meet up with other friends who voluntarily allow themselves to be punished by the same An evening of Jazz, The Dutch Pipers, and Acoustic Guitar This Thur. March 8, CC.302 Two Shows: 8:00 P.M. i 0:00 P.M. Refreshments Will Be Served Our multicourse registration discount saves you 20 pet•cttnt on two cou:rses, 25 percent on three or more. C:tll J.-ROO·FINOS Nli On Hlinnls, call /QS/491-4114} or mail tlt:ls coupon. 11) \_J F'~~ l )\ \.- ~ ·~ \ .. ' .·4 as I do. Evan is one such friend of mine. I recently caught up with him in hell, we discussed each of our reltionships with the machines. I was very thankful to hear that Evan perceives the situation the same was as I do. Despite the fact that Evan is a member of the Crew team, I must say that I do so consider him to be a fairly rational human being. Aside from doing way t<lo much Nautilus and way t<lo much running to get in shape for their season, crew people do these rowing t:xercis es nicknamed Ergs. From all the horror stories I have he1:1rd about them, I can ollly conclude that Ergs must really suck. What I am getting at is that Evan knows workouts and Continued om page () America's last peacenik . • ~.L ............... SLOANE COFFIN Memorial April 8th - Chapel 7:30 p.m. rm thlnldng. ~nd me a free copy of the Summer S~on '9(} ~g with financial aid and rcgistra~on information (available 111 April). \. Please send the catalog to • 0 my home. 0 my schooL ·. \ Summer Ses~tvn '90., .W0.1 Sherid.-m Road h'vanstott,lllinoit> 60208-2(1~0 . ' .

Page 6 CONCORDIENSJS, Marth 8, 1990 FEAT'URES Lifelong Learning Seminars Scheduled at Union College The Union College Academy for Lifelong Learning, a mcmber:o.hip organization for people who wish to continue learning in an intellectually stimulating environment,. ,has scheduled four educational scm inars to begin the week of Aprit 15. The seminars, consisting of five consecutive weekly session of two hours each in College Center Room 203, ate as follows: --Origins of Our Language, a look at the development of English through its European roots, given by John Bradslulw, a retired Rensselaer Polytechrric Institute engineer, from 10 a.m. to noon on Tuesdays, starting April 17. --Writing a Journal as Personal History, presented by Margaret Wadehra, director of the Union College Writing Center, from 1 to 3 p.m. on Tuesdays, starting April 17 _ --Changing: You and They, Dark Side Continued· from page 5 he knows what is harsh ~nd what is mellow when it comes to working out. Therefore, when I saw him bringing in candy and flowers to this <me particularly bitchy machine that had frequently mistreated me in the past, I knew something was up. Evan proceeded to fill me in on how the machines in the Nautilus room hold grudges and take everything way too personally. I thought about trying my luck in the free weights room, but I knew very well that I didn't meet the minimum weight requirement. an exploration of the concepts of change, the historical bac~ground and technologic~d advances that shape our thinking, and how positive change can gel people where they want to be, given by Robert Currie; president of Producti\\~ Business Meetings Inc. who is retired from the General Electric Co. Management Development Institute, Crotonville, from 10 a.m. to noon on Wednesdays, starting April 18. --Chinese Brush Painting/Watercolor, an examination of this ancient Chinese art form and its influence on other cultures, presented by Gu Le-fu, an exchange professor of the arts at Union, from 1 to 3 p.m. on Wednesdays, starting Aprill8. Interested people may enroll in two s0minars per term by signing up for UCALL membership. Ad.ditional seminars may be taken on a • • • Oh well. As I watched my friend struggle with the machine that I will call the shoulder press for lack of a better (or nicer) name, I said to him, \So there sl:lfe is no love lost between you and that machine, huh Evan?'' It was almost as if I was being redundant by stating the all too obvious. He agreed with me, we both laughed, then I went on with my workout and Evan with his. Every few minutes between painful sets we would flash each other telling looks. No words needed to be spoken. We were both seasoned veterans of the room. space-available basis. Seminars are limited to 20 people each, so that College suggests early registration. · Membership is open to anyone regardless of the extent of their formal education. Besides the seminars, members are entitled to a newsletter listing Union College events, access to the College's library, tuition waiver for one credit course offered through the Office of Graduate and Continuing Stuilies: on a space\ available basis, and a closing luncheon. The membership fee is $65 per person or $110 per couple for spring 1990. Visa and Mastercard will 'be accepted. A free llierand membership registration maj' be obtained by contacting UCALL, Office of Graduate an-d Continuing Studies, Wells House, Union College, l Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (370- 6638). TI-IANI( YOU Anthony Albanese Greg Angus Kerry Blinder Tracy Urocks MJ Conley Cynthia Cooney Marc Daniel David Davenport Laurie Davidson Peter DeBoer Erik Oils Sarah Dudzic Peter Elkan Cecelia Eloy Jordan Ely Theresa Gigliotti Amy Goldstein Peter Guzior' Marcia Halfin Eric Handelman Robin·Remis i?aummi Heeder David Romeo Donald Hodson Margaret Rosenberg Michael Ianotti synthia Silverio Bonnie Kapiloff Alex Sklavos Kimberly Keller Nina Smilari Gregg Lavine Edward Stevens Kathleen Lawliss Tamara Tibbetts Peter Lee Stephanie Torto Lin a Leung Elisabeth T:r ipp Nelson Louie Chester urban Matt Malatesta Joel Volterra catherine r:rarshall David Wachtel Karen Nour~zadeh Daniel Waib1e Barry Padgett Marc Weintraub Matthew Pavone Cheryl Yanofsky Zoe Peterson David Zemel Richard Picciocca scott Zollo David Pugliese Campus Paperback Bests~llers 1. Alii Really Need !D K\ow I Learned in KindergarJen, by Robe~ Fulghum ,(Ivy $!;>95)Uncommon.lhou!Jhls on common lhrngs 2. The·Calvin and HoPI>Es lazy. S~ndayEiook, by Bill Wallerson.(Andrew~r& McMeel: $9.95) Collected cartoons 3. The Long Dark Tea- Tl~ of the Soul, by Douglas Adams (Pe<;ket. $4 95)Drrk Gently rs·~·~ed agarnsllhe Laws of'lhe·Unrverse 4. Cat:s Eye. btMargarehAtwcxxt (Bantam: $5 ~5.) A woman·s reflet:trons.trom. sch(J()I dayHorlhe advent orfemrmsm 5. The Prehistory of:thle Far Side, by Gary Larson. (Andrews.& ·McMeel: :$12 95) Larson'snotes and sketches 6. The Drawing of the l'hree,:by Stephen K~ng. (NAL S1gnet, $5.95)'COn1lnues where The ·Gunslmger left oft 7. Trel'ayne, by Robe~ tudlurn (Bantam, $5.95.) The:probrng ol a .,hrdden gDvernmenf ·wllh~n.the government s, 'A Tl>ief.of Time, byTonyHrllerman. (Harper & Row· $4 95·)'Pursurng·a murderer 9. Breathing lessons: by AnneTyler (Berkley. $5.5Q,)An ordrnary marr~ed couple drscovers hoVJ.extraordrnarytheulrves really are tO. Web of Dreams, by·V C 1\ndrews. (Pocket, $550) The brrtll of a famrly.curse ,. , , ~ '' ., • -~ t, '.n ·••• .... .,.,,..,...; ,.,,,. ... -, ..... ,\\'1'\..ill>o•••-! ~iilo\'\\'' •'f!O;.• New & Recommended Shopping for .a BelterVVorld ;lly The ·Counc'l on Economrc Prrorrtres (Baltanllne, ~4.95.YA qurcK and easy gutde·to socrally responsrble supermarket shopptng Daughter of Destiny,!by ~en am Bhutto.,(Touchstone, $9.95.) Fasc1natrng portraitofthehrsi.VIoman pnmerminister of a Muslim slate Save our Planet, by Drane MacEachern, (Oell,.$9.95.) L001 everyday ways YDO:·can help clean up the earth ASSOCIA.TION'Of ANERICAN-PU6Lif!HEIIS'NA.TIONAL ASSOCIATION OF COLLEGE STORES PROCTOR'S •t1 rmo ::.;..,.-...--~ tlltlfstagnollle.fliJilllancl. . f .... PAUL ZALOOM. HOUSE or HORROR ,.... . a · ,,e // I NOll ) TltEATRE DD the Campus of:Union College THURSDAY March B FRIDAY March 9 SATURDAY M~rch 10 _.. T1cke1s available.at Proctor's Box OHice or lnformattonBoo1h, College Center, Union College BOX OFFICE: 346~6204 SHO'tl NIGHTS ONLY: 370·6153 Gone, . 8:02pm Tickets $1250 St11dents $750 But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The Labrador duck. The Carolina parakeet. The list of extinct anim:als grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is worldng to save endangered species. join us while there's still tii:ne. .. · The National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16th Stree~. Nw, Washiligton, DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow~>~ NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION . . .Some oi our greatest people in history were successful because they surround themselves with smart and clever people and in turn, this made them more success1u I . . .. courtesy of The Glen Street Publishing Company - - By Int:crn created i students multicu Union's The Hot half of foreigfl ~ Many have bc1 who stt \Needl night discnss heated have li' House activiti( three t1 Germar are res oftener their Curren ex.chanJ Chinese also li' House. night The \I Stude1

CONCORDIENSIS, M~l1th 8, 1990 Page 7 ~·-~ liriil ~· INTERNATIONAL FEA TURE.S . .. ' . .. living_ In International House By AlME SJMON International House was created in 1987 by a group of students who wanted to bring a Hlultieultural experience to Union's homogenous campus. The House is co-ed, composed half of American and half of foreigB students. Many Union students who have been on Terms abroad or who study foreign languages \Ne~dless to say, late night politital discussions often become heated debates . . u have lived in the Interntional House or have joined 'in its activities. In fact, this year, all three teaching assistants (for German, French, and Spanish) are residing members. They often encourage the speakmg of their mother tongues. Currently, YUTiy, {a Soviet exchange student) and Mao (a Chinese professor of English) also live in the International House. Needless to say, late- night political discussions often become heated debates · which last into the wee hours of the morning. Also, cultural differences are often. explored, such as the meaning of friendship, school experiences, dating rituals, attitudes towards parents, expectations, of and conceptions of women, etc. Of course, problems. do arise because people with dissimilar backgrounds have different viewpoinLs. For example, one discussion about abortion-- whether women should have a choice or whether it should be prohi·bited--upset many. But even so, hard feelings do not last long and there is a slliong unity in In temational House. International House is closely allied with the ISU (the Interntional Student Vnion), so as well as sponsoring i_ts own events, the International House also helps to organize and to participate in ISU. The House was originally situated on the first floor of the Webster dormitory_ However, today it has moved up to the second.floor. The surroundings are very comfortable, and the Working together i1_1 the kitchen, International House members seem to have their hands in everything I fact that every room looks out in to the lounge encourages dialogue and a social atmosphere. The contracts for next year's International Ho:use are currently available. If you 'are interested in living in the International House, call 370- 6834 for all the informa:tion. WRITE FOR INTERNATIONA:L FEATURES I T :hJ.. ~ Rothberg School for Overseas Students 'Li lk. Ttl'\ ~ q, • lr-!~lwirew LirJJlV~rsn:ty rc>f JfeXUJl$~}emm and THE ANNA SOBOL LEVY FOUNDATION announce THE ANNA SoBoL LEvY SCHOLARSHIP For Graduate Study at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem 1990-91 ApplicatiOns are 1nvrted 1or 1he Anna SobOl Levy Foundiltlon ScholarShip for .1991)-91 The scnotarsnm. 1n the amoum of $SOOO,wlll enable an Ametca.n studem to attenllltle Heorew Unrversny of Jerusatern tor Ol'lG·year as a V1S1!1ng Student Vlsit1ng Graduale Student. or V1srtmg Research Student Cand;dales w111 nave earned an undergraouate degree In the helds or lrttemat!Onal Re!atlons. ~cl~ical ScleflCe. Htstory EconomiC Ge-ogtaohv or a related freld, and have career objectrvas of saMce rn the diplomatic carps. government the mtlitary, pub~~e sennce. toumallsm. or related fields. CandtiJates fTI.IS1 be crtrzens oHtle UnJted·States and .no older than 28 years ar tt1e Tome of appliCatiOn. Ttle award ot thiS .;ctiolarshtp rs based upon schOlastiC eKcellence and cl1aracter. w1tho1JI reoard to race. creed, sex, or rOiigious affiliatlo~ The purpose of tne Anna Sobol Levy Scholarship IS to enhanca.and. strengthen the relatlonshrp berween the Un.ted States and lsraot by creatmg betlerLHlderstandlng and commJ.n!CatiQn between fu-ture ~~~~c;l~r$ Qf the 1Wo.counrnes The avard iS des~gned 10 asstsl a stud!nt tn.corfl)letlng gradwUe requtremenls tn htS or her area of soect..aiiZation The Anna·Sobol Levy SchC?Iar w11i partiCipate m a. speCial mdividual tulonal course on lntemat1ona1 relatlCiiiS with a focus on lsraaiJ-Amencan relations. The \Best Overalln Homecoming float was built by the International House and the lntemational Student Union. here. some exhausted students pause for a snapshot. COSTS FOR 19!10-9.1 Tuiion: lfiS<IilgSiudelt Vslt~ Gmduale Student Vslirg Research Studert Tujion: summer Upan • Oo<mlories: (<ilrirg Upani $3100 $2600 $2200 $600 $240 fClr fur1Mr 1Rforma1ton on fees and .:Jiher financial aid opportunities please call or wrrte: America's last peacenik • • SLOANE COFFIN Memorial Chapel Sunday, April 8th - 7:30 p.m. 0 ~----~------------~--~ (<illing acaoeroil: year! approx. $ 9Q I mirth Food ard e;xpenses: $ 250-350 I rmnlh 'intensive Hebrew language·coursa Coonllnator of Graduate Pro~rams Office ot Academic Affairs , tiebrew University of Jerusalem 11 East Sllth Sireel New Yorll. NY 10021 Tel.: (212) 472-2286 Former Mexican Teaching Assistant Primavera Salva.Arride (left) enjoys visiting with friends Rosie Escoto and Laura Calvi.

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, Mareh 8, 1990 . ~: INTERNATIO-NAL FEATURES :~···u··. . .. . · .. ·. ·~ .· .. . . '' ' ·.~r. . . ' . . ... . Experts Discuss Cr·eation Of Latin American 'TV Channel Suuure You.'re ~tudying In Barbados! . (Win:k, ·wink, nudge, nudge}t • BUENOS AIRES (COM/IPS),_A commission of experts designated by the Latin. American ministers of culture will consider the possibility o1 creating a TV channel for the -subcontinent. called Latin America One. The final report of the meeting of ministers for cultural intcgiation, which was held January 24-28 in the Argentine city of Mardel Plata, 400 kilometers from the capital, recommended the formation of a commission which is to report in 60 days: on the proposal for a technical• agency to facilitate formation of the channel. The Argentine culture secretariat said that this: production of Latin American programs was intended to make up for the shortage of sucll material produced in the region. Argentine Deputy Culture· Secretary Luis Duran told COM/IPS that cultural integration shouldn't only be limited to cultural manifestations like books, the visual arts, music, theater or dance, but also to the mass media that broadcast these manifestations. The Argentine draft is intended to take advantage of . technological· and economic potential and would not require extra spending. It win use existing infrastructure tG send out the signal, such as the intelsat satellite, in which Argentina has unused capacity. Argentina is han-dling feasibility studies, together with the staff of the rninisters meeting, and estimates are that Latin America One could be on the. air with a limited frequency · by the end of the year. The project was explained to the Spanish delegation which attended the event as an observer. It was headed by the vice president of the Commission for the Fifth Centennial, Pina Lopez Gay, who expressed interest in the venture. On Wednesday, March 14 GREAT DECISIONS '90 will present a program at the downtown branch of the Albany Public Library. The program will begin at 12:00 noon. The program is titled: VIETNAM, CAMBODIA AND THE US: Return Engag:ement? . The speaker will be Donald Thurston. Dr. Thurston is a Professor of History and Political Science at Union College The program is free and open to 1he public. Questions wi II be taken from the audience. Bring a bag lunch. Coffee and tea will be provided. WRITE FOR, . - - - . - ~ INTERNATIONAL FEATURES By JIMMY OSTROVE \When we havin' a good time in Barbados. we say we feelin' MASSIVE\t!t! The band launches into the aggressive combination of rhythms ·that marks the beginning of a soca medley. The crowd begins to dance: some with their arms stretched upward in a show of joy, some with gyrations of thei.r hips that accompany every kick of the steady bass drum, some alone, and some engaged in what can only be • . a young man walks the beach everyday, talking to the locals, surfers, and beachcombers. described (as the anonymous quote says) as \the vertical representation of a horizoNtal desire\-- but the Barbadians call it \getting rude on the dance floor,\ and it's a perfectly acceptable thing to do. The lead singer now leaps across the stage to sing with the bass player, \I like that beat/Sweet sweet sweet/like a birdy in the sky/I'm feeling high, high, high.\ In a back· comer of the club an aspiring anthropologist carefully watches everything ... and takes notes. At the other end or the island several students are in .bed early since the active life of their villages is mostly a daytime event. Tht' next day they will wake up to a chorus of roosters who refuse to let them sleep through the rising 0f the sun. Then they will spend the day chatting with various members of their communities, joking around with them, listening to their stories, maybe having a beer or two with their new friends and acquaintances ... and .. _ ... _____ 11111!111111 ________ .... _._ __ • · then take notes. • On th,e east coast a young W. ·~ .. w· . F.. man walks the beach everyday. talking to locals, surfers, and beachcombers. At lunchtime heill have to somehow manage SAVE THE massive quantities of food that W ·. ··ll·D· 'L·If·E are put in front of ltim by his extremely conscientious and WORLD grandmotherly home stay WILDLIFE mother. Afterwards he will go FED . ERAT·I.ON back out into the community. maybe look down at the waves crashing against the rocky c<mstline, feelth~ wind coming off the water breeze through his hair, say bell<J to a passing friend or three, ... and then go back inside to type up the notes he had taken during the morning. Greetings from Barbados! We hope that everything is going well in Schenectady. Our hearts are with ye>u-although the rest of our bodies are content to stay 15° above the equator for just a little 'bit longer. For t1J.ose of yell who don't know exactly where we are, Barbados is the eastern most island of the West Indies. It's a.rapidly developing island which is quite different roday than it was five years ago. The people are pleasant, the Government is stable; the food is good, and the sun is hot, but not too hot. Although m()st of us· don't have hot water, that's a rather small price to pay for the comfort of .the climate, the beauty of the landscape, and the opportunity to .get to know the people and tbeir culture. Before we begin to tell you about all the wonderful things· we've learned and the fun we've haG: since coming down to Barbados, we think it w(:mld be appropriate to let you know that we do work down here! This is my second term abroad and I find it more than a little insulting that many students, professorS, and members ofthe administration keep alive the idea that terms abroad are Bacchanalia11 free-for-alls that involve little work, much play, and the al>surd reward of \the guaranteed 'A'\. Before I go there, my friends, family, and s()me people in the . college cornmiJnity were of the opinion that, \'No matter what you say I'll never believe you're actually doing work down there.\ Sorry to disappoint you but we aren't lying out in the sun all day burning, blotching, and peeling like faithful vacationers from the Nortl!eastern U.S. are supposed to do. The point is simple: weare not vacationers. First, what is it about tbe climate, that makes people- think that no work, let alone plenty of quality work, can be done in Barbados? Does Union have a summer school program too? D-on•t we have Universities in the warm, and sometime:s tropical, climates of Florida, Texas, and Southern Califom:ia? Finally, how could you recollci:le the \no learning happens in a warm climate\ with the fact that Barbadians are ·some of the most ed\lcated people in our hemisphere boasting :a literacy rate lligher than th.at of the U.S. and stressing quality education for their you111g ones? Secon;(}, we've found lhat it's quite possible to budget our hours sp·ent awak,.e..so tbat we'll have ~ little time for entertain~ment and relaxation to complbh.e..nt· o\ur heavy workloalJ! and tasks. It would be ludicrou.s to suggest that, since we are away on a term abroad, we surre11der the right to enjoy ourselves:. and, if we do enjoy ourselves,, that that is aU .there is tb a term ·abroad. How many people ar Union kick back wil.h a book,. T.V., or Nintendo during t.li.e afternoon and then spend tlle yvening trying to We are: constantly analyzing our data, sizing u·p our experi;ences, looking for patter11s of behavior forget bow . little they accomplished today and how much :they'll have to do tomorrow .•. or the next day? There are j11st as many\ or as few, hours in a day in the Caribbeiln as there are in New York. Thkt, has anybady consideted the psychological pressure and reinforcement of a .strong work ethic that comes from having a small group of studen~ working intensely on the .same task? I noticed the same .strong (sometimes borderilsg on ·neurotic) work ethic i111 Greece last year. ProfesstOTS often find that their smaller classes turn in quality work. Why do people think that beiillg in a foreign country would .:au:se a deviation from this ph-tnomenon? It actually causes an exaggeration of it . ' because the group only has itself a; a \home-base\' and can't esc:ape from its workload into tltC; company of people who do11't know what t!Jey ate Continued on page 9 - Cm doi do. ] del stu tirr us ela tal< no ex1 th< of un cu sa en ne nc fo an tel a1 th he sc hl ty ai dl n! gl di or qt n~ fa ar

~r\•jt;\, ?~ ... \·r··{t.~'i\ '1\?.~.,l.\'\\<~:r~r t> t1 't CON~ORDIENSIS, M(lrch 8,.1990 INT·ERN A TI Q:N AL FEATURES Tropic.al Term Abroad Continued from page 8 doiug and: what they have to do. Basically, the work is demanding. As anthropology students, we really don't get time off. School is all around us and isn't relegated to the dassroom or lectlire hall We take notes in our ever present notepads (which are becoming extensions of our bodies} on· all that we see and heat waich is of interest when trying to understand the people and 1lheit culture. Later on, ejther that same day, or, if there isn't enough time left in the day, the next morning, we type up the notes we've been taking into formal field notes. I'm sure that any student on this teHn will tell you that he or she has been a more prolific writer this term than at any other time in hls or her life. By the third week, some peopJe had over one hundred pages in single spaced, typed notes. However, quantity of notes 'and hours spent writing them down faithfully are not necessari-ly the measures of good work. Indeed, the discipline we have to have in order to keep up with the quantity of writing is a necessary, but not a sufficient, factor to doing good woik. We are constantly analyzing our data, s*zing up our experiences, looking for patterns of behaviour, and trying to form a cohesive and comprehensive picture of the culture which is being hospitable enough to allow us to study it. Cultural anthropology is a qualitative study of culture and isn't, like sociology, mostly quantitative. While there is a degree of quantifiction of data involved in the work, most of the work is qualitati.,e. As such it is important for us to go out into our respective communities and meet people, form friendships, and: really listen to what people say. This might sound simple, but I hadn't realized before this term how often I tuned out of conversations with people and didn't process what they said. Cultur~l anthropology is a qualitative study of culture. Here, we have to listen so intensely that it is hard to turn that close attention off at times and can be quite a nuisance as it gets in the way of relaxation and \normal\ converstion. One of the things we'd like to .point out is that we are studying. people. The people of Barbados are reknowned for their friendliness and easy demeanor. However, this is a description which is a little too simple. The people here really do live here. This is their home. lfs not Disneyland or a zoo in which they are on display. They have day to day lives with day to day triumphs and disasters. While many of them are quite friendly, due to a combination of natural friendliness and a strong government campaign to promote tourism, the culture is not simply that hornogenous. Barbados has a much richer ,culture, like anywhere else. The people are normal people and come in all shapes and sizes. TheFe are beautiful people, kind people, friendly people, intelligent people, wealthy people, and poor people. Barbados also has its share of criminals, con~men, \beach boys,\ idiots, and asses. They all play a part in the culture of the society. Most of us live up in the northern part of Barbados, in the parishes .of St. Lucy, St. Andrew, and St. Joseph. Because of the distance of these places from Bridgetown, the center of the nightclub scene, we don't get a chance to go out too often. The buses stop running at midnight and a cab ride back to \the country\ is This Week in the World Soviet insurgent groups celebrate because Sunday's elections appeared to give major gains to pro~ democracy groups in Russia, the Ukraine and Byelorussia. But most contests will be decided by a runoff. Quotation of the Day \Worldwide .narcotics production reached new l e v e ls , c orr u. p t ion undermined e.nforcement efforts and a number of governments still jailed to exhlblt a serious commitment to reduci-ng drug production and trafficking.\ -State Department report on narcotics production. Quotation of the Day \In the larger cities, at least, there ·should now be a chance to speed up democratic change.\ Vasily S. Shakhnovsky, a dissident Communist who is favored to win a ·runoff for a seat on the Moscow City Council. F,ears of German unification are unjustified, Chancellor Kohl said. He said that Wes.t Gennans are fully informed about Nazi tyranny, and that East Germans' distate for Communism has made them goods, in order to erode its trade surpluses. . Contra leaders are trying to disband, but have yet to devise a coherent proposal for retuming home that they can present at their first meeting with President- elect Chamorro. Pollution in Eastern Europe, subject to little .popular protest under years of Communist control, still drapes many industrial communities, like Copsa Mica in Romania, in deep- black soot. \immune to any new Palestinians are losing totalitarian temptations.\ pivotal allies as the refonns in Eastern Europe Pretoria sent troops to a have begun to reverse 25 homeland where a military years of assh;tance by the coup against an unpopular Eastem bloc for Arab nations leader has resulted in rioting.· and the P.L.O. South Africa's Foreign Minister said the successful coup leader in Ciskei asked for the assistance. American hostages in Lebanon are not near to being released, Marlin Fitzwater, the White House spokesman, said, although \there is a lot happening\ behind the scenes. New analysis: U.S.- lapan trade talks focused on bringing Japan· further into the world community, especially as a larger consumer of the world's Indian troops killed at :least 29 pe9ple a n d wounded about 25 others in Srinagar, capital of the state of Jammu and Kashmir, when they fired on pro- independence crowds, news reports said. News analysis: India's oldest party faces a bleak future after being routed in recent state elections. Analysts tie the Congress party's decline to an increasingly diverse electorate with changing priorities. -Courtesty of New York Times too expensive to take. Only one student lives near the city, in the neighboring pari.sh of Christ Church, and the poor guy has t0 go out often and watch live music because his independent project is a study of the music culture. I'm sure you can sympathize. Other students are working on independent projects ranging from .political awareness among youths to the real attitudes of the people towards tourists and tourism in general. White saud, clear blue turquoise water, blazing sun ••. I think we deal with it pretty well. The research is tinged with an air of responsibility to our subjects because of the fact that we use people for infovmation and not books. Therefore, we sometimes feel a responsibility to the people we speak. to to do a good, faithful job with the information they give us. As I mentioned above, the fact that we are working our tails off doesn't preclude having a good time. Although we don't \go out\ as often as we do during regular terms, we still manage to have a good time. Some of you will get letters describing those times, which are often spent with newly made Bajan friends, from some .of us. Going out is simply a matter of being able to budget our time here. Because there is so much to do, and because going out is also a part of the culture to study, I don't think we party as hard as often as if we were back at Union. However, our entertainment doesn't consist merely in going out at night. The culture and our surrounding environment during the day are pleasurable forms of \entertainment and the beach is always nice. White sand, clear blue/turquoise water, blazing sun ... I think we deal with it pretty well. I hope that you have gotten an idea of what we do down here in the tropics. I also hope that I didn't make the term sound like an academic labor camp beacause, even with all the work, there is something about being down here that's exciting and pleasant in and of . itself. Maybe it's the sun; maybe it's the beaches; maybe it's the music; maybe it's the people. Most likely, though, it's a combination of those factors and the fact that we're not in Schenectady. But, as two of the girl's homestay brother says: \Such is life in the tropics\. See ya in April everybody! If you felt pressured, it probably was. Maybe it was someone you knew or someone close to you. Maybe it was yesterday, last week, or even years ago ... IT STILL HURTS. Rape is a crime of violence; You may have feelings that ha¥en 't gone away. The Rape Crisis Service of Planned Parenthood is here t~ help. Please call us anytime. • Ollr services are free and confidential • We are here 24 hours a day Let's talk 346-2266

Pa-g-e- 10 CONCQRJJIEN$IS, Yarclt 8, 1990 SCIENCE &-TECHNOLOGY Seasonal Affective Disorder and Phototherapy By SUZANNE SHAKER Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), a subgroup of affective diso1ders is characterized by se.ls\'J-a:al changes in mood and b~hawic:,r. Patients with the dis0rrder r.uffer from depression durimg fall and winter months, but with the onset of spring and summer their symptoms are Jielieved and, in fact, marty exp erknce euthymia or hypl()mania. The symptoms of winter depression: feelings of fatigue. oversleeping, overeating, carbohydrate cravings and changes in energy level, are thought to be related to !l decrease in the amount of surllight. Scientific research has; shown that nature's ligbt/dark cycle mediates hurrnan and animal ciFcadian rhythms and that the actual lenjjth of daylight mediates mammalian seasonal rhythms. A number of studies have fou.nd that SAD can effectively be ;treated by exposing patients to 'bright artificial light (which mimics the effects of sunlight) for a number of hours each day. By altering patients' circadian rhythms, which in those suffering from SAD are usually phase advanced or phase de1ayed, photogherapy \normalizes\ their biological cycles. Studies also indicate that individuals suffering from S~D have disturbed levels of melatonin, a hormone produced by the pineal gland which may be involved in mediating the cflfects of light on internal biological rhythms. Bright lig;h t treatment is believed to pr()duce its antidepressent effects by suppressing and al~ering the timing of melatonin secretion. Most scientists in the field agree that artificial ligh1. treatment does alleviate symptoms of winter depression, but controversy as to its mechanism of action still remains. Therefore additional information must be uncovered in order to more fully understand and explain the effects of light therapy. There are two closely related principal theories which attempt to explain the biological effects of phototherapy. Norman E. Rosen thai's original \Melatonin Hypothesis\ suggests that the intensity and duration of light are the critical components of light ilierapy. Alfred J. Lewy's \Phase Shift Hypothesis\ focuses on th( timing of light exposure (either in the morning or in the evening) in addition to brightness and duration. Lewy's hypothesis suggests that individuals with SAD have either phase advanced or phased delayed circadian rhythms. Investigators have discovered that by manipulating nature's light/dark cycle, through the use of bright artificial light circadian rhythms can be altered. The Phase Response Curve (PRC) originally developed to explain how animals reset their activity-rest cycles helps to support the Phase Shift Hypothesis. Investigators confined animal: to several days of. complete darkness. Their circadian rhythms became \free·running\ and in the absence of nature's light/dark cycle their internal biological clocks took complete control of their circadian rhythms. In order to test the animal's biological responses they were exposed to a brief flash of light. Results varied according to whel) the light occurred. Exposure during the diurttal _p;hase of the animal's circadian cycle had little effect because under natural conditions light would already be present at this time. During the nocturnal phase (closest to subjective dawn) the circadian phase position advanced and when the nash occurred during the noctnmal phase (closest to subjective dusk) the phase position was delayed. According to Lewy, humans have a PRC similar to those of other animals, therefore lluman circadian rhythms can be shifted by exposure to bright light as welL The critical factor in his theory is the timing of the light exposure. Phase advanced circadian rhythms would best be corrected by evening light treatment in mder to delay rhythms, whereas phase delayed patients should be treated with morning light thus advancing their rhythms. Rosenthal's Melatonin Hypothesis is based on evidence which indicates that the functioning of the pineal gland is altered in patients with SAD, therefore producing disturbances in melatonin -secretion. Originally it was thought that suppress<Jn of melatonin was the critical factor in bright light treatment, but recent developments suggest that altering the timing of melatonin secretion is actually more important in producing- antidepressant effects. Secretion of melatonin is regula·~ed by the diurnal!noclurnal cycle, it is suppressed during the day and released at night. HAVE COURA.GE- TAKE ACTION 1990 CISANY Conf·erence ·Catholic Intercampus Student Association of New York Wells College, Aurora?/ N.Y. March 30 - April l 9 1990 If interested in attending as a representative from Union please contact Sr. Joan CC404, 370-608_7 The d·evelopment of phototherapy as a treatment for seasonal .affective disorder began in the early 1980s at the National Institute of :Mental Health. ln the past decade research in the field has grown tremendously.· i'\lthough the. effects of light therapy have been quite successful its exact mediating process is still not fully understood. There is a possibility that the success of light therapy may in part be attributed to a. placebo effect. Most subjects who undergo bright light treatment are aware of the antidepressant efrects it is thought to produce. Although phototherapy ·lias generally 'been successful, the numbers of those who have received treatment Ls still very small and the :length ·of treatment time (generally three to seven days) is quite short. Tbese limited results d'o not provide sufficient eovidence in which- to completely accep• phototherapy as a successful cure for winter depression; The area's seasonal affectivedisorder and phototh~rapy must be more fully explored, i11 order to understand the j)llenomenon better, before phototherapy can unquestionably be accepted as an effective treatment of seasonal affective disorder. . ' America's last peacenik • • • WILLIAM SLOANE COFFIN Memorial Chapel Sunday, April 8th - 7:30 p.,m. NEEDED , A sophomore and a junior to serve on the HONORARY DEGRE.E COMMITTEE ApPlications available in 409CC ,, all week long ...

' . CO~CORD1ENSJS, March 8, 1990 I SCIENCE & TEC'HNOLOGY P:roblem ·Of the Week Eighth problem: Suppose ABC is a triangle with side BG of . . length 3., side AG of length 4, and side AB of length 5. Fi'nd the length of tne shorted angle trisector from C to AB. . (Contributed by Tony Prindle .. ) SolUtions should be submitted to Lois Bing in , · the Mathematics Department Qf.fice between · the hours ·Of 9 a.m.-11 a.m. atld 2 p.m.-4 p.m., · Monday through Friday. The winner of the weekly $10 prize will be sele<1ted randomly . frorn those who submitted correct solutions by 11 a.m. of the Monday after the problem has appeared in ·Concordiensis. The name of the winner and the names of all others who · submit correct solutions will accompany the following week's problem in the C.oncordiensi:s. Correct soluUons will be posted on the bulletin board ou1side Bailey 1 06 .. The Minority Affairs Committee Oor'dially In-vites Students, F acuity and· Staff T.o The \MULTICULTURAL DINING TABLE\ \A table where all ethnlc gro.ups can engage their differences in. a process of mutual enrichment.\' College Center Upper Class Dining Room Friday's 11 :30·1:30 Friday, March 9 Hosts: James Underwood Adrian Fratier John Sowa Carl Dickson Oliver Minott Lina Ngamtrtlkulpanit The Department of Computer Science is conducting a reappointment review of Assistant Professor Neal Mazur. Any students, faculty, or administrators that feel that they might be able to ccntribute to this review should submit written comments on Prof. Mazur's teaching, scholarship, or college service to David Hannay, Chair of Computer Science, via Campus Mail. Don't delay, Blood: A Valuable Resource Did you kii~>W that every day in Nortbeastem New York ... ~ At least thl:'ee people have open heart sur~eey requiring four units of bl()()<l each? At least twelve ;people must donate blood s.o these people can have this s111gery. · _ At least three to four patients with leukemia or another blood disease have transfusions ef platelets, and thirty to fifty- people must donate blood t& supply these patients with platelets. _ At least fiW~e infants, only days old, will Heceive a blood transfusion. · _ At least ()De child has surgery that :could not take place unless blood was immediately av.Ulable. The provisiom of an adequate a1~d safe blood s11pply is a responsibility shared by the American Redl Cross and our entire community. It takes extensive pla11ning and cooperation be tween the American Reel Cross and our community in. order to provide such an invalaable service. The process of donating blood only takes about one hour and it is both safe and easy. Before an individual donates blood, he/she first spends a few miimtes reading information on the actual process. Then a nurse goes over the individual's health history to make sure that the donor is in the proper physical condition to denate blood. Both the donor and the nurse then go over a series of questions that are concerned with eliciting symptoms that may adversely affect the donor and with protecting tile recipi,ent. The actual donation only takes about 15 min11tes for one unit of blood. After the donation, the individual will be escorted · to the canteen area wheJ;e he/she will spend at least 10 minutes relaxing and enjoying refreshments; Afterwards, the blood is taken to the lab where it is tested for syphilis, hepatitis, and antibodies to the AIDS virus. After the safety of the blood has been ·thoroughly checked, some blood is broken dow11 into components. These components are red blood cells, plasma and platelets. Red cells are used by patients undergong surgery, trauma victims and anemics. Plasma is valuable in treating shock victims. Platelets are used for patients with hemophilia and leukemia. This blood will then be used by 28 hospitals in our northeastern New York Blood region. Tb.ere is still no substitute f<>r human blood and donating blood is safe and easy. The American Red Cross is always in need of blood donations. Each donation of one unit of blood can be used to help as many as four patients in our community. Life depends upon people like you ... people who do11ate their blood. Please give the \Gift of Life\ today. For more informaton about blood donations, please call (518) 462·7461. QUESTION OF THE WEEK ·. QUESTION OF THE WEEK: \What do you believe are the risks for coronary heart dise11~e ... and how concerned are you and your friends about your potential risk?\ Lisa M~trclleschi '90 \Hi~h cholester-ol, srnokJng and obesity lead tQ heart disease. I ne\Ver really thought about it bef()re . . . and I don't believe any()n.e thinks about it . every day.\ ·March 13~ to:roo p.m. See yo~ in April. Lisa Plotnik '91 \I think eating fatty foods, lack of exercise and heredity contribute to coronary heart disease. Heart disease runs in my family, so I'm concerned - - but I don't think my friends are too concerned about it right now.\ Dave Passaretti '93 \Cholesterol saturated fats, lack of exercise, smoking and heredity all contribute to heart disease. I'm not concerned at all, not even the least bit -- it's the farthest thing from my mind. I don't think it bothers anyone . . . we're much too young to worry about it now.'' Schaffer Library .. Exte·nded Hours Sunday, March 11 - Tuesday, March 20 The Library will be open from 11 P .. M. to 1 A.M. for study·ing only . No circulating or reserve materials will be charged out. No reference desk services. · Please help us to keep food and drink restricted to the All Night Study area. Thank you.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Marcil 8, 1990 (!IJlttlllfbirnsts ·. ----· Founded at Union College rg77--- Witch Trials Revisited? \An Albany County Court jury of six men and six women (on December 18, 1989) began considering the case of 28 year-old Kenneth Smyers, accused of sexually assaulting five of his former C()-workers at Garcia's Mexican Restaurant.\ This December 19, 1989 Schenectady Gazette report went on to give details regarding the charges facing Smyers. The testimony of the five women was the only evidence against him in this case. The charges brought against Smyers were two counts of rape, two counts of sodomy, and one charge each of sexual abuse, attempted rape, and attempted sodomy. The guilt or innocence of the defendant is not for us to decide in this piece, and we do not lta.ve enough information to make a flir determination, anyway. What we do question, however, is the manner in which the proceedings against Smyers developed. · The women waited from three weeks to nine months before reporting the actions of Smyers. While this is common to many instances of rape, it can also raise questions regarding the credibility of the plaintiffs. In a case like this one, in paraticular, one must wonder if there was the possibility of conspiratorial behavior by the plaintiffs. It seems that, had Smyers had encounters with just one woman, or with women who did not know one another, he may never have been accused of date rape. Smyers was, in the end, convicted of S()me, but not all, of these charges. While the verdict may have been correct, it still carries a dangerous precedent. To some observers, it is reminiscent of the Salem Witch Trials. r - We know now that no witches really existed. We also know that there really are rapists and they do pose a terrible threat to society In that sense, perhaps these public excommunications are not l!_.nalogous. But there are important similarities. Will this mean, now, that any group of allegedly victimized citizens can indict an alleged criminal by a mere consensus in the form of public outcry? Probably not, because date rape is a crime unlike any other. Rarely does date rape leave physical evidence, and quite often the victim is unsure of what has happened. The Salem Witches, though, also did not leave physical·evidence, and their victims, since they were- not actually victims, could not possibly have been sure of what had happened. But when charges are drummed up and public awareness is aroused,. it becomes possible that a defendant can be unfairly accused. This is especially true when the victims choose to remain anonymous In this week's Concordiensis, there is an article (page 1), and a letter (page 12), regardingjust such an anonymous ace usation. There .are people whose job it is to elicit facts from such cases. When the plaintiffs remain anonymous, though, it is impossible for them to do their job. How can the Administration properly hand down a punishment if all it has to· go on is an anonymous allegation? When date rape is a prominent issue on campuses across the country, the Administration must be careful in taking disciplinary action with minimal evidence for proof of the student's alleged crimes. This case could be a precedent for other groups of students; who have a grievance with another student. The anonymity must go, and the argument against the defendant must be made stronger. LETTE,RS Bigotry Like Blindness ... But Less Colorful To the Editor: The recent wave of bigotry and' ignorance on this campus is appalling. The articles written in various publications on campus show a strong resentment ainong the white maj.ority of the campus .of the stri-des that minorities ar:e making in the United States. Are these people afraid of the drive of the minorities to suc()eed? Are they concerned that they wil:l not be able to put down another race for their own personal enjoyment? Are they just stupid? The answer is probably yes to each of the que-stons above. Tile object of their diss.atisfaction is the \ad-vantage\ given to minorities on admissions. The people whc are bigoted and short- sighted will not. unfortunately, look beycnd the grades required ' . for admission and go no able to .. It is .unfortunate that further. They will not look tc these people will pass the the fact that SAT scores are· ·hatred ·on to their next of kin. lower for minorities because What should be done with the standardized tests these people to stop the discriminate against them. As bigotry before it spreads. into well, they will not look to the .. the next generation? The fust low level ·Of education that solution is to kill them. No, minorities are exposed to, that is too good: they should while they went to a school suffer. The second solution is where caviar is served for to educate them. No, they are brunch. In short, they will not uneducable by this .point. The make the connection of low real solution is to educate the test scores to inadequate minorities and the next education. Instead, they see the generation of majority white. low test scores and believe that The education of minorities an intelligent person should be will make the 'present bigots ashamed for striving to get an suffer because they will see .the education because they were minorities succeed where they admitted to an institution with do not want them to~ Also. low test scores. they will suffer by not seeing The bland world of life for their children carrying on the the people who are bigotee torch of ignorance that they must be an empty and datk have been blessed with place of hatred for every person holding. that is less able to receive the fruits ef the ear.th as they are Sincerely, Brad Mondschein '90 Come Forward to Charge To tbe Editor: 'J'he Office of the Dean· of SttJdents. has recently received an anonymous letter that makes serious allegations agai.nst a student. The College · ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MpST BE TYPED·, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMfl'I'ED TO· THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND TIIOSEOVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not neccessarily reflect the • -· c opinions of the Editorial Board. wishes to treat those charge~ seriously, but in order to proceed further, since the person charged has denied the allegations, more specific information alld proof are required. I would call- on the letter writers to come forward and speak with me in confidence. Together we can decide how to proceed. Sincerely, Joseph L. Mammola Dean of Students

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, Marcil 8, 1990 aLllttfllrbirttsts _LE_TT_ER_S ____ _ -----Founded at U11i1m College 1877--- Witch Trials Revisited? \An Albany County Court jury of six men and si~ women (on December 18, 1989) began considering the case of 28 year-old Kenneth Smyers, accused (){ sexually assaulting five of his former co-workers at Garcia's Mexican Restaurant.\ This December 19, 1989 Schenectady Gazette report went on to give details regarding the charges facing Smyers. The testimony of the five women was the only evidence against him in this case. The charges brought against Smyers were two counts of rape, two counts of sodomy, and one charge each of sexual abuse, attempted rape, and attempted sodomy. The guilt or innocence of tl1e defendant is not for u:s to decide in this piece, and we do not have enough information to make a f.1ir determination, anyway. What we do question, 11owever, is the manner im which the proceedings against Smyers developed. The women waited from th.ree weeks to nine months before reponing the actions of Smyers. While this is common to many instances of rape, it can also raisoe questions regarding the credibility of the plaintiffs. In .a case like this one, in paraticular, one must wonder Lf there was the possibility of conspiratorial behavior by the plaintiffs. It seems that, had Smyers had encounters with just one woman, or with women who did not know one another, he may never have been accused of date rape. Smyers was, in the end, convicted of some, but not all, of the&e charges. While the verdict may have been correct, it still carries a dangerous precedent. To some observers, it is reminiscent of the Salem Witch Trials. We know now that no wjtches really existed. We also know that there really are rapists and they do pos;e a terrible threat to society In that sense, perhaps these public excornmunica6ons are not analogous. But there are important similarities. Will this mean, now, that any group of allegedly victimized citizens can indict an alleged criminal by a mere consensus in the form of public outcry? Probably not, because date rape is a crime unlike any other. Rarely does date rape leave physical evidence, and quite often the victim is unsure of what has happened. The Salem Witches, though, also did not leave physical evidence, and their victims, s.ince they were not actually victims, could n()t possibly have been sure of what had happened. But when charges are drummed up and public awareness is aroused, it becomes possible that a defendant can be unfairly accused. This is especially true when the victims choose to remaiin anonymous In this week's Concordiensis, there is an artic1e (page 1), and a letter (page 12), regarding just such an anonymous accusation. There are people whose job it is to elicit facts from such c::ases. When the plaintiffs remain anonymous, though, it is impossible for th.em to do their job. How can the Administration proper1y hand down a punishment if all it has to go on is an anonymous allegation? When date rape is a prominent issue on campuses across the country, the Administration rnust be careful in taking disciplinary action with minimal evidenc·e f10r proof of the student's alleged crimes. This case col!lld be a precedent for other groups of students who have a grievance with another student. The anonymity m1:1st go, and the argument against the defendant must be made stronger. ..... '\ ''IT;~~ii;\'.~~··~ R. Rettl·· :IJ:;zdde'D' f~r all. the patien;q~. ;:·\': •.. .,,:(,;k~~t~~: . . :; wh1ch you have ser .· ·rs,~t;Ittor ... :tn>-.;l chief for the ·past :~~lr .. • .. ,~· • . ·.- ...... ,: .,-u''' Bigotry Like Blindness - But Less ·Colorful To th.e Editor: The recent wave of bigotry and ignorance on this campus is appalling. The articles written in various publications on campus show a strong resentment among the white majority of the campus of the strides that minorities are making in the United States. Are these people afraid of the drive of the minorities to succeed? Are they concerned that they will not be able to put down another race for their own personal enjoyment? Are they just stupid? The answer is probably yes to each of the questons above. The object of their dissatisfaction is the \advantage\ given to minorities on admissions. The people who are bigoted and short- sighted will not, unfortunately, look beyond the grades required for admission and go no further. They wiH not look tc the fact that SAT scmes are lower for minorities because the standardized tests discriminate against them. As wet!, they wm not look to the low level of education that minorities are exposed to, whHe they went to a school where caviar is served for brunch. In short, they will not make the connection of low test scores to inadequate education. Instead, they see the low test scores and believe that an intelligent person should be ashamed for striving to get an ed1:1cation because they were admitted to an insti~ution with low test scores. The bland world of life for the people who are bigoted must be an empty and dark place of hatred for every person that is less able to receive the fruits of the earth as they are able to. It is unfortunate that these people will pass the hatred on to their next of kin. What should be done with these people to sta, the bigotry before it spreads into the next ge11eration? The first solution is to kill them. No, that is too good: they should suffer. Tile second solution is to educate them. No, they are uneducable by this point. The real solution is to educate the minorities and the next generation of majority white. The education of minorities will make the preselilt bigots suffer because they wi:H see the minorities succeed where they do not want them to. Also, they will suffer by not seeing their children carrying on the torch of ignorance that they have been blessed with holding. Sincerely, Brad Mondschein '90 Come Forward to Charge To the Editor: The Office of the Dean of Students has recently received an anonymous letter that makes serious allegations against a student. The College ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMI'ITED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND 11-IOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not neccessarily reflect the . .. OplDIOOS of the Editorial Board . wishes to treat those charge~ seriously, but in order to proceed further, since the person charged has denied the allegations, more specific information and proof are required. I would can on the letter writers to come forward and speak with me in confidence. Together we can decide how to proceed. Sincerely, Joseph L. Marnmola Dean of Students

CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS Spring Still Holds Promise Beta Angered at Administration's Neglect To the Editor: As a student at Union, 1 have become increasingly aw~ of the discontent among students with regard to the new poliCies being put into effect. I'd like to express my concern witli the bad publicity the Administration is getting without knowledge of the facts~ Cantrary to popular belief. I do not think. the Administrad9n, or the Dean of Students is out to take away our fun, My woFk .study job keeps me in the Student Activities office five da-ys a week. I am always aware of just what tile Administration, Mrs. Marra, the coordinator of Student Activities, and the class/club representatives are trying to do with regard to the new social policies. Many formal and informal meetings take place on the fourth floor of the College Center wbere alternatives to Camp Union ~e discussed for spring term. Student input is always weB regarded, arid responded to. I think getting upset aboat the fate of Camp Union is a . big mistake. The whole point ' of Camp Union is being missed. What is Camp Union\l Basically, an entire weekend' dedicated to fun in the sunny out4oors. Even without the band on West Beach, this can· and win still happen. CamJ) Union is not meant to be the main social activity of the entire tri ... city area, but only for Union Students. The committees involved , with the sQGial life at U ni(}n have combined to form a board . for student input on spring term events. This board has an exciting spring planned for us, including outdoor bands, comedians, and free food. Rest assnted that spring term will still be a term to be remembered. Cassandra Rowand ·n To the Editor: In response to the article written last week, concerning the eviction Qf Beta Theta Pi from its residence, Maxcy House, we, the brothers of Beta Theta Pi feel that it is necessary to further explain the situation to the college community and specifically to other fraternities housed in college-owned buildings. For the past few years, the question of the future of the Beta house, as a physical structure, has continually arisen. With the addition of 15 new pledges as well as a number of upperclassmen interested in living in the house in the future, it became evident that .something had to be done to ensure the future safety of the residents of the Maxcy House. A representative of the fraternity contacted Dean Alford, requesting a meeting with members of the administration in an effort to decide the future. of the house. Informant Confesses On January 9, five representatives of the fraternity met with various leaders of the To the Editor: Was my action unethical, campus administration. At this unprofessional, or immoral? I meeting the administration In a letter published in the fai:l to see what grounds stated that they wanted to February 15 issue of warrant such a charge. Not discuss the safety of the house, Concordiensis, David long ago, student andwhatthehousewouldneed Adinolfi criticized the English representatives were legally to be upgraded to a safe living department for its cavalier required to be present at quarters. We all agreed that the treatment of the unanimous de.partmental meetings.. house needed reconstruction of judgment of the student panel Although the practice ()f the foundation,. roof, interior that had evaluated candidates for electing ·such :representatives stairs, and chimney. We agreed a teaching position. J'here has been allowed to expire, I that the house was a fire hazard should be no reason for another know of no faculty action due to the faulty electrical letter to the campus paper to rescinding the legislation, and I wiring and the fact that the fire remind this community that have attended no meeting in escape had become dangerous freedom . of expression is as which the principle bas been to use. As the meeting went pFecious a right for students as d~nounced. Furthermore, I can on., the administration for faculty; unfortunately, the thillk of no reason to keep this explained to us what they felt actions of at least two particular vote confidential. needed to be done to the house colleagues make it necessary. Uulike some of the to make it safe and what the Last week, David was fatuity members who cost would be to the school. summoned into As~ociate voted, the student panel As a result of the high cost to Professor Y's office to be told attended all the lectures and the school, the .administration that \the department\ was very interviewed all the candidate1l. stated that it would not be upset with him. David was Why should these students not financially sound to invest in \tarnished and if he wisbed to be told the results of the the repairs of the house. In earn his way back toward grace, process in which they addition, after direct he should reveal who it was in participated? Or the ostensible questioning by the the department who- reasons that surfaced in tlle representatives of Beta, the \unethically \unprofession- discussion leading to the vote? administration stated that a ally,\ and \illegally\-re.vealed Are the members of the decisi<:Jn had already been made that the student panel's choice department ashamed of their . . to close the house permanently was the first of the four arguments? Moreover, if we are at the end of the '89-'90 candidates to be dropped from considering legality, I must academic year. consideration. David reft1shed question the right of X andY The fraternity does not to name his s.ource and the to speak for \the department\ question the decision of the pressure mounted as Ire was when there has been no action. administration because the school has been solllewhat Jax in keeping up the structural integrity of the hollSe. There can be only cne reason why the school l!as let the house fall into disrepair; because the adlllinistration wanted to force Beta off campus and blame its actions on the structural integrity of a school-owned house. Although we take full respo11sibility for the cosmetic damages to the house, these damages do not impact on the structural integrity. Saying the house is unsafe is easier todeJend to the Greek community than saying that the administration is phasing out fraternities. But it has become quite clear what the , administrations irttentions are concerning the Greek system. At the end . of this academic year, Beta will b~ve been the third fraternity forced off campus in.!he last four years. But with the gr()wing rift between the Greek:s and the administration, the administra- tion is now C()nscious of masking their anti-Greek sentiments and ac:;ticns. If the school did not want us off campus, why then did they not give us another house on campus. But as Dean Alford stated in the last issue .of Conco.rdiens is, \It is simply a matter of funding .. .'' along with the fact that there are no future plans for the house as of now. Why, tben, will the administration not let us reconsctruct the house through the funds of our national. thus saving the school the cost. What angers the brotherhood is not that the house is unsafe and is a fire hazard, but that the school has continued to let students live in the house and continued to charge the students a price that is comparable to living in Fox or Davidson. The school contacted the house the first week of fall term to tell us that the fire escape is unsafe and not to US{ it until it was fixed. It is now the last week of winter term and the fire escape still stands majestically rotted. We think that it is evident that not only does the school want us .off campus, but that they do not even care for tlte safety of the residents of the house. The facts of the matter seem very clear and we as a fraternity will prosper whatever the outcome may be, but we feel that the college community should know that we have been surreptitiously forced off campus to keep the school's \anti-Greek\ policy intact. Respectfully The Brothers of Beta Theta Pi R:ot.hberg School for Overseas Students JFJ®TbJJ~~ Unuaw~rr~ftf!y J ~F®~cnll®J]]l announces THE HoRACE W. GoLDSMITH ·MEMORIAL ScHOLARSHIPS 1990-91 The Rolhllerg School for Overseas Students of the Hebrew University 1s pleased to announ:e that a number of me11t scnotarsnlllS will be offered lor the 1990-91 academtc year. These awaros nave oeen ma~e avarlable lhrough the· genarostty ofiM Horace W. Goldsrnlth Founaalion. Horace Goldsmrth, a New Yor\ bustnessman, was deeply mvolved in Jewtsh affatrs and·was a benefactor of a vanety of Israeli causes. He·1irml!r' belteved in the tmportance ot Amencan Sl1Joents viSiting tsrael tor study programs. ELIGIBILITY Undergraduate and graduate.S1\IdEnts accepted for one-year programs oi SIIJdy at me Aotn~erg School for Overseas StuaeniS may submit their a®ticallons for these scholarshtos. Applicants wtll be consrdereo ';)'! the Goldsm•lh Seleclron Comm1ttee on the basts ol thetr ac:ademic and oersonal achrevements, and/or on the oasts o: financtal need. The awards wtll normally not cxceEI'd.s:<I.OOO. (Those students awarded the Goldsmilh ScMiarsnto who need rurttler assistallCe may also apply for an aldiUCinal Hebrew UnPierstty loan or stipend.) Costs for 1990·91 Applicabon·fee (non-refurtdalie): $ 40 Tuition: One-Year, FreShman, and Four·\earPrograms $3700 shouted at-for almost a half by \the department\ to address house is unsafe to live in and hour, I'm told. Earlier in the the issue. has fallen into disrepair. What - week, Assistant Professor X 1 find it wondrously ironic: we do question, is why has the Visiting Student $3100 Visiting Graduate Stuc:l~nt $2600 Visiting Research Stucjam $2200 had similarly hectored him. that I. a .conservative, .should house fallen into disrepair Two other students (wllo~ it be defending a view of student when ·tile school owns the might be noted, had caationed particiption that emerged house? Why hasn't the school David against sending the during the so-called Sixties and kept up wltb the repairs needed letter) have also been chastised. that the antagonists of this in. the house? These structural Why belay the students with view should be those who, problems just did not manifest rubber hoses? It was I who when they were studentsi railed themselves overnight. They inform~-· . not\leaked to\-the against the establishment. I have been building up and students. -· And surely both X have lleard .~ defend ~aniel compounding over the last five andY had good reason to infer Ellsberg (voc•fe~o':lsly • lf not years. It is tl!e school's this. Why didn't they simply . well). Is Y ~ 0 ~ willmg to gr~t repsonsibility to carefully ask me, as senior member of me the pnvtlege of doi~g watch over the buildings they the committee that had screened le-gally what EHsberg did own .and repair them whenever and interviewed the candidates? illegally? needed. It is also the school's I would have immediately FrankGado, responsibility to maintain the confmn((d their suspicions. Professor of English safety of buildings where The next issue of Concordiensis will be April 12th e~udents live. Any student or faculty member that has ever walked into the house would not need a degree in engineering to see that the fuition: Summer Ulpan $600 Winter Ulpar> $ 400 ()ormitofies: (dunf19 Summer LJipall) S 240 Far fuMer 1nlonnaoon ana applications ~ease call or write: (during academtc year) approx. $ 901monlh Food and exoenses: · $ 25Q-350.f month Office of Academic Affairs Hebrew Universit'{ of Jerusalem u East 69th Street New York. NY 10021 Tel.: !212) 4i'2·2288 Gone,. But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heal:h heri. The l:.abrador duck. The C:lroliro parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation i.e; working to sme endangered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federatiort 1412 16thStreet,N\V,Washington;DC 20036·2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,. N . . }

CONCGJl~DfENSIS, March 8, 1990' Page 13 LETTERS Spring Still Holds Promise B~eta Angered at Administration's Neglect To the Editor: As a student at Union, I have become increasingly aware of the discontent among students with regard to the new policies being put into effect. I'd like to ex.press my concern with the bad publicity the Administration is getting without knowledge of the facts. Contrary to popular belief, I do not think the Administration. or the Dean of Students is out to take away our fun. My work study job keeps me in the Student Activities office five days a week. I am always aware of just what the Administration, Mrs. Marra. the coordinator of Student Activities, and the class/club representatives are trying to do with regard to the new social policies. Many formal and informal meetings take place on the fourth floor of the College Center where alternatives to Camp Union are discussed for spring term. Student input is always well regarded, and responded to. I think getting upset about the fate of Camp Union is a big mistake. The whole point ' of Camp Unioa is being missed. What is Camp Union? Basically, an entire weekend dedicated to fun in the sunny outdoors. EveR without the band on West Beach, this can and will still happen.. Camp Union is not meant to be the main social activity of the entire tri-city area, but only for Union Students. The committees involved with the social Hfe at Union have combined to form a board for student input on spring term events. This board has an exciting spring planned for us, including outdoor bands, comedians, and free food. Rest assured that spring term will still be a term to be remembered. Cassan<lra Rowand '92 In.formant Confesses To the Editor: In a letter published in the February 15 issue of Concordiensis, David Adinolfi criticized the English department for its cavalier treatment of the unanimous judgment of the student panel tllat had evaluated candidates for a teaching position. There should be no reason for another letter to the campus paper to remind this community that freedom of expression is as precious a right for students as for faculty; unfortunately, the actions of at least two colleagues make it necessary. Last week, David was summoned into Associate Professor Y's office to be told that \the department\ was very upset with him. David was \tarnished and if he wished to eam his way back toward grace, he should reveal who it was in the department who- \unethically \unprofession- ally,\ and \illegally\-revealed that the student panel's choice was the first of the four candidates to be dropped from consideration. David refushed to name his source and the :Pressure mounted as he was snouted at-for almost a half hour, I'm told. Earlier in the week, Assistant Professor X had similarly hectored him. Two other students (who, it might be noted, had cautioned David against sending th<: letter) have also been chastised. Why belay the students with rubber hoses? It was I who informed-not \leaked to \-tJ1e students. -And surely both X and Y had good reason to infer this. Why didn't they simply ask me, as senior member of the committee that had screened and interviewed the candidates? I would have immediately confmned their suspicions. Was my ac1icn unethical, unprofessional, or immoral? I fail to see what grounds warrant such a charge. Not long ago, student representatives were legally required to be present at departmental meetings. Although the practice of electing such representatives has been allowed to expire, I know of no faculty action rescinding the legislation, and I have attended no meeting in which the principle has been denounced. Fu:rthermore, I can think of no reason to keep this particular vote confidential. Unlike some of the faculty members who voted, the student panel attended all the lectures and interviewed all the candidates. Why should these students not be told the results of the process in which they participated? Or the o-stensible reasons that surfaced in the discussion leading to the vote? Are the members of the department ashamed of their arguments? Moreover, if we are considering legality. I must question the right of X and Y to speak for \the department\ when there has been no action by \the department\ to address the issue. I find it wondrously ironic that I, a conservative, should be defending a view of student particiption that emerged during the so-called Sixties and that the antagonists of this view should be those who, when they were sludeats, railed against the establishment. I have heard Y defend Daniel Ellsberg (vociferously, if not well). Is Y not willing to grant me the privilege of doing legally what Ellsberg did illegally? Frank Gado, Professor of English The next issue of Concord iensis will be April 12th To tfhe Editor: Ill! response to the article writ1en last week, concerning the .eviction of Beta Theta Pi fronn its residence, Maxcy Hornse, we, the brothers of Beta Theta Pi feel that it is necessary to further explain the situ>ation to the college community and specifically to mher fraternities housed in college-<>wned buildings. For the past few years, the qu.estien of the future of the Beta JlQuse. as a physical structure, has continually arise11. With the addition of 15 ne.w- pledges as well as a mun:ber of upperclassmen interested in living in the h()u5e in the future, it became ev·itlent that something had to be done to ensure the future safety of the residents of the ~cy House. A representative of tD.e fraternity contacted Dean Alfcord, requesting a meeting with members of the a<im,inistration in an effort to decide the future of the house. ()n January 9, five re]Jcesentatives of the fraternity m~l vvith various leaders of the CllllJ!)US administration. At this meeting the administration st~ted that they wanted to dLsctlss the safety of the house, a11d what the house would need to be trpgraded to a safe living qua:rters. We all agreed that the homse needed reconstruction of the foundation, roof, interior st2irrs, and chimney. We agreed tlwlt tile lwuse was a fire hazard due: to the faulty electrical w]ning and the fact that the fire escape had become dangerous to- use. As the meeting went 011,. the administration expalained to us what they felt nee-ded to be done to the house t() Dl!ake it safe and what the cost would be to the school. As a result of t:he high cost to tile school, the administration stated that it would not be fi:llBncially sound to invest in tile repairs of the house. In addition, after direct q:u~stioning by the representatives of Beta, the adrninistration stated that a d~is.i<>n had already been made to close the house permanently at tbe end of the '89- '90 aca.detnic year. Tlte fraternity does not q11estion the decision of the a<hrninistration because the h-owse is unsafe to live in and luis fallen into disrepair. What we. do question, is why has the h.emse fallen into disrepair w,llen the school owns the h.omse? Why hasn't the school kept up with the repairs needed in the house? These structural prol>lems just did not manifest tiJemselves overnight. They lla-ve been building up and C:~llm}Jounding over the last five years. It is the school's re(Jsonsibility to carefully watcll over the buildings they owa and repair them whenever ne-eded. It is also the school's responsibility to maintain the safety of buildings where ::::u~ents live. Any student or fa~rulty member that has ever Vlalked into the house would not need a degree in e11g i11eering to see that the school has been somewhat lax in keeping up the structural integrity of the house. There can be only one reason why the school has let the house fall into- disrepair; because the administration wanted to force Beta off cam.pus and blame its actions on the structural integrity of a school-owned house. Although we take f111l responsibility for the cosmetic damages to the house, these damages do not impact on the structural integrity. Saying the house is unsafe is easier to defend to the Greek community than saying that the administration is phasing out fraternities. But it has become quite clear what the administrations intentions are concerning the Greek system. At the end of this academic year, Beta will have been the third fraternity forced off campus in -the last four years. But with tile growing rift between the Greeks and the administratioll, the administra- tion is now conscious .of masking their anti-Greek sentiments and actions. If the school did not want us off campus, why then did they not give us 3!10ther house on campus. B llt as Dean Alford stated in the last issue of Con cordiensis, \It is simply a matter of funding ... \ along with the fact that there are no future plans for the house as of now. Why. then, will the administration not let us reconsctruct the house through the funds of our national, thus saving the school the cost. What angers the brotherhood is not that the house is unsafe and is a fire hazard, but that the school has continued to let stlJdents live in the house and coatinued to charge the students a price that is comparable to living in Fox. or Davidson. The school contacted the house the first week of fall term to tell us that the fire escape is unsafe and not to US( it until it was fixed. It is now the last week of winter term aad the fire escape still stands majestically rotted. We think that it is evident that not only does the school want us off campus, but that they do not even care for the safety of the re:sidents of the house. The facts of the matter seem very clear and we as a fraternity will prosper whatever tile outcome may be, but we feel tllat the college community should know that we have b-een surreptitiously forced off campus to keep the school's \anti-Greek\ policy intact. Respectfully The Brothers of Beta Theta Pi a, 'cr I~h ~ Roth berg School for Overseas Students ~ announces THE HoRACE W. GoLDSMITH MEMORIAL SCHOLARSHIPS 1990-91 The Ro111oerg Schootror Overseas Swoents of the Heorew U.werstly tS pteasec to announce tna: a oull'be' o' ne·~ schotarsnt:lS 1wt oe oflered for tne 1990--9: acaaemtc year ~ase awaros nave ~een macle av<utac:e tnrougn tne : ge nerosrty of il1e Horace W. Goldsmith Founaatton. norace Gotasmltn a New York ous,nessma~. was oeepty ,r.voty-eo tr Jew:sr. a~a.rs a\d was a Oe\e'aC:P' l' a vanety of Israeli causes. He frrmly t)elieveo rn tne tmportance ~>1 Ameflcan sttJaents v.stttng ISrael tp• stuoy programs ELIGIBILITY ~naergraduateallll graduate students accePted for one-year prQgrams of study at ::-.e Rot~~erg Scnoor tor Ove'Seas 5:ucer.:s may StJOrntt.,'1err aoohcaltons for these scnorarsnrcs. l>.ppucaC\:S w,11 oe cors.cerec ~' toe JJtCS'\ :· Se'ecc~\ Commtnee on tlle:~s of thetr acaoemrc and oersona1 acnrevements. anCJor 0' tne oasrs 0' inanc,ar need .,e awaroswr11 normany not exceEJO $4.000. ,Tho5e studentsawa:ced the G~ldS:o1•:.'1 S;.'1o:a:-s·.o w~c ·eec \~-::-e· ass1stance may aJso aopry for an addtbonal Hebrew UntVersrty loan or SllPEnd.) Costs for 1990-91 ~ophca~on fee 1n~n-retundable): S 40 Turtton: One-Year. Freshman, and Four-Year Programs $3700 Visthng Siudant $31 00 Vis1Mg Graduate Student $26~ Visi11ng Research Student $2200 r urtl~n. Summer Ultla!l $ 600 For l'Jrtrler ~ntormanon and Wtnter U1()81' $ 400 aopilcatlons crease can or Wl1te · Dormnones: (dun 1YJ s~mmer Ulpan) S 240 (dun111J academtc yeal} acprox. $ 90 1 n1or.1t1 OHica of Academic A flairs Fooa ana exoer\Ses: s 250-350 1 month · Hebrew University of Jerusalem 11 East 69th Street New York. NY 1 0021 Tel.: .2121472-:2288 Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeott The heath hen The labrador duck The Caroliru parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows But it doesn't have w. The National Wildlife f-ederation i.< working to s.we endangered sped~ join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Fede1Jtion. 1-i 12 !6th Street,:\'\\', \X'a'ihington.IX 20036-2266 Working for the N.ature of Tomorrow,. Wll()LifE F DERATION

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, March 8 1 1990 LETTERS· American Cancer Society Thankful To the Editor: Last week, the sisters and pledges of the Delta Delta Delta ~orority held the second annual Jail 'n Bail to benefit the Schenectday County Unit of t:lte American Cancer Society. Students, faculty and staff united to help raise close to $9,()00 to help fight cancer. We v.Jould like to sincerely thank,everyone for their efforts. We \\'ou:ld especially like to thank the women of Tri-Delta who gave so much of themselves once again this year to make the Jail 'n Bail a success. Their dedication, hard work and enthusiasm are much appreciated. We look forward to working with Union College again in the future. · Sincerely, The Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society GOOD NEvVS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MO~TIAYS, 'WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GER.'VlA.'\f 3:00 PM SP . .:\NISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CIDNESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIA.\f 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder; Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM Co You Want VISA & MasterCard STUDENT SERVICES · Credit Cards? P·O. BOX 224026 HOLLYWOO!). FL :l3022 ' ES\' . I ~.,.,'toU·;t,,..l'I•\'Nr>ol'\'emn11•1'1c..C'IQnLt€'1danar.r.epted.;tP.dLI y · 1 1 card~·\t V 1 SA• andMnlll!rCarc:s-~~e'i,f~a,ds \•ny ... ur I e 1 nt VlSA•If-'8sterCardl' 1 l\\'ame\ EVE\' IF Y9U ARE NEW !~ CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 1 «a li'URNEO cow~ BEFO~E! · crM•t card!. EnoiC>Hd. f•nd $1500 which Is 1 , 1 1 O('JIIQI. refundable tf f\Ot aDOroved •mmedlatel)l ~#If• • VISA• and·fvllult~rC•~ thil!l cr.,d!t ea~? I \\' c; __.<\*\ •' you i~t!ti&N8 ant;t nl!led for • ID ~;-BooKs 1 - -· -- ,.1' t/' 0 4'' * DEPORTMENT SJORES * TUITIOii I \lAME ~ c.; <' 0 e9 * ENTERTAINYEI'IT *.EMERGENCY CASH t\· ~\' ,~ * TICMETS * RESTAUf>M\S I I 0 ,.. • HOTELS •·GAS. CAR RtNTALS I -. -· -~ 1- .... .1; ' * REPAIRS <1> AND fO BUILD ADDRESS ~.<) VOUR CR\EOIT RIIITIN(i! I' I ~c.- 'OUARANTEEDI GOLD CARD VISA/MASTERCARD GUARANTEED ISSUE Ofl MONEY UCIC I I I CITY STATE ZIP I ---~-~---· :. PHOI\!E• I :---------------1 I SOC SECURI'IY t All!lr<MI lblaluloly I a· • gulrllntl!!td !10 .. u,y . flU .1 ·- --' -- I oullhlst•ld iod•v .. 1 SIGNATURE , 1 VoureredltCirdsiJriiV~I•I•nQ' L. _ t_:JI.!':!L':£.!\'!!.1if..;!\£! '!±'1'2 __ ,, .. . Apathy Makes For Sour Music To the Editor: On February 25, the Union College Chamber Orchestra gave its one and only ·concert of the year. A few brave soul~ trekked through tile blustery snow, howling wind's, and bitter cold to find their way to Memorial ChaJ!el that miserable Sunday afternoon. After their body parts thawed out, they were rewarded with an exciting performance that spotlighted many of their fellow students. After the concert, the audie11ce stepped out of the Chapel into yet another Schenectady blizzard knowing that it, and other harsh realities of life~ were temporarily melted away by that warm, glowing, feel~good­ inside sensation that only music can produce. (Love~ sex, lboster, steak, ice cream, gummi hears, tennis, and basketball ar.enot far behind.) If you missed the concert, or didn't get around to reading the non-existent review in last week's Concorcl:iemsis, the following is a b-rief review from an inside source: The concert opened VJi th. the Overture to Mozart's Marriage of Figaro, followed by several excerpts with st11dents Marlo Amendola, Jose Andrade, D~vid Martorano, and Anna Patton as soloists. The orchestta listened to the singers very' closely, and the result was a marvelous balance never attained in rehearsal. Next, Concertmaster David Lai gave an exciting performance of the first movement of J(abalevsky's Violin Concerto. With his eyes tightly closed, Dave let himself go, feeling and freely expressing the emotions of the piece. The concert concluded with the delightful Symphony No. 99 in Eb major by Haydn. Coming out of high school, I was wavering between music and medicine. When I was accepted into the 7-year medical program here at Union, I knew immediately what my second major was going to be-- music. Th.is was perfect. ~ause now I could pursue both -of my passions without having to put one on the back: burner. The advantages of a small college are that you have more opportunities; shortly I will be in Greece with the Chamber Choir. My brotller, a violinist and musician of my ability, is a freshman at Harvard. They have three orchestras, and for reasons unknown to me, he wasn't accepted into any of them. Their Cl()ncert orchestra toured Asia Least year. Union College won't even hav:e an orchestra next terrn, which was apparently no loss for the first 190years. l guess wliat I'm trying to express is m~ frustration for the general musical climat( here at Unioll. There is a lack of support and interest oil behalf of thoe student body. This apathy· ·extends to many ether campus activities, especially wcmen's athletiCs, but that is an issue itself. To be truthful, I would never come to Union on the merits of its music progrrarn. There are, however, many wonderful opportunities available to students. Students are not taking advantage of these events, probably because they don't give a s - • -. If all they care about is drinking, that is their personal ~right, however sad it may be. I receivep my acceptance tc Albany Med today, which means that it is almost time to move on. I am glad, however, that I got a chance to do so much with music while here at Union. David Lai '91 ANNE LA BASTILLE, PH.D., ECOLOGIST AND AUTHOR NATIONAL LIBRARY WEEK GUEST LECTURER AT A.LBANY PUBLIC LIBRARY In celebrati()n of National Library Week (April 22-29}, the Fri;ends of Albany ·Public Library will present Dr. Anne LaBastille, ecological consultant, author, ·and photographer, as guest speaker at the main library, 161 Washington Avenue, Albany; 8 PM, Tuesday, April24, 1990. The public is invited; admission free. . Ms. LaBastille's lecture will be The Adirondacks - The :Be·auty and the Peril -- wherein, based on more than 20 years of living in New Y ark's Agirondack Park, she gives her personal viewpoint on the ecological and sodal.effects of the Park's use, its wildlife and wilderness, and the beauties and perils found in the .largest - and oldest- Park outside Alaska. The lecture is illustrated with slides. In addition to 130 articles for popular and scientific journals to Iter credit, among · book publications by this internationally recognized advocate of wildlife and wildland conservation are Beyond Black Bear Lake - Women an<l Wilderness - Assignment:: Wildlife- and Woodswoman. Soon to be published is Mama Poe, dealing with Dr. LaBastille's 24 years of research on the now extinct Giant Grebe in Gua ternala. · Dr. LaBastille has scientific degrees from Cornell University and Colorado State University, and holds an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from Union College and · 2 honorary Alumna awards. She has been a Commissioner of New York State's Adirondack Park Agency for over 12 years, working to protect this extraordinary 6;000,000 acTe Park, and is currently Chair of its Operations Committee. When not traveling, this \environmental crusader~~ lives with 2 Gennan shepherds (Cheldka and Condor) in a small log cabin - which she built herself with the assist of \pioneer work parties\ - irrtlle Adirondacks. Roger Tory Peterson, renowned ornithologist and conservationist, says: \Anne · LaBustille is a modem counterpart of Thoreau; but with the advant\ge of an academic background not available to Thoreau. Tllere is only one Anne LaB.astille, one of the most individualistic women ever to be involved with wildlife and the environment.\ ORIENTATION ADVISORS Applications are now available, for Qr.ientation Advisors for the Class of 19 94 Please pick up an application irJ the Dean of Students' Office College Center - Room 30 6 ,, Deadline for com'pleting the applications: Thursday. March 15. 1990 ...

Page 14 CONCORDlENSIS, Marth 8, 1990 LETTERS American Cancer Society Thankful To me Editor: Last week, the sisters and pledges of tlile Delta De.lta Delila Sorority held the second annual Jail 'n Bail to benefit the Schcncctday County Uait of the American Cancer Society. Students, faculty and staff united Lo help raise close to $9,000 to help fight cancer. We would like to sincerely thank everyone for their effmts. We would especially like to Open to aJI ·. a oand H1S}:f\J.;{l~~ ltlursday, Tuesday. Tuesday, Tuesday. Tuesday, Tuesday, Saturday, .. April 5th~• AprU 1'0th, Aprn 17\t:h:. . Ap rU 24tlt, May 1St; ·· May ,Sth, May 12th thank the women of Tri-Delta who gave so much of themselves once again this year to make the Jail 'n Bail a success. Their dedication, hard work and enthusiasm are m Hch appreciated. We look forward to woFking with Union College again in the future. Sincerely, The Schenectady County Unit of the American Cancer Society 7 ·AI) rt \\\-' I vv _ ~-jlo~'f\!J;~ 7:00 'p.m. 7:oc ·p.m. 7:0Ct p,m. 7:00 J).m. 7:00p.m. t:so p.m. First A~llearsat Rehe.arsal R\ehe~l· Rehearsal·. Rehear sat Rehearsal Parents We~~tend ~It '\All rehearsals are held in Memorial Chap~; • :For further information, ph~ase O<l1i Mark@ 3S1· .. 9l1S ·. GOOD NEVVS! Foreign langtwg~ ne11s programs will be shown in the Language Lab (H[! 010). All are welcome to atzend. Schedule: :VIO:\.-DAYS \'VED:--IESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 P:.VI GERvl<\.'1 3:00 P:'YI SP . .\_.\ilSH 4:00 P~l TL'ESDAYS & THuRSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 P:.Vl CHINESE 2:00 PM JAP~'IESE 3:1)0 PM RuSSIA'! 4:QO PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recordecl upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infomation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-10:00PM STUDENT SERVICES :Do :yc)u ·want. VISA·& fJI~sterCard .. . ·' · · C redlt ;C erG.•7: · . • P 0 BOX 2240:26 HOLLYWOOD. FL 33022 I • I ~~~,~~~\P.\:;.:~~ ·~~~~! ·;:'1n.~;::;~i,';~~,.~7r~,.;,~~~ 9 -~•~;~; I YES. 1 ~Btl' VISA•tUa!lerCarct- : l'la\'e· e .. ·EP.,t If vou ARE NE'N 'f-1 C~EDIT or HA.VE BEEN I TURNED OCWN BE~OR€.1 cred:tt -:::ards.. Encload hnd Sl S 00 'lfhtcP't •S f .,.... I i ~ refundable •I not approwtd •mmedl!ltely I 'C'~ \ v•~A· &nd fAU1erCard\ the cnwHt car1' I .. , c:.: ;(''- •' Y\l1U i\~9rvAand \'lP.dlor•tD *BOOKS 1 ---- ----- ------ -- I ,.II 6 o o•'' *' OEPARTIJE~r STORES • TUITION I 1\aAf..AE 1 O\ <\ 6 e9 * ENTEJ:l'fAtNMt=Nlr EMERGENCY CASH I ~ tt.'.)t ,..& • TIC'<E'TS. l=l£SfAURMHS I 0 ..>t' t-1>1QTELS•G~S•CARROHAl5J ------ --------I ... ./: • ~EPArRS '-AND TO BUILD ADDRESS ¥-0 VQUR CREDIT RATING' I 'GU~R~NTEEDI G()LO CARD VISAIIMASTERCAR!l GUAA·ANTEED ISSUE OFI MONEY lACK -------·----1 CfiV STATE ZIP PHONE e I I I I ------------------, SOC SECURITY e I Apt~orovel abeolutety giJar.,.le&d~oHurry hll ------------- I oullhi' catd today SIGNATURE l \'ol.lrttttdlt cards ~Jrew•lflrtrJ L _ UJl:!,i!t!_l·£.! 1ft A...fl!t! '!,!1•!:\ __ 1 Apathy Makes For Sour Music To the Editor: On February 25, the Union College Chamber Orchestra gave its one and only collccrt of the year. A few brave soul~ trekked through the blus;tcry snow, howling winds, and bitter cold to find their way to Memorial Chapel that miserable Sunday afternoon. After their body parts thl:lwed out, they were rewarded with an exciting performance that spotlighted many of their fellow students. After the concert, the audience stepped out of the Chapel into yet another Schenectady bliz:zard knowing that it, and other harsh realities of life. were temporarily melted away by that warm, glowing, feel-good- inside sensation that only music can produce. (Love1 sex, lboster, steak, ice cream, gummi bears, tennis, and basketball are not far behind.) If you missed the concert, or didn't get around to readi11g the non-existent review in last week's Concordiens is, the following is a brief review from an inside source: The concert opened witll the Overture to Mozart's Ma.rriage of Figaro, followed by several excerpts with students Marlo Amendola, Jose Andrade, David Martorano, and Anna Patton as soloists. The orchesl:ra listened to the singers very closely, and the result was a marvelous balance never attained in rehearsal. Next, Concertmaster David Lai gave an exciting performance of the first movement of Kabalevsky's Violin Concerto. With his eyes tightly closed, Dave let himself go, feeling and freely expressing the emotions 'of the piece. The concert concluded with the delightful Symphony No. 99 ~n Eb major by Haydn. Coming out of high school, I was wavering between music and medicine. When I was accepted into the 7 -year medical program here at Union, I knew immediately what my second major was going to be-- music. This was perfect, because now I could pursue both of my passions without having to put one on the back bumer. The advantages of a small college are that you have more opportunities; shortly I will be in Greece with the Chamber Choir. My brother, a violinist and musician of my ability, is a freshman at Harvard. They have three orchestras, and for reasons unknown to me, he wasn't accepted into any of them. Tlleir concert orchestra toured Asia last year. Union College won't even have an orchestra next term, which was appaFently no loss for the first 190 years. I guess what I'm trying to express is my frustration for the general musical dimatt here at Union. There is a lack of support and interest on behalf of the student body. This apathy extends to many other campus activities, especially women's athletics, but that is an issue itself. To be truthful, I would never come to Union on the merits of its music program. There are, however, many wonderful opportunities available to students. Students are not taking advantage of these events, probably because they don't give a s - - -. If all they care about is drinking, that is their personal right, however sad it may be. I received my acceptance tc Albany Med today, which means that it is almost time to move on. I am glad, however, that I got a chance to do so much with music while here at Union. David Lai '91 ANNE LA BASTILLE, PH.D., ECOLOGIST AND AUTHOR NATIONAL LIBRARY WEEK GUEST LECTURER AT A.LBANY PUBLIC LIBRARY In celebration of National Library Week (April 22-29), the Friends of Albany ·Public Library will present Dr. Anne LaBastille. ecological consultant, author, and photographer, as guest speaker at the main library, 161 Washington Avenue, Albany, 8 PM, Tuesday, April24, 1990. The public is invited; admission free. Ms. LaBastille's lecture will be The Adirondacks - The Beauty and the \Peril-- wherein, based on more than 20 years of living in New York's Adirondack 1 Park, she giyes h~r ~ersonal v~ewpoint on the ecologi~al and soci~l effects ?f the Park's use, 1ts valdhfe and wtlderness, and the beauties and penis found m the largest - and oldest- Park outside Alaska. The lecture is illustrated with slides. In addition to 130 articles for popular and scientific journals to her credit, among book publications l>y this internationally recognized advocate of wildlife and wildland conservation are Beyond Black Bear Lake - Women and Wilderness - Assignment: Wildlife - and Woodswoman. Soon to be published is Mama Poe, dealing with Dr. LaBastille's 24 years of research on the now extinct Giant Grebe in Guatemala. Dr. LaBastille has scientific degrees from Cornell University and Colorado State University, and holds an honorary Doctor of Letters degree from Union College and 2 honorary Alumna awards. She has been a Commissioner of New York State's Adirondack Park Agency for over 12 years, working to protect this extraordinary 6,000,000 acre Park, and is currently Chair of its Operations Committee. When not traveling, this \environmental crusader\ lives with 2 German shepherds (Chekika and Condor) in a small log cabin - which she built herself with the assist of \pioneer work parties~· - in the Adirondacks. Roger Tory Peterson, renowned ornithologist and conservationist, says: \Anne LaBastille is a modem counterpart of Thoreau; but with the advantage of an academic background not available to Thoreau. There is only one Anne LaBastille, one of the most individualistic women ever to be involved with wildlife and the environment.\ ORIENTATION ADVISORS Applications are now available for Orientation Advisors for the Class of 1994 Please pick up an application in the Dean of Students' Office College Genter - Room 306 Deadline for completing the applications: Thursday. March 15. 1990

CONCORDJENSIS, March Page ·15 s Thought about speaking at Commencement? The Department of Modern Languages invites you to A P·OETRY READING by If you are interested in ~peaking, submit a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4.th. GEERTJE POl'ASH- SUHR The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box . and phone numbers. \Why 1hank you •.••• Thank you verymuchl\ If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be notified about an audition. on Friday, March 9, at 2:30 inHU 110 BUY YOUR Dr. Potash-Suhr was raised and educated in Germany, as well as Switzerland and the United States. She holds a Plt.D. from the University ()f Illinois in Urbana- Champaign on Heinrich. Heine and now resides in Chicago. Her work is kno'.V n to German audiences through p()etry readings and n.td.io programs. A volume of her poetry will be published this year. her first novel, Die Neme, just completed, an<! a number of short stories are awaiting publication. LVERMONTt. Presents $ . • Allday! Sunday through Friday*. For a Whole lot ofSkiing!! c7 Trails • 17 Lifts J NOW! Dr. :Potash-Suhr's reading, in German, is part of Professor Kellenter's 20th CentlliY German Literature class and will be fol!()wed by a discussion of the poetry read. The visit is made pQssible through an IEF Grant. Present a valid college I. D. at the Main Ticket Booth. •TVot valid SaJwdays or durillg wee .I: of2118- 23190 .. $1.8 pviof!·is •nlicl thr<>ugh th< f!nd 0/tll< 1989-VO Ski s;.aum. F<>r ·irformation carl802-4114'8501. $30 Cash or check in CC408 HOW TO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY$1,000 A MONTH. lfyou're a math, cnginct•ring or physical sc.iences major, you cottld be cm'ning $1,000 amonth during your junior and senior vears. This excellent qpportunity is part of the Navv Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program. It's one ofthe most prestigious ways of cmcring the nudcar licld -and rewarding, too .. You gLt a $-1-,()()0 bonus upoi1 entrance into the- · program, and $2,000 tnm:e whcri you complete your Naval studies. Yvu also receive a year ofpaid gn\.duatc-kvcltraining thnt's the- most comprehensive in the world. And you '11' acquire expertise with stmc-of-thc-art nuclear reactor and propulsion plant technology. As a Navy officer, you 'lllead the adventure while gaini11g high-level expe- rictKe that will help make you a leader in one of the world's higJHcch industries. In addition to the prdcssional advmllag~s, mu.:lcar-tntincd ollicc:rs gt.l an unbeatable hcBL'iils package, travel opp<lrt u n i tics, promo! ions anJ a solid salary. Find out more a hom \he Na\'y N uclcar Propulsion ()nicer Candidate Program, and make )'our education start payingulftoday. Call Navy i\'\antJgc- mcnt Progran-1s: 1-800-444-7134 ~~ NAVY OFFICER You are Tomorrow. YolUl are the Navy\ *Orientation Advisors* APPLY NOW! Have Fun with Hundreds of New Studen·ts! Comeback early in the Fall! Help them in wa:ys tha·t will make them forever indebted to you! PLUS! get another exciting Union T-shirt! · Deadline for application: March 15. Applications available in Dean of Students o.ffice.

I CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 Page 15 ENIOR The Department of Modem Languages invites you to Thought about speaking at Commencement? A POETRY READING by GEERTJE POTASH .. If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRSo MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number~ name, box and phone numbers. SUHR If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be notified about an audition. on Friday, March 9, at 2:30 in HU 110 BUY YOUR Dr. Potash-Suhr was raised and educated in Germany. as well as Switzerland and the United States. She holds a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in Urbana- Champaign on Heinrich Heine and now resides in Chicago. Her work is known to German audiences through poetry readings and radio programs. A volume of her poetry will be published this year. her first novel, Die Neu(!, just completed, and a number of short stories arc awaiting publication. $ • [VERMONT I Presents All day! Sunday through Friday* For a Whole lot of Skiing!! ~Trails - 17 Lifts J NOW I Dr. Potash-Suhr's reading, in German, is part cf ProfcssClr Kellentcr's 20ttl Century German Literature class and will be followed by a discussion of the: poetry read. The visit is made possible through an lEF Grant. Present a valid college I. D. at the Main Ticket Booth. •Not valid S12torda;ys or during w~~k o[Zfl 8. '2JI90. $18 pric~ is valid through th~ trtd oft,e1989-!)() Ski S<<JSM. For injormt~lio~ cal/802-464-8501 $30 Cash or check in CC408 HOW TO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY$1000 A MONTH. If you're a ma lh, cnginecri11g (lf rhysical sciences major, you could b-e: earning $1,000 a month during your junior and semor vears. This e:-.:ccllent opporumity is pan of the Navy N udear Propulsit m ( Xf!ccr Candidate Program. It's one or the most prestigious wa~·s of entering the nuclear lleld- and rewarding, too. 'You ~ct a $-\.,000 bt)l1\IS upon en trance in \l) till' program, and $2,000 more whe11 ~·ou complete your Naval studies. You aisn rcccive a year or paiJ graduate- h:\'d lrnining that's thL' most comprehc11si \'e in the \\'orld. i\nJ you'll acquire: e:;.;pcrtise v;ith statc-of-thr-art nuclear reactor and propulsion plant technology. i\s a Navy officer, you 'llleaJ the aJ\'enture \vhile gaining high-level expe- rience that will help make you a leaJer in OtlC o!\ the work!\ hi~h-tech inJu Sl ries. In addition to the professional ad\·ant~tgL:s. nuclear-! rained oflic~rs get an un he:1ta bk hem·! its package, trawl oprort ll111ties, promotions anJ a solid s;tlary. Find out more about the H.l\\Y N uckar Propulsion ( )fliccr Candidate I >n 18ram, and make \I 1ur eduGil i1 ll1 ..;tan p~~~·ingolftoday. (:all Na\'Y ,\bnagc- ml'nt Prng:rams: 1-800-444-7134 . ·--· _:.~--'-- ~A~'¥¥ QFFICEI~ 1,· ~ ':J!Ou.r.. :arre .!10ll1ill.Ortror'VIIr'\ ~-- '1c0ru: mrre th(.e Navvo 1 ~--- ----·----------------------------d _____________________ j *Orientation Advisors* APPLY NOW! Have Fun with Hundreds of New Students! Comeback early in the Fall! Help them in ways that will make them forever indebted to you! PLUS! get another exciting Union T-shirt~ Deadline for application: March 15. Applications available in Dean of Students office. . ~· . SUMMER JOBS at CAMP SUSSEX Await You! Cabin and Speciality Counselors (male and (: female) needed at this 8 week, overnight; co- l: ed carnp iu the beautiful mountains of : Northern New Jersey. Also waterfront, pioneering, and nursing jobs available. Call Gary at (718) 261-8700 or (609) 753-9265 \

I ~ \ . \ I. ' •. ~. CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 ~f ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ------------------------------------------------------------------- And the • nom1nees are ••• BEVERLY HILLS. CALIF.-Here is a list of nominees for the 62nd ann wil Academy Awards announced Wednesday. 1. PICTURE: \Bom on the Fourth of July,\ \Dead Poets Society,\ \Ddving Miss Daisy,\ \Field of Dreams.\ \My Left Foot.\ 2. ACTOR: Kenneth Branagh, \Henry V\: Tom Cruise. \Born on the F<lurth of July\; Daniel Day-Lewis, \My Left Fodt\; Morgan Freeman, \Driving Miss Daisy\; Robin Williams, \Dead Poets Society.\ 3. ACTRESS: Isabelle Adjani, \Camille Claude!\; Pauline Collins, \Shirley Valentine\: Jessica Lange, \Music Box\: Michelle Pfeiffer, \The Fabulous Baker Boys\: Jessica Tandy, \Driving Miss Daisy.\ 4. SUPPORTING ACTOR: Danny Aiello, \Do the Right Thing\; Dan Aykroyd, \Driving Miss Daisy\: Marlon Brande, \A Dry White Season\: Martin Landau, \Crimes 2nd Mis<lemeanors\; Denzel Washington, \Glory.\ 5. SUPPORTING ACTA ESS.; BrE:·nd Fricker, \My Left Foot\; .Anjelica Huston, \Enemies A Love Story\; lena Olin. \Enemies A· Love Story\; Julia Roberts, \Steel MagnoliasM; Dianne Wiest, \Parenthood.\ 6. DIRECTOR: Oliver Stone, \Born on the Fourth of July\; Wooqy Allen, \Crimes and Misdemeanors\; Peter Weir, \Dead Poets Society\; Kenneth Branagh, \Henry V\; Jim Sheridan, \My Left Foot.• 7. ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY: Woody Allen, \Crimes and Nisdemeanors\; Tom Schulman. \Dead Poets Society\; Spike Lee, \Do the Right Thing\; Steven Soderbergh, \Sex Lies and Videotape\; Nora Ephron, \When Harry Met Sally .. .\ 8 . .ADAPTED SCREENPLAY: Oliver Stone and Ron Kovic, \Born <Jn the Fourth of July\: Alfred Uhry, \Driving Miss Daisy\; Roger L. Simon and Paul Mazursky, \Enemies A Love Story\; Phil Alden Robinson, \Field of Dreams\; Jim Sheridan and Shane Connaughton, \My Ll'ft Foot\ 9. BEST FOREIGN FILM: \Camille Claude!,\ France; \Cinema Paradisco,\ Italy; \Jesus of Montreal,\ Canada; \Santiago The Story of His New Life,\ Puerto Rico; \Waltzing Regitze,\ Denmark. 10. ART DIRECTION: \The Abyss,\ \The Adventures of Baron M~nchausen,\ \Batman \Driving Miss Daisy,\ \Glory.\ . 11. CINEMATOGRAPHY: \The Abyss,\ \Blaze \Born oh the Fourth of July,\ \The Fabulous Baker Bo·,s,\ \Glory.\ 12. COSTUME DESIGN: \T'1e Adventures of Baron • Munchausen,\ \Driving Miss Daisy,\ \Harlem Nights,\ \Henry V,\ \\Jalmont.\ 13. DOCUMENTARY FEATURE: \Adam Clayton Powell,\ \Common Threads: Stories from the Quilt,\ \Crack USA: Country Under Siege,\ \For All Mankind.\ \Super Chief: The life and Legacy of Earl · Warren.\ H. MUSIC ORIGINAL SCORE: John Vlilliams, \Born on the Fourth of July\; David Grusin. \The Fabulous Baker Boys\; James Horner, \Field of Dreams\; John Williams, \Indiana Jones and the Last C~usade\; Alan Menken, \The Little Mermaid.\ . 15. MUSIC ORIGINAL SONG: \After All\ from \Chances Are\; \The Girl Who Used to Be Me\ from \Shirley Valentine\; \I Love to See You Smile\ from \Parenthood\; \Kiss The Girl\ from \The Little Mermaid\; \Under the Sea\ from \The Little Mermaid.\ Movies at Proctors THE ABYSS (1989) Act1on loaded science fiction adventure where the crew of an underwater drilling platform tries to salva0e a nuclear sub. Rated PG-13. (140min.) A DRY WHITE SEASON ( 1989} Emotionally overwhelming, this anti-apartheid drama lured Marian Brande out of retirement and earned him an Oscar nomination. Rated R. (97 mir.~.) Sunday, March 11 at 3:00, 5:00, 7:00 & 9:00p.m. Monday. 1 2 at 7:00 & 9:00 ADMISSION: Adults $2.00, Children (12 or under) $1.00 Film program is subject to change. For information call: 382-1083 00 THE RIGHT THitlG (1989) Spike Lee's provocative 24 hours in an interracial Brooklyn neighborhood on the hottest day of the year. Rated R. (120 min.) 'Tuesday, March 13 & Wednesday, March 14at 7:00 & 9:15p.m. and Thursday, March 15 at 2:00, 7:00 and 9:15 p.m. SHIRLEY VALENTINE (1989) Pauline Collins rep.rises her T?ny-winni~g Broadway role as a • simple, middle-aged British hous.ewl!e w11o ~mds adven!ure and romance when she meets Tom Conti wh1le on a tnp to Greece. Rated R. .(108 min.) . . . . Saturday, March 17 and Sunday, March 18 at 2.00, 7.00 & 9.00 p.m. MUSIC BOX . ( 1989) Jessica Lange stars as an attorney who defends he~ father aga1nst charges of war crimes. Directed by Oosta-Gavras, the. f1lm has won the Golden Bear at the Berlin film festival. Rated R. (123 man.) Monday, March 19 thru Wednesday, March 21 at 7:00 &·9:15p.m. and t.hursday, March 22 at 2:00, 7:00 & 9:15p.m. THE ADVENTURES OF BARON MUNCHAtiSEN ( 1989) Terry Gilliam's comedy/fantasy opulently tells the .tale of t~e 1 8th-century German cavalry office~ who regaled friends With fantat1c adventure stories. Rated PG. (125 mll'l.) Friday, March 23 and Saturday, March 24 at 2:00,6:45 & 9:10p.m. Qn,ce Again ''Shades Of Grey'' Makes a St3tem.ent By JULIE MEDOW \Shades of Grey\ a student- organized annual play, was performed last week in Davidson, Fox, Hickock, and SS016. This winter's play, entitled \Channels\, was set up in a similar fashion to past performances, with seven short sketchy scenes portraying lift> on Union's campus, and the problems that are associated with college existence. Directed by Marcy Wein and Evan Marrow (who also played the roles of two young children fighting \over what to watch on TV), \Channels\ dealt with topics of substance abuse, eating disorders, date rape, comrrtunication, sexual identity, coping with death, and prejudices. Each scene touched upon familiar ground, although some isses were more relevant for certain audience members than were others. The cast of \Shades\ played different parts in each segment of the production. and they made the roles come alive with what ·could be called scary, but very real, truths. For example, Sari Sckolnick's portrayal of a young woman who was date raped, and Greg Mishkin's performance of the rapist was constructed to show both sides of the story of \that night\ and the misunderstanding of exactly what constitutes \rape.\ This scene, as well as others, was performed in order to make students aware of what is going on socially on Union's campus, a:nd t.o> raise consciousness and possibly find :mlutions to these problems. Perhaps the most irnportam message given out by \Shades o( Grey\ was lhe u11dedying theme of comtnunication. In every skit, from \De2ling with Death\ to \Sexual Identity\ the resolving factor was the ability to talk with one another. \Shades' it~elf is communication, because i.t brings controversial and \let's- brush-it-under-the-carpet\ type issues into the pulJ.lic .arena, and then opens the floor for a discussion afterwards. The question is .•. will pe(lple listen to what they hear? Social Alternatives in the Capital District: IN ALBANY: THE EGG will host a benefit performance of the Queen's Theatre's production of William M. Hoffman's \As Is\ in the Studio Theatre, Saturday, March 10 at 8:00p.m. For tickets call465-1190. ARSENIC AND OLD LACE will premiere in the Main Theatre at The Egg at 8:00 p.m.,. Friday, March 16. Additional 8:00 p.m. performances are scheduled March 17, 23, 24 and 30, with matinees at 2:00p.m. March 18 and Apri11. For tickets call 443-5111. . . THE TROY SAVINGS BANK MUSIC HALL will present a noontime· concert on Tuesday, March 13, 1990. The performers will be the Empire . State Youth Percussion Ensemble under the conduction .of Richard Albagili. For information call 273-0038. AT UNION;, MOVIE: \Sea of Love\ March 9-11 at 7, 9, 11 p.m. POETRY READING: Geertje Potash-Suhr, in German, on Friday, March 9 at 2:30 in HU 110. Sponsored by Dept. of Modern Languages. HUGH WILSON: Cancellation of March 14th organ recital. On Campus Movie: Friday thru Sunday Mar& 9-11 Sea of Love 7, 9, 11 pm Call Theaters for Show Times. . ! ~ t

. 'I ' !\ l j ' ...:'•' CONCORDIENSJS, March 8, 19.90 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT . HOROSCO.PES BY \A\ Threepenny - A Review : ~JSCES: This week the combination of your present state of : cehbacy and the stress from fmals is going to turn you into one large hormone. Clearly, this must be remedied, do it indiscretely. · ARIES: Horny? What's new? Aries are insatiable .in every area of their lives. This week cool down a little and get your · • academic life in gear. Think about spending the ~pcoming break .. doing something productive, and making a little cash-· you are . going to need it with .the spring term thatis ahead of you! TAURUS: Your lacking sex life is not accommodating to · . your .work h~bit~. It .is just adding t~ your stress. Exercise may . am~horate thts sttuatton and also get your body back in shape for : · spnng break. Expect good news in the mail. · . . GEMINI: This week an intriguing person w.ill enter your : . hfe. Unfortunately the tetm is almost over, but do not overlook · ~is J)erson's impact on you. Next term this person will play an mteres~ing role in your life and you will find that they will have , . a certam power over you. . · CANCER: Sex,. sex, sex .. is that aU you can think about . • these days. Fortunately for you this need: can be satisfied, if not • by someone you cate about presently, then by an admirer you are · • • pre~ently unaware of. You are irresistible these days, but do not · let 1t go to your head, and keep your priorities straight · LEO: Though the temptation may be great, do not engage in the patty scene this week. Drinking will only end in · embarrassment and your work load is piling up. If you need a • change. check out the movies at Crossgates or go horne to visit your family. VIRGO: Make sure your ~tress caused by upcoming finals . does not interfere with your relttionships. Carefully balance your life and spend the coming weekend with a loved one -- forget the outside world. LIBRA: If you have recently met someone very special, expect the coming weeks to prove just how much you care about each other. Make sure to not let things fade over the spring break. Spend the remainder of the term working and playing. hard. SCORPIO: The past week has been difficult where relationships are concerned, however~ all will work out fine. Yo~r e~phasis this week should be on finishing up that paper which ·ts due shortly, or getting a head start on studying for a final. · SAGITTARIUS: Anyone who has wronged you this term · will get what is theirs this week. Sagittarius' tend to be revengeful by nature. By the end of the term all of the loose ends in your life will be tied. . CAPRICORN: Capricorns are very sensual creatures. They . emanate an air which turns on people around them. Be careful 1 that you are not leading people on unnecessarily. Is it worth it to boost your ego at the expensr of hurting someone else? Next term it is time that you settle d )Wn. AQUARIUS: If you have 1iot met someone special yet this term, you will meet a powerful partner of passion this week. · Al!hough nothing may happen before the end of the term, expect' qmte an experience next spring term. . .._ ___________ _ ·t I I I -~.-, The WRUC NEW 8.97' 1 Gratitudes and Influences I I I The entire Athens Georgia movement,' I C~afty Karen, Krafty ~rik, John Morgan, I IScreeching Weasel, Ministry a~d ~II the~ I Wax· Trax bands, The Bynum-Braver I 1connection, Buncher,. Sanger, Fuller, I 1 Ulouk, 10,000 Maniacs, the late lamented 1 1 Husker Du, Walt Disney, Cyn, and Nini. 1 1 Thank you. . 1 I Artil!t Title ~ I 11. King Missle M · al ysuc ... 12. Sincad O'Connor 12\ Nothing Compares\ 1 .3. Midnight Oil Blue Sky Mining 4. Cowboy Junkies 12\ \Sun Comes Up\ .. 15. The Rave-Ups Chance 6. They Might Be Giants Flood 11. The Silencers Blues For Budda 1 8. The Creatures Boomerang · 8.97 Stone Roses 12\ \Fools Gold'' 1 Eyebrow Raiser ....... \Telepltone Thing\ I I Shimmy Dis4 Chrysallis I Columbia 1 RCA Epic I Elektra 1 . Oeffen RCA I ·I - The Falll . I Compiled,· finally, by Ron Evgenio 1 By DINA SCHWEITZ.ER A:rts Editor Bertold Brech's \Threepenny Opera\ performed at Union's Nott Memorial from February 27-March 3, was a very long production which lasted almost three hours~coinciding with the fact that it was called, \Threepenny\, it had three finales, there were three scenes. ' in each of the three acts, and all for three bucks! The \Threepenny Opera\ required a lot of singing from the cas.t. Unfortunately, however, I felt there just weren't enough people in the play who could carry a tune, and those who could simply out shone those who were mediocre. Considering it was an opera it seemed to me to be inheritantly important that the actors and actresses could sing. My problem with. the singing was that on an individual basis several cast members had a hard time singing on key, on the other hand, when the cast sang together they sounded great. In the beginning of the play a sign read, \Takes Place Sometime in the Twentieth Century\ and in tihe play the characters wore costumes indicative of th.e ear'ly twenties/mafia. Rowever, in the set there was .a computer sitting on a desk which seemed to clash with the ama of the twenties. Here, it -didn't seem clear to me whr the clash should be so appar~nt and if the play was to be intentionally modern then I think the play should have been modernized overall. Furtherm()re, the play takes place in Lond()n, but few of the characters .:-;;poke wilh a British accent. S()me did and some didn't and I felt it should have been one orthe other, bHt not both. There were several scenes, however, which ca.ptured my attention. For instance, in the jealousy duet between Polly Peachum and Lucy Brown, the women break in to a singing battle in which they cut each other aprut with their words. Their voices together made the scene capturing and exciting, for their vocal <!J.armony was better than most ()f the other songs sung thrcughout the l L AUDI'\fiONS for John Steinbeck's BURNING BRIGHT A joint Arts Department/Mountel:lanks prese~tation to be performed over \Parent's Weekend in the Nott Memorial Theatre (Eight perforti1ances, May lOth thru May 19th) Directed by Lee Bloomr.,sen Audtions will be held on Monday & Tuesday, April 2nd & 3rd from 7:00 pm on in th~ Nott Memorial Theatre Prepare a short monologue or read from the script. Auditioning will take 10-15 minutes. Sign up alone or bring a partner. The· cast will include two men and two women. SIGN UP IN THE NOTT MEMORIAL GREEN ROOM NOW! A script is a-vailable there for your perusal L-----------------J· h-------------------------------~ performance. Additionally, the vocal harmony between Mac the Knife and Tiger Brown in Act I, scene 2 proved to be successful for !he same reasons previously mentioned. In both scenes, the audience could hear what they actors/actresses were saying and thus the cutting words so pertinent to the plot came to the fore. Additionally, I thought the set and the music greatly enhanced the play .. The balconies above the constructed stage gave rise to the feeling that I was watching an opera, and the fact that the tnusicians were hidden from the audience .,.s- added a hint of drama to the · production. lt is hard to say exactly why this production didn't pt:ovoke J110re interest from the audience. Perhaps it was because the theatre was so warm and the play so long that the audience seemed tired and withdrawn. Additionally, it was lacking in several areas and therefore, the production failed to reach its audience. Although I did enjoy small pieces of the play, these pieces were too minute to make the play an overall success. l T H U H 0 G A S E E T E E E D HUGH WilSON OFF KEY Hugh's March 14th organ recital has been cancelled ~ \

CONCORDlENSIS, March 8, 1990 The next issue of HUGH Concordiensis . WILSON·· OFF :KEY· will be on April 12 Deadline for submissions is April 1Oth. Hugh's March 14th organ recital has been cance.lled Have a great Spring break! ·.:.~::<,\:\ ;/-;. . \• o I . The fl O\ver of hope MARCH ·. 28, 29, 30 00 A bunch For more information call your local unit of the American Cancer Society 377-2241 I AIVlERICAN '91 CANCER ~SOCIETY® Help us keep winning. ItS cooler than the TENURABlllTY C·OMMI'TTEE FORME.D An ad hoc committee of the Faculty Review Board has-been· formed tc investigate and report · on the tenurability of Associate Professor Walter · Hatke of the Arts Department. · Any member o,f the Gotlege community who wishes to contribute 'to the committee's review of . Ha1ke's teachi.ng, scholarly activities, or col·lege · service may submit written \testimony by April 9, 1990 to any of the following members of the co;mmittee: professors Martha H,!Jggins · (Anthropology), chair; Martin Benjarnin (Arts); Carl· George . (Biology); Harry Marten (English) .. Interviews also may be arranged through. Professor Huggins .. *Orientation Advisors* APPLY NOW! Have FUn :w;th · Hundreds o·f New Students! Comeback · e~rly in the . F e:tll! Help them In ways th.at will make them forever indebted to you! PLUS! get another exciting Union T-shirt! -. Deadline for .application: March 15. Applications · available in Dean of Students office. Remember to reapply for financial aid !scholarship • loal:l • work study) BY APRIL 15TH Applications ava.ilable at the Union College Flnandal Aid Office 2nd .FIOGr, Becker Hall • 37!Hll2:3 Why sweat in the Caribbean when you can cruise the slopes of Okemo? Midweek lift tickets are 5()% off for c~llege students, so it's cheaper than the B<iha.mas, too. Call (802) 228-5571 for lodging, (802) .228-4041 for general information. Okemo Mountain. So cool it's hot. 0 K E M 0 M 0 U N I A I N .A_ L U D L 0 W, V E R M 0 N r·

CLASSIFIEDS Win a Hawaiian Vacation or big screen TV plus raise up $1400 , . . ' d' '\ to · lllJUSt ten .. ays .... Objective: fundraiser; com- · mHment: minimal; money: raise $1400; cost: zero investment. Campus organi- ations, clubs, frats, sororities. CaH OCMC 1-800-932-0528 or 1-800-950--8472 ext 10. Attention: Earn money watching TV! $32,0QO year income potential. Details. 1- 600-83 8-8885 ext TV -7090. .. CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 ·CAMPUS: NEWS $32;000/year income potential. Details 1-602-838-8885 ext . Bk-7090. A~tention: Easy wor·k . e.xccllent pay! Asscm ble products at home. Details 1- , 602.83 8-8885 ext. W -7090~ AttetJtion • Government seized vehicles from $100. Fords, .Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. 1-602~838,;8885 ext. A-7090. PERSONALS E- Shalom! How's the T.V. lounge? I miss you! -w Egg·A-Muffinis here. I like Egg-A-Muffin. Egg-A-Muffin No thanks, H:~ave to drive. Mel, Bask, and Bethy, Oh my God! No more personals until New Orleans!! Jazz, French Quarter, food, drink, good times with good . friends. Love, Amy We will miss you John!!! Nicole Gonna hav u party Johnny! \Make a mess\ in Washington! -Bug Out RA John Page 19 Medon, CHILL!!!! You'll get everything done! Get psyched for Friday night - I'm going to win!!! Luv ya, xxxoooxxx Sheryl George & John Don't let me do anything stupid in Florida. Well on second thought just don't let me get arrested. -13 days my friends. Christos Grizz, Attention: Government homes from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602- 838-8885 ext. GH 7090. Australia Study Abroad - one or two semesters, apply now f!)r summer or fal11~90. Paid internships available. For information on the best semester abroad program in the worldcalll-800-245-2575. What is Egg-A-Muffin? Thanks for being a great RA. We will miss you! Have a good time in Washington Thanks for a great time doing hockey games this year. Good * . luck next year. I know it won't Attention: Earn Money Students - part/full ·time T y p i n g at home! Cruise Ship jobs. No $32,000/year income potential. experience necessary. 1-800w Details 1-602-838-8885 ext.. T- • 926-8447 ext. C-138-3. 7090. Attention: Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings . without waiting list or test. $17,840 - $69 ;485. Call 1- 602~838-8885 ext. R-7090. Attention: Earn money reading books! Found • Black lea·ther jaclcet. Has been at Fiji for long time. Owner call Steve at x4151. Students/ entrepreneurs: Instant cash, grants and loans, government guaranteed. 1~800- 926-8447 ext. G-138-3. Hey seniors! Less. than a week · and we'll be done With the \T\ word! Let's l()ok forward to an awesome sp•ring term! -A Jdl()w thesis victim Congratulations to my little brother. Here's my keys. Love,. Karen No more trivia, no more trivia, no more trivia,. no more trivia, no more trivia. no more trivia Johnny RA - Have a great time, enjoy the break from us on the mos.t radical floor in Union. C- Ya - Bill .APRil, 1990 1989·90 SPRING TERM REGISTRATION PROCEDURES Love, Your favorite girls in 312 Arison, I think you're hollow chocolate on the outside, but substanial bark within \BocianTheory\ Cords & Ox Thanks for being so conducive to my annoying habits! I appreciate it & it's almost over. Love, Nic John - Have a great time in Washington! Thanks for always being there! I'll miss you lots!!!! Love - Sheryl Spring Term classes will begin on Monday, Apryl 2nd. Student schedules will be distributed to student mailboxes located in the College Center prior to the be~inning of classes. Duplicate copies of class schedules will be available in Old Chapel on the first day of classes. Formal registration will take place in OLD CHAPEL on MONDAY and TUESDAY, APRIL 2nd and 3rd. Stude.nts are reminded that ALTHOUGH YOUR SCHEDULE MAY BE COMPLETE (YOU REQUIRE NO CHANGES) YOU ARE STILL REQUIRED TO FILL OUT THE REGISTRATION PACKET. EVERY STUDENT SHOULD GO TO OLD CHAPEL TO FILL OUT THEIR REGISTRATION PACKET. The RegistratiOtn procedures consist of the following steps: 1.) Plck up registration packet 2.) Fill out and make necessary correction to the data 3.) Drop cards in designated boxes This process is required of EVERY STUDENT EACH TERM THEY ARE IN ATTENDANCE AT UNION COLLEGE reaardless of whether or not tbey have finalized their schedule or have paid for the term. Failure to complete the registration packets may jeopardize financial aid awards and academic credit. Registration packets are considered late after MONDAY, APRIL 9th and will be assessed a fine of $25. If you anticipate returning to school late, please notify the Registrar's Office immediately. Provided there is a legitimate reason, we may be able to waive the late fee. It is, however, the student's responsibility to notify their instructors if they anticipte returning late .for classes. The last day to declare a course \Pass-Fail\ is MONDAY, APRIL 9th. The last day to make schedule changes (add, drop, section changes) without special permission is FBI DAY, APRIL 13th. An; course dropped or switched after that date will result in a grade of \W\ on the studentis transcript. Payment of term bills or to resolve any billing problems will be handled in the Business Office located in the Administration Building. · be the same. Christos Switz, Glad you could finally make it t() our Monday night meetings! Cat, Tara, Gwen, Robin and Ms. Auten At first it was bizarre and then it changed. In the words of Harry- ,;Meow.\ KB- You wore a miniskirt to have my eyes pop out, if you dance ... -MR Geek/Dweeb Finally sparing us the sight of you in your bathrobe'? Hope D.C. if fun. See you next year! Hey Meier youRockhcad! Nice to abandon us! What's the • matter John, can't finish the job? Don't worry, we all have our problems. Have fun while you stay down in D.C. -Jordan Joh, now that you are leaving who is going to mooch all of our food?! Have a great time in D.C. -Seth Pete, Are you ready to babysit? Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!! ~· ....

.... Page 20 PERSONALS :MEIER!! MEIER!!! MEIER!!! Dear Sheryl F., The last few weeks have been absolute heaven! I hope that the future will be as euphoric. You will always be my princess. I love you'! -Bruce CONCORDJ,EN$1S, March 8, 1990 --·•'-'' CAMPUS· NEWS . Jenn, Anna, Dav, Cati- Buses Buses Buses- Yes 100 -Marlo Cyndie and Jcnn, Welcome to Union Junior High. De we move up next term? Get psyched. -Love, Marlo Jenn, Holly, Kathy, Jocelyn, I miss you. ['m psyched for 301. Shots soon? Love you, Marlo Trouble in Paradise. Norman v. Abbey. The conflicts continue. Norman & Norman, Eight little monkeys jumping on a bed. Four jumped into · another bed. What can you .do about the Abbey's Nothing! Love, Norman- ( A former Abbey) Kathy, ·Just think • in 2 weeks, we'll . be sunburned in Florida. (And drinking?) Good luck on the rest of your work! Love, Kil:ler Robyn, I l,lm really psychr.d you are my daughter! Good luck on finals, and smile! · Little E, Love, Killer Cookie Monster, Santa, Big Bird, Grampy's, TCBY, my frozen NYC toes; Andy, & me · E- . miss + love you. Come home · Shalom! Hope you're having a soon. blast! I can't wait to see you! -Love, B · We can go bowling (I've been Sunday, March 11, '19,9& 7 t 9 & ll . CC Alld Film~, S@a,~{ ~~e~~\f}:in~<,J·v SHOE by Jeff MacNelly 6ood l:J 4 nt:lt,, ; ,. -rn~ JA,\IGt.l~' wrrn CW1M ~AUt£, It/£ ~t:A ~AUO~ ... A~l?TJ.I~ V~L.. PAI<NIGIAIJA. 13VT W '(OU 'TUII.JK 111~ Wog!7~ ''J;.ION~GT'' AN[! ''~IX ... MII.-~ION­ W !-LA r<: PA '(.v'Al( ~~ .. )''• ~F;f2 APPfiA~ IN 111~ ~AM~ ~GIJTG:NCE.? ·~· ~'(.)'; --=·\>\' -· ....... . -... .... . · saving up!) · Love;.- R To my little Hulkarnaniac- Glens Falls Civic Center! Get . psyched to ·see blood of a · different consistency! Love, the Hulkster To all of my friends named Norman -Life al;lroad program? Sign me up! I hate Al;>by! Love, Norman You say •. You'd never hurt me and you still want to crack my ribs'?? L.F.A. OK. Here goes my last 50¢. But it's worth it to wish you a very happy birthday next week. (It's also ch~per than a card!) · Love ya, EEP Bellvue, We're almost through, just hold ort! Your beautiful and don'tlet · anyone get you down. Good luck on finals and think spring! Love, Ape woman from hell Joe, Winter term wouldn'Lhave been the same without you. Thanks for .all your help (especially Friday night!) Do11't ever stop smiling and don't work too hard! Love, Lise Beware Lice Alert! ! ! If your head itches, don't take a chance, check it out!!! Hey JD, ED (girls) & MQ. Not only psyched for the Winnebago, get psyched for S- • D--·· Spring Break! Y()u know who!!! · · ·Hey Guys- Get psyched for the Winnebagc and the keg! I am. You think I can get on the Wheel of Fortune before then?!?! Craig- Love, MQ's, Cuz's Roommate Congratulations · you're no longer a \personal. virgin!\ Enjoy it and enjoy it nowl And get ready for spring term noL that we've practiced! Sean aka the abominable snowman! Next time we pass out, leave us alone, please. Quimby family ( and frie11ds) It's been such a random term. I'm scared to see what happens from here! But L.Q. we're so happy for you! --only 12 days til break!!! Melissa~ I'm impressed - you're definitely developing · a backbone • not much of one but you're improving! Too bad I can't say the same! But ob well ... I'm having fun! Love You!

,. Page 20 CONCORDJENSIS, March 8, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS MEIER!! MEIER!!! MEIER!!! Dear Sheryl F., The last few weeks have been absolute heaven! I hope that the future will be as euphoric. You will always be my princess. I love you! -Bruce Jcnn, Anna, Dav, Cati- Buses Buses Buses- Yes 100 -Marlo Cyndie and Jcnn, Welcome to Union Junior High. Do we move up next term? Get psyched. -Love, Marlo knn, Holly, Kathy, Jocelyn, I miss you. I'm psyched for 301. Shots soon? Love you, Marlo Thursday, March 8, 1996 8 & 10 pro CC302 Cabaret - 2 Shows Friday, March 9, 1~90 · 4:30pm CC Atrium TGIF: Live Jazz 7, 9 & 11 CC Aud Film: Sea ofLove 7:30pm CC302 Coffeehouse Saturday, March 10, 1990 5:00pm UCDH Culinary Expose' 7, 9 & 11 CC Aud Film; Sea of Love Sunday, March 11, 1990 7, 9 & 11 CC Aud Film: Sea of Love Trouble in Paradise. Norman v. Abbey. The conflicts coatinue. Nonnan & Norman, Eight little monkeys jumping on a bed. Four jumped into another bed. What can you do about the Abbey's Nothing! Little E, Love, Norman- (A former Abbey) Cookie Monster, Santa, Big Bird, Grampy's, TCBY, my frozen NYC Loes; Andy, & me miss + love you. Come home soon. -Love,B : ':-''•'' Kathy, Just think - in 2 weeks, we'll be sunburned in Florida. (And drinking?) Good luck on the rest of your work! Love, Killer Robyn, I am really psyched you ave my daughter! Good luck on finals, and smile! Love, Kil:ler E- Shalom! Hope yo1:1're having a blast! I can't wait to see you! We can go bow liRg (I've been T ._,,, hsd. ·ay .l\Al.a·· 'I:'\P-... · 1 ;3· · ·t·t~'.I'D.,. ·· .. . U\ ·· . '· ' ' H'.t .. oi 'Vii .o:;.L .•. ,... . ..• ,. (. \. X-> •. 6:30pm CC4 HJ.S~u~ent E~mtn - :·:---·,·'. . . Wedtu~sday, Ma.;tcll.··t4~ .. 1f~O, 3:00pm CC204 BigJ),r<ijSii .. Recruiting 5:00pm 5:00pm CC302 Medimtion Smdy UCDH Culinary E:x;pose 1 Good Luck on Your Exams SHOE by Jeff M&eNelly I'U.l1AVf:: /l.lE. 0'(&f6~~ 11-lE. C,P\~A~ ~Al-A]/ ... 11-i~ [M1C.K£:N I'IZGA~I. W i(O[I1WNK 1U~cGoe. f?l~ ~IGI1T~ A!ZG r;;!X[;IJ? 1J.!S t..-t!J6!A~I W ml c;f,AM ~A!JCE, 111E- 0~ 'bC.AUOP~ . -· A;.Jt/W~ 1/~1.­ P'Ar<MI GIAIJA. f'[JT W '(OU 1UikJK 111~ WOI2[7~ ''UON~GT\ ANI/ ''~IX·MII-l...ION­ W I--tA R PA 'f'J7A'( '~. saviag up!) Love,- R To my li~tJe Hulkamaniac- Glens Falls Civic Center! Get psyched to see blood of a differen.t consistency! Love, the Hulkster To all of my friends named NormaR- Life abroad program? Sign me up! l hate Abby! Love, Norman You say .. You'd never hurt me and you still want to crack my Fibs?? L.F.A. OK. Here goes my last 50¢. · But it's worth it to wish you a very happy birthday next week. (It's also cheaper than a card!) Lovcya, EEP Bellvue, We're almost through, just hold on! Your beautiful and don't let anyone get you down. Good luck on finals and think spring! Love, Ape woman from hell Joe, Winter term wouldn't have been the same without you. Thanks for all your help (especially Friday night!) Don't ever stop smiling and don't work too hard! Love, Lise Beware Lice Alert!!! If your head itches, don't take a chance, check it out!!! Hey JD, ED (girls) & MQ, Not only psyched for the Winnebago, get psyched for S- - D---- Spring Break! You know who!!! Hey Guys- Get psyched for the Winnebago and the keg! I am. You think I can gel on the Wheel of Fortune before then?!?! Craig- Love, MQ's, Cuz's Roommate Congratulations you're no longer a \personal virgin!\ Enjoy it and enjoy it now! And get ready for spring term not that we've practiced! Sean aka the abominable snowman! Next time we pass out, leave us alone, please. Quimby family ( and friends) It's been such a random term. I'm scared to see what happens from here! But L.Q. we're so happy for you! --only 12 days til break!!! Melissa- I'm impressed - you're definitely developing a backbone - not much of one but you're improving! Too bad I can't say the same! But oh well ... I'm having fun! Love You!

i i p .• '<,f.'',.t. ;; .t-~ ....... _.,1-~. , .. ,~_,, 'J\lf('~_~f.'\t .... • CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Sparky- Pespite your cruelty, the hot cinnamon suits. you well Mr. Brown DearJohn RA- 1'11 miss you .. Have a terrific tenn! D- Jen Diazen J On to much fruit! . Good luck on fmals. Enjoy your spring break and get ready to party you know where spring term. _ Love, Your Daughter Jolm RA You're the best Morty Keep smiling have(un in D.C. Love, Becky Delta Gamma Sisters- Thanx for making winter term special. Good luck on finals and }lave an awesome break! Love, yout little Pi Alphas Congratulations to KAPPA SlGMA, Team Ed/Webster House and CHAOS., The Winners Of WRUC TRIVIA '90 Many Thanks to players, sponsors and Promotional Assistants! . Jamie- How did things go with • \Canada\? Write and tell me. -Lisa Cast and Crew of 3-Penny Opera, Thanks for a wonderful 2 months. I had. a great time with all of you. Some, .of course, more than others. The fact that Jenny turned me on ... Mac Vanbo, You're sarcastic, vicacious, virtuous, incon- gruous, unpredic.table, ingen- all the interesting nights and gossipy Sunday mornings. It's been unbelievable! Get psyched · for March 24th. Love~ KKK Hope- You have 5 min:. till_ ....... It's only just begun. Yo11're the best lil' sis I could have asked for. Love; Your big sis Annamaria, Anna Bess, and Noelle, Get psyched for fun in the sun. Hilton Head, here we come! Luv you guys, on Tuesday. I was touched. -Much love, ThePoopcr Abrasion, I .give you some goodlovin' -Thelma Fric I want your baby! -Wanda Rosita, Did you happen to find a phone on 3rd floor West? Gracias! . ious, vocabularious, authentic, conspicious, sentimental, PERKY. comucopic, zealous, Jcn Love Dog, · ,spunky, perplexing, fascinating and fun. -SPARKY- Jettaman, Spaghetti and Meatball, We had fun partying with you guys Saturday night. But, then again we always do. You guys are great! You are filling Maude's · position well! Pledges, Oops, Gamma Phi Beta . Pledges ... Are you there? -Sparky- i.e. SRK L()ve always, y ou'rc the best! Linguini andTortellini . The Sisters Mooch- , ?peteschwab? !poprockstakealeak! Beware al Chris's and Todd's Ditzes on the loose. -J&B R tchel, PPP's Kirby- Tl anks for all your help, for To the Union Big Club- You are very big with me. Thank you for your salutations ·RAPE SERVICE of-·.···--~'·\· ······ · Schenectady PLANNED PARENTHOOD 346-22'66 Dave - Go for it! Dr. Ruth could really use a boyfriend and you CERTAINLY need the action. When you give blood ,·ou grr~ . ~ another birthUJ\: anod1er :mn.i\ ·er~~·ln: anotl1er laugh. ~mod1t:r htlg. ~modlerch:lncc + American Bed Cross Weekly Crossword \IT'S A MATERIAL WORLD\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Chicago District 5 Char 10 Roli of cloth 14 Unemployed 15 Open the bottle 16 Nowayr 17 Jan ven der __ : Painter 18 University of Paris, eg 19 Cicero's robe 20 Embossed fabric 22 Glove material 24 Wonder 25 St. Jolm --~ Founder Soc •. of St. Frances de Sales 26 Tent material 29 .Hamburger holder 30 Bring together 34 Comfort 35 Water_~ 36 \Water seeks __ _ level\ 37 Health org. 38 Ascot 40 touseegg 41 Amount due?, eg: 2 wtls 4.3 Baseball stat 44 Letter carriers' defense 45 Parking or postage 4.6 Mr. Coolidge 4.7 More contemptible 48 Male hebrew name 50 Flying mammal 51 . Gown and drape materials 54 Style of dress 58 fixe: Fixed idea 59 Stair part 61 Existence: Latin 62 Follows ''TEEN\ 63 Cold turkey person 64 Network of nerv.es or blood vessels 65 Follews \BUT\: Valets 66 Semi~sheer material 67 Plant part DOWN. 1 Tree arm 2 River to the Baltic . 3 Bread spread 4 Sheet material 5 Shoe material 6 Fol·lows \PROV\: Territory 7 Sgt. 8 Eight pints 9 Sw.ords 10 Bows partner 11 Expression of concerra 12 Dlympic event · 13 \ she blows!\ 21 Shoemaker 1 S tool 23 Type of triangle 25 Stiff lining material 26 Blue jean material 27 Uplift 28 \Strike when the iron \ 29 Ball point pen 31 Hebrides Island and New York State College 32 .More than once 33 Pop in 35 Foot: Combining form 36 XX minus XVII 38 Spunk 39 Table: Abbreviation 42 Material workers 44 Cotton and Increase 46 las Vegas establishment 47 relief 49 Abrev. ior Monsig11or 50 Pattern of stripes in knitted fabrics 51 Pill holder 52 Border 53 Ogle 54 Experience 55 Understanding wards 56 Combining form meaning bone S.7 Necessity 60 Star war initials For answers, see page 17

l I ' '' • ' . } ' ' , t -. ' CONCORDIENSIS, Mtrrch 8, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Dear John RA- 1'11 miss you. Have a terrific term! J On to much fruit! JohnRA You're the test Jen Drazcn Morty Keep smiling have fun in D.C. Love, Becky · Sparky- , Despite yollf cruelty, the hot cinnamon s11its you well. Mr. Brown D- Good tuck on fmals. Enjoy your spring break and get ready to party you know where spring term. Love, Your Daughter Delta Gamma Sisters- Thanx for making winter term special. Good luck on finals and have an awesome break! Love, your little Pi Alphas -~~ . . ~ . ' ~~...-· Congratulations to KAPPA SIGMA, Team Ed/W ebster House and CHAOS., Jamie- • How did things go with \Canada''? Write and tell me. -Lisa Cast and Crew of 3-Penny Opera, Thanks for a wonderful 2 months. I had a great time with all of you. Some, of course, more than others. The fact that Jenny turned me on •.. Mac Vanbo, You're sarcastic, vicacious, virtuous. incon- gruous, unpredictable, ingen- ious, vocabularious, authentic, conspicious, sentimental, PERKY, comucopic, zealous, spunky, perplexing, fascinating and fun. -SPARKY- Jettaman, Are you there? Mooch- ?pctesch wab? -Sparky- i.e. SRK ! poprockstakealcak.! all d1e interesting nights and gossipy Sunday mornings. It's · heen tmbelievable! Get psyched for March 24th. Love, KKK Hope· You !lave 5 mia. tiH ...... . It's only just teg11n. You're the best lil' sis I could have asked for. Love, Your big sis Annamaria, Anna Bess, and Noelle, Get psyched for fun in the sun. Hilton Head, here we co1r1e! Luv you guys, Jcn Spaghetti and Meatball, We !lad fun partying with you guys Saturday night. But, then agai11 we always do. You guys are great! Love always, Lingu.ini and Tortelli ni Beware a1 Chris's and Todd's Ditzcs on the IODSC. Page 2i'' on Tuesday. I was touched. -Much love, ThePoopcr Abrasion, I give you some good lovin' -Thelma Fric I want your baby! -Wanda Rosita~ Did you happen to find a phone on 3rd floor West? Gracias! Love Dog, You are filling Maude's position went Pledges, Oops, Gamma Phi Bet:.~ Pledges ... You'r~ the best! The Sisters Dave - Go for it! Dr. Ruth could rc:.~lly usc a boyfriend and you CERTAINLY need th .. : j actior.. -J&B To the Union Big Clut•- The Winners Of WRUC TRIVIA '90 Many Thanks to players, sponsors and Promotional Assistants.' R \chcl, PPP's Kirby- Tl anks for all yotu help, for You arc very big with me. Thank you f<Jr your salutations RAPE SERVICE of Schenectady PLANNED PARENTHOOD 346-2266 Weekly Crossword \IT'S A MATERIAL WORLD\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Chicago District 5 Char 10 Roll of cloth 14 Unemployed 15 Open the bottle 16 No way! 17 Jan ven der __ : Painter 18 University of Paris, eg 19 Cicero's robe 20 Embossed fabric 22 Glove material 24 w.onder 25 St. John __ _ Founder Soc. of St. Frances de Sales 26 Tent material 29 Hamburger holder 30 Bring together 34 Comfort 35 Water __ 36 \Water seeks __ level\ 37 Heallhorg. 38 Ascot 40 louse egg 41 Amount due?, eg: 2 wds 43 Baseball stat 44 letter carriers' defense 45 Parking or postage 46 Mr. Coolidge 51 Gown and drape materials 54 Sty.le of dress 58 fixe: Fixed idea 59 Stair part 61 Existence: Latin 62 Follows \TEEN\ 63 Cold turkey person 64 NeiYiork of nerves or bloo~ vessels 65 Follows \BUT\: Valets 66 Semi -sheer material 67 Plant part DOWN 1 Tree arm 2 River to the Baltic 3 Bread spread 4 Sheet material 5 Shoe material 6 Fol-lows \PROV\: Territory 1 Sgt. 8 Eight pints 9 Swords 10 Bows partner 11 Expression of concern 12 Olympic event 13 \ she blows!\ 21 Stloemaker's tool 23 Ty11e of triangle 28 \Strike when the imn \ 29 Ball point pen 31 Hebrides Island and New York State College 32 More than once 33 Pop in 35 Foot: Combining ·form 36 XX minus XVII 38 Spunk 39 Table: Abbreviation 42 Material Winkers 44 Catton and lllcrease 46 las v.egas establishment 47 relief 49 Abrev. for Monsignor 50 Pattern of slri!Jes in knitted fabrics 51 Pill holder 52 Border \Xhti 1 \'( )LJ gi\ ·e hK l( k. \'l lll ~1\' ,· ,'. ' ' :II luUlcr Dll\UIUJ' J!h )Utcr :tnlli\ tT-iJ!\. ~mt )tl1cr law~:. Jnoti1cr hL!~ ~ ~moU1lT dune .. + American Red Cross 53 Ogle 54 Experience 55 Un derstandin!J words 56 Co mllining form meaning bone 57 N~cessity 60 Star war initials 47 More contemptible 48 Male hebrew name 50 Flying mammal 25 Stiff lining material 26 Blue jean material 27 Uplift For answers., see page 17 ... .......

SENIORS Thought about speaking at Commencement? If you are interested in speaking, subn1it a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. :! The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone nun1bers. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be qotified about an audition. \Why tl1ank you .••. Thank you very much!\ :! Theres Time. I ·~ ,. DON'T ·DESPAIR I I , ~-\~p;lC.lt~Jn.:; avl.1:.i2;~ .lt :.::e I I .' ... .. I I 't:moc c~u~;;e r.J.at:c:a: . .O..a or:ice :!::ci Floor, Beder Ha;] • J7Hl23 _, ~~,~~~~~~~ Re:-r.e:-:lbe: :o re:::pply for financial aid !s,·:,o!3~shb. loan • work studyj BY APRIL 15TH . ' Ludlow House More fun than you thought you could have in a residence hall!! Ludlow House Applications available @ x6830, x6820, or through any member. • Located in Webster 1st stop by anytime Applications due Marc. h 9 ' The Department of Modem Languages invites you to A POETRY READING by GEERTJE POTASH- SUHR on Friday, March 9, at 2:30 in HU 110 Dr. Potash-Suhr was raised and educated in Germany, as well .as Switzerland and the United State,s. She holds a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in Urbana- Champaign on Heinrich Heine and now resides in Chicago. Her work is known to German audiences through poetry readings and radio programs. A volume of her poetry will be published this year. her first novel, Die Neue, just .completed, and a number ofshort stories are awaiting publication . Dr. Potash-Suhr's .reading, in Ger·man, is part of Professor Kellenter's 20th Century German Literature class and will be followed by a discussion of the poetry .read. The visit is made possible through an lEFGrant. I I '· .

Page 22 ''Why, thank you .... Thank you very much!\ DON'T DESPAIR A;p;lCJ.t~Oo.:3 ava1:a::-ie J.t :.::~ Cn:o::1. C..Jilcge :~:a=.~:l .. ~:i Cf:·~ce :-!:1a F!OGl'. Becke: H.~. .. : • J':'G-3~~3 ..... .. CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 SENIORS Thought about speaking at Commencement? If you are interested in speaking, subn1it a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY,. MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone nun1bers. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be notified about an audition. Re~emte~ :o re:::Dply fer financic:l aid 's..:!lo!l:shi?• Joan • work st\..ldyi BY APRIL 15TH Ludlow House More fun than you th ught you could have in a residence hall!! Ludlow House Appfications available @ x6830, x6820, or through any member .. Located in Webster 1st stop by anytime Applications due March 9 The Department of Modem Languages invites you to A POETRY READING by GEERTJE POTASH~ SUHR on Friday, March 9, at 2:30 inHU 110 Dr. Potash-Suhr was raised and educated in Germany, as well as Switzerland and the United States. She holds a Ph.D. from the University of Illinois in Urbana- Champaign on Heinrich Heine and now resides in Chicago. Her work is known to German audiences through poetry readings and radio pr.ograms. A volume of her poetry will be published this year. her first novel, Die Neue, just completed, and a number of short stories are awaiting publication. Dr. Potash-Suhr's reading, in German, is part of Professor Kellenter's 20th Century German Literature class and will be followed by a discussion of the poetry read. The visit is made possible through an IEF Grant. ., ! I I 1 .I

CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 Page 23 . \ SPORTS ' Mouthing .off Fehr vs. O'Con,n:or: ContinQed from .page 24 ~Uow a school to exploit more youngsters in order to make more money, etc. But the student-atblete, the individual who, on the whole\ sacrifices his cdllcation for his athletic success, receives nothing. He is left to accept bribe money to throw a game in order to pay his expenses because he does not have time to get a job on top of the many practices and the abundance of school work. • • • large sums of money are. :. present. I am actua:lly Surprised : · that it does not 'nappen more • · often. It is not the job of each . indiv·idual basketbaH coach at •. Enough Is Enough It does not surprise me that point-shaving is a reality in colle~e athletics '''hen such \ . . . . . . I the university to police his • program and make sure .that these things incidents do not By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-chief occur, That job belongs to the :t When I made my winter term schedule last November, I p~rposely scheduled my afternoons free. I thought back to the previous winter, when the beginning of March brought the opening of baseball, and I had to miss NCAA. It is hard enough for men like Jim Valvano to coach , and win games; it makes the j<>b unbearable. to account for every pair of sneakers, every ticket, and every point that is or is not scored. some of the games because they conflicted with my classes. Spring training games may not have the intensity of the World Series, which was stiU fresh in the memory of aU baseball fans, but Clemens versus Clark was not the kind ' of matchup that happened everyday, either. This winter-turning-into- spring, though, the matchup of Fehr versus O'Connor has been featured all too often. Every day, in fact. Even a classic confrontation, if repeated every day, might lose its luster for all but the most devoted of ··fans. Donald Fehr, the player's union chief, and Charles ·O'Connor, the owners' labor ·spokesman, can hardly be considered a classic . confrontation. The fact that Fehr vs. O'Connor has Capt. J.P. Cruise Lines Troy, N.Y. The Capt. J.P. is a modern triple deck paddlewheekr equipped to serve up to 326 people for a luxurious dining experience. Entertainment is provided on each of the two enclosed air conditioned decks where the spacious dance floors are • located for your dancing pleasure. There are three full service bars, one on each deck. The large picturesque windows allow for your viewing pleasure while sailing along. rhur•clay W'kencl Warmup ••• Senior Cla11 Celebration Cruise ••• 2-112 hour cruise Deejay Hot Hors d'oeuvres Open beer bar 200p. min. $26.00 per person precluded Clemens vs. Clark, or for that matter, Hershiser vs. Mattirig.ly, Cone vs. Puckett, Langston vs. Gwynn, Sabcrhagen vs. MitchcH,\ Viola vs.. Sierra, Eckersley vs. Dawson-- there arc dozens more combinations weld like to see-- makes it an even less desirable entity. Spring straining, you see, is not just a time for the players to warm up for the real thing. All of the above matchups, if you hadn't noticed,. pair an American Leaguer against a National counterpart. During the World Series there are usually no more than two or three such showdowns, and so baseball fans, who are always comparing one league against the other, must rely on Grapefruit and Cactus League games· to substantiate their claims. There is also a certain continuity to the baseball year which has been disrupted. The Fall Classic gives way to the Hot Stove League, which leads to the Winter Meetings, which add a few more logs to the fire. By the time the Hot Stove has become but glowing cinders, pitchers and catchers For A repor.t to Florida and Arizona c.amps,_just soon enough to rescue the frostbitten baseball junkie. I love hockey, professional basketball might have the best athletes around, and there may Mt be a more exciting tournament than the basketball that the NCAA & CBS bring us in March, but I'll take baseball over all of them, even if the baseball games don't even COllllt. The owners have accused Fehr of:ptolonging the lockout to satisfy his ego. There may be something to this, because, much as I may hate it, I am forced to listen to and read about Fehr's comments because I am depending on this man to return to me the game I miss S() much. For the record, I think Lhc players should geL as much as they can from the owners. But the two sides are so close now, that Fehr and O'Connor do seem to be conspiring to keep themselves in the limelight. The players are complaining, and the fans are-being deprived. Maybe I should have taken that afternoon class after all. Special Day Plan Something Perfect Aboard The AU New Capt. J.P. 2 hour cruise Deejay *P~per I.D. Required Full course PRIME Rm dinner 75p. min. $26.00 per person Grab your opportunity to CRUISE!!! The CAPT. J .. P. CRUISE LINES would like to extend a \-burst of ,excitement\ to all area students and faculty. !F THERE ISN'T A CRUISE ABOVE THAT EXCITES YOU, Weclnetclay Formal A'rangementa ••• 2-1/2 hour cruise Full course PRIME Rill dinner Entertainment (your choice) lOOp. min. $26.00 per person PLEASE CALL (518) 270-1'901, and allow yourself some EXcitement! .. ' ·Capt. J.P. Cruise Lines, 278 River St., Troy 12180 ~

\ I i \ I 1 rl 11 tl ., I 'I 1 CONCORDIENSIS, March 8, 1990 Page 23 <1Innrorbitttsis SPORTS Mouthing Oft ••• Fehr vsB O'Connor: Continued from page 24 allow a school tc c:.xploit more youngsters in order to make mor.e money, etc. But the student-athlete, the individual who, on the wh0ole,. sacrifices his education for :his athletic success, receives nothing. He is left to accept bribe money to throw a game in o rrder to pay his c:.xpcnses because he does not have time to get a job on top oF the many practices and the abundance 0fscllool work. large sums of money are present. I am actually surprised that it docs not happen more often. It is not the job of each individual basketball coach at the university to police his program and make sure that these things incidents do not occur. That job belongs to the NCAA. lL is hard enough for men like Jim Valvano to coach and win games; it makes the job unbearable to account for every pair of sneakers, every ticket, and every point that is or is not scored. Enough Is Enough It d()CS not swprise me that point-shaving is a. reality in college athletics ·when s11ch By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-cb.Ief Intercollegiate Golf Team ,; When I made my winter term schedule last November, I purposely scheduled my afternoons free. I thought back to the previous winter, when the beginning of March brought the opening of baseball, and I llad to mi:ss some of the games because they conflicted with my classes. Spring training games may not have the intensity of Lhe World Series, which was still fresh in the memory of all baseball fans, but Clemens versus Clark was n()t the kind of ma~chup that happened everyday, either. organ:ia:ationa,l meeting ,; This winter-tuming-into- spring, though, the matchup of Fehr versus O'Connor has been featured all too often. Every day, in fact. Even a classic confrontation, if repeated every day, might lose its luster for all but the most devoted of fans. Donald Fchr, tlle player's union chief, and Charles Date: fime: Place: March 12, 1990 {MQnday) 4:'00 P~m. · ··· · · · · Al.umni Gymt 5ih floor classroom , , Anyone interested in playing , intercollegiate golf tllis spring must ·O'Connor, the owners' labor spokesman, can hardly be considered a classic confrontation. The fact that Fehr vs. O'Con11or has attend 11tis meeting or contact ~ ~· Coach Scanlon x6286 ,; Capt. J.P. Cruise Lines Troy, N.Y. The Capt. J.P. is a modern triple deck paddlewheeler equipped to serve up to 326 people for a luxurious dining e.xperience. Entertainment is provided on each of the two enclosed air conditioned decks where tlze spacious dance floors are located for your dancing pleasure. There are threefu/l service bars, one on each deck. The large picturesque windows allow for JiYUr viewing pleasure while sailing along. Thur1clay W'kencl Warmup ••• Senior Class Celebration Cruise ••• 2-1/2 hour cruise Deejay Hot Hors d'oeuvres Open beer bar 200p. min. $26.00 per person precluded Clemens vs. Clark, or for that matter, Hershiser vs. Mattingly, Cone vs. Puckett, Langston vs. Gwynn, Saberhagen vs. Mitchell, Viola vs. Sierra, Eckersley vs. Dawson-- there are dozens more combinations we'd like to see-- makes it an even less desirable entity. Spring straining, you see, is not jast a time for the players to warm up for the real thing. All of the above matchups, if you hadn't noticed, pair an American Leaguer against a National counterpart. During the World Series there arc usually no more than two or three such showdowns, and so baseball fans, who arc always comparing one league against the other, must rely on Grapefruit and Cactus League games to substantiate their claims. There is also a certain continuity to the baseball year which has been disrupted. The Fall Classic gives way to the Hot Stove League, which leads to the Winter Meetings, which add a few more logs to the fire. By the time the Hot Stove has become but glowing cinders, pitchers and catchers For A report to Florida and Arizona camps, just soon enough to rescue the frostbitten baseball junkie. I love hockey. professional basketball might have the best athletes aroulld, and there may not be a more exciting tournament tllan the basketball that the NCAA & CBS bring us in March, but I'll take baseball over all of them, even if the baseball games don't even count. The owners have accused Fchr of prolonging the lockout to satisfy his ego. There may be something to this, because, much as l may hate it, I am forced to listen to and read about Fehr's comments because I am depending on this man to return to me the game I miss so much. For the record, I think th~ players should get as much as they can from the owners. But the two sides are so close now, that Fchr alld O'Connor do seem to be conspiring to keep themselves in the limelight. The players arc complaining, and the fans arc- being deprivcJ. Maybe I sh()u[d have taken that afternoon class after all. Special Day Plan Somethi119. · Perfect Aboard The All New Capt. J.P. 2 hour cruise Deejay *Proper I.D. Required Full course PRIME Rlli dinner 75p. min. $26.00 per person Grab your opportunity to CRUISE ! ! ! The CAPT. J.P. CRUISE LINES would like to extend a \b11rst of excitement\ to all area students an <I faculty. IF THERE ISN'T A CRUISE ABOVE THAT EXCITES YOU, Wedneaday Formal Arrangements ••• 2-1/2 hour cruise Full course PRIME Rill dinner Entertainment (your choice) lOOp. min. $26.00 per person PLEASE CALL (518) 270-1901, and allow yourself some EXcitement! Capt. J.P. Cruise Lines, 278 River St., Troy 12180 .....

- .... ''\ g 0 I 0.. w ...! u:: The Men's and Women's Indoor Track season has ended, and both squads are gearir~g up for the warm weather and outdoor spring season. The Men's Lacro$se · Team held their Urst scrimmag-e this past weekend and look for-ward to a very successful season. Men's Track Ends Indoor Season at States By GREG BARRETT This past weekend, the Men's Track Team traveled to Colgate, in Hamilton, NY to compete in the New York State Track Meet. The competition was fierce with two state records being set in the 4x400m relay an.d the high jump. The Union squad had an imprc:>sive weekend racking up many personal records and several seasonal bests. Frc~hman Matt Decker made it to Lh~ Semifinals in tnc 55m dash with a time of 6.73s, and just 111issed qualifying for the finals. Senior Chip S i1 ver scored a PR in the 55m hurdles with a time of 8.21s. He later came back and cleared L87m in the high jump. The 2()0tn saw Bill Taylor finishing in 23.7ls-- his best ever. RoLinding out the sprints was Will Allen who set and broke his o,•,:n record Lwjce in one day! Alkn ran the 400m progressively faster each time. Be qualified for the semi's in the open and later anchored the 4x400m running his fastest time ever-- 5l.95s! Weightman Shawn Mowry tossed the 35 lb. weight 12.23m resetting his PR. Senior Jeff Simkins went to the semi's in the 500m · crossing the line in 1:07.89. Finishing up the open events was Bob Lindyberg who had a seasonal best in the SOOm-- 2:03.5. Saturday, Union's 4x400m relay team won their heat and captured sixth place. Taylor,Simkins, Silver and Allen (who all set PRs in this me~) sheared several seconds- off their previous time knocking out a 3:28.65. SUNY Albany ran a 3: 19.4 in this race, setting a new NY State record. Albany's relay team also won the Millrose Games recently held at Madison Square Garden in the New York City. The distance Medley relay, which consisted of an 800m, a 400m, a 1200m, and a 1600m, was run by Greg Barrett, Rich Zembek, Ed Dorsey and Doug Martocci. Barrett, Zembek, and Dorsey all set their seasonal bests, finishing with a combined time of 11:36.7. Overall, the team had an impresssive season with most of the squad peaking at_l)tates. This week offers a much deserved rest, but soon the Dutchmen will be gearing up for the spring season. They hope to carry the positive momentum of a successful indoor season into the outdoor season. Anyone interested in writing any kind of sports articles this spring must contact Andy at Box 212 or call 381-4651 or Mark at Box 2281 or call 393- 4538m Yo.ur articles w·iJI not be printed unless we hear from you by March 15. March 8, 1990 Mouthing Off Death and Life ,in_ C,o.flege Bas.ketbaU By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor It is amazing how quickly life can be put intO- perspective. Its proper perspective, that is. Imagine one moment you are on top of the world, turning back upcourt after forcefully dunking the basketball on a beautifully executed alley-oop. Seconds later, the life has been taken from your picture-perfect athlete's body and you become a memory to those whose lives you have touched. Hank Gathers touched many lives. His deatll this past Sunday night of aiJparent heart failure can only be seen as a tragedy. He was a young man of great character who was loved by many. All you have to see is the fallout from this terrible event to witness the positive effect he had on so many people's lives. Hank Gathers' legacy remains after his death, and it will until that infernal question is answered: WHY? Why was a genuine and talented person like this stripped of his life at the age of 23? Wby was he not given the opportunity to flourish and grow and enjoy the life that so many .of us take for . granted? Was there nothing that could have been done to prevent this great loss? We need not try and answer these questions. for the solutions cannot be found. We need only to look: at Hank Gathers and exalt llis life. He was a brilliant basketball player. Last year,. his junior year at Loyola-Marymount University, Gatners became only the second player in the National Collegiate Athletic Association's hist()ry to lead Division I in. scoring (32. 7)' and rebounding (13.7). This season, he was sixth in scoring and one of the leaders in rebounding. He was a sure-shot first round draft j)ick in this year's National .Basketball Association collegiate entry draft. He would have been a millionaire many times- over in six months. He would have been ... he would have been ... We all 'could nave been' until we realized hew fleeting our successes really are. Only those precious few who can sustain their greatness become 'great' in the sports fan's eyes. Gathers was this type of player, Lhis type of man. Throughout his career at LMU and for the few moments he led his team again.st Portland in the semi-finals of tile West Coast Conference's postseason tournament, he displayed his ability, his maturity, his greatness, only to b.ave it taken away by forces beyond the control of mankind. Jim Valvano is also under fire from forces w.bich he cannot control. The beleaguered head basketball coach of North Carolina State University has been in the hot sea,t for months. His Wolfpack was placed on NCAA probati9n for rules violations which, though he took the responsibility for. he apparently knew nothing abo11t. Several playerr; 'misused' their CQmplimentary game tickets jllld basketball sneakers, selling both for a profit, And in the past week, a new set of allegations against Valvano and his program have hit the medic,\ and have sent shockwaves throughout the sportsworld-allegations of point-shaving. Whether or not these reports of point-shaving are proved, and regardless of indictments and verdicts, the . underlying problem in big-time· college athleti~s will remain. Money. There is too much of it involved, and the people who earn it, who really earn it, receive nothing. The athietes receive an 'education' for their services rendered on the cow:ts and fields. But what do they really get? Not much, I am afraid. If CBS wants to pay tile NCAA $1 billion (yes, that's a b, not an m) for the right to televise the basketball tournament for the ·next four seasons, then let them do it. But the money goes to the wrong place. It goes back into athletic programs which will Continued on page 23 7 Women Swimmers Attend Nationals By STEPHANIE FRAY and JAIMIE LIPSHER The Women's Swim Team has become welllmown around campus. On Wednesday March 7, 1990, seven of its members represented U nic>n College at the National Swim Meet held at Williams College in Williamstown. Massachusetts. We woutd like t() commend the following seven women fat their efforts: Senior Captain Kathy Kavaney. Sophomores Amy O'Nei-ll, Jen Joyce, Ann Glicksman, Jean11e Cutrone, i<erstin Dorse, and Freshman Sharon Gatt. Union's Swim Team has been represented at Nationals in the past; this year, tliree more swimmers participated than last. As stated by one member of the team prior to their departure, \I am optimistic tha.t we will do well, especially in the relays. It has been a long season and we are tired but, in the past, this feeling has only made us stronger and more determined to win.\ As well, congratulations should be extended to Coach Susan Bassett for a wi11ning season overall, with both the men's and women's teams.

0 Q .... il. LU :::! LJ.. I 0 c 1- 0 .I 0.. U:J -' u: Tile Men's and Women's Indoor Track season has ended, a11d both squads are gearing up .for the warm weather and outdoor spring season. The Men's Lacrosse Team held their first scrimmage this past weekend and looll= 1orward to a very successful season. Men's Track Ends .Indoor Season at States By GREG BARRETT Tllis pa:-.t weekend, the Men's Track Team traveled to Colgate, in Hamilton, N.Y to compete in the New York State Track Meet. The competition was fierce with two state rccorlb bdng set in the h4D0m relay and the high jump. The Lnion squad had an impr~\'si ve weekend racking up many personal records and scv..: raJ seasonal bests. Fr..:~hman \fatt Decker made it to tt1c Scm ifinals in the 55m d:.1sh \\ i th a time of 6.73s, and just n•i~scd qualifying for the finab. Scnwr Chip Silver scor..-:d a PR in the 55m hurdles with a time of 8.21s. He later came luck and cleared 1.87m in the hi:;h jump. The 200m saw Bill L1ylor finishing in 23.71 s-- his best ever. Rollnlling out the sprints was Will Allen who set and broke his o~\ n record twice in one day! A ll,·n ran the 400m progr~~:-.ivcly faster each time. He qualified for the semi's in the open ami later anchored the 4x.4(1(Jm running his fastest time ever-- 51.95s! Weightman Sha v. n ~owry tossed the 35 lb. v..·cight 12.23m resetting his PR. Senior Jeff Simkins wc11l tl) the semi's in the 500m crossing the line in 1:07.89. Finishing up the open events was Bub Lindyberg who had a seasonal best in the 800m-- 2:03.5. Saturday, Union's 4.x400m relay t~am won their heat and captured sixth place. Taylor .Simkins, Silver and Allen (who all set PRs in this race) :-.hearcd several seconds off their previous time knocking out a ):28.65. SUNY Albany ran a 3:19.4 in this race, setting .a new NY State record. Albany's relay team also won the Millrose Games recent! y held at Madison Square Garden in the New York City. The distance Medley relay, which consisted of an 800m, a 400m, a 1200m, and a 1600m, was rua by Greg Barrett, Rich Zembek, Ed Dorsey and Doug Martocci. Barrett, Zembek, anJ Dorsey all set their seasonal bests, finishing with a combined time of 11:36.7. Overall, the team had an impresssive season with mo.st of the s.quad peaking at States. This week offers a much deserved rest, but soon the Dutchmen will be gearing up for the spring season. They hope to carry the positive momclltum of a successful indoor season into the outdoor season. Anyone interested in writing any kind of sports articles this spring must contact Andy at Box 212 or call 381-4651 or Mark at Box 2281 or call 393- 4538. Your articles will not be printed unless we hear from you by March 15. March 8, 1990 Mouthing Off Death and Life in College Basketball By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor It is amazing how quickly life can be put into perspective. Its proper perspective, that is. Imagine one moment you are on top of the world, turning back upcourt after forcefully dunking the basketball on a beautifully executed alley-oop. Seconds later, the life has been taken from your picture-perfect athlete's body and you become a memory to those whose lives you have touched. Hank Gathers touched many lives. His death this past Sunday night of apparent heart failure can only be seen as a tragedy. He was a young man of great character who was loved by many. All you have to see is the fallout from this terrible event to witness the positive effect he had on so many people's lives. Hank Gathers' legacy remains after his death, and it will until that infernal question is answered: WHY? Why was a genuine and talented person like this stripped of his life at the age of 23? Why was he not given the opportunity to flourish and grow and enjoy the life that so many of us take for granted? Was there nothing !.hat could have been done to prevent this great loss? We need not try and answer these questions, for the solutions cannot be found. We need only t() look at Hank Gathers and exalt his life. He was a brilliant basketball player. Last year, his junior year at Loyola-Marymount University, Gathers became only the secO!nd player in the National CGilegiate Athletic Association's history to lead Division I in scoring (32.7) and reboundjng (13.1). This season, he w!ls sixth in scoring and one of the leaders in rebounding. lle was a sure-shot first round d.Jaft pick in this year's National Basketball Association collegiate entry draft. He would have been a millionaire many times over in six months. He would have been ... he wotLld have been ... We all 'could have been' until we realLzed how fleeting our successes really are. Only those preciows few who can sustain their greatness become 'great' in the sports fan's eyes. Gathers wa:s this type of player, this type of man. Throughout h..is career at LMU and for the few moments he led his team against Portland in the semi-fin:als of the West Coast Confer-ence's postseason tournament, he displayed his ability, his maturity, his greatness, ouDy to have it taken away by fol'ces beyond the control of mamkind. Jim Val va;no is also under fire from fl()rces which he cannot control The beleaguered head basketball coach of North Carolina State University has been in the hot seat for months. His Wolfpack was placed on NCAA probation for rules violations which, !.hough he took the responsibility for, he apparently knew nothing about. Several players 'misused' their complimentary game tickets and basketball sneakers, selling bol.h for a profit. And in the past week, a new set of allegations against Valvano and his program have hit the media and have sent shockwaves throughout the sportsworld-allegations of point-shaving. Whether or not these reports of point-shaving are proved, and regardless of indictments and verdicts, the underlying problem in big-time college athletks will remain. Money. There is too much of it involved, and the people who earn it, who really earn it, receive nothing. The athi.etes receive an 'education' for their services rendered on the courts and fields. But what do they really get? Not much, I am afraid. If CBS wants to pay the NCAA $1 billion (yes, that's a b, not an m) for the right to televise the basketball tournament for the next four seasons, then let them do it. But the money goes to the wrong place. It goes back into athletic programs which will Continued on page 23 7 Women Swimmers Attend Nationals By STEPHANIE FRAY and JAIMIE LIPSHER The Women's Swim Team has become well known around campus. On Wednesday March 7, 1990, seven of its member:s represented Union College at the National Swim Meet held at Williams College i11 Williamstown, Massachusetts. We would like to commend the following S(!vcn women for their efforts: Senior Captain Kathy Kavamey, Sophomores Amy O'Neill, Jen Joyce, Ann Glicksman, Jeanne Cutrone, Kerstin Dorse, and Freshman Sharon Gatt. Union's Swim Team has been rcpresellted at Nationals in the past; this year, three more swimmers ]Jarticipated than last. As stated by one member of the team prior to their departure, \I am optimistic that we will do well, especially in the relays. It has been a long season and we are tired but, in the past, this feeling has only made us stronger and more determined to win.\ As well, congratulations should be extended to Coach Susan Basseu for a winning season overall, wilh both the men's and women's teams.

