! !' I'' Vol. CXIX, No~ 9 Record Setting ~Se.· a:son For . . Dutchmen Football Gridders Rebound from Two .500 Seasons to Appear in Stagg Bowl By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor~ in-Chief here is a brief documentation of the post-season. After a first round victory When the season started, the . over Cortland State, the Union College football team Dutchmen hosted Montclair was not e}Cpected to finish State on November 25. much higher than .500. It Montclair had an offensive line certainly was not expected to that averaged 270 pounds, but finish the season contending they were no match for the for the national championship- quicker and more aggressive before a na,tionwide television Dutchmen. The defense that audience. had dominated throughout the But after a 17-7 loss to regular season knew from the , Dayton on December 9 in the first play that Montclair would Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl for not be able to move the ball the. Division III national against them. the offense did championship, it is remarkab~e its part as well, and Union . • to consider the cameawaywitha45-6victqry. accomplishments of the 1989 Next on the agenda was a Dutchmen sq:uad. trip to Ferrum (Va.). Ferrum College records were set for · proved to be a more worthy consecutive wins (15), wins in . force as the Dutchmen were a season (13), most wins in an forced to rally for four fourth undefeated regular season (10), quarter touchdowns to pull out as well as for points scored- a 37-21 win and .a trip to the (432), forced turnovers (53), championship gam~ at Phenix and fumbles recovered (25). All City, Alabama. of this came on the heels of The special teams. Union's two consecutive .500 seasons Achilles heel all season that were marked by sloppy if long, came back to finally cost sometimes dominating play; the- Dutchmen. Dayton used a It is a bit after the fact, but blocked punt (which set up a for the benefit of those who Continued on page 22 may not have followed the liege 1877 York New Alcohol Policy Forces Social Changes By JAY FREELAND News Editor Last week, Dean of Students Fr«l Alford called a meeting of all the fraternity and sorority pr~sidents at Union College and announced the adoption of a new social policy effective immediately. The new policy works in conjunction with stiffer alcohol laws which were passed in New York State beginning January I. team throughout the playoffs while school was on break:, Sigma Chi Faces Three-Week Probation The announcement, taking some of the presidents by surprise, brings three main clauses to the attention of Union College students. The first, and primary clause, states that only persons who are twenty-one years of age may register a social function at the College. The second and third Continued on page 4 By ELlSE FOODY News Editor The detrimental consequences · of campus fraternities having unregistered parties have recently materialized for one Greek organiz;ation in particular. Following an unregistered Friday night party on January • 5, the Sigma Chi Fraternity was placed on social probation for a period of approximately three weeks. The fmternity began their probationary period Wednesday, January 10. It was reported that during the party the entrance to the fraternity was left unattended, Dean of Students Fred Alford approached tile house Saturday morning and found .large amounts of garbage (primarily · cups) scattered inside and outside the house. Because having unregistered parties is a violation ·of the · College's social policy. the Conduct Committee of the · InterFraternity Council voted to place Sigma Chi on • probation. Arthur Hudson, President of IFC, stated that the measur-es taken against Sigma Chi may serve as a reminder to other fraternities on the necessity of tightening up their individual party procedures. Photo of the Week: Schenectady winter. January 18, 1990 Student Attack Sparks Concern By MIKE SILUERSTEIN For a pleasant change from recent years, this past · December break was relatively · quiet in the crime department. .. There were no reports of theft and only minor skirmishes occurred on campus. This was probably due to extra patrols · around the grounds, the fact . that many students were on campus during Lhe first couple weekends of the break, and designated rooms in each fraternity and sor·. \'ity house where students opted to place their valuables. Some of the incidents which the extra patrols encountered include an attempted break-in by an Ellis Hospital mental health ward outpatient at Psi Upsilon, three people attempting to enter Chi Psi, one of which was apprehended after a chase and charged with attempted larceny. Two people who were trying to break into Richmond were taken into custody after a brief scuffle with security officers. The only malfunction · rcgatding equipment occurred on New Year's day in Fox where a pipe had burst and flooded parts of the dorm. At the beginning of this term, however, a more serious incident occurred. Late at night, Wednesday, January 3, a sophomore female was attacked ne~r the Nott Memorial. Walking alone towards North Donn, the girl was pulled to the ground, and her assailant overtook and attempted to Continued on page 3 btnttlte (?) of a i ..

liege 1877 Vol. CXIX,. No. 9 Schenectady, New York Record Setting Sea:son For Dutchmen Foo~tball Gridders Rebound from Two .500 Seasons to Appear in Stagg Bowl By ANDREW SEEWALD Ed itBr-in- Chief When the. season started, the Union College football team was not e;x pected to fin ish much higher than .500. It certainly was not expected to finish the season contending for the national championship before a nationwide television audience. But after a 17-7 loss to Dayton on December 9 in the Amos Alonzo Stagg Bowl for the Division III national champiQnsh.ip, it is remarkable to consider the accomplishments of the 1989 Dutchmen squad. Cdlege records were set for consecutive. wins (15), wins in a seas{)n (13), most wins in an undefeated regular season (10), as well as for points scored (432), forced turnovers (53), and fumbles recovered (25). All of this came on the heels of two consecutive .500 seasons that were marked by sloppy if sometimes dominating play. here is a brief documentation of the post-season. After a first round victory over Cortland State, the Dutchmen hosted Montclair State on November 25. Montclair had an offensive line that averaged 270 pounds, but they were no match for the quicker and more aggressive Dutchmen. The defense that had dominated throughout the reguhtl' season knew from the first play that Montclair would not be able to move the ball against them. The offense did its part as well, and Union came away with a 45-6 victory. Next on the agenda was a trip to Ferrum (Va.). Ferrum proved to be a more worthy force as the Dutchmen were forced to rally for four fourth quarter touchdowns to pull out a 37-21 win and .a trip to the championship game at Phenix City, Alabama. The special teams, Union's Achilles heel all season long, came back to finally cost the Dutchmen. Dayton used a blocked punt (which set up a Continued on page 22 J~, haw$ and Co!tege Polloi~s. d; til and $tlbstan:tial off:(!'ring of. n· .,ln\<'&l altiobo•ijc b&vetagies and ·food. e~ Cleanin~rupthe lnrloorfacHlty and any refuse around th$ o~isid:e arsa$i: b)t :1 t~oo a~m. fott()w~ng thl1f event 1 .· • No student organiiatlon, club or society may U$$ funds .. eolle¢ted from members, Student Forum, alumni, etc. for . · pur<lhasing or p;rovlding alcohoL No member may coordinate • .. · ttl$ purchasing or providing of alcohol in the name of or on . ·behalf of the orgarlizatioo. Only individuals over 21 may · s,ponsO\r an event at wlhich alcohol is ssrved. · 3. Students or sttJdent organizations ars not permitted to . arrange for alcohol to be delivered by outsi<le vendors or , distributors to the campus. · 4. Registered p-rivate events may take place em Friday and Saturday nights <Jnly between the hours of 4 pm and 2 am. No . such events may iake place after the 9th week of any , .academic term. 5. All' outdoor even1s with five or recorded music may take · p!aoa ody betwaen 4 pm and 7 pm on Friday and between 1 pm . , on ·.. · . ·'· Term Ol)ly). Only one such . . . par aa.y,. . New Alcohol Policy Forces Social Changes By JAY FREELAND News Edit()l' Last week, Dean of Students Fred Alford called a meeting of all the fraternity and sorority presidents at Union College and announced the adoption of a new social policy effective immediately. The new policy works in conjunction with stiffer alcohol laws which were passed in New York State beginning January 1. It is a bit after the fact, but for the3 beocfit of those who may 1101 have followed the team thromghout the playoffs while school was on break, Sigma Chi Faces Three-Week Probation The announcement, taking some of the presidents by surprise, brings three main clauses to tile attention of Union College students. The first, and primary clause, states that only persons who are twenty-one years of age may register a social function at the Co11cge. The second and third Continued on page 4 ..,Israeli, Professor's Researett.· pa.ge 14 ·Pro:Ctor's Too· at, the Nott .. .pa3e tj··. By ELISE FOODY News Editor The detrimental consequences of campus fraternities having unregistered parties have recently materialized for one Greek organization in particular. Following an unregistered Friday night party on January 5, the Sigma Chi Fraternity was placed on social probation for a period of approximately three weeks. The fraternity began their probationary period Wednesday, January 10. Dean of Students Fred Alford approached the hot1sc Saturday morning and fou111d large amounts of garbage (primarily cups) scattered inside and outside the house. January 18, 1990 Student Attack Sparks Concern 8y MIKE Sl LHERSTEIN For a pkasant change frolll recent years. this past December break wa-.: rcl;l!iwly quiet in the crime c.kpartmcnt. There were no rL·porb of thl'ft and only minor skirrnish,·s occurred on campus. Th 1 s wa' prohahly due to extra patrols around the grounds, th,· fact that many students \\'t'fl' on campus during the firstunrpk weekends of the hreak. and designated rooms in each fraternity and 'or ·ity housL' where students optl'd to place their valuables. Some of the incidenL\ which the extra patrols encountered include an attempted break-in by an Ellis Hospital mental health ward outpatient at Psi Upsilon, three people attempting to enter Chi Psi, one of which was apprehended after a chase and charged with attempted larceny. Two people who were trying to break into Richmond were taken into custody after a hrid scuffle with security officws. The only malfunrtion regarding equipment ocl'urr,·d on New Year's day in rox where a pipe had huro.;t and flooded parts of the dorm. At the heginning of this term. however, a more serious incident occurred. Late at nig,ht, Wednesday, January ::;, a sophomore female wa<; attacked ncar the Nott Memorial. Walking alone towards North Dorm, the girl was pulled to the ground, and her assailant overtook and attempted to Continued on page 3 It was reported that during the party the entrance to the fraternity was left unattended. Because having unFegistered parties is a vioiati()n of the College·s social policy, the Conduct Committee of the InterFraternity Coun.cil voted to place Sigma Chi on probation. Arth1tr Hudson, President of IFC, stated that the measures taken against Sigma Chi may serve as a reminder to other fraternities on the necessity of tigh.tening up their individual party procedures. Photo of th• We•k: Enjoying th• beneflta (?) of a Schenectady winter.

Page Z CQNCORDIEJVSIS, .)f!.n,p.arJ~, 1~ 1 .!9!!0 NEW'S ANAL YSlS By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Throughout his tenure as the Surgeon General of the United States, C. Everett Koop became synonymous with outspoken ideas on such politically devestating views such as smoking and AIDS, thus establishing his office as one of paramount :importance, where in the past it often was regarded as a political favor repaid. Over December break, Koop spoke at Adelphi University. and echoed much of \Take Charge Of Your Health~~ Koops Epithet? the same style whicll madehim such great friends with .the folks at RJ Reynolds. As usual, though, Koop was right on track in emphasizing (to a largely senior citizen audience) that we all .should \Take charge of (our) health\ before it was too late-- words wh.ich should not be limited to the elders of our co11ntry. Dr. Koop patronized. first the importance of maintaining a Stable lifestyle, which includes proper exercise (as te each individual's ability) and a realistic diet. Exercise is successful through habit, and habits are developed in cQllege, for many people. By establishing good athletic and eating habits now, health problems in the future will be drastically reduced. (One habit Koop 'emhatically supported was, very simply. \wear a sensible pair of shoes.\) Problems such as hypertension and cholesterol can easily be reduced by such practices, not to mention flat feet. The former surgeon general then went on to speak of the dangers of excessive smoking Supreme Court Supresses Ill-egal Evidence Challenge Court allowed the evidence to be submitted and a higher court of appeals overturned the decision. The most striking part of the decision by the Court was that Justice White was the pivotal vote to uphold the exlusionary rule. The vote, 5-4, sided, Justices Brennan, Marshall, Blackmun, Stevens and White against Chief Justice Rehnquist and Justices O'Connor~ Scalia and Kennedy: The majority By BRAD MONDSCHEIN Gene.ral Manager The Supreme Court last week upheld the long standing exclusionary rule protecting suspects from illegally obtained evidence. The decision, James v. Illinois, involved prosecutors using evidence which was procured unlawfully against the defendant. The rule was being challenged due to the nature of the use of the evidence. Currently, the prosecution is able to use illegally obtained evidence only to contradict a defendant's direct testimony. In James v. Illinois, lhe prosecutor i:llegally obtained testimony to contradict a defense witness, who was testifying on behalf of the defendant. The witness testified that the suspect bad brown curly hair before the day of the murder. The defendant told the police in an illegal confession that he dyed his hair red before the murder, and then dyed it back to brown in his mother's salon. The Illinois District He (Board) stated that there is a difference in the ideology of \judicial conservatism and SIOcio- economic conservatism.\ opinion was written by Justice Brennan. He stated that \arriving at the tmth is important\ but ''the occasional suppression of illegally ob- tained yet provacative evidence and drinking. These abuses are easily seen on the college level and tliQugh impossible to stop (and even stupider to try to legislate against), Koop's emphasis was on moderation, in regard to alcohol. Despite this allowance, to Koop, 'hard' liquor was a sure road :to an early dea~. Smoking to Koop was a wbole different argument. The influence of the tobacco industry on our .society has led to the .astonishing fact that \one thousand funerals a day result from smoking related sickness (i.e. cancer, heart One habit Koop · emphatically supported was very simply, \wear a Sensible .pair ·Of shoes.\ Problems sucb as hypertension and cholesterol can easily be reduced by such at !east fo~ for· thought. And · remember, many -lifelong habits are formed in college. Koop's advice led up to an analysis ()f the health care system in the United S.tates. Dr. Kocp did feel th!lt tbe system nee<led some kind of refonn, but many problems of it stem frolll many Americans' reliance on \the magic of medicine tc come through,'' while never taking measures to prevent their ills in the first place. By taldng charge, most Americans would not be as reliant on tile system, and more people would live t<:> understand that, '\Aging is not. and shouldn't be, a disease.\ If Americans thought this way, perhaps hea:lth care would reach the people who really need it. For us, this message could be interpreted as, \Don't wait until after college to clean ourselves up.\ We .an surely · desire t<> look back at our days ----------- here with wonderful disease, emphysema, etc.Y Of memories, and no regrets. By course, nothing factually has \taking cbMge of your health,\ practices, not to mention flat feet. linked smoking to these the memo 11 ies should last .a illnesses, but the statistics are long time. · , has long been considered a necessary cost of preserving overriding constitutional values.\ He stated further that the Illinois' approach will \significantly weaken the exclusionary rule's deterrent effect on police misconduct.\ The decision to uphold th.e exclusionary was a surprisedu~ to Justice White's opinion in the U.S. v. Leon in which he upheld the right of police to use evidence that was obtained in good faith. In talking with Professor Board of the Political Science ~Department, the decision of Wbite may not be as big a · surprise. He stated that there is a difference in the ideology of \judicial conservatism and socio-economic conservatism~\ Although Justice White is a socio-economic conservative, he is' a judicial liberal. The past case of U.S. v. Leon is· nota good indicator af White's judicial views. The case was involving the use of evidence wlten the police had warrants that were later found defective .. The 'exclusionary according to Board will\prOtect .the public from the police and the jurors from the lawye;rs. '' Board compared the tJ.S. system to the .European non- jury system. In the European system, th-e judge is the decision maker. Beeaase the judge has legal training, he can discemgood evidence from bad. As well., tb.e decision scores points for the liberal ideology. The decision by White made clear the Court's reluctance to ·become too conservative. The exdusionary rule is a cornerst(}ne of th.e legal system. Without it, the public will be the sufferers of police infringement on their daily lives. - Conservative Students Develop Agenda For the 90's By CHRISTOPHER C. BLANKER (NSNS) In an attempt to regain the momentum they enjoyed on college campuses in the early- and mid-1980s with the Reagan presidency, conserva ti vc student organizations are reassessing their priorities and strategies. On December 1st, 100 conservative student leaders from 45 schools convened in Washington, DC to develop a strategy for a conservative agenda for the 1990s. At the Conservative Leadership Conference, students focused on ideological questions such as abortion, drugs, and foreign policy and discussed campaigning techniques and ways to promote grassroots action. According to many conservative student leaders. the 1980s was a decade of major advances for the conservatives on campus. For instance, in a study of college freshmen conducted by the American Council on Education, 21.8% of college, freshmen identified themselves as \conservative\ or \far right\ in 1988 - an all-time nigh - versus 19.6% in 1987 and 18.3% in 1980. Similarly, most conservative student groups saw a significant increase in their membership, especially in the .early-· and mid~ 1980s. \ However, the coaservative camp is divided as to whether support for the conservative agenda will continue to grow in ihe 1990s and exactly what that agenda should be. Most conservatives look toward the 90s and see a need to review their tactics in light of changing political conditians and world events. \A lot of people see it as necessary to develop new strategies,\ said Uribe. \The right has been losing ground in the last few years.\ Student leaders point to two main reasons why new strategies may be necessary for the '90s. One, they say, is the end of the Reagatl presidency. With the loss of Reagan as chief spokesman and figurehead, students believe new tactics may be required to bring m~mbers to the right. . \In the past, we could sell ourselves with Reagan,\ Uribe says. \Now we have to focus on edLication to cut thiough a lot of the apathy that has been festering in the country over the last year.\ The second· factor · student conservatives point to that calls for a reassessment of approach, is the rapid change in East- West relations and the general perception that the Cold War is over. According to Lodick and Uribe, many students feel that the changes that are occurring in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe signify a major change in the world order. But this is a false perception, say many conservative student leaders. Whatever the consensus may be on changes in the political landscape, there is little consensus among conservative groups concerning an agenda. For example, the College Republicans, led by Chairman Tony Zagota, see a greater continuity between the Reagan and Bush presidency than other conservatives, arid see no need for radical changes. in approac:h. Zagota says that the College · Republicans - by far the larg~st conservative student group with nearly 1,000 chapters - will continue to work on such issues as capital gains taxation. abortion, and funding for the government ofEl Salvador. Sut th.e major issue for the College Republicans will remain voter participation. \We plan to continue to push f<>r voter registration for the 1990 elections,\ Zagota says. \In tbe 1990s the Republicans need to... work on getting blacks and other minorities into the party.\ The Young Americans For .Freedom plan to continue their Pardon Oliver North Program. They also have begun a Right To Work Project in which Y AF chapter members go to local unions to educate members about the recent U.S. Supreme Court decision that forces unions to refund money spent on political candidates and issues to members who wish it. Students, fov America plan to continue their work against mandatory student fees. against abortion and for contra-aid funds. According to many , conservative student leaders, \liberal'\ professors apd _administrators are seeking to impo'Se tlleir own political beliefs 011 st'Qdents through classroom lectures and illfferent fonns of censorship. \Many professors are more into teaching their beliefs than the material,\ Uribe says. The Intercoll~gjate Studies Institute, a censervative organization that promotes a return to a ;, true liberal arts education,\ believes that the 1990s will be marked by student activism on issues like \liberal bias.\ Chris Long, Director of Student PublicaUons for the Institute., believes that fighting \liberal bias\ will be \the hot issue in the 1990s.\ According to L<>ng. \the spark for .student activism in the 1990s will come from liberal administations imposing restrictive policies and biased material.\ .; 'j . •I ' I / .. a Sl tl F i1 v tl i: g q 't I 13 [

~ J l I . i / • Students Urged to Take Stronge.r ~S,afety Precautions Continued from page 1 U11ioll ,provides a.n escort service a!l-d a personal security service, 'wllich students are encouraged to , . utilue when no other means of tra11sportation are available. Eowever, lbe abuse of the es(;orting service often results in hong delays. for those who re~lly need it. A lot of times a lomg clelay will discourage Presidential Search Progressing Courtesy of JOSEPH HINCHEY 'Chairman, Presidential Search Committee assault her. After a struggle the student fled towards North and the attacker did not follow. Fortunately, the girl was not injured. The Schenectady police were called and· conducted a thorough search of the area. An individual who matched tile given description was later ' questioned but released when ·the victim did not wish to , press charges. This incident should be an a1alrning reminder to everybody .not to walk alone at nigllt. pe:o(Jle .from using the service, The members of the Search arud they will end up walking Committee are eager to keep alone_ A quick rernedy for this · tile Union College community JJroblem: If yo11 don't need an i11fonned of the progress being es:cort, leave it for those who made in the search. We plan to actllally do. , • do so by issuing status updates ,... ........ ----~~----------------... periodically. At the same time. ST,UDENT. ESCOB'TS AND TRANSPORTS · tllere are some very sensitive 1. ESCORT SERVICE \ TEELE.PH<>NE :X6386 and confidential aspects of the A student operated escort service is a-vailable between the hours of search such as the names and 8:00p.m. and 1:00 ~.m. Sundays tl'lrough Thursdays and 8:00 p.m. through 3:00a.m'. on Fridays andSatllrday~. This service is designed Qther information about to provide personal .security Wilen a stude.nt .most travel the Campus or n()minees and candidates. It get to their resi~ence when they are otherv~i~e unaccompanied .. It is not would be inappropriate to intended to be a shuttle service •..• if y..<>u can walk orride with others disclose such information please do do there by fteeingthe esCXlrtse!Vice for those who need it. Se advised that due to the volume of. calls for this service there my be Otltside the committee. unavoid~ble delays in providing U1e oescort, your patience and cooperation is requested. The escort may. be discontinued during The overall objective · s.evere· weather .conditions or ottl~r ·campus emergencies as bl' h d b s· 'II B determined by the Director of Securiry and Safety or the Director's esta · IS e Y · 1 · · urns, Appointee. Chairman of the Board of 2. MEDICAL TRANSPORT • TELEPHOf~E .X6911 Trustees, is to have the 17th a. Emergency - At anythinie. president of Union College in b. Doctor's Appontments - Securi.1Y and Safety Officers will place by the end of the transport students to a doctor's .appointment wh~n the student has academic year in June, 1990.· been referred by the Campus Healti'I:Servic~ or lrainer. c; Class Transports - Security ar1d Safety Officers will transport 'Ihe process will be c~ed out students who are temporarily irnrno~ili2~d to andfrom classes. (This in two phases. The first will service is dependentupon accessa:bilit)tlof students to vehicle.) involve seeking out and 3. PERSONAL SECURITY ES~()fllS • recommending several highly Whenever the student escort service is n(lt ih service the Security and qualified prospects for the Safety Department Officers will .esr;oH . students for purposes of 'd 1 personal security. The service isdeSif)neciand intended for personal prest ency to a se ection safety in unusual circumstances at anyinirne; but prtmarily for hours of committee. The second phase <,larkness when a student must trave:ll tt.e Campus or get to their will be for the Selection residence when they are otherwise una<:oornpanied. Committee. chaired by Bill Please note that all escorts and tranSIJ()r!S may be stJbject to delays Bums, 10 select from this pool __ d_u_e_to ..... Pr..,ro•r-ity .. · o_t_r_eq_!J_e_s.,_ts•f-or_,s .. e_rv .. ic_e_<>_r_()_t~-·-r_e_m .. e_rg .. e.ncy_ ..... ____ _.. . the next president. The Search Reported Security Incidents 1/1 to 1/14 1-1 1-2 1-3 1-3 1-3 1-3 1-4 1-4 1-5. 1-5 1-5 1-5 1-6 1-6 i-6 1-6 1-6- 1-6 1-7 l-7 1-7 l-7 l-7 1-7 1-7 1-7 i-7 1-7 1-7 1-7 l-8 1-9 l-9 1-9 1-10 1-lO 1-11 l-11 1-n l-11 1-12 1-12 1-12 1-12 i-13 l-13 l-13 l-13 i-14 1-14 l-14 l-14 LOCATION Fox !iouse Riohillond Main Entrance South College Fox House Edwards House Nott Memoria~ Fraternity Fox House Gym. west Bid~ Davidson Off campus Fraternity Achi.ll·es Rink na.vid'son Rathskellar Phi Delta Theta Fox House West College North College Campus ·Raymond Raymond Dutch Hollow Psychology Nol:t /Seward Lot Achilles Rink Raymond S & E .west ·College Phi Delta Theta west Lot West College Bronner Bronne:t Phi Delta Theta Zeta Beta Tau Humanities. West College 8iol6g.y· Dep.> t Co:t~ege Center Cashier Alpha Delta Phi College Center Richmond Fox House Hickok Davidson Davidson Raymond Library West College t:NCIDENT U7Jautbo:rL:ze.d entry by .student. ·B:roak-il!'l :reported. Suspicious person reported.GOA ·Lobby .pihome vandalized. L i.fe Sa:fe ty equipment missing - covercs. Veh.:i.c:::le '\locking side,.l!dk. S!PD .n-otified 9: 31. I?M. ·Studemt assa11lted., SPD· notifie !,'ire :in dumpster. SFD responde Un~ut~QXLzed room use over Ore roep.or-ted _ Sllspicioll:S person reported. GOA P'er.sp::n :r\'ported on roof., GOA. Stllce::nt injured·, appropriate ,poer-se>nnel. notified. Repori of fight, ·non-s.t:udents ~r.~~r-n\'<l' off campus. Uilll.es .irat>le. GOA. , 'rahdali.Sil'l - broken wind·ow, .\ rntxu~i.o~ alarm caused by s t~<lents pulling, Oil door. Theft f.:r<>lll· room reported.\ Damaged .. [. ife Safety ·equipment. Intox:ieC!ted non-student: found !::td ·floor lounge: AC not if i P robloe~~~c .~rith intoxicated studen !'ight ·Q<>t·,.een non-s.tudents •l>:=ro.kecn up. Adv :ised off e amp. !'ire ~l~m caused by burning ba V'andaJ.iiill'l to west kitchen wind<:r V'andalisll'l report ad_ V'andalis111 to door :reported. Car v<~ruiar.liS!ll reported. ' Pigllt e>n ice, broken up. lfan<la l:Lsrr.~ to west basement wind ·B:10bl<e ~ \i.ndow. Stllqent Locked in room. Locl<smi c al.liiod in. Van¢ia::l;i,slll - brcil<en window .. rifth-w-:ha e·;L covers recovered from ~r~a and lightpost. !>ossil:ll., break-in to. Glass ·Roor \Tndes .ir.a~ le - GOA. ·llndes iral>le - GOA. Shots fir-ed at house,GO~. lfndes it'ab'le in house_ Advised ·e>U ~.anpl:iS. Venda lisrr:t - broken s.to:rm windo Popoo rr> .. popper fire - e:ct ingui lJnCl..os irable repor.ted. Pirein ootside trash can. 'j:::Xt in gaished. l'orgeod Ca::sh: Payment ·requests· atudemt invol.vaa Rec<>>rer:ed missing stude·nt keys outside building. Suspic~ 0 us person. GO~. Un(i<lsoirable inside. GOA. ~token w~ndow third floor. Tel-ephone reported ~tolen. .Jacke,t reported stolen. Broken w:indow, temporarily repa:Lred. Brokeoh ·w;indo'W. Group of kids skateboard in g. G< Non-student left wallet inside a dor=m rcom. Committee's objective is to . make its recommendation to the SelectionCommittee by March 1, 1990. The Search Committee has met several times, and progress to date included the following: Priorities and needs of !he College through the 1990s as Continued on page 4 FACUL TV RESEARCH DEADUNE The subcouncn on Research and Grants is .now soliciting proposals for faculty research and s·cho Ia rs hip activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Butterstein's Office (Si 00- S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is Friday, February i 6, 1990. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund • should be directed to Dean Butterstein. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $80.00 per day. Transpo.rtation costs . sMould also reflect the best . rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have prelin:tinary ap.proval from . the Hum an Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. Stude,nt Death Stuns Union Community By JJ;RIC DUCHSCHERER On July 23, 1989 mere was a. boat accident on Sehtgo Lake in Maine. Three bretllers from Phi Gamma Delta were aboard the craft that was hit. At approximately 2:00· a.m., the boat that they were traveling in was hit by a drunk driver. Gregg Cohen a11d Eric Duchscherer somebowmanaged to escape any physical injury. .Simon Nottidge was not as lucky. He was sitting right in , line witb the path that the · other boat was u:aveling. · Simon was knocked . uncouscious and was taken to · Maine Medical C¥nter with a severe head injury an:d listed in critical conditi()n. He miraculously managed to . survive tile first crucial week, : but despitesurgery l1eremained ·• in a coma. He was later . transferred to North Shore · University Hospital on Long ·• Island and then to tile Helen Hayes Institute for his rehabilitation. At 1:3() a.m. on Wednesday, November 22. 1989, two days before his twentieth birthday, Simon · N()ttidge died as a result of the · injuries he sustain~d in the boat accide11t. Simon was a lot of things to a lot of people. Most of all he was a ~eat friend and always gave of llimself to Gthers. He epitomized the sayillg, \You have to be a friend to bave a friend.\ He was C()nstantly smiling, and his o11tlook on · life was so positive that it seemed to rub off on others, making us laugh. and giving us a positive feeling. His upbeat attitude and nature shllwed that Simon was a person vrho could Simon Nottidge '91 always find some good in even the worst situations. He made his family and friends very proud .of him and he never ceased to further improve their outlook on him. His actions were never selfish and often he would sacrifice himself in order to help someone else, even if it meant a loss :to his own personal desires. Friends are those rare people who ask how we are and then wait to hear the answer. Simon was a true friend. His hands were always stretched out in friendship, never in want. These shining memories of Simon will not die with him, but will instead forever enlighten us and give us a better understanding and outlook towards our own lives. May we forever remember Simon Nottidge. There will be a· campus-wide memorial service on Saturday, February 3, at 7 p.m. in OJd Chapel for Simon. All are welcome to attend and share in this observance ~ith Simon's family, the brothers of Phi Gamma Delta, and everyone else whose 1i ves Simon touched so dearly. It is still possible to apply for: TH:E SOVIET EXCHANGE PROGRAM If you have taken or are taking third year level Russian or speak a language spoken in one of the Soviet Republics (ie: Estonian, Lithuanian, Armenian) and are interested please contact Professor Thomas, Jernakoff, KeHentner or Dean Alford. . ' '

,Questions Raised Over New Social Policy c.,ntinued from page 1 outl~w the delivery of alcohol to 1he campus by outside vendors, and the organized collection of fraternity or sorority funds for alcohol purchases. The greatest concern by those present revolved around the fact that with a twenty-one year old registering a social evemt,. that person becomes liable for any mishaps, not the fraternity or sorority. Other con!CeJns included the fact that the policy was passed without any consultation with fraternity and sorority o-fficers and members. E.qually concerned were the Interfraternity and Panhellenic Councils. At the IFC meeting that same night, IFC officers ami representatives expressed their concern and IFC President Arthur Hudson relayed that an attorney would be consulted on bcllalf of all the fraternities and tha:t the Social Policy Committee of IFC would draw up proposals from suggestions ma([e, during the meeting with A1ford.. These suggestions included having all twenty-one year olds in 1he house responsible and all()wing outside alcohol vemdGrs to visit the campus on! y one day per week in a11 unmarked van. One oth.er suggestion proposed that everyone entering the house sign a waiver holding each in(iividual responsible for his or her actions, rather than the Gree:k house or the twenty-one year ()!d registering the event. Alford was unsure of the legal. authority in those areas. IFC is now in the process of ex:amining proposals for changes to the new policy, and has also consulted an attorney fo~ legal advice. The attorney w1 II be present on January 22 at 7:30 pm in SSOI6 to discuss liabilities and have a qu.cstion and answer session. Alli arc encouraged to attend. f·it·~\·- )\1 ' ' ... ' '•f _. ''l- .f:[\ ,~-·\'''I CONCORDIENSIS, January. iS, i9'9'o' , New College President To Be Named By June Continued from page 3 Friedlander Named Union University Vice Cha.ncellor Courtesy of Public Relations law students at Albany Law School. they have been .identified by a variety of means including the activities of the various committes formed as part ,of the chairman's long-range planning activity have been reviewed. The committee has developed a list of abilities and characteristics which will be appropriate for the next president to possess in order to lead the College into its third century. Various outreach efforts, including advertising, letters to a large number of college presidents, and others, a memorandum to the campus community, .and a letter tO the Alumni of the College have been initiated. The objective of these communications is to broadcast widely the interest of the committee in becoming aware of and receiving nominations or applications. consulting support to a large number of prestigious colleges and URiversities in connection with 300 senior level searches, more than 100 of them at the Morris said that Freidlander Robert L. Freidlander, • \will . evaluate our joint executive vice president fo:r · successes and explore the · academic health sciences and · potential for new, joint provost of Albany Medical : programs.\ William J. Bowen has been engaged by the Sear<ch Committee to assist in the performance of its functions. Mr. Bowen is Vice Chairman of Heidrick and Struggles, Inc., a highly :respected executive search consulting firm. He is in charge of the higher education practice of the firm. In :recent years, Heidrick and Struggles has provided . presidential level. A large number (approaching 1 00) of nominations and applications have already been received. lt is anticipated that this number v,:ill continue to grow. The committee is now in the process of begnning its evaluation of applications and validation of interest on the part of those who have been nominated by others. Following the screening and checking ef backgrounds, it is expected that early in 1990, first round interviews will be started. The objective of having a list of candidates to prsent to the Selection Committee by March 1 is an aggressive one, ' and the committee members are working hard to meet that schedule. Our intention is to distribute further progress reports from time to time during the search process. In between, committee members ·will be pleased to respond to questions within the limits permitted by the confidential nature of some of the information as mentioned above. U/C IBM USERS GROUP MEETING Announcement THURSDAY, JANUARY 25 1990 Noon - 1:00 p.m. HUMANITIES BLDG. RM. 019 }ami Bull - Word Perfect 5.1 Desserts and Beverages provided Centet; became vic,e · Friedlander came to Albany chancellor of Union University . Medical Center in 1962 as a on Jan. 1. resident in obstretrics and Announcement of the gynecology. He served as the appointment was made.by Jolin · medical college's 13th dean S. Morris, president of Union · _from 1980 to 1988. He is a College and chancellor of member of the medical center's Union University. The BoardofDirectorsandhasbeen university is an association of a member of the institutions's independent in.stutituons, . Council for Academic Health including Union College, Services and a board member of Albany Law School, Albany · · the Albany Medical , Center Medical Centet, Albany Foundation. College of PhaTmacy and He has been president of the Dudley Observatory. · Associated Medical School of The university's New York State, chairman of intercollegiate efforts include the Private Free--standing shared management programs, Medical School Deans, .and ·a centered at Union College, and member of the Council of a joint course in ,ethics Deans' Administrative Board of available for medlcal residents the Association of American at Albany medical Center and · Medical Colleges. IE.F DEADLINE . The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Founda~ion in two categories--student-initiated projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday February 16 1990. ' ' Pro~osals for ~tudent-+nitiated research projects must ·have the wn~ten appro~al of a faculty advisor who has agreed to superv1se the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's .office (S-1 00, Science&. Engineering Building) on forms available .there. · Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally in:novative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are'\ also available in the Dean's Office (S1 00). Guidelines wi1h respect to the IEf' asre available in the Dean's Office. !nquiries abqut IEF, the guidelines, or the proposal. deadrme. should be directed to Dean George Butterstem, Assocmte Dean of ·Faculty. When preparing ~u~gets, please remember that per diem rates are normally l1m1ted to $80.00 per day. Transportation costs would also refl~ct th~ best rates available. Students who are planning to do mterv1ews must indicate that. arrangements have already bee.n made. If your research mcludes work with human subjects, then the pr?posal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. ih e,. 5 111 Ahl1t-l~1 PUBLIC 5PEAK!N~ COJ1P£TIT!ON f m a I 5 : feh. ~a 8°~tn U rretdass J)irung Spe.ttk for iH!Z£j: fl!nules oh ct gawJomfy C~v. Q~ok TO ~f'll~R ·. ; (~\ \ )(401 s tiP-- . , s; 1 ~ 11 lAp 1 n t,e £t1Adt11+ Auhvt11~ Off\Ge.. C.C4oS ' . ! I

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 Questions Raised Over New Social Policy Continued from page 1 outlaw the delivery of alcohtol to the campus by outside vendors, and the organized collection of fraternity or sorority funds for alcoll.ol purchases. The greatest concern \hy those present revolved around the fact that with a twenty-()ne year old registering a social event, that person bcco~ncs liable for any mishaps, not the fraternity or sorority. Other concerns included the fact that the policy was passed withoLl t any consultation with fraternity and sorority officers a11d members. Equally concerned were Lhe Interfraternity and Panhellcnic Councils. At the IFC mecti ng that same night, IFC officers and representatives expressed their concern and IFC Prcsidcr1t Arthur Hudson relayed that an attorney would be consulted on behalf of all the fraternities <.lnd that the Social Policy Committee of IFC would dr-'lW up proposals from suggcstinfls made during the meeting wittl Alford. These suggestions incl udcd having all twenty-one year olds in the housE' responsible and allowing outside alcohol vendors lo visit the campLI s only one day per week in an unmarked van. Or:~. c other suggestion proposed tllat everyone entering the house sign a waiver holding each individual responsible for his or her actions, rather than th. c Greek house or the twenty-on.c year old registering the event. Alford was unsure of the h:~gul authority in those areas. IFC is nmv in the process of examining proposals for c hangcs to the new pol icy, -'lnd. l~as also consulted an attorTJcy tor legal advice. The attor11cy \\III bL' pr~'scnl on Januarv ~~ at 7: \0 prn in S SO I(; to \'\'\ll\\ liahilitics and h;.w,· a q nc..;t ion and answer scs~i on. All arc mcoura!-.:'cd to al!L'nd. New College President To Be Named By June Continued f~rom page 3 they have been identified by a variety of means including the activities of the various committes formed as part of the chairman's long-range planning activity have been reviewed. The committee has developed a list of abilities and characteristics which will be appropriate for the next president to possess in order to lead the College into its third century. Various outreach efforts, inch1ding advertising, letters to a large number of college presidents, and others, a memorandum to the campus community, and a letter to the Alumni of the College have been initiated. The objective of these communications is to broadcast widely the interest of the committee in becoming aware of and receiving nominations or applications. William J. Bowen has been engaged by the Search Committee to assist in the performance of its functions. Mr. Bowen is Vice Chairman of Heidrick and Struggles, Inc., a highly respected executive search consulting finn. He is in charge of the higher education practice of the firm. In recent years, Heidrick and Struggles has provided . consulting support to a large number of prestigious colleges and universities in connection with 300 senior level searches, more than 1 00 of them at the presidential level. A large number (approaching 1 00) of nominations and applications have already been received. It is anticipated that this n urn ber will continue to grow. The committee is now in the process of begnning its evaluation of applications and validation of interest on the part of those who have been nominated by others. Following the screening and checking of backgrounds, it is expected that early in 1990, first round interviews will be started. The objective of having a list of candidates to prscflt to the Selection Committee by March I is an aggressive one, and the committee members are working hard to meet that schedule. Our intention is to distribute further progress reports from time to time during the search process. In between ' committee members will be pleased to respond to questions within the limits permitted by the confidential nature of some of the information as mentioned above. U!C IBM USERS GROUP MEETING Announcement ~ THURSDAY, JANUARY 25 1990 Noon - 1:00 p.m. HUMANITIES BLDG. RM. 019 }ami Bult - Word Petfect 5.1 Desserts and Beverages provided - wanTED ** EDITORS ** FRESHMAN RECORD 1994 APPLICATIOI\IS AVAILABLE IN THE Dean of Students Office Colle!'Je Center: 306 APPUCA TiON DEADLINE: February 1 f 1990 Friedlander Named Union University Vice Chancellor Courtesy of Public Relations RobeFt L. Freidlander ~ . ' ' execauve vtce president for · academic health sciences and prov()st of Albany Medical Center, became vice chancellor of Union University on Jan. 1. Announcement of the appointment was made by John S. Morris, president of Union College and chancellor of Union University. The university is an association of independent instutituons including Union College: Albany Law School, Albany Medical Center, Albany College of Pharmacy and Dudley Observatory. TH.e university's intercollegiate efforts include shared management programs, centered at Union College, and a j()int course in ethics available for medical residents at Albany medical Center and law students at Albany Law School. Morris said that Freidlander \will evaluate our joint successes and explore the potential for new, joint programs.\ Friedlander came to ALbany Medical Center in 1962 as a resident in obstretrics and gynecology. He served as the medical college's 13th dean from 1980 to 1988. He is a member of the medical center's Board of Directors and has been a member of the institutions's Council for Academic Health Services and a board member of the Albany Medical Center Foundation. He has been president of the Associated Medical School of New York State, chairman of the Private Free-S tanding Medical School Deans, and a member of the Council of Deans' Administrative Board of the Association of American Medical Colleges. IEF DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories--student-initiated projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday February 16 1990. ' ' Pro~osals for student-initiated research projects must have the wntten approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S-1 00, Science & Engineering Building) on forms available there. Similarly, members of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (81 00). Guidelines with respect to the IEF asre available in the Dean's Office. ~nquiries about IEF, the guidelines, or the proposal deadlme should be directed to Dean George Bu1terstein, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing ~u~gets, please remember that per diem rates are normally l1m1ted to $80.00 per day. Transportation costs would also reflect the best rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then 1he proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. SPEAK \JP UNION! -ro ~l'!Tf:R·. ~ c~\l 'h401 s I!IP- . , St 3 1'l LAp 1 n \11r!e Gt1Adet1t Ac-·h••-he• O.ff(c,e- CC-4o8

CONCOR.JJIENSJS, Januar.y .18, 1990 Page 5 COLGATE UNIVERSITY .• • invites you. to consider a career in teaching~ · Colgate University offers the Masters of Arts in Teaching degree to U:beral arts graduates int~rested in teaching high school science, :mathe;matics, English, and social studies. Generous financial aid is available to qualified students. For more information write to: George E. De Boer, ·chairperson, Department of Education, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY 13346/Phone: (315) 824-1000. · for New York State ResidentsOnly New York State B·oard ·of Re.gen·ts Announces the · Empire State Challenger Scholarships and Fellowships for Teacpers Undergraduate Scholarship A wards up to $3,000 per year Graduate Fellowship Awards up to $4,000 per year . andthe Paul D-ouglas Scholarships for Teachers ·Undergraduate.Awa;rds Only up to $5,000 per year · Academic Year July 1, 1990- June 30,1991 Mathematics Bilingual Education Children with These Awards will be for Teachers of: Handicapping Condi~ions . English to Speakers of Other Languages and the fields of: Science Foreign Language Occupational Education (Agriculture, Business, Home Economics and Industrial Arts) School Counselor* School Media Specialist School Media Specialist* (Library)* , School Psychologist* * Graduate Programs Only All applj.cation materials must be postma:rk:ed by February 28, 1990. Applications are available ip the Educational Studies Office, Humanities Bldg~ 020. ••••••••••••••••••••••• BOX OFFICE: 346•6204 ••••••••••••••••••••••• PIZZA & DELI SUBS Free Delivery 370-2400 WINT.ER is a good time to go within - a good ti:me for medltation Col)le to the Meditation Study Group and learn how to meditate. Every Wednesday at 5 p.m. ~in College Center 302\ Instructions for beginners provided every week Crosstalk Presents . Should the State (or anyone else for that matter) have the right to interfere with your drinking? Tuesday, January 23, 1990 Upper Class Dining Hall 8:00p.m. Panelists: Adam Gahtan '90 Lynda Hynes '90 Assemblyman James Tedisco '72 Prof. Chris Laursen

CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 COLGATE UNIVERSITY .. . invites you to consider a career in teaching. Colgate University offers the Masters of Arts in Teaching degree to liberal arts graduates interested in teaching high school science, mathematics. English, and social studies. Generous financial aid is available to qualified students. For more information write to: George E. De Boer, Chairperson, Department of Education, Colgate University, Hamilton, NY 13346/Phone: (315) 824-1000. For New York State Residents Only New York State Board of Regents Announces the Empire State Challenger Scholarships and Fellowships for Teachers Undergraduate Scholarship Awards up to $3,000 per year Graduate Fellowship Awards up to $4,000 per year and the Paul Douglas Scholarships for Teachers Undergraduate Awards Only up to $5;000 per year Academic Year Juiy 1, 1990- June 30, 1991 These Awards will be for Teachers of: Mathematics B-ilingual Education Children with Handicapping CondiUons English to Speakers of Other Languages and the fields of: Science Foreign Language Occupational Education (Agriculture, Business, Home Economics and · Industrial Arts) School Counselor* School Media Specialist School Media Specialist* (Library)* School Psychologist* * Graduate Programs Only All application materials must be postmarked by February 28, 1990. Applications are available in the Educational Studies Office~ Humanities Bldg. 020. 1itlll' ~oining· ··one· ••· bf, . .-aftr ····alumni· and .tA~ir tamuy· ft?f: .,~~-( ~Y:~~pg of. fine food, conversation, atit[';r~m.i:q\S:t!· .. ·· · .. ·. J( yQ'lii : ~e·. you'll want to sign up for ·TASTEr·· ... ' , ... · '·~, ,.. ' .... ~~~~~\68 :. '· ... ••••••••••••••••••••••• PROCTOR'S l1 J TOO new 41Jgoo of portormanco. at the NOTITHEATRE s K I r--.... . • \ .. ·\\' I' Page 5 PIZZA & DELI SUBS Free Delivery 370-2400 WINTER is a good time to go within - a good tirne for meditation Cot:ne to the M,editation Study Group and learn how to meditate. Every Wednesday at 5 p.m. ··in College Center 302. Instructions for beginners provided every week Cro·sstalk Presents Should the State (or anyone else for that matter) have the right to interfere with your drinking? Tuesday,Janua~23, 1990 Upper Class Dining Hall 8:00p.m. Panelists: Adam Gahtan '90 Lynda Hynes '90 Assemblyman James Tedisco '72 Prof. Chris Laursen s K I on the Campus of Union College THURSDAY January 18 , \,, Starting· Sun., Jan 14 and every Sun!~ through Feb. 25th FRIDAY '\:. January 19 \ SATURDAY • January 20 BOX OFFICE: 346·6204 ···:···················· JANUARY 21 Ski Windham JANUARY 28 Hunter Mt. Transportation provided by Student Activities. Sign up sheet SAO, 408 CCM : ./ffrs,f Come, First Serve , __ ; ~ -', -J. --.,=.= -- :: -_,- . ....... ,., ............. :o...--.L.>t.· Center Circle 7 a*m.

CONCfJRDJENSIS, January 1'8; !99(} , ' . .., . .,. ~ ~· '• ' ,.- ': r. • \ ~. ~ \' i I'~ ~ .. ' \\r • ~-.. --- By JON HENES The dust whipped across my body and face frorn the wind that entered through the spaces between the hard wooden store buildings. The sun reflected off my tired and wrinkled face. My eyes, closed halfway so as to see in my battle against the blinding sun, examined the young man who sto()d before me. The young man's wide open eyes stared back at me. I saw something in h.is eyes that I had once had in my own eyes. There was fire and confidence . and a bit of arrogance which contrasted greatly with the fear in my old eyes. Fear was something that I had never felt before and my strong and hard body felt small across from this young man, although he was no bigger tl-un I. Why should I be scared, it seemed as it was only yesterday when I stood across from an aging man who was going to succumb to my confidence and strength and unwillingly pass on his title to me of being the best. Now this yo11ng man with his hat pulled down over one eye was smirking at me. The young man ovened his mouth and inquired if I were \The Kid\. I looked as sharply as my old eyes were able to, right into his eyes and in my not confident growl I answered, \yep\. The young man stared at me, look...:d me up and down, rubbc:d his chin and startC'd a speech. \Kid. I have been listening ;,,lhc· ,,,,rit·sahmll)Oll SIII>.'O.: l · 1 t ll . ' . . I ... ·; '. :~,,\· :•·· \'.;t ., ·1,:1.1 trl'-'J'Ir~'l ·.,. i ... ,.- .. i \.\')') .. , ,o I ,, .. ,t.t. \j ·'· -·'''-'-1:'~·~~:.->l•'·i\.l( ' ' · •• \ •·. 1 : Ut . }. \ ' . ;, i ',_· \ 1 . ,, , ; . . ~ '- ; hearing? These were words that I heard everyday from~someone trying to be \The New Kid\ hut they never scared me before, I loO>ked at this young man and I knew my time had come. So did he. The young man spoke as he put his hands in his pockets, pulled out paper and tobacco. and began to roll a ci~arette. 11 Kid, I have the deepest re&pec t for you and because of thi~ respect, I will let you dtop your gun artd ride away slowly on your horse. I don't want to· kill you, but if you don't ride away, you know I have to.\ I could walk away, ride off into tile sunset. I could go to a new town under a new name and live the rest of my life jn a bar with my peers, drinking, sh()oting the shit, wooing women. Sure, I would have my life, I would be alive. I looked up at the sun, looked down at the ground and realized that I C()uld not run. I was a legend, I was the best, I was \The Kid\ alld I could not run, where is rn:y pride. I would have to try to be quick once more, once Ill()re. I looked at the kid and the following ,.words were pushed Ollt of my mouth from the lat\ge lump in my throat. \I ai11;t runnin. I'm still the best and I will be until I lose and I ain't given up. And no young man like yourself is going to run me out of here.\ The young man looked sad ao.; he put his cigarette in his mouth and lit it. ''I guess I'll kw~· tu kill you the, I rc:.llly ;w~1 ~0rn· _\ \\ ~' Sl(lilJ ,I,'\'\' It d!ll l.';!LIL ~~~I··~ I' :J •h! -~ t )t':!. ~-~ :11 l~ l:'~~\.';) k-·,·ltl 'il'! ••· 1 1'1 1 ·'•1 'l•.''\1·· '11\' ~ ... -(,. .~,... \.1-'-'-'-Ji.iO...'-. ',\ _~. i ·, l•i : .. _'!.>lJl: l 1 J·: ·d ,.' ;\!1-J -~ ~·~ __ .. ~! ' • j I' •• l' '. j' 'I ! ' . :,{lu·-:~ f1l~H~ '\'(\.:, - 1 _ · ~ i -.;) i ~ L i r :_!I ! ~ .. ; 11 u L' n ··~. ~ Mon.~Fri .. 2-4:30 Sun.-Thurs. 7-ID·OO Whitaker Bouse FEATURES • I he even removed his hat., put his fingers through his hair and then placed the hat on his head again. The time had come, we dropped our hands to our waists and reached for our guns. The young man shot and I felt a burning sensation in my stomach. My shot went straight into the air as I fell helplessly flat on my back. The pain in my stomach was unbearable. I reached for the pain and felt nothing by wet clothes. I raised by ann and saw a blood covered hand. My breathes began to get shorter and my heart beat quicker. Suddenly the wind stopped blowing and the sun stopped shining The pain left my bOdy and I became very relaxed, and I watched as someone with white hall' and glasses touched m·y neck and then put my hat over my face. I then watched as they picked my body up and walked away with it. I stood up in amazement as they carried me away and I watched, alllcould do was watch. I realized that I was dead, the legend, the best, \The Kid\ \The Kid\ was no more, he was dead. I began to cry when I looked across from where I was standing and I saw the legend, the best, \The New Kid\. He beat me, he was quicker, he was better, and he was now \The Kid\. He stood and paid his last respects to me and turned and walked away feeling unbeataelc just as I had years before. He was a good kid, my shame ended quickly and I was at peace. Since that day there have been five new kids, except now they don't use guns, th~y r.Jo it in sports, or t'tbith·~~'. with ti1c·ir j'try~icai ;Jbllit) or a pen. l <Jm sLtll 't. ' ) 1 ~.; r . v '· v h . r \\ l ! -, p (\ . f~' '~ : \ r-· '\ -l • ~ , , , • , \- ., • < , 1, J '·- .• , • . l '-. ·- < \, i {· , 1 '(_ i,_, 'uj'~\•.'l1f .', ,\i:d ~:l~~~~··u•;'i l :u,·r P(• f.>q•~.;r il'>tll~: .. l \\'Jii.·tlw;Jy-_ h.:· 'Ill,: :·,iJ\. . - SPAA Looks Forward to a_ Suc·cessful Winter Term By KAREN HURWI'fZ The Students for Political Action and Awareness organization began the Winter term with an informational meeting on Monday. January 8. Professor Reynolds attended the meeting and discussed possible plans for a guest, · Reverend William Sleane Coffin, Jr., to sp~ at Union in the beginning of Spring · · term; William Sloane Coffin is &est known for his roles as · Chaplain at Yale, a leader in . both the civil rights struggle, . and in the anti- Vietnam movement, pastor at New York City's Riverside Chmch, and · head of the SANE/FREE2iE: , Campaign for Global Security. He has travelled extensively around the country and the world to promote international human rights and peace. This term SPAA runs each .meeting with a aew format. A different current event issue will be discussed at the beginning of each meeting. On January 15th SPAA members debated the United States action in Panama. Union students are welcome to join SPAA 'OU Monday . evenings at 7:30 p.m. in CC203. If you cannot attend the ttext meeting bu~ are interested in getting involved, contact Jen Holmes at 377- 358&, or Julie Davis at 374- 7504. WE NJEJED You·~.·~·~ FOR THE PARENTS' WEEKEND COMMITTEE U\!QUIRE AT DEAf'-' OF STUDENTS' OFFICE COLLEGE CEI\lTER: RCJOI\~ 306 BLFOH.J: .~ . ...-a.----- - - I e; OJ S) d u ir Sl d e: si p h h e u lt c a . i' I r 1 1 r J I I

. . I.Jl},f~\ .~~ •(ntt:n:;~t {~~G 1 /t'iUQ.Jl\)')'.f,(i'~) CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 FEATURES ~.;· ~:;·~ill '1 Page· 7 In Search of the Eternal Parking Space By SUZANNE SHAKElt Feature Ed,itor Parking in Schenectady ~an be a · most unpleasant experience especially for those of us wllo fail to s~ the joy in spending \louts riding up and down Giilespe Street and University Place. Why <lh why did THEY ever invent alternate side of the street puking? Why oh why did they? To ·make tliings more exciting, of course, silly me silly you! Finding an available parking s,:pace is like a game of hide and seek in which tbe hider ref11ses to reveal his/her extremely clever biding plac;:e until 'he/~he can stand it no longer or until mother nature calls. It is bad enough to search for a parking space during the day. . it is the absolute pits at 11: 13 p.m .. foUowing a completely unproductive night at tbe library which resulted in the loss of a staring contest with my psycho-biology textbook. All I wanted was to find that perfect spot (smack in front 0f my apartment), crawl into b~d and fall soundly asleep under my full of fluff down comforter. Little did I know G- D had an altei'nate set of plans awaiting my arrival. Both sides of the street had been completely drained of parking spaces and to top the evening off Mr. Policeman was genemusly doling out tickets to all tbose lucky winners who had tried but failed to obey the ridiculous law. Attempting to avoid Mr. Policeman and Mr. Ticket I pulled my car into my tiny d,riveway, thus blocking the two cars already parked there, which is why I try never to park in the driveway and am forced. to take . on tile perils of altemate side of the street parking. All set to· escape from the subzero temperatures of Schenectady, ready to rendezveus with my .down comforter, I began the short run from my car to the front door only to be stopped dead in my tracks, \I'm gornna hafta give ya a ticket for :parking on the sidewalk ya kn<>w.\ Do I pretend to be deaf :and ignore Mr. Policeman, do I argue about the absurdity of the present parking situation or do I .passive~y.trudge back to my car hoping that perhaps. a space has~ magically been created for me within the last three . minutes? Wbat to do? \Where should I park then?\ I asked fooliShly as if this cop gave a damn about me_ and my car's welfare. \Beats me. I doll' know.\ . . I tried rationally to explain the parking spotless situation. \So do you suggest that I park o_n the next street Qr perhaps even the street after that and then walk home alone'!\ \Don't know wbat to tell you.\ Obviously I was talking to a man of incredible wisdom. I insisted that I be emtitled to a measly parking space, arguing that I pay rent·to live on this street. I obviously failed to impress the officer \Ain't my fault the landlords pack you kids in these apartments with yollil' cars and all.\ My battle was lost. I retreated back to my car, rode I through .the streets of Schenectady passing Ben and Jerry's three times if only .it had still been o]ien I was definitely ready t() tackle a Vermonster all ·ty myself. Twenty minutes later my new buddy in blue had disappeared and the sidewalk was mine. The moral of the story is, Union College brings money to Schenectady. thus indirectly our parents' dollars and our own contribute to the upkeep of the,community, especially for thos.e of us who live off campus .. Many of us live off campus because, even though not all of us like to admit it very often Union is faced with housing problems. Although haviQg a car when living off campus is not a necessity it does make life much easi~r. Not only is a car more practical for everyday needs, such as doing laundry at the local laundromat, .(now that the machines are no longer simply downstairs in the basement of our dorms} but also in terms of safety having a car is smart. As all of know that walking alone at night is just asking for trouble. In general Union's security is reliable. yet not always and sometimes the wait can be quite long and frustrating. Security is not a taxi service and does not provide unlimited transportation. Union will not provide service to and from bars therefore students are forced to fend for themselves. On the other hand, with the use of a car the designated driver will make sure that all arrive home safely. Yet we are often penalized for having cars, tickets are distributed like Christmas gifts off campus and on campus 1 0 ALL NIGHTPARK. 18 0 THEATER ENTRANCE 2 0 IMPROPER PARK. 40 0 R.R. BRIDGE 3 0 MI:JER VIOLATION 41 OBEt CURB & WALK IME:IE:H NO.~----'--- 42 0 END OF ISLE/MALL 4 0 OVERTIME PARK. 44 DPOSTED SIGN . 5 [) WRONGWA'f PARK. tOG ALTERNATE SIOL; PARK. 900THER l2DBUS STOP 13 0 DOUBlE PARK. ODRIVEWAY 15 0 ARE HYDRANT 0 INTERSECT. PARK. OSIOEWALK OOTHER there exists only two designated areas in which \commtltct\ stu.dents are legally allowed to· park in. (If this is to encourage students to live on campus then what Union really needs to do is actively deal with the housing situation. Build some on campus apartments. perhaps?) Schenectady is said to have one of the highest crime rates in (he United States therefore more police officers should be out there trying to stop rapists, burglars and murders and worry tess about writing silly nonsense parking tickets. The Schenectady police force should concentrate on catclling the true criminals and give us students a break. TICKET Niji.ME3ER · 21 0 SNOW REM()VAL 22 t:l FIRE LANE 2900THER $25.00 FINE 39 0 ABANDONED CAR 43 0 HANDICAfPED PARKING 4500THER IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIOUIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036·2266 IIIIIIIIIIIIIIJIIIIIIIIIIIJ II IIi IIIIIIIIIUIIIU 1111111111 Ill 11111111111111111111111111111111 i 111111111 llllllll Six Faculty Are Promoted at Union Student Forum Elections \ COURTESY OF PUBLIC RELATIONS Six Union College faculty members have been promoted to ftdl professor by the College\s Board of Trustees. They are Robert Baker of Schenectady. philosophy; Peter Heinegg of Schenectady, chair of the English Department; Harry Marten of Schenectady, English; Ann M. Seemann of Ballston Spa, director of Schaffer Library; William Thomas of Schenectady, modern languages and literature; and William Zwicker of Sch-enectady. chair of the Mathematics Department. Baker, who earned a doctorate in philosophy from the University of Minnesota and a bachelor's degree, with honors, from City Colle·ge of New York, joined the Union faculty in 1973. Just before coming to Union, lle bad been an assistant professor of philosophy at Wayne State University. Union faculty in 1976, received a doctorate in comparative literature from Harvard · University in 1966 with a major in English literature and minors in modem French and Spanish literature and· a bachelor's degree in English, magna cum la11de, from Fordham University. Just before coming to Union he had been 'assistant pmfessor of comparative literature at Queens College. Marten came to Union in 1976 from Washington University in St. Louis, Mo., where he was an assistant professor. He earned a doctorate and master's degree at the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1970 and 1967, respectively, and a bachelor's degree from Harpur College in 1965. Seemann received a master's degree in library science from Simmons College in 1964 and joined the Union faculty in 1973. She received a bachelor's degree from Oberlin College in 1956. Just before coming to Union, she had been editor of the Union List Of Serials at the Capital District Library Council, Schenectady. · Thomas, who is director of the Terms Abroad program at Union, joined the College's • faculty in 1969 immediately after serving as a lecturer in English at the Universite d'Orleans-Tours in France for a year. He received a doctorate in French from the State University of New York at Buffalo in 1970 and a bachelor's degree in French from Hamilton College in 1962. Zwicker, who earned a doctorate in mathematics from Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1975 and a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Harvard University in 1971, joined the Union faculty that same year. He also taught at MIT before i coming to Union. Positions .available: Freshman President Freshman Vice-President Freshman Treasurer Sophomore Treasurer Elections will take place on February 2. Those interested should see Mrs. Marra in Room 409 in the College Center in order to pick up petitions. Petitions due January 29 In addition, one Finance representative position is available. See Mrs. Marra for an application since this is an appointed position. ,. ' ! ..

' Page 8 . . CQNt;ORDIENSIS, J.qnua.ry, 11}, 1,9_90 WANTED:- Cabaret Performers for the night of Thurs., Jan. 25th, Call Chris at 372-4310 or Allison at 386-4095 GERMAN UNIVERSITY EXCHANGE Every year Union awards up to three full scholarships for study at a German university. Regardless of your major, if you will be a junior next year, and if you have at least a beginning acquaintance With German at this point, you could be chosen to spend your junior year at Heidelberg, or Munich, or Berlin, or Bonn or any of more than a dozen other I universities in West Germany, as a recipient of a stipend from the Federation of German American Clubs. For more information, see Professor Anton Warde, Department of Modern- Languages, Humanities 211, by January 31. SIGN UP NOW!<:::] : HII JID MARK YOUR CALENDARS The following lineup of Culinary Expose's are coming up soon SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1990 Grecian Feast, featuring guest chefs Professors Linda Patrik, Jim Larnbrinos and Mrs~ Lambrinos Food - Music - Dancing FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16, 1990 ~~ \The Civil Chefs 11 , featuring guest chefs Professors Phil Snow, Paul Weiss, Greg Gifford A touch of class beyond Engineer~ng. SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, 1990 Argentinian Extravanganza Professor Raquel Vinick A varied cuisine which features a triad of culinary influences- French; Italian and Spanish. FRIDAY, March 2, _1990 Kosher Shabbath _ Chef Anton,Segore and Jewish Student Union WEDNESDAY, March 7 Ogdens Restaurant - Rated one of the areas very finest. C 0 M r. N G S 0 0 N •

• · . · ~ , ~ r I ' ) • Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES A Soviet Twilight in Eastern Europe: Hoping for the Best Presence A ~Jurgeotinp· role of history lUIS 1111ce . aga1n reared its he11d By JOSE' ANDRODE The burgeoning J\ole of ,- history has once again reared its b.ead toward Europe as the Communist experiment in Eastern Europe ap.proac}les twilight. In less then a year, Poland, Czechoslovakia, East Germany, Hungary, Bulgaria·, Albania and Romania, as well as PaJ:ts of the Soviet Union, · have made significant changes: Eastern Europe .and the Soviet Union al\e presently in a state of anarchy. in their political systems. However, the end to Soviet power in Eastern Europe has yet to occur, and as the Soviet Union's power-base continues to erode in Eastern Europe aad the Soviet Union, what will the Soviet Union do to stem the possible destruction of its empire? Can they stop reform in Eastern Europe? Gorbachov's presence of autonomy to East Europe ·has turned to presence of the Red Army. the only authority left in Eastern Europe. For the timebeing, Eastern Europe is not in a position to m~ke a total break from the Soviet Union and neither ca11 the Soviet Union stop a Ea.stern European brea.k. Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union presently are in a state of anarchy - only a large Soviet Army and KGB appear to have any authority in these countries. While the events in Eastern Europe are momentous, almost dizzying, the presence of this · large Soviet force throughout Eastern Europe is a sobering reaHty to even the most romantic optimist. This brge Soviet force· is remotely linked to the presence of a large United States force in Western Europe. Until the _ Soviet Union and the United States meet in June and July, 1990, to discuss collventional and nuclear arms reductions, there is little chance that the Soviet Union will 1;ernove its forces from Eastern Europe. What are the Soviet Union's intentions 'by retaining a large conventional force in Eastern Europe? I believe that the Soviet Union does not plan to use its forces at any time, however, I believe that the Soviet Union is giving tlie appearance that they could use these troops to quell any insurrection in Eastern Europe. This IJlan may grant the commu!list regi!lles in Eastern EuroiJe the breathing space they need in order to regain control of the almost anarchistic state which Eastern Europe is in at this time. Except for Romania and Hunga.ty, Eastern Europe is still controlled by communist regi·rnes who have only recently loosened their totalitarian grip on society .to If reforms are administered too quickly the Soviet Uf)ion . . • will ru1e by martial law .. accommodate the almost universal outcry for reform. Rcfonns in Eastern Europe in the past· year have been tremendous, however, they are trivi~l compared to the reforms which the East Europeans have been demanding. The East European communist regimes A Tai Chi class will be offered on Thursdays in the College Center Room 410 from 5:00 pm - 6:00 pm. Classes will begin Thursday, January 18 and end march 8. It is an ancient Chinese premise that the key to prevention and curing disease is within one's own body. Tai Chi means life-giving .and i.s slow circlular moyemen1 for both physical and mental health. Tai Chi is a form of self- defense and is the classical Chinese exercise for maintaining health and p~olongi ng life. ·Instructor will be Janet Weick RN BA (class of 1986); Her teacher- Wang Sheng M.D. from Yangzhou, China. Fee: Student free. Faculty and staff-$2.5..00. Register- 346-4785. stili retain control, yet their authority is fragile, almost bankrupt, and eroding qujckly. Another spasm from the people of Eastern Europe could end comm~unism in Eastern Europe. One argument these communist regimes use in order to slow the process of reform is that if reforms are administered too quickly, the Soviet Union will crush the governments and rule by marshal law. Memories of Soviet crackdowns in Poland, Hungary, East Germany and Czechoslovakia in the past forty years are sure to scare a good number of people away from . protests, Unfortunately fer the communist regimes, most of the people protesting were not alive when these ·crackdowns occurred or they have overcome their fear of crackdown. The communist regimes also hope that the people will be patient with reform, lose their revolutionary zeal and eventually go back to the way of life they have lived for the past forty years. This mode of th.inking is as unrealistic as it is impractical, yet these countries are afraid of a Soviet crackdown. Even though Romania is not a communist nation any longer, they have not repudiated the Soviet Union. What the Soviet Union will do if an uprising occurs in Eastern Europe will depend on its own domestic situation. If the Soviet Union can salve their own problems, it will be able to stop :potential insurrection in Europe. However, the Soviet Union has too many problems at home in the Baltic States and Anncnia- it can only wish that Eastern Language Tables Mondays: French, Hebrew, Russian -12:30- 1 :30 Tuesdays: Chinese, Italian - 12:30 ,. 1 :30 Wednesdays: German, Japanese, Spanish - 12:30 - 1:30 WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Will the Soviet Union remain .a whole nation under Gorbachev's political and economic reforms? Europe will remain dormant by keeping a formidable force in Eastern Europe. If the Soviet Union did auempt to quell an insurrection in Europe, a full- scale uprising throughout Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union would probably topple the remaining Communist regimes in those countries. The Soviet Union will not commit itself and hope for the best. What is ironic about the Soviet Union's solution is that it is the plan of one of the Bolshevik leaders who recently rehabilitated by Gorbachov. In 1918, Leon Trotsky recommended that anarchy be their solution for their war I can not predict a winner because history is usually the result of trivial events. with Germany - neither sign a peace treaty nor fight Germany: No solution is the solution. Trotsky eventually would be expelled and exterminated by Stalin in the '30s. Only three years ago, he was partially rehabilitated and now the Soviet Union is using his solution.slightly inverted: they cannot afford to use force, but they will give the appearance that they can give force. As the 1990's progress, Eastern Europe wi11 be moving towards a showdown between the will of communism versus the will of the people. I cannot A Show of Faith It's not often one can anend a show in ~ew York and come awr~v saying. ''Yes, but how will it play in Lithuania'.'\ That que~tion, though, could not . have been far from the mind of famed Soviet poet Andrey Voznesensky, whose Russian- language rock opera, \Junon and Avos: The Hope,\ opened last week with much fanfare, and even a visit from Jackie Onassis. Set in 19th-century Russia and America, \Junon\ deals with the need for na- tions~and individuals-to reach \a new understanding.\ predict a winner (though I would like the people to win) because history is ust~ally the result of trivial events (accidents and personality) which happen to trigger more profound events (society and sentiment) which are subsequently guided by more trivial events. Wouldn't that be ironic if the people overthrew communism! For the Soviet Union, this situation in Eastern Europe and parts of their own country is one of the most serious in their history. As hard-liners point their fingers at Gorbachov for the unraveling of the Soviet Union and its empire, it is clear even to them that it is too late to remedy their ills with coercion. Nevertheless, Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union might not explode, but event'\ in both areas are pointing toward it. As twiJight subtly devours the Soviet Union, I can only give a word of warning: Throughout history, whenever a great power is in its twilight, it often becomes desperate. The Soviet Union still retains a huge nuclear arsenal and it might usc it if their power is completely jeopardized. .Twilight of communism may result in the twilight of our planet. In two weeks, I will discuss either the integral differences between Soviet and Western systems or the ramifications of 1992: the EEC, West Gcnnany and the possibility of a Eastern Economic Coalition. SD:\1,) ~IDSKOWITZ Glasnost: Mrs. 0, Voznesensky PIZZA & DELI SUBS Free Delivery 370-2400 1: '!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES· See The Soviet Union During the winter term, t:he Russian Club in cenjunctiol!. with the, Modem Language-s Dept. will sp()nsor a series ()f five Russiall films Oil historical t()pics. The first movie, Alexan.de1· Nevsky, was shown on Thursday evening, January 11, to be followed by Ivan tll·'4! Terrible, Part I on January 25 and Part 'II on February :8, and Peter the First, Part l on February 22 and Part II 011 March 8. All films are h1 Russian with Engl'is11 subtitles. Sergei Eisenstein, tile director of lloth Alexander Nevsky (1938) and Ivan the Terrible, I & II (1944-- 1946), is widely regarded as one of the best Soviet film directors. ln Ale x an d e r N e v sky be directed th.e splendid actor, Nikolai Cherkassov, in the heroic role of Alexander, Prince of Novgorod. whc, in the 13th. century, defeated the invadi11g Teutonic knights. The film i!; accompanied by Sergei Prokofiev's magnificent musical score and the famous battle on the ice of Lake Chticl (which actually took place 011 April 5. 1242) stands out as one of the most memorable a11s stirring scenes ever put 011 film. Some of Eisenstein's be5t work can be seen in I van Tile Terrible I &. II, the two parts of an intended trilogy, never completed because of Eisenstein's death in 194~L Tsar Ivan i:S again playe<i magnificently by Nikolai Cherkassov. Th.e movie is \ ... spectac\llar in scope and authentic in detail, a work of such grand scale that the tw;o parts are often described ;as ot)cratic. Medieval Russia is ·depicted as a gloomy but Opulent place; the passio;ns at work in the film are altelillately anguished and hopeful. Prokofiev, once more the composer, produced an impressive musical score to fit the film's pagentry and moods.\l Two short experimental color sequences are incorporated in Part II of the film: vfbrant red predominates in a scene of wild. revelry by Ivan's orpichnild (his sinister <lOrps of servants) while a bluish ti.nt symbolizes fear on the face of Ivan's cousin, Vladjmir, as he is about to be killed. Peter the First I and JI (1937-1938) deals with the turbulent middle years of Peter's reign. The screeniJla.y is by Alexei Tolstoy, the director is Vladimir Petrov. The tsar is forcefully portrayed by NJk<Jlai Simonov; his son, the tsarevich Alexis, by Nicolai Cherkassov. The film b-egins with the defeat of the Russian army at the hands of the Swedes at Narva on No\. 30, 1700, a defeat that SJ}'urred Peter I to reconstruct his military forces and, in g~neral, to push Russia on the road to reforms which would. bring her closer to the Western pattern. All five films will be shown at 7 p.m. in College Center. Room 406, and should appeal not only to students of Russian, but also to h.istory students and to all those interested in the history of the cinema per se. Admission is free. 1 Frank E. Beaver, A History of the Motion Picture (N.Y.: McGraw Hill Book Co., 1983), p. 27{). International Education Services invites applica1ions for a one year assignm€1lt in Japan teaching En glist1 languag€ st<ills in schoo I settings as well as to Japanese business people from major corporations and government offices. Mir:~ ihlum academic requiremenJ is a Bachelor's degree; some work experience desirable. , 10eral Aits degree l1olders as well as tho~.c with sptlciali..::ed degrees (i.e. management, engineering, Dh::1rm<1 ceutica!. sectJ rHies finance. languages ·..:oucatJor;, dc. 1 are en(;ou raged to apply. Please subm11 current resume and cover letter accompanied by a recent photo to: lnternationc.l EduCation Services Shin· Taiso Building 10-7 Dogenzaka, 2-ch.ome Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150 JAPAN Fax Number. (81 )-03-464-7089 .,. ~. Euents in the East. generate mass confusion in the West This Week in the World . . A state of emerg~ncy .in Azetbaijan has. been declared. The Kremlin ordered troops to help contain ethnic hostilities in the southern Soviet replublic. Open armed combat was reported. News analysis: Ruma.,1ian leaders who, facing a mass protest agreed to outlaw the already de;funct Communist Party· and allow a vote on the death penalty actecf in haste and made a mistake, a Government official said. The American spy in Moseow who has been sentenced to death was apparently one of the most ' important recruits ever to seiVe American intelligence, American officials said. . · President Havel bf Czechot~lova:kia, a noted pl~ywright, says that his work tn office has benefited more from his time in jail, which taught him not to be surprised at anything, than his experiences in theater. Japan wiU not renew loans--to China despite the lifting of martial law in Beijing, Talks to arrange $5.6 billion in aid, suspended after the army crackdown, will resume but probably not until thlS spring, Tokyo said. The Communist Party in Bulgaria was stripped of its constitutionally mandated monopoly on political power by the National Assembly. Prisoners in Egypt are tortured and sexually abused routinely by security forces, an Egyptian human rights group sajd. Tensions in the Salvadoran military and within the govemlng party of President Alfredo CFistiani have been aggravatt.\d by lhc arrest of four offi~-crs and four soldiers in the kUling of siX Jesuit priests. A P. L. 0. head in southern Lebanon threatened to retaliate for attacks against his men by Lebanese Shite Muslim militiamen. . East :Berlin'.s security headquarters was stormed by thousands of _protesters who destroyed files, furniture and windows. Communist and opp()sitlon leaders appea1ed for peace. Quotations of the Day \I'll apply for a green cctrd.jor.these guys if I ha!Je to. This is what America is all about\ . Animal importer ANDY KOFFMAN, 011 his unsuccessful effort to enter 10 cnohnous African Goliath frogs in California's FrogJumpingJubilec. \My personal fate is linked to tl1is choice. The two states must live together.\ -President Gorbachc:v, addressing Lithuanians on scpamtism. 'There ll'•'rt' l(',!fll'l:< (jll or•,.,. rlw squwe, culrirtgfot fhc /\rrrv•;Jidns fn b\ drincnfrom fhc rity. rhry listed the addresses of Armenian houses aru:1 apartments. n -Nazim ~imov, on ethnic violenc-e in Bn.ku, Azcmaijan. L-------------·-------------------------------~·~~---·~·--------~--- ATTENTION UNION STUDENTS Anyone interested in signing a petition for a winter term abroad in Spain, 1991 please immediately contact Liz Youngman (x4185) or Patty Stadulis (x4386) ***Without your sig~~:·atures there is no trip!!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES See The Soviet Union During the winter term, the Russian Club in conjunction with the Modern Languages Dept. wHI sponsor a series of five Rnssian films on historical topics. The first movie, Alexander N evsky, was shown on Thursday evening, January 11, to be followed by Ivan the Terrible, Part I on January 25 and Part II on Febrnary 8, and Peter the First, Part I on February 22 and Part II on March 8. All films are in Russian with English subtitles. Sergei Eisenstein, the director of both Alexander Nevsky (1938) and Ivan the Terrible, I & II ( 1944- 1946), is widely regarded as one of the best Soviet film directors. In Alexander Nevsky he directed the splendid actor, Nikolai Cherkassov, in the heroic role of Alexander, Prince of Novgorod, who, in the 13th century, defeated the invading Teutonic knights. The film is acco,npanied by Sergei Prokofiev's magnificent musical score and the famous battle on the icc of Lake Chud (which actually took place on April 5, 1242) stands out as one of the most memorable ans stirring scenes ever put on film. Some of Eisenstein's best work can be seen in Ivan The Terrible I & II, the two parts of an intended trilogy, never completed because of Eisenstein's death in 1948. Tsar Ivan is again played magnificently by Nikolai Cherkassov. The movie is n ... spectacular in scope and authentic in detail, a work of such grand scale that the two parts are often described as operatic. Medieval R Mssia is ·depicted as a gloomy but opulent place; the passions at work in the film are altemately anguished and hopeflll. Prokofiev, OAce more the composer, produced an impressive musical score to fit the film's pagentry and moods.\l Two short experimental color seqHences are incorporated in Part II of the film: vibrant red predominates in a scene of wild revelry by Ivan's orpicbniki (his sinister corps of servants) while a bluish tint symbolizes fear on the face of Ivan's cousin, Vladimir, as he is about to be killed. Peter the First I and II (1937-1938) deals with the turbulent middle years of Peter's reign. The screenplay is by Alexei Tolstoy, the director is Vladimir Petrov. The tsar is forcefully portrayed by Nikolai S imonov; his son, the tsarevich Alexis, by Nicolai Cherkassov. The film begins with the defeat of the Russian army at the hands of the Swedes at Narva on Nov. 30, 1700, a defeat that spurred Peter I to reconstruct his military forces and, in general, to push Russia on the road to reforms which would bring her closer to the Western pattern. All five films will be shown at 7 p.m. in College Center, Room 406, and should appeal not only to students of Russian, but also to history students and to all those interested in the history of the cinema per se. Admission is free. 1 Frank E. Beaver, A History of the Motion Picture (N.Y.: McGraw Hill Book Co., 1983), p. 270. ,- ,·,.0. ) ~J~\' International Education Services invites applications for a one year assignment in Japan teaching English language skills in school settings as well as to Japanese business people from major corporations and government offices. Minimum academic requirement is a f3achelor's degree: some work experience desirable. :H:;;j: !ut~ jegrl!<J l1olders as well as t11ose with spuciallzed degrees (1.e. management. engineering. r>t~~rm~ceutica! secunties. finance. languages ··GtJca:1or; utc 1 are encouraged to apply. Please submit ::urrrnt ro:sume and cover let1er accompanied by a recent photo to International Education Services Shin-Taiso Building 10-7 Dogenzaka, 2-chome Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150 JAPAN Fax Number: (81 )-03-464-7089 I Euents in the East generute mGss confusion in the West This Week in the World A state of emergency in A.zeroaijan has been declared. The Kremlin ordered troops to help contain ethnic hostilities in the southern Soviet replublic. Open armed combat was reported. News analysis: Rumanian leaders who, facing a mass protest, agreed to outlaw the already defunct Communist Party and allow a vote on the death penalty acted in haste and made a mistake, a Government official said. The American spy in Moseow who has been sentenced to death was apparently one of the most important recruits ever to setve American intelligence, American officials said. President Havel of Czechoslovakia, a noted playwright, says that his work in office has benefited more from his time in jail, which taught him not to be surprised at anything, than his experiences in theater. Japan will not renew loans to China despite the lifting of martial law in Beijing. Talks to arrange $5.6 billion in aid, suspended after the army crackdown, will resume but probably not until this spring, Tokyo said. The Communist Party in Bulgaria was stripped of its constitutionally mandated monopoly on political power by the National Assembly. Prisoners in Egypt are tortured and sexually abused routinely by security forces, an Egyptian human rights group said. Tensions in the Salvadoran military and within the governing party <>f President Alfredo Cristiani have been aggravated by the arrest of four officers and four soldiers in the killing of six Jesuit priests. A P. L. 0. head in southe .. n Lebanon threatened to retaliate for attacks against his men by Lebanese Shite Muslim militiamen. East Berlin's security headquarters was stormed by thousands of _protesters who dcstroyt'<i files, furniture and windows. Communist and opposition leaders appealed for peace. Quotations of the Day \''ll apply for a green card for fhese guys if 1 have to. This is what America is all about.\ Animal importer ANDY KOf<'F'MAN. on his unsuccessful effort to enter 10 enormous African Goliath frogs in California's Frog Jumping Jubilee. \My personal fate i.s li11ked to t/li.-; choice. The two states must live> together.\ -President Gorbachev, addressing Lithuanians on separatism. \Tit£Tc were lcuflcts all on..•r th£> squarr. culling for the 1\rmcnians to be driven from the city. They li.~terl t/1r nridrr>ssPs nf Armrnian M!LSCS and apartmcnts.\ -Nazim lmgimov, on ethnic violence in Baku, Azerbaijan. ATTENTION UNION STUDENTS ~t\nyone interested in signing a petition for, a winter term abroad in Spain, 1991 please immediately contact Liz Youngman (x4185) or Patty Stadulis (x4386) ***Without your signatures there is no trip!! ! ,j .) l '

$2500 leUowship If YQU're a current, full,time . college junloronenlor dem- onstratln!;j strong leqdershlp ' abilities and mojo~ng·in'busi­ ness or a btisinelss-related field, youmoy,be eligible lcr· · receive one df the Slot!) Form Companies FQundctlon's 30 Exceptional StudenfFeliow- Ship awards. YC>u mov use the feliowship:forthe cornpletlon otyourundergroductestud• las or for yoLJrfl~ year of . gto~u.cte worj<. Eligibility is not based on II' · ncncial·naed:·so'don~+.e~, elude younell if you!re already on a schoiQrship or gro'lt, Application and noml- noticinforins mcy bep~keq· up:althe dean\sciffice ortl;le flncnclplald office. Along J,ylfh the-forms. you'll receive CONCORDIBNSIS, January 18, 1990 Page 11 full details on t~eowords.ond ho~ to opply forcandldacy. Reclpienis oltl\e :30 fel- lowships will'be< chosE)~·bY an · independent committee. Demonstrate~ leadership, as well os.scholorshlp, character end career go<Jis will be con- ~ldered in the committee's se- teelioT!. Candidates m~Jst be Unlte(tStafes citizens. ,setter·hurr;\. Tl:\e deodll~e forocceptin¢<1PPiicati6ns and nomrr~otlons Is February 28.:.\t'll toke ten rninutes·to pick up·the•forms ~ Orld 'just think what itm,ight:get you!· Call for Papers .for THE UNION COLLEGE UNDERGRADUATE REVIEW· OF HUMANITIES· AND SOCIAL SCIENCES PIZZA & DELI SUBS Free Delivery 370-2400 ~-All Humanity and Social Science Topics Considered --Foreign Languag~ Papers Encouraged Start the Nineties off nghtl Do all of your papers m the CHUC room 1 ocCJted in the basement of Hum<Jnities -- Distribwtt:>d at Seven North-East Colleges SO WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO lOSE? S.UBMIT THAT 'A' PAPER! '! Looks great on your Resume, and it would make your .parents proed! All submisions must be original ·unpublished work of the author accompallied by fl.ill references. The Editor's .decision is final. Don't let time run out on you! tome use our . Rainbows or our Macintoshes. The choice is up to you. Deadline: Friday, 26 January 1990 Submit to: Melissa ,Bloom, Box 260, Union College Our teaching assistCJnts can even print one copy of your document for free on our laser printer. Come visit the CHUC room this term yot~'ll be glad that you d1d ' NEW YORK STATE HEALTH SERVICE €0RPS SCHOLARSHIPS ·Professional Study Registered Nursing • Physical Therapy • Occupational Therapy Physician's Assistant • Speech~Language Pathology Dental Hygiene • Pharmacy • Nurse Midwifery • Nruse Practitioner Academic Year 1990-1991 • The New Yorlc State Department of Health administers the State Health Service Corps to provide critically needed professionals in state facilities operated by the Office of Meptal Health (OMH), Office of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities (OMRDD) and the Department of Correctional' Services as well as eligible not-for-profit agencies that serve the mentally ill, the developmentally disabled, the medically indigent and Medicaid eligible, the IDVf AIDS popUlation and the blind and visually handicapped. • Scholarships of up to $15,000 per year for two years are available to cover the cost of attendance at an approved educati~al institution. The cost of attendance includes tuition and required education fees, room and board, books and tralisportation allowanqls. ' •Recipients of scholarship awards must agree to woik in a state-operated facility or participatin;g not-for-profit agency for a period of 1~ months for each year of scholarship. Employment will be in a professional capacity at prevailing salaries offered by the participating ag.~ncies. Employment opportunities are available in all regions of the state. Candidates Must: • be a U.S. citizen ot qualifying noncitizen; • be a legal resident of New Y otk State or be attending a school in New York State; • be enrolled, accepted•or applied for full-time study in a program approved by the State Education Department at the time of application; • be within 24 months of completion of professional training and meet eligibility requirements for licensure or certific-ation; • submit applications postmarked no later than February 12, 1990. FOR Awards are competitive based on academic performance, previous work experience and a demonstrated interest in working with the special populations. SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIO~S AND INFORMATION, New York State Health Service Cotps !NYS Department of Health Coming Tower- Room 1602, Empire State Plaza Albany, New York 12237-0053 WRITE:

! i 'i I CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 Page 11 $2500 fellowship If you're a current. full-lime college junior or sen1or dem- onstrath1g strong leadership abilities ond·majorlng,in busi- ness or a business-related field. you may be eligible to receive one of the State Farm Companies Foundation's 30 Exceptional Student Fellow- ship awards. You may use the fellowship for the completion of your undergraduate stud- Ies or far your first year of graduate work. Eligibility is nat based an fi- nanclal·need. so don't ex- clude yourself if you· re already on o·scholorshlp or grant. Application ano nomi- nation forms may be pteked · up at the dean~ office or t~e financial aid office. Along with the farms. you'll receive STATEj:.AAMCCM'~~A.TCN Clr'IIOSioteFamPa:o·~ ko$61710 full detatls on the-awards and how Ia 01pp1y for candidacy Recipients of the 30 lel- lowships will be chosen by an lndepe171dent comm1ttee Demonstrated leaaershiP. as well·as scholarship, character ond career goals wm be con- Sldered'ln the committee \S'se- lection_ Candidates must be United States ci1izens. Better hurry. The deadline for accepting OPPIICO!IOnS end ncm1natJons 1s.Februory 28 It-'ll tol<e ten mmutes to p1ck up the forms- and jusi 1t11nk what1t m1ght getyouf Call for Papers for THE UNION COLLEGE UNDERGRADUATE REVIEW OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES --All Humanity and Social Science Topics Considered · -- Foreign Language Papers EAcouraged · -- Distributed at Seven North-East Colleges SO WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO LOSE? SUBMIT THAT \A' PAPER! Looks great on your Resume, and it would make your parents proud!! All submisions must be original unpublished work of the author accompanied by full references. The Editor's decision is fit~al. Deadline: Friday, 26 January 1990 Submit to: Melissa Bloom, Box 260, Union College PIZZA & DELI SUBS Free Delivery 370-2400 Don't let t1me run out -on you I Come use our Rambows or our Macintoshes The cho1ce 15 up to you Start the Nmet1es off t'\lght' Do all of your pJpers 1n th.e CHU::- room located 1~ the bBso:-:nt-nt c>f Humanit1.:s Our teaching ass1sti:lnt5 c:an even print one copy of your document for free on our laser printer Come VISit the CHUC roo·m th1s term you'll be gl.od that you d1<d ' NEW YORK STATE HEALTH SERVICE CORPS SCHOLARSHIPS Professional Study Registered Nursing • Physical Therapy • Occupational Therapy Physician's Assistant • Speech-Language Pathology Dental Hygiene., Pharmacy • Nurse Midwifery • Nurse Practitioner Academic Year 1990-1991 • The New York State Department of Health administers the State Health Service Corps to provide criticall:Y needed professi<Jnals in state facilities operated by the Office of Mental Health (OMH), Office of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities (OMRDD) and the Department of Correctional Services as well as eligible not-for-profit agencies that serve the mentally ill, the developmentally disabled, the medically indigent 31ld Medicaid elig.ibilc. the HIV /AIDS population and the blind and visually handicapped. • Scholarships of up to $15,000 per year for two years are available to cover the cost of attendance at an approved educational institution. The cost of attendance lncludes tuition and required education fees, f()om and board, books and transportation allowances. •Recipients of scholarship awards must agree to work in a state-operated facility or participatin;g not-for-prolll agency for a period of 18 months for each year of scholarship. Employment will be in a professional cap<~city at prevail in;g salaries offered by the participating agencies. Employment opportunities are available in all regions of the state. Candidates Must: • be a U.S. citizen or qualifying noncitizen; • be a legal resident of New York State or be attending a school in New York State; • be enrolled, accepted or applied for full·tirne study in a program approved by the State Education Depar1mC'Til at the t imc of application; • be witnin 24 months of completion of professional training and meet eligibility requirements for licensure Gr certification; • submit applications postmarked no later than February 12, 1990. Awards are Cf)mpetitive based on academic perfonllance, previous work experience and a demonstrated int-erest in worl•ing with the special populations. F'OR SCHOLARSHIP APPLICATIONS AND INFORMATION, '-\R1TE: N cw York State Health Service Corps .NYS Department of Health Coming, Tower- Room 1602, Empire State Plat.a Albany, New York 12237-0053 Fa~ulty John M. Essigmann James G. Fox Steven R. Tannenbaum William G. Thilly Gerald N. Wogan Helmut Zarbl Area of Interest DNA Repair and mutageraesis Gastrointestinal microflor.a &. endogenous carcinogens Chemical of macromolecwlar adducts; nitric oxide Mutational :;pectra; mecbrudsms & genetic epidemiology DNA adducts & genetic cl1ange in carcinogenesis 'lfansformatiort effector ~ suppressor genesy oncofiettes; gene expression Molecular, Cll\m~t'll'J A ,Genetie · Aaalysis ; of tht ·Clt~emi¢ai•Bit:l · Full support (stipend and tuition) is offered to all accepted candidates. For program information and an a])plication, CONTACT: Debra A. Luchanin, Academic Administrator) Division of Toxicology, Room 16-330, M.I.T., Cambridge, MA 02139, (617) 253-5804. : Interaction'S · Reblted to Can~er A . eueUc D·tseue MIT is an Equal Opportunity Employer. Whitaker Colle,se o·fHeAlth Sciences and Technology .. · .- .. :'~Ai:i:a.+a. n-..«f<afi'l. :,.,. IT1t'~ii:V:ii·H·'I<lnttv . ·,~· ··.· ·· ·=-~'ilia\l'W-~-'·E~Wr\\-~:(~':~}lV~~~Y£i¥'- I. ·

CONCORDJENSIS, January 18, 1990 <llnnrorhtrnsis ----- Fountled at Union College 1877----- In Search- Of Self- D - . . etermination 'Tile events of eastern Europe are proving every da.ythat self-determination will ultimately yield the m()st effective and most desirable courses of a.c tion.. After a certain point, people will have earned the right for and subsequently demand fTeedom from authoritarian rule. It happened to the Roman Empire and it happened to the British Ernpjre. Without careful precaution, the United Statest action in Panama could follow a similar pa.th. The United States went to Panama with the sole intention, noble as it was, to remove the good Ge11eral Noriega and his oppressive regime before fwther damage, international or domestic, cotrld be done. That first objective was achieved, yet tempers are still high in the region and American soldiers are still there. We did the Panamanians and the wo~ld a favor by removing Noriega, now we should remove ourselves. He might not get it right immediately, but President Guillermo Endara needs to· establish tile new government as his own. The United St£ttes, of all countries, should understand this because our Founding Fathers similarly faced an uncertain future. It took them thirteen years to arrive at an agreeable system, but we think it was w&rth the wait. As students of Union College we feel that we have earned the right to determine or at least to IJarticipate in the policy making process that affects the student body. The people of eastern Europe mi_ght not be making all the right decisions and it me~.y be some time before the people of Panama are fre-e to make their own decisions, but there is no d()ubt that they are struggling for the right to do so. lie.re we are in an idyllic institution in the country tll£tt is the champion of freedom and democracy ar()und the world, and yet we face similar struggles for self-determination. The recently implemented social policy e;xemplifies the struggle we face. The mere introduction of such a policy was to be expected, lmt the manner by which it was effected was not so acceptable. In light of the change in New York State law, a complimentary reaction from the C()Uege was inevitable. However, the State law was not enacted overnight, but some elements of tile social policy apparently were. If the new social policy, taken in its entirety, had teen in the works for some time, then why did the stttdents not hear about it until after it had been itu.talled? According to the November 9 articl~ in Concordiensis, a social policy was pendtng approvaL The article made no mention of individ?al accountability for a .social event. Yet, the soctal })()]icy as it stands today specifically requires that ' 1 ()1lly individuals over 21 may sponsor an event at which alcohol is served,\ therefore making such a s_IJonsor solely responsible for any mishap. Whether the policy and all its ramifications are ,fa-vorable or not is a separate issue. But the fact that fhe policy was first introduced at the end. of F~l term at a time when students are preoccupied w1th eJCatclnations, and that it was enacted with limited s.tudent involvement is disturbing. Maybe we should not be so surprised. by the Administration's unilateral decision. Gel-ttme and the academic cal en dar are prominent examples of pH:Plicies that were also made in just such a manner. LETTERS Entertained Alum To the Editors: Before me lie four consecutive printings of Concordiensis. In each are letters addressed to tbe editors of Concol'diensis which attack from drastically different views the issue of sexual preference. I visited my alma matter this past weekend to find a hole in the Nott, steam spewing from the same old places, and graffiti from years past still displaying their cruel slogans. 'I saw many friends. I saw them at A.D., at Slg Phi, and some in the Gardens. I did not see any professors or administrators. When I read an account of \fraternity behavior\ from a profes-sor or administrator I ignore it. Simply, they have no clue what goes on behind the closed doors of any fraternity. Nor do any independents know what constitutes a fraternal bond, so cast those remarks aside as worthless. So for those who read blindly the words of these experts ... you just don't know. I'm sick of being told what fratemities .are like. I, !lOr my fraternity peers should accept J'rofe~sor LaBoMe~srequest for ••cleaning up (:)Ur act.\ He knows nothi11g. Nor did Carl te)Xesent a fraternity, view. He represented his own view which he is allowed to do. But for God's. sake, sex is private. I don't want to see two, three, maybe five, men, women, dogs or anyone having sex, nor d<> I care fer the sexual preferences of anyone to be rammed down my throat. KEEP IT TO YOURSELF. If that means keeping it in the closet, then in the closet you go. I don~t write articles about my heterosexual activity or beliefs, nor do I defe11d them. I keep them to myself, as you, Carl, you, Edgar, you, Professor LaB()nne, aad you, Professor Shapiro and all the others that felt the need to speak out for or agai11st a particular preference should. \Homophobes keep gays in closet\-- that is because that ·is where they belong, behind closed doors.. That is where aU ~exual activity belongs, period. Hey! Did yott know that it is \still not too late to join the Gay, Lesbian, and Bi-sexual Alliance?\ I wonder, are they still taking applications? Now, all we need is a gr-oup of celibate people to take a stand for their rights. I wish everyone would plead the fifth. Sure, Mark. that is quite a contradictory· statement, listen to you talk. Someone needs to tell everyone to shut up. There are· fat more important things to concern· yourself with than the sexual rights of people. Union has lost its adminis·tration (President Morris is get~ing out at the nick of time). Union has lost its tradition and its pride, and has. replaced it with the GLBA. SPAA, BLAS, JSU, the this and the that. Good Luck. Union. Apologetically, Mark Haughton '89 Keep Your Future Alive .I This letter was sent to 1 ,000 universities across the country to heighten student awareness. To the Editors: You have plans for your life - goals to reach - a brilliant future ... So did Linda Lancaster, a doctoral candidate at the University of Maine, Orono, Maine. On February 18, 1989, the drunken driver of a pickup truck struck her down as she and a classmate walked along a sidewalk in the campus community. Linda died three hours later. All her goals and plans for the future were wiped out in one senseless moment of drunken violence - a violence our legislatures have yet to recognize as murder - and our courts of law waiver over justice for the victim. You have plans for your life - but, take a moment as you walk across campus to ponder on your chances of becoming the random victim of a drunken driver. We all carry the same risk, as did Linda. But with your help we can - and must - keep our streets and sidewalks ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUl3LE SPACED, AND SUBMI'I'l'ED TO THE CONCORDJENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDlENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVERF1VEHUNDRED WORDS WTI.,L NOT BE ACCEPTED. safe. Take a stand. Refuse to ride with an intoxicated driver. Vollmteer to drive a friend who has partied too much. Write your congressman to initiate deterrent legislation against killer drivers: no time off for good behavior - no suspending - half a sentence - no plea bar!laining. Do something positive, if not for yourself or for a friend, then for someone who loves you. Keep your future alive! Sincerely, Russell and Eleanor Nicholson Parents. of Linda Lancaster .. 1

Page 12 (~ONCORDlENSIS, January 18, 1990 (ltllttfllrbirnsts LETTERS -----Founded at Union College 1877--- Entertained Alum In Search- Of Self- Determination The events of eastern Europe are proving every day that self-determination will ultimately yield the most effective and most desirable courses of action. After a certain point, people will have earned the right for and subsequently demand freedom from authoritarian rule. It happened to the Roman Empire and it happened to the British Empire. Without careful precaution, the United States' action in Panama could folLow a similar patil. The United States went to Panama with the sole intention, noble as it was. to remove the good General Noriega and his oppressive regime before f11rthcr damage. international or domestic. could be doflc. That first objective \\·as achieved, yet tempers are still high in the region and American soldiers are still there. To the Editors: Before me lie four consecutive printings of Concordiensis. In each are letters addressed to the editors of Concordiensis which attack from drast!ca1ly different views the issue of sexual preference. I vis.ited my alma matter this past weekend to find a hole in the Nott, steam spewing from the same old places, aRd gt:affiti from years past still displaying their cruel slogans. I saw many friends. I saw them at A.D., at Sig Phi, and some in the Gardens. I did not see any professors or administrators. When I read an account of \fraternity behavior\ from a pf()fessor or administrator I ignore it. Simply, they have no clue what goes on behind the closed doors of anv fraternity. Nor do :my indepcndcn ts know what constitutes a fraternal bond, so cast those remarks aside as worthless. So for those who read blindly the words of these experts ... you just don't know. I'm sick of being told what fraternities are like. I, nor my fraternity :peers should accept Professcr LaBonne's request for \cleaning up our act.\ He knows nothing. Nor did Carl represent a fraternity view. He represented his own view which he is allowed to do, But for God's sake, sex is private. I don't want to see two, three. maybe five, meFl, women, dogs or anyone having sex, nor do I care for the sexual preferences of anyone to be rammed down my throat. KEEP IT TO YOURSELF. If tbat means keeping it in the closet, then in the closet you go. I dmt't write articles about my heterosexual activity or beliefs, nor do I defend them. I keep them to rnyself, as you, Carl, you, Edgar, you, Professor LaBonnc, and you, Professor Shapiro and all the others that felt the need to speak out for or against a particular preference should. \Homophobes keep gays in closet\-- that is because that is where they belong, behind closed doors. That is where all sexual activi,ty belongs, period. Hey! Did you know that it is \still not too late to join the Gay, Lesbian, and Bi-sexual Alliance?\ I wonder, are they still taking applications? Now, a1Jl we need is a .group of celibate people to take a stand for their rights. I wish everyone would plead the fifth. Sure, Mark, that is quite a ·contradictory statement, listen to you talk. Someone needs to tell everyone to shut up. There are far more important things to concern yourself with than the sexual rights of people. Union has lost its administration (President Morris is getting out at the nick of time). Union has lost its tradition and its pride, and has replaced it with the GLBA, SPAA, BLAS, JSU, the this and the that. Good Luck, Union. Apologetically, Mark Haughton '89 We did the Panamanians and the world a favor by removing Noriega, now we should remove ourselves. He might not get it right immediately, but President Guillermo Endara needs to establish the new government as his own. The United States, of all countries, should understand this because our Founding Fathers similarly faced an uncertain future. It took them thirteen years to arrive at an agreeable system, but we think it was. worth the wait. Keep Your Future Alive As students of Union College we feel that we have earned the right to determine or at least to participate in the policy making process that affects the student body. The people of eastern Europe m:ight not be making all the right decisions and it may be some time before the people of Panama are free to make their own decisions, but there is no doubt that they are struggling for the right to do so. Here we are in an idyllic institution in the country that is the champion of freedom and democracy amund the world, and yet we face similar struggles for self-determination. The recently implemented social policy ex.emplifies the struggle we face. The mere in traduction of such a policy was to be expected, but the manner by which it was effected was not so acceptable. In light of the change in New York State law, a complimentary reaction from the College was inevitable. However, the State law was not enacted overnight, but some elements of the social policy apparently were. if the new social policy, taken in its entirety~ had been in the works for some time, then why did the students not hear about it until after it had been installed? According to the November 9 article in c .. ncordiensis, a social policy was pending approval. The article made no menti.<>n of individ~al accountability for a social event. Yet, the soctal policy as it stands today specifically requires that \only individuals over 21 may sponsor an event at which alcohol is served,\ therefore making such a sponsor solely responsible for any mishap. Whether the policy and all its ramifications are favorable or not is a separate issue. But the fact that the policy was first introduced at the end. of F~l term, at a time when students are preoccupted With examinations, and that it was enacted with limited stlldent involvement is disturbing. Y1avbc v.·c should not be so surprised hy the l 1 :\ Jministralion\ unilateral decision. Gel-time and ii. ~. Or.: ~lGtd~:mic calendar arc rrominent examples of ~ 'J i This letter was sent to I ,000 universities acmss the country to heighten student awareness. To the Editors: You have plans for your life - goals to reach - a brilliant future ... So did Linda Lancaster, a doctoral candidate at the University of Maine, Orono, Maine. On February 18, 1989, the drunken driver of a pickup truck struck her down as she and a classmate walked along a sidewalk in the campus community. Linda died three hours later. All her goals and plans for the future were wiped out in one senseless moment of drunken violence - a violence our legislatures have yet to recognize as murder- and our courts of law waiver over justice for the victim. You have plans for your life - but, take a moment as you walk across campus to ponder on your chances of becoming the random victim of a drunken driver. We all carry the same risk, as did Linda. But with your help we can - and must - keep our streets and sidewalks ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFF1CE BY 4:00P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. safe. Take a stand. Refuse to ride with an intoxicated driver. Volunteer to drive a friend who has partied too much. Write your congressman to initiate deterrent legislation against killer drivers: no time off for good behavior- no suspending . half a sentence - no plea bargaining. Do something positive, if not for yourself or for a friend, then for someone who loves you. Keep your future alive! Sincerely, Russell and Eleanor Nicholson Parents of Linda Lancaster College Center. Union coJttege. C~9tt®•'4i4~nsis to the Intercol1egiaoo Press . 61551 Advertising 1elejlh()ne

\ CONCORDIENSJS, Janu(lry 18, 199...() Page 13 Union's Performance Stirs Onlooker To the Edioor; · l cannot1ell you b.ow thrilled I was December 9 to see tile beautifully coached team c;~f Union College play the guys from Dayton, and p~rform superbly - in spite of the loss. Fantastic! I say this after~ having watched Union teams for more than 60 years - I have seen the kid Richard Elder who. brQke his neck on Alexander field more than 60 years ago, and the people. like Lippitt, Dain, the Nitchmans, Semerad {that field goal against WiUiam$), Cavoli, and · so many others wh9 have gone from the football field to .socially valuable activities in the professions, schools, science, engineering, and politics. Certainly the 1989 team and Coach Bagnoli may be the very best that l.Jni,On bas fielded in more than 100 years, They have reached a peak in a rich tradition. . It is easy to understand why Williamstown· didn't want to continue or was it tbe ·other way around, even though those wimps gave Union one of its worst whippings (outside of .the Columbia tuneups of tl1e 1930s) at, as I recall. 65-6, back in the 1960s or 1950s. Anyway, while I reali~e the College has changed and is changing. and the families like- the Finnegans 1 the Landers, and. others to whom Union was a. tradition, are no longer the; source of the heart of it~ student body, I know that tbe:. new generations of student~ will ingest some of the great tradition and scholarly heritage:. and strengthen the college even more - as they benefit from its rich resources. This may be somewhat emotional expression of a longstanding affection for your College - I studied elsewhere - but the team yesterday filled me with pride I am sure thousands of alumni and friends felt as they saw the 1989 football team perform as well, if unsucce~sfully in that game. Those players will go on as Union graduates have done so often to be leaders in society, whether in developing successors to transistors, or becoming presidents of major corporations, m pursuing careers in law and medicine, as so many of their predecessors have done. Pierre Prepuce . . . ' ' ' ·~ . / ' . . . , . , - . ' ' . ·.~ ~ . _: . ' , 1 :. Columbia Urliv.~rsit}t · . · : ·: ··. . -· . · · :\ ·.··. · · ...... : ·. :· .. : >. \.' ' . ' . ' ' ' ' '\ ' - Graduate ·school of Architecture,· Planning, and Preservation ·Th· . •. ·S. ··h· . f· Dean of Admissions Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation 400Avery Hall Columbia University New Yotk, New York 10027 (212) 854-3510 .·e .· apeo Two Cities.: NewYork/Pa·ris Special Undergraduate Program A junior year introduction to architecture. urban planning, and historic preservation for students who :have completed their sophomore year at an accredited college or university. St!Udents spend the first semester in New York at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation and the second semester in Paris at Columbia's studio and classroom facility in the historic Marais district. The program offers a choice of academic terms: 1. Summer, 1990 in N191N York and Fall, 1990 in Paris. · 2. Fall, 1990 in New Vork and Spring, 1991 in Paris. Applications due Marcil! 15, 1990. Application forms and additional information may be obtained from: · Columbia University is an affirmative action/equal oppommrv institution With LETTERS Toys Give Joys To The E(litor, With the holi~ys behind us, I would like to thank those students who donated money to the Union Holiday Fund before the end of Fall Term. We collected 500 dollars; all of which was donated to the Schenectady Police fund. Toys for over 100 children were purchased with students' contributions. I would also like to thank Dean Mammola for his help in organizing the fund ralsmg effort. Special thanks go w Mrs. Angus, Mrs. Facenda, Andrew Seewald, and R. Reed Whidden f<>r their help in preparing the envelopes. Thanks again to those who donat~ to tile fund. You helped make the holidays a little better for 100 local children who otherwise might not have had much to expect at Christmas. Sincerely, Christos J. Nikolis, '90 Th-ank You St6 Nik To the Editor: Way to go, U! Prior to the start of final exams, under the leadership of Chris Nikolis, Union students responded to a student-initiated campaign to raise money for needy children in the Schenectady area by cont:ribu~ing $500 to the Toys for Tots and Big Brother-Big Sister campaign. This thoughtful generosity is especially noteworthy because it came at a time of great pressure and personal anxiety (or many students. Thanks to Chris - and the incomparable counter of funds received, R. Reed Whidden and Andrew Seewald. Union students came through once again. Congratulations on a job well done! J()seph L. Mammola Dean of Students Good Health and Happiness To the Editor: Many students have asked about Tom Christoper '89. Tom went to Sloane Kettering January 14 for the bone marrow transplant and expects to be there approximately six weeks. The address is: Sloane Kettering 1275 York Avenue New York, N.Y. 10029 Thanks, Sister Joan Vlan Elections for the new Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis · will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Deadline for Registration in Mrs. Marra's office is Feb. 2 Anyone and everyone is welcome and encouraged to participate in the elections. i New ~N vou can even do this: J ~. Madntosh~romputers have almysbeen easy to use. But they've never Open... 000 Close been this easy to own. Presenting.'Ihe Macintosh Sale. . · 'IhroughJanuary 31, you can ~ave hundreclsofdollars on a vanety of Apple\ Madntosh con1puters and pelipherals. So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With 1he Madntosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer. · Without spending a lot more 1noney. Print... ~P ~ .................................................. ,, ...........• Quit •• The Macintosh Sale; Now tl11uughjanuary 31. Union Collc~e Bookstore college Center

CONCORDIENSIS, January 1.8, 1990 Page 13 Union's Performance Stirs Onlooker To the ~dit0r: I cannot tell you how thrilled I was December 9 to see the beautifuUy coached team of Union CoUege play the guys from Dayton, and perform superbly - in spite of the loss. Fantastic! I say this after having watched Union teams for more than 60 years - I have seen the kid Richard Elder who broke his neck on Alexander field more than 60 years ago, and the people like Lippitt, Dain, the Nitchmans, Semerad (that field goal against Williams), Cavoli, and so many others who have gone from the football field to socially valuable activities in the professions, schools, science, engineering, and politics. Certainly the 1989 team and Coach Bagnoli rnay be the very best that Unioll has fielded in more than ]()0 years. They have reachedi a peak in a rich tradition. It is easy to understand why Williamstown didn't want t& ccmtinue or was it the other way around, even though those wimps gave Union. one ·Of its worst whippings {outside of the Columbia tuneups of the 1930s) at, as I recall, 65-6, back in the 1~60s or 1950s. Anyway, while I realize the College has cl1anged and is changing, ami the families like the Finnegans, the Landers, and others to wllom Union. was a tradition, are no longer the source of the heart of its student body. I know that the new generations of students will ingest some of the great tradition and scholarly heritage and .strengthen the college even more - as they .benefit from its rich resources. This may be somewllat emotional expression of a longstanding affection for your College - I studied elsewhere - but the team yesterday fined me wi,th pride l am sure thousands of alumni and friends felt as they saw the 1 ~89 football! team perform as well, if unsuccessfully in that game. Those players will go on as Union graduates have done so often to be leaders in society, whether i11 developing successors to Lransistors, or becoming presidents of major corporations, or pursuing careers in law and medicine. as so many of their predecessors have done. Pierre Prepuce Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation Th Sh f Dean of Admissions Graduate School of Architecture. Planning, and Preservat1on 400 Avery Hall Columbia Un1vers1ty New York. New York 10027 (2121 854-3510 · e apeo · Two Cities: New York/Paris Specja/ Undergraduate Program A junior year introduction to architecture, urban planning, and historic preservation for students who have completed their sophomore year at an accredited college or university. Students spend the first semester in New York at the Graduate School of Architecture, Planning, and Preservation and the second semester in Paris at Columbia's studio and classroom facility in the historic Mara1s district The prGgram offers a choice of academic terms: 1. Summer, 1990 in Nevv York and Fall, 1990 in Paris. 2. Fall6 1990 in Nevv York and Spring, 1991 in Paris. Applications due March 15. 1990. Appl1cation forms and add1t10nal information may be obtamed from With LETTERS Toys Give Joys To The Editor, With the llolidays behind us, I would lik~ to thank those students who d<Jnated money to the Union Holi<lay Fund before the end of Fal:l Term. We collected 500 doUars; all of which was donated to the Schelilectady Police fund. Toys for over 100 chi:ldren were purchased with students' contributions. I would also like to thank Dean Mammola for his help in organizing the fund ralSlng effort. Special thanks go to Mrs. An.gas, Mrs. Facenda, Andrew Seewald, and R. Reed Whidden for their help in preparing the eAvelopes. Thanks again to those who donated to the fund. You helped make the holidays a little better for 1 0() local children who otherwise might not have had much to expect at Christmas. Sincerely, Christos J. Nikolis, '90 Thank You St. Nik To the Editor: Way to go, U! Prior to the start of final e:xams, under the leadership of Chris Nikolis, Union students responded to a student-initiated campaign to raise money for meedy children in the Schcw~c tady area by contributing SSDO to the Toys for Tots and Bi,g Brother-Big Sister campaign. This thoughtful generosity is especially noteworthy because it came at a time of great pressure and personal anxiety for many students. Thanks to Chris - and the incomparabk counter nf funds received, R. Reed Whidden and Andrt'V.. Sccwaki, U ninn studl'nt...; Gllllt' through \l!ICl' agJln Congratulation..; o11 a job wdl done! Joseph L. Mammola Dean of StudenL<> Good Health and Happiness To the Editor: Many students have asked about Tom Christoper '89. Tom went to Sloane Kettering Januiliy 14 for the bone marrow ttansplant and expects to be there approximately six weeks. The address is: Sloane Kettering 1275 York Avenue New York, N.Y. 10029 Thanks, Sister Joan Vlan Elections for the new Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Deadline for Registration in Mrs. Marra's office is Feb. 2 Anyone and everyone is welcome and encouraged to participate in the elections. New ~N Open... ~0 Close yo~~~~~~~~~qt!Qt?: been this easy to {)\Vll. Presenting n1e Macintosh Sale. Through january 31, you can save hundreds of doll.ars on a variety of Apple~ Macintosh computers and peripherals. So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer. Without spending a lot more money. ~p ........................................................ Quit ~Q ' •• The Maci11tosh Sale. ~ow thuugh.J;muary .11 t:nlnn Colle~<' Jl,ml-.,!IHc Colkge Ct·ntt··· ·• \

'· Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, January ~8, 1990 S·CIENCE & TECHNOLOGY From the World of Science ••• By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Use of Jarvik. Heart Halted The food and Drug Administration withdrew its approval of the experimental use of the Jarvik heart last week because of suspected deficiencies in its manufacture. However. a spokesman for Symbion Inc., makers of the artificial heart, said the company stood by its product and would continue to sell the J arvik heart outside of the United States. Since the F.D.A. action was directed against manufacturing procedures, research work with the artificial heart will not be interfered with. The Jarvik gained national attention in 1982 when it was first implanted in a patient for permanent use. Afterwards, three more men received hearts for permanent usage. All four men have since died. Also, 150 patients have received Jarvik hearts to be used temporarily until they could obtain transplanted human hearts. The F.D.A. said approval was withdrawn for both permanent and temporary use because the lives of patients were endangered by poor manufacturing control. The Federal agency also reported that Symbion failed to report :mverse effects, did not properly monitor research, and inadequately serviced equip men~ Lag in Reading and Writing Continues ·Despite .effor-ts to improve education throughout the last decade, the reading and writing skills of American students remain poor and inadequate, according to Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos, releasing ·the latest results of a national education assessment The bright spot of the National Assessment of Educational Progress was the noticeable improvement in reading skills of black and Hispanic students, Despite this progress thougb. a substantial gap remains between black and Hispanic levels of achievement and that of white students. Because of the poor results, the Education Secretary once again stressed the need for fuodamental change in the U.S. education process. Pesticides Debate Continues Trade organizations and farm policy makers proposals to make agricultural practices safer are likely to emerge as the most controversial debate in Congress over farm policy, The appe.arance of environmental issues in the farm policy debate reflects a recognition that Americans want food produced with fewer chemicals and additives. Because of the substantial improvement in the farm economy, Congress will devote more to environmental issues when writing the ne\.Y national farm policy. New rules are expected to center on reducing pollution of streams and water supplies from pesticides and fertilizers.. Various environmental organizations are expected to derna11d the restrictions of pesticide usage in general. President Bush said his intention was to introduce proposals that will balance the needs of farmers to use tcxic chemicals and the fears of Americans concerning incl'eaSed pollution and the amount of pesticides on food. Israeli Professors Doing Study A Union College psychology professor has teamed up with an Israeli psychologist in a three-year study on how people process words in reading under a $74,480 grant from the United States - Israel Binational Science Foundation. Seth Greenberg of Niskayuna, chairman of Union's Psychology Department. and Asher Koriat, a psychology professor at the University of Haifa in Israel, arc examining why people often miss letters such as the \t\ in the very common work \the\ when they are asked to find them in a t~xt. Greenberg and Koriat are trying to determine if the role of words like \the\ as functional units in a sentence rather than words that convey content or information is a factor in the overlooked-letter phenomenon. The research will be done in both English and Hebrew. The project is part of Greenberg's ongoing research on how people process words in reading. The latest foundation support is Greenberg's third major national or international grant- for this type of work. From 1983 to 1986, ite was a co-investigator under a grant from the National Institutes of Health with Frank Vellntino, a psychologist at th:e State University of New York at Albany, as principal investigator and Donna Scanlon of SUNY A as research associate. From 1982 to 1984, Greenberg and Velluti11o were the principal investigators under a grant from the Spencer Foundation of Chicago. ATTENTION: ALL Before you alfSed... . (Ia' For more i~nna~o .. n ~u~ h.u.mane alternatives ;fjt/J .. · · . ~rf to aruma! dissection m dassroorns, , u f l..-J · L/1, ·CALL TOLL-FREE • DJSSECIIO!V INFOR!Ul10NHOTLINE 1·800·912-FROG (3764) A sttulent outreach project r:ifthe AniiTuiJ legtll Defense Ftind STUDENTS . . ., . - ' The Film Committee has provided a wider selection of newer and better movies this term. Obviously, these are not cheap; most movies cost $550- 800. Admission price, however, continues to be just one do·llar; yet ,many students choose to sneak into the theater without paying. This dishonesty is unsuitable and cannot be tolerated. If this pr.actice continues the Film Committee will be forced to cancel upcoming features. THE FILM COMMITTEE .DOES NOT MAKE A PROFIT OR BREAK EVE'N ON ANY MOVIE SHOWN. The Committee therefore asks that all students pay the $1 admission for each movie they attend

• Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Fr·om the World of Science ••• By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Use of Jarvik. Heart Halted The food and Drug Administration withdrew its approval of the experimental use of the Jarvik heart last week because of suspected deficiencies in its manufacture. However, a spokesmaa for Symbio11 Inc., makers of the artificial heart, said the company stood by its product and wou.ld continue to sell the Jarvik heart outside of the United States. Since the F.D.A. action was directed against mmmfacturing procedures, research work with the artificial heart will not be interfered with. The Jarvik gained 11ational attention in 1982 ....,hen it was first implanted in a patient for permanent usc. Afterwards, three more men received hearts for permanent usage. All four men have since died. Also, 150 patients have received Jarvik hearts to be used temporarily until they could obtain transplanted human hearts. The F.D.A. said approval was withdrawn for both permanent and temporary usc because Lhe lives of patients were endangered by poor manufacturing controL The Federal agency also reported that Symbion failed to report adverse effects, did not pvoperly monitor research, and inadequately serviced equipment. Lag in Reading and Writing Continues Despite efforts to improve education throughout the last decade, the reading and writing skills of American students remain poor and inadequate, according to Education Secretary Lauro Cavazos, releasing the latest results of a national education assessment The bright spot of the National Assessment of Educational Progress was the noticeable improvement in reading skills of black and Hispanic students. Despite this progress though, a substantial gap remains between black and Hispanic levels of achievement and that of white students. Because of the poor results, the Education Secretary once again stressed the need for fundamental change in the U.S. education process. Pesticides Debate Continues Trade organizations and fann policy makers proposals to make agricultural practices safer are likely to emerge as the most controversial debate in Congress over farm poHcy. The appearance of environmental issues in the farm policy debate reflects a recognition that Americans want food produced with fewer chemicals and additives. Because of the substantial improvement in the farm economy, Congress will devote more to environmental issues when writing the new national farm policy. New rules are expected to center on reducing pollution of streams and water supplies from pesticides and fertilizers. Various environmental organizations are expected to demand the restrictions of pesticide usage in general. President Bush said his intention was to introduce proposals that will balance the needs of farmers to use toxic chemicals and the fears of Americans concerning increased pollution and the amount of pesticides on food. Israeli Professors Doing Study A Union College psychology professor has teamed up with an Israeli psychol<>gist in a three-year study on how people process words in reading under a $74,480 grant from the United States · Israel Binational Science Foundation. Seth Greenberg of Niskayuna, chairman of Union's Psychology Department, and Asher Koriat, a psych.ology professor at the University of Haifa in Israel, arc examining why people often miss letters such as the \t\ in the very common work \the\ when they are asked to find them in a text. Greenberg and Koriat are trying to detennine if the role of words like \the\ as functional units in a sentence rather than words that convey content or infonnation is a factor in the overlooked -letter phenomenon. The research will be done in both English and Hebrew. The project is part of Greenberg's ongoing research on how people process words in rcadi ng. The latest foundation support is Greenberg's third major national or international grant· for this type of work. From 1983 to 1986, he was a co-investigator under a grant from the National Institutes of Health with Frank Vellutino, a psychologist at the State University of New York at Albany, as principal investigator and Donna Scanlon of SUNY A as research associate. From 1982 to 1984, Greenberg and Vellutino were the principal investigators under a grant from the Spencer Foundation of Chicago. Bef9reypu to aruma! dissection m dassrooms. • e , 1 CUI. TOU-FRE:E . DISSECTION INFORMATION HO'OJNE 1·800·912-FROG (3764) A student outreach project oftht! Anmud /.ega( !Jejii'TlSe Ftmd \' ' ~ ,. . ... - ' - . . ' . . ' ' . ' . ' . . . ' . '. . . .. ·. ' . - . . ' . ATTENTION: ALL STUDENTS The Film Committee has provided a wider selection of newer and better movies this term. Obviously, these are not cheap; most movies cost $550- 800. Admission price, however, continues to be just one dollar; yet many students choose to sneak into the theater without paying. This dishonesty is unsuitable and cannot be tolerated. If this practice continues the Film Committee will be forced to cancel upcoming features. THE FILM COMMITTEE DOES NOT MAKE A PROFIT OR BREAK EVEN ON ANY MOVIE SHOWN. The Committee therefore asks that all students pay the $1 admission for each movie they attend

CONCORDIENSIS, Jtmuary 18, 1990 SC,IENCE & TECHNOLOGY - Irreplaceable Archeolo · ical Documents· Come to light at the New ork State Museum One of the nation's finest archeolo-gical specimens artifacts to provide many ~re froiTI important archeological collections will be representing the 10,000-year interpretations of the past. archeol()gical sites in New more accessible to scholars and pr~history of the state. and Once you excavate a si~e it can York S~te, inducling sites on researchers thanks to a grant contains an e.stimated one never be dug again. All that the State and National recently awarded to The New million items. 'Included are remains for future generations Registers ofHistcric Places. York State Museum by the original field notes, maps, to study are the records kept by This is the sec<Jml of a three National Science Foundaton. photos, and analytical records the field archeologists,\ says phase program to increase The Museum received $92,325 ofarcheologialexcav:ations and the proJect's principal accessi~ility of the Museum's from NSF tG inventory, notable anthropologists who investigator, Dr. Lynne P. coliectiom. NSF alw funded the organize, asse.ss, and have worked at the State Sullivan of The New York first ph~ of the project during computerize rare and historic Museum. in.cluding Lewis State Museum, \The field which ancstimatecl one million documents vital tothe:artifacts Henry Morgan, the founder of notes, maps, diagrams and artifacts and spedmens in the in the Museum's archeologial American Anthropology, Other documents in the collections were inventoried collections. · Arthur C. Parker, the first collectit>n represent decades of and colllputerized~ Phase 3 will The National Science State Archeologist, and work by archeologists. Lack of upgrade storage,c(}nditions and Foundation annually 3VIIards William A. Ritchie, recipient organization has restricted their stabHize those materials in - almost $1 million to research of the Society for American use and resem:ch value. This greatest Ileed of c<Jnservation. institutions across the country Archeology'~ Distinguished project will make these Musel!m arclleclogist and for projects, to improve Service Award. These materials invaluable records accessible to curator CJf the c()Uection, Dr. anthropological collections. provide the primary data used scho\ars and students of Lynne :Sallivan will direct the The M~um'saw,ard represents in ry~e;u:cb by S<;holars: of New prehistory.\ project Edward Curtin, Ph.D. a signific'\fit grant against stiff York State and North Amerian Many of the specimens in candid~te at SUNY- .competition. . prehistory. the archeologial collections Binghamton, is the project The New York State \Modern archeology depends were used to define the basic supervif>OI', assisted by Robin Museum has the most equally on records of chronological sequence for New Malone)~, a gradllate of the e:~C.tensive coUection of ~;xcavations as well as on York State prehistory, and University of Massachusetts at Amherst. The New York State Museum is one of the oldest museums in the nation, tracing its origins to an era when the Smithsonian had not yet been conceived and the American Msueum of Natural History :Jay a full generation in the future. During the past century and a half the Museum has fostered some of America's leading scientists, including the founders of American paleontology, ethnology. botany and mycology. It collections totalling over 4-1/2 million specimens are considered to be significant , research toots by sci en tiests throughout the wor1d. Today, 45 specialists are engaged in a wide variety of critical inquires in archeology, botany, geology, history, paleontology and zoology. Landslide Dangers Outnned in Publication from the New York State Museum The Graduate School of Health Sciences at the Albany Medical Center seeks applicants motivated towards a career in BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH. The Graduate School provides a solid fOundation 'in \the 'ha~ic science disciplines leading to a Doctor of Philosophy or a Master of Science Degree. Other Programs - M.S. Nurse Anesthesiology, M.D./Ph.D programs and interdisciplinary Ph.b. training programs in Cardiovascular Diseases and Neuroscience. Financial Aid - Full tuition scholarships and stipends are available for successful Doctoral applicants. Other financial assistance may be arranged with individual departments or the School 1 s Financial Aid Office. · Requirements - Admission to the Graduate School is limited to students who successfully completed Bachelor/ s degree requirements and demonstrate excellent scholastic achievement All applicants are required to take the Graduate Record Examination. How Th Apply- Send ill.inquiries and requests for application to: ALBANY MEDICAL CENTF;R GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HEALTH SCIENCES 47 New Scotland Avenue, A-10 Albany, New York 12208 ALBANYMEDICALCENTER (518) 445-5253 Seventeen people died when ·tons of rock and earth swept away nine homes on Hill Street in Troy in a disastrous landslide during the winter of 1&43. More than a century later, the city of Albany almost lost its entire water supply when the collapse of rain-soaked landfill threatened the main pipleine in June 1982. Although separated by both time and distance, these two landslides are among several hundred that have occurred throughout the Capital Region. Landslides are a fact of life in the Capital Region and throughout New Ymk State. But public and official awareness of them is practically non-existent. The Landslide Inventory Map of New YQrk, just issued by the Geological Survey of The New York Statge Museum, brings together for the first time information on all recorded · - landslides and rockslides from Niagara to the Hudson Valley. The publication gives homeowners, developers, contractors, and local officals important information on potential landslide hazm:ds in their areas. The Geological Survey of the New York State Museum produced the map in cooperation witb .a nationwide landslide hazard reduction progra!T1 of the U.S. Geologic<tl Slli'Vey. The l~11dslide h1ventory Map, b:y Robert Fickies of The Geoh_gical Survey of The New York State Museum and Earl E. Brabb of the U.S. Geological Survey, is aV;ailable in 4 x 4.5 foot fold-out map format. Individual landslides as well as areas ()f namerous occurrertces are indicated. Newspaper accounts of landslide disasters from the early 19th througll tlte 20th century (printed in the margins of the map) reveal tb.e human story behind tlte scientific oota. A complete· bibli()graphy of landslide ha-zards and occurrenc:es in New York State is included. To obtain a copy. send a check for .$4, payable to New- York State Museum Publicati(}ns, to l'llblications Sales. Tile New York State Museum.,, 3140 Cultural Education Center, Albany, NY 12230. . SpeciaJizing in hazards geology, Fickies has researched the problems of landslides througho11t the state. The Museum keeps rec:ords of all reportedlandslides in open files which ai'e accessible to tbe public. Inquiries can be sent to Fickies at The New York State Museum, Research and Collections, Room 3162, CEC, Empire State · PI~~:za, Albany, NY 12230. The New York State Museum has been one of the nation's important research institutions since its inception in 1836.. Museum scholars have pioneered the investigation of New York's natural resources and generated seminal research and publications in scientific fields ranging from archeology to zoology. . During the past century and a half, the Museum has fostered some of America's leading scientists, including the founders of American paleontology, ethnology, botany, and nycology. Its collections totalling over 4-l/2 million specimens are considered tp be significant research tools by scientists throughout the world. Today, more than 25 professional seismologists, botanists, entomologistgs, geochemists, paleontologists, environmental biologists, engineering geologists, and other psecialists are engaged in a wide variety of critical inquiries into the state's natural resources. BIOLOGY STUDENT. RESEARCH REPORTS MIKE MARTINEZ- The Effect of Trichinella spirialis on Eosinophiles CHARLENE SCHWEDER - Analysis of Human Menopausal Gonadotropin-Therapy for the Infertile Couple MELISSA STEWART- Sex Chromosome Abnormalities in Humans SARAH WILCOX -Antibody Formation to Gonadotropin in Rats Thursday, Jan. 25, 1990- 4:40p.m. Social Sciences Room 112 Refreshments 4:30 ·-

CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Irreplaceable Archeolo ical Documents Come to light at the New ork State Museum One of the nation's finest archeological collections will be more accessible to scholars and researchers thanks to a grant recently awarded to The New York State Museum by the National Science Foundaton. The Museum received $92,325 from NSF to inventory, organize, assess, and computerize rare and historic documents vital to the artifacts in the Museum's archeologial collections. The National Science Foundation annually awards almost $1 million to research institutions across the country for projects to improve anthropological collections. The Museum's award represents a significant grant against stiff competition. The New York State Museum has the most extensive collection of archeological specimens representing the 10,000-:yea.r prehistory of the state aild contains all estimated one miflion items. Included lll!e original field notes, maps, photos, and analytical records of archeologial excavations ai!Cl notable amtuopologis~s -wl1o have worked at the S tll.le Museum, including Lewis Henry Morgan, the founder of American AnthropoJ,()g.y. Arthur C. Parker, the fint State Archeologist, .and William A. Ritchie, recip-ient of the Society for Americ~fl Archeology's Distinguis heel Service Award. These matemls provide the primary data used in research lly scholars of New York State and North Amenm. prehistory. \Modem archeology depen-ds equally on records (Jf excavations as well as on The Graduate School of Health Sciences at the Albany Medical Center seeks applicants motivated towards a career in BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH. The Graduate School provides a s<Jlid foundation in the basic science disciplines leading to a Doctor of Philosophy or a Master of Science Degree. Other Pr<Jgrams - M.S. Nurse Anesthesiology, M.D./Ph.Dprograms and interdisciplinary Ph.D. training programs in Cardiovascular Diseases and Neuroscience. Financial Aid - Full tuition scholarships and stipends rre available for successful Doctoral applicants. Other financial assistance may be arranged with individual departments {)r\ the School's Financial Aid Office. Requirements - Admission to the Gradaate School is limited to students who successfully completed Bachelor's degree requirements and demonstrate excellent scholastic achievement. All applicants are required to take the Graduate Record Examination. How To Apply - Send all inquiries and requests for application to: ALBANY MEDICAL CENTER GRADUATE SCHOOL OF HEALTH SCIENCES 47 New Scotland Avenue, A-10 Albany, New York 12208 ALBANYMED!CALCENTER (518) 445-5253 An Equal Opportunity/ Affirmative Action Institution M/FIH artifacts to provide interpretations of the past. Once you excavate a site it can never be dug again. All that remains for future generations to study are the records kept by the field archeologists,\ says the project's principal investigator, Dr. Lynne P. Sullivan of The New York State Museum. \The field notes, maps, diagrams and other documents in the collection represent decades of work by archeologists. Lack of organization has restricted their use and research value. This project will make these invaluable records accessible to scholars and students of prehistory.\ Many of the specimens in the archeologial collections were used to define the basic chronological sequence for New York State prehistory, and many are from im portanl archeological sites in New York State, including sites on the State and Nati()nal Registers of Historic Places. This is the second of a !hree phase program to increase accessibility of the Musc\lm's collection. NSF also funded the first phase of the project dHring which an estimated one minion artifacts and specimens in the collections were inventoried and computerized. Phase 3 will upgrade srorage conditions and stabilize those materials in greatest need of conservation. Museum archeologist and curator of the collection, Dr. Lynne Sullivan will direct the project. Edward Curtin, Ph.D. candidate at SUNY- BinghamLGn, is the project supervisor, assisted by Robin Maloney, a graduate of the University of Massachusetts at Amherst The New York State\ Museum is one of lhc oldest museums in the nation, tracing its origins to an era when thc Smithsor1ian had not yet been conceived and the American Msucum of Natural History Jay a full generation ifl the future. During the past century m~d a half the Museum has fostered some of America's leading scientists, including the founders of American paleontology, ethnology. botany and mycology. It collections totalling over 4-1 (2 million specimefls are considered to be significant research tools by scienticsts throughout the world. Today, 45 specialists are engaged in a wide variety of critical inquires in archeology, botany. geology, history, paleontology and zoology. Landslide Dangers Outlined in Publication from the New York State Museum Seventeen people died when tons of rock and earth swept away nine homes on Hill Street in Troy in a disastrous landslide during the winter of 1843. More than a century later, the city of Albany almost lost its entire water supply when the collapse of rain-soaked landfill threatened the main pipleine in June 1982. Although separated by both time and distance, these two landsli4es are among several hundred that have occurred throughout the Capital Region. Landslides are a fact of life in the Capital Region and throughout New York State. But public and official awareness of them is practically non-existent. The Landslide Inventory Map of New York, just issued by the Geological Survey of The New York Statge Museum, brings together for the first time information on all recorded landslides and rockslides from Niagara to the Hudson Valley. The publication gives homeowners, developers, contractors, and local officals important information on potential landslide hazards in their areas. The Geological Survey of the New York State Museum produced the map in cooperation with a mltionwidc landslide hazard red uc ti on program of the U.S. Geological Survey. The Landslide hnentDry Map, by Robert Fickies of The Geological Survey of The New York State Museum and Earl E. Brabb of the U.S. Geological Survey, is a vailablc in 4 x 4.5 foot fold-out map format. Individual landslides as well as areas of numerous occurrences are indicated. Newspaper accounts of landslide disasters from the early 19th through the 20th century (printed in the margins of the map) reveal the human story behind the scientific data. A complete bibliography of landslide hazards and occurrences in New York Stale is included. To obtain a copy, send a check for $4, payable to New York State Museum Publications, to Publications Sales, The New York State Museum, 3140 Cultural Education Center, Albany, NY 12230. Specializing in hazards geology, Fickies has researched the problems of landslides throughout the state. The Museum keeps records of all reported landslides in open files which are accessible to the puhlic. Inquiries can be scm to Fickics at The New York SL1te Museum, Research and Collections, Room 3162, CEC, Empire State Plaza, Albany, NY 12230. The New York State Museum has been one of the nation's important research institutions since its inception in 1836. Museum scholars have pioneered the investigation of New York's natural resources and generated seminal research and publications in scientific fields ranging from archeology to zoology. During the past century and a half, tile Museum has fostered some of America's leading scientists, including the founden of American paleonHJlogy, ethnology, botany, and nycology. Its collections totalling over 4-1/2 million specimens arc considered to be significant resea:tdl tools by scientists throughout the world. Today, more than 25 professional seismologists, botanists, entomologistgs, geochemists, paleontologists, environmental biologists, engineering geologists, and other psecialists arc engaged in a wide variety of critical inquiries into the state's naLural resources. BIOLOGY STUDENT RESEARCH REPORTS MIKE MARTINEZ -The Effect of Trichinella spirialis on Eosinophiles CHARLENE SCHWEDER - Analysis of Human Menopausal Gonadotropin-Therapy for the Infertile Couple MELISSA STEWART- Sex Chromosome Abnormalities 1n Humans SARAH WILCOX- Antibody Formation to Gonadotropin 1n Rats Thursday, Jan. 25, 1990- 4:40p.m. Social Sciences Room 112 Refreshments 4:30 ·------- ---·------------

\' . ~ ' I'~\·\ ... ~ ·.}~)..,, , .... ~~ ... '~ '\'·.,,,•~ :' ·. )~l~~.:.,..-' Page 1() CONCORDIENSTS:J January 18, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Literary Corner Stay Out of Traffic, Potatohead Adaptive Re-Use: Getting to Kno,w Your College Center BY ERIK P. KRAFT When I was a youngster, there was this kid, Matthew, who lived across the street from me. My friend Thomas and I lived next door to each other, and it was kind of a hobby of 011rs to torment Matthew as much as humanly possible. We called him names like \Matthew Potatohead\ and other things equally blasphemo11s. Of course, Matthew didn't help things very much by being as equally demented as we were. To give an example, tile big thing that we always remember about Matthew was the time his mother callght him biding in the bushes in front of their house and sllouting obcenities at the passers-by. Smooth move, Pot.atohead. One warm summer day, Thomas and I cooked up what we believed to be just another one of our typical anti- Matthew Potatohead schemes. Little did we know lhe future repercussions our actions might have. On this day, our young minds decided that voodoo was the new craze and we'd give it a whirl. We gathered up all the necessary items-- sticks, string, and clay, and our own home grown voodoo incantations. We quickly pieced together what we felt to be the finest display of childhood voodoo ever Cooked up by stupid lcids. Once we had the tools, dolls modeled in a striking resemblance to our favorite potatohead, we had to find an application for them. After resolving that d~th by auto was quite fit for a potatohead, we hastily ran out to the street, and placed our crude, but ·effective, replicas of Matthew Potatohead in the direct line of traffic. To insure that they were thoroughly run over, Thomas and I covered them with leaves, so motorists would know nothing of our foul deed or the aid they were giving us. We sat and waited. After a few auto-free moments, fate dealt me a cruel hand: my mother called me to dinner. Reluctantly, I walked home, knowing that I would not see the demise of the evil Matthew Potatohead at the hands of high voodoo masters; no, I would only see brussell sprouts, but that is another evil that was dealt with at a later date. As I walked into my house, defeated and downtrodden~ I heard Thomas laughing hysterically. He ran through the door, into my kitchen and clenched in his Continued on Page 171 By JULIE MEDOW The Colleg~ Center is under siege by Lee Bloomrosen, the new direct()!.\ of student activities at Union. No-- he isn't taking hostages, nor is he walking arouad in fatigues. But he IS plotting some strategies in order to cbange the present apathy that seems to be looming in the upstairs comers of the College Center. Mr. Bloomrosen, a Union alumnus. fro.m the class of 1976, is a little distressed by the way everyone-- students, faculty, and administrators-- are treating the College Center. The problem is that no one is treating it to anything at all. \When it was brand new, everyone was afraid to touch it,\ says Bloomrosen about the recently renovated Carnegie, \but now that it's been broken in a little, I tllink we can begin to open it up to the community, and let the College Center live up to its description in the admissions booklet.\ In order to do this, Mr. Bloomrosen has been working on a number of projects, many of which are c:ultural events for the entire community to enjoy. The first of these events began last Wednesday when an architecture exhibit from the Smithsonian was brought to HOROSCOPES BY MADAME \X\ CAPRICORN: A new you is breaking through the shell you have created. It is time to let loose- and go crazy--what do you have to lose? AQUARIUS: Someone is to blame for the crabby attitude you have had during this past week. Take a b~re;ak from Union for a day and drive up to the mountains to breathe in the cold fresh air. You'll pr()bably feel a lot better! PISCES: Time is a commodity that should not be wasted. For those who ~e masters at procrastiination, it's time to take charge of your life .. .For seniors, go to the CDC today for just a moment to· break the fear you are b'rewing in your head about future endeavors .. ARIES: Romance is in your future, but be careful of Saturday night for it holds many changes in your miiid thoug!J.ts about someone you have been after. TAURUS: Maddening is the feeling that you are going nowhere fast ... so it's either time to slow down or get a grip on reality and stop fooling yourself. GEMINI: You are 11andling life pretty well and you seem rather content with tlle perfunctory duties of being a stmdent. In fact, life couldn't be better ... you're on an upswing--yoll're flying high, so enjoy it because you don't know how long it will last. CANCER: Work. work, work! Hey, give yourself a break--you're driving everyo11e around you, who cares about y:ou, crazy! Take an hour to think about why you put so much press~ on yourself. You'll be better off in the long run. LEO: A hot body is in dire need of your lustful desires. It's time to face the tmth about your needs ... only a vegetable can wait this long! VIRGO:: Stop talking about all those things you want to change in your life. I know you are climbing the walls because you want to get out of here soon, but there is. no reason why you can't find some oilier alternative to fulfill your needs - or lack thereof. LIBRAS: This weekend is going to be roagh on your body, so be careful where you sit and where yo:u stand for something may make matters worse. SCORPIOS: Your apathetic nature is starting to unravel. Quick--get a grip before it gets out of control. S:tatt by doing retarded facial expressions in the mirror. It worked for Fonzie. SAGITT'AR.IUS: My crystal ball tells me you have many pleasant surprises coming your way, such as a letter from someone you've been waiting to hear from. Social Alternatives UNlONCOI:..LEGE Hugh Allen Wilson: Chairman of the Arts Department and professor of music of Unhm College, will present elight recitals of organ masterwotds from 12:30 to 1:15 p.m. in the College's Memorial Chapel. Performances will be held on Jan. 31, Feb. 7, 14. 21, 28, and March 7 and 14. Judith Barr: Poet-Psychotherapist will give a dramatic presentation of her poetry. titled \The Sacred Period\ at 4:30p.m. Tuesday, Jan. 23, in Old Chapel. Movie: Die Elechtrommel/ The Tin Drum. A German Video film which is a parableof;modern society in violent irans.ition as narrated by Oskan a little boy, who at the age of three decides to stop growing. The rest is. left to be seen on Mo;nday, Jan. 29 at 7:30p.m. In CC406, PROCTOR;S . . 346-6204 . . Sat., Jan. 20, at 8 p.ni. is the Talented dancers of LES BALLETS TROCKADERO de MONTE CARLO. Call for tickets. Wed., Feb. 7 at 8 p.m. K.D. LANG AND THE RECLINES. CAll for tickets. EMPIRE CE:NTE:R at the EGG 465-9916 'Sat., Jan 20at 8 p.m., and on Sunday, Jan. 21 at 3 p.m.: Maude Baum and Company present works of modem dc;.nce, . . Union and dis.played throughout the Coltege Center. For the opening, Hugh Wilson arranged to have a few musicians play from the second floor balcony, and Lauren O'Connell, an art history professor at Union who specializes. in architecture, gave a tour of the exhibit. There were also receptions both before and after the tour, and if you 'had known abut the FREE FOOD you probably would have attended. (C'mon, who are you kidding? Free food is a very large motivational factor.) Anyway, the exhibition is entitled \Remaking America: New Usest·Old Places\ and is iactually very neat. There are 48 panels displayed on the second, third, and fourth floors of the College Center depicting buildings as .they were years ago, and showing what they look like now after undergoing major facelifts and interior gutting and reconstruction. One of my favorites is the Navarre in Denver, Colorado. Did you know that this respectable building, now the home .of the Museum of Western Art, was at one time a place where men gambled and where women ... heyE! Find out for yourself what women used to do in the upstairs rooms of the Navarre. I'm not here to see the exhibit for you. you know. This WRUC display of adaptive re-use will be here unti1 February 2, so while you ate taking a .study break, walk around· upstairs. You '11 definitely find the exhibit more interesti11g than your problem set This article is supposed to be about the Smithsonian exhibit and it is. But after speaking with Mr. Bloomrosen, I realized that this article should really be about the .adaptive re- use of the College Center itself. \People are ~lways complaining that there isn't enough space for things at Union. What are these rooms for?' If you would like to have display space, whether you need it for artisitc, historic, cultural, or scientific pwposes, only one floor or aU three ... it's yours.\ Mr. Bloomrosen is planning many interesting exhibits and activities for the college community (including exhibits about the Nott Memorial and the reconstruction of the College Center), but he can't do it all by himself. So, if you have any ideas, go hang out with him and discuss some stuff. Who knows? The pictures you took on your African safari (the ones of your younger sister in the jeep, etc.) could be the next exbibit I write about for the C oncordiensis. Pick-of-the Week BODIES ON THE WIND SCREEN With Ron Eugenio Your Music Director Listen in Wednesdays from 9-11:30 p.m. for new music miXed With Walt Whitman quips.

CONCORDIENSIS, Janullry 18, 1990 Page 17 ARTS & ENTER:TAINMENT Proctor's Too at the Nett Born on the F·ourth of July B.y OINA SCMWEITZEQ. Arts :Editor If you. are wondering \Why the Nott?\ - thete is a simple explanation. Recently, the area whlch Proctor's Too renovated · wa.s . _bought out and subsequently transformed into a c~ wash. With nowhere else to turn, the Mayor of Schenectady suggested the Nott and now Proctor's Too is coming to the Nott Memorial this week to present its third series of Alternative Theatre and Performance Art events. . Tile idea of a theatre company that would explore the Links bet:ween theatre and circtis techniques gave birth to · · LA TROUPE CIRCUS, which has since been re-inc.arnated as DYNA.MO· 'THEATRE; and this week the .season opens with Montreal's DYNAMO THEATRE in Mur-Mur. DYNAMO THEATRE provid.es a blend of aesthetics and athleticism. They are dancers. clowns, actors and acrobats. Mur•Mur (in English, Wall-Wall) chronicles the romances of two young couples in front of a towering brick wall Mur-Mur tells the story of a wall and' the people who mysteriously emerge from its bdcks,..and whose lives remain entertwined in it, literally and metaphorically .. f By KIRK BLEEMER Once in a whil'e there is a film made that makes you . think .. Born on tile Fourth • of July (based on Ron Kovic's autobiography by the same title) is a film that grabs . you, shakes you around and forces you to think. 1:1=!. Th~ story of Ron Kovic's ~ life is told in the movie Born ~ on the Fourth of July. ~ Tom Cruise plays the role of ~ · Ron Kovic to perfection. § Kovic was born on July 4, ~ · 1946 and raised in Massapequa, > . Long Island. He served in · ffr · Vietnam until 1968 when he ll: was shot and paralyzed from § the chest down. After returning ~ from Vietnam in a wheelchair ~: Kovic leads .a life of pain, · hopelessness, pride, and courage. Through Ron Kovic's life the viewer is able to see the 60's in many different ways. DYMANO THEATRE will be at Union's Nott Memorial on January 18, 19, and 20. All performances begin at 8:02 p.m., and tickets may be obtained from Mrs. Marra in the Student Activities Office, Prices range from $6- $7.50. The film shows you, through Kovick's life, the early .sixties and Kennedy, the escalation of the Vietnam War, the treatment of returning family when !.hey return home and most importantly a perspective of the Vietnam War from a soldier's point of view. From the very beginning you see Kovic's fascination with war and discipline. At home. Kovic was taught the feat of G-d, the love of t:hc United-States, and the hatted of communism. Although this may sccrn har,nless, the extent to whiclt Kovic followed !lis bel'iefs a.Rd teachings would make him blind to existing circurnsE.ances and future consequ~nccs. In 1968 Kovic enlisted and flew off to fight in Vietnam without qucstioni11g once, why? Happy Birthday College Radio soldiers, and the development of the peace movement. It also shows different angles of the sixties which are not discussed often, such as the plight of After his return Ron Kovic would g<O through a chain of evems tbat would change llis perceiJtion and beliefs forever. His realization would have impact on the future. Tile events are: depcitcd in a way that only Oliver Stone COllld do. The scenes of Vietnam, tile conditiGns of hospitals, and tile treatmeJIL of Vietnam vets is graphic and disturbing. So disturbi!lg it will make you think. Born gn the Fourth of July is a film that should n.()l be missed. It takes one person's life and shows you a who lc generatiO>n. By KAREN J. SCHAKFER Wl1at's. the first bit of Union trivia that's branded into your memory as a freshman? No. - after they tell you you'll have to travet to another hemisphere to fmd a sixteen sided building. Of course - WRUC, Union's student run radio station. was America's first station, beginning broadcasts in 1920. Over the next twenty years, stations began to pop up on campuses all over the country. Ill' an effort to give these stati()ns some form of unity. Irrtercollegiat~ Broadcasting System was founded. This winter. IBS celebrates its golden anniversary. As a founding member of IBS, Union has been very involved over the years. Each . year, WRUC station members travel to a national convention where IBS ltosts dozens of panel discussions on all aspects of the radio industry. This kind of forum allows students from all sizes and kinds of college stations. as well as high school stations, to interact and learn from each other. IBS also hosts seminars where professionals encourage and help students get 'jobs in commercial and public radio, in addition to different careers in the field of communications. These conferences also occur twice · . . yearly on the regional levels. But the coaventions are not THE NEW 8.97 Discharge the old decade and submerge into a • new one. Probe this new countdown while . pull-ing out and remembering those mounting . albums before we left. On top of it all 7 imagine · what's up: .a vast helping of sex:ual terms to keep everyone toasty. Thank you. My .8.97 Picks (we haven't been on long) . Artl~t 1. The Creatures 2. Michael Penn 3. Ministry 4. Kate Bush 5. Grant Hart 6. Steve Kilby 7. Graham Parker 8. Peter Murphy 8.97 Various Title Boomerang March Label Geffen RCA Sire Columbia The Mind is A Terrible Thln(JI Th$ Sensual World · Intolerance SST Rough Trade RCA Beggar's Banquet Chameleon The Slow ·Crack Human Saul Deep Radio Tokyo Tapes Eyebtow Raising Song o' The Week: i•cycles\ The· Fundamentals Programming Notes: . We're back, same time, same channel. Tune in . and jiggle with delight. the only attributes of becoming an l})S member. The governing board of IBS publishes termly The Jomnal of College Radio which cbronocalizes current advances made in the field. It also publishes catalogs listing items such as record COf!ipanies. equipment distributors, and concert promoters which become dear to college radio personnel. So as the leaders of American colleg.e radio .celebrate an important birthday, the nation's frrst station wishes them a happy golden anniversary. Good luck on another fifty years of helping to encourage and educate youth with the wonder of radio~ Traffic ••• Continued from page 16 hand a genuine Matthew Potatohead Magic Voodoo Item with a big tire track in its head . We had succeeded. Unfortunatly, my parents didn't share our feelings of triumph. When they walked into the room and saw our doings, Thomas was sent home. and I was given the standard anti-voodoo lecture all parents of weird chldreri give at one time or another. \What if Matthew got hit by a 'car tomorrow?\ was the question p<)sed to me by my mother. \Then we'd know it worked, •• I replied, which was probably not the best thing to say, but hey, l was a kid, we say things like that Well,. Matthew didn't get hit by a car. In fact, nothing terrible happened to him except he eventually moved to New Jersey. Every now and then Thomas and I get together and talk about Matthew Potatohead disabled veterans, the affect which veterans have on their Little Mermaid Blaze Ski Patrol Steel Magnolias The Wizard Back to the Future Tango & Cash War of the Roses Always Born of the 4th of July Christmas Vacation Glory Texas Chainsaw Massacre AU Dogs Go to Heaven Call Theaters for Show Times. and of our nefarious deeds of youth. We realize that what we did on that warm summer day was not exactly normal. We also realize that someday Matthew PQtatohead will be the president of IBM, and we'll be slinging hamburgers at Wendy's. And, if Matthew Potatohead should ever get hit by a car, Thomas and I know that we wiU surely be getting angry phone calls from our mothers . According to Dr. Spock, breathing can . . be hazardous to your children's health. mfcruun~. Wben 1r 1fc:cuons. arc cuupltxl wuh amtdfHt~ .ltJ (XJIIltl.mCi thctl.tnl.tg~: tu yuu11g hill}!..., I~ llllt\ll~ttiL:Ii

... )- -~ t,- C ·.~.:\t 1 Y<.\:i. )'>!. ·~·•:}.5~'\IA ?·~t).li:·t·,~~?,.\~<1V\'Y) Page 18 CONCORDIENSI$, January 18, 199.0 Remember to reapply for financiaL aid (schola.rs.hip • loan • work study) BY APRIL 15TH Applications available at the Union College Financial Aid Office 2nd Floor, Becker Hal'l • 37o-6123 1rrnlrn3 ~©ill.OOIID cJJ© UdJJ1~J~1ImW~ is having an Open House. Come over and get· acquainted'! Eve,ryone is invited. Refreshments ·wi:U be served. ,. ' . . Thursday, Jan. 18, 8:00p.m. First Floor Webster How would you like to: HEYJ *Develop your leadership skills* *Make career contacts* An exploration of the meaning of menstruation tor our deeper feminine *Work on a statewide drug abuse program* *Serve your campus and community* · *Travel across the state and around the country* *Make friends all over the world* · and much, much moref! Then join: Circle K International selves. by Judith Barr, psychotherapist Tuesday, January 23, in OLD CHAPEL 1 t:30 - especially for students 4:30- open to everyone Next Meeting: Pizza! in the Dutch Hollow 7 pm Tuesday, Jan. 23 Psi Upsilon CK.I - the Total College Experience POOL TOURNA ENT to benefit the Schenectady Boys Club SIGN UP BY FRIDAY, JANUARY 19TH $10.00 ENTRANCE FEE for you and your partner 1st, 2nd and 3rd Place Prizes

4' • I ' j {.J_,<\' Page 18 Remember to reapply for financial aid (scho!arshi.P • loan • work study) BY APRIL 15TH Applications avai'la.ble at th~;~ Union College Financial A,id ;Qffice 2nd Floor, .?ecker HaU • 37(Hil.~3 1rmr~ ~©mw JJ®WillJm~W~ is having an . Open House. 'Come over and get· acquaintedl · . · E . . ... d. · .. . very one •s lOVIte .. . Retreshtnents will be· served. . . , Th~sday, Jan. 18, 8:00·p.m. · · First Floor Webster How would you Uk~ to: · HEY! *Develop your leadershY,skills* · *Make career contacts* An exploration of the meaning of menstruation for our deeper femin i:ne *Work on a statewide drug abuse program* *Serve your campus and community* · *Travel across the state and around the country* *Make friends all over the world* · and much,. much more!! Then join: Circle K International selves. by Jcidith ·sarr, psychotherapist Tuesday, January 23, i,n OLD CHAPEL 11:30- especially for students 4:30 .. open to everyone. Next Meeting: Pizza!. in the Dutch Hollow 7 pm T11esday, Jan. 23 CKI .. the Total ·college Experience Psi Upsilon POOL TOURNA ENT to benefit the Schenectady Boys Club SIGN UP BY FRIDAY, JANUARY 19TH $10.00 ENTRANCE FEE , far you and your partner 1st, 2nd and 3rd Place Prizes . ' ' ~ - - . . . - . --- -~

CONCQB.fJlENSIS, Jan:uary 18, 1-990 CAM-PUS-- ,NEWS CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB A~CTIVITIES Tuesday Night Supper - January 23td at 5 p.m. - All • Union students are invited to • use meal card, go ·throu,gh Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC2(:)3 for supper and. an · ppportunity to speak with Joe ' O'Rourke of the Engineering Machine Lab. a Knight of Columbus., Schenectady Council 201. Joe ·w.ill be accompanied by several other Knights and their wives who . are· interested in Collegiate Councils. · Confi-rmation A'n y · Union student who has not been Confirmed may ·contact . Sr. Joan at the College Centet404B. Classes in . preparation · for Bishop Hubbard's visit in the spring will be arranged with student Lonely? Need a date? .·- Meet that special someone today! Call DATETIME (405) 366-6335. Jobs in Alaska: Hiring men - women summer/year round. Canneries, fishing, logging, tourism, construction up to $60(:) weekly plus free room and board. Call now! Call refunda~le.' 1-206~ 736-0775 ext. 1844H. Desperately seeking . a 1989 yearbook. Will pay $50 and up... If interested please call (516) 764-7755. PER.SONA..LS- gentler place without us!! Zee, Doe, But, P,J. & Buke Beth W, Don't forget to call tne next year. But don't think you're getting any money. · M I guess penguins don't go as fast as they used to, eh Mike? So much for your English exchange program, Mike. Remember: Don't count your penguins before they're hatched. The Milano Family, So Mike, how does it feel to . schedul~ in mind. We hope the neighborhood . lose the Battle of Britain? -. · (around 20U} is · a kinder, Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p..!.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in tl:te church to rehearse. The grou~ welcomes anyone to join who regularly attends this Liturgy. IC To My Roomies Katie and Allison- . Sorry I mined your great situation · hope you don't miss the suite room too much. Thanks for being great. Michele To My New Roommate Diane Thanks for sharing your room with me. I'm really looking forward to our 'first' sleepovef! Love, Courtney Marni: I hope Israel is picking up - I miss you being here. Write soon!! Love, Courtney Bruce: Clean your .room - now you owe me dinner. -UL •••• Tutoring • U!lion College students needed to tutor at any one of thre~ local elemeniary schools. Please contact Sheila Humiston 372~9231: Any former tutors please write to Sheila at Box 965 and let her know if you are keeping the same assignment or have changed it. 0 f!!Ju~~ Visiting Shut-Ins - Any Union studenl who wishes to visit .a shut-in on a regular basis please con!act Gcrri Borne at 372-338!. ~·--.JU'I ~---~-~ !. ! I, ~ - ~--~--~·~/ f I - }i- -<-! -~' i r! f Video Pr o~r-£Wl - On • i 1 '·' Tuesday, J2nurP: 21 at S!. •l \Cc:J=.-\l John's School t-ibf;Jry t\wm i' ~ 1 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. aU are .-------~ ~~~~~a~c \tJ~s:~te~~ : ~~~~~ ]jfj Yi Him, Segment 8: 'What Does LJ Jesus Think of a Sinner?\' in f which John Powell, S.J. shares I ~ .. ~. -'~ his feelings about Jesus and \~ what he means in Father Powell's everyday life. Study Guides and discussion questions will be provided. Bible Study/Prayer Group· On Tuesday, January 23 from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's School Library there will be ~ continuation of a study of the Gospel of Matthew. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS Attention: Earn money reading books! $32,000/year income potential. Details (1) 602-&38-8885 Ext. Bk 7090. Wanted: Part time help for furniture store for various kinds of work pertaining to a furniture store. Call: 374-7785. ,~·~ ,, )?~·}- . I, '- __ __.-;:~~~ A. ; ., ·. . _; .:· ~~- •. , - Page 19 Circle K: Leadership, community, fun, friends and family. Come and sec; it will be worth it! TLiesdays, 7 p.m. in Room 409. MW- .. Saturday night was an \absolut\ blast. Lefs do it again some time soon. P .S. You are the prettiest girl in the willagc. To all my friends who helped me survive Saturday night: Tllanks again'! You guys arc . awesome! I owe you one -The girl dressed in black and white. · Join Circle Kl Tuesday night at 7 pm, Room 409. There will · be good fun, new friends and food! l ~' ': !i \\·,,: '·' .~ ~ 1 r=,~~l,_ :'\---\' ~ i! . li ~-· y··--·1 '-' . ~ ..,..,... . . . <-

I 'CQN\CORDl1J:NS1S January 18, 1'990 . ~ . . N:E WM A.N C:L UB ACTIVITIES . Lone'ly? Need a date? , Meet tbat special someone today! ·call ~D A TETIME {405) 366-6335.. . Tusday ~igbt Supper .. • January 23rd at -5 p.m. - All · Unio1.1 students are invite.d to •. Jobs in Alaska: Hiring men use rn.eal card, go through . _ - women summer/year round. Uppe:rclass Dining, bring tray ~: Canneries,: fishing, logging, to CC203 for supper and-an tourism, c()nstruction up to pppcrtunity to speak with Joe $600 weekly plus free room O'Rolltke of the Engineering :• and board. Call now! _Call Maclline Lab.,. a Knight of _ refundable.' 1-206-736-0775 Colltlllbus, schenectady ext. 1844II. · Couitcil 201. Joe ·w.ill be accolllpanied by several other Knights and their wives. wl10 are· h1te(ested in Collegiate Coundls. Coilfirm.a:tion - A'n y Union student who has not De&:j)etately seeking . a 1989 yearbook. Will pay $50 and up .... If interested· • please call (516) 764-7755. been Confirmed,_ may contact .... =::::::========= Sr. Joan at the College · PE_._.; R·so· ·A.r -\·LS · Gentet4:<l4B. Classes in · · ; · · ,iJ::~f-.fi. · · ·- · . preparation · for · Bishop- - gentler place without us!! Zee, Doe~ But, P.J. & Buke - Beth W, Don't forget to call me ·nex,t · year. But don't think you're getting any money. M r guess penguins don't go as fast as they used to, eb Mike? So much for your English exchange program, Mi.J{e. · :Remember: Don't count yout penguins before tb.ey're · hatched~ · Hubb~d' s visit in th,e spring will be arranged with student schedliles in mind. · The Milano Family, So Mike. how does it feel to· To My Roomies Katie aQd Allison- . Sorry I ruined your great situation - hope you don't miss the suite room too much. Thanks for being great. Michele To My New Roommate Diane Thanks for sharing your room with me. I'm really looking forward to our 'first' sleepovcr! Love, Courtney Marni: I hope Israel is picking ~P - I miss you 'being here. Write soon!! Love, Cmntney Bruce: Clean your room - now you owe me dinner. Page 19 Circle K: Leadership, community, fun, friends and family. Come and see; it will be worth it! . Tuesdays, 7 p.m. in Room ·. 409. .MW- : Saturday night was an \absolut\ blast. Let's do it again some time soon. P .S. You are Lhe prettiest git! in the willagc. To all my friends who helped me survive Saturday night: Thanks again! You guys are awesome! I owe you one -The girl dressed in black and white. Join Circle K! Tuesday night at 7 pm. Room 409. There will be good fun, new friends and food! We _.hope _the neighborhood .. lose the Battle of Britain? ·(around· ,20U) is· a kinder, . :F()l)( Group • All singers . .-~-----=--- ..... -......o--:-----~-~~~~~~-------------.::...---------­ : and rnusicians interested in being- p.art of the · music ·ministry at the 7:30 P..:.m. Sund~y Mass _p~ease meet at 6:30 ]l.m .. in the charch to rehearse. The ·group. welcomes anyone to join who regularly attend~ this Liturgy. · Tute~ri~Jg - Union College stude11ts needed to tutor at any one of thre~ local elementary schools~ Please contact Sheila Humiston S72'•923t Any former tutors please write to Sheila at Box 965 and let her know if you are keeping the same --assignment or have changed it. · Visiting Shut-Ins - Any Union ~ltldent who wishes to visit ::1 shut· in on a regular basis please contact Gcrri Borne at 372-3381. Vid ~o PnJgr,arrn • On Tuesday, January 23 at. St. John's Sclwol Ub~·ary from 7:30 1(ll 8:30 p.m. all are welcm:ne to att-end a video progra..In \Jesus '·As I Know Him, Segment 8: 'What Does Jesus 1'hink of a Sinner?\' in ·which John Powell, S.J. shares his feelings about Jesus and · what lte means in Father Powelt'i; everyday life. Study Guides and discussion questi~ns will be provided. Bible Study/Prayer Group - On Tuesday, January 23 fron. 8:45 to 9~30 p.m. at St. Joh11•s School Library there will b:e a continuation of a study or\ the Gosp,el of Matth~w. A11 are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS Atteil1i.on: Earn money reading books! $32.000/year incorne potential. Details (1) 602-8~8-8&85 Ext. Bk 7090. Wante.!l: Part time help for furnitlll'~ store for various kinds of work pertaining to a furnitUJ'~ store. Call: ~14-7785. ••••

:. ~ · Page 20 PERSONALS Michelle R, Next time Take your time on your own time ... Evan- · Happy 21st, buddy. (two d<lys late). Hope it was a good one! -Lesmo ss- Welcome back. Concordy wasn't the same without you last term! When are you going to cook me dinner? Your old Roomie Dear Laura, Happy Birthday! We were going to write yo11 a poem, but what the bell rhymes with Weissbach?! Love, Janet & Amanda Curt, Because you were nice to us when we were.green We're going to take you out for ice cream. Order everything you crave but white russian ice cream would send us to the grave We'll pick you up tonight at nine It will be an awesome time. To Ben & Jerry's we will go L- With love from Marcy & Lesmo The bounce don't bounce the shout don't shout Rob thinks we're crazy when all we are is lazy! May the love, laughter & beer never stop flowing. Love T. To Lisa A. Get psyched for a great pledge period. Love, Marcy (Mom) Gilligan- Happy 21st (2 days late) PEH- Love, Skipper Did you end up losing the bet or should we say winning the bet with Victor? Love, L&J Steve- So much for taking . 1 Wh ' .c . ?? tt sow . . . ats 1ast. . Congrats to all ex-athletes! May we be drunk every nite! No Saturday meets! ToKW I love ya • ITB Mom CONCORDIENSIS~ January 18,·. 'J$19'0 . CAMPUS NEWS COLLEGE CENTE·R SCHEDULE Thursday, January 18, 1990 11:30am CCAUD Minerva Hour: Larty Hart '44, \Schenectady\ Past & Present'' 5:00pm CC41 0 Tai Chi Class 7:OOpm CCAUD BLAS Speaker: Ruben Estrada 7:30pm CC203 Peace & Justice Workshop 8:30pm CCAtrium BLAS Reception Friday, January 19, 1990 7, 9, 11 CCA UD Film: \Do the Right Thing\ Saturday, January 20, 1990 7, 9, 11 CCAUD Film: \Do the Right Thin \ g Sunday, January 21, 1990 7, 9, 11 CCAUD Film: '\Do the Right Thing\ Monday, January 22, 1990 6:00pm UCDH President's Dinner, Class of '93 7:30pm CCAUD Dramatic Reading Series: \Protest\ by Vaclav Havel, read by James Underwood and Adrian Frazier 7:OOpm CC203 S.P.A.A. Meeting 7:OOpm CC406 Modem Lang. Fihns Tuesday, January ·23', 1990 7:00pm CC406 Improv. Class Reunion 7:00pm CCAUD Ski Team Movie 8:00pm UCDH Crosstalk: \Should the State (or anyone else) Regulate Y Drinkin . ~It . our · .. ·. g. Wednesday, J annary 24, 1990 9:00am 3:00pm 5:00pm 6:00pm 7;9,11 7:30pm CCAtrium Community Service Fair CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting CC302 Meditation Study CC410 Speaking Hands CCAUD Film: 11 St. Elm()'S Fire\ CC406 Spanish. Club Film. Thursday, January 25, 1990 11 :30am CCAUD Minerva Hour: Susan Ceresano, \Framing the State: The Excavation of the Playhouse.\ 5:00pm CC410 Tai Chi Class 9:00 CC302 CABARET The College Center/Smithsonian In~titution Exhibition, Remaking Americ,a: New Uses, Old Places, continues on the second, third and :fourth floors of the College Center. Admission is free. . --Weekly Crossword~· ~- By Gerry Frey ~RocK 'N ROLL~ ~~~::--r.:- ACROSS 1 The_: ~shake it Up!! 5 Computer aid 10 Billy_: ~Piano Man~ 14 Newspaper sect. 15 _Adams: landsca~e photographer 16 Ready, willing and __ 17 Keg contents 18 Essential pump 19 Natalie 20 Pat __ : ~Hil Me With Your Best Shot~ 22 The_: \\I'm a Believer-:: 24 Electrically charged atom 25 Ice cream holders 26 !'Whole Shakin' Goin' on~: Jerry lee lewis 29 Big Mac holder 30 Don Rickles specialty 34 Gabor et al 35 _Tillis: Country· western star 36 Stevie _:\\You Are The Sunshine of My Life'\' 37 The Badger State lor short 38 \\Hey Jude~ singers 40 TokYo's original name 41 let's really get __ _ 43. Employ 44 lath 45 Cassandra et al 46 Garfunkel 47 British guns 48 City in Idaho 50 \\American --~: Don Mtlean 51 ,. __ all odds'\': Phil Collins 54 Dionne_: \\I'll Never Fall in Love Again~ 51J Follows \.WIN\ and \COR\ 59 \Clean and_._\: Keaton movie 61 Adrift 62 Las Vegas !)arne 63 Mountains In 'Soviet Union 64 Lease 65 \Unto us __ is given\ 66 Ham it up 67 Tete a_. DOWN 1 Ty _. : H:allol Farner 2 __ in your bonnet 3 Nothing in Paris 4 Dire _. : ~smthers in Arms~ 5 Larry -·. : Rodeo cowboy 6 Precedes '\OUS\: Burden- some 7 ~Born in the _\\: Bruce Springstee 11 8 Sunday speech 9 -.-John: \\Sad Songs'\' 10 Michael_: ~Beat 'It!! 11 Woodwind 12 PrnnounifllrSimone 13 General Robert E. and lamily 21 ''Ode ___ Nightingale\ 23 Peter el al 25 -. Club: :!Colour by Numbers'.t 26 Jerry lee_: \\Great Ba Us Afire~ 27 Sheepish 65 28 There is no accounting for this 29 Ms Arthur 31 Female name 32 Car type 33 Canters 35 Opera house 36 \--Willie Winkie\ 38 .American BuHalo 39 Mil. ship 52 The Bee _._:~stayin' Alille~ 42 Roy __ : ~oh Pretty 53 Peter_._._: tartoonist W11 man\\ 54 Raised red mrark 44 Rod __ : ~Maggie Mae~' 55 Two word IU~Ial!lalion 46 Kick trp _ --· 56 Penny 47 \To _With love\ li1 --. Capsha'/I:Actress 49 Current event &P African board galtle 50 Analyze grammatically 51 Paul _: ~Lonely Boy!! ©1989 GFR Associates All Ri-ghts Reserved p,O. Box 9104. Schenectad~.N.Y. 12309 11/89

CONCORDIENSIS, January 18;1990- CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS Louise- Curt- Happy hirtl1day! · Love, Stephanie B--R --0-C-C-0--L--(And ·. Absolute) You can't make a rational decision when you're paranoid, cubed, and cynical. . Welcome back! Love, Stephanie · Klisten- r--'\ _ _....,.._,._,.... ____ ~-----------· .. Happy 21st ~lated b-day. ····Penelope - A wise man once said \good · ' thing.s come to those who wait.\ I waited, and you're For your information: The Campus News Editors proudly announce the addition of our new cartoon: ''SHOE'' Enjoy! Your friend at Concordy . Happy B-Day Danah! I love u. · great. Love ya, The . materialistic, chauvinist ! driving the yellow Ferrari . . called \blind spot.\ ~ Amy . (Beep. Beep) · . Hey Penelope, Roddy, telephone! · What solUld do bunnies make? -The fairy Michele · - The Ew Genius Page 21 TQ all DU Presidents - Past, present, futute, and fake. Drink to this!!! -EO . Coop- Thanks for the fu.n. Wherc's the broom? AKM • Coop- \You say it's your birthday, it's , my Mrthday too. Happy . birthday to you, We're gonna have a good time.\ -1/21!70 TJT, You're back in ~he doghouse - ·• again. I :;o JeffMacNelly RAPE CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady · Planned Parenthood: ·Hotline: 346-2266 SHOE-------------. by Jeff MacNel/y 1UI~ Gilt( UAG Gt?T !UE NIN~TI~G OFF ft> kCRIJICK ~fAf<T .. -1.1(;. WANfG AN ANGWSJZ . ~§~TAWN(. tl~ rfl7-c.XXE:D Me A PAX MAailAlf. .. , tii(SWN'NIO L.A~T MONDAC(~ P'Af131'. A~PTAKEA J<IGl.ff. .. BAM The Schenectady Hou:sing Dept. Up Yours! -20 u. Jetsons Beware, we're aiming ' · · for the tille! -The Hackers To: Union College Students From: Big Brothers/Big Sisters Thank you for your generosity in _contributing to our bottle and can collection in the College Center these past two years. Your nickel deposits have turned into dollars ·which in turn have directly helped BB/BS provide services to needy youth. We have appreciated your thoughfulness and look forward to continued campus- community interaction. .. -

'~ ., .. ~ ! ~\~~ :. <.i Page 22 <ft.nnntrbirttsis . . SPORTS .. Mason, Russ Take Dutchmen to Championship Game Continued from page 1 19-yard field goal as the first half ended) and a 55-yard punt return {which resulted in a third-quarter touchdown) for the bulk of their scoring while the Dutchmen missed two medium range field goals. The Dutchmen's. only other appearance in the Stagg Bowl, in 1983, ended with a 21-17 loss to Augustana. But that Dutchmen team bounced back from the championship game loss to remain a national power until the down years of 19~7 and 1988. This team should be able todo the same. In order to return to its record,..setting performance level of 1989, though, the team will have to overcome the loss of a senior class that was dee? in quality, if not quantity. ''Quantity-wise we're losillg only nine players, but quality- wise, those nine can't be measured, \said eighth year Head Coach A1 Bagnoli (67-17~ 0). \Ther~ is no way to }Jilt a value on the leadership they brought to the team. Tlleir personalities, their pride, desire, hustle, determination, · and their pursuit of excellence are qualities that can't be measured. They will be sorely missed. I can only hope that the qualities they broug~t to the team, not only this year, but throughout their careers, will be catried on by otllers next season.\ For those who like to .see more tangible measures of a player's performance, there a sorne impressive numbers to look at, starting with the seniors. Tailback Ryan. Mason set records for yards in a season (1,545, breaking Sam Hammerstrom's mark of 1,143 set in 1939) and touchdowns in a season (17, bfeaking John Johnson's mark of 10 set in both 1983 and '84). Mason also tied Johnson's career rushing touchdown record of 26 and finished third· on Union's all-time career rushing chart with 2,490 yards. Defensive end Greg Hallas I FOOTBALL STATISTlCS UNION 14 St Lawrence 13 . UNION28 Rochester 6··. J' UNION21 Hobart 7 · UNION36 Albany St. 22 UNION28 Carnegie Melon 6 . UNION28 RPI3. UNION24 Coast Guard ,0 • UNION39 Gettysburg. 0 UNION49: Norwich6 UNION34 Hamilton 0 · *UNION 42 Cortland 14 *UNION 45 :Montclair St. 6 *UNION 37 Ferrum 21 : . *Dayton 17 UNION 7 ' ·. \Denotes Playoffs broke his own single-season record Qf quarterback sacks in .a season (16 in 1988) with 22 for 180 yards. Hailas finislied his career with 42 sacks, one- half shy of Rich Romer's College mark. Five players (all seniors) were selected by the ECAC as All-Stars. Tight end Mario DiLoreto, nose tackle Bill Smith, offensive guard Jack Catanzaro, linebacker Thorn McMahon, and Mason represented Union on the 24~ man team. To be sure, the Dutchmen wiLl miss the talents of these players next year, but there are more than able players waiting in the wings, and .sophomore quarterback Brett Russ should continue to improve. Russ had a· recordbreaking season himself in 1989. He set single·season passing records fdr attempts {413), completions ·(222), and yards (2;670). Russ says that he is ah:eady looking forward to a winning season next year. Wile some of the individual rrAlotds l'Uld milestones ,Set last year m~ght be out of reach next year, some of the: team marks might remain within reach, lofty as they were. Of 214 Division III schools, the Union ·Offense ranked 24th in points produced per game (30.2), and 19fh in to.tal offense (411.3 yards). The defense tanked third in poinlS allowed (6.a). 13th in pass defense (1()1. 7 yards), 22nd in rushlng defense (94.5), and llth in total defense (106.2 yards). Regardless of what the Dutchmen do next year, 1989 will be a benchmark for judging the future- success of Union football for a long time to come. 370-6060 1\pcK_:n-1\.p{[ Pizza Pub Wee/([y speciaCs ... . free cfe[ivery on campus OPEN DAILY 5:00 PM to 11 :00 PM We now ,accept Meal Cards .from 7:00pm to 11:00 pm STOP :BY FOR DETAILS Look for our spe:ciality breads, individual salads and much ·more The Way you Like ltf Call Us at 370-6060

CONCORDIENSIS, January 18, 19lJO - ' • • • ' • • • • \ ' \to ~ • • Page 23 <Honrorbirttsis SPO R'T s Reforming NCAA Athletics: Why We Need Proposition 42 By BILL BRILL Executive Sports Editm·, · Roanoke Times &: World New$ were ll<>n·existent. For: tltree years~ an uneasy allian~e existed with Prop 48. While a comprehensive, five~ year NCAA study was not comJlle!:e, most athletic admirristrator:s and coaches agreethat Prop 48 has achieved its ptlrpose. More athletes arriv~ on campus as qualified students~ will be Wrong. Once again, the majority of athletic grants ; denied unqualified blacks will · Mouthing Off At the NCAA convention in Dallas next month, the two most historic numbers in the annals of intercolLegiate athletics will be brought up for debate and vote: 48 and 42. Some history is needed: In January 1983, NCAA delegates, most qften faculty chairmen and college presidents adopted Proposition 48, which was to go into effect in the fall of 1986. Dismayed at distressingly low graduatioa rates for scholarship athletes, embarrassed by a plethora of scandals, administrators came to the inescapable conclusion that outside influences were needed or all respect for intercollegiate sports would be lost. What they did was to incorporate a required curriculum of hig,b-school classes, 11 of them,. requiring a 2.0 grade point average, with a minimum score on standatdized tests. In order to be eligible to play as freshmen, athlet~s also had to achieve a score of 700 on the SAT or 15 on the ACT. The furor that greeted the new rule was overwhelming. Mostly, the lawmakers were charged with overt 1acism because black students traditionally have scored lower on the tests than white students. Although there was a fine-tuning of the legisl!ition, and a sliding scale was used the first two years, Prop 48 essentially survived intact. Why was Prop 48 needed in the first place? To save the coaches from themselves. Combined with the high cost ofbig .. time college football and basketball and the enormous revenue rewards for successful athletic programs, academic standards were consistently lowered to the unfortUnate level where, at some schools, they Just as the furor appeared to be subsiding, a tempest formed itt Janua:ry 1987 ~t the NCAA con·vention in San FranCisco. There~ in a revote and by a slim 111argin, the delegates adopted :Prop 42. In an effort to close -wllat was ·perceived as one <>f the loopholes in Prop 48. the new rule stated that parHal qaali'fiers, those · who passed- tile core courses or the standardized tests but not both, couldnotreceive any academic aid. Tile Olltburst after that vote was eilonnous. Temple athletic director .. Charlie Theokas, scream.edat the delegates in an emoti()flal outburst. Later, his · outsp()lcen basketball coach, John Ch2ney, termed Prop 42 blatant 1acism. Georgetown basketball coach John Thompso11 walked off the floor in pr(}test and then sat out of theg~~; Prop 4:2 was voted upon too hurriedly·. In eliminating the possibility that a partial qualifler could receiye college academic aid, it may have been just t()D stringent. Prop 42 will face stiff challenges in the January convention at Dallas. The NCAA Council has recommended that it be amend.ed, so that partial qualifiers may compete with regular students for financial help. That would be the proper way to go. allowing athletes to compete on the same terms as other students for whatever schola-ship aid is available. Matiy pe<JPle will attempt to have Prop 42 killed. They will make tll'tl usual arguments about discrimination and they go to better-qualified (academically) blacks. Prop 48 has, since its inception. proved its critics wrong. High-school athletes have learned that ability alone won't get them a Division I or Division II scholarship. Non- qualifiers can, and do, attend junior colleges, later t:ransferring to four-year schools. Or they may elect to play at NAIA institutions. The requirements of Prop 48 are minimal. The penalties are not extreme. A student who attends the school of his choice as a Prop 48 student is ineligible as a freshman and loses that year of participation, but can receive an ahtletic scholarship. That is the route followed by Tony Rice at Nou~e Dame and Rumeal Robinson at Michigan, stars of the current national champions in football and basketball, respectively. Prop 48 works. If fairly amended, so will Prop 42. (Distributed by the CoJ.legeiate Network) NOTE FROM THE EDITORS: The NCAA Convention was . held in Dallas last week and university chancellors and presidents voted to amend Prop 42. The new proposition, known as Prop 26, allows incoming student-athletes to receive financial aid based on their family income, even if they fall short of academic requirements for athletic scholarships. Other proposals were also implemented, such as drug testing for all football players in major programs, the shortening of spring football practice, as well as regular season basketball schedules, and ordered Division r and II schools to disclose the graduation rates of athletes in all sports. Union College bloodmobiles are coming to Old Chapel from 11:30 am to 5:30 pm on: Wednesd·~y, February 21, 1990 Thursday, February 22, 1990 Friday, February 23, 1990 to sign up call Lorraine Marra, Student Activities Coordinator~ tel # 370-6118 or stop by her office (Room 408) or call Red Cross Blood Services 393- 3606. . . ' IBy ANDY BRAVER W t. '?I? I h ,10 cares. . . mean, w o · really does care?!? Even people ' in San Francisco and Denver · . Kn()W what is going to happen. Sa Why ate they going to play 'Super Bowl XXIV in New Orleans on Sunday, January 281 The answer is simple-- so the television audience can witness the excitement and drama of the illustrious second annual \BUD BOWL''. I really ;feel soJ,Ty for those poor fans (and I do mean $poor$) who have tickets to the game and are going to miss Anheuser- .Busch's glieatest moments, I mean .seconds, Seriously though, because the Super Bowl is again going to be a Super Bore, I would like to ,take a look hack at this past .NFL season rather than look forward to the last Sunday of the first month of the last decade ofthe last century of the ~econd millenium. The 1989 NFL season was not one which lacked controversy. Needless to say, there were the usual drug and steroid problems. This year, 'however, these maladies were topped by the infamous search io find anybody whose last natne had nothing to with .be-ing a traitor. The end result-- Pall1 Tagliabue has replaced ,Pete Rozelle as NFL Commissiom;:r, Jim Finks was :publicly embarrassed, and now Tagliabue's signature is on !each and every football used in NFL games. There were also some very interesting statistical facts and . records which arose out of the past season. Here a few of them: * San Francisco's all-world- all-time quarterback Joe Montana, a Notre Dame g:raduate, set a league rvcord this past year with a 112.4 CJUarterback rating. He also finished the season with 2,593 tar~er completions, which tics ltirn for fifth place with former St. Louis Cardinal great Jim Hru:t on the all-time list. * Miarni Dolphins ((Uarterback Dan Marino finished with 3,997 passing rar<ls and missed registering a record fifth 4,000-yard season. Not to worry, Dan. something tells me that you will still 'llave another chance to break :this record. \' Another milestone will be reached early in the I.ndianapolis Colts' season opener next year. Running back Eric Dickerson, who finished with 11,226 career ruslting yards, is only 10 yards bebind OJ. Simpson, who is s:ixtb on the all-time list. * Washington Redskins run11ing back Gerald Riggs has 1,465 career rushing yards and is ill 13th place on the all-time List. Marcus Allen of the Raiders needs another 12 yards .l() pass Leroy Kelly. who is in ISth place. Allen finished the year with 7,262 rushing yards. New York Giants running back Ottis (don't call me O.J .) Anderson has 9,317 career rushing yards and is only 10 behind · ninth-place Earl Campbell. Of the league's 1,000-yard rushers this past season, Anderson's averaged 3. 1 yards a carry, which was the lowest, and his 325 carries were third highest in the league. * Philadelphia Eagles quarterback Randall Cunningham .led his team in rushing for the third straight season and moved into fifth place on 'the all-time list for rushing yards by a quarterback with 2.495. Foryou triv·ia buffs out there, the career leader is Steve Grogan of the New England Patriots. * Kansas City Chiefs kicker Nick Lowery ended the season as the league's all-time leader in field goal percentage. However, a battle will be waged for yeats to come in that area. Lowery's career percentage is 77.3, followed closely by New Orleans' Morten Andersen at 77 .0. Pittsburgh's Gary Anderson at 76.9, Detroit's Eddie Murray at 76.3, Chicago's Kevin Butler at 75.0 and Los Angeles Rams' Mike Lansford at 74.1. * Another Chief had a memorable season. Despite having just half a sack in the last six games, linebacker Derrick Thomas finished the season with 10, tying him with the Pattiots' Garin Veris for fifth highest total by a rookie in league history. San Diego's Leslie set the mark in 1986 with 12.5. * Green Bay cornerback Dave Brown now has 62 career interceptions and is tied for fifth place on the all-time list. *The New York Giants and Denver Broncos finished another season without returning a kickoff for a touchdown. Their streaks of futility date back to 1972. Giant rookie David Meggett · ended another dubious mark for his team when he returned a punt 76 yards against the Raiders f0r a touchdown, for the first time since 1977, for the Giants. * The winners of Monday night games enjoyed particular successes this past season. prevailing in 14 of 15 games the following week. Only the Chicago Bears were losers following a Monday night victory. In 1988, only 6 of 15 Monday winners won the following week. Of the 15 losers this season, 10 won the next week compared to 11 in 1988. On nine occasions, both Monday participants won the following week. Interesting stuff, isn't it!?! I would much rather watch the six kickers in competition than the Super Bowl, but I don't have the choice. Oh well, at least I have the Bud Bowl to look forward to. .e - •·

. ~-- Jen Joyce strokes to the finish line. Swim Team Wins Dual Meet After Long Break Hale William Smith & Trinity? Hale No! By JAMIE LIPSHER After a long, tough Christmas break of training here at Union and then down in Curaceau, Union swimmers showed no signs tht the month-long lapse without a competitive meet affected their spirit or performance. At noon on Saturday, the Dutchmen took on Trinity, a supposedly strong team. Well, if there was any power at all in that team, the Union men drowned it within minutes. Clifford Shaw, a freshman, shattered the longstanding pool record in the 1000 yard freeswle of 1:44:51 by nearly eight seconds with a time of 10:36:00. There were several personal best times in the meet also. Freshman Jamie Rawstron drd a 53: I for the 100 freestyle in his leg of the relay, while sophomore Tony Tremaglio darted to a first place position in the 200 individual Medley and just missed breaking his own record by a few hundredths of a second with a time of 2:01:09. Overall, the men took first place spots in 11 oat of the 13 events, first and second places in four events, and first and third in four others. Coach Bassett felt that, \ ... people had good swims across the board. We really dominated the meet; I was quite pleased.\ The final score was a blowout of 140 to 62. Directly following the men's meet, the Union women swimmers hosted William Smith, their ever-haunting rival. Althou,gh Coach Bassett came to Union from William Smith, tltere is more to the rivalry than that. Last season, William Smith was the only team Union failed to beat. However. this year, the tide turned and the women's team showed no mercy. There was no stopping the Union women. It could have been a 22nd · birthday present from the team to their captain Kathy Kavaney, or the luck of Mr. and Mrs. Dorse who came all the way from Seattle to cheer their daughter and alma-mater on; but, most likely, it was the all-around and endless team talent and spirit that led the Union women's team to a 194 to 104 victory over William Smith. Out of the 16 events during the meet, Union managed to capture the first place p0sition in 14, while also grabbing the second place spot in 7 of them. Just to mention a couple of the several outstanding swims: sophomore Kerstin Dorse broke her own school record in the 1000 yard freestyle with a time of 11:05:19~ and Jen Joyce, also a sophomore, who is just corning off an injury to her clavicle, swam With what seemed like ease in the breaststroke event. Coach Bassett seemed just as, if not more, :pleased with the performance of the women as she was with the men and grinned as she said, \We were really solid throughout the entire meet. There is a good deal of depth and everyone swam exceptionally welL It is nice to see where we are at this point in the season.\ And no doubt, for both teams are on top! Union defeated Salem Saturday night 6-4. The ··te.am Is now· ranked 5th In the ECAC. January 18, 1990 Campbell As Defensetnan Leads Skating Dutchmen Past Salen1 State By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor.;in-Cbi.ef As part of a major shakeup of line~. junior Terry Campbell was moved from center to play defense for the first time in his collegiate career. The move paid instant dividends as Campbell scored his second and third g~als of the season to spark Union to a 6-4 victory over Salem State Saturday night at Achilles Rink. The Dutchmen outshot the Vikings 39 to 21, including 12-4 ill the final period, as they rebou!lded from a 9-4 loss at North Adams the previous Tuesday. With the loss and then the win last week, the Dutchmen (8-3-2) dropped from sixth to ninth in the NCAA poll. Union is fifth in the ECAC poll, trailing Babson, RIT, Bowdoin, and Hamilton. Fresltman defenseman Greg Steele opened the scoring against Salem when he scored on a high shot from the left punt past goaltender Nick Chingris. Assists on the goal went to Guy Logan and Dalton Menhall. Campbell had been centering for those two, but sophomore Craig Ferrero moved in to fill that position. Ferrer() had 30 points while playing on a .Jine with Logan last season. Mike LaCroix scored for the Vikings to tie the score, but with just over six minutes remaining in the first period, Campbell showed the home crowd just why he was chosen to mo\e back to defense. Campbell took the puck from along the right wing boards in his own zone and rocketed all the way to the comer in the Salem zone faster · than you can say \one-man- show.\ Campbell's shot from an almost impossible angle caught d1e far post and caromed into the net. It was an improbable result that that particular shot would find the net, but what happened leading up to the shot was no accident. Head Coach Bruce Delventhal, who had watched his team struggle to get the puck .out of the defensive zone in recent games, knew that Campbell could single- handedly solve that problem. It was a move that \the coaches had been kicking around all season,\ said Delventhal. It was a move that was a long time in the works, and after the North Adams game it became a good time to make. The second period saw six goals scored, three by each team, with Marc Goguen, Bill Railton, and Rick Clifford scoring for the Dutchmen. The goals from Goguen and Rail ton were especially welcome. That line was a big point producer last year, but, after a fast start this year, had seen its production fall off. Meanwh~e. Clifford's line, one that had not been ex.pected to be a great .source of goals, has stood out recently. They scored three ggals against Williams to lead the Dutchmen to a 4-0 win on Jan~ary 6. The game went back and forth, and although the Dutchmen never trailed, neither could they score consecutive .. goals until Campbell's second, a power-play goal 35 seconds into the third period. On that power-play. Campbell was playing up front, giving Union an added versatility. With Campbell moving to the blue line and Ferrero switching lines, Chris LaBruzzo, a freshman, took Ferrero's place between Darrel Gustafson and Tim Cregan. LaBruzzo picked up an assist on the flrst Campbell goal and Just missed .a goal of his own later on when his shot appeared to cross the goal line momentarily. The goal judge turned on his light and the crowd roared, but the referee waved it off, c1aiming that the puck did not, in fact, cross the line. LaBruzzo was making his second start of the season. Left intact for Saturday's game were the line of Railton, Goguen, and Dan Gould (two assists Saturday), and the line of Clifford, Mike Flanagan, and Nick Baratoff. On defense, Campbell was paired with Scott Whitney, Bill Sedergren was reunited with Peter Cotier (recovering from a knee injury), and Steele was paired with Rick Burchill. Brian Lucey remains out with a separated shoulder. The Dutchmen host Geneseo State Saturday night at Achillles Rink. Last year the Dutchmen defeated the Ice Griffs, 8-3. Geneseo is ranked fifth in the ECAC. After that game, Union has one more long stretch of road games before winding up with seven of the last eight games at home, including another shot against North Adams. The. Dutchmen travel to Hamilton on Tuesday, January 23. The Salem State game was the first home game with school in session, coming almost halfway through the season. The crowd was about double what it was when Union hosted Holy Cross, Kent State and Michigan- Dearborn over the break. Campbell continues to move quickly up the Union all-time scoring list. He has 33 goals and 63 assists for 96 points, and with 4 points he wiH become the eleventh Dutchman to reach the century mark. WELCOME BACK SPORTS STAFF? BUT WHERE ARE YOU?

Vol. . CXIX, ·No. 10 Scbentlctady ~ New York \ January 25, 1990 Greek Liability Discussed With Outside Attom~y By JAY FREELAND News Editor ; Last Monday, the Interfraternity and Panhellenic Councils. hired an outside attm:ney to <Liscuss the legal liabilities each Greek house faces under the new Union College Social Policy. The meeting lasted slightly over an hour and illcluded a brief overlay of New York State Law. Specifically, the attorney focused on the alcohol related statutes and fallowed it up by a forty~five minute question and answer session. A group ()f approximately fifty Greek members and Assitant Deaii of Students Fred Alford listened closely as the attorney presented several possible liability scenarios. Primarily, the depictions were directed towards alcohol-related injury. house held responsible, since each house has its cwn lhibility insurance and many individuals do not. The attorney answered tha.t it would, however, he sugg~sted · that each house ·check their policy for ail alcohol clause. Without the clause, an alc{)hol related incident nullifies. the insurance policy. Ways of reducing liability under the current policy were also discussed. One student asked if checking J.D.'s at the door and posting signs stating that only those over the age of twenty-one can drink W()uld reduce liability. Tbe lawyer returned that yes, it would reduce liability, but it would then become a case of learning how to distinguish real I.D.'s from fake ones. Even if a minor enters with a f~e I.D., · if that person is served., the Greek organization becomes liable. . Following the information presented at last Monday's meeting, IFC members prepared to draw up proposed changes to' be presented b-efore the week is up. The attorney warned Greek organizati()ns to take great care in their activities and to check again with their own ho·use atttorneys as to what their liability insurance covers. lFC Proposes Social Changes By BRAD CLOSE The present social policy states that o11ly individuals over the age of 21 may sponsor an event ·at wllich alcohol is served. the IFChas no problem with this statement. Where the problem exists is in the fact that the College wishes these individuals to be liable for all that occurs at an event where alcohol is served .. The result is that any insurance thal a fraternity has for its corporation, officers and members will not cover an individual acting on his own. We have changed the above statement to read \only individuals over 21, acting on behalf of their respective organization, may sponsor an event at wltic]l alcohol is served.\ This means that the insurance that all fraternities are required to have will cover their individual members, but will still make the individuals responsible to the College for the party. Also, this statement will not change the College's liability in the event of an accident, but it will make the organization more responsible for its membe1s' actions, which in turn will lessen the chances ·Of an accident occurring. Continued on page 3 AttemptiQg to gain leverage for the 'Upcoming IFC proposed changes to the Social Policy, several members questioned the' liability of the College with respect to forcing twenty-one year olds to register all parties. The end result, according to the attorney, was that the College's liability wa~ not changed by having twenty~one year olds registering parties, rather than Greek houses. This prompted several people to suggest that the change was unnecessary. In addition, many people questioned if it would make more sense to have the Greek Whitn1an Scholar . · .... ..... Jn This . •··,lssuer· . ; ' ' ' ~ ' .,, , ~ ·Two: Uni,on .. stud~l'tts. M.ake ;: To Donates Schaffer Library NadCJn·wide · ,· ,T~p T:en •··. , ···page 5.·: · Harold W. Blodgett, a retired Union professor~ has generously given a substantial amount of Walt Wllitman books, notes and manuscripts . to the Schaffer Library. \This valuable gift will greatly enrich the sources for scholarship at Union by creating a very strong collection of Whitman materials,\ said Union 1 S President Morris. \In particular~ Professor Blodgett's own : .. Women's track ; • research notes will pf()vide a 1· · · · · · · · ·· · · treasure to be mined by . :rreinn Sets . Six · Whitman scholars white adrung •·. · . Union·· R~c~rds to the historical record or . · .... · -.p·-ge 23. ~. . sc~~~:::~rakY~~~~~~ chaired ' ,. . ,, ...... ·· the English 'Department and taught American Literature and Early 19th Century Poetry at Union from 1936 to 1965. His interest in Wah Whitman began when he was an undergraduate at Cornell University. He is the editor of several editions of Leaves of Grass, co-editor (with Robert E. Spilles}, of Roots of National Cu'lture: American Literature to 1830, author of W a I t Whitman in England, a contributor to Tbe Literary History of the U.S. and the New York University Press edition of The Collected Writings of Walt Whitman. Dining Services Offers. Variety Of Meal Options By ELISE FOODY News Editor In an attempt to \brighten the doldrums associated with winter term,\ Director of Food Services Janet Gray has . scheduled a variety of different dining specialties for the Union College community. throughout the lcrm. Students on the meal plan may sign up for these dinners for free (a punch on their meal card), members of the College community may purchase the meal for $12.95 and the general public may purchase the meal for $19.95. The Expose will feature on-campus \celebrity chefs\ as well as off-campus restauranteurs. The first of these meals is The most notable of these attractions is the fact that students who ate members of the Union meal plan are now permitted to use their meal cards after 7 p.m. each night of the week at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. Gray mentioned that the College decided to allow this procedure as a means of thanking the students for their patronage and to also encourage other students to sign on to the plan. · scheduled for January 27 and will be a Greek meal prepared by Professor and Mrs. Lambrinos and Professor Linda Patrik. The meal will feature authentic Greek food as well as mus.ic, dancing and various wines of New York State. The meal will be prepared in Upper Class Dining Hall. Within the next few years the Dining Service hopes to implement a computerized meal plan which would allow students to deposit a fixed amount of money into an account and receive a larger amount in actual buying power. Gray stated that, for example, a student may deposit · $200 into a meal plan account and actually receive $220 in buying power. Currently, however, students will be able to use their meal cards at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant until the end of this term. After this time period, · Dining Services will review the financial results of this procedure, and then determine whether or not it could be feasible in the future. In addition to this new procedure, Dining Services has also planned a \Culinary Expose\ which will feature several different ethnic dinners On .February 7, the College will celebrate the Chinese New Year by hosting Jimmy Lin, owner of the China Pavillion Restaurant. Mr. Lin will prepare Chinese food, and various Chinese beers and wines will also be available. There is also a strong possibility that a Chinese Dragon Dance and a Viet Fan Dance will be performed. This meal will be served in Hale HOllSC. On February 16, Civil Engineering professors Phil Snow, Greg Gifford and Paul Weiss will present \The Civil Chef: A Touch of Class Beyond Engineering.\ Their meal will be a continental meal featuring steak Diane, music and dancing. Bill Newman, owner of Newman's brewery, will also be J>resent to discuss ·the various facets of beer- making and the brewery business. The meal will be Continued on page 3 Photo of the Week: Yet another beautiful day smothers the Union campus.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, January 25, 1!190 NEWS ANALYSIS ' . . . \ Affordable Education In America: The Disappearing Drea,m? Courtesy of NSNS During the 1980s, the cost of getting a college degree skyrocketed while funding for higher education barely rose, according to recent studies. Wi til the burden of education funding falling increasingly on students' .shoulders, many are finding it more and more difficult to finance college, and many others are being priced out of an education entirely, .according to student leaders. Nationally, the average tuition at public colleges and universities has increased 23 .2% above the inflation rate over the last 11 years, according to a report from a Washington, DC research firm The same report shows that state spending for education has Public Schools ()o/o 5% ·n~ 78 '79· '80 '81- '82 nothing are now pricing low· income and non-traditional students out of the higher education market. \It's impossible to quantify how many people are being shutout of higher education,\ says United States Student Association president Julianne Marley. \To tell people that their state school is going to cost them $3,000 a year is so intimidating that many don't even apply. We know it's keeping people out.\ The cuts have been particularly hard on those who must work full-time or raise a family while in school. \It's been devestating for non- traditional students,\ .says Marley. \Child care is not counted as an expense when financial aid is calculated. The \At Oberlin, tuition has been increasing at twice the rate. of inflation for the past nine years,... DeCastro says. \Students here are raising hell and making it an issue of .access.\ School administrators have justified the tuition hikes as necessary to maintain faculty salaries. In their booklet, Nine Myths and Truths About Tuition, the Association of Governing Boards of Colleges and Universities states that, \Many colleges and universities are trying to compensate for the loss of income suffered by faculty during inflationary periods.\ But SET's Darnell counters, \The fact is, students have already paid for the galloping inflation of the 1970s by Tuiti:ons on the Rise Year-to-Year Increases in Average Tuitions and Fees at Four~ Year Public and Private Co/leges '83- '84 '85- '86 $1,694 '87· '88 '89- '90 Private Schools '77· 78 '79· '80 '81- '82 '83- '84 ed11cation costs, the federal g()vernment also had dealt major cuts to education fllnding. According to Janet Lieberman, legislative dire.ctot of the United States Student Association, support for federal fullding of higher education this year has been \nothing but ln<l news.\ Lieberman explains that l:letween the initial education cats in the current federai budget, and the new cuts ~clopted on November 20th as a :recsult of the Gramm-Rudman,.. }Iollings deficit reduction act, \'there was almost $100 million in cuts to programs Jil<e Pell Grants·, work study, md Perkins Loans.\ \Thousands of students are JJot going to be receiving aid '87- '88 ·ag.. '90 Increases in tuition and fees charged by colleges are from one academic year to the next. Aggregatse increases suggested by year-to-year data cannot be determined. Inflation rate taken from Consu111e.rPrice Index. Scales differ on the two graphs. Source: The College Board, The Bureau of Labor Statistics. NSNS risen only 1.3% above inflation over the same period. At the nation's private schools, tuition increased more than 35% above the rate of inflation between 1978 and 1989, according to statistics compiled from College Board data. \The bottom line is that many states are backing off from their commitment to making education freely available,\ says Jonathan Darnell of the Student Empowennent Training Project (SET), a national resource group for student government associations. \The evidence is clear. Students now bear 24.2% of the cost of their education, as opposed to only 20.7% ten years ago. Meanwhile, the share of state tax revenue supporting higher education has declined over the same period. 11 Many public colleges and aniversities that once provided quality education for little or impact this has on single parents is unbelievable. It says, \No we're not going to give you a chance to improve your life or your children's lives.\ Private schools are also feeling the crunch of tuition hikes. At Oberlin College (OH), students have organized to oppose tuition hikes they say will drive· the c.ost .of tuition, room and board above $20;000 in 1990-1991_ an increase of 9.7% over this year's bill. The cost of attending other . private schools such as Harvard University (MA), Stanford University (CA) and Bennington College (VT) is also more than $19,000 and likely to top $20,000 next year. \We feel abused by the large loans we have to take out,\ says Oberlin senior Steve DeCastro, one ·Of the organizers of the student campaign against hikes. DeCastro himself was forced to leave Oberlin for three years because he could not afford the school's tuition. paying three times as much tuition as they did 20 years ago. There is certainly no justification for further increases above the consumer price index. In fact, now is the time to start reducing the tuition burden to actually make some progress in broadening access.\ Administrators at private colleges and universities also argue that high tuitions actually help low-income students by creating a pool to fu?d !inancial aid p~gram~. Oberlm's DeCastro reJects thts explanation. \Increasing the price of education also increases the financial need of students, ... he says. 1 'Take the Oberlin College case. In the past ten years, for every 2% they have raised tuition, the financial aid budget has gone up 5% ... More affluent people are becoming financial aid recipients because tuition is going up.\ · At the same time that the states are forcing students to pay a larger portion of their that they would have gotten Iiormally,\ Lieberman says. \When you combine this with increases in tuition, students are really getting battered this ~ear. \Financial aid is .an jnvestment in the nation's future that can reap . many -dividends: increased revenues from taxes. increased productivity, and a more educated workforce,\ says Lieberman. \Unfortunately C(}ngress and the state legislatures are feeling the ·cmnch: of the budget for this fiscal year without considering the long-term fiscal welfare of students and the nation.\ · Jonathan :Darnell agrees, \The idea of having a system ·of public education is to encourage as many people as possible to go to college. In other countries, like Great Britain, students actually receive a stipend to attend,\ says DarnelL \Students in this country have to defend affordable education if they want to keep it~\ SPAA. Focuses On World Change· By BETH PINCUS During the '60s. Bob Dylan :recorded his hit song called, \The Times, They Are A- Changin'.\ Three years· ago, Billy Joel sang that same song during his concert tour of the Soviet Union. Even then, we could not begin to imagine the drastic changes that would come to shake our world. ' . The rapidity of world-wide revolution and the apparent dissolution of Comntunism makes it hard to keep on top of the most critical issues of our time. To keep Union students up-to-date on international, national, and local affairs, Students for Political Awareness and Action (SPM) has incorporated an informational sesson into each meeting. During the session. one controversial topic is explored and debated, on bpth a basic and more advanced level. SP AA has had two successful forums already. The first questioned the authority of the U.S. invasion of Panama, and this past week, we discussed the German chance for reunification and its possible consequences. Next week:s topic will be Animal Rights, followed by Liberalism and Conservatism on Campus -the next week. Please join us and share your views. SPAA meets every Monday at 7:30 p.m. in the College Center in Room 203. The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the following colloquium What's Wrong With Logical Analysis in Ethics and Mathematics by Professor Anthony Unger State University of New Yorkat Albany January 26, 1990 3:45 p.m. in Humanities 213 The~e will be a reception immediately following in the Ht1nlanities Lounge All . Colloquia are open to the public for further informatio:rrtelephonc 518·370•6376

I ~)~\~'~ f.·?' r~~\~ ,,~.,. t:,~'t';-,_,i\-li.t'; .. ,,,r~-c .. r~ CONCORDJENSIS, January 25, 1990 ?age 3 Tighter ' - Enfprcement Key To IF'C Success Cont'inu,.d from page 1 . Union College to have . • Greeks !liJd independents alike. The IFC does not feel that it dist.ti:b:utors delivering across It seems Lhat the present is unjust to have a group of the street fmm campus, or to : social policy wHl have the 21-year~old students sign the off-campus apartments. This effect of segregating the party registration form .• for this n~w proposal for a deLivery campus between the Greeks and will presumably mean that a . time would apply to any the independents, and among generally more mature group of , · deliveries by beer distributors, the Greeks themselves. The individuals will be responsible whether it be a non-alcoholic relationship among the Greek for the party. But we d9 feel delivery or not. .. houses at Union is also unique, that it is necessary that .the ; On the rule of prohibiting in that the only rivalries that individuals be acting on behalf • collection of funds for alcohol exist are friendly, competition of their organization, club, or frQm member'S, the IFC feels : oriented: ones. It would be a society, so· that they may be that this is a policy that should · shame to ruin this unique : properly pr.otected in t.he event be determined by each aspect ofUnion. of a lawsuit. It must be fraternity's national goven1ing In ciosing, the IFC believes understood that the IFC is not body. Currently? seven of ,the th~t many positive benefits can condoning underage drinking, fraternities on campus are be achieved for the Greek because our proposed policy . i restricted from collecting funds system and the campus as a states, ju.st as the College's f()r alcohol by their nationals. whole by creating a rational, policy <toes, that all NY State Wbile thi.s is certainly a good workable social policy. If the laws must be adhered. fO... mle, it should be a fraternity best aspects of both the current ' The IFC also feels that the policy that determines this social policy and the proposed ' prohibiting of alcohol issue, not a College policy. IFC changes can be merged, deliveries on campus is unjust. One of the factors that Union will hav.e an improved This rule will have no effect on . separates Union's campus from and more responsible social the amount of alcohol oth~:t campuses is the way in life. consumed by Union students. which the Greek system. is ---------------- IFC ENFQRCEMENIGUIDELINES Infractions A) Unregistered event Penalties 1st- 2 weeks probation 2nd,. 4 weeks probation 3rd- one term probation B) Not issuing invites or checking Un·ion I.D.'s 1st- $150 fine 2nd- $250 fine+ 2 wk. prob. 3rd- $3'50 fine + 4 wk prob. 4th- one term probation C) No alternative beverage or food 1st- $150 fine 2nd- $250 fine 3rd~ 2 weeks probation D) Not cleaning after event 1st- 2 week probation 2nd- 3 week probation 3r:d- one term probation E) Unauthorized beer delivery 1st- $150 fine + 2 Wk. prob. 2nd- $300 fine + 4 Wk. prab. 3rd- one term probation F) Event past allotted time 1st.- $100 fine 2nd• $300 fine 3rd- 2 Wk. probation. 4th- term probation The above guidelines will be enforced by the IFG Conduct Committee. If distributors will not be integrated with the rest of the allowed to deliver to the qimpus. At most colleges and campus, then alternate f<Jrms of universities, the social life is alcohol will· be purchased (i.e.; divided between the Greeks and hard alcohol combined with the independents. Fraternity drink mix). This rule will also par(ies are prohibited to those Culinary Expose Dinin·g Services Highlights Additions result in the increased use of outside of the Greek system, bottles and carts on the and as a result, the rest of the campus, which will :pose a cmnpus is forced t:o find safety probl~m, anq will do. . different social alternatives, nothing to enhance the which usually exist 'Off- College's visual image. ·campus. We do not want to By creating a s:pecific give the impression that delivery time, the fraternities should provide the transportation of beer by major portion of Union's social delivery trucks will be less life, but they should remain an conspicuous. It will most impottant part of the social life · definitely not look good for that is open to all students, ·- Student Forum Elections Positions .available: Freshman. President Freshman Vice-President Freshman Treasurer Sophomore Treasurer Elections will take place on Februg1ry 2. Those interested should .see Mrs.· Marra in Room 409 in the College Center in order to pick up petitions. Petitions due January 29 In addition, one Finance representative position is available. See Mrs. Marra for an application since this is an appointed position. Co~tlnuad from page 1 .served in Hale House. Pining Hall. Finally, on March 7, several young chefs from Ogden's Restaurant in Albany will be on hand to prepare a gommet feast for all in attendance. This meal will be prepared at Hale House. There is a 48 ho11r cutoff for sign ups for students wishing to attend the dinners by using their meal cards. Students may sign up for Lhc meals from 2-4 p.m. at the Dutch Hollow Restaurant. Professor Vinick wif prepare .. an Argentinian ij.inn<:?r on February 24 which wil feature . Spanish,. Italian and French : cuisine. The meal is scheduled • to be held in Upper Class · :· {~--------------------~---- ( SIG~ UP NOW! MARK YOUR CALEN-DARS The following lineup of. Culinary Expose's are coming up soon •SATURDAY, JANUARY 27, 1990 UCDH Grecian Feast, featuring guest chefs Professors Linda Patrik, Jim Lambrinos and Mrs. Lambrinos ~Food, Music, Dancing •WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 7, HALE HOUSE China Pavillion. James Lin & Co present a Chinese New Year • FRIDAY, FE,BRUARY 16 HALE HOUSE \The Civil Chefs\ featuring guest chefs Professor Phil Snow, Paul Weiss, Greg Gifford - A touch of class beyong Engineering ' • SATURDAY, FEBRUARY 24, UCDH Argentinian Extravaganza N Professor Haque! Vinicl<. A varied cuisine which features a triad of culinary influences - French, .Italian and Spanish • WEDNESDAY, MABCH 7, HALE HOUSE Ogdens Restaurant· Rated one of the area's very finest. All meals begin at 6:00p.m. Sign up in your Dining Hall. FREE to Union College students on the Meal Plan. $12.95 to Union College Community. $19.95 inclusive for .general public admissions. General Public Reservations: 370-6487. Student/Staff Reservations 2-4 p.m. M-F DHR* Wednesday and Friday Dinners will be at Hale House Dining Room. Saturday Dinners at Upperclass Dining Hall, . second floor, College Center. *Reservations clOsed 48 hrs. in advance of dinner date.

. Page 4 CONCQRDIENSJS, }Q.nual'y·2S,. ~99(1 THE REAliTY IS • • . WE: NEED YOU TO HELP. WITH tHE SENIOR GIFT DRIVE BETWEEN JANUARY 16!H AND FEBRUARY UNION COLLEGE 16TH. IF YOU ARE INTERESTED IN· BECOMING A CLASS rrEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES AGENT PLEASE CONTACT ANY CQMMITTEE MEMBER OR STACI DUPRE FROM THE A·NNUAL FUND OFFICE AT EXTENSION 6142. 1990 Senior Gill Committee Mary J o Conley i>a'!'id Wachtel Co-ChairmaD Dawn Buono.core Maurice Kauer Alysia Dashef Mary Kelly Eric Ducbscherer Kenya Lenoir Lina Leung Melissa Stewart John Meyer Alexandra Verner Kristen Ryan ** BIOLOGY STUDENT .R~SEARCH REPORTS MIKE MJ!tRilNEl - The Effect of Trichinella spl rla lis on EosLnoph1ls .· · CHARLENE SCHIWEDEil -.Analysis C1f Human Henppawsal Gonac!otr.opln- . · · Tfierapy for the Infertile Couple MELISSA Sf-E,~Ailf - Sex Chromosome Abl'io.rmallties ilcn Humans SARAH \\IUCB:X ·- Antioody Formation to Gonadottopln in Rats Thursday, Jan. 25, 1990 4:40 P.M. SOCIAl SCIE'NCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS · 4: 30 WBDTED EDITORS ** APPUCATIONS.AVAIL~BLE IN THE Dean of Students Office College Center, 306 APPLICATION DEADLINE: F&bruary I, 1990 QUESTIONS: ?'?? CALL 370 .. 61 i 6 370-6060 1\pck;n~!l\p{[ Pizza Pu[J .• . --..... . . . ~ ...... t.··-- ... Wee/({y speciafs . . ·free cfe{i'l!ery on campus SUPERBOWL PARTY/ This Sunday, Jan 28th 4:30 pm to 10:00 pm at the D.utch 'Hollow MANY SPECIALS - WINGS - BURRITTOS \( BREADED RAVIOLI and much ,more! Watch the Game With _Us! The Way you Like It! Call Us at 370-6060

FEA'TURES Come to the CHUC room and take advantage of a cornucopia of computer possibilites. \Whether you are writing a thesis, composing a resume,, orj\lst putting the final touches on a paper, CHUC is the place for you. CHUC is located in the basement of the Humanities building. Come Join, the Un,ion Nordic Skj Tearn on OLJr groomed tra;ck . -- .outside '-/'lebster 'Hou-se t\ \ \~ ,/ ~ -. \. \ l Every day (snow pending) at 3:30~// Free ski ad'Vice available. .1)/\ ,.- '.._-s--····r- .. __...,-t..,.. ........ ____ ~\'- .. ...,. __ .. --..~. . - .. ·-. -----------.----..r-·_.r J \. ~. ~--. ....-~-·. --- .. _,.,.. fof f •.,J.:..r/ j \\.-...:-.. .,·....___.;: - ,.a_ FREE! FREE! 1988 Yearbooks \~ Pick up your Free copy in Rm 408 College Center. Hurry!. While supplies last. -Garnet 2 Union ·Students Place In Top Ten of AT&T Challenge By DESMOND WARD Features Editor As reported by USA Today in the week of January 7th, Jim Powers and Raymond Tan were in ninth place out of 14-;000 participants in the AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge. Both Jim, an E~onomics major, and Ray, a student in the seven year medical program, are juniors he1e at Union. The team has followed the stock market ardently by reading several daily newspapers and watching nilancial programs on television. 1'he compethion started November 1st with the di•·ectors of the game issuing $SOO~OOO of play money Lo ea-ch participant of the game. With a fifty dollar entrance and rc~istratlon fee, the game attracted twenty Union Stmdents. The participants are allowed to invest up to $2:00;000 of their play money in: one stock, buy on tnargin, an-d sell according to the price of the stock. These transactions are completed by calling mock brckers employed. at AT&T. At the end of February, all tr!lnsactions must be completed. Tme results will be issued in the participant's portfolio - de.:termining the winner. The winner of the game will receive $25,000, a trip to the. Bahamas, and recognition of his/her ability sponsored by AT&T. Other cash prizes will be issued to second and third place winners. The rest of the top ten players will als() receive an all expense paid vacation to the Bahamas whicll gives Jim and Ray the incentive to follow the market until the end of the game. Jim's and Ray's earnings total up to $700,795. Through the game the two bought stocks of United Airlines, Proctor & Gamble, and various stacks in the computer software industry. The two are worried about market fluctuations which could knock them out of the top ten, but with another year ahead of them and another competition they have nothing to worry about Out of all tile college juniors, they arc ranked third which is a very reassuring position. Jim hopes to go in Lo a financial training program when he graduates from Union next year, while Ray will g() on to Medkal school in Albany for four years to complete his seven year medical program. The school wish the two of them luck in the next few weeks. C.D.C. - A Life Long Process By PETER KATZ Listed in the 1988-89 Student Handbook is the Career Development Center., Old Cllapel-- C'areer planning and implimentation is an on-going process wh-ich is part of a stodent's total educational exJ>eriencc. To assist in this process. the CDC ofiers career collnselillg. resource materials, and j()l:> search preparation to Union Students and alumni. On tl!e written page, this seems l'ilce a lot of psycho- babble, but if one were to go into the CDC, one would find out what's really ticking inside. According to Kathleen Shurick- Coll. Assistant Director of i:he CDC, career development is a three part cycle: from self- assessme-nt - helping students U!lderstand their individual interests~ values, abilities., and · gO!als; to career research - gaining information about va.r·ious career options by cx.ploring them through research and first-hand contact with professionals alreadx in the working world; to job se.arch - developillg and iirlplimenting an action plan fot findirtg a meaningflll career, an>d back to Self-assessment. -:Basically, the CDC helps the student in every facet of their ca.reer development. Miss Sllurick•Coll described the goal of the CDC to be · to teach students to work through this cycle for the future - not just nol - so they will be able to change in the future if needed. Throughout this campus, t.here have been complaints that the CDC is not helpful. Many times, however, according to Kate, these bad reviews arise because the student is expecting too much to quickly, they don't put in the essential effort it takes, or they become disenchanted if they don't get an appointment right away. Career Development is a process which all students must face. They need to be willing to put the effort into it, as much as the Career Counselors are. In addition to the three counselors who supervise and rllil workshops. career festivals, resume critiques, and interview strategies, there are five career assistants who act as paraprofessionals. They are students who have devoted themselves to aiding other students in their job search and self-assessment. Students who are unfamiliar with the CDC can just walk in and set up an appointment, a one-on-one meeting, go t<> workshops, or glance through the library to find summer employment and internships. Also, the CDC has drop in hours every weekday for those who want a quick ctitique of their resume, cover letter or other problem. While the counselors assume the CDC is for everyone, the statistics show otherwise 0 the Continued on page ti

' '. Page 6 r.~ ~·f , ·.·-•·, ~~·.·~ , • ._,{-. CdNCORDiEN'S/S, J~nuary 25, 1990. The Future By JON HENES The icy wind blew right through my body, freezing all of my functioning organs. I was walking, but I couldn't stop because ahead of me was my future; or that's what they told me. My breaths became short but I couldn't stop because my future was ahead of me; or that's what they told me. I couldn't feel the tips of my fingers or my feet, I felt as if I were being pushed by the icy wind. The books in my back pack, which· was draped over my shoulder, were frozen, just as I was, but they were my future; or that's what they told me. I had to trudge to class, to graduate, to make money, to work on Wall Street, or be a lawyer, or a doctor, to have a Porsche, to have status,. that is my future; or that's what they told me. I stopped walking and pondered my future. Were all these things my future? Did I need money and power and materials? Well, that's what they told me. Status, is that my future? Is that what life is all about? Is status happiness? Or maybe happiness is not included in the future? They didn't mention that. The wind was Mowing against my face, whipping through my body, the snow was covering me slowly and it we>uld soon totally cover me. I would have to climb and dig my wa'j out to the futlire. My future!. My future! Laughter ex:ploded from my stomach! 1 spun around and started walking from where I came. Tile icy wind stopped and a warm breeze blew. The snow began to melt and the trees began to bud. I could feel my fingers and my feet and I felt myself walk across the gropnd. M:y future; they told me! What did I tell me? Nothing! But no'W. I was telling myself. The money, Wall Street, Lawyers, Doctors, Cars,, Status, that might be my future, but only ifthat included happiness. I stepped into a small wooden boat and paddled into the middle of a lake. I lay back and looked at the endless sky wit.i. no closed doors. All the d(}ors were open in my sky. I was lying in the boat, in the middle of the lake, in the middle of the woods. in the middle of the world, in the middle of the endless sky, amidst all the open doors, and m)' frozen frown melted into a smile and I looked up at the en.dless sky, and I was happy and I was free; or that's what I told me! Jobs at C.D .. C. • • • Continued from page 5 majority of students who use it are seniors. However, there are opportunities for juniors, sophomores, and freshman to use it - for self-assessment, resume critique and finding summer employment. Along this line, the CDC is sponsoring a Summer Career Festival on Febmary 28. Kate stated that Union's CDC is comparable to other similar schools, if not better. She continued that Union has a comprehensive career library. good counselor assistants, an increasing number of workshops, and because of this, is \up there with other schools.\ Also, she said that Union is benefited __ by an excellent Alumni Career Network in which Alurnrtc aid students in various aspects of their career including interships, talks, and job opportuniLies. Other areas in which the CDC helps students is in the jol> search - they have interview workshops as well as mally on-campus interviews for perspective jobs. These are sponsored through their recJll.iting program. One problem the CDC does have is getting more students to ~come. They have tried several ways including their monthly newsletter~ announcements at meetings and wo1d of mouth. Kate added that the counselors ability to help depends considerably on the student's desire to commit time and to work with the counselor. It is a working relationship, that when done pmperly almost always ends in pleasurable results. One last note - Kate wanled everyone to know that if you're thirsty to stop in; they drink a lot ofsoda there. According to Dr. Spock, breathing can be hazardous to your children's health$ J\lr pollution l!i ull ~round us nntl1l hurt~< ~\htld~cn ltlft..oci!UriS. When mft,.-cllons are c::m1ple~l ~i th irritating ou 111 ,,..,, Kul ... mlaalc nuHt'Jlnllulll!li\>J)I'r ,'K•''''' lllhlll•Uitill\ pol!tll;1nts·thc U.tnmge to younglllllj,{S '~ Jlltt•maffcd ,.uultiiL'Ir lennrh tllcxpos11rc ~'i.lclll!'':r. wllHh inti' !.\ ... c:-. !,o do wlml Dr. Spocl{ rocummcntfs C111l urutrttc: thl·Jr n..,k ol pcr 111 ., 11 cnl d.m1agc. Ac!chtionally, rhiklrc·n . ~-· ·th~ 1-~ublic tnrnr111ntfo11 Ollice uf tJwSn·r1nChu) nnd 1 mti('l [(} h.wt• ,mmrrc.tSl\CI r.IIC 11f rt\iflll41101)' rr:, ~ .. ;, fil,ti nttl wlhll ynu C'Olll db lu help l·lt.:c\l'.!hU au \* SIERRA:·: f'uhhc 'nfOJm.1tmn 7:\0 H1ik~l1rel '),,,,J,.nRJMu,C..thli:•tni.a9·11U') ·115/li't• 2211 FEATURES -ro ~l'!TER~ ; CG\\ l -,e.401 S t:JP._ \ ~t~r, lAp iYl tr,e. Gt~Aden+ Ac.~'v•-hes ·-Off(ce- GC4oS . Something new under the s,un \ . . Union's Own COFFEE HOUSE - GOOD Coffee (politically correct even) Homemade Breads • Music A sort of sophisticated skeHar Stop in for a while and RECLAIM YOUR COLLEGE CENTER! 7:~0 - 10:30 PM FRIDAYS • CC302 CABARET Tonight at 9:00 p.m. ROOM 302 in. the COLLEGE . . . CENTER JFJ1f.JEJE WJJN(()J§ rnl}jril lP lJ ~~A . Presented by the Social Alternatives -Connnittee ' . 1 i '

I GONCORDIENSI$, l<muary 25, J!J90 Page 7 FEATURES .. WE NlEEID YOU ·~·~·~· FOR THE .PARENTS' WEE:KEND . CO.M,MITTEE We, The Rightminded By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR • lNQUlREAT DEAN OF STUDENTS' OFFICE COLLEGE CENTER, ROOM 306 Most people fail to understand the complexities of being right-minded aU the time. In a world dominated by those on the left, it is often difficult for those on the right to be appreciated, cared-for, or even acknowledged. Whether a right-'minded person tries to write ina.notebook or even use DEADLINE - JANUARY 25 A Plateful. of Questions Discussion series presents this week's question: \What if your roommate is - gay?\ Tuesday, l/30, 7:30p.m. a notched ladle, be or she is contin11ally confronted with the dilemmas of a right-handed world. · 4tlt floor lounge of the College Center The dominating right-handed world has kept the lefties in the closet ,(no !UOFe!) for all time, and has caused lefties to deviously plan their revenge someday. For now though, we have to find \little victories\ as they come, and a!l any lefty knows, th~ biggest of the little victories is in the form of an open seat on your left. Thes~ beams of light can often be found in such places as classrooms, luncll tables, and occasionally buses and planes. Next time you see an empty seat, count on a lefty being nearby. And kindly don't impose on his her territory. They have been known to be very territorial. All welcome I . . An· empty seat on one's left ·· uilleas.hes a world of HOW TO ENRICH YOUR EDUCATION BY$1000 . · .· ' . A MONTH. If :you~re a math, engineering or physicill sc£encel;i major, you could be earning $1::~~00 a month during your junior and seruor years. This excellent opportunity is palt of the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer C!lndidate Program. It's one of the most pr~stigious ways of entering the nuclear fie:ld- and rewarding, too. You get a $4,000 bonus upon entrance into the pi'.ogram, and $2l000 mote when you complete your Naval studies. You also receive a year of paid graduate-level training that's the most co·mptehensive in the world. And you'll acquire expertise with state-of-the-art nuclear reador and propulsion plant technology. i\s a Navy officer, you'll lead the adventure while gainil'lg bigh-lcvcl expe- i·ience that ·will help nuke you a leader in one of the world's high-lech industries. In audition to the professional advantages, nuclear-trained officers get an unbeatable benefits package, travel opponunities, promotions and a solid salar\;. Find out more abont the Navy Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program, and make your education start paying offlucJay. Call Navy Manage- ment Programs: 1-800-444~7134 Lt. Nielson will be at the Career Placement Center, January 26, 1990 ~t NAVY OFFICER You.areTomorrow. You are the Navy. opportunity to those born left- handed. When a lefty is ever so fortunate as to find one ofthese situations, she or he becomes a radical on the loose~'fhey arc able to write, eat, or pkk their nose as if they were real people! No complicati<Jns, no hesitation, just go for it! This subversive activity is usually soon squashed by an unfeeling left-mipded person, who sits down and imposes his right- handedness without even considering a lefty's right- mindedness. Now. if a. lefty were to impose on a rigbty ... stop the presses! The muffin- head's response is akin to this formula: \Excuse me?\ (xl) or the more subtle \Why don't you sit at a left-handed desk?\ (x2) with that accusing smile that only a righty can procure. Left-handed desk'? (y) Segregation!. (z) Blaspllemous! (x1+2+y=z). Let me tell all you righties now, that within 0ur lifetime, the day will co •. !e when at least half the desks in every classs are reserved for lefties! Even if we have to bus them in. For the time being, we the Right-minded must be patient, must wait our turn. Perhaps someday there'll be a Sandy Kovax Day in Lefty's honor. Umil then, we must take the small graces as they come, and appreciate them, even if we still have to usc the desk tucked away in the comer, out of sight, out of mind. We will overcome, though. We have learned to exist in cramped quarters, among inconsiderate boobs who know better. We are even more right-minded, because we learned to adapt. And always remember, left- handed people are the only ones in their right minds. Solidarity, brother! Are You A G.Y.E.? By LIZETTE SANTIAGO If you're like me tb.en you probably dread the moment wben you can no longer put off the worst, · mosr time consuming task facecf w lien· living on your own. Yes, you guessed it-- LAUNDRY! So begins the quest for quarters and the search for someone on your floor with some \extra\ detergent and, of course, fabric softener. As you trudge what seems to be every piece of clothing you own thr()ugh the hall, down the ·stairs, a11d into the laundry room, yo11 begin to wish there were an easier way. Especially when you find no available washing machine . Well, the thought has crossed my mind hundreds of times. Just as I was about to give up hope, an \angel of mercy\ named Dwight Pierre carne by and tacked up his flyer for Tucker's Laundry Service on the bulletin board. After reading over the flyer I recalled seeing a van with the same logo parked behind Davidson and Fox. So I asked, \Wily are you helping to promote this service?\ He replied that he worked for the business. After a short conversation with him I found that bis close association with his employer gave him an opportunity to see first hand how the business was run. \It's not as ,easy as starting your own lemonade stand,\ Dwight told me. In fact, there are a lot of responsibilities which might often deter an individual from even considering the possibility of entrepreneurial work. Hanging' out in the Coliege Center, soliciting customers is the easiest and most visible part of his job, as opposed to his other responsibilities. His most challenging and rewarding, yet least visible, aspects of the job are his interaction with the administration, customer relations; efficiency in sales negotations and other commitments. It makes me wonder how he finds time to be a full-time student, member of Black and Latin Alliance of Students (BLAS), vice-president of National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE), and still manage to maintain three other campus j.obs. For Diwght, there don't seem to be enough hours in a day to incorporate all of his activities. \Of course, it's not easy.\ He also confessed that although it was a lot of hard work and required a strong sense of commitment, he felt it gave him discipline, responsibility, training, and experience. After talking with Dwight, l couldn't help but think of him as a true G. Y .E. (Growing Young Enterpreneur). Wouldn't it be great if he invented a way to pick up homework. have it done and then deliver it back to students? SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION

CONCORDlENSIS, }tlnuary 25, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FE,ATURES The Other Side From York By DAN W AIBL.E \Is this article about our college?\ remarked my British mate after reading Concordiensis' November 2nd article that compared American and British education systems. In response to an assault on British education, I will present facts and personal impressions about \our college\ in York. British students begin the road to college at the ripe old age of · 14. The Concordiensis described the young British student's \soul search to discover what he actually likes.\ If this method was introduced to the American scene, our job market would be overwhelmed with policemen, firemen, and astronauts. Following a \Well what are your interests?\ session at the youth career development center, the young Brit is left with a decision of, shall we say, large magnitude. He/she must choose a curriculum, science or liberal arts, which limits career opportunities. At age 16, the end of mandatory schooling, the superhighway of education turns into a one-lane road for the elite-- 75% of students are eliminated and join the labor force. From age 16-18, students concentrate on learning very specific subject matter. If a student wants to continue on to college, he/she must take A (Advanced) Level testing which culls another 7% for the job market. The surviving 17% are distributed to various academic institutions according to a system of college prestige-test score correlations. According to C o n - cordienses, \If the student chooses to go to college ... \ STOP! and consider the element of choice in a system that can accomodate only 17% of the prospective pool of students. Compare this degree of choice in the American system, the largest in the world, which accomodates 50%. Until my junior year in high school. I wanted to drive a bulldozer. Now I know that our country Iieeds bulldozer operators, but I was convinced by a high school teacher that my intellect had greater capaCity than I had previously suspected. I hit the books for two years and W!JS rewarded with a Union acceptance letter. Hail, Union! for investing an interest in me-- for giving me a chance. · · While in York, all Union students must take a Contemporary Britain course which supplements our required college curriculum. The past two lectures have been devoted to British education. Our professor bluntly and regretfully informed us that this system \is good at providing an elitist education,\ it is \very liberal-- once you're part of it.\ This elitism creates social problems. For example, the 83% who do not benefit from the system are smart enough to wonder why their taxes support an education for the elite. Thatcher's administraton has addressed the social and political backlash by introducing a student loan program to take some of the burden from taxpayers; but we still are advised to avoid certain areas in town because the locals do not like college kids. Britain's education system serves its immediate economic needs. This is reflected in the world-class success of this little island. Sure, the system is efficient; but education should go beyond this - ours does. Britain's practical .approach to education suits Britian well, but the United States offers a different world of opportunity. Recently, Britain liberalized the system. The 1.988 Reform Act shifts the emphasis of education from practical to liberaL Soon, aU students age 16-18 will have to study math, English, sc.ience, history, geography, technology, musi.c, art, and physical education. The system of specialization has disintegrated. Union has reinforced its commitment to a quality liberal arts education with the implementation of th.e General Education Curriculum. If you do not want a liberitl education, do not apply to Union. Union is second to none in offering quality education. Union provides education to those of us who want it-- as an end in itself, as career qualification, or as a foundation for greater learning. Whether we put as much into our education as we expect from it is our choice. There are reaso11s to have faith in the American system. Just as we can Sllppose that some professors and administrators enjoy that which .they do; we cannot overlook the fact that some students actually like school and recognize our privilege to be part of Union College, and the American educationru system. CLUB NEWS Le Club Francais held a welcome-back party for those returning students from France. Fine French pastries and crepes helped to create the mood. Becky Thayer sang ballads, and all joined together to perform the Danse de Canard. Special kudos to Sonia Mitey and Natalie Rudko who organized the event. Thanks for the music Edgar! Be sure to watch the German movie next Monday night at 7:30 inthe 4th floor lounge of the College Center. WOMEN'S UNION a student support and action organization will meet from 12-1 pm in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center on Tuesdays A·LL UNION WOMEN WELCOME This Week l,n the Wo. rld . . Soviet troo.ps in Htmgary should .be withdrawn from the territo:r:y by the enq of 1991 as part of· the reduction of conventional forces in· Europe being negotiated by NATO and the Warsaw Pact, Jiunga.yy said. The ParUa~e·nt Qf Azerbaijan demanded the withdrawal of SoViet troops fr.om the republic's capital and threate11ed to secede from the SoVlet Union if the demarid was not met. News analysis: Mikhail Go rbl\chev may face serious threats to his · tottering economy, his · personal populatJ.ty and his efforts to form a new model · of Soviet federalism With his commitment to a prolonged occupation in Azerbaijan. A draft of the Hong Kong cllarter that will govern the colony after it reverts to Chinese control in 1997 was denounced by political leaders and businessmen. .Curbs on e~ports .of high technology to Eastern Europe are likely to. be relaxed, the Administration said. The move could open • up huge markets to A1nerican computer and . telecommunications eq~pment companies. Faisal al-Hussieni was . released from JaU op. bond as Israeli author.ities co ntrn ued investigating charges that the Palestinian nationalist helped organize violent activities in the Arab : uprising. The Presiden:ts o.f Lebanon and Syria met in Syria's capital and discussed ways to oust Gen. Michel Aoun. Lebanon's Christian leader, according to Lebanese officials. The case of th.e priest killing• in El Salvador has · a twist that has aroused , much curiosity: why was the officer who blew the whistle on the suspects detained, publicly identified and presumably exposed to • reprisals? .Soviet military power in Vietnam has been reduced, · · according to Pentagon· officials, who satd that Moscow has withdrawn an• ofits MtG-23 fighter planes and about half of its 'fU -16 · bombers from its base · · there. · A. state of siege in H;aiti was ordered o.n Satur~ay, according to its ruling >General. The Government has reportedly begun · -expelling political leaders and at least one :presidential candidate is :said to be In hiding. A Polish crew that was :kidnapped ~by guerrillas of ' the Eritrean People's · Liberation Front was released unharmed in the Sudan after three weeks tit captivity. Dismantling secret • security forces is an emerging problem in • Eastern Europe where many · new leaders have a limited knowledge . of the structures and operations of the forces. LAN:GUAGE TABLES Mondays: French, H:ebrew, Russian - 12:30-1 :30 Tuesdays: Chinese·, Ital-ian_ 12:30-1:30 Wednesdays: Germ_an, Jap~nese, Spanish 12:30~1 :30 u . . ' WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES

' ., l . CONCORDIENSIS 1 JanuarY' 25, 1990 Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES lNTERNATIO:NAL TRIVIA h What produces-more wine.,.- North Amedca or · South America? 2. Wh~t class is ypur seat on a European train if your window bas a yellow ]tle above it? 3. What part of Africa gets its name from an Arabic word for wilderness? 4. What appropriately named West German city saw 3 McDonald's restaurants open at the same time in 1976? 5. Wl1at country is the origin ofthe chUled soup called Gazpacho? 6. What African country's U.S. bank assets were frozen on Janl;laty,S, 1986? 7. What 1816 R6sslni.ope:ra is·setin Spain? 8. What European country do tliousands visit annually to make a pilgrimage to Fatima? 9. What's the most spoken lang11.age in Ireland? 10. What countly produces the. most garbage? ·s·o ~m ·or qsn~ug ·s IB:6npod ·g d[{r.AaS JO .x~q.reg ~ttL · L . BAQYJ ·g UJBdS ·g ~.:xnqt:rreH ·v BIBt[13S ~ll:l \£ 1s.IJ.!l • (; BOJ:.I:llliUV tnnos ·r Remember to reapply for financial aid Jscholarship. • lo~n • work st11dy) BY APRil 15tH Applications avail_ahle.~t the Union CqiTege Finandal llid ()ffice 2nd Floor, Becker :Hall • ~!D-6123 Do You Know? January 27 this year is Spring Festival, the most importailt traditional holiday on the ·Chinese calendar. It is actually New Year's Day by the lunar calendar, and usually occurs sometime in February. lt is a time fot family teuni()ns, lots of good things to eat and drink, and friendly social calls. Preparations usually begin weeks before lhe holiday. · People are .busy cleaning hoyse and .putting Up special . decorations, and shopping for food: and gifts. Traditionally, especially in the countryside. colorful j)apercuts are pasted up on wi~ndows. New Year pictures featuring legendary characters or symbols of good fortune are pasted on doors, and pairs of couplets are hung on the d()orposts. These last are · writtem in fine ·calligraphy, usually on long strips of red papet; Spring In the old China, when most people were illiterate, the few who <:otlld write were employed to create appropriate: couplets for the rest of the villagers. Today- printed couplets are often bought in stores, or else anyone whose handwriting is particlllarly good does the inscriptio11s. The lines of the couplets are often from famous poem~ or old sayings, and the sentinents expressed are all about people's hopes for happiness, heaHh, good harvet>ts, family harmony and .prosperity. SboiJping for 'the holiday is a major undertaking, for Spring Festiv~ is a time when family melll'bers are together and have moreleisure to prepare special meals in .a relaxed atmosphere. Chicken, duck, fish, meat and fresh ~egelables are essential. Each t'amily also has on. hand fresh -<>r dried fruit, pastries, Reconsidering The Panama Inva.sion By JON KELLER Following the capt:u['e. of General Noriega and tile subsequent demilitarizati()n of Panama, George E11sll's approval rating soared 111xlve 70%, a figure unheard .()f since the Kennedy administrati()n. Obviously, the Am el'kan people stand overwheb:n i11gly in SUpport of Operation Just Cause. This is more tllan understandable, when :you consider the outcome o.f tile invasion in terms ~f its intended goals. First of all, democracy was resto:ted to Won't the invasion be seen as though the US took sdyantage of a politicaUy weakene<d Soviet Union? Panama, as the En d~ra government took office soan after Noriega was forced t<> flee . Secondly. General Norie~i.iwas captured and, will eventually be tried. S.o far. it still sound~ like u successful mission. 3ut, upon closer examination ()f the greater issues at stake,_ tile invasion no longer seems~uite as appealing as it once di<L When viewed within. the context of U.S. - Soviet relations, the invasio11 is anything but prudent. Mr. Gorbachev is ahell<ly experiencing more troubl~ tllan he would care to admit. His economic reforms are sputtering. His political pi()\Vcr base, the communist party, is rapidly losing its legitimllcy. The ethnic disputes arc ra~ing everywhere in the republics, particularly in Azerbltijan, where the Popular Fmnt is threatening to secede from the Soviet Union. Thus, tlle question arises, can Mr. Gorbachev deal with a11otller abuse of Perestroika llnd Glasnost, the heavyh~nCied Festiva;l: candy; tea, wine and beer to entertain guests. ·Workers in governrnoent departments, factories, mhnes and other enterprises are off work for three days. Actually. most people try .to finish the:.ir work early on the eve of tb.e festival and then rush home to prepare for the evening family reunion feast which is an cld feature of the holiday. A.ll family members who c:atl possibly make it home t1y to do so, even if they must tr1:uel long distances. The btlsie.st people on this day are .the cooks. Formerly. this used to be exclusively the wome11's job, but now many men shltre in this task. alld are even pt()ud of their skill as chefs. After dinner,~most families settle down to watch the special holiday variety sh()W on TV, which lasts for hour~. As they watch, they make jia()Zi (Chinese-style ravioli · YWith interventionism of the United States? Won't the invasion be seen as though the United States took advantage of a politically weakened Soviet Union? Hearken back to the late 1970's, when the situation was quite different. Back then it was the United States who was demoralized, who had been defeated in Vietnam, who had to endure Watergate. The blatant opportunism that the Soviet Union demonstrated in invading Mghanistan has much in common with our Panama invasion. It is destabilizing to our delicate relationship-with the Russians. With regard to the crimes that General Noriega is charged with, we must also consider the legal questions involved in the case. It is within the limitations of both moral and international laws to launch a fuU-scale invasion ·Of a sovereign state, with the intent to extradite a sitting head of state? Secondly, though Noriega has been charged with crimes int he United States, do we really have the right to try him in our country? After all, the crimes he committed against this co·untry certainly pale in comparison to the crimes he has committed against his own people. To cite a few, he stole the results and nullified the elections in Panama; his secret police apprehended, tortured, imprisoned and executed members of dissident political organizations. He was their Ceaucescaru. Why shouldn't the Panamanians have the right to try him themselves, as the Romanians did? By forcibly extraditing Noriega, are we not depriving both the Panamanian meat and other kinds of fillings). In the old days, jiaozi were supposed to be particularly auspicious, scaring away evil spirits, misfortune or disease. Today this is just a well-loved dish, associated with the holiday as closely as turkey is to Christmas in many Western countries. Just at midnight, a barrage of firecrackers' breaks the silence of the night. This may go on for an hour or more, as children and teenagers in the village courtyards or outside city apartment buildings, compete to see who can produce the biggest bang. By custom, many families stay up very late, or e.ven the whole night, playing cards, laughing and chatting or telling stories to the children. Children ate presented with gifts of money from their parents or other relatives. On New Year's Day in some places, including Beijing, going to a traditional fair, often sponsored by a temple, is a popular old pasttimc. Stalls at judiciary and the En~ara government of their sovereignty? Or, perhaps General Noriega shou1d be tried by the World Court .of the United Nations, since his It is also true that democracy has been restored to Panama. crimes affected the enure western hemisphere. The invasion has been a difficult thing to criticize, largely because of1ts apparent success. Yes, it is true that Noriega has been ousted. It is also true tllat democracy has been restored to Panama. But, we must again consider the age old question which permeates the debate on American foreign policy: Is tile United States to function as the police force in an evil world? Arc we to right every wrong? The question can not be answered with a yes or a no. But, consider the question once again within the context of the events which have occurred over the past year. A worldwide democracy movement is full-blown, as the remnants oftotalitarianism are being swept away. Communism has lost irs legitimacy, but nor because of war and bloodshed. The weapons used in this ideological struggle arc words and ideas. Words and ideas which arc developed from within, not forced from the outside. Freedom cannot be externally imposed as it was in Panama. It must be internally conceived, as it was throughout Eastern Europe. the fairs sell local delicacies, handicrafts, books, calligrapby and painting, and useful daily products. There are folk performances such as stilt- walking, in which brightly costumed performers impersonate figures from legend and history, music and storytelling. Tile second and third days of the holiday are a time for . people to visit friends and relatives, usually with gifts of cake or pastries. The exact customs vary in different parts of the country. People in North China traditionally serve their guests tea plus fresh and dried fruits. In Guizhou province in the southwest, guests arc served sweet glutinous rich- flour balls, and must eat four of the egg-sized balls at each home they visit. Urban people go back to work on the fourth day, though in some rural areas the holiday may go on even longer, as it did in the past. But the habit of eating jiaozi on the fifth day has not changed.

Page 10 ClJNCORDIENSIS, .January 25, 1990 INTERNATIONAL; FEATURES Lessons From An \Accidental Tourist\ - . . \ - . . . . ~ By BECKY THAYER Let me begin by saying that taking a tenn abroad is one of the most incredible experiences you could ever have. There is no better way to experience another country, get a good grasp of the language as natives speak it, and learn to appreciate their culture. I was not too sure that I wanted to go somewhere for ten whole weeks to live with a bunch of people that I didn't know and who don't even speak tny langu.age. Fortunately, I had people~ prod me into taking a term Jbroad to France. Quite frankly, by the end of the tenn~ I wouldn't have minded staying for the rest of the year. To many people, especially those that have gone on term abroad and felt the same way at the end of the term, that may not seem like such a strange notion. However, for those that went with me and those that have heard tales of my experiences it may seem that I completely lost my mind. Allow me to share with you some of the wealth of knowledge that I gained through my experiences. Perhaps one day you may benefit from it. Lesson One: Should you be one of the courageous individuals who chooses to try and have a relationship -with someone abroad; 1) for all plans you make with him/her, have Plan B ready just in case, especially if he/she has the habit of not writing or calling. 2) Be sure that you speak a language that his/her mother speaks also. You may end up spending a lot of time with mama while your ex goes to visit your replacement. During my Toussaint vacation I was most fortnuate to be able to practice my French extensively with a non-native speaker who did not speak English. Lesson Two: There are two night trains that go from Paris to Brest via Rennes (where the Union program is based). One of these is all . couchettes (sleepers). If you, like me, don't wish to pay the extra ten Lesson 1: • • • be sure that you speak a language that his/her mQther speaks also. thinking how you are going to . convince the conductor not to charge you for the couchette because it is only a three and a half hour .ride and there are not any seats, and suddenly you see another train to Brest across the tracks. that has. all seats, but it is almost time to leave, so you grab all your stuff and rtJn without thinking to stop and check, (whew, that was a lot!) you WILL drop it. Then the conductor will come for your ticket and you will not have your Eurailpass to show him. Lesson Four: If you do buy a Eurailpass, do what they tell you and detach the validation . slip. Whatever you do, DO NOT put it in your neck pouch with your p'ass. t>o keep it dollars for a bunk bed for a with y~u. though. Should yo11 three-and .. a-half ride, don't ever be· in the above situation despair. Simply look across the you will need to show it to tracks and you will see another the conductor as the other five train to Brest that has all seats. people in your compartment Now pay attention here. Your are looking at you and saying have no need to grab all your \Those damn Americans.\ stuff at once, ~un acr?ss the : Lesson Five: Be prepared f<lr tra~k so as ~ot t~ miss the _ SNCF to go on strike as soon tram. It left five mmutes late. as you lose something and You can, therefore, check to have to call Lost and Found to see th~t you . have all your try to retrieve it. Do not botller bel~ngmgs With Y?U before to try and retrieve your things, getting on. That brmgs us to just cancel what you have to lesson number three. and go back to Paris to replace Lesson Three: If you have a your passport and traveler~s neck pouch to carry your checks. This brings u~ to· tlie passport, taveler's checks, next lesson. Eurailpass, money, VISA card, Lesson Six: The American student ID, bus pass, meal Consulate is off of Place de la card, HY A card, driver's license Collcorde (go the left when you and all other mecessary and get <>ff the Metro). Their metal important cards and ID, DO detectors pick up everything NOT REMOVE IT FROM when they search you, even·tbe YOUR NECK FOR ANY foil wrapping on y 0 ·ur REASON OR LENGTH OF lifesavers. So empty your TIME. Trust me on this. The pockets well or be laughed at one time you do, such as when very heartily each time yoa you are on a train to Brest pull something else out of waiting for it to leave, your pockets. When you are Student-Alumni Association T.A.S.T.E. (TAKE A STUDENT TO EAT) Saturday, February 10, 1990 Sunday, February 11, 1990 Are you interested in joining one of our Alumni and their family for an evenirrg of fine food, conversation, and reminiscing? If you are. you'll want to sign-up for TASTE! Sign-Up Deadline:~ February 1 s1 Contact: Alumni Office 370-6168 -THE RUSSIAN CLUB- and the Modem Languages Dept. present A Five Part Series of Historical Films 2nd Part: IV AN THE TERRIBLE, PART I Thursday, January 25'• 7:00p.m~ CC406 in Russian with English subtitles. Refreshments served asked to present a picture ID to the Marine on guard and of courSe you don't have any, tell him that it all went with the passport. He will laugh and take pity on you. Once inside, fill out your form and request that they type you a letter to take to American ExpFess so you can replace your traveler's checks and pay the $42 to replace your passpo:rt. Note: At AmEX, when the guy in Brighton gives you the okay and asks to speak with his colleague, do not hang up the phone. Tell the lady behind the desk to pick up. She gets pissed if you hang up and she has to call .back. You can replace your Eurailpass at Gare St. Lazare for 50 francs with your new passport. Lesson Seven: If you. have lost your bus pass in an unfortunate adventure such as above and have to buy tickets, do not buy the hebdo carnet. Buy regular tickets so that if you lose your ticket· for the day, you can just use another. This way, if the bus police check you~ they cannot charge Lesson 5: • .• Be prepared by SNCF. to go on strike as sQ.on .. as you lose something • • •.. you the 7 5FF fine for losing that day's coupon even though you have all the others. Oh, and by the way, you don't have to pay on the spot, so if he tells you to, tell him ... well, maybe I shouldn't say that here. Just take your ticket alld leave the cpuntry, especially if the term is about to end. Lesson Eight: If all this has • • )! . ' happened to. you, double check everything you do coonstantly. Face it, y0ou•re a dit~ and you are bound to mispJac·e everythin.;g. Pay . special attention the moming that you leave that you h&.ve your VISA card in your •band as. well as - your airline ticket. · Eurailpass. and pasr;pcrt (you don't have to worry about anything else, became you lost it aU, remember?). B. y doing ·this you will Rot be frru1tic Md miss your train and have to search tlu'oQgb. all yow 1uggage irl search ofyour VISA because that is all J'OU have :Jo five off of for the next three weeks. And besicles, the next train you wilt .have to take will stop in every. towa between the north of France alld the south of France and you will get there the nextday. Ninth and finallessoll: rf the train you are taking goes to two different destinations, for ex:ample St. Gerv\'is and Ttirino, and you are going to Turino, be sure you; g~t on a car marked Turino or yon will be well on your way to St. Gervais .before the conductor tells you that you shtOuld have changed two sto,ps ago. However. sllould yo·u happen to do this on a W~dnesday morning yo11 will abe able to poke ·abont the W~aitesday morning market at Aix-les- Bains, a fonnidable e:xperiencc for any student tr.aveler. And thus: concludes my WE>rds of wisdom for student travelers. Witb thes;e tips in mind, -your term abroad will be the experience of a lifetime {maybe not quite as exciting as mine, but it takes a special sort to get into so mucb sh_. in one month}. So, I bid you adieu et born· vQyage! wecansee. eartllaslt lly is. This small. pale baH floating the vastness of space:. Cliearly with its. Vulnerable. fragile. For almost lOOyears the :Sterra Club has been fighting to p!l'()tect the earth~s fragile systems. We have sue· cessfully lobbied for laws tCJ Hmlt air and water polluthon.and tcaegulate poisonous tmdc chemic~IJ's, We have won protection for swamps and · meadow!f;· rivers and mountains, deserts and prairies •.. those: natural places Which perm It the earth to heal and renew itself; Wehaveccntsistently iiiiiji!ii~iiiiiiii~~~~~ been an effective voice for a world ·s·· ·1·· p.· RRA·•··· .·· · ·· · hea. lthful for au its inhat:>.'ltamts .• · · .L..J. . .· The unjque power of the Sierra Club I . c· .. L 0 ... 5 .. springs from our active grass·roots · · . • . . membership .. , volllnteers wl:lp give . . . . · . . · freely of their time af!d expertise .. If you want to pattitCipate in this~ work. or share in the sa;tlsfaction oflt through a supporting mem bershlp, contactthe SiemtCiub, 730Polk Street. San Francisco. CA 94109, (415)' 776·22U.

UNION COLLEGE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGICAL SClENCES . THE BlOloGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present Dept of Physiology Morehouse School of Medicine Atlanta, GA d \BONE LOSS R~ESUL TlNG FROM OVARlAN FAILU:RE\ Thursday, Feb. 1 , 1990 4:40P.M .. ·SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 CONCORDIENSJS, January 25, 1990 Page 11 ORIENTATION COMMITTEE ·o.c Applications are being accepted in the Dean of Students office. Pick up forms from Mrs. Facenda APPLICATION' 'DEADLtNE: February 9, 1990 GOOD· NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be ' (HU 01 0). All are welcome to attend. Sche4ule;· shown in the · Language Lab MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS &'FRIDAYS: TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: ; - MONDAY-FRIDAY ; 8:30AM-4:30PM ' SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-I O:OOPM HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00PM News progrmns t{ln: also transmitted from many ot/z«:r cvwltries and will be necrmded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinqrfly, they are kept in t!w lab for two wee h. For ,more infqr'tlzatic>n, call Carol Snydc1; Language Lab Teclm ician, X621t6~ ~~when I call Mom, she either wants The Women's Commission is setting up a committee to celebrate the to talk art or football Usually 1botbalJ7'Y Go ahead, call her up and let her know the score A JO,minute coast-to-coast call~ dialed direct am time, any day with AT&T, costs less' thun $3.00.* And with fast C< mnections and immedi ate credit for wrong numbers, how can you miss? FOr more information on AT&T Long Distance Sr!ruice, and products like the AT&TCarcl, call 1 800 525-7955, Ext. 100. '1\dd applicahl~ 1axe~ and 'urcharge,. · A TaT The right choice. 20th anniversary of women stud.ents at Union next fall. Anyone interested in working on this committee may contact Joanne Tobiessen at 370-6176 Special for College Students PERMS ~ $25 STYLE CUTS FOR WOMEN- $9.00 MEN .. $6.00 !]{air tJJesigns 'By ... ?{JI(KJ I WALKeJNS rf t\ WELCOME U 1689 Van Vranken Ave., ·.Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 NIKKI DiMATTEO CARM DiMATTEO 370-5238

Page 12 CONCORDJENSlS, January 25, 1990 <HJlttOlrhitttsts• _LE_.TT_ER_s _______ __ ------Founded at Uni&n College 1877-c--- The Search Is On As Union enters a new decade, it is faced with many challenges, but also with great opportunities. The challenge at hand is to find the right successor to President Morris. The fiscal legacy of Morris wi11 afford the next president to take a more active role in the internal affairs of the school. Morris' duties and activities as president have gone relatively unnoticed by tbe student body. The students would welcome a. president who is a greater part of tile daily ro11tine of the College. The ulitmate liaison and ambassador of the College, the new president will b:ave the opportunity to break down the barriers between the campus and the community. Both the school and Schenectady would benefit from greater interaction. Some steps ltave been made in this direction (for example Big Brothers, Big Sisters). There is a willingness of students to get involved. However, judging by the a()stility on both sides~ this is still an untapped source of growth for the College. In add it on to becoming more visible and available to the surrounding comrn unity, the president would have the opportunity to work closely with students thereby benefiting all those involved. A president who is constantly traveling might be fattening the bank accoumt, but his absence is a deficit to us.. all. Fund raising is important, but equally important is for the students to know how a11<i why this money is raised and where it will be allocated. In this transitional period, the ne:xt president should be young enough to be a constant source of stability amid the varial>les sure to come. That is not to say that the s..chool should tnake a Quay lean selection, but among similarly qualified candidates, youthfulness and potential longevity of service should be a consideration. Some of the issues that the next president will have to address have already presented themselves. Tuition, Greek life and the Nott Memorial are some of the prominent examples. Tuition has been rising at staggering 1ates, even as the College is as fiscally sound as it has ever been. Union is the mother ()f fraternities and yet the school has equivocated its positio11 regarding the fate of these organizations. The school must decide upon a plan for restoring the N()tt (or not) and act upon it before further delay leads to further dilapidation. The president should be the most educated and wordly member of the College, an<l everyone should have the opportuntiy to benefit from his experiences. Even if a student is never part of a club or organization that happens to be: invited to The President's House for dinner, fh:at student should be given the occasion to meet the president. As it stand, it is possible fo1 a student to go four years without even so much as shaking the hand of the president. One fornnn for such interaction could be the classroom. No one should be more qualified to teach; and the students would surely welcO>me the c:h:ance to be taught by such a scholar. For the past decade, Union College has profited from President Morris' financial wizardy. For the nex.t decade, we should coUect our divi{ferids. Union Sponsors ''Menstrual Journey'' To the. Editor: It is with utter dismay. mounting anger and profound disgust that I recently received and read a flyer advertising the ~ppear:ance on campus of J uditb Barr, psycllotherapist and peet, who hs to regale us, students and filculty, with a \dramatic preseatatoll... exploring the meanillg ofmenstruation.\ The presenta1ion. purports, by means of . a \menstrual journey\ to ''reclaim OUR [emphasis added] deep feminine selves.\ Let it be known that I, as a woman, ha,ve never relinquished my \deep feminine self\ and do not stand in need of \reclaiming\ anythin.g; least of all through any public exploration of a biological fact of life which is (l} private and (2) inevitable. The menstrual cycle is neither a \sacred period\ as is being touted (the play on words in this expression strikes me as extremely tasteless), 11or is it a fetish to be glorified even in what· passes for poetry, It is an -insult to my .feminine sensibility and to my sense of decency in genetal to . see it dragged ontQ the floodlit stage in the name of some sort of \cdebration with other women.\ It deeply .saddens.me that our mighcy English department and our trusted Philosophy department should stoop so low as to sponsor such a presentation at Union. Have they no better use to make af funds and time available to them foraca<:emic pmposes? Sincerely, Nrulja Jemakoff Mooem Languages Dept. On Campus Drinking Safer To TheEdit()r: The new set of requirements that Unioll has added to the former college policy regarding alcohol use on campus, is more usefal f<>r legal purposes than for the purpose of the studen:t. The New York State law which .states that minors can not lawfully possess any form of alcoholic beverage with the intent of consumption, forced Union to rearrange the e;Kisting poli,cy. Tile New York State law concerning alcohol use and the awful1eport that the Metroland newsp.aper wrote about college · drinking, in which Union and its fraternities were unrighteously slaughtered, put press11re on the College to change its policy. The newly existing policy is actually less adequate in regarcb; to t.l!e students safety. The New Yor1c State law will actually change very little for its students are willing to commit a felony by altering licenses, finding way around the state law would, in most cases, be less risky. Unicm's drinking policy is much stricter than that of many other sch()ols. Skidmore, for example, sponsors parties in which alc<>hol is served and a truck wllicll serves beer frequemly visits the campus. Hamil1on and Dartmouth, on- the otlier hand. have keg parties in the dorms. Tile precautions that Union is taking abides by the law and places tlfe liability upon the 'studen.ts as the New York State ALL LET1ERSTOTIIE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPAcED, AND SUBMI'ITED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P~M. ONTEU3 TUESDAY PRECEEDlNG WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER F1VE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. law intended :to. Unfortunately, the law did not take into consigeration that there are few problems . wit~ alcohol at colleges. · This new law hurts minors more than protects them, because it will not .stop minors from drinking and because it makes it harder to ()Vtain the alcohol minors wiH put themselves out even me>re. College students are mature enough to make their own decisions and peer pressure is not an issue at 1his level. The committee that changed the New York State law concerning alcohol must not realize that in college situations drihking should not be cracked down up<>n, going to fraternities. is ·more of a so~ial. visit than .a way in ·which to obtain alcohol. On campus drinking is much safer and unfortunately the makers of the law are hurting colleges because they are not taking into consideration that the students are safe:ly drinking on their campus. By making a new law they are forcing colleges to change tfueir present laws. It seems as if the makers are beyond understanding that they are not benefiting anyone. The harder it is for minors to drink the.moreproblems Union will have off campus. Students will be going to area bars and then driving intoxicated, which only leads to unforseen problems. Sybil Zanger

Page 12 <ltnnrnrbirnsis ---- FQ u nded at Union College 1877--- The Search Is On As Union enters a new decade, it is faced with many ch.a.llenges, but also with great opportunities. ne challenge at hand is to find th.e right successor to President Morris. The fiscal legacy of Morris will afford the next president to take a more active role in the internal affairs of the school. Morris' duties and activities as president have gone relatively unnoticed by the student body. The students would welcome a president who is a greater part of the daily routine of the College. The ulitma.te liaison and ambassador of the College, the new president will have the opportunity to break down the barriers between the campus and the community. Both the school and Schenectady would benefit from greater interaction. Some steps have been made in this direction (for example Big Brothers, Big Sisters). There is a willingness of students to get involved. However, judging by the hostility on both sides, this is still an untapped source of growth for the College. In additon to becoming more visible and a vail able to the surrounding community, the president would have the opportunity to work closely with students thereby benefiting all those involved. A president who is constantly traveling might be fattening the bank account, but his absence is a deficit to us all. Fund raising is important, but equally important is for the students to know how and why this money is raised and \vhere it will be allocated. In this transitional period, the next president should be you:ng enough to be a constant source of stability amid the variables sure to come. That is not to say that the school should make a Quaylean selection, but among similarly qualified candidates, youthfulness and potential longevity of service should be a consideration. Some of tile issues that the next president will have to address have already presented themselves. Tuition, Greek life and the Nott Memorial a.re some of the prominent examples. Tuition has been rising at staggering rates, even as the College is as fiscally sound as it has ever been. Union is the mother of fraternities and yet the school 11as equivocated its position regarding the fate of these organizations. The school must decide upon a plan for restoring the Nott (or not) and act up<Jn it before further delay leads to further dilapidation. The president should be the most educated and wordly mentber of the College, and everyone should have the opportuntiy to benefit from his experiences. Even if a student is never part of a club or organization that happens to be invited to The President's House for dinner, that student should be given the occasion to meet the president. A~ it stand, it is possible for a student to go four years without even so much as shaking the hand of the president. One forum for such interaction could be the classroom. No one should be more qualified to teach, and the students would surely welcome the chance to be taught by s~:tch a scholar. For the past decade, Union College has profited from President Morris' financial wizardy. For the !'!ext deC':lC't' ~ \.•'f' ~: ho~1111 co llf\l.\'t nnr rtivictf':nck CONCORDIENSIS, January 25, 1990 LETTERS Union Sponsors \Menstrual Journey\ To the Editor: It is with utter dismay, mounting anger a11d profound disgust that I recently received and read a flyer advertising the appearance on campus of Judith Ban; psychotb.erapist and poet, who is to regale us, students ami faculty, with a \dramatic pre sen taton... exploring the meaning of menstruation.\ The presentation purports, by means of a \menstrual joumey\ to \reclaim OUR [emphasis added] teep feminine selves.\ Let it be known that I, as a woman, have never relinquished my \deep feminine self\ and do not stand in need of \reclaiming\ anything, least of all through any public .exploration of a biological fact of life which is (1) private and (2) inevitable. The menstrual cycle is neither a \sacred period\ as is being touted (the play on words in this ex)lression strikes me as extremely tasteless), nor is it a fetish to be glorified even in wllat passes for poetry. It is an insult to my feminine sensibility and tC> my sense of decency in general to see it dxagged onto the floodlit stage in ~he name of some sort of \celebration with other women.\ It deeply saddens me that our mighty English department and o1:1r trusted Philosophy department should stoop so low as to sponsor such a presentation at Union. Have they no better use to make of funds and time available to them for acacemic purposes? Sincerely, Nadja Jemakoff Modem Languages Dept. On Campus Drinking Safer To The ·Editor: The new set of requirements that Union has added to the fotrner college poli.cy regarding alcollol use on campus, is more useful for legal purposes than for the purpose of the student. The New York State law which states that minors can not lawftdly possess any forrn of alcoholi..c beverage with the intent of consumption, forc-ed Union to rearrange the e.xisting poli,cy. The New York State law concerning alcohol use and the awful report tllat lhe Metroland newspaper wrme a.bout college drinldng, in which Union and its fraternities were unrighteously slattghtered, put pressure on the College to change its policy. !he newly existing policy is actually less adequate in regards to the students safety. The New York State law will actually change very little for its students are willing to commit a felony by altering licenses, finding way around the state law would, in most cases, be less risky. Union's drinki11g policy is much. stricter tilan lhat of many other schools. Skidmore, for example, sponsors parties in which alcohol is served and a truck which serves beer frequently visits the campus. Hamilton and Dartmouth, on the other hand~ have keg parties in the dorms. The precautions that Union is taking abides by the law and places the liability upon the ·students as the New York State ALL LETlERSTO TIIE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMIITED'TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFRCEBY 4:00P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. law intended to. Unfortunately, the law did not take into consi4eration that there are few problems with alcohol at colleges. This new law hurts minors more than pro:tcc ts them, because it will not stop minors from drinking and because it makes it harder to obtain the alcohol minors will put themselves out even more. College students are mature en()ugh to make their own decisions and peer pressure is not an issue at this level. The committee that changed the New York State law concerning alcohol must not realize that in college situations drinking should not be cracked dow11 upon, going to fraternities is more of a social visit than a way in which to obtain alcohol. On campus drinking is much safer and unfortunately the makers of the law are hurting colleges because they are not taking into co11sideration that the students are safely drinking on their campus. By making a new law they are forcing colleges to change their present laws. It seems as if the makers are beyond understanding that they are not benefiting anyone. The harder it is for minors to drink the more problems Union will have off campus. Students will be going to area bars and then driving intoxicated, which only leads to unforseen problems. Sybil Zanger

CONCORDIENSIS, January 2~ 1 19§0 Page 13 LETTERS· Open and Closed i G.L .. B.A. Reserves Right to Put Up Fight! To the Editor: I write to take :issue with two aspects of tile letter last week from Marlc Haughton. Haughton wrote reacting to previous articles. letters and notices in Concerdi·e:nsis which dealt in o11e way or another with gays and lesbians at Union College. 1 ()bject ·both to Haughton's logical argument (such as it is), and even more, to his ·ad homimem attacks on individuals, . lnsofar as l' <:an detect a logic to What Haughton says. it is this: (I) Sexual activity should be private; (2) Therefore. gays and lesbians shQuld keep their sexual preferences to themselves. \I:f that ·means keepiiJg it in the closet, then .in the. .closet you go.\ . The logical fallacy should be obvious. Gays and lesbians who .';come ·out of the closet\ are not engaging in sexual activity. They are revealing a sexual p.refereoce-- or really, determining that they will no longer coneeal it. Our society increasingly recognizes that to force gays to conceal To the Editors: their sexual preference, from fear of job.;1oss or ostracism, is dehumanizing ;;md unjust. On behalf othe Gay. Lesbim My more urgent objection to · and Bisexual Alliance of Uni<n this letter stems from the way . . College, I would like to in which Haughton argues .. respond to Mr. Haughton's Rather than a.~cking ideas he ·. Article, \Entertained Alum.\ choses to attack the people It is quite clear that Mr. who are presenting the ideas-- Haughton learned nothi11g scattering names. ofindividuals during his four years hert at and organizations onto the • · Union. To debase a grot~p page, vaguely juxtaposed with simply because one feels that.i t complaints about Union's \loss should remain silent, especially of ttadition and pride.\ As an With a group such as tlle educator, I applaud vigorous G.L.B.A., is absurd and qllite attacks o~ ideas, but condemn ·. · · immature. attempts to ridicule those who Gays and Lesbians have engage in public debatge. ! every, right to have their voice the military, eq11al bousing, and are constantly being harassed for asking of our country nothing but the same equal rights and privileges that the heterosexual .pqpulation has had, for so long. May I remind Mr. Haughton, that if we were to keep ourselves \in the closet\ we ·certainly wot~ldn''t have ,progressed as mttch as we have today. Unfortu11ately, it is people like y().urself who attempt to keep us from advancing any further. Fortunately for tiS, and those individuals wh() s11pport our cause, we will achieve in gaining our rights, n.ot as gays cr lesbians, but .as individuals- as human beings. Then maybe there won't be a 11eed to be so public about it: did you ever think of that? One last word of advice, Mr. Haughton. If you're goir..; to be feeling sorry for anyone. don 1 t feel sorry for your college or its groups and/or organizations ... feel sorry for yourself. Evidently you have yet to learn to appreciate the hard work put in, and the dedication that these clubs have, for their college. We don't start clubs or continue them for our own good; there are there for the good of everyone. Sin.cerely, Edgar Letriz Co-Chairperson, Union G.L.B.A. Mr. Haughton, if the mer.e 1 in this country considering tfl!tt sight of a c.,ncordieus,is ! we m-e still being discriminated announcement of a meeting of . against in all levels of societr. the GLBA makes you feel this. We are denied federa.l uncomf(lrtable, I urge you to . ' employment, adniittance into seek counseling. In· this day ..._.:,......:__..,.:._ __________________________________ __ and.age.reelingstikethatneed S·ociety· · .. ·t· . 0 K. ee·.p H. • ·en·tage· Alive not be bottled up inside. (And t h a t' s an a d hominem argument. I apologize; I just couldn't keep To the Editor: that our club could sponsor. it inside any longer.) Nearly two years ago, a our unique heritage. With this important event approaching, the purpose of this group will be preserving a11d promoting all.ofUnion's heritage. This organization will be working closely with Alumni and the archives in promoting Union's heritage as well as becoming a member of preservation societies. Please join this organization if you have any kind of pride in the heritage of this college. This wilt be your opportunity to help in sharing with others the colorful history of Union which is as colorful as the building that symbolizes Union College-- The Non Memcrial. Sincerely, • student initiative on campns Bruce L. Reynolds . . was founded with the purpose of promoting the heritage O:f Associate Professor of Economics the Nott Memorial and striving to have the National Hist&nc . . Landmark restored. Now, with · the college moving toward~ restoration of the exterior ()f •• · the building, it seems appropriate for Restore the Nott Student Initiative .to 1 de·velop into a neYV · organization keeping tha. t energy alive. Also, as Uni'<ln College nears its bicentennial · , celebration, it is necessary to · · prepare ourselves in presenting This new orgaiJization is the Union College Heritage Society and it is being asked that aU interested students in becoming members of this group attend our formation meeting. This m=eeting will be held Monday night at 9 p.m. at College Center Room 409. At this meeting we will be discussing our c<>nstitution that we will be submitting to the Student Forum for official recognition, and we will be a discussing possible projects Elections for the new Editors-in-Chief C: on cordi en sis will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Sincerely, Keith 0. Bemis Restore The Nott of Deadline for Registration in Mrs. Marra's office is Fe b. 2 With Anyone and everyone is welcome and encouraged to participate in the elections. you can even do this: Macintosh\ computers have always been easy to use. But they've ne\'(!r been this easy to owq. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. New Open ..• Close OON 000 1hrough]anuary31, you can save hundreds of do!Jars on a variety of Af>ple\ Macintosh computers ana peripherals. So now there's no reason tO settle for at1 ordimny PC. With The Macintosh Sale, you can wind up with mud1 more of a computer. Without spending a lot more mbney. Print ..• Quit •• The Nlacintosh Sale. Now Uu-ough]anuary 31. Union College Bookstore College Center J ' r

CONCORDIENSIS, January 25, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS Open and Closed G.L.B.A. Reserves Right to Put Up Fight! To the Editor: I write to take issue with two aspects of the letter last week from Mark Haughton. Haughton wrote reacting to previous articles, letters and notices in C oncerdiensis which dealt in one way or another with gays and lesbians at Union College. I object both to Haughton's logical argument (such as it is), and even more, to his ad hominem attacks on individuals, Insofar as I can detect a logic to what Haughton says, it is this: {1) Sexual activity should be private; (2) Therefore, gays and lesbians should keep their sexual preferences to themselves. \If that means keeping it in the closet, then in the closet you go.\ The logical fallacy should be obvious. Gays and lesbians who \come out of the closet\ are not engaging in sexual activity. They are revealing a sexual preference-- or really, determining that they will no longer conceal it. Our society increasingly recognizes that to force gays to conceal To the Editors: their sexual preference, from fear of job-loss or ostracism, is dell uv:nanizing .and unjust. On behalf othe Gay, Lesbian My more urgent objection to and Bisexual Alliance of Union this letter stems from the way College, I would like to in which Haughton argues. · respond to Mr. Haughton's Rather than atu\cking ideas he Article, \Entertained Alum.\ ch()ses to attack the people It is quite clear that Mr. wlto are presenting the ideas-- Haughton learned nothing scattering names of individuals during his four years here at and organizations onto the · Union. To debase a group page, vaguely juxtaposed with simply because one feels that it complaints about Union's \loss should remain silent, especiaHy of tradition and pride.\ As an with a group such as the ed11cator, I applaud vigorous G.L.B.A., is absurd and quite attacks on ideas, but condemn . immature. attempts to ridicule those who Gays and Lesbians have engage in public debatge. every right to have their voice Mr. Haughton, if the mere . , in thll; country considering that sig·ht of a Concordiensi_s . ·we are still being discriminated announcement of a meeting of against in all levels of society. the GLBA makes you feel this We are denied federal uncomfortable, I urge you to ·employment, admittance into the military, equal housing, and are constantly being harassed for asking of 011r country nothing but the same equal rights and privi:!eges that the lleterosexual population has had f€1r so long. May I remind Mr. Haughton, that if we were to keep ourselves \in the closet\ we certainly wouldn't have progressed as much as we have today. Unfortu11ately, it is people like yourself who attempt to keep us from advancing any further. F01tunately for liS, and those individuals who support our cause, we will achieve in gaining our rights, net as gays or lesbians, but as individuals- as human beings. Then maybe there won't be a need to be so public about it: did you ever think of that? One last word of advice, Mr. Haughton. If you're goir..,: to be feeling sorry for anyone. don't feel sorry for your college or its groups and/or organizations ... fee'! sorry for yourself. Evidently you have yet to learn to appreciate the hard work put in, and the dedication that these cll!lbs have, for their college. We don't start clubs or continue them for our own good; there are there for the good of everyone. Sincerely, Edgar Letriz Co-Chairperson, Union G.L.B.A. seek counseling. In this day ---------------------------------- and age, feelings like that need not be bottled up inside. (And that's an ad h o mine m argument. I apologize; I just couldn't keep it inside any longer.) Sincerely, Bruce L. Reynolds Associate Professor of Economics With Society to Keep Heritage Alive To the Editor: Nearly two years ago, a student initiative on campus was founded with the purpose of promoting the heritage of the Nott Memorial and striving to have the Nationa'l Historic Landmark restored. Now, with the college moving towards restoration of the exterior of the building, it seems appropriate for Restore the Nott Student Initiative to develop into a new organization keeping that energy alive. Also, as Union College nears its bicentennial celebration, it is necessary to prepare ourselves in presenting our unique heritage. With this important event approaching, the purpose of this group will be preserving and promoting all (){Union's heritage. This new organization is the Union College Heritage Society and it is being asked that all interested students in becoming members of this group attend our formation meeting. This meeting will be held Monday night at 9 p.m. at College Center Room 409. At this meeting we will be discussing our C()nstitution that we will be submitting to the Stuclent Forum for official recognition, and we will be a discussing poss iblc projects Elections for the new that our club could sponsor. This organization will be working closely with Alumni and the archives in promoting Union's heritage as well as becoming a member of preservation societies. Please join this organization if you have any kind of pride in the heritage of this college. This will be your opportunity to help in sharing with others the colorful history of Union which is as colorful as the building that symholizcs Union College-- The Notr Memorial. Sincerely, Keith 0. Bemis Restore The Nott Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Deadline for Registration in Mrs. Marra's office is Feb. 2 Anyone and everyone is welcotnc and encouraged to participate in the elections. Y 0 ~~~~9E~~qtrl!Qt~: been tllis easy to own. Presenting The Macintosh Sale. New Open ... Close Through january 31, you can save hundreds of dollars on a variety of Apple• Macintosh computers and peripherals. So now there's no reason to settle for an ordinary PC. With The Madnto~h Sale, you can wind up with much more of a computer. 'Vtthout spending a lot more money. Quit •• The Macintosh Sale. Now tl1roughja.nuary 31. Union College Dookslorc CoUege Center

Page 14 ,CONCORDIENSIS, ltmuary 25, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY The Question of Animal Experimentation By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Oblecting to Dissection - N.J. Carlson gave electric shocks to 16 dogs. and. found that hi$ \high shock group\ acquired ar:axiety faster. ( 1960) - K.R. Henry of Wiscensin University placed 571 mice in a large chr()matography jar and sounded a 5-inch electric bell generating 102 decibels of noise for '90 seconds. Records were made cf the incidence of wild runni11g, toxic,cl(Jnic, and lethal seizures. 181 of the mice died. (1969') - On July 1, 1946 the world's fourth at()mic bomb was dropped on a target of 7 5 ships containing 4,500 experimental animals. - A pathologist in Glasgow infected :kittens with lung worm. E:xJlerimental forms of treatment killed the majority of animals, and death was preceded by excessive salivalioll, impairment of locomoti'm and vtswn, muscular twitching, panting, respitory distress and convulsioas. (1968) The det.ate over animal experimeiLtation and dissection is an old one. Animals have been used in research for over 150 year:S. Animal rights's activists bave long cried out for an end to the use of animals in science. Often citing cases like those above, they center their debate on the justifiability of inflicting any suffering, or loss of life, on any animal,. for any reason at all There is insufficient difference between 'man and other species to·justifydifferent treatment. Possible Cal for Papers. for THE UNION COLLEGE UNDERGRADUATE REVIEW OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES --All Humanity and Social Science Topics Considered --Foreign; Language Papers Encouraged --Distributed at Seven Northeast Colleges SO WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO LOSE? SUBMIT THAT 'A' PAPER! Looks great on your Resume, and it would make your parents proud! All submissions must be original unpublished. work of the author accompani!Cd by full referell<:es. The Editor's decision is final. Deadliae: Exteocled to Friday, April 6, 1990 Submit to: :Bo:x 260 Umion College distinguishing characteristics such as sentiency, purposiveness, and capacity for self-enrichment are inadequate. Men should be concerned with .life and feel responsible for animals. Animal dissection is big business. Over S. 7 million animals a year are killed to be dissected for educational purposes. Many of these animals such. as chipmunks, frogs. sparrows, and. snakes are collected from their natural environments; in the process. their habitats are decimated and entire ecologies are threatened. Other animals, including mice, rabbits and pigs, are bred in cramped \factories\ solely for the purpose of being later killed for dissection experiments. Even more harmful is the desensitizing effect of mutilating and dismembering animals in the name of science and in the cause of education. How is it that the study of a \life-science\ - meant to instill wonderment and respect for life - has become the science of painful experimentation and death? Dissection teaches students that the lives of animals are expendable and unimportant. As a result, some of the best potential scientists, who have a deep respect for animal life, may end up dropping. out of a field they love because they refuse to take part in senseless killing and research. Despite the availability of numerous educational alternatives, animal dissection remains common in m()st college biology, physiology Continued on page 15 T:he :1 mportan.ce of Experimentation Scientists and researchers · · who perform experiments on animals are not \the enemy.\ The benefit from knowledge is assessed by imagining that no animal experiment had been done for 2,000 years, so that we lacked all knowledge so gaine<l. The resulting ignorance both about our own bodies and those of animals would profoundly affect our outlook, to each other as well as to animals. Deliberate failure to win new knowledge is the same as deliberate per:petuatin of ignorance. Science professors here at Union tend to agree. Professor Peter Tobiessen, chairmall of biology, find$ animal experimentation to sometimes be \regrettable.\ However, he believes it is important to the field, especially in the area of medical research, where it is imperative that all procedures first be tried on animal subjects. Tobiessen also noted that it is impossible to accuratley replicate dissection on computers or with alternative methods. Leslie Hull, professor of chemistry, agrees that research cannot be simulated on computers until the experiments are first done on animals. He supports animal ex.perLmentation with a well- trained laboratory staff and. does not see h·<>W animal experimentation can be avoided in the serious study of scienee. Assistant professor of bio1ogy, S tepften LaBonne says lhat animal research is necessary in the competent study. of biology. He points out t~at dissectio.n is often done on live animals under anesthesia and t.lJat the animal undergoes no. rnore .suffering than a human being operated upoo. LaBonne says that tbe \torture conditi<>ns\ portrayed · by animal rights activists are not accurate and that animal experimentation is subject to e:xtensive reviews and is only done by knowledgeable researchers. Enormous benefits have been gained not only for human beings but als() for animals through the knowledge gained both · in medicine and in veterinary science. Animal dissection and experimentation is necessary in the study of anatomy, in the testing of vaccines and.otller drugs, and in gaining general medical knowledge. Much is made of the pain inflicted on amimals in tbe name of medlc~ science. But life is also cruel to human beings as welL Children get thrown from the back of pick- up trucks and suffer severe brain and spine injuries. Toddlers drown while their parents are busy. Sixty•seven million Americans have one or more {orms of heart and blood vessel disease. Researchers hoping to eliminte pain and suffering have but three choices: create an animal model of ·the injqry or disease and use that to understand the process and test new therapies; experiment on human beings-- some experiments will succeed, most will fail-- or finally, do nothing, hoping Umt accidental brealcthroughs. will lead us to cures. Obviously, there are few alternatives when testing involves the unknown. Animal research is stringently controlled and regulated. Union's Animal Care and Use Committee controls . all animal work done on campus. Before.anirnal research can begin, long Jlroposals indicating the nat111e of the research must be submitted for review. ·A veterinarian from Albany Medical School. is sent to inspect the college's animal keeping faciHties once a month. Federal regulations for adequate animal care must be followed. A state veterinarian also makes unscheduled inspection visits, George Butterstein. Associate Dean of Faculty and professor of biology, is the Continued on page 15 The Socialized Medicine Summer Term Abroad (to England, Holland and H.ungary) ,will have an Informational' Meeting on Thursday, Feb. 1.st, HY.11WHAS QU!~rv/J.ILO ... tcr'5HAVc A lOOf(. V!J .... Of CO/liJt Mf5$ I lilliJiWAKrtK. / at 4:30P.M; in HU 114 .. IS HAVI~ f() 5P/.IT111/J /.rffL~ 6UYts !ifA,41.s. <::::::::> •

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, January 25, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY The Question of Animal Experimentation By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Objecting to Dissection - N.J. Carlson gave electric shocks to 16 dogs and found that his \high sh()ck g.ro11p\ acquired anxiety faster. C 15l60) - K.R. Henry of Wisconsin University placed 571 mice in a large chromatography- j2r and sounded a 5-inch electric bell generating 102 decibels of noise for 90 seconds. Records were made cf the incid1c11ce of wild running, toxic, clo11i c. and lethal seizures. 181 ()ftiJe mice died. (1969) -On July 1, 1946 th.e world's fourth atomic bomb was dropped on a target of 7'5 ships containing 4,500 el'.periiTflental animals. - A pathologist i.n Glasgow infected kittens Vlitll lung wonn. Experimental fonns of treatment killed the Imaj<>ri ty of animals, and deallll wa·s preceded by ex.c e ssi ve salivation, impairment of locomotion and v1 s1on, muscular twitching, pa11ting, respitory distress and convulsions. ( 1968) The debate over animal experimentation and diss.ection is an old one. An1mals; have been used in research fM <Jver 150 years. Animal ri.gl!ts's activists have long cried aut for an end to the use of an'inrrals in science. Often citing cmses like those above, they cente.if their debate on the justifiability of inflicting any suffering, 11lr loss of life, on any animal, for any reason at al!. There is insufficient difference bet ween ma.Jn and other species to justify different treatment. Possible Call for Papers: for THE UNION COLLEGE. UNDERGRADUATE REVIEW OF HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES --All Humanity and Social Science Topics Co11sidered --Foreign Language Pa~rs Encouraged --Distributed at Seven Northeast Colleges SO WHAT DO ¥0U HAVE TO LOS.E? SUBMIT THA1' 'A' PAPER! Looks great on )'OlLr Resume, and it would make yamr parents proud! All submissions must be original unpublished work of the :author accompanied by full re fercnces. The Ediwr's decision is fma:l. Deadline: Extoencle<d to Friday, April fi, 199() Submit to: Box 2~() Union C()JI<ege distinguishing charac~eristics such as sentiency, pU!j!J(>siveness, and capacity for self-enrichment are inadequate. Men should be concerned with life and feel responsible for animals. Animal dissection is big business. Over 5. 7 million animals a year are killed to be dissected for educational purposes. Many of these animals such as chipmunks, frogs, sparrows, and snakes are collected from their natural environments; in the process, their habitats are decimated and entire ecologies are threatened. Oth~r animals, including mice, rabbits and pigs, are bred in cramped \factories\ solely for the purpose of being later kil!:ed for dissection experiments. Even more harmful is the desensitizing effect of mutilating and dismembering animals in the name of science and in the cause of education. How is it that the study of a \life-science\ - meant to instill wonderment and respect for life · ha:s become the science of painful experimentation and death? Dissection teaches students that the lives of animals are expendable and unimportant. As a result, some of the best potential scientists, who have a deep respect for animal life, may end up dropping out of a field they love because they refuse to take part in senseless killing and research. Despite the availability of numerous educational alternatives, animal dissection remains common in most coEicge biology, physiology Continued on page 15 The Importance of Experimentation Scientists and researchers who perform experiments on animals are not \the enemy.\ The benefit from knowledge is assessed by imagining that no animal experiment had been done for 2,000 years, so that we lacked all knowledge so gained. The resulting ignorance both abo11t our own bodies and those of animals would profoundly affect our outlook, to each other as well as to animals. Deliberate failure to win new knowledge is the same as deliberate perpetuatin of ignorance. Science professors here at Union tend to agree. Professor Peter Tobiessen, chairman of biology, finds animal experimentation to sometimes be \regrettable.\ However, he believes it is important to the field, especially in the area of medical research, where it is imperative that all procedures first be tried on animal subjects. Tobiessen also noted that it is irn possible to accuratley replicate dissection on computers or with alternative methods. Leslie Hull, professor of chemistry, agrees that research cannot be simulated on computers until the experiments are first done on animals. He supports animal experimentation with a well- trained laboratory staff and does not see how animal experimentation can be avoided in the serious study of science. Assistant professor of biology, Stephen LaBonne says that animal research is necessary in. the competent study of biology. He points out that dissection is often done on live animals under anesthesia and that the animal undergoes no more suffering than a human being operated upon. LaBonne says that the \torture conditions\ portrayed by animal rights activists are not accurate and that animal experimentation is subject to extensive reviews and is only done by knowledgeable researchers. Enormous benefits have been gained not only for human beings but also for animals through the knowledge gained both in medicine and in veterinary science. Animal dissection and experimentation is necessary in the study of anatomy, in the testing of vaccines and other drugs, and in gaining general medical knowledge. Much is made of the pain inflicted on animals in the name of medical science. But life is also cruel to human beings as well. Children get thrown from the back of pick- up trucks and suffer severe brain and spine injuries. Toddlers drown while their parents are busy. Sixty-seven million Americans have one or more forms of heart and blood vessel disease. Researchers hoping to eHminte pain and suffering have but three choices: create an animal model .of the injury or disease and use that to understand the process and test new therapies; experiment on human beings-- some experiments will succeed, most will fail-- or finally, do nothing, hoping that accidental breakthroughs will lead us to cures. Obviously, there are few alternatives when testing involves the unknown. Animal research is stringently controlled and regulated. Union's Animal Care and Use Committee controls all animal work done on campus. Before animal research can begin, long proposals indicating the nature of the research must be submitted for review. A veterinarian from Albany Medical School is sent to inspect the college's animal keeping facilities once a month. Federal regulations for adequate animal care must be followed. A state veterinarian also makes unscheduled inspection visits. George Butterstein, Associate Dean of Faculty and professor of biology, is the Continued en page 15 The Socialized Medicine Summer Term Abroad (to England, Holland and Hungary) will have an Informational Meeting on Thursday, Feb. 1st, 11Yn/ATHA'l QU/~K/4/LO ... I.CT'5 llfN[ A lOOf(. Yt.J ... Of etJI&\ J.-1/55 \ BJJJzWAKf£1.. / at 4:30P.M. in HU 114. IS HAVING TO SPlJT1HIS tiT'!Zt GUY's S!AM5. c:::::::> = W8.l JJo~ MILO ... -ni/:5/S 11h IJ/ltPE5Tf}JG CXA.'iftl a- A flAM5UfJ.. KI!J/J!Y. .. J./fiY, rr AlMosT Rc:SCJ1BI.E5 A ... A ••. WELL/FOR fJN! Rtfl/5£ 10 AIJI) 11J MAN'J INHVNN/TY. I ./ 1/IEN ...!'!Etc $11£ 7lf/NK ~~ ~~ 0/{)N'T tXJM!JH/im ,A-t eYe!< 8111 tr. El5£ FOR UIENCR. I PETE~ Wl. I

SCIENCE & TECHNOLO~GY Reflections The humanity which would prevent human suffering is a deeper and truer humanity than the humanity which would save pain or death in the animal. -Charles W. Eliot The earth belongs to the living, not the dead. --Jefferson Every science has been an outcast. --Ingersoll Physiological experiment on animals is justifiable for real investigation, but not for more damnable and detestable curiosity. -·Darwin No floc~s. that range the valley Jree, To slaugher I ·condemn: Taught by that Power that pities me. I learn to pity them. --Gold$mith -Like brute beasts that haye no understanding. · --Book bjCom:mon Prayer Hurt not animals. --Plutarch A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast. · --Old Testament Those who are concerned with protecting the freedom of science must demonstrate leadership and take prompt acti<;m in regard to research animals, or else absolutists will. --Theodore Meth Human life is more important to the culture than animal life is.... -- Mar<:USe & Pear Although human beings eat (>ther animals, experiment upon them. and destroy their .habitats,. we rarely pause to consider whether our practices toward them are ethically defensible. .--Tom Regan Our duties toward animals ... are indirect dl:lttes towards mankind. --Kant ... other animals than man have the power of locomotion, but in none but him is there intellect. --At.istotle It .is sometimes held by some people that ethical decisions are easy to make. that they come down almost as telegrams from heaven. I am not one ofthose people myself. If I do receive that kind of telegram, I am always suspicious about where it comes from and sometimes I fear· I may have· unwittingly sent it t()_ myself. No., in complex issues ·there is rto substitute for discipline of the facts, underst<mdm.g what is at issue. --Hugh Montefrore The anim.al experimentation articles have been compiled. from: a-PublicHealthService Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Amimals --Newsweek --Animal Rights and Human Obligations·. --Objecting to Dissection: A college Student's Handbook --Man and Mous.e: Animals in Medical Research Experimentation Continued from pa.ge 14 and the minimum number and care of an animals used for biomedical purposes must be directed by a veterinarian or other scientist trained and experienced in the proper care, handling, and use ofthe sper ies being maintained or studied. In any case, veterinary care shall be provided as indicated. . chairman of the cotlege's Aniina'l Care and Use Committee. According to him, although there has been a general trend to reduce the number of animal experiments, animal research is still very important. He stresses the importance of doing as .many .in vitro el).periments as possible and also hav·ing sevQral students share one ~pecimen . in the classroom ratherthaneach studenthaving his own. Regulati()n is controlled by · the government through the Department .of Health and Human Services and the National Institutes .of Health. The following are the basic governmental guidelines for testing, research, and training - requiring animals. I. 'Jhe transportation, care, and use of animals should be in accordance with the Animal Welfate · Act and other applicable Federal laws, guidelines, and policies. IL Procedures involving · anif!!~S should be designed and performed with due consideration of their relevance to human or animal health, the advancement of knowledge, or the good of society. ll[ The animals selected for a procedure should be of an appropriate species and quality Dissection Continued. from page 14 and zoology courses. Alternatives such as video tapes and slides covering anatomy, anatomical models, charts, computer programs and other learning tools are largely ignored. Year after year, millions of animals are used in research at U.S. colleges to demonstrate anatomy. Many are killed for dissection purposes. Is this really necessary? Many students who refuse to dissect encounter resistance and hostility from professors. It is important to be prepared when your ethical beliefs are challerrge<L What follows are some arguments that you might come up against if you object to taking parL in dissection, along with possible . responses. 1, Hands on experience is required to obtain valid results. Methods such as mathematical models, compu~er simulaton. and in vitrQ biological systems should be considered. IV. Proper use of animals, including the avoidance or minimizatie:m of discomfort~ distress, and pain when consistent with sound scientific practices, is imperative. Unless the contrary is established, investigators .should consider tht procedures tllat cause pain or distress in human beings may cause pain or distress in other animals. V. Procedures with animals that may cause more than momentary or slight pain or distress should be performed with appropriate sed~;ttion~ analgesia, or anethesia. Surgical or other painful procedures sbou.ld not be performed on unanesth.etized animals paralyzed by chemical agents. • VI. Animals that would otherwise suffer severe or chronic pain or distress that cannot be relieved should be painlessly killed at the end of the procedure or, if appropriate, during the procedure.· VII. The living conditions ·Of animals should be appropriate for their species and contribute to their health and· comfort. Normally the housing, feeding • • essential to llnderstanding biology. Response - There are many practical alternatives to dissection. I can get experience from using detailed models of animal anatomy, observing live animals, or disecting plants. Also. some people learn better ftom clear, detailed diagrams or computer simulations than from animal specimens. 2. Dissection is a course requirement, and you have to do what is required to pass the course. Response - I'm wiling to be tested on my knowledge by means other !.han dissection. I'm willing to do as much .work as anyone else, by studying books, photos, videos, and models, to meet the standards of the course. 3. You arc just being squeamish. You should face VIII. investigators and other personnel shaH be appropriately qualified and experienced for conducting procedures on living animals. Adequate arrangements shall be made for their in-service training induding the proper and humane care and use of laboratory animals. IX. Where exceptions are required in relation to the provisions of these Principles, the decisions should not rest with the investigators directly concerned but should be made, with due regatd to Principle II, by an appropriate review group such as an institutional animal care and use committee. Such exceptions should not be made solely for the purposes of teaching or demonstration. The question of animal experiment depends in the end on the view man takes of himself and of the animal and inanimate world around him. It centers on his choice between the avoidance of suffering now and the avoidance of suffering remediable ignorance in the future. your fears and make yourself do the dis sec Lion anyway. Response - Reusing to dissect has nolhing to do with being afraid. Being sickened by dissection is not a sign of emotional immaturity, but of compassion for animals. 4. Dissection teaches us to understand life. Response - Biology is supposed to teach respect for life; but dissection teaches us that animal life is cheap and expendable. Students around the country have begun to voice their refusals over unethical animal experimentation. As student objections become more vocal and visible, the movement towards non-animal alternatives grows. By exercising your right as a student, you can help create an environment where respect for animals is considered the norm. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present DR. DAVID R. MANN Dept. of Physiology · Morehouse School of Medicine Atlanta_ GA \BONE LOSS RESULTING FROM OVARIAN FAILURE\ Thursday, Feb. 1,1990 . 4:40P.M. SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30

CONCORVJBNSlS, January 25, 1990 Page 15 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Reflections The humanity which would prevent human suffering is a deeper and truer humanity than the hurnantty which vvould save pain. or death in the animal. -Charles W. Eliot 'The earth belongs to the living. not the dead. --Jefferson Every science has been an outcast. --Ingersoll Physiological experiment on animals is justifiable for real investigation, but not for more damnable and detestable curiosity. --Darwin No flocks, that range the valley free, To slaugher I condemn; Taught by that Power that pities me, I learn to -pity them. -·Go[dsmith -Like brute beasts that have no understanding. ··Book of Common Prayer Hurt not animals. --Plutarch A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast. -·Old Testament Those who are concerned with protecting the freedom of science must demonstrate leadership and take prompt action in regard to research animals, or else absolutists will. --Theodore Meth Human life is more important to the culture than animal life is.... -·-Marcuse & Pear Although human beings eat other animals, experiment upon them, and destroy their habitats, we rarely pause to consider whether our practices toward them are ethically defensible. --Tom Regan Our duties toward animals ... are indirect duties towards mankind. --Kant ... other animals than man have the power of locomotion. but in none but him is there intellect. --Aristotle It is sometimes held by some people that ethical decisions are easy to make, that they come down almost as telegrams from heaven. I am not one of those people myself. If I do receive that kind of telegram, I am always suspicious about where It comes from and sometimes I fear· I may have unwittingly sent it to myself. No, in complex issues there is no substitute for discipline of the facts, understanding what is at issue. --Hugh Monteftore The animal experimentation articles have been compiled from: --Public Health Service Policy on Humane Care and Use of Laboratory Amimals --Newsweek --Animal Rights and Human Obligations. --Objecting to Dissection: A college Student's Handbook --Man and Mouse: Animals in Medical Research Ex'p:e:rimentation • • Contimaed fr<om page 14 chairman of the college's Animal Care and Use Committee. According to him, altheugh .vbere has been a general trend to reduce the number or animal experiments, animal i'e:sea..rch is stiH very important. He stresses the importance &f doing as many in vitr& ,experiments as possible and also having several 1> tuclents share one specimen ill the classroom rather tha11 each student having his own. Regulati(:)n is controlled by the government through the Department of Health and Human ~ervices and the National J.11stitutes of Health. The foll(:)wing are the basic governmen t:d guidelines for testing, resea.rch, and training requiring a!limals. I. The tr<Jnsportation, care, and use<Jfa.nimals should be in accordance- with the Animal Welfare A.ct and other applicable- Federal laws, guidelines, 81ld policies. II. PrC>cedures involving anif!!alS sh0uld be designed and performed with due considerati~n of their relevance to hum~n or animal health, the advance-ment of knowledge, or the go(:)(! of society. III. Th~ animals selected for a procedure should be of an appropriate S]Jecies and quality Dissection Continuec:l from page 14 and zo()Jogy courses. Alternatives such as video tapes and slides covering anatomy, anatomical models, charts, COillJluter programs and other le8111ing tools are largely ignored. 'Year after year, millions ()( animals are used in research at U.S. co lieges to demonstr.atc anatomy. Many are killed for dissection purpose!;. Is this really necessary?' Many students who refuse to dissect enc()unter resistance and hostility from professors. It is important to be prepared when your etllical beliefs are challerrge<L What follows arc some arEuments that you might C<Jnle up against if you object l<l taking part in dissectioll, along with possible responses. l. Hands on experience is • and the minimum number required to obtain valid rcsl!llts. Methods st~ch as mathematical models, comptHer simulaton, and in vitro biological systems should be considered. IV. Proper use of animals, including the avoidance or minimization of discomfort , distress, and pain when consistent wi~b. sound scientific practicrs, is imperative. Unless the contrary is established, investigators should consider tht procel!l ures that cause pain or d,istress in human beings may cause pain or distress in other animals. V. Procedures with animals that may cause more than momentary or slight pain or distress should be performed with appropriate sedation, analgesia, or anethesia. Surgical or other painful procedures should not be performed on unanesthetized animals paralyzed by chemical agents. VI. Animals that would otherwise suffer severe or chrenic pain or distress that cannot be relieved should be painlessly killed at the end of the procedure or, if appropriate, during the procedure. VII. The living conditions of animals should be appropriate for their species and conttibute to their b.ealt.b and comfort. Normally the housing, feeding • • essential to understanding biology. Response - There arc many practical alternatives to dissection. I can get experience from using detailed models of animal anatomy, observing live animals, or disecting plants. Also, some people learn better from clear, detailed diagrams or computer simulations than from animal specimens. 2. Dissection is a course requirement, and you have to do what is required to pass the course. Response - I'm wiling to be tested on my knowledge by means other than dissection. I'm willing to do as much work as anyone else, by studying books, photos, videos, and models, to meet the standards of the course. 3. You are just being squeamish. You should face and care of all animals used for biomedical purposes must blc directed by a veterinarian or other scientist trained and experienced in tlle proper care, handling, and use of Lhe spcr :cs being maintained or studied. In any case, veterinary care shall be provided as indicated. VIII. Investigators and other pers o nne 1 shall be appropriately qualified and experienced for conduct,i ng procedures on living animals. Adequate arrangements shall he made fer their in-service training including the prope-r and huma11e care and use of laboratory animals. IX. Where exceptions arc required in relation to the provisions of these Principles. the decisions should not rest with tile investigators directly concerned bllt should be made, with due regard to Principle II, by an appropriate review gmup such as an i11stitutional animal care and use committee. S!lch exceptions sh.ould not be made solely for tlle purposes of teaching or demonstration. The question of animal experiment depends in the end on the view man takes of himself and of the animal and inanimate world around hirn. It centers on his choice between the avoidance of suffering now and the avoidance of suffcri ng remediable ignorance in the future. your fears and make yourself do the dissection anyway. Response - Reusing to dissect has nothing to do with bci11g afraid. .Being sickened by dissection is not a sign of emotional i1nrnaturity, but of compassion f<lr animals. 4. Dissection teaches us to understand life. Response - Biology is supposed to tmrh respect for life, but dissection teaches us tllat animal life is cheap and cJ<pcndablc. Students around the country have begun to voice their refusals over unethical animal experimentation. As studi:.'n t objections hccome more V<lcal and visible, the movement towards non -animal altemativco; grows. By exercising yt>tJr right as a student, you can hclp create an c nvironmcnt where respect for animals 1s considered tllc norm. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present DR DAVID R. MANN Dept. of Physiology Morehouse School of Medicine Atlanta, GA 9 'BONE LOSS RESULTING FROM OVARIAN FAILURE\ Thursday, Feb. l, 1990 4:40P.M. SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 ''·

J . • . .. , .. • • ii Pagoe 16 i'><;l'i.~i <~ ''\'·t.·i~~·)\ .1:'11?\:-~':.'f.hHii.f!.')V.~Y-~ CONCORDIENSJS, January 25, 1990 'ART·s & ENTERTAINMENT COMING FEBRUARY 3rd. at Memorial ·Chapel . ' GILBERT GOTTFRIED at 8:0,0 PM IT'S FREE Have a La·ugh! Poetry Contest Poetry prizes worth $44,000 will be awarded to 608 poets by the American Poetry Association in 1990. The association will sponsor · four separate contests this year, doubling· its efforts to discover new talent. · \Students win many of our prizes. They are in a creative time of life, and we look forward to reading their work,\ said Robert Nelson, publisher for the association . . Each contest awards a S 1,000 grand prize, a $500 first prize, and a total of Sll,OOO in prizes to 152 'winners. All adults who write poetry are welcome to enter. For the current contest, poets may send up to 6 poems, each no more than 20 lines, name and address on each page, to American Poetry Association, De:pt. Co-30, 250-A Potrero St., PO. 0. Box 1803, Santa Cruz, CA 95061 . Poems must be postmarked by March 31 to meet the deadline. A new contest starts April 1 . Each poem will also be considered for publication in the American Poetry Anthology, a hardcover collection of contemporary verse. Since 1981 the association has awarded over $165,000 in contest prizes to 3, 1 00 poets. SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES FlljM Schenectady Proctor's Theatre, Saturday, February 3th G:e1 a head start on St. Patrick's Day by seeing Jury's Irish Cabaret. The Cabaret features singers, dancers, and storytellers that display traditional Irish values and culture in song, dance and·comedy. The performance begins at 8 p.m. Call 346-62()4 for tickets. Pr()ctor's Theatre, Sunday, February 4th Pfilil Ford and Mimi Hines star in the updated clasic \No No Nanette.\ The performance is at 7 p.m. can 3.46-6204 for tickets. U11.ion College, Friday, January 26th A poetry reading by Ernst Schonwiese, an Austrian writer and literary critic, will take place at 2:30p.m. in Humanities 1 j 0. His work focuses and reflects on the human tradition and daiEy experiences of life and love. Saratoga Cafe Lena, Friday, February 2 A gathering of New York State's most important fidd'lers will take place when Vic Kibler, \Daddy Dick\ Richards, Freeman Corey Jr., and George Wilson take the stage at the coJfeehouse. The show begins at 8:30p.m. . CO• E MEMBERS MANDATORY MEETING Friday at 4 p.m. CC Mobil Lounge (Posters will be distributed)~

Page 16 CONCORDJENSIS, January 25, 199() ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ........... ··.·· _;.•.······ . HOROSCOPES BY ''A\ . AQUARIUS: Consumption of alcohol will prove d'¢trimental to your social life this we~.k f()'f it may ca\!Se you to do something that you wHl later regret. Concentrate on your academic:s •• it will pay off! . PISCES: Are you findYtg your hormones interferrri11g with other areas of your life? Just can't seem tQ coacentrate It is time you stop complaining and do something, Yet. do oot oompromise your morals or hurt anyone in the pfDcess or else in th;e end you will lose. · ARIES: As difficult as it may seem to motivate a:nd'<i(l your work for school, it is getting; Lo a point wherr:e you better get your act together. This coming weekend you wili meet a member of the opposite sex with whom a relationship r:nay eye:nrua1!.}' ¢volve. TAURUS: I know it i:swinter term !Uld it may s.'l!etn as though . there is not much to d:o wim y{)ur spare tim~ but drink.~md hang·¢ut. _Now it is time that you grow up! Your ;present habits V;;ill eventually cat<:h up with you and your health will bl:l shot. T:cy :reading a good book and actually hanging out with peopte -· sober. · GEMINI: Sad to say, this term is beginning on a t'ather turbulent note. Y f:?U may find yotJrse:lf craving emotit>nal S¢Cttcity, however. • now 1s the time to learn you can make it on yi:'lut ow~. · CANCER: Yes this t~:nn has had a sJ\w start. bo ·v¢r. expect a radical change in luck beginning around the 27th. h your life fall baek into place, bo1ili academically lind troclally. Jli~;Jl make sure · to remain self~oonfident ~e meantime .. LEO: For Leos this time >O:f year mruks your sextlilll'¢ak. Don't waste it because the res~t of t:he year will only· go doWllhill &om her:et Be open minded to mee'ting, new pe<>ple illi new pl{lees. . 1 VIRGO: This would boe a ,good week to spe.nd the cve:n1ngs at home with a loved one sha:rimg, a rmnantic e\\el'lin$. or wit!} a frl.en<l you ,,, may have not spent-time with in awhile. The party s~;~n.e will prove · unsatisfying. LIBRA: Tllis may be the critical pomt in a relationship you are involved in, so do noll screw up! If 1lllinvolved at this time tty meeting people outside of tlte party s~>ene:. lt wUl prtlYe: worth your while. SCORPIO: It is time to begin worklnt to 'your :p()tential. If the , stress becomes too grea.t, find someone with whom )'(llil could :r¢le~e . · that pent up energy. SAG ITT ARlUS! Although no one can deny that yoJI are having a , difficult Lime at Uni011 since you have !~?>turned from v~cation. it also · has to be pointed out tltat you tend to ov.er think pr()b]ems. Onc:;e. you . stop searching for romanc<~. it will most <~~finitely find· yoll! CAPRICORN: The .future holds ex.citement for <::apricoms. but' unfortunately no romMce. This is not tile time for yoa to search for conunitment, rather it is a time for explw-ation. COMING FEBRUARY 3rd at Memorial Chapel GILBERT GOTTFRIED at 8:00 P·M IT'S FREE Have a Laugh! Poetry Contest Poetry prizes worth $44,000 will be awarded to 608 poets by the American Poetry Associa-tion in 1990. The association will sponsor four separate contests this year, doubling its efforts to discover new talent. \Students win many of our prizes. They are in a creative time of life, and we look forward to reading their work,\ said Robert Nelson, publisher for the association. Each contest awards a $11000 grand prize, a $500 first prize, and a total of 811,000 in prizes to 152 winners. All adults who write poetry are welcome to enter. For the current contest. poets may send up to 6 poems, each no more than 20 lines, name and address on each page, to American Poetry Association, Dept. Co-30, 250-A Potrero St., PO. 0. Box 1803, Santa Cruz, CA 95061. Po.ems must be postmarked by March 31 to meet the deadline. A new contest starts April l. Each poem will also be considered for publication in the American Poetry Anthology, a hardcover collection of contemporary verse. Since 1981 the association has awarded over $165,000 in contest prizes to 3,100 poets. SOCIAL ALTERNATIVES FILM Schenectady Proctor's Theatre, Saturday, February 3th Get a head start on St. Patrick's Day by seei11g Jury's Irish Cabaret. The Cabaret features singers, dancers, and storytellers that display traditional Irish values and culture in song, dance and comedy. The performance begins at 8 p.m. Call346-6204 for tickets. Proctor's Theatre, Sunday, February 4th Phil Ford and Mimi 1-lines star in tne updated clasic \No No Nanette.\ The performance is at 7 p.m. Call 346-6204 tor tickets_ Union College, Friday, January 26th A poetry reading by Ernst Schonwiese, an Austrian writer and literary critic, will take place at 2:30 p.m. in Humanities 110. His work focLJses and reflects on the human tradition and daily experiences of life and love. Saratoga Cafe Lena, Friday, February 2 A gathering of New York State's most imp()rtant fiddlers will take place when Vic Kibler, \Daddy Dick\ Richards, Freeman Corey Jr., and George Wilson take the stage at t11e coffeehouse. The show begins at 8:30p.m. USE YOUI TAliiiT 1(1 ·C .. ·a· ;.~.:,, ... , ;, l~;~~·~·r- :· ·y····> ••••• , ... , . . - .... --~ ... · - - . Perfo.rm: for th,e PANHELJ.,:ENlC CA·;· ··:::: ET. to benefit the SchenectllldJI RftJ;It~~~l\lltl- CI(;Jifl,f Lesli$ Aoss ~~.m:· 1.1~-- CO E MEMBERS MANDATORY MEETING Friday at 4 p.m. CC Mobil Lounge (Posters will be distributed)

CONCOB.DIENSIS, Janrtary 25, 1990 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Mur-Mur Doesn't Mumble Texas Chainsaw Massacre ill Music Box Bomonthe Fourth ofJuly By DINA SCJJWEITZER Arts Edit()l' In the Nott Memorial on Saturday, January 2(), Proctor's Too presented MliR. -MUR. an unusual production by the DYNAMO Theatre Company in which an 11-foot red brick wall served as a catalyst for die entire perfonnance... · ,... . ,o .t;., ·..-.; .~ ~ '~ v Jf!. The Little Mermaid Blaze Ski Patrol Steel Magnolias Back to the Future II Tremors Tango and Cash Glory Internal! Affairs Always All Dogs Go to Heaven War of the Roses Call Theaters for Show Times. Ih this story, the ,])layers use the wall as a depar.ture point and home b'~se for their .acrobatics, mime gestures. and cartoon-like antics. As the story line unfolds, however, the wall becomes a part of the it environment and subsequently represents their neighborhood. In fact, as the players sit, climb, and lean against the wall we see the importance of the. wall in the reaim of their lives. Mur-Mur atthe Nott THE ABYSS In the opening. all of the throughout the show. actors sat on and in between Prut of the fun and adventure the brick ledges of tile wall. As in Mur~ Mur was the players' music began to play, the use. of trap doors, brick ledges, player'S moved ill miming secret windows, and costume. gestures in order to de~attach _ In one part of the performance themselves from th~ wall, and the players put on brick-like thus the story began. face- masks and clothing in Mur-Mur was about two order to become unified with couples who engaged in love- the wall. But,. once they got hate relationships, while a fifth out of their 'brick' attire they player, who resembled the little resumed their childish games kid brother you never wanted by playing monkey-in~the­ around, jealously mocked the middle and Supennan. aspects of love. Nevertheless, Mur-Mur was the kind of through mime, circ11s acts •. and production that left a glimmer voice, these players formed of wonderme~t in the· faces of friendships which developed children, and quite fTankly it is ll······ll WRUC The Dutchmen Sports Network Show .Pick of the Week: with Christos Nikolis Pete Amato PJ Androjkovics I Davie Sachar Andy Seewald & Mike Schulitz Duritig hockey season, stay tuned to the most colorful of commentators. the WRUC Sports Staff.. Next game is Saturday at 7:00 against. Norwich. Also. there's Spor:t$line every Sunday at 8:00. and Skating Dutchmen weekly on Mo;n.days at 8:30. hard to muster up tbe proper words that can effectively upstage this production. In any event, the show was unjquely put together a11d well choreo.graphed. 1L was fascinating to watch the players contort alld fasten themselves to the wall, and one cannot help but imagine the type of preparalion and skill necessary to perform such acrobatics. And just a word for those of you wh~ caught Mur- . Mur at the_ Nott~ please don't try any of those silly-putty antics in the privacy of your own home! January 26-28 7, 9, 11 P.M. r--~------------------, CLIP - N - SAVE I - I I I I THE NEW 8.97 I I I 1 What's read more; this little section before the countdown, or 1 I instructions on how to use aspirin? Thought so. Listen to 'two of f I these albums and see a physician immediately. Thank you. I I I I Artist 1. They Might Be Giants 2. Kate Bush 3. lenny Kravitz 1 4. Jesus & Mary Chain · 5. Michael Penn I 6. Mcrrissey 12 10 1 7. Tha Creatures 8. Psych. Furs I 8,97 Ministry I Title Flood The Sensual World Let Love Rule Automatic March _ \Ouija Board\ Boomerang Book of Days The Mind Is A Terrible ... Eyebrow Raiser:\Cycles\, The Fundamentals Programming Notes: Tri·via. Now, more than ever. Lable Elektra Columbia Virgin Warner Bros. RCA Sire Geffen Columbia Sire I I I I I I I I I I Sunday, Feb. 18th at 8:00pm to 11:00 pm Sunday, Feb. 25th at 8:00pm to 10:00 pm Sunday, March 4th at 8:00pm to 10:00 pm ~-~-~-~---------~-----~ <-

CONCORDIENSJS, January 25, 1990 Page 17 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Mur-Mur Doesn't Mumble Texas Chainsaw Massacre III Music Box Born on the Fourth of July By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Editor In the Nott Memorial on Saturday, January 20, Proctor's Too presented MUR-MUR, an unusual production by the DYNAMO Theatre Company in which an 11-foot red brick wall served as a catalyst for the entire perfonnance. The Little Mermaid Blaze Ski Patrol Steel Magnolias Back to the Future ri Tremors Tango and Cash Glory Internal Affairs Always AlL Dogs Go t() Heaven War ()f the Roses Call Theaters for Show Times. In this story, the players use the wal:l as a departure point and home base for their acrobatics, mime g~stures, and cartoon-like antics. As the story line unfolds, however, the wall becomes a :part of their environment and Sllbsequently represents their neighborhood. In fact, as the players sit, climb, and lean against the wall we see the importance of the waH in the realm of their lives. Mur·Mur at the Nett THE ABYSS In the opening, all of the actors sat on and in between the brick ledges of the wall. As music began to play, the players moved in miming gestures in order to de-attach themselves from the wall, and thus the story began. Mur-Mur was about two couples who engaged in love- hate relationships, while a fifth player, who resembled the little kid brother you never wanted around, jealously mocked the aspects of love. Nevertheless, through mime, circus acts, and voice, these players formed friendships which developed throughout the show. Part of the fun and advenlurc in Mur-Mur was the play~rs' use of trap doors, brick led~es. secret windows, and costume. In one part of the performance the players put on brick-~ike face masks and clothing in order to become unified '1Vith the wall. But, once they got out of their 'brick' attire they resumed their childish games by playing monkey-in·tlle- middle and Superman. Mur-Mur was the kincl of production that left a glimmer of wonderment in the faces of children, and quite frankly it is. WRUC The Dutchmen Sports Network Show Pick of the Week: with Christos Nikolis Pete Amato PJ Androjkovics Davie Sachar Andy Seewald & Mike Schulit:z Durlng hockey season, stay tuned to the most colorful of commentators, the WRUC Sports Staff. Next game is Saturday at 7:00 against Norwich. Also, there's Spertsllne every Smtday at 8:00 . and Skating Dutchmen weekly o.n Mondays at 8:30. hard to muster up the proper words that can effectively upstage this production. In any event, the show was uniquely put together and well choreographed. It was fascinating to watch the players contort and fasten themselves to the wall, and one cannot help but imagine the type of preparation and skill necessary to perform such acrobatics. And just a word for those of you who caught Mur- Mur at the Nott, please don't try any of those silly-putty antics in the privacy of your own home! .- 1 I I I ------- THE ------ CLIP - N - SAVE January 26-28 7, 9,11 P.M. ------ ----- NEW 8.97 I I I I 1 What's read more; this little section before the countdown, or 1 I instructions on how to use aspirin? Thought so. Listen to two of 1 I these albums and see a physician immediately. Thank you. I I I Artist 1. They Migllt Be Giants 2. Kate Bush 3. Lenny Kravitz 4. Jesus & Mary Chain 5. Michael Penn 6. Mcrrissey 12\ 1 7. Tha Creaiures 8. PBfCh. Furs I 8.97 Ministry I I I I I Title Flood The Sensual World Let Love Rule Automatic March \Ouija Board\ Boomerang Book of Days The Mind Is A Terrible ... Eyebrow Raiser: \Cycles\, The Fundarnen1als Programming Notes: Trivia. Now, more than ever. Lable Elektra Columbia Virgin Warner Bros. RCA Sire Geffen Columbia Sire I I I I I I I I I I I Sunday, Feb. 18th at 8:00 pm to 1 t:OO pm Sunday, Feb. 25th at 8:00 pm to 10:00 pm Sunday, March 4th at 8:00pm to 10:00 pm I I I L---------------------J

J..' • j Page 18' CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Nigbt Supper - January 30 at 5 p.m. - All Union students are invited to use meal card, go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC203 and join other members of Newman for supper and a \Coloring Party\ to send Valentine Cards to shut-ins. All materials supplied. All you have to do is fill in with colors of your choice and address envelopes. Farano House • On Tuesday, February 13 a group will visit Farano Center for Children, opened in November, 198 7 that pro vi des comprehensive services to children affected by HIV infection and AIDS as well as to children with other special medical, physical, and developmental needs. We will leave from the College Center at 1:30 p.m. and drive to Albany where we will be given a tour of the facility, an opportunity to play with the children, bring them V alentinc presents and if you wish to visit a day care close by where children who have been adopted attend programs. We will return to Union by 5 p.m. If you wish to go please give your name to Sister Joan who will arrange transportation. Confirmation - Any Union student who has not been confirmed may contact Sr. Joan at the College Center 404B. Classes in preparation for Bishop Hubbard's visit in the· spring will be arranged with student schedules in mind. Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. The group welcomes anyone to join who regularly attends this Liturgy. Tutoring - Union College students neded to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools Please contact Sheila Humiston 372-9231. Any former tutors please write to Sheila at Box 965 and let her know if you are keeping the same assignment or have changed it. Visiting Shut-Ins .. Any Union student who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please contact Gerri Borne at 372-3381. Video Program - 0 n Tuesday, January 30 at St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are welcome to attend a video program \Jesus As I Know Him, Segment 8: 'Save Your Heart fot Love\' in which John Powell, S.J. shares his feelings about Jesus and what he means in Father Powell's everyday COWCORDIENSIS, Jtm·uary 25; 1'990 CAMPUS NEWS life. Study Guides and discussion questions. will be provided. . . Center. We need performers. · CLASSIFIEDS sing, dance, play an ----------- • instrument, read poetry'! Call Bible Group · Study/Prayer On Tuesday, January 30 from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's Schol Library there will be a continuation of a study of the GOSPEL OF MAITHEW. AU Pan;hellenic is sponsoring a Leslie 393-7413 or Emily 386- 4365 ASAP. arewelcome. cabaret t<> benefit the ...,......,....... __ ........-_,_.,........-- · · Schenectady Rape Crisis COLLEGE CENTER WEEKLY SCHEDULE Thursday, January 25, 1990 11:30 a.m. Cere:sano 5:00p.m. 9:00p.m. CCAUD Minerva Hour: Susan CC410 Tai Chi Class CC302 CABARET Friday, January 26, 1990 7 & 9 & 11 Film Committee: The Abyss Saturday, January 2 7, 1990 5:00p.m. 7 &9 & 11 UCDH Culinary Expose' Film Committee: The Abyss Sunday, January 28, 1990 5:00 p.m. Dutch Hollow: Super Bowl Party 7 & 9 & 11 Film Committee: The Abyss Monday, .January 29, 1990 . 6:30p.m. Challenge 7:00p.m. 7:30p.m. . CCAUD College Bowl Faculty CC203 S.P .A.A. Meeting CC406 Moden1 Lang. Films Tuesday, January 30, 1990 7:00 p.m. CC410 Public Speaking Prelims 7:30 p.m. CC406 Plateful of Questions: \What If Your Roommate's Gay'?\ Wednesday, January '31, 1990 3:00p.m. 5:00p.m. 6:00p.m. 7:00p.m. 7 &'9 & ll CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting CC302 Meditation Study CC409 Speaking Ha:nds CC410 Public Speaking Prelims Film Committee: DOA -------'-~• Weekly Crossword~- \THE GREAT WHITE W,AV\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 \ li!Jht Express'\ 5 Patrick's Aunt 9 \Same Next Year\ 13 Child's tool 14 Ugly duckling's alte.r ego 15 Single part 16 Black comedy with Old · Lace 18 George Herman __ 19 Georges : French pointillist painter 20 Fish eggs 21 _bien: french very well 22 ___ A: Alli mal org. 23 Les~-- 26 King o1 Tllebes: Mythology 28 Regret bitterly 29 The cost of \Butterflies\ on Broadway 31 Just right no m~;~re _ __ ! 34 Precedes \TEN\: Close tightly 37 Reckons 39 Mr. Harrison on Broadway 40 Portmanteau 42 Sum up 43 Trembling lrom fear 46 Con 47 Comes before \cue\? 48 \ Year Itch\ 50 ' 1 _ Whorehouse in Texas\ 54 Youth Hostels Assoc. 57 Soft drink: 58 Bat wood 59 Distressing 61 Cordell -~ 62 Neil Siman hit: 2 wds 64 Apple eater 61 64 67 65 Dry 66 \To __ huma11\ 67 Monster's Loch 68 Being: Latin 69 Pepper's partner DOWN 1 Bacterial infection 2 \How_~- in Business ... \ 3 Swear 4 Change the title 5 Sci. graduate degree 6 Conscious 7 Main house B Charms 9 uvoice of the __ \ 10 Habituate 11 Little bugs 12 Biblical endings 13 Back talk 17 Follows '&DEPOS\: Written testimony 24 Sawwooll 25 Place u11der arrest 27 Dream time 29 Gov't regulatory org. 30 Buttons or._$kelton 32 Precedes \RECHAUN\: Little person 33 Be 34 Fanny :Brice bio 35 Hartl WGrker 36 Water or snow sport 38 Editor's proof word 41 Norma or Charlotte 44 Get sicll again 45 Alluvial :Plain 47 sacre«< poems 49 Parts of the Bible 50 Precedes \USE\: Sofa or settee 51 M$. Fitzgerald .and otllers 52 Small islands 53 11 _' -gold in them thar hi11s\! 55 Advice to batter: 2wds , 56 Top· gtJns 57 Chinese detective 60 Atmosphere 63 Comes after ~'why\? © 199() GFR Assodates All Right> Reserved P.O. Box 9104. Schenectady. N.Y. 12309 2/90

., CAMPUS NEWS CLASSIFIEDS up to $600 wekly plus free · roorn and board. Call now! Call refundable. l-206-736- 0715 ext. 1844H. Lonely? Need a date? Meet that special sorneone today! Call DA'I'ETIME (405) · Attention: Earn money · 366-6335. · , reading books! $32,000/year Jobs in Alaska: Hiring : men - women summer/year , round. ·Canneries, fishing, lagging, tourism, ·construction · income potential. Details (1} · 602~838-8885 Ext. Bk 7090. Desperately seeking a 198~ yearbook. WiH pay Do You Want VISA & MasterCard · Crttdlt Cards? · I . ' $50 and up ... If interested please call {516) 764-7755. Attention: Earn money typing at home! $32,000/yr income potential. Details, 1- 602-83 8-8885. ext. T-7090, Attention - Hiring! Govt. jobs - your area. Many immediate epenings without waiting Hst or test. $17,840 - $69,485. Call l-602-838 ext. R 7090. Attention - Gvt. seized vehicles from $ WO. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers .guide. 1-602- 838-8885 ext. A-7090. Attention m Govt. homes from $1 (u-repair). Delinquent, tax property. Repossessions. Calll-602-838-8885. Found - a royal blue pullover jacket w/keys in pocket, lost identical jacket of my own. Please contact 377- 0820 to identify jacket. Thanks. Now·-Vou cnd·,~ve lwo 9t themo~l recogrmed an at;cepled·credet 'I y~~-_,. _ 1 · · cards,nthe'!Vmld;' ... v_tsA•andMast~rCarct'_o::rE;~ditear<is ... '\inyour , ~- 1 wmnt \JISA•tMasterCat~ -1 •--..;_-----~---------------. o•rne\ EVEN IF YOU ARE NEW IN ·CR~OIT or ·HAVE BEEN 1 d't d ·E cloo dl-11 d $1'5 00 which is nJR~EO OOWN-8EFbRE1 ere i car S. n _ . e n · ·I 1 ()QQb ·refundable 1f ·not nf!ptov@ld.immedlately. ,.., r,\'r'# ~ ,.t;'' .. ~ (J.. ~0 ,_.o . ,<' . '\ -Y1SA!i'and'M8stert:ard'' the crltdlt cards· ·I you desen~e al1d-i1eEd 'o' ~- 10 .- ... eoO~S· 1 --. -------- * OEI>ARTMENTSTORES <r ·TUITION I NAME <r·ENTERTAI NMENT ,._ EMERGENCY CASH ·• TiC~ETS <r RESTAURANTS I ~ HOTELS-<r·GAS<rCARRENTALS I~-~ .. -~-----~ * REP.O.IRS *AND TO BUILD ADDRESS YOUR·CREOIT-RATINGI ! ~~~----~-~ I CITY STATE ZIP I '-------~----- VIS~\\''ISTI;RCJ,Ril : PffONE. ·t i-----------~--- 1 SOC. SECURITY'# A.JJproval absolutely I guanmleed so Huny •. 11111. ---~---~-- -· - I _ou\'thls card today· .... 1 I t V'ourcredlt cartl's are wa1tingf : : _ 1 AVAIL.ABil- ot-~ . MEALCARJ>S . RA·P·E CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady.·· Planned Parenthood: Hotline: 346- 2~6 EAC.H STOP IN I TOOA)'. t: Pag-e 19 · . P.V. You arc a geni11s- An As-; but . a genius! Schenectady Housing Dept. . · Please leave my owners alone. Bailey • Save the Javad name: • Pronounce it correctly. Jaah-Vodd. Thank you for your support. Rosie, happy B-elay! from the gang Mike we all love you! from aU the goa:,geous women on campus Kevin, I look forward to.sccing you on . Friday. Love, Judith Hey Hop A Long Friedman - Hope you get en your feet real soon. - Love, Dina Frank, IL's been a great ~ear and a half. Tc amo muilo. Terry Sogdish (Aka.Jel!hro) Nice job. How llout writing my thesis now?! ! CAB Rob Curt, I'd rather cat lint. What?! Zim MTZ Get off that! Biff 'N \Corkster\ Schenectady Hoiusing Once again up yours. R.S .C.H.K.M.Z.C.B .E.B.P.J. Attention: Easy work. Ex.cellent pay! Assemble products at home. Details 1-602-&38-8885 ex- 7090. Corky & Bif, Cape Cod this summer? Okay maybe j111st Bloomfield, Missouri. z As your attorney, I advise you to drive at top s:peed. To Bath term 88, Great exhibit, it brought back wonderful mem()ries. -Bath tenn 89 Tweet - It's been bizarre, but that's not too bad. You-know- what Love- You-know who! l - ·'

Page ·2o ,CAMPUS -NEWS PERSONALS Anna Maria., Anna, Bess~ & Rob, · Looks like I'm full of stones. ·TJacy just lceep com-ing and Hello to all the little people! Billy, Brat, Jason, Jim, Jared, Hat never end! Love,Jen Go to Balh! Go lo Bath! Go to Bath! Noelle, Tbanks for always being there for me. Rem.ember, I'll always be there fot ra. Love,Jcn STUDY FOR ONE YEAR OR FOR ONE OR TWIO TERMS IN OXFORD Several colleges of Oxford University have invited The Washington International Studies Conncil to recommend qualified students. to stu.dy for Qne year or for one· or two terms. Lower Junior status is required. and graduate study is available. Students are directly enrolled In their colleges and receive transcripts from their Oxford college: this is NOT a program conducted by a U.S. College in Oxford. 3.2 minimum index in major required. An altemative program whlch is sponsoored by a U.S. University is available for students With millliinum indexes of 2. 7. Students will have social and athletic rtg.hts in an Oxford college and the fees are substantially less. INTERN IN WASHINGTON, LONDON WISC offers summer internsWps with Comgress, with the White House, with the media and \With think tanks. GoveiTliilent and Journalism courses are ~ttght by senior- level government officials., who are also scholars, and by experienced journalists. Similar opportunities in public policy internships are offered .(with academic credit) .in London (Fall, Spring and Sumtner). Wi4SC EO/ AA Tl:te Washington International Studies Council · 214 MascSachusettsAve., N.E. Suite 450 Washington, D.C. 20002 (202) 547-3275 SHOE- by Jeff MacNel/y Linguinie, Sorry I drive you nuts · · sometimes but at least I keep you laughing and smiling. I love you like a \sis.\ Love, TorteDHni BOWL for KIDS' SAKE' A chaUenge· to all .fraternities and sororities to benefit Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Sigma Phi has won the challenge for the past two years, securing the Travelling Trophy in the Big Brothers/Big Sisters. Bowl for Kids' Sake. Accept the chaUengel Aim to win the trophy_! Great individual prizes available also. Call 37 4- 4523 for more information. you love, love the one you're • , with. Leslie- \ You better find out just what you've done wrong, .. \ (hands Spaghetti and meatball~ to the left, hands to the right). We just wanted to say iii to our · · Love,. Ann Matgrock • hot and spicy friends. Love, Linguinie and T<>rtellini Heed the blinking shutter of life .... Jill e- we love the way you struld up for yourself! Never .q dull moment... 6 more weeks buddy! Dogger, Squirrel, Ca, Mer, Air, Yarsh, Jon, Jay. & Denise, Thanks for t,he best birthday ever. Let's do it again. Next time we will ski. Jen Cardamore. Love, Cat \We.don'tstop playingbecause we grow old,. because we stop playing.\ Keep smiling! · Love,. Maray Gillespie Gamma Phis, Can we keep our nose.s clean for another week?? HeyJ Happy hoUF was longer than that! I'll miss, yon this weekend, but won't you enjoy a confrontationless weekend. Bring spme good jokes back. xoxo, L ! PWG --Dude, I should have warned you it was going to be messy, but you lived through it. .. I'll hold him down ... LW Lulu, I hope Spain is fun. Your letter must have gotten lost in the mail. Write to us. we need your address! Lo-ye, March & Anna Mona, Which death do you prefer? Red · or.,.? Thanks for a happy ... hour. Let's do it again! Love, Jaim PEH, Now which one was that? T or V? Love,.L &J L, Hey dude you made it... Thanks to the Simpsons. Love, J. WllH, A QZTC HZE! -PWDZJ Gamma Phi Beta Pledges- Get psyched for Friday night! Love, the Sisters Gamma Phi Seta., · Don't worry about the \F\ word! Dead ants. Chris Let's just have fun R.Reed Michele M.M., Summer house in -Saratoga, winter home in NYC. It'll be . great. The Rapper A liberal can never count out a conservative's view, so a liberal can never win. Congratulations SDT on getting the highest grade point on campus. Keep up the good work! Rachel Whitmore: So psyched to have you as a liLtle sis! You'll know who I run soon enough. Love, YBS . Happy Birthdayj Burlap! You're finally 21! No more guides for you! Love you, Cindy /

/ ~ONCORDllj:NSIS·, · Jan-uar.y .. 25-, ·19!JO < ·-. - • - - -· • ..... ' • --·.. ~ --THt= PSYCHOLOGY C4UB PRE~ENTS- . :NUTS Starring BARBARA STREISAND & RICHARD D.R:EYFUSS TONIGHT at 7:30 Psych Bldg. Room 1'02 REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED.!! Last Chance! '89Prices+ B.· .. Savings. During the dates shown below, discounts of buying: ArtCarved is offering at '89 prices. We you the last chance '· · · · .. have some ; to buy before great new our February . · ·····styles to. show you as well... pnce mcrease. · so check out the ArtCarved ring Now you can save up to days and ask about ou $80 and still receive the special financing additional plans. COLLEGE CENTER~ R T(/1 ~yj~EQ ATRIUM Jan. 29,30,31 1990 10 am- 4pm $25.00 Location Dale· Time · Depoc;il Required . . ' VISA I • .• -ll-' Payment Plans Available I .. _ --1 Page 21 Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!! .,_.

Page 22 <itttnrorbirnsis SPORTS'· Swim Teams Split Dual Meet With Hartwick By JAIMTE I.:.IPSHER On Saturday, January 20, 1990, the Union swimmers took to the road and headed up to Hartwick College for a dual meet. They returned to Schenectady with a split decision;. the men's team iost 124 to 98 and the women's team won 144 to 97. The Dutchmen had some close races early on in the meet but unfortunately got touched out enough times to make a big difference. For instance, in the first event, the 400 yard medley relay, Union put four of their strongest swimmers together, Tony Tremaglio, Sven Zabka, Cliff Shaw, and Andy Wagsh ul, but they were still unable to pull into first place. Hartwick touched them out with a winning time of 3:46:93 and Union pulled in second with a time of 3:47:05. Coach Bassett felt that \Hartwick swam really well,\ and after they captured first place in the first five events she noted that it \sort of took the wind out of our sails.\ However, there were some highlights to the meet. After breaking the 1000 yard freestyle school record last week, Cliff Shaw this week broke the school record in the 500 yard freestyle with a time of 5:06:22. Shaw also placed second in the 100 Butterfly as he was touched out by only 2/1 OOths of a second. In addition to Shaw, Tony Tremaglio performed well. He won the 200 yard breastroke event with a time of 2:20:50, only 1/2 of a second off the school record. In the diving competion, Dave Robison captured first place in both the one and ·three meter di'ling with scores of 213.95 and 214.60, respectively. His score in the one meter diving earned him a school record. On the other hand, the women's swim tneet ended on a . more positive note. Kerstin Dorse was a double winner. taking first place in both the 1000 and 500 yard freestyle events. Kathy Ka'lalley also placed fi:tst in two events. She captured the 50 freestyle and tile 1 00 yard butterfly w}1ile freshman Sharon Gatt dominated the 200 yard· freestyle with a winning time of 2:01:14. A good deal of strength in the meet came from the divers as Union placed fust, second, and third on the one meter hoard. Freshmaa Kristy Holbrook not only placed first in the one meter but captared that title in the three meter as well. According to Coach Bassett, \We swam consistently well; it was a good effort on our part. Though we pretty much dominated and swam well enough to win, it was nothing terrific. not one of our exceptional performances.\ Next Satarday, February 3, both the Union men's and women's swim teams take on Hamilton at home. The meet begins at 2 p.m. Come cheer the teams on at their last home meet of the season. It will be t.he final chance to see seniors Cindy Curtis, Kathy Kavaney, Mary Kelly, Lisa Pizzllto, and Lee Fraiji perform. THE SKY'S THE UMIT . FORAIRFORCE ROTC CADETS. No matter what your plans for a career. there's a way to give them even. greater potential. Join Air Force ROTC in college. The rest is summed up in ()De word: opportunity. .. Opportunities to apply for scholarships that will help you pay for colleg-e. Opportunities to expand your horizons in different technical areas. Opportunities to learn leadership skills that will enhance your whole career. From there, a vast wealth of opportunities con- tinues to open for those who seek an outstanding career. Contact CAPT DAVID MILEWSKI-518-276-6236 Leadership Excellence Starts Here Men 1 s Track F.-es Well In First .. Tri-Meet Of Season, B>y SPORTS STA:F.F Last weekend, the Union Running Dutchmen fared well in their first tri-meet against Harnilt<;>n and Williams. At the end ofthe day, the finatscore was Williams 78, Union 51, and Hamilton 35. This early season su~cess offers promise for a successful season. Senior co-captain Chip Silver led the team with three first place finishes including a . leap of 1.93m (6'4\) in the high jump and a 55 meter · hurdle Lime of 8.2 seconds. Turning in strong performances in the field events were Art Broga, W,ho dominated the long · and triple jumps with leaps of 6.36m and 13.03m respectively., earning him two first place finishes, and Matt Guyette, wh() took first place in the shot put with a throw of 44'7 1/4\. Co-captain Jeff Simkins had .a promising day finishing second in the 55 met~r hurles wilh a time of8.3 seconds and :second in the 500 meters in 1:08.5. Additional second place performers were Will Allen. who ran a 53 .. 0 seco11d 400m, and freshman Matt Decker, who sprinted to a 6. 7 second S5m .dash time . Team depth was demonstrated by the large number of fourth place finishers. :Sdb Lindyberg ran the 80~) meters in 2:06.1, Doug Martocci ran a 4:37~7in the 1500 meters, Shawn Mowry 1brew 35'105'• in the shot put, Rich Zembrick tur11ed ill an 8.9 second 55 meter hurdle time, Matt Decker long jumped 6.08 meters .• Jeff Simkins ·high jumped 1. 78 mete;Js,· freshman E.d Dorsey ran a 2:52.2. in the 1000 meters and Bill Taylor sprinted a 24.2 sec<Jnd 200 meters. The most excfting event of the day was, the men's mile relay. Will Allen, Jeff- Siml9ns, Chip Silver, .and Bill Taylor fought hard throt1ghout the race and were abfe to capture first place for their efforts. This weekend the team will be hosting. the Union Invitational and would very mudt appredate. the support of the students and faculty. Accounting Arcbltecture Chiropractic Dental Hygiene Engineering Optometry Pharmacy· Physlcai Therapy Physical Therapy Assistant Physician's Assistant 'Podiatry LancS$cape Arch ltecture Law Nursing Oceupatlonal Therapy .occupational Therapy Assistant Ophthalmic Dispensing Psychology Social work Speech-Lan.guage Pathology/1\udlclogy Veterinary Medicine For Academic Year 1990-91 ELIGIBILITY Award Amoun1s: Up to $5,000 per year To be eligible, a candidate is required to: • have been a legal resident of New Yori< State for one year prior to September 1, 1990 • have the completed application postmcarked by May 1, 1990 • agree to practice his/her profession witllin New York State for a specified period of time AWARD SELECTION Awards will be made to eligible candidates in the following order of priority: • candidate is economically disadvantaged alld a minority group merntlerwho is historically underrepresented in the profession • candidate is a minority group member underrepresented in the prof~ssion • candidate who is enrolled in or who completed undergraduate work through assistance from the HEOP, EOP, SEEK or College Discovery opportunity programs Candidates need not have applied to or been accepted at a professional sc:hO()I to apply for the scholarships. Acceptance and attendance at an approved professional school are necessary to retain a scholarship. -......._ Candidates are responsible for filing applications on time. Materials not receiVed on titne will not be considered for the competition. For scholarship application and information, write to: $TATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT State and Federal Scholarship and Fellowship Unit Room5C64 Cultural Education Center Empire State Plaza Albany, New York 12230 Telephone: (518) 474·6394 ANYONE INTERESTED IN WRITING FOR SPORTS, PLEASE COME UP TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE, ROO,M 303· IN THE CO'LLEGE . CENTER ON TUESDAY AT 6:00· - FREE PIZZA-& SODA

CONCORDJENSIS,. [-tlnuary 25, 1990 Page 23 .SPORTS Mouthing Off ·Debbie Dumas Sets 4 School- Records By MARK ZIMM·ERMAN Sports Editor This week'.s Athlete of the Week is freshma11 runner Debbie Dumas. In the women's track meet against' rival · Hamilton, Uni()n prevailed 58 to 11. In the vict&ty,. Dumas.- set four school records and- scored 20 points on her own; more than a sufficie11t amount to beat Hamilton on her own. In the · meet, Dvmas set records in :the tripl~ jump (10.5 meters), the long j11mp (4.73 Debbie Dumas who set records in the Triple High and Long Jum;ps, and High Hurdles., meters), the higll jump (1.57 meters) and the 55 ~meter high hurdles (9.0 secoe\ls) .. The four records qualifiect lle.r for both the State and ECAC meets. This is Debbie•s .first season on the team and .slieh.as already left her muk. Coach Harrington spoke: llighly .of her natural abilities a:11d beHeves with the proper dedication and commitment she collld be even ·better. Congratulations to Debbie Dumas on her ex.ceptional week and good lllCkthroughout the season. Women's Varsity Basketball Wins- 3rd Straight By RON BIRNIJAUM This past Satqrday, the Union Women's Varsity basketball team came away with ·a 60-48 victory over SUNY Binghamton at Memorial Fieldhouse. This brings the team, C()ached by four year veteran Bonnie . Gehling, close to the .500 mark. They have won their last three games and now have a record of 6-7. The team's previous victories O\Ver North Adams State and Williams; combined with this latest win over SUNY B, surely gave them great confidence going into their game this past .Wednesday against St. Rose. Union has a terrific chance to surpass last year's 10 victory .500 season. In the SUNY Bi11ghatnton game, the lady Dutchmen played aggressively and held a 33-19 point lead at the half. Sophomore forward Robin Rorrier sparkled in the first half, pouring in 17 points and grabbing 11 rebounds. Binghamton closed the gap in the second period, coming within 6 at one point, but Uni()n hung tough and won by 12. Romer and Sophomore co- captain Gina Prokosch led Union with 19 points each . Senior guard and co-captain Wendy Vincent helped out as well with her 6 assists. Forwards Jean Lopata and Kelly Price had 8 points each and played well under the boards. Also. to be commended for their efforts are Sophomore guard Jennifer Hill, who had 2 points with 4 rebounds coming off the bench, Sophomore guard Kate Alquist with 2 assists, Sophomore forward Sue Mautner, who had several rebounds, and forward Nicole VanGendt. According to first year assistant coach Laurie Quattrini, \We're. playing real wen: together as a·team lately. The chemistry is there and people · are really working together. We'vr:! ltad some touglt games a~itinst some tough teams and we played well in them.\ P'~rhaps the hardest and most heartbreaking game of the year ~as against SUNY Albany. \Wiiere Union was up by 14 p()illts at the half, and ended U:i> l()~ing after succumbing to die Great Dane's ferocious press. The team is currently playing \•ery well <iefensively and capable of a Lot of scoring, but there is still .a need for more consistency from the starters. The lady Dutchmen are working hard <>n their rebounding and 11bility to find the open shot. H<lpef ully, their three latest willS. will give Union the confidence to overcome their shallow bench and relative lack ()f .lleight. THETA' DELTA CHI RACQUETBALL TOURNAMENT February 2 through 4 Anyone can· plq - Lots of Prizes. CONTRlBUTORS INCLUDE: Student Af1airs Office Anakonda Kaye Sporting Goods Union Ooll~ge Bdokstore Frielildly's Michelle's Restaurant Mahattah Exchange Goldstock's Sporting G()l)dS Shenanigan's Hair Salon Ben and Jerry's *REG'ISTRATION BEGINS J:AN .. 23 Fee .. $5.00 Donation *All proceeds go to the Am·erican Cancer Society By ANDY BRAVER. Sports EditDr This week's column is dedicated to those incredible reigning champions who, after Super Bowi XXIV this Sunday. will no longer reign alone. After the San Francisco 49ers promptly dispos:e of the bumblng Broncos from the mile-high city, they will be recognized as the champions of the football world al()ng with the team of two decades past (remember we are in the 1990s now!) Sports fans and writers alike long, for winners. Consistent winners. We all long for dynasties, individuals and teams which will be remembered througllout the ages. This desire is inherent in American society-- we need a winner, some person or persons who, for an extended period of time, in ev·ery way dominate their sport. The Green Bay Packers won the first two Super- Bowls and dominated the football field in the 1960s the way John Wooden's UCLA Bruin hoopsters dominated the hardwood floors.The San Franciso 49ers have done the same in the 1980s. They have won consistently for the past de<;ade and, after their inevitable victory on Sunday. will become only the third team to win back-to-back Supe~ Bowls. The Pittsburgh Steelers were the second tearri to win the 'Big Game' in consecutive seasons. But they also achieved something which has yet to be duplicated-- they repeated as Super Bowl champions twice, in 1974 and '75, and againin '78 and '79. And, until Sunday evening, they are the only team to have won four Super Bowls. The Pittsburgh S teeters of the 1970s fulfilled the expectations of the American public; they became the winners, the dynasty which we long for and so admire in sports. However, it took the Steelers over four dec~des to finally become winners. This is the same Steeler franchise which until January 9, 1970, hadn't won anything in th.e NFL except last place, year after year. On this particular Friday night, the Steelers' luck changed for the better-- they won a coin flip. It doesn't sound like much, but what it started was a series of victories which would not end until a warm Sunday evening in Anaheim, California on the third weekend of tile next decOOe. With this first victory, the Steelers won the first pick in the college draft, which they used to select Terry Bradshaw, an incredibly strong.-armed quarterback from a small southern school, Louisiana Tech. The rest is history .. But it is the Stcelers' history which makes this story so intriguing. Coaching and front office mistakes were tl1e reason this team languished in last for so many years. In the late 1950s, the Steelers had a rookie quarterback :in traini .. ,g camp who they thought wasn't good enough, so they cut him. His name was Johnny Unitas, and even to this day he's considered the best quarterback ever to play the game of football. A year later, they drafted another quarterback named Len Dawson instead of Jim Brown. After a few seasons of frustration and losing, Dawson was quietly traded to K;msas City for nobody special. Brown, of course, is the best running back in the history of the game, and Dawson led the Chiefs to a win in Super Bowl IV. Needless to say, all three players are in the Hall of Fame. There are already two players from the Steelers dynasty of the 1970s in the Hall-- Joe Greene and Jack Ham. Many more wiH follow: Bradshaw, Lynn Swann, Jack Lambert, Mel Blount, John Stallworth, Mike Webster, Donnie Shell, Franco Harris, and the list goes on. But this list of players began as names on the draft board back in the early '70s. The scouts then selected them i:t the drafts and turned the job of molding them into winners overto Chuck Noll. the coach. Noll did his job very wel1. but he didn't nave to keep changing things. This core of great players was there from the time the S teelers won their first Super B.owl in 1974. The player's average age at that time was 25.2. In the January 22, 1990 issue of Sports Illustrated, Peter King wrote an article entitled \The Steel Age\ on the domination of the Pittsburgh Stcclcrs and how they forever changed the game of professional football. Here is an excerpt from King's article: \In football, nothing is built to last. The 1980s were a testament to that. Look at the one-year wonders in the decade, like the New York Giants and the (Chicago) Bears. Only the San Francisco 49ers were resistant to the short-timer syndrome. And even the 49ers ... were largely retooled as the decade went on. But the Steelers built a champinshp team in the early '70s that remained intact for eight years. They Won four Super Bowls with essentially the same players ... From '72 to'79. they never lost more than five games in a year ... They were our football team, our singular team, for an era\ The Pittsburgh Steelers of the 1970s were winners. They won and :won consistently while others could not. They defied the odds, and when rules were changed to try and stack the odds against the Steelers. they continued to defy them. They were awesome •. they will always be awesome, and will be remembered as one of the greatest dynasties to take the field in the history of sports. •

I;,. i, ... .., 0 b ::t: 0. Ul ...J u:: ·til ~ ,;. -~ 3 i= ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ The women's Swim Team defeated Hartwick 144-97. Article .a.. appears on page 22. Dan Q.ould and Ter·ry Campbell. .. pressure LOU' G.ermaln of Geneseo. Geneseo pre.valled 1n the, end bY a score of 3;.1. Women's Track Team Sets 6 School Records By MEG PARSONS This past Saturday at Hamilton College, the Women's Indoor Track Team found theirhard work is already paying off .. After two difficult weekends at Ivy Leagu.e Invitationals, the women were able to show their true colors against two formidable rivals. The final score was Union 58, Hamilton 11, and Williams 85 But don't let the numbers mislead you. The women made an impressive showing in an exciting meet, especially in the shot put and the jumps. Sophomore standout Alix Goldschmidt beat her old shot put record by over one foot giving her first place in the event. Senior Beth Jewitt and Freshman Lori Simkins finished second and third in the event giving Union its only sweep of the meet. A talented new addition to the squa<;l, Freshman Debbie Dumas, set four school records while placing first in all four of her events - high jump, long jump, triple jump and 55m hurdles. The sixth school record of the day came as a surprise to even the runner herself, Sophomore Denise Saunders, as she placed second in the 55 meter dash running a 7.2 second race. After a year away from the track, Denise has proven herself to be a strong competitor in the sprints. In tile longer races, Senior Alliso11 Williams is running better than ever, placing second in the 400 meters witb a time of 65. 3. Junior &00 meter runner Meg Parsons tried a new race and placed third in a tough 500 meter race. Sophomore 400 meter runner Rika Poor withstood a gruelling day showing her versatility and strength by placing second in the 800 meters and third in the 1500 .meters. Also in the 1500 meters race was senior Eileen Brady, who returned from a year in Australia. Eileen impressed everyone placing second with a time of 4.59. Sophomore Sandy Allselment placed third in the 1 000 meters running a competitive race. The 3000 meters was well run by the freshmen pair of J en Robbins and Dawn Harrington, who sllowed their cr<lss country· strength placing third and fourth respectively. Rounding out this day at the races were the relays. In an exciti11g mile relay, the team consisting of Parsons, Williams, Poor, and Soph(),more Cindy Hunter placed in a close second behind Williams. The two mile relay team of Brady, Anselment, Harrington and Robbins also ran a respectable race. You.r chance to watch the team in action is this Sunday afternoon before the Super Bowl at the Union Open Meet held at the Fieldhouse at l:<lOp.m. THE WEEK IN REVIEW HOCKEY Union 1 Union 4 Union 63 Union 56 I Union 60 Union 144 Union 98 ' i. ... ~ . . · .. ,... _.·. MEN'S BASKETBALL WOMEN'S BASKETBALL Geneseo 3 Hamilton 1 Skidmore 59 Elmira 37 Binghamton 48 WOMEN'S SWIMMING Hartwick97 MEN'S SWIMMING Hartwick 124 MEN'S TRACK Union 51, Williams 78, Hamilton 35 WOMEN'S TRACK Union 58, Williams 85 Hamilton 11 •' . ' . January 25, 1990 Dutchmen Fall 3-1 to Geneseo - and From Ranking·s By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-chief Last Saturday night at Achilles Rink, the Dutchmen came within inches of what could have been their highest scoring game of the season. Instead, Ge~seo goaltender Lou Germain and the pip.es that flanked him turned back a 54- shot Union attack that lacked for nothing except goals. The Knights built a 2-0 lead before the Dutchmen would finally score, then held on and added an empty-net goal with six seconds left for a 3-1 victory. It was the first time that Geneseo had ever defeated Union. The loss was the Dutchmen's second in the last three games and was the most pointed example of the team's ongoing trend of not capitalizing on its opportunities. Unio::t (9-4-2, 7 -2-2) was dropped from the NCAA national rankings after having spcrit most of the first half of · the season in the top five. In the ECAC poll, which surveys only the eastern schools, the Dutchmen fell from fifth to sixth, after having reached as high as second earlier in the year. Tuesday night's game against Hamilton will most likely re- install the winner back into the NCAA top ten. The Continentals had lost two in a row heading into that game and had an 8-4 record. Against Geneseo, Craig Ferrero scored on a backhandcr from between the faceoff circles with 8:23 left in the third to pull Union to within one goal. B-ut elusive docs not even begin to describe the potential game tying tally. Hooking and holding penalties against Geneseo at 15:02 and 16:38 of the period gave the Dutchmen 3:36 of p<>Wer-play, 24 seco-nds of which was a 5 on 3 advantage. Although the Dutchmen were never really able to get fully settled or set up in the offensive zone, the power·play did see several mshes which led to ex.cellent opportunities. The b-est chance was when defenseman Greg Eccleston, cruising in from his left point spot, let go a blast from the faceoff circle to the right of Germain. The shot appeared to be labeled for the top left corner, but instead crashed into where the post and crossbar meet and deflected out .of play. Such was the story of the night. The Dutchmen hit the metal at least four times, .and those shots do not even count toward the whopping 54 they had on goal. \If we outshoot the other team, 54-22, in each of the rest of our games,\ said Union coach Bruce Delventhal, 'Til bet we'll be in_pretty good shape.'; Geneseo jumped on top when Chris Smith got in alone behind the Union defense and put the puck past Ron Kinghorn at 18;21 of the first period. Greg Zegras scored at _11:00 of the third period for a 2-0 Geneseo lead in the face of territorial domination by the Dutchmen. Union outshot Geneseo 19-3 in the third period. \You had to like the way we never gave up,\ said Delventhal: \If Geneseo falls behind 2-0, they've got their bags packed and they'd be warming up.the bus, but we kept coming.\ With the exception of Ferrero's goal, though, Germain and his posts were always on time to meet the Dutchmen wherever they might be coming to. ~ Tile leading scorers for Union: Guy Logan (12-6-18), Terry Campbell (3-12-15), and Dan Gould (3-10-13). CampbeH continues to play or.-defertse, although he does play up front on the power- play. Defenseman Peter Cotier returned to the 1\neup Tuesday night. In order to make room for Cotier, Bill Sedergren was moved up to right wing to play on a line with Tim Cregan and Tim Mashie. The Union power-play, 0 for 6 against Geneseo, was at 21.4% entering the Hamilton game. The penalty killing continues to shine,. at 90.1 %. After the Geneseo game, the Duchmen had outshot ~;he opposition 574-376, yet outscored them by only 56-5:3. Union does not return home · until February 6 when Hamilton visits Achilles. Between now and then, tile Dutchmen travel to Norwich Saturday, a 7:00 start, then to Hobart and RIT next weekend. Union 4, Hamilton 1 By ANDREW SEEWALD Tuesday night in Clinton, N.Y., the Dutchmen withstood the furious start by the Continentals before a rowdy crowd to surge to a 4 to 1 come-from-behind victory. It was the ninth win of the season for Union, which started a four game road stretch. Hamilton's Pat Murphy opened the scoring at 5:34 of tbe first period when he picked up his own rebound and put it past Union goaltender Ron Kinghorn. The Dtltchmen answered at the 19:20 mark when Bill Railton defeated Bill Sedergten's shot pa&t Grant Wood. That enabled the Dutchmen to salvage a 1-1 tie after a first period dominated by the Continentals. Union controlled play the test of the way. Dalton Menhal} and Craig Ferrero scored second period goals and. Guy Logan added one in th~ third. Meanwhile, Kinghorn made thirty saves. Peter Cotier returned to the line up and had two assists. Freshman Tim Mashie went to Lhe hospital in the second period with a broken wrist.

