Founded 1877 Vol. CXX, No. 2 New Peer Facilitator Program Reaches O,ut To Fres,hm,en By TOM ANDRUCHOW Associate News Editor Last spring a committee of seven students and seven faculty met to look at problems in male/female relationships here at Union. The committee especially examined acquaintance rape. This committee recommended creating a Peer Facilitator program similar to one already in place at RPI. After an intense selection process, eight students, four males and four females, were chosen to be Union's first Peer Facilitators. Director of the Career Development Center Joanne Peer Facilitators are not experts, but talkers who try to get students to be more open than they would be with starr. Tobiessen and Assistant Psychology professor Kenneth DeBono will coordinate the program. The program intends to look into how popular stereotypes, expectations, and misconceptions lead to difficulties in male/female relationships and how they impact acquaintance rape. The Peer Facilitators will focus, especially among freshmen, on raising general awareness of acquaintance rape, resources available if it occurs, and options of behavior to prevent it. Peer Facilitators are not experts but rather they are talkers. Their aim is to get People need to realize that acquaintance rape is illegal. students to be more candid about acquaintance rape than they would be in 'discussion with adult or staff counselors. An emphasis was placed on learning to work together as strategies for presenting workshops were practiced. They were instructed ~n how to stimulate openness by students in discussion. Additionally, they were given pertinent information about New York State law and the Student Conduct Code and also background, information about rape, stereotypes, expectations in peer relationships. During orientation 16 workshops were given to an estimated 90% of the freshman class. A video tape from the Continued on page 3 W~men's Field Hockey beat Vassar 1·0 last Saturday. Kristin Ne1lbergs scored the only goal with 23 minutes left in the second haH. Schenectady, New York October 4, 1990 Middle States Report Released Recommends All College-Owned Housing Go Co-Ed By JAY FREELAND News Editor Last week the Middle States report for Union College was released. A self-evaluation of various components of the College, this report was written in six sections by six different committees. Each committee was comprised of four or five faculty and administrators and one or two students. Yesterday, administrators, faculty, and the president of Student Forum met with Dr. Gary J. Sojka, current President of Bucknell University and Chairman of the Middle States Evaluation Team. The team will be visiting Union from December 2-5. The section which may cause the most controversy on the campus is the section on the freshman year and residence life. Within this section, the first recommendation listed states \all college owned housing, including that now occupied by Greeks, be made co-educational and available to all students.\ The reasons listed for this recommendation include: an increase in college- owned housing from 63% to 100%; equal prime housing space for both sexes and all students; and a stimulation of and integration of intellectual life in the residential system. The committee did recommend that President Hull appoint a commission to look into the matter. The section on diversity lists several changes needed at the College. After a thorough search and survey, the committee recommended three Continued on page 3 Union Enrollment Decreases By MATT LANNI Associate News Editor This year's freshman class is considerably smaller than in previous years. The Admissions Office hoped that this year's class would be 500, but the latest count is at 44 7. According to Ann Fleming, Assistant Dean of Admissions, this is due to a nation wide decrease in applicants for small liberal arts colleges like Union. Union suffered a 9% decrease in its application pool, and a 15% decrease in enrollment this year. Ms. Fleming believes that that there are two major reasons for these decreases. First, the number of students in graduating classes are decreasing, but level off with current tenth and eleventh graders. However, class sizes do not increase until we look at current fourth and .fifth graders. The second reason is that once our tuition, room and board costs reached over $21,000, students wonder if it is worth going to a private school. \The cost difference has influenced students to choose other colleges,\ explains Ms. Fleming. The fact that Money Magazine has placed SUNY schools in their top ten \best buys\ for a college education have made it harder for Union to attract students. What will Union do to attract more students? President Hull has addressed this problem in a meeting with the Admissions Office. According to Ms. Fleming, Hull wants to recruit international students, to attract students from middle income families, to give alumni a larger role in the admissions process, and to increase Faculty involvement. To do this, Ms. Fleming says that the Admissions Office will increase personal contact with applicants by sending alumni to college fairs, give our Student Ambassadors a larger role, and admit a few more students. However, Ms. Fleming points out that Union will not lower its standards for accepting students. In This Issue: Career Festival page 4 Introduction to \Romero\ page 15 Men's Rugby Defeats Hamilton page 21

Vol. CXX, No. 2 New Peer Facilitator Program Reaches Out To Freshmen By TOM ANDRUCHOW Associate News Editor Last spring a committee of seven students and seven faculty met to look at problems in male/female relationships here at Union. The committee especially examined acquaintance rape. This committee recommended creating a Peer Facilitator program similar to one already in place at RPI. After an intense selection process, eight students, four males and four females, were chosen to be Union's first Peer Facilitators. Director of the Career Development Center Joanne Peer Facilitators are not experts, but talkers who try to get students to be 10ore open than they would be with staff. Tobiessen and Assistant Psychology professor Kenneth DeBono will coordinate the program. The program intends to look into how popular stereotypes, expectations, and misconceptions lead to difficulties in male/female relationships and how they impact acquaintance rape. The Peer Facilitators will focus, especially among freshmen, on raising general awareness of acquaintance rape, resources available if it occurs, and options of behavior to prevent it. Peer Facilitators are not experts but rather they are talkers. Their aim is to get People need to realize that acquaintance rape is illegal. students to be more candid about acquaintance rape than they would be in 'discussion with adult or staff counselors. An emphasis was placed on learning to work together as strategies for presenting workshops were practiced. They were instructed on how to stimulate openness by students in discussion. Additionally, they were given pertinent information about New York State law and the Student Conduct Code and also background information about rape, stereotypes, expectations in peer relationships. During orientation 16 workshops were given to an estimated 90% of the freshman class. A video tape from the Continued on page 3 Women's Field Hockey beat Vassar 1-0 last Saturday. Kristin Neilbergs scored 1he only goal with 23 minutes left in the second half. Schenectady, New York October 4, 1990 Middle States Report Released Recommends All College-Owned Housing Go Co-Ed By JAY FREELAND News Editor Last week the Middle States report for Union College was released. A self-evaluation of various components of the College, this report was written in six sections by six different committees. Each committee was comprised of four or five faculty and administrators and one or two students. Yesterday, administrators, faculty, and the president of Student Forum met with Dr. Gary J. Sojka, current President of Bucknell University and Chairman of the Middle States Evaluation Team. The team will be visiting Union from December 2-5. The section which may cause the most controversy on the campus is the section on the freshman year and residence life. Within this section. the first recommendation listed states \all college owned housing, including that now occupied by Greeks, be made co-educational and available to all students.\ The reasons listed for this recommendation include: an increase in college· owned housing from 63% to 100%; equal prime housing space for both sexes and all students; and a stimulation of and integrati<Jn of intellectual life in the residential system. The committee did recommend that President Hull appoint a commission to look into the matter. The section on diversity lists several changes needed at the College. After a thorough search and survey, the committee recommended three Continued on page 3 FRESHMAN STATISTICS 54o/o 29% 7o/o 8% 2o/o From New York State From New England From Middle Atlantic States From Remaining States International 49.7o/o 28o/o 28°/o Graduated in Top 20o/o of Class Graduated in Top 10% of Class Were Unranked 67o/o Subm,itted SAT Scores (75o/o of last year's class submitted SAT Scores) 447 Members in Class 57o/o Male 43°/o Female Union Enrollment Decreases By MATT LANNI Associate News Editor This year's freshman class is considerably smaller than in previous years. The Admissions Office hoped that this year's class would be 500, but the latest count is at 447. According to Ann Fleming, Assistant Dean of Admissions, this is due to a nation wide decrease in applicants for small liberal arts colleges like Union. Union suffered a 9% de.crease in its application pool, and a 15% decrease in enrollment this year. Ms. Fleming believes that that there are two major reasons for these decreases. First, the number of students in graduating classes are decreasing, but level off with current tenth and eleventh graders. However, class sizes do not increase until we look at current fourth and fifth graders. The second reason is that once our tuition, room and board costs reached over $21,000, students wonder if it is worth going to a private school. \The cost difference has influenced students to choose other colleges,\ explains Ms. Fleming. The fact that Money Magazine has placed SUNY schools in their top ten \best buys\ for a coUegc education have made it harder for Union to attract students. What will Union do to attract more studcn ts? President Hu 11 has addresse-d this problem in a meeting with the Admission~ Office. According to Ms. Fleming, Hull wants to recruit international studenb, to attn.ll't students from rniJJk income families, to give alumni a larger role ill the admissions process, and to increase Faculty involvement. To do this. Ms. Fleming says that the Admissions Office wi II increase personal contact with applicants by sending alumni to college fairs, give our Student Ambassadors a larger role, and admit a few more students. However, Ms. Fleming points out that Union will not lower its standards for accepting studenLc;;. In This Issue: Career Festival page 4 Introduction to \Romero\ page 15 Men's Rugby Defeats Hamilton page 21

Page ·2 ·-·coNCORDIENSIS, ·October 4, 1990 alnttntrbirnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Bush's Lucky State Of The World By DAVID WEISSMAN The patterns of modern history show that the president's popularity rests on his decisions of foreign policy rather than those of domestic. Ironically, the state of the world has benefitted President Bush by making him one of the more popular presidents. According to recent polls, Bush's decisions regarding Colombia, Panama, and Iraq have been overwhelmingly supported by the American public. To say the least, Bush is a true politician. His presidential strategy has been to accentuate the positive and cancel the negative. His most succes:>ful method of manipulating public opinion is in his use of the \rally around the flag\ effect. Fortunately, he has had the international events to make his program work. For instance, Bush's \drug war\ was a fail-safe policy. By touching upon an inherent moral, American value, he claimed victory in a game with no visible opponents. From the onset of his Presidency, Bush has been warned repeatedly of an oncoming recession. His efforts to mobilize public support for the drug war have really been more of an effort to mask the failing economy. In a May 1989 Gallu}> Poll, people were asked what they believed was the most important problem facing the nation. The result was that 34% felt it was .. economy and 27% felt it was drugs. After Bush's National Drug Control Strategy Speech (or the rally around the Flay/camouflage the problem speech) on September 5, 1989, the same question was asked by the Gal:lup Polls and the result was drugs 63% and the economy 16%. Through manipulative rhetoric, the Bush administration has successfully completed its objective. His speech was an attempt to divert public scrutiny of the economy on to the drug problem, therefore reducing the threat on his popularity and image as an effective President. The Panama invasion was a continuation of the drug war effort. Noriega was aiding drug trafficking and had hampered the democratic process. Therefore, Bush sent in troops using the same moral and unopposed grouBds as he did with bis drug war efforts. The result was that the invasion was successful, but not as profitable as the rewards were for Bush's popularity. The President's knowledge, previous to implementation, that the invasion would be supported by the American public made the Panama \event\ more of an attempt to gain popularity rather than an urgent neecl to protect American interests. The result was just as Bush had wanted: to come out of Panama looking strong and effective. But what else could have resulted? Were our dominant forces .going to lose to a drug lords's military when the majority of the Panamanian people were on our side? The obvious answer was no and Mr. Bush took full opportunity of this one-sided situation. Then early in tile year, the S & L crisis became uncovered pushing the state of the economy back .to the forefront of the political agenda. Bush's popularity started to diminish. The truths . of the Savings and Loan industry, that were covered up during the Reagan Administration., could no longer be shielded from the taxpayers. Some politicans' main contributors to campaign finance were those financial institutions in the form of Political Action Committees (P ACs). Naturally, this industry received some large favors from politicians to cover up their failures. But just as the S & L crisis heated up under media sc:mtiny, Iraq so timely invaded Kuwait. Not that the blame of the S & L crisis should be placed on Bush, but now it is not addressed at the top ·Of the political agenda. The fact that the ·S & L failures will cost each taxpayer approximately $2,500-$5,000 to correct has been overshadowed by a huge U.S. military presence in the Middle East. Bush has been effective in his foreign policy, thanks to the availability of world events adverse to U.S. interests, bpt he remains too status-quo on domestics. If you can remember his inauguration speech in January 1989, he pledge to become the \education president.\ But thanks to the profound changes in the world, President Bush_ will not have to play that unwanted role. He has accumulated public support mainly through his strong foreign policy, and Bush is also guaranteed that he wi11 be elected for a second term because what democrat, in his right mind, would want to inherit the U.S. in its current economic state. So, basically Mr. President, you have Pablo Escobar, Manuel Noreiga, and Saddam Hussein to thank for making you look good, but for your second term, try harder to better our America here at home. Gulf Crisis At Boiling Point By JIM POLITES The United States has received the bulk of global attention and applause for a quick response and active stance in the Middle East crisis. Unfortunately, President Bush realizes that the dilemma Sadam Hussein poses is much too broad for American forces to eradicate alone. A struggle between two countries so distant involves both unyielding vocal support at home and tremendous financial investment tapped from numerous sources. The deployment and maintenace of military units in Saudi Arabia boasts astronomical costs that skyrocket further into the billions with every passing day. Tranportation to the Gulf region, food, water, protective gear, and ammunition, all combine to make up the most expensive military exercise in our country's long history. A price many believe too steep to pay for a war fought over oil and a toppled sheikdom. Exhibiting both candor and practicality, the chief executive has asked for additional backing from other nations--and not just salutary word of encouragement. Egypt, for example, has offered help in the form of sending armed troops to fortify the multinational forces protecting the Saudi/Iraqi border. Their close proximity to the region of unrest alleviates some of the manpower strains on the U.S., while adding to the feeling of claustrophobia Saddam might be experiencing in his arduous and solitary quest to challenge the world. In return. the United States has freed Egypt of the seven billion dollar debt they owe-- proof positive that the government is eager to reward those who provide assistance and believe in our involvement. The case of Japan, on the other hand, and its much publicized ambivalence thus far toward the Middle East crisis is a more complex issue. Since World War II, Japan's economy has experienced an amazingly rapid growth and expansion that is unprecedented throughout the world and second only to the United States today. Their land is small and resource poor, though. causing Japan to import 99 percent of the oil they use. Realizing now that Iraq's conquest of Kuwait means even more bargaining power for Hussein in terms of fuel prices, the Japanese are rightfully timid of making any rash diplomatic decisions. Japan is caught in the middle of a brutal tug-of-war between two countries refusing to submit. For different reasons , each looks to the Japanese for support as they have the financial assets to greatly influence the s1ruggle. Japan's constitution contains a no-war clause tllat forbids any type of active participation in battle. So called Self-Defense Forces are the country's military eq11ivalent, but the role of those sent from the island nation to repel Saddam would be placed in non- aggressive medical and administrative positions. Recently. Ja]Jan has turned its back on H11ssein and his oil cartel to join an ever growing team of U.S. led nations. Some 5 billion dollars has This Sunday, October 7, at 6:30p.m. Tune in to WRUC, 89.7 FM Not to Win McMillions, but to listen to and debate about these topics, on the AIR: To be discussed: GERMAN RE-UNIFICATION THE MIDDLE EAST ANTI-SEMITISM IN AMERICA on Union's Brand New Talk Show \NEWS FORUM'~ with special Guest Prof. Stephen Berk been given to foment operations in the Gulf, which especially by Japanese standards is a paramount political statement. The Japanese government has in effect rolled the dice in regard to the crisis. Through their initial fence-sitting, they have obviously watched U.S. support stockpile in the past month and have joined in the popular movement. At the same time, Japan has finally proven to the world that it can take a position on difficult diplomatic affairs. The Japanese now have much more to lose than they could ever hope to gain in the Middle East, for if Iraq somehow prevails, their country will be decimated For now, though,- Japan's voice has been heard throughout the world. Whether it is loud and strong enough to make a difference is simply a matter of time. The Economics Club Invites You To Volunteer For Junior Achievement Information Session Wednesday, Oct. 10 3:30 P.M. SS 103 Refershments will be seiVed

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 <Ultnrorbirttsis NEWS ANALYSIS Bush's Lucky State Of The World By DAVID WEISSMAN The patterns of modern history show that the president's popularity rests on his decisions of foreign policy rather than those of domestic. Ironically, the state of the world has benefitted President Bush by making him one of the more popular presidents. According to recent polls, Bush's decisions regarding Colombia, Panama, and Iraq have been overwhelmingly supported by the American public. To say the least, Bush is a tru~ politician. His presidential strategy has been to accentuate the positive and cancel the negative. His most s u c c e s ·.; f u I m e t h o d o f manipulating public opinion is in his use C>f the \rally around the flag\ effect. Fortunately, he has had ttle international events to make his program work. For instance, Bush's \drug war\ was a fai 1-safe policy. By touching upon an inherent moral, American value, he claimed victo1y in a game with no visible opponents. From tl1e onset of his Presidency, Bush has been warned repeatedly of an oncoming recession. His efforts to mobilize public support for the drug war have really bcefl more of an effort to mask the failing economy. In a May 19&9 Gallup Poll, poople were asked what they believed was the most important problem facing the nation. The result was that 34% felt it was economy and 27% felt it was drugs. After Bush's National Drug Control Strategy Speech (or the rally around the Flay /camouflage the problem speech) on September 5, 1989, the same question was asked by the Gallup Polls and the result was drugs 63% and the economy 16%. Through manipulative rhetoric, the Bush administration has successfully completed its objective. His speech was an attempt to divert public scrutiny of the economy on to the drug problem, therefore reducing the threat on his popularity an.d image as an effective President. The Panama invasion was a continuation of the drug war effort. Noriega was aiding drug trafficking and had hampered the democratic process. Therefore, Bush sent in troops using the same moral and unopposed grounds as he did with his drug war efforts. The result was that the invasion was successful, but not as profitable as the rewards were for Bush's popularity. The President's knowledge, previous to implementation, that the invasion would be supported by the American public made the Panama \event\ more of an attempt to gain popularity rather than an urgent need to protect American interests. The result was just as Basil had wanted: to come out of Panama looking strong and effective. But what else could h.ave resulted? Were our dominant forces going to lose to a drug lords's military when the majority of the Panamanian people were on ow side? The obvious answer was no and Mr. Bush took ftLll opportunity of this one-sided situation. Then early in the year, the S & L crisis became uncovered pushing the state of the economy back to the forefront of the political agenda. Bush's popularity started to diminish. The truths of the Savings and Loan industry, that were covered up during the Reagan Administration, could no longer be shielded from the taxpayers. Some politicans' main contributors to campaign finance were those financial institutions in the form of Political Action Committees (PACs). Naturally, this industry received some large favors from politicians to cover up their failures. But just as the S & L crisis lleated up under media scruliny, Iraq so timely invaded Kllwait. Not that the blame of the S & L crisis should be placed on Bush, but now 1t is not addressed at the top of the politicai agenda. The fact that the S & L failures wiU cost each taxpayer approximately $2,500-$5;000 to COITeCt has been overshadowed by a huge U.S. military presence in the Middle East. Bush has been effective in his foreign policy, thanks to the availability of world events adverse to U.S. interests, but he remains too status-quo on domestics. If you can remember his inauguration speech in January 1989, he pledge to become the \education president.\ But thanks to the profound changes in the world, President Bush will not have to play that unwanted role. He has accumulated public support mainly tnrough his strong foreign policy, and Bush is also guaranteed that he will be elected for a second term because what democrat, in his right mind, would want to inherit the U.S. in its current economic state. So, basically Mr. President, you have Pablo Escobar, Manuel Noreiga, and Saddam Hussein to thank for making you look good, but for your second term, try harder to better our America here at home. Gulf Crisis At Boiling Point By JIM POLITES The United States has received the bulk of global attention and applause for a quick response and active stance in the Middle East crisis. Unfortunately, President Bush realizes that the dilemma Sadam Hussein poses is much too broad for American forces to eradicate alone. A struggle between two countries so distant involves both unyielding vocal support at horne and tremendous financial investment tapped from numerous sources. The deployment and maintcnace of military units in Saudi Arabia boasts astronomical costs that skyrocket further into the billions with every passing day. Tranportation to the Gulf region, food, water, protective gear. and ammunttiOn, a11 combine tC> make up the most cxpcnsi-..·e military exercise in our coll.ntry's long history. A price rnally believe too steep to pay for a V>ar fought over oil and a toppled sheikdom. Exhibiling both candor and practicaJity .. the chief executive has asked for additional backing from otl1er nations--and not just salutary word of encouragement. EgyJ>t, for example, has offered help in the form of sending a.rrned troops to fortify the multinational forces protecting the Saudi/Iraqi border. Their close proximity to the region of unrest alleviates some of trr~ manpower strains on the U.S., while adding to the feeli11g of claustrophobia Saddam might be experiencing; in his ardtLous and solitary quest to challenge the world. In return, the United States has freed Egypt of the seven billion dollar debt they owe-- proof positive that the government is eager to reward those who provide assistance and believe in our involvement. The case of Japan, on the other hand, and its much publicized ambivalence thus far toward the Middle East crisis is a more complex issue. Since World War II, Japan's economy has experienced an amazingly rapid growth and expansion that is unprecedented throughout the world and second only to the United States today. Their land is small and resource poor. though, causing Japan to import 99 percent of the oil they use. Realizing now that Iraq's conquest of Kuwait means even more bargaining power for Hussein in terms of fuel prices, the Japanese are rightfully timid of making any rash diplomatic decisions. Japan is caught in the middle of a brutal tug-of-war between two countries refusing to submit. For different reasons , each looks to the Japanese for support as they have the financial assets to greatly influence the struggle. Japan's constitution contains a no-war clause that forbids any type of active participation in battle. So called Self-Defense Forces are the country's military equivalent, but the role of those sent from the island nation to repel Saddam would be placecl in non- aggressive medical and administrative p<lsitions. Recently, J apail llas turned its back on Hussein and his oil cartel to join at1 ever growing team of U.S. led nations. Some 5 billion dollars has This Sunday, October 7, at 6:30p.m. Tune in to WRUC, 89.7 FM Not to w;n McMilfions, but to listen to and debate about these topics, on the AIR: To be discussed: GERMAN RE-UNIFICATION THE MIDDLE EAST ANTI-SEMITISM IN AMERICA on Union's Brand New Talk Show •'NEWS FORUM'~ with special Guest Prof. Stephen Berk been given to foment operations in the Gulf, which especially by Japanese standards is a paramount political statement. The Japanese government has in effect rolled the dice in regard to the crisis. Through their initial fence-sitting, they have obviously watched U.S. support stockpile in the past month and have joined in the popular movement. At the same time. Japan has finally proven to the world that it can take a position on difficult diplomatic affairs. The Japanese now have much more to lose than they could ever hope to gain in the Middle East. for if Iraq somehow prevails. their country will be decimated. For now, though. Japan's voice has been heard throughout the world. Whether it is loud and strong enough to make a difference is simply a matter of time. The Econ()mics Club Invites Y ()tl To Volunteer For Ju11ior Achievement Information Session Wednesday, Oct. 10 3:30 P.M. SS 103 Refershments will be served

I I 'i , Student Form Peer Facilitators Received Positively Spotlight Continued from page 1 Rape Crisis Center was shown and the Peer Facilitators lead discussion. There was much verbal participation by the people who attended these which helped to create an informal atmosphere suitable to facilitate discussion. With two meetings under its belt this term, the Union College Student Forum is ready to go \on the road\. Next · week's meeting will be held at Hickock Dormitory to begin discussing the problems and concerns of the freshmen who have been forced to live up- campus this year. Look for signs on campus indicating the · time and day. Also on top of the Forum list is the Middle States Report released last week. All Forum · members expressed concern over a recommendation in the report requesting that all college-owned housing be made co-ed. Copies of the report were distributed throughout the Forum this week. Student Forum president, Jay Freeland, met with the president of the Middle Stales evaluation team and other members of the Union faculty and administration on Wednesday. The Forum will hold an in- depth discussion next week on all sections of the report, and conclusions and recommendations will be made. Basic business logistics were taken care of during the first two meetings including committee appointments, and final preparations for the Student Forum retreat at Camp Chingachgook, Lake George. If all goes well with the trip, Lee Bloomrosen, Director of the College Center, hopes to begin an Outwru ds Bound Program here at Union. Several clubs have appealed to the Forum for increased funding to their original budgets. As of yet, no decisions have been made. Additionally, a handful of new clubs have petitioned for. Forum recognition and will be notified within the next week. Any clubs wishing to appeal to the Forum for additional funds should first see Sue Porell with I their budgets. Groups desiring Forum recognition should bring their constitutions to Nina Smilari. If neither of these Forum officers can be reached, see Mrs. Marra in the Student t\.ctivities Office, College Center-- 4th floor. Finally, the Forum will make petitions available for freshman representative positions and the remaining junior class position at the Activities Fair today. The fair will run from 1-4 p.m., and will be located outside the College Center. The Forum encourages any freshman or • 1 junior interested in running for office, to visit the Student Forum booth at the exposition. Although the Peer Facilitators program has concentrated :primarily on the freshman, they will soon be available to put on workshops for upperclassmen. Various groups have invited them to put on workshops. Besides acquaintance rape, workshops will be held about sex roles and their impact on social interaction. So far, the results have been positive. S orne Resident Advisors have commented that these workshops have gotten students to talk about these issues more frequently and more candidly. Many students feel that making people more alert helps peers to take care of one another and that peer . reinforcement aids in the 1 prevention of acquaintance rape. The biggest challenge for the program to tackle is the double standard for sexual behavior. people n~ed to realize that acquaintance rape is illegal. Beyond the legal ramifications, the program seeks to communicate to students that this is an issue of mutual respect and civility. WHO IS AVAILABLE FOR HELP AT UNION COLLEGE? The following people are available for support, infonnation, and referral. All conversations are confidential. · 9123/90 9/25190 9/25/90 9/25/90 9/26/90 9126/90 9127/90 9/27/90 9127/'#1 9128/90 9128/90 9128/90 9128/90 912B/90 gmm All Residential Advisors Residential Life Dave Wood, Associate Dean - Ext. 6117 Dawn Discanza, Area Coordinator - Ext 6684 Mike Muller, Area Coordinator - Ext. 6482 Mary Ellen Wogan, Area Coordinator- Ext. 6486 Dean of Students Office Joseph L. Mammola, Dean of Students - Ext. 6116 Joanne Tobiessen, Assistant Dean/Director Career Development Center - Ext. 6176 Fred Alford, Assistant Dean':' Ext. 6061 Trish Williams, .Assistant Dean- Ext. 6061 College Counseling Center Don Spring, Director- Ext 6161 College Health Service Sandy Mosher, Director- Ext. 6121 Campus Safety Paul Mantica, Director - Ext. 6358 Emergency Phone Numbers Campus Safety - Ext. 6911 Schenectady Police- 374-7744 Reported Security Incidents UEST co\.LESE lfiOK£11 WIMIIOUS AT IWRTH ENTRANCE DOORS CAI!PUS STUDENT ~PIJQTS VANDAllSH TO HIS VEHICLE RICHNDND ClllLEGE !~~DESIRABLE J£111ED ENTRY, VARNED orr CAMPUS rox HOUSE NOll RESIDENT ATTE/IPTED TO 6AIN ACCESS TO RESIDENCE IIALL IIOTT liEnDRIAL VAHOALISII TO WH£ FOil DAY! DSDN LOT lltlTOR VEHICLE ACCIDENT FOI HOUSE ~KEN ROON VI NOOW NORTH COLLEGE ~DESIRABLES TRYING TO GIIIN ENTRY TD NORTH COLLEGE WEST COLLEGE ID REPORTED KISSING UEST COLLEGE Stlt.ICITORS IN BUILDING - UNAUTHORIZED COllEGE CENTER TllErT OF STUOENT PROPERTY RICHKOND COLLEGE MIHOYANCEG PHOII£ CALLS REPORTED ACHILLES LOT STUDENT RE~~TS VANOALISH TO HIS CAR ACHILLES RINK STAfF REPORTED CANDV STIH.EN BY OfF CA\PUS YOUTHS DAVIDSON HOUSE VAHDALISII TO 8ATHROOH SINK AND FACILITIES College Mourns Loss Of Esteemed Economics Professor By ELISE FOOD¥ the teaching field.. Editor-in-Chief Phaup came to Union in 1972 and served as Chair of the Friends and coll~gues were Economics Department from both shocked and saddened to~ 1981 to 19&5. He earned a learn last Thursday morning of B.A. in 1968 from Roanoke the death of Union College College and a P~.D. i.n 1974 Prof. of Economics E. Dwight from the UnJ.verstty of Professor Phaup at home in the classroom. Phaup. Phaup, who was Virginia. In 1986, he was recovering from complications named Chau11cey H. Winters of pneumonia. was stricken at Professor 9f Economic horne, the victim of an Thought, a distinguished apparent heart attack. faculty chai.r. His research efforts were C()ncentrated in Professor Phaup was internationa:J economics, anticipating retuming to Union international business finance this fall after a <me-year leave and monetary economics. of absence du.ring which time In addition to serving as he serveJ as Director of Chair of tile Department, Planning and Economic Phaup engaged. in several other Analysis at the State . Department in Washington, college-related activities dunng DC. His responsibilities his 17 -year stay at Union. Among these a.ctivities were included initiating policy Chair of the Academic Affairs studies and reccrnrnendations as Council from 1982-84 and well as providing economic advisor for the Economics advice to the State Department. National Hono:r Society, as Members of the College's well as a member of over 15 Ecomonics Department agreed different committees. that Phaup \Vas looking A memorial service for forward to getting back to Phaup was held Thursday teaching and was eager to begin evening at Jones Funeral Home the school year. Earlier this in Schen~ctady. Funeral summer, Phaup mentioned the 1 arrangements took place strong value lie placed on the Sunday in Virginia. The knowledge he acquired while in College has plmne<l a memorial WashingtOn, but alsc expressed service for Friday, October 12 excitement about returning to at 4 p.m. in Memorial Chapel Middle States Recommendations Go To SAC and AAC which might \de-brief' students as they retwn to the College and serve as \re-entry vehicles.\ .e 0 .c: a. ~ u:: Continued fr()m page 1 major changes. First, the College shouJd broaden its minority student recruitment efforts. The report states that too many African-American students are currently recruited from inner-city schools and that the minority population on campus should. represent the minority population at large. Also recommended was a continued effort by the school to recruit students from more distant states, and the institution of more foreign exchange pr<>grams with foreign universities as an inexpensive way of bringing more international students to Union. The section on curriculum places a large emphasis on the General Ed.ucation program. After analyzing pros and cons of the progf~rn~ the committee recommends that the transcripts for members of the classes of '93, '94, and ·~5 be compared with those from the classes of '90, '91, an<! '92 to see if the Gen-Ed program is accomp- lishing the g()als it seeks. They also recommend a survey five years later f()r these classes to see if attitudes have been altered as a result of Gen-Ed. The committee for energizing and challenging students recommends that research opportunities and other \hands on\ ex.periences be continued and expanded for students. Other proposed changes weald create smaller upper-level collrses and add more cohesiveness and greater supervision to the Freshman Preceptorial. The intemational programs group recommends more programs that would allow students in stricter majors such as engineering, the opportunity to go abroad. They also suggest creating a few courses The graduate and continuing studies s.ection analyzes graduate and undergraduate programs. a11d makes recom- mendations towards both. Most important, 11ccording to the committee, are l>etter and more meaningful communication, periodic reviews of all programs, the adoption of standardi2ed evaluation procedures and criteria for admission to the GSC programs, a11d the introduction of new programs. All secti()ns of the Middle States report will be reviewed by the Student Forum, as well as the Student Affairs Committee :and the Academic Affairs Council.

'CONCORDIENSIS; Ocwliir 4, 1990 Student Form Peer Facilitators Received Positively Spotlight Continued from page 1 Rape Crisis Center was shown and the Peer Facilitators lead discussion. There was much verbal participation by the people who attended these which helped to create an informal atmosphere suitable to facilitate discussion. Witll two meetings under its belt this term, the Union Coll1~ge Student Forum is ready to go \on the road\. Next week's meeting will be held at Hickock Dormitory to begin discussing the problems and concerns of the freshmen who have been forc~d to live up- campus this year. Look for signs on campus indicating the time and day. Also on top of the Forum list is the Middle States Report released last week. All Forum · members expressed concern over a recommendation in the report requesting that all college-owned housing be made co-ed. Copies of the report were distributed thmughout the Forum this week. Student Forum president, Jay Freeland, met with the president of the Middle States evaluation team and other members of the Union faculty and administration on Wednesday. The Forum will hold an in- depth discussion next week on all sections of the report, and conclusions and recommendations will be made. Basic business logistics were taken care of during the first two meetings including committee appointments. and final preparations fm the Student FDrum retreat at Camp Chingachgook, Lak:.e George. It all goes well with the trip, Lee Blo01nrosen, Director of the College Center, haJJes to begin an Outwru ds BouiJd Program here at Union. Several clubs lulve appealed to the Forum for increased fuading to their uriginal budgets. As of yet, ao decisions have been made. Additionally, a handful of new clubs have petitioned for Forum recogniticn and will be notified within the next week. Any clubs wishing to appeal to the Forum for additional funds should first see Sue :Porell with 1 their budgets. Gr()ups desiring Fcrum recogniti()n should · bring their constitutions to Nina Smilari. If 11either of these Forum officers can be reached, see Mrs. Marra in the Student .<\ctivities Office, College Center-- 4-tll floor. Finally, the Forum will make petitions available for freshman representative pusitions and the remaining junior class position at the Activities Fair today. The fair will run from 1-4 p.m., and will be located ()Utside the College Center. Th.e Forum encourages any freshman or l junior interested in running for j j office, to visit the Student! j Forum booth at the exposition. 1 Although the Peer Facilitators program has concentrated primarily on the freshman, they will soon be available to put on workshops for upperclassmen. Various groups have invited them to put on workshops. Besides acquaintance rape, workshops will be held about sex roles and their impact on social interaction. So far, the results have been pos1t1ve. Some Resident Advisors have commented that these workshops have gotten students to talk about these issues more frequently and more candidly. Many students feel that making people more alert helps peers to take care of one another and that peer reinforcement aids in the prevention of acquaintance rape. The biggest challenge for the program to tackle is the double standard for sexual behavior. people need to realize that acquaintance rape is illegal. RC'yond the k gal ramification-;. tflt\ i'!\C'LTf~Hll ~C~k..; 10 \.·PnlnHHilra!:.:: t\~ \i'udcnt~ 1hal thi-..: 1\' ~HI 1'-\~lC 11! r:.-\\r~.~ ~·:n ~ ;_i\1:'\v. o/VHO IS AVAIL ABLE FOR HELJP AT LNJO\\, COLLEGE'? The following people are available for support. information. :md rcf:.'rral. All conversation' arc confidential. 9/23/9~ 9/~m 9ml9~ 9125/90 9/26/90 9126190 9/27190 9127190 9121190 9!29/90 9128190 912Bm 9128190 9!28190 91291'10 All Reside ntl:ial Advisors Residentl:ial Life Dave Wood, Associate Dean -Ext. 6117 Dawn Discanza, Area Coordinator - ExL 6684 Mike Mulier, Area Cl()ordinator- Ext. 6482 Mary Ellen Wogan, Area Coordinator- Ext. 6486 Dean of Stullents Office Joseph L. Mammola, Dem of Students- Ext. 6116 Joanne Tobiessen, Assistant Dean/Director Career Development Center - Ext. 6176 Fred Alford, Assistant Dean 7 Ext. 6061 Trish Williams, Assistant Dean- Ext. 6061 College Cou11seling Center Don Spring, Director - Ext 6161 College Hea ltl1 Service Sandy Mosher, Director- Ext. 6121 CampliS Safety Paul Mantica, l)irector - Ext. 6358 Emergency Phone Numbers Campus Saf.ety -Ext. 6911 Schenectady Police - 374-7744 Reported Security Incidents II£ST t:OLLESE C~PUS Rl ClllffiliD tDLLEG£ fOI HOOSE IKJTT liEHORiill fOX/DAVIDSON lOT fOI HOUSE IIOIH H COLLE 6£ !lEST COLLEGE WEST COLLEGE COt.lE6E CfHTER Rl CHIIOND COLLEGE ACHILLES LOT AC1HlLES Rl NK DAVIDSON HOUSE llillt:EN WINOOVS AT NORTH ENTI~ANC:E DOI!RS STUDENT I!EPIJITS YANDALISM 11) Hr S lii:UCLE ~DESIRABLE KillED ENTRY, WARNED OfF CA~PUS MOH RESIDENT ATTEIIPTED TO GAIN ACCESS TO RESIDENCE Ht1LL Y~DALISn TO CRANE IIOTOR I'EHICLE ACCIDENT atOKEN ROOK WINDOW ~J)£SJRABLES TRYING TO GAIN £»TRY TO NORTH COLLEGE I 0 REPOR TEO \ISSIHG !rollC!TORS Tk BUILDING - UIUIUTiiOR liED Tl!ErT Of STUQENT PROPERTY !OjlffiYilNCE6 Pll()IE CALLS REPO!ll£!!1 5TUOEHT WOn VAHDALIS~ TO HIS (AI? STI\H REPORlE~ CANOY SJ[)LEN BY Off CANPUS YOUTHS ~ij~DAL!~ TO SATHROOH SINK IIi& fA.llliTIES J~y ....... x4153 Maft ..•• x6957 lrcar~~ •••••• ac~l~l' College Mourns Loss Of Esteemed Economics Professor By ELISE FOODY Editor-in-Chief Friends and colleagues were beth shocked and saddened to learn last Thursday morning of the death of Union College, Prof. of Economics E. Dwight ' IY ·.: the teaching field. Phaup came to l:nion 1n 1972 and served as Chair of tht· Economics Department from 1981 to 19RS. He C'arn(?d a B.A. in 1968 from Roanoke College and a Ph.D. in 1974 from the University of g 0 .c CL ~ ll.. Professor Phaup at home in the classroom. Phaup. Phaup, who was recovering from complications of pneumonia, was stricken at home, the victim of an apparent heart attack. Professor Phaup was anticipating returning to Union this fall after a one-year leave of absence during which time he serveJ as Director of Planning and Economic Analysis at the State Department in Washington, 1 DC. His responsibilities inc! uded initiating policy studies and recommendations as well as providing economic . · advice to the State Department. Members of the College's Ecornon ic-; Department agreed th3! Ph a up ·xa-; looki n!! fonv,iLi 1t1 ;c·ttin,c r-.1~ K :!' Virginia. In 1986, he was named Chauncey H. Winters Professor of Economic Thought, a distinguished faculty chair. His research efforts were concentrated in international economics, international business finance and monetary economics. In addition to serving as Chair of the Department, Phaup engaged in several other college-related activities during his 17-year stay at Union. Among these activities were Chair of the Academic A ffe1i rs Council from 19H2-g4 ;.md advisor for tht' Economic' ~ational Honor Socit'l). a~ well a~ a mernoa of P\('r I\ cllill'f~'Tl[ ~'0fl1llllth'L''. :\ n!l'Ol(\lial \''r\1( ',lr Ph~ u n \ 1 * ~t, ~ i v: (_j ·r h ; : r .. d, l \ ' . t.l' ;..:tm10: ami \'. :h 1-'<ll.'<::c i< • bq.:m th..: <.:twoi :-(c!L E.t:ll,'r 1hi' .;umm~.-r. Ph:.~up nK·nw;n,·d 1.h<..' .:;tron~ '/~_due' he ;Jia\:t'J on lhc !cw>-,kdgc he .lU.JUtn:d \\:hil(· •n wa,hington. but ai.;o exprt:'\l'd ~XClterncnt about returning to :irr.Jf1~l\c1lli.'Hi.'' Li.)t:·~ ... I S J n d .t y .J1 \ · · r •: n1 u 1 : i', , · j c~~!l::..:-.' ha' rlanrwd :t rnv:rl•ltd j :o;crviu: ll1r Fnd:l\ ( /,'lOP•.:; · 2 1 J.l ~ p.m. in \kmnrt.ll Ch~1;'~d ~¥Iiddle §tates Recommendations Go To SAC and AAC Con.tinued from page 1 major changes. First, the College should broaden its minority student recruitment efforts. The report states that too many African-American students are currently recruited from inner-city schools and that the minority population on campus should represent the minority population at large. Alsu recommended was a continued effort by the school to recruit students from more distant states, and the institution of more foreign exchange programs with foreign universities as an inexpensive way of bringing more international students to Union. Th.e committee for energizing and challenging students recommends that research opportunities and other \hands on\ experiences be cuminued and expanded for students. Other proposed changes would create smaller upper-level courses and add more cohesiveness and greater supervision to the Freshman Preceptorial. The international programs group recommends more programs that would allow students in stricter majors such as engineering, the opportunity to go abroad. They also suggest creating a few courses which might \de-brief' studmL-; as they return to the College and serve as \re-entry veh iclcs ... The section on curriculum places a large emphasis on the General Education pro gram. After analyzing pros and cons of the program, the committee recommends that the transcripts for members of the classes of '93, '94, and '95 be compared with those from the classes of '90, '91, and '92 to see if the Gen-Ed program is accomp- lishing the goals it seeks. They also recommend a survey five years later for these classes to see if attitudes have been altered as a result of Gen-Ed. The graduate and continuing studies section ane1l yzcs graduate and undergraduate' programs, and makes recom- mendations towards both. l\lo<.;t important. according to the committee, are better and more meaningful communication, periodic revtews of all programs, the adoptinn of standardi1ed evaluation procedures and criteria for admission to tht' G SC' programs, and the intrndurttl)ll of new programs. All sections nf the ~tiddll' States report will he rnit'\\ed hy the Student FPrum. a~ well as the Student Afl<ttr\ Com m i ttt'l' and the .·\~.~ .td,· m 11.' Affair\ CnurKtl

, •• :1;,)(.:'! Page 4 \~j£-q,_ ,,\. ;._.~,,,_,; .. ) .:.-~ ... _;11\:-~i.,l 1..!.1,,.,:~ ·~\~ _l CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Union College Career Fe,stival The twelfth annual Union College Career Festival, which. will be held in the Field House on Wednesday, Octoer 10, 1990, from 12:00-4:00 PM, will provide a uniqu.·e and valuable opportunity for ALL students to discuss career options with corporate recruiters and representatives from community service fields and graduate schools. The informal atmosphere of the festival facilitates discussion between students and professionals to provide specific company information or general career direction. Make contacts and conduct informational interviews with representativs from Peace Corps, IBM, Upjohn, Norstar Bank, GE, Pepsi Cola, Aetna Life and Casualty, and tb.e CIA. These are among several of the over 45 firms attending. Going to graduate or professional school? Come meet representatives from law, medical, business, and engineering programs, such as Albany Law School, Dartmouth Medical School, Northeastern University MBA Probram, SUNY -Albany School of Public Health, and University of Rochester- Public Policy Analysis Pre _gram. General graduate :pro g:rams will also be reJJresented.. lnt<~rested in community service involvement? :Repfesentatives will be there :from Oswald D. Heck, Mollawk Pathways Girl Scout C()Uflldl~ the American Red Cl'()SS, and other community service organizations to discuss ways in which you can become iitvol:ved in the community. To make the most of your tim<~ at the Career Festival, come. to tile \Getting the Most Out ()('The Career Festival\ w<Jrb;hop which will be held Tl!e&-day, October 9, at 3:30 PM and 7:00 PM at the Career J)e~elopment Center. The Cl)C also has handouts on inf()rmational interviewing availallle to help you ask insigbtiul and helpful questions thro11g:hout the day. Use your precious time wisely, come to the biggest a.IId most informative Career Festival and find YOUR wi11ning combination! For more details, contact Janet Ha.J.rington Mattis at the Career Dev<~loJ>ment Center, 370- 5n6. FEATURE'S CAREER FESTIVAL 10. 10. 90 A G COMBINATION For STUDENTS, EMPLOYERS, & EDUCATORS- WRITE FOR FEATURES -381-1660- Collegiate lavestment Ch ge TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS College students nationwide this fall will be testig their stock market investment skills as they compete to win the $25,000 top prize in the third annual AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge. The AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge, managed by Wellesley, Mass., based Wall Street Games, Inc., is a hands-on educational game that recreates actual stock- market trading without act11al financial risk to players. The objective is to compile the most profitable stock portfolio by the end of the four-month competition. Students can draw information from any source available to them -- newspapers, business journals, their professors or a \hot tip.\ By keeping abreast of the news, the students learn about various industries and business trends in America. This year's competition, with more than $200,000 in cash and merchandise prizes, is expected to outdraw the second AT& T Collegiate Investment Challenge, which last fall attracted 15,000 student participants representing every state. The 1990 AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge also includes a contest for. high school students. Students can call toll-free 1- 800-545-1990 to register and receive competition rules and materials needed to participate. The registration fee is $49.95 for college students, $39.95 for high school students. Deadline for registering is October 27. The AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge begins N<>v. 1. 'Ihe top 10 collegiate fi11ishers will receive cash scl:lolarshi p awards. Each winner and his or her guest aJs.o vtill be flown to the Ballama.s for a week's vacation. Tl:ie top 10 high school stll.dents will receive $1,000 C<lSh scholarship awa:r.ds. Wall Street Games, Inc., was created tluee years ago by Tim DeMello, 31, a former st()ckbroker from Boston, who realized there was no realistic way for people to go through Lbe trial-and-error phase of leavfling the stock market in a way tb.at simulates the firimcial risks involved. DeMello's creation, popular in h<>rnes and offices as well as art college campuses, is a financial success story. But DeMello is equally proud of the g;arne's educational value ~mi. points out that college Jlrofessors have been using the AT &.T Collegiate Investment Cllallenge as a classroom tool. \T:he AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge brings tile world of financial markets to students, and the knowledge tlle--y gain can be valuable to them after graduation as they beg;:ia careers,\ DeMello said. rhe third annual AT&T Co Uegiate Investment Ch~llenge begins when the stock market opens for trading 011, tbe morning of Nov. 1. S tltrting with a fictional $:50();000 brokerage account arid an official stock guide, stu-<ients will buy and sell sht11es of stock via toll-free A...T\&X 300 Service calls to ''brolcers\ at Wall Street Garnes. The competition ends wlten the stock market closes at 4 p.m. Eastern time Feb. 28. An instruction booklet for players explains such strategies as \b11ying on margin\ a11d \selling short.\ Each month, the college students will receive personal accou.nt staternellts. Wall Street Games also ranks students by campus and by state, so students can check bow well they're doing against other players each month. The top 250 stude11ts nationally each month will receive prizes fromChampion USA. Of last year's 15,000 colleg;iate participants, 2 became \millionaires and only 4 went broke. Colleges with at least 50 students participating are also ranked against each other. Tb.e 10 colleg~ with the higltest average stlldent portfolios will receive :plaques. Tennessee State University won top honors in the second AT & T Collegiate Investment Challenge, College professors aloo can play the AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge in a separate category. The registration fee for professors is $39.95. Last year's top professor was Louis Miller of Tennessee State University. This year's to:p professor will win a trip for two to the Bahamas. Other SJlonsors of the third annual AT&T Collegiate Investment Challenge .are USA To-day, the Bahamas Ministry of Tourism and Chatn!)iOil USA. REMEMBER: . Payment of your Union College Telephone bill is due in full on the 1st of the month following receipt of the bill. Unpaid telephone charges are dealt with by the Accounting Office under existing policies regarding student financial responsibilities and obligations. Failure to pay your telephone bill when due may result in loss of privileges in using the College's long distance service, inability to pre-register or receive grades/ transcripts, FROM: !NTJ?O TO JBX STlTOENT POLICY ANO Pl?CX:EDlTI?ES MAHlTAL/PG. 7 Whale Watch '91 The tenth annual Cape Cod Whale Watch will be held spring term instead of in the fall. Because of the popularity and success of last spring's sunset cruise, and potential threats of fall hurricanes, we have decided to make the change to the spring a permanent one. Plan on joining us the third weekend in April for another Cetacean adventure. For the Biology Club. Prof. George Butterstein t i

COfY(:fJRDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Page 5 - - - ~ FEATURE.S e're Damn Proud By CARL ·R. F'RIEURICII, JR. I must call everyone's attention to another new Political Action Committee (PAC) on campus, one which I have already eloquently pledged my allegiance to, as have countless others. In fact, our numbers total more than any fraternity. sorority, club, or athletic program (though we don't woo higlt school students-- we're Division III). We're the Union College Pong Allegiance, and we've been discriminated against for too long. Pong athletes dedicate themselves to the game, and to the casual observer, are held in about as much esteem as a weight room groupie. But off the top o.., my .head, I could honestly say I know at least 80 \tour players\ on campus, and the numbers grow every day (81 including me). It's the official pastime cf Union College, like it or not. Ten percent of every gathering are Pong players. Now, there are many homophonies out there who may hold prejudice against our U-nique band of minstrels. Many of these people probably Safe Collegiate Life and Marina Bernard. The aim is have never experienced Pong. 'In addition, there has never been a recorded episode of Pong related violence against anyone on campus. It's bad etiquette. Let me add that the same cannot be said of some who think they have a right to commit vandalism after their weekend athletic matches. Further, we don't disrupt 'Carnegie traffic with our demonstrations, paint the Idol, or interrupt sporting events. We stay out of people's way, and only become agitated when J)eOple try to interfere with the course of play. ln fact, we're one 0f the few campus groups that doesn't discriminate de facto. · Pongaletes encourage and accept new players, regardless of sex, race or color. If you'd like to play, ask a viewer what the rules and customs are, and she or he will be glad to help you out, maybe even score you a partner. How many groups do you know that will let you walk in, and almost immediately let you get in on the action. Despite our practices, The Pong Allegiance faces a unique dilemma. We cannot get funding for our gentle pursuit. The rising cost of pong balls alone is enough to send even the most dedicated player into a wail of tears. Not to mention paddles, tables, and \Pong Whites\. (The accepted dress code is a tee-shirt, jeans, and Blucher's-- though this outfit is more for convenience than style.) We're pretty upset about the lack of funding, and want to do something about it. We've threatened to use the resources of the Union Improvement Committee, but have si.nce found out that they llave no pull. Therefore, we're takillg it to the streets. We're asking you, the silent pong players, to come out of your closets NOW and stand up for your dev()tion. Write the dean, the ladies at West, your mum and dad .. y<mr Congressperson. We need tlleir support now more than ever. Silence equals Death. Now the point of this article isn't to rouse up the carnJlUS into a fervor of what's rigllt md wrong; merely to point out that in the wide range of campus activities, the ones tint are the most fun are never the ones you hear about in pllblic (except Concordiensis, cf course). It's too bad-- the frosh don't know what they're missing. In a typically kind pong gesture, I'll provide tllem with a tip to help them alollg-- don't hit it in the pitcher. Kicking off the Union College Alcoholism Council's \SAFE COLLEGE LIFE\ Campaign. the Academic Opportunity Program and the Schenectady Fire Department Rescue and Paramedic Team will dramatize the dangers of drunk driving through a simulated automobile craslt. This exercise. scheduled for Monday, October 8. 12:20 p.m. to 1:20 p.m., near the College Center Circle, is being co-sponsored with the Office of the Dean of Students, Campus Security, Project \DARE\, \SADD\, the College Center and Food Service, the New York State Police, the to heighten student awareness .__--------------------------------- Schenectady Po lie e Department, and the Alcoholism Council of Schenectady. The simulated crash of two vehicles operated by college students who have had a\night on the town\ will feature students from the Union 'college campus community. Participants are: Ellen Nichols, Brenda Cruz, Jacques Etienne, Ismael Laboy, Edgar Letriz, about the dangers of drunk driving and to encourage alcohol-free, drug-free activities. In addition, the New York State Police will demonstrate, through the use of · a \Convincer\, what happens to a person who is not wearing a seat belt when involved in an accident. Information released from the National Crime Prevention Council states that \more than 4,000 teens are killed and another 110,000 badly hurt each yar in car crashe.~ involving alcohol. Not~~ have been drinking, but some are passengers or innocent targets of people who drink and drive. These statistics mean that from a high school class of 475 this year, two students are likely to be killed or injured in drunk driving accidents. ONE COULD BE YOUR BEST FRIEND. ONE COULD BE YOU!\ Plan to attend on Monday, October 8. Rain date is Friday, October 12. TENURABILITY OF PROF. FATIC An Ad Hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability cf Prof. Vuk Fatic of the Dept. of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Any member of the College community wishing to submit material or testimony before this committee is encouraged to do so by contacting any member of the Ad Hoc committee: Professors Alan Taylor, Mathematics Department, Chairman; Ed Craig, Electrical Engineering; Francis Federighi, Computer Science; Adrian Frazier, English. Support Pro-Choice Meetings Are at 6:00p.m. Eve~ Monday. Look For Lo~ation Notice. THE NUMBER ONE KILLER OF TEENAGERS IS DRUNK DRNING, MONDAY OCfOBER 8 12:30PM - 1:20PM MO CAR SH NEAR COLLEGE CENTER CIRCLE Sponsored by the Academic Opportunity Program, Office of the Dean of Students, Campus Security, College Center and Food Service, Project DARE, SADD, Schenectady Fire Dept. Resclle and Paramedic Team, Schenectady Police Dept., New York State Police and the Alcoholism Council of Schenectady. HOMECOMING . '90 Final General Meeting · We hope to see everyone who was at the 1st meeting, and any interested newcomers. Wednesday, October 10 .. 4:00 p.m. CC410 (free food too) WHATEVER THE REASON WHATEVER THE SEASON '---.....l \CALL HOME\ ) I L-.:__...:.:.::..J \GET WELL \HAPPY SOON\ BIRTHDAY\ TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFJCATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT ALTERNATIVE UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. OR CALL 370..6411 FOR MORE INFORMATION.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Union College hosts L • • IVIng With AIDS The fourth Annual AIDS Awareness Week A series of lectures, workshops and community events on the Union campus and other Schenectady locations Sunday, Nov. 4 through Friday, Nov. 9 The Minerva Hour The Minerva CoininiUee of Union College presents The Fall1990 Schedule Oct. 4 Was the work of early sociologists \gender blind\? Som.e scholars think so, espe- cially in the light of the feminist movement. Guenther Roth, professor of sociology at Columbia Uni~ersity, has devoted much of his career to teaching and research on the founders of modern sociology. He will speak on \Emile Durkheim and the 1 Principles of 1789: The Issue of Gender Equality.\ · Oct. 11 Regardless of how the Gulf crisis is resolved, U.S. policy in the Middle East must begin to address underlying conditions of frustration and aggression in the region, says Mansour Farhang, professor of politics at Bennington College. He has held dip- lomatic posts as Iran's ambassador to the United Nations, and Iran's envoy in nego- tiations to end the Iran-Iraq war. He will speak on \The Gulf Crisis and U.S. For- eign Policy in th:e Region.\ Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. Lectures are in the College Center Auditorium, except for Oct. 4 (Music Room) and Nov. 8 (Memorial Chapel). All are welcome. Admission free. For more information, call (518) 370-6508. t-leiP i[)T Vrevent Child 4buse% Come Support the Annual M&M-A-Thon Oct. 8-12 $1 = 2 guesses _I - Get 11lli5 .... fOr jud -~ c~s ~ .tn.l:rtf .. 11,ol).. coWd lOii-t. a. Lrnttltd'tdl'l:lfnt. . 'J?p.tl,#t!/ar Rat\ -r-shirt! I I ,/)raw 1/tgc IJ)i/1 be It~/ d tJ--t th, end of ea.cA week, ha.t Jw,rry~ offer on.I!J !Jood while .supplies /tUt! J Union Co((ege -+ tj I ' .,I ·~r ,, 'I -; \ l \ i ' l

_P_a_g_e _6-----------------~C...:..O....,N..:.C..:.O.:..:R..:.D.:..:IE:..:N...:..=SIS, October 4, 1990 -+ Union College hosts • • I I ·-.: l _ ___.,. l. - =-- The Fourth Annual AIDS Awareness Week A series of lectures, workshops and community events on the Union campus and other Schenectady locations tj Sunday, Nov. 4 through Friday, Nov. 9 The Minerva Hour The Minerva Conunitlce of Union College presents The Fall1990 Schedule - - ---------------------------------~ l~d. •l \\',\'> t:'l' \\'llft.ltf L',nJy Stl<..'iulc')',i<;!~ \)~PIHiCr blind\? Sl)lll\' ~cl\,J!,1IS tlllrd· <;• •, \\!'•'- l i.lliy in the li~_;ht ._,f tile kmin:s~ ll\U\'Cl11l't\t. Guenther Roth, profL':i:-io! uf s, .. -j,,Jc')~y ;1l Ctdumbia University. has JL'\'uled n~uch of his career to tt-.1ching t~nJ n•:;~_•arch 011 tltl· fuundl'rs of riwdcrn sociology. I le will speak on\Emile lJurkheim and the l'rinciplcs ot 1789: The Issue of Gender Equality.\ Oct. 11 Regardless of how the Gulf crisis is resolved, U.S. policy in the Middle East must begin to address underlying conditions of frustration and aggression in the region, says Mansour Farhang, professor of politics at Bennington College. He has held dip- lomatic posts as Iran's ambassador to the United Na-tions, and Iran's envoy in nego- tiations to end the Iran-Iraq war. He will speak on \The Gulf Crisis and U.S. For- eign Policy in the Region.\ Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. Lectures are in the College Center Auditorium, except for Oct. 4 (Music Room) and Nov. 8 (Memorial Chapel). All are welcome. Admission free. For more information, call (518) 370-6508. t-leiP §[)T r:>revent Child Abuse! Come Support the Annual M & M-A-Thon Oct. 8-12 $1 = 2 guesses I I j., : i ' ' I . I . r \ \. I I \ \ ... r . I \. I. •· I

:; \ ,) l J 1 ·, ~· ·, l , ' ' f 1 r • l a , • • J c , o' J ) 0 \ ' , ' I f 1 \ j CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, i99fl Page 7 ~ ~j INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student Of The Week: By SA:BINE SCHMITZ After three weeks here at Union College I have been asked to say a few words about my first impressions being at an American college. Before I do so, however, please remember that first impressions tend to be rough generalizations rather than profound opinions. [Whereas in Germany I am just a student, in a way 1 can now lead three lives here-- I am a teaching assistant, I am a student, and I am a foreigner.] You could say, of course, that I am a foreign student working as a teaching assistant, but the variety of experience is, in fact, threefold. Teaching your own language is a new and great experience. You start to think about rules and reasons for language phenomena which you have never thought of before. (But) I really enjoy the work with the Sabine Schmitz German students andl strongly hope that we can slowly but surely lighten up our \drill sessions\ with new kinds of material, interesting discussions, games, etc. Being a student at the same time offers me the opposite perspective. It is fascinating to see how educational systems can differ from one country to another. \You mean you can see and talk to your professor, whenever you want to?\ In Germany you are usually lucky to meet his assistant and even then, make sure that you have an official appointment. There are a lot of exceptions, of course, but the majority of professors do not \leave the door open\ for their students. Quizzes and tests during the term are not very common at German universities, either. Professors do not really care whether you have read the assigned pages or not or whether you are there or not. Instead, a big final examination at last controls the intensity of your studies. You should not think, however, that there are no ideals behind the education at German universities. Among others, taking responsibility for oneself is one of them. One aims at showing the students that it was their decision to study and that they, therefore, should make the best of it. To my mind, both systems have their advantages and disadvantages. What to prefer often highly depends on the individual student's personality. Finally, as a foreigner I am really impressed by the friendly way in which most of the American students welcomed us here. They are willing to correct our English without frustrating us, to explain the rules of an American football game (a game, which does not really seem to have any rules), to comment on our table manners (\She really eats a sandwich with a knife and fork\). and just to have fun with us. Maybe they also had the experience that knowing about the habits and attitudes in your country and being able to explain them are two very different things. \Now that I think about it, I don't really know why we do it that way.\ To make a long story short-- I would not want to miss one of these many kinds of experiences which are now offered to me. I am looking forward to a great year and to presenting my impressions in a more detailed and profound way in a few weeks. Table M()nda\Y ()(t. s £;£:400 7:3() P~m. \!!lltot!'· ....... Je· Das Boot ist voii/The Boat is Full (1981 I 104 min. col) FRENCH Directed by Markus lmhoof with Tina Engel, Curt Bois, Renate Steiger, Mathias Gnadinger. This is the haunting story of a group of refugees who attempt to escape from Nazi Germany by seeking asylum in Switzerland. Since families stand a better chance than grouped-together strangers, the little band tries to pose as a family. But soon, the village in which they are hiding becomes aware of their true identities, and their deportation seems imminent. A controvrsial film about struggle for freedom and for life, The Boat is Full reveals Switzerland's emigration policies which were so stringent that by the summer of 1942, the country was declared \a full lifeboat.\ The struggle of those who sought freedom for a better life is explored with depth and compassion, creating a film that will stay with you long after it's over. German with English subtitles. Tqesday 12:30~ 1:30 CHINE. SE ·-- ' Men & Women Living Together: \International House\ Here we are procrastinating our studies as usually. From left to right are Lal Hom, Jill Phillips, Jorg Rusche (Germany), Alan Beestlng (York), Andry Fyodorov (Soviet Union), Mike Morin, and Kristin Lupoll (New Jersey). Wednesday 12:30-1:30 SPANISH JAPANESE Thursday 12:30-1:30 GERMAN Prldlay 12:30 .. 1:30 RUSSIAN [~ wwFI In the upperclass dining hall. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU ()10). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GER..~ 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weel<:s. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM This Week in the News: 1.) President Bush addressed the U.N. and said he was hopeful there might be a diplomatic solution to the Persian Gulf crisis. His . remarks seemed a step back from the bellicose tone of recent days. 2.) The Government will start sending $20,000 checks to each of the surviving Japanese Americans who were sent to internment camps in World War II. 3.) The four World War II allies formally suspended their rights and responsibilities over Germany and Berlin, leaving the two Germanys fully sovereign to unify, Tuesday. 4.) The final countdown to German unity began. Tens of thousands of visitors poured into Berlin for the huge reunion celebration planned to start with the raising of the black, red and gold flag. Unification of Germany, Wed., Oct. 3, 1990. Courtesy of New York Times

', ; CONCORDIENSJS, October 4, 1990 Page 7 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student Of The Week: By SABINE SCHMITZ After three weeks here at Union College I have been asked to say a few words about my first impressions being at an American college. Before I do so, however, please remember that first impressions tend to be rough generalizations rather than profound opinions. [Whereas in Germany I am just a student, in a way I can now lead three lives here-- I am a teaching assistant, I am a student, and I am a foreigner.] You could say, of course, that I am a foreign student working as a teaching assistant, but the variety of experience is, in fact, threefold. Teaching your own language is a new and great experience. You start to think about rules and reasons for language phenomena which you have never thought of before. (But) I really enjoy the work with the Sabine Schmitz German students andl strongly hope that we can slowly but surely lighten up our \drill sessions\ with new kinds of material, interesting discussions, games, etc. Being a student at the same time offers me the opposite perspective. It is fascinating to sec how educational systems can differ from one country to another. \You mean you can sec and talk to your professor, whenever you want to'?\ In Germany you are usually lucky to meet his assistant and even then, make sure that you have an official appointment There are a lot of exceptions, of course, but the majority of professors do not \leave the door open\ for their students. Quizzes and tests during the term are not very common at German universities, either. Professors do not really care whether you have read the assigned pages or not or whether you are there or not. Instead, a big final examination at last controls the intensity of your studies. You should not think, however, that there are no ideals behind the education at German universities. Among others, taking responsibility for oneself is one of them. One aims at showing the students that it was their decision to study and thm they, therefore, should make the best of it. To my mind, both systems have their advantages and disadvantages. What to prefer often highly depends on the individual student's personality. Finally, as a foreigner I am really impressed by the friendly way in which most of the American students welcomed us here. They are willing to correct our English without frustrating us, to explain the rules of an American football game (a game, which does not really seem to have any rules), to comment on our table manners (\She really eats a sandwich with a knife and fork\) and just to have fun with us. Maybe they also had the experience that knowing about the habits and attitudes in your country and being able to explain them are two very different things. \Now that I think about it, I don't really know why we do it that way.'\ To make a long story \hort-- I would not want 10 mi..;s onl' of these many kinds of experiences whirh arc nnw offered to me. I am looking forward to a great yrar and to presenting my impressions in a more detailed and profound w:1y in a few weeks. fot()ndaY ()d.S (£400 7:1() P.m. Language Table Schedule Das Boot ist vall/The Boat is Full (1981, 104 min. col) Monday 12:30-1:30 FRENCH Directed by Markus lmhoof with Tina Engel, Curt Bois, Renate Steiger, Mathias Gnadinger. This is the haunting story of a group of refugees who attempt to escape from Nazi Germany by seeking asylum in Switzerland. Since families stand a better chance than grouped-together strangers, the little band tries to pose as a family. But soon, the village in which they are hiding becomes aware of their true identities, and their deportation seems imminent. A controvrsial film about struggle for freedom and for life, The Boat is Full reveals Switzerland's emigration policies which were so stringent that by the summer of 1942, the country was declared \a full lifeboat.\ The struggle of those who sought freedom for a bet1er life is explored with depth and compassion, creating a film that will stay with you long after it's over. German with English subtitles. Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Fridlay 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30--1:30 12:30-1:30 CHINESE SPANISH JAPANESE GERMAN RUSSIAN Men & Women Living Together: In tbe upperclass dining hall. \International House\ Here we are procrastinating our studies as usually. From left to right are Lal Hom, ~Ill Phillips, Jorg Rusche (Germany), Alan Beestmg (York), Andry Fyodorov (Soviet Union), Mike Morin, and Kristin Lupoli (New Jersey). GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 01 0)- All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00 PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other count des and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to bon-ow tapes. Ordinarily, they are k.epr in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X62I 6. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM This Week in the News: 1.) President Bush addressed the U.N. and said he was hopeful there might he a diplomatic solution to the Persian Gulf crisis. His remarks seemed a step back from the bellicose tone of recent days_ 2.) The Government will start sending $20,000 checks to each of the surviving Japanese Americans who were sent to internment camps in World War II. 3.) The four World War II allies formally suspended their rights and responsibilities over Germany and Berlin, leaving the two Germanys fully sovereign to unify, Tuesday. 4.) The final countdown to German unity began. Tens of thousands of visitors poured into Berlin for the huge reunion celebration planned to start with the raising of the black, red and gold !lag. Unification of Germany, Wed., Oct. 3, 1990. Courtesy of New York Times

CONCORDIENSIS, October 4; J990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Welcoming All . ALAS • • Model United Nations By JOY WHITTED and SAMANTHA MORALES The African and Latino Alliance of Students (A.L.A.S.) would like· to take this opportunity to welcome everyone back from summer vacation. Our organization is anticipating an exciting and productive upcoming year. We are looking forward to working with the Administration as well as the student body, and ' hope that the community here at Union will continue to support all functions and future endeavors. A.L.A.S. has set itself on a long journey in hopes of making Union a more diverse and more conscience community. A.L.A.S. was established for the purpose of providing its members with an outlet to satisfy cultural, social, and political motivations. The organization sponsors a variety of events and recreational activities for its members and the college community, which is geared toward political, ethnic, and artistic expressionism. We strive to \ maintain an env,ifonment where Have you ever wondered how brotherhood, sisterhood. peace, anything gets done in this unity, and common interests world? No, huh? Well, neither will thrive. ; did we until we all got bold Our organization produced a one day and showed up for a healthy agenda for the month Union College Model United of February (Black History , Nations meeting. From that Month) which included a : first meeting, our eyes were speaker every week along with , opened to amazing places we a special entree in the dining ' all thought were still British halls. Spring term began with \, colonies. a campaign for the adoption of ' The Model U.N. discusses a multicultural curriculum. The : · the ins and outs of the real pet~tions signed during this 1 !: U.N.-- from how legislation penod demonstrated. the support ; gets passed to what radio from the Union Community. ·1· stations the delegates listen to Towards the end of the term we ' in their earpieces. But in all met with members from the Board of Trustees. President Morris, and the Administration and came to an agreement on several issues. President Morris also announced his commission on diversity which would address many of our concerns. Overall, A.L.A.S. felt that last year was the start of a great future for the campus in general. If anyone is interested in being a member of A.L.A.S. attend our meetings, held every Monday at 6:00 p.m. in Bronner House. Marine Term Abroad Term Spring Bermuda Cape Cod Gulf of Maine Schooner Expedition Information Meeting: Oct. 10 - Wednesday 4:30 p.m. S.S. 104 Applications Due Oct. 17 Spring Term Abroad in Freiburg, Germany The application deadline for Union's German Term Abroad in Freiburg this coming spring is nearing. There are still some places available, and students are invited to enroll in the program. You have to be at least sophomores and satisfy the minimum prerequisite for acceptance, which is completion of German 11 by the end of Winter Term. Students on the upper track are expected to have completed at least German 120 by the end of Winter Term. Freiburg is a beautiful city in the Black Forest in the south of Germany, oordered on the south by Switzerland and on the west by France. Freiburg, \the Pearl of the Black Forest\ combines the history of a- medieval fortress with the culture of a gracious European city. The focal point is its Cathedral, one of the finest examples , of German high gothic architecture. The University also dates to the 12th century. Major attractions near the Black Forest are, Basel, Switzerland, and Strasbourg and the Alsace region, France. Students going to Freiburg will attend the Goethe-Institut, a renowned language institute, where they will receive language instruction with students from all over the world. They will also take a \Civilization Arts, and Architecture\ course, taught by Professor Warde, faculty member in residence. This course will draw on all of Freiburg's resources and acquaint students with its rich traditions. There will also be several trips (included in the cost of the te1m) to major cultural centers, e.g. Heidelberg, Munich, Speyer, Prague, Weimar~ Nurnberg, etc. The cost of the program is slightly more than the cost of a term spent on the Union campus. All scholarships currently received will apply. One additional attraction is that students participating in the spring term can choose to spend some extra time in Europe during the summer without spending additional air fare. All interested students should contact the Terms Abroad Office, HU 211, for applications and more information. Application deadline is October 29. seriousness, the group strives for a better understanding of world politics; and the issues which may not make it on the evening news every day, but effect the lives of millions of people around the Globe. Convention for Collegiate U.N. groups. Many of the . issues are discussed through mock sessions of the U.N., where members of the club each :prepare to defend the position of conflicting countries. Part of the purpose for this is to prepare for our annual trip to Harvard, where we take on the role of a nation in tne National If Global Politics, sharping y()ur speaking and writing skills, and learning more about the United Nations sounds like fun to you, the Union U.N. is V!aiting for you. If not, we're still waiting for you, so get off your butt and come to our table at the Activities Fair. Remember, without the U.N., ·we'd all be at ION (if you can't make the fair, look for :posters/fliers in Carnegie for cur first general meeting). International Trivia: 1. How many official languages are there at the United Nation,s? 2 .. What European country, apart from Britain, has provided the most immigrants to Australia? 3. What's the most common No. of stars on National flags? 4. What country's jnternational abbreviation is Yugoslavia? 5. What is a \preservative\ in French? wopuo~ v ·s U!AUISOAUA_ ·p ~uo .£ Spanish AIUli ·z XIS .l - : S.ItlMSUV Club First Meeting: Monday, Oct. 8 Humanities Faculty Lounge 4:00p.m. All Welcome! For questions, call: Denise (4354) Tera (4430) _,

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Welcoming All. ALAS • • Model United Nations B~· JOY WHITTED and SA,1A~THA MORALES The African and Latino Allianl.'c of Students (A.LA.S.) would like to take this opportunity to welcome ev.:-ryonc back from summer vacation. Our organization is anticip:.Hing an exciting and productive upcoming year. We are looking forward to \vorking with the Administration as well as the student body, and hope that the community here at Union will continue to support all functions and future endeavors. A.L.A.S. has set itself on a long journey in hopes of making Union a more diverse and more conscience community. A.L.A.S. was established for the purpose of providing its members with an outlet to satisfy cultural, social, and political motivations. The organization sponsors a variety of events and recreational activities for its members and the college community, which is geared toward political, ethnic, and artistic expressionism. We strive to maintain an environment where Have you ever wondered how brotherhood, sisterhood, peace, anything gets done in this unity, and common interests world? No, huh? Well, neither will thrive. did we until we all got bold Our organization produced a · one day and showed up for a healthy agenda for the month Union College Model United of February (Black History Nations meeting. From that Month) which included a first meeting, our eyes were speaker every week along with · opened to amazing places we a special entree in the dining · all thought were still British halls. Spring tcnn began with colonies. a campaign for the adoption of The Model U.N. discusses a multicultural curriculum. The the ins and outs of the real petitions signed during this · U.N.-- from how legislation period demonstrated the support · gets passed to what radio from the Union Community. : stations the delegates listen to Towards the end of the term we ! in their earpieces. But in all met with members from the Board of Tru stecs. President Morris, and the Administration and came to an agreement on several issues. President Morris also announced his commission on diversity which would address many of our concerns. Overall, A.L.A.S. felt that last year was the start of a great future for the campus in general. If anyone is interested in being a member of A.L.A.S. attend our meetings, held every Monday at 6:00 p.m. in Bronner House. Tickets for ''Fiddler on the Roof'' attbe Starlight Theater~ Latham Abroad Term Marine Term Spring Thursdayt October 4, at 8:30 p.m. Bermuda Cape Cod Gulf of Maine Schooner Expedition Information Meeting: Oct. 10 • Wednesday 4:30 p.m. S.S. 104 Applications Due Oct. 17 Ticket Prices: $14.50 with College ID Buy One and Get· One Free. Sjpring Term Abroad in Freiburg, Germany The application deadline for Union's Gennan Term Abroad in Freiburg this coming spring is nearing. There are still some places available, and students are invited to enroll in the program. You have to be at least sophomores and satisfy the minimum prerequisite for acceptance, which is completion of German 11 by the end of Winter Tenn. Students on the upper track are expected to have completed at least German 120 by the end of Winter Tenn. Freiburg is a beautiful city in the Black Forest in the south of Germany, bordered on the south by Switzerland and on the west by France. Freiburg, \the Pearl of the Black Forest\ combines the history of a medieval fortress with the culture of a gracious European city. The focal point is its Cathedral, one of the finest examples of German high gothic architecture. The University also dates to the 12th century. Major attractions near the Black Forest are, Basel, Switzerland, and Strasbourg and the Alsace region, France. Students going to Freiburg will attend the Gocthe-Institut, a renowned language institute, where they will receive language instruction with students from all over the world. They will also take a \Civilization Arts, and Architecture\ course, taught by Professor Warde, faculty member in residence. This course will draw on a.ll of Freiburg\ resources and acquaint students with its rich traditions. There will also be several trips (i ndudcd in the cost of the term) to major cultural centers, e.g. Heidellx:rg, Munich, Speyer, Prague, Weimar, Numberg, etc. The cost of the program is slightly more than the cost of a tenn spent on the Union campus. All scholarships cmTently received will apply. One additional attraction is that students participating in the spring tenn can choose to spend some extra time in Europe during the summer without spending additional air fare. All interested students should contact the Terms Abroad Office, HU 211, for applications and more information. Application deadline is October 29. seriousness, the group strives for a better understanding of world politics, and the issues which may not make it on the evening news every day. but effect the lives of millions of people around the Globe. Many of the issues are discussed through mock sessions of the U.N., where members of the club each prepare to defend the position of conflicting countries. Part of the purpose for this is to prepare for our annual trip to Harvard, where we take on the role of a nation in tne National Convention for Collegiate U.N. groups. If Global Politics, sharping your speaking and writing skills, and learning more about the United Nations sounds like fun to you, the Union U.N. is waiting for you. If not, we're still waiting for you, so get off your butt and come to our table at the Activities Fair. Remember, without the U.N .• we'd all be at ION (if you can't make the fair, look for posters/fliers in Carnegie for our first general meeting). International Trivia: 1. How many official languages are there at the United Nations? 2 .. What European country, apart from Britain, has provided the most immigrants to Australia? 3. What's the most common No. of stars on National flags? 4. What country's international abbreviation is Yugoslavia? 5. What is a \preservative\ in French? UIOpUOJ \:j ·~ A:p:!ll ·z B!ABJSOAnA 017 X!S . l guo .£ :s..taA\SUV Spanish Club First Meeting: Monday, Oct. 8 Humanities Faculty Lounge 4:00p.m. All Welcome! For questions, call: Denise (4354) Tera (4430) ! '':')- . l \1 l ' I , I -.l ( ; I ! l ;, l I . l I ! I

. . . L. S··A T o G R E e> .G M A T · Take the Test Prep Course that Test Companies Fear THE The Princeton Review's students increase their scores meteorically.* That's wlily every rnaj<lr test company has announced overhauls jn its tests in the past two years.lt's also why we're the lal'gest SAT course in the country. And ifswhywe'llsoon be the larS,JeSt LSAT, GMAT, and GRE COlllrse. Owr classes are smaU (8-12 stu- dents}andaregrouped closely by shared strengthsandweaknesses (the competition packs over 40 studentsofall abilities into a room). Our materials are kept up-to-date by over half a million dollars of research each year. CaiJ:llhe Princeton Review today. And let the test companies worry about }'()U. PRINCETON REVIEW. Classes for winter exams are forming now. (518) 458·8552 ext.B • Ouraver<Jqeimprovements exceed8po/nts on th~LSA7's 10·48sca!e, SO points on the GMAT's 20G-800scaJe, 150 pCJints on the SArs 4liG-1600 scale, and 210 points on the GRE's 600·2400 scale. The Princeton Revf&W. is rJot affiliated with the.fducatir~nal Testing Srmice or Princeton University. Oon't Take Kaplm. , CONCORDIENS1s; October 4, 1990 Attention Freshmen Preceptorial Students! Page 9 Help yourself to a better understanding of Machiavelly's The Prince .. Spend a half hour with a new computer tutorial called \MacPrince\ cteated just for you. It's available on the Macintosh Computers in the CHUC Room (Humanities 016) and in the Mac1ntosh Lab (Steinmitz 1 00). Instructions can be found in both locations. If you have yoU{' own Macintosh or access to someone elses, get a free diskette containing the tutorial at the Instructional Technology Office in Humanities 020. Need more information? Call Professor Sargent at 370-6360. HOMECOMING '90 Enter a FLOAT in the HOMECOMING PA,RADE ® ® ® rP~n~~® ® ® ® will be awarded in four catagories Be a part of the fun! Cell the Alumni Office for Details. 370-6168 CONCORDIENSIS NEEDS You! STOP BY OUR BOOTH AT THE AcTIVITIES FEsTIVAL TODAY FOR INFORMATION ATTEND OUR FIRST GENERAL MEETING ON SUNDAY, OCTOBER 7 AT 7:30 P.M. IN CC ROOM 303 EVERYONE INTERESTED IS WELCOME. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE

I I f f I .. . , ; . \ . ' . -:~,·s>A.T o.GRE.• G>M.A.T. . ' •: • .:··~ I, • • ' • • ' '• ,· • ' ' • -. ' , • • • Take the Test P.rep Course that Test Companies Fear THE The Princeton Review's students increase their scores meteorically. • That's why every major test company has announced overhauls in its tests in the pasttwo years.lt's also why we're the largest SAT course in the country. And ifs why we'll soon be the largestLSAT, GMAT, and GRE course. Our classes are small (8-12 stu- dents) and are grouped closely by shared strengths and weaknesses (the competition packs over 40 students of all abilities into a room). Our materials are kept up-to-date by over half a million dollars of research each year. Call The Princeton Review today. And let the test companies worry about you. PRINCETON REVIEW Classes for winter exams are forming now. (5181 458-8552 eKt.8 • Our average improvements exceed 8 points on the LSAT's 10-48 scafe, 80 points on the GMAT's 20D-800 scale, 150 points on the SAT's 40Q-1600 scale, and 210 points on the GRf's 600-2400 scale. The Princeton Review is not affiliated with the Educational Testing Service or Princeton University. Don't Take Koplan. CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Attention Freshmen Preceptorial Students! Page 9 Help yourself to a better understanding of Machiavelly's The Prince. Spend a half hour with a new computer tutorial called \MacPrince\ created just for you. It's available on the Macintosh Computers in the CHUC Room (Humanities 016) and in the Macintosh Lab (Steinmitz 1 00). Instructions can be found in both locations. If you have your own Macintosh or access to someone elses. get a free diskette containing the tutorial at the Instructional Technology Office in Humanities 020. Need more information? Call Professor Sargent at 370-6360. HOMECOMING '90 Enter a FLOAT in the HOMECOMING PARADE ® ® ® [f)[ru0~~® ® © ® will be awarded in four catagories Be a part of the fun! Call the Alumni Office for Details. 370-6168 CONCORDIENSIS NEEDS You! STOP BY OUR BOOTH AT THE AcTIVITIEs FEsTIVAL TODAY FOR INFORMATION ATTEND OUR FIRST GENERAL MEETING ON SuNDAY, OCTOBER 7 AT 7:30 P.M. IN CC ROOM 303 EVERYONE INTERESTED IS WELCOME. HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 ENVIRONMENTAL Tune Into The Environment By DON VALERIO and KAREN \VALYOU A ten-part environmental issues series premiers tonight on PBS (Cilannels 17 ·& 45). The series, entitled Race to Save tile Planet, i s produced by a Boston television crew that traveled around the world to discover the huge environmental problems that challenge the planet today. Each episode will illustrate the comp~lex interaction of political, social, and economic forces with. the natural environment Race to Save the Planet emphasizes the surprising and unexpected ways in which apparently unrelated ecological problems can affect one another. The series will deal with areas ranging from the South American rain forests to the Himalayan foothills to African deserts to the Rhine valley. In fact, the series includes segments filmed on every COIJtinent. The series is based on the regeneration process, which is designed to stimulate a person's awareness of a problem, to integrate that heightened awareness within the whole person, and to turn that awareness into environmental action. This process is based on five steps. 1. Discover!- Before making a deep commitment to work to save the planet an individual must fust discover more about the world a!ld its environmental condition. The emphasis in this step is on wide-ranging questions th.at awaken new global insights. 2. Explore! - This step uses discussion on the points of discovery in order to deepen the viewer's understanding. The purpose of this step is to gain added depth and perspective in order to plan for eco-action. 3. Integrate! -This step is an important precursor to successful planning and action. In order for new ideas to become wholly one's own, they must first be integrated in the individuals thoughts and feelings. 4. Plan! - This stage begins to transform the new ideas into successful and effective action. This step can include relatively simple decision making or more in depth and strategic planning. 5. Act! - In this step the individual or group moves to specific activities to save and renew tile environment. Eco- action culminates the regeneration process. The above process represents an effective method for turning knowledge into action. We encourage all environmentally cons~1ous individt 1 als and student groups to watch the series. A viewer's gp.:ide designed to accompany the series is also available to facilitate group discussion or individual thought, anyone interested in obtaining a copy should write to Karen Valyou at Box #2330 or to Don Valerio at Box #1987. In the meantime, we also encourage everyone to re- examine their own lifestyles and to decide what can be done to save the planet at the individual level. The following principles can be used as a guide. 1. Lifestyle - Examine your daily life in terms of its effects on the earth and determine what '.. . / -.. I I you can do to become more environmentally aware. 2. Household - Use only environmentally safe products. 3. Garbage - Produce less waste by consuming less, using reusable bags, and by limiting buying to those products that use a minimal amount of packaging. 4. Transportation - Try to cut back on unnecessary travel and use the most efficient forms of transportation available. 5. Shopping - Become environmentally conscious by choosing goods that have low environmental impact. 6. Energy Savings · Use energy more efficiently and use renewable sources whenever possible. 7. Recycling - Encourage the recycling efforts on the Union Campus. 8. Eco-Action - Know that each person does make a difference and communicate th.is to others. Everyone can contribute something to the race to save the planet. Individuals should start by watching the PBS series and by Jommg environmentally aware groups on campus such as Sea and S.P.A.A. Environmental Activism on Campus Recycling Committee Sundays 5:30 p.m. Wednesday 7:30 p.m. Meetings: CC203 CC409 Help Get Us Off the Ground!! • • • • Student Environmental Alliance Contact: Karen x6968 or Wendy x4203 • • • • Environmental Awareness Write for Concordiensis!! Contact: Franz at 393-4021 or Bryan at x4022 or BryaJt .. ~.t. x4024 W01th Saving. ··+:-:,:,!:!:.'?:r' .···.~;\':- Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen The Labrador duck. The Carolina u parakeet. The list of extinct animalS\ But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is v.'Orking to s:n-e endangered species. join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation. 1412 16th Sreet, NW, Washington, DC 20036·2266. . I ' I ' 1

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Octo!Jer 4, 1990 ENVIRONMENTAL Tune Into The Environment E:y DON VALERIO and KAREN VALYOU A ten-part environmental isslles series premiers tonight on PBS (Channels 17 & 45). 1'he series, entitled Race to Save the Planet, i s produced by a Boston television crew that traveled around the world to discover the huge environmental problems that challenge the planet today. Each episode will illustrate the complex interaction of political, social, and economic forces with the natural environment. Race to Save the Planet emphasizes the surprising and unexpected ways in which apparently unrelated ecological problems can affect one another. The series will deal with areas ranging from the South American rain forests to the Himalayan foothills to African desens to ti1c Rhine valley. In fact, the ~ries includes segments filmed e>n every continent. The series is based on the regeneration process, which is designed to stimulate a person's awareness of a problem, to mtegratc that heightened a warcncss within the whole poson, and to turn that awareness inLO environmental action. This process is based on five steps. l. Discover! - Before making a deep commitment to work to save the planet an individual must first discover more about t11e world and its environmental condition. The emphasi~ in this step is on wide-ranging questions that awaken new global insights. 2. Explore! - This step uses discussion on the points of discovery ia order to deepen the viewer's understanding. The ]>urpose of this step is to gain added depth and perspective in order to plan for eco-action. 3. Integrate! - This step is an important precursor to successful planning and action. In order for new ideas to become wholly one's own, they must first be integrated in the individuals thoughts and feelings. 4. Plan! - This stage begins to transfonn the new ideas into successful and effective action. This step can include relatively simple decision making or more in depth and strategic planning. 5. Act! - In this step the individual or group moves to specific activities to save and renew the environment. Eco- action culminates the regeneration process. The above process represents an effective method for turning knowledge into action. We encourage all environm~-;ntally cons~ious individ~ 1 a13 and student groups to watch the series. A viewer's gl'ide designed to accompany the series is also available to facilitate group discussion or individual thought, anyone interested in obtaining a copy should write to Karen Valyou at Box #23 30 or to Don Valerio at Box #191-P. In the meantime, we also encourage everyone to re- examine their own lifestyles and to decide what can be done to save the planet at the i ndividuaJievel. The following principles can be used as a gu..ide. 1. Lifestyle - Examine your daily life in terms of its effects on the earth and detennine what you can do to become more environmentally aware. 2. Household - Use only environmentally safe products. 3. Garbage - Produce less waste by consuming less, using reusable bags, and by limiting buying to those products that use a minimal amount of packaging. 4. Transportation - Try to cut back on unnecessary travel and use the most efficient forms of transportal ion available. 5. Shopping · B ccome environmentally conscious by choosing goods that ha vc low environmental impact. 6. Energy Savings · t:se energy more efficiently and usc renewable sources whenever possible. 7. Recycling - Encourage the recycling efforts on the Union Campus. 8. Eco-Action - Know that each person does make a difference and communicate this to others. Everyone can contribute something to th~ race to save the planet. Individuals should start by watching the PBS series and by joining environmentally aware groups on campus such as Sea and S.P.A.A. Environmental Activism on Campus Recycling Committee Meetings: Sundays 5:30 p.m. CC203 Wednesday 7:30 p.m. CC409 Help Get Us Off the Ground!! • • • • Student Environmental Alliance Contact: Karen x6968 or Wendy x4203 • • • • Environmental Awareness Write for Concordiensis!! Contact: Franz at 393-4021 or Bryan at x4022 or Bryan at x4024 ------------------·----- V\btth Saving. ,- \* ,..... '~ ~~ --;- '' ~ '\. '~. ·. Paper recycling coming soon to College center ·.e·····.····u·.·.·. • ·--- f - '}t,. i-:?· :;-':_ > ' ·='- -_._ -. K .· .. ·,·;, ? · ,.or········· ... ·.·w(·i' :·· ... · ··· · . ';' .. · .. ' . week, more than trees are used to the two-thirds of -Every 500,000 produce newspape·rs recycled. that are neve.r -We throw away enough office and writing paper annually to bulld a wan twelve feet high stretching from Los Angeles to New York City. ~The earth's forests are being destroyed at the rate of one football field's area every second. -We have already destroyed two-thirds of Central America's rainfores,ts. --American· ·consumers and.,, industry tb:re>w away enou.ah .; aluminum t.o rebuild our entire commerc,fa,l, airfleet every· tnree. months. · --Amerlo&ft'S, go through million plas;.IJ.e t;,ott:~es every· hour, only a ama'll percentage of which are now recycled. Gone, But Not Forgotten. \ 1 i I

1: I ' I CONCORDTENSIS, October 4~ 1990 Page 11 \-\brth Saving. WHAT CANDO By FRANZ LITZ This year environmentalists celebrated the twentieth Earth Day. Union College observed the day with a number of ceremonies and activites, and everyone agreed: The environment is something worth our attention and nature is worth celebrating. Earth Day is past us now. Six months have gone by since the celebrating and policy debate, and in the meantime, too many of us haven't given a thought to the environmental issues. Some have thought about them, but don't real'ly know what they themselves could possibly do. And so we wait, and we forget, that is until Earth Day rolls around next year. That's. too bad. There are a lot of things each of us could do as individuals. In organized groups we could turn this campus into a legitimate green zone, where unenvironmental activities would be frowned upon, and where recycling and waste reduction would be the norm. First, we need to inform ourselves of the issues. How and why should we recycle paper? (see adjacent article) What is the Greenhouse effect, and how could it be deterred? What are Americans throwing away. and how can we reduce the amount of garbage dumped in overflowing' landfills? Which materials biodegrade quickly and which do not? Where are the hazardous waste sites, and how do they affect the surrounding ecological balance? Are America's farmers destroying our water supply with pesticides? How can we reduce the acidity of our rain? What is happening to America's parks? Her forests? Her lakes? Her oceans? Information is our first resource. Well informed, we act. describe cultures- like ours. This term can be used to describe virtually every consumer-oriented society, where pretty packaging and convenience takes precedence over environmental concerns. We g;rew up with foam Big Mac wrappers, convenient \snack-pack\ pudding containers, and plastic shopping bags - every week by the dozens (just to name a few). And- worst of all - we threw it all away without giving it a thought. We need to think environmentally. Before the supermarket clerk packs your three items into yet another bag, tell her you can manage them without adding to the county landfill. Let us think about the consequences of our actions, because every one of our actions has an. environmental impact. Driving 70 mph even thougli you're not in a hurry? You're wasting energy. Using plastic utensils and paper plates because you don't feel like doing the dishes? You're neglecting the environment. It's all relevant. If each one of us took on a responsible attitude, collectively we could make a significant difference - and with minimal effort. Once the individual efforts have been made, and our community is made aware of the issues at hand, student proposals can be made to administrators, to town and city officials, to state legislators, and to our representatives in Washington. Recycling and was~e management programs are m place in many cities and towns throughout the country. Why not at Union? (see \Recycling Committee\) Why not in Schenectady? Our goal is to become environmentally minded. It requires a desire to work for the preservation of our forests, our water, and our wildlife. It requires the sensible us? of resources. It requires the will to reexamine our own old attitudes to make changes in those attitudes, and to encourage changes in others. Only then may we guarantee to our children the same Second, as Americans we need to reconsider our basic attitudes toward the world around 'us. In Germany, where the environmental movement grew into the founding of a successful political party, they use the term Wegwerfgesellschaft (\throw-away society\) to chances we have had. ENVIRONMENTAL National averages show: 41 % .•....•..........•.•.. Paper 18% ............... Yard Waste :s% •..•.• a.\!··········· .. ·· Glass 9% •....•..•.......•.•.•. Metals ~ 7% •................ , .... Plastic 8% ............... Food Waste 9% •..•.•..•.•.•...•.•.... Other RECYCLING: The Necessary Alternative By BRYAN PELLERIN and BRYAN SHERBACOW Solid waste disposal is ()ne of the most problematic issues facing our communities today. The current methods of choice, incineration and landfills, have proven to be expensive both economically and en vironmen tally. An alternative that strikes the root of the problem is recycling. While reducing the amotmt of solid waste, recycling also preserves our natural resources. Every year America11s produce aoout 180 million tens of residential and commercial waste, but only around 13%-- 23 million tons-- is eventually reclaimed. Seventy-three percent of the remaining reruse is sent to local landfills, whi•e 14% is incinerated. These twe meth<>ds of disposal, howevet\ • are temporarily solving the immediate problem wl:lile simultaneously creating ()tber Long term concer11s. Nationally, landfills are nq>idly reaching their capacities (()lle third of the nation's 6,0()0 . garbage dumps are expected to close down within five yea:rs ). This is causing landfilli11g costs to soar. forcing many of our communities to raise fees or taxes to pay for- the additional costs. The common alternative to landfill use in some communities is bumi11g the waste at an incineration facility. Incinerators reduce the volume of waste, but landfills are still essential f()r the disposal of the ash produced by this process. A se~o11d disadvantage of incineratiott ate the numerous pollutants which are illevitably released into the atmosphere during burning. Currently, state and local governments are seeking mote efficient alternatives oo these processes. Striking at the heart of the problem, the aim is to reduce the amount of trash destined for dispoal. For a growing number of communities, the answer has been to implement recyclying programs. Once stric~ly ;a volunteer activity, recychng ts now law in many parts of the country. The Environmental Protection Agency has set a national goal for source reduction/recycling: 25% by 1992. Thirty-eight states and the District of Columbia have passed recycling laws in some form and there are currently . . over 1,000 curbside collection programs in 35 states. Today, 13% of the 180 million tons of waste produced in the United States is being recycled. But what is recycling? The process involves three basic steps: 1) Separating recyclable products from other trash. Two common methods are curbside collection of materials that have already been sorted into multiple containers and transport of mixed recycla~~es to a materials recovery facdtty (MRF) for sorting. 2) Processing recyclables so that they may be substituted for virgin materials at manufacturing plants. For example, at plastics recycling facilities, old bottles are cleaned, sorted, and shredded into small chps. Then, the chips are melted and molded into small pellets for sale to manufacturers. 3) Returning recycled material to commerce, usually as part of other products. Common examples include old newsprint, which can be processed to make new newsprint or tissue, and cardboard, which can be reused in packaging. Conside·;ng that paper waste constitutes nearly half of the waste produced in the U.S., it is a logical frrst step for any recycling program. A major compcnent of the paper waste is newsprint. The process is rather simple and quite efficient. Newsprint is brought into the recycling plant on trucks and unloaded onto the floor, where it is p11shed onto a conveyor, which drops it into the pulper. In the pulper, the paper i:; immersed in water and torn apart by rotating steel blades. Chemicals are added to dissolve ink. Water and fiber solution (called .slurry) is now about one percent fiber. Slurry is pumped into a C()ntinuous pulper where debris is screened out. The slurry is then moved into a reservoir for intermediate and fine screening. The ink is then suspended in water and drained away to a waste treatment plant. Fiber slurry is concentrated and formed into paper. It is sprayed between two fabric belts which remove water. The paper moves in a continuous sheet at 35 miles per hour through steel roll~rs which squeeze the paper, whtch is now 42% fiber. The paper is then dried and ·smoothed, increasing it to a 92% fiber material. It passes one last time through a drier and is finally wound onto large reels. The entire recycling process takes about two hours. In 1988, 13,986,000 tons of newsprint were consumed in the U.S. Of tllat, about 4,500,000 tons or 33%, was reclaimed/recycled. C()nsidering the fact that 10,000 trees must be destroyed to produce 600 tons of paper, this recycling process is conserving 75 billion trees annually. Recycling now stands as the most viable alternative to current practices in solid waste disposal. In addition to solving a solid waste problem, recycling also conserves vital natural resources. A greater public awareness an.d concern for the environment is prcmpting rapid development of recycling programs. While such action is encouraging, much work remains to be done in order to keep our environment clean and healthy.

I I I· I !. CONCORDIENSJS, October 4, 1990 Page 11 \\brth Smi.ng. WHAT CANDO By FRANZ LITZ This year environmentalists celebrated the twentieth Earth Day. Union College observed the day with a number of ceremonies and activites, and everyone agreed: The environment is something worth our attention and nature is worth celebrating. Earth Day is past us now. Six months have gone by since the celebrating and policy debate, and in the meantime, too many of us haven't given a thought to the environmental issues. Some have thought about them, but don't really know what they themselves could possibly do. And so we wait, and we forget, that is until Earth Day rolls around next year. That's too bad. There are a lot of things each of us could do as individuals. In organized groups we could turn this campus into a legitimate green zone, where unenvironmental activities would be frowned upon, and where recycling and waste reduction would be the norm. First, we need to inform ourselves of the issues. How and why should we recycle paper? (see adjacent article) What is the Greenhouse effect, and how could it be deterred? What are Americans throwing away, and how can we reduce the amount of garbage dumped in overflowing· landfills? Which materials biodegrade quickly and which do not? Where are the hazardous waste sites, and how do they affect the surrounding ecological balance? Are America's farmers destroying our water supply with pesticides? How can we reduce the acidity of our rain? What is happening to America's parks? Her forests? Her lakes? Her oceans? Information is our first resource. Well informed, we act. describe cultures like ours. This term can be used to describe virtually every consutner-oriented society, where pretty packaging and convenience takes precedence over environmental concerns. We giew up with foam Big Mac wrappers, convenient \snack-pack\ pudding containers, and plastic shopping bags - eve1y week by the dozens Uust to name a few). And - worst of all - we threw it all away without giving it a thought. We need to think environmentally. Before the supermarket clerk packs your three items into yet another bag, tell her you can manage them without adding to the county landfill. Let us think about the consequences of our actions, because every one of our actions has an environmental impact. Driving 70 mph even though you're not in a hurry? You're wasting energy. Using plastic utensils and paper plates because you don't feel like doing the dishes? You're neglecting the environment. lt's all relevant. If each one of us took on a responsible attitude, collectively we could make a significant difference - and with minimal effort. Once the individual efforts have been made, and our community is made aware of the issues at hand, student proposals can be made to administrators, to town and city officials, to state legislators, and to our representatives in Washington. Recycling and was~e management programs are m place in many cities and towns throughout the country. ~hy not at Union? (see \Recyclmg Committee\) Why not in Schenectady? Our goal is to become environmentally minded. It requires a desire to work for the preservation of our forests, our water, and our wildlife. It requires the sensible us~ of resources. It requires the will to reexamine our own old attitudes to make changes in those attitudes, and to encourage changes in others. Only then may we guarantee to our children the same Second, as Americans we need to reconsider our basic attitudes toward the world around us. In Germany, where the environmental movement grew into the founding of a successful political party, they use the term Wegwerfgesellschaft (\throw-away society\) to chances we have had. ~~~ ENVIRONMENTAL National averages show: 41 % ...................... Paper 18% ............... Yard Waste 8% ....................... Glass 9% ...................... Metals 7% ...................... Plastic 8% ............... Food Waste 9% ....................... Other RECYCLING: The Necessary Alternative By BRYAN PELLERIN and BRYAN SHERBACOW Solid waste disposal is one of the most problematic issues facing our communities today. The current methods of choice, incineration and landfills, have proven to be expensive both economically and environmentally. An alternative that strikes the root of the problem is recycling. While reducing the amount of solid waste, recycling also preserves our natural resources. Every year Americans produce about 180 million tons of residential and commercial waste, but only around 13%-- 23 million tons-- is eventually reclaimed. Seventy-three percent of the remaining refuse is sent to local landfills, while 14% is incinerated. These two methods of disposal, however, · are temporarily solving the immediate problem while simultaneously creating other long term concerns. Nationally, landfills are rapidly reaching their capacities (one third of the nation's 6,000 garbage dumps are expected to close down within five years). This is causing landfilling costs to soar, forcing many of our communities to raise fees or taxes to pay for the additional costs. The common alternative to landfill use in some communities is burning the waste at an incineration facility. Incinerators reduce the volume of waste, but landfills are still essential for the disposal of the ash produced by this process. A second disadvantage of incineration are the numerous pollutants which are inevitably released into the aunosphere during burning. Currently, state and local governments are seeking more efficient alternatives to these processes. Striking at the heart of the problem, the aim is to reduce the amount of trash destined for dispoal. For a growing number of communities, the answer has been to implement recyclying programs. Once stric~ly _a volunteer activity, recycling ts now law in many parts of the country. The Environmental Protection Agency has set a national goal for source reduction/recycling: 25% by 1992. Thirty-eight states and the District of Columbia have passed recycling laws in some form, and there are currently over 1,000 curbside collection programs in 35 states. Today, 13% of the 180 million tons of waste produced in the United States is being recycled. But what is recycling? The process involves three basic steps: 1) Separating recyclable products from other trash. Two common methods are curbside collection of materials that have already been sorted into multiple containers and transport of mixed recycla?~es to a materials recovery fac1hty (MRF) for sorting. 2) Processing recyclables so that they may be substituted for virgin materials at manufacturing plants. For example, at plastics recycling facilities, old bottles are cleaned, sorted, and shredded into small chps. Then, the chips are melted and molded into small pellets for sale to manufacturers. 3) Returning recycled material to commerce, usually as part of other products. Common examples include old newsprint, which can be processed to make new newsprint or tissue, and cardboard, which can be reused in packaging. Conside ing that paper waste constitutes nearly half of the waste produced in the U.S., it is a logical first step for any recycling program. A major component of the paper waste is newsprint. The process is rather simple and quite efficient. Newsprint is brought into the recycling plant on trucks and unloaded onto the floor, where it is pushed onto a conveyor, which drops it into the pulper. In the pulper, the paper is immersed in water and torn apart by rotating steel blades. Chemicals are added to dissolve ink. Water and fiber solution (called slurry) is now about one percent fiber. Slurry is pumped into a continuous pulper where debris is screened out. The slurry is then moved into a reservoir for intermediate and fine screening. The ink is then suspended in water and drained away to a waste treatment plant. Fiber slurry is concentrated and formed into paper. It is sprayed between two fabric belts which remove water. The paper moves in a continuous sheet at 35 miles per hour through steel rollers which squeeze the paper, which is now 42% fiber. The paper is then dried and smoothed, increasing it to a 92% fiber material. It passes one last time through a drier and is finally wound onto large reels. The entire recycling process takes about two hours. In 1988, 13,986,000 tons of newsprint were consumed in the U.S. Of that, about 4,500,000 tons or 33%, was reclaimed/recycled. Considering the fact that 10,000 trees must be destroyed to produce 600 tons of paper, this recycling process is conserving 7 5 billion trees annually. Recycling now stands as the most viable alternative to current practices in solid waste disposal. In addition to solving a solid waste problem, recycling also conserves vital natural resources. A greater public awareness and concern for the environment is prompting rapid development of recycling programs. While such action is encouraging, much work remains to be done in order to keep our environment clean and healthy.

. Page 12 <llilltfllrbirnsis ----Founded at Union College 1877- .......... ---- We Cared, Now It's Time to Act It was a delight to receive the letter from \We Care About U. (p.l3). A wave of activism swept the Union campus last spring, but now the tide is low. \We Care About U,\ the group formed last year to help make Union students inyolved in and aware of the important issues, has stepped forward at a time when it can be most effective. Even as the group was at its height of glory last spring, when it organized an all-campus rally held at Library Plaza, it was unclear what the future of the organization would be. The founders of \We Care About U\ have graduated, and there were questions as to whether they would take the spark with them. It seems more than coincidence that a group seeking to make constructive changes would rise as the school's administration was in transition. A new president who brings no preconceptions to his job should be a clear signal for opportunity to an organization like \We Care About U.\ Now, more than ever, is a time when Union students can have their voice heard and make a difference. There are plenty of issues to address. Admissions struggled to put a freshman class together and fell well short of its target number. How do Union students feel this problem should be rectified? The library is ill-equipped when compared to similar schools. Where should this rate among Union's priorities'? There continues to be a rift between Union College and the city of Schenectady. What should we do about this? A handful of students are pushing to make Union more environmentally conscious. Wouldn't this be something that \We Care About U\ might want to involve itself in? If \We care About U\ can apply some of the spirit and good intentions that it stirred last spring, it can make itself an effective and valuable group on campus. The time is now. A Land of Milk and Honey If the current Student Activities Budget is any indication, students around Union will be living high on the hog. The Budget is registering a surplus of over $30,000, and plans for the allocation of the money are as yet undetermined. It would be inappropriate to first not congratulate the Finance Committee of last year's Student Forum. The Committee albeit through budget cuts and unforeseen circimstances managed to turn a $40,000 deficit into an impressive surplus. Each activity's proposed budget met with close scrutiny from the Committee. Spending reductions deemed neceessary were then implemented and recorded. In addition to this somewhat usual process, the events of Spring Term also helped to create. such a strong surplus. The Measles Epidemic forced the cancellation of Ed Bradley's lecture as well as a concert by the Psychedelic Furs. The loss of these events alone created for the students a gain of over $10,000. These points draw a clear conclusion that the money is there ... waiting to be spent. The question remains then how to do just that. One suggestion which should be considered involves allotting the money on a fundraising-incentive basis. For example, up to a certain ceiling, the Committee could match dollar for dollar every dollar groups raise through fundraising campaigns. This would provide a great incentive to groups for earning the money they so much desire. At the same time, it saves the Finance Committee the hassle of deciding who actually deserves the money, and who does not. Scrutinizing activities' budgets is one way to add money to the pot, but it doesn't win votes. This year's Finance Committee faces a tough road ahead. The Budget surplus belongs to the students, and must be allocated accordingly. Being actively involved in the many activities Union offers its students is one of the best aspects of college life. By allocating the additonal money available, these activities could be enhanced greatly thereby allowing everybody to win in the end. CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 LETTERS Union Improvement Committee Invited to Get to the Bottom Line To the Editor: It has recently come to our attention that there is a new group fonning on campus: the Union Improvement Committee. Although it is not our intent to pass judgment with this letter, we like many others, seek to gain a greater insight into the purpose of the UIC. We are aware of the serous allegations made by the me against certain Greek and Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board All Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00p.m. on the Tuesday preceeding publication. Anonymous letters will not be accepted .. Concordiensis reserves the right to edit letters for length. non-Greek affiliated students and we feel that a group cannot make demands and expect them to be honored while remaining anonymous. The discussion of this Sunday night's \The Bottom Line\ will be the actions and purpose of this unknown organization. In order to be represented fairly, the UIC S'hould contact ''The Bottom Line\ and, in addition, be willing to discuss their plight on the air. Because it's Dont b\am~ me. l didnt ·mvade KuwaU ... been our practice to represent both sides of an issue whenever possible, we feel that the UIC's accusations cannot go uncontested. To contact us, please send a letter to the SAO (c/o WRUC, Bottom Line_ or Box 1346, or Box 1809. Sunday. 8.;9 p.m. WRUC 89.7 \Bottom Line\ co~hosts: Nat Keller '91 and Mark Richter '91 I ., l J

. Page 12 <!rilltfllrbirnsts ----Founded at Unimt Cof/ege 1877--- We It's Cared, Now Time to Act It was a delight to receive the letter from \We Care About U. (p.l3). A wave of activism swept the Union campus last spring, but now the tide is low. \We Care About U,\ the group formed last year to help make Union students involved in and aware of the important issues, has stepped forward at a time when it can be most effective. Even as the group was at its height of glory last spring, when it organized an all-campus rally held at Library Plaza, it was unclear what the future of the organization would be. The founders of \We Care About U\ have graduated, and there were questions as to whether they would take the spark with them. It seems more than coincidence that a group seeking to make constructive changes would rise as the school's administration was in transition. A new president who brings no preconceptions to his job should be a clear signal for opportunity to an organization like \We Care About U.\ Now, more than ever, is a time when Union students can have their voice heard and make a difference. There are plenty of issues to address. Admissions struggled to put a freshman class together and fell well short of its target number. How do Union students feel this problem should be rectified? The library is ill-equipped when compared to similar schools. Where should this rate among Union's priorities? There continues to be a rift between Union College and the city of Schenectady. What should we do about this? A handful of students are pushing to make Union more environmentally conscious. Wouldn't this be something that \We Care About U\ might want to involve itself in? If \We care About U\ can apply some of the spirit and good intentions that it stirred last spring, it can make itself an effective and valuable group on campus. The time is now. A Land of Milk and Honey If the current Student Activities Budget is any indication, students around Union will be living high on the hog. The Budget is registering a surplus of over $30,000, and plans for the allocation of the money are as yet undetcnnined. It v.:ould be inappropriate to first not congratulate the Finanl:c Committee of last year's Student Fontm. The Committee albeit through huuget n1ts and unforeseen circimstances managed to tum a $4().()()() deficit into an impressive surplus. Each artivi ty's proposed budget met v.ith do~e scrutiny from the Committee. Spending reductions deemed neceessary were then implemented and recorded. In addition to this somewhat usual process, the events of Spring Term also helped to create. such a strong surplus. The Measles Epidemic forced the cancellation of Ed Bradley's lecture as well as a concert by the Psychedelic Furs. The loss of these events alone created for the students a gain of over $10,000. These points draw a clear conclusion that the money is there ... waiting to be spent. The question remains then how to do just that. One suggestion which should be considered involves allotting the money on a fundraising-incentive basis. For example, up to a certain ceiling, the Committee could match dollar for dollar every dollar groups raise through fundraising campaigns. This would provide a great incentive to groups for earning the money they so much desire. At the same time, it saves the Fina11ce Committee the hassle of deciding who actually deserves the money, and who does not. Scrutinizing activities' budgets is one way to add money to the pot, but it doesn't win votes. This year's Finance Committee faces a tough road ahead. The Budget surplus belongs to the students, and must be allocated accordingly. Being actively involved in the many activities Union offers its students is one of the best aspects of college life. By allocating the additonal money available, these activities could be enhanced greatly thereby allowing everybody to win in the end. CONCORDIENSJS, October 4, 1990 LETTERS Union hnprovement Committee Invited to Get to the Bottom Line To the Editor: It has recently cmne to our attention that there is a new group fonning on campus: the Union Improvement Committee. Although it is not our intent to pass judgment with this letter, we like many others, seek to gain a greater insight into the purpose of the UIC. We are aware of the serous allegations made by the UIC against certain Greek and Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the . . optmons of the Editorial Board All Letters to the Editor must be typed, double spaced and submitted to the Concordiensis office by 4:00p.m. on the Tuesday preceeding publication. Anonymous letters will not be accepted. Concordiensis reserves the right to edit letters for length. non-Greek affiliated students and we feel that a group cannot Inake demands and expectthem to be honored while remaining anonymous. The discussion of this Sunday night's \The Bottom Line\ will be the actions and purpose of this unknown organization. In order to be represented fairly, the UIC should contact \The Bottom Line\ and, in addition, be willing to discuss their plight on the air. Beca1:1se tt's Dor.t blame me. t d\df\~, \nvade Ku~Ja\L. been our practice to represent both sides of an issue whenever possible, we feel that the UIC's accusations cannot go uncontested. To contact us, please send a letter to the SAO (c/o WRUC, Bottom Line_ or Box 1346, or Box 1809. Sunday, 8-9 p.m. WRUC 89.7 \Bottom LiRe\ co-hosts: Nat Keller '91 and Mark Richter '91 1 otl\'lt)l.D:r<V.tl. . fi ., {ttrutntr 0 ~ If mrnsts \'\t L~. Editors- in-Chief News Editor Associate News Editors Feature Editor :t._,.lCTA.'D'f 'tlo Andrew Seewald, Elise Foody International Features Editors Jay Freeland Tom Andruchow. Matt Lanni Suzanne Shaker Larae Tumidajewicz Jill Philipps Franz Litz, Bryan Pellerin, .Bryan Sherbacow Jason Mesbnick DesWatd Mi<Jhele Martin~ Larissa Lucas Andy Braver Allison Bowatd.j Mary :SllenWing Environmental Editors Cummootaries Page Editor Arts Editor Campus PageEditors Sports Editor Photography Editors Geneml Manager Advertising Editors · Cbel'i Yanofsky t.atttetAlessioiBOOky Barg . Associate Advertising 'E<Utots. Jennifer $httlkin..rtacfielTuck lAuren 'ycoff suzanne Glass · Thetesa('figtititti ·· ;p~,WilliamHu~tJey Business Manager Subscription Manager H<Jiloraty Faculty AdviS'Ot STAFF: Ores Barretti Charles ~eideni Amy Bmusis, Ron ,j Bitnbauro. Katen B\ltllsl Allison C.f$pst¢ltti iri~ Frank~ Joo .. } FtiWman, Carl R. Friediich~ lt-., .Jon Ht~nes;, K®etflilurwitz, · B:tik Kraft Meg P.atscns, Lisa Pifute-y; 'Font R.otko, Tom · Sanini. Sybil Zanger. · · ADVERtiSING STAFF: Melissa Klein~ Andrea R0gers. CONCORDlENSIS is published eit?;ht Thtttsdays a term by the student body of Union. College. Schenectady, New York 1:2308; Publications Office; Susqttehanna Publications; Inc.; Box 38$; Sidney~. New York 1383'8 (607) 563 .. 8339. SubscriptiOn tate: $3() per year. delivert{d anywhere in -me United $tatN. Man Sabsctiptiotrs to Ooli~ordieusis <>ffice, eotteg~~etttet, ... p~i()q Co1t,~~·::'C~tt~Ar~ie:~t$ .. s ·.· .. , .. ·. ·. to the Interctillegi~tt ·Press {IP). ·Office Telephone (518) 6155, Advertising Telephone (518) 37()..6494. .. •·· ··,·; .. ,,.-, •. ·.w,·\··:·'···' •.•.• -\· •.•.•·,·-··:•.·:<•• · •• ,·. ,,·;·, ,.,.,,., ?b •• • • \''' \'\ .... -~ .... ,, ··~·d \· ······· .... , ,,~-. .. .. - .. :

t ' CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS ''We Care Abo,ut U'' Help Us Care About U Open meeting this Friday at 12:30 :in College Center room 203. Call Pete Cowles (386-4400) for more info. WRuc·•s 70th An:niversary October 13, 9-12 p.m. Saturday Upperclass Dining Hall Party w/Homecoming Committee Dancing, Refreshments, Bar (21 or older)& Food Football Game Sunday, October 14, 8-9:30 p.m. Class of '21 will be doing a broadcast HAPPY BIRTHDAY WRUC! To the Union Community: }11e We Care About U group was formed last year to stimulate student participation on the Union College campus. There are many things available to get involved with at this school and in the past, a great number of students have chosen not to take an active t'<>le in their education. This apathetic attitude has plagued Union for several years and has weakened the student body as a whole. Last spring, the Union student body showed a glimmer of revitalization as student participation and concern for the college elevated considerably. The students are a major factor in determining the character of a school. We, as students can make a difference. but only if we apply ourselves. There are . many changes happening at Union right now and the students need to have an effect on how the school is going to be shaped. Get involved. Go to the Tutoring positions available! Three local schools have volunteer tutoring positions, as well as supervisory aid positions open to Union students. Look for us at the Student Activities Exposition on Thursday Oct. 4. In addition, a brief informational and scheduling meeting will be held on Monday, Oct. 8 at 7 p.m. in rm. 410 in the CC. If interested, contact Barbara Cash, Tutoring Coordinator at Box 279~or phone 386-4181 for more information. Thank You. Tenurability Review An ad hoc committee of the Faculty Review Board has been formed to investigate and to report on the tenurability of Associate Professor Laszlo Baksay, Physics Department. Any member of the Union community who wishes to provide information on his teaching, scholarly activities, or college service may submit written testimony to any member of the ad hoc committee. The committee members are Professors E. Hansen, History; C. Jones, Physics; F. Milillo, Mechanical Engineering; and W. Zwicker, Mathematics. Interviews may be arranged with Professor Zwicker, committee · chair (x6160). I • Student Activities Expo on Thursday from 1-4 p.m. Go to club meetings. If anyone is interested in discussing any current issues at school that have an effect on the student body, come share your ideas at the first We Care About U meeting on Friday, 10-5-90, at 12:30 in the College Center, Rm. 203. We will also be discussing the start of a recycling program. at the college that will affect the whole community. College is not a spectator sport. Make it happen' .:_we Care About U The Speakers Forum presents DAVID BROWN of the Cousteau Society \Threats to the Global Ocean\ HOMECOMING WEEKEND Friday, October 12 8 p.m. Memorial Chapel Bee Gee Shrimp Platter w/fries friday Special Only (5.75 Value) We Know What You Like! . ·I· '• ,... . ' ' ' . ''!' .,, '.'; ' I'. II ,.. I ' ' •. , . . • \ l' ,.,, •. ''I '''[I[! (1 lfll ' I ! t • 1 ~ \'~ ' r 1 , ' 1 l • l ' • 1 , J. ' . 1 ' t 1 I • . ' I ' : 1 ' ' I\ I I ' • I ' I J ' I I I ' ! I I ' I I ' ' I I , • l L I ,! I • 'lo • • <I • l '\ • ot 1 • l I j I 1 , I I J''! d ~

CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS ''We Care About U'' Help Us Care About U Open meeting this Friday at 12:30 in College Center room 263. Call Pete Cowles (386 .. 4400) for more info. WRUC's 70th Anniversary October 13, 9-12 p.m. Saturday Upperclass Dining Hall Party w/Homecoming Committee Dancing, Refreshments, Bar (21 or older}& Food Football Game Sunday, October 14, 8-9:30 p.m. Class of '21 will be doing a broadcast HAPPY BIRTHDAY WRUC! Career Planning The Career Planning & Placement Office has available to students at no cost, copies of the Wall Street Journal's College edition of MANAGING YOUR CAREER containing for the first time, a High Tech Supplement. Specifically published for Engineering,. Computer Science, Math and other High Tech majors:- the supplement covers a range of su~jects from j.ob hunting to career management. Included are topics such as \New Technical Disciplines u, '!Choosing Between a Large and Small Company\ and a special \Hiring Outlook\. Yo11 may obtain your free copy at the Career Planning & Placement office as well as other High Tech academic offices. Quantities are limited and will be avm.laible October 25th. To the Union Community: The We Care About U group was formed last year to stimmlate student participation on the Union College campus. There are many things available to get involved with at this school ancl in the past, a great number of students have chosen not to take an active role in their education. This apathetic attitude has plagued Union for several years and has weakened the student body as a whole. Last spring, the Union student body showed a glimmer of revitalization as student participation and concern for the college elevated considerably. The students are a major factor in detcnnining the character of a school. We, as students can make a difference, but ordy if we apply ourselves. There are many changes happening at Union right now and the students need to have an effect on how the school is going to be shaped. Get involved. Go to the Tutoring positions available! Three local schools have volunteer tutoring positions, as well as supervisory aid positions op-en to Union students. Look for us at the Student Activities Exposition on Thursday Oct. 4. In addition, a brief informational and scheduling meeting will be held on Monday, Oct. 8 at 7 p.m. in rm. 410 in the CC. If interested, contact Barbara Cash, Tutoring Coordinator at Box 279 or phone 386-4181 for more information. Thank You. Tenurability Review An ad hoc committee of the Faculty Review Board has been formed to investigate and to report on the tenurability of Associate Professor Laszlo Baksay, Physics Department. Any member of the Union community who wishes to pmvide in.fonnation on his teaching, scholarly activities, or C()llege service may submit written testimony to any member of the ad hoc committee. The committee members are Professors E. Hansen, History; C. Jones, Physics; F. Milillo, Mechanical Engineering; and W. Zwicker, Mathematics. Interviews may be arranged with Professor Zwicker, committee cltair (x6160). Student Activities Expo on Thursday from 1-4 p.m. Go to clllb meetings. If anyone is interested in discllssing any current issues at school that have an effect on the student body, come share your ideas at the first We Care About U meeting on Friday, 10-5-90, at 12:30 in the College Center, Rm. 203. We will also be discussing the start of a recycling program at the college that will affect the whole community. College is not a spectator sport. Make it happen! -We Care About U The Speakers Forunz presents DAVID BROWN of the Cousteau Society \Threats to the Global OlCean pp HOMECOI\1ING WEEKEND Friday t October 12 8 p.m. Memorial Chape I Bee Gee Shrimp Platter w/fries friday Special Only 1. (5.15 Value) We Know What You Like! 'li'··ll·'~,.·l,'I'J,•·\l''~''' -·~-'~-·. 'II•' ',l\'\l ''j\••' I '\I ·,!,'',_'f..:-. ~~·-\llf • I llj' 'l' ' ~I I )I ~ ' • • • ' • ' I I l iII . 1 I • ' , .. ~ \'' . . I ''I . I ' ' . • I • J :. ' ' •! •'J • ' ' • • ' •I. ' I' . I I • ' I J ' I • ~-. ' • • :' ' •• 1 ' I I . I I j ; ' j l , ' ' . ': ' , I ' ' ' , . . . , , r ·Ill . .; I' '' ' ! ' . , . , . . Ill ' I' '.\ q 'f 'I ''\ jt !II li~ -· • I . • ' • • •• . •''• ••• \. i· tl< IJ,d·t' 'tf! d'tl l ·,. ,; • ' '' I' ·~~· •lt l

I ~ ' ~ • I / • ~ • ·. '' ' ' . ' : Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Better Than Bran - The WRUC Record R~eviews By RON EUGENIO Soul Asylum - Sou I Asylum and the Horse They Rode in On (A&M) Soul Asylum has always had a sound not unlike· a pair of oil-stained jeans; comfortable, straight out of the garage, and normally aimed at other people in oil stained jeans. The Smithereens without their quaint pop hooks. A sot~nd like that is hard to ignore, but easy to imitate. After four albums, though, the band has finally locked on to their personal groove, and throughout the album it seems that they are holding on to it witb both hands. Even though they rec<Jrded this is Los Angeles, it's easy to pick up influences from their hometown of Minneapolis. In the middle of the first song \Spinin\, the hand hits a quick stop-and-:go coda reminiscent of Husker Du. and on \Gullible's Travels\ guitarist Dave Pirtler hits a chilHng guitar scale bridge previously seen on The Replacement's \The Ledge\ , \Bitter Pm\ and \All The King's Friends\ feature a wailing V()ice, guitar crunching chords, an.d an energy level high eno11gh to hold back wild horses. ridden on or otheiWise. If you scan the album's credits, ycu'll notice the entire alb_um was tracked live; in other w<Jrds, they played all of their songs live in the studio. So even if they use backing tapers in concert, be assured that the audience will be getting a live performance. The Pixies - Bossanova (Elektra) I'm coming right out and saying it. Bossa nova is really disappointing. Without Cheap, yet appreciated. Send someo~ne a p_ersonal! Just 50¢, Available in the Information Booth. Union College hosts Living With AIDS The Fourth Annual AIDS Awareness Week A series of lectures, workshGps and commu11ity events on the Union campus a11d other S«henectady lacatiol'ls Sunday, Nov. 4 through Friday, Nov. 9 mincing words, the Pixies were surprised by the much-deserved praise for last year's doolittle, went back into the studio, and created a lovely simulacrum that could have been titled doolittle II. Maybe this is a little demanding, but the Pixies have always done well in spontaneous change, changing tones and rhythms like so many spinning firecrackers. Change and diversity is what makes this band great, and even Get ready for _HOME COMING Next Weekend though a retread of an excellent album isn't as bad as another Loverboy album. it's frustrating to see a band that can soar grounded for no app~nt reason. Produced by Gil Norton (wbo also produced do(Jiittle)., Bossanova has a co11:pie of redeeming qualities. \Dis Fc:lr Fire\ has some mean gui t~u work from Joey Santiago. \Hang Wire 11 delivers the album's title-· \Every mel'lling and every ~day/l'll bossanova with you \-as well as a rugged layering of sound like last year's \Debaser\, but most imJX>rtantly, the Pixies have one of the best bassists in underground music. Kim Deal throbs true with catchy bass lines probably picked up during her stint with the Breeders. As it rStandS. though, it could be better .. :perhaps this can be considered a lapse between genius .. Or, if you want, you can buy this and make them even richer. All creatures must ~know their hab.itat. The Environmental Pages. Week. Every In Concordiensis. HEY Sign up \U\ now! for Delta Delta Delta's 8th Annual 5K Road Race ... to benefit Children's Cancer Sunday, October 7th at 1:30 pm Schenectady's Central Park -REFRESHMENTS & PRIZES- Registration in College Center and West : $5.00 T -Shirts $8.00 *or both for $10.00 Walk it. Bike it. Run it. JUST DO IT!0

CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~:+KNICKERBOCKER ARENA . (S1£ KNICKERSOCKER ARENA M.C. Hammer/Speclai·Guest En Vogue 10/14, WWFWrestling 10/26, Bad Company(Damn Yankees 10/27, Ice Capades 1111-11 SCALLEN * c!lt TOM .(2 {)PAD1S NA>TIONAL PROFESSIONAL SOCCER LEAGUE New ,York Kick vs. * Illinois Thunder 11 j4, Detroit Rockers 11/6, Canton Invaders ~ 11/21, 2/20, Dayton Dynamo 12/6. Chicago Power 12/11, Detroir Rockers 12/22, Hershey Impact 12/23, 3/17 Hershey Impact EXHIBITION NBA :flew YorkKnicks vs. Philadelphia T6ers 10/17, Minnesota Timberwolves vs. New Jersey Nets 10/24 SIENA BASKETBALL Siena vs. Pittsburgh 11/28, Evansville 1/2. Creighton 2/3 ·~·TICKET CENTERS IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT • CAPITJI.L·DISTRICT: ALBANY, Letdera VldBQ, 1796 Westam Avo.; Wur1d Rou:ordo, 132 Central Ave.; BURNT HILLS, Loedert Video, 812 Saratoga Road; CLIFTON PARK, LHdors Vldou, Fire Rd. Plaza; COBLESKILL, LINdtrs Vi<leo, Shoppers Mart; COLONIE, Recc>rd Town, 20 Wolf Rd.; DELMAR,'Leedttra Video, 340 Oelware 1\ve.: EAST GREENBUSH, Recordo & Such, Shop & Save Plaza: HUDSON,-VIdeo Cove, James way Plaza; NISKAYUNA, Leedera Vldou, 1721 Un1on St.; ROlTERDAM,.Lteden Video, 1822 Altamont Avec; SCHENE'.TADY, Drome Sound, 3486 State St.: Lttedera Video, 129 Canal Square; TliOY, Rainbow VIdeo, 156 4th Strll<lt. . CALL.-F·OJI-TIX (518) 4 76-1'000 Solution to \Columbus Discovery\ ...---T-T-.-S--.-A....., A I D. E S _P_,__R-r--A-.-G__, 0 S 0 l E A R B I s E E A p E N A v E R E l E A s I s Columbus' Discovery: \It's a Small World After All\ Be a Junior Achievement Volunter Information session: Wed., Oct. 10 3:30 - SS103 Refreshments Served Sponsored by Economics Club An Introduction to \Romero\ By DANIEL J. KENIRY Since the time of the Spanish-American War. the United States has had an interest in human rights in Latin America. The West was to be our hemisphere; it seemed necessary to justify U.S. strategic and economic concerns in humanitarian terms. This remains true for our policies in the area today. Moreover, the influence of the Catholic Church in this :region in politics has raised questions. Divisive debates involving church doctrine are also at issue. Next week the Newman Club will present a film that spotlights these and other issues. \Romero\ is a film about Oscar Arnulfo Romero, an Archbishop in El Salvador who was murdered while celebrating mass in 1980. The film is a semi-biographical drama about the personal development of .t\rchbishop Romero and his activities and statements on behalf of human rights and economic justice in that country. It was directed by John Duigan, an Australian, and produced by the Paulist Fathers. The 1989 film features Raul Julia as Archbishop Romero. The film addresses the issue of the Roman Catholic Church's role in Latin American politics. Romero was appointed in 1977 and was initially thought to be rath.er conservative. He soon became one of the most active and outspoken dissidents against the government of Carlos Humberto Romero {no rela~ion), which was overthrown in the fall of 1979. The Archbishop supported the new military junta government at frrst, but soon turned against them. In 1979, Romero was nominated for a Nobel Peace Prize. In February 1~80, dynamite was discovered on ~the altar before he said mass. And on March 24, 1980, he was murdered in San Salvador. A memorial service for him several days later turned bloody and 35 people were killed. El Salvador plunged into a civil war from which it has not yet emerged The theological debate revolves around \liberation theology,\ in which a communal approach to faith is stressed and the church identifies itself with the poor, and hence, a particular political movement. This is extremely controversial inside the region and elsewhere. Rome objects as liberation theology challenges its central authority over doctrinal matters and because it involves the church in explicit political initiatives. Romero's five colleagues in El Salvador strongly opposed his activities against the government. These conflicts rage on today, as El Salvador moves no closer to peace. The killing of six Jesuit priests and two of their co- workers in November 1989 is evidence that the church in that country remains in the middle of the conflict Human rights in the area continues to be of concem to the U.S. As Congress considers continued military aid to the government of El Salvador, some are urging that our aid be cut substantially until the government makes more progress on human rights. America must balance her noble humanitarian interests with proper strategic and economic concerns, they argue. Leaving the politics aside, \Romero\ is a compelling story of one man's struggle with his conscience. His personal development as an activist priest is the main subject of the film. In an interview one year before his death, Romero said, \What sustains me in the struggle is my love for God, my desire to be faithful to the Gospels, and my love for the Salvadoran people- particularly the poor.\ The Newman Club cordially invites the campus to the screening of \Romero\ at 5:30 on Tuesday, October 9 in the 4th floor lounge of the College Center. Half Moon Cafe • Late Sept. & Oct. 1990 154 Madison • Albany • Open 11 to 11 Everyday • All Events: 7 p.m. Natural Foods • Grocerie~ • Gifts • Music • Art • Poetry • Politics • Etc. Thurs., Oct. 4 o Paul Supple Jazz Band • Paul on Trumpet, John Deignan on Guitar & Mike Rose on Piano. Bebob, Swing & Jazz, Standards. Hot New Trio Here Every Other Thursday. Friday, Oct. 5 • Art Opening: Greg Poole & Sylvia Aronson. Jazz by Cygnus. Sat., Oct. 6 • Jim Gaudet • Very Personable Entertainer. Intelligent Accessible Lyrics. Sun. Oct. 7 • 11 a.m. - 2 p.m. Jazz Plano Brunch with Lloyd Henderson. The man with the magic touch. 8 p:m. Kuru • One of the Hottest Bands in Town. Beth, Paul, Ted, & Mark, Gary & Mike. Also Oct. 28. Mon., Oct. 8 • The Buck Sliver All Stars • A new confabulation by Chris O'Leary & Friends (John, Cliff, Luanne & Kirsten. Rock & Blues, Dylan & The Dead, Heart & Soul, what more could you want? Tues. Oct. 9 • Open Jam • Every Tuesday. Come on down. Wed., Oct. 10 • Frank Jaklltsch • The Happy Folk singer. All the great tunes from 50's to 70's. Student Adivities Exposition · A CHANCE TO GET INVOLVED The Student Activities Exposition is held annually and offers every . opportunity for you to loin a club. Take advantage of this wonderful way to work with your peen and enloy your four years at Union College. At this expoaltlon, you will also be able to talk with the student leaden of each club, sign a lilt to attend a meeting, and give input. Check your Freshman record or Student Handbook to see what clubs are available. for further Information, watch for posten or check with the Student Activities Office, 408 College Center or call ext. 6118. Date: October 4 troday • Thunday) Ralndat•c October 5 · (Friday) Place: College Center - Front Entrance Time: .1-4 p.m. Union College Has Nluch to ORer. See You 'lherelll • • • 1ree food Ill Would You Like To Learn How To Meditate? Meditation reduces stress and improves concentration. MEDITATION STUDY GROUP EVERY THURSDAY AT 4 PM IN COLLEGE CENTER 410 Beginners are welcome any time during the term. Instructions on how to meditate are given at the start of every meeting. ~ .. ._ ... r 0 0 ., • .0 - ~ .,_ ... \' .00 .. ...,_ ... - ..... ao- .- .... - - ..... • .. - oO • .. ~· .. .., ... '• .., - ..

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT HOROSCOPES The Movie Review BY RAPHAEL BOUDJUANA LIBRAS: T~is week should be one of e:xtravagmce: Explore new boundaries and overcome inhibitions. SCORPIO: Your hard work during the past few weeks will begin to p~y <>ff. You have an admirer who wants to get to know you better -.look for subtle signs. SAGITTARIUS: Old friends/lovers are in your future. Welcome them with memories of the past. CAPRICORN: Soon you will be confronted with a relationship! Go for it! Do not be afraid or listen to others - only you can decide. AQUARIUS: 3rd and 4th weeks for you are for studying. If you find sexual frustration interfering with your work; don't forget about the typing rooms. PISCES: C()nsider a new relation.ship, maybe at another school. This one just isn't the right one. ARIES: Y()u can't solve your problems with alcohol. Sober up and be d:irect. That special person wants to meet the real you. TAURUS: Keep up the good work. Y ()Ur academic and social life are in alignment. Good grades and beautiful relationships are written. GEMINI: A secure financial settlement is in fmnt of you. Jobs and a successful friendship will occur 1his weekend. CANCER: The LSATs are over on Saturday. Go crazy! LEO: Sex, Sex, Sex! That's all you'll be thinking of: Try to focus your ene':\_gy on the right person - But don't be pushy! VIRGO: Y ()U and your friends have jumped a big hurdle this week. Settle down and begin to study. By JASON J. LA WIT and TOM ROTKO America has always had a fascination with life in the Mafia. Since the days of prohibition,. Hollywood has attempted to capture this love affair on ihe silver screen. Portrayals of these extended families has ranged from the epic to the seedy. The most recent examination of life in the Mob comes from acclaimed director Martin Scorsese. Scorsese's interest in the Mafia dates back to his directorial debut with Mean Streets in 1973. His latest film in the genre is Goodfellas. GoodfeUas is based on the 1983 book \Wiseguy\ by Nicholas Pellegi. Centered on Henry Hill, Goodfellas depicts life in the Mob over three decades. Scorsese follows Hill's meteoric rise within the family and the ensuing conflicts which he must face. Ray Liotta (Dominick and Eugene, Field of Dreams) protrays Henry Hill. Liotta's performance does nothing to detract from the film. At times, his work even borders on excellence. Liotta is at his peak when conveying the boyish charm Hill possesses amongst thugs and thieves. However, Liotta does have some difficulty executing the emotionally charged scenes Campus Movie Jr®~]])&!® 00 D1l tl&IID. tl Nfim~!l irUlllftlll®~ rfflilw P!kJ@@fk@ffiKiJ ~0~0 j;jfYXi}lJr!@u6[Jf][ffff) The Environmental pages. This week and every week in Concordiensis. Make sure you read them, because this land is your land. with his wife, played by Lorraine Bracco. Bracco is stunni11g as Karen Hill, Henry's wife. Her evolution as a character, from Long Island Princessa to cocaine conspirat()r, is pulled off effmtlessly. At no .point does the audience doubt this transiticn. Her character is refreshmgly genuine. refusing to lay back and become another mindless cog in the Mafia machine. Where Liotta falters, she exc:ells. Unfortunately for Liotta, bis performance, althougl1 by no means shoddy, is overwhelmed by Bracco and other man characters. Perhaps the brightest role in the film is Joe Pesci. Most recently, Pesci charmed audiences as an anal~retentive accountaJlt in L e t h a I Weapo11 11. In Goodfellas, Pesci plays Tommy De Vito, a charmiag psychotic. Pesci manages to steal nearly every moment he is on the screen. He coerces the audience into liking aJld even cheering for an utterly revolting character. Pesci also brings a sadisticly comedic element into the picture, often leaving the audience caught between outrage alld humor. While Pesci was the scene stealer, Robert DeNiro solidifieci his reputation as the premiere actor of the last 15 years. DeNiro is so convincing as Jimmy \the Jet\ Conway, he leaves ·the audience wondering if he :has ever played another role. A.lthough outside the family, DeNiro encompasses many of the attributes the Mafia cultivates. He is uncontrcllably violent, unquestionably .generous,a nd undeniably self-interested. Conway wo\Qld just as soon introduce a doorman to a Franklin, as slit his throat to cover his tracks. Scorsese expertly extracts these qualities from DeNiro, as he has in previous films (Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, and The King CJf Comedy). He engineers the infrastructure of relationships beautifully. Each alliance s·eerns unique, yet every one adheres to the unwritten mles of life in the Maf:aa. The vi()lence at times is graphic, but it is not gratuitous. Scorsese utilizes mob savagry to create a paradox against the docile family life the Mafia wishes to present. Overall, the movie is spectacular without significant blemish. Do11't wait until videotape, you'll want to be familiar with this film come Oscar time. Goodfellas Producer: Irwin Winkler Director: Martin Scorsese Screenplay: Nicholas Pellegi and Martin S corsese Starring: Robert DeNiro, Ray Liotta, Joe Pesci, and Lorraine Bracco Rating: 4.99999 (out of 5.0) The Activities Fair is this afternoon. 1 ... 4 PM in front of the College Center. Don't 1niss it. Pep Band Last Rehearsal before Homecoming We will be playins on Wednesday, October 10 Q,.,turdav, October 13 7:30PM ~ 'J• cc 302 for the 'QPI &amel New members always welcome. 5:30-7:40-9 50 (R) 4:40-7:10-9 40 (R) 5:2().7:20·9 35 (R) 4:50-7-9:25 (R) 6-a-10 (R) 5:30-7:45-9:50 !I'G13) ~~,'lmViMII 37(}1920 AL A . SCHENECTADY POSTC\IIDS FROM llfE EllGE 5:10-7:20-9:30 (R) GHOST 4:45-7:10-9:40 tPG13~ Gc'JOO FELUS &-8 [R) JUNGLE BOlli< 5:30 !6) HAROVIARE . 7:30-9:55 !A) FUNN't' ABOUT LOVE 5:30·7:40-9.45 {PG13! I COMll~ PE4.,9E 6-S-10 (R) 'CROSSGATES' 12 · · CROSSGATES MALL . . 456-5678 : H.O.RDWARE 1 :15-3:55· 7:25·10:DS FLATLINERS 1: IG-3:50· 7:00·9:50 DEATli WARRANT 110-4:00·7:15·10:10 GOODFELLAS 1:2:30-):30·6:45·10:00 I COME IN PEACE 1~5-4:05· 720·9:55 NARROW MARGIN 1:05-):45· 7: 1Cl-9:45 POSTCARDS FROM TtiE EDGE 1:00-3:4Cl-7:05·9:40 . FUNNY A.BOUT LOVE 12:~5-3:25·6:50-<>-15 GHOST 1~.35·3:20·6:~0-9:3<> PACIFIC HEIGHTS 12:5<1· 3: ·I 5:6:55-9:35 PRESUNEDINNOCENT 12:40·3 35-10·05 Y'OUNG GUNS 2 1245:3.10·6:35-10·15

Campus Protestant Ministry , World Communion Sunday Service Sunday, October 7th 7:30P.M. ......... ' CONCORDfENSIS, October 4, 1990 3.5 inch Discs For Sale $1.50 Each Beat The Bookstore Support Union CoUege A.C.M. Now Available In: Student Consultant Desk Steinmetz 102 AUDITIONS for The College Center Dramatic Reading Series Page 17 Old Chapel \The :Bot:t:om Line\ Invites the U~ij@ITU ~[rlf1Jip.l!T©~®~~I1llft C©mm ij~~®~ To Speak Out on theAk AIDS Awareness Week production of or Not to Speak At AU!!! Sunday 8-9 pm WRUC 89.7 \Bottom Line\ co-hosts: Mark Richter Nat Keller HOMECOMING '90 Final General Meeting We hope to see everyone who was at the 1st meeting, and) any interested newcomers. Wednesday, October 10 4:00pm CC 410 (free food too!) LA RONDE (a play about sex) to be performed Nov. 7th in the New Cabaret ALL ARE WELCOME No experience necessary Thursday, Oct.· 4, 5:00p.m CC409 Work at the Dutch Hollow Pizza Pub Prime shifts available, earn while you learn, eat for free! Apply in person at the Dutch Hollow Res1auran1. '(\- . ,...,. ...

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS CLASSIFIEDS Always listen to WRUC Schenectady 89.7 FM! WRUC!!!! · I bring you your hot tea - I make you dinner - i • HOMECOMING is COMING! Des, We all love you. And your horoscope will be great! ! ! WRUC!!!! I'm your boyfriend - · and what do I get? I get SLAPPED ! ! ! Ca and Erica,- We rriiss you! Live it up! Cat Delta Gamma Sisters: Caribbean trip by National Science Foundation, 2-6 credits from N.C. State U., 1-2 weeks in Dec., May or August, Call Prof. Kimberly (919) 737- 7831. Come Celebrate WRUC's 70th Anniversary on October 13,9- 12 p.m. Party with homecoming committee, upperclass dining hall. Dancing, refreshments, food and bar (21 and older). Spline - Keep Your Low-Grade Toiletries Off My Left! Woodly- Good Luck on LSAT's! Sa.me' to Jason, Tom, and Wendyl , Love, Beck:y i Thank you so much for making me feel at home after my year away. You guys are great! M.M.M. Happy 21 !!! We Love You. I.T.B., Laura Free Spring Break Trips to Cancun and the Bahamas. Organize a small group and you travel free. Call 1 (800) 344-8360 for more information. M.L. & L.L. R,_ub_e_s_® _________ B_y~L_e~ig~h __ R_u_b~in,-------------------------~ Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested in earning $500 to $1 ,000 one- week, on-campus marketing . project? You must be well- organized and hard working. Call Elizabeth U. at (800) 592- 2121. Student Job (Off Campus) - need occasional child care for 21 month old girl and 4 year old son. $4/hr. flexible schedule. Glenville area. Prefer own transportation, contact 399-2807. Des- The other night was amazing. I hope we can do it again soon. Your Secret Admirer WRUC - 70 Years of alternative sound! WRUC - The first station in the nation 70 years ago. Good Luck Deltas taking LSA T' s. We'll toast yo1:1 Saturday Night! Brand- When are you going to make me goulash? See you at the gym! B. B. Addressers Wanted Immediately! No experience necessary, excellent pay! Work at home. Call Toll Free 1-800- 395-3283. Delta Gamma- ==========~!! Get psyched for Saturday's hay ride. PERSONALS Roses are red Violets are blue You once were young But now you're twenty-two! Happy Birthday, Gordon! How many cows are in Vem1ont anyway, Dave? WRUC!!! Mishi L- -Jill Seth and Jen are no longer. Karen- I am going to become a schizoid! Where are you? Don't forget no superficiality! Love, Doogs 714 Union- You guys are the best! I'm psyched to be back here with you! Sorry about being a stress monster! Love, Beck / .· Good Luck on the LSA T's - I know you'll get a 45. We Love You! Michele & Larissa F.- Is it time for aerobics soon? -L. \True spiritual freedom can only be obtained when we transcend the desire for material possessions. Well, according to my 24 karat, jewel-encrusted Aolex, our time is up for today.\ WRUC 70 Years ! ! THIS WEEK IN THE COLLEGE CENTER Thursday, October 4, 1990 8:00AM CCAUD Astronomers Mtg. 12:30 PM CC203 Minerva Hour Guenther Roth: \ ... Gender Equality\ 1:OOPM Outside CC Student Activities Expo 7:30PM CC203 Geology & Outing Club Mtg. Friday, October 5, 1990 6:00PM 1:30PM 4:00PM 8:30PM 8:00AM CC11 0 Astronomers Mtg. 6:00PM 9:00AM CC409 Writing for Professionals 4:00PM 7,9,11 PM CCAUD Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles 9:00PM UCDH MASS party 2:00AM Saturday, October 6, 1990 7,9,11 CCAUD Teenage Mu.tant Ninja Turtles Sunday, October 7, 1990 7,9,11 CCAUD Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles Monday October B, 1990 11 :30AM Mock OWl Crash 1:30PM 7:30PM CC205 SPAA Mtg. 8:30PM 7:30PM CC406 Modern La11guage Film Series iO:OOPM Tuesday, October 9, 1990 12:20PM CC203 Freshman Prec::ept Lunch 7:00PM CCAUD English Depar1rr~ent Film 7:30PM CC204 Idol Mtg. Wednesday, October 10, 1990 7:30 & 9:30 CCAUD Movie: Tl)p Secret Thursday, October 11,1990 1:45PM 9:30PM 9:30PM 1 0:30AM CCAUD Minerva Hour 1:OOPM Mansour Farhang.: ..... U.S. Iranian Relations\ 3:00PM CC204 Big Bros./ B i(J Sisters Mtg. 5:00PM 8:00PM CCAUD Shakespear-e S~ries: 1 O:OOPM Annabell Paterson College Center notes: Come to The Student Activities Exposition today, 1 - 4ptn , outside the CC. Construction in the new Cabaret is progressing. Watch for our Grand Opening on Oct. 11th. Please help us recycle deposit bottles & cans at our container at the DH~ disll return window. I

I CONCORJ)JENSIS, October 4, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS PERSONALS I Said, I Don't Sell Glass! ToourTTA: Keep up your great spirit, you're almost there. Love, the Sisters Weekly Crossword \COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 BEGINNING OF COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY 5 Assistants 10 Prague to Berliner 14 Spoken 15 COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY CONTINUED 47 RDme's fountain 50 Inside story. 51 COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY CONCLUDED 54 Twa parts 57 Peter Pan's pirate 56 Mocker 21 Battery terminal Dawn- Only a little while longer. We love y()u! I Men's Rugby takes first game I of the se. ason! Film at 11. 16 Part lor an actor 17 Columbus' ship 18 Hard to please 20 Rummy 51 Year In Paris tiB Resurface ~1 Sis antl Unc 62 Wild animal 63 Car lot words 24 Combining form meaning skin. 25 Subway charges 21 Cribbage pieces 22 Dark 23 Fawn over 25 Discharge 27 Ms. Mason 29 Willie loman's occupation 33 \Do I dare?\ and, \Do_ _?\:Love Son!J of J. Allred Prufrock 34 COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY CONTINUED 35 Poet's word 36 Standard 26 Ailments 27 Columbus' ship DDWN 1 Electrically charged particles Z Kingston_ l Columbus' ship 4- Chicken _king 5 Ad astra per_: Kansas motto li Picture 7 Women's orgs. a .. Benny and the Jets\ by on John 9 Precedes \VER\: Splinter 111 Dried plums 28 Garnish 29 Wounds 34 Telegrarns 37 To iniliate into the fraternity 38 Gratis 40 Skeptic 48 Mature 49 Donkey in Berlin 50 New York State college 52 _ Strauss: Developer of 37 Human Resource Director's function 38 \One _ over the Cuckoo's nest\ 39 Three prefix 40 Troubles 11 Hot dog holder 12 Soviet mountain range 13 Ms. Stein 30 \Days of our lives\ an~ \Perils of Pauline\ e; 31 Boston Garden, eg 41 Division word 43 Romeo and Juliet, eg 44 Counterbalance 46 Ms. Bancroft and others 47 SklliH Blue Jeans 53 Ms. Grant and Mr. Marvin 55 Bar bill 56 SuHix 19 \Nord with ham or tobacco 32 Gossipy 57 Saratoga, eg 41 Presses COLUMBUS' DISCOVERY: 42 Dissects .. \ 44 \Take life at a time\ 45 Dollar bills (4) (1) (2) (3) (15) ----- (34) (46) 46 COLUMBUS' DISCBVERY CONTINUED ©1990 GFR Associates AI.I Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 (51) (52)(53) 10/90 ~HEY Sign up ''U'' now! for Delta Delta Delta's 8th Annual 5K Road Race ... to bene_fit Children's Cancer Sunday, October 7th at 1:30 pm Schenectady's Central Park -REFRESHMENTS &PRIZES- Registration in College Center and West · $5.00 T -Shirts $8.00 *or both for $10.00 Walk it Bike it. Run it. JUST DO IT!o ' THE JOB FOR YOU. The Peace Corps is an exhilarating two year ex- perience that will last a lifetime. Working at a professional level that ordinarily might take years of apprenticeship back home, volunteers find the career growth they're looking for and .enjoy a unique experience in the developing world. International firms and government agencies value the skills and knowledge mastered during Peace Corps service. RECRUITERS ON CAMPUS NEXT WEEK Information Session and Film Showing Wednesday, October 10, 1990 7:00 pm - 9:00 pm College Center - Room 409 Visit the Peace Corps Booth at the12th Annual Career Festival Wednesday, October 10, 1990 12:00 am-4:00pm On-campus Interviews held Friday, October i 9 Peace Corps The Toughest Job You II Ever Love Page 19 M.M. · Happy 21st. I hope you allowed yourself to indulge on your Birthday.?! Love Always, S.S. WRUC- Schenectady's Last Hope! GRIZZ- Since yGU never gave me a Personal<, I'll give you one. P.S. You can't do crossword puzzles worth ... -959 Happy 21st V.R.S. W.B. ! Love, The Gang Don't forget Escort 6386. -P.F. A void the Dark . . . . -P.F. Dot- you can get changed in the garage- the hot tub is lonely! See you at the Red Light! Love, Shirley Missy, I'm glad you came to Union. Good Luck! Luv, T. To the Hostess, the Data Processor, and the Reservation Maker: Fortunately we won't be returning to those \places of summer employment\ too, soon and we're already begun a fab year together(?). I love you guys alld here's to a great year. Don't forget the champagne! Love from your roomie, The BBQ Queen Dr. Diane- Good Luck with all your interviews! Love, your roomies EVEREODY: Sign up for the Delta Delta Delta SK Run. Sunday October 7, 1:30 p.rn. to benefit Childrell's Cancer. Deltas- Get psyched for Saturday night and tbe SK run! Dear Joe, It's been a long 8 weeks. I'm so gl~d you are back at Union - Where you belong! Love Sue Mary- Don't do anything I wouldn't do. Miss You. Cat When you give blood you give anotherb~ another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. +

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, Octobel' 4, 1990 0J11nrorbirnsts SPORTS UNION FOOTBALL STATISTICS 1990 Un·i-on Coll:ege Dutchmen CUMULATIVE FOOTBALL STAT! STICS 4 GAME TOT~LS TEA~1 STATISTICS GAME-BY-GAME RESULTS Gl OATE 1 09/08 2 9/15 OPPONEr-IT SCORE 28- 7 lol 20-2 7 L 59-10 w 10- 0 w ATTENDANCE 4,400 SITE II A OVE•RALL RECORD 1- 0- 0 CONfERENCE RECORD 1- 0· 0 3 9/22 4 9/29 St. Lawrence Rochester Hobart Al'bany 3. 416 3,700 3,100 H A 1- I· 0 1- 1- b 2- 1- 0 2- 1- 0 3- 1- 0 3- 1- 0 Overall R·ecord: 3-1.0 Conference: 3 • 1 • 0· Home: 2 •. o • 0 Awa)l: I - 1 - 0 lleutral: 0 - 0 - 0 Overall Attendance: 14616 14616 8100 651-6 0 Over a 11 A~er age: 3654 36•54 4050 3258 Conference Attendance: Conference Average: Home Attendance: Home AveNge: Away Attendance: Away Average : Neuto-al Attendance: Neutral Average: D SCORE BY QUARTERS Dutchmen Opponent Totals NET PUNTING Dutchmen Opponent Totals RUSHING Alex Felipe, TB Vlad Telemaque, ·RB To11 Lombardont, F 8 Brett Russ, QB Chad Labonte Matt Decker, RB Dave flynn, RB R\ch Carter. RB Kevin HcLoughll n, FB Brl•n Harrl>, 08 Scott Gomes, RB Team Dutchmen Opponent Tot a Is PASSING Brett Russ, 1!8 6r1an Harris, QO MJrk C~llahan, WR Dutchmen Opponent Totals lST 21 13 PUNTS 15 28 AVG. 5.3 3.3 YARDS 509 8'61 2ND 38 6 AVG. 9. 5 1. 5 HALF AVG. 14.8 4.8 AVG. 33.9 30.8 OP l' RETURNS 7 16 3RD 44 8 WG. ll.O 2.0 4TH 14 17 OPP RET URN YARDS 41 13 2 lfiDIVIDUAl PLAYER STATISTICS AVS. 3.5 4.3 HALF .AVG. 14.5 6.3 OPP RETURN AVG. 5.9 8.3 s. o. 0 0 TOTAL 117 44 NET AVG. 31.2 26.0 GAME AVG. 29.3 11.0 G/GS 41 z 4/ 2 4/ 4 41 4 II 0 If 0 4/ 0 It 0 1/0 41 0 1/ 0 1/ 0 ATT. 66 64 14 ll GAl~ JJ6 312 51 45 37 36 34 34 13 17 13 LOSS 5 NET 331 26 1 YDS/ATT. 5. 0 YDS/GAHE TO 82.8 3 TO/GAME .8 LOHG 40 47 7 14 13 9 RUH (AGAINST) (Hobart l (Albany l (Roche,ter l IRocheHer l (Hobart l (Hobart l 5 8 8 4 3 4 4 1 0 51 1 3 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 3 so 42 37 36 34 34 13 LJ 13 ·3 ~I 4 192 928 67 861 4/ 4 183 700 159 541 G/ GS ATT. 4/ 4 113 4'/ a J 41 4 1 CHP. 61 2 0 CHP PCT. .540 • 667 .ooo IHT 6 0 0 4. 1 3. 6 3. 8 7. 4 4. s 4. 3 o. s ~. 3 J. 3 J. 3 -3. 0 4. 5 3. 0 !NT PCT. ,050 ,DOD .000 YOS 707 21 0 65.3 3 12.5 I 10.5 0 37.0 0 36.0 1 8.5 0 34.0 0 13.0 0 3.3 0 13.0 0 -3.0 0 • 8 • 3 .o .a 1.0 • 0 • 0 • 0 • 0 .o • 0 215.3 135.3 s 2. 0 4 1.0 YOS/ ATT 6. 3 '. 0 • 0 Y OS/ CMP. 11. 6 10. 5 .o Y OS/ GAllE 176.8 5.3 .a 41 4 117 41 4 51 63 .539 2 J • 451 6 .050 728 6. 2 11.6 182.0 5 .ooo 253 5.0 11.0 63.3 lOS 6 0 0 10 14 6 10 8 0 TOS/ ATT • 050 .ooo .ooo (Hobart ) (Hobart ) (Hob&rt ) (Hobart l (SL U ) () TDS/ CliP, .000 .ooo • 000 TOS/ GAME 1.5 • 0 • 0 PASS EFF. RTHG 113.4 115. 5 .o 6 .050 .000 I.S 112.8 1 .020 .040 .3 13.6 LONG PASS 43 15 0 (AGAIHS\ ( SL U (Hobart ( ) /··-·-·- RUSHING YAROS ···-·-/ '-· -· PASSING YAROS -·-1 TOS 6 0 0 D 0 D 0 0 D 0 0 TOTAL OFFENSE ATT. GAIN LOSS NET TDS ATT. CMP. YAROS PLAYS YOS 749 331 261 YOS/PL\Y 6. 0 5.0 4.1 3.6 YOS/Gi\HE TOS TDS/GAHE Brett Russ, QB Alex Felipe, T8 Vl•d Telemaque, RB Tom Lombardoni, FB - Chad Labonte t.\att Decker. RS Dave f Jynn, RB Brian Harris, QB It fch Carter, RB ~evtn HcLaughll11, FB S~ott Gomes, RB Marie Callahan, WR Team Dutchmen Opponent Totil s RECEIVING H&rk Ci11ah!l'l'l 1 WR Aaron Root, WR Eugene Ray, WR Vlad Teleoaque, R8 Tom Lombardonl, F8 Alex Felipe, TB Tim Bradford, fE Dave Flynn. RB Andy Girardi, IIR J• Brockenbrough, TE Dave Sodergren, WR Dutchmen Opponent Totals ALL-PURPOSE RU~HING Alex Felipe, TB Vlad Telemaque, RB Hark Callahall, l/R Mark Tullman, DB Aaron Root, WR Eugene Ray, llR Tom Lombardolll, FB llave Flynn, R6 VInce Ghtmo, DB Hatt Decker, RO Ttm Bradford, IE Chri> DecKor, !B Brett Russ, QB Chad Labonte Rich Carter, RO Andy Girardi, ~R Scott Gomes, RO Kevin McLaughlin, FB Brian H•rris, OS Dave Sodergren, WR Je Brockenbrough, TE Chris Trevisanl. 08 Team Outchnen Opponent Totali DEFENSE Ji• Farnan, DE Bryan Savage, lB Mark DeLisio, DT Till Kamps~ i, DB Cave He a ley, DB Bryan Faria, Dl Bob Rtgliettt, Lll Greg Holmes, D! Rick Werdann, DO Mike Grimes, NG Hark Tullman, DO Shaun Cutting,LB Brett Gelder, DB Eric Tryon, DB Chris Decker, TB J1• Dembowski, OT VInce Giaimo, DO Scott Mclntrye, NG Ross Eberhardt, DB Peter Wilhelm, DL Peter Simmons, DE Marco Lainez, LB \Ike Michallsin, LB z·atg Hosta, LB Dove flynn, RB Chr 1 s Trevl san1, DB Chip Grant, DB Anthony Lagiglia, LB Grog Harrison, PK Mike Richardson, P Aaron Root, WR Craig Bronder, Dr Peter Coccozza, DB Dave Mock, OT Mark Mulhollan<l, DE Dutchmen Opponent Totals ll 45 ·3 4Z 0 66 336 5 331 3 64 312 51 261 3 14 51 1 50 1 s 31 0 37 0 8 36 0 36 1 B 34 0 34 0 4 17 4 JJ () 4 34 0 34 0 3 I J 0 13 D 4 13 0 13 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 3 -3 0 192 928 67 861 183 700 159 541 Ill D a 0 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 I a 117 51 61 70 7 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 Zl 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 63 718 23 253 6/GS 4/ 4 3/ 0 3/ 3 4/ 2 4/ 4 v 2 31 3 4! 0 1/ 0 II 0 21 0 RECPTS, 15 YOS 232 142 108 YDS!RECPT, lS. 5 YDS/GAHE sa. o 47.3 36.0 TDS 1 1 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 1 0 4/ 4 ~/ 4 11 9 8 4 4 ~ 3 2 2 1 63 23 RUSHING G ATTS, HET VOS 4 66 331 4 64 261 4 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 3 0 0 .4 14 50 ~ ll 34 4 0 0 1 8 36 3 0 0 3 0 0 4 11 42 1 5 37 I 4 34 1 0 0 1 4 13 1 ] 13 ~ 4 13 2 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 1 1 -3 39 43 41 51 33 21 10 8 728 253 12. 9 12. 0 4. 9 10. 8 10.3 12.-8 11,() 10.5 5, () B,() 11.6 11.0 RECE IY!HG HD. '1'05 4 u 8 39 15 23Z 0 0 11 14Z g IOB 4 43 J 33 0 () 0 0 4 Sl 0 0 0 I) 0 0 0 0 2 21 0 0 0 D 0 0 1 8 2· 10 0 0 0 0 9.8 10.8 10. 3 17.0 8. 3 21,'0 10 • .0 4. 0 182.0 63.3 PUNT RETS NO. YOS 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 9 1 1 0 0 0 0 a a 8 62 1 16 0 0 2 ~2 o a 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 0 0 I 0 0 0 5 1 KICXOFF NO. 1 1 0 9 a 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 a 1(4 65 64 14 50 37 36 34 34 34 13 13 7. 4 4. 5 4. 3 4. g 8.5 4. 3 3. J 187.3 82.8 65.3 12.5 37.0 36.0 a.s 8.5 34.0 13.0 13.0 ~ 1.5 .8 .8 .3 .o l.O .o 0 0 5 8 8 7 4 3 4 1 1 a ·3 .o -3.0 • 0 ·3.0 3 1 0 1 a 0 0 0 0 0 0 .o .o .o .o .o .o 6 1 309 1589 2 34 79 4 TDS/GAHE • 3 RECPT tGAHE 3.8 3,7 3.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 .J .o • 0 • 3 • J • 0 • 3 • 0 1.~ .o 1.5 • 3 RETS YDS • 18 12 0 172 0 0 0 0 0 Q 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 PLAYS 71 73 15 10 12 9 18 11 8 9 4 2 11 s 4 2 4 3 4 3 2 I I 1 .. 3 • 8 2. 0 2.0 • 5 15.8 5.8 YOS 390 312 232 181 143 lOS 93 67 62 52 51 42 42 37 34 21 13 13 13 10 10 0 3 5 .I 3.4 397.3 198.5 14 5 3.~ 1.3 LOHG RECPT (3 26 20 22 15 u 20 19 15 8 a YDS/PLAY s.s 4.3 15.5 18.1 11.9 12.0 5.2 6.1 7.8 5.8 12.8 21.0 3.8 7.4 a. 5 10.5 3. 3 4. 3 3. 3 3. 3 5. a .o -3.0 !AG'-INST I (SL ~ ) (SL~ ) (SL ~ ) (SL U ) (Hob!'t .) (Roche>ter ) !Albany l (Hobart ) (Hot>ar t ) (Hobort ) (Rochester ) Y DS/GAHE 97. 5 78.0 58.0 60.3 ~7 .'7 36.0 23.3 l6.,1l 15.5 sz.o 17.0 14.0 10.5 37.0 3~.0 ZI.O u.o 13.0 3. 3 s. 0 10.0 .o -3.0 • 19Z 861 541 63 728 23 253 u 132 11 202 2B2 1923 233 1141 6. 0 4. 9 480.8 285.3 • 183 GiGS UT 4/ 4 14 3/ 3 17 4/ 4 8 4/ 4 11 4/ 4 8 4/ 4 7 2/ 2 5 4/ 4 7 II/ 4 7 4/ 4 5 '3/ I 3 4/ 2 5 4/ I 5 3/ 3 4 3/ 0 0 3/ 0 5 4/ 0 2 3/ 0 2 4/ 0 1 3-/ 0 0 2/ 0 3 Z/ 0 0 1 I 1 l 1/ 0 1 4/ 0 1 2/ 0 0 2/ 0 2 1/ 0 1 4 I C 1 4/ 0 1 3 I C 1 1/ 0 0 1/ 0 1 1/ 0 1 ll 0 1 4/ 4 • 131 4/ 4 0 AT 19 14 19 14 16 17 12 10 8 10 9 5 3 4 6 1 3 3 3 4 0 3 2 2 1 2 0 1 0 0, 0 1 0 0 0 U2 0 7 41 TT QB SACKJ-YROS 33 3J g 31 OJ 0 27 3J 17 25 OJ 0 24 21 9 24 21 7 17 OJ 0 17 2J 13 15 0/ 0 15 0/ 0 12 D/ 0 10 0/ 0 8 0/ 0 8 0/ 0 6 0/ 0 6 1/ 7 5 OJ 0 5 0/ 0 4 0/ 0 4 0/ 0 3 OJ 0 3 0/ 0 3 0/ 0 3 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 2 0/ 0 1 0/ 0 I 0/ 0 I 0/ 0 I 0/ 0 I 0/ 0 1 0/ 0 1 0/ 0 323 13/ 62 0 3/ 3 20 306 TL/-YRDS 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 D/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 OJ 0 0/ 0 ()j 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 01 0 0/ 0 01 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 0/ 0 Of D Of 0 0/ 0 FF 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FUMREC 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 I) 0 0 0 3 4 BLOCK 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 3 0 HISC-TO 0 0 0 0 0 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 PD 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 3 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 I 0 D 0 D 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 4 0 JHT 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 2 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 5 6 SAFETY 0 0 '0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 '0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TUM STAT'UTICS CATEGORY Unt an College Dutdau OP PO'tiE'Ji.T TOTALS Ftrst Downs (Rush-Pass-Penalty) Rushing Atte~pts 47+ 31+ ' • I Sf Rushing Yardl Gained R.u~hlng hrds Lon NET RUSHING UROAGE Yard' Per Rush Rushing Y•rd• Per GoNe Puses A'tte•pted Pusu Co11pleted Passes Had Intercepted Pus Co•phtton Percentage HEl YARDS P\SSING Yards Per ·Pus Atteapt lards Per fass Coap!etian Passing Yards Per G111e Total Plays Toh 1 Pl·a.rs Per &au TOl,I.L NET YAROS Yards G•l·ned Per Play hrds Gai.ned Per Gallo 928 57 861 4.5 215.3 117 .63 ' 6 .539 728 6.2 11.-6 182.0 309 77.3 1589 5.1 397.3 Kickoff Returns I Kjckllff Return Yards 11/ 202 Averafe Yardage Ptr IC i'tof.f Return 18.4 Klcko f Re.turns Ptr Ga.. 2.8 Punt ·Returns I Punt Rlturn Y·ards 15/ 132 Aver1ge Yardage Ptr Punt Return ·a. 3 Punt R~tturns Per S.•t 4. 0 Intercepti-on ~eturns I I-nterception Return yard 5/ 19 Average Verdage Per lnterceptl.on Return 3.8 Aver•ge lnter,ept1ons Per Ga•e 1.3 Punn 1 Toul Punt Yardage AverAge V..r.ds Per Punt Average Hu•ber of Punts Per &lee Fu•bles 1 Fu•bles Lost Penalties I Vards Penalized ~venge Yards Per Pena.!ty Penallies Per Ga•e 1 lards Penalized Per ·Galle r Pot nt Sdecy 1 1 Po tnt Safety 3rd DQvn Conversions 'Ath11pt> 1 ·Hade' 3rd Down Conversions Percentage Tt~e of Possession 15/ sog 33.9 3. 8 11 4 44/ 414 9. 4 11.0/103.5 0/ 0 60/ 29 • 483 2: 2: 8 311+ Io+ s • 1 H 100 159 541 3,;0 135.3 51 2l 5 .451 253 s.o 1r.o 63. J 234 58.5 7.94 3 •• 198.5 20/ 305 15. 3· 5.0 7/ 41 G •. g 1.8 6/ 57 9. 5 1. 5 28/ 851 30.8 7 .• 0 7/ 3 21/ ISS 7. 9 5.3/ 41.3 0/ 0 54/ 15 • 278 1:57:59 t\t:-~1 )\l0~ HOMECOMING 'J')E.E~E: vs. RPI 1:30 P.M. Frank Bailey Field PUNT RETURNS G RETURNS YOS YOS/RETURN YDS/GAHE RETURNS/GAME TOS LONG Vince Ghlmo, DB ~ 8 62 7. 8 15.5 z.o 0 13 Chris Decker, T8 3 2 H 21.0 14.0 .7 1 30 01ve Sodergren, WR 2 2 2 I. 0 1.0 1.0 0 2 Mark- Tullman, 08 3 I 9 9. 0 3.0 .3 0 9 Aaron Root, WR 3 1 1 1. 0 .3 .3 0 1 Ctlr .. h Trev1 san1, 00 2 1 D .o .o .5 0 a Matt Qe~ker, RB 1 1 16 16.0 16. 0 1.0 0 16 Dutchrnen 4 16 132 8.3 33. 0 4.0 l -· Opponent Tot a 1 s 4 7 41 ' 5. g 10. 3 l.B 0 -· REl KICKOFF RET URnS G RETURNS vas YDS/RETURH YOS/GAME RETURNS/GAHE TOS LONG RET Hark Tullm&n, DB \f'hd Telemaque, RB Alexftllpe,TB Dutchmen Opp.onont Tot•ls INTERCEPTIONS R tck Werdann, 08 a..,. Healey, DB Hark Tu11man, 08 Eric Tryon, DB Dutchmen Opponent Totols 10/13 10/20 10/27 11/3 11/10 J 9 112 19.1 4 I 12 12.0 4 1 18 18,0 4 11 202 18.4 4 20 306 15.3 G -IKTCPTS -- YDS •· YDS/RETORN 3 3 3 2 4 4 2 3 1. s 1 0 .o 1 0 • 0 l 16 16.0 s 19 3. a 6 57 9. 5 Upcoming H H H A A Sl. 3 3. 0 0 29 3. 0 • 3 0 12 4. 5 • 3 0 18 so.s z. B 0 -· 76. 5 5.0 0 -- INTCPTS/GAHE -TOS LONG • 7 0 3 • 3 0 0 ,3 0 0 • 5 0 16 I, 3 0 ·- 1. 5 0 ·- Games: API Coast Guard Gettysburg Norwich Hamilton SPORTLINE: Sundays at 9 p.m. WRUC 89.7 FM

~·:~e,'l!o i •L- ~, '\' 1 • t..,i. oc 1 i ' ,1~ ... .\\ 1\. •1'1 .·.,-1, \' .. \ .. CONCORDIENSlS, October 4, 1990 Page 21 @.onntrbirn.si.s SPORTS \Skeleton Squad\ Races at Hamilton Women's Soccer. • • C~ntinued from page 24 holding (last y;ear's squad center midfield ·and has endurance both offensive and defensively. Subbing in for Foster, McBride finishes up the Angelique Wolf, sophomores Rebecca Bray, J enna Carlin, and Jennifer Unterberg; and freshman Tina Mesiti. Joining the squad this year as a first year assistant coach is Kara Matarrese, who played on the empire state team coached by coach Zaloom and has coached at Hudson Valley. By GREG BARRETT This past Saturday, the Union College Men's Cross Country team traveled to Hamilton College for their second dual· meet. The weather was overcast and cool and the course was reputed to be very challenging. The \Skeleton Squad\ was ready to race. Four of the top Varsity runners were out due to illness, injury or the Jewish Holidays. This left the remaining six: on the squad with a difficult challenge. Greg Barrett was the first Dutchman to finish the slippery and soggy 5.3 mile course in eighth place with a time of 32:54. Hans Schwartz was next for Union finishing fourteenth in 36:14. Next to · finished at 4-9-2.) The cross the line was Will Allen traditional faH is due to capturing 16th place with a scheduling, and the team still time of 36:41. Bill Taylor was has yet to play some a mere 8 sconds behind in · formidable opponents. In seventeenth place with a 36:49. addition, the team has many Sophomore Chris Ryan took new members including 6 nineteenth fmishing strong in freshmen, 3 of whom start, and 38:47 with Mike Emmi 2 starting transfer students. coming in twentieth in 40:02. Because the team is young and When the score was tallied, relatively.- inexperienced, Hamilton had defeated Union changes in key positions from 15-41. The course had been · last year's squad had to be made extremely deceiving with short · and this was ex.pected to be a little uphills taking their tolL growing season. Nonetheless, It was covered with ankle-deep the possibility of a winning mud and many puddles. The season can not be ruled out. missing four members of the Of course, the most team also had a deleterious important element of a squad is effect. Nex.t week Union hosts its chemistry. On the forward the Union Invitational at line, junior forwar<J Jen Holder Saratoga. With the team serves at right wing while returning to full strength they junior Debby Danforth plays should be more than ready to left. Each knows the other's take on this challenge. moves and proper position on .second half. Working at outside midfield, junior Herrika Poor matches well with her opponent and has dedicated speed on the left side. Senior co-captain Teresa Sanchez uses her experience in midfield passing to play on the right. ---------------------- the field extremely well. Senior Finally, starting on defense, Senior co-captain Terri Thomas plays right wing, while sophomore Meg Howell acts as sweeper. As a strongside fullback, freshman Sarah Dingledee has speed and great knowledge of the position. Freshman Kris Weske, having been previously coached by coach Zaloom, begins as stopper, filling the position played by senior co-captain Kathleen Lawliss for the past three years, who now starts as keeper. Lawliss had played keeper in high school and is presently the key to the backfield, performing extremely well as the backbone to the defense. Subbing in as keeper is freshman Lara Greenberg, hoping to gain experience at the college level. The team has yet to face several challenging opponents, including Middlebury, Wells, and Williams this upcoming week. Middlebury, which is a state ranked team, and Williams defeated Union last season. Wells, which was a relatively easy victory for the squad last season, is also expected to be considerably more difficult this year, to be played this upcoming Saturday. Again, head coach Zaloom is looking ahead optimistically with a shot at a .500 or better season, stating, \We have a young team and this team has a lot of players that are playing for the first time with each other. I think tht they've made their mark as to how they're capable of playing and winning games, and the only thing they have to concentrate on is keeping the energy up. It's a matter of experience and how their mental toughness holds up ... We can compete against any team on schedule.\ Union Ruggers Back On Track By DAVE INCE and DAVE AUSTIN This past Saturday afternoon, the Union College Rugby Football Club traveled to Clinton, New York to compete against a solid Hamilton team. Union came home with a satisfying 7-6 victory. \The score does not indicate the dominance. that the Union ruggers showed over Hamilton,\ Dave Austin said. Matt Taylor, captain of the serum, said, \l!nion overwhelmed Hamilton in every serum down. Hooker Rob Schaeffer played a god-like game, winning almost every ball.\ The entire serum played a commanding, aggressive game. Distinctive plays were turned in by Chester Urban, who scored the Union try on a trick play from Taylor, Vinny, Dave Austin, Brian Spring, and Toby Overdorf. The Union line also played an auspicious game. Dan Gilbert, captain of the line, said, \We hit aggressively and played the gaps well. The only area that our team needs work on is our kicking game, and also the outlet pass from the serum half to the fly half.\ Outstanding plays from the line were had by Gilbert, on a 20 meter drop kick, and by Peter Deboer and Eric Altman. The Union \killer B's\ played a ferocious game, only to lose narrowly by a score of 4-6. Gilbert commented after the game that the B's improved one hundred percent from last week's game. They showed a continuous determination by playing hard to the last second. Co-captains Gilbert and Taylor are hopeful for the B's stating that they now have the experience necessary to win most, if not all, of the games to come. Noteworthy play was achieved by Jon Rothstein, who finally passed the ball, and Tim Souhan for their determined and relentless play. The two most notable plays of the day were: Pete DeBoer voicing his opinion and Brian Spring showing his dexterity crushing a can. The Union RFC is looking forward to its home game this weekend against a tough St. Lawrence. The team offers an invitation to the student body to come out and cheer them to victory, and thank you for your support. THE BOTTOM LINE Invites the Union Improvement Committee to speak out on the . air or not to speak at alii!! Sunday 8-9 p.m. WRUC 89.7 \Bottom Line\ co-hosts: · Mick Richter, Nat Keller forward Meghan Carlin splits the middle as a powerful center striker between the two. Filling in at the top are junior strikers Cindy Butler and Ann Ramaley, and sophomore striker Sabra Hall. The combination of freshmen Alison Foster and S11Zanne McBride serves as part of the engine of the team at midfield. Foster works well at Also vying to enter the starting line-up this season arc juniors Cynthia Butler, Kristen Ruckstuhl, Wendy Witmer, BE AN AMBASSADOR!!!!!!!!! JOIN THE STUDENT RECRUITING ARM OF THE ADMISSIONS OFFICE. ~D~~U W©QJJ[m ~lL[Q) [}=GO@:~ ~©lnJ©(0[Looc ©~[L[L [?)[Ri@~~~©lFD~~ ~lJ'(UJ[Q)~~~~oo~ ©~~~tr~ u~~ ©lL~~~ ©LS ~®®~~ ATTEND OUR FIRST MEETING: MONDAY, OCTOBER 8TH AT 7:00 PM COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM!!! The Sisters of Gamma Phi Beta would like to announce the Memorial Service for Jackie Czech will be held on Friday, Oct()ber 12, 1990 9 p.m. in Old Chapel THE LAUNDRY RooM 2329 Van Vranken Ave. - Phone 382-8566 CLEAN & FAST SERVICE •Dry Cleaning • Shirts • Wash & Fold Service 65¢ Per Lb. • 8 lbs Mini mum Delivery Service Wash & Fold 95¢ per Lb. Coin Machines Parking in Rear

.. ....- ..... \ ' \ 1 \. Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 <1Ionrorbirttsis SPORTS Harriers Run Well At Hamilton By SANDY ANSELMENT time of 23:51. Returning sophomore Kristen Welch 1 finished sixth for the team in an impressive time of 24:51. Rounding out this small but spirited team finished Claire I : This past Saturday, the Women's Cross-country team went hea1l to head against a tough Hamilton squad in their first dual meet of the season. The U.C. team showed their spunk as they battled not only their opponent, but also the hot, humid weather. Crossing the finish line frrst for Union was junior Sandy Anselment with a time of 22:15. Following closely, in her frrst race of the season, was senior Meg Parsons. Running a personal record of 22:22, Parsons, who missed X-C last season due to a term in Japan,, proved that she's back and ready to go the distance. Third for the team was senior Lauren Karp. Karp, continuing to realize her distance potential, finished with a seasonal best of 23:38. Tasha La bare, the team's newest member, finished next with a strong \Mrs.\ Megathlin with a time · of 25:07. · Although the team was unable to defeat Hamilton's strong squad, the women all ran very strong races and mOFe importantly, they looked good \breaking out\ their new windsuits. The next two weeks sees the team giving it all they've got as they go into double sessions in preparation for post-season meets. The team traveles to nearby Saratoga State Park for their next two competitions. Corne on out and cheer on the team! P.S. Thanks to Patty (GOL) and Erin (OED), the \pasta people\ for a terrific pre-race dinn ' er. Crew Team Begins Season Fall By AMIN KHAN Vnion's fall rowing season began early Saturday morning at the Head of the Hudson Regatta in Albany. Competing in ih~ three-mile head race were Union, SUNY- Albany, RPI, Ithaca, Vassar and SUNY- Billghamlou. Bolh union's varsity men and women performed well in the season opener with the Varsity Men's Four (Hal Allen, Michael Kimber, Pete Schwab, Matt Green and cox Al-Arnin Khan) rccci ving medals for their second place finish. Head coach Tom McClarence \looks forward to a steady development throughout the fall season.\ SCOREBOARD September 26 UNION 10 September 26 UNION 1 29 UNION 2 October 1 UNION 0 September 27 UNION 6 30 UNION 2 October Football Albany St. 0 Men's Soccer Middlebury 0 Cortland 2 OT Albany St. 5 Women's Soccer Hamilton 1 Vassar3 (3-1) (1-3-1} 2 UNION 0 Skidmore 1 (4-4) September 26 UNION 0 29 UNION 1 30 UNION 1 October Field Hockey Oneonta 4 William Smith OT VassarO 2 UNION 1 Hartwick 2 OT ( 4-4-1) September 2B-9 UNION October Volleyball Plattsburgh Tourney Union won 3 of 5 matcilt:s 2 UNION 3 Games St. Rose 1 game (12-6) · September 26 UNION3 October 2 UNION9 Septem:.er Women's Tennis Oneonta 6 Hartwick 0 Cross Country 29 U! ~ION Men 50 UNION Women 46 Hamilton 15 Hamilton 15 (2-2) The Ups and Downs Soccer of Men's IJy FRIEDS The past week should be considered an improvement for the men's soccer team. After dropping their first two matches, they went 1-1-1 for the week, though the one loss has proved costly. Last Wednesday the Dutchmen hosted much lauded Middlebury. The Dutchmen had every reasnn to lose the game, but took tl:at as a challenge and maintained the better of the play for the frrst half. Despite the 0-0 score at that point, it was obvious that Union had come to play. In the second half, they play evened out, and during a Middlebury attack, a goal saving foul was made by the Union frosh goalie, Lee \Soda\ Popper. The move proved to be the right one, as Middlebury missed the goal on the ensuing penalty kick. Mter that event, Union started to dominate once again. Midfielder Adam Epstein began to connect on his passes more, as strikers Eric \Bob\ Cressman and frosh Jeff Mela (transfer rom Cameroon U) reestablished the Union scoring threat. The hard work finally paid off late in the half, when Epstein drilled a beautiful through ball from Jcmmer Sollinger into the Middlebury goal. Ten minutes later, Union had its first win of the year, 1- 0. Union was ready to take on more. On Sa~urday, they hosted Cortland State, ranked fifth in the state, and 133rd in the world. Filled with stars from soccer (and lacrosse) me<::c~ Long Island, ·Cortland looked quite invincible on that Saturday. Union's captain, Eric Reaman, provided some inspirational words, and the battle began. From the start it was aU Union. In the first minute, hustle from Sollinger and Tim Walsh nearly produced a goal. Union :began to dominate, and their new confidence showed in the cheezy mustaches of the Cortland eleven. The capacity crowd was shown some old- time soccer on Garis Field-- Popper making dramatic if not technically correct saves, playrnaking creativity from Epstein, Sollinger, Walsh and frosh Dave Chodosch, who is turning into quite a ball player. This sweet music reached a crescendo when Walsh put in his second goal of the year off a set play from Epstein and Sollinger. Cortland came back to hit the crossbar, but Union held on until halftime to the 1- 0 lead. I11 the second, the Dutchmen provided more of the same, but suffered two breakdowns in the early going which they were lucky to escape from without a goal. The squad added a second goal midway through the half, when the quick Mela eluded two defenders and hit a beautiful baH to Casey \Co.onel\ Kurz, who hit home an easy winner. Then all of a sudden, with under ten minutes left, the roof caved ill. The entire middle of the D11tchmen lineup was replaced practically en masse, and Cortland weRt through the subs like experience through cold 'legs. Or something like that. The result was two goals, and an .extension of the game into overtime. In that period, Union was lucky to survive. Cortland missed several opportunities, and without the heroics of Reaman and goalie Popper, the Dutchmen would have lost, rather than tie, 2-2. This past Monday, the collapse agasinst Cortland carried over to Albany State. Union was thoroughly embarrassed and routed, 5-0. I don't have much to say about this one because the team played bad overall ball, and as Rearnan summed up, \Every time they had a chance, they scored. Every time.\ What's irnportan t to bring out of that fiasco of a game is for the Dutchmen to realize that they are not a bad team, by any stretch o~ the imagination. What's irn(JOrtant at 1-3-1 is to do to opponents what they did against Middlebury and for 70 minutes against Cortland. ,----- \To be effective, legal education I must be a shared enterprise.\ James A. Gardner Assistant Professor of Law B.A., Yale University J.D., University of Chicago, 1984 Professor Gardner spent four years as a trial attorney for the Department of Justice's Civil Division. He tried cases involving the First Amendment, equal protection, food stamps, the Privacy Act, and military and national \\-::::------:::-------! security issues. He has also worked at Common Cause and done economic research for the Department of Commerce. His interests also include administrative and constitutional law. Meet with Prof. Gardner to learn more about our Law School, where faculty and students work together toward a common goal. Career Festival, Wednesday, October 1 0 From 12 -4 PM, Union College Field House We invite applications from all persons regardless of race, gender, sexual preference or handicap. n n n $chool•f Law ~ UleslernDewEagleod College 1215 Wilbraham Road Springfield, MA 01119 413-782-1406 Write For Sports • Dare You • Contact Andy at 381-4651 or Box 212 ; I ,, 'I i I I \ ··~ i : i ' '• .... ; . '

. \\ .. CONCORDIENSIS, October 4, 1990 Page 23 (iJottfllrbirnsis SPORTS Mark DeLisio Leads Defense As Dutchmen Shutout Albany St. By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Junior defensive tackle Mark DeLisio was in on 14 tackles. which included three sacks, as the Fighting Dutch~en stifled the Albany St. Great Danes and held them to a paltry 63 yards of total offense. For his effort, DeLisio has been named the C oncordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week. DeLisio had six solo tackles, eight assists, and his three sacks accounted for 17 lost yards. In all, the defensive unit, which had just three sacks in its first three games, came up with 10. DeLisio and the rest of the defensive line continually pressured and Mark DeLisio harassed the Albany St. quarterbacks, allowing them to complete only two of seven passes for 56 yards. The run defense, however, was even stingier. Albany St. ran. the ball 44 times, but they only gained 7 yards, an incredible average of .16 yards a carry. DeLisio was named to the ECAC Weekly Honor Role for his outstanding .effort. He is currently third on a team in total tackles with 27, and his 3 sacks tie him for the team lead. Good luck to DeLisio and the rest of the defense at Homecoming against RPI on October 13. And con- gratulations to this week's Athlete of the Week, Mark DeLisio. CONCORDIENS~·S SPORTS COllUJ rE$1r ~ (O)lNJ OfF l lJ=fl IE WIElE l The L.A. Lakers had 4 players whb® were p1 eked first in the draft on their 1987-88 Championship team. · · Name the 4 players. ~~~--- WDIBII mmiitHmriDafl lPUB£ One winner shall be chosen from au correct entries. Submit entries to BOX 212 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after each issu& or concordiensis. • Last Week's Answer: Red Sox .. Vankees ond the Boston Broves outhing OH The Problems in Sport Today By ANDY BRAVER, Sports Editor A few things have crossed my mind in the past week. It is unfortunte, because they all have to do with what's wrong in sports today-- the owners.I don't mean to imply by my critism that I possess a plethora of knowledge that many of them lack. Rather, the only thing I possess is 20/20 hindsight. Now I am sure at this point that most people are familiar in some way with the alleged sexual harassment incident involving several New England Patriot football players, the team's owner, Victor Kiam, and a female beat reporter from The Boston Herald, Lisa Olson. Whether or not you believe a female reporter belongs in a men's locker room is another question entirely. (I don't want to address this question except by, saying that if women reporters are going to be allowed in men's locker rooms, men reporters must be allowed in women's locker rooms. Female athletes like Martina Navratilova, who doesn't allow men reporters in her locker room, must play by the same rules and allow men inside after the games, matches, and tournaments. It must go both ways if it is going to go this way at all.) Obviously, an incident like this should never have happened. The problems encountered in the Patriots' locker room on September 17 transcend the question of who should be allowed inside. It is really a point of nothing more than human decency. In a locker room full of 'professional' athletes and reporters, one would expect, and must demand, 'professional' behavior at all times by all individuals. To humiliate and sexually harass a reporter doing the job she is getting paid to ~o is not only uncalled for, but ts also unnecessary uncivilized, and worst of a11 ~ the athletes involved, 'unprofessional'. In Dave Anderson's column in last Sunday's New York Times, he gave this account of the incident: \According to the 26-year-old Olson, on her first year on the Patriot beat after having covered other pro teams. she was sitting on a stool interviewing the cornerback Maurice Hurst near the weight scale when [Patriot tight end Zeke] Mowatt, who was naked, walked over, made a sexist remaik, then suggested that other players, each naked, taunt her. According to Olson, Mowatt stood inches away from her face and made a lewd suggestion. Behind him, Olson has said, other naked players made lewd gestures.\ Of course, Zeke Mowatt denied that the incident occurred as Olson described it He might be telling the truth, but even if the detail, are different, the intent is st.ll the same. To make the matter worse, Patriots owner Victor Kiam was reported to have characterized Olson as \a classic bitch.\ Understandably, this statement added more fuel to the already burning controversy. However, the shrewd Kiam denied ever making the remark, explaining that he never uses the word, \classic\. What I am getting at here is simple-- I believe that the NFL, as well as a11 other major sports leagues, should re- examine their policy of admitting female reporters into locker rooms. Teams should supply a bathrobe to players and then make sure they are worn. And more importantly, the players, and owners, should be taught that they must treat female reporters the same way they themselves wish to be treated by the reporter. They all have jobs to do, and that is all anyone should be worrying about. Doing their jobs is what a few other NFL owners have been doing lately, and I don't like it. A1 Davis, owner of the L.A. [for now] Raiders, is one of them. He spent months trashing the city of Los Angeles and played games with the city and local fans by threatening time after time to move the franchise back to its native Oakland. He made the other city by the Bay beg and plead for his black and silver pirates. And finally he decided to stay in L.A. But what really gets me more than Davis' crusade to drive the citizens of two cities crazy, is the fact that 80,000 people actually attended The Raider game on Sunday. Don't they realize that they are putting money in the hands of the man who almost took their team away because he wanted more, and more, and more ... ? I am also bothered by another owner. Jimmy Jones bought the Dallas Cowboys and brought in his own coach, Jimmy Johnson. But after Sunday's Cowboys/Giant game, I wonder how he could have done such a thing. The Giants led, 17-3, with 1:15 remaining in the second quarter. Dallas' ball, frrst down on their own 30 with three timeouts remaining. So what do they do? They run a delay up the middle. Then they huddle up to call a play. Johnson called another run and the half ended. Did he want to win the game, or did Jimmy Johnson want to get back home to find out who killed Laura Palmer? Jimmy Jones, what were you thinking when you hired this man? -

.. .,. - •' The Women's Soccer Team's quest for a .500 or better record continues as they host Middlebury at 4:00 this afterno.on. - The Football Team had plenty ol reason to celebrate, after sbutlng out Albany St. 1 0-0. Details below. Women's Soccer On The Rise By RON BIRNBAUM For the most part, things are on the upswing for the Union Women's Varsity soccer squad. Their present record is 4-3, and over the past few years, the team has never had 4 victories under its belt this early in the season. The female hooters suffered a 3-0 loss in tbeir opening game against 13ing- hrunton, a state ranked team, but rebounded two days later with a 3-1 road victory against New Paltz. However, therr next road trip was less successful as Siena defeated them 2-1. Union then came back to win 3 straight games against Mt. Holyoke (5-l), Russel Sage{3- 0), and Hamilton (6-1), but their streak came to a halt with a defeat at home to Vassar, 3-2. The key to victory in tbe Mt. Holyoke, R. Sage, and Hamilton games was offensive control. Backfield-stopper-up- field communication, combina- tion passing, ball control, fundamental passing, overlap- ping, and one-on- one offense/defense allowed for breakdowns of the opponent's defense, direct kicks on goal, and easy scoring opportunities. Junior forward 1 en Holder had 3 goals in the Hrunilton game, the most scored by any single player in one game for the past few seasons. In the same game, sophomore sweeper Megan Howell and freshman midfielder Suzanne McBride controlled 3 direct kicks leading to goals. In the Vassar game, the Lady Dutchmen showed more physical domination on the field, yet Vassar was more mentally prepared. While Union had many shots on goal in the first twenty minutes of play, none of them found the net, and the opponent went ahead early with a goal on a penalty shot. In recent years, Union has either tied or defeated Vassar. Still, all things considered, second year varsity head coach Suzanne Zaloom is pleased with the progress of the team of '90, and attributes its success to teamwork. While in the past the team has faltered at this point in the season, this year the plateau seems to be Continued on page 21 SPORTSWEEK Thursday, October 4 Field Hockey vs. Manhattanville Women's Soccer vs. Middlebury Friday, October 5 Women's Tennis vs. Vassar Saturday, October 6 Women's Soccer a1 Wells Woman's Tennis at Albany St. Cross Country M Union Invitational Tuesday, October 9 Women's Soccer vs. Williams Volleyball at Williams Wednesday, October 1 0 Field Hockey vs. RP I 3:30 4:00 4:00 1 :00 1 :00 12:00 4:00 7:00 4:00 October 4, 1990 Dutchmen Dump Danes, 10-0; Enjoy Week Off Before Homecoming By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief It will not be the most memorable game in Union College Football history. If the Dutchmen had not been awarded victory by default at University Field, they would probably choose not to remember the game at all. But Union did win, 10-0, and did improve to 3-1 on the season, and at the same time picked up its first ever win on the road against the State University at Albany, so from that standpoint the game was not completely worthless. The Dutchmen amassed 305 total yards while limiting a depleted Danes squad to just 63. This was only to be expected considering that Albany's starting quarterback was out with the chicken pox and its starting tight end--the Danes like to run offensive sets that require two tight ends--was also out with an injury. Albany was therefore forced to run its option with a freshman quarterback, Dom DeMatteo, who was listed in the program as a cornerback, and an offensive line that was short by one blocker. Handicapped as they were, Albany managed to escape from the first half knotted in a scoreless tie. What's more, were it not for an injury to DeMatteo and a blocked field goal attempL by Union's RickWerdann, the Danes may have emerged from the second half tied at 3-3. Union started fast, as the Dutchmen often do. But an opening drive that stalled at the Albany 12 resulted in the first missed field goal of the season by freshman kicker Greg Harrison. Albany had escaped, but they would not be able to escape the throes of the Union defense, which was dominant for most of the afternoon. Almost every time that DeMatteo turned in the backfield, either to pitch or to run, he would find himself in the grasp of a Union defender. Most of the 63 yards that Albany gained, in fact, came on two ruiming plays. ~ven with that kind of defense, the Dutchmen offense, which rolled up 59 points the week before against Hobart, could not light up the scoreboard. Whenever it looked Lambert poll The results for the Lambert-Meadowlands Trophies, presented to the top football teams In the Northeast, with flrst•place votes In parentheses, records through Sun- day and total points based on a 10.9-8- 7-6-s-.4-:J-2·1 scoring system: Division Ill 1. Hofstra W 2. Ithaca (1) 3. Cortland St. (1) 4. Dickinson S.l,.ycomlng (1) 6. Ramapo 7. Union B. Plymouth St. 9. Glauboro St. 10. Wagner 5-0-0 75 4-0-0 67 4-0-0 61 440 46 340 38 440 24 3-1..0 22 440 21 440 14 3-1..0 13 as if the Dutchmen were finding a spark, they would shoot themselves in the foot by taking untimely penalties. For the game, Union was assessed 105 yards on 10 flags. That kind of mistakes allowed an ovennatched Albany team to stay close. Union had scored on a 30- yard Harrison field goal in the third quarter. The ensuing kickoff gave Albany the ball on their own 24. After picking up six yards on a keeper, DeMatteo was shaken up and forced to leave the game for what tutned out to be a disastrous play. On the next snap, the new quarterback, also a freshman, pitched behind the tailback and Dave Healey recovered for Union on the Albany 15. Three plays later, Brett Russ connected with David Flynn from nine yards out and th Dutchmen were finally in the end zone, taking a 10-0 lead. • • • Junior defensive tackle Mark DeLisio was named to the ECAC weekly honor roll. DeLisio had six solo tackles, eight assists, and three sacks worth 17 yards. Union head coach AI Bagnoli posted his 70th career victory against only 18 losses as he defeated his mentor. Bagnoli was an assistant under Albany head coach Bob Ford prior to coming to Union in 1982. The Champion Poll Union's win over Albany enabled the Dutchmen to retain their third place ranking in the Chrunpion Upstate New York Poll. Ithaca, a 23-14 winner over Division II Springfield, kept the top spot with 12 of the 16 first place votes and 76 points. Cortland, with its 45- 14 wipeout of Western Connecticut, remained second with three frrst place votes and 66 points, while Union picked up one first place vote and 4 7 points. The University of Rochester, which defeated Chicago, 36-0, is fourth with 34 points and RPI, which tied WPI 17-7, held on to fifth with 12 points. A Break in the Scltedule The Dutchmen ep.joy a rare week off in the sched!lle this Saturday before beginning a three-game homestand. RPI will be at Frank Bailey Field on October 13th, the homecoming game. The Engineers are 2-0-1 and host S tonehill this weekend. It will be the 45th consecutive season that Uri.ion and RPI will have met. The Dutchmen are 34-7-2 at home against the Engineers and own a 67-16-4 overall series advantage. although RPI claims that it is only a 65-18-4 edge.

Vol. CXX, No. 3 Hull's Inauguration S,et For Sunday Roger H. Hull will be inaugurated at 11 a.m. on Sunday, Oct. 14, as the 17th president of Union College in the College's Memorial Chapel. Delegates from more than 100 colleges and universities and from learned and professional societies will attend. The academic procession, in cap and gown, will assemble at 10:15 a.m. at the Social Sciences Building and march at 10:45 to the chapel. The ceremony will be followed by a 12:30 p.m. reception for invited guests at the College Center. Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music at Union and an organist~ will perform Purcell's Trumpet Voluntary in D for the opening processional and Purcell's Trumpet Continued on page 3 ~chenectady, New York College Continues Hickok Program For Freshmen Students Have High Optimism For Upcoming Year . By LARA CHAMBERLAIN The Hickok Program is once again an option for the freshman class. This living learning program, begun last year, was designed to heJp create a diversity of housing options. Dean Alford, appointed by Dean Mammola as the professional staff member in charge, stressed that it is \an addition to\ and not \in lieu of' the current housing system - something students seem to fear. This alternative was extended to incoming freshmen by a two page pamphlet included in their It is hoped that these students will be able to bring some of the optimism of their classroom discussions back to the dorm. housing registration that briefly outlines the structure of the dorm and its goals. The most predominant of these goals is \to provide a more personal environment of . close relationships between students and faculty, but primarily among students themselves. It attempts to integrate the concerns discussed in the classroom with students' experiences throughout the campus.\ The College attempts these goals by placing five or six Hickok residents together in a common Freshman Preceptorial class along with • other non-Hickok freshmen. ·I Also, they will be placed ' together in their chosen Gen-Ed history sequence. It is hoped that these students will be able to bring some of their classroom discussions back to the dorm and it is also hoped that it will be more convenient foi them to confer about paper and exam topics. Aside from this common class, the students will be participating · in a number of otiler group · activities. Among these is a regular schedule of faculty- student lectures, debates, and discussions. In this way, students \learn faculty are mortal and approachable\ so that students can begin \to discover things together,\ cites Dean Alford . Under these stipulations thirty-eight freshmen signed up for the program last year only to discover that besides the physical aspect of living in the dorm and attending common classes, little was to become of Dean Mammola shares the students' optimism and feels that with all the program's successes and failures, \it is important to try new things.\ the program in the 1989-90 school year. The students felt they were placed up campus, isolated from their freshman class, and given none of the guidance promised by the administration. Dean Mammola has confessed that the program was \by no means perfect or as good as we hope it will become in time.\ He recognizes last year's program•s weakness as \the College's unrealistic expectation that the Continued on page 3 October 11, 1990 No Progress For Gamma Phi In Search For Housing By TOM ANDRUCHOW Associate News Editor Last spring Dean Mammola asked the Student Affairs Council to consider campus housing for Gamma Phi Beta beginning in the 1991-92 academic year. After raising the question last spring, no progress has been made towards a fulfillment of this request. Some students rumor that the dean has gone back on his 1 word Gamma Phi Beta's chapter at Union College began in 1985, a time when on-campus housing was overcrowded. Then they were told to wait for new housing to become available. Now, with low occupancy rates in some on Continued on page 3 THE ~NG®RDIBNSIS. Vo1 •. XXIII. No. H. ·~~-~~;;~·~T c<6N. F~RENC~. I president :-';princiJ>;I; vi .... .-~, _in>.lil~::i:u.·:~. ~:,~ •• Yesterday Or Today? • llll'lllhl'rlillqt roll vf thh4. :L:-•!\.I;M.:l · -- I In :tl'conh•ncc \\'ith thcl'e reliululion~ the Prominent Educators Working- for Unl- ,;,111''' in~ (;til wm. j,,m·tl I >t·c(·mllt'l •·I : form Colte-J,te Entrance Exntn- I In\ II'W ut'lhl\ ,,.,<,Jution' 1111~1111111C1Uloly nduptrd lnutlons. .d tht• lllrC'IIII:; uf lh(' .t\h ... ll~ i:ttJoll ul Coli<'J.:\t!' olllll : l'rt'Jl.Jl,lhll\' :--;t'lwul~ in th•· t\lit!f)[t• ~t:llt·~ arlt[ Headlines Are Similar l't1c reCl'llt a~it:1tTun in ll'J,;:~Irtl tu tlu• ;u[upi!IIU ' ~lanl:1ml.. ut t1 11 · 11 tlll't·ling hdd Dc.'l't'tnla·r ~. ura llltl!'C)ff11 'H<tL'tH ttf ~·t1llt'g\l' t•ulrat1Ct: Hl{lliH•· ~ l~l)t;, urging t!u• c•.ul\ ~-.t.rbli..,!Jnl(.'lll uf a fuiut lllfltt!i :llld ('X.liUin,tl 11>11 ... h.l .. ll''lllh•tl in ~t''.l'l,ll t ·• ollq,.:t• .\.lnJIO.,,JIIII I' \,1111111,11\1111 Bmud, .111.111\'1• I:Uilfl.'fl!'lll'(.'~ hl:'l\'\t'l'U tit .. • Jlll''ialrnt-. ul tin· ltl'li· 1 Ltli\'' 1 .., nun '''h'llolt•ol '\ !' ltll tnllt•g't' 111 till' lnth)ll\l:IHlCl'111t'tl. 'l'hrfulltm!ll~ '' 11u.· t.- ... ult \frdtllt• :--it, 1 h· ... ,11ul :'\l:ts\Lnld ]J,I\1111! dllllll).! lht• ufthc- m:tiun t:II·a·nnt ~rw Yml.. Crt_\' thalli~: tlw pt~·,t·nt .~t·. 1 t • 1 lu·-.luu.u 1 1 1.1 ...... t\.·nul~cl'i lf1 ,uh holidays. }),·, H.uyn1l111d lH'It•d -'' Unillu',tt.'f'lt'· .. 111 r[ i 11 .. ,:it•llln hl'lll~ luUntc.l h•:,:dlu·r {!ll\ thio., t.eutuliVL' at lhc t.:untl•H'thC'. ptu po'l'} nt tutt 1, • ..,.., th.tu tilh nu~rnlu.'t\\t., lu st•n•l Nh\\ YottK, l)c-~..~·tuhl'l .::. ~~~J'J 1 .1 lt'!tlt''>L'Ill;tlt,,· I•• .1 nlt't:hn:: '\ l1t' la·ld .11 At the mcctiu~ uf thr.: A~soci~•tinll ul Culll'f.!C.''I' (',Jumhia tlniH·r,ity, on l• .. rid:\·· Dt•(.'t•mht•t ~.!. anill>l'epnrntory Schools in the ~lidtllc S.hth.•!-i :ll 1u A.M., tu untlntnlc.c thL· r-.tahli•duncnt uf :Inti ltlaryhuul, hchl ut Tn·nton, N.J., Vl'l..l'IU- wd1\ Buart!. lu:r 2, the lilllowinl{ n•sulutiuns were nnuni- I [t j., h•lJH•cl thHt tftl' I'L''JlUfi\C! t11 this itwifatirm l'nf)U1i\y adopted: 'IIIli)' he ,,lolllpl otiHI ~Oicli;d, iml\'tii.IICh :~5. thc~e HI'S0(1•td, 'fh3t thil'> ,tMud.ttiun ttrg-e ... tlu· l'.trl)' ' j.., t.'\'t•ry l't'W•oUl\ to Udtt'\t.' tlwt ptthltc .0})11\IOll lh te~a.bliahtnent uf a juinl co\lcf:'c iuhni_s..,ion c.•xtunin· I r<'ntl.v tu \\'L'h:IU~IC th~ htep ~unte1nplated.. It nhon board, comp<.IM-ctl !Jf n:prescntilliH•sufculleg-,•o; w 1 JI Itt• ltu111~ 111 lll!lld that till: rcs.olutaonh 1md of Kc.;:omhu}• achuol~ In the Mllhlll' :-il;L1rs anti : 1 t'ft'rl L'cl 10 ~.:onlt•I1IJ,IIIh.• ;I Bn:anl on which the M.aryla.nd, which !lha.lt Ct\lh.•avur to bt111K ;thu_ut ol\o I ~(.·t~uuti:IH' schuuls til mil have rurnm1 TC)Jft'ben· rapidly tuo J'M.lX.slblc ;ut ngrct•meut upon a untfnnn , • . • . . 11 tatement a.a to e<tch !iu1 1 ject Tl'ftu•rctl hy l\\'o \r ' toatPil'.,, :mel Ill accunlancc w1th th~se •;solut.rom~ roore collcgt!H for m1tnill\iun: to holtl ur co 1 u'!'oc tu 11~· 1 h is tht- J)Hrpoc;e tu n!!tk the Ex~:clthV!! Comnuttcc heltt. at wn\·enient I)Oint:;, in June c1f '-'nch .)'l'4lr. •• : uf the Association <Jf Coll~:ges and Prept•r<itory berlea·ot college admift~lun examiuatit~ns, witb um· ; Sehoul-; in the M lddle Stutes otml M.aryJand, to ro['m teats In each hu\.Jjl.\ct and hisue certit\catl!:j nnmc the rcprcscnt:ttives oft11e secondary schools baaed d'pon the reAUit1i of IIUC:h <'X:lminatiunl'<o. i 1 t . t1 e 1 roposed Bonn! for Rt1()/vtd, Th:Lt in c:ue liouch a board J>t: 1.':-ililb· 1 \\' 10 arc 0 tiC I':~ upo~l 1 ' • ,. • li•hed before the n~xt meeting uf this 4\!IMOCia.ticm, 1 tlw tir'it yc-nr ol 1l .... elU!!tence. the E•ccutlve Commltlte be empoWered t() tlc~tig- 1 He'ipectfullr. · The Con.cordlensis in its primeval stages. By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief High tuiti()]t~ low enrollment. The Nott Memorial in disrepair. Standardized testing under examination. 1'oday's headlines? Well, yes, Old news? Correct again. It is said that hisoory repeats itself, and the Concordiensis archives do not prove otherwise. An editorial in the January, 1879 issue reads: \The tuition fee at Union is with one or two exceptions the highest in the country. This may partially explain the falling off in this year's number of Freshmen.\ It is easy and inviting to glorify the past and lament today's troubles, but oftentimes the problems are remarkably similar among the various eras. The Nott is due to be renovated, and at long last it will be, but the building's unsound structure is a problem not unique to the present-day Union braintrust. Paul Grossman, reporting in the April 9, 1981 issue, stated that \The Nott Memorial Theatre has had a long history of safety violations. Most of In This Issue: Nature Reserves in Union's Back Yard -Page 8 Homecoming Centerfold -Pages 11, 12 and 13 the violations have their origin in the very nature of the building.\ A decade later, steps toward a permanent solution are finally underway. SAT's or no SAT's? A difficult question hardly answerable by consensus. When Union moved to no longer require the SAT's a couple of years ago, it took the opposite stance on an issue that came before the College at the turn of the century. The January 31, 1900 Concordiensis chronicles Continued on page 5 Women's Tennis On The Rise -Page 24

.r . . . . Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 <!tonrorbtrnsts NEWS ANALYSIS At Last - By JIM POLITES The official Reunification of Germany on Wednesday, October 1, not only signifies the Cold War's end, but a period of adjustment for citizens who have been divided economically and philosophically since Hitler was in pov:er. The Bc:lin Wall, once the physical symbol between Eastern Communism and Western Democracy, is now only a dim memory of the conflicting ideologies shared for some 45 years. The superpower heads, The Berlin Wall, once the physical symbol between Eastern communism and Western democracy, is now only a dim memory of the conflicting ideologies shared for 45 years. Presidents Bush and Gorbachcv, have declared open support and view the merger as the impetus to a new age in friendly relations between countries like the U.S. and Soviet l~nion, who for so long were bitter, unrelenting enemies. The Germans now find themselves in an enviable position in dealing with other countries around the world. United, they are the richest nation in Europe, with resources unmatched throughout the continent. Germany's wealth, influence and fused strength have caused skepticism on the part of such leaders as Britain's Margaret Thatcher. For England and other states, the presence of such a force in an area that relied for so long on a balance of power may very well cause diplomatic strain where hannony once reigned. The Parliament, headed by Chancellor Helmut Kohl, convened as a united political body on October 4 with 519 Western legislators and 144 from the East. These representatives will have the unenviable task of dealing with the United States and U.S.S.R., both of whom are taking a great deal of credit for German consolidation and plan to be rewarded with advantageous treaties. It's essential that Germany does not begin to play favorites in foreign policy, because if one nation feels it is being slighted, they will point an accusing finger at Germany, immediately placing tension in new relations that will never be given a fair chance. The internal difficulties that Germans face in the wake of unification will be the major cause of strife as a divided people are integrated into a common system devoid of socialism. Economically, the change to a market system will hav~ significant consequences, for Eastern Germans are accustomed to government- backed job opportunities Stifled Speech On Campus By JONATHAN D. KARL Free speech is under attack on college campuses, and even its traditionally staunchest defenders have joined in the assault. Student journalists and free speech advocates are concerned about a proliferation of college speech codes so widespread that, according to T i m e Magazine, \Nowhere is the First Amendment more imperiled than on college campuses.\ As is often the case with censorship, these codes have been adopted with the best intentions: campus racism is on the rise and something has to be done about it. So, token measures are taken which exacerbate racial tensions and ignore the First Amendment. Speech codes drafted in response to this important issue are dividing the American Civil Liberties Union, which has always tended toward an \absolute\ position on free speech. While the Wisconsin and Michigan ACLU affiliates have sued their respective state universities over the codes, the northern and southern California affiliates adopted a resolution in July favoring narrowly drawn policies which prohibit harassing speech. John Powell, national legal director of the ACLU, asserts: \My concern is less with the strength of the First Amendment than with the \My concern is less with the strength of the First Amendment that with the wave of racial harassment that has swept the country. -John Powell, ACLU wave of racial harassment that has swept the country. The campus is not under the threat of being silenced.\ Defending their resolution, the California affiliates cite the legal need to balance the First Amendment against \conduct that interferes with the Fourteenth Amendment right of students to an equal education.\ They argue that the resolution only advocates a ban on speech which is clearly One Germany destgned to keep will undoubtedly formulate helpless. unemploy~~nt low. opposite opinions on state This inconsistency in a The maJonty of the~e people matters. democratic system can be hav~ n_ever b.een subJect to a Since Western Germany in politically crippling, as the ~apttah~t soctety .that ~ew~ds essence inherited five Eastern possibility of people taking mn.ovati?~ a~d tmagtnatton; ·states, there is a huge disparity sides on controversial issues therr declSlon m the workpalce g~:o:ws with time and carries the we~e. alw~ys. dictated by ·impact of dividing the nation soctahst thmkmg rather than An inherent problem that as the Berlin Wall once did. individual gain. remains is the Eastern delegates must relearn an entirely new system of governing, for through understanding is the only way they will be able to legislate effectively without bias. An inherent problem that remains. though, is in the administraion itself. Coming from separate and very different backgrounds, t_he bureaucrats administration itself • • • the bureaucrats will undoubtedly .formulate opposite opinions on state manners. in voting power. It figures that if Westerners wanted a motion passed, all they would have to do is band together and carry a pn~posal through the House, rendering Eastern dispute We\1 be ~ine. as loro:. as the.\i cbnt rollover- or tak~ the shee.ts .... harassing, and that \hostile even offensive speech in classroom debates and public discourse is something students must endure or challenge with speech of their own.\ Free speech proponents such as writer Nat Hentoff are not buying. Pointing out that cases brought under the codes will be heard by untrained college judicial· panels, not civil libertarians or ACLU attorneys, Mr. Hentoff decries the inevitably vague nature of speech codes. \Most colleges whose 'due process' hearing I've covered are unshakably fond of the British Star Chamber model of the 17th century,\ he remarks sarcastically. \Just the places to deal with these broad and vague restrictions on speech.\ Rules which limit speech are only as good as those who enforce them. Eleanor Holmes Norton, President Carter's chair of the Federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, explained this bitter reality: \It is technically impossible to write an anti- speech code l;hat cannot be twisted against speech nobody means to bar. It has been tried and tried and tried.\ Indeed, speech codes have been defended by voices far less moderate than those of the ACLU's California affiliates. At Stanford University, law professors provided the philosophical rationale for a new studnt conduct policy that one student sponsor candidly admitted \is not entirely in line with the First Amdendment.\ ABA Journal the . ' publication of the American Bar Association, quotes Stanford Law professor Mari Matsuda, who argues that traditional views of free speech act as a self-serving cover for continued domination by majority elites. ln Orwellian fashion, advocates of the code argue that speech limitations would actnally increase free speech and \vigorous debate.\ Discriminatory speech, they reason, is meant to silence the victim. Such arguments are not only clearly opposed to First Amendment principles, they also threaten to undercut the achievement of equal rights. Civil rights activitsts have always relied on speech as their principle weapon. In the long run, any compromise of principles of free speech works to the detriment of minorities~ Irr addition to infringing on free speech, these codes may actually fuel racism. As the recent incident with the music group 2 Live Crew dramatically demonstrates, attempts to censor offensive. views makes martyrs out of the censored. Did the censoring of the album \As Nasty As They Wanna Be\ silence the misogynist lyrics of 2 Live Crew? Definitely not. It showered the band in publicity, It is obvious that Germany's re11nification is a positive step toward further dissipation of tile Iron Curtain. The most serious of social and political problems lie ahead, though. The leaders of Germany displayed the foresight to u11ify. now they must coatinue visionary policies and overcome the hurdle of blending two distinct peoples. thereby propelling them to the top cf the charts. Alan Keys. a former assistant secretary of state, p()ints out that the codes themselves arise out of a racist md .condescending reasoning. In a debate with the professor V~ho wrote the code adopted by Sta11ford University this sp-ring, Mr. Keyes argued against the \partronizing Jlaternalistic assumptions\ llpon which the code is fo'llnded. He expressed surprise that \someone would actually think that I wil actually sit in a clnir and be told that white f()lks have the moral character to shrug off insults and I do not\ Racism is a problem which m11st be addressed with more th.:an misguided measures like limiting offensive speech. Not only are such measures open to abase, they also drive racism underground where it thrives. An academic environment characterized by an unfettered pursuit of truth and knowledge sllould be the ideal forum to ex:pose and defe,at the ignorance that fuels racism. The ACLU's John Powell brcefully argues, \The primary problem is that we haven't begun to seriously discuss racial issues.\ ·He is absolutely right. But the speech-restricting policies he seems to advocate w:ill only have a chilling effect on the needed discussion. (Distributed by the Collegiate Network) L l ' '• ' !

l . ' ,, ' ! '( l t ,. I ) r. { r i t li fi t: li; I\ J : ~ ' v 1 I : . CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 3 New Union President To Be Student Forum Spot- light Inaugurated Continued .from page 1 Voluntary in C fo.r the recessional. Political science professor Byron A. Nichols, marshal. will open the convocation. The invocation will be :given hy William Pearson Tolley. chancellor emeritus of Syracuse University. Norton H. Reamer, a member of the Union <;:lass · of 1958 and chairman of the College's Board of Trustees, will welcome the participants. Greetings will be given from the student body, by John H. Meier, Class of 1991. a • trustee; from the alumni, by Barbara C. Burek of the Class of 1975, a president of the Alumni Council and a trustee; from the faculty, by pelitical science professor Charles M. Tidmarch, chair of the Faculty Executive Committee; from Union University, by Martin H. Belsky, president and dean of Albany Law School; from the Regents of the University of the State of New York, by Laura Bradley Chodos, regent; from sister institutions, by Sara S. Chapman, president of Russell Sage College; and from the city of Schenectady, Karen B. Johnson, mayor. After the greetings, the Union College Choir will sing the anthem, R. Thompson's Alleluia, under the direction of Wilson. Then, Hull will be installed as president by Reamer and as chancellor of Union University by Richard G. Day of the Class of 1939, chairman of the Union University Board of Governors. (The president of Union College also serves as chancellor of Union University, a cooperative association of Union College, Albany Medical College, Albany Law School, Dudley Observatory and Albany College of Pharmacy.) Hull's inaugural address will follow. The ceremony will close with the Ode to Union by the Union College Choir, the benediction by Tolley, and the recessional. Following a two day Hull was elected Union's president in ¥ay by Union's trustees after serving as president of Beloit College in Beloit, Wis., since 1981. He succeeded JohnS. Morris, who retired Aug. 31 as president after 11 years. A native of New York City, Hull received a bachelor's degree, cum laude, from Dartmouth College in Hanover, N.H., in 1964. He earned a law degree from Yale Law School and a master's degree in law and a doctor of juridical science degree from · the University of Virginia. · leadership training seminar last weekend, the Swdent Forum kicked-off this week with its first \On the Road\ meeting of the term. Held in Hickok House, the meeting was used to provide the students there a chance to voice any complaints about the program, and for the Hull has been a New York corporate and securities attorney, special counsel to Gov. Linwood Holton of Virginia, and special assistant to the chairman and deputy staff director at the National Security Council's Interagency Task; Force on the Law of the Sea. In 1976, he joined Syracuse University, where he served as vice president for development and planning and as adjunct professor of international law at Syracuse Law School. · Forum. to find out more about their progress to date. ·It was the first of several meetings that will be held in freshman dorms this year; the Forum hopes to learn as much as possible about the living situation of freshmen in order to aid in the continued improvement of campus living arrangements. Hull has served on several national education commissions and the Board of Visitors of the College of . William and Mary and is a member of the American Bar Association, the New York Bar, the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and the Young President's Organization. He is the co-author of Law and Vietnam (1968) and the author of The Irish Triangle (1976) and has contributed to articles about law and politics and about education to a number of journals and newspapers. He is married to Anne E. Dyson, M.D., a fellow of the American Academy of Pediatrics. · At the activities exposition last Friday, approximately twenty students picked up petitions for Student Forum Class Representative positions. The Forum is pleased with the interest shown to date, but hopes to see even more interest in the next week. Petitions are due on October 19, and it was decided that elections would be held on October 26. Applications for Committee positions are also welcomed at this time. The positions available are listed at the bottom of this page. Of much concern to the Forum was an editorial printed in last week's C o n cor- diensis. In the editorial, incorrect amounts were quoted for the Student Activities Budget, and no one from the 1990-91 Finance Committee was consulted to obtain these figures. The Forum has replied to the Editors of C oncordiensis in this weeks' issue by writing a Letter to the Editor~ Next week's meeting will be held on Monday, October 15, at 5:30 p.m. in room 409 of the College Center. Any comments or suggestions for the Forum are strongly urged and should be directed to Box 533, or to the Student Activities Office. Hickok Program Continues With Positive Outlook Continued from page 1 students could undertake a number of programs and projects on their own . . . unrealistic to expect freshmen to do this.\ Dean Mammola is quick to point out that the program went reasonably well and cites the strong relationships formed through the students' success and failures together as an example. With the program's success and failures in mind, Dean Mammola decided to continue the program with hopes for a more positive outcome this year. He* began by his appointment of Dean .Alford who will be assisted by Steve Hnat as graduate coordinator. Steve will act as a liaison between the Dean and students as well as initiate and carry through many activities for the group. In addition, Dean Mammola has attempted to increase faculty involvement by having · professor Scott Scullion, who served as a useful faculty advisor last year, continue in this position again this year. An advisory committee was also formed. Dean Schadler, Prof. Byron Nichols, and Lee Bloomrosen serve on this committee. They will be there to assist and it is hoped that \the natural instinct of the group will emerge to carry out these activities,\ notes Dean Alford. This year's program was launched by a student faculty dinner at Hale House on Wednesday, Oct. 3. This gave the students their first opportunity to get to know some of the faculty through a political and ehtical discussion led by Byron Nichols, the keynote speaker. This weekend Hickok is planning a dinner for the students and their parents as well as additional activities for this Homecoming weekend. The students are energetic and seem to be happy with the arrangements so far. Although as noted by one participant that · not much of the program has been implemented as of yet, all are optimistic about the upcoming year. Dean Mammola shares their optimism and feels that with all the program's successes and failures \it is important to try new things.\ Sorority Still Seeks Space Continued from page 1 campus dormitories, Gamma Phi Beta has a strong case for receiving on campus housing. The sorority has enough members living on-campus now, plus additional members living off campus who would be willing to move on campus to maintain an occupancy rate of over 90%. Currently, there are about 150 empty beds in campus housing. Also, the sorority has waited patiently on the list for housing for quite a while. However, the main glitch in allocating housing to Gamma Phi Beta is the S.A.C.'s policy of not giving new housing to Greek organizations. This policy must first be overturned before the request can be reviewed. Dean Mammola was quoted in the May 24, 1990 issue of Concordiensis as saying \It is time that the question be reopened as to whether Gamma Phi Beta should be given on- camping housing.\ When asked Monday about his current position on this he said that it \remains the same as last spring and that in the course of the near future it (Gamma Phi's request) will be reviewed by the S.A.C.\ Also, President H u 11 is forming a com m i ttec, consisting of a broad representation of the student body, to examine the current allocation of housing on campus and the College's options for future housing allocation. This committee will make recommendations to the S.A.C. Dean Mammola said that after this has been done then \the issue of housing for all can be examined, including Gamma Phi Beta.\ Reported Security Incidents 10/01-10/06/90 10/01/90 WEST CDLLESE YANDALlS\ TO THE 4TH fLOOR CEILING 10/01190 fOX HOUSE STUDENT REPORTS TROUBLE WITH NON-STUDENTS The Following Campus Committees are now accepting J0/01/90 HASKINS Lt\B 10/01/90 DAVIDSON HOIJSE 10/02190 t:OLLESE CENTER 10/02190 TURF FIELD 10/03/90 COLLEGE CENTER 10/03190 COLLEGE CENTER 10/03/90 FOX/DAVIDSON LOT 10/03/90 SCHAFFER LIBRARY 10/04/90 FIELDHOUSE 10/04/90 POTTER LOT 10/04/90 516 CHI 10/04/90 DAVIDSDN liOUSE 10/04/90 EDWARDS KDUSE 10/04/90 RICHnOND COLLEGE 10/05/90 STI ENMETZ HALL 10/05/90 HUHANITIES 10/05!90 SOCIAl SCIENCES 10/06/90 WEST COLLE&E l0/06190 PSI U. VEHICLE fOUND VANDALIZED RESIDENT REPORTS SOKEONE BANGING ON DOOR STAff INJURED VANDALISn REPORTED BY STAFF TRESPASSER HARNED orr CAKPUS THEFT OF BICYCLE PARTS TRESPASSER REPORTED IN LOT FLOODING OF BASEHENT REPORTED BY HOUSEKEEPING ATTEnPTED BREAK IN REPORTED STUDENT VEHICLE VAND~LIZED BREAK IN REPORTED NDN-STUDENTS REPORTED IN BUILDING REPORT or \ISSlNS PRDPERTY DISTURBING PHONE CALLS REPORTED WALLET STOLEN fROfl OFFICE PURSE STOLEN FROH DFF!CE LIGHT POLE VAUDALilfD_ OI!SCE.HE.-P.OONe-tm:tS\WORT& sTUDENT VECHICLE VANDALIZED student applications: Academic Affairs Council ....... 1 position Writing Board .................... 1 position Concert Comrni ttee ..... 5. ~I •••• e •• 1 position Honorary Degrees .............. D .1 position Student Grounds ... I ••••••••••• 2 positions Students Traffic ................ 2 positions Applications can be turned in to the Student Activities Officea College Center ·- 4th Floor

. ·' ·a' ·l r '··· ·~ ·'f!lit'6'b~~~f 1 i'•'199tP . .. . .. . - . . -. . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . _ . . . . . __ ... . . . .C'rJNt. . 1!-U .lfffi'$.'~-il...,_ .. . . .. _ .... ··' .. ~. . . . . . .. .. . . .._ \')_ ..... .............. ..., __ .. -- . . FEATURES Mastering The Art Of Procrastination Getting The Most Out Of Your Union Education Ry KAREN BURNS PROCRASTINATE, v, put off to another time. There are· many different types of \procrastinating\, common examples are procrastinating to do work, to exercise, to go out, to clean etc. This list could go on endlessly. Howe\fer, the point is that everything is interrelated. The basis of all procrastinating is school work. Everyone chooses various activities to avoid doing work. Consequently, these \other\ activities seem necessary at the time but in reality they are only distractions. Who can honestly say they have not watched T.V. instead of doing a paper or studying for a test? The problem is that we rationalize our behavior by saying that we are \taking a study break\. Most often the actual studying has not yet begun. The phone is also a great alternative. There may be a phone call home to complain about \all of the work I have\ or a phone call to a friend to compaJe who has more work. The most desirable situation is a phone call to a friend in the class. The conversation may start out to be work -related but it undoubtedly loses its focus and becomes meaningless chatter. A study group is a good way to socialize while doing work. The group always begins with a purpose but slowly turns into a gossip session. It tisually takes 2 or 3 hours of wasted time before a \throat\ in tile gr<>up decides to go get some work done elsewhere. A.t tllis point, the remaining pei(Jple may look at each other anti calmly decide \if we don't knC»w it by now we never will\ a11d call it a night. The familiar scenmo reappears: time passin~ with no work accomplishoo. Eating lu11cl1 Gr dinner can provide time to avoid getting started ()fl work. The rationalizing reappears: \I want to eat now ()f I'll: have to take a break from IJl::Y studying later\. There is justification to this reasoning. Allilough, it is an obvious excllse. to socialize. In addition, if ne:re is a meeting that night tben there is no reason to sUlr't the work until after the meetin_g. Another type of procrastinatie»n is a result of the GUILT fa..cter. After a few days of surver}ng everyone in a class it is easie:r to decide if it is actually n.elJessary to get started on tile ~ssignment. If a majority of tlle dass has started the assig11rn ent it may motivate the laz:y individual. However, the fact is that no one really Vl2nts to feel the pressure to g;e:t started. If a majority of tlle cl2ss is clueless then there is 110 reason to get ahead of thee g;arne. It is just another excuse to go out or to sit around d.oing nothing (occasionally THINKING Newman Tuesday, October 16th Color Halloween Cards tor Local Shut-Ins Join us for supper at 5 p.m. CC 203 or Y~v,Coloring s:ao - 6:30 ll~'m. ..,_...........,~~·,-:, All Welcome! All materials provided. about these future deadlines). Everyone wakes up on Monday with a new attitude. There is \tons\ of work to be done for the week. The weekend was overly relaxing because !he past week was stressfnl. Thus, there was no studying done from Friday after class until Sunday. A paper that is due on Wednesday was supposed to get started on Sunday night. Yet, the campus movie was too tempting (even though it was probably seen once before). There is a strict promise made that there will be no socializing until th.e weekend \I'm definitely not going out.. .I have so much work\. The work gets started on Monday and Tuesday with the usual breaks for T.V. (especially jeopardy because it's educational). However, on Wednesday the idea of going out surfaces early in the day. The definite \no\ changes to a \maybe\ later that night. If everyone is going out (even though they are complaining of work) then it makes the situation seem justifiable. There is no way to stop being a \procrastinator\. Everyone has tried unsuccessfully to change their lazy ways but it never ends up happening. The main problem is that most people firmly believe they work better \under pressure\. It would be highly unlikely to begin something too far in advance because that would make too much sense. As long as things get done eventually then there is nothing to be concerned about, right? By ADAM REISMAN Over the summer, the brothers and sisters of Delta · Psi Delta worked to compile a list of community service · organizations. The resulting handbook, . entitled \Going Beyond the Gate,\ is readily available to students at the Career Development Center Library and at the Student Activities Office. A Union College education • is more than just classrooms . and homework. Extracunicular · activities play a significant role · in determining who we are and who we will be in the future. Working in the community not only allows students to broaden their horizons, but also to explore possible career dirctions. At the same time, one is given the opportunity to help groups less fortunate than ourselves, such as tile poor, the sick and the handic~pped. \Going Beyond the Gate\ presents students with brief descriptions and vital informatiolil on local organizations that are in need of volunteers. Many Union students, whether asindividuals or as groups, have already donated their time and energy to the Schenectady community. This handbook, while not exhaustive or extremely detailed in scope, is designed to help you find an organization with which y<>u may be interested in working. The chance to aid otbers in the community lies just beyond the Union campus - use \Going Beyond the Gate\ to discover it for yourselves. Would You like To Learn How To Meditate? Meditation reduces stress and improves concentration. MEDITATION STUDY GROUP EVERY THURSDAY AT 4 PM IN COLLEGE CENTER 410 Beginners are welcome any time cl1.1ring the term. Instructions on how to meditate are given at the start of every meeting. -52nd Year- These Fellowships were established bl honor of Amelia Ear:&art, Zonta member, 1928·1937. Amelia Earhart was an internationally famous flyer when she disappeared in 1937 on a round-the-world flight. She had been the first woman to fly across the Atlantic as a passenger in an airplane in 1928, the first woman to make a solo transatlantic flight in 1932, and the first person to fly from Hawaii to California in 1935. She broke altitude records in an autogiro and speed records in transcontinental air races. The Fellowships are open to women of any nationality and grants may be used in any institution offering fully accredited graduate courses and degrees in aerospace-related science and engineering. Awards have been made for study in such fields as aerospace engineering -astronomy-astrophysics-biomedical engineering-computer science-fluid mechanics-geological oceanography-meteorology-molecular biology-space medicine. Applications must be postmarked by ZONTA nn:BRliTAnO:NAL P01JNDAnON\ De=nbe< 31, 1990 md \\\ived ·~~ 557 W. Randolph Street at ZONTA INTERNATIONAL's Head· , Chicago, Illihois 60606-2284 USA quarters Office by january 5, 1991. .J f zt tl (3 12) 930-5848 For further information and appli- Ll.!!!lJI Telex: 190200 UT cation forms, contact: Fax: (312) 930-0951 ZOIIT.A INTEDAnOIIIAL is a worldwide service organization of executives in busi- ness and the professions who work to improve the legal, political, and professional status of women. ! : ~ .. f

1 i ,, f Union College Professor Writes Book Q,n Henry James A Union College English professor has, written a book e:xploring author H~nry James' vision of Italy as t~ld through his travel essays and short stories. UMI Research Press of Ann Arbor, MI, has published '\Henry James's Italian Hou~rs: Revelatory ·and Resistant Impressions\ ·by Bonney MacD~llald of Cobleskill, NY, assistant professor of English.. MacDonald sets James' early essays in Italian Hours and the short stories <lf the early 1870s in the conte~t of 19th- century tourism and travel writing. She reviews how James atempted to place himself in relation to his chosen subject~ and she suggests ways in which James' vision of Italy might be seen not only in aesthetic terms but in a biological and religious context as well. MacDonald came to Union in 1988 after working as an instructor o1 English and American Studies at Yale University, where she earned a doctorate and a master's degree in American Studies in 1988 and 1984. res})ectively. She received a master's degree in American literature from Nottingham University, England, in 1979, and a bachelor's degree in English from California State University, Sacramento, in 1978. A specialist in 19th-century American literature, MacDonald has written articles about James and given presnetations on James, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Edith Wharton and Walt Whitman. THE PEACE CORPS IS IN TOWN: Recruiters wiH be conducting an information session ancl film showing on the UNION COLLEGE Campus on Wednesday, October 10 from 7:0 0 to 9:00 p.m. in the College Center Room 409. This event is free and open to the public. For more information call Peace Corps (collee:t) at 212-264..;6981. ··-------. ---·· • 1991 • ...-- FORD FOUNDATION PREDOCTORAL AND DISSERTATION FELLOWSHIPS FOR MIN.ORITIES Program: Approximately 55 Predoctoral Fellowships.and 20 Dissertation Fellowships to ba awarded in a nationwide ~mpetltion sponsored by the Ford Foundation and administered by the National Research Council. Eligibility Requirement&: 1, Applicants must be Unita<l States citizens or nationals whO are members of one of the following ethnic minority groups: NativeArnerican Indian, Alaskan Native (Esklmo or A.leut), BlackJA.frican American. Mexican American/Cillcano, Native Pacific Islander (Polynesian or Micronesian), or Puerto Rican. 2. Awards will be made tor study in research-based doctoral programs (PhD or SeD) in the behavioral and social sciences, hulllanities, engineering,. mathematics. physical sciences and biological sciences, or tor lnterdisc:iplinary programs composed ot IWO or mora. eligible disciplines. 3. Individuals holding a doctoral degree in any field.are not eligible to apply. 4. Predoctorat award applic.aMs must. not have completed, by the beginning otthe Fall 1990 term. more than 30 semester hours. 45 quarter hours, or equ•valent. of graduate•level study in fields supported by tillS program. Dissen:auon award. applicants must have completed all required course work and examinations except for the-defense of the dissertation, and must have been admitted to doctoral degree candidacy by JanualY 31 , 1991. 5, Scores trom the Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) General Test are required for all Predoctoral Fellowship applicants. Stipends and Allowances: Each Predoctcral award Includes an annual stipend ot $11,500 to the Fellow, and an annual institutional allowance of $6,000 to the fellowship institution in lieu oftuiUon and fees; each Pradcctcral aVIard provides up to a mBJ(imum of three years of support. Each Dissertation award consists of an annual stipend of $18.000 to the Fellow: Dissertation awards are net renewable. Thora will be no dependanc:y or travel allowances for Predoctoral and Dissertation Fallows. Application Deadline Oate: November 9, 1990 Fer Information and Apl)llcation Materials Write to: The FeUowstllj) Olflce, GR 420A National Research Council 2101 ConstituiOOn Avenue Washington. o_c, 20418 OR Tolep~ne: (202) 334-2872 FEATURES Chronicling A Campus Chronicle • • • Continued from page 1 the events. The Association of Colleges and Preparatory Schools in the Middle States and Mary land, meeting in Trenton, New Jersey \urge(d) the early establishment of a joint college. admission examination board .. . . which shall e:qdeavor to bring about as rapidly as possible an agreement upon a uniform statement as to each subject requried by two or more colleges for admission. . . \ Nothing new under the sun, you say.· The content of the Concordiensis over the years has remained fairly constant. Its presentation, however, has undergone dramatic changes. The first issue of C o n c o r d i e n s i s was in November, 1877. The format of the paper was drastically different. The masthead was without an emblem or a motto. The pages were about half the length of their modern counterparts, and each contained two columns, though the columns were somewhat wider. Personals, Even in 1877 community what they were doing now, much the same as what appears in the Union College magazine. The paper was published monthly, and all students were sent their own personal copy. then billed for it. If a student wished not to purchase the WHAT' 'THE OE:AL I ~ ASO\'T ~IRL s DN \. . . we desire to increase literary interest by inducing an emulation and pride in ability as writers, and in taste as readers, which shall be worthy of our institution.\ By 1900, the paper had expanded and taken on a new look, though still more similar oO 0 It is no wonder that the personals are so popular today. Though they have not been part of the paper without interruption, they did make their debut in the very first issue. They were personals of a different sort, however. They were announcements from alumni informing the Union The October 1, 1970 edition commented on Union's decision to go co-ed. Concordiensis, he had to send a written statement to the editors. The first editorial delineated the what and wherefore of the new publication as follows: \ 10 THE CONCORDIENSIS. THE CONCORDIENSIS. BY THB 8TUDBN,TB OF UlUOl'l COLLHOR. JJOARD Oil l!DI7'UJI3: MAJOU Ar.J.HN 'rwJPORU ·oa. . I~dltor in Chh•r W A.t.TKil. L IluuuiNR, '06, - BntdneHH Mntu\gl•r WJt,J.UM H. H.u.I,, '96, · · Llturu.ry I<:dit.(Jr EuWAJLU K DI~APtm, AIIMt. llut~inot~.tJ Mn.JUlf.:t'r tx\~~~A:!.!:, ~~~=::~: :~i: l A~IMtlLnt gd1fur'\ HUJIURLL U.untNt\oN, 'lJ7, \ ~;1 1 :.~:1)1~~~~~t~1~~~ .. 'ON / Jl,·purl••rml ~lntf P. P. 8HJtlU1AN, 'IJ:M, \ 'fltllM\ $2tHI l'Hil Yu:.o.n 1-.. .\In \~t-h Adtlrl'\\ nlll'umtulilllt'Jdloll,. !11 Till• ~~ .. ...,~ •>~tit! •rmc CoNcoumJt~'{J~ nimH tn l.Jomu \Oltl Uulou \ PATU.ONJ7,1( our- lHh'l'rtlm•t'lt ~ It will ptl)\ yun h1 the end llo'll·'l' forJ.:t•t thnt '1'111\ l'n\c'niiiHit'\'~ ln•ltoiiJ:K to·tht• \'UJI(•J.:t•, IUtt f11 f)u_• t'l)ift>r'i (It 1\;lri\' Ulll• kiJOWt< 1\ll)f n!tttlltll III'Wrl,ft•• IIIUf(t•r 1 ••fwlmt khnl, will ill'!,,, Ml It I IIIII\' tu h1r11it<h u .. wlth fit~. ,y,. wnut tn h•· nl th•· fr.,llt 111 tlu\' hu•• \\ w,•!l , \\'11 nllt~tht•rl' Tit,. uht111tt1 nr•• 1\1•' hfo• u( th•• ~· .. .,lJI'J-:1'. ILUoll)u·~ Ctll~hl t .. l't-•o'J\1' f)ll\il\ ..,)UHI' 1:\Jdi\ 1uu11 \' , .. u, ~· -.h .... lol p.Ltr .. tlll•· \'H n•ht•rlt\•'t'!'l \\., h,J\t· .. ,.,.,,r•·ol f\11 •• ,,.,•llt•ul h.o.;! .. r 1•11 .. 11\'\'\ \utll\'•·~ 111 ull !nw., .. r lrnd•·. lnolh 111 1111-.. •·tt) auo\ n•IJ<~•'''\' \'\ .... u1d '\' •·n11 r•·•·\'\ KS,I~. Hux !!!H. H•·hunPrlluly. :\/ \' ~ , \\ 1ool r I\ '\ n ..... n 1\~ ,, \ .. ,., llnlo 1, · 11 '' \\ ,., ,. \1\1 f, '' i-.PICICJ llltht l'uol om(c .u \'cloo:-ltt~ Uoly. N \ .. '\' ·~- ...... ,J ... , ··~···· • >11 r 1\.t \I r 1•~· I ... •Ill I• 'I .. ·t .... ,,, \ II• ·I ' \I ~I ~-' ..,,,,' \\ o _\111!1 \)'!''\'·'''\'' 111•\ l'••fJ,.Iol<o 11 .. 111 r .. l oto CMo'll. IIVII.~O•o. Plli~YI N ~~., ••>oOI•, IIOOt~IC'•••• ~ • 1:--.1~1 Ill..\ I\,, Ill \ ••ll Ill II..- • 11•1 II• IJ• tho· o odlo ~·· STUDENTS, ATTENTION! AcDP70ftbefir•t.nu.mbe .. ofTBEC0N(;01t·, ,J,.,.,,,. '!>-•••· '\ •••\\-. lro-111 . .11 rlu .. 11 .. -r do·to,tl\ DIENBIB.,.llH~Q~~Ih:ul tq op_)(pry1;11D.Dlboollog.,. 11,• H'' ,.! 11 .. I'\\ .• ,1. '\ • 1 .. :,. · · 1\·.! 11 .. ,, If ;:you do not wleb t.he pa.pt~r eootinu11:1d, pleaaso . ••••:.:hi t •• J., .. 1, l '\' t •··1.•1••·••\1\1' J, 1 \' 11 .tll II•· not.lt'J'Lb\!'Bu•ineuManarrto tbJiiot<elfllcl, Uo·;•lt-pM111t•lll'~. nn•l \\•' \\'\~ 111 11J1., \\a) '\ lofii•O: le. wo are ad..-t.ed to '&he contr&ry, we eball 1 1 t 1 d\''' t I•. ~ .. ,,., -1 • ..:•, . 11 .. ·tu.t. 11f, \' 1•r• .. , '\ ~ tbe name• or all •ta.denta upon our •ub- ~ , 11 .. uv ,(,· 1 ~ar1Ju• 111 11, •,, ),,,,\'! ••11.11 , ... .;\Ill~''\ aerlption llat, -.nd a.aJl UJH'Ib th~:~m ror tbt~ sub- 111 11 ,,,,clJ,·r l•11t .• , ,,1,, \'\ '\''I\ f .. 1 .1l•!• t. 1C1\tpttoo prtetJ of two dolla.re. Send all cha.u~a -..up]tl)' 1ilt•ln \Uh t I Pit utrnr11ml1uu or atldrella to the Bo.ai~e•• M&-Dag-t'r. BOX 213. TO THE ALUMNI. THE CONOORDIE~81El will hoe eonUnued &o allortut,-e&r'l •ubserlbe-rw ualeu It h or-dll!!ntd dt.<ontlnned. U AM' chulp of &<ldroH lo d~ •lrtd• pteaae noUI'J Ule DUIJ.De-u Manager. BOX U3. llchoaoeto.d7, N. V. WH AIM u, be better n~xt time. WHAT-do yuu thiuk of mu·new dtt-s:f\r 'VH AUK nlway1:1 TtUUiy for augget~tlnns. lr \YOIJ don't ooe what y()u wtmt, ~k fur it. 8tJJ380RlDK for 'l'UK CONCOIUHBNSIU. borrow your chuw•._ · ])on•t \Vtrll th1~ 11111nl ... r .. r Tut, c·,,,,,u•rl,, .. ,., lw~orlu~ JI<4Hiw·lc-••t~1h~··t~ru(t·\'\'\'l!'•' lum•t·nr•l w1th tlt•• 1\tl\ntH't'.._ thnt nrt• 111•ln;.! mn•lt• 11y lhl' .. ,!\, .:• >I< ,,r, ~lrll Hot-: 1., 1-,, • )' ''I• t\,. '-\\\ I'\\ \Vh,•t.)H•r Wt• art• doinl{ il or uut Wt• I•·,,,.,. fur Y'\' tn tlt~t·idt•. 'J.hiH iH tlu• Hmt lnuml thnl lmn hl'l'U mult•r tlw rul&•!i th11t IWW J;U\'t•rn tim IIIUIIZ4;CIIIl'11l of 'l'HJ( Co:se•utiHK:'IOSI'\I ,1uul thoMo hLwr~ wUJ bu l'-nrril'd \JUt t<J lht..,h•th.•r. Wt.• think thuy t~ru guod UJH'K, mul tw tht• pupt•r nuw tlccln.n•t4 n dlvldmul fur nthh•tlt'H u.fttlr tlw otllcurH of tlm 1•1\tx;r. hll.vo Mn l''~itl, wu tll.l~·rw rt•nKun why uwry mun Jn coiJl•t:o Hhoultlnot Mupport lt.. 1t lu o. cniiL•gll organ, n.ml nn orgnn that can do the collt~ge ~~ VU.K)n.tuount <t( gomt if It rect.•lVl!ll thu hl*IU'ly HllllJIOrt ur n)l tint utuduuia. We lmve no tlouht hut wlmt it will, fur wo think Union Colll'~e men \'k.nuw 1\ g()()t} thing when they\\\ It,\ to the first editions than to today's. It was not until after World War II that Concord i ens is was distributed free of charge. Throughout its history, Concordiensis has bad varying publishing schedules. It has appeared on Tuesday,Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, and has been published monthly. twice monthly, weekly and twice weekly. The masthead underwent its most radical change in the late 1970's when the paper's name appeared in all lower case lettering. That change was quickly reversed, when the paper went back to its more formal masthead, which is what appears today. Concordiensis has had a number of different mottos, but the strangest had to be that which appeared in the late 1960's. It read \A Causa Persa Parole Assai,\ which was loosely translated by a team of Union professors as \enough is said about a lost cause.\ The words are believed to be a cross between more than one ancient and Romance languages. Microfilms of the Concordiensis are available in• the basement of Schaffer Lmrary. Attention }~resbman Preceptorial Students! Greek Directories In the College on Sale! Center Help yourself to a better understanding of Machiavelli's Prince. Spend a half hour with a new computer tutorial called \macPrince\ ·created just for you.. . It's available on the Macintosh computers in the CHp-C room (Humamtl~s 016) and in the Ma.cintosh lab (Steinmetz 100). InstructiOns can be found m both locations. , If you ha-ve your own Macintosh or ac~ess to someone else s,. get a F~E diskette containing the tutorial at the Instructional Technology office m Humamties 020. ' . Need more information? Call Professor Sargent at 370-6360. Tuesday!/ October 16, Friday~ October 10:00 - 2:00 19 Look for Them Sponsored by IFC & Pan hellenic

Page 6 ' '~ CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES And Now for Sprachvergni.igen A TUViE correspondent muses about a much maligned ianguage that suddenly many feel they should iearn Courtesy of TIME 6/25/90 By DANIEL BENJAMIN BERLIJ'\ ~fir is to remain as it is. it ought ro be g.c:m(r and reveremly set aside among the dead languages. for on~r the dead hm ·e time rn /cam ir. -Mark Twain S o judged Missouri's greatest cul- tural critic in 1880 regarding what he called \the Awful German Language.\ and it is probably safe to say that the popular appra isa-1 of the tongue has not moved far since. A fair verdict? As Ger- many emerges from the par- tial eclipse known as \the Postwar.\ the que~tion has fresh urgency: politi- cians. businessmen and. dare it be whispered. even jounmlists now need Ger- man more than they have for a half-century. One of the hallmarks. after all. of great-power status is that otrers-even those who hail from other great powers-must learn to speak your language. That is sure to occasion anguished edi- fication for those who study the lang-uage of Goethe. Kafka and Freud, but it may provide a few pleasant surprises as well. As my own recent and none-too-ele_gant plunge into the language at the Goethe-In- stitut in Berlin demonstrated, learning German is hardlv the ordeal of a lifetime, but neither is there an escalator up the mae:ic mountain offluencv. True. some of the ho~riest complaints about German are as applicable today as thev were when Twain wrote. To the stu- dent. nouns evince an urge for unification, glutinizing'into tongue-wrenching heaps of meaning, while the dreaded trennbare, or separable. verbs divide into pieces-a kind of linguistic mitosis that leaves clumps of information floating around the sentence. Finding that truffle among words. a truly regular verb that pulls no tricks in the past perfect tense and behaves in the preterit like a preterit should. is a moment of sub- ;ime pleasure-provided that one can re- member how regular verbs are conjugated. Although German prose styles tend to- ward relative sparseness these days. a sen- tence can still stretch on well beyond the patience of the English speaker. One may be left exhausted and bewildered after navir:atine: throu2h cascades of clauses that lead -to th'e clusi\~e verb at the very end that explains everything. For sheer frustration. however. little compares with the task of remembering what gender each noun is~ and hence wbether a der (masculine). die (feminine) or das (neuter) needs to be af- fi.xed in front of it. And then. of course. there are the declensions ... So what are the compensating virtues? For an English speaker, there is only one, but it is quite substantial: basic vocabulary. As linguistic cousins, German and English share a large stock of cognates. words that are spelled alike and mean the same thing-for example. person, winter and arm. Plenty of words have only slight differences: if you're ner- vous in English. you're nen·os in German. With a little imagination. one can find any number of common roots. Take, for example, the verb to smell: riechen, from the same root as the English reeks. The mal- odorousness does not exist in the German word, but the odor does. As with many languages, German vocabulary in the 20th century has become even more acces- sible to English speakers. In addition to all those words with a common etymology, the ranks of German words that are easily rec- ognizable have been swelled by hundreds of borrowings from computer to fiustrieren, a particular favorite among verbs. All in all, roughly a quarter of the most common- ly used words in English and German are identical or similar enough to be under- standable. Thus for the uninitiated, it is probably easier to pick up the gist of a con- versation in German than one in most oth- er languages. No small satisfaction. However new initiates fare-and en- rollment in German courses around the world is rapidly increasing-one thing is certain: Germany's regained prominence will give a fillip to wider usage of the lan- guage. and is bound as well to contribute more words to other tongues. Already tele- vision viewers in the U.S. have seen signs of a heightened linguistic confidence on the part of the Germans. A recent exam- ple: a Volkswagen ad campaign that cen- ters on the word Faluvergniigen, or joy in driving-however mispronounced it may be in the commercials. Only a few years ago. the use of a German word in an adver- tisement in Ene:lish would have been avoided. if onlv b'ecause the sound of Ger- man was asso~iatcd with the bad guys in World War II movies. Today Fahr-and other Vergniigen -may be here to stay. • International students celebrate the reunification of Germany, with what else--German beer. lnternatl().nal Trivia - 1. What European country apart from Britain has provided the most ·immigrants to Australia? 2. What country did WinstonChurchill call a \sleeping giant\? 3. How many ft. tall was the Berlin Wall: 6,9, 12? 4. What are the (2) biggest cities in Australia? 5. Which produces more wine--North America or South America? 6. What country is the origin of the chilled soup called Gazpacho? 7. What country produces the most ,garbage? , 8. What's the most spoken language in Ireland? 9. What (2) airlines fly the Concord? 1 0. What do you say when you raise a glass at Munich's Oktoberfest? l!SOJd '0 ~ a:>UBJ.:i J!\f ~ SABMJ!V lJS!l!J8 . 6 lJS!IDU3 ·g ·v·s·n at~.L ·L U!BdS '9 \eO!J9WV lllOOS ·g auJnOQI9V\I ~ A9UPAS ·v z~ ·E BU!LIO ·z AJBll . ~ :sJaMSU\1 The ASU presents their 2nd annual Student/Faculty Reception, Thursday October 11, 1990 at 4:30 o.m. JusT Do IT!. in the Milano Lounge in Hale House. All are welcome! Write Any Upperclassmen presently on the Meal Plan who wishes to change to another plan for Winter Term should do so in the Dining Services Office by October 26, 1990. If you wish to drop the Meal Plan for Winter Term, now is the time to do it. Those students who are not on a Meal Plan and wish to sign up for one, should do so in the Dining Services Office also by October 26, 1990. Dear Campus Community, We are trying to enrich our campus by continuing a \Multicultural Dining Table.\ Our purpose is to engage in conversation stressing concepts such as \diversity\, \pluralism\, and \appreciation of differences.\ We hope that these conversations will provide an opportunity for our minorities and majority to acknowledge and build mutual respect for their similarities as well as differences. Please help us to reach this important goal by volunteering to join us. If you are interested, in hosting a table or leading a discussion, please call Twitty Styles - Biology, Phone -63 31, or John Sowa - Chemistry, Phone - 6340. International Features La rae Jill x6836 x6833 I I j,

I I j, I )J'•~:·f~·~ 1\ -~-~.l'''':t'J!\~ ~;.\~\·~:,,:~·~\~J.·~·~,J'~~- . .f~(';.~ :·~: ~~ :--•\\' :~·-- ~'\':·~ ~---~._ ..... <o ••\\'\\~-·•·'\. -~-'\•\'- '- kn~'\'\ •· '\'\'\'\'\ \ ...... .._, . ..,_... .. ,_,~- ,.., •·- • '''-'\-\\- 0>.,...: & .,_-.,,,<t\ ~--,._ • ..., •• ,. ...... ~-~ .,.~--•-. &\••·\,_<>\•••-•• ..... .,., , •• .,..,. .,...,. • ·~,. -• • CONCORDJENSIS, October 11, 1990 D i.• . . ~: . . . ·.:1! ' . . ' . INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student Of The Week: \ :1<···· . -~ j ? \'14: Andrey the KGB Agent (but what are those?-flying bananas?) \I am fondling you with my eyes.\ J Andrey the ham-always looking for atte.ntion and always somehow able to get it. Andrey Fyodorov Andrey The Russian By LAI HOM Who is he that's chasing after you across the cafeteria to offer you \a bit\ of his banana? Who is he that is swinging the towel on his hips ruthlessly before bashful girls and claims to have a \backup system\ beneath that towel? Who is he that's singing the Russian anthem in the shower? You can't miss him if you've been living the past few weeks. He is Andrey Fvodorov, the foreigh exchange student from Moscow. After living with Andrey for three weeks, the residents of the International House · unanimously come to the conclusion that he's not your typical Bolshevik as portrayed by the movies. Far from being reticent, solemn, and dispassionate, Andrey's lively, fun, and perhaps too gregarious. He's . forever trying to brighten our days with Russian jokes. Maybe it's a case of culture gap but we haven't had any good laughs at his jokes. We never leave him for long, fearing that he will say something incredibly funny or pull some marvelous stunts in our absence. Even though he's only been here a few weeks, he's already a small celebrity. Even presidents of fraternities came to visit him, bearing gifts. Of course, there's a serious side to Andrey. He comes to us from Moscow State Technical University as a bio-medical engineer. He's extremely talented; not only does he play the French hom and the piano with some expertise, he can sing, too, although off-key. Like a typical American guy, Unfortunately, Andrey won't quit until we show due appreciatoin by laughing until \Yesterday I cut myself 3 times while shaving-- it was like I was drunk, but it was because I was sleepy and I was singing ... La Ia Ia Ia Ia Oh Sh_. La Ia Ia Ia Ia Oh Sh_ La Ia Ia Ia Ia Oh Sh_ (and then there were puddles of blood Oh !\ Andrey knows how to get the women ... Did You Know That in England ••• The thin fries (like in McDonald's) are french fries, the thicker fries are called chips, chips are crisps, and rippled chips are crinkle-cut crisps! (Repeat that ten times) we're rolling on the floor. His stubborn yet stupid roommate learned a hard lesson. He got Audrey Fepeating the same stupid joke (There's a plane and it crashes. The pilot dies. The frreman runs away.) to him at three in the morning for the millionth time. If you,..don't want to be in his shoes,\ you'd · better pretend to be deaf or spray laughing gas on yourself quick the next time that Andrey offers to tell a joke. Fortunately, his person is much funnier than his jokes. his favorite pastime is baseball. In Moscow, he was outfielder for his school's team. He hopes to play for Union in the spring. We all love Andrey. We don't want him to leave. It's our hope that he will fall in love and marry an American girl. But, of course, with the blessings of Gorbachev and George Bush. Andrey the student-a side of him we don't see very often. \Where is my scambook? I need it.\ \Oh No! I already ate this fortune cookie--1 did not know there was something inside!\ This Week • ID the News 1. At least 19 Palestinians were killed and more than 100 wounded during an hour long battle outside AI Aksa Mosque between Israeli policemen and thousands of Arabs hurling rocks and bottles at Jews praying at the Western Wall below. 2. Brazil tried to build an atom bomb, the new Government's top science official says. The official, Jose Goldemberg, secretary of science and technology, said the project was started in 1975 under the presidency of Ernesto Geisel, an Anny general. 3. Political violence has hit Guatemala as it prepares for presidential, legislative and municipal elections in November. The coming election is to lead to a democratic watershed: power is to be transferred from one elected civilian to another. 4. Negotiations in South Africa between the Government and the African National Congress have been slowed by a disagreement over whether rightwing whites inside South Africa's security apparatus are orchesu·ating the recent violence among blacks. 5. Tokyo Journal: Most Japanese seem less than obsessed by the debate over whether Emperor Akihito becomes a deity next month when he is formally elevated to the Chrysanthemum Throne. But some specialists are locked in a bitter clash. Courtesy of The New York Times

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 ENVIRONMENTAL Cousteau Team Member To Address. Threats to Global Ocean On Friday night, October 12, the Union College community will have a chance to get an inside look into the Cousteau Society's latest exploration, The Rediscovery of the World. In an event sponsored by the Union College Speakers Forum, Cousteau team member David 0. Brown will speak on the \Threats to the Global Ocean\ in Memorial Chapel at 8 pm. On its current expedition, the Cousteau Society is documenting and interpreting man's relationship to the global ocean. Major threats to the living sea occur where sea meets shore, bringing humankind into direct contact with the ocean. This presentation will discuss such threats as the release of wastes into the environment at a greater rate than they can be assimilated; conversion of complex, highly diverse ecosystems ii'to low- diversity, predominantly human ecosystems; the increasing demands of too many people on natural resources; and the recent threat to Alaska's coastline caused by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. Examples from Cousteau Society studies underscore the problems in the Mediterranean Sea, the southern California coast, the Mississippi/ Missouri River system, the Amazon River, coral reef systems, the Alaskan coastline, and the island of Haiti. The plight of marine animals - who have experienced the effects of pollution, habitat loss, and overfishing - serves as a culminating illustration of the threats humankind poses to itself and to the global ocean. Mr. Brown serves as a liaison between the public and the Cousteau Society, dividing his time between expeditions and the lecture circuit. He brings varied background to his unique job, including work as a researcher, naturalist and photographer on whale research projects off the New England coast, as well as oceanographic research in the Sargasso Sea and the West Indies. After graduating from Cornell University, he earned a United States Coast Guard Marine Operator's license sailing aboard various vessels off the East Coast of the United States and throughout the Caribbean. A certified diver, he has explored the undersea world in all regions that he has sailed. Since joining the Cousteau Society in 1984, Mr. Brown has sailed both oceans aboard Calypso and the windship Alcyone, learning of the wildlife. terrain and peoples of diverse regions from the Caribbean to Alaska and into the South Pacific. He has assisted in research projects from Cuba to Papua, New Guinea, and experienced the anay of coral reef life from the British Virgin Islands to Australia's Great Barrier Reef. Continuing to observe and document whales, dolphins and porpoises above and below water he has witnessed forty ton Humpback whales in cowtship off 1\tfaui and Orca or Killer whales hunting off Wuvulu. V\bttb Saving. Local Preserves: The \Natural Alternative'' By BRYAN SHERBACOW Arc you bored of the same old campus run? Is the bike trail looking a little stale? Sometimes do you get that yearning to escape Union College for the day. or even for the afternoon? Well, just minutes from campus lie three \natural\ alternatives that may just be what you are searching for: The Plotter Kill Ravine, Collins Lake, and the Lisha Kill Sanctuary. Each of these three preserves offers a beautiful environment to forget about all of that miserable work and those hectic social dilemmas. While all three offer the observer the solace of nature, each has its individual characteristics. The Plotter Kill Ravine, located in Rotterdam, is a two- mile preserve which offers a distinct view of a unique ecosystem which has developed over -the last 350 million years. The most interesting features of the Plotter Kill arc the waterfalls, which feed into an amphitheatre-like ravine. The winding trails and the Plotter Kill stream provides the perfect setting for a casual hike, afternoon picnic or just a calm place to study. Collins Lake, which is located near the infamous Jumpin'Jack's Drive-In, provides a totally different environment. While the water may be a bit too cold for swimming during the school year, the adjacent park is perfect for a game of frisbee, or a pick-up softball game. The lake is host to a variety of aquatic plants and animals, and provides a sanctuary for a number of species of birds. Picnic tables are available for public use. A surprising fcattuc of the Schenectady area is the Lisha Kill Sanctuary located in Niskayuna. The sanctuary is owned by The Nature Conservancy, which is a federal organization dedicated to the preservation of natural habitats. One is overwhelmed by the beauty of the immense forests just in the backyard of Union College. A series of paths has been cleared to provide easy access for the nature-goer. Due to the fragility of this ecocystem. it is requested that all visitors refrain from straying off these trails. So the next time you find yourself searching for something new. take advantage of these offerings and.get down to nature. Environmental Activism on Campus Recycling Committee Meetings: Sundays 5:30 p.m. CC203 Wednesdays 7:30 p.m. CC409 II e e • Student Env.ironmental Alliance (SEA) Wed. Oct. 17 at 7 p.m. in CC Conference Rm. • • • • Students for Political Awareness & Action (SP AA) Mondays at 7 p.m. CC205 • • • • Environmental Awareness Write for Concordiensis Contact: Franz at 393-4021 or Bryan at x 4024 ' ' • • DID YOU KI\IOW? -- Living species die at such a rate that more than half may disappear within our lifetimes. 99 percent of the earth's water is unavailable or unsuitable for beneficial human use. -- In eastern U.S., 3,800 lakes have been affected by acid rain and about 1, 1 00 lakes are now void of aquati.c life. -- Every year we dispose of 24 million tons of leaves and grass clippings, which could be composted to conserve landfill space. ... ~ -;-~- L--------------------------------------------------------~::)'\i 1

CONCORDIENSIS, October 11,1990 Page 9 Vtbrth Saving. Return Returnables By FRANZ LITZ If there is an environmental success story to tell, then the recycling of aluminum may very well be the one. An· estimated 10 million Americans regularly returned their aluminum cans in 1989, which amounted to 61% of all cans produced. And for good reason. One glance at the environmental and financial benefits of recycling aluminum and the idea of tossing away your returnables becomes absurd. Yet, to the dismay of environmentalists and aluminum recycling companies, one investigative walk around our campus and through our dorms makes one thing clear: many of us do not bother to return our cans. Instead, they sit in trash bins until they are ·carted away to the Schenectady County landfill. Aluminum companies wish that weren't the case. Reclaiming old aluminum is profitable. Recycling saves about 90% of the energy required to extract aluminum from bauxite ore. Aluminum is light, making its transport very inexpensive. What's more, aluminum cans do not have to be clean when recycled. Cans are shredded, melted at a mere 1100 degrees Fahrenheit, when wastes ar~ easily skimmed off. The metal is then cast into ingots and rolled intp sheets. This process uses less than one-tenth the energy required to refine aluminum from raw material. In today's world of complex energy questions, recycling seems to offer at least one straightforward answer. Let us examine the alternative to recycling. A student buys a 12-pack of a beverage in aluminum cans, and pays - in New York State at least- sixty cents deposit on these cans. After the cans are emptied, they are thrown away into a green barrel in West College. The sixty cents are gone. That is easily sacrificed when weighed against the inconvenience of collecting the cans and having to carry them to the store. Not weighed in this decision, however, is the fact that in the aluminum can world, twelve new cans will have to be pressed out of raw aluminum, and - as we have said - using reiatively large amounts of energy. For each can throwri away, the energy equivalent of half that can in gasoline is also tossed into the waste heap. Also not considered is the impact thse cans will have in the local landfill. There they will sit, taking up space that may have once been part of a forest, doing absolutely no good for anyone. It should be noted that the number of aluminum cans recycled has increased steadily over the last two decades. Americans are becoming recyclers. Bottle laws - or tile threat of bottle laws • can be given a good deal of credit for these increasing numbers. Returning cans has been made more convenient. In New York, every beverage retailer is required to accept returnables for those brands sold in the store, regardless of where the cans were originally purchased. There are a number of such beverage retailers within walking distance of our campus. What are we waiting for? Door to door pickup? As with almost every environmental issue, the solution lies in the modification of attitudes and behavior. If we are to be environmentally conscious on this campus - and that should be our goal - we need to realize the effects of our actions. Each of us uses aluminum cans numbering into the hundreds each year. On a campus of two thousand students plus faculty, the number of cans could easily reach one million per yar. If the majority of those cans are not reclaimed, we have reason to be ashamed. As individuals, we need to make changes, in order that we may compose a more responsible community. Take tile initiative U! Collect your own bottles and cans. Resident Advisors: You could assign \can collectors\ on every floor. Such collecting could be seen as fund raisers for floor activities. Fraternities and sororities: You already have the organizational structure to make collecting easy. Do not delay! Faculty and administrative offices: Can bins in lounges er break rooms could be placed where soda cans are prevalent. A few steps should be taken in an effort that would benefit all concerned. Failure to take these steps, to collect and return aluminum cans, has consequences beyond losing deposit money. The environmentally responsible individual realizes that throwing away an aluminum can involves throwing away another piece of our environment. And that we can no longer afford. ENVIRONMENTAL Recycling Update By SASCHA LEWIS Recycling is coming to Union! Since the end of spring term last year the Recycling Committee has been working towards establishing a recycling program on the Union campus. After overcoming numerous roadblocks and complications, it looks as if we will reach our objective at Union within the next two weeks. Initially, recycling bins will be situated in the College Center, concentrated in the mail room area. At the start, only paper will be recycled, but there are definite plans to expand to cans, glass and plastics. To keep things as simple as possible, the paper will be recycled all together using what is called an \office mix\. An office mix consists of white paper, colored paper and computer paper. The mail room is an obvious place to start because of the enormous amount of paper that accumulates daily from mass mailings, most of which is immediately thrown out and thus wasted. ·with the cooperation of the College Center, Physical plant and The Recycling Committee, the bins will be emptied and brought to the necessary site where the paper is to be recycled. The Recycling Committee has been concentrating its efforts on collecting the necessary information and facts, so that we can expand recycling to the entire campus community. Following the implementation of recycling at the College Center, we are planing to focus our energy on all administration, faculty and academic buildings. The committee's ideas have been received with great enthusiasm and cooperation throughout campus. It is obvious from the very positive response that the Union community is ready to stop wasting and start recycling. The Recycling Committee hopes the community, specifically the students of Union, will respond to the recycling program and get involved. Without the cooperation and assistance from the entire student population the recycling program will accomplish nothing. It is no secret that this campus has been generally apathetic and unmotivated, but we all must be aware of the importance of recycling. We must realize that the planet earth is not a dumping ground for our waste and ignorance. GET INVOLVED! Recycling Committee meets every Wednesday at 7:30p.m. CC 409 and Sundays at 5:30 p.m. CC 205. Everyone is welcome! Peak .Load Pricing: Economically And Environmentally Sound By BRYAN PELLERIN In the United States today, the majority of electrical energy produced is generated by coal powered plants. While coal is abundant in the U.S. and is a relatively inexpensive fuel, it poses some serious threats to the environment and its use as a fuel must be curtailed. Coal is the obvious choice for most utilities in their power generation facilities. It is considered to be safer than its nuclear counterpart, and is also readily available for immediate use in the united States. Although coal is an economically sound fuel, the environmental costs of burning coal must make one wonder about the overall cost efficiency of using it in our power generating facilities. When coal is burned in a power plant, it releases sulfur dioxide into the upper atmosphere. Strong winds then carry the pollutant until it is released onto fragile ecosystems in the form of what we call acid rain. Since this form of pollution is one of the most damaging in our country (hundreds of lakes are dead or dying), measures should be taken to control this problem. One method that should be used to make electrical power generation more efficient is peak load pricing. This type of pricing is similar to the manner in which telephone companies charge their users. During the peak hours of the day, when energy is at its highest, prices would be increased to discourage people from using energy (just like it is more expensive to make a phone call during the middle of the day). The reduction of peak power use would enable the utilities to operate at less than full capacity, and would therefore reduce the amount of coal being burned. Economically, peak load pricing also makes sense. Since there is a much greater demand for energy during the peak hours, it makes sense for prices to be higher during these times. The use of peak load pricing by the electric utilities would make sense both economically and environmentally. The pricing system would not hurt the average user of electrical energy, and would at worst encourage the conservation of energy during the peak hours of the day. At the same time the environmental costs of using coal as a fuel would be reduced, making it a more viable fuel for energy production.

. Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Come see the UJJtruil®JJ ~ ©.lrill1 at this year's first performance Saturday, Oct. 13 8 PM Memorial Chapel 7f flJJB liJJ TJJ,(J~ !h JPfl/j)rBTF ~ ~ 71' !b (JJ rr;; (JJIJ'!Jl (JJ!] WI t1 oo & rtwce a a (/J ~ will be performing Saturday, Oct. 13 on the Lamont House porch at 11 :'30 a.ma . B E R ?.·1 u D ~-\ . --~~·~- !. ON BREAKING WITH CIVILITY. PL!!II.S! ROC!: THE BOAT. And after our Party Cruise, you can windsurf, parasail, or dive . . Raise a racquet. Or join a friend or three for tee. Bl\ RB ECUJ!:S, BANDSAH'D LUNCfl UNDER TH!! StlN. All compliments of the Ee:rrnuda Department of Tourism. Pink sand and t~rquoise water compliments of nature. ' : .:t Head of the Mohawk Regatta On the River at Rexford Bridge See Union Crew compete against crews from aU over the Northeast Races begin at 10:00 a.m. on Saturday, October 13, 1990 The team wi:ll also be christening a new shell The Spirit of '8 7 WE ONLY Rl!NT CONV!!RTIBLI!S. They're the perfect way to party hop. Just remember, the left side is ,ft!><::t: the right side. BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS March. 3 • 31 $379 ATTENTION STUDENTS AND FACULTY \Women's Public and Private Lives\ Saturday,_. October 20 A series of lectures, discussions, workshops, and films on issues affecting women will be held at Union all-day Saturday, October 20. The conference, · sponsored by Empire State College, is open and free to Union students. An opening reception will be held Friday Night (9:30) in the Campus Center auditorium. For information on times and topics consult the full program posted on the first floor of th~ Social Sciences Building outside room 106 and on the bulletin board outside the Sociology/Anthropology. Department. Pep Band We will be playing at the homecoming game vs. lRo !Po llo Saturday, 10/13 12:30 P.M. We will meet at the south end of main bleachers of Bailey Field. (end closest to Alumni Gym) New Members Always Welcome! ~ld llketf)annc:unre that Ute memo1al sentre fvr WHEN YOUR SEARCHING FOR A UNIQUE. GIFT GIVING IDEA .•• TELECOMMUNicATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT AlTERNATIVE UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT . CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE. COLLEGE CENTER-103. . OR CALL 37()-6411 FOR MORE INFORMATION.

; l I l. ' I' I ( CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 11 HOMECOMING 1990 A NeW Preside.nt . • • A New Decade . . . • . . A New

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 HOMECOMING 1990 Please register at the Alumni Office in Lamont House to reteive your 1991 Union College pocket calendar. Friday noon to 5:00 p.m. and Saturday 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. . Alumni Office Telephone: {518) 370-6168. Friday~ Octo.ber 12 8:30 a.m.-41:30 p.m. Open Classes. Alumni, par<.>nt~ and friends arc invited to join Union's students. Class schl'dules arc available at Lamont I louse. 6:30 p.m. Annua] Fund Volunteer ApplH?ciiltion Dinner. \r ,]]l '<J<' C'cntl'r. 7:00/9:00/11:00 p.m. Movie \Bind On A Wilre.\ 1\l!(J i 1 < mum. C()lleg(~ Cent L'r. T1ckcb may be ]' 1 .:rch<:1scc! al the Student Activities Rox Office. Spt>n.<.(Jred by thE.> Student Film Conunittce. 8:00p.m. Speaker to be announced. Memorial Chapel. Tickets may be purchased at the Student Activities Box Office. Sponsored by the Student Speakers Forum. The Student Activities Information Center and Box Office in the College Center will be open Friday and Saturday from noon to 1:00 a.m. THE NEW Saturday, October 12 8:30-10:30 a.m. Annual Fund Volunteer Breakfast/Workshop. Hale House Dining Rooni. . 9:00 a.m.-Noon. Union College Admissions Video. Admissions Office, Becker Hall. _ 9:30 a.m. Breakfast with the Dutchmen Football Team. West College Dining Room. Join the 1990 squad and coaches \Dut<;h Treat.\ 9:00 -10:00 a.m. Parents Committee Meeting. Milano Lounge, Hale House. 10:00 a.m. 5K :Race. Alumni vs. J.V. Cross .. Country Team. Course runs in and around campus. Meet in front of Alumni Gym at 9:00 a.m. For more details call Dave Herrington at 370-6547. 10:00 a.m. Head of the Mohawk Regatta 1\lumni Crew Race. Mohawk River at Rexford Bridge. 10:30 a.m. Men's Cross Country vs. R.P.I. On campus. 11:00 a.m. Men's Soccer vs. R.P.I. Garis Field. 11:00 a.m. Women•s Tennis vs. Skidmore. Tennis Courts. 11:00 a.m.-Noon. Career Development Center Open House. Old Chapel (third floor). 11:00 a.m.-2:00 p.m. Lunch. Dutch Hollow Restaurant, College Center . . 11:30 a.m.-3:00 p.m. Homecoming Picnic. Under the Big Tent on Alexander Field. Organized by Uni9n's Men's and Women's lacrosse Teams. 11:30 a.m. Music by Union's Dutch Pipers and Garnet Minstrelles. Lamont House Porch. 11 :45 a.m. Terrace Council Lun<:heon. Noon. Bells Concert by Peter K. Smith '70. M~morial Chapel. 12:15 p.m~ Annual Homecoming Parade. 2:00 p.m. Football - Union vs. R.P .1. President Roger Hull presents the Stephen P. Brown Memorial Trophy and Float Awards at halftime. Bailey Field. 4:00 p.m.-5:00 p.m. President~s Reception. Everyone is invited to this reception on Schaffer Library Plaza (or Old Chapel if the weather is inclement). Musical entertainment provided by the Student Concert Band. Academic Presentations/Receptions. 10:30 a.m.-Noon. I. Walter C. Baker Faculty of the Humanities. Classics, English, Modem Languages, Philosophy, Arts, Faculty Lounge (2nd Floor), Humanities Bttilding. · II. Faculty of the Social Sciences. Economics, History, Graduate Management Institute, Political ~ciene, Sociology and Anthropology. Faculty Lounge {2nd Aoor), Humanities Building. Ill. Faculty of the Sciences. Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Geology, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology. Math Lounge (2nd Floor), Bailey Hall. IV D Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science. Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering/Computer Science, Mehcanical Engineering. Room N 116, Science and Engmeering Center.

CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 13 A NE Saturday, October 12 Sunday, October 13 Late Afternoon and Evening Fraternity and Sorority Homecoming Parties. 7:30 p.m. Dutchmen's Night. Dutch Hollow Restaurant, College Center. $1.2.50 per person. Limited seating; resetVations required. 7:00/9:00/11:00 p~m. Movie \Bird On A Wi·re.\ Auditorium, College Center. 8:00 p.m. Union CoBege Choir Annual Homecoming Concert. Memorial Chapel. 9:00 p.m.-Midnight. '\WRUC Celebrates 70 Years\ Homecoming Dance. Upperclassmen's Dining Room, College Center. You are invited to celebrate WRUC's 70th year of being \The First Station in the Nation.\ Music will be provided by current and former WRUC D.J.s. Cash Bar and Munchies. Free admission. Annual Homecoming Parade Saturday Afternoon 12:15 p.m. The Inauguration of Dr. Roger H. Hull. 11:00 a.m. Memorial Chapel. 9:00 a.m.cNoon. Homegoing Brunch. College Center. Adults $9.50, Under 12 $5.50. Limited seating; rese1Vations required. General Information Arts Exhibit .. First and Second Floors, Arts Building. Student, alumni and faculty works will be on display Saturday and Sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Admissions Interviews. The Admissions Office will be open all day Friday and on Saturday from 9:00 a.m. to Noon specifically for interviews with alUinni sons and daughters. Please contact the Admissions Office for an appointment at least two weeks in advance. (518) 37Q-6112. Campus Store. College Center. Friday 8:45 a.m. to 4:30p.m. and Saturday 10:00 a.m. to 4:30p.m. West College Dining HaD. Dinner- Friday 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Parking. Please use lot on corner of Seward Place and Nott Street and the lot behind Memorial Fieldhouse. Campus roadways are classified as Fire Lanes and must be kept clear. Accommodations. If you desire a list of motels please call the Alumni Office. (518) 37Q-6168.

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 @nnrorbirnsts Founded ot Union College 1877--- Let's Celebrate U! The staff of Concordiensis would like to extend a warm welcome to all Union alumni returning to campus for Homecoming weekend. It is our hope that the short time you spend here reliving old memories will be a most enjoyable one. A quick gla.nce through old issues of Concordiens is reveals how much change the Coilege has gone through in the time since many of you were undergraduates. Physical alterations as well as administrative changes have created a \new U\ for all of us. And when many of us are returning as alumni for Homecoming Weekend the \new U\ we left behind will be a fond memory. This particular Homecoming Weekend is special for alumni and undergraduates alike. Of. course there will be the traditional football game, parade and cocktail parties planned, but this year we really are celebrating a \new U.\ We are welcoming a new qecade full of promise and potential and more excitingly, we are welcoming the College's seventeenth president. Everyone, regardless of their graduation year now has a chance to be part of this historic celebration. We hope to see each and every one of you at Memorial Chapel on Sunday morning. As you go about partaking in all of the remaining Homecoming festivities planned, keep in mind how special this place is for all of us. To many of you, this weekend defines recapturing old memories and traditions. To those of us who are still undergraduates, this weekend will be one of many which define and create our memories and traditions. Join us in our celebration of the best college around. Welcome Home! A Housing Policy, But For Whose Benefit? Never mind that Gamma Phi Beta is again getting the short end of the stick. If Union College wants to cut off its nose to spite its face and in the process cheat itself out of a reliable source of revenue, then it is making a huge error in judgment. It appears that Gamma Phi will again be denied housing. There are many empty beds which could be filled by this ever growing sorority. Reportedly, the reason why Gamma Phi cannot be given space in College-owned housing is a recommendation that suggests that all new housing be co-educational. That suggestion is a nice thought and may have worked in ideal conditions, but is is plainly not working now. Enrollment is down, and it apepars that it will at best not begin to rebound for several more years. Now is the time for pragmatism. A little flexibility would allow the school to solve several problems. Beds would be occupied. A new group of women would be able to live on campus, where safety is presumably greater. Why is it that all new housing must be co-ed, other than because that is what the recommendation says? If the students want to have co-ed housing, then that is terrific. But suppose that for whatever reasons the students decide that they prefer to live in single-sex residences. Would it not make sense for the school to follow this.sentiment? Do the policymakers believe that there is sexism in this reasoning? The popular belief among students is that the co-ed housing recommendation is on the books in order to prevent fraternities from reclaiming campus housing. If this is the case, then at what cost will this policy no longer make sense to its authors? Whoever claims that their hands are tied on this issue is avoiding the question. Something can be done. However long it takes to overturn the co-ed housing rule, it is certain that if Gamma Phi is guaranteed a residence as soon as the rule is overturned, it will be satisfied. Moreover, Union College will have ensured itself of many bodies to fill many beds. ' '' ·LETTERS Campus Housing or Drinking and Driving To the Union College Community- ln last week's Concor- diensis there was an article summarizing the Middle States report. We would like to bring attention to the housing issue. The report recommends that all campus owned housing be turned co-ed. We feel that this · recommendation breaks a Union College tradition, takes away student freedom of choice, and has the potential of causing social related problems. By eliminating single sex housing many Greek houses, Richmond, and South College will be made co-ed. Sooth College is the oldest dormitory at Union College and has traditio11ally been all male living quarters. A dimension of students' freedom of choice will be eliminated witbou·t the option of single sex housing. A significant number Qf students choose to live in single sex dQrmitories and this possibility will be taken away. It is a fact that enrollment at Union is ciUTently decreasing. One attraction to prospective freshmen is the aspect that Union is a small school where the maj().ri.ty of social activities take place within the gates of the camp11s. It seems highly unlikely that Union will be able to fill the newly co-ed houses, with enrollment down. When Delta Chi fraternity was pushed off campus, Raymond Cal1 Bu~h, Te 11 h\m U1en:s be~n a de.~edion!,. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OplDIODS .of the Editorial Board. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OplDIODS of the Editorial Board House was difficult to fill. By moving the majority of Greek houses off campus the social life at Union will be moved outside the college perimeter, causing drinking and driving to be a larger concern. A greater worry is the reality that Union students will be disturbing neighboring residents, as well as, a higher risk to students walking outside the campus at night. We hope that we have raised your consciousness on ·this potential problem and encourage the college community to take a stand and to protect its interests! Wendy Abramson '91 Becky Barg '91

CONCORDIENSIS, Octob~r 11, 1990 Page 15 An Open Letter To President Hull Dear President Hull: I realize that in the field of education, your experience, not only as an administrator but also as a student, gives you a distinct advantage over me. I also realize that you have seen the way the educational system in our country has changed over ,the years and that you are able to evaluate it from a personal standpoint. However, President Hull, there is at least one area of our educational backgrounds where I feel that my experience is somewhat superior to yours. I have been at Union College thre.e years longer than you and thus have the personal perspective that you, by no fault of your own, inherently lack. I have seen a great deal of change at Union since my arrival in the Fall of 1987, and I am sorry to say that I think much of it has been for the worse rather than the better. To begin with, my Freshmen class had well over 500 students whereas the Class of 1994 struggles to come within 50 of that number. But i~ is not just a problem of quantity. It seems that the percentage of students from outside the Northeast has also decreased and I would assume that with the continued tuition increases, the minority student population has decreased as well. I realize that this is not entirely Union's fault. I am aware of the smaller applicant pool as well as the effect that eight years of Reaganomics and two years in the Bush Leagues have on the availability of government student loans. Also, I am sure that the Cla~s of 1994, as is true of every class at Union, has some outstanding members who will make positive contributions to both the College and the Schenectady community. However, with only 447 members, the Class has a severe disadvantage and there just may not be enough of them to go around. President Hull, it seems to me, as I am sure it does to you, that the task that lies ahead is a difficult one. Placing a small, private, liberal arts college on the map again will be challenging to say the least. However, attached to challenging and difficult tasks are great opportunities and I would hate to see you pass up the one that you have right now. You have the opportunity to return Union to its former glory as one of the most respected institutions of learning in the country. There have been several books that have come out in the last few years criticizing the American educational system. Although they differ in their approaches, each of these books suggest that we seem to have lost touch with our history, that is the history and origins of Western Civilization. We don't read the way we used to, and as a result, we neither examine nor write about what we read as we did in the past. Some people say \literatlll'e is dead.\ They fail to understand that literature is an abstract, you can~t hurt it. It's our educational system that is in big trouble. The problem is not with our writers, the problem is with our readers. We are so concerned with gaining information about today · that we no longer emphasize the importance of yesterday. We need to get back to the basics, return to the classics, our origins. How can we understand where we are going without understanding from where we have come? President Hull, I have listened to the debates over what has come to be known as \cultural literacy\ and I think you should too. Union's General education program, although an improvement on Liberal Learning, will neither educate the students the way they deserve to be educated nor will it attract any more students to the school than it has in the past two years. We should end this program before it becomes a permanent part of the College's curriculum. In its place, a Core Curriculum similar to that of Columbia University and others like it throughout the country should be implemented. Union should set an example to the small colleges of America. We should lead the educational reform so dearly needed in our country. There is no reason why this can't begin at a small college which has such a rich history of commitment to education. Other small colleges would then, as I know you hope, model themselves after us and continue our tradition. The students would receive the education which they pay for and in many cases will continue paying for in the years to come. President Hull, you are a new leader at our school and you have the opportunity to do something that is new and at the same time very old. All the co-ed housing in the world won't attract people to a school where they will pay over $80,000 for four years only to graduate and be considered unknowledgeable. The college is a place of learning first. We have a fantastic faculty, let them teach the students what we need to know. Matthew Futterman '91 Happy Homecoming , • LETTERS The Land Of Milk And Honey Is Not So Sweet To the Editor: We would like to address points raised in last week's editorial II A Land of Milk and Honey.\ There seem to be misconcepti()ns 'as ,l() the purpose. of the fl,inance Committee and the ideal spending procedure for the Student Activities F11:nd. We hope this letter will ilLuminate and clarify these discrepancies. There is not, nor was there at the time of publication, \a SUQJlus ofover $30,000'• in the Student Activities budget. What is not disturbin.g about the quotation of this figure is that the author of the editorial neglected to contact ~my member of the 1990/91 Finance Committee. We would hope that news printed in the Concordie:nsis would lJe based on researched facts, rather than unqualified rumors. The article also referred to the II forced ... cancellation of Ed Bradley's lecture.\ This too is an incorrect statement, as his lecture was actually postponed and will take place on the fifth of November. We agree completely with the statement that \the B~dget surplus belongs to the students, and must be allocated accordingly.\ The Finance Committee seeks to act in a manner similar to the tenets of John Stuart Mill's Utilitarianism, which promotes the idea of the greatest good for the greatest number. Therefore, the dispersal of funds is proportionate to the accessibility of those funds by the greatest number of students. This is why, for example, Concordiensis received the most money from the Student Activities fund for the 1990-91 school year. We welcome all students to Forum meetings, which are Monday nights at 5:30. We hope to see you there. The Members of the 1990-91 Student Forum Una Palabra de le Herencia Hispana To the Editor: I am a student of Puerto Rican decent. I am an American citizen witlt :strong cultural ties to his homeland, Borinquen. I am also a victim of an all too familiar academic and social curriculum that is exclusive of the Cllltural experience of my peoJ!le and other Latino/Caribbean cul- tures. I am not the only victim though, we of the Union College community all are victims of an intellectual deprivation of diversity and multi-culturalism. The United States government has \recognized\ the importance of the contributions that the Latino community has made to our world culture in the past, present, and will continue to do in the future. They have done this by setting aside a month dedicated to the commemo- ration of Hispanic culture. Hispanic Heritage Montll occurs from September 15 to October 15. Owing this month many Latino countries celebrate historic events of their past and in doing S(), educate their respective communities at the same time. The importance of this education has been recognized by the African and Latino Alliance of Students here at Union College. Our celebration of the cultures of the Latino community will occur in the spring during our Latino Heritage week. We feel it is necessary to build our community through education thus dispelling the general ignorance of this time of celebration for the Hispanic community. Yours Truly, Joe X. Kotright-Gonzalesz Jr. A.L.A.S. Co-Chair Vandalism Or Honor? To The Editor: Shock and dismay was all we could think of when one ()four favorite English pf(}fessors revealed to the class that her pocketbook was stolen from her office. Th<>ugh slle was seemingly good nature<! about it, I could not let this incident go unattended Once again Union is facecl with one or several vandals who think the openness of Union is an opportunity to pillage for their own gai11. Maybe that's what education teaches them where they come from, but here at Union I consider education something else. Once again, the necessity of an honor code becomes apparent. To the students. I challenge us to do something about it. To the thieves, I ask you to show a shred of class and return what you wrongfully took. Alarmed, Carl R. Friedrich, Jr. '91 Anyone For Ping-Pong? To the Editor: The Union Colleg;e Gay, Lesbian and Bisexual .Alliance (G.L.B.A.) would like to bring attention to an article that appeared in the Octobe:r 4 issue of Concordioensis entitled \We're Damn Proud,\ written by Carl R. Friedrich, Jr. Once again, Mr. Friedrich has managed to show the Union community his most naive and homophobic attitudes which, as we may remi11<l Mr. Friedrich, were neither supported nor condoned in the least bit. But first, it is essential to backtrack: on the history of the G.L.B.A~ On October 5, 19 89, the G.L.B.A. made its first public announcement to the Union community entitled, 1 \We're Damn Pro11d\ (sounds familiar?). Briefly, the G.L.B.A. stated that it was forming and encouragedanyone interested in joining tile group to get in C()ntact with the appropriate persons. Wllat Mr. Friedrich was vehemently opposed to was that it apJleared to him \a direct contradiction that tile author(s) were proud of their gayness. while at tile same time were afraid to sign their name(s).\ This, as we may remind Mr. Friedrich, caused a wave of controversy and a lot of resentment towards him by the student body, the faculty and the administration at large. In Mr. Friedrich's response, he chose to condemn all homosexuals in little but few words. Such examples of Mr. Friedrich's comments were as follows: \While they consider themselves different, deep down they must fear a realization of what they are--abnormal. I do not intend to offend those who are sick ... , but while the rest of the world has presumably come somewhere since, gays have not.\ As a result, the subsequent editions of the C o n ~ cordiensis and the Senti11el were full of editorials from individuals who saw Mr. Friedrich's comments for what they were: unmerited, invalid, worthless, cruel and outrigllt homophobic. Finally, on Sunday, October 22, 1989, two representatives of the G.L.B.A. and Mr. Friedrich were invited as guest speakers on the \Bottom Line\ radio program. Suffice it to say that. asked to go on the air and defend his views, Mr. Friedrich was publicly humiliated. Surprised by the opposition of the majority of the callers, Mr. Friedrich stated that: \I think it might be in my best interest to be a little more careful, because obviously by the extent of the backlash and exactly what happened here tonight, my opinion is apparently in the minority ... for the sake of argument, it's sometimes better to take up a different stance when you're in a situation like I'm in right now... in the oven.\ (transcription, Bottom Line. 10/22/89). In regards to Mr. Friedrich's recent article, let us remind him that one should never attempt to represent an entire group or population of people Continued on page 16 :

\Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, October 11, 1990 ~~~~========~===========---·----- LETTERS UNI()~%!! Anyone For Ping-Pong? We want to hear yo·u speak u .. p at The 6th Annual Continued from page 15 without direct approval from those in question. We know many friends and students at Union who are \ping pong players\ but who don't share your sense of humor nor condone or support your homophobic parody. . With careful analysis of the wording of M.r. Friedrich's article and having been knowledged on last year's events, it would become quite apparent who is being made fun of. That this alleged \ping- pong\ group has been \discriminated against for too long\ or that the individuals make up \ten percent of every gathering ... \ seems to refer to the homosexual population, wouldn't you say so? Furthermore, to continue in this manner by stating that \there has never been a recorded episode of \pong related violence against anyone on this campus\ and that you're \one of the few campus groups that doesn't discriminate de facto\ is nothing more than adding insult to injury. How could this possibly be taken by us as an outright insult? Let us remind you, Carl, that there are various expressions, specifically created by a group of individuals for its own significant meaning that, when taken out of context, as you have done, serve as an outright mockery and insult to the group in question (G.L.B.A.). No, Carl, ping-pong players don't \come out of (their) closets,\ homosexuals do and the former's not being open about it does not constitute the fact that II S.ilence=Death. II Many homosexual men and women were killed and tortured in the Nazi death camps and made to wear a pink triangle, as Jews were made to wear a yellow Star of David. This was a horrid time in history and thus, the color black associated with the inverted pink triangle--a symbol and reminder that we will never allow that to happen to us again! Need we go any further, we think not. In the futme, we suggest that you keep thes-e sorts of comments to yourself and stop using Concordiensis as a medium through which to express these homophobic remarks. Furthermore, it would be quite helpful if you were more careful of the way you word and present your material. In the long run, it could save all of us a lot of these same problems which we believe should never have occurred and needn't take place again. The Gay, Lesbian, & Bisexual Alliance Thursday/ November 8, 1990 in Upper Class Dining at 8 o'clock p.m. If you want to participate sign up Now by calling either 386-407 6 or 386-4079 TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS REMEMBER: All STUDENTS ASSIGNED TO A ROOM 08 SUITE WILL BE HELD EOUALL Y AND FINANCIALLY RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH A COLLECT CALL MADE TO THE TELEPHONE LINE ASSOCIATED WITH THE DORM ROOM DURING THE PERIOD OF THEIR RESIDENCY IN THAT ROOM. FROM: INTRO TO IBX STUDENT POLICY AND PROCE/JtJRES MANUAL PAG£6-7 You said you wanted to turn in papers that turn heads. See how we listened. ROAD TRIP! Do you hMve on U'fJI' to ~nd ycur bi'Nk .~r~Y~Af 111..., ~-···· .. • •• on Boul'lmi1 Look what you can do on the IBM Personal System/2~ And with the easy-to-use preloaded software, including Microsoft~ Windows rw 3,0, writing papers is only the beginning. Just point and click the mouse to move text. Create graphics, charts, even spread- sheets, or do other projects like resumes and flyers. Plus, the PS/2s' and select printers are available at special student prices.* Print impressi\\'e output with the IBM Proprinter, 1 \ IBM LaserPrinter E or the Hewlett-P.lckard PaintJet' color graphics printer. And if you buy before December 31, 1990, you'll receive a TWA., Certificate entitling you to a round- trip ticket for $149** /$249.** Plus a free J'WA Getaway\' Student Discount Card application. You'll also get a great low price on the PRODIGY\' service. If you want to start turning heads with your work, theres really only one place to tum ... the IBM PS/2. \Thrs offer rs available only to qualrfled students. faculty. staff and 1nstrtut1ons that purchase IE!M Selected Academic Solutions through participating ~mpus lbcatior1s Orders are sub 1 ect to avadab1hty P11ces are sUbJect to change and IE!M may withdraw the offer at any tune without written notice ••valid for ahy TWA destination in the continental U$. or Puerto Rrco for travel September 16. 1990. through December 19.1991. at the followrng rouncJ.tnp fares: $149.00 round-trip for travel from September 16,1990.1hrough June t4, t991, and September 16 1991 through December 19. t991 $249 00 round-trip for travel June 15, 1991. through September 15, 1991. Seats are limited. Fare rs non-refundable. 14 day advance purchase blackout dates and certarn other restrrctrons apply Complete details:wrll be shown on certificate. Applicants lor TWA's Getaway Student Discount Card must be full-trme students between the ages of 16-26 'a>JBM. Personal System/2 and PS/2 are regrstered trademarks of tnternal!onal8us1ness Machrnes Corporation. Mlcrosofl1s a regrstered trademark of Mrcrosoft Corporation Parnf Jet 1s a regrstered trademark of Hewlett-PackBrd Company TWA rs a reg,stered service mark.ol Trans World Alrlrnes.ln.c. TWA Getaway rs a registered trademark of Trans World Arrl111es. Inc PRODIGY rs a reg1stered servrce mark and trademark o!Prodgy S!Jrviees Company, a partrnJrship of IBM and S!!ars NIBM Proprrnter 1s a trademark of lnternahonal Busrness Mach1nes Corporatrtm Wrndows rs a tradernark of Mrcrosoft Corporatron · · · >JISM. Corpora110n 1990 I·

I· CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 17 : : ~.·~.k I• 'F - ~· .. ART.S & ENTERTAINMENT Horoscopes By Better Than Bran - the WRUC Record Reviews MadaJDe \L\ liB:RA: ·oon't worry about the weekend. Stop stressing and have fun. SCORPIO: You definitely love roses. SAGITTARIUS: Without a doubt you have acting talent. Don't let it go to waste. CA:PRICORN: Practice safe sex. It's never too late. AQUARIUS: If this is you, don't be too pathetic this weekend. By RON EUGENIO and TODD SWARTZ The Replacements- A II Shook Down - (Sire/Warner Bros. Records) It seems that the less alcohol Paul Westerberg consumes, the more depressed he becomes. Westerberg, the de facto leader of the Replacements (he writes the songs, co-produces the songs, sings the songs, lives the songs, etc., etc.) has stopped drinking and is seeing the world, its relationships, and his own gristled face without the giddiness of Jack Daniels. Depressing indeed. At first the 'Mats responded to this by trying to make a record that everybody would like. Last year's Don't Tell A Sop.l, pol,ished aad hung-over, had a few spots of brilliance, sold a fair amount of records, but faded after more than a few listens. AU Shook Down is the reverse. After a few listens, the all stripped down sound thnmghout the album fits the band well, although the growing number of slow songs that creep into Replacement album (\Sadly Beautiful\ and the title track in particular) drip with too much mushiness. But the faster and tighter songs (\Nobody: and the excellent \Bent Out of Shape\) define l.he 'Mats as they stand now; a band growing old but is so pissed off about it that they refuse to sound it. It's not like their best album, 1985's Tim, but a sober, smarter version of it. PISCES: With aU the fun things to do this weekend don't wear yourself out too quickly. ARI·ES: With old and new Unionites in abundance avoid superficial conversations and you will be rewarded with special gifts. TAURUS.: Display your talents, people are looking for new ideas. Artist Mark Wethli to Visit Union G EMJN I: Don't forget. Plenty of liquids, vitamins and rest (and stop smoking} the perfect remedy to cure a cold. CANCER: Remember roses always work. LEO:ROARI You have a secret admirer. VI.RGO: Take one day at a time 'cause you couldn't keep to a schedule anyway. Nationally recognized painter Mark Wethli will be Visiting Artist/Lecturer at Union College, October 17-18. Wethli's lecture,\Creative Strategies\ addresses the way the creative process relates to seemingly unrelated fields of the \liberal arts\ e.g. math and science, literature, and the visual arts. The public is warmly invited to attend this stimulating lecture at 7 p.m., Wednesday, October 17 at the Union College Nott Memorial. Mark Wethli is noted for his highly concentrated realist paintings which stem from the Dutch tradition in their intimate scale, seamless finish, and subject matter, while they acknowledge Italian Renaissance and Japanese Ukiyo-e influences. His work synthesizes these important movements in the history of art with a genuinely contemporary viewpoint. The Portland (ME) Museum of Art and the DeCordova Museum in Lincoln, MA, both held extensive one-person exhibition of Wethli's work in 1989. His work is in the permanent collections of the Arkansas Art Center, the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, the University of · Massachusetts at Amherst, the Portland Museum of Art, and numerous private collections. The Tatistcheff Gallery inN ew announces ancement • ee oan. Available to college students, faculty and staff* Low interest rate Affordable payments Up to $8,000 per loan Quick approval Easy to apply No application fee ====.~ ::'~ - ___ ... --- .. -.--- - .. ----- ---·-- _ _,_.._._ York City and the Koplin Gallery in Los Angeles represent Wethli's paintings and drawings. Mark Wetbli taught at Cal State, Long Beach after receiving his MFA from the University of Miami in 1973. In 1985, he was appointed Associate Professor of Art at Bowdoin College where he continues to serve as Director of the Studio Arts Program. He has been a resident at both the MacDowell and the Millay artist retreats. In 1988 he was a Fellow at the Rockefeller Foundation's retreat in BelJagio, Italy. Sponsored by the Department of the Arts- Union College.

. , . .. Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 19!JO ~~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~-------------------------------------------------------------------------- Mountebanks Presents: Beyond Therapy BJ STACEY . CERVELLINO Last weekend the cast of Beyond Therapy performed three s~enes from the play as a preview. Anyone who saw the preview can tell you-- they were· impressed. Impressed by the directing skills of Ed Vassallo, who is directing Beyond Therapy as his senior project and impressed by the comic timing of the talented cast. Above all, they could not stop laughing. This is a witty, farcical, bizarre play. The dialogue is clever and sometimes cutting and the scenes are filled with a whirlwind of confrontations, romance, and psychotic therapy. Contrary to the advertisements about sex and therapy, Beyond Therapy has a lot more to offer. It lets the audience laugh at life and at. themselves. One of the scenes shown last week gives a fairly good example of what you can expect to see this weekend. It takes place in the apartment of Bruce who meets Prudence, who sleeps with her therapist, through a personal ad. Their romantic evening is somewhat stifled by the annoying DOAH: New Age at Eighth Step Global Pacific/CBS record- ing artists DOAH, whose latest recording release \World Dance\ (Global Pacific/CBS) is now listed amoong the top 10 alternative albums nationwide, will perform its extraordinary blend of jazz, classical and improvisation at 8 p.m., Friday, Oct. 12 at th Eighth Step Upstairs, 14 Willett Street, in Albany; Group co-founders Ken LaRoche (concert and alto flute, piano, synthesizer, soprano saxophone, North Indian banart flutes, S. American kalimba, mbriea and various percussion) and Randy Armstrong (acoustic and classical guitar, W. African balafon and Adodo drum, mandolin harp, Japanese biwa, Chinese Ych-chin, sitar, African mbira, Bolivian charango and percussion) will perform in quartet with long- time group member Volker Nahrmann (acoustic and bass cello, keyboards, vocals and percussion) and drummer Dan Bunge, the group's newest member. The concert repertoire will feature selections from DOAH's five recording releases. \I commend to you, the listener, this rich pot-pourri that is DOAH. Listen well, and savor: music can nourish a hungry soul,\ comments noted Windham Hill artist Paul Winter. DOAH has performed at Carnegie Recital Hall, Lincoln Center and the Bear Mountain Festival of World Music and Dance, among numerous appearances worldwide. The group has shared stages with such notables as Dizzy Gillespie, Larry Coryell, the Paul Winter Consort, Ritchie Havens, Tom Rush and David Bromberg. In 1987, the gorup traveled to India by invitation to open the Ba'hai temple, performing with Seals & Crofts and legendary sitarist Ravi Shanker. \The musicians of DOAH don't Just double on instruments, they multiply them into a veritable symphony,\ writes a Washington Post critic. Admission is $10. For further information or reservations, call The Eighth Step at (518) 434-1703. Social Alternatives Alumni Weekend! 1. Movie: - \Bird On A Wire\ - Fri, Sat, Sun, 7 &11 2. Speaker- (Memorial Chapel)- David 0. Brown of the Cousteau Society. (Friday 8:00 p.m.) 3. Head of the Mohawk Regatta- (10:00 a.m. Saturday.) Alumni Crew Race. 4. Homecoming Parade (Saturday 12:15 p.m.) 5. Football: Union vs. R.P.I. (Saturday 2:00 pm.) 6. President's Reception: Library Plaza Saturday (4:00 p.m. - 5:00p.m.) 7. Inauguration of Dr. Roger H. Hull (Sunday 11 :00 a.m. Memorial Chapel) Consult Calendar for Full List of Events Art Exhibit Saturday & Sunday 1st & 2nd Floors of Art Depte interruptions of Bruce's jealous male lover, Bob, and constant phone calls from Bob's mother who feels that her son is being treated unfairly. If this sounds confusing, wait until you see the rest of the play. Beyond Therapy is this weekend, Homecoming Weekend. It's only $3.00 and it's pure comic genius. Pick up a ticket in the College Center and give yourself and your parents some of the best therapy of aU-- laughter. Meg Parsons and Neil Kanterman in \Beyond Therapy.\ Chinese Acrobats At Proctors This Weekend A centuries old cultural tradition, dating back to 770 BC, wil~ be on stage at Proctor's ,..J 'heatre on Saturday, Oct. 13, at 8 p.m., when The Shanghai Acrobats and The Imperial Warriors of the Peking Opera present an exciting blend of ancient arts. Chinese acrobatics began as a folk art originating from the work, ballets, and sacrificial rituals of the people. Over the centuries, the acrobatic arts were displayed at celebrations, and its performers, who were held in high esteem, were summoned to the Imperial Court to entertain visitors. Eventually falling prey to the various political climates in China down through the decades, tte acrobats lost favor with the ruling powers, although not with the people. It wasn't until 40 years ago that the acrobatic troupes were reestablished and brought back into favor. Since that time, the award winning Shanghai Acrobats have toured the world and are considered to be one of China's finest exports. The troupe performs six sold-out shows each week in its 1600-seat home amphitheater in Shanghai and is regarded as one of the premier tourst attractions in the Far East. During this present tour, the Shanghai Acrobats are joined w Wants you to come celebrate its 7/®alh wnu-~lbHdlllly R u c on Saturday night at Upper Class Dining Hall. 8:00-9:30 MCA Recording Artists-The Fundamentals 10:00-12:00 D. J. & Dancing (Positive ID Required) All Welcome! ·cROSSGATES 12 CAOSSGATES MALL . 456·5678·· HARDWARE 1:15-J:55-7.25-10:il5 FLATIJNERS l:lG-3.50-7-011-9:50 DEATli WARRANT 1 :ZG-4:00-7:15-10: 10 GOODFELLAS 12:30-3:30-6:45-10:00 I COME IN PEACE • 1 :25·d:05·72G-9:55 NARROW MARGIN 1~3:45-7·1G-~4S POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE 1:00-3:40-7:05-9:40 FUNNY ABOUT LOVE 12:55-J:25-o:!lr9:25 GHOST 12:35-]:20--6:40-'1-.30 ?leo.~ e. Co\\- iD our PACIFIC HEIGHTS 12:51r3: 15-6.55-9:35 :I:.NFORI1AIIONAL MEE'TINq on 10\11\qo THU~50AY \' 7 p....., .n (.G 40(o PRESUMED INNOCENT 12:40- ]:35-6:30·9:20 YOUNGGUNS2 12:45-3:10·10:15 by the incredible acting acrobats of the Peking Opera. This classical group is grand opera, ballet, an acrobatic edisplay and an historical play rolled into one, as they recreate four of the Opera's most popular martial sequences, including battle scenes from the famous Monkey King Opera, fully staged with elaborate costumes and spectacular makeup. Also on the program will be the traditional acrobatic acts that have delighted audief!ces the world over, along with contortionists, jugglers and balancing acts. It promises to be a spectacular and colorful evening of theatre for the entire family. CHINESE FILM Ql) IB3 <JD rrcd1~ rr '1r ® w r:ro. 00 7:00 p.m. Monday October 15 in C.C. Auditorium 5:3lH:41l-9:50 (R) 4:40.7:10·9:40 (R) 5:20-7:21)-9:35 (Rl 4:5(). 7 ·9:25 (RJ 6-8-10 (Ill 5:30·7:45·9:50 (PSI3) l!,iljOii~M~I 370-1920 AL R .$ HENECTADY POSTCAROI$ FROM THE EDGE 5:10-7:20-9:30 Q!l GHOST 4:45-7:10-9:40 !1'613) GOODFEWS 5-8 Q!l JUNGLE BOOK 5;3d [il HARDWARE 7:3().9:55 Q!l FUNNY ABOUllOYE 5:30·7:40-9.45 !PSI3) I COME IN PEACE 6-8-10 !Rl WITCHES 4:50-6:50-8:50 (PG) . . 'Ci~T !ICKETS liT BOX OFFICE · , ~- Campus Movie I)QIEdrrrDJ ((Dm A Wnrr~oo F Rl., SAT., SUN. 7 & 11

( f ' I' I, ,. CLASSIFIEDS Caribbean tri:p by National science F@utldation, 2-6 credits from N.C. State U., 1-2 weeks in Dec., May or August, Call Prof. Kimberly (919) 737- 7831. Free Spring ~:s reak Trips to Cancun and the bahamas. Organize a small gronp and you travel free. Call 1 (800) 344-8360 for more information. Is your fraternity, sorority or dub interested in earning $50() to $1,000 one- week, on-camp11s marketing project? You rnust be well- organized and hard working. Call Elizabeth U. at (800) 592- 2121. Student. Ie>b (Off Campus) - need occsional c:hild care for 21 month old girl and 4 year old son. $4/hr. flexible schedule. Glenville area. Prefer own transportation, contact 399- 2807. Addressers Wanted Immediately! No experience necessary, excellent pay! Work at home. Call T()il Free 1-800- 395-3283. Jeep For Sale. 1987 Black Jeep Wrangler in excellent conditio11 (specs) 6 cyl., brand new Tan soft top, semi-hard doors. Blat~punkt radio. Price negotiable. C1>ntact Box #1707. Lose a bracelet at D-Phi last w-end! Call Carl at 386- 4310. VOLUNTEER The United Cerebral Palsy of Schenectady urgently needs to address and stuff support letters. If interested contact mary Pat Carey at 399- 8124. Duane Bran«:h Library is looking for students interested in volunteering their time as hqmework center tutors and companions. If interested call Harriet G-ussin at 382-3504. CLUBS Commissioning of Eucharistic Ministers- Sunday, October 14th at the 7:30 p.m. Mass all Union students who 'Will serve as Eucharistic Ministers at St. John's will be commissioned. A reception will follow ih the Rectory. All the Union community are invited. Newmall Suppers- Tuesday evenings at 5 p.m. Room 2()3 of the College Center. Use meal card and bring tray to 203 or bring your own s11pper. Frosh may use their meal cardg to go through Upper Dining. Tuesday, October 15th we will eat and CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 19 CAMPUS NEWS then have a coloring party to color Halloween greetings to approximately 100 local shut- ins.· All we:lcome and all materials will be provided. Folk Group-Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30p.m. in St. John's church l:O rehearse. Tutoring-Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386-4181. DE MELLO PROGRAM On Tuesday, October 16th at St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are ' welcome to attend an audio cassette program \Wake Up to Life\ by Anthony de Mello, S.J., author of many books on spirituality and until his untimely death in 1987 direetor · of the Sadhana Institute of Pastoral Counseling near Poona, India. Sister Joan is the facilitator. Bible Study/Prayer Group-On Tuesday, October 16th from 8:45 to 9:30p.m. at St. John's School Library Sister Joan will begin a study of the Book of Exodus from the Old Testament. All are welcome. PERSONALS Hey Mo, I got the leaf, you got the penny? Reality check, O.K. here comes L- - - ' The guy with the A. Hey 1 - 3 - Watson, Let's hope this weekend is the best ever! I'll be back to help you all out! Love ya, Gary Mary Ellen, Johanna, Ed & Matt - Marble check! I said I don't pump no gas! To the other two Amigos, Thanks for making the readjustment easier - it's great to be back. To Hugo Chowzbox, You are the man. Huuuugoooo! Love, the 3rd Amigo. Scott, It's great to have you visiting us again, but beware the woman with Cheez Whiz! Hey Flea Brain, Winkle, winkle, winkle, winkle, .... Love, Pasqtmlli Kevin is aplomb. Love, Norm the Plant ''We Care About U'' @JP ~m l1IDl ~~uiim f! ullin~ W~cDlmt~~~~:f iiill n.~~j)® CC®Ufl~~~ CC~IIDll®lf !R®®IIffi) ~®~~ Call Pete Cowles (386-4400) or Dan Gilbert (381-6974) For more Info. Weekly Crossword \STATElY NICKNAMES\ ACROSS 1 Over the bill 5 \_State\: Hawaii 10 \-me State\: 11:;-t-+--t-- Missouri 14 One of the tribes ol Israel 15 Center of aHraclion 16 Promise 17 Pamdise 1 B Choleric 19 Combining form meaning bone 20 \Granite State\ Capital 41 22 \Garden State\ CapHal 1-:'::\1--t--t--t--- 24 Cheer for the matador 25 English measurement 26 Burn badly 29 Oldsmobile, eg 30 Corresponded with 34 Dawn 35 _fly 36 Bayot __ 37 Exist 38 \-State\: Louisiana 40 Devoured 41 Work on the hedges again 43 \_no to drugs!\ 44 Besmirch 45 Trick's companion 46 2,000 pounds 47 Yanks and Mets, eg 48 Willy_: Miller's salesman 50 Mr. Marvin 51 \Grand Canyon State\ Capilli 54 \ State\: Norlh Carolina By Gerry Frey 58 Precedes \PIDES\: Greek dramatist 59 Rows 61 __ China 62 Bell output 63 Ms. Taylor 64 Blood vessel 65 Centerpiece for Arizona, Navada, Colorado and Idaho 66 Chemical compound 67 This: Spanish DOWN 1 Mr. Guinness 2 \- __ what we can\ 3 Kiln 4 \Cornhusker Stale\ Capital 5 In flames 6 Jack_: of Hawaii 5·0 7 Wood sorrel 8 Mad :Aiice'sfrlend 9 Lively 10 \ State\: Oklahoma 11 Biblical has 12 Mr. Praminger 13 At what lime? 21 \ __ Dominion State: Virginia 23 Senator Sam from Watergate 25 \Badger State\ Capital 26 Intelligent 27 Apple tool 28 Mountain ridge 29 Sacramenlo's St. 31 City In \Sunshine Slate\ 32 Ms. O'Neal 33 Oglers 35 \_State\: Idaho 36 \ State\: Massachusetts 38 Mountain climbing tool 39 Word with tin 42 \Tarheel Stale\ Capital 44 ·- Slate\: Utah 46 For hire cars 47 Combining form meaning trice 49 Bishop's hat 50 Word with printer or surgery 51 South American country 52 French eight 53 Precedes \MENT\: Christ· mas decoration 54 \Pine State\: Maine 55 Chemical suffixes 56 Blue pencil 57 ·-Star State\: Texas 60 Noun sulllx SEE ANSWERS ON PAGE 17 This Week in the College Center THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11 10:30-1:00 p.m. CCAUD Minerva Hour: Mansour Farhangh: \US/Iranian relations\ 3:00-5:00 p.m. CC204 Big Brothers/Sisters 8:00-10:00 p.m. CCAUD Shakespeare Series: Annabell Paterson FRIDAY, OCTOBER 12 ·HOMECOMING WEEKEND 7 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: \Bird On A Wire\ ' ' p.m. 7:30 p.m. UCDH Annual Fund Dinner SATURDAY, OCTOBER 13 7, 9, & 11 p.m. CCU AD Film: \Bird On A ~ire\ 7:30 p.m. Dutch Hollow Dutchmen's Dmner 9:00-12:00 a.m. UCDH Homecoming Dance SUNDAY, OCTOBER 14 9:00-12:00 p.m. UCDH Homecoming Brunch 12:30-2:00 p.m. Atrium General reception 7, 9, & 11 p.m. CCAUD Film: \Bird On A Wire\ MONDAY, OCTOBER 15 7:00-8:00 p.m. CC409 SPAA Meeting 7:00-9:00 p.m. CCAUD East Asian Studies Film 7:30-10:00 p.m. CC406 Modem Language Film Series TUESDAY, OCTOBER 16 5:00-6:30 p.m. CC203 Newman Supper WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 17 7:30-8:30 p.m. CC409 MASS Meeting 8:00 p.m. CCAUD Film: \Scarface\ THURSDAY, OCTOBER U 10:30-1:00 p.m. Minerva Hour: To Be Announced 12:30-1:30 p.m. CC204 Women's Comm. Mtg. 3:00-5:00 p.m. CC204 Big Brothers/Sisters Mtg. 6:00-7:30 p.m. CC204 East Asian Studies Dinner COLLEGE CENTER NOTES Come help us celebrate the Grand Opening of the New Cabaret tonight in CC302. Watch for Coffeehouse, Crosstalks, CC Dramatic Readings, Language and Multicultural D~ing and other events there as well. It's your space; use it.

. . Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS Strike up the Concert Band Rehearsal Tonight! M®m©>wncmij C!hlcm~®ij 5 : ~vo ,. 1 ~ (())(Q) rP ~ rmt. Questions call: Denise, Teresa x386-4354 Rubes® By Leigh Rubin D£AA Mil.. 6cu.., \i4P.NK 'll::lv FOR 5oif.HimoJG 'fbtJR iO£A lbA ll'lE \'b£- f'HoNE:~ VoJlO N~ A Gooo LAIJG>l ARouND \JlE OfF\~. N THE. l'il1ilRE 1F Yo<J HAvE\ N<V ~ LOONY :w:AS, IU:AS£ DcN'T ~~--Ult'W.. ~'!bu. r--~ I I ) /. \ I. PERSONALS Re- Ron you owe us a dozen eggs and a loaf of bread! Love, your favorite ladies! Jill- Hang in there pledge! You're next! Love, the Sisters of Gamma Phi Donna- We have to make a Castello run, SOON! Too many things have gone neglected too long. Gamma Phi Alum, See you all at half-time! Love, the Sister of Gamma Phi Beta HiD! I miss being shopping carted around. Love, Pencil Thin Moustache Laura- You don't have to thank us for accepting you - You were missed when you were away· and we're glad you're back with us. Love, Toe and DO Olad! We've had our ups and downs! Inspite of it all, it's been a great 2 years! Happy Anniversary!! Love, Lou Memories of last year: I can bring home the bacon; flies in the dustbuster; the recliner; and Friday night - semi-formal-bring a date! I'm cooking. Shirley, Share my bed?! Huh. I don't think so! Congratultions Bethan! We love our newest sister! The Sister of Gamma Phi Beta Eric, We accept your challenge. You pick the time and place - BYOB!! and we'll wear our helmets·! Edward Lawrence w. m and David Ross 5. I Dinner was fabulous as was the company! We're ready to funnelate when you are! Who was wearing their helmet at Sig Chi Saturday night??!! 714 Union- Thanks for my cake and flowers. You guys are great. Right Betty Fig.? Love, Wendy DKS, I've missed you so much. It's gonna be a great weekend. I Love You. LJL Michi L- Cheer Up! Your Man's coming este fin de Semana! Ciao, Michi M y Laris. Amy Schack, I'm glad your back. A great big sister you still are, even though you are so far. I Love You. Michele GoRED SOX Bruce, Evan, & Mike & Andy M. & Matt- Welcome Back! LJL Des, Do you think anyone is on to us yet? Your secret admirer JEEP For Sale - 1987 Black Jeep Wrangler in excellent condition (Specs.) 6 cyl.; Brand New Tan Soft Top, semi-hard doors, Blaupunkt radio. Price m~gotiable. Contact Box#1707. Jennifer, R, We think you're great! Love, Roomie~·Michi L, Lons Michi- Who ate all those Rice Krispie treats? :ME? NAAAHH! Esteban- Teamo LJL -M What sparks a champion sparks you and champions choose Wheaties. Fora good time, ca11476-4PP J \When you give blood you give another birth~ another anniversary,· another laugh, another hug, another chance. + .American Red Cross Please gi\t blood I Alexander Graham Bell's first reject. \It's about time you got your carcass home. The kids and I are starving!\ \Well Mr. Johnson, I believe l'ye discovered the cause of your chronic light-headedness.\ \Sorry operator. I'm not authorized to accept collect calls ... even from the governor.\ The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee. of Union College presents The Fall1990 Schedule Oct.ll Regardless of how the Gulf crisis is resotvect, U.S. policy in the Middle East mu~t begin to address underlying condiUons of frustration and ag~ression in the reg1on~ says Mansour Farbang, professor of politics at Bennington College. He has held dip- lomatic posts as Iran's ambassador to the United N;tions, and Ir~n:s envoy in nego- tiations to end the Iran-Iraq war. He will speak on \The Gulf CrlSIS and U.S. For· eign Policy in the Region!' Thursdays, 11:30 a.m. Lectures are in the College Center Auditorium, except for Oct. 4 (Music Room) and Nov. 8 (Memorial Chapel). All are welcome. Admission free. For more information, call (518) 370-6508.

CONCORDIENSIS; October 11, 199() Page 21 <i!nnrorbirnsis SPORTS Union Crew Of T,he Races Hudson In Challenge Regatta By MATT GREEN and JULIE PATTISON The Indian summer this past weekend was the setting for the Hudson Valley's First Annual Challenge of the Hudson Regatta. Union Crew made its second fall appearance, traveling to Peekskill, New York with their varsity crews. Finishing third, ahead of Army and Manhattan was the men's varsity eight, coxswain Andy Goldberg and rowers Evan Grace, Peter Schwab, Mike Kimber, Hal Allen, Matt Green, Joe Zimmerman, Ronnie Yung and Shea Wallon. The women's varsity eight, consisting of coxswain Julie Murphy and rowers Julie Pattison, Kathy Jo Champion, Carrie Savage, Nicole Van Gendt, Christyn Hills, Ashley Reeve,, Florentine Van der Wind and Amie Yuskaitis finished second to Army. Due to the high winds of the afternoon, the men's varsity four, coxswain Amin Khan and rowers Mark Richter, Shea Wallon, Sean Livingston, and Gary Chase, was unable to race. Peekskill played host to a Women's Soccer Continued from page 22 least 2 out of the next 5 games, we should be able to win because we are better and stronger than we were last year. If we play the way we're capable of, we can win.\ With upcoming games this week against Williams (home) and Plattsburgh (away), Union has already proven that it is capable of walking away with several goals. Williams is expected to be a tough, well skilled, quick team like Middlebury, and the lady Dutchmen must play a quick game, similar to that against Hamilton. In like manner, Plattsburgh has always been a physical team JSU presents CANDY GRAM SALE! October 16, ·17, 18 Send a Message to a Friend Proctor's Tickets for Anything Goes Nov. 15 Call Beth 4028 Do Not Forget FRIDAY NIGHT DINNERS Bring Meal Cards variety of local and international crews. In addition to the New York State colleges in attendance were the U.S. National Team, Keio (a Japanese college), Princeton, Yale, Brown, Rutgers, Syracuse, and Navy. Coach Tom McClarence and the entire team were extremely pleased with the performances and are looking forward to this Homecoming weekend, when Union will race all its varsity and novice boats at the Head of the Mohawk Regatta here in Schenectady on Saturday. withdifficult officiating; the squad would appreciate a victory there. Yet, with things going as positively for Union this yar as they have been already, the possibilities for just such a win, a winning season, and victory in the upcoming state tournament are there. Men's Soccer In Space Lost By FRIEDS The Union College Dutchmen have hopefully spent the past week forgetting what the season has become. The team had only one game, against Vassar, and lost pitifully, 3-0. From the very start, the Union eleven looked extremely flat, and the Vassar squad took it to the home team with fervor. Union was disorganized in the back, sloppy in the midfield, and unproducrive on the attack. This lackluster beginning cost the Dutchmen early. In the sixteenth minute of play, Vassar played a thru ball past the Union defense , (which was pushing up at the time), and a Vassar forward ran after it uncontested. The result was a goal which goalie Lee Popper could not be held responsible for, but nonetheless let go thru his legs. The only chance the Dutchmen provided was a pretty free-kick from Adam \Private\ Epstein. If not for a diving save from Popper in the halrs final minute, the score would have been worse than 1- 0. The second half was as sad as the first. Ten minutes into the half, a Vassar cross bounced over the heads of two Union defenders to the waiting foot of a Vassar overlapping back. 2-0 Vassar. From there the Union team fell apart, as even their most loyal fans gave up cheering. What resulted was a team of individuals trying to do it all themselves, which resulted in nothing. The epitome of this \match\ perhaps came with under a minute to play, when yet another Vassar cross into the Union penalty area. The ball slipped thru the goalie's hands, and was headed home by Vassar. The final, 3-0, was a generous gesture on Vassar's part. Some diamods in the rough for Union included Keith Ward and Brian Desmarais, who along with Captain Eric Reaman have been mostly steady as outside back this season. I'm sure the squad is looking foward to improving on their 1-4-1 record this week. According to the schedule, they were due to host Siena yesterday, but rumor has it the game was switched to today. Who knows? This Saturday they will certainly be home, as R.P.I. looks to become Homecoming fodder once again. Make me look bad guys, and win a few. Notes: Adam Epstein and Tim Walsh share the team lead in goals with two each ... Senior Davey Haas should soon be with us again, as he's feeling groovy ... This week's Meister Brau stud· of the week goes to Don Hodson, who had several key blades against Vassar ... No one has yet to figure out why Union's location is listed on the soccer programs ... Theoretically, the Soccer team could still go 9-4- l...The annual alumni game should be held at some point this weekend ... Skippy is approaching 'legendary'Pong status. SCOREBOARD Women's Soccer (5-5) October 4 UNION 0 6 UNION 4 Middlebury 1 Wells 0 Field Hockey (4 .. 5-1) 4 UNION 1 Manhattanville 2 OT Volleyball (13-7) 9 UNION 1 Williams 2 UNION 2 North Adams 0 Women's Tennis (4-3) 5 UNION 0 Vassar 9 6 UNION 6 Albany St. 3 7 UNION 9 North Adams 0 Women's X-Country 6 UNION Invitational-finished 3 out of 3 Men's X-Country 6 UNION Invitational-finished 10 out of 10 ...

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 <it.onrorbtrnsis SPORTS Women's Soccer Evens Record At 5-5 By RON BIRNBAUM This past week held mixed results for the Dutchmen women's varsity soccer team, losing two home games and winning one on the road, leaving them with a .500 record at 5-5. Both home losses, against Skidmore and Middlebury, ended in a 1-0 score. However, the road win against Wells resulted in a 4-0 victory, with the potential of having been an even greater shutout. With 5 wins, this is the best record Union has posted in the past few seasons; with 5 games left, the squad has a chance to tie the 6-win seasons of the '85 and '87 teams, or to go ahead and get 7 for a .500 season, or possibly 8 for a winning season, something never before accomplished by the women's varsity soccer team. In the Skidmore game, Union played consistently, aggressively and dominated on defense in particular, but had its problems. As well as having a small bench and several injuries, Union had trouble putting its 7 shots in. According to senior goalies Kathleen Lawliss, who saved 9 out of 10 on-goal shots, \We were stringing pa8ses together, but we couldn't finish.\ In addition, windy weather was another factor, and Skidmore has traditionally been a well skilled team. It entered the second half quick, determined to play hard. On an attempt which may have been an offsides but went uncalled, Skidmore scored after a defensive miscue in front of the net 30 minutes into the second half. All in all, though, Union gave a tough game and lost to them only by .one point as opposed to last year. Junior midfielder Rika Poor claimed that \We surprised them by being better than they thought we would be.\ Middlebury, which the team also had the potential to defeat, was a fast team which moved the ball well. As with other fast teams, the ball was played in the air rather than defensively on the ground. Stormy weather helped to even out the game, but the victory goal was scored with 55 seconds left in the first half. Union took a total of 10 shots in comparison to 15 by the opponent, and Lawliss had 8 saves. Things turned around against Wells College, who the team was expected to defeat, and Union took advantage offensively to earn the final 4-0 shutout. While the squad dominated with shots on goal (40 in comparison to Wells' 4), it still did not finish its shots when the opportunity was there. Only half of these were saved, the others being either wide or high. Head coach Suzanne Zaloom believed that Union should have had 6 goals this game with these extra opportunities, such as when it went one-on-one with the aggressor's keeper. Instead of pressuring more shots for insurance goals, Union played down to Wells' poorer skill level. Several non-starters played the first 20 minutes of each half, including freshman goalies Lara Greenberg, who played for the entire second half : and had 2 saves, subbing in for senior goalie Kathleen Lawliss who started the game and made 4 first half saves. In terms of scoring, junior forward Debby Danforth put in the first goal 8 minutes into the first half assisted by freshman midfielder Suzanne McBride, her sixth of the season. McBride passed a thru ball, and Danforth took a high shot into the far post comer. Junior Cynthia Butler scored an identical goal on the opposite side with 15 minutes left in the half, giving her a seasonal total of 4, off an assist by senior midfielder Teresa Sanchez. The first half ended with Union up 2 goals to none. In the second half, junior Ann Ramaley and Lawliss, playing stopper, both scored their first points of the year. Midway thru, Ramaley put a powerful shot in goal, assisted by freshman Tina Mesiti, and with only a minute left, Lawliss sunk a shot from outside the box off an assist by sophomore Rebecca Bray. With a 5-5 record, Union is prepared to finish off its season well and accomplish its goal of an even or winning record. Rika Poor stated, \With at Continued on page 21 The Women's Soccer Team travels to Plattsburgh Saturday looking for a win. Women's X-Country Running Wild By SPORTS STAFF If you've been up and about on L:ampus in the early morning hours in the past L wo weeks you may have asked yourself, who is that group of people and why arc they running at 7 a.m.? The answer is the cross country team has been practicing twice a day. In an effort w im.:rca.sc lhc amount of miles they run in a week the Lean 1 ha.s been meeting at 7 and 3:30! This Saturday afternoon at the Union Invitational in Saratoga the women's team saw some of their work begin to pay off. The team was twice blessed with beautiful weather and an Ansclment tailgate after the meet. Due to these pleasant circumstancers the ladies were able to run well on their (home away from) home course. The team placed third overall in the meet. Running first and second for the women were co-captains Meg Parsons and Sandy Anselment with times of 20:58 and 22:21 respectively. Closely following were Lauren Karp, 22:26, and Cindy Hunter, 22:48. Sophomores Tasha LaBarre and Kristen came in next running 23:57 and 24:17. Senior Claire \Mrs.\ Megathlin rounded up the team with a time of 26:37. It looks like a strong season for the lady harriers. Tomorrow they will host the Capital District Meet at Saratoga Park at 4 p.m. Come over and cheer them on. The Game That Almost Was •.• By DAVE AUSTIN and DAVE INCE This past Saturday, the union Rugby Football Club again achieved a magnificent victory. It was for the sturdy St. Lawrence team that the URFC spent an unending week of grueling practice. · After enduring two sweltering days of intemperate heat, the rugby gods replenished the pitch's thirst for nutrients. allowing for the well conditioned athletes to get ahead in our studies. Following the well disciplined Friday practice, our men were blood thirsty and ready. As the warm sun dried away Saturday's early morning dew, and our team completed it's religious, morning calisthenics, the URFC's match secretary, Toby Overdorf, suddenly received a call from a fearful member of the St. I:..awrence team. As the quivering voice echoed over the TRACK & FIELD CLINIC SAT., DEC. 8, 1990 Organized and run by professional Track and Field athletes and coaches including: JAN JOHNSON- 1972 Pole Vault Bronze phone, Toby could perceive the constemation of the spineless team that deteriorated at ,the thought of our mighty Ruggers. It seems that our skill would have to be proved amongst familiar faces as the captains cognized the absence of the guest team. Due the anger .of serum half Dave Stein, he threw himself into a elephantine ruck, snapping his collar· bone in four places. Stein, wanting to walk to Ellis, was taken away in an ambulance, escorted by three security cars, and a paramedic truck. lt is the wishes of the URFC that the entire campus turn out this Saturday at 1:00 p.m. for what will prove to be a detrimental 80 minutes for the visiting RPI players. our battle will be fought in memory of our intrepid \Killer B \ David Stein. All returning alumni are welcome to partake in this momentous event. 1~1 CHRISTMAS RUSH SAT., DEC. 22,1990 Medalist Fonner World Featuring High School and Record Holder. Open Track and Field STEVE MILLER- Events, including the Head Coach at Kansas Master's Mile. State University. Olympic Relays in High School and Team Manager-1992. Open DMsions **BOTH EVENTS TO BE HELD AT MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE, UNION COUEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.** [!J)lmO©~ ©©(lJl~~~ ~ ®®~ ~~~~IJ~ *DUTCHMAN GAMES, JANUARY 27-28, 1991* *UNION OPEN, APRIL 24, 1991* *UNION SPRING CLASSIC, MAY 17, 1991* •EDDY MEET, MAY 18, 1991* *T AC LEVEL 1 COACHING SCHOOL, JUNE 22-24, 1991* FOR FURTHER DETAILS I ARRANGEMENTS CONTACT: DAVE HERRINGTON UNION COLLEGE SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 518-370-6547 Write for Sports- Contact Andy at 381-4650 or Box 212

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 <ttnnwrbirnsts SPORTS Women's Soccer Evens Record At 5-5 Bv RON BIRNBAUM This past week held mixed results for the Dutchmen women's varsity soccer team, losing two home games and winning one on the road, kaving them with a .500 record at 5-5. BotR home losses, against Skidmore and M iddlcbury, ended in a 1-0 score. However, the road win against Wells resulted in a 4-0 victory, with the potential of having been an even greater shutout. With 5 wins, this is the best record Union has posted in the past few seasons; with 5 games left, the squad has a chance to tie the 6-win seasons of the '85 and '87 teams, or to go ahead and get 7 for a .500 season, or possibly 8 for a winning season, something never before accomplished by the women's varsity soccer team. In the Skidmore game, Union played consistently, aggressively and dominated on defense in particular, but had its problems. As well as having a small bench and several injuries, Union had trouble putting its 7 shots in. According to senior goalies Kathleen Law liss, who saved 9 out of 10 on-goal shots, \We were stringing passes together, but we couldn't finish.\ In adtlltwn, windy weather was another factor, and Skidmore has traditionally been a well sk II led team. 1t entered the o,;e.cond half quick. determined to play hard. On an attempt which may have been an offsides but went uncalled, Skidmore scored after a defensive miscue in front of the net 30 minutes into the second half. All in all, though, Union gave a tough game and lost to them only by one point as opposed to last year. Junior midfielder Rika Poor claimed that \We surprised them by being better than they thought we would be.\ Middlebury, which the team also had the potential to defeat, was a fast team which moved the ball well. As with other fast teams, the ball was played in the air rather than defensively on the ground. Stormy weather helped to even out the game, but the victory goal was scored with 55 seconds left in the first half. Union took a total of 10 shots in comparison to 15 by the opponent, and Lawliss had 8 saves. Things turned around against Wells College, who the team was expected to defeat, and Union took ad vantage offensively to earn the final4-0 shutout. While the squad dominated with shots on goal (40 in comparison to Wells' 4), it still did not finish its shots when the opportunity was there. Only half of these were saved, the others being either wide or high. Head coach Suzanne Zaloom believed that Union should have had 6 goals this game with these extra opportunities, such as when it went one-on-one with the aggressor's keeper. Instead of pressuring more shots for insurance goals, Union played down to Wells' poorer skill level. Several non-starters played the first 20 minutes of each half, including freshman goalies Lara Greenberg, who played for the entire second half and had 2 saves, subbing in for senior goalie Kathleen Lawliss who started the game and made 4 first half saves. In terms of scoring, junior forward Debby Danforth put in the first goal 8 minutes into the first half assisted by freshman midfielder Suzanne McBride, her sixth of the season. McBride passed a thru ball, and Danforth took a high shot into the far post comer. Junior Cynthia Butler scored an identical goal on the opposite side with 15 minutes left in the half, giving her a seasonal total of 4, off an assist by senior midfielder Teresa Sanchez. The first half ended with Union up 2 goals to none. In the second half, junior Ann Ramaley and Lawliss, playing stopper, both scored their first points of the year. Midway thru, Ramaley put a powerful shot in goal, assisted by freshman Tina Mesiti, and with only a minute left, Lawliss sunk a shot from outside the box off an assist by sophomore Rebecca Bray. With a 5-5 record, Union is prepared to finish off its season well and accomplish its goal of an even or winning record. Rika Poor stated, \With at Continued on page 21 The Women's Soccer Team travels to Plattsburgh Saturday looking for a win. Women's X-Country Running Wild By SPORTS STAFF l1 you've been up and about on .:ampus in the early morning hours in the past two weeks you may have asked yourself, who IS that group of peopk and why arc th~.:y running at 7 a.m.? The answer I'> the cross .:ountry t~am has bc..:n practicing twice a day. In .m (•II urt to UH .. :rca>·A' thl' amount :>I 111dL''> !hey run in a week tht il'all: liac- tWL'II n lt'l'ting at 7 aud the Union Invitational in Saratoga the women's team :--aw some of their work begin to pay off. The team was twice blessed with beautiful weather and an Anselment tailgate after the meet. Due to these pleasant circumst.ancers the ladies were able to run well on their (home away from) home course. The ll'arn plan·d third overall in the meet. Running fir-;1 and -.;econd for !ht' women wert~ l.'o-caplains \1et• Par\on\ and Sandy Anselment with times of 20:58 and 22:21 respectively. Closely following were Lauren Karp, 22:26, and Cindy Hunter, 22:48. Sophomores Tasha LaBarre and Kristen came in next running 23:57 and 24:17. Senior Claire \Mrs.\ Megathlin rounded up the team with a time of 26:37. It looks like a strong season for the lady harriers. Tomorrow they will host the Capital Distri.ct Meet at Saratoga Park at 4 p.m. Come over and cheer rhcrn on. The Game That Almost Was •.• By DAVE AUSTIN and DAVE INCE This past Saturday, the union Rugby Football Club again achieved a magnificent victory. It was for the sturdy St. Lawrence team that the URFC spent an unending week of grueling practice. After enduring two sweltering days of intemperate heat, the rugby gods replenished the pitch's thirst for nutrients, allowing for the well conditioned athletes to get ahead in our studies. Following the well disciplined Friday practice, our men were blood thirsty and ready. As the warm sun dried away Saturday's early morning dew, and our team completed it's religious, morning calisthenics, the URFC's match secretary, Toby Overdorf, suddenly received a call from a fearful member of the St. Lawrence team. As the quivering voice echoed over the TRACK & FIELD CLINIC SAT., DEC. 8, 1990 Organized and run by professional Track and Field athletes and coaches including: JAN JOHNSON- 1972 Pole Vault Bronze phone, Toby could perceive the consternation of the spineless team that deteriorated at the thol!lght of our mighty Ruggers. It seems that our skill would have to be proved amongst familiar faces as the captains cognized the absence of the guest team. Dl!le the anger of serum half Dave Stein, he threw himself into a elephantine ruck, snapping his collar-bone in four places. Stein, wanting to walk to Ellis, was taken away in an ambulance, escorted by three security cars, and a paramedic truck. It is the wishes of the URFC that the entire campus turn out this Saturday at 1:00 p.m. for what will prove to be a detrimental 80 minutes for the visiting RPI players. our battle will be fought in memory of our intrepid \Killer B \ David Stein. All returning alumni are welcome to partake in this momentous event. CHRISTMAS RUSH SAT., DEC. 22,1990 Medalist Former World Featuring High School and Record Holder. Open Track and Field STEVE MILLER- Events, including the Head Coach at Kansas Master's Mile. State University. Olympic Relays in High School and Team Manager-1992. Open DMsions ... BOTH EVENTS TO BE HELD AT MEMORIAL FIELDHOUSE, UNION COLLEGE, SCHENECTADY, N.Y.** ~-~ -~---~- ----------- [!J~u©~ ©©LL~@~ ~ ®®~ lEw~?Ju~ \DUTCHMAN GAMES, JANUARY 27-28, 1991' *UNION OPEN, APRIL 24, 1991* ·uNION SPRING CLASSIC, MAY 17, 1991\ *EDDY MEET, MAY 18, 1991* *TAC LEVEL 1 COACHING SCHOOL, JUNE 22-24, 1991* FOR FURTHER DETAILS I ARRANGEMENTS CONTACT: DAVE HERRINGTON UNION COlLEGE SCHENECTADY, NY 12308 518-370-654 7 .· - ~ __ ·_-__ · Snow, Civil Engineetin:g.Interviews may ~ manged by contacting Prof.· Hayes; the committee chair~ at extension 6337. Write for Sports- Contact Andy at 381-4650 or Box 212 ,, ':

CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 23 CUnnmrbirnsis Women's Tennis. Defeats Albany St. For lsi Time Since 1982 By ANDY BRAVER, Sports Editor This past Sunday, the Women's Tennis team defeated Albany St., 6 matches to 3, and improved their season record to 4-3. It was the .first time in the last six tries that the Lady Dutcbmen have beaten the Great Danes, and only the second time in the 13 meetings .of the two teams. For their inspired and impressive victory, the Women's, Tennis Team has been selected as C oncordienses Sports Athletes of the Week. The ten-member team credits a great deal of its success thus far to their cohesiveness and hard working attitude. Coach Sandy Vohr has assembled a smaller team than last year, with the addition <>f only two new faces, freshmen Kirsten Dibble and Blaire Spritzer, and the close-:Jmit group has come together. Senior co-captain Elissa Rosenzweig, who plays third singles and second doubles, believes that the improvement over last year is due to the smaller, more unified team, as well as the consistency and stability. Five of the six singles players: Dibble; sophomore Elissa Katz; Rosenzweig. junior J en Hill, and Spritzer, alsoplay doubles, which helps their concentration and overall game. Against Albany St., Dibble, Katz, and R()senzweig won the first ~hree singles matches, while Pritzer won the sixth singles. Judy Park (who plays fourth singles), playing for the inji:IJ'ed Jen HiU, teamed with senior co-captain Katrina Knuff t() win third doubles, while Katz and Rosenzweig teamed to win the second doubles match in s-traight sets. Sophomore Julie Schang also contributed a straight victory in an exhibition match. Junior exhibition players, Louise Oster and Eve-Lynn Miller, will get their opportunities in the three remaining matches-- today against Williams, Saturday against Skidmore, and Momday against RPI. All three matches are at home, and the team hopes that its ever-increasing support from the spirited home fans will continue. With two victories in the final three mate hes, the swinging Lady Dutchmen can wrap up their first winning season since 1982. Good ·luck: and congratulations to the 1990 Women's Tennis 'ream, the C o n cor d i e n s is Sports Athletes of the Week. The 1990 Women's Tennis Team: {from left to riQht) Back Row: Jen Hill, Eve-Lvnn Miller, louise Oster, Julie Schang. Coach Sandy Vohr. Middle Row: Blaire Spritzer, Katrina Knuff, Judy Park. Bottom ~ow: Elissa Rosenzweig, Elissa Katz, Kirsten Dibble. COINJCORD~ENIS~·s SPORTS @lUJ fE~lf 0 (0)00 (Q)[F i (J=fl[E WIElE~ ~ Only' one Tight End is a rnerrtber ~ ~ of the I'-JF'L Hall of Fanh1e. \lY V.lho is he? ~~~w=~ ~~ ~m:n©o~ lf)ll~ ~. ----=-~. One v~linner shall b~ chosen from all correct r-- ·· ---1 entries. Su.bnlit. entries tJ:) BOX 21 2 no later than S:OO on tile Mondav ~-/ after each iss~€' of Concordiensis~ e ~\' L~.st ~Y./eel<s's Ansv·ier: tv1a·;tic~ Kareem, .James 'Worth}l, a.nd M;1chal Thompson . Last Week's Winner: Matt Schmitter Mouthing Off Money Matters By ANDY BRAVER, Sports Editor In the past few weeks, it has become increasingly evident to me that there is a problem with the economics of professional sports. Because of the increasing popularity of sports in America and the subesequent boom in television revenues and royalties, the amount of money that is shared by all involved parties has grown past the point of comprehepsion. As a result, the greed of the owners, as well as the athletes themselves, in many cases, has superseded the events on the field. The problems do not lie in the fact that the money is there for the taking. Rather, I believe that sports overall have improved because they have become full year occupations. The exorbitant, and ever- increasing, salaries have eliminated the need for players and coaches to look for additional employment in the off-season. However, they also realize that if they stop working and preparing for the upcoming season, they'll lose their edge and possibly future compensation. So, because the teams can afford to pay their employees well, everyone can devote 12 months of the year to their espective sports, and to winning. Baseball playes play winter ball in the Caribbean and South America to work on areas (){ their game that need fine tuning and improvement. Basketball players play in summer leagues all over the country in an effort to retain their touch and timing. Football and hockey players work out and follow rigorous training programs to improve their sttength and conditioning. What the money istelf does is foster individual greed and inflated egos which, most of the time, only effect the loyal (and paying) customers, the fans. Because when it comes down to it, the fan pays for everything, like the tickets and souvenirs, as well as tons of food at the games. However, they also buy the products that are advertised on TV during the games themselves. If the consumers, i.e., the fans, didn't buy the products, beer breweries and automobile manufacturers would spend their hard earned dollars to advertise during other forms of programming. It works this way. A fan buys S<\a.~on tickets to the New York Giants. However, he is a real fan. After eating hot dogs and drinking watered-down beer to his heart's content (or detriment), he goes home and watches more games on TV, and eats Doritos and drinks Bud Lite. This fan has an IS-year- old son, and when he decides to buy him a car for his high school graduation, by buys an Oldsmobile because he remembers seeing that commercial with the slogan, \This is not your father's Oldsmobile.\ It sounds good enough to him, so puts down a deposit with his Citibank Visa and calls Allstate and The Pr:udential to price automobile insurance. See what advertising during a football game can do? Anyway, the point I am trying to make deals with individual greed and inflated egos. If a player signs a contract, albeit for one season or for ten seasons, both parties, the team and the player are supposed to abide by it. This only happens in a perfect and ethical world, and it seems as if professional sports, as a whole, is not a part of this Utopia. Imagine that Michael Jordan after being drafted out of college N:J. 3 overall by the Chicago Bulls, signed a seven- year guaranteed contract worth $7 million, and everybody was ecstatic. But three seasons, two scoring titles and two MVPs later, the harmony is gone. The salaries of other players have increased so quickly that Jordan and his $1 million a season is a little above the league AVERAGE. Obviously, and rightfully so, Jordan wants his contract renegotiated because he feels he should be one of the highest paid players in the league. This is where the problems arise. What should the team do? Should they pay Jordan the money he deserves in compariso 1 to other players in the league, or should the Bulls hold him to the remaining four seasons of the contract? Well, it's an easy answer-- too bad for Joran. It is not the Bulls' problem that salaries have increased so quickly. When the contract was originally signed, it was done so in good faith by both parties. Jordan would have been paid his money if he never played a game because of an injury (like Brian Bosworth), or if he turned out to be a bust (like Ralph Sampson). The team doesn't have the right to say to a player, \You stink, give us back some of that money we're paying you.\ They can't tell a guy they are cutting his salary in half because he made three errors last night. It just doesn't work that way. So, players should not have the 'right' to say they won't play until they make more money. If a team honestly believes that a player is not being paid his market value, the team can resolve the situation amicJbly b) rcnogiating the contract. But they also have the right not to do this, and wait until the contract expires. Money hungry players flexing their egos and comparing their 'market value' to that of other players have only hc1ped tarnish the image of today's professional athlete in the eyes of the American public. They had better watch out, or that TV revenue will stop flowing in their direction.

•'i ' ': CONCORDIENSIS, October 11, 1990 Page 23 <!Tvnrorbtrnsis SPORTS Women's Tenais Defeats Albany St. For l·st Time Sin:ce 1982 By ANDY BRAVER, Sports Editor 1'his past Sunday, the Women's Tennis team defeated Albany St., 6 matches to 3, and improved their season record to 4-3. It was the first time in the last six tries that the Lady Dutchmen have beaten the Great Danes, and only the second time in the 13 meetings of the two teams. For tl1eir inspired and impressive victory, the Women's Tennis Team has been selected as Concordienses Sports Atbletes of the Week. The ten-member team credits a gt:eat deal of its success thus f2r to their cohesiveness and llard working attitude. Coach Sandy Vohr has assembled a smaller team than last year, with the addition of only two new faces, freshmen Kirsten Dibble and Blaire Spritzer, and the close-knit group has come together. Senior co-captain Elissa Rosenzweig, who plays third singles and second doubles, believes that the improvement over last year is due to the smaller, more unified team, as well as the consistency and stability. Five of the six singles players: Dibble; sophomore Elissa Katz; Rosenzweig, junior Jen Hill, and Spritzer, also play doubtes, which .helps their concentration and overall game. Against Albany St., Dibble, Katz, and Rosenzweig won the first three singles matches, while Pritzcr won the sixth singles. Judy Park (who plays fourth singles), playing for the injured Jen Hill, teamed with senior co-captain Katrina Knuff to win third doubles, while Katz and Rosenzweig teamed to wi,n the second doubles match in straight sets. Sophomore Julie Schang also contributed a straight vic tory in an exhibition match. Junior exhibition players, Louise Oster and Eve-Lynn Miller, will get their opportunities in the three remaining matches-- today against Williams, Saturday against Skidmore, and Monday against RPI. All three matches are at home, and the team hopes that its ever-increasing support from the spirited home fans will continue. With two victories in the final three matches, the swinging Lady Dutchmen can wrap up their first winning season since 1982. Good luck and congratulations to the 1990 Women's Tennis Team, the Concordiensis Sports Athletes of the Week. The 1990 Women's Tennis Team: (from left to riQht) Back Row: Jen Hill, Eve-Lvnn Miller, Louise Oster, Julie Schang. Coach Sandy Vohr. Middle Row: Blaire Spritzer, Katrina Knuff, Judy Park. Bottom Row: Elissa Rosenzweig, Elissa Katz, Kirsten Dibble. COlNICORD~lENS~S SPORTS @llJHE$1r ~ (0)lM (OJ[F 1r lHHE W lE lE OC Onl\l one Tight End is a rnernber @ ' ._. IIIII I c·f the I···IFL Hall()[ F:3.rne. \Vho is he? Th®~~~@ ~rn: ![(Qt~:mmc~ If'll~ a One -.;Ninner shall be cho::;en from all correct . ~ntries Sutmut ~ntries to BOX 2 I 2 . . no later than 5:00 ()11 tllEo> l\·1onday ~--} a.fwr .;;-;::tell issue of Cvll(()rdiensis. • -~.... Lz;.:;t Vv'eeks's Ans\Ner: ~ ... 1a·Jic, Karr&ern, .James V't'orth;l .. and tv1}·'Chal Thompson Last Week's Winner: Matt Schmitter Tenurability of Professor Fatic An ad hoc committee has been formed to consider the tenurability of Professor Vuk Fatic of the Departn1ent of· .. Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Any member of the college community wishing to submit material or testimony before this committee is encouraged to so so by contacting any member of the ad hoc committee: Professors Alan Taylor, mathematics Department, Chairman; Ed Craig, Electrical Engi~eering; Francis Federighi, Computer Science; Adrian .•. ·. FrazierjJ :J:t~,~~~sh. Mouthing Off Money Matters By ANDY BRAVER, Sports Editor ln the past few weeks, it h.as become increasingly evident to me that there is a problem with the economics of professional sports. Because of the increasing popularity of sports in America and the subesequent boom in television revenues and royalties, the amount of money that is shared by all involved parties has grown past the point of cornprehepsion. As a result, the greed of the owners, as well as the athletes themselves, in many cases, h.as superseded the events on the field. The problems do not lie in the fact that the money is there for the taking. Ralher, I believe that sports overall have improved because they have become full year occupations. The exorbitant, and ever- increasing, salaries have eliminated the need for players and coaches to look for additional employment in the off-season. However, they also realize that if they stop working and preparing for the upcoming season, they'll lose their edge and possibly future compensation. So, because the teams can afford to pay their employees well, everyone can devote 12 months of the year to their espective sports, and to winning. Baseball playes play winter ball in the Caribbean and South America to work on areas of their game that need fine tuning and improvement. Basketball players play in summer leagues all over th.e country in an effort to retain their touch and timing. Football and hockey players work out and follow rigorous training programs to improve their strength and conditioning. What the money istelf does is foster individual greed and inflated egos which, most of the time, only effect the loyal (and paying) customers, the fans. Because when it comes down to it, the fan pays for everything, like the tickets and souvenirs, as well as tons of food at the games. However, they also buy the products that are advertised on TV during the games themselves. If the consumers, i.e., the fans, didn't buy the products, beer breweries and automobile manufacturers would spend their hard earned dollars to advertise during other forms of programming. It works this way. A fan buys sea..\on tickets to th..: Nev. York Giants. However, he is a real fan. After eating hot dogs and drinking watered-down beer to his heart's content (or detriment), he goes home and watches more games on TV, and caLs Doritos and drinks Bud Lite. This fan has an 18 -year- old son, and when he decides to buy him a car for his high school graduation, by buys an Oldsmobile because he remembers seeing that commercial with the slogan, \This is not your father's Oldsmobile.\ It sounds good enough to him, so puts down a deposit with his Citibank Visa aad calls Allstate and The Prudential to price automobile insurance. See what advertising during a football game can do? Anyway, the point I am trying to make deals with individual greed and inflated egos. If a player signs a contract, albeit for one season or for ten seasons, both parties, the team and the player arc supposed to abide by it. This only happens in a perfect and ethical world, and it seems a-; if professional sports, as a whole, is not a part of this Utopia. Imagine that Michael Jordan after being drafted out of college N :l. 3 overall hy the Chicago Bulls, signed a sewn- year guaranteed contract worth $7 million, and t'vcryhody was ecstatic. But three seasons. two scoring titles :md l\\'O \1\ P~ later, the harmony i~ gone. The salaries of other players have increased so quickly that Jordan and his Sl mil~wn a St'ason IS a little above the league AVERAGE. Obviously, and rightfully so. Jordan wants his contract renegotiated because he feels he should be one of the highest paid players in the league. This is where the problems arise. What should the team do? Should they pay Jordan the money he deserves in compariso 1 to other players in the league, or should the Bulls hold him to the remaining four seasons of the contract? Well, it's an easy answer-- too bad for Joran. It is not the Bulls' problem that salaries have increased so quickly. When the contract was originally signed, it was done so in good faith by both parties~ Jordan would have been paid his money if he never played a game because of an injury (like Brian Bosworth), or if he turned out to be a bust (like Ralph Sampson). The team doesn't have the right to say to a player, \You stink, give us back some of that money we're paying you.\ They can't tell a guy they arc cutting his salary in half because he made three errors last night. It just doesn't work that way. So, players should not have the 'right' to say they won't play until they make more money. If a team honestly believes that a player is not being paid his market value, the team can resolve the situ at i Lln a 111 i L\ a b I 1 b) rcnogiating the contract. But they also have the right Il<ll to do this, an(l wait until the contract expires. Money hungry pla)~o'rs flexing their egos and comparing th~o.·ir ·market 'al u~.·· to that of otht•r playas havt> only hdp<.'d tarni:-;h lh~o· inug~o' of today's professional athk·te in the eyes of the American public. They had hettcr watch out, or that TV revenue will stop tlowi ng in their dinxtinn.

The Rugby Team Is looking to 'Play any kind of g:ame. See Page 22 1or details. The Football Team looks to ,run past RPI Saturday. Cheer them on as they come on home. Volleyball Team Continues Winning Ways :By SPORTS STAFF The Union Women's Volleyball team is right on track with last year's record, and its goal of a bid to the 1990 NYSWCAA Volleyball Championships is in sight. They are looking to better last year's 13th seed and 9th place fin ish in the State Championships. ·· With a match record of 12-6 and a .667 winning percentage, the Dutchwomen are feeling confident about their chances at securing a bid, as long as they continue to play as aggressively and consistently as they have to this point. Last week, Union defeated the College of St. Rose, S-15, 15-0, 15-11, 15-6, as they continued their winning ways. Most of the team has returned from last year, which is a crucial reason for the success so far this year. The veteran players are Deb Berman, Maggie Brush, McKeough Carlin, Roberta Carroll, Sarah Dudzic, Kim Marra, Susie Smith and Lisa Stillman. Adding more depth to this year's squad is freshman Brenda Marsh, and sophomores Susan Laing and Lea Lewis. First year head coach Joanne Little has made a smooth transition keeping the positive attitude, and is attempting to increase the team's winning record from last year and gain that bid to the NYSWCAA Championships. Leading the Dutchwomen is junior Sarah Dudzic, who has 63 kills and 24 digs, while Keo Carlin has accounted for 41 kills and 19 digs of her OW9.. Deb Berm: n and Brenda MarSh each have £·acked up 28 and 23 kills, respectively, while Maggie Brush has added 6 kills and H digs. Defensively, Bobbi Carroll has played a critical part, contributing 27 blocks. The consistency of veteran setters Lisa Stillman and Kim Marra, along with backup setter Susie Smith, has been an important aspect of the team's success as they confidently run the offense. Coach Little believes a good deal of the success of the team emerges from the cohesivness, talent and overall play. Tonight at 7:00 p.m., the 1990 Women's Volleyball plays its last home match against Siena. Come out and support the Dutchwomen as they make a run for the postseason. SPORTSWEEK Thursday, October 11 Men's Soccer vs Siena Field Hockey vs Williams Women's Tennis vs Williams Friday, October 12 Women's X-Country Capital District Meet Saturday, October 13 - HOMECOMING Football vs RPI Men's Soccer vs API Field Hockey at Middlebury Women's Soccer at Plattsburgh Volleyball at Vassar Tourney Men's X-Country vs RPI Women's Tennis vs Skidmore Rugby vs API Monday, October 15 Women's Tennis vs RPI Tuesday, October 16 Volleyball at Hamilton Wednesday, October 17 Men's Soccer vs Rochester Field Hockey at Siena Women's Soccer at Albany St. 1990 3:30 4:00 4:00 1:00 1 :30 11 :00 11 :00 2:00 9:00 10:30 1:00 1:00 3:00 6:00 3:00 4:00 3:30 October 1 i, 1990 Football Ready For RPI By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor This Saturday afternoon, the Union Dutchmen kick-off against arch rival RPI. The Homecoming game is the 88th renewal of new York State's oldest collegiate football rivalry. Union's record books show the Dutchmen holding a decisive 67-16-4 series advantage, while API claims that Union's margin stands at 65-1Jl-4. Union has won 26 of the past 30 meetings and took B of 1 o during the 1-980's. The Dutchman defense has shut out the Engineers 25 times and owns a 34-7- 2 record at home. API is off to one of its best starts ever at 3-0-1 and are coming off a 34-0 whitewash of Stonehill. CHAMPION TOP 5 Upstate New York Poll 1. Cortland (12) 76 2. Ithaca (3) 61 3. UNION (1) 51 4.RPI 32 5. Buffalo 9 Union is ranked Third in the current Champion Top Five Upstate New York Division Ill Poll. Cortland St. vaulted into the top spot this week after Ithaca lost to AIC on Saturday. Cortland received 12 of 16 first place votes, Ithaca three, and Union one. RPI is ranked 4th. Individually, Union's Junior running back Alex Filepe is seventh in rushing yards per game with an average of 82.8. Junior quarterback Brett Russ is eighth in passing efficiency with a rating of 113.4. Russ has completed 61 of 113 passes for 707 yards and 6 touchdowns. Head coach AI Bagnoli has won 70 games at the helm for Union. Since taking control of the Dutchmen in 1982, Bagnoli's teams have suffered only 18 defeats with 5 of those losses coming in the NCAA Division Ill playoffs. Women's Tennis No L~n~er Rebu1ld1ng By JARED SELTER 1989 can now be labeled a rebuilding year for the Union College Women's 1'enni~ Team. Excuses are not necessary, but they are plentiful. The team was plagued by problems of adjusting to a new coach, playing on run-down courts, and-fighting off the intrusion of non-team members playing during the team's practice time. All teams have years such as 1989, and most of them end with records similar to the two win, seven loss, and two incomplete record Dutchwomen finish. But 1990 will not be such a year. The team has already surpassed th~ir win total from last season after only five matches and looks forward to more wins snch as the 9-0, 9-0, and 8-1 bl<Jwouts of Hartwick, North Adams State, and Russell Sage, respectively. One reason the 1990 Dutchwomen are by far better than their counterparts last season is that head coacll Sandy Vohr is now in her second year with the team. Vohr inlterited a team last season that had been run with little ()r no organization. \The first year back (1989) was a tough one,\ Vohr said. Vohr had beell with the Dutchwomen in the past, but there has been a long interim between her C()aching last year and her position in years past. The coach .admits to imposing new \rules and regulations\ on the team, but they have paid off with obvious success. Beca11se she is now familiar with t1le team, Vohr was able to only ask a few of last year's varsity members to play i11 1990 allowing her to concentrate on the best of the past along with the best of the present. The present this year are freshmen phenoms Kirsten Dibble and Blaire Spritzcr. Dibble, a native of Westchester County, New York, has taken over the number one singles spot for the Dutchwomen. Dibble replaces the loss of Valerie Sarwin to graduation last season. Spritzer, heralding from Miami, FL, plays in the sixth singles position and joins Dibble in the number one doubles spot. Former varsity members who held the top position on the team now play in the lower places showing the team's great depth and bringing maturity and experience to matches normally given to less seasoned players. \What has helped us is that we got Dibble,\ Vohr said. But she is quick to add that, \It is a team effort,\ that has brought Union its success on the courts thus far. The final few matches the Dutchwomen face in 1990 are not going to be easy ones. \We have a difficult schedule,\ Vohr said. The ieam still must face Williams '\hich could produce a victory or a defeat. Three losses have already come at the hands of Hamilton, Vassar, and Oneonta this year. But an almost sure loss will come at the hands of .Skidmore on Homecoming Weekend. Union stands little chance against a team that is ranked as high as fifth amongst Division Three teams as Skidmore. If only Hartwick were scheduled on Homecoming. ' Though they face adversity, the Dutchwomen and Vohr are looking at \a winning season this year.\ The team has finished adjusting to their coach, is t·sed to the condition of the cou;ts, and has cleared up last year's confusibn. \They've gotten used to me and I've gotten used to them,\ Vohr said. The team is competing better than ever and is basking in the glow of their recent success. The rebuilding is now complete.

Vot CXX, No .. 4 Old Residential Policy Reinstated Juniors must live on campus beginning next year By MA Tl' LANNI Associate News Editor On October 12, 1990, the Board of Trustees ''affirmed and endorsed\ a residential policy that requires students to live on campus through their junior year. The policy has not been enforced since 1985, and is being reinstated in order to fill the residential halls. This policy will go into effect with the next housing lottery. However, in a statement issued The Board's decision to enforce this policy is due to the decrease cf students living on campus. by the Board of Trustee, it was announced that members of Greek houses which are privately owned, \on campus ... or immediately off campus, will be permitted to live in these residences after their freshman year.\ The Board's decision to reinforce this policy is due to the decrease of students living on campus. Currently there are over 150 beds which are not filled. That is a loss of $370,000 in revenues for the College. There are also . concerns about the decreasing size of freshman classes, and the fact that the largest of the current four classes is graduating in the spring. The policy will have some flexibility built in. Juniors who wish to live off campus will be allowed to provided that they find a senior who is willing to live on campus. In addition the Board has decided to renovate all campus housing, giving North, South, and Maxcy House priority. A committee will be formed to determine what Maxcy House, formerly Beta Theta Pi's residence, will be used for. There is also a distinct possibility that Gamma Phi Beta will get at least one floor in either Fox or Davidson with this new policy. Alumni, parents and friends packed Bailey Field this weekend as the football team brought home a victory over R.P.I. President Hull exits Memorial Chapel witll William Pearson Tolley, Chancellor Emeritus of Syracuse University. Hull Reveals His Agenda At Inauguration Stresses Service, Worldliness By JAY FREELAND News Editor The Inauguration of Roger H. Hull last Sunday provided the forum for the 17th President of Union College to announce plans for some sweeping changes. In his inaugural address, which highlighted the hour- and-a-half long ceremony at Memorial Chapel, President Hull introduced a new financial program that would allow some students to attend Union free of charge through cancellable loans. He also announced his intentions to see to it that 100 percent of the student body participate in a term abroad. President Hull also expressed the need for a more diverse student body, including greater numbers of people of color as well as students from outside the northeast, where Union traditionally draws most of its students. The new financial aid program is targeted at the middle class, who are often in need of aid but fail to qualify. The pmgram is known as the Chester Arthur Undergraduate Support of Excellence (CAUSE) Awards, named for the former president and Union alumnus who founded the Civil Service Commission. \Recipients of CAUSE Awards will receive funding in President Hull's Inaugural Address in Full Pages 4 and 5 the fo1111 of cancellable loans during tlle time that they are in attendance at Union, with the understanding that the loans will be cancellable at a rate of twenty percent for each year after graduation that a student engages in public service- oriented activities such as the Peace Corps or teaching in CCJntinued on page 3 October 18, 1990 Environmental Protection An Investment In New York's Future By GOVERNOR MARIO M. CUOMO New York has a rich tradition of widespread support for environmental protection, a tradition which began over a century ago when our ancestors had the foresight to set aside large tracts of the Adirondacks and Catskills and declare these lands to be \Forever Wild.\ Those early New Yorkers became the pioneers of a whole new attitude towards nature, by writing into law the simple truth that we cannot survive if we destroy our natural surroundings. Over the decades, that tradition and its ethic of stewardship have fl()urished and grown stronger in New York without respect to partisan politics ... . . . I proposed the 21st Century Environmental Bond Act to continue our environmental progress and to prepare the state for the challenges of life in a new century. Those challenges require that we renew our commitment to u:pgrade the state's environmental infrastructure, sewage treatment plants and waste management systems, and to preserve remaining pristine areas of open space, environmentally sensitive lands and our antural and cultural legacy while we can ... ... The $1.975 billion 21st Century En vi ron men tal Quality Bond Act--P'roposal #1 on the November 6 ballot-is the most comJJrehensive environmental bond act in New York's history. It authorizes state spending of up to $1.975 billion for the following environmental programs: Continued IJn page 11 In This Issue: Vanishing Rain Forests -Page 10 \Beyond ·Therapy\ -Page 17 Football Takes \Dutchmen's Shoes\ -Page 24

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 (1Jnnr.nrbirnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Voter Apathy Among ' Students Found to Be Extremely High By TRACEY PRYLUCK VOTE!!! It's a simple request (order?), yet for some reason the vast majority of college students fail to exercise their right to the franchise every election year. The poor voter turnout among college students has been remarked upon ever since the 26th amendment extended the right to vote to all individuals 18 years of age or older. It appears that student apathy is not only prevalent on the Union campus, rather it extends to college students nationwide. Perhaps college students are frustrated by current obstacles posed by state and local elelction officials. These administrators have developed poelicies such as residency re<.J.uirements that often require stn(\ents attending a college or university in a town other than - tlla:t in which they formerly H appears that student apathy is not on.ly ,prevalent on the Union campus, rather it extends tC) College campuses 11ationwide. r.esided to submit additional proof of residency. Other obstacles are posed by di;fficulties in obtaining absentee ballots. \'Yet these difficulties are hudly insurmountable. Absentee ballots must be requested about two months prior to the general election. Elections are always held on the frrst Tuesday after the frrst Monday in November, and if you mark a 1991 calendar now~ you will have no excuse for not registering for next year's absentee ballot. Perhaps college students are unaware of the long history of demonstrations, rallies, protests, fighting, and even war that have resulted from the struggle to obtain universal suffrage. The colonists' rallying cry during the American Revolution of \No taxation without representation!\ was essentially based on the belief that the white male colonists, at least, should be able to elect their representatives to the English Parliament. The colonists were not content with the claims that their interests were being represented by members of Parliament residing in England. It took a Civil War to grant black males the right to vote, with the passage of the 13th amendment. Yet it was another hundred years before that right could be freely ex.ercised in the southern states. Prior to the civil rights movement of the 1960s,. blacks faced persecution and even . the possibility of violent execution through lynching if they asserted their right to the franchise or .refused to be bought off. Women's suffrage did not require a war, but tather intense rallies and lobbying on the state and national level for nearly 150 years. This struggle brought family conflict and social ostracism to many Can it be that College students are so absorbed in their own little worlds that they fail 1o see the big picture, aod don't vote? suffragettes. In comparison, college students have faced few difficulties in obtaining the right to vote. Yet the fact that the majority of these students fail to· vote each year is irrefutable. There must be some logical reason for this apparent student apathy, or is there? Can it truly be that college students are so absorbed in their own little worlds that they fail to see the big picture, and fail to exercise their right to the ,fran~hise? Is it possible that elected officials are right in their assessment that the needs and concerns of college students need only be addressed in terms of the manner in which they affect the parents of .college students? Can this conclusion be justified-- this conclusion based on the belief that students would not realize their needs are not being addressed by their elected officials, or, even if they did realize, that these students would never cast a vote to oust those officials who are not responsive to their needs? Is it true that students really do NOT care? Perhaps the case has just never been presented in these terms. Perhaps students simply are not aware of the implications of their failure to vote. Perhaps this article wil:L make these students rethink their behavior and vote in the next election. Perhaps. Cold War Is Thawing By JIM POLITES While the celebrated Reunification of Germany· and ongoing crisis in the Midd.le East have dominated the media's attention over the past three months, a common, encouraging factor has emerged in terms of the United States' improved diplomatic relations with our former arch nemesis, the Soviet Union. The Cold War, now an obscure memory of struggle between the two superpowers, was a result of conflicting social ideologies in which communism challenged the American beliefs of capitalism and democracy. A Socialist Republic works toward distributing income evenly throughout a population in an effort to eliminate class structure. The ultimate body in power is the central government, whose function is to guide and legislate the people in the all-embracive quest to better the State. Conversely, the U.S. firmly adheres to the rewards and achievements of private ell terprise, while allowing its citizens the potential of Jlersonal gain and wealth as incentive to innovation. Obviously, there is an e11ermous discrepency between the societal demands expected ()f Soviets and Americans, and this conflict, along with a ,growing animosity and mistrust between governing bodies following World War II, served as the basic impetus to th.e lack of agreement on global iss11es. More recently, the Cold War has been highlighted by a series of symbolic diplomatic maneuvers that surfaced under tne Carter and Reagan .acltninistrations, determinations ah.at antagonized each side and <lid nothing more than widen ahe communication gap. Carter's decision to boycott the 1980 Summer Olympic (}ames in Moscow (reciprocated by tile Soviets in tile 1984 Los Angeles games), was a move that brought Student Phonathon November 1-4 Come Get INVOLVED! political strain and implications to a worldwide event that normally brings the world together for two weeks. Now, a division between Socialist and Democratic philosophy undermined any such feeling. Ronald Reagan initiated landmark summit meetings with Mikhail Gorfbachev during his presidency-- a true effort to open relations that had been all but forgotten in recent times. Unfortunately, any breakthroughs in negotiation only resulted in a reduction of arms that were earlier escalated by Reagan's massive Star Wars planning. President Bush, with his easygoing and soft-spoken manner, seems to relate and understand Soviet thinking better than any of his predecessors. Long .known for his wisdom in foreign diplomacy, he has learned to listen rather than assume and a positive m::.tcrop is the thawing of the once embittered Cold War. Reagan was a much more charismatic, Ho1lywood type whose image demanded first attention. He would promote small agreements that did not cause the United States to relinquish much while keeping the mindset of U.S. superiority deeply ingrained in the public. Bush chose to stick with his own personal manner in dealing with international relations, and it is quite obvious that the Soviets have taken much more openly to his approach, rather than dealing with a figure who outwardly makes promises and then rescinds behind closed doors. Gorbachev, who has proven to be the most flexible and liberal of Soviet communists, must take a great deal of credit for turning a world\'threatening situation between the U.S.S.R. and U.S. into a positive relationship based increasingly on trust and mutual understanding. In fact, the Soviet leader this week was named the recipient of the Nobel Peace Prize for his visionary policies and global diplomacy. Bush has called for a new world order stemming from the remains of the Cold War, and it appears that Gorbachev has every intention of assisting. Once unthinkable, the two superpowers have embarked on a quest to lead the world into a new decade and century of peaceful negotiations between countries. A journey that can only improve with existing vision and time. 11\G MflPPRil\1E DEFICIT REMlON PLAN I I I j . ; I I ' ; I ' ! I I l I I I I l j I I

I I I j . ; ' I ' ; I ' ! I I l I f ! I l l i I CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 3 ~resident Hull relaxes following ceremonies. Hull Announces Unique 'Cause' Awards Continued rrom page 1 kindergarten through 12th gradeo public schools or not-for-profit work on behalf of theo environment cra.t-risk group~,\ said the President in his: speech. Mr. Hull talked also abo:ut the need for terms abroad 1() acclimate students with !l shrinking world. A mo:re diversified student body woll.l(f be another way to accustolll students to w<Jrld culture. The pr<>cession of approximately 200 admiiJis- trators, faculty, distinguished guests, trustees, and student government officers left tt()lll Social Sciences at 10:45 a.IU. Following the opening lJy Marshal Byron A. Nichols of the Political Science Department and the invocati()n - by William 'Tolley, Chancello:1' . Emeritus of Syracn s.e University, President Hull was offered formal greetings by the platform members. The official welcome was olffered by Norton H. Reamer, Class of 1958 and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Additional greetings were offered by John Meier, Class of 1991 an.d Senior Trustee, Barbara Burek, Class of 1975 and President of the Alumni Council, Charles Tidrnarch, Professor ofPolitical Science and Chair of the Faculty Executive Committee, Martin Belsky, Presideat and Dean of Albany Law School, Laura Chodos, Member of tile Board of Regents for New York State, Sara Chapman, President of Russell Sage College, and Mayor Karen Johnson of Schenectady. At the reception following Hull's inauguration, many students and faculty expressed their excitement over the apparent enthusiasm and drive displayed by President Hull. Most were encouraged by his proposals on Cause loans and international students. There was some skepticism, however, with regard to Hull's goal for 100% participation in the term abroad program. Most agreed that it was good to aim high, but expressed concern over whether this wonld become a mandatory pr<>gram, or remain a goal to be achieved by other methods. Most faculty and students were of the opinion that a mandatory program would hurt the College more than it would help. The overall initial opinion of President Hull has been overwhelmingly· positive. Most see President Hull taking a strong and influential role within the College commllnity in the very near future, if not sooner. One trustee stated after the trustees' meeting last weekend that the change in atmosphere was immediately noticeable and remained throughout the meeting. 1lnton QColltgt ..f'acultp €olloqutum TERRY S. WEINER ASSOCIATE DEAN OF FACULTY PROFESSOR OF SOCIOLOGY \:F1].ASE DON'T CALL ME DOCTOR: THE PHYSICIAN ASSISTANT IN. A CHANGING HEALTH CARE SYSTEM\ TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30TH fl.T 4:30P.M. COLLEGE CENTER AUDITORIUM COFFEE AND TEA AT 4 :DO P.M. ALL ARE WELCOME TO ATTEND Student Forum Spotlight Like the U.S. Congress, the Union College Student Forum spent this past week completing financial and budgetary needs. Despite Coagressi<>nal failures, the Forum was able to grant funding to three Union clubs. The French Club, Boxing Club and Fencing Club all received funding. However, the Union College Emergency Squad and Greek Volleyball Tournament were not granted funding. John Meier and John Lennon, Senior and Junior Trustees respectively, reported the results of this past weekend's trustee meeting .. Both were encouraged by the new life given to the meeting with the presence of President Hull. It was reported that the trustees agreed that the housing policy as stated in the student handbook would be strictly adhered to at this spring's housing lottery. As a result, all freshmen, sophomores, and juniors will be required to live on campus (the two off-campus fraternities will be permitted to house sophomores and juniors). The Forum also briefly discussed the Middle States report. Bre!ldan Clifford~ junior class president, reported that the Fresllman Year and Residence Life section of the report would be discussed at this Thursday's S.A.C. meeting. This section of the report makes recommendations that would make all campus housing co-ed. The meeting will be held Thursday at 4 p.m. in the College Center, 2nd Floor. Anyone interested is invited to attend. Lee Bloomrosen, Director of Student Activites, notified the Fomm that a board was being formed that would consist of several groups that use the College Center cons is ten tl y. The object of this board will be to assure that the College Center will be put to efficient use, keeping activities spread out over the week instead of having an overload on any one night. The Student Forum would like to remind any interested students that petitions for committee openings are due on Friday, October 19. In addition, petitions for Student Forum Representative positions are due tomorrow as well. Students turning in petitions must have their photo taken on Friday afternoon, October 1 9, and must submit a written statement to T h e Concordiensis office by no later than Tuesday, October 23 at 3 p.m. Students who are running for office must complete both of these tasks in order to be eligible . Sigma Delta Tau would like to congratulate the winners of the Annual M&M-A-Thon Will- Allen & . Marco Mancuso

Page 4 CONCORDIENSIS,. October 18, 1990 The Transcript of President Hull's Inaugural Address The History of Union College For those of us who have had the opportunity to lead educational institutions. we know that we have a responsibility at all times to place our efforts in an historic context and to act with a keen sense of obligation to the institution's traditions; for those of us who are fortunate enough to be at institutions that are approaching their third century of service, that resvonsibility is. if anything, even tnore acute. It is a joy and an honor, a pleasure and a privilege, to stand before you today to address that responsibility. Three years after the Declaration of Independence was signed. local petitioners tried to create a college in Schenectady. Two years before the Constitution transformed a loose confederation of states into a true union, Schenectady Academy (the precursor to the college) offered its first courses. Eight years later, during the administration of George Washington and John Adams, the charter for Union College was granted - the first charter granted by the Board of Regents of the State of New York. As Union College approaches its bicentennial in 1995, we do so knowing that we are being exceedingly - perhaps excessively conservative in our calculation as to the date when the college was founded. Often, a college stretches its founding to the earliest possible date. We do not. At Union, we look not to 1779 or to 1785, but to 1795 when the college charter was officially granted. Union As A Leader Chronology aside, Union College has sought continuously and consciously to break new ground. The first such innovation was in the college's very name. \What's in a name? That which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet.\ For a college, though, a name symbolizes a great deal and indicates much about the nature of the institution. We bear neither the name of an individual nor the name of a city. Instead, the founders of the college sought to bring together a union of people of all economic, racial, and religious backgrounds. It was an unusual goal for a college in the 18th century - and an essential one for a college at the end of the 20th century. In seeking to honor the recently formed union of states through a union of all peoples at the collegiate level, the college's founders - Dirck Romeyn and Philip Schuyler, among others - reached across the sea to France rather than follow tradition and look to the past that was Rome. The college's motto - \Sous les lois de Minerve nous devenons tous freres\ (Und the laws of Minerva we all become brothers) - again broke new ground. By choosing Minerva (Athena), the founders made an appropriately wise choice, for they selected as their protector the Goddess of Wisdom; by selecting French, not Latin, as their language, they demonstrated a progressive spirit that set a very different tone for the fledgling institution. The progressive spirit that is Union makes me both proud educational experiments which was his key accomplishment; still others might say that it was his presidential longevity and his ability to preside at Union while serving as the founding president of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute tnat set him apart from other educators. Whichever one chooses or whatever other accomplishment ON UNION'S HISTORICAL DIRECTION The progressive spirit that is Union makes me both proud and happy; proud, because it is good to be willing to take prudent risks and to do things differently; and happy, because I personally feel comfortable with that approach. A college president has no right to alter a college's historic direction but does have an obligation to build on the institution's heritage. one might settle upon, the fact remains that Eliphalet Nott was a person who had a vision, a vision in keeping with that ofRomeyn and Schuyler. Now I will not be a Nott - not in the sense at least of using the state lottery to fmance our projects (although I would love to be able to find a way to do so and not in the sense of presidential longevity, need to work closely with 500,000. students for optimum learning. . Our formula, slightly Great teachers engage their refined, will lead to a more students, share with them the · perfect Union and might serve experience of learning. and, as . a model for other more often than not, use their institutions. We welcome research as a vehicle for that others to join us. We would, in shared experience. No college my judgment, all benefit as can claim to be truly excellent institutions. More importantly, unless its faculty are our students, our communities, committed to their scholarship · · our states, and our nation and to their teaching. At would ben~.fit. Union, we have such a faculty. We have chosen to fill our ranks with an army of teaching scholars, and we will continue - under the protection of · Minerva - to fight our battles with these troops. To do otherwise would be violative of Union's principles and fly in the face .of Union's alumni and faculty giants. There are those who would seek merely to preserve the formula that we feel so strongly about. Yet to truly preserve it, we must do more than simply conserve what was or even what is. With unabashed relentlessness, we must strive - in order to form a more perfect Union - to make the good better and the excellent more so - and, what we cannot do well, we will A Changing Nation We live, as we all know, in a country which is undergoing tremendous change. Indeed, by the middle of the 21st century, those Americans who trace their rots to Europe will be a minority in the United States. The French words of Union's motto and the Latin slogan engraved on U.S. coins - \E pluribus unum\ (one formed from many)- wil take on new meaning for Americans. What we must, what we will, do at Union is to give added emphasis to the symbolic meaning of Union and become more inclusive. and happy: proud, because it is good to be willing to take prudent risks and to do things differently; and happy, because I personally feel comfortable with that approach. A college president has no right to alter a college's historic direction but does have an obligation to build on the institution's heritage. With the progressive spirit that was so clearly demonstrated in the selection of Union's name and of its motto, there is no danger of violating firmly established principles. Indeed. our founders would probably resent only an insipid smugness that would lead to paralyzing inaction - and inaction will never be a label that will be applied to Union. We will build on our firm foundation because it is necessary and right to do so, and we will also preserve what those before us have left ON THE ROLE OF RESEARCH In truth, we have not been fully faithful to our founders' vision. We cannot say that we have been a comprehensive union of all economic A Bold Vision Using history as our guide and inspiration, we will act boldly, take responsible chances to carry out established goals, and articulate Union's visition. A visionless institution is like a stateless person, and the world is filled with far too many of both groups. Aimless wanderings with endless feelings ()f insecurity and their common denominations. Visionless institutions cannot inspire, cannot fulfill their promise, and cannot permit those associated with them to feel good about the good that they provide. My predecessor fourteen times removed, Eliphalet Nott, who served Union for sixty- two years (the longest presidential tenure in American education), captured well the progressive spirit that was the founders' dream and helped make that dream a reality. Recognizing that neither students nor colleges could withdraw from the world, Nott innovatively brought change to the institution and added flesh to the Union skeleton. Some might say that it was the creation by Nott of an engineering program at Union (the first at a liberal arts college) that was his main contribution to the college; others might say that it was his adroit use of the state lottery to fund some of his Some colleges define themselves as teaching institutions; others prefer the label \research college.\ Union College remains convinced that scholarship and teaching are integrally interconnected and that it is not possible to be a great teacher without remaining at the cutting edge of one's field. backgrounds and races and religions - but we expect to be able to say so shortly. We will bring people of disparate backgrounds to this campus, and we will bring in particular more students of African.:. American and Latin-American heritage to Union. We will do so because we believe in the benefits provided to all and because we believe that it is the right thing to do. since actuarial tables (and educational philosophy would preclude me from doing so. However. I will keep the compact alive that extends from Romeyn to Nott to me and seek to advance the vision that is Union. Teaching and Research In the 19th century, four institutions Harvard, Princeton, Union, and Yale - stood o·Jt as the great institutiou of learning and as the largst ··reducers of college graduates at the time. All remain great institutions today. Yet, the other three are very different from Union. Although each of us has relinquished any claim concerning degree productivity, Harvard, Princeton, and Yale are increasingly focusing their efforts on graduate programs. We, on the other hand, have largely remained - and will remain - an institution of teaching scholars at the undergraduate level. Some colleges define themselves as teaching institutions; others prefer the label \research college.\ Union College remains convinced that scholarship and teaching are integrally interconnected and that it is not possible to be a great teacher without remaining at the cutting edge of one's field. Great teachers know the importance of scholarly research as an avenue to intellectual vigor and strength. Great teachers recognize the learn to do well; or we will not do at all. A college that tries to be all things to all people does service to very few, disservice to the vast majority. We will, instead, recognize that our proper role is to do only that which we can do well, and we will insure that we cooperate and coordinate with others and not simply duplicate or Terms Abroad For All If we are citizens of a changing country,we are also part of a shrinking world. A student who graduates from college today or tomorrow who is unable to deal with people of ON NEW FINANCIAL AID CAUSE Awards will be available to committed students who need them - with funds being available to far more individuals than is not the case. Since we recognize that families have to make sacrifices, we will join with them in making a sacrifice. replicate their actions. For nearly two centuries, Union has focused its attention 1 for the most part on the liberal arts and has sought - through one-on-one teaching by scholars - to develop students' abilities to communicate and to learn to think. For nearly a century and a half, the college has provided an engineering component that spearates it from all but half a handful of its liberal arts brethren. Union will continue to puruse the liberal arts and engineering formula, for, today more than ever, li'Jeral arts and engineering have major roles to play on the educational stage, especially as the United States faces ever-increasing ethical and technological challenges and projected shortages of engineers by the year 2010 of more than different backgrounds will have a very difficult time coping in our society and be at a severe disadvantage with respect to the rest of the world. Although one could count on ne's hands the number of colleges in the United States who send more students abroad than does ' Union. our 40 percent plus figure is not good enough. In coming years, we will seek to make that number 100 percent - 100 percent- because only by exposing students directly to other cultures will they develop both . an ~ppreciation and understanding of the United States and the tools that they need to be productive citizens of the world. Should not our corporate and governmental leaders understand the languages and cultures of other Continued on page 5 r I f I.

r I f I. '> CONC011.DIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 5 The Transcript of President Hull's Inaugural Address Continued from page 4 people? Is it not time to substitute linguistic and cultural understanding for tongue-tied ineffectiveness and arrogance? Is it too much to engineers, students must be exposed to other peoples and lands-. Ami, to make sure that the expos1 1 -re to those peoples · and lands is not limited to a term abroad, we will will make to men and women of color and to internationalizing fully our programs will not be limited to rhetoric. Although we will contrnl our costs to that Union's doors remain open to all who are qualified, we recognize that our costs already appear to be beyond the reach of many. We also realize that, as a result of this perception, colleges like Union run the risk of being populated by the poor and the rich - and of leaving out the broadly defined ON THE WORLD ... kindergarten through 12th grade public schools or not-for-profit work on behalf of the environment or at-risk groups. CAUSE Awards will provide assistance to studetns who might otherwise feel that they were fmancially precluded from the benefits of a Union education. At the same time, CAUSE - by its very name and through the terms of the program - will seek to influence students to serve their communities, states, and nation. We do not want any opened its doors for study, \the end of study is to make one a good person and a useful citizen.\ We will do our share to continue to produce such men and women for this nation. A student who grraduates from college today or tomorrow who is unable to deal with people of different backgrounds, will have a very difficult time coping in our society and will be at a severe disadvantage with respect to the rest of the world. When he was a child, George Washington would write and rewrite rules of civility which he then practiced as an adult. Among them was to \labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire called cunscience.\ Union College, founded when George Washington was president, will keep the fire alive by providing the flint to ignite sparks of conscience in our graduates. Throughout its history Union College has served well both students and nation. As we begin to focus on our third century, we will continue to play our historic role, seek to make the college even more inclusive, and strive to form a more perfect Union in both an institutional sense and beyond. The members of the Union family could want no mroe, and the college's founders would expect no less! President Roger Hull aggressively pursue bringing to campus students from around the world who would benefit from a Union education and middle class. For this reason, we will make a commitment - a full and firm commitment - that any student who is admitted to Union and who wants to attend the college will be able to afford to do so. To underscore this commitment, we are today instituting a new form of assistance to students - the Chester Arthur Undergraduate Support of Excellence (CAUSE) Award - named after the former president and Union alumnus whose founding of the Civil Service Commission did much to encourage public service. CAUSE Awards wiJI be expect that, when our leaders sit down at the bargaining table with Chinese or Japanese, Iranians._ or Iraqis, Salvadorans or Soviets, they understand them and \speak their language?\ ON THE ROLE OF THE COLLEGE ••• Historically, those who have chosen to go abroad - be they from Union or from other Institutions - have been students who have been inclined to study languages or students of the liberal arts who recognize the benfits of foreign study. Given our special situation as a liberal arts and engineering college, we shave an additonal challenge to truly A college that tries to be all things to all people does service to very few, disservice to the vast majority. We will, instead, recognize that our proper role is to do only that which we can do well, and we will insure that we cooperate and coordinate with others and not simply duplicate or rep1icate their actions. show by being part of a symbiotic, multicultural flow, will benefit American students ON TERMS ABROAD •.. Is it not to substitute linguistic and cultural understanding for tongue-tied ineffec- tiveness and arrogance? Is it too much to expect that, when our leaders sit down at the bargaining table with Chinese or Japanese, Iranians or Iraqis, Salvadorans or Soviets, they understand them and \speak their language?\ \internationalize\ our students- and we will meet it. Whether political scientists or natural scientists, linguists or at the college. CAUSE Awards The commitment that we Any Upperclassmen presently on the Meal Plan who wishes to change to another plan for Winter Term should do so in the Dining Services Office by October 26, 1990. If you wish to drop the Meal Plan for- Winter Term, now is the time to do it. Those students who are not on a Meal Plan and wish to sign up for one, should do so in the Dining Services Office also by October 26, 1990. available to committed students who need them - with funds being available to far more individuals than is now the case. Since we recognize that families have to make sacrifices, we will join with them in making a sacrifice. Recipients of CAUSE Awards will receive funding in the form of cancellable loans during the time that they are in attendance at Union, with the understanding tbat ~the loans will be cancellable at the rate of twenty percent for each year after graduation that a student engages in public service- oriented activities such as Peace Corps or teaching in PickUp Student Directories in Office of Residence LifeCC405 qualified student to be denied a Union College education for financial reasons; we do want our students to recognize the joys of and need for being useful citizens. Why is Union College taking on an obligation that should more realistically be funded by Albany or Washington? Because we do not feel that we should wait for others to take action, and because we believe that one of the most important lessons that we can teach the young men and women at Union is to serve. As John Adams said at roughly the time that Union Spaghetti Dinner at Kosher Kitchen Tonight Thursday Night Please bring your meal card!! Oct. 18 6:00 P.M. · · · ·._Stay Alive With SADD (Swdents Against Driving Drunk) 1st Meeting · Wed. Oct. 24 CC 410 7:00 P~. All Welcome ! 1 ! WILLIAMS COLLEGE • MYSTIC SEAPORT MARITIME STUDIES PROGRAM Come find out how you can become a pa1t of iL Wednesday, October 24 7:00 pm, College Center Freshmen, Sophomores, and Juniors are welcom.e to attend this in[onnal discussion and slide show. For more information call us at (20J) 536-2326

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Try our Scrumptious NEW MAXWELL HOUSE. Chocolate and Regular We Know What You Like! Buy an IBM PS/2 before December 31 and you can really take off. The sky's the limit when you purchase an IBM Personal System /2~' before the end of the year.* You receive: • TWA\' Certificate good for a round-trip ticket for $149 off-peakand $249 peak season** • Free TWA Getaway\' Student Discount Card • S1)ecial om!ring on PRODIGY\' Use your TWA Certificate to travel to any TWA dP>stination in the eontinental U.S. or Puerto Hieo. Head for the beaches. Take ofl' for the slopes. Or vis it the fnlb Lack home. Saw~ on future trips, too. Apply for a free TWA Getaway Discount Card to receive a 10% discount on futu're TWA travel. TWA has waived the annual application fee. In between trips, tap into a wide world of infor- mation whenever you want with the PRODIGY service. For onlv $99 vou receive the PRODIGY Start-up Kit, a 2-t.OO,bps H~ycs\' Personal Modem, a software connection package and three months of serviee. So buy an IBM PS/2\' before December 31, 1990 ... Its the right timl' to get on board with a PS/2. Anywhere in the continental U.S. or Puerto Rico for on1y $149. -:.--:-:. ==. = ,, --- ----- ------ ----- ---·- • Thrs offer'\' avarlable only to quahhed slu<lcmts. 1'-ICUIIy stall and rnstrtutrons that purchase IBM SelecttJd Academe Solutrons throuqh pariiCipallnq campus toea !IOns I rom Auqust 1 lhrouqh December 31 tf)qQ Ontr>rs are ~ubtr.cilo avatlabrhly Pr~ws are subjeCt to chanr]e and IBM may wrlhdraw the oiler al any lrrne woll10ul wntten notice ·• Valrd for anv TWA deslrnatron rn the contrnental US or Pur>roo flrco for travel September to. t990.1hrouqh Ol!cernber 19. 1991. at the lollowmq round trrp arrl,ucs $149 DO round trrp tor travPtltom SeptemtJer 16 1990 lhrouqhJune 14 t'J91 and September 16 1991 tnroughDecemb€r 19 1991 $24900round trrplor travel June 15.1991 throuqhSeptemb€r 15 1991 Seats are hmrted Fare rs non relunddble 14 day advance purchase. blackout dates and ccrtarn other rcstrrcttons apply Complete di!tarls wrll bC shOwn on certof1Cale Applicants for the drs count card most be full llrne students br>twPr.n the arJes ol 16.26 • tBM Pet sana! Sysfem/2 and PS/2 are reqostered trademarks ot fntmnat1onat Bus1ncss MachrnC?s Corporatoon TWA rs a reqrstered servoce mark ot Trans World Arrhnes tnc TWA Getaway 15 a reqrstered trademark ol Trans World Arrtrncs Inc PRODoGY •s a rcgrstered servoce mark and traaemark of Prod•'lY ~nrvrces Company a part111•r<ohr~ of IBM and Sears Hayes·~ a regrSIPred trademark ol Hilyes Mocrocompulcr Products Inc • IBM Corporatron 1990

CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 7 FEATURES Letters From Home By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Yes, once again it's Sunday. I'm afraid to roll over, as not to disturb the yolk inside my skull and begin the inevitable hangover. But where else can you start? I try to think about the night before, but it's taken the form of a slide show with the slides out of order. After about fifteen minutes I realize no one else is awake yet. And I can't fall back to sleep. So I get up and reach for the aspirin, which day by day is becoming part of the routine. After a shower, which helps minimally, I look for something to wear. Doing my laundry was yesterday's accomplishment, so I'm grateful for my favorite pair of jeans, socks, and oxfords. It was kind of like being home, but not quite.. The bookbag is soon packed full of optimism, and I am off to Carnegie with my last 86 cents to be re-invested in a large Coke. Once there, however, I see the mesh gate pulled over the happy home of my beloved Coca Cola machine. This was truly a disheartening moment, as it was a long way to Mohawk, and you can't get a Coke there for 86 cents. Feeling eighty-sixed, I realized I had to do something. In somewhat of a daze, I drifted to my mailbox, fully knowing there is no mail delivery on Sundays, and that you can't get a soda there. Freeing the door, I saw that yes. there was something in there that I missed the last four times I checked - it was a letter from Grandma. Now a letter is always welcome and cherished, but from the likes of Grandma or Mum, they are usually a mixed blessing. Mixed because mail is good, but from them it's usually 50% moral, 50% advice. And here it was Sunday and I've missed church yet again. Woefully, I opened the letter, fully expecting to be hit over the head with the gospel, and a plethora of \should be doings.\ To my surprise, Grandma was offering no advice or morals. In fact, her bridge game was on a hot streak. As she relayed the familial info, I began walking, nowhere in particular, but generally looking pretty stupid, I'm sure. It wasn't until I found out that my cousin was pregnant that I realized I was in Mohawk, ordering a hero (not a sub). All this with 86 cents. Well, the family seemed to be doing well, which made me happy and hungry. So happy that I decided to write her back, telling her the depressing status of my thesis, and the lack of free speech. here at Union. And so hungry, that I started munching on a bag of Jumpin' Jack Doritoes, not understanding they were the only thing I could afford. I stuffed the letter into my bookb~g. and took a sip from the Coke I also had started in with. Finally the patron handed me the hero and said, \That it?\ I nodded, just about as happy as the cat who ate the mouse. Then he said \four eighty-two.\ $4.82. I kept smiling at him but said to myself \you mean eighty- six cents.\ Well, this was indeed an interesting Where Have You Gone Joe By JASON J. LAWIT In Tooth of Crime Sam Shepard warns us. \All the heroes dyin' like flies/ they say it's a sign of the times.\ Why is it all the heroes are having s11ch a hard time staying clean these days? In the past, a hero only needed to conform to several rules. He needed to be a he, wealthy, white, and preferably, but not exclusively, Anglo. If one had these qualities and performed an admirable deed in the eyes of their country, then hero status was nearly assured. In combination with the aforementioned charac- teristics, it often helped if you were racist and sexist. One need only look at some of the heroes from the first half of this century to realize this; Charles Lindbergh, Teddy Roosevelt, and Babe Ruth all adhered at least partially to this formula. Undoubtedly, a major part of the formula is the nearly omnipresent media. No longer is it possible to cover up · mishaps, scandals. or seductions. The media in its continuous role of Big Brother is constantly watching the people our D . . . ? 1.magg1o. society deems its superstars. What is it then, that elevates a media star to hero status? The traditional role of the hero has been a male who is able to hold onto an anachronistic code of honor. These romantic men were best described by Raymond Chandler. Dashiell Hammett, and other early detective novelists. These men walked tall down streets covered with slime in a constant drizzle that reeked of decay. They possessed inner fortitude and a code of honor that was not always in acccordance with the law. However, the myth of the novelist no longer is valid in contemporary society. Society is too multi- cultural and ethnic to embrace archaic white males as its heroes. Unfortunately, the multi- cultural society which demands a new type of hero is not receptive to any type other than its own. The latest person who, as Russell Baker notes. had the possibility to achieve hero status was Mayor Marion Berry. Berry, until his downfall, had been an inspiration to his people. He rose through the system to the command position of the nation's capitol. The main Three minutes a day is all we ask . .. point of this article is not whether he was entrapped by a racially biased federal organization, but rather why the drastic polarization of public opinion after his downfall. Much of the public was not willing to sympathize despite an apparent substance addiction. It seemed as if the public and the media was relieved this man was not as great as his shadow. America needs heroes. Today's youth needs people it can look up to and attempt to follow. If the media is to play such a large role in the development and the destruction of public figures, then they should be cognizant of the power they wield. The media should be allowed to dig into the lives of public figures, but they should also be fair and sympathetic if necessary. Media must become more responsible for their actions. They are no longer merely engaging in muckraking for yellow tabloids. Media is now nearly a biological determinant in an individual's personality. It is important we once again have people who are inspirational, not necessarily without flaw, but at least with humanity. ( UNITED WAY situation. \Just a second,\ I stalled as I looked into my bookbag, half seriously hoping there was a gun inside. Instead the envelope caught my eye. Crumpled as it was, I noticed there was something else inside. It was green. This was truly a great letter. Walking out the door, I decided to write Grandma right away, as I to()k a big hit from my Coca Cola Classic. +++++++++++++++++++ t ATTENTION . t t ALL UNION WOMEN! t + MIDTER1vi STUDY BREAK + + ICE CREA}Jf AND SNACKS + t THURSDAY OCTOBER 18 ! + 8-9 P111 + t IN OLD CHAPEL t + + + + + + + SPONSORED BY + t UNION PANHELLENIC t t COUNCIL t t r¢ts•D1T*L\~A·D.r t +++++++++++++++++++ The American Society of Naval Engineers 1452 Duke Street, Alexandria, Virginia 22314·3403 (703) 836-6727 SCHOLARSHIPS o>_o .~.· ..... ~~ ,.,..,_ E.nQI~~ Jounul Amount of Award: $2,000 per year, renewable Who Is Eligible: Candidate will be applying for support for either the last one or two years of a full-time or co-op undergraduate program or one year of graduate study leading to a designated engineering or physical science degree in an accredited college or university. A scholarship will not be awarded to a doctoral candidate or to a person already having an advanced degree. Candidate must be a United States citizen. Candidate must have demonstrated or expressed a genuine interest in a career in naval engineering. Selection criteria: Candidate's academic record, work history, professional promise and interest in Naval Engineering, extra-curricular activities, and recommendations of college faculty, employers, and other character references. Financial need may also be considered. Some of the Programs of Study which apply: Naval Architecture, Marine, Mechanical, Civil, Electrical, and Electronic Engineering, the Physical Sciences, as well as other programs leading to careers with both military and civilian organizations requiring these educational backgrounds. DEADLINE FOR APPLICATIONS AND BACK-UP MATERIAL: 15 February To obtain applications and further details, see your Dean of Engineering, Department Head, or financial aid office or write or call ASN E headquarters at the address above.

:Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 FEATURES 1990 Career Festival: A Huge Success By KAREN HURWITZ On Wednesday, October 10, from 12 noon-4 p.m., Union's Career Development Center (CDC) hosted the college's Twelfth Annual · Career Festival. \The purpose of the Career Festival is to expose students to the many options which are available to them in relation to their career development. We hope to increase students' awareness of these options by having them talk with the various representatives about internship and employment opportunities, graduate and professional school options, community service involvement, and about career fields in general. We hope that students will begin to gather this information beginning in their first year, so that they are more educated and, perhaps, more focused in their career decision,\ said Janet Harrington Mattis, Assistant Director of the CDC and Coordinator of tghe Festival. Under her direction the festival was a \winning combination for students, employers, and educators.\ Also instrumental in making tile festival a success was Recruiting Coordinator Lori Rodrigue. The entire staff at the CDC, the Career Assistants and the Student Assistants likewise helped in making the day run smoothly. _ In preparation for the festival, on Tuesday, October 9, at the CDC, Career Assitants Michelle Merer ('91) and Heidi Groener ('91) ran a workshop at 3:30 p.m., entitled \Getting the Most Out of the Career Festival\. Antoinette Aime C92) and Theresa Bett ('91) ran the same workshop again at 7 p.m. This brief and informative meeting gave those students who attended tips on what to expect at the festival and how to approach the representatives there. A list of all of the employers, graduate progams. and community service organizations was distributed as well as a list of questions students might want to ask of the representatives at the festival. Finally, the meeting stressed the importance of introducing yourself with a firm handshake, remembering the representative's first and last name, eye contact, and being careful about word choice. Students at the meetings even practiced these skills during a mock encounter with the person sitting next to them. This year 504 people registered at the festival on the sign-in sheets at the front of the fieldhouse. The CDC estimates tllat between 30 and SO other students attended which makes the approximate total of 550 students the biggest turnout ever. It was also the largst Career Festival that Union has hosted, with over 80 organizations present from a wide range of companies, graduate schools and community service programs. One of the biggest misconceptions about the Career Festival is that the CDC does not emphasize employers for liberal arts majors enough. This, however, is not true because the CDC does invite many employers for liberal arts majors, and the majority of them choose not to attend, some for financial reasons. This is quite opposite of the big technical companies that bave large budgets for recruiting at festivals like Union's. Liberal arts students need to recognize that by networking, or speaking with the representative from large companies, that they may find a division within a company that is very much responsive to liberal arts applicants. The students who attended the Career Festival had mostly positive feedback, as did the representatives there. Senior Wendy Kaplan who is a Psychology major said \It was an excellent opportunity to meet with representatives from companies and schools.\ Sharing her views, Robert Leung ('92) said, \It was much better tllan last year, witll more variety and many more reps.\ What's next for the CDC? The WCIDW AMI CPt-onounced \WickedWammy\- What Can I Do With A Major In ... ?) program will begin next montll, targeting liberal arts majors a:nd providing informative workshops for these students. The first will be held at the CDC on November 12 for Philosophy majors. The Career Development Center and the counselors there are available to help all students with resumes, summer job/internship searches, and concerns regarding career options. Drop-in hours are designated for quick questions and resume critiques and ate held on Mondays and Thursdays from 3-5 p.m., Tuesdays and Wednesdays from 11 a.m.-1 p .. m., and on Fridays from 1-3 p.m. TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS DID YOU KNOW: YOUR CALLING CARD CARRIER CHARGES YOU UP TO AN ADDITIONAL '$3.50 OVER THE COST OF THE TOLL CALL EACH TIME YOU M.AKEA CALLING CARD CALL? FOR INFORMAnON ON WAYS TO SAYE ON YOUR LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE BILL CONTACT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OF ACE AT 6411. Memory Improvement: Implications for Memory Theory All Union students and faculty are invited to attend this conference, which is free to the Union community. All talks will be in the College Center Auditorium. The conference participants should deliver talks accessible to a general audience. The talks by Hertel (Minerva Hour) and Ceci (7:45 PM Thursday) are particularly targeted to a general audience. Thursday, 10/18 9:00 ~ 9:15 9:15-9:20 Opening Comments Introduction M. Gruneberg (U. of Swansea) 4:00-4:40 7:45- 8:30 Attention Context I. Past Approaches 9:20- 10:00 II. Current 10:00 - 10:40 11:00- 11:40 1:00 - 1 :40 1:40- 2:20 2:20 - 3:00 3:20 - 4:00 History of Memory Improvement D. Herrmann (BLS) and Memory Theory A. Searleman (St. Lawrence U.) Approaches Psychopharmacology H, Weingartner (NIMH) Emotional State P. Hertel (Trinity U.) Me tam emory C. Hertzog (Georgia Tech.) Strategies M. Pressley (U. of Maryland) External Aids M. futons-Peterson (U. of Indiana) Social Interaction D. Best (Wake Fot·est U.) Friday, 10/1? 8:40 - 9:20 Practice III. Implications 9:20- 10:00 10:20 - 11:20 11:20 - 11:50 Implications for Memory Improvement Theory , Implications for Memory Theory General Discussion among conference participants and the audience about the issues raised during the conference. Please feel free to attend any of the talks that you find interesting. We look forward to seeing you at the conference. D. Plude (U. of Maryland) S.Ceci (Cornell U.) D. Payne (SUNY@ Binghamton) C. McEvoy (U. of South Florida) L. Hasher (Duke U.) R. Zacks (Michigan State)

COMPANY INFORMATION SESSION Wednesday, October 24, 1990 7:00pm- 9:00pm College Center, Room 409 l __..... __ , __ _ F- - '-+ tj 1- CONCORDlENSlS, October 18, 1990 Come and See a lh (I !LA lR ({!J lE ~ 7r 1P TJJ M lP JE JJ IN at the Rathskellar. H4JM~ glfCWIIfl. by JR t; l1J, • C k ll'i IE ti tJll!fl e!&perti.((flUy jDTI' tlk~ SKIE!LLAJR .. Page 9 -I _I_ l I

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 ENVIRONMENTAL Oh-oh Ozone By BRYAN PELLERIN There is a certain three atom molecule which has developed into a hot topic recently for scientists and environmentalists alike. It affects us daily, and from the air we breathe to sunshine we bask in, this elusive clump of atomic matter is becoming a force to be reckoned with. In case you haven't figured it out yet, the molecule is ozone, and the problems are numerous. Ozone plays two completely different roles in th earth's atmosphere. In the upper atmosphere, or stratosphere, ozone protects the plants, animals and humans on our planet from the harmful, even fatal, ultraviolet rays of the sun. Down below, in the bottom- most layer of the atmosphere (called the troposphere), ozone is formed by common pollutants to assume its harmful role as an irritant. These contrasting roles have given ozone worldwide attention, and surely will continue to do so in the years to come. Whether it is in the troposphere or the stratosphere, ozone is always the same molecule, being composed of three oxygen atoms. It is the location of the ozone which gives it its Dr. Jeckyl/Mr. Hyde charac- teristics. In the lower troposphere, ozone is responsible for endangering the well-being of humans, plants and animals. The molecule is formed when pollutants such as nitrogen oxides and hydrocarbons (which are continuously being spewed from petrol- burning engines), are baked by the solar radiation of the sun. The resulting ozone can cause respiratory and eye problems in humans, since it is a volatile molecule and may react with lung and eye tissue. This can often lead to dangerous breathing conditions for exercisers, asthma sufferers, and the elderly, especially in urban areas where more pollutants are available. The ozone in the stratosphere is just as hazardous, but since it is more than ten kilometers above the earth's surface it does not cause any of the problems found in the troposphere below. In this upper atmospheric layer, ozone is produced in a slow process by solar radiation to form a protective 'shell' around the earth. This shell does not allow harmful ultraviolet rays to penetrate, and thus prevents damage to the sensitive organisms below. But once again, human produced pollutants are reeking havoc with nature, and the protective, ozone layer is being depleted as chlorine and bromine compounds r~act with ozone to render it useless. This destructive process has created an \ozone hole\ in the layer over Antarctica. Studies have also shown increases in skin cancer rates in humans, especially melanoma, which can be fatal if not .diagnosed and treated immediately. Through our unending desire to pollute our planet's atmosphere, we have landed ourselves in quite a predicament. We have too much ozone where we don't need it, and not enough where we do need it. This is an all '·too familiar result of the ignorant use of energy over the past decades, and gives evidence of the consequences of such action. In order to curtail these problems in the future, care must be taken in developing and using new technologies, and the processes producing pollution must be modified to avoid more serious global problems. An Environmental Problem Close to Home By WENDY ABRAMSON and MARY BETH CHILDS Cleaning up our environment is a necessity; therefore, it is time the Union College community does their part. Non-recyclable plastic cups make up a large majority of the garbage on the campus. Not only do the cups litter the grounds, but since they are non-recyclable plastics, they create environ- mental hazards. It is possible to rid our campus of this problem by eliminating the use of these non-recyclable cups, and replacing them with nondisposable cups that could be issued to the whole college community. In order for this \clean up\ to occur, it would be essential for all organizations distributing the non-recyclable cups to cease any further usage, and for the entire campus to agree to only using the nondisposable cups. It is common knowledge that at many social gatherings on Union campus beverages are dispensed in the non-recyclable plastic cups. The halting of such distribution of plastic cups would allow those organizations to save approximately $30 to $50 weekly. Not only would it be beneficial to our natural environment, but if those organziations were in compliance, long term costs of the nonrecyclable cups would be saved. That money saved could be put toward other uses. Another benefit which would arise from the elimination of the nonrecyclable plastic cups is that attendance of outsiders would be more easily noticed for they would not have access to the issued nondisposable cups. This would be an efficient way to make sure no local youths or · undesirables attend any on \\btth Saving. Rain Forests: A Case· of Short- sighted Greed By BRYAN SHERBACOW The tropical rain forest, is today threatened with accelerating destruction, but if conserved could be one of humanity's greatest renewable resolltces. In 1989 it occupied nearly ten million squa:re kilometers of the continuously warm, high rainfall areas of the globe that lie between the tropics of Cancer and Capricorn. These .forests form a three- dim en sio nal carpet, approximately 40 meters thick of interwoven and interdependent individuals of several million species (both plants and animals) - more than are found in any other terrestrial ecosystem. It's preservation is important for many reasons, including the maintenance of this genetic diversity, but more importantly because it is irreplaceable. Apart from supplying raw materials such as timbers, fibers, resins, fruits, etc., the rain forest is functionally important. Considered as a solar engine, it absorbs more sunshine than any other living land cover, moderating surface temperatures and reducing heat reflection into the atmosphere. It uses this absorbed energy to combine atmospheric carbon dioxide gas with water to form sugars and starches, oils and fats; as a by -product of this formation of COlJlplex materials, it is the largest terrestrial producer of oxygen. The roots that anchor the forest to the ground stabilize soils, protect the landscape from wind and water erosion, desiccation and floods, and filter and purify water supplies. However, there is great cause for alarm at the rate of rain forest clearance. A study performed by the Tropical Forest Resources Assessment Project of the United Nations states a global figure for the area being cleared each year of 157,000 square kilometers. At this rate, a straight line projection gives a date 67 years ahead (2057) for the final demise of this irreplaceable sector of our planet. It is inconceivable that technology or engineering could replace the functions that the rain forest performs for us (without human input of energy, time, money or materials), let alone substitute for the campus gatherings or functions. Also apparent with the use of the non-recyclable cups is that they do not always make it to the garbage can. Usage of nondisposable cups would rid litter from being an environmental issue. The We Care About You Committee is researching and planning the distribution of nondisposable cups. it is materials that it manufactures. Already the loss of rain forest puts a strain on us when we have to repair a watershed, stabilize an eroding hillside, flood-control a river, or purify the atmosphere - all of which are becoming commonplace activities wherever natural, self-maintaining systems are locally overloaded. What is desperately needed is cooperative rational world action with the aim of ensuring that natural rain forest is safeguarded in perpetuity. A 1983 United Nations agreement created the International Tropical Timber Organization, which is regrettably limited to cooperation in research and development in three fields; on improving management and reforestation techniques; on a monitoring system to \make the market more responsive to the needs of users\; and on increasing domestic processing by producers. The goal over the years of this organization has been to secure an agreement on regulating trade, but the lack of concrete advances demonstrates the extreme disparity of position of the producers and the consumers. A new proposal which has received great consideration is the Organization of Timber-Exporting Countries (OTEC), the cartelization of the timber industry, which would be run along the same lines as OPEC. Requirements of an OTEC would include the commitments to: 1) reduce the exploitation of forest lands by means of legislation, 2) increase the price of forest products by means of taxes, 3) use the extra revenues thus created in agreed ways, and to pay a portion of these revenues into a common fund to aid members or exert pressure on those not meeting their agreements, 4) coordinate these actions in harmony with other members, 5) agree on a timetable for the above. Currently OTEC remains a proposal. The fact remains, however, that action must be taken. Unless coordinated action of this sort is undertaken, the tropical rain forests of the world are doomed. ~s individuals we can help by writing our state legislators and emphasizing the importance of this growing concern. essential that the committee has the cooperation and support of the entire college community. The only way to succeed in making our environment healthier is through working together. Union is fortunate to have a beautiful college campus. The least the college community could do is work to preserve it for the current, as well as future, generations.

CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 11 Worth Saving. Shop Environmentally By FRANZ LITZ Solid waste is a problem. That is not a new tevelation, but it cannot be said enough. It shoald be said tQ every shopper enterillg a supennarket. The decisions we make at the checkout counter have a direct impact on the rate in which the local landfill is filled. When examining the content of the average dump, one finds that packaging makes up a large share of all garbage. In September, 1986, a study released by the U.S. Environmetnal Protection Agency (EPA) showed that even after recycling some waste, Americans generated 133 million tons of garbage. That's 1,100 IJ()llnds per person every year. What's more, the amount has almost doubled since 1960. Americans are steadily throwing away more ami more. Another study found that packaging material- be it plastic or cardboard or paper - makes up one-third of all municipal waste. There are a number of possible ways to deal with our worsening solid waste problems. A number of plausible solutions have been and will be c11tlined on Tile Concordiensi~ Environmental Pages each week~ taken from publications and articles from our country's leading environmental groups and governmental agencies. Many conceivable answers involve our legislators, gov.emors and president. Others - and these certainly are of a more direct nature - involve individuals and how they can change their lifestyles to decrease waste. Since packaging makes up o11e-third of our waste, then it would be sensible to decrease tile amount of packaging in order to decrease the amount of waste. Cutting the supply at its source, before it enters the refuse stream, would be the most optimal remedy. But, how ca11 companieS like Proctor & Gamble be convi11ced not to put that extra unnecessary cardboard box around a stick deod()rant? Looking towards Europe, we find that a reduction in packaging has been encouraged through s9me daring legislation. For example, in the Federal Republic of Gennany, a law was passed giving the colls11mer the right to tear off any unnecessary packaging from a product and leave the superfluous waste in the stor~ before leaving. That places a great deal of pressure on manufacturers to minimize the amount of packaging used to \dress-up\ a product, since stores are not likely to stock overly })'ackaged items. While seemingly extreme to the American onlooker, such legislation has gone a long way towards avoiding waste problems, while in most cases actually reducing .production costs, since packaging can sometimes make up a great deal of the unit production cost. Decreasing the unit cost of production will decrease the unit cost to con.sumers - in theory at least. Mter all, consumers are paying for all of that pretty packaging before tossing it away. Aside from government interrention, basic economic theory tells us that a producer will not supply a product that is not in demand. That means if consumers refuse to buy a product which has nonessential packaging, a manufacturer would either modify the product to suit the ~consumer demand, which is to say, .stop over-packaging it, or be forced out of the market. Refusing to buy items that are environmentally unsound is a method used by environmental groups for some time now. Boycotts have gotten the atte:ntion of corp<Jrate bosses in the past, and they will continue to do so in the future. A general swing in public consciousness regarding nonessential packing would result in a swing in corporate behavior. That is where we come in. Think about it U! Do not blindly follow ad campaigns and brightly covered bo:xes. Remember, if Mennen can sell Speed Stick without a cardboard boJC around it, then Gillette can do the same with Right Guard. In. onr society, consumers need to make their concerns clear to manufacturers through decisions made at the checkout counter. We're tired of e:xcess packaging, and we are not going to buy it any mqre! ENVIRONMENTAL Governor Cuomo On Behalf of The 21st Century Environm~ental Bo<nd Act Continued :from page 1 Natural and Cultural Heritage *** $800 million for efforts to preserve open space and envi'ronmen,tally sensitive lands--the largest State heritage preservation initiative in New York's history. The State was able to preserv:e more than 30,000 acres of land under the fully committed 1972 and 1986 bond acts ... . . . Future preservation of large tracts of wilderness in the Adirondacks and Catskills, the implementation of the Hudson River Greenway, the protection of Long Island pine barrens, new access points on the Finger Lakes, the Great Lakes and the Mohawk and Hudson Rivers, acq11isition of working landscapes and new State Park and Historic Site projects depend on the funding authority contained in the 21 Century Environmental Bond Act ... *** $175 million for municipal park and historic preservation grants for the acquisition, development and enhanceme11t of municipal parks; for the restoration and rehabilitation of our significant historic properties; and for our statewide urban cultural parks program ... *** $100 million for the West Side esplanade, a project to provide millions of New York residents and visitors with a magnificent open space along the Hudson River 011 Manhattan's lower West Side. *** $201 million to refurbish State environmental and recreational facilities ... Solid Waste *** $175 million in matching grants to localities to close lealdng landfills ... *** $160 million in matching grants to communities for recycling activities, including $20 million in grants for innovative recycling demonstration programs. *** $140 million in matching grants to develop markets for secondary materials collected as a result of recycling programs. *** $40 million in grants to hospitals to modernize their medical waste disposal practices. The $525 million in solid waste manag-ement funds included in the 21st Century Environmental Quality Bond Act represents the largest commitment of state funds for local solid waste management grants anywhere in the country. State can't afford the Bond Act miss the point. Businesses and individuals, along with the jobs and taxes they generate, are attracted to New York precisely because of the state's longstanding commitment to our public infrastructure and quality of life. We really cannot afford not to pass the Bond Act this year. The State's economic PHOTO COURTESY OF ENVIRONMENTAL PLANNING LOBBY. It is essential to the environmental and economic well being of our State that we continue to develop environmentally sound and fiscally prudent solid waste management programs ... . . . We have adopted a goal in. New York of reducing our waste stream by 50% through waste reduction and recycling by 1997. (The Bond Act) will provide significant new resources for local governments to achieve this goal. Water Quality Improvements *** $162 million to capitalize the State's Water PollutionControl Revolving Loan Fund that I signed into law last year. The Fund can provide low-cost financing for comm11nities across New York to undertake required sewage treatment plant construction or modernization. *** $12 million for New York's contribution to the Great Lakes Protection fund, a joint undertaking of the Council of Great Lakes governors, for research and other activities to continue water quality improvements in the Great Lakes ... . .. Those who argue that the competitiveness depends on the continued investment in our public infrastructure. And the cost of the Bond Act, which would be spread over ten years, is a small amount to pay for the many environmental benefits it would provide ... Failure to make the continue environmental progress will leave future generations with a legacy of neglect and environmental degradation. Continued improvement of our State's environment requires current generation to make a commitment to the future. The benefits of that investment can help propel New York int-;> an enduring era of economic and environmental progress. Wh~n you act to preserve our lakes, our great virgin forests, our natural and cultural heritage, when you help transform wasteful practices into environmentally sound waste management practices, capable of sustaining society in the future, you are protecting generations that you will never know. And generations that will never know you. It is the' ultimate selfless act. An act the 21st Century Environmental Quality Bond Act can bring to realization. In keeping with our commitment to inform our readers of the most important environmental issues of the day, we offer these excerpts from an article which appeared in the Environmental Planning Lobby's Albany Report (Summer 1990). New York's Governor describes the importance of the 21st Century Environmental Quality Bond Act, which will be put up for approval by New York's voters on November 6. l/))fliJ - Over the last 600 million years, species have become extinct at the rate of one per year. Today, we are losing one species per day. -A single chlorine atom can split 100,000 ozone molecules over the course of a year. -U.S. industry produces 100 times the amount of hazardous waste P.er person than does the average European commumty. -Packaging materials make up 33% of all municipal waste.

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Clrilltfllrbirttsis -----Founded at Union College 1877--- CAUSE for Relief The inaugt1ration of President Hull last Sunday morning brought many surprises to those in attendance, but maybe more importantly, the inauguration brought many surprises to those who were not in attendance. The President's proposal to make Union College a more afforadable education opportunity is being met with widespread enthusiasm at a time when college costs are escalating uncontrollably. CAUSE awards, which will seek to provide funding for those in need, focus on the importance of involvement in public service~oriented activities. The awards will take the form of cancellable loans during the time the student is at Union, and will be cancelled upon the student's graduation provided the student engages in public service activities such as the Peace Corps or public school teaching. The idea is a novel one, and will serve to benefit everyone involved. For obvious reasons, the community will benefit from the influx of wholehearted participation. The College will benefit from graduating career-oriented, conscious- minded individuals. Lastly, the students who partake in th~ program will emerge as individuals aware and responsive to the need for community action. Without a doubt, this program will be scrutinized and maybe even imitated by colleges across the country. If in fact this is the case, the benefits to our communities will be outstanding. Places as far away as Tunisia and as close to home as Amsterdam will gain enormous benefits from public service workers. Who knows, maybe twenty years from now when everyone is living in the lap of luxury they'll look back at where the plan had its humble beginnings ... good ol' Union College, still an innovator in the twentieth century and looking ahead with promise to the twenty-first. Why Don't People Want to Live in Dorms The trustees and the administrators of Union College have decided to enforce the longstanding policy requiring students to live on campus so long as there are beds to fill. In the short tenn, this rule makes excellent financial sense for the College, which this year will lose some $370,000 due to unoccupied beds. In the long term, though, all rules must be grounded in reason, and while this policy should seem reasonable, there are also reasons why it may not be. There must be some fundamental reason why so many students choose to live off-campus when there is ample space for them in conveniently located dot1_!J.itories. The explanations, which are mostly speculative because they are difficult to prove, are: Firstly, that off-campus apartments are more comfortable than donn rooms. Secondly, that off- campus apartments are a far better value than dorm rooms. And thirdly, that many students feel resentful and perttaps cheated by a school that oftentimes seems that it is not doing its best to work out fair solutions to problems with the interests of its patrons in mind. The first advantage of living off-campus may be offset by the convenience factor afforded by dorms. The second off- campus advantage may be a little trickiser, for money ~s seldom as flexible as the spirits of the people to whom 1t belongs. Here, it behooves the school to keep College housing competitively priced. The third factor may be the trickiest of all. No one is going to be thrilled when it appears that a rymedy is being imposed while the most obvious solution is disregarded. There are 150 empty beds, but Gamma Phi Beta is looking for a house, and still no reasonable explanation has been given as to why the sorority has been shut out. The ultimate solution to all these problesm is for Union's enrollment to rebound to the levels it had attained just a few years back. It was not all that long ago that freshmen were looking for housing as sophomores were being turned away. If Union follows through with its plans for widespread renovation of the decaying donnitories, and along the way gives the student body some fair solutions, or at least fair explanations, then perhaps it will not be long into the fu~re when people will once again be lining up to cram mto Union's residence halls. LETTERS Get With The Spirit To the Editor: As a prospective considering Union College, I was warned that the college's greatest flaw is student apathy. I ignored this confession at the time, and have spent the past four years fighting the student apathy of which I was forewarned. I even had high hopes last spring that this apathy was finally coming to an end upon learning, while in Washing~on, of several incidents of student activism. I believed that students were finally saying \enough\ after having their opinion so incessantly ignored-- regarding the calendar, regarding the future of the Nott Memorial, and (if they didn't speak up) regarding the selection of Union's 17th president Homecoming 1990 shattered all my hopes. As chairperson of the parade committee and last year's Homecoming Weekend co-chair, I have strived continually to get more fraternities, sororities, dorms, clubs and other campus organizations to enter floats in the parade. Judging from this year's array of floats (which Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OplDIODS of the Editorial · Board. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • OplDIODS of the Editorial Board few saw since the parade was rained out), one would never gues.s that the float competition had received any publicity. Thank you, KA and A.L.A.S., for your float entries. Your continued involvement in the Homecoming parade is greatly appreciated. Thank you, as we:U, to those organizations that submitted ·applications. I am slJI'e next year's committee would also appreciate it if you completed the floats they were counting on including in the parade. To the rest of the student body I can only express my anger and frustration. We already give you most of the supplies, a pizza party, and cash prizes. What mote do you want? We write to your club, fraternity, and sorority presidents, as well as your RA' s. Ignorance cannot possibly be an excuse. Is there really so little school spirit at Union? Why is it 11 uncool 11 to build a float? Have you ever seen some of the Homecoming floats at Union or at other high schools and colleges? Some of these floats reflect much careful planning and constructipn, and they are truly something to see. My high school used to construct spectacular .floats tht released balloons and/or doves, usually after the paper mache/flower-covered football player moved forward to score a touchdown. A little creativity and imagination, especially on a campus with so many engineering students, could result in incredible floats for Union's next Homecoming. WAKE UP, UNION!!! The apathy is becoming unbearable. Supplement your classes and the fraternity parties with involvement in at least one of the many extra-curricular activities Union has to offer. Become involved today, and you will not live to regret it. Contribute something to Union, and make this campus your own. Oh, and on the side, build a float next year. It's not very difficult and (horror of horrors) you may actually enjoy it. Tracey Pry luck Parade Chairperson 1990 Class of 1991

TEMPORARY SERVICES 137 State Street Schenectady, NY 12305 (518) 374-7796 Take this test. \ Looking for a job with great pay - and commissions? With flexible hours? Offering valuable training and business expenence? Interested in free use of a personal .computer? Are you a Soonomore or above? Full-time student? Computer familiar? Wi1h at least a 8 average? If all your answers are \yes\, you've made the grade! Mancower needs you as a COLLEGIATE REP to promote the sales of the IBM Personal System/2 on campus. For experience that pays, call today. (518) 374-7796 r·~ . I CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 To the Editors: We would like to express our enormous thanks to all the students and stude.nt organizations who supported Homecoming '90. In particular, special tbanks to the Student Hmnec()ming Committee who planned and staffed the entire weekend, and the organizations who sponsored the various weekend events. The spirit and cooperation of the weekend were felt by all. Uni()n College Department of Bioicgical Sciences The Biology Department and Biology Club Present The Drosophila Neurogenic Gene Pecanex: An update Projt!~sor of BifJlogy Union College Thur~day, October 18, 1990 4:40 P.M. S()cial Sciences Room 104 Refreshments 4:30 A Homecoming Success Thanks to dl of you, the schedule of events was extensive and' impressive, and everything ran smoothly. We appreciate y()ur time and efforts to make this a spectacular weekend and hope that you enjoyed yourselves as much as we did. We would like to take this opportunity to thank ALAS and KA f()r their efforts in preparing fleats for our Homecoming parade, which, unfortunately, was canceled due to rain. We appreciate the time To the Editor: This mollth has been proclaimed by Governor Cuomo a~_ \Head Injury Awareness Month\. You might not know that head injuries are one of the biggtest heal til. problems which we face, there being 100,000 such injuries ~ch year. Public awareness of the symptoms and consequences of such injuries is extremely important as many who are injured migltt go for years without understanding why they are having difficulties reading, spots appearing in their visio11, etc. M()st seriousfy, the-re might be the loss of self-esteem or worth because tb.e person is not 7be Macintosh LC and energy that was spent d()ing this. Also, a special note of thanks to T h e Concordiensis staff for their full cooperation and assistance in promoting this big fall weekend. We know that a great amount of time and energy went into the special Homecoming insert. The entire Alumni Office staff has enjoyed working with this year's Student Homecoming Committee, and all of our student volunteers. A Health Issue functioning at the level they were used to. The consequences of these and more major problems are devasting to the individual and the family. Recently I have seen coverage of Hospice and of people recovering from cancer. I have seen interviews of AIDS patients and their social problems. Let me tell you, the head-injured have all these problems except that many are not bleeding and so are considered to be without problems. Nevertheless they might become a financial burden on society or the problem worker. If you have hit your head and are aware of changes like ringing in your ears, trouble Page 13 LETTERS We are already looking forward to Homecoming '91. Sincerely, Colleen McAuliffe '91 Ellen Nichols '91 Tracey Pryluck '91 l\1ichele Lerner '91 Melissa Gruen '84 David Shinberg '88 Peg Layden '83 Joe Murphy '89 Paul Rieschick '74 Alison Brust Mary Ellen Houlihan Linnea Potter concentrating or carrying a task to completion, you might have incurred a head injury. For further information call the New Yerk State Head Injury Association at 459-7911 or Prof. Sowa in the Chemistry Department- 6340. Family members are also encouraged to contact this Albany office. Thank you for any help you might give us regarding this. For every thousand people you see, two are probably suffering from a head injury. A number of these individuals are handicapped and don't even know it. Most sincserly, John R. Sown Treasurer, COPHI and Pr()f. of Chemistry The Macintosh Classic VJe Macintosh Ilsi With Apple's introduction ofthree new Macintosh® computers, meeting the challenges of college life just got a whole lot easier. Because now, everybody can afford a Macintosh. 1he is our most affordable mode~ yet it comes with everything you need- including a hard disk drive. 1he \ lacihtosh LC combines color capabilities with affordabilitjl; And the is perfect for studen!S who need a computer with extra power and expandability. No matter which Macintosh you choose, you'll have a computer that lightens your work load without :\lacintosh llsi giving you another tough subject to learn. Evety Macintosh computer is easy to set up and even easier to master. And when you've learned one program, you're wea on your way to learning them alL That's because thousands of avail- able programs all work in the same, consistent manner. You can even share information with someone who uses a different type of computer -thanks to Apple's versatile SuperDrive~ which reads from and writes to Macintosh, MS-DOS, OS/2, and Apple® II floppy disks. See the new Macintosh computers for yourself, and find out how surviving college just got a whole lot easier. For further information visit the College Bookstore Center or call518-370-6188 Fax: 518-370-6260 The power to be your bese Cl1990 Apple Computer, Inc Apple, the Applelogo,anct MaCintosh are reglstere~ trademarks ol Apple Compyter,lnc.Sui>\rOrtV<lnnd \The power to be your best\ are trademerl<s of Apple Computer, Inc Classtc ts a registered trademark licensed to Apple computer. inc MS-DOS Is a regrstored trademark of. Microsoft Corporation. <lSJ2isn registered trademark oflnternallonai Business Machines Corporallon . .. ., ......, ___ ,

Page 14 CONCORDJENSIS, October 18, l!J90 TJJ n u (()) N rc (()) JLJLJE ({)j m lM Til ({)j :g; !I Keep your favorite beverage handy non- spillable - refillable! $1.35 t:Jeete~ ~attaw. if< e<tta-ee~ta~tt We Know What Yo;u Like! *~*****•~**•**~**~*·····~·····$*******·~··············· announces an e ancement tot ee oan. Available to college students, faculty and staff* Low interest rate Affordable payments Up to $8,000 per loan Quick approval ---~\' ------ ----- --- - -. __ .. - .-- ..... - ----·- __ ____.-.- Easy to apply N 0 appll 'catl'on f· ee \The lean offer t$ avaolable only to Qualified students. IIICLJity ·anc stall who pLJrchase IBM·PS/2'5 through partac:lplitlng campus outlets Appi~Unls must nave 8 . . CDmb1ned monomum annuai111CCIN! of 520.000 to be- e1og1Die ·• IBM and PS/2 are neg1stered trademarks ctlntern.ati<ORal BUSiness Mach1nes CorporatiOil ' IBM CorporatiOn 1990.

CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 15 INTERNATIONAL FEATURE,S You Say Good-Bye, I Say Hello By JILL PHILIPPS Packing your suitcases to go and live in another country is not the same thing as taking a term or vacation abroad. Talk about courage! Establishing yourself in a foreign place where you have few or no friends and family. All on your own like Alice in Wonderland. Every day would be adventurous, each experience enriching, every task challenging and rewarding-- and this wouldn't have to end in one month, but could last as long as you wanted. Imagine now the actual day of departure, just before boarding the plane. What kind of thoughts would be running through your mind? Possibly ones ressembling second doubts on the day of a wedding. \It's not like we'll never see ,each other again\ (yeah, when? Maybe next Christmas?). \Well let's not drag it on-- BYE\ (Adieu!). \Okay I love you, too.\ (then why am I leaving?) Voluntarily leaving one's country for an extensive part of one's life means learning: learning to adjust to a different culture (of course), learning the importance of attitude in life, learning about humanity, about gains and losses, and learning abQut yourself. This all squnds st> l).ig. I metfn,- don't we stumble across all these things living in our own country?\ Yes, but their view on life is probably not the same. (one pre-requisite for living and appreciating another culture is flexibility. In order to truly understand and be happy there, an open mind is an essential. Now, let's talk abm:t your attitude. You can't expect to miraculously change and become part of another culture without putting an effort into it. \Education is what makes us human, rather than humanoid.\ Without a good attitude, you may fmd yomself complaining a lot, and people may seem to rub you the wrong way. You must be tolerant of other people's differences in behavior. Patience 'IS a virture. A good attitude makes all the difference. Before going to live in another country, it would be most sensible to have a certain degree of knowledge and or experience of that place. After all, education is what makes us human rather than humanoid. If the country is one which speaks another language, it would be extremely helpful to know the languge for obvious reasons. It should be challenging enough learning the idiomatic expressions, slang terms, subtleties of the ·language, and trying to recapture the spontaneous ease of a native speaker, without starting from scratch. The nostalgic feelings experienced depend, as almost This Week in the World The So\iet island of Sakhalin has been transformed into a world sepa· rated by more than miles from the rest of tbe nation. A transplanted economist has begun making the is- land a laboratory for Western eco- nomics. A U.S. proposal to eut farm subsidies will be presented at trade talks in Geneva. Washington is trying to find a compromise with the European Community over the issue, which has stalled progress in the talks. High court in Pakistan upholds dismissal of Bhutto Hindu leader presses campaign against a Muslim shrine Lake Ranco Journal: Can salmon cause pollution? Christian Democrats declslvew-wun elections for state legislatures in what used to be East Germany. The vote. tbe first since the two Germa- nrs reunited on Oct. 3, is a resounding VIctory for Chancellor Helmut Kohl. Mosque in Jerusalem last week. The~ Government said it would not cooper- ate with the investigation. A new book by a former K.G.B. agent says that Harry L. Hopkins, an archi- tect of President Roosevelt's New Deal, was an unwitting agent for Mos- · cow and that the Rosenbergs were \tiedicated courageous\ spies. GERMANY The New York Times Israel denounced tile U.N. resolution Christian Democrats led the vot- to send a delegation to investigate the ing in in four of the five new states deaths of 21 Palestinians at Al Aksa in eastern Germany. If you had a cultural experience over the sul1llller or if you just had a great time visiting overseas, tell Corcordiensis about it for our \International Experience\ issue. everything, on the individual. For some, feelings of homesickness gradually get better, yet for others they worsen. I don't think one can expect to replace one's friends or family with new ones. It is at this level that the person gets a sense for the gains and losses in life. In fact, the experiences of living in a foreign country may not be all that different from those of growing up in .general. It is similar to the shift of focus and appreciation which comes with age. For human growth, it is important to approach one's weaknesses, needs and fears. It is also ideal to have diversity in the types of friends we make so to better understand people. Living in another country would certainly allow this. Although establihing friendships in a foreign place can prove to take longer, you will probably discover that The experience of living in a foreign country may not be all that different from growing up. people are people all over the world. Regardless of the differences in culture and appearance, there are so many commonalities in human nature: happiness, desire fear ... I must also be careful in talking about nationalistic feelings involved with migraton because it, too, has much to do with the individual. While some people can say that they feel almost like a native American after having lived here for a long time, others say that their heart rests in their home country as it always will. This feeling that goes with living and being comfortable in a foreign country, yet not being able to say that you are \nationally a part\ of it is complicated. There are both positive and negative sides to it. At times, you may feel you don't \belong\ (nationally) anywhere, neither in the new land nor the native. Also, you may feel a sense of discomfort in going home to visit because of a certain loss of continuity. You may fmd that a connection to your own culture and language has weakened. Upon return, the changes (political/social/familial ... ) that took place while you were away are strongly felt and seen. On the other hand, you may feel privileged to be part of two cuitures, feeling somewhat like ***HELP NEEDED*** HOSTS AND HOSTESSES for MULTICULTURAL WEEKEND OCTOBER 25 - 27 Approximately 150 high school seniors from across the state and areas in Massachusetts are expected to visit Union during the Firth Annual Multicultural Weekend. This event is jointly sponsored by the Admissions Office, the Academic Opport11nity Program and the Dean of Students Office and is designed to give prospective students an opportunity to see and experience the Campus. The hope, of course, is that Union will be their future college choice . To accomplish this goal, we need you. If you are interested and can host one or two students overnight or would like additional info, please call Janet McQuade today at Ext. 6115. Language Table Schedule Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 12:30-1:30 - FRENCH - CHINESE • SPANISH JAPANESE -GERMAN -RUSSIAN Our meeting place has changed to CC 302 (Coffee-House Room!) starting Wednesday, October 24. (If you are on the meal plan-anyone. including Freshmen-you can get your food at the Upperclass Dining Room and bring it to CC 302. If you are buying, carry yo11£' food up from Dutch Hollow.) a \world citizen\. Taking on new traditions and putting aside old ones can be difficult to get used to. However, in the process you learn to be critical about your own past and culture. You would be able to decide what to preserve and whai to eliminate from it. Looking at your own culture from another angle forces you to ask Questions that would seem absurd to the point of reference of your natives. To look at your native culture through the eyes of an outsider is not always painful-- it can make life more exciting. Quite a few Union faculty members have come from other countries, and some have had experiences similar to these mentioned. Prof. Kellenter (Germany), Prof. Chen (China), Prof. Vinick (Argentina), and Prof. Milarno (Spain) are just a few of the faculty at Union who have had such credible experiences. Their initial reasons for coming to the United States are diverse, ranging from political reasons to job opportunities or for romantic causes. Their stories are real, and interesting. If you have ever thought of moving to another country, why not hear what those who have done it have to say. French Club Meeting TODAY! 7:30 P.M. 118 Humanities General Interest Meeting All Welcome! Good News/ Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 01 0) All are welcome to attend. Schedule: Mondays, Wednesdays & Fridays: French 1:30 p.m. Gennan 3:00 p.m. Spanish 4:00 p.m. Tuesdays & Thursdays: Hebrew 1:30 p.m. Chinese 2:00 p.m. Japanese 3:00 p.m. Russian 4:00 p.m. News programs are also transmiued from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borrow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X6216. Language Lab Hours: Monday-Friday· 8:30 a.m.-4:30 p.m. Sunday-Thursday -7:00 p.m.-9:00

Page 16 CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 ~@@@ @&~®~ ©©~V~®U w ilrfll ifP 11 @@Q • Create a logo to help celebrate the 20th anniversary of co- education at Union and win $100. • Your design will be used on posters, letterhead, and T- shirts. • It should reflect the theme of 20 years of co-education/women at Union. Submission Deadline: Nov. 1 Application form & fact sheet available in Rm. 106, Social Science Bldg. Sponsored by the Women's Commission. PLMSE ROCK THE BOA \I'. And after our Party Cruise, you can windsurf, parasail, or dive. Raise a racquet. Orjom a friend or three for tee. . . . . B E R M u . D ·.;\ . ' -~:.~ ON BREAKING WITH CIVILITY. B.I'.RBECUES, BANDS AND LUNC:H UNDER THE SUN. All compliments ofthe Bermuda Department of Tourism. Pink sand and turquoise water compliments of nature. :X. BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS March 3 e 31 $379 Tickets For: ANYTHING GOES Proctor's Theatre Nov. 15 Sponsored by the JSO For Tickets Contact: Beth x4028 WE ONLY Rl!NT CONVERTIBLI!8. They're the perfect way to party hop. Just remember, the left side is . .... ~ the right side. Cost $18.00 Deadline: Oct. 31 Galen and the Seven Vales: Creating a Medical Biography by Vivian Nutton Wellcome Institute London on October 24, 1990 at 4:30P.M. in the College Center Auditorium sponsored by the Departments of Classics History Philosophy & The General Education Board Reception immediately followfng in the Humanities Lounge All colloquia are open to the public

CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 17 ¥ ,. . . F. . - .._,. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT .... ... Heavier Th,an Metal By TOO SWARTZ After victoriously defending our right to freedom of speech, Judas Priest has returned to defend the metal faith. With a new drummer, Scott Travis, and a new producer, Chris Tsangearides, Judas Priest's brand new album returns to their classic sounds of Stained Class and Sin After Sin, except their new album, Painkiller, is even heavier. This is the band's 14th album, and perhaps their best. The album is nothing less than brilliant, and has a sound that only a band with the talent of Priest could produce. The first single and title track~ \Painkiller\, is a riff- crunchy tnne with double bass, that is faster than a bullet, enhancing the terrifying screams of Rob Halford who shows that his 5-1/2 octave range makes him the premiere and ultimate heavy metal vocalist. \All Guns Blazing\ and \Metal Meltdown\ are two songs like \Painkiller\ that are heavy and fast enough to be \' considered thrash, yet have the class and sophistication not found in most thrash bands. \Nightcrawler\ shows the more moody and complex writing of Priest that is only imitated, and never bettered by the new wave of heavy metal. The song has an eerie guitar intro, which then explodes into an all-out metal assault, similar to Defender of the Faith's. \The Sentinal\. This album is flawless. Songs such as \Between the Hammer and the Anvil\ and \Leather Rebel\ and the Zepplinesque \Touch of Evil\ will win the band new fans while long-time Priest fans wi11 proudly say the beast of Judas Priest is back! And, it is true, after the last two albums, being too commercial for most Priest fans' tastes, \Painkiller\ will rid any ideas of commerciality and selling out, and show that Judas Priest are the true Defenders of the Faith. You don't need to bang yollf head to this album, the music does it for you. Solution to \Beatie Mania\ --~~~-- --~~~~ ABAS A DAM YO KO ADUL EVI ERIN D A Y R E A R- N D E E R E s Don 't Leon VQUr rnn11th rincoriii j i 1\. vp 1 1 lllVUl.ll ~IV-tvu;; •• We Volant to hear from \Ufl at the 6th Annual PIJBLIC SPEAKING COMPETITION Thusday November 8th 8:30p.m. CASH PRIZES!!!! TO ENTER CALL: 386-4076 or 386-4079 A s A Review of \Beyond_ Therapy\ By NED WALLY This past weekend, Mountebanks' production of \Beyond Therapy\ captivated the Union crowd. Directed by senior Ed Vassolio, the play pushed alumni and undergraduates to the edges of their seats. It was a perceptive analysis of the sociological subject matter of bisexuality and relationships. The humor and situational comedy transposed the crowd into a receptive audience. Simply, it's a story about a male divorce, Bruce (played by Neil Kannterman), who lives with his homosexual lover, Bob (played by Bill Rooney). Bruce puts a personal ad in the newspaper searching for a female lover. The play opens in a restaurant where Bruce is to · meet Prudence ( played by . Johanna Campbell), the woman who responded to the newspaper ad. Upon her entrance, Bruce admits his bisex\lality, claims he is sensitive, and surmounts his presence with the request for her to be the mother of his children. She, caught by surprise, is repulsed by such an obscure and awkward request The play continues in Scene Two in Dr. Stuart Framingham's (played by Tod VanVorris) office, where Prudence is getting her weekly counseling. Interestingly, they have had an affair consisting of two whole nights. The arrogant doctor describes his performance during these nights as \great\, but Prudence thought otherwise and lets him know this by referring to his premature habit. On this note, he claims that she is a frigid bitch and they remain in silence for the remainder of their session. Bruce meets with his therapist as well, Dr. Charolett Wallace (played by Meg Parsons). The audience at this point found the relationships to be equally as strange and intriguing as Prudence's relationship. Dr. Wallace seems to be quite obsessed with her Snoopy doll (RUFF! RUFF! RUFF!) and is usually doing well to remember what her point is, much less the vocabulary she wishes to use. Some of the explicit language definitely kept the audience attentive and at the same time inquisitive as to the outcome of the play. After Prudence and Bruce have both discussed the failure of their date to their therapists, respectively, Bruce changes his ad and Prudence unknowingly answers again-- riveting and jolting the audience into frenzy. They meet once again, and end up sleeping together, which later leads to an evening of confusion when Bob's unexpected presence and hostility catch them off guard. The last scenes have all the characters come together in the restaurant where Prudence and Bruce were to dine. Bob takes out a fake gun and shoots Dr. Framingham, Bruce, and Prudence, thus showing his disapproval of their relationship. The madness ends with Bob taking off with the head waiter in the restaurant, the two doctors leaving together, and Prudence, after an emotional breakdown, accepting Bruce's proposal of marriage. The performers were fantastic, the characters hilarious, and the \behind the scenes\ workers invisible, which all makes for a great show. All in all, \Beyond Therapy\ did a great job of showing the audience some of the many different human imperfections and the necessity of coming to the realization that we all must accept our problems and go on living. Congratulations! Are you tired of the same old choices-over-priced movies or television reruns? Proctors Theatre and the Student Activities Office Pow o.ffer you real entertainment.. .. at a huge discount! . If there are unsold tickets 48 hours before the performance, faCL 1 1ty can purchase the tickets. Call the Student Activities Office to get tickets for the following shows: Show Name Date Time Student Faculty Price Price Nylons 10/25 Bpm $7.50 $13.50 (A $18.00 value) Fantastiks 11/4 7pm $11.50 $21.00 (A $25.50 value) Anything Goes 11/15 8pm $12.50 $23.25 (A $28.00 value) Peter Pan 1/26 Bpm $12.50 $23.25 (A $28.00 value) Tulsa Ballet 2/24 8pm $9.25 $16.50 (A $23.00 value) Forbidden- Broadway 3/7 Bpm $7.50 $13.25 (A $18.00 value) Side by Side- by Sondheim 4/6 Bpm $7.25 $12.50 (A $18.00 value) For further information or to purchase your tickets, call the Student Activities Office at 370-6118 and enjoy the show! ~ IJil n© lk® If [.Q)© ©lk® 11 tA\[r®[Jl)fil @)[f@Qll[p) ®®~@$) ~ For more information see Mrs. Marra in Room CC 408. Reserve the Van! Make it a floor event. Get a group of friends together and go have fun! ·· CROSSGAtls~·~2-~.- :- CROSSGATES MA(L{.:; \. .\.456:5678' ·•.~- : ·~· ~ •• - •• ' • • • -:o. ' GHOST PG13 12:-40-3:25-6:40-9.35 Dolby DESnlA1t HOURS R 12:35-3: 15-9o.W All 001 ~STallED r· Theatre PACIFIC HEIGHTS 5:30.7:40-9:50 (R) WITCHES & (PG) DESPERATE HOURS 1:45-9:55 (R) fANTASIA 4:30.7·9:30 (G) MR. DESTINY 5-7:10.9:40 (PG13) STATE OF GRACE 9\10 (R) DEATH WARRANT 5:15-1:30 (R) YOUNG GUMS II 5:30.1:45-9:50 (PG 13) ·~,e1ii!J,~q·• 370·1920 AL R . CHENECTADY POSTCARDS FROM THE EDGE S:tD-7:»9:30 (R) GHOST 4:45-1:10.9:40 (PG13) GOOD fELLAS 5-8 MARKEDFORDEATU S:41J.l:41HO FUNKY ABOUT lOVE 5:30-1:40-9:45 ROXIE CARMICOO 6-8-10 MEMPHIS BEllE 5:2D-l:30-9:55 . -·

Page 18 CONC,ORDJENSIS, October 18, 1990 ~· ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ HOROSCOPES Better Than Bran - WRUC Record Reviews By MADAMES \M. L. & C.\ LIBRA: Decisions ... Decisions ... You're being pulled from one to the other, weigh your options as your sign is the scale · and don't eat too much or you'll break it. SCORPIO: Don't freeze. SAGITTARIUS: Your ride will come. watch out for the girl next door. CAPRICORN: You are very unthoughtful if you hurt someone close to you, you will pay. Think before yon act. AQUARIUS: Perhaps you'll eat beans or take a bite of the big Apple. In either case don't get mugged. PISCES: Hope you're not \Beyond Therapy\. ARIES: Recycle! Be careful where you graze. TAURUS: Skip the bull ... Honesty will get you ... nowhere. GEMINI: You will find solace in Mexican art. make plans for the weekend. CANCER: Don't be crabby - they too will pass. LEO: Now that the hunt is over bring the catch back to your den. VIRGO: Your actions this weekend are deplorable. Be careful you might lose a friend. THE DANCER She frantically clings to her forlorn hope that is all that is left For a windy sleepless night holds no alleviations for her frustrations but only increases them as she is left alone; again. Morning light on the cushion Warm coffee, stale bread. Lucky people, eyes of light they've got it all, seemingly so. Boarding the train, the money slowly falls down the shaft and into its holder. She takes her seat next to an MIT student She's seen them before, felt their presence they always have a way of making her feel dull. Above ground the skaters are trashing about the Common trying 10 ldck the pigeons and squirrels hassling the drunks. She walks down Boylston By Alison Foster wishing it was Telegraph Ave. down near Fishennan's Wharf. California was always fun especially during the winter. Christmas trees made from artificial plants but it was alright, it was all that she knew. Nighttime under a blue sky the air is still, the trees motionless. She begins to pirouette for the moon leaping higher and higher on legs made for dancing. Familiar voices drift to her like rain through a window; some loud. others muddled and distant. Tears stream down her face as she begins to feel that dull throb in her leg which grows with every step until it becomes but a piercing scream. No longer afraid she fights the pain and dances, dances for the moon lUltil all that she can see are ~tars yet this is all that she has ever wanted. By RON EUGENIO Deelite- World Clique- (W amer Bros.) The sound of Deelite is the funniest of oxymorons; a dance band with substance. The latest in the \international psychedelic house\ craze, the band consists of a Russian (D.J. Drnitry), an English warbler (Lady Miss Kier), and a sampler from Japan (D J. Towa Towa). Decked in '70s polyester bell-bottoms, Deelite represent \three different cultures unifying in the age of communication\ according to the album's liner notes, drawn in a carefree cartoon style straight from De La Soul's Three Feet High and Rising. Although the message and its implications are heavy, Deelite seems to give more attention to its delivery. Their music-- more at home with a mass of sweaty bodies than with cereal during breakfast-- is eternally energetic and chock full of samples. From the first song, \Deelite's Theme Song\ the results are glorious. \Try Me On, I'm Very You\ has the band swinging with the horns, while the beat keeps the song in focus. The single \The Groove is in the Heart\ boasts a guest rap from Q-Tip from A Tribe Called Quest and reeks of a very good party. Lady Miss Kier's voice, though not quite in the caliber of Sinead O'Connor, more than holds its own against other singers in this genre, like Paula Abdul or Pebbles. But Deelite strikes deeper than the two aforementioned ''love-me-leave-me, what-went- wrong\ type of songs. Dee lite knows they're different, so they respond by staying light as air, Campus Movie IE. rE 7 ~ I!U ~ ce Fri., Sat., Sun. 8 & 10:30 Seating is limited to 117.' MUST Reserve Seat! CABARET Presents: N arada Artist ohn Do an and his enchanting Harp Guitar Live, in Concert Thurs., Oct. 18, 8:00 P.M .. In the Nott Memorial $2.00 Students & Faculty, $3.00 Non-Students for Reservations, call: Matthew Greene 370-6810 or Scott Hirni 370-6896 'w ignoring all the possible stereotypes. It's a joy of a movement. 10,000 Maniacs- Hope Chest- (Elektra) Subtitled The Fredonia Recordings of 1982- 1 9 8 3 , this album is a ...,. compilation of the Maniac's first two archaic recordings Human Conflict -#5 and Secrets of the I-Ching. Understandably unpolished when compared to lateralbums (it was entirely recorded at Fredonia, NY, in a college recording studio), this album also puts the band in a different light. With extra member John Lombardo, another guitar adds another layer to the Maniac's already dense sound. Lombardo (now kicking around upstate New York with the Hopheads) also wrote the music for nine of the band's 14 songs. The result is a very early version of the band, but more youthful, more intricate. The violin sound in \Tension .. hovers well, and the reggae influence, buried in later albums, stands out prominently here. But like the Maniacs of Today, the young Natalie Merchant is the center of attention. On \National Education Week\ she starts describing a classroom with its \corner standing flag\ then_ turns toward war, famine, and disease that kills children; the song ends \divide multiply sum 41,000\. The education is one of meaningless death. This comes from a woman who wrote this song at age 18. That is the most chilling fact of all. As it stands, if you listen to this and are interested, then pick up their flawless 1987 album, \In My Tribe\. If you love the band and just can't get enough of them, this will do nicely in tetween albums. The band sees this compilation as one reads a history book. Flip through it and learn sometime. EMPIRE CENTER COMING EVENTS STEVE ROSS: Fri Oct 26 ,, 8 pm \RIDIN' HIGH'' THE COLE PORTER CONCERT starring NYC's dazzling cabaret singer/pianist Swyer Theatre · MARY·CHAPINCARPENTER & BAND and RORY BLOCK Hart Theatre INTERNATIONAL STARS OF MAGIC 5 Award winning magicians under one roof! Hart Theatre \THE MIKADO\ (update<l to the 60's) New Lebanon Theater Earn's riotous comedy Swyer Theatre CLARK iERRY QUARTET Legendal)' i1lZZ virtuoso on trumpet & flugelhorn Hart Theatre ALAN SCHOENBERGEFI Sklls the Egg Zany clown wizardry and live skiing Hart Theatre ISO Dance Company (I'm So Optimistic) Madcap, playful and spontaneous! Hart Theatre RUTH BROWN & Balld \BLUES ON BROADWAY\ 1989 GRAMMY & TONY award winner Hart Theatre \A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS DREAM' NYC's acclaimed Willow Cabin Theatre returns to perform Shakespeare's magical comedy Swyer Theatre \A TRIBUTE TO IRVING BERLIN\ Sung in iour-part harmony, Barbershop style by the Capitaland Chorus. Hart Theatre ...... and there's more to come! Sat. Oct 27 Thur Nov 1 Fri Nov 2 Sat Nov 3 Sun Nov 4 Sun Nov 4 Tues Nov6 Wed Nov? Fri Nov 9 Sat Nov 10 Wed Nov 14 Thur Nov 15 Fri Nov 16 Sat Nov 17 Sat Nov 17 Sun Nov 18 For Tickets and Information 8pm 7:30pm Bpm 8 pm 3 pm 2pm 8 pm Bpm 8 pm Bpm 7:30pm 7:30pm Spm 2pm Bpm 2:30pm CALL THE EMPIRE CENTER BOX OFFICE at 473-1845 Write For Arts & Entertainment Call Des 377-9110 What if • • • You become a victim of your boyfriend's abuse. • • Are you part of domestic violence statistics? October is domestic violence awareness month.

STUDENT OFF CAMPUS JOBS Earn $20.()0 to $30.00 per hour - Campus Sales Rep. Call collect (518) 583- 1180 Wed. thru Sat. Stude-nt Job (Off Campus) - need occasional child care for 21 month old girl and 4 year old son. $4/hr. flexible schedule. Glenville area. Prefer own transportation, contact 399-2807. Part-time work making subs, clean up, etc. Excellent opportunity: for extra money. Various hours. For further information please contact 382- 1078 or 399-5829. Skyway Subs, Rt. 50 {near Freeman's BridgeRd.O Bryant & Stratton Business Institute 125 9 Central Avenue, Albany, NY 12205. Looking for Financial Aid Specialist, preferably accounting, financial aid interviews, processing all loan applications. Tell & Tap processing, petty cash refunds, collections, daily cash deposits, involved with College Work Study. Please send resume and cover letter to above address Attn: Louis De Angelis Student Off-Campus j()b Reliable, energetic student for child care for- a 9 month old boy, 15 hours per week, negotiable pay. Mon late PM, Tues. early PM, Thurs. late PM, Fri. PM. Location, Scotia, transportation needed. Please contact 372-1290. Stock Broker, Life Insurance Co. 146-146-A Clifton Park. Part-time clerical worker, filing, Xeroxing, telephone sales. Hrs. flexible. Please contact Tom Donovan at 371-1112. Need Student to Sit - Part-time flexible hours. Location Old Niskayuna, approx. 5 min. from Campus. Please contact Holly Hess at 377-6869. Graduate Student t() live in with elderly woman. Location near Ellis Hospital. Please contact Don Wexler 372-9990 or 785-1777. CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 19 :CAMPUS NEWS Student to work in doctor's office on Upper Union St. General office duties, light accounting and bookkeeping. Requires 10 hrs. per week between 8AM-4PM. $5./hr. Contact Wendy Atwell at 370-0623. Need someone to help elderly person <lo cleaning, garden work, miscellaneous. Location Upper Eastern Parkway. Please contact 374- 5384. Part-time or full-time employment. M. Solomon, Colonie Center, Wolf Road, Albany. Please contact 459- 9070 Meghan. Need sitter for 3 boys 14, 7, 11, also teacher' aide. Location Swaggertown Road, 15 min. from College. For further info please contact 399- 9544. VOLUNTEER Girl Scouts of the U.S • A. are looking for Assistant Troop Leaders and Volunteers for programs and special events. Contact Diana Fletcher at 374-3345. Mt. Pleasant Boys Club - Looking for volunteers to help supervise the game room or gym. Volunteers interested in leading sports games, arts and crafts activities and interested in tutoring. Contact Paul Ferencizi at 372-7040. CLUBS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Newman Sup.pers - There will be no Newman Club supper this Tuesday, October 23rd due to Union's academic recess. However, please start getting Halloween costumes ready for our visit to Glendale Nursing Horne on Wednesday, October 31st from 3-5 p.m. Folk Group - Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in St . This Week • John's church to rehearse. Tutoring - Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash ' Box 279, Tel: 386:4181. De Mello Program ~ 0 n Tuesday, October 23rd at St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are · welcome to attend an audio cassette program \Wake Up to · Life\ by .Anthony de Mello, · S .J ., author of many books on spirituality and until his untimely death in 1987 Director of the Sadhana Institute of Pastoral Counsel- ing near Poona, India. Sister Joan is the facilitator. Bible Study/Prayer Group- On Tuesday, October 23rd from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at · St. John's School Library . Sister Joan will facilitate a study of the Book of Exodus from the Old Testament. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS Free Spring Break Trips to Cancun and the Bahamas. Organize a small group and you travel free. Call 1-(800)- 344-83 60 for more information. Is your fraternity, sorority or club interested in earning $500 to $1 ,000 one- week, on-campus marketing project? You must be well- organized and hard working. Call Elizabeth U. at (800) 592- . 2121. Addressers Wanted Imme<iiately! No experience necessary, excellent pay! Work at home. Call Toll Free 1-800- 395-3283. Jeep For Sale. 1 987 Black Jeep Wrangler in excellent condition (specs) 6 cyl., brand new Tan soft top, semi-hard doors. Blaupunkt radio. Price negotiable. Contact Box #1707. Caribbean trip by National Science Foundation, 2-6 credits On October 29, 1990, the College Bookstore, College Center, will activate the returns of Fall Term textbooks to publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook purchases prior to Oct. 29, 1990. Gay, Lesbian & Bisexual Alliance lnfor'mational Meeting: Contact: Edgar Adrien • Box 1475 Box 74 All Welcome! Pictures for Yearbo.o:k will be taken Oct. 29th • Nov. 2 - Sign Room 410 College Center up for your appointment in Student Activities Office - Room 408. Ill the College Center THURSDAY, OCTOBER 18 Big Brotlters/Sisters Drop in Meeting Dramatic Reading of \La Ronde\ Cabaret presents: N arada Artist \John Doan\ -Seating is limited! ASUmeeting TUESDAY, OCTOBER 23 5:00-6:30 p.m. CC 203 Newman Supper 3:00-S:OOP.M. CC 203 5:00-7:()0 p.m. CC 203 8:00 p.m. Nott Memorial 8:30-9:30 p.m. CC203 FRIDAY, OCTOBER 19 8:30-Noon CCAUD 7:00-10:00 p.m. CCAUD SATURDAY, OCTOBER 20 2:00pm. DHR 7:30-9:30 p.m. CCAUD SUNDAY, OCTOBER 21 11 :00-noon CCAUD MONDAY, OCTOBER 22 7:00-8:00 p.m. CC 409 PEW C<mferenre Women's Studies Residency panel discussion· Half-time refreshments: cider, hotchocolate.and donuts ... Sponsored by the Social Committee. Women's Studies Residency Fihns Women's Studies Residency Closing SPAA meeting WEDNESDAY, 4:30-6:00 p.m. 7:00-7:30 p.m. 8:00p.m. OCTOBER 24 CCAUD CC410 CCAUD THURSDAY, OCTOBER 25 10:30-1:00 p.m. CCAUD 3:00-5:00 p.m. cc 203/204 COLLEGE CENTER NOTES: Guest Lecture: Vivian Mntton SADD meeting Movie: \Gone With the Wind\ The Minerva Hour Presents: Ziva N. Benderly \Ellis Island Restoration\ Big Brothers/Sisters Drop In Meeting The new Cabaret/Coffeehouse space in CC203 opened last week with Cabaret on Thursday night featuring student artists Josh Weinstein & Friends, Max Heini~g & Matt Steckler, Mike Moran, David Chao, David Lai, and Matt Greene. The Coffeehouse pr~miered on Friday night and featured local professional talent. Jane Rothfield of Atlantic • Bndge. The ~abaret/Coffeehouse is available for Union community events. The room features s~atmg f?r 65 people in an intimate atmosphere. Please stop by at our progranunmg meetmgs on Mondays at 3:45 in CC203 to arrange foi use of the space. Ple~se help the College Center Recycling Project get off the ground by bringing your depos1l bottles :md cans to our collection box near the Dutch Hollow tray return window All proceeds will go to Student Activity events and programming. .

. ' Page 20 CLASSIFIEDS from N.C. State U., 1-2 weeks in Dec., May or August. Call Prof. Kimberly (919) 737- 7831. Travel Fu~e!! Quality vacations to exotic destinations! The most affordable spring· break packages to Jamaica and Cancun. Fastest way to free travel and $$S. Call Sun Splash Tours. l-800-426-7710. PERSONALS Hey Bucllerand Nosa! How man:y more girls have beaten y<m up since homecoming? CONCORDJENSJS, October 18, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS 1-3-C. St.- Have a great weekend. I'll miss you. Stay calm and hang in there and keep me posted! Love you! Jane and Wendy - Think Cable! A. Love, Becky (Fig) Joel- Happy belated 20th - We '11 have to celebrate soon - Our house or yours? - Maybe both!!! I said velocity equals weight times mass! Bye Guys, What am I going to do with a 6 person apartment all by myself? I'll think of something! I'll miss you all! Love Gary Freshmen, Sophmore, and Junior Women, (Esp. SOP I and ACIO ll) Look for Garnet Minstrelles Auditions Coming 8th Week. Hey Jay! Happy 21st Birthday! No BioChem this weekend! (Ha! Ha!) Have a great birthday! Love, Lisa Mumbler, You're right, you are fine and you are all mine. You know who. D.Psi D- Prepare yourselves fora great Halloween party. Let's get busy. Me. Hey Hot Stuff, I just wanted to tell you how special you are to me, and that I Love U very much. Drew Attention - All Union Women Midterm study break - ice cream and snacks - Thursday, October 18. 8-9 p.m. in Old Chapel. October 22, 1990 -TWO YEARS!!! Lisa P, Max says he wants to live with me so that he will get the · respect he deserves. The Tough Guy P.S. Hands off my beer! I've killed for less, you lmow. To 700 South: Did you know PEOPLE want to be US? Teresita- Aqui esta tu personal. Tu es.tas la mejor amiga. Michi- Ahora! Nunca! Que es la diferencia. Abby, -L -L Do you want to study? Ot maybe we'll go and see \Stand and Deliver\? Love, Jason To Brother Death, Only when the chicken is ripe will the mango man reveal the secret path of righteousness which leads to the Isle of Swami and crystal granton sticks. Elvis Saves. -BJT Michi L- Todavia estas doliendo? -LJL l\t1M I Store security didn't catch Edith shoplifting the undergarment. but she was only too happy to give them the slip. Apparently, Reggie needlessly filled out his census form earlier that year. \We have time for one more horror story. Then it's lights out.\ Weekly Crossword \BEATLEMANIA\ By Gerry Frey The Minerva Hour ACROSS 1 Lawyers and basketball . ~layers assocs. 5 Eve's husband 9 John lennon's wile 13 Grown-up person 14 Strauss: Jean developer 15 The Emerald Island 16 Beatie hit 1S \Gimme a __ beer\ 19 Legions 1-=-+--+--+--- 20 Bruin's Bobby 21 Ogle 2Z American indian 23 \1_. -·-·· -- Your Hand\: Beatie hit 26 Material lor knit goods 2B Not cooked 2!1 Mod. day concem 31 Extravagant 34 Coli. entrance exam 37 \She You\: Beatie hit 3!1 __ a judicata 411 Small sporty car 42 One of the Stooges 43 Footpart 46 Encourage 47 Chi. Signal Officer 48 Kingdom 50 Age description of '60's Beatie lover: 3 wds 54 French friend 57 Ms. Gorme 58 La Ia preceder 59 \Are strong __ _ bands\: The Village Blacksmith 61 Mr. Best: Beatie's lirst drummer 62 Beatie hit 64 Hearing a Ids 65 \How many were there going to St. __ \ 66 Repairs 57 Robert _. __ : Civil War General 68 Enumerate 69 Poet's words 61 64 67 DOWN 1 Do it on __ : Challenge 2 \Can't ____ \: Dealles hit 3 Precedes \METER\: Height indicator 4 Tosses about 5 Rugged mountain 6 Train station 7 Deflect B Reflectors !I Beatie hit with 34 down 10 Type of window 11 Altered the check 12 A rare person 13 Jewish month 17 \That ___ there Is. There is no more\ 24 Gets closer 25 Sound track words 27 de France 29 Type of trea 30 Pigeon talk 32 Fido's Doc 33 River to the Rhone 36 Rat·a·_ 38 Pedro's \yes yas\ 41 Silent _ Coolidge 44 Opening of lhe nose 45 Word with codll or law 47 Pholographer's prop word 49 Take for granted 50 Perfect 51 Nitrate in England 52 Roman founlain 53 Overhangs 55 Emotions 56 Motels 57 Fencing word 60 i.atln road 63 East in Berlin 34 Follows 9 down ©1990 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved 10/90 35 Exist P.O. Box 9104, Scllenectady, N.Y. 12309 The Minerva Committee of Union College presents Paula Hertel Thursday, 11:30 a.m. Lectures are in the College Center Auditorium, Oct. 18. How can memory be improved~ particularly among depressed individuals, who are most prone to memory loss? Paula Hertel, professor of psychology at Trinity University in San Antonio, Texas, has devoted much of her career to the study of memory. She will speak on \Improving Memory and Mood Through Automatic and Controlled Processes of the Mind.\ Her talk is part of a conference on memory hosted by the College's psychology department. All are welcome. Admission is free. For more information, call (518) 370-6508. . l ! .I

' I I .I CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 21 Men's Cross· Country Runs Into Torrential Rain By GREG BARRETT This past Saturday, the Men's Cross Country team competed against their rival RPI. What started off as a perfect day for running soon proved otherwise. The torrential rain of the night before had turned the course into a slippery, mud-covered nightmare. Very few runners remained on their feet, with several falling numerous times. The gun sounded and the Union harriers were off and running. The first loop threw mud and a treacherous bridge at the athletes, and spread out the pack. Twenty-nine minutes and 59 seconds later Greg Barrett was the first to cross the line for Union, capturing 11th place. Next for Union was Adam Reisman finishing in 31:40 which was to give him an 18th place finish. Ed \Rhino\ Rothenberg was two places behind in 20th with a time of 32:20. Rothenberg was coming off of an impressive seasonal best last week at the Union Invitational. In 25th place was Bob Lindyberg, 34:44, followed closely by Chris Ryan in 26th in 34:55. The team ran well after o<>mpleting their now infamous doubles. Although they lost, 15-41, their hard work will pay off in the next few weeks when they head to the Albany Invitational and the CTC's at VanCortland Park. With Union hosting States, and the NCAA Regional qualifier this year, the squad is looking towards a good placing among these ex..tremely competitive fields. Last week, the Dutchmen took 1Oth place in their invitational at Saratoga with 272 points. The competition was tough with both RIT and Cortland racking up impressive scores. Both of these teams are ranked in the top ten of the state. Bigger Isn't Always Better By JARED SELTER It was as if someone from above was pulling for Union this past weekend. A divine force seemed to want the Dutchmen to beat rivals Renssalaer Polytechnical Institute on Saturday, the 13th. All morning the rain fell from the heavens in a deluge rivaling the Great Flood of Biblical fame. But just as kickoff time approached at two o'clock, the sun broke through the clouds in time to see Union defeat RPI, 24-17. But even if it seemed as though it was as if the football squad was supported by a booster of enormous power and proportions,it was not the only team competing on Homecoming Weekend. Numerous other teams hosted opponents, numerous other athletes tried their hardest to do their Alma Mater well. Yet, none of these teams received the coverge or hype that the footbal team received. Are these other sports not worthy of school spirit? Do they not deserve the same press? Everyone has their memories of Homecoming Weekend during their college careers. People remember the big game, the parties, the dance, the parties, the fun, the parties, and everything else that is associated with such an extravaganza. But people seldom realize that the other athletes at the school also compete and also want recognition from someone else other than their parents, siblings, or romantic relations. Such is the case at Union where record crowds packed the stands and surrouding fields at tile football field. Other forums of competition were almost barren,. teams grueled while ahnost no one attended to lend their support. The men's soccer team played against RPI as well, defeating the Engineers at !tome. No one really cares about this game do they? Well, the soccer team cared, of course, but does anyone else? Does anyone know that the field hockey team played Williams College, the Purple Cows, to a 1-l tie, thus keeping their playoff hopes alive? Does anyone care? Does anyone know that Union has a field hockey team? These sports shouldn't be kept in the closet, they practice as hard and as often. They should receive the equal coverage that they deserve. Perhaps it's the football team's dominance in the league over the last few years that has given the squad its monopoly of the media. Perhaps it's the fact that football is so much more dramatic that gives it the limelight. Perhaps it's just .the fact that the players are JUSt really~ really big that ensures the team~s headlines in the sports section. In any case, all teams should share equal coverage throughout their respective season; even during Homecoming Weekend. H()mecoming is a time for · teams to showcase their talents and successes, even if the team isn\t football. SPORTS Field Hockey Team Eyes Future By JARED SELTER Look to the future for the 'Union Field Hockey team. The Dutchwomen will retain quite a few players from this year's squad. According to head coach Charlyn Robert, \Next year we have six potential seniors (this year's juniors) who are the heart and soul of this year's team.\ These players, including Rebecca Smackey, Patty Donaldson, and Jean Lopata, wiU carry the team because they have been part of Union's Field Hockey program for all their years at the college. Shoring up the future juniors willbe the crop of young talent embodied in sophomores Beth McDermott, Cory Logan, and freshmen Jackie Bennati, Tammy Wood, and Stephanie Fonatana. At the outset of the season the Dutchwomen had trouble co·nnecting on offense. The first half of the schedule only yielded nine goals for Union. Those goals were good enough to salvage a 3 win and 3 loss record, thus preserving the team's hopes for a spot in the state post- season tournament. The team, though not scoring as fruitfully as expected, is \better skill-wise\ than last year's squad according to Robert. The Dutchwomen are also \much better as a unit than player for player.\ This fact was evidenced when Union played William Smith, a school ranked fifth in the nation in field hockey, to a 1- 1 tie. This feat says much about the solidity of the squad and the depth of the players. \The best players are allowed to have a bad day,\ Robert said. With the lack of balls beyond the white goal line the Dutchwomen defense played with unexpected control and poise under pressure. \The defense and midfield held the team together,\ Robert said of his players during the scoring draught. The offense may have sputtered early with those nine goals but the defense only surrendered twelve to its opposition. The main reason behind this stalwart backfield is sophomore goalie McDermott. McDermott was a reserve goal tender on the junior varsity last season and had no idea that such a tum of events could occur. According to Robert, McDermott surprised both herself and her teammates with her superior play between the pipes this year. McDermott is the \saving grace\ of this year's team, Robert said. Juniors Donaldson and Lopata also made huge contributions to the team on defense, \holding the team together\ in the beginning of the season. The defense outside of the goal is so strong this year because for the last three years they have started. Midway through the year, however, the offense began to click. The turning point was an October tenth game agaisnt the Rensselaer Polytechnical Institute (RPI) Engineers at home. On that brisk fall day the sluice gates opened and goals were scored almost at will. Offensive forces co-captain Lynn Hyde and senior Kristen Neibergs began connecting and the rest of the team tok the due. Neibergs has been improving with every game, according to Robert, and is putting \shining stats\ on the board. Junior Mary Hayes also began to play well, showing her \great stickwork\ and \nose for the goal.\ Hayes is the \spark\ that put the team into high gear. Carolyn Hardy, the second of the captains, contributed significantly as well. The reason for the Dutchwomen's s1ow start can be attributed to the loss of three four-year varsity players to graduation last season. Jen Lyon, a star goal tender is being replaced by the able yet before untested McDermott, Monica Ziscik also a standout is replaced by Wendy Miller who, according to Robert, has a good knowledge of the game and is playing \as expected,\ but is young and mistakes do come. Also graduating last year was Ann Mulvaney. The team therefore had many spots to fill with some unexpeienced players. The team is beginning to gel and after its start holds two wins and two ties to offset the three losses. The Dutchwomen are \just starting to peak\ and are \giving (their) tougher opponents a run for their money.\ Case in point is the one-aU tie against William Smith. This from a team that is still growing according to Robert. The future holds great things for the Union field hockey squad. The six juniors that will remain on the team for the remainder of their eligibility at Union will bring both experience and talent to the field. This group of players were on or involved with the team two years ago when it went undefeated with thirteen wins. These players will be complemented by the youth and enthusiasm of players such as Wood who reminds her mentor of Hardy as a freshman. Also the presence of up and coming freshmen from junior varsity such. as Bennati, Mindy Kessler, and Kristen Bigos will bring their own style and desire to the team. And thoagh it would have been good to have a \few more wins,\ Robert is, \most definitely satisfied\ with the performance of her team this season. Double Duty Pays Off For Women's X-Country By Sports Staff This past Friday afternoon, the women's cross-country team took on all the teams in the area as they competed in the Capitol District meet at Saratoga. It was a perfect day for a race-sunny and hot (75F- Whew! !), a day not typically expected during this season. All of the women took advantage of the gt:eat running conditions finishing with impressive times. Meg (Ruff! Ruff! Ruff!) Parsons, continuing to show her strength finished first for the Union squad in 21:24. Following Parsons lead, Sandy Ansehnent came next with a time of 21:57. Lauren Karp, who continues to improve by leaps and bounds, came across the line with a new personal record of 22:01. Way to go Karp!! Finishing next for Union was Cyndi Hunter with an impressive time of 23: 17. Hunter has been showing consistent improvement during her first full season of X-C at Union. Clare (Mrs.) Megathlin ran a terrific race to finish with a time of 23:55. This time broke not on I y a personal goal of the Mrs., but was also a seasonal best time for her. Go Mrs.!! Rounding out this unstoppable group of women was Kristen Welch in a time of 24:22, always giving a strong effort. With two weeks of Double sessions behind them, the women arc now looking ahead to strong finishes in post- season. This Saturday sees the women competing in the Albany Invitational-close to home, easy to get to for spectators ... (hint! hint!) Good Luck ladies!!! WRITE FOR SPORTS CALL ANDY AT 381-4651 -·

Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS, OctQbift 18,. 1990 <llonrorbirnsis SPORTS 'English Dude' Leads Dutchmen Wagons On A Roll By FRIEDS After being sufficiently hazed by myself as well as themselves, the men's soccer team responded with two solid victories this past week, over Siena (2-1) and RPI (3-0). Sporting a re-vamped lineup, the Dutchmen came as close to 'total soccer' as they have been in years. Last Thursday, Union hosted the Siena Saints. Union moved captain Eric Reaman to midfield (from fullback), Danny \I want a ring-ding\ Wilmot from forward to fullback, and Keith \English Dude\ Ward into the starting eleven. The results were interesting. The defense was suddenly involved with the offense. Union looked good as they moved the pelota up the field, though they failed to score in the first half. Early in the second, Union suffered a brief mind spasm and allowed an early Siena goal. A Union defender was beaten in the penalty area and goalie Lee Popper had no chance on the ensuing shot. Ho_wever, the Dutchmen were not to be denied. Less than ten minutes later, Jem Sollinger hit a cross into the Saints' penalty area, and Jeff Mela and Adam Epstein took cracks at the goal, Epstein's effort scoring off a deflection from a Siena player (his third of the year). Union controlled the play from here, the only opposing chance coming late in the half when Popper came out to stop a partial break-away. Union counter-attacked off the save, as Don Hudson hit a long ball to Epstein, who took a blazing shot at goal. Keith Ward, who was inspired by the rain which· was falling on and off all day, knocked in the rebound for the game-winner. But there was more to co'lle. Speaking of rain, on Homecoming, these Dutchmen hosted the Engineers of RPI. Maintaining their 'new look' line-up, Union dominated their guests almost continually in the tremendous downpour on Garis Field. Ward again was stunning in midfield, later commenting that \it (the rain) reminds me a bit of home,\ and how he \wanted some chips.\ Traditionally, Union failed to score in the first half, but came alive in the second. Mark Olson, streaking down the right sideline, chipped a ball over the charging goalie's head to give the team the lead early in the half Ward acded his third goal of the season off a rebound minutes later. This goal proved to be tile back-breaker, as RPI played disheveled throughout the duration. Sparkling runs from the back were made by Hodson, Brian Desmarais, Wilmot, and Dave Chodosch. It should be added that Hodson played a brilliant defensive game as well. Late in the contest, Union decided they needed another goal, so coach Bob Magee looked down his bench and said, \Nosal go get 'em.\ Inserted into the line-up, . Nosal responded. He bit a beautiful thru-ball to Eric Cressman. who drilled borne the third Union goal. In the team whirlpool after the game, Nosal commented, \Soccer has been very, very good to me. I go in, do my job, and enjoy.\ W\.ise words from a man wbo prefers late night muncbies over breakfast. Now 3-4-1, Union heads on a tough four-game road trip, following yesterday's match with Rochester. Included on the trip are national powerhousees RIT, Williams, and Clarkson, not to mention various sightseeing excursions between games. Notes: Rob Kaulbach has switched to the Chuck Taylor model soccer boot. .. Dave Haas returned to the lineup this week and looked very nice in his uniform ... Paul Viviano says \Hi\ ... this week's Meister Brau Stud of the Week goes to Adam Epstein, for a blatent hack of the Siena goalie in front of the ref... Eric Cressman must weigh rn ore than the listed 145 pounds ... Union's next home game. is their last, against Manhattanville, October 30. Dutchmen Savor RPI Victory ... Contin11ed from page 24 came through again, as Mark Tullman took the kickoff back 35 yards to tl1e RPI 42. Union kept the ball on the ground, and the drive ended with Alex Felipe scoring on a 6 yard run over the right side. Again, the Union line was potent, as guard Jim McLaughlin and tackle Pat Varley drove the weary RPI line back to set up Felipe's score, which culminated with a spectacular flip into the end zone. Union now lead 24-17, and it was up to the defense to seal the victory as the third quarter ended Union's defense came through and forced RPI to punt in just four plays. Union regained possession and was moving the ball close to midfield, when Russ, on a 3rd and 8 scramble, was knocked out bounds, pulling his hamstring on the play. The injury has caused concern, as Russ commented, \I don't know whether I will be ready to play next game. Right now it is day to day.\ Coach Bagnoli also was wo.rried saying, \It is up to the tramers, and we won't know until the end of the week whether Russ will be healthy.\ Union's defense came up big again, forcing RPI to punt for a second straight series without a first down. With Brian Harris at quarterback, Union elected to run the ball, not wanting any turnovers. Union punted, but the defense capped off its absolutely brilliant fourth quarter, forcing RPl to punt again, and not allcwing the Engineers a first down all quarter. The Dutchmen then ran out the clock and preserved their hard fought 24-17 victory. Coach Bagnoli expressed satisfaction with the win, but expressed that he would like to see Union pass more. Said Bagnoli, \The passing game has been hindered a little by bad reads, miscommunication, and dropped balls, but we have the potential, and I would like to see us go to the air more often.\ Quarterback Russ agreed, \Whatever it takes to ' win, that's; what we'll do. Whether it requires more passing or running is fine with me.\ It will be interesting to see if Union is able to continue their success on the ground, or in the air, and whether Russ I will be healthy enough to play, :[ when Union hosts Coast Gl.lard Sunday at 1:30. ********* The Athletic Department is looking for Public Address Announcers for Men's and Women's Basketball Games Announcers will be paid for each game worked. You can work some or all of the season Begins November 26 Anyone interested contact GEORGE CUTTITA at. 370-6170 or come to Public Relations Dept. at 17 South Lane. ********* When Rugby Gods Are Smiling By DAVE AUSTIN and DAVE INCE This past Saturday, the. Union Rugby Football Club walked away victorious for the third straight\ week. It was Homecom'ng Weekend for our distinguished alumni, and RPI had it in their silly, engineering minds that Union was ill-prepared for them. They were proven wrong by enduring 80 minutes of . pain and humiliation in front of a dedicated and lively Union crowd, by a score of 32-0. The all-mighty rugby gods were greatly disturbed with the RPI attitude, hence, unleashing their typhoon-like rains and gale force winds to further drop the visitor's morale. The first try came within minutes of the opening kickoff as serum captain Matt Taylor seized the soaking-wet ball with his well- known stone hands from a powerfuH ten meter surge, and unrelentingly waddled into the try zone for the first of many points. The point-after attempt was thwarted by an abrupt gust of wind, but Union was not to be discouraged. The URFC kicking game was the. only form of points that the gods disallowed. The A-side serum continuously overwhelmed the Engineers. A spectator was heard saying, \RPI hasn't been past mid-court yet.\ Although this specatator has some things to learn about the game, their observation was quite accurate. During the first half, the Engineers infrequently crossed over into the Union half of the pitch much due to the bone- crushing pursuit of the pack. Slow-Train, Cheetah, Booboo, and Spring all assaulted the Engineers in a warlike, rugby fashion. Our Hooker (the rugby position) Rob Shafer played another god-like game, winning most serum-downs. Toby Overdorf rerouted his nasal pas sages after single- handedly demolishing two Engineers, preventing a try that would have broken the Union shut out. Following the injury, Toby was quoted as saying \I've always admired Gilbert's nose and finally decided to do something ab.out it.\ The next four tries were \unselfishly\ put in by serum half John \I should have scored all the tries\ May. His first was in a serum down at the RPI ,five- meter line as he grasped the ball, and much like Taylor, ,jf he were skinny, zipped into the try zone. The other three were very similar, showing May's ability to continually outsmart RPI. An example of the Union dominance was silo'Wn as Dave \The Terminator'\ Austin was heard saying \Are we playing their \A\ or \B\ tea11?\ The Union line started out faltering with the sa.tl1fated and sJ,ippery ball, but as the game progressed they ex.hibited talent and aggressiveness very similar to that of the serum. Captain Dan Gilbert, and ,Bueller played a solid and very determined game on the line. Fullback Eric Altman continually showed his true hands with the wet, elusive balL Linemen Peter Deboer, Dave Davenport, and rookie Ty Janny all ended their season emphatically, each adding four points. All should be commended on their remarkable play. At the conclusion of the game, the team's advisor Skip Aycox, commented, \That game was a pure example of rugby that this team spent a hard week training - for. Everyone sho11ld be proud of this accomplishm.ent.\ The \Killer B\ Team kept up to its reputation as a hard hitting and relentless tam. Mter realizing that RPI had no \B\ team, the Union Alumni team took on the cllallenge. The Alumni sho'Wed their experience and skill as they outscored the B's heavily, but the B's continued assailing \the old men\. Even Wilen victory was out of reach, the \B\ team continued commendable play right to tie end. The \Dave Stein Player of tbe ·Day\ for the B game goes out to Mike Alter who took on \Monster\ Meade, a scrummer well over twice his size. His fearless attitude towards tllis giant kept the score lower than it otheiWise would have been. The URFC ended its fall season, 3-2, eagerly looking forward to its Spring Rugby season. All intel'ested in playing next season are welcome to partaKe in this satisfying and enjoyable game. We would like to thank our social participant, Carl, for adding some zest to ()llf meager lives. Listen, to the Dutchmen Sports Network 89.7 FM WRUC

i l \ .I ' ! l CONCORDIENSIS, October 18, 1990 Page 23 SPORTS Goal:ie Lee ,Popper Records 2nd Shutout As Men's Soccer Wins 2 Straight ,By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Freshman goaltender Lee Popper recorded his second career shlltout as the men's varsity S<>ccer team won its second ccnsecutive game against a local rival, defeating RPI on Hcmecoming Sawrday, 3-0. For hi~ outstanding effort last week~ as well as his strong play since llis insertion in to the lineu.p, Popper has been selected as T b e Concordiensis Sports Athlete of theW eek. After starting the season with twe consecutive losses, head coach Bob Magee, who is in his 17th and final season here at Union, looked to shake things up as the team began a seven-game homestand. He made a bold move by inserting Popper between .the pipes; and from the results so far, it seems as if it was the correct thing ro do. In his first career start, Popper recorded a 1-0 shutout against Middlebury. His inspired teammates then Lee Popper followed up their victory with a 2-2 tie against a very strong Cortland team. After tough defeats to Albany St. and Vassar, Popper and Co. bounced back to beat Siena, 2- 1, and shut out RPI. Popper's record now Stands at 3-2-1. More impcrtant than his record, though, is his confidence and thatof his backs in his ability to take control of the backfield. Coach Magee believes that Popper has developed that confidence. \The team has total confidence in him now,\ Magee said. \They know that · he is back there and he can do the job. He takes the control very well, and the team knows he'll do it. He is an aggressive, strong goalie.\ Hopefully, Popper's confidence and fearsome competitiveness will continue to the end of the season as he leads the men's soccer team against some tough opponents. Good luck, and congratulations to Lee Popper, the Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week Exciting Homecoming For Union Crew By CBRISTYN HILLS Despite uncoeperative weather, tile Union Crew Team rowed to victory this past Homecomiltg Weekend. The victories were the strength of the program and the dedication of its members. The Head of the Mohawk Regatta began early Saturday morning with the christening of two of Union's boats. The \Spirit of '87\ and the \Lynn Wienbaurn '90\ received the traditional pouring of \sparklin cider\ on their bows as coach Tom MacClarence and his crews thanked alumni for their support. Following the christening, the novice teams took to the water for their first taste of competition. Despite the late start of practices this year, both the men and women rowed exceptionally well. The three- mile course was a challenge for the novice coxswains who negotiated the 180-degree tum with ease and success. As the day progressed, so did the rain. However, the inclement weather did not dampen the spirits of the varsity crews. Competing against other New York State College crews, Union's men and women rowed all three varsity boats into first places. This was th.e first time in Union's crew history that both the men and women have won their respective races at one regatta. Rowing together for the first time since graduation, several alumni participated in the First Annual Alumni Row, an event that MacClarence hopes to see become a tradition. The crew team will finish up its fall season in Saratoga, at the Head of the Fish Regatta, on October 27. CONCORDIENSIS SPORTS (Q)lUJ [E$1f ~ (0)00 (O)IF 1T IHJfE W lE lEUC . This year .. 4 different men and . @ women won the singles titles at the 4 Grand S1am Tennis events. Who are the 8 individuals? 'l1hvl 'll'flllD.If' ~ ... ll.IAJDll!IDYJHJir®arl3 JJ.lH{l!4\ One 'VVinn~r shall be chosen from all correct ~ntries. Submit entries to BOX 212 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after each issue of Concordiensis. • Last Weeks's AnsVY\9r: MIKE DITKA Last Week's Wfnnec ANDREW FALLIS Mouthing Off P'rognostication Pontiflcation By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor About this time last year, I made what I believed to be a bunch of brilliant predictions about the NHL season. Unfortunately, the 1989-90 season did not g<l exactly as I had professed it would. Don't get me wrong. My pre-season picks were not totally off base. First base seems about rigllt. I was right on a few fronts-- I had the Chicago Blackhawks winning the Norris division title and the Philadelphia Flyers missing the playoffs. Much to my clismay, I was wrong on most other fronts. The Flames didn't win the cup. Vancouver (and especailly Vladimir K.rutov) stunk, and Winnipeg won a lot more than 10 games in t.be division. Detroit didn't battle for the Norris title; i11stead they floundered in last. The Montreal Canadiens were not \a lock\ to win the Adams title as Boston and Buffalo battled for first, not sec()nd as I had said they would. The Islanders somehow managed to escape the cellar and make the playoffs, while my pre-season favorite, Pittsburgh, missed the playoffs. And most embarrassing of all (that's why I saved it for last), I somehow said that Hartford and Quebec would battle for tile last playoff spot in the Adams division. What was I thi11king? My deepest apologies to all Whalers fans. I have decided, therefore, to atone for last season's aberration. So, without further explanation, ami with great (and renewed) confidence, my predictions for tile 1990-91 National Hockey League season: In the Smythe Division, Calgary is unhappy about how their season ended last year. They are too angry and too good to let it happen again. The L.A. Kings' season ended on a bitter-sweet note last May. This year, the regular season will be sweet, but the playoffs will be bitter. Edmonton is ecstatic about last season's finish, but without Jarri Kurri, they will not repeat as Stanley Cup Champions. Winnipeg's battlecries at the end of the season will again be 'almost', 'next year', and 'why do we have to play in this division!' And, finally, all the Vancouver Canucks and their fans can do is cry. Chicago won the Norris division last year with emerging young players and an unhappy and (cornpared to his past years) ttn:productive Dennis Savard. They'll win this year with a llappy Chris Chelios, but then goaltending isn't good enough to take them· far into the playoffs. St. Louis is a great young team, and Scott Stevens will help immensely, even with his outrageous salary. Detroit should have been better than they were last year and they should also play better than they will this year. But they won't. Minnesota could surprise some people. By 'some people' I mean the few souls who actually go to North Stars games. And lastly, Toronto will show that last season was a fluke by proving that they really do stink. Buffalo was a close second in the Adams last year. This year, with Dale Hawerchuck, they'll win it. Boston is a great team, but they are getting tired of being swept in the Cup Finals. Tllis year, they won't be there to be swept. Last year's lock for the title, Montreal, will battle Hartford for third place, but unless Patrick Roy quits the team and goes to college, the Whalers will finish in their familiar confines, fourtll. The one question in Quebec is whether or not they are bad enough to win the honor of drafting the NHL's next Gretzky, Eric Lindros. They sure hope so. For the first time since 1939-40, the New York Rangers gave their long- suffering fans something to cheer about in the first home game this year when they raised a banner. Now the defending Patrick Division Champions are looking to defend their title and advance further in the playoffs. With the bet defense and top goaltending tandem in the league, they could be looking at another banner year. The Devils are looking for the same things, and they also just might do it. Pittsburgh will show the league how to score goals at will. However, they'll also show the league how to give up goals at an alanning rate. The Flyers are getting younger and better. The Caps are also getting younger, but without Scott Stevens, they won't get any better. Neither will the Islanders. And now for the playoffs: St. Louis will bow in a tight series to Calgary in the Campbell Conference finals, while in the Wales, the Rangers will squeeze out a tight victory over Buffalo. [This is strange and unintentional, but last year I had the same four teams advancing to the conference finals.] Take your pick between the Flames and tlte Rangers. But whoever wins, I hope most of my other picks hold up better than last year's unfortunate selections. I can't bear more embarrassment.

·\' The Field Hockey Team looks to keep on rolling. Details on page 21. Al'ex Felipe celebrates after ·putting, Union ahead of RPI 24· 1 7. Women's Soccer Struggling By RON BIRNBAUM This past week has been a struggle for the women's soccer club. It lost to Williams at home a week ago yesterday (2- 0) and again at Plattsburgh on Saturday (3-0). The overall record is now 5-7, now just under the seasonal goal of .500. The team entered the Williams game positively, though it was expected to be a formidable opponent. While the competition had a skilled forward line and good team speed, Union still gave a good game and played up to their skill level throughout. In the first half, after Williams had already scored once, Union was granted a penalty shot which could have tied the score. However, they didn't capitalize, and the 1-0 deficit remained. Towards the end of the second half, Williams scored again to establish the final score. So what went wrong? Basically, the few shots Union had did not hit the back of the net. According to sophomore sweeper Megan Howell, \Union had many opportunities. We were taking good shots and unfortunately none of them materialized.\ Midfielders did not get enough balls upfield, and the momentum turned when Union missed its penalty shot. Senior center forward Meghan Carlin said that Williams was able to make many 1-touch passes around Union, and their passing instead of dribbling allowed them to evade the Union defense. As a result, Williams outshot Union 23- 14. Th(' g:-tm~? :-~t Phtts~urgh was :t kickball g,lllt<:, .tnd not llluch skill was involved. Yet, the squad is not to blame, as the field was drenched from pouring rain. The ball had to be 1 or 2-touched and cleared immediately when received. Establishing any type of game flow throughout was impossible because of continued starting and stopping. Playing in a virtual lake, Plattsburgh got extremely lucky. Its players landed shots in front of the net, and any on- goal shots taken were virtual goals because of the difficulty of movement for senior keeper Kathleen Lawliss. Within the first two minu,tes, Plattsburgh striker Dana Romea scored a goal. Early in the second period, Romea scored again, and Plattsburgh put another in to end the game 3-0. While the opponent outshot Union on a 2-1 ratio, Union could have most probably defeated Plattsburgh under normal weather and field conditions. According to Howell, \It was a frustrating game overall because our team could not show any of the skill or ability it has.\ Head Coach Suzanne Zaloom agreed, stating that whoever got to the ball first without slipping and got shots off would score. For its upcoming games against Albany, RPI, and Oneonta this week, the team still looks to take at least 2 out of the 3 for the .500 goal. Against Albany, which Union has never beaten the players must play to potential. It will be easy for Albany to pinpoint Union's weaknesses, because Union's assistant coach of previo11s years is now Albany's assistant. Meghan Carlin adds, \We need to win our last 3. We're hoping to make the state tournament and have to win the next 3 games to even be consi dC'red. Albany is our nt'xt gam.: and we're all looking forward to beating them big ... \ Still, even if the season ends under .500, Union is now comparable to other schools in terms of soccer skill level. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS October 18, 1990 Dutchmen Outlast RPI 24-17; Host Coast Guard on Sa!urday By MICHAEL EZRA A capacity crowd of 4,800 packed a rain soaked Frank Bailey Field to watch New York State's oldest collegiate football rivalry as Union College took on annual homecoming rival RPI in the 88th meeting between the two teams. Although Union has d,ominated the series t.Jrroughout the years, RPI fans had plenty to be confident about, due to their team's undefeated record. The game proved to be close and exciting, with Union winning 24-17. Union won the coin toss and elected to kick off, which turned ont to be a good move, as Union special teams played exceptionally well throughout the game. RPI attempted to run the ball early ()n Union, with moderate success. RPI gained first downs on a sweep by fullback Kevin Knox, and a pass to tailback J.P. Peterson, but had no success with plays up the middle as Union tackles Mark DeLisio and Bryan Faria combined with nose guard Mike Grimes to take away RPI's inside :rushing attack. The drive ended with RPI's quarterback Tr()y White on the turf, courtesy oJ a Faria sack. The quarter continued in the same fashion, with neither team having offensive success, until late in the qnarter, when Union pinned RPI deep, causing them to punt and giving the Dutchmen good field position at RPI 's 46. Union's offensive line started to gel, and was able to advance the ball on the ground. Alex Felipe gained 20 yards on the drive, and combined with Brett Ru~s's 14 yard pa~.;s to Mark Callahan, put Union on the RPI 14. Kicker Greg Harrison then attempted a 31 yard field goal attempt. that fell wide right, ending Union's best drive, as well as the first quarter. Union contin11ed to dominate defensively in the second quarter, forcing RPI to punt once again. A 9 yard return by Vince Criamo IJUI Union on tlleir own 46. This time, the Union special teams play paid but Union had won the battle, dividends, as Union's field holding RPI to a field goal. position led them to their first Union was mentally ready in score of the game. the second half and came out Said Union coach AI rolling. Union showed their Bagnoli, \We try to work on two back offense, and special teams in practice. Telemaque and Felipe ran well, Som'etimes the results aren't bring Union to the RPI 5 yard what you expect, but against line. Coach Bagnoli said, \The RPI, the kicking and coverage two back offense is a necessity, were both excellent.\ as there aren't many backs who Union opened the drive with can carry 40 times a game. It Russ completing an 18 yard has worked well in the past, pass to Gene Ray. A Union and we will continue to do it.\ clipping penalty put Union in A Union clipping penalty a 2nd and 17 situation, but brought Union back 15 yards Russ was clutch, completing for a 3rd and goal on RPI's 21, passes to Aaron Root and and set up the most crucial Callahan. Three runs by Vlad play of the game. Under Telemaque allowed Union to pressure, Russ dumped a get into the end zone. The extra middle screen to running back point was good, and Union led · David Flynn, who took 7-0. This 9 play, 54 yard drive advantage of beautiful blocking sums up how well the Union to reach the end zone offensive line played. The pass untouched. Harrison hit the Lambert Poll DIVIIIon Ill 1. Hofstra (5) 2. Cortland St. (1) 3. Lycoming (1) 4. Ithaca 5. Ramapo 6. wash. & Jeff. 1. Plvmouth st. LUnlon 9. Dickinson 10. Froatburg St. blocking was superb, with Russ saying, \The offensive line played outstanding. I had time to throw, and the running game showed how effective they were.\ Union gained 25 straight rushing yards to finish the drive. Captain and tackle Anthony Priore said, \The line did what it had to do. We were shaky at the start, but the whole team pnlled together.\ Union's lead was short lived, as RPI drove down field from their own 23. On a 2nd and 1, Troy White avoided a heavy Union rush with a nice piece of scrambling and found J.P. Peterson open in the back of the end zone for a 25 yard touchdown pass. With 2:14left from his own 16, Russ tried to throw, but his pass was picked off by RPI's Keith Sheridan. RPI lined up 1st and goal on the Union 9, but had to settle for a field goal as the Union front five stopped RPI. RPI went to halftime leading 10-7, point after and Union was up 14-10. Union forced RPI to punt on the next drive, but Russ made one his few mistakes all game when Union's attempted flea flicker was picked off by RPI cornerback Don Hubert. The interception turned out to be as good as a punt, though, as Union once again held off RPI. forcing a punt. RPI punter Mike Macaulay dropped the snap, and Union's Rick Werdann tackled him on RPI's 30, giving the Dutchmen extraordinary field position. Union was able to advance to the RPI 6 yard line, but settled for a 24 yard field goal by Harrison to lead 17-10. RPI showed that they could come back though, and on the first play from scrimmage, White threw to Peterson. who somehow ripped the ball away from Werdann, who was in excellent position and seemed to have an interception, and sprinted the remaining 40 yards to the end zone for a 69 yard scoring play. On the day, Peterson accounted for all but 5 · of RPI's 121 total passing yards. The extra point was good, and RPI had tied the score at 17-17. Union was not ready to quit, though, and the special teams Continued on page 22

Vol. CXX, No. 5 UaS. ,Defe·nse Sp-ecialist T·o Speak At Union ' Sanford Gottlieb, senior prod11cer of \America's Defense Monitor,\ a television program that monitors the U.S. military, will give two talks at Union College. The talks are free to the public. On Wednesday, Oct. 31, at 8 p.m. in Memorial Chapel, Gottlieb will speak on \War in the Mideast: Inevitable or Preventable?\ The other talk, on Thursday, Nov. 1, at 4:30 p.m. in the College Center auditorium, will be on \The Scientists' · Role in Determining Arms Policy\ and will be sponsored by the Union's Sigma Xi chapter. As a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Felow at the College from Oct. 29 to Nov.. 2, Gottlieb will meet with faculty, students and people in the community to discuss such topics as \Is the Cold War Really Over?\ \The Influence of the Media on Government Policy,\ and \U.S. Military Intervention-- When Is It Justifiable?\ \America's Defense Monitor\ is produced by the Center for Defense Information, Washington, D.C. Gottlieb received a bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College in 1946 while in the U.S. Navy. He received a doctorate from the University of Paris in 1952. In 1976 Gotlieb was adjunct professor of arms control at the American University in Washington, D.C. Gottlieb has worked in Washington for SANE, New Directions, and United Campuses to Prevent Nuclear War, serving as executive director of all three. He has testified before congressional committees and the platform committees of the Democratic and Republican parties and has appeared in news media interviews throughout the Continued on page 2 Founded 1877 .Schenectady, Ne·w York Student Affairs Council Debates Middle States Report By SREEIHI~R SAMUDRALA On October l&th, twelve membeis of the Student Affairs Council ,met to discuss issues raised in the Middle States report. These dealt with the two issues of Fresllman life and residential housin~. Althougil the coun.dl agreed that the Hickok Pro~ram was a good idea, t:hey acknowledged that there was a lack of demand fe>r the program and expansi()n may not be feasible. The first topic discussed was the Hickok program. Freshman in this living learning program participate in ma11y group activities such as weekend outings and faculty-student lectures. In last year's freshman questionnaire, it was f()und that Hickok residents g() ()Ut less and stady more than freshmen living in other <:allege housing. The Middle State's self-study evaluatio11 discussed the possibility of expanding the program to twice its present size by utilizing Potter House as an extensio11 of this program. Although tile council ·agreed that the Hick()k IJrogram is a good idea, they acknowledged that there was a lack of demand for the Hickok program and expansion may not be feasible. In this year's freshman class, all of the students applying for the program were accepted, yet there still are twenty-five vacancies in the house. The council recommends developing a housing pamphlet so that more information about the Hickok program is :provided to next year's Freshman class as they choose their campus housing. The second topic the council addressed was the Middle States report recommendation that all college-owned housing (in- cluding Greek residences) be made co-ed11cational. At present, campus housing is 63% co-educational. The committee which wrote the report argues that complete coeducational housing would better simulate the real world environment. One committee mernller said, \By preparing men and women to learn and live together, they get along better.\ Also, the committee pointed out that complete co-edacational housing would provide more equity in the housing students choose. As of now. fraternities The last signs of Indian Summer? and sororities h.ave approxi- mately seven times the living space than that 9/bich is offered to students living in college housing. Dean Mamrnola said, \We don't expect Greek housing to go co-educational. However, they shouldn't be the means where prime residential housing is allocated when there couid be mea11s to provide more equitable housing.\ S.A.C. meml>er Brendan Clifford, presid~nt of the junior class, summed it up by saying, \It's not simply a housing issue here.\ The students agred that the Greek system should never be threatened. They also felt that total co-educational housing WO!IId limit the \The College :has never done anything to im ]):rove the social life her~ at Union and we should be grateful that the fraternities have assumed many of our responsibilies.•\ D~an Schadler housing choices available to students. The final topic discussed was freshman residential life. As with most college campuses, some people fee:l that there is a serious drinking problem here Continued on page 2 0 b ::c a. w -I u:: October 25, 1990 Student Forum Spot- light Due to the four day weekend, the Union College Student Forum had not met as this issue of Concordiensis was going to press. Information from Tuesday's meeting will be relayed to the student body in next week's issue. Due to scheduling conflicts resulting from the four day weekend, the Forum was forced to postpone elections for the three freshman representative positions, and the one sophomore and junior positions. Petitions were still due last Friday (October 19), but elections will now be held on Friday, November 2, instead of tomorrow. Statements for students who are running will be due on Tuesday, October 30 by 4:00 PM in the Concordiensis office. Photos will be taken tomorrow. Any questions may be directed to Jay Freeland, student forum president, at 386-4153. Issues which remain a concern to the Forum include the status of the Middle States report, particularly the Freshman Year and Residence Life section. The report continues to be discussed at Forum meetings as well as meetings of the S .A.C. Any students interested in attending Student Forum meetings are invited to attend. Meetings are held on Mondays at 5:30 PM in the College Center 4th floor. Look for the Student Forum \On the Road\ sometime within the next few weeks. In This Issue: Fall Break In Montreal -Page 6 Jazz Concert at Union .. page 12 Football Team Defeats Coast Guard -Page 16

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, Oct~ber 25, 1990 Residential Hot Topic For Life S.A.C. America's Defense To Be Subject Of Lectures Continued from page 1 at Union College. One student · in last year's freshman survey claimed that he was drunk . thirty-five times over one week. The committee which wrote the report claims that · total co-educational housing · would help offset the drinking problem. Dean Mammola . responded by saying, \WouLd there be less drinking if there was more or total co-education? That is not the point. The point is preparing students to go out in the modern world with a better attitude towards the sexes.\ However, the committee did agree that Union College is underfunded in the residential life activities offering only limited programs of on-campus movies, cabarets and the Minerva hours. Dean Schadler said, \The College has never done anything to improve the social life at Union and we should be grateful that the fraternities have assumed many of our responsibilities.\ Professor Roy Day added by saying, \Schenectady is dead and our residential life needs improvement. Because the residential life is weak, the fraternities are strong.\ The committee believes that this weakness is one of the causes of Union College's drinking problem. The council deci<led that it is necessary to re-energize the residential life programs at Union. Day said that the goal as a council is to get \'students to drink less and study more. II Although a wide range of issues- were discussed in the council meeting, Clifford and Drew Ward, among other student members of the S.A.C., said, \We would like to see less talk and more action on issues concerning the students. Continued from p.age 1 United States. He has served on the MX Missile Bashing Advisory Board of the U.S. Office of Technology Assessment. He is the author of the booklet, What Abo,ut the Russians?, and has contributed to Newsweek, The New York Times, Chicago Tribune, Newsday, Boston Globe, The Saturday Review, and other · · publications. His chapter on the mHita:i'y-industry complex appears in The Seventies: Olitnmrbtrnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Problems and Proposals (Harper & Row). For 17 years Gottlieb was a regular radio commentator on \In the Public Interest II Gottlieb will be on campus under the auspices . of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, Princeton, N.J. The foundation places leaders in business, public services. and other professions on campuses of small liberal arts colleges for a week of intensive dialog with faculty and students. Capitol Hill Gridlock Causes .. Serious By JIM POLITES Since winning the 198.8 Presidential Election by a landslide over Michael Dukakis, George Bush has enjoyed nearly two years of unabashed public support while carefully avoiding domestic strife that could damage his cohesive relationship with Congress. Unlike Ronald Reagan before him, the President has worked fluently with Capitol Hill on economic and social policy throughout his term in office and up until now, has received high praise from Democrats and Republicans alike for a low-key, considerate and compromising attitude. Unfortunately, the recent budget dilemma has illuminated an indecisiveness and unyielding desire to appease everyone that has effectively ground the proceedings to a halt. The slow-moving deliberaton of how to cut into the country's astronomical deficit, which has the government spending billions more than it collects in taxes and bond sales, is not only dividing Washington's political parties but making an acceptable plan clearly defining where Budget Problems government revenues should come from nearly impossible to agree on. Democrats have rallied around a bill highlighted by an · increase in income taxes from 28% to 33% for the country's top earnings bracket. The problem remains that Bush, for reasons that revolve around the conservative theory that more savings for the wealthy will trickle down to the less affluent classes, will quickly veto the proposal. The strength of the GOP in the 1980s was made possible through strong backing from Unfortunately, the recent. budget dilemma has illuminated an indecisiveness and unyielding to appease everyone. corporate America who in return for political support and funding were· awarded with larger profit incentives and such legislation as capital gains tax breaks, which siphon cash from money made in such ventures as personal stocks and real estate investment. The idea of indexing, a measure that would reorganize the nation's tax brackets and spread the burden of an income tax over a greater number of people, has also been discussed. Bush has taken a populist stance of refuting the measure and smartly appealing to the broad middle class, much of whom have lost faith in the overall job the chief executive is cUITently dong. Senate Republicans, meanwhile, have shunted aside a new income tax and focused on a 9.5 cent per gallon fuel levy that would bring some $43 billion over five years to government. House members have balked at this sqggestion, no doubt questioning the existing price escalation due to the Gulf Crisis, and the regressive nature of such an idea. Finally, cuts in social welfare programs like Medicare are being discussed and funding redllction in this sector seems likely. The victims here are the eldel'ly and those in need of medical attention. The fact remains, though, that if is much easier for the government to squeeze funds from a docile group than risk having to answer to the country's millionaires. ·;;; In a necessary move, last Friday, President Bush signed a STUDENT FORUM ELECTIONS * Elections have been postponed until Friday, November2 --Photos will be taken Friday, October 26 --Statements due Tuesday, October 30 by 4 PM in the Concord.iensis Office Any questions, call Jay Freeland at 386-4153 temporary stop gap bill to prevent a governmental shutdown, continue federal spending throughout the week- end, and give Congress additional time to hammer out a deal. Cuts in social welfare programs are being discussed .•• The fact remains that it is easier to squeeze funds from a docile group than the country's millionaires. In essence, this decision is a symbol to the public of Capitol Hill's discot:d and lack Qf preparation-- a picture that reflects poorly on both legislators and the President to carry out a fundamental task they inherit when taking office. The governmental budget discrepancy has exposed a number of key issues that have effectively cut into the once spotless image of George Bush as President It has seen his 1988 campaign pledge of \no new taxes\ fall benignly to the ground while damaging the chief executive's fine quality of being able to legislate with both parties of Congress, not just the Republicans. Most disturbing of all, the budget problem has brought to light a Jeckell and Hy(le personality in the President in which he thrives on international challenges yet is afraid to act decisively on domestic policy: an image that alienates him from Congress and weakens a popular appeal he worked so stringently to achieve. Reported Sec:urity ln\idents 10/14/90 SUNDAY REPORTED THEfT 10/14/90 SUNDAY BREAK IN REPORTED 10/14/90 SUNDAY TRESPASSERS UNWILLIN6 TO LEAVE AREA 10/15/90 I'IONDAY LOUNGE AREA WINDOW BROKEN 10/15/90 HONDAY REPORT or A MISSING TRUNK 10/15/90 I'IONDAY UNKNOWN PERSONS IN AREA 10/15/9(1 I'ION[JHY NON-STUDENTS IN BUILDING 10/15/90 HONDAY ROO: THROWN· THRU LOBBY WINDOW 10/1&/90 TUESD~Y MOTOR VEHICLE ACC:lDENT 10/16/90 TUESD4Y THEFT AND VANDALISM OF COLLEGE PROPERTY 10/17/80 WEDNESDAY STUDENT REPORTS VEHiCLE BROKEN INTO 11)/19/90 THRUSDAY POSSIBLE THEFT or COLLEGE PROPERTY 10/19/90 fRIDAY NON-STUDENTS IN BUILDING~ 10/20/90 SATURDAY ROGK THROWN THRU WINDOW WT YEAR 9,890 AMERICANS STOPPED DRINKING·AND DRIVI.NG. DON'T D.RniE DRUWK, OR ~IDE:WIIH ANYONE WHO DO~S. I' ..

I' !; CONCOllDJENSIS, October 25, 1990 Page 3 A Community Prayer Vigil for THE BioLoGY DEPARTMENT JUSTICE AND PEACE an.d Commemorating the th ANNJVERSARY of SECOND VATICAN C'OUNCIL'S Declaration on the Relationship of the Church to Non-Christian Religions -.-!'Nostra Aetate\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 28,. 1990 2:30 P.M CATHEDRAL OF THE IMlVIACULATE CONCEPTIO (Madison Avenue and Eagle Street. Albany, NY) Presiding - Bishop Howard J. Hubbard Panicipation by - CATHOLICS ... JEWS ... PROTEST'AN\TS ... ORTHODOX CHRISTIANS ... MOSLEMS ... BUDDHIS1S __ . HINDUS RECEf1TION IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING IN THE CATHEDRAL f'J -1.:t The public is warmly invited to be present jt: 'WJ ROMAN CATHOLIC DIOCESE of ALBANY, NEVV YORK V' Commission for Ecumenical and Interreligious ~flairs . Any Upperclassm~n presently on the Meal Plan who wish to change to another plan for Winter Term should do so in the Dining Services Office by October 26, 1990. If you . wish to drop the Meal Plan for Winter Term, now is the time to do it. Those students who are not on a Meal Plan and wish to sign up for one, should do so in the Dining Services Office also by October 26, 1990. BIOLOGY CLUB Present A BIOLOGIST'S VIEW OF PANAMA: ANIMALS, PLANTS, PEOPLE and POLITICS ILIE(Q) JFILJEII§IHIIWA~ Professor of Biology Union College 1'hursday, October 25, 1990 4:40 P.M. SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 104 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 announces an e · ancement tot e -s ee oan. AvaHable to college studen1s, faculty and staff* Low interest rate Affordable payments Up to $8,000 per loan Quick approval =~=~1 Easy to apply i.5.ffi. N I . t\ 0 n fee 'Ttl~ loa.,e>ller IS avatlatlle only 10 Qualtlted stuc:tents. fiiCUIIY and staff who ourchase IBM PS/2'slhr --, - • - 0 app IC8 I . .. COfllbtiH!!O mrntmum annualtneome of $20.000 to be eligible ough PilfiiC•Palt\9 campus outlets Applocants musll'l&>le ll . IBIIA ano PS/:2 are registered trademarks of lnt!tfna110nat Bus1ness Macl't•nes CorporatiOn • IBIIACorpcmntOn1990 , .................................................. : ... ·•·•·••·•••• ......... :······· .••• • • ' ' • ' ' ' • • I < ' n • t ' : ' ' ; ' • • • • ~ ' • • '

P.age 4 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 Through The Point Of No Return By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. It was hard to imagine, but the weekend was drawing to a close. He sat down in his seat and pulled his baseball cap over his eyes. Rest was needed, and soon the gentle rock of the train would help him drift into memories of her. Sure enough, the car began the glide, and he began to drift. After a few minutes, the car began to slow down, to pick up more passengers. He sprang up when he heard two voices next to him, raising his hat, he offered to remove his bag and feet from the seat across from him, so they might have more room. They were two black women, of about the same age, and very politely they esponded by saying they had enough room, that it was all right. With that, he re-assumed his relaxed position, hoping the drift would come back soon. He was a little cold and realized that he should have dressed warmer then his oxford, three- sea~on shell, and no socks. The women began talking as the train resumed its gentle glide, and his head began bobbing at each subtle motion. They were speaking of education. The one to his immediate left seemed to be more the listener than the one sitting diagonally across from . :·. B E R \!·\·'· [) .. \ ... · . (:) ll () R T S . . . ' . him. The first thing she mentioned was how happy she was that she was at a small school, because she got so much more attention. The other just seemed to nod, for he really couldn't tell from under his cap. She went on from here. The talk of education led into a discussion of economy, more precisely the lack thereof. The speaker mentioned how she found it hard maintaining five scholarships, her schoolwork, her job, and just plain living. She concluded by admitting how worth it the sacrifice was, and that she even managed to go out for fun once a week and still maintain a profit of ten ON BREAKING WITH CIVILITY. PLEASE ROCK TKE BOAT. And after our Party Cruise, y0u can windsurf, parasail, or dive. Raise a racquet. Or jom a friend or three for tee. BARBECUES, BANDS AND LUNCH UNDER THE SUl'l. All compliments of the Bermuda Department of Tourism. Pink sand and turquoise water compliments of nature. WE ONLY RENT CONVERTIBLES. They're the perfect way to party hop. Just remember, the left side is the right side. BERMUDA CoLLEGE WEEKS March3 • 31 FROM 7 nights/8 days Air/Land inclusive Call your Lravel agent. Packages offered through: CTS Tours • Apple Tours • Martin Empire Tours • Redman Spurt & Tmvel•AqlrariUB Tr:r.vel ·~~~whoht.icn-.L~ rn.:..:.b.do::m~purclrat.-'-l-r-..thwahliJtJtltromtlcwYorkPric.a.....,~r.o.dllu\ciia. Priou~bwtf(!w~fnlld.Pii:MvtfliTI*IIII2-buldoehP'f'DCICI PrieawqbJwlaolotctfer.Men~DD..,.._,......,, T-MCI~tc&ditiollll cents overall. The quieter one mentioned how she made four seventy-five. \A week?\ \No an hour.\ The two continued on in silence for some time. He had wanted to hear more, but wasn't sure if his head rolls were convincing them anymore, especially since lhey had stopped conversing. Then the speaker broke the silence by asking her friend if she had considered going to school. The latter replied that she was happy with her job, and asked her friend in return what she wanted from life. The answer was to someday own her own pharmaceutical store, as she was. studying to be a pharmacist. Then she would be her own boss. Her friend's encouragement was limited to repeating.her \someday.\ The train soon began to slow down, and he could feel them gathering their things. They got off at the next stop, and as they did were laughing together, as friends often do. He waited until the train had safely left the station to sit up, and put his hat back on properly. He then rubbed his eyes and mouth. Soon it \\ould be his tum to get off, and go back to the system not that he had bought into, but rather had been born into. He couldn't wait to get back, for these commutes were too taxing to his sleep. 1990-91 WINTER TERM PRESCHEDU LING PROCEDURES Preschedulirig materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2. Students should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three choices is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THElR. MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing by an aterisk (*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on MONDAY, NOVEMBER 5. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department. In order to pick up a card, you MUST have your prescheduling form validated by the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30 P.M. ON .. MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A 'LIST' COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their prescheduling form. They should see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who will preschedule them. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However. they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 16. Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in January at Old Chapel. 1st floor. Students wbo do not plan to return to Union for tbe Winter Term except for seniors who are completing their requirements early, should NOTIFY THE DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE IMMEDIATELY. Potential March 1991 \graduates\ should also immediately notify the Registrar's Office of their plans to finish their studies at the end of Winter Term. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the winter term do not need to preschedule their courses. Winter term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, NOVEMBER 12 thru THURSDAY, NOVEMER 15 in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. 3.5\ Diskettes $1.50 ea. Beat the bookstore! Work with both IDM and Mac Support Union College ACM! Now available in Consultant's Office - Steinmetz 102 ' .:,~oj;\! ... _.,f1.) .. ':4t'!f·..,. , _ 't.t ~-.V\'I\''C'11l'-.r'--~..,. \'-- .... 'f\r:.Ar:...:r-.JI\\~I.ll\':,l\:lr'\:ii.'.J~.a'I\.JA'.;flr.JC'Jr.JJ .• .;£~If\ ;J .... ,. a & lfJ&. 111.1/1!). \-!I /tl ~ i1t 1t-.~'t~.,.·'\-\ II ~..-.~11 'I' <l'.r,or.,-,Jl&>\' ...... )'I\..Jo-&\\'....r-. ... 'P~~\'.'''(:o·'E'._'\II..M> •• 1r;'Jilr,l!irl.11f.- .... Ni.!'lll;\'lio'W'\!.IIo.\\!irr...

' . ' ' ' CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 We will be playing at the Football and Hockey games this Saturday f ( 1 0/27) ~ElME UBIN ~~~lfiL ~EJMMITTEE . - JFcoxQ)~lb<BLlili V§ o Ge~fcy§lbLUnrg Meet 1 :00 P.M. at the south end of the main bleachers. (end closest to Bailey Hall) - If=jJaxckey V§ 0 lU CCDIITliDl Meet 7:00 P.M. in Achilles Rink in the bleachers above the zamboni door. (Opposite from main entrance on the far left.) +lfiUF TIME New _members always welcome! You asked for a computer price that . wouldn't turn your pockets inside out. We heard you loud and clear. It's true. We've made the IBM Personal System/2\' as easy to own as it is to use. And our special student price proves it.* Plus, the IBM PS/2 Loan for Learning makes owning one even easier. The PS/2\' comes preloaded with easy-to-use soft- ware including Microsoft~ Windows ™ 3.0. Just tum on the PS/2 to tackle your papers, lab reports, graphics and charts. Also available are special prices on IBM and Hewlett- Packard printers. And if you buy before December 31, 1990, you'll receive a TWAe Certificate entitling you to a round- trip ticket for $149** /$249.** Plus a free TWA Getaway\ Student Discount Card appli- cation. You'U also get a great low price _______,,..__ on the PRODIGY\' service. . STUDENT Check out the IBM PS/2. With our \ lfiiCE student price, you'll be able to keep a \ hand on your budget and a hold on your pocket. ===-=:. =:. =ct = = === -- .. --- ==-=~= \Thts olfer IS available only to qualified students. faculty, staff and institutions thai purchase IBM Selooted Academic Solutions through participating campus locattons. Olders am subject to allailabihty Pnces are subjeCt to change and IBM may withdraw the ofter at any ttme without written nOIK:e. ••valid for any TWA destmalion in the continental U.S or Puerto Rico fllf travel September 16, 1990, through December 19. 1991, at the fotlowtng round-tnp fares: $149.00 round· trip for travel from September 16, 1990,through June 14, 1991. and September 16. 1991\hrough December 19, 1991. $249.00 round-lrtp for travel June 15, 1991, through September 15, 1991. 5gats are hmRed. Fare ts non-refundable 14 d8)' adwnce purchase. blackout dates and certain other restrictions apply. Complete detruls will be shown on certificate. Applicants. for TWA's Getaway Sludent D16Count C&rd must be full-ttme students between the ages of 16-26. ®IBM. Pefsonal System/2 and PS/2 are regiStered tradema!liS of lniemalionlil Bustness Machines Corporation. MicroGoft.is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corpomtion. TWA Is a lllgislellld Mrvice merk ol Till !'WI WOrld Airline&,lnc. T'm. Glltclway is I regiStered tr\ldemallt of Trans WOIId AtrliheS, Inc. PRODIGY 1s a registered service marl< and trademaril ol Prodigy Sefvices Company, a parlrtefllhip oiiBM and SMr&. \'Windowl is 1 ttadllm8rll of Microtlolt Qlrporation ~~>IBM CO!poralion 1990 Page 5

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Montreal: A Real Mountain By ED MENKE In deciding whefe to travel, one usually thinks of finding some cheap rate airfare in the luggage section ofa plane full of smelly people iin order to experience a different culture. As enticing as this might sound, I decided to consider other options whicll might be a bit more feasible. One such option, only four II ours away, is the city of Montreal, located due North of Schenectady. The drinking age is eighteen, the drive is scenic, ancl. the idea of going to a different country and not having to change money was the straw which broke the camel's back. So, then, if I'm going to a different city, I have to get a feel of the city, the people, the culture, etc. To start, I decide to play \What's in a name?\ When first checking in my pocket French dictionary, I find that \mont\ means \mountain and \real\ is not a French word. However, assuming that \real'' in French means \real\ in English, I conclude that Montreal is a city which has to do with some real mountain. Okay. Enough cultural cn.lightenment. LCt's go. Driving up on the Northway, I daR 't get much out of the scenery, because il' s night time. However, I am informed that the Adirondack Park Region is particularly beautiful this time of year, and that I should definitely pay attention on the way home. Okay. I will. When we arrive at the border, I whip out my handy French- by-phrase tourist book to say hello to the Canadian Border Police Officer. As we pull up to customs, I realize that the phrase \service with a smile\ is not the rr. otto of the Border Police. Before I could even get out the \jour\ in \bon jour,\ the charming Border Policewoman inquires as to our visit and sends us on our way. About forty minutes later, we can see the lights of a city on a real mountain looming in the distance. Could this be Montreal? Since the road signs say \Montreal Prochaine Sortie,\ we assume that this is some suburb of Montreal, and we should exit when the sign says \Montreal.\ As we near the city, I am informed that Montreal is an extremely clean city. Coming from Schenectady, I have a pretty good idea of what a clean city is, so my expectations are high. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SP ANISII 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30PM CHINES:E 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to bon-ow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more infoJmation, call Carol Snyder, Language Lab Technician, X621 6. LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM-4:30PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00PM-9:00PM Once in downtown Montreal, I discover that Montreal, the city by a real mountain, is in fact, a clean city, albeit a distant second to Schenectady; the city by G.E. No bums using themselves as urinals, no litter covering the city floor, no eleven-year-olds with Guns- n-Roses t-shirts skateboarding around the city, nothing. Well, maybe not \nothing.\ Upon settling into our accommodations, we decide to test out the night life. As everyone has their favorite hot spots to go to, I won't waste time boring you with details of mine. All I'll say is that, as we turned the corner onto Rue St. Catherine, this docile, innocent city turned into a ten-block miniature Las Vegas. Enoqgh neon to blind, enough skin to appall. and let's just say enough social alternatives to make even our administration have a good time. So, then, how does Montreal rank with the other cities of the world? That's a dumb question; each city has its own personality. Comp-aring Montreal to another city (except Schenectady, the paradigm which all cities try to emulate) is like ,comparing Mallomars to Oreos: they both hold up well in milk, but .they each have a different taste. What I will say is that, if you don't have 3 quadrillion dollars to fly somewhere, a quick trip to Montreal is definitely worth your while. To get to Montreal: Go to your favorite North/South highway. GoNortil. Exit when you see signs for Montreal. ATTENTION: Students, Faculty, Staff ! ! ! Come join the Classics Club on a day trip to New York City Saturday, Nov. 17th •• Tour tbe Met •• See the Sidewalk Theatre Production of Agamemnon or •• Beat tbe Christmas rush and go 'shopping ! ! Those interested stop by the Classics Dept. or call x6376 for more info. All Are Welcome SCARE UP SOME SUPPORT FOR UNION! JOIN US AT THE. STUDENT PHONATHON OCTOBER 29 & 30, 1990 6:00 p.m. - 9:30 p.m. HALE HOUSE DINING ROOM * WIN PRIZES AND TREATS *COSTUMES OPTIONAL , * FOOD AND REFRESHMENTS SERVED *PLEASE CALL STACI DUPRE IN THE ANNUAL FUND OFFICE JC6142 FOR MORE INFO German Film Monday night 7:30 p.m. 4th Floor Lounge College Center ANINVITAnON Union College is among the best. Her alumni are loyal fran East to West. With her 20th birthday upon 11s, President Hull has arrived for all of the fuss. I invite you now to participate in the fim, You '11 be most satisfied when all is :said and done. How may you help, you ask? It is very easy--not a difficclt ,task. You can join us next week, For it is gifts that we seek. For scholarships and resolll:ces. We need your help on our forces. On Monday and Tuesday, In Hale House we will play. With Marc and Tom, At the Student phon~~:th()n. We will eat around six, And have a chance tD mix. Then we will jump on the phones, And dial those touch tones. It is a very fun event, Bu.t it is also important. Support keeps Unioli strong, So how can you go wrong? JOIN THB STIJDRNT PHON ATHONCDMMllTBE MEMBERS AT THB PHONATIION OcrOBER 29 & 30 IN HALE HOUSE DININO ROO:M FROM 6:00 • 9:00, Kristina Lynch '91 Cheri Yanofsky '91 Peter DeBoer '93 Cindy Silverio '91 Marc Weintraub '93 1'ad Lee '93 Natalie Gifford '91 Tom Frisbie '92 Jordan Ely '93 FREE Doughnuts, hot apple cider 6' hot chocolate during half- time at the Union football game, Saturday, October 27 in the CC. Sponsored by Social Committee

CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 Page 7 W01th Saving. ENVIRONMENTAL Just How Dangerous Is Our Contaminated Environment? Vote Green By 'FRANZ LITZ As election day approaches, Americans are faced with a number of important current issues that will help guide their voting decisions. News stories on the budget negotiations and the Middle East crisis have crowded the papers this month. Through such constant news coverage, Americans are able to get an impression of how incumbent federal and state legislators will act on the big news issues of the day. Impressions as to how they will act on environmental issues are harder to come by. Although perhaps equally dramatic, environmental problems do not receive equal attention in the press. Consequently, the majority of us will likely have little idea as to the environmental voting records of our elected officials. That is unfortunate, since our environmentally responsible representatives need our support. Although information on voting records is essential to voting environmentally. it is unrealistic to expect all voters to investigate the behavior of incumbent legislators. It is also unnecessary. Environmental lobby groups make it their day-to- day concern. These groups rate legislators based on their voting records. Governors are similarly rated according to their environmental stances. These ratings, along with the individual stances on particular issues are then published in voters' guides, which are in turn made available to anyone upon request. Most states have such lobbies. Inform yourself U! And then inform others. The list of addresses and phone numbers below is provided with that aim in mind. The large scale of our environmental problems requires large scale action. Broad action requires grass roots support. The voters need to supply that support on election day. Those legislators and governors that have responsible records on environmental issues have earned our votes. Reward them on November6. Through responsible v()ting, environmentally conscious individuals will be brought to office. At a time when environmental issues seem 00 have been pushed once again to the back lmmer, our votes are badly needed By RON HARRIS Public awareness of our environmental problems has become increasingly acute. Saving Planet Earth from pollution is a theme promoted loud and clear by the media, in popular fiction, even in music videos. Yet new research tells us that it is not just the futme that is at risk. Pollution increasingly affects the quality of. our lives right here, right now-- and in subtle ways that we may not even be aware of until it is too late. According to the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), U.S. industry produces 100 times the amount of hazardous waste per person than does the average European country. Some of the more dangerous waste products are now treated at manufacturing sites and sent, in the form of sludge, to toxic landfills for burial. However, before new federal and state standards were set-- standards that many 'experts say are still far from adequate-- industry often simply dumped these wastes wherever was cheap and convenient. Homes and even schools have been built on top of sites where tons of toxic waste were once deposited. Today, in spite of better controls, millions of tons of harmful waste still end up in our air, our water, our land, our food-- and ultimately-- in our bodies. In California alone, for instance, in 1987, 3.6 million pounds of hazardous contaminants went into surface waters such as rivers and lakes, EnvironJDental Lobbies and Interest Groups New York State: Environmental Planning Lobby 170 Washington Avenue Albany, NY 12210 (518) 4(?2-5526 Massachusetts: Environ mental Lobby of Mass. 3 Joy Street Boston, ,MA 021 08 (617) 742-2553 Vermont: Vermont Public Interest Group 43 State Street Montpelier, VT 05602 (802) 223-5221 New Jersey New Jersey Environmental Lobby 7 Robin Drive Oakhurst, NJ 07755 (201) 222-8675 237 million pounds went into public sewers and treatment works, and 79.9 million pounds were discharged into the air. Part of the reason is that there are still a lot of loopholes concerning the disposal of toxic waste and the other polluting by-products of our high-tech society. About 100,000 Americans are estimated by the EPA to die prematurely each year from lung diseases brought on by sulfur dioxide (the chemical which is fatal to streams and lakes in the form of acid rain). Nitrogen dioxide, produced by automobiles, is also believed to have serious effects on long- term health. Over 10,000 different chemicals unintentionally end up in the food we eat. On top of this, more than 3,000 chemicals are delibetately added to our food. Widely aclaimed American author L. Ron Hubbard discovered, after extensive research on the subject, that these chemicals were not being dispelled from the body the way it was originally thought they were. Instead, toxins, chemicals and even medical drugs were building up in the body's tissue and remaining there for years. \According to studies, even some of the things that are put into a can of peas or a can of soup are to be considered toxic,\ writes Hubbard in his new best-seller, Clear Body Clear Mind, a book that details his research on the subject. \They are preservatives and the action of a preservative is to impede decay. Yet digestion and cellular action are based on decay. In other words, those things might be great for the manufacturer as they preserve his product, <but> they could be very bad for the consumer. \It is not that I am on a food faddism kick or a kick against preservatives; the point is that man is surrounded by toxins. This one example alone (preservatives in foods) is an example of the degree to which one can be confronted with toxic substances in the course of daily living.\ In Clear Body Clear Mind, L. Ron Hubbard also details his research on how to get toxins, chemicals and drug residues back out of the body. Called the Purification Program, papers published by the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences and the World Health Organization's International Agency for Research on Cancer indicate that application of these discoveries reduces levels of pesticides and industrial chemicals in the body fat. \Over the past eight years, medical specialists in the U.S. and abroad have used this technique to treat a variety of environmentally related health problems,\ says Michael Wisner, director of HealthMed in Los Angeles, one of a growing number of centers that deliver Hubbard's Purification Program. This technique is now outlined in full for the general public in Clear Body Clear M i n d . It represents a resounding breakthrough, one that can greatly reduce the risks of daily life on a contaminated planet. HELP WANTED THE CAMPUS SAFETY DEPARTMENT IS LOOKING FOR RELIABLE STUDENT EMPLOYEES TO FILL IN FOR SECURITY ASSISTANT COVERAGE AT VARIOUS DORMITORY ASSIGNMENTS ON A ON- CALL BASIS. IF INTERESTED PLEASE STOP AT THE CAMPUS SAFETY OFFICE TUES. THRU SUN. FROM 4PM-12MID AND SPEAK WITH BOB TOMECK. • WWF SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION

P•••••••••••••••••••••••••--••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• I I I I I ! UNION COLLEGE i I I I · FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE i ! 1990-91 FALL TERM I I I I I I I 1 1 Thee~_schedul~isprimarily~ordayundergraduatecourses.AseparatescheduleforGraduate Tuesday, December 4, 1990 9:00-11:00 A.M. I and Contmumg Studies courses wtll be announced, and students in Section \51\ courses should be I I alert for the announcef!lent of th~ exam time f?r these courses. Conflicts in examination should be BI0-032-01 -Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy- G. Butterstein- SSCI 016 I I reported to Mrs. Peck m the Offtce of the Registrar not later t!tan November 19th. BI0-147-01 -Immunology- T. Styles- NWSE 112 I 1 Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the building to be CER-033-01 -Fluid Mechanics- T. Jewell- BUTR 109 1 I used. CER-143-01- Foundations & Construction- G. Gifford- BUTR 300 I CHM-010-01- Fundamental Chemistry I- C Scaife- BU1R 204 1 I ARTS-~ Building NW.SE- North Wing Sc~e~ce & Engineering Center CHM-010-02- \ \ \·_ J. Anderson- BUTR 204 I I BAIL- Bruley Hall PYCH- Psychology Bwldmg CHM-010-03- \ \ \ - D Hayes_ BUTR 204 I BUTR- Butterfie~~ Hall . . SSCI ~ Soci~ Sciences Building CHM-010-04 - \ \ \ - c: Scaife - BUTR 204 I HUMN- Humarubes Bwlding STZH- Stemmetz CHM-01o-05- \ \ \ -c. Weick_ BU1R 204 I 1 CHM-01o-06- \ \ \ ~ R. Silversmith- BU1R 204 I I Monday, December 3, 1990 9:00-ll:OO A.M. CHM-030-01 • Organic Chemistry l • L Hull • BAIL 201 I · CHM-142-01 ~Chemical Instrumentation- T. Werner- NWSE 303 ,. I II BI0-024-01 _Genetics & Evolution_ J. Boyer/S. La Bonne_ SSCI 016 CSC-012-01 - Pro~mming For Natrl. Sciences- L. Alm~t~d- STZH 203 I BIO -180-01- Biochemistry_ H. Birecka _ NWSE 112 CSC-040-01 - Machme & Assembly Language- F. Fedenght- S'IZH 108 1 I CER-150-01 -Hydrology_ P. Snow_ BUTR 104 EC0-012-06- Introo,uction to Eco~omics- P. Propser- ~SCI 014 1 I CLS-021-01 -History of Greece_ J. Marincola _ HUMN 11 5 EC0-033-01 -Public Pol. & ~e~can Industry- D: Kl~m- SSCI 103 I I EC0-032-01- Labor & Industrial Relations_ P. Prosper_ SSCI 112 EER-124-01 - Intro to Probabt!tstic Systems- J. Spnielli- STZH 106 I I EC0-145-01- Managerial Economics_ J. Kenney_ SSCI 110 EGL-075-01- The_Early Arnencat''l ~ovel- B. MacDonald- HUMN 116 I I EER-063-01- Electron Circ Analysis & Design_ E. Hassib _ NWSE 116 FRN-010-01- Bas~c French I- E. Krrk- HUMN 014 . I EER-163-01 -Electromagnetic Engineering n . Y. Chang. HUMN 014 FRN-012-01 • Baste French m . L Day -SSCIJ05 . I 1 ESC-010-01 - Mechanics r . D. Bunk • NWSE 222 GE0-050-01 • Envrronmental Geology • R. Gildner· HUMN 019 I I ESC-010-02 - Mechancis I _ M. Rivera_ BU1R 106 GER-012-01 ·Baste Gennan Ill -D. Lund- HUMN 117 1 I ESC-030-01 -Mechanics ofDefonnable Solids_ P. Weiss_ BUTR 109 GRK-010-01- Principles of ~re~k I- C. Sorum- HUMN 119 1 HST-013-01- History of U.S. to Civil War_ R. Wells_ SSCI 103 HST-050-01- Westem_Impenahsm- E. Hansen- SSCI 104 I I· HST-013-02- History ofU.S. tc Civil War- A. Ettling _ SSCI 104 JPN-120-01- Interm~ateJ~panesei- A:·S~- ~ 113 . 1 I HST-030-01 -American Economic Development_ J. Finkels~in _BAIL 207 MER-022-01 - Matenals Sc1e~ce & Engmeenng- F. Milillo- NWSE 210 I I HST-035-01- History of Europe I_ s. Sargent_ BAIL 201 MER-026-01- Thermodynamics- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 1 HST-035-02 • History of Europe r . E. Hansen • HUMN 114 MER-050-01 - Heat Transfer Analysis & Design - R. C. Reddy - BAIL 100 I I HST-121-01 • Amer. Constitutional & Legal Hist • M. Jonas • sscr 010 PHY -011-01 • Introductton to Phy~cs I • I. Newman • NWSE 114 I 1 MER-040-01 - Engineering Design I • H. Lyons,. NWSE 210 PHY .013-01 - IDtro<Inctton to Phystcs II • C. Jones - NWSE 116 I I MTH-040-01 .. Applied Linear Algebra_ w. Fairchild_ BAIL 104 PSY -013-01 - A Fust Course m Psychoogy • S. Greenberg - PYCH 113 I I MTH-133-01- Abstract Algebra II_ M. Frame_ BAIL 102 PSY-030-01 - Pers.omility_- K. H. Olsen- PYCH 102 1 PHL-030-01 -Greek Philosophy -C. Gould- HUMN 019 RUS-010-01 - Baste Ru~sian I- M.· Rudko ~ PYCH 204 I I PHY -050-01 -Electronic Circuits- A. Anderson- NWSE 303 SOC-010-01 - Intr?ducno~ to Socmi~gy - R. Quay- SSCI 012 I I PSC-044-01 -Japanese Political Behavior_ D. Thurston_ BAIL 1 06 SPN-010-01 - B~~1c Sp~tsh I,; R. Vtmck- SSCI 112 I I PSY-010-02- A First Course in Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 SPN-OI0- 02 - , -A. Noel-Gosh- SSCI 110 I 1 PSY-020-01- Statistical Methods in Psychol.- K. DeBono- PYCH 102 1 1 PSY-038-01- Dev~lopmental Psychology- PYCH 213 · 1 Thursday, December 6, 1990 9:00-11:00 A.M. I II Tuesday, December 4, 1990 1:30-3:30 P.M. ARS-074-01 ·Classical Art & Architecture- Warren- ARTS 313 . I BI0-016-01 - Introduction to Biology I - W. Roth/R. Olberg- SSCI 016 I I ARS-033-01- Intro to Hist. of Architecture- Warren- ARTS 215 CHM-030-02- Organic Chemistry I- J. Sowa- BAIL 207 1 I EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financ!al Analysi~- B. Lewis- SSCI 103 CHM-154-01 - Ph~sical.Chemistry III .. D. Hayes- BAIL 203 I I EGL-040-01 -World ofthe Btble- P. Hemegg- HUMN 115 . CHN-010-01 -Baste Chinese I· Mao Chen- HUMN 119 I I EGL-072-01- Literature of the New Nation- N. Shour- HUMN 112 CLS-024-01- Classicical Art & Architecture- Warren- ARTS 313 1 GER-Olo-01- Basic German I-S. Kellenter- HUMN 117 CSC-011-01- Progmmnting for Social Sciences- J. Castlebery- STZH 106 I I GRK-130-01 • Homer: The Odyssey . I. Lenz • HUMN 119 ECD-043-01 - Economic Growth & Development- B. Reynolds • sscr 012 I 1 HEB-010-01 - Basic Hebrew I- D. Heckelman • HUMN 014 EER-018-01 • lotto to Digital Computers - C. Traver - NWSE 112 I Tn:rr n1 '7 n1 C'~- 9- co~~~~-· D n~t.-~~ UTTJI.n.J 11A EER-060-01 - Signals & Systems- E. Craig - NWSE 222 I ~ - -------- • \'CC ~ IJGI ..,. oe n ~ n ~ ;; ~ ~ .. 0 r:') s ;r .. ~ \'~ ~

LII..L'-.&.Ut I EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financ!al B. Lewis- SSCI 103 CHM-154-01 - III .. D. Hayes g BAIL 203 I I EGL-040-01 -World of the B1ble- P. Hemegg- HUMN 115 . CHN-010-01 -Basic Chinese I· Mao Chen~ HUMN 119 I EGL-072-0 1 - Lilerature of the New Nation - N. Shour -lflTh4N 112 CLS-024-01 - Classicical Art & Arch;recture - Warren - ARTS 3!3 I 1 GER-010-01 -BasK: Germon I-S. Kellenter -lflTh4N 117 CSC-011-01 - Progmmnting for Soda! Sciences- J. Castlebery- S1ZH 106 I 1 GRK-130-01 - Homer: The Odyssey - J. Lenz -lflTh4N 119 ECD-043-01 - Economic Growth & Development- B. Reynolds - SSCI 012 I 1 HEB-010-01 -Basic Hebrew I- D. Heckelman -lflTh4N 014 EER-018-01 - Intro to J);gital Computers- C. Traver- NWSE 112 I I PHL-017-01- Sex & Society- R. Baker -iflTh4N 114 EER-060-01- Signals & Systems- E. Craig - NWSE 222 I I PHL-020-01 -Classical Logic-S. KmDinsky -lflTh4N 019 EGL-021-01 - Majm English Authors ill- A. Frnzier -lflTh4N I 16 1 I PSY-010·04 ·A First Coursv in Psychology- K. DvBono- PYCH 113 EGL-055-01- Shakespeare to 1600- R. Stevenson- Hillv1N 112 1 PSY -010-05 - II II n II n - K. H. Olsen - PYCH 102 FRN~ 1:20·0 1 - Intermediate Prench I - L. Day - HOMN 117 I I PSY -036-01 - Psychology of Learning - T. D'Andrea - PYCH 213 FRN-120-02 - \ \ \ - \ \ \ \ I SOC-136-01 - Wealth and Poverty in America- R. Quay - SSCI 104 FRN-130-01 - Intro to French Litealaure - E. Kirk - !lUMN 110 I 1 GE0-010-01- Physical Geology- K. Hollocher- BUTR 201 I 1 HST-041-01- Medieval Burope- S. Sargent- SSCI 104 1 Wednesday, December 5, 1990 9:00-11:00 A.M. LAT-010-01- Pr~iple~ of Latin I- J. Scullion- SSCI 010 I 1 JPN-1l10-01 -Basic Japanese I- Y. Nakagawa -lflTh4N 114 MER-042-01 - EngnJeenng Destgn ill- R. Eggert. NWSE 210 I I JPN-010-02 - • • • - \ • - • • MfH-101-01 - Advanced Calculus for Engrs. - A. Seiken - BAIL 100 I I Mlli-010-01-. Calculus I- A. Taylor- BUTR 204 PHL-015-01- Philo & Existential Literature- L. Patrik • HUMN 114 1 MTH-010-02- \ \- M. Frame- BAIL 102 PHY-011-02- Introduction to Physics I- Mead- NWSE 114 1 MTH-010-03- \ \ -A. Taylor_ BU1R 204 PHY-011-03- Introduc~ion to P~ysics I- R. Khosropour- NWSE 116 1 I MTII-010-04. \ \ • J. Barbarle1- HUMN 115 RUS-120-01- Intennedtate Russian I-N. Jemakoff- HUMN 113 I I MTH-010-05 - II 11 • A. Taylor - BU1R 204 SPN-012-01 - Basic Spanish III - R. Vinick- SSCI 110 I MTH-013-01 - AP Calculus- J. Muckenfuss • BAIL 201 SPN-012-02 - Basic Spanish Til ,. 0. Erwin- SSCI 112 I I Mlli-013-02- \ \ ' - W. Stone_ BML 203 SPN-120-01 -Intermediate Spanish I- A. Noel-Gosh- HUMN 115 . I MTH-013-03 - \ \ - J. Muckenfuss_ BAIL 201 SPN-120-02- Inrermediate Spanish I- A. Noel-Gosh -lflTh4N 115 I 1 MfH-013-04- \ • _A. Prindle_ BAIL 21J7 SPN-140-01- Cervantes: Don Quixore- P. Moyano- SSCI 105 I I MfH-Ql3-Q5- .. • - w. Fairchild- BAIL 102 . . I I MTH-013-06 - \ • _ A. Prindle_ BAIL 207 T~nrsday, December 6, 1990 1:30·3:30 P.M. I I MTH-014-01 -Calculus m - v. Ferlini- BAIL 100 I MTI:I-014-02- 11 \ - K. Rosenthal- BAIL 106 CLS-031-01- Gr~k & R~man Epic in Translat~on- J. Marincola- HUMN 112 1 I MTH-018-01- Intro to Logic and Set Theory. J. Barbanel- HUMN 115 EGL-020-01- MaJor English Authors II- P. He1Uegg- HUMN 117 1 . I MTII-018-02- \ \ \ \ \ \ • v. Ferlini _BAIL 100 EGL-022-01- Major American Authors- N. Shour- HUMN 116 I FRN-148-01- French Spedal Topic- W. Thoma<- Hl!MN H4 I I GER-120-0I -Intermediate Gennan I- K- Hainm-Ehsani - HUMN 119 I 1 Wednesday, December 5, 1990 1:30-3:30 p.M. GER -131-01 - Survey of German Lirerature - D. Lund - lflTh4N 213 I 1 GER-140-01 - Das deutsche Millclalter- D. Lund- HUMN 213 1 I B!D-051-01 -Ecology - c. George - NWSE 112 HST-018-01 - Progres~ve Era~ The Great War- M. Jonas - SSClllO 1 EC0-012-03- Introduction to Economics- T. McCarty. SSCI 014 HST-065-01- East Asian ~Ivih.t:atwn -p. Thurston- SSCI 112 1 I I EC0-020-01 - Intro to Statistical Analysis. S. Yaisawamg- SSCI 112 HST-128-01 -Early Amvncan Intell. History- A. Ettling- SSCI 103 I EC0-063-01- Economics of Health- J. F. Burgess_ BAIL 312 MTH-146-01- Advanced Calculus L- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 102 I I EC0-138-01- Quantitative Methods In Econ.- E. Motahar- SSCI 110 PHL-011-01- Philosophical Classics I:. C. Gould- HUMN 115 . I I EGL-018-01- Introduction to Literary Fonns- W. Hathaway- HUMN 117 PHY-010-01- Extended Intro to Physics-A-S. Maleki- NWSE 114 1 . I EGL-022-02- Major American Authors -B. Wineapple- HUMN 116 PRY -011-04 -Introduction to Physics I - R. Magahiz - NWSE 112 1 ESC-013-01 - High Level Language Programming - N.M. MaZur- S1ZH 108 PHY -131-01 - Electromagnetism I - K. Schick - NWSE 303 I I ESC-015-0l -Numerical Melhods and Fortran - L. Almstead- S1ZH 106 PSC-011-01 - Conremp=y American Politics - C.Tidmarch - SSCI 104 I 1 LAT -130-01 - Catullus and Horace - C. Sorum - HUMN 213 PSY -046-0 I - Introducuon to Plsychob10logy - C. Weisse - PYCH 113 1 I MTH-060-0 1 - Topics in Mathematical Pol. Sci. - W. Zwicker - BAIL 102 RUS-128-01 - Intro to Russian Civiliztion - N. Jemakoff - lflTh4N 113 1 PSY-031-01- Abnormal Psychology- R. Nydegger- PYCH 102 SPN-131-01- Intro to Spanish-American Lit.- P. Moyano- HUMN 110 1 I I STA-110-01- Intro to Statistical Methods I- Ji. Lambrinos- BAll.. 205 EC0-012-01 ·Introduction to Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 104 I PSC-023-01 .: Topics in Mathematical Pol. Sci. - W. Swicker- BAIL 102 EC0-012-02 - \ \ \ - B. Reynolds .. SSCI 103 I I EC0-012-04- \ \ 11 -B. Reynolds- SSCI 103 I EC0-012-05- \ \ \ - J. Kenney- SSC! 104 I 1 ELL-012-01- Homes, Bldgs., & Enr. Principles- H.G. Harlow_ BU1R 204 I I Monday. December 3, 1990 1:30-3:30 P.M. ELL-012-02- \ \ \ \ \ - H.G. Harlow_ BUTR 204 I 1 MTH-030-01- Ordin Differential Equations- A Seiken- BAIL 203 I I ACC-010-01 -Financial Accounting I- J. Lippitt- BAIL 201 MTH-030-02- 11 \ 11 ·_ W Stone. BAIL 205 •. C:BR-129-01 - Comp. Aidvd Structl. Dsgn. & Amllys, - M. Mmi- BVI'R 109 . I CSC-037-01- Structured Programming- D. Hannay- NWSE 116 The following courses will have a common exam with thv e e · · d. · · · · · · · - I I EC0-031-01- Microeconomic Analysis- E. Foster- SSCI 012 v mng IVIsmn svcuon. I I EC0-042-01- Macroeco~~mic Theory. & Policy- E. ~otahar- SSCI 103 Monday, December 3 • 4:30-6:30 P.M. I I EGL-067-01 - Mod~m B.nush & ~encan Poetry- B. Wineapple- HUMN 112 CSC-136-01 -Advanced Programming Techniques- G. Williams_ BAIL 102 I 1 MER-012-01 - Engmeenng Grap~tcs II- H. Lyons- NWSE 222 CSC-136-51- Advanced Programming Techniques_ G. Williams. BAIL 102 I I MTH-100-01- Orthogonal Funcuons- S. Perera- BAIL 102 I 1 PHL-042-01 -Ethic~- R. Bak.er- fil!MN 117 . EER-041-01 ~Electrical Circuits- E. Craig- BAIL 207 I I PSC-051-01- Am:ncan Poretgn Polley- C. GatJ.- HUNIN 116 EER-041-51- Electrical Circuits- Y. Chan -BAIL 207 I PSY-024-01- Social Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 g I PSY-030-02- Pe~nality- D. Spring- PYCH 213 Tuesday, Dece\.nber 4 _ 7:00-9:00 P.M. I I SOC-024-01 - Soc1al Psychology- V. Dawson- PYCH 113 CER-016-01 -Computer Applicr.tions forCE_ T. Jewell- HUMN 115 I I CER-016-51 - Computer Applic~tions forCE - T. Jewell- HUMN 115 I I I ·-------------------------------------------------------------------- ! ------------------------~ \) ~ 8 ~ ~ ~ ~ <:!) ~ s ~ ... ~ ,?l .... ~ ~ \'; I» IJQ tf) 'ICI

Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS, October 25, 1990 <llJlltfllrbtrnsis -----Fou11ded at Union College 1877--- A ·welcomed Break One of the great advantages of having an academic calendar divided into three terms is the ease with which the calendar can be diversified. This past weekend was a prime example of how the trimester system can work to its potential for the students and faculty of the College. The four day break which was actually worked into our calendar to ac-commodate earlier scheduling discrepancies provided students with a much welcomed rest from everyday activities. Students had a chance to visit friends and relatives or stay behind to prepare for mid-terms. Unfortunately, students who chose to remain on- campus to catch up on schoolwork faceo closed doors at the library as well as several academic buildings which are often used for studying. It is true that · students could have taken advantage of the library resol:ll'ces offered by Albany and Schenectady, but they shouldn't have been asked or expected to do so. It was wrong for the Administration to assume that students would not be in need of the library over the four day break. Lots of colleges across the country schedule academic breaks into their student calendars. These colleges are not unaware of the fact that many students may choose to do work during this break. We believe the Fall Break idea is a novel one for Union and encourage the Administration to adopt this procedure on an annual basis, being sure to keep in mind that while class times may disappear for two days, the workload associated with those classes will always loom above our heads. Not A Case of Discrimination This newspaJler is produced by and for the students of Union College and those that have an interest in the Union community. All students are invited and encouraged to contribute to the Concordiensis. Regrettably, the editors are not always able to extend personal invitations to each member of the community who might be able to help the paper. \Likewise the editors are not always able to define the standards or the guidelines of the paper to each potential contributor. M<lst who have tried have found that their submissions Vlere welcomed and appreciated. Occasionally, however, we receive items that we deem inappropriate for our publication. After all, the job of the editors is more than simply to lay out each and every article that might come across our desks. Tllis is the case not only at the Corcordiensis but at every publication that we know of. Usually when a submission is rejected, the author of the piece was a ware or perhaps somewhat suspicious that the possibility of refusal was a distinct one. Last week, though, there was an article by the African and Latino Alliance of Students that was not printed, and the authors bemoaned the autocracy displayed by the editors. Even if it VIas not openly expressed, it was hardly a stretch to infer from the reactions of ALAS that the organization has accused Concordiensis of prejudicial behavior. Because the group has promised that we have not heard the last from them, it seemed appropriate to all- our side right now. The article in question was written in Spanish. That is the reason why it was not considered for publication. As editors of the newspaper, it is not o~ly our privilege but also our obligation to examine the content of each potential article. Most articles are accepted; some are not. The article by ALAS was unable to be considered because it was not in English. We have never had, nor are we about to adopt, a policy of printing bilingually. In addition to our own difficulties associated with articles in other languages, our publisher would not be thrilled about having to typeset a foreign language. Concordiensis has always been and will continue to be available to ALAS as a forum for expressing its opinions and concerns. It does not seem too much to ask that they make their submissions in English. Lastly, why would a group that has historically daimed that it is misunderstood want to screen itself from the very audience that it would claim does not tmderstand it? LETTERS College Encourages Apathy To the Editor: At a college where the administration, faculty, and staff complain of student apathy, it is a shame that the students are not encouraged to particpate. As with the National Conference for Undergraduate Research last spring, students of Union College were not informed of or formally invited to the Women's Studies Residency held here last weekend. A common complaint lodged against people of our generation is that students attend classes and take exams strictly for the grades, not for the knowledge that should accompany it. Yet, when the opportunity arises, as it did last spring and again this fall, Union College does not allow students to learn for learning's sake. On a campus whose Women's Studies program is just getting off the ground and the new president says he is interested i:n student participation and educational diversity, this conference should have been of particular importance. Instead, the whole thing was pushed under the rug where, hoepfully, no one would look for it. Here at Union we are not given days off for national or religious holidays, yet we are encouraged to l~ve campus by being given long weekends when academic conferences are being held on our own campus. These weekends are put on the calendar months in advance, yet the general population of It Says to m~ that man is a1o{)e in sr,ace, lett to ponde1· that loneliness by himself .... ALL LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITI'ED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETIERSAND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS ~LNOTBE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the Editorial Board students does not know the purpose of the long weekend. The administration has ample time and resources to make available to the college community the nature, schedule, and meeting places related to the event Even those students left on campus after the .long-weekend exodus cannot attend due to lack of information. I encourage the administration to let the student body of Union College expand their educational opportunities in the future by supplying to the students complete and prompt information on the upcoming academic events. Respectfully, Amy B. Joslin \' f.

CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 Page 11 We're Bringing Back Camp .Union! To the Editor: Due to the new New York State law on alcohol, we, the students of Union were robbed last year ofour favorite spring time activity, Camp Union. Well, instead of continuing to grumble about how the old administration under PresMo. took away our beloved Camp Union, we can now actually do something about it. Last Thursay, October 18, President Hull carne to North College to meet with the students and discuss their ideas. Having had fond memories of CaJ!lp UniQn from my freshman year and still tasting the bitter disappointment of its cancellation last spring, I asked him to reinstate this blissful event. After a brief debate, he said to me. \ ... organize a committee with your fellow students ... and present to me a workable plan.\ I asked President Hull if he was serious and he responded that he would be waiting for me to bring forth a proposal. Thus, this letter is an invitation going out to every student in the Union C<>llege community. I ask any member of the Greek community, anyone from 'We Care A:bout ¥ ou', anyone from the 'Union ~rnprovement Committee•, any mdependent student or any member of any other campus o:r:ganization to come together to formulate a plan to BRING BACK CAMP UNION THIS SPRING! President Hull has given us the green light to make Camp Union a reality again. Let us take advantage of his offer. FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT ME AT 386 x4275 or BOX 1044. GET YOUR IDEAS TOGETE.ER FOR THE FIRST MEETING. DAT'E TO BE ANNOUNCED. Jordan Lippner '92 The Minerva Hour The Minerva Committee of Union College presents Oct. 25 The American experience for millions of immigrants started at Ellis Island. The restored Ellis Island is ~ expected to draw millions of tourists who will vicariously relive the frrst American experiences of their ancestors. Ziva N. Benderly, a professional engineer and associate director of Restoration and Preservation for the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island Foundation, will speak on \Ellis Island Restoration.\ Thursday, 11:30 a.m. All are welcome. Admission is free. For more infonnation, call (518) 370-6508. DON'T FALL INTO THE SAME OLD GIFT GIVING RUTH WHEN YOUR SEARCHIN·G FOR A UNIQUE OCTOBER GIFT GIVING IDEA ... TELECOMMUNICATIONS GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE THE PERFECT GIFT illi ALTERNATIVE V UNION COLLEGE TELEPHONE GIFT CERTIFICATES ARE AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE AT THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE, COLLEGE CENTER/103. FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL 6411 LETTERS Administration Gets an \F\ Over the Weekend To the Editor: This past weekend was called \Fall Break\ in which a num.ber of Union students left campus for the long weekend. However, a significant part of the student body stayed for athletic events, to catch up and prepare for mid-terms, and some were simply unable to get home. Union, supposedly a \college of high academic standards,\ clearly proved the extent to which the college administration sees the students as valuing the library, which shortened its hours dramatically (Friday 8:30-5:00, Monday 9:00-5:00), and Tuesday (9:00- 5:00) and did· not accomodate ,the students. We feel that the college should constantly provi-de an academic environment for their students. Shouldn't the administration feel the same? If so, why were the Humanities, Social Sciences, and Science & Engineering buildings locked up tighter than Fort Knox and unavailable Jor student use the whole four-day weekend. We would think that the administration realizes that this can be classified as one of the mid-tenn weeks and students specifically stay here to study. At the very least, the library should have been open on Monday and Tuesday night. Most students study after dinner, but this Friday, Monday, and Tuesday, the study time was drastically cut. We hope Preside11t Hull is a good· fund-raiser, because if Union can't afford to pay our library staff for an extra six hours each of those nights, Union College is in serious financial troubles. For that small tmtlon bill of approximately $13 ,000 a year, we would think that Union Living With AIDS could afford to keep the library open. The staggering study in U.S. News and World Report ranking Liberal Arts schools, kept Union College out of the top 25 Liberal Arts schools in the Northeast. We hope that this report and this weekend's mistake is not an indication of where Union College is heading academically in the future. The Mid-Atlantic States Report claims something to the effect that Union students engage in less intellecutal conversation than other students at schools of equal caliber. It is tough to engage in intellectual conversation when all the academic settings are shut down and the only alternatives seem to be Rupsis Tavern and Geppctto's Bar and Grill. Eric MiUer '91 Andrew Salem '91 Deke Lincoln '91 .... , ......... ::\ ..... ·- The 4th Annual AIDS Awareness Week Sunday Nov. 4th - Friday, Nov. 9th HIGHLIGHTS \The :Bottom Line\ Sunday, Nov. 4th: A person with AIDS talks to Union students. 8-9 p.m. WRUC 89.7 FM. Monday, Nov. 5th: Keynote address, Dr. Peggy Brooks-Bertram, AIDS Prevention Director for .HUD .~d theN ational Institute for Drug Abuse, \The Four Pillars of the Umverse - 11:30 a.m. College Center, Auditorium. \Talking About Living with AIDS\ Dr. Bertram meets with students - 4:30 p.m. Social Sciences Faculty Lounge Sponsored by ALAS ' \Living with AIDS: Moral & Ethical issues\ Speaker-Robert Baker, Union Professor of Philosophy' sponsored by the Union Pre-Health Society-7:30p.m. College Center 410 ' Tuesday, Nov. 6th: \Crosstalk-AIDS; Phobias, Taboos, & Politics\ - 8:00p.m. College Center 302 Thursday, Nov. 8th: \Liying with AIDS on the College Campus\ - Speaker -Dr. Paul Leclerc, fo?Jler Umon Professor and now President of Hunter College- 11:30 a.m. Minerva Hour Memorial Chapel Friday, Nov. 9th: \Hot Sex.y, and Safer\ Suzy Landolphi, Comedienne- 8:00p.m. Memorial Chapel The above events are all free and are open to all members of the College. For more specific information or for a complete schedule of events, contact Ms. Aniolek in the Biology Department (x6241 ).

Page 12 CONCORDIENSlS, Octobur 25, 1990 ~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT --------------------- Horoscopes By Mada1ne ??? LIBRA: Your future is looking bright ~ .. you better wear shades. Don't be afraid to show your true emotions, you may just find he'll/st:le'll shC>w his/hers. Jeff· Presslaff Quintet Plays at Union College SCORPIO: This is yowr birthday month. Expect to get many interesting presents ..... of what sort, let your imagination go ..... scooty, scooty, scooty! SAGITTARIUS: Be careful, sex and thesis don't mi:x - too much of one leads to too little of the other! Unless of course you're smart and picked sex as your thesis topic . .. it's not too late to make that change. CAPRICORN: How's the love life doing? It's not too late to go that extra mile to make it better. After all, beer isn't your only love. Go Ol!lt and get that special girl/guy. AQUARIUS: Too mLJctl is never, I repeat~ never enough. Live free or die! PISCES: The Saturn moon is in the Uranus ring ... no just kidding ... Get out of the library and have some fun. ARIES: You're all talk and no action. If you put your money where your mouth is, you'd be a billionaire. Act on the impulse ... TAURUS: Get back in bed and get back out on the right side. if he/she is in that bed ... get back in there and STAY IN! GEMINI: Don't walk alone at night in the streets. find a cutie and go down to Ceniral Park and hold hands before winter starts. CANCER: Money is 1ight, play your numbers, and loosen up, find solace i11 front of an unlit fireplace and stop looking outside of y()urself to fulfill the void you've been feeling. LEO: Take a big step back and look at what you've been doing. If it's what you want ... go for the gusto. If not ... be straight with yourself, and all else involved. VIRGO: You CAN have your cake and eat it too. But be careful, it's not the igstant, quick & easy microwave variety ... take things sl()wly ... KNICKERBOCKER ARENA M.C. Hammer/Special Guest ~ Vogue 10/14. WWF Wrestfing 10/26. Bad CompsrryjDamn Yankees 10121. fee Capades 11/1·11 NATIONAL PROFESSIONAL SOCCER LEAGUE New York Kick vs. Illinois Tllunder 11/4. Detroit Rockers 11/6. Canton Invaders 11121. 2/20. Dayton Dyrramo 12/6. Chicago Power 12!11. Detroit Rockers 12!22. Hershey lmpsct 12!23. 3(17 Hershey Impact EXH/8/TIQN NBA New York Knicks vs. Ph(/8delphla 76ers 10/17. Minnesota Timberwolves vs. New Jersey Nets 10/24 SIENA BASKETBALL Siena vs. Pittsburgh 11/28. Evansville 1/2. Creighton 2/3 •Z: TICKET CEI>JTERS IN THE CAPITAL DISTRICT Union College will kick off its T r ad i ti on s of Improvisation concert series with the Jeff Presshff Quintet who will play an evening of original music by jazz composer, pianist~ and current Union faculty member Jeff Presslaff. The quintet will feature saxophonist Cornelius Bumpus who is well known for his work with the Doobie Brothers. Presslaff, who spent several years in the Capital District before moving to Pri11ceton, NJ, has played with major jazz players Ed Blackwell, Roswell Rudd, and the late Bill Bat.roH. He has also fr·equently performed with local artists Julie Kabat arid Mark Foster. He was recently ho11ored with a New Jersey Council on the Arts Individual Artist Fellowship, a gra11t based on past artistic excellence. In addition to C. Bumpus, Jeffs quintet higblights the playing of Pat Wristen, a strikingly original trumpet and flugelhom player, acoustic bassist Wilbo Wright, who just returned from a tour with Yo La Tengo, and Ferdi Serifu, who has played drums with such noted artists as Dizzy Gillespie and Frank TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS TELEPHONE LINE OR TELEPHONE EQUIPMEIT REPAilt PROBLEMS FOR STUDENT TELEPHONE SERVICE OR EQUIPMENT PROBLEMS CALL THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS OFFICE AT 6411 BEFORE BRINGING YOUR PHONE INTO THE OFFICE. BY DIALING 6411 WE'LL DETERMINE IF YOU ARE EXPERIENCING LINE OR EQUIPMENT PROBLEMS A.ND POSSIBLY SAVE YOU AN UNNECESSARY TRIP TO OUR OFFICE. Foster. The concert takes place on Thursday, November 8 at 8 P.M. in the Arts Building Performing Arts Studio on the Union College Campus (use the entrance and parking lot on Nott St. just east of Seward Place). AdmissioFJ. is free and open to the public. For more information please call 370- 6201. Other concerts in the series will feature Tom Guralnick and his Mobile Saxophone and Mute Unit in the Winter Term, and the Terry Riley Ensemble in the spring. Dates TBA. What ii!it • • 0 A woman slaps her boyfriend and he punches her back. IS THIS DOMESTIC VIOLENCE? • CAPITAl DISTRICT ALBANY. Leedons Video, 1796 Western Ave World Record1o, 1 32 Central Ave BURNT HILLS, Leeder• 'lldeo, 812 Saratoga Road. CLIFTON PARK, Leodo~ VIdeo. Fore Ro P1a2a COBLESKILL. Le&Cloro VIdeo. Shoppers Mart. COLONIE, Record Town, 20 Wolf Rd. DELMAR, Leedera Vldeo,340 Delware Ave. EAST GREENBUSH, Recordalo Such, Shop & Save Plaza. HUDSOI'I, lfldeo Cave, Jamesway Plaza. NISKAYUNA, LHd,.ra VIdeo, 1721 Un•on St. ROTIERD.t..M, Loed&re VIdeo, 1822 Altamont Ave. SCHENECTADY, Drome Sound, 3486 Stale St L4iodo,.; VIdeo, 129 Canal Square; TROY, Rolnbow Vld&C>, 156 4th Street Solution to \Be Witched\ ·· . · · CALL~FOR-;TIX '(.51.8) 476-1000 . Talk on Chester Arthur to Open Union College Lecture 1 Series Schenectady, N.Y. (Oct. 15, 1990)-Manfred Jonas, the John Bigelow Professor of History at Union College, will speak on Chester A. Arthur, a member of the College's Class of 1848 and 17th president of the United States, at 3:30p.m. Thursday, Oct. 25, in Room 016 of the Social Sciences Building at Union. The talk will open a series of free public lectures on famous Union College people that will con1inue at a rate of one per term, until the College's bicentennial in 1995. ~~~~- ~~~-.~ BANES DOTS B R A T 0 P E P G A A A 0 I T s A M I D M A M A p R E y N E

CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 Page 13 = ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT At the Rainbow's I edge you'll find ... Better Than Bran - The WRUC Record Reviews Co:ne to the CHUC room c.nd ·c1se either a Rainbow or a l\1acintosh for your ·v.:ordprocessing needs. The choice is up to ycu! CHUC is located in the basement of the Hwnanities building. Don't keep your mouth dosed !!i! Y.le Vv~t to h~ar from ll\· at tll~ 6th Annual PUBLIC SPEAKING COMPETITION Thusday November 8th 8:30p.m. CASH PRIZES!!!! TO ENTER CALL: 386-4076 or 386-4079 By RON EUGENIO The Call-Red Moon-(MCA) The first thing that comes to mind while listening to this is the concept of age. This is the same band that played snidely on \The Walls Came Down\. This is the same band that wailed and pleaded on \I Still Believe\. This is the same band that turned strangely optimistic on last year's Let The Day Begin •. After eight years, the Call introduce Red Moon, and album that belies their age. If you think the Call are getting flabby after seven albums, this one will show they aren't aging, just settling down nicely, thank you very much. It seems they have accepted their role of being a band that has a lot to say, the talent to say it, but are studiously ignored by the general listening public. With the burden of being a pop icon lifted, lyricist and lead singer Michael Been can take fervent aim at politicians (\The Hand That Feeds You\) materialism (\You Were There\) and other topics untouchable by megastars who really want to be taken seriously (read-George Michael). But wait! .This album also Fri., Sat., Sun. 8:00 and 10:30 /1 @@@ @ ~®U@fifJ ©@ !lfJ ll tg@ If \WJ UIM $11 @@ o • Create a logo to help celebrate the 20th anniversary of co- education at Union and win $100. • Your design will be used on posters, letterhead, and T .. shirts. • It should reflect the theme of 20 years of co-education/women at Union. Submission Deadline: Nov. 1 Application form & fact sheet available In Rm. 106, Social Science Bldg. Sponsored by the Women's Commission. boasts the most relentless, heartfelt love song this side of Sinead O'Connor. \Like You've Never Been Loved\ holds the same emotional impact of earlier Call albums, but the music compliments the words so well, making the song feel as strong as Been wants it to be. \What a Day\ combines humble lyrics \Take a young boy, make him fly{fake a hard man, make him cry/Struggle, what a day\ with a beefed up backing band that takes the group close to U2 land. The sensitivity /ferociousness of O'Connor, and the ferociousness/sensitivity of U2. With Red Moon they are coming to the twilight of their career, but The Call still show they still have a few more good rattles left in their cage. The Cocteau Twins-Heaven Or Las Vegas-(Capitol) With the huge success of Depeche Mode and the moderate success of the Sundays, the Cocteau Twins were fated to be the next on the chopping block. The Twins share the same airy, synthesized musical influences as the Mode. while Harriet Wheeler, lead singer for the Sundays, won hearts by singing in the same higher- than-helium style as the Twins' singer Elizabeth Fraser. So it's natural that this record will be successful, will receive heavy airplay from college stations, and will result in the Cocteau Twins giving interviews, autographs, and a little bit of themselves. Chop chop. In the Cocteau Twins press release (sigh), their record company described their album Heaven Or Las Vegas as \The most beautiful music you may ever hear\. Maybe that's a slight exaggeration, but the claim goes beyond the usual P.R. huffing. Songs like \Wolf In The Breast\ and the heavily-hyped single release (double sigh) \lceblink Luck\ showcase the group in their graceful glory. It's really two elements working against each other; the music, which churns broodingly coupled with Fraser's voice, light and untouchable. The rough leading the smooth, as human as a machine. If this is confusing, a few listens to this album won't help much. If you understand, then the songs within can be gratifying. Just pray they don't make the cover of Rolling Stone. At Proctor's This fantastic little show has grown from an intimate, personal musical ito an important road show, complete with a 17 -piece orchestra and chorus, spectacular new sets and costumes. And, to top it ali off, this 30th Anniversary Tour has the added allure of starring the very talented baritone, Robert Goulet. In between its debut in New York City's Sullivan Street T.heatre, ~here it's still playing 30 years after its opening mght curtain, THE FANTASTICS has rolled up an impressive total of 12,000 productions in 64 countries (and at least that many performances in the Sullivan Street Theatre alone). It also has the distinction of being the longest running production of any kind in the history of American Theatre. T~e company's 30 year milestone production manages to retam all of the magical quality of the timeless tale of love -- with all its illusion, disillusionment, and romance -- and it is enhanced by Goulet singing such beautiful and timeless ballads as \Try to Remembr,\ \Soon It's Gonna Rain\ and \I Can See It.\ G~ulet, himself, is celebrating an anniversary of sorts, for it w.as Just 30 ~ears ago that he first took Broadway by storm as Srr Lancelot m Lerner and Lowe's smash hit \Camelot.\ He followed that with equally impressive performances in \Kiss Me Kate,\ \Brigadoon\ and \Carousel in addition to scores of radio and TV shows, movies, concerts, recordings and, of course, the legitimate stage. His appearance as Emile de Becque in the national tour of South Pacific last year became that season's most successful touring show nationwide. Goulet's smooth, rich bass baritone is just right for the dual roles of The Narrator and The abductor, El Gallo, and the rest of the cast are equally superb in their respective roles. All in all, the show is a wonderful evening of theatre. In fact, you could even say, \it's fantastic.\ P~OCTOR'S: The Fantasticks ...... Oct. 30 through Nov. 4. Tickets: Tue.-Thu., Oct. 30-Nov. 1, 8 pm, $25,50, 20.50, 12.75 Fri., Nov. 2, 8 pm, $30,00, 24.00, 15.00 Sat.-Sun, Nov. 3-4, 2 pm, $20.50, 16.50, 10.25 Sat., Nov. 3, 8 pm, $30.00, 24.00, 15.00 Sun., Nov. 4, 7 pm, $25.50, 20.50, 12.75 a::::::=m:::::::::::a::::::s:::::::::::St::~ ' - \ • $ ' I. 1-• ,J l • ~ t ..;. J \ ~ .- ' ' ... !....· ,.,. 1 \.. ... , -.,. .... , -·- ~ • ,. •- ·o ~ • • ~ • • o • o • • • • • • • • • • ~ • • '• •. -\ • •- • • •· • • . ~ - -- o • • • - •• • • o • • • • • • • • • • •• • • • • • • o •- • _I

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS CLUBS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES NEWMAN SUPPERS- Tuesday, October 30th at 5 p.m. in CC203 Professor Stephen M. Berk, Chair of the History Department and respected scholar on Jewish History and the Holocaust will Rubes® ~ be guest for supper and conversation. Use meal card, or 'bring your own supper. All ~elcome. JlAL.LOWEEN VISIT TO GLENDALE NURSING HOME- Wednesday, October 31st please meet in costume at tll.e College Center Circle at 3 p.m. We will bring balloons . and return by 5 p.m. Transportation provided. All wekome to visit residents of this County Nursing Home. DE MELLO WORK- SHOP/RETREAT DAY- Saturday, November 3rd in the Library of St. John the Evangelist from 9:30 a.m. till 4:00 p.m. Sr. Joan will facilitate a video presentation of a retreat given by Fr. Tony De Mello, SJ. \A Rediscovery of Life\. He challenged young ~ . By an unfortunate coincidence, the explorer·~ ! .__:~:..__ _________ ___, greeting translated into something along the llnesJ The special breed raised exclusively L:..-L:.........:L--.A.-_L.LLL.l.--LIL-.dlill of \I'm quite tender and juicy, so d•g in, lellasr· lor McDonald's Happy Meal. Occupational hazards ol a door-lo·door cutlery salesman. Weekly Crossword \BE WITCHED\ ACROSS 1 Witches' concoction 5 Witches' spells 10 Speckles 14 Rant and rave 15 Pleasant scent 16 Zenith 17 Witches' friend: 2 wds 19 Capital of Latvia 20 Slay: In Paris 21 Witches' pet: 2 wds 23 Duck soup 26 Seth's son 27 Orthodontist's org. Bv Gerrv Frev - \' . 30 Rock star Ant and others !--,-,--l--l----l~+-- 32 Greek letter 36 Witches' plant? 38 Welled up 39 Celebes ox 40 Capital of Western Australia 42 Computer fodder 43 Marquis' personality 45 Witches' closet companion 47 Dolly Parton 9 to 5 role 48 Dinah or Jersey 49 Yoko __ 50 Scarlet's house 52 Utah state flower 54 60's musical 58 Dance gracefully 62 Amongst 63 Costumed witches' halloween route 66 \I Remember_\ 67 _Reed Show 68 James 69 Quarry 70 Slammin' Sammy 71 Charlotte, Norma and others DOWN 1 Rabbit 2 Excellent review 3 Yalies? 4 Raised red marks 5 Precedes \TIST\: Religion 6 Mr. Onassis 7 Man's name 8 Author Zola and others 9 Red halloween disguise 10 Witches' rouge?: 2 wds 11 Pertaining to the ear 12 Halloween costume roman style 13 Lover's quarrel 18 French legislative body 22 _d' Azur: French Riviera 24 Proficient 25 Peel 27 Accumulate 28 Mr. Chips portrayer Robert 29 Battery terminal 31 Swamp 33 Muse of love poetry 34 Grand __ : Nat' I Park 35 Bell town 37 Hallowed eve follower with 41 Boxing refs. decisions 44 Halloween window applique 46 \--My Eggo\: TV Waffle commercial 48 Western barroom 51 Comedian Fo:xx and other.; 53 More seasoned 54 British umbrella 55 The tent maker 56 \Brother can you spare a __ ?\ 57 somary 59 Tiny speck 60 Foolishly fond with \on\ 61 Baseball slats 64 Genetic substance 65 Smidgen \All\: 2 wds 38 Not here! © 1990 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved PO. Box 9104. Schenectady. N.Y. 12309 and old alike to \let go and live,\ let go of conflict, anxiety, tension, pressure, emptiness, loneliness, sadness, and to come back to life. No fee just bring a brown bag lunch. Beverages will be provided. All Union students and parishioners of St. John's are welcome. ACOLYTE/ALTAR SERVERS-Any Union student (male or female) who wishes to serve as an acolyte or altar server at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please contact Father Tom Zelker 372-3381. FOLK GROUP-Singers and musicians interested in being part of the music ministry at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30p.m. in St. John's Church to rehearse. TUTORING-Union students who are interested in tutoring please contact Barbara Cash, Box 279, Tel: 386:4181. DE MELLO PROGRAM-On Tuesday, October 30th at St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are welcome to attend an audio cassette program \Wake Up to Life\ by Anthony de Mello, S.J., author of many books on spirituality and until his untimely death in 1987 director of the Sadhana Institute of Pastoral Counseling near Poona, India. Sister Joan is the facilitator. BIBLE STUDY/PRAYER GROUP-On Tuesday, October 30th from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's School Library Sister Joan will facilitate a study of the Book of Exodus from the Old Testament. All are welcome. CLASSIFIEDS Travel Free ! Quality vacations to exotic destinations! The most affordable spring break packages to Jamaica and Cancun. Fastest way to free travel and $$$. Call Sun .. Splash Tours. 1-800-426-7710. Is your fraternity, sorority or dub inteFested in earning $500 to $1,500 one- week, on-campus marketing project? You must be well- organized and hard working. Call Elizabeth U. at (800) 592- 2121. Addressers Wanted Immediately! No experience necessary, excellent pay! Work at home. Call Toll Free 1-800- 395-3283. Jeep For Sale. 1987 Black Jeep Wrangler in excellent condition (specs) 6 cyl., brand new Tan soft top, semi-hard doors. Blaupunkt radio. Price negotiable. Contact Box #1707. Caribbean trip by National Science Foundation, 2-6 credits from N.C. State U., 1-2 weeks in Dec., May or August. Call Prof. Kimberly (919) 737- 7831. Free Spring Break Trips to Cancun and the Bahamas. Organize a small group and you travel free. Call 1-(800)- 344-8360 for more information. IN THE COLLEGE CENTER THURSDAY,OCTOBER25 11:30-1:00 PM CCAUD The Minerva Hour Presents: Ziva N. Benderly \Ellis Island Restoration• 3:00-5:00 PM CC203&204 Big brothers/sisters drop in meeting 3:30-5:30 PM CCAUD Multi-cultural Weekend registration FRIDAY, OCTOBER 26 2:00-5:00 PM CCAUD Multi-cultural workshop panel 6:00-8:00 PM CC204 latin American Dinner 7:30 PM CC302 Coffeehouse !3&10:QO PM CCAUD Movie: \Revenge\ SATURDAY,OCTOBER27 8:00&10:30 PM CCAUD Movie: \Revenge\ SUNDAY, OCTOBER 28 8:00&10:30 PM CCAUD Movie: \Revenge• MONDAY, OCTOBER 29 7:00-8:00 PM CC409 SPAA Meeting 7:30-10:00 PM I)C406 Modern Language Film Series TUESDAY, OCTOBER 30 5:00-6:30 CC203 Newman Supper 7:00-8:00 PM CC302 Dramatic Reading Series: Hickok House Presents: Stage Directions by Israel Horovitz WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 31 7:30&9:30 CCAUD Movie: \Psycho\ THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 1 10:30-1 :00 PM CCAUD The Minerva Hour Presents: Murray J. Howard \Restoration of Thomas Jefferson's Academical Village at The University of Virginia\ 3:00-5:00 PM CC204 Big brothers/sisters Drop-in meeting] 7:30-8:30 PM CC203 ASU Meeting 8:00 PM CC302 Cabaret I '. !

I~ r I !· l I, '• I CONCORDIENSIS, October 25, 1990 Page lS Lynn Hyde and Kristen Neibergs Combin·e For Half of Field Hockey Team's Offense By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor The Union Field Hockey Team lost more than just a 4-3 decision to St. Lawrence this past Saturday. They also lost their chance at a fifth consecutive post .. season playoff berth. But as the season came to a disheartening end, the outstanding and consistent play of senior Lynn Hyde and junior Kirstin Neibergs cannot go unnoticed. They both played through stellar seasons, and their efforts, game in and game out, have earned them each a share of The Concordiensis Athlete of the Week Award. In her fourth season as a varsity letter winner, Hyde finished second on the team in scoring with four goals and four assists. Last year, she led the Lady Dutchmen with five goals and three assists. The prospects of Hyde winning post-season honors looks good again-- as a sophomore she was named a 2nd Team Mid- Atlantic All-American, and as a junior Hyde was 2nd Team All- State as well as an Academic All-American. Hyde finishes tl! out her career at Union with 24 goals and 10 assists for a total of 34 points. Men's Soccer ... continued from .page ~6 to Williams to try and re- establish their hard-earned .500 record. Without Reaman and Haas, the task proved to be a difficult one. Once again, the Union eleven rose to the occasion only to be daunted in the final moments. Union got off to an early 1-0 lead on a blistering 25-yard drive from Epstein. The play resulted when Nosal hit a pass to his teammate, who turned and fired the shot. Williams responded quickly, getting two goals back in 15 minutes, to maintain a 2-1 halftime lead. In the second, . Union fell behind by two with miscommunication between goalie Soda Popper and his defenders. Then something amazing happened-- Union came back. The team started to get off good shots, and Williams' confidence appeared shaken. The result of this was Epstein scoring another big goal (fourth of the year) and shortly after, hitting the cross- bar. With under 15 minutes remaining, Keith Ward hit a Neibergs led the team in scoring this season after not recording a point in her first letter-winning season last year. She tallied eleven goals and added one assist in 15 games this year. In one amazing game, Union outshot RPI by an unvelieable 82-3 margin en route to scoring the most goals in a game in over a decade, and Neibergs scored four goals on ten shots as Union won, 10-1.. In the fmal game against St. Lawrence. where a Union victory would have propetled them into the playoffs, Hyde scored Union's first two goals, the second giving the Lady Dutchmen a 2-1 lead early in the second ·half. However, St. Lawrence scored three quick goals to take the lead for good. This past season brought many good efforts from the members of the Union Field Hocikey Team. However, none outshone those of Lynn Hyde and Kristin Neibergs. Congratulations on a great career to Hyde, and good luck next season to Neibergs, this week's co-recipients of The Concordiensis Sports Athlete of the Week Award. hard shot to the left of the Williams keeper, which hit the post and was knocked in by frosh \Give me a break\ Oleson. It was 3-3 and Union was headed for overtime. Unfortunately, fatigue again set in. Union held off Williams in the first 15, and for 14 in the second. On a Williams' comer, a scramble in front of the Dutchman goal resulted in Popper sprawling in vain at the ball which had \found\ its way into the net. Despite a desperate flurry, Union went home 4-3 losers. CONCORDI!ENSIS SPORTS (Ql~ rE$ir ~ (Q)INJ (O)[F 1rfHHE W lE rE~ 1 0 N .F .L. teams have not made the SupEfrbowl. Name them. 'lhti~~..-- 11M(O)JI mxolKillW@Dfjj IPD7lil£ on.,. ¥!inner shall be chosen from all (Orrect !&ntries. Submit entries to BOX 212 no later than 5:00 on the Monday after eoach issue of Concordiensis. • Last Weeks's Ansvver: Lendl, Gref, Gomez/ Seles Edberg, Navratilova, Samprass, and ~abat1ni. L.ast week's W1nner: CORV LAI Mouth.ing Oft David Defeats Goliath, Again By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor The baseball season is over and the Oakland A's (they don't deserve to be called the 'Athletics' because of the perfonnance they gave during the World Series) are not the champions of the Baseball World. It seems to me that many sportswriters and sportscasters and fans were totally shocked that this dynasty, this giant, this Goliath, lost another one. But why? Sure, the A's (not the Athletics- remember, they don't deserve it) have a great team. But a collection of great players does not mean they they must win. I think that one of the reasons that the A's have what seems to be such a great team is because a great deal of the competition they play stinks. The American League does not. have as many competitive teams as the National, and this enables a solid club like the A's to win over 100 games for three consecutive seasons. You don't have to look any fwther than to see what the A's did to the Yankees this season. Oakland took all 14 games the teams played and when you add to that the fact that the American League East as a whole was terrible, top to bottom, it seems obvious why the A's record was so overblown. People have said that the A's lost the 1988 World Series to the Dodgeers because they ran into a hot pitcher in Orel Hershiser. They are right-- they did. But the Cincinnati Reds ran into a couple of 'hot' pitchers by the names of Dave Stewart and Bob Welch. The two combined for 51 victories, almost half their club's total for the entire season, but Welch lost once, Stewart twice. They were hot pitchers cooled off by a confident team of individuals who were not basking in the glorification of their personal statistics. If the Reds could cool off Stewart and Welch, why were the A's not able to cool off Hershiser. And even if they couldn't have cooled him off,· he could not have pitched in all seven games of the World Series. At most he would have pitched in three, and the A's could have made the most of that opportunity. But, they didn't. The Reds don't have any players like the overpaid $5 million a year Jose Canseco, a guy who makes sure everybody realizes how much money he makes, even if he did hit only three home runs in his team's final 50 games of the year. The Reds are a solid team from top to bottom, composed in such a. way that the top one day can be the bottom the next. The fight to stay in the lineup and to play every day keeps the level of performance at its highest because the threat of leaving the lineup and sitting on the bench looms long for every player. Individual success and inflated personal egos do not get in the way of on-the-field perfonnance. In Oakland, the lineup is the same. Jose might screw around and hit the skids, but he'll play. He has to play because he is making too much money not to play. The guy sitting on the bench behind him knows that Jose is going to play, so his fire to get into the lineup is exting!lished. Oakland, obviously, is not invincible. They are not even a dynasty. They might have won three consecutive American League Championships, but it is the titles that have eluded their grasp that have cost them their chance at immortality and that place in history they so desire. Instead, they're in that other place in history, alongside of Goliath. It has been a surprise that the A's have now lost twice in the World Series. But if only we hadn't so over-estimated their ability to play as a team and to win as a team. If we had not done that, we would not have been surprised, and maybe we would have realized that the mighty Oakland Athletics were just the plain old Oakland A's. Maybe then we could give the Los Angeles Dodgers and Cincinnati Reds some of the credit they deserve for beating the A's instead of wondering how the A's could have beaten themselves, twice. Write For Sports Call Andy at 381-4651 -

lt\s Hockey time ~~.~ear again. Come cheer on the Skating Dutchmen as they_ play an exhtb11:1on against U. Conn this saturday night at 7·30 · Achilles Rink. · • m October 25, 1990 ' I Alex Felipe had reason to celebrate as he and Viad~mlr Telemaque combl:ned for 212 yards rush1ng In Union's victory over Coast Guard. Men's Soccer Continues Improvement Dutchmen Beach Coast Guard Final Home Game Saturday Against Gettysburg By FRIEDS This past week's results showed something the Dutchmen haven't seen since the first game of the season-- a .500 record. After dropping notorious games to the likes of Hamilton, Skidmore, and Vassar, Union proved that when the big games come around, they are as good as anyone. The highly touted University of Rochester paid Schenectady a visit last week, sporting a post-season bid already, though the season is hardly finished. The Dutchmen proveC' up to the task, however, ano through some incredible teamwork, pulled off a 1-0 victory. Throughout the first half, Union escaped some dangerous chances while providing occasional highlights on offense. Of note was a near miss by Adam Epstein on a free kick from 22 yards out. The ball sailed narrowly over the crossbar. Striking play was provided in the half by none other than Tim Walsh and Don \Corleon\ Hodson. In the second half, a cominuance of the see-saw play combined with much heckling from the Union faithful, provided much of the entertainment until frosh Jeff Mela provided some heroics. Hustling after a long ball in the Rochester end, he intercepted a bounding pass back to the goalie, heading it past him and finishing into the open goal. Union staved off several Rochester chances in the late going, but held back the floodgates and raised their record to 4-4-1. Oh, but how fast the glory passes. The team then began a four-game road trip, beginning at the other Rochester post- season favorite, R.I. T. Union faced an uphill battle from the start, as early in the game they lost captain Eric Reaman (knee) and senior Davvy Haas (thigh) to injuries. Super-sub Jed Nosal helped fill the void, however, and Union at times looked pretty good. Eric Crsssman and Mela created several scoring chances, resulting in a Mela goal, to give Union a 1-0 lead. The lead wasn't meant to be, however. In the second half > R.I.T. assaulted the Dutchman goal, and had several near misses on head balls. They scored the equalizer, but thanks to some rallied play in the Dutchman ranks, were unable to put in another in regulation. In the overtime, however, the Union injuries became apparent, as the depleted bench resulted in fatigued play. R.I.T. put in a goal, and went home a winner. Union's three-game winning streak was over. On Tuesday, Union travelled Continued on page 15 By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chief The Union running game showed its real worth as it ground out 235 yards to lead the Dutchmen past Coast Guard, 17-3, before a crowd of 2,900 at Frank Bailey Field. The victory improved Union's record to 5-1. The passing game, just 4 of 11 for 29 yards and two interceptions, struggled as three different quarterbacks took turns under center. Brian Harris, a freshman, started the game in place of Brett Russ, who was sidelined with a hamstring injury. Another freshman, Chad Stoffer, would start the second half before Russ returned in the late stages of the third quarter to help engineer a long Union drive that put the game out of reach. Russ was listed before the game as out with little or no chance of seeing duty. But an early knee injury to Harris rendered him ineffective in the first half. Union led, 7-0, at halftime. Stoffer started the second half and did a more than respectable job-- including completion of two crucial third down passes. But Stoffer had some trouble on several exchanges with center Dom Ricciardi, and head coach AI Bagnoli went to a rotation where Russ would take SPORTSWEEK Friday, October 26 Men's Soccer Saturday, October Football Men's Soccer Volleyball x-Country at St. Lawrence 27 vs. Gettysburg at Clarkson at Skidmore Tourney at State meet Tuesday, October 30 Men's Soccer vs. Manhattanvi lie 3:00 1:30 11 :00 9:00 12:00 2:30 the first and second down snaps running game would have made and Stoffer would enter the life a little easier for any game on third downs. , quarterback Most of the time it made Alex Felipe rushed for 117 little difference who was yards on 23 carries,and calling the signals, though. Vladimir Telemaque picked up That's because the consistency 95 yards on 24 chances. and dominance of the Union Fullback Tom Lombardoni NCAA Division Ill Poll MISSION, Kan. -- The top teams from each region in the NCAA Division Ill football poll with reco<ds through Sarurday: East Region 1. Hofstra, 7 -o 2. Cortland St., 7-0 3. Ramapo, 7-0 4. Ithaca, e-1 5. Plymouth SL, 6-1 6. Glassboro SL, 6-1 North Region 1. Dayton, 7·0 2. Millikin, II., s.o (tie) Mount Union, 7-Q 4. Ohio Wesleyan, 7-0 5. Allegheny, S.0-1 6. Baldwin-Wallace, s-1 South Region 1. Ferrum, s-o 2. Washington & Jefferson 7-0 3. Froslburg. St., 7-0 • 4. Lycoming, e-o 5. Carnegie-Mellon, 7·0 6. Rhodes, 5-1 West Raglan 1. Wisconsin-Whitewater 7-0 2. Wartburg, HI ' 3. Concordia, Minn., s-1 4. Central, Iowa, s-1 5. Bethel, Minn., 6-1 6. Redlands, 5-1 The top four teams from each region (!Uallfy for the NCAA OiVJSI[)n 111 Playoffs. chipped in with 26 yards on 5 carries, including a 10-yard run on a third and nine play in Coast Guard territory that set up a Dutchman touchdown. For the game, Union kept the ball on the ground for 58 of 69 plays. In addition to the powerful running attack, Union sported a defense that was equally unforgiving. Three times Coast Guard had the ball inside the Union 20-yard line-- twice in goal-to-go situations-- and all the Bears could manage was a 25-yard field goal. The Dutchmen host Gettysburg at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday. After that, Union will close out the season with road games at Norwich and Hamilton. SCOREBOARD October 20 20 23 17 20 17 19 20 20 23 Football (5·1) UNION 17 vs. Coast Guard 3 Men's Soccer (4·6·1) UNION 1 at RIT 2 OT UNION 3 at Williams 4 OT Field Hockey (6·7a2) UNION 1 at Siena 0 UNION 3 at St. Lawrence 4 Women's UNIONO UNIONO UNION2 Soccer (5-10) at Albany St. 2 vs. RPI1 at Oneonta 6 OT Volleyball (15·17) UNION at Binghamton Tourney UN10N2 UNION 1 lost 4 matches at Russell Sage 0 w/Oneonta 2 Cross Country 20 UNION at Albany lnvy Men 19of 20 Women 16 of 19 w/556 Points w/418 Points

