lege 1877 . ' Vol. CXIX, No~ 11 Schenectady, New York February 1, 1990 Camp Union Cancelled for 1990? By ELISl~ :F()ODY News Edi1or Tile writing on the wall ccrrldn't have been any clearer for the student body. The fate of Camp Union, the College's biggest social' event of the year, was in dire straits. At the so-called \Meeting of the Minds\ held Jan\Lary 24 in the S1urlent Activities room of the College Center, Dean Mammola handed down the fo1lowing verdict: \Camp Union cannot continue as we have known it. We must change the nature. of the event radically~\ Among those .present at the meeting included Lorraine Marra, · Director of Student Activities; Lee Eloomrosen, Director Qf the College Center and several members of the individual sprillg term social committees. These committees included Camp Union Committee, _Fitz:hugh Com- mittee, Concert Committee, Social· Alternatives Committee and the Finance Committee, as well as representatives from. the Panhellenic Council, InterFraternity C()uncil and the Delta Gamma Sorority (which is responsible fo.r the Spring Olympics competition). At the meeting. Dean Mammola, wllo spoke on behalf of the Administration. expressed strong ~oncern about the implications of the recent drinking law passed in New York State. The effects of the law could prove extremely detrimental to the campus because · not only would Schenectady police be on hand during the festivities, but they would also be obliged to arrest minors with alcohol in their possession. Dean Mammola stated that for the most part the College \has looked the other way in the past,\ but that it must now addr~ss the issue head on. The Administration also . expressed concern over the fact that many residents of Schenectady invite themselves onto the campus during this time and partake in many of the scheduled events. Dean Mammola stated that \the College is not throwing a party for alumni of tile College or for the people of Schenectady ... it is a party for the .student body only.\ He also mentioned that the name \Camp Union\ must be changed so that the students can create something different for themselves. . At this point in the meeting, those students present were given the opportunity to discuss possible solutions or alternatives to the new problem o.f Camp Union. The Administration at the time had no concrete Jllans to solve for the changes that would be necessary. However. in · approximately two weeks another meeting is scheduled to take place at which Dean Mammola will present a set of guidelines as to what will or will not be permitted. The College has allotted nearly $76,000 for social events scheduled during Spring Term. The budgets of the · Social Alternatives Committee · and the Concert Committee make up the bulk of this · money. Suggestions made to replace Camp Union included holding several smaller events . more frequently. Some people suggested hosting more comedians and holding concerts at the football field rather than · West College in an attempt to keep outsiders away from College grounds. Lawyers for the College have advised the Administration to abolish all drinking on campus. While the . Administrati!>n realizes that students need social activities during spring term, they also realize the problems that would evolve should Camp Union (as · students have been accustomed to it in the past) take place. In the meantime, alternatives to the event are waiting to be discussed. Hazing Seminar Stresses Need .For Change Uy JAY FREELAND News Editor Last week, Fraternity and Sorority pledges and officers . attended a video-taped lecture by speaker Will Keirn concerning hazing and overall Greek behavior. The talk was aimed at heightening awareness among Greeks with a special emphasis being placed upon the pledges of (Inion College. At 7:30 p.m; la&t Thursday in the College Center . ·auditorium. a full house viewed a I ive tape of a lecture given lasl spring while Keirn was touring the United States. Union had been one of Keirn's stops along the way. Keirn, a Greek member himself, tours the country on a virtual full-time basis in order to better the name of Fraternities and Sororities and to I et Greek organizations know how to help in the process. Having graduated from college only a few years back, Keim is still very in touch with . the Greek situation throughout the Nation's college campuses. Keirn stressed the good points of Greek organizations suclt as the fact that they are 011c of the top charity donators each year. He also listed statistics on famous Greeks which included many current members of Congress, the business world, the entertainment world, and almost half of the past United States Presidents (such as Kennedy and Roosevelt). Keirn also stressed the areas needing change and placed a special emphasis on date rape giving a statistic that nine out of ten gang rapes. occur either during or after Greek social functions. He gave examples of ways to improve and made case scenarios in which he pulled a mule from the videotaped audience and asked him to im!lgine his sister in the above situation. would accept it. He proved his point by stating that hazing is outlawed by every national Fraternity and Sorority and that all it takes is one incident for a Greek organization to lose its house and face criminal charges. Keirn urged that any organizations still involved in the hazing process to stop. He stated that in actuality, each incident not only affects that organization, bllt that it leaves a dark spot on the entire Greek system as a whole. One question he did raise was how Greeks could allow hazing to continue despite the danger involved. It is interesting to note that part of the problem may begin with students before they even get to college. Last Friday, Concordien~is learned of a- situation at a prominent prep school where hazing still occurs between freshmen and seniors. One incident noted involved a freshman being hanged from a ttl\e and hit with tennis racquets. The end result was that three of the seniors involved were immediately expelled from school. One of them had already been accepted at Harvard University and subsequently lost his acceptance. This incident relates to a statement of Keirn's that tradition is still one of the driving forces behind hazing. He also sta~ed that som.e traditions either change or they die. Students React Negatively to Academic Calendar Hy KAREN HURWITZ Recently, a survey conducted of the entire student body showed that over 90% (of the 30% of the student body who returned the survey) were against the changes that have been made in the 1990-1991 Academic calendar. Those changes include: Classes beginning on September 19, Thanksgiving recess from November 21-25, classes ending November 30, fall term exams beginning December 3, exams ending December 7, and finally winter recess December 8 through January 6. According to the Academic Affairs Council, the reason for the changes is that the faculty The 1990-1991 Calendar, however proves to be \an obvious disregard of ahe the students' wishes,\ said David Cohen, President of the Student Forum. members need a longer summer vacation to do necessary research for the academic year. The 1990~ 1991 calendar, however, proves to be \an obvious disregard of the students' wishes,\ said David Cohen, President of the Student Forum. The students who did return the surveys said they were opposed to the changes because the new calendar breaks up the intense ten week term, they don't want to return after Thanksgiving for one week of classes followed by exams, and many students will be unable to go home for Continued on page 3 Keirn's final area involved hazing. He mentioned the basic fact that the pledge, in essence. has the most control in a Greek organization. Keirn stressed that pledges can say \no'' to any action they feel dangerous and that any Greek organization Photo of the Week: 48 days until Spring Break!

Page 2 CONCORDJENSIS, February 1, 1990 <llnttntrbitnsts NEWS ANALYSIS 6€tJ~eA L MArJ l.l\:;. \.. N01~JE£A By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, J'R. It is difficult to find a kind word to say of Man11el Noriega. especially now that he is safely in U.S. custody. Operation Just Cause accomplished all of the goals it set out to do (much to the ch~grin of Dan Rather,- I gather), and despite all the quibbles from the opposittion, there can be little truth to support that the United States acted, as some would say, \imperialistic.\ Reflections Of A Pi.neapple Noriega, for all the letters: he sent to American schoolchildren, is a drug dealing thug, who is responsible for many m (:)re deaths than inspiring notes, Of course, this remains to be seen, th.rough the proper channels of Law, but so does the theory of relativity (Sorry, Al, I still dig your name). Not only {fid Noriega murder and push drugs, but when he could not will an election fairly, he had to cheat. Democracy tried. and democracy was squashed .. As the defender of democracy, the U.S. had an obligation to grab the punk. Democracy now (hopefully, for tl1e Panamanians' sake) has The pop11lar sup.port by the people of Panama and the United States is a furtb.er indication that Just Cause was the right move. a chance in troubled Panama. True, a substantial mess was made of tile countryside and cities, but the promised U.S. M.ilitary Policy Misdirected eliminated. Also, Mr. Cheney wants to cut Air Force tactical fighter wings from 36 to 3·1. The total effect would be to reduce the number of personnel in the armed forces to its lowest lev.el in 40 years. On the other hand, Cheney wants to preserve the nuclear weapons research 011 the Stealth bomber and \Star Wars\. Cheney wants to increase funds for the Stealth bomber, which costs $500 million each. As well, Cheney wants to increase funding for \Star Wars\ by $900 million. By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager Th.e hudget proposals are in and the loser is the American security as well as that of the NATO allies. Dick Cheney, Secretary of Defense, proposed cutting two active _anrry divisions, the Second Armored Division at Fort Hood, Tex.as and the Ninth Infantry Division at Fort Lewis, Washington. As well, if arms control efforts succeed, additjonal active artd two reserve divisions would be The buildup of the nuclear arms and the reduction of conventional forces is coming at a time when the threat from American aid, along with a police force which is on guard for the time beineg·. will help the Ende.ra government establish itself. Panama can be rebuilt without the threat of looting by the opportunists in the region. In the aftershock within our own borders, it may appear that 'the gringos. won't leave,' but the military's presence is clearly in Panama's best interests-. What if, now that the thugs have :been thoroughly removed, the private citizens of Panama were abandoned? One does not have to eat tortillas .to understand Ortega. The popuiar support by the people of Panama and the United States is a further indication that Just Cause was the right move. While 'the World condemned it,' they certainly did little when President Endera was beaten over the head after his electoral victory last May. Where was Peristroika then? How about that, at least, Dan 'the man' Rather? Detractors made a point in affirming that the U.S. invaded while aware that other ppwers had no chance of preventing it. However, this is the Soviet Union is the least it has been in 40 years, Cheney is looking in the wrong place for cuts. The reduction of the Soviet threat reduces the need The nuclear forces are not the wave of the future. The United States needs special forces designed to fight a conventional war in different parts of the world. for nuclear forces and increases the need for conventional personnel. The threats that are coming to the United States, in the future, will require the no argument. Who cares? The Soviet~ cling to their way of life, and we .to ours. Who's right? Who'·s wrong? Who knows? The United States is the greatest country on this Ea:11th, and if it chooses to liberate an endentured people, which desire it,. then to hell wi& world opinion. If others 'disapprove.' maybe we should cut off their aid. (Imperialist? ' s· . --? . ) yes., enous .... no . A military solution should always be, as_ was here, a final sol11tion. President Bush was quite patient with Noriega. and took ail the proper channels {ecomomic sanctions, warnings, threats without action) before he made the decision to invade on the basis qf the wishes of the Panamanian people. Please also remember, that public opinion favGred- action when last May's fiasco mushroomed. Bush, the diplomat, however, waited. The press once called him a wimp; and now they call him a bully. Strange group. Hats off to you, Mr. President, because both democracy and you won. And hats off to you too, Manuel, because you lost. On that, we ali should agree. United States to react with conventional forces. This has been demonstrated in Panama. The nuclear forces. are not the wave of the future. The United States needs special forces designed to figllt. a conventional war in different parts of the world. Nuclear forces have caused the Soviet Union to go to the bargaining table. But, now ·that they are there, we should reduce tne building of nuclear weapons and increase the conventional part of the military. The need for conventional forces is increasing and Dick Cheney is moving away from the real need of the United States. Censorship Increases As Schools Adopt Paternal Policies During a year when Americans have hailed the increased freedoms won by the citizens of Eastern Eurpoean countries, especially in the area of freedom of expresssion, that same freedom has been eroded on college campuses as administrators seek a greater role in governing student thought and behavior outside the classroom. The Student Press Law Center (SPLC), a group that monitors censorship of tile student press and provides legal advice to the student media, points to a significant rise in cases of actual or threatened censorship over the last year. Mark Goodman, SPLC's executive director, says that his office received 615 calls in 1989 from college editors seeking advice in re~ponding to actual or threatened censorship, an increase of 12% over 1988. According to Goodman and other observers of the stude11t: media, not only has there been an increase in the number ()f' censorship related incidents, but also a shift in the nature cf those incidents. Three new kinds of censorship emerged in 1989: - to curb alcohol administrators have restrictions on advertising; abuse, placed liquor - To defend their institutims• religious prindples, colleges have banned political advdertising advocating reproductive rights; and -to fight racial and sex11al harassment, sch.ools have created elaborate policies to define and proscribe spee~h considered offensive. These forms of censorship, Goodman says, have a C()rnmon thread. They are symptomatic of the growing trend toward a\new paternalism\ on campus. As Courtesy of NSNS administrators tum to the use of rules and regulations to promote and discourage various types of student speech and activity, they have pitted concerns over alcohol abuse, racism and sexism against concerns over intellectual freedom and free speech. \College administrators are more paternalistic today than a few years agb,\ Goodman says. In the past when problems arose, adlllinistratots would usually use them as a way to educate stuodents. \Today the response is to actually slap editors' hands or take away the avenue of expression,\ Goodman says. A recen·t study conducted at George Mas:on University (VA) .and West Chester University (PA) shows a \clear strong trend\ among colleges toward adopting tougher alcohol abuse policies. As alcohol abuse has gained increasing attention, students, college administrators and state and federal legislators all have sought ways of combatting this problem with varying degrees of success. These efforts took a new foiin October3rd when U.S. Senator Jeff Bingaman (D-NM) proposed legislation that could · be used to ban any advertisement from college newspapers that \encourages consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under the state's legal drinking age.\ · Bingaman's proposal, introduced as an amendment to federal anti-drug legislation, was adopted unanimously by the Senate in late October, It - eventually was eliminated from the bill by the House and Senate conference committee, but Bingaman may· reintroduce it this session. Proposals like Bingaman's, as wen as those of former Surgeon General C. Everett Koop, who also fought to \eliminate alcohol advertising and promo~ions on college campuses,\ have reached a receptive audience among some college administrators. For example, the University -of Scr~ton (P A) a<\opted. a policy this fall that bans all alcobol advertising in the student newspaper, -The Aquinas. According to Keith Lanigan, managing editor of Aquinas, stuients contested the ban and scheduled a November 7th meeting with Vice President of Student Affairs James Bryan, the administrator responsible for the new policy. At the meeting, Aquinas editors negotiated a moratorium on the ban to develop their own policy for responsible alcohol advertising, but could not persuade Bryan to overturn the ban completely. Lanigan and others cw:rently are working on the new policy. : ! t I t l 1

.1'' f.· •t\'.',11 l-''t- f\\ . . CONCORDIENS1S, February 1, 1990 Page 3 Mather To Head College's -Business Campaign William J. Mather of Clifton · Park, ,president of the Schenectady-based Lawrence Agency Corp., has been named v0lunteer chairman ()f the 20th annual Union CoUege Business Campaign, -which was launched recently. Mather will be the first alumnus of the College to lead the campaign, which last year raised about $128,000 from the area business community to ~id the college. Mather received a bachelors 1 degree in economic~ from Union in 1959~. Anthony M. Salerno of , Albany; presi~'ent of G1enn Davis Co., Schenectady, is The College is adding $139.40 million directly and hidirectly to tlte Capit\l District econitmy. serving as the vice ch~irman of · the campaign. Pointing out . the·. contributions Union makes to · t:he community. Mather noted that the colleg~ is Schenectady · Cou.nty!s sixth largest employer. In addition. he said,, \the college provides ffi.any community services, such as the chamber music series, the football games and other sporting events, the summer institutes, and numerous lectures and plays. Union is a major contributor to the quality of life of our region.\ According to a study by a . Union College economist, the college is adding $139.40 . million directly an,d indirectly · Continued on page 4 College To Offer Non .. C'redit. Business Courses. Uniert College is a.cepting registration fQr non-credit business and professional courses i11 the winter-spring term. . Courses will be offered in the areas ·of management, comrnunication:s, marketing, finance and computer skills. Among them are classes on interviewing techniques for hiring the right person, leadership skills~ spea:king with confidence, writing for sales -- letters, proposals ancl requests for p.mposal s; IJersonal financial planning, investment and asset allocation, and dBase · and Lotus h2-3. Course dates • • and lengths vary. Certified public accountants • and public accountants licensed and in practice in .New York , State may meet continuing ·• .profe.ssional education • requirements t.hrough some of ,the courses. A free catalog of non-credit · courses is available from the : Nqn-Credit Program, Office of Graduate and Continuing : Studies, Wells House,. Union • CoUege, ·1 Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (370- 6638). Registration. may be made by mail, in person, by phone or by dropping a registration form Courses will be offered in the areas of management, communications, marketing, finance, and <:omputer s.kills. in the Wells House mail .slot. The office is open for in-person registration from 8:.30 a.m. to 6:30 p.m. Monday through Thursday and until 4:45 p.m. on Fridays. Visa and Mastercard will be accepted. Bowl For Kids' Sake Sunday, F~bruary 1 T ,is Big BroLhers/ Big Sisters Bowl For Kids' S$e Day, when Union College students arc invited to bowl to raise money for children. Big Brothers/Big S:istcrs matches children from single parent homes with adult volunteers. It's a very simple concept, according lO Executive Director Jay Eckenbcrger, yet one that has proved extremely effective. Only four percent of today's households represent the traditional family - a working father, a mother at home and two children, he reported. and 25% of all families are single parent ones. This growing number \can be expected to create a demand for Big Brother:s and Big Sisters where the need is already critical\. Bowl For Kids' Sake, · · conducted primarily to raise · money needed to support and administer the program, also enables the organization to draw more attention to its peoplc~s needs. That money, plus an allocation from United Way and support from the Division for Youth, helps Big Brothers/Big Sisters coiJtinuc to make matches and to supervise them; to counsel parents, volunteers and children when necessary; to offer activities and support for childten on the waiting list, to • operate a more intcusi \'C one- on-one program for youngsters needing adult companionship and many times, stronger supervision and guid<.~flcc; and to advocate for l1ettcr laws that protect children an~ better fulfill tJ1cir needs. Students intcrc sted in bowling at the February lith event at Boulevard Bowl at 1315 Eric Boulevard, SchenecLady may obtair1 pledge sheets from Big Brothers/Big Sistsers 374-4.523 or from the Union CoHe.ge caseworker Terry Andre on Wednesdays between 3:00 - 5:0() PM in Room 204 of the Campus Center. Bowling and refreshments arc free. Individuals can also qualify for a large range of prizes from movie passes and dining certificates to g~t-away weekends and. other trips. Prizes arc awarded based on Lhc amount of money turned in by bowlers. Every team fr<>rn a fraternity, sorority or ot.hcr social group will be eligible to win the travelling trophy which is presented to the group raising the most l110l1Cy. Currently Sigma Phi holds the trophy. Those interested in becoming a Big Brother or Big Sister may learn more about the program by contacting the agency at 374-4523 or stopping at Room 204 of the College Center, Wednesdays between 3:00 £tlld 5:0() PM. Ill Ill! , Continued from page 1 Despite the complaints of the student b<Jdy, the 1990- 1991 calc n<lar wi II go unchanged. This is because much of the school year has already bC\:n planned, induuiug all of the .sp()ning events. However, work is already in progress lo mak.c changes fur the 1991- I 992 calcn<lar _ The Student Forum hopes to work with the administration in creating a futmc ca1cndar that wi H meet both the needs of the faculty and the Union student body. 1f fill I.E ~ W fFirl cQ><G In AM ON lJJ 1M IIJ> rEUHGHJ! ~ W QB A 1T IE ~<t: 0 r.E N «:: IE [EID) lU «:: ~ 'f ~ CO> ~ Summer 1.990 Student Re~earch Opportunities A unique opportunity to gain research experience with a faculty mentor and work witlt students frcm other colleges and universities at one of the follo,ving institutions: .. BamardCollege • Hamilton College • Colgate. University • Manhattan College \ Corn..ell University • SaintLawrmce University • Union College 10 WEEK SUMMER PROGRAM $1.,0Cl0;00 STIPEND PLUS $500.0.0 TRAVEL/I'IOUSING EXPENSES FOR AN APPLICATION on FOR FURTHER DETAILS, CONTACT YOURlNSTlTtJTIONAL REPRES8N1' _A TIVE: ~,.,QA ~ \8:,=' .t t:fn..a'\t.A tM )C (.-..-,'):,3,;) I.....J Or call CORNELL UNlVERSITY 607-255-2710 Thanksgiving. These arc just a few af the problems. The first day of fall classes on September 19 is also a J cwish holiday, Rosh Hashanah. Also, the six. week vacation usually gives Union students the opportunity to obtain internships and good jobs over break, as well as senior thesis research, tri.lvel, and relaxation. The new crlcndar will prevent · ma11y of these opportunities for students. RESIDENT ADVISORS NEEDED (Summer job vacancies) SUMMER 1990 \THE COLLEGE EXPERIENCE\ Applications are now being accepted for Resident Advisors in Union's summer program for high school juniors and seniors, The College Experience, June 24 .. August 3, 1990. Salary includes room, board, tuition waiver for one course, and an additional stipend. Applications are due February 20. For further information and a job description contact: Janice Johnston Stevens Graduate Studies Wells House ext. 6675

Pa~:e 4 CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 School Enacts Smoking And Drinking ·Policies Courtesy of Public Relations The College bas issued its poHcies on smoking and underage drinking as a result of gre<1ter restrictions enacted into state law. Smoking: The following mles f<Jr smoking on campus are in force: --Smoking is permitted only in indoor areas designated by signs as smoking areas, in fully enclosed offices that are · not generally accessible to the CoUege community and the general public, and outdoors. --Smoking is prohibited in · aH other areas generally accessible to the College community and general public. · Ttiis includes, but is not limited to, hall ways, vestibules, lavatories, com- mollly shared work/office sites, ' au<litoriurns, classrooms, and all other places designated as non-smoking areas. Dl'inking; Permission to sponsor and host sooial events involving alcohol will be granted only to people who are at least 21 years ()ld and assum.e the responsibility for: ·-re.gistering the event with the Dean of Students' Office and the Office of Sec'l!ritj and Safety, if attendance will exceed 20 guests; --issuing invitations and ensuring that only invited guests attend; --adhering to state laws and College policies; --providing an attractive and substantial offering of non- alc()holic beverages and food~ --cleaning up the indoor facility and any refuse around the outside areas by 11 a.m. aftcrtJ1e event. · The following othei rules are in effect: --No student organization, club or society may use funds · coUected from members, Student Forum, alumni, etc., for purchasing or providing . · alcohol. No member may , coordinate the purchasing or • providing. of alcohol in the • name of the organization. Only ' individuals over 21 may sponsor an event at which alcohol is served. --Students or student organizations are not pennitted · • to arrange for alcohol to be · delivered by outside vendors or • distributors to the campus. --Registered private events · may take place on Friday and Saturday nights only between 4 . p.m. and 2 a.m. No such · events may take place after the ninth week of any academic term. --All outdoor events with live or recorded music may take place only between 4 p.m. and 7 p.m. on Fridays and between 1 . p.m. and 7 p.m. on Saturdays. (Such outdoor events are permitted only in the spring term.) Only one such event may be scheduled on campus per day. FACUL TV RESE.ARCH DEADLIN;E The subcouncil on Research and Grants is now ·Soliciting , proposals for faculty research and scholarship activities. Applications and guidelines are available in Dean Butte.rstein's. Office (81 00-S&E). The deadline for submission of proposals is Friday, February 16, 1990. Questions concerning the Faculty Research Fund should be • directed to Dean Butterstein. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $80.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. \~l\i <Satttttta Wel+a ll MEMORIAL SERVICE FOR SIMON FRANCIS 1 RICHARD NOTTIDGE J FEBRUARY 3 1 1990 7:00 P.M. Old Chapel, Union C.ollega Grounds Union Kicks .. Q·ff 2~0th An:nuaf Business ·F:undrais:er Continued from page 3 to the Capital District · economy in the 1989-90 · academic year. Besides Mather and Salerno, 17 other volunteer members of the commmunity are on the · campaigrfexecutive committee: Philip S. Arony, vice president. Key Bank, N .A.; John A. Braidwood, trust officer, Key Trust Co~; John E, Colley, senior vice president, Trustco Bank; Kenneth A. Dagostino, secretary/ treasUFer. Dagostino Building Blocks, Inc. · Also, John J. Endres Jr., · vice president and corporate conttoller, The Golub CQrp.; Elizabeth T. Salerno. assistant vice president, Marine Midland Bank; Kathy Se1£ridge of Scotia; Jay Shupe, account executive, Woodside/ Dorp Travel Agency Inc. Als(), Janice A. Smith, prQg!'~m manager, C.omllll!Dicati()ns and Public Affair1;, General Electric Co.; E. Jmdd Staley III, senior vice presidbnt and general manager, Nortbe:ast Savings; Timothy F. Tcbi11, :branch manager, First American Bank of New York. Aks(),. Richard A. Wilig, pre&iden t and chief exect~tive office, Willig & A.ss()ciates Inc .. ; John F. Flyn11, president, Schenectady YMCA; .Robert L. Harrison, diret:t()r of development, St, Clare'&: Hospital; Benjamin F. RoiUn<l, president, Jardine E.mett &. Chandler- Capital Distri¢:t 1 · Al:So, John T. Zelinsky, pres.ident Interiors N E~uipm.ent; and Thomas ' P(litras, manager of quality control, 1'rustco Bank. DIRECTOR -BOYS CHOIR OF HARLEM DR. WALTER TU'R'NBULL SPEAKS AT UNION COLLEGE AUDITORIUM FEBRUARY 8, 1990 4:30P.M. \MAKING·A DIFF:ERENCE\ SPONSORED BY OFFICE OflHEDEAN OF STUDENTS BLACK AND LATIN ALUANCE OF STUDENTS Co nco rdie nsi:;. OFRCE OF RESIDENCE LIFE EXPANDED 1990-91 COMMONTlliEf;1E HOUSING ln1erested in a new way of living? lihe Office o.f Residence Lite inv:ites students to propose new r13slidential groups combining living anq learning in Common-Theme Co-Ed Housing for 1990·91. Proposals must dl;lmonstrate an ,Integral collli\ ection to the academic program of the Colle.ge and show how the group's living. together will ;:Jrornote the personal .. social, and espac:iaily intellectual growth of ,ts members and the College community. A. primary goal of E)ach group will be to .promote sfudent-facu.ltY\ interaction outside the c:assroom and to en baoce the intellectllal life of the campus. A typical group will be fairly represBntatiwe oi all class yeats. More comp!et~ detalfs ar~ available at the O:ffice oi Residence Life, .Room ·405. College Center. . ~

By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor Rumor has it tha~ Union · College students arc apathetic .. Yet, the campus was all but silent :when Delta Chi lost their .house, when the decision not to sh0w a pornographic film was made and. wh(m recent changes in the social policy were implemented. Even a change in the academic calendar was met with angry voices. It seems ob:vious ·that Union students ttrc neither too lazy not too passiv~ to voice their opinions wh~r te issues .at band have a direct impact on their lives. This would lead one to believe that our safety, or lack of it,. should be the foremost topic of concern. No {)DC Should\})ave tO live in fear - fear of walking across campus, fear of. walking from the library to Cameige for a quick study break ol' fear of walking from one's car parked in the lot behind the gym to the weight room. There is a limit to what we CONCORDJENSIS, Fe/Jruary 1, 1990 Let Us Not· Be The Victims . ' as students can do to protect ourselves and others, but we Imve certainly not reached it. We have been warned not to walk alone after dark, (Many of us confuse dark and late; the two are not synonymous. It becomes dark at five o'clock these days which is definately not late by Union's standards. Once the sun .gees down your chances of becoming a victim go up.) Finally. most of us are responding to these warnings. Unfortunately there still exists a number of stubborn students who fall prey to the \IL won~L happen to me'' phenomenon. We have been asked not to prop doors and finally fewer doors are being propped. We are encouraged to use security or have someone walk us home. Finally we are doing more ofboth. What we aren't doing is _going to tallt to the deans demanding that drastic measures be taken. What we aren't doing is demanding more protection from campus security. (We pay twenty thousand dollars a year, it definitely is not asking .to much for Union to spend more on students' safety.) Do you realize that security uses only one van for its escort service? When the van is out of service, you may very well find yourself being delivered to your destination via The Big Brothers/Big Sisters station wagon as I was last night. I was informed by the driver of this non-security vehicle that the vans are not maintained properly and breakdown often. At one point ·there were two vans and now both of them are out of service. Perhaps Union should invest in a few NEW security vehicles. More vehicles would also help to reduce the long wait students often face when calling for a ride. Mter one in the morning those hired specifically to provide escort service are finished for night, therefore security guards are called away from their other duties in order to respond to student's calls. Wba t we aren't doing is drafting and signi,ng p.etitions and creafin.g proposals to combat the situation. Why? Why? Why are we allowing ourselves to be victims? Of course, we are all concerned about the current situation but how many assaults, attacks, rapes. and maybe one day even deaths, will it take before we demand that Union take -some serious action? One possibility. which many of you may immediately find unappealing, but at least give it some serious consideration, is the idea of a closed campus. We must face reality, Union College is in Schenectady and Schenectady has the second highest crime rate for a city its size in the country. This solut·ion may have its drawbacks, but it is feasible and the problem of safety has gotten out of hand. We can no longer ignore it. The entire campus (Union isn't a very big campus) should be surrounded ~age 5 by a sturdy iron gate, not simply a flimsy metal one that could easily be torn or jumped. There would be two, three or four entrances manned around the clock by security guards. Students wou.Jd be obliged to show identification and all others entering would need confirmation from a student, faculty member, admLnistrator or other staff member in order to enter the campus. (flu~ same process used by many apartment building eommcn.) A closed campus woul'd not eliminate the problem but it would greatly allcv ia tc the situation. Let us not be apath~Lic about such a crucial issue. Let us not wait until a life is sl!crinced. Unfortunately, camp~ts crimes are exploding all over the country. Young wont en have recently been murdered at Northeastern, Lehigh and Clarksen universities. Let us prevent Union from falling prey to the following statistic. Let us do everything in our power not to be the victims. Jo.urnal from th·e Clas.s of 2030 Resident Advisor By BENJAMIN M. AUSLANDER As I walked into the College Center. I admired the steel and glass facade which bad long ago replaced the outrnc.ded and 11 traditional\ exterior. Glass and steel were more sanitary. easier to replace. The Committee on Architecture had provided similar treatment to the other buildings on cainpus·. The glass doors slid open at my approach. In passing 1 nodded at Roger Resigned, ~hom I happened to know qoite well. Moving inside, the computer · controlled 68 degree environment envel()ped _ me with an air that was perfectly humid. Gone were the days of irregular and impromptu drafts and warm spots. Banners hung from the various surfaces of the interior. Some saying TRUTH IS OBEDIENCE', others 'APPROVED SOCIALIZING IS NON-DEVIANT, and still others, 'READ ONLY WHAT IS ON YOUR REAQING LIST'. I had seen sach banners every day for the past four years. They were simply reminders of . tile proper directives. The most pertinent of th.e banners were those posted by the Int~r Social Discipline Council (ISDC). You could tell such a :poster by its huge ted block letters. After all, these important signs dealt with our most dangerous and deviant urges. The ISDC had controlled the College for as long as.some could remember. I checked my mail. In the mailbox was a leaflet explaining corrective actions taken against a new professor. He had come from one of those \western\ schools, Laissez Faire State to be exact. It was rumored that they still allowed non-approved socializing at some of those places. Well this Professor had suggested that a party could constitute a \spontaneous and amusi~g social gathering\. '\HOW SHAMEFUL A SUGGESTION!\ the leaflet reminded. After explaining his punishm~mt the leaflet fmished with the usual slogan, 'ROOT. OUT RADICAL SOCIALITES'. The leaflet was just one more reminder of how College Policy worked in keeping us from danger. I also had a list in my mailbox as to what my readings would be for my last tetm at College. It dawned on me just then, that quite a bit was being told to me. and not very much solicited in return. Wouldn't a little investigation of this for the school newspaper be interesting, I thought? Sharon Docile, the school newspaper editor, happened to be nearby checking her mail. I said to her in a somewhat subdued tone, \Sharon do you suppose E little investigative reporting on what Union used to be like before the ISDC was formed might make for an interesting story?\. She looked at me a bit aghast and said in a very subdued tone, \You had better look out for the cam:pus Securitae before you say things like that.\ \No honestly\ I retorted, \just one innocent story, what could it hurt?\ She looked at me like I was a bit nuts as she stuffed her mail into a brown backpack and quickly departed. I checked the latest standings on the Union Tiddley Winks team from the school newspaper. Winks had been the only sport at Union for years. The Committee on Adverbs had long ago declared all other sports at Uniorr either too violent, too sexist, or too competitive. Besides, Winks promoted the proper image for our school in competitions, calm discipline and restraint. Our Winks team was really boring, page 1984 showed them to be 0-3-19 now. Nonetheless. the paper reminded me of my story idea. I decided a quick call to my father at work would provide some good leads for my story. He had graduated from Union in the early nineties. After saying hello and giving the usual generic explanation of how things were going, I got Continued em page 6 DUTCH HOLLOW RESTAURANT Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for, only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT/I 0 Selection 1990-91 Pick up an application and other information at the Hcsidcnce Lik Ollie<' or your nearest Area Coonlinator's Of! in. For more informatioll ..... . Come to one of these INTEREST MEETINGS: Sunday February 4th .... 7:00PM Richmond Basement Lounge Monday, February 5th .... 7:DOPM Davidson Lounge Tuesday, February 6th .... 7:00PM College Center Audi~t()rium -roEE~rER: \'(~! \ ){.401 £ i1f'- . \ f;t~l\r lAp th n-,e Gt\l.ldent Al-·h.,...tlles ·6ff1'Gc- GC4oS

,., Page 6 CONCORDlENSIS, February 1, 1990 FEATURES Church Service Union College Pl~ns Grand Canyon Rafting f.rip By CARL R. :FRIEDRICH, JR. Jan and Sue entered the small church, both clad in fine Spring print dresses, arm in arm. They had grown up together, and church on Sunday was one of tile many things they shared together. They enjoyed going to .church, as it made them feel as ifthey could make it through another week. Together, mostly. The twosome was seated in a pew on the shady side of the sanctury, so the glare would not interfere with their view of the lectern. Tile festive bonnets upon their delicate heads were certainly not there to shield the sun. The pew was located three-quarters of the way back, providing a good look at what was going en around them. After all, what better place than church to eye all the local available men? The organist cranked his pipes into life, causing Jan and Sue to keep their conversation withm ear's reach of each other. Sev1!ral times throughout the prelude they were interrupted by a young stud's entering of the house and passing to them a sheepish grin. Words were not proper etiquette at this point in the morning, but eye contact and grins were gems of communication. For these two young women, it was all they nceilixl The service began, and immediately Jan noticed that the flower arrangement (given in memory of a beloved) was quite magnificent. Sue was in total agreement, but wanted to add that the purple clcaks of Lhc clergy really picked those violets up! In fact, as the two looked ahead of them, all the pretty dresses and hats may as well have been a field of flowers, with the pickings of Gardcntown thrown in them. There was Tommy Moore., with those eyes. He was very astutely concentrating on the preacher. Dennis Rathwell held on to his mother's hand while managing a hymnal and program in the other (\So talented!\ mentioned Sue). And, of course, Taylor Bcttingsborough, with his slicked back daFk locks, whom these women had the privilege of sitting near. They did the dght thing by catclting his every movement out of the comers of their eyes. The next thing that the duo took in · was the incessant coughing of Mr. Wellington, which they thought was completely rude .. Especially because he was one or \those\ people, who spend most of their spare time at A.A. How dare he interrupt the service as such with with his drunk cough! He probably was drunk last night. Sue remembered how once he brought one of those people to a church picnic and almost ruined it. The man he brought obviously must have lived an a sewer, and quite enjoyed it. She remembered how when she asked bim (the Journal 2030 Continued from page 5 down to business. \Dad what did they tell you at College that a University is supposed to be? It's all for a story I am writing.\ \Well\, he hesitated, \they always said a University is a place where people get together umler conditions of Academic and Social freedom, there people can grow.\ I thanked him and let him get back to work That really didn't sound too mach like conditions at Union. Maybe my father was going senile? I decided that a quick check of this definition in the library would help my investigation. Finding a 2030 addition of an Encyclopedia was easy. After doing so I flipped through the \U's\ until I arrived at University. There on the page, probably the first time this particular page had been seen by human eyes, lay the definition I had been looking for. UNIVERSITY - \a pl&c where young people may comfortably learn intellectual/discipline and proper social restrictions\. Obviously, my father had gone senile. It couldn't possibly be that freedom and growth had once had a piace on college campuses. Here was Union, one of the best such institutions in America, a living example against that. I shut the Encyclopedia and stared off into space thinking friend) what )le did for work he mentioned counciling Vietnam By DESMOND WARD veterans, of which Sue knew A twelve-day educational none. It couldn't pay that rafting program in the Grand much, either. , Canyon, sponsored by Union, The discourse on Mr •. : is planned for this summer. Wellington and his dtunkat:d · · The program will be led by A.A. gang had to be professional guides and George interrupted, though, as the , H. Sbaw, professor of geology collection plate was being : and chairman of the geology passed~ and the grace of Taylor : department at Union. Bettingsbourough had to be TM excursion in the Grand absorbed. As the plate passed ·• Canyon will be held from J:an and Sue, they smiled at · August 7 - 18. Union Co11ege each other. It was only last . students can receive credit for week that Jan made Sue laugh, ·· the course or take it as a non- saying how it would be funny credit course. Several students to make chan,g~ as the . have already expressed a strong collection plate passed, or talce . interest in the trip and are some out rather than give .. • considering complementing the Their eyes alld facial • trip with a course in geology. expressions were enough to • Requirements for the trip will convey the message. he determined individually and are flexible. Before they knew it (How Note, February 15 is the time flies!) Jan and Sue found reservation deadline and themselves standing for the emollment is limited. A benedictin. They both gazed brochure and registration form over the congre,ga.tion from will be available in the next their strategically correct few days and can be picked up positions, takiug in the at the Office of Graduate and violets, seas of daffodils, and Continuing Studies (Union bonnets once more. Oh, how they wanted to run through those oceans, and speak with the Taylors, Dennises, and Tommys. It had been such a wonderful service, they felt so refreshed. They made sure they Lhanked the Reverend on thei.r way out the door~ and how he returned them with such a fatherly, handsome smile. Ja11 and Sue were rea<ly to tackle another week, in small, little Garden town. • • about this point. College. Wells House 1 \ ' Union Ave., Schenectady, NY 12309; 518-37()'-6643). The pr.ogram is the first of its kin!l for the geology department an<l will promote, a strong interest iri geology courses. for the students at Union. Usually, local field trips were the extent of the geology department. Now, the department can explore one of the wonders of the world during a warm and e11joyable summer month. The river will be flowing at a reiati vely fast :r:ate and wi 11 be physically challenging as well as exciting. White water rafting techniques will be taught to the participa11ts as well as hiking and camping. The cot~rse will explore geologica:! as well as environmental interests and will be one of the spoils of the geology department. Professor Shaw is enr·ouraging everyone to consider a trip ot thiS nature and wjll be hl1ppy to answer any questions about the trip. Shaking my head to clear the fog, I looked at my watch. [t was 2:55 on Friday afternoon. I packed up my stuff and started out on the run. At 3:00 it w~ going to be social half hour at the College Center. One wouldn't want to be found late for anything by tile Securitae. Our College Dean, Simon Stickler, was going to addres~ use about how we would enjoy that half hour, and how mucb we owed the school for letting us have it. There would be approved dcinks an:d approved food at the event. There migllt ,even be approved discussion! How wonderful,. 1 thought, to, be a modem College Student! with a flower from Circle-K v Roses $2.00 Carnations $1.00

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 FEATURES Church Service By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. Jan and Sue entered th(' small church, both clad in fine Spring print dresses, arm in arm. They had grown up together, and church on Sunday was one of the many things they shared together. They enjoyed going to church, as it made them feel as if they could make it through another week. Together, mostly. The twosome was seated in a pew on the shady side of the sanctury, so the glare would not interfere with their view of the lectern. The festive bonnets upon their delicate heads were certainly not there to shield the sun. The pew was located three-quarters of the way back, providing a good look at what was going on around them. After all, what better place than church to eye all the local availahlc men'? The organist cranked his pipes intu life, cau~ing Jan and Sue to kC'ep their conversation \\ ithtn L'ar's reach of each other. Sl•wral ti!lll'S throughout the prt•lud~.· they wen? intcrruptl.'d by a young stud's L'ntcring of th~.· !HllhL' and pa\Slll~ tll thL'lll .1 -.il,'\!'J\lt ~filL \\'ords \H'f1.' tlllt prll[ll'f t'tiqul.'lll' at this Jl!'Int tn ttl',' morning, bul eye Cllntal'l and grrns WL'fL' g~·ms of rummunication. For these two ~oung wom~n. it was all they nccdt'l.l. The service began, and immediately Jan noticed that the 11owcr arrangement (given in rnemory of a beloved) was quite magnificeRt. S uc was in tott i ~1[-!I\~emenL, bLll wanted to add that the puf}Jle cloaks of the clergy really picked those violets up! In fact, as the two looked ahead of them, all the prcLty dresses and ltats may as well have been a field of flowers, with the pickings of Gardeotown thrown in them. There was Tommy Moore, with those eyes. He was very astutely concentrating on the preacher. Dennis RathweU held on to his mother's hand while managing a hymnal and program in the other (\So talented!\ mentioned Sue). And, of course, Taylor Bcttingsborough, with his slicked back darl< locks, whom these women had the privilege of sitting ncar. They did the right thing by catching his every movement out of the corners of their eyes. The next thing that the duo took in was the incessant coughing of Mr. Wellington, which they thought was completely rudt•. Especially h,·: :llt,,· ik' \\as one of \those\ i'' <lJ' L·. '\ hu spend most of tl~< 1: 'l':tr,· time at :\.:\. How dare h~.· interrupt thl' sen icc as • <llh \\ l!h wiLh his drunk Ulu~h! lk probably was drunk L 1 '' 111 -~·It 1. S uc rt' llh'm lk' rc d how oncc he hrough 1 one of those (11:oplc to a church picnic and almost ruined it. The man he brought obviously must have lived an a sewer, and quite enjoyed it. She remembered how when she asked him (the Journal 2030 Continued from page 5 down to business. \Dad what did they tell you at College that a University is supposed to be? It's all for a story I am writing.\ \Well'' he hesitated, \they always said a University is a place where people get together under conditions of Academic and Social freedom, there people can grow.\ I thanked him and let him get back to work That really didn't sound too much like conditions at Union. Maybe my father was going senile? I decided that a quick check of this definition in the library would help my investigation. Finding a 2030 addition of an Encyclopedia was easy. After doing so I flipped through the \U's\ until I arrived at University. There on the page, probably the first time this particular page had been seen by human eyes, lay the definition I had been looking for. UNIVERSITY - \a pl11c where young people may comfortably learn intellectual/discipline and proper social restrictions\. Obviously, my father had gone senile. It couldn't possibly be that freedom and growth had once had a place on college campuses. Here was Union, one of the best such institutions in America, a living example against that. I shut the Encyclopedia and stared off into space thinking friend) what he did for work he mentioned counciling V ictnam veterans, of which Sue knew none. It couldn't pay that much, either. The discourse on Mr. Wellington and his drunkard A.A. gang had to be interrupted, though, as the collection plate was being passed, and the grace of Taylor Bettingsbourough had to be absorbed. As the plate passed Jan and Sue, they smiled at each other. It was only last week that Jan made Sue laugh, saying how it would be funny to make change as the collection plate passed, or take some out rather than give. Their eyes and facial expressions were enough to convey the message. Before they knew it (How time flies!) Jan and Sue found themselves standing for the bcncdictin. They both gazed over the congregation from t h ,· i r q rate g i call y c: or rc c t positions, taking in the violets, seas 0f daffodils, and honnets once more. Oh, how they wanted to run through tlhhc' \lC<.'~IIlS, and spe-ak with the Taylors. Denniscs, and Tommys. It had hecn such a wnndl~rful service, they fdt so rdrcslwd. Th~.·y made sur~.· thl'y thanked the Reverend on their wav out the door and how he ' ' returned them with such a fatherly, handsome smile. Jan and Sue were ready to tackle another week, in small. little Gardentown. • • • about iliis point. Shaking my head to clear the fog, I looked at my watch. It was 2:55 on Friday afternoon. I packed up my stuff and started out on the run. At 3:00 it was going to be social half hour at the College Center. One wouldn't want to be found late for anything by the Securitae. Our College Dean, Simon Stickler, was going to address use about how we would enjoy that half hour, and how much we owed the school for letting us have it. There would be approved drinks and approved food at the event. There might even be approved discussion! How wonderful, I thought, to be a modem College Student! REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 SS 016 at 8 & 10 P'M ADMISSION;· $1 TICKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH Union College Plans Grand Canyoa Raftiag Trip By DESMOND WARD A twelve-day educatio11al rafting program in the Grand Canyon, sponsored by Union, is planned for this summer. The program will be led by professional guides and George H. Shaw, professor -of geol<Jgy and chairman of the geology department at Union. The excursion in the Grand Canyon will be held from August 7 - 18. Union College stl'!dents can receive credit for the course or take i,t as a n()n- credit course. Several students have already expressed a stnmg interest in the trip and are considering complementing the trip with a course in geology. Requirements for the trip will be determined individually and are flexible. Note, February IS is the reservation deadline and enrollment is limited. A brochure and registration form will be available in the next few days and can be picked up at the Office of Graduate and Continuing Studies (Union - ---/ .. J·- -.._ ~ ' '~ ' . \. ~ ,.,/~,..__/ ~ College, Wells House, 1 Union Ave., Schenectady, NY 12309; 518-370-6643). The program is the first of its kind for the geology dcparlrnent and wiH promote a strong interest in geology courses for the students at Union. Usually, local field trips were the extent of the geology department. Now, the department can explore one of the wonders of the world during a warm and enjoyable summer month. The river will be flowing at a relatively fast rate and will be physically challenging as well as exciting. While water rafting techniques will be taught to the participants as well as hiking and camping. The course will explore geological as well as environmental interests and will be one of the spoils of the geology department. Professor Shaw is en ·ouraging everyone to consider a tnp ot thiS nature and will be happy to answer any questions about the trip. -- _ _..-.,_~? --.....____, -. . with a flower from Circle-K v Roses $2.00 Carnations $1.00

CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 Pa~:e 7 FEATURES . The Union Onions ·- Think About 11 lly AARON B. l'LAN Let me say right off that I have nothing against the Dutch. I bave been to Holland and it's a lovely place · rolling green hil:ls, pink tulips:, and magnificent buildings for as far as the eye can see. I didn't pruticularly like the hardboiled eggs for breakfast every day, but ·iliat's beside .rl:ie point. With tmeir explorers. .alizeddrugs, and windmills, the Dutch have made many important contributions to civli.zation. However, their relevance to the athletes at a small liberal arts college in upstate New York is net so obvious. It has become apparent to me that Union's ma-scot, the Dutchman, is in need of a change. Therefore. I hllmbly propose that Union cltange its mascot to the \Onions\. The primary purpose of a mascot is to instill a feeling of loyalty and pride into the hearts of a school's athletes and fans, wh.ile simultaneously intimidating the opposing team with images of strength and brutality. On this count, tile Dutchman clearly does· not cut the mustard. When they see that habyfaced midget with the P<Jinty wooden shoes smoking some unknown substance in his pipe, what do Unioa's opponents think? Are they te-rrified by the thought of a pointy wooden shoe getting lodged in some exemal orifice? Do they tremble when they thillk of the legacy of violence and. bloodshed associated with those windmill-building, tuliJl- planting marauders from the Netherlands? I think not. But consider this: You're a defensive lineman, staring down at the astroturf in your three-point stance. It's third- and-fifteen, abd your heartraces as all you can t,hink about is COMING FEBRUARY 3rd at Memorial · Chapel GILBERT GOTTFRIED at 8:00PM IT'S FREE Have a Laugh! breaking through the offensive line and getting that quarterback. The field general . screams out his count. The ball is snapped. You plunge across the 'line of scrimmage with a fantastic burst of acceleration w·hcn-- BOOF! You're flattened by an off-white, foul smelling vegetable, six feet high and seven fut wide. Tears flood down your cheeks as the gruesome bulb rubs his slimy skin up and down your facemask. You now know the horror and repulsion of facing the Union Onions. When the present school mascot was chosen many years ago, Union was an all-male college. It has been nearly 20 years now since women have graced Union's gtounds, and it's about time that our mascot reflected this school's co- educational student body. Can female field hockey, volleyball, and lacrosse players really be referred to as \Dutchmen\? Certainly not. \Dutchwomen\ is awkward., if not outright stupid. \Lady Dutchmen\ is an oxymoron. This is .the 1990s: gender-specific 11ouns eire passe. \Onion\ is neither male nor .female - simply a beautiful, neutral word which also happens to taste great on pizzas. This is closley related to another problem with the short dude with the bad haricut-- he can't do the job by himself. Our hockey players aren't Dutchmen, they're \Skating Dutchmen\. Our swim team is the \Swimming Dutchmen\. What's our basketball team called, the \Dribbling Dutchmen?\ Your friend and mine the onion works just fine a capella. The old Allium cepa can skate, swim, shoot or even run a perfect timing pattern into· the corner of the end zone. And it's also delicious on a steak and cheese sandwich. The on ion is mean. The onion is slDek. The onion is nutritious. And let us not forget how attractive it is, either. Just think how enthusiastic Union fans wO>uld be if they had a life-sized Oil ion leading their cheering. Thi Jik of the increascdattendancc! 1illink of the endorsement potential (Hi, I'm the Union Oniort for A,T & T)! And,-- Union College administration pay careful attention here-- thi11k of all the money!!! Union ccoLild join the . Big Ten. Acq uirc massive television contracts. Build a 70;000 seat statium and throw th.e few remai11ing on-campus fraternities out illto the slreets! Yes, the Union Onion win restore pride, generate revenue, and v.~ho knows, it c~uld even get our Barron's \Most Competitive\ rating back. Start writing those leuers to the Board of Tru:;tees now, folks. Change the Dutchman to the Onion! Union College Offers Cultural Trip to Baltimore Courtesy of Public Relations-Union College will offer a cultural excursion to Baltimore Md. a city that blends the traditional and modern and has undergone revitalization from April' 26 t~ 29. • Amm!g the sites to be toured· will be the Inner Harbor waterfront; the Impressionist collection aL the Balttmore Museum of Art; Fort McHenry -- birthplace of \TheStar Spangled Banner\· the state capital, Annapolis, and the U.S. Naval Academy; and Longwood Gardens. ' Balti?lore's historical heritage and recent renaissance will be presented in a fully guided, professiOnal tour. Some other features will be a dinner theater production of Damn Yankees and dinner at Haussncr's Restaurant, which also has an art collection . . The. cost. at ,$375 per person (doubl~ occupancy): covers transportation; lodging; five meals, l!Jcludmg ~1e dinner theater; the professiOnal tour gmde; entrance fees; luggage handling; tax and lips, plus lip for the bus driver. The registration deadline is March 1. Visa and Mastercard will be accepted. For more infonnation and registration contact the Graduate anl! Continuing Studies Non-Credit Office, Union College, Wells House, 1 Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (518/370-66113).

CONCORDfENSJS, February 1, 1990 Page 7 FEATURES The Union Onions - Think About It By AARON B. ILAN Let me say right off that I have nothing against the Dutch. I have been to Holland and it's a lovely place- rolling green hills, pink tulips, and magnificent buildings for as far as the eye can see. I didn't particularly like the hard boiled eggs for br~akfust every day, but that's beside r'le point. Witll their explorers, alized drugs~ and windmills, the Dutch have made many important comributions to civlization. However, their relevance to the athletes at a small liberal arts coLlege in upstate New York is not so obvious. It has become apparent to me that Union's mascot, the Dutchman, is ill need of a change. Therefore, I humbly propose that Unioll change its mascot to the \Onions\. The primary purpose of a mascot is to instill a feeling of loyalty and pride into the hearts ofa school's athletes and fans, while simultaneously intimidating the opposing team with images of strength and brutality. On this count, the Dutchman clcml y docs not cut the mustard. When they sec that baby faced midget with the pointy wooden shoes smoking some unknown substance in his pipe, what do Union's opponents think? Are they terrified by the thought of a pointy wooden shoe getting lodged in some exemal orifice? Do they tremble when they think of the legacy of violence and bloodshed associated with those windmill-building, tulip- planting marauders from the Netherlands? I think not. But consider this: You're a defensive lineman, staring dowH at the astroturf in your three-point stance. It's third- and-fifteen, and your heart races as all you can think about is COMING FEBRUARY 3rd at Memorial Chapel GILBERT GOTTFRIED at 8:00PM IT'S FREE Have a Laugh! breaking through the offensive line and getting that quarterback. The field general screams out his count. The ball is snapped. You plunge across the line of scrimmage with a faHLastic burst of acceleration when-- BOOF! You're llJlh'ncd by an olf-\\llik', ftJLd smelling vegetable, six feet high and seven feet wide. Tears flood down your checks as the gruesome bulb rubs his slimy skin up and down your facemask. You now know the horror and repulsion of facing the Union Onions. When the present school mascot was chosen many years ago, Union was an all-male college. It has been nearly 20 years now since women have graced Union's grounds, and it's about time that our mascot reflected this school's co- educational student body. Can female field llockey, volleyball, and lacrosse players really be referred to as \Dutchmen\? Certainly not. \Dutchwomen\ is awkward, if not outright stupid. \Lady Dutchmen\ is an U.\)'lll!lfllll. TIJi, j-, lhL' J<J'llh: ~L'IHkr--.pL'l ific· 1\tlllli' :JI\c' J':J-.,.,:.. \Onion\ is neither male nor k111ak - 'ill!J'h :1 J',':JL!llilll. neutral word which also happens to taste great on pizza'\. This is closlcy related to another problem with lhc short dude with the bad haricut-- he can't do the job by himself. Our hockey players aren't Dutchmen, they're \Skating Dutchmen\. Our swim team is the \Swimming Dutchmen\. What's our basketball team called, the \Dribbling Dutchmen'!\ Your friend and mine the onion works just fine a capella. The old A Ilium cepa can skate, swim, shoot or even run a perfect timing pattern into the corner of the end zone. And it's also delicious on a steak alil<l cheese sandwich. The onion is mean. The onion is slcl.'k. The onion is nutritious. And let us not forget how auractivc it is, either. Just think how emhusiastic l 'niun fans would he if they had a lifc-..,i;L'd union kading their chcaing. Think (lf tilL' im:rL'..:tSl'<.i aucndann·! Think or the endorsement potential (Hi, I'm the Union Onion for A,T & T)! And,-- Union College administration pay careful attention here-- think of all the rnomy!!! Union could join the Big Ten. Acquire massive television contracts. Build a 70,000 seat stadium and throw the few remaining on-campus fraternities out into the streets! Yes, the Union Onion wi 11 restore pride, generate revenue, and who knows, it could even get our Barron's \Most Competitive\ rating back. Start writing those letters to the Board of Trustees now, folks. Change the Dutchman t() the Onion! Union College Offers Cultural Trip to Baltimore Courtesy of Public Relations-Union College will offer a cultural excursion [() Rallimorc', Md., a city that blends the traditional and modern and has undergone revitali1.ation, from April 2(, to 29. Amo~g the sites to be toured will be the Inner ~arb<Jr waterfront; t..hc Impressionist collet 1 ion at the Baitt.more Museum of Art; Fort McHenry -- brrthplacc of \TheStar Spangled Rannd'· rh,· state capital, Annapolis, and the U.S. Naval Academy; and Longwood Gardens. ' Balti.more's historical heritage and recent renaissance will he presented in a fully gH1dcd, professmnal tour. Some other features will be a dinner theater production of Damn Yanke~s and diniiL'r al Haussncr's Restaurant, which also has an art collection . . The_ cost, at .S375 per person (doubl~ occupancy), covers transpo.rtation; lodging; five 111cals, mcludmg the dmncr theater; the professiOnal tour guide; entrance fees; luggage handling; ta\ and tips, plus tip for the bus driver. The registration deadline is March 1. Visa and Mastcrca.rd will he accepted. For more information anc..l registration contact the Graduate ant! Cllnt inuing Stud il'S Nlln c 'red il Office, Union College, Wells House, I Union Ave., Schenectady, N.Y. 12~0X (S IX(370~6(,.1 ~). a f./ Jlo! J{AV£ You_ FoR.erorrol 10 f1AK£ foul(; ,. Come One Come All! to the Moscow Circus at the Knickerbocker Arena Wednesday, February 7th at 7:30 p.m. $11.00 a ticket regularly $17.50 sponsored by the Russian Club If interested cal1381- 1660 or send check made out to the Russian Club to box 1716. Include your name. box number and phone number and your ticket will be ~rn to you in the tnail · f\·.: .. :' .',:·.,., \\''·';· ·,.;;:·C:::.~i., ...... ... o .... • ,'. •i '· ',:'.·

Page 8 BATH By Michele M. Martin CONCORDlENSIS, Fe~ruary 1, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Looking back, _though a little late, I really begin to appreciate the time we spent, it went so fast, so great are the memories that forever will last such a beautiful city; a bit of England, a bit of Rome, when I was there I felt so at home. Now back at good old Union I realize even more, how much I really do adore that wonderful dty and the great experience, I wouldn't trade it for a million pence. The Circas and the Royal Crescent, the Pulteney Bridge - the atmosphere so pleasant. When on Milson Street we had to stop at Laura Ashley or the Body Shop to look more English we all did try, so some of us would buy and buy. To be American we all were proud, though the Englis.h thought us obnoxious and loud. At the Huntsman we all did meet, to drink Lager or have a chicken pie to eat or at the Beehive to gamble and drink Scrumpy - surely in the morning you'll be grumpy at eleven o'clock was last call, but by no means was that all At Bug Island, not necessary to be twenty-one, to da.11ce and boogie and have some fun. Oh how we miss our. sweet English house mothers, or late night burgers and chip& at Schwartz brothers. Oh Bath famous for its bun, for its Baths, for its views- don't believe·me just ask Sally Lunn. · From Salsbury Hill to Castle Comb, with our Badger Line bus pass we all did roam. On English fare we all did munch, whether Kidney Pies or a Ploughmans Lunch. Margaret Thatcher? She's jolly good, a vote of no confidence ifParliament only could, good for Nigel Lawson if ever he falters, he just blames it on Sir Alan Walters. Oh we Americans we made our mark, from the Ro1.1W1 Baths to Victoria Park. \Brilliant\ accurately desc1ibes Aquae Sulis, if we exaggerate please do tell us. From Raby Place to Bloomfield Ave., how much fun we all did have. Oh t<> Bath I do say \Cheers\ for the best experience of my twenty yeats. Go on a term abroad - take my advice. Go t() Bath - it is so nice though there is no language difference - you will still get the same experience a different culture is what you need and a brand new life you will lead!!.!!!!!! INTERNATIONAL TRIVIA 1. What city is the hub of Italian Industry? 2. What two countries have cities called Sault Ste. Marie? 3. What strife-torn area came under British rule in 1972? 4. What Buddhist spiritual leader met with Pope John Paul II in New Delhi in 1986? 5. What country renamed one of its cities Karl Marx-Stadt? 6. Who has hit the mosi major league home runs among Cuban born baseball players? 7. What revolutionary Russian did Spanish community Ramon Mercader fatally stab in Mexico in 1940? 8. What country boasts 6,000 localities that have declared themselves \alcohol-free zones\? 9. What Middle Eastern city is served by Lod Airport? 10. What African country put an immorality act into effect in 1957? Answers 'Reli g~ a1ong JUSt ~ine. . 'li\t~ me. Chinese ~tudents . i~ thrcy'o.·learn not. -tp sues-uon our atl.tnori-ty and benave. . tc:ma~d us in a f'riend1~ an<} -. doc11€. manner ... . LAN·G·UAGE .. . . / TABLES ·Mondays: French, Hebrew, Russian- 1. 2:30-1 :30 Tuesdays: Chinese,. Italian 12:30-1:30 Wednesdays: German, Japanese, Spanish 12:30-1:30 ; . ·'. . . . ~ \ ... ,, ,, 'l1;)JlN tnnos (OI) AJAV ~~~ (6) uorun l;}JAOS ~qJ. (8) MfSfO.U UOd'} (.l) Zd.ldd AU OJ. (9) AUEtW~D lSU:tJ (g) 13u.re'} JUJUQ ~ttL (~) pUB{~.Il W;;ltf).ION (£) ·s·n dt.[l puu upeuuo (Z) u-euw (I) -------:;--J ~l91iO\Miiriri.uciW\iic1i=ii'i'LANTACo'NS'i'i1'0fioN

,·· f' ~If·, I' . 0 .. ,; ' 1 'f 'ii 1 T.t , .. c,-1 \.,.'\'~ ->'\\- .. '• CONCORDIENSIS, February J, 1990 •-i' J,l I·~ Page 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES This Week in the World Quotation of tile Day Austrian .Poet Philosophizes at Union \I now consider it necessiJ!.ry in the natimaal intere!it for the African NatcQnal Congress and the Government to meet urgen.tly to negotia!e .an ,effective politicat settlemeru. \' -Nelson Mande]a, header of the Afric:an National Congress Will Nelsun Mandela be released? All of South Africa, and the world, is awaiting what almost everybody thinks wiD be one of the m()st momentous events in SouthMriean history. Washington's ties to th_, 11ew leaders in Rumania, as well as other 11ew government; in eastem Euro · have bee~ muted because of doubts that tJ. : have committed themselves. to democratic change Pro•govet.nment demons1r~tors in Rinrnmia laid siege to the headqull!ters of opposition parties in a well organized response to itllll oppositioln's protests during the weekend. News analy~is: President Bush proved th11t a popular leader, if sufficiently arouse~ can .s:till chaJ18e votes on Capitol HiD, even in this day .of lax party discipline and constantly shifling coaliti<ms. A major Israeli religious leader among Jews of Notth African origin, ~abbi, Baruch A.bu- Hatzen, has called for negotiations with the Palestinian Liberation OrgaEii.zation. The Cuban tt<>op p\!lllout in Angola is being temporarily suspended, Hanna said, blaming the U.S. for a rebel attack on Cl!ban trooops ther-e. A maj()r terrorism trial has begun in France. Fouad Ali Saleh, a tnember of the pro-Ir&nian Party of G,od, is accl.lsed of masterminding 1 ~ bombing$ that killed 13 people in Paris in 19&:5 and 1986. Fouad Ali Saleh The Rev. Jesse Jad~son announced he would visit SouthAfrica within weeks as the guest ()f Waltef Sisulu and SACC .(South African Council of Churches) general secretary, Frank Chikane. He said he hoped to see President F W de. Kle:rk and Nelson Mandela .. South Africa's Ainbassador to W $bing ton, Piet Koomhof, said that on the basis of long personal acquaintance he belie~ed the ci'9:il rights leader wanted to play a concilil;\tory role. Jackson has been granted a visa, Foreign Minister Pik Botha said. Courtesy of the New York Times By RENATE THIERMANN Om Friday, Union's int~Jmediate and advance Geffllan students had the chance to wjtness a live poetry reading · given by the Austrian poet, literary critic, and scholar Ernst Scboenw.iese. Scboenwiese, whose venerable age (he is 85) distiJlgllishes him as a witness not only to 20th century histCJry, but also as a prudent phil(lsopher of life, delivered an impressive reading of his mostly short, aphoristic poc.m.s. Praised by SUNY professor Strelka (who gave solll:e introductory background inf()rrnation) as one of the most important contemporary Austrian poets, Schoenwiese wri~es his poems in an .ap.J)'a-ently simple and plain, but aJso very poetic style that reflects his mes,sage. Meditating upon the basic and fun<lamental aspects of being, suc11 as death, life, love, and our u:nderstanding of reality, he tale~ a somewhat existentialist apptoach. NOTlN_G ThiE SUCCESS OF THE AJJr,JEGA rNVJISlOA~ ff\{TERVENE IN ALL BU)H ORDEJ~) 1l1£ !Vl!L tT/[ HY TO DRUG- REtATtD 5rlTUATIOI\jS .. THE GERMAN CLUB . . is holding a 01\ GU VSJ LET's PLAY DRU& S(J{UC:hLEf\. ARNIE/ f.Vt.RY LUJUCJ;(J YOU &lvE ME 'iCH\\~ FRI 105 I AND 1 1 LL- HE.YJ W/iER;E'5 808tW? I c.~c-~ by (Y\lk:e. Mf:;:;;,r t·l'\ POT LUCK SUPPER Friday, February 9th at 5:00p.m. at Delta Gamma Fraternity House (upper left campus ... parking lot entrance) In the discussion that followed, Schocnwisc explained his attempt to transceno rationalism and to immerse deeply iflto the very essence of being and existence through his ]loetry of intensified inner experience. He sees himscl f as being influenced by Eastern philosophy (Zen bllddhism) as well as German medieval mysticism, and be wants to be seen not primarily as a critic of the actual shortcomings of modern society. 'but· as someone whose poetic insight leads his contemporaries· to what can only be described in a somehow old-fashioned way as the enrichment of the human heart, which-- as Schoenwiese is convinced-- has the capability to overcome human conflicts. An English edition of Schoenwiese's selected poems was published by the Union College Press (German. with English translati()n) under the title \Sct:rl'ls i11 LII~ Grass\ and can be purchased at the price of $7. FRENCH MOVIE L 'Associe' (The Associate) by Rene GainvBle J\1onday, February 5th at 8:00 pm in CC rm. 406 Admission is free and the movie will be shown in French with English subtitles - all welcome. Anyone who would like to take part should sign the list in the Modem Languages Department. E~ch person is expected to make and bring a dish (preferably German). Any questions call Shirley 346-6055~ Renate 370-6833. · Brights lights, Big City. Iran hopes to attract 300,000 tourist$ tllis year.

· Page 10 CONCORDIENSJS, February 1, 1990 *FRESHMAN REPRESENTATIVE ELECTIONS* JAMES MOORE James Moore Being that I, James Moore, was born in Alaska, and raised by wild sperm whales~ I have become acutely attuned with the environment, other cultures and L.L. Bean. To some, this may seem inconsequelltial, however my diverse upbril1ging has proven to be more of an asset than a liability since I am both terrestrial and aquatic. Alas, I am only a mammal who cares for the well being of the class of 1993 and tllat of Union College. After years of braving the wild frontier, making sure the voice of our class is heard would seem quite simple. However, it is a task not to be taken lightly. I feel we need a strong leader who won't back down due to shyness or intimidating formality. Since we, the class of 1993, are the future of Union College it is imperative to have our voice heard. I am sure of my ability to successfully convey the voice of the class to the ears of the Administration. One final comment, for your benefit, I ask you to please check the box next to my name, James Moore. Thank you for your support. KAREN HURWITZ Members of the Class of 1993: For those of you who do not already know me, my name is Karen Hurwitz and I am running for freshman class representative. It seems lilte yesterday that we were s;creaming our birthdays toge-ther as a class on West Beach at the Playfair dur.ing oriemtaticn, or singing the Alma Mater on President Morris' front lawn. Almost 15 weeks havepa:ssed already, atul as a class we have adjusted to life here at U11ion. We have all gone our own ways in one respect abo. becoming involved in different sports~ clubs, fraternities and sororities. Because our graduating das.s at Union is small, the 11n.ity that existed during orientation, can continue fo-r the next four years. I woald like to see our class grow closer tog~ther i11 our years hene at Union. Kare11 Hurwitz I was active in student government in high school, twice president of my class,and president cof the Student Council in my senior year .. Likewise, I ,..,ould really like to become in'w'alved with the Student Forum here at Union. I will be ciedicated to the rcsponsibili ties of student rcpresentatin. I look forward to getting t() know you, the members of the class of 1993~ and your th'()ughts about life here at Umion. I am also interested in hearing about those issues that you feel are important facing the student body, sue it as our social alcohol policy~ aiJd the changes in our acadeiJJi:c calendar. I will also keep you notified about the Stu~ent Forum and its activities. It would be :a great honor for me to represe11t our class in the Student Forwm and I am anxicus to oo,gin working for and with o11r class. I would appreciate yot~r vote for Karen Hurwitz on Friclay, February 2. Union Terms Abroad Information Meetings Thursday, Feb .. 1 at 4:30PM Look for announcements of Locations JOE PECORA Dear Fellow Classmates, I would like to begin by saying that my name is Joe Pecom, and that I am running for presidency of the Class of 1993. As one of your peers, I wol:lld like a classmate who cannot only represent us, but also one who has great leadership and dedication. With these qualities, I believe that I am able to fulfill the role of class president~ I will always do my best to keep pace with all current issues concerning our class. In the past, I have succeeded and I have failed; but I have always gone to great lengths to accomplish what I feel it right. As class president Joe Pecora and fellow classmate, I will always be open minded to your suggestions concerning our class goals. Remember, the office of class .president is very serious, and much could be accomplished with the right leader. If you believe that I am that leader, as I do, then vote for me ... Joe Pecora. on Friday Feb. 2 ~-- Vote AU photos on Pages· 10 & 11 are by All'ison Howard SUNNY SHAILAM It is not impossible for a clllss leader to· keep students informed, resolve grievances, and give each of us a feel of \class\ .unity. The current issues dealing with the quality of campus life require a leader with experience. I have had the opportunity to not only serve for gov't on the · high school level, but on the local and state levels as we'll. My positions include serving as class rep., Executive Cout1cil member, and, in my senior year, secretary of The Student Government, I have also been an active campaigner for my local alderman and state assemblyman. More importantly. 1 feel that communicative skills, as well as an ability to listen and learn are qualities that I can bring to this office. Sunny Shailam After living at Union for several months, many controversial issues have come to my attention, some\of which you are not totally aware of. The schedule change is one that came to all of us as a Sl:ltprise. Unfortunately, though, many of us are unhappy with it for various reasons. If elected, I will do my best to express any feelings you have on this issue to the Administration and try to change the schedule back if you . so desire. Alm~,g with the sudden schedUle change i~, the new social policy, which puts our Camp Union celebration in jeopardy. This is undoubtedly the biggest social event of the year, and brings the entire cant pus together. Presently, the college administration has \unofficially removed\ this event. Through interactions with the Administration, I plan · to present your ideas and with the hest of 1nv abilities and regain Camp Union or secure the best possible alternatives. I urge you to support my candidacy for Class Representative. Thank you. CARYN CA&TON Hi! My name is Caryn Carton and I am miming for representative of the freshman class. I am strongly supportive . of social opportunities that all members of our class can participate in, Greek affiliates as well as independents. I would also like to _see more Class of '93 events, such as semi- formals with professors, fundraiser dinners, etc ... Caryn Carton Basically, we only have three and a half years left to make our Union College experience a . memorable one. I would like to help the Class of 1993 on its way to achieving lasting bonds and purposeful endeavors. Tune in this ' weeken-d - . for exciting :Union hockey. Friday at Saturday Hobart at RIT (7:00 Pregame 7:30 pm 7:30 pm Shows) 89~7 FM WRUC The Du~chmen Sports Network

CONCORDlENSIS, F.ebrUt~ry 1~ 1:990 .Page 11 *:FRESHMAN REPRESENT AliVE ELECTIONS* FRANK WESSELS Q: Who is Frank Wesse-ls? A: I am a 6'0\ tall, 16i lb. freshman at Union CoJlege, I plan to major in biol()gy and history in the seven-year medical program and !lope to be elected at a class representative. Q: Why do you wish •t;O attain such a position? A: Since I am only goimg to be attending Union for three years, I'll have to fit four years of college into three awesome and intense yeats of fun. I see the position of cla~s reptes:entative as being a gr' . way to meet · people and realize my ;goats. Q: Why vote for Frank Wessels? A: People .have all sorts of reasons to vote for me. It maybe because I'm a ·n.ice guy, or because I'm bright and humorous or just because I'm Moe when they sar Eenie, Frank Wessels .A: I won't make any absurd promises like changing the grading or trimester systems. and I'm certainly not going to · lobby for doming the carnpus ' since I am not even silre 1 have such. authority. I will try •. however, to get Led Zep:peHn to play a ReUnion weekend gig · in front fo the Nott (only kidding). All I can promise is to work my hardest at making out year as fun as possible. Q:Do you have any closing comments? A: In the past few years, only a 1 small percentage of the classes l1ave voted in sludent government elections. They claim that the student government has no power and is a joke, well, it has no power when no one cares to vote and express their opinions. I believe the class of 1993 cares, · and together we can make our stay at Union full on many happy memories. So go out and vote! \These are the best of times\ -Styx EVAN LEGROS My name is Evans Legros. I am proud to be a candidate for Freshman Class President. I've had prior experience in leadership positions in high school, which include being a member of the Stttdent Government and the Senior Council. As Representative of· the freshman class, I would like to examine issues that not . . only affect us as a fresflmen class, but that affect all members of the campus community. Meenie, Minie, M()e when voting. However, the:y can be · · assured that I am quite competent and will dC2 my best · for Union College and our class of 1993. The new Social Policy and its rules about drinking on campus are major conc€rns of the ·freshman class. Other issues of great concern are the new Fall Calendar and t11ition. It has been rising for the past couple of years; that is something that definitely should be looked into. Q: What will you do if elected? · Freshmen should be able to ORIENTATION COMMI.TTE.E OC Applications are being accepted in the Dean of Students office. Pick up forms from Mrs. Facenda APPLICATION DEADLINE: February 9, 1990 have a choice of where they · 1993.. Upon entering Union want to eat. Being limited to i College this past fall, we all . · West and the Dutch-Hollow : had expectations for our college (after 7:00p.m.) does not give ; years. The upperclassmen . us that much of a choice. We • helped to introduce us to the : · should be able to use our meal '· many aspects of college life. They also led us to believe that . the students have a limited voice in college decisions. school calendar are re-assessed with a stronger student opinion playing a FOle. I believe that my feelings on many issues arc representative of the students as a whole. If I am aleected to office, I will try to make sure our voice does not go un- heeded any longer. Regardless of the amount, we . ------------- must use the power we do have · NEIL to t,he f11llest extent to fulfill KANTERMAN Evan Legros cardS at the Rathskeller as welL Issues such as .the new college president and campus safety are other matters of great importance that I c.an help deal with. l feel that I can listen to your ideas and bring them to the attention of the administration so that we. as freshmen, will have a voice. LARA CHAMBERLAIN My name is Lara Chamberlain and I would like to be yotu freshman representative for the class of lara Chamberlain our expectations. We are now given this opportunity in studeut forum. I, Lara · Chamberlain, would like to be that voice for our class in student forum this year. B'ecause I am a freshman; I do . not ha.ve the political experience that the upperclassmen have, but I will try my best to live up to my position and to represent our class to the best of my ability. Thank you CHRISTOPHER SEARS As a representative of Student Forum, I think the first and most important goal is to insure that the students have more of a voice about what goes on. Once that is established, other subjects may be addressed. Until we have our foothold .though, our opinions will not carry much weight. There have been some decisions that I feel were made without enough student input. I want to insure that such issues as: the social policy, sexual awareness, and the Christopher Sears UNION COLLEGE CONCERT COMMITIEE presents TONY RICHARDS & THE K-MAN BAND Monday, February 5 at 8:00 prn in the College Center Atrium (Food and Drinks will be available) If there is one thing I havr, learned in my high school career, it is how to get the job done. I have held .many positions of responsibility, I was treasurer and vice-president of the Drama Society. but Neil Kanterman more importantly, for two years I held the office of President of Students Against Driving Drunk. Last year, while holding this position, I was an intricate part in creating our most productive year with fundraisers and other awareness events to help advance our life- saving cause. In any extra time, I was part of numerous leadership workshops and conventions. The Presidency is a position most people could hold, but still not get much done. I would not run if I felt that I could not put the time an effort to doing the best job possible. The President has the responsibility of establishing a position of authority and leadership in a seldom heard from freshman class. My actions will be, like this statement. brief ·and to the point, making sure that we have a voice in the way ot: · coUcge community is run. ' VOTE on Friday Feb. 2

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, F'ehruary 1, 1990 <itJlltfllrhirttsis LETTERS ------------------------------------------- ----Founded at Union College 1877:-_ --- Th~ Spirit of Spring Will Live On This spring, there will be no Camp Union. Some might look at this as an administrative plot designed to revoke further the guaranteed rights of th.e c~llege student. Granted, Camp Union was the gravitational center around which the rest of the academic year revolved. However, its time has passed, and Spring Term wii be left to float without direction. A time will come, though, when students will find altem.atives to this event and will snap out of their dysfunctional funk to realize that fun can be had without Camp Union. Hopefully, that time will be this year. The fundamental reason for the cancellation of Camp Union is the new set of New York State iaws regarding alcohol consumption. These laws rendered it impossible for a free- for-all weekend to continue to take place. Moreover~ what was intended to be a fun-food- and-folly-fiUed weekend for Union students was crashed by local college and high school students. The College should not be responsible for an institution that facilitates destructive behavior by many of its attendants. Long ago, other schools adapted their spring social events to revisions in alcohol consumption laws. Union, in fact, has been rather generous in this aspect. It was inevitable that the current changes would take place. Students may or may not deny it, but the weekend was geared toward drinking beyond a level that the school could tolerate any longer, especially in light of the re.cent revisions of the law. The school is not insensitive to the social vacuum that will be left. The money allocated for Camp Union will go to other social functions_ Movies will be shown outdoors throughmat the term. Bands will play on the patio behind the College Center. There will still be beautiful weather come the end of May. Spring will still be spring, just not under the guise of Camp Union. It remains to be seen exactly what the student response will be, and this will probably not be found until midway througl1 May. Three- quarters ()f the student body has grown accustomed to the tradition, and so there will be plenty of holdouts for the next few years. But eventually they will have graduated, leaving Camp Union as just a few pages in some old yearbooks. Termination of a grand old tradition is something that no one enjoys doing, and this, too, was a choice not of any single person's own volition but one that was dictated by circumsta11ce. Camp Union was equated with fun. No one wants to strip the spring or this student body of such merriment. But, limits further than the ones already placed on Camp Union had to be set. And it was the Administration's duty to set them. It seems far from true that the Administration is on a course of students' social disassembly. We, the students,. must realize that their hands are tied. We must alsc realize that we can and will still have fun in the sun in the spring. The Closing of a Lo:ophole To the Editor: Union's social atmosphere is a legacy inherited from ·previous years of unrestricted alcohol use. the 1985 legislative decision to rai$6 the drinking age to 2.1 rocked college .campuses across the ·country; however, until January 1, 1990 students lived in a loop-hole. Although we could not purchase alcohol, possession and. consumption remained within the bounds of legality..... but beyond the reality of a law that bad determined that 18-21 year-olds should not drink. The new State Law (copies were mailed to all students)&.loses the loop- hole -- \it is unlawful for anyone under twenty-one to possess alcohol with the intent to consume it.\ The implications of the Law with regards to Union's social atmosphere is obvious. We must abandon the attitude inherited from ou'r predecessors in favor of a responsible, legal alternative~ The new .sQcial policy· was not conceived to thwart students' attempts to enj<>y themselves at college or to u:ndennine the Greek system, but rather as .an effort to align campus policy with state law. Students perceived the policy as an imposition · o.f administrative w.ill because we returned f:rom break, finding ourselves under the influence of a restrictive policy. Some students,. alarmed by the new policy (or by change in general) disregarded the logical necessity of the changes. Union's Greek system enjoys a positive .relationship with our administration derived from mutual res,pect and consideration for each other's interests. Many other colleges do not share similar administrative relations - their Elections for the new social atmo~phetes ar-e either restrictive or non .. existent. Students helped draft the original policy, but some changes, .tha~ students consider significant, were made without involving all those who would be directly effected. causing misunderstanding and malaise. The administration and students are currently working towards a mutually agreeable pollcy that will hopefully accommodate all our interests and satisfy the requirements· of tlle new State Law. In order to be recognized as intelligent, respo-nsible members of the ,college community who are worthy of consultation by the administration. we must acknowledge our responsibility to comply with the law, however, una:ppealing, and develop the best possible social situation within it. Dan Waible '91 Editors~in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Deadline for Registration in Mrse Marra's office is Feb. 2 Anyone and everyone is welcome and encouraged to participate in the elections. , AIL LE'ITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMIITED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY · PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED . WORDSWILLNOTBE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • optDIODS of the Editorial Board

Page 12 CONCORDIEN'SJS, February 1, 1990 (!!nnrnrbtrnsis LETTERS ----------------------------------------------- ----Foullded at Union C(}/lege 1877--- The Spirit of Spring Will Live On This spring, there will be no Camp Union. Some might look at this as an administrative plot designed to revoke further the guaranteed rights of the college student. Granted, Camp Union was the gravitational center around which the rest of the academic year revolved. However, its time has passed, and Spring Term will be left to float without direction. A time will come, though, when students will find alternatives to this event and will snap out of their dysfunctional funk to realize that fun can be had without Camp Union. Hopefully, that time will be this year. The fundamental reason for the cancellation of Camp Union is the new set of New York State laws regarding alcohol consumption. These laws rendered it impossible for a free- for-all weekend to continue to take place. Moreover, what was intended to be a fun-food- and-folly-filled weekend for Union students was crashed by local college and high school students. The College should not be responsible for an institution that facilitates desttuctive behavior by many of its attendants. Long ago, other schools adapted their spring social events to revisions in alcohol consumption laws. Union, in fact, has been rather generous in this aspect. It was inevitable that the current changes would take place. Students may or may not deny it, but the weekend was geared toward drinking beyond a level that the school could tolerate any longer, especially in light of there cent revisions of the law. The school is not insensitive to the social vacuum that will be left. r-11te money allocated for Camp Union will go to other social functions. Movies will be shown outdoors throughout the term. Bands will play on the patio behind the College Center. There will still be beautiful weather come the end of May. Spring will still be spring, just not under the guise of Camp Union. It remains to be seen exactly what the student response will be, and this will probably not be found until midway through May. Three- quarters of the student body has grown accustomed to the tradition, and so there will be plenty of holdouts for the next few years. But eventually they will have graduated, leaving Camp Union as just a few pages in some old yearbooks. Termination of a grand old tradition is something that no one enjoys doing, and this, too, was a choice not of any single person's own volition but one that was dictated by circumstance. Camp Union was equated with fun. No one wants to strip the spring or this student body of such merriment. But, limits further than the ones already placed on Camp Union had to be set. And it was the Administration's duty to set them. It seems far from true that the Administration is on a course of students' social disassembly. We, the students, must realize that their hands are tied. We must also realize that we can and will still have fun in the sun in the spring. The Closing of a Loophole To the E<litol': Union's, SO!cial atmosphere is a legacy inherited from previous years of unrestricted alcohol liSe. the 1985 legislative d~cision to t:aise the drinking ((ge to 21 rocked college campuses across the country; however, until January l, 1990 students lived in a loop....:h-ole. Although we could n<Jt IJurchase alcohol, possession and consumption remained \'ithin the bounds of legality.... hut beyond the reality ef a law that had determined tllat 18-21 year -olds should not drink. The new State Law (copies were mailed to all stu den ts) closes the loop- hole -- \it is unlawful for anyone u11der twenty-one to possess alc~hol with the intent to COflSli!.ITie it.\ The implicati~11s of the Law with regards to Union's social atmosphere is obvious. We must abancon the attitude inherited from our predecessors in favor of a responsible, legal alternative. The new social policy was not conceived to thwart students' attempts to enjoy themselves at college or to undermine the Greek system, but rather as an effort to align campus policy with state law. Students perceived the policy as an imposition of administrative will because we returned from break, finding ourselves under the influence of a restrictive policy. Some students, alarmed by the new policy (or by change in general) disregarded the logical necessity of the changes. Union's Greek system enjoys a positive Felationship with our administration derived from mutual respect and consideration for each other's interests. Many other colleges do not share similar administrative relations - their Elections for the new social atmospheres are either restrictive or non-existent. Students helped draft the original policy, but some changes, that students consider significant. were made without involving all those who would be directly effected, causing misunderstanding and malaise. The administration aRd students are currently working towards a mutually agreeable policy that will hopefully accommodate all our inte:Fests and satisfy the requirements of the new State Law. In order to be recognized as intelligent, responsible rnem bers of the college community who are worthy of consultation by the administration, we must acknowledge our responsibility to comply with the law, however, unappealing, and develop the best possible social situation with.in it. Dan Waible '91 Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis will be held on Feb. 5, 1990 Deadline for Registration in Mrs. Marra's office is Feb. 2 Anyone and everyone is welcome and encouraged to participate in the elections. ALL LETIERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SP A.CED, AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICER Y 4:00 P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORD lEN SIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND THOSE OVER FJVE HUNDRED WORDS: WILL NOT BE . ACCEPTED. Letters 1o the Editor do not necEssarily rEflect the I 0 Opi>DIODS of the Eclitorial Roard ·-~' . ',. ; ' . ,; ., - ~ arllttnl .. · r : : .. ', ' . ' : .. Hditnrs .. m,. .. Cbief . Att€Jtew.suewald, R..'R.eedWhi~n News Editm's Bli$e~y,.fa¥F'<f~d . Feature Etlitors Desmond Ward Suzm1ne8Uaker •man<>natFeatares mditor \' ' A:itlte· siifi~n ~.l;l~:matitmal.FMWtes. Ja(j-r. ··•·· ... · . ;·Micba~l;~betg ···· ScieJ:lce BdittJf. . . Val• ., .a···

\ CONCORDIENSlS, F~bruary 1, 1990 Pag.e 13 WRUC's Bo.ttom Line When With Co- hosts Mark Richter and Nat Keller + will be discussing \Energy Issues\ - with their guests you give blood. you give another birthday, another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. .AQlerlcanRedCroas Please gi\~ blood. Profes~or Shanebrook and Greg Rybarczyk :fuis .Sunday on 89,7 FM at 9 PM CaU in at370-6151 or 6154 to have your questions or concerns addressed ()Il the air, - SUMMER. RESEARCH UNDERG RADU·ATE FE·LLOWSHI'PS Bloodmobiles are being held at Old Chapel from 11:30 to 5:30p.m. on the following dates: AVAILABLE Wednesday, February 21, 1990 Sponsor group: Theta Delta Chi Contact person: Brendan Clifford 386-4105 Once again Union- College will s4pport an undergraduate summer research fellowship ' · program w'lich Will allow students to work directly with a faculty sponsor on .a faculty . Thursday, February 22, 1990 Sponsor group: Psi Upsilon · · research pr , ct. This is the fif.th year of, the program, and we have enough .funds from the · . college, the Dana, Hughes and Surdna Foundations to award about 40 fellowships in an . ar.eas of the college. Summer students will receive f.ree housing. fmm the college as well · . as stipends of eifhe.r $1500 or $2000, depending on what type of fellowship is awarded; · . ohly students eligible for financral aid can be awrded the $2000 stipend. Students from all Contact person: Nick Baratoff 386-4 307 Friday, February 23, .1990 . Sponsor group: Delta Gamma Contact person: Amy Joslin 386-4373 · areas of the college, along with their faculty sponsors, are invited to apply. Applications . and further information can be obtained from Peofessor Tobiessen in Room 8324, S&E · Center. Completed applications should be handed .in to Professor Tobiessenby noon on ·• Friday, March 2nd, in the ninth week of the term. Awards will be announced in tile tenth · · : week of winter te~m. Students graduating in June, 1990, are riot ·eligible for this program. ~~when I call Mom h . h . ' s e ett .er wants to talk art or football. Usually football?' Also donors can stop by Room 408, College Center to sign up for bloodmobiles. Gu ahead, call ht:r up and let her know the score. A 10-minute coas.t-to-coa:-,t call, dialed direct anytime, any Jay with AT&T, costs .Jess than $3.00.* And with fast connections and immedi- ate credit for wrong numberi,, how can vou miss? ·For more inf<>rmation on AJ&T Long Distance Sen ice, and products like the A1&T Card, call 1800 525-7955, Ext. 100. *Add'apphcahlc 1axe' and ;urtha(ge'. ATa.T The right choice. ·,

CONCORDlENSIS, February 1, 1990 WRUC's The Bottom Line with Co-hosts Mark Richter and Nat Keller will be discussing \Energy Issues\ with theii guests Professor Shanehrook and Greg Rybarczyk this S1lll.day on 89.7 FM at 9 PM Call in at 370-6151 or 6154 to have your questions or concerns addressed on the air. When you give blood. you give another birthday, another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. Page 13 + American Red Cross Plea5e gilr bkxxi SUMMER RESEARCH UNDERGRADUAT'E FELLOWSH 1 1PS Bloodmobiles are being held at Old Chapel from 11:30 to 5:30p.m. on the following dates: AVAILABLE Wednesday, February 21, 1990 Sponsor group: Theta Delta Chi Contact person: Brendan Clifford 386-4105 Thursday, February 22, 1990 Sponsor group: Psi Upsilon Once again Union College will ·support an undergraduate summer research fellowship program w.,ich will allow students to work directly with a faculty sponsor on a faculty r.esearch pr . ct. This is the fifth year of the program, and we have enough funds from the college, the Oana, Hughes andSurdna Foundations to award about 40 fellowships in all ar:eas of the college. Summer students will receive free housing from the college as well as stipends of eifher $1500 or $2000, depending on what type of fellowship is awarded; only students eligible .for financial aid can be awrded the $2000 stipend. Students from all areas of the college, along with their faculty sponsors, are invited to apply. Applications and further information can be e>btained from Peofessor Tobiessen in Room S324, S&E Contact person: Nick Baratoff 386-4307 Friday, February 23, 1990 Sponsor group: Delta Gamma Contact person: Amy Joslin 386-4373 · Center. Completed applications should be handed in to Professor Tobiessen by noon on Friday, March 2nd, in the ninth week of the term. Awards will be announced in the tenth . week of winter term. Students graduating in June, 1990, are not eligible for this program. Also donors can stop by Room 408, College Center to sign up for bloodmobiles . ~~when I call Mom, she either wants to talk art or footbalL Usually football?~ (j() ahead. L;tll ht'l up ;md ll't her kno\\' the ~tc Jtt· :\ HJ minute ClJa~t tu u Kl'>t call. diJhl dit\l\Cl ;111\lltlll', Jll\ dJ\ \\ ith Al~'\:l co'>t'> k·~:-.'than ~.)Jilt ,\.nd \Vith bo.,tcc >l11K'ctir >11'\> and imml'di ate ut'llit ti >r '' n lllg numht·ro.,. h1 )\\ can You mh..,:- lx>r mort· intimnttic >11 c m A7c:rf.r,1~f!, I H1lm1ce .~en·1ce, and product.., like thL· .. rn~:u.imt, l all 1 800 '52'5-..,9';'5. Ext. 100. AT•T The right choice. Union ·Terms Abroad lnformation Meetings ~llrusday Feb. 1 at 4:30p.m. Look for

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, .F ~iJruary 1,. 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Sounds From Ages Past Come to Cabaret's Future, Freshman Matthew Gre:e;ne, Delights with Dulcimer By R. REED WHID'DEN Editor-i.n~C hief Introducing to the crowd at Cabaret on Thursday night a bizarre instrument, Matthew Greene, '93 played a few beautiful, enchanting pieces on his dulcimer. Greene prefaced his performance with a background of the dulcimer. He made the particular one he would play, just as he had composed the melodies he would play qn it. Greene constructed his dulcimer during the summer of 1983. It is made from two grades of pine which is an easy wood with which to work. :rt is fretted and is strung with four strings. He plays,it with either a pick or with a bar. The bar offers a sound similar to the citar~ what Greene classifies as a \a twangy sound,\ While the dulcimer was new to the audience at Cabaret, it is truly quite an ancient· musical instrument, Greene al,so mentioned. Originating ,in the Renaissance, its home is in the Appalachians. A cousin to the psaltery, the zither, aad hammered dulcimer which are Greene's two musical outlets - the 12 stril'lg guitar and Appalachian dulcimer. of Asian ongm, this instrument varies slightly from these in design and in the In Memorial Chapel Come See Hugh Wilson on Key! (perfonning his great organ masterworks!) T on Feb. 7, 14,21,28 March 7 & !4 from 12:30- 1:15PM H A S A T A technique of play.. Raiher than trapezoidal in sllajpe, Gree11e's dulcimer is slen<let and curved (resembling more,lJLe hasic line of another stringed :instrument, the vi>Olin). Greene himselfhll!l never fuad format dulcimer les:sons, 11or has he had fotmai ;training for his alternate i!IS'lrument the twelve sting guitm::; Greene has been involved in music for the last ten yea1s., and he attributes his imerest in the dulcimer to a camp counsel&r. He has also fouiJd inspiration in a variety ,of musical categories, as well as musical group~. He was atfirstt·attracted to follk music ana :artists such as Woody Guthrrie. His spectrum has swu11g IllS wide as to include heavr metal and performers sucl:a as Ozzy Osbourne and Motley Crew .. This young, ne~N additioll to Thur~day night C1aboarets bas drawm his musical :philosophy from these differeJJt musi1:al sources, as well. For Gree11e music has \alwa)'s been a hobby.\ He commell.ts~ \I do it becau:se I enjoy it. I h.ave never had any expectatioms frmn music.'' He reli e:s less «>n music: theory, an<! more on his emotions as a method of composition, whi~h he diSCO'Vers, brings nii.m into the new age musi.c rearm. \ImpressionisUc'\ is the Freshman Matthew Greene with his homemade dulcimer. description he gives to his own music. Greene finds himself recording most of what he writes as soon as it is created because he \hardly ever writes the stuff down.\ Greene and his odd musical instrument were in line with four other performers at the Cabaret. The Dutch Pipers staJted the evening off with a mix of their new and classic repertoire. Becker Thayer added some culture with french songs imported from her term abroad. A spin-off from the Dutch Pipers sarig accompanied by a graduate student at Union, Scott Hadley. The final act was the ever famous Jared Blume, who performed tunes of the Doors, Neil Young, and his own work. Matthew Greene is an Electrical Engi11eer and hopes in the future to work toward a he.aHhier envirc.nment. At the moment his hopes are to keep playing at Cabaret,· and he will tonight at 9:00pm. Cabaret was a wonderful success Thursday, ~nd will be held every Thll1sday night in College Cent~r room 302. Allison Drescher and Christos Nikolis, chairs of the Social Committee, organize the info1lllal performances. In an intimate setting they provided free wings, pizza, .soda and fine entertainment. A 'Wonder'-ful Alternative By KIRK JH .. EEMER In my endless search for an altern:ative eatingex:p.erience in Sche11ectady. IhaPJ)ened to find myself on State Street headi11g north. Not being able to make a left onto Nott Street, I pulled into an empty poo~fing lot to turn around and ooak:e a right. To my great sm;ptise it just happened to be tbe poarking lot for Wonderburger, a 24-hour food joint I heard ltOts abcut but never tried. I d.ecided not to fight fate and entere!(l tlhe warld of culinary superi()rit;r. As :soon as l open:ed the door I couldn't help lJ111i :sease tbe 1970 1 S aurora. I felt like Lee Majors. There we•e ol'lly three people in the resta.wrant and all of them staring at me. Bdmg shy I put my hea.d down a11d concentrated on Lhe music. It was a terrific 011)\ :LtOmbar.di song. I thought to myself how great it would be if I actually knew the words an<l could sing along .. Finally I to-o:k a counter seat between an elderly man and a young woman. In no time, the cook walked up to me and asked what I wanted. Looking over the inenu, which was located three thousand feet above sea level, and digging into my pocket to find the $3.18 that had to last me till next week - f said, \chilli and a coke please.\ The cook turned around and began to prepare my order, while for the fourth time in a row, the woman next to me asked- if I wanted a good time. Waiting for my dinner gave me a chance to analyze the decor of the restaurant. It definitely made use of Frill architecture and seemed to be rn()dcled after the Jetson's living room. Just as I was about to feel the linoleum table the man next to me began to mumble about the engineering involved in making license plates. At the same time, the cook began to talk about the evils of the computer. Feeling left out of the conversation, I began to explain sexual preferences displayed by wild bors in captivity, which I had just learned about on the Discovery Channel. We all came to an agreement somewhere, but I can't remember whatit was. Tbe chilli fin~lly arrived. I sti:tted the contents feverishly. fearing that it wculd solidify if left alone. I alsc searched for beef among the millions of chilli beans only to find one or two grinds which seemed misplaced and lonely. Then. with astonishment, I watched the cook pass by the soda fountain and pollf me a glass of Price Shopper soda from a bottle. I began to e2t my dinner. The chilli was great and the soda was soda. When I was finished I said good-bye to my three friends and drove my car home satisfied that I had quenched my thirst with an alternative eating experience. REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY. . ' FEBRUARY5 ,SS 016 at 8 & 10 PM ADMISSION: $1 TICKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 ¥ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ------------------------------------------------------------------- Sounds From Ages Past Come to Cabaret's Future Freshman Matthew Greene Delights with Dulcimer By R. REED WHIDDEN Editor-in-Chief Introducing to the crowd at Cabaret on Thursday night a bizarre instrument, Matthew Greene, '93 played a few beautiful, enchanting pieces on his dulcimer. Greene prefaced his performance with a background of the dulcimer. He made the particular one he would play, just as he had composed the melodies he would play on it. 0 a: ~ 0 :c z &5 ::::i -' <t fO 0 0 :c a.. Greene constructed his dulcimer during the summer of 1983. It is made frcm two grades of pine which is an easy wood with which to work. It is fretted and is strung with four strings. He plays it with either a pick or with a bar. The bar offers a sound similar to Lhe citar, what Greene classifies as a \a twangy sound.\ While the dulcimer was lilew to the audience at Cabaret, it is truly quite an ancient musical instrument, Greene also mentioned. Originating in the Renaissance, its home is in the Appalachians. A cousin to the psaltery, the zither, and hammered dulcimer which are Greene's two musical outlets - the 12 string guitar and Appalachian dul~imer. of Asian ongm, this instrument varies slightly from these in design and in the In Memorial Chapel Come See Hugh Wilson on Key! (perfonning his great organ masterworks!) on Feb. 7, 14, 21, 28 March 7 & !4 from 12:30- 1:15PM T I C i R K E N I A R S N A S s s technique of play. Rather than trapezoidal in shape, Greet1c's dulcimer is slender ru~d curved (resembling more the basic line of another stringed instrument, the violin). Greene himself has never llad formal dulcimer lessons, lilOr has he had fonnal training for his alternate instrument the twelve sting guitar. Greene has been involved in music for the last ten years, and he attributes his interest in the dulcimer to a camp counselor. He has also found inspiration in a vartety of musical categories, as well as musical groups. He was at first attracted to folk music and artists such as Woody Gurhrie. His spectrum has swung as wide as to include heavy metal and performers such as Ozzy Osbourne and Motley Crew. This young, new addition to Thursday night Cabarets has drawn his musical philosophy from these different musical sources, as well. For Greene music has \always been a hobby.\ He comments, \I do it because I enjoy it. I have never had any expectations from music.\ He relies less on music theory. and more on his emotions as a method of compostUon, which he discovers, brings him into the new age music realm. \Impressionistic\ is the Freshman Matthew Greene with his homemade dulcimer. description he gives to his own music. Greene finds himself recording most of what he writes as soon as it is created because he \hardly ever writes the stuff down.\ Greene and his odd musical instrument were in line with four other performers at the Cabaret. The Dutch Pipers started the evening off with a mix of their new and classic repertoire. Becker Thayer added some culture with french songs imported from her term abroad. A spin-off from the Dutch Pipers sang accompanied by a graduate student at Union, Scott Hadley. The final act was the ever famous Jared Blume, who performed tunes of the Doors, Neil Young, and his own work. Matthew Greene is an Electrical Engineer and hopes in the future to work toward a healthier environment. At the moment his hopes are to keep playing at Cabru:et, and he will tonight at 9:00 pm. Cabaret was a wonderful success Thursday, and wiH be held every Thursday night in College Center room 302. Allison Drescher and Christos Nikolis, chairs of the Social Committee, organize the informal performances. [n an intimate setting they provided free wings, pizza, soda and fine entertainment. A 'Wonder' -ful Alternative By KIRK BLEEMER In my endless search for an alternative eating experience in Schenectady .1 happened to fmd myself on State Street heading north. Not being able to make a left onto Nott Street, I pulled into an empty parking lot to turn around and make a right. To my great surprise it just happened to be the parking lot for Wondcrburgcr, a 24-hour food joint I heard lots about but never tried. I decided not to fight fate and entered the world of culinary superiority. As soon as I opened the door I couldn't help but sense the 1970's aurora. 1 felt like Lee Majors. There were only three people in the restaurant and all of them staring at me. Being shy I put my head down and concentrated on the music. It was a terrific Guy Lombardi song. I thought to myself how great it would be if I actually knew the words and could sing along. Finally I took a counter scat between an elderly man and a young woman. In no time, the cook walked up to me and asked wilat I wanted. Looking over the menu. which was located three thousand feet above sea level, and digging into my pocket to find the $3.18 that had to last me till next week - I said, \chilli and a coke please.\ The cook turned around and began to prepare my order, while for the fourth time in a row. the woman next to me asked if I wanted a good time. Waiting for my dinner gave me a chance to analyze the decor of the restaurant. It definitely made use of Frill architecture and seemed to be modeled after the Jetson's living room. Just as I was about to feel the linoleum table the man next to me began to mumble about the engineering involved in making license plates. At the same time, the cook began to talk about the evils of the computer. Feeling left out of the conversation, I began to explain sexual preferences displayed by wild bors in captivity. which [ had just learned about on the Discovery Channel. We all came to an agreement somewhere, but I can't remember what it was. The chilli finally arrived. I stirred the contents feverishly, fearing that it would solidify if left alone. I also searched for beef among the millions .of chilli beans only to find one or two grinds which seemed misplaced and lonely. Then, with astonishment, I watched the cook pass by the soda fountain and pour me a glass of Price Shopper soda from a bottle. I began to eat my dinner. The chilli was great and the soda was soda. When I was finished I said good-bye to my three friends and drove my car home satisfied that I had quenched my thirst with an alternative eating experience. REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY, FEBRUARY5 SS 016 at 8 & 10 PM ADMISSION: $1 TICKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH

CQNCOR.JlTENSJS, Febr:uary 1, 1990 Page 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT C:an Women Really Find Themselves Through· Menstruation? The.SacredPeriod: A Menstrual,tourney A Review By JULIE MEDOW I sat ill the Old Chapel with my roommate and approximately fifteen other women. There were only two men pn~sent at this poetry reading, and in any other given circumstance, this would probablr be '-'Jlisidered as sotnethin~ strange. But when the poet is Judith Barr, and the topic is. ''Sacred Peri:od: A M~nstru!tl Journey to Reclaim our .. Dee{) Feminine Selves,\ it is. amaziag that there were any men at all. I mean, if I were a man, this would not only be of no conce:m to me, but the title would probably scare me away, even if I thought it was . remotely interesting. The chairs in the room were set. up in concentric circles, and we were greeted with \Hello! Please take a pamphlet, and sit in the iniler circle.\ I don't like to pass judgements, but I thought I was going to be given a robe.. have my head shaved. 11nd toid to sell roses on street corners and in major international airports. As the aftemoo11 progressed, I was almost certain that I would . never be able to contaet my parents again. Needless to say, things got pretty weird, and I was sorry that I had agreed to . take this assignment from my OOitor. I wanted bo be o~il'-Dlinded; I wanted to be a good joumalis~. but J uditb EaiT made me paranoid. I IJeg:an to wonder,. do women really feel th.at mlt of tollcb with themselves and their ]JLace in society that they m11st resort to \reclaiming\ sometbin~ that they never should have lost? Ca.n our \deep feminiae ~elve8' be traced to that on~ aspect of Dur lives? And later that aight, I ·came up with the ans-wer to these questions~ Yes an.d: no .. I cannot truly believ~ that m~>st women need to find their identity through a rit~listic \men£trual journey\. Corne on, wllen things are bad i11 yollt -rives, women reader.;, do you e-ver stop and say,. \w~u. at least I got my period?•• And how many of your male friends st<>p you on a daily basis professing their jea.lottsy towards you because tll.eydon't get cramped, bloated., and emotional? (Notice how I didn't say \moody\.) There is much m<>re to. a modern W()men's life than just remembering; \our menstrual period, Our ve1y own/ embodied/ rell)indet/ from deep within/ of who we are/ in dance and song/ body and ')Old .... II But believe it or n()t, ·there is some truth to Juditll 'J3:arr's --~-- I I I I ·I 'CLIP·N·SAVE- --·- --. .. •• I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I WRUC a~. 7 fm STEREO • •I'HIE FIRST STATION IN THE NATIGN\' Who the hell is John W.asfey Harding1!? So he makes an acoustic remake of Madonna's \Like a Prayer~~. So the DJ's play it over 10 times. So John Wes.ley Harding is number one. Look for the Creatur:es to take- ()Ver, without running into y.our apartment· and eating the cereal. Thank you. Artist 1. Jol1n Wesley Hard.ing 2. Sinead O'Connor 12;' 3. They Might be Giants 4. The Creatures 5. The Pixies 6. The Psych. Furs 7. The Farmers 8. Len11y Kravitz 8.97 The Fundamentals Title Here Comes the Groom· \Nothing- Compares 2 U\' Flood Boometang Live Booy Of Days Flames of love let Love Rule Feeling Strange !...able Sire Cnrysalis Eiel<tra Geffen Elektra Columbia Pravda Virg.in P.O.S 1 Eyebrow Raiser: \DeHverance\ The Missi:on UK I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I' i I 1: I Progra.mming Notes: 1 1 Trivia is exploding. Hoc~ey is e~~~o~ing. So it 1 makes sense that the,re 1s now tnvra 1n ho~key. I Tune in and win aT-Shirt. 1 ·- - -- .. llllllill- 1111111- tllllira--- _, -· \call''. Men have a common saying (}{\Be a Man,\ or \Act like a Man.\ This command can l>e texecuted in many ways, dependirtg on rh<- circusmtancc and tile individual man. Wome111 don't have many ways in wllic:b. they can \Act like a Woman,·• especially now when the rche of women seems to become hath more clear and more ambig!Jous every day. Perhaps if yon bare down to the basics of life, (and bare with me for a moment), there is re.ally only one role for women, and that is childbirth. The ability tQ carry a little thing within you for nine .montbs:, and then have it give your grief for years afterwards, is to h·e a woman, is it not? And, altl1ough I hate to admit it, suffering through the disc&mfarts of PMS and MS are all worth it in the final analysis. I felt s<>rry for those two men trllp]Jed in the Old Chapel with Judith Barr last Tuesday aftemo()n. I even felt sorry for myself. The thing that is bugging me the most is that I · respect luditb. Barr. I don't like her r~pititi()US and highly al1itera.ted poetry. or her preac.biny whining tone. But she has. f&und herself, and she 'deeply llelieves in her work and in t11e \Goddess\ of menstr11ation. Now how can you find fault with anyone who is hap]ly- · physica.Ily, spiritually, andemotionaUy? :Best of the Best Ski Patrol The Little Mermaid Steel Magnolias Back to the Future II Tremors Tango and ·Cash HOROSC'OPES BY \A\ A.QU ARIUS: Unfortunately 1his w_eek i!? looking grim for Aquarians. Youtbest bet would be to do same good for others. In that case, at least the week won't :l>e a total loss. PISCES: You party animal! Hey, J know you are having a great time, but eventually you are going to have to face your work loa<!. Ease .up on the partying, your behavior may soon prove detrimental to your reputatior:~. ARIES: Aries tend to do everything i11 extreme. Either you are entirely abstainiog from s.ex and social life or you are overindulging. It is time to find a happy medium and to stop feeling so much self·pity: TAURUS: Your social life has been pretty pathetic. lately, huh? Maybe you have .just realized What you always took .for granted as \a fun time\ truly is not enough. Work hard -· your academics will definitely pay off! GEMINI: Feeling bored? Consider \'isi1ing a friend at ar:~other college or ·exploring social alternatives to fraternity parties. You may oegin to f.eel very frustrated and limited by Union's small campus and student body. CANCER: Although you are born under the sig.n of Gancer there is no excuse for why you have been acting like sucll a crab! Concentrate on your academics. this term will be your best yet! lEO: Although it is a positive characteristic of Leos to be determined, sometimes you must kn()W when it is time to give up and move on. The com in g. weekertd will be a good one. VIRGO: This week it would be a good idea to get all your work done early on so that during the weekend you can rage! Consider getting in touch with an oJd f.riend or a distanced family member. LIBRA: This is a difficult time for libras to be romantically involved with someone. Be careful that you are not unintentionaJiy hurting someone with your actions. SCORPIO: Scorpios tend to be p.assionate and impulsive. This may occasionally cause you to have a violent temper. Mellow out!!! Incidentally, you ar·~ at your monthly sexual peak. Do not waste it! SAGITTARIUS:. This is the per1ect time for getting romantically involved. It is a romanti~time of year, the Union social life is deteriorating, and you are finally mentally ready. However, do not plunge into anything to quickly! ·cAPRICORN: This week you must f)U1 all other things aside and catch up on all of your work. After tfl e week is over try to develop a healthy balance between y()ur work and social life. You always ~eem to over-indulge in one or the other. Born on the 4th of July Glory Driving ·Miss Daisy Always All Dogs Go to Heaven 'fhe Music Box War of the Roses WEEKEND MOVIES ~~Honey I Shrunk The Kids\ 7, 9, 11 MONDAY'S MOVIE ~'Rebel Without a Cause\ 8 & 10 .·

CONCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 Page IS ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT Can Women Really Find Themselves Through Menstruation? HOROSCOPES BY \A\ AQUARIUS: Unfortunately this week is looking grim for Aquarians. Your best bet would be to do some good for others. In that case, at least the week won't be a total loss. The Sacred Period: A Menstrual Journey PISCES: You pality animal! Hey, I know you are having a great time, but eventually you are going to have to face your work load. Ease up on the partying, your behavior may soon prove detrimental to your reputation. A Review editor. By .JULIE MEDOW I wanted bo be open-minded. I sat in the Old Chapel with I wanted to be a good m y roommate and journalist, hut Judith Barr made ap~roximately fiftee11 other me paran()id. I began to women. There were only two wonder, do women really feel men present at this poetry that out of touch with reading, and in any oth<:r given themselves and their place in circumstance, 'his would society that they must resort to probably be . , .nsidered as \reclaiming\ something that something strange. But when they never should have lost? the poet is Judith Barr, a.nd the Can our \deep feminine selve8' topic is \Sacred Period: A be traced w that one aspect of Menstrual Journey to Reclaim our lives? And later that night, our. Deep Feminine Seives,\ it I came UJ!' with the answer to is amazing that there were any these questions. Yes and no. men at all. I mean, if I were a I cannot truly believe that man, this would not only be of most worne11 need to find their no concern to me, but tbe title identity Huo11gh a ritualistic would probably scare me away, \mem.trual journey\. Come on, even if I thought it was when things are bad in your remotely interesting. The lives, women readers, do you chairs in the room were set up ever stop and say, \well at in concentric circles, and we least I got my period?\ And were greeted with \Hello! how many of your male friends Please take a pamphlet, and sit stop you an a daily basis in the inner circle.\ I d<Jn't like professing their jealousy to pass judgements~ but I towards you because they don't thought I was going to be get cramped, bloated, aHd given a robe, have my head emotional? (Notice how I didn't shaved, and told to sell roses say \moody·'.) There is much on street comers and i11 major more to a modern women's life international airports. As the than just remembering \our afternoon progressed, I was menstrual period, Our very almost certain that I would own/ embodiecJ/ reminder/ from never be able to contact my deep within/ of who we are/ in parents again. Needless to say, dance and song/ body and things got pretty weird, and I ~oul....\ was sorry that I had agreed to But believe it or not, there is take this assignment from my some truth to Judith Barr's ----- 'CLIP-N-SAVE---- -~ I I I I I WRUC I ·. ll 11 ! 89.7 fm STEREO u 5 I I I lfjTHE FIRST STATION IN TtiE NATION\ I I I I I Who the hell is John Wesley Harding?!? So I he makes an acoustic remake of Madonna's 1 I \Like a Prayer··. So the DJ's play it over 10 I I times. So John Wesley Hardi11g is number one. Look for the Creatures to take over, I I without running into your apartment and 1 1 eating the cereal. Thank you. I I Artist Title Lable 1 1. John Wesley Harding Here Comes the Groom Sire I 2. Sinead O'Connor 12\ \Nothing Compares 2 U\ Chrysalis I I 3. They Might be Giants Flood Elef<tra 4. The Creatures Boomerang Geffen I 1 5. The Pixies Live Elektra 11 6. The Psych. Furs Sooy Of Days Columbia • I 7. The Farmers Flames of Love Pravda 1 8. Lenny Kravitz Let Love Rule Virgin I 8.97 The Fundamentals Feeling Strange P.O.S 1 I I I I I I I Eyebrow Raiser: \Deliverance\ The Mission UK Programming Notes: . . . Trivia is exploding. Hockey 1s explodmg. So 1t makes sense that there is novv trivia in hockey. Tune in and win aT-Shirt. i I I I I I ---------·----- -I \call\. Men have a common saying of \Be a Man,\ or \Act like a Man.\ This command can be executed in many ways, depending on thr circusmtancc and the individual man. Women don't have many ways in which they can \Act like a Woman,'' especially now when the role of women seems to become both more clear and more ambiguous every day. Perhaps if you bare down to the basics of life, (and bare with me for a moment), there is really only one role for women, and that is childbirth. The ability to carry a little thing within you for nine months, and then have it give yoi:Lf grief for years afterwards, is to be a woman, is it not? And, although I hate to admit it, suffering through the discomforts of PMS and MS are all worth it in the final analysis. 1 felt sorry for those two men trapped in the Old Chapel with Judith Barr last Tuesday afternoon. I even felt sorry for myself. The thing that is bugging me the most is that I respect Judith Barr. I don't like her repititious and highly alliterated poe try. or h cr preaching/ whining tone. But she has found herself, and she deeply believes in her work and in the \Goddess\ of menstruation. Now how can you find fault with anyone who is happy- physically, spiritually, and emotionally'? Ski Patrol The Little Mermaid Steel Magnolias Back to the Future II Tremors Tango and Cash ARIES: Aries tend to do everything in extreme. Either you are entirely abstailling from sex and social !He or you are overindulging. It is time to find a happy medium and to stop feeling so much self-pity: TAURUS: Your social life has been pretty pathetic lately, huh? Maybe you have just realized what you always took for granted as \a fun time\ truly is not enough. Work hard -- your academics will definitely pay off! GEMINI: Feeling bored? Consider visiting a friend at another college or exploring social alternc.tives to fraternity parties. You may begin to feel very frustrated and limited by Union's small campus ar:id student body. CANCER: Alth()ugh you are born under the sign of Cancer there is no exca se for why you have beell acting like such a crab! Concentrate on your academics, this term will be your best yet! LEO: Although it is a positive characteristic of Leos to be determined, sometimes you must know when it is time to give up and move on. The coming weekend will be a good one. VIRGO: This we.ek it would be a good idea to get all your work done early on so that during the weekend you can rage! Consider getting in touch with an old friend or a distanced family member. LIBRA: This is a difficult time for Libras to be romant1cally involved with someone. Be careful that you are not unintentionally hurting someone with your actions. SCORPIO: Scorpios tend to be passionate and impulsive. This may occasionally cause you to have a violent temper. Mellow out!!! Incidentally, you ar·:~ at your monthly se)(Ulal peak. Do not waste it! SAGITTARilJlS: This is the perfect time for getting romantically invGJivoed. It is a romantic time of year, the Union social life is deteriorating, and you are finally mentally ready. However, do not plunge into anything to quickly I CAPRICORN: This week you must put all other things aside and catch up on all of your work. After the week is over try to develop a healthy balance between your work and social Ide You always seem to over-indulge in one or the other. B0rn on the 4th of J uJy Glory Driving Miss Daisy Always All Dogs Go to Heaven The Music Box War of the Roses WEEKEND MOVIES \Honey I Shrunk The Kids\ 1' 9, 11 MONDAY'S MOVIE \Rebel Without a Cause\ 8 & 10 Social Aternatives in the Capital District Saratoga ....... Caffa Lena, Saturday, February :;rd Albany muslcians Steve and Betsy Frye will perform a children's concert at 2 p.m. Reservations are suggested. Call Caffe Lena at 583-()022. CClver charr;~e .is 1$3.0() for children and adults. Schenectady UnlonCaU&ge, Wednesday, February 7th - Hugh Wilson will perform his organ masterworks in Memorial ChapeL Performances are .from 12;3()..1 :15 p.m. . -Uniog College. Thursday, February 8th , • . . . . . ..... Dr. Walter J. Turnbull, founder and executtve d1rector .of the Boys Chotr of Harlem, wtll speak on the work of the choir in a talk titled, \Making A Oifferenoe.• The talk will be at 4:30p.m. in the Co!~a.ge . Center Auditorium. Turnbull and tha cholr have recelved nath:mal and lntatnaticnal recogn!Hon !or i. t~~lf. ability to $RC0Utaga youth$ tO taka their liV~$ ira pl)SitiVoQ dirao'tlons. . ·-:; .··· ·.·l ·.:~:;.i.-::1::.;: ..... .::.\\~ .. :-:· :· • .;;;.,' ..• '' '..'W ,• \·' ,• ·.• ,.,, ... •

. Page 16 SEE YOURSELF IN, AIR FORCE ROTC FOR 1HE PICTURE OF SUCCESS. See yourself becoming a leader, graduating from college as an Air Force officer with fully developed qualities of character and managerial ability. Notice, too, the opportunities: like eligibility for scholarship programs that can pay tuition, textbooks, fees ... even $100 in tax-free income each academic month. Visualize a crisp uniform that reflects your pride in yourself and your ability to accept challenge. Get the picture? Now make a call: .. CAPT DAVID MILEWSKI DET 550-518-276-6236 -------- -------- - -~ .._. ,...___ ~- -.. = ====-=--.r - .--.. ~- -.. .................. Ill\ \ .. > .. Aft c • ....,. --· __.... ~~~~ ~ Leadership Excellence Starts Here CQNCORDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 INFORI\1ATION_ MEETIN.GS FOR UNION TERMS ABROAD Thursday, Feb., 1, 4:30PM· FALL TERM . C;hi:na .. C!. G I •• Cl! ••••••• I •••••••••••• & I. (Nanjing) .... Q•l. ~ ••••• 0 •••••.••••• ss·ot4 En:glmld ......................... e ·• II •• ,. ( 13 a th) .... Ql ~ • 0 0 ....... ~ ~ •.••• 0 •••• ft •• Hu·0·19 : *England ............................. (York) (see below) , · Frmce.,. .. 'll ............................ ·(Retmes ........................... HU115 \ It a 1 y .... ,, .............................. {Fl. orence) ...................... , , .. s·so16 Japan ............................•.... (Osaka) ............. , .. _ ... ,,, ........ SS012 . WINTER TERM ·Greece ...... ,, ......................... (A t·h,e n s) .........•........••.•...• \S 14 Israel ................................. (Beer Sheva) ......•............. SSl03 . Mexico ................................ (Cuemavaca) ................... HU112 SPRING TERM Gennany ....... - ...................... (Freiburg) ........................ SSO 10 · Marine Studies ...................... SS 110 4 SUMMER TERM Socialized Medicine . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .......... ~ ......................... HU 114 . (England, Holland, Hungary) *York, England will meet Monday, Feb. 5 at 4:30 in HU 112. Culinary Date: Feb. 7, 1990 Place: Hale House Time: 6:00-9:00 PM Dinner: by famous China Pavilion Menu: Nibbler: - Crispy Golden Triangle Soup: - Asparagus with Seafood· Appetizer: - Spicy Shrimp Entrees: - Tangerine Beef Crispy Chicken Yung Chow Fried Ric~ Dessert: ~ Eight Treasure Rice Pudding Faculty, Administration, Staff@ $12.95 with ID.

CONCORDIENSIS, FeiJruary 1, 1990 P~ge 17 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Union Terms Abroad Information Meetings T_h·ursday, Febr,uary 1 at 4:30' p.m. Look for announcements of .locations. When Computer Experts Bein·g Sou~ght to Aid Non-Profit Agencies . A Union College ~omputer science professor is seeking computer experts who would like to volunteer time to assist non-profit organizations. David'· Hannay has established an organization called CompuTutot that would make available, at no charge, computer experts to teach non- profit organizations to make more efficient use of their computer equipment. \The experts would donate a couple of hOurs a week-- or whatever amount of time they • wish-- to help out some great people already volunteering in our community, ... said Hannay. CompuTutor is seeking computer professionals from both the business and academic community. CompuTutor is modeled on a SanFrancisco, CA organization ca1led CompuMentor~ which currently is matching 250 mentors to 175 community organizations. Hannay. a Westerlo resident, said the declining prices of computers are increasing the number of non-·profit organizations that have computer equipment. Hannay said he has been interested in creating an organization such as CompuTutor for the past 10 years and new of CompuMentor's work provided him with a working model. C~mputer p,rofessionals interested in Joining CompuTutor may contact Hannay at the Computer Science Department, Union College, Schenectady, N.Y. 12308 (370 .. 6530). you give blood you give another birthcfaYr another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. Bloodmobiles are being held at Old Chapel from ll:30to 5:30p.m. on the following-dates: Wednesday, February 21, 1990 Sponsor group: Theta Delta Chi Centact person: Brendan Clifford 386-4105 Thursday, February 22, 1990 Sponsor group: Psi Upsilon Contact person: Nick Baratoff 386A307 Friday, February 23, 1990 Sponsor group: Delta Gamma + .American Red Cross Please gile blood Contact person:. Amy Joslin 386-4373 Als~ donors can stop by Room 408, College Center to sign up for bloodmobiles. Union College Students Inducted Into Computer Honor Society Seven Unio.n College sludents and three alumni have been inducted into the College's recently founded chapter of Upsilon Pi Epsilon, the national computer science honor society~ The ten, along with five of the College's computer science faculty who were not members of UPE, were inducted during a Novemper 10 ceremony establishing the Union chapter, the Theta Chapter of New York State. Students m~uonng in computer sciences are inducted into the society based on their grade-point averages both in computer science and overall and their agreement to adhere to the principles and ideals of the society, including its ethical standards. Professor David G. Hannay of Westerlo, chairman of the Computer Science Department at the College, said the new chapter is one way to recognize the achievements of the top students and shows student interest in maintaining high ethical as well as academic standards. \The new chapter is a significant event in computer science at Union, which established a computer science program in 1970,\ said Hannay. The College offers bachelor's and master's degrees in computer science and a master's degree in computer management systems. The students inducted are as follows: - Deborah F. Atwood of Natick, MA, a member of the Class of 1990 majoring in biology as well as computer science; - Candy Lynn Butts of Genesco, NY, a member of the Class of 1990; - E11iot P. Olschwang of Mamru:oncck, NY, a member of the Class of 1990 majoring in mathematics as well as comput:er science; - Nancy S. Rothberg of Stony Br()ok, NY, a member of the Class of 1990 majoring in electrical engineering as well as computer science; · - lJavid E. Sloat of West Hartford, CN, a member of the Class of 1990; _ -Gregory A Falcigno of Silver Spring, MD, a member of the Class of 1991 majoring in electrical engineering as well as computer science; and - John E. Murphy of Schenectady, a member of the Class of 1991. The three alumni members are Clui stopher Geib of Rochester, NY and Bruce Hopkins of Amsterdam, NY, both of whom graduated in 1989, and David Shinberg of Chatham, NJ, a 1988 graduate. Hopkins and Shinberg initialed the efforts to establish a UPE chapter at Union. Summer Student Research Grants Available from $185,000 Grant to Mechanical Engineering from Niagara Mohawk The Niagara Mohawk Corporation, which is a combination electric and gas company and the largest utility in New York State, has awarded a $185,000 grant to the Mechanical Engineering Department of Union College. The Grant will provide $50,000 for equipment for a new Heat Transfer Laboratory, and $135,000 over three years for the support of energy related projects that are of interest to Niagara Mohawk and will be performed by REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY,FEBRUARY5 ss 016 8 & 10 PM ADMISSION: $1 TICKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH Union College faculty and students. Financial support for students performing summer work at Union College on these projects will be provided. The Grant will be administered by the Niagara Mohawk Research and Development Department, whose director, Andrew M. Vesey, is a 1978 Mechanical Engineering graduate of Union College. As a student, Mr. Vesey was directedon his Senior Engineering project by Professor Emeritus William Aubrey, with assistance from Professor Frank Milillo, who is now Chairman of the Mechanical Engineering Department. Professor Milillo provided the initial contacts and leadership for the proposal that was written by Professors C. Subba Reddy and Frank Wicks. Professor Reddy's interests are in the areas of heat transfer, ·Bef9rept Clzssect. .. energy conversion, and solar systems. He is now working on a new concept of a solar energy enhanced wind turbine and also a technique for improving engine efficiency by reducing cylinder cooling requirements. Students arc now performing theoretical and experimental investigations in support of each of these concepts. Professor Wicks has identified four new engine driven systems for electric generation, heating, air conditioning and transportation, that provide substantial fuel conservation benefits relative to existing systems, and that .also can be fueled by natural gas, with the resulting environmental benefits. Several students are now performing projects related to the design, developmellt, and testing of these systems. For more inronnation about humane alternatives to animal dissection in classrooms, CALL TOLL-FREE ifla DISSECI10.V INFOK.HATJON HOlllNE 1/'f) . . ir/- , 1.S00-!)22-FROG(3764) ,-.f l.t,. L,f,--, A stwlent o:ll'rencb project of tJ;e Animallep,al Defense.FJJiui

f\ Page lS CONCORDIENS!S, February 1, 19!)0 ·.cience News Problem of the We~ek Third Probletn: -_ By .OON VALERIO Science & Technology EditDI\ Medical Student Abuse New studies published last week reveal widespread abuse and mistreatment of medical school students. Many students who were interviewed said that they would have chosen an other professionn or had considered dropping out because of verbal, emotional, physical and sexual abuse. Abuse was broadly defined by students, with the major complaints involVing repeated verbal instults, harassment, and denigration by arrogant teachers and occasional physical attacks. In one unidentified medical school at which all students were questioned', 46% of all classes said that .they had been abused at some time, while RO% of fourth year students reported having been abused. Physicians who reported being abused in medical school said that they suffered long term negative effects and that they were less effective in dealing with patients. The author of one of the studies believes that the mistreatment of medical students is \serious but not a huge prcblem.\ He also added that al:luse was a problem for teaching in general and was not limited to medicine. The reports of abuse come at a time of growing concern about a sharp delcine in the number of aJlplicants to medical school. Electronic 'Teaching In Mississippi, where one out of every three adults is functionally illiterate. an ambitious experiment in electronic educ·ation is embarking. The experiment involves putting a.t IBM computer program in every kindergarten and first grade state-wide. The object is to have every child reading and writing before second grade. The new learning program is funded both privately and by the state. The initial results seem to be promising, and educators, politicians and parents are praising the early Widespread cases of the disease were reported in Connecticut, Massachuseetts, New York and fifteen other states. Eighteen states have reported regional outbreaks. Jdealiy, doctors say, it would be- better to have had the flu sh()tS in late November. Shots gi·ven now, however, would take effect in about two weeks, an<! protect anyone exposed to the disease after that. Fluoride Causes Cancer progress. Federal officials have Influenza Epidemic reported tht researchers have fotJnd preliminary evidence that The Centers for Disease fluoride causes cancer in male Control recently declared that a rats. But they cautioned that nationwide influenza epidemic the study does not suggest that exists. The current outbreak is the amount of fluoride in water the most wide-spread a11d toothpaste would also occurrence of the disease in five cwse cancer. years. Studies sponsored by the The epidemic was declared on National Toxicological the basis of deaths reported Program examined 1,360 mice from 121 cities around the a11d· rats. Th.e unexpected country. The number of cases findings showed that some and deaths reported met the cases of b<me cancer might be Center's criteria for an attributed to fluoride-spiked epidemic. water that the animals received Symptoms of the flu include in their diet. a sudden onset of fever, chills, The cancer occurred mostly sore throat. headache, muscle at does that are 50 to 100 times aches and pains, general th.e amount humans ingest · malaise and a dry cough. from water o.r toothpaste. The Simple gastrointestinal upset, re:;earchers stressed that many which has recently affected rn10re tests would have to be many in New York, is c()nducted before any concrete probably caused by viruses or ev-idence linking fluoride with other infections than the flu ca:ncercouldbe found. Find a nine digit number in whic:h each digit from one tlrr:ough nine appears exactly once and which has the property that {read left to rtght) the first two digits form a number divisible by two, the first three digits fonn a number \divisible by three, ... , the first eight digits form a number divisible by eight, and the number itself is. divisible by nine. Is this number unique? .. Congratulations to Wayne Lubil'l for correctly solving • . the first problem of the week and winning the $10 • · prize. Correct solutions were submitted also by Jane · , · Huang and Jessee Hull. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 · · a.m. - 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.'- 4 :p.m., Monday through Friday. The winner of the weekly $10 prize will be selected randomly from those who submitted corect · · solutions by 11 a.m. of the Monday after the problem ·has appeared in Concordiensis. The name of the winner and the names of all others who submit correct .solutions will accompany the following week's problem in the Concordinsls . Ce>rrect solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outflide Bailey 106. unless accompanied by other 1- __ ...,...,. _____ .....,..., ___________ _. ___ ,... ____ .__, influenza symptoms. IEF The flu virus can cause death throu.gh pneumonia, kidn~y faHun!, and heart attack. In the average year, the flu olavs a role in about 20,000 deaths nationwide. The last serious outbrak resulted in 57,400 fatalities. DEADLINE The deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundati<ln in two categories-- student-initiated projects and '!educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, February 16,- 1990. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a. faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should be submitted to the Dean's office (S-1 00, Science & Engineering Building) on forms - available there. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and Similarly, members of the College community who have. \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them 10 the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (81 00). Guidelines with respect to the IEF are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about IEF, the guidelines, or the proposal deadline should be directed to Dean George Butterstein, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgetsi please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $80.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the best rates available. Students Who are planning to do intervieVIS must indicate that arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human stJbjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human SUbjects Research Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. BIOLOGY CLUB present DR. DAVID R. MANN Dept. of Physiology Morehouse School of ME~dicine Atlanta, GA \BONE LOSS RESUL TtNG FROM OVARIAN FAILURE .. Thursday; Feb. 1, 1990 4:40p.m. Social Sciences Rm 112 Refreshments 4:30 CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT SEMINAR Dr. Janet Kaydos Mount Holyoke Co.llege \The Chemistry of Ga~mma­ Ketocyclobutanones\ Friday, February 2 ... 12:30 pm .. NW 222 Refreshments will be provided

Page 18 CONCQRDJENSlS, Felrruary 1, 1990 SCIENCE. & TECHNOLOGY cience News Problen1 of the Week Third Probletn: By DON VALERIO Science & TechnoiO'g:y Editol' Medical St·udent Abuse New studies published last week reveal widespread ;..tbusc and mistreatment of mc<liic~JI sl'honl studcnL'>. Many students who were in!l'rviL·wcd said Lh;lt they would haw choscu an other prokssionn or had considered dropping CJut because of vcrhal, emotional, physical and sexual abuse. Abuse was broadly defined by students, with the major complaints involving repeated verbal instults, harassment, 3nd denigration by arrogant teachers and occasional physical atwcks. In one tmidcntificd medi.cal school at which all students were questioned, 46% of all classes said that they had been ahused at some time, while 800{- of fourth year stud~nts reported having been abused. Physicians who reported being abused in medical school said that they suffered )()n~ term negative effects and tmat they were less effective in dealing with patients. functionally illiterate, an ambitious experiment in electronic education is embarking. The e:xpcriment involves putting an IBM corn puler program in every ki ndcrgartcn and first grade state-wide. The ol>jcct .s to have every child reading and writing before second grade. The new kami11g program is funded hath privare.ly and by th~' state. The initEal .fcsults seem to be promising. and educators, politicians and parcnL~ are praising the early progress. Influenza Epidemic The Centers for Disease Control recently declared that a nationwide influenza epidemic exists. The current m1tbreak is the most wide-spread occurrence of the disease in five years. The epidemic was declare-d on the bJsis of deaths reported from 121 cities around the country. The number of cases and deaths reported met the Center's criteria for an epidemic. Widespread cases ()f the disease were repo()rted in Connectict:It, Massad1 useetts, New York and fifteen other states. Eighteen states have rep<:Jrtcd regional out\)reaks. Ideally, doctors say, it would be better to have had tlle flu shots in late November. Shots given now, however. 'Would take effect in about two weeks, a11d protect anyone exposed to the disease after that.. Fluoride Causes. Calncer Federal officia Is have reported tht rcsearcbers have fot1nd preliminary eviflence that fluoride causes cancer in male rats. But they cauti>Oned that the study does not s11ggest that the amount of fluoriae in water and toothpaste would also catJse cancer. Studies sponsoreod by the National Toxic o ]()g it: a! I>rogmm examined I ,360 mice a11d rats. The une:.xpected findings showed tllat some cases of bone cancer mi.,ght be attributed to fluori.de-spiked water that the animaLs received in their diet. Find a nlne digit number in which each digit from one through nine appears exactly once and which has the property that (read left to right) the first two digits form a number divisible by two, the first three digits form a number 'divisible by three, ... , the first eight digits form a number divisible by eight, and the number itself is divistble by nine. Is this number unique? Congratulations to Wayne Lubin for correctly solving the first problem of the week and winning the $10 prize. Correct solutions were submitted also by Jane Huang and Jessee Hull. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. - 11 a.in. and 2 p.m.' - 4 p.m., Monday througlt Friday. The winner of the weekly $10 prize will be selected randomly from those who submitted corect solutions by 11 a.m. of the Monday after the problem has appeared in Concordlens.is. The name of the winner and the names of all others who submit correct solutions will accompany the following week's problem in the Concordinsis. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. -~-;· . ~ ; - ---: :=: The author of one of the studies believes that the mistreatment of medical students is \serious but not a huge problem.\ He also adcl!ed Lhat abuse was a problem lf(}r Leaching in general and was not limited to medicine. Symptoms of the flu include a sudden onset of fever. chills, sore throat, headaclle, muscle aches and pains, general malaise and a dry cough. Simple gastrointestinal upset, which has recently affected many in New York, is probably caused by viruses or other infections than tile flu The cancer occurr-ed mostly at does that are 50 to IOO times the amount humams ingest from water or toothpaste. The researchers stressed that many more tests would h.ave to be c<Jnducted before any C()ncrete e-vidence linking fluoride with cmcer could be found:. -:-_ -~~: The reports of abuse come at a time of growing concern about a sharp delcine in the number of appltcants to medical school. unless accompanied by other 1----------------------------------...., influenza symptoms. Electronic Teaching In Mississippi, where one out of every three adults is The flu virus can cause death through pneumonia, k.idney failurl!, and heart attack In the average year, the fl11 olavs a role in about 20,000 deaths nationwide. The last serious ou tbrak resulted in 57,400 fa tali tics. THE BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT and BIOLOGY CLUB present DR. DAVID R. MANN Dept. of Physiology Morehouse School of MHdicine Atlanta, GA \BONE LOSS RESULTING FROM OVARIAN FAILURE\ Thursday, Feb. I, 1990 4:40p.m. Social Sciences Rm '1 12 Refreshments 4:30 DEADLINE Tr1e deadline for proposals for the Internal Education Foundation in two categories-- student-initiated projects and \educationally innovative projects\ is Friday, February '16, 1 99 0. Proposals for student-initiated research projects must have the written approval of a faculty advisor who has agreed to supervise the project. The proposals should l>e submitted to the Dean's office (S-100, Science & Engineering Building) on forms avail able there. Similarly, memb-ars of the College community who have \educationally innovative\ proposals should submit them to the same office on forms available there. Forms for Faculty- Research Projects are also available in the Dean's Office (S100). Guidelines with respect to the IEF are available in the Dean's Office. Inquiries about IEF, the guidelines, or tDle proposal deadline should be directed to Dean George Butterstein, Associate Dean of Faculty. When preparing budgets, please remember that per diem rates are normally limited to $80.00 per day. Transportation costs should also reflect the t>e st rates available. Students who are planning to do interviews must indicate tllat arrangements have already been made. If your research includes work with human subjects, then the proposal must have preliminary approval from the Human Subjects R(jsearch Committee before it can be funded by the Subcouncil on Research and Grants. CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT SEMINAR Dr~ Janet Kaydos Mount Holyoke College \The Chemistry of G.amma- Ketocyclobutanones\· Friday, February 2 - 12:30 pm - NW 222 ReJteshments will be provided

~W~\ t \ 't'iW~\.,,h~ .(.\?.'1'.3\C'I.',H\'.W\{\'t CONCORDIENSJS, February J, 1990 X~ 'J.~.h~\''\ Page 19 R~BEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY,FEBRUARY 5 ss 016 8 & 10 PM ADMISSION: $1 T!CKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH ATTENTION SENIORS!! I am forming a committee to plan and organize events for Se.nior Week. (The last few days before graduation) To have a . . m.emorable and enjoyable wee:k . we need to start now! Any interested seniors who would I ike to participate please ~ contact me at 386-4465 or Box 133. Thank you!· Lisa Archabald · Class Representative '90 · Attention: Next meeting. · of the Women's Support- , . Action Group is THURSDAY FEB. 1ST 12:00-1 :00 4th Floor lounge of the College Center College Students PERMS - $25 STYLE CUTS FOR WOMEN- $9.00 MEN - $6.00 ...

CONCORDIENSIS, February l, 1990 REBEL WITHOUT A CAUSE MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 ss 016 8 & 10 PM ADMISSION: $1 TICKETS AT THE INFO. BOOTH Remember to 'reapply for financial aid 'iwchclarshi:p. lob ~ wark study) :BY APRil. 1 STH Appl.k:atioruJ availabl~ at the lJaion College li'i.naneial Aid Office 2od Floor, Beeker Hall • 370-612:3 • ' • I Page l~ ATTENTION S·ENIORS!! I a.m forming a committee to plan and org:anize events for Senior Week. (The last few days before graduation) To have a memorable and enjoyable week we nHed to start now! Any interested seniors who would like to participate please contact me at 386-4465 or Box 133. Thank you!· Lisa Archabald Class Representative '90 Attention: ~ Next J j mee~ing 1 of ~he \Nomruen~s Support .. Action Group . IS THURSDAY FEB. 1ST 12:00-1:00 4th Floor Lounge o1the College Center Special for College Students PERMS D $25 STYLE CUTS FOR WOMEN- $9.00 MEN · $6.00 1/air Vesijjns ·: '13y ... :J{ji(f(j / WALK~INS ,.I. r\ WELCOME V y . 1689 van \franken .Ave., · Schenectady,. N.Y. 1230fJ NIKI<l OlMA TIEO J~ll CARM DiM A iTEO 370·5238

Page 20 CLASSIFIEDS Attention: Easy work, . excellent pay! Assemble· products at home. Details: (1) 602-838-8885 ext. W-709fJ. Part-time baby sitter. Flexible .'!lours, call Ann Singer. 377-5527. ---------------~-·---- Attention: Earn money reading books! $32,000/year income potential. Details (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. Bk 7090. Jobs in Alaska: Hiring men - women summer/year round. Canneries, fishing, logging. tourism, construction. Attention: Earn money typing at llome! $32,000/yr income potential. Details, 1- 602-1838-8885. ext. T-7090. Lonely? Need a date? Meet that special someone today! Call DATETIME (405) 366-6335. Attention - Govt. homes . from $1 (u-repair). Delinquent, tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602-&38-8885. Desperately se-eking a 1989 yearbook. Will pay £50 and up... If interested please call (516) 764-7755. Attention · Gvt. seized vehicles from $lOOk. Fords, Mercedes, C()rvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602- 838-8885 ext. A-7090. -~~==== CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Night Supper - February 6th at 5 p.m. - All Union students are invited to use meal card,. go through Upperclass Dining, bring tray to CC203 and join other members of Newman for supper and conversation with Jack Maranville, Vice President of Union College. Farauo House • On Tuesday.~February 13 a group will visit Farano Center for Chil<b·en, opened in November. 1987 that provides comprehensive services to children affected by HIV infection and AIDS as well as to children with other special medical, J)hysical, and developmental needs. We will leave from tl1e College Center at 1:30 p.m. and drive to Albany whete we will be given a tour of the facility. an . CONCORDIENSIS, Febr~(lr;y 1, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS opportunity to play with the children, bring them Valentine presents and if you wish to visit a day care close by where children who have bee!l adopted auend programs. We will retum to Union by 5 p;rn. If you wish to go please give 1 your name to Sister Joan who will :L·range transporation. J1oiJ< Grot~p • All singers .. VISITING .SHUT-INS q and musicians interested in Any Union student who wishes being part of the· music to visit a shut-in on a regular ministry at the 7:30 .v.m. bas·is please cqntact Gerri Smtday Muss please meet at Borne at 372-3381. 6:30 p.m. in the chl!rdJ to rehearse. The grol,lp wekomes anycne to join who regularly attends this Library. COLLEGE CENTER WEEKLY SCHEDULE . Thursday, February 1, 1990 11:30 am · CCAUD Minerva Hour: \Some Pe::rsonal Questions on lndustrial Research,\ William Ward ill 5:00pm CC410Tai Cbi Class 7:00pm Public Spealdng Prellini;naries Friday, February 2, 1990 4:00 pm DHR Chinese New Year Celebratio11 7 & 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: Honey 1 Shrunk the: Kids 7:30 ,pm UCDH Public Speaking Competitio!l Saturday, Februar) 3, 1990 _ 7 & 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: Roney I Shrunk the: Kids Sunday, February 4, 1990 7 & 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: Honey I Shrunk the: Kids Monday, February 5, 1990 5:30pm CC409 Pro Choice GronJl 7:00pm CC406 Modern Lang. Films 7:30 pin CC409 S. B.A. Meeting 7:30pm CC203 S.P.A.A. Meetio,ll Tuesday, February 6, 1990 - 7:00pm CCAUD M InterestM~ti:ng 7:30pm CC409 410EatingDisorders Wednesday, February 7, 1990 3:00pm CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting 5:00pm CC302 Meditation Study. 6:00pm CC·109 Speaking Hands . 7 & 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: 91/2 Weeks 7:30pm CC406 Spanish Club Filin The Smithsonian Institution/Colle~e Center Exhibition \Remaking America: New Uses, Old Places\ concludes this weekend on the second, third, and fourth floors of the College Center. SHOE by Jeff MacNeJiy l ~TIU WJ.l'T UNI7GJ<~IANJ7 r\OW Al-L. 1U 1!7 INFi?~ATION FIT~ 0~ nu~ 'Tlt..l'( PI~C ·

PERSONA'LS 1..¢-igb: You're the greatest and I love ya lots! After J whip everyone into· Shape, we can cuddle, ok! Love Nicki Delta Pledges: You're all awesome but we get lonely in our apartment so come visit us! Love Nicole and Leigh GOING TO BOSTON SOON? (any weekend) n you are aFJ..1 vou wouldn't mind a rider please ca:U Ca:rolee at 372-3099 :.. I'll share expef!SCS & bring munchies. Little Sis Pam- Now that you know who I am I hope you lll'e as happy as me'! Love, Gaby AES - The dude raises my blood pressure,. It's not healthy to even know him! -M Found 16\ pearl necklace by Arts Building. Call Joy x4271 CONCORDlENSlS, February I, 1990 Page 21 CAMPUS NEWS Jane, Jill, Wendy, Eve-lynn, Lauren, and Dan: I miss you & love you! P.S. writeU SDT Sisters and Pledges- I hope you're having fun! Becky . Love~ Becky :· Sheryl- . No, you're not drunk - You're . just dizzy! Ho~e ya! Love,. Steph Hoht Chica Mishi L. We miss you, we love yau - tile entertaining roomie is still dancing and I'm stiU wearing my sombrero but none is Lhe same without you. HastaLuego MM .. LL Davidson North 319 , Thank you so much for , returning my bracelet. Laura Mao, I'll call you soon. Love, J udilh · P.S. Say Hi to Kev for me. Julie Brand\' My little sister is the best in the whole world! I love you Melissa! Delta Love, Amy Hello to alllhe Little People: BRAT,Jason,Jim, :Silly, Jared and HAL. get a personal two years removed. I love you and can't wait to celebrate our two year! Elizabeth, Love, M A whole rnonthl!! And we're still speaking. Who would have believed it. lately! Thanks for a fun weekend. -Angry canine TOBY- We don't get mad we get even. -SYBIL -The Buddha is alive!! Mike . My sweet ~pice Remember Freud! Hello world, from Schenectady. Joy~ happy birthday, .old lady! Hope it was a good one! Love, l.es What is this white stllff? To Beth & Robin, Thanks for all your support. ToeHee! Delta Love, Amy Yo Yo Yo Yo Delta Gamma Yeah you- February 3 is coming fast. Tick lock tick tock Hey And- I missed yo11! Glad to have you back. I love you Love, Shuffle RW (Dimples) They're big! (B.D.'s) But we're better! How about some more drunk volleyball? Michele M.M .. , When is our secret rcndc-vous at the Ziegfield going to happen? I'm waiting anxiously. The Rapper Dear Deltas- Thanks for an awesome birthday, I can't remember!! T Hey you little Pi Alphas, Pi Hey Shoulder Pop: Alphas, Pi Alphas, Hey you . . I hear you've been real studious Love, One wishful dreamer Terry - To another year and a half. Besito cono. Tc lWlO. Frank \OS\ Friends always ... \I 16\ B&M The fi.rst thing on your schedule is to buy us new underwear. 20U, Farewell! -Your only friends in the whole world Sue, Jcnn & N~tncy 1057G David: . · Write me and give me the · little Pi Alphas of'Delta G. It's ~~~~~~~~~O\C~X~~~~~~X5'C~ wear your pin. Don't forget, Happy 20thl Wish I could be scoop. I miss you! there, I miss you and can ~t wait. ·· · Love, Becky until Junel Hugs and Kisses! Becky . C~ every night be like Sunday night! (for cuddling)? Deb- You have pockets! What have you been doing for the last five years? Love, Steph • To the Hwrian Furnace- Thanks for keeping me warm . ·. on these cold ~inter nights! Weekly Cross\yord \DOLLARS AND SENSE\ ACROSS By Gerry Frey i Nest _: Rainy day funds 5 French Savings .and Loan 9 Monetary standard 13 Form a consensus 14 Jai __ 15 Exclamations 16 Dollar bills 18 _. _ Hari: Gertrud Margarete Zelle 19 First grade text 20 At the age of 21 Precedes \LIN\: Famous Ne.w Yorker :22 Hall of Filmer Mel 23 Numismatist :26 Otfed 2B Hwy. 29 Money_ 31 Dormant 34 Color 59 Ars _artist: .. Art for Art's sake\ 61 Kind of gun 62 Bank patrons 64 ~oilows \NO\ or\ JUS\ 65 Finance subj. 6!i Pineapples in Madrid 67 Pesters 68 Monthly bud!Jet item 69 Precedes \ION\: Meeting O!lWN 1 White heron 2 Dollar obverse: 2 wds 3 Turned Dobbtn 1o the right 4 One of the Finger Lakes 5 Bl~at 6 Famous highway 7 Unc:overed 8 Reservoir learn the words of your songs. (Repeat chorus) Laurcn- I'm so psyched that you're my little sister. ~ Love, DinaH Dickie, Bet you didn't e:xpect to 37 Saimon Portland_; Lincoln's Sec. ofTreas. 39 Precede \SON\: Mr. 9 Ltmg shot, eg 10 Famous airport 11 By and by 33 Female name 45 Trees found in China 47 Play parts Eddy Students Interested in becoming Union's Exchange Student next year to Japan should contact either Professor Thurston, SS213, or Professor Thomas in the irerms Abroad Off'ice, HU 211 . Knock 55 Monetary units of Italy RAPE CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady Planned Parenthood: Hotline: 346-2266 40 Dough raiser 42 Peruvian coin or Mr. Sun 43 Deferred .payment 1 ~ C ornpterized X· ray ter:hni'ques: A-bv. 13 Combining form meaning field 1n soil 17 Prepare the steak • 34 Ten dollar portraits 35 Avail 36 Summer in Nice 38 Reverberate 49 Drag and landing places 50 Up a11d around and Turkey 56 Fresh water fish 57 Italian wine region REBEL WITHOUT A-CAUSE 46 Peter Pan's pirate 47 'nufl 48 Type of bar 50 \Bean counter\! 54 tawdeg. 57 Tennis player 58 Newspaper org. 24 Foolish 25 Mr. Belli, eg. 27 __ Miserables 29 Tral. Control Sta. 30 Greek letter 32 Mr. Turnet 51 Ba ole draft 41 Fl ___ : Skin 52 Your brother's daUghter 53 __ . the window: 60 Mexican standoff: 2 wds 63 Calladian Prov. 44 Wastrel ©1990 GFR Assoc.iates AU Ri2hts Reserved P.O. Box 9104. Somenectady. N.Y. 12309 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5 8 & 10 PM ... ..

'4 Page 22 CONCORDIENSJS, February 1, 1990 <!Ionrnrir irttsts .'SPORTS Women's Trac~ Enj,oys Second Week Of Stron.g Performances By MEG PARSONS This past Super Bowl Sunday, the most exciting sports event proved to be on the track rather- than on television. For the second week in a row, the Lady trackstcrs trounced the competition leaving school and personal rct·ords in their wake. T n the 50 meters, sophomor:e Denise Saunders once again took the other runners by storm placing first and establishing yet another scheol record in the process. Junior Meg Parsons also ran this event placing fourth. The 50 meter hurdles were run by freshman Deb Dumas who placed first chalking up yet another school record. Distance runner Dawn H<trrington tried her skills at this event and showed her potential by placing fourth. The 1500 rneters was the biggest race for Union with fom runners competing. Sophomore Rika Poor ran a good race placing first, running a 5:08, one second faster than last week. Dawn :Harrington also had a race to be ple~scd with. Sire also ran a personal record time. Freshman J en Robbins and junior Teresa Sabini had tough races and also gave pe1formanccs to be proud or. In the 50(;) meters Meg Parsons ran a personal record and placed first in a close finish. In the 800 meters alumnus and assistant coach J en Lee ran a strong race placing second in a 2:28. She's getting closer to the school record time which she still holds in the indoor 800 meters. Sophom()re Cyndi Hunter also ran well, placing fifth. In the 1000 meters. Meg Parsons was out for her third race of the day, and she placed an impressive second. The 300 meters was a nice race for Union with three newcomers to the event, Denise Saunders, senior Beth· J ewitt, and junior Christiana Agahiu. placing fourth, fifth, and sixth respectively. The 3000 meters included two· more Do Ybu Want VISA &'MasterCard .-· : Credit Card•? : ·- STUDENT S~RVICES P 0 80)( 2.24()26 HOLLYWOOD, FL 33022 I . I ~J ...... YOll ~I\ M 1•~ INQ.;JI '\e tnrJ'S\ 'P(.~'I}\IlPd an acr;ecledcred•l \'tl:r ·~s~, I ,..a,1!i ...... l?w;otltj V 1 SA\ andMastar{:ard*':'•Pd•lt:a'ds ~'\'I''\'U' I I ~ ·• 1 'N'Bnt VISA•tl.4asterCartfl t: >'~olme E'v'E\-1 IF vOU ARE NEW ~~ CREOtT or H.III.VE SEEN I TU~I'./EO OC'VV\'l BEFORe · creu:ht -:ards. Encloeed find S1 '500 lNhlch •s J >t-' I 1~ refundabtetf.notaoorovedtmmedlalely I c.,..:-tF ,... v•c;.A• and Mn'9t(lrCar~ ttoe cr~tdlt.cerrf\S I \' ~<' ,•' rcu J<>servPand.,FJeafor•ID·t BOO~<S 1. ----------- I ,tf> bo 0 .._,\ * OEPARTME\-T STORES.* TUITION I r.,AME I o c.,. <\\ 6 eQ * EN,.E~TAt~MEi'IT *' EMERGE~GY.CASH ~ , .. i ._,. * TrCI(ETS * RESTAURAN.TS I o ..>'' •~-~OTELS•GAS*CARRENTALS J -- ---- -----~-- .. •\\ * OEPMRS * AND TO BUILD AOO»ESS .,.,_c VQUR CREI>IT RATING• '1 OUARANTEEDI GOLD CARD VISAIMASTEFIC ARO. GUARANTEED 'ISSUE OR MONEY lllt.CK I----~-.-~--- 1 crrt I PHONE\ I I STATE ZIP I ------------------- 1 soc SECU ~ITY \' Aporovalebsolutely I que,anteed!OHt.Jrry 1•111 _ ~ ·-- --------- --- c.ullt-1•~ .-~rd !<Jday I SIGNATURE _ 1 Vourcredtftanls are .... a.t•nQ4 I + !J,.,:Ill:t•l.!fJ 13•li!J•i:ii•l•t\l 1 L..,.-..,----- . ...,------ p.ersonal records as J en Robbins and Dawn Harrington, the two promising freshmen, placed third and fourth in this grue'ling race. Junior Teresa Sabini also gave a good effort. The throws proved to be strong as always as sophomore Alix Goldschmidt placed first in ,the weight and second in the shot put with throws of 37.8 and 38.10. Beth Jewitt placed second with a personal record throw of 33.4 in the shot. And freshman Lori Simkins followed with a close third also throwing a personal record of 33 feet. The day ended with a twist, as the 1600 meter relays were run with co-ed teams. For Union the first team was composed of Bob Lindyberg, Denise Saunders, BiH Taylor, and Deb Dumas. The second team included Jeff Simkins, Cyndi Hunter. Rich Zemhack and Meg Parsons. This weekend the Women's team is on hiatus while the men take .on R.P.L Student- Alumni Association T.A.S. T.:Ea (TAKE A STU D:ENT TO EAT) Saturday, February 10, 1990 Sunday, February 11, 1990 Are you interested in joining one of our Alumni and their family for an evening of fine food, conversation, and reminiscing? If you are, you'll want to sign-up for TASTE! Sign-.Up Deadline: February 1st Contact: Alumni Office 370-6168 We need you, des · to write for Sports. C Andy at 381-4651 or Mark at 393-4358 Four Straight Wins For Women's B-Ball Raises . . Record to .5·00 By RON m:RNBAUM The Union women's varsity basketball squad came away with an overtime win against the College of St Rose on J anm~ry 24. Trailing by a score of 26-16 at the half, the team was able to come back and tie the score at 48-48 at the end of the reg-ulation time. In overtime, Union was able to go ahead by 10. leaving St. Rose out in the cold, and earn a 58-48 point win. This is the second overtime victory for the squad this ·season, and their record stands at an even .500 (7-7). In the first half of the game, things looked grim as the players were lla\ing difficulty playing together as a team; ,the offense could not hit its shots or free throw~. and was slow and unmotivated. While S.t. Rose kept up its intensity in the second half and played well, its lineup consisted of only 6 players, and the Union girls continued to play tough. As put by head coach Bonnie Gt':hling, \W c finally started to move and become aggressive on defense and firudly became aggressive on offense. Defense creates offense and allows us ~o get .going alld get into a .flow with brcakaways, steals, etc.\ This game was unlike the recent one at Williams wheretheteamhad :Vhe necessary mental desire throughout. S9ph()more forward Robin Romet~ led the squad wifh 20 .points and senior guard Gina J>'Iokosch put in 14. Prokosch and so,phomore forward Jean Lopata had 4 and 3 assists.. respectively, while Romer and senior guard Wendy Vincent led the team in rebounds. the next game is to be played at Utica Tech,. where Union ,Jias not played in the past 4 years. With a ti,ght schedule, including home games against formidable opponents William Smith ·and RlT this upcoming weekend, the tea:m needs most to rest. Currently, r: mphasis is being placed ()n game ftllldamentals and con<litioning in practices. ·L 0 N· '. D o·. N The Arts • FiE'la~ce/Economlc Resettrch/ .. · . . • · Management • Human/Health Serv1ces · · Politics • Advertising/PR/Marketing Journalism/Broadcast/Film PAR:IS WASHINGTON Media • Public Relations • Business Tourism • Fashion • The Arts • Government Boston Un1vers1ty International Progr>;>m$ 725 Commonwealth Ave~ue B2 Boston. MA 02215 , 617 353·9888 Politics • Business/Ecoroomics • Pre-Law International Relations • Journalism/ Communications • Health Fields • The Ar.ts Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semester·h<>ur credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty, centrally located housing, and individualized placements for virtually every academic interest. Programs in London and Paris ace offered dur-ing the spring, fall, and summer. The Washington .program. is offered during the fall and sprirtg. BOSTON UNIVERSITY An equal oppo<tuntlY. aHtrmattv.e·actton JnstttutJon A representative from Boston University will tle on campus: INFORMATION SESSION FEBRUARY 8, 4:00- 5:00PM HUMANITIES FACULTY LOUNGE i·--·--- --- --------.----------------------------~------------- Name------~-------­ Address--~-----~ CitY------ State_,_ .. Zip_ College/University ~------~ _Summer. _Fall. _Spring 19 _ _ Lcondon lnternshlt> Programme _The Arts _,Finance/Econ<>mic Research/ Management _Human/Health Services _Politics • _. Advertislng/PR/Marketing _Journalism/Broadcast/film -. Paris lnternship,Program _. _. W;ashiogton 'lntemship Program BASKETBALL FAN? Travel to the Gym this Saturday and root on aH 3 Union Hoop Teams - Tipoffs at 12:00, 2:00, and 4:00

CONCQRDIENSIS, February 1, 1990 Page 23 arvnmrbirttsis SPORTS Mouthing Off Tony t~glio ~~ 2 School Record~ While Scor1ng 152; of S·w1m Team's 483 Po1nts By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Editor This week's Athlete ~f the Week is sophomore swilllmer - Tony 'rrema,gli:o.. At the · Rochester Sprints. this past Saturday, Tony~ two scllool records, won a th11d individual event, and was on the wiiiiJ,ing 200 meter medley relay team. He was also a member oi the third place 200 meter free style :relay team.. In winnia~ the three events and partici:]lating in Lhe victory on the ret~l)l~ he was responsible for 152 of the team's 483 points. Tema:glio shattered the school record in the 100 meter individual medley event with a .time of 56;.64. the previous record bad been 1:01.12. Tony was also .in full form in the 50 breast stroke. He turned in a time of28~92. breaking the old record ·Of 29.98. While this in itself is a full day for most swi~mers, Tremagtio also notched a victory in the 100 meter breast stroke. These three evems accotmted for 60 points. Tony went on to swim the third leg {breast stroke) on the 200 meter medley relay team, which turned in a first place performance and another 60 points\ Tony's fourth victory also proved to be a successful one as he helped the team with a third place finish in the 200 fn.:~ style relay. Tony, in only his second year on the swim team. has thus far been swimming like· a four-year letter wi·nner and shows no signs of Ieuing up. Note: The .sports editors would like to apoh1g;ize to Tony for no't !laving a picture to acctJmpany this article. Unfo.rtunate'ly, .one was not available to us in titne to be incfuded ln this issue. Men's Basketball Holds Off Late Rally To Beat Kings Poi:nt By DAVID SACH.JlR After dropping a c::lose decision to DivisioiL II LeMyone earlier in the W'eek, the Dutchmen basketball team rebounded to hold off a late rally by visiting Kings P()in t to win, 63-56. The win snapped Kings Point's five game winning -streak W'llile improving the Dutch111 en's record to 6-9. Union jumped to a .Seven point lead at the IJ.alf,. 3()-23. through the efforts of seJlior guard Jerry Brescia~ who hac 10 points, and freshman fo.ward Greg Dolan, who finishell the half with 9 points. The Dutchmen opened up the lead to nine witb 8:10 to play in the first half, but Kings Points forward Kevin D'Arcy kept it close by tossing in 13 points of his own. Capped by an Alex Nestor basket, the Dutchmen opened the second half with a tremendqus scoring run that put them up by 17 with just 10:42 to play in the game. But Kings Point battled back, allowing the Dutchmen only two field goals the rest of the way. Kings Point crept to within one with just 36 seconds left, but a missed free throw by Dan Nice that could have tied the game and a Union rebound by Dave Sussman helped preserve tbe victory. As has been the case all season long, consistent free throw shooting helped hold off Kings Point's late surge. Over the last 4:41, the Dutchmen scored all of their remaining points from the stripe, hitting on lO of 12 shots. Three players ,for the Dutchmen finished in double figur~s: Greg Dolan, 16; Jerry Brescia, 15; and Dave Sussman, 11. Kings Point's Kevin D'Arcy led all scorers with 25. 1090 New Loudon Road Cohoes, NY 12047 The Sweater Man Thanks Yoa for your Sttpport and Invites You to Our End of Season Only 15 min from Cam]lLJS ,(Call for Directions) Mon.-Sat. lQ>am to 6 pm Rt 9 at Boght Corners Cohoes 783-1932 SALE Feb. 1st to 17th 25 o/o to 33% or more Remaining Sweaters Similar Savings on All Other Merchandise · $.ports Fans: Be sure to listen in to SPORTSLINE on WRUC 89.7 at 8:00 o,n S:unday nights Hosted by P.J'. Andrejkovics and Dave Sachar :By ANDY URAVER Sports Editor Before I begin, a word of advice to all ,of you aspiring columnists and reporters. Do · not. I repeat, DO Not try to write an article, or anything for that matJer, with a furry little squirr~l running around causing ha:v0C in your home. It can be a slight distraction, and it will have a detrimental .effect on y(lur writing. This column is a perfect case in point. Anyway ... I don~t like doing this, but I have to get it off my chest. What I try to do with this column is cover a wide variety of sports without giving too many printed words to one field ofcompetition. I am sure all ef you readers realize Lhat for the past two weeks I have written about professional football. I don't want to do it again, but because Super Bowl XXIV was anything but super, I feel Lhat I have to get some things out into :the open. · All I have been hearing about since the 'Sunday Slaughter' is Joe Montana tbis, Joe Montana that, and the San Francisco 49ers are the best ever because they did this and nobody else was that good and so on. What I have to say is very simple-- BOLOGNA (or baloney for those of you who have trouble with your phonetics). Jt is a given fact that the 49ers are a great team. They arc a dynasty. But why? They had many great players when they won Super Bowl XVI and they have many new great ones today. Joe Montana has done this, and he has done that, and he probably is the best quarterback ever to play the game of proiessional football. Unfortunately for the An1crican press, we will never know if Montana is the best ever and for that matter, I don't care. But let's say for the moment that 'he is. Now let's alter his given circumst<mccs a bit. Now Montana is the quarterback of the Denver Broncos and John Elway is the signal caller for San Francisco. Who would have won Super Bowl XXIV? Montana is good, but he is not that good. He could never have led Denver to the title and I don't think the 49ers. would have missed too many beats with Elway throwing the pigskin. Now do you think Montana could have led the Broncos past the New York Giants in 1986 or the Washington Redskins in 1987? He canit play defense and the Broncos gave up 39 points to the Giants and 42 to the Redskins. Nobody is that good (and Denver never really was very good to begin with. They were just a hit better than the Cleveland Browns). So the Broncos have now lost four Super Bowls, three of them with Joe Montana as their quarterback. Is he still the best ever? Interesting question. And are the 49ers til~ best team ever? First of all, tltey won four Super Bowls in nine seasons. However, only five players remain from the first championship. Is this the same team? I think not. Their competition was not as good as it was for dynasties past. The Broncos made it all the way to New Orleans this year because everybody else in the AFC lost more games than they did. Cincinnati was a one-s~ason fluke, twice, and the Miami Dolphins ·defense had more holes in it than the roads on the Union campus (that's a lot, for those of you who arc counting). But any team which wins four Super Bowls has to be great because they have had to overcome the complacency that sets in once success is achieved. The San rwncis~:o 49ers have done this, and w111 most likely do it again next year. They will end up playing the best of the worst from the AFC (Another F-----g ctmmp) and winning their fifth Vince Lombardi Trophy and '011e For The Thumb', something the Pittsburgh Steclcrs never could accomplish. The Stcclers couldn't do this because they were getting too old. Their team had remained surprisingly intact for almost a decade and their younger players did not possess the skills and attitiude of their older teammates. They had played too many games against too many other great teams, too many other dynasties-- the Dallas Cowboys, who went to five Super Bowls in the decade; the Miami Dolphins, who won two and who arc the only team to have gone through a season with a perfect record (they beat the Steelers 21-17 in the Championship Game in their perfect 1972 season); ;the Oakland Raiders, the winningest franchise in the history of sports, all sp{)rts; and the Minnesota Vikings, the first team to lose four S upcr Bowls, but the one with the second best defense ever to take an NFL field (of course. the Steel Curtain was the greatest ever). What I am trying to say here is that it does not matter that 49ers have won their four Super Bowls by an average of 15 points and that the Steelers won theirs by a paltry 7. If the Steelers had played the Bro11cos instead of the Cowboys (twice) or Rams or Vikings, they ·could have easily scored 55 points. The 49ers got off easy in the big games. They might have had to beat a great team to get there, but they never had to beat another dynasty when all eyes were upon them. The Steekrs had to do both, and they did both. They beat great teams to get to the big time , and once they were there, they proved that they wrcc indeed Big Time. ...

The men's Baske:tball team snapped King's Point's ilve game winning streak with a 63·56 vic:tory. Union's record ls now '9·5·2~ They ·race on against Hobart and RIT In their next two games. Victory Over Vassar Gives Swim Coach Her 100th Career Win By SPORTS STAFF Union College swimming coach Susan Bassett 11otched her _ 1 OOth career victory, against Vassar,last Wednecsday evening as the women's ~wim team improved its record to 7-0 with a 187-82-point thrashing. Smith already under their belts, the Lady Dutchmen have the potential to put together an undefeated dual meet campaign this year. Since coming to Union three years ago, Bassett has compiled a 31-9 record to go with the 69-20 record she put togetller at William Smitla. The Union women's swim team was 8- 1 in her first two seasons and is 6-0 so far this year. This season's record included a 194-104 victory over William Smith, the only team to beat the Dutchmen last season. Under Bassett's guidallce, the women's swim team came in fourth in the New York State meet last year, their best finish in school history. Coacl1 Susan Bassett With the win over William Bassett took over as head coach of the men's team last season and led that squad to a 4-5 record. So far this season, the team is 4-2. SPORTSWEEK Friday, Feb. 2 Hockey at Hobart 7:30 Women's Basketball vs William Smith 7·00 Saturday, Feb. 3 JV Men's Basketball vs. Albany 12:00 Men's Basketball vs RIT 2:00 Women's Basketball vs RIT 4:00 Hockey at RIT 7:30 Swimming vs Hamilton 2:00 Men's Track at Capital District Meet at API 1:00 Tuesday, Feb. 6 Hockey vs Hamilton 7 :'30 JV Men's Basketball at HamiHon 7:00 Women!s Basketball vs Hartwick 6:00 Union 4 Union 1 SCORECARD Hockey 9-5·2 Men's Basketball 5·9 Hamilton t Norwich4 Union 67 Union 63 LeMoyne 48 Kirtgs Point 56 Women's Basketball 1· 7 Union 58 Women's Swimming 7·0 Rochester Sprints Men's Swimming 4·2 Rochester Sprints Women's Track 1St of 10 at Union lnvy Men's Track 2nd of 11 at Union lnvy St. Hose 48 3rdof 5 3rd of3 February 1, 1990 Skating ·Dutchmen . . Fight and Fall By ANDREW SEEWALD for Union. \We were still passing it well, but we•re not EdUor-in-Chief gung-ho about trying to getting anything on goal or salvage a victory,\ said banging in the rebounds. We've Campbell, \but being down been concentrating [in practice] five minutes leaves you o11ly on going to the net and taking 15 minutes to get three or four the shClts ftom anywhere. II In a game that wil1 be better remembered for pugnatories · than for pucks, Union fell to -- Norwich. 4-1, last Saturday night. Prior to the start of the third period. George Hartford, a Norwich forward, collided with Union goaltender Ron Kinghorn, sparking a bench .. clearing brawl, in what was otherwise a less than ordinary game for the Dutchmen. · Five players from each team were thrown out, including Union's leading scorer and co- captain, Guy Logan. Logan was issued two game misconducts, which would ordinarily mean a _three-game suspensie>n. But due to ECAC rules limiting the number of game misconducts that can be assessed against a team at a time. there is a chance that Logan might be able to return to action after sitting out only one game. Also ejected for Union were Tim Cregan, Dalton MenhaH, Bill Railton and Dan Gould. ECAC rules stipulate that players ejected from a game shall be suspended for the fcllowing game as well. All the Dutchmen ejectees arc forwards, and it was a curiously collected bunch. While Logan, Cregan and Menhall had prominent roles in the altercation, Gou1d and Railton did nothing more than most who were allowed to remain, and in certain cases they did considerably less. \All I did was. when I saw two of their guys on one of ours, I would pull one of their guys off,\ explained Gould, whose 95 consecutive game sl:rcak will be snapped. All of the penalties offset eac.h other, with the exception of the odd penalty against Kinghorn, a five minute major. That meant the Dutchmen would be shorthanded for five minutes while five men short, a combination that left Union with their hands full. Union trailed 3-0 entering the period. Co-captain 'l'erry Campbell was one of those who remained goals and that just wasn't The power-play will have a enough.\ hard time healing against The Dutchmen were doing a Hobart because the suspended - fine job killing the penalty players together account for until Corey Gilander would 50% of the· team's man-up score with 32 seconds tallies. remaining. That left the With a 4-1 victory over Dutchmen down, 4-0. \With a Hamilton and the loss to little less firepower from the Norwich last week. the five guys being ejected, it was Dutchmen are currently ranked pretty tough,\ said Campbell. 5th in the ECAC and have Ten players were tossed. as a result of the bench- clearing brawl. Bill Avery scored the only goal of the finit period at the 7:57 mark. Tom Walsh scored twice within the first 5:32 of the second period, and the Dutchmen must have seemed like scouts to the Cadets. \We didn't seem to come to the game prepared,\ said Campbell. \\Ve started slow. It's kind of hard to come back from three goals down. 11 Union would finally get on the board whe11 Craig Ferrero scored his seventh goal of the season with 4:55 remaining in the game. Ferrero has scored goals in three straight games and needs just one more to tie his total from last year. But a by-that-time-tired Dutchmen squad had spent its reseiVes and would suffer its fifth defeat of the season. Union is 9-5-2 overall and 7-3-2 in ECAC play. The Dutchmen continue to struggle on the .power-play, going 0 for 4 Saturday . .Union is now 18 f()r 97 on the season, an 1&.6 percentage. Between 20% and 2.5% efficiency is considered pretty good, and anything above 25% is excellent. But the Dutchmen have fallen from the respectable category in recent games. \We're moving the puck around the offensive zone, but we're not getting , any shots,\ Campbell expJained •. \We;re · reappeared in the NCAA poll, ranked 9th. As cf Tuesday, Hobart was 7-7-1, hut will by no means be an easy foe. The Union coaching staff is especially concerned that the team might be looking ahead to Saturday night's tilt with defending ECAC champ· and arch-rival RIT. which currently leads the ECAC West standings. Now the task will be-made _ even more difficult with the loss of some key players. Campbell, for one, has faith in the replacements, though. 11 We'vejust gottado with what we have and hopefully Friday night we can do something good to make up for the 1\io.rwidt game,\ he said. The. Dutchmen will insert into the lineup Darrell Gustufson, Dave Puccini, Dalton Gustafson, Brian Lucey and Dave Moody. Rick; Burchill will move from defense to forward, where he played in a few games last year. Lucey, adefenseman, was. due to come back anyway after recovering from a separated shoulder. Darrell Gustafson has played in nine games, David Moody seven and Dave Puccini one this year. Dalton Gustafson will be making his first appearance of the year. Campbell will remain on defense and Bill Sedergren will remain at right wing. After this weekend's road trip, Union returns home for 7 of its last 8. Hamilton will be at Achilles Tuesday night at 7:30.

r. ,: '' i I t1 r I 'I 1877 Vol. CXIX, No .. 12 Schenectady, New York February 8, 19~0 Freshman Class E'le,ctions R,esult In Five-Way, Tie . . By ELISE FOODY News Editor Classroom Climate 'For 'Women To Be D<iscussed Elections for Freshman Courtesy of PUBLIC Class representa,tives to the . RELATIONS OFFICE Student F(}rum weFe held last , · Friday, February 2. The Dr. Craig P~ Flood, director election resulted in .a five-way · of the New York State tie. The top five voOte-getters ' Occupational Education Equity were Karen Hurwitz, James Center,_ Latham, wilt examine Moore, Evans Legros, Neil · · the status ofresearch on gender Kanterman. and Christopher · and classroom interaction in a Sears. Approximately 715 talk titled \Classroom Climate: votes were cast by nearly 239 Is It Still a Chilly One for students. Each voter selected Women?\ at noon 011 tllree.candidates fortlhe office, Wednesday, Feb. 7, in College Due to the results of the Center 409, sponsored by the election, there will be run.off Women's Commission. election,s held· February 9 He will examine the between the houts of 11 :30 and classroom climate eighf§ears ··· 2:00 p.m. outside West . after the publication of The College. After the votes. are ' Classroom Climate: A Chilly tallied the top three winners · One for .Women by the will be elected as Association of American representatives to the Student Colleges. Forum; In addition, Flood will According to the mles in the examine the social context of Student Handbook, \If no gender roles and their candidate receives 30perc::ent or implications for classroom and more of the votes cast, a run- • instructional methods. He also off election shall be conducted · will talk about the research on among the five camLidates wbo \women's ways of knowing\ received the greatest number of • and about the Dodge Study, a votes cast.\ · longitudinal study of adolescent After the run-of£ election is . girls at Emma Willard Schoo!, held, the Student Handbook · Troy, in the 1980s by Carol states that, \Winners shall be : Gilligan, a Harvard University declared if three candidates • psychologist. receive 30 percent ()r more of the votes cast.\ Presidential Search Continues To. Progress Courtesy of ;Joseph Hinchey, ChaiF, Presidential Search Committee As the Presidential Searc:h Committee prepares to begin the next phase of its effort, it is an appropriate time to update th,e Union College Community. Since our last campus report, the number of applications and nominati0ns continued to increase, to a total of abollt 170. After extensive review, including evaluation of applican~s and validation (Jf interest among those nominated by . others, the committee has selected a number of prospects for first- round interviews. Thos c interviews, which will start at the end of this week, will be held_ off-campus. The committee anticipates that it will begin referring some of the leading candidates to the Selection Committee by early Marco. The process of reviewing information and talking with prospects has been pursued energetically. We continue to work toward our goal of selecting the 17th president of · Union College by the end of the academic year in June. Stud·ent Anger S.parked By Falling Ice By .)A Y FREELAND News .Editor The recent barrage of • snowfall on the Capital District area has caused both dangerous .conditions and student ang.er at Union College. Falling ice at the ' College Center, and unplowed parking lots have left many students disturbed with the · .. College's Physical Plant and Security Departments. The majority of the campus • . animosity is directed at unfulfilled plowing promises. Signs were posted on several : different occasions announcing ' plowing dates and warning students that any cats not moved would be towed. Physical plant, however, plowed only the driving lane.of the parking lot and has thus left several cars plowed into their spots. Student anger has also been directed towards the fact that large pieces of ice continue to fall from the top of the College Center and physical plant is yet to remove them. Currently, both of the front entrances to the College Center have been closed. the last area of concern deals With walkways that remain covered with an inch or more of ice. Although a majority of the paths have been cleared, the ones that rernain covered are predominantly in front of Greek houses. Several houses claim that they have put in work orders with physical plant, but none of them have gone through. States one student, \ ... this is just one · more sign of the College's neglect to look in the area of the students' best interest m1d meet their needs.\ College Approves Eight Percent Increase ln Tuition, Room ·and Board The Board of Trustees acted on several financial matters and elected officers at its meeting in January in New York City. In the proposed 1990-91 budget, the trustees approved a $1,065 increase in tuition, from $13,355 to $14,420. Room and board charges -- considering the most frequently selected room accommodation and the freshman food contract price -- wiH increase from $4,695 to $5,065. Together, tuition am} room and board charges will.increasc from $18,050 to $19,485, or 7.95, percent.. The trustees also approved a $490,000 increase, or 8.35 . percent, in the College financial aid budget. the tot~1l financial aid allotment for th,~ · year will be about $6,362,037. A compensation adjustmcnL pool of 7.13 percent, L\l provide general salary, wage, . and merit increases as well as employee benefits, was also approved. An additional sum or $200,000 is provided as the fourth step in the program to improve the College's standing ia national faculty salary rankings. A four-year total or $685,000 has been provided through this program. Final action on the 1990-91 budget will be taken at th.; tmsLecs April meeting. The trustees elected NortDrr H. Reamer '58 as chairmaR Other officers are Joseph 1\.1, Hinchey '47, vice chairmafl; William G. Burns '54, former board chairman, as secrctar~; Arnold I. Burns '50, gcncr:.rl counsel; John R. Hauser, viuc president for finance ;.mal administration; and Jack L Maranville, assistant secretarY', Arthur V ash '51, a former a1tJmni and term trustee. wos termed a trustee emeritus. Adrian Frazier of the Englisl·l Department was declared tenurable and promoted to associate professor. The board approved a 11 updated fraternity loa 11 program, increasing thl· maxi mum loan amount and th..: repayment period. The progr::11r1 began ,in 1983 to provitlt.: financial assistance tu fraternities seeking to impmv..: their .houses and satisfy fire anL I safety codes. Four fraternities have borrowed $71 ,000. The trustees endorsed a speda! appeal for the Notl Memorial cxtcrio~r rehabilitation project, which is cxpccicd to cost at least SS . millio11. The $1 million appca~ to alumni and friends of the College is expected to begin in · the nex:t few weeks. Photo of the Week: America's favorite family returns to prime time tomorrow .in a \new-improved\ Brad),' series for the 90's. Iii

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, ·1990 ,<trvltfllrbfrttsis NEWS ANALYSIS· Taking Initiative On The Environment By MEG ROSENBERG :reduction would require new federal standards for autom<>biie ' f11el, government incentives for In the 1988 presidential · no.re efficient energy election, Bush claimed himself . consumption and produ(;tion, the envinmmentalist candidate al'ld more reseawh and promising to clean up development to find alte:11nate America's act. In a campaign · energy saurces. speech o-n August 31, 1988 he While Congress ancl the spoke of reducing carbon Executive Branch are stmck in dioxide emissions in the their tracks. state and ,local atmosphere in an effort to .stop g~vemrnents are not 'Waiting the so-called Greenhouse around. They are actually Effect. However, it seems that taking the initiative to set the . Bush \V()uld rather study the standards for the entire nation. problem rather than act on it as New York State has ; Iris adll')inistration has not implemented req:uiremellts for taken any substantial measures more energy efficient • to combat the dangers of global construction of cars, warming. Time magazine aJlplianc~s. and buildi11gs, and notes ill a November 6, 1989 is discouraging the u~e of article that any meaningful fossil fuels. This is all in an effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions .20% by the year ·. · 2010. Governor Thomas Kean · of New Jersey has announced a Global Climate Initiative with plans to plant more trees to attract some of the C02 in the atmosphere. Philadelphia has regulated the emissions of 99 toxic chemicals whereas the . U.S. government has only issued the regulation of seven. 1 Having state and local ' governments set their own ' standards is a good example of . - how federalism; a System · which protects state's rights, can be effective. It allows for prog~ams to be implemented on a smaller scale and then perhaps later adopted by the wh.ole nation if they are successful. However, there are at least two problems with attacking the environmental situation on a loeal level that . . call for more guidance from the national govemment. One, is the fact that industries now have to com:ply with 50 individual state regulations rather than Simply meeting one national stand~d. Two, is that no matter how much money and time is spent by State \A\ .to reduce acid rain within its borders, it is dependent on its neighboring states to set simHar standaFds for their efforts to be effective. Thus, there is an increasing awareness even among state's rights activitists that the federal government has to get more involved in coordinating tile clean-Up effortS ptompte~ by the states. If Bush cll.l.ims that he is the environmentalist presidentthen he needs to sllow the states something more ~an: rhetoric. They are calling for action. S tudetlts for Political Awareness and Action (SPAA) see the need to promote aetio11 on our campus. Steps can and must be taken by the adminstration and the student bodyto cut down our waste amd preserve our environment. SPAA meets every Mo11day night at 7:30 in CC 203, if you too., are interested in leaving more to your cb.ildren than garbage and dirty water and air. Investigating Private University Price-Fixing Courtesy of' Collegiate Times Antitrust law and undergraduate education rarely meet otitside the classroom. At most, antitrust policy occupies an obscure niche in the curriculum. Students who venture to take courses in indus trial organization or busine&:s regulation commonly learn tb:at government antitrust enforcement deals mainly with the co11duct of profit-making commercial organizations. It seemed only natural, therefore, that f()r most of the hundred· year history of the Sherman Act, private colleges and univenities only had to teach about the antitrust laws, and never really had to worry about their application in practice. What once was s.olely an abstract, pedagogical concern, today occupies the thoughts of many University administrators Since August, the Department of Justice has asked over 40 private universities fOF information regarding their practices in setting tuition rates, financial aid packages, and faculty salaries. The Justice Department inquiry also has prompted a Wesleyan University student to file a class action lawsuit seeking damages against Wesleyan and 11 other private colleges for alleged tuition price-fixmg. The Justice Department . investigation is asking three · <t uestions. First and most important, have the sellools c<>nspired to set tuition levels? · This part of the inquiry appears to have stemmed from reports tltat university officials ~idely ex<:hange informatiom about prospective tuition inc:reases before final amounts are set for each academic year. As a.:pplied to business organizations, conventional antitrust doctrine ·generally proscribes agreements among direct competitors to set · prices. Although criminal · . enforcement is not at issue in this instance, indi vid:uals · C()nvicted of price-fixi11g often go to jail. Second, have the schools collectively adopted urueasonable restrictions on the content of financial aid packages for entering stlld~.mts? !he Justice Department's concern here is thftt the universities improperly- nave , eliminated competiti()n for • promising students by .. establishing uniform policies 1 f()r financial aid awards. Antitrust doctrine usually bars competing firms from establihing common p<>licies Remember to reapply for financic:1l aid (scholarship•loa.n • work study) BY APlUI. 15TH Application.s available at the Union College F'iila!lcial Aid Office 2nd Floor, Bec:ker :Hall • 37D-6123 with respect to credit terms or financing. Third, have the schools collaborated in setting limits on faculty salaries? Here, again, traditional antitrust doctrine prohibits agreements . by rival companies to set Since August, the Department of justice has asked over forty private univErsities for information. regarding their practices in setting . tuition rates, financial aid packages and faculty salaries. wages or terms of employment to be offered to current or - prospective employees. In deciding whether to go beyond its' current investigation and sue the universities, the Justice Department must resolve two basic issues. Most fundamentally, it must establish that the questionable behavior resulted from an agreement amQng two or more of the schools in question. This is likely to he the most difficult part of the inquiry. Among· other points, each university will try to show that, despite some exchanges of information, each school independently set tuition and salary levels. The second issue deals with the basis for the questioned bahavior. Consistent with modem antitrust doctrine, each university will try to persuade the Justice Department tfu:lt it · behaved reasonably. Some pniversicy officials have argued that the challenge(! exchanges of tuitio,n data are unquestionably benign because they took place openly, without efforts at concealment . . Although this condition suggests that the schools did not act deliberately to violate the Sherman Act, the open character of the challenged behavior does not preclude a. civil lawsuit, or; ultimately, a finding of illegality. Although the setting is unique, the Justice Department · inquiry should not have come as a complete surprise to the affected universities. Throughout the Sherman Act's history, antitrust enforcement has responded significantly to public dissatisfaction with rising prices for important goods and services. In recent years,· increases in tuition, room, and board at private four- year colleges have greatly surpassed the rate of inflation. These deveiopments. have · agitated countless students and their parents, creating . a powerful, smolder! ng constituency for intervention by public officials. These are precisely the conditions ¢at have led government antitrUst . agencies in the past decade to focus attention on dOctors~ lawyers; and other providers of · specialized, costly services. Antitrust scrutiny is a predictable response to drl!Ill2tic price increases in the education \industry\. Moreovers as a matter of policy, it is appropriate for the Justice Department to purs11e its inquiry, particularly for tuition and salary setting activities. Universities are not pmfit- rnaking com mere ial enterpri-ses, but they constitute a substantial and critical s~tor of economic actiVity. The answers the Justice Department receives in the coming mo11ths may well dictate tllat it aband<>n its investigation. Nevertheless, the Justice D~partment is beginning t() ask important and useful questions about how private universities provide a vital service. .,

Page 2 CONCO'g.D/ENSJS, February 8, 1990 <Unmrbirnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Taking Initiative On The Environment By MEG ROSENBERG In the 1988 presidential election, Bush claimed himself . the environmentalist candidate prom1smg to clean l!lp America's act. In a ca~npaign speech on Aagust 31, 1988 he spoke of reducing carbon dioxide emissions in the atmosphere in an effort to stop the so-called Greenhouse Effect. However, it seems that Bush would rather study the problem rather than act on it as his administration has not taken any substantial measures to combat the dangers of global warming. Time magazine notes in a November 6, 1989 article that any meaningful teduction woald require new federal standards for automobile fael, government incentives for more efficient energy consumption a:nd production, and more research and development to find alternate energy sources. While Congress and the Executive Branch are stuck in fheir tracks, state and local governments are not waiting around. They are actually taking the initiative to set the standards for the entire nation. New York State has implemented requirements for more energy efficient construction of cars, appliances, and buildings, and is discouraging the use of fossil fuels. This is all in an effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions 20% by the year 2010. Governor Thomas Kean of New Jefsey has announced a Global Climate Initiative with plans. to plant moFe trees to attract some of the co2 in the atmosphere. Philadelphia has regulated the emissions of 99 toxic chemicals whereas the U.S. government has only isslJed the regulation of seven. : Having state and local ' governments set their own · standards is a good example of hQ\W federalism, a system which protects state's rights, can be effective. It allows for programs to be implemented on a smaller scale and then perhaps later adopted by the wllole nation if they are successfuL However, thefe are at least two problems with attacking the environmental sitMation on a loeal level that call for more guidance from the national government. 011e, is the fact that industries now have to comply with 50 individual state regulations rather than simply meeting one national standard. Two, is that no matter how much money and time is spent by State \A\ to reduce acid rain within its borders, it is dependent on its neighboring states to set similar standards for their efforts to be effective. Thus, there is an increasing awareness even among state's rights activitists that the federal government has to get more involved in coordinating the clean-up efforts prompted by the states. If Bush claims that he is the en vironmentali~_t president then he Reeds to show the states something more than rhetoric. They are calling for action. Students for Political Awareness and Action (SP AA) see the need to promote action on our campus. Steps caa and must be taken by the adminstration and the student body to cut down our waste and preserve our environment. SP AA meets every Monday night at 7:30 in CC 203, if you too, arc interested in leaving more to your children than garbage and dirty water and air. Investigating Private University Price-Fixing Courtesy of Collegiate Times Antitrust law and undergraduate education rarely meet outside the classroom. At most, antitrust policy occupies an obscure niche in the curriculum. Students who venture to take courses in industrial organization or business regulation commonly learn that government antitrust enforcement deals mainly with the conduct of profit-making commercial organizations. It seemed only natural, therefore, that for most of the hundred- year history of the Sherman Act, private colleges and universities only had to teach about the antitrust laws, and never really had to worry about their application in practice. What once was solely an abstract, pedagogical concern, today occupies the thoughts of many University administrators Since August, the Department of Justice has asked over 40 private un ivers1t1es for information regarding their practices in setting tuition rates, financial aid packages, and faculty salaries. The Justice Department inquiry also has prompted a Wesleyan University student to file a class action lawsuit seeking damages aga,inst Wesleyan and 11 other private colleges for alleged tuition price-fixing. The Justice Department · investigation is asking three questions. First and most · important, have the schools conspired to set tuition levels? This part of the inquiry appears to have stemmed from reports that university officials widely exchange informatiom about prospective tuition increases before final amounts are set for each academic year. As applied to business organizations, conventional antitrust doctrine generally proscribes agreements among direct competitors to set prices. Although criminal enforcement is not at issue in this instance, individuals convicted of price-fixing often go to jail. Second, have the schools collectively adopted unreasonable restrictions on the content of financial aid · packages for entering students? The Justice Department's concern here is that the universities improperly have eliminated competition for promising students by establishing uniform policies for financial aid awards. Antitrust doctrine usually bars competing firms from establihing common policies DON'T DESPAIR Theres ill Time. Remember to reapply for financial aid (scbolarship•loan • work study) BY APRIL 15TH Applications available at the Union College Financial Aid Office 2nd Floor, Becker .Hall • 371}-6123 ' with respect to credit terms or financing. Third, have the schools collaborated in setting limits on faculty salaries? Here, again, traditional antitrust doctrine prohibits agreements by rival companies to set Si11ce August, the Department of Justice has asked over forty private universities for in formation regarding tlleir practices in setting twltion rates, financial aid packages and faculty sala1·ies. wages or terms of employment t() be offered to current or prospective employees. In deciding whether to go beyond its current investigation and sue the universities, the Justice Department must resGlve two basic issues. Most fundamentally, it must establish that the questionable behavior resulted from an agreement among two or more of the schools in question. This is likely to be the most difficult part of the inquiry. Among other points, each \lniversity will try to show tlhat, despite some exchanges of information, each school independently set tuition and salary levels. The second issue deals with the basis for the questioned bahavior. Consistent with modem antitrust doctrine, each university will try to persuade the Justice Department that it behaved reasonably. Some university officials have argued that the challenged exchanges of tuition data are unquestionably benign because they took place openly, without efforts at concealment. Although this condition suggests that the schools did not act deliberately to violate the Sherman Act, the open character of the challenged behavior does not preclude a civil lawsuit, or, ultimately, a finding of illegality. Although the setting is unique, the Justice Department inquiry should not have come as a complete surprise to the affected universities. Throughout the Sherman Act's history, antitrust enforcement has responded significantly to public dissatisfaction with rising prices for important goods and services. In recent years, increases in tuition, room, and board at private four- year colleges have greatly surpassed the rate of inflation. These developments have agitated countless students and their parents, creating a powerful, smoldering constituency for intervention by public officials. These are precisely the conditions that have led government antitrust agencies in the past decade to focus attention on ctoctors, lawyers, and other providers of specialized, costly services. Antitrust scrutiny is a predictable response to dramatic price increases in the education \industry\. Moreover, as a matter of policy, it is appropriate for the Justice Department to pursue its inquiry, particularly for tuition and salary setting activities. Universities are not profit- making commercial enterprises, but they constitute a substantial and critical sector of economic activity. The answers the Justice Department receives in the coming months may well dictate that it abandon its investigation. Nevertheless, the Justice Department is beginning to ask important and useful questions about how private universities provide a vital service. ~ ' ORIENTATION . , ... IE .. C .. ····o···:·M·· ... ···. ·Mi ;,;:1· .. ,. ···'·.· ····. •···•· ::. '. ' . -_ ';. ,., ' . :. _ ... __ .'' . :; :~: '', •.· ., - . - - _- ~- .

- CONCORDIENSIS 1 February 8, 1990 Page 3 ~ (;ollege To Estab I ish Substance Abuse_ Program Union College continues to have- a vital inte:rst in. the health of Faculty and Staff. Tills concern encompasses the a1>11se ofalcohol and C()ntrolled sU:bStances as well a!; general pl1y5ical and emotimnal well being. Now both New York. State and the Federal ()ov-ernment have enacted laws -whi<Jh make nec~ssary the College's reaffirmation C()nceming alcohol and drug ab11se. · . :Accordingly 1 the ll:IIllawful manufacture, distr-ibution, · dis)>ensation, possession or use or a controlled substance and/or alcohol on College p:1remises, in College vehicles ~r while .ellgaged ·in duties with the College is prohibited; Any faculty or staff'member C()nvicted of a criminal' drug statute crime within tlt<eir scope of .employment must notify either the Dean .of the Facl11ty <Jr Director of Petson11el \Vithin five- days of th~lt conviction. Faculty/S taffbehavior which violates t:h:e foregoing will be Subject to sanctions and discipline as outlined in the respective employment manuals. The CC>Uege may require participation in approved rehabilitation programs to · insure tl!at anyone abusing alcohol an-d/ot clrugs is given the opJortunity · to free themselves from those addictions. We wiU also establish a program to inform employees of all cf the dangers of substancf.l abuse in the work . place 1 rebabilitation programs available through the community and our medical insuranc-e carriers, and the policy Qf Union College wiLh respect t() substanc-e abuse in conjuncti()n with college duties. JohnS. Morris, President of Union College Reported lncldents DATE 1-28 1-28 1-28 1-30 1-30 1-30 l-31 l-31 1-31 1-31 2-l 2-1 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 t-3 2-3 ~ ·LOCATION 2:45 AM Sou.-th College 5: 21 AM Mlax-cy Ho1,1se 5:19 PM A.cltil1:es Ri:nk 11:10 AM 56 Union Ave 1:30PM College Center 9:55 PM l'lorth Terrace 6:16 AM- Library 1:13 PN Wes:t Coll.ege 1.:20 PM- Pole Hollse 9:08 PM '\\lest College 2:02AM CC>l~e.ge Center 8:l0 PM Oa.vidson Lot 9:46 PU Campus 1.2: 35 AM Potter Lot 1:15 AM College Center S: 2 6 Al-1 llaxcy Ho11s e 7:07 Al-l !taymond. 7:20 .AI-! Fratern,l ty 2:40 PM Campus ·?:47 PM Fox House 9:34 PM Fox House Il'<ClDENT Vandalism to interior door. Vandalism-front porch, ·window broken, Front door panic ba:r ripped off doo:r. Vehicle ·blocking drive SPD no.tifiecl', Trash can. fire. Suspicious person. Advised off carrrpus. VandaJ;ism-window in music room broken by snowball. Student \Tehicle towed for illegal parking. . Vandalism- broken window. Core missing from exterior door. Tempo-rarily replaced. Unauthorized entry by studen.t Susp~ci·ous person. Ad vi sed off campus. Reckless driver. Pursued. SPD •noti fied. Left campus. Indecerd .exposu:re, ~OA. Area arHi' campus vicinity checked. · PassiM~ vandalism to .pail\tillg on thhd floot. False fire alarm-two pull- boxes. Vand·al:i sm-window broken. Life sidety Equipment van· dalizeil. Items reported sto.len from vehicle. Life Saf.ety Equipment damaged. Conduct charges filed fer burning material in room. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFt FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW, 'Washington, DC 20036·2266 Harlem. Boys Ch-oir Director To Speak Tod.ay Dr. Walter- J. Turnbull, f(:)under and executive director ()f The Boys Choir of Harlem, will speak on the work of the choir in a talk titled \Making A Difference'' at 4;30 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 8, at the College Center auditorium, sponsored by the Dean of Students Office and the Black and Latin Alliance of Students. TUrnbull and the choir have received national and international recognition for their ability t(!) encourage , youths to take their lives in · hea;lthy, positive directions. - Recently, Turnbull was featured on. ABC's \Nightline\ and \20/20 NBC's ;'Today Show\ and CBS' \60 Minutes.'' Turnbull founded the Boys Choir in 1968 as the Ephesus Chu_rch Choir of Central - Harlem and began a girls program in 1979. It now consists of more than 200 young people ages eight to 18. The choir is aimed at helping yo!lngsters to broaden their aesthetic perception, develop · their creative potential, and extend their successes in music to better and productive . lifestyles. The c:hoir also provides counseling, six-day-a- week tutoring, and recreational activities - for the you-ths because its mission is not only to teach music but to prepare its members for productive lives. The <:hoir has toured Europe five times, visiting France, Holland, England, Switzerland, Sp\'in Austria, Finland, J:taly, and Eastand West Germany. It also has performed in Japan. The choir has appeared on three major television networ:ks, and was included in a Public BFoadcasting Service series. \Great Performances: Ellington and His Works.'' In 19go tbe choir was the subject of an Emrny award-winning documentary, \From Harlem to Haarlem: The Story of a Choirboy.\ Brown University Vice President To Give Minerva Lecture Levi C. Adams, associate vice president of the Division of Biology and Medicine at Brown University, wiH speak on\ Pluralism, Freedom, Leadership and the Academy: An American Dilemma Revisited\ at tile 11:30 a.m. Minerva Hour -on Thursday, Feb. 8, in the College Center auditorium. Besides his professiona I interests in biology and medicine, he has devoted his career to medical education, public policy for health and education, educational opporti.mi ties for Lhc disadvantaged, and health services for the poor. UNION TRACKr 0 . On FEBRUARY 16, !vi ~1 ( To your mark ... . The signup deadline for 1990 Outdoor Track is Feb. 12. All students are welcome. For details, contact Coach Dave Herrington Alumni Gym, ext. 6547. I 990, the Colle.ge Bookstore, College Center, will activate the returns of WINTER TERM TEXTBOOKS to publishers. Students please take notice a·nd make your textbook purchases prior to FEBRUARY 16th. Internship and Summ~r Job Opportunities •The New York State Assembly is seeking ~;tr,•denls for their 1990 Summer Intern Program. Assembly Interns complete Ml time professional assignments with Assembly research staff units. The deadll11e fqr application is March 15. •The 0C)w Jones Newspaper Fund is offering scholarships to minority college sophomores who will work this summer as reporting interns for newspapers. •The Alliance of Resident Theatres/NY cilrrently is accepting applications for spring and summer theatre internships in 1-tew York City. •McDonnell Douglas Corporation is offering several internships in electrical, computer, aeronautical,. mechanical and civil engineering, computer science, physics <:~nd other areas. •Lobsenz-Stevens Inc., a mid-Manhattan-based public relations agency; is loC)king for a summer intern. •The State of Connecticut is seeking qualified .CQIIege students to staff thirteen State Tourist Information/Welcome Centers throughout the state. •The Environmental Protection Agency is accepting applications from now .Until March 31 for a number of summer positions 111 New York City and Edison, NJ. •••For mgre information on these and~ other:cpportunities, stop by the Career Development Center on the ~t 1ird floor of Old Chapel. - RAPE CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady Planned Parenthood: Hotline: 946-2266

l I CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 3 CoiJe,ge To Establish Substance Abuse Program Un.ion College continues to have a vital interst in the health of Faculty and Staff. This concern encompasses the abuse of alcohol and controMcd substances as well as general physical and emotional well being. Now both New York State and the Federal Government have enacted laws which make necessary the College's reaffirmation concerning alcohol and drug abuse. Accordingly, the unlawful manufacture, distribution, dispensation, possession or usc of a con.trolled substance and/or alcohol on College premises, in College vehicles or while engaged in duties with the College is prohibited. Ally faculty or staff member convicted of a criminal drug statute crime within their scope of employment must notify either the Dean of the Faculty or Director of Personnel within five days of that conviction. ! ~ Faculty/Staff behavior wllich violates the foregoing wiH be subject to sanctions and discipline as outlined in the respective employment manuals. The College may require participation in approved rehabilitation programs to insure that anyone abusiNg alcohol and/or drugs is given the opportunity to free themselves from those addictions. We will also establish a program to inform employees of all of the dangers of sabstance abuse in the work place, rehabilitation programs available throagh the community and Ol!lr medical insurance carriers, and the policy of Union College with respect to substance abuse in conjunction with college duties. John S. Morris, President of Union College ·All interested students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to ·contact Ann Seemann, Librarian at x6277.- Reported Incidents ~ TIME LOCATION 1-28 2:45 AN South Colleg-e 1-28 5:21 Ml Maxcy House 1-28 5:19PM Achilles Rinl< 1-30 11:10 AM 36 Union Aw 1-30 1:30PM College Center 1-30 9:55PM North Terrace 1-31 6: 16 Ml Library 1-31 1:13PM West College 1-31 1:20 P~! Fox House 1-31 9:08 P~l West College 2-1 2:02AM College Center 2-1 8:10 PM Davidson Lo,t 2- 2 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 2-3 9:46 PH Campus 12:35 AM Potter Lot 1:15 A.\-l College Cen te:r 5:2 6 Al-l }!axcy House- 7:07 A.\l Raymond 7:20 AN Fraternity 2:40 PM Campus ·7:47 PN Fox House 9: 34 PM Fox House INCIDENT Vandalism to interior d·onr. Vandalism-front porch, window broken. Front door panic bar ripped off door. Vehicle blocking drive SPD notified. Trash can fire. Suspicious person. Advised off campus. Vandalism-window in music room broken by snowbal.l. Student vehicle towed for illegal parking. Vandalism-broken window, Core missing from ext~rior door. Temporarily replaced. Unauthorized entry by student Suspicious person. Advised off campus. Reckless driver. Pursued. SPP •notified. Left campus. Indecent exposure. GOA. Area and campus vicinity checked. Possible vandalism to painting on third floor. False fire alarm-two pull- boxes. Vandalism-window broken. Life Safety Equipment van- dalized. Items reported stolen from vehicle. Life Safety Equipment damaged. Conduct charges filed for burning material in room. EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERAriON 1400 16th Street NW, washington I DC 20036·2266 Harlem Boys Choir Director To Sp,eak Today Dr. Walter J. Turnbull, founder and executive diFector of The Boys Choir of Harlem, will speak on the work of the choir in a talk titled \Making A Difference\ at 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 8, at the College Center auditorium, sponsored by the Dean of Students Office and the Black and Latin Alliance of Students. Turnbull and the choir have received national and international recognitioll for their ability to encourage youths to take their lives in healthy, positive directions. Recently, Turnbull was featured on ABC's \Nightline\ and \20/20 NBC's \Today Show\ and CBS' \60 Minutes.\ Turnbull founded the Boys Choir in 1968 as the Ephesus Church Choir of Central Harlem and began a girls program in 1979. It now consists of more than 200 young people ages eight to 18. The choir is aimed at helping youngsters to broaden their aesthetic perception, develop their creative potential, and extend their successes in music to better and productive lifestyles. The choir also provides couNseling, six-day-a- week tutoring, and recreational activities for the you<Lhs because its mission is not only to teach music but to prepare its members for pro due ti ve lives. The choir has toured Earope five times, visiting France, Holland, England, Switzerland, Spain, Austria, Finland, Italy, and East and West Germany. It also has performed in Japan. The choir has appeared on three major television networks, ami was inc ludcd in a Public Broadcasting Service series. \Great Performances: Ellington and His Works.\ In 1980 the choir was the subject of an Emmy award-winning documentary, \From Harlem to Haarlem: The Story of a Choirboy.\ Brown University Vice President To Give Minerva Lecture Levi C. Adams, associatL' vice president of the Division of Biology and Medicim at Brown University, will speak on\ Pluralism, Fncdom, Leadership and the Acudcrny: An American Dilemma Revisited\ at the 11:3 0 a.m. Minerva Hour on Thursday, Feb. 8, in the College Center auditorium. Besides his profc:Ssional interests in biology and medicine, he has dev()ted his career to rn ed ic al edLJc at ion, public pol,icy for health and educatio11, cducation~JI opportunit ics for thL' disadvantaged, and health services for the poor. 0 To your mark ... The signup deadline for 1990 Outdoor Track is Feb. 12. On FEBRUARY 16, 1990, the College Bookstore, College C·enter, wi II activate the returns of WINTER TERM TEXTBOOKS All students are welcome. For details, contact Coach Dave Herrington Alumni Gym, ext. 6547. to publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook purchases prior to FEBRUARY 16th. Internship and Summer Job Opportunities ·The New YorK Slate Assembly is seeking students for their 1990 Summer Intern Program. Assembly Interns complete full time professional assignments with Assembly research staff units. The deadline for application is March 15 •The Dow Jones Newspaper Fund is offering scholarships to mmoritr college sophomores who will work this summer as reporting interns for newspapers. •The Alliance of Resident Theatres/NY currently is accepttng applications for spring and summer theatre internships in New York City. •McDonnell Douglas Corporation is offenng several internships in electrical, computer, aeronautical, mechanical and civil engineering, computer science, physics and other areas. •Lobsenz-Stevens Inc., a mid-Manhattan-based public relations agency. is looking for a summer intern. •The State of Connecticut is seeking qualified college students to staff thirteen State Tourist lnformationJWeicome Centers throughout the state •The Environmental Protection Agency is accepting applications from now .until March 31 for a number of summer positions in New York City and Edison, NJ. ..•For more information on these and m.aoy: other opportunities, stop by the Career Development Center on the third floor of Old Chapel. RAPE CRISIS SERVICE of Schenectady Planned Parenthood: Hotline: 346-2266 I: LANGUAGE TABLES Mondays: French, Hebrew, Russian· 12:30-1:30 Tuesdays: Chin~se, ltaiJan 12:30- .. 1 :30 . Wednesdays: German, Japanese, Spanish 12:30-1:30 Thursdays: Japanese 12:30-1 :30

Page 4 WRUC TRIVIA RULES Winter 1990 1. Trivia will take place at the following times: Sunday, February 18, 8-11 pm Sunday, February 25,8-10 pm Sunday, March 4, 8-lOpm (Note: Ending times are approlcimate) 2 If you know the answer to any question, call 370-6151 or 370-6154. 3. Each question that is asked will have a musical clue and a prize assigned' to it. \Th.e clue will be played continuously until a correct answer has been phoned in or the:. qucs:tion is declared a \stumper.\ The musical clue has one Df three functions: It can. lead :you to the answer, away from the answer, or just rea sDng that goes along with•.t:l!e tc.pic of thequestion. · 4. If a question is declared a \stm:nper the prize for that question will be biiYar<led to the next question, which will then have two pri7.est.. 5. Upon receiving a correct answer, we will play the famous trivia tones_ At:tbis .tiJ:ne, •no further answers will be taken for that question. 6. All persons who are the f=t to call in the correct answer to a given qu:est:bn 'Will be asked for their name, address, and the trivia team that they are .playin,g for-A trivia team can either be a campus dorm, gteek organizatiDn, or an inde[>endenU::y formed group. One point will be awarded to a team each time a member calls in• a· cDrrect answer. The teams with the highest point totals iii each of the three categori~{.dor.i'M, greeks, and independents) at the end of the competiti.Dn onMarch 4 wi!l·be·:narded a grand prize. 7. A team is considered registered the first time a point is awarded to it. Once a:pooirlt for a correct answer has been awarded to a particular team, it cannot be movedtoanother team. S.All questions are worth one point, except for the bonus questions asked ax the en<! of the first two broadcasts. These questions are worth five points, and li.av;e rt~ prizes associated with them. A more exact explanation of bonus questions will be gi\ec.as the .contest proceeds. 9. Protests of answers to any question can be made only at the end of each week's broadcast. Members of the trivia staff will remain in the studio for fifteen ('1'5) minutes after we go off the air to hear protests. In order for a protest to b~ accepted, the protester must be prepared to present the trivia staff with physical evi.d~;nce~t. proves our an wer to a given question to be wrong. If a protest is accepted, the .)><>int f~r that question will be deducted from the score of the team that originall:y ans:wered :it. However, the person who called in the original answer will still keep the. pr:ize he or she won. Protests DO NOT add points to the score of the protesting team sio.ce it is impossible to tell who phoned in the correct answer during the contest GOOD LUCK TO EVERYONE The Hosts ofTrivia 1~90 Bruce Pennypacker Nina Mehta Karen Schaefer Jim Eunch ANOTHER~~M I DDLE- OF THE- WINTER SUNDAY NIGHT? NEED THAT LAST BURST OF PROCRASTINATION? fi'JbJU 'it' CONCORDIENSIS, February ~~ 1990 \When you give blood you give anotherb~ anotheranniversat] another laugh, another hug, another chance. + .AmerlcanRedCross Please gi\t blood Blo()dmobil~s are being held at Old Chapel from 11:30 to 5:30 p.m. on the following dates: Wednesday, February 21, 1990 Sponsor group: Theta Delta Chi Contact person; Brendan Clifford 386-4105 Thursday, February 22, 1990 Sponsor .group: Psi Upsilon Contact person: Nick Baratoff 386.-4307 Friday, February 23, 1990 SpQnSor group: Delta Gamma Contactperson: Amy Joslin 386 .. 4373 Also donors can stop by Room 408, College Center to si,gn up for bloodmobiles. ,_. ........ ~1989-90 S-PRIN·G TERM~~--. PRESCHEDULING PROCEDUR~S Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FR.IDAY, F:EBRUARV 16. Studer.rts should review the course listing, consult with. their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their'first three courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVEHY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHE:DULING FORM. If THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission oJ the department. These are referred to as \list'' or \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing, by. an. asterisk(*). Lists 1or these courses wiU be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21. Students should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUAR-Y 23 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must get a reservation card from the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PlCI<ED UP BY 4:30 p.m. ON MONDAYr FEBRUARY 26 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOUT A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of. their prescheduling form. StlJdents may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However they may come any time AFTERtheir appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDUUNG WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIDAY, MARCH 2. Additional course changes may nel<t be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, 1st floor. . . .. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and· correct their preregistration form. They should then see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who wil preschedule them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Spring term should notify the DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE immediately. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Spring term do not need to preschedule their courses. Spring term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in the Registrar's Office in Whitaker House. Enjoy PASTA FAGGIOLI every Friday for only $2.50 with G·arlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!! y ' ./ ' r'

I I I I CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 5 Poetry And Fiction Workshops Co11rtesy of SUNY- Alba.ny· Irisll opet John Montague will conduct two eight-week . long writing worksbops, one in poetJ:y and one in ficti<>n, for area writers during his Spring 1990 residency with the New York 'State Writers Institute as Distiu.guished Professor. Admission to both community works hops will 'be by manuscript submission only. Guidelines for submi.tting poetry arid ·fiction manuscripts are avail11'ble by sending a self-addressed, st~mped envelope to · tbe New York State Writ~rs Institute, Huma:nities 355, University at Albany/SUNY, Albany, NY 12222, or by calling (518) 442-562.0. The poetry workshop will be conducted on eight Monday nights from February 26 through April 30. The fiction workshop will be conducted on eight Tuesday nights from February 20 through April 24. Prof. Montague will make the final selection of participants for both workshops. John. Mont:&gue is one of the majcr poets writing ·in the Enghsh language today. He has writte 1 more than ten volumes of poeotry, as well as a play and short stories, and has published translations, a~thologies, and volumes of criticism. His short . story \The Death of A Chieftan\ so inspired a group of young Irish folksingers that they adopted a part .()f its title as tlleir name, achieving worldwide fa,me as The Chieftans. Montague's work has been acclaimed around the world, and has been especially well- received in the state where he was born, New York. In 1987, Montague was awarded an honorgry doctor of letters by the State University of New York at :Buffalo. In 1985, he was the New YorkState Writers Institure's first writer in residence, and is the first to hold the title of Distinguished Professor. Governor Mario M. Cuomo presented Montague a citation in 1987 \for his outstanding literary achievements and his contributiens to the people of New York.\ The Go.vernor's citation fittingly described Montague as \a man ofdiverse backgreund who uses this diversity to search deeply into ,the human experience to write about Ireland and America, love and death, the past and the present.\. John Montague was born in Brooklyn, but was sent back to Ireland while still v~ry young in order that he might be raised by two maiden aunts in County Tyrone tD avoid the crushing..p.o..verty .in. America of the Great Depression. He was educated at' University College in Dublin, and did graduate work at Yale University and the University of Iowa. He has been a member of the faculties of the University of California at Berkeley and the University College in Cork. Montague has received many awards for his poetry, including Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships. Student-Alumni Association T.A.S.T.E. (TAKE A STUDENT TO EAT) Saturday,. February i 0, 1990 Sunday, February 11, 1990 Are you interested in joining one of our Alumni and their family for an evening ·of fine food, conversation, and remirliscing? If you are, you'll want to sign-up for TASTE! Sign~Up Deadline: February 1st Contact All:Jmni Office 370-6168 FEATURES Professor Gati - An Expert On Eastern European Affairs By AMANDA CLOTHIER Charles Gati, a political science professor, has been teaching at Union since 1963. During part of the 1970s, he acted as head of the department. He was born and raised in Hungary and immigrated to the United States when he was 22 years old. He attended Indiana University where he received his Ph.D. in 1965. He began teaciling. at Columbia University before coming to Union. His specialty is Soviet and East European studies. Since lea_ving Hungary, Professor Gati has been an active participant in the study and commentary of Eastern Europe. He has frequently been interviewed in numerous prestigious newspapeers and television programs. Some of these include The New York Times, Newsweek, Time, The Wall Street Journal, ABC's \Good Morning America\ and CBS radio news. He recently wrote an article for The Washington ,Post titled \The Future Looks Good in . Eastern Europe\. . He describes that,. \The prev(\ili~g mooo 1n this country about Eastern Europe has changed from euphoria to deep and unwarranted pessimism.\ He argues that the U.S. media consistently reiterates the poor economic status of the East European economy, expressing the belief that they arc incapable of creating any form of government even resembling a democracy. However, Eastern Europe has succeeded in moving towards a democracy by destroying the Iron Curtain and the Berlin Wall. These feats used to seem intangible, but regardless of their poor economic status they achieved them. He goes on to describe that \ ... compared with conditions prevailing today, the future is promising.\ It will not be easy to achieve a democracy, but with the high level of international support and their commencement in unification with Western Europe, this task will be less difficult. He concludes by saying that, \The peoples of this much-afflicted region deserve to hear the truth; that despite the enervating effect of defeatism_ and exaggerated Westerrr worries· and ·fears., Eastern Europe has a good chance to everitu.aUy join the European Comml!:lnity of free and democratic nations.\ Over the last ~ear, he has becom~ increasi,n,gly involved in Eastern European concerns and has travellecl to the East · five times and l0 Russia once. He has receive{! i:ncrcascd recognition, acqu.ired a lot of public interest, a!ld has given many lectures. In April, hi:s book on Eastern Europe, titled \The Block That Failed\ will be for sale in bookstore~. The book is being ,published through Indiana University. In addition, he was asked to be :a consultant for the Policy Planning Staff of the :State Department. Professor Gati has been an important person in the Union College community. Due to his k.nowledge on Eastern Europe, the courses he offers at Union are a great asset to anyone interesite:d in this particualr subject matter. Keep your eyes open f<lf Professor Gati in it the nex:t time you read The W~Bl Street Journal or wat-ch Nightline News! CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT SEMINAR 0 1 Dr. Patrick McDougal Georgia Institute of Techn.oiOQ'Y ''CREATING CHIRAL CARBONS'' Friday, February 9, 12:30p.m.-NW-222 Refreshments wHI be provided ORIENT AT ION COMMITTEE oc· Applications are being accepted in the Dean of Students office. Pick up forms from Mrs. Facen·da APPLICATION· DEADLINE: February 9, 1990

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS., February 8, 1990 FEATURES Gain' South: Part I By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. A young lad of ten was I when I found out that the better part of my fi.rst two weeks of Summer vacation were to be spent en route to Florida, in a station wagon, with my bratty sisters. The future was looking so bad that when my dad told me of my sentence, he had to bribe me with stops at Busch Gardens, South of the Border, and Disney World. He then hit me (though I knew it from the start) with the real truth: that along the way we were to make various \cultural\ stops. Whenever he hit me with a ten- cent word like that, I knew it spelled trouble, because dad knew I couldn't even spell the damned word. All I knew was the word reeked of learning, and as any sane ten year old knows, Summer vacation and learning are eons apart. rnissmg The Wacky Racers? This was either a dream or my parents found out I 'wedgied' my little sister and were really pissed oiL By the time my eyes and brain began to bum coal, I realized my little sister's snoring b.ead was lying on my shoulder, ~d that she left quite the saliv:a on my shoulder. This of course called for the traditional elbow to the ribs, which, incidentally, wotlced like a cbarm, and still does. Thus beg;an fight number one, day one. Of course, all of my sisters, arnd both of my parents, ganged up on me, the innocent victim of a goober. Such are the toils. After .about two or three other isolated incidents {of which I'm sure I was innocent of all crimes), we pulled into some pmny state and hit a McDonald's, en masse. One great thing about being a kid on the f()ad is that you get to eat at McDonald's every .two hundred miles or so, whicll is also one: of the bad things about 'being an adult in the same situation. Rest stops are a kid's only hope in the family station wragon, packed beyond capacity (all my sisters' fault), on a crash course with \culture\, a beast more horrible than any Dungeons and Dragons villain. The first of these hon:id beasts we encountered was Washington, DC. Looking back 0n it, it was pretty neat, especially when this kid fell in the long pool at the Washington Monument. Other than that, I remember a lot of tourists, and felt a bonding with other little kids, who would have much rather been hand-cuffed to a pole in .a wallpaper store than expesed to the Jefferson Memorial (didn't he own slaves, anywa.y?) The next stop. and I could see a pattern developing here, was Williamsburg. What a gas. People walking around in old clothes, horses, soldiers, guns. A kid could live here. Plus, they gave you root beer here .• which I think w:as what the Rebels Softball Team drank at games, so I was completely vogue in my Minuteman hat and ice cold ale at my lips. Part ll next week For the sanctity of my vanity, I left out the \cultural'' aspects of my family's voyage when explaining to my friends that this \Rebel\ wasn't going to be riding with the regular gang for a fortnight. We were known as the Rebels, because that was the name of Tommy's older brother's Bar softball team. We didn't know what a Bar was, but it must be cool, because the Rebel's Softball team was \definitely\ cool. Anyhow, the story worked, and I was safe from the ridiculing misery that only ten year old boys can know. Gone, But Not Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The Labmclor duck. The C;uolina parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. · The National Wildlife Federation is worki11g to save end::lngered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife federation. Monda)', Feb. 12 CC Aud. - B & 1 0 pm At some disgusting hour of the morning (even my clock was asleep), I was hauled out of my bed and told to get dressed. Was it Saturday? Am I • 1412 I6thStreet,Nw,Washington,DC . 20036·2266. W()rldng for the Nature of Tomorrow,. Admissi:on: $1.00 Sponsored by tiJ.e Fl7m Committee TAKE A COURSE OR TAEE A TRIP DO BOTH AT UNlON'S TWELVE DAY RIVER TRIP THROUGH THE GRAND CANYON! August 7 - 18, 1990 loin this ..Otlng adventure, led by professional guides, and coonlinated by •DI'. Or:orge Shaw, John ano Jane Wold. Ptofessor of Oeology, aod Chair of tbe Oeology Departmen~ at l:Jnlon Colle&\ In Schenectlldy, ·New· \York. For those who would like to ~X?mbine this adventure wi.tb earning aeademie reco-gnitiOn, Professor Shaw twJs prepared an .outline Ior both graduate and undergraduate credit (3.3 semester bourn). Earning aedit in the Grand. CallyGn will e.nncb your appreciation of the physical grandeur and give yo11 a cou~ you·Q'Ul u:ver forgcL • DiscoVer lhe btauty and variety of the Canyon • E~joy stile trips to anCient Indian· .sites • Tr.~vel through lime, exploring the billion·Y\'r-old rocks • 'Relax and take In tbe ~rien<e • Observe tllC aDim?l ldDgdom: bighorn sheep, d=cr. and the • ·F'~b for trout many birds and· reptiles of tbe canyon The following is included in the trip: • Tranl>port.ation from AagstafL Arizona to tb.e stan of the uip at Lee's Ferry • Transportation, at the end of the trip at Diamond Creek back to Flagslaff, AriZona • S1oragc of vehicles and·\-aluilbles ;~t the outfiuers. • Sl=ping ge;~r Including a oag ~ri! foam pad • A!lltneals, from fir>t day's ~tcaklast t<> I:!St day's lunch • TC:nt and pack rentals available· • Complete outfitting \'Nice in Flagstaff Gn:~dunte.nnd Contlnuine; StuU!t:S· Union College Wells Ilouse. l Union Avcnl.lt Schenectodj, New Yorlc 12308 Telephone (518) 370-0638 Deadline Fcbl\uncy 28, 1990 RCgistrntion Form (late registrallon on a space a\-ailable bas.is only) ·~-~.·---. 0 I ant interested In Union College 0 undergraduate. 0 g:raduate·r;a-edit ·(33 semester hour.;) 0 I am not interested in earning credit Name: ~----------~---...-~---- Address: Home Phone: L_j, ______ _ \V'ork Phone: (__) __ _ Method of payment: 0 Check (enclosed) 0 Mastercard 0 VlSA Card Number ____________ ~ ___ _ Expiration Date: Month 'Year Signature: A 5300 deposit Is payable upon registration. 12 DAY TRIP: FLAOS'l'AFF TO FLAGSTAFF: Sl6!i0 Tu!Ucn. for College credit (3.3 s.h.) S4SO a<idiUonal TRANSPORTATION IS JtESI'ONSilllLll\Y OF PARTICIPANT. Schcneclidy tnvel agen~ Susan.ll.<JSCR1~al Of Trm Travel (518·37~·2756) will give J<lU flight tllncs ~nd the best con.oectlons. lin New York State caU l.wJ-221·9211 X .272; out.of·slate l·300-Sl!H~95 x 212. 1989-90 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULlNG PROCEDURES Prescheduling materials will be available a1the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FI:BRUARY 1-S. Students should review the course listing,. consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable· for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first th;ree courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PHESCHEDUUNG FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THELR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are availabl.e only with the permission of the dep.artmenLThese are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and are so indicaiecl on the course listrng by an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be post,ed by the depaTtments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21. Students should sign these lists to indicate) an irderest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 to find (lllt whether or not 1hey have been admitted to~ the course. Those admitted- to a list co~;~rse must get a reservation card from the department. You are permitted to pick up no more tl1an thr~e (3). cards. PLEASE . NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30p.m. ON MQf!I:DAV, FEBRUARY 26 WILL . BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. t-10 ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOU'1 /\;CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. The date and time for each student's appointment is. printed on the label of their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule earlier than their assigned time. However they may come any time AFTER their appointmetlt11me if their schedule permits. ?RESCHEDUliNG WILL CONCLUDE ON FRII>~V;, MARCH 2. Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/acid\ f»& riod at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, 1st floor. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time ;!)tinted on their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the ·courses they !lave Chosen are not closed. If . one or more courses are closed, they should select new· ones and correct their prere.gistration form. They should then see a staff rnemberi n the Registrar's Office Who wil preschedule them. Students who do not p·lan to return to Union f,or the Spring term should notify the DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE immedia1el:w-. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Spring term do not need to preschedule their courses. · Spring term course prescheduling Will tal<e place frCJnn IIIIONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in Ute Regisfrar's Office iru ,Whitaker House.

Page 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 FEATURES Go in' South: Part I HI·STORY ··MO·N!TH. ~~~· CARL R. ,~'RIEDRICH, JR. :\ young lad of ten was I when I fuund out that the bc:tter p:lrt llf my first two weeks or Sumnwr vacation were to be ~pent en route to Florida, ian a station \V<.~gon, with my br~1tty sisters. The future was look:ing so bad that when my dad 11old me of my sentcnc:<.', he had to bribe rnc with stops at B1t.scl1 Gardens, South of the Border, and Dis11cy World. He thern hit me (though I knew it from the start) with the real truth: 11lat along the way we were to ID!ake various \cultural\ stDps. Whenc\er he hit me with a 1en- cent word like that, I knev,v it spelled trouble, because dad knew I couldn't even spell the damned word. All I knew was the word reeked of learning, and as any sane ten year old knows, Summer vacation and learming are eons apart. mrssmg The Wacky Racers? This was either a dream or my parents found out I 'wedgicd' my little sister and were really pissed off. By the time my eyes and brain began to burn coal, I realized my little sister's snoring head was lying on my shoulder. and that she left quite the saliva on my shoulder. This o.f cotuse called for the traditional elbow to the ribs, which, incidentally, worked like a charm, and still docs. Thus began fight number one, day one. Of course, all of my sisters, and both of my parents, ganged up on me, the innocent victim of a goober. Such are the toils. After about two or three other isolated incidents (of which I'm sure I was innocent of all crimes). we pulled into some puny state and hit a McDonald's, en masse. One great thing about being a kid on the road is that you get to eat at McDonald's every two hundred miles or so, which is also one of the bad things about being an adult in the same situation. Rest stops are a kid's only hope in the family station wagon, packed beyond c1pacity (all my sisters' fauh), on a crash course with \culture\, a beast more horrible than any Dungeons and Dragons villain. The first of these horrid beasts we encountered was Washington, DC. Looking back on it, it was pretty neat, especially when this kid fell in the long pool at the Washington Monument. Other than that, I remember a lot of tourists, and felt a bonding with other little kids, who would have much rather been hand-cuffed to a pole in a wallpaper store than exposed to the Jefferson Memorial (didn't he own slaves, anyway?) The next stop, and I could see a pattern developing here, was Williamsburg. What a gas. People walking around in old clothes, horses, soldiers, guns. A kid could live here. Plus, they gave you root beer here, which I think was what the Rebels Softball Team drank at games, so I was completely vogue in my Minuteman hat and ice cold ale at my lips. Part II next week Feb s - 4:30 pm • Walter Turnbull, Director,. Harlem Boys Choir - •Makin~:~ a Difference\ - CC Aud '11::30- Levi C. Adams, Assoc. VP •. Brown tlniverslW, rtPlurallsrn, Freedom, Lea~rship and the Academy; An American Dilemma Revisited\ • CC Aud Feb 11 • 3:00 pm - Gospel .Festival. !nvlt~d Choirs are Unicm, lntardenomlnattonaJ C9mm11nity. Choir of Syracuse, NY, SUNY Albany and others - Memorial Chapel, Union Co!le~e · F&b i9. 7:()0 pm • Pa41W R~/fiding Rt~crt~f. Or. Leo·m:ird $lad~. Chair of Atrioan-Amarioan \Pept. SUNY Albany - CC· A\.ld ·· Feb 20 - Afric~n-American bop:\(~u'\d art sale • CO' AtriJ.mi . ' ·:· ·-·~;~·::- .• ,_·b·, ~:~:_ .. ,' . .~>.- -: ~i • 11. am •oi 4 P!Jl B[I;~ck art p~st~rs and T-sl(iirts $~~~·,;\,:~ 'CG A.tritJm ·· · . . · · ... , ' ·· i· . . .. •··rem .... ·<! :·;;;········· '7:tio~'Pini,;f\ii6a,~G~~en *oS!a\?lt$ t~ . ··. ~n!'li!iiatiU~mi¢a;. · · ··.. ;$yat~ni\ \4)y. ~ildl!tlriu · ... ;· .-:·, lll'•>llfo .. ,,·,q. .·· ·., ,sl~qk·itit$tory J~~th:;~atty .fMt\~1\';;· .~y; ~j~t~~·· ~~~~··; .. ·. For the sanctity of my vanity~ I left out the \cultural\ aspects of my family's vo~age when explaining to my fri~nds that this \Rebel\ wasn't g<Oing to be riding with the re~ular gang for a fortnight. We 'iNere known as the Rebels, bee ause that was the name of Tom my's older brother's Bar sof-tball team. We didn't know v;fuat a Bar was, but it must be ~ool, because the Rebel's Softball team was \definitely\ cool. Anyhow, the story worked , and I was safe from the ridicwling miser~ that only ten year old boys can know. Gone, But Not Forgotten. IMAGINE: JOHN LENNON The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The Labrador duck. The Ca.rol.im parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is working to save endangered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation. 1412 16th Street, 1'\'\V, Washington, DC 20036·2266. Monday, Feb. 12 CC Aud.- 8 & 10 pm At some disgusting homr of the morning (even my clock was asleep), I was hauled out of m)' bed and told tCJ get dressed Was it Saturday'l Am I Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,., Admission: $1.00 Sponsored by the Film Committee NATIONAL WILDL FEDERATION TAKE A COURSE OR TAKE A TRIP DO ]QTH AT UNION'S T\.\'EL VE DAY RIVER TRIP THROUGH THE GRAND CANYON! August 7 · 18, 1990 1:'11n 1~115 CIC1!1ng adventure.. led by profession~:! guille!., aod coordinaled by Dr. GtOrge Shaw, John and Jane Wold Ptofeswr of Geology, and Chau o( lhe Geology Department at Uruon College ic S<henec1ady, N~:W York. Fur thC\~e who would hke to combine thiS adl'ltRture \VJlh earning academic recognition, Professor Shaw has prepared an :,u:I.ne /l)r both graduate and undergraduate c ledlt (3.3 kmester hours). Eamm,g oedit in the Grand Canyon will e::mh }0~1 arpreoatton Of the phy;1cal grandeur a11d give: you a course you will Be\'C! forget. • D~r..over the beauty and \'3uety oft he Canyon • Enjoy side uips to ancient Indian sites • Tr.~vel1hrougb ume, c.xplonng thct::lllilon-ye.al-old roch .. R.etax and take in the experience • 0~\.-rve t~e an1mal kingdom· bigho tn sb~ep, dee1, and the: • Fub for trout many btrds and rep111es of the canyon • Tra~por.at10n from Flag:sr.af{, A.ri10na m tbe stan of the 111p al Lce·s Ferry • l~.a:uponauon, at the end of tbc·tr ip at 01amond Creel:: back 10 Fl~gstarr~ Amona • S··-ragc of \<Chicle:; and \;:JluJb!es at the ou1fi11ers • Sleeping gear including a Dag and foam pad • All meals, from firM day's breakfast to Ja.st clay's lunc:h • Tent and pack rentals a-..-ailable • Comp:ete omlitllng service in Aagstaff G- rnduue ond Continuing Stu~les Union Colle-ge Wells House,. 1 t:nion Avenue :Sohen<ctady, N ... i'orl< 1l..l08 Tdephone (S18) l70-Q!;J8 ······-· .......................... ___ -··-···--···-··-----------------·-·-- Ilt'adl•rte le~ru:~n ZR, 1990 RcglStrattaa Form ~.Ute r~gUll.ll, Jn.on a s.pa~ a~a~:a~tc bd!:.\ only) -; I am •nteres.ted m UmGn U>llegc 0 undergradua•e. 0 ~raduace c.redH (3.3 semester hours) :-. I am not Jo•erested in eam,~g c:e:.d1t :--J~mc: Addresl: !lome Phone: (__) ______ _ Work Phone: L_j __ _ Me1ho~ o[ pa~mcnt: 0 Check ( mclosed) 0 Mastercard 0 VISA ~~~~---------------- Expira lion Date: Month _ Year _ S1gnal!Ure: A S.HXJ depos.n i5 payable upon reg.stra11on 12 DAY 1R!J'. FLAGSTAFF TO FLAGS'liAFE S16l0 Tuition for C<JIIcge credit (3.3 s.b.) $450 addltlanal TRAJ'<;PORTATION IS RESPONSIBILITY QF' PJ\JITICil'AA'T. SChcnecledy uave1 agent, Susan Rosenthal or Trc:vl Travel (518·3 74·2156) will give you Dtght llt:lles and the best oonnectioos. In New York Stale call l.S00·221-92ll x 27:1:. out.of·>lale l.[!()().SSS-1295 x 272. 1989-90 SPRING TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES Prescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16. Students should review the course listing, consult with their adviser, and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable .for students to have additional choices in mind in the event one or more of their first three courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDULE, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED TO HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission .of the department. These are referred to as \list\ or \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21. Students should sign the.se lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 to find out whether or not they have been admitted to the course. Tllose admitted to a list couFse must get a reservation card from the department. You are permitted to pick up no more than three (3) cards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30p.m. ON MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 WILL BE GIVEN TO THEN EXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NO ONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESCHEDULE FOR A \LIST\ COURSE WITHOU1 A CARD. Only these courses require permission cards. The date and time for each student's appointment is printed on the label of the.ir prescheduling form. Students may not preschedul.e earlier than their assigned time. However they may come any time AFTER their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDULING WILL CONCLUDE ON FRIOAY, MARCH 2. Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, 1st floor. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed on their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the courses tlley have chosen are not closed. If one or more courses are closed, they should select new ones and correct their preregistration form. They should then see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who wil preschedule them. Students who do not plan to return to Union for the Spring term shol!lld notify the DEAN OF STUDENTS OFFICE immediately. Students who will be on a Union College term abroad for the Spring term do not need to preschedule their courses. Spring term course prescheduling will take place from MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in the Registrar's Office ira Whitaker House. c c

,, ' \ • .,. .. ,.~ ••-<••-• ··•~ \• ,. ·• • - I • '• -· ~ • ·-·••.I ••' ' ' \Xlhen you give blood you give- another birth~ another anniversary, another laugh, mother hug, another chance. + Pleale gi\t blood Bloodnlobiles are being held at Old Chapel from 11:30 t{) 5:30p.m. on the following c:lates: Wednesday, February 21, 1990 Spon~or group: Theta Delta Chi Contact person: Brendan Clifford 38.6-4105 · Thursday~· February 22, 1990 · Sponsor group: Psi Upsil~n Contact person: Nick Baratoff386-4-3(J7 Friday., February 23, 1990 Sponsor group: Delta Gamma ~ Contact person: Amy Joslin 386-431l · Also donors can stop by·Room 408, College Center to sigll up for bloodmobiles. . CONCORDIBNSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 7 IMAGI.NE: JOHN LENNON Mq·nday, Feb. 12 CC Au d. - 8 & 1 0 pm Admission: $1.00 Sponsored by th·e Film Committee TWENT:IETH ANNIVERSARY of Wom:en at Union, Fall 1990 There will be a meeting on Mon., 2112 .at 12:15p.m., in CC204, for all those interested in working in this Women's Commission Committee. (BrinQ v·our own lunch) AND THE fl of UNH fOf an e. veru n g of coffee, cookies and a cappe\\a . entertainment.! · ~~(~\' . (Jl~ · · SATURDA'f, FEB 11 ,. .. _m,·_ ~

When you give blood you give another birthday, another anniversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. + American Red Cross Please gi\r blood Bloodmobiles are being held at Old Chapel from 11:30 to 5:30p.m. on the following dates: Wednesday, Februlll)' 21, 1990 Sponsor group: Theta Delta Chi Contact person: Brendan Clifford 386-4105 Tnursday, February 22, 1990 Sponsor group: Psi Upsilon Contact person: Nick Baratoff 386-4307 Friday, February 23, 1990 Sponsor group: Delta Ganuna Contact person: Amy Joslin 386-4373 Also donors can stop by Room 408, College Center to sign up for bloodmobiles. CONCORDIENSJS, February 8, 1990 IMAGINE: J,OHN LENNON Monday, Feb. 12 CC Aud. - 8 & 1 0 pm Admission: $1.00 Sponsored .by the Film Committee TWENTI:ETH ANNIVERSARY of Women at Union, Fa,ll 1990 Page 7 There will be a meeting on Mon., 2112 at 12:15 p.m., in CC204, for all thos;e interested in working in this Women's Commission Committee. tBring your own lunch) _, __ ... ·- -· -------- . -~ ~~~d·~t~~ ~\'fl5f\6£ fa},_---;--~---1--- , Jo\ n the. _, -,_-_-·-A-' ,-~,~-·n···--.------ D-- -- - -! A: -uF-- • I I I __..._. AND THE Taylor Professor of Mathematics \Voting: A _Paradox ... A _ Nobel Price -A New Result\ Tuesday, February 20th, · fl of UNH fof an e. ven1n& of coffe.e, cookies and a cappe\ \a~ Qntertainment! SATURDA'f, FEB 17~\ a1 4:30 p.m. Social Sciences Bui:lding, Room 104 Coffee & Tea at 4:00 p.1n. ALL ARE ' WELCOME TO ATTEND .::.,..-.»•···· .•... - ...... :.. .. . ........ .- ............ .

UNION COLLEGE FINAL EXAM SCHEDULE WINTER TERM 1990 Il\.1PORT ANT: This exam schedule is primarily for day undergraduate courses. A separate schedule for Graduate and Continuing Studies courses will be announced, and students in \Section 51 or 52\ courses should be alert for the announcement of the exam time for those courses. Conflicts in examinations should be reported to Mrs. Peck in the Office of the Registrar not later than Monday, February 19. Examinations will be held in the assigned rooms. Listed below is the code of the buildings to be used. ARTS - Arts Building BAIL - Bailey Hall BUTR - Butterfield Hall HUMN- Humanities Building NWSE - North Wing, S!E Center PYCH- Psychology Building SSCI - Social Science Building STZH - Steinmetz Hall THURSDAY, MARCH 15 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. ARS-070-01 - European Art: 1640 to 1850- D. Robbins- ARTS 215 BI0-023-01 -Cell Biology- G. Smith/ F. Lambert- BUTR 204 BI0-134-01- PopulationBiology- J. Boyer -NWSE 114 CER-128-01- Structural Analysis- M. Mafi- BUTR 109 CHM-040~01- Q1,.1antitative Chemistry- T. Werner- BAIL 102 CLS-021-01 -History of Greece- R. Stewart- HUMN 019 EC0-031~01- Microeconomic Analysis- D. Klein.:. !lAIL 203 EC0-054-01 - Law and Economics - L. McCarthy - STZH 106 EC0-140-01 -Labor Economics- P. Prosper- SSCI 112 EER-143-01- Electromagnetic Engineering I- Y. Chang- BUTR 106 ELL-012-02- Homes, Bldgs, & Egr. Principles- H. G. Harlow - BUTR 300 HST-013-01 -History of U.S. to Civil WAr- A. Ettling SSCI 014 HST-014-01- Hist of U.S. Since Civil War- A. Peffer- HUMN 117 . HST~025-0l -U.S. & the World: Early Years- M. Jonas- SSCI 012 HST~035-0l - History of Europe I -E. Hai1sen- IIUN.1N 114 HST-035-02- Hisi:ory of Europe I-S. Sargent- SSCI 104 HST-036-01 -History of Europe II- S. Berk- HQMN 115 HST-:036-02- History of Europe II- J. Finkelstein- SSCI 103 MER-040-02 -Engineering Design I - H. Lyons -NWSE 210 MTH-028-01 -Probability - J. Barbanel- BAIL 106 MTH-070~01- Fractals- M. Frame- BAIL 104 . MTII-136-01- Real Variable Theory I- A. Taylor- BAIL 100 MTH-140-01- Linear Algebra- K. Rosenthal- BAIL 201 PHY -049-01 - Laser Technology & Modem Optics - J. Newman - f'IWSE 112 PSC-047-01 -Law & Public Policy- J. Board- SSCI 010 PSY -030-01 ~ Personality - K_ DeBono - PYCH 113 PSY -0.50-01 - Educational Psychology .. L. ~tanhope - PYCH 213 SPN-149a01- Special Topics-Peninsular Lit.- e Qualtete- HUMN 014 THURSDAY, MARCH 15 - 1:00-3:00 P.M .. ACC-010-01- Financial Accounting I- D. Arnold~ NWSE 116 ACC-010-01 ·Financial Accounting I· R. Bernardi BAIL 201 ANT-015-01 - Intro To Archeology- H. Brumbach- HUMN 019 ARS-071-01- Medieval Art & Architecture- J,.,. O'ConneU- ARTS 215 CER-015-01 -Civil Eng. Computer Programming - Y X. l.ee- BUTR 109 CER-151-01 ·Hydraulics ... T. Jewell· BUTR 300 CSC-040-01- Machine & Assembly Language- F. Federighi- STZH 106 EC0-012-04 - Introduction to Economics - E. Foster - SSCI 112 · EC0·04Z .. oz \ MacroeconO:mi~ Thvrity & Policy- If, MQCwty - JroMN 014 EC0-129:.01- Modeling & Sim ofEco Policies- E. Motahar ··SSCI 103 EC0-137 •01 - Econ. Perspectives on Pub. Pol. - H. Fried - SSCI 104 EGL-018-01 -Introduction to Literary Fonns- W. Hathaway- HUMN 117 EGL--021-01- Major English Authors Ill- A. Frazier~ HUMN 115 / EC0-034-01 - Intro to Financial Analysis- B. Lewis- SSCI 012 EER-048-01 -Semiconductor Devices & Circuits- E. Hassib- NWSE 210 ELL-012-01- Homes, Bldgs, & Egr. Principles- H.G\Harlow- BUTR 300 ELL-049~01 - Nuclear Technology- J. Shanebrook- NWSE 222 FRN-010-01- Basic French I- M. Teixeira- HUMN 114 FRN-011-01 -Basic French II- E. Kirk -HlJJ.IJN 112 GE0-010-01 -Physical Geology- J. Damanti- BAIL207 GER-010-01 -Basic Gennan I- A. Warde- HUM:N 115 GER-011-01- Basic German IT- D. Lund.- SSCI 103 GRK-011-01 -Principles of Greek II- C. Sorum- HUMN 110 GRK -131-01 - Herodotus & Thucydides - R. Stewart - HUMN 113 HST-051-01- Modem Gennany 1815-1939- E. Hansen- SSCI 112 LAT-011-01- Principles of Latin II-- J.S. Scullion- HUMN 119 MER-026-01 -Thermodynamics- F. Wicks - NWSE 116 MTH-018-01 -lotto to Logic and ~et Theory- S. Niefield- BAIL 205 MTH-030-01- Ordin Differential Equations- J. Barbanel- BAIL 102 MTII-101-01- Advanced Calculus for Engrs.- A. Seikem- ALUM 307 PHY -011-01 - Introduction to Physics I - C. Jones - NWSE 112 PHY-013-01- Introduction to Physics II- K. Schick- NWSE 112 PHY-132-01- Electromagnetism II- J. Newman- NWSE 303 PSC-011-01 -Contemporary American Politics- J. Gather- SSCI 014 PSY-031-01- Abnonnal Psychology- K. Olsen.- PYCH 102 PSY-047-01- Intro to Health Psychology- C. Weisse- PYCH 113 SPN-010-01- Basic Spanish I- A. Noel~Gosh- HUMN 019 MONDAY, MARCH 19 - 1:00u3:00 P.M. BI0-066-01 - Sex & Sexuality ~F. Lambert-. BUTR 204 CHN-011-01 - Basic Chinese II - Mao Chen - HUMN 110 ,EC0-145-01- Managerial Economics- J. Kenney- SSCI 110 EGL-022-02- Major American Authors - P. Morse- HUMN 014 EGL~oss~o~ - Shakespeare To 1600- B. Mciver- HUMN 116 · ESC-011-02- Engineering Graphics- D. Bunk- NWSE 112 EX C~Oll-03 ~ Engineering Graphics - D. Bunk - NWSE 112 ESC-030-01 - Mechanics of Defol10able Solids - R. Eggert - NWSE 11 FRN-121-01 -Intermediate French II- E. Kirk., Ht1MN 112 · HST -055-01 -The Sovi.et Period- S, Berk,. SSCI 012 liST -124-0l - Ameri~an R~form Movements - A. Ettling - SSCI 014 JPN-011.:01 .. Basic Japanese TI- R.A. St$'1's· ltUMN 117 JPN-121-01-JntennediateJapanese II- Y. Nakagawa- SSCI 105 MTH-010-01 - Calculus I - S. Perera- BAlL 100 PHL-032a0 1 - Modern Philosophy -:- J. Judwig - HUMN 114 PHY-011-03 - Introduction to Physics I- R. Magahiz ~ NWSE 222 PHY -013-03 -,Introduction tQ Phy1il~r~ li ·- S. Mateki-- NWSE 114 P·HY-040-01- Order and Chaos: Art and Magic -D. Peak- STZl:I 106 PHY-119-01- RelatiVity, (}ravicy & Cosmology- R. Alpher- NWSE 303 PSY -010-01 - ~First Cours~ in ·Psychology - S. Greenberg - PYCH 102 PSY-038-01- Developmental Psychology- L. Stanhope- :PYCH 213 PSY -046-01 - Introduction to Psychobiology - C, Weisse- i?YCH U3 RUS-131-01- Intto To Russian Civilization~ N. Jernakoff,. }f{JMN213 SPN-121-01- Intermedite spanish II- M. Ruiz ~ HUMN 113 TUESDAY, MARCH 20 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. BI0-018-01- Introduction to Biology TI- K. Williams/P. Tobiessen- BAIL 207 CHM-150-01- Physical Chemistry I- J. Anderson· BlJTR 104 . CSC-011-01- Programming For soc. Sciences ... I. Qlstleberry- BurR 300 EC0-012-01 -Introduction to Economics - J. Kenney- SSCI 104 EC0-036-01- Financial Markets- B. Lewis- SSCI 112 EER -144-01 - Communication Systems I -.E. Hassib - S'IZH 106 EGL-022-01 - Major American Authors -B. MacDonald - SSCI 012 _ ............... _..,. \'\\ ? • •· +... • ____ T •~- ---\'-----~- .t ~---.!-- TT'i'nl'tt..'t 11'*i \0 ;,:, 3Q I'D 00 ~ ~ ~ t;j ~ \'=.'~ ~- -~ ·;:: ~ ~ ~ ~

.. !-; CSC-040-01- Machine & Assembly Language- F. Federi;ghi- STZH 106 EC0-012-04 - Introduction to Economics - E. Foster - SSCI 112 · :Bco-04z .. oz .. :Macroecbnoffii~ Thentr & Policy- 'f, UQCwtr - HUMN 014 EC0-129'\01- Modeling & Sim ofEco Policies- E. Motahar ··SSCI 103 EC0 .. 137•01 - Econ. Perspectives on Pub. Pol. -H. Fried- SSCI 104 EGL-018-01 -Introduction to Literary Fonns- W. Hathaway- HUMN 117 EOL-021-01- Major English Authors Ill- A. Frazier~ HUMN 115 MER-033-01 -Fluid Mechanics - C.S. Reddy- NWSE 210 :MER-164-01 -Solar Energy Analysis & Design- R. Wilk- NWSE 222 PHL-144-01-,Political Philosophy- R. Baker- HUMN 112 PSY -010-02 - A First Course in Psychology - R. Nydegger -·PYCH 102 SOC-011-01 - Gender & Society - D. Loseke - HUMN 114. SOC-129-01 -Sociology of Science- S. Zehr- HUMN 113 STA-110-01- Irtt;ro to Statistical Methods I- J, Lambrinos- BAIL 203 WST -010-01 - Gender & Society - D. Loseke - HUMN 114 I FRIDAY, MARCH 16 • 9:00•11:00 A.M. EC0-020-01 - Intro to Statistical Analysis- S. Yaisawarng- SSCI 012 EC0-020..;02- Intro to Statistical Analysis- S. YW.sawamg- SSCI 012. MTH-012-01 -calculus II- J. Muckenfuss- BAIL 207 ' MTH-012-02- Calculus II- V. Ferlini- BAIL 100 MTH:-012~03 ~ Calculus II - J. Muckenfuss - BAIL 207 MTH-012-04 - Calculus II - K. Rosenthal - BAIL 102 MTH-014-01 ~Calculus II- W. Stone- BAIL 201 MTH-014-02- Calculus II- A. Seiken- BAlL 205 MTH~014-03- Calculus II- E. Gillette- BAIL 104 MTH-020-0-1 .., Math Methods Social Sciences I - A. Prindle - HuMN 115 MTH-020-02 - Math Methods Social Sciences I - A. Prindle - HUMN 115 MTH-020-03 - Math Methods Social Scienes I-.. T, Bick- HUMN 019 MTH-020~04 - Math Methods Social Sciences I - S. Niefield - HUMN 112 MTH-040-01 -Applied Linear Algebra- T. Bick- HUMN 019 .MTH-040-01 -Applied Linear Algebra- W. Stone- BAIL 201 FRIDAY, MARCH 16 .. 1:00-3:00 P.M. ARS-131-01 -Great Architects- L. O'Connell- ARTS 210 BI0-062-01 - Wotld Agriculture- C. George - NWSE 114 BI0-144-0l- Cytology- 0. Smith- NWSE 112 BI0-160-01- Histrology & Organology- W. Roth- BAIL 201 CHM-134~01- Organic Chemistry III- J. Sowa- ALUM 307 EC0-012-03 -Introduction to Economics- L Cavalluzzo - SSCI 104 EC0-039-01- Public Finance- T. McCarty- SSCI 012 EC0-042-01 - Macroeconomic Theory & Policy - E. Motahar - SSCI 112 EC0-044-0l - East Asian Development Model- B. Reynolds - SSCI 213 EC0-055-01- U.S. Japanese Economic Relatns- H. Fried- SSCI 103 EGL~034-0l -Studies In American Literature- W. Hathaway- HUMN 014 EGL-076-01 - Modem American Novel- F. Gado- HUMN 110 ESC.;Oll-01- Engineering Graphics- H.G. Harlow- BUTR 104 ESC-013-01 -High Level Lang Programming- N.M. Mazur- BUIR 204 ESC-015-01 -Numerical Methods and FORTRAN- L. Almstead- BUTR 109 GE0~31-01- Mineralogy- K. Hollocher- BUTR 202 HST-037-01- European Cultural History- M. Bistis- S:SCI 105 LAT-138-01- Lyric and Elegiac Poetry- C. Sorum- HUMN 113 MTH-060-01 -Topics In Mathematical PoL Sci. - A. Taylor- BAIL 102 KPHL-068-01- Philosophy And Tragedy- C. Gould- HUMN 119 PSC-023-01- Topics In Mathematical Pol. Sci.- A. Taylor- BAIT., 102 PSC-077-01 -Constitutional Law- J.C. Laursen- SSCI 110 PSY-020~01 -Statistical Methods in Psychol.- S. Greenberg- PYCH 102 PSY -062-01- Practicuiri in Human Relations I- J. Giirdner- PYCH 204 SOC-163-01 - Hist. of Sociological Thought-S. Zehr- HUMN 115 MONDAY, MARCH 19 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. BI0-016-01 -Introduction To Biology I- P. Tobiessen/W. Roth- SSCI 016 BI0-170-0l- General Endocrinology- G. Butterstein- aAIL 201 CER-022-01 -Civil Engineering Materials- G. Gifford- BUTR 109 CER-152.-01- Environmental Engineering I- P. Snow- BUTR 104 CSC-012-01 ~Programming for Natrl Sciences- L. Alrnstead- BUIR 109 EC0-012-01- Introduction to Economics- L. McCarthy- SSCI 104 .1\., J. t CHM-150-01- Physical Chemistry I~ J. Anderson- BUTR 104 . CSC-011-01- Progr®Uning For soc. Sciences -1, ~tleberry- BurR 300 EC0-012-01 -Introduction to Economics - J. Kenney- SSCI 104 EC0-036-01- Financial Markets- B. Lewis- SSCI llZ HER -144~01 - Communication Systems I -.E. Hassib - S'IZH 106 EGL-022~01 -Major American Authors- B. MacDonald- SSCI 012 EGL-071-01 - Irish Renaissance Literature - A. Frazier - :mJMN 117 ESC-010-02- Mechanics I·~ P. Weiss~ STZH 108 FR.N:-147-01 -Twentieth Century French Novel - L. ·n~y- SSCI 213 GE0-011 .. 0 1 - The Earth & Life Through Time ~ J. Garver - BUTR 201 GE0-060-01 ~ Introduction to Geophysics - G. Shaw - BUTR 202 GER-121~01- Intermediate German ll- D. Li.md .. HUMN 113 HST-058~01- The Holocaust-S. Berk .. SSCI 016 HST -065-01 - East Asian Civilization - D. Thurston - SSCI 103 MER-022-02- Materials Science& Engineering- F. Milillo- NWSE 210 MER -030-01 - Dynamics of Linear Systems ~ M. Rivera - NWSE 222 MER-062-'01 - Thennal Energy Conversion -F. Wicks - NWSE 116 MFH-127-01 -Numerical Analysis- W. Fairchild .. PYCH 102 PHL-011 b01 - Philosophical Classics II - R. Baker/J. Ludwig - HU:MN 116 PHL-020-01- Classical Logic- M. Andolina- HUMN 115 PHY -011-02 - Introduction to Physics I .. A. Anderson - NWSE 112 PHY..;OB-02- Introduction to Physics U- G. Reich- NWSE 114 PHY~052-01- Classical Mechanics- R. Khosropour- NWSE 303 PSC-063-01 - Party PoliticS ~ C. TidnuttCll - :S:SCI 014 PSY -024-Ql ~ Social Psychology .. V. Dawson - J?YCH 113 RUS-121-dl- Intermediate Russian II- N. Jemakoff- BUMN 119 SOC-024-01 - Social Psychology - V. Dawson- PYCH 113 SPN-011-01 -Basic Spanish II - R. Vinick ~ HUMN 014 SPN-120-01- Intermediate Spanish I· C. Qualtere- HUMN 213 SPN-120~02- Intermediate Spanish I ~A. Noel-Gosh- SSCI 010 TUESDAY, MARCH 20 - 1:00-3:00 P.M. EER -031-01 - Electrical Circuits & Devices I -C. Traver - BAIL 207 EER-031-02- Electrical Circuits & Devices l- Y. Chang- BAIL 207 EGL-027-01 - Comedy- P. Heinegg -HUMN 115 EGL-036-:0l - Studies in Special Topics • :P. Morse - HUMN 112 GER-120-'01 -Intermediate German I- K. Hamm-Ehsani- HMN 019 HEB-011-01 -Basic Hebrew II~ D, Heckeirnan- HUMN 113 JPN-012-01- Basic Japanese III- R. A. Statts- HUMN213 :ML T-018-01 -Masterpieces Of Chinese Lit. -Mao Chen- HUMN 014 MTH-130-01- Complex Analysis- S. Perera- BAIL 102 PHL-017-01- Sex & Society- R. Baker'\ HUMN 114 PSY -034-01 - The Psychology Of Language .. T. D'Andrea - PYCH 213 PSY -123~01 -Psychology Of Advertising- :tc DeBono- PYCH 102 PSY-168-01 -Sen. Seminar In Clinical Probs.- T. Dowling- PYCH 113 SPN-132-01- Survey Of Peninsular Lit. I.- M. Ruiz- HUMN 116 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 21 - 9:00-11:00 A.M. CHM-010-tn -Fundamental Chemistry I- R. Schaefer~ BUTR 204 CHM-010-02- Fundamental Chemistry I- J. Gillies- BurR 204 CHM-Ol0-03- Fundamental Chemistry I- J. Gillies- BUTR 204 CHM-012-01- FUndamental Chemistry II- C. Scaife- BUTR 204 CHM-012-02- Fundamental Chemistry II- C. Weick- BUTR 204 CHM-012-03 - Fundamental Chemistry II - C. Scaife- BUlR 204 CHM-012-04- Fup.damental Chemistry II- C. Weick- BU1R 204 CHM-032-01 - Organic Chemistry II - L. Hull- SSCI 016 CHM-032-02 - Organic Chemistry IT - L. MaGahey - SSO 016 THE FOLLOWING DAY COURSES WILL HAVE A COMMON EXAM WITH Tiffi EVENING DIVISION SECTION: THllRSDAY, MARCH 15 • 4:30·6:30 P.M. CSC-140-01- Theory of Computing- D. Hannay • NWSE 114 CSC-014-01 -Information Processing- D. Cossey .. STZH 106 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 14 - 4:30-6:30 P.M. CSC-135-01 -Operating Systems- G. Williams- BAIT. 102 ? .. , ,I

Page 10 'THIS WEEK IN THE WORLD Quotation of the Da:y \The crux of the party's renewal is the need to get rid of everything that tied it to the authoritarian - bureaucratic system, a system that left its mark not only on methods of work and interrelationships within ·the party, but also on CONCORDIENSIS, February 8~ 1990 FEATURES International Tri'via 1) What country produces the most crude oH? ideology, ways of thinking and notions of socialism. • · 2) What 1'965 movie sparked the \Russian\ look in fashion? -President Mikhail S .. Gorbachev President Mikhail Gorbachev asked the Communist Party to forswear its constitutional monopoly on power and accept the prospect of ri vat political parties. He immediately encountered opposition from hard-liners. Current Soviet Power Structure Mikhail S. Gorbache\' is both the Soviet President and the head of the Communist Party The Party Politburo 11 full (voting) and 7 candidate (nonvoting) members Central Committee About 250 voting and 100 nonvoting mern bers. Meets at least twice a year. Communist Party Congress 5,000 members. Meets at least once every five years. The Government Council of Ministers The Prime Minister and about 90 deputies, ministers and chairmen of state committees. The executive branch. Supreme Soviet 542 membes. Meets twice a year. The standing legislature. Congress of People's Deputies 2,250 people. Meets at least once a vear. The prospect of Sovilet anti-Semitism surging anew has prompted officials to start cautioning nationalist and ethnic organizations agai11st provocations toward hatred and violence. The Bush Administration's reaction to the events in the Soviet Union has b~en cautious, reflecting both its uncertainty over the outcome and its efforts to fight plans for more cuts in military spending. A cut in NATO and S()viet aircraft in Europe has been proposed by the U.S. Combined with the President's initiative to cut troops in Europe, the plan is aimed at speeding completion of a conventio11al arms treaty. East Germany's power-sharing pact between Prime Minister Hans Monrow and the opposition was formalized by the Parliament, which also voted to add eight Cabinet members from the opposition to the Governm~nt. · A Romanian leader, Silviu ihucan, resigned. It was another sign that Romania's ruling group is groping for political equilibrium after a tumultuous week. Five Eastern European leaders met in Switzerland for an extraordinary debate 011 Europe's future, but the meeting was overshadowed by the pmspect of Gennan reunification. Courtesy of the New York Times 3) What Midd]·e Eastern Country runs an intelligence agency called Shin Bet? 4) What word for \mountain range\ comes from the Spanish for \saw\? 5) What popular sport's international governing body is known as FIFA? 6) What drug did Britain and China fight a war over? 7) What country do tourists go to in order to see aH of Niagara Falls? 8) What's the Spanish term for a female matador? 9) How many countries border the Black Sea? 1 0) What coldntry boasts the most head offices of companies grossing more than $1 million annually? u-ed-er ·o ~ JnOJ'6 BJOPBlEV'J '8 BpEUE8 \L- wn1do ·g s.Jaooos ·g EJJ9!S ·p 19EJSI \8 o5EA!LIZ JO~~OO .G UO!Un ~9!A08 9LJ1 .l SJ9MSU Chinese & Japanese Films To Be Shown Chinese and Japanese films with English subtitles will be shown free in February, sponsored by Union's East Asian Studies Program. The films, to be shown at 7 p.m., will be In the Wild Mou.ntains, a 1980s Chinese film o.f the reform period, on Tue~day, Feb. 13 Jn College Center 406, and Gate of Hell, an Academy Award-winning film set in 12th-century Japan, on Tuesday, Feb. 27 in the College C.enter audi!orium. · . Mao Chen, visiting instructor of Chinese, will introduce the Chinese film, and discussion will follow the showing. !\' In the Wild Mountains is an example of the new wave of films that ;~ere made in the early 1980s after Deng Xiao-ping's reforms were · :ttntroduced in 1978. §mrriran CColirgtatr ¥!orts I\?:Intbologp International Publications is sponsoring a J'iational Qtollrge ~ortrp Q:ontrst ·-Spring Concours 19-90- open to all college and university students desiring to have their poetry anthologized. CASH PRIZgs will go to the top live po~ms: . $100 ·_ $50 $25 $20 Fourth · F~r>1 Ploce : ~econd Place lhitd Ploco $20 Fifth AWII.RDS of ·publication lor ALL accep)ed manuscripts in our popular; handsomely bound and copyrighted anthology, AMERICAN COLLEGIATE POETS. Deadline: March 31 CONTEST RULES AND RESTRICTIONS; 1. Any· student is eligible to submit his or her verse. 2. All entries must be original. and unpublished. Poems previously printed in student publications are acceptable. 3. All entries must be typed, double·spaced, on one side of the page only. Each poem must be on a separate sheet and must bear, in the upper left·handcorner, the NAME and ADDRESS of the student as well as the COLLEGE attended. Put name and address on.envl!lope alsol (Alumni Welcome!) 4. There are no restrictions·on form•ortheme. Length of poems up to .fourteen lil'les. Each poem must have a .separate title. (Avoid\Untltled\!) Small black and white illustrationswelcome. 5. The judges' decision will be final. No info by phone! 6. Entrants should keep a copy of all entries as they cannol'be returned. Prize winners and all authors awarded publication will receive a gord,seal certiiicate ten days after the deadline. I.P. wlil retain one-time,publlcatlon rights for accepted poems. Foreign language poems welcome. 7. There is an initial $3 registration fee for the first entry and a fee of one doliar for each additi?nal poem. 8. All entries must be postmarked not later than the above deadline and fees. be paid, cash, check or money order, to: INTERNATIONAL PUrJLICATIONS . P.O. Box 44044·L Los Angeles, CA 90044 ,German Fil.m Monday, Feb 12 at 7:30 Eine Liebe in Deutsch land Rm. 406 CC ~I

'l CONCORDlENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 11 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES International Student of the Week By MICHAEL G:REENBERG Assoc. In·ternational Features Editor ' [Iaving grown up in Curacao, an is:land ir1 the Netherland Antilles. Synnove S meets brings an entirely different culture to Uniou. She joined the Class of 1992 last year, an<! also became a sister at Delta Gamma. \She i:s fluent in Dutch, Norwegian, English, and Papiamento • n Just where is Curacao\] It is one of .several former Dutch colonies in the Caribbean Sea. A native of Curacao, S ynnove grew up learning the variety of languages which are commonly Spoken on the trade island. She is fluent in Dutch, Norwegian, English, and Papiamento (a mixture of Spanish, Portugese ang other languages):. Having attended primary· and secondary schools in Curacao, Synnove then spent her junior and senior years at The Emma Willard School in Albany. After two years at a university in Holland, Synnove returned to the States and was accepted at .Union. Synnove chose to attend a Dutch college for two years because Curacao does not have any universities. \I coald have studied languages in Holland for four years, but I wasn't sare [of my interest], so I came to America because it has liberal arts colleges,\ expla-ins Synnove. She continues, \In the Dutch system, students must .start deciding their course .of study by the time thay are 18 years old. Here, in the United States, you really don't have to decide upon your major until you're 20 years old.\ Greek life is important to Synnove. While universities in Holland have something similar to a Greek system. Synnove describes Holland Greek organizations as being more like clubs. Says -Synnove, \We had three major LANGUAGE TABLES Mo.ndays: ... French, 'Hebrew, Russian - \12:30-1 :30 Tuesdays: I I Chinese, Italian 12:30-1 :30. Wednesdays:· German, Japanese, Spanish 12:30-1:30 D:o.n't Forget ~ . ~ SO's, 60's & 70's Movies on Every Monday night in February Tickets - $1 at CC Info Booth Send your suggestions (or comments) to Box 787 clubs at my university in Holland. They had male and .female parts or were co-ed. The members were students from aU colleges in the university, so the major clubs were ways to meet people from outside your study ditection.\ \I'm amazed at bow dose the students and professors can get here at Union.\ Synnove finds some differences between her current and former surroundings. \I'm amazed at how close the students and professors can get here at Union,\ remarks Synnove. •ir think this is good, but it amazes me. I think people have more :respect for one another in Curacao; that is, for their parents, grandparents, and professors. Even so, Curacao is not very stressful-- things are taken easily and lightly.\ She adds that American life is more hectic, \like New York City! Wow!\ There are several aspects of Am eric an culture which Synnove truly admires. She comments, \What I really like about America is that you have · incredible opportunilfes.~. Synnove Smeets Dutcih International Student People are easy to talk to and easy to say 'Hi' to ... \ On the other hand, Synnove believes that the nation-wide drinking age is \ridiculous.\ In Curacao, if one is 18 years old, on~ can purchase alcohol. Synnov~ adds that students in Curacao learn to drink long before they are THE. GERMAN CLUB is holding a legal. Synnovc recommends trips to Curacao. \We cat rice, fish, meat, and a lot less grease and fast food.\ Enjoying pastries and Creole-style cooking, Synnove plans to someday return to Curacao and work as a translator. POT LUCK SUPPER ~riday, February 9th at 5:00p.m. at Delta Gamma Fraternity House (upper left campus- parking lot entrance) Anyone who would like to take part should sign the list in the Modem Languages Department. Each person is expected to make and bring a dish (preferably German). Any questions call Shirley 346-6055; Renate 370-6833.

Page 12 CONCORDJENSIS, February 8, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Outside The Bubble By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Editor Fetal Tissue Implants Researchers repoited last week that an implant of fetal tissue into the brain of a man suffering from Parkinson's disease has alleviated his symptoms. Scientists said that the new approach offered the first hope of reversing the course of Parkinson's disease, which usually leads to steady deterioration of motor movement. Experts quickly cautioned, however, that the report was based only on a single patient and that fetal tissue implants were by no means .an established therapy for the disease. Researchers involved with the implant also said that there were still unanswered questions about the procedure and were unsure if the fetal cells would continue to survive or whether the patient would continue to improve. The implant operation involved taking cells from four fetuses and dissolving the cells in a liquid resembling body fluid. The cell solution was tl:.en passed through a tube directly into the brain of the patient. The active fetal cel1s replace original brain cells that have died as a result of the disease and secrete dopamine, a chemical the Parkinson's disease patients lack. The disease is a fairly widespread progressive disease that is not inherited. It leads to increasing muscular rigidity, tremors and difficulty in initiating movements. At least half a million Americans suffer from Parkinson's. The Bush Administration has recently extended a ban on using federal funds to implant fetal tissue into oateints on the grounds that such procedure might encourage abortions. New AIDS Drug Approved The Food and Drug Adminsttation approved a drug last week to treat fungal infections that plague people with AIDS and other conditions that weaken their immune systems. The new drug, fluconazole, has been used in Europe for over a year. It is believed to be more effective and easier to tolerate than other AIDS therapies. The FDA has imported the drug from England at great expense for several hundred people. The drug, manufactured by the New York based Pfizer Inc., is also useful for treating cryptoccocal meningitis, an inflammation of the brain and nervous system, and for candidiasis, a fungal infecton of the mouth and . throat that strikes up to 90% of those with AIDS. New Genetic Test Developed A new genetic test has been developed which is capable of detecting three-quarters of those adults who risk having children with cystic fibrosis. A more accurate version of the test is being developed to allow routine screening of every American for this genetic defect Cystic fibrosis is the most common fatal genetic disease of young Americans. It causes Author-Engineer To Give Founders Day Address A Princeton University civil engiu~~ering professor who has prom Jted engineering as artistry will be honored on Thursday. Feb. 22, at the Union College Founders Day convocation, a celebration of the founding of the College in 1795. At 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel, David P. Billington will receive an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters for writing and teaching that encourages the integration of art and engineering. He will deliver the Foundeis Day address and MinveiVa lecture on \The Historical Conections of Engineering to Art.\ Billington was ·a visiting lecturer in civil engineering at Princeton for two years before joining the faculty there in 1960. He was named full professor ir. 1964. He is the author of three books: Thin Sheil Concrete Structures (1982)~ textbook on large,~ thin-shell structures, including roofs and cooling towers; R o be r t Mallart's bridges: The Art of Engineering, an hisstorical study that won the 1979 Dexter Prize of the Society for the History of Technology; and The Tower and the Bridge (1983), which defines a new tradition of structural engineering as an art form. In much of his recent teaching and research, he has explored the connections between engineering and the liberal arts and has developed curriculum materials aimed at teaching engineering to liberal arts students. In 1984-85 he was a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, the first engineer in the 30-year history of that program. He was elected in 1985 to the executive council of the Society for the History of Technology and in 1986 to the National Academy of Engineering. Continued on page 13 a variety of symptoms. including abnormal mucous secretions that result in lung infections. Doctors are able to treat many of the symptoms. but there is no cure for the disease itself. fhe disease occurs most refequently among whites, and it is estimated that one out of every twenty-five white Americans carries one copy of the cystic fibrosis gene. Although the carriers are healthy, if they marry another carrier there is a one in four chance that their children will have cystic fibrosis. The new screening test was developed by doctors at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, and the results were recer:tly published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Cancer Predicting Protein Researchers r~port that a protein secreted by tumor cells can indicate whether women will have a recurrence of breast cancer. The finding will help doctors to determine which breast cancer patients who have had surgery would benefit from fu:tther treatments such as radiation or chemotherapy~ and which patients have been cured by tbe surgery. The new findings show that when cancer cells secrete large quantities of an enzyme called catht~!JSin D\ the woman is likely to have a recurrence of the cancer. New studies will continue to be done and it is expected that the Cathepsin D test will be discussed at a conference sponsored by the National Cancer Institute in June to advise doctors on tests that could indicate prognoses in breast cancer. Source: New York Times ·CLERGY PAN'EL TO DISCUSS INTERFAITH DATING ISSUES A panel of Catholic, Protestant and Jewish clergy will discuss. interfaitll_d~ting at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 21, in College Center 409 at Union College, sponsored by theCollege's Religious Programs Office. The panelists will be the Rev. Gary Gelfenbein, a priest of the Albany Roman Catholic Diocese, a professor at three area colleges and former campus minister at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy; the · Rev. Elizabeth S; Hall, associate pastor of First United Presbyterian Church,Troy; and Rabbi Julie Wolkoff of Congregation Berith Shalom, Troy. The program is free and will be followed by a receptionin Room 410. February 12 is ·the Deadline for SOCIALIZED MEDICINE SUMMER TERM ABROAD Applications UNDERGRADUATE SUMMER RESEARCH.· AVAILA'BLE FELLOWSHIPS Once again Union College will support an undergraduate summer research fellowship · program which Will allow students to work directly with a faculty sponsor on a faculty research project. This is the fifth year of the program,. and we have enough funds from the college, the Dana, Hughes and Surdna Foundations to award about 40 fellowships in all areas of the college. Summer students will receive free housing frorn the college as well as stipends of either·$1500 or $2000, depending on what type of fellowship is awarded; · · only students eligible for financial aid can be awarded the $2000· stipend\. Students from all areas of the collegej along with their faculty sponsors, are invit~d to apply. Applications and further information can be obtained from Professor Tobiessen in Room S324, S&E Center. Completed applications should be handed in to Professor Tobressen by noon on Friday, Maroh 2nd, in the ninth week of the term. Awards will be announced in the tenth week of winter term. Students graduating in June, 1990, are not eligible for this program. ' •

Page l2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Outside The Bubble By DON VALERIO Science & Technology Edit()r 'Fetal Tissut' Implants Researchers r-eported last 1vcck that an irnplant of fetal tissue into the brain of a man s uffcring frorn Parkinson's ciiscase has alleviated his symptoms. Sc icn tists said that the new a prroac h offered the first hope tlf reversing the course of Parkinson's disease, which u 'Ually leads to steady ,] etc ri oration of motor ltll)\'Ctnent. Experts quickly cautioned, h owc\'cr, that the report was h:N'd only on a single patient and that fc tal tissue implants · . .., .... rc by no means an t' qal>l ishcd therapy for the tl iscasc. Rcscarclacrs involved '\ith the implant~llso said that there were still unanswered \[UCstions about tile procedure and were unsun if the fetal (dIs would contin:uc to survive or w hcthcr the p at.icnt would C<Jntinuc to impro·ve. The implant operation involved taking cells from four fetuses and d!issolving the eel Is in a liq aid: resembling body fluid. The <:ell solution was tl:.en passed through a tube d ircctly into the brain of the p£Jticnt. The active fetal cells replace original brain cells that h.<lvc died as a result of the disease and secrete dopamine, a chemical the Parkinson's disease patients lack. The disease is a fairly 1vidcspread progrc::ssive disease that is not inhcri tc:d. It leads to increasing rn usClllar rigidity, tremors and di:fficulty in initiating movements. At least h81f a million Americans suffer from Parkinson's. The Bush Administration has rc cently ex tended a ban on using: federal funds to implant fetal tJssuc into vateims on t~e grounds that such procedure might cncoHrage abortions. New AIDS Drug Approved The Food and Drug Adminstration approved a drug last week to treat fungal infections that plagac people w ilh AIDS and other conditions that weaken their immune systems. The new drug, fluconazole, has been used in Europe for over a year. It is believed to be more effective and easier to tolerate than other AIDS therapies. The FDA has imported the drug from England at great e~pense for several hundred p~ple. The drug, manufactured by the New York based Pfizer Inc., is also useful for treating cryptoccocal meningitis, an inflammation of the brain and nervous system, and for candidiasis, a fungal infecton of the mouth and throat that strikes up to 90% of those with AIDS. New Genetic Test Developed A new genetic test has been developed which is capable of detecting three-quarters of those adults who risk having children with cystic fibrosis. A more accurate version of the test is being developed to allow routine screening of every American for this genetic defocL Cystic fibrosis is the most common fatal genetic disease of young Americans. It causes Author-Engineer To Give Founders Dav Address A Princeton University civil cngir11:cring professor who has prom )ted engineering as artistry will be honored on l'lmrsday, Feb. 22, at the Union CoJiege FCiuflders Day convocation, a celebration of the founding of the College in 1795. At 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel, David P. Billington \Will receive an honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Letters for writing and teaching that encourages the integration of art and engineering. He will deliver the Fou11ders Day address and Minverva lecture on \The Historical CDnections of Ellgineering to Art.\ Billington was a visiting lecturer in civil engineering at Princeton for two years before joining the facult.y there in I 960. He was mamed full professor ir. 1964. He is the autnor of three l:tooks: Thin Shell Concrete Str11ctures ( 1982), a graduate textbook on la,rg e-se'\;~e, thin- she! I . ~:~}':~·\-'~: ol structures, including roofs and cooling towers; Robert Mallart's bridges: The Art of Engineering, an hisstorical study that won the 1979 Dexter Prize of the Society for the History of Technology; and The Tower and the Bridge (1983), wllich defines a new tradition of structural engineering as an art form. In much of his recent teaching and research, he has explored the connections between engineering and the liberal arts and has developed curriculum materials aimed at teaching engineering to liberal arts students. In 1984-85 he was a Phi Beta Kappa Visiting Scholar, the first engineer in the 30-year history of that program. He was elected in 1985 to the executive council of the Society for the History of Technology and in 1986 to the National Academy of Engineering. Continued on page 13 a variety of symptoms, including abnonnal Inucous secretions that result in lmtg infections. Doctors ane able to treat many of the sy111ptoms, but there is no cure for tbe disease itself. The disease occurs most rcfcqucntly among whites, and it i.s estimated that one out of every twenty-five white Americans carries one copy of the cystk fibrosis gene. Although the carriers are healthy, if they marry another carrier there is a one in four chance that their clliJcLren will have cystic fibrosis. The new screening test was developed by doctors at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, and the rcsu Its were rcccr:tly published in the New England Journal of Medicine. Cancer Predicting Protein Researchers report that a protein secreted by tumor cells can indicate whether women will have a recurrence of breast cancer. The finding will help doctors to determine which breast cancer patients who have had surgery would benefit from further treatments such as ractiation or chernotllerapy, and which patients have been cured by tile surgery. The new findings sllow that when cancer cells secrete large quantities of an enzyme called cathelJSin D the woman is likely to have a recurrence ()f the cancer. New studies will cor1tinue to be done and it is expected that the Cathepsin D test will be discussed at a conference sponsored by the National Cancer Institute in June to advise doctors on tests that could indicate prognoses in breast cancer. Source: New York TimEs CLERGY PANEl TO DISCUSS INTERFAITH DATING ISSUES A panel of Catholic, Protestant and Jewish clergy will discuss interfaith dating at 7:30 p.tn. on Wednesday, Feb. 21, in College Center 409 at Union College, sponsored by theCollegers Religious Programs Office. The panelists will be the Rev. Gary Gelfenbein, a priest of the Albany Roman Catholic Diocese, a professor at three area colleges and former campus minister at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy; the Rev. Elizabeth S. Hall, associate pastor of First United Presbyterian Churcll,Troy; and Rabbi Julie Wolkoff of Congregation Berith Shalom, Troy. The program is free and will be followed by a reception in Room 410. February 12 is the Deadline for SOCIALIZED MEDICINE SUMMER TERM ABROAD Applications \ \ ' ' • \ •• • • ' '· • • •• : ' • • .. l '· UNDERGRADUATE SUMMER RESEARCH AVAILABLE FELLOWSHIPS Once again Union College will support an undergraduate summer research fellowship pr,ogram which will allow students to work directly with a faculty sponsor on a faculty research project. This is the fifth year of the program, and we have enough funds from the college, the Dana, Hughes and Surdna Foundations to award about 40 fellowships in all areas of the college. Summer students will receive free housing f~om the college as well as stipends of either $1500 or $2000, depending on what type of fellowship is awarded; only stud€nts eligil>l.e for financial aid can be awarded the $2000 stipend. Students from all areas of the college, along with their faculty sponsors, are invited to apply. Applications and further information can be obtained from Professor Tobiessen in Room 8324, S&E Center. Completed applications should be handed in to Professor Tobiessen by noon on Friday, March 2nd, in the ninth week of the term. Awards will be announced in the tenth week of winter term. Students graduating in June, 1990, are not eligible for this program.

CONCOR,l)IENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 13 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Union College To Celebrate N:ational - - I - Engineer's Week A look ·at the development of technology in the Hudson Valley in the 1800's will begin Union College's celebration of national Engineer's Week on Monday, Feb. 19. Speaking on that topic at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel will be Thomas Phelan, dean of Humanities and Social Sciences at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,. Troy. ' Douglas Hasbrouck, ex;ecutive secretary of the State Education Department's Board of Engineering and Surveying, will speak on \Engineering Ethics: Educating Students\ at 2 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the College Center auditorium. Sculptor Brower Hatcher will talk on \Engineered Sculptures\ at 3 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the Arts Building Room 215. At 7:30 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the College Center auditorium, Ronald Kline, a Cornell University professor, will speak on \Charles Steinmetz at Union College and the General Electric Co.\ On Feb. 21 in the College Center auditorium, two lecturers will focus on Union's historic 16-sided Nott Memorial building: Frank Griggs, vice president for academic affairs and dean at Merrimack College and a former Union civil engineering professor, speaking on \The Nott Memorial - Its Structure in Historical Perspective\ at 1:15 and Carl Geotgtt. a Union biology professor, on \Symbolic Architectural Elements of the N ott Memorial\ at 2:15. \Engineering as a Career Platform\ will be the topic of a panel discussion from 7:30 to. 9 p~m. on Feb. 21 in the Cpllege Center auditorium in wllich at least three panelist~ will participate. The tht;ee. all alumni, will be Andrew Vesey. mallager of research and :development with Niagara Moliawk Power Corp. and a member of the Class of 1978 in mechanical engineering; Jill Breedlove, a patent attorney witll General Electric and member .of the Class of 1984 in electrical engineering; an(J Ricllard Pikul, an engineering consultant and a member of the Class of 1966 in civil engineering. On Feb. 22, David Hil:lington,. professor of civil engineering at Princeton· University, will speak on \Tbe Historical Connections of Ellgineering; to Art\ at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel for theCollege's annual Founder's Day celebration. Capt. Bart Clark of the U.S. Navy Strategic Systems Program Office will speak on \E11gineering Accomplishments· in the Navy\ at 3 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 22, in the College Center audi:torium. The week will conclude with a talk by Union physics professor Richard Magahiz, a participant in the · L3 Experiment with subatomic . particles at the Europe-an Center for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Switzerland. He will speak on \The Design and Construction Challenges of the L3 Lepton Detector in Switzerland\ at 2 p.m. on Feb. 23 in the College Center au{fi:iorium. UDion College, a liberal arts a11d engineering college, first offered an engineering degree in 1S45. The talks are free. ELLIS HOSPITAL CEO TO SPEAK ON HEALTH CARE Sam Serrill, chief executive office of ·Ellis Hospital, will speak on \Quality Improvement and the New York State Health Care Environment'' at the 3:30p.m. MBA. Colloquium on Thursday, Feb. 15) in Room 312 in Bailey Hall at Union College, sponsored by the Co11~ge's Graduate Management Institute. The talk is free to the public. COOL IT! Hits The Campuses! Campus leaders across the country are joining a campaign to ricool II global warming, Through COOL IT!, .sponsored by the National Wildlife Federation (NWF), . cam pus leaders can start to · solve world-wide pollution problems by working in. their own communities. \The very words 'global warming' make -us believe that it is a global problem, not a local problem.. That is th.e misconception COOL IT! is designed to reverse,\ says NWF president Jay D. Hair. \All environmental problems are really local problems. And when they are not solved at the local level the problems naturally evolve into global dilemmas.\ By Earth Day, April 22, 1990, the 20th anniversary of the nation's largest citizens' d·ernonstra.tion, NWF anticipates that student-initiated COOL IT! .Projects will be wen underway. What is COOL IT!? \Studen.ts are this country's most creative leaders,\ says Nick ~eller, COOL IT! National Coordinator. NWF's program, he ex plains, encourages students to lunch local projects that attack the pollutio11 .causing globa:l warming. For example, some campus COOL 111! projects may double or triple the size of existing recycling programs. Other campuses may promote public transp.ortation, energy efficiency, bike paths a11d walkways, or try to per!;uade local food establishments to switch fro.m plastic packaging to biodegradable paper cups and plates. \We wttnt to structure local programs as sustairuble communilty projects,\ says Keller. \Ideally COOL IT! win contimue even after tf)day's students httve graduated.\ Author Engineer to Spe(l,~ • •. Continued from page 12 Billington has received the History and Heritage Award of the American Society of Civil Engineers. He was appointed an Andrew D. White Professor- at-large at Cornell University in 1987. Before joining the faculty at Princeton, he worked for eight years as sttuctllfal designer of bridges, aircraft. hangars, piers, thin shell tanks and missile- launch fareiJities for the New York City engineering consulting firm, Roberts and Schaefer Co. The Foun'ders • Day convocation marks the · anniversary of the signing of Union chwter by Gov. George Clin:on, the first charter granted by the State Board of Regents. The liberal arts college first began offering an engineerin,g degree in 1845. NWF offers students a jump- start on their projects by providing organizing materials, fund raising help, and networking resources to reach other campuses that participate in COOL IT! NWF has also hired five recent college grads asregional resource staff. This summer, COOL IT! organizers geared up for action with a two-week tramtng session in Washington, DC. \We're ready now!\ says Kristen Brown, a Stanford graduate and COOL IT! Northeast organizer. \There are so many good project ideas that I\m running to keep up.\ COOL IT! emphasizes supporting projects initiated by culturally diverse groups. COOL IT! organizer Y ewande Dada is assisting college students from diverse communities who are not tradttwnall y active in environmental issues. \African Americans, Native Americans, Hispanic and Asian American communities are plagues by environmental hazards and problems. We need to play a more active role in solving these problems,\ says Dada, A Spelman CoHege graduate. \COOL IT! needs everyone's participation to be effective.\ The Earth Day Connection Earth Day celebrations abound, ranging from glitzy to humble. The founder of the original Earth Day, Denis Hayes, has launched a coalition effort called \Earth Day 1990\. NWF is part of this coalition, which promotes local environmental educ~tion and action. COOL IT! staff will coordinate program activities with Earth Day 1990's outreach efforts. The COOL IT! campaign will culminate with a NWF report on student achievements toward addressing glo.bal warming, to be released during Earth Day 1990 activities in April. NWF will recognize outstanding and creative projects with special mcri t awards of $2,500, to be used for environmental programming at the college or in the commumity. Active COOL IT! participants also will have access to an environmental resume bank. IMAGINE: ,JOHN LENNON Monday, Feb. 12 CC Aud. - 8 & 1 0 pm Admission: $1.00 Sponsored by the Film Committee

·, i I ,, CONCORDIENSJS, February 8, 199() Page 13 SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY Union College To Celebrate National Engineer's Week COOL IT! Hits The Campuses! A look at the development of technology in the Hudson Valley in the 1800's will begin Union CoHege's celebration of national Engineer's Week on Monday, Feb. 19. Speaking on that topic at 7:30 p.m. in Old Chapel will be Thomas Phelan, dean of Hum ani ties and Social Sciences at ReNsselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy. · Douglas Hasbrouck, executive secretary of tfue State Education Department's Board of Engineering and Surveying, will speak on \EngineeriBg Ethics: Educating Students\ at 2 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the College Center auditorium. Sculptor Brower Hatch.er will talk on \Engineered Sculptures\ at 3 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the Arts Building Room 215. At 7:30 p.m. on Feb. 20 in the College Center auditorium, Ronald Kline, a Cornell University professor, will speak on \Charles Steinmetz at Union College and the General Electric Co.\ On Feb. 21 in the College Center auditorium, two lecturers will focus on Union's historic 16-sided Nott Memorial building: Frank Griggs, vice president for academic affairs and dean at Merrimack College and a former Union civil engineering professor, speaking on \The Nott Memorial - Its Structure in Historical Perspective\ at 1:15 and Carl Georg~, a Union biology professor, on \Symbolic Architectural Elements of the Nott Memorial\ at 2:15. \Engineering as a Career Platform\ will be the topic of a panel discussion from 7:30 to 9 p.m. on Feb. 21 in the College Center auditorium in which at least three panelists will participate. The three, all alumni, wiN be Andrew Vesey, manager of research. and development with Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. and a member of the Class of 1978 in mechanical engineering; Jill Breedlove, a patent attorney with General Elec~ric and member of the Class of 1984 in electrical engineering; and Richard Pikul, an engineeting consultant and a member of the Class of 1966 in civil engineering. On Feb. 22, David Billington, professor of civil engineering at PriNceton University, will speak on \The Historical Connections of Engineering to Art\ at 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel for the College's annual Founder's Day celebration. Capt. Bart Clark of the U.S. Navy Strategic Systems Program Office will speak on \Engineering Accomplishments in the Navy\ at 3 p.m. on Thursday, Feb. 22, in the College Center auditorium. The week wiH conclude with a talk by Union physics professor Richard Magahiz, a participant in the L3 Experiment with subatomic particles at the European Center for Nuclear Research (CERN) in Switzerland. He will speak on \The Design and Construction Challenges of the L3 Lepton Detector in Switzerland\ at 2 p.m. on Feb. 23 in the College Center auditorium. Union College, a liberal arts and engineering college, first offered an engineering degree in 1845. The talks are free. Campus leaders across the cour:~try are joining a campaign to \cool\ global warming. Through COOL IT!, I sponsored by the National · Wildlife Federation {NWF), campus leaders can start to solve world-wide pollution . . problems by working in their own communities. \The very words 'global warming' make us believe that it is a global problem, not a local problem. That is the misconception COOL IT! is designed to reverse,\ says NWF ' president Jay D. Hair. \All environmental problems arc really local problems. And when they are not solved at the local level the pf()blems naturally evolve into global · dilemmas.\ By Earth Day, April 22, 1990, the 20th anniversary of the nation's largest citizens' demonstration, NWF anticipates that student-initiated COOL IT! projects will be well underway. What is COOL IT!? \Students are this cou11try's most creative leaders,\ says Nick Keller, COOL IT! National Coordinator. NWF's program, he explains, enco11rages students to launch local projects that attack. the poUtttion causing global wanning. For example, some campus COOL IT! projects may d()LJble or triple the size of cx.isting rccycliag programs. Other campuses may promote public transportation, energy efficiency, bike paths and walkways. or try to persuade local food establishments to switch from plastic packaging to biodegradable paper CUJlS and plates. \We want to structure local programs as sustainable community projects,\ says Keller. \Ideally COOL IT! will c<mlinue even after t<Jday's students have ,graduated.\ Author Engineer to Speak ••• Continued from page 12 Billington bas received the History and Heritage Award of the American Society of Civil Engineers. He was appointed an Andrew D. White Professor- at-large at Cornell University in 1987. Before joining the fa<:ulty at Princeton, he worked for eight years as structural designer of bridges, aircraft, hangars, piers, thin shell tanks and missile- launch facilities for the New York City engineering consulting firm, Roberts and Schaefer Co. The Founders ·Day convocation marks the anniversary of the signiiig of Union charter by Gov. George Cl in:-on , the first charter granted by the State Board of Regents. The liberal arts college first began offering an engi.neering degree in 184.5. ji · . 'WJ%i''\\~\rHe~ i):e?ifffrrMeNr- --a~cl'--eloi.oG·v·c-Lus pr~sent \WHAT CANl 06 W:ITH A BIOLOGY MAJOR? or IF I v • • t DON'T WAN_T TO BE A PHYSICIANr WHY ·MAJ-OR IN BIOLOGY?\ Career for Bjologjsts (WilLIAMSITOBIESSEN) and CAREER DEVELOPMENT CENTER Thursday, Feb. 8, 1990 - 4:40 p.m. Social Sciences ·Room 112 Refreshments 4:30 • .:~ •. • • .,.;,,w ; . .-} ..... ,..,.,.,.,,,.-.-.-; .:. ,••·.- .... - ..•••• '•• ''· , .. ,,.,-!!•h- ...... · .. • . NWF offers students a jump- start on their projects by providing organizing materials, fund raising help, and networking resources to reach other campuses that participate in COOL IT! NWF has also hired five recent college grads a~ regional resource staff. This summer, COOL IT! organizers geared up for action with a two-week tratnmg session in Washington, DC. \We're ready now!\ says Kristen Brown, a Stanford graduate and COOL IT! Northeast organizer. \Ti;Jen· are so mar:~y good project ideas that I\m running to keep up.\ COOL IT! emphasizes supporting projects iRi tiated by culturally diverse groups. COOL IT! organizer Yewande Dada is assisting college students from d ivcrsc communities who are not tracl!tronally active in environmental issues. \African Americans, Native Americans. Hispanic and Asian American communities arc plagues by environmental hazards and problems. We need to play a more active role in solving these problems,\ says Dada, A Spelman College graduate. \COOL IT! needs everyone's participation to be effective.\ The Earth Day Connection Earth Day celebrations abound, ranging from glitzy to humble. The founder of the original Earth Day, Denis Hayes, has launched a coalition effort called \Earth Day 1990\. NWF is part of this coalition, which promotes local environmental education and action. COOL IT! staff will coordinate program activities with Earth Day 1990's outreach efforts. The COOL IT~ campaign will culminate with a. NWF rt'pon on student achic\·cmwt~ toward addressing global warming, to he rt•ka.,t·d during Larth Day ]()')() activitit'\ 111 April. :\JWF will rL'cognitc outstanding and creati n· prnjccts with special rnni 1 awards or )2,500, to hi.' thnl for cnvironmt·ntal programming at the cullq;e tlr in the commumity. Acti\'t' COOL IT! participants aho will have acccss to an environmental rcswnc bank. ELLIS HOSPITAL CEO TO SPEAK ON HEALTH CARE IMAGINE: JOHN LENNON Sam Serrill, chief executive office of Ellis Hospital, will speak on \Quality Improvement and the New York State Health Care Environment\ at the 3:30 p.m. MBA Colloquium on Thursday, Feb. 15, in Room 312 in Bailey Hall at Union College, sponsored by the College's Graduate Management Institute. The talk is free to the public. Monday, Feb. 12 CC Aud. - 8 & 1 0 pm Ad miss ion: $1.00 Sponsored by the Film Committee

~._· ~ !Page · 14 .~·.~,~ \ ·..., --:o~. ·.-. ~~~. •'\'\' \' .' , ,' ' r (!!stlfllrbirnsts -----Founded at Union College 1877--- The Price For Brains George Bush is the self-professed \education p:r:esident,\ and so his words and deeds in this critical area should be closely examined. If he does not live up to hrs own high standards, then we should be wary of his rhetoric in the future. We did not expect Ronaid Reagan to do anything that would benefit the school's of America, and, true to his word, he did not. But the Bush years are an opportunity for the United States to make up for lost_ time. Education was prominent among the agenda that J3 ush put forth in his State of the Union Address on January 31. Said Bush: \Real improvement in our :schools is not simply a matter of spending more. It is a matter of asking more--expecting more: of our schools, our teachers, of our kids and our parents and ourselves. \ The president says that we do not have to spend more. Who does not have to spend more? The only way to get the qua1ity that Bush talks about is by :spending more. This is something that we hav:e grown all too familiar with as Union's costs continue to mcrease. The president says that expecting more will solve the problem. He names the people and things of whom we should demand more, but are these people and things really out there? The greatest education problems in the country are found in 'the inner cities. In those places it will take more than just demands to rectify the situation. Classrooms are overcrowded. Teachers are underpaid. Kids bring switchblades, and worse, to class, provided they can get them past the metal detectors that nave been installed. Parents do not know and often do not care about the academic lives of their kids. Will words solve these problems? It takes money to build new and better facilities for ,an environment more conducive to learning. It takes money to attract the most qualified and enthusiastic teachers and then to keep them teaching. lt is highly doubtful that a message can instill a new resolve in our youth. If you were to tell some of the kids that they :should do something because Bush says that they ;should, they might inquire as to what illicit substance Bush is offering as a reward for cooperation. The parents themselves must also be educated. The most difficult generation to teach is the generation whose parents are uneducated. Remedial work is essential, and this too would require money. So far we have addressed the lower rungs of the schooling ladder, but Bush seems to have negl~cted the higher steps. In words, he SUJ:S ~hat we ~ust 1mp~o~e relative to the other industnahzed natwns. This IS something no one can dispute. But higher education also needs money. If Bush plans do work and we_ do start to graduate more than 90 percent from h1gh school this would not be in itself enough. It would not do mu~h good in the bigger arena if our high school graduates cannot go on to be college graduates and !beyond. The major impediment to higher education is its cost. We want to have the best scientists and the best •engineers, but if these people cannot afford to go to the best schools then what difference does what we want make? Union's most recent tuition hike was about $2.000, which seems to be what we have come to ·expect every year. Other schools are similarly increasing costs by substantial amounts. Bush set~ h1s time frame for his goals at the year 2000. By that tune, who knows whether the average American will be able to afford to realize Bush's goals. Money is not the only answer, but it is a vital part of it. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the ., . opinions of the Editorial Board. CONCORDIENSJS, February 8, 1990 LET'TERS Publish or Perish To the Editor: Professor L. McGahey is an Organic Chemistry professor and any one of the undersigned students wW attest to both his skill and devotion as a teacher. We wish to express our opposition to the administratio.n 's decision to let Professor McGahey go as well as the general trend in school policy this seems to indicate. Professor McGahey is a talented professor who is able to clearly explain complex ideas, and more importantly. he truly cares about his students and is always there to provide extra help. His efforts aid in turning out well-educated students and promote healthy faculty-student relationships. By not rehiring Professor McGahey this college is revealing a set of priorities which is inconsistent with that of its students. The administration would prefer a professor who would get his· name in scientific journals a little more often .. A<lmitted1y, strong research is an integral part of a quality school, however we believe that a professor is more tha!l the sum of his published articles. One of Unions greatest strengths is the amount of individual attention available to students and the reputation for professors who care about tbeir teaching, not just thei; research. Above all, our goal at Union College is to learn, and Professor McGahey· is impeccable as a teacher and lecturer. With the lamentable decision to· let gp .of him, we feel that the administration is losing sight or our goals, and the type of education Union is supposed to s1and for. Sincerely, Wmter Term Organic Chemistry Students Editors il.ote:· {There were (17 signatures to this letter, ·but in the interest of .space conservatioll, the signatures were i'e]>laced wirh this inclusive c;l()sing.) Students Unite-- Revolt Now! To the Editor: Why wait until May to revolt against the overnight disappearance ofa much loved tradition, Camp Union? Camp Union is a unique opp~rtunity for the unification of the entire student body, Greeks and independents alike. Although some may say it was \geared 1 · toward drinking beyond a level that the school could tolerate any longer,\ this attitude is insulting and narrow-minded. There is . more attracting - · . 2,000 students together on West beach than the ·mere prospect of drinking to excess. The bands, the Spring weather, game playing, and the magnitude of the vent make up the essence of Camp Union. The opportunity to drink is not confined to this weekend or else we would have no need for a new social policy. Unfortunately, this institution finds it a simpler solution to do away with issues than to compromise. Compromises do exist, and . it is about time the administration added that work to, their vocabulary. Security WS\S raised as a reason to eliminate Camp Union .. However, .security is a year round problem, and to use this as an excuse is grasping at straws. It need not be an obstacle, since the lqgical answer would be to increase security on this particular day. Furthermore, the New York AIL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO TIIE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 'ZJ.:'oO P.M. ON THETUESDA Y · PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LE'ITERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS Wfi.L NOT BE ACCEPTED. State law .has been brought up as another attempt to destroy Camp Union. Yet, the new social policy resulting from the law is making parties more responsible; why can't Camp Union be given tile same chance? · The administration boasts giving the students a voice when in reality they impose alternative upon US, acceptable and fun only in their eyes. Outdoor movies and bands on the College Center patio throughout the term could never evoke the mlity and spirit that Camp Union achieves in one day. The loss of Delta Chi, and the change in the academic calenda~ epitomize the adminsuation's lack of consideration for the students' wishes. In the case of the academic calendar,. students were not i11formed until the decision was made. Furthermore, Delta Chi was eradicated regardless of our protests. What's next? It's time to end the ~pathy and show the administra.tio·n that we are responsible adults who will stand up for what we believe in. Don't bet Camp Union become '\jus:t a few pages in Some old :Yearbooks.\ Jocelyn Kom '92 Sllzanne LaDuke '92 Elizabeth Pinney '92

Page 14 @nnrorbirnsis -------Founded at Union College 1877--- The Price For Brains George Bush Is the self-professed \education president,\ and so his words and deeds in this critical area should be closely examined. If he does not live up to his own high standards, then we should be wary of his rhetoric .in the future. We did not expect Ronald Reagan to do .anything that would benefit the schools of America, and> true to his word, he did not. But the Bush years are an opportunity for the United States to make up for los~ time. Education was prominent among the agenda that Bush put forth in his State of the Union Address on January 31. Said Bush: \Real improvement in our schools is not simply a matter of spending more. It is a matter of asking more--expecting more: of our schools, our teachers, of our kids and our parents and ourselves.\ The president says that we do not have to spend more. Who does not have to spend more? The only way to get the quality that Bush talks about is by spending more. This is something that we have grown all too familiar with as Union's costs continue to increase. The president says that expecting more will solve the problem. He names the people and things of whom we should demand more, but are these people and things really out there'! The greatest education problems in the country are found in the inner cities. In those places it will take more than just demands to rectify the situation. Classrooms are overcrowded. Teachers are underpaid. Kids bring switchblades, and worse, to class, provided they can get them p~1st the metal detectors that have been installed. Parents do not know and often do nat care about the academic lives of their kids. Will words solve these problems? It takes money to build new and better facilities for an environment more conducive to learning. It takes money to attr<K't the most qualified and enthusiastic te-achers and then to keep them teaching. It is highly doubtful that a message can instill a new resolve in our youth. If you were to tell sorne of the kids that they should do something because Bush says that they should, they might inquire as to what illicit substance Bush is offering as a reward for cooperation. The p:trents themsc lves must also be educated. The most di!'ficul t !!.cneration to teach is the generation whose p~trrnts a~e uneducated. Remedial work is essential, anc.J this too would require money. So far we have addressed the lower rungs of the schooling ladder, but Bush seems to have negl~cted the higher steps. In words, he says that we f!1LISt 1mp~o~e relative to the other industrialized nauons. Th1s. 1s something no one can dispute. But higher education also needs money. If Bush plans do work and we do start to graduate more than 90 percent from high school, this would not be in itself enough. It would not do much good in the bigger arena if our high school graduates cann()t go on to be college graduates and beyond. The major impediment to higher education is its cost. We want to have the best scientists and the best e11gineers, but if these people cannot afford to go to the best schools then what difference does what we want make? Union's most recent tuition hike was about $2 000 which seems to be what we have come to expect' every year. Othe: schools are similarl.Y increasing costs by substantwl amounts. Bush set~ his time frame for his goals at the year 2000. By that tlme, who knows whether the average American will be able to afford to realize Bush's goals. Money is not the only answer, but it i~ a vital part of it. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • opinions of the Editorial Board. CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 LETTERS Publish or Perish To the Editor: Professor L. McGahey is an Organic Chemistry professor and any one of the undersigned students will attest to bo~h his skill and devotion as a teacher. We wish to express our opposition to the administration's decision to let Professor McGahey go as well as the general trend in school policy this seems to indicate. Professor McGahey is a talented professor who is able to clearly explain complex ideas, and more importantly, he truly cares about his students and is always there to provide extra help. His efforts aid in turning out well-educated students and promote healthy faculty-student relationships. By not rehiring Professor McGahey this college is revealing a set of priorities which is inconsistent with that of its students. The administration wou:ld prefer a professor wllo would get his name in scientific journals a little more often. Admittedly, strong research is an integral part of a quality school, however we believe that a professor is more than the sum of his published articles. One of Unions greatest strengths is the amount of individual attention available to students and the reputation for professors who care atm1t their teaching, no·t just their research. Above all, our goal at Union College is to learn, and Professor McGahey is impeccable as a teacher and lecturer. With the lamentable decision to let go of 1J.im, we feel that the administration is losing sight of our goals, and the type of education Union is supposed to stand for. Sincerely, Winter Tenn Organic Chemistry Students Editors note: (There wet:e 67 signatures to this letter, but in the interest of space conservation, the signatures were replaced with this inclusive closing.) Students Unite-- Revolt Now! To the Editor: Why wait until May to revolt against the overnight disappearance of a much loved tradition, Camp Union? Camp Union is a unique opportunity for the unification of the entire student body, Greeks and independents alike. Although some may say it was \geared toward drinking beyond a level that the school could tolerate any longer,\ this attitude is insulting and narrow-minded. There is more attracting 2,000 students together on West beach than the mere prospect of drinking to excess. The bands, the Spring weather, game playing, and the magnitude of the vent make up the essence of Camp Union. The opportunity to drink is not confined to this weekend or else we would ha vc no need for a new social policy. Unfortunately, this institution finds it a simpler solution to do away with issues than to com prom isc. Compromises do exist, and it is about time the administration added that work to their vocabulary. Security was raised as a reason to eliminate Camp Union. However, security is a year round problem, and to use this as an excuse is grasping at straws. It need not be an obstacle, since the logical dnswcr would be to increase security on this particular day. Furthermore, the New York ALL LETI'ERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED, AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00P.M. ON THE TUESDAY PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED; State law has beeR brought up as another attempt to destroy Camp Union. Yet, the new social policy resulting from the law is making parties more responsible; why ca11't Camp Union be given the same chance? The administration boasts giving the students a voice when in reality they impose alternative upon us, a-eceptable and fun only in their eyes. Outdoor movies and bands on the College Center patio throughout the term could never evoke the unity and spirit that Camp Union achieves in one day. The loss of Delta Chi, and the change in the academic calendar epitomize the adminstration's lack of consideration for the students' wishes. In the case of the academic calendar, students were not informed until the decision was made. Furthermore, Delta Chi was eradicated regardless of our protests. What's next? It's time to end the apathy and show the administration that we are responsible adults who will stand up for what we believe in. Don't let Camp Union become \just a few pages in some old yearbooks.\ Jocelyn Korn '92 Suzanne LaDuke '92 Elizabeth Pinney '92 Editors-in-Chief AnGirew Seewald. R;. ~eed Wbidden News Editors ·Elise Foody, Jay Fieellmd Feature Editors Desmond W~ Sll1JU1® SllaK~r International Features Editor · · Aime Simon: Assoc. Intemalionitl Features Editor :Mic~l Oreeooerg Science and Teclmo:logy Editot . ··Don ·Vaterio · Commenrartes Page Editors Debra B. Honig~ Jason .. Meshnick Arts Editor · Dina Schweitzer Associa~ Atts Editor . Kim. Ctttey Campus Page ·EditOJS Leslie Morris. Amy Scn~cbOOvsky . Sp<>rts Editors . . ~IcZill}mennan .• And¥ Btaver Photography Edit6m Allison Howard. Mary ~lleu. Wi\lg · · Copy Ediitor · · A.~~ 1hln ; · .. Unite(l t.H~~vo·.· Mail t() ... f) o.nc~(J:r(l,il4l.bS1$ QJ!J1Ce~ · College Center~ Uq.ioa . . .. t!oncordiensls sub$¢rllb¢'s to the intercollegiate Pr<1ss 01rice Tetepbone (:US) 6155, Advertising Telephone . 370-6494. ~·

CONCORDIENSIS,' February 8, 19~11 Page 15 Silence Not Golden To the Editor: There is no need for women to keep sitence about what is important to us. For many past centuries women have been excluded from public discourse; our concerns and lives have hung, suspended, in a vacuum of imposed silence. Today if we fmd the words to express what happens to us and in us, there is really no reason to :fear s11pression and no reason to go back to silence. So if Judith Barr names menstruation sacred,. there may Failure- To the Editor: As we inter Soviet Communismi let us not lapse into an \Well it was a good theory\ eulogy. We must judge a theory's \goodness\ with respect to its feasibility. In order to be feasible a· social theory must accommodate economic. political.,~ and social realities including peoples' rights. Communism fails to address any of these factors. Communist economic and ~wen be cause to celebrate. If . some of us discuss child sexual · abuse openly as the trauma that it is, there is camaraderie amongst its victims~ If women . on campus. explore anorexia and bulimiajn dialogue, there is healing. The times have changed,. and they continue to change as women's voices-- our true voic.es-- add what we have known and what we love to the public discourse. Linda E. Pattik Philosophy Department R.I.P. politial theories do not work .. unless Lenins and Stalins, etc. ·inake them function hy investing in human misery and denying freedoms that we consider \inalienable.\ A social theory can't be considered \good\ if it lacks a realistic, humanitarian method for realizing its goals. We should remember Soviet Communism as a failed throry- . not a good one. Dail. Waible '91 Congratulations to the New Editors-in-Chief of Concordiensis: Elise Foody and Andrew Seewald will start Spring Term 1990 AMNEST·V INTERNATIONAL meet·ings 8:30p.m. Wednesdays CC203 You've g:otta fight for human _ _rights!! Som~thing new un --er the· sun . - .. Union's Own COFFEE HOUSE GoQd Coffee (Politically correct even) HOMEMADE BREADS and MUSIC A sort of sophisticated Skellar - stop in for a while and Reclaim Your College Center! 7:30-10:30 p.m.- Fridays CC302 starting Friday 2/16 · LETTERS Critic Criticized To the Editor: Last week you published \Can Women Really Find Themselves Through Menstruation? The Sacred Period: A Menstrual Jurney .. \ A Review by Jufie Medow. I appreciate the .comiJlexity of \A Review\ of a p(frformance. I was a dance ''reviewer\ for 20' years. There is the -time, place, perhaps the nuntber attending, who is sponsoring or underwriting it, even information from the program notes. Then there is the performance itself, with its subject matter, actual rnanner of presentation, 1 ighting, costuming, ,p:rops used, sounds or music, etc. Clearly documentable audience response is appropriate here, e.g.,they sat in silence,. 1·2 minutes of applause, 2 standing ovations. Ihis is discriptive: what actually took place, written for those who did not attend, as well as a reminder for those who did. It is a \review\ of the \perfonnance\. Mter being intentionally fair and accurate in description, the reviewer has some grounds for \interpretation\-- interpretation of what was seemingly i11tended and how well it was ac~omplished, supported by \data\ from the performance itself, e.g .. , technical ability, emotional range; pacing, etc. Then the reviewer may share some ,of her personal biases, responses, connections to experiences outside the actual performance being reviewed. At least this mix of description, ill:terpretation and \extension\ makes sense to me, not done b:y ·rote,. but all at least i[lcluded, however the writer blends the ingredients. Julie Medow's \review\ was seven parts description, six parts interpretation, sixty-one parts \extension\-- significantly overloaded in my GJ)inion. Hers was a \review\ of \her process\ not the \performance\. Her process had lats of vitality, was fascinating to learn about, showed she had been affected. But as a review it was skewed. I found the \performance\ fascinating: the lighting of candles, the four foci on the circle, the changing of shawls, the presence of a mask, medicine shield, tambourine, and hooded · robe, the groundedness of Judith Barr's lllovements as she moved within the circle, at times focusing on each individual present, the fulsomeness of her emotions, the range of topics ... Clearly what was evoked for Julie Medow and myself was vastly different. That's understandable. I just wish she'd shared with those not present more \description\ of the perforamnce. Judith Barr shared a great deal of who she is as a person, poet, perfonner- - honed over years of clearly authentic journeying, carefully selected and crafted for performing. What she actually performed for us is as important as one \reviewer's\ spontaneous associations. Since \reveiwing\ is a pervasive endeavor ihroughout our society, I encourage the editors of Concord·iensis to sponsor a gathering of on-and- off campus performers, directors, set lighting, costume, and sound designers, stage managers, producers, area \reviewers\, Concordiensis staff, students, and faculty to cxpolor~ together the richness and requisites of bringing the spc·ctrum of a performance into the art of reviewing. I'd love to come. Sincerely, Gail George St11:dent Reacts Negatively to \Students React Negatively to Academic Calendar\ To th~ Editor: I would like to thank Karen Hurwitz for .showing that professional journillistic ability that all Union students have come to expect from Concordiensis in her recent article, \Students React Negatively to Academic Calendar:\ I guess it would have been an unreasonable request to ask Karen to contact me before she wrote this article so she could obtain the facts about the student survey, seeing as how I was the person who wrote, collected. and tabulated the results of the survey. So that the record can be set straight, the final results of the survey were 639. students against the proposed calendar, and 19 students in favor. That makes the percentage of respondents opposed to the calendar to be approximately 97%. In addition to this point, I question Karen's assertion that S®G __ _ \the 1990-1991 calendar will g..o unchanged ... because much of the .school year has already been planned, including all of the sporting events.\ This is just false. The athletic .s<Jhedules are made to a:~commodate other schools, and are not catered to Union's screwy calendar. One Dean that I llave spoken to told me that it will cost Union at least an a:dditional $30,000 to feed fall a:thletic teams from the time tlley arrive (approximately August 19) untii the students' meal plans begin. NCAA rules state that teams must practice fc:Jr at least three weeks prior to their first game, coupled with the nearly two weeks between ,the first game and the beginning of the meal plans, makes for between four and five weeks that Union College will have to feed these athletes free. of charge. Maybe r am failing to see tile macro picture, but there is riO apparent reason why the Administration should ignore the desires of a large number of the students and willingly spend such a large amount of money when it is completely avoidable. I understand that the needs of the professors should be addressed, hut the proposed calendar is too costly to Administration, and unpopular with the students to implement. I simply call on the Administration to return the academic calendar to the 1989-90 format until such time as a truly reasonable calendar can be created. It would be extremely unfortunate if th c Administration simply ignored the wishes of its students, for the administration would have ignored student activism. Union students have shown that they are not apathetic, but apathy could soon return when the students realize that nobody is listening to them. David Shepard '91 b ZC C&£35 ~ SJCQYE6&2!!2327 SUNDAY,. FEB. 18th at 1:00 P.M. Professo,r Gary Spencer ].A.P. from Syracuse University Baiting: Ethnic Slur ·Harmless Fun? Co-sponsored by J,S.U. & Residential Life at CC Aud. of

CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 19Jo Page 15 Silence Not Golden To the Editor: Th.ere is no need for women to keep silence ab(!)ut what is important to us. For ll1any past centuries women bave been excluded fFom public: discourse; our concerns and lives have hung, suspended, in a vacuum of imposed silence. Tooay if we find tlle words to express what happells to us and in us, there is really no reason bo fear supression and no reason to go back to silence. So i.f Judith Ban names menstruatioa sacred. the:re may Failure- To the Editor: As we inter Soviet Commllnism, let us n()t lapse into an \Well it was a good theory\ eulogy. We must judge a theory's \goodness\ with respect to its feasibiUty. In order to be feasible a social tlteory must accommodate economic, political, and social realities including peoples' rights. Comml!nism fails to adruess any of these factors. Communist economic and even be cause to celebrate. If some of us discuss child sexual . abuse openly as the trauma that • it is, there is camaraderie . amongst its victims. 1f women . on campus explore anorexia . and bulimia .in dialogue, there . · is healing. The times have changed, and · they continue to change as · · women's voices-- our true · voices-- add what we have · known and what we love to the public discourse. Linda E. Patrik Philosophy Department . R.I.P. politial meories do not work ... unless Lelil1ns and Stalins, etc. m a k e them function by investing in human misery and denying freedoms that we consider \inalienable.\ A social theory can't be considered \good\ if it lacks a realistic, humanitarian method for realizing its goals. We should temember Soviet Communism as a failed throry- - not a good one. Dan Waible '91 Congratulations to the New Editors-in-Chief of Co nco rdi ens is: Elise Foody and Andrew Seewald will start Spring Term 1990 AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL meetings 8:30 p.m. Wednesdays CC203 You've gotta fight for h:uman .rights!! Som~thing new under the sun .. . Unio1z 's Own COFFEE HOUSE Good Coffee (Politically correct even) HOMEMADE BREADS and MUSIC A sort of sophisticated Skellar - stop in for a while and Reclaim Your College Center! 7:30-10:30 p.m. - Fridays CC302 starting Friday 2/16 Critic Criticized To th.e Editor: Last week you published \Can Women Really Find Themselves Through MenstrMatioR? The Sacred Period: A Menstrual Jurney.\ A Review by Julie Medow. I appreciate the complexity of \A Review\ of a performance. I was a dance \reviewer\ for 20 years. There is ~he time, place, perhaps the number attending, who is sponsoring or underwriting it, even information from the program notes. Then there is the performance itself, with its subject mauer, actual manner of presentat~on, lighting, costuming, props used, sounds or music, etc. Clearly documentable audience response is appropriate here, e.g.,they sat in silence, 1-2 minutes of applause, 2 standing ovations. This is discriptive: what actually took ;Jlace, written for those who did not attend, as well as a reminder for those who did. It is a \review\ of the \performance\. After being intentionally fair and accurate in description, the reviewer has some grounds for \interpretation\-- interpretation of what was seemingly intended and how well it was accomplished, supported by \data\ from the performance itself, e.g., technical ability, emotional range, pacing, etc. Thefl the reviewer may share some of her persolilal biases, responses, connections to experiences outside the actual performar1ce being reviewed. At least this mix of description, interpretation and \extension\ makes sense to me, not done by rote, but all at least included, however the writer blends the ingredients. Julie Medow's \review\ was seven parts description, six parts interpretation, sixty-one parts \extension\-- significantly overloaded in my opinion. Hers was a \review\ of \her process\ not the \performance\. Her process had lots of vitality, was fascinating to learn about, showed she had been affected. But as a review it was skewed. I found the \performance\ fascinating: the lighting of candles, the four foci on the circle, the changing of shawls, the presence of a mask, medicine shield, tambourine, and hooded robe, the groundedness of Judith Barr's movements as she moved within the circle, at times LETTERS focusing on each individual present, the fulsomeness of her emotions, the range of topics ... Clearly what was evoked for Julie Mcdow and myself was vastly different. That's understandable. I just wish she'd shared with those not present more \description\ of the pcrforamnce. Judith Barr shared a great deal of who she is as a person, poet, perform.cr- - honed over years of clearly authentic journeying, carefully selected and crafted for performing. What she actually performed for us is as important as one \reviewer's\ spontaneous associations. Since \reveiwing\ is a pervasive endeavor throughout our society, I encourage the editors of Concordiensis to sponsor a gathering of on-<tnd- off campus performers, directors, set 1i g hti ng, costume, and sound designers, stage managers, producers, area \reviewers\, Concordi~nsis staff, students, and L\C ulty to cxpolore togctlh.'r the ridmcss and requisites or bringing tl1l' spcclrUIIl or a Pl'rlormanrc into th~ art of r~.·vi.._'wing. I'd lmL' tu come. Sincerely, Gail George Student Reacts Negatively to \Students React Negatively to Academic Calendar\ To the Editor: .. I would like to thank Karen Hurwitz for showing that pmfessional journalistic ability that all Union students have come to expect from Concordiensis in her recent article, \Students React Negatively to Academic Calendar.\ I guess it would have been an unreasonable request to ask Karen to contact me before she wrote this article so she could obtain the facts a bout the student survey, seeing as how I was the person wbo wrote, collected, and tabulated the results of the survey. So that the record can be set straight, the final results of the survey were 639 students against the proposed calendar, and 19 students in favor. That makes the percentage of respondents opposed to the calendar to be approximately 97%. [n addition to this point, I question Karen's assertion that a \the 1990-1991 calendar will go unchanged ... because much of the school year has already been planned, including all of the sporting events.\ This is just false. The athletic schedules are made to accommodate other schools, and are not catered to Union's screwy calendar. One Dean that I have spoken to told me that it will cost Union at least an additional $30,000 to feed fall athletic teams from the time they arrive (approximately August 19) until the students' meal plans begin. NCAA rules state that teams must practice for at least three weeks prior to their first game, coupled with the nearly two weeks between the first game and the beginning of the meal plans, makes for between four and five weeks that Union College will have to feed these athl.ctcs free of charge. Maybe I am failing to sec the macro picture, but there is no apparent reason why the Admmistration should ignore a ;e; the desires of a large number of the students and willingly spend such a large amount of money when it is completely avoidable. I understand that the needs ol the professors should be addressed, but the proposed calendar is too costly to Administration, and unpoptliar with the students to implement. I simply call on the Administration to return the academic calendar to the 1989-90 format until such time as a truly reasonable calendar can be created. It would be extremely unfortunate if the Administration simply ignored the wishes of its students, for the administration would ~ave ignored student activism. Union students have shown that they arc not apathetic, but apathy could soon return when the students realize that nobody is listening to them. David Shepard '91 u • 0 • SUNDAY, FEB. 18th at 1:00 P.M. Professor Gary Spencer from Syracuse University ].A.P. Baiting: Ethnic Slur of Harmless Fun? Co-sponsored by J.S.U. & Residential Life at CC Aud. -

Page 16 CONCORDIENSJS, February 8, 1990 LETTERS Take a Stand For Union's Future To the Class .of 1990: While on campus last Saturday for a meeting of the Annu~ Fund Executive Committee, I was privileged to receive one of the T -shirts being given to classmates who contribute $10 or more to your Senior Class Gift Drive. I was equally privileged to contribute $10 to your drive for I know that in supporting your efforts, I also support Union. Perhaps this will qualify me for at least honorary status as a member of the Class of 1990? As your T -shirt aptly suggests, \reality\ is racing toward you at ever-increasing speed. One aspect of that reality is that you will soon be alumni of Union College, with all the pride and respect attendant thereto. As alumni, you will be asked often to support and further the work of the Coltege. Though there are many ways to contribute, the most visible, obvious, and insistent is financiaL Money. Yours. No matter how scarce and precious yours will be, you can count on Union (in other words, other alumni, some of them dassmates) to ask you to share a little of it to keep your alma mater strong. If you will permit me, I'd like to share with you a few of the reasons I give some of my money to Union. I. I am asked to. Respectfully. And with a good explanation for why such giving is important. 2. Gratitude. My family had very little to contribute to my post-high school education. Without substantial financial aid, Union would have been out of the question. I owe Union ... BIGTIME ... for the financial help and the personal opportl)nity it provided. 3. Resp<>nsibility. Only 70% of the <:ost of a Union education is covered by tuition, room, and board. Even students who receive no financial aid are subsidized for 30% of the true cost. Th()se funds come from endow~nent income (12.8%), the Annual Fund (6.4%), and external sources (10.8%). In other words, 19.2% ofthe cost comes from funds created by graduates., ancient and recent, who have gh•en back from their sometimes scarce and precious resources. I owe it to those who went before to pass it on ... the money as well as the tra-dition ... to the next genemtions. 4. Commitment to excellence. Union is one of several superb small, independent institutions delivering a quality educational product that this country sorely needs to face the challenges that lie ahead. As I see it, by supporting Union, I am investing in this country's. future, a future my kids and grandkids will inherit. 5. To have a voice in Union's future. All of us at one time or another have had thoughts on how thiongs might be done better. By contributing to Union, I feel I earn tke right and the opportun.ity to be heard if I have a useful idea. Giving to the Annual Fund is not the only way to contribute, but it is a very important one. 6. It makes me feel good. No matter bow hard it may be to write the check, I always have a very nice feeling afterwards. There is something about giving, about doing something for som~one else, that makes me feel a. little bigger and just a little special. In those moments, I discover that instead of scarcity, I had plenty, and the feeling of , sacrifice is replaced by a great sense of well-being. You know what I mean... · 7. I am the College. Students and alumni ate often guilty of referring to \the College\ as if it were some . distant place or group of people not connected to us. Usually we mean the Administration. It is a dangerous illusion, that way of thinking. For the\ Adm instration is transitory ... Presidents and staff .come and go. Alway.s remaining is \the alumni\ .•. you and me. If we want Union to remain healthy and strong, if we want our degrees to continue to reflect well on us in the future, it is up to us. We arl' the College and we need to stay involved. As the reality of graduation comes rushing toward you, you will find increasing opportunity to reflect on your Union experience. For some, jt will have been wildly wonderful, for others perhaps a mixed bag. However it has been for you, though, hopefully you will find in this letter something of meaning that will prompt_ you to want to support Union as an alumnus. If so, and if you haven't already joined in the Senior Class Gift Drive, now is the time to begin. This is the perfect time to take your stand for Union's future. If you make a gift, as an act .of generosity and sharing and not as a sacrifice, you will feel good. Very good. I promise. Respectfully, Tom Hitchcock, '66 National Chairman, Union College Annual Fund The Union College Heritage Society js having a meeting on Monday, Feb. 12th at 9:00 p.m. in the College Center Room 409 All are welcome to attend According.to Dr. Spock, breathing can be hazardous to your children's health. Air pollution is all around us and it hurts children mosl. Kid:; inhale more pollutants per pound tlu111 ndulls, and their length of exposure is longer, which incr~ases their risk of permanent damage. Additionally, children _ .• r~ under 10 have an increased rate ofrcspimtory :'2 infections. When infections are coupled with irritating air pollutants the damage to younglungs is intensified. So do what Dr. Spack recommends. Call or write the Public Information Office of the Sierra Club and find out what you can do to help clear the air. Public Information 730 Polk Street San Francisco, California 94109 415/776-2211 -·-~--------------~------ OFFICE OF RESIDENCE LIFE 199:0·91. COMMON TH.EME H-OUSING Interested in a new. w.ay of liVing_? The Offipe Of Residence Life Invites students to propose new residential grol!ps combining living and learning ln Common-Theme Co• Ed Housinq for 1990-91. Proposals must demonstrate an integral connection to the aca.<Jemic program of the College and show how the group's li·ving together will promote the personal, social·, and especially intellectual growth of its members and the College community, A prima:ry .goal of each group will be to promote student- faculty interaction outside the classroom and to enhance the intellectual life of the campus. A typical group will. be fairly representative of all class years. Mo·re complete details are available at 1he Office of Residence Life, Room 405, College Center. Come to the CHUC roam and take advantage of a cornucopia of computer possibHites. Vlhether you are writing a thesis,. composing a resume) or just putting the final touches on . · a paper 1 CHUC is the place for you. · CHUC is located in th~ basement of the Humanities building a

CONCORJ)IENSJS, February 8, -1990 Page 17 FRESHMAN REPRESENIATIV·E RUN OFF ELECTIONS ' ' ' ' . . JA~SMOORE James Moore KAREN HUJ;tWlTZ Members of the Class of 1993; My name is. Karen Hurwitz and I 1:1m running for freshman cblss representative. In last week's election for freshman representative none of the candidates won the 30% of the votes necessary to be elected. Therefore, in the final elections on Friday, February 9 ., the top three of the n maining five candidates will v. in office. I am honored to be one-ofthe five candidates in the • run-off, and I hope that I will have yc,ur support again this· . Friday. Much to my sutprise, the · Concordieusi.s mis- \ interpreted my story and. printed I that I was raised by wild spenn. i whales. To set the record l straight I was raised by grey ~ humpback whales which look similar but don't have teeth 1 . like the sperm whale. They · have that brine filtration thing. In any event, my upbringing should not bring prejudice against me. On the contrary, as I said before, it is merely a facet of myself that enables me to better serve the class of 1993. I hope the levity of my statement does not convey the image of a person who won't take the position of Representative seriously. This is the furthest thing from the truth, I will approach the tasks at hand with the same determiantion of a spawning trout swimming upstream. Although the responsibilities faced will be difficult, my dedication, Hke that of a preying mantis trying to jump on the back of its mate without being devoured. will persevere. My only hope is that you, the Class of 1993, will also persevere, an<l allow me to prove my dedication to our class. · It seems like yesterday . that we were screaming our birthdays together as a Class on West Beach at the Playfair during orientation, or singing - the Alma Mater on President Morris' front lawn. Almost 15 weeks hav:e passed already, and we have adjusted to life here at Union. We have all gop.e our own ways in one respect also. becoming involved in different sports, clubs, fraternities, and . sororities, Because our graduating class at Union is · small, the unity that existed during orientation can continue for the next four years. I would . like to see our class grow closer together in our years 1990 SCHOLARSHIPS AND AWARDS THE MISSION:· The Planetary Society was· formed to focus the energies end resources of people everywhere who want the age of planetary exploration to contim.Jet•· Founded in 1.Sso· by'Carl Sagan, E!ruce MIJrray and Louis Friedman, the Socio;oty is now the largest space interest group in the world with more than 1\25 members hi over so· countries. Society ml;!mbers are dedicated to the explor;~tiori of the solar system, the search ·for other solar' systems a~d the ·quest for- extraterrestrial life, and one of our ongoing objectives is to involve studehts in e dee!ler und.erstar=ding of the resultS of planetary exploration. SCHOLARSHIPS: The Planr.tary Society actively em;ou~ages s~ience students through a variety of programs. The Mars lnsti~ute Ccmtest Is open til· students in both high school ahd\ college, and college undergraduates are eligible for the College.:F~i!llowship Awards. • DEADLINE: April 16, 1:990 is the deadline f~r completed applications to be t·eaeived for both the Mars Institute Contest and College Fellowship Awards. A panel of scientists and representatives from The Planetary Society Will select the winnl!rs by June 1., 1990. · ENTRY DETAILS: Fo,. entry details,. complete anc.l ,return. the attached coupon ol'·write to: !he Planetary Society, Scholarship Department, 65 North Catalina Avenue, :Pasadena, CA 91106. · =~============~==========================~===========~========~==== THE-PLP.NETAAV SOCIETY COLLEGE.SCIIOLAFiSHIF> INFORMATION COUPON Pieasesencl mo more tnloimatlon-on: -·. -.(;allege Fellowships __ -Mars lnstiiOte -. _Tho Planetary Sac\ely (Includes a membership appllcaltoh) Dale,~.~~~-~-.,_.... ~~·~--~~---------~~------~- Address. __________ -'-'-~----~---~ Clty~-------\......:State __ Zip·~-----·· Counlfy·~· ___ _ here at Ui1ion. 1 will do everything I can to I was active in stadent insure that we as freshman government in high school, have a voice in important twice president of my class, issues. Some important issues and president of the Student would incLude the new Social' Council in my senior year. ·' Policy., the Fall Academic Likewise, I would really like to- Calendar, and of course become involved w.itlt the Freshmen being able to use Student Forum here at Union. their meal cards in the I will be dedicated to the Rathskeller. respnsibilities of student It is unfortunate t·hat the representative. I lo13k forward freshman class will n.ot get the to getting to know yott, the opportunity to experience members of the Class of 1993, . Camp Union. l would be and your thoughts about life interested in working with the here at Union. I am also administration to explore interested in bearing about creative alternatives to Camp those issues that you feel are Union. important facing the student Once again, come out on body, such as our social February 9th and vote because alcohol policy, and nile changes your vote will make a in our academic calendar. I will · difference. also ke~p you notified about the Studi:mt Forum and its activities. It would be a great honor for me to represent the Class of 1993 in 1:b.e Student Forum and I am anxious to begin working for and with our class. I would appreciate yoru vote for Karen Hurwitz on Friday. February 9. EVAN LEGROS Evan Legros I am pleased to have made it this far in the election. I would like to thank all of .those who supported me in last week's election~ but it is not over yet. CHRISTOPHER SEARS As a representative of Student Forum, I think the first and most important goal is to insure that the students have more of a voice about what goes on. Once that is established, other subjects may be addressed. Until we have our foothold though, our opinions will not carry much weight. There have been some decisions that I feel were made without enough student input. I want to insure that such issues as: the social policy, sexual aware11ess, and the school calendru are re-assessed · · with a stronger student opinion playing a role. I believe that my feelings 011 many issues are representative ()fthe students as a whole. If r am elected to office, I will try to make sure OUf voice docs 11ot go unheeded any longer.. NElL KANTER MAN First, I wouLd like LO thank everyone who supported my candidacy in the first run of voting. With your help. I am one step cl()ser to becoming President of the Class of 1993. However, I need the help of everybody if I .am going to represent the freshman class in the Student Forum. The President of any student government has the difficult task of deciding the wants of the student bo<ly. I feel that the best way to do this is to have all of lhe officers accessible to the students at all times. This cuts down on \red tape\ and helps actually get things done . When you go to the polls tomorrow, ju:sl keep in mind that I will give my full effort to making your years here at Union College. the best they can be. * CROSSTALK PRESENTS A VALENTINE'S DAY SPECIAL VOTE for your Freshman . Representatives on Friday, Feb. '9th outside West From 11:30-2 VOTE * SEX: WHO'S IN CHARGE? *Who initiates a relationship? *Whois responsible? *Do men and women answer these questions differently? TllESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 1990 8:00 PM, UPPER CLASS DINING HALL *REFRESHMENTS *BRING A DATE

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 . I, . ARTS & ENT'ERTAIN~ENT The. K- Man Band Rocks The College Center By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts E:ditor It had been a long day. Tilne was just ticking .away on my watch as I sat on the third floor of the College Center reading Moby Dick. Suddenly. however, my stream of consciousness was interrupted by a rhythmic twang from downstairs. I couldn't imagine who it could be, but then ,[ remembered the simple black and white flyer announcing \Tony Richards and The K- Man Band\. My mind ran amuck ... should I sit here continuously reading the same line over and over aga.in, or should I pack up my things and check out the band I have heen long remiss to sec? I was out of there in a flash. Downstairs I felt the rush of a gig setting up. As I walked · into · the Cabaret arena. my heart began to beat to the rhythm of the drums; and as I listened to the warped voice of the guy doing sound checks. I grabbed the nearest \non- wobbly\ table within g.ood sights of t!J.e band. Within minutes the lights dimmed and seven musicians stood holding their instruments: teno~; sa:x. keyboards,. trombone, drums, and three on guitar; and at 8:00 PM the show began. Tony Ric.hards, the lead sin,ger. spoke ·Of the band's past visits to Union's campus and of their feelings of loyalty to us on .this, the kick off night of their three week tour. In fact, the K-man band just recorded a live nlbum entitled, \Live Sweat'\ and they will be touring down south with The Georgia Satellites, The RadiatOrs, and Todd Rundgren. . The band's sound combines rock n:'roll with hints of jazz. In fact, at times it reminded me of Bruce Springsteen's oldies and even ·· Elvis Costello. Everything they played in the first hour was from their original .repertoire, and in a word I would have to say they were hot! They worked well together, they Wel'e energetic, and enjoyable to watch. The .KMMan Band bas been strumming for some time now · and over the past several yeats they have built np quite a large following in New Milford, Connecticut. It was great to see the band in full harmony as they kicked off their tour, but as a note of commentary ,on behalf of the band, I only wish more publicity had been done - for this band's sound definitely warranted a larger showing. Petty Show.· Short But Sweet By TOM ANDRUCHOW Albany, N.Y. · Last week the Knickerbocker Arena officially opened and on Saturday night it was rocked by Mr. Tom Pcuy and the Heartbreakers, (Petty was given a proclamation from the mayor of Albany for being the first rock artist to play the new facility). The show featured most of Tom's highly acclaimed solo album \Full Moon :Fever'· along with some classics. Despite the btevity of set, 105 minutes, the perfonnancc was stellar, from the opening of \Mind with a Heart of it's Own\ to the finale of\ Arncric<UJ Girl\ A very mellow acoustic set was featured which mixed new hits with vintage ones liJ;ce \Listen to her Heart\ from the band's 1918 release. An excellent job was turned in by the band, notably Benmont Tench and Mike Campbell for their solos on keyboards, piano, and lead guitar respectively, Grcenpeacc is also .traveling with the band and Petty urged the crowd to stop at tables, set up near the exits, to pick up pamphlets and increase general. awareness about the organization. Union College Plans 'Off The Beaten Track' Concert Series Schenectady, N.Y. (Feb. 5) - Union College will take concert-goers in unusual musical directions with a series of three Friday performances titled \Off the Beaten Track,\ starting Feb. 16. All concerts will be at 7:30 p.m. in the· Performing Arts Studio of the Arts Building. The series will begin with \East-West Flutes,\ a performance of the traditional and contemporary music of China, Japan and the West, including two works written by Hilary Tann, associate professor of music at Union .. Tann, a native of Wales, is facile at blending Japanese and western music. Presenting the program will be Jill Panitch, flute; Chen Xiao-Bing, an exchange scholar at Union, Chinese bamboo flute (the \ditze\).; Jeffrey Lependorf, Japanese bamboo flute (the \shakuhachi\); and Peter Susser, cello. In the second concert, on Feb. 23, Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of music and chairman of the Union Arts Department, will play the courtly music of 17th- and 18ili- century France on the harpsichord. He will be accompanied by George C. Green, violin, and Justin Kagan, cello. In the third concert, on March 2, four jazz players NIGHT OF THE LIVING DEAD presented by De:lta Psi Delta Film and Committee CC Auditorium 8:00 and 10:30 FREE! BE THERE! FREE! with extensive performance knowledge of non-Western musical traditions will blend jazz and world music. Tom Ross, · assistant professor of music at Union, will lead the group ·and wiH perform on the jazz guitar; the South Indian \vina a lute; .and the \mbira the so-called \thumb piano\ from Zimbabwe, Africa. Joining him will be Tim Moran, reeds and percussion; Jeff Fuller. bass; and Ray Kaczynski, drums. The free concerts will be sponsored by the Arts Department. .· ·': .- .. a~~:~o:so , ;p.m. PLEASE A TTENDI .. Pizza & Wlngs .. ·-.-:: -;-. .. ;· .. .. .. ~ ..... :

Page 18 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT . . . . ... . .... ·. . ... · . lo.v;~to .. · x .. ·lt>J .• ~ .. , aut. t~.,l::l¥!1lotllit··t.tl1&Y{•attli;·~~k>··l timid w let that side show. For VaJ .• enJtne·~~ whettter it be with~so~n¢ .with wllPiP3•'Y&..ll+@l~:lin¥Jilll¥eU<,Pf:ii just that secret crush. If the latter is the case, take a r:iskl! It will pay off. LEO: You will soon make a large step with regard to that person you've had your eye on for a while now. They may be afraid to take chances so make yourself irresistible. VIRGO; Due to the insecure nature of Virgos, they tend to he overly giving and forgiving. With Valentine's Day coming up., be careful not to give your heart away. LIBRA: Your sexual prowess is something that you seem to pride yourself upon. Many people would like to find out if there is truth in this. Choose carefully a Valentine tllat deserves the lhri ll. SCORPIO: The hatd work you've been doing will pay off this week. If you have been finding yourself feeling insecure lately with regard to a loved one, you are only wasting a lot of energy. This week do something spontaneous! SAGITTARIUS:Th.is week put everything in your life into perspective. If one area of your life is getting you down concentrate on perfecting_ another arw.. CAPRICORN: Everyone has that certain someone have the hots fO'r. This week go fur itf! !Ht:y. ifit dqesp't out at least yot1 1 U know it was not1J1e~nt tO b~:·M:?.Ke yo:tt at least gel :~tte. g;uod: nigltt.ftom.Jt, · The 1-Man Band Ro·cks The COllege Center By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Editor It had been a long day. Time was just ticking away on my watch as I sat on the third floor of the College Center reading Moby Dkk. Suddenly, however, my stream of consciousness was iFlterruptcd by a rhythmic twang from downsLairs. I couldn't imagine who it col!lld be, but theu I rem em bcred the simple black and while flyer announcing \Tony Richards and The K- Man Band\. My mind ran amuck ... should I sit here continuously reading the same line over and over again, or should I pack up my things and check out the hand I have hecn long remiss to sec'? I was out of thcrl.! in a nash. Downst~lirs l fdt the rush of a gig setting up. As I walked into the Cabaret arena, my heart began to beat to the rhythm. or the dnnns; and as I listened to the warped voice of the guy doing sound checks, I grabbl!d the nearest \non- wobbly\ table within good sights of the band. Within mim1~cs the lights dimmed and seven musicians stood holding their instruments: tenor sax, keyboards, trombone, drums, and three on guitar; and at 8:00 PM th~ show began. Ton:y Richards, the lead singer, spoke of the band's past visits t(> Union's campus and of their feelings of loyalty to us on this, the kick off night of their three week tour. In fact, the K-m::m band just recorded a live album entitled, \Live Sweat\ and they will be touring down south with The Georgia S:nellites, The Radiators, and Todd Rundgren. The band's sound combines rock n'roll with hints of jazz. In fact, at times it reminded me of Bruce Springsteen's oldies an.d even Elvis Costello. Everything they played in the first hour was from their original repertoire, and in a word I would have to say they were hot! They worked well together, they were energetic, an.d enjoyable to watch. The K-Man Band has been strumming for some time now aRd over the past several years they have built up quite a large following in New Milford, Connecticut. It was great to see the band in full harmony as they kicked off their tour, but as a note of commentary on behalf of the band, I only wish more publicity had been done- for th.is band's sound definitely warranted a larger showing. Petty Show: Short But Sweet By TOM ANDRUCHOW Albany, N.Y. - Last week the Knickerbocker Arena officially opened and on Saturday night it was rocked by Mr. Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers, (Petty was given a proclamation from t11e mayor of Albany for being the first rock artist to play the new facility). The show featured most of Tom's highly acclaimed solo album \Full Moon Fever\ along with some classics. Despite the brevity .of set, 105 minutes, the performance was stellar, from the op-ening of \Mind with a Heart or it's Own\ to the finale of \American Girl\. A very mellow acoustic set was featured which mixed new hits with vintage ones like \Listen to her Heart\ from the band's 1978 release. An excellent job was turned in by the band, notably Bcnmont Tench and Mike Campbell for their solos on keyboards, piano, and lead guitar respectively. Greenpeace is also traveling with the band and Petty urged the crowd to stop at tables, set up ncar the exits, to pick up pamphlets and increase general awareness about the organization. Union College Plans 'Off The Beaten Track' Concert Series 0 R Schenectady, N. Y. (Feb. 5) - Union College will take concert-goers in unusual musical directions with a series of tluee Friday performances titled \Off the Beaten Track,\ starting Feb. 16. All concerts will be at 7:30 p.m. in the Performing Arts .Studio ot the Ans Budding. The series will begin with \East-West Flutes,\ a pcrform<Jncc of the tradhional and contemporary music of Chin<J, Japan and the West, inclucling two works written by Hilary Tann, associate profc ssor of music at Union. Tann, a native of Wales, is faci lc at blending J apancsc and western music. Presenting the program will be Jill Panitch, flute; Chen Xiao-Bing, an exchange scholar at Union, Chinese bamboo flute (the \ditze\); Jeffrey Lependorf, J apanesc bamboo flute (the \shakuhachi\); aRd Peter Susser, cello. In the second concert, on Feb. 23, Hugh Allen Wilson, professor of mus1c and chairman of the Union Arts Department, will play the courtly music of 17th- and 18th- century France on the harpsichord. He will be accompanied by George C. Green, violin, and Justin Kagan, cello. In the third concert, on March 2, four jazz players NIGHT OF THE LIV;ING DEAD presented by Delta Psi Delta and Film Committee CC Auditorium 8:00 and 10:30 FREE! BE THERE! FREE! with extensive performance knowledge of non-Western musical traditions will blend jazz and world music. Tom Ross, assistant professor of music at Union, will lead the group and will perform on the jazz guitar; the South Indian \vina a lute; and the 'mbua,\ the so-called \thumb piano\ from Zimbabwe, Africa. Joining him will be Tim Moran, reeds and percussion; Jeff F11ller, bass; and Ray Kaczynski, drums. The free concerts will be sponsored by the Arts Department. 0 N A L M E T Th .• ··u·· ··r·~•4•,y·····:. · . . . I.• ea . ., .. ;.· CC At,r,ium·.· · · · • · vU·a .· ., . , :· ·· . ,.,. . .. ~· .......... , ·: , ... . . ·· 9·10:30 p.m. PLEASE ATTEND! Pizza , & Wings A ME A R M A E N 0 l N C E • 0 F

' CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 19 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ''Flashback'': Wait for The- Video- By KIM CAREY Associate Arts Editor \Flashback\ begins when J olm Buckman, an uptight, vitamin-popping, yuppie FBI agent played: by Keifer ~ Suthe.rland, must escort a recently captured fugitive on a train ride and then to a jail in Washington State. Dennis Hopper plays Huey Walker, the aging radical protester from the 1960s, who is jailed after 20 years on the run for supposedly tampering with a train that a conservative politician was riding in. This character seems to parallel that of the late Abbie Hoffman. Unfortunately, \Flashback\ didn't grab my attention until , midway through the movie. In fact, the only thing that kept me awake during the slow first :half-hour was great rnusic by Canned Heat and the R<>tling Stones, and later, Steppe11wolf and many other classic rock groups. However, the movie caught my attention ().flCe Buckman and Walker were on the nm from· gun wielding local .police. \Flashback\ was at its best when it explored the historical youth of Buckman who was raised on a hippie commune. However, he changes his ways and angrily rejects this liberal lifes;tyle. When Buckman returns to his semi-aoandone.d hippie commune he has to confront the person he once was and Sutherland does some great acting here. \Flashback\ gives the viewer a real feel for the sixties by exploring the history of this commune. Sutherland and Hopper play well offeach other. If you can make it through the first half hollf and some of the trite and unbelievable police hoopla, yoa may find \Flashback\ to be a very unpredictable and interes<ting movie. lt is particularly interesting if you 1ike the \peace love and protest\ time during the 1960s. \Flashback is worth watching-- once it released on vid:eo. However, it was not worth the $6 for a theatre ticket. r _.--- ... --- ~~~cnp-N-Save- .... ------ -. I I I I I I I I· I I I I I I I I I I I I 89.7 fm STEREO .. 11 THE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ It's New! It's Old! .It's a great mix of the fresh and I established this week; The Smithereens and The Farmers, I Michael Penn and Otis Ball, and They Might Be Giants on a I new labeL Good Night. Thank you. 1 Artist I . Si nead O'Connor 12\ 2. The Farmers 3. The Creatures 4. They Might Be Giants 5. The Windbreakers 6. John Wesley Harding 7. The Smithereens 8, Michael Penn 8.97 Otis Ball ' Title -~''Just Like U Said It Would B\ Flames of love Boomerang· Flood· Here Comes The Groom 11- March I'm Gonna love You ... Eyebrow Raiser - \Insubstantial\ - The Pale Saints . Label I Chrysalis ·I Pravda 1 Geffen Elektra I DB Recs. I Sire I Enigma RCA I Bar None 1 I I J--- ------ ·---- ... -----.---- USE YOUR TALENT and HELP YOUR COMMUNITY sign up now to perform in the P ANHELLENIC CABARET THURSDAY, FEBRUARY the 15th at 9 pm in the Old Chapel Admission fee: $2.00 *Refreshments will be served ... for more information please contact: Leslie Ross- 393-7413, {)r box #1859. PIWCEEDS DONATED TO THE SCHENECTADY RAPE CRISIS CENTER sign up deadline: FRIDAY. FEBRUARY 9th Make a difference by helping others ' -sponsered by the Panhe11enic Council WWF Loose Cannon Tremors Tango and Cash Stella The Little Mermaid Stanley and Iris Heart Condition Internal Affairs Gloiy Flashback War of the Roses Bon1 on the 4th of July Driving Miss Daisy Hard to Kill Call Theaters for Show Times. IMAGINE: JOHN LENNON Monday, Feb. 12 CC Au d. - 8 & 1 0 pm Admission: $1.00 Sponsored by the Fifm Committee SAVE THE WILDLIFE ~ .. Caffe Lena - Saturday, February 17 WORLD 'WILDLIFE FEDERATION \Schooner Fare,n a Portland, Maine trio with a nautical theme wilJ perform Yankee folk music at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. Cover charge is ¢'1'1'); ~ .t...

~ ·) ' . ,· CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 19 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ''Flashb;ack'': Wait for The Video By KIM CAREY Assodate Arts Editor \Flashback\ begins when John 13 uckman, an uptight, vitamin-.popping, yuppie FBI agent played by Keifer Suthedand, must escort a recently captured fugitive on a train ride and then to a jail in Washington State. Dennis Hopper plays Huey Walker, the agin.g radical protester from the 1960s, VI ho is jailed after 20 years on the run for supposedly tampering with a train that a conservative politician was riding in. This character seems to paraUel that of tlte late Abbie Hoffman. Unfor1unately, \Flashback\ didn't grab my attention until midway thnrugh the movie. In fact, the only thing that kept me awake dllling the slow first half~hour was g11eat music by Canned Heat and the Rolling Stones, and later, Steppenwolf and many 0ther classic rock groups. However, the movie caught my attention once Buckman and Walker were on the run from gun wielding local police. \Piashback\' was at its best when it explored tl:te historical ycmth of Buckman who was raised on a llippie commune. Hcwever, he changes his ways and angrily rejects this liberal lifestyle. When Buckman returns to his semi-a bandon ed hippie commune he has to confront the person lle once was and Sutherland does some great actiHg here. \Flashback\ gives the viewer a real feel for the sixties by exploring the history of this commwne. Sutherland and Hopper play well tOff each other. If you can make i.t through the first half hour and some of the trite and unbelievable police hoopla, you may find \Flasnback\ to be a very unpredictable and interesting movie. It is particularly interesting if you like the \peace love and protest\ time during the 1960s. \Flash back is worth watchiHg-- once it released on video. However, it was not worth the $6 for a theatre ticket. r-------- •Cii.p-N-Save---- -- ---, I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I WRUC 89.7 fm STEREO • •TttE FIRST STATION IN THE NATION\ It's New! It's Old! it's a great mix of the fresh and established this week; The Smithereens and The Farmers, Michael Penn and Otis Ball, and They Might Be Giants on a new label. Good Night. Thank you. Artist 1. Si nead O'Connor 12\ 2. The Farmers 3. The Creatures 4. They Might Be Giants 5. The Windbreakers 6. John Wesley Harding 7. The Smithereens 8. Michael Penn 8.97 Otis Ball Title \Just Like U Said It Would B\ Flames of Love Boomerang Flood Here Comes The Groom 1 1 March I'm Gonna Love You ... Eyebrow Raiser - \Insubstantial\ - The Pale Saints Label Chrysalis Pravda Geffen Elektra DB Recs. Sire Enigma RCA Bar None I ~-- ... ----------------- ..... (R!IIIt- Loose Cannon Tremors Tango and Cash Stella The Little Mennaid Stanley and Iris Hcatt Condition Intemal Affairs Glory Flashback War of the Roses Born on the 4th of July Driving Miss Daisy Hard to Kill Call Theaters for Show Times. . ON CAMPUS MOVIES rl'hisc;Weekend at 7, 9 & 11 IMAGINE: JOHN LENNON Monday, Feb. 12 CC Au d. - 8 & 10 pm Admission: $1.00 Sponsored by the Film Committee ~ CSE YOL\'R TALENT and HELP YOUR COMJ\11.JXITY sign up now to perform in the PANHELLENIC CABARET THlTRSDAY, FEBRUARY the 15th * Social Alternatives Capital District • In the * at 9 pm in the Old Chape.l Admission fee: $2.00 *Refreshments will be served ... for more information please contact: Leslie Ross- 393-7413, or box #1859. PROCSEDS DONATED TO THE SCHEi'<'ECTADY RAPS CRISIS CE~TER sign up deadline: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 9th Make a difference by helping others -sponsered by the Panllellenic Council WWF SAVE THE WilDLIFE WORLD WilDLIFE FEDER A liON : Schenectady Union College- February 16 Union will present some interesting variations of music in a series titled HOff The Beaten Track. 11 The series will run on three consecutive Fridays, beginning February 16. All concerts will be at 7:30 in the . Performing Arts Studio in the Arts Building. Saratoga i Caffe Lena -Friday, February 16 · lfNot Necessarily the Blues:· an Albany-based duo which plays acoustic blues accompanied by flute and guitar will perform at 8:30. Cover -:_ charge is $7. Caffe Lena - Saturday~ February 17 tiSchooner Fare,\ a Portlandt Maine trio with a nautical theme will perform Yankee folk music at 7:00 and 10:00 p.m. Cover charge is $12.

Page 20 CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 DELTA .PSI DELTA AND HICKOK DoRM present . Profess,or Staff Speaks: Professor Andrew Feffer will lead a discussion on: Are Students Barbarians? Tonight, Thursday, Feb. 8th at 8:00p.m. Hickok Lounge Fo~o!TE:v 1o PA.f .rOu..R.. SEtl1oiG The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the follow:ing colloquium: Nietzsche on the Birth of Tradgedy by Professor Dennis Sweet Bowdoin C9Jiege February 9, 1990 3:45 P.M. in Humanities 213 There wHI be a reception immediately following in the Humanities Lounge. All colloquia are open· to the public for furth&r information tel.ephone 518-370- 6376. Do You Warit ·VISA&. MasterCard· . ._ · Credit Cards? · ·. . STUDENT SERVICES P.O. BOX 224{)26 'HOLL YWOQD, FL 3:W22 I . · . I ' f-low Y.ou.r.af''h<J.,c lwo·oi'I!-Je rnasl re-cognu:ed·an a<:r.epiEtdcredrl \1i7'ES' I . ca.rds•n lhe world VISA~ and MastsrCarr:t\ credrtca,ds ::·rr..vour I I «» 1 want VISA•tMasterCar<:f8 1 na111e\ EVEN IF YOJ.J· ARE NEW IN CREDIT or ·HAVE B~~N 1 1 ·dt d EnctoaecJ lind $1500 which I& 1 TURNE.O.DOWN 8E,F0RE1 · -ere I car s. - . I· 1~ refundable rf not aporoved rmmEk:tlately_ I .,.., r.JJ , VISA~ ontl MastEtrCo~ 'lhs cr,dlt C?U~s I 1 \' \ (I~ •'- you deserve and _need-for * 1'0 •·f3:00KS ·1 - ,.1> 6o-r 0 ~'' * DEPARTMENT STOiiES • TlliTH?I'I . 1 NAME I 0 .\' <' 0 .,Q * ENTE\TAINMEN~ *EME~GEN..l:)Y C\'SH I .. ,<>' ,~ * TJC~ETS o1r RESTAURANTS I · ~o .r_,'' *HOTELS<. GAS*·CAA RENTALS I -- I ..- .. ~- j< REPAIRS* Al'lOTO!IUILD ADDRESS ·1. ..... o YOUR CREDIT RATING! I · ··oth · + -~----==---=-- I 1 I CITY STATE ZIP 1 Veer! 'OUARI\HTEEDI ' GOLD CAR.D .I~----: . VISA/MASTERC~RD 1 pHONE• j· GUARA~TEEDISSUE ~ 1 OR MONE·Y BACK 1 j ·I SOC. SECURITY~ I Apf]IO'VI!.I S~!lolu!efy-l guarantee~ so t-lu'fry ·lilt I · - I our .thisc~rd tod!av .... 1 srGNATURE . _ 1 Your credit cards_~ re ...... at\m~ L ~ ':.! 11ei :t,LI:!:! -IF1:_!3•:'' £:.! 'J!,!: 1 •!) ~- _I - CHEMISTRY DEPARTME.NT . ' SEMINAR Dr. Kurt· Deshayes University of Californ·ia Los Angeles ''Host-Great Relationships'' Tuesday, February 1:3 12:·30 p.m. - N'W-222 Refresments wHI be p.rovi'ded - •

CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS 7':30 to 8:30 p..rn. all are CLUB NEWS welcome to attend a video ____ ....., ______ · program \Jesus As I ~now ·' Him, Segment 8: \Save Your NEWMAN ACTIVITIES CLUB • Heart for Love\ in which John Powell, S.J. shares his feeli.ngs about Jesus and what he means in Father Powell's ~veryday Attention Govt. homes from $1 (u-rcpair). Delinquent, tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602-838-8885. S 17,840 - $69,485. Call 1- 602-838-8885. Lonely? Need a date? Meet that special somcdnc today! Call DATETlME (405) 366- 6335. Page 21 · You arc one of the chosen few, aTri-Dclt has a crush on you. This is just a little reminder, come Monday night and sec if you can find her. Mark- Tuesday Night SuJlpeY - Peb:ruary 13 will be pre-empted by a trip to Farano Cente:r. Farano House 0 n • : life. Study Guides and discussion questions will be pro vi~. Attention - Gvt. seized vehicles from $100. Fords, Mercedes,. Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus buyers guide. 1-602- . 838-8885 ext. A-7090. ' Good luck on the LSats. Keep Need person to shovel wal'kway : smiling and 1 know that you for Catholic Family and 1 wi!I do amazing. CoUJmunity Services, 816 ' Tuesday, February 13 :a group BIBLE STUDy /PRA VER wilt visit Fatano Center for · GROUP Children, opened in No-vember, o T A F. b 13· f · m ·. n · uesl.!!ay, e ruary . · · ro .. 19'87 that provides 8:45 to 9:30p.m. at St. John's comprehensive services to School Library there wHl: be a Attention: Easy work, ·. excellent pay! Assemble products at home. Details: (1) 602-838-8885 ext W -7090. children affected by HIV , continuation of a study of the infection and AIDS as well as GOSPEL OF MATTHEW. All , to ehildren with other special · are welcome. Attention: Earn money medical, physical, and ~~=~======~· 1 • reading books! $32,000/year developmental needs. We will , CLASSIFIEDS · income potential. Details (1) leave, from the College Center 602-838-8885 ext. Bk 7090. .aJ, 1:30 p.m. and ,drive to · Alban¥ where we will be given a tour of the facil::ity. an opportunity to play with the children, bring them Valentine presents and if you w:ish to visit a day ,care close b<y where child:r;en who haved been adopted attend programs; We will return to Union by 5 p.m. If you wish to go please give your name to Sister Joan who will arrange transportation. Overnight Retreai - 5 p.m. Friday, Februry 16 until 5 p.m. Saturday, February 17 at 1630 Nott Street. Tlteme: A Rediscovery of Life. Donation of $7 for food when you register with Sr. Joan. Attention: Earn money · . typing at .hGme! $32;~00/yr · income potential. Detarls, 1- 601·1838-8885. ,ext. T-7090~ Attention Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. Union St. Please contact Lorraine Schmidt at 372-5667 between 9to 5. PERSONALS Pam- : Happy Valentine's Day!!! Bra:! Kris & Net Happy Valentine's Day! Hope you guys are having a great time.. D&M.A. Christine Jen C., Marlo, Sare-Bacr, ' Leslie, Denise & Kim R, • 1 Thanks for helping me thru my week from Hell- you guys arc awesome. Koala Bear Love, Mary . Well for two old N.I.'s we had a good time!! Thank God it wasn't on a boat this time. S-Bcr.rr Father Anthony de MeUo. S.J. gave· this video satellite retreat from the campus of Fordham University in New Yo:rlc City and respunded to C{)llege audiences around the hemisphere by means of a two- way telephone cont:act. He . challenges us to \let go and live,\ let go of conflict, anxiety. tension, pressure, emptiness, loneliness, sadness, and to come back to life. CONFIRMATION - Any Union student who has not been Confirmed may contact Sr. Joan at the College Center 404B. Classes in preiJ>aration for Bishop Hubbard's visit on June 3rd will be arranged with student schedules in mind and will begin first week of spring term. Prize, LARGE Box of Candy Folk Group - All singers and ffillSiCians interested. in being part of the music ministry . at the 7:30 p.m. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m.. in the ci:Jurch to rehearse. The group welcomes anyone to join who regularly attends this Liturgy. Tutoring • Union College students needed to tutilr at any one of the three local elementary schools~ J?lease contact Sheila Humis1on 372- 9231. Any fo1111er tut()rs please write to Sheila at Box 965 and let her know if you are keeping the same assignment or have changed it. VISITING SHUT ·INS • Any Union student wllo wishes to visit a shut-in on a regular basis please contact Gerri Borne at372-3381. VIDEO PROGRAM OnTuesday, Februry 13 at St. ' John's School Library from Stop By and Register to Win a Box of Candy for your Valentine Now through Feb. ~4, 1990 All you need is your NAME and Phone No·.

Page 22 PERSONALS AES- He'U be barfirrg on the floor. -M Ann- 'The Messiah is comingl · -Mart y Mom, \Dad\ didn't look too bad. Kaplan certainly was hard the next morning though. Love, your daughter Leslie, 'The prettiest girl in the williage will be here the weekend. Let's visit her. Marcy MW, Well \munchkin\ I think it was definitely worth coming back; we had a lot of fun didn't we. To my old roomies, Did you guys ever leave the dance floor for more than two minutes. Bill- Happy Valentine's Day! I love & miss you! -Terri Jill- Build it and he will come. Wendy & Theresa- Thanx for all of your support - the Tetris addict CEC - get a real chair - Andy, You blew me off once already, second chances are very hard to come by.- Lina My thesis advisor, How about March of 1996. M For the man with the snowball Happy Valentine's Day Love,. Rapunzel Stormie, It's been a fabulous four months. Happy Valentine's Day! Love, Your pain in the dupa Jorge - Happy Valentine's Day from the 6 women who love you the most. Total heating bill for five months rental of human f umace: eternal nakedness. Veetes Royalties! CONCORD/'ENSIS, February 8, 1990 CAMPUS NEW:S Lost -Long blackcoat- Brand name \Fore.caster.\ Lost Saturday night at Chi Psi. If found please call 377-6612. Rapper- Since the day I met you I knew we were destined to do great cities together!!! -Michele M.M. L- It's about time you consumed. Keep it uP! The word of the week is ...... .. HEDONISTIC!!! Twerp, A couple of weeks late but coincidence .. I don't think so! Lina .· Little Quimby- Congrats! We're psyched for you! Have FUN! Willie, Try not to kill \them.\ 'Stone' Here's to the \oldies but goodies.\ They will NEVER die!! (only graduate- maybe). Cheers to the Beck's beer at the Cat-Fish Lounge in Albany on Washington Ave. Friday night. Todd & Lisa, We're off to see the Wizard. See you there. Kristen Look out LA. No Naples. Naples Italy? No Naples, Florida. Get psyched. Thank you Amex. Mona, Awesome Gamma Phi dress code! Beck; LoveinPKE Marsh Thanks for five mostly great months. Love Christos Alii, I t guess I'm like totally psyched o be your big Sis. Coach Dave, I s think you're confused about omething. TEAM is not pelled R-I-K-A. s c ath- Divorce Court? Never! Love, Me Michele M.M., President's dinner. I'll pick you p at 8:00 p.m. u The Rapper s parrow, B I eware of those killer mopeds. miss you!!! Love, Eagle Winterfest is coming! Jackie- No more clues. It's me! I'm so psyched. Your Big Sister Spotts Staff Nice going. We found you. Concordy Jeff- Happy Valentine's Day. Hope you can celebrate it with a Scandinavian goddess. (Have you found one yet?) L&F, Maryanne Fric and Frac, Which one is my roommate? Winterfest Is Coming. Smoothie, It's beeii great talking to you! Sucker#333 Jocelyn~ Thanks for being there - wheat thins in hand, you always know precisely what I mean! Loveya! Suz Allie and J en A: Thanks so much! You guys are the best! Love, Nicole and Leigh We love our pledges. Love in· PKE. 1'he sisters of Gamma Phf- Donna- You have curfew Friday nite at 8 p.m. .. Love in PKE SHOE- byJeff MacNe!Jy Qll,.,.. .• ...;. . . ~.! .......... WIU.IUA ~tiU:MJii' .. . j: WltMON\t t ·- . . . Presents_ $ ·• All tkly! Sunday through Friday* For a Whole lot ofSkiing!! [77 Trails -17 Lifts_ J Present ·a valid college I. D. at the Main Ticket Booth. 0 /'/DI v.:li.( Sm\'l\i\ o' Jurini 'fiUk o/211 /J • 2)190. $1/J.pric~ Is vt.liJ tlirok6h the ml \''~\\ 1949'90 Ski S~Dfl. For ll(or~w• coil !11246f·450l. Sign up now for TRI-DEL T A'S 2ndAnnua.! JAIL AND BAIL FEBRUARY 21 st and 22nd, in the College Center Pit .. from 9:3Q- 4:30. Arrest your fnends/ roommates for $3.00 · -Or) want tQ get your professors bacl<? Arrest 'em for -only $5.00 *All long distance phone calls are FREEIII · · proceeds go to the American Cancer Society A A A's JAIL AND BAIL PUT rr 01-l'TlAE Plt..C. FOI< lt-1\Wl!SPIA.TG ACTION.

PERSONALS • Lisa, .·Think 3 man Eitner way I love ya! . {Even in the morning!) Belleitue Perspective Nicole, I'll see you m tlle morning. Patty D.- Do thatcool dance for me baby {or don't you remember?,). By the way- you · smel1! · · · _ LQve -Your Favorite Sister len,& 1essica, How about those forrnal dates? Sign up is in College Center.· Ouch, quit it L- You are nota sleeze! I'd love you even if you were a11yway! Kathy, Lina, Ani, Seed I got the darn fish, so leave me alone! Besides., I don't see an.yone else taking care of them, feeding them or talking to· them, where's my credit?! CONCORDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 23 CAMPUS NEWS THIS WEEK AT THE . . ---· COLLEGE CENTER Thursda~y, Februa·ry 8, 1990 11:30 a.m CCAUD Minerva Hour: Levi C. Adams, ''Pluralism, Freedon1, Leadership and the Academy: An Alnerican Dilemma Revisited.'' 4:00pm CCAUD Black History Month Speaker: Walter J. Turnbull of The Boys Choir ~of harlem, \Making a Difference .. \ 5:00pm CC410 Tai Chi Class Friday, February 9, 1990 7, 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: When Harry Met Sally 8.:00 pm CC406 Spanish Club Film / .saturda,, February 10, 1990 5:00 pm UCDH Culinary Expose 7, 9, & 11 CCAUD Fi1m: When Harry Met Sally Sunday, February ll, 1990 7, 9 & 11 CCAUD Fihn: When Harry Met Sally Monday, February 12, 1990 5:30 pm CC409 Pro Choice Group 7:00 pm CC406 Modem Lang. Fihns 7:30pm CC203 S.P.A.A. Meeting ·. 8 & 1() pm CCAUD Film: Imagine: lobn Lennon Your little sis, comrade, Jackie . ·Tn·esday, February 13, 1990 I have nothing new to say to all the little people. P..AI (41), Schack (1), Jim, Billy, Jared & Jason. Hey George, For cheap, quick correspondence, wh~ver knew thls was here (or there)~ r love you & keep smiling! -Jackie (Joy) Angels Winterfest is coming. Sushi- Happy Valentine's Day to you and your roommate. Krell, R- You're great, can't wait until the 17th. AllieS. M · I just wanted to thank you for being there. You're a very special friend and I love you for itH Love, Your Big Sis Fleisch. any day rtow, those bedroom eyes will be put. to use. You got close on Saturday ' night. Keep trying. Love, K and j · PIT A- Even though you can be a PI1FA, I still always love you,. Happy Valentine's Day - eatly. Love, Pookie 6:30pm CC406 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting 5:00 pm · CC302 Meditation Study . 6:00 pm CC409 Speaking hands 7, 9 & 11 CCAUD Film: See You in the Morning Weekly . Crossword \AN AFFAIR OF THE., By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 ___ soul 5 Pulse 111 '\ .. the pure i~ __ . they shall see~ ,God'' 14 Contraction 15 Former \Big Apple\ mayor Hi Identical 11 Comes befare space HI 'Tin Iizzy 211 Music degre11; 21 Belongs to th~ .lady 22 BJessings 23 In front of 25 Half a train 27 Arrhythmia 29 Causing int!nse grief 33 Do a shake df)Wn 34 Jubilate · 35 ·Comes before . \COTICS\: llrugs 36 Demolish · 37 Craze 38 \Brave New- World\ drug · 39 Summer in~ice 40 A gaggle 41 Flax product 42 Perfumes 44 The best 45 Apostle 46 Ann and Cod. 47 Valentine 50 Forest in Frc:~11ce 51 Factory wolier: Abv. 54· Thought 57 Over the hin 5& Landed 59 Happening 60 Noun suffix 61 New York nine 62 \The way to a __ ... \ 63 _ -. -. -· gold DOWN 1 -'~My ___ in my mouth\ 2 Attention getter 3 Resumes a normal state 4 Brit. mil. honor 5 Elvis' Hotel 6 Van Dyke,, eg 7 Wearsaway 8 Sum: Abv. 9 Wire: Abv. 10 \ ... and then my_ still\ 11 Las Vegas game 12 Country in Asia 13 Membs •. of the House 19 Blatk wood 21 \What the do we care\ 24 Nylons 25 Old hag 26 Pack 27 Not in love 28 Holy terrors 29 Unfeeling 30 Where the truth Is found 31 Jim, Jack, Bill.eg 32 Scholarship 34 Kermit & money 37 Engineering Sth. 38 Trig. term 40 Little old man 41 \Loose_ sink ships\ 43 Boots out 44 \ ___ never won fair lady\ 46 Masked mammals 47 Mechanical part 48 Mast 49 \Step ___ !: Hurry up 50 Tres _ : Very well 52 _Chanel 53 Musical term 55 Precedes \BROKE\: City in Mass. 56 U.S. Gov~l. Board 5.7 Drivers' org. ©1990 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady, N.Y. 12309 (Answers on Page 18) 2/90

Page 24 CONCORDIENSJS, February 8, 1990 Come Relive the Music •• of 1969. with FEB 21 at 9:00 in the Atrium · • 00 Resident · Advisor Selection . 1990-91 Pick 'up an application and other information at the Residence Life Office or your nearest Area Coordinator's Office. Monday, Feb. 12 CC Aud. - 8 & 1 0 pm Admission: $1.00 -- Sponsored by the Film Committee ' , ; ' ( APPLICATION DERDLINE: FRlDAY, FEBRUARY 16th Dutch Hollow Restaurant Happy Valentine's Day Enjoy a small coffee and a doughnut .. ~of your choic~ for only 50 cents. That's our way of saying Thank You! Offer Good Between 8:00 am~4:00 pm THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!

CONCtJRDIENSIS, February 8, 1990 Page 25 SPORTS lady Dvtchmen Basketlaall Team Beals Rll, After Two Tough Losses Men's Track Finishes 3rd at Capital District Championships By .R:ON BIRNilAltl\1 The Union Lady Dut<:hllle!l this past week came away ~Witll. mixed tesults, first losing E\V() games ,against l!tica: Teem ami. William Smith and tbe11 comin~ back to defeat RJT. Their overall league recOtrd is now 8-9. The game at Utica Tedl was a 73-57 victory for tbe opposilion. Utica p.Tay-e d • extremely well as .over SOo/o of its shots hit their mark, a.nc:l it had fo11r players who s(uoed in double f:igrues. Union had Otnly one person, sophomore ~u ard Robin Romer, who score[J ill double cligits with 30 po-i11ts. Uni()n returned hotr1e la:st Friday to take on Willb:m Smith which is ranked :teotm jn the nation. The squad stayecl close !llld trailed by ordy ()De point at· halftime lmt ultimately suffered a 53-4 7 loss. The Union defense played well, and had the offense not missed several lay-ups, the game could have been a victory. Union committed 28 times for fouls, giving Utica Tech 17 extra points. Overall, however, this was a good game for the Union players. Playing RIT at home less than 24 hours after the William Smith game, the female globetrotters made a great comeback. As RIT is still a · new team {only four years old), it is still trying to build, and Union won the game easily by a score of 68 to 51. Everyone includi~ bench players had a chance to play, and RIT was unable to match the Union defense. Three Union players: including Romer, senior guard Wendy Vincent and senior guard Gina Prokosch scored in double figures in this game. Overall, Union has played well, and intensity and player dedication have incrased during }lt:actices and games.. Coach Gehling is pleased with the team's level of play, and feels tllat it is currently performing above par; especially on the defense, but falls just short of th..e offensive agression needed t~ put the ball in the hoop. Union has upcoming games against Hartwick and Dc0minican on Feb. 7 and Feb. 9'. respectively. Dominican is unranked, but Hartwick is :tanked 20th in the nation in Division 3. The Dominican game could go either way, but Hartwick will be a real c~allenge. However, in both gf3mes, Union again maintains th.e home court advantage. By SPORTS STAFF This past Saturday, the men's track team travelled to RPI for the Capital District Championships (CDC's) where they competed against SUNY Albany, RPI and Hudson Valley CC. Union finished a strong third with 33 points 'behind Albany and RPI who fini.shed with 90~ l/2 and 54-1/2 respectively. Hudson Valley finished fourth with 13. The Dutchmen worked hard, despite RPI's notorious \square\ IIack, capturing three firsts and scLting several PR's. and jumping 13.26 meters. Rounding out the field, Shawn \QucsL'' Mowry heaved the 35 pound weight 11. 70m to capture d1ird. In the 5000m, Doug Martocci fought his way to third place, finishing in 27:58. Bob Lindybcrg captured fourth in the lOOOm run with a time of 2:49. Rich \Gumby\ Zcmbck also picked up a third in the SOOm with a time of 1:13:5. Freshman Matt \Pedro\ Decker won the 45m dash with a time .of 515 seconds_ Jay Wasserman set his second PR of the day by sprinting througJ,l the 45m in 6:3 seconds. D-eadline is Feb. 12th for All Fall and Summer Union Term AbrOad Applications Union's. first points were scored when senior Chip Silver cleared 1.90m in the high jump to capture first place. The 400m dash led to a second place finish for Jeff Simpkins i·n 53.0 seconds. 'Jay Wasserman followed close behind, finishing in 61.0 seconds, which set a personal record. Will \Elbows\ Allen also ran an impressive race. In the field events, Art \Air\ Broga led Union to second place in the long jump with a leap d 6.5 5 meters. He later came back and captured first in the tri;>le jump-- hop, skipping The last and most exciting event of the day was the 4 x 400m relay. Bill Taylor, Jeff Simpkins, Bob Lindyberg and Chip Silver held off a strong Albany team to win with a time of 3:35.1. Coach Herrington had nothing but praise for his team. \They ran very aggressively and were beating RPI for a good portion of the meet. I was very pleased with the overall team effort.\ Next weekend, the Union Track Team travels to the Colgate Invitational. •. · ...... ;.. ................................................... · .• - •.••••. ... .~ ~- ..... ·• ....... - .... - !f\9c/0n-1\p[{ Pizza Pu6 Weekfy speciafs . . free cfe[ivery on campus 370-6060 Is Now Accepting Applcations for PART-TIME EMPLOYMEN·T All Shifts Available Apply in Person at Dutch Hollow WE NOW FEATURE NIGHTLY SPECIALS THE WAY YOU LIKE IT! ~-~~.~ .. ~ ....•.. ~ ... ~ .. ~.~ ........ ~~.~~~.~ .. ~~·.~~ ...•..• ~~~ , ' I e 0 ' • > ' 0 '• 0 ' 0 1L

'rage ··26 --------------------------------~--------------~~------------~~--------~----------~----- SPORTS Track Teams Send A Large Group to Post Season Me·ets By MEG PARSONS Here it is, just what you need to get rid of those mid- winter term blues; the official run down of who has qualified for the post season track meets! For the women's team, Denise Saunders has qualified in her specialty, the 55 meters, for both the New York State Women's Meet and for the ECAC meet. Freshman Deb Dumas who is currently suffering from an ankle injury, qualified for the CTC meet at Southern Connecticut, the New York Women's States, and the ECACs in her four usual events, the long jump, triple jump, high jump, and 55 meter hurdles. She has also qualified for the States in the shot put and for ECACs in the pcntathalon. Sophomore Rika Poor has qualified for both States and ECACs in the 400 meters, as weH lllS the States in the 800 and 1500 meters. Also qllalifying for all three meets in the 15()0 meters is senior Eileen Brady. Juni0r Meg Parsons has qmdified for the ECAC meet in the 50(:) meters. Sophomore Sandy Anselment has been working hard and has qualified for beth the CTC meet anti the States in the 1000 meters. In the weight throw, sophomore Alix Goldschmidt has qualified for both the CTC and ECAC meets. In the shot put, all three of tile Union's thvowers, Alix, Beth Jewett and Lori Simkins have qualified for all three post season meets. The men's team also has several CJUalifiers. Heading up ' the team is senior co-captain Jeff Simkins. He has <~oualified for the State meet in the 55 meter hurdles, the 5()0 meters, and for the CTC meet in the high jump. Fellow senior co- captain Chip Silver has qualified for both meets in the high jump. Art Broga has qualified for both meets in the triple jump and for men's States in the long jump. Freshman standout Matt Decker, who is not far from qualifying for Div. III Nationals in the 55 meters, has easily qualified for both the CTC and State .meets. In the throws, junior Matt Guyette has qualified for States in the shot put. This weekend both teams will travel to Colgate for their last meet before these post season meets begin. If you have been thinking about joining this fun, hard working team, practice for the outdoor .season begins soon! Please contact Coach Dave Herrington if you are interested. The M.I.A. 50/50: Raffle was won by David Mannato of U.pperclass Dining Hall. The ticket was drawn by Erica Levine, Class of '92 on Tuesday, Feb. 6, 1990. The raffle was held in order to assist the men interested in pledging Alpha Phi Alpha Frat, Inc. To all who supported us:~ we send our most sincere thanks. Cal lege Students PERMS • $25 STYLE CUTS FO.R WOMEN - $9.00 MEN - $6.00 M.I.A.'s LOOKING FOR COLLEGE ASSISTANCE? LOOK TO AIR FORCE ROTC. You may be eligible for a scholarship that can pay full college tuition, textbooks, fees ... and. $100 each academic month. Best of all, your future will get a boost that lasts a lifetime. You'll respond to the chal- lenge tOo become a leader, graduating with a commis- sion as an Air Force officer -an individual with solid man- agement skills and an unlimited future. Contact Tllis can be your world through Air Force ROTC. CAPT DAVID MILEWSKI 518·276-6236 ---· ----- ---------- ---~ ~ --- ·-- ..... ...... _. - .--...~-- ~ = ======: .. ;:--:~'· ............. -~ ....... ......... - _, ~~=~ !J\ Leadership Ex:cetlence Starts Here Dutchmen Beat RIT As Brescia Catches Fire By DAVID SA CHAR After consecutive wins over Kings Point and Midd1ebury, the Dutchmen hosted Rochester Institute of Technology this past Saturday at the Memorial Field House .. There, Union's Jerry Brescia shot the lights out and helped put RIT in the dark, as Union won big, 89-75. Brescia helped to tame the Tjgers from RIT by shooting an incredible 10 for 13 from three point range. He did not make any two point field goals, but hit three foul shots to f'inish as the game's high scored with 33 points. The Dutchmen took a comfortable 44-30 lead into the locker room at halftime and then opened :the second half with a 9<2 surge. This proved to be the knockout blow for the Tigers as the Dutchmen coasted to their fifth win in their last six games. The Dutchmen now stan:d one game below the 500 mark with a record of 8~9~ Although Brescia stoTe Saturday's show, other members of the Dutchmen squad playe.d solid games as well Freshman forward Greg D~lan had a game high 12 rebo~nds while sophomore R.o:n Prior pumped in 11 points. The Dutchmen travel to Clarkson on Friday. Listen to WRUC 89.7 FM The Dutchmen Sports Network LQN,DON The Arts • Finance/Economic Research/ Management • Human/Health Services. Politics • Advertising/PH/Marketing Journalism/Broadcast/Film PARI'S WASHINGT,ON Media • PublicHelations • Business Tourism • Fashion • The Arts • Government Boston Un•vers1ty lnternat1cnal Programs 725 Commonwealth Avenue B2 Boston. lVI A 02215 617 353-9888 Politics • Business/Economics • Pre-law lnternation<~l Relations • Journalism/ Communications • Health 'Fields • The Arts Each 14-week internship program includes: 16 Boston University semeste.r-hout credits, full-time internships, course work taught by local faculty. centrally located housing, and indiviqualized placements .for virtually every academic iAterest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring. fall, and summer. The'Washington program is offered during the fall and spring. BOSTON UNIVERSITY An equal opportumty. aH1rmatrve act1on mstlfurJOn A representative from Boston University will be on campus: INFORMATION SESSION FEBRUARY 8, 4:00 -5:00PM HUMANITIES FACULTY LOUNGE 1·-----·---·--··--··--·---- --------------------------------------·---·--\1 Name __________ ~--~~ Address----------+------- City ____ State __ Zip_'.- College/University~----- _summer _._Fall -. Spring 19_ _London Internship Programme _The Arts _ Finance/Economic Research/ Management _ Human/Health Services _Politics -· Advertising/PR/Marketing _Journalism/Broadcast/Film _ Parislnternship·Program _Washington Internship Program ANYONE IN TERES TED IN WRITING FOR CONCORDIENSIS, PLEASE COME UiP TO THE CONCORDI·ENSIS OFFICE, \ROOM ·3031N THE COLLEGE CENTER ON TUESDAY AT 6:00 ,NO EXPERI'ENCE NECESSARY

CONCORDIENSIS, February 8,. 1990 Page 27 OJnnrorbirttsis SPORTS Gina, Prokosch Scores 21 :Points an,d ~rabs 6 :Rebounds ;in Victory Over R:I·T By MARK ZIM-MERMAN Spar ts Editor Tbis week's Athlete of the Week is seni<>r Gina Prokosch. Gina was the leading scorer last Saturday as the women's basketball team defeated RIT by a score of 68-51. Gina had 21 points and 6 rebounds and upped her shooting average to 15.9 points a game. Gina, in only her third year on the team after sitting out her freshman year, has already Scored 715 points in her career •. becornin1g only the sixth woman in Union history to score over 100 points. With six. games: remaining on the schedule, she should finish the season ·in the top five ranking of all-time leading scorers. It should also be noted that each of the players on the top five Gina Prokosch scoring chart played on the varsity level for four full seasons. As a guard she is very aggressive and is not afraid. to shoot. She has made 6 of 15 three point shots. So far this season, Gina has been one of the top two scorers in 14 ef the Learn's 1 7 gaines. She is seeond on the team in points aqd leads the team in shooting .percentage. Last season, Gina was voted the Most Valuable Player on the team and was selected .to.be one of the team's captains. This season she is again one of th.e captains and her · leadership, athletic ability and determination will be sorely missed next season. Union Skiing Dutchmen Hit Slopes By PETER COWLES The Union Ski Team races in the mid-east division of the National' . Collegiate Ski Association along with fourteen othet schools such as Colgate,. Clarkson, Hamilton, S yracusoe,. and Army. Each weekend, all fourteen teams compete in both slalom and giant slalom events with each team fielding five competitors for eaoll men's and women's team. Team results are calculated by adding together_ the teams of each teamis top three fimishers, thus getting a cumulative team time. A~ tbe end ofth:e five-weekend season, the top five teams fm: the men and tlie women earn bids to the Eastern Championships at Waterville Valley, New Hampsbire. Unio11's; season started off with a r()ad trip to Syracust.\ and an annual visit teD Bart Lehmann,. the il1famous skiing alumnu:s. Blessed with a blanket of new snow, the team set out to meet our competi ti,on at Toggenberg. The competition proved to be quite still 'this y_ear a::; the results of Saturday's slalom unfolded. The women's team, consisting of third year veteran Allison Paltotta, four year vet Amy Kraeger, sophomores Beth Foley and Kristen LaBrie, and freshman Julie Jamieson came io sixth overall with Pallotta in 12th, Foley in 18th, and Kraeger in 26th .. The men were led by freshman Sean Livingston's 15th place finish. Jem Sollinger had a rocky start four tbe season by not finishing .his first run. Steve Rowe, John Meier, and Peter Cowles rounded out the men's slalom team which finished ninth overall. Sunday's giant slalom was plagued by more new snow and equipment failures. The women were again led by Pallotta who finished in 15th. Kraeger and Jamieson closed out the scoring while LaBrie and Foley were victims of pre-released bindings. The women managed eighth place, putting them in seventh for· the weekend. The men's team struggled with the rough and rutted course and had .similar problems. Sollinger and Livingston both pre• released on the. first run, leaving Rowe, Meier, and freshman Josh Goldberg to claim a seventh place finish, - giving them an eighth for the weekend. The next weekend was filled with more new snow as the team travelled to Hunter Mountain. Once again, Union performed in·consistently, though there were several spots of improvement. The women finished fifth as a team in the slalom, led by I;!eth Foley in 15th, Betsy Mitchell in 20th, and Pallotta in 21st after a fall. The men were put in a must finish pQsition as J em and freshman Greg Holmes didn't finish their first ru11s. The men finished in eighth place paced by Steve Ro'Ye in 19th, Sean Livingston in 23rd, and Peter Cowles in 33td. St~nday's GS was run during a snowstorm. The course repeatedly had to be cleared of the new snow so as to reveal the hard surface of ice preferred by racers. The Union women salvaged a seventh place finish after Pallotta crashed during her second run. The women finished sixth for the weekend. As Foley finished in 21st, Mitchell in 24Lh and Kraeger in 25th, Lady luck continued to haunt the men's team as Jem Sollinger crashed hard during his first run. However, Sean Livingston cranked to a sixth place finish, followed by Cowles in 28th, and Meier in 34th. Again the men finished eighth overall. The sun came out for the men's team the next weekend at West Mountain. Jcm Sollinger finished his first run of the season and started a new trend, finishing 20th in the slalom. Livingston cracked the top team again with a 9th place and Rowe bounced back with a good second run to put the men in sixth. The women were bolstered into 5th place with Pallott's eighth place finish, Sunday's GS proved even more exciting for the men. Sollinger smoked his second run, turning in the third fastest time, onlY ;06 seconds off the lead. Jem carne in seventh followed by Livingston 'in 23rd and Cowles in 33rd. Tltis gave the men a fifth place in the OS. Th.e women finished fourth when Foley irt 9th and Mitchell, Kraeger and Jamieson all in. the teens. As Union builds momentum, others ought to beware. Both the men and the women have realistic shots at making the Eastern Championships and the next two weekends show a lot of promise for these two young teams. DOUBLEHEAD·ER HOCKEY ACTI.ON: FRIDAY at 7:30 and. SATURDAY at 2:00 Mouthing Off By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Rules, rules; rules. They . govern referees,. who in turn hand out penalties, throw flags, and call fouls. And most of the time, in the end, it is these · penalties, flags, and fouls which determine the outcome • of these particular games. In many cases, the intervention of the referees and officials is helpful; in ol:hers, it is ·not only detrimental, but ·their judgements seem arbitrary. I am not attempting to berate the people who's job it is to officiate sporting · events. Rather, I am unsatisfied · with the individuals who create . the rules for the officials to enforce. These rules arc the · cause of the countless . controversies which arise from games, not the competence, or incompetence, of the officials calling the plays. Unfortunately, I cannot come up with a solution to this · · important problem. You · cannot take the \humanness\ out of sport because it is the human successes and failures · which make sports so · • intriguing and delightful to its · fans. Replacing officials with computers or complete television judging would take · away an important clement which champions have to · . overcome in order to will. Therefore, all I can do is ask for one thing: CONSISTANCY. Specifically, consistent enforcement of the : rules to the letter of the \laws\ (and \bylaws\) by the game officials. Once athletes know exactly what they can do to keep a penalty or foul from being called, or a flag from being thrown, they can concentrate on playing rather tban on the referee and what kind of infractions he will call. This is too simple and naive, I know, but it never hurts to dream. It also never hurts to point out flaws in existing rules. It is bad enough that ambiguity surrounds many of the rules of sport. To have rules which serve the wrong pmpose, or no purpose, only hurts the athletes themselves, and we all know that an athlete can't afford to get \hurt\ too many times or he will become an EX -athlete. First and most important case in point -The National Hockey · League and its enforcement of high Sticking penalties. A player is penalized according to the severity of his victim's injury. Basically, what this translates to on the:; ice is blood ~ if it is flowing from the face of the high-stickee, a five-minute major or a game- misconduct is given to the high-sticker; otherwise, a minor penalty is assessed. ln more basic terms, fans, and I'm sure players, hope blood is drawn so the penalty is more stringent. But to me this sounds gory, if not stck. I know th'e argumen~ can be made that a player fakes a high- sticking injury in order to draw a penalty against the opponent. However, it can also be argued that some very serious injuries which might hot draw blood, like a broken cheekbone for example, will not be called because the \evidence\ is not flowing down the vicLim's face. The only feasible solution I can think of is not one I wo11ld like to sec implemented, but ihcre is not much choice here. Either junior hockey and college players must remove their faccmasks, thereby reducing a great deal of the stickwork which is so widespread at these levels, or have professional players wear the faccmasks, which would only lead to more stickwork because the \hockey fight\ as we know it would become virtually useless. Another highly controversial rule can be found on the gridiron. The National Football League has tried for the past few years to reduce the dispute over many calls made by officials by instituting the usc of the instant replay. How(vcr, this idea will be scrapped at the upcoming owners meeting because they arc not totally satisfied with its results. Of course they arc not satisfied because the instant replay cannot overrule a pass interference calL This is a judgement call by the referee, but in many cases it is an acting job by the players. Change the rule Paul Tagliabue. Follow college football's lead and give the offense ten yards and a first down, regardless of where the penalty occurs on the field. That way the penalty will become a less volatile one and attention will be focused on other issues instead of referee's calls. And to the NBA - why is a player given a technical foul for hanging ·on the rim? J>er~onaHy, I think it is kind of fun to watch, and it doesn't hurt anyone. What docs hurt is when the game offiCials do not call breakaway fouls when one is warranted. If it was called Fcgularly, there wouldn't be as many players falling over fans in the stands or running into the basket stanchion. Finally, a change of pace onto a new court, the tennis court. Why can't tennis players display their emotions on the court? Why do they have to behave like golfers? Is tennis a more civilized game than baseball? the line judges make the same human mislakes that umpires make, so why can't tennis players protest ~d argue the way baseball players do? .Something there isn't logical, but then again, who said sports and its myriad of rules were logical? Certainly not John McEnroe.

The women's 'Swim Teatn remained undefeated with one meet remaining. The oranges were 1,1ying and so· were the Dutchme~ as they shelled Hamnton,. 5 .. 4. Swim Team Drowns Arch Riva:ls By JAMIE LiPSHER Hamilton has always been Union's biggest rival and toughest competition in swimming. Last year Union travelled to Clinton, N.Y. and competed in Hamilton's new athletic facility which was copied inch for inch, tile for tile from Union's Alumni gym. But this year, they were on our home turf. The Dutchmen, unfortunately, were unable to come away with a win. They lost by the final score of 140 to 93. However, the men have nothing to be ashamed of or disappointed about as there were a number of remarkable swims. Once again, freshman Cliff Shaw broke two of his own personal bests as well as school records. He came in first in the 1000 yard freestyle with a winning time of 10:29:57. Though Cliff only stroked into second place in the 500 yard frcestyle.he still set the record with a time of 5:04:00. Andy Wagshul was a double winner in the 100 and 200 yard \Hamilton is one ()f our toughest competitors; it was a big win for us.\ freestyle events. Tony Trcmaglio, last week's Athlete M the Week, continued to perform well, winning the 200 Individual Medley. Dave Robison, a freshman and the Dutchmen's sole diver, continued to dominate the event winning both the one and three meter competitions. Coach Bassett commented.; \I was really pleased overall. lt was a good meet. The big difference between Union and Hamilton is depth. They just have more people on the team to fill events. And no matter how many first places a team takes, it is just as important to capture the second, third, fourth, and fifth positions;. they count for poi11ts too and in the end it all adds up. tt well, they got us this year but the team is young; there's always next year. On the other hand, the Union women's swim team created some serious waves. They drowned Hamilton with an overpowering final score of 146 to 91. The Dutchwomen took first place in every event, If freshman S baron Gatt had been playing hockey we would have said that she had a \hat- trick\ for the night; in swimming language, though, we simply can say that she was a triple winner. Sharon \came saw, and co11quered\ the 200 and 500 freestyle events and did the same in the 200 yard Butterfly. Obviously, senior captain Kathy Kavaney had no teary eyes or sad feelings toward her last home swim meet at Union College because she simply raged in the pool on Saturday winning the first place spot in both the 50 and 100 yard freestyle events. Senior diver Mary KeHy won the one meter diving with a total score of 182 points while her eventual successor, freshman Kristy Holbrook, captured the title in the three meter diving event with a total score of 231 points. Coach Bassett seemed relatively pleased. She said, \Hamilton is one of our toughest competitors; it was a big win for us. We have Albany State on Wednesday but we are really beginning to turn our attention now toward States. I think we are in a position to do really well.\ It may llavc been a cold winter's day outside but the Union swim team was hot inside. They left the ground- hog and Hamilton deep ill the shadows of the pool. WOMENS STATE SWIMMING MEET AT HAMILTON MENS STATE SWIMMING MEET AT BUFFALO February 8, 1990 A Winless But Not Lo,st Weekend Skating Dutchmen Tie Hobart; Fall in OTtoRIT . By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-chief The scoreboard might indicate that the Union hockey team last weekend continued its recent pattern of inconsistency mixed with mediocrity. However, given the circumstances, the long trip to western New York should prove worthwhile at some point down the line. \Because of the way we played, we should benefit from the games,\ said senior co- captain Guy Logan. Logan did not appear in the past weekend's games or in Tuesday night's home game against Hamilton as he continued to serve a three-game suspension for his part in an altercation at Norwich on January 27. Logan will return to action Friday night when the Dutchmen host Colby at 7:30. For the Hobart game last Friday, Union was without five of its top scorers, due to suspensions, and still ,managed a 2-2 overtime tie. Dan Gould, Bill Railton, Dalton Menhall and Tim Cregan all returned to the lineup for the RIT game. Hobart outplayed Union but was unable to converft on a number of point-blank opJJortunities. Much of that was attributable to the fine goaltending of senior Ron Kinghorn, who was outstanding in both barnes over the weekend. Hobart took a 1-0 lead in the first period, but sophomore David Moody, one of the replacement players, muscled off a Statesmen defender to break in alone and tie the game in the second period. J:unior Terry Campbell scored on a deflection to give the Dutchmen the lead early in the third period. But it would he a short-lived advantage because Hobart tied the game 24 seconds later. The game tightened up somewhat at that point, but both teams still would have numerous chances to win the game. \With the five people we had out, we had to be pleased,\ said Head Coach Bruce Delventhal. The team stayed in Rochester Friday night, so they would not have to travel far to take on the conference-leading Tigers. RIT beat Union in the finals of the ECACs last year, and the last time that the Dutchmen defeated the Tigers was in 1985. To say that the Dutchmen were excited about having the opportunity ·to exorcise some haunting ghosts . would be like saying that communism is having its momentum slowed. Tim Cregan opened the scoring at 7:46 of the first period while the Dutchmen were short-handed when he stole a pass intended for the point man in the Union zone and raced the length of the ice to beat RIT goalie Fred Abraham. Jeff Reddish scored for the Tigers on the power- play at 13:07. With 22 seconds remaining in the period RIT forward Phil Roe was assessed a 5-minute major, as well as a game misconduct for butt-en~Jing a Onion player.iliat gave Union five minutes .of power-play, during which time they would be free to score without the penalty expiring. But instead of taking the lead at .this point, the Dutchmen may have handed tne momentum back to the Tigers. Union spun its wheels for the first three minutes, hardly able to penetrate Tiger territory. RIT scored at 8:06 when Jay Lach put the puck past Kinghorn. That was the only goal of the second period, despite the fact .that each team had 20 sliots on goal. Dalton Mennall deflected a Terry Campbell shot past Abraham at 6:()2 of the third period for a power-play goal and a 2-2 tie~ In overtime, though, Bill GaH's dump-in eluded both defenseman Brian Lucey and Kinghorn, and RIT had foiled a strong effort by the Dutchmen. Dutchmen Steamroll Hamilton By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chi·ef Sparked · by a five-goal second period outburst, the Dutchmen spanked the Continentals, 6-4, to sweep the season series. Union outshot HamHton 18-2 in the period. Marc Goguen scored his. fifth goal of the year at 5: 15 of the second period to break a 1-1 tie. The Dutchmen would never look back, as Darrell Gustafson and Dalton Menhall would score within the next 2: 18 to send goalie Grant Wood and his Continentals re.eling. Bill Railton and Scott Whitney also scored in the period to give Union a commanding 6-2lead ent~ring tb~ third period. Whitney's goal came on a beautifuJ end-to-rush while the Dutchmen were on the power- pla,y. Hamilton scored the only two goals of the third period, but never seriously threatened. Rick Clifford opened the scoring at 2:4-6 of the first when he was sprung on a break by Rick Burchill. Following Clifford's goal,. Wood had to duck into his net for shelter from the traditional cascade of oranges thrown by the Achilles crowd .. Union, 10-6-3, hosts Colby Friday night (7:30 start), and Bowdoin Satm:day afternoon (2:00 start). Oswego will be at Achilles Tuesday night, as the Dutchmen continue a stretch that will see them close out the year with 7 ·()t 8 games at home. \

~ ! \ Vol. CXIX, No. 13 Adm·issions Gears Up For Selection Process By MATT LANNI Dean ·of Students Joseph Mammola The Office of Admissions reports that there have been 230 applications for early decision this year, 123 male applicants and 107 female applicants. Early decision applicants are those who decide Crozier stated that the · College is always looking for a well-rounded student body. But, special talents that the College seeks in applicants vary from year to year. Administratio·n Seals Fate On C-~mp Union . that· Union is their first choice . and, if accepted, will attend. . Dianne Crozier, Senior • . Assistant Dean of Admissions, By ERIK P. KRAFT Is this a step towards a dry Union? \This is a very important step in not having a dry campus. The policy is intended to allow the students an opportunity to use alcohol legally and responsibly\ were Dean Matnmola's words on The College is always looking for a well- rounded student body. But special talents that the College seeks for vary from year to year. this question. However, should said that more applications the students opt not to use probably will arrive. Crozier alcohol legally and added that last year there were responsibly, steps might have 234 early decision applications to be taken. Time is needed to at the final count, so this year's see just how well students applications \look promising.\ comply with th~ new policy~ When asked how applicants But What about Camp are judged, Crozier described a Union? A memo from Dean • two-stage evaluation process. Mammola states \The College , First, the admission board has determined that Camp evaluat-es-a student's academic \Certain qualities are desirable, as in athletes, or musicians, but it is dependent on the profile of what we need,\ explained Crozier. She· further stated that the college wants to attract more women. Two years ago, Union entered a class with 50% men and 50% women. However, last year's entering class was comprised of 42% women, 58% men. \A . . ttraetmg women 1s a challenge,\ Crozier stated. Attracting minorities is another goal of the Admissions Office. In November, the \Overall what is important to us is how well a student performed in high school.\ -Diane Crozier By now, just about everyone knows about the ,change .in N.Y. state law regarding underage drinking. This law states: \It is unlawful for anyone under the age of 21 to possess alcohol with intent to consume it.\ It was this law that spawned the new social poli-cy here on the Union campus. According to Dean Marnmo1a, this new policy is a sta~ement by the College of its · expectations of the student body to obey the new law. He admits that -the degree of compliance remains to be seen, as t11e policy is new, but his confidence level is high. _This policy is enforced on . campus by the I.F.C. In ·. January. one fraternity was put on probation for failing to :. regi-ster a party. This fraternity lost its party privileges for three weeks. So far, this has . been the only known infraction. Ali parties must be registered by a person over 21 with Student Activities office. Union, which concluded ten record, and the ability of a College sent invitations out to years as an officially sanctioned prospective student to succeed minority students who had event last spring, will no here at Union. If the l.on.ger be .. held at Union ..... The . 0 been recommended by their Adm1ssions .· ffice believes a guidance counselors to attend a last two years have student can succeed, the Minority Weekend. During this unfortunately brought a student's personal qualities, weekend, the College hosted trashing of the campus, such as special talents. are prospective students and - _______ c_o_n_t .... in_u..,.e_d_o,...n __ p_a __ g_e_3_:__e_val_ua_ted_.________ . planned activities to ehcourage ·Orange Throwing Incident Embarrasses College By ELISE FOODY News Editor Refreshments were not supposed to be served after the Union hockey game against Bowdoin Saturday afternoon. However, aproximately 30-40 Union students in attendance at the game had other ideas. _ The tradition of throwing .. oranges onto the ice rink that was usually associated with the . Hamilton game was initiated at · Saturday's game. involved in the incident were • called in to discuss the situation. The students were asked to cooperate with the Administration in putting a stop to this type of behavior. All the students agreed to do so. As a result of the students' actions, the College has officially apologized to the coach of the Bowdoin hockey team, the team's players, and the Athletic Director at · Bowdoin. The College received · · , a number .of concerned phone calls and letters regarding the incident. Dean Mammola also their interest in the. school. · This year's attendance was up. \Overall what is important to us is how well a student performed in high school,\ concludes Crozier. \ February 15, 199() Flashers Pose Security Problems By STEVEN CARR The third of a series of flasher incidents ()Ccurred at 9 o'clock p.m. on February 5, w ben several female students studying in the first' floor hallway of the Science and Engineering building were approached by a man in a long coat. The man, who was described as thirty years old, approximately six feet tall, weighing about 17 5 pounds, wit.h brown hair parted back, opened his coat and exposed himself. The students tllan ran and called Campus Security; however, when security arrived. there was nobody- in the area fitting the description. The other two .incidents occured on camJlus earlier in this term. The first happened on January 6, at around 2:50 a.m. on the south side of Achilles Rink. An. anonymous caller reported the incident to Campus Security, describing the perpetrator as a short male with long, dark hair. The second such incide-nt took place on February 3, at around 12:30 a.m. It happelled in the Raymond-Potter parking lot, when a female student was warming her car and was approached by a man wearing a trenchc0at. The man was described as bei[lg in his mid- to-late twenties, about six feet tall, weighing aj)proximately 170 pounds, witll black hair. Continued on page 4 According to Dean of Students Joseph Mammola, approximately 40 students from ·two to three different fraternities have been identified as having participated in the incident. Although no one was hurt, respresentatives from the fraternities believed to be mentioned that the College is \asking for students' cooperation, and we teel certain that everyone understands why it shouldn't happen again.\ Photo of the Week: Students enjoy pre-social policy days at the Union College Rathskellar.

Page 2 CONCORDIENSIS, February L5, 1990 NEWS ANALYSIS By BRAD MONDSCHEIN General Manager This week the South African government released Nelson Mandela. Many people around the world danced in the streets Ma·n.dela's- Release May Spark Bloodshed In Sou.th Africa for the freed anti-apartheid activist. The frenzy in the bl'ack townships in South Africa was so great that M2ndela feared being seen in pah lie because of the riot it wollld cause. Mandela pledged, up()n his release, to keep supporting the militant wing of the African National Congress. Although he upheld armed resistance, he wanted tbe movement tO' lead to peace. The problem that will arise is the threat of open civil war in the country that everyone ·Gorbachev Silenc.es His Critics the Communist Party t() revoke Article 6 of the Soviet constitution, which reads, \The leading and guiding force <>f Soviet society and the nucle11s of its political system, of all state organizations and public organizatins, is the Communist party of the Soviet Union.\ Soon enough, Russians will enjoy a genuinely democratic poUtial process and Mr. Gorbachev's historic role here cannot possible be overstated .. Uy JON KELLER On Wednesday. February 7, Mikhail Gorbachev initiated what historians may one day, refer to as The Third Russian Revolution. The first overthrew the Czar in February, 1917. The second came nine months later, when Lenin's Bolsheviks deposed an interim democratic regime and im]}osed the dictatorship of the Communist Party. Now, Mr. Gorbachev has done the inconceivable, the unthinkable. He has persuaded the members of the Central Committee of After three days of spirited, emotional debate, he convinced tl!e members of the Central Committee to forfeit the monopoly on power they have enjoyed for seven decades. He seems to be ignoring. The South African government, the w·hite apartheid government, consists of mainly two .factions, the moderates. and . the conservatives. The moderates, wllo are in power at this moment, favor the release of Mandela and negotiations to end the apartheid rule. The conservatives, on the other ·hand, want South Africa to be split into separate sovereign nations. The white nation would be able to live in peace with the many black nations that would represent the traditional tribes of .the area. This a:pproach sounds like a good idea, until the fighting breaks out. The traditional tribes of the South Afric!lfl nation have long h. as persuaded them . to risk participation in a political arena which leaves them in the weakest corner. Why? If the .question is considered within the context of the events unfolding in Eastern Europe; then it is apparent · that communism no longer holds legitimacy among the people; legitimacy is essential to Gorbachev's progam. Without popular support it cannot succeed. To be sure, if Russians are unwilling. to support the program, then they will not be patient enough to endure the hardship that -is to come in the months ahead. It is also safe to conclude at this point that, as New York Times writer Francis Clines been in disputes over the trilla~ bOundaries. Having the white g.overnm.ent spHt t:lle ·. boundaries into :parts would further infuriate the blacks, Mandela, as leader of tile African. National Congress, will be instramenta-1 in forming this split. There is llO doubt ·· that the reJease of Mandela was not approved by the entire white .populaticn. Therefore. the conservatives may gain more power in the government due to it. This will push the secession of tile different states forward alld eventually lead to a bloody civil war among the various states. Therefore. Mandela.'s release is a step forward for tlle blacks of South Aftica, but may tum into a bloody war in the end. states, \Mr. ·Gorhachev has thus far sbown his ability to command .the agenda and basically get what he wants approved.\ Questions have arisen of late concerning Gorbachev's durability, concerning whether he will :be able to survive this tumultuous period of upheaval in tile Soviet Union. Certainly, this should silence the skeptics. Consider what he has persuaded his comrades to do, to forfeit much of the power, privilege and prestige they have enjoyed for over seven decades. Only a dynamic, visionary, politically dominant leader could stage such a coup iu the Soviet Union. Conservatis:m And Liberalism: You Draw The Lines ,, By BETH .PINCUS Are we more conservative than our parents? Generally, most of us would immediately reject this idea. However, with Ronald Reagan and a conservative agenda in the 1980s, many parents have actually found themselves more liberal in their beliefs than their children. Webster's loosely defines conservativism as the desire for the preservation of the sta~us quo, and liberalism as the desire for progress and individual freedom f()r self-development. In SPAA (Students for PoUtical awareness and Action) tllis week, we enjoyed an animated dis~ussion on this t()·p ic. Has our campus, in particular, become more liberal in the past four years? We decided that it most definitely has. The success of certain pr<>gressive groups on campus is evidence of this. Last Spring term, much auention. had been received 'by an editorial to the SentiRel that described one student's fear that Union College was Union is inde~d becoming less conservative, but it is far from being a \liberal campus.\ becoming too liberaL Tile consensus resulting from our discussion, was that Union is CALENDAR OF MEETINGS FOR NON-· UNION TERMS ABROAD: IN THE HUMANITIES FACULTY LOUNGE 2/16/90 2/16/90 2/20/90 2/22/90 2/27/90 Lansdowne College of London at 10:00 \ A.M. Beaver College for the City University of London (LSE), etc. - 1:30 P.M. The Swedish Program Inter.-Study Programmes in Britain/Ireland, 4-5 P.M. ' 0 Butler University for Great Britain and Australia, 10:30 A.M.-12:30 P.M. indeed becoming less conservative, but it is far from being a \liberal campus.\ The entire concept of liberalism and conscrvativism is now forced to change due to current political events. Internationally, the changes in Europe are cutting down our need for arms buildup, thus taking away the Republican'.s . sttOnge~t and most popular voting issue. Nationally, voters arc even pushing them toward a pro-choice stand. The conscrvati ve and lib0ral lines arc no longer drawn by the . political parties. It appears that the once indelible margin is slowly· being erased and a middle-of-the-road philosophy will be the trend of the 1990s. Next week, we will disc.uss Nicaragua and Honduras and the upcoming elections. AU are welcome to attend! The meeting is at 7:30 p.m. m Room 203 in tile CoHege Center. YEARBOOK MEETING TONIGHT, .• FEBRUA:RV ·15 7:00PM CC RM. 308 BE THERE! / j I I I Co pru WI till las in the lm de an ab m: fo at sc Stl fa cc

/ i i I I l ·I CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1996 Page 3 Decade Of Camp Union Comes To· A Close Continued fr.orn page 1 come up with ideas for smaller particularly West Beach and events to take the place of West College, vandalism · Camp Union and guidelines thtollghout the campus and, · have been set. Some of these last year, a fire deliberately set guidelines are: no outdoor in the early rnorning hours.'' It movies on Friday night, no was these factors, along with outdoor events involving the new social policy that amplified music, and brought about Camp Union's ·reallocation of funds previously demise. With police obliged to for Camp Union for various arrest attyone under 21 with events throughout the month alcohot such a large event ofMay. marked by drinking would be So, the question is: Can foolish, especial:fy as it anything replace Camp Union? attracted s~udents from other . Will smaller events provide the schools. and high school · \feeling·-of-togethemess'' some students. This wouldjust make students reported feefing at for a messy scene. A • Camp Union? Only .time will committee has been set up to tell. Remember to reapply for financial aid (scholarship\ loan • work study) BY APRIL 15TH Applications available at the Union College Financial Aid Office 2nd Floor, Becker Hall • 37o-6123 PanheUenlc Council Sponsors Rape Crisis Cabaret Jl y GABY SMALL Greeks To Sponsor ·Charity Tournament Tonight, Thursday, February By TOM ANDRU.CHOW children to the Union College 15, at 8:00 p.m.,. the Recently, a proposal was campus to enjoy the day and Panhellenic Council will be suggested by David I. · possibly get matched up with a sponsoring a cabaret in tile Old Andelman,. of p.fli Gamma big brother or big sister. At the Chapel to benefit tbe Delta, that the Greeks come tournament's conclusion the Schenectady Rape Crisis ' together this spring; to run a tournament entry fees and all Center. There will be two-on-two v()Ueyball other donations will be performances by various Union · tournament, with all proc.eeds presented to Schenectady Big College students. AU students • .going directly to cllarity. This . · Brothers and Big Sisters. The are welcome to attend. · event would bring some much donation will be on behalf of Admission is $:2.00 and needed and well deserved the Union College Greeks in refreshtnep.ts will be provided. publicity w the Greek system. memory of Simon F .R. The Schenectady :Rape Crisis The tournament ~:ill be held Nottidge, the Phi Gamma Center served four cou-nties: at Fiji's sand court tentatively Delta brother who was fatally Schenectady, Schoharie, on the seventh or eighth injured this summer by a .Fulton, and Montgomery. The weekend af spring: term. drunken driver. All Greeks will Center provides a 24 bout ' A sorority tournament will be be encouraged to attend, and :the hotlipe and confidential crisis held on Firday aftetooon, with school administration will also counseling by appointment. In each house entering one team. be invited to the presentation. addition, they se;rve to inform The fraternity tourmment will Andelman hopes the crisis victims of medical, legal, be ·held all day Saturday and tournament will be well and psychologial aspects of Sunday, and will co:nsist of no · covered by the school . sexual assault. In 1989, the more than 32 teams• In order to newspaper and the radio ·. Center aided 1,282 crisis enter .the tournament, every station, and that WRUC will victims within the four house will be aske(f to give a broadcast portions of the counties. They sponsored 119 clieck made out to 5chenectady tournament live. He has also • educational programs that : Big Bro.thers and B.ig Sisters. discussed with the Big Brothers -·reached an audience of 3,018. • The check 'Should equal one . and Big Sisters the possibility The Crisis Center is staffed dollar for the total number of of bringing in a T.V. station to with trained volunteers. In 1 members and pledges in that get footage of the tournament 1989 there were 29,3i 7 hours house. (60 members and 20 and the presentation of the · of volunteer work. In pledges would mean an 80 donation. Schenectady, there is an dollar check.) Hollses wishing Andelman and Fiji have average of 40 calls per month. to enter more than one team offered to do almost all of the In addition to receiving may do so by additional entry work. All that is requested is emergency calls, the Center fees. There will be trophies for that every house collect one will counsel victims of past champions and rullller-ups. dollar from every member for a incidents. The Panhellenic A mailing will go out to all very worth charity, and that Council encourages all Union Union College Gre:ek alumni every house represent itself at students to support the Rape · and the parents of Ulldergraduate the tournament. However, if Crisis Center by attending students asking for donations anyone would like to help with tonight's Cabaret. to Schenectady Big Brothers the mailing it would be greatly and Big Sisters. Ir~dependents appreciated. This event will are also welcome to make bring the Union Greeksagrcat contributions to s11pport this deal of positive publicity along charity. The letter will explain with a fun weekend. Just as that Union College is a school importantly, it will allow us 10 with a strong Gre~k tradition help an extremely worthwhile and a school that continues to benefit from Greek life. The local charity. letter will proceed to explain Andelman hopes that the that this tournament is being whole campus will participate, coordinated as a means of . and help to make the AqMBAdeg.:ee that ~ves you. a degree of expenence. showing the school tournament a big success. administration the .()ften under- Checks should be directed to publicized positive aspects of Dave Andelman, 386-4151, Greek life. Box #34 and made out to Schenectady Big Brothers and Schenectady Big Brothers and Big Sisters will bring several Big Sisters. ~en The Northeastern Co-op MBA program enables you to earn your degree in just 21 months and still earn money for your educatim.t-pai.d professional work experience is an integral part of the curriculum. Northeastern University, one of the country's leaders in cooperative education, has offered this outstanding educa- tional option to MBA candidates for over 20 years. The Co-op MBA program begins in June and January. Application deadlines are April15 and November 1; respec- tively. For details, return the coupon below. r-~-----------------------, 1 Yes, I'd liketo find out more about a Northeastern Co-op MBA degree. Send to: 1 I . Graduate School of Business Administrat. ion, 205 Hayden Hall, Northeastern I' . University, 360 Huntington Ave., Boston, MA02115. I ~- . I I I I ~~ I 1 City State Zip I I Northeastern University is an.equal opportunltylaffiimative action employer. The College of Business I I Administration is accredited by the American ASSI;lmbly of. Collegiate Schools of BusineSs. 1 1 QJ Northeastern University I I. + you give blood you give another b.irt1lcla¥ 2nother.rumiversary, another laugh, another hug, another chance. Am.erican.Red.Cross Please gjve blood. Bloodm!Qbiles are being held at Old Chapel from 1l :30 to 5:30 p.m. on the following dates: Wedne~y. February 21, 1990 Sponsor.~up: Theta Delta Chi Contact poerson: Brendan Clifford 386-4105 ·Thutsdar, February 22, 1990 Sportsorgroup: Psi Upsilon Contact person: Nick Baratoff 3·86-4307 Friday, F-ebruary 23, 1990 Sponsol'group: Delta Gamma Contactperson: Amy Joslin 386-4373 Also do11ors can stop by Room 408, College Center to sign up for bloodmobiles.

Page 4 · CONCORDIENSIS, February ·ts;-·1990 Concordiensis Congratulates Freshmen Representatives Ne'il Kanterman Sec r eta r y /Tr e as u r e·r Karen Hurwitz Pr·esident Flashers Problemati~c For Campus Security Continued from page 1 Norc of the tllrcc suspects drawn up, and will soon be have been apprc;hcnded yet. circulated in an attempt to get Security,. in resJJonse to the leads on the cases. John incidents, has a-dded extra Kotraba, the Assistant Director patrols to increase tile safety of of C a 111.pu s Security, the campus. Also, composites commented that anyone who of the suspects have been witnesses any suspicious behavior should call Security immediately with a full description and path of travel. The full cooperation of the victims will give Security a better opportunity to apprehend the suspects in these cases. Wo.men's Studies Courses, Spring 1990 The following courses count toward the Women's Studies Interdepartmental Major at Union College: Anthropo[()gy 50: Sex. Roles in Ttrh 1:30-3:20 French 14-2: History 38: Psychology 24: Psychology 3 8: Psychology 140: Psychology 167: Sociology 41: Comparative Perspective Women in French Literature Women in Modem Eur()pe Soci41 Psychology Developmental Psycb.ology Sem:inarin Adolescence Human Development Domestic Violence MWF 1:10-2:15 MWF 1:10-2:15 T!Th 1:30-3:20 T{Th 9:30-11:20 T{fh 1:30-3:20 T/Th 9:30-11:20 T{fh 9:30-11:20 Evans Legros Vice ... Pres id,e nt Resident Advisor Selection 1990-91 Pick up an application and other information at the Residence Life Office or your nearest Area Coordinator's Office. RPPL ·1 CRTlON DEADLINE: FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16th Gone, But Not· Forgotten. The passenger pigeon. The heath hen. The labt'ador duck. The Carolina parakeet. The list of e:Jrt:inct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is · working to save endangered species. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation, 1412 16thStreet,NW;Washlngton; DC 20036-2266. Working for the Nature of Tomorrow,.. NATIONAL WI.LDLIFE FEDERATION I ' i \ •I j I i

J.A.P. Baiting: Ethnic Slur or Harmless Fun? Speaker: Professor Gary Spencer from Syracuse · University When: Sunday, February 18, 1990 at 1 :00 P.M. Where: College Center AuditQrium Co-Sponsored by the Jewish Student Union & The Office of Residence Life A STREETCAR NAMED DE.SIRE Monday, February 19 ·g & lOPM CC Auditorium Bagels and other refreshments provjded by KOA.CH , Admission: $1 sponsored by the film committee • • Pro-Choice Meetings EVERY MONDAY 5:30pm in CC409 Ali faculty, students and staff · are invited to join ~s for discussion and information session. Newcomers always welcome! • ' . • t. . ' . ' To the Union College . -· Community: Thursday, February 15 ' 4:·00 College Ce,nter The Limits o.f legal Reform in Resolving Emplqyment Inequalities ·- Dr. Lynn E. Zimmer Sponsored by Women's Studies Reception Following $ • DIALING FOR DOLLARS COME TO THE STUDENT PHONATHON FEBRUARY 18, 19, & 20, 1990 5:30 .. 6:30 REFRESHMENTS 6:30 - 9:;30 CALLfNG $

P:age 6 CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 FEATURES Goin' South: Part II By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. When last we left our hero, he was drowning ~is sorrows in a fine mug of Williamsburg Itootbeer. We now join up wit:h hiQl again after a most horrible drive from his ancient city to a glimmer of Jight. One thing led to another. My sisters went on the offensive :by attacking me and always got away from \The Law\ by using what I think is the fallacy of \appealing to common belief' (i.e. it was my fault - go figure). Fortunately, the cloud s.oon lifted - we arrived at Busch ·Gardens. I insisted.on a moment of sHence before we entered. Shortly after completing a prayer of thanks, 1 realized that I, along with countless other kids, had been utterly duped. God had made me short (an offence I forgave my parents of about five years later), and the only rides I could use were those intended for little girls with balloons tied to lheir wrists. Ripped off and pissed off, a boy of ten I was. How I still hate those wooden animal$ with a hand outstretched to measure height. To make it worse, I now had 1110 bargaining power with my 'Parents. If I whined, they might feel sorry and bag Disney Wodd, which would have been the end-all. I realized then what is meant by drastic times call for drastic measures. Against my will, I allied with my little sister upon threat of murder. \Loose Lips Sink Ships, dude,\ It was with this hope that Mickey (and Minnie for you, sis! Get it?) would be saved. Charleston and South of the Border were next. Fort Summner was fun because you took a boat out to it and it was still left in organized disarray. kind of like my room at home (I know exactly where everything is!}. Plus, I found out that Abner ])oubleday fought there, of which I am still eternally grateful. Any man who could fight in a war and invent Baseball is at least as smart as Tom Jefferson, who owned slaves and had a monument made of him. The Mexican experience was a fiasco and disaster. I remember the signs: Fifty miles, Twenty Miles, ten, five, one, three-quarters ....... enough! This South of the Border place must have been so cool! Oh, but Songs of Innocence and Experience. When we got there, at about 11 p.m., the food was all yucky (through the time of day probably had ••••••••••••••••••••• \Come join the Cabaret ... '' P ANHELLENIC CABARET THURSDAY, FEBRUARY the 15th at 9 pm in the Old Chapel Admission fee: $2.00 *Refreshments will be served for more information please contact: Leslie Ross- 393-7413, or box #1859 PROCEEDS DONA TED TO THE SCHENECTADY RAPE CRISIS CENTER Sponsored by the Panhellenic Council -:-~ & ~- 11 r- CABARET '90- r <!> B- ~ & T- ··················*** little to do with it}, my father wouldn't 'let me have fireworks, and some fat guy who smelt like rubbing alcohol (I have since learned that this smell is really booze) .spat on my Zips. ' 1 Let's get the show on the road, dude (B. Simpson, 1990)\ was the general concensus. I really don't remember Disney World that well, other than ·I got shafted by the \Height Guy\ again and the parade was the best part. It didn't matter, though, because I told my friends I went on Space Mountain anyway. As for the parade, the closest thing I can compar~ it to is a thousand points of light. That was Disney World. The ride ·home was less than adventurous. All's I can say for it is that there are about ten miflion of those little green . signs with a bunch of sequential numbers on them from Florida to Georgia. After that I lost count. Besides, the alliance with my little sister alliance was null and void. She and I resumed our war, from which I was gang attacked by The Big Four - Moin (Churchill), Dad (Stalin), Big Sis (FOR), and Middle Sis (DeGaulle). I was of course innocent, all's I wanted was justifiably mine (by age). Needless to say, I have been emotionally scarred for life as a result.. In retrospect, the trip was a lot of fun, and really gave me a lot to think about in' the days to come. I finally found out what \culture\ was, and it wasn't that bad. Too bad I've forgotten already. As we grow to old to play and dream, we turn to less noble ways of \culturing\ ourselves. One of the good things, I guess, is being able to look back, and remember, how innocent we once were. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). All rue. welcome to attend. Sch~dule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & F·RIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:00 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30 PM CHINESE 2:00 PM JAPANESE 3:00PM RUSSIAN 4:00 PM News programs are also transmitted from many other countries and will be recorded upon request. Faculty are welcome to borow tapes. Ordinruily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. For more information, call Carol ~nyder, Language Lab 'f'echnician. X6216. · LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY-FRIDAY 8:30AM - 4:30PM ' SUNDAY-THURSDAY 7:00 PM -lO:OOPM • • The Wi.nners Courtesy of Public . Relations Three Union College students wer.e winners in the College's fifth annual public speaking competition held Feb. 2. They are Daniel J. Feldman of BrookLyn, first place; Nancy A. Conway of Albany, second; and Thomas· R. Fallati of Loudonville, third. Feldman, a sophomore, is the son of Leonard and ElinQr Feldman of 8417 Ft. B:amilton Parkway, Brooklyn, and a 1988 gradute of Poly Prep Country Day School, Brooklyn. Conway, a senior majoring in civil engineering, is the daughter of Joyce Chapman of 205 Colonial Ave., Albany, and a 1986 graduate of Albany High School. F~ llati, a sopilom.;0re majQ-ring in law and public policy, is the son of George and Mary Fallati of 15 Bethwood Drive, Loudonville, and ·!1. 1988 graduate of SbakeJ; High School, Colonie. H.e is enrolled in a six-year Union College-Albany Law School program leading to a bachelor's degree frotn Union and a law degree from Albany Law. Tlle three students competed against 35 other contestants in the preliminary round$ and 12 in the finals. In the finals, each student picked a quotation from a hat and had 30 seconds to examine it before giving a three·minute impromptu speech on it. A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE Monday, February 19 8 & lOPM CC Auditorium Admission: $1 sponsored by the film committee 1989-90 SPRiiNG TERM PRESCHEDULING PROCEDURES ?rescheduling materials will be available at the Registrar's Office beginning FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 16. Students should review the course listing, consult with. their adviser. and select the courses they wish to take. It is advisable for students to have additional choi.ces in mind in the event one or' more of their !irs.t three courses is unavailable. TO PRESCHEDUL.:E, EVERY STUDENT IS REQUIRED !f'O HAVE THEIR ADVISER SIGN THEIR PRESCHEDULING FORM. IF THE ADVISER ·IS UNAVAILABLE, STUDENTS SHOULD CONSULT WITH THE CHAIRMAN OF THEIR MAJOR DEPARTMENT. Some courses are available only with the permission of the department. These are referred to as \list .. or \card\ courses, and are so indicated on the course listing by an asterisk(*). Lists for these courses will be posted by the departments on WEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 21. Stude:nts should sign these lists to indicate an interest and then return to the department on FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 23 to find out whether or not th~y have been admitted to the course. Those admitted to a list course must gE}t a reservation card from the department You are permitted to. pick up no more than three {3) c:ards. PLEASE NOTE: CARDS NOT PICKED UP BY 4:30 p.m. 0 N MONDAY, FEBRUARY 26 WILL BE GIVEN TO THE NEXT PERSON ON THE WAIT LIST. NOONE WILL BE ALLOWED TO PRESOHEDULE FOR A. \LIST\ COURSE Wl'tHOUT A CARD. Only these caurses require permission cards.. · Th~ date and time .for ech student's appointment is printed <lnthe label o.f their prescheduling form. Students may not preschedule. earlier than their assigned time. However they may come any time AF.TER.their appointment time if their schedule permits. PRESCHEDUUNG WILL CONCLUD.E ON FRIDAY, MARCH 2. Additional course changes may next be made during the \drop/add\ period at Registration in April at OLD CHAPEL, 1st floor. Students will be admitted to Whitaker House at the time printed an their prescheduling form. Once inside, they should verify that the courses they have chosen are not closed. If one or more cou~ses are closed, they should s.elect new ones and correct their preregistration form. They.should then see a staff member in the Registrar's Office who wilpreschedulethern, . StiJdentS ··who do not .Plan to re'turn· to Union for the Sprin~ term shollld notifV the DEAN OF $TUDENTS OFFICE immediately. SWdents who will be on a Union College term abroad for . the Spring· tern1 do not need to preschedole their c()urses. Spring term course prescheduling will taj(e:plac.e from NONDAY, · FEBIIUARY 26 thru THURSDAY, MARCH 1 in the Registrar's Clfficein Whitaker House. · · ·- pl fe S(

CONCORDf.ENSlS, February JS, 1'990 Page 7 FEATURES Rolling Stone Recognizes Journalistic Talent At Union College Christine Hong !B9 By SUZANNE SHAKER Features Editor It's nice to see your name in print, it's a feeling of pdde, a feeling of accomplishment, it's something s:p.ecial, but when your name is foHowed by, \selected as a semifinalist in Rulling Stone's 1989 college journalism contest\ that's an honor, that's impressive, ttiat is something to really stop and think about. February 16, 1990 ~.1:0(} p.m. - until _This pa~t October Christime Hong, a 1989 Union graduate and former editor-in-chief of C o il co r d i e n s i s was recogui2;ed by Rolli11g Stone f():r her article published in the Feb1uary 29, 1989 issue of CoiHcordiensis, \Andy Warhol: A. Retrospective\. The article was written by Ti11a - after seeing the Warhol exhibit at The Maseum of Modem Art in New '{ork last year .. The article was submitted :to the Entertaimtu~mt Reporting category cf the contest. The two other categories are General Reporting and Ess~ys and Criticism. Although !ina majored in economics at Unio11 she has a strong interest in the arts and took many art history classes while at Union. Her keen i11terest in art is reflecte<J. in the article. Tina generally wrote news relatefl articles fc1 Concordiensis. It i:s therefo1e especially impressive that slle chose to submit an article i11another area, \I thiJlk it's ironic that over 90% of my contributions were news ; . articles or weekly editorials, yet I was recognized for an article in a department that I had only contributed to a handful of times.\ Tina admits that she spent a little more time than usual on this article. Obviously the extra effort paid off. Tina is now attending law school at Boston College. The work load and pressures of law schoo.l leave her little time to herself let alone spare time in which to write. The journalistic experience Tina gained through her involvement in Concordiensis is a valuable tool she will always cary with her. \Concordiensls is an exceptional student newspaper and has a history of tradition at Union that knows no rival. (In fact, it is the oldest newspaper still in print in the Capital area.) Staff submissions to Rolling Stone, etc., at the very least, promote Coucordiensis and Union. Furthermore, national recognWon reinforces our superiority in the No~east as a college newspaper as well as insu'lates Concordiensis' tradition as the campus news source .. \ It is obvious that Tina is still incredibly proud of Concordiensis. Tina encourages oilier writers to enter student journalism contsts, \If anything I hope this article prompts more students to enter national journalism competitions in fue future. There were many outstanding articles published last year that, unfortunately, their authors aever submitted. If they had they also would have received recognition.\ You still have time to enter the fifteenth annual Rolling Stone college journalism competition. Entries must be submitted by June 1, 1990. All entries must have been written by a full or part time student during the academic year between April 1, 1989 and April l, 1990. For more information ori the contest contact: Rolling Stone College Journalism Competition, 745 5th Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10151. Maybe Tina has set a tren<l for many more Union College students to become nationally recognized for their jouranlistic talents. The Human Relations Committee 1989-1990 B:v DESMOND WARD Features Editor The Human Relations Committee is a group of · representatives from academic, administrative, and service departments, and the staff association, with the Director of Personnel and an Affirmative Action officer as ex-officio members. The . committee tries to identify current concerns and to plan and carry out programs of recognition as well as other employee-oriented activities. The committee serves as a . communications link between staff and administration. Specific functions of the Human Relations Committee are 1) to identify, analyze, and communicate current concerns of the adminis~rative and Current Members for 1989· 1990 are: Administrative Unda Jorgensen Ou)n Kaplan TIIIlPorter Academic James Meyer Marianne Snowden Physical Plant I Security BrianFlahive DanFuinl) Mfu:Hilton Joe O'CoiUior Dining; Services Joe DiCarlo Lorraine Jankowski Theresa Viva Schaffer Library Claudia CapirommiJio lane Morse Staff.Associalion Cbannain Milchcll Affirmative AcdOO Diane\'irmlcler PersOilllcl Oto~sc Rkhiii'Cis ...- .... hourly staff to the coHege administration; 2) make recommendations as to how identified problems may be resolved; 3) plan and carry out programs of recognition and other activities for college employees; 4) serve as a communications link and sounding board for the general administration and non- academic staff. The committee confronts issues such as a formal type of orientation committee for new employees, wage increments, job postings, and health insurance cost for employees. Some topics discussed are related to students such as the organization of the College Center, the organization and success of Cabaret, vandalism, the bookstore, and topics related to the functioning and activities of the campus. Grnduate Studies 6295 Financial AM 612.3 College Bookstore 61&8 OfficeofCompuwxSe~~ 6293 Philosophy Department 6376 Physical Plant 6181 Physical Plant 6181 Sc:curity and Safety 6358 Security and Safety 6358 Dutch Honow Pub 6051 Dining Services Office 6036 Rathskelll!r 6124 Schaffer Library 6629 Schaffer Library 6237 Student Loans 6039 TctccOGII'riunlcations 6411 S~HaD 6108 .

Page 8 CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES The French Club will be showing Quatre Cent Coups (Four Hundred Blows) in French with English subtitles Mon., Feb. 19 at 8 p.m. cc 406 All are welcome - admission isfree LANGUAGE TABLES Mondays: French; Hebrew, Russian - 12:30-1:30 Tuesdays: Chinese, Italian 12:30-1:30 Wednesdays: German, Japanese, Spanish 12:30-1:30 HELP II We need Hosts for Scholars Wee.kend March 1-2 Free Dinner Call Admissions x6112 This Week in the·World Nelson Mandela's freedom march Nelson Mandela is free at last. After 27 years, he walked out of prison and then promptly urged his supporters at home and · abroad to increase their pressure against the white Government. The President spoke to Mr. Mandela by telephone and invited him to visit the White House. Quotation of the Day · \We have waited too long for our freedom. We can wait no longer.\ --Nelson Mandela James Baker visited . Romania, meeting with leaders of the Council of National Salvation. He said the U.S. would: give Bucharest $80 milliolil worth of cattle feed and 'butter, but more aid would. depend on free elections. The commander of the contras has been removed from his post by younger officers, according to rebel radio reports and American diplomats. An aid plan for Panama was passed by the House and Senate. The $42 million package would also lift numerous trade sanctions that had been imposed to pressure General Noriega. Proof that immigrants . • are Jewish is unnecessary,· s~y Israeli legislators. who . · called on the Interior Ministry to cltarige . its regulations for Jews from ·the Soviet-Union. News analysis: Mikhail . · Gorbachev, 1ike President Bush, ·cannot veto the reunification .of Germany, . · 'Which increasingly seems · inevitable.. but he still can shape it. Soviet Community Party • leaders agreed tD surrender . the party's historic. monopoly of power and • accept a program that recommends the creation of a Western-style presidency and cabinet ~Y stem of . :government. News analysis.: The . Party of Soviet Communists is not likely to dissolve any time .soon. It has deep roots · in the Soviet Union'.s · psychology and system of power, a fracture opposition . and the strategic prowess of President Gorbachev. Quotation of the Day \There will be a multip.arty system. There will be. a normal democracy.'' --Svyatoslav Fyodorov, .. a Soviet surgeon. who was a participant in the Central Committee meeting: in Moscow. Courtesy of the New York Times A STREETCAR NAMED. DESIRE Monday, February 19 8 & lOPM CC Auditorium Admis-sion: $1 sp.onsored by the _film committe~

Page 8 CONCORDJENSIS, February 15, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES 1. What's the highest mounta]n ln::t.fils'~(;ps? , ... ,.-.- :: 2. What imperialist country found a lot of Kenyans revolting in the 1960's? 3. What European political upheaval is considered the first of modern revoltulon? 4. What future Russian .emigree wrote a highly critical letter to the Fourth Congress of Soviet Writers dated May H3t 1967? 3. What European country produces Baccarat Crystal? .. 6. What long serving monarch was the first British sovereign to live in Buckl'ngham · Palace? · 7. What's the most populous Spanish speaking country? 8. What's the third letter .of the Greek · '· - alphabet?· 9. What sea lies between Vietnam· and the' · Philippines? · · 10. What work~s last line provides the .famed slogan, ••workers of the worldt un;lter' OlS&!!USV\j lS!UnWWOO Sttl ·o ~ eas eu!t.tQ tnnos ettl ·a EWWS€)\9 O::l! XBV\4 \/.. 'E!!JO\O!A uaano '9 eoueJ;:J'S UJ\SliVfilZIOS Jepuex:~JV .·v UO!lnt<>Ae~ tfOUaJ;} ~ql '~ l;i!'$IP8;;e · ... The French Club will be showing Quatre Cent Coups (Four Hundred Blows) in French with English subtitles Mon., Feb. 19 at 8 p .. m .. cc 406 All are welcome- admission is free LANGUAGE TABLES Mondays: French, Hebrew, Russian- 12:30-1 :30 Tuesdays: Chinese, Italian 12:30-1 :30 Wednesdays: German, Japanese, Spanish 12:30-1 :30 HELP!! We need Hosts for Scholars Weekend March 1-2 Free Dinner Call Admissions x6112 This Week in the World Nelson Mandela's freedo:m march · Nelson M~tndela is free ' at last. After 27 years, he walked out of prison and then promptly urged his supporters at home and · a broad to increase their · pressure against the white Government. The President spoke to Mr. Mand~la by telephone . and invited him to visit the White House. Quotati()n of the Day \We have waited too long for our freedom. We can wait no longer.\ --Nelson Mandcla James Baker visited Romania, meeting with leaders of the Council of National Salvation. He said the U.S. would give Bucharest $80 million worth of cattle feed and butter, but more aid would depend on free elections. The commander of the contras has been removed from his post by younger officers, according to rebel radio reports and American diplomats. An aid plan for Panama was passed by the House and Senate. The $42 million package would also lift numerous trade sanctions that had been imposed to pressure General Noriega. Proof that immigrants, are Jewish is unnecessary, say Israeli legislators, who called on the Interior Ministry to change its regulations for Jews from the Soviet Union. News analysis: Mikhail Gorbachev, like President Bush, cannot veto the reunification of Germany, which increasingly seems inevitable, but he still can shape it. Soviet Community Party leaders agreed to surrender . the party's historic monopoly of power and . accept a program that recommends the creation of a Western-style presidency and cabinet system of goverrunent. News analysis: The Party of Soviet Communists · is not likely to dissolve any time soon. It has deep roots in the Soviet Union's psychology and system of power, a fracture opposition and the strategic prowess of President Gorbachev. Quotation of the Day \There will be a multiparty system. There will be a normal democracy.\ --Svyatoslav Fyodorov, . a Soviet surgeon who was a participant in the Central Committee meeting in Moscow. Courtesy of the New York Times A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE Monday, February 19 8 & lOPM CC Auditorium Admission: $1 sponsored by the film committee

•'~ I~ By MEG PARSONS 'How was it?' 'Was it great?' 'Won't you tell me all about it?' These are a few of ~he quetions I was faced ~ith when I returned after four months in Japan. Sure, it'& easy to describe Shrines,. &ushi and surnq, but when I tried to explain more deeply how itfelt to be there 1 was at a lo~s. It seems my experience iii O:Salca was an oxymoron, I loved it, but I bated it. I guess the .only way you can imagine it is if you've gone to Mars for a while. When you first get there you say, oh we're not that diffe.rent, this isn't so hard! What's every body making such a big deal about? They you tty to g(} to a restamant and buy a meaL Not only do Martians speak Martianese, they eat Martian food and it's ·either eat Martianese or go hungry. So you decide . to try so-me M.artianese food. Food is food, right? But how do you order when every menu is writwn in Martia.nese which you Cailnot begin to read!? Fortun3tely Martians are pretty used. to Earthling visits (alth()ugh you'd nev:er know it fo1 the amount they stare) and they have plas,tic food showing what's- cookin' in the wi!ld.ow. However, try to get the Martian waitress who does not understand English to ()Ome outside and look at the J>lastic models of what you and your 12 friends (there's safety in numbers) want to eat. When you finally get some food which is never quite as pretty as the plastic stuff, you've got to pay. Obviously Martians don't use dollars, everybody wants to pay only for what they ordered and Martian money works in denomi~r.ions of thousands-- y<Jur mea:l cost 650, how many dollars'?.~. You walk down the street after your meal, you don 1 t realize at first those \cute little side streets\ are actually- main Martian roads upon whkh they zoom on the opposite sitle of the road than we do at :home. You and your friends must walk single file in order not to get hit by one of these crazy drivers. As part of yoru program you go to live with a Martian family-- h,ow interesting, how cultural, how exciting! How difficult. The Martian houses could fit two or three times into your own home on Earth, the stairs are as steep as ladders, Martians don,'l have central heat, many don•t have chairs or furniture, none have toilets which work the sarne as the ones on Earth do, Martian CONCORDIENSlS, February 15, 1990 Page 9 / INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Back From Mars shate bath water and sleep on the floor, Hmmmm ... you're challenged, but you're tough, you can deal witll it, after all it's .clean, right? After you settle in you're called down to dianer. Martian cuisine is an acquired taste and they eat with long sticks. They slurp their soup and eat rice Martian cuisme is an acqui:t:ed taste and tbey eat with long sticks • . . with every meal including spaghetti.. You understand these creatures have very different customs and you want to do your besuo fit in. You take your shoes off. in the house, you .slurp your soup with the best of them, you pretend to understand Martian TV and you quickly adjust to sitting on the floor. All the while you're thinking about your return to Earth, how nice and comfortable it will seem compared to this strange planet, little do you know the Martians are having an effect on you. Inside~ slowly but surely, you're beginning to adjust to the traditions and customs which: seemed so strange at first. You're beginning to ac:cept the fact that Martians Bever ask the question why and if you do, you know they'll never tell you. Your get used to hearing, \Itcannot be helped,\ and \it is the Martianese way,\ as a perfectly reasonable response to your constant questioning. At times, th.e frustration level gets pretty high, the Martianese way just doesn't always make sense to a human. This is especially true in the case of conveniences; public transportation closes down at midnight, automatic teller machines close at the same time the banks close, blowing your nose is rude, spitting is fine. The result is often confusion! Martians also appear to be incredibly insecure. The way they deal with insecurity is the opposite from how we deal with it on Earth. We bluff, we act as if we don't care. We're fine, nothing makes us uncomfortable, let's just deal with everything in a straightforward manner. Martians would rather cut off their tails than say no, they cover their mo11ths when they laugh, they giggle, they smile , when they're angry, they won't look at you in the eye, and they have everyday phrases which mean, \please forgive my rudeness, but my simple thought ,js this ... \ Martians also love to make dates. When you meet a Martian don't expect him to accept \see you later\ when you part. Everyone must pull out of their appointment books and sche<iule the next time they'll meet again. No Martian would ever think .of dropping by another Martian borne unannounced or uninvited. If you want to bring another Earthling into your Martian home after school or for the afternoon that's fine. But, this cannot just happen when you feel like it, Martians must be warned well in advance if you want to do something like this. Never SurJ>rise a Martian, they don't react well to it. Also, if you've been entertained in a Martian home you must call to thank them, mention their hospitality several times afterwardand you really should send a gift if they made you a meal. Martians love doing things with Earthlings, especially in public-- you quickly realize how it feels to be a pet. They show you off with pride, but don't want to deal with your nasty habit of asking why, something you as an Earthling you still find annoying. Many Martians are very boring. They don't want to hear anything negative about Mars or Earth. They are not good conversationalists and often become nervous when you try to lead a conversation. Needless to say, you suffer through a lot of silence with Martians. However, there are many things which make you glad you took your trip to this bizarre planet. When you meet some cool ones, Martians are the best creatures, they'll do anything for you simply out of friendship. If you start out doing right by them, they'll trust you forever, you find you've created an eternal bond. They'll feed you great / Martianese food (your taste changes during your stay and the food gets better all the If you show loyalty to them • . • they'd fight for you to the death time), they'll drink with you 'til you drop and pay for your cab ride home. Or if worse comes to worse, they'll put you up at their house since any room is a bedroom with the traditional fold-up beds on whatever they can to make sure you're comfortable. They can be truly wonderful. During your stay. all at once it will hit you. Your skin has not turned green, you've grown no tail, no outward physical evidence of Martian-hood shows on your body, but you know a change has taken place. As hard as you've fought it, you've become a little bit Martian. Your friends who've never been to Mars will not understand .. You try to explain- - but it's Mars and it's weird and backwards and uspide down. People from Earth won't understand when you say, I hated it, but it was great. They won't get it when you say you miss that silly place with all those moronic Martians, Mars. If you show loyalty to them and their organization (Martians love to be organized, they live for' their college, club, and company), they'd fight for you to the death. They'll share whatever they've got with you, show you their National Treasures and do zooming around on their narrow roads living in their tiny houses and speaking that confusing language. But there's a little Martian living inside of you now. And that's how it feels to be there. Yes sir. Feb .. 27, 28 Mar. 1 ,2,3 8:p1~1 Matinee - Mar. 3, 2:pm Nott Memorial Theater Box Office 370-6153

CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 P .age 9 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES By MEG PARSONS 'How was it?' 'Was it great?' 'Won't you tell me aU about it?' These are a few of the quetions I was facecl with when I retun1.ed after four months in Japan. Sure, it's easy to describe shrines, sushi and sumo, but when I tried to explain more deeply how it fel;t to be there I was at a loss. It seems my experience in Osaka was an oxymoron, I loved it, but I hated it. I guess the only way you can imagine it is if you've gone to Mars for a while. When you first get there you say, oh we're not that different, this isn't so hard! What's every body making such a big deal about? They you try to go to a restaurant and buy a meal. Not only do Martians speak Martianese, they eat Martian food and it's ·either eat Martianese or go hungry. So you decide to try some Martianese food. Fooo is food, right? But how do you order when every menu is written in Martianese which you cannot begin to read!? Fortunately Martians are pretty used to Earthling visits (although you'd never know it for the amount they stare) and they have plastic food showing what's· cook.in' in the window. However, try to get the Martian waitress who does not understand English to come outside and look at the plastic models of what you and your 12 friends (there's safety in numbers) want to eat. When you finally get some food which is never quite as pretty as the plastic stuff, you've got to pay. Obviously Martians don't use dollars, everybody wants to pay only for what they ordered and Martian money works in deNominations of thousands-- your meal cost 650, how many dollars? ... You walk down the street after your meal, you don't realize at first those \cute little side streets\ are actually main Martian roads upon which they zoom on the opposite side of the road than we do at home. You and your friends must walk single file in order not to get hit by one of these crazy drivers. As part of your program you go to live with a Martian family-- how interesting, how culturaL how cxcning! How <1ifficult. The Martian houses L·ouid fit two or three times into your own home on Earth, the stairs arc as steep as ladders. Martians don't have central heat, many don't have chairs or furniture, none have toilets which work the same as the ones on Earth do, Martian share bath water a.11d sleep on the floor. Hmmmrn ... you're challenged, but y()u're toMgh, you can deal with it, after all it's dean, right? After you settle in you're caUed down to dinner. Martian cuisine is an acquired taste and they eat with long sticks. They slurp their soup and eat rice Martian cuisine is an acquired taste and they eat with long stkks . . with every meal including spaghetti. You understand these creatures have very different customs and you want to do your best to fit in. You take your shoes off in the house, you slufJl your soup with the best of them, you pretend to understand Martian TV and you quickly adjust to sitting on the floor. All the while you're thinking about your return to Eartll, how nice and comfortable it will seem compared to this strange planet, little do you know the Martians are having an effect on you. Inside. slowly but surely, you're beginning to adjust to the traditions and customs which seemed so strange at first. You're beginning to accept the fact that Martians ne-ver ask the question why and if you do, you know they\ll never tell you. Your get used to hearing, \It cannot be helped,\ and \it is the Martianese way,\ as a perfectly reasonable response to your constant questioning. At times, tfue frustration level gets pretty high, the Martianese way just doesn't always make sense to a human. This is especially true in the case of conveniences; public transportation closes down at midnight, automatic teller machines close at the same time the banks cl<Jsc, blowing your nose is rude, spitting is fine. The result is often confusion! Martians also appear to be incredibly insecure. The way they deal with insecurity is the opposite from hQw we deal with it on Earth. We bluff. we act as if we don't care. We're fine, nothing makes us uncomfortable, let's just deal with everything tn a straightforward manner. \1artians would rather ..:ut off their tatls than say no. they cover their mouths when they laugh, they giggle, they smtle when they·re angry, they won't look at you in the eye, and they have everyday phrases which mean, 'please forgive my rudeness, but my simple Write far, International Features ·· thought is this ... \ Martians also love to make dates. When you meet a Martian don't expect him to accept \see you later\ when you part. Everyone must puT! out of their appointment b0oks and schedule the next time they'll 111eet again. No Martian would ever think of dropping by another Martian home unannounced or uninvited. If you want to bring another Earthling in to your Martian home after sctool or for the afternoon that's fine. But, this cannot just happen when you feel like it, Martians must be warned well in advance if you want to do something like this. Never surprise a Martian, they don't react well to it. Also, if you've been entertained in a Martian home you must call to thank them, mention their hospitality several times afterward and you really should send a gift if they made you a meal. Martians love doing things with Earthlings, especially in public-- you quickly realize how it feels to be a pet. They show you off with pride, but don't want to deal whh your nasty habit of asking why, something you as an Earthling you still find annoying. Many Martians a.l'e very boring. They don't want to hear anything negative aboMt Mars or Earth. They ate not good conversationalists and often become nervous when you try to lead a conversation. Needless to say, yoN suffer through a lot of silence witll Martians. However, there are many things which make you glad you took your trip to this bizarre planet. When you meet some cool ones, Martians are the best creatures, they'll do anything for you simply out of friendship. If you start out doing right by them, they'll tmst you forever, you find you've created an eternal bond. They'll feed you great Martianese food (your taste changes during your stay and the food gets better all the lf you sh()w loyalty to them ..• they'd fight for you to tbe death time), they'll drink with you 'til you drop and pay for your cab ride home. Or if worse comes to worse, they'll put you up at their house since any room is a bedroom with the traditional fold-up beds on whatever they can to mak~ sure you're comfortable. 1'hey can be truly wonderful. During your stay, all at once it will hit you. Your sld n a as not turned green, you've grown no tail, no outward physical evidence of Martia11-h ood shows on your body, b11t you know a change has taken place. As hard as you've fougllt it, you've become a 1-iltle bit Martian. Your friends who've never been to Mars wi 11 not understand. You try toc:<..plaia- - but it's Mars and it's weird and backwards and !lSJlidc down. People from Earth woR't understand when yo11 sily, I hated it, but it was grcut. They won't get it when you say you miss that silly place ·with all those moronic Mm ti ans, Mars. If you show loyalty to them and their organization (Martians love to be orgmized, they live for r their college, clllb, and company), they'd fight for you to the death. They'll share whatever they've got with you, show you their National Treasures and do zooming around on their narrow roads living in their tiny houses and speaking that confusing language. But there's a little Martian living illside of you now. And that's now it feels to be there. Yes sir. . '• Feb. 27,28 Mar. 1,2,3 8:pn1 2:pn1 Matinee • Mar. 3, Noll Me1noriu1 Theater Box Office 370 .. 6153

Page 10 CONCORDlENSIS; February 15, 1990 INT'ERNA TION AL FEATURES 'A Grecian Poem Greet,ings fellow classmates ~ from Mediterranean Sands, Where the women all are pushy and the ''gentlemen\ all hands. Please excuse those of us who haven't written yet, we're busy buying sunblock and wiping beads of sweat. We beg of you to pity us and resist that jealous feel, for we're sttetching it a bit, although it's yet unreal. We're having so much fun, yet running out of time, Each of us, as you once knew, that's here, is in their prime. As recently expressed, to explain our current stunts, \We took a bong hit at the airport, to last us for three months.\ We climb the hillside daily and pray to mighty Zeus, \Please slow down the time, big guy .... to the otherG-ds: Yassous!\ \End the garbage strike and please help Kate tO score, and ask those crazy driving fools to run us down no more cuz ... \ Big Wheels, Monster trucks & funny cars, they're not,\ and keep 'Derricos' and Nancy from getting themselves shot. Help us write ou.r friends, in a way that they will know, What we all are doing and that we can't fathom snow.\ Answers to us, Zeus, \Start with Toher - your big Toe\ \If then he's not right fired, consult with your Presmo\ But we're not here to get him booted, just to give him grief, So we'll leave out the little child and his scanty fig leaf. He hosts ''Classics for Drachs,\ has no home and is the Miko King, He's doing it wrong if it doesn't hurt, ... that means anything. You may wonder now we know this and who would dare to ask, why, Natale, feeling \1HALVMA felt it was her task. Just as Tracy must go hippie, Rod, go public in Jim's Robe, Kristina must bake cookies, and we must call Bob - \Bobe.\ Professor Diament is a superhero, climbs hills w/single bound. Jumps fences & SCales walls, for sake of braking ground. He takes us to our destiny, the beach where we elate, \Crap!\ he says emphatically, we must excavate!\ So Johanna climbs the agora, with the cats in heat, and Mags is ditched by cabbies, put out in the street. Derrick sprained his ankle, became an Athens fad \Dereck in de Plaka\ and the dude in the crackers ad. He & Nancy act out Plato, do Laurel & Hardy, when night's deep, Give showtune Kenya entertainment &tumultuous sleep. Nance, Miss CYA, or Titsey, \as Greek says,\ Makes cash bummin' on Lakovitos, composes songs and plays~ She bushwacks up around the men indulging in self satisfaction, Lindsey take the path - encounters.all the action. Linds is always at the Ploughman, our happy hour rep, But there, folks expel, biofluids in her step. Since we've been in Athens, we've discovered don't's & do's \Remove Kenya's Orange Bra,\ don't try to count her shoes!\ We should dress modestly at museums and avoid the look .of slob Diament leaves his cape behind, so, No Hanes on your head, Bob. Cath.leave the metal-cladded bra behind, that triggers state fllann. And THsey, we can do without your ripping Levi charm. Oh - would someone write to Gorga, please remind this guy, There's a riddle equating death with sticking needles into one's eye? And that Greece is known, to be medically inept, Pete's eye, is one thing, that he's like to have kept. Nothing here is sac1ed and that's not being skeptical, Righteous Beth & Lara, calhhemselves \the lore receptacle. u Lara's smile is stuck as is - or else the girl's been gassed, and Cathy Lee gets in her \Shocking Mood\- implies a shady past. Alex doesn't buy thUs archaeological bol9gana, he'd rather sun and think Siesta, and eat Rod's macaroni. Kate's the periscopre 3 can spot hot men afar~ She's an 3;ddict of the manhunt, and nicotine and tar. The man all come in pairs, sbe says, \Who wants the otller Nikos?\ I'm busy with the Cl)stoses, can't handle all these Greekos! While she's taggina up, Dave takes his own stand, With a 12-year old im Actuels- His wish was her command. He attended a Bozooki, though he's no slave to tradition, Surround by folk dancers he did the \Egyptianrendition\ A memory and fate: brought a 70-buck revival When Kenya saw the taxi driver she had for her arrival) Nance assaulted him, & threatened, . .a \film chase\ then ensued, He refunded all the money and promised to be good. Michelle's the birthday gi:rl - with Liza Minelli hair, the striking mad beach-comber, finding treasure everywhere! Then there'.s masochistic Pete - to Aegean depths he swam, to get the ball, hey Pete - they didn't give a damn! Tracy's the Athenian Aerobics G-dess - she's really quite. ambitious, and Jim fears leprechauns, you know \Wonderfully Delicious?'' He's found a new religion, belief in rising from the Dead, He's a dancing fool whose liver's probably dangl'ing by a: thread. Sharon gets real \freaky'; when the bus gives her a whirl, She's nice & sweet, but give her booze, and she is \chango-girl!'' She was feeling rather stable, after our overnight breakfast bash, ' sprained her ankle on a mattress,- we're announcing it to BLAS:! African que~n Louise was our sacrifice to Poseiden, She then donned an iissued bedspread, that she used to hide in. Ron's adjusting sl()wly, without his pasta sauce, In class, it looks as t:hough. he's gonna do a cookie toss. Lisa's name means rabies, it rather fits her well, In \Arena Duel for Roses,\ she bit Nancy all to hell. Then there's George, the one man band, Armenian Dancing King, He can pay the drums, the sax, the hom - all .at once, and sing! He speaks Greek of Jackie-: though he knows not what it '!leans, He said you're married, babe, now isn't that the beans? . . We've been haggling, at the Plaka, buying suede and wool, Telling our own stories of the Acropolyptic BulL We've come to love \Jack's Toast\ and getting down at 1jini's Saying nonsense words to natives and wearing boots and minis. · One's been in the hospice, two on crutches, two with brace~ But hold off on grief, Toaster, just one bit in the face. Dear Professor Thomas, don't worry about the Doc, We feed him beer and pitas when we undo the lock. We'll all go out tonight, pay 60 cents for be~, and toast to all of you in long underwears. Yassous! We miss you! The Athens Term Abroad -

Page 11 ,SCIENCE .& TECHNOLOGY Problem of lhe Week . Fifth problem: Suppose n people are standing in a row and each sees only the people standing in front ef her or him. That is, the person at tbe back of the row can see n~ 1 pedple, the next person can see n,.. 2,. and so. . A collection of n- 1 blue hats and one red hat ~re distributed in any order to tnese--n people ..and each person puts on the hat g;iveiJ. him or her. Starting from the back of the row. each person is asked to answer the question, \Do you know the color of · · your hat?\ (Of course, every()ne knows there are n- I blue hats and one red hat. -everyone hears all the- · answere to the questions, and everyone answers truthfully.) Will the person with the red hat always be able to answer yes? Give reasons to support your answer. (Thanks to Benedikt Blunschi for suggesting this · problem.) Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the . Mathematics Department Office between the hours of 9 a.m. - 11 a.m and 2 p.m. - 4 p.m.,, Monday through Friday. The winneY ef the weekly $10 pnze will be selected randomiy fro:rn those who submitted correct solutions by 11 a.m. of the Monday after the problem has appeared in · Concordiensis. The name of the-winller and the names of all others who submit conect :Solutions will accompany the following week's pr!Qblem in the Concordiensis. Correci: solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. Step 386is 386SX 16MHz Processor 1MB Zero Wait State RAM 80MB Disk - 28MS Access VGA Monitor and Adaptef 2 Serial/1 Parallel Ports 5 1/4\ 1.2MB Floppy MS/DOS 3.3 On Site Maintenance \PC Editor's Choice'' - PC Magazine / \Top Rated\ -Personal Computing Magazine $2,689. Wl<h•'Jalld ScbooH'iotun: ID Calif<>< other c;oonaunoo .. SSI Software Solutions, Inc. Serving the C.pl)al Dl111trlcl Since 19:78 26ComputerDrlve East, Albany; NY1220S (518) 458-1860 A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE Monday, February 19 8& lOPM CC Auditorium Admission: $1 sponsored by the film committee UNDERGRADUATE SOM.MER RESEARCH FELLOWSHI:PS AVAILABLE Once again. Union College 'W.lll support an tJndergraduate summer research fellowship program which will allow students to work directly with a facult~ sponsor on a faculty research . project. This is the fifth year of the program, and we have enough funds from the colleg.a, the Dana, HUghes and surdna ' Foundations to award about 4(1 iellowships in all· areas of the · college. Summer students will receive free housing from the ' college as well as stipends of either $t500 or $2000, · depending on what type of felbwship is awarded: only students . . ,eligible for financlal aid can be awarded lhe $2000 stipend. · Students .from all areas of the college, along wmh their faculty sponsors,, are invited to aptply. Applieatio.ns and ·further information can be obtained fro·hl Professor Tobitessen in Room 8324, S&E Center. Oompletecl applications she~uld be handed in· to Professor Tobiessen by nCloi:l on Friday, Match 2nd, in the ninth week of the term. Awards ytill be announc:ed in the tenth week of winter term. Students graduating in Jwne, 1990, are not Eiliglbh:dor this program. - Survey Reveals Stron·g Co~ncern For Environment Amon,g Students Today's federation of college students, often maligned as materialistic · and socially disconnected, are actually deeply concerned about the environment. with 95 percent agreeing that Congress should pass tougher laws to protect the environment, and 94 percent wiHing to pay mor;e for products · that are environmentally safe, according to a new opinion survey commissioned by the. National Wildlife Federation (NWF} The survey was conducted in November 1989 by Hughes Research Gorp., a national research firm based in Rockville, Md. Five hundred undergraduate students between 17 and 24 years of age were surveyed. All were enrolled in a four-year college or university. Approximately one-half were male and one-half were female. Based on the sample size, the survey results can be considered accurate to within plus or minus five percentage points. Other key questions of the survey revealed strong sentiments on behalf of environmental quality: * Nearly 75 percent belie\e that recycling of newspapers, glasses, and cans should be required by Ia w in all communities. * While 66 percent believe that industry today is more concerned about environmental protection than it was five years ago, 76 percent believe that industry influence.s government w pass less effective environmental protection laws. And students take their environmental ·concerns into the voting booth, with more than 70 percent agreeing that environmental protection is important in electoral decisions. * Nonetheless, 80 percent believe that \aJl of us\ have primary responsibility for protecting the environment, with only 24 percent laying responsibility on the doorstep of the federal government \We are tremendously encouraged by these results,\ said NWF president Jay D. Hair. \College students are expressing a deep concern for the environment, and the overwhelming majority are clearly willing to do something about it.\ According to Tom Hughes of Hughes Research Corporation, \Given their intense concern for the environment and their willingne.ss to get personally involved in this issue. this survey paints the picture of American college students. as a fonnidable resource ready to go to work to help solve our environmental problems.\ Hughes Research Corporation was founded in 1988 by Thomas B. Hughes. With two decades of· experience, Mr. Hughes has conducted more than 2,000 individual survey research projects, and currently serves on the board of directors of the Marketing Research Association. The National Wildlife Federation is the nation's largest co'nservation organization, with more than · 5.6 million members and supporters and 52 affiliate organizations nationwide. A private, not-for-profit organization, the Federation was founded in 1936. Special Notice for all Sophomores, Juniors and Seniors This spring term, the College will be offering 5 courses that will count for .E Liberal Learning credit. Although F courses will be available through 1992, this is the last · term in which a variety will be offered at one time. As Gen Ed courses increase F credit courses will, of necessity, have to decrease. Biology Liberal Learning BIO 68 DNA & Genetic Engineering: Societal Impact Engineering Liberal Learning _ ELL 012 Homes, Buildings and Engineering Principles ELL 033 Energy I Philosophy PHL078 ·Technological Value~ Physics PHY049 Laser Technology & Modern Optics -COMING TO UNION APRIL 8th

Page 12 CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 <!!Jlltfllfbtrnsis _LE_TT_,_,.ER_s ___ \ \\\\·-~- ----Foun:ded at Union College 1877--- \Middlebury Is Not A Precedent The administrati01n of Middlebury College has demanded that its fr:aten1ities admit women or face losing their houses. In January, the trustees of Middlehu.ry voted on a set of residence life proposals that included the abolition of fraternities. However, two-thirds: of the students opposed such a plan, and S() tme College reconsidered. A compromise plan was offered requiring fraternities to indicate by Marcil~ 31 whether they would agree to become co-educational. This plan might seem alarming to Union students, Greeks 2.11d non-Greeks· alike, but the Middlebury plan shlould not serve as a precedent for Union or any other school because of the unusual circumstances surrounding the ac;tion. Two years ago~ one of Middlebury's six fraternities hung a female mannequin painted blood-red at its house during a party. Punitive actions were taken 31t the time. But the more lasting and not unjustifieci impression of fraternities as sexist \vas in place. The administration and the women called for thl.e abolition of Greek societies. All six of Middlebury's fraternities occupy campus-owned housing. Ten years ago, the fraternities owned their houses. But the buildings themselves were iru such a state of disrepair, that the only way to keep them from being condemned was for the College to purchase and repair them. Thus, it was throl!gh the irresponsibility of the fraternities that the College became their landlords. Also, at the time of the purchases, the fraternities agreed to go co-ed. While there are certainly less()ns to be learned from the Middlebury example, it does not apply to Union. The Adnnmstration's grip on fraternities (and sororities) at Union is not so strong, nor is there reason for it to be. The number of fraternities, the numb-er of Greek students, and the number of self-owned fraternity houses is far greater at Union that at Middlebury. The Greek system is an integral part of the campus at Union in a way that it is not at Middlebury. · At Middlebury, tbe administration had more than enough justificati()il for its actions as well as the ability to act against the fraternities. But the important thing to ifemember is that in all but the most extreme cases, independent student organizations must remain independent. Like any other student organization, part of the essence o,f a fraternity is its freedom to act individually and outside of the shackles of the Administration. Concordiensis would lose its meaning as the voice of the students if it were forced to reflect the wishes of the Administration in its reporting. An organization that is funded ~entirely by the students an<l services the students should remain the responsibility, primarilyf of the students. A fraternity, funded by its members and servicing the community, should as well remain the responsibility of the students. While fraternities do have their drawbacks, it is not up to others to determine how they should conduct themselves. No matter how wonderful or deplorable their conduct my be, suggestions for . change can be made, but demands for change cannot. Student Committee Has No Voice In Making Choice To the Editor: I was asked to be a member of a student committee whose function was to ev.al uate four candidates for a position in the English Department. The committee was made up of seven students, all of whom are English majors. The student committee based its decision on presentations given during lunch hours and .conferences in the afternoons with the candidates. The student comm.i ttee then rendered a unanimous decision in favor of a candidate who was clearly superior. We presumed that our opinion would be given at least some consideratimt but, when it met on the matter, the English Department flagrantly ignored our judgment by eliminating our chosert candidate on the first ballot (our choice was the English Department's last choice). Why did six of my fellow students an.d I waste (not spend) our valuable time playing this futile game? Had I known that our decision would be so callously disregarded, I would have spent my scarce free time doing. something at least remotely fruitful. I was under--:the impression that the purpose of an institution of higher learning was to provide the best education for \the students. To .achieve this goal, Union should hire the most qualified and the most talented faculty it cari assemble. The professor the s tud·ents preferred was by far the most qualified of the candidates. That is not by any means. to say that the other candidates were poor, but the students' choice gave a much better lecture, had more experience, and is publishing a book though a major publisher. None of the other candidates could boast of comparable credentials. Moreover, beyond his other qualifications, the candidate graduated Union summa cum laude. All things being equal, I would think a Union graduate would be gi ve11 preference in this sort of competition. However, all things were not equal; the Union alumnus was better qualified than the others and still he was not hired. It · seems the Union English Department does not have much respect for a Union education. · The one fear on the part of the student committee concerned the approachability · of the candidate beca11se his obvious intelligence and ability could intimidate students. This fear was quickly allayed in the conference after his :Lecture when he convincingly demonstrated a great deal of concern for the students and a desire to be available to them. Perhaps: the final decision of hiring a professor should be · made by an arbitrator ot sorts - possibly someone in the administration who caa make an unbiased decision utilizing the opinions of the English Department faculty and the student committee. That way a decision can be made without the unpleasantness of academic pol'itics interfering with the welfare of the students, which 1 believe is what happened in· this case. Sincerely, David J. Adinolfi ll lllllllllllllllrllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIUIUIIIIIIIUIUUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIII EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1400 16th Street NW. YVashington, DC 20036·2266 • IIIHIIIIIIIUIIIIUIIIIIIUIIIUUIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIUIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIUIIIIIIiiiiUIIIIIIIIIUII ALL LEITERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITIED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILLNOTBE ACCEPrED. Letters to the Editor do not ~ necessarily reflect the • Q opinions of the Editorial Board. \ .

Page 12 CONCORDIENSJS, February 15, 1990 (iLJlttfl)rbirnsis _LE_TT_ER_s ____ _ ----Founded at Union College 1877--- Middlebury Is Not A Precedent The administration of Middlebury College has demanded that its fraternities admit women or face losing their houses. In J anuruy, the trustee~ of Middlebury voted on a set of residence life proposals that included the abolition of fraternities. However, two-thirds of the students opposed such a plan, and so the College reconsidered. A compromise plan was offered requiring fraternities to indicate by March 31 whether they would agree to become co-educational. This plan might seem alarming to Union students, Greeks and non-Greeks alike, but the Middlebury plan should not serve as a precedent for Union or any other school because of the unusual circumstances surrounding the action. Tv~.·o Years al!.o, one of vtlddlebun·'s six fratl'rnit·i~_':-. hung ~1 f~.?m~lll' mannequin painted l\~lnc'd·rL'd ,\1 it-:. h11ll\l' durin~ a part::. Punith·e j :t,·til':l\ \'. t'r-.· t:tJ.~l·n :tt tlk' tinw. Hw th~ flll)f.__' b-;ting 1 ~lllll d:'l uniu~:i(i\·d irnprl'''-ilHl ~>f fr~Hl'fllllil' .... .!\ l ' ... ' \ ! -.. 1 \, , i \ n , r' L.1 -.·l·. T lll ~ 1 d nn n i -, t r a uun and t h t.' 1 l! 11 . \11 ..;ix ot \1iddkhury·s fraternities occupy campus-own~d housing. Ten years ago. the fraternities owned their houses. But the buildings themselves wer~ in such a state of disrepair, that the only way to keep them from being condemned was for the College to purchase and repair them. Thus, it was through the irresponsibility of the fraternities that the College became their landlords. Also. at the time of the purchases, the fraternities agreed to go co-ed. While there are certainly lessons to be learned from the Middlebury example, it does not apply to Union. The Admmistratwn's grip on fraternities (and sororities) at Union is not so strong, nor is there reason for it to be. The number of fraternities, the number of Greek students, and the number of self-owned fraternity houses is far greater at Union that at Middlebury. The Greek system is an integral part of the campus at Union in a way that it is not at Middlebury. At Middlebury, the administration had more than enough justification for its actions as well as the ability to act against the fraternities. But the important thing to remember is that in all but the most extreme cases, independent student organizations must remain independent. Like any other student organization, part of the essence of a fraternity is its freedom to act individually and outside of the shackles of the Administration. Concordiensis would lose its meaning as the voice of the students if it were forced to reflect the wishes of the Administration in its reporting. An organization that is funded entirely by the students and services the students should remain the responsibility, primarily, of the students. A fraternity, funded by its members and servicing the community, should as well remain the responsibility of the students. While fraternities do have their drawbacks~ it is not up to others to determine how they should conduct themselves. No matter how wonderful or deplorable their conduct my be, suggestions for change can be made, but demands for cltange cannot. l Student Committee Has No Voice In Making Choice To the Edit0r: I was asked to be a member of a student committee whose function wa.s to evaluate four candidates for a position in the English I>epartment. The committee was made up of seven sttlde111s, all of whom are English majors. The student committee based its decision on presentuions given during lunch hours and conferences in the aftemoons with the candidates. The student commiuee then rendered a unanimous decision in favor of a candidate who was clearly superior. We presumed that our opinion wotLid be given at least some consideration but, when it met 011 the maaer, the English Department flagrantly ignored our judgment by climinatin,g our chosen c andidatc Dn the first ballot (our choice was the English Department\:; last d10ict'l. Wh~ did \I\ of Ill\' fdlnw '~u~.km..: ami I \\~ht,· <Ihlt 'i{X'ntD •'l!r \'~tluahiL· ll!lk pi,Iyin~ tln-. i u: 1k ;::tn· , .. ' Had : ~ Th 'I' n that . • ! : r d :.' ·: 1 .... : l 'n \\ util d !\> ,. 'i\ ~ ~:lJ~_ '!l,]y ~,.!;:···TI,.\~~~tfth.~d. ! \\ ''tdd have spent my scarce free time doing something at teast remotely fruitful. I was u11der the impression that the purpose of an institution of higher leaming was to provide the best education for the students. To achieve this goal, Union should hire the most qualified and the most talented faculty it can assemble. The professor the students preferred was by far the most qualified of the candidates. That is not by any means to say that the other candidates were poor, hut the students' choice gave a much better lecture, had more experience, and is publishing a book though a major publisher. None of the other candidates could boast of comparable credentials. Moreover, beyond his other qualifications, the candidate graduated Union summa cum laude. All things heing equal, I would think a Union grsduate would t>e ).!iven prefcrcn:e in thi\ sort of cmnpctition. Ho'Acver. :tll thing-; w~rl· nllt l''-JUal; thl' l_; n llHl \tlumrHJ~ . ..,. as better quaE ftL'ti than the.: <lthcrs and stHI he was not hired. It seems the Union English Department does not have nuich respect for a Union education. The one fear on th.e part of the student committee concerned the approachability of the candidate because his obvious intelligence and ability could intimidate students. This fear was quickly allayed in the conference after his lecture when he convincingly demonstrated a great deal of concern for the students and a desire to be available to them. Perhaps the final decision of hiring a professor should be made by an arbitrator of sorts - possibly someone in the administration who can make an unbiased decision utilizing the opinions of the English Department faculty and the student commi ttcc. That way a decision can be made without the unpleasantness of academic politics interfering with th~ wclfarC\ of the students. which I bdiL'H' is what happcnL·d in this case. Sincerely, David J. ·\dinolfi TT .!ommu;munuunmumuulnlnuluuammammucl&l~lmmllmumnmmnummmm ·· . 1 EARTH DAY • EVERY DAY NAT\0 Nt\L 'NILDUFE FtDERAl.lON 1400 16th Street NW, washington, DC 20036·2266 • llltiiiiiJIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIRIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIAIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII~illlllllllllllllll ALL LETIERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBMITTED TO THE CONCORD lENS IS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETTERS AND THOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not ne~cessarily reflect the • • opinions of the Editorial Board.

\ ' CONCORDlENSIS, February 1~,. 1990 Page 13 LETTERS ·Student~Seek Security and Safety Alumni No Longer Welcome To the Editor: The reports of a flasher and various attacks on the) campus, along with the circulation of pictures and descriptions' from Security of two men who ~qppose<J:ty have key£ to some • · dorms on campus have prompted concern .for the safety of women at Union. At Union Cellege, the notion of security is tak.en far too lightly by students, faculty, Administration, and by the Security DeprutJllent itself. We would like to discuss a few key points of the i:;sue~ and propose a n:amber of . suggestions for improvement. 1) The· Securit~ Escort Service must be improved. The number of escort vans and the escort hours need to be increased. It is not uncommon for women to wait 30-45 minutes for a ride, thereby encouraging them to walk instead. Students and the Security Departmeat need to recogni;ze that dark does not necessarily mealllate. The s~n descends at five o'clock during the winter, and although it is not late, women who are walking alone at this .time are not safe. We suggestthat more work study students 1Je hired to drive escort vans, which would not only increase manpower, but be more cost-effective than hiring additiona-l security guards. These resources could be diverted to maintenance and repair of the vans,. which so obviously need service. 2) It is the responsibility of women on campus not to abuse the service. This means not using the escort service as a taxi between dorms and parties or on railly or cold evenings. lL shoul'{): only be used by women walking alone, not in bunches. We suggest that stricter rules :regarding use of the escort service be.enforced to decrease these absses. 3) Lighting on campus should be improved. Women walking from their :cars to the dorm or even walking in groups across campus need well-lit areas to en~ure safety. Unfortunately, despite many so-called. light iEspections, there still remain many areas on campus that are poorly lit, and therefore, dangerous. Parking lots in proximity to dorms are of immediate conce·rll.. but o·verall .. improve-ment 'is also a necessi ~y.. Maintenance of lights tlittt are already in place is also crucial to women's safety. 4) Tele:pnones on .the outside of both sides of every dorm, fraternitY\ ancl sorority should be instabled to encourage women to call the escort service rat11er than walk alone at night, Not having keys to every d-_;}J'm on campus makes access tv a telephone a probleJ11, whHe outdoor phones and emergency phones near educad()nal buildings would prevent women from walking alone. 5) We strongly believe that when (lfl incident occurs, the , residents in the area should be notifie<l and made aware .of the situation immediately. Communication lines could be implemented through resident advisors and fraternity and sororit~ presidents. When an incide11t occurs less than 100 feet away from one's door, all resiclertts are in danger. It is better to hear the facts from the · Admillistration or from Security tllan learning of thy incide11t through gC>ssip . and rumor~. Fallacies, and exagge.Iations are promoted when accurate information is not rec-eived. Isn't it tirne tbat Union College worry more about tile safety of its students rather tllan' its reputation? This lett.er is not intended t<> create panic and anxiety. Rather it simply attempts to increase awareness of campus safety among Union students, faculty, the Administration and th:e Security Department. The safety ·Of all female students, faculty members 1 and emplo,ees is in jeopardy. We cannot am;>rd to be lax in this siLUatL&<n and wait until a traged,, occurs to take action. While dte Admioh;tration and Security should work jointly to impro\e the situation, it is also tile responsibility of all Union .st:udents to ensur~ each others~ safety on campus. Respectfully. Amy B. Joslin Anne E. Gould President Delta Gamma To the Editor: As a recent alumnus of the college, there is an issue which I would like to address in regards to the February 1,1~90 edition of Concordiensis. My comments refer to the article on the fJ:ont page, \Carn:p Union Cancelled for 1990'!\ It is understood that recent changes in New York State law concerning alcohol possession by minors has placed the administJ:ation of tlw college in a difficult position. Furthermore, it is understC>ocl that in order to stay witbin ·· compliance of those laws, tile college must be extremely cautious about any spring teiDI campus-wide activities sucll as Catnp Union. Finally, it is understood that the school will do it's best to find an appropriate solHtion to tl!is problem without taking away all such activities. What is not unders.tood is the statement by Dean of Students, Joseph Mammola: \tile College is not throwing a party for alumni of the College ...• , it is a party for the student :body only 11 • Insofar as I have already received one phone call and two .. etters from Union since my graduation in June asking me to \:kindly donate 11 to my alma mat~r, it would seem that in turn, the administration of the Final Exam Corrections: ·-~/ Under the c<>de of building tQ be used ALUM .. Alumni Gym Under Friday, March 16- 1:00-3:00 P.M.- KPHL-068-01 should read PHL-068.-:QL Under Monday, March 19 .. 9:00-11:00 A.M.- CSCM012-01 BUTR 109 should by BUTR 106; and PRY -013-01 NWSE 112 should be NWSE 114. Under Monday, March 19 -t:00-3:00P.M. -EXC-011-03 should read ESC-0 11-03; also ESC-030-01 NWSE 11 should read NWSE 116; aLso There is NO EXAM forHS'T-t24~01. Under Wednesday, March 21-9:00-11:00 A.M.- CHM-010..;01, 02; & 03 BUTR 204 should read RAn.. 207. school would go to the necessary lengths which might motivate me to do so. For as long as I was a student at Union College, Camp Union was not only an event for the student body, but it was also a time when alumni could come up .for the weekend to spend time with old friends. With the development of policies such as this one, we see yet another example of how the administration is pushing away the alumni - a group that, in the near future, would be a major· source of funds for the college. Does the college actually expect us to \kindly donate\ when we are told that we are not invited to take part in what has become a Union tradition? It is my suspicion that this policy may have been developed in attempts to keep the campus under control during whatever takes the place of Camp Union. Alumni, who are no longer under the jurisdiction of the school, may not take heed in the words of the Union College Security Patrolmen. I propose the following solution to the entire Camp Union problem. Why not stage the event on the football field? Keep guards at the gates to prohibit attendees from bringing alcohol onto the field, and have other patrolmen walking about the field to confiscate any alcohol which may have slipped by. Each person wishing to enter the field area must wear a wrist band,. as was the case during last year's Camp Union. Alumni who plan to attend the event must pick up their wrist bands at Lamont House. No person without a band will be allowed within the gates of the field. Those who break the rules may have their bands taken away, and ma:51 be removed from the area. In this way alcohol consumption on the field will be kept to a minimum, and locals and other undesirables will be kept away from the event. The college cannot solve its current liability problem by taking away from the students and alumni; the administration must strive to find a so·lution which will appease all members of' the college community. For the rest of our lives, each of us will be ca1Jed upon to support the growth of the college. The question the administration must ask themselves is: will they want to? Sincerely, Evan N. Pickus '89 Environmental Education Needed To the Editor: The questions presented in the debate on education reform seem to focus upon the protection of our position as a world economic leader, asking, \Are we providing our children with the knowledge they will need to compete with the children of Japan and West Germany?\ While the more primary question to ask, \Are we providing our children with the knowledge they will need to survive?\ is being overlooked; If our children outscore all countries in the areas of Math and Science, bat are without cl~an air and water, we have given them nothing. For this reason, a comprehensive multidisciplinary environmen- tal education program must be included in core curriculum. The Sierra Club (Atlantic Chapter Education Committee, in cooperation with Prof. Lester Milbrath at the Univ. of Buffalo Research Program in Environment and Society, is spearheading a campaign to mandate environmental education in New York State. In addition, a variety of groups are forming a statewide coalition to gain public support and to organize a letter writing campaign. There is a great deal of work to be done, and volunteers are needed from all regions. If you would like to become involved please write to Kris Miller, c/o The Research Program for Environment and Society, 470A Park Hall, SUNY at Buffalo, Amherst, NY 14260, or call us at (716) 636~2595. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Kris Miller On February 16, 1990, the College Bookstore, College Center, will activate the returns of WINTER TERM TEXTBOOKS to publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook purchases prior to FEBRUARY 16th. .-

CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS Students Seek Security and Safety Alumni No Longer Welcome To the 'Editor: The :reports of a flasher and various attacks on the campus, along -with the ciFculation of pictures and descriptions from Security of two men who supposedly ha~e keys to some dorms on campus have prompted concern for the safety of women at Union. At Union College, the notion af security is taken far too I igh.tly by students,. faculty, Administration, and by the Security Department itself. We W()uld like to discuss a few key jJOints of the issue, and proi>o se a number of suggestions for irnprovemelilt. 1) '1'he Security Escort Service must be improved. The numb~r of escort vans and the escort hours need to be increased. It is not uncommon for women t.o wait 30-45 minutes for a ride, thereby enc<>mraging them to walk instea-d. Students and the Sccun ty Department need to rccogmzc thaL dark docs not nccc~~anly mc~m Lnc. The sm1 dcsccmch at fi' ,_: o'clock durinf the \.\i:ntn, aMI although tt j, not btc, wcvmt:n who arc walking alone at this time arc not san·e. We suggest that more work study students be hired t<J drive escort vans, which would not ()n!y increase manpower, but be more C()St-effective than hiring; additjonal security guar<ls. These resources could be div<ertcd to maintenance and repair of the vans, which so obvi<Jusly nce<i service. 2) [t is the responsibility of women em campus not t() abuse .lbe service. This means not using the -escort service as a ta;.;.i between dorms and parties or on rainy or cold evenings. It should only be used ly women walking alone, not in huncltes. We suggest that stricter n1les regarding use of the; escort service be enforced to decrease these abuses. 3) Lighti11g on campus should. be improved. Women walking from. their cars to the dorDI or even walking in groups across campus need well· lit areas. to ensure safety. Unf01ttunatel::y, despite many so-called light inspections, there still remain many areas on campus tliat are poorly lit, and therdore dangerous. Par:king lots in proximity to dorms are of immediate concern,. but overall improvement is also a necessity. Maintenance of lights th.at are already in place is also crucial to women's safety. 4) Telephones on the outside of both sides of every dorm, fraternity and sorority should be installed to encourage women to call the escort service rather than walk alone at night. Not having keys to every dorm on campus makes access to a telephone a problem, while outdoor phones and emergency phones Dear educational buildings would prevent women from walking alone. 5) We strongly believe that when an incident occurs, the residents in the area should be notified and made aware of the situation immediately. Communication lines could be implemented through resident advi-;ors and fraternity and sorority pr~stdcnts. When an incident occurs less than l ()(I feet away from one's door. all residents arc in dangc r. It is better to hearth...: fach from the Administration or from Security than learning of the incident through gossip and rumors. Fallacies and exaggerations are promoted when accurate infonnation is not received. Isn't it time that Union College worry more about the safety of its students rather than its reputation? This letter is not intended to create panic and anxiety. Rather it simply attempts to increase awareness of campus safety among Union students, faculty, the Administration and the Security Department. The safety of all female students, faculty members, and employees is in jeopardy. We cannot afford to be lax in this situation and wait until a tragedy occurs to take action. While the Administration and Security should work jointly to improve the situation, it is also the responsibility of all Union students to ensure each others' safety on campus. Respectfully, Amy B. Josli11 Anne E. Gould President Delta Gamma To the Editor: As a recent alumnus of the college, there is an issue which I would lilc:e to address in regards to the February 1,1990 edition of C~ncordiensis. My comments refer to the article on the front page, \Camp Union Cance1led for 1990?\ It is understood that recent changes in New York State law concerning alcohol possession by minors has placed the administration of the college in a difficult position. Furthermore, it is understood that in order to stay within compliance of those laws, the college must be extremely cautious about any spring term campus-wide activities such as Camp Union_ Finally, it is understood that the school will do it's bc:st to find an appropriate solution to this problem without taking away all such acti'-·itics. What h not unJcr~tood ~-. ! IJ,· statement h: lk~Hl of Stud:.:nL,, Joseph \1amnwla: · tht~ College i:-, m lf thruv. illi,' a pan:· for alumni of th.: College ..... it is a party for the :-.tudent body only\. Insofar as I have already received one phone call and two Letters from Union since my graduation in June asking me to \kindly donate\ to my alma mater, it would seem that in turn, the administration of the Final Exam Corrections: Under the code of building to be used ALUM - Alumni Gym Under Friday, March 16- 1:00-3:00 P.M.- KPHL-068-0l should read PHL-068-0 1. Under Monday, March 19- 9:00-11:00 A.M.- CSC-012-01 BUTR 109 should by BUTR 106; and PHY-013-01 NWSE 112 should be NWSE 114. Under Monday, March 19 - 1 :00-3:00 P.M. - EXC-0 11-03 should read ESC-011-03; also ESC-030-01 NWSE ll should read NWSE 116; also There is NO EXAM for HST -124-01. Under Wednesday, March 21-9:00-11:00 A.M.- CHM-010-01, 02, & 03 BUTR 204 should read BAIL 207. school would go to the necessary lengths which might motivate me to do so. For as long as I was a student at Union College, Camp Union was not only an event for the sbudent body, but it was also a time when alumni could come up for the weekend to spend tirne with old friends. With the development of policies such as this one, we see yet another example of how the administration is pushing away the alumni - a group that, in the near future, would be a major source of funds for the college. Does the college actually expect us to \kindly donate\ when we are told that we are not invited to take part in what has become a Union tradition? It is my suspicion that this policy may have he-en developed in ~ttcmpts to kl'cp the campu' untkr contrul during whall''• .. :ruk. .. ·s the plan· of Camp L n H 1:1 . \1' till ni '-':lw ;n ,. n P lx'?; \ u IHk r 1 lh' juri,dkri,•n ,,; th_· ,, hoi'L !ll:t~ nnt take hc:.'t! 1 n !h,· \\, )' .L , ,, the lnion Co lkgl' St·, urt!) PJt;ulmcn. 1 pn'rch;.' tih' following sol l!tion to the entire Camp Cnion rroblcm. Why not stage the c vent on the football field? Keep guards at the gates to prohibit attendees from bringing alcohol onto the field, and have other patrolmen walking about the field to confiscate any alcohol which may have slipped by_ Each person wishing to enter the field area must wear a wrist band, as was the case during last year's Camp Union. Al11mni who plan to attend the event must pick up their wrist bands at Lamont House. No person without a band wiH be allowed within the gates of the field. Those who break the rules may have their bands taken away, and may be removed fmm the area. In this way alcohol consumption on the field will be kept to a minimum. and locals and other undesirables will be kept away from the event. The college cannot sol vc its current liability problem by taking away from the -;tudcnts and alumni: the adminisLration must stri vc tn find a -.;o I tllion W h i l' h \V l 11 ~l p j' t' a\'-' ~t]] llll'mhcrs 11! the c ·:L· .. , .. i..'\'f~11ll\!nl1Y· h1r q,,_, rc< d 1· ;r !i'.·t·...,, :..\J .• :h t\! t:·, ·sif: ~·l. ~:~11.-d u;'un l~t ~~1p;)on Ifh.·· ~~ - .. ~., tt· \; th~ .... :olk .. ~~:. ·rilt, 'lL',~.·~-~·1 t: adrnilli:;trJ:JP!l lhl,,: :r,L l h :..'Ill 'C i \' .. '\ I:< \\ I ; ~ ~ J ~..., : '.•, ~: \1 \ w·.' S1nl..'.:relv J ' Evan [';.Pickus 'R9 Environmental Education Needed To the Editor: The questions presented in the debate on education refonn seem to focus upon the protection of our position as a world economic leader, asking. \Are we provid.ing our children with the know ledge they will need to cornpete with the children of Japan and West Germany?\ While the more primary question to ask, II Are we providing ()Uf children with the knowledge they will need to survive? II. is being overlooked. If our children outscore all countries in tile areas of Math and Science~ but are without cl~an air and water, we have given them nothing. For this reason, a comprehensive multidisciplinary environmen- tal education program must be included in core curricul urn. The Sierra Club (Atlantic Chapter Education Committee, in cooperation with Prof. Lester Milbrath at the Univ. of Buffalo Research Program in Environment and Society, is spearheading a campaign to mandate environmental education in New York State. In addition, a variety of groups are forming a statewide coalition to gain public support and to organize a letter writing campaign. There is a great deal of work to be done, and volunteers arc needed fr0m all regions. If you woLild like to become involved please write to Kris Miller, c/o The Research Program for Environment and Society, 470A Park Hall. SUNY at Buffalo. Amherst, NY 14260, or call us at (716) 636-2595. Thank you for your consideration. Sincerely, Kris Miller On February 16, 1990, the Bookstore, College College Center, will activate the returns of WINTER TERM TEXTBOOKS to publishers. Students please take notice and make your textbook purchases prior to FEBRUARY 16th. . ·\

Page 14 CONCORDIENSJS, February 15, 1990 ARTS & ENTERrfAINMEN'T ,. Horoscopes by Madame ••x\ AQUARIUS: Dare to be different! Hey, everyone has a flair for individuality. and its important to remember to go a little crazy! Try a decadent outlook on life. it can be worth your while .. -- PISCES: So look who's now caning; the kettle black?! You're living a self-fulfilling prophecy by lookmg to others' . · · mistakes as a way of making yours bJk betteT. Look to yourselfonce in a while. ARIES: Commitment to a special someone seems on the rise, but if you are afraid of losing yorn sense of self in your newfound relationship -- speak upl Remember, words convey much more than yol:l realize. · TAURUS: Taking charge of your life now could do a lot for your self-esteem, not to mention your social endeavors. This weekend, look for a fun-filled Saturday night with a new special someone. ' 1 ~t (WTIIEOmTQ'll ~s!;e':::~!~-1~\ .. SLP\ERUffil:f'EJU'OIL~C.ES .·A•mtttrr.~oftal~. p!\fio ~~-~--~-.twpat~en:D.- -QSI: Of niE YF.AR'SII~ D.lt>:saHc~-~~ IMY SU} 'Willi 'r<1Ul2II~O[YOUI LIM~ .-.,,...:;;......,. ... , ... 'J Stanly & Iris Loose Catmon Little Mennaid Heart Condition Tango & Cash Tremors Stella Hard to Kill Born on the Fourth of July Driving Miss Daisy Glory Internal Affairs Flashback ' War of the Roses GEMINI: Gossiping is going to get your goat! Remember~ lot of people listen when you least e:xpect it as you sit at a college center table. In fact, it often len<is itself to more than justa cup of coffee. CANCER: Yes~ You're feeling revived after this past weekend, but just you wait ... this weekend holds many hints as to what you can expect for yourself in the future. Feb. 16, 17, 18 at 7, 9, 11 Call Theaters for Show Times. LEO: Lighten up! The pressure )1ou\ve been applying to yourself is catching you in some pretty tillusual circumstances. It's time to take a breather. Sunday migllt be a great day for a cold shower or a big time nap. VIRGO: Relax. Relax. I know it's tOcugt. being an adult with rcspGnsibilitcs, but if you keep this up you're going to drive away those who want to bl near yoll.\fake time for yourself-- it might do you some justice in :the end. LIBRA: Life is too short to wallow ja what you could do with your future. Just go with it and sto]J being so analytical! SCORPIO: Hot chocolate by an open fire sounds great -- especially if you can head up north ... but if you can't head off cam1ms --try sledding down those inf.amous football hills! SAGITTARIUS: Ok.ay, you're feeling a little out of it lately, but don't worry -- you'll get back. into the groove shortly. In fact, you should find this COiining week to be more along your lines of a good time. Just don't expect too much -- and you'll get more out of whatever y().IJ do. ON CAMPUS, MOVIE Monday Night, Feb. 19th 8 & 10 p.m. CAPRICORN: You've been bllrning the coal too long- you're running out of supplies!! It's time to de-stress yourself by venturing out! This means good news is in store, for you can look forward .to a great weekend~ with a lot of good times with friends. This will relax you! Enjoy yourself, you deserve . I lt. Wedne~day Night: \Pet Semetary\ 7,9,&11 Mountebanlts Presents Mar. 1 ,2,3 8:pn1 Feb. 27, 28 Matinee - Ma:r. 3, 2:pm Nott Memorial Theater Box Office 370-6153

CONCORDJENSiS; February 15, 1990 P!lge 15 ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT '\C - • • th C ·b· t·· '' . _ ome JO'tn _ .· e a are ••• PANHELLENIC CABARET • THURSDAY, FEBRUARY the 15th . at 9 pm in the Old Cha_pel Admission fee: $2.00 · *Refre-shments will be served ... -for ·more information please contact:: :Leslie· Ross- 393-·7413, or box #1859. · PROCEEDS DONATED TO THE SCHENECTADY RAPE CRISIS CENTER -sponsered by the Panhellenic Council -6. .6. 11-- !::t. F- CABA,RET '90- r <!>· B- E J1 T- HUGH WILSON on key Feb. 21, 28 Mar. 7, 14 at 12:30 in the Memorial Chapel The Ca,baret of Yesterday ••• Today By REBEKAH THAYER Let me take you back a few years, fall, 1986, to be exact. I was a freshman. And there was this thing called Cabaret. Now mind you I'm not talking about what you know as Cabaret now. This was really different. Tile Cabaret of my freshman year went something like this: Tuesday or Wednesday you~d see signs go up all over campus announcing who was doing Cabaret this Thursday · night. Thursday you'd pick up Concordy and tum to the entertainment ·section and find out who's on tonight and what time the shows started. Yes, shows. There were two shows, one at 8 or 9 and the other at 10 or 11. The f:rrst was opened up to everyone and the second was for· 21 Club (i.e., you needed an ID to get in and there was a bar). So at either 9 or 11 you'd head to Old Chapel, pay $1 to get in and pull up a seat as dose to both the food table and the front of the \stage\ as you could. While waiting for the show to start you'd play scrabble with the pretzel sticks and pig out on wings and chips with your friends. Then the MC would introduce the acts for the evening and keep you at ' least mildly amused while the performers tried to figure out how to set up their stuff (1) without strangling t:liemselves ·or anyone else with guitar and mike cords and (2) still get sound. Then, on with the show. Each act (there were two, usuaHy) would play fo:r 45 minutes to an hour. Most everyone.stayed the entire time. People would sing alo11g or dance if they felt the need. Sometimes someone from· the audience would get up and join in the act for a little impromptu performance. 'lt was a good time had by all. In the past few years all that's changed. For those of you who haven't experienced Cabaret the way it was, you've . just never really experienced. Cabaret. But there is still a chance for the Cabaret of yesteryear to live again. We now have use of Carnegie 301 and 302. There are tables a11d chairs set up just waiting for a good game of \how many things can you spell out with pretzel sticks\. and chips, wings and soda just waiting to be consumed. Yes, folks, the mythical Cabaret of yesteryear is just hanging out there waiting to be broQght back to life. What does it need? It needs people. So you're not a musician, eh? So what? Do you love to talk? Do you like being in the sp()tlight? Be an MC. Cabaret is also for comedians, jllgglers, actors. dancers, and just about anything you can think of. It tliuives on variety. Why one year~ there was even someone wllo played her teeth! Now tllere's variety! So you don't like to perform, do you? Well, how 'bout organize? There are other things to be done. The show never goes on without the behind-the,scenes work. There are. posters to hang, acts to recruit, food to order, reviews and previews to be written, eq!]ipment to· be taken care of, etc. So what type of people is. Cabaret looking for? Well, if you perform, write,. play scrablle with pretzels, or can walk a11d chew gum at the same time, you can help bring back the Cabaret of yesteryear. A1:1 you really need is the des~re ;to make it happen. Alrigbt, here's the deal. Call Cb.ris Nikolis (372-431 0) or Allisorr Drescher (386-4095) and te11 them what you want to do. Cabaret WILL live again! Emerson String Quartet Make 5th Schenectady Appearance The Emerson String Quartet, one of the world's premiere classical quartets, will perform a program of music by Haydn, Bartok and Schumann on Saturday, Feb. 17, at 8 p.m. at Union College's Memorial Chapel. The concert, their fifth appearance in the Schenectady Museum/ Union Colle.ge concert series, will be preceded at 7}tm. by a recital of string duos by Mozart, Beethoven and Prokofiev. Members of the .quartet are Philip Setzer and Eugene Drucker. violins; Lawrence Dutton, viola; and David Fincke!, cello. On the program &e Quartet in C. Major, Op. 54, No. 2 by Franz Joseph Haydn; Quartet No. 2 by Bela Battok; and Quartet in A Minor, Op. 41. No. 1 by Robert Schumann. The 7 p.m. pre-concert recital will feature Duo in G Major for Violin and Viola, K. 423 by Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart; \Eyeglasses Duo\ in E-flat Major for Viola and Cello by Ludwig VanBeethoven; and Sonata for Two Violins,. Op. 56 by Sergei Prokofiev. The Emerson was formed over a decade ago as the professional continuation of a student quartet· begun at the J ulliard School; the· name was selected to honor the great SUPPORT PHI GAMMA DELTA'S 12th Annual Basketball Marathon Feb. 23 & 24 and help the New York State Head Injury Association!! Amerian writer and philosopher. Since its founding, the .quartet has carried a reputation for innovation, including alternating the first chair position between the two violinists. Its current schedule includes cencerts, recording, filming, and radio broadcasts both here and abroad. Also on the schedule are a teaching and performance residency at the Hart School of Music in Hartford, and concert series at both the Smithsonian Institute in Washington and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. New record releases include Mozart's H 0 N E E A S T 0 D R R E \Hunt\ and \Dissonaat\ qual'tets and Haydrn's \Emporer\. Last summer marked the quartet's sixth season in residence at the Aspen Festival, and re-engagements at the Mostly Mozart, Ravinia, Caramoor and Vermont Music Festivals, and a new residency with the Los Angeles Philharmonic Institute. Both the concert and recital are in Memorial Chapel, lo-cated at the center of the Union College campus. The btU's fine acoustics make it a favorite among area chamber music fans. Tickets, at $14 ($7 for students). are available at Schenectady Museum, all Community Box Offices, and at .the door. For information, call 382-7890 or 372-3651 (e.venin.gs and weekends). Something new under the sun ... Union's own· COFFEE HOUSE Good Coffee (politically correct even) H:omemade Breads - Music A Sort of Sophisitcated Skellar Stop in for a While and RECLA:IM_ YOUR COLLEGE CENTER! This Friday, February 16th 7:30-1 0:30

Page l() WRUC TRIVIA RULES Winter 1990 1. Trivia will take place at the folJowing times: Sunday, February 18, 8-I I pm Sunday, february 25, 8-IO pm Sunday,!\1arch4, 8-IO pm (:'\ ote: Er1aing times are .appro:tinate) 2. If you know·the answer to any question, ca11310-615 I or 370-6I 54. 3. Each qt1estion that is asked 'Will have a musical clue and a prize assigned to it. The clue will be played continuously until a correct answer has been phoned in or the·question is declared a \stumper.\ The musi:cal clue has one of three functions: It can lead you to the answer, away from the aruwer, ot just be a :song that goes along with the topic of the question. 4. If a question is declared a \stumper the priz<' for that question will be forwarded to the next question, which willLhe:nhavc two pri:Lest. 5. !;pen receiving a correct ansiVer, we will play the famous trivia tones. At this time, no ft rther answers will be taken foi·that question. 6. All persons who arc the ftrst 10 call in the correct answer to a given question will be asked for their name, address, :and the trivia team that they are playing for. A trivia team can ·either be a campus .dorm, greek organization, or an independently formed group. One point will be aw-<Jrded to a team each time a member cal)s in a correct answer. The teams with the highest point totals in each of the three categories (dorms, greeks, and independents) at Lhe: end of the competition on March 4 will be awarded a grand prize. 7. A team is considered registered the fust time a point is awarded to it. Once a point for a correct answer has been awar:d~ to a particular team, it cannot be moved to another team. w8.All que.sti<>ns are worth one point, except for the bonus question~ asked at the end of the first two broadcasts. These qlJestions 3l'e worth five points, and have no prizes associated with them. A more ex.act explanation ofbo!lus questions will be given as the contest proceeds. 9. Protests of answers to any guestion can be made only at the end of each week's broadcast. :\fembers of the tri,.i~ staff will remain in the studio for ftfteen (tS) minutes after we go off the air to he:ar protests. In order for a protest to be accepted, the protester must be prepared to present the trivia $1aff with physical evidencc·that proves our anwer to a given questio111 to be wrong. If a protest is accepted, the point for that question will be deducted fr-om the score of the team that originally answered it. I fowever, the: person who called in the original answer will still keep the prize he: or she won. Pretests DO .SOT add pcmts to the score of the protesting team ,since it is imposstble to tell who phone<! in the correct answer during the contest. This Yea.r, Win Prizes from: .... ~~~~'J\h€. /Hm:Jik :Jf.erb Manonar lndra. lrr-ports,Who1esa1e1 •63 JayS: P·C Eo> BJS ... :4'1enectaa 1 NY 12301 3n.7:1;-3 ·-------- New England Fudge Co. at Jay St. CasteiJo's Restaurant at \\1487 State St. Peter Pause Restaurant CONCORDIENSJS, February 151 1990 . Final Exam Corrections: Under the code of building to be used.ALUM -Alumni Gym Under Friday, March 16- 1:00-3:00P.M .... KPHL- 068-01 should read PHL-068-01. Under Monday, March 19 - 9:00~ 11:00 A.M. - CSC- 012-01 BUTR 109 should'by BUTR 106; and PHY- 013-01 NWSE 112 should be NWSE 114. Under Monday, March 19- 1:00-3:00 P.M.- EXC- 011-03 should read ESC~O 11-03; also ESC-030-01 NWSE 11 should read NWSE 116: also There is NO EXAM for HST-124-01. Under Wednesday, March 21 - 9:00-11:00 A.M.- CHM-010-01, 02} & 03 BUTR 204 should read BAIL 207~ - . THE UNION COLLEGE HERITAGE SOCIETY will be holding elections MONDAY, FEBRUARY 19th at 9 p.m. in College Center Room 410 All interested in voting and} or participating please come! 1 Mountebani(S Presents Feb. 27,- 20 Mar. 1 ,2,3 B:pn1 Matinee • Mar .. 3, 2:pm Nott Memorial Theate~ Box OHice 37 . 153 A STREETCAR NAMED DESIRE Monday, February 19 8 & 10 PM CC Auditorium Admission: $1 spqnsDred by the film committee

CONC()RDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Evangelist is putting on a Ziti Dinner, Saturday t March 3 at 5 · p.m. Any Union student wh() wishes to ·come as Sister Joan's guest just has to sign up ill CC404 and your meal will be paid for. VISITING SHUT-INS · Any linion student who wishes to visit a shuHn on a regular basis please contact Gerri Borne at 372-3381. VIDEO PROGRAM Tuesday Night Supper. - On Tuesday, February.20 at St. February 20th at 5 p.m.- All. CONFIRMATION -Any John's School Library from Union students are invited to • Union student who bas not 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are use meal 'Catd, go through ·. been confmned may contact Sr. welcome to attend a video Upperclass Dining, bring tray Joan at the College Center : .program \A Way to God For to CC203 and join Anita · 4048 .. Classes in preparation Today\ by Antn@ny de Mello, Mewherter for supper and: . for Bishop Hubbard's visit on S.J., author of many books on conversation about her family's June 3 will be. arranged with spirituality and until his expetience with Hospice and · ' student schedules in mind and · · untimely death in 1987 director her work as a volunteer with will begin first week of spring · of the Sadhana Institute of Hospice. · term. . Pastoral Counseling near · · Poona, India. Part 1 will deal Interfaith Dating - The Folk Group - All singers · with Silence. Study Guides and Religiou.s Program Office is · and musicians interested in · discussion questions will be sponsoring a program on being part of the music : provided. Wednesday, February 21 at ·. ministry at the 7:30 p.m. 7:30 p.m. in CC409. Panelists Sunday Mass please meet at . BlBLY STUDY/PRAYER indude: Rev. Gary L. 6:30 p .. m. in the church to GROUP Gelfenbien, former Campus ·. rehearse. The .group welcomes · · On Tuesday, February 20 from Minister at RPI, presently anyone to join who regularly 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's Professor at several local attends this Liturgy~ School Library there will be a Colleges; The Reverend continuation of a study of the Elizabeth S. Hall, Associate Tutoring • Union College : GOSPEL OF MATTHEW. All Pastor, United Presbyterian students needed to tutor at an:y : · are welcorne. Church, Troy; Rabbi Julie one of three local elementary • ===~~:=:===~ Wolkoff,Berith Shalom schools. Please contact Sheila • Congregation, Troy. A Humiston 372-9231. Any • reception will folJow. All former tutors please write t() . welcome. Sheila at Box 965 and let her · Free Ziti Dinner ., The · Rosary Society of St. John the know if you are keeping tile . same assignment of have • changed it NO MEA CLASSIFIEDS Attention: Easy work, excellent pay! Assemble .products at home. Details. (1) 602~838-8885 Ext. W-7090, Attention Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840 - $69,485. Call 1- 602~838-8885 Ext. R-7090. Attention • Government seized vehicles from $100. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplus Buyers Guide. l-\602-838-8885 Ext. A-7090. Attention • Government homes from $1 (U-repair). Delinquent tax property. Repossessions. Call 1-602~ ,&38-8885 Ext. GH-7090. Attention: Earn money reading books! $32,000/year income potential. Details. (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. Bk-7090. For Rent: 1706-08 Carrie St. (2)3 bedroom flats, appHances.. included, no utilities, no pets, female students only, 3 blocks from college, $390 month. Available March 1 for spring semester and/or all of 1990-91. 875-6229 eves. Win a Hawaiian vacation or big screen TV plus raise up to $1400 in just 10 days!! Objective: fundraiser Co~mitment: Minimal Final Exam Corrections: Under the code of building to be used ALUM - Alumni Gym Under Friday, March 16- 1:00-3:00 P.M.- KPHL-068-01 should read PHL-068-01. Un_derMonday,,March 19- 9:00-ll:OOA.M.- CSC..;Q12-01 BUTR 109 should by BUTR 106; and PHY-013-01 NWSE 112 should be NWSE 114. · Under Monday, March19- 1:00-3:00 P.M.- EXC-011-03 should read ESC-011-03; also ESC-030_;01 NWSE 11 should read NWSE 116; also There is NO EXAM for HST-124-01. . Under Wednesday, March 21-9:00-11:00 A._M.- CHM-010-01, 02, & 03 BUTR 204 should read BAIL 207. 1990 Phi Gamma Delta . / •' Basketball Marathon AU Proceeds go -to the New York State Head Injury Association February 23-24; noon to noon F,or more inform:ation, please call Steve or Dan at 386-4151 or Andy at- 386-4168 Page 17 Money: Raise $1400 Cost Zero investment · Campus organizations, clubs, frats, sororities call OCMC: 1- 800-932-0528/ 1-800-9 50- . 8472, ext 10. .<\.partment for rent, 1050 : University, June 15 December 15. Room for 4 people, $800 a month. For details caU x4421 or x4263. PERSONALS trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia_, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, :trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, /trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, HV, SK, KW, EF, SP- Sorry about Friday nite. Thanx a lot- I really love you guys! z The Greek men are hot but the \oyzo\ is \oskimos\ Hey Handsome, Happy Valentine's Day & here's to 5 months. It's all down hill from here. I love you more. LoveJackee Angels Dear Union, Don't waste space Build a school compacter -an upset custemer John, Billy, Jason, Jim- Have fun Sat. night! Jared & Hal, I still love you, too. Davidson 3rd North You guys are the BEANS! Thanks for making the first half of the year so fantastic and BE Happy! 15 weeks left together! LizRA Could someone in Greece please introduce PSG to a writing utensil? Thanks PEH Mandy- Get psyched! It's really too bad about the plummeting property value on University, but I'm really glad for us ... Love, Elizabeth LS& RE Congrats! You ARE the hottest item! -Smirk .. . -- \'

( ·-· I '> Page 18 PERSONALS trivia, trivia, trivia., trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia., trivia, t:l1ivia, trivia, trivi~ .. trivia, ~trivia, trivia, trlviCl, trivia, Lrivia, trivia, triviCt, trivia, Lrivia, trivia, trivia, tri~ia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivi:a, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivie~, trivia, trivia, trivia, triv•iCJ, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivtCJ .• trivia, trivia, trivia, trivi<!', trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivi.a, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, Fleisch- Do.n't give up so soon, those eyes wiU captivate. someone yet! If eyes faii, r()u always have the butt!! Love,J and K Dave Suss- fro totally honored! Your underwear's at the dry cleaners- I'll have to buy Y\\'ll some more. Love, Jen Ann I know Marcy BethW., MellissCJ. L, and Bask en, We are off to Ute wonderful Isle of Jamaica- or New Orleans- I'm sure we'll hawe a blast. -Amy Lost - a brown le:ather bomber jacket at K.A. 011. February 1. Great sentimentaJ value. If found please· con1act Kathy at 346-7068. Your soft little sllioes will take you from the blu..es to a place close to home where you are placed on the thr'One in a warm place - where ilie sun shines and the palms gr<>w. Luv, Blanch & Alexis Michael- So far I've gotten every wish I've made. Wiili e~ record like that, how can we go wrong? Love, Elizabeth To my secret valentine - I don't know wh>O you are yet, but l know you're pretty special. Thanks ~o much!!! E.ove. Elizabeth Jordan- Happy birthdayt Love,. Stephanie Yo Dan- You are not an :i11valid! L()ve, Stephanie CONCORDlENSIS, February 15, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS Baskin- happy birthday -Lesmo yourself into any trouble. Love, Bruce Lee and Fancy Fr.mcy Coach Dave, Regarding last week's personal, we don;tknow who wrote it but they were out of line. Together we've made great strides since last year, let's keep up the good work! responsible for dozens oflives. Don' tak~ tbis job lightly! Be sure to talk to your ants daily - let them '00Casiona1ly f.ratemize wit~ yo11r fish. To the man with 13 stitches- We should have kept the water running! Justkidding! You'll be better soon! Suz, wheat thins don't do it for me any more! I'm waiting for cool summer breezes .. or were they warm? hmmm ... Where ya goin'? ... Where ya go in'? HAPPY HAPPY BIRTHDAY AMANDA FLINK MicheleMM- Check the staff box!!! L& A. To Betty, Happy birthday - Don't get ... Oh, y ippy (ya be) erronoous! Love, Jocelyn Ants need love! Tip to ~he ant farmer: You ate trivia, triv,ia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia,. trivia, trivia, This Week at The CC Friday, February 16, 1990 7:30 pm & 10:00 prn CCAUD Film: Rain:man 7:30pm CC302 Coffeebouse Saturday, February 17 ~ 1990 7:30pm & 10:00 prn CCAUD Film: Raimfian Sl.Ulday, Febrwuy 18, 199() 12:30pm CCAUD JSUSpeaker 7:30pm. & 10:00 pm CCAUD Film: Raimnan Monday, February 19, 1990 7:00 pm CC406 Medem Language Film Seris 8 &. 10 pm CCAUD Film: A Street Car Named Desire Tuesday, February 20, 1990 2:00pm CCAUD Doublas Hasbrouck: \Engineertng Ethics ... \ 4:30 pm CCAUD Faculty Colloquium Speaker 6:30 pm UCDH College Bowl Faculty Challenge 7:30pm CC406 Plateful of Questions: ''What's Your Price?\ 7:30pm CCAUD Ronald Kline: \Charles Steirunetz ... \ All Day CCATRIUM 'The Steihmetz Electric Car on Display Wednesday, February.21, 1990 9:00am DHR Pit Jail-N-Bail 1:15pm CCAOD Frank Griggs: \The Nott Memorial-- Its Structure in Historical Perspective\ 2:15pm CCAUD Carl George: \Symbolic Architectural Elements ofthe Nott Memorial\ 3:00pm CC204 Big Bro/Sis Recruiting 5:00 pm CC302 Meditation Study 7:30pm CC406 Spanish Club Film 7:30pm CCAUD Career Panel 9:15pm DHRDave Binder Concert Thursday, February 22, 1990 9:00am DHR Pit Jail-N-Bail 3:00 pm CCAUD Capt. Bart Clark: \Engineering Accomplishments of the Navy\ 7:00 pm CCAUS Ron Peak: \Black Econorrtlc Empowerment\ 9:00 pm CCATRIUM Black History Month Reception 7 & 9 pm CC302 Cabaret - Weekly Cro~sswor·d \MR. AND MRS. PRESIDENT\ By Gerry Frey ACROSS 1 Pierce and_ 5 Webb and __ 10 City in Oklahoma 14 Comedian Johnson 15 Occurence 16 Night club in Paris 17 Back end 18 Teenage mutant_. _ turtle 19 German river 20 George and-._ 22 Mary and __ 24 Noun suHix 25 \He has __ \ 26 Bess and __ 29 Wire measure 47 \In God We Trust\ eg 48 Enraged 50 Precedes \BLE\: Twice 51 Jeftl!~on and __ 54 He11Jert and Lou 58 Comllining form meani11g six 59 Gold bar 61 Egy!)tian goddess of fertility 62 Lalapalooza 63 Sto~! 64 State: french 65 Linr;ofn and __ 66 Sil1rml 67 A11nts and uncs. 30 Sheriff's helpers DOW~ 34 Group ol one 1 Fist& !look part 1 ~~ 17 58 62 65 35 Lobbyist's org 2 Chemical compound 36 Smith and__ 3 Celebrity. 23 Redeem the marker 37 Cable music channel 4 Lou and__ 25 Pat and~~ 38 Margaret and__ 5 Hoaver and__ 26 Mounds 40 Collection of 6 Preced8S \TOR\: Pilot 27 Trick miscellaneous 7 Desire 21 Niagara, .eg information 8 Senllllp'tbe river 29 New York ap(lle 41 Simple Simon's 9 Puitctilres at Commence encounter 10 Franklin and_ 32 French parliament 43 Doctor's or g. 11 Appnaacbing 33 Muse of· .Jove poetry 44 Holy terror 12 'Cill11le~t 35' Bad review 4.5 Money sub!!titUte t3 C«illege building 36 Ptecedes \TEA\: Hole 38 Microwave. the meal: 2 wds 39 Girl of song 42 Caroline anll~- 44 Kennedy and __ 46 Gold medal recipient 47 Cow taJk 49 Verbalize 50 Was fuulisllly fond 51 Vaccination 52 Las Vegas game 53 Crossed out 54 Fireman's tool 55 City in Italy 5'· Iranian money 51 Concordes 6Al Fish For answers S~,e Page 15 a..:4&~. ·~m;.J;.~~:.~d;_ iJ.J.R!i@l ... ~., .... llll!!l. ,.~ •. !!I!!. ~!II.~. ~~:~..:s~. ~;~.i:•:~· ~~;,: lil!l! .. -~·.v~.· ... l/!!l .... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~··\·'·'-•;.11!!! ..... ,!1!, ... ...-•.. ~ .•. ~.,.,. .. ~ •..• .,..· •. !!Ill, '!'!J .. .• ~.:~.~v·~.. .I!!I< .. !I!I!! .... IJII!I •..• , .... !/!! ..••. .- ... ·'!!,.:.r 1 •... ~ .. •. \!ll.lll!l, :•': \ - '• . ~ '. :\

.. CONCORDIENSJS, February IS, 1990 . . CAMPUS NEWS trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, PERSONALS . - trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, :trivia, trivia,. trivia,. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, · trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, ;trivia, trivia, tri.yia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, , trivia,, trivia, trivia, trivia, · trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, ttivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia; trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, triVia, •trivia, trivia, trivia, triVia, triv.i.a, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia,. trivia, trivia, trivia, triviaj trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trhia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trhia, trivia, trivia, triVia, trivia, :trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, ·trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia,trivia, trivia, triv~a, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, How to Prevent S;exual Assault or Exploitation Believe that y.()u have a right to your body. Don't give in to sexual pressure, t?ven from people you know. Set your limits and state them clearly. Say \NO\ assertively to unwanted sexual attenti.on or advances. Trust your instinct. The moment you feel uncomfortabJe, ACT! Protect yourself and don't worry about making a scene. lf a firm \NO\ doesn't stop an advance, YELL for help. lfwords don't help, RUN! lfyou can't get out of a car, lean on the horn. Sexual intercourse without consent is RAPE. And rape, even by a date or an acquaintance, and even while under Jhe influence of alcohol, is a crime. What to Do If You Have Been Assaulted Seek medical attention and contact p(1lice with the he.Z1 of a friend, counselor, or advocate. Don't isolate yourself Be patient with yourself-- it takes time to recover and trust again. Don't blame yourself The person who committed the assault is responsible. If you have been sexually assaulted or exploited and need help or wan{ to talk, people at the offices listed below are trained to assist you .. Counseling Center Health Services Security & Safety Dean of Students Area Coordinators: Ext. 6161 Ext. 6121 Ext. 6911 Ext. 6116 ' Dawn Discenza Ext. 6684 Doug Erickson Ext. 6486 Jeff Mickle Ext. 6482 Rape Crisis Hotline 346-2266 Schenectally Police 374-7744 Ellis Hospital 382-4121 Union C..ollege trivia~ trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, tti·via. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, ; trivia, trivia, trhia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, ·trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia,. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .tiivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, tiivia, trivia, trivia; trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia. Page 19 . Michele M.M .• Did you have a nice walk home? Rapper ·Mr. Brown- Despite the librarian and the line about not · • falling asleep, I still tolerate · you. Love, Sparky Frank - Mein Heiland! Danke • fur freitag! - Bonzai . OS : Happy Birthday! · Lost gold ring with purple stone and two diamonds. If found, please return to Box 1322 or to the area . coordinator's office in Fox. Thank you. · L & R - I always say - Magical things happen in the Love Boat! -P trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, RKV- 1 want Papaya King, Mezza Luna and frozen hot chocolate this weekend! Only joking (or ami?) Lynda Lou This is for you to wish you a Happy 22 -M Hugs, Paummi trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia; trivia, trivia, trivia, Enjoy PASTA FAGG/OLI _____,. every Frid[;ly for only $2.50 · with Garlic Bread, ·' .. ;·-·THE WA·Y YOU LIKE .JT!I ~- ..

Page 20 PERSONALS trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, triv.ia, trivia, trivia, trivia, triv,ia, trivia, trivia, trivia, Jenny, \You know, I saw you before and I had a thousand sto:fies to tell you, but only one mouth to tell them with.\ -- If his name starts with a .... STAY AWAY!!! Love, Jocelyn Lis, \raindrops on roses and whiskers on kittens, bright copper kettles and warm woolen mittens ... \ Bright copper kettles??? Prcciiiseleeee! Love, Jocelyn To the old lady on the first floor, Happy22nd! Love N208 Lost: gold herringbone bracelet. v'ER Y GREAT SENTIMENTAL VALUE.lf found please call x4262 (386- 4262) $$ REWARD$$. Thanks Delta Gamma Pledges - Welcome aboard! Can't wait to get to know you! ITB, Kate & Cathy CHEZ- Who will it be? Doo or Tht· -Nolo WendyW. Congrats little sis that your big exam is over! How about ~-, another movie night with SS andLM I Do! -your Big Sis Love, Random Happy Birthday Lisa S. r miss you Love Courtney Tuan - So where's the check? • WWF SAVE THE WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION CONCORDlENSIS,. Febrnory 15, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS ·MEANS• ·.~ TRI-DELTAIS 2nd A'nnu·al JAil AND BAIL FEBRUARY 21,st and 2:2.nd, in the CoHege Center Pit ... from 9:30- 4:30 Arrest your friends/ room.mates for $3.00 -Or, want to get your professors back? Arrest 'em for only $5.00 *All long dista.nce phone calls are FREEl!! proceeds go~ to the American Cancer Society ·S.HOE by Jeff MacNelly OINN£R~ '/G. AGEfJT?. . J

CONCORDIENSIS, Februar-y I?, 1990 - SUMMER JOBS at CAMP SUSSEX Await You! Cabin and Speciality Counselors (male and · female) needed at this 8 week, overnight, co- · ·. ed camp in the beautiful mountains ·of • • Northern New Jersey. Also waterfr()llt, . , pioneering, and nursing jobs available. Call · . · Gary at (718) 261-8700or (609) 753-9265 J .A~P. ·Baiting: Ethnic Slur or Harmless Fun? Speaker: Professor Gary Spencer from Syracuse University When: Sunday, February 18, 1990 at 1:0() P.M. Where: College Center Auditorium . Co-Sponsored by the Jewish Student Union & The Office of Residence Life Bagels and other refreshments provided by · . KOACH Do You Want VISA & MasterCard STUDEf\IJ SERVICES · Credit Cards? . . . f'.O. SOX 2~.W26 HOLL YWOOO, FL 33022 : I . I j Now YOu r.a, ,.,_.._.e·1wo ol ·llle most recogmzed an aci:::.epted crct:!•t I 'l'\JV~·t , card5!,theworl~ .. V1SA• andMasterCar~c:redttt:~r.-ds .• \iBVIl\Jr I ~- 1 want VISA•tMasterCardl' . name\ EVEN IF VOU ARE NEW IN CREDIT or HAVE BEEN 'I d t ds. Encloaed find s 1 5 00 wh 1 ctl tS , TURN EO DOWN BEFORE! ere_ 1 car I looa& refundable 1f not aiJproved 1mme-<J•.wtely. 'f-' ~,p ... VISA• and Masie_rCartt- lhe·crsdlt e!!l rds I ,, \*~• , •' you dP.s.erve·and_naed {or~ 10 *' BOO.KS 1 ---:::------ '~ 6o 0 •'' + DEPARTMENTSTORES * TIIITIQN I NAME co \' I' 0 eQ *ENTERTAINMENT* EMERGEI\ICY CASH '. -<'· .._..,< ,. *TICKETS *'RESTAURAI>ITS I -----~- :. \ .;'' * HOTELS * GAS* ~J\R RENT/IoLS I : ~ orT * REPIIIRS * !Nil ro·su~LD AD CRESS ; · ~o · YO.UR CREDIT RATING' I . . I -----::::-:::------;:;:- 1 CITY STATE Z:IP I v ~ ·cuARANTEEDI , • GOLD CJ.RD I ~-~~-- : ·~~ VISA/MASlERCII:~D I PH()'IEt I (OUARANTEE'D ISS.UE' : ·I OR MONE't BACK 1 ·1 1 SOC SECURI\TY* I· .-pproval.ab,olLJ!ety I guoranle(l!S.so Hurry f1ll I .- - I oulftli;~cardtodav I SIGNATURE , - 1 Vourcredllcnrld!lare . .,.a.t•ng' I i.!i.i:j(j l·l·lbii+!IIJ·!!ii•H \1 1 L-...,. -·--------- J.!Av£ (ou_ FOR{zo771i:.v ]o PA( (ot..(,,e SEt/1~ (r_ I~ I I) J?.; VE Page 21 ANOTH£R 12 M I DOLE- OF THE- WJNTER 5UNDAY NIGHT? NEED THAT LAST .BURST OF PROCRAS Tl NATION? fPI!Jllf This Year, Win Prizes from: ~~~~il 'J11.e ~ik Ket\b and < Manohar India lmports(Wholesale) 163 Jay St. P .0. Box 835 '>cheneclady, NY 1230 1 377-7973 New England Fudge Co. at Jay St. Castel:! a's. Restaurant at 1· 487 State St. Peter Pause Restaurant on Nott St. The Hosts of Trivia 1990 Bruce Pennypacker, Nina Mehta, Kim Schaefer, Jim Bunch GOOD LUCK!

Page 22 CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1'990 <1Innrnrb1rnsfs Women's Losses Basketb:all :Suffers Two .500 to Drop Belo,w By RON BIRNBAUM The women's basketball squad suffered two home losses this week against Hartwick (57-36}and Dominican (57-51) to fall' to an 8~ 11 record. While the team had been predicted to lose to nationally-ranked Hartwick this past Wednesday, the defeat by Dominican was considered a big upset. Simply put, Hartwich was a better team, having lost only three games during seasonal play. Of their eleven bench members, the eight who played all scored .. While Union did come within six points of Hartwick in the first half, the score was driven back upwaid to an almosl insurmountable 25-10 by halftime. Union's offense improved slightly in the second period, but overall. the Dutchmen's shooting was poor. Said Assistant Coach Laurie Quattrini. \They shut down our offense. We played very well on defense but couldn't convert on the Mouthing Off Continued from page 23 Roseman, \they have a history of promoters buying judges and some of the most ludicrous decisions.\ This entire situation was ludicrous. Boxing needs to do something to polish its tarnished image. A step must be taken to rid the sport of greedy men like Don King and greedy, power~h ungry organizations like the WBA and WBC, so the careers of future promising fighters are not hurt the way Mike Tyson·~ career has been. offensive side.\ The Dominican game was disappointing as well. Dominican was the unranked underdog with a meager 5-16 record. Union did not play well against Dominican, however, as it was not mentally into the game and once again lacked the togetherness, intensity and teamwork required to run the ~ offense. Though not very strong, Dominican clearly wanted the win more and outhustled the Dutchwomen. With six minutes left in the second period, however, the Lady Dutchmen were able to come within two points of Dominican, coming back from a 12-point deficit. Yet Union repeatedly sent Dominican's best free throw shooter to the line on fouls, and she sank nine baskets. ln this game, sophomore forward Robin Romer and senior guard Gina Prokosch both hit double figures with 19 and 13 points, respectively. About the two games, Romer stated, \1 think we played strong, but tlley (Hartwick) had more talent. We didn't pl\y up to our full potential against Dominican.\ Prokosch added, \We should have beaten Dominican. We played poorly. Hartwick is just . a class A team. We played a ' great first half against them and lost the second half.\ With four scheduled games remaining,. three of them away, ~he team still has a good chance :of attaining its pre- ' season .500 goal. \We're expecting to finish the season strong,\' Quattrini stated. \If we played up to our potential we'd be a really tough team to beat. Hoepfully we will get it together for the last few games. The season has had it ups and downs but hopes to be up and stay up against Plattsburgh and during its remaining away games.\ 'The final home game of the season will take place on Tuesday, February 20 at 7:00 p.m. in :the .fieldhouse against RPI. Women's basketball is 9-11. The final home game is Tuesday against RPI at 7:00p.m. · Sign up now for ~ TRI-DELTA'S 2nd Annual JAIL A:No BAIL FE;BRUARY 21st and 22nd/ in the CoUeg·e Center Pit ... from 9:30- 4:30 Arrest your friends/ roommates for $3.00 -Or, want to g.et your professors back? Arrest 'em for only $5.00 *All long distance phone calls are FREE!!! proceeds go to the American Cancer Society Men's T;rack Team Gears U.p For Post-Seasoa Saturday., at the Colgate ·Invitational, the men's track team placed 6th out of fourteen teams. 'they .had an exceptional day With many Dutchmen settiQg seasonal bests. This should set them on the rigl!t track for the post~season which starts this weekend at the CTC''s (Coile gia:te Track Conferences). In the field events, Art Broga set a seasonal best of 6.68m ·in the. long jump, capturing third place. Bmga later came back with a fifth in the triple jump, sailing; 13.33m. The shot-put competition brought Union's Keith Reynolds a seasonal best with ll.32m. Shawn Mowry racked ~:~p another milestone with 1' 2. 08m in the 3 Slb. weight - his best. performance this season. On the track; chip Silver qualified for the finals in the 55rn lmrd1es with a time of 8.2 seconds. Rich Zem!}ek followed close behind in 9.0 seconds. In lhe SSm dash, Matt Peeker went to ~he finals with a time of 6.59 seconds; BiH Taylor and Jay Visandani poste-d a 6.86s and a 7A5s respectively. Taylor rh(m fought llis way to the top of LONDON his heat in the 200m with a time of 23.9:3s. Silver was second for the Dutchmen in 23.98s with Decker third in 24.12s. The 400m saw Will Allcpn finishing first for Union in 53.0. Senior Jeff Simkins finished the 500m in 1:07.0ne of the biggest races of the day for Union was the 800m. Juniors Bob Lindyberg and. Doug Martocci finished with times of 2:04:9 and 2:10 respectively. Undyberg wiU lead the Dutchmen's 800m t~m for the CTC's. The most exciting races of the meet were the 4 x 400m relay and the 4 x. 800m relay. The relays usually determine the outcome of the me.et and are always full of energy and pressure. Union's I600m relay team consisted of Will Allen, Chip Silver, Bob Lindyberg and Jeff Simkins. They finished with a time of 3:34. The last event of the day was the 3200m relay. Doug Martocci, Ed Dorsey, Mike Emmi and Adam Reisman covered the distance in 9:15:9. This weekend, Union Track travels to the CTC's to compete with some of New York State's top atbletes. The Arts. • F1nance/Econemrc Research/ Management • Human/Health Services Politics ··AdvertislngiPR/Marketing Jou rnal1s rnt Broadcast!F 1Im PARIS WASHINGTON M ed1a • Public Relations • Bus1ness Tounsm • Fash<on •· The Arts • Government ~aston lJnlveroS!t)' lnternet•ona 1· Pro·grams 725.CDrnmonwealth Avenue 82 Bos1on. MA 022\5 617 3!1.3 9BBB Pdlit1cs • Busmess/Econom1cs • Pre·Law ll'ltematlanal Relat<ons • Journalism/ Communications • Health F1elds ·The Arts E.acn 14-week in1ernship prog'fam includes: 1.6 Bos1on University semeste·r·hour credits, full·time internships, course work taught by local faculty. centrally located housing, and ir1dividualized placements for virtually every ~cademic interest. Programs in London and Paris are offered during the spring, fall. and summer. The Washington program is oftered during the fall and spring. BOSTON UNIVERSITY An equal opparrumty, afftrmahve act1on mstJtutron A representative from 8<Jston University will be on campus: INFORMATION SESSION FEBRUARY 8, 4:00- 5:00PM HUMANITIES FACULTY LOUNG.E -- ----- ---------------------------------------- ---·--·------·- ____ ., Name ________________ _ Address--------- Ci1y ----State __ Zip_ Colleg,e/lJniversity ~----- _ Stommer _ Fall _. &pnng 19 _ __ London Internship Programme _The Arts _. _ Finance /Economic Research/ Management __ liuman/Health Serv>ces _Politics _ Advertis<ng/PR/Market<ng _Journalism/Broadcast/Film _ Paris Internship Program -. Wash<ngton·lnternship Program Spring Training is not coming tc 11 blllfNIIt near yw '

( CONCORDIENSIS, February 15, 1990 Page 23 SPORTS· Mouthing Off Women's Swim Team Ends Season With Perfect 9-·0 Record By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor I wotdd like to apologize. In · thi:s column last week, I inadvertantly omitted a fiEal point which adds to tile , , controversy about, and which :By MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Edlt&r The women's swim tearn defeated Albany State, 132-59, last Wednesday to become the first undefeated women's swim team in Union history .and thus earning the entire team the Athlete of the Week award. The te~m ended the season with a 9-0 record l;lJ.ld is currently looking forward to the state meet which will be held at Hamilton: Last season the team finished fourth, but this season they are looking to take 'home the ch.atnJ>ionship This year's team~ is a very well- rounded one, as Union normally places at least one swimmer in the t<>p three places in each event. Last season the team set several school records Which have yet to fall this .season. Coach Basssett is h()ping that the team will peak at the state meet ~nd thus break some of those records. The team will be :looking to several of its membe-rs to turn m key petforamnceS!kttb:e state me.et.' Last seasort, junior Kathy Kavaney took home the - state title i.n the lOOmeter fly, She is now a senior., and she wiH include teammattCs Jeanne <;utrope and Sharon Gatt. These· three swimmers· along with Anne Glickslllan .• Amy O'Neil, and Melita Walsh will also attempt to win the 200, 400 and 800 freestyle ra~s~ The women's swim team at · Union has come a Jong way since its' first season in 1983- 84. The team did not w:in more than three meets in a season until 1987-88, when Coach The 1990Women's swim team . Bassett arrived. During the past · can be detrimental to, sports-- three seasons, Union has a ·,. greed, Many athletes, as well combined 25-2 record in dual as people who surround aad meets. Coach Bassett also advise these athletes, become registered her lOOth career blinded by dollar signs and l<Jse victory this season, a sight of what and who they are milesstone for any coach. competing for. When salaries With the depth and and purses become so greatth.at determination of this season's the scruples and class of an team, Union ,has an excellent individual can rot away with chance to take home the State every additional dollar, the title; sporting world is in trouble. It becomes threatened by the SEASON SCOREBOARD individual athlete whose vision Union 134, Plattsburgh 76 Union 155, Skidmore 65 Union 152.5, Middlebury 83.5 Union 194, Williain Smith 104 Union 119, RPI 62 Union 124, Hartwick 98 pnion 147,.Vassar 87 UniQn 146, Hamilton 91 Union 132, Albany 59 is blurreq and by those arotJhd him wh<> do not try and f()cus his eyesight. Mike Tyson has tllis problem. He is greedy. 1'be FORMER Heavyweight Champion of the World violently fell from the heights of invincibility this past weekend. Tyson was bruised, battered, and beaten by a man who did not let his. wallet interfere .and corrupt !tis professionalism. James 'Buster' Doug1as fought the perfect fight agaimt an opponent who, until Saturday night in Tokyo, bad been nothing but perfect. 1'he challenger flattened and halted the previously undefeated champion in the lOth round. [Douglas was the first of . Tyson's 38 opponents to kn<Jck him to the canvas.] But this is where things get comp1icate<l. The ensuing controversy [this word seems to pop up whenever Don King is in any what involved in things]-- was Douglas saved by the referee's \long count\ when Tyson knocked him down in the eighth round-- has since Women's Track Team. Place Third Against Stiff Competition muddled an extraordiury impressive clear cut victory by Douglas. The 29-year-old Columbus, Ohio fighter, a huge underdog (somewhere around 45-1} fought the fight of his life to pull off one ofthe greatest upsets in, not only history of boxing, but in all sports. :By THE SPORTS STAFF This past Saturday found the Women's Indoor Track Team at Colgate University for the · annual Colgate Invitational, After a weekend off, the women proved th~y can hold their own against tough competition. Cortland, a Division 1 team, won the meet with 169 points. Second were defending Div. 3 state. champions, Ithaca Colleg.e with 73.5 points, and Union was third , ahead of rival Hartwick, with 34 IJ<>ints. The day started out with a bang in the field events as sophomore Alix Goldschmidt took sceond in both the weight and the shot put, with throws of 10.41 and 11.8 rS'jleetively. Freshman Lori Simkins took third in the weigllt with a throw of 9.09 and threw 9.69 . in the shot put. Senior Beth Jewett showed .her versatili~y by competing in bofu the field events and on the ttack. In the field events Jewitt tllrew 10.19 for sixth place in tlke shot put and then she took to the track. Jewet fared well in ller first- ever hutdle race for Union, as · well as her first 400. Senior Alison Williams alsCJ competed in the 400 and .ran a 64.51 for a personal record and state qualifying time, a:nd then ran the 200 meter dash. Al$o in the sprint events was s;ophomore Denise Saunders l'unning a 7.74 in the 55 meter dash and a 28.6 in the 2QO me:te:r dash. Moving in to tltie longer races, Union continll.ed to show their Stl}ength. .SI()phomore Dawn Harrington !tad a long day which started by running the 1500. Later .irn the day Harrington was orne of five Union women to run in the 800 meters; The other four Union women were junior co- captain Meg Parsons, sophomores Sandy Anselment, Cyndi Hunter,. and co-captainn Rika Poor. All five of the women ran strong races with Poor p.lacing sixth. The distance events were finished with junior Theresa Sibeni and freshman Jen Robbins racing in the 3000 meter run. The day finished with the relays. The mile relay consisting of Williams, Saunders, Jewiu, and Harrington ran a respectable race which was followed by the well-run two mile relay .. The two mile relay team was made up of Parsons, Poor, Anselment, and Hunter and placed third overall. The team worked hard and deserved their third place finish .. The team has finished their regular season with a 1-1 dual meet record and a 19-2 invitational record. Starting this weekend, the team moves into post-season competition. Unfortunately, what seemed like a great success story, an against-all :odds'- type of victDry, has been reduced to notlling more than a platter of week-dd sushi. And believe me, the stench is enough to kill even the strongestof fighters~ A little more than six !lours after The Upset, a seccmd press conference was held. Tyson, along with his mana:ger or promoter [or whatever yo\1 want to call him] Don King; protested the fight. They believed that Douglas had been given a long count by the referee, Octavia Me yran Sanchez. and in actuality should have been ruled dtlwn for the count. The replay showed that VI' hen Douglas· was knocked down. Sanchez leaped to his side :and • after .a pause~ began cou11ting with his fingers so Douglas could see what the count was. Under the rules of boxing, a fighters is counted out if he fails to rise before the referee counts to ten. Douglas arose as .Sanchez raohed a count of nine, but Tyson and King protested that Douglas had .bene down for 12 seconds. Referee Sanchez agreed that he had been slow begiJ:ming his count and tltat he lagged behind the count of the official timekeeper. In any event, it is the responsibility oif the fighter to take the count from the referee, who is obliged to pick it up from the official timekeeper. Because of the question in the minds of the beleaguered champion and his money hungry 'advisor', two of the governing bodies of boxing refused to rec;ognize James 'Buster' Douglas as Heavyweight Champion of the World. Jose Sulaiman, president of the World Boxing Association, said their organizations would hold special meetings to determine what action they should take. The third major governing body, the International Boxing Federation, did recognize Douglas as their champin, citing that he won by a \clear\ knockout. The only thing is clear at this point is the odor of the rotten sushi. Most of the problems have now been resolved because the money has been handed out. Douglas, who has since been recognized by the WBA as the Champion, will fight Tyson again in June in Atlantic City at one of Donald Trump's casinos (that is, if his wife doesn't get them), and the winner will fight number one contender Evander Holyfield in September. They will all get their share of the greenbacks and, I am sure, will be able to buy as much fresh sushi as they desire. But what of the controversy? King, who is a convicted felon, and Sulaiman, who was convicted of stealing Mexican art treasures from a national museum, must have decided that they would both receive more money if they resolved it. King gets a large cut of Tyson's earnings and the WBC gets as much as 5% of the purse in title fights. And what of the referees. Only one, Larry Rozadilla of the United States, saw the fight the way the rest of the world saw it. He had Douglas way ahead on points and rounds. The other two, both Japanese men, saw a fight of their own. Somehow, Ken Morita actually had Tyson leading by a point while Masakazu Uchida had the score tied. What a controversy this would have been if Tyson had won a decision. But it doesn't surprise me when there is so much money involved. \ln Japan and Korea,\ said the IBF spokesman, Sy Continued on page 22 ..,.

Jerry Brescia dribbles down court. Bresc·ia is shootin!J 47% from 3 point distance t·his season. Brian Lucey and Ron Kinghorn keeping the zone clear against Bowdoin. Unipn lost 5•4 in a tight checking game. Men's Basketball Team Finishes Week at 2-1, Pulls to .500 Mark By DAVID SACHAR With dramatic wins o-ver Hartwick and St. Lawrence and a tough loss to Clarkson, the Dutchmen basketball team has completed twenty games of the season and stand with a rec<Jrd of 10-10. With just six :games- remaining, the Dutchmen are looking for a return trip to the ECAC playoffs. T'lle Dutchmen were eliminate<l in the first round of the playoffs last year by Albany State. Last Wednesday night at Memorial Field House, the Dutchmen overcame Hartwick's late rally led by guard Joe Britton's three point shooting and were able to escape with a 59-56 victory. The Dutchmen used a balanced scori11g. attack as seven players scored, with Brendan Chudy being the high man for Union with 1 7 points. The freshman hit 4 of 9 from the field, shot 9 of I 0 from the line, and pulled down 5 rebounds. His driving, off. balance lay-up in the closing minutes helped to preserve the Dutchman win. . The Dutchmen then travcUed Union 59 Clarkson 74 Union 68 M.e,n's. ··Hobart 148 to Clarkson where ~hey were unable to stop guard Ken Coard. Coard finished the game with 28 points and six rebounds. Once again, though, Union turned out another balanced attack as three players scored in double figures. Jerry Brescia led the Dutchmen with 14 points, while Dave Sussman and Greg Dolan each pumped in 12 points. Union rounded out the week by journeying to St. Lawrence. Just as the football team had miraculously rallied there in the fall from an almost certain defeat, the basketball team found themselves in quite a similar situation. Trailing by four with under 1:30 to play in the game, Jerry Brescia nailed two three pointers. including the game winner with :04 seconds to give the Dutchmen a 68-65 win. BFescia finished the game with 21 points, an of which came from behind the three point lines. For the season, Brescia has bit 73 three point baskets in 157 attempts. This translates to an astounding shooting percentage of nearly 4 7%. February 15, 1990 -Skating Dutchmen. Drown fNot So) Great Lakers · By ANDREW SEEWALD Edito.r-in-·Chief The Union hockey team had not had a night like this one for a long time. Sure, they scored five goals in one period last week against Hamilton, but this past Tuesday at Achilles Rink an four Dutchmen lines kept coming and the goals were coming just as fast. Guy Logan and Bill· Railton had l!at tricks, Tim Cregan had a ·g()al and three assists, Dan Gould had a goal and two assists, and Marc Goguen pitched in with three assists. Craig Ferrero and Darrell Gustafson each had two assists, and Union's ailing power:..play revived to score four times. Neediess to say, the Dutchmen wo11~ by a score of 10-3 over the Oswego St. Great Lakers. It \Vas the highest offensive out.J)ut of the season for Union, bes1ing the previous mark of seven at AIC on December 5. B11t for all of the impressive nurnbers already mentioned, perlmps the biggest goal of the game came off the stick of soph()more Dalton Gustafson; Darrell's little brother. Dalton was inserted into the lineup because Rick Clifford had separated his shoulder during Saturday's game against Bowdoin, a 5-4 loss. · A fourth line was created consisting of the Gustafson br(}tbcrs along with Nick Bara1off at right wing. With Uni<>n leading 2-1, Baratoff went into the right wing comer and 'Centered the puck. Both Gustafsons were positioned in front, but Dalton was able tc:> · get his stick on it first and deflect it past Oswego goalLendcr Michael Tetrault to give the Dutchmen a 3-1 lead at 3:10 of the .second period. It . was Dalton's first varsity goal ofhis.carcer. \That's why a Dalton • Gustafson is in the lineup. He comes and he's going to play hard.\ said Union coach Bruce Del venthal. Uilion improved its record to 12-7-3, ·10-5-3 in the ECAC. The Dutchmen have four games left., three at home. Canisius will be at Achilles Rink Friday night at 7:30. The team will then leave immediately after the game for St. Anselm's, where they will play Friday afternoon at 2:00. · Gustafson's goal triggered a second period outburst tha:t saw Union outscore Oswego 5-1 to open up a 7-2 bulge heading into the third period. Logan scored his second goal .of the. game at 6:31, with an assist to Terry Campbell. Bill Railton picked up a loose puck in front and scored his second goal ·of the · game, from Gould and Goguen, at 12:05. That goal sent Tetrault to the showers, but the change in goaltenders for Oswego hardly cooled off the Dutchmen. Less than a minute after Railton's goal, Logan greeted new netminder Bill Snyder with a hard wrist shot to the left of Snyder and into the goal. For Logan, it was his first hat trick . of the season and it also boosted him to the 60-goal milestone for his career. He has 16 goals this season, tops on the team, despite having served a three game suspension a couple of weeks ago. Tony Calandra scored for the Lakers at 17:02 to cut the lead to 6-2, but Dan Gould .struck right back for Union. Gould took a pass right in front, and, while being checked by a defenseman, whirled and fired past Sny(ier fer hs fifth goal of the season at 17:26. Even though Union was already up big, it was still an important goal for the Dutchmen. Oswego is a talented offensive team, which, if allowed to gain confidence, is capable ·flf contending with better teams. \1 like it when a team answers goals,\ said DelventhaL In the third period, Oswego played like an exhausted and overmatched road team, and Union scored three more times. Tim Cregan, Bill Railton and Peter Cotier scored the Dutchmen goals. John .Stringfellow, Oswego's leading . scorer, put one past Shayne White, who came in to replace Ron Kinghorn with the Dutchmen comfotiably ahead,· to round out the scoring. The game did not start as s~ccessfully as lt .ended for Union. The Dutchmen had five power-plays, including one five~minute major, in the period, yet they were only able to ·build a 2-1 lead. Logan and Railton had the goals, both on the power-play .. The Lak:ers had to feel good about trailing by only one goal, so what did Coach Delventhal tell his players that made them come out so well in the second period? \We didn't play,\ he told :them. \We have a lead. We could have a bigger lead. Let's go out and play hockey because it doesn't look like they (Oswego) want to play.\ It all goes back to desire, then, and Delventhal knew that Dalton Gustafson would bring that. On Tuesday. he brought it and shared it with all of his teammates. Clifford hopes to be back for the playoffs. Greg Eccleston, also out with a separated shoulder, should be ready to play by this Tuesday's game against Middlebury at Achilles. Terry. Campbell reached the hundred-point mark with his assist in Saturday's loss to Bowdoin. Union beat Colb'y, ·5-2, last Friday night. HOCKEY STATS G A Pts Guy Logan 16 8 24 Terry Campbell 4 17 21 Dan Gould 5 15 ~ Craig Ferrero 9 9 18 Marc Goguen 5 12 17 Bill Railton 9 6 15 Scott Whitney 4 10 14 Dalton Menhall 8 4 12 Rick Clifford 4 8 12 Bill Sedergren 1 11 12 Tim Cregan 4 7 11 Nick Baratof.f 3 5 8 Mike Flanagan 3 5 8 Peter Cotier 2 6 8 Greg Eccleston 3 4 7 Oar. Gustafson 3 3 6 Dave Moody 2 3 5 Rrck Burchill 2 1 3 Greg Steele 1 2 3 Dal Gustafson 1 0 1 Brian Lucey 0 1 1 Chris LaBruzzo 0 1 1 Tim Mashie 0 1 1 ' .I

z Q 1- ~ c: 0 u. ;?; Ul 6: 0 a. Ul z Q i 0 Ll. ;?; Ul ~ 0 a. Ul Jerry Brescia dribbles down court. Brescia is shooting 47c!o from 3 point distance this season. Brian Lucey and Ron Kinghorn keep'i,ng the zone clear agairnst Bowdoin. Union lost 5-4 in a tight ,checking game. Men's Basketball Team Finishes Week at 2-1, Pulls to .500 Mark By DAVID SACHAR With dramatic wins over Hartwkk and St. Lawrence and a tough loss to Clarkson, the Dutchmen basketball team has completed twenty games of the season and stand with a record of 10-10. With just six games remaining, the Dutchmen arc looking for a return trip to the ECAC playoffs. The Dutchmen were eliminated in the first round of the playoffs last year by Albany State. Last Wednesday night at Memorial Field House, the Dutchmen overcame Hartwick's late rally led by guard Joe Britton's three point shooting and were able to escape with a 59-56 victory. The Dutchmen used a balanced scoring attack as seven players scored, with Brendan Chudy being the high man for Union with 17 points. The freshman hit 4 of 9 from the field, shot 9 of 10 from the line, and pulled down 5 rebounds. His driving, off- balance lay-up in the closing minutes helped to preserve the Dutchman win. The Dutchmen then travelled to Clarkson where they were unable to stop guard Ken Coard. Coarct finished the game with 28 points and six rebounds. Once again, though, Unio11 turned out another balanced attack as three players scored in double figures. Jerry Brescia led the Dutchmen with 14 points, while Da vc Sussman and Greg Dolan each pumped in 12 points. Union rounded out the week by journeying to St. Lawrence. Just as the football team had miraculously rallied there in the fall from an almost certain defeat, the basketball team found Lhemselves in quite a similar situation. Trailing by four with under 1:30 to play in the game, Jerry Brescia nailed two three pointers including the game winner with :()4 seconds to give the Dutchmen a 68-65 win. Brescia finished the game with 21 points, all of which came from behind the three point lines. For the season, Brescia has hit 73 three point baskets iH 157 attemph. This translates to an astounding shooting pcrcentagl~ of nearly 47%. SCOREBOARD Hockey 11-7·3 Union 5 Bowdoin 5 Union 10 Colby 2 Union 4 Oswego 3 Men's Union 59 Clarkson 74 Union 68 Basketball 10•10 Hartwick 56 Union 64 St. Lawrence 65 Women's Hartwick 57 Dominican 57 Union 74 Basketball 9-11 Union 36 Union 51 Plat1sburgh 53 Men's Swimming 5-4 Hobart 148 Union 88 Women's Swimmlng 9-0 Union 132 Albany 59 February 15, 1990 Skating Dutchmen Drown (Not So) Great Lakers By ANDREW SEEWALD Editor-in-Chid The Union hockey team had not had a night like this one for a long time. Sure, they scored five goals in one period last week against Hamilton, but this past Tuesday at Achilles Rink all four Dutchmen lines kept coming and the goals were coming just as fast. Guy Logan and Bill Railton had hat tricks, Tim Cregan had a goal and three assists. Dan Gould had a goal and two assists, and Marc Goguen pitched in with three assists. Craig Ferrero and Darrell Gustafsoneach had two assists, and Union's ailing power-play revived to score four times. Needless to say, the Dutchmen won, by a score of 1 0-3 over the Oswego St. Great Lakers. It was the highest offensive output of the season for Union, besting the previous mark of seven at AIC on December 5. But for all of the impressive numbers already mentioned, perhaps the biggest goal of the game carne off the stick of sophomore Dalton Gustafson, Darrell's little brother. Dalton was inserted into the lineup because Rick Clifford had separated his shoulder during Saturday's game against Bowdoin, a 5-4 loss. A fourth line was created consisting of the Gustafson brothers along with Nick Baratoff .at right wing. With Union le:ading 2-1, Baratoff went into the right wing corner and centered the puck. Both Gustafsons were positioned in front, but Dalton was able to get his stick on it first and deflect it past Oswego goaltender Mi<.:hael TcLrault to give the Dutchmen a 3-1 lead at 3:10 of the second period. It was Dalton's first varsity goal of his career. \That'~ why a Dalton Gustafson is in the lmcup. H.c comes and he's going to play hard,\ said Union coach Bruce Del vent hal. Union improved itc; record to 12-7-3, W-5-3 in the ECAC. The Dutchmen have four games left, three at home. Canisius will be at Achilles Rin:k Friday night at 7:30. The team will then leave immediately after the game for St. Anselm's, where they will play Friday afternoon at 2:00. Gustafson's goal triggered a second period outburst that saw Union outscore Oswego 5-1 to open up a 7-2 bulge heading into the third period. Logan scored his second goal of the game at 6:31, with an assist to Terry Campbell. Bill Railton picked up a loose puck in front and scored his second goal of the game, from Gould and Goguen, at 12:05. That goal sent Tetrault to the showers, but the change in goaltenders for Oswego hardly cooled off the Dutchmen. Less than a minute after Railton's goal, Logan greeted new netminder Bill Snyder with a hard wrist shot to the left of Snyder and into the goal. For Logan, it was his first hat trick of the season and it also boosted him to the 60-goal milestone for his career. He has 16 goals this season, tops on the team, despite having served a three game suspension a couple of weeks ago. Tony Calandra scored for the Lakers at 17:02 to cut the lead to 6-2, but Dan Gould struck right back for Union. Gould took a pass right in front, and, while being checked by a defenseman, whirled and fired past Snyder for hs fifth goal of the season at 17: 26. Even though Union was already up big, it was still an important goal for the Dutchmen. Oswego is a talented offensive team, which, if allowed to gair~ confidence, is capable of contending with better teams. \I like it when a team answers goals,\ said Delventhal. In the third period, Oswego played like an exhausted and overmatched road team, and Union scored three more times. Tim Cregan, Bi II Railton and Peter Cotier scored the Dutchmen goals. John Stringfellow, Oswego's leading scorer, put one past Shayne White, who came in to replace Ron Kinghorn with the Dutcllmen comfortably ahead, to round out the scoring. The game did not start as successfully as it ended for Union. The Dutchmen had five power-plays, including one five-minute major, in the period, yet they were only able to build a 2-1 lead. Logan and Railton had the goals, both on the power-play. The Lakers had to feel good about trailing by only one goal, so what did Coach Delventhal tell his players that made them come out so well in the second period? \We didn't play,\ he told them. \We have a lead. We could have a bigger lead. Let's go out and play hockey because it doesn't look like they (Oswego) want to play.\ It all goes back to desire, then, and Delventhal knew that Dalton Gustafson would bring that. On Tuesday, he brought it and shared it with all of his teammates. Clifford hopes to be back for the playoffs. Greg Eccleston, also out with a separated shoulder, should be ready to play by this Tuesday's game against Middlebury at Achilles. Terry Campbell reached the hundred-point mark with his assist in Saturday's loss to Bowdoin. Union beat Colby, 5-2, last Friday night. HOCKEY ST A TS Guy Logan Terry Campbell Dan Gould Craig Ferrero Marc Goguen Bill Railton Scott Whitney Dalton Menhall Rick Clifford Bill Sedergren Tim Cregan Nick Baratoff Mike Flanagan Peter Co tier Greg Eccleston Dar. Gustafson Dave Moody Rick Burchill Greg Steele Dal. Gustafson Brian Lucey Chris LaBruzzo Tim Mashie G A Pts 16 8 24 4 17 21 5 15 2) 9 9 18 5 12 17 9 6 15 4 10 14 8 4 12 4 8 12 1 11 12 4 7 11 3 5 8 3 5 8 2 6 8 3 4 7 3 3 6 2 3 5 2 1 3 1 2 3 1 0 1 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 1 1

Vol. CXIX, No. 14. Schenectady, New York !=! 0 ·:I: 0..· w ...J. u:: The Nott Me moria I awaits funding fo.r construction and rehabilitation. Nott Appeal Hits Alumni for Donations By MATT LANNI In an effert to raise money for the rehabilitation of the Nott Memorial, Union College is sending out donation appeals tC> alumni. The Nott Memorial . Appeal is headed by trustee emeritus John Davis of the class of 1937. The brochure being sent out requests that alumni give \above and beyond normal Annual Fund gifts .. \ According to Vice President of Financial Resources Rol>ert Rassmussen, this is the firs.t time ever that alumni have been asked to give more than their normal cuntributions to the Annual Fund. The College hopes to receive $2.75 million for the Annual Fund plus an additional $1 million for the rehabilitation of the Nott. College plans to rehabilitate the upper dome, ...... , the drum wall, · the stairted glass windows, and tll.e masonry exterior.\ \Actual physical work probably will not begin until th\e spring of 1991,\ commented R!ls.smussen. Rasmussen based :tl:~is date on s'everal factors. Filrst. the 1 College will pick an engineering firm ill Lhe spring who will c.onduct a study to determine the corrCiCt way to fix the building. The firm will then go through tile selection process of hiring ~ contractor to do the actual vvork. This process is expecte([ to take at least one year. A stll-dy done by an architectural firm concludes that the MemoriaJ should be fine until then, with the help of a few braces already in- place on the sides of the ])uilding. \We want to tak:e. time to do it right, so we wo11't have to do it over,\ {)Oncludes Rassmussen. School Teachers To Receive Citations Three schoolteachers. nominated by Union students who once had them as teachers, will receive the first Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award from Union atthe 11:30 a.m. Founders Day program on Feb. 22 in Memorial Chapel. The teachers and the students who nominated them are Frederick Clarke, a mathematics teacher from Case Junior High School, Watertown Kimberly Tillotson '90, mechanical engineering major; BarryCrossman, a Cicero-North Syracuse ·High School chemistry teacher -- Michelle Montoney '91, a biology major; and Dr. Bruce Bidwell, English teacher at Liverpool High School -- LoriEstes '91, English major. The award is given to junior and senor high school teachers in New YorJ.<. state in recogniation of the continuing positive influence they have on the academic life of students at Union. It is named for Gideon Hawley, a Union graduate of 1809. who was distinguished for his educational leadership and concern for teacher . development in the state. The preliminary cost of rehabilitating the Nott Memorial is estimated at $5 million. The College has already allotted $3.4 million tuwards the cost and bas received a grant from New York State for $300,000. The College is also applying for additional f\lnding from the state. Flasher·Apprehended by Local Police With th:is money \the Union students needed for positive ID. \By STEVEN CARR Last weekend, the Schenectady police were finally able to arrest one ()f the alleged flashers who have been causing problems on cartl]TUS over the winter term. The suspect was sighted at the Price Chopper supermarket on Eas.tem Avenue by two victims of tbe recent incident in the Science and Engineering building. When the suspect was br()ught in for questioning, the police were able to persuade llim to confess to two of the recl(llt incidents; including the ()ne in the Science and Eng-ineering building. In order to finali2e the arrest, the students now will have to identify the ma11 in a photo array at the polic:.e station. The sentence depends ~eatly on the specifics of the case, for example, the criminal's previous police record and general background. In response to the recent incidents, four victims assisted the Schenectady police in the construction of suspect composites. The students and police worked together using what is called an identi-Kit, which consists of cards with pictures of facial features used to put together an approximation of the suspects• faces. In this way, the police were able to attain fairly accurate representations of the suspects, to be distributed at Union College and the surrounding community. Hopefully, these efforts will lead to more arrests in the near future. February 22, 199() UNION COLLEGE REVISED SOCIAL POLICY Permission to sponsor a,Rd hqst social events involving alcohol will be granted only to persons who a,re at least 21 years .of age and assume respoAsibility for: 1. Registering the event in the Dean of Students' Office and the Office of Security and Safety, if the attendanoo will exceed 20 guests. 2. Issuing invitations and ensuring that only invited guests atatend. 3. Adhering to all NY St~te laws and COllege Policies. 4. Providing an att[active and substantial offering of non alcoholic beverages and .food (minimum requirement: a drink dispenser with one non-alcoholic beverage ahd a table of snack foods) . 5. Cleaning up outside refuse by 11 :00 am following the event, and indoo~s by 3:00pm following the event. 6. Requiring that .no person leave the event with an alcoholic beverage 7. Posting a sign with security's phone number and the escort service phone number at the exit, and a sign behind the bar explaining that alcohol will not be served to minors. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS 1. No student organization, clup or society may use fLJnds allocated by the Student Forum or other College office for purchasing or providing alcohol. When acting o.n behalf of the organization, only individuals over 21 may sponsor an event at which alcohol is served. 2. Students or student organizations are not permitted to arrange for alcohol to be delivered by outside vendors at any time. 3. Registered private events may take place on Friday and Saturday nights only between the hours of 4 pm and 2 am. No such events may take place after the 9th week of any academic term. 4. All outdoor events with I ive or\ recorded music may take place only between 4 pm and 7 pm on Friday and between 1 prn and 7 pm on Saturday {Spring Term Only}. Only one such event may be scheduled on the campus per <lay. Revised Social Policy Yields Satisfactory Results By JAY FREELAND News Editor This week, the Interfraternity · Council and Student Affairs Council passed recent proposals to amend Union College's social policy. The amendments came after strict criticism of the previously adopted policy. The new revisions come in four main parts. The first two were the most highly debated. Under the old policy, only three twenty-one year olds could register a social function. and the fraternity or sorority name could not be used on the registration. This has now been changed so that fraternity or sorority insurance can be activated in the event of an accident The third part deals with the collection of house funds for tile purchase of alcohol. 1'he old policy stated that this was banned at Union College. The revision leaves the decision up to the national law of .each Greek organization on campus. The last part of the revisions states that tile signs with the phone number .of security as well as the escort service must be posted in the hosting house. Signs must also be posted behind the bar stating that alcohol will not be served to minors. One revision that was not passed despite pressure from IFC is that beer distributors are .still forbidden from distributing to the campus. Photo .of the Week: The wome11's swim team moved to #1 in the state this week.

Vol. CXlX, No. 14 0 5 :c c. l!LI :::! 1.1.. Schenectady, New York School Teachers To Receive Citations The Nott Memorial awaits funding for construction and rehabilitation. Three schoolteachers, nominated by Union students who once had them as teachers, will receive the first Gideon Hawley Teacher Recognition Award from Union at the 11:30 a.m. Founders Day program on Feb. 22 in Memorial Chapel. Nott Appeal Hits Alumni for Donations .By MATT LANNI In an effort to raise money for the rehabilitation of the Nott Memorial, Union College is sending Ollt donation appeals to alumni. The Nott Memorial Appeal is l1eaded by trustee emeritus John Davis of the class of 1937. The brochure being sent out requests that alumni give \above and beyond normal Annual Fund gifts.\ According to Vice Presidenl of Financial ResouFces Robert Rassmussen, this is the first time ever tb.at alumni have been asked to give more than their normal contributions t() the Annual Fund. The College hopes to receive $2.75 million for the Annual Fund plus an additional $1 million for the rehabilitation of the Nott. The preliminary cost of rehabilitating the NoH Memorial is estimated at $5 million. The College has already allotted S3 .4 million towards the cost and has received a grant from New York State for $300,000. The College is also ap-plying for additional funding from the state .. With this money \the Sp,ring Pf'~ak? ;..page'S. · ; -,-, ·~-' ~~( Buenos dias from Spain .. page 10 Wotnen•s swim team #1 in state .. page 24 College plans to rehabilitate the upper dome, .... , the drum wall, the stained glass windows, and the masonry exterior.\ \Actual physical work probably will not begin until the spring of 1991,\ commented Rassmussen. Rasmussen based this date on several factors. First, the College will pick an engineering firm in the spring who will conduct a study to determine the correct way to fix. the building. The firm will then go through the selection process of hiring a contractor to do the actual work. This process is expected to take at least one year. A study done by an architectural firm concludes that the Memorial should be fine until then, with the help of a few braces already in place on the sides of the building. \We want to take time to do it right, so we won't have to do it over,\ concludes Rassmussen. The teachers and the students who nominated them are Frederick Clarke, a mathematics teacher from Case Junior High School, Watertown Kimberly Tillotson '90, mechanical engineering major; BarryCrossman, a Cicero-North Syracuse High School chemistry teacher -- Michelle Montoney '91, a biology major; and Dr. Bruce Biuwell, English teacher at Liverpool High School -- Lori Estes '91, English major. The award is given to junior and senor high school teachers in New York state in recogniation of the continuing positive influence they have on the academic life of students at Union. It is named for Gideon Haw ley, a Union graduate of 1809, who was distinguished for his educational leadership and concern for teacher development in the state. Flasher Apprehended by Local Police Union students needed for positive ID Ey STEVEN CARR Last weekend, the Schenectady police were finally able to arrest one of the ~leged flashers who have been causing problems on campus over the winter term. The suspect was sighted at the Price Chopper supermarket on Eastern A venue by two victims of the recent incident in the Science and Engineering building. When tile suspect was brought in for questioning, the police were able to persuade him to confess to two of the recent incidents, including the one in the Science and Engineering building. In order to finalize the arrest, the students now will have to identify the man in a photo array at the police station. The sentence depends greatly on the specifics of the case, for example, the criminal's previous police record and general background. In response to the recent incidents, four victims assisted the Schenectady police in the construction of suspect composites. The students and police worked together using what is called an identi-Kit, which consists of cards with pictures of facial features used to put together an approximation of the suspects' faces. In this way, the police were able to attain fairly accurate representations of the suspects, to be distributed at Union College and the surrounding community. Hopefully, these efforts will lead to more arrests in the near future. February 22, 1990 UNION COLLEGE REVISED SOCIAL POLICY Permission to sponsor and host social events involving alco hoi will be granted only to persons who are at least 21 years of age and assume responsibility for: 1. Registering the event in the Dean of Students' Office and the Office of Security and Safety, if the attendance will e;<ceed 20 guests. 2. Issuing invitations and ensuring that only invited guests atatend. 3. Adhering to all NY State laws and College Policies. 4. Providing an attractive and substantial offering of non alcoholic beverages ;;nd food (minimum requiremr>nt ~ drinl< dic::pfln\'''\ with one non-alcoholic beverage and a table of snack foods). 5. Cleaning up outside refuse by 11:00 am following the event, and indoors by 3:00pm following the event. 6. Requiring that no person leave the event with an alcoholic beverage. 7. Posting a sign with security's phone number and the escort service phone number at the exit, and a sign behind the bar explaining that alcohol will not be served to minors. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS 1. No student organization, club or society may use funds allocated by the Student Forum or other College office for purchasing or providing alcohol. When acting on behalf of the organization. only individuals over 21 may sponsor an event at which alcohol 15 served. 2. Students or student organizati::ms are not perm11ted to arrange for alcohol to be delivered by outside vendors at any time 3. Registered private events may take place on Friday and Saturday nights only between the hours of 4 pm and 2 am. No sLtch events may take place after the 9th week of any academic term. 4. All outdoor events with live or recorded music may take place only between 4 pm and 7 pm on Friday and between 1 pm and 7 pm on Saturday (Spring Term Only). Only one such event may b~ scheduled on the campus per day. Revised Social Policy Yields Satisfactory Results accident By JAY FREELAND News Editor This week, the Intcrfratem ity Council and Student Affairs Council passed recent proposals to amend Union College's social policy. The amendments came after strict criticism of the previously adopted policy. The third part deals with the collection or house funds for the purchase of alcohol. !he old policy stated that this wa' banned at Union College. The revision leaves the decision up to the national la-w or each Greek organi2ation on campus. The new revisions come in four main parts. The first two were the most highly debated. Under the old policy, only tluee twenty·one year olds could register a social function, and the fraternity or sorority name could not be used on the registration. This has now been changed so that fraternity or sorority insurance can be activated in the event of an The last part of the rc\'isions states that the sigm with the phone number of security as well as the escort service must be posted in the hosting house. Signs must also be posted behind the bar stating 1hat alcohol will not be served to minors. One revision that was not passed despite pressure from IFC is that beer distributors are still forbidden from distributing to the campus. 0 b :::r:: Q. w I~ Photo of the Week: The women's swim team moved to #1 in the state this week.

Pa~e 2 CONCORDIENSIS, February 22., 1990 : <linttnlrbtrnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Who Will Win the Nicaraguan Elections? l~y CARL B. DICKSON This Sunday, February 25, will be a crucial day for the future of Nicaragua, Central America, and the United States' p()licy towards that region. Nicaraguans head to the polls for the second time since the Sandinistas took power in 1979 in the most heavily scrutinized elections in recent, t i1nes, .if not ever. At the S.P.A.A. (S-tudents for Political Awareness . and Ac.tivism) rneeting this past Monday, I showed slides and spo~e about my recent trip to Honduras a11d Nicaragua with t:llc Witn~ss For Peace IJr o gram-- a nation a 1 Grganizatioll opposed to US IJOii.cy towards Central America. Although Honduras 'Was very interesting, the discussion tllmed mostly to the Nicaraguan elections, the more crucial regional issue at Jlresent. In July 1979, theSandinistas O\lerthrew a forty year old, US- backed repressive dictatorship under the Somoza family. Since then they have taken steps to improve living conditions for the poor, the majority of Nicaraguans. A literacy campaign has d:rastically lowered,tlle illitemcy rate, and a medicine campaign has improved health conditions. Different land reforms and an attempt at a mixed economy have provided more food for more people. However, Nicaraguan society is far from perfect. According. to David Dye of the Nicaraguan Institute of Economic Studies, policy mistakes have continuously plagued the new government although in the most recent years they have improved. The US trade embargo with Nicaragua, the Contra w.ar, and tile hurricane in 1988 have devastated the Many Rivers To C.ross Th·e Road to Lasting Peace in South Africa Courtesy of SOUTH AFRICAN CONSULATE GENERAL For more than four decades :South Africa's predominantly Afrikaner government has vainly tried to make the concept of a separate but equal society become a practical reality; and in attempting what turned out to be an impossible undertaking it always had to take into account its traditionally over-riding responsibility to protect the Afrikaner culture and way of I if e. But the era of F.W. DeK!erk has seen a new maturity and realism in government thinking that appears determined to achieve and even supercede the goals of those who,. 80 years ago, sought to build a nation from the wreckage of the Anglo Boer War. The founding fathers of twentieth century South Africa were concerned only with uniting Boer ami Brit as a common subjects of Great Britain and their failed enterprise led tO the pro- Afrikaner, pro-apartheid National Party government of 1948. The National Party is still in power today but the party's ideology has slowly changed over the years from support exclusivity and racial- separateness to one of reconciliation and nation- building. The new administration of President F. W. DeKlerk is patiently aware that those who have a say .m fashioning the South Africa of the twenty-first century must seek to involve and unite all South Africa's people in the passion of nation· building and the pride of nationhood. Without abandoning the Afrikaner and the white community he ttas, in the manner of a true statesaman, made himself and his administration responsible in Remember to reapply for financial aid {scholarship • \o~~:n , work study) BY APRil 15TH Applications av.aikble at tbe Union College Fin;ao.ci~l Aid Offir.e 2o.d F1aor, Becker Hall • 371H1123 Nicaraguan economy with sky high inflation and a huge military budget. The inflation rate peaked at 36,000% in 1988 and last year was down to 15,000%. The military has been allocated 50% of :the na~ional budget in recent years to which the government has been forced to print new money to pay the militia. The general sentiment among the Nicaraguan people is mixed. Most have enjoyed the benefits of the reforms of the revolutionary government but are tired of the constant state of fear and death of the war and the problems with the economy. However, most still seem to have faith in the Sandinista party. According to The Christian Science Monitor, a recent independent poll shows the Sandinista party is leading the campaign over the rival, United States, supported,' coalition party UNO equal measure for the future well-being of all South Mrica's people. For an indelible indication of the sincerity of President DeKlerk's administration one need look no further than the public statements of two government ministers, Mr. R.F. \Pik\ Botha and Dr. Gerrit Viljoen. Recently they respectively indicated that the new constitution could produce a black president and that such a development would not be unacceptable to the present government; and that a consequence of a future new constitution might be that the ruling National Party would not be solely in control. It is no wonder then that a staunch foe of the South African govemment, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, has been moved to state publicly: \Rarely has a man been able to do as much as President DeKlerk has done towards .change.\ Most political leaders in Sou.th Africa, including President DeKlerk 1 agree that the country's short-term collective national goal should be to search for a new representative constitution for South Africa. There are also those who insist that the removal of \apartheid\ is the most important priority. However, the removal of (made u.p of 11 different policital parties) by 15% of the respondents, with 15% either undecided or supporting one of the other nine parties in the campaign. At stake in Nicaragua in these..,e]ections are positions for president and vice president,. representatives to the National Assembly. 144 municipal councils, and two regional councils ou the remote Atlantic coast. Approximately half of the Nicaraguan population or 1.7 million Nicaraguans out of a total population of 3.8 million ha:ve registered to vote .. The Sandinistas won 60% of the vote in the 1984 election, A new constitution was adopted in 19-87 .. The government is responding to the United States' call for \free and fair elections.\ Several international O'bservers, including the United Nations, the Organization of Ametican States, and former president \apartheid\ is only half of the solution to South Africa's problems. The other half of the solution will depend ob what kind of socio.·political system is implemented in the place of \apartheid\. Which brings us back to the question of a new constitution for South Mrica. A constitution is essentially a vehicle for the satisfaction of the needs of a nation's people. If it is a good and viable constitution, it will supply the basic req.uirements of any society; employment, housing, food, education, security, The removal of apartheid is only half of the solution to South Africa's problems. The other half of tbe solution will depend on what kind of socio~political system is implemented in place of apartheid.\ justice and good order; It must also enable the people to freely and fairly choose representative leaders who will respect and uphold the constitution and govern in terms of it. In theory only die-hard racists and compulsive rabble-rousers might object to such a constitution but in practice it is going to take more than good intentions and lofty ideals Jimmy Carter and his election observation team have notep that election processes. so far, have been fair, The heated campaign · has been plagued with violence and verbal abuse; Witness for Peace has documented 23 deaths to Sandinista activists since October. If the Sandinistas do, in fact, win the elections and if the official international observers do give· them high marks, then the Nicaraguans will be able to use that fact as a. powerful bargaining chip in their ·q.uest for self-determination in the on-goif!g Central American peace process; a peace process which is challenging the legitimacy of US foreign policy in the region. Next week, SPAA will discuss \Mandela Is Free, So Wbat?\ Please come and join us at 7:30 p.m. in Room 203 in the College Center. to formulate and implement a constitution that is truly universally acceptable within South Africa. Essentially, there must be mutual n:ustbetwen those who have a say in drafting a new South African constitution, and ontv communication · and contact can create conditions that are conducive to the creation of a mood of trust arnon.g the various parties concerned, That is why it is imperative that parties to the constitutional negotiations should now respond positively to President DeKlerk's invitation and take their places at the negotiation t:able in a spirit of peace and reconciliaton. It has been said that President DeKlerk successfully crossed the Rubicon when he recently announced the unbanning, amongst others, of the African National Congress, Pan Africanist Congress and S0uth African Communist . •1, as well as a host of other reform measures. Nevertheless, there are still many rivers to cross and all the parties to the negotiations will have to cross them sooner or later if South Africa is ever to achieve the peace, stability and prosperity it needs and deserves. Come See Shades of Grey _Sunday Monday Tuesday Thursday 25th 26th 27th 1st 8 p.m. Hickok 8 p.m. Fox. 8 p.m~ Davidson .g p.m. SS016 \ I l ·I .I -- j 1 ;y prol Cia 197 Col Ge1 Cm Wa Th1 Col Uni the Del ' gar of pro ant nat arg on: the rel en~ l Sc hi5 tit AI 3:1 M B1 et le1 ell g; e1 st C( Cl e• c: E L p l 1 p

Page 2 CONCOilDIENSIS, February 22, 1990 @nnrorbirnsis NEWS ANALYSIS Who Will Win the Nicaraguan Elections? B)· CARL B. DICKSON This Sunday, February 25, will be a crucial day for the future of Nicaragua, Ccr1tral America, ~md the United States' policy towards that region. NicaraguaNs head to the polls for the second time since the Sandinistas took power in 1979 in the most heavily scrutinized elections in recent. time~, it\ noll'\·cr. At the S.P.A.A. (Students for Political Awareness ami Activism) meeting this past Monday. I showl'd slides ami spoke abuut my recent tri_p to Honliuras ~md ~i~·.1ragua -...vith t h (' \\' i 1 Th' s s r l) r PC' :.1 c e program·· a natinnal organitation opposed to LS 1 poli-:y towards Central Amcrii.'a. /\!though Honduras was very interesting. the discussion turned mostly tu the N icaraguzm elections. the more crucial regional issue at present. In July 1979, the Sandinistas overthrew a forty year old, US- backed repressive dictatorship under the Somoza family. Since then they have taken steps to improve living conditions for the poor, the majority of Nicaraguans. A literacy campaign has drastically loweFed the illiteracy rate, and a medicine campaign has improved health conditions. Different land reforms and an attempt at a mixed economy have provided more food for more people. However, Nicaraguan society is far from perfect. According to David Dye of the Nicaraguan Institute of Economic Studies, policy mistakes have continuously plagued the new government although in the most recent years they have improved. The US trade embargo with Nicaragua, the Contra war, and the hurricane in 1 988 have devastated the Many Rivers To Cross The Road to LasUng Peace in South Africa Courtesy of SOl'TH AFRICA~ CONSULATE GENERAL For more than four dcradcs South Africa's predominontly Afrikaner ,I!Overnmcnt h3s \'ainly tn~d to make the concept of a separate but cq ual o.,ncicty hccom~ a pr<.Jc ttcal reality: and in Jttcrnpting \Vhat turned out to he an impossible undcrtak ing it always had to take into account its tradt tion ally ovcr-ri{fing responsihility to protect the Afrikaner culture and woy of life. But the era of F.W. DeKlerk has seen a new maturity- and rcali sm in government thinking that app-ears determined to achieve and even supercede the goals of those who, 80 years ago, sought to build a nation from the wreckage of the Anglo Boer War. The founding fathers of twentieth century South Africa were concerned only with uniting Boer and Brit as a common subjects of Great Britain and their failed enterprise led to the pro- Afrikaner, pro-apartheid National Party government of 1948. The National Party is still in power today but the party's ideology has slowly changed over the years from support exclusivity and racial- separateness to one of reconciliation and nation- building. The new administration of President F. W. DcKlerk is patiently aware that those who have a say m fashioning the South Africa of the twenty-first century must seek to involve and unite all South Africa's people in the passion of nation-building and the pride of nationhood. Without abandoning the Afrikaner and the white community he has, in the manner of a true statesaman, made himself and his administration responsible in Reme:nbe-~ to reapply for financial aid 9c,CJJarsh1p• loan .. work study; R;Y APRIL 15TH App; l<'\.:tt.on~ avatlanle Jt the t.:nv-J-n (Jlh·gt.' Flo!loc;al A.Jd Office 2c~ l1c.cr. 8£·c.er Hall • J~Q-6123 Nicaraguan economy with sky high inflation and a huge military budget. The iFtflation rate peaked at 36,000% in 1988 and last year was down to 15,000%. The military ·has been allocated 50% of the national budget in recent years to which the government has been forced to print new money to pay the militia. The general sentiment among the Nicaraguan people is mixed. Most have enjoyed the benefits of the reforms of the revolutionary government but arc tired of the constant state of fear and death of the war and the problems with the economy. However, most still seem to have faith in the Sandinista party. According to The Christian Science Monitor, a recent independent poll shows the Sandinista party is leading the campaign over the rival, United States, supported,'coalition party UNO equal measure for the future well-being of all South Africa's people. For an indelible indication of the sincerity of President DeKlerk's administration one need look no further than the public statements of two government ministers, Mr. R.F. \Pik\ Botha and Dr. Gerrit V iljoen. Recently they respectively indicated that the new constitution could produce a black president and that such a development would not be unacceptable to the present government; and that a consequence of a future new constitution might be that the ruling National Party would not be solely in control. It is no wonder then that a staunch foe of the South African government, the Rev. Jesse Jackson, has been moved to state publicly: \Rarely has a man been able to do as much as President DeKlerk has done towards change.\ Most political leaders in South Africa, including President DeKlerk, agree that the country's short-term collective national goal should be to search for a new representative constitution for South Africa. There are also those who insist that the removal .of \apartheid\ is the most important priority. However, the removal of (made up of 11 different policital parties) by 15% of the respondents, with 15% either undecided or supporting one of the other nine parties in the campaign. At stake in Nicaragua in these elections are positions for pFesident and vice president, representatives to the National Assembly, 144 municipal councils, and two regional councils on tile remote Atlantic coast. Approximately half of the Nicaraguan population or 1.7 million Nicaraguans out of a total poplllation of 3.8 million have registered to vote. The Sandinistas won 60% of the vote in the 1984 election. A new constitution was adopted in 1987. The government is responding to the United States' call for \free and fair elcc tions.\ Several international observers, illclud·ing the United Nations, the Organization of American States, and former president \apartheid\ is only half of the solution to South Africa's problems. The. other half of the solution will depend on what kind of socio-political system is implemeAted in the place of \apartheid\. Which brings us back to the question of a new constitution for South Africa. A constitution is essentially a vehicle for the satisfaction of the needs of a nation's people. If it is a good and viable constitution, it will supply the basic requirements of any society; employment, housing, food, education, security, The removal of apartheid is only half of the solution to South Africa's problems. The other half of the solution will depend on what kind of socio-p()litical system is implemt!nted in place of apartheid.\ jus.tice and good order. It must also enable the people to freely and fairly choose representative leaders who will respect and uphold the constitution and govern in terms of it. In theory only die-hard racists and compulsive rabble-rousers might object to such a constitution but in practice it is going to take more than good intentions and lofty ideals Jimmy Carter and his election o~servation team have noted that election processes, so far, have been fair. The heated campaign has been plagued with violence and verbal abuse; WitRess for Peace has documented 23 deaths to SaAdin.ista activists since October. If the Sandinistas do, in fact, win the elections and if the official international observers do give them high marks, then the Nicaraguans wiH be able to use that fact as a powerful bargaining chip in their quest for self-determination in the on-going Central American peace process; a peace process which is challenging the legitimacy of US foreign policy in the region. Next week. SPAA will discuss \Mandel a Is Free, So What?\ Please come and join us at 7:30 p.m. in Room 203 in the College Center. to formulate and implement a constitution that is truly universally acceptable within South Africa. Essentially, there must be mutual trllst betwen those who have a say in drafting a new South African constitution, and only communication and contact can create conditions that are conducive to the creation of a mood of trust among the various parties concerned. That is why it i:; imperative that parties to the constitutional negotiations should now respond positively to President DeKlerk's invitation and take their places at the negotiation table in a spirit of peace and reconciliaton. It has been said that President DeKierk successfully crossed the Rubicon when he recently announced the unbanning, amongst others, of the African National Congress, Pan Africanist Congress and S')uth African Communist .y, as well as a host of other reform measures. Nevertheless, there are still many rivers to cross and all the parties to the negotiations will have to cross them sooner or later if South Africa is ever to achieve the peace, stability and prosperity it needs and deserves. Come See Shades of Grey Sunday 25th 8 p.m. Hickok Monday 26th 8 p.m. Fox Tuesday 27th 8 p.m~ Davidson Thursday 1st 8 p.m. SS016 1 1 ~ pro Cia 191 Col Ge1 Co1 Wa Th1 Col Un the De] ' gar of pre an< na1 arg on the: rel en· Sc hi~ tit AI 3:• M B1 et le er g eJ S1 cc c ~ c E L p l 1

' ... . f cf CONCQRI)l.\&NSIS February 22,. 1990 Page 3 ' ·Union Alumnus To Speak 'Princeton Profess.or To . . Receive Honorary Degree Ci111rtesy of Public :Relations A Princeton University civil engineering professor who has promoted engineering as artistry will be honored on Thursday, February 22, at the He is the author of three • books: Thin Shell Concrete Structures '(1982). a graduate textboo]c on large-scale, thin Founders Day convocation, a At 11:30 a.m. in celebration of the founding of Memorial 'Chapel, David the College in 1795. ·p, Billington, a William Vitek, an assistant At 11 :30 a.m. in. Memorial professor of Civil profess<>r of -philosophy at . Chapel, David P. ·J3iUington engineering at Pdn:.,;et<ln Clar:kS()n University and a. willreceiveanhonorarydegree University, will receive 1979 ~raduate of Union .· of doctor ofhumane letters for an honorary degree of College., will speak on\From ' writing and teaching that ,; doctor of humane letters. Gellesi:s to Garbage: The encourages the integration of 1 ' ------------ ... Conce;ptual Roots ·of Our Solid · art· and engineering. He will :: shell structures, indu.ding roofs Waste Crisis\ at 8 p.tn. on deliver the Founders Day · and cooling towers; Robert Th11rs,day, March 1, in the address and Minerva lecture on Maillart's Bridges: The Art of Coll~ge Center auditorium at \The.Historical Connections of , . Engineering, an historical study . Unl()ll College, sponsored by Engineering to Art.\ _ .that won the 1979 Dexer Prize the C0Uege's Philosophy of the Society for the History of Technology; and The Tower and the Bridge· ( 1983), which defines a new tradition of structural engineering as an art form. In much of his recent teaching and research, he has ex.plored the connections \between engineering and the liberal arts and has developed curriculum materials aimed at teaching engineering to liberal arts students. Billington has received the History and Heritage Award of the American Society of Civil Engineers. Department . Vitek will trace the current gruba~e :Problem to a number of cultural beliefs about progress. economic prosperity, · and 'tile place of people in the natur3l ()rder of things. He argue~ 1h:at the crisis will abate . only when people overturn these b-eliefs and redefine their . · relationship to the Earth in emrir()nmental terms_ Term Pap·er Business Outlawed He also will speak on the Scot•i~h philosopher and historian David Hume in a talk titlecl \Promise as Practice: Courtesy of Intercollegiate Press Bulletin Los Angeles, Calif. - (l.P.) - . A business which has been · supplying term papers and other work for students for a fee was recently shutdown. Such services are prohibitei under Section 66400 of tbe Education Code of the State of California which prohibits tbe sale of term papers, thesis or dissertations. \This action is a warning to other similar businesses that we will take whatever legal means are available to us to shut them down,';_ ... said Lee Kerschner, vice chancellor for academic affairs.· \Supplying term papers and dissertations for a fee subverts academic process and cheats the student out of the learning experience · gained by doing the work them!?elves.\ Standard! policy at all CSU campuses is to give a failing grade to students who are caught using purchased material in classes. The action was brought to the Court by the Attorney General's office with the assistance of CSU's Office of General Counsel. · An<JtJler Look at Hume\ for the 3:4-5 P'hilosphy Colloquium on Marclt 2 in the Humanities BtLilding Room 213. A Schenectady native and etll.lcs specialist, Vitek has · lecttJrecl around the state on Albany Rally Focused Police Abuse envil()nmemal themes and has gi Yen testimony on en:\il'Dnmental ed11cation to the state Se.nate and Assembly C()llLJnittees on environmental con;Servation. He is an eav iro nm ental education cn11!mltant to the Envi1onmental Phtnning Lol).by. . Vitek received a doctorate in philosophy from City U11iversity of New York in 19&-9. !he talks are free to the pubtlie. A \Rally Against Police Abuse\ was held on Monday, February 19, 1990 at Albany City Hall, Washington and Eagle Streets, at 1:00 p.m. The protest. called by the Capital District Coalition Again!;! Apartheid and Racism, aired recent complaints of use ()f .· excessive force, intimidation and racial slurs by members of the Alb-any Police Department. Citing recent news stories of : harassment in the Times Uni()n · and Metroland, and community Reported Security Incidents Week of 2-11 to 2-17 i} li'TE:. LOCATION 2- l 1 Stgma ?hi 2-1 I South Terrace 2-11 Maxcy House 2-1 1 Sigma Chi 2-1 I Potter !louse 2-1 I Arts Butldtng 2-12 Davidson 2-1 2 Butterfield 2-i2 College Center 2-13 Fox House l~l3 Physical Plant 2-13 Phystcal Plant 2-13 College Center 2 -13 Davidson Lot Lot INCIDENT Suspicious persons attempted entry. GOA. SPD notified. D1sorderly conduct - studen~. Vandalism to ce}lar door. Vandalism - window in southeast entrance. Also couch on porch. Vandalis~ to ~indcw. Vandalism to window. Student m1sconduct. Vandalism to window. Suspicious person, GOA. Life Safety violation, burning paper in room. Vand·ali·sm to vehicle. Vandalism to vehicle. Unauthorized duplicate of room key found. reports ef an officer beating several people with a baseball bat, Coalition co-chair Merton Simpson describes the publicized cases as \just the tip of the iceberg of abuse and use of undue physical force by Albany police, particuarly against Mrican Americans.\ The rallY:, according to Mr. Simpson, spearheaded a The protest aired recent complaints of use of excessive f-orce, intimidation and racial slurs by members of the Albany Police Department. ca.mpaign to encourage Go·ne, But Not Forgotten. The pass-enger pigeon. The heath hen, The I...abrador duck. The C:lro!ina parakeet. the list of extinct animals grows.. But it d!)esn:t ha,•e to. The National Wildlife Federation is working to save endangered species. join us wh~le there's stiU tiim;, The National Wildlife Federation. 1'4.12 16thStre~t. N\V,Washington DC 20036·226(i Working for tlie Nature of Tomorrow,. NATIONAL WILDLifE FEDERATIO~ on members of the community to I . report incidents of police abuse; to press the Police Department and the Mayor to put a halt to abusive practices and take disciplinary action against the officers involved; and to establish an independent civilian review board for cases of alleged police wrongdoing. 2 \3.3 Nortl1 Entry Gate Life Safety euipment.van:- da'iize~L Traf;Eic cones stolen. Economics Club Presents 2 -]4 Chi Fsi 2 - J.4 South College 2 -14 College Center 2-15 South College 2-15 Turf 2-15 Fait House Vandalism to horth window. Vandalism to r·oom door. • Da::-age to ele\·atm:-j:.C·ss. vanr.al:_is:'l Vandalism to entrance w.indeiv. Student vehicle towed. Unauthorized duplicate of room key. ERIC MARKELL (Union '73) i' 2-15 Raymond Vandalism to window. Globalization of the U.S. 2-16 Fox House 2-1'6 Turf area 2-17 Davidson 2-17 Potter Vandalism to interior door. suspicious male, .advise¢! off campus. Vandalism to lounge window. Vandalism to window. Economy: Lessons from the 1980's Monday, Feb. 26th SS104, 3:45-5 p.m. Refreshments preceed presentation

CONC()RDIENSlS, February 22, 1990 Page 3 Union Alumnus To Speak Princeton Professor To Receive Honorary Degree Gone, But Not Forgotten. Courtesy of Public Relations Willi!tm Vitek, an a.ssistant profes~or of philosovhy at Clarks011 University and a A Princeton University civil engineering professor who has promoted engineering as artistry will be honored on Thursday, February 22, at the Founders Day convocation, a celebration of the f(!)unding of the College in 1795. At 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel, David P. Billington will receive an honorary degree of doctor of htmilane letters for writing and teaching that . encourages the integration of art and engineering. He will deliver the Founders Day addFess and Minerva lecture on \The Historical Connections of Engineering to Alit.\ He is the author of three books: Thin Shell Concrete StTuctures (1982), a graduate te:xtbook on large-scale, thin At 11:30 a.m. in Memorial Chapel, David P. Billington~ a professor of civil ell'gineering at Princeton University, will receive an honorary degree of d~ctor of humane letters. shell structures, including roofs and coolil'lg towers; Robert Mai/olart's Bridges: The Art of E11gineering, an historical study that won the 1979 Dexer Prize of the Society for the History of Technology; and The Tower and the Bridge (1983), which defines a new tradition of structural engineering as an art f()ftl1, In much of his recel)t teaching and rese!Uich, he has e;,(p1ored the connections , between engineering and the liberal arts and has developed curricull:1m materials aimed at teaching engineering to liberal arts students. Billington has received tile . History and Heritage Award of the American Society of Civil Engineers. The p;~ssenger pigeo~ The heath hen. \!be labrador d1:1ck. The C:lroliro parakeet. The list of extinct animals grows. But it doesn't have to. The National Wildlife Federation is working to s:r•e endangered spedes. Join us while there's still time. The National Wildlife Federation. 1412 16th Street, N\\(/ Washington. DC 20036·2266. 1 97f) graduate of Union Colleg:c .. wiH speak o11\Frmn Genesis to Garbage: Tl<le ConccJJtual Roots of Our Solid Waste Crisis\ at 8 p.tn. on Thursday, March 1, in the CoUe~e Center audit()rium at Union College, spons<Jred by the College's PhHosophy De:partrr1ent. Vitek will trace the C!lrrent garb~g~ problem to a number of <:ul·1ural beliefs about pro!Pess, economic pMJsperity, · and tl-.e plate of people in the nattual. order of thi11gs. He argll~S that the crisis will abate only when people overturn these 'beliefs and redefine their relationship to the Earth in environmental terms. Term Paper Bu.siness Outlawed Working for the Nature of Tomorrow~ NATIONAL WILDLIFE FEDERATlO:--. He also will speak on the See> tlish philosopllier and historia.n David Hume in a talk · titled k'Prom ise as Practice: Courtesy of Intercollegiate Press B ulleti11 Los Angeles, Calif. - (I.P.) - A business which has been supplying term paiJers and other work for stadents for a fee was recently shutdown. Such services are prohibited . under Section 66400 of the Education Code of 1he State of California which prohibits the sale of term papers, thesis or dissertations. \This action is a warning to other similar businesses that we will take whatever legal means are available to us to shut them down,\ said Lee Kerschner, vice chancellor for academic affairs. \Supplying term papers and dissertations for a fee subverts academic process and cheats the student 1 out of the learning experience !gained by doing the work :themselves.\ Standard policy at all CSU campuses is to give a failing grade to students who are caught using purchased material in classes. The action was brought to the Court by the Attorney General's offhce with the assistaNce of CSU's Office of General Counsel. Another Look at Hurne\ for the 3:45 Fhilosphy Coll()quium on March 2 in the Htunanities Builclirlg Room 213. A.. Schenectady natti ve and ethic:; specialist, V ttek has lectll!e:.d around the state on envinmmental themes and has Albany Rally Focused Police Abuse on g ivea testimony on ' A \RaHy Against Police Abuse\ was held <Jn Monday, February 19, 1990 at Albany City Hall, Wasltington and Eagle Streets, at l:CO p.m. The protest, called by the Capital District Coalition Against Apartheid and Racism, aired recent complaints of use of excessive force, intimidation and racial slurs by members of the Albany Police Department. enviro11mental education to the state Senate and Assembly C()llllll ittees on environmental co11servation. He is an cn-vir()nmental etducation consultant to the En v inn mental IPlanning L(}bby. '\litek received a doctorate in pllihsophy from City University of New York in 1989. l'he talks are free to the pll biic. Citing recent news stories of harassment in the 'Times Union and Metro land, an<! community Repor1ed Security Incidents Week of 2-11 to 2·17 D!\'rE LOCATION 2·11 SouthTe::-:ace .~- ll ~4UXC':\ H·_)\_lSl· z-:1 ~~lQ!\·dC:1:. 2-:] 1\r1 ~ !iu: :rl1 nq ;:2- !~' Dd\\Jd~\.'Il 2-1..2 F,u•,te!\tleld 2- ~~ College Ce~ter JNCIDF.NT Susr:~:o~s person~ atternpted entry. GC~. S?D nntifled. r: tscrder 1 y conduct. - st uder-,: .. \'a~lridllSr':\'. t.o Ct.' 1 lar doo:-~ Vanrial:s~- ~:ndcw 1n soutr1eas': e:ot !·a ne-e. 1\l ,:o Vanoalls~ to ~1ndow. Student re:sconduct, v d n d a 1 1 s :r t c \-' i n d< ~~,· • Susp:c:ous person, GOA. 2-1J Fox H•usc ~1fe Safety ~:olatton, burntng paper 1n room. ~-1J Phystcal Plant l.ot Vandal1s~ to ¥eh1cle. 2-13 Pllysh'ill Plant Ll't Vandaltsrr. to veh:cle. 2-13 CollegP CEnter Unauthorlzed dupl3cate of room key found. ~-1 3 Davtdson Life Safety euipment.van- dalized. 2-13 North Entry Gate Traffic cones stolen. 2-14 Chi Ps1 Vandalism to north window. 2-14 South Col lege .vandaltsm to room door. 2-1• Colleoe Center Dcrnc:e to ele·:ator-!£·ss. vanr.alis:--. 2-15 South CoLlege 2-15 Turf 1 2 -15 Fox House 2 -1:; Raymond 2-16 Fox House l-16 Turf area 2 · 17 David Ron 2· 17 Potter Vandalism to entrance window. Student vehicle to~ed. Unauthorized dupLicate of room key. Vandalism to w1ndo~. Vandalism to interior door. Suspicious male, advised off campus. Vandallsm to lounge w1ndow. Vandalism to window. reports of an officer beating several people with a basebail bat, Coalition co-chair Merton Simpson describes the publicized cases as \just the tip of the iceberg of abuse and use of undue physical force by Albany police, particuarly against Afri.can Americans.\ The rally, according to Mr. Simpson, spearheaded a The protest aired recen:t complaints of use of excessive fore~, intimidation and racial slurs by members of tlu Albany Police Department. campaign to encourage members of the community to . report incidents of police I abuse; to press the Police Department and the Mayor to put a halt to abusive practices and take disciplinary action against the officers involved; and to establish an independent civilian review board for cases of alleged police wrongdoing. Applications are now being taken for membership on the Board of the Union College Investment Club, which manages a portfolio valued in excess of $100,000. Any student. who has taken or is taking Economics 34 (Financial Analysis) or Economics 36 (Financial Markets) may apply for membership on the Board, which has several vacancies. If you are interested in applying for membership on the Board,, please see Mrs. Geraci in the Economics Department office (Social Science 212) for a description of the Investment Club and an application for membership on the Board. If you have further questions concerning the Club. please contact Prof. Lewis (x6078) ; Membership applications will be due Friday, March li ?. .• 990. '~ . ' .... ·· .•.• ·~~~~~---- , ......... .,.,. -·\·\·· ··--- ---- ,. -·-· ...... \ ·-- .. Economics Club Presents ERIC MARKELL (Union '73) Globalization of the U .. S. Economy: Lessons from the 1980's Monday, Feb. 26th SS104, 3:45-5 p.m. Refreshments preceed presentation ~·~·a __ j

William Sloane Coffin Coming to Unio:n April 8th HOURS: ~1on.-fri. :2-4:30 -- S nn.- Thurs. -:-' -10:00 l\ill ITAKER HOUSE - ~nd floor New and lmprov~~d Cabaret :Deb.ut of New A·g~e _ Style Music on Guitar and. ,Plano also 'featuring Guest appe~arance· of the Mountebanks with a preview of the Three- Penny Opera -TONIGHT-- Two shows at 8:00p.m. and 10:00 p.m. in the College Center rm. 302 Refreshments will be served Bible Study Where? CC Am. 205 When? Monday 7:30-8:30 pm ALL ARE WELCOME vvill continue each Mon. for ihe semester Announcing an otter designed to save money 1br people who are, well, a bit long-winded when it comes to, you know, talking on , the phone, and who, quite understandablY, don't want to have to wait till after 11 pm to get a deal on long distance prices. If you spend a lot of time on the phone, the AT&TRetJchOut'\' America Plan could save you a lot on y.our long distance hill. And you don't have to stay up late to do it. Starting at 5 pm, the AT&T Read:J Out® ~menca Plan takes an additional 25% off our already reduced evening prices. · To find out more, call us at 1 800 REACH OUT, ext~ 4093. And don't worry, we'll keep it hrief. .Discoum applles to out·of.state calls direct·dialed 5-10 pili, sunday- friday. Thisserviarmay not be zyailable·ln.all residence halls. •. ; ,, ·, . -.:. '· . ·.~ ... ~ .... , ·' ' (. ATaT . The ri.g,ht choice. ~! 1 ·, ... - \\· ,, ' - .. ~. - - ' - -

FEATURES Spring Break Anyone? By DESMOND W ,!\RD In three and a half weeks the beaches of Florida,. Jamaica, Nassau, and Mexico will he covered with college students, If you haven't planned a trip yet, there's little hope that you will get a seat on a plane ot a room in a Hotel for a reasonable price. Plus, the prices are so inflated around this time of year you are probably going to spend more money than you have, and mom and dad are going to have to bail you out. But, the drinks, the tan bodies, and wild music suffocate aFI'Y thoughts of apprehension. Yoll are going to go no matter what! Daytona Beacll, Florida seems to be the place a lot of Union Students are going this year. For .$175-$200 air fare and an average hotel rate of $65 per night you can get a good week in the sun for $400-$500; There is still plenty of room around for those of you who have just decided that's the place for y()u. The economy sta:ndard, which includes about ten of your frien<ls, a recreational vehicle (tile good old R. V .)~ and about $300 can get you a nice tan at the cost of a 19 hour cat ride. :But if you don't want to see people from Union there are plenty of other options. Jamaica is a bit more expensive, but wen worth the cost. You will find yourself sipping your \Hutticarte\ in the eve!' glowing Jamaican sun as the native reggae music resaands through all the hotel alcCJves and beaches. The nigb:t life goes on till the next morning where you have the opticm of going into the Jamaican hills for a horse ride or -down to the beach in Mo;ntego Bay for a little para- sailing. Some restaurants and barsare advantageously located at the top of thirty foot cliffs. There yQiu can witness or try cliff diving~ So. an average package will run anywhere frQm $600-$800 dollars, which usmally doesn't include meals. Liberty travel and otlle-r ser\V:ices have offered similar prices and corning down since they have experienced several caiicellations. The best weather you can get is in Nassau,. the Bahamas. It onLy rains 26 days out of the year and the sun heats the ocean water up to a comfortable 75° F. Casin()s line the beaches, while exotic Heating Up The Half-Time By ELLEN MA.TLOFF Have you been to a men's basketball game this term? If you have, then you've see11 what's heating up the half-tim<l .. its the new Union College Dance team! Tile team was founded this fall by junior Ellen Matloff, who also serves as team captain and choreographer. The Dance Team also boasts eight othet dancers - freshmen Cindy, Katamitis, Joy Lieberthal, and Mary Beth Moskal, sophomores Belinda Basaca and Christine O'Connor, juniors Kamela Allen, Christille Lennon, Eileen Schneider, and manager Caryn Belanger. Tile team was created with several goals in mind. One was to encourage more students to attend home basketball games and to rev up the; crowd at tile half-time. Anotlter was t() create a competitive, athletic, and challenging dance activity for its members. The team be.gan learning their first ronfule in October to a mix of sev.eral songs including bits by Paula. A,bduJ and Tone Loc. After performing that routin:e three times they began their current routine to a mix of ,; H-ust a Move\ and \Supersonic\. The team was fortunate enoagh to receive fuJJ<ling from the Student Fomm to purchase their first yeru uniforms and they hope to rec:eive additional funding for the- '90-'91 season. The Dance Te;;trn hopes to perform at football half-times this fall and ~o qualify for some dance competitions. So, if you still haven't seen tile hottest half- ti!l1e show around don't miss the last home basketball game on February- 27 at 8:00 p.m. ( Anyone_interested injoinimg the dance team for next falL's season is encouraged to conaact Ellen Matl()ff for mere information.) SUMMER JOBS at CAMP SUSSEX Await You! Cabin and Speciality C<lunselors (male and female) needed at this 8 week, overnight, co- ed camp in the beautiful mountains of · Northern New Jersey. Also waterfront, pioneering, and nursing jobs available. Call . Gary at (718) 261-8700 or (609) 753-9265 fish :frolic in the calm swf. The night life is limited to three or four nightclubs but each one has live bands until twelve and the clubs don't close until sunrise. The place is packed with college students. Packages run from $450 to an expensive $9 50. The more expensive hotels also have casinos and have their own beach. Mexico sounds great but is expensive in the resort areas such as Cancun. The economy Cancun rate is $459. The more expensive packages can provide you with air fare, hotel room and even three meals a day. Ca11cun will be full of college students as well and is the best Mexican trip, economically speaking. Other Mexican stops sucll as Ixtapa, Puerto V allart.a and Acapulco are full of \Love Boat\ tourists and small kids '.'lb.o throw sand. Liberty Travel has a vast array .of pamphlets and available packages and is located in Mohawk Mall Most packages they offer include air fare and hotel accommodations. Some, though, include free meals, drinks and sight seeing tours. Stockade Travel on Erie Boulevard has cheap and inexpensive trips as well. The majority of students who went there are picking up information on ski packages out West. They say spring skiing is more popular this year than trips to the islands. If you want to go anywhere, and go at a relatively cheap · price, you should consider rooms of four people which are the lowest priced rooms in any package. Vii got Sjoman: 491 The Director and His Film Visit Union After arriving directly from Sweden, Vilgot Sjoman. will . speak to a Union College • audience on Thursday~ February 22. His film, 491,. will be shown at 7:00 prm. in the Social Sciences auditorium (SS 016). Following the film, at approximately 9:00 p.m., Sjoman will discuss 4!>1 and offer commentary on Swedish cinema and on the problem of . censorshjp and the arts• The title 491 all-udes to the · injunction to forgive the sinner \seventy times seven\; the sin portrayed in the film, a bestial sex.11al exploitation, is the unforgivable four hundred , ninety fust offense. 491 stirred a debate both in Sweden and in the rest of the world over how far graphic art could legitimately go in presenting sex11ally reprehensible acts, regardless of whether the artist condemned what he depicted. Sjoman attained greater notoriety, however, with his film I Am C q rious, Yellow. The film was once barred by US Customs, and a major legal battle ensued after 491 is \an 11gly homily about uncorrlgible juvenile offenders and · tlte blundering effluts of scciety to rehabilitate them.\ attempts to .prevent its e:xhibition in New York City. The political irreverence and criticism expressed through the film's erotic scenes probably had as much to do with the effort to impost censorship as· the sexual content itself. Before becoming a director, Sjoman established himself as a promising young novelist. He has also written a unique chronicle of the evolution of an idea into a completed film: with the cooperation of his friend Ingmar Bergman, Sjoman recorded the complex turns in the process of creating Bergman's Winter Light (or, to use the more correct translation of the Swedish title, Tile Communicants). Mter his Union appearance, Sjoman will speak at Harvard, Columbia, and a Cleveland cinematheque. His American tour has been facilitated by the Swedish Information Service. The Minerva Committee and the English department are providing fmancial support for the showing of 491 as well as its director's visit. The College Center Dramatic Reading Series Presents lngmar~ Berma.n's Jack Among the Actors Translated and drrected by Frank Q,ado Monday, February 26 at 7:30p.m. in the College Center. Auditorium

Page 6 CONC()JWJENSJS, FebLuary .22~ 199(}' INTERNAT'IONAL F·EATURES International Student of the Week Cristina Calvi of Torino, Italy (on right) and her sister Laura. [] . . , JNSTITUTE FOR STUDY ABROAD llUTLER UNIVERSITY STVDY IN GREAT. BRITAIN OR AUSTRALIA Ful~l' integrated study at British and A,ustralian universities FALL OR SPRING SEMESTER • FULL YEAR INSTEP • SUMMER PROGRAM • INTERNSHIPS StudY Abroad Information Session Presented hy: :like Roberts Date: february 27, 1990 _ 10:30A..M Location: Humanities Faculty Lounge For turtller mformatton plea'<: conta(t ln>tllute for ~tudy .\hroad. Butl-er I tll'tT'Il' i(>OO ~un,et A',. ·lndtanapoli' I\\ i(>111H Td 1 >1-·21-1.~-9 J>,(> --------.-------· - :'\Jilll'-----------~------ t Jn-<..unru' .~ddn·\-------------­ Ct£\ '-tate Ztf'--------------~- .[ .1111 lllll'n''tt'<.l 111 ~nur prngram in---------~- SWEDISH MOVIE Thursday Night, 7 PM S016 FREE!! Speaker to follow \It's a classic!!\' -Anonymo,us ONLY ONE SHOWING Sponsored by Professor Gado and the Film Committee B-y AIME SIMON Cristina Calvi hails from Terino, Italy and is cmently a juaior at Union. Her father works for an Italian bank,. San Paolo ai1d he was transferred to a branch in New York City while she was a soplio.more in high schooL She In()ved to the United States alone with her dad while her mGther and older sister Laura (a senior biology major at Union) remained ov~r-seas. When given the choice of attending an Italian high school in Manh~ttan or an American public school, she opted to go to the English speaking one \because I wanted. to learn the language right away. It was a good decision, but it was a shock.'\ Although she had studied English for 4 ye~rs in Italy, t!J.e classes w~rerr't really conv-ersational, and consequently adjllstment to the U.S. was difficult. \The worst thing was answering the telephone. It really terrified me. Normally watching people'.s liJ>s move helped, bllt over the h II p one ... learning English rapidly was clearly a challenge, yet obV'iously a gratifying one, since Cristina now majors in ml)dern languages. \In Italy, during high school, I was C()nsidering a language major. I th()ught that even if I had the kn()wledge of 2 la11guages, it w()uld have bee11 better to knDw more. Today I know three, not including my own.\ Ill addition, she plaDs to live in France next fall on a Term A broad and is considering going on Lo get a PhD in French in order to teach. Another ca.reer possibility would be to work for the UN. Cristina participates in many extracurricular activities and has a variety of interests., She is Co-chair of the ISU, the I11ternational Student Union: \Tbe ISU has C()me a long way since .it began in 1985.\ She admits that \it can sometimes. be very hard to organize events which get the a:ttention of the student body. Rut, I hope that attendance at ISU meetings and functions will continue to i11crease.\ Also, she is Vice-President of the Equestrian Club. This term, she was thrown from a horse which was cantering out of control at a high speed. She strained her siatic netve from the tumble, and had to walk on ''Arriving in New York City, I was amazed by the number .of people on the streets, the huge buildings.\ crutches. Bravely, only 2 weeks later She got back up on the saddle, \very carefully\. Piano is her passion. Cristina is not one of those poor souls who had piano lessons afflicted upon her by ber parents. \II:r 4th and 5th grade I played the electric organ. Then I decided to change to instruction in Piano. I have always used the piano to relax, lo take time for myself away from the tensi()n of the world. Unfortunately, there is now no ]>iano in my dorm so that I have to walk all the way to the Nott Memorial practice rooms to \relax\. Further, she enjoys to travel with her family. In a few short years she has seen mpre of America than n10st Americans, visiting .such exotic and exciting places as Hawaii, Yellow Stone National Park, Williamsburg, Virginia, Niagara Falls, and Martha's Vinyard. ln Italy, \We've seen the whole boot, have been to every region. After all, it is important to know your own country well before you travel to other places.\ This summer the Calvis' are moving to Los Angeles. \I don't feel as anxious as I d-id when I moved from Italy to the States, even .though the distance is almost as far.\ Naturally, as a foreign student, she was asked the typical questi'on about differences between her country and the United States. She replied, \Arriving in New York City, I was amazed by the number of people on the streets, the huge buildings. There was a lot of everything, but also a lot of waste.\ However, \I really like the honesty of the people here. The society is not corrupted. If you have the capacity, you can succeed regardless of the economic status of your family - and its connections.\ She feels that families are not as united in the U.S., and although she is living here, she still remains close to her parents. \In Italy, meals are important. They ate a time when the whole family gets together and talks. Here, you simply open the frig and eat when you are hungry.\ Cristina is happy at Union and looks forward to graduating next winter. The Minerva Hour presents: GARY ALLEN-.FINE Professor of Sociology, University of Minnesota ''MINOR DIFFICULTIES: Th~ Challenges of Youth Facing the 21st Century\ Thursday,. March 1 at 1 1:_30 a.m. in CC Auditorium ALL ARE INVITED TO AT lEND Come See Shades of Grey Sunday 25t}?. 8 p.m. ~ickok Monday 26th 8 p.m. Fox Tuesday 27th 8 _p.m .. Davidson Thursday 1st 8 p.m. SS016 - • •

CQNCOR1J1ENS1S, February 2Z, 19~0 Pag:e 7 INTE,RNATIONAL FEATURES THIS WEEKIN THE WORLD The German reunim fication talks at Ottawa this week were characterized by a complex web of behind- the-scenes . dipl()matic moves . involving repre- sentatives from the wartime allies and the two Gerrnanies. Japan's Liberal . Democratic Pa.rty under Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu held on to · its parliamentary majority in national elections, according to returns. The · Japanese Socialist Party, however, scored significant gains. Catholics and ·Protesants in N()lthern Ireland's second targest · city, Londonderry, are . joining hand·s in determined effort t() revive areas devastated by the strife.· But the aJliance, many realiz;e, is fragile. \ t\ \\MILES ~ 0 40 Some Cath()lics and Protestants are working togetlter to revive Londonderry. Quotation of the Day \The basic radict1l evil in · this society- is unem- ployment. For the first time, we have young people emerging aut of the school system whose fathers never worfced and whose -grandfathers never worked.\ -Edward Daly, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Londonderry. Protesters in B uc harst seized the Romanian provisional government's head- quarters, demanding the ousting of President Ion Iliescu. A top-level regional drug conference between President Bush and the leaders of three · Andean nations concluded with ambitious promises. of cooperation, but skirted most of the major disputes among the nations. Famine relief efforts in Ethiopa are being seriously threatened by the heavy fighting in the nation's- civil war, Western officials say. Nelson Mandela's public remarks have generally fallen short of the expectations of many whites, and some blacks, who had anticipated the kind of inspirational vision that distinguished Martin Luther King. Sweden's Government resigned after losing a vote in Parliament on an economic rescue bill. The resignation set off what could be an extended period of haggling to create a new government. An Indian Airlines plane crashed in the southern city of Bangalore, killing at least 89 people. The plane had been in use for less than two months. - Britain and Argentina decided to resume full diplomatic relatiqns, which had been · broken since the Faikland war in 1982. Courtesy of the New York Times. CALEN.DA;R OF MEETINGS FOR NQ:f\I ... UN·ION TERMS A:BROAD IN THE HUMANITIES FACUL TV LOUNGE 2/2.2/90 - Inter-Study Programmes in Britian/treland, 4 - 5:30 P.M. -- 2/27/90 - Butler University for Great Britain and Australia, 10:30 A.M. - 12:30 P,:M. 2/28/90 - Rockford College for Regents College in London, 3:00P.M. Zug'in :By CARL R. FRIEDRICH, JR. One of the funny things about traveling in .Burope (or anywhere else, I suppose) is the inevitable train trip which is usually remembered as one of the highlights or lowpoints of your trip. Or, for most people, it is that part of the trip which is fondly forgotten. Such was the experience on the ov.ernight train from Munich to Vienna. It all started in the Bahnhof, or train station, in. Munich. The place looked as if it were an ald airplane hanger which survived the war, but I'm sure it wasn't. . The stench of heat and food can · make a traveler wary, but in the Munich Bahnhof, the smells ·of wursts, sweat and heat of ~ummer were too much. A miniature beer garden was the only resolve. Oh, what fools. we were. If there is one thing I can recommend, don't get ·tanked up before a European train ride. Of course, we had quite a few Brotwursts, too. We made it to our train and found our twelve by twelve compartment in which six seats were arranged for maximum discomfort. It was here that they probably feared us as much as we did them. Somehow, I think we Yanks were expecting somewhat of an Orient Express type arrangement with our Eurail passes. The windows in this compartment, 2nd Class, were something to behold. They only opened about a foot and a half, just small enough so that you could not fit your head sideways through it to barf · llut more on that later. Our .Austrian friends had already ,ta]cen tbeir places next to the door, so we of course were t() occupy the window, and dreaded. illiddle seats. I, 9f course. drew ()ne of these. The train p111led out of the station and as we gradually accelerated· out of Munich, a tCondl;lctor earn~ by and asked for our passp()rts and tickets. No mauer who you ate or where you a11e going, this moment sends fear through y()ur body. \Where did I Pll t jt'?\. is not tbe question, but ·rather \Wheredid I lose it?\ Of C()urse our Au~>.trian friends had their credenti1.1ls in their laps and might ~s well have silamped them themselves. I think I found my passport in a spare shoe, which had n<> reason being in my carry-on m the first place, The train was soon up to full s:peed, and the Austrians were !>;Oon fast asleep. Throughout the whole tdp I couldn't believe how t!Iey slept. We, by llbout the second hour of tile trip, were feeling our Oats, and tasting tltem too. This is when my brilliant friend decided that he ought to boot out the window, which Lncidently, the Austrialls wouldn't let \IS. keep open. The stuffiness was incredible. So anyway, ge11ius somehow manages to ge.t his head out tile window and does his thing. UnfortunatelJ, it blew into tile compartment behind us, which had its window open. This, of course, caused quite a disruption in- their car, and quite an eruption (of laughter) in ours. We (not the Austrians who remakabely slept through the whole thi11g) bawled even It mot:e when our friend realized that his head was stuck outside. Well, we didn't have to call the conductors. They ,an-ived quite quickly, .post barfus. They somehow yanked the said friend back inside, though it cost his ears a significant boxing. The conductors proceeded to teach us a whole lot of new and exciting wor<ls. They checked our passports again {it took twenty minutes) and left in a huff. · They don't like you to walk around on these vessels, though you graciously are allowed to use the WC. We all had to go about ever)~ fifteen minutes, and by this time we had no hesitation of de- propping our Austrian friends from the door which they tended to sleep against. Good people, them Austrians. We each got about an hour's sleep that night, and felt absolutely miserable for about two days after. Those damned conductors checked our passports about five times, for what reason I know not. Every time the four of us contorted our bodies into an agreeable position in those cramped quarters, those stilts would comeback. Finally, the gray European morning came into sight, and VienrYa eventually came into being. The Austrians awoke, and now we were to part company. I asked the younger one, I guess he was about forty, how they managed to sleep all night. He replied, in English, \The key. my friend, is not getting drunk, as you all did, but passing out.\ He opened up his carry-on and revealed an empty liter of Schnapps. GOOD NEWS! Foreign language news programs will be shown in the Language Lab (HU 010). 1 All are welcome to attend. Schedule: MONDAYS, WEDNESDAYS & FRIDAYS: FRENCH 1:30 :PM GERMAN 3:00 PM SPANISH 4:0.0 PM TUESDAYS & THURSDAYS: HEBREW 1:30PM CHINESE 2:0() PM JAPANESE 3,: ()() PM RUSSIAN 4:0Cl PM News programs are a.ls() transmitted from many ()ther countries and will be recorded upon request Faculty a1e welcome to borow tapes. Ordinarily, they are kept in the lab for two weeks. · For more informati<>l1, call Carc;l Snyder, Language Lab Technician. X6216. · LANGUAGE LAB HOURS: MONDAY -FRIDAY 8:30AM - 4:30 PM SUNDAY-THURSDAY7:00PM-10:00PM

Page 8 CONCORDJENSJS, Fe!Jruary 22, .1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURE:S Fourteen males and femalese They live together. They have fun together. JOIN IN NEXT YEAR Applications for INTERNATIONAL HOUSE are available by calling 3 70-6834. Leave a good message The East Asian Studies Prog1~am presents a Japanese film with English subtiles GATE OF HELL Winner of Two Academy A wards Tuesday, Feb. 27 7:00 p.m. College Center Auditorium ~ree and Open to the Public Learn Russian ·on the Black Sea This Summ,er: For info call: 1(800) 274-9-121 or attend an Open House Monday, Feb. 26th 5:30-7:30 p.m. at the Princeton Club of NY 15 W.43rd St., New York, NY Greeting~ From Spa1n By KATE KAUFMAN and LAUREN '~ARP Buenos tardos, amigos de Union Coll~ge'!' Greetings from sunny., southern Spain! We all hope that you can make use of all the boots.. rainCol;lts, and parkas, collecting dust in our closets in beautiful, snowy, central Schenectady. We spent a week capt11ring the essence of Madrid tl!rough i:1 Musseo del Prado, Cabalgata del los Reves Magos, E1 Escorial y Valle de los Cardos, and of course through our . nightly excursions to any one of thousands o.f bars for a cerveza, vino, and tapas. We began our journey South and passed through Toledo and Cordoba wbere we experience our first palm trees. The trip was pleasant and uneventful except for 2 minor . episodes. Now everybody likes air conditioni11g, especially in the fair climate of Spain, but it wasn't necessary for the bus driver to ])reak the entire rear window v;ith a stoplight! Secondly, tourists that we were, we all just had to pile out of the bus to take,pictures of the goat herd that was meandering across our path. When we finally arrived in Sevilla, the sun was setting as . we were each handed a packet with only the name of our adopted families and a \good luck\ map of the city. With blind faith,. we were ushered to various taxicabs wlwse drivers alone knew our final destinations. . How was our first week? Cold: no blankets, no b()t water, no heat. Sparse: few telephone lines, few wordswe understood., few sober njghts. Limited: supply of .peanut butter, blonde hair, long skirts. Plethora of: \fashion~conscious men\ orange trees, and New York City drivers (only worse) ... But we needed tnore .excitement. So Professor Pilar \Indiana Jones\ Moyano escorted the crew to the exotic lands of Morocco. Espaping · Spanish life for a moment, we became tourists once again and had our pictures ta:Icen on the big, fat humps of some mean and ugly looking camels. We encountered mysterious wt;>men hidden by veils, men in white robes followed by harems, and a man we'll call \Rashim '' who charmed his snake into discovering a way into a few of our shirts. Finally, we were back home ... well, at least horne for· now, We are e11joying the cross-cultural experience and have learned a lot. We walk proudly through the narrow cobblestone streets of Sevilla lined with fish. markets, fruit vendors, beautiful parks and cathedrals with fon.d memories of America the beautiful. Spain is i superbueno! .. but it is NOTTUnion. \It's indescribable I\ -Anonymous SWEDISH MOVIE Thurs. N,ight 7 p.m. SS016 ~==·~=~ ·~:; ·~::! Sponsored by Prof. Gada & The Film Committee DO IT! WRJT,E FOR INTERN·ATlQN,AL .FEATU.RES! -- c w ;'

Page 8 CONCORDJENSIS .• February 22, 1990 INTERNATIONAL FEATURES Fourteen males and females. They live together. They have fun together. JOIN IN NEXT YEAR Applications for INTERNATIONAL HOUSE are available by calling 370-6834. Leave a good message - • . , .- • ~ , ' • • : I , • • ' ·:· ' • • '. ' , , • ' • ' __..' • : • • •I ' • The East Asian Studies Prog1_.am presents a Japanese film with English subtiles GATE OF HELL Winner of Two Academy Awards Tuesday, Feb. 27 7:00p.m. College Center Auditorium Free and Open to the Public • • • ' • • • 1 • ' • ' • • ' • • • • • • • • ·, - • ' ~ 1 • • • • '• • ' • • - • - Learn Russian on the Black Sea This Summer.· For info call: 1(800) 274-9121 or attend an Open House Monday, Feb. 26th 5:30-7:30 p.m. at the Princeton Club of NY 15 W. 43rd St., New York, NY Greetings From Spain By KATE KAUFMAN and LAUREN KARP Buenos tardos, amigos de Union Col!lege! Greetings from sunny, southern Spain! We all hope that you can make use of an the boots, raincoats, and parkas, collecting d\tlst in our closets in beautiful, snowy, central Schenectady. We spent a week capturing the essence of Madrid through il Musseo del Prado, Cabalgata del los Reves Magos, El Escorial y Valle de los Cardos, and of course through our nightly excursions to any one of thousands of bars for a cerveza, vino, and tapas. We began our journey South and passed through Toledo and Cordoba where we experience our first palm trees. The trip was pleasant and uneventful except for 2 minor episodes. Now everybody likes air conditioning, especially in the fair climate of Spain, but it wasn't necessary for the bus driver to break the entire rear window with a stoplight! SecoHdly, tourists that we were, we all just had to pile out of the bus to take pictures of the goat herd that was meandering across our path. When we finally arrived in Sevilla, the sun was setting as we were each handed a packet with only the name of our adopted families and a \good luck\ map of the city. With blind faith, we were ushered to various taxicabs whose drivers alone knew our final destinations. How was our first week? Cold: no blankets, no hot water, no heat. Sparse: few telephone lines, few words we understood, few sober nights. Limited: supply of peanut bwtter, blonde hair, long skirts. Plethora of: \fashion-conscious men\ orange trees, and New York City drivers (only worse) ... But we needed more excitement. So Professor Pilar \Indiana Jones\ Moyano escorted the crew to the exotic lands of Morocco. Escaping Spanish life for a moment, we became tourists once again and had our pictures taken on the big, fat humps of some mean and ugly looking camels. We encountered mysterious women hidden by veils, men in white robes followed by harems, and a man we'll call \Rashim\ who charmed his snake into discovering a way into a few of our shirts. Finally, we were back home ... well, at least home for · now. We are enjoying the cross-cultural experience and have learned a lot. We walk proudly through the narrow cobblestone streets of Sevilla lined with fish markets, fruit vendors, beautiful parks and cathedrals with fond memories of America the beautiful. Spain is i superbueno! .. but it is NOTTUnion . \It's indescribable!\ -Anonymous SWEDISH MOVIE Thurs. N-ight 7 p.m. SS016 FREE! Sponsored by Prof. Gada & The Film Committee DO IT! WRITE FOR INTERNATIONAL FEATURES! ( v ~'--

' I ,, su~~[~1ER JOB FAIR. -·· ····· · · CONCOJU>IENSI'Sr February' \22 'f99()' · · ·· - · • MOVIE. ' .t. $ ~ by Vllgot Sjoman y; :l~·i. <:£ Page· .9 •. COLLEGE CENTER ATRIUM~~ .. WEDf\lE5DAY FEB. 28, l 990 10:00 am to 1:00pm -·· ~~ ... ·. 7:00 PM TONIGH;'T Discus.slon to For details call the CDC at 370-6176 the Women's Union invites all Union College women to its next meeting: Thursday, February 22nd Noon to 1:00 . CC 4th floor lounge Agenda: Discussion on.. Security at Union College If you are interested but cannot attend, or would like more ffiformathon pl~ase let us. know: 465-0176 B()X 2161 fo~llow Mountebanlts .. Feb. 27, 28 Mar. 1 ,2,3 8:pn1 Matinee - Mar. 3, 2:pm . ' Spea:k with PRESIDENT ·MORRIS on the BOTTOM LINE (A special edition) No·tt Memorial Theater Box Office 370-6153 THURS.DAY, MARCH 1st 9:o·o p.m. on WRUC 89.7 FM Co-Hosts: Mark Richter and Nat Keller Enjoy PASTA FAGG/OL/ every Friday for only $2.50 · with Garlic Bread · THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!!

,· (\{)\' \ 1 . • · • ;I o,q..> • • ':; ' \ ': ', ,, •, t , I l:' '. • t \ CONCORDIENSIS, February 22, 1990 Page 9 su~,f~fER JOB F~t\IR COLLEGE CENTER A TR I UN ~~ , WED~IESDAY FEB. 28_, 1990 10:00 am to 1:00pm For detai 1 s ca 1l the CDC at 370-61 7 6 ' the Women's Union invites all Union College women to its next meeting: Thursday, February 22nd Noon to 1 :00 CC 4-th floor lounge Agenda: Discussion on Security at Union College If you are interested but cannot attend, or would like more information please let us know: 465-0176 Box 2161 'MOVIE by VHgot Sjoman 7:00 PM TONIGH~J D:iscussion to follow Mountebanks Presents Feb. 27, 28 Mar. 1 ,2,3 B:p1n Speak with PRESIDENT MORRIS on the BOTTOM LINE (A special edition) THURSDAY, MARCH 1st 9:00 p.m. on WRUC 89.7 FM Co-Hosts: Mark Richter and Nat Keller Matinee ... Mar. 3, 2:pm Nott Mernorial Theater Box Offico 370-6153 The Union College Philosophy. Department Is pleased to announce the following public lecture From Genesis to Garbage: the Conceptual Roots of Our Solid Waste Crisis by Professor William Vitek Center for Liberal Studies Clarkson University March 1 , 1990 8:00P.M. in the College Center Auditorium Enjoy PASTA FAGG/OL/ every Friday for only $2.50 with Garlic Bread THE WAY YOU LIKE IT!!

Page 10 CONCORDIENSIS, Ftbruary 22, 1990 SCIENCE & TECHNOL·OGY Pl.anet In Peril -An Environmental OpiniDII Survey OVERVIEW The overwhelming majority of America's college students, much maligned as materialistic, socially uncerned and ideologically disconnected, are, in fact, intensely concerned about environmental quality, according toa survey conducted during November, 1989 for t:he National Wildlife Federation (NWF), the nation's largest environmental organization. The survey was conducted by Hughes Research Corporation, a national research firm based in Rockville, Maryland. The survey was undertaken to assess awareness and concern for environmental issueson America's campuses, where much of the environmental fervor was based in the 1960s and where many of tomorrow's leaders are being educated. The survey also sought to determine whether co liege students were actively involved in environmental issurs and to whom they looked-- government, industry or private individuals-- to solve the growing list of environmental ills. College students are concerned about -environmental quality * Students consider themselves to be highly familiar with and concerned about a wide variety of environmental issues. * Many students agree that they are more concerned about the environment than most of the people they know. Environmental conditions are worse today than they were five years ago and will continue to decline over the next five years. * Three-quarters of college students surveyed disagree that the overall quality of the environment is better now than it was five years ago. * Over two-thirds think that the quality of our environment wlH get worse over the next five years. * Students agree that when they vote, the candidate's position on protecting the environment i:s an important factor in their decision. ~ '* Whenc()nsidering the most urgent environmental problem facing the United States today, one-half of the students surveyed :pointed to air and atmospheric problems, such as ozone depletion, global warming, the greenhouse effect and acid rain. . Citiz.ens and the government hold the primary responsibility for protecting the en'Vir(mment * Many students agree that industry is rn()re concerned about protecting the environment today than it was five years ago. However, they also agree that industry forces government to pass less effective laws for protecting the environment. * College students do not tend to think of private industry as having primary responsibility for protecting the environment. Rather, they feel that citizens in general and the government hold primary responsibility and agree that the federal government should spend mo:re money on the environment and less on defense. * Additionally, nine in ten agreed that Congress should pass .tougher laws to protect the environment. Nine ill ten agree that they would be willing to pay more for products and packagiJ!g that are safe for tile environment * Students as a group admit that they are not particularly active when it comes to environmental issues and conservation. However, three- quarters (76%) feel that there is something they personally can do to help protect the environment, such as becoming involved in environmental organizations, recycling paper, aluminum and glass, not littering and reducing their use of styrofoam, aerosol and other environmentally harmful products. * Nine in ten (94%) agree ' that they would be wiling to pay more for products and packaging that are safe for the environment. * Three-quarters agree that recycling of neW,spapers, glass and cans should he required by law in all communities. * Nearly three-quarters disagree that we should be prepared to sacrifice environmental quality for economic growtll. Nine in ten agree that most college students do not know enough- about e11vironmental problems and their solutions * College students ofen agree that the media does a good job of keeping them informed about environmental issues. Students tend .to look to newspapers (35%), television and radio (23%), magazines (14%), and campus organizations and classes (17%) for most of their information about the environment and conservation. * Nine in ten agree that most college students do not know enough about environmental problems and their solutions. . * Many feeltilat if they had more information about how they could help protect the environment, they would be likely to make a more personal effort to do so. * Students overwhelmingly agree (94%) that they can make a difference when it comes to protecting the environment. .Problem of the Week Sixth problem: Find an incresing sequence of twelve positive . · integers, no one of which d_ivides any other. . a.nd for which the sum of the largest and smallest is minimized. Tb ree solutions were submitted to the fifth problem. but each solution missed a special case. Reme·mber, an un.solved problem remains open and its prize is still available. Solutions should be submitted to Lois Bing in the Mathematics Department Office between the hours of9 a.m.- 11 a.m and 2 p.rh.- 4 p.m .. ··Monday through Friday. The winner of the weekly $10 prize will be selected rando·m'ty from those who submittedcorrect_solutions by 11 a.m. of the Monda:y.after the problem has appeared in C·oncordle~sts. The name ofthe winner and the names ofall other:s who submit correct solutions will accompany the following week's problem in the Concordlensls. Correct solutions will be posted on the bulletin board outside Bailey 106. COLLEGE STUDENTS CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE THE BIOLOGY DEPARTM·ENT and BIOLOGY CLUB Present p E R c E N T A G E 50 40: 30 20 10 0 AGREE AGREE NEITHER DISAGREE DISAGREE STRONGLY SOMEWHAT AGREE SOMEWHAT STRONGLY NOR DISAGREE COLUIGESTUDENTS CAN MAKE A DIFFERENCE WHEN IT COMES TO PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT. POL YAMINES AN;D THE RESEARCHER HELENA BIRECKA Professor of Biology Union College Thursday, Feb. 22, 1990 4:40P.M. . SOCIAL SCIENCES Room 112 REFRESHMENTS 4:30 - -

SC·lENCE & TECHNOLOGY p E R c E N T A G E MORE MONEY FOR EMVIRONM'ENT LESS FOR DEFENSE 50 40 30 20 10 0 A~REE AGREE NEITHEil DISAGREE DISAG~EE .STRON-GLY SOMEWHAT A:GR~E SOMEWHAT STRONGLY NOll ~ISAGfiEE THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHOI!LfJ SPEND MORE ON PROTECTING 1FHE ENVIRONMENT AIJV LESS ON'DEFENSE. PRIMARY RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROTECTING ENVI'RONMENT 20 40 60 PERCENTAGE WHO DO YOLI THINK HAS THE PRINARY RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROTECT/fiG THE ENVIRONMENT'i SOME STIJOENn fELT THAT ,-,.iERE WAS MOirE 7HAN.ONE WHO HELO PRIMARY RESFONSIBli.lrV 6'011 PROTECTING TH~ El'llliiUJitlllfENT. AS A RESULT, THE PERCENTAGEs; ADO ro·uoRE 7HAN 100\ MOST URGENT ENViRO-NMENTAL PROBLEM ( ALLOTti~R~!!~jj~~~~~[1~6~%~=====1• LOSS mOI'ICAL RAIN FOii1l15T = 3% WATER POLUfllOH TFIASH/OARBoAGIE ACID liMN AIR POI:UJ:liCN .4% \7% 8% . . .. . . . .. 23o/a GLOBAL WARI.II~G- 2% QREEHHOUSEEFilECTj~~~~6;%~·· ~~~~~j~~===3 OZONE DEPLE1101* 20% . 0 Hl 20 PERCENTAGE WHAT 00'\'0USIE~ AS THE AfOS'r·VR<;iENT ENVIRONMENTAL PROB.LEM FACING THE UNITeD STATES TODAY? p E R c E N T A G E R:ECYCLING REQUIRED BY LAW ' 38'/.o AGREE AGREE NEITHER DISAGREE DISAGREE SiROi'lGLY SOMEWHAT AGREE SOMEWHAT STRONGLY NOR DISAGREE RECYCLING OF NEWSPAPIERS, GLASS AND CANS SHOULD BE JiEQVIRED BYLAW IN ALL COMMUNITIES. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY 40% 0 .t...111111LL A<lREE AGREE NEITHER DISAGREE DISAGREE STRONGLY SOMEWHAT AGREE SOMEWHAT STRONGLY NOR DISAGREE THE OVERALL QUALITY OF THE ENVIRONMENT IS BETTER NOW THAN IT WAS FI\IE YEARS AGO. FAMILlAR1TV WITH ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES LOSS:OF WETLANDS G~OSAL WARMING UNDERGROUND WATER'POLLUTION ENDANGERED PLI\tiTS AND ANIMALS 69% 72% 77% 88% TOXIC WASTE ACID RAIN SMOG OIL SPILLS· 0 20 . 40 60 88% 89% 92% 92% 96% BO 100 PERCENTAGE FAMILIAR WITH WHICH OF THESE ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES A~E VOt) FAMILIAR WITH? Page 11

Page 12 CONCORDJ:ENSIS, Fev~uary 22, 1990 <llJlltfllrhirttsis: ·LETTERS ---------------------------------------··--~ .. ~---- ----Founded at Union College 1877----- Waste Not Want Not ... TheFe are three things one can count on in 1ife: death, taxes, and tuition hikes .. While Union students have no choice about deatll and taxes, tuition hikes may be controllable. That is. not t() say that tuition hikes can be completely avoided, but smaller hikes than those we are used to would · be both welcome and attainable. Dormitory residents who have to open windows in the middle of January in order to regulate their rooms to sub-tropic temperature~ cannot help but wonder why they are spending thousands of dollars to heat the streets of Schenectady, and to no avail. Even those wh() have their own living arrangements have surely been in a classroom that is heated to unbearable temperatures. The energy that the College is using to excessively heat dorm rooms, classrooms, and offices could be saved and used more efficiently. · For example, the Pink Panther could be hired as a guest speaker with some of the savings. He coald teach us all a lesson on the value of insulation. Insulation is absent from many (){ the older buildings on campus. And since many of the campus buildings fall into the older variety, this is a serious problem. Unless a building has been completely rehabilitated, it probably doesn't have insulaton. Some of the buildings that fall into this category are North and South dorms and the Psychology and Arts buildings. Storm wmdows are another useful, money- saving device. They have been instalted in some of the dorms and in the Memorial Chapel However, Fox and Davidson, because of their swing-out windows, cannot accept storm windows. Many buildings with storm windows still experience air infiltration due to improper weather-stripping and caulking. All of these elements contribute to overheating in the buildings. Furthermore, they seem to pin all of the blame on the school and the Physical Plant. But the students help to comp]ete what is a vicious circle of overheating. Everyone is uncomfortable in the ex.treme heat. So, the obvious remedy is to open windows. However~ this understandable reaction only exacerbates the problem. The thermostats register temperatures lower than what they actually are, and then the system compensates by piping more heat to the scene of the crime. The windows rise and so Jo the temperatures. So do our heating bills. So does our tuition. Students also commit other energy misdemeanors. For example, they leav~ lights .()n and excessively run appliances (popcorn poppers, stereos, etc.) which consume wasted watts. No one is condemning the use of these appliances, but who among us has not left their receiver on long afer a tape or disc has finished playing? People do not pay attention to energy conservation unless there is a crisis at hand. Eut Niagara Mohawk has recently raised its rates, and the effects will be felt hy all of us. 'The growing trend in energy is escalation in cost. The College must combat this trend by making certain sturctural improvementst and the students, through a raised counsciousness, must do their part to conserve as well. Administrative Rulings :Spark More Anger To The Editor: As I began to read the Feb. 14 issue of Conc()tdiensis, I was struck by the- front page article. In large priRt was \Administration Seals Fate On Camp Union\. This title alone filled my body with complete rage. It clearly seems that the administration of this school is not working for the students, but rather for the administration. While I am sitting reading the rest of the school paper, there. right above that infamous title, is a picture of our beloved Dean of Students with a smirk on his face that says \I did it and I don't care.\ It seems clear that the administration doesn't care· for the students at all. If the school is going to take away every fun, relaxingactivi~ that this campus offers, the least they could do would be to give us some equal alternatives; but they haven't. As I continued,to read this lovely issue of Concordiensis, I finally reached my limit point and my point of inspiration, the letters to the editor. I began to read the first one telling of the committee of students chosen to pick a new English AU .. LETTERS TO THE EDITOR MUST BE TYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUBM1TIED TO THE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON'THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LEITERS AND TIIOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS Wll..LNOTBE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not ' necessarily reflect the . . . OplDI()DS of the Editorial Board. department personnel, but only to have their decision completely dismissed without any regard to what it was. Next was the letter from an alumnus, that stated the school can dearly ask for money the day following .graduation, but to have you come back to the campus was not allowed. I think these are valid points that · these people are making. How can we go to a school ofhigher leaming where the number one priority of the administration is the administration, not the students. I think we are seeing some misconstrued ideas. I tbink it is about time that the students Of this campus stan to take some action about wltat has been going on by the administration. They will continue to pass policy after policy, hurting the social life on this campus, without any care to the student body. It seems that this school is heading in the direction of the all-male days, but soon it seems it will become a rnilitaJ:y college. After~ the administration has made every possible social reform they could make where will they go from there? Last year was the be~nning of when 1 noticed the scho<>l was being \take.11 over\ by .tile administration. This was when the school decided torevoke tlle housing pri viileges of Delta Cbi. Their reason for this was that. they naven~t been able to meet the occupancy quota for the last couple of years. Tllat is •. they weren't able to maintain a 75%~ an 82%, and a 88% occupancy rate. I guess &1 of these are just far worse titan a less than 50% rate that tlle school \fiUed\ Raymond HoLJse with as compared to a minimal 98% occupancy that the DeJta Chi fraternity would have filled it with this year .. It is these inteHigent decisions that Me corning fr~rn the befuddled minds that .are ruining this school. I have a real good. idea for the administration: why not be,gin to pass new policies that will actually help the students or that the students won't directly oppose? I k~ow it. is not easy to do. but sta:rt to make the stud'ents the reason you are here, the number one prio.rity on your list, not y<>ur reputation, bec.ause I think we all know how tllat is already. Lee Mete hick '9'2 Winter est. 1990!! THIS WEEKEND . • ... ..

Page 12 CONCON.DlENSfS} February 22, 1990 <llnnrorhirnsis -----Founded at Union Colle{Te 1877--- Waste Not Want Not ... There are three things one can count on in life: death, taxes, and tuition hikes. While Union students have no choice about death and taxes, tuition hikes may be controllable. That is not to say that tuition hikes can be completely avoided, but smaller hikes than those we are used to would he both welcome and attainable. Dormitory residents who have to open windows in the middle of January in order to regulate their rooms to sub-tropic temperatures cannot help but wonder why they are spending thousands of dollars to heat the streets of Schenectady, and to no avail. Even those who have their own living arrangements have sl!lrely been in a classroom that is heated to unbearable temperatures. The energy that the College is using to excessively heat dorm rooms, classrooms, and offices could be saved and used more efficiently. For example, the Pink Panther could be hired as a guest speaker with some of the savings. He could teach us all a lesson on the value of insulation. Insulation is absent from many of the older buildings on campus. And since many of the campus buildings fall into the older variety, this is a serious problem. Unless a building has been completely rehabilitated, it probably doesn't have insulaton. Some of the buildings that fall into this category are North and South dorms and the Psychology and Arts buildings. Storm wmdows are another useful, money- saving device. They have been installed in some of the dorms and in the Memorial Chapel. However, Fox and Davidson, because of their swing-out windows, cannot accept storm windows. Many buildings with storm windows still experience air infiltration due to improper weather-stripping and caulking. All of these elements contribute to overheating in the building~. Furthermore, they seem to pin all of the blame on the school and the Physical Plant. But the students help to complete what is a vicious circle of overheating. Everyone is uncomfortable in the extreme heat. So, the obvious remedy is to open windows. However, this understandable reaction only exacerbates the problem. The thennostats register temperatures lower than what they actually are, and then the system compensates by piping more heat to the scene of the crime. The windows rise and so do the temperatures. So do our heating bills. So does our tuition. Students also commit other energy misdemeanors. For example, they leave lights on and excessively run appliances (popcorn poppers, stereos, etc.) which consume wasted watts. No one is condemning the use of these appliances, but who among us has not left their receiver on long afer a tape or disc has finished playing? People do not pay attention to energy conservation unless there is a crisis at hand. But Niagara Mohawk has recently raised its rates, and the effects will be felt by all of us. The growing trend in energy is escalation in cost. The College must combat this trend by making certain sturctural improvements, and the students, through a raised counsciousness, must do their part to conserve as well. LETT'ERS Administrative Rulings Spark More Anger To The Edit01: As I begBil to read the Feb. 14 issue of Concordiensis, I was struck by the front page aiticle. In la.rge print was \Administration Seals Fate On Camp Unian \. This title alone filled my bo<ly with complete rage. It clearly seems that the administrati()oR of this school is not working for the students, but rather for the administra ti<On. While I am sitting readilllg the rest of the school paper, there, right above that ·infamcm s title, is a picture of our be-loved Dean of Students witll a smirk on his face that says \I did it and I don't care.\' It seems clear that the administration doesn't care for the stuclents at all. If the school is going to take away every fun, relaxing activitY that this campus offers, the least they could d:o would be to give us some eq11al alternatives; but they havea't~ As I co11t.inued to read this lovely issue of Concordiiensis, I finally reached my lLmit point and my point of ins]Jiration, the letters to the editor. I began to read the first O!lle telling of the committee cf students chosen to -pick a new English AUJ LEITERS TO THE ED lTOR MUST BErfYPED, DOUBLE SPACED AND SUl3MITIED TO TilE CONCORDIENSIS OFFICE BY 4:00 P.M. ON THE PRECEEDING WEEKLY ISSUANCE OF CONCORDIENSIS. ANONYMOUS LETrERSAND 1HOSE OVER FIVE HUNDRED WORDS WILL NOT BE ACCEPTED. Letters to the Editor do not necessarily reflect the • • op1n1ons of the Editorial Board. department personnel, but only to have their decision completely dismissed without any regrud to what it was. Nex.t was the letter from an alumnus, that sta:ted the school can clearly ask for money the day following graduation, but to have you come back to the campus was not allowed. I think these are valid points that these people are making. How can we go to a school of higher learning where the number one priority of the administration is the administration, not the studems. I think we are seeing some misconstrued ideas. I think it is about time that the students of this campus start to take some action about what has been going on by the administration. They will continue to pass policy after policy, hurting the social life on this campus. without any care to the student body. lt seems that this school is heading in the direction of tile all-male days, but soon it seems it will become a military college. After tile administration has made every possible social reform they could make where will they go from there? Last year was the beginning of when I noticed the school was being \taken ()Ver\ by the adminislration. This was when the school decided tr> revoke the hol!lsing privileges of Delta Chi. Their reason for this was that they haven't been able to meet the occupancy quota for the last couple of years. That is. they weren't able to maintain a 75%, aiJ ~2%, and a 88% occupancy rate. I guess all of these are just far worse than a less than 50% rate that the school \filled\ Raymond HoHse with as compared \()a minimal 98% occupancy ,that the Delta Chi fraternity would have filled it with this year. It is these intelligent decisions that are corning from the befuddled mi11ds that are ruining this scho()l. I have a real good idea for the administration: why not begin to pass new policies that will actually help the students or that the students won't directly oppose? I know it is not easy to do, but start to make the students the reason you are here, the number one priority on your list, not your reputation, because I think we all know how that is already. Lee Mete hick '92 Winter·\est 1990!! J THIS WEEKEND

·coNCORDIENSlS, February 22, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS Students S,elected for Success Tak~ a Stand Against Acquaintance Rape- Note: Although it is 1wt normal po Ucy for Cf!ncordiensis to publish letters meant for Tile U~Jion Sentinel, this issur;~ is relevant to the College community and because T_he Sentinel does not publish every week, 'the authots .of this le-tter felt it necessary to reach the community immediately. To the Edi(Or: In the February 13 issue of The Union Sentinel, Amy Damarjian made a number of ~sertioll(; and arguments, some of which should not go unchallenged within the Cullege community. In particular we want to address two of those assertions. We believe that it would be incorrect to assume that private liberal arts colleges of high quality admit students who are \substandard\. That does not mean that all students are equally well prepared by virtue of the quality of secondary school attended. But it does mean that all good colleges make special efforts. to identify students who have tne ability to succeed in spite of having attended a secondary schooi which lacked the resources necessary to provide the best- possible preparation. Amy Damarjian asks \What · person with any ego would accept a position that he did not earn but was given for other secondary reasons?\ li should he made clear that it is not easy to calculate who \earns\ bis or her place in society or in a college. All of us have been given advantages in life, some more than others. In general there is little reason to feel sorry for \white males\ as a category. If we were to examine the category 0f white males who attend .good liberal arts colleges we would find that significant numbers would , have the advantages of a substantial. degr~ of affluence, access to private schools or high quality public high schools, access to tutoring. access to courses to prepare one for taking standardized tests, a history of college attendance among family memers and friends, etc. Given these ·advantages, would it be fair to say that such people do not \earn\ their admission to college? We would not choose to do so. But we would ask whether Amy Damarjian has a constricted view of what constitutes advantage in American society and what the nature of the distribution of advantage is? Sincerely yours, Joseph Mammola Dean of Students m James E. Underwood Dean of the Faculty To the Editor: We, the undersigned members of tlte Union College Community~ rduse to tolerate · the occurrence of acquaintance rape at Union College. We believe instances of acquaintance rape may have occurred at Union and may continue 11nless the entire Union commu:nity takes measures to stop it. Rape is 'Legally defined as forcing a woman to have sexual interc()llrse against her will. Acquai11tance. or date rape, is so called because the perpetrator is someone the victim knows. There are several misconceptions. about acquaintance rope. Forced sex is still.acquaintallce rape in all the following sitllations: 1. Assaila11t. and victim are friends. 2. Assailant and victim have . dated before. 3. Assailant and victim have had previous sexual contact 4. Th.e victim ·initiated limited p~ysical contact To men of this community, be aware that forced sex. by coerdon or intimidation is rape. Unless both partners conse.rit, a crime is being committed. Ask. If a woman says no, assume that no means ·~NO\. Even slight resistance or silence does not mean yes. Only \yes\ means yes. To the women of this community, we ask that you make yotirself aware of the best prevention strategies: Educate your.sel ves, be aware of potentially dangerous situatio11s, and ccnvey your intenti0ns with clarity. It is important to be clear in your communication, and don't be afraid to be assertive. Passivity. submiss.iveness, and . c.oyness are themselves dangerous and can create a climate for sexual aggression. If he doesn't believe you mean no, tell him again. If he still persists, don't hesitate to stop · him any way you can. if you have been a victim. tell someone, it is never too late to get help. Talk to anyone you trust about it. Some of the people you can contact are the Union college Counseling Center at 370-6161,. the Dean of Students Office at 370-6116, Security and Safety at 370- 6911, your Area Coordinator, and the Schenectady Rape Crisis 24- Hour Hotlne at 346- 2266. All of these phone numers are listed in the Campus Directory. To the entire community, educate yourselves about this issue. Acquaintance rape is not a myth, it is a crime. It is punishable by the college and the police. If the victim chooses, those accused will have proceedings taken against them. Those guilty will be punished; just like any crime . Please take a stand against acquaintance mpe. Sincerely, The Peer Relations Committee Support Union's Future To the Editor: Througll<lut my years at Union, Ihavespenta great deal of. time W()rking for the Development Offilce in many different capacities. As such, I have been asked t:o write this letter to tile Senior Class on behalf of tlte Senior Gift Drive. level of excellence we have enjoyed, it is vital that we, as: new alumni, continue to support Union by donating to the Senior Gift Drive. Immature Fans Ruin Fun As we prepare to graduate, it is importaiJt for us to think back over !be past four years of our lives and decide what Union ·has given us .. It is very easy for us to say that we have gotten little from the ·college. I have heard many people say things to this effect. However, I find it difficult to believe that this is the case for anyone. At the very least, each of us has gotten a qu&ity .education. I believe that each of us has gotten much more than that. However, I will address only the notion cfeducation. increase each of our years here'. Yet the tuition md fees that each student pays cever only roughly two-thirds of the actual cost per .student here at Union. The remaining operating costs are met by support from alumniv parents., and friends. The greatest source of funding is alumni dollatiolls_ In addition, a high ~rcentage of alumni participati()n in giving allows Union to qualify for corporate and f()undation grants. I realize that our years here have been years of change-· for us and for Union. Most of the College's changes have been societal changes which Union must follow in order to survive. The Union we once knew as freshmen has changed, and the freshmen Union knew as the Class of 1990 have also changed. Instead of looking in the past, we must support Union for the future. This support can take many forms, such as continued involvement in Union activities and support for the Annual Fund. · To the Editor: On Saturday, February 10, at Achilles Rink, I witnessed the worst example of sportsmanship I've ever seen at a college hockey game. After losing a well-played game to Bowdoin, the Union hookey team stood at center ice to shake the hands of their opponents. Meanwhile, an ent:U:e section of their \fans\, who appeared to be Union stude11ts, were pelting the Bowdoin team with dozens of pieces of fruit. Worse, the rink sc c uri ty, coaches and administration did nothing to stop this infantile When I guard, he Shrugged and, gave me a \boys will be boys\ look. This sends the message to all the kids at the game that this kind of behavior is acceptable. - It's up to the .• Union · community, especially the players and coaches, to rend the message that they don't need these kinds of \fans\. Their actions spoiled a great effort put in by the Union team. Although I'm not a Union fan; I'm a fan of all good hockey, and attend college and pro games throughout the area. If incidents like this continue, I won't be seeing any more at Union. Gary Toth Union is an expensive school, and we have seen the cost of a Union education We have been afforded the advantages of a small college. These include a high faculty/student ratio which allows for an accessible faculty. a quality faculty-- many of whom are outstanding figures in their respective fields, and a closer, more familiar student b-ody, as well as many other advantages. As we prepare to leave Union, we must <lonsider the futute <Of our alma mater. In order for Union to main.tain the Please join me in making a donation to the Senior Gift Drive. No matter the amount, your support is needed and will be appreciated. Sincerely, Edward F. Stevens '90 De1velc1pment Intern SENIORS Thought about speaking at :Commencement? If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page (aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone 'numbers. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be notified ~bout an audition. \Why thank you •••• thank you very muchl\

CONCORDIENSIS, February 22, 1990 Page 13 LETTERS Students s.elected for Success Take a Stand Against Acquaintance Rape Note: Altho11.·gh it is not normal p.()/icy for Concordiens is to pubUsn letters meant jr0r The Union S en tine l, chis issue is relevant to the College community arrri because The Sentinel dcn.s not publish every week, the authors of this letter felt it llec.essary to reacrz the community irnmediately. To the Editor: In the February 13 issue o-f The Union Sentinel, Am:Y Damarjian made a number ~f assertions ami Mgurnents. some of which sllould not g<J unchallenged within the College ccmmunity. In particular we 'wVant to address two of those as:Settions. We believethat it would l>e incorrect to ass:ume that private liberal arts colleges of high quality admits t:lldents who are \substandard\. That does not mean that all students are equally well pr-epared by virt11e of the quality of secondary school attenrled. But it does mean that all good colleges make special efforts to identify students who !have the ability to succeed in spite of havi11g attended a se<:ondary schoCJl which lacked. the resources necessary to provide the b~st possible pre{)aratiofl. Amy Darnarjian asks \Wh.at person with :any ego would. accept a position that he did not earn but was givea for other secondary reasons?\ It should be made clear that it is not easy to calculate who \earns\ his or her place in society or in a college. Al:l of us have been given advantages in life. some more than others. In general there is little reason to feel sorry for \white males\ as a category. If we were to examine the category of white males who attend good Hberal arts colleges we would find that significant numbers would have tl1e advantages of a substantial degree of affluence, access to private schools or high quality public high schools, access to tutoring, access to courses to prepare one for taking standardized tests, a history of college attendance among family memers and friends, etc. Given these advantages, would it be fair to say that such people do not \earn\ their admission to college'? We would not choose to do so. But we would ask whether Amy Damarjian has a constricted view of what constitutes advantage in American society and what the nature of the distribution of advantage is? Sincerely yours, Joseph Mammola Dean of Students and James E. Underwood Dean of the Faculty To the Editor: We, the undersigned members of the Union College Community, refuse to tolerate the occurrence of acquaintance rape at Union College. We believe instances of acquaintance rape may have occurred at Union and may continue unless the entire Union community takes measures to stop it Rape is legally defined as forcing a woman to have sexual intercourse against her will. AcquaintaRce, or date rape, is so called because the perpetrator is someone the victim knows. There are several misconceptions about acquaintance rape. Forced sex is still acquaintance rape in all the following situations: 1. Assailant and victim are friends. 2. Assailant and victim have dated before. 3. Assailant and victim have had previous sexual contact 4. The victim initiated limited physical contact. To men of this community, be aware that forced sex by coercion or intimidation is rape. Unless boih partners consent, a crime is being committed. Ask. If a woman says no, assume that no means \NO\. Even slight resistance or silence docs not mean yes. Only \yes\ means yes. To the women of this commHnity, we ask that you make yourself aware of the best prevention strategies: Educate yourselves, be aware of potentially dangerous situations, and convey your intentions with clarity. It is important to be clear in your communicatioA, and don't be afraid to be assertive. Passivity, submissiveness, and coyness are themselves dangerous and can create a climate for sexual aggression. If he doesn't believe you mean no, tell him again. If he still persists, don't hesitate to stop him any way you can. If you have been a victim, tell someone, it is never too late to get help. Talk to anyone you trust about it. Some of the people you can coNtact arc the Union college Counseling Center at 370-6161, the Dean of Students Office at 370-6116, Security and Safety at 3 70- 6911, your Area Coordinator, and the Schenectady Rape Crisis 24-Hour Hotlne at 346- 2266. All of these phone numers arc listed in the Campus Directory. To the entire community, educate yourselves about this issue. AcquaiFltance rape is not a myth, it is a crime. [t is punishable by the college and the police. If the victim chooses, those accused will have proceedings taken against them. Those gailty will be punished; just like any crime. Please take a stand against acquaintance rape. Sincerely, The Peer Relations Committee Support Union's Future To the Editor: Throughout my years at Union, I have spent a great deal of time working for the Development Office in many different capacities. As such, I have been asked to write this letter to the Senior Class on behalf of the Senior Gift Drive. level of excellence we have enjoyed, it is vital that we, as new alumni, continue to support Union by donating to the Senior Gift Drive. Immature Fans Ruin Fun As we prepare to graduate, it is important for us to think back over the past four years of our lives and decide what Union has given us. It is very easy for us to say that we have gotten little from the college. I have heard many people say things to this effect. However. I find it difficult to believe that this is the case for anyone. At the very least, each of us has gotten a quality education. I believe that each of us has gotten much more than that. However, I will address only the notion of education. increase each of our years here. Yet the tuition and fees that each student pays cover only roughly two-thirds of the actual cost per student here at Union. The remaining operating costs are met by support from alumni, parents, and friends. The greatest source of funding is alumni donations. In addition. a high percentage of alumni participation in giving allows Union to qualify for corporate and foundation grants. I realize that our years here have been years of change-- for us and for Union. Most of the College's changes have been societal changes which Union must follow in order to survive. The Ur1ion we once knew as freshmen has changed, and the freshmen Union knew as the Class of 1990 have also changed. Instead of looking in the past, we must support Union for the future. 1'his support can take many forms, such as continued involvement in Union activities and support for the Annual Fund. To the Editol': On Saturd.a:,r, February 10, at Achilles Rint, I witnessed the worst example of sportsmansllip ['ve ever seeit a.t a college hoctey game. After losiitg a well-play-ed game to Bowdoin. the Uni..on hockey team stood at center :ice to shake th~ hands of their opponents. Meanwhile, m entire sectiG!li of their \fan.s'\, who appe1tred. to be Union students, \Vere pelting th,e Bowdoin teanl with dozens c;f pieces of fruit. Worse, the rinli: security. c oac hcs a n<l administration did nothing l<J stop this i11fantile display. When I one sectll\lt·-v guard, he shrugged and_ gave me a \boys will be boys\ lGok. This sends the message to all the kids at the game that this kind ofbehavior is acceptable. It's up to the Union commanity, especially the players and coaches, to send the message that they don't need these kinds of \fans\. Their actions spoiled a great eff<Jrt put in by the Union team. Although I'm not a Union fan, I'm a fan of all good hockey, and attend college and pro games throughout the area. If incidents like this continue, I won't be seeing any more at Union. Gary roth Union is an expensive school, and we have seen the cost of a Union education We have been afforded the advantages of a small college. These include a high faculty/student ratio which allows for an accessible faculty, a quality faculty-- many of whom are outstanding figures in their respective fields, and a closer, more familiar student body, as well as many other advantages. As we prepare to leave Union, we must consider the future of our alma mater. In order for Union to maintain the Please join me in making a donation to the Senior Gift Drive. No matter the amount, your support is needed and will be appreciated. Sincerely, Edward F. Stevens '90 \nn Intern SENIORS Thought about speaking Commencement? at If you are interested in speaking, submit a 1-4 page ( aprox. 5 min.) draft to MRS. MARRA in CC 408 by FRIDAY, MAY 4th. The topic is yours to choose. Please include your ID number, name, box and phone numbers. If you wish to sing the Alma Mater and the National Anthem, please send your name, box and phone numbers to Mrs. Marra, CC408 before Friday, May 4 and you will be notified about an audition. \Wny. tliank you •••• lhe~nk you very muchl\

Page 14 CONCORDIENSIS, Ji'e,bruary~22-, 1990 ~~ ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT ~----------------------------------------------------------------- Proctors' to Match County Challenge Grant with Me,mbership Funds Charles Drago, Chairman of the Schenectady County Legislature, announced today that Schenectady County has offered a $350,000 challenge grant to Proctor's Theater. Over the next two years, Schenectady County will match, up to $350,000, contributions from other sources to Proctor's Theater. This challenge grant is in addition to the County's annual contribution to Proctor's funded by our hotel/motel tax at no cost to the local taxpayer. This arts tax was created by the county primarily as a means of providing long range financial stability for Proctor's. The challenge grant, along with our annual contribution is estimated to total more than $600,000 over the next two years. This demonstrates not only the county's commitment to Proctor's Theater but also to the enhancement and promotion of Schenectady County, particularly the revitalization and ecomomic development of our city's Loose Cannons War of the Roses Enemies: A ·Love Story Stella The Little Mennaid Stanley and Iris ~evenge downtown. We consider Proctor's Theater a catalyst for activity in our county and in our downtown area. Proctor's represents the historical and cultural foundation of our community and Schenectady County is committed tQ strengthening this foundation. This comm itrnent signifies our ongoing focus on the revitalization of economic growth. The county, as the first tenant to commit to the Kossow Project, was a catalyst in moving the project forward. The county initiated and i's comrnited to the development ofa World Trade Center for our county. These county efforts are made in a spirit of municipal cooperation to assist our city and towns in the revitalization of our economy. I would like to commend my fellow legislators and the County Manager for their creativity and vision in moving this worthwhile effort forward. Charles Drago, Jr. Chairman, Schenectady County Legislature Night Breed Glory Madhouse Men Don't Leave Born on the 4th of July Driving Miss Daisy Hard to Kill Call Theaters for Show Times. ' Social Alternatives in the Capita:l District· Union College,- Tuesday, February 27 to Saturday, March 3, Nott Memorial The Mountebanks present Be.rtolt Brecht's \Threepenny Opera.\ Admission is $3 for students with ID, $4 for faculty and staf,f and $5 for the general public. For rese.rvations can 370~6153.. Sunday, February 25 .. Memorial Chapel The UnionCoUege chamber orchestra will presen1 its only concert at 3 pm for the 1989-1990 sesaon. Monday, February 26 lngmar Bergman's play, Jack Among the Actors, will be p;resented as a dramatic reading in the :College Center Auditorium. The text of Jack • is an English translation by Frank Gado, who is dir&cting the reading. The performance begins at 7:30. Albany- Friday, March 2 and Saturday; March 3, Palace Theatre George Lloyd, the composer and conductor of international fame, is returning to Albany to conduct the Albany symphony orchestra's last three concerts of the season. Both performances begin at 8 pill. Tickets range from $8 to $22 and can be re:served by calling 46.5-4663. Sunday, February 25, Empire State Perfor.ming Arts Center Steve Charney and Harry of WAMG's \Knock on Wood\ will appear with their ventriloquism, music and magic at 2 pm. Tickets are $5. He was their inspiration. He made their lives extraordinary. DEAD POETS SOCIETY Friday, February 23 to Sunday, February 25 DON'T GO TO BED- . • • UNLESS --- You've been tucked by a TDX. Last day to schedule tuck-in's is Friday trom 1 0 am - 3 pm It's the BEST YOU'LL EVER HAVE! TODAY & TOMORROW IN THE COLLEGE CENTER- DON'T FORGET! ORI.ENT AT ION ADVISORS Applications are now available for Orientation Advisors for the Class of 1994 Please pick up an application in the Dean of Students' Office College Center - Room 306 Deadlin,e for comp.leting the applications: Thursday. March 15. 1990 The Union College Philosophy Department is pleased to announce the following colloquium Promise as Practice: Another Look at Hume by William Vitek, O:l\arkson Univeristy March 2, 1990 - 3:45 P.M. in Human,ittes 213 There will be a ·reception Immediately following in the Humanitif)S Lounge. All colloquia are open 1o the public for 'further information telephone 518-370-6376.

CONCORDIENSJS, February 22, 1990 Page 15 .. ARTS & ENTERTAINMENT -· HOROS-COPES BY ''A\ Aquarius: This week all your hard work will pay off. The weekend will be a pleasant change from your stressful life in the library. Expect somethi.qg unexpected to happen Saturday night. , · The'· Union's ··Opera' at emorial Pisces: This is a week for passion. If involved, this weekend you will make a big step in your relationship, if uninvolved the weekend will provide fun withoutcommitrnell~. Aries: So you're Valentine's Day was not filled with roses and candy .. Don't get caught up in self-pity. Go out there and meet someone! You'U be surprised who is out there when you look in the right places. Taurus: As you know - yaur sign is the bull, and as we all know - yon specialize in dishing ito\lt. This week -work hard, itwill payoff. This weekend beopenminded, perhaps someone you .previously thought of only platC:lnically you will see in a new light. Gemini: Get in touch with your family this week - renew old ties .. It might just be what you need to take a br-eak .from the Union College scene. P~erhaps, romance awaits outside the Union gates .• \ --- Cancer: The coming· weekend will provide a much needed break from the hard work fo the past week. Both your grades and love life are on the upswing. It is time to stay in close contact with your family. Althougb you may he in college, you need them more than you realize. - Leo: This weekend do something productive like dean your room, or do your laundry .. Going out to parties will just be a disappointment and your brain ha~ no plan to concentrate on By DINA SCHWEITZER Arts Editor Mountebanks, the student drama group at Union College. will present Bertolt Brecht's 'Threepenny Op·era' this coming week in the Nott Memorial. _- This musical, directed by Ted Beck (president of the Schenectady Light Opera Company), is being produced on a tight budget of only $4.,000. These funds might seem to be sufficient, but most other productions done here at Union run a production cost of up to $7-8,000. Therefore, this limited budget doesn'~ make it easy for Mountebanks to supply quality costumes and backdrops .. Nevertheless, the show wiU go on. 'The Threepenny Opera' is a musical whose characters are colorful common people on the streets of London. The dialogue is farcical in the way it pokes fun at humanity, and the songs seemingly punch you in the stomach with cutting words. It is a bh,mtly humorous musical, and if you will, a black comedy about humanity. The play takes place in the \nows\ of yesterday, today, and tomorrow. It doesn't really have a time factor, for the play addresses the downtrodden parts of life that are always in existence,. such as poverty. This musical won't bring you down for it is not entirely unhappy. In fact, it is comedic in the way the ~haracters sexually exploit each other and get in trouble with the law. It is by no means a realistic attempt to confront such issues, but through exaggeration we come to understand the pHght of its protagonists. The 'Threepenny Opera' will run from February 27-March 3 in the Nott Memorial. Show times are at 8 p.m. every evening, with an additional special matinee performance on Saturday, March 3 at 1 p~m. Tickets are on sale now at the Nott Box Office, and admission is $3 for students with ID, $4 for faculty and staff, and $5 for the general public. For reservation, contact Mountebanks Theatre Box Office at 370-6153. , your work. At least the week is almost over. Virgo: Virgos are very fickle. This week take a second look at someone- who you know has interest in you. Why do you run away once someone shows interest in return? Just be careful not to hurt anyone':' Union College Chamber Orchestra Presents Libra: Libras tend to be very egocentric at times, but usually you are just hiding your insecurities. Be careful that you are not hurting someone with your actions. Expect a big blow to your ego in the near future. Scorpio: Find that you're letting your body go to waste? - do not worry for your sex life this week will put you back into tip-top shape. If you are involved with someone, expect a good, non-stop workout. If uninvolved, expect to meet a powerful partner of passion. Sagittarius: Why does commitment scare you so much? Loosen up and make this a week of passion. A :Pjsces may be involved in yonr escapades. Capricorn: Do something spontweous and wild this week. Break away from your usual schedule and do something memorable. If you involve someone of the opposite sex it .may prove additionally satisfying. Come one, come all-- the Union College Chamber Orchestra will present its only concert of the 1989-90 season this weekend. • The program promises to be a crowd pleaser, as it is full of exciting and demanding pieces. The performance will open with Mozart's Marriage of Figaro Overture, followed by several excerpts fro~ the opera. Features soloists will include Marlo Amendola, '92, as Suzanna, Jose Andrade, 'IN, as Figaro, David Martorano, '92, as Count, and ·Anna Patton, '92, as Countess. NUN SENSE Tells the story of 5 nuns who narrowly escape the fate of the rest of their order. All are accide1ttly poisoned by the chef, \Sister Julia, Child of God.\ 48 other sisters have been properly buried and since there-isn't enough money left jn the C()nVent coffers to finish the job, the remaining 4 nuns have been.stored in thefreezeruntUfunds can be raised to bury them. They stage a benefit to collect funds in order to defrost the nuns and bury them. Benefit programs include song .and dance. A heavenly play with lots of laughs. There are a few good seats left! Call SAO 6118 Sunday, Feb~ 25, 7 p.m. Proctors A pre--party Party this Saturday Night February 24th The Union College Concert Comn1i1tee presents the .band ''Minimum . Wage'' in the Caniegie Atrium at8:30p .. m. These guys do great covers from bands like the Rolling Stones~ tt\e Beatles .. REM, the Who and The Dead. Food and beverages will be supplied as welL so come out to Carnegie Sat. Nite for a Winterfestbdsh. The College Center Dramatic Reading Series Presents lngmar Berman's Jack Among the Actors Translated and directed by Frank Gado Monday, February 26 at 7:30 p.m. in the The College Center Auditorium Concert Master, David Lai, '91, will present the first movement of Kabalevsky's Violin Concerto Op. 48. This will be your last chance to hear David perform as next year he will leave to attend Albany Medical School, so take advantage of this wonderful opportunity. The program will conclude with Haydn's Symphony No. 99 in Eb major. The performance will be great, so take a study break and join us at 3 p.m. OR Sunday in Memorial Chapel. WWF SAVElHI WILDLIFE WORLD WILDLIFE FEDERATION 1----- '-:\'-------- I ··Cl1p-N -Save-;. I I I : rl· · ·ll \!9~~~~0. : 1 t 1 The WRUC New 8.97 1 I They Might Be Giants show what two I 1 dorks, a guitar, and an accordion can 1 1 do; do1ninate orir chart. Coming up 1 i though is ~ act called King M~ssile. I 1 1 can't say thetr complete album tltle, but 1 1 I can say \Mystical stuff- that's-brown- 1 1 and-comes-our-of-your-bottom.\ Thank 1 I you. I l Act 1 1. They Might Be Giants 2. The Creatures I· 3. The Fanners 4. The Fundamentals I· Disc _ Title Flood Bomerang The Flames of Love Feeling Strange Label Elektra Geffen Pravda P.O.S. I 6. Midnig)tt Oi112\ \Blue Sky Mine\ Columbia 7. The Gin Blossoms Dusted San Jacinto 1 . 8. The Jesus and Mary Chain Automatic Sine II 8.97 -- EveiJ: Band Has a Shonen Knife --Giant Eyebrow Ra1ser -- nsun Comes Up, It's Tuesday\ II Cowboy Junkies · I I Programming Notes -Trivia is 1 carrying my love child. ---------------- I I I I I I I I I I I



CONCORDIENSIS, February 22,_ 1990 Page 17

Page 18 CLUB NEWS NEWMAN CLUB ACTIVITIES Tuesday Night Supper · February 27th .at 5 p.m. - AU Union students are invited ,fi:O use meal card, go through· Upperclass Dining; bring tray to CC203 and join Sr. Joan and other students for supper and conversation. Topic: Wily Lent? Ash Wednesday Prayer Service - February 28th :at 4:30PM in Memorial Chapel there will be an Ecumenical Prayer Service and the Distribution of Ashes. Rev. Hugh Nevin and Sr. Joan will conduct the service and music will be provided by Hugh Allen WiJ:son, the Gospel Choir and the Newman Folk Group. Free Ziti Dinner • T h: e Rosary Society of St. John the Evangelist is putting on a Ziti Dinner, Saturday, March 3rd at 5 P.M. Any Union student who wishes to come as Sister Joan's guest just has to sign up in CC404 and your meal will be paid for. CONFIRMATION - Any Union student who has not been Confirmed may contact Sr. Joan at the College Center 404B. Classes in preparation for Bishop Hubbard's visit on June 3rd will be arranged with student schedules in mind and will begin first week of spring term. Folk Group - All singers and musicians interested in being part of the mus.ic ministry at the 7:30 p.rn. Sunday Mass please meet at 6:30 p.m. in the church to rehearse. The group welcomes anyone to join who regularly attends this Liturgy. Tutoring • Union College students needed to tutor at any one of three local elementary schools. Please contact She.ila Humiston 372-9231 or &ox 965. VISITING SHUT-INS • Any Union student who wishes to visit a shut-in on a regu.lar basis please contact Gerri Borne at 372-3381. VIDEO PROGRAM On Tuesday, February 27th at St. John's School Library from 7:30 to 8:30 p.m. all are welcome to attend a video program \A Way to God For Today\ By Anthony de Mello, S.J., author of many books on spirituality and until his untimely death in 1987, director of the Sadhana Institute of Pastoral Counseling near Poona, India. Par.t 2 will d.eal with Peace. Study Guides and discussion questions will be pr()vided. BIBLE STUDY/PRAYER GROUP On Tuesday, February nth from 8:45 to 9:30 p.m. at St. John's School Library tllere will be a continuation &f a study of the GOSPEL OF MA TiliEW. All are welcome. CONCOllDIENSIS, February 12, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS Money: Raise $1400 CLASSIFIE D S ' Cost:-Zero investment .· · . . • · Campus organizations, clubs, Beware of men in space sui-ts, squirrels & chipmunks. · frats, sororities call OCMC: 1- FOR RENt: 1706-08 Carrie 800-932-0528/ 1-800-950- St. (2)3 bedroom flats, '·. 3472, ext. 10. ABl, CN. KK & LM, Thanks appliances incl ud·ed, no ·I for helping me through the last utilities, no pets, femalC~ ~=========~ couple -of weeks. I really students only, 3 blocks from ··PER S 0 N A L S appreciate it, college, $390/montil. Avail- ' ---------- KA able March 1 for Spring · semester and/or all of 1990/91. · 875-6229 eves. Australia Study Abroad · · one or two semesters. Apply : now for summer or fall 1990. Paid internships available. For . information on the best semester abroad program in the world call800-245-2575. Spring Break 90 - break • for less!!! Montego Bay, Jamaica ... from $449 Negri], Jamaica ... from $469 Cancun, Mexico ... from $459 Daytona Beach, Florida ... from $159 Attention - Easy work,. excellent pay! Assemble products at home. Details (1) 602-838-8885 ext. W -7090. Attention: Earn money typing at home! $32,000/yr. income potential. Details (1) 602-838-8885 ext. T-7090. Great travel o·pportunity for Spring Break! Find fiv¢- people and go for FREE to either Nassau, Jamaica or Orlando! Call VACATION PREVIEWS for more inform at ion 5 18 - 3 9 3 - 1136/1236 or 800-333-1989. Offer expires 2/28/90. Restrictions apply. Attention ~ Hiring! Government jobs - your area. Many immediate openings without waiting list or test. $17,840 - $69,485. Call 1- 602-838-8885 Ext. R-7090. 1 · Attention - Government seized vehicles from $10. Fords, Mercedes, Corvettes, Chevys. Surplqs Buyers Guide. . 1-602-838-8885 Ext. A-7090. ··Attention - Government jbomes from $1 (U-repair). · Delinquent tax property. · Repossessions. Call 1-602- 83'8-8885 Ext. GH· 7090. I Attention: Earn money reading books! . $32,000/year income potenual. Details (1) 602-838-8885 Ext. Bk-7090. Jill - Thanks :for your \intervention\ Friday nite! (where was I?) Love, Mamie Mam- We better: have a great weekend. I think we both need one after last weekend. Happy hour Friday night! Ann Good luck Gina and Puck, we will miss you! You've been It's a bird, it's a plane, na~ ~ just Dennis Foley. Robin R, GJad you're my daughter. Hang tough, this week is almost over~ Kate SDT - Watch out for flying chairs and glasses at you.r formal! great captains. . JiH - don't laugh - next time . I'll probably hit him! Consta & Lista - So your secret admir~rs have made themselves known, now what? Lost - Brown leather bomber jacket at KA on Thursday, Feb. ' 1st. Great sentimental value. If found PLEASE call Kathy at 346-1068! BC&RR What's going on between you two now? Come on, let us all know- we are waiting- Grizz, Final score 13-12! Rematch this August? Mark Our season is over - celebrate! Beck- I love you - you are going out during the week. Kirk- Thanks for the flower - you too Ben! Ha:! Hal Kerry- I can see you! Pull that shade down! {or can't you?) M&A Ann -·cheer up!· It's almost the weekend! Loveya, Mamie trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, Wendy. What does equalitarian really mean! I need a formal date. Is Cec Available?? Big Brothers Big Sisters .Thank you to all who bowled or sponsor~d a bowler in the bowl for kids sake. A spectal thank you to Sigma Phj who secured the fraternity trophy by raising close to $10~. Remember pledges may be turned 1n to Terry at the CC Wednesdays between 3-5, . Rm. 204. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia .• trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia~ trivia. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, Ken&Andy KaffeeHaus, J.D. Tunes D.F.M. Kirk- Are you ever going to finish your thesis - maybe you will & maybe Mani & I will make . you dinner!· Laurel- I love your sweatshirts! BW~ Love, Steph Congrats. smart one! I'm so psyched for you! Les To Mamie and Alison, Thanks somuch for the formal - it was awesome! ~Gamma Phi Beta Michele- NO DOTS ARE AWESOME! ~us trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia,. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, Lame, Please stop quoting my comments on your infamous cal_~ndar. It's doing great MEANS Apartment for rent, iOSO University, June 15 - December 15. Room for 4 people, $800 a month. For details call x4421 or x4263. Spring Planning Committee Win a Hawaiian vacation or big screen TV plus raise up to $1400 in just 10 days!! Objective: fundraiser Commitment: minimal · College· Center Room408

PERSONALS damages to my repute for innocence:. Also, happy l)irthday to your pal, Mrs. G. I llope she will have a good life baking cookic:s and raising kids for Mr. ];G. ]t's a bird, It's a plane. No, it's ... it's JEITAMAN!! Love, KOH (And he 1 s in a station wagon, humph!) AT: Today's the big day! It's about tim¢, ten weeks is way too long!'! ! I missed youl - LM Rachel, Welcome back! Hope you~re feeling better. We missed you! Love,LB & JS YOU DON'T' BRING ME FLOWERS ANY MORE! (not that you e-ver <lid!) Wanda- Than :X fo:r putting in the time to make my life so fine. Now that I have a date, I will no longer hesitate, Our search is over - ~on've been great. I'd do it for you any time - any place. Luv,Rhonda Hey fag ... is that you? I can't see you with all those girls on your jock. Love, loser Your soft little shoes will now take you ~tray to a place that is far away. There are no palms, but you'll be mo:re calm. You no longer have to llide behffid the door, for now you em openly eat your own smores. Some have no fear cuz this cn-e is not so near. Love, Doreen & Sandy Gamma Fbi Pledges, Thanks! Love,. the sisters L- Whi.Ie you weren't he.-e the apt. didn't shake. let alone swing! I missed you. Love, J. Do ya waona dance and find romance? . Squeeze me; squeeze me, I'm your lovln' man. Oh baby do you wantla dance? -PLEASE- t trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia~ trivia. trivia, trivia, tri vi. a, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia •. trivia, trivia, trivia~ trivia. trivia, trivia, To tb.e Phelgm sisters, a birthday poem: Roses are red, grasses are green, :Pmallacies belong in bed, and.areoften obscene. Love,.KandL CONCOJ.cDIENSIS, February 22, 1990 P:Jge 19 CAMPUS NEWS, trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia · trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia · trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia Mark - only one week until you're fun again. -Beth Good luck at Buffalo, guys! Thanks for all your support! Love, \us\ 400 freestyle relay: \I think l'm gonna cry!\ I love you guys! NATIONALS-BOUND! -Amy To aU .the Freshmen Men- Jared, John,Billy, Hal. Jiin, ' Jason & newly found Adam - yet another personal. Union swimming and diving You guys are the ----s! 1990 State Champs! Awesome! Eek! It's ... chicken-in-need da \' h . . y ....•. o ... wait ... maJor time distortion ... go to Bath! To Claudiane Mapp Happy birthday! We love you. Angie, Kathy & Brian trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia . • Cha!os New Orleans - New Orleans - New Orleans - New Orleans - New Or1eans -Jamaica - New Orleans - New Orleans - New Orleans - New Orleans- New Orleans - New Orleans Delta Gamma Pledges- Yam we1e definitely classy at Pani:lel Cabaret! You're awe~ome and we love you! Love, Y <Our sisters of Delta Gamma trivia, trivia, trivia,. trivia trivia, .trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia Or~ so If ytl· dump your garbidge in my !>owl, I'm gonna mop your face. Yu brok my bart. Elva Christ()s, You: look great today as usual! Fonzie Rape Crisis Service of Schenectady Planned Parenthood HOTLINE 3·46~2266 Weekly Crossword \0 CANADA\ ACROSS 1 _ Scotia: Canadian Province 5 Fishing gr!)unds wit~ Grand 10 Sleeveless sweater 14 Munich mule 15 Snob 16 fllllows \POPS\: lea 011 a stick 11 Capital of Yukoa Territory 19 Precedes \ICE\:Cup 20 More level headed 21 Winnipeg's Province 23 Reckless 26 1 '_ Cop\: .movie 27 Broadway sign 311 Child's directions. 32 Price soloes 36 Nefarious 38 ______ Edward Island 3' Celebes ox 40 Donkeys ·42 Follows legion and million 43 Got some rays 45 Truck driver 47 Child's Doctor 46·Air.llne 49 .Draft board ai!l. 50 Gawk 52 Concordes '54 -·-. Islands 58 combining form meaning beater fi2 TV's Mr. Griffin By Gerry Frey 63: Canadian mountain range 65 Sea Eagle 67 VIcinities 611 Memo term: 2 wds 61 Black in Quebec City , 711 Slender graceful woman 11 Negatives in Nova Scotia DllWU 1 Ditectional acrr.nym 2 Fmd. safety agency 3 Bleod vessel II\' .Amend. 5 Bushel: Abreviatlon? · li Combining form meaning up 7 Clleer's patron ;a Cleveland's Bernie and 1amily 9 Pool member 1 0 City and University in British Columbia 11 N.arcissus piner t2 P:lece of marble 113 Seaport in Honduras 1 a ()bliterate 2~ ·steel beam :24 Expensive violin: l11formal 25 Snake sound 27 Petty quarrels 28 .Sleep over ~g Maine town 31 Remmint in Quebec City 33 JFK, FOR, lBJ,eg 34 Land_,mel!sures . :!5 Pro hets Ken - Thank you for our weekend away, I'll never forget it. What a way to celebrate . Feb. 14! I look forward to celebrating with you for years to come. Happy Valentine's Day, Sweetheart,. I love you! All my love, fotever, Lisa To my favorite singer of Donald Fagan on the Aegean - Great letter - Glad we're friends. - See you soon. trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia triv.ia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia. trivia Seed, I missed you Saturday/ night. I guess you were the one Step 286/12 80286 12MHz Processor 1MB Zero Wait State RAM with the bedroom eyes. Jen -Congratulations on getting a date, don't you think we should refc_ain from butt jokes. Fleiscll trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, triv.ia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia HeythereO! I'm so nervous for ya! But, I know you will make it because you're so cool. {not!) Gottago- one of my girlfriends is here ... just kidding . I'll visit soon. Love, C trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia 20MB Disk - 40MS Access Monochrome Monitor and Adapter 1 Serial/2 Parallel Ports 51/4\ 1.2MB.Floppy MS/DOS3.3 On Site Maintenance Optional386SX Upgrade \Ranks near the top when it comes to value per dol1ar\ .. PC Magazine $1,589 Wllh Valid Sdlool Picture Jl) CaD for Olbct cmllpuatlaao :n City in Britislt·Columbia 38 Pre I. college entrance exams 41 Morays 44 Heart exams 46 Morning in Quebec City 48 Tenfold 51 Song refrallls 53' Glossy fabrl~ 54 Dept. of Treasury invest!galOI'$ · 55 Cllampion SSI Software Solutions, Inc. Serrill§ lhe Caplt&l Dleatct Since 1971 26 Computer Drive li.ait,. Albuly, N'il22ai (518) 458·1860 56 Precelles \THOLOGY\: Bird 11m 57 Hamilton-Burr &Bnflict 59 Ms. Tor.ner 60 \Andw~at is so _as a day in J11ne\: James Russell Lcawell 61 Single ,bills 64 Have a ehat 65 Follows \THR\: Separate the grail1 ©1990 GFR Associates All Rights Reserved P.O. Box 9104, Schenectady~ N.Y. 12309 F()r answers, see page 14 2/90 !l ' ' .. ' .

Page. 20 ==~~======' \Outrageous!!! PERSONALS CONCORDIENSlS, .Pebrua1:y 12, 1990 CAMPUS NEWS To Robin, Bonnie, Sari, Wendy, Shari; Elanna: \Awesome!!!\ ' Cheri . I need an escort from ... · What, no gas?! c''\~\' -- o ' •• }'' Their A-· was grass And we were the lawnmower!! . trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia Hey guys . I love you! I missed you all tons this weekend, party & pong on Friday night. You guys are the · best! Love,Cece . HEY SWIMMERS: -W trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia, trivia, trivia, trivia trivia,. trivia,. trivia, triv•a trivia, trivia., .trivia, trivia CONCORDY CO~LLEGE CENTER SCHEDULE Friday~ February 23, 1990 2:00pm - CCAUD Engineer's Week Speaker: R. Magahiz, \Design & Construction'' 5:00pm- CCAtrium \Shoot Yourself' 7:30 & 10:00 pm ~ CAUD Film: Dead Poets Society 7:30pm- CC302 Coffeehouse Saturday, February 24, 1990 5:00pm- UCDH Culinary Expose' 7:30 & 10:00 pm- *SS016* Film: Dead Poets Society 8:00pm- CCAtrium Live Band: Minimum Wage Sunday, February 25, 1990 7:30 & 10:00 pm- CCAUD Film: Dead Poets Society Monday, February 26, 1990 7:30pm- CCAUD Dramatic Reading Series: Ingmar Bergman's Jack Among The Actors, in its English Language Pr:emiere. 7:00pm - CC406 Modem Language Films Tuesday, February 27, 1990 7:00pm CCAUD History Department Film Wednesday, February 28, 1990 6:30pm- CC410 Rape Counseling Training 7, 9, & 11 CCAUD FILM: TBA Thursday, March ·1, 1990 11 :30 am - *Memorial Chapel* Minerva Hour: David F. Billington, \the Historical Connections of Engineering to Art'' 8:00 pm CCA UD Philosophy Lecture If you would like your college Center Events listed in · this space, ple(;l.se contact the Office of The College Center at X6379. Please help keep your College Center clean by placing trash in the reaceptacles provided. This is . your building. DON'T DUMP ON IT!!! 'A WOMAJ.J I~ ON!}( A \\tlN1A~, ~UTA Ga>O CIGAR ... JS A NO-?l%T Gr!ZIP FOIZ V\JOMSN ... '' SHOE by JeH Mar:Nelly 'TU~G& A(2E A fA,.. N~TWORK tJEW7 f?P~/Ai., f2.E?-fbRI~. . . . Ehinna Who shall we kidnap next? Study break - Spring tenn. I miss you! -Wendy S&R Three more weeks till the beach. I can't wait. Caveman, K-Dorse. Barbil\ Shoulder Pop, Sha-Rone, Annatha, and Jeannus ... Congratulations NATIONAL pool ladies!!! S, B. R, C. S & C -W Let's get RRRRIPPED before we go CEC, Hi, you don't really know me, but would you go· with me to my fonnal? Duzan! Duzan! - She's our man, If she can't d(} it, no one can! Thanks for everything. Love, The Women's Swim Team Go Hard or Go Home -Speedo Chaos: 35? We want more. Bart RAINMANII Comifl:g soon to a theater near you. Nothing behind you matters. -Speedo To Deltas Abroad-· We miss you! Deltas at home Zak - I love you! Communication is key! Let's keep talking! Frank R, Love, Jigs So vielleicht spater bist du in ...... Mark CJN- What lovely soft skin you have! Rapper - We'll have to hang when your thesis is done. Good luck. Michele M.M.

+ When you-give blood you give anotherb~. American Red. Cross +1.-.. I t anou.1er anru.vers~ another laugh, another hug, another chance. Please gi\t:• blood; Bloodmobiles are being held at Old Chapel from 1 1:30 to 5;30 P:lil· .op, the following dates: Wednesday, February2l, 1990 Sponsor woup: Theta Delta Chi Contact person: Brendan Clifford 3 86-4105 · Thursday, February 22., 1990 Sponsor group: Psi Upsilon Contact person: Nick Baratoff 38 6.-4307 Friday, February 23, 1990 Sponsor group: Delta Ga:timla Contact person: Amy Joslin 386-4373 , BUY· YOUR 1990 YEAR BOOK NOW $30 cash or check CC408_ Pro-Choice Meetings EV:ERY MONDAY 5:30 ·pm in CC409 All faculty, students and staff are invited to join us for discussion and information session. Newcomers always welcome!! Also donors can stop by Room 4Q8, College Center to s~gn up for bloodmO'bi1es. ·· TENURABILITY COMMITTEE FORMED An ad hoc committee of tll.e Faculty Review Board has been formed to investigate and report on thetenur:abLlityo.fAssociate Professor WalterHatke of the Arts Department. Come to the CHUC room and take advantage of a cornucopia of computerpossibilites. Whether you are composing a resume, typing a paper, or struggling with y~ur thesis, CHUC Any member of the G olleg~ community who wishes to contribute to the committee's review ofHatke's teaching, scholarly activities. or college service may submit written testimony- by April9, 1990 to any of the following mernbers of the committee: professors Martha Huggins (Antll.ropology), chair; Martin Benjamin (Arts); Carl George (Biology.); Harry Marten (English). Interviews also may be arranged through Professor Huggins. is the, place to go. , / -----------TELECOMMUNICATIONS TIPS----------- '--oe:::;;o DID YOU KNO\V: CHUC is located in the basement of the Humanities building. .AJ.l students assigaed to a room.or suite will be held equally and financially responsible for ar;-y costs associated with a GOLLECT CALL or other mscellaneous charges ·made to or from the telep~one line ~ssociated with the dorm room during the perlod of thelr residency in that room. PURCHASING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF EA.STERN NEW YORK ANNOUNCES u•* SCHOLARSHIP A,WARDS **** To encourage college students interested in Business Administration and related fields to consider careers in the area of Purchasing, the PURCHASING MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION OF EASTERN NEW YORK will award~ scholarships in the amount of $1000.00 each for the 1990-91 academic year. Additionally; each award inCludes a qne-year dues-free membership in the Purchasing Management Association of Eastern New York, and the opportunity to attend, at no cost, all educational111eetings and seminars sponsoretl by the Association. ELIGIBILI1Y: To be eligible, the stildent must be presently completing the Sophomore year, on a full-time basis, at a toea! college or university, and be entering at the level of a Junior or abo\'e during the 1990-9·1 academic year. Sons or daughters of Association members are also encouraged to apply, regardless of c()llege or university attended. ' SELECTION CRITERIA: Awards are to be presented at the association's meeting on APRIL 19, 1990, Awards are intenr;led to be used for educational expenses during the 1990-91 academic year. The student and the school will be notified of the award decisions on or about APRIL 1, 1990. TO APPLY: To appl:yfor the award, the student should obtain an apfl'lication form from the office of the Department Chairperson, Pil'ector of Counseling Advisor or Director of Financial Aid or by contacting: .JA.NE S. CORZELNIK, DIRECTOR, BUSINESS SERVICES ffiiDSON VALLEY COMMUNITY COLLEGE 45 VANDENBURGH AVENUE TROY, NEW YORK 12180 (518) 270-1.5~ APPLICATIONS: Applications are due on or before MARCH 15, 1990. Applications must in dude: J:) COMPLETED STUDENT APPLICATION FORM. Z) COMPLETED FACULTY RECOMMENDATION, PROPERLY SIGNED AND SENT UNDER SEPAJlATE COVER. 3) OFFICIAL TRANSCRIPT OF GRADES FROM ALL COLLEGES OR ~RSITJES A'ITENDED; All parts of the applicati<>n should be mailed to Jane S. Oorzelnik at the above address. *Union has had 21Vinnets in the past. · . *This. awardds giyen only in this region. Informational meeting for anyone interested in working on the Freshman Record for the Class of 1994: When: . Tuesday, Feb .. 27, 1990 Where: SS1 04 When: 7 p.m. No experience is necessary, just lots of enthusiasm!! Work on the NEW RECORD will begin AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. If you cannot attend the meeting, but are interested, stop up at the Dean of Students' office, GC 306, and leave your name, phone number and box number. The Minority Affairs Committee presents: MULTI-CULTURAL DINING TABLE A table where all ethnic group~ can engage their differences in a process of mutual enrichment In Upperclass Dining Room Fridays 11:30-1:30 First Meeting ~Friday, March 2, 1990 Moderator: Edgar Letriz - Hispanic Heritage Co-Hosts: Twitty. J. Styles, Jobn Sowa, Geo·rge Smith and Rbbert Leung ·~ ..,. .. .

\' 'l <' Page 22 CONCORDIENSlS,_ February ]2, 1990 --- <nnnfllr 9irttsis SPORTS Alpine Ski Team Finishes Regular Season By Sp9rts Staff The Union College ski team finished its regular season carnivals last weekend at Toggenbur.g. The women's team capped off their regular season by capturing a bid to the Eastern Championships whHe the men finished their season with still tnore frustrations. The end eame early for the men at a meet two weeks age at Swain Mountain, just south of Rochester. The slalom proved to be very unlucky as only one man finished with two clean runs. Peter Cowles finished 26th overall as the long and rutted course took ,its toll on the field of seventy. Nearly thirty skiers were unable to finish. Overall, the men ended up 12th. The women were able to capture a solid 5th place as Allison Pallotta finished lOth, Beth Foley 13th,and Betsy Mitchell 18th. Sunday's giant slalom started well for the men. Union had two finishers in the top ten after the first run: J em Solling·er in lOth and Sean Livingston in 3rd. Livingston fell during his second run however, leaving the men to finish 12th despite Sollinger's ninth place finish. The women finished fifth once again, behind Pallotta in 8th, Foley in 19th, aod Julie Jamieson in 22nd. This strong weekend more or less assured the girls of a bid to Eastems. Last weekend at Toggenberg was more of the same for the men's team. With only four skiers in the line up, Union finished only one skier in the slalom. Steve Rowe turned in his best perfo1mance Df the year with a 12tll place finish. The men ended up in 11th place overall. The women took their traditional spot in fifth place as Beth Foley cracked the top ten with a 9th place finish. Amy Kraeger followed in 14th, and Jamieson pulled in the 18th. Sunday's giant slalom gave the men a rare bright moment as Jem Sollinger finished his rookie season with a 7th place finish. The men finished ninth, capping off a season full of disappointments. The women took fifth behind Pallotta's blazing seventh place finish. Beth Foley finished 18th and Julie Jamieson, in her first season of racing ever, took 21st to insure the women's bid to Eastems. This season was full of ups and downs for the men's team but the women performed consistently the whole season through. The women continue their season this week as they head to Waterville Valley to take on the best teams from the east. The Union women will be joined by fiver other teams from their league at Waterville: Clarkson, Syracuse, Colgate, Buffalo, and Alfred. Next year hopes to be full of promise as only one skier is graduating and the young team will have another year of experience under its belt. But for now, the best of luck at Waterville! Nordic Ski Team ••• Continued from page 23 a mere l 7 seconds behind Yale's leading man. Will Shields placed 25th and Willie Stevenson.; skiing his first 15k race placed ahead of several commpetitors. Susan Kersch came in 7th for the women. Kate Damena nd Kim Clarke, skiing in their first college races ever, finished a respectable 14th and 15th, respectively, and skied past several men. In Old Forge, NY, Union had a spectacular outing in this traditional skiing race. Most notably, Steve Listzwan won Union its first medal of the year. He skied into third place, missing second place by only 4 seconds. For the women, Susan Kersch placed 4th. missing the bronze by a mere 21 seconds. The team is now looking forward to the traditional race at Syracuse. - This past weekend, Union's Nordic Team competed at the Olympic mountain, Mt. VanHolenberg in Lake Placid. On interesting snow conditions Will Shields placed in the high 20s and Steve Listzwan in the high teens. Kim Clark, skiing for Union's women 1 moved up a place to finish 14th and Susan Kersch came in 8th. All Union students are welcome at any of the meets. If you are interested in racing (no experience needed) or would just like to do some touring skiing, call X6830. Although it's not high profile, the Nordic Ski Team is definitely one to watch. Do· You· Want VISA & MasterCard . Cret;llt Carda? STUDENT SEA:VICES P 0 BOX 2241l26 t10~L YWOOO. FL 33022 l . I Nnw ~ou -'1\ ..,,~_.,·.,...not '\e ml)<;! rpc,oqn•Hd an ar.r..eptedcr~?rhl \:-:t'~f I ca•d<J•~'~ thP. ., 0 ,•11 '\f1oi)A• andMast9rCarcf' <;reorJ•t r:ards \•nynur I I ··~· t want \IISA•/U'astf!'rCard\ 1 name EVEI't •r 'f0U ARE NEW I~ CI=IEOIT or HAVE BEEN I credit ~ard!a. Enel~led hnd $15()() JNhiCh 15 ~ TURNED OCW~· 8EF'OR£1 I 1 O{)Oib refundable •f nol aoproved •n'tmedi8tety .,., I ~r .. v's.a.• tJnd MtUiftrCII~ lh& cntdlt carrts I 1 , \'*~• e' you 1,.!el'\t.,andtHIJGdlor * 10• BOOKS J -------~-------- -- ,.!>' 0 o- -r:i' • DEPARTMENT sTOREs • rUina~>~ 1 \'AME 1 0 \' <\ l>e~ * E~TE~TAINMENT *EMERGENCY CASH I .. ,... ,, .. TICKETS .. R~STAUR~\'TS I ---- 0 ~·· •HOTEtS•OAS•CARRENTALSI ------------ I .. ,.d- *REPAIRS+ AND TO BUILD ADDRESS I ,..o ' YOUR CREDIT RAT•NGO I , I I STATE ZIP I CITY 'CI,IARANJ'EEDI I GOLD CARD ---- 1 liiSl/MAS:rERCARD I ~HONE. I GUARANTEED ISSUE : I OA MONEY BACK 1 ----~----- ' 1 soc. secu RITV • I I -PI>•oval a~solutoly I 1 ouarantjf!l&d·,o~urry 1111 t . -------· -·----- -- out this curd lodav l SIGNATURE , I Vour etedll cord; are wa•1•1\1tj I !JI$i:U j:l•i.IH:«Of•lWLX•i:li-I•PJJ I L..., - -------- -,- Men's Track Tea!m Gears Up For States By GREG BARn'ETT This past Saturday and Sunday, the Men's Track team competed in the OoUegiate Track Conferences (CTC's) at the University of Southern Connecticut. They placed very well coming in 11th with 18 points. This meet, well known for its disorganization, saw some of the best mnners in New York State competing for precious spots in both the State and the National meets. The competition, as a result, is very fierce. Co-Captain Chip Silver said, \The competition was definitely there, probably even more so than at States. This meet should give the team an added incentive to work harder over the next two weeks in order to be ready for the :State Meet.\ Silver placed first in the pentathalon and ran an s_ss in the 55m hurdles. Juni0I' Art Broga took fourth in the triple jump dearing 43 feet 5 1/4 inches. He later leaped 21 feet 6 3/4 inches capturing 5th in_ the long jump. Rounding out the field events, Keith Rcy·nolds heaved the shot 36' 1/2\ and Shawn Mowry t()sscd the 35 lb. weight 38' 6 1/2'' for fifth place. In addition, the distance team -performed welL Doug Mu.:tocci finished the 1 OOOm in 2:50.52. Bob Lindyberg battlee:lt:hrough the 800m in 2:04. 87. Finishing up the endutance events, Adam Reisman ad.ded a 19:11.6 time to his 5000m marks. The Sprinters also had an impressive 'day wilh 400 men; Will Allen and Rich Zembek ru\xil:ning 53.62 and 55.t54 resf'cctivcly. In \the 55m dash, Matt Decker dug his way to a 6. 73s finish. Bill Taylor followed closely with a 6Jl2s finish, Decker and TaylQr later ·scorched their way through the 200m in 23.98s and 23.83s. The grand finale of the evening (as always) was the 4 x 400m relay. Lindyberg, Silver. Taylor and Alien dropped several seconds off of their previous time crossing the line in 3:35.32. Over the next two weeks. the track tearn will be hard at work preparing for the State Meet. It will be held at Hamilton on March 2!ld and3rd. CA.TAPULT INTO THE FUTURE \ Jet engines roar as t11e ll1rottJe is pushed to full power, the catapult oflicer si[il<tls the go-ahead and you're suddenly accelerated from a standing st.IFt to over a hundred miles an hour. In a matter of seconds you're flying. That's naval aviation. There's nothin~ else like it anywhere. For a Navy pilot or flight olTicer, it's all in a day's work. Both are challenging jobs that deliver tl1e kind of training. responsibility and expetience you'll need to make }O.Ir c1recr really take off. You'll be a well-paid member of a highly professional team, eaming special aJiowances ;1nd ex=:eptional benefiL~. To qualify, you must he a U.S. citilcn be.twe6'n 19 and 26, have a BA or BS degree, and pass an aptitude test and physictl examination. And you must have th;1t something special. See if you h;n·c it. Call: 1-800-444-7134 NAVY OFFICER You. are Tomorrow. You are the Navy. Sign up now , for ~ TRl-DELTA'S 2nd Annual JAIL AND BAIL TO,DAY!! in the College Ce:nter Pit ... from 9:30- 4:30 Arrest . your friends/ roommates for $3;00 -Or/ want to get your professors back? Arrest •em for only $5.00 *All long distance phone calls are FREE! I! proceeds go. to the American Cancer Society

()ONCORDIENSlS, February 22, 1990 Page 23 SPORTS Marc Goguen S'c,ores 5 ·Goals and Adds 5 Assists in Last 3 Games By- MARK ZIMMERMAN Sports Edito!' . With ten points in the last three games including a hat trick on Saturday, Mar~ Goguen is the Athlete ·Of the Week. In Union''s 10-3 victory over Oswego, Goguen had four points, all assists. Over the weekend, ia Union's 8-2 defeat of Canisius, Marc again had the hot hand as he scored two goals and had one assist in the D11tchmen victory. In most instances this in itself would be a highly productive week for a player. However, Goguen was just beginning. As Union skated off the ice at the end of a 6-3 victory over St. Anslem's, Goguen had three more goals under his belt, and had moved into a tie for thil:d place on the team's scoring chart with 24 points. In his last six games, he has had 15 points. Marc has been a member of the varsity team since his f['eshman season. During his mokie season he had 15 points (6 goals and 9 assists). Since then he has improved very year. He had 17 and 21 points in his sophomore and junior seasons, respectively, and is aJready having his. best season e-ver this year. Coach Delventhal, when speaking abo~.t Marc, commented 'on the success of · the entire line on which Marc · plays, and noted that Marc has been a key to that. The line of Goguen, Gould ;and Railton has had 15 goals and23 assists (38 points) in the last six games of which Union has won .five. Delventhal was· also quick to point out Marc's outstanding special teams play. He plays on both the powerplay and shorthanded teams. Marc has been playhtg wetl all year, and it was simply a matter of time before he began to score the amount of goals he has in the last three games. From his \Freshman Male Athlete of the Year\ award three years. ago to his latest point-scoring rampage, Goguen has always ,been a tremendous asset to the Skating Dutchmen. Nordic Ski Team Commands Respect By SPORTS STAFF Cross Country Skiing is ranked by many physicians as the most aerobically demanding sport in the world. Yet, unfortunately, this intense sport is not a high profile one. Few Union students are aware that men's and women's teams exist and are highly competitive here at Union. Although most of the team's skiers had absolutley no experience prior to college, ********* SPRI!NG TRAINING ·is still not • com1ng to a ball park near you! ******** .~ommitment, hard work and a lbt of enthusiasm have piloted tile team into the top 10 in the NCSA Division II. uphills, this was a race which challenged even the experts. As Cra:ftsberry is the playground of world cup and Olympic skiers there were many experts present. Yet, team members placed well within their respective age categories. Earlier this year, the Nordic ream spent a weekend at Craftsberry Ski Center for s orne pre-season training. Because of Schenectady's warm a:ndrainy weather, this was the first opportunity to get some q_ uality snow time. The team aJso participated in the Craftsberry Opener race. With 1 0 kilometers of serious In the V:ermont Tech race, skiers again faced a severe course. Th.e Jop Union skier, Steve Listzwan sided into 17th place and renewed a 3-year rivalry with Yale by finishing Continued on 'Page 22 .I The 1980 United States Gold Medal Olympic Hockey Team Coach Herb Brooks Goalies Age Wha.t he _ _!s doing now .. 52 SportsChannel analyst,. St. Paul Jim Craig 32 Steve Janaszak 33 Defensemen Bill Baker 33 Dave Christian 30 Ken Morrow 33 Jack O;Callahan 32 Mike Ramsey 30 Bob Suter 32 Forwards Neal Broten 30 Steve Christoff 32 Sells advertising for V alsassis Inserts Bond Salesman, Bear, Steams and Co. Dental School at U. of Minnesota Right Wing for Boston Bruins Asst. coach, Asst. Dir. of Operations with Flint Spirits of International Hockey League Independent Stockbroker Defenseman for Buffalo Sabres Owns sporting goods store, Madison, Wis. Center for Minnesota North Stars Pilot for Mesabi Airlines, · a Northwest airlink :Mike Eruzione 35 Motivational speaker and TV John Harrington 32 Mark Johnson 32 Rob McLanahan 32 Mark Pavelich 31 Buzz Schneider 35 QaveSitk 32 Eric Strobel 31 Phil v ercllota 33 MarkWens 32 analyst Asst. coach, Denver University Center for New Jersey Devils Sales broker, Bear, Stearns and C<? Fisherman and hunter, Lutsen, Minn. Sales. Rep. for Western Temp. Svc. Playing hockey in West Germany Restores equipment for A.T. & T. Commercial banker. Edina, Minn. Restaurant manager, Rochester Hills, Minn. · Source: New YorkTim•e•s 1 _ ••••• ••••• Mouthing Off A \Miracle'' Remembered By ANDY BRAVER Sports Editor Upsets come and upsets go. Sometimes we can remember the unlikely victor .• while on . other occasions we can recall the loser. Most .of the time, however, the event passes through our minds into the world of forgotten memories. But not this miracle. It has lasted to this day, and it will last until another unfathomable victory makes this one look like an everyday occurrence. Ten years ago today, February 22, 1980. Just about everybody can remember where they were that evening. They might not be able to recall the final score, 4-3, or the name of the team captain who scored the winning goal with about 10 minutes remaining in the third period, Mike Eruzione. Most people don't even realize that the Americans had to defeat Finland two days later to win the gold medal (USA scored three third :period goals en route to a 4-2 victory and the gold). :But these things don't matter to most people. All that they want to remember is what happened-- the United States Olympic Hockey Team defeated the Soviet Uni?n in the .greatest upset ever on 1ce. There were 21 men in the country who believed that this victory was possible, coach Herb :Brooks and his band of overachieving college skaters. The rest of the country h0ped for a miracle that they n~ver believed they would receive. A victory seemed to be an unattainable goal because of past history. The young and inexperienced Americans were playing against the Soviet juggernaut, the hockey powerhouse who for years had dominated Canada's national pastime at all levels of competition. The year before the games, the Soviet Red Army Team (which for the most part is the team that represents the country. in ~1 international and champiOnship competitions) defeated a team of NHL stars, two games to one. In winning the rubber game of th~ 'Challenge Cup', 6-0, the Soviets proved that they could beat the best that the West could offer. llow could a group of unseasoned American college players beat a team whic? was without a doubt the best m the world (and which. went on to win gold medals in the 1984 and 1988 Games)? Only a week before the games began, the Americans were trounced, 10-3, in an exhibition game against the Soviets. So what changed in those two weeks? How did they do it? No one knows for sure, but all that really malters is that they did it! So much has changed in the past decade, both in hockey and in Soviet-American relations. At the time, it would have seemed ludicrous to think that Soviet athletes, and even American athletes, would hold major roles in the Canadian- dominated National Hockey League. But today, four members of the Soviet team which won the SILVER medal in 1980 are playing in the NHL: Helmut Balderis for the Minnesota North Stars, Sergei Makarov for the Calgary Flames, and Vyacheslav Fetisov and Aleksei K.asatonov for the New Jersey Devils. Six other Soviets are playing in the league as well. The National Hockey Lague today is a very different league than it has been in the past. In 1970, 95% of the players were Canadians while only 2% were born in America. At the start of this past season, 16% of the league's players were from the United States, 72% from Canada, and 12% from other nations. But these 86 American players are not just cast in supporting roles. Last season, Chris Chelios, a member of the 1984 Olympic team and now a co-captain of the Montreal Canadiens, won the Norris Trophy as the league's top defenseman. The New York Islanders' Pat LaFontaine, also a member of the 1984 Olympic team, currently stands fifth in the league in scoring. And · then there are Dave Christian of the Boston Bruins, Mark Johnson of the Devils, Neal Broten of the North Stars, and Mike Ramsey of the Buffalo Sabres.These four are the remaining players from the 'Miracle on Ice' who are still playing in the NHL. Actually, a dozen players from the 1980 squad went on to test their skills, with varying success. in theNHL. But they have not forgotten that blistery Friday evening in the small New York town of Lake Placid, which was, after t)leir incredible victory, anything but placid. And neither has the American public. Today, each and every time I see the replay of the final seconds ticking off of the clock and listen to ABC's commentator Al Michaels ask that famous question, \Do you believe in miracles?\ two things happen: first, I begin shivering, and then I answer the question with a resounding \YES!\

0 b :c c.. UJ _.J u: 0 ~ Cl. w ::::! .u. The track team is back to hard work as it gears up for States. Union is flying high after winning. 6 of their la$t 7 ·games. The team is now 15·7·3. \ Women's Swim Team Tops State By JAlMIE LIPSHER As you may have noticed, the campus seemed a little empty this past weekend. That's because the 24 girls who make up the Union women's swim team left Schenectady on Valentine's Day and-travelled to Hamilto11 for the State meet. It was there that Cupid shot his arrow of power through each of their heart'>. A total of 19 teams were present at the meet and Union topped them all with a final team score of 795 points. Going in~o the final 400 yard freestyle relay, Union and Ithaca were tied with a score of 755. In a great finish, Union was able to stroke to the top, leaving Ithaca in their wake with a final score of 789. According to captain Kathy Kavaney, it was \real exciting ... it came down to that last event, that last relay. We knew w.c had to beat Ithaca to win and we were so tired; but it's at tl1ese times you really find ou.t how much strength, endurance, and adrenalin you actually have. And what was so great was that not only did we pull it off and win the relay but we qualified for nationals;too!\ To prove just how good Union's women swimmers really arc, the final scores of the top 10 teams arc as follows: 1. Union - 795 2. Ithaca - 789 3. Hartwick - 516 4. Hamilton- 513 5. William Smith- 412 6. Vassar - 279 7. Albany- 220 8. RPI - 193.5 9. RIT- 175.5 10. St. Lawrence - 135 Over the course of the four- day meet, there were several incredible swims. However, freshman Sharon Gatt outshined them all. She was voted by all the coaches present at the meet the \Most Outstanding Swimmer\. In addition to being part of the winning relays, Sharon won four individual events. She set a meet record in the 200 yard butterly with a time of 2:11:85 and set school records in the 100, 200, and 500 yard freestyles and the 200 yard butterfly. Kathy Kavaney once again defended her 100 yard butterfly title that she set last year with a new time of 1:01:02. Kathy also participated on two of the winning relays as did Ann Glicksman and Jeanne Cutrone. Amy O'Neill swam fantastically and helped lead her teammates to victory in three of the relays. As noted by Coach Bassett, \The key to the meet was the relays; Union won four out of a possible five. But it wasn't just taking first place in the relays that helped us win, we also scored lots of people in the 2nd through 16th positions. That's what really made the difference:· Overall, Union will be sending a total of seven girls to the National swim meet this year, a three-person improvement from last year. The list includes: Kathy Kavaney, Sharon Gatt, Ann Glicksman, Kcrstin Dorse, Jen Joyce, Amy O'Neill,and Jeanne Cutrone .. According to Coach Bassett, \The team came together and held together for three tough days, but when it came down to the end-- and I knew they were really tired-- it was nice to see that they didn't back down. They deserve a lot of credit; rm very proud of the whole team.\ The Nationals will be held at Williams College in Massachusetts from March 8th through the 11th. Come watch and supiJort the team! It should also be mentioned that Lhe Un.ion Men's swim team had. their 'first winning season since 1969, finishing with a record of 6 wins and 4 losses. The men's States this year are in Buffalo on Thursday, February 22 through Saturday, the 25th. GOOD LUCK! February 22, 1990 Skating Dutchmen Hold Off Late R By Panthers By ANDREW SEEWALD · Editor-In-Chief Union combined outstanding goaltending, opportunism, ancl resiliency to defeat Midlebury, 6-5, Tuesday night at Achilles Rink. The victory was the fourth straight for the Dutchmen, and their sixth win in the last seven games. The goaltending was provided by Ron Kinghorn, who made 35 saves to pick up his 14th win of the season. It was als() his 47th career victory, tying him with Wayne McDougall ('86) for .the all- time Union record. Kinghorn was especially tough in the first two periods, when Middlebury controlled · play for long stretches, only to be foiled by the Dutchmen netminder. \He played brilliantly,\ remarked Bmce Delventhal, head coach of the Dutchmen. Kinghorn was not sure if this was his best game · of the season, but he did know it had to be considered right up there. Terry Campbelll and Dan Gould provide.d the opportunism. Union was trailing, 1-0. in the first period when Terry Campbell stripped the puck from Middlebllry forward Torn Lambert just . inside the Panther blue line. Campbelll skated untouched oo the net and froze goaltender Brent Truchon. He then deposited the puck into the top left corner of the net for his fifth goal of the season at 12:18. Slightly more than three minutes later, Union was handed another gift, and again · took advantage. The Dutchmen were shorthanded and Gould was in deep forechecking. ·The Middlebury defensemen were foolishly passing the puck back and forth right in front of their own goal. When G<>uld saw one of these passes being . delivered. he pounced. He intercepted right between the face-off circles in front of Truchon. He: shot quickly into the top rigllt comer, and Unic.>n had scored a snort-handed goal for the third consecutive game. It was Gould's 5th score of the year. \I never try to shoot high,\ explained Gould, who is third nn the team with his 26 points. \But the puck was just standing perfectly in the right spot to shoot.\ The second petiod was more or less even, and was fast- paced. Guy Logan had the only two goals of the period. The first was on the rebound of a Mike Flanagan shot and the second was on a blistering slap-shot from the right point. Now, with 65 career goals. Logan has tied Tod Fobare ('83) for second on the all-time Union goal list. And so the Dutchmen were up 4-1, but when Greg Steele was off on a holding penalty to start the third period, things would really get exciting. Jim Quin scoreed at 1 :02 of the third t6 make it 4-2. .. \They get a power-play goal early, that's where the momentum changes,\ said Delventhal. Quin scored again 60 .seconds later, and when Marc Alcindor scored at 6:26 otf the power- play, Middlebury had pulled even. \I didn't think they really bad the momentum,\ said Gould. \Everything they put toward the net just went in for a while. They just got the bounce of the puck. I never really felt like they had us.\ Later; though, Qould did concede some credit to the Panthers, who fell to 18-4-1 with their first road loss of the season. \Teams that arc in the top 10 don't roll over and die,\ he said. \Teams that are .500 are the ones that quit. That's what puts them up there.\ Well, now that you bring it up, let's talk about rcsiliC£lCY. Craig Ferrero was not enjoying one of his better games. That is, at least, until his team needed him most. Gould took a Jlass from Bill Railton and came in on what amounted to a two-on-one- break in close. Truchon made the save on Gould's shot, but he kicked the rebound right to Ferrero who cotdially flippecl it into the open net. \Danny and I made eye contact as soon as we came in with the puck,\ said Ferrero. \I knew he was gong to shoot the puck (to the far side), and so I went to the spot where I knew the rebound was going to be. and then it came.\ At 15.:59, 2:01later, Ferrero scored again, this time set up by Dalton Menhall. Menhall and Bill Sedergren went after a loose puck in the corner., but rather than both going to the same spot, Sedergren took out the Middlebury defender, freeing the puck for Menhall. Dalton si>otted Ferrero all alone in front, and no sooner was tile puck on Ferrero's stick than it was in the net. Ferrero now has 13 goals to the season, second on the team. Neil Sinclair scored for the Panthers with 4:24 remaining, but the Dutchmen, bolstered by Kinghorn's goaltending, held on for the victory. Union hosts North Adams tomorrow night at Achilles Rink, a 7:30 start. The Dutchmen wHl attempt to avenge a 9-4 loss to the Mohawks on January 9. The ECAC playoffs begin this coming Tuesday, with final seeding yet to be determined. The most probable opponent for the Putchmen is Geneseo, but it is hard to predict whether the game would be here or there, or perhaps somewhere else, against a d iffcrent opponent. SUPPORT UNION SPORTS

